^ 



V/ 



37t» Congress, 
3d Session. 



SENATE. 



Mis. Doc. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF 
THE INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1862. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
1 863. 



In the Senate of the United States, February 28, 1863. 

Resolved, That five thousand additional copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion for 18G2 be printed — two thousand for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, and 
three thousand for the use of the Senate; Provided, That the aggregate number of pages 
contained iu said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, without wood-cuts or p'ates, 
except those furnished by the Institution; and that the Superintendent of the Public 
Printing be authorized, if consistent with the public service, to allow the Smithsonian 
Institution to stereotype the report at its own expense, or to otherwise print at its own 
expense such additional copies as may be desired from the type set in the Government 
Printing Establishment. 



LETTER 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

ANNUAL EEPOET OF THE BOAED OF REGENTS. 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Wasldngton^ February 19, 1863. 
Sir : In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to sub- 
mit to the House of Representatives of the United States the annual 
report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for the year 18G2. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
. Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, 

Vice President of the United States and President of the Senate. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTI- 
TUTION UP TO JANUARY, 1863, AND THE PROCEEDINGS 
OF THE BOARD UP TO FEBRUARY, 1863. 



To the Senate and House of Eepreserdatlves : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 184G, establish- 
ing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the 
Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents: 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1862. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 1862. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to February 4, 1863. 

4. Appendix. 
Respectfully submitted. 

R. B. TANEY, Chancellor, 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ABEAHxVM LINCOLN, Ez officio Presiding Officer of tlie Institution. 
EOGER B. TANEY, Cliancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENKY, Secretary of the Institution. 
SPENCER F. BAfRD, Assistant Secretary. 
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

A. D. BACHE, ^ 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, j. Executive Committee. 

R. WALLACH. . 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION 



H. HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

R. WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington. 

W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States. 

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States. 

GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States. 

S. COLFAX, member of the House of Representatives. 

E. McPHERSON, member of the House of Representatives. 

S. S. COX, member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York.' 

W. L. DAYTON, citizen of New Jersey. 

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington. 

LOUIS AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States. 

HANNIBAL HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United Statea 

W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. 

S. P. CHASE, Secretary of the Treasury. 

E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War. 

G. WELLES, Secretary of tlie Navy. 

M. BLAIR, Postmaster GeneraL 

E. BATES, Attorney General. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

D. P. HOLLO WAY, Commissioner of Patents. 

RICHARD WALLACH^ Mayor of the City of Washington. 



nONORARY MEMBERS 



BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut. 

A. B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi. 

CALEB B. SMITH, Secretary of the Interior, {ex officio.) 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPfED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



INTRODUCTION. 



General considerations ivJiich should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out tlie design of the 
testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to 
difluse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus in- 
creased, among men. 

G. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should 
be such as to enable the institution to produce results, in the way of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either 
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi- 
sionally; can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or 
be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 
a considerable portion of the interest wdiich has accrued should be 
added to the principal. 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledf:;e to be cultivated, 
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the 
construction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the |)lan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be ben- 
efited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expendi- 
ture on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of 
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. Tliese are, a library, 
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to 
contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance tuifh the foregoing 
deductions from the luill of SmitJison. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer- 
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge; and 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 
I. — B?j stimulating researclies. 

1. Facilities to be afforded for the production of original memoirs 
on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a scries of vol- 
umes, in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. 

3. _ No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for 
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human 
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula- 
tions to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputution for learning in 



PROGKAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 'd 

tlie branch to wliicli the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for pub- 
lication only in case the report of this commission be favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, 
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless 
a favorable decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac- 
tions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all 
the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the 
remaining copies may be oflered for sale; and the other carefully pre- 
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand 
from new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these me- 
moirs to be given to the public through the annual report of the 
Regents to Congress. 

II. — Lj/ approjiviathig apart of the income. annvaVy, to special ohjccts 
of research, lender the direction of suitcdjle persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, 
in course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. Tlie results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithso- 
nian Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 

problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, 
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the 
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina- 
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and 
of light; chemical analyses of sods and plants ; collection and publi- 
cation of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of governmenfe. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(G.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- 
ferent races of men in North America ; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of 
our country. 

DETAILS OF THE TLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By 'the puUication of a series of reports^ giving an account of the neio 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
branches of knoidedge not strictly professioncd. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally inter- 
esting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as 
the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of 
knowledge may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publi- 
cations, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his 
report ; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on 
the title-page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons 
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it 
•without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri- 
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific in- 
stitutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in 
the reports : 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, 
and meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to art. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

G. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. — Bij the puUication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a CQmmissIon 
of competent judges previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of 



PKOGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in 
the table of reports. 

SECTION 11. 

Plan of organization^ in accordance iv'ilh the terms of tJie resolutions of 
the Board of llegents providing for the two modes of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated 
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme 
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of 
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, first, of a complete collection of * lie transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the w rid ; second, of the more 
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary 
in preparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

G. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of 
experimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for roudering the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary 
to purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex- 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

^- The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the 

United States is $515,109 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the build- 
in-) 242.129 00 

Annual income from the bequest _ 30/JlO 14 



12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be- 
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except 
one, to act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, 
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and 
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, 
employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited 
to give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



Tliis programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has 
become the settled policy of the Institution. The only material 
change is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted Jan- 
uary 15, 1855, viz : 

Hesolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, 
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in- 
come between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, 
be necessary nnd proper for each, according to its intrinsic import- 
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



To the Board of Bcgents : 

Gentlemen : I have the honor again, at the commencement of your 
annual session, to present the report for another year of the opera- 
tions of the Institution intrusted by the General Government of the 
United States to your special care. 

So much public attention has been absorbed during the last year 
by the exciting events of the war that we might at first suppose 
that little or no thought could be bestowed upon purely scientific 
subjects, such as fall within the province of this Institution to culti- 
vate, or indeed upon any kind of knowledge which has not an im- 
mediate bearing on the special requirements of the times. But even 
in the most sanguinary and gigantic warfare the responsibility for 
the important plans which are to determine the result of the conflict 
devolves upon the few, and leaves the many to fall into a condition 
of comparative mental inactivity. 

As a relief from the tedium of this condition, or a prevention from 
falling into it, a large number of subordinate officers, and even pri- 
vates, of the army have devoted themselves to pursuits connected 
with natural history, or to the solution of problems of a theoretical 
or practical character. 

Although the immediate object of war is the destruction of life 
and property, yet a state of modern warfare is not a condition of 
evil unmingled with good. Independent of the political results 
which may flow from it, scientific truths are frequently developed 
during its existence of much theoretical as well as of practical im- 
portance. The art of destroying life, as well as that of preserving it, 
calls for the application of scientific principles, and the institution ot 
scientific experiments on a scale of magnitude which would never be 
attempted in time of peace. New investigations as to the strength 
of materials, the laws of projectiles, the resistance of fluids, the ap- 
plications of electricity, light, heat, and chemical action, as well as of 
aerostation, are all required. 

The collection of immense armies of individuals of different ages 



14 EEPOET OF THE SECEETARY. 

and nations affords the means of obtaining data of mucli interest to 
the ethnologist, while the facts which are gathered from the unusual 
experience of the battle-field and hospital afford materials for the 
advance of physiology, surgery, and medicine, which a centur}" of 
ordinary observation would fail to furnish. 

In illustration of what has been done in the line we have mentioned, 
I would refer to the extended labors of the Sanitary Commission and 
of the department under the direction of the Surgeon General. 
The one, besides aiding in the improvement of the health and com- 
fort of the soldiers, has collected a large number of interesting facts 
relative to the moral and economical condition of the army; while the 
other, in addition to its immense labors in the care of the sick and the 
wounded, has recorded the statistics of every part of its varied 
operations, and formed a collection of illustrations of surgical anatomy 
which is perhaps unrivalled in any part of the world. 

In reference to all the inquiries to which I have alluded, the Smith- 
sonian Institution has been called upon for aid and counsel, and has 
continually rendered active co-operation and assistance. Its labors, 
however, in this lino, as well as in several other branches of its ordi- 
nary operations, are not attended with results which can be given to 
the world through its publications. 

During the continuance of the war we must expect to find that 
more attention is given to the collection of facts than to the deduction 
from them of general principles ; the latter must be deferred to a 
period of more tranquillity, when the mind is in a better condition 
for continued application to the development of a single idea; con- 
sequently the number of papers which have been presented to the 
Institution since the date of the last report is less than that of any 
previous year. 

The meteorological system which had been established, and w^as in 
successful operation for several years before the commencement of 
the w^ar, has been much deranged, few records of observations having 
been received from the middle States and none from the southern; 
still, as I have before intimated, the labors of the Institution have 
been industriously pursued in lines more in accordance with the 
peculiar condition of the country. A large portion of all the time of 
the Secretary has been devoted to inquiries referred to the Institu- 
tion by the different departments of government. The work of pre- 
paring the duplicate specimens of the Institution for distribution 
has been continued. The library has been thoroughly overhauled, 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

partially rearranged, and a new catalogue of the transactions and 
proceedings of learned societies prepared for publication. Ex- 
tensive repairs and improvements have been made in the build- 
ing, by which several rooms, previously occupied by tanks for receiv- 
ing rain water, now rendered useless by the introduction of Potomac 
water, have been reclaimed for other uses. 

The efficient income of the Institution has been very essentially 
impaired during the past year. 1st. By the increased price of 
all the materials of printing and other articles used in the opera- 
tions of the establishment. 2d. On account of the high premium 
on gold required to pay the agents of the Institution in Europe and 
to meet the incidental expenses of exchanges, and the cost of serials 
and other works necessary for the use of the collaborators and other 
persons engaged in researches for the Institution. 3d. In conse- 
quence of the non-payment of the interest on the southern State 
stocks forming part of the extra fund. 

Still it will be seen by the report of the Executive Committee that 
the expenditures of the Institution during the past j'ear have been 
kept within the receipts, and a large balance retained in the treasury 
to meet the contingencies which may arise, particularly in the present 
unstable condition of public affairs. 

The interest on the Indiana stock for the first half of the year ,vas 
paid in specie, which was deposited with Messrs. Riggs & Co., with 
the understanding that it could be withdrawn in the same currency 
at any time it might be required. In the settlement of the accounts 
for the J ear this specie was sold and the premium added to the re- 
ceipts. 

A power of attorney has been forwarded from the President of the 
United States to Messrs. Fladgate, Clarke & Finch, of London, author- 
izing theai to collect the remainder of the Smithsonian fund, which 
was left, by the Honorable Mr. Rush, as the principal of an annuity to 
the mother of the nephew of Smithson. Tlio power of attorney was 
forwarded to the care of Honorable Charles F. Adams, American 
minister to England, and the money, when collected, will be de- 
posited with George Peabody & Co., bankers, London, subject to the 
order of the Institution. 

As a fact connected with the history of this establishment, I may 
mention that the charter of a society in this city known as the National 
Institute expired in July last, and that in accordance with the law of 



16 RErOliT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Congress incorporating that society, tlie Secretary of tlie Interior de- 
livered the remainder of its library and museum to this Institution. 

The National Institute was founded twenty years ago, for the culti- 
vation of science, by a number of gentlemen of the city of Wasliing- 
ton, most of them connected with the government. It at first found 
favor with the public, and the hope was entertained that an 
endowment, in the form of a donation of land, or otherwise, would be 
granted by Congress, by wliich it would be enabled to support a 
museum and a library, and publish a series of transactions ; but this 
hope was not realized, and as the field it proposed to occupy fell 
within the province of the Smithsonian Institution, the society grad- 
ually declined in activity, and finally allowed its charter to expire by 
its own limitation. Before the organization of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, tlie personal effects of Srnithson, and the large collection of speci- 
mens procured by the exploring expedition, were placed in charge of 
the National Institute, and from the similarity of names the two estab- 
lishments were at first frequently confounded with one another. 

A large number of valuable books and specimens were presented 
to the Institute by various societies and individuals; but as there was 
not sufficient means to constantly employ a curator, or even to supply 
appropriate rooms for their preservation, these collections have been 
rendered comparatively of little importance. The specimens in 
ornithology and entomology were almost entirely destroyed by in- 
sects, and the library reduced principally to broken sets of periodicals 
and transactions of learned societies, duplicates of those already 
'in the library of the Institution. In some cases, however, we have 
been enabled to suppl}^ deficiencies, and the books so incorporated 
into the Smithsonian collection have been properly designated by an 
appropriate mark in the manuscript catalogue of the library. The 
most valuable part of these collections was that wliich related to 
mineralogy and ethnology. 

PnUlcations. The publications of the Institution, as stated in previ- 
ous reports, consist of three series: 1st. The Contributions to Knowl- 
edge. 2d. The Miscellaneous Collections. 3d. The Annual Reports. 

The Contributions include memoirs embracing the records of origi- 
nal investigations and researches, resulting in new truths, such as are 
considered interesting additions to the sura of human knowledge. 
Twelve volumes in quarto of this series have been published — the 
thirteenth is still in the press. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

The Miscellaneous Collections include works intended to facilitate 
the study of the various branches of natural history, to give instruc- 
tion as to the method of observing natural phenomena, and to furnish 
a variety of other matter connected with the progress of science. Of 
this series four large octavo volumes have been issued, and a fifth 
has been commenced. 

The Annual Reports to Congress consist, each, of an octavo volume 
of 450 pages. They contain the report of the Secretary as to the 
operations and condition of the Institution, the acts of the Regents, 
and an appendix, giving a synopsis of the lectures delivered at the 
Institution, extracts from correspondence, and articles of a character 
suited to meteorological observers, to teachers, and other persons 
especially interested in the promotion of knowledge. 

Conirihutions to hnoivledge. — The following papers have been ac- 
cepted for publication in the 13th volume of Contributions: 

1. The concluding paper of Dr. Kane's Series of Observations in 
the Arctic Regions. 

2. The reductions of the observations of McClintock while in search 
of Sir John Franklin. 

3. Parts II to VI of the Reduction of the Girard College Observa- 
tions, by Professor Bache. 

4. Ancient Mining on the Shores of Lake Superior, by Charles 
Whittlesey. 

5. On Respiration in the CJwlonia, by Drs. Mitchell and Morehouse. 

6. On Magnetic Observations in Pennsylvania and adjacent States,, 
by Professor Bache. 

In the reports for 1859 and 18G0 accounts are given of two parts 
(which were subsequently divided into three parts) of a series of 
red:ictions of the magnetic observations made at Girard College, 
Philadelphia, from 1840 to 1845, inclusive, by Professor Bache. The 
first two of these papers relate to the investigation of what is called 
the eleven-year period of the variations of the needle, which coin- 
cides with the recurrence in frequency of the spots on the sun. The 
third paper relates to the influence of the moon on the variation of 
the magnetic needle as shown by the Girard observations. 

Of the same series there have been accepted and printed parts 4, 
5. and 6. The fourth refers to the change of horizontal force coin- 
ciding with the eleven-year period of the spots on the sun. In ex- 
planation of this it may be stated that the whole magnetic force of 
the earth upon a needle freely suspended causes it to take a direction 
H. Mis. Doc. 25 2 



18 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

inclined to the horizon, at all places north and south of the magnetic 
equator, which direction is called the magnetic dip or inclination. 
The force with which the needle is drawn into this position may bo 
resolved into two forces — one in the plane of the horizon, and the 
other perpendicular to this plane. By knowing the horizontal com- 
ponent, and the angle of the dip, the total force may be readily cal- 
culated, and as this element can be much more accurately determined 
than that in the line of the dip, it is the one which is generally made 
the object of observation. 

In the case of the observations made by Professor Bache, the in- 
strument employed was one of Gauss's large bifilar magnetometers, 
which consisted of a magnetic bar Aveighing twenty-five pounds, 
upwards of thirty-six inches long, and suspended horizontally by two 
long fine wires slightly diverging from parallelism. This magnetic 
bar instead of being allowed to take a north and south position, or to 
settle in the direction of the magnetic meridian, was forced to turn 
nearly at right angles to this position by twisting the pair of suspen- 
sion wires so as to overcome the directive force of the magnetism of 
the earth. In this position the bar was in a state of equilibrium 
between two forces, viz : the torsion of the wires tending to 
turn the north end of the needle round towards the west, and the 
horizontal magnetic force of the earth which tended to draw it back 
into the meridian. In this condition, if the magnetism of the earth 
diminishes, the force of torsion will prevail, and the bar will move 
from the meridian. If the magnetism of the earth increases, the 
torsion will be relatively weaker, and the bar will move in an opposite 
direction. Attached to this bar was a mirror which, reflecting the 
image of the divisions of a scale into the object glass of a telescope, 
enabled the observer to perceive a variation in the intensity of the 
force, equivalent to a ten-thousandth part of the whole force. 

The indications of this instrument were corrected for variations in 
magnetism produced by changes of temperature, and for a constant 
small diminution in the intensit}' of the bar, from an actual loss of its 
magnetic force. But besides these changes in the magnetism of the 
bar itself, there is a progressive change in the horizontal component 
of the earth's magnetism, which may be due either to a change in the 
direction of the force, or to a change of its intensity. After allowing 
for these, from observations made in various parts of the earth on 
changes of direction and intensity, the next step was to separate the 
large disturbances, which have been called magnetic storms, from the 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

series of orclinar}' records. For this purpose deviations from the nor- 
mal position of the bar amounting to tliirty -three scale divisions were 
considered as due to abnormal disturbances of this kind. This num- 
ber was ascertained by a theorem founded on the doctrine of proba- 
bilities, for which we are indebted to Professor Pierce, of Cambridge. 
Out of 24,231 observations, 1,G98, according to this criterion, were 
considered as abnormal disturbances. After all the larger disturbances 
were excluded, new monthly means were taken, and all deviations 
from these of thirty-three divisions were again set apart. 

The result of this elaborate investigation is, that the variation in 
intensity of the horizontal component of the earth's force is subject 
to a change coincident with that fourid from observations in other 
parts of the world, which has been called the eleven-year period, or 
that corresponding with the frequency of the appearance of the spots 
on the sun. The observations extended only through five years, 
which was less than half the whole period ; the data were not there-' 
fore sufficient to determine the movement through its complete cycle, 
although they served to mark the minimum point and the ascending 
and descending parts of the curves of illustration between two 
maxima. 

Tiie fifth part relates to investigations on the effect of the sun in 
producing daily and annual variations of the horizontal component 
of the magnetic force. These investigations were made upon the 
quantities which remained after removing from the tables the larger 
or fitful disturbances previously described, leaving the normal effect 
due to the sun from a change in its distance from the earth, and per- 
haps from a change in the relative position of its magnetic poles on 
account of the revolution of the earth in its orbit. Blanks in the 
tables of observations were filled by interpolation. From these in- 
vestigations it appears that the horizontal magnetic force of the earth, 
or the intensity with which a deflected magnetic needle is drawn 
back toward the north, varies with the different hours of the day. 
The variation is greatest in summer and least in winter; the force is 
most intense at a little after G o'clock in the morning, and diminishes 
rapidly until a little after 10 o'clock a. m., when it reaches its mini- 
mum, and again commences to increase, and continues to do so until 
about 3 o'clock p. m., when it again declines until about 11 o'clock 
at night. The amount of change is much greater in the day time 
than at night, the whole indicating that this daily variation depends 
on the varying heat derived from the sun. 



20 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The 6tb and last part of this interesting series relates to the lunar 
influence on the horizontal magnetic force. 

Each observation, after being corrected for temperature and for the 
progressive changes in the earth's magnetism, was marked with the 
corresponding lunar hours, reckoning from the passage of the moon 
over the meridian. The difference was then taken between the posi- 
tion of the magnetic bar, as calculated from all the hours and 
that found by observation at each lunar hour, and the difference 
was considered as the effect of the magnetism of the moon on the 
earth. 

From these and similar observations, it appears that the moon 
exerts a magnetic influence on the earth. The principal magnetic 
effect takes place 2 h. 52 m. after the upper passage of the moon 
over the meridian: secondary effect, 1 h. 7 m. ; lower passage, princi- 
]ial minimum, at G h. 41": lower passage, secondary minimum, at 8 
h. 19 m. after upper. 

Another paper contains an abstract of the observations and results, 
v/ith the discussion of a detailed magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and 
jjart of the adjacent States of New York, Ohio, and Maryland, 
originally made by Professor Bache, and resurveyed by Mr. Charlca 
A. Schott. 

In the study of terrestrial magnetism, two objects are essentially 
necessary: first, the direction and intensity of the magnetic force of 
the earth at a given epoch; and secondly, the variation in these ele- 
ments after a known interval. 

In 1840, 1841, and 1843, Professor Bacho made a series of obser- 
vations to determine the magnetic elements at a number of prominent 
places in Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, Maryland, and Canada. The 
whole number of stations at which he ascertained the declination or 
variation was 16, and of those where the dip and intensity was ob- 
served 48. 

Last summer Mr. C. A. Schott, an assistant in the coast survey, 
visited six of the stations at which Professor Bache had previously 
observed the magnetic elements, and by carefully redetermining 
them obtained the data for calculating the secular changes which 
had taken place during an interval of about twenty-years. The ob- 
servations originally made by Professor Bache, and also the late ones 
by Mr. Schott, were obtained with instruments of great precision, 
and will always furnish the elements of future comparison for the 
study of the changes which the magnetic force of the earth undergoes 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

in long periods. The paper commences with an abstract of those on 
the declination. To these are added the latitudes and longitudes of 
the places observed. 

The observed magnetic variations, at the different places, have 
been reduced to the epoch of January, 1842, by adding the annual 
increase, namely 2' 7, found by comparing the observations of 1840 
with those of 1862. An elaborate discussion of the horizontal force 
furnishes a comparison of European and American results. The de- 
ductions from the observations on the dip of the needle are given 
in terms of geographical latitude and longitude, and the isoclinal 
lines or lines of equal dip are protracted on a map which also con- 
tains tlie lines of equal magnetic force, both in regard to its 
horizontal and total intensity. Three of the stations visited by Mr. 
Schott fell within the scope of the coast survey; and the expense of 
the redetermination of the magnetic elements, at these points, was 
defrayed by the superintendent of that work; the determinations at 
the remaining stations were at the expense of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

An account of the other papers in this volume has been given in 
the previous report. 

Miscellaneous Collections. — Several series of articles forming parts of 
the series of Miscellaneous Collections, as stated in previous reports, 
have been undertaken, of which some have been completed, some are 
still in hand, and others have been printed during the past year. 

The first of these series is that relating to the shells of North 
America, and will consist of the following works : 

1. Check lists of North American shells, by P. P. Carpenter, Sec, 

2. Circular relative to collecting shells. 

3. Elementary introduction to the study of conchology, by P. P. 
Carpenter. 

4. List of the species of shells collected by the United States ex- 
ploring expedition, by the same author. 

5. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the west coast of the 
United States, Mexico, and Central America, b}^ the same author. 

G. Descriptive catalogue of the air-breathing shells of North 
America, by W. G. Binney. 

7. Descriptive catalogue of several genera of water-breathin"- 
fresh-water univalves, by the same author. 

8. Descriptive catalogue of the Melaniadae. or the remainder of the 
water-breathing fresh water univalves, by George "W. Tryon. 



22 EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

9. Descriptive catalogue of tbe Corhiculidae or Cydodidae, a group 
of bivalves principally inhabiting fresh-water, by Temple Prime. 

10. Descriptive catalogue of the Unionidac, or fresh-water mussels. 

11. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the eastern coast of the 
United States, by W. Stimpson. 

12. Bibliography of North American conchology, by W. G. Binney. 
The first and second articles of the foregoing list were printed in 

1860, and described in the report for that year, tind since then in 
their wide distribution have done good service in facilitating the 
collecting, labelling, and exchanging of specimens of conchology. 

The third article was published in 1861, as a part of the annual report 
for 1860, and a new edition vill be incorporated in the Miscellaneous 
Collections as soon as we can procure the long-promised wood -cuts 
from the British Museum, to illustrate the work. 

The fourth and fifth articles are still in the hands of Mr. Carpen- 
ter, and will, it is expected, be ready for the press the ensuing year. 

With reference to the sixth article, it ma}^ be mentioned that for 
many years before his death, the late Dr. Amos Binney, of Boston, 
■was engaged in collecting and arranging materials for a general work 
upon the land shells of the United States. The result of his labors 
was published after his decease, in three large volumes, giving co- 
pious descriptions and accurate figuros of all the species. His col- 
lections are now in the hands of his son, Mr. W. G. Binney, of Bur- 
lington, New Jersey, who has since greatly extended them, and has 
brought up the subject of his father's work to the present day, b^'' 
various supplements, memoirs, &c. He has also lately rearranged 
all the materials in his possession, and prepared from them, for this 
Institution, the synopsis which is given as the sixth article in the 
above enumeration. 

The seventh and eighth articles include an- account of fresh-water 
univalves of the United States. Within the last twenty years the 
number of described species of this class of animals known in this 
country has greatly increased. The descriptions of these previously 
made were from specimens collected in isolated situations, oftentimes 
by persons who had not had the opportunity of studying large col- 
lections or of comparing typical specimens, and, indeed, in some 
cases Avithout access to descriptions which had been previously made 
by others. The shells belonging to this class are characterized, per- 
haps above most others, by a remarkable range of variation in form 
and size arising from local causes, or different stages of growth, &c. 



EEPOET OF THE SECEETART. 23 

Many of them arc also furnished with so few positive specific external 
characters-, that for their determination an anatomical difference in 
their soft parts can alone be depended upon. To study, therefore, 
satisfactorily single species of fluviatile shells, one must have before 
him, says Mr. Binney, a very large suite of specimens of all ages, from 
ever}^ portion of the district which it inhabits, as well as authentic speci- 
mens of every allied described species, with an equally complete set 
of individimls. From these facts it is evident that among the descrip- 
tions of these shells which have been made by different authors, and 
published in different works, there must be many which refer to the 
same species; or, in other words, that the bibliography of this branch 
of natural history must abound in synonyms exceedingly perplexing 
to the student, as well as exhibit imperfections in the systematic 
exposition of the subject which ought not to exist. Such a con- 
dition must occur from time to time in every branch of natural 
histor}^, and it therefore becomes important that some person com- 
petent to the task should go over the whole field and reduce to what 
is called a monograph, or single sketch, all that has been previously 
done in regard to it. 

Mr. Binney in his portion of the catalogue does not attempt to pre- 
sent a complete monograph, but rather a report on our present state 
of knowledge relative to fluviatile univalves. He has given an Eng- 
lish translation of all the original descriptions and a facsimile of the 
outline of each original figure. The portion of this w^ork which re- 
lates to the fresh-water univalves of North America intrusted to Mr. 
Binney has been completed, and is now in the press. The remainder 
on the Ilelaidadae, undertaken by Mr. Tryon, has been commenced; 
but since the family contains a large number of species exhibiting 
many of the variations above-mentioned, a year or more will be re- 
quired before it can be completed. 

The ninth article, or that relating to the C/jcIadidae, is nearl}' ready 
for the press. The recent species of this group are generally small 
and inhabit the fresh waters of various parts of the world, although 
some belong to brackish or even marine localities. Mr. Prime has 
paid particular attention to this group, and is said to be one of the 
first living authorities in regard to the subject. 

The eleventh article of the above-mentioned series wnll include 
detailed descriptions by Mr. Stimpson of all the marine shells of the 
eastern coast of the UnitedStates, with original notices of the internal 
stracture. 



24 EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

The twelfth article in the series above enumerated is the biblio- 
graphy of conchology, which has been prepared to avoid the neces- 
sity of repeating bibliographical references in the different manuals 
just enumerated. It is intended to give, first, an account of all the 
articles or works of American authors, relative to conchology in 
general, and secondly, those of foreign writers relative to the con- 
chology of North America. 

All the species referred to by authors are enumerated after the 
title of each article, and such references to the page and date of 
description are given as will enable any species to be quoted from 
the bibliography itself without the necessity of referring to the origi- 
nal. A complete index of authors, and of all the species mentioned, 
placed at the end of the w^ork, will greatly facilitate its use. The 
first part of this work, embracing the writings of American authors, 
forms an entire volume of the Miscellaneous Collections of upward of 
700 pages, of which 400 are already stereotyped. 

Another series of works belonging to the Miscellaneous Collections 
is intended to facilitate the study and the advancement of the science 
of entomology, of which the several articles are the following: 

1. Instructions for collecting and preserving insects. 

2. Catalogue of the described Diptera (flies, mosquitoes, &c.) of 
North America, by Baron Osten Sacken. 

3. Catalogue of the described Lepidoptera (butterflies, moths, 
<fcc.) of North America, by Dr. 'Jno. G. ]!*Iorris. 

4. Classification of the Coleoptera (beetles, &c.) of North America, 
by Dr. Jno. L. LeConte. 

5. Synopsis of the described Neuroptera (dragon flies, &c.) of 
North America, with a list of the South American species, by 
Hermann Hagen. 

6. Synopsis of the described Lepidoptera of North America. Ft. 
1, Diurnal & Crepuscular Lepidoptera, by Dr. Jno. G. Morris. 

7. List of the Coleoptera of North America, mth descriptions of 
new species, by Dr. John L. LeConte. 

8. Monographs of the Diptera of North America, by H. Loew, with 
additions by Osten Sacken. 

9. Catalogues of Homoptera and Hemiptera (chinches, roaches, 
&c.) of North America, by P. R. Uhler. 

10. Descriptive catalogue of the Ilymenoptera (bees, wasps, &c.) 
of North America, by Dr. Henri DeSaussure. 

These have all been described in previous reports, and have all been 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

printed excepting the Otli unci lOtli, wliicli are still in pre[)aration, 
and a part of the 7th, which has been delayed on account of the call 
cm Dr. LeConte to a position in the medical department of the army 
of the United States. 

■The instructions for collecting and preserving insects were published 
in the appendix to the report for 1858. A new and enlarged edition 
will be published during the coming year as a part of the next volume 
of the Miscelloueous Collections. 

Another part of the Miscellaneous Collections is a series of tables 
furnished by Professor Gayot in addition to the set of physical tables 
by the same author, previously published by the Institution, The 
first of these is intended for converting the klafter and feet of Vienna 
into measures of length of other countries. They are to be substituted 
for those contained in the former edition, because they are derived 
fi-om a new comparison of the Mafter of Vienna and French toise, by 
Von Struve and Von Littrow. This comparison has furnished the 
standard adopted in the great trigonometrical survey of Austria. 
The second set of tables is for converting the Spanish or Mexican 
and Bolivian varas and feet into English and French measures. 

The preceding tables have been printed, and are inserted in volume 
I of the Miscellaneous Collections. 

The third set of tables gives the value of a degree of the meridian 
in every degree of latitude from the equator to the poles, in metres, 
kilometres, German miles, nautical leagues, French leagues, geo- 
graphical or nautical miles, and English statute miles. 

The fourth set of tables gives the value of each degree of longitude 
on each parallel of latitude, from 0° to 90°, in the same measures as 
those mentioned above. 

The two preceding sets of tables, v/hicli are based on Bessel's ter- 
restrial elements, have been computed under the direction of Professor 
Bache at the office of the Coast Survey, and have been kindly fur- 
nished by him for this volume. The columns of the German miles and 
nautical and French leagues have been added to make the table more 
complete. 

The fifth set of tables is for converting the most usual measures of 
lenglh into each other, such as myriametres and kilometres, Austrian, 
Prussian, and German miles, nautical leagues, French, Spanish, and 
Mexican leagues, geographical or nautical and statute miles, and Russian 
wersts. 



2G EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The sixth set of tables is for the conversion of the corresponding 
surface or square measures of the preceding table into each other. 

These measures, which are also founded on the late terrestrial ele- 
ments of Cessel, have been selected with reference to the frequency 
of use in the consultations of the ofiScial publications of different 
European nations. Each of the above tables furnishes the value of' 
every fall number from 1 to 100, in six figures for the measures of 
length, and seven for those of surface. 

The seventh set of tables gives the velocity of rotation of the earth 
for each degree of latitude, expressed in the measures of length most 
frequently used, and will facilitate computations in regard to the 
velocity of the wind. 

rhe whole series comprises over 17,000 separate numbers, filling 
70 large octavo pages. 

It is proposed to add to these tables one giving the length of time 
of sunshine in different latitudes for each day in the year, and, to 
complete the series, a number of tables for calculating the resultant 
direction of the winds. 

It is believed that these tables will be received as a welcome addi- 
tion to the physical tables previously published by the Institution, 
and which are now well known and used in every part of the civilized 
world. They will be of value to the meteorologist and physical 
geographer, as well as to the statistician and political economists 
The first set is indispensable for easily computing distances on globes, 
maps, &c. ; the second v/ill greatly facilitate the use of the numerous 
data furnished by travellers, scientific publications, and especially 
the official statistical information contained in the various documents 
of the states of Europe. The selection of the various measures is 
made with special reference to the latter — as the myriametre and 
kilometre for the study of later French publications, and the com- 
mon French league for the older ones ; the Austrian and Prussian 
miles, the Russian vverst, and English statute mile for publications in 
the countries where those measures are used. In the preparation of 
these tables a question has arisen whether an additional series 
should be constructed for the conversion of the American foot into 

the English, between which there is, unfortunately, a slight dif- 
ference. 

Beports. — The annual reports to Congress are printed at the ex- 
pense of the government, with the exception of the cost of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

wood-cuts, wliicli is at the expense of the Institution. The re- 
port for 18G1 contains, besides'the report of the Secretary and the acts 
of the Regents, a Eulogy on Prof. Felton, by Dr. Woolsey, President 
of Yale College; a Eulogy on Hon. Stephen A., Douglas, by Hon. S. S. 
Cox ; synopsis of lectures on the Construction of Bridges, by Fair- 
man Rogers, of the University of Pennsylvania ; lecture on the rela- 
tion of Time and Space, by Prof. S. Alexander, of the College of New 
Jersey; lecture on Arctic Explorations, by Dr. I. I. Hayes ; a memoir 
of Geoffrey St. Hilaire, by M, Flourens ; the chemical analysis of the 
Sun by means of the Solar Spectrum ; the small planets between Mars 
and Jupiter ; studies and experiments on Metamorphism, by M. 
Daubree, and anumber of articles on Archasology, all translated for the 
Institution ; also a report on Nitrification, prepared for the Institution 
by C. F. Craig, M. D. ; the history of Petroleum, by T. Sterry Hunt ; 
and the explosibility of Coal Oil, by Z. Allen ; list of birds inhabiting 
the District of Columbia, by E. Coues and D. W. Prentiss ;. and a 
series of prize questions of scientific societies, together with a num- 
ber of minor articles. 

The reports for a number of years past have contained a series of 
memoirs of distinguished men of science, members of the French 
Academy, translated for the Institution by C. A. Alexander, Esq., of 
this cit}'". It is intended to continue the translation and publication 
of similar memoirs, and when the number is sufficient to form an 
ordinary sized volume, to collect and publish them in a separate 
form. 

Of the last report, 10,000 extra copies were ordered by Congress, of 
which 4,000 were presented to the Institution for distribution among 
its special correspondents. The requests for copies of this work 
have been constantly increasing from year to year, and it is to be 
regretted that the pages were not stereotyed, since there is now a 
large demand for back numbers, to complete sets, which cannot be 
obtained. 

Previous to last year we were allowed to have extra copies of cer- 
tain articles of the report struck off for separate distribution, but 
under the new rules for the regulation of the public printing this 
privilege was denied us in the case of the report for 18G1. It is 
thought, however, that if a proper statement were made to Congress, 
a clause would be added to the acts relative to the government 
printing which would give all the facilities required. 



28 EEPORT OF THE SECKETAEY. 

The following general rules for the distribution of the reports have 
been adopted : 

1st. They are presented to all the meteorological observers who 
send records of the weather to the Institution. 

2d. To the collaborators of the Institution. 

3d. To donors to the museum or library. 

4th. To colleges and educational establishments. 

5th. To public libraries and literary and scientific societies. 

Gth. To teachers, or individuals who are engaged in special studies, 
and who make direct application for them. 

It is proper to remark that, owing to the many changes which have 
taken place since the commencement of the war in the list of corre- 
spondents of the Institution, it has not been thought advisable to send 
the report, as heretofore, to all whose names are on the record of 
distribution, but in most cases to wait until direct application is made 
by letter for a copy of the work. Whenever a report is sent to any 
address, a separate announcement is made through the mail by enclos- 
ing a blank receipt, to be signed and returned to the Institution. 

In view of the great cost of paper at the present time and the 
space required for storage of a large edition of each volume of the 
publications of the Institution, it has been thought advisable to ste- 
reotype the text and strike off only as many copies as are required for 
immediate distribution, printing a new supply from time to time to 
satisfy the demands as they arise. By the adoption of this plan, 
should the cost of paper return to its normal rate, the expense of the 
stereotype plates would be saved. 

3Ietcorology. — The meteorological system has continued to be car- 
ried on as in former years, though necessarily very much dimin- 
ished in extent on account of the absence of records from the southern 
States. The volume of meteorological reductions from 1854 to 1859, 
an account of which was given in the last report, has been published 
and distributed to the meteorological observers, to public libraries, 
and foreign institutions. Many letters have been received expressing 
the new interest in the system that has been awakened bj^the appear- 
ance of this volume, and the records which before existed only in the 
archives of the Institution are now in the hands of a large number 
of the students of science, whose various tastes and abilities will 
enable them to draw from them important general results. The 
second volume is still in press at the Government office, the print- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

iDg of it having been delayed by that of documents of more im- 
mediate importance. It is expected, however, that it will be finished 
during the year 18G3. 

The daily telegraphic bulletin of the state of the weather, which 
was entirely discontinued for some time on account of the demands of 
public business, has been partially resumed, and we are indebted to 
the courtesy of Mr. Anson Stager for occasional despatches since 
the early part of December last, from stations in the Rocky moun- 
tains, and even from points as far west as California. These telegrams, 
however are not sufficient to enable us to predict, with much proba- 
bility, the changes of weather, without the additional information from 
the south and southwest. The telegraphic bulletin giving the daily 
condition of the weather at various important positions on the con- 
tinent of Europe continues to be lithographed by the Imperial Ob- 
servatory at Paris, and is sent to the Institution by every steamer. 

In May last a circular was distributed asking for information on 
the subject of tornadoes, the principal design of which is to direct 
attention to a full and definite system of observations, so that on the 
recurrence of tornadoes precise and uniform reports may be obtained 
as to all the features of the phenomenon. In addition to the special 
replies to the circular, a number of general answers have been re- 
ceived, which are of interest in helping to define the regions of our 
country where these destructive visitants frequently appear, and 
those in which they are happily almost unknown. From Steuben, 
Maine, Mr. J. D. Parker writes: "There was never a tornado seen 
hereabouts by any one, so far as I can learn;" and Mr. R. II, Gar- 
diner, at Gardiner, in the same State, says: " Tornadoes are of very 
rare occurence in this part of the country. I have no knowledge of 
any within the last fifty years." From Yermont, Mr. Hiram A. 
Cutting, of Lunenburg, informs us that "there never was but one 
tornado, in this section, in my remembrance, and that was at Victory, 
about twenty miles northwest of this place, in the summer of 1842." 
Mr. Levi Packard, residing in the State of New York, at Spencertown, 
Columbia county, between the Hudson river and Massachusetts, tells 
us there are no tornadoes in that tract of countr}-. On the other hand, 
we are informed that over the swampy region of the great bend of the 
Mississippi tornadoes are very frequent, and the paths of many of them 
are marked upon the ground for miles by prostrate trees and other 
indications of a violent disturbance of the atmosphere. 



30 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

Correct general information of this kind would furnish material for 
the preparation of an interesting map,- showing at a glance the 
regions where tornadoes annually prevail, and those where they oc- 
cur only occasionally, or not at all. In meteorological investiga- 
tion we always make a step in advance when the region to which 
phenomena are limited can be accurately defined. 

Since the latter part of October, a series of daily observations has 
been made for the Institution, by Mr. Force, on the temperature of 
the hydrant water in Washington. The water flows some six or 
seven miles through iron pipes, under ground, before reaching the 
place of delivery, , and acquires, approximately, the temperature of 
the soil at the depth at which the pipes are laid. The observations 
were made at a hydrant out of doors, about 7 o'clock every morning, 
the water being allowed to flow two or three minutes before noting 
the temperature. "When the curves for the water and the air are 
plotted on the same diagram and the same scale, they exhibit to the 
eye, in a very striking manner, the extreme fluctuations of the tem- 
perature of the air, compared with that of the ground, at the depth 
of only two or three feet. They also show the slowness with which 
variations of temperature penetrate the earth. The change pro- 
duced by a decided increase or decrease of temperature being gene- 
rally indicated by the water two or three days after it occurred in 
the open air. 

Among the contributions relative to meteorology which have been 
received at the Institution, is a series of tri-daily observations made 
at Brunswick, Maine, by the late Professor Parker Cleaveland, from 
1808 to 1859. The records include observations on the ordi- 
nary thermometer, the maximum and minimum thermometer, the 
barometer, rain-gauge, wind-vane, &c. It is proposed to publish these 
in full, as a part of the second volume of the "Meteorological Re- 
sults," but for this purpose it is desirable that the means for months, 
years, and the whole period, should be calculated, and this work is 
now in progress, and will probably be finished before the printer 
will call for the copy. The publication of these observations is in 
accordance with the plan adopted to print in full a number of long 
series of observations such as those we have already published, viz: 
for Providence, Rhode Island, and "Washington, Arkansas. They 
will be of much interest for solving various meteorological problems, 
such as the recurrence of particular phenomena, changes of seasons, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

vsrification or disproval of the many empirical rules which have been 
proposed and are used for predicting the weather, &c. The exten- 
sive series of observations made by Dr. S. P. Ilildreth, of Marietta, 
Ohio, mentioned in a previous report, belong to the same class, and 
will also be inserted in the volume above mentioned. 

We have already referred to the additions to the meteorological 
tables of Professor Guyot, and stated that it is proposed to still far- 
ther increase these tables by a series intended to facilitate the calcu- 
lation of the mean direction of the wind. 

The directions and blanks for making meteorological observations 
which have been prepared and published at the expense of the In- 
stitution have been extensively distributed in this country, and trans- 
lated and reprinted abroad. The geographical and statistical society 
of Mexico has recently adopted them, and signified the intention of 
co-operating with the Institution in extending its system of observa- 
tions more widely over this continent. Were not our general system 
of meteorology interrupted by the discontinuance of the reception of 
observations from the southern States, this would be an important 
addition to our means of tracing the extent of disturbance of the 
atmosphere which accompanies our winter storms. 

Professor Gu3'ot availed himself of a visit which he made to Europe 
last year to establish by his own observation the relation of the 
standard barometers used by the Institution to the most important 
standards of the European observatories. The comparisons were 
made by means of two Fortin barometers, with cistern of constant 
level, as modified by Ernst, of Paris, and constructed several years 
ago by that skilful artist for the Institution. Both instruments had 
been previously tested by long usage, and just before leaving this 
country their relation to a large standard barometer by Newman, of 
London, and a large sized barometer by Ernst, was ascertained by a 
series of numerous comparisons made with great care. * These two 
instruments were directly compared in Europe with a standard 
barometer at Kew observatory, tiow acknowledged as the nor- 
mal barometer among English meteorologists, and with the stan- 
dard instruments at the Brussels, Berlin, and Geneva observatories, 
by the kind permission and assistance of the directors of these several 
institutions. Professors Stanley, Quetelet, Enke, and Plantamour. 
The last set of compa.risons at Geneva, Switzerland, was found par- 
ticularly useful from the fact that by the untiring care of Professor 
Plantamour the relation of his barometer has been fully established 



32 REPOST OF THE SECRETARY. 

with that of Regnault in the College cle France, and that of the ob- 
servatory of Paris. On his return Professor Guyot made a new series 
of comparisons with the same Smithsonian standards as before, 
the results of which proved that no change had taken place during 
his absence in the two barometers used abroad. It is believed 
that these comparisons establish a correspondence of the Euro- 
pean and American standard barometers within the narrow limit 
of one or two-thousandths of an inch. A large standard is about to 
be prepared under the direction of Professor Guyot, to which these 
determinations will be referred. 

The meteorological branch of the operations of the Institution still 
continues under the charge of Mr. William Q. Force, to whose habits 
of order and scrupulous accuracy the system is much indebted for 
whatever value it possesses. 

Among the contributions to the meteorological materials of the 
Institution, presented during the last year, is a series of continuous 
records of the changes of atmospheric temperature made by a ma- 
chine invented by Dr. James Lewis, of Mohawk, New York. This 
instrument consists of an arrangement of a number of brass and iron 
wires, whose relative contraction and expansion give motion to 
a metallic point, the several positions of Vv'hich are marked by a 
puncture in a fillet of paper, produced by a blow of a hammer 
moved by clockwork, repeated at regular intervals of fifteen minutes. 
Although instruments of this kind have been frequently constructed, 
they have generally not possessed sufficient sensibility to indicate the 
fitful changes of the atmosphere. Dr. Lewis appears, however, to 
have been more successful in his invention, and from the results 
which he has presented to us it would appear that the registers of his 
self-recording instrument are of considerable value in determining 
the general law of changes of temperature, especially during the day, 
and thus furnishing corrections by which the mean temperature of 
places in the same latitude can be obtained from observations made 
at only one or more hours of the day. It may be mentioned here 
that an idea has been very prevalent in this country among observers 
that to obtain the average temperature of a place, the best times of 
observation are about sunrise and sunset, and at 2 or 3 o'clock in the 
afternoon; but as the rising and setting of the sun occurs at different 
times in different seasons of the year, and as the maximum tempera- 
ture occurs at different hours in different latitudes, it is best always 
to make the observations as nearly as possible at fixed hours, as, for 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETAEY. 33 

instance, at those wliicli have been adopted by this Institution, viz: 7, 
2, and 9; since, by observing this rule, corrections derived from such 
observations as those made by Mr. Lewis can be applied so as to give with 
more precision the average temperature of the place of observation. 
The present Surgeon General, Dr. Hammond, takes a lively interest 
in meteorology, as one of the branches of science intimately con- 
nected with his department; and as soon as the posts and canton- 
ments are again permanently established will reorganize the system 
of army observations on a more extended scale, and furnish it. with 
the instruments and instructions prepared under the direction of this 
Institution. 

Lahoratory. — The operations of the laboratory during the past 
year have principally consisted in the preparation of a large quantity of 
Laborraque's disinfecting liquid, and the continuance of the examina- 
tion of minerals preparatory to a distribution of duplicates. More than 
a thousand bottles of the disinfecting liquid have been prepared for 
the use of the hospitals in the city of Washington. The efBcacy of 
this substance has been demonstrated by abundant experience. 
Simply sprinkling it on the floor, or wetting with it a cloth placed 
near the source of unpleasant effluvia, at once renders the air of 
the apartment entirely inodorous. The preparation of this substance 
is still going on and will be continued as long as the article may be 
required for the hospitals. 

The examination of the minerals preparatory to a distribution of 
the duplicates has not been carried on as rapidly as could be wished, 
on account of the absence of the person to whom this duty was as- 
signed. We have, however, ready for distribution, upwards of two 
hundred sets of specimens, properly labelled, of the stones used in 
erecting the public buildings in the city of Washington. 

In consideration of the high rate of exchange no purchases of 
foreign apparatus have been made during the past year. Occasion 
however, has been taken, in the interval of other business, to remodel 
the cases of the apparatus room, in order to a better disposition and 
display of the instruments. The room itself is fifty feet square with 
a ceiling of twenty-five feet in height. Around the four sides of this 
room, cases of about six feet deep and ten feet high have been con- 
structed. The upper floorings of these cases extend about two feet 
beyond their front, and thus form a projecting gallery entirely around 
the room, which serves for the display of larger instruments as well 
H. Mia. Doc. 25 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

as to increase the available capacity of the apartment. The whole 
arrangement produces a pleasing architectural effect, while from the 
size of the cases instruments ma}^ frequently be used in the way of 
experiment without bringing them out into the room, or exposing 
them to the handling of visitors. 

Collections of Specimens of Nalurcd History, etc. — In the last two re- 
ports a distinction was drawn between the large collections of speci- 
mens of natural history, &c., which have been made through the 
agency of this Institution and what is called the Smithsonian Museum. 
This distinction has become necessary in order to separate more 
clearly in the public mind two objects, which, although they are gen- 
erally confounded, are in the case of this Institution essentially dif- 
ferent. The object of making large collections of duplicate speci- 
mens is twofold, first, to advance science by furnishing to original 
investigators, wherever they may reside, new materials for criti- 
cal study; and second, to diffuse knowledge by pi-oviding colleges, 
academies, and other educational establishments with the labelled 
specimens necessary to give definite ideas of the relations and diver- 
sities of the various productions of nature. The principal end 
attained by the public museum of the Institution has been the grati- 
fication and incidental instruction of the visitors to the city of Wash- 
ington. It is true that there are preserved in the museum the type 
specimens cf the species and genera which have been described, and 
of which accounts have been published at the expense of the Smith- 
son fund, or by other means; but for the preservation of these there 
is required no costly building nor corps of attendants, and, indeed, 
the charge of them might well be assumed by other establishments. 

From the foregoing exposition it will readily be seen that while 
the collecting and distributing of large numbers of specimens is an 
important means of increasing and diffusing knowledge, and as such 
is in strict accordance with the will of the founder of this Institution, 
the support of a public museum, the effects of which must of neces- 
sity be in a great degree local, is not so consistent with the liberal 
intention of the bequest. 

It should not be inferred from the foregoing remarks that I mean to 
disparage the establishment of a general collection of objects of na- 
ture and art, like that of the British Museum or the Garden of Plants, 
which includes in its design the encouragement of original study as 
well as of popular instruction and amusement. On the contravy, I 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

have always advocated .this measure as one of national importance, 
while I have endeavored to show that it ought not to be attempted 
by means of the Smithsonian fund, and that it could only be properly 
carried out by a liberal annual appropriation from the public treasury, 

I have thought it necessary frequently to urge the importance of 
guarding against the tendency to increase the expenditure on local 
objects, and against accepting presents on condition that they shall 
be perpetually preserved and exhibited to the public at the expense 
of the Smithsonian fund. If this propensity were indulged in and 
donations solicited on the terms mentioned, which are those usuiUly 
agreed to in similar cases, the whole income of the bequest would be 
ultimately absorbed in providing house-room and accommodations for 
the collections ; and the active operations, as they are called, which 
have given so much celebrity to the name of Smithson, and have 
constituted the distinctive feature of the establishment, would cease. 

The collections of specimens wdiich have formed the prominent sub- 
ject of the preceding remarks may be divided into two classes, 
namely, those which have been studied and an account of them pub- 
lished in the reports of the government expeditions, or in the trans- 
actions of the Smithsonian and other institutions, and those which 
have not been described, and whicli consequently are considered of 
much interest to the naturalist, who may be anxious to make new 
explorations in the domain of natural history. Of both classes the 
Institution possesses a large number, for the disposition of which the 
following general rules have been adopted : 

First. To advance original science, the duplicate type specimens 
are distributed as widely as po&sible to scientific institutions in this 
and other countries, to be used in identifying the species and genera 
"which have been described. 

Second. For the purposes of education, duplicate sets of specimens, 
properly labelled, are presented to colleges and other institutions of 
learning in this country. 

Third. These donations are made on condition that due credit is to 
be given the Institution in the labelling of the specimens, and in all 
accounts which may be published of them. 

Foiuth. Specimens are presented to foreign institutions, on condi- 
tion that if type specimens are wanted for comparison or other use 
in this country they will be furnished when required. 

Fifth. In return for specimens which may be presented to colleges 
and other institutions, collections from localities in their vicinity shall 
be furnished when wanted. 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In the disposition of the undescribed specimens of the collection, 
the following considerations have been observed as governing prin- 
ciples : 

First. The original specimens are not to be intrusted for descrip- 
tion to inexperienced persons, but to those only who have given evi- 
dence of an ability properly to accomplish the task undertaken. 

Second. Preference is to be given to those who have been engaged 
in the laborious and difficult enterprise of making complete mono- 
graphs. 

Third. The investigator may be allowed, in certain cases, to take 
the specimens to his place of residence, and to retain them for study 
a reasonable time. 

Fourth. The use of the specimens is only to be given on condition 
that a series of types for the Smithsonian Museum will be selected 
and properly labelled, and the whole returned in good condition. 

Fifth. In any publications which may be made of the results from 
an investigation of the materials from the Smithsonian collection, full 
credit must be accorded to the Institution for the facilities which 
have been afforded. 

During the past year, the labelling of specimens for colleges and 
other educational institutions has been continued, but the work has 
not advanced with as much rapidity as was expected, owing to the 
call upon many of our co-laborers to join the army. Under the 
most favorable circumstances the labelling requires much labor, and 
cannot be properly done except by persons specially trained in par- 
ticular branches of natural history. 

The assorting and labelling of the principal part of the shells is 
still in progress under Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, of Warrington, Eng- 
land, assisted by Dr. Alcock. Other shells have been named, or are 
in the process of being named, by Prof. Agassiz and Dr. Stimpsou, 
of Cambridge ; Mr. Isaac Lea and Mr. G. W. Tryon, of Philadel- 
phia; Mr. W. G. Binney, of Now Jersey ; Mr. Prime, of New York ; 
Mr. Busk, of England ; and Dr. Steenstrup, of Copenhagen. 

The botanical collections, to which several additions have been 
made during the past year, are still in charge of Dr. Torrey, of New 
York, and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge. The assorting of the I'ocks 
and minerals is carried on in the Institution; and as an auxiliary 
work, Mr. Egleston has prepared a general list of mineral species 
to facilitate the labelling and exchange of specimens. This will be 
printed and distributed to correspondents during the present year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

The additions to the collection:^ of insects, during the 3'ear, have 
been referred for identification, as usual, to the collaborators in the 
line. of entomology, viz : To Baron Osten Sacken, Dr. Le Conte, Dr. 
Loew, Dr. Hagen, Dr. Morris, Dr. Clemens, Mr. Edwards, Mr. Nor- 
ton, Mr. Scudder, Mr. Ulke, and Mr. Uhler. 

The whole "number of entries on the record book of the Smith- 
sonian collection, up to the end of 18G2, is, according to the statement 
of Professor Baird, 74,775, and w.hen it is understood that each entry 
is that of a lot which in most cases contains many specimens, some 
idea may be formed of the whole number of specimens which have 
been collected through the agency of the Institution, and the service 
which will be rendered when all these are made available for the 
advancement and diffusion of knowledge among men. 

The Museum of the Institution consists principally of the tjq^e 
specimens of the various collections of objects of natural history and 
ethnolog}^ obtained by the different exploring and surveying expedi- 
tions sent out by the government of the United States, as well as by 
various special expeditions instituted at the expense of the Smithsonian 
fund. These specimens have generally been described, and in many 
cases figured in the reports published by Congress, or in the Smith- 
sonian or other transactions, and have thus rendered their chief ser- 
vice in the way of advancing knowledge. Yet, in view of the future 
progress of science, it is important, irrespective of their use for the 
purposes of education, that these specimens should be carefully pre- 
served, in order that they may be referred to as the original objects 
from which the descriptions were drawn. It often happens that in 
the subsequent study of similar specimens from other localities doubts 
arise as to some points of the published descriptions, which can only 
be solved by a reference to the original materials, and it is also fre- 
quently desirable to re-examine the specimens in relation to some 
new point of interest which may have been developed in the course 
of more extended investigation. 

The additions to the museum should be confined principall}' to the 
type specimens collected and described at the expense of the gen- 
eral government, or under the immediate auspices of the Institution. 
Even thus restricted the specimens will increase in number as rapidly 
as that part of the Smithsonian fund, which is taxed for their sup- 
port, will permit, and in time they will form of themselves a valu- 
able collection of authentic illustrations of the natural history of 
America. It is true, as is often urged, that the value of these speci- 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mens would bo enhanced by the addition for comparison of corre- 
sponding specimens from other parts of the world ; but the full 
adoption of this extension of the plan would involve the maintenance 
of a general museum, which, as has been repeatedly stated, is incom- 
patible with the means and design of the Institution. 

The only museum at present in this country, expressly established 
for the threefold object of popular instruction, systematic study, and 
original research, is that at Cambri(]ge, under the direction of Prof. 
Agassiz. For the purposes of such a museum specimens of all kinds, 
from every part of the earth, are necessary, and in accordance with 
the liberal policy by which it has always been governed, the Smith- 
sonian Institution has actively co-operated in assisting this exemplary 
enterprise of the State of Massachusetts. 

During the past year the type specimens of a number of series of 
collections, of which the duplicates have been separated for distribu- 
tion, have been transferred to the museum. The work of labelling the 
specimens, so that the common as well as the scientific name of each 
article may be distinctly exhibited, has been continued, and will pro- 
bably be completed before the end of the present year. But for an 
account in detail of what has been done in regard to the museum 
and the collections, I must refer to the report of Prof. Baird, here- 
with submitted. 

xis a matter of interest, and, in some cases, of importance, a 
record book is kept at the principal entrance of the building, in 
which the names of all the visitors are entered. Since the date of 
the last report the Institution has been visited by thousands of 
persons, who have been called by business or pleasure to the national 
capital. The specimens of natural history and ethnology have ex- 
cited much popular interest, particularly among those who come 
from the more distant western portions of the country. The museum 
and ground's are a favorite resort for the convalescent soldiers. 
The trees and shrubbery of the latter are growing finely, and the 
whole park, under the care of the Commissioner of Public Build- 
ings, B. B. French, Esq., forms no unworthy memento of the tal- 
ents of the lamented Downing, by whom its plan was designed. 

I am sorry, in this connection, to consider it my duty to refer to the 
existence of an evil over which, though you have no ofiQcial control, 
yet as legislators and prominent citizens you may exert a beneficial 
influence. I allude to the city canal, which forms the boundary of 
the Smithsonian grounds on the north. The basin or widest part of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

this canal, across which most of the visitors to the Institution have 
to pass, has become, since the introduction of the Potomac water, 
the receptacle of the sewage of the city, and is now an immense 
cesspool, constantly emitting noxious efiluvia prejudicial to the health 
and offensive to the senses of all who approach the locality. This 
nuisance, which will continue to increase with the increasing use of the 
Potomac water, may perhaps be mitigated by placing a gate" at each 
end of the wider part of the canal, to be closed after high tide and 
opened occasionally at low water, so as to discharge the contents 
with a force which would remove, in part, at least, the deleterious 
deposit. Cut the only effectual remedy, as it appears to me, is to 
fill up a part of the width of the canal, and convert the remainder 
into a sewer by covering it with an arch of masonry. This sewer 
may perhaps be cleared out by flood-gates, as before mentioned, or 
by anchoring flat-boats at the mouths of the drains, to be removed 
and emptied when filled. But whatever plan may be adopted, the 
character and prosperity of the city, as well as the interests of the 
Institution, are involved in a speedy and efficient effort to remove 
the evil. The small pecuniary benefit which may result from the 
canal to the city or to individuals ought not have any weight in the 
decision of this matter. 

Explorations. — A part of the large collections which have just been 
described was gathered through officers and other persons attached 
to the surveying and exploring expeditions sent out by the govern- 
ment, and another part by expeditions expressly organized for the 
purpose, under the immediate auspices of the Institution. Among the 
latter is the expedition mentioned in the last two reports as having 
been undertaken by Mr. Robert Kennicott, of Chicago. 

This enterprise has terminated very favorably, the explorer having 
returned richly laden with specimens, after making a series of obser- 
vations on the physical geography, ethnology, and the habits of ani- 
mals of the regions visited, which cannot fail to furnish materials of 
much interest to science. 

The route traversed by Mr. Kennicott was from Lake Superior, 
along Kamenistiquoy river, and Rainy and Winnipeg lakes, up the 
Saskatchewan river to Cumberland House ; thence nearly north 
through a series of rivers and lakes to Fort Churchill on English 
river, up the latter to Methy Portage, at which point he first reached 
the headwaters of the streams flowing into the Arctic ocean ; thence 



40 EEPOET OF THE SECKETARY. 

along the Clear "Water river and Athabasca lake, down Peace river 
into Great Slave lake, and along the Mackenzie river to Fort Simpson. 
At this place Mr. Kennicott spent a part of the first winter with the 
officers of the Pludson's Bay Company, making excursions up the Liard 
river to Fort Liard in autumn, and again on snow shoes in January. 
Before the close of the same winter he wont up the Mackenzie to Big- 
island, and thence northwest to Fort Rae, near the site of old Fort 
Providence. From this point he travelled on the ice across Great 
Slave lake to Fort Resolution, at the mouth of Peace river, where he 
spent the summer of 1860. He next descended the Mackenzie to Peel's 
river, and thence proceeded w^estward across the Rocky mountains, and 
down the Porcupine river to the Youkon, in the vicinity of which he 
spent the winter of I860- Gl, and the summer of 1861. The winter 
of 1861 and '62 was spent at Peel's river, and La Pierre's house in the 
Rocky mountains, and in travelling from this point up to Fort Simpson 
and back to Fort Good Hope on the Mackenzie. He left the last-men- 
tioned place on the 1st of June, 1862, and reached home in October. 

During the Avhole exploration he was the guest of the Hudson's 
Bay Company, the officers of which not only furnished him with free 
transportation for the materials he collected, but also extended to him 
in the most liberal manner the hospitalities of their several posts, and 
facilitated in every way in their power the objects of his perilous 
enterprise. 

The principal object of the exploration was to collect materials for 
investigating the Zoology of the region visited. Mr. Kennicott, 
however, also collected specimens of plants and minerals, and 
gave considerable attention'to the ethnology of the country, in ob- 
serving the peculiarities of the various Indian tribes, and forming 
vocabularies of the languages. He carried with him a number of 
thermometers, and succeeded in enlisting a number of persons as 
meteorological observers, as well as in exciting an interest in natural 
history, and in physical phenomena, which cannot fail to be produc- 
tive of important information respecting a region of the globe but 
little known. 

The contributors to this exploration, besides the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, were the University of Michigan, the Audubon Club of Chicago, 
and several private individuals interested in the advance of natural 
history. 

Mr. Xantus, whose explorations in Lower California have been 



REPORT OF THE .SECRETARY 41 

mentioned in several of the'previous reports, has been appointed by 
the government of the United 'States consul on the western coast 
of Mexico ; and in this new and interesting region, I doubt riot 
that, with unabated zeal, ho will be able to add much that is 
new and important to the different branches of natural history. To 
facilitate his labors in the way of making collections, the Institution 
furnished him with a full set of articles necessary for the most efficient 
prosecution of a work of this kind. 

Exclwjiges. — The system of exchanges still continues to render im- 
portant aid to the literary and scientific intercourse of this country 
with other parts of the world. It is not confined on this side of the 
Atlantic to the United States, but extends to Canada, the West In- 
dies, and South America. From the tabular statement given by Pro- 
fessor Baird, it appears that during the year 1SG2 there have been 
sent to foreign countries 1,203 packages, each containing, in most 
cases, a number of separate articles. These packages were enclosed 
in ll-i boxes, measuring in the aggregate upwards of 1,000 cubic feet, 
and weighing 28,930 pounds. The number of packages received in 
return for parties in this country, exclusive of those for the Institu- 
tion, was 2,105, which would on an average amount to upwards of 
10,000 articles. 

The Institution has received on its own account 5,035 articles, in- 
cluding those for the museum as well as for the library. 

The thanks of the Institution continue to be due to various })arties 
for their liberality in transporting boxes and packages free of charge, 
or in materially'' reducing the ordinary expenses. Those claiming 
especial mention are the North German Lloyds, between Bremen 
and New York, the Hamburg and Now York Steamship Line, the 
Cunard Line, the Panama Railroad, and the Pacific Mail Steamship 
Company, all of which transport Smithsonian packages free of charge. 
The Adams's Express Line transmits our packages partly at reduced 
rates and partly free. The magnitude of the favors conferred by 
these companies may be readily understood by a reference to the 
statement made above that the weight of the packages sent to Europe 
alone amounted, during the year 1862, to nearly 30,000 pounds. 

Library. — The library during the last year has continued steadily 
to increase, principally by exchanges, but also by purchase. By ex- 
changes there have been received 1,211 octavos, 348 quartos, and 52 
folios. Of parts of volumes in octavo 2 441, in quarto, 7GT, in folio, 



42 EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY, 

IGl, maps and charts, 55. making a total of 5,035 articles. In addi- 
tion to tbeso about 500 volumes have been purchased. 

A catalogue of transactions and proceedings of learned societies 
contained in the library of the Smithsonian Institution was published 
in July, 1858, and widely distributed, with a circular requesting that 
the deficiencies in the sets might be supplied, and other series be 
added to the collection from the duplicates in foreign libraries. This 
request has been so liberally complied with, and so many additions 
have been made to the collection, that a new edition of the catalogue 
has become necessary. This work is nearly ready for the press, and 
if the means of the Institution should permit, will be published during 
the coming year. 

The value of this library will be much enhanced by the publication 
of the Systematic Index to all the ai'ticles contained in the transac- 
tions and proceedings of the learned societies of the world, now in 
course of preparation under the supervision of a committee of the 
Royal Society of London. This index will include the titles of papers 
published by the academies of Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Nether- 
lands, Germany, Switzerland, France, Spain, Italy, and the States of 
North America. Some idea of the magnitude of the work, says Gen- 
eral Sabine, may be formed from the fact, that it begins with the year 
1800, and is brouglit down to the close of the year 18G0. The titles 
are all in quadruplicate and now form sixty-two manuscript volumes. 
It is expected that the index will be completed within the year 18G3. 
and that it will be published without unnecessary delay. It will be 
a w^ork of immense importance to all engaged in scientific pursuits ; 
it is difficult to estimate the amount of waste of time and labor of the 
student, arising from ignorance of what has already been achievedan 
the several departments of science; and none but one who has en- 
deavored in the investigation of perhaps a single subject to explore 
the contents of scientific periodicals can judge of the weariness and 
discouragements of the search. A copy of this work will undoubtedly 
find a place in each of the principal libraries of the United States, 
and with the distribution of the catalogue before-mentioned will give 
the American student ready reference and access through the Smith- 
sonian collection to all the important original papers on scientific sub- 
jects which have been published during the present century. 

Gallery of Art. — The only additions made to the Gallery of Art 
during the past year, have been a bust of Professor Benjamin Silli- 



EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 43 

man, senior, presented by liis son, and another of General William 11. 
Sumner, presented by George Wood, esq., of this city. 

The Indian gallery belonging to Mr, Stanley still continues on de- 
posit in the Institution. It is to be feared that by reat,on of the 
present condition of the country Congress will not tliinlc it advisable to 
purchase these characteristic illustrations of the aboriginal inhabitants 
of this continent, and it may perhaps become a subject of considera- 
tion with the Regents to make some provision for the preservation of 
the collection in its integrity, since it is possible that the owner may 
otherwise be obliged to dispose of it in parts, in order to meet his 
private pecuniary engagements. 

Lectures. — On account of the uncertainty of the times and the pre- 
occupation of the public mind no arrangements were made to furnish a 
course of public lectures on the part of the Institution for the winter 
of 186l-'G2; but the use of the lecture-room was granted, in accord- 
ance with previous custom, to an association consisting principally of 
persons connected with the several departments of government to 
give a course of lectures in aid of a benevolent object. The privi- 
lege was granted, as usual, on the condition definitely expressed, 
that subjects of sectarianism in religion and special politics should 
not be discussed. But in this case experience proved that it is inju- 
dicious to allow the use of the room in times of great public excite- 
ment for lectures over which the Institution has no immediate control. 

The association could not, or at least did not, observe the restriction 
as to subjects, and the whole course became an exposition of political 
principles which were then under public discussion both in the pa- 
pers of the day and on the floor of Congress. The evil of this was 
soon manifest in acrimonious attacks upon the Institution by mem- 
bers of Congress and editors of papers holding different political 
opinions. It was in vain to attempt to neutralize the effects of 
these attacks by stating the fact that the Institution ought not to be 
held responsible for the character of these lectures; the public could 
not be made to recognize the distinction between the lectures given 
under the immediate sanction of the Institution and those which were 
permitted to be delivered in the lecture-room under the direction of 
other parties.^ 

Upon these considerations and those mentioned in the last re- 
port as to the inexpediency of frequently opening the Smithsonian 
building at night in tlie present state of this city, I concluded, after 
the course of political lectures was terminated, to restrict the use of 



44 EEPCET OF TUE SECRETARY. 

the lecture-room exclusively to the lectures given under the immediate 
auspices of the Institution. This rule at first gave offence to some • 
of the friends of the Institution, and was considered very unjust by 
another association which desired to give a course of political lectures 
in opposition to those which had been previously delivered. It 
has since, however, been generally approved by the reflecting 
public, and, indeed, must commend itself to all who have studied 
the history of establishments under the direction of State or 
national governments. Unless they are strictly guarded against the 
intrusion of political influence, their permanency and usefulness can- 
not long be maintained. So much were the Regents composing the 
Board, at its first sessions, impressed with this fact, that, at one of 
their early meetings, they unanimously adopted the following sugges- 
tion of one of their committees, namely: 

"The party politics of the day, on which men differ so widely and 
so warmly, should not, your committee think, enter among the subjects 
treated of in any lecture or publication put forth under the sanction 
of the Institution. And they would deeply regret to see party tests 
and party wranglings obtrude themselves on the neutral grounds of 
science and education, endangering, as such intrusion surely Avould, 
the tranquillity of the Institution, disturbing the even tenor of its ac- 
tion, perhaps assaulting its welfare, and certainly contracting the 
sphere of its usefulness." 

I need not say to the gentlemen now present, some of whom have 
been Regents since the beginning, how strictly the spirit of this reso- 
lution has been observed ; notwithstanding the members of the Board 
from the two Houses of Congress are designedly elected from those 
holding opposite political opinions, in this hall the irritations of legis- 
lative discussion have been allayed or forgotten, and men of the 
most extreme political views have constantly met in this place as on a 
common ground of friendly sympathy, actuated apparently by no 
other feeling than the desire to guide and sustain the Institution in 
its mission of advancing and diffusing knowledge. 

To make up for the dissatisfaction which might be felt on account 
of the restriction which had been put upon the use of the lecture- 
room, it was thought advisable to give in the winter of 18G2-' G3 a m.ore 
extended series of lectures than had been given in the two preceding 
winters, but to confine them principally to courses on scientific and 
other subjects, which might be of service to those who desired actual 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

instruction rather than mere amusement; although the attendance 
■was not as large as in the case of the single lectures or the more ex- 
citing topics of the day, yet it was well maintained and comprised an 
attentive and decorous audience. 

The following are the courses which were delivered, namely: 

A course of six lectures, by Professor Daniel Wilson, of the University 
of Toronto, on "Unwritten History," embracing, Isi, Archcoolog}' ; 
2d, Physiology; 3d, The Lettered Races; 4tli, The Maritime Races; 
5th, The Origin of Civilization, and Gth, The Historic and Unhis- 
toric Races. 

A course of six lectures, by Professor Arnold Guyot, of Princeton Col- 
lege, on "The Unity of Plan in the System of Life, as exhibited in the 
characteristic ideas and mutual relations of the great groups of the 
vegetable and animal kingdom." 

A course of five lectures, by Professor E. N. Horsford, of the Law- 
rence Scientific School, Cambridge, on "Munitions of War." 

A course of six lectures, by Professor John Torrey, of New York, on 
"Artificial Light." 

A course of four lectures, by Professor Henry Wurtz, of New York, 
on " Gunpowder." 

Two lectures, by Dr. Solger, on "Ethnology." 

One lecture by Arthur W. Edwards, on "The Microscopq and its 
Revelations." 
The courses of lectures by Professors Wilson, Guyot, and Wurtz 

will be published in the appendix to the report for 18G2, and subse- 
quent years. 

Respectfullv submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
February, 1863. 



APPENDIX TO THE PiEPOPJ OF THE SECRETAHY. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, December 31, 1862. 

Sm: I beg leave herewith to present a report, for 1862, of the operations 
intrusted to my charge, namely, those relating to printing, exchanges, and 
natural history. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Prof Joseph IIenrv, L.L.D., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

PniNTING. 

In an appendix ■will be Ctund a list of the Avorks published in 1862 — the num- 
ber of p^gt's p inted, quarto and octavo, greatly exceeding that reported for 
1861. Several large works ai'e also in press and will be issued early in 1863. 

The following enumeration will show the number of pages printed during 
the year; 

Works completed and issued, quarto pages . . 1, 390 

octavo pages.. 1,226 

2,616 

Works still in press, quarto pages . . 1 80 

octavo pages . . 593 

773 

Total 3, 389 



A complete catalogue of all works published by the Institution up to June, 
1862, was issued during the year, and will be found included in the list of 
articles published. 

All the octavo publications of the Institution hitherto issued, and of which 
copies enough were on hiad, hxvo been arranged in a regular series, entitled 
" Siniihsonian Miscellaneous Collections," corresponding to the "Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge," and fi-Il four volumes of over seven hundred 
pages each. An accompanying list shows the contents of these several volumes. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTxVNT SECRETARY. 47 



EXCHANGES AND THANSPORTATION. 

The operations in the department of exchanges, as reported for ISGl, fallowed 
a conf^idernblc reduction below those of the previous year. During 1SG2, 
however, they have fully recovered their usual magnitude, and wliilc the receipts 
of books and parcels from abroad are nearly equal to the maximum of any 
previous year, the transmissions have been greater than usual. 

The thanks of the Institution and its correspondents continue to be due to 
various companies for their great liberality in transporting boxes and parcels 
free of chaige over their respeciive routes, thereby reducing very materially 
the expenses of the department of exchanges. The lines deserving of especial 
mention are the North German Lloyd, betAveen Bremen and New York; the 
Hamburg and Noav York steamship line; the Canard lines, running from New 
York; the Panama Railroad Company; the Pacific IMail Steamship Company; 
the Adams's Express Company ; tlie Hudson Bay Company, «Scc. The magni- 
tude of the favors thus conferred m:iy be readily understood by stating that a 
single transmission of packages to Germany during the year, through the North 
German Lloyd, consisted of 40 boxes of 4:i4 cubic feet, or over ten tons by 
measurement. 

The Institution is under many obligations for important services rendered in 
connexion with its exchanges and transportation, to the lion, lliram Barney, 
collector of customs in New Yoik, and his assistant, I\Ir. George Hillier. Also 
in San Francisco, to Mr. A. 13. Forbes, and Mr. Samuel Hubbard, of the Pa- 
cific Mail Steamship Company's service. The foreign agents of the Insti- 
tution, Dr. Felix Fliigel, of Leipsic; Gustavo Bossange & Co., Paris, and Mr, 
William Wesley, 2 Queen's lioad Passage, Paternoster How, London, continue 
to dischargs their duties Avith promptness and etficiency. 

The following tables exhiibit the statistics of the different branches of the 
system of exchanges : 

A. 

Receipt of hooks, S^t., hij cxcJiange in 1862. 

Volumes : 

Octavo 1,211 

Quarto 348 

Folio 52 

1,611 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets : 

Octavo 2, 441 

Quarto 767 

Folio 161 

3,369 

Maps and charts 55 

Total 5, 035 

Receipts in 1861 2, 886 

Excess in 1862 2, 149 



48 



EEPOET OF THE ASSISTAXT SECKETART. 



B. 

Table showing the statistics of the cxrlianqcs of the Smithsonian Institution 

in 1862. 



Agent and country. 


3 

3 


C 

a 
'A 




a 

'r. . 

c 3 


CO 

a> 


Dr. F. Flugel, Leipsic — 

Scandinavia. .....-.........._ .. 


1 

14 
C 
13 
37 
40 
262 
31 
16 


1 

22 
11 
23 
60 
52 
346 
47 
23 








Sweden 








Norway ........... ...... ... 






Denmark ....... .... .... .... 








Russia ...... ...... ...... .... .... 








Holland 








Germany . ...... .... .... .... .... 






Switzerland ..... ...... ...... .... 








Belgium . 
















Total 


420 


585 


46 


424 


12,780 






G. BossANGE &Co., Para — 

France . 


114 

64 
7 
4 


152 

86 

14 

5 






Italy 








Spain 








Portugal.... 
















Total 


18<) 


257 


20 


183 


5,356 






W. Wesley, London — 

Great Britain and Ireland 


166 


259 


16 


159 


4,700 






Keat of the world ...... ...... ...... .. 


71 


102 


32 


240 


6,000 






Grand total 


846 


1,203 


114 


1,006 


28,836 







. c. 

Addressed 2^(ickages received hy the Sinithsonian Institution from parties in 
America for foreign distribution in 18G2. 

Number of packages. 
Albany, N. Y. — 

New York State Agricultural Society 28 

Boston, Mass. — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 106 

Massachusetts Historical Society 1 

Massacliusetts School for Idiotic and Feeble-minded Youth. ... 3 

Dr. C. T. Jackson 1 



EEPOKT OF THE ASSISTANT SECEETARY. 49 



Ca??i6ridge, Mass. — 

Harvard College 12 

Prof. L. Agnssiz 50 

Prof. Asa Gray 30 

Prof. J. Marcou 3 

Cleveland, Ohio — 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 73 

Culumhus, OJtio — 

Ohio State Board cf Agriculture 12G 

Leo Lcsquereaux lo 

Dorclicster, ISIass. — 

• Dr. Jarvis 1 20 

Gcorgetoicn, D. C — 

Dr. L. Mackall 10 

Leon, N. Y.— 

T. X. Cheney 100 

Madison, Wise. — 

Historical Society of TViscousin 2 

State of Wiscousin 73 

Montpclicr, Yl. — 

State Library of Vermont 24 

Montreal, Can. — 

Prof. J. ^Y. DaAYSon 10 

Kcw Haven, Conn. — 

American Journal of Science 35 

Prof. J. D. Dana 15 

Isew York. — 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 82 

PJi ila del pi I ia , Pa . — 

Academy of Natural Sciences 190 

American Philosophical Society 19G 

Entomological Society of Philadelphia 12 

Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind , 36 

Dr. Isaac Lea 20 

Franklin Peale 3 

A. F. Ward 25 

William Sharswood 20 

Providence, R. 1. — 

State of Rhode Island 8 

»S^. Louis, Mo. — 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences S 

4 



EEPOKT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



Toron/o, Can. — 

Canadian Institute 4 

WuKhingfon, I). C. — 

'J\)po;^'rapliical Bureau 228 

United StatcH Coast Survey -50 

United States Senate 2rA) 

Gen. A. A. Humphreys 75 

Total 1,044 



D. 

Addressed packages received hi/ the Smithsonian Institution from Efiroj'c for 
dislrlbiUion in America, in 18G2. 



Albany, N. Y. 

Albany Institute,. 

Dudley Observatory 

Now York Ktato AfcricultunU Society 

New York .State Lil)rary 

New York State Medical Society 

New York State Univer^ity 

Professor James Hall 

Amhirkt, Mans. 
Amherst College 

Annapolis, Md. 
State Library - - 

Ann ArhoT, Mich. 

Detroit Observatory -- 

Dr. llruniiow - 

Mr. Watsuu 

Aiigusta, Me. 

State Library 

Baltimore, Md. 

Maryland Historical Society 

Peabody Institute 

Dr J. O. Morris 

Mr. Uhlcr 

Blackwell's Island, N. Y. 

New York City Lunatic Asylum 




3 

•} 

28 

21 

1 

2 

14 



Bogota, New Oranada. 

Sociedad de Naturalistas NeoGrena- 
diuos 



Boston, Mass. 

American Acad'y of Arts and Science 

American Statistical Association 

IJoston Society of Natural History.. 

I'owditch Library 

Historic Genealof^ical Society 

Massacbusetts Historical Society. 

Prison Disc pline Society 

Public Library 

State Library 

Boston Journal of Natural History . 

North American lieview 

F. Alg.M- 

Dr. IJrewer 

A.. A. Gould 

Dr. Vj. Jar vis 

Dr. Wilson , , 

Braltkboro' , Vl. 
Vermont Asylum for Insane 

Brunswick, Me. 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 

Mrs. Parker Cleaveland 

Burlington, Iowa. 

Historical and Genealogical Institute. 



Ill 

70 

I 
1 
1 
8 
ti 
1 
3 
1 
3 
2 
1 
1 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51 

D. — Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, Sfc. — Continued. 




Burlington, Vl. 

University of Vermont--...-.. ...... 

Cambridge, Mass. 

American Association for tlie Ad- 
vancement of Science .., 

Cambridge Observatory , 

Harvard College.. : 

Editor of Astronomical Journal 

Professor L. Agassiz 

G. P. Bond 

Professor H. J. Clarke 

Dr. B.A.Gould 

Profeasor Asa Gray 

Til. Lyman 

Profes.sor Jiilci* Marcou - 

C. E. Norton 

Professor B. Peirce-- ., 

E. Schubert 

J. E. Worcester 

Dr. J. Wyman 

Chicago, 111. 

Academy of Sciences..-. ..., 

Mechanics' Institute 

Col. J.D. Graham, U. S.A 

Chuquisaca, Bolivia. 

University of Chuquisaca.. — 

Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Astronomical Observatory 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

of Ohio 

Mercantile Library 

Observatory -- 

Western Acideiny of Science 

Editor of the Dental liegister of the 

West 

Professor Mitchell 

Clinton, N. Y. 

Dr. C. n. F. Peters 

Columbia, Mo. 
Geological Survey of Missouri 

Columbia, Pa. 

Professor S. S. Ilaldeman 

Dr. Melsbeimer 



32 

17 

15 

5 

39 

4 

3 

14 

13 

1 

3 

1 

8 

1 

2 

3 



Cdumbus, Ohio. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture.... 

State Lil^rary .. 

Leo Lesquereaux -..-. 

W. Sullivant 

Concord, N. 11. 

New Hampshire Asylum for Insane. 
New Hampshire Historical Society.. 
State Lil>rary ...... ....- 

Davenport, Iowa. 
Right Rev. Henry W. Lee 

Des Moines, Iowa. 
State Library ...... ...... ........ 

Detroit, Mich. 
Michigan State Agricultural Society 

Dorchester, Mass. 
Dr. E. Jarvis 

Easton, Pa. 

Dr. B. Clemens 

Professor J. H. Coffin... .- 

Erie, Pa. 

L. H. Olmsted 

Fall River, Mass. 

Niels Arnzcn 

Farmington, Conn. 
Edw. Norton 

Frankfort, Ky. 

Geologicil Survey of Kentucky 

State Library 

Mr. Shafiuer 

Gambier, Ohio. 
Kenyon College 



52 EEPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

D. — Addressed packages received hy tJie Smithsonian Institution, S^v. — Continned. 




Georgetown, D. C. 

Georgetown College 

Dr. A.Schott 

Hanover, N. H. 

Dartmouth College 

Ilarrishurg, Pa. 

Pennsylvauia State Luaatic Hospital. 
State Library . 

Hartford, Cmn. 

Hartford Society of Sciences 

Historical Society of Connecticut 

State Library 

Young Men's Institute 

Havana, Cuba. 

Observatoire Physique et Me'tdorolo 
gique 

Pieal Sociedad Economica .. 

Hudson, Ohio. 

Western Eeserve College.. ..... 

Indianapolis, Ind. 

Indiana Historical Society. ^ = .._ 

State Library 

loica Citg, Iowa. 

State of Iowa 

State University of Iowa 

Janesville, Wis. 
State Institution for the Blind 

Jefferson Cdy, Mo. 

Historical Society of Missouri 

State Library __ 

Kalamazoo, Mich. 

Aiylum for Insane 

Lancaster, Pa. 

Thomas C. Porter 



12 
2 



Lansing, Mich. 

Agricultural College 

State Library 

Lecompton, Kansas. 

State Library 

Leon, N. Y. 

T. Apoleon Cheney 

Louisville, Kg. 

Colonel Long 

Professor J. Lawrence Smith . 

Madison, Wis. 

Historical Society of Wisconsin ... 

Skandinaviske Presse-Forening 

State Library ■. 

Wisconsin State Agriciiltural Society. 

Montpdier, Vt. 
State Library. 

Montreal, Canada. 

Natural History Society 

Dr. Smallwood 

Nantucket, Mass. 

Miss Maria Mitchell 

New Bruyisiviek, N. J. 
Professor G. II. Cook 

Neiv Haven, Conn. 

American Journal of Science ... 

American Oriental Society 

Yale College 

W. P. Blake 

G. J. Brush 

Professor J . D. Dana .... 

Professor E Loomis ... 

Professor Siiliman 

Professor W. D. Whitney 

New York, N. Y. 

American Agriculturalist 

American Ethnological Society 



EEPOET OF THE ASSISTANT SECEETAEY. 



53 



D. — Addressed packages received bjjthc Smithsonian Institution, Sfc. — Continued 



Ntw York, N. Y. — Contiuued. 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society 

American Institute 

A-.tor Library . - 

Mercantile Library Associatioa. 

New York Historical Society 

New York Lyceum of Natural History. 
University of the City of New York.. 

NewY'ork Dental Journal 

Farmer and Mechanic 

Ntw York Journal of Pharmacy 

G. Boyd 

Charles L. Brace 

F. Delafield 

Dr. Draper _. 

Dr. D. 0. Eaton 

Thomas Egleston . 

Proteins ir Wolcott Gibbs -,, 

S. H. Grant 

H. Grinnell- _. 

Mr Harlan 

Chiirlts B. Norton 

Baron Ostcn-S tcken 

Professor Kedfield 

Professor Wynne 

Norwich, Conn. 

Mr. Rockwell 

Olympia, Waih. Ter. 

Territorial Library . .. 

Omaha, Nebraska. 

Territorial Library . . 

Oburgo, N. Y. 

Mr. Pumpelly 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

Academy of Natural Sciences.. 

American Philosophical Society 

Central High School of Philadelphia.. 
Franklin Institute 

Geological Society of Pennsylvania 

Geological Survey of Petmsylyania 

Historical Socivty of Pennsylvania 

Mercantile Library Association 

Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane.. 
Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind.. 
Wagner Free Institute .-, 



SO 
8 
i 
3 
1 

{;5 

8 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
13 
1 
1 
2 
2 
3 
7 
1 
1 



142 
77 
3 
4 
2 
1 
5 
1 
1 
1 
10 



Philadelphia, Pa. — Continued. 

American Journal of Dental Science 

Dental Cosmos 

John Cassia . ...... 

F: Clay 

Dr. ED. Cope 

E. Durand ._ 

Dr. Hermann 

H. S. Tanner 

Professor P. L. Otto Koehrig 

Dr. Isaac Lea, 

Dr. John Leconte 

Dr. Jos ph Leidy 

George Ord , 

F. Peale 

William Sharswood 

Mrs. A. E. Thomas 

Proft-s.ior Wa.gner. 

Mr. Welherell 



Portland, Me. 



Neal Dow 



Princdcn, N. J. 

College of New Jersey ..... 

Professor A. Guyot 



Providence, R. I. 



Brown University 

Rhode Island Historical Society. 
State Library ._ 



Rio Janeiro, Brazil. 

Instituto Historico Geographico Bra 

siliero .. 

Mr. Liais _ 

Rochester, N. Y. 
Hon. Lewis H.Morgan 

Rock Island, III. 
Dr. John Rittles 

Sacramento, Cal. 

State Library.. 

Salem, Mass. 
Essex Institute . 



54 EEPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

D. Addressed packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, Sfc. — Continued. 



Son Francisco, Cal. 

California Academy of Natural Sciences 
Geological Survey of California.- 



St. Louis, Mo. 

Deutsche Inst, fiir Bef. von Wiss. 

Kunst und Gewerbe 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 

St. Louis University — 

Dr. George Bernays .-.., 

Dr. George Eagelmanu 

Dr. Hammer - - 

Dr. Haven - - 

Dr. Albert C. Koch 

Dr.B. F. Shumard 

G.C. Swallow 



Santiago, Chile. 



Observatory 

University of Chile. 



Springfield, 111. 



State Library 

Rev. L. P. Esbjorn 



Stockton, Cal. 
Asylum for Insane 

Toronto, Canada West. 

Board of Agriculture of Upper Canada. 
Canadian Institute .- 



Trenton, N. J. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey. 
State Library .--... 



Utica, iV. Y. 

American Journal of Insanity.... , 
New York State Lunatic Asylum.. 

Valparaiso, Chile. 

Dr.T. A.Eeid 



31 
1 



3 

2 

1C5 



Washington, D. C. 

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 

Library of Congress 

National Observatory , 

Surgeon General U. S. Army 

Topographical Bureau 

Trigonometrical Survey 

U. S. Coast Survey 

U. S. Patent Office 

War Department ..--- 

Colonel Abert 

Professor A. D. Bache — 

Professor S. F. Baird _ 

W. D. Breckenridge ............ 

Maj or Emory .. -. .... 

J. Ferguson - -...-- 

T.Gill 

Captain J. M.Gilliss,U. S.N 

Captain H. J. Hartstene, U. S. N 

T. Hitz 

Professor W. E. Jlllson 

Professor W. K. Johnson. 

J. C. G. Kennedy 

Lieutenants. P. Lee 

F. B. Meek 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 

G. W. Riggs 

H.R.Schoolcraft 

Hon. W. H. Seward 

W.Smyth 

Prof. W. Stimpson 

flon. Charles Sumner 

H. Ulke 



Wakrvillc, Me. 
Waterville College 



Westchester, Pa. 
Dr. W. Darlington 

West Point, N. Y. 
Professor Bailey ... 



Worcester, Mass. 

American Antiquarian Society 
State Lunatic Hospital 



York, Pa. 
Rev. Mr. Zeigler 



Total of addresses - 273 

Total of parcels 2,111 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 



MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS. 

As might have been expected, the receipts of specimens of natural history 
during the year past have been materially curtailed. The entire number of 
donations in 1862 amounted to 124. The number for 1861 was 157, while that 
for 1860 was 404. Much of interest has, however, been received from different 
quarters, and the aggregate would have been more considerable if all the col- 
lections made in the Hudson Bay region by Mr. Kennicott, and other gentle- 
men, had not been kept back in consecjuence of the Indian outbreaks in Minne- 
sota during the year, 

Mr. Kennicott spent the spring and summer of 1861 at Fort Yukon, on the 
Yukon river, making large collections of specimens. He wintered on the Rocky 
mountains, at La Pierre's house, and made a visit to Fort Simpson early in the 
spring. News received there from home determined him to return to the United 
States, and he reached Fort Garry the beginning of September, arriving at 
Chicago in October, after an absence of three years and a half. A detailed 
report of his expedition will be prepared by himself, and submitted hereafter. 

The gentlemen of the Hudson's Bay Company, of whom mention has here- 
tofore been made as aiding him in every way, have continued their kind offices. 
To Governor Dallas, present governor of the Hudson's Bay Company, Gover- 
nor Mactavish, Mr. Bernard R. Ross, Mr. Lawrence Clark, Mr. R. i\Iac Farlane, 
Mr. W. L. Hardisty, Mr. James Lockhart, Mr. 0. P. Gaudet, Mr. James Flctt, 
and others, the thanks of the Institution are very especially due for such aid to 
Mr. Kennicott as ensured the success of his expedition, and without which 
he could have accomplished little or nothing. 

To most of the gentlemen above referred to acknowledgments have been 
made in previous reports for valuable contributions of specimens. Collections 
made by them in 1862, having been packed with those of Mr. Kennicott, have 
not yet arrived, but are expected early in the year 1803, as, at the last advices, 
they had reached St. Paul. 

Mr. John Xantus, so well known on account of his scientific researches in 
California, in connexion with the Institution, has just entered into a new and 
entirely unexplored field, promising the most important results. Having been 
appointed United States consul at Manzanillo, he left New York on the 11th of 
December, and is doubtless now at his post. With their usual liberality, exer- 
cised so often before in the interest of science and the Smithsonian Institution, 
the Panama Railroad Company and the Pacific Mail Steamship Company gave 
free passage to him and his extensive outfit. 

IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIMENS. 

Much progress has been made by the various gentlemen mentioned ou page 
62 of the last report in identifying and labelling the collections of the Institu- 
tion. It will not be long before the greater portion Avill be thoroughly worked 
p, and a general distribution of duplicates accomplished No new collections 
)t' any importance have been given out, although J\Ir. Cope expects to take up 
the North American saurians belonging to. the Institution with the view of pre- 
paring a report on the subject. 

Dr. Allen having completed the examination of the American bats intrusted 
to him, as far as his professional engagements would allow, has returned the 
specimens, and deposited a report on the subject, nearly finished, and to be 
hereafter completed by him. Dr. Wood has also returned a portion of the col- 
lection of Myriapoda. Dr. Slack has sent back the collection of monkeys, with a 
catalogue of the collection. Mr. George N. Lawrence has labelled the enthx 



56 EEPOET OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETAEY. 

collection of liumming Ijird.-?, amounting to over 150 species. Professor Agassiz 
Las detennined and returned the collection of Echini. 

Mr. Gill has continued his examinations of the fishes of Cape St. Lucas, col- 
lected by Mr. Xantus, and published many new species from them. 



DISTRIBUTIOrJ OF SPECIMENS. 

The distribution of duplicate specimens has been continued as fully as time 
and opportunity would allow. Several large collections of mammals, birds, and 
eggs have been sent off, together with a considerable number of sets of marine 
shells. Dr. Foreman has been engaged for some time in making up the duplicate 
Unionidae into series, of which about twenty sets will soon be ready. 



WORK DONE IN THE MUSEUM. 

The mounted mammals and birds vvhich occupied the Museum Hall at the 
beginning of the year have all been identified, and to most of them neatly writ- 
ten labels have been afHxed. This portion of the work will be completed as 
soon as the clerk assigned to the duty can accomplish it. All the specimens 
have been carefully examined, and those attacked by insects have been re- 
moved and baked or exposed to the vapor of benzine. A few skins have 
been mounted of species possessing a particular interest. 

"The collection of skulls has been cleaned and rearranged in the southeast gal- 
lery. The series of rocks, and in part that of minerals, have been placed on 
their proper shelves. Nothing further has been done with the shells, the col- 
lections in this department not having been returned by the gentlemen having 
them in charge. 

All the miscellaneous boxes of specimens in the Institution have been un- 
packed and their contents assorted and distributed. All the crude material in 
the building has thus been put into condition for examination, and given out to 
investigators for arraugcmeut, with the exception of a portion of the fossils and 
the general ethnological collection. These will, however, all be nnpacked and 
examined in the ensuing year. 

The progress of work upon the collections already in the Institution at the 
beginning of the year was much interfered with by the necessity of receiving a 
large number of specimens formerly belonging to the National Institute, and 
sent from the Patent Oliice (where they had been stored) by the Commissioner 
of Patents. Much of this material Avas in an exceedingly damaged condition, 
requiring instant attention and much labor to preserve it in even tolerable con- 
dition. 

The cataloguing of specimens in the record books of the Institution has been 
carried forward during the year by the insertion of nearly 10,000 additional 
entries, many of them covering each a number of specimens. The present ag- 
gregate of entries is about 75,000, embracing at least 500,000 or half a million 
of specimens. When it is remembered that none of the plants, and insects, and 
but few of the fishes and invertebrates, have yet been recorded in this way, 
some estimate may be formed of the extent and value of the material for re- 
search in charge of the Smithsonian Institution. 



EEPOKT OF THE ASSISTANT SECGETARY. 



57 



Tabic showing the total numher (f entries on tlie record hool<.s of tJic Smith- 
sonian collection at the end of the years 1S61 and 1862. 



Skeletons and skulls — 

Mammals -._. 

Birds 

Reptiles ..^..--.. 

Fishus 

Eggs of birds 

Crustaceans 

Mollusks 

Radiates 

Fossils 

Minerals. 

Ethnological specimens 
Annelids 

Total 




1862. 



4,750 
5.900 

2(5,157 
G,31l 
4,925 
C,COO 
1,287 

10,000 

2,675 

2.100 

3, 725 

825 

109 



74,764 



LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN 18G2: 

Agassiz, Professor L. — Skins and eggs of birds from Labrador : specimens of 

Ilaeinulon. 
Ahlmrsi, James. — Bat and crustacGans from South America. 
Barnston, George. — Birds, fishes, &c., from Lake Superior. 
Beadle, Rev. E. R. — Box of minerals. 

Beitel, C. G. — Minerals and furnace slags from Pennsylvania. 
Bcrthoud, Dr. E. L. — Minerals, fossils, and skin of Lago/jus Icucurus, Pike's 

Peak. 
Bertolet, Dr. P. G. — Sections of wood of trees of Pennsylvania. 
Bickmore, A. J. — Living Vhceton Jlavicauda, from Bermuda. 
Black7nan, Mr. — Series of specimens of prairie chicken or pinnated grouse, 

from youngest chick to adult. Also skins of other birds, insects, eggs, 

&:c., from Illinois. 
Bland, Thomas. — West Indian shells. 
Brandt, IT. — Nests and eggs from Fort Riley. 
Brush, G. J. — Box of minerals. 

Buckncr, Dr. — Set of m.odels of edible fungi, prepared at Hildburgbausen. 
Cardcza, Dr. — Series of choice minerals from Pennsylvania. 
Carlton, U. S. A., General J. H. — Skull of rattlesnake, from New Mexico. 
Carothcrs, Rev. A. G. — Collection of reptiles fi-om Martinique. 
Chajnnan, N. IT. — Box of birds' nests, from Ohio. 
Cochran, T. G.— Eggs of Night Heron. 
Cook, Prof. George TI. — Fossils of Ngav Jersey. 
Cooper, TT «^. — Fossils from the Isthmus of Panama. Cast of Megalonyx 

bones. 
Coupcr, W. — Skins of Aegiothus, from Canada. 
Cowlcs, P. M. — Insects from Cumberland Gap. 
Dawson, Prof. J. W. — Postpliocene fossils, from Canada. 
Dow, Captain J. M. — Mammals, birds, and other animals, from Nicaragua. 
Skins of birds, and various alcoholic specimens, collected at sea between New 

York and Panama, via Cape Ilorn. 



58 EEPOET OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Eaton, Dr. H. K. — Specimens of Gryllotalpa. 

Edwards, A. M. — Mounted infusoria from Wasliington Territory. 

Egleston, Thos. — Minerals from Massachusetts. 

Elliot, D. G. — Four skins of European birds. 

Feilncr, Lieut. John. — Mammals, birds, &c., from Fort Crook, California. 

Foreman, Dr. E. — Fossil tracks of animals from Maryland. 

Forns, R. M. — Two skins of Chordeilcs minor, Cuba. 

Geoffroy, Mons. — Collections of birds from Bogota. 

Gibbs, George. — Shells and fossils from Washington Territory 

North American antiquities. (Deposited.) 

Gilliss, U. S. N., Captain J. M. — Package of poisoned arrows brought from 

the Amazon by Lieutenant Plerndon ; Coral from Agatha's Bank. 
Goss, B. F. — Nests and eggs of birds, from Kansas. 
Gundlac/i, Dr. J. — Box of Cuban birds. 

GurJcy, R. R. — Golden eagle in the flesh, shot near Washington. 
Habcl, Dr. H. — Minerals from New York Island. 
Hayden, Dr. F. V. — Fossils from Maryland and New Jersey. 
Hayes, Dr. I. L — Esquimaux dresses and other curiosities ; Birds, mammals, 

and rocks, from North Greenland. 
Heermann, Dr. A. L. — 130 species and 250 specimens of Humming birds; Vireo 

barbatuJa, from Florida. 
Hepburn, James. — Birds' eggs, from Pacific coast of North America 
Hubbard, Samuel. — Thirty species of Californian fishes. 
Hunt, U. S. A., Captain E. B. — Hippa, from Key West. 
Kennicoit, R. — Box of eggs and skins of mammals and birds from the Yukon 

river. 
Lawrence, George N. — HylopJiilus, irom Guatemala; Mounted Macro rhamphus 

scolop)aceus. 
Lea, Isaac. — Box of Unionidcs. 

Leonard, J. — Minerals from the Rocky Jfountains. ^ 

Leicis, James — Large collection of land and fresh-water shells of United States, 

including selected series of Paludina. 
Lewis, Joseph S. — Coleopterous insects, from United States. 
Lowerce, T., per J. J. Major. — Pityophis, from Guadalaxara. 
M'Kenzie, J. — Birds from Moose Factory. 
Major, J. J. — Eggs of Pandion, from the Similkameen. 
March, W. T. — Series of birds of Jamaica. 
Matthews, G. F. — Fossil shells of New Brunswick. 
Mceh, F. B. — Fossils from Maryland and New Jersey. 
Mendenhall, K/rh. — Eggs of birds and fossils of Indiana. 
Moses, Dr. S. G. — Living Duck-Hawk, hatched in Connecticut. 
Newton, Alfred. — Thirty species of eggs of Arctic European birds. 
Neiv York; PancLma R. R. Co. — Series of fossils from Isthmus of Panama. 
Palmer, Dr. Edward. — Shells from Acapulco and San Diego. 
Paris ; Mus. d'JEst. Nat. — Series of serpents from vai'ious localities. 
Parkinson, D. F. — Mammals, birds, &c., from North California. 
Pease, W. H. — Shells from the Sandwich Islands. 

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. — Specimens o£ Rissa and Otus. 
Pierce, Warren. — Ascllus, from Ohio. 
Poey, Prof. F.— Fishes of Cuba. 
Ried, Dr. A. — Skeletons, skulls, and antiquities of Patagonian and Araucaniau 

Indians. 
Pk.emJiardt, Dr. J. — Box of European birds. 
Ross, B. R. — Bale of large skins fi-om Prince Rupert's Land. 
Russell, Dr. W. H. — Seven species of Himalayan pheasants. 



EEPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59 

Samuels, E. — Scries of infusorial slides. 

Schenectady ; Union College. — Box of minerals. 

Schiffmann, R. — Insects from Missouri. 

Schmid, Dr. H. E. — Reptiles, &c., in alcohol, from Japan; also living Megalo- 

batracJius, or Giant Salamander. 
Sclater, P. L. — Seventy-five species of Jamaican birds. 
Scott-, Ansel. — Indian relics from Bradford county, Pennsylvania. 
SimjJson, J< s. — Copper spear head and other relics. 
Stone, C. J. — Box of minerals. 

Swan, James G. — Skins of birds, crustaceans, shells, &c.. Straits of Fuca. 
Swift, D. — Minerals and Indian remains from Pennsylvania. 

Thoynsen, J. H. — Skeleton of sperm-whale porpoise, Kantucket; EcJdnaracJirus, 
from New Bedford. 

Tolman, J. W. — Birds' eggs from Illinois. 

Totten, General Joseph G. — Coral from the Tortugas. 

Totten, Colonel. — Fossils from line of Panama railroad. 

Tryon, George W. — Type specimens of new shells; box of Unionidce. 

Van Cortlandt, Dr. — Fishes from the Ottawa river. 

Washington ; National Institute. — Four cartloads of miscellaneous specimens. 

Whittlesey, E.—Cocd from Ohio. 

Williamson, Sergeant J. J., (company E, 2d New York artillery.) — Snowy 
owl, shot near "Washington. 

Willis, J. R. — Shells, fishes, birds, eggs, &;c., of Nova Scotia. 

Wingate, J. D. — Box of Jlelires, from Pennsylvania. 

Wood, Dr. William. — Living Duck Hawk, from Connecticut; also skins of birds, 
eggs, and Indian remains. 

Woodworth, Dr. J. M. — Shells, eggs, &c., from Iowa. 

Wright, W. W. — Fossil wood, found five miles from Alexandria. 

Wurdcmann, W. — Shells of Florida, (deposited.) 

Wyrick, David. — Bones of man and animals from ancient graves in Ohio. 



LIST OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS DURING 1862. 

Discussion of tlie Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made at the 
Girard College Observatory, Pliiladelpliia, in the years 1840 — 1845, by A. D. 
Bache, LL.D. First Section, Part II. Investigation of the Solar-Diurnal 
Yariatious of the Magnetic Declination and its Annual Inequality, June, 1862. 
4to., pp. 28. 

Discussion, &c. First Section, Part III. Investigation of the Lunar Effect 
on the Magnetic Declination. June, 1862. 4to., pp. 16. 

Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations, &c., continued. 
Second Section, comprising Parts IV, V, VI. Horizontal Force, Investiga- 
tion of the Ten or Eleven Year Period and of the Disturbances of the Hori- 
zontal Component of the Magnetic Force; Investigation of the Solar-Diurnal 
Variation and of the Amrual Inequality of the Horizontal Force; and of the 
Lunar Effect on the Same. November, 1862. 4to., pp. 76. 

Monograph of the Diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithsonian 
Institution by II. Loew. Part I. Edited, Avith additions, by R. Osten Sacken. 
April, 1862. 8vo., pp. 246, with fifteen wood-cuts and two plates. 

Synopsis of the described Lcpidoptera of North America. Part 1. Diurnal 
and Crepuscular Lcpidoptera; Compiled for the Smithsonian Institution by 
John G. Morris. February, 1862. 8vo., pp. 376, and thirty wood-cuts. 

Museum Miscellanea, or Aids to the Labelling, Cataloguing, and Recording 
of Specimens. 8vo., 1854 — 1862, pp. 48. This contains — 

1. Abbreviations of names of States and Terrilorics of North America, for labelling in- 
Bet ts, shells, &c. 

2. A series of small figures, from 1 to 1643. 

3. A series of medium figures, from 1 to 2747. 

4. A series of large figures, from 1 to 2599. 

5. Blank check list of specimens. 

Catalogue of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, corrected to June, 
1 862. 8vo., pp. 52. 

List of Foreign Institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 1863. 8vo., pp. 40. . 

Results of Meteorological Observations made under the Direction of the 
United States Patent Oilice and the Smithsonian Institution, from the year 
1854 to 1859, inclusive; being a Report of the Commissioner of Patents to tl'e 
Senate, at the first session of the 36tli Congress. Vol. I. 1862. 4to., pp. 
1270. (Vol. II is in press.) 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
shov/ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1861. 8vo., pp. 464. 

WORKS PARTLY PRINTED IN 1862, DUT NOT COMPLETED. 

Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Sir Francis Leopold 
]\rClintock, R. N. Made on board the Arctic searching yacht "Fox," in 
Baffin's Bay and Prince Regent's Inlet, in 1857, 1858, and 1859. Reduced 
and discussed by Charles A. Schott, Assistant U. S. Coast Survey. 4to., with 
one Map. 

Notices of Ancient Mining on Lake Superior. By Charles Whittlesey. 4to. 

Check List of Minerals, with their Symbols. Prepared for the Smithsonian. 
Institution by T. Egleston, Jr. 8vo. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS. 61 

Synonymical List of the Coleoptcra of North America, with Descriptions of 
New Species. By John L. Lc Conte, M. D. Svo. 

Bibliography of American Conchology. By Vf. G. Binney. Svo. 
Synopsis of North American Air-breathing- Shells. By W. G. Binney. Svo. 
Synopsis of North American Vivipara, &c. By W. G. Binney. Svo. 

WORKS CONTAINED IN THE FOUR VOLUMES OF MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneoug Collections. 1862. Vol. I, 8vo., pp. 732. Contains: 
(19.) Directions for Meteorological Oi)servations ; (87.) Coffin, Psychrometrical Tables--; 
and (31 ) GcTOX, Meteorological and Physical Tables. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1862. Vol. II, 8vo. pp. 692. Contains : 
(27.) Booth axd Morfit, Recent Improvements in Chemical Arts; (115.) Proceediogs 
Board Piegents Smith.-ouian Institution in relation to the Electra-magnetic Telegraph ; (53 ) 
Stanley, Catalogue Portr.Jts North American Indians ; (lOS ) P>aird, Catalogue of North 
American Biids ; (19.) Baird and Girard, Catalogue of North American Reptiles — Ser- 
pents: (128.) ("heck List Shei Is, North America; (31.) Directions for Collecting; (137 ) 
Circular to -OtJficers H. B. Co. ; (139.) Instructions for collecting Nests and Eggs; North 
American Grasshoppers ; and North American Shells ; (138.) Morgan, Circular respecting 
Relationship. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Colleclions Vol. Ill, 8vo., pp. 76G. Contains: (102.) 
OsTEN Sacken, catalogue Diptera North America; (118) Motinjs, Catalogue Described 
Lepidoptera North Ameiica ; (136.) Lb Contb, Classitication Coleoptera, I ; (117.) Cata- 
logue Pub'.ications of Societies in Smithsonian Library. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. IV, Svo, pp. 752. Contains: (134.) 
H.AGEN, Synopsis of North American Neuroptera, and (133.) Mjeris, Synopsis of North 
American Lepidoptera . 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR 18G2. 



BRITISBC AMERICA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


•a 

3 

3 


•a 

3 

'5) 

c 
o 


.Ef 


c 

a 

c 


6 
2 


Acadia College 

Baker J C 


Wolfville, Nova Scotia. 


45 06 

4J 08 


64 25 
73 00 


Feet. 
95 

""Ho' 

200 

12 

57 
200 

tios 

270 

'i,'ooo 
lis 


A 

T 

T 

15 T . . . . 
B.T R.. 

T. R.... 

T. 

A 

A 

T 

A 

B.T. R.. 

A 

T 

T 

A 


10 


Stanbridge, Canada liast 


12 


Clarke, Lawrence, jr 

Craigie, Dr. W 

Delaney, Edward M. J .... 







4.3 l.'i 
47 S5 

64 00 

56 02 

45 30 

44 59 

61 51 

43 39 
51 15 

43 09 

47 50 
49 50 

45 33 


79 57 
52 40 

124 00 


19 


Coloni,ilBuilding,St. John's, New- 
foundland. 

Fort Norman, Hudson's Bay Ter- 
ritory. 

Little Whale River, Hudson's Bay 
Territory. 


7 
5 




11 


Hall, Archibald, M. D.... 
Ilcnslev, Rev. J M .... ) 

Everett, Prof. J. 1) ( 

Kirby, Rev. VV. W 

Magnetic Observatory.... 
Mackenzie, John 

Phillips, H 


73 36 

64 07 

131 25 

79 31 

80 45 

79 20 
85 05 

84 00 

73 38 


12 


King's College, Windsor, Nova 
8cotia. 

Fort Simpson, Hudson's Bay Ter- 
ritory. 

Toronto, Canada West 

Moose Factory, Hudson's Bay Ter- 
litory. 

Niagara, Canada West 

Michipicoton, Canada West 

Kenogumissee, Hudson's Bay Ter- 
ritory. 

St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada E.. 


3 

4 

12 
5 

3 


Kankin, Colin 

Richards, Thomas 

Smallwood, Dr. Charles.. 


8 
7 

9 



CALIFORNIA. 



Name of observer. 



Ayres, W. O., M. D 

Belcher, W. C 

Dunkum, Mrs. Elizabeth S, 
Hays, VV. W., M. U 

Logan, Thomas M,M. D., 

Smith. M.D 

Whitlock, James H 



Station. 



San Francisco. 
Mary.sville .... 

Honcut 

Presidio of San 

Francisco. 
Saeraniento. .. 
Spanish Ranchc 
Meadow Valley 





6 

S 


o 
3 




c 


County. 


J3 


c 




s 
















S 


tp 






^ 


^ 


a 


c 




" 1 


o ; 


Feet. 




San Francisco. 


37 48 


123 27 


130 


A 


Yuba 


39 29 


121 30 


80 


n. T. R.. 


Yuba 


39 25 


131 30 





T. R 


San Francisco 


37 48 


123 26 


150 


A 


Sacramento. .. 


38 35 


131 28 


41 


A 


Pluinas 


39 56 


120 40 


3,700 


B T. R.. 


Plumas 


40 20 


120 15 


3,700 


B.T.R.. 






A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrorae- P signifies Psychromoter. 

ter, and Rain Gauge. R signifies Rain Gauge. 

B signifies Barometer. N signitres No instrument. 

T signifies Thermometer. t Above Lake Ontario. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



G3 



COLORADO. 



Name of observer. 



Ellis, Dr. AVm. T.... 
Slanton, Frederick J 



Station. 



Mountain City. 
Denver City. .. 



County. 



Arapahoe , 
A'rapalioe , 



105 -10 



Feet. 

8,U00 



Case, Jarvis 

Harrison, Benjamin F 

Hunt, Rev. Daniel 

Johnston, Prof. John. 
Learni'd, Dvvighi W . 
Leavenworth, D. C. 
kockwell, I harlotte. 
Yeonians, William H 



Canton .. . .. 
Wallingford . 

Ponifrct 

Middletown. 
Plymouth. .. 
Niw Haven, 
t'oli-brook. . 



Columbia Tolland. 



Hartford 

New Haven. 
Windham . .. 
Middlesex .. 
Litehtield .. 
\'ew Haven. 
Litehfield. .. 



42 00 
41 27 
41 52 
41 32 
41 40 

41 18 

42 CO 
41 40 



73 00 
72 50 
72 23 

72 39 

73 03 

72 56 

73 (6 
72 42 



700 
133 
587 
175 



DISTEICT OF COLUMBIA. 


MacKee, Rev. C. B 

Smithsonian Institution.. 


. 1 Georgetown . . . 
.1 Washington .. 


Washington. .. 
Washington . .. 


38 54 
38 53 


77 03 
77 01 


""go" 


T. R.... 
A 


12 
12 


CONNECTICUT. 



T.R 
A. . 
A. . 
A. . 
T. . 
B.T 
T. . 
T. ., 



DAKOTA. 



Hill,G D , I 

Lawson, George W > 

Williams, Herbert G ) 



42 51 



FLORIDA. 





Kpy West. ... 

Magnetic Ob- 
servatory, Key 
Webt. 


Monroe 

Monroe 


24 33 
24 ;.3 


81 28 
81 ■ii 


16 
6 


R. T. R.. 
G.T.P.. 


12 


Ferguson, G- F. ) 

OltmannSjJ.G I 


5 



ILLINOIS. 



Aldrich, Verry 

Babcook, E 

Bacon, E E 

Ballon, N E .M D 

Bandeher, Adolphus F.,jr.. 

Blanchard, Orestes A 

Breed, M A 

Brendel, Frederick, M.D .. 

Brookes, Samuel.... 

Brj'ant, C. 11 

Byrne, Arthur M > 

Roe, James H., and others S 
Cobleigh,Rev.Nels.E ,D D 

Crandon, Frank 

Dudley, Timothy 

Grant, John 7 

Grant, Mi?s Ellen j 

Griffing, Henry 

Little, J. Thomas 

Livingston, Prof Win.... 

Mead, S. IV, .M. D 

Meeker, Ralph E 

Merwin, Mrs. Emily H . . . . 

O'Donoghue, John 

Olds, Warren 

Patrick. Dr. John J ) 

Baker, Nathan T ] 

Riblet, J. H 

Rogers, O. P. and J. S 

Tolman, James W 



Tiskilwa 

Riley 

Willow Creek 
Sandwich .... 

Highland 

Eliiiira 

Peoria 

Peoria 

Chicago 

North Prairie., 
Chicago 

Lebanon 

Batavia 

Jacksonville. . . 

Manchester . . . 

Willow Hill.... 

DLxon 

G;ilesburg . .... 

Augusta 

Dongola 

Ottawa 

Chicago 

Albany 

Belleville 



Pekin 

Marengo 

Winnebago De- 
pot. 



Bureau... 
Mc Henry. 

Lee 

De Kalb. . 
Madison, . 

Stark 

Peoria .... 
Peoria .... 

Cook 

Knox . ... 

Cook 



St. Clair. 
Kane . .. 
Morgan . 

Scott.... 



Jasper .... 

Lee 

Knox 

Hancock . 
Union. ... 
I, a Salle... 

Cook 

Whiteside. 
St. Clair. .. 



Tazewell... 
McHeiiry. .. 
Winnebago. 



41 15 

42 n 
41 45 
41 31 
38 45 

41 12 
40 38 

40 43 

42 00 

41 08 



3h 37 
41 .52 
39 30 



39 CO 
41 45 



40 10 

37 26 

41 20 
41 54 

41 40 

38 29 

40 36 

42 14 
42 17 



89 66 
b8 20 

88 56 
t8 30 

89 46 

90 15 
89 46 

89 30 
87 30 

90 06 



550 

760 

1,040 

575 



512 
460 



89 56 
88 20 

90 06 



88 CO 

89 31 



91 00 

89 21 

88 47 

87 38 

90 16 

90 06 

89 45 

88 38 

89 12 



500 
636 
676 



•203 



500 
6.^)0 
600 



842 

soo 



N 

T.R .. 

N 

T R... 
B.T. P 
T.R... 
T.R... 

A 

T 

N 

B.T... 

B.T.R. 

T 

T.R... 

A 

N , 

N 

A , 

T.P.R 

T 

T.R... 
B.T. .. 
N 

B.T ... 

B.T.R 
B.T.R 
B.T.R 



•Above low-water mark at Quincy. 



64 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
INDIANA. 



Name of observer. 



Anderson, Hpnry II.. 

Bullock, J. T 

Cliappcllsmiih, John 

Dawi-on, WiJliani 

Dayton, James H . . . , 

Haines, J(jlni 

Larrabee, William 11 
Ram bo, Edward 15 .. 



Station, 



Rockville..... 

S^'lb.vville ... 

Cadiz 

South Bend... 
Richmond. ... 
G:e;ncaslle . . 
Eichmond. ... 



County. 



Parke 

Shelby .... 

Posey 

li.iiiy 

.-'t. Joseph. 
Wayne .... 
Iu;nan] . .. 
Wayne ... 



3G 00 
39 00 
as 08 

4! ;i9 

o9 30 
39 47 



87 CO 
67 00 
fc7 50 
?.-, iJO 
£6 07 
S4 59 
to 47 
6-1 47 



Feet. 

1,100 

"slK 

1,CG0 

eoo 



800 
800 



N... 
A... 
T.U. 
T.H. 

i;.T. 

i\ ... 

T.R. 



IOWA. 



Real, Mrs. Celia..... 

Beilic'l), n. 11 ) 

Dunwoi/dy, Wm. P ) 

Collin, Pioi" Aluuzo . ..... 

Deeriiig, D S 

Doyle, L. II. 

I arnsworth, P. J., M. D. . . . 

Foster, Suel 

Ilorr. A.^a, M. D 

Iludton, A T., M.D 

Leonard, Wm. P 

BieCouncl, Townsend 

Rici-'oy, Franklin, M. D.. > 
McCoy, Mi;.s Elizabeth.. \ 

McCrendy, D.miel 

milliard, Andrew J 

Parvm, Prot'. Theodore S .. 

Sheldon, Daniel 

UlTord, kev. John 

WhLaion, Alex. Camp 



Grove Hill.... 

Davenport. .. . 

Mount Vernon 
Independence 

Waterloo 

Lyons 

fliuscalinc. ... 

Dubuque 

Lyons 

Kossuth 

Pleasant Plain 

Algona 

Fort Madison. 
Sioux Ciiy. ... 
Iowa City . ... 
Forestville ... 
Muscatine. ... 
Independence 



Bremer. 

^cott... 



Linn 

Uuciianan. .. 
Uiack liawk. 

Cliiilon 

Mu-eutine. .. 
Oiibiiqiiu .... 

Clinton 

Lies Moines.. 
JeJlerson .... 

Kossuth 

Lee 

Woodbury. ,. 

Johnson 

Delaware.... 
Muscatine. .. 
Buehaniin . ,. 



4-3 45 
41 30 
43 00 



43 -M 
41 50 

41 lO 

42 30 
41 50 
41 00 

41 07 

43 01 

40 37 

42 3J 



42 40 

41 25 

42 25 



67 12 

90 40 

91 00 



92 31 
to 10 
92 00 

90 52 
CO 10 

91 13 
£4 54 

94 04 

91 23 
96 27 



91 50 
9! 02 

92 00 



6GG 
401 



950 
1,500 



T.U. 
N. .. 
A. .. 
T R. 
N. ., 
T.U. 



1,258 



T.U. 
T.R, 
A... 
T... 
A... 
T.U. 



13 
2 

12 
4 

11 

12 
8 
3 

12 

12 

13 
12 
12 

7 
12 

9 



KANSAS. 



Drew, Fred. P.,M D.,U.S.A. 


Fort Riley 




39 00 

33 5ti 
39 13 


96 30 

95 13 
90 45 


1,300 

(.70 
1,000 


T.R 

R 

T.R 

'J' 

T 

T...... 

T 


3 




Lawrence 

Manhatlan .... 


Douglas 

Uiley 


G 


Gooduow, Uaae T 


12 


Oaktield.C. F 




1 


Scott, James 


Gaidner 

Junction City.. 
Leavenworth . . 






1 


Scvmour, E. W., M. D 

Sliaw, M 


Davis 

Leavenworth. . 


33 53 
S9 18 


96 32 
94 32 


1,260 
896 


3 

4 







KENTUCKY. 



Beatty, O 

Mathews, Jos McD., D. D 

?.iattison, Andrew 

Savay;e, Uev. G. S ,M. D.. 

Swam, John, M. U 

Weodiufi", E. N 

Young, ftlrs. Lawrence... 



Danville 

Nicholasviile , 

Paducah 

Miller.-lmif;.., 
Ballardsvale., 
Louis\i!lc. ... 
Louisville. ... 



Boyle 

Jeseaminc .. . 
.Mt. Cracken.. 

Bourbon 

Oldham 

Jefn rson 

Jefl'erson 



37 40 
37 58 

37 00 

38 40 
33 36 
38 22 
33 07 



84 30 
84 13 
87 21 

84 27 
65 30 
65 S3 

85 24 



900 
940 



804 
461 



B.T.R 

A 

N 

B.T.R 

A 

A 

A 



MAINE. 



Brackett, George Emerson. 
Dana, Win. D. 

De wliurst, Rev. Eli .| 

Gaines, Uev. A. G 

Giidiner, R. H 

G'uptill, G. W 

IMoore, Asa P. 

Parker, J. D 

Pratt, J. Frank, M. D 

Reynolds, Henry 

Van Clarcom, Jaines 

West, Silas 

Wilbur, Benj. F 



Belfast 

North Perry , 
Pembroke ... 
Baldwinsville 

Bethel 

Gaidiner . ... 
Cornisliville . 

Lisbon 

Steuben .... 

N'lW Sharon . 
E;stWil,on.. 
Vassal boro' . 
Cornish . ..... 

Dexter 



Waldo 

Washington . . 
Washington . . 
Worcester ... 

Oxford 

Kenntbec . *. . 

York 

Androscoggin. 
Washington . . 

Franklin 

Franklin 

Kennebec . ... 

Vork 

Penobscot .... 



44 23 

45 00 
4 i 53 

42 37 
44 20 
44 40 

43 40 

44 00 
44 44 
44 37 
44 44 
44 £8 

43 40 

44 55 



69 OS 
67 03 
67 15 
72 05 

70 52 

69 4o 

70 44 
70 04 
67 50 
70 03 
70 17 

69 47 

70 44 
69 32 



100 
40 
847 
650 
90 
800 
130 
50 



781 
700 



T.U... 

A 

B.T... 
B.T. .. 
T.R... 
B.T.R 
T.U... 
T.R... 

A , 

N , 

N 

B.T... 
T.R... 
T R..., 



11 

12 
9 
1 
2 
12 
12 
12 
12 
o 

11 
12 
12 
12 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
MARYLA^'D. 



65 



Name of observer. 


Stalion, 


County, 


•a 
5 


u 
•a 
3 

c 
c 


To 

F'H. 

7C0 

""'20" 

"lid" 
45 


s 


6 *" 


Baer, !\Ti?s Harriott M 

B(ll,Ja(ObE 


Sykesville 

Lciter?burs 

Cllei^t^■rto\vn... 

Aniiapois 

I'ridi rick . .... 
Aaric'l Collrge. 
Uladeiishurg. . . 
St. fiiigoes 


Carroll 

VVa.-liington . .. 

Kent 

Aiitie Ariindf'l . 
Frederick .... 
Prince GeorgeV 
Piin* e George "is 
bt. iViary's 


^9 -23 
; 9 35 

;9 i*> 

36 59 
o9 '24 

■"ss's?" 

18 10 


1 

76 57 
w 30 

75 :,9 
7G (i9 

77 i;(J 

""■e'ss' 

76 41 


T.P. R.. 
T.U.... 

A 

A. 

A 

A 

T.R.... 
A 


12 


Duitdii, P. of. J. Ruiscl 

Coodttiaii. VVm. U 

IIr.iit.h( w', Henry E 

.loliiis. IVionigomery, ^T. U . 
Lon'iidc?, Bir jaiiiin .... 
fcicplicusun, U'uv. Janus. .. 


10 
1*3 
12 
3 
10 
12 



MASSAcnusErrs. 



Astrnnemical Observatory 

Bacon, VVi Ijain 

Brown, Nathan W 

L'avis, Rev Emerson.. .. 

Faik'n. John 

Wetealf, .lolin Geo., M. D. 
Prentiss, 11. nry C, M. D . 

R:ynol(:s, Orrin A 

Rodman, Sanitiel 

Saell, I'roi; E. S 



Wil'ianiPtown. 
R'clini..nil .. . 
Topsli^ld . ... 

\Ve^lru Id 

Lawrence. ... 

Mendon 

Worcester ... 

Rnndrlph 

New Ci'dfoid . 
Amherst 



Berkshire . 
Berkshire . 

Essex 

Ilampdcn . 

lisse.x 

Worcester. 
Worce^tc■r. 
NoriVilk ... 

rri.-iiol 

lialnp^llire 



4? 43 

42 '^3 

'4*3 'C6 

43 43 
43 C3 
43 IG 
43 10 
41 39 

43 ea 



73 13 
73 -20 



71 11 
71 34 

71 48 
71 (0 
70 .53 
73 34 



725 
1,190 



180 
lo3 

".528 

311 

EO 

£67 



B T.R. 
T.R ... 
T R.... 

A 

A 

T.U.... 

A 

N 

\ 

A 



MICHIGAN. 



Blaker, Or. G 11 ,jr ) 

Bacon, Frank M \ 


Marqnette 

Otsego .... 

Kew Buffalo. .. 

Detroit 

Nnriljport 

Mill I'oint..... 

Hillaud 

Cliiton 

(^ooper 

IVloi roe 

Ypriianti 


Marquette 

Allegan 

Berrien 

V\'ayne 

Lei lenaw 

• )ttawa 


45 33 

42 28 
41 45 

43 24 
45 '.3 
43 06 
43 (JO 
47 00 
43 40 
41 .56 
43 15 


87 41 

85 42 
8') 46 
83 58 

85 24 

86 11 
86 00 
8t< 00 
85 ;:0 
8;! 23 
83 47 


630 

662 

6'Jl 
597 

'"'680"' 
8.0 
(90 
59J 
751 


A 

N 

B.T.R. . 

A 

N 

T 

T.R 

T 

T.R 

T.R 

A 


12 
6 


Crosbv. J B 

PitchcT, Zena,M. D 

Pchetteilv, Hi nry R 

Smith, Rev. E. IVl. S. ..... 

Siiena, 1. H 

Van U;dcn, Wm , jr 

Wal, er, Mr-i. Octavia C... 
Wheipley, Miss Florence E. 


5 
4 
7 
6 


K( weenaw.... 
Kalamazoo... 

Monroe 

Washtenaw.... 









Garrison, O. E 

Pater.-on, Rev. A. Bell, D. D . 

Rigss,rvev. .s. R 

Smith, Henry L 

Tllicl;^tMn.T. F 

\Vieland,C 



MINNESOTA. 



St. Cloud... 
St. P.iUl .... 

Haiutazee . , 
Forest City.. 
Ilaslinu's. ... 
Beaver Bay. 



Htearns.. 
li'amsey . 
Brown .. 
Meeker.. 
Dakota.. 



Luke. 



45 45 

44 53 

45 I 
45 45 



47 !■; 



94 23 

93 05 

94 00 
94 00 



91 18 



MISSOCEI. 



T 


R .... 


T 


R ... 


T 


R.... 


T. 


U . . . . 


'i' 


1! .... 


B. 


T 



Bo\vle=.S. R.,M. D 

Chiistian, John 

Engelinann. George, M. D.. 

Fendlir. Augustus 

Lunemann,John H ,S. J .. 

Muxey,\V. F 

Myers. J. II 

Ray. George P 

Tld^well,Miss Mary Alice. . 



Greenfield .. 
Harrisnnvdie 
t**t Louis..,, 
Pt. Louis.... 
Pt. Louis.... 

Paris 

Kirksvillc..., 

Cairon 

U arrenton .. 



Dade 

Cass 

St. Louis. 
St. Louis. 
St. Louis. 
Monroe.. . 

Adair 

Lewis.... 
Warren ... 



37 22 



38 37 
38 37 

38 40 

39 .30 

40 33 



38 



93 41 



90 15 
9J 16 
HO 15 
93 (jO 
92 50 



91 IG 



1,800 



481 
470 
4;5 
7(!0 
1,000 



835 



N 

N 

A 

B.T. P 

A 

T. R . 

N 

T 

T 



5 S 



G6 



METEOEOLOGICAL OBSEEVEES. 
NEBRASKA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


North latitude. 

* 


•a 
1 

1) 


to 


a 

3 


2 


Bowen, Miss Anna M. J.. . . 
EvaiH.John 


Elkhorn City .. 

Fontenelle 

Dellevue 

Kenosha 


Douglas 


41 22 
41 31 
4\ 08 
40 51 


95 13 

9(3 45 
95 50 
95 54 


Feet. 
1,000 
1,000 

'i,"()56"' 


T 

T 

T. R ... 
N 


12 

Q 


Hamilton, Rev. Win 

White, Bela 


Snrpy 


12 
5 









NEW HAMPSHIRE 



Crown, Branch 

Cliase, Arthur . 

French, Isaac S., M. D 

Nason, llov. Elias 

Odell, Fletcher 

Pitman, Charles H...., 



Str.Ttford Coo3 ....... 

Claremont t*ullivan.... 

l.oudon Ridge . IMerrninck . 

Exeter Rockingham 

Siii'lbume , . .. Cuos 

NonhBarnstead Beiknnp.... 



44 08 
4> -2-2 
4:^ 20 

42 58 
41 23 

43 33 



71 34 

72 21 
71 25 

70 55 

71 06 
71 27 



1,000 
519 
475 
125 

700 



T R 
R.T. R 
T R... 
B T... 
D T... 
T 



NEW JERSEY. 



Cooke, Robert L 

Rho,'s, iMorfian J , M. D 
Thompson, Gcorgi- W.. . 

Vvliitehend.VV. A 

WUhs, Oliver R 



r.loomfield 

Mount Holly. . 
New Bunsvvick 

Newark , 

Freehold 



Essex- 

Burlington. 

Middlesex . 
E-scx ... . 
Monmouth 



40 30 
40 45 
40 15 



75 31 

74 10 
74 21 



120 


A 


■ 30 


B T. ... 


yo 


T 


35 


B T. R.. 





T 



NEW YORK. 



Bartlott, Erastus B 

BeauchaniD, Wm. M 

BovvMian, Joliti 

Cowing, Philo 

Dill, John B 

Denning, William H 

Dewey, Prof. Chester.... 1 

Kreyer, Carl T j 

Gregory, S. O 

Guest, W. E 

Heimstreet, John W 

Hibberd, A. A 

Holme , Dr. E. S 

House, John C 

Howell, Robert 

Ives, William 

Mack, Rev E. T 

Mackie, Matthew 

Malcini, Wra, S 

Matliew-, M M., M. D.,.. 

Monroe, Prof A. T 

Jlorris, Prof. Oraii W 

Paine, H. M., M. D 

Russell, Cyrus II 

Spooner, Dr. Stillman 

Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware 

Titus, Henry Wm 

Wadsvvorlh, A. S 

Wakeley , Charles C, Ruth- 
erford's Observatory. 

While, Aaron 

Willis, Oliver R 



Vermillion. .... 
Skaiieati'les . . 
Baklwmsville. 
Senica Falls. . 

Auburn , 

FishkillLandinj 

Rochester . ... 

Theresa 

Oidensburg... 

Troy 

Heiinitage. ... 

Wilson 

Waterlord .... 

Nichols 

Bulfilo , 

Flatbush 

Clyde 

O >we^o , 

Rochester . ... 

Fordham 

New York. ... 

Clinton 

Gouverneur... 
WampsviUo . . 

Lyons 

Bellport 

Henrietta .... 
New York. .. 

Cazenovia. . .. 

White Plains.. 



0<wego , ... 
Onondasa... 
Onondaga . . 

Seneca 

Cayuga . 

Dutchess ... 

Monroe 



Jefferson 

St. Lawrence , 

Bonsselacr 

Wyoming 

Niagara 

Saratoga 

Tiona 

Erie 

Kings 

Wayne 

Oswego 

Monroe 

Westchester. . 
New York . . . . 

Oneida 

St. I..awrence. 

Madi-on 

Wayne 

Suffwlk 

Monroe 

New York. .. 



Madison 

Westchester... 



43 25 
43 00 
43 04 
42 54 

42 55 

41 34 

43 03 

44 12 
44 43 
4! 44 

42 09 

43 20 
42 47 
42 00 

42 50 
40 37 

43 10 
43 28 
43 08 
40 .54 
40 43 

43 03 

44 19 
43 04 



40 44 
43 OS 

40 44 

42 55 

41 05 



77 23 
76 30 
76 41 

76 51 

74 28 

74 18 

77 51 

75 48 

75 37 
73 37 

78 14 
78 56 

73 39 

76 32 
78 56 

74 02 

77 10 

76 30 

77 51 

73 57 

74 05 

75 15 
75 29 
75 50 



72 54 
77 51 

73 59 

75 46 
73 4C 



327 
932 



463 



42 

516 

355 
232 

58 



250 
70 



600 
54 

4O0 
25'J 
£25 
147 
25 
600 



15 

600 

41 



T 






R. 


T 




T 






B 


T. 




r 






B. 


T 


R.. 


B. 


T. 


R.. 


T. 


R. 




N 






A 






T 


R. 




T 






A 






T 






A 






R. 


T. 


R.. 


B 


T 




B 


T. 


R.. 


-^ 






B. 


T 




A 






T 


P 


R.. 


B 


T 


R.. 


T 


R 




B 


T 




A 






I! 


T 


P.. 


\ 






A 






'!■ 







METEOROLOGICAL •OBSERVEPwS. 

OHIO. 



67 



Name of observer. 



Ab<'ll,B.P 

Adams, D. P 

Atluns, Rev. L. S 

Benner, Josiah F 

( Unrk, Will. P 

Colbrunn, Eflward 

Cotton, D. B., 1\1. n 

Crane, Georse VV 

Davidson, Wilson 

Dille, Israel 

Dole, J. G > 

Grifiing,C. S S J 

Fraser, James 

Hammitt, John VV 

Harper; Georje W 

Havwoofl, Prof. John 

Hill. P. G. 

Huntington, George C 

Hyde, Gustavus A ) 

Hyde, Mrs f 

Ingram, John, M. D 

Jerome, A. E 

Johnson, Thos. H 

King, Mrs. Ardflia C 

RJcClung, (harles L 

McMillan. Smith B 

Newton, Rev. Alfred. 

Peck, Wm. R ,M D 

Peirce, Warren 

Phillips, U C. and J. H.... 

Pillshury, Mrs. M. A 

Smith, C H., M. D 

Thompson. Rev David.... 

Thoinp-on, Rev. Elias 

Tappan, Eli T 

Treniblev, J. B , M. D 

Ward, Rev. LP 

Warder, A. A 

VViiliains, Prof M G 

Wilson, Prof J'. H 

Young, I'rfit'. Clias. A.... ] 

Stuan, E. W | 

Pettingell, W }• 

Elliott, J. C I 

Watterson, n. R J 



Station. 



Welshfield ... 

Marietta 

f^aybrook 

New Li.-bon . . 

Medina 

Cleveland . ... 
Portsmouth... 

Bethel 

Freedom 

Newark 

Austinburg . . . 

Little Hocking 
College Hill... 
Cincinnati. ... 
Westerville ... 
Dallashurg, ... 
Kelley's Inland 

Cleveland . ... 

Savannah 

New Westfield 
Coshocton. ... 

Madison 

Troy 

East Fairfield. 

Norwalk 

Bowling Green 
Garrettsville. . 
Cincinnati. ... 

East Cleveland 
Kenton ....... 

Milner.sville , . 

Crolon 

Cincinnati. ... 

Toledo 

Seville 

<'incinnati.... 

Urbana 

College Hill... 

Hudson , 



County. 



Oeauga 

Wa-^l.'ington 
Ashtabula . , 
f.'olunibiana 

Medina 

Cuyahoga . , 

Scioto 

Clermont... 

Portage 

Licking . ... 

Ashtabula . , 

Washington. 
Hamilton ... 
Hamillon... 
Frnnklin. .. . 
Warren . ... 
Erie 

Cuyahoga... 

Ashland. ... 

Hond 

Coshocton .. 

Lake 

Minmi 

Columbiana 

Huron 

Wood 

Portage 

Hamilton... 
Cuyahoga... 

Hardin 

Guernsey... 
J^icking .... 
Hamilton... 

Lucas 

Medina 

Hamilton .. 
Clianipaign . 
Hamilton... 

Summit . ... 



41 23 
S9 2.5 
41 53 

40 4.5 

41 07 
41 30 

38 45 

39 00 
41 13 

40 07 

41 54 

39 25 
39 19 

39 16 

40 04 

39 30 

41 36 

41 30 

41 12 
41 13 

40 18 

41 50 
40 03 

40 47 

41 15 
41 15 
41 15 

39 06 
41 31 
41 30 

40 10 

40 13 
39 07 

41 39 
39 59 

39 08 

40 (6 
39 19 



81 12 
81 31 
81 01 

80 45 

81 47 
81 40 
8J 50 
84 00 

81 08 

82 21 

eo 52 

81 00 

84 '76 
84 27 
&:i 00 
64 31 

82 42 

81 40 

82 31 

83 49 
81 53 

81 00 

84 06 

80 41 

82 30 

83 40 

81 10 

84 27 
81 38 
84 41 

81 45 

82 38 
84 27 

82 32 
81 47 
84 35 

83 43 

84 28 



Feet. 

1,205 
630 
650 
961 

1,255 
665 
52.3 
555 

1,100 
825 

816 



800 
*500 



800 
587 

643 

1,098 

692 

765 

600 

1,103 

1,152 



700 
900 
5t0 
659 



*470 
604 

1,075 
800 

1,015 
SOU 



T. U... 
T. K .. 

T 

B. T. R 

A 

T... 
B.T. R 
T. R . 
B. T. R 
T... 



T. R... 

N 

N 

A 

A 

N 

B.T. R 

B.T. R 

A 

T. R... 

A 

T. R .. 
B. T. R 

A 

T 

B.T. R 

T 

B.T. R 
B T .. 
B T... 

T 

T. R .. 

A 

B. T. U 
A.... 
T. R 
B.T R 
B.T. R 



B.T. R. 



' Abjvj low-watei- in the Ohio river at Ciiiciii:iati. 
PENNSYLVANIA. 



Boycrs, W. R 

Bruggpr, Samuel 

Darlington, Ft nclon 

Friel, P 

H.ince, Ebonezer 

Heisely, Dr. John 

Heyser, William, jr 

Hickok, W. O 

Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R 

Hucbener, 0. T ) 

Ricksecker, Lucius E ... ( 

Jacobs, Uev. M ) 

Jacobs, H. E ^ 

Kirkpatrick, Prof Jas. A... 

Kohler, Edward 

Lyceum, JpflVrson College . 

McNett, E.L 

Martindale, Isaac C 

Meehan, Thomas J 

Meehan J S 



niairsville... 
Fleming .... 
Parkersville 
Shamokin . . 
iMorri.Jville. . 
Ilarrisburg. . 
I'liamhcisbur 
Harrisburg. 
Mount Joy 

Nazareth .. 



Gettysburg. . 

Philridelphia 
N. Wliitrlwll 
Cannonsburg 
(Carpenter . ., 
By berry 

Gcrmantown 



Indiana.. ...... 

Centre 

Chester 

Northumberl'd. 

Bucks.., 

D.uip'iin. ..>... 

Franklin 

Dauphin 

Lancaster 



Northampton . , 
Adams 



Philadelphia. 

L'high 

Wa^hin-iton.. 
Lvconiiiis.... 
Piiiladelphia . 

Philadelphia . 



40 31 
40 ."^5 

39 54 

40 45 
40 12 
40 16 

39 58 

40 20 
40 08 

40 43 

39 49 

39 .57 

40 40 

40 17 

41 37 
40 05 



74 43 
77 .53 

75 37 

76 33 

74 43 

76 15 

77 45 
76 .50 

76 30 

75 21 

77 15 

75 10 

75 26 
80 10 

76 53 
75 00 



1,010 
780 
2i8 
700 
30 

'"'bis' 

320 



530 



50 
250 
936 



T 


R. 




T 


R. 




T 


R 




T. 


R 




1! 


T. 


R.. 


A 






/\ 






A 






a:::::::i 


B. 


T. 


R.. 


B. 


T. 


R.. 


A 






T.:.::.-! 


A 






T. 






T. 


R. 




T 













METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



PENNSYLVANIA— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



MuIIer, Prof. Uiiiolph 
Ral;-lon. Rev, J. Gner. 

Scoit, Saniufl 

Swift, Dr I'aul 

Taylor, John 

Tracy, George H 



Latrnbp ...... 

Nnrrisiown 

Woitlilngton .. 
W liavprford. . 
Connollsville. .. 
Sewickleyville. 



County. 



Wesfmorrland 
MontaoiiK^ry .. 
Armstrong... 

Delaware 

Fayttie 

Alleghany 



40 27 

40 08 

41 50 
40 00 
40 00 
40 38 



79 32 
75 19 
79 31 
75 21 

79 36 

80 14 



Feet. 
l.'^S 

i.o.-.o 

400 



656 



P..T. R. 

A 

r. a ... 
T. R ... 

T 

H.T. R. 



Buokland, David 

Oliickenns, Hfv J. VV 

Cutting, Hiram A 

Mead,S O 

Paddock. James A 

Parker, .Joseph . . . . 

Peily, MeK 

Tobey, Jairies K 



Drnndnn [ Piitli-nd 

Pprin'ti( Id Wind -or 

Luneiiiiurg E^.o.\ 

Rutland I PutHand . 

Craft^b^lry I Orleans 

West t'iipert...[ Rennington... 

Biirlin;;toii : Cliittenden .. 

Calais Wa hington .. 



Atwood, l^aac , 

Bell, James H 

Curtis, VV VV 

Fills, Edwin. M D ... 
Gridley, Rev. John .... 

Kelley, Cha'les W 

Kclspy, Pro*" Henry S 
Lapham, Increase A.., 

Lups, Jacob 

Mann. William 

Mathews, George 

Powers, M II 

Sterling. Ptof lohn VV 

Fallows, William 

Struiik, Daniel 

Winkler, Carl, M D... 
Woods, William 



Lake Y.\\\s... 
Kiiboiirii City 
Rocky Run .. 
Ashland .... 

Keiioslia 

Dcliifleld .... 
Belnit. . .. 
Milwaukee . . 
Manitowoc. 
Superior .. .. 
Brighton .... 
Dartlbrd 

Madi.son 

Janesville . .. 
Milwaukee . . 
Weyauwega. 



.lefferson .., 
Columbia.., 
Columbia ., 
Ashland ... 
KeiKislia ... 
Waukesha , 

Rock 

Milw iiikeo 
Manitowoc , 

Douglas 

Kenosha ... 
Green Lake 

Dane 

Rock 

Milwaukee. 
Waupaca... 



43 00 
43 3J 
43 26 
43 33 
43 .■i5 

43 06 
42 30 
4:t 03 

44 07 
46 46 

42 36 

43 30 

43 05 

43 43 

43 03 

44 15 



89 00 

90 00 
89 20 

91 00 

87 .'■)0 

88 36 
69 04 
87 56 

87 45 

92 03 

88 03 

89 25 

89 25 

89 39 

87 57 

88 50 




RHODE ISLAND. 


Caswell, Prof Alexis 

Sheldon, 11, C 


Providence ... 
Providence 


Prnviftence .... 
Providence ... 


41 49 
41 50 


71 25 
71 25 


120 


A 

B.T. R.. 


12 
12 


TENNESSEE. 


Stewart, Prof. Wm. M. . . . 


(Marksville 


Montgomery. .. 


33 28 


87 13 


4S1 


A 


12 


UTAH. 




St. George 


Washington.... 


37 00 


114 00 




T. R.... 


6 










VERMONT. 














WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 








28 41 


124 37 


40 


T 


7 










WISCONSIN. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
MEXICO. 



69 















y: ^ 




































o 




c 




Name of observer. 


Station. 


o 








S > 






3 




^ 




*•- o 




















■^ 


^ 




ii 


. o 






^ 


o 


CJ 


tA 


c ~* 






J 




M 


■= 


Z 






» / 


1 


Feet. 






l-azlo, Charles 


Pan Juan Bautistri, Tabasco .... 


17 47 


92 ae 


40 


A 


2 


Nimo. J. A 


Cordova. Vera Cruz 


18 54 

19 15 






I3.T. R.. 


15 


Sanorius, Dr. Charles 


96 25 


3,6C0 


12 









CENTRAL AMERICA. 



KiottP, C. N 




y 51 

14 ."H 

y 21 


84 C6 

1)0 :« 

79 54 


3.772 

4,856 


T. K 

A 

A 


IS 


Canudas. Antonio 

While, William T., M. I).. 


Guatemala College, Guatemala. 


12 








BERMUDA. 


Eoval Kncineers, (in the 


Centre Signal Station, Saint 
George's. 








A 


12 


Royal Gazette.) 










SOUTH ameri::a. 


liering, C. '1 


Government Plantation, l!us- 
teiiberg. colony ot tjurinam, 
Dutch Guiana. 

■ 








A 


IV 













Deatus of Observers. 

Lucian Fish, Burlingame, Kansas, early in 1861. 

Andrew G. Cavothers, at Martinique, West Indies, October 20, 1S62. 

Andrew J. Babcock, of Aurora, Iiliaois, at Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee. 



Colleges and of/icr institutiona from loliicli meteorological registers were received 
during the year 18G2, included in tJie jjrecediiig list. 



Nova Scotia 

Canada 

Connecticut 
Illinois 

Iowa 



Maine 

Maryland. 



Massachusetts 



Acadia College 

King's College 

Gratnmar School 

Magnetic Observatory. 
Wesleyan University . 
Lotnbard University... 

McKendree Col lege 

University of Chicago. , 

Cornell College 

Griswold College 

Iowa State University., 
Yellow Spring College. 
Oak Grove Seminary . , 
Agricultural College .. 
Washington College... 

Amherst College 

State Lunatic Hospital 
Williams' College 



Wolfville. 

Windsor. 

Niagara. 

Toronto. 

Middletovvn. 

Galesburg. 

Lebanon. 

Chicago. 

Mount Vernon, 

Davenport. 

Iowa City. 

Ko.ssuth. 

Vassalboro'. 

Prince George's county. 

Chestertown. 

Amherst. 

Worcester. 

Williamstown. 



70 METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 

Colleges, i^'C, from wTdcJnneteorolog'ical registers were received, 4t;.— Continued. 



Michigan .. 
Missouri .. 
Now Jerst-y 
JNew York , 

Ohio 



Pennsylvania .. 

Rhode Ishmd .. 

Tennessee 

Vermont 

"Wisconsin 

Central America 



Marine Hospital 

St. Louis University 

Freehold Institute 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

St. John's College 

University of Rochester 

Young Men's Association 

Farmers' College .-.- 

Halcyon Academy - 

Otterbein University 

Urbana University , 

Western Reserve College 

Woodward High School 

Central High School 

Haverford College ..* 

Jefferson College 

St. Vincent's College 

Sewickleyville Academji. 

Brown University 

Stewart College 

University of Vermont 

Beloit College 

Wisconsin University 

Guatemala College.- 



Detroit. 

St. Louis. 

Freehold. 

New York. 

Ford ham. 

Rochester. 

Buffalo. 

College Hill. 

Croton, 

Westerville. 

Urbana. 

Hudson. 

Cincinnati. 

Philadelphia. 

West Havevford. 

Cannonsburg. 

Latrobe. 

Sewickleyville. 

Providence. 

Clarksville. 

Burlington. 

Beloit. 

Madison. 

Guatemala. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REGULAR 

OBSERVATIONS. 

Asiatic Society of Bc??gaJ. — Journal of the Society, ISGO, containing abstracts 
of hourly meteorological observationi?, taken at the surveyor general's office 
at Calcutta, for June to November, 1859, inclusive. 
Journal No. 1, 1S61, containing same for May, June, and July, 1860. 
Bowoi, Miss Anna M. J. — Summary of observations of thermometer, winds, 
and clouds, for the hours 7 a. m. and 2 and 9 p. m., and for each mouth 
and season during the year 1862, at Elkhorn city, Nebraska. 
Boettner, Gustav A. — Drawings of snow crystals observed in the winter of 

1862-63, at Chicago, Illinois. 
Brackctt, George Emerson. — Monthly abstract of observations in 1862, at Bel- 
fast, Maine, printed in the "Republican Journal;" summary for the year 
printed in the "Maine Farmer," Augusta. 
Brown, Rev. John J. — Summary for 1861 at Dansville, N. Y., giving mean, ex- 
tremes, and range of barometer and thermometer for the year, and amount 
of rain and number of days without frost. , 
Buchner, Dr. Otto. — Der Meteorit von Shallva in Bancoorah und dor Pidding- 
tonit. Von dem W. Haidinger. (Sonder Abctruck aus dem XLI. bde. d. 
Sitzungsb. d. Kais. Akadeniie d. Wissenschaften.) 8vo. p. S. 
Einige neuere Nachrichten liber Meteoriteu, namentlich die von Bokkeveld, 
New Concord, Trenzano, dis Meteoreisen von Nebraska, von Brazos, von 
Oregon. Von W. Haidinger. 8vo. p. 6. 
Die Calcutta-Meteoriten, von Shalka, Futtelipore, Pegu, Assam und Scgowlee 

im k. k. Hof-Mineralien-Cabinete. Von W. Haidinger. 8vo. p. 14. 
Die Meteoritenfcille von Quenggouk bei Bassein in Pegu und Dhurmsala im 

Punjab. 8vo. p. 7. 
Meteoreisen von llogue River mountain in Oregon und von Tuoson, Sonora, 

gesandt von Herrn Dr. Charles T. Jackson. 8vo. p. 2. 
Die Dandenoug-Meteoreisenmasse in Melbourne. Bvo. p. 1. 



METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. • . 71 

Der Meteorit von Parnallce bci Madura im k. k. Hof-Mineralien-Cabinet. 

8vo. p. 4. 
Der Meteorit von Yatoor bei NcUore in Hindostan. 8vo. p. 2. 

[Tiie preceding eight articles arc by W. Haidinger, and are ?epar;ite 
pamphlets extracted from " Seitzungsb. d. Kais. Akadcmie d. Wis- 
senschaften."] 

CarofJicrs, Andrao G., U. S. consid, Martinique. — Printed copy of the daily 
miteorological observations made at the military hospitals, Guadaloupi', 
from October, 1861, to May, 1862, inclusive. 
Extract from the I^hysical History of the Antilles, by J[. Morcau de Gonnes, 
giving the dates of a number of hurricanes since 1825. 

Casivcll, Professor AJcxisi D. D. — Monthly summaries of observations made at 
Providence, Rhode Island, during the year 1862. (Published in the " Provi- 
dence Daily Journal ") 

Connolly. Henry. — Observations at Eigolct, Esquimaux bay, Labrador, from 
July. 1860, to June 1862, inclusive. 

Dana,, Wm. B. — Meteorological tables, being a summary for the year 1859, by 
Henry Willis, at Portland, Maine. (Printed.) 

Dudley. Timothy. — Summary of observations for the y( ar 1862 at Waverlcy, 
Illinoi-s, giving the mean and extremes of thermom'-ter and amount of rain 
for each mouth and for the year; also, date of earliest and latest frost. 

Foster, W., jr. — Notices of meteors and aurora in July and August, 1862. 
(Providence, R. I., Journal, August 23, 1862.) 

Frantzius, Dr. A. — Thermometer and barometer observations at San Jose, in 
Costa Rica, Central America, at 7 and 10 a. m. and 4 and 7 p. m., daily, 
from September. 1861, to August, 1862, inclusive. 

Frey, S. C. — Newspaper record of thermometer and barometer at Springfield, 
Ohio, from February 4, 1861, to May Jl, 1862. 

Gardiner. R. H. — Printed summary of his observ;itions at Gardiner, Maine, for 
the winter of 1861 -'62, and a comparison with the mean and extremes of 
the preceding twenty-six winters. 

Hague, Captain, astronomer of the North American Boundary Commission on 
the part of the English Commission — Monthly means and extremes of 
observations with barometer, thermometer, and psychrometer; also, the 
number of rainy days and amount of rain, from August, 1860, to Decem- 
ber, lN6l,at Fort Colville. Washington Territory ; latitude 48° 39' 58" N.. 
longitude 118° 3' 52.8'' W.; height above the sea, 1,268 feet. 

Hays, W. W., M. D — Summary of the observations on temp-rature and rain 
made at the presidio of San Francisco, California, by the surgeons of the 
United States army at the post from July. 1852, to December, 1862. 
Amount of rain measured at Benicia barracks, California, during each montli 
from March, 1856, to February, 186'J; also, a separate taithj showing thy 
amomit in the "rainy season" of each year during the same period. 

HtrscJiel, Sir J. F. W. — Manual of meteorology, by Sir J. F. W. Herschel. 
Bart. Extracted from the Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry, third 
edition, 1859. 16mo. pp. 52. t 

Letter from Sir J. F. W. Herschel, Bart., to Sir J. W. Lubrock, Bart., on 

shooting stars. London, 1861, 8vo., pp. 4. 
Report of the meteorological committee, part 1. Read July 17, 1837. Printed 
at the Gazette office. Cape Town, Cap»i of Good Hope. 8vo., pp. 20. 

Hyde, Gustarus A. — Summary of observations at Cleveland, Ohio, for the year 
1862, and comparison with the preceding six years. 

Ices, JVilliam. — Article on the climatology of Buffalo, New York, prepared by 
him for H. Thomas's Buffalo City Directory; five pages. 

LaJcc Wi7inepisswgee Cotton and Wvollen JManvfacturing Company, Keic 
Hampshire. — Amount of rain for each month, in 1862 at the outlet of Lake 



72 METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 

Winnepissiogee, in the town of Laconia, New Hampshire, and also at Lake 
Village, about f'wur milcri south on the same stream of water. Transmitted 
by J. B. French. 

Lapham, I. A. — Dates at which the ice left Milwaukee river in each year from 
1837 to 1863, inclusive. 
Table showing the date of the arrival at Milwaukee, "Wisconsin, of the first 
vessel in each year from the "lower lakes" from 1837 to 1863. 

Lewis, James, M. D. — Hourly observations of timperaturc at Mohawk, New 
York, registered by his metallic self-recording theiTnometer during the year 
1862, with the means calculated for each half month. 

Logan, Thomas M., M. D. — -Hydrography, meteorology, and hyetography of 
Sacramento, California, for a series of years, embracing chart of the oscil- 
lations of the Sacramento river from 1853 to 1862, inclusive; monthly and 
annual means of barometer, thermometer, and psychroineter, with forci' and 
direction of wind for the same period; monthly and annual amount of rain 
from 1849 to 1862, inclusive, together with general remarks on the weather 
and seasons. 

Macgregor, Charles John, M. A. — Head master of the Grammar School, Strat- 
ford. Abstract of observations for the years 1861 and 1862, taken at 
Stratford, Canada West; 8vo., 6 pps. 

McLarii, Wm. D. — Observations on temperature and state of the weather at 
Central City, Gilpm county, Colorado Territory, from December, 1860, to 
3Iay, 1861. 

]\[artinchile, Isaac C. — Summary of meteorological observations at Byberry, 
Philad'-lphia county, Pennsylvania, for the year 1862. 
Notes of the wearher at Byberry, Pennsylvania, at various times from the 
year 1798 to l^Al, collected by I. C. Martindale from authentic accounts. 

Mullun, Lieut. John, U. S. A. — Meteorological record kept by Theodore 
Koleski, at Cantonmrut Wright, Rocky mountains, on the military road 
expedition under command of Lieutenant John Mullan, United States army, 
during the winter of 1861-'62. 

JS'avy Department, Bureau i>f JSledvine and Surgery. — Monthly mcteoro^pgi- 
cal registers ki-pt at naval hospital, Chelsea, Massachusetts, year 1862, 
exc^-pt April and May; naval hospital. New York, year 1862; naval hos- 
pital, Philadelphia, year 1862. 

Newton, H. A. — An account of two meteoric fireballs observed in the United 
States August 2 and August 6, 1860, with computation of their paths, by 
H. A. Newton, of Yale College. (Fi'om American Journal of Science and 
Art.) 8vo., 12 pp. 

Nit'-hy, F. A. — Account of a severe hail storm at Herman, Gasconade county, 
Missouri, June 17, l!s62. 

Observutoire Imperial, Paris. — Annales, tome XX, containing meteorological 
observations for 1859, at Paris. 
Daily meteorological observations received at the observatory from various 
parts of Europe by telegraph, and lithographed for distribution. 

Ohservatorio Fisico-Meti-orico de la Habana, Don Andres Pney, director. — 
Hourly m'teorological observations with full sets of in truments from July 
to December, 1862, inclusive. 

Paine, Dr. II. M. — Monthly summaries of observations at Clinton, Oneida 
county, New Ym-k; printed slips. 

Payot, Venanre. — Observations meteorologiques faites a Chamounix, pendant 
I'annee 1858, Janvier et Fevrier 1859, faisant suite a celles publiees en 
1857, par M. Venance Payot, naturaliste. (Extrait des annales de la 
Societ(3 dAgriculturo, d'histoire naturelle et des arts utiles de Lyon, dans 
sa seance du 14 Mars, 1862.) Svo., 20 pp. 



METEOKOLOOICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 73 

Tollard, T. F. — Observations at Brookfield, Vermont, of temperature, winds, 

clouds, and weather, from June 24, lSo9, to the end of the year 1862, 
Raddiffc Tnistc.es. — Astronomical and meteorological observations made at the 
lladclilTe Observatory, Oxford, in the year IS-'iS, under the superintendence 
of Manuel J. Johnson, M. A., late lladcliffe observer, reduced and printed 
under the superintendence of the Rev. Robert Main, M. A., Radclifte ob- 
server. Vol. XIX; published by order of the Radclifl'e trustees, Oxford, 
1861. 
Rank'm, Colin. — Register of barometer and thermometer from Moose Factory 

to Lake Superior, June 17 to July 2, 1862. 
Rihltt, J. II. — Summary for the year 1862 at Orchard Farm, near Pekin, Illi- 
nois, giving the mean and extremes of thermometer and amount of rain for 
each month and for the year, and the date of the earliest and latest frost. 
Royal Gcograj>hical Socief)/, London. — Proceedings of the society, vol. 6, No. 
2, 1862, containing a notice of the earthquake of Erzerum, in latitude 
39° 5b' 20'', longitude 41° 18' 31", June, 1859, by Robert A. O. Dalyell, 
esq., F. R. G. S., her Britannic Majesty's consul at Erzerum. 
Sheldon, II. C. — Monthly summaries of observations made at Providence, Rhode 

Inland, in 1862. (Published in the "Evening Press.") 
Socicfa di Acdimazione c di Agricidhira in Sicilia. — Proceedings containing 

monthly registers of observations at Palermo. 
Socute des Sciences KaturcKcs dc Kcuchdtcl. — Bulletin 1859 to 1S61, volume 
5, containing : 

Precipitation de la ros('e pendant le jour, par M. Favre. pps. 1-4. 

Rapport du comite meteorologiquc pour I'annee 1858 : — Resum:- des phcno- 
nienes les plus remarquables qui se sent passes a Xcuchatel dans le 16me 
siecle. — Resume mdtoorologique pour Tannce 1858; le resume comprend 
les stations de Neuchatcl, de Chaumont, de Fontaines, et de la Chaux-de- 
Fonds, les observations limnimetriques des trois lacs de Neuehatel, de 
Bienne et de Morat. pps. 102-147. 

Resume des observations mettiorologiques relatives aux vents, faites a Cor- 
neaux de 1812 a 1819, par M. le pasteur Peters; calculd et presente, par 
M. le professeur H. Ladamc. pps. 148-154. 

Rapport du comite moteorologique pour I'annce 1859 : — R;}'sumd de phe- 
nomenes les plus remarquables a Neufthutel dans le 17me siecle. — Resume 
des observations faites en 1859 dans le canton et les observations limni- 
miitriques des trois lacs. pps. 266-321. 

Resume des travaux de M. Schonbein sur I'ozone, prdscntd par M. Kopp, 
professewr. pps. 322-345. 

Note sur quelques instruments mdtcorologiques cnrcgistreurs, par M. Hipp, 
pps. 587-590. • 

Ra])port du comitd metdorologique pour I'annee 1860 : — Resumd des phd- 
nomenes les plus remarquables a Neuchatel de I'an 1700 a I'an 1750. — 
Rdsumd metdorologique pour I'annee, 1860. pps. 675-752. 

Note sur la temperature clu lac a diffdrentes profoudeurs, par 11. Ladame, 
pi-ofesseur. pps. 753-761. 

Note sur la temperature de I'cait de.s fontaines de la ville de Neuchatel, par 
II. Ladame, professeur. pps. 762-763. 
Socle te Mctcorologique de France. — Annuaire, 1861. 

Swan, Caleb. — Amount of rain at the Eastern Dispensary, Grandtstreet, New 
York, during each month of the year 1862, from the record kept by Dr. J. 
P. Loines, house physician of the dispensary; also, during each year from 
1854 to 1861, inclusive. 
Taijlor, John. — -A table showing the cold days in each year from 1843 to 1861, 
inclusive, at Connellsville, Pennsylvania; also, the mean temperature and 
amount of snow for each mouth in the year 1861. 



74 METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 

TJiatcJicr, A. E. — Three small manuscript books containing barometer and 
thermometer observations and notes on the weather, kept at New York 
from August, 1855, to June, 1862. 

Tol.man, Jatncs TV. — Monthly and annual summary of observations for 1862, 
made at Winnebago, Illinois. (Published in the "Rockford Register.") 

Tremhley, J. B., M. D. — Monthly summaries of observations during the year 
1862 at Toledo, Ohio, with remarks on the weather and comparisons with 
previous observations. (Published in newspaper.) 

White, W. T., M. D. — Surgeon-in-chief of the Panama railroad. Fall of rain 
at Aspinwall, New Granada, from 1857 to 1862. 

Whitehead, W. A. — Slonthly and annual summaries of observations made at 
Newark, New Jersey, dm-ing the year 1S62, with comparisons of the same 
with the means and extremes of a series of years. (Published in the " Sen- 
tinel of Freedom and Weekly Advertiser.") 

Woodhousc, Mrs. E. A. — Observations of Professor Parker Cleveland, (her 
father,) from 1808 to 1859, at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Eegents the 
following report of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution 
during the year 1862, with general estimates for the year 1SC3: 

General Statement. 

RECEIPTS. 

The whole amount of Smithsonian bequest deposited in the 
treasury of the United States is $515,169, from which an an- 
nual income at six per cent, is derived of $30, 910 14 

The extra fund of unexpended income is invested as follows, viz : 

In 75,000 Indiana 5 per cent, bonds, yielding 3, 750 00 

In 53,500 Virginia 6 per cent, bonds, yielding nothing in 

1862. 
In 12,000 Tennessee 6 per cent, bonds, yielding nothing in 
1862. •• 

In 500 Georgia 6 per cent, bonds, yielding nothing in 1862. 
In 100 Washington city 6 per cent, bonds, yielding during 1862. G 00 

Premium on sale of $1,875 gold, (interest) paid on Indiana 

bonds, July 1, at 40 J 759 37 

Total income 35, 425 51 

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, January, 1862 22, 045 ] 7 



Total receipts 57, 470 68 

Total expenditure 27,961 07 

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, Januarj^, 1863 $29, 509 61 



EXPENDITURES. 

For building, furniture, and fixtures $2, 237 66 

For general expenses 11, 674 41 

For publications, researches, and lectures 7, 744 44 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 6, 304 56 

Total expenditure $27,961 07 



Statement in detail of the expenditures of 1862. 

BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES. 

Building incidentals $1> G72 34 

Furniture and fixtures in general SO 02 

Furniture and fixtures for museum 485 30 

$2,237 66 



76 EEPOET OF COMMITTEE. 



GENEHAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of tlie Board $81 00 

Liglitiug and beating 1, 142 26 

Postage 353 36 

Transportation, general 733 10 

Exchanges 1, 5.30 32 

Stationery 281 38 

General printing 441 45 

Apparatus 119 06 

Laboratory 408 45 

Incidentals, general 315 02 

Extra clerk bire 405 00 

Salaries, secretary 3, 500 00 

Obief clerk, bookkeeper, messenger, <!cc 2, 344 00 

11,674 41 

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES. 

Smithsonian Contributions $932 97 

Smithsonian Reports 219 88 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous CoUectioas 3, 774 25 

Meteorology 1, 963 08 

Researches and investigations 94 75 

Lectures 759 51 

7,744 44 

LIBRARY, filUSEU?,!, AND GALLERY OF ART. 

Cost of books and binding $1, 513 63 

Pay of assistants in library 1,215 00 

Transportation for library 346 76 

Licidentals for library 44 25 

Museum, salary of assistant secretary 2, 000 00 

Transportation for museum 354 54 

Incidentals for museum 146 59 

Explorations 555 29 

Gallery of art 128 50 

6, 304 56 



Total expenditures $27, 961 07 



It Avill be seen that the whole income during the year 1862 was $35,425 51, 
instead of the estimated income, $34,666 14. This difference is due to the 
receipt of $759 37 as premium on the gold in which the first half year's interest 
on the Indiana bonds was paid. 

The expenditures during 1862 were $27,961 07, leaving $7,464 44 to be 
added to the balance in the hands of the treasurer on the 9th of January, 1862. 

The amount of bills for work already contracted for will not exceed $2,500. 

The foregoing statement is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian funds, irre- 
spective of credits and payments which have been made in behalf of other 
parties. For example, the Institution during the past year has paid several 
bills for work done on account of the government, the amount of which has 
been refunded and credited to the appropriations from which the expenditm'e 
was originally made. 



REPORT OF COMMITTEE. 77 

The appropriation from Congress for tlic preservation of the collections of the 
exploring ;aul surveying expeditions of tlic United States lias been expended, 
as heretofore, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in assisting 
to pay the expenses of extra assistants in the museum, and the cost of arrang- 
ing and preserving the specimens. The'sum received from this source has been 
credited to the museum, and has served to diminish the amount of exjienditures 
for that object on the part of the Institution, although it has not been sufficient 
to defray all the expenses on account of the preservation and public exhibition 
of the specimens. 

The articles intrusted to the care of the Institution are in good condition, 
and the work of the distribution of the duplicates of the government as well as 
those of the Institution is still in progress. 

A part of the expenditure on the building is due to refitting the apparatus 
room, and re-covering, with tin, the northewi portion of the roof of the west con- 
necting range Avhich was blown off during the storm of February 24. 

From the foregoing statements it will appear that the financial affairs of the 
Institution are still in a prosperous condition, and that the Board of Regents 
could resign their trust to-day, with the undiminished original bequest of 
Smithson in the treasury of the United States, with over one hundred thousand 
dollars on hand or in secure investments, and with §66,000 in southern State 
stocks, from which it is hoped at some future time interest may be received. 

The committee submit the following approximate estimates for the year 1863 

Estimated income 834, 666 1: 

E^^TIMATED EXPENDITUUE. 

For building, furniture, and fixtures $2,000 

For general expenses .' 10,500 

For publications, researches, and lectures 10,500 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 9,000 

$32,000 

The committee have carefully examined the books and accounts of the 
Institution for the past year, and find them to be correct. 
Respectfully submitted. 

JOS. G. TOTTEN. 

A. D. BACHE. 
February, 1863. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 

OF 

HE BOARD OF KEGEITS 

or ■ 

THE SMITHSOMAN INSTITUTM. 



Washington, January 21, 1863. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual session on the third 
Tf cdnesday of January of each year, the Board met this day in the Eegents' 
room. 

Present: Hon. II. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. TV. 
P. Fessendcn, Hon. S. Colfax, Hon. S. S. Cox, Hon. E. McPherson, and the 
Secretary. 

Several members being absent on account of a severe storm, the Regents 
devoted the meeting to the examination of the building, museum, library, and 
collections. . 

The Board then adjourned, to meet on Saturday, January 31, 1863. 



Washington, D. C, January 31, 18G3. 

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 11 
o'clock a. m. Present : Vice-President Hamlin, Hon. L. Trimibull, Hon. G. 
Davis, Hon. S. S. Cox, Professor A. D. Bache,' the treasurer, Mr. Scaton, and 
the Secretary. 

The Vice-President was called to the chair. 

The Secretary announced the death of Hon. James A. Pearce since the last 
session of the Board, and stated that Hon. Garrett Davis, Avho Avas present, had 
been appointed a Regent by the President of the Senate to fill the vacancy. 

Professor Bache, after a series of appropriate remarks, offered the following 
resolutions, which were unanimously adopted : 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution deeply 
mourn the loss of their distinguished fellow-regent, James Alfred Pearce. 

Resolved, That in the death of Mr. Pearce our country has lost a refined and 
influential citizen, the Senate of the United States an able, judicious, honest 
statesman, and this Institution an active, intelligent, and learned regent. 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 79 

Resolved, That we sincerely condole witli tlie cafflicted family of Mr. Pcarce, 
and offer to them our heartfelt sympathy in their great bereavement. 

Resolved,, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution to the family of the deceased. 

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, it was 

Resolved, That Professor Bache bo requested to furnish a copy of his i-cmarks 
in relation to Hon. J. A. Pcarce for insertion in the journal of the Board of 
Regents. 

The Secretary announced the death of William McPeak, who had been the 
janitor of the Institution froln its organization, and recommended the payment 
by the Board of his funeral expenses. 

On motion, the Secretary was authorized to j)ay the bill of funeral expenses 
of the late janitor of the Institution. 

Professor Bache, in behalf of the executive committee, presented a general 
statement of the financial condition of the Institution, and an account of the 
expenditures during the year 1862. 

The Vice-President suggested the propriety of taking some action respecting 
Mr. George E. Badger, whose name still appeared as a member of this Board, 
but who was known to be in rebellion against the government. 

After some remarks relative to the knowledge of the fact of Mr. Badger's 
present position, by several members of the Board, on motion of Mr. Trumbull 
thi' follovring resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That the secretary be directed to inform the Congress of the United 
States that George E. Badger, one of the Regents of this Institution, has not 
attended the recent meetings of the Board, and they are advised that he is now 
in rebellion against the govurnmcnt of the United States, and submit whet he • 
th< name of said Badger should longer remain on the list of Regents of said 
Institution. 

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet on Tuesday, February 3, at 7 

o'clock p. m. 



Washington, February 3, 1SG3. 

The Board of Regents met this day, pursuant to adjournment, at Ih^ o'clock 
p. m., in the Regents' room. Present : Hon, L. Trumbull, Hon. G. Da\ns, Hon 
E jMcPherson, Hon. S. S. Cox, Hon. R. Wallach, General J. G. Totten, Pro- 
fessor A. D. Bache, and the Secretary. 

Mr. Trumbull was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the preceding meeting were road and approved. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the Institution 
during the year 1862, which was read and approved. 

Professor Bache presented the report of the executive committee, containing 
an account of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1SG2 and estimates for 
1863, which was read and approved. 

On motion of Professor Bache, it v/as 

Resolved,, That the chairman appoint a member of the Board to fill the 
vacancy in the executive committee occasioned by the death of Mr. Pcarce. 

The chairman appointed Hon. Richard "Wiillach to fill the vacancy. 



80 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

The Secretary presented to tlie Board the following communications : 

"War Department, 
Washington City, January 26, 1863. 

Sir : I have this day requested Iliram Barney, esq., collector of the port of 
New York, to send to you the books, maps, papers, and other articles, now in 
his possession, taken by the United States forces in South Carolina, to be held 
in the Smithsonian Institution, subject to the orders of this department. I 
would be pleased to confer with you in regard to tliis matter if you will be so 
good as to call at this department Tuesday, at three o'clock p. m. 
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

EDWIX M. STAXTOX, 

Secretary of War. 
Professor Joseph Hexry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

War Df.pautmext, 
Washington City, January 29, 1863. 
Sir : The Secretary of War directs that j-ou take possession of the books and 
papers of Bishop John Johns, at his late residence at Fairfax Seminary, and 
transmit them under sufficient guard to Professor Ileniy, at the Smithsonian 
Institution, in this city. 

Very respectfully, sir, your obed'ent servant, 

EDVfARD CANBY, 
'Brigadier General United States Volunteers. 

Brigadier General J. P. Slough, 

United States Volunteers, Military Governor of Alexandria. 

Professor Henry stated that in his interview with the Secretary of War the 
latter had requested that an inventory of the books, &c., should be made, and 
that they should be carefully preserved in a room by themselves. The Secre- 
tary, on behalf of the Regents, provisionally agi'ced to these propositions on 
condition that the expense of the shelving and fitting tip of the room, and the 
preparation of the list, should be at the expense of the government. 

The Board of Regents acquiesced in the propriety of taking charge of these 
libraries, and of carefully preserving them until the termination of the present 
war. 

The Secretary stated that the libraries had been received — the one from 
South Carolina, in thirty-three boxes and one bundle, by the transportation 
company from New York, and th<xt of Bishop Johns, in loose volumes, by army 
wagons from Alexandria. It is proposed to place these libraries in the unoc- 
cupied apartment in the south tower above the Regents' room. 

The following extracts from the correspondence of the Institution were then 
presented, after which the Board adjourned, to meet again, if necessary, at the 
call of the Secretary. 

Western Union Telegraph Company, 
Secretary's Office, Rochester, N. Y., Aj)ril 21, 1862. 
Dear Sir : Your favor of the 15th instant, enclosing circular, is received. 
I recommend that you get one hundred copies of your circular printed and send 
them to E. Oreightou, esq., Superintendent of the Pacilic Telegraph, Omaha, 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 81 

Nebraska Territory. Mr. Creigliton ■svill see them distributed along the line 
at the proper places, and will renew the same from time to time; with his instruc- 
tions. You will please give him particular directions so as to secure what you 
want. 

I would like to have you send me a few copies after they are printed, that I may 
assist you in getting the several telegraph companies between Brownsville, in 
Missouri, and Washington, to transmit for you free this class of business for a 
limited time at least. 

I have written to 'Mr. Creigliton and sent him your circular, but as many 
copies will be required they had better be printed, as I suggest. 
Yours, truly, 

HIRAM SIBLEY, 
President IVeste?-)! Union Telcgrciph Company. 

The following is th.e circular referred to in the preceding letter, which has 
been distributed to the telegraph offices on the line between Missouri and 
California: 

Directions for telegraphing storms to the Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

Violent storms usually come from the west — therefore, after a storm has com- 
menced, send a telegram eastward, giving 

1. The time of beginning of storm. 

2. Eirection of the wind. 

3. Character of the storm, whether wind, rain, snow. 

After the storm is over, send the following : 

4. Time of ending of storm. 

5. Changes of the wind. 

6. Changes of temperature. 

In accordance v/ith this arrangement the Institution has received occasionally 
notices of storms commencing in the llocky mountains, and even in California. 



St. Louis, August 14, 1S62. 

Dear Sir : I believe I have before informed you of Dr. Parry's botanical 
exploration in the Colorado Territory. I have now a long series of barometrical 
observations made by him on the different points visited by him, and among 
thena the snow peaks Mount Guyot and Pike's Peak. 

From a preliminary calculation I find that the latter rises above Fontaine 
qui bouit, at its base, about 7,700 feet; the fountain itself Fnmont finds G,350, 
and I about 6,500, so that the peak is doubtless in the neighborhood of 14,000 
feet, "snow-capped, but easy of access." The timber reaches to within 2,200 feet 
of the top. Mount Guyot is found to be about 13,000 feet high ; Berthoud's 
Pass, 11,400, (all timbered.) 

These results, which I think are approximatively correct, show the great 
elevation of the base of the mountains, (Denver, 5,300 feet; ]\Iount Vernon, 
6,400 feet;) the great elevation of the peaks, and the great height of the limit 
of timber. 10,000 to 12,000 feet seems to be that hinit between forty and thirty- 
five degrees latitude in the llocky mountains. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

GEORGE ENGELMANK 

Professor Henry. 

6 s 



82 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE REGENTS. 

The following remarks relative to tliis letter have been received from Professor 
Guyot, to -whom it was submitted : 

"I return to you, witli my thanks for its communication, the interesting letter 
of Dr. Engelmann. I had become acquainted with a part of that information 
by a letter from himself. It is exceedingly gratifying to see that interesting 
field of labor beginning to be explored. I trust that Dr. Parry will be able to 
continue his useful investigations. 

"A great desideratum for the mountain measurements of the far west is the 
determination of some points near the base of the great chains with some degree 
of accuracy. We would obtain such points by a few regular barometric stations. 
Could not an observer be found in Denver or Colorado City, for instance, who 
would at the same time furnish suitable corresponding observations for measure- 
ments in the mountains, which are indispensable for the accurate determination 
of the high peaks of the Eocky mountains'? It is rather provoking to have the 
consciousness that we do not know the true altitude of any point in these 
2,000 miles of inland country, within one or two hundred feet, to say the least. 

" I suppose that the barometric correction by Plautamour, mentioned in the 
report of the proceedings of the British Association, relates to the influence of the 
hour of the day at which barometric measurements are made, as derived from 
the means of St. Bernard and Geneva. It is the correction the amount of which 
I tried to determine in the latitude of the Black mountain and elsewhere, and 
which I apply in all my measurements. It amounts to ^ L_ of the dilference 
measured, in the hottest part ox the day, above the mean, or -^^ if we take the 
daily extremes. It is thus of considerable importance, though usually neglected. 
I think, however, that the whole needs a considerable revision. Temperature 
is the main cause, but the diurnal variation of pressure also comes in with con- 
trary effects." 



United States National Observatory, 

Washington City, January 8, 1862. 

Dear Sir: You are, I believe, aware that for some time past I have bceo 
eno-agod in investigations relative to Biela's comet. In the course of these 
investigations I have collected and discussed all the observations that could be 
found for each of the recorded six appearances, and, by help of independent 
elliptic elements for each, have digested these observations into a series of 
twenty-five normal places, extending though, with wide intervals, from 1772 to 
1852. I have also computed rigorously the effect of planetary perturbations 
from 1846 to 1858, and am now engaged in continuing this computation to the 
next return in 1865. JMoreover, I have carefully studied the relative motions 
of the two nuclei into which the comet is now divided, and find that the time 
and place of their separation can be indicated with a good degree of approx- 
imation, thus limiting the field of possible causes of the catastrophe. 

It was my expectation, at the outBet, to have extended the calculation of 
perturbations over the whole interval from 1772, so as to unite, if possible, by 
a single theory, all the observed places of the comet ; but a nearer contempla- 
tion of this task, and a little actual trial, show that with my present ofiicial 
duties this would be a work of many years. It has occurred to me, however, 
that it would be in accordance with the plans of the Smithsonian Institution, 
and in keeping with the generous interest it has always shown in scientific 
investigations, to assist in this work by enabling me to employ a computer, to 
whom can be intrusted the more mechanical details of calculation. I venture, 
then, to suggest this proposition to you, and if, as I would fain hope, it should 
meet your approval, and you authorize me to enter into such an arrangement, 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE KEGENTS. 83 

I will gl.'itlly resume tlic "work in accordance with my original plan, and with 
renewed liopcs of success. 

Trusting to hear from you on the subject, I am, respectfully and truly 
yours, 

J. S. HUBBARD. 

Professor Henry. 

The in-\'estigations to which the foregoing communication relates are of a 
highly interesting. character, and well worthy the assistance of the Smithsonian 
Institution. The prosecution of the work has, however, for the present been 
suspended. 

West Chester, Pa., October 31, 1S62. 

Dear Sir: For the last two or three years I have been employing and 
amusing the leisure hours of my old age in collecting materials for brief notices 
of men and events in my native county of Chester, in the State of Pennsylvania. 
I obtained imperfect accounts of about one hundred and thirty men of the 
county, who, in their day and generation, had acquired some character and 
consequence among their contemporaries of the province from its first settle- 
ment, under the auspices of William Penu, down to the present time. Those 
materials were, indeed, very defective, owing to the culpable indifference and 
negligence of our ancestors in preserving them. But, such as they Avere, I 
endeavored to make the best use I could of them, and caused them to be printed 
in numhers, imder the title of Notab Cestribnses, in a newspaper of this 
village.^ I cut the articles from the paper as they were published, and arranged 
copies of them, in numerical order, in tlircc several scrap-hGoks for preserva- 
tion and convenient reference. One of these scrap-books I shall deposit in the 
library of the Chester County Cabinet; another will be deposited in the library 
of the Pennsylvania Historical Society, at Philadelphia; and the third I pro- 
pose, with your permission, if you can allovv- it the space it- may occupy, to 
put in the library of the Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, with the viev.^ 
and hope that in each of those depositories, the said Notae may be accessible 
to any and every one who may have curiosity enough to wish to refer to them. 

My humble rucmorials of the men of Chester are very meagre ; yet, Avhen I 
review them, and consider hov/ careless and indifferent our people have licen in 
such matters, I am surprised even at my own success in gathering my inade- 
quate materials for the undertaking, scattered as they were over so extensive a 
district. 

I am, dear sir, your feeble 3^et faithful octogenarian friend, 

WILLIAM DAllLIKG-TON. 

Prof. Joseph ITen uy. 

The foregoing letter is from oin- much respected and esteemed correspondent 
the venerable Dr. William Darlington, of West Chester, Pennsylvania. It 
relates to a work performed in ,the evening of a long and laborious life, devoted 
to the advance of science and the practice of Chiistian love and charity. Its 
publication may induce others to render a like service to their neighborhood, 
and thus increase the inducements to well doing through the desire inseparably 
connected with our instincts of a future — to live fiivorably in the memory of 
those who may succeed us. (Since this letter was presented to the board Dr. 
Darlington has departed this life. He died on his eighty-first birth-day, April, 
1863.) 



84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 



Paris, Kovc?nber 24, 1S62. 

Dear Sir: Mr. Hermann de Sclilagintweit has enclosed me this note for 
you, asking me to add something as an introduction, which is scarcely neces- 
sary, seeing that he is one of the brothers Schlagiutwcit whose labors in Thibet 
and high India are so familiar to us. Those of the specimens I have seen are 
highly interesting, and the fact that they were collected by the Schlagintweits in 
person gives them a full guarantee. 

Your obedient servant, 

THEODORE LYMAN. 

" Munich, (Bavaria,) Novemhcr 7, 1862. 

Dear Sir : Some days ago I had the pleasure of making the acquaintanpe 
of ]^Ir. Theodore Lyman, who gave me many interesting facts respecting your 
Institution, and especially about your important practical and scientific meteo- 
r.dogical researches. He also gave me a most lively description of the extent 
and the variety of the collections of the Institution. As he has kindly given 
liie an introduction to you, I take the liberty of addressing you this communi- 
cation relative to such parts of our collections of ethnography and natural his- 
tory as we are now about to dispose of. 

Of the objects mentioned in the accompanying statement, Mr. Lyman has 
seen but few, but suiScient, I trust, to enable him to give you more particulars 
as to their character if it should be desired, especially as ho has had Professors 
Kaup and Siebold's opinion of them. 

Besides the objects of natural history, I may mention the photographic col- 
ored fac-similes of a great number of my water-color drawings, their number 
amounting to 125, and including only such objects as are not among the plates 
published in our atlas. Mr. Brockhaus has made several series for England, 
one for Paris, and two for India, but has a few still remaining in his hands. 
The price he charges is 70 thalers, or sfiiO, for thirty views, or 6640 for the 
series. Mr. Lyman has seen them, and will perhaps be good enough to let you 
knovf in a few words how they are executed, as my description might too easily 
be influenced by the fact that I made the originals myself, or worked over those 
made by my brother Adolphe. 

My address for this winter will be: Dultplatz 10, Munich, Bavaria. 

With the expression of my most sincere consideration, I remain yoiirs, 
most truly, 

"HERMANN DE SCHLAGINTAVEIT. 

E.hiography. — The objects are : 

Twenty complete skeletons, head and body, (put up,) of India Thibet, and Turkistan. 
They include savagr^ tribes of India, such as Gomis, Santhals, &o. Price of the original, 
£20 to £oO ; of a copy in natural size, color, &c., in papier mache, £5. 

Fifty skulls, without the body, from the same regions. Price of an original, £4 to £G ; 
cf a copy iu papier mache, £1 J 

I mention especially our collection of facial ca4s, of which I send you the prices of copies 
in metal ami also in plaster. The metallic casts are better able to resist the effects of time 
and exposure, but for a most careful reproduction of any detail the plaster copies can be 
entirely relied on. Price in metal, 21 shillings ; in plaster, 4 shillings a cast. 

Zoology. — Yve have about fifty large stuffed animals, many in duplicate, among which 
are Bos grunniens, Equus hcmionus, Aninus onager, male and female, Ovis argali, (;immon,) in 
fact, of nearly all the larger animals of Thibet, one to three specimens of each. Price of 
each, £9 to £15. 

Of smaller animals, such as Cervus moschatus, the different ovine and caprine domestic 
animals of Central Asia, etc., the price is from £2 to £G. Numerous skeletons of mammalia, 
put up ; price, £2 to £5. Besides, skulls of Equus hcmionus, £5 ; of a rhinoceros, from 
Bhutan Tarai, £8 ; of Ovis argali, £5, &c. An elephant skull, unusually large, with a 
weight (I'JS lbs.) and cranial capacity of about 6,200 cubic inches, determined by filling 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 85 

it with large shot. The brain of another elephant skiiU in plaster. It was obtained by a 
skull defective in its facial part.-i, being filled wilh plaster, and then gradually broken into 
email pieces, so that the very foldings of the dura mater remained untouched ; the original 
iu plaster, £15 ; a fac-simile in papier mache, £5. 

I might add details of about 400 spCLiss of birds, 2 to 10 shillings, in nearly 1,800 speci- 
mens, chiefly from the Himalaya and Tliibet ; reptiles, 8 ghillings to £1, and fishes, 5 to 10 
thillines, determined by Dr. Gunther, (Proceedings Zool. yoc, London ;) butterflies, 20 for 
£1, determined by Dr. Moore; insects, 40 f-jr £1, as well as plants and geological col- 
lections. 

The objects mentioned are at a country seat of ours, Jaegcrtburg, near Forchheim,Bav:i- 
ria, not very far by rail from Munich. 



CiiRiSTlANiA, January G, 1863. 

Sir : The knowledge of tlie countries and nations of tlie earth being particu- 
larly useful as well to the mariner as to the trader, it ought to be especially 
cultivated by us Norwegians. One of the most efi'ective means of calling forth 
the sympathies of the people in behalf of a science is that of establishing public 
museums, or collections of objects, presenting immediately to the eye things of 
which no accurate idea or conception can be conveyed by a mere description. 
The public having thus, so to say, intuitively acquired a feeling of interest in 
the subject, it will be possible, by united efforts, iu the course of some years, to 
bring together collections not only instructive to the nation possessing them, but 
also deserving the admiration of foreigners. 

The British government has in this respect set the greatest example. -■' * * 

An ethnological museum having now been established at the University of 
Chritftiania wich the object of illustrating the manners, mode of living, and civ- 
ilization of the various nations, it is to be hoped that the numerous and enter- 
prising class of Norwegian seamen will avail themselves of the many opportu- 
nities offered on distant voyages to procure objects of interest for such a common 
national depository. The managers of the collection liave already had fi-equent 
occasions to express their thanks even to common sailors for gifts to the institu- 
tion, for which the state has also set apart a sum that, although moderate, will 
enable the managers to refund expenses incurred in procuring objects for the 
museum. Thus it will be within the power of any seaman to contribute towards 
enlarging the collection. 

Trusting to the kind support of the public also for the future, the managers 
consider it expedient to lay down some rules for the guidance of those who, for 
the sake of public utility, may be willing tiuis to contribute towards enlighten- 
ing their fellow citizens: 

1. The nations and countries, the condition and state of which it will be of 
particular interest to see illustrated and exhibited, are especially those most 
diifering from our own country and our own people; consequently, in the 
first place, the nations out of Europe, aiad, among the Europeans, those 
least known, and of the most antiquated manners. As a rule, objects of 
antiquity are also of greater rarity, and will be more acceptable to a col- 
lection than things now in use. 

2. The objects, suitable for illustrating the condition of such nations, are in- 
* numerable. Sacred images, weapons, tools used in the principal trades, 

clothing, furniture, domestic implements, and products of industry, may be 
mentioned. Of course, models, drawings, and especially photographs, will 
afford quite as trustworthy information as the object itself. Articles liable 
to spoil, or the preservation of which would involve expenses, cannot be 
received in a museum. 

3. The limited means at the disposal of a Norwegian institution will, as a 
matter of course, necessitate the selection of articles the price of v/hich is 



86 PKOCEEDIJfGS OF THE REGENTS. 

not excessive. The exhibition of objects of silver or gold or of regal lux- 
uries is also, in fact, of less importance than illustrating the condition of 
the people itself. 
4. In order, however, that the objects of interest to a museum may be applied 
according to their purpose — illustrating the nature of a country or the mode 
of living of the people — it will be necessary that every article forwarded 
be accompanied by an accurate account of where it was procured ; by what 
nation used or made ; in what way used, and for what purpose intended. 
In order to give this request due publicity, it is desirable not only to assist in 
distributing these lines to those who may be supposed willing to advance the 
interests of the Institution, but also, perhaps even more so, to make the subject 
known by personally applying to such acquaintances as are able to procure 
articles of interest. 

I remain, sir, yours, very respectfully, 

LOUIS KR. DAA. 

In answer to this circular, the directors of the Museum of Christiania have 
been informed that the Smithsonian Institution will co-operate with them by 
contributing ethnological specimens from its own collections, and by forwarding 
articles of a similar character which may be presented by others. 



Newark, Ohio, Decemhcr 8, 1862. 

Dear Sir: In the last report of the Regents I notice the Smithsonian In- 
stitution proposes to prepare a map of that portion of the United States in which 
aboriginal antiquities are found. Feeling it to be the duty of every one to 
contribute to the general fund of knowledge, I take this opportunity of calling 
attention to two classes of archosological remains, which I have studied cursorily, 
and have not seen described in any work on the subject. 

1. Remains of ancient cities and villages in Dilissouri. I have seen many of 
these. Whether large or small, they are similar in character. The remains 
consist of a series of tumuli, from one to two feet in height, and varying from 
sixteen to twenty-four feet sqiiare. These tumuli are in straight lines or rows, 
some numbering lumdreds, and others, as of villages, tens; the rows cross each 
other at right angles, and the little mounds vary from four to eight rods apart. 
On digging into these momids broken pieces of pottery are found, such as ate 
common to all the antiquities of the country. In one instance an entire vessel 
was turned up. About the centre of each tumulus charcoal and ashes are found. 
1 have examined several, and the j)Ottery, charcoal and ashes are constants ia 
all I have opened. Fredericktown, in Madison county, Missouri, seems to have 
been the site of a considerable city, extending from a branch of the Castor creek, 
v/hich flov/s east of the village to near the east fork of the St. Francis, on the 
west, being perhaps a mile and a half long and a mile wide from north to south. 

2. A different class of tumuli are common in southern Tennessee. The first 
I observed at the site of old Fort Pickering, two miles below Memphis. It is a 
parallelogram, some 15 to 20 feet high, 120 feet long by some 60 Avide, and 
surrounded by a great many smaller works, just traceable, of various fancies 
and designs. I examined this in the winter of 1847-'48. Last spring I visited 
the site of the battle of Shiloh. This system of antiquities was very abundant 
there, but not so large as the one near Memphis. In a walk of half a mile I 
counted eleven of these parallelograms, generally 60 feet long and 25 wide on 
the top. Several of them were appropriated to the burial of our dead, killed 
in the battle of Shiloh. The smaller works are innumerable, and are generally 
circles. I found them all on the west bank of the Tennessee river, and the 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE EEGEXTS. 87 

most interesting on the south side of Owl creek. I noticed one at the 
village of Savannah, and a very remarkable circular mound, raised by a gradual 
and equal slope from all sides to the centre, "which (the centre) I judged to be 
about 3 feet higher than the sides, and the diameter of the whole about 100 feet. 
I regretted that I had not more leisure to devote to the study of these singular 
antiquities, but my mission was one of mercy, and afi'orded me little time for 
antiquarian research or speculation. 

When peace shall be restored to our distracted country, it would be avcII for 
some one or association to pursue a systematic and thorough exiimination of 
all our antiquities, and to trace the progress of those remains from the rude 
structures in Canada, south to Central America ; for, from my OAvn observations, 
I am satisfied that these remains attest a gradual improvement of the race or 
races that constructed them from the north to the south. The Missouri cities 
and villages were doubtless mere mud huts, and perhaps adobes, such as still 
are used in northern and New Mexico, which in central and southern -Mexico 
and Central America are improved into structures of solid masonry, with sculp- 
tures and hieroglyphics. Whether these were all the work of one race of men, 
CixUed by some the mound-builders, or of several distinct races, may never be 
latisfactorily settled; but a systematic study of the Avhole will afi'ord an in- 
seresting chapter in the unwritten history of man. 
Truly yours, 

I. DILLE. 



Valparaiso, September 17, 1862. 

Dear Sir: 1\\ reply to your esteemed favor of the 23d July, I beg leave to 
state, what I had omitted in my former communication, that the case of 
skulls, &c., from Patagonia, was forwarded by me to the care of the United 
States consul at Panama, by the British mail steamer, expenses thereon paid 
by rae in advance as far as Panama. ■ I would gladly have done so to the port 
of delivery, but found no means of effecting it. By this time I shall hope that 
they are in your possession. Since you manifest an interest in the subject, I 
•shall take an early opportunity of /orwardmg to the Institute the specimen of 
an Atacama mummy — one which I found myself several ycai's ago in the 
neighborhood of the volcano of that name, and which I lefi deposited with a 
friend. I. have ordered it to be sent to the coast, along with the utensils and 
articles of dress and use that were found with the body. At the same time 
1 shall take the liberty of adding a few observations explanatory of the circum- 
stances under which these relics are generally Ibund, and the probable origin of 
the custom. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

AQ. PJED, M. D. 

Joseph Kkxry, Esq., 

Umitlisonian Institution, Washington. 

The account of the human remains mentioned by Dr. Eied in the fore^-oin"- 
letter v/ill be found in the appendix to the present report. 



261 Greene Street, New York, 

November 7, 1862. 
Dear Sir: I enclose herewith a draft of the proposed circular (philological) 
accompanied by the alphabet drawn up by Pi-ofessor Whitney, and the standard 
comparative vocabulary used by Gallatin and Hale. It was at first my inten- 



88 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

tion to modify and enlarge tlie latter, but on a full review of the subject, 
including a lis^t of proposed words, and on consultation with Mr. Slica, I con- 
cluded not to do so without reference to yourself. With certain defects it is 
yet a very judicious selection, and it has already been used so largely that a 
change may now be iujudicioits. Still, if you think best, I will advise with 
Shea, Squier, and Bartlett, and with them prepare a catalogue of additional 
words as an appendix. I am of opinion, however, that the instructions will lead 
collectors in the right track. 

I had also intended to have the circular translated into French here, but the 
health of the person from whom I expected this assistance is too bad to allow 
him to do it at present, and I do not wish to detain it longer. 1 would recom- 
mend that a translation be made into Spanish, (Mexican,) French, and German, 
both of this circular, if adopted, and the one on archa3ology. To save trouble 
with the vocabulary, I send a duplicate blank. There are many French priests 
both in- the Hudson's Bay country and in Oregon; the Spanish, or rathcr Mexi- 
can, priests in New ]\Iexico, Califoi-nia, and elsewhere, may prove valuable 
assistants, and among the Germans, even many soldiers in .the army, ai-e excel- 
lently fitted to collect, and well disposed to do so. It will be well to send a 
number, say one hundred copies, to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to be distributed 
among the agents; an additional hundred to the Bureau of Topographical Engi- 
neers; a like number to the Surveyor General of the Land OfHce, for the use of 
his department; and to the Secretaries of State and of the Navy, for distribution 
among our consuls and officers bound to the western coast of Mexico, and else- 
where. The governor of the Hudson's Bay Company can, I presume, be also 
interested in the subject, and though last, not least, the governor of Eussian 
America. 

One thing that escaped my memory in preparing the arch ecological circular, 
was to say that due credit would be given to collectors. It will be better, how- 
ever, if you pi'ofix the whoh; by an official notice emanating from yourself to 
this effect. An acknowledgment from the head of an institution like the 
Smithsonian is a great inducement to exertion. 

I see in the last annual report Mr. Morgan's circular respecting an archjEO- 
logical map. If you recollect, this was one of the points which I proposed to 
embrace in my work. I think not only of- preparing a general map of North 
America, embodying the great families, but special maps of particular districts 
inhabited by a large number of tribes, included in a few families, who live 
within a small space. Such are Russian and British America, Washington 
Territory, Oregon, and California, for all of which I possess minute information. 
Mr. Bartlett has furnished me with the ranges of tht New Mexican and Texan 
tribes, and I have material from other sources covering other parts of the 
country. Of course, all this, with the" consent of the bureau, will belong to the 
Smithsonian, and I have no wish to monopolize the merit of such a work; but 
as I know that no one else possesses the material that I do, at least of the 
country west of the Rocky mountains, I should be unwilling to relinquish to 
another so important a task. Besides this, until the comparison of the languages 
is completed, the ethnological part of the map cannot be perfected. 

I would, therefore, suggest that skeleton maps be issued, as soon as prepared, 
to various persons interested in ethnology, and who are familiar with particular 
re"-ious, to be filled up with such information as they may possess, to be after- 
wards reduced, giving to each the credit of his contributions. Mr. Shea, Mr. 
Bartlett, General Charles P. Stone, Mr. Buckingham Smith, Dr. Ilayden, and 
other gentlemen, can all add largely to such a work. I have already trans- 
mitted departmental maps to ea,ch Territory, under the sanction of the Indian 
bureau. Permit me, further, to recommend that the proposed map should 
extend far enough north to embrace all the Esquimaux tribes; and west, to take 
in the sedentary Tchuktchi or Namollos of Russian Asia. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 89 

I am very much afraid that the amount of information proposed to be con- 
tained in the ethnological map will render it confused. I would suggest whether 
it would not be better to have two maps — one showing the character of the 
country, whether forest or prairie, desert or arable, with the isothermal lines, &c ; 
the other, its counterpart, containing merely the principal topographical features, 
such as the rivers and main chains of mountains, upon which the boundaries 
and names of the tribes and local names should appear. Thefu'st might indeed 
have designated upon it the boundaries of the families, but should not be colored. 
The latter to be colored and show the tribal subdivisions. 

Begging to apologize for the length of this communication, I am, very truly, 
your obedient servant, 

GEOKGE GIBBS. 

Professor Joseph Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian InstiUition, WasJiinglon. 

November 18, 1862. 

In regard to the proposed map of the continent mentioned in your letter of 
the 13th, I have the honor to submit the following suggestions : The prepara- 
tion ofa base map to serve for these various uses is a subject of the greatest 
interest to every one concerned in scientilic pursuits, and will form a lasting 
monument of the wisdom and efiiciency of the Smithsonian Institution. The 
urgent need of such a one is evident from the fact that I have been uiiablc 
to procure in this city a tolerably correct and recent map, embracing the whole 
continent on a scale of convenient size for ethnological purposes, and have actu- 
ally been compelled to send to Germany for one, The scale recommended by 
Mr. Morgan strikes me as very suitable. In my remarks upon his propositions 
I meant only to object to the introduction upon a strictly ethnological map of 
the details of topography, meteorology, and hypsometry. My own idea, in 
which I am supported by other gentlemen engaged in the same pursuit, is, that 
an ethnological map should exhibit the principal features of the country, the 
rivers, moymtain chains, and particularly the passes in the mountains, and the 
great Indian trails, where the nature of the country was such as to render these 
fixed and distinct ; that it should also have the nomenclature fully given, in the 
popular form to enable collectors in the field to decide upon exact localities, but in 
such a type as to distinguish the popular from the true Indian names. Whei'e, 
as I shall presently suggest, sectional maps on a larger scale are prepared, this 
nomenclature may, however, better be conliued on the general map to a few main 
objects, such as the larger rivers, in order to avoid perplexity. Political divi- 
sions should be as few as possible and faintly indicated. Indeed, in an ethno- 
logical point of view, they are almost worthless, as ours are generally arbitrary 
and not founded on geographical features. 

Besides this general map, I would also have a series of maps on a larger 
scale, comprising particular sections of country, having direct reference to 
the distribution of tribes and ffxmilics. 'J''hus, for instance, one map might 
show the country occupied by the different tribes of the Dakota, another of the 
Snake or Shoshonee, &c. The advantage of this would be, that whereas in the 
general map a single color must be used to indicate a great family, composed of 
numerous tribes, and its subdivisions could not be indicated without leading to 
confusion, these collateral maps could be made to exhibit the districts occupied 
by each. This is very important where the languages spoken by various tribes 
differ greatly, as among the Snakes, the Bannak from the Ute, and that from 
the Comanche. The scale on which these sub-maps should be constructed 
would vary greatly, depending upon two points: first, the number of tribes oc- 
cupying a given region ; second, upon the amount of minute information likely 
to be acquired. On the western coast of America, or that district lying between 
the Cascade and Sierra Nevada mountains and the sea, there arc a great number 



90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

of trilDGS, speaking quite a niimbci* of absolutely different langnagci?, and of 
some of these there are various dialects, differing sufficiently to require de- 
signation. Having fixed and permanent villages, their nomenclature will be 
much more extensive than what we are likely to get from nomadic bands who 
roam in large numbers and cannot be followed up. The same state of things 
existed on the Atlantic, and of portions of the country we have still quite rich 
historical material. 

You will see that the above will contemplate, in fact, an ethnological atlas, and 
that its preparation will be a matter of much time and labor, and occupy the 
attention of all those interested in the study. As regards expense, that need 
not be great at any one time, for the sub-maps, like the general one, might, in 
the first place, be prepared in skeleton, and distributed like the circulars to in- 
vite inquiry and contribution of material. As the work progresses, the topog- 
raphy may be filled in, for these maps will afford room to exhibit it in much 
gi-eatcr detail than the larger one. 

In fact, as regards a general map, even upon the scale proposed, and for pur- 
poses of topography itself, I doubt the propriety of going greatly into oletails. 
The best general European maps avoid this. The map of the Pacific railroad 
explorations, prepared under Mr. Davis's instructions, is almost useless from its 
very minuteness. All the principal features arc lost in the details of topography. 
But, above all things, it appears to me that multiplicity of object should be 
avoided. Of course, a map showing the amount of rain per annum should ex- 
hibit the causes of variation in different districts, but this depends ou great 
features and not on minute ones ; and until it is shown that magnetics, for in- 
stance, influence the amount of precipitation, it would be improper to introduce 
lines of equal variation on a map intended to show those of equal rain fall. So 
with a general topographical or ethnological map. 

I am engaged, with the assistance of the others, in drawing up the details 
which we think it would be well to include in the sub-maps, indicating the bound- 
aries and scales, which I will forward, as soon as completed, for your considera- 
tion. Of course, I do not know how far you may be inclined to extend this 
subject, but the inquiry will at any rate be the means of ascertaining some 
valuable facts as to the amount of information at hand. 

This leads mo to another subject. I find the field Avhich I at first proposed 
to myself has increased to such formidable proportions that, on consultation 
with ]jlr. Bartlett and others, 1 have concluded to propose the Ibllowing 
scheme in its \)]aQ,e : Professor Henry to request Messrs. Bartlett, Shea, Squier, 
Buckingham Smith, and such others as he may think fit, to unite with the 
writer in a comprehensive work upon the ethnology and jDhilology of North 
America, to be published by the Institution, and to prepare materials for maps 
shov/ing the location of the Indian tribes at various periods. The work can 
appear in parts, if thought advisable, as each finishes his portion. Mr. B. 11. 
Ross would doubtless undertake British North America, (except the immediate 
coast,) including the Chepev/yan family, the Crees, and Knistencanx, and per- 
haps the Esquimaux, and prepare a memoir giving the history of the subject, 
and all that is valuable regarding those tribes. Mr. Shea to take the country 
cast of the Mississippi, except Georgia and Florida, which might be assigned to 
Mr. Smith. Shea's knowledge and material exceed those of any one, on the 
people of this region, and his critical acumen is remarkable. Mr. Squier would 
as&iime Central America, and Mr. Bartlett, Texas and New Mexico. The writer 
to take the northwest coast, Washington Territory, Oregon, and Califoi-nia. 
There would rem.ain the country intermediate between the Mississippi and 
Itocky mountains and Mexico. Mexico I Avould suggest should be assigned to 
some of the ethnologists of that country, with an invitation to prepare a general 
view of the subject as relates to it. 

The work should embrace histography, ethnological divisions of families? 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 91 

founded on comparative philology, habits, &c., and psychology — in fact, to 
have as wide a range as there are reliable materials to work on. As it would 
take too long to await its entire completion, it might appear in a series of mono- 
graphs, such as you have already published on various subjects, but the field is 
too wide for any one man to undertake ati exhaustive work, embracing the 
whole. 

I should explain that this suggestion comes entirely from myself, and that I 
am led to it by consultation with these gentlemen as to their views of the 
demands of ethnology in a work of this kind, not that they desired to invite 
such a request. 

GEORGE GIBBS. 

December 26, 1882. 

I had the honor to receive, in due course, your letter of December 18, 
informing me that the questions submitted in mine of December 3 had been 
referred to Professor Whitney, and shall hope to hear from him in reply. 

Pursuant to the directions 1 received in a former letter, I v>'rotc to Dr. Davis, 
requesting him to make any suggestions which might occur to him in regard to 
the archaeological circular ; but having received no reply, I presume that he is 
absent from the city. 1 called on Mr. Squier, v/ho promised to send mc his 
views on the same subject, but have not yet received them. I mention this as 
the cause of the delay in communicating the result to you. If I do not hear 
from you to the contrary, I will let the circular stand as it is. 

In accordance with your desire that I should prepare a list of additional 
words to accompany the philological circular, I have gone into one at some 
length, in concurrence with Mr. Shea. We agree in submitting to you that the 
publication of this additional vocabulary be deferred for the present, and appear 
hereafter as a sort of supplement, v.hcn we shall have rendered it tolerably 
perfect. It may be advisable to extend it to some two thousand or twenty-five 
Imndred words and phrases, some of them generally applicable, others to only 
particular parts of the country. The reason for this extension is as. follows : 

As regards nouns, the almost entire absence of generic terms renders it 
necessary that each object should be as specifically designated as possible ; for 
instance, eacli particular kind of animal, tree, &c. Mr. Morgan's circular illus- 
trates this point in respect to relationships, which are distinguished by singular 
complication and a great variety of uam?s. In the pronouns there are noL onh'- 
absolute but copulative pronouns, sometimes both personal and possessive, the 
copulative being joined to or incorporated with nouns and adjectives or verbs, 
as the case may be. In some languages, at least, there are two and even three 
sets of cardinal numbers, one being positive or simple, another personal or 
applied to men, and still another to the counting of money. Again, of the 
verbs, the degree of detail into which these languages run may be eeen fi-om 
the fact that vv'hile there maybe no abstract word for " to wash" or "kill," 
there will be found separate words for to wash the hands, face, and clothes, 
and to kill by stabbing, shooting with a bow, gun, &c. 

You will therefore perceive that in order to arrive at any degree of precision 
it v/ill be necessary to furnish quite a numerous collection of words, and that 
reference must be had in the selection both of these and the phrases to the 
idiom of the language and turn of thought of the speaker. To accomplish this 
in a way satisfactory to yourself will require some time, but in the mean while 
the present circular will perform its own more limited task. 

The scientific names of animals, &c., should, of course, be given ; but whether 
it will be best to undertake a translation of the whole into other languages is a 
question, for there are many words of daily use in Indian life which have no 
synonyms in dictionaries, or except in the various patois. 



92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 



December 26, 1862. 

I owe you an apology for my omission to comply with your request that I 
should send you an account of what I am doing. It is, in brief, this : 

I propose to give a connected sei'ies of vocabularies of all the known Indian 
languages west of the Rocky mountains, deriving from them a classification of 
the various tribes into families, and upon this basis to form an ethnological map 
of that part of the country. In addition to this, I propose to give a memoir 
upon the character, customs, &c., of those tribes Avith which I have been in 
direct communication, more especially as regards their habits of thinking, 
mythology, &c., and to inclixde or append sub-memoirs by other persons upon 
particular districts out of my own range, and a resume of the statistics of popu- 
lation at various periods so far as known. Of course the various authorities 
will be referred to, so as to give the bibliography, history, &c., of each section. 

I have limited the above mentioned to the country west of the Ilocky mount- 
ains, because I am satisfied that it is all that I can accomplish within a reason- 
able time, and that the labors of several investigators are required for an 
exhaustive discussion of what has already been collected in various parts of the 
continent. In a former letter I took the liberty of suggesting the allotment of 
other parts of this work to several gentlemen who have pursued separate exam- 
nations ; such as Mr. Squier for Central America ; Mr. Bartlett for Texas, New 
Mexico, and Arizona ; Mr. Shea for the Atlantic section, except Georgia and 
Florida, which should fall to Mr. Buckingham Smith; and Mr. B. R. Ross, of the 
Hudson's Bay Company, for British America, except the northwest coast, which 
would come within my own field. JMr. Smith suggests EI Exmo. Seiior Don 
Fernando Ramirez, of Mexico, as the proper man to give the Mexican part, and 
thinks that he Avould willingly undertake it. It appears to me that the calling 
in assistance from Canadian and Mexican sources would not only add value to 
the contributions, but be a matter of policy as regards the Institution itself, 
makiu"- it a North American centre, instead of one confined to the United 
States alone. I need not say that the value of the ethnological series v/hich 
you may publish will be greatly enhanced by the fact that each contribution is 
a specialty. It would, moreover, give the opportunity to make each paper 
exhaustive within its own region ; Senor Ramirez, for example, giving the 
literary history of the JMexican tribes, as well as their philology and ethnology. 

Mr. Ross's vocabularies, together with Mr. Kennicott's, are of- the utmost 
importance in furnishing materials for comparison between the northern Che- 
pewyan languages and the southern b*inches, which extend into New Mexico 
and Chihuahua. His notes are carefully prepared and well written. If you 
deem it desirable, I will forward them for your examination. 

GEORGE GIBBS. 

January 20, 1863. 

I herewith enclose a memorandum of what is doing in the way of ethnology, 
so far as I am informed. 

Mr. Shea has two more numbers of his scries out, copies of which will imme- 
diately be sent you. One of them is the vocabulary of the San Antonio mission 
Indians, the one which Mr. Taylor denominates "Sextapay," but the correctness 
of which title is questionable. Mr. Shea has edited this with great care, re- 
arranging the whole, as the manuscript was in a confused state. I beg to refer 
you to his preface, as also to the appeal at the end of the v/ork. The other is 
jilr. Smith's Nevoine. 

The Sextapay, or San Antonio, is one of the numbers due on your contribu- 
tion for 1861. Its publication has been delayed by the labor incident to putting 
it in presentable form, and by the necessity of casting some special type. This, 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 93 

together witli tlie Mutsun and Yakama grammars, fills the programme for that 
year. 

On your subscription for 18G2 (on which no payrncilt has yet been made) 
Smith's Ncvome is the first. The vocabulary of the Slutsun is now going 
through the press,, and Avill be immediately followed by a number containing 
three of my larger vocabularies, the Chinook proper, the Clallam, and the 
Lummi, the last two being languages of the Sclish family. 

Shea proposes to follow up for 1863 with the Mohawk radicals, a valuable 
Jesuit manuscript, a Jesuit grammar of the Micmac, and my dictionary of tho 
Xisqually. I trust sincerely you will find it convenient to continue your aid, 
for 1 am not alone in considering this the most valuable series of philological 
publications now going on. ]\lr. Moore, the librarian of the New York His- 
torical Society, recently told me that neither England nor France could show 
anything to equal it. 

The Chinook jargon is now finally in hand, and I trust to send you the 
proofs of the first signatures this week, as also of the circulars. 

GEOllGE GIBBS. 

January 21, 18G3. 

Mr. Buckingham Smith called upon me to-day and showed me a letter from 
Don Jo^c Fernando ijamircz, of Mexico, from \yhich I enclose an abstract: 

"There exist no vocabularies of the languages, nor have the grammars ever 
been preserved, written by the early missionaries. It is almost impossible to 
bring together those that have been piiuted. On this subject a work has been 
commiiuced, entitled Cuadro descriptive y comparativo de las Icnguas indigenas 
dc Mexico,' compendium descriptive and comparative of tho native tongues of 
Mexico, by Don Francisco Pimentel. The first volume only has been printed, 
which cotnprehends the analysis of twelve languages. Unfortunately, material 
is wanting. Those contained in the first volume are the Iluaxteco, Mixteco, 
Slamc, Othomi, Zvlexican, Zapateco, Tarahumar, Tarasco, Totouaco, Opata or 
Teguema, Cahita, and Matlaznica. If you have succeeded in publishing the 
grammars of which you informed me. (Pima and Sieve,) and they should arrive 
in time, they will be examined in the work. I have not and am imacquainted 
with the 'Archaeology of the United. States, by Samuel F. Haven,' about which 
3^ou write me. Of the Smithsonian Contributions I have only tho sccDud, third, 
■and fourth volumes, unless the first volume should be 'Ancient Monuments of the 
Mississippi Valley,' which 1 possess. At present there is no way of sending 
books to Mexico, unless the Department of State will tak(3 charge of them." 

jMr. Smith has handed mo the above with the view that I might ask of you to 
send to Seuor Ramirez such other papers of the "Conti'ibuiions" as belong to 
archajology. That gentleman is well known as one of the most distinguishf^d 
scholars in that department in M(^xico, and one whom it would be desirable for 
tho Institution to number among its correspondents. I am, however, astonished 
at the account he gives of the paucity of works on the indigenous languages of 
that country, so entirely o})posite to our general belief here. Under any circum- 
stances, Pimcntel's work should be pi-ocured if possible. 
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

GEORGE GIBBS. 

Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution. 

New York, November 1, 18G2. 
Dear Sir: The Indian works now printing and to be completed before the 
close of the year, beside the Sextapay or San Antonio vocabulary, arc : 

I. The Mutsun vocabulary of Padre Felipe Arroyo dc la Cuesta. This is a 



94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGEKTS. 

collection of plirases, but seems to include all the known words of the language, 
and, with the grammar already printed, will furnish all necessary means of com- 
paring the language with others. To complete the subject, nothing Avill be 
needed but good comparative vocabularies of the Soledad, and other dialects. 

II. The Micmac grammar of M. Maillard. Mr. Gallatin drew some ideas 
from an extract from fragments of this, but the entire work is necessary as the 
best knoAvn treatise of the most easterly branch of the Algonquin family. 

III. The radical words of the Mohawk language by Rev. James Bruyas. 
This work treats the language on the system introduced by the Port Royalists, 
of learning the roots or radical word« of a lauguage and then deducing the 
derivatives. It divides the whole language into conjugations, and gives under 
each root the derivatives Avith many examples. 

IV. An alphabetical vocabulary of the Chinook language by Mr. George 
Gibbs, in all probability the largest that will ever be made, as the tribe is fast 
vanishing. I have also in hand, and may have ready in time, some others, as — 

V. Vocabularies of the Klallam and Lummi, by Mr. George Gibbs. 

VI. A Nevome or Pima grammar, edited by Buckingham Smith, esq. 
Next to t«iieso I wish to bring out — 

VII. A Nisc|ualiy dictionary, by Mr. Gibbs. 

VIII. An extremely valuable and ample dictionary of the Illinois language, 
compiled, I judge, by the Rev. Father Le Boulanger, and for extent, clearness, 
and variety, one of the most important labors of the kindlvuown to us. 

IX. Huron radical words by Father Carheil, revised by Father Potier, also 
a very ample and important work. Nos. 8 and 9 will each form a volume of 
500 pages, such as the Onondaga dictionary published by me, and their publi- 
cation is an undertaking of such magnitude tbat it can be carried out only by 
the active co-operation of those interested in philological studies. 

I thank you for the information as to the forthcoming Cree grammar, which I 
will make note of in the Histovical Magazine. 
Your obedient servant, 

JOHN GILMARY SHEA. 



Pevon, Saskatchewan, Hudson's Bay Territories, 

Jvlj 4, 1862 
Sir: I beg to forAvard to you the enclosed schedule, which I received about 
a fortnight since, and have now iiUed np according to the request of L. H. 
Morgan, esq. I have had some little difficulty in a-certaining the precise word 
for some of the relationships noted down, but I trust that the results of my 
investigations will be as free from error as can well be expected, and that the 
paper as now returned will meet the wishes of the gentleman Avho sent it to me. 
The postal arrangements of this country are in so primitive a state that I fear 
some months will elapse ere this letter and the enclosure reaches you; but it 
shall be desi)atched from here by the first opportunity that may occur. I have 
been living amongst the Cree Indians for ten years, and have long been so far 
acquainted with their language as to be able to preach to my congregations 
extempore. For some time past my scraps of spare time have been devoted to 
the work of compiling a dictionary of the native tongue, as nothing of the kind 
is yet extant, and my own experience in past years has tauglit me that it is 
greatly needed. I have now completed the first part, namely, the English-Oree, 
which contains very nearly 6,000 English words, with their corresponding 
Indian terms, and numerous idiomatic expressions; but I have still sufficient 
to occupy my disposable hours for many months in order to complete all that 
I contemplate. A friend had advised me to apply to yourself respecting the 
publication of the work Avhen finished, and it Avas my intention to do so; but as 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE REGEXTS. 95 

tlic failing lieallli of Mrs. Watkins lias compelled me to seek permission to visit 
England next summer, I have declined doing so, as probably the Church Mis- 
sionary Society, with which I am connected, may undertake to carry the Avork 
through the press while I am iu my native land, and have the opportunity of 
correcting any typographical errors which may be made in the proof-sheets. 
Still you wiil perhaps allow me to ask if the Smithsonian Institution is in tha 
habit of publishing such books as dictionaries of the native languages, and upon 
what terms it undertakes to have them printed, as I have no means of ascer- 
taining this point. If you have any circular or pamphlet at hand explanatory 
of thc^principlcs and aims of the institution with which you are officially cou- 
uectcd, I should feel much obliged by your kindly forwarding one to me. , 
Believe me, sir, yours, very obediently, 

E. A. WATKINS. 

Professor IIenry. 

The writer of this letter was informed that the Institution does piiblish works 
of the kind mentioned, if approved by a commission of examination, provided 
that no other means exists of bringing them before the public. 



Deer Creek, Xbcraska Territory, 

SejytanLcr 19, 1862. 

Honored Sir : As I am unable to express myself iu English as well as is 
necessary and as I wished, I take the liberty of sending a German letter, and 
beg for a kind excuse and acceptance of the same. 

When I arrived here two years ago, unfortunately, immediately after the 
disappearance of the missionary Brunninger, I found some publications of the 
Smithsonian Institution relating to various observations. 1 regret that I was 
neither in a position to read them cursorily through, nor had I time to even 
grasp their contents. When, hoAvever, tim.e and other business did permit, I 
looked into them carefully and found great pleasure in so doing, for which reason 
I also recognize it as my duty as far as I am able with my feeble powers to 
show my gratitude. Only I must also add with much regret that understanding 
and apparatus are wanting to me iu many branches. Because, however, I stand 
here so ignorant, I considered it to be Avell and necessary first to ask v/hether 
or with Avhat subjects I could render to your honored institution my feeble 
services. One point Avhich I in the first place considered as appropriate is the 
language of the Shyenne Indians. I have now passed a year witli them in a 
capacity which is well known to you, and for a quarter of a year I have travelled 
about with them for the purpose of learning the language, but have still learned 
comparatively little. I permit myself, however, to contribute to your honored 
institution a small extract from the treasure which I have learned and collected 
for their kind consideration. Should it be acceptable to your honored institu- 
tion, I will, if you desire, send more. In the mean time I remain, honored sir, 
with the highest esteem, your obedient, 

GEORGE FLACHEXECKER, 
Evangelical Lutheran Missionary. 

To the Smithsonian Institution. 



Honolulu, July 15, 1862. 

My Dear Sir : I am in receipt of your favors, dated April 14 and 21, en- 
closing an order from Professor Bache for tidal apparatus, which I forward to 



96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

Sau Francisco by this mail. I am in hopes to receive it, for I am not aware 
that any observations have ever been made, at a position simihir to that of our 
islands, a long distance from a coast line. 

I have also received the reports of the Smithsonian Institution for the years 
1S54-'G0, check lists of American shells, and catalogue of publications of socie- 
ties, for which I beg to return my sincere thanks. 

I forward you, per this mail, a catalogue of the works in my library relating 
to the Sandwich Islands, which I believe to be near, if not quite, complete. 
You will notice in it three periodicals, formerly published at our islands, not in 
your catalogue. They contain a few scientilic articles. Please look over the 
catalogue, and any works published here wdiich you may wish to obtain, please 
inform me, and if possible, they will be sent you. 

Your wishes in regard to a series of shells described by me shall be attended 
to. I also shall furnish you, as soon as I can obtain it, a specimen of the bat 
living on our islands, (the only indigenous mamm;il here,) for the reason that 
I received a letter by last mail from Dr. Gray, of the British Museum, acknowl- 
edging the receipt of one from me, which he decides, after a hasty examination, 
to be identical with a species common to the east and northerly part of America, 
usually called the "NeAvYork Bat." Ho was to exhibit it at the meeting of 
the Zoological Society the evening of the day he wrote me. If he is correct, it 
will be a singular exception to the laws of animal distribution. 

I am about to commence the publication of a serial work in England, on the 
Katural History of the Pacific Islands, which will be furnished you from there. 

j\[y illustrated catalogue of tlie shells of the Sandwich Islands and their 
animals must be deferred for a time, as my collector on the islauds south of the 
equator, who has been occupied near three years in searching them, informs mo 
that he has been veiy successful, having obtained 600 new land and marine 
species, and discovered facts of great value to me in regard to distribution of 
specica, &:c. 

I notice in yom- report of 1860 an annoiincement of the intended publication 
of several pamphlets on shells, three by j\Ir. Carpenter. The one on west coast 
species and one on United States expedition shells I particularly wish to see, as 
the latter 1 shall be able to correct. All pamphlets, however, on shells will be 
of use to mo. 

I beg strongly that duplicates of shells from the Indo-Pacific province may 
be sent me by the Institution; full value w-ill be returned. Are there none left 
of -Wilkes's expedition, or of Rodgers's Japan expedition ? 

All packages in future, please address to me and forward to "Wells, Fargo & 
Co., New York. 

Do not fail to make use of me in any way you may consider of value to the 
Institution. 

Yours, most truly, 

W. n. PEASE. 

Professor JosF.pii Henry. 

The books and specimens referred to in this letter have been received at the 
Institution. The species of bat so remark;ible, as being the only native mammal 
found on the Sandwich Islands, has since been ideuiilied by Dr. Gray, of the 
British Museum, as the Lasiurus Grayi, belonging to the coast of Chile. 

Hl^ADQUARTERS, GeXERAL GRANT'S ArIMY, 

Jackson, Tennessee, Korcmber 5, 1862. 

Dear Sir: A large and perhaps valuable, but incomplete, herbarium has 
fallen into my hands, captured from the confederates, or, at least, belonging to 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 97 

some institution of learning, and wanting an owner. It consists of aboiit a dozen 
thick folio volumes of plants belonging principally to West Tennessee, very neatly- 
arranged. They were gathered together by a friend of mine, and as the soldiers 
were destroying them, J. have taken charge of them, with a view of presenting them 
to some scientific institution. Please inform me if it would be worth while to 
send them to the Smithsonian Institution, and let me know whether I shall for- 
ward them by Adams's Express, so that they will go safely, and whether I must 
pay the charges, &c. 

Respectfully, &:c., 

H. R. WIRTZ, 
Surgeon United States Army, Medical Director. 
Professor Henry, 

Smithsonian Institution. 

P. S. — I have them in a box about 3 feet by 2 J. 

The collection of plants above referred to has been received, and will be 
carefully preserved separately until the close of the war. No information has 
been obtained as to the original owner or collector. 

Leipzig, May 31, 1861. 

Mv Dear Sir: In sending back, through Dr. Fliigcl, agent of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, the ferns which have been communicated to me by Dr. 
Eaton, in your name, I cannot omit to express my warmest thanks, not only for 
the kindness shown me in this instance, but also for the collection of ferns des- 
tined for the herbary of the university. 

I am under a great obligation to the Institution for having given me an oppor- 
tunity of examining these ferns, whereby it has materially assisted me in my 
studies. 

Accept the assurance of my deepest gratitude and the highest esteem. 

Yours, 

G. METTENIUS, Professor. 
Professor Dr. Henry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The ferns sent back are the ^miques of Brackenridge's collection, and will 
be placed with the rest of the collection now in Dr. Torrev's hands. 

DANIEL C. EATON. 
New York, January 13, 1863. 

Geneva, Switzerland, May 25, 1862. 

Dear Sir : Your letter of the 2Sth of February was duly received, and thai 
it has not been sooner answered must be ascribed to the throng of pressing oc- 
cupations in which 1 have been absolutely absorbed. I am under great obliga- 
tions for the interest which you have been pleased to take in procuring for me 
the books and dupUcata of your mammifers which I had requested. 

In regard to the catalogue of the Hymenoptera, 1 regret to say that I have 
not reached it, having been engrossed by various other labors. I have com- 
menced a large Avork on America, of which I have had the satisfaction of send- 
ing to the Smithsonian Institution the two first parts, the Crustacea and the 
^lyriapodes. Since then I have been engaged with the Orthoptera, and have 
proposed next to proceed with the Hymenoptera. The plates of the Ortho])tera 
will be forihwith sent to the engraver, but I have been dreadfully retarded by 
a succession of mishaps. My original draughtsman died; another whom I had 

7 S 



98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE FwEGENTS. 

trained quitted this service to engage iu that of the raih-oads ; a third found a 
lucrative place and left me to shift for myself, and the fourth threatens to do the 
same thing. Nevertheless, I hope to get through some day or other. 

My taxidermist, whom I had left in Mexico to complete my collections, after 
having done nothing but cajole me for several years, has ended by leaving the 
country without sending me anything of consequence. All this has greatly 
hindered me. Still, my descriptive treatise on the Vespidaj of America is ready, 
but I Avish to revise the manuscript and correct it from beginning to end, for it 
is my custom to leave my manuscripts in the drawer for one or two years and 
then remodel them by means of the materials I have in hand. It is only in 
this way that zoological works can be worthily composed. If you are urgent, 
however, I will leave the Orthoptera in order to take up the Wasps and will 
send you the manuscript this winter. Please indicate to me your wishes on this 
subject. 

As to the other families, I cannot undertake them till I have done with the 
Orthoptera and the Wasps. But as you seem in haste, I think your best course 
would be to intrust this work to some American whose special line of study 
lies in that direction, and Mr. Edward Norton is well qualified for it. With the 
same view I have already prevailed on him to take iu hand the Ichneumonidce. 

It would be impossible to make purely and simply a catalogue of the Hyme- 
noptera. The number of known species is much too restricted. There would 
be needed a descriptive work, and you could not acquit yourself of it under 
less than ten large volumes. The labor upon the Hymenoptera is a colossal 
cue. When I shall have published the Wasps, I will see whether I can under- 
take another family for you, and believe that I can ; but, trust me, you must 
proceed by families or you will have nothing satisfactory. 

I take this opportunity of informing you that in July I shall forward to you 
a package containing three memoirs of mine and my map of Mexico ; and in 
addition, certain books for several learned Americans. Have you Saussure's 
Treatise dn Hygromctry 1 Be so kind as to have the books distributed accord- 
to the address of each. 

Please accept, dear sir, my cordial good wishes and the expression of my entire 
esteem. 

D. H'Y DE gAUSSURE.- 

P. S. — If you have still any'Vespidce to send mc to complete my manuscript, 
it will be necessary to do so soon, that 1 may be enabled to employ them as 
materials. My manuscript will form a volume in 8vo. 

You will inexpressibly oblige me if you will have the recent American work 
on Tehuantepec sent to me. 

We have since learned that the manuscript work on the Vespidce or Wasps 
of America, mentioned in the foregoing letter, has been completed. It will be 
published as soon as practicable after it has been received and translated from 
the French 



New York, September 16, 1862. 

Dear Sir: My brother wishes me to address you in regard to a cabinet of 
minerals which he Avould like to sell to the Smithsonian Institution. He has a 
collection of minerals, mostly Californian and Mexican, between 2,000 and 
3,000 in number, and containing about $1,500 in gold and silver. His reason 
for selling is, that it is entirely too valuable to retain iu his office, as he is afraid 
of being robbed. He asks $3,000 for it, and refers to Professor Whitney, of 
California, for an examination. 

Y"ou would confer a favor by returning an answer to this note when conve- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE EEGENTS. 99 

niont; and perhaps, if the Smithsonian Institution does not want the colh^ction, 

you may be cognizant of some other institution which might desire to obtain it. 

Very respectfully, yours, &:c., 

Professor Henry. . 

The foregoing is one of many propositions to sell specimens of natural his- 
t(^ry, &c., to all of which the answer has been made that the Institution does 
not purchase articles of the kind. 

The following letter was received from M. Romero, Mexican minister, in 
reply to a request made to him to furnish a letter to facilitate the cx^jlorations 
of Mr. Xantus, in Mexico : 

Washington, December 4, 1862. 

Dear Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 1st instant, informing me of the object of the appointment of jMr. John 
Xantus as United States consul at Manzanillo, and asking me to furnish him 
with such letter of introduction for the governors of the States of Colima, Mi- 
choacan, and the adjacent ones, as may help him in the prosecution of the sci<^n- 
titic investigations he intends to make in a portion of western Mexico whose 
natural productions are very little known. 

Being desirous to contribute to the success of Mr. Xautus's scientific researches 
and labors, I enclose you herewith letters of introduction for the governors of 
the States of Michoacan, Jalisco, Colima, and Sinaloa, which I hope will fully 
answer his purpose. Should he desire letters for any other governor, I will 
furnish him with them as soon as you let me know it. 

As regards the entrance of the scientific apparatus Mr. Xantus may t;ike 
with him to be used in making collections in natural history for the museum in 
charge of your Institution, I ani happy to say that I think he will not ha-s'e 
any difficulty with the customs authorities at Manzanillo, such articles being free 
from duty according to the Mexican tariff. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

M. ROMERO. 

Professor Joseph Henry, 

Secretary -f the Smithsonian Institution, 8^ 



EULOGY 

ON 

HON. JAMES A. PEAIICE, OF MARYLAND 

UNITED STATSS SENATOR, 

ONE OF THE REGENTS OF THE S3,1ITHS0NIAN INSTITUTION, 

BY 
Prof. A. D. BACIIE, LL. D., SupeirateuJent of the U. S. Coast Siu-vey. 



At a moeting of tlie Board of Regents of tlie Smithsonian Institution, held 
January 31, 1S63, Professor Henry, the Secretary, announced the death of 
Hon. James A. Pcarce, one of the Regents. 

Prof Bache, after appropriate remarks, otTered the following resohitions, which 
were unanimously adopted : 

Resolred, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution deeply mourn the loss 
of their distinguished fellow-regent, JAMES ALFEED PEAKCE. 

Resolved, That in the death of Mr. Pearce our country has lost a refined and influential 
citizen, the Senate of the United States an able, judicious, honest statesman, and this institu- 
tion an active, intelligent, and learned Regent. 

Resolved, That we sincerely condole with the afflicted family of Mr. Pearce, and offer to 
them our heartielt sympathy in their great bereavement. 

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution to the family of the deceased. 

On motion of Mr. TrluMBULX, it was — 

Resolved, That Professor Bache be requested to furnish a copy of his remarks in relation 
to Hon. James A. Pearce, for insertion in the journal of the Board of Regents. 



EULOGY, 



Again has death invaded our circle, and taken from our councils and our 
active sympathies one of the most admirably gifted intellects which has at any 
time been called upon to shape the destiny or direct the labors of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. A member of the executive committee from nearly the sec- 
ond year of the organization under the act of Congress of 1846, attentive to 
every detail, whether scientific, administrative, or financial, j\lr. Pearce wa.s 
always prompt at the call of every duty. His entire and cordial acquiescence 
in the form of organization adopted for the Institution, his liberal and zealous 
co-operation with the Board of Regents, his earnest support of, and unfaltering 



EULOGY. 101 

confidence in, the discretion and integrity of its Secretary, were as conspicuous 
as they were productive of the most lasting and important benefits. And though 
it is true that the general form and policy of the Institution were determined 
under the authority of Congress, by its first Board of Regents, yet it is quite as 
certain that strenuous action was afterwards needed to maintain it in its adopted 
course, and secure it from projected innovations which, though strenuously 
advocated at the time, few now regard with aught but disfavor. To this end no 
one lent more effectual aid than our lamented colleague. Although, from taste 
and the conditions of his active life, he might more properly be styled a literary 
man, yet were his scientific attainments by no means inconsiderable, and a liberal 
and cultivated mind, which admitted of no narrow views, enabled him to em- 
brace, in all its comprehensive simplicity, the idea of the generous foreigner 
who, in founding this Institution, consecrated his fortune to "the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men." 

In whatever Mr. Pearce engaged he exhibited the same spirit. Marked as a 
leader from his boyhood, at school as at college, in his profession as in the 
councils of the nation, in his neighborhood, hit State, his country, as well as in 
the church to which he had dedicated his faith, he stood distinguished for au 
enlightened estimate and an efiicient support of whatever is elevated and calcu- 
lated to elevate. To him the work of construction was ever far more congenial 
than that of demolition ; to improve and preserve was an instinct, to confound 
and destroy, an innate a-\'ersion of, his nature. Refined in his tastes, brilliant in 
society, instructive from the affluence of his ideas and extent of information, 
without ostentation as without pretension, social, genial, even playful among his 
intimates — such was the associate whom we must long moiu-n, feeling that at 
the council board as in the familiar and frietully circle, we have lost one wJio 
strengthened us in our adhesion to what is right, good, or true, while ever prompt 
to lead us Avherever progress held out rational hopes of improvement. 

Generally, men of the temperament we have described are impatient of details ; 
but this was not at all so with our departed friend. It afforded him pleasure to 
systematize and reduce to order even the dry det;Uls of finance, and a wonderful 
memory and a quick perception enabled him to pass them in rapid review with 
a scrutiny of every pari'.cular. His mental vision was as minute as compre- 
hensive, and his analytical faculty never dismissed a subject of investigation 
until he was thoroughly satisfied with the arrangement, the method, the results : 
in a word, he was content with litth- less than the perfection of whatever occu- 
pied his attention or claimed his solicitde. 

The objects which in Congress occupied most of his attention, and Avhich it 
gave him most pleasure to defend and sustain, were those connected with litera- 
ture and science, and in these he showed the same qualities which as chairman 
of our executive committee he has here so often exliibited. With the great 
interests of state and the high objects of national politics he was abundantly quali- 
fied to grapple; in fact, Ik- shrunk from no occasion in which to exert himself when 
enlarged views and skilful powers of debate could be rendered serviceable to his 
country or the world. But if duty called upon him from time to time for such 
efforts, still it was to objects promotive of art and science and high civilization, 
to means for man's moral and intellectual improvement, and for the enlargement 
of his knowledge and power over nature, that he turned with ever new and un- 
wearied interest. To him probably more than to any other senator the library 
of Congress was indebted for the augmented fund which it has now for some 
years enjoyed, and for the care taken in the selection of the materials which 
render its shelves so useful. The exploring expedition Avas more than once 
indebted to his earnest and persistent efiorts for the continuance of the means 
of publication of its results ; the Coast Survey for expositions of its importance 
to the country and the world ; the Smithsonian for Avarding off assaults, and 
reconciling enthusiastic but misguided opposition ; the naval and military cxpe- 



102 EULOGY. 

ditions, boundary surveys, and explorations, for close, searcliing; investigations, 
which led to important impiovements and to cordial support. The great work 
of the extension of the Capitol found in him a wise advocate and judicious friend. 
Not afraid of what was new, he yet aimed at nothing for the sake of novelty. 
In connexion with the decoration of our public buildings, our sculptors and 
painters found in him a most enlightened appreciator of their works, and one 
always ready to promote the great cause of their art by legitimate means. 

He had a remarkable power of attaching to himself men of science, literature, 
and art, and, in return, found in them some of his most intimate and highly- 
prized companionships. Ilia friendships were waru, and once formed, were 
proof against all trials of absence or change of fortune. Many of his ardent 
attachments reverted to the friends and associates of his parents, and to family 
relations of even an older date, acquiring in his breast a sacred title by the 
claims of the past. 

The genial elements of his character naturally expanded most freely in the 
circle of his fomily and friends, where he was truly and ever at home. His 
garden, its fruits and llowers, were his habitual delight ; his farm and its opera- 
tions seemed to touch by association the springs of his deepest affections. He 
superintended every process with a judgment rarely at fault, and watched all 
the varied developments of nature with tlu' interest of the amateur or the natur- 
alist. Whoever had not seen Mr. Pearce in his dwelling, in his garden, or upon 
his farms, knew him but imperfectly. 

James Alfred Pearce, the colleague, the counsellor, the friend, to whom 
we must now bid a final adieu, was born in the town of Alexandria, then part 
of the District of Columbia, December 14, 1805. His parents, who were of 
Scottish descent, and citizens of Maryland, dying during his childhood, the care 
of his education devolved upon his maternal grandfather, the late Dr. Dick, of 
Alexandria, an eminent physician of that day, who will be remembered by the 
student of American history as having been one of the medical attendants who 
ministered at the dying bed of Washington. So rapid yet thorough was the 
progress of th(3 young student in the rudimentary stages of education, that he 
graduated at Princeton College at the boyish age of seventeen, bearing away 
from competitors of no ordinary ability, and much subsequent distinction, the 
highest honors of his class. Having adopted the law as his profession, and 
permanently settled at Chcstertown, Maryland, the former residence of his 
parents, he soon received the earnest of future success in the confidence, affec- 
tion, and support of the community — a community to whose favor he might, 
indeed, already look forward iu virtue of the memory of a meritorious and dis- 
tinguished ancestry. His first step upon the more public stage which was 
thenceforth to be the scene of his labors and success was his unsolicited election 
to the legislature of Maryland, in 1831. From that day, with a single inter- 
val of two years, his talents and time were devoted to the service of his fellow- 
citizens in the halls of legislation, his career having led -him, by a progression 
founded on the uncanvassed but ever-increasing confidence and respect of the 
people, through the House of Representatives to the Senate chamber, in which 
he was fulfilling the unexpired term of a third election at the period of his 
death. 

His characteristic qualities and tendencies as a legislator have been already 
slightly touched upon in this memorial, but whoever recalls the momentous 
events, the gigantic and often acrimonious struggles for ascendency, the por- 
tentous and brilliant debates which, from 1S35 to 1861, fixed the public at- 
tention, and excited the alternate hopes and fears of contending parties ; 
whoever pictures to himself the majestic forms which then occupied the legis- 
lative arena, will remember that, thrcjugh all these events, and measuring him- 
self in no unequal competition with the foremost men of that earnest time, 
our colleague continued to advance steadily in public appreciation, to fill a yet 



EULOGY. 103 

wider and wider space in the eyes of the country, that on him rests no imputa- 
tion of having ever purchased favor or advancement by a sacrifice of the slightest 
principle, or of having once deviated into any of those equivocal positions which 
sometimes bring disrepute on illustrious names ; whoever shall recall and consider 
these things will undoubtedly be qualified to form a more adequate and vivid 
conception of his labors and his worth than could be derived from any por- 
traiture which this occasion would permit, or perhaps even the most labored 
eulogy could supply. 

Nor were striking testimonials wanting to his peculiar and conspicuous merits : 
it rested but with himself to have occupied positions of the highest public dis- 
tinction. A place in the cabinet and a seat in the federal judiciary Avere suc- 
cessively offered him ; on more than one occasion his name was publicly can- 
vassed in connexion with the presidency of the United States. The former, 
however, he declined ; the latter he steadily discountenanced. He seems to have 
felt that the Senate chamber was the proper sphere for his peculiar tastes and 
powers — a sphere equal to his well-regulated ambition, not below his admitted 
merit. The patronage incident to the executive branch of government involves 
much that would have been repugnant to his feelings ; the judiciary has objections 
peculiar to itself in the ever-recurrent and monotonous, nature of its functions ; 
the representative department of Congress was for him too much influenced by 
the fluctuations of popular opinion. The Senate, in the stability of its tenure, 
and the vivacity and variety of its discussions, in its character of a consultative 
and executive as well as legislative body, in the dignity and importance of its 
deliberations, involving the interests of States and the relations of national inter- 
course, seemed exactly fitted to give scope to his abilities, and to satisfy every 
aspiration he might indulge for usefulness or consideration. Perhaps it was in 
the committee-room that bis influence made itself more particularly felt, for here 
the extent of his information, the weight of his character, the directness and 
integrity of his purpose, his patience for details, his familiarity with the forms 
of business, and aptitude in applying them with logical acuteness to the disen- 
tanglement of questions of fact and law, his co-operative spirit, his genial and 
companionable nature and manner, all conspired to give authority to his decisions, 
and to conciliate reliance and acquiescence on the part of those with Avhom he 
acted. 

Had Mr. Pearce not embraced the profession of law, he would doubtless, under 
suitable circumstances, have been celebrated as an agriculturist. Had he not 
resigned himself to political life, he could not have failed of eminence in science 
or in literature. It is indeed rare to meet with one whose capabilities and excel- 
lencies were so varied and so distinct, nor is it possible that, knov/ing him as I 
have done, I should speak of him otherwise than frankly and from the heart, 
though conscious of the imperfect representation which I have been able to give 
of a man so intrinsically great in all the elements which constitute true greatness, 
so entirely beloved for all that refers itself to the amenities of social intercourse 
and the sacred endearments of home. 

In conclusion, it is proper to add that the peculiarities which marked his char- 
acter during the active years of his life exhibited themselves in the closing period 
of his career under a new but harmonious aspect. Afflicted with an incurable 
malady, he contemplated his approaching end and endured his intense suffer- 
ing with the unwavering fliith and resigned patience of a Christian. The reli- 
gious principles which he had imbibed in childhood, and which had perhaps im- 
perceptibly formed the basis of his character, became the dominant objects of hm 
thoughts, and the consolation and happiness of his last hours. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



REPORT FOR 1862. 



The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution 
by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish 
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and 
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge. 



LE CTURES 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LiaHT, 

By F. a. p. BARNARD, S. T. D. , LL. D., 

LATE CHA^•CELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI. 



[In prepcaring the material of these lectures for publication, some transpositions have 
been made in the original order of topics, and the lecture form has been generally aban- 
doned. Mathematical illustrations have also been occasionally introduced, which would 
not have been quite in place before a popular audience.] 



PAMT I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

OUTLINE OF OPTICAL DISCOVERY. 

The ivnowledge which we possess of the material objects surrounding us in 
the universe is principally received through the sense of vision. From the 
other senses we derive a much more limited range of impressions. The touch 
furnishes us with a valuable means of confirming or correcting the information 
we receive from sight; but its usefulness extends only to objects in our own 
immediate vicinity. The hearing, though through it, by the aid of spoken lan- 
guage, we are supplied with a vast multitude of ideas which have had their 
origin in impressions previously made upon other senses, contributes of itself, 
in any other form, but very slightly to the great stock of our knowledge. 

Such therefore being the pre-eminence of vision among the senses, light, 
which is its medium, is, and has ever been, the most important of physical 
instrumentalities in promoting the intellectual development of the human race, 
and making progress a possibility. But, while occupying this peculiar relation 
to the history of our advancement in the knowledge of nature, while so fertile 
in the revelations it has unfolded to us of the properties and qualities of other 
things, it is remarkable that light has itself furnished, in its own nature, one of 
the most difficult and perplexing of all the subjects of physical inquiry; so 
that, even down to an advanced period of the present century, the world of 
science may be said to have been upon no other subject more widely at vari- 
ance than upon the elementary and fundamental question. What is light? 

Nor is it possible to explain tliis want of harmony by supposing the inquiry 
to have but recently originated. Since, in the physical world, light has 
been the ever present and ever most efficient handmaid of the human un- 
derstanding, its phenomena must, to some extent at least, have attracted the 
attention of the first intelligent inhabitants of our planet. The first man who 
breathed could not have failed to notice the images of visible objects, formed 
by reflection in the bosom of every quiet pool; and the first rude navigator 



108 EARLY WRITERS OX OPTICS. 

who endeavored to float liirusclf from sliorc to shore, across waters too deep to 
be traversed by ordinary and simpler expedients, mnst have been strnck by the 
sing:nlar distortion of his paddle at the line where it entered the water. The 
natural alternations of light and darkness, their coincidence with the rising and 
setting of the sun, the appearance and disappearance of the stars, the changes 
of the moon, the rainbow in the clouds, the dilfcrences between different bodies 
as luminous and non-luminous, transparent and opaque, and finally the very 
fact of vision itself — all these phenomena constantly, from the earliest times, 
presenting th(>mselves without being sought, must have excited the curiosity of 
men and invited investigation, centuries before the systematic study of nature, 
in any of her varied dejiartments, had had a beginning. 

But the difficulties which per])lcx the inquiry manifest themselves in the im- 
perft'ction of the speculations Avhich have come down to us from the earliest 
philosophers regarding the subject, and in the extremely slow progress of dis- 
covery which marks much of the later history of this interesting branch of 
ecience. A notion was for a very long time prevalent among the ancients that 
vi.-ion is effected by means of rays proceeding irom the eye to the object. This 
idea is not found in Aristotle; but it was introduced into the schooi of Plato, 
and continued to be received for many centuries. The persistency of the doc- 
trine is remarkable, inasmuch as the light which is self-evidently indispensable 
to vision, proceeds from soitrces foreign to the observer. 

The elementary phenomena of reflection and refraction suggest a natural 
division of the science of optics into two branches; and this distinction is made 
by the earliest systematic writer on the subject whose works have descended 
to us. This was Euclid — supposed to have been the geometrician of that 
nam(^ — who lived about oOO years before our era. The general laws which 
govern the reflection of light, being comparatively easy of detection, were stated 
by him with tolerable correctness; but what he has written on refraction is of 
little value. 

Ptolemy, the astronomer of Alexandria, who was born about the year 70 of 
our era, attempted to discover the law of refraction by experiment. His appa- 
ratus was ingenious, and was not different in principle from that which has been 
employed by Silbermann, Soleil, and others, in our own time, for the same pur- 
pose. He measured the angles of refraction corresponding to A'arioiis angles of 
incidence, between 0"" and 90^, for both water and glass, and left his measure- 
ments recorded in his System of Optics. In order that we may judge of the 
degree of accuracy attained by him it is necessary to anticipate what is to follow, 
so far as to define, in this place, a few technical expressions. By the angle of 
incidrnre made by light falling upon a reflecting or refracting surface, is 
meant the angle between the raif and {ho, perpendicular to the surface. By the 
angle of refraction is meant the angle between the ray which has passed 
through the surface and the same perpendicular on the other side. By the 
angle" of reflection \& meant, in like manner, the angle between the reflected 
rav and the perpendicular. By the plane of incidence, the plane of refraction, 
or the plane of reflection is meant the plane which contains the incident ray 
and the perpendicular, the refracted ray and the perpendicular, or the reflected 
ray and the perpendicular. All these planes are coincident, except in cases 
where double refraction takes place, when one of the planes of refraction is not 
usually coincident Avith the corresponding plane of incidence. 

As a measure of the amount of deviation or change of direction produced in 
a ray by refraction, the sine of any given angle of incidence is divided by the 
sine of the corresponding angle of refraction, which latter is determined by ob- 
servation. The quotient is constant for the same substance, no matter what be 
the angle of incidence taken. It is called the index of refraction. The con- 
stancy of this quotient was not known to I'tolcmy. The discovery of its con- 



SNELLIUS— LAW OF EEFRACTION. 109 

stancy, at a comparatively recent period, marks an era in the history of the 
science ; and it Avas, as we shall see, the discovery of the laiv of refraction. 

TIk; ascertained index of refraction for water is 1.33582. If we m:dce a com- 
pntation of its value from the measured angles of Ptolemy, we find a mean of 
1.30147. But if we take his measurements at the incidence of SO-", where the 
relative variations of the angles of incidence and refraction are most marked and 
most easily measured, we obtain 1.33555, which is exceedingly near the truth. 

The true index of refraction for glass is between 1.48 and l.GO, according to 
the materials and density. Crown glass varies from below 1.50 to about 1.525. 
Ptolemy's mean determination would be 1.4S4. But at 50° he approaches 
nearer the truth, his angles giving 1.5321. 

For rays passing from water to glass, the relative index computed from his 
measurements would be 1.1390, the true being 1.14145. The near agreement 
of these numbers with niodcrn determinations is remarkable, cspecnally consid- 
ering that Ptolemy's measures arc given only to the nearest half degree. 

Ptolemy was unable, however, to derive any practical advantage from these 
results, since the magnitudes of the angles seemed to be governed by no law 
Avhich he could detect. And in this unsatisfactory condition the whole subject 
of refraction remained for the fifteen succeeding centuries. 

As an astronomer, Ptolemy could hardly fail to notice the effect of atmos- 
pheric refraction upon the ai)parent positions of the heavenly bodies; and he 
has the merit of having recognized the fact, which others after him disputed, 
that the displacement is always in a vertical plane, and also that it attains its 
maximum in the horizon and is zero in the zenith. 

About half a century later than Ptolemy flourished Claudius Galen, the cele- 
brated Greek ])hysician. In a treatise on the uses of the members of the human 
bodv he speaks at some length of the phenomena of vision, and lays down the 
fundamental law on which the stereoscope has been very recently constructed, 
that the picture which we see of a solid body is made up of two pictures dis- 
similar to each other, one seen by each eye separately. 

But it was impossible that optical science should make any important pro- 
gress so long as the law which determines the path of a ray in passing from one 
medium to another remained unknown. We are compelled, therefore, to descend 
to the earlier portion of the 17th century before we find a practicable ground on 
which to build a systematic science, or lay even a foundation for the splendid 
superstructure which the futun; had in reserve in this department of physical 
inquiry. In the year 1626 Wdlebrord Snellius, professor of mathematics at 
Leyden, died at an early age, leaving behind hiin manuscripts, among which was 
contained a statement of the important law in question under the following form: 
If MN be a ])lane horizontal surface, dividing a denser 
medium below it from a rarer one above, and if a point at D 
-^~be observed by the eye at A, the apparent place of D will be 
at B, vertically above D, in the line AC produced ; and what- 
ever be th(! inclination of the ray to the surface, the line CD 
Fig. 1. v.'ill be to the line CB in a constant ratio. Or, if CD be made 

the radius of the circular arc FDQ, and DE be drawn perpendicular to the 
surface, the radius CI, being the visual ray AC produced, will be divided at B 
in a constant ratio. If, at F, we draw to the circle the tangent FII, producing 
CD and CB to meet it at II and G, then CH and CG, which have the same 
ratio to each other as CD and CB, will be the secants of the angles HCF 
and GCF, or the co-secants of the angles HCQ and GCQ, ( — ACP,) formed 
by the refracted and incident rays with the perpendicular, PQ, to the refract- 
ing surface MN, technically called the angles of refraction and of incidence. 
Tlie geometrical law of Sn(dlius, therefore, translated into the language of 
trigonometry, is this : That when a ray, passing from one medium to another, 
underiroes refraction at the common surface, the ratio of the co-secaut of the 




110 



EFFECTS OF EEFRACTION. 



angle of incidence to the co-secant of the angle of refraction is constant. As 
the co-secants of angles are inversely as the sines of the same angles, the law 
may be more conveniently expressed by saying that, in the circumstances sup- 
posed, tlie sines of the angles mentioned arc in a constant ratio. It was in this 
form that the law was first published by Descartes, eleven years after the death 
of Snellius. It is, therefore, frequently referi'ed to as the law of Descartes. 

It may be proper to mention that, previously to the discovery of this impor- 
tant law by Snellius, it had been remarked by the illustrious Kepler that for 
incidences below thirty degrees a ratio almost constant exists between the angles 
of incidence and of refraction themselves. This is true because for small angles 
the increments of the arc and of the sine are nearly proportional. But when the 
incidence is moderately large, the divergency of the two ratios becomes very 
wide. 

An examination of the figure given above will show that the refraction of a 
plane surface produces no distortion in lines which are at right angles to the 
surface, but only diminishes or increases their apparent length according as the 
medium in which the object is situated is denser or rarer than that on the side 
of the observer. Thus the line ED is reduced to the apparent length EB. 
The amount of this reduction increases with the obliquity of the visual ray, for 
the ratio of CD to CB, which is constant, is always less (except when the 
incidence is perpendicular) than the ratio of ED to EB, and the divergency 
of these ratios is always increasing. It follows that the apparent depth of a 
fluid is always less than the real depLh, and that the illusion is more striking in 
proportion as the point obi^erved is more remote from that immediately beneath 
the eye. Thus the horizontal bottom of a cistern or pool of uniform depth 

presents a curved appearance like 
that here represented. If MN be 
the surfacg and KL the horizontal 
plane at the bottom of a sheet of 
water, the eye being placed at the 
point P above it, this plane will 
present a conchoidal appearance 
like that of the curve D 'E 'A". 
^J'he position of the points of the 
bottom which, to an eye situated at P, appear iu the directions PD, PE, &c , 
may be found by a simple geometrical construction. Drawing the perpendicular 
PAA', divide the depth AA' at the point A.", so that AA' shall be to AA" 
in the ratio of m to 1 : — n being the index of refraction. Through A" draw 
VW parallel to the surface. Produce PD, PE, &c., until they intersect the 
bottom at CI and II, and with the radii DE and EH describe the circular arcs 
GG' and HIP. Through G" and II" where DG, EH, intersect VW, draw per- 
pendiL'ulars to the bottom, intersecting the arcs in G' and IP. Join DG' and 
EIP. The points D' and E', where the joining lines intersect the bottom, are 
the points which will be seen from P in the directions PD, PE, and the ap- 
parent positions of those points will be at D" and E", where the visual rays 
PD and PE produced meet perpendiculars drawn from D', E', to the surface. 
Any number of points being thus found, the curve drawn through thcin all 
will show the appearance of the level bottom M'N' as it is seen from a point 
above the surface as P. This curve is a conchoid, whose polar equation is 




r=2)i>cccp + seccr' ; 



VI^ 



in which j) is put for PA, q for AA', n for the index of refraction, <p for the 
angle EPA, and <p' for EE'E". 

• It is apparent from the foregoing that all lines seen through a single plane 
refracting surface, unless they are perpendicular to the surface iiself, are more 



UNEQUAL REFRAXGIBILITY OF DIFFERENT COLORS HI 

or less distorted. A straight rod partly immersed in water, as FD', appears 
sharply bent at the surface, and slightly curved beneath, assuming the appnreut 
direction OD". Moreover, though, as in this case, the real direction should 
pass through the eye, so that in a uniform medium, only the extremity could be 
visible, the effect of refraction gives a lateral view of all th(; part immersed. 

The next important step in the progress of optical discovery, after the detec- 
tion of the general law of refraction, was made by the illustrious Newton, who, 
in the year 1672, communicated to the Royal Society the experimental resean-hes 
by which he established the compound nature of light, and the unequal refran- 
gibility of its component rays, lie held that the common white light of the 
sun is made up of elementary rays differing at the same time in color and in 
refrangibility. The number of tints vvhich he considered sufficiently distinct 
to be regarded as independent components is seven. It seems unnecessary, 
however, to suppose the existence of more than three elementary colors, it being 
possible, by mingling these in various proportions, to produce all the rest, while 
the degrees of refrangibility between the extreme limits vary through an infi- 
nite number of infinitely small differences. 

Newton's method of demonstrating the truth of his doctrine was as simple 
as it is ingenious. The colors which border the images of objects observed 
through prisms of glass or other transparent substances, or through cylindrical 
or globular vessels filled with water, had long been familiar. Newton placed 
such a prism in the path of a ray of the sun's light, introduced through a small 
aperture into a dark room, and received the refracted image or spectrum upon a 
white screen placed at some distance. Before the interposition of the prism 
the beam produced upon the screen a white and circular image of the sun itself. 
But after the rays had been bent by refraction the image appeared very much 
elongated in the direction of the refraction, and brilliantly colored in a series of 
tints, passing by insensible gradations from red, through orange, ydlow, green, 
blue, and indigo to violet. This last color was at the end most refracted. In 
turning the prism around an axis parallel to its edges, Newton observed that 
the deviation of the spectrum from the original direction of the sun's rays was 
variable, increasing from a certain minimum (experimentally found) by turuino- 
the prism either to the right or to the left. This minimum corresponds to that 
particular position of the prism at which the angles of incidence and emergence 
are equal. Upon this observation he founded a test experiment in regard to the 
refrangibility of the rays of different colors. ^Making a small circular aperture 
in the screen upon which the spectrum was formed, at a point where, by turn- 
ing the prism, he could pass tlie entire spectrum over it, he placed behind the 
aperture a second prism, which thus received, successively, rays of a single 
color only. At a distance behind the second prism a second screen intercepted 
the light which passed through it, when it was observed that this second image, 
instead of being elongated like the first, remained sensibly circular, while the 
positions of the circles of different colors upon the screen w(!re further and 
further removed from the original direction of the unrefractcd rays as the tints 
a-ceuded from red to violet. This phenomenon of the separation of the compo- 
nent colors of light by refraction has been called dispersion. Newton was of 
opinion that the dispersive powers of all bodies are equal; or, in other words, 
proportional to their refractive powers; and that, the mean refractive; powers of 
two bodies being equal, their refractive powers for each particular color must be 
equal also. Both these suppositions, as we shall see, are unfounded. 

The discovery of Newton furnished an easy explanation of the interesting- 
natural phenomenon of the rainbow. This beautiful meteor had been the sub- 
ject of many unsatisfactory speculations; and though rfc X>w«//^/.y, as early as 
IGll, had furnished a true theory of the manner of formation of the inner bow, 
he had not been able to account for its colors. He showed that therci is a certain 
incidence at which, if the parallel rays of the sun fall upon the anterior surface 



112 THE RAINEO\Y. 

of a transparent globe, tliey will be reflected from witliin so as to emerge, still 
parallel to each other, at a point on the other side of the centre. The emergent 
rayy will form a constant angle with the incident rays, and, entering the eye 
of the observer standing with his back to the sun, will form the same angle with 
a line supposed to be drawn from the sun through the eye. This line from the 
sun through the eye being made an axis, and the above supposed reflected ray 
being revolved around it, there will be traced out in the heavens a circle, from 
every part of which, if rain-drops are present, there will come an amount of 
light above that which is reflected from the surrounding cloud. 

This explanation satisfactorily determines the loais of the bow; but it fails 
to account for its tints, or the extent of surface over which they are spread. It 
would require that the arc should be white, and that it should be no broader 
than the sun ; that is to say, that its brc^adth should be only about half a degree. 
The actual breadth of the inner bow is, hoAvever, two degrees and a quarter; 
and that of the outer three degrees and three quarters. Newton's discovery 
furnished the necessary supplement to the theory. 

In fact, if the circumference PP'P" be a section 
through the centre of a transparent globe, and IP a 
ray of the sun falling on it in this plane, it is easy to 
see that this ray. or portions of i^ will itndergo many 
reflections within the globe, Avhile portions will succes- 
sively emerge at the points in which reflection takes 
place. There will first be some loss by external reflec- 
tion in the direction PR. The portion which enters 
the globe will be bent, by refraction, from the original 
direction PK to the direction PP'. At P' a portion 
will emerge in the direction PE, being bent from the 
direction PQ as much as PP' Avas bent from PK. 
The same thing occurs at P' , P"', and so on. Put j = the angle of incidence 
(the angle made by the incident ray Avith the radius; — the angles of emer- 
gence are all of this same value. Put /> for the angle of refraction. The figure 
shows that all the angles of internal reflection have this value. Let <5 represent 
the bending or deviation of the ray by refraction at each incidence or emer- 
gence. Then <5rr:£ — p. And the amount of deflection of the successive re- 
flected rays from the original direction being represented by D, D'' — -I^('")' 

and that of the successively emergent rays by J, J' D("^), Ave shall have 

(an entire circumference being denoted by 2-) 
Deflection of PP'=o; deflection of PE=J=;2'r 

Deflection of P P"=D=2cJ+-— 2/> ; deflection of P"E'=J'=2o + -— 2/). 
Deflection of P"P'"=D'=.5-f 2-— 4,o; deflection of P'''E''— J"— 2(J+2-— 4/>. 
Deflection preceding m\\\ emergencerrD(^"'):^(J + 77«(- — 2^o) ; deflection m\\x 
emcrgence=ziI(™j=2') + ;«(- — 2,o). 

If, for 0, Ave put its value ir^t — [>, we shall have— 
J'— 2£ + -— 4,o. 
J"— 2.' + 2-— 6,o. 
J(m)=2:-f7«-— 2(7«-f l),o. 

The laAV of the formation of these expressions is obvious. The deflection 
of each of the succi^gsively emergent rays is increased at each reflection within 
the globe by the angular amount - — 2/^. 

Now, as all these values contain the angle i, it is obvious that the deflections 
cannot be equal Avlien the incidences are unequal ; or, in other AA'ords, that the 
(■inergent rays will usually diverge from each other. Moreover, the deflections 
do not regularly increase and diminish Avith the incidence. 
Putting the iiicidence=^0°, J'^ISO^', and J"-=3G0°, 
Putting the int:idence^=90^, J'=16G°, and J"=24S°, ) i /• 

Putting the incidence^? 0% J'.^139^ and J"-^229^ j ^^'^"^'' *°^ ^^''^^®^- 




THE EAINBOW. Ho 

Neither of the last values is intermediate Ixitwcen the two precefling in th(- 
same column. In both cases, therefore, there appears to be some point between 
the extreme incidc-'nces, where the deflection is a minimum ; and it being the 
law of maxima and minima that variations in their vicinity are insensii)lc, it 
follows that near the incidences corresponding to those values the emergent rays 
will be sensibly parallel. But when the general expression — 

J ('i»^ =2 £ + ?«-— 2 7»+l)/> 
becomes a minimum*, the cosine of the incidence must have the value — 



^Vr "-' 



{?}i+lf — 1, 
in which n denotes the index of refraction. 

This determines, therefore, the incidences at which the deflections are minima : 
and hence, those at which the emergent rays are (to use the term employed b}' 
Newton) effic.ucious . It will be seen that, when the index of refraction is given, 
the value of cost will be affected only by the variable m, which is the number 
of internal reflections. If this be made zero, cost will be infinite; in oth"r 
words, when the rays are not reflected at all, they do not emerge efficacious. 

By putting w=l and m=^2 we shall obtain values corresponding to the de- 
flections which produce what are called the inner and outer bows. From these 
values we may deduce the apparent diameters of the arcs ; and the theoretic 
results thus obtained are found to accord with actual measurements. By putting 
m==2, 4, 5, &c., successively, we may obtain the loci of an infinite number of 
additional bows; but after the second reflection, the light ceases to be intense 
enough to produce an impression on the eye. 

Snrce, with a very slight alteration of : the rays cease to be efficacious, it i^ 
evident that, if the sun were but a point, and the index n invariable, the bow 
Avould be reduced to a simple line of light. But as every point of tlie sun will 
produce its separate bow, the visible breadth, with n constant, would be that 
of the sun itself — that is, about half a degree. Newton's experiments on dis- 
persion, however, showed that the value of the index n sufficiently varies, in 
passing from the red to the violet, to alter sensibly the angle of inciclence cor- 
responding to the efficacious rays of the several colors, and sufficient, accord- 
ingly, to alter the amount of deflection which those several rays undergo before 
reaching the eye. As the bows appear in the direction of these deflected rays, 
it follows that the different colors will not be superposed, and that the breadth 
of the compound bow Avill be greater than the breadth of the sun by the total 
amount of their want of conformity. The index for the red may be taken at 
1.346; that for the violet at l.ooo. Employing these values, we have for the 
bow by one reflection : 

Violet rays.. £v = 58= 40'. J'^ = 1C9°43'. Radius of bow = 40° 17'. 
Redrays tr = 59=23^'. J'^ = 137^ 58^-'. Radius of bow = 42° 1§'. 



* The general expression for the deflection beiug — 

A("')=2i-{-/»7r— ::;(?7i-f 1 )p, 
its differential is (/A(™)^2</t— 2(»«-{-l)rfp ; which, when A('") is a uiiuiuuini, is equal tu zero. 

di 
From this we obtain the ratio. -~^z^m-\-\. 

From the Sncllian law, sini=Msiup, w being the index of refraction. This furnishes au- 
another value of the same ratio, since cos«dt;=;Hcospr//>. 

^ di ricos/j 

Or, — -=: =7n-\-\ ; ana (jK-i-l)cosi=^wcos/). 

dp cost 

Squaring this, and adding to it 1 — cos-i^M-sin-'p, mciiiber for member, we obtain — 

[(H(+lj- 1 ] COS'-i + l=::n-i^C0H'^p-f Siu-p)=?i"^. 

From which we deduce the result in the text — 



8 S 






114 DIFFRACTION DOUBLE EFFRACTION. 

And for the bow by two reflections : 

Violet rays . r,. = 71° 49' 55". J"y = 230^ 58' 50. Radiiis of bow 50° 58' 50". 
Ucdrny«.--;,-=7i°26'10". J"i. = 23'r 9' 20. Eadius of bow54° 9' 20". 

From the values of J it will be manifest that the rays which produce the 
bow by one reflection must enter the rain drops above the ray which passes 
throu"-h the centre; and that those which produce the bow by two reflections 
must enter below the same central ray. 

The differences between the values of J^- and A^. above, show the amount by 
v,'hi<.-h tlu' breadths of the bows are increased in consequence of the variabilily 
of n. These amounts arc, for the lirst bow, 1° 44' 40'', and for the second, 
o^ 10' 30 '. The colors are produced by the want of conformity of the bows 
corresponding to the several elementary rays; and their feebleness is owing to 
the fact that, notwithstanding this want of conformity, they do, on account of 
the considerable diameter of the sun, very sensibly overlap, while they are 
also diluted by the white light reflected from the anterior surface of the drops 
Were they entirely superposed upon each other the bow would be white. 

While the discoveries of Newton and Snellius, just mentioned, were removing 
old impediments to progress in optical science, observation continued to add 
new ones more perplexing than those which had disappeared. In the year 
1G65 there was published, at Bologna, a posthumous work by Francis Maria 
Grimaldi, an Italian Jesuit, in which were, for the first time, described certain 
phenomena now very familiar under the name of diffraction. He stated that 
if any very small object be placed in a pencil of divergent light, admitted through 
a mmute aperture into a dark room, its shadow will appear materially larger 
than it ought if light passes its edges in straight lines ; and. moreover, that any 
opaque object, laige or small, exhibits along the edges of its shadow a border 
of at least three distinctly tinted fringe!*, the brightest and broadest of which is 
next the shadow. He also observed that when two minute pencils of light are 
admitted through apertures very near to each other, the screen on which the 
blended pencils fall, and which, as he supposed, ought to be uniformly UIu- 
mmated with a light equal to the sum of the two intensities, is streaked with lines 
absolutely dark. He was led by this observation to announce the paradoxical 
proposition that there are circumstances in which the union of two rays of light 
produces darkness. Bold as this announcement must have originally appeared, 
the progress of scientific discovery has fully confix-med its truth. This phenom- 
enon, bemg attributed to the bending of the rays of light in the immediate 
vicinity of the opaque body, was distinguished by the name inflection or diffrac- 
tion. It was carefully studied by Newton and others, and has occupied a prom- 
inent place in all the discussions which have since arisen in regard to the natui-e 
of light. 

Noi far from the time of the discovery of Grimaldi, just mentioned, the atten- 
tion of the; scientific world was called to a case of new and extraordinary r(>irac- 
tiou observed to take place in crystals of carbonate of lime — a species of retrac- 
tion, which, from tiie circumstance of its dividing an meideut beam into two 
beams entirely distinct, or of presenting two im.iges of any object seen through the 
crystal, has been catted double refraction. 1 he first publication on this subject 
was made by Erasmus Banholinus, a physician of Copenhagen, who gave to 
the mineral the name of Iceland spar, from the circumstance that his specimens 
had been obtained from that island. It is now known that this property of 
double refraction is exceedingly common, being possessed by most crystaUized 
bodies, and capable of being produced, transiently or permanently, in any trans- 
parent solid whatever, whether organic or mineral, in which it does not naturally 
exist. It is only in Iceland spar, however, that it manifests itself in a degree 
remarkable enough to attract; the attention of a casual observer, and in most 
cases It can oulj be detected by special arrangi^neuts. 




DOUBLE EEFEACTION. 115 

Iceland ,spar is favorable to observations upon double refraction, not only on 
account of its wide separation of the n-fracted rays, but also because of the size 
of the crystals which can be obtain 'd of this mineral, and of their beautiful 
transparency. Its primitive crystalline form is the rhombohedron. Whatever 
may be the configuration of the mass as obtained from its native bed, it will be 
found to cleave with great ficility in directions paraUel to the fVices of the 
original rhombohedron, and it is thus easily reduced to a form favorable for ex- 
periment. The angles of the rhomboidal flices are 101° 55' and 78° 5'. Th« 
inclinations of the faces upon each other are 105^ 5' and 
74° 55'. Two of the solid angles are contained by three 
of the obtuse angles of the rhomboids, and the other six 
by two acute and one obtuse each. The diagonal con- 
necting the two exceptional solid angles is the shortest 
^'S' ^- of the diagonals of the rhombohedron, and is called the 

crystallographic axis. These angles themselves are called the vertical, and the 
other six the lateral, angles of the crystal. 

If a mark be made with ink upon a sheet of white paper — a small cross fa- 
example — and a rhomboid of Iceland spar, two or three inches in thickness, be 
laid over it, then in whatever position the eye may be placed above the upper 
surface of the crystal, two crosses will be seen. If the crystal be turned about 
upon its horizontal face, one of these images will remain motionless, and the 
other will describe a circle around it. The motionless image will, moreover, 
appear sensibly nearer to the eye than the other. If, mstead of a small mark, 
wt take a straight line ruled entirely across the paper as an object, then, if the 
eye be placed vertically over the line, and the crystal interposed, it will be seen 
that th<^ nearer image is always a continuation of the part of \he line seen 
beyond the crystal on each side, while the more distant one is more or less dis- 
placed laterally. In revolving the crystal, moreover, this second image will 
pass from one side to the other of the first, and .a position will be found (or 
rather two positions, differing from each other by 180^) in which the two imajres 
apparently coincide, though, as they are differently distant, they are merely 
superposed. 

Until the discovery of this remarkable property in Iceland spar, refraction 
was supposed to be governed in all cases by the law of Snellius. But it is im- 
possibh that this should be true of both the rays in the present case. It is, in 
fact, true only of that one which produces the nearer and fixed image, This is, 
for distinction, called the ordinary ray ; tlie other, the cxtraxyrdinary. 

If the vertical angles of the rhombohedron be truncated perpendicularly to 
the crystallographic axis, and the artificial faces thus formed polished, it will bo 
found that when the crystal is laid over a small object upon one of these faces, 
and the eye placed immediately over it, only one imi.ge will be visible. This is 
not an illusion occasioned by the superposition of images differently distant ; 
there is actually but one image. But if the emergent ray coming t(; the eye, by 
which the object is seen, be at all inclined to the surtacc, tin- im)ge will b" 
diipiicatcd, and the degree of separation of the two images will iucrcasi! witb 
the inclination. If the lateral edges of the crystal are cut away, so as to i'orai 
a parallelopipcdon, whose faces arc parallel to the crystallographic axis, and tin- 
crystal be laid on its side, the separation of the images will be at its maximum. 
In this case, if the emergent visual ray be perpcnulicular to the surface, the tw;- ^ 
images will be superposed, but the duplicity will be very perceptible. 

It appeal's, then, that there is one direction in the crystal, in which light may 
pass without double refraction, and tha., this direction corresponds with that of 
the cry.-;tallograi)hic axis. This direction is also called the (ypiic axis; but the 
term optic axis, it must be observed, is not intended to denote a particular Ibic, 
but only a particular direction, and in the present case it is a line anywhere in 
the crj'stal parallel to the axis of symmetry. 



116 DOUBLE EEFEACTION. 

Any ;;7an/' parallel to tlie axis of the crystal necessarily coincides with the 
optic axis, and every such plane is called ^principal plane ov principal section. 
This term is one of very convenient use. Any plane at right angles to the optic 
axis (and therefore to all the principal planes) may be called a rc/yw^a/e plane or 
section, which term will be also found to have its convenience. In every such 
conjugate plane the separation of the two rays by double refraction is at its 
m iximum ; and, what is also important, the extraordinary ray, as well as the 
ordinary, obeys in this plane the law of Snellius. The indexes of refraction for 
thi- two are, however, necessarily different ; that of the ordinary ray being 
1.6543, and that of the extraordinary, i.4833. In directions which do not 
correspond with either a principal or a conjugate plane, the index of refrac- 
tion of the ordinary ray will be found to be invariably the same, but that of 
thp extraordinary ray will gradually increase from the direction perpendicular 
to thf^ axis to that which coincides with the axis. In this last case the two in- 
dexes become equal, and double refraction disappears. The index of t\w ex- 
traordinary ray at any inclination (denoted by «) with the optic axis, may be 
found from the following formula, in which ?i = 1.6543, %' = 1.4833, and iV^is 
the index sought : 

iV= ^7?—{n^—n^) siu'^a= 72^7367^ oTsses'shi^'a. 
We see now why it is that one of the images seen through the crystal is 
apparently nearer than the other. The general effect of refraction by a single 
plane surface of a body denser than air, is, as has been already illustrated, to 
bring the object apparently nearer to the surftice. This effect must depend for 
its degree upon the refracting power, and this power is a direct function of the 
index of refraction. The indexes of the two rays are different; and therefore 
the apparent distances of their images are different likewise. 

One of the most remarkable facts connected with the refraction of the ex- 
traordinary ray is that, unless the incidence is in the plane of a principal section, 
or of a conjugate section, the refracted ray is not in the plane of incidence. And 
if the refracting surface, whether the natural surface of the crystal or one artifi- 
cially prepared, be not coincident with a principal or a conjugate plane, the 
extraordinary ray is bent at the surfxce, even when the incidence is perpendicular. 
In observing through the crystal prepared by truncating its vertices by 
conjugate planes, in which case we have the advantage of having both refracted 
rav^ in all positions in the plane of incidence, we shall see that the extraordinary 
ray is always the most distant from the normal to the surface. But this normal 
represents the direction of the optic axis. The extraordinary ray, therefore, 
has the semblance of being repelled from this axis. As there are crystal- in 
which the" -ipparent effects are reversed, that is, in which the extraordinary ray 
is nearer to the optic axis than the ordinary, as if it were attracted, these two 
classes have been distinguished by the terms negativp and positive. In the 
negative the extraordinary index is less than the ordinary ; in the positive, 
greater. 

A curious observation in regard to the paths of the two rays through a cry.-tal 
of Iceland spar, by which an object at a little distance beyond it is seen, origi- 
nally made by Monge, may be mentioned here. The object 
being at 0, and the eye being at E, the ordinary image 
will appear above the extraordinary and nearer, as at 0', 
0'' being the extraordinary image. The emergent rays 
are therefore P'E and Q E. But the rays incident on the 
under side of the crystal from the object must be respec- 
tively parallel to these. Draw then OP parallel to P'E, 
pj,^ g and OQ parallel to Q'E, and join PP', QQ'. The en- 

"' tire path of the ordinary ray is then OPP'E, and that of 

the extraordinary is OQQ'E, which lines, when the plane of incidence is a 
principal plane, necessarily cross each other in the crystal. 




DOUBLE REFRACTION. 117 

If a card be passed along tlie under surface of the crystal, in the direction 
R'R, it will cut oft' the ray OP before interfering with OQ. The image O', 
which is most distant from the card, is therefore first to disappear — a phenome- 
non very striking when seen fir the first time. The card employed in this 
experiment shouUl be dull black in order to produce the best effect, otherwise it 
is too conspicuous itself. 

Wiien a ray of light, after having passed through one crystal and having been 
divid(>d into two distinct emergent rays, is allowed to fall upon another similar 
and equal crystal similarly situated, the effect, as might naturally be expected, 
will be to increase the separation of the rays to the same extent as Avould have 
occurred had both the crystals been united in one. But if the second crystal 
be turned around the direction of the ray as an axis, other phenomena make 
their appearance, the character of which depends on the amount of turning. In 
speaking of this kind of revolution it will be convenient to employ the term 
azimutli. By this word is meant direction in space in a plane at right angles 
to any axial line. The term is adopted from astronomy and geodesy, in which 
sciences the assumed axial line is the vertical, and the azimuthal plane the 
horizon. 

In -the case in hand, if we completely reverse the position of the second 
crystal in azimuth, that is to say, turn it round ISO*^, it will reverse the refract- 
ing effect of the first crystal and reunite the two rays, which Avill emerge as 
one. If we turn it only 90° in azimuth the separation of the rays will con- 
tmue, but that which was the extraordinary ray in the first crystal will become 
the ordinary in the second, and vice versa. Accordingly, if the original inci- 
dence is perpendicular, the ray which follows the normal in the first crystal will 
be bent at the surface of the second, and that which is bent at the surface of the 
first will follow the normal on entering the second. 

At any azimuth differing from the original position more or less than 90° or 
180° there will be seen four emergent rays, of which two will usually posse?* 
a greater intensity than the other two. When the change of position of the 
second crystal is but slight, the two original rays will be vivid; but, in a line at 
right angles to that which connects them, two very faint ones will appear, nearer 
together than the original two. As the rotation advances these new rays will 
gain in strength, while the other two grow less intense. At the azimuth of 45° 
the four will be equal and equidistant. Beyond 45° the original rays go on 
fading and the new ones increasing in brightness, until, at 90°, the former become 
entirely extinct and the new ones remain alone. Beyond 90° again another 
faint pair appear, Avhich go on, as before, increasing in brightness, at the expense 
of the companion pair, up to the azimuth 135°, when the four are again equal. 
Beyond 135° this second new pair still continue to gain strength and to approach 
each other, till, at the azimuth 180°, they reunite into one, and the others in their 
turn vanish. In the figure following, these successive phases are shown as 
they appear upon a screen when the experiment is performed in a dark room. 
They are circumscribed by the Outlines of the two rhombs in their relative suc- 
cessive positions. 




The phenomena of double refraction were carefully studied by the celebrated 
IluygheUs, who devised a physical theory for their explanation, which has been 
pronounced by Brewster to be one of the most splendid of the triumphs of genius 
Avhich illustrate the history of science. His theory did not, however, exlend to 
the explanation of the remarkable appearances last described, a\ Inch present 



118 COLORS OF THIN PLATES. 

themselves wlicn two doubly refracting rhombs are combined — appearances 
which were observed by him v/ith surprise and perplexity. They are now 
known to be owing to a remarkable moditication of light which always accom- 
panies double refraction, though it may be produced in other ways, and which 
is ctAlcdi polarization. This v,'i]l occupy much of our attention further- on. 

Soon after his announcement of the compound nature of light, Sir Isaac 
Newton made public the results of his ingenious investigations in regard to the 
colors esrhibited by thin plates of transparent substances, such as soap-bubbles, 
films of moisture upon glass and upon polished opaque solids, lamiuai of air 
confined in fissures of transparent minerals, S.CQ,. lie showed that the tints dis- 
played by such thin plates, when viewed in common light, depend upon three 
conditions, viz : the riiickncss of the plate, its refracting power, and the angle 
of obliquity under which it is viewed. The determination of the relation of the 
tint to the thickness, was made by means of a very simple contrivance. A 
double-convex lens, of very long focus, was placed in contact with the plane 
surface of a plano-convex lens, the two being pressed together by means of 
screws. In Newton's experiments the double-convex lens was beneath and the 
plano-convex above. The convexity of the upper surface of the upper lens is 
advantageous when oblique observations are desired, as tending to reduce the 
refraction of the incident and emergent rays at that surface. The two touching 
sui-faces have, theoretically, but a single point of contact, and that point is the 
centre of a thin plate of included air, of which the thick- 
ness increases from zero equally in all directions. The 
law of this increase will be apparent from the figure 
annexed. MN represents the lower surface of the supe- 
rior glass, and QR the upper surface of the inferior. Let 
C be the centre of the sphere of vrhich QR is a super- 
ficial section. Put r for the radius CP. Then, if the 
arcs Pa, Pb, are small in proportion to the whole circum- 
ference, we shall have 

Pa'=Aa^'^; imdi Ph'=Bb=.^^ ■ 

Or, if X stand generally for the thickness Aa or Bb, and y for the corres- 
ponding distance from the point of contact, PA or PB, we shall have the vari- 
ation, xccy^. 

This furnishes a law by which, when the thickness corresponding to a single 
assigned value of y is known, the thickness for all other values may be com- 
puted with great facility. 

The apparatus being arranged as above described, the colors which are seen 
by reflected light are arranged in regular rings around a black centre and iu suc- 
cessive series, as follows : 

1. Black, blue, white, yellow, red. 

2. Violet, blue, green, yellow, red. 

3. Purple, blue, green, yellow, red. 

4. Green, red. 

5. Greenish blue, red. 

6. Greenish blue, pale red, 

7. Greenish blue, reddish white. 

These are what Newton calls the successive orders of colors, and, in referring 
lo any particular tint, it is designated as the blue, i-ed, green, &c., of the first, 
second, or third order, as the case may be. Beyond the fourth order the colors 
become feeble or begin to fade rapidly out into whiteness, and, beyond the 
seventh, color can scarcely be at all perceived. The cause of this fading may 
be made manifest by employing hotnogencous or monochromatic light; that is 
to say, light of a single tint only, obtained by isolating a portion of the rays of 




COLORS OF THIN PLATES. 119 

the prismatic spectrum whose n-frangibility and color are sensibly the same. 
Then very many more bright rings will be observed, separated by intcirraediatc 
rings entirely dark. ]3ut what is of most importance at present is that those 
which are i'ormed by the least refrangible rays arc larger than any others, and 
that the diameters of rings of the same order regularly diminish as the refran- 
gibility increases. This difference of magnitude between the rings of different 
tints occasions the overlapping of one color upon another when white light is 
used, so that the colors observed are not simple but resultant colors, determined 
in their tints by the simple colors which happen to be predominant at any point. 
The other components serve, with some portion of the predominant tint, to pro- 
duce white light, by which the tint is diluted and rendered more feeble than it 
would otherwise be. The truth of this explanation will be made apparent by 
viewing the rings through a prism. The effect will be to make the overlajj- 
ping on one side more complete than before, and, on the other side, less. The 
rings Avill be less highly colored but more numerous and better separated on the 
side of greatest refraction, and more confused on the other. 

From a careful measurement of the diameters of all the bright rings, Sir 
Isaac Newton ascertained that the squares of these diameters form a regular 
arithmetical p^-ogressiou, corresponding to the natural series of odd numbers, 1, 
3, 5, 7, &c. And the squares of the diameters of the hitermediate dark rings 
were found to constitute another similar progression, corresponding to the series 
of even numbers, 2, 4, 6, &c. From the law xozif, it therefore follows that 
the bright rings appear where the thickness of the plate is once, thrice, fire times, 
&c., some constant value, and that the dark rings appear Avhere the thickness is 
twice, four times, six times, &c., the same constant value. The next question 
to be determined is, therefore, what is that constant ? 

In order to ascertain this, Sir Isaac Newton measured with great precision 
the absolute diameter of the fifth dark ring. This, with the known radius of the 
spherical surface of the lens, enabled him to compute the thickness of the plate 
at that ring, this thickness being the versed sine in a great circle of the sphere 
of an arc of which the measured diameter is the chord. The result gave him 
■g^^ of an inch, very nearly, for the thickness of the plate at the fifth dark 
ring. But the fifth number in the series 8, 4, 6, &c., is 10. Hence, the con- 
stant sought for is one-tenth of -gg^^o" ^^ ^^ ruf^h, or xnuHTo' ^^'^^ this is the 
thickness of the plate at the point where the greatest brightness of the first 
bright ring is seen. Reduced to a decimal, it gives a little more than fifty-six 
ten-millionths of an inch. If the value of this constant be sought for the several 
homogeneous rays, it will be found to be, for the violet, a littlemore than thirty- 
nine ten-millionths, and, for the red, not quite sixty -nine ten-millionths. As, in 
the space occupied by the colors of the first order, the thicknesses vary slowly, 
and as there is a certain range of variation in thickness within which each color 
may appear, though its greatest intensity is in the middle of this range, it 
happens that the colors of the first order are dilute, especially toward the centre 
of the system, and that the middle of the series is white. In the succeeding 
orders, the differences tell in such a manner that the bright rings of some colors 
fall more or less exactly upon the dark rings of others, and the tints become 
stronger. But, as the thicknesses soon begin to vary rapidly, every system of 
rings becomes crowded, and the separating dark intervals groAV narrower and 
narrower, until there is a complete blending of tints at every point and the 
resultant is sensibly white. When water is introduced between the glasses, the 
rings become immediately smaller. If the thickness at which a given tint now 
appears is compared with that at which the same tint appeared in air, it is found 
to be reduced in the ratio of n to I, n being the index of refraction between air 
and water. This law admits of being generalized. In fact, whatever be the 
substance of the thin plates in which these tints appear, the thicknesses Avhich 
produce them are inversely proportional to their index(.'S of refraction. 



120 



COLORS OF THICK PLATES. 



When llie system of lenses det-cribed above is held between the eye and the 
li;^lit, another .•system of ruigs makes its appearance, which is formed by the 
transmitted light. In this case the tints are much feebler, being diluted by the 
intermixture (;f a great deal of whit3 liglit, which, as we shall see hereafter, lias 
nothing to do with their formation. Of these it is remarkable that the diame- 
ters of the briglit rings correspond with those of tlie dark rings seen by reflec- 
tion. Tims the thicknesses at which the bright rings by transmitted light 
appear form a scries corresponding witli the progression of even numbers, 0, 2, 
4, G, &c. ; and the thicknesses at which the intervening dark rings are seen cor- 
respond to the progression 1, 3, 5, 7, &c. Also the tints reflected and trans- 
mittt'd at any given point are complementary to each other, or are such as, 
united, produce white. 

The measurements above given are those which correspond to rings formed 
by light perpendicularly incident upon the thin lamina. But wlien the rings 
arc observed obliquely, their diameters are rapidly enlarged with increase of 
obliquity. Sir Isaac Newton ascertained the law of this increase to be this : 
that the squares of the diameters arc inversely as the cosines of incidence. 
When the incidence exceeded GO^, it appeared to him that this law uo longer 
held good; and this conclusion, which, up to a recent period, had not been 
invalidated, has formed a serious diiliculty in the way of any tlieory of light. 
Ilecent experiments, however, made by Messi's. Provostayc and Desains, with 
monocliromatic light, and with special arrangements to eliminate the sources of 
error in m(;asurement which must liavi; vitiated Newton's results at high inci- 
dences, have fully established the; universality of the law. Their measurements 
extended to the forty-third ring, and to the great incidence of 86° 14', beyond 
which the rings were no longer discernible. 

Colors resembling those of thin plates may be ju-oduced also, in various modes, 
by means of thick plates. Sir Isaac Newton employed, in an interesting expcjri- 
ment of this kind, a spherical glass mirror, with truly concentric surfaces, silvered 
on the back. A very small bcsam of light (about one 
twenty-fifLh of an inch in diameter) having been intro- 
duced int(5 a dark room, he received it on this mirror in 
such a manner as to reflect it back loward the aperture. 
At the centre of curvature of the mirror he placed a white 
card pierced, in order to allow the light to pass, with a 
very small orilice. Around this orilice he saw a seri(js of 
rings resembling those of thin plates. When the light 
was homog(;neous, the rings were alternately bright and dark as in the other case. 
The diameters were also observed to follow similar laws. As both surfaces of 
the mirror are concerned in producing these rings, and as, at the flrst surface, 
it is the irregular or scattered reflection only which is necessary to the eficct, 
the experiment succeeds best with a mirror in which this surface is not highly 
polished. Instead of the perforated card, a lamina of mica, or of slightly tar- 
nished glass, may be employed to receive the rings. 

When light is transmitted through or reflected by a pair of thick plates of 
homogeneous glass, with parallel plane surfaces, 
and placed parallel to each other, colors may ap- 
pear, if the difference of thickness of the two ])lates 
is comparable to the absolute thickness at which 
sucli colors arc produced by thin plates. The 
ligurc! shows the arrangement. Dr. 13r(nvster pro- 
duced th(! same effects with a pair of plates of 
equal thickness, by inclining one of them so that 
lh(! path of the rays witliin it sliould be slightly 
longer than M'ithin the other. There; is some sim 
ilarity between the first of these classes of phenomena and those of diffraction. 
The second have a nearer analogy to the colors of Newton's rings. 



M 



FlK. 8. 




PROGRESSIVE MOTION OF LIGHT. ]21 

The next important step in the progress of optical science was the discovery 
of the progressive motion of light, and tlie determination of its velocity. Though 
every theory which had ever been suggested to account for the phenomena of 
light presumed that there must be a progress from the luminous origin, and 
therefore that time must be an element in the solution of every optical problem, 
still so nearly instantaneous are all the cfiects produced at the; distanccis to 
which our ordinary observation extends, as apparently to render hopeless any 
]>hui for experimentally determining the velocity. This circumstance rendered 
the efforts made by the celebrated Galileo, and by the academicians of Florence, 
to settle the question, completely nugatory. 'J'he method of proceeding adopted 
by Galileo was to place himself upon an eminence opposite to an assistant 
observer something more than a mile distant; both being provided AVith lanterns 
Avhich could be darkened by a slide. The lights being arranged, Galileo dark- 
ened his lantern ; and the assistant, immediately on noticing its disappearance, 
darkened his also. Apparently both Avere extinguished at tlie same instant. 
The Florentine academicians repeated the experiment, increasing the distance 
between the stations, but the result Avas the same. The problem remained 
imsolved ; but its solution came at last, Avhen demanded by the exigencies of a 
higher branch of science. 

In 1675 Roemer, an astronomer of Copenhagen, in his obsej'A'ations upon the 
eclipses of the first satellite of Jupit(;r, became perplexed by irregularities for 
Avhich lie could conceive no means of accounting. It Avas suggested by Dominic 
Cassini that these difficulties might perhaps be removed by supjjosing that the time 
occupied by light in passing through the vast distance betAveen Jupiter and our 
planet may be large enough to be ajipreciablc; and therefon; that, as our dis- 
tance A'aries, this time must vary also. Assuming this hypothesis to be true, 
and that the epoch on Avhich our computations of futvu-e (;clipscs are founded is 
the date of some eclipse actually observed Avhen the two bodies Avere occupying 
their points of nearest approach, it will follow that if the accuracy of the deter- 
minations is affected only by the motion of light, all subsequent eclipses, 
observed when the distance is the same as at the epoch, will agree with the 
prediction, and all others will be in retardation by an amount of timi; equal to 
that which light requires to pass over ihe space by which the distance has been 
increased. In like manner, if the epoch had been an eclipse observed in the 
position of greatest distance betAveen the bodies, subsequent eclipses Avould be 
in ad\"ance of the prediction ; and if the epoch had been an obserA-ation made 
from some position intermediate betAveen the points of greatest and least distance, 
the eclipses afterAA\ards occurring Avould be sometimes in advance and some- 
times in retardation. The test of the correctness of the hyjjothesis Avould be a 
careful comparison of the observed irregularities of time Avith the variations of 
distance — a compai'ison involving no slight labor. Cassini, Avith wliom the idea 
originated, seems to have abandoned it; but Roemer folloAved it up Avilh such 
perseverance as at length conclusively to establish its truth. He demonstrated 
that the time occupied by light in passing over the entire diameter of the earth's 
orbit is 16 minutes and 26 seconds. But at that period the dimensions of the 
earth's orbit Avere not accurately known, and this determination Avas insufficient to 
fix the absolute value of the velocity of light. Assuming the sun's mean parallax 
to be 8. "6, the mean diameter of the orbit must be about 190,000,000 of miles, 
and this number divided by 986, the number of seconds in 16 minutes and 26 
;K!Conds, gives for the velocity in miles 192,700. 

The velocity of light has, since the time of Roemer, been ascertained, with a 
probably near approximation to the truth, by other inch'pendent methods, and 
the results tend to confirm the substantial correctness of his original determina- 
tion. . The first of these methods is that Avhich rests upon the measurement of 
the aberration of the stars, a phenomenon discovered by Bradley, afterAvards 



122 VELOCITY OF LIGHT. 

ascronomer royal of England, in 172S. This aberration consists in an apparent 

displacement of the star from its true position by the com- 

f^'s* bined influence of the motion of the earth and the progressive , 

°f ff/ motion of light. If, fur instance, the line MN be taken to 

/ [/ I represent a small portion of the earth's path, and S be a fixed 

pn/9p/i star, then while the earth advances in the direction of the 

u/f I arrow from to 0', 0", &c., if the propagation of light were 

111 I' instantaneous through all distanqes, the star would be seen 

__Mn^/<^si^.j^ in the true direction, OS, O's, 0"s', Sec, the telescope OP 

^M»~—-- remaining parallel to itself as the earth moves, in conse- 

Fig. 10. qixence of the immense distance of the star. Also, allowing 

progressive propagation of light, if the earth were without m.otion, the star would, 
still appear in its true direction. OS, the telescope OP remainmg stationary; 
but if we suppose both the earth and light to move, then a ray entering the 
centre of the tube OP, at the summit, would not be in the centre of the; tube 
when it reached the lower end, but would be displaced toward the rear by a 
small space equal to the earth's own motion while the ray is descending the 
tube. To the observer at O, therefore, the telescope would not ap]:)ear to be truly 
pointed at the star, but would require to to be leaned forward in the direction 
OP , until the luminous elements which compose the ray (whatever they may 
be , should follow accurately the axis of the telescope from top to bottom. The 
star will accordingly seem to be at S', in advance of its. true position, in the 
direction of the earth's motion. The amount of this apparent displacement will 
vary with the angle made by the direction of the earth's movement with the 
direction of the star. When this angle is zero, that is to say when the earth is 
mo V mg di. ectly toward or from the star, the displacement is zero ; when the 
angle is 90 '^, or when the earth's motion is directly across the line drawn to the 
star, it is maximum. For a star in the plane of the earth's orbit, the aberration 
is apparently an oscillation in a straight line, the duration of the movement in 
the allernately opposite directions being six months ; for a star in the pole of the 
ecliptic, or in a direction at right angles to its plane, the apparent path would be 
a very small ellipse similar to the earth's orbit. The major axis of this ellipse 
would measure the maximum amount of aberration on both sides of the true 
place, and this is found to be equal to 40''.88 ; half of this, or 20".44, is the 
maximum absolute amount of displacement. 'Jlie direction of a star, therefore, 
when its aberration is maximum, deviates from its true direction as the diagonal 
of a rectangle deviates from the side. If, in such a rectangle, the smaller side 
be made equal to the velocity of the earth, the larger will be the velocity of 
light, and the angle between the larger side and the diagonal will be 20''. 44. 
But the earth's velocity per second is known, and is about 18.9 miles; hence the 
velocity of light is 18.9 Xcot20".44=190, 730 miles, a number less than that 
before obtained by about one one-hundredth part. 

This coincidence of results is sufficiently remarkable, when we consider the 
extreme delicacy of such measurements as those by which aberration is de- 
termined, and also the difficulty of fixing, by observation, the exact instant 
of the immersion or emersion of one of Jupiter's satellites ; but, these difficulties 
apart, there is nothing surprising in the agreement, since both depend at last 
for their absolute values upon our received horizontal parallax of the sun. 

Results very nearly similar, however, have been recently obtained by experi- 
mental methods founded upon principles entirely different from the foregoing. 
The first of these methods was devised by Mr. Fizeau, of Paris, and executed 
by him in the vicinity of that city. Having selected two stations, visible from 




velocitV of light. 123 

each other, and about 5.\ miles apart, he jihxced 
two tubes, something like tubes of telescopes, 
one at each station, looking towards each 
other, with their axes iu the same straiglit line. 
One of these tubes, represented at AB, has a 
branch tube E furnished with lenses, through 
which is received the light from a radiant point 
S. This light is reflected by an inclined trans- 
parent plane mirror fn, forming a bright image 
of the luminous point at s, which is in the principal focus of the large lens B. 
The rays being made parallel by this lens, are received at the other station upon 
the lens C, by which they are brought to a focus upon the surfece of a plani 
mirror D. Being reflected back by this mirror, they return to the lens B, and once 
more ibrm a bright image at s, which image may be observed through the trans- 
parent mirror ?n, by an eye placed at A. The upper side of the tube at F, just 
in front of the plane mirror, is cut through in order to admit the limb of a wheel, 
furnished with teeth, to descend so far into it that the image s may be seen be- 
tween the teeth or cut ofi" by them, according to the position of the wheel. The 
teeth and the intervening spaces are of exactly equal breadth. By means of 
connected gear- work a high velocity of rotation may be given to the wheel, 
while the number of turns per second admits of being ascertained. The 
velocity may also be retarded by a brake. When the wheel turns slowly 
the light is intermittent, and the passage of the teeth is perceptible. But when 
as many as ten teeth pass per second, the light is constant, owing to the dura- 
tion of the successive impressions upon the eye. By accelerating the movement 
the brightness of the image may presently be made to fade, in consequence of 
the interference of the successive teeth with the rays returning from the distant 
station, after having passed through the last preceding interval between the 
teeth. As the velocity increases this fading will become an absolute extinction, 
each tooth in its progress cutting off all the light which passed through the in- 
terval before it. When this state of things is reached, it is evident that the time 
occupied in the passage of light to the distant station and back — that is to say, 
10§ miles — is equal to the time which it takes for a tooth to advance a dis- 
tance equal to its own breadth. If there are five hundred teeth and five hun- 
dred intervening spaces, this time will be one one-thousandth part of th.it of a 
revolution ; and if there are eigliteen revolutions in a second, the absolute time 
will be one eighteen-thousandth of a second. 

By still further accelerating the velocity of rotation, the light may presently 
l)e made to reappear; the rays which pass through one opening to the distant 
station, returning through the next following opening to the eye. When the 
full brightness is thus restored, the velocity will be found to have been doubled. 
By carrying the acceleration still further, the light may be a second time eclipsed 
and a second time restored ; and, in like manner, alternately extinguished and 
revived, as long as the driving power will allow : the velocities at which the 
several successive extinctions and revivals occur, constituting a regularly increas- 
ing arithmetical series. 

VJa thus are enabled to measure the small fraction of a second required for 
light to pass over twice the distance between the two station? ; and dividing this 
double distance by this fraction we obtain the velocity of light per second. The 
result at first obtained by JMr. Fizeau, by means of this apparatus, was about 
196,000 miles, being in excess of the results by the astronomical methods by 
one-sixtieth part nearly. 

It is manifest that any mode by which very minute intervals of time can be 
accurately measured, is capable of being employed as a means of determining 
the velocity of light. Mr. Wheatstone, in his researches upon the velocity of 
electricity, employed for this purpose a revolving mirror; and iu 1839, Mr. 



124 



VELOCITY OF LIGHT. 



Arago made an effort, by tlie use of a similar mirror, to institute a comparison 
between the velocities of light in passing through water and through air. This 
wa^s suggested by him as an experimentmn crucis between the opposing theo- 
rie.s current in regard to the nature of light ; in one of which lif^ht was sup- 
posed to consist of material particles actually thrown off by luminous bodies, 
while in the other it was assumed to be an effect of undulations propagated 
through an exceedingly subtle elastic medium pervading all space. If the first 
were tlic true theory, the velocity of light in a more powerfully refracting 
mt'dium should be greater than in a less ; and the reverse, if the second were 
true. Mr. Arago did not carry out his design to its completion, but it has since 
been successfully executed by both ]\Ir. Fizeau, whose original method has just 
been given, and by Mr. Foucault, well known for his pendulum demonstration 
of the earth's rotation. The experiment served at once to compare the veloci- 
ties of light in air and water, and to determine the absolute velocity. The an- 
nexed figure may render the method intelligible. Suppose a small beam of 




Fig. 12. 

parallel rays to be admitted into a room otherwise dark, through an aperture R, 
and to fidl upon an achromatic lens, fixed at C, in the direction of its axis. Let 
CD be the focal distance of this lens ; and at M let the beam be intercepted by a 
mirror capable of turning around a vertical axis coincident with its plane. At 
a distance, ME=MD, in any convenient position not very remote from R, let 
there be placed a spherical mirror having its centre of curvature in the axis of M. 
Let there be, further, across the aperture R a fine wire exactly vertical ; 
and in front of the aperture R a transparent plane mirror AB, inclined 
to the beam at an angle of 4o^. The mirror M may obviously be turned 
on its pivot, so that the ray RCjI falling upon it may be reflected to E. If 
it remain stationary in this position, the light incident on E will be returned to 
M, and so again to the aperture R. But a portion of this returning light, being 
reflected by AB towards 0, will enable an observer at that point to see the im- 
age of the vertical wire. To assist the eye, a magnifying eye-piece may be em- 
ployed, and this may bo provided with a spider-line micrometer at its focus. If 
the miri'or be now put very slowly into revolution, the image of the wire will be 
seen intermittently and .momentarily, once in every revolution. The spider-line 
of the eye-piece is now to be brought to exact coincidence with this image. 
Accelerating the revolution, when the number of turns per second becomes as 
great as ten, the image will be permanent. If, now, a very high velocity be 
given to the mirror, the image seen by the observer at will no longer coincide 
with the spider-line of the micrometer, but will be seen at a sensible distance from 
it in the direction of rotation. Thus, if the arrow represent the direction of 
rotation, the returning ray which originally met the mirror A B at ;•, will meet it 
at r' or r", and the image which originally appeared at S wnll be seen at S' or S". 
This is evid-^'Utly owing to the change in tlae position of the mirror M, while 



VELOCITY OF LIGHT IN WATER AND AIR. 125 

the light is moving from it to the spherical mirror E and back again ; and the 
angular displacement of the returning ray around the centre M will, according 
to the well-known law of reflection, be double the angular change of position of 
the mirror. If the mirror makes n turns in a second, the time of one turn will 
be the wth part of a second, and the time of making the change of position of 
which the observation gives us the evidence, will be the same fraction of the n\\x 
part of a second that half the angle subtended by RR' or RR", as the case 
may be, at the centre M, is of SGO""; or as iRR' is of a whole circumference. 
This distance' RR' or RR", being equal to SS' or SS", is directly measured 
by the micrometer. Let it be put == o. The circumference of the circle whose 
radius is RM, (which put = r,) is 2-r. Put the space ME;=5, or 2ME = 
25, and the time of passing 2ME ;=:;{. Also let v represent the velocity of 
light. Then — 

<5 ^ 2s 8-rns 

t=- ; andt' = — = ^--. 

'^-rn t 

J This expi-ession is, however, true only on the assumption that the returning 
ray suflfers no deviation in passing the lens C. But since, if its original path 
was, as we have assumed, the axis of the lens, it cannot, if sensibly deviated, 
return through the axis, it will be bent at C, and the displacement RR' will be 
less than we have assumed it to be. If D be the actually observed displacement, 
and if RO be represented by r' and MC by s', then the value of our assumed 
displacement in the above formula will become, as may easily be shown — 

sr' 

Substituting this value, we shall have for the velocity of light — 

With a distance * = 4 metres, and 800 turns of the mirror per second, Mr. 
Foucault found a value of D = 6'"™, whence the value of v is found to be, in 
English miles, 192,950.* 

13y placing a second fixed mirror, F, in any other convenient position, and 
interposing a tube, as GH, filled with water or any other transparent medium, 
the ends of the tube being closed with plate glass having parallel surfaces, the 
velocities of light in air and such a medium may be compared. The mirrors E and 
F will both give images of the wire at R; and if the value of v is the same for 
both, the two images will be coincident, and appear as one; but if v have dif- 
ferent values for the different media, one of the images will be more displaced 
than the other. Mr. Foucault performed this experiment; and, in order to 
identify the images, and to distinguish one from the other, he placed before the 
mirror E a screen having a rectangular opening, such that one-third part of the 
image from that mirror should be cut oft" from the top, and another third from 
the bottom, the central third only being left unobstructed. In the image of the 
aperture at R, as seen at O, the middle third had, very sensibly, greater bright- 
ness than the top or the bottom, and the wire, as reflected fi'om E, was a^ipar- 
ently but one-third as long as it appeared reflected from F. The image from F 
was sensibly the most displaced, indicating lower velocity in water than in air; 
the displacement, D, in the formula above, being a factor of the denominator. 

The next discovery of importance in the progress of optical science was made 
near the close of the last century, by Dr. Wollaston, in his observations upon 
the prismatic spectrum. He discovered that, by employing a pencil of light 

^- By Mr. Foucault's more recent experiments with this method, the velocity of light is 
reduced to 190,249. IG miles. 



126 LINES IN THE SPECTEUM. 

very narrow in tlie direction of the plane of refraction, but broad parallel to tbe 
axis of the prism, five well-defined dark straight lines could be distinguished 
crossing the spectrum at right angles, and maintaining invariably the same posi- 
tions relatively to the colors. This number he afterwards increased to seven. 
These lines may very easily be distinguished by holding a prism near the eye, 
parallel to any small fissure through which light makes its way into a dark 
room. The reason they escaped the notice of Newton and other earlier ob- 
servers is to be found in the fact that those observers employed a pencil so 
broad iu the direction of refraction as to make the actually observed spectrum a 
compound of many superposed and unconformable spectra, thereby obliterating 
these very narrow markings. In fact, every point in an aperture of sensible 
magnitude, through which the light experimented on is introduced into the dark 
room, produces a spectrum of its own. Moreover, supposing that it is the sun- 
light which is introduced through the aperture ; it may be said that every point 
of the aperture produces not only one spectrum, but as many spectra as there 
ai'e points in the sun's disk from which lines may be drawn to the assumed 
point in the aperture. As all these lines, so drawn, would, in the absence of the 
prism, produce a white circular image of the sun upon the screen in the dark 
room, having a diameter increasing with the distance of the screen from the 
aperture, it follows that, when the prism is introduced, the spectrum produced 
by each point of the aperture will have a breadth equal to the diameter of this 
white image of the sun, and that its elongated form is due to the lateral unequal 
displacement of an indefinite number of circles, produced by the several elemen- 
tary rays of which white light is made up. The interposition of a convex lens 
between the prism and the aperture may serve to reduce the breadth and sharpen 
the boundary of the image ; but still it is manifest that with a circular aperture, 
there must, unless the diameter is made too small for convenient observation, be 
a considerable mixture of rays of different refrangibility in every part of the 
length. It is therefore best, for the purpose of obtaining a spectrum at once 
broad and pure, to employ an aperture very narrow in the plane of refe-action, 
and broad in the direction of the axis of the prism. This may be still further 
improved by the use of a convex lens of long focus, as above described ; or bet- 
ter, by the use of a cylindrical lens, with its cylindrical axis parallel to the length 
of the aperture. With an arrangement like this, the lines of Dr. "WoUaston may 
be easily exhibited, and many more. By aiding the eye with a telescope, the 
number discovered becomes surprisingly great. Mr. Fraunhofer, of Munich, 
enumerated five hundred and ninety, and Sir David Brewster afterward in- 
ci-eased this number to two thousand. Their general appearance under the tele- 
scope is shown in the figure annexed. 



Wy \ T\ 






[i_il li5!]ii,- iiL !.feuii.i iiLLiiuu:; JuJIll iuillLfetiii'L ij-ifa. - jaai 



»i:!~s i.r i -.,*:iii 



BED, ORANGE YELLOW GREEN BLUE INDIGO VIOLET 

Fig. 13. 

The eight principal lines are distinguished by the letters A to II, of which 
the line A is at the beginning of the red, and the line II about the middle of the 
violet. The line A does not appear in the figure. The positions of these lines 
being definitely fixed among the colors of the spectrum, they furnish valuable 
aid in comparing the refracting powers of different bodies, and have served to 
reveal the fact that bodies whose mean refractive powers are equal, do not always 
equally refract the several elementary rays. The line A is not among the most 
easily discernible, but Sir David Brewster has discovered others in the almost 
imperceptible light below A ; and Sir John Ilerschel, and especially Professor 



POLAlilZATION OF LIGHT. 127 

Stokes, have discovered many others still beyond the violet. By his curious 
discovery o? fluorescence, or the property possessed by some substances of ren- 
dering sensible to vision rays beyond the limit of the ordinary spectrum, Pro- 
fessor Stokes has in fact quadrupled its length.* 

In observing the spectra formed by light from other sources than the sun, as 
from the fixed stars, from incandescent solids, flames, &c., great differences are 
found to exist in regard to the lines observed. In the spectra of the iixed stars, 
dark lines are seen, which, like those of the solar spectrum, are unchangeable 
ill position, but which do not occupy the same positions. In the spectra of 
flames, lines are observed Avhich arc not dark, but bright. Different salts added 
to the wick of an alcohol lamp produce different systems of lines, always bright. 
So, likewise, metals burned under the compound blow-pipe. The spectrum of 
the electric spark exhibits bright lines also, the positions and numbers of which 
depend on the substances of which the electrodes are formed. A platinum wire 
made incandescent by an electric current, gives no lines at all ; and none are 
seen in the spectrum formed from the light of the solid carbon electrodes which 
produce the galvanic arch. Experiments made by Sir David Brewster, by pass- 
ing solar or artificial light through different colored gases, led him to the con- 
clusion that the dark lines are caused by absorption — an absorption which be 
supposed to take place in the earth's atmosphere.! 

In the year ISOS the French Academy of Sciences proposed the problem of 
the double refraction of light as the subject of a prize to be awarded two years 
thereafter. The successful competitor for this prize was Mains. To him is due 
the discovery of the polarization of light by reflection. He was led to this re- 
markable discovery by an accident. In observing through a prism of Iceland 
spar the light reflected to his windows from those of the palace of the Luxem- 
bourg, he was surprised to see that, as he turned the prism around the ray, one 
of the two images vanished at every quarter revolution. By following up th3 
indication thus given, he arrived at the important law that, when light is re- 
flected from glass at an angle of 54° 35', or from water at an angh; of 52^ 45', 
it possesses all the properties which belong to the pencils into which a ray of 
ordinary light is divided by a doubly refracting crystal. Accordingly, if such 
a crystal be placed in the path of such a reflected ray, with the principal plane 
of the crystal, or a conjugate plane, in the plane of reflection, the ray will not 
be doubly refracted. But if the crystal be turned in azimuth, two rays will 
make their appearance, unequal at first in intensity, but becoming equal at the 
azimuth of 45^. Beyond this azimuth the ray which Avas previously most in- 
tense fades gradually away, while the other gains in strength, until, at 90^ the 
former disappears entirely, and the latter remains alone. These phenouKniaare 
repeated in every quadrant. 

If the ray which has been reflected as above described be incident upon a 
second surface of glass, at the same angle, (54° 35',) as at first, the plane of 
second reflection corresponding with that of the first, it is in part reflected and 
in part transmitted, as is the case with common light ; but if the second plane of 
reflection be at an azimuth of 90° with that of the first, no reflection at ail will 
occur, but the whole ray will be transmitted. 

A ray of light therefore, which has undergone the modification which is pro- 
duced by transmission through a doubly refracting crystal, or by reflection at an 
incidence of 54° 35' from glass, or at that of 52"^ 45' from water, seems to pos- 
sess dissimilar physical properties on the sides which arc at right angles to each 
other, and similar ones on the sides which are diametrically opposed. This 



" The important researches of Kirchhoff iiiid Buusen on the chemical relations of the fixed 
lines of the spectrum have been published since the preparation of these lectures. 

■j- KuLiiliulf and Bimsen have demonstra.ted that this absorption takes place (at least in case 
of many of the lines) in the atmosphere of the sun. 



12S POLARIZATION OF LIGHT. 

circumstance, from a sort of fanciful analogy which it presents with the relations 
of the poles of the; magnet, has suggested the name polarization, to distinguish 
this condition of light. 

An interesting experiment of Mains, illustrating the identity of the phenomena 
of polarization by reflection, and polarization by double refraction, is the follow- 
ing: Let a ray of liglit pass, at a perpendii-ular incidence, throitgh a crystal of 
Iceland spar, undergoing division into two rays ; and afterAvards let these rays 
fall at an incidence of 52° 4-5' on water, or of 54' 35' on glass. Let then the 
crystal be turned in azimuth until the principal section coincides with th(! plane 
of reflection. The extraordinary ray will cease to be reflected altogether, though 
the ordinary ray undergoes reflection as usual. Turning the crystal once more 
in azimuth, until the principal section is 90 ~ from the plane of reflection, the 
ordinary ray will, in its turn, wholly cease to be reflected, and the extraordinary 
ray will revive. 

Another interesting and very curious experiment by Brewster, analogous to the 
foregoing, may be performed thus : Let the light of a candle or other luminous 
object be polarized by reflection, and afterward received, at the polarizing angle, 
upon a plate of plane glass, which has its plane of reflection in azimuth 90^ 
fi'om the plane of polarization. It will, as we have just seen, be wholly trans- 
mitted, so that, to an eye placed anywhere in the direction in which reflection 
would ordinarily occur, the radiant will be invisible. The. eye remaining in 
thi- position, let now another person breathe upon the glass plate, and instantly 
the luminous object will appear, and will contuiue to be seen until the film cf 
moisture left by the breath has evaporated. This is because the polarizing 
angl for Avater is not the same as that for glass. 

The experiment may be varied and made still more striking by placing a 
second plate by the side of the first, and adjusting this one to tin- polarizing 
angle for water. The radiant will then be visible in the second plate, bur not 
in the first. In this state of things, if both plates be breathed on simulta- 
neously, the light in the second plate will be extinguished and that in the first 
revived by the same breath 

It is only at the angles which have been mentioned that polarization by re- 
flection is complete. But partial polarization takes place in reflection at any 
anglf ; being zero at the incidences 0' and 90 ^ and increasing from those inci- 
dences up to the polarizing angle. 

Light is polarized by reflection from all polished surfaces; but it is only in 
the case of bodies whose indexes of refraction are in the neighborhood of 1.4 
that the modification which it undergoes has the simplicity which belongs to the 
examples we are considering. The index of water is 1.336, and that of crown 
glass 1.48 to 1.53. 

It was the conclusion of Mains that the angle of polarization of a given body 
is independent both of its refractive and of its dispersive power. Dr. Brewster, 
however, demonstrated that this angle depends on the refi'active power; and is 
connected with it by the law that '• the index of refraction of any body is the 
tangcmt of the angle of polarization." 

From this law we derive one or two interesting consequences; first, at the 
angle of polarization the reflected ray is perpmdicular to the refracted ray, for, 
putting £ for the angle of incidence, p for the angle of refraction, and n fur the 
index, the law of Snellius gives us %sin//=:sin: ; and the law of Brewster, just 
mentioned, gives ?i in: tan;. Hence — 

siut 
tan: sinp^z:^- — sin/) = sin:; or, sin^'--=cos;, and i-{-p^=^90^. 
cos; 

Secondly, when light falls upon a transparent plate having parallel surfaces, 
if the angle of incidence at the first sm-face is the polarizing angle, the angle of 
incid'ence at the second surface will also be the polarizing angle for that surface 



LAW OF MALUS. 129 

In tliis case p is the angle of incidence and : tlie angle of refraction for the 

second surface, the index of refraction being - And we have — 

n. 

sine . . . _ 

tan/? sm£ = sinc = sm/); or, sm.' = cos/), and £ + /5 = 90'^ 

COSf» • 

Wc have seen that when the two polarized rays into wliich a sinjjle ray of 
common light is divided by double refraction in passing through a rhomb of 
Iceland spar fall upon a second similar rhomb, they are both of them subdi- 
vided in most of the positions of the second rhomb ; but that the intensities of 
the rays of each pair are unequal, except when the prmcipal planes of the 
rhombs differ in azimuth 45°, and that one membcii.- of each pair disappears en- 
tirely when the principal planes arc coincident or normal to each other. The 
inequality of intensity is variable, and is dependent on the angle between the 
principal planes. If one ray of either pair be observed through all its varia- 
tions, it will be found to begin from zero of intensity, to increase regularly in 
brightness for 90°, and then to diminish through the second 90°, to zero again. 
The other member of the same pair passes through a similar series of changes, 
but its maxima correspond in azimuth to the minima of the first, and its minima 
to the maxima of the first. 

A ray which has been polarized by reflection possesses the same character 
as those which have been produced by double refraction in Iceland spar; and 
accordingly, if such a ray be transmitted through a doubly refracting rhomb 
which is turned in azimuth in the manner just described, it will be divided into 
two rays which will alternately increase and diminish in intensity ; and of which 
one will become zero in the azimuth 0° or 90° between its plane of polarization 
and the principal section of the rhomb. Assuming the united ijitensities of the 
two rays into Avhieh a single one is thus divided by double refraction to be equal 
to the total intensity of the original ray, JMalus inferred that their several inten- 
sities should vary as the squares of the sines and the cosines of the azimuth. 
Thus, if /be put for the total original intensity and a for the azimuth, reckoned 
from the position- of coincidence of the plane of polarization with the principal 
section of the rhomb, then the ordinary ray would have the intensity Jcos'a; 
and the extraordinary, Jsin^a. These values fulfil the condition of constancy 
of sum ; since — 

I cos^a + I sin^a = I. 

If a ray which has been polarized by reflection fall, at the polarizing angle, 
upon a second mirror of transparent glass with parallel faces, it will be divided 
into two rays ; one of which will be reflected and the other transmitted. When 
the second mirror is turned in azimuth around the incident ray, these two de- 
rivative rays will undergo changes of intensity somewhat resembling those 
which have just been described as produced by double refraction. When the 
two planes of reflection are coincident, the intensity of the reflected ray will be 
maximum, and that of the transmitted ray, minimum. This minimum will not, 
however, be zero. When the two planes differ in azimuth 90°, the intensity of the 
transmitted ray Avill be maximum, and that of the reflected ray, minimum. 
This minimum will be zero ; and the simultaneous maximum of the transmitted 
ray will be equal to the total intensity of the incident light. The alternations 
in this case resemble, therefore, to a certain extent, those previously described 
as produced by double retraction ; but they are not represented by the law of 
Mains. 

The plane of j)olarization — an expression which we have just used without 
defining it — is the plane in which a polarized ray is capable of being reflected 
at the polarizing angle. Accordingly, when a ray of common light is polarized 
by reflection, the plane of incidence and reflection is itself the plane of polariza- 
tion. 

In the arrangement of two mirrors, as above described, when the second 
9s 



130 POLAEIZATION BY REFRACTION. 

mirror is rotated ia azirautli, its plane of incidence and reflection is constantly 
changing its inclination to the plane of polarization of the ray incident npon it. 
Suppose tlic incidence upon the second mirror not to be at the polarizing angle. 
It is found that after reflection in an oblique azimuth, the plane of polarization 
is nearer to the plane of reflection than it was at incidence. If the azimuth at 
incidence be represented by a, and that after reflection by «', there will be found 
to be a constant ratio between tana and tana'; tana' being always less than 
tana. By many reflections, with the same azimuth between the mirrors, 
the plane of polarization may be brought indefinitely near to the plane of re- 
flection; but it can never be made, in this way, absolutely coincident with it. 

When common light is reflected from any surface at an angle greater or less 
than the polarizing angle it is found to be partially polarized : that is to say, it 
is made up of a mixture of polarized light Avitli common light. By repeated 
reflections at the same incidence the polarization may be made sensibly com- 
plete. ■ The number of reflections necessary for this purpose Avill be greater as 
the angle of incidence is further from the polarizing angle. 

It must not be overlooked that, though at the angle Avhich we have called 
the polarizing angle, all the light that is reflected is polarized, yet that this is 
after all but a small portion of the incident light. From a single surface of 
glass it amounts to less than eight per cent. The manner of determining this 
ratio will be seen hereafter. When, for purposes of experiment, it is desired to 
obtain a large and intense beam of polarized light, it has accordingly been found 
useful to employ many reflecting plates placed one upon another, forming a 
hundle or pile. It is obvious that the thinner these plates are made, (so that 
they are not so thin as to produce color,) the more convenient they will be in 
use, and, from the diminution of absorption, the more economical of light. Not 
fewer than sixteen are usually employed. 

The amount of light reflected at difterent angles of incidence goes on increas- 
ing from 0° to 90°. The amount which is pola: -^ed in the reflected beam also 
goes on increasing, but not throughout the quadrant. For glass having the 
index 1.5, the incidence of maximum polarization is 79°. At this incidence 
the total intensity of the reflected light is expressed by the decimal 0.355, the 
intensity of the incident light being 1. The amount which is polarized in the 
reflected beam is, however, only 0.1518, which is still about double of that which 
is reflected at the polarizing angle. But, comparing this value with the fore- 
going 0.355, we shall see that it is less- than half th(> total light reflected, (forty- 
four per cent.,) and accordingly it is not suited to exact experiments in polariza- 
tion. 

When a transparent reflector is employed as a polarizer the transmitted beam 
will be found to contain light which is polarized in a plane perpendicular to the 
plane of refraction. The amount of light so polarized is exactly equal to the 
amount polarized at the same time by reflection, and in the plane of reflection. 
And as the maximum amount polarized by reflection from one surface of glass 
having the index 1.5, is 0.1518, this also is the maximum amount which can be 
polarized at one surface by refraction. But since, at this angle of maximum 
polarization, the total reflection is only 0.355, the total transmission will be 0.645, 
and of this amount the polarized portion will be but twenty-three and a half 
per cent. But if this light, already partially polarized, be transmitted through 
other refracting surfaces, though it will continually lose in total intensity by 
reflection, it will gain in the jjroforiion of the polarized light which it contains; 
and if the incidence is that of the polarizing angle for reflected light, the quan- 
tity transmitted W^ /c/i is poIa?-i zed, yv\\l continue to increase i?i absolute amount, 
notwithstanding the decrease of total intensity, until polarized light only is trans- 
mitted. Moreover, if the number of refracting plates employed should happen 
to be greater than is necessary to produce complete polarization, the supernu- 
merary plates will not reduce the amount of polarized light transmitted ; since, 
at the incidence supposed, they are incapable of reflecting light polarized trans- 
versely to the plane of reflection. This statement presumes, of course, that 



nicol's prism. 131 

the refracting surfaces are perfect, and that no light is lost by absorption in the 
media. 

It is a curious fact, resulting from the polarizing poAver of a pile of glass 
plates, that the pile is more transparent when held at an obliquity greater than 
the angle of polarization than it is at that angle ; and that the transparency in- 
creases with the obliquity. This is owing to the fact that the light which has 
been polarized by the first few laminae undergoes very little loss by reilcction 
on increasing the obliquity; but the amount i^olarizcd in those first refractions 
increases as the obliquity increases, more rapidly than the loss by reflection of 
the natural light falling on the same surfaces is increased. The intensity of the 
transmitted beam, therefore, becomes actually greater as the obliquity is greater: 
a fact which is the reverse of what happens with a single plate. 

A remarkable fact in regard to the condition of lig-ht emitted at great obli- 
quities from luminous solids or liquids, was discovered by Mr. Arago. When- 
ever the light of an incandescent body of either of these classes is examined as 
it proceeds directly from the body and with no great inclination to the luminous 
surface, it is found to be unpolarized. But when the rays whose obliquity to 
the surface is very considerable are the subject of examination, they are found 
to be partially polarized. Tin; inference is, that these rays have been polarized 
by refmction ; and hence that they must have originated beneath the surface of 
the luminous body. From the law of equality between the quantities of light 
simultaneously polarized by refraction and by reflection, it follows that there 
is a reflection toward the interior of such bodies, of some of the light which 
they generate. The light of flames and incandescent gases exhibits no such 
polarization. 

The light of the sun is always unpolarized, whether it be examined at the 
limb or at the centre of the disk. From tMs observation, Arago was led to 
consider the luminous envelope of the sun to be gaseous, and not liquid or solid. 
An incidental corroboration of the ingenious suggestion of the elder Herschel 
in regard to the constitution of the solar photosphere, is thus derived from 
optics; and although that hypothesis is by no means universally received, and 
though there seems recently to have been manifested an increasing disposition 
among men of science to call it into question, it w^ill be found diflicult to recon- 
cile the optical properties of the solar light with any supposition which implies 
that the luminous surface which we see is either liquid or solid. 

In observations upon polarized light, there are some inconveniences attending 
the use of a mirror, which, when turned in azimuth, obliges the obsex-ver to 
change his own position; or of a doubly refracting prism or crystal, which pre- 
sents two images often not sufiiciently separated. Both these disadvantages 
are obviated by means of a prism invented by Mr. Nicol, which is now in 
almost universal use. This contrivance is represented in 
the figure. It is an elongated rhomb, formed of Iceland 
spar, its length being about three times its breadth. 
Having been brought into this shape from the natural 
crystal, it is carefully sawed asunder in the plane which 
divides it symmetrically through its shortest diagonal, 
AD, and then reunited by means of Canada balsam. This substance is per- 
fectly transparent, and has a refracting power whose index is 1.532, interme- 
diate between those of the ordinary and extraordinary rays, viz., 1.654 and 1.488. 
The relative index between the crystal and the balsam for the ordinary ra^^ is 
1.0796, and the limiting angle of emergence from the former to the latter is 68^. 
The ordinary ray from Pt meets the surfocc, AD, at a greater angle than this, 
and is totally reflected at O. The extraordinary ray passes through. The 
sides of the prism are blackened to prevent a second reflection. 

This ingenious contrivance is invaluable to the observer in this interesting 
branch of optical investigation. Its advantages are, however, in some respects 
limited. The necessary length of the prism, as compared with its lateral di- 





132 POLARISCOPES. 

mensions, renders it difficult to employ light of any considerable convergency 
or divergency. The cost of the construction of such prisms increases also 
very rapidly with their magnitude; and few have been made at all which mea- 
sured more than an inch on the side. Those commonly found with opticians 
are much smaller than this. 

The eye-piece of Mr. Delezenne is a very good substitute for Nicol's prism; 
although it affords a less intensit}^ of light. In this, the surface CD is a pol- 
ished mirror of black glass ; ABD is a prism of trans- 
parent glass. B.r, Rr, rays of light falling at the pola- 
rizing incidence upon CD, are reflected at a perpen- 
dicular incidence upon the first surface of the glass 
prism ; and after being totally reflected on AB, emerge 
at right angles to the surface AD, meeting the eye of 
Fig 15- the observer at 0. 

Another convenient eye-piece, which may also serve, like Nicol's prism, as a 
polarizer for small beams, is formed of a lamina of tourmaline cut parallel to 
the axis. This mineral possesses the very remarkable property, when not in 
exceedingly thin laminre, of suppressing one of the rays into which incident 
common light is divided by it, and transmitting the other. The ray transmitted, 
as in Nicol's prison, is the extraordinary ray. Cut perpendicularly to the axis 
a plate of tourmaline is opaque. Two equal plates, cut parallel to the axis, are 
opaque when crossed upon each other. 

The disadvantages of the tourmaline eye-piece are, first, the color of the 
crystal, Avhich mars the beauty of the tints exhibited by polarized light, and to 
some extent neutralizes them. It is rather unfortunate that the crystals which 
are least colored are usually bad polarizers. In this respect different crystals 
very much differ. Some, which are light green, transmit a notable amount of 
the ordinary ray even when quite thick. Those vv^hich polarize best are usually 
brown or yellowish broAvn. Occasionally one of this kind will be found which 
polarizes well without being very disagreeably dark. But an equal if not 
greater disadvantage of the toiirmaline is the great b'rittleness of the crystal 
and the rarity of specimens in which fissures do iTOt naturally exist. It is 
difficult, therefore, to obtain clear plates of any considerable size. Finally, the 
supply seems, of late years, not to have kept pace with the demand; and op- 
ticians intimate that it is almost impossible to obtain specimens fit for optical 
purposes at all. 

A few years since Dr. Herapath, of London, announced the discovery of a 
property like that of the tourmaline, in artificially prepared crystals of the iodo- 
disulphate of quinine. These crystals are but slightly colored ; and could they 
easily be prepared and made permanent would probably come into general use. 
Dr. Herapath succeeded in obtaining specimens half an inch across. 

The peculiar property of the tourmaline was also early observed by Sir 
David Brewster, in agate; but that substance is not sufficiently transparent for 
the ]nirposes of optical experiment. 

When large polarizers are needed, resort must be had to reflection from mir- 
rors made of black glass, which reflect only from the first surface, or of trans- 
parent glass whose surfiices are truly parallel. If great purity in the polarized 
beam is not an object of importance, bundles of thin plates may be employed 
as heretofore described, to polarize either by reflection or by refraction. 

In the year 1811 Mr. Arago communicated to the Academy of Sciences of 
Paris, one of the most remarkable and beautiful discoveries which has ever 
been made in the history of optics. Upon examining thin plates of certain 
transjiarent crystals, such as mica, selenite, or quartz, by means of transmitted 
polarized light, he found that when the light was received upon the eye through 
a prism formed of Iceland spar, the richest^ conceivable colors made their ap- 
pearance, which were complementary to each other in the two images, and 
Avhich varied in intensity with the azimuth of the laminse or of the prism. 



COLORS m CRYSTALLINE PLATES. I33 

When the principal plauc of the prism coincides with the plane of polarization 
of the light, and the azimuth of the lamina is varied, the maximum brilliancy 
of coloring is found in the azimuth of 45° between the principal section of the 
lamina and the plane of polarization. When the azimuth is 0° or 90°, the 
color entirely vanishes, and the light appears entirely unchanged. At inter- 
mediate azimuths the color has an intermediate intensity, regularly increasing 
and diminishing between the positions of minimum and maximum. These 
variations, as well as the thickness of the laraina3 themselves in Avhich the phe- 
nomena appeared, satisfied Mr. Arago that the colors could not be owing to the 
same causes which produce the colors of NcAvton's rings. Still they had evi- 
dently some relation to the thickness; for it was not difficult to remove them 
entirely, either by considerably increasing the thickness or by excessively 
diminishing it. In the rotation of the lamina as just described, the colors 
which appeared between the successive positions of minimum were always the 
same in the same image. But when the lamina itself remained fixed, while the 
prism at the eye was rotated in azimuth, the two images interchanged their 
colors in passing each successive position of minimum. 

If, instead of a doubly refracting prism as an eye-piece, a mirror, presented 
to the ray at the polarizing angle, be employed, only one of the images is re- 
flected; but the other, if the mirror be transparent, will be seen in the light 
transmitted. In consequence of this separation of effects, Mr. Arago was led 
to distinguish the mirror xA\cn lased in this way as the analyzer. In observa- 
tions with the analyzer, then, it appears that when the lamina is rotated in azi- 
muth, the same colors come and go in the successive quadrants ; but when the 
analyzer itself is rotated, the colors in the alternate quadrants are comple- 
mentary to each other. 

The colors thus seen in crystalline lamince recur in several successive series, 
as the thickness of the lamince is increased. Accordingly, if in a ])late of sele- 
nite we hollow out a spherical cavity of very large radius, Ave shall find it to 
exhibit several orders of rings resembling those of NcAvton, and folloAving the 
same laws; though the thicknesses at Avhich the colors of the same order occur 
are A^ery much greater. According to the determinations of Biot, the compara- 
ti\^e thicknesses at Avhich the same colors appear in air, in Iceland spar, in 
quartz, in selenite, and in Siberian mica, are as the numbers 1, 13, 230, 230, and 
440; the thickness for selenite and quartz being sensibly the same. 

The limits of absolute thickness below Avhich crystalline plates fail to give 
colors in polarized light, are, for selenite, 0.017 in.; for mica, 0.0323 in.; and for 
Iceland spar, 0.001 in. The maximum thickness for this last cr3'stal is but six 
or seven one-thousandths of an inch. Jllica and selenite are therefore prepared 
Avith facility for this class of chromatic experiments ; but this is not equally 
true of Iceland spar. If a lamina of selenite — a mineral Avhich is very easily 
Avrought — be secured by transparent cement of any kind to a plate of glass, 
A^ery fanciful effects may be produced by grinding it away unequally in different 
parts according to any definite pattern. Figures of various kinds, images of 
insects, floAvers, gothic AvindoAvs, &c., &c., may thus be prepared, which Avill 
come out in polarized light in very brilliant colors. 

When laminas are presented obliquely to the polarized ray and the inclina- 
tion A'aried, the colors change Avith the obliquity; sometimes ascending in order 
Avith an increase and sometimes Avith a decrease of obliquity, according to the 
character of the crystal and the direction in Avhich the lamina has been taken 
from it. For these experiments it is best to cut the laminse parallel to the 
optic axes of the crystals. 

If tAvo lamina;, either or both of Avhich exceed the limits at which colors arc; 
seen, but Avhose difference of thickness is Avilhin those limits, be placed one upon 
the other Avith their principal sections crossed — that is to say, placed at right 
angles to each other — colors Aviil be seen corresponding to those of single 



134 



CEYSTALS CUT ACROSS THE AXIS 



laminte whose thicknesses are the differences of those employed in the experi- 
ment. This supposes that the hamina; are of the same kind. If they are not, 
the actual thicknesses arc not to be employed in the calculations, but what may 
be called the hi-refr'mgent equivalents of thickness — that is to say, their measured 
thicknesses divided by the numbers expressing their chromatic relation to the 
plates of air which give Newton's rings — which latter numbers may be called 
their chromatic equivalents. If, then, the difference of these quotients, multi- 
plied by th-G chromatic equivalent corresponding to the greater quotient, is 
^vithin the limits at which the crystal to which the greater quotient belongs 
gives colors, the combination will give the color belonging to the value of that 
product. 

If the lamina? belong to crystals of which one is positive and the other 
negative, they are not to be crossed in this experiment, but their principal sec- 
tions must be parallel. This furnishes an easy test for determining whether a 
given crystal 'is positive or negative. Having prepared a lamina of the crystal 
to be examined, (which may be of any convenient thickness,) apply it upon 
lamina? of Iceland spar of different thicknesses, with the principal sections suc- 
cessively parallel and crossed. If the colors appear v>^hen the planes are parallel, 
the signs are opposite, since, either plate being too thick to produce color alone, 
the sum of their effects cannot, of course, do so. If the crystals are of similar 
sign, the colors will appear when the planes are crossed. 

Another class of chromatic effects produced by crystalline plates viewed in 
polarized light was first observed by Dr. WoUaston in Iceland spar, in vrhich 
the display is, perhaps, the most brilliant. In these cases, the crystal is cut 
perpendicularly across the axis. The arrangements for observation are the same 
as in the experiments already described. If a mirror be employed as an 
analyzer, and be turned to azimuth 90° before the introduction of the crystalline 
plate, no light will, of course, be reflected to the eye. But the moment the 
crystal is introduced a system of concentric rings will make its appearance, 
colored with the richest conceivable tints, and marked by a black cross, whose 
;irms are in the plane of reflection, and at right angles to it, passing through the 
centre. 



/^. 





Fig. 16. Fig. 17. 

The ends of these arms are enlarged, and have the appearance of brushes. 
If the analyzer is transparent, another set of rings may be seen by the trans- 
mitted light, in which the colors will be complementary to the former, and the 
cross wiM be white. As the analyzing mirror is revolved in azimuth, the colors 
fade and a new set of rings gradually appears with colors complementary to the 
tirst, and distinguished by a white cross. In short, in this case, the colors before 
transmitted are reflected, and those before reflected are transmitted. The annexed 
ligures exhibit the two aspects of the rings which have been just described. 



CRYSTALS OF QUARTZ ACROSS THE AXIS. 135 

These riugs make tlieir appearance at thicknesses much greater than tliose 
which produce color in hxmina; parallel to the axis. 

In examining plates of quartz cut across the axis as above described, Mr. 
Arago observed a peculiarity of a remarkable kind, which is scarcely found in 
any other natural crystal. The centre of the field was not dark in any position 
of the analyzer, but was deeply and uniformly colored with a tint which varied 
as the analyzer was turned. When a bi-refringent prism Avas employed as an 
analyzer, the two images seen Avere constantly complementary in color, and as 
the analyzer was turned they ascended in tint, in the order of Newton's scale, 
from red to violet. Mr. Biot, in subsequent experiments, discovered that in 
some crystals the ascent of the tints in the scale is produced by a right-hand 
rotation, (the ordinary direction of a screw,) and in others, by a left-hand rota- 
tion. These classes of crystals have been distinguished by the names right- 
handed and left-handed crystals, or dcxtrogyre and Imvogyre. Sir John Her- 
schel, at a later period, made the remarkable observation that these optical 
peculiarities of the crystals are associated with a geometrical or crystallographic 
peculiarity. The tetrahedral angles where the prism and terminal pyramid 
of the crystal meet, are sometimes replaced by planes which encroach more on 
the neighboring planes of one side than on those of the other. The same 
occasionally happens Avith the lateral edges of the crystal. These faces are 
called j)lagilLedral. If, as the crystal is held in the hand horizontally, Avith the 
pyramidal A^ertex toward the observer, the plagihedral foces lean to the right — 
that is, if they encroach most upon the faces to the right of them — the crystal 
Avill be found to be optically dextrogyre, and the analyzer Avill have to be turned 
in the direction of the movements of the hands of a AA'atch, in order that the 
tints may ascend. 

Sir David Brewster's observations on these 
crystals led to the discoA^cry that, when the 
ystal is not very thick the uniformly tinted field 
confined to the centre, and is surrounded by 
^'4. , a system of rings resembling those seen in Ice- 

^1^: ' hind spar, but in which the cross is imperfect. 

f|f, "!io figure exhibits the appearance. He also 

l|; ^ 'ind in that remarkable species of colored 

\V ^/" (juartz called amethyst, veins of right-handed and 

,#- W%^ left-handed crystallization alternating Avith each 

\ other in many parallel layers, and producing at 

''>i^^m^:<m:^'-:^^^i'^--'^^~^-^^^''<s^M^ ''^''''^" ^^1^'^^ces of contact lines of neutral character. 

■■-mm"-^ '"■"^•is.-::^.TJss^ '' ^&^ la some specimens the layers were found to be 
Fig- IS. so extremely thin as to neutralize the rotatory 

poAver of the whole crystal, and in these instances the ordinary system of rings 
with a perfect cross makes its appearance. 

In all these observations upon crystals in the direction of their optic axes 
tlie number of rings is greatly increased by the use of monochromatic light. 
The intervals between the rings are also, in such light, intensely dark. In the 
case of quartz crystals, monochromatic light presents appearances in the centre 
very little different from those s(?en Avhen the crystal is not present — that is to 
say, it exhibits, as the analyzer is turned, a succession of maxima and minima, 
separated from each other in azimuth 90 ^ But the absolute azimuths of these 
maxima and minima are no longer what they AA^^re before the introduction of 
the crystal : in other words, the plane of polarization has been turned to the 
right or to the left, according to the nature of the crystal, througli an angular 
distance proportioned to the thickness of the crystal. The peculiar kind of 
polarization produced by quartz has, on this account, been called rotalary 
polarization. 




136 



AirA S f-TIRALS — FEESKEL S PRISM. 






%/ 



^-^^ixiJii^ 



It will be easily conceived tliat a right 
handed and a left-lianded crystal of equal 
thickness?, superposed upon each other, 
will produce a resultant rotation equal to 
zero. But two such plates so super- 
posed, examined in polarized light, ex- 
hibit a remarkable spiral cross, such as is 
seen in the figure annexed. These spi- 
rals were first observed by Mr. Airy, and 
are commonly known as Airy's spirals. 

Two contrary plates of unequal thick- 
ness, superposed as above, produce an 
amount of rotation proportional to their 
difference of thickness. 

The power of rotation of the same 
crystal is different for the different colors, 
being, on the undulatory theory of light, an inverse function of the length of 
the undulations. By employing the successive colors of the spectrum sepa- 
rately, Mr. Biot determined the absolute rotatory power of a crystalline plate of 
quartz one twenty-fifth of an inch in thickness, for each, as follows : 




Extreme red 17.4964 

Limit, red and orange 20.4798 

Limit, orange and yellow — .22.3138 
Limit, yellow and green 25.6752 



Limit, green and blue 30.0460 

Limit, bhie and indigo 34.5717 

Limit, indigo and violet 37.6829 

Extreme- violet 44.0827 



'J'his property of rotatory polarization does not exist in plates of quartz cut 
parallel to the axis. In such plates ordinary double refraction exists ; but it is 
the extraordinary instead of the ordinary ray whose velocity is least, or the 
crystal is a positive one. 

The physical cause of rotatory polarization is unknown. Mr. Biot supposed 
it to belong to the ultimate molecules of the substance ; but this hypothesis Sir 
David Brewster believed to be disproved by the fact that the property ceases 
to appear in quartz Vi^hose crystalline structure has been destroyed by fusion. 
This argument seems, nevertheless, not to be conclusive. If the property bo- 
longs to the ultimate molecules, the fact that it does not appear when the crys- 
tals are examined across the axis, proves that a regular arrangement of them, 
presenting their similar sides in a common direction, is necessary for its display. 
Fusion breaks up the regular arrangement, and thus destroys this essential 
condition. The fact, however, that different crystals turn the ray, in different 
directions, is apparently decisive against the hypothesis of Mr. Biot; and the 
connexion of this difference of property with difference of crystallogi'aphic mcdi- 
ficai ion, seems to indicate that the phenomenon is an effect of the structural 
arrr.ngoment of the molecules. Indeed, it is observed, in, the fracture of quartz 
crystals that there is occasionally something actually resembling a spiral ar- 
rangement of parts. 

The di-uble reiraction.of quartz along its axis was experimentally analyzed 
by Fiesr.el by means of a very ingenious arrangement. The difference of 
■\-elocity of theitwo rays being so slight as to render their separation by ordinary 
expedients difficuli., he devised and constructed a compound prism by which to 
double their dovergeacy. In the annexed figure, A13F and CDF represent 
similar triangular prisms of right-handed quartz, with 
the faces AB, CD, cut perpendicularly to the axis. 
The obtuse-angled prism BFD, having the angle 
BFD equal to the supplement of 2AFB, has its 
base, BD, parallel to the axis of a crystal of left- 
handed quartz. The incident ray II' falling per- 
pendicularly upon AB, is separated into two, whose 




Fi- 20. 



CIECULAE POLARIZATION FRESNEL 8 RHOMB. J37 

velocities differ, but wliicli pursue the same path, which is the axis. At the 
surface BF their paths become different, tlie velocity of 011 e of them passing 
from — to + , and that of the other from + to — . At th(5 surface VD this 
divergency is increased, the velocities again interchanging their relations. At 
final emergence from the face CD, the- divei-gency will be further slightly 
increased in consequence of the inclination of the emergent rays to the surface. 
By this arrangement a sufficient separation of the two. rays is obtained to make 
it possible to examine them singly. And it is obvious that a duplication of the 
system of prisms here shown, or a still greater increase in the number of ele- 
ments employed, would, if necessary, make the separation still wider. 

If quartz were like other uniaxial crystals in the law governing refraction 
along its axis — that is, if the velocities of the two rays were in that direction 
equal in this crystal as they are in others — the system of prisms just described 
would produce no separation of the rays. The fact of the separation proves 
quartz to be in this respect an exceptional case. When the separated rays are 
examined, however, the extent to which quartz is exceptional is discovered to 
be much greater than is implied in the difference just indicated. The peculiari- 
ties are the following, and are true of either of the separated rays. 

Examined with a doubly refracting prism, two perfectly equal images appear 
in all azimuths of the prism. Received upon a mirror at the polarizing angle, 
equal reflection takes place in all azimuths of the mirror. In these respects the 
rays resemble ordinary unpolarized light. 

But in the follov/ing particulars they differ : Transmitted through thin crys- 
talline plates they display, on being analyzed, tints like those produced by 
polarised light, only they are such tints as ordinary polarized light produces in 
thicknesses of crystal greater or less, by a determinate amount, than those used 
in the experiment. 

Transmitted through a rhomb of glass, like that represented 
in the figure, of which the acute dihedral angles ai'e 54|', they 
emerge, after two internal total reflections, at Q and P, polar- 
ized in planes, one in azimuth 45° on the right, and the other 
in azimuth 45*^ on the left, of the plane of reflection. If both 
Qf^ / are transmitted through the rhomb simultaneously, so as to 

/ I / emerge together, they will form a single ray polarized in the 

JE \o plan:- of reflection. 

T"* Bays in this condition are said to be circularly polarized 

Firr. il. And as it appears that a circularly polarized ray becomes /jZa;^,? 

polarized by two internal reflections in glass, at an angle of incidence of 54° 3u', 
the resultant plane of polarization being in azimuth 45" from the plane of reflec- 
tion, it follows that a plane polarized ray may be circularly polarized by caus- 
ing it to make two similar reflections, the plane of its original polarization being 
45-' in azim.uth from that of the first reflection. This is effected by the use '>f 
a rhomb such as has been just described, and Avhicb, from its originator, has 
been called Fresnel's rhomb. It is obvious that, if a plane polarized ray be 
thus passed through two of Fresnel's rhombs successively, it will emerge plane 
polarized. 

Mr. Fresnel was led to the discovery of the remarkable property of th-; 
rhomb which bears his name, by theoretic considerations. When light is pass- 
ing from a denser to a rarer medium, the, angle of refraction is greater than the 
angle of incidence, and the law of Snellius, 

sin: 
sin,o 
gives a value for n, the index of refraction, less than unity. Noav as 1 is the 
greatest possible sine, if we put sin,o = l, we shall have sin£=:w; and there- 
fore £ itself less than 90*^. For an incidence greater than this value of : there 




138 TOTAL REFLECTION ELLIPTIC POLARIZATION. 

can be uo emergent ray; and hence tlna is called the Ihniiing angle. For all 
incidences from j to 90° the whole of the light is reflected; and this is what is 
meant by total rfficction at second surfaces. 

Mr. Fresnel found that the mathematical formirloj which he had deduced from 
his theory of light, to express the intensity of reflection at different incidences, . 
became imaginary in the case of total reflection ; and in reasoning on the prob- 
able causes of their failure, he was led to predict that a rhomb of glass, having 
the angles above stated, would produce precisely the efi'ect which has just been 
described. Experiment proved the truth of this anticipation. The nature of 
the modification which light undergoes in these circumstances will be more fully 
explained further on. 

Reflection from metals presents characters which resemble those of reflection 
from the second surface of transparent media. There is this difference : that 
common light totally reflected exhibits no traces of polarization; but common 
light reflected from metallic surfaces is partially polarized. When the incident 
light at second surfaces is polarized in an azimuth bi'tween 0° and 90^^ the modi- 
fications which it undergoes lescmblc those produced by metals. This subject 
was fi.st systematically investigated by Sir David Brewster. He first discov- 
ered that polarized light, after having unde:gone one total reflection in an azi- 
muth between 0'^ and 90°, produced colors, when examined with an analyzer, 
analogous to those produced by thin crystalline laminae. He afteiwa.ds ascer- 
tained that a polarized ray which has undergone successive reflections from 
phme metallic mirrors placed parallel to each other, when the original azimuth 
of reflection is 45° from the plane of polarization, will exhibit similar tints. 
Th" angle of incidence at which the effect is best produced varies with different 
metals, but is in all, or nearly all cases, above 70° and below 80". The biight- 
ness of the tints increases with the number of reflections. 

Sir David B.ewstei' also found this analogy between the effects of such a pair 
of parallel metallic mirrors and a pair of Fiesnel's rhoinbs : that at a ce. taiu 
angh of incidence, different for different metals, the effect of the reflection on 
the first mirror would be exactly compensated by that on the second, and the 
ray would emerge plane polarized. But he found also this difference between the 
ca-=es : that while (the azimuth of incidence being + 45°) the ultimate plane of 
polarization with the rhombs was — 45°, that with the metallic mirrors was 
always less than this, being for silver, in which it was greatest, — 39° 48', and 
for galena, in which it Avas least, no more than — 2°. There is also this addi- 
tional and very remarkable difference : In the case of the rhombs, after the 
light has undergone reflection in the first, it will be restored to its original con- 
dition by the second, no matter what be the azimuth between the planes of 
reflection in the two rhombs. But in the case of the mirrors, if the second be 
turned in azimuth, it will no longer restore the ray, unless the angle of incidence 
be changed also. If it be turned quite roimd, the angle of incidence required 
to effect restoration will pass through a series of regular variations between 
determinate limits, which variations may be represented by the varying radii of 
an eDipse. It was on this account that the term elliptical polarization was 
originally applied to light in this physical condition. We shall see, further on, 
that the propriety of the term may be established on other grounds. 

Common light reflected from metallic surfaces is more or less elliptically 
polarized. In fact, the recent investigations of Mr. Jamin and others have 
proved that there are very few substances which furnish by reflection from their 
surfeces absolutely pure plane polarized light. None are capable of doing so 
whose indexes 'of r(-fraction excised or fall short of 1.414. Water and glass do 
Bo sensibly; but in this respect they arc nearly exceptional. 



CRYSTALS OF TWO AXES. 



139 






/ 




The rings seen ii\ ciystals cut across tlie 
axis, wlien examined in cii'cularly polarized 
light, exhibit some singular peculiarities. 
They are divided into quadrants by a cross 
which is neither very daik nor very biig^t, 
and which does not change in intensity witli 
the revolution of the analyzer, but turns with 
it. The rings in the alternate quadrants are 
vncovformahle, those in one opposite pair 
being nearer to the centre, and those in the 
other more distant from the centre, by a 
quarter of an interval, than the corresponding 
rings in plane polarized light. This singular 
arrangement is shown in Fig. 22. 

Mr. Airy found that light may be circu- 
larly polarized by refraction, in passing 
through laminte of crystals which doubly refract ; provided the thickness of the 
laminai used is such as, ou the undulatory theory of light, is just sufficient to 
effect a. retardation of one of the rays produced by the double refraction, one- 
quarter of an undulation behind the other, or to advance it one- quarter of an 
undulation before the (ither. The mineral employed by him for this purpose, 
and which is more conveniently prepared of suitable thickness than most others, 
is mica ; of which the laminae are easily separable, and cleave in large sheets 
without breaking. A lamina reduced to a thickness proper to produce circular 
polarization is commonly called a " quarter-wave lamina." 

For some time after the discoveries had been made of which a brief account 
has here been given, it was supposed that all doubly refracting crystals have 
but a single optic axis. In the year 1817, however. Sir David Brewster 
announced the remarkable fact that most crystals have two optic axes instead 
of one. The rings seen in crystals of two axes are elliptical, when the axes are 
so far apart that only one can be observed at a time; and they form lemniscate 
curves, or curves resembling the figure 8, when they are near together. In topaz 





Fig. 24. 

the axes form an angle with each other of G5°, and the rings present the appear- 
ance shown in Fig. 23, when the analyzer is crossed upon the polarizer, the 
plane of the axes of the crystal being in azimuth 0° or 90°. This crystal pos- 
sesses the peculiarity of showing its own rings without the help of an analyzer 
when the plate subjected to experiment is cut across the line intermediate 
between the axes, the opposite surfaces being parallel. In such a plate, in order 
that the ray may follow the line of one of the axes within the crystal, its angle 
of incidence must be 62j°. The angle of refraction will then be 32^°. The 
incident angle at either the first or the second surface will, therefore, be very 
nearly equal to the polarizing angle for the substance, since the reflected and 
refracted rays make an angle of So*^ with each other ; Avhereas, according to 
the law of Brewster, at the polarizing angle they should be at right angles. 
If, therefore, instead of observing the light transmitted through the plate, we 



140 



POLARIZING STRUCTURE ARTIFICIALLY PRODUCED. 



] eccive upon the eye tlie rays reflected from the second surface and emergent 
from the first, the reflecting surface itself forms an analyzer sufficiently perfect 
to exhibit the rings. But as the angle of reflection is not truly the polarizing 
angle, when the crystal is in azimuth 90° the dark baud will not be as large as 
is the case in the rings seen with a better analyzer by transmitted light. Fig. 
24 exhibits the appearance of these reflected rings. 

In Figs. 25 and 26, which follow, are seen the appearances presented when 
the subject of examination is saltpetre, (nitrate of potash,) in which the axes 
are inclined to each other 6°. The plane of the axes of the crystal being brought 




w 







Fis. 25. 



Fi-. 26. 



into coincidence with the plane of polarization of the incident light, and the 
analyzer being crossed upon the polarizer, a system of lemniscate curves is 
seen, like that shown in Fig. 25, intersected by a dark cross, of which the bar 
coinciding in direction with the plane of the axes is longest. If the analyzer 
be turned 90°, the colors become complementary, and the cross becomes white; 
but if, the analyzer and polarizer remaining fixed, the crystal itself is turned in 
azimuth, the cross will break at the centre, forming two curves, which, when 
the rotation becomes forty-five degrees, assume the form of two opposite hyper- 
bolas. This appearance is exhibited in Fig. 26. 

In the prosecution of his investigations, Sir David Brewster arrived at the 
discovery that the polarizing structure could be artificially produced in glass by 
heat or by rapid cooling; that this cfiect is transient when the heat is below 
the point of softening or fusing the substance ; but that when it is carried beyond 
that point, and cooling rapidly follows, as in glass which is not annealed, the 
structure is permanent. He found that the same structure could be produced 
by pressure, by torsion, by tension, or by flexure; and traced the transient con- 
dition of the same kind produced by heat to the mechanical effects of unequal 
expansion. Any solid transparent substance, organic or mineral, was found by 
him to be capable of receiving this structure transiently or permanently. Among 
these may be named horn, indurated jellies, tortoise shell, gums, resins, the 
crystalline lenses of fishes or animals, &c., &c. 

When cylinders, tubes, rhombs, or other geometrical forms of well-annealed 
glass are subjected to a sudden inci'ease of temperature acting upon all their sur- 
face, as by immersing them in hot water or hot oil, there will be seen within 
them, by polarized light, systems of symmetrical figures, circular and concentric 
in cylinders, and dependent on the form of the solid for their shape in other cases, 
bearing a striking resemblance to the rings seen in crystals. Like those rings, 
these figures are marked by a cross, which changes from black to white with 



ROTATORY POLARIZATION OF LIQUIDS. 141 

the rotation of tlic analyzer. But these figures will alter their forms if the glass 
be broken, which is not true of the rings formed in crystal. When the heat 
has fully peneti-ated the glass, and the interior temperature is uniform, the 
figures cease to be seen. At this time, if the heated glass be removed from the 
bath, and alloAved to cool rapidly, a new system of figures will spring up Avilhin 
it. This is related to the former one, as the rings of a positive crystal are to 
those of a negative one ; and, therefore, if two similar solids, in one of which 
the former set of figures is seen, and in the other the latter, be superposed when 
the intensities are equal, they Avill neutralize each other's effects, and the rings 
will disappear. This structure may be made permanent in the glass solids wc 
have been considering by heating them nearly to the point of fusion and then 
suddenly cooling them. Many common articles of glass are so imperfectly an- 
nealed as to display the doubly refracting structure in a striking manner. The 
stoppers of bottles, if cut across the axis and polished, will invariably show it ; 
so will the stems of wine glasses, the stirring-rods of the chemist's laboratory, 
and mr.ny, if not all, glass tubes. 

The effects of heat are also remarkable in altering the doubly refracting 
character of crystals. Mr. Mitscherlich discovered that heat expands crystals 
uneqnaljy in different directions. Iceland spar is expanded in the direction 
of its axis, and slightly contracted at right angles to the axis. Its doubly re- 
fracting power is thus diminished. In sulphate of lime, which is a crystal of 
two axes inclined to each other 60°, he found that the inclination diminishes 
with elevation of temperature, until the two axes unite in one; after which, 
with further increase of heat, they open out in a plane at right angles to the 
first. Dr. Brewster discovered an example even more remarkable in glauherite. 
At the freezing point, this crystal has two optic axes for every color of the 
spectrum, the inclination of the axes of the red being greatest, and that of the 
violet being least. At ordinary temperatures it has two axes for red and one 
for violet. When heat is applied, the other axes approach, as in the case just 
described, and, after successively uniting, successively open out in the transverse 
plane. 

In comparing the crystals which possess the power of double refraction. ( being 
by far the greater number of the Avhole, ) there is found to be a certain relation 
between the optical character of the crystal and the crystallographic structure. 
All crystals whose primitive form is the cube, the regular octahedron, or the 
rhomboidal dodecahedron — figiu-cs whose geometrical axes are all equal — are des- 
titute of the property. All crystals which have one axis greater or less than the 
others are crystals of one optic axis. All crystals whose geometric axes are all 
three unequal have two axes of double refraction. 

In the year 1815, Mr. Biot made the remarkable discovery that many liquids 
possess the power of rotatory polarization — a discovery which was independently 
made by Mr. Seebeck ; the effect was first observed in oil of turpentine, but has 
since been found in most essential oils, in solutions of sugar, dextrine, the vege- 
table alkaloids, camphoric and tartaric acid, and the tartrates. In some of these 
substances the plane of polarization is turned to the right and in others to the 
left. Their relative rotatory forces are estimated by a comparison of the amount of 
angular change in azimuth produced upon a polarized ray in passing through a 
column of given length ; but as yet there has been no universal agreement upon 
a standard length. The statements of experimenters, therefore, usually embrace 
both the angular rotation and the length of the column by which it has been 
produced, rendering a reduction to a common length necessary before a correct 
comparison can be instituted. It would perhaps be most convenient to adopt 
as a standard length, the length of the tube introduced by Mr. Solcil into his 
saccliarimeter, or instrument for measuring the rotation in solutions of sugar, 
which is twenty centimetres. With this length the dextro-gyration of the oil 
of bitter oranges is, for red light, 157°.89, which is the maximum observed in 



IA2 HEMIHEDRISM TPIE TARTRATES. 

this class ot' liquids. The laevo-gyration of narcotiue, in alcohol and ether, is 
151°. 4; that of sulphate of quiniue, in water acidiilatcd with sulphuric acid, is 
192°.95 in the same direction. Solution of crystallizahle cane sugar is dextrogyre ; 
that of uncrystallizable cane sugar, or molasses, is Irevogyre. Solution of sugar 
of grapes is also dextrogyre when prepared from the juice, and before solitlifica- 
tiou; hut if evaporated to dryness and redissolved, it is lajvogyre. Crystallizable 
cane sugar is made imcrystallizable by heat, and its rotatory power is accordingly 
reversed l^y the same cause. -In many solutions the introduction of an acid 
modifies the rotatory power. Narcotiue, from being— 151°. 4, becomes, after the 
addition of hydrochloric acid, 4-83^. Cane sugar has its rotatory power inverted 
in the same way. Upon this principle is founded the construction of Soleil's 
saccharimcter just mentioned. A solution of the sugar to be examined is made 
of a definite density, and its rotatory power observed in a tube twenty centimetres 
in length. There is then added to the solution a measured amount, oue-tenth 
of its volume, of strong hydrochloric acid, and a heat of about 150° F., applied 
for ten minutes ; after which it is cooled and observed again in a tube one-tenth 
longer than before. Its rotation Avill now be wholly negative. The original 
observation will give the difference between the rotatory effects of* the crystal- 
lizable and uncrystallizable sugar present, and the second observation will give 
the sum of the same effects. From these data the relative quantities of the 
two kinds contained in the solution may be deduced. For convenience, tables 
to accompany the instrument are prepared in advance, from which the values 
sought may be foiind by inspection. A saccharimcter has also been conti'ived 
by Mr. Mitscherlich. 

Mr. Pasteur has made a very elaborate examination of the salts of tartaric 
and paratartaric acid in their relations to polarized light. All the tartrates are 
dextrogyre ; the paratartrates have no rotatory power at all. Mr. Pasteur made 
the interesting discovery that paratartaric acid which is the same as racemic, and 
which differs from tartaric acid only in having an additional atom of water, is 
composed of two acids, one of which has a positive and the other a negative rota- 
tory power. The dextro-racemic acid is simply tartaric acid, and the dextro-race- 
mates arc tartrates. Paratartaric acid and its salts owe their neutral character 
to the balance of opposite forces belonging to their components. 

In considering the crystalline forms of these different salts, Mr. Pasteur de- 
tected a relation between them and their polarizing properties, such as has already 
been described to exist in quartz ; that is to say, the salts which possess rota- 
tory power have plagihedral faces leaning in the direction of rotation. The 
crystals are all of the kind called by Mr. Weiss hemihedral ; that is to say, not 
in all respects symmetrical. Mr. Pasteur observed that there are two kinds 
of hemihedral ciystals, which he has distinguished as the stipcrposahlc and the 
non-supcrj)Osahlc. When a crystal, or any solid, or surface is such that another 
may be conceived or constructed like it in every particular as to form and dimen- 
sions, yet incapable of being made to occupy the same matrix or mould, such a 
crystal, or solid, or surface belongs to the class of the non-super posahlc. The 
image of the face in a mirror, as compared with the face itself; the left hand or 
the left foot, as compared with the right, and many analogous objects natural and 
artificial, may serve to illustrate this conception. Mr. Pasteur found that all the 
crystals whose salts possess the rotatory power are hemihedral and non-super- 
posable; and, conversely, that all salts whose crystals are non-superposably 
hemihedral have the power of circular polarization, with two exceptions only 
thus far known, which are formiate of strontian and sulphate of magnesia. In 
the latter case the crystal is so very nearly superposable, that it is hardly sur- 
prising that it should not sensibly conform to the law. In the instance of the 
formiate of strontian, Mr. Pasteur thinks that the hemihedrism does not depend 
on the arrangement of atoms in the chemical molecule but on that of the physi- 
cal molecules in the entire crystal ; so that, on solution, the structure on which 



ATMOSPHERIC POLARIZATION. ]^43 

tlie rotatory power depouds, disappears in tlic same manner as it is known to do 
in qnartz on fusion. It is impossible within the limits to which we are here 
confined to pursue this interesting subject further. 

Mr. Arago early made the discovery that the light which comes to us from 
the atmosphere is polarized. Observations made in the vertical plane passing 
through the sun show sensible polarization in that plane up to about 150° from 
the luminary — a point which can only be observed, therefore, when the sun is 
low. The polarization at this point becomes zero, and it is hence known as 
Arago's vieutral point. Below this point down to the horizon, polarization is 
found in a horizontal plane. Mr. Babinet discovered a second neutral point 17° 
above the sun, and Dr. Brews-ter a third, 8^ 30' below. Neither of these is 
easy of observation, in consequence of the proximity of the sun himself and his 
great light. Between them the light is probably polarized horizontally; but the 
fact, for the reason just mentioned, has not been verified. The plane of polar- 
ization in the vertical between the neutral points of Ai-ago and Babinet is easily 
accounted for by ascribing the polarization itself to direct reflection of the sun's 
rays from the molecules of the atmosphere. The polarization in a horizontal plane 
below Arago's point is a less simple phenomenon. It is believed, however, to 
be occasioned by rays which have undergone two reflections from the atmos- 
pheric molecules. Of the rays of this class those which will come most efiPectively 
to the eye of the observer will be such as are reflected in the lower parts of the 
atmosphere in planes nearly parallel to the horizon. These will, of course, be 
polarized in planes nearly horizontal, and if in force sufficient to overcome the 
light polarized vertically, will produce a resultant in their own direction. At 
an altitude at which the two opposite polarizations balance each other, vv'ill be 
found a neutral point, and this is the point of Arago. 

Regarding atmospheric reflection of the sun's rays as the cause of atmospheric 
polarization, it Avill follow that every plane passing through the sun (in the 
superior portions of the atmosphere at least) must be a plane of polarization. 
This will therefore be true of the hour-circle or meridian in which the sun 
happens at any time to be. And as all hour-circles pass through the pole of the 
heavens, it results that a delicate polariscope, directed toward the pole, may 
follow the horary motion of this plane. Such a polariscope, furnished with a 
dial and index,' becomes a chronometer. This is the principle of an elegant 
little instrument invented by Wheatstone, called the polar clock. When accu- 
rately adjusted, it will indicate, in the hands of a practiced observer, the 
apparent solar time within a very feAv minutes. It will operate even when the 
sky is overcast with clouds, provided there be an unobscured spot at the pole, 
through which the blue sky may be seen. 

In the foregoing very succinct outline of the history of optical discovery^ the 
object kept in view has been to present simply facts, without entering into any 
discussion of the physical causes to which they are to be attributed. It is now 
proposed to consider in what manner these facts may be most satisfactorily 
explained. 

THEORIES OF LIGHT. 

Two theories have been maintained in regard to the nature of light, either of 
which is supported by the authority of very illustrious names. According to 
the first of these, light is a material emanation thrown off by the luminous body, 
and its particles constantly traverse and fill the entire illuminated space, so long 
as the source continues unexhausted. According to the second, there is no 
transfer of matter from the source of light to the surrounding region, but there 
is a transfer o^ force through the medium of an elastic fluid which fills all space, 
and whose molecules in contact with the luminous body, being disturbed by that 
body, transmit the disturbance to those more remote, by means of undulations 



j^44 MATEKIAL THEOEY OF LIGHT. 

wliicli succeed each other tminterruptedly until tlie cause which produced them 
ceases to act. The first of these two hypotheses seems to have been of very 
early origin. It received the sanction of Newton, and was made by him the 
basis of his reasonings in regard to optical phenomena. It is hence commonly 
called the Newtonian theory. Until an advanced period in the present century 
it may be said to have been the generally accepted theory. Laplace, in his 
great work on celestial mechanics, has founded all his investigations in regard 
to aberration and astronomical refraction upon it. 

Yet it must be admitted by its advocates, if there remain any who adhere to 
it still, that it presents, even beforQ we follow it into its applications to the ex- 
planation of the phenomena v/c have described, many serious difBculties. In 
ihe first place, if light consist of material particles, these particles must be of 
inconceivable minuteness, or their living force would be sufficient to destroy 
every structure, no matter how solid or how tenacious it might be, v/hich they 
should encounter in their flight. A single grain of matter, moving with the 
velocity of light, would have a quantity of motion equal to that of a cannon ball 
of 100 pounds weight, moving with the velocity of 1,500 feet per second. But 
since destructive power is proportioned, not to the quantity of motion, but to 
the living force, which varies as the square of the velocity, a single grain of 
matter moving with the velocity of light v/ould have a destructive poAver equal 
to that of a mass of 3,350 tons moving with the velocity of 1,500 feet. If light 
be material, therefore, its particles must be many millions of times less in 
weight than a single grain. "We have no instruments sufficiently delicate to 
detect a v/eight so minute. Still it would be possible, by optical arrangements, 
to concentrate many millions of particles upon a single point. Attcmjits have 
been made to test the question by the use of such expedients. Dr. Priestley, in 
his History of Light and Colors, describes an experiment in which he directed 
the light of the sun, by means of a concave mirror having foiir square feet of 
surface, upon a balance of exceeding delicacy, without producing any sensible 
impression. The conclusion is expressed in his own words, as follows : " Now 
the light in the above experiment was collected from a surface of four square 
feet, which, reflecting only about half what falls on it, the quantity of matter 
contained in the rays of the sun incident upon a square foot and a half of sur- 
face in one second of time, ought to be no more than the twelve hundred millionth 
part of a grain." 

Dr. Priestley does not consider that, in such an experiment, it is the moment, 
and not the weight, of the particles of light that would be measured. The 
amount of inertia in any balance, however delicate, is sufficient to render it an 
instrument not very well adapted to the purpose in view. The presence of the 
air is also a disadvantage, both on account of its own resistance to motion and 
on account of the currents created by the heat which attends the direction of 
the solar focus upon any solid. The following experiment by Mr. Bennet avoids 
these objections. This brief account is taken from Professor Lloyd's Essay 
on the IJndulatory Theory, edition of 1857. " A slender straw was suspended 
horizontally by means of a single fibre of the spider's thread. To one end of 
this delicately suspended lever was attached a small piece of white paper, and 
the Avhole was enclosed within a glass vessel from which the air was withdrawn 
by the air-pump. The sun's rays were then concentrated by means of a large 
lens, and suffered to fall upon the paper, but without any perceptible cfiect." 
These results are negative, it is true, but it must be admitted that they are such 
as to render the truth of the material theory of light in the highest degree 
improbable. 

Another difficulty in the way of this 'theory is found in the uniformity of 
velocity with wliich light reaches us from distances all but infinitely unequal, 
and from luminous bodies of every magnitude. This equality of velocity in the 
propagation of the light of the stars is evinced in the universality of the law of 



THEORY OF EMISSION — DIFFICULTIES. 145 

aberration. But it might be inferred from the equality of the refraction ■whicli 
all lig'bt, whether natural or artilicial, undergoes in passing from medium to 
medium. Now, if light be material, it must be regarded as subject, like all other 
projectiles, to retardation by the gravitating power of the body from which it is 
emitted. And, moreover, it is a phenomenon inconceivable that so perpetual a 
shower of projectiles, so infinite in number, should all be thrown with the same 
initial velocity, and that this initial velocity should be the same for every source. 
The only hypothesis upon which it is ])ossible to meet this last objection is to 
assume, according to a suggestion of Jlr. Arago, that the eye is insensible to 
luminous impressions, except for a certain definite velocity of the Inminiferous 
particles, or for that narrow range of variation of velocity, within which arc 
embraced the velocities which we attribute to the different colors in refracting 
media. 

In regard to the retardation of the particles by the attracting power of the 
luminous body itself, it may be observed that, with our ])resent means of 
measurement, this would not be appreciable for distances so small as that which 
separates ns from the sun, or even for distances no greater than the extreme 
dimensions of the solar system ; at least without supposing an enormous increase 
in ,thc mass of the luminous body beyond that of any aggregated form of matter 
known to us. An attracting body can destroy, in a projectile thrown from it, 
no greater an amount of velocity than it can impart to a material mass falling 
toward it. And this limit is reached if we supjiose the falling body to commence 
its motion at an infinite distance. Now, the velocity acquired by a body falling 
from an infinite distance to the sun's surface, under the influence of solar at- 
traction, would be less than four hundred miles (391 miles) per second; and of 
tliis velocity about fourteen-fifteenlhs (365.1 miles) would be acquired after 
passing the limit of the earth's orbit. But the body would be twenty-seven 
and a half days in reaching the sun after passing this limit, while light is only 
eight minutes and thirteen -seconds in traversing the same immense space. The 
effect of an accelerating or retarding force being as its time of action, and, in 
this case, the two times to be compared being in the ratio of about one to four 
hundred and eighty, it may easily be shown that the retardation of light by 
lolar attraction, during its transit from the sun to the earth, could not be so 
much as a mile per second in its velocity. 

But the light of stars coming from distances so vast as to require years, and 
many years, to reach us, must undergo such retardation as to render aberra- 
tion a phenomenon exceedingly variable, unless we admit Mr. Arago's assump- 
tion just mentioned in regard to the sensibility of the retina. Moreover, iu 
' cases in which the rays, in their long travel, had become reduced to velocities 
coimaratively moderate, the gravitating power of heavy bodies near Avhich they 
mi^t pass, ought to produce a sensible deflection of their course, and. modify, in 
a remarkable manner, the phenomena of occultations. Nothing of this kind is 
observed. It is here assumed that there* mny be suns much more massive tlian ours. 

Laplace has examined the question, what ought to be the mass of a luminous 
body, in order that its gravitating power may be great enough to destroy the 
velocity of the particles of light entirely, at some distance less than infinite — 
the initial velocity being assumed to be that which observation has determined 
in the sunlight as it reaches us. The expression for the velocity acquired in 
falling i'vom an infinite distance to the sun's surface — his mass being assumed 
to be unaltered, is — 

fimgr^ 

V Iv 

in which m is the sun's mass, that of the earth being unity; g is the measure 
of the force of gravity at the earth's surfitce, being the velocity it is capable of 
imparting in one second, or 321 feet; r is the earth's radius, and R the radius 
10 s 



l^Q THEORY OF EMISSION DIFFICULTIES. 

of the sun, botli expressed in feet. If wc put v = 192,700 miles, (reduced to 
feet,) and make m indeterminate, we shall find that the mass must be increased 
860,000,000,000 fold to be capable of creating, and therefore of destroying, a 
velocity equal to that of light. This sujiposes the bulk of the sun to be un- 
altered. But if iilie mass is increased without altering the density we shall 
have — 



V2mgra 



in which x is the radius of the sun under its supposed enlargement; whence — 

_ vR!^ 
rv 'ling 

Replacing the symbols by their values, we find that the sun nuist be enlarged 
to nearly five liundred times his p'csent diameter in order to possess tiie power 
of entirely arresting the progress of light, considered as material, at any distance. 
The surface of such a sun would extend more than seventy millions of miles 
beyond the orbit of Mars. That there may be bodies in the universe so large 
as this is possible, but we may esteem it hardly probable. If there are, and if 
light is material, they may be invisible to us. 

A final objection to the material theory of light is found in the phenomena of 
refraction and reflection. This, though it seems to have been overlooked, is 
really the most serious of all. Wc have seen that the eftect of the immense 
power of solar gravitalsou is insufficient to produce more than an inappreciable 
variation in the velocity of light, during the nearly eight minutes and a quarter 
which is occupied in its passage over the space between us and the sun; and 
yet, ii' the hypothesis we are considering be true, there is a force residing in tlie 
superficial stratum of transparent bodies — a stratum so thin that no attempt has 
ever been made, or can be made, to measure it— which is capable of instantane- 
ously doubling and, in some instances, almost tripling this velocity. Thus 
light which has passed the surface of glass of antimony or chromate of lead 
must, if this theory is true, have its velocity raised, in the instant of passing, 
from 192,700 miles to 674,000 miles per second. In common glass the velocity 
becomes 289,000 rhiles. In ordinary reflection, also, the reflecting force has 
first to destroy the original velocity, and then to impart an equal velocity in 
the opposite direction. This is more easily conceivable than the acceleration 
produced by refraction, as it corresponds with the ordinary phenomena of elas- 
ticity. But refraction, on the theory we are considering, is only explicable om 
the hypothesis of attraction ; and the immensity of an attracting force which is 
capable of accomplishing in so short a time what graxaty is totally unequal to 
in a time greater beyond measure, is totally inconceivable. 

But, if objections of this weighty description to the material theory of light 
did not exist, the impossibility of finding in it any satisfactory explanation of 
the remarkable phenomena which have presented themselves in the later pro- 
gi'ess of optical discovery, would be conclusive against it ; while the opposing 
theory finds in these very phenomena its strongest recommendation to accept- 
ance. It is to that theory, therefore, that attention will be confined in the fol- 
lowing attempt to connect the fiicts which have been detailed with their proba- 
ble causes. To repeat the imperfect explanations which have been founded on 
a hypothesis which is now generally abandoned, would be an luiprofitable waste 
of time and space. 



THEORY OF UNDULATION —VIBRATION. 147 

PAI£T II, 

UNDULATORY THEORY. 

\S I. VIBRATION. 

In order to imderstancl the mode in wliicli undulations are propagated through 
an elastic medium, it is necessary to attend first to the subject of vibration. If 
a body be so held in equilibrium between opposing forces, as that, when dis- 
placed from its position of repose, it is urged to return by a force always pro- 
portional to its distance from that point, then the time occupied in returning, 
supposing it to be left at liberty to obey this impulse, will be the same, what- 
ever may be the magnitude of the displacement. Moreover, if the extent or 
amplitude of the displacement be taken as a radius, and a circle described about 
the point of repose as a centre, the velocity of the body in its returning move- 
ment will be proportional, at every point of its path, to the per- 
pendicular to the path drawn from that point and cut off by the 
circular arc. Thus, if be the point of repose, and CA the 
amplitude of displacement, the force urging the body to return 
being proportional to CA, CF, CH, &c., when the body is at the 
jDoints A, F, and II, then the velocities at these several points will 
^^S 27. |,g proportional to zero at A, to EF at F, and to Gil at H. 
These elementary propositions in physics, which admit of easy demonstration,* 

*The demonstration refeiTed to is the following: Piit CA = «, CII = 3;. Put also t for the 
time from the beginning of movement, v for the velocity, and jj- for the force drawing the body 
toward C at the distance unity. Then if dx he the small sjiace described in the small time 
dt, vdt= — dx; dx being negative because, when v is increasing, it diminishes x. 

Also, if dv be the small increase of velocity in the time dt, we shall have the force, at the 
distance x, equal to p-x, and p-xdt^dv. Whence, 

tdp = —p-xdx ; and v" = — p-x^ -j- C. 

But when t' = 0, x = a: consequently, 

v"^p-(a- — Z-) ; or, v^=pVa- — x- = (in the figure) ^^(JA- — CH-=;j.GH. 

Therefore v is proportional to GH. Also, the time of vibration is constant, irrespective of 
the value of a. For, substituting in the first ec^uation the value of v just found, 

pVa- — x-.dt = — d'x; or, dt ^= — . , 

pVa^ — x'^ 

1 -'a; 
This gives t= — -sin - +C. 
p a 




When < = 0, z^a: whence i = - 1 90° — sin _ ] =_ cos -. 

p^ a) p a 



Now, taking t' and t" for two particular values of <, one at the beginning and the other at 
the end of a complete double vibration, l" — t' will be the duration of the vibration, and will 

be measured by the increase which the arc cos - undergoes during one complete series of 

a 

all the possible values of ~ in diminishing and in increasing order — that is, from z = 4-a to c 
a 

^=-\- a again. Hence, putting T=t" — <'= the duration of a vibration, we have, 

1 2tt 

T^- (277 {m-{-\) — 27rm) = — , which is constant. 

P P 

The symbol a disappears from this expression, showing that the duration of the vibration is 
independent of the amplitude. 
We have here also a proposition essentially the same as that demonstrated bj a different 



]^48 UNDULATORY THEORY OV LIGHT. 

may be assumed as established. When tlio body iu its return arrives at 0, it 
will accordingly be moving with the velocity represented by CD, the radius of 
the circle, and its inertia will carry it forward iu the dircctiou CB. It will now 
be resisted by forces similar iu degree but contrary iu direction to those Avhich 
urged it from A to 0, and its velocity will decrease as it before increased, uutil 
it is brought to rest again at B, when it will once more return. Supposing no 
forces or resistances to be called into action but those embraced in our hypothesis, 
there is no reason why this reciprocating motion should not coutinue indefinitely. 
We have an approximate illustration of the case under considei-ation in au 
ordinary pendulum. "Wlum the pendulum is drawn from the vertical position, 
the component of gi-avity which urges its return is a force very nearly propor- 
tional, at every instant, to its distance from the position of rest. Were its j)ath 
a cycloidal instead of a circular arc, this proportionality would be rigorously 
exact. Its beats are therefore sensibly equal in time, whether it swing through 
twenty degrees or through only one. 

If Ave suppose the pendulum to be so suspended that its vibrations are not of 
necessity restricted to a single plane, we shall be able to conceive, without much 
difficulty, what must happen in another case important to be considered, viz : 
that in which a body, already in a state of vibration, is acted upon by a second 
disturbing force, not directed in the same plane with the first. To simplify the 
•supposition as much as possible, let us imagine that, at the moment when the 
body, in its return from A, is passing the centre C, it receives an impulse in the 
direction D, at right angles to its actual movement, capable of giving it, in- 
stantaneously, the same velocity towards D, which it already has towards B. 
By the law of the composition of forces, it will take the direc- 
^ tion C^I, which is the diagonal of the rectangle formed ujion 
CB, CD ; and its subsequent vibrations will be represented ia 
_ff extent and direction by the line NM. It will be seen that the 
extent of its excursions in the direction AB remains unaltered, 
since the lines MB and AN are parallel; but it performs, at the 
" same time, an equal vibration in the direction DP, since DM 
Fig 2s. j^mi -^p are also parallel. 

Let us suppose, however, that the second impulse takes effect on the body 
not at the point C, of its greatest velocity, but at A, where its motion is null, 
and at the instant when it is about setting out on its return to C. It will 
vibrate, as before, between the parallels NP and MDR ; but it will reach the 
limits of its vibration in this direction when it is at the middle of the vibration 
in the other. At the (md of half a vibration, therefore, it will be found at D 
instead of at C, as in the former case ; at the end of the next l^alf at B ; at the 
end of the third half at P; and at the end of the fourth, or of a complete double 
vibration, at A, the point of starting. Apjjarently, therefore, inider these cir- 
cumstances, the orbit of the body is a circle. We shall see that this is really so. 
In fact, if we represent by r the radius vector of the body, and by 
X and y its co-ordinates to the axes AB and DP, we shall have the 
equation x^ + ]/^^=?-'^. Whence, taking the difiercntial — 





xdx+ydij ^=rdr. (a) 

method, a little further on iu the text, iu regard to the measure of the time elapsed since the 
beginning of the vibration, at any given moment, and in any position of the vibrating body. 

Since t varies as cos~ -, it is obvious that, if a circle be described on the path of the vibra- 

a 
ting body as a diameter, and if an ordinate to the circumference be drawn from the position 
of tlie vibrating body at any moment, the arc of the circle intercepted between the origin and 
this ordinate will be" the measure of the time elapsed since the vibration began. The arc must 
be taken always iu the same constant direction around the circumference, and the ordinate 
must be positive for the advancing and negative for the returning movement. In like man- 
ner, the arc intercepted between two such ordinates, will measure the time intervening between 
the moments when the vibrating body occupied the points from which the ordinates are drawn. 



VIBRATION. ^49 

Now, by the law of velocities above given, if a be put for tlie maximum ve- 
locity, or that which the body has in passing C, and if (p be put for the arc of 
the circle on AB which i,s included between the origin, A, and y, the velocity 
in the direction AB, will be a^mcp ; and that in the direction CD, aco^w. 
Ilcnce, for the differentials of the co-ordinates x and y, we have, putting t for 
the time — 

Jx-= — aa'mcdt; a^nd dy = acof-(fdt. 

But by construction x=^rcos^, and ?/=:?-sin^. 
Substituting these values in ecpation (a) there results — 

— crsin^cos^d'^ + crsin^cos^-cZ/! ^ rdr. 

dr 
Or, ^ = 0. 
dt 

From which it appears that the radius vector is constant and the orbit a circle. 
Also the motion in the circle is uuifbrm. For if dc> be the increment of the 
arc, 

de^^^dsi^ + dy'^. 

And sitbstituting the values of dx and dy, given above, we have, 

da^ = a^sin^^'fZi;^ + a'^co&"<fdl^ = ci^di^. 

A 1 ^^ 
And-,-=t'^a. 

dt 

That is to say, the velocity of the movement in the circle will be uniform, and 
will be equal to the maximum velocity of the plane vibration. 

Hence it follows that if, at the moment when a body, vibrating in a recti- 
linear path, is at the limit of its movement, a second body sets out from the same 
point, in a circle of which the path of the first is a diameter, with a uniform ve- 
locity equal to the maximum velocity of the first, the line which joins tlie two 
will move parallel to itself, and vrill always be perpendicular to the path of the 
plane vibration. 

We hence obtain a convenient measure of the time which has elapsed since 
the beginning of vibration, when the body is at any point, as H, Fig. 27, of its 
path. For, taking as the unit of time the duration of a complete double vibra- 
tion, and employing the ordinary symbol, 2-, to denote the circumference of a 
circle whose radius is 1, 2-t may express the entire space passed over by a body 
making its revolutions in such a circle isochrouously with the movements of the 
vibrating body, and t (whether its value be integral or fractional) will then de- 
note at once the number of vibrations which have taken place and the number 
of units of time which have elapsed since the beginning. Assuming the starting 
point to be at the commencement of a double vibration, every integral value of i 
will denote a return to the original position, and every fractional excess will de- 
note a corresponding progress in a new vibration. Thus if the body be at II, 
the fractional part of 2-t will be the arc AG, and this will have the same ratio 
to the entire circle which the time of describing the portion of jjath, AH, has 
to the total time of double vibration. 

Let us now suppose that the second impulse (still normal to the first) is not 
equal to the first, but greater or smaller; and that tlie vibration which it would 
independently produce has an amplitude (measured from the centre) represented 
by a'. The figure of the orbit will, in this case, be an ellipse, with the greater 
or lesser axis in the direction of the original vibration, according as. a is greater 
or less than a'. The velocities in the direction of a will still, as before, be 
represented by asin2-rt, while those in the direction of a' will be represented 
by a'cos2-t; and these expressions will also stand- for the ordinates of the 
orbit, y aud x. 2-t here takes the place of the former symbol, f . 



150 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

Let us now sup])Osc that the second irapnlse, tliongli still normal to the first, 
is not imparted either at the limit or in the middle of its path, but at a point 
corresponding to 2-t, where t may have any value whatsoever. The velocity 
of the body at the time t will bo aii\n2-t. The velocity produced by the 
seoond impulse necessarily commences with the maximum: — , that is, with the 

velocity belonging to the time t='y--^ '^tl hence is «'.sin--, or tt'.siuDOO. 

Then the difference of the two, in respect to pJiasc — that is, to the degree of 
their advancement in their respective vibrations — will be 2-;!— 90*^, or 90^ — 2-;;; 
which, for convenience, put equal to 0. After a further time V, the tv*'o veloc- 
ities will be — 

1. a. ^ai[2-t + 2-t') = a. sin(90O-l-(? + 2-^') = «- cos(2-^'_l-fl)=2/. 

2. a'. sin(90O + 2-i!') = a'.cos2-i;' = a;. 

Expanding y, and eliminating 2-t', there results the equation, 

a'hf+a'^x^—2aa'xy.(^o^0 = a'^a'hm^0. [1.] 

This is the general equation of the ellipse referred to its centi-e. It follows, 
thereibre, that any two impulses, applied in directions at right angles to each 
other to a body susceptible of vibration, will cause the body to describe an ellip- 
tical orbit, whatever be the interval between the impulses. 

If, however, we suppose the second impulse to be in the direction of the orig- 
inal vibration, and not at right angles to it; and, as before, that there is a differ- 
ence of time corresponding to the arc 0, then the body will be impelled by two 
conspiring or conflicting forces, capable of producing the simultaneous velocities, 
a mi(f, anda'sin(9? + y). 

Let us put [a+a'ci^^Of+{a'iilnOf=^A^. 

^ ia + a'cmOf (a'amOf 2 , • 2 

Or, ^^ , ,, -— H- ^ -. „^- = 1 = cos^w + sm^w. 

A^ A^ 

the symbol w denoting a determinate angle. Then, 

a + a'cos^ = Acosw; and a' sin^ = Asinw. 

Let the first of these equations be multiplied by sin^?, and the second by 
COS9P : their sum, added member for member, will be — 

a sin^-fa' sin^" costf + a' cos^ siu(9 = A sin^ cosw + A COS55 sinw. 

Or, a siu^ + a' sin(9? + tf)=A ^\n{f + u>). [2.] 

The first member of this equation is the expression for the velocity which the 
body will possess at any time answering to (p, after the commencement of the 
vibration a, which is least advanced in phase, and the second member shows 
that this velocity is that which would exist in the body at the same time, had it 
been acted on by one impulse only, capable of imparting the velocity A, and 
applied at a moment earlier than a by the time corresponding to u>, and later 
than a', by the time corresponding to O—m. 

The value of the velocity A, in terms of the original velocities a and a', may 
be obtained by developing the assumed equation above, when it takes the form, 

A? = a^ + a'^- + 2aa'co%0; or, A = -l- yf d^+a''^+2aa'co'£,0. [3.[ 

This expression is remarkable, as being the value of the diagonal of a par- 
allelogram, of which the sides are a and a', and the 
angle of their inclination zzi 0. In the figure annexed, 
let AB = DG = a, and AD = BO = a'. Also let BOD 
= ADE^^. AE being drawn perpendicular to OD 
produced, we have DE = a'cos6', and AE=a'sin/y. 
Then, 




UNDULATION. 151 

AC2=EC=^+AE2=(DC + EDf+AE2=(a + a'cos^)2+(a'sm^)2=A2. 
Also, AE=a'sintf=A.smACD. And CE=a+«'cos<?=A.cosACD. 

Therefore, ACD3=w, or tlie angle between the diagonal and the side denoting 
the force corresponding to the component which is least advanced in phase, is the 
measure of the interval of time between that component and the resultant, or the 
time earlier than a, at which A must be applied in order to produce alone pre- 
cisely the same succession of vibrations in phase and in force which is produced 
by the combined action of a and a' . 

If the second impulse be oblique to the first, it may be decomposed into two 
components, one acting in the direction of a, and the other at right angles to a. 
The effects of these may be successively estimated according to the principles 
already illustrated. And the same principles may be applied to the d(^t(>rmina- 
tion of the resultant of any number of impulses, acting in all possible directions. 
The important conclusion is that, though the form of the path and the ampli- 
tude of the oscillations of the body may be altered, yet they are, in all cases, 
capable of determination, and the time of the vibration will be invariable. 

§11. UNDULATION. 

Hitherto we have supposed that the vibrating body imparts none of its motion 
to surrounding bodies. This is a case which can riever be experimentally real- 
ized, and, if it could, it is not the case which concerns us af present. We wish 
to show the connexion between vibration and undulation, and, to this end, we 
must suppose the body in vibration to be immersed in an elastic fluid, whose 
particles are set in motion by it. Such a fluid is the atmosphere ; find it is mat- 
ter of common knowledge that sound is an effect of undulations produced in the 
air by vibrating bodies. It is also well known that sound does not attend all 
movements in the air, not even all movements of vibration. A certain rapidity 
is required, for a reason which will presently appear. 

An elastic fluid may be described as one whose particles tend to recede from 
each other, or have the same mechanical relations as if they possessed the 
property of mutual repulsion. The distances between the particles, in the case 
of such elastic fluids as actually exist, are probably very g)-eat compared with 
the magnitude of the particles themselves. When the fluid is at rest, each par- 
ticle is held in equilibrium by the repulsions of its U'cighbors. If a slow move- 
ment be excited among these parti-cles, they will not, to any material degree, 
alter their distances from each other; but, if any one particle, or any stratum of 
particles, be driven toward those adjacent, with such suddenness that the inertia 
of the latter is brought sensibly into play, then the distances will be momenta- 
rily diminished, or there will occur a local compression of the fluid at that place. 
This impulse, it is evident, must come from some body foi-eign to the fluid, for 
by the definition it must appear that the fluid is incapai)le of unequally com- 
pressing itself. Suppose, then, the compressiiig body, after making its sudden 
advance, to stop with equal suddenness. The repelling force between the first 
and second strata will exceed that between the second and third; but the first 
stratum cannot recede on account of the obstacle. The second, therefore, will 
advance, diminishing its distance from the third, and so calling a greater repul- 
sive force into activity between those strata also. The third will then advance, 
then the fourth, then the fifth, and so on. It thus appears that the movement 
originally communicated to the fii'st stratum will pass from stratum to stratum 
through the whole fluid. Each stratum, moreover, will come to a state of per- 
manent rest the instant the next has taken up the movement. This is in accord- 
ance with the well known law of impact of equal elastic bodies. There is, 
tberefore, no vibration in this case. But the progress of the movement is uni- 
form throughout the medium, and the velocity of transmission is the same, (or 



;152 UNDULATORY TIIEOUY OF LIGHT. 

sensibly so,) wlictlicr the molecular moveiueut be large or Hinall. This last fact 
we leani experimentally, thougli it may be deduced from considerations entirely 
theoretical, as will presently be shown. 

A molecular movement, like what lias just been diiscribed, may b(! called a 
trvmor. A succession of tremor,^, swelling and sinking in magnitude, each so 
excessively brief that their successive differences arc comparatively null, consti- 
tutes an ^mdulatlon. ksuch a succession of tremors must bo produced in the air 
by a vibrating sonorovis body. Take, for instance, one of the steel springs of a 
musical box. It traverses, in its vibration, but a very minute portion of spac*e, 
and its duration occupies an equally minute portion of lime. But as, at the end 
of its path, its velocity is, for an instant, zero, while, in the middle, it is very 
great, we know, from the general jn-inciples laid down above, that, at interme- 
diate points, it must have as many intermediate values as it is possible to imagine 
points, and we are abb;, moreover, to give a delinite mathera;itical expression to 
those values. These various velocities, beginning and ending with zero, and 
passing through an intermediate maximum, will be successively imparted to the 
stratum of particles of air which is in conta,ct with the spring. From this stra- 
tum they will be transferred to the second, from the second to the third, and 
so on. 

And here, to the clear understanding of this subject, it is necessary to take 
into consideration a very imjjortant fact, viz., that, how(;ver rapid may bo the 
motion of the spring, the trctnors which th(i air takes up from it advance with a 
velocity vastly greater. Let us suppose, for in^^tance, that the spi'ing makes a 
thousand simple vibrations, or five hundred double vibrations, in a second, which 
is somewhat below the number corresponding to th(! tenor C. and that the 
amplitude of each vibration, measured between the cxtremi! limits of its excur- 
sions iu both directions from the position of equilibrium, is one twentieth of an 
inch. In one second after beginning to vibrate it will have described only fifty 
inches, but in the mean time the tremor generated by its first movement will 
have passed over eleven hundred and thirty feet. In this case, accordingly, the 
tremor will have more than two hundred and seventy tim(!S the mean velocity 
of the vibration. Thus, while the spring is advancing from its first zero of 
velocity to its maximum, a distance of one-fortieth of an inch, the first .and 
feeblest tremor which it excited will have; reached a point nearly seven inches 
in advance, of it, and the stratum next befori! it wdl be receiving the most ener- 
getic tremor which it is capable of im])arting. When it reaches the second 
zero the first tremor will be fourteen inches in advance, the middle or maximum 
will be s(!ven inches in advance, and the stratum next it will have just received 
a minimum impulse corresponding to the first. Were the spring to remain in 
this position, the undulation would pass on, leaving the air in its vicinity at rest. 
But as it instantly commences its return, it withdraws from the stratum in con- 
tact with it the support it afforded against the repulsive forces of the more ad- 
vanced particles; and accordingly that stratum follows the spring, producing a 
rarefaction, or increase of distance, between the first and second. The repellent 
foi'ces between the first and second strata will thus be diminished, so that those 
between the second and third will predominate. The second stratum will con- 
sequently follow the first, and in like manner each successive stratum throughout 
the fluid will successively move backward toward the one before it; or a tremor 
will affect every stratum of particles, as in the case before considered, but will 
differ froni that in this ])nrticular, viz : that, in the latter case, the particles arc 
moving in one direr/ ion, while the tremor is advancing iu the contrary direction, 
whereas in the case W(; first considered the movement of the particles is the 
scune in direction with that of the progress of the tremor. 

It is easily seen that the whole series of tremors produced by the return 
vibration will generate an undulation equal m length to the foimer, and differing 
from it only iu the direction of mocemcnt of the particles. This is called the 



UNDULATION. I53 

wave Ijij rarefaction ; tlie former, tlic wave hy condcnsatirm. Tin; two arr; com- 
plementary to each other, and Loth arc to be understood as included when iu 
optics wc speak of "an undulation." 

A visible illustration of the relation between vibration and undulation, which 
we have been endeavoring, in what precedes, to explain, may serve a us(;fLil 
purpose in facilitating the formation of correct conceptions. Let AB represent 




Ficc 31. 



the rano-e of movement of a vibrating body, C being the centre of force and 
the position of equilibrium. Upon AB describe the circle ADBE. Divide 
the semi-circumference A D B into any convenient number of equal parts. 
Bay ei'^'lit, and from the points of division drop perpendiculars upon AB. Take 
AA' equal to the entire length of a Avave, and bisect it at B'. Divide AB' 
and B'A' each into eight equal parts. From the points so found draw per- 
pendiculars, upward on B'A', and downward on AB'. Cut off these perpen- 
diculars to equality Avith those before drawn in the circle, in reversed order for 
A'B', and in the same order for AB', and through their extremities, as thus 
determined, draw the curve AE'B'D'A'. The ordinates to this curve will 
represent the velocities of the molecular movements which will bo in activity 
alon^'- the line AB'A', at the end of one complete double vibration of the excit- 
ing body in AB. 

The point iu which this illustration fails t') convey a correct iuipression is in 
the immense exa^-geration of the extent of the range AB, of the vibrating 
body, as compared with AA', the length of the undulation. In sonorous 
undulations this latter usually exceeds AB some hundreds of times. Of course, 
no fi'^^ure which could be introduced here could preserve these proportions 
without making AB imperceptible. 

Let us now return for a momeuf to the assumption, which, as w(; have said, 
experiment, in the case of sound, coniirms, that the velocity of wave propaga- 
tion will be uniform. This assumption, antecedently to any experiment on the 
subject, mi^'ht be justified by the consideration that each successi%'c molecule, 
or stratum of molecules, commences its motion under precisely the same cir- 
cumstances as those of the molecules before it; taken along with t!ie ascertained 
fact that the forces of recoil of elastic bodies in general are proportional to the 
extent of disturbance. There is no circumstance Avhich could niaice the time 
occupii;d by one stratum of panicles in transmitting the movement to the next, 
longer or shorter than that similarly occupied by any other ; unless it should 
be tiie decreasing amplitude of the molecular excursions^ as, in the expanding 
wave, the motion is divided atnong a greater number of particles; and this cir- 
cumstance, under the observed law of elastic force just stated, caji have no effect 
upon the time of completing the oscillation. 

But the proposition admits of a more direct and not a difficult jjroof. If AB 

CDEF be a tube containing an elastic fluid — ^say air — open at CD, but with a 

, ^, movable piston at AF closing the tube completely; 

^A el Jf o _- ^^^^ j^-^ -j^ .^ ^^.^^ minute portion of time, t, this piston 

I be advanced from AF to A'F', proj)agating a tn^mor 

Avhich just reaches BE when AF reaches A'F', then, 



JB'F' B b' Ji for the instant, the fluid between A'F' and BE will 
Fig- 32. }je more dense than before, in the same ratio as its 

volume is less, or (the diameter of the tube being constant^ iu the ratio of AB 



X 




x' 




x' 


e 


x' 


r 


— 


■'x' 



154 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

to A'B. Let the natural elasticity of the air be cnllcd c. By this natural 
elasticity we mean that force with Avliich the air would tend t-o expand into a 
vacuum, or crush in the sides of a vessel from the interior of which the air has 
been removed. It is measured by the weight upon a square inch, of the column 
of mercury required to balance it, and tiiis is compared with g-ravity by con- 
sidering that it would move a body of a unit in bulk and density (say a cubic 
inch of water) as much faster than gravity alone, as it is greater than the Aveight 
of such a unit. If, then, g represent the velocity which gravity can impart in 
a second, if h be put for the height of the barometric column, and if D stand 
for the density of the mercury in the column, 

e—gJiD. 

Emidoyiug e' to denote the increased elasticity of the compressed air between 
AT' and BE, and putting AB=;a;, A'Bizz.t', and AA'z:=a;", we have 

e' = e— : e — 

X 

This difference, e' — e, is the effective force by which BE is acted upon ; for 
the space between BE and CD is filled with uncompressed air, which opposes 
the movement of BE by the force e, while the compressed air between A'E' 
and BE urges it with the force c. Now, the velocity of movement imparted to 
a body by a given force i'^ dejoendent not on the time and force only, but also 
on the mass to be moved. And it will evidently make no difft^rence in the 
rapidity of propagation of movement, whethei- — mass remaining tlii- same — we 
suppose BE to be the stratum of molecules which is nearest to AF, or whether 
we suppose it to be the middle stratum of a number filling the space half way 
between it and AF on the one hand, and CD on the other. In either case 
there will always be the same mass [m) which will be proportional to the length 
of the column x, and its density, which we may represent by d : — or vi will 
always be as xxd. Now the velocity v. which any force (as e' — e) will gene- 
rate in the miuute time t in this mass, will be 

e'-e - 

m 

or, substituting the values of e' — e and ?n, 

ex"t 

v= . 

. XX a 

And the velocity of wave-propagation (which may be denoted by V) multi- 
plied into the time t, will give x, the distance the tremor has advanced in that 
time; or x^iNt. Moreover, since x" is the distance moved by the molecules 
in the time t, it must have the same ratio to x, or to x', (for the di.fference is so 
slight as not sensibly to affect the ratio) that v has to V. 

XT ^' ^" 

Hence, — = — . 



V x' 



Substituting these values, we have 



''•==/v'r '"■•^"=^^""'^^'-^',2 



-V^- [^- 



But c and d are constants. Ilence the velocity of the wave is uuiioim. ' 
In this demonstration it has been tacitly assumed that the expansive force of 
a confined body of elastic fluid is inversely ])roportional to its bulk. This is 
called the law of Mariotte; and it is true if the temperature of the finid, when 



UNDULATION — DISPERSION. 155 

in a state of dilatation, is the same as Avlien it is compressetT. But compression 
develo])e3 heat, and the expansive force increases directly as the temperature. 
On this account it is necessary to introduce into the expression for tlie value of 
V another coiistant, which is the quotient which arises from dividing the capacity 
of air for heat when it is expanded under a constant pressure, by its capacity 
when its pressure is raised under a constant volume. These capacities being 
represented by c' and c, the velocity becomes 

in Avhich all the factors are still constant, and the velocity is uniform. 

It will be further observed that the demonstration is independent- of the am- 
plitude of the vibration, and also of the length of the wave. The distance AA' 
has no necessary relation to either the one or the other of those dimensions. 
The waves will be longer as the ti/ne occupied in a vibration is greater, and 
shorter as the time is less ; but this will be onl}^ because, in the first case, a 
larger number of tremors by condensation occur, before the tremors by rarefac- 
tion commence, than in the second. These tremors, in longer and sliorter waves, 
are arranged in larger or smaller groups, but every tremor, of whichever species, 
advances with the same velocity. 

Observation proves that in sonorous waves this theoretic iulluencc is true. 
In the range of musical tones, the waves corresponding to the deepest notes are 
two or three hundred times longer than those belonging to the highest ; yet at 
any distance at which music is audible all the notes of a melody come to the 
car without the slightest perceptible disturbance of their order. 

As we shall presently have to apply the undulatory theory to the explana- 
tion of optical phenomena, this seems to be the proper place to anticipate au 
objection which has been made to such an application of it, founded upon this 
presumed constancy of velocity of propagation for waves of all lengths. The 
dispersion of light by refraction, or the separation of the elementary components 
of light by the prism, must, upon any theory, be regarded as irrefutable evi- 
dence that the velocities of these components are unequal.* If the undulatory 
theory be the true one, it is demonstrable that the undulations of the more re- 
frangible rays are shorter than those of the less refrangible; and it is also neces- 
sary, on that theory, to admit that in point of fact the A-eiocitics of the same 
rays are less. This fact so directly conflicts with the proposition just now 
demonstrated, that for a long time it was regarded, and by some continues still 
to be regarded, as au almost insuperable objection to the wave theory of light. 
If we refer once more, however, to the demonstration, we shall see that it 
involves one assumption which is not strictly true — the assumption tli.'it AA' is 
too insignificant a quantity to be regarded when subtracted from AB, and in 
therefore making AB=A'B. In the case of acoustic waves this assumption 
is admissible, and observation proves that it introduces no sensible error; but 
if the wave theory of light be the true one, the undulations themselves must be 
excessively minute; so that it is not only quite possible, but even probable, that 
the amplitude of the molecular excursions may have a very sensible ratio to the 
undulation length. Observe, however, that the admission of this supposition 
does not draw after it the consequence that the velocity of wave propagation 
must, as a necessity, vary with the varying lengths of the waves; it only viti- 
ates our previous demonsti'ation that this velocity is constant for waves of all 
lengths. The same consiaucy may continue to exist, but we must establish the 
truth, if it is one, by diflercnt methods of proof. It is even possible that it may 
exist under certain circumstances — that is, in certain media, and not in others. 
This last is the conclusion which was reached by Mr. Cauchy after an examina- 

* Tliis must at least be true after refraction if uot befure. 



i;)6 UXDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

tion of tlio question in its most general form. If we put A for the wave length 
and T for the time of vibration, and assume — 

2- 2;r 

X T 

tlie n>latiou between tliesc quantities is iinnid by liim to be expressed by the 
formula — 

in •wliicli the constants fii, a2. (I3, &c., arc the same for all rays in the same 
medium, but ditfer for different media. 

Now the velocity of every uniform movement is expressed by dividing the 
spaci' p;!ssed over in any given time by the time of passing, and assuming a 
Avave length for the space, and V for the velocity — 

2- 
V ^= - = 5- ^= T • Ilencc, kzzzY' «in<-l /c" r:^ Vr •>, 

and, by substitution, 

Y^=ai + a-Jc^ + ojc^ + &:c. 

The velocity in the same medium is therefore a function of the length of the 
Travc. But if, in any medium, the coefficients of the terms beyond the iirst are 
insensible, the equation will become \'^::izai, or the velocity will be constant for 
all the rays. This he supposes to be true in a vacuum and in media which, 
like the air, do not sensibly disperse the light. " 

13y reverting the first series it becomes — 

wliich is convergent like the first, and in which all the terms after the first three 
may be neglected. 

Now, as ^^^^^r> if the velocity in vacuo be put equal to unity, we shall have, 

by substitution and reduction, 

TTi^^/^-^^Ai + Aos-' + A-.r. *■ 

V 

in which ,a is put for the index of refraction. This index is therefore a function 
of the time of vibration in vacuo, which timi^ is necessarily unaltered by refrac- 
tion ; since the period in the second medium is determined by the period of the 
impulses, which impulses are the vibrations in the first. But the time of vibra- 
tion in vacuo is inversely as the length of the wave. Ilenoe, if we determine 
by observation three wave lengths in vacuo, and three corres})onding indexes of 
refraction, we shall have the data for determining the three unknown constants, 
A], Aa, and A3. For all other wave lengths the indexes may then be computed. 

Tlies(^ theoretic conclusions can only be thoroughly tested by comparing the 
values deduced from the formula with the results of observation upon media of 
high dispersivt! powers. A very elaborate series of such comparisons was made 
by Prof. Baden Powell, which exhibits a general agreement between the com- 
puted and observed values quite within the limits of the probable errors of ob- 
servation. We are therefore justified in saying that the different velocities of 
propagation of luminous undulations of difierent lengths no longer constitute a 
serious objection to the undulatory theory. 

It will now be easily seen that so long as the movements of the vibrating 



UNDULATION —PRINCIPLE OF IIUYGIIENS. 157 

body continue, undulations will continue to flow ofiffrom'it tlirougli the air; but 
that ihc moment they cease, the uiidiihitions will cease also. Also that during 
the existence of any undulation there are actually and simultaneously existing^ 
somewhere in its length, all the various velocities, positive and negative, which 
belong successively, and one at a time, to the vihrating body. Also that, as tbc 
])rogress of the undulation is uniform, its fractional parts are proportional in 
length to the times of performing ihem; and finally that the molecular velocity 
at any point may be represented by observing to what fractional part of a avIioIc 
undulation that point corresponds, and taking the sine of the same fraction of 
an entire circle multiplied by the maximum velocity. 

It must not be understood, because, in what has been said, mention has only 
been made of tremors in the direction of the original vibration, that therefore 
undulations are confmed to that direction. It is impossible to disturb the equi- 
librium of the molecules of an elastic fluid, at any point or in any direction 
whatcv(!r, without disturbing that of all the adjacent molecules, and giving rise 
to tr(!mors in all directions. At a distance from the vibrating body which is 
considerable compared with the size of tin; body, therefore, the front of the 
wave will be sensibly spherical, and when the body is small it may be regarded 
as strict-ly so. 

It is furthermore manifest that the molecular movements need not be, as wo 
have hitherto supposed them, linear, nor directed to and from the ct'utre of the 
wave. As they may be derived, from any of the forms of vibration which 
have been described, they may be circular or elliptical ; and they may be 
performed in the tangent plane of the wave itself, instead along its radius. 
In the ease of circular movements performed around the radius as an axis, 
an undulation will then consist of a chain of particles occupying positions 
less and less advanced, in the direction of progress, in Hieir respective circles, 
until the last differs from the first by 3G0°. At any instant, therefore, the par- 
ticles in such undulations, or series of undulations, will present the exact counter- 
part, direct or reversed, of the thread of a screw. 

At a very great distance from the centre of disturbance the curved front of 
the v/ave will become sensibly plane. If a solid obstruction be ])laced in the 
way of such a plane wave, having in it a small aperture through which a minute 
elementary portii;u of the movement may be propagated, while all the remain- 
ing part is ari'estcd, then this aperture will become the centre of a new spherical 
wave on the other side of the obstruction. If the solid be perforated by a great 
number of apertures, each of these will generate its own independent wave; 
and all these waves, as, in their progress, they encounter each other and become 
blended, will ultimately reproduce anew the plane wave from which they origi- 
nated. 13y supposing th(! number of these apertures infinitely great, and tlic 
spaces between them infinitely small, we shall arrive at the conclusion that a plane 
ivave is equivalent to an infinite, number of spherical waves, whose centres are 
infinitely near to each other in that plane, and of Avhich the plane wave is the 
resultant; so that if, at any time, we intercept any number of these component 
waves, either such as are contiguous to each other, or such as are separated by 
determinate intervals, the consequences of the proceeding may be calculated a 
jyriori by finding the resultant of those whicji remain unobstructed. This princi- 
ple, which is of the highest importance to the physical theory of undulation as 
applied to optics, was first laid down by Iluyghens. Wc shall presently see 
how it was applied by him to explain the phenomena of the reflection and re- 
fraction of light. 

% 3. EEFLECTION AND HE FRACTION. 

If light is to be regarded as an effect of undulation, the elastic fluid in 
which its undulations are propagated must be inconceivably more rare than the 
air. This fluid must be supposed not only to fill all sjjace, but also to occupy 



158 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

all the int(!rvals which separate the particles of ponderable bodies ; as well of 
those which are opaque as of those which are transparent. It is furthermore 
necessary to suppose that within these bodies it is possessed of a density or of 
an elasticity different from that which belongs to it in free space ; or that the 
molecules of the bodies themselves, in some manner, retard its movements 
among them. Assuming for the present the first of these suppositions to be 
the true one, it will follow that when a luminous wave encounters the surface of 
a ponderable medium, its velocity of progress must undergo a change. The 
nature of the change may be best understood by referring once more to the laws 
which govern the impact of elastic solids. If a non-elastic ball impinge upon 
another equal to it at rest in the line which joins their centres, it will divide 
with the latter its motion, and the two will go on together with half the origi- 
nal velocity of the first. But if the balls are elastic they will be in a state of 
compression at the instant in which the motion is equally divided, and the re- 
coil from this compression, acting with a force equal to that of the impact 
v/hich produced it, will destroy the remaining half of the velocity of the first, 
and cominunicatc an equal addition to the velocity of the second, so that the 
latter Avill proceed with the entire velocity which belonged to the impinging 
ball, and this will remain at rest. But if the impinging ball be heavier or 
lighter than the other, the motion will not be equally divided at the moment 
when the impact brings them to a common velocity — that is to say, at the mo- 
ment when, if non-elastic, they would begin to move together ; and the recoil, 
which doubles the efi'ect of impact, will destroy less or more than the entire 
motion of the first and Avill add an equal amount to the motion of the second. 
If less than the entire motion of the first is destroyed, that body will continue 
to advance ; if more, it will move in a contrary direction, or rebound. If the 
second, at the moment of maximum compression, has received less than half 
the motion of the impinging body, (in which case it is the lighter of the two,) 
the joint velocity with which both tend to advance together will be greater than 
half the original velocity ; and as this will be doubled for the body originally 
at rest, by the recoil, the second body will go on with a velocity greater than 
that of the impinging body. But if the .second in the collision receives more 
than half the motion of the impinging body, (in which case it will be the heavier,) 
the joint velocity will be less than half the original velocity, and accordingly 
the final velocity of the second will not be so great as that with which the first 
encountered it. 

Regarding the successive strata of the ether in a luminous wave as clastic 
bodies, it will follow that so long as they are equal in mass (which will be the 
case when the density is uniform) the passage of an undulation or tremor will 
leave all the ether behind it at rest. But if, at any given point, a stratum of 
greater mass (that is, an ether of different density) be encountered, there will 
be a movement of return as well as a movement of advance ; that is to say, there 
will be a refiected undulation which, in the view we are now taking, will be an 
imdulation by condensation. If the change of density be from denser to rarer, 
then the advaiice movement of the impinging tremor will not be entirely arrested, 
and there will be a reflected undulation by rarefoction. We have here sup- 
posed the impinging wave to be in that phase in which the molecules are mov- 
ino- in the same direction as the wave itself. But the consequences will be 
entirely analogous if we suppose it to be in the opposite phase : only that, on 
that supposition, the phases of the rejected waves will also be the reverse of 
what is stated above. 

It appears, therefore, that at any surface at which the luminiferous ether 
undergoes a change of density, an impinging wave will, in general, be divided 
into two parts, one of which will be propagated beyond the surface, while the 
other will be reflected from it. It remains to be considered what should be the 
laws governing the directions in which these two waves will proceed. 



REFLECTION AND REFRACTION. 



159 




Fie:. 



Foi- tliis purpose let us assume a 
plane surface, as MN, bounding a trans- 
parent medium more dense than air. 
Let AA' be the point of a plane wave 
advancing in the direction ]^A, P'A', 
jjand passing from the air into the medi- 
um between the points A and 15. AVe 
have seen that this Avave Avill be par- 
tially reflected from AB. In order to 
determine the front of the reflected 
wave let us suppose, according to the 
principle of Huyghens, that every point 
of the surface of AB is the origin of a new spherical wave propagated in every 
direction from that point. It will be sufficient for the illustration to attend to 
a few only of these points, as, for instance. A, C, and B: — C being taken half 
way between the other two. By hypothesis AA' is perpendicular to PA/ 
Draw CA" parallel to PA. The velocity of the reflected wave being equal to 
that of the incident, when the wave front AA' reaches the position Gb, the ele- 
mentary reflected wave from A will have travelled to a distance equal to CA." 
When' A' reaches B the reflected wave from A will have reached a distance 
AB' equal to AB. Also, at the same instant, the elementary wave from will 
have travelled a distance CB" equal to ^Bz=A'i. With A and C as centres de- 
scribe the small circular arcs shown at B' and B'', and from B draw BB' tangent 
to the first of these arcs. It will also be tangent to the second. For if AB'Q' 
be, drawn from A through the point of contact B', and CB"Q" parallel to 
it, then, because AB is bisected in 0, CB" is half of A B' ; and it is also 
perpendicular to B'B, consequently B" is a point in the spherical wave front 
which originates from C. And as similar reasoning may be applied to all the 
elementary waves reflected from the points between A and B, it follows that 
the tangent BB' is the resultant reflected wave front moving in the direction 
AQ' or BQ. Also, from the similarity of the triangles AA'B and AB'B, it 
is evident that the inclination of the wave front AA', or of the ray PA to the 
reflecting surface MN, is equal to that of the wave front BB', or of the ray 
BQ to the same surface. The incident and reflected rays are therefore equally 
inclined also to the normal to the surface: or, in other words, the angle of re- 
flection is equal to tbe angle of incidence. 

If we turn our attention to that portion of the incident wave which is propa- 
gated into the medium beyond the surface, the construction which determines 
the refracted wave front is analogous to the foregoing. Only, in the second 
medium, as it is the denser of the two, the velocity of 'jiropagation w^l be 
diminished. Suppose it to be so in the ratio of n to 1, the circles described 
from A and C must have their radii, AB'" and Cc reduced below A'B, and 
5B in the same proportion.* The wave front of the refracted wave Avill then 
be the common tangent BB'" of these circles. Also, if we observe that A'B ^= 
AB sin. AAB, and AB"' = AB sin. B" BA, we shall obtain the proportion, 

sin A'AB : sin B"'BA : : A'B : AB'" '.-.%'. 1. 

But tbcse angles, being the inclinations of the wave fronts to the refracting 
surface, are also the inclinations of the rays themselves to the normal to the 



'' A diminished velocity might be a consequence of a change in the timt of a vibration 
without a corresponding change in the undulation length; or it might be caused by a change 
(rf both. But, in the case in hand, wo uic not at liberty to assume any change in the time 
of the vibration, because the impulses which produce the molecular movements in the second 
medium are the vibrations themselves of the first. The undulations in the two media are, 
therefore, isochronous ; and it is only possible to explain the dii'ierenco of velocity of undala- 
tion progress by siipposing a change of undulation length. 



IGO UNDULATOEY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

surface ; tliat is, tliey are the angles of incidence and refraction. The law of 
Snellius is thus very simply deduced from the theory of undulation. It also 
appears froai the foregoing proportion that the velocity before refraction is to 
the velocity after refraction as the sine of incidence is to the sine of refraction, 
or as the index of refraction is to' unity. 

It was not until after Huyghens had perfected his theory of refraction, that 
ho became acquainted with the remarkable case of Iceland spar. In order to 
reconcile the phenomena presented by this crystal with his theory, it was 
necessary to suppose that the incident wave is divided at the refracting surface 
into ttvo waves having unequal velocities. But, inasmuch as one of these waves 
must, on this hypothesis, and, in order to meet the phenomena, have a velocity 
greater in some directions than in others, it occurred to him that the second 
wave must probably be splieroulal, and not spherical. Following out this in- 
genious idea, he presently discovered that it contained a perfect explanation of 
all the apparent anomalies of double refraction ; and by generalizing the 
method which has just been given for finding the direction of a ray after re- 
fraction, and extending it to embrace sjihcroidal as Avell as spherical wave 
surfaces, he contrived a geometrical construction by which the path of the ex- 
traordinary as well as of the ordinary ray may, in all cases, be exactly deter- 
mined. 

In order to understand this, let it be observed that the greatest and least 
axes of the spheroidal wave will evidently be proportioned to the greatest and 
least velocities of the ray in the crystal ; and these velocities are inversely as 
the corresponding indexes of refraction. Also, as the least index, in the case 
of Iceland spar, is that which is found in the plane perpendicular to the optic 
axis, and as the refraction is there conformable to the law of Snellius, it is 
manifest that this is the plane of greatest velocity, and is the equatorial plane 
of the spheroid. The polar axis of the wave corresponds in direction, therefore, 
with the optic axis of the crystal. Let it also be remembered th.it the least 
velocity of the (extraordinary ray is the constant velocity of the ordinary ray ; 
or is, in other words, the radius of the spherical wave. 

If, now, a plane wave of light fall obliquely upon the surf ice of a crystal of 
Iceland spar, intersecting it in a straight line, any point of this line of inter- 
section may be assumed as the common centre of a spherical and a spheroidal 
wave, having one diameter in common, parallel to'the optic axis of the crystal, 
which common diameter is the axis of revolution of the spheroid. Moreover, 
as this supposition may be made of every other imaginable point of the line of 
intersection, it follows that there will l)C an inlinito number of elementary 
waves, spherical and spheroidal, simultaneously generated. As the incident 
wave advances, the line of intersection will advance along the surface of the 
crystal ; and in every position of this line a new set of elementary waves will 
in like manner originate. By reasoning similar to that which was employed in 
the illustration of ordinary refraction, it may be shown that, in any position of 
the incident wave, all the elementary spherical waves Avill be touched by one 
and the same tangent plane ; and all the elementary spheroidal waves will be 
touched by one plane likewise. These two tangent planes must intersect each 
other in the line in which the incident wave intersects, at the moment, the sur- 
face of the crystal, or the plane of that sm-face ; but they will not coincide ex- 
cept in the single case in which the velocities of wave progress are equal ; that 
is to say, when the movement of progress within the crystal is in the direction 
of the optic axis. 

The geometrical problem of determining the path of the exti*aordinary ray 
reduces itstdf, therefore, to this. With the point of incidence as a centre 
describe a sphere. Upon that diameter of the sphere which coincides with the 
optic axis describe a spheroid of revolution, whoso revolving axis is to its fixed 



DOUBLE REFRACTION. IGl 

axis as tlie greatest index of refraction is to the least. In the plane of inci- 
dence lay down the path of the ordinary ray according to the law of Snellius. 
Through the intersection of this path with the surface of the sphere pass a 
plane tangent to the sphere ; and through the intersection of this tangent plane 
with the plane of the refracting surface pass another plane tangent to the 
spheroid. The radius of the spheroid drawn to the point of contact Avill be the 
path of the extraordinary ray. 

The following is the construction usually given in this case. It has the 
advantage of involving only the angle of incidence. Let the velocity before 
refraction be represented by unity; and after refraction let the velocity of the 
ordinary ray be v, and that of the extraordinary ray perpendicular to the optic 
axis be i''. With the point of incidence as a centre let there be described a 
sphere and a spheroid, as before, the radius of the sphere being = r, and the 
revolving axis of the spheroid being =«/. On the plane of the refracting sur- 
face and in the plane of incidence take a distance (in the direction of progress) 
equal to the cosecant of the angle of incidence, and through the point so de- 
termined draw a perpendicular to the plane of incidence. The plane passing 
through this perpendicular and touching the spheroid, determines the direction 
of the extraordinary ray, which, as before, coincides with the radius to the 
point of contact. 

To illustrate by a comparatively simple case. In figure 34, let MN be the 
surfiice of the crystal, and CD the direction of the optic axis. Let also the plane 

of incidence (represented by the plane of the figure) 
be a principal section. EC being the direction of 
the ray and C the point of incidence, make RC = 
unity, draw CG perpendicidar to RC, and RGr par- 
allel to MX, cutting CCI in G. Draw GQ parallel 
to RC Then GQ being made radius, QC is the 
cosecant of QCG = PCR = the angle of incidence, 
p.^ .,, Then if, with the centre C, a sphere be described 

''' " ' whose radius is CD = v, and also a spheroid whose 

polar radius is CD aloO, and whose equatorial radius is made =: v', the tangents 
QE, QF, drawm through Q to the sphere and spheroid respectively, will deter- 
mine the directions of CE, CF, the ordinary and extraordinary rays. 

The hypothesis of Iluyghens comi)letely determines the geometrical law of 
double refraction, but it leaves the physical cause of the phenomenon unex- 
plained. It is easy to understand how the disturbance at a single point of the 
molecules of an ether of uniform density and elasticity shoxild produce a spheri- 
cal wave; and it is also easy to comprehend how a similar disturbance in an 
ether of variable density or variable elasticity should produce a wave having 
a surface not spherical ; but, as undulation was understood in the time of 
Iluyghens, it was not easy to comprehend how waves of both these descriptions 
should be goneriited in the same ether simultaneously. We have alreadv seen 
that Iluyghens himself was very greatly astonished to observe that, when the 
two rays into which a single incident ray is divided by double refaction in a 
crystal of Icland spar, fall, after emergence, upon a second similar crystal, they 
are, each of them, in some, and in fact, in most positions of this second crystal, 
again divided, so as, of the single original ray, to make four; while in other 
positions they arc not so subdivided, but remain two only. But, in fact, this 
new phenomenon presents no really new cause of astonishment. The thing 
which ought to have surprised him, the point which involved, in truth, all tlnf 
difficulty of the conception, lay in the actual coexistence of dissimilar waves in 
the same ethci-. No mode of explaining this fact could well have failed to ex- 
plain the other at the same time. 

It was only, however, after the entire inadequacy of any theory of light which 
11 s 




1G2 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

had been suggested, to explain the multiplied and brilliant phenomena of polari- 
zation and double retraction had been universally felt and acknowledged, that an 
idea presented itself (and tliis .simultaneously, or nearly so, to two distinguished 
physicists ) which contained within itself the key to the original and to all suc- 
ceeding difficulties. In undulation, as understood by Huyghens, Newton, and 
others, the molecular movements were supposed to be always in the direction of 
wave-progress and the contrary. Though this is the case with the atmospheric 
undulations which produce sound, it was ingeniously suggested by Fresnel and 
Young th it it is probably not so with the ethereal undulations which produce 
light. Polarized rays are differently affected to reflecting surfaces on their dif- 
ferent sides. Suppose the movements of the molecules to be normal to the di- 
rection of progress, and this fact is easily explained. And not only that, but a 
whole class of perplexing, and pre^viously, in fact, entirely inexplicable phenom- 
ena, to which we shall have presently to attend, are, by this simple supposition, 
rendered, not merely intelligible, bat so necessary consequences of the hypothe- 
sis, that they might have been predicted (as some of them actually were) before 
having been ever observed. 

Though the idea of transverse vibrations occurred, as just remarked, to Young 
as well as to Fresnel, it is, nevertheless, to Fresnel alone that the credit is due 
of having made it the basis of a theory fully wrought out and est :bli.died, as well 
upon the basis of a thorough mathematical analysis, as of an elaborate and ex- 
tensive experimental verification. To apply it at present to explain the possi- 
ble coexistence of two independent waves of different curvature and difierent 
progressive velocity, originating simultaneously from a common centre in a 
doubly refracting medium, we have but to make the two assumptions follow- 
ing, viz : 

1. The molecular movements, being in both of the two waves at right angles 
to the direction of progress, are performed in planes which are at right angles 
to each other. 

2. The elasticity of the ether which determines the velocity of a tremor is 
not the same in all directions within the medium. 

It will presently be more part.cularly shown in what manner those two as- 
sumptions serve to explain all the phenomena which appeared so unaccountable 
to Huyghens, as well as many others which were not known to him. 

§ IV. INTERFERENCE. 

We Avill now proceed to apply briefly the theory of undulation to the expla- 
nation of some of the phenomena which we have heretofore detailed without 
accounting for. Many, or must of the phenomena depend on the mutual influ- 
ence of different undulations conspiring or conflicting in consequence of the 
superposition of one upon the other. A gi'oss illustration often employed in 
explaining this idea is to refer to the appearances presented by the intersecting 
rings formed in water into which two pebbles have been thrown. The elevated 
rings and their intervening depressions are undulations; the molecular move- 
ments are vertical, while the undulation progress is horizontal. When the rings 
intersect, the points where two ridges cross are doubly elevated ; the points 
where two hollows ci'oss are doubly depressed ; while the points in v/hich a 
ridge in one system crosses a hollow of the other are neither elevated nor de- 
pressed. The term applied to this influence of one undulation upon another is 
interj'erence. 



PRESrCIPLE OF INTERFERENCES. 



ic- 




The interferences of liquid 
waves are finely illusti'ated in 
tile undulations of mercury con- 
tained in a vessel of elliptical 
fij^ure. If a disturbance be pro- 
duced at one of the focal points of 
the ellipse, the circular waves pro- 
ceeding from it will, by reflection 
from the sides of the vessel, form 
a second similar system having 
for its centre the other focus. If 
the corresponding- j)oints of in- 
ferference be connected, they will 
form, as the figure shows, two 
sets of curves, elliptical and hy- 
perb lie, having for their com- 
mon foci the foci of the original 
ellipse. 

The interference of waves of 
sound is often very perceptible. It is observed only in musical sounds because 
it can only be observed in those whose undulations are continuous and uniform; 
and such sounds are musical. It is best observed when the waves are long — as 
in the case of the grave tones of the heavier organ-pipes. The sniking and 
swelling of the sound, called by musicians the beat, is owing to one of the inter- 
fering waves being slightly longer or shorter than the other. In many r-p<'ti- 
tions this slight difference of length accumulates until it reach'^s half an undu- 
lation, when, if the two waves originally conspired — that is, (to borrow agdn an 
illustration from the water,) if their two crests were originally superposed — th y 
will, after this difference has crept in, be in conflict ; or the crest of one will fall 
lapon the hollow of the other. Daring this interval a sinking of the sound will 
have been ob-^erved ; but immediately after, as the difference of path goes on 
increa-iing from a half to a wliole undulation, the sound will swell asriin as the 
two crests once more approach superposition. We need hardly remark that the 
interference of waves of sound of prrfrrtli/ equal length would not be jicrcepti- 
ble to us ; for, in that case, the resultant sound would be a constant. If we en- 
deavor, by moving about while two bodies of precisely similar pitch are sound- 
ing, to pass from the points of conspiring to those of conflicting undulation, we 
shall not find it easy to detect these points for several reason.s 

In the first place, Avhen the molecular movements are normal to the wav 
front, as in the case of sound, there is no complete interfiTence, or approach to 
complete interference, except when the waves are tangt-ntial, or approximately 
so, to each other ; except, therefore, in or near the line of the centres, and except, 
it may be added, when the distance between the centres is an exact number of 
half undulations. Again, at the intersections of sonorous waves, whether the 
molecular movements conspire or conflict, their resultant is never so great as the 
sum, nor so small as the di'iference of the two components. The difference of 
intensity between the maxima and minima of sound in such cases will not be 
striking, unless they succeed each other with brief intervening intervals of time, 
as in the case of the heats* 

It is, however, by this second method that we detect the interferences of light, 
and not at all by the first. That is to say, we discover these interferences by 
moving the eye through the space where they exist, when the points of maxi- 
mum and minimum brightness are easily observed ; or we let fall the interfering 



* Mr. Dcspr.-tz has succeeded in this rather difficult experiment of localizing the inter- 
ferences of sound from two pipes in perfect uaisoa. 



1G4 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

rays upon a wliite surface, when the same points will become manifest by their 
difference of illuminating power. The first method is best, especially if the eye 
be assisted by a lens, but the second is that which was used by the earliest 
observers. 

We cannot detect the interferences of light by observing periodical maxima 
and minima, like the beats in music, because of the almost inconceivable short- 
ness of the undulations. But if the waves of light Avere as long as the waves 
of sound, interferences might easily be made to manifest themselves, something 
in the manner of the scintillation of the stars, though Avith a regularity which 
that phenomenon does not possess. 

B'-fort' proceeding now to a more particular inquiry into the laws of the inter- 
fi-rence of luminous waves, it is proper to make two or three preliminary ex- 
planations. TIk^ phenomena compel us to the assumption that the molecular 
movements in these waves are normal to the direction of progress ; that is, to 
the direction of vision. In other words, they are in the plane of the wave itself, 
and at right angles to the ray. If we suppose that all ethereal tremors have 
this character, we must account for the fact by presuming that the ether is 
nearly incompressible. If this is the case, the vibrations of the luminous body, 
at its surface, may move latcraUy the whole stratum of ethereal particles which 
is most nearly in contact with it, though they produce little if any motion per- 
pendicular to the surface. 

If MN, for example, be the surface of the luminous body, A, A, A, &;c., the 
row of ethereal particles next it. A', A', A', &c., the row beyond this, and so on, 

the aiTangement of these particles will, on the 
^"-^ A'f JE' vC" ^' -0' ^^ principle of etiuilibrium, be such that the dis- 

-Q-' ^1^^' ^-^' d^" ^o^p p tances of adjacent particles shall be equal. If 
^-^p-^^^o o o d the molecular vibrations of the surface JMN are 

^—ir^^'^. °^ <^/i 9, 9i incapable of driving the particles A, A, A, &c., 
j^j ]ff du-ectly outward toward the plane or A',A',A', 

Fio-. 36. &c., on account of the very difficult compressi- 

bility of the ether, they may, nevertheless, 
move them all sideways in the direction AB. Let the entire force of this 
movement b<^ represented by AB. Join AA', and di-aw BG perpendicular to 
it The force AB may be resolved into the two forces CB and AC, of which 
the second is directed toward the centre of A'. This again may be resolved 
into the two, AD and DC, of which the first is normal to MN, and, by hy- 
pothesis, produces no sensible movement. But DC is parallel to MN, and, as 
all the other particles in the stratum A',A', and are simultaneously acted upon 
by similar forces, they will all move in the direction of DC, without changing 
their distances from each other. 

It Is not necessary to suppose that the ether has absolutely no compressibility. 
In fact, if it had none at all, it could have no elasticity ; or, what is, singularly 
inough, practically the same thing, its elasticity would be infinite. But its 
eora[)ressibility must be esteemed very slight, and its elasticity accordingly very 
liigh, not merely because of the n<^cessity of admitting lateral or transverse 
A-ibrations, but because of the immense veloiity of light. It is easy to see that, 
if the ether were totally incompressible, the velocity of light (if in such circum- 
stances there could be any such thing as light) would be infinite ; that is to say, 
any movement in the ether, if it could be produced at all, must be produced 
simultaneously tlu-ough the whole extent of the ether. In proportion as com 
pression is easy, the rapidity of the propagation of a disturbance (density re- 
maining the same) must be less. The immense velocity of light affords, therefor , 
a strong ground for believing that the compressibility of the ether is very small. 
Still, it is hardly conceivable that there should exist absolutely no molecular 
movements normal to the wave at all ; and, in fact, the existence of such vibra- 



PHYSICAL THEORY OF POLATJIZATIOX. 1C5 

tions is now generally admitted, though they are usually af^sumed to be incapable 
of impressing the organs of vision. 

But while the molecular movements in luminous waves arc assumed to be at 
right angles to the direction of progress, or of the ray, there exists no natural 
necessity to determine them in azimuth toward one direction rather than toward 
anothei-. It is accordingly capable of easy demonstration that ordinary light 
has no determinate plane or azimuth of vibration, but that its successive undu- 
lations assume every variety of azimuth. There is no proof, however, that 
changes of azimuth are incessant ; in other words, that many undulations, in 
fact, many thousands or perhaps millions, do not follow each other usually, in 
the !;ame azimuth, between the changes. This, indeed, is probable, since the 
ethereal vibrations take their character from those of the luminous body, and 
these may reasonably be presumed to have a certain persistence in their modes 
of vibration, or at least not to undergo incessant and abrupt changes. Beyond 
a certain limit, however, this persistency could not continue; nor could there, 
among the changes which occur, be a predominating disposition to return to one 
azimuth oftener than to another, or to remain in it longer, without imparting to 
the light, more or less decidedly, the character of polarization. If five hundred 
millions of the mean undulations of white light were to follow each other in a 
single azimuth, they would occupy less than the millionth part of a second ; 
and, accordingly, if five hundred millions of such undulations should take place 
in each of a million different azimuths successively, the whole would be per- 
formed in one second, and no instrumental test could detect polarization in the 
aggregate beam. 

The polarization of light consists, therefore, in the determination of all its 
vibrations to a single plane. The effect of double refraction is to do this with 
both the rays into which the incident common light is divided ; and the effect 
of reflection at certain definite angles, from certain bodies, as heretofore ex- 
plained, is to do the same with the reflected ray. 

Prof. Dove, of Berlin, has illustrated in a very ingenious manner the physical 
relation of common to polarized light. A Nicol's prism having been mounted 
in such a manner as to admit of being rapidly rotated about its axis, he trans- 
mitted through it a ray of common light, which gave, of course, an emergent 
polarized ray capable of traversing a crystal of Iceland spar (having its princi- 
pal plane coincident with the plane of polarization) without double refraction. 
On setting the prism into rotation double refraction instantly appeared, and the 
ray was equally divided by the crystal in all azimuths. 

When two polarized rays follow each other in the same path or intersect un- 
der a very acute angle, it is obvious that, if their planes of polarization agree 
in azimuth, they are in condition to interfere. If in phase of undulation they 
are perfectly accordant, the two waves will be superposed, and the molecular 
velocity of the resultant wave will be equal to the sum of the velocities of the 
two components; but if there is a difference of phase between them amounting 
to exactly half an undulation, then the crest of one wave will fall on the hollow 
of the other, and the resultant molecular velocity will be equal to the difference 
of velocities of the components. If the difference of phase is any other frac- 
tion of an undulation, the circumstances of the resultant are determined by 
precisely the same equation as that which has been given for the resultant mo- 
tion of a vibrating solid, (equation [3],) in the same case. If a vibrating solid 
derive its motion from two impulses which are not synchronous, we have seen 
that its phases of vibration will be somewhere between those which the im.- 
pulses would have separately produced. Its actual vibration will therefore 
produce an undulation or series of undulations, which will occupy the same 
situation in space relatively to those which the separate impulses would have 
produced, as the generating vibration occupies relatively to the component vi- 
brations, in time. And it matters not to the result, whether we suppose two 



^.GG 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT, 



component systems of undulations to be first generated bj independent vibra- 
tions and then combined; or suppose the two vibrations to be first combined, 
and then to generate a single resultant system of undulations — the resultant 
system is the same in both cases. On the first hypothesis, we allow two forces 
to work out their effects separately and then unite the effects; on the second, 
we unite the forces themselves, and make them unite their effects from the start. 
Referring to the equation just cited, we see that the resultant molecular ve- 
locity, when the movements are in the same plane, takes every value according 
to the difference of phase of the components, from the sum to the di2"erencc of 
the two component velocities. Thus, if be put =^ 0°, the equation 



Azzi-^ a^+a''^ + 2aa' cosO, will become A:=z ^/ a^ + a''^ + 2aa' i 
Or, if a~a', AznSo. 
If ^ = 90° A= ^/a'^+a'^- or, if a — a', A = aV2. 



:a-\-a'. 



If ^=rl80O, A— >/a^+a''^—2ua': 
If ^ = 60°, A= VoHVH^m' 
If ^ = 120°, A= Va2 -}-«'-— 



-a — a' \ or, if a=^a', A^O. 
or, if a^=a', A=a V3. 
a'; or, if a=^a', A = a. 



It may aid in obt<aining clear conceptions of this subject to employ a graphic 
illustration. Such notions are very desirable at this point of our progress, if 
we would understand the application of the theory of undulation to the expla- 
nation of optical phenomena ; and especially of those of highest interest. In 
the annexed figure, let the two curves PHA, QMN, represent two undula- 
tions, whose molecular velocities are the ordinates drawn to the common axis, 
MNAC, and whose maxima velocities are PP', QQ'. The undulation PHA 
is the more advanced in position ; but, referred to any common intersecting 
line as LA, the undulation QMN is the more advanced in phase. 




Figr 37. 

Now we have seen that the resultant maximum molecular velocity, -when 
these undulations are combined, will be the diagonal of a parallelogram, oi 
which PP' and QQ/ are the sides, and of which the angle of inclination of 
the adjacent sides shall be equal to the difference of phase between the compo- 
nents. Accordingly, from the point A, where the curve representing the undu- 
lation least advanced in phase crosses the axis, measure off' AC, in the direction 
of progress, equal to QQ', the maximum velocity of the wave most advanced 
in phase. From C, measure backward, OB, equal to PP', the other compo- 
nent maximum velocity. Prom the centre C, with the radius CA, describe 



INTERFERENCE — RESULTANT UNDULATIONS. 167 

the circle AP]D, &c. At the point C lay off the angle DCA, cr|U;il to the 
difference of phase of the two components, thus : 

Draw AL perpendicular to the axis at A. Upon this take AK, the devel- 
opment of the semicirch AED, &c. Join KH, and draw Nd! parallel to it. 
Kd is the development of the arc AED, which measures the angle DCA, the 
difference of phase. For HA is to NA as a half undulation is to the difference 
of phase: — that is, as n scjninrcumfercnce is to the am tchich measvrcs the 
difference of pTia.sf. But AK is a semicircumference, and ^d being parallel to 
KH, we have. 

HA : NA::KA : At? : AOx- : arc AED(— A^.) 

Join therefore CD, and complete the parallelogram CDGB, drawing the 
diagonal CG. Then from what has been before demonstrated, the angle ACE, 
or the arc AE, is the measure of the interval in phase between the resultant 
and the component CB zm PP'. The curve of that component crosses the axis 
in A. Let, then, k.e be the development of AE, and draw eF parallel to KH. 
F is the point at which the curve of the resultant undulation will cross the axis 
in ascending. Making FS =: AH, S is the point where the same curve crosses 
in der^cendnig. And making SR' rzz HP', H' is the point of maximum re^^ultant 
velocity. Draw K'R perpendicular to the axis, and make it equal to GC, the 
diagonal of the parallelogram; II is the vertex of the resultant curve. Any 
other points of this curve may be found by taking the sums of the ordinates of 
the two components corresponding to the same absciss or point of the axis, 
with like signs when both components arc above or both below the axis, and 
with unlike signs when one is above and the other below, for the ordinates of 
the resultant curve. The curve itself may then be drawn through the points 
so determined. 

This construction enables us visibly to verify the analytical results which 
were just now presented. Let the radius, CD, revolve i-ound the point C the 
parallelogram changing its figure as the revolution advances, and the variations 
in the value of CG may easily be conceived. 

Thus, whon 6 = DA = 0^, the point D will fall upon CA, and the point 
G upon BIL CB and BG will then be in a straight line, and CG will equal 
CB + BG = a -^ a'. W hen B = 90 ^ DCA and GBC are right angles. 
and CG = VBJ^ + BG^ or, A= ^f a"- + a". When d = 180^ CD falls 
on the axis to the right of C, and BG falls on BA. Hence, CG = a — a . 
In this case, if a; = a', A = 0; or if equal waves differ in phase by half an 
undulation they destroy each other. The two curves intersect the axis in the 
same points, but the -couvexity of one of them corresponds in position to the 
concavity of the other. Also, if equal waves differ in phase in any manner, 
the crest of the resultant will fall half way between the crests of the two com- 
ponents. 

When Q exceeds 180°, or the waves are more than half an undulation apart 
the angle of the parallelogram must still ba measured from A through D round 
to D', and the inclination of the diagonal must be taken in the same way, from 
A through ED and D' round to E'. These arcs being developed on AL 
produced, will give the position of the movable component and of the resultant 
by drawing parallels to cut KH, as before. It will be seen in this case that, in 
effect, the wave which we have regarded as the precedivg wave becomes the 
fMoxoing wave, and vive versa; for if we consider the crests that nearest agree 
in position as forming 'pairs, these pairs will be broken up by a discordance of 
more than half an undulation, and new pairs will be formed — the lagging crests 
ceasing to agree with those crests of the other component which are before 
them, and beginning to agree with those behind them. Hence, as the resultant 
crest must fall between the two components of a pair, it in this case goes further 



168 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

back than the wave which our construction makes i\ie_ following wave. This 
construction, therefore, embraces all possible cases. 

But if" the rays which are thus brought together are polarized in planes at 
right angles to each other, then it will be manifest that the movements of neither 
can interfere with those of the other; but, as in the case of the vibrating solid 
again, they may produce a resultant of which the character may vary from a 
plane vibration through every form of ellipse to a circle. Equation [1] ex- 
presses the circumstances of this case. 

Thus, if, in that equation, we assume the difference of phase represented by 
to be 90°, cos 6 becomes =0, sin = 1, and the equation is 

which is the equation of the ellipse when the axes of figure coincide with the ases 
of co-ordinates. If we make a = a', then we have 

?/2 -I- 2^2 __ ^2^ 

which is the equation of the circle. 

If the difference of phase is 0°, then 

(I'^IJ^ — 2(3a'r y -f- a?x^ = 6, or a'y — ax = 0, 
which is the equation of a straight line ; and if a once more be put = a', ar = y. 
or the straight line makes equal angles with the directions of the original 
molecular movements. 

If the planes of the two undulations are neither normal to each other, nor co- 
incident, there will be an interference which will be more or less complete, as 
the inclination of the planes is less. 

Rays of common light, if the difference of their paths be not very gi-eat, will 
interfere, notwithstanding the fact that their undulations are confined to no 
determinate azimuth. This fact proves, what has been above assumed, that the 
changes of azimuth in common bght cannot be incessant. But there is one con- 
dition absolutely indispensable to produce interference in any case; it is that 
the rays shall have a common origin. 

If the light subjected to experiment be unpolarized, the necessity of the con- 
dition is easily explamed. The changes of the azimuth of vibration in two 
such rays could not, except upon a supposition Avhich has an infinity of chances 
against it, take place at the same intervals and in the same order; and if they 
did, the chances would be equally great against the coincidence of those planes. 
It appears, however, to be true, as well of polarized rays as of common light, 
that they will not interfere unless from the same origin. We are obliged, there- 
fore, to resort to the supposition, which has a priori, moreover, strong 
probability in its favor, that there are irregularities at the very origin of the 
undulations, or at the surface of the luminous body, which are propagated 
with the undulations, and which will prevent the permanent coincidence or 
conflict of two sets of undulations, unless both are equally affected by the same 
irregularities. Thus, if we observe the flame of a candle, we shall sec that its 
wavering motion will make the point of departure of the undulations it gene- 
rates unsteady. But a diffei-ence of a single one hundred-thousandth part of 
an inch in the position of the origin of two successive sets of undulations, 
would put them into entirely opposite phases. Considering the activity and 
the energy of the forces at work at the surfaces of incandescent bodies, it is 
impossible to believe that the luminous waves which they generate can have 
their origins absolutely invariable in position. 

These things premised, we are prepared to apply the theory of undulation 
to the explanation of all the phenomena of diffraction, polarization, and the 
colors of thin or thick plates, in regard to which we have heretofore stated only 
the facts. It is worth while, however, in the first place, to give a moment's at- 
tention to an ex]ieriment first suggested by Fresnel upon purely theoretic 
grounds, and afterward made by him with complete success; in which the cir- 
cumstances preclude the application of any of the special hypotheses which 
had been previously conceived, for the purpose of accounting for the phenomena. 



INTERFERENCE — FRESNEL'S MIRROR EXPERIMENT. 



169 




while the observed effects are consequences absolutely necessary of the undu- 
latory theory. 

Two mirrors, AB and AC, meet at a very 
obtuse angle at A. II is a minute radiant 
point. The best radiant for this purpose is 
the concentrated light from a small solar beam 
introduced into a dark room and brought to a 
focus by a lens of small focal distance. Rays 
of liglit from It, reflected by the mirrors, pro- 
M ceed as from the points S and S', which are 
in the perpendiculars let fall from 11 on the 
planes of the mirrors severally, and as far 
behind them as II itself is before. If the mir- 
rors AB and AC were in one and the same 
plane, the points S and S' would coincide, or 
there would be but one image of R formed by 
the reflection; and the two images will be 
licarer to each other, just in proportion as the 
angle CAB approaches to two right angles. 
The spherical waves proceeding from R as a 
centre would be reflected from a single mirror in a system entirely similar to the 
original one, proceeding apparently from the image behind the mirror. When 
there are two mirrors and two such images, there will be two such systems of 
spherical wr..ves, which will intersect each other in arcs more and more nearly 
coincident, as the images which are their centres are nearer together. In the 
figure there are drawn, with equal radii, from S and S', a succession of equidis- 
tant circular arcs, which may be considered to represent the crests of the suc- 
cessive waves. The intermediate dotted arcs may be taken for the hollows. 
According to the principles already laid down there should be increased energy 
of movement — that is an increase of brightness — wherever two ridges or two 
hollows cross each other ; and diminished movement, or a diminution of light 
where a hollow crosses a ridge. And as it is obvious, on inspection, that the 
intersections Avill be more widely separated from each other in proportion as the 
centres are nearer to each other, it follows that these theoretically predicted 
effects Avill be more conspicuous and more decided in proportion as the planes of 
the two mirrors approach coincidence. If the light reflected from such a pair 
of mirrors be received upon a screen, it Avill be obvious that, whatever be the 
distance from S and S', there will be a point, as a, where the radii Sa and S'a 
will be equal ; and as this will be true of all points iu a line through a })arallel 
to the intersection of the planes of the mirrors, there should here be a coincidence 
of movements, and accordingly a bright stripe. At a little distance on each 
side of this stripe there will be found parallel lines, in which the radius from 
one of the centres will exceed that from the other by the length of one entire 
undulation; and in these lines the movements will be once more in coincidence, 
and the light will again be in excess. But between them and the central line 
there will be found other positions in which the radii will difter by only half an 
undulation ; and, as the movements in these positions will be directly opposed 
to each other, the light should disappear. Extending this reasoning, we should 
look for a series of stripes alternately dark and bright on each side of the cen- 
tral bright stripe, at distances sensibly equal to each other. These conclusions 
arc fully confirmed by experiment.* 

* Prof. Potter, of London, affirms, in opposition to all other experimenters, that the central 
stripe in this experiment is often seen dark instead of light ; and in fact more usually so 
than otherwise. — \_Londo7i Journal of Science, XVI, 1840. Also, Plnjsical Optics, I^oudon, 
1850.] Prof. Baden Powell, on the other hand, states that he has endeavored to verify this 
assertion with every possible attention to the conditions prescribed by Prof. Potter, but 
entirely without success. — [^A General and Elementary Vicic of the Undulutunj Theory, Sfc, 
Loudon, 184L1 



170 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

By means rf a movable eyepiece, pi-ovided with a microitctrical apparatus, 
Frcsnel accurately measured the distances of these stripes from each other, 
and thus deduced the lengths of the undulations by which they are produced. 
In fact, as the locus of the central bright stripe is in the line of intersections, of 
which o is one, and that of the adjacent bright stripe is in the line of intersec- 
tions, of which h is one, we have a small triangle ahc, whose sides arc severally 
perpendicular to those of the triangle «SS' ; and accordingly, 

cS : SS' :: he : ac; or ac= pr— . [7.1 

aii *■ ■* 

But ac is the length of the undulation, whence it appears that this length is 
equal to the distance between two adjacent similar stripes multiplied by the 
distance between the two radiant centres, and divided by the distance of either 
centre from the screen. As the radiants in this experiment arc merely virtual 
and not actu.il, the values of SS' and aS cannot be conveniently measured. But 
it may be observed that the fraction 
SS' 

-^=2sin JSaS'=2sin BAA'. 
ao 

Hence, ac=bc.2s'm ^SaS'—bc.2sm BAA'. [8.] 

The angle S«S' may be directly measured by an instrument placed at a, or 
the angle BAA', which is the inclination of the mirrors, may be otherwise deter- 
mined. 

Putting A for the length of the undulation, <f for the angle iS«S', and S for 
the distance between the stripes, the I'oregoing equation gives 

;.=2sincr X ; or 0=—, ; f 9.1 

Whence it appears that the distance between the stripes will be greater as 
^ is less, or as the radiant centres are nearer together. The same process 
applied to the distance from the middle stripe to the second one on either side 
will give — 

0'= — ; — : and for the third, S"^= — ; — , &:c. 
2smc' 2sm^ 

So that the successive stripes .are equidistant from each other. 

Grimaldi's case of diftVaction, in which the radiant centres were two minute 
apertures very near to each other through which light was introduced into a 
dark room, was manifestly analogous in principle to this. To that case the first 
of the formulfie just given may be directly applied. 

The mirrors in the experiment of Fresnel require very careful adjustment. 
If, at the edges where they meet, one or the other projects, however slightly, 
the effect will be sensibly impaired. A prism of glass having two adjacent faces 
very slightly inclined to each other might be used to produce the interferences 
by total reflection from these inclined surfoces, without being subject to this ob- 
jection. The other faces of the prism would require to be so adjusted that the 
light might enter and emerge through them sensibly at right angles. The dis- 
advantage would be that the angle of the reflecting faces would be invariable. 
The experiment admits of being performed, and has been perfoimcd, by the 
help of a single mirror, placed almost but not quite parallel to the original rays, 
so as to cause a portion of the wave very slightly to deviate, and thus to inter- 
fere with the portion which is not reflected. In this case it is obvious that the 
system of fringes produced can embrace only one-half of those which are seen 
in the experiment of Fresnel. 

In place of Fresnel's mirrors Mr. Arago employed a glass prism to produce 
interference by refraction instead of by reflection. Arago's prism has a cross 
section of the form of a very obtuse angled isosceles triangle ; the light being 
received in the experiment perpendicularly upon the base, and emerging at ilu'. 



UNDULATION LENGTHS AND NUMBERS. 



171 



obtuse vertex in two intcrfi'rinp; waves. The effects correspond in all respects 
■with those produced by Frcsnel's mirrors. 

Mr. Arago also introduced a modification of the experiment, which, though 
simple, is very interesting in the bearing upon theory, of its results. In the 
path of one of the interfering rays he interposed a thin lamina of mica. As 
mica is transparent, it was to be expected that fringes would continue to ap- 
pear after the interposition as well as before ; and this expectation is realized. 
But as the undulation length cannot be the same in the mica as in the air, since 
the refracting power of mica exceeds that of air, it was also to be expected that 
the fringes would change their place; and this expectation also is fulfilled. The 
direction of the displacement will depend upon the question, which of the two 
waves, after the lamina is interposed, will be found, when they reach the position 
of the originally luminous central stripe, to be advanced beyond the oth(>rin its 
phase of undulation. This will of course be true of that which has the least 
average length of undulation. If the undulations in mica are of less length 
than in the air, (a necessary supposition, as we have already seen,) the average 
length of undulation on the side of the )nica will be less than that on the other side ; 
and accordingly the phase at the central line of meeting Avill be most advanced 
on the side of the mica. We must therefore assume a line upon the screen par- 
allel to the central line, such that the length of path from the radiant on the side 
of the mica shall be as much less than the length of path from the other radiant 
to the same line, as the thickness of the lamina of mica is less than that of a 
lamina of air embracing the same number of vindulations would be, in order to 
find the position of the bright stripe which is central in the displaced system. 
The whole system is of course moved toward the side of the mica. 

If homogeneous light be employed in the experiment with Fresnel's mirrors 
or Arago's prism, equation [7.] or [8.J furnishes the means of measuring the 
undulation lengths in different parts of the spectrum. In the following table 
are embraced the results of such a measurement, made by Fraunhofer and 
expressed in decimals of an inch, for fourteen different positions determined by 
their relations to the colors or to the fixed lines of the spectrum. The undulation- 
lengths in this tabic are taken from Fraunhofer : the niunbers per second are 
computed on the supposition of a velocity of light of 192,700 miles to the 
second. 



Undulation-hngfJis and nu tubers per second. 



Place iu spectrum 



Line B 

Line 

Middle red 

Line D 

Middle oratigo 
Middle yellow 

]^iue E 

Middle green.. 

Line F 

Middle blue... 
Middle indigo. 

l^iue G 

Middle violet. 
Line H 



Length of un- 
dulations iu 
parts ot inch. 



. 00002708 
. 00002.583 
. 00002441 
.00002319 
, 00002295 
.00002 J 72 
. 00002072 
.00002016 
.0000] 900 
.00001870 
. 00001 703 
.00001689 
.00001 OOf) 
. 00001547 



Number of un- 
dulations iu 
an inch. 



Number of undulations 
per second. 



no, 918 
;{S,7J9 
40, 949 
415, 12:5 
4:*>, 507 
46,0:54 
48, 286 
49, 609 
52, 479 
53, 472 
56, 569 
59, 205 
60, 044 
64, 631 



451,000,000, 
473, 000, 000, 
500, 000, 000, 
527,000,000, 
532,000,000, 
562, 000, OOt), 
59,), 000, 000, 
606,0(10,000, 
641,000,000, 
653, 000, tlOO, 
691 , 000, 00(», 
72:5, 000, 000, 
733, 000, 000, 
789, 000, 000, 



000, 000 
t)00, 000 
000, 000 
000, 000 
000, 000 
OOt), 000 
000, 000 
t)00, 000 
OtiO, 000 
000,000 
000, 000 
000, 000 
000, 000 
000, 000 



172 UNDULATOKY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

If WG compare the numbers of uiululations per second in the foregoinj^ table 
with the numbers per second of acoustic unduhitions corresponding to a given 
pitcli, we shall observe that, if these vibrations had power to aflcct the sense of 
hearing, the middle yellow would produce a tone forty-one octaves above the 
fundamental C, or C between the staves ; and the middle red would be forty 
octaves above the " Stuttgard pitch," or normal A, taken at 440 comi)lete vibra- 
tions. The entire interval covered by the visible sjjectrum Avould be about a 
major fiflh ; between line B and line H, or the part easily visible, a major fourth. 

§ V. DIFFRACTION. 

Wc are now jirepared to understand the causes which produce the stripes or 
frhiges observed by Grimaldi, bordering the shadows of opaque bodies intro- 
duced into a divergent pencil of light from a minute radiant point. Let R, Fig. 
39, be the radiant centre, and PQ the spherical wave front, at any determinate 
distance from It, as IJ.A. In this case, as in the former, and generally in all 
analogous experiments, the best radiant for the ])urpose is obtained by concen- 
trating a small solar beam, (introduced into a dark room,) by means of a lens of 
short focus. Suppose an o})aque screen S to be advanced to A, so as to inter- 
cept the half wave AQ. The light which reaches the 
point B, in the line llA produced, will be the resultant 
eifect of the unobstructed half wave PA. Let AQ 
be divided, at a, b, c, 6cc., into parts, such that the 
lines Ba, Bi, Be, &c., drawn from the point B on a 
screen BO, to the points of division, may successively 
exceed each other by the length of one-half an undu- 
lation ; or such that, drawing the arc AT with B as a 
centre, the intercepts aa', hh' , cc', &:c., may have 
the successive values ^A, X, ^X, &c. Now, if the 
screen S be drawn upward from A to a, the light which reaches B will be the 
resultant effect of the half wave I'A, combined with the resultant effect of the 
small additional wave surface Aa. This latter resultant will be compounded 
of the molecular movements produced at B by the infinite number of minute 
elementary waves, Avhich may be supposed to originate from all the points of 
the given Avave front between A and a. Since all these elementary Avaves 
originate simultaneously, their relatiA'c phases, Avhen they reach B, Avill depend 
on the differences in the lengths of their paths; and as these differences are the 
intercepts betAveen the arcs AQ and AT, there Avill be none, until Ave reach a, 
Avhich will differ from the Avave proceeding from A by so much as half an undu- 
lation. Assuming, then, that their seA'eral intensities are equal, there Avill be no 
complete conflict betAvecn any of the elementary AvaA'es Avithin these limits ; and 
accordingly their resultant effect must be positive, or must add to the intensity 
of the light at B. If, however, Ave raise the screen S higher, the intercepts 
Avill begin to exceed half the length of an undulation, and some of the element- 
ary Avaves originating just b(>yond a will neutralize the effect of some of those near A. 
liaising it to b, there Avill be a complete series of AvaA'es originating between a 
and b, which Avill be in absolute conflict Avith the series Avliich originate between 
A and a ; so that, if Aa and ab Avere exactly equal, and their separate intensi- 
ties, as above supposed, equal also, their resultant effect at B Avould be zero. 
Art is, however, a little larger than ab, both because of the inclination of Ba 
to BA, and because of the curA'ature of AQ. The intensities of the elementary 
derivative Avaves are also presumed to be greater in the direction of the radius 
of the original AvaA'e than in directions inclined to it, though the law of such 
variation of intensity is not known. These causes of difference Avill, neA^erthc- 
Icss, exist to no A'ery marked degree in the immediate A'icinity of the line IIB, 
and consequently the total effect at B of the portion of Avave front AZ» will be sen- 
eibly null. If, noAv, the screen S be further raised to c, the elementary waves 




DIFFRACTION GRIMALDI'S FRINGES. 173 

originatiiif^ between h and c will bo in complete conflict with tlioso between a 
and /). Tlius tlic power of ab to interfere with A« will be nearly neutralized, 
and the point B will receive, once more, nearly all the illumination which Aa 
is capable of sending to it. And in like matuier, if the screen be s^nccessively 
raised to the points d, e, &c., similar alternations of diminished and increased 
brightness may be inferred. After passing the fifth or seventh division, how- 
ever, these successive maxima and minima cease to be perceptible in white light ; 
a consequence partly due to the unequal lengths of the undukitions of the diifer- 
ent colors, and partly to the diminishing length and increasing obliquity of the 
successive divisions of the wave front. 

Dr. Lloyd has illustrated this ease in the following felicitous manner. Let 
the light received at B from the half wave PA be r(;presented by 1, and that 
from the total unobstructed Avave by 2. Represent the effect of Aa by -j-m, 
that of ab by — ;^^', that of be by +7?i", and so on. Then we have, 

2=1 4- w — m'-\-7)i"—7n"', &c. 

Now as each of the successive literal terms is greater than that Avhich follows 
it, if we cut the series at any point the value of all the terms which succeed on 
the right Avill have tin; same sign as the first of them; and the sum of the remain- 
ing terms on the left will be less than 2 if the value cut off is positive, and 
greater than 2 if the value cut off is negative. 

Should these popular illustrations of a somewhat difficult subject appear un- 
satisfactory, it may be observed that analysis leads to the same results, although 
the processes arc complicated. Without going into details, we may remark 
that the intercept aa' is evidently a function of the angle ARa. Put h for the 
intercept, w for the angle, and V for the resultant molecular velocity at B. 
Then, if all the derivative waves begin simultaneously in the arc AQ, the com- 
ponent molecular velocity at B, due to any elementary wave will be expressed by 

?;sin2- ' .dco ; v being the maximum molecular velocity of the derivative wave, 
and ?. the length of an undulation. Hence — 

dY . ^ 7i . f(oj) 
-,— =rsni2---=rsni2-— V^, 
den / / 

since k is a function of co which may be represented hyj[(jj) . 
Ify(<u) be the differential coefficient of y\w), we shall have — 

f'{aj)dY=VSm2K^^^p-./'{a>).daj. 

And ff'{w)d\=Y.T{o>)=-l-cos2-^p- + C. 

OrV.FH=:|^(l-cos2.4-)- 

AsJ'iw), which is the intercept, is always increasing with w, and its differ- 
ential coefficient also, this expression makes it evident that the value of V 
must pass through a series of maxima and minima, since the expression 

1 — cos2- -^' undulates between the values and 2. These maxima and minima 

become, moreovei*, less marked as w increases, since F(w), whatever it may be, 
must increase also. 

This illustration, however, excludes an important consideration, which is, 
that, owing to the constantly increasing obliquity of the arc m to the direction 

of the intercept, the value of -— - as above given should be multiplied by the 

du) 

cosine of the sum of the angles ARa and ABa; which sum is a function of w 



174 . UNDULATORY THEOEY OF LIGHT. 

and of the intercept itself. When w has any considerable magnitude, this 
tactor rapidly reduces the value of — — ; indicating a similarly rapid diminu- 

tion in the fluctuations of value of the integral. On the other hand, when to 
is very .'mall, this factor may be regarded as a constant, and assumed, without 
sensible error, as equal to unity. 

The distance of these fringes from the boundary of the shadow may be de- 
termined as follows. Suppose the screen S to be at a, and let the straight line 
Itc/C be the boundary of the geometrical shadow. Draw aN perpendicular to 
ItA. Call f/N, y/, and AN, x. By construction, Ij« — BA=.JA. Put EA=r, 
BA:=.v, and B«=2'- Then, 

2 2 

2{s-\-x) 2s 

disregarding inappreciable terms of the root, and omitting x in the denominator 
where its efiect on the value of the fraction is insensible. Also, in the circle 

.„2 

whose centre is R, x is the versed sine of A«, and is sensibly equal to ^ 



2r. 



Whcncc- 



2r 2s 2rs " ' ?• + *' 

And putting o, as before, for the distance BC, we have, 

r=-^-'^=^ ; and finally S=J ^^^. [10.] 

From this expression, which is the equation of an hyperbola, it appears that, 
if the screen B move toward A, the /orus of all the points in space correspond- 
ing to B will be. a hyperbolic curve, of which R and a arc the vertices. A sim- 
ilar inference may be drawn from considering that, in all positions of the 
screen B, Ba — BA is constant and equal to ^A ; or BA — Ba= — J>^, whence 
RA-f-BA — Ba, or RB — Ba=RA — ^l, which is also constant. But this 
is the property of a hyperbola whose Jori (not the vertices) are R and 
a, and whose major axis is r — ^X. This latter result is the strictly coi-rect 
one. The discrepancy between it and the former is owing to the omission of 
minute terms in obtaining that result. Put the major axis equal A, and the 
minor axis equal B. Ilien, by the law of the hyperbola, 

B2=?•2-A2=^=r2-(/•-J;.)'='•^-5^•^• or Ji=V7x, 
disregarding the minute negative term. 

The equation of the curve, if we employ the exact values of the axes, will 
be— 

which, when the minute terms are dismissed, simplifies itself to the expression 
found before. 

The semi-axis major of this curve being ^r — ^X, it appears that the curve 
itself passes behind the obstructing edge at the distance of ^X, at which distance 
a wave reflected from the obstacle would meet a wave advancing with a differ- 
ence of ^X. Whether this theoretic indication is actually realized, it would 
perhaps be difficult experimentally to determine. Such a reflected wave, con- 
sidering only the difference of path, would be out of harmony with the advancing 
wave ; but, considering that its molecular movements would be reversed by 
reflection from the dense ether of the obstacle, the harmony would be restored. 

i'^or the distance of the second fringe from the shadow, the expression already 
found for the first answers perfectly, if we prefix to the quantity under the 



BRIGHT FRINGES IN SHADOWS. 



171 



radical tlio cocfHcient 3 ; since the diffarence of paths Be — BA, by wbicli it 
is produced, is equal to §A, instead of ^X. For the third ^vc prefix 5. Thus 
the successive distances are — 



^Jiii^. ,.^/("+'^)^ ,.^=7-2<ri±i!H. [12.] [ 



13.] 



The second hyperbola passes at the distance of f A behind the obstnicting edge, 
and the third at the distance of ^X. Owing- to the great disproportion between 
the axes, r — ^X, and s/ta — ^/.^, which arc very nearly in the ratio of -/?' I V^^ 
the curvature is very slight except for a short distance from the vertex ; so that 
the branches in fact sensibly coincide with their asymptotes. But near the vertex 
the curvature is very decided. 




ii 



j\r o.aRi:v: 



Fiff. 40. 



From what has been said, it will be 
evident that when the obstruction 
presents a salient angle insiead of a 
straight edge, the fringes will pass 
round the angle in circular arcs, instead 
of making an angle also. Ind(X'd, the 
systems of fringes around such an 
angle are surfaces of hyperboloids of 
revolution. In the case of re-eatering 
angles of 90"^ or less, the fringes cross 
each other without interference, and 
are continued up to the edge of the shadow on each side of the angle. These 
are easily seen to be necessary consequences of the theory of their formation. 
The annexed figux'c exhibits the phenomena. 

When the obstructing body is large, no f. inges are seen within the shadow. 
Some light strays beyond the geometrical boundary of the shadow, but it rapidly 
fades away, and produces no very sensible effects. If, however, a very narrow 
object be employed, the waves from opposite sides may mingle and interfere. 
In this case fringes or stripes will be seen wit/tin the shadoio. The light con- 
cerned in producing these fringes comes from the portion of the main wave 
which is c'ose to the obstruction, as the more distant parts of each half wave 
will hold each other in check in the manner heretofore exi)lained. Points being 

taken at a, b, c. a', b' , c', &c., such that the succes- 
sive differences of distance of these points from B 
may be ^X, we shall have, on each side, a series of 
resultant actions alternately positive and negative, as 
illustrated in the foregoing case, such as — 
-\-m — m'-\-m" — ml"-\-m"", &:c. 
And as the effect of any portion of this series, left 
by cutting oft' terms from the beginning, depends on 
the sign of the first of the remaining terms — that is 
to say, as the effect due to the first of these terms 
exceeds the joint effect of all that follow — it is evident that no part of the main 
wave can have anything to do with producing fringes in the shadow, ex- 
cept Qa and Aa' . And since there can be no fringes produced at all, unless 
the light from both sides reaches the same point, the centre of the shadow, Avhich 
is equidistant from the edges of the obstacle — that is, from the front of the 
main wave — must exhibit a light stripe. On each side of this will be found posi- 
tions, as for instance B', where the distances from A and C differ by half an 
undulation ; and here the darkness will be complete. At distances a little greater 
will be found positions where the differences of distance from A and C amount 
to an entire undulation; and here will be found once more bright stripes. If the 
object be very narrow, these interferences may occur not only throughout all 




176 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 



the shadow, hut to some distance into the light on each side. Should any evi- 
dence seem to he needed to confirm the theory on which the formation of these 
fringes has been explained, it may be found in the fact that if, by an interposed 
card, the light from one side of the opaque object be arrested, all the fringes 
will instantly disappear from the shadoAv. 

As for the form of the loci of these fringes in space, since each is determined 
by the intersection of radii from A and C, having a constant difference, they are 
necessarily hyperbolas, having A and C for their foci. But in this case it is the 
principal axis which is small, while the conjugate axis is comparatively very 
great ; so that the curves are widely open, having but slight curvature even at 
their vertices. 

Let B'A — li'C^ii X tp', n being any integral number, even or odd. It is 
evident, from the law of the hyperbola, that hd is the principal a xis of th e 
trajectory of B'., And, putting CA=c, the conjugate axis will be ^/ d^ — ^w^/^. 
Making this the axis of y, and the former the axis of x, the equation of the 
curve gives us — 

„ c^—hi^)? {nix 



y 



Suppressing the minute term \n'^f?' 
equation with respect to x, we obtain- 



(nlx „\ 



from the numerator, and reducing the 



4 



iy'' + ^)n'A^ 



[14.] 



According to the notation heretofore used, y, which is the distance of B from 
the object AC, may be replaced by s. Also c^, in the numerator under the 
radical, may be dropped without appreciable error, except when B is quite near 
to the object. The simplified expression will then be — 

snl 



d=—, which is the equation of a straight line. 



2c 



[15.j 



At any considerable distance from AC, therefore, as compared with AC, the 
hyperbolic trajectory sensibly coincides with the asymptote to the curve. In 
fact, the ecjuation of the asymptote being — 

, A , UX 



"B 



3/ — 



VrP. 



[16.] 



n"/. 



by rejecting the minute term under the radical, we obtain — 

^ nh/' snl 1 • 1 . . n . , -11 P 
x=^o^^ — ^=r-— ■ : which IS identical with the lormer. 
2c 2c 

By substituting different numerical values for n, this equation serves for all 
the fringes, light or dark. The even numbers give the loci of the bright stripes, 
and the' odd those of the dark. The distance <5 is in all cases measured from 
the middle of the central bright stripe. 

The expression for the value of o indicates, at sight, that the fringes Avill 
increase iu breadth, as the opaque intercepting object diminishes in diameter. 

In fact, '5 is inversely as c, and to double the 
breadth of the fringes, wo have only to r(!duce 
the diameter of the object one-half. Accord- 
ingly, if a tapering object, as a sewing needle, 
be employed, the fringes will spread out toward 
the top with a beautiful plumose appearance. 
This becomes still more striking when the taper 
is more rapid, as when we use an acute-angled 
^''g- ^2. or even a right-angled plate of thin metal. The 

fringes, which in this case are very remarkable, have been called Grimaldi's 
crests. 




DIFFEACTION BY MINUTE APERTUEES. 



1Y7 



FiL'. 43. 



The next case which presents itself is that in which a small portion of the 
wave only is allowed to pass through a narrow opening in the obstructing 
screen, having straight and parallel sides. In this case a position may be found 

for the screen B, in which, if UAB (Fig. 43) be 
drawn from the radiant through the centre of the 
aperture, Ba and Ba', drawn from B to the edges, 
may exceed BA by one-half an undulation. All 
lines drawn from B to points of the wave front 
nearer to A than a or a', will differ from BA less 
than half an undulation, and the point B will be 
fully enlightened. If then the screen B be advanced 
toAvard A, there Avill be found somewhere another 
position in which Ba and Ba' will exceed BA 
by an entire undulation. The spaces Aa, Aa', 
may then be divided somewhere, so that lines drawn from the points of 
division to B shall once more differ from BA by half an undulation. All the 
molecular movements excited at B by the segments next to A will then be in 
conflict with those which are generated by the segments next to a and a'; and accord- 
ingly in this position of B the middle of the luminous image will be occupied 
by a dark stripe. By advancing B still nearer, another point may be foiuid, 
where Ba and Ba' will differ from BA by three halves of an undulution ; and 
in this case the arcs Aa and Aa' may be divided each into three parts, such that 
the distances of the points of division from B may successively exceed each 
other by half an undulation. The pair next to a and the pair next to a' will 
then neutralize each other, while the central pair will be efficient, and the point 
B will be again iUuminated. Thus, by varying the distance of B from a, the 
dark stripe in the centre of the luminous image will alternately appear and dis- 
appear. It is obvious, however, that when the distance is found at which 
Ba — BA is exactly one-half an undulation, the dark stripe will not return at any 
greater distance. As the screen B approaches A, on the other hand, the entire 
bright image becomes filled up Avitli fringes, increasing in number, with the 
central one alternately dark and bright. It is also sufficiently remarkable and 
striking that if, when B is at the maximum distance producing a daik centre, a 
very narrow opacjue object be placed over the aperture, parallel to its edges, so 
as to intercept exactly one-half the light, leaving equal portions on each side of 
it to pass, the brightness of the centre will instantly return. It will disappear 
again when the opaque object is removed. When B is at other positions nearer 
to A, producing the dark centre, the restoration of central brightness will not 
necessarily take place on cutting out the central half of the beam ; but it may 
be effected by cutting out a portion which is somewhat more or less than half. 

In order to understand the conditions upon which this difference depends, we 
must consider that the dark stripe appears in the centre onlj^ Avhen Ba — BA is 
equal to an evc?i number of half undulations. But even numbers of two kinds, 
the crrn-Gxcn, and the odd-even. The evcn-Qvcn are all of them multiples of 
2 hy the ari linnet iral series of even nvmhers 2, 4, 6, &c. ; the oJcZ-even arc mnl- 
tij'lcs of 2 hy the odd numbers 1. .3. 5, &c. If, then, Ba — BA = ?? x^/'-, the light 
will be restored to the central dark stripe by stopping out the middle half of the 
beam, whenever n is an odd-even number ; and the interposed opaque body 
must exceed or fall short of half the breadth of the beam by the bieadtli of two, 
at least, of the divisions of the Avave front, (2?^ in all,) into which the space aa' 
id supposed, in the foregoing explanation, to be divided, in order to restore the 
brightness when n is an even-even number. We here assume the several divi- 



12 s 



178 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 




sions of the wave front to be equal in extent, wliicli is sufficiently exact for the 
purpose in view. The other dark stripes which form 
Avithin the bright image of the opening aa' arc sub- 
ject to fluctuations of intensity similar to those of the 
central one. To understand this, let i be a point so 
taken, that Z>«' — Z»a = >i. Join Z>R, and let the line 
ha revolve round V\.h to the position he. Then Z»(?= 
ha, and ha' — hc^^X. Divide ca' at d into parts, 
such that ha' — hd=y., and bd—hc^^?-. Then, so 
far as this portion of the wave is concerned, the 
point h will be obscure in every position of h which 
preserves this relation, whatever be the distance from 
A. Also, at any distance of h for which the divisions 
- Fig. 4-t. of the wave front ac, made as heretofore described, 

are an even number on each side of Rh, the whole effect of the wave at h will 
be null, and the point h Avill be obscure. But if the number of these divisions 
on each side of llh be an odd number, there will be a portion of the wave un- 
neutralized, and h Avill be illuminated. 

The fringes exterior to the bright image of the opening are more beautiful 
than those interior to it, being, especially when the aperture is very narrow, 
richly colored. They are not subject to the fluctuations of brightness, as the 
distance of 13 from the aperture varies, which attend the interior fringes ; since 
the lines ha and ha', drawn to any point in any of those fringes from a and a', 
the limits of the aperture, will be both on the same side of V\.h. 

The distances d from the central line B are all determined by the same 
equation Avliich was found for the fringes formed by a narrow opjiquc object. 
Indeed, the geometrical conditions in the present case are identically the same 
as those in that. '^Fhe optical difference is, that the even values of n give the 
loci of the dark stripes, and the odd those of the bright. The breadths yavj, 
as before, inversely as c, which is the diameter or Avidth of the aperture. With 
apparatus in A\'hich the opposed edges are moA^able, the expansion of the 
fringes, as these edges are made gradually to approach each other, is A^ery 
striking. When the aperture is a very slender isosceles triangle, they spread out 
Avidely toAvard the A-ertex. The expression, 

2c 

also shows that the breadth A-aries directly as the length of the undulation. In 
homogeneous light, therefore, the broadest fringes are obtained Avith red, and 
tlic narroAvest Avith Aiolet. In such light, a dozen or tAventy may easily be 
counted. When Avhite light is employed, the OA'erlapping of the colors, Avhile 
it improves the beauty of the display, reduces A'ery much the number that can 
be distinguished. When monochromatic light cannot conveniently be obtained, 
the same effects may be substantially produced by A'iewing the fringes made by 
white light through colored glasses. 

When, instead of a long and narrow aperture, a small circular opening in an 
opaque plate is used, the fringes are, of course, circular. In this case, the cen- 
tral dark stripe of the preceding experiment becomes a central dark round spot. 
This spot disappears and reappears as the screen is brought nearer the plate, at 
the same distances at Avhich this effect Avas observed in the -central stripe; in the 
image of the oblong aperture. Referring to the last figure, and regarding aa' 
as the diameter of the circular opeiiing, Avhen B« — BA=2x^A, there Avill be 
eome point bctAveen a and A (suppose a") Avhich, if joined to B, Avill give 
Ba" — BA=.y.. NoAv, it has been shown that B« — BA A\aries as y^; the radius 
of the aperture (or of the part of it considered) being represented by ?/. Hence, 
for the point supposed, a", we have Aa^=:A2a"^; or the circle of Avhich Aa is 



DIFFRACTION OF OPAQUE DISK. 17<) 

the radius, is double in area of tlie circle of which Aa" is the radius. But since 
Ba — I3a''^.y, and Ba" — BA=:^-A, it is obvious that the resultant molecular 
movement produced at B by the circle of Avhich Aa" is the radius, will be in 
total conflict with that produced at the same point by the portion ^)f wave front 
which forms the ring between this circle and the circumference of the orifice. It 
is this conflict Avhicli produces the dark spot at B. If now a small opaque disk 
could be introduced into the middle of the oriflce, exactly equal to the circle Aa", 
stopping out the central pencil of light, B would immediately become bright 
again. 

If Ba — BA3=4xP-, the circular aperture will be made up of a central 
circle and three concentric rings, of equal areas, producing movements at B 
alternately equal and opposite. B will accordingly be obscure. If we stop out 
now one-half the area in the middle — that is to say, the central circle and the 
first ring — B will still be obscure ; but if we stop out the central circle and the 
tico interior rings, the light au B will be restored. Or if Ave stop the central 
circle only, or, instead of that, the exterior ring, or (which is the same thing) 
apply over the aperture a smaller one, having only three-fourths the area of the 
first — in either case the light will be restored. But if we stop the central circle 
and the outer ring at the same time, B will remain obscure. 

Generally, if Ba — BA=?? X .y, n having any integral cve7i value, the centre 
of the bright image of the aperture will be dark. If n be odd-cvcn, stopping 
out one-half the area from the middle of the aperture will restore the light. If 
n be even-even, stopping out one-half the area will produce no change ; but the 
light may be restored by stopping a portion of the area Avhicli is by a certain 
amount greater, or by the same amount less, than one-half. In all these cases 
the light at the centre, when restored, will be sensibly equal in intensity to that 
which Avould reach B through an orifice of the size Avhich Avould give 
Ba"— BA=^A. 

This incidentally leads us to the remarkable result that if, in this experiment, 
instead of a circular aperture in an opaque plate, Ave employ an opaque disk 
attached to a transparent plate, 'the centre of the shadow Avill be as highly 
illuminated as it Avould be if the AvaA^e Avere not interrupted at all. For an open 
circle Avhose centre and circumference glA'e the relation Ba" — BA=.^A, and 
a ring whose exterior and interior circumferences give Ba — V)(.J''^=hK pro- 
duce sensibly the same illumination at B. In either case all the remaining ob- 
structed portion of the Avave exterior to them may be diAnded into rings, Avliose 
relation to the unobstructed part will be alternately negative and positive, 
and Avhose total resultant (Avhich takes the sign of the first term) will be op- 
posed to that of the unobstructed portion. If then this exterior portion be 
alloAved to pass, the etiect, in either case equally. Avill be someAvhat to diminish 
the intensity of the brightness at B, which brightness therefore Avill still remain 
equal for the circle and for the ring. But in the first instance, this is to alloAv 
the entire wave to pass; Avhile in the second it IcaA-es the disk. The centre of 
the shadov/ of the disk, therefore, Avhich is the point B, is as much illuminated 
as the same point is Avhen the Ava\'e is Avholly unobstructed. This curious cir- 
cumstance, Avh'.ch Avas first announced by Poisson from theoretic considerations, 
is easily verified by experiment. 

When it is said that an open circle Avhich gives at its centre and its circum- 
ference the relation Ba" — BA=?i!X.y-, or a ring of Avhich the outer and inner 
circumferences furnish a similar relation, will exhibit a dark spot at B whene\^er 
n is an integral even niunber, it must be remembered that this proposition is 
true only of the rays AAdiose undulation length is A. If I is the undulation length 
of the red rays, and >J that of the blue or violet, then at the distance at Avhich 
red disappears, the blue or violet will not be entirely suppressed. We have 



180 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 



(r-i-s) 
seen that Ba" — BA bus a value expressed by the formula h=— — -y^,yhGmgihe 



radius of the circle 



This may be resolved into the parts, 
2r 2s 



of which the first is constant when y is constant, and the second varies inversely 
as s, which is the distance B A. The less the value of k ( --=^7t X h^-), the greater 
will be the distance at which the color corresponding to A will be suppressed. 
And as the color which remains is the difierence between the color suppressed 
and white, it folloAvs that, as the eye approaches A, in the line BA, the ring or 
the aperture will assume successively all the tints of the spectrum from red up- 
ward, and that this series may be several times repeated. Moreover, putting X 
for the length of the red, and X' for the mean length of imdulation in the com- 
pound color complementary to red, which will correspond nearly to the wave 
length in the green, when Ba" — BA=(2?i-j-l) X^x' <(2»+l) x ^ X, a point b 
may be found on any side of A, but very near it, at which ba" — bA-z^{2n+l)x^X. 
A green circle will therefore appear surrounding A, Avhile A itself, whclher 
it be an aperture or a ring, will be red. Also, at other distances, greater or less, 
circles of other tints will appear; so that the ring or aperture will be encircled by 
a corona displaying all the prismatic colors, from i-ed to violet, shading outward. 
As the eye approaches A, the equation ba' — bA=i{2n+l)xhX will be true of 
points nearer and nearer to B, until b and B coincide. The rings will therefore 
appear to be successively absorbed into the aperture. In withdrawing the eye, they 
will seem to be, in like manner, evolved out of it. In this experiment the aperture 
should be very small or the ring very narrow, in order that the tints may be vivid. 
It will readily be understood that the obscurity and the sharp edges of shadows 
of bodies of considerable size are owing to the smallness of the values of X for 
all the rays of light. On this account, if any point be taken within the line of 
the geometrical shadow, and if the wave Iront, beginning at the edge of the 
opaque body, be divided into portions whose extremes are remote from that 
point by distances differing AX, these portions Avill neutralize each other'8 effects, 
except for positions of the assumed point for which the divisions have (as they 
may near the shadowing body) some slight inequality, and no material obliquity. 
Such positions can only be found very near the line of the geometrical shadow. 

To the same cause it is owing that, in 
refraction and reflection, tho beam re- 
fracted or reflected is as sharply defined 
as the incident beam. The demonstration 
which we have given of these efi\'Cts, from 



Huyghens, contains an imperfection on 
this point, which Fresnel has supplied. 
Referring to the figure, suppose that an 
undulation originating at B should take 
the direction B/c, different from that of 
the main reflected wave, BQ'. There 
will always be found, to the left of B, a 
point, as n, from which another undulation will follow in the parallel and nearly 
coincident line nk, differing from the first by half an undulation. Draw 710 per- 
pendicular to BB' and B^ perpendicular to nh; o?iB is the angle of incidcnce=j. 
Putp for nBt. Then Bo=B« sint, and 7it:^Bn.s\np. 

Now, when the wave whose front is Bt starts from «, the movement which is 
to produce the wave from B is at o. There will accordingly be interference, if 
tU — Bo=^A; that is, if B/z.(sino — sinO^^'i- But since X is very small, if sin^ 
sensibly exceed sin;, Bn will be very small; showing that interference will 
take place from a point very near B. As sin/j approaches sinr, the distance of 
the origin of the interfering wave will be greater; but there will be an interfering 




DIFFRACTION OF GRATINGS. 



181 



wave, (if the surface AB is milimited,) iu every case except that in which 
sin^=siu c ■ that is, in Avhich Bk coincides in direction with the regularly re- 
flected wave. 

In like manner, in the case of refraction, if we suppose a wave to diverge in 
the direction Br, draw nq parallel to Br and Bp perpendicular to it. Call the 
angle nBp, p, as before. Then Bo^Bn.s'mt, and n2:i^^Bn.i<'mf>. But np being 
the path of a wave in th(! denser medium, it must be multiplied by the. index of 
refraction, iu order to obtain the equivaleiit distance, or dhtance which the tcave 
would have moved in the same time, in the rarer. Let n be the index of re- 
fraction, and we have, for the condition of interference, B«.(7?.sin,o — sin£)=.^/l. 
If n^i\\<> is sensibly greater than siut, Bn must be very small. And for any 
value of n^mp — siuf, there will be a distance Bn furnishing a wave of inter- 
ference, if the surfece AB is unlimited; except only for the value n^mp — sin.'=0, 
when the ray Br ceases to diverge from the direction of the main refracted wave. 
These reasonings assume that the forces of the elementary derivative waves 
are the same in all directions. But it is probable that these forces are less in 
lines oblique to the direction of progress of the primitive wave than in that di- 
rection. How far this is true could be easily investigated experimentally, by 
employing apertures less than the length of a half undulation in diameter, were 
it not that the extreme minuteness of such apertures (the mean length of a half 
undulation not exceeding one one-hundred-thousaiidth of an inch) would render 
the light too feeble for the purpose. 

Some material for the formation of an opinion on this subject may, however, 
be gathered from certain phenomena of diffraction first observed by Fraunhofer, 
more remarkable and more brilliant than any which have been thus far men- 
tioned. If a single very minute aperture will not furnish light enough for 
experiment, an assemblage of very many very minute apertures, closely grouped, 
may do so; and if these be so arranged that, for any determinate point in the 
shadow, they feihall allow only such portions of the wave front to pass as conspire 
in their effects at that point, while the intervals between them obstruct those 
portions which conflict, we shall possibly find that the tendency of a wave 
originating in a single molecular impulse to expand equally in all directions, is 
much more decided than had been supposed. Fraunhofer's original experiments 
were made with gratings formed by stretching an exceedingly fine wire across 
two parallel screws of a great number of threads to the inch — the threads 
serving to keep the wires equidistant. He subsequently employed gratings 
formed by cementing leaves of gold to glass and. cutting them through in very 
fine parallel lines ruled with a sharp instrument. Instead of these, also, he 
employed similar lines ruled with a diamond on glass itself. 

The results of such an arrangement may easily bo predicted. The image of 
an aperture closed by such a grating will appear bright, as though the obstruction 
were not interposed. But toward either side, in the direction perpendicular to the 
lines of the grating, will be found several points for which the part of the wave 
which the grating obstructs v,^ould if allowed to pass be more or less in conflict with 
those which it transmits ; and which, therefore, arc bright when the grating is pres- 
ent, and dark when it is absent. Suppose, for simplicity, that the open spaces and 

tlie opaque bars are equal in breadth. Let 
a, a, a, represent several of these open spaces, 
and b, b, b, &c., the intermediate bars. A 
point, P, may be found from which lines being 
drawn as in the iigure, and perpendiculars let; 
fall upon them from the edges of the aper- 
tures, as at c, c, d, d, will give cd =^ 1,1, 
db = U, and therefore cb = ?.. The distances 
from P to the corresponding parts of the sev- 
eral openings Avill thus differ by an entire un- 
waves which reach P through them will be in harmony. 




182 UNDULATOEY THEORY Of LIGHT. 

The distances from P to tlie corrcspoiuliiig parts of the obstructing- bars will 
difier from the distances to the adjacent openings by half an undulation; and, 
accordingly, if the bars were removed, the wave -which would proceed from those 
points Avould neutralize the efiects of the former : but being obstructed, P remains 
illuminated by the resultant effect of all the first set of waves. 

Furthermore, since the position of P is determined by the condition that ch 
sliall be the length of an undulation, it will be necessary to take P further from 
B for the longer undulations and nearer for the shorter. The different colors 
will thus be separated, and a perfect spectrum will be formed on the screen. 

Should the point P be taken so that ch is equal to two undulations, there will 
be no spectrum: for in this case cd wilLbe equal to one undulation, and as in 
the cases we have considered of a single aperture, one-half of cacli opening, a, 
will hold in check the other half. If we find still another point -where be is 
equal to three iindiilations, then cd will equal one undulation and a half; two- 
tliirds of each ojoening will then be neutralized, but the remaining third will lie 
effective ; and there will be another spectrum, but less brilliant than the first. 
If he z= four undulations, the spectrum will again fail. If he z=i oX it will rt'turn, 
and so on. 

If the bars are broader than the open spaces, there will, be a spectrum for 
hc^ii^nl, 11 being any integral number; until the light is too feeble, or until 
cd =: r^X, n' being also any integral numbci-. If the spaces arc broader than the 
bars, there will be a spectrum for every integral value of « in Zr.—^^A until 

n^:^-——, [a and h standing for the breadths of the spaces and bars severally.) 
If, however, -"!"— is not integral, take ^ =: the greatest common measure of a 

and h. Then n z=: —^ will give the number of the first spectrum which Avill fail . 

Put this value of n equal to ?«, and we may say generally that the mth spectrum 
will fail, and also the mnih, n being, as before, any integral number. If a and 
h are incommensurable, there could be theoretically no perfect spectra, or spectra 
of maximum brilliancy; nor would any spectrum absolutely faiJ: but a near 
approach to failure would occur for approximate values of q. All these propo- 
sitions result so obviously from the construction above given, that they require no 
demonstration. 

The same construction indicates a simple expression for the deviation of each 
spectrum from the directioii'* JlS, of the radius of the original wave. For re}i- 
resenting this deviation by (">, we have — 

sni',= [17. 

Putting ??:rz 1, A =:: one fifty-thousandth of an inch, the length of the mean 
undulation, and supposing one thousand opaque lines to the iuch, the formula 
gives us, by substitution, sin'j=i0.02=zsin I^ 9'. As the sines of small angles 
are very nearly proportional to the angles themselves, the deviations of the suc- 
ceeding spectra will be nearly the tlouble, triple, 6:c., of this. And as the' de- 
nominator, a-\-h, is the reciprocal of the number of lines to the unit of ineasure- 
nient to which X has been referred — in this case to the inch — it is evident that 
the sines of the deviations Avill increase directly as this number. With five 
thousand lines to the inch, the fifth spectrum will have a deviation of thirty 
degrees. The force of the derivative v/aves from minute apertures tlius appears 
to be great even at large obliquities, when the obstructing effects of interference 
are removed. 

In the above expression for siu'?, if « be put equal to 1, and a\-h equal to X, 



COLORS OF THIN PLATES. 183 

siu5 is unity, indicating a deviation of 90^. A grating, llicrerorc, in Avliicli the 
number of lines to the inch is equal to the number of unduLutions in the same 
space, will produce no spectra. The same is true, a Jhrtlvri, of still liner 
gratings 

The s])ectra formed in this way by diffraction will easily be understood to 
form the best of all possible measures of the lengths of the undulations corres- 
ponding to the different colors. They exhibit very distinctly the principal lines 
of Fraunhofer; and these lines, as might be inferred as a theoretical necessity, 
preserve invariably the same relative distances from each other. The spectra 
formed by refraction afford measures, not of the relative lengths of the undula- 
tions in vacuo, but of those lengths as modified by the media of which the 
refracting bodies are composed. Apparently these modifications are not simply 
proportional to the lengths of the undulations. Mr. (Jauchy's investigations 
upon dispersion shovv, as we have seen, that they ought not to be. 

Light rrjlected from finely ruled surfaces exhibits colors, as well as that which 
is transmitted through them. These effects arc produced by interference, and 
are explained upon principles analogous to those we have been considering. 
Some substances are naturally marked with sinuosities which produce these 
effects. A familiar example of this kind is seen in mother of pearl. Sir David 
Brewster found that an impression of the polished surface of this material taken 
in wax, exhibited the same colors as the substance itself. 

The effects produced by diffraction may be endlessly varied, by emjdoying 
(instead of gratings) reticulations, and groups of apertures, of various ffgures, 
symmetrically disposed. Many of the phenomena arc exceedingly rich and 
beautiful. We must content ourselves with the examples which have been 
given, and which illustrate the general principles on which they all depend. 

^ VI. COLOKS OF THIN PLxVTES. 

We will now proceed, very briefly, to apply the tlieory of undulation to the 
explanation of the colors seen in thin transparent plates ; or, as they arc com- 
monly called, Newton's rings. These, when seen by reflected light, arc caused 
by the interference of the wave which proceeds from the lower surface of the 
plate with that which is reflected by the up])cr. Let us suppose, at first, for 
simplicity, that the light employed is homogeneous. Where the dark rings 
occur, there must be a dififereuce of path between the interfering waves, of one- 
half an undulation. Now the wave which is reflected from the lower surface, 
passes through the thin plate twice ; and that which is reflected from the upper 
surface does not enter the })late. • The difference of path is therefore twice 
the thickness of the plate ; and this ought apparently to be equal to half an un- 
dulation, or to some uneven multiple of half an undulation. Let represent 
the thickness, and n any integral number; then — 

26'-— (2«+l)Xi!.'^^ : and when n=Q, 20^^h,L or 0=^^).. 

It should seem, accordingly, that the first dark ring should appear, Avhere the 
thickness is equal to one-quarter of the length of an undulation. As the thickness 
increases toward cy^r--.];., or diminishes toward 0^0, the light should gradually 
appear ; and when either of these va'ues is reached, wo should have the maxiniun of 
brightness. The centre of the system should then be bright. It is not so, hoAv- 
ever, but on the other liand is entirely dark. The reason of this apparent dis- 
cordance with theory will be understood, when wc recall the circumstance, 
thus far disregarded, that the reflection at the lower surface takes place as 
the ray is proceeding from a rarer to a denser medium ; while that at the 
first surface occurs as the ray is passing from a denser and to a rarer. 
It has been already shown that, in the latter of these cases, the molecular move- 
ments maintain their original directions ; while in the former, these movements 



184 UNDULATOIiY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

arc reversed. But to revor.se the molecular movements of a wave is to change 
its phase half an undiilation. Accordiijg-ly, at the points where 0=^X, and 
where the dij'crcnce of path is ^A, the difference of phase is ^/^.-f ^/.=A. This 
thickness should accordingly give a bright ring, and not a dark one; and so it 
is in fact observed to do. 

If there could be any hesitation about receiving this explanation of the 
phenomenon, it may be entirely removed by considering the following two 
experiments. ]\L-. Babinet having produced, by means of Fresnel's mirrors, the 
fringes of interference already described, received the interfering pencils upon 
a glass minor, of which one half was transparent and the other half silvered 
on the back. The reflected pencils, thrown upon a screcn,~ still exhibited the 
fringes. When both the pencils were reflected from the silvered part of the • 
mirror, or both from the transparent part, the fringe in the middle continued to 
be bright, as in Fresnel's original experiment. But when one of the pencils 
Avas reflected from the transparent glass and the other from the metal, the middle 
fringe became immediately dark. The other experiment alhided to consists in 
introducing between the two lenses, in Newton's experiment, a fluid having a 
refracting power intermediate between that of the upper and that of the lower 
glass. With a crown glass above, having the index 1.5, and a flint glass beneath, 
with the index 1.575, the oil of sassafras (index 1.53) or that of cloves (index 
1.5o9) introduced between will convert the dark rings into bright ones, and vice 
versa. In this case the rays, at both surfaces alike, arc passing from a rarer to 
a denser medium. 

When the rings are viewed by oblique light the undulatory theory requires 
that their apparent magnitudes should be governed by the following law. If 

MM' be the upper of two glass plates, Avith par- 
allel surfaces, enclosing a lamina of air between 
them, and if IPQSTVH be the path of a ray 
incident obliquely at P, and reflected at the lower 
surface of the lamina at the point S, this will fall 

in at T with another, reflected from the upper 

P,v 4(3 surface at T, Avhose path is NOTVIi. When 

the flrst is at P the other is at N, in P N, drawn 
from P perpendicularly to NO. These two have the same length of path in 
the medium MM'. Their difi'ercnce of path will therefore be QS + ST — NO, 
or 2ST — NO. As the angle NPO is equal to the angle of incidence (which 
put =;^ :, ) and also KST, we shall have — 

2ST= , and NO=OPsin.'=QTsin.'=2tftan:sin.'=2^'^^. 

cos: cos: 

Hence 2^1 -^0=2o(^~^^\—ZOcQ%i. 
\ cos: / 

But in order that there may be interference, this difference of path must be a 
multiple of half an undulation. Hence — 

jl;. 
2^cos;=/7xy, or 0=7i--^=nx\A.^(iCt. [18.1 

cos: 

In which n is an odd number for the bright rings and an even number for the 
dark. At oblique incidences, therefore, the thickness at Avliich a given ring 
appears is greater than at a perpendicular incidence, in the ratio of the secant 
of incidence to unity, or in the inverse ratio of the cosine of incidence to unity. 
But this is the law which observation had established before the theory of 
undulation had indicated its necessity. 

There is still one point to be attended to before the theory of the ])henomenou 
is complete. The dark rings, as seen by reflection in homogeneous light, are 
ahsolutdy dark, showiuir that the interference is total. But the amount of light 




COLORS OF THIN PLATES. 185 

in the two conflicting rays ought to bo equal in order to produce this cff:;ct. Now, 
if we af-Humo (what Avill hereafter be proved) that llie amount of h'glit reflected 
at cither surface is in a constant ratio to the amount of light incident upon it, 
when the angle of incidence and the index of refraction are themselves Constant, 
we shall perceive that the ray which emerges after one reflection at the lower 
surface is feebler than that which is reflected at the upper: for the light incident 
upon the lower is already enfeebled by the loss at the upper, and the reflected 
ray is again diminished by the second reflection which occurs at its emergence 
through the upper. But the light which is thus turned back at the upper surface 
is again reflected at the lower, and at its return another portion emerges through 
the upper. A series of reflections thus goes on between the two surfaces, each 
one contributing to strengthen the emergent ray ; and the resultant of all these 
contributions is to bring the ray from the lower surface, in the end, up to exact 
equality with that which is originally reflected from the upper without entering 
the lamina. This will appear to be rigidly true if we consider the following 
statement. The intensity of light is measured by the living force which ani- 
mates the mass of ether in which the molecular movements are going on. Let 
the masses in the two adjacent strata of the two media v/hich act upon each 
other be distinguished by the letters m for the denser and m' for the rarer. Now 
it is true (as v/ill hereafter be proved) that the velocity of molecular movement 
in a wave reflected from the separating surface of two given media, at a given 
incidence, bears a detenninate ratio to the molecular velocity in the incident wave. 
Let this be represented by th(; ratio v \ 1, the incident velocity being unity. 
Then the living force of the reflected wave will be viv^, and that which passes 
into the other mc^dium and forms the transmitted wave will be m{\ — r^). Ac- 

on 
cordingly -/l — v") is the square of the molecular velocity in the transmitted 

w^avc. Let it be represented by i^. 

By reflection at the second surface, u becomes vu, and this, by another rc-flec- 
tion of the returning wave at the first surfoce, becomes v^u. From tlie living 
force of the wave returning from the second surface subtract the living force 
which it loses by the second reflection at the first, and the remainder, which is 
the living force transmitted through the first surface, will be vi' 6h^ {\.-~i^). 

And this, divided b}' the mass m, gives — v^u^ (l—v^) for the square of the first 

m 

component of the molecular velocity in the wave which reaches the eye from the 

second surfiice. In like manner v^u becomes v''u by second reflection at the 

second surface ; and v^u becomes vf^u by the succeeding reflection at the first 

surface. And the expression for the square of the second component of the 

molecular velocity we are seeking, vrill be — ifii" (1 — t^). The next term will 
m' ,/ m ^ ' ■ 

ho — v^'^u^ {\~xr)\ and from a comparison of these three the law is evident. 
m 

By substituting the value of a^, taking the square roots of these sqiiares and 

making their sura, which is the resultant molecular velocity of the vrave emergent 

from the second surface, equal to i^ , we shall obtain — 

-2; 

The sum of the series in parentheses is —^ . Hence t»'=?;, or the reflected 

v'' — 1 
velocities, and consequently the intensities, of the waves reflected from the 
two surfaces, are equal. 

It is assumed in the foregoing that all these components agree in phase. But 
this is evidently true at the points where the dark rings, as seen by reflection, 
appear. For at these points the first return wave from the lower surface is in 



18G UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

confliGt with the HclvaDciug wave, which it meets at the first surface. This 
advancing wave does not change its phase by refraction, but the reflected part 
of the return wave does so, and is therefore in harmony wnth the advancing 
wave Avhich it joins. The two accordingly conspire from tliat time forward; 
their emergent portions at the second surface producing a bright ring by trans- 
mitted light, while their reflected portions, returning to the firtt surfiice, conflict 
with the next advancing wave which they meet there. 

But at the points where the bright reflected rings appear, the case is different. 
The return wave is in harmony with the advancing w^ave which it meets at the 
first surface, and its emergent part conspires with the reflected part of the 
advancing wave. But its reflected part, losing half an undulation, conflicts with 
the transmitted part of the advancing wave, and thus produces, by subsequent 
transmission through the second surface, a ring parti.dly obscure, but not entirely 
so, from the great inequality of the conflicting molecular velocities. If avc 
disregard the successive advancing weaves, and consider the successive values of 
the terms m, f'u, i^u, &c., at these points, ]n-oceediug from a single original 
Avave, we shall fuid them alternately positive and negative. Their emergent parts 
must be so likewise. And since they are decreasing, their sum takes the sign 
of the first term, which is positive ; so that their resultant conspires with the 
wave reflected to the eye from the first surface. The components, simultaneously 
reflected to the second surface from the -first, form a similar series with signs 
reversed, and therefore have a negative resultant, conflicting Avitli the wave 
emcr":ent at that surfiice.* 



* This matter may perhaps be made more clear as follows : 

Callinf^, as above, u the value of the molecular movement in the ray transmHted through 
the first surface, and v the ratio of reflected to incident light, the advancing and returning 
waves within the lamina will have the successive molecular velocities — 

1. Advancing wave, ?/, t-it, v^u, v'''u, v^n, &c. 

2. Returning wave, vn, r^it, v-'ii, v'u, &c. 

And the squares of the velocities of the emergent comijonents will be — 

til' til' tti' lU 

1st surface, — (v-ii- — f'w-), — (v^'ii- — tfu-), — (r"'H' — c'-h-), — (r'-'if- — v^'^'u"), &c. 
in 111 rn m 

n-i-ij ?// ??t 'ill 

2d surface, — vu" — r-«-1, — (i:''«- — 1""«-), —i'c^u- — ?;'"«-), — {v^-iC- — c'-tw-^), &c. 
m '• m m m 

Consider the movement in the incident -wave to be positive. Then if the lamina were 
without thickness, the successive reflections still going on, the sign of the movement in the 
diminished waves successively emergent would be always positive for the second surface, 
(for which the number of reversals by reflection is always even, ) and always negative for the 
first, (for whiclr the number of similar reversals is always odd.) 

By giving greater or less thickness to the lamina, any diliereuce of path may be introduced 
for cither the rays seen by reflection or those seen by transmission. ]f 6 represent the thick- 
ness, the differences of path which Aviil exist, after the several successive reflections, will be 
2d, W, (if, or generally Mm6, m being any integral number. If (J=7tXP-, or 20=2nXi'^=n'A, 
n being also any integral number, it is manifest that 2in6=mn?,, being a number of complete 
undulations, cannot change the sign of the movement, whether m be even or odd. 

But if 2(/=(-2«-|-])X-J-A, then 2md=m(2n-\-l) Xp^ will be an odd number of half undula- 
tions when m is odd, and an even number of half undulations, or an integral number of 
complete undirlations, when m is even. Accordingly, the wave changes its sign for every 
odd value of m. 

Hence, if 2()=ii?.; or 0=nXi-^, the movement will be negative for all component waves 
emergent from the first surface, and positive for all emergent from the second. 

Also, for 20=^{2)i-\-\)Xi/^, or (?=(2»j+1)XJ^, the signs will be alternately positive and 
negative at the first surface, and negative and positive at the second. 

For the first case, if we take the square roots of the scpiares of the' emergent components 
given above, substituting the value of u, Ave shall have for the resultant v' at the first surface, 

v'={'i}- — l).(v-]-c^-\-v'^ ad inf.) Whence v'= — v. 

The interference is therefore absolute, and the rings formed at these thicknesses will be per- 
fectly darli. 

For the rays emergent at the second surface Ave obtain the expression — 

u'={l—v-).{i+v--{-v^....adiiif.)={l—v-).^^-^=l. 



COLOKS OF THICK TLATES. 187 

In these explanations wc have isupposcd the incidence pcrpenclicular, and 
have regarded the faces of the laminae as parallel. In the case of Newton's 
rings, neither of these snppositions is usually true ; and the second can never 
be so. The inclination of the faces is not, however, great enough sensibly to 
aifect the conclusions. In the case of oblique incidence, it is obvious that no 
ray reflected from the second surface can return to the same point of the first 
surface (supposed parallel) at which it entered. But the loss occasioned by 
this deviation is made good by the reflected component of some other ray 
parallel to the first, in the plane of incidence and on the other side of it rela- 
tively to tl:o point of emergence. 

It will thus be seen that the colors of thin plates, for which, on the theory of 
emission, it is difficult to assign a cause which docs not introduce as many dif- 
ficulties as it removes, arc all necessary consequences, on the undulatory theory, 
of the simple principle of interference. The hypothesis devised by Newton to 
account for them has not been presented, since it is now generally abandoned, 
and the limits of these lectures would not allow its introduction. 

The colors of thick plates, of which some examples were noticed in the intro- 
ductory lecture, depend on causes similar to those above explained. In the 
case iKustrated in Fig. 8, whicli we here introduce again for the sake of the 
explanation, if the light entering at o be composed of rayrf 
perfectly parallel, and be rciurned from the spherical sil- 
vered glass mirror, by a perfect specular reflection, to the 
perforated screen c, placed at the centre of curvature, it 
will all of it pass through the perforation toward o, and 
no rings will appear ; or at least only such as might be 
due to the diffraction of the aperture, very much eniecbled 
by the reflection. But if the first surface of the glass bo 
imperfectly polished, the specular reflection will not be perfect, but there will 
be a reflected cone of scattered light at the first incidence. This has nothing 
to do with the phenomenon. There will, however, be also a transmitted cone 
of scattered light, which will become at the second surface a reflected cone, 
having a virtual apex behind the mirror. Moreover, the light transmitted and 
subsequently reflected regularly, will, at its emergence after reflection, form a 
second scattered cone, the rays of which will have a virtual origin behind the 
mirror, though the apex of this cone is at the first surface. The condition of 
the light of these two cones is easily seen to be such as to produce interference; 
hence the formation of the rings observed in the experiment. 




Fi-. 8. 



TLcat is to say, the brightness of these trausmitted viiags^is eqiial to that of the incident light. 
In the second case, the equation ibr the tirst svuface is, 

z'=^{\ — f2).(t; — i;3-)-c5 — rP ad inf.) 

This may be separated into two equations, thus : 

I'ut v'^w-\-tc' . 

Also jc=(l— »2).(j,+r5-fi-n-f-i,i^...fl^ h)f.) 

And id'={V^—1).{v"-\-v'-\-c'^'^-{-v^^ ad inf. ) 

^ , — r« -, , , , {i—v') 

Themc^-^^; ^^''- :qrr ' "^d u•^-^. =. -..^^-_^-^^. 

This value is positive, and shows that the rings by reflection at these thicknesses \vill be 
bright. 

At the second surface, for the same thicknesses, we shall have, 
u'—{l— €-).{]— v''~-\-o-^—c'^ - .. -ud inf.). 
And, bv proceeding as before, 

Showing that the rings seen at those thicknesses by transmitted light are obscure, but not 
dark, because m', which embraces all the light trtmsmitted, has still a value. 



188 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 




In the otlier case, it will be observed that the rays I and I' undergo repeated 
reflections between the surfaces of the plates — a 
portion of the light escaping and being ti'ansmitted 
at each reflection. If the plates are of perfectly 
equal thickness and all the surfaces perfectly par- 
allel, there will be no interference. Suppose, how- 
ever, that one of them is slightly thicker than the 
other. Then, if we attend first to the transmitted 
rays, T, T', we shall see that the path of T, after 
incidence and up to final emergence, is made up of 
three times the thickness of the first plate, once 
the thickness of the second, and once the distance between the plates. Put d 
for the first thickness, 0' for the second, d for the distance between, and L for 
the length of path. Then — 

Tracing back T' in the same way, and denoting its length of path by L', we 
have — 

Hence 'L'—L=2{0'—0). 

And when this value is so small as to be comparable to the absolute thicknesses 
which produce the colors of Newton's rings, similar colors may be seen here. 

If we attend to the reflected rays R and R', we shall see (employing the same 
notation as before) that — 

V—2()+20'+28. 
Hence L'— L=2 {O'—O), as before. 

It will be noticed that there are other rays, as r and t, which do not form tints, 
their difiereuces of path, as compared with R, R', or with T, T', being too great. 



§. VII —POLARIZATION BY REFLECTION AND BY REFRACTION. 

We will now proceed to give a physical theory of the phenomenon called 
polarization of light, and of its production by reflection and refraction. It has 
already been hinted that the phenomenon itself consists in the determination of 
the molecular movements in the succession of undulations which constitutes a 
ray or beam of light, to one constant azimuth, or definite direction in space ; 
those which exist in common light being distributed impartially through all 
azimuths. In order to simplify tlie problem of the influence of reflection upon 
molecular movement Mr. Fresnel commenced this investigation by consider- 
ing first the case of a wave polarized already in the plane of incidence. In 
such a wave the molecular movements arc (for reasons which will appear here- 
after) presumed to take place in a plane whch is at right angles to the i)lane oj 
'polarization. At the reflecting surface, they are therefore coincident with the 
surface itself. If the ray is passing from a medium of less refracting power 
into one of greater, we must suppose that the ether possesses either a ditterent 
elasticity, or a different density, or both, in the two media. Mr. Fresnel assumed 
a difference of density without a difference of elasticity. He assumed, secondly, 
that in the common surface or stratum bounding the media, the movements 
parallel to the surface are common to both media, so that the components of 
velocity in the incident and reflected wave, parallel to the surface of reflection, 
are together equal to the component of velocity in the transmitted wave parallel 
to the same surface. Or, if unity represent the incident molecular velocity, v 




POLARIZATION BY REFLECTION. 189 

that of the reflected wave, and u that of the transmitted wave, we sliall have 
the equation, l-]rv^=u. 

With these suppositions let le, Ic be the; bounding 
limits of a mass of the ether, along which an undulation 
moves, meeting the reflecting surface; J\IN in cc. Let 
f.'R, pR' be the limits of the reflected undtilation, and 
rT, t'T' those of the transmitted undulatinn. Draw 
<h, cf perpendicular to \c, tT. Let c(] be \\m length 
of the incident, and eh that of the transmitted undu- 
lation. Draw ad, gh parallel to ch, ef, respectively. 
We may regard the incident undulation as a mass 
whose bulk is the prism ahcAl, and density o, impinging upon a mass whose bulk 
is cfgh, and density o' . Since the molecular movements in this case are in the 
the common surface of the media, the breadths of the prisms, according to the 
second assumption foregoing, are equal to each other. Their lengths will be k 
and /', and their depths be and I'f. Or, putting m and m' for their masses, 
m \m>:\ bcX^x'^ • tfx^' X^' Now, the wave lengths are proportional to the 
velocities of progress of the wave in the two media, (which we may denote by 
V and y.) Hence, if we put i for the angle of incidence, and p for the angle 
of refraction, we shall have, A : A' :: V : V : : sin: : siu/3. Also, erbz=z'., and 
• ef-=p; from which we derive Z»c:=6-c.cosj, and cf=ce.cos^p. And substituting — 

m : m' :: sin:cos:.(J : sinpcosp.d'. 

But, in the propagation of tremors through elastic media, the velocity of pro- 
gress is directly as the square root of the elasticity, and inversely as the square 

root of the density. Or, putting £ for the elasticity, V^=-, and V'^=: ^,, £ be- 
ing constant. Accordingly — 

^■' ^' '•' v2 * \rr2 ' ^^^' ^^y substitution, 

^ sin;cos£ ampco^p sin.'cosf smpcoBp cose cosjo 

V V sm'': siw^p sm: smp 

Now the living force in the reflected and transmitted waves must be equal to 
the living force in the incident ; or — 

mxl"^?nxv^ + ?n'xu'^; that is, 

cose COS£ „ COBp „ /HO cos: COS/) . 

—. — = ——v^+ .~-u^; or, {\ — v'').'-r- =^ -r-^iif. 
sm: szn: snxp sm: sm/> 

From this, with the equation previously given, «= 1 + y, we obtain, by elim- 
ination, 

If, in order to embrace in the formula only the angle of incidence, we elimi- 
nate p from the foregoing by means of the equation sin:=Ksin/), we shall obtain — 

(\/«2-sin2:— co3;\2 / 2cos: \2 . , . . , 

— — ^^ — ) , and M^— I . j . [:31.J ['2e.J 
v«"^— sin^: + cos:/ \ v ra^— sint + cos:/ 

When the incidence is perpendicular, : = 0^, sin: = 0, and cos: = 1. lu this 

case, Z/'^=f — - B 5 ^^^ w^=| | . 

The intensity of light is measured by the living force of the molecular move- 
ments, or by the mass multiplied by the square of the velocity. As the mas» 



190 UNSULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

is the same for the incident and reflected waves, their intensities are as 1^ and 
v'^. When Ave compare the transmitted with the incident or reflected waves, we 

must consider the masses. By mnltiplyin,'^" y ^ by — —, and v? by • — ~-, their 

snit sin« 

sum will be found equal to — —, Avhich is raXl^ or the living- foi'ce of the 

sm; 

incident wave. 

For iK'ri)endicular incidence m=z — ^ and m':= — — become infinite: but their 

sni: • sni,o 

ratio remains finite ; and as they are not expressions for the absolute values of 

the masses, but only of their relative values, their ratio only is needed. By 

replacing sin: by its equivalent ?zsin/>, we have — 

cost cos/3 cos: 
m : m : : — : — : - . : : - : cos/> : : cos: : 7icoBp ; 
nsiup sin,o n 

which, when cos:=cosO^=:cos/?=l, gives m : m' : : 1 : n. And the sum of the 

intensities at perpendicular incidence is — 

lxv- + nxu-= ~~{+ ^ =-^—- = 1 = 1x1-, 

which is the intensity of the incident wave. 

If now we consider the general value of v^, given above, we shall see that v 
increases with the increase of the angle of incidence, and becomes equal to the 
total molecular velocity of the incident wave, when :=:90'^. For, at this inci- 
dence, sin^::=^l, and cos:=:.0. Hence — 



( 



8=1; and w ^= 0. 



For intermediate incidence, we may transform the expression thus 

V [n^—\.) +cos^: — cos: 

V [n^— 1 ) + cos^: + cos:- 

The value of the radical diminishes Avith the increase of the incidence ; but 
it diminishes less rapidly than cos:. For, the form of a binomial square being — 

if we put 2.T_y-|-?/= consta7it,\t is evident that as x diminishes, ?/must increase. 
Flitting, therefore, cos: in place of x, we shall have — 

cos^: + 2v/cos: + 1/^=- cos^: + [11^ — 1), 
or, 2v/cos:4-j/" = «~ — Inconstant ; 

and as cos; diminishes, the other part of the root of the radical increases, so 
that the value of the entire radical diminishes less rapidly than cos:. The 
numerator of the expression accordingly increases Avith increase of incidence, 
and the denominator diminishes : and both these changes increase the value of 
V. Hence, the amount of light reflected increases from incidence =0° to inci- 
dence — 90^. It is worth observing that the expressions Ave have obtained 
above for the molecular velocities of the reflected and refracted Avave, are also 
deducible directly from the ordinary formulas for the impact of elastic bodies. 
These formula;, (^employing m and m' for the masses, as aboA-e,) are — 



and u- 



VI + m' ' m + m' 

If, in place of m and m', Ave substitute the values found for the masses, v\z 

^__cos:^ and m'=^^^, the foregoing formulae will be reproduced, 
sin: 8in/> 



POLARIZATION BY REFLECTION. 101 

Let us next examine the case of a wave pMlarizcd in a plane at riglit angles 
to the ])lane of incidence. In this case, the mok^cular movements arc- in i\w. 
plane of incidence. The expressions for the masses will be the same as before ; 
but the components of the molecular velocities 'parallel to the rrflccti-ng sniface 
are to be taken, instead of the velocities themselves. These components are, 
for the incident Avavc, IX cos:; for the reflected wave, ^''Xcos;; and for the trans- 
mitted wave, tc' Xco» fi : and the assumption of Fresnel is — 

(1 + ?/)cos: = u'coBp* 

* In the attempt to apply the theory of iindulatiou to th(^ case of reflection and refraction 
at the surfaces of crystalline media, it has been found more satisfactory by Profs. McCnlla<Th 
and Neumau to employ the following assumptions, viz: 

I. The vibrations of polarized light are ])arallel to the plane of po'!arization. 

II. The density of the ether in both media is the same as in vacuo. 

III. The vis viva 'is preserved. 

IV. The resultani of the vibrations is the same in both media; and therefore, in singly 
refracting media, the vibration of the refracted ray is the resultant of the vibrations of the 
incident and reflected rays. 

On these principles, the case of reflection in the plane of polarization is simp'e. Let the 
refracted ray be extended backward, and it will divide the angle between the incident and 
reflected raj's (which equals 20 into two parts, which are, respectivcij', i-\-p and t — p. Upon 
this retrbduccd line as a diagonal, if a parallelogram be constructed with the incident and 
reflected rays as sides, this diagonal and these sides will be proportional to the amplitudes, 
and therefore to the velocities, of the molecular movements which are perpcmdicular to them 
severally. Employing then, as before, unity and the symbols v and u to designate these 
velocities, we shall have directly — 

sin(t — p) sin'2i 

v^= — . M= . 

s'm{c-{-p) siu(i+p) . 

In the case of reflection in a plane at right angles to the plane of pohirizatiou the vibra- 
tions are all parallel, and the fourth principle above gives — 

I-f-»'=i<'. 

Also the third principle gives (m and m' repr(^senting the masses of the ether put into mo- 
tion in the contiguous strata of the two media) — 

?)t(i — v'-)=>n'it''^. 
These equations lead to the values — 

, ?« — m' 2m 



m-\-)ii' m-\-7u' 

The same values may also be deduced from the laws of impact of elastic bodies 

According to the second principle, the masses m and to' are proportional to their volumes ; 
and these volumes have been found in the text to be proportional to sm^cosi and sinpco.s/i. 
Substituting these expie-ssions in place of m and m' in the foregoing iiuctiony, we .shall 
obtain — 

, tan(f — p) I sin'2i ^_^ 2sin2i 

tan(t-|-p)' sin,^i-t-pjcos(i— p) tan^i-|-p)i_cos--'i-f cosJJp)' 

_ Comparing these values with those of ihe text,' we tind those or v alike, but witli reversed 
Signs and interchanged— that which repiesented the velocity of molecular movement mor- 
vial to the p'ane of po'arization before, now denoting the velocity of movement in the 
plane, and v. v. In the expressions for the transmitted rays there is a difierence which 
i-e.-Tilts from the adoption of the second of the principles fo;egoiug, making the density of 
I he ether in the two media the same, which is not the supposition of the textr 

However strongly on some accounts this view of the subject may seem to recommend 
itself to our acceptance, it introduces a difficulty (elsewhere noticed) into the theory of double 
refraction, which has never j-et been met, and which seems to have been sino-ularly ip-nored 
by many who have engaged in this discussion. ° ° 

In order to facilitate the comparison of the values of the several expressions fore^-oin"" 
they may be reduced to a simple form of common denominator, when they become— ^ ° 

1. For the case of vibration in the plane of reflection — 

_ sm2{c — p) _ 2sin0tcos(i — p) 

sin'2i-}-siu2p" siu^it+siuiJp 

2. For vibration normal to the plane of reflection — 

, sin2t — sin2p , 2sin2i 

r= -. tt'= . — 

sm2i-)-sin2o sin2£-f-sin2p 



1 92 ■ UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

Combining (his with the equation of living forces given above, and reducing, 
we obtain these results : 

,., /'taxi('.—p)\^ f 2cos.'sin/) "X^ 
v/^— I — \ — L' |,andw'-=:i --— ,- — ^, |. [2.3.1 [24.1 

Replacing, as before, the value of sin/^ by its equivalent derived from the 
equation sin£=:«.shi/', wi; arrive at the following values which embrace only ouy 
variable : 

-,__ =3 I ; and u^^=\ -^ ~ -~ ■ = | . [25.] 26. 

V u'^ — sm^c + n'^coscy \v n'^ — sm^i+n^coscy 

The following forms are convenient for discussiou: 

1. For vibration in the plane of reflection — 

ncosp — cosi 2ncosi 

V= '—. . H= j- . 

ncoiip-{-cosi ?icosp-j-cost 

2. For vibration normal to the plane of reflection — 

, ncosi — eo.«p , 2mcos( 

v'= 1 -. u'= 1 . 

ncost+cosp Mcosi+cosp 

At a perpendicular incidence cost=:l and cosp=L Hence, in both cases, 

■n— 1 , , 2n 

Thus u and u' \vill always be positive, and v and v' will be positive when 7i is greater than 
1 and negative when n is less than ]. This ought to bo so, according to the laws of impac* 
of elastic bodies, because, the density of the ether being by hypothesis the same in both 
media, the masses leactnig on each other will bo as sint to smp, or as n to 1. 

As the incidence mcrcases, the variations of the value of v and v' will be dissimilar. 
Whenvib.a ion is in the plane of reflection and 9i exceeds unity, the positive term wcosp 
is neceasaniy ii'ways gi eater than the negative term cos/.. Both these terms diminish as / 
increases. Jf they diuunished at the same rate, the value of v Avould be constant. But 
as I is always gieater than p and neither exceeds 90°, the rate of diminution of cosi is more 
rapid than iha of cosp, and the value of v increases with the incidence. The same is true 
when n is less than unity ; only in that case the increasing value of v is negative. When 
the incidence is maximum, or i^'JL^, n being greater than 1, cosi=0 and v=l; that is to 
say, the ullecied is equal to the incident light. 

For the amount trausmiLi,cd in the same case, we have, at a perpendicular incidence — 

"""«+! ■ 

And for t=DC.°, or the maxunum incidence, 7i being greater than 1, 

M=0. 

It is also apparent that the amount transmitted constantly diminishes as l increases. 

When vibialion is normal to the plane of reflection, the positive term in the value of v', 
which is ncosi, Is at fn.-,t gieater (k being greater than unity) or less (w being less than unity) 
than the r.cgalive term co:-p. But since at the maximum incidence cosi=:U, there must b« 
some value of i which w'.a give ncost=cosp, or jicosi — co,sp=0. Accordingly, at this inci- 
dence no light wi;l be reflected. 

The two conditions — 

mcost=cosp, and nsinp=sin£, 
give immediately — 

sinp=cos;, or <+p=90°. 

The incidence i is the polarizing incidence ; and we here sec that it fulfils the law of 
Brewster. 

At the maximum incidence, n being greater tlian t, v'= — 1. The sign of the molecular 
movement, theieibre, changes at the polarizing angle. 

The transmitted light is m this case, at the perpendicular incidence, 

,_ 2w 

And at the maximum incidence, 

u'=0. 

At the polarizing incidence, where, as we have just seen, cosp=Jico8£, 

, 2?? cost 

«'= , =1. 

ncosi-|-ncost 



POLARIZATION BY REFLECTION. 193 

If we suppose the iucidence perpendicular, we shall have, as Lefore, 
t''^= ( "TTi ) ' ^^^ "'^~ 1 "XT ) • -^^ incidence 90 \ we Lave again, 
^,^ = (lJLZl\ = 1 ; and u''=0. 

Tlie agreement of these formulas with those obtained in the other case, is 
what ought to be expected, since, at a perpendicular iucidence, the direction of 
molecular movement can have no influence on reflection; and at 90° impact ceases. 
But if we examine the first value of v' given above, we shall perceive that it 
does not constantly increase with the increase of the incidence ; for the denom- 
inator, tan (£+jo). becomes infinite when ;-f/>=90^; and at this incidence v'=0, 
or there is no reflection. If then, in the originally incident beam, there had 
been a succession of waves, some of them polarized in the plane of incidence, 
and the rest polarized at right angles to that plane, all this latter class of waves 
would, at this particular incidence, be transmitted, while a portion of the others 
would be reflected. The incident light, from the mixture of the two classes of 
waves, would be imperfectly polarized, or not polarized at all : but the reflected 
light would be wholly polarized in the plane of reflection. 

In the result just reached, we see a reproduction of the law experimentally 
established by Brewster, viz., that, at the polarizing angle, the transmitted ray 
is at right angles to the incident ray, or c-{-p=:90\ 

If we now take the case of a wave whose plane of polarization is in any azi- 
muth to the plane of reflection between 0° and 90 ''j we may apply the principles 
already illustrated, by decomposing its molecular movements into comnonents, 
one of which shall coincide with the plane of reflection, and the other with the 
reflecting surface. If the given azimuth be a, the azimuth of the molecular 
movements will be 90° — a. The molecular movement in 'Oao, i)lane of rcjlectioa 
will therefore be cos(90° — a)^=sina ; and that in the reflecting surface will be 



That is to say, at this incidence the entire molecular uiorement normal to the plane of reflec- 
tion is transmitted. 

In this case the condition \-\-v'=u' is always fulfilled. Vv^hen vibration is in the plane of 
reflection it is fulfilled only for the peii^endicular incidence. At other incidences the fourth 
principle of McCullagh and Neuman, quoted above, necessarily involves the truth of Fiesnel's 
assumption for this case, viz : 

(l+r')cos<=w'cosp. 

When n is less than 1, these formula3 fail for incidences beyond the limitiuf au"-le of total 
reflection. 
The formula in the text admit of reductions similar to the foregoing. They thus become 

1. For vibrations in the plane of reflection — 

sin2f — sin2p 4sinpcosf 

sin2t-f-sin2p' sin2i-f-sinyp* 

2. For vibrations normal to the plane of reflection — 

, sin2(i — p\ ^_4siupcostcos(i — p) 

sin2i-|-sin2p' sin2i+siu2/3 

And for convenience of discussion : 

1. For vibrations in the plane of reflection — 

«cost-^cosp ^COSi 

MCOSt-j-COSp ' »iCOSi-{-COSp * 

2. For vibrations normal to the plane of reflection — 

, ncosp — cost ^ 2cost 

HCOsp-|-cost " mcosp-f-cost 

The first of these values of v becomes zero at tlie polarizing angle, and is positive for all 
higher incidences. 

13 s 



194 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

copcc. The living force in the reflected beam (which we may represent bj E) 
will consequently be — the mass being assumed for convemeuce=unity — 

11^ ri^'h'.co.^.+ C'^\':^\)'.lu^a. [27.] 

The agreement of this result with our previous conclusions may be verified 
by making a succe-sively;:=0-' and =90'^. In the first case — 

11= / . —-A ; and m the second, R= I — > ^^ j 

If a =45°, sin^a=^, and cos"a=:^i. Couscqucntly» 

This might easily be anticipated by considering that, in the supposed case, 
the incident beam is equivalent to two beams, each having an intensity of ^, 
and polarized — one in the piano of reflection, and the other in the plane perpen- 
dicular to it. The reflected beam should contain one-half the force in each 
plane which it would have done had each intensity been = 1. 

Let there now be two beams each =^h incident together, and polarized in thu 
azimuths a and a'. From what has just been said, it is evident that the value 
of R will be— 

ll = i("4^)^cos^«+cos="'; + ^(''"!'-'1)'.(Bin^. + BinV). [29.] 

In this expression, if u'=::^90^ — a, cos"a-|-cos'a'=:l. Also sin^a-j-sin^a'::=l. 
R becomes, therefore, equal to the sum of the intensities of two rays each =^, 
polarized, one in the plane of incidence, and the other at right angles to it, no 
matter what may be the value of a. If, then, any number of waves, in different 
azimuths, follow each other in so close succession as to blend their impressions 
upon the eye, and if their azimuths are so impartially distributed that lor every 
value of a there is another = 90^ — a, the forces in all these azimuths being 
equal, then the resultant effect of the whole must necessarily be — 



''-<\ni.+r)) +^tan(= + ,); 



[30. 



But this is the condition of common light. The formula just stated, there- 
fore, represents the living forces in the two principal planes, in a beam of com- 
mon light after reflection, the original force being taken = 1. When c-\-p=z90'\ 
the second term disappears. The reflected 'beam is then entirely polarized. 

If we decompose the second term in the value of R, above, into its factors, 
we shall have (disregarding the numerical coefficient, and omitting the expo- 
nent) — 

tiXM{c-f >)^sm{'.-p) cos(M:r) rg-^ j 

tnn[t-j-p) sin(!-f-/>) "cos(£— /j) * 

The molecular velocity of the wave polarized at right angles to the plane of 
reflection appears thus to be equal to that of the wave polarized ?n the plane of 

reflection, multiplied by the factor — -,-^-^-^~.- When £=^90° (which is the great- 
^ '' cos{c—p) ^ '^ 

est value it can have) the numerator and denominator of this fraction are equal, 

with opposite signs. The sign does not concern us at present, as it has no effect 

upon the value of the living force in the wave. For all values of i less than 90"^ 

[f) being necessarily less than t when n exceeds 1) the denominator is greater 

than the numerator. It follows that in the reflection of common light, a larger 

amount of living forco will, in the reflected beam, be preserved in the movements 



POLARIZATION BY REFLECTION. 1*J5 

perpcndicvilar to the ])lanc of reflection than in those coincident with that plane; 
or, iu other words, that the reflected beam will be more or less polarized in the 
plane of reflection. 

In order to estimate the amount of this polarization, we must take the diff'er- 
once between the two terms in the value of R. And if we desire to find the 
proportion of light polarized, we must divide this diflfcrence by the sum. Or 
putting- P to represent this proposition : 



sin^(!+,'') V cos-(:— z?)' cos^f; — /)") — cos^Tj-I-^) _ , 

p — — ! — — - = ■ — ■ 1 32 1 

sin''^(.' — I)) I Q.Qi''\^i-Vi,V cos^i^t — />;+cos'^(^£+/>j "- '■' 

sin^(j+/>) ^ cos^(;— /))/ 

Reverting once more to the case of a wave polarized in azimuth a to the 
plane of reflection, we shall perceive, by the formulte, that after reflection it is 
Ktdl polarized, though not in the same plane as before ; for the rectangular 
components of the molecular movement being unequally altered, their resultant 
must have a new direction. In the expressions, 

sin':— /i) , tan(': — /)) . sin'c — p) cos'£ + />) . 

?;^-l_-^ — '■ . cos «, ?;'=_L ■ —. sma=_|- . -, ~\. -. ,. sma. 

-^sin;: + />) ^tan(i + /') ^^\\\\i-\-p) cos(^: — [>) 

the first is the molecular velocity normal to the plane of reflection, and the 
second is the same velocity in the plane of reflection. The second divided by 
the first is therefore the tangent of the inclination of the molecular movement te 
the normal ; or of the resultant plane of polarization to the plane of reflection. 
Putting this inclination = «', we have 

sina cos(t + /') ^ cos(c+/)) .^ , 

tana' = . ^ ;. =tana. . I o3.J 

cosa cos(f — (>) cos(f — p) 

If the reflected ray undergo reflection from a second mirror parallel to the 
first, its incident azimuth will be a' ; and, after reflecuon, it will have another 
azimuth a", of which the tangent will be 

,, ,C0S''£ + fl) COs'^^Tc+io) ■ rn* 1 

tana'=taua'. — . =tana, — ^ r. M*- 

cos(; — p) cos^(£ — p) 

And, as the law is manifest, we may say that after any number, n, of reflec- 
tions, the tangent of the azimuth will be 

tana(«)=tanr//^-^^^i±^\" ' [35.] 

While cos(f+/') has a value — that is, while £+/> is more or less than 90^ — 
tan("^a will also have a value ; or the plane of polarization of the wave will 
not be brought, by any number of reflections, into absolute coincidence with the 
plane of reflection ; but when £+/;=90'^, it will be so by the first reflection. 

When — '—. r is a small fraction, or at least not a large one, the plane of 

cos(; — p) 

polarization will, after a few reflections, be brought sensibly into the plane of 
reflection. For instance, let i be 45°, and also a=45^. Then, for glass 

(index 1.50) /9 will be 28° nearly; and ^^^-— ^^ Avill be about jV I" this 

COS(£ — p) 

case one reflection will reduce the azimuth to IG*^ 42' ; two to 5° 9' ; three to 
1° 32' ; four to 0° 28' ; and five to 0° 8^'. 



196 



UNDULATOKl' THEORY 01' LIGHT. 



§ VIII.— CIRCULAR AND ELLIPTICAL I'OLAlilZATION I5Y REFLECTION. 

In all that precedes it Las been tacitly assnmed that tlu; initial phase oi" the 
reflected midulation is a continuation of the final phase of the incident, or of 
the same; reversed ; and also that the virtual origins of the elementary waves of 
which we suppose the resultant relic, .ed wave to be composed, are in one inva- 
riable surface, whatever be the azimuth of the incident molecular movements. 
If these assumptions are entirely true, the expressions for the molecular velo- 
city of the reflected wave ought to correspond with observation in all cases. 
These expressions, nevertheless, fail for the case of total reflection at the second 
surfaces of denser media, as will be; apjjarent if we substitute; the value of n, 
which, in the cas« supposed, is less than unity in the formuhc. 

2 / ■^li^ — mi^t — cost \ 2 /2 _/ ^'^'^^ — ^"^^' — w'^costx 2 

Xy/ri^ — sin^2 + cos£/ ' \ Vw'"' — siu^i + w'^cos:/ 

AVhen sin^jr=?i^, v"^ and «'^ each nr. 1 ; or the reflection is total. Wc; know, 
experimentally, that it continues to be total for all higher values of £ ; but the 
radicals in tin; foregoing become imaginary. Mr. Fresnel, therefore, concluded 
that reflection in some manner raodiiies the ^>A«.sy' of the undulation. Experi- 
ment proves that it does so, and also that the degree of the modiflcation depends 
upon the azimuth of the molecular moven:ients, and upon the incidence. 

The conversion of plane into circular polarization by reflection in " Fresnel's 
rhombs " has been described. The manner in which this change taki^s place 
may now be understood. If the plane ray is incident in either of the principal 
azimuths 0^ or 90°, its plane of polarization is not afl'ccted by reflection. But 
if its azimuth be 45°, it emerges from the rhomb after having undergone two 
total reflections circularly polarizcMl. Now the plane polarized ray in azimuth 
45°, is equivalent to two plane ])olarized rays of half the int(>nsit.y in azimuths 
0" and 90." And as these components would singly undergo no sensible; 
change of plane by reflection, while jointly fhey produce a circularly polarized 
ray, we infer that one of them has been advanced or retarded upon the other 
by a quarter of an undulation. If the ray had undergone only one reflection 
in the rhomb, or if it had urulergone three, it would have; em(>rged neither piano 
polarized nor cii-cularly polarized. If it had uiulergone four, it would have 
emerged plane polarizetl again, with a change of 90° from its original azimuth. 
Now, all th(!se i)henomena are represented by the equation |i] for the resultant 
of vibrations at right angles to each other, which is as follows : 
a'2_y2_|_^22.2 — 2aa'x7/cosO=a'^ahui^O. 

If we substitute for 0, Avhich is the interval between the two compounded 
undulations, the more convenient symbol 2---, in which — expresses the differ- 
ence of phase as a fraction of an undulation, the equation takes the form, 
a'^y^+a^x^ — 2aa'xijcos2- =a'^ahm^2-- . 

This (Mjuatfon becomes the (Mpiation of a circle if we make w^a', and 
-=^, or an odd nufltiple of ;{. It is then x^-\-7/'^::zza^. It is the equation of an 

eflipse for any values of - if a is not = a'. Hence the necessity of the con- 

dition that the original plane of polarization should be in azimuth 45'^, that the 
components into which the velocity is decomposed in the principal azimuths 

may be ecpial. It is an e([uation of an (ellipse when az~a', if y is not = :|, 
or an odd niidlijile of ,[. The ellipse becomes a straight line if - =|, or an odd 



CIRCULAR POLARIZATIOX. 



117 



'^L 






R 



Vh 



48. 



imiUi})le of i. It is tlicreforc cvidcait tli;it, at cadi r(.'fle(;tion in tlio rlioml), ono 
of tlic component waves is accclonitcd or retarded oiie-eigljlli of an undulation 
upon the other. 

The restoration of the ])lane ])olariz;ition, after four nsfiections, in an azimutli 
00° removed from tJie azinuitli of incidence, may he understood hy C(jnsid(!ring 
f the iollowinj^ ilhistration. Let the, 

arrow I'P' represent the amplitude 
of movem(int in a ])ohirized wave at 
a given moment. L(;t this he re- 
solved into two rectangular compo- 
nents 45*^ inclined to it on each side, 
represented hy the arrows QQ' and 
liU'. Suppose the molecule, at a 
given instant, to he situated at the 
point C* of its path. CJ" is tlie direction in wliich it is moving, and tlie length 
of tlie line is the extent of its range. By two reflections in I''resn(d's rhomh, 
or hy any other cause, let the component JIU' he so advanced upon QQ' that, 
at some future instant, the molecule shall have reached the limit of its rangi; in 
the hori:iontal dir(!Ction, and shall be ahout to return (as at U in the second 
system of arrows) when, in the V(;rtical direction it is in the middle point, and 
going toward Q' as hefon;. This would be in C, but for the horizoiital displacc- 
jueut. In point of fact, it is at 11. The vei'tical vcdocity, (represented hy the 
dotted arrow Q"Q"',) is at its maximum, and the horizontal velocity is zciro. 
The conditions are such as, in the section on vibration, are shown to produce a 
revolution of the molecule in a circle. The path of the molecule will accord- 
ingly be ItQ'R'Q. After two additional reflections in the rhomb, the horizont.al 
movement will be advanced over the vertical by another quarter of its doul)lc 
vibration, and will bring the molecule, in its progress from right to left, to the 
middle point, C", in the third system of arrows, at the same instant at which 
the vertical movement, in the direction Q', brings it to the same point. The 
velocities are now both at their maximum, and are equal. The molecule takes 
the m(;an direction, V"V", betwecm them, and the ray is plane polarized in an 
azimuth 90'^ from the original plane. 

Suppose the eye of the observer to be at E, the I'evolutiou of the molecule; is 
dcxtrogyre, or, as it is also called, dcxlrorsum. Conceived as viewed in the oppo- 
site direction, it would be laivogyre, or sinistra rsum. \\\ the earlier historv of 
this subject, some confusion arose from the fact that different observers applied 
these terms in different ways. Since observation, however, is only made upon 
rays ajiprojichiiig the observer, this is the point of view now universally adopted 
in naming the direction of gyration. Jt appears, then, that the advance of the, 
left-hand component, by a quarter undulation, produces a dextrogyration, and 
vice versa. If the plane of original polarization were P'T'", then, in the resolu- 
tif^n. It 1 1' would be reversed, and the advance of Illl' would be the advance of 
the right-hand component, producing lajvogyration. In this case, after four 
reflections in Fresnel's rhomb, the resultant plane of polarization would be Vl". 
If we distinguish, as positive, the azimuths to the right of the plane of reflec- 
tion, and, as negative, those to the left, we may say that a plane polarized ray 
in original azimuth — H'P, is circularly polarized dextrorsum by passing through 
one of I'resnel's rhombs; and becom(;s plane polariz(fd again in azimuth +4-3'^, 
after passing through two. If the original azimuth he -{-4-'3, the circular polar- 
ization is sinistrorsum, and the hnal azimuth of plane polarization, negative. 
One of these rhomhs may, therefore, be used as a polariscope, to detect the 
direction of rotation of a circularly polarized ray. 

If two rays, one; in azimuth +45°, and the other in azimuth — i'P, were to 
be reflected simultaneously in one of Fresnel's rhombs, the two consequent 

*Tliu loitois C, C, C", are accidentally omitted from the diagram. Tbey should be jjlaced 
oii tJic dotted hue at the intersections of the .successive systcm.s of arrow.s. 




IQg UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

^•■yrations, being in opposite directions, Avould produce a rectilinear resultant. I« 
this case, suppose the molecule, M, to be in any part of tho 
circumference in which either of the gyrations would cause 
it to revolve ; it will be subject to the action of three forces : 
one, MC, directed toward the centre of its orbit, and the 
other two, represented by P and Q, equal and opposite. The; 
two latter neutralize each other, and the molecule pursues tho 
path MC. When the molecule is at M', the tangential forces 
JP and Q, which will then have the directions P' and Q'. will 
not directly balance .each other, but will have a resultant in 
the direction RG. And for all other points in the path of 
the molecule, as M'', M'", &c., the resultant of the tan- 
ii'^ gential forces will always be in the diameter, MN, of the 

Fig. 4:'J orbit. 

In Fi"". 48 we have supposed the arrows PP'and P''P'" to represent not only 
tlie iwsUions of the planes of molecular vibration, but the direction of the move- 
ments. Their resultant plane is accordingly QQ'. If the direction of one of 
them, as of P"P'", had been opposite, the resultant would be RR. If the two 
were in any equal positive and negative azimuths, greater or less than 45'-^, their 
resultant gyrations would be elliptic ; but the ellipses, being equal and similar, 
and similarly situated to the plane..of reflection, whilt they are opposite in move- 
ment, would still produce the vibration QQ . And two movements in azimuths 
equally above and below 90°, either positive or negative, would in like manner 
produce the plane vibration RR . iSiow the condition of natural light is such 
that, for every azimuth of its successive plane vibrations, as PP , producing, by 
total reflection, a gyratory molecular movement, whether circuldr or elliptic, 
there wdl always be found another which will produce an equal and opposite 
gyration. And, although these gyrations are successive and not simultaneous, 
ihough, therefore, there is never, in this case, any real composition, like that 
illustrated in Fig. 49, neutralizing, in Jact, the gyratory movements, yet the 
compensatory effects follow each other with such rapidity that, to our instru 
ments and our powers of vision, they are as if they did not exist. Commori 
light cannot, therefore, be polarized by total reflection. Moreover, common 
lio-ht need not, in any case, be supposed to be made up strictly of plane vibra- 
tions. It is only necessary to suppose its gyratory movements to be as impar- 
tially distributed as we have heretofore presumed its plane vibrations to be. 

If, however, we suppose a surface which is not a surface of total reflection to 
possess the power of accelerating or retarding one of the rectangular components 
of the incident molecular velocity over the other, then the reflected light will, 
in general, be (dliptically polarized. For the two components are never equally 
reflected except in total reflection. Now there are very few substances capable 
of reflecting light Avhich do not possess this power, and, accordingly, elliptical 
polarization is the effect most usually attending reflection. As has been else- 
where stated, it is only those substances whose indexes of refraction are very 
near to 1.414 that produce a kind of polarization that is sensibly plane. 

This subject has been very thoroughly investigated, theoretically, by Mr. 
Caucby, and experimentally by Mr. Jamin, -wifh results mutually corroborative 
of each other. In order to clearly understand the experimental methods 
cmployc^d, lot us observe that, if a plane polarized wave be supposed to be 
decomposed into two rectangular component undulations, the cui-ves represent- 
ing these components will cross the common intersection of their planes in the 
same points. These crossing points may be called nodes. In the case sup- 
posed, the nodes of the two components are coincident. The effect of reflection 
is, in o-eneral, {i. c., in all cases except those which have the index of i-efraction 
just now mentioned,) to throw the nodi'S of the components out of coincidence. 
And the original plane polarization will be restored by br'niging hack the nodes 




CIRCULAR POLARIZATION. ]f;f) 

to tlicir original coincidence, or by increasing llin discrepancy between tliem by 
repeated rcllcctioas until it amounts to halt' an undulation. In the first case, if 
the reflection were total, as at the second surface of glass, the plane of polari- 
zation, after restoration, would be unaltered. In the second case, on similar sup- 
positions, it would be changed 90°. When the reflection is not total, the, 
resultant plane, after the reunion of the displaced nodes, will difler from the 
origind plane in consequence of the unecjual losses experieuced by the two com- 
ponents in reflection. 

Both those methods have been employed in experimentally determining the 
dislocatiiig effects of different media, at different incidences, upon the rectangular 
componeats of plane polarized light. Many of Mr. Jamin's more recent and 
elaborate researchers have been made by the meLhod first mentioned. The essentia 1 
part of his apparatus consisted in a double prism, formed of two equal acute 
wedges of rock crystal, cut parallel to the axis, and combined as shown in the 
,^ figure annexed. The wedge ABC has the edge AB y,"//-- 

atlcl to the axis, and the wedge ADO has the edge DC 
jjcrpen'dicular to the axis. The surfaces AB and DC arc 
both ixirallel to the axis. If a plane polarized ray, PQ, 
pass at right angles to AB through the middle of this 
system, wliere the wedges are equally thick, it will remain 
plane polarized, and the position of its plane Avill remain 
unaltered v/hatever be the azimuth of incidence ; the dis- 
locating effect of the double refraction of one of the wedges being compensated 
by an equal and opposite effect of the other. But if the .system bf moved to 
the right or to the left, the two opposite effects will no longer bo equal. This 
being a positive crystal, the component of molecular movement parallel to AB 
will be in retardation of that perpendicular to AB, for the position of the ray, 
P'Q'. and will be in advance for the position P' Q". But if the ray has been 
already dislocated by reflection, some part of the prism may be f )und Avhicli 
will produce au equal and contrary effect, so as to restore the plane polarization 
All that is necessary, then, to make this instrument a measure of the dislocation 
is to connect it Avith a scale and a screw movement, and to determine the value of 
the scale divisions. This last determination is easy, since a run which converts 
a plane polarized ray into a ray plane polarized with a dift'erence of azimuth of 
90*^, is equivalent to half an undulation. Mr. Jamin's apparatus accomplishi'd 
this change in twelve complete turns of the screw. Smaller divisions were 
measured by the graduation. of the screw-head, of which there were two hun- 
dred divisions to the revolution. The delicacy of the contrivance may be appre- 
ciated from this statement. It is known as Mr. Jamin's "compensator." 

It would occupy too much space to attempt here to give a full account of i\[r. 
Jamin's interesting researches, o*r of the methods employed by him auxiliary to 
that just described. The most important results of his investigations are the 
following : 

Nearly all transparent bodies produc.-, by reflection from their surface?, a 
difference of phase between the component waves polarized in the two princip,d 
planes. All whose indexes of refraction exceed 1.414, advance the phase of the 
component polarized in the plane of incidence. All those whose indexes are 
below that value retard the phase of the same component. 

The difference of phase augments with the incidence from ^l at 0' to x at 
90°, and becomes fA at the polarizing angle. The variations are slow and 
almost insensible for some distance from either 0^ or 90^^. They usually become 
sensible near the polarizing angle. The limits are nearer together as th(i polari- 
zation under that angle is greater. 

Beyond these limits the polarization is plane, but imperfect. Within them it 
is elliptic. 

The two limits are nearer to each other as the ind<^x of refraction approaches 



200 



UNDULATORY THEORY OP^ LIGHT. 



1.414. They unite, for substances whose index has that exact value. Mr. 
Jamin found but two substances in which this condition is fulfilled. They were 
a specimen of menilite, and a crystal of alum cut perpendicularly to the axis of 
ihe octahedron. Water and glass, which under ordinary liglit appear to polarize 
|:eifcctly, are easily seen not to do so under the strong light of the sun. 

In the cases in which the index has the particular value just mentioned, the 
advance of phase at the polarizing angle is "brusque" from ^A to X. This is 
\cry nearly the case with water and glass. 

lleflection from the surface of metals always produces elliptical polarization. 
The advance of phase is progressive from incidence 0° to incidence 90°. There 
are, however, very large differences between metals in this respect. 



§ IX. ROTATORY POLARIZATION. 

We are now perhaps prepared to understand the reason of the rotation of the 
plane of polarization of a ray transmitted along the axis of a crystal of quartz. 
We have seen that Fresnel, by an ingenious combination of prisms, succeeded in 
demonstrating the existence within the crystal of two circularly polarized rays, 
gyrating in opposite directions. And we have seen that the resultant effect of 
two opposite gyrations is to produce a movement in a plane. The gyratory 
movements within the crystal are then not actual but virtual — in other words 
there are forces constantly tending to produce these gyrations, which hold each 
other in equilibrio or at least nearly so. We must consider these forces as suc- 
cessively traversing all azimuths Avitliin the length of each undulation. If the 
wave were of the same length for both gyrations, the forces being presumed 
equal, the molecular movement would be constantly rectilinear, and the plane 
of polarization would not change. But, as the plane does in fact change, we are 
led to infer that the undulation lengths for the two rays are not equal. The 
annexed figure may serve to illustrate the mutual action of 
these rays. Suppose 3IADB to be the orbit in which a 
force P tends to urge a molecule, M, to revolve around the 
centre, C, to which it is drawn by the force MC. Suppose 
the equal force Q to urge the same molecule to describe the 
same orbit in the opposite direction. These forces holding 
each other in equilibrio, the molecule will follow the direc- 
tion of the third force, MC. 

Now suppose the force Q suspended, the molecule will 
take the direction of the circle ADB, and will continue to 
revolve in it so long as the force P (supposed always tan- 
gential) continues to act. But its movement Avill impart to 
the molecule next below it a similar motion, and that to the 
next, and so on ; so that, as these successive molecules take 
up their movement later and later, there will be a series in 
different degrees of advancement in their several circles, 
forming a sjiiral ; and when the molecule M shall have 
returned to its original position, the series will occupy a position like the curve 
MFLN'OR. If now P be supposed to be in turn suspended, while the force Q 
continues to act, the effect of Q will be to produce a contrary spiral, Avhich may 
be represented by MSKTV. If MD be a diameter of the circle MADB, drawn 
i'rom M, and DNHN' be a line parallel to the axis CG of the cylindrical surface 
which is the locus of tlie spirals, then, if the undidation lengths are the same 
for both movements, the two spirals will intersect DH in the same point, the 
intersections markiug the completion of a half undidation for each. But if these 
lengths be unequal, the intersections with DH will take place at different points, 
as N and N'. 

Let now a plane intersect the cylinder at any distance below MADB, as at 




INDEX OF ROTATORY POLARIZATION. 201 

E, parallel to MADB. It is conceivable that this plane may be made to pass 
through the point where the spirals intersect each other. If I mark the point 
of intersection, and we draw the tangents IP' and IQ' in the plane of the circle 
EHl, then there will be a molecuh; at the point I which will be in the circum- 
stances of the molecule in Fig. 49 at the- point M — t4iat is to say, solicited by 
three forces, of which two, IP' and IQ', are equal and opposite, and the third is 
directed in the line IG toward the centre. The molecule will, therefore, move 
in this line, and not in a circle ; and if the plane of the circle EHIH' be the 
bounding siu-face of the crystal, or the surface of emergence of the light, IG will 
mark the azunuth of the molecular movement of the emergent ray. 

But if the plane of EHIH' do not pass through the point of intersection of 
thf' spirals, it must cut each spiral in a different point. The figure is drawn to 
represent this more general case, the points of intersection with the spirals being 
severally L and K. By joining LK, and drawing the radius GI perpendicular 
to it, GI will bisect the angle LGK, and M', at the intersection of GI and LK, 
will b:^ the position of the molecule in the plane EHLIK, which, if the tangen- 
tial force P only were acting, would be at L, and if the tangential force Q only 
were acting, would be at K. The tangential forces acting at the moment on 
this molecule will not be represented by IP' and IQ', but by tangents at K and 
L, like RP' and RQ' in Fig. 49, in which figure the position of the molecuh; M' 
corresponds to that marked by the same letter in the present ligure ; but in that 
figure the resultant of the tangential forces is RC, directed to the centre, aud in 
this it will, in like manner, be IG. 

Now, as DH, the distance between the planes ADB and EHI, ia a larger 
part of the length of an entire turn of the spiral JMSNK than of the spiral 
MFLN', the line GI will fall on the right of GH, the position it would 
occupy if the two undulations were equal in length. We may therefore say, as 
before, that if the plane EHI were the surface of emergence of a ray from a 
crystal, in which it had been subject to the action of the forces supposed, its 
plane of polarization, GI, would be turned toward the right from its original 
azimuth. The plane of polarization turns, therefore, in the direction of the 
windivg of the closest spiral, or of the ray of shortest undulation; but it turns 
in the direction of the gyration of the ray of longest undulation. 

This rotation of the plane thus demonstrates that the tAvo rays advance with 
unequal velocities in the axis of quartz — a remarkable fact which is not true of 
any crystal which produces plane polarization only. 

It also enables us to determine the relative velocities, or to ascertain the index 
of rotatory polarization. For since GI bisects the angle between the points K 
and L, which mark the relative degrees of advancement of the two rays in their 
respective rotations, if we take a thickness, 0, which produces a rotation of 90°, 
we know that the difference of phase is then one half an undulation. If X de- 
note the length of the longer undulation, and I' that of the shorter, then — 

0^=^m).=^{in + ijA' ; or -t=— =— . 

As --zizm, aud X may be determined by experiments on refraction, the value 

o^ m is known when is measured. By pursuing this method, j\[r. Babiuct 

found the value of —="-1.00003 ; a value which, small as it is, is the largest 

known i'or rotatory polarization. 

When light is transmitted through quartz at right angles to the axis, tht; 
emergent rays are plane polarized. J\lr. Airy has proved that, for directions 
oblique to the axis, the polarization is elliptic, the ellipticity increasing from 
the direction perpendicular up to the direction parallel to the axis, where it 
becomes circular. 




202 UNDULATOllY TIIEOEY OF LIGHT. 

It is difficult to conceive exactly tbc physical action by which rotatory polari- 
zation is produced. But there is no diljliculty in imagining such a decomposition 
of the molecular movements in a plane polarized ray, as shall represent the 
relations which exist after the lotaiory polarization has been established. We 
have seen that when a plane imdulation has been resolved into two equal rectan- 
gular components, if the nodal ]om{?~ of these components become dislocated by 
a quarter of an undulation, the resultant will be a movement in a circular orbit. 
We have also seen that when the left-hand component is advanced by this 
amount, the motion becomes dcxtrogyre ; and when the right hand component 
is advanced, it becomes Irevogyre. In order, then, to explain the co-existence 
of two opposite circular polarizations, we must suppose two sets of equal 
rectangular components dislocated in these two opposite ways. This was the 
hypothesis of Fresnel. 

In Older to facilitate the conception, suppose the arrow P to represent, in 
quantity and direction, the molecular movement, at a given instant, in the origi- 

nal plane polarized wave. Imagine it to be 
''i^^Aa' /^ a resultant of two other waves, Q and 11, 

"' ' ■ //h f ^'^^ ^■'^ front of it, and the other behind it, 
\J^^^r' each at the distance of one- eighth of an un- 
dulation. Ihesc will then be a quarter ot 
an undulation distant from each other. Let 
Q and R be again resolved, each into two 
equal rectangular components, in azimuths 
-1-45° and — 45° ; Q, into q and r ; and 11 
into q' and r'. Consider all these four component movements, at the instant 
supposed, and in the positions represented, to be at their maximum of velocity, 
in the direction of the several arrows denoting them. Then, if we consider the 
relative stages of advancement, or phases of- movement, of the pair q and r, in 
respect to q' and /', when both are referred to a common plane, it will be seen 
that the latter, though most advanced in position, are least advanced in phase 
For, if we conceive the curves of these waves to be drawn, the ascending node 
of q' will be found in the plane of qr, and the descend if/g node of q in the plane 
of q'r'. Hence, at the point where the wave q' begins, the wave q is one-quarter 
advanced. 

W^e have, then, two pairs of plane undulations, q and ?•' and r and q^ , severally 
normal to each other, and with nodes dislocated to the extent of one-quarter of 
an undulation ; q and r being the members of the pairs Avhich are most advanced 
in phase. In the case of the pair q and r\ the right-hand component being that 
which is most advanced, the resultant movement is a revolution sinistrorsum 
In the case of r and g-' the resultant will be a revolution dcxtrorsum. 

The values of these several components are determined from the general 
equation following, which is simply equation [3,] with the symbols changed : 

p2=iQ2+R2+2QIlcos(7. 

P 
By hypothesis R = Q, and tf = 90°. Hence P^ = 9Q2, and Q = --p=. 

Again. q:^ = q^ + ^ = 2q\ And ^ = -5| = ^|__ = ^R 

R P 

Also, R2 = 7'2+ r'2 = 2g '^ And c[ = -- = — — -^ = ^P. 
^ ^ ^/2 V2V2 

It appears, therefore, that the molecular velocity in each of the component 
waves q, r, q', r', is equal to one-half that of P, as it should bo, in order that the 
sum of their living forces may be equal to the living fn-ce of the primitive wave. 

Since the two circularly polarized rays in the axis of quartz have unequid 



INTERFERENCES OF CIRCULARLY POLARIZED RAYS. 203 

velocities, there mast be certain tliicknesscs of tlie crystal, wliicli will make tlie 
difference of their paths equal to half an undulation, or to an odd midtiplc of 
half an undulation. It might be supposed, therefore, that in such cases inter- 
ference would occur, so that the crystal should naturally exhibit colors. The 
fact is not so ; and if we consider the conditions Ave shall discover without diffi- 
culty the reasons why it is not. If, in Fig\ 52, the two components q and r' of 
one of the circularly polarized rays be supposed to advance or gain upon q' and 
r, the distance between q and q' will diminish until q passes q', and the distance 
between r and r' will constantly increase. If c represent the amount of advance, 
the distance of r' from the plane of qr in the figure will be c-f-^A. ^^<^ the disr 
tance of q from the same plane will be c only. Now, since q and q' are equal, 
the resultant to Avhich they are equivalent will fall half Avay between them, 
(page 167.) The same is true in regard to the resultant of r and r'. But the 
point half way between q and q' will be situated at a distance frora the plane 
qr which is the mean of the distances of q and q' ; thus — 

Distance of q = c ) Mean — -ifc-l-i;)— ic 4-1/1 
Distance oW = ll | Mean— ^(c + ^/j — vc-f- ^x. 

In like manner — 

Distance of r = \ , . _ w„ , i ,n _ i„ , , , 

Distance of / = c + -i;. } Mean^-.l^+^/j — ,c-f ^X. 

That is to say, the resrjtants of the components in each plane always coincid*^ 
in position. We have next to consider their values. From the statements 
above it appears that the distance hctioccn r and ?•' is the entire distance of r* 
from the plane qr — that is, ^c+^A. And the distance between q and (f is the 
difference of the distances of q and q^ severally from the same plane qr — that is, 

In the general equation for the resultant of two waves whose molecular move- 
ments are in the same plane, (equation [3,] ) we must accordingly introduce th>j 
followinsx values of 6' : 



For q and (f , = 2~(^-—\\. 
For r and /, 0^2-(^- + \\. 



Then putting p for the first resultant, and p' for the second, and remembering 
that q^iq':z^r--^^r' , the equations become, 

p'=q^ + q-'-^2qq'i:0^:>r.(^: — ^^^q'J^q''~ + 2qq'^m27z'^~^^^ 

y-^?-- + r" + 2//cos2-( ^. + M = 7-2 + r'- — 2;T'sin2-^'==2/-Y^ 

Whence ^r4-7'/"-~2'y^+2/'"=:'0« /rt///. And the intonsity of the light is invi- 
riable. 

By considering tlic foregoing values of p^ and ^/'^, however, it will be seen 
that they are severally variable, though their variations are always compen- 
satory. If c be any number of half undulations — 

(^ 
Sin2- = 0: and »^ = //^. 

But if c be an odd number of quarter undulations, 

Sin2-- = 1 or — ] ; and either ^^=0, ory^ = 0. 

Both 2^^ and iP, therofore, pass through a succession of maxima and minima, 
the increments of the one corresponding always in value to the simultaneous 



204 IJNDULATOliY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

decrements of the other, unci each becoming periodically zero. It accordingly 
follows that if two circularly polarized rays, whose molecular gyrations arc 
performed in opposite directions, be thrown together in a nearly comnwu direc- 
tion, and observed by means of an analyzer, fringes of interference may be de- 
tected in the two principal azimuths, those in one of these azimuths being com- 
plementary to those in the other. 

Mr. Babinet made this observation, employing Arago's prism to produce in- 
terfering pencils of plane polarized light ; which pencils he polarized circularly 
by means of " quarter-wave lamince " of mica placed in their paths. The gyra- 
tions were made of opposite kmds in the two pencils, by placing the two laminae 
so that their principal planes should be at right angles to each other. As an 
analyzer, he employed a doubly refracting prism. The fringes immediately 
appeared ; thus furnishing a very interesting experimental corroboration of a 
theoretic anticipation. 

In the year 1845 Mr. Faraday communicated to the Royal Society of London 
a very remarkable discovery which he had made, of the apparent influence of 
7nagnctism upon light. If any homogeneous transparent body be placed under 
the influence of a powerful electro-magnet, it will possess the property, whiln 
the magnetism is maintained, of turning the plane of a ray of polarized light 
traversing it in the direction of a line joining the magnetic poles, in the same 
manner as such a ray is turned by quartz, or by liquids possessing the property 
of rotatory polarization. Mr. Faraday was at first disDOsed to attribute this effect 
to a direct action of magneti;im on light, but that idea is now abandoned ; and 
the received opinion on the subject supposes that the molecules of the medium 
undergo some modification during the continuance of the magnetic influence, 
which assimilates their action upon the ether to that of substances which pos- 
sess permanently the power of rotatory polarization. The direction in which the 
plane of polarization was turned in these experiments depended on the direction 
of the electric currents. When the cun-ents were reversed, the rotation was 
reversed also. It is impossible in this place to do more than to allude to this 
interesting discovery. 

^ X. CHROMATICS OF POLARIZED LIGHT. 

We will now proceed to apply the principles we have been considering to the 
'•xplanation of the colors produced in doubly refracting substances by polarized 
lio'ht. We have seen that double refraction consists in the generation of two 
waves of unequal velocity and of dissimilar form in the doubly refracting body. 
We have also seen that the molecular movements in the two waves are at right 
ano-les to each other. In consequence of the inequality of velocity the two rays 
into which a doubly refracting body divides a single incident ray may emerge 
from a surface opposite and parallel to the surface of incidence in different 
phases. If not entirely separated by the deviation of their paths, they may 
thus, so far as 'plia&c is concerned, be in condition to interfere. But we hav*- 
seen that interference is impossible between waves whose molecular movements 
are perpendicular to each other. If, then, by any contrivance, we can turn the 
planes of polarization of two rays which, by double refraction, have been made 
to differ in llieir length of path by half an undulation, or by any odd number 
(if half undulations, so that these planes shall coincide, interference will be pro- 
duced. It is this which is done in the arrangements wliich have been described, 
by which the gorgeous colors first observed by Arago in plates of doubly re- 
fi'acting crystals, are made to appear. In the first place, the lamina must be 
doubly refracting, in order that there may be two rays. In the second place, 
it must be thin, that the difterence of length of path may be small. In the third 
place, the original light must be polarized, otherwise there will be two systems 
of interferences compensating each other, and obliterating each other's effects. 



CRYSTALLINE PLATES IN POLARIZED LIGHT. 



205 




In the fourth place, the principal plane of the lamina shonld, in order to produce 
the most complete interference, be at an azimuth of 4''3'- to the plane of original 
polarization — the two rays being, in this position of the crystal, exactly e(jual 
to each other. In the fifth place, we must observe the phenomena by means of 
an analyzer, which allows only the light polarized in a single plane to come 
to the eye, or which, like a doubly refracting prism, separates the emergent 
light which is polarized in one plane from that Avhicli is i)olarized in tlu; trairs- 
verse plane ; otherwise in this case again we shall have; the blended efiects of 
two compensatory interferences. Finally, the principal plane of the analyzer 
should, in order to produce the best effect, be at an azimuth of 45° from the 
principal plane of the lamina. The necessity of this coiidition may be readily 
deduced from the law of Mains. The annexed figure may illustrate the changes 

which take place in the passage of the ray 
^Bco through the system. If the arrow, P, rep- 

_2?/ ^-^^^^^^M^ resent the direction of an elementary mo- 

^^^f'"" lecular movement of the original polarized 
ray, this movement will be resolved in the 
lamina into two movements at right anglea 
''^' "■'' to each other, and each inclined 45° to V, 

as shown by the arrows Ro {^^(^ ordinary ray) and Ilg (the extraordinary.) 
Suppose these rays to emerge, without difference of path, from the lamina, and 
to be received upon a crystal of Iceland sj)ar whose principal plane coincides 
with the direction of P. .Then R^ will be resolved into Rqo and Roe; and R^ 
will be resolved into Roo and Rye- Rqo and R^o will conspire, and Roo and R^.^ 
will conflict. The first pair, on the supposition we have made, v.'ill only bo 
effective. The second will destroy each other. 

But Ro is retarded (in the case of a negative crystal) behind R^,. Let the 
retardation amount to an odd number of half undulations, and the arrangement 

of the illustrative arrows will be what is 
seen here. In this case the pair in the prin- 
cipal plane of the analyzer conflict and arc 
destroyed ; while the pair in the transverse 
plane conspire. And this represents Avhat 
actually occurs, when the thickness of the 
lamina is such as to produce exactly the 
amount of retardation here supposed. 
But since the undulations of the component rays of white light are unequal 
in length, the retardation which will be sufficient to suppress one color, will not 
entirely suppress the others. The ray R„o+Reo will not therefore be wholly 
extinguished, but will exhibit a color which will be the resultant of the unsup- 
pressed tints. Moreover, the retardation which produces perfect coincidence in 
the ray Roe-f Ree for o^^ color, will not do the same for the rest. There will 
therefore be a color in this ray also, in which the tint suppressed in the other 
plane will be predominant. It is to be observed, however, that when the plate is 
so extremely thin that the retardation suffices only to produce a difference of 
path equal to a single half undulation of the mean ray of the spectrum, or less 
than this, no color will appear. And the reason will be obvious, if Ave consider 
that, though the undulations of the different colors are unequal, their inequal- 
ities as compared with the total length of the mean undulation are not great. 
The undulations of the middle violet, middle green, and middle red — the extreme 
and mean colors of the spectrum — are approximately in the ratio of the-num- 
bers 17, 21, and 26. A retardation of half an undulation of the green would 
therefore be about the fourth part more than a half undulation of the violet ; 
and a fifth part less than a half undulation of the red. But a retardation of 
Jive half undulations of the green Avouhl be not far from six half undulations 
of the violet or Jour of the red. The violet and the red, therefore, having in 



—jp 




206 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

this case lost (approximately) au even number of lialf undulations, will comport 
themselves, on being restored to the original plane of polarization, as if they had 
lost nothing at all ; while the green, which has lost an odd number, will inter- 
fere and be extinguished. The tint observed in this plane will accordingly be 
the resultant of red and violet ; which, on account of the comparative feebleness of 
the violet, will be but a slightly modified red. In the transverse plane, however, 
the red and violet will interfere and be extinguished, while the green compon- 
ents will reinforce each other, and produce their characteristic tint. 

It will be seen that the planes of polarization of the pairs of rays which pro- 
duce the complementary effects we have been speaking of, imdergo two succes- 
sive movements. The first movement ififrom the original plane of polarization. 
The second movement is, for one pair of rays, similar to this, and for the other, 
opposite. The opposite movements restore the pair of rays which they affect, 
back to the original plane of polarization : the similar movements carry tho 
other pair of rays into the transverse plane. 

If there Avcre no difference of path introduced in the passage of the lamina, 
or in the case that the difference of path produced were always an even number 
of half undulations, two movements in contrary directions would simply restore 
the ray to its original condition, and produce no interference ; while two move- 
ments in the same direction would extinguish it entirely. But if an odd number 
of half undulations has in any case been lost, two successive contrary move- 
ments will extinguish the ray, and two slmUar ones will restore its original con- 
dition. A single half undulation of the mean ray of the spectrum lost, will pro- 
duce a total, or almost total, extinction of the light, after two contrary move- 
ments ; and will produce sensibly white light after two similar movements. 
Plates so thin as to produce a difference of path less than this, Avill fail to ex- 
tinguish the light in cither plane; but, as the thickness goes on diminishing, 
the original plane will gain and the transverse plane will lose ; until, when the 
thickness is zero, the light will be entirely restored in the first, and entirely 
lost in the second. 

It is common to speak of polarized light which has passed in this manner 
throuMi a thin crystalline lamina, as having undergone depolarization in the 
lamina: an expression which seems to imply that it is restored to the condition 
of common light. This, however, is not true. There is one analogy between 
the cases, Avhich consists in the fact that the vibrations of common light, when 
resolved into components parallel to two planes passing through the direction 
of the ray and normal to each other, are equivalent to those of the two ray.s 
into Avhich the one original polarized ray is divided by the lamina. But the 
great dissimilarity of pliysical condition between the two is evidenced by the 
fact that in the one case the analyzer produces colors, while in the other it does 
not. There is a particular thickness of the lamina which produces something 
more resembling depolarization. It is that at which one ray is retarded behind 
the other a single quarter of an undulation. In this case the analyzer finds an 
equal amount of light in both planes, and in fact in all planes ; so that, so far 
as this test is concerned, the light is truly depolarized. But we have already 
learned that this amount of dislocation of the rectangular components of molecular 
movement in a plane polarized ray — the components being equal — produces 
circular polarization. And iu fact, the most convenient mode of producing cir- 
cularly polarized light is to employ for the purpose what is called a "quarter- 
wave lamina." Such a lamina will convert a plane polarized ray, incident upon 
it in azimuth 4o^ to its principal section, into a circularly polarized ray. 

When the lamina which is the subject of experiment is so thick that the 
difference of path between the two rays amounts to many half undulations, 
then no color can be totally extinguished in either plane. For it must be 
remembered that each color occupies a considerable space in the spectrum, and 
therefore has undulations belonging to it of many different lengths. The dif- 



CHROMATICS OF POLARIZED LIGHT FORMULAE. 



207 



^'P-^^ 




feronces may be slight, but slight values many times repeated become largo 
values at last; so that two red rays whose phases are for several undulations 
sufficiently unlike to conflict, may, after a larger number, be nearly enough alike 
to conspire. If the numbers 21 and 22 represent the lengths of two undulations 
of green, after a retardation of eleven times the length of the former, the latter 
will have fallen half an undulation behind it. Thus, after a certain amount 
of retardation is reached, there will be found rmdulations of all colors im- 
part irdl}' distributed through all varieties of phase, and the chromatic phenomena 
above described will cease. 

A general expression for all these phenomena 
may be found as follows : Let PP' be the plane 
of jjolarization of the original ray ; QQ' the princi- 
pal plane of the lamina; 1111' the conjugate plane; 
1)0' the principal plane of the analyzer, which we 
will suppose to be a doubly refracting prism or 
rhomb of Iceland spar; and EE' its conjugate 
plane. Draw PA, PB, perpendicular to QQ' and 
IIR'; BE, BG perpendicular to EE',00'; and AD, 
All perpendicular to EE', 00'. Then if CP rep- 
resent the velocity of molecular movement in the 
original ray, C A and CB will represent its equiva- 
lent components in the directions IMl and Q'Q. 
If these components be further decomposed in 
the directions 00' and EE', we shall have the original velocity CP represented 
by the four elements CCr, GII in the principal plane, and CD, CE in the con- 
jugate plane of the analyzer. 

Ilepresent the original velocity CP by V. Put the angle PCQ=«, and the 
angle PC( )— j. Then the angle OCQ w'iU be a— ,3. The triangles PC A, PGB 
giveCA=Vsina; CB=Vcosa. And the triangles ACD = ACH, and BCE=BCG, 
give CD=Vsinacos(« — p') ; CF = Vcorjasin(a — ,3); CG=Vcosmcos(« — 8) ; 
CH=Vsin«sin(a — ^s). Then, to find the resultant of CG-, ClI, the molecular 
velocities of the two rays emergent in the plane 00' — that is, of the emergent 
ordinary ray — we recur to the general equation — 

A^ = ci^ + rt'2 + 2aa'cos0. 

in which we must substitute for a and a' the values of CGnnd CII given above; 
and for t^he amount of retardation in phase of one of the rays behind the 
other in passing the lamina, which, if /i represent the actual difi'erence in length 

of path, may be represented by 2--. The equation just stated may be con- 

A 

veniently transformed by adding 2aa' — 2aa' to the second member, wlum it will 
become — 

A2 = a^^a'^^2aa'—2aa' + 2aa'co8f}. 

Or A^ = {a + a'f—2aa'{l—cosO) = (a-\-a')^—iaa'fimVjO. 

Substituting now the values of a, a', and 0, we obtain — 



A^rziV^I [cosacos(a — /5)-|-sinc(sin(a — fi)\- — 4sinacosasin(r/ — /5)cos(ct — /5) 



^0' 



Which may be reduced to the following entirely equivalent forms : 
A2 = V2 TcosV + fcos2(2«-;^i) -cos^.Sjsin^/ 



A2=: V^ Tcos^/J - [^m\2a-l3) - sin^/Sj sin^/^ 1 . 



[37.] 
[38.1 



208 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

And by pursuing a similar course with the values of the components CD, 
OF, of the extraordinary ray, we shall obtain for its resultant intensity the two 
values, also equivalent to each other — 

A'2 = V2rsinV+[sin2(2a-/5)-sin2/S]sin2-'^1 [39.] 

A'^^V^Tsin^;? -[cos2(2a-/5)-cos2/?]siu2-n [40.-] 

The intensity of the light in either plane is thus expressed in a formula of 
two terms, one of which is affected by interference, while the other is not. It 
is from the second that the colorific effects proceed — directly, when this term is 
positive relatively to the first, and indirectly when it is relatively negative. 
This term may therefore be called the chromatic term, and the other the achro- 
matic. 

In considering these equations we observe, first, that if we add either valite 
of A^ to either value of A'^, the chromatic tei-m disappears. The colors arc 
therefore complementary; and if blended, the resultant is white. 

Secondly, since A^+A'^^zV^l^cos^/J-f-sinV)— V^ the sum of the two intensi- 
ties is equal to the intensity of the original ray ; as it ought to be on the princi- 
ple of the preservation of living forces. 

k 
Thirdly, the chromatic effects being dependent on the factor sin^- for their 

character, will bo dependfiut not only upon this factor, but also on the coefficient, 
sin^t 2(/. — \i) — sin^/3, or cos^(2a — Q) — cosV, for their quantity. Their greatest values 
will hence occur when this coefBcient is maximum. There being two variables, 
a and /?, if we make the first constant, wc shall find maxima when cos2(a — /?)=:0, 
or cos2(/? — a)=0. This gives a series of values for 2(a — ?) or 2(/3 — a.\, 
which are 90° and its odd multiples. It is sufficient to consider the first, which 
gives a — ,'3=45°, or '} — a=45°; from which c=i|5+45°, or a=i{i — 45°. For 
the higher values we need only replace 45° by the numbers 135°, 225'^, 315°, 
&c., successively. These values substituted in the coefficient all give the same 
result; hence all the maxima dependent on /3 alone are equal; and it is obvious 
that they are independent of a, since a is not a function of /3. If we find, then, 
the maximum with reference to a, and substitute in the resulting expression, 
instead of /3, its value =:art45°, as obtained above, we shall have the maximum 
of the maxima, or the azimuths of Q.Q' and 00', in which the chromatic effects 
are the most brilliant possible. The solution gives sin(4a — 2/3)n=0. Hence 
4a — 2/?=0, or 1S0°, or 360°, &c. Contenting ourselves with the first value, 
and substituting for /3, we have 4« — 2o(^90°^0, or a=rrT45°. And as /j^ai 45°. 
we conclude that the arrangement in which the colors will be most brilliant 
is that in which the principal plane of the lamina is inclined 45° to the plane of 
polarization of the incident light, and in which the principal plane of the 
analyzer is in azimuth 0° or 90° — theoretic conclusions already anticipated 
by experiment. 

Fourth, attending to the first of the formula3 for A^ and A'^ we see that the 
chromatic term in each is symbolically positive. If the term, therefore, is essen- 
tially positive in itself, the color of the ray is the color which the interference 
expressed by that term would produce, diluted with such an amount of white 
light as is expressed by the achromatic term. When the chromatic term in th(! 
same formulaj becomes essentially negative, the color will be that which is left by 
subtracting its own color from the amount of white in the achromatic term. 
That the subtraction will be possible — that is to say, that, when the chromatic 
term is negative, the achromatic term will always be the greater — will be evident 
on inspection. For examining the coefficient of the chromatic term within the 
bracket, it Avill be seen to consist of apositive and negative element, which elements. 



CHROMATICS — DISCUSSION OF THE FORMULAE. 209 

being squares, liavc tlieir essential the same aa their writton signs ; hut the 
negative element of this coefficient is the same as the positive achromatic term. 
Hence the entire coefficient can never be greater than the achromatic term; and 
can only be equal to it in the single case when cosine or sine (2a — (i)=0. But 

the chromatic term has another factor, sin^^r, which is always less than unity, 

except when 7i is an integral odd number of half undulations. This, therefore, 
usually still further reduces the value; so that neither of the expressions for 
intensity can ever become negative. 

Fifth, if /3 remain constant, the value of the chromatic term will vary with a, 
and may even become zero Avhen m=:/3. The force of the color will therefore 
undergo corresponding variations ; and all color will disappear in the case just 
mentioned. The same also will be true when a=r/5-f-90°, /3-}-180°, &c., (fee. 
But though, in these positions of the lamina white light only is seen, the color 
reappears for values of a intermediate between /3 and .^-f-90°, /3-)-90° and 
/34-180'^, &;c. ; and this color is the same as before, since the sigu of the chro- 
matic term does not change. When a is constant and /? varies, the color in like 
manner rises and descends in brilliancy, having a minimum =0, at the values 
P^a, /3=a-|_90° and P=a-\.180° , &c. But as, in passing each of these successive 
values, the coefficient of the chromatic term, as is evident on inspection, changes 
its essential sign from positive to negative, or the contrary, the tints observed in 
the successive quadrants will be complementary to each other. 

Sixth, Avhen a=0°, 90°, ISO'^, &c., the chromatic term disappears for evpry 
value of /3. In this case the light remains white throughout the entire revolu- 
tion of the analyzer, and one or the other of the achromatic terms disappears, 
for the azimuths /3=0°, /5=90°, &c. 

Seventh, if wt- suppose the lamina and th? analyzer both to remain .-stationary 
while the polarizer revolves, we shall see that the chromatic term changes its 
sign in the course of every quarter revolution. For example, since tlic change 
of plane of original polarization affects the azimuths of the lamina and of the 
analyzer equally, if we suppose a revolution of 90° in the negative direction, 
the coefficient cos2(2a— ;?)— cos^;? becomes cos\2a-\-]S0°—90^—i3)—cos^^90^ 
+/5)=cos2(90°+2«— /?)— cos2(9a°+/3)=sin2(2a— ;9)— sin^/?. But, by reference 
to the two equivalent values of A^, [37. J [38,] we see that cos^(2a — jS) — cos^/?= 
— (sin^(2a — /5) — sinV) Hence, in the rotation of the plane of polarization 
through an arc of 90°, the coefficient of the chromatic term passes from positive 
to negative or the contrary. If we suppose a i-evolution of 180° still in the 
negative direction, we shall find the sign once more the same as in the original 
expression. Thus, cos2(2a — fi) — cos^ becomes cos2(2a-f-360° — 180° — ;?) — 
cos2(180°+,3)=:=cos2(180°+2a— ;5)— cos2(180°+/5)=^cos2(2a— ,5)— co.s2,?. If we 
suppose the rotation in the opposite direction, the alternations are similar. 

It is, hence, manifest that unless the light employed in these experiments be 
originally ])olarized, no chromatic phenomena will make their appearance. For 
unpolarizcd light being made up of successive undulations impartially distributed 
through all azimuths, those which are embraced within any one quadrant will 
neutralize the effects of those within the adjacent one, the complementary colors 
produced by each similarly situated pair succeeding each other with such rapidity 
as to blend their effects upon the retina. 

Eighth, if wc consider the factor sin^--, we shall see that, when /i=lX, iU. 

f z'., &c., the value of this factor is unity, Avhich is its greatest possible value. 
The chromatic effect is, therefore, greatest when the retardation of one ray upon 
the other is an odd numbfr of half undulations. If, in this case, ,9=2a, then 
A^^V^, and A'2=0. If /3-=2a+90°, A^^O, and A'^^V^. Supposing, there- 



210 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

fore, the ligbt liomogeueous, the apparent phones of pohivization of the emergent 
rays will be in azimuths 2a and 2a+9()°. 

Ninth, if A=A, 21, ^l, &c., sin''^-- =0 ; and the equations become simplified 

A 

to the forms 

A2==V2cos/3 ; and A'^^V^sin^^?, 
which are a reproduction of the law of Mains. The interposition of the lamina 
produces, therefore, no apparent change in the plane of original polarization. 

Tenth, if A=4"A, f A, -f^ &c. — that is to say, an odd number of quarter undula- 
tions — sin^-- becomes sin'45°=J. If, then, a=45°, the equations become — 

A2=V2[cos2,3+i(sin2/3— cos2/5)]=iV^cos^3+sin2/3)==W^ 
A'2=V^[sin--/3+l (cosV— sin'/3)]=-^-V2(sin2i3-f cosV3 =i V^. 

This result, being independent of the value of /3, indicates an apparent depo- 
larization of the light. But in fact, it is the case of circular polarization, which 
we have already considered. It will be seen that it is necessary to the produc- 
tion of the effect that a should be 45°, in order that the two normally polarized 
rays may be equal to each other. In any other azimuth of the lamina, the 
polarization will be elliptical. 

If a lamina of crystal cut at right angles to the axis be employed, then in 
the direction of the central incident light the two rays are of equal velocity, 

and the factor - =0. No chromatic efiects will therefore be perceived in the 

centre. But the rays which come to the eye converging from points not central, 
will differ in velocity, the difference increasing with the obliquity. As every 
plane which passes through the axis is a principal plane, there will be an infinite 
number of principal planes intersecting each other in the line which forms the 
path of the central ray, the projections of which upon the surface of the lamina 
will form so many radii diverging from a centre. And as all planes which are 
parallel to the axis, however placed, are principal planes also, it is obvious 
that the planes normal to these radiating principal planes will form cylindrical 
principal sections having a common axis. The plane ef polarization of the 
incident light can only coincide with one of the radiating principal planes. For 
that plane, the valtie of « in our formuhTc will be 0°. For the principal plane 
at right angles to that, the value of a will be 90°. But we have seen that when 
a=0° or 90°, the value of the chromatic term is 0. Hence there will be two 
planes in which no color will appear for any position of the analyzer — that is, 
for any value of /3. But the brightness of the light seen in those planes will 
undergo variations of intensity, as /3 varies, according to the law of Malus. 

For every plane except the two which have just been mentioned, the chromatic 
term will have a value — very slight in the neighborhood of those planes, and 
maximum at 45°. Very near to the centre, converging rays will have but a 
slight obliqtiity to the axis ; and as a difference in length of path of oue-qtiarter 
of an undulation or less fails to produce color in white light, there will be a 
central area which will be alternately white and black as the analyzer turns. 
From this area will proceed at right angles the arms of a cross, alternately 
dark and bright, which, from the faintness of the color in the neighborhood of 
azimuths 0° and 90°, will have a very sensible breadth. 

At that degree of convergt^ncy which makes the amount of I'etardation for 
the most refrangible rays =.]/, will appear the first decided chromatic effect. 
And as, in a plate of unifnrm thickness, this convergency must be the same on 
every side, the color will take the form of a ring. This ring will be bright if 
the analyzer is crossed upon the polarizer; in the opposite position, dark. In 
order to observe the phenomena to the greatest advantage, it is best to employ 
homogeneous light. Then at greater couvergencies, corresponding to retarda- 



EINGS SEEN IN CIRCULARLY POLARIZED LIGHT. 



211 



tions, or values of h, equal to \l., |A, &c., will be seen, with the crossed analyzer, 
other bright rings; while at the intermediate couvergencies, corresponding to 
value.^ of h=-K 2/, oX, &c., will be seen dividing rings, intens<'ly dark. When 
white light is used, the dark rings will be mainly occupied by the smaller rings 
of the colors whose undulations are shorter than the mean, or the larger rings 
of those which are longer. Since the retardation depends directly upon the 
convergency, and the place of a ring of any color depends on the equality of 
the retardation with the length of a half undulation of that color, it will be 
evident without further demonstration, that the longer the undulation the larger 
the ring, and vice versa. 

Rotating the crystalline plate in azimuth will produce no change in the phe- 
nomena. For in all positions of the plate there will always be one principal 
plane in azimuth 0"^, and another in azimuth 90^. 

Rotating the analyzer will cause the rings to pass by progressive changes 
into the complementary tints. In this rotation ;? becomes :='/ and >a succes- 
sively for every one of the radiating principal planes which it passes, up to 
^:=90^. The sign of the chromatic term changes, therefore, in every such case. 
And, as the sign changes also for /S=:a±90', yS=::a±iSO\ or /?=:a±270^, the color 
in all the quadrants will undergo similar changes simultaneously. Thus, in an 
entire revolution of the analyzer, the colors will be four times successively 
reversed ; and for every position in which /33r45'^ or any of its odd multiples 
they will disappear. 

The remarkable dislocation of the rings seen in crystals cut across the axis, 
when examined in circularly polarized light, has been mentioned. By applying 
the principles we have been considering we shall be able now to account for this 
singular cifect. Suppose the crystal under examination to be a positive one, in 
which the ordinary ray has a higher velocity than the extraordinary. When a 
circularly polarized ray falls upon such a crystal, its component undulations, 
which, as we have seen, are at right angles to each other, Avith nodes dislocated 
by a quarter of an undulation, will advance with unequal velocities, and the 
amount of their nodal discrepancy will be changed. This would not disturb 
the symmetry of the rings, if the change were similar in all the quadrants. By 
attending to the following analysis, we shall see that such is not the case. 




pV 



Let RR' represent the direction of progress of a circularly polarized wave, 
of which the component molecular movements are represented by PP' and QQ-'. 
The positions of these arrows are those in which the molecular movements of 
their respective undulations are assumed to be at tlieir maximum of velocity, 
and the distance between them, upon the line RR', is to be taken as represent- 
ing a quarter of an undulation. If Ave consider the effect of this composition of 
forces upon a molecule in the plane of movement of QQ', we shall perceive that 



212 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

PP' will there be about commencing the return movement, in the direction 
denoted by P", while QQ' will be in the height of its activity. 

The actual position of" the molecule in the orbit described on QQ' as a dia- 
meter will in fact be at M ; but QQ' and P" may be taken as representing the 
directions of motion at the instant supposed. Let ACBD be a plate of the 
crystal cut across the axis, and let the analyzer (not represented) have the plane 
of its free molecular movement parallel to AB. Draw CD at right angles to 
AB, dividing the crystal into four quadrants. 

As all the molecules in the wave front are actuated by similar movements, it 
will be sufficient to consider one of them in each quadrant. Let their several 
component forces be represented by the arrows marked p q, each pair having 
the same relations to each other as PP' QQ'. It will be possible, in every 
quadrant, to draw a radius parallel to p or q. Let these radii be drawn. Now, 
the radii being principal sections of the crystal, that component in each case 
whose direction of movement coincides with the radius, will (if at all inclined to 
the axis) be an extraordinary ray, and will be retarded behind the other compo- 
nent. An inspection of the figure will show that this will happen for p in the 
first and third quadrants, and for q in the second and fourth. Let the inclination 
of the rays to the axis be such as to cause a retardation of the extraordinary ray 
of one quarter of an undulation behind the ordinary. Then, by comparing the 
position? of the arrows which represent the relations of the components after 
emergence, it will be seen that the effect has been to bring the planes of maxi- 
mum molecular movement into coincidence in the second and foui'th quadrant, 
and to increase the distance between them to half an undulation in the first and 
third. 

But these changes are just what is required to obliterate the nodal dislo- 
cations in both cases, so that the waves will emerge plane. The resultant 
molecular movements in the second and fourth quadrants will be obviously 
vertical and parallel to AB. At the inclination or distance from the centre, 
therefore, which produces this amount of retardation, will be seen in these 
quadrants the first bright ring. Had the incident light been plane-polarized, 
however, the first ring would not have appeared until after a retardation of a 
half instead of a quarter undulation had takeu place ; it would have conse- 
quently required a greater inclination of the incident ray, and its apparent 
distance from the centre would have been increased. In the first and third 
quadrants, the resultant molecular movement may be inferred by referring the 
two components p and q to a common plane. If q be referred to the plane of 
p, for example, then, as the distance between them in the figure is half an un- 
dulation, the arrow q must be reversed, and the resultant movement will be 
horizontal. The analyzer will suppress this movement ; or, in other words, at 
this distance in the first and third quadrants will appear a dark ring. In these 
quadrants there will not appear a bright ring until the retardation is increased 
half an undulation more ; that is to say, to'the total amount of three quarters 
of an undulation. Plane polarized light would have required a total retardation 
of only a half undulation to exhibit this ring. In the first and third quadrants, 
therefore, the briffht riug-s are removed outward, and in the second and fourth 
they are removed inward, from the places they are seen to occupy in plane- 
polarized light, for a distance corresponding to a difference of a quarter of an 
undulation. 

From what has been said, it will be easy to undei'Stand why two crystalline 
lamina?, of equal thickness, and cut from a crystal parallel to its axis, or equally 
inclined to the axis, when crossed upon each other, neutralize each other's 
effects. For the original polarized ray is, by the first lamina, divided into two 
which we have represented by Ro, He- I^i the supposed relative position of the 
two lamina? the ray Yx^. passes without double refraction in the principal plane 
of the second crystal, and the ray Il„ in the conjugate plane. After emergence, 



RINGS IN CRYSTALS OP TWO AXES. 213 

and before analysis, therefore, the two rays may be i-epresentccl by Roe and 
lleo> which symbols show that each has been equally modified in its passage 
through the system, and hence, that they reach IIk:' analyzer without any differ- 
ence of path. In the foregoing formulae, accordingly, 7(i,=0 for this case, and 
the chromatic term disappears. 

We also obtain an explanation of the effects produced .by inclining the lamina 
to the incident light. In general, the increased thickness of the crystal which 
the rays will have to traverse at an oblique incidence, will have the effect to 
increase the value of h, and the colors will descend, or take the tints belonging 
to thicker plates. But the new direction of the rays within th<; crystal may be 
one in which their difference of velocity is greater or less than that which 
belongs to the direction of perpendicular incidence. In this case the tints will 
descend more rapidly by inclining in one direction than they do when the in- 
clination is opposite ; or they may possibly remain stationary, or rise on one 
side and descend on the other. We suppose here as before that the analyzer is 
crossed upon the polarizer 

Crystals of two axes, cut at right angles to either axis, will exhibit elliptical 
rings, the variations of velocity of the two rays being subject to different laws 
in the principal plane which contains the two axes, and in two other principal 
planes co-ordinate to that. When the axes are not largely inclined to each other, 
a lamina of the crystal taken perpendicularly to the line bisecting the angle 
between them will exhibit both systems at once. In these crystals neither ray 
obeys, in general, the law of Snellius. But there are thi-ee planes — those just 
mentioned — in which one of the rays obeys this law. These three planes are, 
in the first place, that which passes through both axes ; and, secondly, both the 
planes normal to the first, which bisect the angles between the axes. The terms 
" ordinary ray " and " extraordinary ray." in the sense in which those words 
have been used, in speaking of crystals of one axis, are inapplicable in the 
present case. 

The following equation, deduced by Fresnel from the general theory of double 
refraction, expresses the relation between the velocities of two rays travei-sing 
the crystal in the same direction, but possessing the diflering polarizations 
produced by its double refraction : 

1 1 /I 1\ . . , , , 

-J^~-.= [^--:)^^^9^^^9'^ [41.] 

In this formula, v and v' are the two variable velocities; a and c are the Snel- 
Uan velocities (constant) in the two principal planes co-ordinate to that which 
contains the axes ; and <p and (p' are the angles made by the common direction 
of the two rays with the axes themselves. 

It may be remarked that the rays whose velocities are here denoted by v and 
•i/, cannot be the two rays which proceed from one incident ray, since these two 
rays do not pursue the same course within the crystal. This consideration is 
not important, when the divergence of the rays produced by double refraction 
is small, (which is the case with most crystals of two axes, and with all for rays 
in the vicinity of the axes themselves ;) and therefore we may employ this law 
for the purpose of determining the forms of the colored rings, in plates cut 
so as to make it possible to observe both axes at once. Putting vv'=^ac and 

v-\-v'=^2^ ac, suppositions which arc sensibly true near the axes, the formula 
gives — 

r— .'=-_p^, (-,^-j sm^^smco'-g-^-smsrsms.', (very nearly.) 

As we propose to confine the inquiry to the immediate vicinity of the axes, 
where f and ^' are small, we may take the angles themselves, or their chords. 



214 



UNDULATORY THEOEY OF LIGHT. 



instead of their sines, 
comes — 



Let these chords be r and r' . 



Then the equation be- 




a^ — (T 
which, if V — v' be made constant, is the equation of 
a lemniscaic. The annexed figure represents a Icm- 
niscate, or curve whose distinguishing property is 
that the products of every pair of radii vcctores, 
drawn from two poLar points, and intersecting in the 
curve, arc eq\ial to each other, and to a constant 
quantity. If PQ, the distance between the poles, 
be bisected at A. and PA made = q, then the con- 
stant vahie of Pllx QR, divided by q, is called the 

]>ara7nctcr, and may be represented by j>. Put Prt = r, QR = ?-', AN = x, and 

RN = y. The construction gives, immediately — 

r''^z=[qj^x)^-\.7f; r-={q — x)'^-\-')/i whence 

Or rh-'-'^{q^+a?+iff—^q^x~=/q^. [43.] 

In the case in hand, the parameter is the quotient found by dividing the 
second member of the equation for the velocities, in its last form, by q. The 
value of q itself may Ibe directly measured, if the 
chromatic image be thrown upon a screen, as was 
done by Sir John Herschel in his study of the forms 
of these curves ; or it may be assumed at pleasure, 
from a knoAvledge of the angle between the axes. 
Thus, if AB(JD be the lamina, and aa' , hh' the axes, 
then, to the eye at E the poles are a and b in direc- 
tions parallel to aa' and bb' ; and half their distance 
is the value of q. The rings, however, may be re- 
ferred to any distance, as EP; and the poles will then 
be at Q and R The distance EP and the angle REQ are all that is necessary 
to determine q, which is now PQ. It must be observed, howevei-, that for a 
projection on this scale, the value of the constant, or second member of the 
conation above, must be increased in the ratio of the square of the distance of 
QR to that of AB from the eye. 

When the direction in which the rays reach the eye is such that the differ- 
ence of path of the two rays is half an undulation, tlaere will be seen, in homo- 
geneous light — the analyzer being crossed upon the polarizer — the first bright 
rin"-. When the difference becomes an entire undulation, the first dai'k ring 
will appear. The parameter of the lemniscate changes with every new ring. 
For the bright rings, the parameters will evidently form an arithmetical series, 
correspondmg to the odd numbers 1, 3, 5, 7, &:c. For the dark rings there will 
be a similar series of values, proportional to the even numbers. 

The Icmniscates are not perfect, (though some of them are nearly so,) because 
Ave have admitted some small errors into our assumption. The inner curves 
also will, in many cases, form ellipses around a single pole. It is obvious that 
this must be the case when the constant is less than q^. For q^ is the smallest 
value that the product of the radii vectores can have; and when the parameter 
is not equal to q, there can be no lemniscate. 

When the analyzer is crossed upon the polarizer, in observing these curves, 
if the plane of the axes is in the plane of polarization of the incident light, 
there will be seen a black cross intersecting the system symmetrically; the 
principal bar of which will coincide with the plane of the axes. The transverse 
bar will pass at right angles to this, half way between the poles. In these two 




DOUBLE EEFRACTION. 215 

planes there is (in the j^osition of tlic crystal supposed) no double i-efraction of 
the incident polarized ray. The light is therefore transmitted without interriip- 
tion, and being cut off by the analyzer, shows the dark cross. By rotating the 
analyzer 90<^, the cross becomes bright, as with crystals of one axis. But when 
the crystal itsidf is turned in azimuth, while the analyzer remains in one of the 
principal azimuths, the arms of the cross break at the centre, two of them on 
each side forming together a curve. At 45'^, the two curves present the appear- 
ance of opposite hyperbolas. 

To follow these changes analytically would require a larger acquaintance 
Avith the physical theory of double refraction than is furnished in what precedes. 
We will therefore, next in order, turn our attention to that subject. 

5 XL DOUBLE EEFRACTION. 

We have seen that the double refraction of light is always attended with 
polarization. It is proposed now to attempt a physical explanation of this 
phenomenon. 

Refraction, in general, considered as a' bending of the ray, is owing to a 
change in the velocity of the wave as it enters the refracting medium. When 
the refraction is double — in other words, when a single wave is divided by re- 
fraction into two waves — the velocities of the two Avaves must be unequal. It 
is presumed that this difference of velocities is owing to a difference of elasticity 
of the ether within the medium. But, inasmuch as the two rays often follow 
the same track, each with its own determinate velocity, while they remain quite 
distinct from each other, it is evident that their velocities cannot be determined 
by the elasticity of the ether in the direction of their progress. It becomes 
therefore a necessity to assume that their molecular movements are transverse 
to the ray, and in the surface of the wave itself. TlxGfact of double refraction 
is thus an incontrovertible proof of tiie truth of the doctrine of transverse vibra- 
tions, independently of the many evidences of the same truth derived from po- 
larizati(m and the phenomena of interference. 

But inasmuch as, in a medium in which the elasticity of the ether varies ac- 
cording to a certain law, the elasticity Avill usually be different in each of the 
indefinite number of planes which may pass through a given ray, it follows that 
if the ray pursue a determinate course Avith a constant velocity, its transverse 
vibrations must be confined to some determinate plane. Double refraction in- 
volves, therefore, as an indispensable condition, polarization; and, as a general 
rule, plane polarization Avould seem to be the necessity. 

Experiment proves that these theoretic inferences are correct; and also that 
the phines of polarization of the tAvo rays which originate from a single incident 
ray, in a doubly refracting body, are at right angles to each other. Tavo ques- 
tions present themselves, therefore, for solution: First, hoAV is the direction of 
molecular movement in a polarized ray related to the plane of polarization ? and 
secondly, Avhat cause determines this movement in the doubly refracting body, 
to these particular directions? 

In regard to the first question, Ave may arrive at a conclusion, by considering 
the case of a crystal of one optic axis, like Iceland spar. If we suppose such 
a crystal to be ground to a perfect sphere and polished, a ray incident perpen- 
dicularly upon any part of its STirface Avill coincide in direction Avith the radius 
of the sphere. Such a ray falling upon a sphere of homogeneous glass Avould 
pass undivided through the centre. But Avith the sphere of crystal Avhich avc 
have supposed, there is but one diameter iuAvhich this Avill happen. This is the 
diameter coincident with the optic axis; and in this direction there is no double 
refraction. If the incident ray is common or unpolarized light, (a supposition 
which is to be understood in all that folloAvs,) the emergent ray Avill be unpo- 
larized also. And, as the molecular movements of common light are iu all 



216 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

aziraiUhs around the ray, it is evident tliat the elasticity of the ether iu the 
crystal is the same in all directions at right angles to the optic axis. The mo- 
ment, however, that we depart from the pole of the sphere — maintaining still a 
perpendicular incidence upon its surface — a second ray makes its appearance. 
The light is now equally divided. A part, which we call the ordinary ray, still 
follows the radius and passes through the centre of the sphere. The other 
portion is bent at the surface, and cro.^scs the diameter in which we found no 
double refraction, above the centre or between it and our first supposed point of 
incidence; that is, the point which we have called the pole. The deviation will 
be slight at first, and will go on for a time increasing, as we descend in latitude; 
but will afterwards diminish till we reach the equator, when it will become 
nothing. But though the deviation diminishes, the double refraction increases ; 
that is to say, the difference of velocity between the two rays becomes greater 
and greater as we approach the equator, and in that plane attains its maximum. 
Both rays now pass through the centre; but one is so far behind the other that 
two images may be seen of any object beyond, at different apparent distances 
from the eye. If the incidence be not perpendicular, the ray which has always 
passed through the centre undergoes^ refraction according to the simple law of 
Snellius, in all planes and in all azimuths ; but this is not at all true of the other. 
The inference is that the velocity of the first of these rays is always deter- 
mined by the same elastic force; which must be that force which we have seen 
to be at right angles to the axis, or parallel to the equator of our supposed 
sphere. 

And here, in order to avoid error or confusion, let it be observed that the 
line which wc have called the axis of this sphere is not the optic axis of the 
crystal, but only one of the optic axes. All lines parallel to this are equally 
optic axes. In other words, the name optic axis is the name, not of a line, but 
of a direction. 

Now if we once more follow, in mind, our ray at perpendicular incidence, 
from the pole of the sphere to the equator, wc shall see that there is no difficulty 
in imagining its molecular movements to be constantly parallel to the equator, pro- 
vided we suppose them perpendicular to that meridian plane (principal section) 
which passes through the ray and the axis of the sphere. The constant velocity 
of the ordinary ray is thus accounted for without difficulty. 

The velocity of the extraordinary ray being variable, its molecular movements 
must encounter a different elasticity in different directions of its progress. 
Moi'eover, as its plane of polarization is at right angles to that of the ordinary ray, 
its molecular movements should be so likewise. We have only to suppose these 
movements to take place in the meridian, or principal section, plane, and we 
shall see that they will turn with the ray itself, as we pass from the pole to the 
equator: so that, while, in the first position, they are parallel to the equator 
like those of the ordinary ray, they are inclined to it at increasing angles 
as we descend in latitude, and become perpendicular to it in latitude zero ; 
that is, when the ray is in the plane of the equator itself. Now this would 
make no difference in the velocity, provided the ether were equally elastic 
in all directions. As the velocity is variable, in point of fact, the conclusion 
must be that the elasticity is variable also. In the direction of the axis we 
must assume it to be greatest, and in intermediate directions to possess an inter- 
mediate force. 

Now the plane of polarization of the ordinary ray (experimentally ascertained) 
is the principal section of the crystal. And as we have been compelled to con- 
clude that the molecular movements of this ray take place at right angles to the 
principal section, it follows that, in plane polarized light, the vibrations are at 



SURFACE OF ELASTICITY. 217 

right angles to tlie plane of polarization. This settles the first of the questions 

proposed above. The second is less simple. 

If a polarized ray, Avhose molecular movements arc 
in the direction 01*, in the annexed figure, fall upon 
a lamina of doubly reftacting crystal, wliose principal 
section is MM', it undergoes double refraction in every 
case except that in which OP coincides with MM' 



<;^ ^ or NN', the conjugate plane. The effect is the same, 
^ in seeming, as if the lamina alio 




^ in seeming, as if the 'amina allowed no free passage 
for movement, except in these directions. The im- 
aginary structure presented in the figure is in ac- 
cordance with this idea. The undulations of which 
OP is an element, encountering such a structure, 
would be necessarily resolved into two movement*, 
taking the directions of the open passages ; and 

according to the laws of the resolution of forces, we should have OP^^Ot^^-f-OlF. 

Or putting I for the total intensity of the light, and a for the angle between OP 

and MM',— 

I = Icos^a-j-Isin^a, 

which is the law of Malus. 

This illustration is given merely to focilitate the conception of the constant 
determination of the ethereal vilirations in crystalline bodies to fixed directions. 
The cause must be one more general than such a mechanical structure could pos- 
sibly be. The theory of Fresnel, embracing all the cases of double refraction, 
is founded on the assumption that the elasticity of the ether may be different 
in the directions of three rectangular axes ; and among the conclusions mathe- 
matically deducible from this assumption, is the proposition that, in a medium 
so constituted, the molecular movements of an incident ray will be unstable 
except in two determinate azimuths at right angles to each other. If they are 
not in those azimuths, or one of them, on entering the medium, they will be 
instantly turned into them; and thus the ray will be polarized in planes havin"- 
different directions in the crystal. 

If we take a crystal of two axes, and form from it prisms, of one of which 
the edges shall be perpendicular to the plane containing the axes, while the 
others have their edges respectively parallel to the lines which bisect the angles 
between the axes, we shall find that, in the planes of refraction of these prisms, 
one of the rays follows the law of Sncllius ; but that the indexes of refraction 
for these arc different. These rays thus ob(>ying the ordinary law are moreover 
polarized in their several planes of refraction. Their molecular movements are 
therefore perpendicular to those planes, or parallel to the edges of the prisms, 
that is to say, parallel (by construction) to three determinate fixed lines iu the 
crystal, each at right angles to the other two. These velocities, then, determine 
the ela-'ticities in the direction of three rectangular axes. From these as constants, 
Presnel derived an equation expressing the elastic force in all intermediate 
directions. The three velocities are distinguished by the letters a, b and c, iu 
the order of their magnitude — that denoted by a being greatest. And elasticities 
being as the squares of the velocities which they generate, the three elasticities 
are c^, li^, and c^. Now if any line be taken which makes with the directions 
of the elasticities a^, l?, t^, angles represented by A, 13 and 0, and if It denote 
the velocity which the elasticity in the direction of that line is capable of gen- 
ei-ating, then we shall have the equation — 

R2z=«2cos2A-l-//cos2B-|-62cos2C. [44.J 

Giving A, B, and C all possible values. It will have all possible directions ; 
aaid. considered as a radius vector, its extremity will describe a surface the 



218 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

squares of wliose radii will be equal to the elasticities in their directions. This 
surface, therefore, Fresncl denominated the surface of elasticity. * 

The surface, as might be inferred from the principle of its construction, is an 
ellipsoid, of three unequal axes. 

Now, it is a point iraportaut-to be clearly conceived, that when, in a medium 
of variable elasticity, the equilibrium of forces is disturbed by a displacement 
of its molecules in a given direction, the resultant of elastic resistances excited 
is not generally in the line of the displacement. Were the displacement to take 
the direction of one of the axes of the surface of elasticity, the resistance would 
be directly opposed to the disturbance. But suppose it to be in the direction 
of some oblique radius ; and, to simplify the matter, suppose this radius to be 
in a plane passing through two of the axes. Let then, in Fig. 60, ADBE be 
the section, passing through AB and DE, the axes of greatest and least elas- 
ticity. Let, a molecular disturbance, which we will call 
r, take place in the direction CF ; and, for fticility of 
conception, let us take the line FO itself to represent 
the resistance it encounters in this direction. AU is a, 
and DC is c. Now, the displacement r, if it took place 
wholly in the direction of a, would develop a resistance 
proportional to rd^, or equal to Jra^, J" being a constant. 
And if it took place wholly in the direction of c, it 
would develop a different resistance =y)r^. But the 
amount of displacement in the direction of a is only 
rcosA. And that in the direction of c is only rcosG. 
Also, as A=ACF in this case, and 0=90^— ACF, we have rcosC=rsinA. 
Hence the resistances developed are yz-a^cosA, and frahiuA. Now, the first 
of these expref^sions being the horizontal component of the resistance (as the 
figure is drawn) and the second, the vertical, the second divided by the first 
will e-ive the taneent of the inclination to a, which inclination we will call A'. 

Then •{-J^=4tanA=tanA', [45.] 

y^a^cosA or ^ -" 

which is less than tanA — or the resultant is less inclined to a than FO. 

A graphic method of determining the resultant, both in magnitude and di- 
rection, is suggested by this formula. TanA' is a fourth proportional to d^, c?, 
and tanA. balling KG radius (for present purposes) FK=tanA. Draw FR 
perpendicular to DE, and join IIB. Join AE, bisect it in M, and draw MN 
perpendicular to AE. With N as a centre, describe the arc EP. Then CE^= 
c2=AC.GP. And GB2==a^=AG.GB. Or, a^. ^.2. . CB : GP. Draw, there- 
fore, PQ" parallel to BH, and QO parallel to AB. Draw FG perpendicular to 
FG, and the radius GO, through 0, to meet it in G. GG is the resultant, and 
GGA=A'. 

The resultant force consists, then, of two components — one, equal and oppo- 
site to GF, and the other FG at right angles to it. This latter force deliects 
the motion of the molecule in FG, and turns it toward the shorter or longer axis, 
aceordinc-- as the movement is one of condensation or of rarefaction. And there 
can be no stability of oscillation in this place, in any line which is not parallel 




* This polar equation may be referred to rectangular co-ordinates, by putting x, y, and z for 
the co-ordinates parallel to a, h, and c, respectively, and substituting the following values: 

R==2-2-f/4-z-. CosA=f-; cosB=:f^; cosC=|. 
' -^ K K K 

Whence ^*^=a:H'^-\-lr%f--\-(i-2?. 

Or, (z2+2/'^+:2)2=:a-x2^&2j/2.fc22^ 

which is an equation oi" the fourth degree. 



RESULTANT OF ELASTIC RESISTANCES. 



219 



to a or c. In either of those directions the displacement develops no deflecting 
force; since, in the former, cosA=i and sin A disappears; and in the latter 
shiA = l and cosA disappears. 

The arrows illustrate the relations and mutual action of these forces, and the 
corresponding movements of the molecules. During compression the disturbing 
force is CF, and the movement from C toward 1\ The opposing component 
of the resistance is C'F, and the deflecting component GF. While CF pre- 
dominates over C'F, the point of the arrow CF — that is, the direction of the 
molecular movement — will be turned nearer the direction CD. But when C'F 
predominates over CI', as in the return vibration, C'F represents the move- 
ment, and the deflecting force turns the point of the arrow C'F nearer the 
direction AC. 

The value of the resultant may be determined by means of those just given 
for its components, from the right angled triangle CGH. For this gives us, 
(putting p for the resultant, ) 

/)2=/-V2«V.os2A-F/2yVsin2A ; 

or p= A^fr Va^-os^A+c-^sin^A- 

The equation of the surface of elasticity also gives us, for the value of the 
radial resistance (denoted by //) 

//=R2y;-=//-a3co,s2A+//i-'cos2B-f/;-6'2cOs20. 

Or, as cosC=sinA, and cosB=cos90'^=0, 

Hence, if w represent the angle GCF, we shall have 



_, // , ^^cogZ^Y-i-c^sin^A 

CoSw=— =:J:: -— 

P Va'cos^A-l-c-'sin^A 



:± 



112 



Va'cos^A-t-c'-'sin^A 



[4G. 



This simple case has been 
examined in detail, in order to 
facilitate the conception of the 
more general one, which will 
now be attended to. Let a 
molecular displacement, r, occur 
in any direction whatever. Let 
CF, Fig. 61, be the direction of 
displacement, and let it be as- 
sumed as the representative of 
the force developed in that di- 
rection. As in the former 
case, if this force be resolved 
into three component forces in 
the directions of the several 
axes, the resistances developed 
will be /m^cosA, //v^'cosB, 

According to the laws of the 
composition offerees, these three 
components are in the relation 
of the three dimensions of a parallelopipedon, of which the resultant is the 
diagonal. Let CNN'GH, &c., be this parallelopipedon. CG is the resultant 
expressing the total resistance in both quantity and direction. But R'^h by 
the equation of the surface, expresses the total resistance in the direction of the 




Fiff. GL 



220 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

radius; and if, to facilitate conception and comparison, we conceive it to be 
the diagonal of another parallelopipedon, CMM'FK, &c., tbo three dimensions 
of this solid will be Ix^JrcosA, Il^frcoal^, and R^yz-cosC. For the sake of 
symmetry, we will employ for a moment these components, inst(!ad of H'^J'r 
itself. We will denote, also, as before, the two resultants by p and p' and the 
angle, GCF, between them, by w. Then, 

p' frVW^'^A+W^^'B+W^^G R2 

Cosw=;— =± — ^ 



_ , a^cos^A+i^cos^B+c^cos^C , ,^ , 

Or, cosai=4- , -- . 47. 

Va'cos^A+i^cos^B+c-^cos^C 

Now the wave front-in which r, having the direction CF, is one of the move- 
ments, cuts the surface of elasticity in an ellipse, which may be represented by 
ADBE. The line CG will not usually lie in the plane of this ellipse. If the 
resultant, p, be decomposed into two forces, one of them equal and opposite to 
/>', or CF, and the other GF, perpendicular to OF, this last tends to turn the 
movement in CF out of that line, as before. But, as it is not in the plane 
of the ellipse, ADBE, which is the wave front, in order to undcr.stand more 
clearly its effect upon the direction of movement in the plane of the Avave 
(which is all that concerns the question of polar' zation) decompose this force 
again, by drojiping, from G, the perpendicular Gil" upon the wave front, and 
joining 11"F. The component, Gil", being normal to to the wave, can produce 
no effect in the way of polarization. The other component. H"F, tends to turn 
the movement, as in the former case, alternately, in the direction of the shorter 
axis, DE, of the elliptic section of the surface of elasticity, and of the longer 
axis, AB. 

Observe that if the displacement had been originally in the direction of one 
of these axes, there would have been no deflecting force, 11"F. For this lateral 
force owes its existence to the inequality of elasticity, or resisting force, on the 
two sides of the movement of displacement. But, by the law of construction 
of the surface of elasticity, the squares of its radii are the measures of the 
elastic forces in their directions ; and at the extremities of the major and minor 
axis of an ellipse the radii on either side of the axis are equal and symmetri- 
cally disposed. 

It follows, that whenever a ray of light falls upon a medium of sucb a nature 
as we have been considering, all its movements will be thrown into parallelism 
with the two axes of the elliptic section made by its front Avith the surface of 
elastictity. And thus we have a physical account of the polarization of light 
by double refraction. 

We have, at the same time, the cause of the unequal velocity of the two 
waves. For, by the construction of the surface of elasticity, all its radii are 
measures of the velocities of undulations whose molecular movements coincide 
with them in direction. The two velocities will, accordingly, be to each other 
as the major and minor axes of the elliptic section of the surface of elasticity 
made by the Avavc front. 

We have also the cause of the polarization of the two rays in planes at right 
angles to each other. This is so, because the two axes of the ellipse are in 
that relation. 

Since the two velocities are both iniiform, though unequal, a plane wave is 
transformed into two plane waves, by double refraction. Supposing the I'efract- 
ing surface to be also plane and of indefinite extent, and that a plane wave 
enters it obliquely, the intersection of the wave front with the surface will be a 
straight line, and will advance along the surface parallel with itself, as the wave 
advances. The refracted waves necessarily both intersect the refracting surface 



CIRCULAR SECTIONS OF SURFACE OF ELASTICITY. 



OC 



21 




in the same straight line. And if we sup])oso these refracted waves to be com- 
pounded of the infinitely numerous ehimeutary waves which may be imagined 
to originate in the line of inters(!ction, each resultant refracted wav(! front will 
be a common tangent plane to all the elcminitary waves of its own kind thus 
generated. 

Though the planes of vibration of the two re.'fracted rays are originally per- 
pendicular to each other, yet the taking of different velocities slightly modifies 
this relation. The change is hardly sufficient to be sensible. 

Ther(; are two sections of the surface of elas- 
ticity which are circles. Let, for example, in the 
figure annexed, the axes of elasticity be; OX, OY, 
OZ, and let the dotted lines represent the contour 
of one-eighth of the surface of elasticity; OP 
being =«, 0A=;5, and OE=c. Upon the same 
axes, with OA=b, as radius, let there be con- 
structed a corresponding portion of tin? surface 
,of a sphere, AC13; in which AC, A13, BO are 
quadrants. Bince a is tlu; largest, and c the least 
axis, the ellipsoidal and spherical surfaces must 
cut each other somewhere between B and C. 
They will also toucli at A. Let one point of the 
intersection be at R, and through 11 pass a plane, OAU, intersecting the spherical 
surface in All. In this, take any point, as N, and draw through it the quadrants 
BNS, CNQ. Considering N as a point of the surface of the sphere, the radius 
ON=i, and we have 

/;3=i\-Os2A+Z-2cOs2B+Z»2cOs2C. 

Considering it as in the surface of the spluiroid, ON=R, and 

R2=a2cos2A+Z'-cos-B+6-2cos2C. 
If both these suppositions are true R-=Z*^; whence we deduce 

(^2— Z,2)C0S2A=(^.-— f-)c0s2C. 

If a be put for the arc CR, the inclination of the plane, ANR, to the axis a, 
then, in the triangle CNR, we have 

Cos2CN=cos2A=cos2NR cos2CR=sin=^B cos^a. 

And, in the triangle BNR, 

Cos2BN=cos2C=cos2NR cos»BR=sin2B sin^a. 

Substituting these values for cos^A and cos^C in the foregoing, and dropping 
the common factor, sin^B, 

{a^ — i-)cos^a=(i2 — t^Jsin^a 

c?—l? sin^a , 2 r» + i W~lj' rial 

And 75 A= — 5-=tan2a. Or, tana=i: / _, [48.] 

the double sign indicating two positions for the section, one in the first, and tho 



999 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 



other in the second quadrant — that is to say, indicating that there are two such 
circular sections. 

The inclination to a of the normals to these circular sections — that is, of the 
directions of progress of the waves of wlticli they are the j>lancs — will, of course, 
have for tangent the reciprocal of the expression just given ; or, if a' represent 
this inclination, 



tana'=±^ / 



[49.] 



If the wave front of the incident light coincide with one of these circular 
sections of the surface of elasticity, it appears, from the principles already laid 
down, that the wave can have no determinate plane of polarization. For all 
the radii of the section being equal, the elastic forces are in cquilibrio in every 
azimuth ; and there will be no lateral force to deflect the molecular movements. 
If, in the first expression foregoing, we make i=c, the denominator becomes zero, 
and the tangent is infinite, or tanOO^. The two circular sections then coincide 
in the plane of he at right angles to a, and the crystal is a negative crystal of 
one axis. If «=&, tanai=:0, and the two circular sections meet in the plane of 
ah at right angles to c, and the crystal is positive. If a=c, then, since h is the 

mean axis, all the axes are equal and tana^- ; an indefinite value, signifying 

that the circular sections have no fixed positions; or that all the sections are 
circular. 

Let us now apply the principles we have been con- 
sidering to the phenomena presented by crystals cut 
across the axis of greatest elasticity, or the line inter- 
mediate between the optic axes. In the accompany- 
ing figure, let QRQ'S represent one-half the surface 
of elasticity, in which SC=«:, QC=h, RC=c. Let 
PP parallel to IIR' represent the direction of molecu- 
lar movement in an incident wave, whose direction 
, of progress is S'S. Let AA represent the direction 
'^ of free molecular movement in an analyzer with which 
the crystal is observed. Also let QNOQ' represent 
one of the circular sections of this surface. The 
ellipse QIIQ'R' is the section of the wave with the 
surface of elasticity ; and the axes QQ' and RR' are 
the directions into which it turns all molecular move- 
ments in its plane. But PP being parallel to RR', 
is already in one of these directions, and hence this 
wave passes through without modification ; but en- 
countering the analyzer crossed upon it, is suppressed. 
If, instead of a single plane wave, we suppose 
many waves more or less inclined to each other, con- 
vergent toward S, and all having the general direction of molecular movement 
PP, their intersections with the surface of elasticity will be ellipses whose axes 
are variously directed. There are two planes, however, SQ,Q' and SRR', which 
will contain the axes of all sections made by waves normal to them. For it is 
easily seen that, if the plane QRQ'R' turn about RR', this line RR' will always 
be the minor axis of the section. If the same plane turn about QQ', this latter 
line will be the major axis of the section until the turning plane reaches the 
position QNQ/, when the section will be circular. Afterwards it will be again 
elliptical with QQ' for its minor axis. It follows that all the convergent waves 




Fi- 63 



RINGS SEEN IN CRYSTALS OF TWO AXES. 223 

whieli are normal to SQQ' and SRIl' will suffer no modification of their 
molecular movements ; and as the analyzer AA is cro.sscd upon them all, there 
will be seen in the field of view two dark lines, or bars, intersecting each other 
at right angles in the point 0. 

Every other converging wave will, however, make a section of which the 
axes are not in the planes SQQ' or SRR', Let, for example, the plane QIIQ'R' 
turn around the line LL', and let KK' be at right angles to LL' in the turning 
plane. Then CK gradually increases in length, while LL' remains constant. 
When CK reaches the position SC, it becomes the major axis of the section. 
The original position of the major axis being QC, it appears that, during the 
turning, it changes its azimuth by the total amount QCK, while the minor axis 
changes from CR to CL. There is therefore no position in which either of these 
axes can be parallel to PP or RR'. It follows that every convergent wave not 
normal to either of the two principal planes SQQ' or SRR' must undergo double 
refraction ; and, therefore, in passing the analyzer A A, will exhibit chromatic 
effects.- 

If now the direction of molecular movement in the incident wave be changed 
to PP' or P''P", there will immediately be double refraction in both the prin- 
ciprd planes, or the dark bars will disappear from them. But as, in the turning 
of the plane QRQ'R' round the various diameters LL', the axes ot the section 
made by the plane turn in azimuth, it is evident that some section can always 
be f ;und which at some inclination will have one axis parallel to P'P'. 

To take an extreme case, let P'P' bo 46' distant from RC, when it will be 
eqnidistant between the axes RC and Q'O. The optic axes of the crystal, 
T/hich are in the plane SRR', will then be in azimuth 45° from the plane of 
polarization. Now, since the axes of the section formed by the plane QRQ'R', as 
it turns round LL' or KK', do not reach LL' or KK' until K or L reaches S, if 
LL' be parallel to P'P', no light will come to the analyzer in the planes SLL' 
SKK', without being or doubly refracted. The dark brushes will not therefore 
appear in the central plane coinciding with, or normal to, the direction of inci- 
dent molecular movement. 

There will be other sections, however, which will have an axis parallel to LL' 
or P'P', or to KK' normal to LL'. To discover their positions, let us consider 
for a moment the circular section QltQ'. If at N, in the plane SRR', there be 
a plane TT', tangent to the surface of elasticity, and if, in this plane, the tangent 
lines til and t'l'i be drawn — the first tangent to the elliptic section SNR, and the 
second tangent to circular section QNQ' — then the angles made by the radius 
CN, of the surface of elasticity, with the latter, will be right angles; but the 
angle CxsV wiM be greater than a right angle, and the angle CN^j will be less 
than a right angle. If the plane QNQ' turn about CN — say to the position 
t"t"i — the angle CN^;" will be greater than a right angle, and the angle CN^", 
will be less than a right angle. The minor axis of the elliptic section 
made by the plane m this position will therefore fall toward <''i, from N. So, 
if the plane turn toward the position t'"t"'i, the minor axis of the section it 
makes will fall toward t'", from N ; that is, beloAV the circular section in each 
case. 

Now, LL' being supposed parallel to P'P', and KK' normal to it, let CII CI 
be the intersections of the planes SLL' and SKK' with the circular section. If 
the plane QNQ' turn about CII, so that Q' approaches L, the minor axis of the 
elliptic section it makes will faH to the right of 11. But if another line, to the 
left of CH, as CO, be made the turnhig line, a position may be found for it in 
which, ior a given amount of turning, the minor axis of the section, which will 
be to the right of CO, may fall in the plane SHL. The nearer is to H, the 
kss the plane will be required to turn to produce this effect. Accordingly there 



224 UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 

•will be a series of sections, more and more inclined to QNQ', and also to QRQ', 
and whose intersections with QNQ' will differ in azimuth along the arc HON, 
which will have their axes parallel to LL' or P'P'. 

By considering the effect of turning the plane about CI, we should arrive at 
a similar conclusion in regard to a series of sections cutting the circular section 
near the point I, one axis of each of which would be parallel to CK, or normal 
to P'P'. The normals to the planes of all these sections are the directions of 
Avave progress, or nearly the directions of ray progress ; and if, from a point 
above AA, the analyzer, lines should be drawn parallel to all those normals, 
they would indicate the directions in which (no double refraction of the inci- 
dent polarized ray occurring in them) the several points of the axis of the dark 
bands or brushes ought to appear. These directions being all more inclined to 
SC than is the normal to the circular section, it is evident that the pole in this 
case will be the point of nearest approach of the dark band to the centre of 
the field of view. It is furthermore evident that the bands are curved. For if 
they are not so, the normals must all lie in one plane. But they cannot lie in 
one plane unless the sections to which they are normals have a common inter- 
section — a condition which, from the law of their construction, cannot exist. The 
plane QNQ' turns about an axis movable in azimuth, and the surface Avhich is the 
locus of all the normals is necessarily curved. 

The foregoing illustration accounts for only one of the dark bands. The other 
is produced in the same way, and depends on the other circular section which is 
not drawn. The analytic investigation of these changes would be extremely 
complicated. 

It will be seen that this mode of explanation applies itself to the case of one- 
axed crystals with great facility. The surface of elasticity for such crystals 
being" an ellipsoid of revolution, every section has one of its axes in the plane 
which contains its normal, and also the axis of the ellipsoid. The loci of the 
dark bands will, therefore, always i:iecessarily be planes normal to each other, 
intersecting in the optic axis of the crystal. 

The direction of ray-propagation is that of the radius of the wave. When 
the theoretic wave is spherical, the ray is normal to the surface, but not other- 
wise. The velocity of wave progress is measured by the normal let fall from 
the centre of the wave upon the v/ave front; and this in spherical waves is the 
same as the velocity of ray progress ; but in waves not spherical, ray progress 
may exceed wave progress. 



§ XII. WAVE SURFACE. 

In order to determine, a priori, the direction which a ray will take on enter- 
ing a doubly refracting medium it is necessary to know what is the figure of the 
wave surface. For crystals of one axis we have seen that this problem was 
solv(.'d by Iluyghens; but the complete generalization of the theory was reserved 
for Frcsnel. 

Covdd a molecular movement be produced, starting from a single point and pro- 
pagated in all directions in a medium of variable elasticity of three axes, the 
surface defining the limits of the tremor at any moment would be the wave 
surface. The same form of surface (sensibly) would be defined by an infinite 
number of planes tangent to a luminous sphere like the sun, moving outwardly 
from the body in all directions with velocities such as the law of variable 
elasticity requires, when their distance from the body becomes very great 
compared with the diameter of the sphere itself. Proceeding upon this 



FORM OF THE WAVE SURFACE. 



225 



pupposition, Mr. Fresnel obtained an equation for the wave surface, wlilcli is the 
followinc; : 






2_.(«2 + ,2)] + 

\a^+h^)\^d'h\^=^. [50. 



Or, (^ 



„2. 






This is an equation of 

the fourth degree, and 

^^ represents a surface of 

■^ ' .iMIIiir'l^s. ^ two nappes, or sheets, 

inosculating at four 
points. Figure 64 is a 
representation of this 
surface copied from a 
drawing made by Mr. 
Ferdinand Engel, of 
Washington city. In 
order to exhibit the in- 
terior nappe, two ungu- 
l.ie are represented as 
cut away; one of the 
section planes passing 
through the two points 
of inosculation in the 
visible surface, and an- 
other through one of 
them. 

The form of the wave 
being known, we may 
apply, for the detenni- 
nation of the direction 
^^' * of a ray, the principle 

on which Huyghens founded his construction for spherical and spheroidal waves. 
Resuming once more the figure employed in illustrating that construction, we 
may say let CD be the direction of the semi-axis of 
elasticity a — the semi-axes h and c being at right 
angles to this, and to each othei*. Upon these axes 
let the wave surface be constructed in space, with C, 
the point of incidence, as the centre; the values of a, 
h, and c being the velocities of rays moving at 
righr angles to them (and whose molecular movements 
Yi-y. 34. are therefore parallel to them) when the velocity in 

vacuo is made unity. If MN be the surface of re- 
fraction, RC incident ray, and CP the normal to the surface, then RCF is the 
plane of incidence. In this plane draw CG perpendicular to RC. CG will be in 
the incident wave front. ]\Iakc RC=cl, draw RG parallel to the refracting sur- 
face, and cutting CG in G. Draw also GQ parallel to RC. Then when the 
Avav(! front has advanced to Q it will intersect MN in a line drawn through Q 
perpendicular to the plane of incidence. If the plane of the diagram be sup- 
posed to be the plane of incidence, tlats perpendicular will be projected mto the 
point Q. Both the refracted waves will intersect MN in the same line; and their 
planes will be also tangent to the two sheets of the surface. If ADB represent 
one of these sheets, and HFK the other, then tangent planes passing through 
the perpendicular projected in Q and meeting these sheets, as at E and F, will 
determine the directions, CE, CF, of the refracted rays. It is to be observed, 
however, that the points E and F, and therefore the refracted rays CE, CF, 
15 s 




226 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 



will generally not be in the plane of incidence ; nor will the ray or radius of the 
wave surface be normal to the tangent plane. 

The three principal sections of the wave surface present each two curves 
returning into themselves, as shown in these figures : — 

c 




Fig. 66. 

The equation of the section through a b, Fig. 66, is deduced from the general 
equation of the wave surface, by putting z=z{), when it becomes — 
(a V + hhf) {x^ +if-{a?+lr) + a'a? + bhf + a^b\^=Q, 
which may be resolved into the two foctors — 

{a^x^ + bhf-a?b''){^+y'-c'')=Q, "[51.] 

being the equation of an ellipse and a circle combined. In like manner, making 
X nothing, we obtain the equation of the section through b c, Fig. 65 — 

(j2^2_^^2;j2_S2c2)(2/2 + ;22-a2)=0 J [52.] 

and making y nothing, that of the section through a c, Fig. 67 — 

{a^3?+c^z^-a\^){x^-{-z^-b'')=0. [53.] 

This last section is remarkable, as showing an intersection of the circle and 
ellipse. The intersection is necessary, because the diameter of the circle is the 
mean axis of elasticity =:J, while the major and minor axes of the eclipse are the 
extreme axes of elasticity, a and c. The points of intersection, shown at N, W, 
&CC., are the inosculating points of the two nappes of the wave surface. 

Since the velocity of ray propagation is measured by the radius of the wave 
surface, it is evident that, along the radii drawn to N, N', &c., there may be two 
refracted rays having the same velocity. These lines have a peculiar optical 
interest. Their inclination to x, or a, the axis of greatest elasticity, (or the 
angle MCN) may be found from the equation (putting i3z=MCN,) 

^ MN MN 

MN and NO are obtained by making both fjictors of the equation of the 
section, just given, simultaneously=0. The values of x and z which render 
this possible are the values of NO and NM. We have then, 

x'+z''—b"=0, and a'x'^+c'^z^—a'c'^O. 
from which we obtain, by elimination. 



aP-- 






Whence, 



MN z , aV b- — c2 

^c77^=-^==c — 7 ^r=tana, 

NO X cVa'—b' 



[54.] 



which differs a little from the value found for the tangent of inclination of the 
normals to the circular sections. But these normals are the directions of equal 
wave velocity; and CN is the direction of equal ray velocity. These two direc- 
tions are therefore not coincident, though nearly so. 



PRINCIPAL SECTIONS OF THE WAVE SURFACE. 227 

The lines drawn tlirough the centre. and the points N and N' are however 
the optic axes ; for it is equality of ray velocity which makes an optic axis. 
But it is not true that the two rays whose velocities in ON are equal, can spring 
from the same incident ray. Herein there is an important difference between 
crystals of one axis, and those of two. In crystals of one axis, when it is pos- 
sible for two rays Avhose planes of polarization are transverse to each other, to 
have a common path and common velocity, they both proceed, or may proceed, 
from the same original ray. 

This is not so in crystals of two axes ; and what is more, no single incident ray 
of common light, in this class of crystals, can give a single refracted one ; for 
there are no common points of tangency, in which both nappes may be met by 
the same plane. 

If a tangent plane be drawn to the wave surface parallel to one of the circular 
sections of the surface of elasticity, it will take the position of AD, DB, &c., in 
the figure ; and will be tangent at once to the ellipse and the circle in the principal 
section through the axes.* If, then, (in the same figure,) AB represent a refracting 
surface, and N'C a ray of common light incident at 0, in such a manner as to 
take the direction CQ'" within the crystal, for the nappe whose section is cir- 
cular, it will yield another ray, OP'" for the nappe whose section is elliptical. 
These two rays will be polarized in planes transverse to each other. The 
directions of their respective molecular movements, and therefore the positions 
of their planes of polarization, may be inferred from the following considerations. 

The circular form of the section QQ'Q"Q'", shows that the velocity of the 
rays belonging to that section is equal in all directions. The molecular move- 
ments must therefore be affected by a constant elasticity. Their directions must 
accordingly be invariable. In order that these directions may remain invariable, 
while a ray moves as a radius vector in the plane QQ', &c., they must be 
perpendicular to this plane, or parallel to h. Accordingly the ray CQ'" is 
polarized in the plane of the section. The other ray, OP"', is polarized at right 
angles to the plane of the section. 

The radius, OQ'", of the circular section is normal to the tangent plane AD. 
For the angle CQ"'A. is a right angle, by the property of the circle. And the 
wave surface on opposite sides of the plane of the section is symmetrical. The 
molecular movements of' the ray OP'" are, therefore, in the plane, which, 
passing through the ray, is normal to the tangent plane. Or, if we draw a line 
joining the point of contact with the foot of the normal from the centre, this 
line will be the direction of molecular movement in the ray. 

The proposition just stated may be generalized, and extended to all rays. In 
the case of OQ'", the point of contact and the foot of the normal coincide; and 
any line drawn through Q'" fulfils the required condition, leaving the direction 

*■ The truth of this statement may easily be shown thus : Suppose ordinates to XX', ZZ', 
to be drawn Irom P' and Q'. Let x and 2 represent the ordinates from P', and x' and z' 
those from Q'. It is evident that the angle at C, where the tangent BC intersects the axis 

J>Q 2 z' 

of X, which we will put =a, will have for tanwnt ;:— 7. Also, that the same tanirent =— . 

' ^ '^ CC x' — X 

Put CC:=/i, BC=/c'. Then, by the property of the ellipse, we have — 
kx=^c-, kx'=^b-, k'z'^^h", Ii'z=^a'. 
Hence, k{x'—x)=b''—c''; and k'(z—z')=a^—b-^. 
Dividing the second of these equations by the first, member for member, we obtain — 



k'(z—z') a"—b'^ „ a-—b" 

— ^ =- ; or tau-a=:: , ; and tana 

k{x' — x) b- — c^ b- — C" 






But this (equation [48]) is the tangent of the inclination of the circular section of the surface 
of elasticity to a, the axis of greatest elasticity, which is the axis of x. It follows that a 
plane which, being normal to the section through the inosculating points of the wave surface, 
is tangent at once to the ellipse and the circle in that section, is parallel to one of the circular 
sections of the sm'face of elasticity. 



228 UNDULATOEY THEOEY OF LIGHT. 

indeterminate. "We have seen, however, that the direction is, in this case, fixed 
by other considerations ; and it is furthermore demonstrable, that, as the point 
of tangency approaches Q'", the line joining it with the foot of its correspond- 
ing normal approaches perpendicularity to the principal section ; and that, in 
'die limit, when the two points unite, the perpendicularity becomes absolute. 

In the discussion of the tangent plane AD, or DB, drawn parallel to one of 
the circular sections of the surface of elasticity. Sir William Hamilton made 
the remarkable discovery that the tangency is not confined to the points P and 
Q in the principal section ; but that it extends throughout the circumference of 
a minute closed curve, sensibly circular, of Avhich P and Q are only two points 
of the circumference. The point W is, therefore, the vertex of a conoklal or 

umbilical depression ; and all the points of 
the circumference of the circle of contact are 
equally points in the wave front to which CQ"' 
is normal, and which is parallel to the same 
circular section of the surface of elasticity to 
which the tangent plane is parallel. The 
annexed figure represents this little circle, 
p.^ g;; As, in this, CQ is the normal to the circular 

°' '^' section of the surface of elasticity, and CN* 

is the optic axis, we have — 

tanO CX=tana'= j- , / — ^,, and tanN0X=tan;3= ± - a / -^^>- 




c 



"Whence tana'=: -|- — tan^^*, [^^-^ 

In anhydrous sulphate of lime (anhydrite) in which the doubly refracting 
power is uncommonly great, the ratio of c to a is .9725 to 1. The value of /3 
is 14° 3.y, from which we deduce «'=13° 41' 11". And /?— a'=0° 22' 19". 

A general expression for the value of /? — a' may be found thus : 

tan/5— tana'=( 1 | tana'= tana' 

\c ; c . 

sin/j sina' a — c siua' 



Or 



cos/9 cosa' 



• n , r. • , <^ — c sma' , ^ a — c . , - 

smpcosa' — cos/Jsma'= ^,cosa'cos/3= — — sma'cosp 

c cosct' c 

(t — c 
And sin (/?—«')= sina'cos/3, [^^-j 

In so far as the variation dependent on the trigonometrical function sina'cos/? 
is concerned, we may easily determine the outside limit. For, since a' is less 
than /?, sina'<sin/5'; and sina'cos/3<sin/5cos/3. But when s'mficosjS is at its 
maximum, cos^;5;=sin^;9=sin^45^ = ^. Therefore, siuy'Jcos/^ = ^ also. And 
sina'cos/5 is always less than ^. Hence, the sine of the angle between the 
optic axes and the normals to the corresponding cu'cular sections is always less 
than half the difference between the greatest and least axes of elasticity, divided 
by the least axis. 

Inasmuch as all the points of the little circle QyP/^ are in the tangent 
plane, it follows thatj if a ray should be incident upon a crystal in such a 
manner as that CQ should be its direction for one nappe and CP for the other, 
neither the ray CQ nor the ray CP would be confined to the point Q or P, but 
both would spread themselves along the circumference Q^P/^. until, by blending 
together, they should form a hollow cone. And as, at the umbilical point, the 

* The letter N should stand at the centre of the conoidal depression in the figui'e. 




CONICAL AND CYLINDRIC REFRACTION. 229 

tangents to the two nappes intersect each otlier, the direction CN will be the direc- 
tion of a refracted ray, which will correspond 
to different incident, rays for the two nappes. 
The annexed figure illustrates ^these proposi- 
tions. Let ZZ'XX' be the section of the wave 
surface through x, z, or a, c. Let APQ be the 
linear projection of the common tangent plane 
of both nappes, and N the umbilical point. 
Draw NA', tangent at N, to the circular sec- 
tion, and NA", tangent also at N, to the ellip- 
tical section. The radii of the wave surface 
being the measures of ray velocity in their 
several directions, as related to an assumed 
unit, which is the uniform velocity of light in vacuo, take AD, equal to that 
assumed unit, and from A, A', and A", where the several tangents cut the 
axis ZZ' produced, describe the arcs aa, a'a', a" a". From draw tangents to 
these arcs, CD, CD', CD". And from C again draw the perpendiculars, CR, 
CR', CR", to these tangents. 

RC is the direction which an incident ray must have upon the surface ZZ' 
of a crystal cut perpendicularly across the line intermediate between its optic 
axes, (which is the axis of its greatest elasticity,) in order that it may be re- 
fracted to P and Q ; — a case in which, as we have seen, it will be refracted 
within the crystal in a hollow cone. At emergence (if the second surface is 
parallel to ZZ') the emergent light will resume its original direction; and, as 
this will happen for every point of the circular base of the cone, the emergent 
beam will be a hollow cylinder. 

The lines R'C, R"C are the directions of incidence of two rays, of which the 
first will send a refracted ray to N, belonging to the nappe whose section is 
circular ; and the second will send another refracted ray to the same point, be- 
longing to the nappe whose section is elliptical. Each of these will have a com- 
panion refracted ray which will not go to N. The companion of the first will take 
the direction Cn, found by drawing the tangent K'n to the ellipse ; and that of the 
second will take the direction Cn', found by drawing the tangent A"w' to the circle. 
The rays refracted to N will, on emergence, resume their parallelism to the 
incident rays R'C, R"C, and will therefore be divergent. Now, if it be con- 
sidered that the umbilical points, N, are conoidal, it will be perceived that any 
plane passing through CN, will furnish two tangents like A'N, A"N, and there- 
fore two incident rays, which will send corresponding refracted rays to N. It 
will accordingly be understood that a conical pencil of convergent rays, incident 
at C. will produce a conical pencil of divergent rays at its emergence from the 
opposite and parallel face of the crystalline plate. Also, though the incident 
cone of light be a solid cone, the emergent cone will be hollow. For, from the 
graphic construction by which the direction of refracted rays is determined, it 
is evident that none of the rays of the solid incident cone are refracted to N, 
except only those whose incident direction is R'C, R"C, &c., in the several 
azimuths around CN. 

These propositions were deduced by Sir William Hamilton from the equation 
of the wave surface, before any phenomena of the kind had been observed or 
even suspected. At his request Dr. Lloyd made a carei'ul stiidy of a crystal of 
arragonite cut in the manner just supposed ; and the restilt of his examination 
confirmed the theory in every particular. The success of the observation requires 
very delicate adjustments. Mr. Soleil, of Paris, has since constructed a small 
apparatus to facilitate the observation. 

When the emergent cylinder or cone of rays is observed with an analyzer 
like Nicol's prism, one radius of the circle disappears. As the analyzer is turned 
in azimuth, this dark radius changes position, advancing in azimuth twice as 



230 



UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT. 




fast as tho analyzer. Wlien the analyzer is in azimuth 90° from its original 
position, the dark radius is in azimuth 180° from its original position; when 
the analyzer has completed half a revolution, the dark radius has made a whole 
one. This singular fact is, however, easily explained. The analyzer suppresses 
that ray on whose plane of polarization it is crossed; and the planes of polariza- 
tion of the rays in this small circle are, at opposite ends of every diameter, at 
right angles to each other. If QAPA' he the small 
circle of tangency, Q heing the point of contact with 
the circular section, or the foot of the normal, we have 
seen that the molecular movement from any other 
point of contact in this plane must be toward Q ; that 
is, the movement at q must be in the direction ^Q, 
]. that at r in the direction ?Q, that at^ in the direction 
,pQ, &c. Suppose the direction of molecular move- 
ment in the analyzer to be AA, parallel to cQa. 
The vibrations in the ray at Q have the same 
direction. The analyzer allows that ray therefore 
freely to pass ; but it is crossed on the ray at P 
F'S- 70 whose direction of vibration is PQ. The radius, CP, 

will therefore be dark. Now let the analyzer take a position in azimuth A' A', 
parallel to a' a', tangent at r. Draw the diiimeter rCp. Draw (^sq perpendic- 
ular to rG. It will be parallel to a'a' , and it will be the direction of vibration 
of a ray at q. The analyzer in the position A'A', is therefore in harmony 
with the ray q, and it is crossed on a ray whose molecular movements are 
in Qr, at right angles to Q^' Join Qr, Q/», rq. The angle (^pr is 
equal to the angle Q^r, since both stand on the same arc, rQ. And the 
triangle rqs is similar to the triangle Q^r, the one being right angled by 
construction, and the other because it is inscribed in a semicircle. The triangle 
rqs is therefore similar and also equal to rQ.s% or the arc Q^ is twice the arc Qr. 
Draw the diameter qp', and join Q/;-'. The angle q^j)' is a right angle ; conse- 
quently the molecular movements at p', being in the direction ^Q, parallel to 
Cr, and at right angles to ^-Q, or to a'a' or A'A', will be suppressed. In turning 
the analyzer in azimuth, therefore, from AA to A' A', or through an azimuth, 
measured by AA' = Qr, the dark ray has advanced through an azimuth 
P^'— Q2'=2Q/-, which was the point to be proved. 

In the equation of the wave surface, if b be the mean axis, and we make 
,-;=i, we shall have, after reduction — 

{a^x'+hhfJr^rz'—a''h'){x^+if+z''— !/)=(). [57.] 

If b and c remain unequal, and we put b=^a, the equation is — 

(a^jj + aV+r^c^— aV)(x2 + 7/2 + ;~2_^2)^0. [58.] 

These are both equations of a spheroid and a sphere, touching each other at 
the poles. The first is that of an oblate spheroid circumscribing the sphere, 
and answers to the case of a negative crystal of one axis. The second is that 
of a prolate spheroid circumscribed by the sphere, and answers to the case of a 
positive crystal. The case of quartz, so remarkable on other accounts, is pe- 
culiar also in the fact that the two nappes of its wave surface are not in contact 
anywhere. The ellipsoid is entirely within the sphere, and there is no direction 
either of equal wave or of equal ray velocity. 

These equations suggest the geometrical relations between the surflxce of 
elasticity and the wave surface. The larger diameters of the one are at right 
angles to the larger diameters of the other, and the smaller have the same rela- 
tion. For crystals of one axis, the surface of elasticity is an ellipsoid of revo- 
lution. If its form is prolate, it generates an oblate wave ; if it is oblate itself, 
th'-' wave is prolate. 

The causes of varying elasticity of the luminiferous ether within crystals are 



CONCLUSION. 231 

not well understood. They are dependent, in some manner, upon molecular 
arrangement. This is evident from the fact tliat variations rescmblin<>; those 
which naturally exist in crystals may be produced, as we have seen, in homo- 
genous bodies, by heat or by the force of pressure, flexure, or torsion. So deli- 
cate a test does the polariscope furnish of any inequality of temperature, stress, 
or mechanical force of any kind, that Dr. Brewster has suggested the construc- 
tion of chromatic thermometers and dynamometers, founded on the principles 
we have endeavored to unfold, for determining differences of temperature, stress, 
or pressure too slight to be easily measured by ordinary instruments. 

COi\CLUSION. 

In the review which we have uoav taken of the applications of the doctrine 
of undulation, we have encountered no optical phenomenon of which this doc- 
trine does not furnish an explanation ; we have discovered no legitimate deduc- 
tion from it which has not found its verification in nature. We have seen, on 
the other hand, that it has served occasionally to point to facts of curious 
interest previously unknown, which have been subsequently confirmed by the 
experiments Avhich it has suggested and directed ; experiments which require 
for their exhibition adjustments so delicate and conditions so difficult to secure, 
that, but for the clew it has furnished, they would probably have remained forever 
unknown. This doctrine rises, therefore, above the level of a mer*; hypothesis ; it 
fulfils every essential condition of a true theory ; it explains all known phenomena; 
it anticipates the unknown, and its predictions are corroborated by experiment. 

Moreover, the simplicity of the connecting link by which it binds together 
phenomena the most diverse in their nature, is almost without an example in 
the history of physical theories. In the words of Fresnel, "in order to calcu- 
late the so various phenomena of diffraction, those also of the rings produced 
by thui plates of air or water, or any other refracting medium, refraction itself, 
in which the ratio of the sine of the incident to the sine of the refracted rays is 
that of the lengths of the waves in the two media, the colors and the singular 
modes of polarization presented by crystalline laminre, it is sufficient to know 
the lengths of undulation of light in the media which it traverses ; this is the 
sole quantity which it is necessary to borrow from experiment, and it is the 
basis of all the formula). If we attend to those intimate and multiplied rela- 
tions which the theory of undulations estabHshes between phenomena the most 
different, we cannot but be struck at once by its simplicity and its fecundity ; 
and we are compelled to admit that, even though it had not the advantage over 
the system of emission of explaining numerous facts absolutely inconceivable in 
the latter, it would still merit the preference because of the means which it fur- 
nishes of connecting together all the phenomena of optics and embracing them 
in general formula?." 

It is not, indeed, to be denied that some embarrassments still attend this theory. 
There are physicists to whom the phenomena of dispersion still continue to be 
a stumbling-block, and the differences of opinion which exist in regard to the 
true relation between the direction of molecular movement in undulation and 
the plane of polarization of a polarized ray have been pointed out in their 
proper place; but these difficulties are such as, it is fairly presumable, the 
further progress of investigation will ultimately clear away, and arc not suffi- 
ciently serious to impair confidence in the substantial truth of the theory as a 
whole. At any rate, whether this theory be received or not as a true represen- 
Uition of the operations of nature in optical phenomena, we are compelled to 
accept it at present as an instrument for combining and systematizing our knowl- 
edge of these facts and moulding it into a shape Avorthy of the name of science; 
since, if we reject this, there is nothing left us on which to fall back which is 
capable of rendering us the same service. 



INDEX TO LECTURES ON THE UNDULATORY THEORY. 



Page. 

Aberration, stfllar, velocity of light ascertained by means of 122 

Absolute lougths of umlulatious, bow measured ; table of 170, 171 

Agate, p(.-culiar property of 132 

Airys spirals 136 

his ■ 'quarter-wave lamina" 139, 206 

Amount of light reflected at any iucideuce 194 

polarized at do. 195 

Analyzer defined 133 

Angle of incidence 108 

of refraction 108 

of reflection 108 

limiting, in total reflection 138 

polarizing. Brewster's law of 128 

between (ijitie axes and normals to cu-cular sections of Burfaco of elasticity 228 

Apertures, minute, iirdduce difl'raction 114 

annular, experiments with, inilitto 179 

Apparatus, polarizing 130-32 

Arago, his discovery of colors in.polarized ligh^ 132 

of atmospheric polarization 143 

his experimental comparison of the velocities of light in air and water 124 

interesting experiment by, in interference 171 

his interference prism 170 

Atmospheric polarization 143 

neutral points of 143 

Axes, optic, of crystals 1 15, 139, 216, 227 

Azimuth 117 

indeterminate in vibrations of common light 1(J5 

of plane of polarization changed by reflection 195 

Azimuths, relative, of vibrations in double refraction 162, 220 

Bartholinus, Erasmus, treatise by, on double refraction 114 

Biot. his discovery of rotatory polarization in liquids 141 

Bodies, opaque, produce diti'ractiou fringes in divergent pencils 114, 175, 179 

minute, bright fringes in the shadows of 175 

elastic, impact of 158 

Body vibrating, undulations produced by, in elastic fluid 151 

laws of its movements 146-51 

Boundaries of shadows, why sharp 180 

of reflected and refracted beams 180 

Bradley, aberration of the stars discovered by 122 

Breadth of diffraction fringes, measurements of 170, 174 

Brewster, his law for polarizing angle 128 

discovery of two axes in crystals 139 

of tixed linei^ in the spectrum^. 126 

of rings in quartz 135 

of polarization by heat, pressui'e, torsion, &c 140 

investigations of elliptic polarization 138 

experiment on colors of thick plates 120 

interesting experiment on reflection of polarized light 128 

Brushes, dark, seen in the rings of crystals 135-40, 214-15, 222-24 

Bmidles of glass plates used as polarizers 1.30 

their transparency 131 

Case of failure of Fresnel's formulae for reflection 138. 196 

Cauchy, his investigations of dispersion 155-6 

Causes of varying elasticity of the ether in crystals 230 

Change of phase of undulation produced by reflection 196, 199 

of plane of polarization by do 195 

of azimuth in vibrations of common light 165 

Chromatic exiierinients, movements of the planes of polarization in 206 

Chromaiics of jiolarized light 204-15 

Circular aperture, diffraction by 178-80 

sections of surface of elasticity 221 

normals to ditto 222 

polarization produced by Fresnel's rhomb 1 37 

by Airy 's ' 'quarter-wave lamina" 139, 206 

Circularly polarized light, rings seen in, distorted 139, 211 

Clock, polar, of Wheatstone 143 

Cold and heat, polarization produced by 140 

Color aud rcfraugibility, mutual relation between Ill 

Colors of thin plates 118-20,183-87 

of thick do 120,167 

of crystalline laraime in polarized light 132-34, '20.5-10 

of crystals cut across the axis 134-37, 210-15, 222-24 

of quartz do. 135, 211-1'J 

of the spectrum IH 

of ruled surfaces 183 

thicknesses which produce, in crystalline plates 133 

in liewion's rings US) 



INDEX. 233 



Page. 

Common light, azimuths of vibration in 165 

interferences iu 109 

not polarized by total reflection lo8 

Compensator of Mr. Jamin 199 

Compoimd nature of light announced by Newton 11 1 

Conchisions of Mr. Jainhi on changes of phase by reflection Ul9 

Condensation and rarefaction, waves by 15'-i 

Conditions necessary to produce color in crystalline laminae 204-5 

Conical and cylindrical refraction 228-:-!0 

Crystalline form, modifications of, how related to rotatory power 1^5 

plates in polarized light 132-34, 204-1 5 

at oblique incidences Ili3 

eft'.cts of crossing 134, 212-13 

Ci'ystals, primitive formH 141 

principal sections 116 

of one axis 11"), 210-12 

of two axes 130, 21 3-15, 222-24 

positive and negative 116 

crosses and rings seen in 134-36, 214-15, 222-24 

eflfectii of heat upon 141 

elasticity of ether in 162, 215-17 

indexes of refraction in - 116 

homihedral 142 

plagihedral 135 

Cnr^-ea, lemniscate ] 39, 214 

illustrative of undulation 153, 166 

nodal points of 198 

Cycloid, vibrations in 148 

Cylindric and conical refraction 228-.30 

Dark crosses and brushes seen in crystals cut across the axes 134-40, 214-15, 222-24 

Darkness produced by union of two rays of light 114 

De Dominis, cause of rainbow detected by him Ill 

Delezenne's eye-piece l.'U 

Density of ether in different media 158 

Depolarization of light 206 

experiment on by Dovc' 165 

Designs in selenite, colored in polarized light 133 

Dextrogyration and lijevogyratiou, terms defined 135 

Dimensions of rainbow 1 113-14 

Diffraction, CJrimaldi's original observations 114, 172 

measurement of fringes 174 

Diffraction fringes, produced by opaque bodiea gi^erally 172 

by narrow opaque bodies 175 

by opaque disk 179 

by narrow apertures 177 

b}' minute circular ditto 178-80 

by annular ditto 179 

by gratings 181-83 

measurements of 176 

Diffraction interferences, form of trajectories 174, 176 

Diffraction spectra 182 

Direction of refracted rays in double refraction lCO-1, 225 

Discovery of aberration, stellar 1 23 

of circular polarization 137 

of elliptic do ; 133 

of rotatory do. 135, 141 

of colors in crystalline plates 132 

of conical and cylindric refraction 229 

of polarization by reflection 127 

of law of refraction 109 

of law of polarizing angle 128 

Dislocation of nodes of component undulations 198-99 

of rings of crystals in circularly polarized light 139, 211 

Dispersion, Newton's discovery of Ill 

Cauchy's theory of 155 

Double I'efraction 215 

first mention of 114 

phenomena of 115-17 

light polarized by 118, 215 

direction of refracted rays in 160-61, 225 

resultant of elastic resistance in 218-20 

theory of, by Iluyghens 160-61 

by Fresnil 162, 215 

Dove's experiment on depolarization of light 165 

Early notions of light 108 

Eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, velocity of light ascertained by 121 

Elastic bodies, impact of 158 

Elastic fluid, body vibrating in J 151 

tremors produced in 152 

undulations generated in 151-.53 

molecular movements in 157 

Elasticity, surface of 217-18 

equation f!13 

circular sections in 5?21 

viiriations of, in crystals 162, 215-20 

Elastic resistances, resultant of 218-20 

Elliptic polarization of light 138 



234 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Elliptic revolution of vibrating body 150 

rings seen in topaz 139 

in crystals of two axes generally 213 

Equal wave and ray vtloeity, lines of 2il(i 

Equation of surface of elasticity ' 217 

of wave surface 225 

of Interfering or superposed waves 1H6 

of waves normal to each other compounded ItiS 

of lemniscate curves 214 

Ether luminiferous 158 

incompressibility of KH 

density of, in different bodies 158 

elasticity of, in crystals 162, 215-20 

Euclid, his treatise on optics 1U8 

Extraordinary ray, definition 115 

Eye-piece, Delezenne's i:52 

Nicol's 132 

tourmaline 132 

Failure of Frcsuel's formute for reflection, case of 138, li'ti 

Figures in selenite, under polarized light 133 

Fixed lines in the spectnim 125-27 

Fizeau, his experiments on the velocity of light 122-23 

Fluid, elastic, body vibrating in 151 

tremors produced in 152 

undulations generated in 151-53 

molecular movements in 157 

Formula general, for resultant vibrations 150 

for dispersion 15(5 

for interference fnnges 170 

for diffraction do 176 

for reflection and refraction 18i)-95 

for chromatics of polarized light 207-08 

for lemniscates in two-axed crystals 214 

Forms, primitive, of crystals 141 

Foucault, his experiments on the velocity of light 124-25 

Fraunhofer, his discoveries in the spectrum 126 

his measures of undulations 171 

Fresnel, his analysis of light in the axis of quartz 1. 6 

his rhomb for circular polarization 137 

interference experiment with mirrors 168-69 

foi'mulffi for reflection, case of failure .<. 138, 1;'6 

equation of the wave surface j» 225 

of the surface of elasticity 217 

theory of undulation 162, 106 

of double refraction 162, 215-24 

Fringes of interference, measurement of 170 

displacement of 171 

Galen, principle of the stereoscope stated by 509 

Galileo, his experiments on the velocity of light 121 

Glass pUes used for polarization 130 

transparency of 131 

Gratings, diffraction produced by 181-83 

spectra do 182 

Grimaldi, first observer of diffraction 114 

Grimaldi's crests, diffraction fringes so-called 176 

Gyration of molecules in circular or elliptical polarization 197 

resultant of opposite 198, 203 

virtual in crystals having rotatory power 203 

Heat and cold, polarization produced by 1 40 

Heat, effects of, on crystals 141 

Iceland spar 141 

sulphate 01 lime 141 

glauberite 141 

Hemihedral crystals produce rotatory polarization 142 

Hemihedrism, relation to rotatory power 142 

Herapathite, used as a polariscope 1^*2 

Herschel, Sir John, his observations on plagihedral quartz . 135 

Huyghens, polarization obsei'ved by, in double refraction 116 

his theory of ethereal undulations 161 

of reflection and refraction IJiiJ 

of double refraction 160-61 

his principle of elementary wave-composition 1.57 

Iceland spar, form and characters of 115 

double refraction by 115-17 

Impact of elastic bodies ". 158 

Incidence, angle of 108 

limiting for total reflection 138 

Incompressibility of the ether •- IM 

Index of refraction 109 

in doubly refracting ci-ystals 116 

Inosculation, points of, in the wave surface 225-30 

Interference, cause of colors in Newton's 'rings 183-87 

in crystalline plates 204-15 

of fringes in diffraction 172-83 

does not occur in circularly polarized rays oppositely gyrating 203-4 

common origin of rays necessary to 168 

produced by two slightly inclined mirrors 168 



INDEX. 235 



Pago. 

Interference, by singlo mirror ITO 

by very obtuse angled prism 170 

Interferences iu liquid waves 162 

in waves of sound ,^^? 

in waves of light 163-64 

measurements of ditto ^Jp 

trajectories iu 1'''4, l^S 

of polarized Ught 1G5, 2U4-15 

Isochronism of vibrations 147 

Jamiu, his researches on change of phase in reflection 198 

his "compensator' 199 

liSevogyration and dextrogyration, terms defined 135 

Lamina, Airy's " quarter-wavo" 139, 206 

Lamina;, thin, colors in 118-20 

crystalline, colors in polarized light 132, 204-10 

Law of Brewster for polarizing angle 128 

of Mains for intensity of rays in double refraction 129 

of SneUius for ordinary refraction 109 

Laws of vibration 146-51 

governing direction of molecular movement.iu double refraction 218-20, 227 

Lemuiscate curves seen iu two-axed crystals 139 

equation of 214 

Lengths, absolute, of undulations 170 

table of 171 

relative, of undulations of different colors 171 

Light, early notions of 108 

theories of 143 

theory of emission of 143-46 

of undulation 143, 147 

compound nature of Ill 

dispersion of lUi 1^^ 

velocity of - 121, 125 

polarization of, by reflection 127 

by refraction 130 

by double refraction 118 

circular and elliptic of \^''^~''^^ 

rotatory of 135, 200 

atmospheric of 143 

depolarization of 165 

interferences of ^Ip5 

conical and cylindric refraction of 226-30 

of the sun and incandescent gases, not pola^-ized 131 

of incandescent liquids and solids partially polarized 131 

polarized, chromatics of 204 

Limits of thickness within which colors appear in crystalline plates 133 

Lines of equal ray velocity in two-axed crystals 226 

fixed, in the spectrum 125-27 

in the spectra of incandescent bodies 3 27 

Liquids, rotatory power observed iu 141 

Liquid waves, interferences in 162-63 

Loci of diffraction interferences 170, 174 

Magnetism rotates the plane of polarization 204 

Mains, polarization by reflection discovered by 127 

his law for intensities of rays in double refraction 129 

Material theory of light 143-46 

Measure of time, in vibration 149 

Measurements of the velocity of light 121-25 

of diffraction fringes 174 

of interference fringes 170 

of thicknesses of plates producing Newton's rings 119 

of undulation lengths -- 171 

' Metals, reflection from, produces clliijtic polarization -' 138 

Minute apertures produce diffraction 114, 177 

Minute opaque bodies prodvice diffraction 175 

Mirror experiment, Fresnel's, producing interference 168-69 

Mirror, experiment with single, producing interference 170 

Mirrors, polarizing 132 

Molecular movements, varieties of 157 

in sound 162 

in luminous waves 162 

in plane polarizatiou 215 

in cinnUarpolarization 197 

in ellijitic polarization 198 

in doubh.' refraction 162, 218-20 

relation of, to plane of polarization 216-17 

Monge, curious experiment by, iu double refraction 116 

Motion, progressive, of light • 121-23 

Movements, molecular, in undulation '. 151-53, 164 

of plane of polarizatiou in chromatic experiments 206 

relation of, to plane of polarizatiou ~^''~I^ 

Narrow apertures, diffraction prodiiced by 177 

opaque bodies, diffraction prfiduced bj' -^ ] 75 

Negative and positive crystals, in double refraction 116, 222, 230 

Neutral points in the atmosphere 143 

Newton, compound nature of light announced by m 

his researches on colors of thin plates 1 18-20 

of thick plates 120 



236 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Nicol's prisra 12I 

Nodal points in undulation curves j^gg 

Normals to circular sections of surface of elasticity ooo 

Notions, early, prevalent respecting light 108 

Numbers of undulations of light per second 171 

compared with those of sound I7I 

Oblique incidences of light.eflfects on Newton's rings 120 184 

on colors of crystaUine lamina; 1:j3 

Opaque bodies, narrow, in divergent light have fringed shadows I75 

Opposite molecular gyrations, resultant of 093 

produce no interference -jO;} 

Optic axes of crystal II5 13;) oig 007 

of two-axed crystals, how situated '....' 227 

Optical treatise of Euclid IQg 

of Ptolemy 1 og 

Ordinary and extraordinary rays, in double refraction 11 5 

terms not applicable in case of crystals of two axes 213 

Origin of interfering waves must be common 1C8 

Partial reflection of common light, elliptic polarization produced by 138 

Pasteur, his researches on rotatory polarization j 42 

Pendulum, vibrations of l.jg 

Phase of vibration or undulation deiined 150 

changed by reflection lyS 

Phenomena of ordinary refraction 110 

of double refraction 115-17 

Piles of glass plates used as polarizers 130 

transparency of i:!l 

Plane of incidence lOii 

of refraction lOg 

of polai'ization 12y 

of ditto for refracted raya in double refraction 218-20 

changed by reflection iy5 

rotated by magnetism 204 

as related to direction of molecular movement 216-17 

Plates, thin, colors produced by 118-20 

thick, colors produced by . 120 

crystalline, in polarized light 132-34, 204-15 

of glass, piles of used as polarizers 130 

Points of inosculation of wave surface 225-30 

neutral, iu atmosphere 143 

nodal, in undulation curves 1<I8 

Polar clock, Wheatstone's 143 

Polariscopes, Nicol s 131 

Delezcnne's 132 

tourmaline 132 

Polarization of light, discovery of 118, 127 

physical theory of 188-95 

chromatics of 204-15 

amount of, at any incidence 195 

plane of, defined 129 

atmospheric 14'{ 

plane 188-95 

circular 137, 192 

elliptic 138, 198 

rotatory, theory of 200 

of quartz 135 

of liquids 141 

of salts 142 

produced by heat, cold, torsion, tension, or pressure 140 

plane of, changed by reflection 195 

rotated by magnetism 204 

Polarized light, properties of 118-27 

colors of crystalline plates in 132-34, 204-13 

interferences of . 204-15 

general phenomena of 118-27 

Polarizing piles of glass 130 

eye-pieces 131-32 

mirrors 133 

angle 127-8 

Brewster's law of 128 

Positive and negative crystals in double refraction 116, 222, 2: iO 

Pressure imparts polarizing properties to solids 140 

Primitive forms of crystals possessing polarizing power 141 

Principle of Huyghens concerning elementary wave composition 157 

Principal sections of crystals 116 

of wave surface 226 

Prismatic spectrum Ill 

fixed lines in 125-27 

Prism, Arago's 170 

Presuel's 136 

Nicol's 131 

Progressive motion of light 121-25 

Progress of wave and ray in double refraction distinguished 224 

Ptolemy, his experiments on refraction 108 

"Quarter-wave lamina," Airj''s 139, 206 

Quartz, crystallogrnphic peculiarities of 1.35 

rings of, discovered by Brewster 135 



INDEX. 237 



Page. 

Quartz, Airy's spirals seen in i:36 

rotatory polarization in 1J5 

Kainbow, explanation of, by De Domiuis Ill 

cause of its tints 113 

dimensions of 113-14 

Karefaction and condeusfttion, waves by 153 

Ray progress and wave progress in double refraction 2ii 

lietlectiou, angle of 108 

pi aue of 108 

theory of ] 59 

polarization by 127 

partial, usually produces elliptic polarization 138 

froin metals 138 

total, dues not polarize common light 138' 

from ruled surfaces produce colors 183 

changes plane of polarization IH5 

changes phase of undulatioji 198 

restores plane polarization in circularly or elliptically polarized light 197 

Refraction, angle of 108 

plane of 108 

theory of 159 

I'tolemy's experiments on 108 

law of 109 

index of , 108, 116 

phenomena of 110 

light polarized by 130 

light circularly polarized by 139 206 

. double, first mention of 114 

theory of, by Huyghena 160 

theory of, by Tresnel 215 

phenomena of 115-17 

planes of polarization in 218-20 

dii-ection of refracted rays in 160-61, 225 

Refrangibility, unequal, of the ditierent colors ... - 'ill 

Relation of vibration to undulation ] 51-53 

of dii-ection of molecular movement to piano of polarization 216-17 

Resistances, elastic, resultant of 218-20 

Resultant of compounded impulses in vibration 150 

of superposed undulations 160 

of elastic resistances in double refraction 218-20 

of molecular movement in double refraction 218-00 

of opi)()>^ite gyratory forces 198, 203 

Revolution induced in vibrating bodies 1^8 

when circular and when elliptic 150 

Rings, colored, seen in thin plates 118-20 

in crystals in plane polarized light 134-40 204-15 

in crystals in circularly polarized light I39 -^11 

elliptic, in topaz i:;9 

in two-axed crystals generally 2i:! 

Roemer, his determination of the velocity of light 1-jl 

Rotation of plane of polai'ization produced by magnetism XU 1 

Rotatory polarization, discovered 135 j .; | 

described ' i;i5 

produced by quartz ] 35 

by liquids 141 

by salts I40 

Pasteur's researches in 140 

theory of OOO 

Rotatory power, how related to crystallograpliic modification I35 

Ruled surfaces, colors seen in reflection from 183 

Saccharimeter, Soleil's 141 

Mitscherlich's ] 40 

Salts, rotatory polarization produced by 142 

Sections, circular, of surface of elasticity 221 

principal, of crystals lj(5 

of wave surface 226 

Scebeck, rotatory power of liquids discovered by 14 1 

Selenite figures colored in polarized light ] 3:5 

Shadows, sharp b' jundaries of jyO 

of minute bodies show diffraction fringes I75 

Snellius, law of refraction discovered by 109 

Solar light unpolarized 131 

Soleil's saccharimeter HI 

Sonorous uadulutious, molecular movements in Kjo 

velocity of, uniform J55 

compai'cd with those of light 171 

Sound, velocity of 153-55 

interferences in 1(;3 

molecular movements in ] go 

Spar, Iceland, crystalUne form II5 

double refraction by 11.5-17 

Spectra, produced by diffraction 182 

Spectrum, solar, colors of HI 

fixed lines in 125-26 

Spirals, Airy's, seen in quartz 13(5 

Stars, aberration of, a means of ascertaining the velocity of light 122 

Stereoscope, principle of, found in Galen's worlds 109 



238 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Stokes, his discoveries in the spectnim 127 

Sulphate of lime, effect of heat upon 141 

Surface of elasticity 217-18 

equation of 217 

cii'cular sections in , 221 

for crystals of one axis ' 230 

Surface, wave, in double refraction, illustrated 225 

equation of 225 

principal sections of 226 

inosculating points of 225-30 

in crystals of one axis 230 

Surfaces, ruled, appear colored by reflectedlight 183 

Tartrates, rotatory power of 142 

Tension imparts polarizing power 140 

Theories of light 143 

Theory of emission 143 

of undulation 143, 146 

of dispersion, by Cauchy 155-56 

of reflection and refraction, by Huyghens 159 

of double refraction, by Huyghens 160-61 

of polarization in reflection and retraction 188 

Thick plates, colors produced by 120 

Thicknesses which produce color in crystalline plates under polarized light 133 

in Newton's rings 119 

Thin plates, colors produced by 118-20, 183-^7 

Time, measure of, in vibration 149 

Topa!5, elliptic rings seen in 139 

Torsion imparts polarizing power 140 

Total reflection, defined- 138 

limiting angle in 138 

does not polarize common light i;58 

Tourmaline, its peculiar properties 132 

Trajectories in diffraction interferences 174, 176 

Transparency of glass piles •. ni 

Transverse vibrations, basis of the theory of ijolarizatioa -163 

Tremor, definition of 152 

velocity of 152 

how related to undula'ion 152 

Two-axed crystals, optic axes of 139, 227 

Undulatory theory of light 143, 146 

Undulation - 147 

how related to vibration 151-53 

curves - 153, 166 

curves, tlioir nodal points 198 

Undulations unequal for different colors 171 

absolute lengths of 170 

table of 171 

numbers of, per second 171 

of light and sound compared 171 

interfering 162-64, 1G6 

direction of vibrations in 162, 215 

resultant of, in same plane 166 

resultant of, in normal planes 168 

liquid 162-63 

sonorous 15! 

in plane polarization 215 

in circular polarization 197 

in elliptic polarization 198 

Unequal velocities of rays of different colors. . ., 171 

of rays in double refraction 220 

Union of two rays producing darkness 114 

Varieties of molecular movements 157 

Varying elasticity of ether in double refracting crystals 162, 216 

causes of 230 

Velocity of light 121,125 

of sound 153-55 

of sonorous undulations, tmiform 155 

of rays of ditferent colors, unequal 1 55 

of rays in double refraction, unequal 220 

of tremors in elastic fluids 152 

of molecular movements in waves 157 

Vibration 147-51 

Vibration, how converted into revolution 148 

, how related to imdulation - 151-53 

measure of time in 149 

of velocity in 147 

Vibrations, how compounded 148-51 

transverse, tlie h;usis of Pi-esnel's theory 162, 215 

relative, of tlie rays produced by double refraction 162, 220 

of common liglit indeterminate in azimuth 165 

of the pendulum 148 

isochrouism of 147 

Wave surface, illustrated 225 

equation of 225 

■ principal sections of 226 

of crystals of one axis 230 

Wave-progress and ray-progress distinguished 224 



INDEX. 239 

Page. 

Wave velocities of light, unequal 155 

■\Vave velocities of sound, equal 15 j 

Waves, liquid lCn-6.3 

varieties of molecular movement in 157 

of condensation and rarefaction, defined 153 

unequal in length for different colors 171 

resultant of, in same plane 160 

resultant of, in normal planes 1C8 

interfering, must have common origin 168 

of I'ght and sound compared 171 

plane, considered as resultant of elementary spherical waves 15/ 

Wheatstone, his polar clock 143 

WoDastou, his discovery of flsed lines in the spectrum 125-2o 

Young, hypothesis of transverse vibrations suggested by 16:.i 



EREATA. 

q q 

Pat^e 110, line 5 from bottom, for — , „ . -r^ read / „ 77 i^> 

Page 112, line 16 from bottom, for mih read (m+l)st, in botli instances. 



LECTURES. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



By DANIEL WILSON, LL.D., 

PROFESSOR OF HISTORY AND ENGLISH LITERATURE IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, TORONTO, 

UPPER CANADA. 



PAKT I. 

THE AMERICAN CRANIAL TYPE. 

Among the novel questions to wliicli the progress of science has given promi- 
nence, nutler aspects undreamt of in very recent years, is that of the relation 
of man to the inferior orders of being, and his true place in nature as one of the 
animal creation. In this respect, the investigations of the craniologist, and tjie 
whole hearings of physical ethnology, are now acquiring an kiterest and import- 
ance very partially accorded to them before. The geologist, who long ignored 
all that related to man and his works, as recent, and therefore without the pale 
of his comprehensive researches, now recognizes both his remains and his works 
of art as pertaining to the department of palaeontology ; and disputes with the 
archreologist the appropriation of tlie primitive flint-implements of the drift, once 
claimed exclusively by l»:m for his Age of Stone. This has materially affected 
the aspects of the study of physical ethnology ; for until very recently the dif- 
ferences between man and all other animals have been assumed to be so clearly 
defined, that the naturalist was long induced to overlook those which distinguish 
different races of men, and to regard any diversities of structure or relative pro- 
portions in the human form as mere variations from one common or ideal type. 
Nevertlieless the craniologist, at the very commencement of his investigations, 
is led to recognize certain essential varieties of form; tliough still tempted, like 
Blumenbach, to refer all lliese to some " Caucasian" or other assumed highest 
type. Before, however, the ethnologist directed his attention to such researches, 
the artist had sought this type in the beautiful realizations of Greek sculpture ; 
and by such means he determined the long-accepted statuary scale of the human 
head and figure. Nor can the influence of this artistic ideal be overlooked iu 
the direction it gave to some of the speculations of the craniologist, and to the 
theoretical conception of the fully-developed man. It guided Camper in assign- 
in«- the laws of his facial angle ; controlled Blumenbach in his determination of 
the cranial peculiarities of leading races of men ; and even influenced Prichard 
in his definition of the symmetrical or oval form of skull which he ascribed to 
his first division. Against the ideal canons of an antique statuary scale, how- 
ever, some of the greatest modern masters protested ; foremost of whom was 
Leonardo da Yinci, of whom Bossi remarks, " He thought but little of any 
general measure of the species. The true proportion aclmitted by him, and 
acknowledged to be of difficult investigation, is solely the proportion of an indi- 
vidual in regard to himself, which, according to true imitation, should be difter- 
ent iu all the individuals of a species, as is the casein nature." In the features 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 241 

of the face there are the endless varieties of portraiture, controlled by family 
and national affinities, and so also in the varying proportions of the skull there 
appears to be an approximation in each race towards a special form. The cra- 
niologist accordingly finds in nature his brachycephalic or short skull ; his 
dolichoccphahc or long Skull ; his kumbecephalic or elongated (boat-shaped) 
gkuU ; his pyramidal or acroccphalic ; his platycephalic or ilattened ; his trun- 
cated, oval, and spherical skulls ; as well as many intermediate forms. An idea, 
however, has long prevailed with reference to the aborigines of the New World, the 
origin of which is traceable to this distinguished American craniologist, Dr. 
Morton, that throughout the vast continent, from tlu^ arctic circle to the icy 
shores of Terra del Fuego, the Esquimaux constitutes the one exception to a 
predominant uniform cranial type. 

The opinions advanced by one so distinguished and indefatigable in his study 
of the science as the author of the Crania Americana well merited the atten- 
tion they have received, and might even seem to justify the assumption of 
them as indisputable scientific canons. Only one other authority could have 
carried any corresponding weight, and that is produced to confirm the conclu- 
sion referred to. " The nations of America," says Humboldt, " except those 
which border on the polar circlt?, form a single race, characterized by the forma- 
tion of the skull, the color of the skin, the extreme thinness of the beard, and 
straight glossy hair." 

Very few and partial exceptions can be quoted to the general unanimity of 
American writers — some of them justly regarded as authorities in ethnology — 
in reference to this view of the nations of the whole American continent, north 
and south, as one nearly homogeneous race, varying within very narrow limit? 
from the prevailing type, and agreeing in so many essentially distinctive features. 
as to prove them a well-defined variety, if not a distinct species, of the genus 
Homo. Lawrence, Wiseman, Agassiz, Squier, Gliddon, Nott and Meigs, might 
each be referred to in confirmation of this opinion, and especially of the prevail- 
ing uniformity of certain strongly-marked cranial characteristics ; but in reality 
the most of them only echo the opinions of Dr. Morton, and reproduce conclusions 
which his laboriously-accumulated evidence was supposed to have established 
beyond dispute. His views underwent considerable modification on some points 
relating to the singular cranial conformation observable in certain skulls found 
in ancient American graves ; especially in reference to the influence of artificial 
means in perpetuating changes of form essentially different from the normal 
type ; but the tendencies of his matured opinions all Avcnt to confirm his original 
idea of universal approximation to one cranial type throughout the New World. 
In his final contribution to his fiivorite science, on " The Physical Type of the 
American Indians,"* his matured conclusions relative to the cranial type of the 
American continent are thus defined : " The Indian skull is of a decidedly 
rounded form. The occipital portion is flattened in the upward direction, and 
the transverse diameter, as measured between the parietal bones, is remarkably 
wide, and often exceeds the longitudinal line.t The forehead is low and reced- 
ing, and rarely arched, as in the other races ; a feature that is regarded by Hum- 
boldt, Lund, and other naturalists, as a characteristic of the American race, and 
serving to distinguish it from the Mongolian. The cheek-bones are high, but 
not much expanded ; the maxillary region is salient and ponderous, with teeth 
of a corresponding size, and singularly free from decay. The orbits are large 
and squared, the nasal orifice wide, and the bones that protect it arched and 
expanded. The lower jaw is massive and wide between the condyles ; but not- 

* Schoolcraft'.s Tlistoi-y of Indians, vol. II, p. 31(5. 

f No such exccs.s of the parietal over the longitudinal diameter is ever found except in a 
greatly distorted flathead or other artilicially deformed skull ; and of this only one example 
occm"s in the Crania Arncricana, 
16 S 



242 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

withstanding tlie prominent position of tlie face, the teeth are for the most part 
vertical." 

The views thus set forth, on such high authority, have exercised an important 
influence on all subsequent investigations ; of whicli, perhaps, no instance is 
more illustrative than that of Stephens, who submitted to Dr. Morton the broken 
fragments of a skull rescued by him from an ancient grave in the rums of Ticul; 
and though the observant traveller had already noted essential differences of 
ethnical characteristics between the physiognomies and head-forms sculptured 
on the ruins o£ Central America and those of the living race of Indians, he 
appears to have implicitly resigned his judgment to the homogeneous theory of 
Dr. Morton, and reproduces his opinion of the skull as that of a female, pre- 
senting "the same physical conformation which has been bestowed with amazing 
uniformity upon all the tribes on the continent, from Canada to Patagonia, and 
from the Atlantic to the Pacific ocean '* 

This supposed prevalence of a remarkable uniformity of cranial conformation 
throughout tribes occupying forest, prairie, mountain plateau, or oceanic archi- 
pelago, and ranging from the arctic circle through every degree of latitude 
almost to the antarctic circle, being assumed as an established truth, has furnished 
the basis for further deductions of an equally comprehensive kind. Professor 
Agassiz, in discussing the provinces of the animal world and their relation to 
the different types of man, points out certain physical features of the western 
hemisphere which tend to adapt it for a much more uniform distribution of 
fauna than the European, Asiatic, and African regions present in corresponding 
latitudes. " The range of mountains which extends in almost unbroken con- 
tinuity from the Arctic to Cape Horn, establishes a similarity between North 
and South America which may be traced also to a great degree in its plants and 
animals. Entire families which are peculiar to this continent have th(^ir repre- 
fientatives in North as well as South America — the cactus and didelphis, for 
instance ; some species, as the puma or American lion, may even be traced from 
Canada to Patagonia. Thus, with due qualification, it may be said that the 
whole continent of America, when compared with the corresponding twin conti- 
nents of Europe — Africa or Asia — Australia is characterized by a much greater 
uniformity of its natural productions, combined with a special localization of 
many of its subordinate types. With these facts before us, we may expect that 
there should be no great diversity among the tribes of man inhabiting this con- 
tinent ; and, indeed, the most extensive investigation of iheir peculiarities has 
led Dr. Morton to consider them as constituting but a single race, from the 
confines of the Esquimairx down to the southernmost extremity of the conti- 
aent."t That the elements of diversity dependent on physical geograiihy and 
the consequent influences of climate on food, temperature, &c., by which the 
distribution of the fauna of every region is controlled, are much less varied 
throughout the American continent than elsewhere is indisputable. But the 
effects of this comparative uniformity, or rather smaller range of diversity of 
climate and physical influences, in so far as they control the distribution of 
plants and animals, differ essentially from the operation of the same causes in 
producing an apparent uniformity among the tribes of men inhabiting the same 
continent. Fin, Celt, German, Sclave, Magyar, and Turk, all present as great 
a superficial resemblance as the diverse tribes and nations of the New World, 
where they have been long subjected to the same equalizing influences of climate, 
social intercourse, and intermingling of blood. But the ethnologist still finds 
the osteological indices of diversity of race unobllterated ; and the results of 
the investigations set forth here have sufficed to satisfy me that the same diversity 
iis still traceable among the ancient and living tribes and nations of this continent. 



"Siephens's Yucatan, vol. I., p. 284 

j Provinces of the Animal World, &c. Types of Mankind, p. Ixix. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 243 

Whilst, however, the supposed unity in physical foim asserted hy Dr. Morton, 
and accepted as an established scientific truth in relation to the races of man in 
the New World, has been reiterated on many occasions, its originator was not 
unaware that it was, at most, only an approximation to his assumed type, and 
was subject to variations of a very marked kind; although he did not allow their 
just weight to these when determining the conclusions which seemed legitimately 
to result from his carefully accumulated data. He thus remarks, in his Crania 
Americana, on certain inimistakable diversities of form into which the assumed 
American cranial type may be subdivided, when classing the so-called barbarous 
nations: " After examining a great mimber of skulls, I find that the nations 
east of the Alleghany mountains, together with the cognate tribes, have the 
head more elongated than any other Americans. This remark applies especially 
to the great Lenape stock, the Iroquois, and the Cherokees. To the west of the 
M ssissippi Ave again meet with the elongated head in tbc Mandans, Ricaras, 
Assinaboins, and some other tribes."* The Minetaries, Crows, Blackfeet, and 
Oftoes are named along with those in his latest reference to the subject, thereby 
transferring the Ottoes from the brachycephalic to the dolichocephalic class, m 
which he had previously placed them; for, to his earlier statement, Dr. Morton 
superadds the further remark : " Yet even in these instances the characteristic 
truncature of the occiput is more or less obvious, Avhile many nations east of the 
Rocky mountains have the rounded head so characteristic of the race, as the 
Osages, Ottoes, Missouris, Dacotas, and numerous others. The same conformar 
tion is common in Florida; but some of these nations are evidently of the 
Toltecan family, as both their characteristics and traditions testify. The heads 
of the Caribs, as well of the Antilles as of terj-a Jirma, are also naturally 
rounded ; and we trace this character, as far as we have had opportunity for 
examination, through the nations east of the Andes, the Patagonians, and the 
tribes of Chili. In fact, the flatness of the occipital portion of the cranium will 
probably be found to characterize a greater or less number of individuals in 
every existing tribe from Terra del Fuego to the Canadas. If their skulls be 
viewed from behind, we observe the occipital outline to be moderately curved 
outward, wide at the occipital protuberances, and full from those points to the 
opening of the ear. From the parietal protuberances there is a slightly curved 
slope to the vertex, producing a conical or rather a Avedgc-shaped outline." 
These opinions arc still more strongly advanced in Dr. Morton's most matured 
views, where he affirms the American race to be essentially separate and peculiar, 
and with no obvious links, such as he could discern, between them and the 
people of the Old World, but a race distinct from all others. 

Some of the uniform features above referred to, and especially the flattened 
occiput, are the product, as I believe, not of the approximation to any typical 
form of skull, but of the subjection of the living head to the same artificial 
compression, with a nearly uniform result. But this department of the subject 
Avill come under review at a later stage. The views now set forth relative to the 
American cranial type are founded on an extensive sei-ies of observations orig- 
inally commenced in Canada, without any design to challenge the opinions set 
forth by the author of the Crania Americana, and subsequently reiterated by 
other distinguished American ethnologists. After liaving devoted minute atten- 
tion to some departments of primitive British craniology, my removal to Canada 
placed within my reach opportunities of judging for myself of the jihysical 
characteristics of the aboriginal occupants of the American forests and prairies, 
and I availed myself at first of those in the full anticipation of meeting Avitli 
such evidences of a general approximation to the assigned noi-mal American 
cranial type, as would confirm the deductions of previous observers. My chief 

•2 Crania Americana, p. 65 ; Physical Type of the American Indians ; History of Icdlna 
Tribes, vol. ii, p. 317. 



244 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

aim, iudced, originally was to acquire specimens of skulls approximating to the 
peculiar brachycephalic type found in one important class of early Britisli 
graves. It was, accordingly, simply with a sense of disappointment, that I 
observed the results of repeated explorations in different cemeteries furnish 
crania which, though landoubtedly Indian, exhibited little or no traces of the 
rounded form with short longitudinal diameter, strikingly apparent in certain 
ancient Mexican and Peruvian skulls, as well as in the rare examples hitherto 
recovered from the mounds of the Mississippi valley. Slowly, however, the 
conviction forced itself u})on me that to whatever extent this assigned typical 
skull may be found in other parts of the continent, those most frequently met 
with along the north shores of the great lakes are deficient in some of its most 
essential elements. Similar conclusions have been recorded by different observers. 
They are indicated by Dr. Latham, when comparing the Esquimaux and 
American Indian forms of skull, as determined by Dr. Morton ;* and have since 
been strongly affirmed by Dr. Retzius, who states that it is scarcely possible to 
find a more distinct separation into dolichocephalic and brachycephalic races 
than in America ;t nor should the remark of Professor Agassiz be overlooked, 
when, after referring to Dr. Morton's single American race, he adds: "But it 
should be remembered that in accordance with the zoological character of the 
whole realm, this race is divided into an infinite number of small tribes, pre- 
senting more or less difference one from another." It is indeed necessary to 
determine what must be regarded as the essential requisites- of Dr. Morton's 
American typical cranium; for neither he nor his successors have overlooked 
the fact of some deviation from this supposed normal type, not only occurring 
occasionally, but existing as a permanent characteristic of some tribes. As has 
been already shown, Dr. Morton recognized a more elongated head as pertaining 
to certain of the northern tribes, but this he speaks of as a mere slight variation 
from the more perfect form of the normal skull ; and he adds : " Even in these 
instances the characteristic truncation of the occiput is more or less obvious. "| 
So also Dr. Nott, after defining the typical characteristics of the American 
cranium, remarks : " Such are more universal in the Toltecan than the barbarous 
tribes. Among the Iroquois, for instance, the heads were often of a somewhat 
more elongated form; but the Cherokees and Choctaws, who, of all barbarous 
tribes, display greater aptitude for civilization, present the genuine type in a 
remarkable degree. My birth and long residence in southern States have per- 
mitted the study of many of these living tribes, and they exhibit this conformation 
almost without exception. 1 have also scrutinized many Mexicans, besides 
CataAvbas of South Carolina, and tribes on the Canada lakes, and can bear 
witness that the living tribes everywhere confirm Morton's type."§ 

In selecting a skull, which seemed to Dr. Morton in all respects to fulfil the 
theoretical requii-ements of his typical cranium, we are guided, under his direc- 
tions, to that ancient people who, in centuries long prior to the advent of Euro- 
peans, originated some remarkable traits of a native civilization in the valleys 
of the eastern tributaries of the Mississippi. It will, therefore, coincide with 
his choice of an example of the true American head, if, starting from that 
ancient race, we pursue our comparisons downward to the nations and tribes 
' .familiar to Europeans by direct intercoui'se and personal observation. 

Among the most prized crania in the collection of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences at Philadelphia is the celebrated Scioto mound skull, fjimiliarly known 
to many by means of the views of it introduced among the illustrations of 

"~" Natural History of the Varieties of Man, p. 453. 

f Arch des Scieuces Naturelles, Geneva, 1860. The views set forth here were first pub- 
lished by the author at the meeting of the Ainericaa Association for the Advaucemeut of 
Science, in 1857. Vide Edin. Philosoph. Journal N. S., vol. vii. 

J Crania Americana, p. 69 ; History of Indian Tribes, vol. ii, p. 317. 

§ Types of Mankind, p. 441. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



245 



Messrs. Squier and Davis's " Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley." 
A careful examination of tlie original, however, brings out features of this 
remarkable skull, by no means apparent in the engravings. The vertical view, 
especially, is inaccurate. In the original it presents the peculiar character- 
istics of what I have before designated the truncated form : passing abruptly 
from a broad flattened occiput to its extreme parietal breadth, and then taper- 
ing, with slight lateral swell, until it reaches its least breadth, immediately 
behind the external angular processes of the frontal bone. The occiput has been 
subjected to the flattening process to a much greater extent than is apparent 
from the drawings; but at the same time it is accompanied by no corresponding 
affection of the frontal bone, such as inevitably results from the procedure of the 
Chinooks and other Flathead tribes ; among whom the desired cranial deforma- 
tion is effected by bandages crossing the forehead and consequently modifying 
the frontal as much as the parietal and occipital bones. On this account, great 
as is the amount of flattening in this remarkable skull, it is probably due solely 
to the iindesigned pressure of the cradle-board acting on a head of markedly 
brachycephalic proportions and great natural posterior breadth. The forehead 
is fully arched, the glabella prominent, and the whole character of the frontal 
bone- is essentially different from the Indian type. The sutures are very much 
ossified, and even to some extent obliterated. 

The '' Scioto mound cranium," the best authenticated and most characteristic 





Fiir. 1. 



¥\s. 2. 



of the crania of tlie mound-builders, when discovered, lay embedded in a com- 
pact mass of carbonaceous matter, intermingled with a few detached bones of 
the skeleton and some fresh-water shells. Over this had been heaped a mound 
of rough stones, on the top of which, incovered by the outer layer of clay, lay 
a large plate of mica, that favourite material of the ancient mound-builders. 
This is the skull which, according to the description of Dr. Morton, furnishes the 
best example of the true typical American head. It is produced as such by 
Dr. Nott, in the T//pes of Mankind, and, as described by Dr. Morton, "it is, per- 
haps, the most admirably formed head of the American race hitherto discovered. 
It possesses the national characteristics in perfection, as seen in the elevated 



246 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

vertex, flattened occiput, great interparietal diameter, ponderous bony structure, 
salient nose, large jaws and broad face. It is the perfect type of Indian con- 
formation, to which the skulls of all the tribes from Cape Horn to Canada more 
or less approximate." 

Of this skull the measurements which involve the most essential typical 
elements, and so furnish precise materials for comparison, are — 

Longitudinal diameter 6.5 inches. 

Parietal diameter 6. " 

Vertical diameter 6.2 " 

Inter-mastoid arch 16. " 

Horizontal circumference 19.8 " 

So that, in fact, the cranium very closely corresponds in its measurements, in 
length, breadth, and height. Still further, it may be noted that the singular 
longitudinal abbreviation of this skull is nearly all posteriorly. A line drawn 
through the auditory foramen in profile, parallel to the elevated forehead, divides 
it into two unequal part^?, of which the anterior and posterior parts are nearly 
in the ratio of three to two. If, however, we turn from the definition of the 
American typical form, as recorded in relation to this particular skull, and reduce 
it to the general formulae derived by its originator from the examination of 
numerous examples, it amounts to this: A small receding forehead, somewhat 
broad at the base, but with a greatly depressed frontal bone; a flattened or 
nearly vertical occiput; viewed from behind, an occipital outline which curves 
moderately outwards, wide at the occipital protuberances, and full from these 
points to the opening of 'the ear; from the parietal protuberances a slightly 
cutved slope to the vertex, producing a wedge-shaped outline; a great vertical 
(jiameter, and the predominant relative .interparietal diameter of the brachy- 
cephaJic cranium. If to those are added the large quadrangular orbits, the 
cheek-bones high and massive, the maxillary region salient and ponderous, and 
the nose prominent, we have, nearly in Dr. Morton's own words, the character- 
isxc features of that American cranium which prevails among both ancient 
and modern tribes of the brachycephalic typo, and has been assumed by him as 
universal. 

It is with great diffidence that I venture to challenge conclusions adopted 
after mature consideration by the distinguished author of the Crania Americana. 
The frontal bone of the Scioto mound skull is by no means depi'essed, but well 
arched, and the flattened occiput bears unmistakable evidence of an artificial 
origin. The conical or wedge-shaped vertex of the Indian head is very pai*- 
ti;ity traceable in the original, even when viewed from behind, and, altogether, 
when tried by Morton's own standard, it differs greatly from the American typi- 
cal cranium. The same skull has been selected, by Dr. J. C. Nott,* for the 
purpose of instituting a comparison with the well developed and characteristic 
head of a modern Indian, a Cherokee chief, who died while a prisoner at 
Mobile in 1837, and the two crania arc there engraved ,side by side, with other 
examples, "to show, through faithful copies, that the type attributed to the 
American races is found among tribes the most scattered ; among the semi-civi- 
lized and the barbarous; among living as well as among extinct races ; and that 
no foreign race has intruded itself into their midst, even in the smallest appre- 
ciable degree. "t. But, judging merely by the reduced profile drawings, placed 
in juxtaposition, without reference to precise measurements, the points of agree 

* Types cf Mankind, p. 442. 

tDr. Nott's definition is as follows: "The most striking- anatomical characters of the 
American crania are, small size; low, receding forehead; short antero-posterior diameter; 
great inter-parietal diameter; flattened occiput; prominent vertex; high cheek-bones ; pon- 
derous and somewhat prominent jaws." — 2'ypes of Manjcind, p. 441. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 247 

racnt are very partial. The vertical occiput of the ancient skull rounds some- 
what abruptly into a flat horizontal vertex, and with the well developed fore- 
head and short longitudinal diameter, gives a peculiar square form to it in pro- 
file. In the modern skull, on the contrary, the occipital flattening is not so much 
that of the occiput proper as of the posterior part of the parietal, together with 
the upper angle of the occipital bone; thereby uniting Avith the receding fore- 
head of the latter, to produce a conoid outline, in striking contrast to the square 
form of the other. Still further, a vertical line drawn through the auditory fora- 
men shows a remarkable preponderance of posterior cerebral development in the 
ancient skull, constituting indeed its most striking peculiarity. But a compar- 
ison of the measurements of the two skulls serves no less effectually to refute 
the supposed correspondence adduced in proof of a typical unity traceable 
throughout tribes and nations of the western hemisphere the most widely sepa- 
rated alike by time and space. 

Ancient. Modern. 

Longitudinal diameter 6.5 6.9 

Parietal 6.0 5.7 

Vertical 6.2 5.4 

Frontal 4.5 4.6 

Inter-mastoid arch 16.0 15.5 

Inter-mastoid line 4.5 4.75 

Occipito-frontal arch 13. S 14.4 

Horizontal circumference 19.8 20.4 * 

It is not to be supposed that any single skull can be selected as the embodi- 
ment of all the essential typical characteristics either of the ancient or the mod- 
ern cranial conformation ; nor can we deduce general conclusions as to the physi 
cal characteristics of the ancient mound-builders from the remarkable example- 
above referred to. We lack, indeed, sufficient data as yet for any absolute deter- 
mination of the cranial type of the mounds; but the Scioto mound skull cannol. 
with propriety be designated as "the only skull incontestably belonging to au 
individual of that race." The Grave creek Mound craniimi, figured by Dr. 
Morton, belongs no less indisputably to the same race, and presents in its arched 
forehead, prominent superciliary ridges, and compact, uniformly rounded profile, 
a general correspondence to the previous example.* In 1853 Ur. J. C. Warren 
exhibited to the Boston Natural History Society the cast of a second and more 
perfect skull from the same mound, t which I have since examined and measured 
in the collection of Dr. J. Mason AVarren. It is also worthy of note that sev- 
eral inferior maxillary bones of the mound skeletons have been recovered nearly 
entire. They are remarkable for their massiveness, but are described as less 
projecting than those pertaining to the skeletons of a later date.| Another 
skull figured by Dr. Morton, from a mound on the Upper Mississippi, was obtained 
from an elevated site bearing considerable resemblance to that where the Scioto 
valley cranium was found, but the evidence is insufficient to remove the doubts 
which its proportions suggest, that in this, as in so many other cases, we have 
only one of those later interments habitually made by the modern Indians in 
the superficial soil of the mounds. It is better, meanwhile, to reject all doubtful 
specimens than to incur the risk of cumbering such well-authenticated evidence 
as we may anticipate with uncertainty and confusion. The following table 
includes a series of measurements of mound and ancient cave crania, mostly 
taken by myself from the originals in the collection of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences at Philadelphia and elsewhere: 



* Crania Americana, pi. liii, p. 223. 

\ Proceedings of Boston Natural History Society, vol. iv, p. 331. 

t Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, p. 290. 



248 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 
Table I.— MOUND AND CAVE CEANLi.. 





Locality. 


L. D. 


P. D. 


F. D. 


V. D. 


I. A. 


I. L. 


O. F. A. 


H. C. 


1 


Scioto Mound 


6.5 


6.0 


4.5 


6.2 


16.0 


4.5 


13.8 


19.8 


9 


Grave Creek Mound. . . 


6.G.' 


6.0 




5.0 






14.2? 




3 


....do 


6.G 


6.0 


4.0 


5.4 


15.6 


4.3 




20.2 


4 


Tennessee Mound 


6.(3 


5.6 


4.1 


5.6 


1.5.2 


4.4 


14.0 


19.5 


5 


Huron^Eiver, Ohio 


6.7 


5.7 


4.0 




14.8 


4.4 


14.? 


19.8 


(5 


do (Fern.). 


6.7 


5.4 


4.0 


5.4 


14.0 


4.2 


13.7 


19.9 


7 


Ohio Mound.. (Feui.). 


6.4 


5.3 


4.0 


5.0 


14.2? 


4.? 


..., 


19.0 


8 


Alabama Mound 


6.2 


5.4 


4.3 


4.9 


14.6 


3.8 


13.3 


18.5 


9 


Golconda Cave 


6.7 


5.4 


4.3 


5.5 


14.5 


4.1 


14.0 


19.3 


10 


Steubenville Cave 


7.0 


6.1 


4.6 


5.6 


15.5 


4.3 


14.0 


l'<0.5 


11 


....do 


6.8 


5.9 


4.4 


5.7 


15.5 


4.5 


14.4 


20.5 


12 


....do 


G.-3 


5.9 


4.9 


5.7 


1.5.8 


5.0 


14.1 


20.0 


13 


....do 


6.6 


6.0 


4.6 


5.1 


14.G 


4.2 


13.3 


20.0 


14 


....do F.. 


6.6 


5.4 


4.3 


5.1 


14.? 


4.3 


13.9 


19.0 


15 


....do .• 


7.0 


5.8 


4.5 


5.5 


14.9 


4.5 


14.4 


20.3 


16 


....do 


6.7 


6.0 


4.5 


5.7 


15.4 


4.7 


14.1 


20.3 


17 


....do F.. 


6.2 


6.1 


4.5 


4.9 


15.? 


4.? 


13.3 


19.4 


18 


.-..do 


7.1 


5.7 


4.6 


5.0 


15.0 


4.4 


14.2 


20.2 


19 


....do 


6.2 


6.0 


4.5 


5.5 


14.8 


4.0 


13.2 


19.4 


20 


Kentucky Cave 


6.1 


5.4 


4.4 


5.6 


14.5 


4.4 


13.6 


18.4 


21 


....do 


6.7 


5.5 


4.5 


6.2 


13.5 


5.0 




19.7 


Mound Crania mean.. 


6.54 


5.67 


4.13 


5.36 


14.91 


4.23 


13.83 


19.53 


Cave Crania mean 


6.62 


5.78 


4.51 


5.47 


14.85 


4.42 


13.87 


19.77 


Total mean 


6.58 


5.74 


4.37 


5.43 


14.87 


4.35 


13.86 


19.68 



Of the series embraced in this table, though all are ancient, only the first four 
can be relied upon as undoubted examples of the crania of the mounds. In 
comparing them with others, there are indications of a peculiar cranial type par- 
tially approximating to the brachycephalic Peruvian cranium ; but this assumed 
correspondence has been exaggerated, and some imi)ortant differences have been 
slighted or ignored in the zeal to establish the affinities which such an agree- 
ment would seem to imply. In vertical elevation the Peruvian cranium is 
decidedly inferior; and another point of distinction, borne out, by the few well- 
authenticated mound crania, is the well-formed and arched frontal bone, unaf- 
fected by the pressure to which the flattened occiput must be in part ascribed, 
and accompanied by great prominence of the superciliary ridges. These differ- 
ences were overlooked by Dr. J. 0. Warren, who pronounced the Mound and 
Peruvian crania to be identical. A greater correspondence seems to me to be 
traceable between the most ancient crania of the Mexican valley and those of 
the mounds. But, tempting as are the conclusions which such analogies sug- 
gest, any final decision on the subject must be reserved until further discoveries 
place within our reach a sufficient number of skulls of the ancient Mound- 
huilders as well authenticated as those of the Scioto valley an'd Grave creek 
mounds. This there is little hope of achieving, until a systematic exploration 
is instituted under the direction of a carefully constituted scientific commission, 
the organization of which would reflect credit on the government of the United 
.States. The Cave crania, Nos. 9-21, are a remarkable series of ' undoubted 
antiquity, and present a nearer approximation to those of the Mounds than any 
other class. Their most notable divergence from the mound type, in the parietal 
diameter, disappears if the doubtful examples of the latter, Nos. 5-S, are ex- 
cluded, as in Table X. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 249 

Turning from this review of the meagre data hitlicrto recovered from tlie 
ancient sepulchral mounds, let us next consider tlie two great civilized nations 
of the New World, the Peruvians and Mexicans. Their civilization had an 
independent origin and growth. The scenes of its development were distinct; 
and each exhibited special characteristics of intellectual progress. Nevertheless, 
they had so much in common, that the determination of tlie physical type 
peculiar to eacli will be best secured by ascertaining what is common to both. 

When Dr. Morton first undertook the investigation of the cranial character- 
istics of the American races, he admitted the force of the evidence presented 
to him in the examination of a number of ancient Peruvian skulls, and has 
recorded in his Crania Americana a distinct recognition of fclie traces of well- 
defined brachyceplialic and dolichocephalic races among the ancient Peruvians.* 
But the seductive charms of his comprehensive theory of an American ethnic 
unity ultimately prevailed over the earlier opinion, which, even in the Crania 
Americana, was stated as the legitimate deduction from the evidence in ques- 
tion, without being incorporated into the author's concluding propositions; and 
he accordingly states his conviction that all the extremest varieties of the Peru- 
vian head were naturally of the same rounded shape, and owe their diversities 
of form to artificial deformation. In this, as in others of the deductions drawn 
by Dr. Morton from the carefully accumulated data which his well-directed 
industry contributed to the science, it is obvious that his mind dwelt too exclu- 
sively on one or two of the leading characteristics of the more numerous varie- 
ties of American crania; and, like others who have satisfied their minds in regard 
to one central type, he evaded every variation from it, by assuming it as a mere 
exceptional aberration. 

A revision of the evidence accumulated by Dr. Morton, along v/ith additional 
illustrations derived from other sources, suggests conclusions in reference to 
Peruvian cranial forms at variance with the idea of a universally prevalent 
rounded, or brachycephalic Peruvian head. In pursuing my researches on this 
subject, I have enjoyed the advantage of minutely studying and measuring aii 
interesting collection of crania and mummied bodies, brought by John II. Blake, 
esq., of Boston, from ancient Peruvian cemeteries on the shores of the Bay 
of Chacota, in latitude 18° 30' S. In addition to those the following tables of 
Peruvian cania include measurements made from others, in the collections of 
Dr. J. M. Warren and the Natural History Society of Boston; in that of the 
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and of the Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington. The materials upon which Dr. Morton based his final opinion 
that the dolichocephalic crania found in ancient Peruvian graves deiivc their 
form and proportions from artificial causes, and consequently that these have 
no ethnical significance, are still accessible ; and the bearings of the additional 
evidence since accumulated justify a reconsideration of the proofs. Since the 
subject was taken up by him the effects, not only of designed, but also of unde- 
signed artificial compression, and of posthumous distortion, on cranial forms, 
have been minutely studied. The application of continuous pressure on the 
skull during infancy can be carried so far as to obliterate nearly every trace of 
its normal proportions. But it cannot substitute for them a symmetrical artifi- 
cial conformatioHi. Even comparatively slight pressure is betrayed by a corre- 
sponding amount of inequality in the opposite sides of the head; and when the 
compression is such as would be required to convert a brachycephalic head, 
averaging 6.3.in longitudinal diameter, by 5.3 in parietal diameter, into a dolicho- 
cephalic head of 7.3 by 4.9 in diameter, the retention of anything like the 
normal symmetry is impossible. The following table of measurements illus- 
trates the proportions of the Peruvian brachycephalic skull : 

' Crania Americana, p. 98. 



250 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

Table II.— PERUVIAN BRACHYCEPHALIC CEANL\. 





Locality. 


L. D. 


P. D, 


F. D. 


V. D. 


I. .V. 


I. L. 


O. F. A. 


H. C. 


I 




6.0 
6.3 
6.6 
6.7 
6.1 
6.4 
6.2 
6.3 
6.3 
6.2 
6.5 
6.5 
5.8 
6.1 
6.7 
6.3 
6.2 
6.5 
6.6 
6.6 
6.3 
6.3 
6.4 
6.2 
6.1 
6.2 


5.2 
5.0 
5.3 
5.6 
5.6 
5.1 
5.8 
5.8 
5.9 
5.9 
5.9 
5.2 
5.7 
6.0 
6.0 
5.8 
5.4 
5.6 
6.0 
5.7 
5.5 
5.3 
5.5 
5.5 
5.9 
5.8 


3.5 
3.5 
3.4 
3.6 
3.4 
3.2 
3.7 
3.6 
4.0 
3.4 
4.0 
4.3 
4.4 
4.7 
4.5 
4.5 
4.3 
4.5 
4.6 
4.2 
4.2 
4.4 
4.3 
4.4 
4.6 
4.3 


5.2 
5.3 
5.3 
5.4 
5.1 
5.1 
5.6 
5.4 
5.3 
5.0 
5.3 
5.1 
5.1 
5.5 
5.6 
5.3 
4.9 
5.0 
5.1 
5.2 
5.0 
4.6 
5.2 
5.0 
5.2 
4.9 












....do 

....do 

do 










•J 




j 




,1 










^ 




14.6 
14.5 
15.1 
15.6 
16.0 
14.7 
15.5 
U.J 
14.5 
16.0 
16.2 
15.0 
14.6 
14.7 
15.5 
15.5 
14.5 
14.0 
14.8 
13.6 
15.2 
14.5 


4.1 
4.1 
4.2 
4.2 
4.1 
4.3 
4.9 
4.0 
4.1 
4.5 
4.5 
4.0 
3.8 
3.8 
4.1 
4.4 
3.7 
3.9 
4.0 
3.8 
4.1 
4.1 


13.8 
12.7 
14.1 
14.5 
13.2 
13.3 
13.2 
13.5 
13.0 
13.2 
13.0 
13.2 
12.6 
13.2 
12.6 


18.4 


6 

7 


....do 

Peru 


19.0 
19.1 


8 




19.7 


q 


Titicaca 


19.2 


10 


do (145) 


20.1 


11 


do (146) 


19.5 


I'^ 




18.5 


13 
14 


Teuiple of Suu, F 

do 


18.4 
19.5 

20.2 


16 
17 


..-.do 


19.0 
18.5 


Irt 




19.2 


V> 


Pachacamac, F... 


19.8 


90 


do 


19.4 


21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 


....do F 

....do 

....do 

....do F 

....do F 

....do 


, 18.5 
18.7 
19.0 
18.7 
19.2 
18.7 




Mean .. . 


6.32 


5.62 


4.06 


5.18 


1 14.96 


4.12 


13.27 


19.10 









Of the diverse, elongated type of skull, undoubted examples have been re- 
peatedly recovered from Peruvian cemeteries, both in their normal condition 
and modified by artificial means. They are nearly all small, narrow, and with 
a marked predominance of the longitudinal diameter. Several of those meas- 
ured by me showed the average distance from a vertical line drawn' from the 
external auditory foramen to the most prominent part of the frontal bone to be 
only 2.7 inches, while from the same line to the most prominent part of the 
occipital bone it was 4.3 inches. Fully two-thirds of the cavity occupied by 
the brain lies behind the occipital foramen, and the skull, when su])ported on 
the condyles, falls backward. Compared Avith brachycephalic skulls, the fore- 
head is low and retreating; the temporal ridges approach near each other at the 
top of the head, a much larger space being occupied by the temporal muscles, 
between which the skull seems to be compressed. The zygoma is larger, stronger, 
and more capacious, and the whole bones of the face are more developed. The 
superior maxillary bone is prolonged in front, and the incisor teeth are in an 
oblique position. The bones of the nose are prominent, the orifices larger, and 
the cribriform lamella more extensive; the bony substance of the skull is thicker, 
and the weight greater. 

Among the numerous interesting illustrations of Peruvian characteristics ob- 
tained by Mr. Blake from ancient cemeteries on the Pacific coast, the most 
valuable for the purpose now in view are the skulls of two children, both of the 
dolichocephalic or elongated type ; but the one evidently in a normal condition, 
while the other betrays manifest traces of artificial deformation. It is impos- 
sible to examine the former Avithout feeling convinced that it illustrates a type 
of head entirely distinct from the more common brachycephalic crania, while 
the latter shows the changes Avrought by compression. Figure 3 exhibits the 
unaltered skull. It is that of a child, Avliich, judging chiefly from tlie state of 
the dentition, may be pronounced to have been about seven years of age. It is 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



251 



a well-proportioned, .symmetrical skull, unaltered by any artificial appliances, 
and will be observed to present the most striking typical contrast, if compared 
with an unaltered juvenile skull of the brachyceplialic type from the Peruvian 
cemetery of >Santa, engraved in the Crania Americana, Plate vii. The other 
elongated skull, exhibited in Figure 4, is manifestly of the same elongated type 
as Figure 3, but considerably altered by 'compression. The forehead is de- 
pressed, and the frontal suture remains open. It is that of a child of about five 
years of age ; so that both examples arc long past the age when the form of the 
head admits of material alteration by artificial means. 



A 




Wmm. 







I U 

i \ 

Fig.lr^ 

The following measurements give the comparative proportions of the normal 
and abnormal slaiUs figured above ; and of two other children's skulls, in the 
Morton collection, figured in the Crania Americana, Plates ii and vii. They 
are marked, A, normal child's skull ; B, abnormal do. ; C and JD, the Atacama 
and Santa skulls of the Crania Americana : 

A. B. C. D. 

Longitudinal diameter Q>.Q) 6.1 6,9 5.4 

Parietal diameter 4.6 4.4 4.5 5.4 

Frontal diameter 3.3 3.1 3.7 4. 

Vertical diameter 4.8 ? 4.3 ? 4.3 4.6 

From observations carried on in the cemeteries of Peru, Mr. Blake was led 
to the conclusion that the distinguishing traits thus far noted between two 
classes of the ancient Peruvians are not limited to the crania, but may be dis- 
cerned in other traces of their physical organization. In describing those of the 
rounded or brachyceplialic type of cranium, he adds : " The bones of the latter 
struck me as larger, h(;avier, and less rounded than those of the former, (the 






PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



elongated craiiia,) and in the larger size of tlie hands and feet they also present 
a noticeable difference. The remarkable narrowness and delicacy of the hands, 
and the long and regularly-formed finger-nails of the former, are strong evidence 
that they were unaccustomed to severe manual labor, such as must have been 
required for the construction of the great works of which the ruins remain. In 
all the cemeteries examined, where skulls of the rounded form have been found, 
those which are elongated have also been obtained." Remembering, however, 
that the sepulchral rites of the royal and noble Inca race were commonly ac- 
companied by the same human sacrifices traceahle among so many semi- 
civilized as well as barbarous nations, it is in no degree surprising that the 
crania of the two distinct classes, noble and serf, should be found deposited 
together in the same grave. After a minute comparison of all the brachy- 
cephalic Peruvian crania in the Morton collection, it appears to me that these 
also admit of subdivision into two classes distinguished by marked physiog- 
nomical diversity. The bones of the face in the one arc small and delicate, 
while the other exhibits the characteristic Mongol maxillary development and 
prominent cheek-bones. The iollowing table of measurements ilhistrates the 
proportions of the Peruvian dolichocephalic skull, as shown in examples brought 
by Mr. Blake from Peru, and in others preserved in the collections of Boston 
and Philadelphia: 

Table III.— PERUVIAN DOLICHOCEPHALIC CRANIA. 





Locality. 


L. D. 


P. D. 


F. D. 


1 
v. D. j 


I. A. 


I. L. 


O. F. A. 


n. c. 


1 




7.2 
7.3 

7.0 
7.1 
6.9 
7.2 
7.0 
7.2 
7.3 
7.2 
6.8 
G.S 
6.8 


5.2 
4.9 
4.7 
5.2 
5.3 
5.3 
4.9 
5.1 
5.3 
5.5 
5.4 
5.2 
5.4 


3.6 
3.3 
3.2 
3.2 
3.6 
3.5 
3.0 
3.5 
4.3 
4.4 
4.8 
3.8 
4.5 


5.1 
4.9 
5.1 
5.0 
5.2 
5.6 
5.3 
5.2 
5.3 
5.1 
5.3 
5.3 
5.3 










o 


(.lo 










3 


S. of Avica 










4 

5 


14.1 
14.6 
14.6 
14.0 
13.9 
14.0 
14.8 
14.8 
14.1 
14.7 


4.0 
4.1 
4.0 
4.1 
4.0 
4.3 
4.1 
4.2 
4.0 
4.2 


15.0 

"vj.'o" 

13.7 
"l4j" 


20.0 
19.8 


6 


Peru . 


20.0 


7 
8 
q 


-..-do 

....do F 

Aricti . 


19.0 
20.0 
19.8 


10 


Atacaiua - 


20.2 


]] 


Titicaea 


19.4 


12 


Royal Tombs, F 

Pachacainac 


19.4 

19.5 












7.06 


5.18 


3.80 


5.21 


14.36 


4.10 


14.45 


19,71 









In an inquiry into the physical characteristics of the Peruvian nation, we are 
by no means limited to ihe cranial or the mere osteological remains recoverable 
from its ancient cemeteries. Like the Egyptians, the Peruvians employed their 
ingenious skill in rendering the bodies of their dead invulnerable to the assaults 
of " decay's effacing fingers;" and, like the inhabitants of the Nile Valley, they 
were able to do so under peculiarly favorable circumstances of soil and climate. 
The colors on Egyptian paintings, and the texture of their finer handiwork, 
which have shown no trace of decay through all the centuries during which 
they have lain entombed in their native soil or catacombs, fade and perish 
almost in a single generation when transferred to the humid climates of Paris 
or London. The natural impediments to decay probably contributed, alike in 
Egypt and Peru, to the origination of the practice of embalming. The ceme- 
teries already referred to are situated in a region where rain seldom or never 
falls ; and the dryness alike of the soil and atmosphere, when added to the 
natural impregnation of the sand with nitrous salts, almost precludes the decay 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



253 



of animal or vegotable matter, and preserves the finest woollen and cotton tex- 
tures, with their brilliant dyes undininsed by time. By the same means we are 
enabled to judge of the color and texture of the hair, the proportions and deli- 
cacy of the hands and feet, and the comparative physical development of two 
seemingly different races at various stages, from infancy to mature age. When 
we pass from the southern continent of America to the seats of ancient native 
civilization lying to the north of the Isthmus, a different class of evidence, in 
like manner, enlarges our range of observation. The artistic ingenuity of the 
ancient Peruvian potter has left valuable memorials of native portraiture, and 
the Mexican picture-writing, with the sculptures and terra-cottas, the products 
of Toltec and Aztec ceramic art, in like manner contribute important evidence 
i'iustrative of the physiognomy and physical characteristics of the ancient races 
of Anahuac. Still more, the elaborate sculptures and stuccoed bas-reliefs of 
Central America perpetuate in unmistakable characters the records of an 
ancient race, differing essentially from the modern Indian ; and the study of 
their cranial characteristics serves to confirm the deductions derived from those 
other independent soui'ces. 

The traditions of the Jilexican plateau pointed to the comparatively recent 
intrusion of the fierce Itlexican on older and more civilized races ; and various 
independent observers have at different times been tempted to trace associations 
botween the ancient Mound-builders of the Ohio, the elder civilized race of 
Mexico, and the Peruvians, whose peculiar remains are recovered from the 
tombs around Lake Titicaca. The predominant Mexican race at the era of the 
conquest appears from evidence of various kinds, including the portraiture in 
ancient Mexican paintings, to have been derived from one of the great stocks 
of the Red Indians of the northern continent. The features represented in the 
paintings are thoroughly Indian, and strikingly contrast with those of the 
older native race of Central America, as illustrated by their sculptures, bas- 
reliefs, and pottery. No doubt, however, the population of the Mexican plateau 
in the time of Montezuma included descendants of very different races. All 
the traditions of Mexico point to intrusion and conquest by successive invaders; 
and the cranial evidence, as produced in the following tables, shows that there 
also, very distinctive types of skull-forms appear to perpetuate the evidence of 
diverse races, and of a mixed stock intermingling the characteristics of the con- 
quering and the subject people. The same valuable American collections have 
lurnished the materials for the following comparative tables : 

Table IV.— MEXICAN DOLICHOCEPHALIC CEANIA. 





Locality. 


L. D. 


p. D. 


F. D. 


V. D. 


I. A. 


I. L. 


O. F, A. 


H. C. 


1 




7.1 
7.1 
7.1 
G.9 
7.1 
7.0 
7.0 
7.1 


5.0 
5.6 
5.7 
5.2 
5.6 
5.3 
5.4 
5.5 


3.8 
4.6 
4.4 
4.2 
4.5 
4.3 
4.3 
4.4 


5.5 
5.5 
5.2 
5.4 
5.4 
5.3 
5.3 
5.2 


"Vs's" 

15.9 
14.5 
15.2 
14.5 
15.0 
15.8 


4.2 
4.1 
4.0 
4.1 
4.3 
4.1 
4.1 
4.1 


"iKo", 

14.0 
14.0 
14.2 
14.0 
14.0 
14.0 


19.8 


9 




20.2 


3 


Ceno de Quesilas 


20.5 
19.2 


IS 




20.0 


6 


do 


20.0 


7 
8 


Mexico 

.--.do 


19.8 
20.4 






7.05 


5.41 


4.31 


5.35 


15.20 


4.12 


14.17 


19.99 









254 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



Table V.— MEXICAN BRACHYCEPHALIC CEANIA. 





Locality. 


L. D. 


p. D. 


F. D. 


1 

V. D. 


I. A. 


I. L. 


0. F. A. 


H. C. 


] 




6.6 
6.6 
6.3 
6.6 
6.8 
6.4 
6.6 


5.8 
5.7 
5.3 
5.3 
5.5 
5.7 
5.3 


3.9 
4.0 
4.4 
4.4 
4.6 
4.5 
4.3 


5.9 

"5.4" 

5.4 
6.0 
5.4 

5.2 


14.7 
15.0 
14.3 
14.0 
15.6 
14.6 
14.6 


4.3 

"4.2" 
4.0 
4.4 
4.5 
4.1 


"'i4.h" 

13.5 
14.0 
14.6 
13.5 
13.6 


20.0 


2 

3 


....do 


20.0 
19.2 


4 


....do 


19.3 
19.9 


6 




20.2 


7 


Mexico, modern 


19.0 






6.56 


5.51 


4.30 


5.55 


14.69 


4.25 


13.95 


19.66 









The Peruvians and Mexicans, with the ancient populations of Central 
America and Yucatan, constitute the Toltecan family of the two great divisions 
into which Dr. Morton divided his one American "race or species." The 
nations lying to the north of those seats of a native civilization were all classed 
by him into one family of the barbarous tribes, resembling the other in physical, 
but differing from it in intellectual characteristics. Yet, as we have seen, even 
Dr. Morton recognized some differences among them ; and Professor Agassiz 
speaks of their tendency to split into minor groups, though running really one 
into the other. The following tables, however, will show that the differences 
are of a far more clearly defined nature, and in realify embrace well-marked 
brachy cephalic and dolichocephalic forms ; while of these, the latter seems de- 
cidedly the most predominant. The examples are chiefly derived from the Phila- 
delphia collection, though with additional illustrations from the Boston cabmets 
already referred to, as well as from Canadian collections. Table VI, which 
illustrates the form of head most widely diverging in proportions from the 
theoretical type, shows in reality the prevailing characteristics of the north- 
eastern tribes, and could be greatly extenjjcd. The opposite or brachycephalic 
cranial formation is illustrated in Table VII. 

Table VI.— AMEEICAN DOLICHOCEPHALIC CKANIA. 





Tribe. 


L. D. 


P. D. 


F. D. 


v. D. 


I. A. 


I. L. 


0. F. A. 


H. C. 


1 




7.1 

7.3 

7.0 
7.3 
7.0 
7.2 
7.0 
7.2 
7.2 
7.4 
7.0 
7.3 
7.2 
7.8 
7.0 
7.8 
7.0 
7.6 
7.3 


5.6 
5.9 
5.6 
5.6 
5.9 
5.2 
5.3 
5.3 
5.0 
5.9 
5.9 
5.8 
5.5 
5.7 
5.2 
5.4 
5.5 
5.3 
5.5 


4.7 
4.6 
4.7 
4.2 
4.5 
4.2 
4.1 
4.3 
4.2 
4.6 
4.7 
4.8 
4.3 
4.4 
4.3 
4.6 
4.4 
4.3 
4.3 


5.5 
5.8 
5.4 
5.6 
5.8 
5.5 
5.4 
5.3 
.5.5 
5.5 
5.5 
.5.5 
5.5 
5.3 
5.2 
5.1 
6.2 
5.5 
5.5 


15.0 
15.9 
15.0 
15.2 
14.7 
14.5 
14.5 
14.1 
14.6 
15.3 
15.0 
15.1 
14.8 
16.0 
13.8 
14.4 
1.5.6 
15.0 
14.6 


4.1 
4.4 
4.1 
4.7 
4.6 
4.0 
4.0 
4.5 
3.9 
4.7 
4.2 
4.6 
4.1 
4.0 
4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
4.1 
4.6 


14.8 
15.3 
14.7 
15.0 
14.2 
14.6 
14.0 
14.0 
14.7 
14.2 
14.2 
14.2 
14.6 
15.8 
14.2 
14.5 
16.0 
15.5 
14.9 


20.3 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 


....do 

....do 

....do 

....do 


20.7 
20.2 
20.4 
20.5 
20.2 


7 
8 
9 


....do.. -F 

....do 


19.5 
19.1 
19.2 


10 
11 


Sauk....F 


■-'•.2 
20.9 


1'* 




20.9 


13 

14 
15 


....do 


20.2 
22.1 




19.5 


16 
17 

1« 




20.0 


....do 


21.5 
20.5 


19 


....do 


21.0 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 
Table VI.— Continued. 



255 



Tribe. 



Nauuikeag . 

...do 

Assinuboine 

...do 

Mandan, F. 
...do...F. 

Ricari 

Miuf^o 

Menominee . 

...do 

...do 

Minetari, F . 

Mean.. 



L. D. 



7.4 

(i.9 
7.6 
7.-5 
7.1 
7.0 
7.0 
7.1 
7.1 
7.1 
l.h 
7.3 



7.24 



p. D. 



5.0 
5.8 
5.7 
5.4 
5.3 
.5.2 
5.5 
5.8 
5.4 
5.4 
4.4 



.47 



F. D. 



4.4 
4.2 

4.6 
4.4 
4.3 
4.1 
4.1 
4.5 
4.1 
3.9 
4.0 
4.4 



4.36 



V. D. 



5.9 
5.3 
5.1 
5.2 
5.1 
5.3 
5.1 
5.2 
5.5 
5.? 
5.5 
5.1 



5.42 



1.5.0 
14.3 
14.9 
14.7 
14.2 
13.9 
13.5 
14.7 
14.7 
13.3 
14.5 
14.1 



14.67 



4.3 
3.9 
4.3 
4.6 
3.8 
4.2 
4.0 
4.1 
4.0 
4.4 
4.2 
4.1 



4.23 



14.0 
14.4 
14.9 
14.7 
14.6 
14.1 
14.0 
14.5 



14.7 



14.62 



19.8 
21.2 
20.8 
20.0 
19.8 
19.5 
20.2 
20.3 
19.3 
20.6 
20.2 



20.^ 



Table VII.— AMERICAN BRACHYCEPHALIC CRANIA. 



Tribe. 



L. D. P. D. 



Muskogee. 
....do 



Uchee 

Miusi 

Nalic'k 

...do 

Dacota 

....do 

Pawnee, F. 

....do 

....do 



...do 

Chetimachee 
Chimuyan . . 

Osage 

....do 



Creek . .. 
Choctaw . 
...do.... 



"Ohio Mound," F 

Goajiro 

....(io 



6.8 
6.6 
6.8 
6.7 
6.7 
6.7 
6.7 
6.8 
6.6 
6.6 
6.5 
6.7 
6.5 
6.5 
6.6 
6.5 
6.9 
6.5 
6.4 
6.4 
6.7 
6.5 



Mean 6.62 



0.0 

5.7 
5.4 
5.0 
5.2 
5.2 
5.7 
5.7 
5.4 
5.5 
5.5 
5.6 
5.7 
5.4 
5.7 
5.9 
.5.7 
5.1 
5.1 
5.3 
5.3 
5.1 



4.2 
4.5 
4.3 
4.2 
4.1 
4.3 
4.2 
4.3 
4.4 
4.1 
4.0 
4.3 
4.3 
4.2 
4.3 
4.6 
4.6 
4.0 
4.0 
3.9 



5.6 
5.3 
5.5 
5.3 
5.7 
5.3 
5.4 
5.5 
4.9 
5.4 
5.4 
5.5 
5.9 
5.2 
5.2 
5.3 
5.4 
4.7 
5.1 
5.0 
5.2 
4.9 



5.45 



4.24 j 5.30 



15.4 
15.3 
15.0 
14.0 
14.5 
14.2 
14.7 
15.1 
13.7 
15.0 
14.8 
15.1 
15.5 
14.3 
14.8 
15.1 
1.5.5 
12.5 
14.0 
14.2 



14.63 



4.3 
4.5 
4.4 
4.1 
4.1 
3.9 
4.4 
4.4 
4.3 
4.4 
4.4 
4.4 
4.1 
3.8 
4.7 
4.1 
4.7 
4.1 
4.0 
4.0 



15.0 
14.0 
14.3 
13.8 
14.3 
14.1 
13.5 
14.4 
13.0 
14.0 
14.1 
14.2 
14.0 
13.4 
13.8 
13.4 
14.4 
13.0 



13.4 

13.0 



13.85 



20.0 
20.4 
20.1 
19.3 
19.0 
19.1 
19.8 
20.1 
19.1 
19.5 
19.3 
19.6 
19.1 
18.8 
19.5 
19.5 
20.4 
18.7 
19.7 
19.0 
19.3 
18.5 



19.44 



But I noAV turn to the region around the northern lakes, where opportunities 
of personal observation first suggested to me the obvious discrepancies between 
the actual evidence disclosed by exhumation on the sites of native sepulture, 
and the theory of a typical unity manifested in the physical and peculiar cranial 
characteristics of the most widely-separated tribes and nations of the American 
continent. The Scioto IMouud skull, characterized by Dr. Morton as " the per- 
fect type of Indian confonnatiorl to which the skulls of all the tribes from Cape 
Horn to Canada more or less approximate," presents the remarkable anterior 
development of a cranium whereof two-thu'ds of the cerebral mass was in front 



256 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

of the meatus mulltorius externum ; whereas in the elongated Peruvian skull, 
unaltered by artificial means, this is almost exactly reversed, showing by the 
proportions of the cerebral cavity that fully two-thirds of the brain lay behind 
the meatus auditorius. These may be considered as representing the two ex- 
tremes ; but both of the two great stocks, between Avhom the northern region 
around the great lakes has been chiefly divided since the first intrusion of 
Europeans, belong to the dolichocephalic division. These are the Algonquins 
and the Iroq^aois, including in the latter the Hurons, who, with the Petuns, 
Neuters, and Eries, all belonged to the same stock, though involved in deadly 
enmity with each other. In the supposed typical Scioto Mound skull the lon- 
gitudinal, parietal, and vertical diameters vary very slightly ; and as the IMexi- 
can and Peruvian crania chiefly attracted Dr. Morton's attention, and are illus- 
trated minutely, as a scries, in his great work, it only required the further 
theory, which referred all the elongated skulls to an artificially modified class, 
to confirm in his mind that idea of a ])eculiarly formed cranium pertaining 
uniformly and exclusively to the New World. To the theoretical type of a 
head very nearly corresponding in length and breadth, though not in height, 
the most numerous class of Peruvian and Mexican brachyccphalic crania un- 
questionably approximate. Of one of the former, from the Temple of the Sun, 
(Plate xi,) Dr. Morton remarks : " A strikingly characteristic Peruvian head. 
As is common in this series of skulls, the parietal and longitudinal diameter is 
nearly the same," viz. : longitudinal, 6.1 ; parietal, 6.0 ; and, tested by this 
standard, he was even more justified in recognizing marked points of corre- 
spondence between the Mound skulls and what he calls " the Toltccan branch 
of the American race," than might seem reasonable from the miscellaneous 
character of the crania referred to by him as "Mound skulls." But the moment 
we test by actual measurement, a very wide difference is apparent betv/een the 
brachyccphalic crania of the class referred to, and the prevailing form of the 
head in many of the northern tribes, ^as among the Algonquins, Hurons, and 
Iroquois. The Algonquin stock are represented by Ottawas, Mississagas, 
Chippewas, and other tribes, Avithiu the area of Upper Canada and along the 
shores of Lake Superior. Of living Indians belonging to Iroquois and Algon- 
quin tribes I have examined, and compared by the eye, many at widely-scat- 
tered places : on the Than>es and Grand rivers, llice lake, Lake Simcoe and 
the Georgian bay ; at JIackinaw in Lake Huron, and at Sault Ste. Marie ; at 
Ontonagon, La Point, the Apostle islands, and the St. Louis river, on Lake 
Superior; and on the Saguenay, St. Charles, St. Maurice, and Ottawa rivers, in 
Lower Canada ; as well as on such chance opportunities as occur in the neigh- 
borhood of American and Canadian towns and villages. Physiognomically they 
present the large and prominent mouth, high cheek-bones, and broad face, so 
universally characteristic of the American Indian ; but they by no means pos- 
sess in a remarkable degree the Avide and massive lower jaw, which has been 
noted as of miiversal occurrence among the Red Indians ; and the aquiline nose 
is also absent in most of them. 

The crania found in ancient cemeteries and ossuaries around Lakes Ontario, 
Erie, and Huron, chiefly belong to the two families referred to ; and of the nation 
whose name is perpetuated in that of the last-named lake, the region occupied 
by it when first brought under the notice of the French Jesuit fathers is well 
defined ; so that there is little risk of error in the determination of the race to 
which the remains found in its ancient graves belong. A partial difference in 
their relative proportions appeai-s also to aid in the classification of the two 
ethnic divisions. The Algonquin cranium, though less markedly dolichocephalic 
than the Huron or Iroquois skulls, belongs to the same class ; and to one or 
other of those neJirly all the Canadian crania may with little hesitation be as- 
signed. 

Of Indian skulls chiefly dug up within the district once pertaining to the 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 257 

Huron or Wyandot branch of the Iroquois stock, I had observed and cursorily 
examined a considerabh; number, before my attention was especially drawn to 
the peculiar characteristics now under consideration, owing to repeated njection 
of those which turned up, as failing to furnish specimens of the assigned typical 
American head. Since then I have carefully examined and measured seventy 
Indiail skulls belonging, as 1 believe, to the Wyandot or the Algonquin stocks, 
with the following results : 

L Only five exhibit such an agreement with the assigned American type, as, 
judged by the eye, to justify their classification as true brachy cephalic crania. 
One very remarkable and massive skull was turned up at Barrio, on Lake 
Simcoe, within the Iluron region, with upwards of two hundred oth(!rs. It 
differs from all the others in exhibiting the vertical occiput so very strikingly, 
that when resting on it, it stands more firmly than in any other position. This 
is, without doubt, the result of artificial compression; and in so far as fashion 
regulated the varying forms thus superinduced on the natural cranial conforma- 
tion, it is suggestive of an intruder from the country lying towards the mouth 
of the Mississippi, where the ancient graves of the Natchez tribes disclose many 
ekulls moulded into this singular form. In some respects, indeed, it presents 
features strongly suggestive of comparison with the Scioto Mound skull, while 
the smallness of the lower jaw increases its divergence from the Iluron or other 
northern Indian type. No note has been preservisd of the general character of 
the crania discovered at the same time ; but this one no doubt owed its selection 
to its peculiar form. The whole subject of occipital and varied cranial com- 
pression is deserving of minuter consideration than is admissible in reference to 
the Iluron crania, which exhibit in general no traces of an abnormal forma- 
tion. Nor is Dr. Morton's assiginneut of the vertical occiput as one of the most 
characteristic features of the true American cranium borne out by an examina- 
tion of those found in Canadian cemeteries. On the contrary, I have been struck 
•with the evidence afibrded by the majority of skulls examined by me, that such 
■was certainly no prevailing characteristic of the iluron or other tribes, by whom 
Upper Canada was occupied prior to its European settlement. Many of them, 
indeed, exhibit a total absence of any approximation to the flattened occiput. 
Twenty of the crania referred to show a more or less decided posterior projec- 
tion of the occiput: eighteen of these being markedly so; and ten of them pre- 
sent such a prolongation of it, as constituted one of the most striking features 
in one class of ancient Scottish crania, which chiefly led to the suggestion of 
the term kumbecephalic, as a distinctive term for them. But since my observa- 
tions on this subject were first published,* the special question of the prevailing 
form of the occiput has been taken up in a valuable monograph contributed by 
Dr. J. Aitken Meigs to the Transactions of the Academy of Natural .-cienceg 
of Philadelphia. t The conclusions he arrives at are: that the form of the 
human occiput is not constant, but varies even among individuals of ihe same 
race or tribe. lie divides the different forms into three primary classes : 1st. 
The protuberant occiput, which is exhibited among the nations of the New 
World by the Esqumiaux, Chippewas, Ilurons, and more or less among thirty- 
six different American tribes or nations. 2d. The vertically flattened occiput 
he assigns as more or less prevalent among sixteen tribes, and characteristic of 
the majority of the Mound-builders. 3d. The full and rounded or globular 
occiput characterizes nine American nations or tribes, and occurs occasionally 
in a greater number. But the fiual summary of Dr. Meigs goes even further 
than this; and, trcciting as it does, not solely of the Ameiican, but of human 

*" Supposed prevalence of one Cranial Type throughout the Americau AhorigincH." — 
Canadian Journal, November, la. ,7; Ldutbiirgh New FhUosopkical Journal, January, 1858. 

t Obseroutions upon the Form of the Occiput in tht Various Races of Men, by J. Aitkea 
Meigs, M. D. Pimadelphiii, 18oU. 

17 S 



258 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

occipital formation generally, it very effectually deals with all theories of radical 
diversities of human varieties or distinct species, in so far as this important subdi- 
vision of osteological evidence is concerned, by affirming, as the result of observa- 
tions made on eleven hundred and twenty-live human crania, ''that there is a 
marked tendency of these forms to graduate into each other, more or less iusen- 
Bibly. None of these forms can be said to belong exclusively to any race or 
tribe. None of them, therefore, can be regarded as strictly typical : for a char- 
acter or form to be typical should be exclusive and constant." In his elaborate 
observations. Dr. ]\Ieigs has still left untouched the peculiarities Avhich distin- 
guish the female occi[)ut. One elongated protuberant form appears to mo to bo 
found only in the female head; but a comparative estimate of the occipital 
variatii)ns in the two sexes, as exhibited in the difTerent races, is necessary to 
complete this interesting inquiry. 

2. The tend(uicy to the pyramidal form, occasioned by the angular junction 
of the parietal bones, is apparent in the majority of the skulls examined. I 
have noted its occurrence as a prominent characteristic in twenty-three Canadian 
crania, of which ten exhibit a strongly marked pyramidal form, extending to 
the frontal bone. Nevertheless, it is by no means constant. Both in the Morton 
collection, and in the examples specially noted here, it is only slightly indicated 
in some, while in others it is entirely wanting. 

3. I am further struck with the veiy partial projection, and in somo 
male skulls with the total absence of the superciliary ridge: a characteristic 
which, so far as I am aware, has not been noted by other observers. In 
some the prominent ridge stretches entirely across the brow, forming a deep 
hollow at the junction of the os frontis and the bones of the nose; and this 
appears to be the case in the best authenticated Mound skulls. In the Scioto 
mound cranium it is markedly so, and it is little less apparent in the Grave 
creek niomul, Tennessee, and Mississippi skulls. In this respect they differ 
from the majority of the Peruvian crania, with which in other respects they have 
been snjiposed so nearly to agree, that, overlooking this prominent physiognom- 
ical featnr(>, the lost Mound-builders have been thought to reappear as the an- 
cient architects of Peru. In the great majority of the crania figured by IMorton, 
the very slight development, and in some, the total absence of a projecting 
superciliary ridge, is very noticeable. In thirteen of the Canadian skulls tho 
same feature is particularly manifest. In the majority of these the os frontis 
slopes Avithout any indentation to the edges of the orbits ; and when taken into 
consideration along with the pyramidal vertex and predominant longitudinal 
diameter, suggests affinities, hitherto overlooked, with the Esquimaux form of 
skull. 

4. It is also worthy of note that, whereas Dr. Morton states, as the result of 
his experience, that the most distant points of the parietal bones are for the 
most part the parietal protuberances: out of fifty-one Canadian skulls, I have 
only found such to be the case in three, all of Avhich were female. The widest 
parietal measurement is generally a little above the squamous suture, and in 
some examples a still wider diameter is given between the temporal bones. 
Somewhat minute observations, accompanied in part with measurements, of 
numerous examjiles in the unrivalled collection of the Academy of Sciences of 
Philadelphia, and elsewhere, incline me to believe that this is a common charac- 
teristic of American crania. 

The following tables (Tables Vlll, IX) exhibit the relative proportions of 
the crania Ibund in Upper Canada, in so far as they can be shown by such a 
scries of measurements. Embracing, as they do, the comparative length, breadth, 
height, and circumference of sixty-nine skulls, procured without any special 
selection from Indian cemeteries, lying, with only four exceptions, to the north 
of Lakes Erie and Ontario, they supply a series derived from a sufficient number 
to indicate some constant proportions, and to mark certain elements of conti'ast 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



259 



instead of comparison, when placed alongside of the corresponding relative pro- 
portions in the tables of brachycephalic crania. 

The measurements in Table VIll arc derived from thirty-seven cran!a 
obtained from Indian graves in the region around Lake Simcoe, and on the 
Georgian bay, the ancient country of the llurons. 

Table VIIL— WESTERN CANADA: IIUIiONS. 



Locality. 



F. D. v. D. 



O. F. A. n. C. 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

n 

12 

1:5 

14 
15 
16 
17 

18 
lU 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
2G 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
30 
37 



Orillia 
...do.. 



...do 

...do 

...do 

...do 

Owen Sound 
...do 



F... 



...do. 
...do. 
...do. 



...do 

Georgian Bay . . . 

...do F. 

...do F. 

Oro 

.do 



Medontc 
....do... 
....do... 



....do 

Penetanguisbene . 
....do 



....do 

...do 

Tecumseth 

....do F. 

....do 

....do F. 

....do F. 

....do 

....do 

White hureli 

Newmarket 

....do F. 

Oakridges 

....do F. 



5.7 
5.5 
5.7 
5.G 
5.3 
5.5 
5.5 
5.3 
5.4 
5.4 
.5.9 
.5.5 
5.(j 
5.2 
4.9 
5.G 
.5.4 
,5.2 
5.5 
.5.0 
5.3 
5.G 
5.5 
5.4 
.5.3 
.5.G 
5.2 
G.O 
5.3 
5.2 
5.G 
5.4 
5.3 
5.G 
.5.2 
5.5 
4.8 



4.5 
4.4 
4.2 
4.2 
4.3 
4.3 
4.2 
4.3 
3.8 
4.7 
5.1 
4.5 
4.2 
4.0 
4.2 
4.4 

3.9" 
4.4 
4.5 
4.2 
4.G 
4.1 
4.2 
4.2 
4.4 
3.9 
4.G 
4.3 
4.1 
4.G 
4.2 
4.2 
4.G 
4.1 
4.7 
4.2 



5.G 
5.4 
5.7 
5.4 
5.3 
5.1 
5.0 
5.3 
5.2 
.5.6 
.5.5 
5.4 
5.4 
5.2 
5.3 
5.5 
4.3 
5.G 
5.8 
5.6 
5.4 
5.9 
5.1 
5.2 
5.4 
5.5 
5.0 
5.7 
5.G 
5.1 
5.5 
5.7 
5.7 
6.7 
5.3 
6.0 
5.0 



Mean 7.40 



5.43 



4.35 



5.43 



1.5.6 
14.7 
15.3 
14.7 
14.5 
13.7 
13.8 
14.4 
14.5 
14.6 
1.5.0 
14.6 
14.6 
13.3 
13.3 
15.6 
15.2 
14.8 
1.5.2 
1.5.4 
14.2 
15.5 
14.0 
14.5 
14.6 
14.5 
14.1 
16.0 
14.0 
1.3.4 
1.5.0 
15.1 
15.1 
15.7 
14.7 
15.7 
13.6 



4.2 
4.5 
4.3 
4.3 
4.3 
4.2 
4.0 
4.2 
3.9 
4.2 
4.3 
4.5 
4.7 
3.8 



4.3 
4.0 
4.5 
4.5 
4.2 
4.1 
4.5 
4.1 
4.4 
4.1 
4.9 
3.6 
3.4 
4.1 
4.2 
4.4 
4.4 
4.2 
4.2 
4.0 
4.6 
4.0 



15.0 



14.66 4.23 



]4.1 
14.6 
14.3 
14.3 
14.0 
14.2 
14.2 
15.0 
1.5.6 
14.9 
15.0 
13.7 
14.1 
15.2 
14.9 
1.5.2 
14.5 
15.0 
14.4 
15.6 



14.4 
14.4 
14.2 
16.1 
14.3 
14.8 
15.0 
1.5.3 
14.6 
15.0 
14.1 
15.0 
13.2 



21.1. 
20.6. 
20J5 
21.1 
20.3. 
20.5 
19.8 
20.4 
19.9 
21.4 
21.8 
21.3 
21 1 
19 J) 

26 JX 

21.4 

20.4. 

20.5 

20.2 

21.4 

20.4 

21.3 

19.7 

20.7, 

20ji 

20.2 

19.7 

20.D 

20.S. 

20.5 

203 

203 

20.4 

20.3 

19J5 

21.2 

18.9 



14.85 



20.48 



The localities specified in the following table show the wider region from 
whence the skulls have been procured which are assumed to illustrate the cranial 
characteristics of the Algonquin stock. The table includes the measurements 
of thirty-two Canadian skulls, the whole of which have been obtained from 
graves lying to the south and cast of the true Huron country, towards the f^hores 
of Lakes Erie and Ontario, or on the north bank of the St. Lawrence. Some 
portions of Western Canada, including localities referred to, were occupied in 
the early part of the seventeenth century by tribes allied to the llurons ; but 
on their deserted areas the Algonquins from the north and west have everywhere 
preceded the English settlers, and the greater number of the crania introduced 
in this table may be assigned without hesitation to Algonquin tribes. No. 23 



260 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



is designated by Dr Morton a Mississaga skull, and probably most, if not all, 
of those numbered consecutively from 16 to 28 belong to the same tribe. Nos. 
28 to 32 are from Abenakis g'-aves on the St. Maurice. As a whole, the exam- 
ples thus grouped together present a sufficient number to furnish some adequate 
approximation to the prevailing typical specialties of the Algonquin head. 

Table IX.— CANADA: ALGONQUINS. 



Locality. 



L. D. P. D. ! F. D. 



H. C, 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16' 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

'^4 

25 

2a 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

82 



Windsor 



. ao. 
.do. 



....do G. 

Buifoi d I G. 

Giaud River : 6. 

do 7. 

Burlington Bay ' 7 . 

....do \ 7. 

Nelson, F : 7. 

do ' 8. 

do 7. 

....do.-F 7. 

....do..F 7. 

do.. F 7. 

liiver Humber i 7. 

....do ' G. 

....do I 7. 

Burwick ! 7. 

.-..do 7, 

Peterboio' ! 7. 

do i 7. 



...do 1 G. 

...do I 7. 

Rice Lake 7. 

Bay of Quinto • 7. 

...do ' 7. 

.. .do * 7, 

i St. Maurice I 7. 

... do j 7 

...do ^ 7. 

Three Rivers ' 7, 



.5.7 
G.l 
5.3 
5.2 
5.4 
5.6 
5.3 
5.6 
5.2 
5.5 
5.9 
5.5 
5.4 
5.4 
5.9 
5.6 
5.5 
5.7 
5.1 
5.5 
5.3 
5.2 
5.2 
6.5 
5.8 
5.5 
6.0 
5.3 
5.7 
5.5 
G.5 



4.7 
4.5 
4.9 
4.2 
4.1 
4.2 
4.4 
4.4 
4.4 
4.2 
4.3 
5.3 
4.1 
4.0 
3.7 
5.7 
4.5 
4.2 
4.2 
4.4 
4.9 
4.2 
3.9 
4.3 
3.9 
4.5 
4.2 
4.8 
4.1 
5.0 
4.7 
5.0 



5.7 
5.7 
5.7 
5.5 
5.0 
5.2 
5.4 
5.3 
5.4 
5.5 
5.5 
5.4 
5.1 
5.2 
5.3 
5.5 
5.1 
5.3 
5.6 
5.6 
5.3 
5.3 
4.9 
5.2 
6.3 
5.3 
5.0 
5.3 
5.3 
5.5 
5.5 
5.1 



15.2 
16.1 



14.5 
13.4 
14.3 
ir.o 
14.0 
15.2 
14.0 
14.9 
15.0 
14.0 
14.4 
14.3 
15.4 
14.1 
14.5 
15.3 
14.3 
15.4 
i:!.8 
13.3 
13.8 
14.5 
14.3 
14.0 
14.6 
13.0 
14.2 
14.0 
14.2 



4.3 
4.0 
4.5 
4.2 
4.0 
4.0 
4.1 
4.0 
4.2 
4.6 
4.3 
4.7 
4.3 
4.3 
4.0 
4.7 
4.5 
4.2 
4.5 
4.3 
4.6 
4.2 
.3.8 
4.1 
4.3 
4.9 
4.6 
4.7 
4.4 
5.0 
4.2 
4.6 



14.5 
14.4 
15.5 
13.5 
13.0 
13.5 
15.2 
13.6 
14.9 
15.0 
15.5 
15.3 
14.7 
14.4 
14.3 
14.2 
13.9 
14.3 
14.9 
14.7 
15.0 
14.1 
13.7 
14.2 
14.2 
14.8 
13.9 
14.5 
14.0 
14.4 
14.5 
15.0 



20.1 
20.1 
21.4 
19.0 
18.4 
19.3 
21.0 
19.5 
20.9 
20.4 
21.0 
21.5 
20.5 
20.5 
19.8 
21.1 
19.9 
20.3 
21.0 
21.0 
21.1 
20.6 
19.2 
19.3 
20.0 
21.7 
20.5 
20.9 
20.5 
21.0 
20.7 
21.9 



Mean ; 7.25 



5.58 i 4.43 



5.37 



14.42 



14.42 20.44 



But the term Algonquin, though apparently specially employed originally in 
rei'erence to (Janndian tribes, is now used as a generic appellation of a very 
comprehensive kind, and embraces ancient and modern tribes extending from 
the Labrador aiid New England coasts to f;ir beyond the head of Lake Supe- 
rior. In this comprehensive use of the term, its application is chiefly based on 
philological evidence ; and it points thereby to affinities of language connecting 
numerous and widely-severed nations throughout the whole area lying between 
the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic. 

The New England tribes are described as having all presented a very uniform 
correspondence in their predominant characteristics. Dwight, in his Travels in 
N'?o England, says of them : " They were tall, straight, of a red complexion, 
wi.h black eyes, and of a vacant look when uuimpassioned; " but he ascribes 
to them a good natural understanding and considerable sagacity and wit. Thej 
ti-ij not, even now, entirely extinct; bat, liK.e others of the eastern tribes that 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 2G1 

have been long in contact with the Avhitcs, it is difficult to find a pni-o-bvoed 
Indian among the remnants that still linger on some of their ancient (^ites. 
Judging, however, from the examples I have seen, it is probable that the red 
complexion, which Dwight assigns to the New England tribes, may have much 
more accurately justified the application of the term Red Indian to th(^ aborigines 
first seen by European voyagers along the northern shores of the American con- 
tinent than is now apparent when observing the olive-complcxioned Chijtpewas, 
Crees, and other tribes of the west. Gallatin has grouped the New England 
Indians along with the Delawares, the Powhattans, the Pamlleoes, and other 
tribes of the Atlantic sea-board, extending as far south as North Carolina, under 
the comprehensive title of Algnnquin-Lenape. There is no doubt that import- 
ant philological relations serve to indicate affinities running through the whole, 
and to connect them with the great Algonquin stock; while the essetitially 
diverse Iroquois and Huron nations were interposed between them. The result 
of a careful examination and comparison of measurements of thirty-two New 
England crania, chiefly in the Boston and Philadelphia collections, has been to 
determine their classification as decidedly dolichocephalic, and is shown in the 
mean measurements as given in Table X. 

Under the double title of Algonquin-Lenapc have been included all the Indian 
nations originally occupying the vast tract of the North American continent, 
extending from beyond the Gulf of the St. Lawrence to the area of the Florida 
tribes, and claiming the whole territory between the Mississippi and the sea, 
excepting where the Hurons and the aggressive Iroquois held the country around 
the lower lakes, and the Five Nations were already extending their hunting- 
grounds at the cost of Algonquin and Lenap(; tribes. The mean of the latt(n', 
as given in Table X, is derived from twenty-three crania, chiefly in the llort- 
onian collection; and the mean of the Iroquois crania is based on measurements 
of forty-eight skulls from Canadian and other collections. 

Thus far the various ethnical groups referred to are all embraced within the 
true American stock, of which Dr. Morton and others affirm a nearly absolute 
uniformity of cranial type, or such an approximation to it as serves, in their esti- 
mation, to indicate no less clcarl}' the unity of the American race, and its specific 
separation, by radical diversity of ethnical characterit-tics, from all the races of 
the Old World. " Identical characters," says Dr. Nott, "pervade all ihe Amer- 
ican race, ancient and modern, over the whole continent."* Again he says, 
"American crania, antique as well as modern, are unlike those of any other race 
of ancient or recent times ; " and, " at the time of its discovery, this continent 
Avas po[)ulated by millions of people resembling each other, possessing peculiar 
moral and physical characteristics, and in utter contrast with any people of the 
Old World. "t These may suffice to illustrate the opinions on this subject reiter- 
ated in a variety of forms by various writers, including men of high authority 
in questions of science. All, however, concur in excepting from this otherwise 
universal uniformity of ethnical characteristics those which pertain to the Esqui- 
maux. They are referred to by Dr. JMorton as "the only people possessing 
Asiatic characteristics on the American continent;" and the very contrast thus 
exhibited between them and all the other races of the western hemisphere has 
been assumed as a confirmation of the indigenous unity of the others. But, 
while this abrupt contrast in physical form is insisted on, it is acknowledged 
that no such philological line of demarkation can be traced; but, on the con- 
trary, in language the Esquimaux are thoroughly American. 

My opportunities for examining Esquimaux crania have been sufficient to fur- 
nish me with very satisfactory data for forming an opinion on tli(^ tru(! Arctic 
skull form. In addition to the measurements of thirty-eight skulls, from which 

* Trjpes of Mankind, p. 291. 
t ma, p. 291). 



262 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

tlic Esquimaux mean of Tablo X is derived, I have recently compared and care- 
fully measured six Tclmktchi skulls, in the collection of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, exhumed from the burial-place of a village called Tergnyuue, on the 
island of Arikamcheche, at Glassnappc harbor, west of Bhering's straits ; and, 
during a recent visit to Philadelphia, I enjoyed the advantage of examining, in 
company with Dr. J. Aitken Meigs, a series of one hundred and twenty-five 
Esquimaux crania, obtained by Dr. Hayes during his Arctic journey of ISGO. 
The comparison between the Tchuktchi and the true Esquimaux skull is inter- 
esting. Without being identical, the correspondence in form is such as their 
languages and other aflinities would suggest. Of the former, moreover, the num- 
ber is too few, and the derivation of all of them from one cemetery adds to the 
chances of exceptional family features; but, on carefully examining the Hayea 
collection with a view to this comparison, I found it was quite possible to select 
an equal number of Esquimaux crania closely corresponding to the Tchuktchi 
type : which indeed presents the most prominent characteristics of the former, 
only less strongly marked. In both the skull is long, high, and pyramidal, and, 
in the Esquimaux especially, the junction of the parietals is frequently in a keel- 
like ridge, which extends into the depressed and narrow frontal bone. 

But the same mode of comparison which confirms the ethnical affinities 
between the Esquimaux and their insular or Asiatic congeners, reveals, in some 
respects, analogies rather than contrast between the dolichocephalic Indian cra- 
nia and those of the hyperborean race. The most characteristic features of the 
latter, as established by such a comparison, belong to the face, including the 
small nasal bones and the prognathous jaw, neither of which pertain to the true 
American Indian. The desired comparison may easily be made between the 
Iroquois or Huron cranium and that of the Esquimaux, from the vertical and 
occipital diagrams furni.^hed in the Crania Americana, (pp. 192, 194, 248.) 
Botn are elongated, pyramidal, and with a tendency towards a conoid, rather 
than a flattened or vertical occipital form; and when placed alongside of the 
most markedly typical Mexican or Peruvian heads, the one differs little less 
widely from these than the other. The contrast between the Huron and Esqui- 
maux, obvious as it is, may be defined as physiognomical rather than cerebral ; 
while some of the elements of calvarial correspondence are striking. The charac- 
teristics of the Esquimaux skull are defined by Dr. Meigs as " large, long, nar- 
row, pyramidal; greatest breadth near the base; sagittal suture prominent and 
keel like, in consequence of the junction of the parietal and two halves of the 
frontal bones; proportion between length of head and height of face as seven to 
five; . — forehead flat and receding; occiput full and salient; face broad and 
lozenge shaped, the greatest breadth being just below the orbits; malar bonea 
broad, high, and prominent, zygomatic arches massive and widely separated ; 
nasal bones flat, narrow, and united at an obtuse angle, sometimes lying in the 
same pUme as the naso-maxillary processes "* But, in reference to the nasal 
development, wherein it difiers so decidedly from the true Indian physiognomy, 
the remarks of Dr J. Barnard Davis are worthy of note. In the Esquimaux 
of the eastern shores of Baffin's bay, lie observes, the nasal bones are scarcely 
broader, though frequently longer than in some Chinese skulls, where they are 
so narrow as to be reduced to two short linear bones. " In those of the opposite, 
or American shores of Baffin's bay, they are very different, presenting a length, 
breadth, and angle of position almost equal to those of European races having 
aquiline noses. "t This slight yet striking anatomical dificrence seems to supply 
a link of considerable value as indicative of a trait of physiognomical character 
in the more southern Esquimaux, tending, if confirmed by further observation, 
like other physical characteristics already noticed, to modify the abrupt transi- 

* Catalovue of Human Crania, A.N.S., 1857, p. 50. 
t Crania JirUunnica, p. 30. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



263 



tion assumed heretofore as clearly defining the line of separation between the 
contrasting Arctic and Red Indian races. In all the arguments based on the 
assumed predominance of one uniform cranial type throughout the whole western 
hemisphere, the Arctic American, oi Esquimaux, has invariably been excluded; 
and he has been regarded either as the exceptional example of an A.siatic intruder 
on the American continent, or as the hyperborean autochthones of the Arctic 
realm, as essentially indigenous there as the reindeer or the polar bear. An 
examination of Arctic crania, and a comparison of them with those of some of 
the most characteristic among the true Indian tribes, seems rather to suggest 
affinities and intermixture; while the same test applied to determine the amount 
of diversity among Indian races shows that they also intermingle very clearly 
defined elements of ethnical diversity. Dt. Latham, after commenting on the 
differences recognizable between the Esquimaux of the Atlantic and the Indiana, 
adds : " It is not so Avith the Eskimos of Russian America and the parts that 
look upon the Pacific. These are so far from being separated by any broad and 
trenchant line of demarkation from the proper Indian, or the so-called Red race, 
that they pass gradually into it; and that in respect to their habits, manner, and 
appearance, equally. So far is this the case that he would be a bold man who 
shoiild venture, in speaking of the southern tribes of Russian America, to say,. 
Here the Eskimo area ends, and here a d fferent area begins."* The diverse 
geographical confoi-mation of the continent, which admits, on its western side, of 
frequent intercourse and consequent opportunities for intermixture of races, 
while, on its eastern side, the Esquimaux is entirely isolated, may account, in 
part, for the difference ; but, in doing so, it also accounts for the amount of uni- 
formity in the physical characteristics of tribes and nations separated by few 
geographical barriers, or well-defined Kmits, throughout the whole continent: 
but among whom, nevertheless, such marked cranial differences are found as the 
following table indicates. The mean of only four Mound crania is given, a» 
they constitute in reality all of the authenticity of which I feel well assured j 
and, as their proportions are affected by artificial changes of form, the true 
characteristics of the ancient Mound-builders must be held as still depending on 
further evidence. The Cave crania, derived from an ancient cave at Steuben- 
ville, Ohio, and from the more celebrated Mammoth cave, Kentucky, are included 
in Table I. 

Table X.— COMPAEATIVE MEAN CRANIAL MEASUPtEMENTS. 



L. D. P. I). F. I>. V. B. I. A. I. L. O. F. A. H. C 



Mound Crania 

Cave Crania 

Peruvian B. C 

Peruvian D. C 

Mexican B. C 

Mexican D. C 

American B. C — 
Auieiican D. C — 

Iroquoi.s 

Algouquiu 

Algonquin-Leuap6 
E.squJmaux 



5.90 
5.78 
r>. G2 

r>. 18 
r).4i 

r>, 4;') 

r>. 47 
r>. 47 

f). .'>8 
r,. .<-,:{ 
5.22 



4.20 
4.51 
4.06 
.3.80 
4.30 
4.31 
4.24 
4.36 
4. 35 
4.43 
4. 37 
4.31 



5. 55 
.5.47 I 
5.18 I 
.5.21 , 
.5.-55 I 
.5.35 i 
5.30 
.5.42 
5.44 
.5.37 ' 
.5.42 
5.40 i 
I 



15.60 
14.85 
14.96 
14. .36 
14.69 
14.20 
14.63 
14.67 
14.65 
14.42 
14.77 
14.48 



4.40 
4.42 
4.12 
4.10 
4.25 
4.12 
4.25 
4.23 
4.24 
4.35 
4.22 
4.18 



14.00 
13. 87 
13.27 
14. 45 
13. 95 
14.17 
13. 85 
14. 62 
14. 62 
14.42 
14.42 
14.82 



19. 88 
19.77 
19.10 
19.71 
19.66 
19.99 
19.44 
20. 29 

20. 49 
20. 44 
20. 30 
20.42 



The data from which the above results have been deduced are derived from 
the measurements of two hundred and eighty-nine skulls, along with the exami- 
nation and comparison of a much larger number. A careful study of Peruvian 



Varieties of Man, p. 291. 



264 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY, 

crania seems to prove tliat botli classes are small, indicating a people of inferioi 
size and stature, and presenting essential differences, even in the brachycephalic 
class, from those of the mounds. Their small vertical diameter is spcjciallj 
noticeable. In this, as well as in other respects, the greater correspondence 
between the jMexican brachycephali and the jMouud crania is suggestive, and 
calculated to increase our desire for the acquisition of a sufficient number ot 
examples of both, whereby to test the evidence of physical correspondence 
between the elder races of Analiuac and the people who have left such remark- 
able evidences of a partially developed civilization in the Mississippi valley,. The 
two extremes are the Peruvian brachycephali and the Esquimaux — 

Length. Breadth. Heifjht. O. F. arch. 

Peruvian 6.3:;: 5.62 5.18 13.27 

Esquimaux 7.28 5.2v 5At 14.8^ 

But between these the range of variations sufficiently illustrates the f illacy of 
the supposed unitorm cranial type affirmed to prevail throughout the whole 
western hemisphere from the Arctic circle to Cape Horn. 

If the data thus selected as examples of the different groups furnish any 
approximation to their relative cranial measurements, it seems scarcely possible 
to evade the conclusion that the ideal American typical head has no existence 
in nature, and that, if a line of separation between the Peruvian, or so-called 
Toltecan head, and other American forms is to be drawn, it cannot be introduced 
as heretofore to cut oft' the Esquimaux, and rank the remainder under varieties 
of one type, but must rather group the hyperborean American cranium in the 
same class with others derived from widely separated regions, extending into 
the tropics and beyond the equator. In reality, however, the results of such 
attempts at a comparative analysis of tin; cranial characteristics ot the Aineri 
can i-aces go far beyond this, and prove that the form of the human skull is just 
as little constant among the different tribes or races of the New World as of the 
Old; and that, so far from any simple subdivision into two oi three groups suffic- 
ing for American craniology, there are abundant traces of a tendency of devel- 
opment into the extremes of brachycephalic and dolichocephalic or kumbeceph- 
alic forms, and again of the intermediate gradations by which the one passes 
into the other. A much larger number of examples would be required to illus- 
trate all the intermediate forms, but sufficient data are fia-nished here to point in 
no unmistakable manner to the conclusion indicated. If crania measuring 
upwards of two inches in excess in the longitudinal over the parietal and verti- 
cal diamciters, or nearly approximating to such relative measurements — without 
further reference here to other variations of occipital conformation — m ly be 
affirmed, without challenge, to be of the same type as others where the longi- 
tudinal, parietal, and vertical diameteis vary only by minute fractional differ- 
ences: then the distinction between the brachycephalic and the dolichocephalic 
type of head is, for all purposes of science, at an eird, and the labors of Blum- 
enbach, Itetzius, Nilsson, and all who have trod in their footsteps, have been 
wasted in pursuit of an idle fancy. If differences of cranial conformation of so 
stron.uly defined a character, as are thus shown to exist between various ancient 
and modern people of America, amount t(^ no more than variations within the 
normal range of the cmnmon type, then «tll the important distinctions between 
the crania of ancient Europe^tn barrows and those of living races amount to 
little, and the m(n-e delicate details, such as those, for example, which have been 
supposed to distinguish the Celtic from the (jrermanic cranium, the ancient Uoman 
Irom the Etruscan or Greek, the Slave from the Magyar or Turk, or the Gothic 
Spaniard from the Basque or Morisco, must be utterly valueless. But the legit- 
imate deduction from such a recognition, alike of extreme diversities of cranial 
form and of many intermediate gradations, characterizing the nations of the 
New World as well as of the Old, is not that cranial formation has no ethnic value, 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 2G5 

but tliat tho truths embodied in rucIi physiological data arc as little to be eliininalcd 
by ignoring or slighting all diversities from the predominant i'orm, and assign- 
ing ir as the sole normal type, as by neglecting the many intermediate gradations, 
and dwelling exclusively on the examples of extreme divergence from any pre- 
vaiUng type. 



PAKT fli. 
DESIGNED AND UNDESIGNED SOURCES OF CHANGE IN CRANIAL FORMS. 

Among the characteristics of the American typical cranium, as defined by 
the author of the Crania Americana, and deduced by others from the evidence 
accumulated in that valuable contribution to physical ethnology, considerable 
importance is attached to the flattened occiput, which was assumed by him to 
be a purely natural feature of the American race. Whde he recognizes the 
elongated type of head pertaining to certain tribes, as the Osages, Missouiis, 
Mandans, and Blackfeet, he adds : "Ev>n in these instances the characteristic 
truncatiire of the occiput is more or less obvious;" and in his latest definition 
of the specialties of the American skull, he remarks: "In fact, the flatness of 
the occipital portion of the cran um will probably be found to characterizes a 
greater or less number of individuals in every existing tribe from Terra del 
I'uego to thi' Canadas." The celebrated Scioto Mound skull has already been 
described, and the artificial origin of its greatly flattened occiput referred to, 
which even Dr. Morton appears to have recognized as surpassing the limits of 
his supposed typical conformation. " Similar forms," he remarks, " are common 
in the Peruvian tombs, and have the occiput, as in this instance, so flattened 
and vertical as to give the idea of artificial compression ; yet this is only an 
exaggeration of the natural form, caused by the pressure of the cradle-board in 
common use among the American nations." My own observations on American 
crania led me, at an early period, to adopt the opinion not only that such ex- 
treme examples of the vertical occiput as are Si'en in the Scioto Mound and the 
Barrie skulls, arc the results of artificial pressure, but, as 1 remarked in \8;37, 
when submitting my views on Dr. Morton's suppo-ed American cranial type, to 
the ethnological section of the American Association tor the Advancement of 
Science, it ,s extremely probable that fu,ther investigation will tend to the 
conrhision that the vertical or flattened occiput instead of being a typical 
characteristic, pertains entirely to the class of artificial modifications of the 
natural cranium familiar to the American ( thnologist, alike in the disclosures of 
ancient graves and in the customs of widely separated living tribt's.* The 
idea thus expressed received further confirmation from noticing the almost 
invariable accompaniment of such traces of artificial modification, with more or 
less inequality in the two sides of the head, in the extremely transtorined 
skulls of the Flathead Indians, and of the Natchez, Peruvians, and other ancient 
nations by whom the same bai-barous practice was encouraged, the extent of 
this deformity is frequently such as to excite surprise thai it could have proved 
com atible with the healthful exercise of any vital functions. But now that 
the general subject of artificial compression of the human cranium begins to 
receive some degree of minute attention from craniologists, it becomes obvious 
that such changes wrought on the natural form of the head are by no nusans 
peculiar to the American cintineut, either in ancient or modern times. The 
Macrocephali were known to Hi])pocrates in the fifth century before the (Jhristiau 
era, as a people who elongated the lieads of their infants by artificial means. 

*Edin. Philosoph. Jourual N. tS., vol. vii, p. ^4. Cauadiuu Journal, vol. ii, p. 40G. 



266 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

Strabo, riiny, and Pomponius Mela refer to various Asiatic localities where the 
same practice of moulding the head into favored abnormal forms was in use in 
their ilay ; and repeated discoveries in modern times in the Crimea, in the 
Austrian valley of the Danube, and even in Swtzerland, of similarly distorted 
crania, show how widely the practice had been followed in ancient times. Th« 
European examples have been generally referred to the Avarian Huns, but it 
afibrds a striking confirmation of the correspondence between the mode of 
practicing this barbarous process in the Old and the New World, that at the 
very time when the attention of Uetzius and other European craniologists was 
specially directed to the subject, an American origin was assigned even to the 
European crania. Dr. Tschudi, guided by his extensive experience as a traveller, 
undertook to prove, in a memoir communicated to Muller's Archivjur /hiatomie, 
that a skull found near Grafenegg, in Austria, and assigned by Professor 
Retzius to the Avars, was in reality an ancient Peruvian relic brought over in 
the sixteenth century, when the empire of Charles V. embraced both Austria 
and Peru in the same vast dominion. But repeated discoveries of similar arti- 
ficially deformed crania, both on European and Asiatic sites, have placed beyond 
doubt that the very same processes of malformation practiced by the Peruvians, 
the Natchez, and by the barbarous tribes of Oregon, were in use among ancient 
Euroj)ean and Asiatic races. But the artificial changes of the human head are 
traceable to a variety of causes, all of which require to be maturely considered 
in order to rightly estimate the significance of national skull forms. These 
causes may be classified thus : 

I. Undesigned changes of form superinduced in infancy by bandaging or 
other custom of head-dress ; by the form of pillow or cradle- board ; and by 
persistent adherence to any unvarying position in suckling and nursing. 

II. Artificial deformation undesignedly resulting from the habitual carrying 
of burdens on the head, or by means of straps or bandages pressing on any 
part of the skull, when such is continued from very early youth. 

III. Artificial configuration designedly resulting from the application of 
mechanical pressure in infancy. 

IV. Deformation resulting from posthumous compression, or any mechanical 
force brought into operation after death. 

To each of those causes I have directed some attention in different memoirs;* 
but I now propose to limit my remarks chiefly to one of the aspects of unde- 
signed artificial compression in its relation to certain European skull forms. 
Th(^ influence of such causes in producing some peculiar features of the brachy- 
cephalic cranium found in ancient British barrows, was first suggested by me, 
in any accessible form, when pointing out the mistake into which Dr. Morton 
had fallen in supposing that the irregularity and unsymmetrical conformation 
observable in many skulls, but especially in those which have been subjected to 
any extreme amount of compression, is peculiar to American crania. The latter 
remark, I then observed, is too wide a generalization. 1 have repeatedly noted 
the like unsymmetrical characteristics in the brachycephalic crania of Scottish 
barrows ; and it has occurred to my mind, on more than one occasion, whether 
such may not furnish an indication of some partial compression, dependent, it 
may be, on the mode of nurture in infancy, having tended, in their case also, if 
not to produce, to exaggerate the short longitudinal diameter, which constitutes 
one of their most remarkable characteristics.t The idea thus expressed was 
founded on observations carried out for some years on the crania of Scottish 
tumuli in relation to the general archaeology of the country, preparatory to the 
embodying of the whole in the " Prehistoric Annals of Scotland^ Some of 

•"• Edin. Philosoph. Journ. N. S., vol. vii, 24 ; xiv, 269. Canadian Journal, vol. ii, 40i6; 
vi, 414 ; viii, 76, 127. Athenffium, Sep. 20th, 1862. Prehistoric Man, vol. ii, 294. 
f Canadian Journal, Nov., 1857. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 267 

the special views derived from the study of ancient Scottish crania, were sub- 
mitted to the ethnological section of the British Association in 1850;* and the 
general facts and deductions in reference to their ethnical significance are 
embraced in one of the sections of the above-named work. The subject con- 
tinued to occupy my attention so long as I remained in Scotland, and I availed 
myself of every opportunity for adding to the rare materials for its illustration. 
While thus engaged my attention was repeatedly drawn to the unsymmetrical 
proportions of ancient brachycephalic skulls, and to their peculiar truncated 
form, accompanied, as in the Mound skull of the Scioto valley, by an abrupt 
flattening of the occiput, which I soon began to suspect was due to artificial 
causes. Since then the facilities derived from repeated examinations of Ameri- 
can collections have familiarized me not only with the extreme varieties of form 
of which the human head is susceptible under the influence of artificial com- 
pression, but also with the less-marked changes undesignedly resulting from 
such seemingly slight causes as the constant pressure of the Indian cradle-board. 
The examination and measurement of several, hundred specimens of American 
crania, as well as of the living head in representatives of various Indian tribes, 
have also satisfied me not only of the existence of dolichocephalic and brachy- 
cephalic heads as tribal or national characteristics, but of the common occurrence 
of the same exaggerated brachycephalic form, accompanied with the vertical 
or obliquely flattened occiput, which had seemed to be characteristic of the 
crania of the Scottish tumuli. There are indeed ethnical differences apparent, 
as in the frontal and malar bones, but so far as the posterior region of the head 
is concerned, both appear to (exhibit the same undesigned deformation resulting 
from the process of nursing still practiced among many Indian tribes. 

The light thus thrown on the habits of the British mother of prehistoric 
times, by skull-forms found in ancient barrows, is replete with interest, from the 
sugges'ions it furnishes of ancient customs hitherto undreamt of. But it has 
also another and higher value to the craniologist, from its thus showing that 
some, at least, of the peculiar forms hitherto accepted as ethnical distinctions, 
may be more correctly traced to causes operating after birth. 

The first example of this peculiar cranial conformation which attracted my 
attention, as possibly traceable to other causes than inherited characteristics, or 
mUural deviations from the typical skull form of an extinct race, occurred on 
the opening of a stone cist at Juniper Green, near Edinburgh, on the 17th of 
May, 1S.31. A slight elevation probably marked the nearly levelled b.irrow 
which had long covered the catacomb and its enclosed memorials of a remote 
pa 4, within sight of the Scottish capital. A shallow grave, formed of unhewn 
slabs of sandstone, enclosed a space measuring three feet eleven inches in hai^-th, 
by two feet one inch in breadth at the head, and one foot eleven inches at foot. 
The joints fitted to each other with sufficient regularity to admit of their being 
closed by a few stone chips inserted at the junction, after which they appeared 
to have been carefully cemented with wet loam or clay. The slab which cov- 
ered the whole projected over the sides, so as effectually to protect the sepul- 
chral chamber from any infiltraaon of earth. It lay in a sandy soil, within 
little more than two feet of the surface ; but it had probably been covered until 
a comparatively recent period by a greater depth of earth, as its site was higher 
than the surrounding surface, and possibly thus marked the traces of the nearly 
Ifvelled tumulus. Slight as this elevation was, it had proved sufficient to pre- 
vc-nt the lodgment of water, and hence the cist was found perfectly free from 
damp. Within this a male skeleton lay on its left side. The arms appeared to 
have been folded over the breast, and the knees drawn up so as to touch the 
elbows. The head had been supported by a flat water-Avorn stone for its pillow ; 
but from this it had fallen to the bottom of the cist, on its being detached by 

^ British Association Keport, 1850, p. 142. 



2G8 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

the decomposition of tlic fleshly ligatures ; and, as is common in crania discov- 
ered under similar circumstances, it had completely decayed at the pai;t in con- 
tact with the ground. A portion of the left side is thus wanting ; but with this 
exception the skull Avas not only nearly perfect when found, but the bones are 
solid and heavy ; and the whole skeleton appeared to me so well preserved as 
to have admitted of articulation. Above the right shoulder, a neat earthen vase 
Lad been placed, probably with food or diiuk. It contained only a little sand 
and black dust Avhen recovered, uninjured, from the spot where it had been de- 
posited by afiectionate hands many centuries before, and is now preserved along 
with the skull in the Scottish Museum of Antiquities. 

As the peculiar forms of certain skulls, such as one described by Dri Thur- 
nam, from an Anglo-Saxon cemetery at Stone, in Du'-kinghamshire,* and another 
from an Indian cemetery at Montreal, in Lower Canada.t as well as those of 
numerous distorted crania, from the Roman site of Uriconium and other ancient 
cemeteries, have been ascribed to posthumous compression : the precise circum- 
stances attendant on the discovery of the Juuiper Green cist are important, from 
the proof they afibrd that the body originally deposited within it, had lain there 
undisturbed and entuxdy unafTected by any superincumbent pressure from the 
day of its interment. Two, if not three, classes of skulls have been recovered 
fiom early British graves. One Avith a predominant longitudinal diameter, in 
the most marked examples difliers so essentially in its elongated and narrow 
forehead, and occiput from the modern dolichocephalic head, hat I was early led 
to assign to it a separate class under the name of kumbecephalic or boat-shaped. | 
Anoiher has the longitudinal diameter little iu excess of the greatest parietal 
breadth. In its general jnoportions, its occipital formation, and even in some 
ot its facial developments, it presents analogies to the Aineiican brachvcephalic 
skull ; though it lacks the characteristic flattened and receding forehead. This 
British bi achy cephalic skull occupies an intermediate place in its relative pro- 
portions among ancient British crania, and is no less str, kingly distinguished 
from the prevailing modern head, whether of Celtic or Saxon aieas, by its short- 
ness, than the other is by its length, when viewed eithei iu proflle or vertically. 
The Anglo-Saxon type of skull appears to be intermediate between those two 
forms, with a more symmetrical oval, such as is of common occurrence in mod- 
ern I'^nglish heads. 

The significance of the skull-forms of ancient British graves has been studied 
■with intelligent zeal in recent years; and the discovery of essentially distinct 
types, suggests the inquiry as to traces of the existence of older races iu Bi itaia 
than the Celtae found in occupation of the islands at the period of Roman inva- 
sion. The result of my own observations on such examples of ancient Biirish 
crania as were accessible to me, before the interruption of my researches in this 
department of craniology, by my removal to Canada, was to impress me with 
the conviction that the evidence pointed to the existence of more than one early 
race; and that traces seemed to be recognizable, suggestive of one characterized 
by great length and narrowness of head, a remarkable prolongation of the occi- 
put, and poor frontal development. To this another appeared to have succeeded 
with a short or brachycephalic head, prominent parietal development, and trun- 
cated occiput. Accordingly, when the questions involved in such researches and 
speculations w-ere brought under the notice of ethnologists iu a papcu- read by 
me before the British Association iu ISoO, I there remarked: "Not the least 
hiteresting of the indicatinns which this course of investigation seems to estab- 
lish iu relation to the primitive races of Scotland, are the evidences of the exist- 
ence of primitive British races prior to the Celta? ; and also the probability of 
these races having succeeded each other in a different order from the primitive 

* Crania Britannica, Dec. I, p. 38. 

tEdm. PLilosoph. Juuinal. N. S XVI, p. 2G9. 

tPrelustoric Amiais of Scotiaud, pp. 161), 177. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 269 

colonists of tlie north of Europe. Meanwhile, however, these data, and the con- 
clusions derived from them, are produced chiefly with a view to induce more 
extended research. A much greater accumulation of evidence is requisite lO 
estahlish any absolute or certain conclusions ; and this can only be obtained by 
a general interest in the inquiry leading to the observation of such, where the 
resea.-clies of the archajologist, or the chance operations of the agriculturist 
afford the desii*cd means."* To suggest the possibility of primitive races of 
men, not of Celtic origin, having been the earlier occupants of Scotland, appeared, 
in 1S50, a sufficiently daring extravagance. But the AntiquUes CcUkjucs et 
AiUedUuriennes of M. li.,uclier de P<-rlhes, had juf-i. issued from the 1 i«inh 
press ; and already, after so brief an interval, we read in familiar phraseology of 
the prehistoric man of the Pfahlbauten of Switzerland and i'rance, or ot the 
Orannoges of Ireland and Scotland, and the Kjokkenmiiddings of Denmark ; 
and are no longer startled even to hear of the Flint-Folk of the pre-glacial 
period, the contemporaries of the Eh phas pr mi genius and the Rhinoceros tirho- 
rivus. In 1851, before this wonderful revolution in opinion had been broeght 
about, my ideas on the prehistoric races of Scotland, and inferentially of Britain, 
were set forth in greater detail ;t but still necessarily accompanied with expres- 
sions of' regret at the inadequate data available for investigations on a subject 
then altogether novel. Since then, however, the labors of intelligent students of 
science have been rewarded by large and valuable additions to the materials 
required for determining the questions dependent on craniological research ; and 
special gratitude is due to Dr. J. Barnard Davis and Dr. Thurnam, who have 
accomplished in their admirable Crania Britannica the same accumulation of 
the requisite data for Britain which Dr. Morton had previously done for America. 

With the materials thus furnished for application to the purposes of the 
ethnologist, the question has naturally been revived as to the true tyjdcal form 
of the Celtic cranium, and the possibility of reconciling the existence of such 
diverse forms as have already been referred to with the assumed aboriginal 
character of the Celtse, and the assignment of all crania of an older date than 
the Roman period to that race. Bes des the Saxon sktill, with its tribal vaiia- 
tions, including, as Dr. J. B. Davis conceives, the peculiar low and broad Ibrm 
to which he has given the name of platycephalic, there are, as already stated, 
two forms, the one as much shorter as the other is longer and higher than the 
average Saxon skull ; both of which, on the theory of a primary Celtic abori- 
gines, must be included among varieties of the same ethnical group. 

If cranial conformation has any significance, it appears to me inconceivable 
th;;t two such extreme forms can pertain to the same race; and the circumstances 
under which the most characteristic examples of the opposite types have been 
found, confirm me in the belief which 1 advocated when the evidence was much 
less conclusive, that the older dolichocephalic or kumbecephalic skull illustrates 
the physical characteristics of a race which preceded the advent of the Celia; in 
Biilain, and gradually disappeared before their aggressions. As, however, the 
opposite opinion is maintained by so iiigh an authority as Dr. J. Barnard Davis, 
the comparison of the following measun ments, illustrative of the three types of 
head, will best exhibit the amount of deviation in opposite directions from the 
intermediate form. No. 1, like the majority of the same class, is derived from 
a megalithic chambered barrow, and has been selected liy Dr. Davis as a char- 
acteristic exnmple of the class to which it belongs ;| though, according to him, 
that is one of aberrant deviation from the typical British form. No. 2, obtained 
from a barrow at Codford, in Wiltshire, has also been selected by Dr. Davis as 

*Iiif/uirij into the Evidence of Primitive Races in Scotland prior to the Celtm. Report of 
Biit. Assoc. J 850, p. 144. 

Ui rrlicBotogy and Prehistoric Annals of Scotland. 

t Proceedings of the uicad. Nat. Sciences, Philadelptiia, 1857, p. 42. 



270 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



one of three typical British crania. It is of the same type as the Juniper Green 
skull, and its strongly marked characteristics are thus defined by him: "Its 
most interesting peculiarities are its small size, and its decidedly brachyccphalic 
conformation, 'i'his latter character, which commonly appertains to the ancient 
Briti?h cranium, and even to that form which we regard as typical, is seldom 
met with expressed in so marked a manner."* No. 3 is a skull from an Anglo- 
Saxon ccmi'tery near Litlington, Sussex, one of two of which Dr. Davis remarks : 
" There is a general indication of good form in these fine capacious skulls, which 
is ajjparent in every aspect. . . On a review of the whole series of Anglo- 
Saxon crania which have come under our notice, we are led to conclude that 
this pleasing oval, rather dolichocephalic form, may best be deserving the epi- 
thet (if typical among them."t AH the three examples are male skulls. The 
measvuemcnts embrace the longitudinal frontal, parietal and occipital diameters, 
with the parietal height and the horizontal circumference: 



1 . U'ey chambered BaiTow skull 

2. Codfoid skull 

3. Litliiiirtou skull 



8.1 
6.8 



4.7 
4.6 
4.7 



5.7 
5.7 
5.3 



5.1 

4.6 



P. II. II. c. 



5.1 

4.7 
4.9 



21.7 

20. 
20.9 



Each of the above examples presents the features of the type to which it 
belongs with more than usual prominence, so that if the mean of a large series 
were tcikcn, the elements of difference between the three Avould be less strongly 
defined. The differences are, however, those on which their separate classifica- 
tion depends ; and they thus illustrate the special points on which any cranio- 
logical comparison for ethnological purposes must be based. Of the three skulls, 
the era and race of one of them (No. 3) are well determined. It is that of a 
Saxon, probably of the seventh or eighth century, of the race of the South 
Saxons, descended from JEWa and his followers, and recovered in a district 
where the permanency of the same ethnic type is illustrated by its predomi- 
nance among the rural population at the present day. Another of the selected 
examples (No. 2) is assumed by Dr. Davis, perhaps on satisfactory grounds, to 
be an ancient British, i. e., Celtic skull. It is, indeed, a difficulty, which has 
still to be satisfactorily expla'ued, how it is that if this brachyccphalic type be 
the true British head-form, no such prevalence of it on modern Celtic areas is to 
he found, as in the case of Saxon Sussex connects the race of its ancient Pagan 
and Christian cemeteries, by means of the characteristic ovoid skull, with the 
Anglo-Saxon population of the present day. The historical race and era with 
which Dr. Davis appears to connect the Barrow-builders of Wiltshire, is thus 
indicated in the Crania Britannica: "Region of the Belgjse, Temp. Ptolemaei, 
A.D. 120." The Belgaj of that era — then apparently comparatively recent in- 
truders, and by some regarded as not Celtic but Germanic — were displaced, if 
not exterminated ; but the uiodern Britons of Wales are undoubted descendants 
of British Celts of Ptolemy's age. Though doubtless mingling Saxon and Nor- 
man with pure British blood, they probably preserve the native British type as 
little modified by foreign admixture as is that of its supplanters in the most 
thoroughly Saxon or Anglish districts of England. It is, therefore, a question 
of some importance how far the extreme brachycephalic proportions of the so- 
called British type may be traceable to other than inherited ethnical character- 
istics; whether, in fact, it is not entirely due to the undesigned flattening of tho 



*Crania Britannica, Dec. ii, pi. 14. 

t Crania Britannica, Pec. iv, pis. 39, 40. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



271 



f>cciput, and lateral expansion of the brain and skull, consequent on the use of 
the cradle- board. 

Meanwhile, turning from this supposed British skull of Tloman times to the 
one derived from Uley chambered barrow, (Xo. 1,) the most ancicmt of the series, 
and assuming their chronological order to be, undisputed, as it appears to be, we 
find no gradation from an abbreviated to an elongated form, but, on the contrary, 
an extreme brachycephalic type interposed between the ovoid dolichocephalic 
Anglo Saxon or Cliristian era and the extreme dolichocephalic or kumhccepha- 
lic one belonging to a period seemingly so remote that Dr. Thurnam, wben 
noting the recurrence of the same type in another chambered barrow at Little- 
ton Drew, Wiltshire, remarked: "It is not necessary to admit the existence of 
any pre-Celtic race, as the skulls described may be those of Gaelic, as distin- 
guished from Cymric, Celts; or the longheaded builders of these long, cham- 
bered, stone barrows, may have been an intrusive people, who entered Britain 
from the southwest. Can they have been some ancient Iberian or Ibero Phoe- 
nician settlers?"* 

By whatever theory the diiTerence is ultimately accounted for, it is manifestly 
one of a nature well calculated to suggest Iberian, Phoanician, Finnic, or any 
other diverse origin for the older race, rather than to admit of the belief of Celtic 
affinities for it, if the brachycephalic be the true British form. The divergence 
from the intermediate form, it will be seen, exceeds that of the extreme varieties 
already referred to among American crania, even when the exceptional Esqui- 
maux mean is included, as in the following comparative proportions : 



I. A. 



Scioto mound skull 

Barrie skull 

Huron mean 

Esquimaux mean . . 



G.50 
G.GO 
7.40 

7.28 



4. .50 
5.20 
4.35 
4.31 



60.0 
64.0 
54.3 
52. 2 



6.20 
5.30 
5.43 
5.46 



16.00 
16.00 
14. 66 
14.48 



4. .50 
4.60 
4. 23 
4.18 



13. 80 
14.40 
14.65 
14.82 



19.80 
20. 70 
20.48 
20.42 



If no artificial element were supposed to affect any of those forms, the Barrie 
skull would naturally be classed with the former in any such comparison ; and 
even w th a full recognition of the artificial influences to which, as has been 
shown, both appear to have been subjected, it is scarcely co.nceivable that any 
amount of artificial deformation could be employed to transform the long, narrow, 
and high E^^quimaux cranium into cither form. The markedly brachycephalic 
proportions of each are traceable in part to the parieto-occipitai flattening ; but 
the symmetrical uniformity which characterizes both proves that they arc only 
modified examples of naturally short and broad crania. But the vertical or 
obliquely flattened occiput, which even Dr. Jtorton recognized as, in its extreme 
manifestations, traceable to artificial compression, is by no means peculiar to the 
New World ; a id the importance of determining whether it is to be regarded as an 
ethnical characterisiic, or merely an artificial result of external influences applied 
designedly or ni the practice of some common usage, will be apparent when 
its prevalence has been recognized. JMeauwhile, the suggestion of Dr. Thur- 
nam, that the long-headed race .of the British isles may possibly be traceable to 
Iberian or Phoenician intruders, invites attention to whatever materials may be 
available for the determination of the skull-forms of those ancient races. 

Among the rarer crania of the Morton collection is one to which a peculiar 
interest attaches, and which may possibly have som(; significance in reference to 
this inquiry. Its history is thus narrated in Dr. Henry S, Patterson's Memoir 



Crania Britannica, Dec. iii, pi. 24, (4.) 



272 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

of Dr. '^foi-tion: During a visit of Mr. Gliddon to Paris, in 1846, he presented a 
copy of die Crania JEi^yptiaca to the celebrated oriental scholar, M. l^'resnel, 
and excited hi^ interest in the labors of its author. Upwards of a year after 
he received, at Philadelphia, a box containing a skull, forwarded from .Naples, 
but without any iufoi'ina' ion relative to it. " It was handed over to Morton," 
says Dr. Patterson, "who at once perceived its dissimilarity to any in his 
possession. It was evidently very old, the animal matter having almost entirely 
disappeared. Day after day would Morton be found absorbed in its conlcm- 
pLition. At last he announced his conclusion. He had never seen a Phoenician 
skull, and he had no idea where this one came from; hut it was what he con- 
ceived a Phoeniciiin skull should be, and it could be no oiJier."'*' Six mouLhs 
aftei wards Mr. Gliddon received, along with other letters and papers forwarded 
to him from Naples, a slip of paper, in the handwriting of M. Fresnel, contain- 
ing the hicitory of the skull, which had been discovered by him during his 
exploiation of an ancient tomb at IMalta. Dr. Meigs refers to this in his cataliigiie 
of the collection, (No. 1352,) as an illustration of the " Avouderful power of dis- 
crunination, the tactus visus, acquired by Dr. Morton in his long and critical 
study of craniology." Such was my own impression on tirst reading it ; but I 
conffss the longer I reflect on it the more am 1 puzzled to guess by what classical 
or other data, or process short of absolute intuition, the ideal type of the Phoeniciaa 
head could be determined. 1 suspect, therefore, if we had the statement of Dr. 
Morton's own words, it would fail short of such an absolute craniological in- 
duction. The following is the sole entry made by him in his catalogue : "Ancient 
Phoenician'? 1 received this highly interesting relic from M. S. Fresuel, the 
distinguished French archaeologist and traveller, with the following memorandum, 
A D. 1847 : — Crane proveuant des caves sepulchrales de Ben-Djemma, dans 
I'lle de Malte. Oe crane parait avoir appartenu a un individu de la race qui, 
dans les temps les plus anciens, occupait la cote septcntrionale de I'Afrique, et 
les lies adjacentes." The sepulchral caves of Ben-Djemma are a series of 
galleries with Literal chambers or catacombs liewn in the lace of the cliffs on 
the southwest side of the island of Malta. Other traces besides the rock-hewn 
tombs indicate the existence of an ancient town there, although no record of its 
name or history survives. M. Frederick Lacroix remarks, in his Malfe ct le 
Goze, " Whoever the inhabitants of this city may have been, it is manifest from 
what remains of their works that they were not strangers to the processes of art. 
The sepulchral caves, amounting to a hundred in number, receive light by means 
of litile apertures, some of which are decorated like a finished doorway. In 
others, time and the action of the humid atmosphere have obliterated all traces 
of such ornaments, and left only the weathered rock. . . The chamlxn's set 
apart for sepulture are excavated at a considerable distance from the entrance, 
in the inmost recesses of the subterranean galleries. The tombs are of admirable 
design and style of art, and the details of their execution exhibit remarkable 
ingenuity and purity of taste. The author of the Voyage Pi toresque de Sicile 
does not hesitate to declare that they surpass in elegance any that he has seen 
executed on the same scale. Wht/t hand has hewn out these gloomy recesses 
in the rock '/ To that we can give no reply. The chronicles of Malta are silent 
on this point. Time has defaced the vestiges which might otherwise have 
helped to the solution of the problem." + 

C)ther and very remarkable remains of antiquity abound in Malta and the 
neigliboring island of Goza, including the cyclopeau ruins styled La tour des 
Gfints, which have also been assigned by some writers to a Phoenician or Punic 
origin, as a temple dedicated to Astarte; and the Tadarnadur Isrira, a mega- 
lithic structure for which a Pehisgic origin is assumed. But in drawing any 
comparison between the chambered galleries of Ben-Djemma and the megalithic 

* Memoir of Samuel G. Morton, p, xl. 
t M.ali6 et It Goze, p. 21. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 273 

chamberetl barrows or cairns of the British Islands, we are at best reasoning 
from the little known to the less known indices of prehistoric races ; between 
which the points in common may amount to no more than those which admit of 
a comparison being draAvn between the Brachycephali of the British Stone- 
Period, and the corresponding physical form and rude arts of American grave- 
mounds. 

Nevertheless the Ben-Djemma skull in the Mortonian collection is not im- 
probably what it has been assumed it to be; and it is in many respects a 
remarkable one. A deep indentation at the nasal suture gives the idea of an 
overhanging forehead, but the superciliary ridges are not prominent, and the 
peculiar character of the frontal bone is most strikingly apparent in the vertical 
view, where it is seen to retreat on either side, almost in a straight line from 
the centre of the glabella to the external angular processes of the frontal bone. 
The contour of the coronal region is described by Dr. Meigs as "a long oval, 
which recalls to mind the kumbecephalic form of Wilson."* It is of more 
importance, perhaps, to note that the remarkable skull recovered by Dr. 
Schmeriug, from the Engis Cavern, on the left bank of the Meuse, buried five 
feet in a breccia, along with the tooth of a rhinoceros and other fossil bones, 
appears to be of the same elongated dolichocephalic type. Its frontal develop- 
ment is long and narrow; and its greatest relative proportion, in length and 
breadth, are 7.7 by 5.25 inches, so that it closely corresponds in those respects 
to the most characteristic British kumbecephalic crania." t 

Whatever be the final conclusion of ethnologists as to the evidence which led 
me to adopt that name to indicate the characteristics of a pre-Celtic British race, 
the necessity appears to be acknowledged for some term to distinguish this form 
from the ordinary dolichocephalic type. The Ben-Djemma skull is narrow through- 
out, with its greatest breadth a little behind the coronal suture, from whence it 
narrows gradually towards front and rear. The lower jaAV is large and massive, 
but with less of the prognathous development than in the superior maxillary. 
The skull is apparently thr.t of a woman. The nose has been prominent; but 
the zygomatic arches are delicate, and the whole face is long, narrow, and 
tapering towards the chin. The parietals meet at an angle, with a bulging of 
the sagittal suture, and a slight but distinctly defined pyramidal form, running 
into the frontal bone. The occiput is full, round, and projecting a little more on 
the left side than the right. The measurements are as follows : 

Longitudinal diameter 7.4 

Parietal diameter 5.1 

Frontal diameter 4 

Vertical diameter 5.3 

Intermeatoid arch 12.3 

Intermastoid arch 15 (?) 

Intermastoid line 4..3(?) 

Occipito-frontal arch 14.2 

Horizontal circumference 20.2 

I have been thus particular in describing this interesting skull, because it 
furnishes some points of comparison with British kumbecephalic crania, bearing 
on the inquiry whether we may not thus recover traces of the Phoenician 
explorers of the Cassiterides in the long-headed builders of the chambered 
barrows. When contrasting the wide and neai-ly virgin area with which Dr. 
Morton had to deal, with that embraced in the scheme of the Crania Britannira, 
I remarked in 1857: — Compared with such a wide field of investigation, the 
little island home of the Saxons may well seem narrow ground for exploration, 

* Catalogue of Human Crania in the Academy of Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 29. 

tLyell's Antiquity of Man, p. 81. 

18 s 



274 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

But to the ethnologist it is not so. There, amid the ruthist traces of primeval 
ai'ts, he seeks, and probably not in vain, for the remains of primitive European 
allophyliai. There it is not improbable that both Phoenicians and early Greek 
navigators have left behind them (evidences of their presence, such as he alone 
cjin discriminate.* The PhoiniciaJis stand, for northern Europe, as the oldest 
of all the ancient civilized nations of the world, to whom its seas, ports, and 
mineral treasures were known. Not unnaturally, therefore, there is a disposition 
to turn to them as a means of explaining all mysteries. Professor N.lsson, in 
the new edition of his tilcandincuHska Nordens Urinvdnare, ascribes to a sup- 
posed I'hocnician occu])ation of tlu; North the whole of the characteristic works 
of art of its Bronze period; and the temptation is still stronger for the British 
archaeologist and craniologist to resort to a similar theory. The intercourse be- 
tween Pliffiiiicia and the ancient Cassiterid(^s, by indirect, if not by direct, 
ti'affic, is undisputed. But the evidence of any Phoenician settlements in Britain 
rests on infert'uces from very vague allusions; and Sir George Cornwall Lewis 
has done his best to invalidate them. Summing up the results of his inquiry aa 
to the nature of the classical evidence in favor of the Phoenicians having 
directly traded with Britain for its mineral wealth, and especially its tin, Ikj 
remarks : " On the whole, the accounts preserved by the Greek and Latin 
writers lead to the inference that the tin supplied in early times to the nations 
in the east of the IMediterranean came by the overland route across Gaul, and 
tliat the Phoenician ships brought it from the mouth of the llhonc, without 
sailing as far as Britain." t British antiquaries will not willingly adopt such an 
ojtinion; but it serves at any rate to indicate how slight is the evidence on 
which to base any theory of a I'hocniciau origin for the ancient long-headed 
kumbccephali of tlu; British Isles. Moreover, such a theory, in so far as it has 
any craniological basis, rests only on the recognition of the general analogy of 
form between certain British crania and tbe supposed Punic one brought from 
Malta; Avhile it derives no confirmation from the discovery of works of art in 
i\\Q. chambered barrows, or other sepulchres of the long-headed British race, 
such as can be ascribed to a Phoenician origin, or indicate any trace of Punic 
influence. 

But tluu-e is another and more important aspect of the question. Before wo 
can abandon ourselves to the temptations which the Punic theory offers, it has 
to be borne in remembrance that it is still disputed with reference to this class 
of British dolichocephalic crania. Ai'c they examples of an essen'itally distinct 
type, preserving evidence of the characteristics of a different race, or arc they 
mere exceptional aberrant deviations from the supposed brachycephalic Celtic 
or British type? Much stress is laid on the fact that the two forms of skull 
have occasionally been recovered from the same barrow; from which it may bo 
inferred that the two races to which I conceive them to have belonged were, for 
a more or less limited period, contemporaneous. ]\Iore than this I cannot regard 
as a legitimate induction from such premises, in relation to crania of such 
extremely diverse types. But this amounts to little, for the same is undoubtedly 
true of th(,' ancient 13ritish and the modern Anglo-Saxon race; and the discovery 
of Celtic and Saxon skulls in a common barrow or tumulus of the 6th century is 
no proof that the latter race was not preceded by many centuries in the occupa- 
tion of tlu! country by the Britons, among whom they then mingled as conquerors 
and supplauters. 

But the elongated skulls of the Uley barrow type are no rare and exceptional 
forms. They have been most frequently found in tombs of a peculiar charac- 
ter, designated chambered barrows, from the galleries and catacombs of large 
unhewn stones which they contain. To these tombs archaeologists are unani- 

* Canadian Journal, vol. ii, p. 445. 

f Historical Survey of tfio A-stronomy of tho Ancients, p. 455. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 275 

mous in assigning great antiquity. The late Mr. Thomas Bateman, of Lomber- 
dalc House, Derbyshire, soon after the publication of my first views relative to 
the pre-Celtic era of the long-headed race, or kumbecephali of Scotland, stated 
that in the Derbyshire long barrows, explored by him, "the boat-shaned skull 
had unifoi-mly been found, rarely accompanied by any iustrument, but, in one or 
two cases, with aiTOW-points of flint."* To this opinion subser|uent resean-hes, 
extending through successive years to 1858, appeared to him to lend conrfirraa 
tion; and, in his "Ten Years' Diggings in Celtic and Saxon Grave Hills," pub- 
lished in 1861, much additional evidence is producr-d. In describing some 
remarkable disclosures in Longlow barrow, he remarks: "This is the first oppor- 
tunity we have had of exploring an undisturbed cist in a chambered cairn of 
tliis peculiar structure. It is, on this account, a discovery of unusual interest, 
and, when compared with the results of previous or subsefjuent excavations in 
similar grave-hills, yields to none in importance. The mound, composed of 
stone, inclosing a chamber or cist formed of immense slabs of stone, occasionally 
double or galleried, indicates, in this part of the countiy at least, a period whf^n 
the use of metal was unknown, the sole material for the spear and aiTOw being flint, 
which is often carefully chipped into leaf-shaped weapons of great beauty. The 
interments within these cists have in every case been numerous, and apparently 
long continued. They are marked by a strongly defined type of skull, styled 
by Dr. Wilson kumbe-kephalic, or boat-shaped, the more obvious features being 
excessive elongation, flattening of the parietal bones, and squareness of the base, 
producing, when viewed from l^ehind, a laterally compressed appearance, which 
is enhanced by the sagittal suture being sometimes elevated into a ridge. The 
adult male skull found in the centre of the Longlow cist has been selected to 
appear in thr; Crania Brifannica as a typical example of this form. The crania 
of a female and of a girl about seven years old, from the same cist, exhibit the 
same form in a remarkable degree, as do the others which are more imperfect. "t 
In the majority of cases the like imperfection has prevented more than the deduc- 
tion of such general correspondence. Nevertheless, the number already obtained 
in a sufficiently perfect state to admit of detailed measurement is remarkable, 
when their great age and the circumstances of their recovery arc fully considered. 
Of this the following enumeration will aff"ord satisfictory proof. Only two perfect 
crania from the chambered tumulus of Uley, in Gloucestershire, of which the 
proportions of one are cited above, have been preserved. But, in the later 
search of Mr. Freeman and Dr. Thurnam, in 1854, the fragments of eight ov 
nine other skulls Avere recovered, and of these the latter remarks : " The frag- 
ments are interesting, as proving that the characters observed in the more perfect 
ci-ania were common to the individuals interred in this tumulus. Three or four 
calvaria are sufficiently complete to show that in them likewise the length of the 
skulls had been great in proportion to the breadth. "| Again, in the megalithic 
tumulus of Littleton Drew, North Wilts, at least twenty-six skeletons appear to 
have been found, from several of which imperfect crania were i-ecovered, and of 
those Dr. Thurnam remarks: "Eight or nine crania were sufficiently perfect for 
comparison. With one (exception, in which a lengthened oval form is not marked, 
they are of the dolichocephalic class."§ So also the four nearly perfect skulls 
from West Kennet are described as "more or less of th(! lengthened oval form, 
with the occiput expanded and projecting, and pi-esenting a strong contrast to 
skulls from the circular barrows of Wilts and Dorset. "|| To these may be 
added those of Stoney Littleton, Somersetshire, first pointed out by Sir II. G* 
Hoare;^] and examples from barrows in Derby, Stafford, and Yorkshire, dc- 

* Journal of AnhiEol. Association, Vol. VII, p. 211. 

tTen Years' Diggings in Celtic and Saxon Grave Hills, p. 95. 

I ArckcBul. Journal, vol. xi. p. ','>\\\. Crania Britannica, Dec. I, pi. 5, (5.) 

^ Crania Britannica, Dec. Ill, pi. 2-1, (;'.) 

\\Jbid, Doc. V, pi. r)(», (4.) 
V ArcluBologia, vol. xix, p. 47. 



276 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

scribed by Mr. Thomas Bateman in bis " Ten Years' Diggings in Celtic and Saxon 
Grrave Hills;" including tbose from Bolebill, Longlow, and Ringbam Low, 
Derbysbire ; from tbe galleries of tbe tumulus on Five Wells Hill ; and from 
tbe Yorkshire barrow, near Heslerton-on-tbe-Wolds. Several of the above con- 
tained a number of skulls, and, of tbe last, in which fifteen human skeletons lay 
heaped together, Mr. Bateman remarks: "The crania that have been preserved 
are all more or less mutilated, but about six remain sufficiently entire to indicate 
the prevailing conformation to be of tbe long or kumbecephalic type of Dr. 
Wilson."* The crania occurring in graves of this class, mentioned by Mr. Bate- 
man alone, exceed fifty in number, of which tbe majority are either of the elon- 
gated type or too imperfect to be determined. The others include between thirty 
and forty well-determined examples, besides a greater number in too imperfect a 
state to supply more than indications of their correspondence to the same char- 
acteristic form. Alongside of some of these are also found brachycephalic cra- 
nia; but, in the most ancient barrows, the elongated skull appears to be the predom- 
inant, and, in some cases, the sole type ; and of the examples found in Scotland, 
several have been recovered from peat bogs, or others under circumstances more 
definitely marking their great antiquity. 

The variations of cranial form are thus, it appears, no gradual transition, or 
partial modification, but an abrupt change from an extreme dolichocephalic to an 
extreme brachycephalic type; which, on the intrusion of the new and essentially 
distinct Anglo-Saxon race, gives place once more to a dolichocephalic form of 
medium proportions. Tbe three forms may be represented, reduced to an abstract 
ideal of their essential diversities, by means of the following diagrams : No. 1, 
the kumbecephalic head of tbe chambered barrows; No. 2, the dolichocephalic, 
or supposed British type; and No. 3, the ovoid Anglo-Saxon head, still predom- 
inant. 

Fiff. 5. 




No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. 

Leaving, meanwhile, the consideration of the question of distinct races indi- 
cated by such evidence, it will be well to determine first if such variations of 
skull-form can be traced to oiber than a transmitted ethnical source. One of 
these, No. 2, presents many unmistakeable analogies to the most common Amer- 
ican form ; in so much so that, before I was familiar with the latter, otherwise 
than through the pages of the Crania Americana, I selected two of the most 
characteristic brachycephalic crania figured and described there, as the fittest for 
illustrating the typical characteristics of the Scottish skulls of short longitudinal 
diameter.t Of tbe same characteristic brachycephalic form the Barrie skull, 
(Fig. 6.) is a well defined example. Found in an Indian cemetery, on a conti- 
nent where the craniologist is familiar with examples of the human head flat- 
tened and contorted into tbe extremest abnormal shapes, and where the influence 
of the Indian cradle-board in increasing the flattened occiput had long since been 

* Ten Ycars^ Diggings in Celtic and Saxon Grave Hills, p. 230. 
t Prehistoric Aunals of Scotland, p. 167. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



277 



pointed out by Dr. Morton : the peculiar contour of the Barrio skull excited no 
more notice than the recognition of it as one well-known variety of American 
cranial forms. But, when almost precisely the same form is found in British 
graves, it is suggestive of ancient customs hitherto undreamt of, on which the 
familiar source of corresponding American examples is calculated to throw a 
novel light. 





Fig. 6. Fig. 7. 

Of this form the Juniper Green skull, previously referred to as discovered ia 
the immediate vicinity of Edinburg, is a striking example. It has been 
engraved the full size in the Crania Britannica, and, as will be seen, it presents 
in profile *che square and compact proportions characteristic of British brachy- 
cephalic crania. It also exhibits, in the vertical outline, the truncated wedge 
form of the type indicated in Fig. 5, No. 2. In the most strongly marked exam- 
ples of this form, the vertical or flattened occiput is a prominent feature, accom- 
panied generally with great parietal breadth, from which it abruptly narrows at 
the occiput. The proportions of tiiis class of crania were already familiar to me 
before the discovery of the Juniper Green example, but it had not before 
occurred to me to ascribe any of their features to other than natural causes. But 
the circumstances attending its exhumation gave peculiar interest to whatever 
was characteristic in the skull and its accompanying relics, handled for the first 
time as evidences of the race and age of the freshly opened cist, discovered 
almost within sight of the Scottish capital, and yet pertaining to prehistoric 
times. This interesting skull was deposited in the Museum of the Scottish Anti- 
quaries, along with the urn which had lain beside it in the rude cist, and I 
accompanied its presentation with the first expression of my suspicion — for it 
scarcely then amounted to more — that the flattened occiput was due to some arti- 
ficial compression, by means of which the abbreviated form so common in crania 
of the Scottish tumuli had been exaggerated if not entirely produced. 

Another skull in the same collection, found under somewhat similar circum- 
stances in a cist at Lcsmurdie, Banffshire, has the vertical occiput accompanied 
by an unusual parietal expansion and want of height, suggestive of the idea of 
a combined coronal and occipital compression.* A third Scottish skull, pro- 
cured from one of a group of cists near Kinaldie, Aberdeenshire, also exhibits 
the posterior vertical flattening. But a more striking example than any of those 
appears in the one from Codtord, South Wiltshire, selected here to illustrate this 
type. Dr. Davis remarks, in his description of it: "The zygomatic arches are 



'' Vide Crania Britannica, Dec. IJ plate 16. 



278 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



short, a character wliicli appertains to tlie entire calvarium, but is most concen- 
irated in the parietaLs, to wliich the abn:ptly ascending portion of the occipital 
lends its influence. The widest part of the calvarium is about an inch behind, 
and as much above the auditory foramen, and, when we view it in front, we per- 
ceive it gradually to expand from the outer angular process of the frontal to the 
point now indicated." The entire parieto-occipital region presents in profile an 
abrupt vertical line ; but, when viewed vertically, it tapers considerably more 
towards the occiput than is usual in crania of the same class. 





Yls. S. 



Fig. 9. 



A comparison of this skull, recovered from an ancient British grave, with the 
one obtained in an Indian ossuary in Barric, in Upper Canada, shows the squarer 
form of the British skull, when seen in profile, dependent in part on the more 
elevated and well arched frontal bone But, in the vertical view, the Indian 
skull shows its extreme brachycephalic character ; being at once shorter and 
broader than the British one, though the latter is one of the most strongly 
marked of its class. The vertical character of the occiput is also strikingly dis 
played. In other examples the flattening chiefly afiects the parietal bones 
extending in an oblique line towards the coronal suture. 

The origin of both, as artificial forms superinduced on a naturally short anc^ 
broad type of skull, I feel no hesitation in believing to be traceable to the same 
kind of rigid cradle-board as is in constant use among many of the Indian tribes 
of America, and which produces precisely similar results. Its mode of opera- 
tion, in eff"ecting the various forms of oblique and vertical occiputs, will be hesi 
considered when describing some of the phenomena of compressed Indian 
crania ; but another feature of the Juniper Green skull, which is even more ob- 
vious in that from Lesmurdie, in the same collection, is an irregularity amounting 
to a marked inequality in the development of the two sides. This occurs in 
skulls which have been altered by posthumous compression ; but the recovery 
of both the examples referred to from stone cists precludes the idea of their 
having be(?n affected by the latter cause; and since I was first led to suspect 
the modification of the occiput, and the exaggeration of the characteristic pro- 
portions of British brachycephalic crania by artificial means, familiarity with 
those of the Flathead Indians, as well as other ancient and modern artificially 
distorted American crania, has led me to recognize in them the constant occur- 
rence of the same unsymmetrical inequality in opposite sides of the head. 

The inequality in the development of the opposite sides of the above skulls 
belongs to the same class of deformations as the well-known distortions produced 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 279 

on many American crania, Loth by tlie undpsignerl action of the cradle-board, 
and by proti'acted compression purposely applied with a view t6 chnngi:; the 
form, merits the careful attention of craniologists. The normal humin head 
may be assumed to present a perfect correspondence in its two licmisphores ; 
but very slight investigation will sxiffice to convince the observer that few living 
examples satisfy the requirements of such a theoretical standard. Not only is 
inequality in the two sides frequent, but a perfectly symmetrical head is the 
exception rather than the rule. The plastic condition of the ci-anial bones in 
infancy, which admits of all the strange malformations" of ancient Macrocephali 
and modern Flatheads, also renders the infant head liable to many undesigned' 
changes. From minute personal examination I have satisfied myself of the 
repeated occurrence of inequality in. the two sides of the head, arising from the 
mother being able to suckle her child only at one breast, so that the head was 
subjected to a slight but constantly renewed pressure in the same direction. It 
is surprising, indeed, to how great an extent such nnsymmetrical irregularity is 
found to jn-evail, when once the attention has been drawn to it. The only ex- 
ample of the Greek head possessed by Dr. Morton was a cast presented to him 
by Dr. Retzius, and which, from its selection by the distinguished Swedish 
craniologist for such a purpose, might reasonably be assumed to illustrate the 
Greek type. It is accordingly described by Dr. J. Aitkcn Meigs, in his " Cra- 
nial Characteristics of the Race of Man," as very much resembling that of 
Constantine Demeti-iades, a Greek native of Corfu, and long a teacher of the 
modern Greek language at Oxford, as engraved in Dr. Pr:<;hard's Researches. 
Its cranial characteristics are thus defined in the Catalogue of the Mortonian 
Collection, (No. 1354.) "The calvarial region is well developed, the frontal 
line expansive and prominent, the facial line departs but slightly from the per- 
pendicular." On recently visiting Philadelphia for the purpose of renewed 
examination of its valuable collections, I was surprised to find this head — instead 
of being either oval, or, as Blumenback describes the example selected by him, 
sub-globular — presenting the truncated form, with extreme breadth at the parietal 
protuberances, and then abruptly passing to a flattened occiput. It measures 
6.5 longitudinal diameter; 5.7 parietal diameter; and 19.2 horizontal circumfer- 
ence. But the most noticeable feature is the great inequality of the two sides. 
The right side is less tumid than the left, while it projects more to the rear, and 
the whole is fully as nnsymmetrical as many American crania. Were it not 
that this feature appears to have wholly escaped Dr. Morton's attention, as he 
merely enters it in his catalogue as a " cast of the skull of a young Greek : Prof. 
Eetzius," I should be tempted to suppose it had been purposely sent to him to 
illustrate the phenomena of nnsymmetrical development, and of the influence of 
undesigned artificial causes on other crania besides those of the New World. 

The strongly marked deformation of many flattened Indian skulls so clearly 
separates them as a class from all others, including those modified by partial or 
undesigned compression, as in the British examples referred to, that the very 
familiarity with the former is calculated to lead the American craniologist to 
overlook the artificial source of slighter changes. Nevertheless, Dr. Morton 
was not unobservant of such indications of the frequent dissimilarity between 
opposite sides of the skull, nor did he entertain any doubt as to its cause when 
occurring as the accompaniment of other artificial changes, though he entirely 
overlooked its more general prevalence. When first noticing the probable origin 
of the flattened occiput of certain British skulls, I drew attention to the fact that 
he had already recognized undesigned artificial compression as one source of 
abnormal cranial conformation, and that he accompanied its demonstration with a 
reference to the predominant nnsymmetrical form in all such skulls. " This irregu- 
larity," he observes, "chieiiy consists in the greater projection of the occiput to one 
Bide than the other," and " is not to be attributed to the intentional application 
of mechanical force." Such want of uniformity in the two sides of the head is 



280 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

much more olrongly marked in the Fluthead t<kullt<, which luivo boon pubjoctod 
to groat comf/ro^siou. It is cU-arly traeoaliU' to tho ditfioulty of subjecting the 
living and growing head to a perlVctly unit'orui and e(|uabk> pressure, and to the 
cerebral mass tbrcuig the skull to expand with it in tho. direction of least resist- 
ance. Hence the unsymnn'tncal form accompanying the vt^rtical occiput in the 
Losmnrdie and Juniper CJreon skulls, and, as 1 conceive, also in the (heek skull 
of Kctzius. The study of the latter skull-form has tended to confirm my belief 
that the extreme abbreviated proportions of many naturally brachycophalic 
cnmia are due to artificial cau.NOs. Wherever a \ery noticeable inequality exists 
between the two sides of a skull, it mav be ascribed with much probability to 
the indirect results of designed or accidental compression in infancy; and by its 
frequent occurrence in any uniform aspect, may, quite as much as the tlattoued 
occiput, furnish a clue to customs or modes of nurture among the people to whom 
it pertains. 

But besides tlu^ praotices refeiTod to, many minor causes tend to produce 
peculiar forms and irregularity of development in the human head. Among 
those, 1 have become familiar with a number of cases, whore, owing to the 
inability of the motln'r to suckle her child at one breast, the constant pi-essure 
in one direction which this led to has produced a marked flattening on the cor- 
responding side of the child's head, with tumid (expansion on the other. The 
mere practice of the nurse constantly carrying the child on one arm, or syste- 
matically laying it to sleep on one side, must have a tendency to produce similar 
results ; tor the bones of the infant's head during the first year are exceedingly 
soft and pliable, and, as the processes pursued by the Flathead Indians show, 
may be moulded into almost any form by moderate pressure. The normal 
human head may be assumed to present a perfect correspondence in its two 
hemispheres; but very slight investigation will sufiice to convince the observer 
that few living examples satisfy the requirements of such a th(!oretical .standard. 
Not only is inequality in the two sides of fri'quent occurrence, but a perfectly 
symmetrical head is the exception rather than tho rule. The plastic condition 
of the cranial bones in infancy also renders the infant head liable to many un- 
designed changes of form. The obstetric practitioner is also familiar with the 
extreme d(^vi;itions from the normal or congenital form of head produced at birth, 
where instruments have to be iised; but which, from the plastic condition 
of the bones, speedily disajipear, or are greatly modified by the growth of the 
brain. 

In connexion with this branch of the subject the following observations of Sir 
ilobert H. Schomburgk on the Mao})ityans, or Frog Indians, of British Guiana, 
are Avell w^orthy of consideration. They are the remnant of a nearly extinct 
tribe. Of their cranial formation he remarks : ''The flatness of the head, and 
consequently the long face and short circumference, is peculiar to the tribe. I 
have not been able to learn, upon the most minute inquiries, that the form is 
given to the head by artificial means. The occiput of the men is high, and 
almost perpendicular above the front; the frontal bone is small with I'ogard to 
extent, and in no com|)arison to tho face below the eyes; the cheek bones are 
harsh ami prominent ; but the most remarkable part of the head is the great 
extent between ear and ear, if measuri'd from the upper part of that organ, and 
the line continued above the eyebrows to the commencement of the other ear. 
It surpasses the measurement of other Indians generally by an inch or two." 
Notwithstanding tho inability of this intelligent and observant traveller to recover 
any traces of araficial causes influencing so remarkable a form of head, we might 
still be tempted to reier it to a source so familiar to the American crauiologist. 
But three days after his arrival at the settlement, one of the women, a i^Iaopi- 
tyan, but the wife of a Taruma — a neighboring tribe characterized by an un- 
usually small and differently formed head — was delivered of a male child. Sir 
Robert Schomburgk states : " The Indians invited me to see the infant, and 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 281 

accordmj2:ly, provided with pome suitable prer^ents, I went. The newborn child 
had all the characterictics of the mother's tribe. It was not quite an hour old 
when I saw it, and the flatn(;ss of its head as compared with the heads of other 
tribes, was very remarkable."* Such a narrative, resting as it does on unques- 
tionabh? authority, shows the danger of error in rcfc-rring all seemingly abnormal 
cranial forms to artificial causes, and might almost tempt the theorist to recur to 
the idea entertained by Hippocrates, relative to the Macrocephali of the Crimea, 
that long heads ultimately became so natural among them that the favorite form 
was perpetuated by ordinary generation. To have rendered the observations 
complete, however, it would have been desirable to have had a further report on 
the shipe of the infant's head some time after birth, so as to determine if it were 
entirely due to the inherited typical head-form of the mother's tribe, and not to 
an unusual amount of compression incident to the circumstances of its birth. 

When the pressure is not, as in the processes operating at birth, temporary, 
but continuous or repeatedly applied in the same direction, at brief intervals, as 
in nursing entirely at one breast, a want of uniformity is certain to result. The 
dissimilarity in the two sides of the head is strongly marked in Flathead skulls 
which have been subjected to great compression. This is clearly trrceable to the 
difficulty of subjecting the living and growing head to a perfectly uniform and 
equable pressure, and to the cerebral mass forcing the skull to expand with it 
in the direction of least resistance. Ileuce the unsymmetrical form accompany- 
ing the vertical occiput in the Lesmurdie and Juniper Green skulls. Wherever 
therefore a very noticeable inequality exists between the two sides of a skull, 
it may be traced with much probability to designed or accidental compression in 
infancy, and by its frequent occurrence in any uniform aspect, may, quite as 
much as the flattened occiput, furnish a clue to customs or modes of nurture 
among the people to whom it pertains. 

Irregular head-forms are so much concealed by the hair and head-dress that 
It is only in very marked cases they attract the attention of ordinary observers. 
But, as I have shown in former publications on this subject, t they are familiar 
to hat-makers, and frequently include extremely unsymmetrical developments 
and great inequality in opposite sides of the head. A modern skull in the 
collection of Dr. Struthers, of Edinburg, exhibits an interesting combination 
of the proportions of the ancient brachycephalic type, with unsymmetrical con- 
formation. It measures 7.5 longitudinal diameter, 6.5 parietal diameter, 21.4 
horizontal circumference, and its greatest breadth is so near the occiput that the 
truncated form observable in the vertical view of many ancient British crania is 
produced in its most marked character by the abrupt flattening immediately 
behind the parietal protuberances, accompanied with inequality in the two sides 
of the head. It Avas obtained from a grave-digger in Dundee, who stated it tji 
be that of a middle-aged female whom he had known during life. There was 
nothiijg particular about her mental development. 

The novel Ibrms thus occurring in modern heads, though chiefly traceable, as 
I believe, to artificial causes, are not the result of design. But the same is true 
of the prevalent vertical and obliquely flattened occiput of many ancient and 
modern American crania, as well as of the Bi'itish brachycephalic class already 
described. Nor are such changes of the natural form necessarily limited to 
skulls of short longitudinal diameter, in which this typical characteristic is 
exaggerated by the pressure of the cradle-board in infancy. Now that this 
source of modification begins to receive general recognition among craniologists, 
its influence is assumed as a probable source of the most diverse aberrant forms. 
Dr. Thuruam, when referring to two skulls of diff<n-ent shapes, recovered from 
the same group of British barrows, of "a somewhat late though pre-Roman 

* Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, vol. xvi, pp. 53, 57. 
j- Prehistoric Man, vol. ii, p. 312 ; Canadian Journal, vol. vil, 414. 



282 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

period," on Roundway liill, North Wiltslairc, thus indicates their contrasting 
characteristics, and suggests the probable source of such divergence from thy 
supposed British type : " The general form of the cranium (pi. 43) differs greatly 
from that from the adjoining barrow, (pi. 42.) That approaches an aeroceph- 
alic, this a platycephalic form ; that is eminently brachycephalic, this more 
nearly of a dolichocephalic character. As the eye at once detects, the difference 
is much greater than would be inferred from a mere comparison of the measure- 
ments. The respective peculiarities of form in the two skulls may possibly be 
explained by supposing that both have been subject to artificial deformation, 
though of a different kind — the one appearing to have been flattened on tlie 
occiput, the other showing a depression immediately behind the coronal suture, 
over the parietal bones, which seems to indicate that this part of the skull was 
subject to some habitual pressure and constriction, perhaps from the use of a 
bandage or ligature tightly bound across the head and tied under the chin, such 
as to this day is employed in certain parts of the west of France, producing 
that form of distortion named, by Dr. Gosse, the sincipital, or tctc b'dobec."* 

The gradual recognition of this secondary source of undesigned artificial 
changes in the form of the skull may be traced through various works, from 
the vague perception of its occasional influence on the occipital form of American 
crania, indicated Ijy Dr. Morton, to the full appreciation of its varied effects in 
the production of the most diverse exaggerations of normal or abnormal shapes, 
in the later decades of the Crania Britannica. Dr. J. B. Davis devotes a 
chapter in the first decade to the subject of "Distortions of the human skull," 
in which he minutely discusses the influence of artificial causes in modifying and 
transforming its natural shape in a wonderful and frequently very fantastijc 
manner. But the only class of changes which attracts his attention, in addition 
to those expressly resulting from design, are the examples of the fourth class, 
where the deformation is clearly traceable to posthumous compression. But 
during the progress of the work the attention of various observers was directed 
to the secondary sources of change of form, and especially to such as may be 
ascribed to the use of the cradle-board, or some corresponding nursing usage. 
In the fifth decade of the Crania Brita?mica accordingly may be traced very 
clearly the influence of the full recognition of such causes in modifying the 
views of its joint authors as to the significance of certain peculiar skull-forms. 
An extremely brachycephalic skull of a youth, obtained from a barrow on 
Ballard DoAvn, Isle of Piirbeck, is described as unsymmetrical, and as affording 
" tolerably clear evidence that this form, if not always produced, was at least 
liable to be exaggerated by an artificial flattening of the occiput, such as is 
practiced by many American and Polynesian tribes. "t In the same decade 
another skull of the type, most dissimilar to this, is described and illustrated. 
It was recovered in fragments from the remarkable chambered barrow at West 
Kennet, Wiltshire ; and its most characteristic features are thus defined by Dr. 
Thurnam : " It is decidedly dolichocephalic, narrow, and very flat at the sides, 
and realizes more nearly than any we have yet had to figure the kumbecephalic 
or boat-shaped form described by Dr. D. Wilson. The frontal region is narrow, 
moderately arched, and elevated at the vertex, but slopes away on each side. 
The parietal region is long, and marked by a prominent ridge or carina in the 
line of the sagittal suture, which is far advanced towards obliteration, whilst 
the other sutures are quite as perfect as usual. The occiput is full and promi- 
nent ; the supra-occipital ridges only moderately marked. There is a deep 
digastric groove, and a slight parocipital process on each side. The extern.'d 
auditory openings are somewhat behind the middle of the skull, and very much 
behind a vertical line drawn from the junction of the coronal and sagittal 

-Crania Britannica, Dec. v, pi. 43. 
I Crania Britannica, Dec. v, pi. 45. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 283 

sutures." Its extreme length and breadth are 1 Si and 5.1, and an inequality in 
the development of the two sides is obvious in the vertical view. As the 
brachycephalic skull recalls certain American and Polynesian forms, so such 
examples of the opposite type suggest the narrow {\nd elongated skulls of the 
•Australians and Esquimaux ; and he thus proceeds : " The Ballard Down skull 
bears marks of artificial flattening of the occiput ; this calls to mind the artificial 
lateral flattening of the skull characteristic of the ancient people called Macro- 
cephali, or long heads, of Avhom Hippocrates tells las that ' while the head of 
the child is still tender, they fashion it with their hands, and constrain it to 
assume a lengthened shape by applying bandages and other suitable contrivances, 
whereby the spherical form of the head is destroyed, and it is made to increase 
iu length.' This mode of distortion is called by Dr. Gosse the temporo-parietal 
or ' ttte aplaticsufles cotes' It appears to have been practiced by various 
people, both of the ancient and modern world, and in Europe as well as the 
east. The so-called Moors, or Arabs of North Africa, aff'ected this form of 
skull ; and even in modern times the women of Belgium and Hamburg are both 
described as compressing the heads of their infants into an elongate form. Our 
own observations lead at least to a presumption that this form of artificial dis- 
tortion may have been practiced by certain primeval British tribes, particularly 
those who buried their distinguished dead in long chambered tumuli." 

In connexion with this class of head-forms, as the result of comjiression. Dr. 
Thurnam draws attention to the obliteration of the sagittal suture in the elongated 
skull. I have noted this iu many Flathead crania, and shall recur to the subject 
in referring to those in .the Washington and Philadelphia collections. If the 
artificial forms result from compression, the flattened occiput and artificially 
abbreviated skull should show a tendency to ossification and obliteration of the 
coronal and the lambdoidal sutures ; while in the elongated skull the sagittal 
suture will be the one aftected, as is the case in one figured and described by 
IJiumenbach, under the name of "Asiatic Macrocephali." But in all 
cases of an artificial change of form, the natural proportions necessarily 
exercise some influence on the result; and Dr. Thurnam, accordingly, 
when referring to the obliteration of the sagittal suture as a result of the 
artificial elongation of the West Kennet skull, expresses his belief that this 
" has been produced by pressure or manipulations of the sides of the head 
in infancy, by which it was sought to favor the development of a lengthened 
form of skull ; to which, however, there was probably, in the present instance, 
at least, a natural and inherent tendency." It is perhaps worthy of note here, 
that a long narrow head has been observed as one of the characteristic features 
of Berber tribes of North Africa. Mr. J. Homer Dixon, who resided for some 
time at Algiers, and had repeated opportunities of visiting and closely observing 
the neighboring tribes, describes them to me as distinguished by their prominent, 
arched nose, with wide nostrils ; large mouth but thin lips, and an uuusual length 
of head. The constancy of the long head-form particularly struck him, but I 
could not learn from him of any nursing practice calculated to originate or 
increase such a development. 

From the various authorities and illustrative examples referred to, it is obvious 
that a class of variations of the form of the human skull, which becomes more 
comprehensive as attention is directed to it, is wholly independent of congenital 
transmitted characteristics. Kumbecephalic, acrocephalic, and platycephalic, 
unsymmetrical, truncated, or elongated heads, may be so common as apparently 
to furnish distinctive ethnical forms, and yet, after all, each may be traceable to 
artificial causes, arising from an adherence to certain customs and usages in the 
nursery. It is in this direction, I conceive, that the importance of the truths 
resulting from the recognition of artificial causes affecting the forms of British 
brachycephalic or other crania chiefly lies. The contents of early British cists 
and barrows prove that the race with which they originated was a rude people 



284 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

ignorant for the most part of the very knowledge of metals, or at best in the 
earliest rudimentary stage of metallurgic arts. They were, in fact, in as unciv- 
ilized a condition as the rudest forest Indians of America. To prove, therefore, 
that, like the Red Indian scjuaw, the British allophylian or Celtic mother formed 
the cradle for her babe of a flat board, to which she bound it, for safety and * 
facility of nursing, in the vicissitudes of her nomade life — though interesting, 
like every other recovered glimpse of a long forgotten past — is not in itself a 
discovery of much significance. But it reminds us how essentially man, even 
in the most degraded state of wandering savage life, differs from all other 
animals. The germs of an artificial life are there. External appliances, and 
the conditions which we designate as domestication in the lower animals, appear 
to be inseparable from him. The most untutored nomades subject their offspring 
to many artificial influences, such as have no analogy among the marvellous 
instinctive operations of the lower animals. It is even not unworthy of notice 
that man is the only animal to whom a supine position is natural for repose ; and 
with him, more than any other animal, the head, when recumbent, invariably 
assumes a position which throws the greatest pressure on the brain case, and 
not on the malar or maxillary bones. 

It thus appears that the study of cranial forms for ethnological purposes is 
beset with many complex elements ; and now that the operation of undesigned 
artificial influences begins to receive an adequate recognition, there is a danger 
that too much may be ascribed to them, and that the ethnical significance of 
congenital forms, and their traces even in the modified crania of different types, 
may be slighted or wholly ignored. Such was undoubtedly the effect on Dr. 
Morton's mind from his familiarity with the results of artificial deformation on 
American crania, coupled, perhaps, with the seductive influences of a favorite 
hypothesis. In his latest recorded opinions, when commenting on some of the 
abnormal forms of Peruvian crania, he remarks : " I at first found it difficult to 
conceive that the original rounded skull of the Indian could be changed into this 
fantastic form, and was led to suppose that the latter was an artificial elongation 
of a head remarkable for its length and narrowness. I even supposed that the 
long-headed Peruvians were a more ancient people than the Inca tribes, and 
distinguished from them by their cranial configuration. In this opinion I was 
mistaken. Abundant means of observation and comparison have since con- 
vinced me that all these variously-formed heads were originally of the same 
shape, which is characteristic of the aboriginal race from Cape Horn to Canada, 
and that art alone has caused the diversities among them."* It is obvious, how- 
ever, that Avithout running to the exti-eme of Dr. Morton, who denied, for the 
American continent, at least, the existence of any true dolichocephalic crania, 
or, indeed, any essential variation from one assumed typical form, it becomes an 
important point for the craniologist to determine, if possible, to what extent 
certain characteristic diversities may be relied upon as the inherited features of 
a tribe or race, or whether they are not the mere result of artificial causes origi- 
nating in long perpetuated national customs and nursery usages. If the latter 
is indeed the case, then they pertain to the materials of archaeological rather 
than of ethnological deduction, and can no longer be employed as elements of 
ethnical classification. 

The idea that the peculiar forms of certain ancient European skulls is trace- 
able to the use of the cradle-board, or other nursing usages, is rapidly gaining 
ground, with extended observations. My own ideas, formed at an earlier date, 
were first published in 1857, t but it now appears that the same idea had occurred 
to Dr. L. A. Grosse, and received by him a wider application. In his " Essai 
sur les Deformations artificielles du Crane," he has not only illustrated the 

* Physical Type of the American Indian, p. 32G. 

+ Edm. Philosoph. Jour., N. S., Vol. VII, p. 25; Canadian Journal, Vol. II, p. 426. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 285 

general subject of artificial causes as a means of accounting for abnormal cranial 
forms, but he thus incidentally notices the peculiarity refcn-red to in Scottish and 
Scandinavian skulls, and traces it to the same probable source of the cradle- 
board. His remarks are: "Passant dans I'ancien continent, ne tardons-nous 
pas a rcconnaitre que ce berceau plat et solide y a prodnit des effets analogues. 
Les anciens habitans de la Scandinavie et de la CaUidonie devaient s'en servir. 
si Ton en juge par la forme de leurs cranes."* Dr. Gosse also adds : " Ve.sale 
( Opera, lib. I, cap. v, § 25) nous apprend que la deformation occipitale s'obser- 
vait meme chez les Germains de son epoque : * Germani vero compresso ple- 
rumque occipite et lata capite spectantur, quod pueri in cunis dorso semj>er in- 
iumbunt, ac manibus fere eitra fasciaruvi usum, cunarmn lateribus utrinque 
aUiguntur.' De meme qu'en Amei'ique, cette pratique, en Allemagne, devait 
etre commune aux deux sexes.'" 

More recently Dr. J. Barnard Davis has illustrated the same subject, both in 
the later decades of the Crania Britannica and in a memoir in the Natural 
History Review for July, 1862, entitled " Notes on the Distortions which pre- 
sent themselves in the Crania of the Ancient Britons." 

Whilst the error of an undue estimate of the extent of such deforming and 
reforming influences must be guarded against, it is obvious that they will hence- 
forth require to be taken into account in every attempt to determine ethnical 
classification by means of physical confonnation. Every scheme of the craui- 
ologist for systematizing ethnical variations of cranial configuration, and every 
process of induction pursued by the ethnologist from such data, procr^ed on the 
assumption that such varieties in the form of cranium are constant within cer- 
tain determinate limits, and originate in like natural causes with the featui'es by 
which we distinguish one nation from another. By like means the comparative 
anatomist discriminates between the remains of the Bos primigenius, the Bos 
longifrons, and other kindred animal remains, frequently found alongside the 
human skeleton, in the barrow; and by a similar crucial comparison the crani- 
ologisr, aims at classifying the crania of the ancient Briton, Roman, Saxon, and 
Scandinavian, apart from any aid derived from the evidence of accompanying 
works of art. But if it be no longer disputable that the Iniman head is liable 
to modification from external causes, so that one skull may have been subjected 
to lateral compression, resulting in the elongation and narrowing of its form, 
whilf another under the influence of occipital pressure may exhibit a consequent 
abbreviation in its length, accompanied by parietal expansion, it becomes indis- 
pensable to determine some data whereby to eliminate this perturbing element 
before we can ascertain the actual significance of national skull-forms. If, for 
example, as appears to be the case, the crania from British graves of Roman 
times reveal a different form from that of the modern Celtic Briton, the cause 
may be an intermixture of races, like that which is clearly traceable among the 
mingled descendants of Celtic and Scandinavian blood in the north of Scotland ; 
but it may also be in part, or wholly, the mere result of a change of national 
customs following naturally on conquest, civilization, and the abandonment of 
Paganism for Christianity. 

It is, is this respect, that the artificial causes tending to alter the natural con- 
formation of the human head invite our special study. They appear at present 
purely as disturbing elements in the employment of craniological tests of classi- 
fication. It is far from improbable, however, that when fully understood they 
may greatly extend our means of classification ; so that when we have traced to 
such causes certain changes in form, in which modern races are known to differ 
from their ethnical precursors, we shall be able to turn the present element of 
disturbance to account, as an additional confirmation of truths established by 
inductive craniology. Certain it is, however, whatever value may attach to 

* Essai sur les D&formations artificielles du Crdnc," p. 74, Dr. L. A. Gosse, 1855. 



286 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY 

the systematizing of sucli artificial forms, that they are of frequent occurrence, 
apart altogether from such configuration as is clearly referable to the application 
of mechanical pressure iu infancy with that express object in view ; or, again, as is 
no less obviously the result of posthumous compression. But, though the de- 
forming processes designedly practiced among ancient and modern savage nations 
lie beyond the direct purpose of the present inquiry, they are calculated to 
throw important light on the approximate results of undesigned compression and 
arrested development. 

Among the Flathead Indian tribes of Oregon and Columbia river, where mal- 
formation of the skull is purposely aimed at, the infant's head is tightly bound 
in a fixed position, and maintained under a continuous pressure for months. 
But it is a mistake to suppose that in the ordinary use of the cradle-board the 
Indian pappoose is subject to any such extreme restraint. The objects in view 
are facility of nursing and transport, and perfect safety for the child. But 
tho3(i being secured, it is nurtured with a tenderness, of maternal instinct sur- 
passing that of many savage nations. The infant is invariably laid on its back, 
but the head rests on a pillow or mat of moss or frayed bark, and is not further 
restrained in a fixed position than necessarily results from the posture in which 
the body is retained by the bandages securing it in the cradle. This fact I have 
.?a'*!sfied myself of from repeated observations. But the consequence necessarily 
is, that the soft and pliant bones of the infant's head are subjected to a slight 
but constant pressure on the occiput during the whole protracted period of nurs- 
ing, when they are pecu^liarly sensitive to external influences. Experiments 
have shown that at that period the bones specially aifected by the action of the. 
cradle- board are not only susceptible of changes, but liable to morbid affections, 
dependent on the nature of the infant's food. Lehraann suppases the cranio- 
tahes of Elsas.-^er to be a foi*m of rachitis which affects the occipital and parietal 
bones during the period of suckling; and Schlossberger ascertained by a series 
of analyS'CS of such bones that the 63 per cent, of mineral constituents found in 
the normal occipital bones of healthy children during the first year diminished 
to 51 per cent iu the thickened and spongy bone.* The fluctuations in propor- 
tion of the mineral constituents of bones are considerable, and vary in the dif- 
ferent bones, but in the osseous tissue they may be staged at 67 to 70 per cent. 
It. is obvious, therefore, that, under the peculiar physiological condition of the 
cranial bones during the period of nursing, such constant mechanical action as 
the occipital region of the Indian pappoose is subjected to must be productive 
of pemianent change. The child is not removed from the cradle board when 
su>-kling and is not therefore liable to any counteracting lateral pressme against 
its mother's breast. Trifling as it may appear, it is not without interest to have 
the. fact brought under our notice by the disclosures, of ancient barrows and 
cists, that the sama practice of nursing the child, and carrying it about bound 
to a flat cradle board, prevailed in Britain and the north of Europe long before the 
first notices of written history reveal the. presence of man beyond the Baltic or 
the English channel, and that, in all probability, the same custom prevailed con- 
tinuously from the shores of the German Ocean to Behriug's Straits. All the 
effects of such a universally prevalent practice, operating to produce uniform 
results on the form of the skull and brain, are scarcely yet fully estimated ; but 
that it has afiected the form of the head wherever it has been practiced I enter- 
tain no doubt. One effect of the continuous pressure on the infant skull must 
be to bring the edges of the bones together, and thereby to retard or arrest the 
growth of the bone iu certain directions. Where this leads to ossification at a 
very early period, its tendency must be to Ihnit the direction in which the fur- 
ther expansion of the brain takes place, and so still further to affect the perma- 
nent shape of the head. The tendency of the pressure to produce some of the 



'Schlossberger, Ai'ch., f. phys. Heilk. Lehmaun, Pliysiol. Chem., Vol. Ill, p. 



28. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 287 

* 

results here ascribed to it is proved by the premature ossification of sutures in 
many of the artificially deformed American crania. 

Among the numerous objects of ethnological interest brought home by the 
United States Exploring Expedition, and now in the possession of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, is a collection of thirty-four Flathead skulls. These I have 
examined wifilx minute care. Some of them exhibit the most diverse forms of 
distortion, with the forehead sloping away at an abrupt angle from the eye- 
brow, or flattened into a disc, so as to present in front the appearance of a hydro- 
cephalous head, and in profile the side of a narrow wedge. ]\Iany of them are 
also characterized by Avormian bones and other abnormal formations at the 
sutures, and the distinct definition of a true supra-occipital bone is repeatedly 
apparent. In the majority of them the premature ossification, and the occa- 
sional entire obliteration of sutures, the gaping of others, and even traces of 
fracture, or false sutures, may be observed. 

It is marvellous to see the extraordinary amount of distortion to which th« 
skull and brain may be subjected without seemingly affecting either health or 
intellect. The coveted deformity is produced partly by actual compression, and 
partly by the growth of the brain and skull being thereby limited to certain 
directions'. Hale, the ethnographer of the Exploring Expedition, after de- 
scribing the process as practiced among the Chinooks, remarks : " The appear- 
ance of the child when just released from this confinement is truly hideous. 
The transverse diameter of the head above the ears is nearly twice as great as 
the longitudinal, from the forehead to the occiput. The eyes, which are natu- 
rally deep-set, become protruding and appear as if s(][ueezed partially out of the 
head."* Mr. Paul Kane, in describing to me the same appearance, as witnessed 
by him on the Columbia river, compared the eyes to those of a mouse strangled 
in a trap. Tlio appearance is little less singular for some time after the child 
has been freed from the constricting bandages, as shown in an engraving from 
one of Mr. Kane's sketches of a Chinook child seen by him at Fort Astoria.! 

In after years the brain, as it increases, partially recovers its shape; and in 
some of the deformed adult skulls one suture gapes, while all the rest are ossi- 
fied ; and occasionally a fracture or false suture remains open. An adult skull 
of the same extremely deformed shape, among those brought home by the Ex- 
ploring Expedition, illustrates the great extent to which the brain may be sub- 
jected to compression and malformation Avithout affecting the intellect. It is 
that of a Nisqually chief, procured from his canoe-bier in Washington Terri- 
tory. (No. 4549.) The internal capacity, and consequent volume of brain, is 
95 cubic inches. The head is compressed into a flattened disc, with the fore- 
head receding in a straight line from the nasal suture to the crown of the head, 
Avhile the lambdoidal suture is on the same plane with the foramen magnum. 
The sutures are nearly all completely ossified, and the teeth ground quite flat, 
as is common with many of the tribes in the same region, and especially Avith 
the Walla- Walla Indians on the Columbia river, Avho live chiefly on salmon, 
dried in the sun, and invariably impregnated with the sand Avhich abounds in 
the barren AVaste they occupy. I assume the urumpaired intellect of the Nis- 
qually chief from his rank. The Flathead tribes are in the constant habit of 
making slaves of the Roundheaded Indians ; but no slave is allowed to flatten 
or otherwise modify the form of her child's head, that being the badge of Flat- 
head aristocracy. As this has been systematically pursued ever since the tribes 
of the Pacific coast Avere brought under the notice of Europeans, it is obvious 
that if such superinduced deformity developed any general tendency to cerebral 
disease, or materially affected the intellect, the result would be apparent in the 
degeneracy or extirpation of the Flathead tribes. But so far is this from being 

* Ethnography of the U. S. Exploring Expedition, p. 21G. 
t Prohistoiic Muu, Vol. II, p. 320. 



288 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

tlie case, that they are described by traders and voyagers as acute and intelli- 
gent. They are, moreover, an object of dread to neighboring tribes who retain 
the normal form of head, and they look on them with contempt as thus bearing 
the hereditary badge of slaves. 

Tilt; child born to such strange honors is laid, soon after its birth, upon the cradle- 
board, an oblong piece of wood, sometimes slightly holloAved, and with a cross- 
board projecting beyond the head to protect it from injury. A small pad of 
leather, stuffed with moss or frayed cedar-bark, is placed on the forehead and 
tightly fastened on either side to the board ; and this is rarely loosened until 
its final removal before the end of the first year. The skull has then received 
a form which is only slightly modified during the subsequent growth of the 
brain. But the very same kind of cradle is in use among all the Indian tribes. 
It is, indeed, varied as to its ornamental adjuncts and non-essential details, but 
practically it resolves itself, in every case, into a straight board to which the 
infant is bound ; and as it is retained in a recumbent position, the pressure 
of its own weight during the period when, as has been shown, the occipital and 
parietal bones are peculiarly soft and compressible, is thus made to act constantly 
in one direction. This I assume to have been the cause of the vertical or other- 
wise flattened occiput in the ancient British brachycephalic crania. The same 
cause must tend to increase the characteristic shortness in the longitudinal 
diameter, to produce the premature ossification of certain sutures, and to shorten 
the zygoma, with probably, also, some tendency to make the arch bulge out in 
its effort at subsequent full growth, and so to widen the face. 

Fashion regulates to some extent the special form of head aimed at among 
the, various Flathead tribes. Some compress the whole brain into a flattened disc 
which presents an enormous forehead in full face; others run to the opposite 
extreme, and force it into an abrupt slope immediately above the eyebrows, so 
as to give an idiotic look to the seemingly brainless face. Individual caprice, 
and probably, also, clumsy manipulation, combine frequently to produce a 
shapeless deformity of skull, in which the opposite sides present no trace of 
correspondence, and every vestige of ethnical character is effaced. Among the 
Newatees, a tribe on the north end of Vancouver's island, the head is forced 
into a conical shape, by means of a cord of deer's-skin padded with the inner 
bark of the cedar tree, frayed into the consistency of soft tow. This forms a 
cord about the thickness of a man's thumb, which is wound round the infant's 
head, and gradually compresses it into a tapering cone. Commander Mayne, 
in his narrative of his visit to Columbia and Vancouver island, gives a sketch 
of an Indian girl, and adds in reference to it : " Those who have only seen cer- 
tain tribes may be inclined to think the sketch exaggerated, but it was really 
drawn from measurement, and she was found to have eighteen inches of flesh 
from her eyes to the top of her head." From the extraordinary amount of de- 
formity which I have seen produced by such means, it would be unwise to 
reject any narrative of an intelligent eye-witness relative to extreme examples 
of such abnormal heads. I should be inclined, however, to suspect that in 
the case of the girl drawn by Commander Mayne, he was deceived by her 
mode of dressing her hair. I have eng^i-aved in my " Prehistoric Man"* the 
head of a Newatee chief of the same conical form, and with the hair gathered 
into a knot on the top of the head. The latter practice is in constant use for 
increasing the apparent elevation of the favorite conoid head-form. In all such 
cases the volume of brain appears to remain little, if at all, affected, and the 
extreme proportions in length, breadth, or height of the skull must bo limited 
by the capacity of the brain, whatever be th(; fantastic shape it is made to 
assume, in the case of the girl from Vancouver's island, part of the extreme 



Prehistoric Mau, Vol. I, p. 317. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY, 289 

height of her singuharly formed head was prohably an artificial pad over which 
the hair was drawn. 

Compared Avith such extreme deformation, the traces of artificial change on 
the forms of British skulls are trifling. They are, however, all the more im- 
portant from their liability to be confounded with true congenital forms, as in 
the case of the flattened occiput. Dr. Davis has applied the term " parieto- 
occipital flatness," where the results of artificial compression in certain British 
skulls extend over the parietals with the upper portion of the occipital, and he 
appears to regard this as something essentially distinct from the vertical occi- 
put.* But it is a form of common occurrence in Indian skulls, and is in reality 
the most inartificial of all the results of the undesigned pressure of the cradle- 
board. This will be understood by a very simple experiment. If the observer 
lie down on the floor, without a pillow, and then ascertain what part of the back 
of the head touches the ground, he will find that it is the portion of the occipvit 
immediately above the lambdoidal suture, and not the occipital bone. When the 
Indian mother places a suiiicicutly high pillow for her infant, the tendency of 
the constant pressure w'ill be k) produce the vertical occiput; but where, as is 
more frequently the case, the board has a mere cover of moss or soft leather, 
then the result will be just such an oblique parietal flattening as is shown on a 
British skull from the lemaikable tumulus near Littleton Drew, Wiltshire.! 

But there are other sources of modification of the human skull in infancy, 
even more common than the cradle-board. More than one of the predominant 
head-forms in Normandy and Belgium are now traced to artificial bandaging; 
and by many apparently trifling and unheeded causes, consequent on national 
customs, nursing usages, or the caprices of dress and fashion, the form of the 
head may be modified in the nursery. The constant laying of the infant to 
rest on its side, the pressure in the same direction in nursing it, along with the 
fashion of cap, hat, or wrappage, may all influence the shape of head among 
civilized nations, and in certain cases tend as much to exaggerate the naturally 
dolichocephalic skull as the Indian cradle-board increases the short diameter of 
the opposite type. Such artificial cranial forms as that designated by M. Foville, 
the Tc'te annulaire, may have predominated for many centuries throughout 
certain rural districts of France, solely from the unreasoning conformity with 
which the rustic nurse adhered to the traditional or prescriptive bandages to 
which he ascribes that distortion. All experience shows that such usages are 
among the least eradicable, and long survive the shock of revolutions that change 
dynasties and efface more important national characteristics. 

The effect, as we have already seen, which a constant familiarity Avith the 
results of extreme artificial deformation on American crania produced on Dr. 
Morton's mind, Avas to lead him to ignore all distinctions of ethnical form, and 
to retract his earlier idea that the elongated PeruA^ian crania. Avere artificial ex- 
aggerations of a head of great natural length. Originally he had adopted the 
conclusion that the long-headed Peruvians were a more ancient people than 
AA'hat he called the Inca tribes, and distinguished from them by their cranial 
configitration; but this he abandoned at a later period, and assumed that CA-ery 
skull found on the American continent, AvhatcA^er might be the extreme A'ariation 
in opposite directions from his assumed typical form, had been naturally a short 
globular skidl, Avith Ioav retreating forehead and A^ertical occiput. ^ On the fallacy 
invoh-ed in such a conclusion it is unnecessary to make further comment, as the 
evidence Avhich appears to confute it has already been produced. But the dis- 
clositres of llie essentially diverse types of skidl in the ancient cemeteries of 
Peru appear to me to present some highly interesting analogies to th<3 discov- 
eries made in British barrows. The repeated opportunities I have enjoyed of 



* Nat. Hist, necicw, Jiilv. 1862. Athenaum, Sept. 27. 18W, 11.41)2. 

t Crania Brilannica, Decade 111, Plate 24. 

19c 



290 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

examining the Mortouian and other American collections have satisfied me of 
the occurrence of both dolichocephalic and brachycephalic crania, not only as the 
characteristics of distinct tribes, but also among the contents of the same Peru- 
vian cemeteries, not as examples of extreme latitudes of form in a common race, 
but as the results of the admixture cither of conquering and subject races, or 
of distinct classes of nobles and serfs, most generally resulting from the pre- 
dominance of conquerors. Among the Peruvians the elongated cranium per- 
tained to the dominant race; and some of the results of later researches in 
primitive British cemeteries, and especially the disclosures of the remarkable 
class of chambered barrows, seem to point to au analogous condition of races. 
That the Uley and West Kennet skulls may have been laterally compressed, 
while the Codford barrow and other brachycephalic skulls have been affected 
in the opposite direction, appears equally probable. But such artificial influences 
only very partially account for the great diversity of type ; and no such causes, 
(^ven if brought to bear in infancy, could possibly convert the one into the other 
form. 

But as the cranial forms, both of the Old and New World, betray evidences 
of modification by such artificial means, so also we find in ancient Africa a 
diverse form of head, to which art may have contributed, solely by leaving it 
more than usually free from all exti'aneous influences. Such at least is a con- 
clusion suggested to my mind from the examination of a considerable number 
uf Egyptian skulls. Among familiar relics of domestic usages of the ancient 
Egyptians is the pillow designed for the neck, and not the head, to rest upon. 
Such pillows are found of miniature sizes, indicating that the Egyptian passed 
from earliest infancy Avithout his head being subjected even to so slight a pres- 
sure as the pillow, while he rested recumbent. The Egyptian skull is long, 
with great breadth and fulness in the posterior region. In its prominent, 
rounded parieto-occipital conformation, an equally striking contrast is presented 
to the British brachycephalic skull, with truncated occiput, and to the opposite 
extreme characteristic of the primitive dolichocephalic skull ; though exceptional 
examples are not rare. This characteristic did not escape Dr. Morton's observ- 
ant eye ; and is repeatedly indicated in the Crania jEgyiitiaca under the designa- 
tion, "tumid occiput." It also appeared to me, after careful examination of the 
fine collection formed by him, and now in the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
Philadelphia, that the Egyptian crania are generally characterized by considera- 
ble symmetrical uniformity : as was to be anticipated, if there is any truth in 
the idea of undesigned artificial compression and deformation resulting from such 
simple causes as accompany the mode of nurture in infancy. 

The heads of the Eiji Islanders supply a means of testing the same cause, 
operating on a brachycephalic form of cranium ; as most of the islanders of the 
Eiji group employ a neck pillow nearly similar to that of the ancient Egyptians, 
and with the same purpose in view : that of preserving their elaborately dressed 
hair from disshevelment. In their case, judging from an example in the collec- 
tion of the Royal College of Surgeons of London, the occipital region is broad, 
and presents in profile a uniform, rounded conformation passing almost imper- 
ceptibly into the coronal region. Indeed, the broad, well-rounded occiput is 
considered by the Eijians a great beauty. The bearing of this, however, in 
relation to the present argument, depends on whether or not the Fiji neck-pilloAV 
is used in infancy, of which I am uncertain. The necessity which suggests its 
use at a later period does not then exist; but the prevalent use of any special 
form of pillow for adults is likely to lead to its adoption from the fiftt. In one 
male Fiji skull brought home by the United States Exploring Expedition (No. 
4-581) the occiput exhibits the characteristic full, rounded form, with a large and 
Avell-defined supra-occipital bone. But in another skull in the same collection — 
that of Vendovi, Chief of Kautavu, who was taken prisoner by the United 
States ship Peacock, in 1840, and died at New York in 1842 — the occiput, 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 291 

though full, is slightly vertical. The occipital development of the Fiji cranium 
is the more interesting as we are now familiar with the fact that an artificially 
flattened occiput is of common occurrence among the islanders of the Pacific 
ocean. "In the Malay race," says Dr. Pickering, "a more marked peculiarity, 
and one very generally observable, is the elevated occiput, and its slight pro- 
jection beyond the line of the neck. The Mongolian traits are heightened arti- 
ficially in the Ohinooks ; but it is less generally known that a slight pressure is 
often applied to the occiput by the Polynesians, in conformity Avith the Malay 
standard."* Dr. Nott, in describing the skull of a Kanaka of the Sandwich 
Islands Avho died at the Marine Hospital at Mobile, mentions his being struck 
by its singular occipital formation ; but tliis he learned was due to an artificial 
flattening which the islander had stated to his medical attendants in the hospital, 
was habitually practiced in his family. t According to Dr. Davis, it is traceable 
to so simple a source as the Kanaka mother's habit of supporting the head of 
her nursling in the palm of her hand.f Whatever be the cause, the fact is now 
well established. The occipital flattening is clearly defined in at least three of 
the Kanaka skulls in the Mortonian collection: No. 1300, a male native of the 
Sandwich Islands, aged about forty; No. 1308, apparently that of a woman, 
from- the same localitj^; and in No. 695, a girl of Oahu, of probably twelve 
years of age, which is markedly unsymmetrical, and with the flattening on the 
left side of the painetal and occipital bones. . The Washington collection in- 
cludes fourteen Kanaka skulls, besides others from various islands of the Pacific, 
among which several examples of the same artificial formation occur : e. g., No. 
4587, a large male skull, distorted and unsymmetrical; and No. 4367, (female?) 
from an ancient cemetery at Wailuka, Maui, in which the flattened occiput is 
very obvious. 

The traces of purposed deformation of the head among the islanders of the 
Pacific have an additional interest in their relation to one possible source of 
South American population by oceanic migration, suggested by philological and 
other independent evidence. But for our present purpose the peculiar value of 
those modified skulls lies in the disclosures of influences operating alike unde- 
signedly, and with a well-defined purpose, in producing the very same cranial 
conformation among races occupying the British Islands in ages long anterior to 
earliest history; and among the savage tribes of America and the simple island- 
ers of the Pacific in the present day. They illustrate, with peculiar vividness, 
the primitive condition of social life out of which the civilization of modern 
Europe has been educed; and, while they pertain to more modern eras than the 
traces of human art contemporaneous with the extinct mammals of the drift, 
they revivify for us, with even clearer distinctness than the rude implements of 
flint and stone found in early graves, the condition of the British Islanders of 
prehistoric times. 



PARTT lai. 

PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

PRIMITIVE ART-TRACES. 

The evidences of an assumed cranial and physical unity pervading the abo- 
rigines of the American continent disappear upon a careful scrutiny, and the 



" Pickcring'6 Races of Man, p. 45. 

+Types of Mankind, p. 43G. 

X Crania Britannica, Dec. Ill, pi. 24, (4.) 



292 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

like results follow wliPii the same critical investigation is applied to other proofs 
adduced in support of this attractive but unsubstantial theory. Dr. Morton, after 
completing his elaborate and valuable illustrations of American craniology, intro- 
duces an engraving of a mummy of a Muysca Indian of New Granada, and 
adds : "As an additional evidence of the unity of race and species in the Amer- 
ican nations, 1 shall now adduce the singular fact that, from Patagonia to Canada, 
and from ocean to ocean, and equally in the civilized and uncivilized tiibes, a 
peculiar mode of placing the body in sepulture has been practiced from imme- 
morial time. This peculiarity consists in the sitting posture."* The author 
accordingly proceeds to marshal his evidence in proof of the practice of such a 
mode of interment among many separate and independent tribes; nor is it diffi- 
cult to do so, for it was a usage of greatly more extended recognition than his 
theory of "unity of race and species" implies. It was a prevailing, though by 
no means universal mode of sepulture among the tribes of the New World, as 
it was among many of those of the Old, recorded by the pen of Herodotus, and 
proved by sepulchral disclosures pertaining to still older eras. The British 
cromlechs show that the very same custom was followed by their builders in 
primitive times. The ancient barrows of Scandinavia reveal the like fact, and 
abundant evidence proves the existence of such sepulchral rites„ in ancient or 
modern times, in every quarter of the globe; so that, if the prevalence of a 
peculiar mode of interment of the dead may be adduced as evidence of the unity 
of race and species, it can only operate by reuniting the lost links which restore 
to the red man his common share in the genealogy of the sons of Adam. But 
ancient and modern discoveries also prove considerable diversity in the sepulchral 
rites of all nations. The skeleton has beaa found in a sitting posture in British 
cromlechs, barrows, and graves, of dates to all appearance long prior to the era 
of Roman invasion, and of others unquestionably subsequent to that of Saxon 
immigration; but evidences are found of cremation and urn-bui'ial, in equally 
ancient times; of the recumbent skeleton under the cairn, and barrow, in the 
stone cist, and in the rude sarcophagus hewn out of the solid trunk of the oak ; 
and in this, as in so many other respects, the British microcosm is but an epi- 
tome of the great world. Norway, Denmark, Germany, and France all supply 
similar evidences of varying rites; and ancient and modern customs of Asia 
and Africa confirm the universality of the same. In the Tonga and other islands 
of the Pacific, as well as in the newer Avorld of Australia, the custom of bury- 
ing the dead in a sitting posture has been repeatedly noted; but it is not uni- 
versal even among them; nor was it so in America, though affirmed by Dr. 
Morton to be traceable throughout the northern and southern continents, and, 
by its universality, to afford "collateral evidence of riie affiliation of all the 
American nations." So far is this from being the case that nearly every ancient 
and modern sepulchral rite appears to have had its counterpart in the New 
WoiLl ; and in this, as in many other respects, its isolation from the older con- 
tinents in affinities and corresponding characteristics, '£ not in actuaj intercourse, 
disappears on more extended research. To follow out all the varied indications 
of such analogy or parallelism would lead to a very extensive range of inquiry, 
which I shall not now enter upon. But one seemingly trifling analogy, trace- 
able in the correspondence of the rude weapons and implements of flint and 
stone wrought and fashioned by the aborigines of America, with those recovered 
f-'om the ancient barrows of northern Europe, connects the early traces of 
man in both hemispheres by means of arts which are acquiring a new and com- 
prehensive significance. 

The development of primitive archseology, by the labors of Thomsen and his 
Danish fellow-laborers, into a systematic science, laid the foundations for that 
novel and profoundly interesting inquiry which now tempts the ablest geologists 

* Crania Americana, p. '244. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 293 

from the study of tlie palseosoic rocks to the recent sedimentary cave deposits 
and the superficial drift. The investigations of British archaeologists, following 
in the footsteps of their northern precursors, have now familiarized us with the 
character of that primitive art so widely diffused throughout those ages embraced 
within the European Stone Period. That age of stone derives its special 
characteristic from the occurrence of numerous examples of arms and implements 
of flint or stone, many of which are wrought with considerable skill and finished 
with minute care. Others, however, are sufficiently rude and unshaped to illus- 
trate the most artless efforts of primitive mechanical skill. These are formed 
from flint nodules and pieces of rock by mere blows from another stone, guided, 
in the case of the flint-workers, by a knowledge of the concoidal fracture of the 
flint and the consequent facility of its reduction to long and narrow splinters, 
readily convertible into wedges, chisels, knives, and lance or arrow heads. The 
simplest implements of this class are frequently water-worn stones, partially 
hewn, so as to reduce one end to a sharp or angular edge. But, while speci- 
mens of such rudimentary art are not uncommon, many more are chipped into 
symmetrical form with minute care and are ground to a fine edge, or even 
wrought into artistic forms and polished throughout the whole surface. To those 
it has been customary with many to apply the epithet Celtic, and so to assume 
their origin from that people who immediately preceded the Romans in the scenes 
of their latest European conquests. This, however, is rather an assumption 
than any well-grounded induction; and, though revived by M. Boucher de 
Perthes in his Antiquites Celtique et Antcd'duviennes, (1849,) had been previ- 
ously set aside by Thomsen, Worsaac, Nilsson, and other Scandinavian archje- 
ologists, and, at the very time, was challenged in a communication submitted 
by me to the ethnological section of the British Association, entitled : An Inquiry 
into the Evidence of' Primitive Races in Scotland prior to the Celta* But that 
which was a bold surmise in 1850 seems an insignificant and self-evident truism 
in the light of the well-established facts, and cautious yet comprehensive induc- 
tions, relative to the flint implements found in the same drift of England and 
Erance alongside of bones of the Elephas primigenius, Rhinoceros tichor- 
hinus, Equus fossil IS, Felis spclaia. Hyena spelcca, and numerous other extinct 
mammals. 

The facts connected with the discovery of works of human art associated 
in undisturbed gravel with the fossil bones of extinct quadrupeds, or in corres- 
ponding diluvial strata both of Erance and England, are now too well known 
to need recapitulation. It is indeed a significant fact that some of them have 
been long familiar to British antiquaries, though the true bearings of their dis- 
covery are only now beginning to be recognized. So early as 1715, a weapon 
of flint, six and a half inches long, and rudely chipped into the form of a spear- 
head, was dug up at Black Mary's, near Gray's Inn Lane, London, along with 
an elephant's tooth, and apparently lying beside the entire skeleton of a fossil 
elephant.t This curious evidence of the remote presence of man in the most 
populous centre of his modern civic settlements lay unheeded in the collections 
of the British Museum for nearly a century and a half. Meanwhile, towards 
the close of the eighteenth century, another remarkable discovery of the same 
kind was made at Hoxne, in Sufiblk, in gravel at a depth of twelve feet in a 
stratified soil, and immediately underneath a horizontal bed of sand mixed with 
shells of existing fresh-water and land mollusca, «nd Avith gigantic fossil bones. 
An account of this discovery was commnnlcated by Mr. John Erere to the 
Society of Antiquaries of London in I797,|iind specimens of the flint imple- 
ments were deposited in the society's museum, where they are still preserved. 

It is interesting and highly satisfactory to know that not only had such facts 

* British Association Report, 1850, p. 144. 
tArclisBologia, Vol. XXXVIII, p. 301. 
X Ibid, Vol. XIII, p. 204. 



294 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

been on record tlius long before their significance was appreciated, but the rude 
implements of the drift have been exhibited in the collections of the British 
Museum and the Society of Antiquaries of Loudon as the works of man; nor 
was it till the corresponding discoveries in the French drift, and the minute 
examination of the stratified gravel in which they were found, had led Rigollot, 
Prestwich, Lyell, and other competent authorities to deduce evidence of a lapse 
of many ages between the era of the fossil implements and that to which 
llomano-Gaulish relics belong, that any one dreamt of questioning their human 
origin. More recently similar implements have been found in the same diluvial 
gravel and clay in which remains of the gigantic fossil mammals abound, in 
Sufiblk, Kent, Bedfordshire, and other post-pliocene deposits of the south of 
England;* and not only is their artificial character undoubted, but the corres- 
pondence Jbetween the drift implements of France and England is so close as to 
be at once recognized by the workmen employed in the excavations both at 
Hoxne and Abbeville. 

Such discoveries have naturally led to many startling speculations relative to 
the apparent lapse of a vast period of time between the era of the drift race and 
the earliest dates of authentic history, and it has been specially noted that while 
the drift implements resemble in material those most frequently found in the 
graves of northern Europe's stone period, they present a striking contrast to the 
small and well-finished implements chiefly pertaining to such sepulchral deposits, 
and seem to be the memorials of an age of ruder strength and still more infantile 
skill. Such a conclusion, if fully borne out, is all the more important as it has 
otherwise been noted as a highly interesting fact, that so general a correspondence 
is traceable between the majority of the flint and stone weapons and implements 
found in ancient European graves and those still manufactured by the aborigines 
of the Pacific islands, and throughout the American continent, that they seem 
like the products of the same mechanical instinct, repeating itself under similar 
circumstances in the arts of savage man. 

When Mr. Joseph Prestwich proceeded to Abbeville, in 1859, to investigate 
the discoveries reported by M. Boucher de Perthes, he was accompanied by Mr. 
John Evans, F. S. A., Avho has since communicated the results of their observa- 
tions to the Society of Antiquarie's.t He notes that, so far as hitherto observed, 
the implements found in the drift are formed exclusively of flint, and these he 
classifies, for convenience of further reference, under three heads : 

1. Flint flakes, apparently intended for arrow-heads or knives. 

2. Pointed weapons, some probably lance or spear heads. 

3. Oval or almond-shaped implements presenting a cutting edge all round. 
The objects first named most nearly resemble a numerous class found in 

ancient sepulchral deposits, but they are produced by so simple a process, and 
betray such partial traces of artificial modification, that even when their character 
as works of art is indisputable, they bear so much resemblance to similar simple 
natural forms as to be of little value as conclusive evidence of human design or 
workmanship. But the case is altogether different with the two other classes; 
and the opinion has been repeatedly expressed that they present little or no 
analogy in form to any of the works described by Danish, British, or other 
archaiologists of Europe, as pertaining to the so-called Stone Period. Accord- 
ingly, after having described the repeated discovery of flint flakes in the drift, 
as in the sand and gravel near Abbeville, and in the corresponding formation at 
Menchecourt, where Mr. Prestwiclv witnessed their exhumation. ]Mr. Evans 
acknowledges the uncertainty pertaining to any argument based solely on such 
evidence ; and still further specifies as an element rendering them valueless for 



* Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Vol. XVII, p. 362. 

f On the Oocurreuce of Flint loiplements in Undisturbed Beds of Gravel, Sand, and Clay. 
By John Evans, F. S. A., F. G. S. Archajologia, Vol. XXXVIII, p. 280. 



PHYSICAL EIIINOLOGY. 295 

the purpose of tlio.sc who are seeking for indications of man's presence in such 
localities at a period separated by vast ages from tlie earliest beginnings of 
history, that, "though closely resembling the flakes of flint which have been 
considered as affording evidence of man's existence when found in ossiferous 
caverns, this class is not of much importance in the inquiry, because, granting 
them to be of human work, there is little hy ivhic.h to (Ustingulsh them from 
similar implements of more recent dateT Of the artificial origin and peculiar 
characteristics of the two other classes of implements no such doubt can be 
entertained, and Mr. Evans accordingly proceeds to remark : " The case is dif- 
ferent with the implements of the second class, those analogous in form to spear 
or lance heads. Of these there are two varieties : the one with a rounded cut- 
ting point, its general outline presenting a sort of parabolic curve,* the other 
acutely pointed, with the sides curved slightly inward.t These have received 
from the workmen of St. Acheul the name of 'lavgues de chat,' from their 
fancied resemblance to a cat's tongue. The sides of both kinds are brought to 
an edge by chipping, but are not so sharp as the point, and altogether these 
weapons seem better adapted for piercing than for cutting. In length they vary 
from about four inches to eight, or even nine inches. Both shapes are generally 
more convex on one side than on the other, the convexity in some cases almost 
amounting to a ridge. They are usually truncated at the base, and not unfre- 
quently at that end show a portion of the original surface of the flint ; in some 
specimens the butt end is left very thick, as if to add impetus to any blow given 
with the implement. The remarkable feature about them is their being adapted 
only to cut or pierce at the pointed end, whereas in the ordinary form of stone 
hatchet or celt the cutting edge is almost without exception at the broad end, 
while the more pointed end seems intended for insertion into the handle or 
socket and the sides are generally roxuided or flat, and not sharp. 

" These spear-shaped weapons from the drift are, on the contrary, not at all 
adapted for insertion into a socket, but are better calculated to be tied to a shaft 
or handle, with a stop or bracket behind their truncated end. IMany of them, 
indeed, seem to have been intended for use without any handle at all, the 
rounded end of the flints from Avhich they were formed having been left un- 
chipped, and presenting a sort of natural handle. It is nearly useless to speculate 
on the purposes to which they were applied, but, attached to poles, they would 
prove formidable weapons for encounter with man, or the larger animals, eithor 
in close conflict or thrown from a distance as darts. 

" It has been suggested by ]\I. de Perthes that some of them may have been 
used merely as wedges for splitting Avood, or, again, they may have been em- 
ployed in grubbing for esculent roots, or tilling the ground, assuming that the 
race who formed them was sufficiently advanced in civilization. This murJi, 1 
think, rnaij he said of them toiih certainty, that thcij arc not analogous in form 
icitli any of the ordinary implements of the so-called Sto?/e Period. 

"The same remark holds good with regard to the third class into Avhich I 
have divided these implements, viz., thoss with a cutting edge all round. | In 
general contour they are usually oval, with one end more sharply curved than 
the other, and occasionally coming to a sharp point, but there is a considerable 
variety in their form, arising probably from defects in the flints from which they 
were shaped ; the ruling idea is, however, that of the oval, more or less pointetl. 
They are generally almost equally convex on the two sides, and in length vary 
from two to eight or nine inches, though, for the most part, only about four or 
five inches long. The implements of this form appear to be most abundant in 

•-^Archffiologia, Vol. XXXVIII, pi, XV, No 1. 

flbld. pi. XV, No. 2. 

JArchasologia, Vol. XXXVIII, pi. XV, No. 3. 



296 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

the neigliborhoocT of Abbeville, while those of the spear-shape prevail near 
Amieias." 

Mr. Evans then points out that, among the implements discovered in Kent's 
Hole Cavern, there were some identical in form with the oval flints from Abbe- 
ville ; but he adds, " in character they do not resemble any of the ordinary 
stone implements with which I am acquainted." 

It is obvious that a great, if not undue stress is laid on this dissimilarity 
between the flint implements of the Drift and those of the more recent Stone 
Period, with the assumed Celtic origin of its flait and stone manufactures. Nor 
is this wonderful when the vast interval is considered which the geologist now 
assumes to intervene between the production of the two classes of works. Sir 
Charles Lyell, when addressing the Geological Section of the British Associa- 
tion, remarked, with cautious yet suggestive force, in reference to the secular 
phenomena indicated by the fluviatile gravel of Abbeville and Amiens : 

" To explain these changes, I should infer considerable oscillations in the level 
of the land in that part of France ; slow movements of upheaval and subsidence, 
deranging, but not wholly displacing, the course of the ancient river. Lastly, 
the disappearance of the elephant, rlnnocerus, and other genera of quadrupeds 
now foreign to Europe, implies, in like manner, a vast lapse of ages, separaimg 
the era in which the fossil implements were framed and that of the invasion of 
Gaul by the Romans." 

If man's place in nature, and his true relation to the inferior orders of being 
be still undetermined, and the possibility of his development from the anthropoid 
apes or others of the lower animals be admitted, then the first indices of animal 
instinct passing into inventive mechanical skill will j)0ssess a peculiar significance. 
Whether, moreover, Ave accept or reject the unwelcome theory of the structural 
interval between the organization of man and the lower animals being the prac- 
tical element of difference, and one sufficiently slight to require only an adequate 
lapse of time for its being bridged over by secondary causes in constant operation 
throughout the organic world: the comparison between the arts of ages so remote as 
those of the Drift Folk, and the British Celt of the Roman period, or the Amer- 
ican Indian of the nineteenth century cannot be devoid of interest. But America 
also has her ancient, and possibly her drift flint-implements ; and as the analogies 
between the works of her modern aborigines and those of the later European 
Stone Period are obvious and remarkable, though separated by at least two 
thousand years ; a comparison of the oLdest traces of human art on the two 
hemispheres may involve very significant diisclosures in reference to the general 
question of the development of the mechanical and artistic fticulties of man. 

So impressed was my mind with the striking bearing of the supposed fact 
reiterated by Prestwich, Evans, Lyell, and others, of the uniformity of char- 
acter, amounting to specific typical forms, and of the massive rudeness of the 
works of art of the drift, that it was with some sense of disappointment I re- 
ceived a flint instrument believed to have been recovered from the American 
drift, and found it fail in any correspondence with the post-pliocene manufac- 
tures of Europe. The characteristics assigned to the formei", separate their era, 
to all appearance, by a diversity of the mental character expressed in them, as 
works of human art, from the nearly uniform fjint and stone implements of the 
most ancient European stone period seemingly of historic times and existing 
savage nations. The confirmation it seems to lend to the idea of a condition 
of human intellect more rudimentary than that of the rudest savage hitherto 
known gives importance to the data on which such an influence rests. In the 
summer of 1852 I learned from ih-. William Hay, architect, of a flint implement 
recovered by a gold-digger from the drift near Pike's peak, Kansas Territory, 
and immediately instituted inquiries about it, not without some expectation of 
lindlng in it a repetition of one of the large typical forms of Abbeville or 
Amiens. In this, however, I was disappointed. The interesting object which 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



297 




is now ill my own possession is a broken knife or Luice-liead, measuring in its 
present imperfect condition only 2 J inches. I was placed in communication with 
the discoverer by Mr. Hay, in whose employment he had formerly been ; and 
on my applying to him for information as to the precise circumstances under 
which the flint implement had been discovered, he presented it to me, along with 
the desired statement. Mr. P. A. Scott is an intelligent Canadian, formerly in 
business as a carpenter at Cobourg, Upper Canada, who, in 1850, joined a party 
about to start on an expedition to the gold diggings ; and while engaged in the 
search for gold at the Grinnell Leads, in Kans# Territory, he found the imperfect 

flint implement, figured here, the size 
of the original, at a depth of upward 
of fourteen feet from the surface. 
The spot where this discovery was 
made is in the Blue Range of the 
liocky mountains, in an alluvial bot- 
tom, and distant several hundred feet 
from a small stream called Clear creek. 
A shaft was sunk, passing through 
four feet of rich, black soil, and, below 
this, through upward of ten feet of 
gravel, reddish clay, and rounded 
quartz. Here the flint implement was found, and its unmistakable artificial 
form so impressed the finder that he secured it, and carefully noted the depth 
and the character of the strata under which it lay. Though the actual object 
corresponds more to the small and slighter productions of the modern Indian 
tool-maker than to the rude and massive drift implement which I had conjured 
up in fancy, it has no claims to more artistic skill. Under any circumstances it 
would be rash to build up comprehensive theories on a solitary case like this ; 
but, though small, and otherwise dissimilar to the drift implements of France 
and England, there is nothing in the workmanship of the Grinnell Leads flint to 
suggest its origin at a later period ; for it is only chipped into form with such rudo 
skill as is fully equalled by that displayed in the former ; and may, therefore, 
very well accord with the idea of the most rudimentary traces of art being alone 
discoverable in the manufactures of the Drift Period. 

The growing favor with which this opinion is entertained is illustrated by 
the attempts made by Mr. Worsaa? and other Danish antiquaries to separate 
that Stone Period of prehistoric times, which they have hitherto considered in 
connexion with the cromlechs, banta-steins, and other primitive monuments of 
Sweden and Denmark, from another and greatly more remote era, or Flint 
Period, to which the recently explored hjockkenmoaddingcr , or shell mounds and 
coast refuse-heaps, are assigned. In these, numerous flint wedged and other 
implements of the rudest workmanship have been found ; bvit, along with them, 
some rare specimens of well wrought and highly finished flint tools or weapons 
have occurred. These, indeed, some would still regard as stray relics of a later 
date, like the Indian weapons and sepulchral remains superficially deposited in 
file ancient mounds of the Mississippi valley. But Professor Steenstrup, who 
has been associated with Professors Forchhammer and VVorsaai since 1847, in 
the exploration of the hjockkenmcaddingcr, peat bogs, and other formations 
whick enclose the ancient traces of man, entirely rejects the idea of any interval 
of separation between the Kjockkenmoedding Period, and the earliest and rudest 
stage of the Danish Stone Age. If, therefore, the two constitute one era, the 
purely exceptional character of all but the coarsely-shaped flint implements in 
the kjockkenmoedding tends to suggest the probability of further research lead- 
ing to the discovery in the drift also of some of the more delicate and carefully 
finished flint tools. 

In reality, however, the difference is more one of material than Avorkmanship. 



298 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

A certain class of flint axes arc found, especially in Denmark, not onlj g:ound 
to an edge, but with the Avhole surface polished ; but these are comparatively 
uncommon on the continent, and are only rarely found in Biitaiu. The 
natunil fracture of flint brings it nearly to the required shape for knives, arrow 
and lance heads, and axe-blades, without grinding. But it is otherwise with the 
amorphous trap, gi-anite, and other hard rocks wrought into stone axes, &c. 
These had to be rubbed and ground into shape, and some of them are found 
polished with elaborate symmetry and finish. If stone implements should 
hereafter be recovered under ciipumstances indicative of a corresponding an- 
tiquity with the flint manufactures of the drift, the more intractable material 
will be found to have compelled the primitive Avorkman to employ some amount 
of grinding and polishing on his rudest weapons. 

The varied ethnological collections of the Smithsonian Institution, when com- 
pletely arranged, will be found to illustrate many interesting points of compara- 
tive ethnic art. The examination of the Indian implements already displayed 
in its cabinets has now sufficed to recall to mind a flint implement in my own 
collection, the significance of which, as a possible relic of older races than the 
Red Indians of this continent, was overlooked by me at the time I acquired it. 
When passing, some years since, through the village of Lewiston, in the State 
of New York, I purchased from an itinerant vender of Indian bead-work some 
flint implements, chiefly arrow-heads, such as are constantly jiloughed up on 
the sites of Indian settlements ; but along with those was a large disc, or 
spear-head, of dark flint, 4'| inches long by 3.J broad, which I was informed had 
been procured in the neighborhood in the process of sinking a well. Regarding 
it merely as an unusually large specimen of an Indian flint spear-head, I de- 
posited it among other relics of the same class without further inquiry. But 
my visit to Washington has afforded me an opportunity of examining some 
similar discs of flint or hornstone, found under circumstances which give a new 
interest to the Lewiston implement. In one of the cabinets of the Smithsonian 
collection two large flint implements are deposited, which attracted my eye from 
their apparent correspondence to the oval or almond-shaped implements of the 
drift, made with a fractured cutting edge all around. A label attached to one 
of them is as follows : " Thirty of these found, at the depth of eight feet, under a 
peaty formatiori, near Racine, Wisconsin ; deposited by P. R. Hoy." Dr. 
Hoy is a contributor to various departments of the Smithsonian collections ; 
and his name also repeatedly occurs in Lapham's " Antiquities of Wiscon- 
sm, Surveyed and Described." At page eight of that work the following state- 
ment is made on his authority : "Some workmen, in digging a ditch through 
a peat swamp, near Racine, found a deposit of discs of hornstone, about 
thirty in number. They were immediately on the clay at the bottom of 
the peat, about two feet and a half below the surface. Some of the 
discs were quite regular. They vary from half a pound to a pound in 
weight." Notwithstanding the discrepancy between the two accounts of the 
depth at which the implements were tbuud, both statements probably refer to 
the same discovery.* The larger of the two specimens measures 5^ inches 

* In answer to a letter addressed to Dr. Hoy, on this subject, Mr. Albert H. Hoy writes, 
January 25, 1803 : "Dr. Hoy desires me to state that the fiiat discs were found in dig- 
ging a ditch through the bottom of a ravine near this city, (Racine. Wisconsin,) formerly 
the bed of Root river, which enters the lake at this point. The doctor thinks tliesa liints 
had been transported from some point and buried here by the Indians, as a sort of cache, 
in order that they might readily find them when they wished to construct arrow-heads, 
spear-points, and the h'ke. From the nature of the peaty formation, the doctor thinks 
that the flints were deposited after the formation of the surrounding soil. It may be that 
the Indians purposely buried the flints in this moist situation that they might remain 
damp, as it is known tha,t in this state flint is the easier worked or chipped, Some thirty 
more were found at one point, and had the appearanca of being deposited in a pile." As 
no correction is made of the later depth assigned to their discovery, I presume it to be 
correct. 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 209 

long by o^ broad, and the other is only a little smaller. The discovery of sim- 
ilar heaps of rudely formed discs of flint has been repeatedly made under 
circumstances much more obviously indicating their being placed for some 
specific purpose in the deposit from whence they were recovered ; and the 
immense numbers of them occasionally heaped or systematically arranged on a 
single spot is a fact which may have ^ome significance in illustration of the 
numerous flint implements recovered from the drift on very limited areas. 

The researches of Messrs. Squier and Davis, in the mounds of Ohio, have 
revealed the fact that large deposits of such discs repeatedly occur in those 
ancient earthworks ; and in a manuscript account of researches carried on more 
recently in the same locality, which I have had an opportunity of examining 
while at Washington, the following narrative occurs : " On the south side of the 
confluence of the Racoon and the south fork of the Licking river, at McMullen's 
inn, is a square earthwork, with a small circle attached to the west side. Some 
workmen, digging for clay in a brick-yard occupying part of the square, dis- 
covered a nest of 198 flint arrrow-hcads about two feet below the surface, all 
nicely set up on end, the smaller ones Avithiu and the larger without. Some 
were as large as a man's open hand, all neatly made, and of the same pattern." 
To this the explorer adds, as a singular fact : " All the arrow-heads I have 
obtained from out the mounds, or in similar deposits, are of this character or 
pattern." 

Some uncertainty as to the occurrence of the modern forms of flint arrow- 
heads among the genuine deposits of the mound-builders of the Ohio valley is 
occasioned by the practice of interment, by the forest tribes, superficially iu the 
ancient mounds. Certain it is, however, that in those ftiounds a class of lai'gely 
and rudely formed discs, or spear-heads, of flint, quartz, and manganese garnet 
is common. Others are chipped into regular form with minute care, but are 
also of unusually large size, and, like the ruder discs, suggest the idea of their 
purposed use, without the addition of any shaft or handle. Messrs. Davis and 
Squier remark, when describing the contents of the altar mounds explored by 
them : " Some of the altar or sacrificial mounds have the deposits within them 
almost CT^tirely made up of finished arrow and spear points, intermixed with 
masses of the manufactured material. From one altar were taken several 
bushels of finely worked lance-heads of milky quartz, nearly all of which had 
been broken up by the action of fire. In another mound, an excavation six feet 
long and four broad, disclosed upwards of 600 spear-heads or discs of hornstone, 
nidely blocked out, and the deposit extended indefinitely on every side. The 
originals are about six inches long and four broad, and weigh not far from two 
pounds each."* The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 11) illustrates the original 
text, and Avill sufiice to show the prevailing forms of the rude implements ; but 
it fails to suggest to the mind their great size, and clumsy, ponderous character, 
so nearly approaching, in both respects, to those of the European drift. 

Some of the specimens are described as nearly round, but most of them are 
rudely heart-shaped. With them were found also several large nodules of simi- 
lar material, from which portions had been chipped off. Estimating the whole 
amount from the number exposed within the limits to which the explorer's ex- 
cavations extended, they sujiposed there must have been nearly four thousand 
altogether, and possibly a still greater number, under the single mound. 

The peculiar circumstances of the deposit at Racine, as described by Dr. 
Hoy, where many discs were found lying on the clay with the accumulated 
peat formation above them, would, iu some localities, suggest an antiquity 
measurable by the slow formation of the peat above them ; but the extensive 
traces of an ancient population, and especially the numerous earthworks in the 
State of Wisconsin, suggest the possibility of the collection of stone imple- 

- Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi valley, p. 213. 



300 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 



ments having been buried where they were found. Of the purposed interment 
of those in the Ohio mounds no doubt can be entertained ; and though a great 
antiquity has been ascribed to the mounds, in comparison with any works of the 
known races of the continent, no one will dream of assigning them to a period 
bearing any relation to that of the Drift Folk of Abbeville or Hoxne. Here, 
then, we find illustrations of one of the commonest types of the drift imple- 
ments deposited in vast numbers under the earthworks of this remarkable pre- 
historic race of the New "World, and found even in its regular sepulchral mounds. 
If one of the Racine discs in the Smithsonian collection be compared with the 
example from 




Fiff. IL — LEWiSTON FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 



the valley of the Somme, selected by Mr. Evans to illustrate his third class of 
oval or almond-shaped implements,* they will be seen to correspond so closely 
that either might be selected as the illustration of the type. 



« ArchiBologia, vol. xxxvlii, pi. sv, fiy 3 



PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY 



301 



The Lewiston implement is more irregular and ruder in workmanship. It 
has been reduced to the required shape by comparatively few strokes, and ap- 
pears to have been broken off at the one side by an ill-directed blow of tin; 
Btone hammer by Avhich it may be presumed to have been wrought. The oppo- 
site and only complete edge is cliipped and fractured as if by frequent use. It 
is to be regretted that more minute information as to the precise locality and 
circumstances of this discovery has not been secured. But it may not yet bo 
too late for the recovery of the desired data. As an undoubted relic of the 
American drift, it would afford startling evidence of a minute conformity be- 
tween the most ancient traces of human art in both hemispheres. Even as, 
more probably, a stray relic of the ancient monuments ©f AVisconsin, or the 
Ohio valley, it possesses considerable interest to the American archajologist, 
thus found so far from the ascertained seats of the extinct Mound-Builders. But 
it is probable that the implements of the modern Indians include those of the 
very same form. In the same cabinet of the Smithsonian collection, which in- 
cludes the Wisconsin examples referred to, is a roughly shaped disc, figured 
here, (Fig. 12) brought with other remains from Texas. It measures 40- inches 
in length, and, as is shown by the accompanying illustration, it repeats one of 
the commonest types of the smaller drift implements, and also corresponds to 
them in its irregularly fractured edge and rongli workmanship. 




Fig. 12. — TEXAS FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 

The subject selected for illustration here, from among many which I 
brought inider the notice of my audience, though apparently trifling, has 
a certain significance Avhich may justify its reproduction. A comparison 
of the ordinary flint and stone implements, and of the rude pottery still manu- 
factured by the Red Indians of the American forests and prairies, with examples 
recovered from ancient sepulchres of Britain and the north of Eurcpe, dating 
before the Cb.ristian era, proves a correspondence in many cases so striking as 
to admit of the one being substituted for the other without detection by the 
most experienced archreologist. To prove, therefore, that in the drift under- 
neath the Gaulish and Roman graves of Abbeville and Amiens, or the British 
and Saxon barrows of Suffolk, lie imbedded the rude flint implements of an 
elder perioc?, essentially differing from both, furnishes indications as strikingly 



302 PHYSICAL ETHNOLOGY. 

suggestive of a difPerent condition of life, and a diverse stage in the progress of 
the human race, as the bones of the mastodon or the JJrsus speloeus which are 
imbedded in the same stratified gravel. That the flint-tools have certain char- 
acteristics in form and workmanship is unquestionable. Yet the difl'erence 
between them and more modern implements of the same material has been 
exaggerated ; and the results indicated by this comparison of flint implements 
of the New "World with those of the European drift is to shoAV, I think, that 
the diversity between the two is not of an essential or very important nature, 
and by no means such as would indicate any relative stages in a progressive 
development which, in the sober estimation of some of our most cautious geolo- 
gists, embraces a period scarcely measurable by centuries. Their present specu- 
lations would render the interval between the Flint- worker of the British barrows 
of ante-Christian centuries and the modern Indian too insignificant to be taken 
into account, in relation to an age when man is assumed to have made his advent 
in Britain while it formed a part of the continent of Europe, and when the 
glaciers of the Scottish Grampians still contributed their Arctic floods to the 
valleys of southern England and France. But also some of the facts indicated 
here warn us that we have still to anticipate many new disclosures not less 
striking and unlooked for than those of the European drift ; and among those 
is the possible discovery of America's drift-period, comprehending the traces of 
human art and the evidences of the presence of man in this New World, as it 
is called, at periods compared with which that of its Mound-Builders is modern, 
and even of its fancied Phoenician colonizers but of yesterday. 



AN INTRODUCTORY LECTURE 

TO THE 

STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY, 

DELIVERED AT THE 

ACADEMY OF LAUSANNE, SWITZERLAND, ON THE 29th OF NOVEMBER, 1860, 

BY A. MORLOT. 
[Translated by the author for the Smithsonian Institution.] 



" WTiat we know is very little, but what we do not know is immense." — LaplaCE. 



[Certain subjects arc more developed in this paper than they have been in the lecture itself. 
This is especially the case with the delta of the Tiuiere. Such details, more interesting for the 
geologist, may be omitted by the general reader, -who will find it easy to take in merely 
the results. ] 

The process of reasoning, from tlic known to the unknown, from what is seen 
to wLiat is not seen, is practiced by every one. When the Arab of the desert 
descries at a distance an eagle soaring in a peculiar manner, he exclaims, "A 
lion!" He knows that the eagle is waiting to pounce upon the prey which a 
lion is about to quit. 

In fact, every one is more or less in the habit of forming an opinion by in- 
direct means. Thus, a man's character is judged of by his dress, his language, 
and even by his handwriting. 

It is, in reality, by the same means that a lawyer arrives at his conclusions, 
and the savant — one ought rather to say the student, for the savant is, after all, 
but a perpetual student — elaborates his doctrines. He begins by observation, 
which he combines Avith experiment, when he can modify the circumstances 
under which the phenomena observed are produced ; he then classifies, co- 
ordinates, compares his first results, in order to understand them more fully ; 
and, finally, ascending from effects to causes, he arrives at the great principles, 
the laws which govern nature. Observation, combined, when feasible, with 
experiment, comparison, and finally, induction : this process is the method of 
which the result is science. 

One of the most striking examples of the application of this jirocess is fur- 
nished by geology, which has reconstructed the history of our planet be- 
fore the appearance of the human race. But why should we stop at the mo- 
ment when for the first time an intelligent being appeared on this earth, 
which had hitherto been solely peopled by animals, endowed with instinct 
alone? Is not man also part of nature, and does not he, too, belong to the vast 
plan of creation? 

The objection might be raised that for the human periods Ave have the trans- 
mission of facts by Avritten records, Avhich is history proper, and by oral tradi- 



304 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

tion. But, before the invention of writing, ■vvlicre was history ? and before the 
development of language, where was tradition ? 

The origin of writing is not obscure, showing that the beginning of history 
does not date very far back. The origin of spoken language is far more an- 
cient, and its study teaches us that it was developed slowly and gradually, 
starting from a rudimentary beginning, which necessarily corresponded to an 
equally rudimentary state of the human intelligence. This is sufficient to 
prove that oral tradition cannot go back to the origin of our species any more 
than the memory of an individual can revert to the moment of his birth. 

Evidently, humanity has passed through an early phase which has left no 
remembrance of itself. How long did these forgotten times last? when did 
tradition begin 1 at what epoch did history, properly so called, take its rise 1 
This is difficult to determine. 

For southern Europe, history, ascertained chronologically, goes back sev- 
eral centuries before the Christian era. For that part of Europe situated to 
the north of the Alps, history begins with the Roman invasion, which is nearly 
coeval with the Christian era. We have a few historical facts and traditions 
of a somewhat older date, but they are not of great importance in the researches 
we are about to imdertake, and we may pass them over in silence. 

It is these prc-historical and pre-traditional times which we call High An- 
TiciUiTY, and which are to form here the object of our study. And we shall 
only consider Europe north of the Alps, closing our researches about the time 
of the Christian era. Our task is thus precisely limited, and this circumstance 
should not be lost sight of in the sequel. 

Since the memory of the long period in question is all but lost, we must 
seek for other materials whercAvith to supply its place. We stand here pre- 
cisely in the same position as the geologist who reconstructs the history of our 
planet. We shall, therefore, borrow his method, since our mode of proceeding 
must necessarily present a strong analogy with his. The materials of the geol- 
ogists are chiefly the remains of animal and vegetable creations, the fossils 
buried in the strata which form a great part of our continents. Instead of 
fossils, we have the remains of human labor and industry. They are to us as a 
mirror in which is reflected the image of their authors, of their life, and of their 
entire civilization. For the laborer is known by his work. If the geologist 
can restore an animal from a single bone, why should we not, with a fragment 
of a broken pot reconstruct the entire vase, and from the vase rise to its makci 1 
The interval is not so very wide from a mere potsherd to man ; for every- 
thing is closely linked together in the economy of human life as it is in nature. 
The primitive inhabitant of our country has long ago disappeared ; his 
mortal remains have returned to dust ; his tales of war are forgotten, as well 
as his lays of love ; the very name of his tribe, of his race, is lost ; but the 
Avork of his hands yet subsists and enables us to revivify our ancestors ; to see 
how they lived and fared ; to observe their domestic economy ; to follow their 
commercial traces ; to join them in their hunting parties and in their martial 
forays ; to surprise them at some of their religious ceremonies, and to contem- 
plate their funeral rites. Thus we transport ourselves into by-gone ages, just 
as the geologist has rendered himself the witness of the development of our 
planet. This is what we mean by the study of high antiquity or of primitive 
archeology. 

It is evident that these researches deal only with material objects, but it is 
to vivify and compel them to speak, as the fossils of the geologist have been 
made to give forth a voice. Nature yields her answers when she is properly 
questioned. But we must not ask of the times when written language wae 
yet unborn to furnish us with proper names ; these are completely lost, -while 
they play an important part in ordinary history. Our studies can only em- 
brace the development of civilization, without considering speech. We can, in 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 305 

a certain measure, sec our ancestors, but we cannot hear them. We must be 
content to gaze at them as at so many shadows. 

It might be objected that to reconstruct the past by means of the remains of 
industry we ouglit to have an abundance of materials such as are but rarely 
found. Yet fossils were formerly considered quite as scarce, though now mu- 
seums everywhere abound with them. True it is that time has rarely spared 
any of those productions of primitive*art which rise above the surface of the 
soil, excepting here, and there certain monuments formed of large blocks of 
stone and certain earthworks. This is especially the case in the countries 
which we are about to consider, and where the use of masonry, cemented with 
mortar, dates no further back than the time of the Romans. But, let us re- 
member that numerous generations have succeeded each other, that they have 
strewn the ground with the remains of their industry, and have themselves de- 
scended to the dust, carrying with them into their graves many of the objects 
upon which they placed the highest value ; we shall then understand that the 
vegetable mould must be rich in documents of the past, like the fossiliferou? 
strata of the geologist, and that these documents only require to be skilfully 
sought for and properly interpreted. The ground that we tread is the grave of 
the past, a vast grave, always open, and which is to receive us also, with the 
remains of our industry and for the benefit of future antiquarians.* 

It is also true that the preservation of antiquities is very partial, the fleshy 
a.nd vegetable substances having generally disappeared, so that it is rare when 
anything but glass, metal, or pottery has resisted the action of time. But it 
is the same with the remains of the ancient organic creations ; for it is chiefly 
only the solid parts of plants and animals which the strata of our globe con- 
tain as fossils. And yet the geologist has turned them to good account. The 
task of the antiquary is not more difficult. 

In certain cases the preservation of antique remains is more perfect. Thus, 
when imbedded in peat, or in the mud at the bottom of lakes, vegetable matter. 
such as seeds, wood, and even remnants of woven stuffs, have been found pre- 
served. When the substance was charred by the action of fire, before falling 
into the lake, it became unalterable. Thanks to this circumstance, we have 
discovered in Switzerland bread and even ears of corn several thousand years 
old.t Far from being scarce, the records of by-gone ages will become more 
abundant as they are more carefully sought for, and the materials for recon- 
structing the past of the human race will not be more difficult to obtain than 
tJiose by means of which the geologist writes the history of our earth. 

It might seem, from what has been said, that in forming collections of an- 
tiquities, and in studying them rationally, the outlines of the science would 
have been soon traced, and its fundamental principles, which are always sim- 
ple, readily arrived at. It is long since the collection of antiquities was com- 
menced, but they were considered, as were at first fossils and other objects of 
natural history, as mere curiosities, even when they >vere not turned into talis- 
mans and amulets. Again, when their meaning Avas sought, sterile and inter- 
minable controversies were carried on, as is always the case at the dawn of a 
new science, so apt is human reason to lose its way. 

A prejudice which has been and is still a gi-eat hindrance to progress is the 
belief that everything skilfully wrouglit must be of Roman origin, especially 
objects in metal, the more ordinary remains being neglected and overlooked. 

* It would be rendering a great service to future science if the date were inscribed 
wherever it i.s po.ssible to mark it, particularly on glass and metal, but more especially upon 
«nockory. 

t See in the Memoirs of the Society of Antiquaries, at Ziirich, for 1854, 1858, 1860, 1861, . 
and 1863, the remarkuble reports by Dr. F. Keller, of Zurich, on the ancient pilewoiks of 
Switzerland. Every memoir published by the society can be had singly on applying to tie 
bookseller. 

20 s 



306 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

Hciico tlio false conclu.'iion tliut befon; the Roman invasion the north of En- 
rop(; was only inhabited by hordes of barbarians. Geology passed through a 
similar stage when all fossils Aver(^ considered as vestiges of the deluge. Tho 
customary niisconce])tions prevailed also in the south of Sweden and in Den- 
mark, countries which abound in antiquities, such as flint axes. ^J'hese wcro 
thought by some to be implements used for sacrificial purposes during tho 
time of heathenism ; others even btdicv^'d them to be thunderbolts, an origin 
wliich has also been attributed to the fossils called belemnijes. 

The prevalence of such fancies may give an idea of the state of the question 
when Mr. Thomsen, director of the archaeological museum, at Copenhagen, 
and Mr. Nilsson. professor of zoology at the University of Lmid, in Sweden, 
began their labors. These illustrious northern antiquaries, too practical to 
enter into the controversies then in vogue, began to compare the antiquities 
of tlieir own country with the industrial productions of the more or less savage 
trib(;s of Australasia and other i-egions of the globe. 'J'his comparison at once 
brought to light a remarkable analogy between the flint instruments of tho 
north of Europe and tlu; implements of existing races not yet acquainted with 
the use of metals. MM. Thomsen and Nilsson observed at the same time that 
a whoh; series of characteristic tombs contained, besides the skeletons and some 
rude pottery, implements of stone only, without any trace of metal. All this 
suggested, very naturally, that the lirst inhabitants of the north of Europe had 
not been acquainted with the use of metals, and bore no little resemblance to 
the savages of the j)resent day, at least in what concerns the habits of every-day 
life. Another class ot tombs contained cutting implements and arms of metal, 
axes, knives, swords, spear-heads ; not, however, of iron or steel, but of bronze, 
a mixture; of copper and tin. Had iron been known, it would certainly havo 
been used in preference. It follows that bronze was known and employed be- 
fore iron. Nor can there be a doubt that what iron is now, and has long been, 
for purposes of industry and the requirements of civilization in general, bionzo 
onc(; was, and stone, chiefly flint, previous to bronze. 

Thus was established the plain and practical distinction of the successive 
ages : First, that of Ulunt, next that of Bronze, and lastly thiit of lion. This 
classilication, wiiich recalls Werner's division of tlie, geological formations into 
primitive, secondary, and tertiary, was introduced about thirty years ago.* 
At 111 St applied only in Scandina.via, it spread by degrees to Germany, England, 
and Switzerland, and is beginning to penetrate, by Piedmont, into Italy,! 
rendering everywhere essential service. 

Attempts are now made to subdivide these three great phases in the devel- 
opment of civilization. Some antiquaries, such as Mr. Worsaae, think they 
can, fiom the quality oi the objects and the mode of the sepulchral constructions, 
distinguish a first and a second sub-period in the stone age. The learni'd 
exphner of Mecklenburg, Dr. Lisch, at Schwerin, thinks that during the first 
centuries of the bronze age the casting in metal of pieces hollow inside was 
unknown, and that such pieces indicate a considerable progress, characterizing 
the latter times of the bronze age.f Jn Denmark and in Switzerland an 

* Tho northern sivvants did not publish Ihcir results till several years after having 
obtained them. Mr. Thomsen printed a paper in A'o»y/(s.A: Tidsskrifi for Old Kyndifrhea, 
18;5'J, and a very pood general treatise, Lcdctraad til Nordisk Old Kijndi<rli(d, Kjoehenhavn, 
18;5(), ut which there appealed a Geruiaii edition at Ilauilmrpf in 18;>7, and an English edilion. 
" A Guide to Northern Antiquities, London, 18:>7." Prolessor Nilsson ])ublished a work 
on the priinitivi- inhabitants of Scandinavia : Scnndinariska iwrdcns urinvonarc, Lund, 1838, 
184:5. This latter work is a real masterpiece, worthy of ranking with G. Cuvicr's immortal 
publications, and a second edition in Swedish and in German is aboirt to appear. 

t See U. Gastaldi's valuable paper, Nuoci ccnnisuiili ogi^ctti di alta antichitd, trovati 
ncllc lorhicrc c neUv, marturra drIV Italia: Torino. I8G"i. These researches have been taken 
up and arc continued with great talent by Professor 15. Strobel, assisted by L. Pigorini, 
both at Parma. 

X The author, who has carctiilly studied the museum at Schweriu, the capital of Meck- 
lenburg, does not think this subdivision suflBciently well established. 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 307 

early prc-historical iron a<^o is also bof^iniiintr to bo, rocognized and to bo distin- 
guished from a later iron age, belonging to th(! Iiistoriciil era. It was necessary to 
begin by establishing a small number of distinctly characterized periods, as 
had been done also in geology. 15ut it is becoming evident, in antiquity as in 
geology, that there have been gradual transitions from one period to th(; next. 
Thus, thougb the presence of cutting implements of bronze generally excludes 
the simultaneous presence of iron, there are tombs, like those at llallstatt, in 
the Austrian alps, which contain the bronze sword, together Avith the knife or 
the axe of iron. ])Ut in this case an attentive study will teach us that the 
burials belong to a time of transition from bronze to iron. At Hallstatt the 
transition has evidently taken place slowly and gradually. In other instances 
it seems almost to have been brought about violently, perhaps by foreign 
invasion, or by internal revolution, presenting a certain analogy with the 
geological convulsions which have so often established a break between imme- 
diately overlying sti-ata. 

We have seen how the foundations of our science have been laid. Some 
of its chief principles have been disclosed by the historical sketch, but we 
must consider them more closely and dwell with greater detail on our method 
of research. 

If we seek to understand the past of our species, we must evidently begin 
by ascertaining its present state; we must study man, not only in civilized 
countries, but wherever he has settled. Hence we see that E'rii.\'OLO(iV is to 
be taken for our starting point, and that it contributed largely in guiding the 
northern antiquaries into the right path has already been already shown. 
Ethnology is for us what physical geography is for the geologist. We can 
only understand the former state of our globe by studying its present condition 
and by following the changes which take place on its surface, as Lyell, the 
rcfoimer of geology, has so well taught. 

Every nation has always had some special mode of manufacturing and of 
ornamenting its productions, and, moreover, its peculiar habits and customs, 
impressing a distinctive stamp upon its art and industry. This constitutes 
what is called style. In J]urope, north of the Alps, the; style was generally 
pretty uniform during a given era, but it varied continually from one age to 
another, just as the fossil species have changed their types from one geological 
period to the next. The appearance of an object will thus often suffice to 
determine its age and the relative date of its interment, as we can determine 
the relative age of a geological stratum by a singles fossil, when this is charac- 
teristic. In the north of Europe bronze bracelets were worn during the entire 
bronze age and during the early iron age ; but their style is very different, the 
fashion having changed, l^hanks to this circumstance, one is rarely embar- 
rassed in determining the age of a bronze bracel(!t, or of a mere fragment of 
such a bracelet. 

It is not enough that when making field researches we accumulate antiqui- 
ties m(!rely for the purpose of forming a collection of them. It is of the 
greatest interest to observe the association of the objects, in order to decide 
which are of the same date, just as it is important to assort together the fossils 
found in the same stratum. Taken separately, the fossils, like isolated words, 
would not in themselves be of so much importance, whilst their concourse, 
like a logical phrase, may throw a vivid light on a whole era of the geological 
past. In this respect, tombs are of great value, for the series of objects which 
may be contained in one and the same grave; harmonize, and are necessarily of 
the same date. Tsor must we forget that the very mode of burial has varied 
from one age to another — a circumstance which gives still greater value to the 
examination of this species of monument. We have already seen how much 
the study of the tombs contributed to guide the northern antiquaries into the 
right path. 



308 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

The question of the special position [gisanent in French, laderung in Ger- 
man) in which objects are found, so important in geology, is not less so when 
we consider the traces of the human past. The peculiar position of antiquities in 
the various places where they are met with has often a special signification. 
Thus, to return to the graves, their interior, carefully examined, will often 
reveal the funeral customs and may furnish us with notions respecting the 
religious ideas of the time. Sometimes, and it is found to be generally the 
most ancient mode, the body was bent up, with the knees joining the chin, as 
if to occupy the least possible space. Later the dead Avere usually burnt, 
which might lead us to suspect the worship of fire. Then again the body has 
been found stretched out horizontally. When several contemporary skeletons 
are discovered in the same mound, their relative positions may lead us to infer 
the practice of human sacrifices. In this case the victims will generally be 
found lying scattered about irregularly, as if they had been thrown in carelessly, 
while the centre of the grave has been reserved for the individual in whose 
honor the funeral rites and sacrifices were instituted. By observing the posi- 
tion of some broken pebbles and of fragments of pottery in the earth covering 
certain ancient tombs. Dr. Keller, of Zurich, inferred the custom of casting in 
these objects while raising the mound — a practice which a curious passage 
from Shakspeare, (Hamlet, act V, scene I,) seems to confirm.* It would 
appear that the funeral was occasionally combined with a feast on the spot, 
and that the earthenware which had been used was broken up and scattered 
over the grave. At other times the entire vases, or such as have been only 
crushed by the pressure of the earth, seem to have contained food for the 
departed, with Avhom were also frequently interred his trinkets, his arms, the 
emblems of his trade, sometimes his dog, his horse, and even his wife. 

The question of superposition is connected with the preceding. It plays 
here as essential a part as in geology, which it furnishes with the chronological 
succession of the different strata, since, evidently, an overlying bed must be 
more recent than the one beneath it. The antiqiiary meets rarely with series 
of strata as regularly superimposed as those of the geologist. The case would 
be more frequent could we examine the deposits which are formed at the 
bottom of lakes and seas. But, then, the geologist would have taken the 
advance, and would himself have retraced the history of the human race, leav- 
ing but scanty gleanings for the succeeding explorers. The materials of the 
antiquarian are iisually buried in a thin layer of vegetable mould, though even 
that is sometimes wanting. There are, however, on terra firma, cases of super- 
position of deposits containing human relics. They are of great value, for 
they establish more surely than could be done in any other manner the chro- 
nological succession of the diff'erent ages. In fact, every distinction between 
ages should invariably rest upon some direct observation of superposition. 
We have seen how the northern antiquaries arrived at their three ages of 
stone, bronze, and iron. Their results are satisfactory, but still, having been 
obtained somewhat indirectly, they are even yet occasionally disputed. Such 
facts, however, as the following are of a nature to settle the question defini- 
tively : 

Graves of the early iron age, established upon sepulchral mounds of the 
bronze age, and, in other cases, interments of the bronze age upon the site of 
those belonging to the stone age, have been accidentally noticed in Denmark 
and in the adjoining duchy of Mecklenburg. But the most complete example 
of such superpositions has been observed, and carefully, too, at Waldhausen, 
near Lubeck. One of those ancient tombs existed there, in the shape of a 
mound or barrow, 13 feet high and 161 feet in circumference. It was levelled 
to the ground to insure a thorough examination, as serious research requires. 

* Memoirs of the Society of Antiquaries at Zurich. Vol. Ill, part V, ] 845. 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 309 

Just beneath the surface was discovered an ancient grave, to all appearance of 
pre-historical date. It was occupied by a skeleton, with fragments of coarse 
pottery and with a piece of iron, rusted away. Lower down, at about midway 
the depth of the mound, were three tombs of the bronze age. They consisted 
of small chests or cells of stone-work without mortar, and containing each a 
cinerary urn lilled with fragments of calcined bones, mingled with various ob- 
jects of bronze, such as neck-collars, hair-pins, and a knife. Finally, at the 
bottom of the mound was discovered a sepulchral chamber of the stone age, 
formed of large unhewn boulders, and containing coarse pottery and flint 
hatchets. Evidently the first inhabitants of the country had constructed, upon 
the natural soil, a tomb, according to the custom of the times, covering it over 
with earth. Upon this elevation some interments of the bronze age had taken 
place, and another covering of earth was added, thus doubling the height of 
the mound. Finally, in the early iron age, a corpse had been buried by dig- 
ging a tomb on the summit of the hillock.* 

Thus, what at first sight appears to be only one tomb, may furnish antiqui- 
ties belonging to different periods, and it is of the utmost importance to carry 
on the researches so as carefully to determine the exact relative position of 
whatever presents itself, if serious mistakes are to be avoided. MM. Castan 
and Delacroix, at Besan^on, surprised to And a mixture of objects which they 
thought belonged to different periods, succeeded in distinguishing, in the same 
mound of only slight elevation, burials of the Roman time, established over 
Gallic entombments of the early iron age, proving thus an indigenous civiliza- 
tion, based on the use of iron, and previous to the Roman invasion.! 

But the incident of mere superposition, notwithstanding its value, can only 
furnish notions of relative chronology, expressed like those of geology, which 
knows of no absolute dates in numbers of years or of centuries. And yet we 
could wish to know when each of the three ages of stone, of bronze, and of 
iron began, and how long each lasted. The best that we can do is to acknowl- 
edge our ignorance. The introduction of iron is itself a pre-historical event ; 
even tradition is silent about it ; how much, then, must the preceding ages of 
the bronze and of the stone lie further back, beyond all memory ! The prob- 
lem can only be solved by the aid of geology, by finding out cases of some 
regular and constant action of the elements, connected with marks of the prin- 
cipal human periods. The following is an example, which Avill show how dates 
of ABSOLUTE CHRONOLOGY are to be obtained : 

The alpine torrents, when they issue from the ravines or small lateral val- 
leys, which give rise to them, accumulate their alluvium in f;vn-sliaped deposits, 
or portions of cones of a very regular form. These are real deltas, but with a 
surface necessarily more inclined than is the case in those of rivers. The 
inclination of the cone depends on that of the ton-ent in its previous course, 
on the volume of the water, and on the quantity of shingle it drifts. This 
inclination varies with each torrent, and the limits of the variation are, on the 
one hand, the descent of rapid rivers; on the other, the slope of any accumula- 
tion of loose matter formed without the intervention of water, as, for exam- 
ple, in certain landslips. The usual inclination of these torrential deltas in the 
Alps ranges between 2 and 5 degrees. An inclination of 7 degrees is much 
less frequent, and the cases where it reaches 15 degrees are rare. If the 
form and nature of the hydrographical basin of a given torrent and the 
meteorological circumstances, such as the annual quantity of rain, do not 
change, it is evident that the torrent cannot alter the form nor the inclination 
of its cone or delta. The latter Avill consequently grow by concentric layers, 

* Eeitvaeije zur nordischen Alterthums Kunili', vom Verein fur LiibockiscLe Geschichtc. 
I. Heft, Lubeck, 1844. 
t Meiiioiics de la, .Socifcto d'cmukitiou du Doubs. 13esan(,'on, ISGJ. 



310 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

preserving regularly the same inclination. In ordinary times the torrent flows 
along the central region of its cone ; there also it drops its largest boulders in 
times of inundation, distributing the gravel and less coarse shingle over the 
sides of the cone, for the relative volume of the drifted stones must diminish 
with the force of propulsion of the water from the central region of the cone 
towards its two edges. It is clear that a torrent, left to itself, cannot raise the 
surface of its cone unevenly and create hollows and prominences. For if the 
surface were raised on any one spot, the water would immediately flow round 
and lill up the less elevated parts with drift. The action of water is essentially 
levelling. The great number of torrential cones, or deltas, which the author 
has had the opportunity, during the last 15 years, of examining in Switzerland 
and in the Austrian Alps, have ahvays showed a regular surface. There may 
be slight irregularities in the action of a torrent from one year to another, but 
proceeding chiefly from meteorological variations, they become insensible, when 
the cone is considered in its totality ; even at a given spot they will rapidly 
become levelled and effaced by the continued action of the torrent itself. We 
must also consider that the alluvium of a torrent is furnished by a slow degra- 
dation of its hydrographical basin, which can only yield the drift matter grad- 
ually, a circumstance necessarily contributing to regulate the growth of the 
cone. Thus, when in July, 1S48, the torrents in Corinthia (eastern Alps) 
were swollen and brought down a disastrous quantity of drift, the author heard 
the country people ascribe the damage, in good part, to the circumstance that 
the upper region of the water-courses had been more than usually encumbered 
by loose matter. 

The torrent of the Timbre, where it flows into the lake of Geneva, at 
Villeneuve, (Switzerland,) forms a cone or delta, such as we have just described. 
This cone has an inclination of 4 degrees, and its opening, or the angle at the 
toj) of the delta, measures about 700 degrees ; its radius, taken as a minimum, 
being 900 Swiss feet, (one Swiss foot equal to 0.3 metres, is divided into 10 
inches.) 

Modern embankments, in the shape of solid walls, having forced the torrent 
somewhat towards its right bank, on the northern side of the cone, the alluvium 
has since been accumulating more on that side, and has raised the surface here, 
whilst the southernmost part of the cone ceased to increase. Documents pre- 
served in the parish archives of Villeneuve mention these embankments as 
having been built in the year 1710, and their recent origin is confirmed by the 
scanty covering of vegetable mould on that part of the cone which was protected 
by them. Here, where the ground had not been cultivated, there was only 
from 2 to 3 inches (6 to 9 centimetres) of earth, inclusive of the space occupied 
by the roots of the grass. The railroad has cut transversely through this cone 
perpendicularly to its axis, the cutting measuring 1,000 feet in length, and 
reaching in its central part, Avliere the cone is highest, to 32.^- feet above the 
definitive lev^el of the rails. The section thus obtained (see page 316) may be rep- 
resented by the segment of a circle, rising to 32.^ feet above its chord of 1,000 feet. 
Happily for science, the works for the railway have been carried on very 
slowly at this spot; they were begun in 1856, and are not entirely finished 
now, (March, 1863.) The author followed them attentively from the beginning. 

The cone's interior structure, brought to light by this beautiful artificial sec- 
tion, was found to be most regular. In the central region the rounded boulders 
attained a diameter of 3 feet, as in the actual bed of the torrent. From thence 
the drifted matter gradually diminished in size along the two halves of the cone 
towards the two extremities of the cutting. There was an exception for the 
alluvium formed since the embankments of 1710, for here the drift was naturally 
coarser than in the underlying part. The waters of a torrent are not apt to 
produce a marked stratification, of which but slight traces were to be seen, and 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 311 

these beyond the central region in ihv two sides. But wliere stratification bc- 
c-ame apparent, it was perfectly parallel with the present surface of tlu; cone. 

All these circumstances go to establish in a highly satisfactory manner the 
regularity in the formation and growth of the cone;. Now, as the hydrographi- 
cal basin of the Tiniere, surveyed throughout by the author, is r(>gular, and 
t^hows no traces of landslips or of other accidents, which might have disturbed 
the regiilar working of the torrent, and as the meteorology of the country does 
not appear to have vandergone any alterations of note in modern times, we may 
admit that the rate of formation and of growth of the cone in question has 
been proportionate to the volume of its alluvium. The partial clearing of the 
forests in the hydrographical basin of the Tiniere may have contributed in some 
slight degree to accelerate the supiu-ficial degradation of the latter. But if this 
effect had been marked, which is doubtful, it would tend to carry higher the 
dates we shall proceed to deduce, and not to bring them lower down. 

In the southern flank of the cone, where it was protected, as wc have seen 
by the embankments of 1710, three beds or layers of ancient mould were dis- 
c>overed, situated at different depths, which had, each in its time, formed the 
surface of the cone. These three layers were regularly interstratifled in the 
gravel exactly parallel with each other and with the modern surface of the 
cone, which was itself most regular and inclined by 4 degrees along the line 
of the steepest dip. 

The first of these beds of vegetable mould was found from actual observation 
to extend, in the southern part of the cone, over a surface of more than 15,000 
square feet. It was from 4 to 6 inches thick and was situated at a depth of 4 
feet beneath the present surface of the ground; (more exactly at 0.14 metr<.', 
measured down to the bottom of the bed.) It belonged to the Roman era, as 
it was found to contain angular fragments of Roman tiles and a Roman coin in 
bad condition, but of too good a type to be of the lower empire. The Romans 
invaded the country after the battle of Bibracte, 58 years before Christ. Allow- 
ing them a century to settle in Helvetia, and to raise buildings covered with tiles, 
this Roman bed would date, at the most, 18 centuries back. In the year 56,"j 
after Christ, the tremendous landslip of Tauredunum ravaged the neighbor- 
hood; by that time the Roman dominion had passed away and had made room, 
about a century before, for the reign of the Burgundians, who do not appear to 
have practiced masonry or the manufacture of tiles. The Roman bed must 
(X)nseq\iently be at least 13 centuries old. 

Th(! second bed of ancient mould was followed up, on the soutln'rn side of 
the cone, over a space of about 25,000 square feet. It Avas about 6 inches 
thick, and stood 10 feet (more exactly at 2.97 metres, measured down to the 
bottom of the bed) below the present surfiicc of the ground. It contained a 
few fragments of pottery, made of clay mixed up with grains of sand, and un- 
varnished; also a pair of tweezers, (for plucking out the hair,) cast in bronze, 
and of the characteristic style of the bronze-age. 

The third and lowest of these beds of mould was uncovered, on the southern 
Bide of the cone, over a space of about 3,500 square feet. It was from 6 to 7 
inches thick, and was met with at a depth of 19 feet (or, to be exact, 5.69 metres) 
below the present surface of the cone. It yielded at one point on the north 
side of the cone a human skeleton, the skull of which was very round and 
pmall, and remarkably thick, showing a strongly-marked IMongolian (turanian 
or brachyccphalic) type, according to the measurements and examination insti- 
tuted on the spot by T. M. G. Montagu. The same bed yielded at another 
point, on the southern side of the cone, numerous fragments of very coarse 
pottery, charcoal, and broken bones of animals, evidently kitchen re-fuse. Tho 
bones have been examined by Professor Rutimeyer, at Bale, author of a re- 
mai-kable work on the animal remains of the antique pile works or lake dwell- 



312 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

iugs in Switzerland.* Allowing that the bones in question ai-o too few and 
insufficient to admit of very satisfactory conclusions, the learned professor 
makes out the ox, goat, sheep, pig, and dog, all domestic, and with characters 
which seem to point to the end of the stone age, or to the beginning of the 
bronze age. Weighing all the different circumstances, and avoiding imdire 
precision, Ave may consider this third bed as belonging to the stone age, although 
the author, who explored it diligently, has not had the good fortune to discover 
in it any stone hatchet or other antiquity of that sort. At one spot, on the 
southern side of the cone, some charcoal was found in a bed of gravel one foot 
lower than the above mentioned layer of the stone age; consequently, at 20 
feet (or, to be exact, at G.09 metres) below the actual surface of the cone. It is 
worthy of note, as the art of baking bricks and tiles is generally allowed to 
have been introduced into the country by the liomans, that below the line of 
the Roman period the author never discovered the slightest trace of bricks or 
tiles. 

Towards the central region of the cone, where the cutting was deepest, the 
three beds in question disappeared ; naturally enough, as it was here that tht5 
torrent's action was most violent, easily washing away any mould which might 
have formed on the surface. As the torrent, in deviating to the right and left of 
its central current, lost some of its power and drifted less coarse matter, it would 
be more apt to overlay with new deposits, without abrading a layer of mould 
or earth formed since the preceding inundations. Quite in accordance with 
this there was found in the gravel on the southern side of the cone, at a spot 
where the mould bed of the bronze age had quite disappeared, but still 10 feet 
below the present surface, a hatchet-knife of bronze, considerably oxydized, 
and a well-preserved bronze hatchet which had evidently not been worn by the 
movement of the water. The specitic weight of these two objects must havo 
kept them in place, while the earth which surrounded them was probably swept 
away by the torrent. Though the three beds of ancient mould disappeared 
thus in the centre of the cone, they reappeared symmetrically on the other or 
northern side. But here they stood at a greater depth beneath the present 
surface, because the torrent, as we have seen, accumulated its alluvium on this 
side. Yet here, also, the beds were pai-allel to each other, and the vertical dis- 
tances which sepai'ated them were the same as on the other side of the axis, in 
the southern part of the cone. There was, in the northern part of the cuttings 
a depth of G feet from the lloman bed to the base of the bronze bed, and 10 teet 
from this last to the bed of the stone age. It was impossible to mistake these 
three beds, or to confound them one with another. The stone-age bed Avas too 
little interrupted in the central region to allow the observer to deviate from its 
proper line of prolongation. The ba'onze-age bed Avas interrupted to a greater 
(ixtent, but on both sides of the cone it Avas equally characterized by being 
formed of clayey earth of a bluish color, someAvhat similar to the blue glacial 
mud, and bordered towards its upper and loAver limit by more sandy zones, 
colored yelloAV by hydroxyde of iron. This Avas remarkable, and evidently 
indicated some peculiar cause. The stone-age bed sometimes bore a similar 
aspect, but only occasionally and not so regularly as the bronze bed. The 
Homan formation on the northern side Avas only recognized by its height above 
the bronze-age bed; no fragments of Iloman tiles Avere found here, but it av;is 
only laid open over a short space, about 40 feet along the railAvay line, AA'hilst 
the bronze-age bed Avas regularly and distinctly folloAved on the northern side, 
over a distance of 200 feet.t 



* Rutimeyer, Die Fauna der Pfaldbauten der Schwciz. Basel, 1861. 

\ The intersection of the bronze-age stratum with the masonry of the bridge, Avhich 
conveys the torrent over the railway, has been marked on the eastern side, opposite the lake, 
by a thick line of reddish paint. It is easily discovered in passing in the railway train, being 
at the height of the Avindows of the passenger carriages. 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 313 

Now, consicleriug the mcasuremeuts and researches conducted on and in the 
southern side of the cone or delta, making due allowance for the effect of the 
embankments, but, to remain on the safe side of the question, doubling their 
age — that is, supposing them to be three centuries old ; taking into account 
the thickness of the vegetable mould on the present surface; observing that 
the volnme of the cone increases in the ratio of the cube of its radius ; ascrib- 
ing to the Roman formation an age of at least 13, and at most 18 centuries ; 
and remembering that the cone must have taken time for growing, in propor- 
tion to the volume of its alluvium, we find, by calculation, for the bronze-age bed 
of mould a date of from 29 to 42 centuries ; for the stone-age bed a date of from 
47 to 70 centuries; and for the entire cone an age of from 70 to 110 centuries. 
The author thinks that it would be sufficiently exact, though still within the 
limit, to deduct but two centuries for the action of the embankments, and to 
allow for the Roman bed an age of 16 centuries. This would give for the 
bronze-age bed a date of 38 centuries (2,000 years before Christ,) for the 
8tone-age bed a date of 64 centuries, and for the entire cone, corresponding 
with the modern geological era, an age of about 100 centuries, which latter 
number must appear a minimum to the geologist. But, not to reckon too 
strictly in counting by centuries, let us say that tlte hronzc-agc Led is from 
three to four thousand and the stone-age hed from five to seven thousand years 
old. 

It is clear that each of these ancient beds of mould cannot represent the total 
duration of each corresponding age, but merely a fraction of each of these 
ages, a period more or less protracted, during which the torrent has worked 
along the central region of its cone without overflowing its sides, on which 
vegetation could then take root. The suiiace of the cone must usually have 
been formed of bare shingle, upon which only a few shrubs could thrive. 
This explains why no traces of human habitation were noted in the gravel 
iuterstratified between the three beds of ancient mould. The clayey nature 
of the latter seems to indicate that they probably owed their origin to inunda- 
tions of an exceptional character, forming loamy rather than gravelly deposits, 
thus favoring the development of vegetation and attracting man to the spot. 
It might possibly be objected that, these three beds having been deposited by 
the torrent, the ancient remains which they contain might also have been 
swept down by the water from some other locality, in which case the age of 
tliese formations would remain undetermined. But the ancient remains were well 
preserved and evidently not worn by translation ; the fragments of pottery 
and of bricks were angular, as were also the small pieces of charcoal scattered 
through each of the beds, all three of which contained, moreover, entire shells of 
various species of snails. The objection raised falls, therefore, to the ground. 

Let us here notice that the minimum date of 29 centuries for the bronze-age 
bed agrees very well with the purely archaeological deductions, which carry 
back the introduction of iron into our countries to at least one thousand years 
before the Christian era.* This correspondence is the more complete, as 
the style of the tweezers found in the bronze-age bed indicates the end rather 
than the beginning of that age. If that minimum of 29 centuries for the date 
of the bronze bed be correct, the minima dates of 47 centuries for the stone- 
age bed, and of 74 centuries for the age of the entire cone, must also be correct, 

*■ See the chapter on the chronological question in the Etudes gSologico-archeologiques 
en Danemark et en Suisse par A. Morlot. Bulletin dc la Societe vaudoisc dcs sciences natu- 
relles, Tome VI, No. AG^Lausanne, 1860; reproduced in English in the "Smithsonian Re- 
port for 1880: Washington, 1861." Greek coins of the oldest type are met with on the .shores 
of the Baltic, as far as the island of Oesel. Throughout Germany, as far as the Danish archi- 
pelago, are found certain antique oljjects, indicating commercial intercourse between the 
north and the south of Europe long before the Christian era. This implies for that period 
the knowledge of iron in the north of Europe. 



314 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 

while the maxima obtained may iu reality be underrated. Thus the maximum 
©f 110 centuries for the age of the entire cone is evidently rather below than 
above the mark. Still it appears from the latter number that the modern 
geological period to which the cone or delta of the Tiniere corresponds has 
not been very long, and that, soon after its beginning, man inhabited Europe. 
This is confirmed by the study of tlie peat-bogs i]i Denmark and in Switzer- 
land. The rude flint hatchets found in England and in France in drift gravel, 
associated with the bones of the elephant {dcphas j^fimigc/iius) and of other 
extinct species, would seem to carry back the appearance of man in Europe 
to an epoch even preceding what is usually considered as the modern geolo- 
gical period.* 

Let us further notice, that if the stone-age bed really belongs to the begin- 
ning of the bronze age, it follows that the latter has lasted from two to three 
tliousand years, since the tweezers found in the bronze-age bed, at a depth of 
ten feet, point, as we have seen, belonged to the end of the age. Hitherto we 
had been left without the taintest notion as to the real length of the bronze age; 
it Avas only evident, from the quantity and the quality of its remains, that it 
must have been of long duration. 

We have thus attempted to substantiate for high antiquity the first data in 
a system of absolute chronology, expressed by thousands of years. The 
opportunity has been singularly favorable, it is true, but it has the defect of 
being the first and only case of its kind. Let us hope that others will not be 
long in presenting themselves, and that they will be turned to good account ; 
for as long as a fact remains isolated, the inferences drawn from it cannot be 
verified by comparison, and the mind cannot rest fully satisfied.t 

But what avail these researches into the past, when the present more than 
suffices to engross our attention 1 The question is legitimate, and it is right that 
we should close with some reference to the end and practical use of our 
study. 

When the philosophers of ancient Greece exercised their ingenuity in investi- 
gating the properties of the conic sections, they little thought they were laying 
the foundation of the modern methods by which are calculated the astronomi- 
cal tables that guide the mariner's course. No one asks at present what is the 
use of mathematics. 

Less than a century ago geologists would have been rather puzzled to de- 
monstrate the practical utility of their labors. Now, it is easy to furnish the 
most satisfactory exemplifications of geology to industry. 

Every step in the acquisition of real knowledge, the least secret of nature 
duly unravelled, has its intrinsic value, and will sooner or later contribute 
towards the well-being of our race. But science requii'es time for clearing its 
ground, for sowing its seeds, and for bringing in its harvests. Archa?ology is 
even younger than its sister geology, and we must not be surprised if it has 
not as yet matured its fruits. The following, however, may be accepted as a 
word of apology in its behalf: 

Nature forms one harmonious whole, of which the compound elements have 

* T. Piestwich, on the occurrence of flint implements, &c.: Philosophical Transactions, 
I'art 11. 18G0. 

1 This firwt attempt has already met with a singular corroboratiou through researches 
oi Mr. Gillieron at Neuveville, on the lake of Bienne, Switzerland. This shrewd and careful 
observer makes out for a pile-work or lake dwelling of the stoiie age at Pont-de-Thielle, iu 
his neighborhood, an antiquity of 67-|^ centuries. See Actcs dc la societe juraslcnne d'6mur 
lation. Ann6e, 1860. A calculation of the age of some pile-works in the peat at Les Uttins, 
near Yvcrdou, Switzerland, has been proved to be a failure. See the paper by Mr. Tayet in 
the Bulletin dc la societe vaudoise dcs sciences naturellcs. 16 Avril, 18G2. These chro- 
nological researches in Switzerland are dwelt upon by Sir Charles Lyell iu his new work, 
" The geological evidences of the antiquity of man. Loudon, 1863."' 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 315 

the most intimate reciprocal relations. Consequently, a knowledge of the 
present throws light upon the past, and reciprocally the past renders the present 
more clear. We know the observations upon the changes Avhich are now 
taking place on the surface of the globe are necessary to enable us to compre- 
hend the geological results of past times to explain the present condition of 
the continents. The naturalist who would have a satisfactory idea of an or- 
ganized being, even after dissecting it, must study its developr&ent from the 
first germ, and this germ itself cannot be fully comprehended without a knowl- 
edge of the entire being. And as regards man, could he account for his present 
condition without reviving the recollections of his youth, or could he under- 
stand his infancy had he not ripened into manhood ? 

Thus, if the knowledge of the present state of our race is necessary for 
reconstructing its past ages, the study of antiquity is also indispensable for the 
proper comprehension of the present, and for arriving at a real understanding 
of the social relations which constitute the life of nations. It will therefore 
be an immense gain when the jn-ogress of scientific research into the develop- 
ment of our race shall substitute positive notions, rich in practical application, 
for those vain and empty political discussions which, orginating in ignorance, 
end in error. 

Finally, if the astronomer has succeeded in foretelling the movements of the 
celestial bodies, because he has detected the laws which govern them, may we 
not hope, Avith Condorcet,* that when the present shall be well understood 
as a necessary result of the past, we may be enabled in some degree to pene- 
trate the mysterious future 1 This would be one of the most glorious, and cer- 
tainly also one of the most fertile, triumphs of human intelligence. 

Let us, then, study the past, in order that Ave may understand the present, 
and perhaps catch a glimpse of the future. 

* Condorcet. Esquisse d'un Tableau Historiquc du Progr6s de L'esprit Hmnain: 
Paris, 1796: page '362. 



316 STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 



SECTION OF THE CONE OR DELTA OF THE TINIERE. 



R. Roman stratum, at a depth of 4 feet, on tlie southern side. 

B. Bronze-age stratum, 10 feet deep, from 3 to 4 thousand years old. +, spot 
where a hatchet-knife and a hatchet, both of bronze, were found. 

S. Stone-age stratum, 19 feet deep, from 5 to 7 thousand years old. In it 
have been found : at a, a bit of pottery ; at h, a human skeleton with a very 
small, round, and thick skull of the Mongolian or turanian type, (brachycep- 
halic;) at d, numerous fragments of very rude pottery, much charcoal, and a 
number of broken bones of quadrupeds. 

A. Central axis of the eone, which cone is cut transversely by the railway. 
It was here that the torrent flowed in ordinary times, before it had been driven 
more northwardly by dams. 

C C. Surface of the cone, when the dams were raised. This line is, to a 
certain degree, ideal ; all the others are such as have been ascertained by direct 
observation. 

M N . The railway line. 

V. Bridge, serving also as an aqueduct, to carry the torrent over and across 
the railway. 

P N. Region to which refer exclusively the measurements that have 
figured in the chronological computation. These measurements, often repeated, 
were susceptible of being taken here with considerable accuracy; they may be 
considered as within half an inch of the truth. 

The section has been interrupted in M, because there it becomes indistinct. 
Its southern end was perfect in every respect. 

Some persons will perhaps infer from the regularity of the cone of the Tiniere, 
that its rate of growth was irregular. The same persons would doubtless, 
had the structure of the cone been irregular, have come to the conclusion that 
the rate of growth had been regular ! Others will probably practice the by no 
means unusual method of supposing imaginary circumstances, by means of 
which to invalidate the direct inductions from positive facts. This would be 
verba, non res, instead of res, non verba. Thus Professor A. Wagner, at Munich, 
of course without examining the spot, found that the 4 feet of gravel, which 
cover regularly the Roman stratum, might as v/ell have been deposited in 10 
or 15 minutes, instead of as many centuries.* It would have been just as 
ingenious to say that a human being may grow up to manhood iii 30 minutes 
instead of 30 years ! 

At all events, the author will be delighted to abandon his results as soon as 
he is shown something better. 

* Sitzungsherichte der Math: Phys: Classe der Akadcmie in MUnchen. 8Ju7ti,lStil, 
Heft. 11. 



STUDY OF HIGH ANTIQUITY. 317 



PROGRAMME OF THE COURSE OF LECTURES BY M. MORLOT 
AT THE ACADEMY OF LAUSANNE. 



Introductory Lecture. 



What is mcaut by the study of liigli antiquity. — History of the science. — 
MMrs. Thomson and Nilssou. — Their three ages : of the stone, of the bronze, 
of the iron. — The method to be followed : Ethnography; the style; associa- 
tion ; superposition. — Chronology ; the delta of the Tiniere. — End and practi- 
cal use of the science. 

Lecture II. 

The stone age iti ike North. — The peat bogs in Denmark show three periods 
of the forest : the Scotch fir, the oak, the beech. — Antiquities of the peat bogs. 
Kjoekkenmoedding (kitchen refuse) ; Plants ; animals ; the traces of human in- 
dustry in the Kjoekkenmoeddiug. — How flint was turned to use. 

Lecture III. 

The stone age in Sivitzcrland. — Pile- works or lake dwellings : their discov- 
ery ; their situation ; their structure. — Instruments : arms ; pottery. — Plants : 
flax and flaxen stuffs ; corn and bread. — Wild and domestic animals. 

Lecture IV. 

The bronze age. — The art of mining and smelting : copper and tin. — The 
copper age in North America. — Bronze worked in the north of Europe. — Chemi- 
cal examination of the antique bronze. — Gold known and Avorked. — The art of 
casting metal. — Ornaments on the cast bronze, geometrical style. — Instruments; 
arms ; trinkets. — In Switzerland, pile-works of the bronze age. 

Lecture V. 

The early iron age. — Meteoric iron : the primitive mode of working iron. — 
Transition period from bronze to iron : Hallstatt. — Silver, glass, and enamel; 
glazed pottery. — Coins. — The alphabet. — The North. — Switzerland : The Tie- 
seuan-tind ; the Helvetians ; arms ; chariots ; roads ; pile-works ; coins and in- 
scriptions ; ornaments. — The geometrical style, combined with rude animal and 
human figures. — Monuments in Switzerland. 

Lecture VI. 

General revieic. — History of civilization ; different branches of that study. — 
The origin of man. — Flint instruments in diluvial gravel, with extinct species. — 
The art of producing fire; its consequences. — The stone age: comparison 
with the present savages ; analogies and differences ; tombs and sacred stones ; 
human race of the period. — The bronze age : a nev.^ civilization ; arts and com- 
crce ; tombs; religion; races; the primitive inhabitants dispossessed. — The 
early iron age : tombs ; human sacrifices ; religion ; human races ; domestic 
animals; coining; writing. — The dawn of history; the beginning of science. 

Moral of the Lectures. — The study of antiquity reveals the slow but steady 
progress of man, as the study of geology reveals the gradual development of 
our planet. 



318 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHJIOLOGY. 

PUBLISHED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[From the "Natural History Eeviow," London. 



By JOHN LUBBOCK, F.R.S., L. S., and G. S. 



1. Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, comprising the Eesults op 

EXTENSIVE ORKiiNAL SURVEYS AND ExPLORATJONS. By E. G. Squier, A.M., and 
E. H. Davis, M.D. 

2. ABORKiiNAL Monuments of the State of New York, comprising the Results 

OF Original Surveys and Explorations ; with an illustrative Appendix. 
By E. G. Squier, A.M. 

3. The Antiquities of Wisconsin, as surveyed and described by I. A. Lapham. 

4. The Archeology of the Unit ed States ; or Sketches, Historical and Biblio- 

graphical, OF THE Progress of Information and Opinion respecting Vestiges 
of Antiquity in the United States. By Samuel F. Haven. 

. The four works wliicli we have placed at the head of this article form a 
part of the long series of scientific researches which have been published under 
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. There are several other memoirs 
which we ought, perhaps, to have added to our list, and especially one bj Mr. 
Caleb Atwater, who, according to Messrs. Squier and Davis, " deserves the 
credit of being the pioneer in this department." His researches form the first 
volume of the Archceologia Americana, which was published in 1819, and con- 
tains plans and descriptions of many ancient works. 

The memoir by Messrs. Squier and Davis, occupying more than three hun- 
dred pages, is chiefly descriptive of ancient fortifications, enclosures, temples, 
and mounds, and of the different implements, ornaments, &c., which have been 
obtained from them. It is embellished Avith forty-eight plates, and no less than 
two hundred and seven woodcuts. 

In his second work, Mr. Squier confines himself to the antiquities of the State 
of New York. Within these limits, however, he describes many ancient monu- 
ments of various kinds, and he feels "warranted in estimating the number which 
originally existed in the State at from two hundred to two hundred and fifty." 
He comes to the conclusion, "little anticipated," he says, "when I started upon 
my trip of exploration, that the earthworks of western New York were erected 
by the Iroquois, or their western neighbors, and do not possess an antiquity 
going very far back of the discovery." (sic.) 

The systematic exploration of the ancient remains in Wisconsin, of which the 
memoir by .^Ir. Lapham is the result, was undertaken by him on behalf of the 
American Antiquarian Society, from whose funds the necessary expenses were 
provided. The cost of the publishing, however, which, from the great number 
of engravings, (fifty-five plates, besides sixty-one wood engravings,) was con- 
siderable, was defrayed by the Smithsonian Institution, and the work is included 
in the seventh volume of " Contributions." As our account of the " Animal 
Mounds" will be almost entirely derived from the data furnished by Mr. Lap- 
ham, we Avill for the moment say no more on the subject. 

Mr. Haven's work is well described in the title, and forms an interesting in- 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHAEOLOGY. 319 

troduction to the study of North Ameiican Archaeology. He gives us compara- 
tively few observations or opinions of his own ; but after a careful examination 
of what others have written, he comes to the conclusion that the anci(;nt earth- 
works of the United States "differ less in kind than in degree from other remains 
concerning which history has not been entirely silent. They are more numerous, 
more concentrated, and in some particulars on a larger scale of labor, than the 
works which approach them on their several borders, and with whose various 
characters they arc blended. Their numbers may be the result of frequent 
changes of residence by a comparatively limited population, in accordance with 
a superstitious trait of the Indian nature, leading to the abandonment of places 
where any great calamity has been suffered ; but Ihey appear rather to indicate 
a country thickly inhabited for a period long enough to admit of the progressive 
enlargement and extension of its movements." 

The last work on our list is of a very different nature. It is more general and 
more ambitious. At the same time, it scarcely fulfils the promise of its title ; for 
though some portions are sufficiently general, by far the larger part is purely 
North American. It will foi-m the subject of a separate notice in this Review. 

The antiquities themselves fall into two great divisions : Implements (including 
ornaments) and Earthworks. The Earthworks have been divided by the Ameri- 
can Archaeologists into seven classes : 1. Defensive enclosures ; 2. Sacred and 
Miscellaneous enclosures ; 3. Sepulchral mounds ; 4. Sacrificial mounds ; 5. 
Temple mounds ; 6. "Animal" mounds ; and 7. Miscellaneous mounds. Theee 
classes we shall treat separately, and we can then better consider the " mound- 
builders" themselves. 

IMPLEMENTS. 

The simple weapons of bone and stone which are found in America closely 
resemble those which occur in other countries. The flakes, hatchets, axes, 
arrow-heads, and bone implements are, for instance, very similar to those which 
occur in the Swiss lakes, if only we make allowance for the differences of ma- 
terial. In addition to the simple forms, which may almost be said to be ubi- 
quitous, there are some, however, which are more complicated. In many cases 
they are perforated, as, for instance, those figured by Messrs. Squier ancl Davia 
(1. c, p. 218.) These perforated axes are generally considered in Europe to 
belong to the metallic age, as also was probably the case in' the New World. 

At the time of the discovery of America iron was absolutely unknown to the 
natives, with the exception, perhaps, of a tribe near the mouth of the La Plata, 
who had arrows tipped with this metal, which they are supposed to have ob- 
tained from masses of native iron. The powerful nations of Central America 
were, however, in the age of bronze, while the North Americans were in a con- 
dition of which we find in Europe but scanty traces — namely, in the age of cop- 
per. Silver is the only other metal which has been found in the ancient tu- 
muli, and that but in very small quantities. It occurs sparingly in a native 
form with the copper of Lake Superior, whence, in all probability, it was de- 
rived. It does not appear to have been ever smelted. From the large quantity 
of galena which is found in the mounds, Messrs. Squier and Davis are disposed 
to think that lead must have been used to a certain extent by the North Ameri- 
can tribes ; the metal itself, however, has not, I believe, yet been found. 

Copper, on the other hand, occurs frequently in the tumuli, both wrought 
and unwrought. The axes have a striking resemblance to the simple axes of 
Europe, which contain the minimum quantity of tin; and some of the Mexican 
paintings give us interesting evidence as to the manner in which they were han- 
dled and used. These, however, were of bronze, and had therefore been fused ; 
but the Indian axes, Avhich are of pure copper, appear in all cases to -have been 
worked in a cold state, which is the more remarkable, because, as Messrs. Squier 
and Davis have well* observed, "the fires upon the altar were sufficiently in- 



320 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

tense to melt down the copper implements and ornaments deposited upon them. 
The hint thus ajfforded does not seem to have been seized upon." * 

This is less surprising than it at first appears, if we remember that round Lake 
Superior^ and in some other still more northern localities, copper is found native 
in large quantities, and the Indians had therefore nothing to do but to break off 
pieces and hammer them into the required shape. Hearne's celebrated journey 
to the mouth of the Coppermine river was undertaken in order to examine the 
locality whence the natives of that district obtained the metal. In this case it 
occurred in lumps actually on the surface, and the Indians seemed to have picked 
up what they could, without attempting anything that could be called mining. 
Around Lake Superior, however, the case is very different. A short account of 
the ancient copper-mines is given by Messrs. Squier and Davis in the work 
already so often ci/ed, by Jlr. Squier in " The Aboriginal Monuments of the 
State of New York," and by Mr. Lapham,t while the same subject is treated at 
considerable length by Prof. Wilson. The works appear to have been first dis- 
covered in 1847, by the agent of the Minnesota Mining Company. 

"Following up the indications of a continuous depression in the soil, he came 
at length to a cavern where he found several porcupines had fixed their quarters 
for hybernation; but detecting evidences of artificial excavation, he proceeded to 
clear out the accumulated soil, and not only exposed to view a vein of copper, 
but found in the rubbish numerous stone mauls and hammers of the ancient 
workmen. Subsequent observations brought to light ancient excavations of 
great extent, frequently from twenty-five to thirty feet deep, and scattered over 
an area of several miles. The rubbish taken from these is piled up in mounds 
alongside ; while the trenches have been gradually refilled with the soil and de- 
caying vegetable matter gathered through the long centuries since their deser- 
tion; and over all, the giants of the forest have grown, and withered, and fallen 
to decay. Mr. Knapp, the agent of the Minnesota Mining Company, counted 
395 annular rings in a hemlock tree, which grew on one of the mounds of earth 
thrown out of an ancient mine. Mr. Foster also notes the great size and age of 
a pine stump, which must have grown, flourished, and died since the work8 
were deserted; and Mr. 0. Whittlesey not only refers to living trees now 
flourishing in the gathered soil of the abandoned trenches, upwards of thre« 
hundred years old, but he adds, ' On the same spot there are the decayed trnnks 
of a preceding generation or generations of trees, that have arrived at maturity. 
and fallen down from old age.' According to the same writer, in a communica- 
tion made to the American Association, at the Montreal meeting in 18">7, these 
ancient works extend over a track from 100 to 150 miles in length, along the 
southern shore of the lake." 

In another excavation Avas found a detached mass of native copper, weighing 
upwards of six tons. It rested in an artificial cradle of black oak, partly pre- 
served by immersion in water. Various implements and tools of the same metal 
were found with it. The commonest of these are the stone mauls or hammers, 
of which from one place ten cart-loads were obtained. With these were "stone 
axes of large size, made of greenstone, and shaped to receive the withe-handles." 
"Some large round greenstone masses, that had apparently been used for 
sledges, were also found. They had round holes bored in them to a depth of 
several inches, which seemed to have been designed for wooden plugs, to which 
withe-handles might be attached, so that several men could swing them with 
sufiicicnt force to break the rock and the projecting masses of copper. Some of 
them were broken, and some of the projecting ends of rock exhibited marks of 
having been battered in the manner here suggested." | 

* One "cast" copper axe is, however, recorded as having been found in the State of New- 
York, but there is no evidence to show bj whom it was made, 
t Loc. cit., p. 74. 
t Prof. W. W. Mather, in a letter to Mr. Squier, 1. c, p. 184. 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHiEOLOGY. 321 

Wooden implements are so perishable that we could not expect many of them 
to have been found. Two or three wooden bowls, a trough, and some shovels 
with long handles, are all that appear to be recorded. 

It has often been stated that the Indians possessed some method, at present 
unknown, by which they were enabled to harden the copper. This, however, 
from examinations instituted by Prof. Wilson, seems to be in error. Some 
copper implements, which he submitted to Prof. Crofts, were found to be no 
harder than the native copper from Lake Superior. " The structure of the metal 
was also highly laminated, as if the instrument had been brought to its present 
shape by hammering out a solid mass of copper." 

POTTERY. 

Before the introduction of metallic vessels, the art of the potter was much 
more important even than it is at present. Accordingly, the sites of all ancient 
habitations are marked by numerous fragments of pottery lying about ; this is 
as true of the ancient Indian settlements as of the Celtic towns of England, or 
the Lake villages of Switzerland. These fragments, however, would generally 
be those of rude household vessels, and it is principally from the tumuli that we 
obtain those better-made urns and cups from which the state of the art may 
fairly be inferred. Yet I know of no British sepulchral urn, belonging to the 
stone age, which has upon it a curved line. It is unnecessary to add that rep- 
resentations of animals or plants are entirely wanting. They are also absent 
from all articles belonging to the bronze age in Switzerland, and I might almost 
say in Western Europe generally, while ornaments of curved and spiral lines 
are eminently characteristic of this period. The ornamental ideas of the stone 
age, on the other hand, are confined, so far as we know, to compositions of 
straighter lines, and the idea of a curve does not seem to have occurred to them. 
The most elegant ornaments on their vases are impressions of the finger-nail, or 
of a cord wound round the soft clay. 

Very different was the condition of American art. Dr. Wilson has well 
pointed out that, as regards Europe, "in no single case is any attempt made to 
imitate leaf or flower, bird, beast, or any simple natural object; and when, in 
the bronze work of the later iron period, imitative fonns at length appear, they 
are chiefly the snake and dragon shapes and patterns, borrowed seemingly by 
Celtic and Teutonic wanderers, with the wild fancies of their mythology, from 
the far eastern cradle land of their birth." This rule, however general, is not 
quite without exceptions; witness the bronze knife, fig. 166, in the catalogue of 
the Copenhagen museum. This interesting specimen has for a handle the figure 
of a man, which, however, is but a poor specimen of art. Moreover, some doubt 
may possibly be entertained about the age of this knife ; the tip is broken off, 
but the blade, as far as it goes, is quite straight in the back, a form which, 
though general in the iron age, is seldom, if ever, found in knives of the bronze 
age, in which the back part is always more or less curved.* 

But I mvist not suifer myself to be led into a digression on ancient art, es- 

Eecially as M. Morlot has been specially devoting himself to this study, and, in 
is forthcoming work on the Antiquities of Mecklenbourg, will, I hope, throw 
much light on the subject. 

"Among the North American mound-builders the art of pottery attained to a 
considerable degree of perfection " Some vases, indeed, are said to rival, " in ele- 
gance of model, delicacy, and finish," the best Peruvian specimens. The ma- 
terial used is a fine clay; in the more delicate specimens, pure; in the coarser 
ones, mixed with pounded quartz. The art of glazing and the use of the pot- 

* I except, of course, the small razor-knives, which (Copenhagen Catalogue, Nos. 171 to 
175) have a totally different form. These, moreover, from the character of their ornamenta- 
tion, belong probably to the close of the bronze age, it" not to that of iron. 

21 S 



322 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

ter's wlieel appear not to liave been known, though that " simple approximation 
to a potter's wheel may have existed," which consists of " a stick of wood grasped 
in the liand by the middle, and tui-ned round inside a wall of chxy formed 
by the other hand or by another workman."* 

Among the most characteristic specimens of ancient American pottery are 
the pipes. Some of these are simple bowls, smaller indeed, but otherwise not 
unlike a common every-day pipe, from which they differ, however, in having gen- 
erally no stem, the mouth having apparently been applied direct to the bowl. 
Others are highly ornamented, and many are spirited representations of monsters 
or of animals, such as the beaver, otter, wild cat, elk, bear, wolf, panther, rac- 
coon, opossum, squirrel, manatee, eagle, hawk, heron, owl, buzzard, raven, swal- 
low, parroquet, duck, grouse, and many others. The most interesting of these, 
perhaps, is the manatee or lamantin, of which seven representations have been 
found in the mounds of Ohio. These are no mere rude sculptures, about which 
there might easily be a mistake, but "the truncated head, thick semicircular 
snout, peculiar nostrils, tumid, furrowed upper lip, singular, feet or fins, and re- 
markable moustaches, are all distinctly marked, and render the recognition of 
the animal complete." t This curious animal is not at present found further 
north than the shores of Florida, a thousand miles away. 

ORNAMENTS. 

The ornaments which have been found in the mounds consist of beads, shells, 
necklaces, pendants, plates of mica, bracelets, gorgets, &c. The number of 
beads is sometimes quite surprising. Thus the celebrated Grave Creek mound 
contained between three and four thousand shell-beads, besides about two hun- 
dred and fifty ornaments of mica, several bracelets of copper, and various 
articles carved in stone. The beads are generally made of shell, but are some- 
times cut out of bone or teeth ; in form they are generally round or oblong*,- 
sometimes the shell of the Unio is cut and strung so as to "exhibit the convex 
surface and pearly nacre of the shell." The necklaces are often made of 
beads or shells, but sometimes of teeth. The ornaments of mica are thin plates 
of various forms, each of which has a small hole. The bracelets are of copper, 
and generally encircle the arms of the skeletons, besides being frequent on the 
"altars." They are simple rings, "hammered out with more or less skill, and 
so bent that the ends approach, or lap over, each other." The so-called "gor- 
gets" are thin plates of copper, always with two holes, and probably, therefore, 
worn as badges of authority. 

EARTHWORKS. 

Defensive cnrlosurcs. — The works belonging to tlie first class "usually oc- 
cupy strong natural positions," and as a fiiir specimen of them we may take the 
Boiimcville cnclosur(; in Iloss county, Ohio. "This work," say Messrs. Squier 
and Davis (1. c, p. 11,) "occupies the summit of a lofty detached hill, twelve 
miles westward from the city of Chillicothe, near the village of Bourneville. 
" The hill is not far from four bundled feet in perpendicular height ; and is re- 
markable, even among the steep hills of the west, for the general abruptness 
of its sides, which at some points are absolutely inaccessible." * * * * 
"The defences consist of a wall of stone, Avhich is carried round the hill a little 
below the brow ; but at some places it rises, so as to cut off the narrow spurs, 
and extends across the neck that connects the hill with the range beyond." 
It. must not, however, be understood that anything like a true wall now exists ; 
the prc.i-ent appearance is rather what might have been " expected from the 
falling outwards of a wall of stones, placed, as this was, upon the declivity of 

* Squier and Davis, 1. c, p. 195. t Squier and Davis, 1. c, p. 252. 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 323 

a hill." Where it is most distinct it is from fifteen to twenty feet -wicle by three 
or four in height. The area thus enclosed is about one- hundred and forty acres, 
and the wall is two miles and a quarter in length. The stones themselves vary 
much in size, and Messrs. Squier and Davis suggest that the wall may originally 
have been about eight feet high, with an equal base;. At present, trees of the 
largest size are growing upon it. On a similar work, known as " Fort Hill," 
Highland coimty, Ohio, Messrs. Squier and Davis found a splendid chestnut 
tree, which they suppose to have been six hundred years old. " If," they say, 
" to this we add the probable period intervening from the time of the building 
of this work to its abandonment, and the subsequent period up to its invasion 
by the forest, we are led irresistibly to the conclusion that it has an antiquity of 
at least one thousand years. But when we notice, all around us, the crumbling 
trunks of trees, half hidden in the accumulating soil, we are induced to fix on 
an antiquity still more remote." 

The enclosure known as Clark's work, in Ross county, Ohio, is one of the 
largest and most interesting. It consists of a parallelogram, two thousand eight 
hundred feet by eighteen hundred, and enclosing about one hundred and eleven 
acres. To the right of this, the principal work is a perfect square, containing 
an area of about sixteen acres. Each side is eight hundred and fifty feet in 
length, and in the middle of each is a gateway thirty feet wide, and covered by 
a small mound. Within the area of the great work are several smaller mounds 
and enclosures; and it is estimated that not less than three millions of cubic 
feet of earth were used in this great undertaking. 

It has also been observed that water is almost invariably found within or 
close to these enclosures. 

Sacred and miscellaneous enclosures. — If the purpose for which the works 
belonging to the first class were erected is very evident, the same cannot be 
said for those which we have now to mention. That they were not intended 
for defence is inferred by Messrs. Squier and Davis from their small size, from 
the ditch being inside the embankment, and from their position, which is often 
completely commanded by neighboring heights. 

Dr. Wilson also (vol. i, p. 324) follows Sir R. C. Hoare in considering the 
position of the ditch as being a distinguishing mark between military and 
religious works. But Catlin expressly tells us that in the Mandan village 
Avhich he describes, the ditch was on the inner side of the embankment, and 
the warriors were thus sheltered while they shot their arrows through the 
stockade. We see, therefore, that, in America at least, this is no reliable guide. 

While, however, the defensive earthworks occupy hill-tops, and other situ- 
ations most easy to defend, the so-called sacred enclosures are genei-ally found 
on " the broad and level river bottoms, seldom occurring upon th(> table-lands, 
or Avhere the surface of the ground is undulating or broken." They are usually 
square or circular in form, a circle being often combined with one or two 
squares. " Occasionally we find them isolated, but more frequently in groups. 
The greater number of the circles are of small size, with a nearly uniform 
diameter of two hundred and fifty or three hundred feet, and invariably have 
the ditch interior to the wall." Some of the circles, however, are much larger, 
enclosing fifty acres or more. The squares or other rectangular works never 
have a ditch, and the earth of which they are composed appears to have been 
taken up evenly from the surface, or from large pits in the neighborhood. 
They vary much in size ; five or six of them, however, are *' exact squares, 
each side measuring one thousand and eighty feet — a coincidence which could 
not possibly be accidental, and which must possess some significance." The 
circles also, in spite of their great size, are perfectly round, so that the Ameri- 
can archaeologists consider themselves justified in concluding that the mound- 
builders must have had some standard of measurement, and some means of 
determining angles. 



324 NOETH AMEKICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

The most remarkable group is that near Newark, in the Scioto valley, which 
covers an area oi four square miles ! A plan of these gigantic works is given 
by Messrs. Squier and Davis, and another, from a later sin-vey, by Mr. Wilson. 
They consist of an octagon, with an area of fifty, a square occupying twenty 
acres, two large circles occupying, respectively, thirty and twenty acres. From 
the octagon an avenue formed by parallel walls exteads southwards for two 
miles and a half ; there are two other avenues which are rather more than a 
mile in length, one of them connecting the octagon with the square. 

Besides these, there are various other embankments and small circles, the 
greater number about eighty feet in diameter, but some few much larger. The 
walls of these small circles, as well as those of the avenues and of the irregular 
portions of the works generally, are very slight, and for the most part about 
four feet in height. The other embankments are much more considerable; the 
walls of the large circle are even now twelve feet high with a base of fifty feet, 
and au interior ditch seven feet deep and thirty-five in width. At the gateway, 
however, they are still more imposing ; the walls being sixteen feet high, and 
the ditch thirteen feet deep. The whole area is covered with " gigantic trees 
of a primitive forest ;" and, say Messrs. Squier and Davis, " in entering the 
ancient avenue for the first time, the visitor does not fail to experience a sensa- 
tion of awe, such as he might feel in passing the portals of an Egyptian temple, 
or in gazing upon the silent ruins of Petra of the desert." 

The city of Circleville takes its name from one of these embankments, which, 
however, is no more remarkable than many others. It consists of a square and 
a circle, touching one another ; the .sides of the square being about nine hun- 
dred feet in length, and the circle a little more than a thousand feet in diameter. 
The square had eight doorways, one at each angle, and one in the middle of 
each side, every doorway being covered by a mound. The circle was peculiar 
in having a double embankment. This work, alas ! has been entirely destroyed; 
and many others have also disappeared, or being gradually obliterated by the 
plough. Under these circumstances, we read with pleasure that " the directors 
of the Ohio Land Company, when they took possession of the country at the 
mouth of the Muskingum river in 1788, adopted immediate measures for the 
preservation of these monuments. To their credit be it said, one of their 
earliest oificial acts was the passage of a resolution, which is entered upon the 
journal of their proceedings, reserving the two truncated pyramids and the 
great mound, with a few acres attached to each, as public squares." Such en- 
lightened conduct deserves the thanks of archaeologists, and we sincerely hope 
that the company has prospered. 

Both as being the only example of an enclosure yet observed in Wisconsin, 
and also as having in many respects a great resemblance to a fortified town, 
the ruins of Aztalan are well worthy of attention. They are situated on the 
west branch of Rock river, and were discovered in 1836 by N. F. Hyer, esq., 
who surveyed them hastily, and published a brief description, with a figure, in 
the " Milwaukie Advertiser." In " Silliman's American Journal," No XLIV, is 
a paper on the subject by Mr. Taylor, from which was derived the plan and the 
short account given by Messrs. Squier and Davis.* The most complete de- 
scription is contained in Mr. Lapham's "Antiquities of Wisconsin. "t The name 
"Aztalan" was given to this place by Mr. Hyer, because the Aztecs had a 
tradition that they originally came from a country to the north, which they 
called Aztalan. It is said to be derived from two Mexican words, Atl, water, 
and An, near. " The main feature of these works is an enclosure of earth 
(not brick, as has been erroneously stated) extending around three sides of an 
irregular parallelogram ;" the river " forming the fourth side on the east. The 
space thus enclosed is seventeen acres and two-thirds. The corners are not 

*L. c, p. 131. tP. 41. 



NOETH AMERICAN AECH^OLOGY. 325 

rectangular, and tlie embankment or ridge is not straight." " The ridge form- 
ing the enclosure is G31 feet long at the north end, 1,419 feet long on the west 
side, and 700 feet on the south side ; making a total length of wall of 2,750 
feet. The ridge or wall is about 22 feet wide, and from one foot to five in 
height. The wall of earth is enlarged on the outside, at nearly regular dis- 
tances, by mounds of the same material. They are called buttresses, or 
bastions ; but it is quite clear that they Avere never intended for either" the 
one or the other. They vary from sixty-one to ninety-five feet apart, the 
mean distance being eighty-two feet. Near the southwest angle are two out- 
works, constructed in the same way as the main embankment. 

In many places the earth forming the walls appears to have been burnt 
" Irregular masses of hard reddish clay, full of cavities, bear distinct impi-es- 
sions of straw, or rather wild hay, with which they had been mixed before 
burning." "This is the only foundation for calling these 'brick Avails.' The 
'bricks' were never made into any regular form, and it is even doubtful whether 
the burning did not take place in the wall after it was built." Some of the 
mounds, or buttresses, though forming part of an enclosure, were also used for 
sepulchral purposes, as was proved by their containing skeletons in a sitting 
posture, with fragments of pottery. The highest point inside the enclosure is 
at the southwest corner, and is " occupied by a square truncated moitnd, which 
* * *^ presents the appearance of a pyramid, rising by successive steps like the 
gigantic structures of Slexico." "At the northwest angle of the enclosure is 
another rectangular, truncated, pyramidal elevation, of sixty-five feet level area 
at the top, Avith remains of its graded way, or sloping ascent, at the southwest 
corner, leading also toAvards a ridge that extends in the direction of the river." 

Within the enclosure are some ridges about two feet high, and connected 
with them are several rings, or circles, Avhich are supposed to be the remains of 
mud houses. " Nearly the whole interior of the enclosure appears to have been 
cither excavated or thrown up into mounds and ridges ; the pits and irregular 
excavations being quite numerous over much of the space not occupied by 
mounds." In these excavations and ridges, also, we should be inclined to see 
the ruins of houses. Some years ago a skeleton was found in one of the 
mounds wrapped apparently in cloth of open texture, " like the coarsest linen 
fabric;" but the threads were so entirely rotten, as to make it quite imcertain 
of Avhat material they were made. 

The last Indian occupants of this interesting locality had no tradition as to 
the history or the purpose of these earthAvorks. 

Among the northern tribes of existing Indians there do not appear to be any 
earthworks corresponding to these so-called sacred enclosures. "No sooner, 
however, do we pass to the soutliAvard, and an-ive among the Creeks, Natchez, 
and affiliated Floridiau tribes, than we discover traces of structures which, if 
they do not entirely correspond with the regular earthworks of the west, never- 
theless seem to be somewhat analogous to them."* These tribes, indeed, ap- 
pear to have been more civilized than those to the north, since they were 
agricidtural in their habits, lived in considerable towns, and had a systematized 
religion, so that, in fact, they must have occupied a position, as Avell economically 
as geographically, intermediate between the powerful monarchies of Central 
America and the hunting tribes of the north. The " structures" to which Mr. 
Squier alludes are described by him both in his " Second Memoir," and also in 
the "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi valley," (p. 120.) The " Chunk 
Yards," now or lately in use among the Creeks, and which have only recently 
been abandoned among the Oherokees, are rectangular areas, generally occupy- 
ing the centre of the town, closed at the sides, but with an opening at each end. 
They are sometimes from six to nine hundred feet^n length, being largest in the 



Squier, 1. c, p. 136. 



326 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHAEOLOGY. 

older towns. The area is levelled and slightly sunk, being surrounded by a low 
bank formed of the earth thus obtained. In the centre is a low mound, on 
which stands the Chunk Pole, to the top of which is some object which serves 
as a mark to shoot at. Near each corner at one end is a small pole about 
twelve feet high; these are called the " slave-posts," because in the " good old 
times" captives condemned to the torture were fastened to them. The name 
"Chunk Yard" seems to be derived from an Indian game called " Chunke," 
which was played in them. 

At one end of and just outside this area stands generally a circular eminence, 
with a flat top, upon which is elevated the great Council House. 

At the other end is a flat-topped, square eminence, about as high as the cir- 
cular one just mentioned; "upon this stands the public square." 

These and other accounts given by early travellers among the Indians 
certainly throw much light on the circular and square enclosures ; but some of 
those, classed by Messrs. Sqiaer and Davis under this head, seem to us to be 
the slight fortifications which surrounded villages, and were undoubtedly 
crowned by stockades. We have already seen that the position of the ditch is 
in reality no argument against this view ; nor does the position of the works 
seem conclusive, if we suppose that the works were intended less to stand a 
regular siege than to guard against a sudden attack. 

Sepulchral mounds. — The sepulchral mounds ai-e very numerous. " To say 
that they are innumerable, in the ordinary sense of the term, would be no exag- 
geration. They may literally be numbered by thousands and tens of thousands." 
They vary from six to eight feet in height ; generally stand outside the enclo- 
sures; are often isolated, but often also in groups; they are usually round, but 
sometimes elliptical or pear-shaped. They cover generally a single skeleton, 
which, however, is often burnt. Occasionally there is a stone cist, but urn burial 
also prevailed to considerable extent, especially in southern States. The con- 
tracted position of the corpse seems to be as usual as in the more ancient burials 
of Europe. Implements both of stone and metal occur frequently ; but while 
personal ornaments, such as bracelets, perforated plates of copper, beads of 
bone, shell, or metal, and similar objects, are veiy common, weapons are but 
rarely found ; a fact which, in the opinion of Dr. Wilson, " indicates a totally 
different condition of society and mode of thought" from that of the present 
Indian. Plates of mica are very generally present, and in some cases the 
skeleton is entirely covered by them. 

What now is the "idea" implied in these often gigantic tumuli, and in the 
disposition of the corpse ? The reason suggested by M. Troyon for the con- 
tracted position of the body has already been mentioned in this journal. Dr. 
Wilson appears to regard the tumulus as a simple development of that little 
heap of earth " displaced by interment, which still to thousand, suffices as the 
most touching memorial of the dead." Probable as these suggestions may 
appear, Ave confess that if we were to express an opinion we should lean rather 
to the opinion of the illustrious Swedish antiquary, Prof. Nillson, and imagine 
that the grave was but an adaptation, a copy, or a development of a dwelling- 
place. Unable to imagine a future altogether different from the present, or a 
world, quite unlike our own, primitive nations seem always to have buried with 
their dead those things which in life they valued most ; with ladies their orna- 
ments; with chiefs their weapons, and sometimes also thqir wives. They burned 
the house with its owner; the grave was literally the dwelling of the dead. 
According to Prof. Nillson, when a great man died he was placed in his favorite 
seat, food and drink were arranged before him, his weapons were placed at hand, 
and his house was closed, sometimes forever, sometimes to be opened once more, 
when his wife or his child;^en had joined him in the land of spii-its. The 
ancient tumuli in northern Europe, which never contain metal, consist usually 
of a passage leading into a central vault, in which the dead "sit." At God- 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHiEOLOGY. 327 

havn, in tlie year 1830, a grave of this kind was opened, and numerous skeletons 
were fonnd sitting on low seats around the walls, each with their weapons and 
ornaments. The description given by Captain Graah of the Eskimo "winter- 
house," and Scoresby's account of those belonging to the Greenlanders, agree 
closely with these graves, even to the fact that the passage points generally to 
the south or east, but never to the north. In a few cases tumuli have been 
examined which contained weapons, implements, ornaments, pottery, &c., but 
no human bones; in short, every indication of life, but no trace of death. Ernan 
also tells us that the graves of Tartars resemble their dwellings, a statement 
Avhich Nillson apparently considers to be true of all primitive nations. In the 
Sulu islands it is the custom to desert any house in which a great man has died,* 
and Captain Cook mentions his having seen at Mooa certain houses raised on 
mounds, in which he was told "the dead had been buried." 

Certain small tumuli found in America have already been regarded as the 
remains of mud villages. Mr. Dille t has examined and described some small 
tumuli observed by him in Missouri. He dug into several, but never succeeded 
in finding anything except coals and a few pieces of rude pottery, whence he 
concluded that they were the remains of mud houses. | The Maudans, Mina- 
tarees, and some other tribes, also built their huts of earth, resting on a frame- 
work of wood. 

On the other hand, there are some tumuli to which it wottld seem that this 
explanation is quite inapplicable, and which are full of human remains. This 
was long supposed to be the case with the great Grave Creek Mound, which, 
indeed, was positively described by Atwater§ to be full of human remains. This 
has turned out to be an error, but the statement is not the less true as regards 
other mounds. In conjunction with them may be mentioned the "bone pits," 
many of which are described by Mr. Squier.|| "One of these pits, discovered 
some years ago in the town of Cambria, Niagara county, was estimated to con- 
tain the bones of several thousand individuals. Another which I visited in the 
town of Clarence, Erie county, contained not less than four hundred skeletons." 
A tumulus described by Mr. Jefferson in his "Notes on Virginia" was estimated 
to contain the skeletons of a thousand individuals, but in this case the number 
was perhaps exaggerated. 

The description given by various old writers of the solemn "Festival of the 
Dead" satisfactorily explains these large collections of bones. It seems that 
every eight or ten years the Indians met at some place previously chosen ; that 
they dug up their dead, collected the bones together, and laid them in one com- 
mon burial place, depositing with them tine skins and other valuable articles. 

Sacrificial mounds. — "The name of sacrificial mounds," says Dr. Wilson, 
"has been conferred on a class of ancient monuments, altogether peculiar to the 
New World, and highly illustrative of the rites and customs of the ancient races 
of the mounds. This remarkable class of mounds has been very carefully 
explored, and their most noticeable characteristics are, their almost invariable 
occurrence within enclosures; their regular construction in uniform layers of 
gravel, earth, and sand, disposed alternately in strata conformable to the shape 
of the mound ; and their covering a symmetrical altar of burnt clay or stone, on 
which are deposited numerous relics, in all instances exhibiting traces, more or 
less abundant, of their having been exposed to the action of fire." The so-called 
"altar" is a basin, or table, of burnt clay, carefully formed into a symmetrical 
form, but varying much both in shape and size. Some are round, some elliptical, 
and others, squares or parallelograms, while in size they vary from two feet to 

«St. John's Life in the Forests of the Far East, Vol. ii,p. 217. 

t Smithsonian Contributions, Vol. i, p. 1.36. 

t Archa3ologia Americana, Vol. i, p. 223. 

§ See also Lapham, 1. c, p. 8U. 

II L. c, p. 25, 56, 57, 63, 71, 73, 106, 107, Squier and Davis, 1. c, p. 118, &c. 



328 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

fifty feet by twelve or fifteen. The usual dimensions, however, are from five to 
eight feet. They are almost always found within sacred enclosures ; of the 
whole number examined by Messrs. Squier and Davis, there were only four 
which were exterior to the walls of euclosm-es, and these were but a few rods 
distant iiom them. 

The "altar" is always on a level with the natural soil, and bears traces of 
long-continued heat ; in one instance, where it appeaus to have been formed of 
Band, instead of clay, the sand for the depth of two inches is discoloured as if 
fatty matter of some sort had been burned on it. In this case a second deposit 
of sand had been placed on the first, and upon this stones a little larger than a 
hen's egg were arranged so as to form a pavement, which strongly reminds us 
of the ancient hearths in the Danish Kjkokenmuddings. 

In a few instances traces of timber were found above the altar. Thus in one 
of the twenty-six tumuli forming the "Mound City," on the Scioto river, were 
found a number of pieces of timber four or five feet long, and six or eight inches 
thick. " These pieces had been of nearly uniform length ; and this circumstance, 
joined to the position in which they occurred in respect to each other and to the 
altar, would almost justify the inference that they had supported some funeral 
or sacrificial pile."* The contents of these mounds vary very much. The one 
just mentioned contained a quantity of pottery and many implements of stone 
and copper, all of which had been subjected to a strong heat. The pottery 
may have formed a dozen vessels of moderate size. The copper articles 
consisted of tAVO chisels, and about twenty thin strips. About fifty or a 
hundred stone arrow-heads, some flakes, and two carved pipes, completed the 
list of articles found in this interesting tumulus. In another mound nearly two 
hundred pipes were buried. Generally speaking, the deposit is homogeneous. 
"That is to say, instead of finding a large variety of relics, ornaments, weapons, 
and other articles, such as go to make up the possessions of a barbarian dig- 
nitary, we find upon one altar jji/^t^s only, upon another a single mass of galena, 
while the next one has a quantity of pottery, or a collection of spear-heads, or 
else is destitute of remains, except perhaps a thin layer of carbonaceous material. 
Such could not possibly be the case upon the above hypothesis, for the spear, the 
arrows, the pipe, and the other implements, and personal ornaments of the dead, 
would then be found in connexion with each other."t 

This conclusion does not seem to us altogether satisfactory; and although 
these altar-containing mounds differ in so many respects from the above-described 
tumuli, we still feel disposed to regard them as sepulchral rather than sacrificial. 
Not having, however, had the advantage of examining them for ourselves, we 
throw this out as a suggestion, rather than express it as an opinion. We confess 
that we feel much difficulty in understanding why "altars" should be covered up 
hi this manner; we can call to mind no analogous case. On the other hand, if 
Prof. Nillson's suggestion in relation to the ancient tumuli be correct, the long- 
continued fire will ofier no difficulty ; while the wooden constructions and the 
burnt bones will all be explicable on the hypothesis that we have before us a 
sepulchre, rather than a temple. 

Nor does the "homogeneousness" of the deposits found in these mounds 
appear so decisive to us as to Messrs. Squier and Davis. Take, for instance, the 
cases in which pipes are found. The execution of these is so good that "pipe- 
carving" was no doubt a profession ; the division of labor must have already 
begun. Exactly the same feeling which would induce them to bury weapons 
with the dead hunter, in order that he might supply himself with food in Hades 
as on earth; that feeling which among some ancient nations suggested the 
placing of money in the grave, would account not only for the presence of these 
pipes, but also for their number. The hunter could use but few weapons, and 

* Squier and Davis, 1. c, p. 151. t Ditto, p. 160. 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 329 

must depend for success mainlj on Lis strength and skill; wliereas tlie pipe- 
seller, if lie could use a pipe at all in the grave, might render his whole stock in 
trade available. 

If, therefore, "the accumulated carbonaceous matter, like that formed by the 
ashes of leaves or grass," which suggests to Prof. Wilson "the graceful offerings 
of the first fruits of the earth, so consonant to the milder forms Oi ancient sacrifice 
instituted in recognition of the Lord of the Harvest," seems to us only the frame- 
work of a house, or the material of a funeral pyre ; on the other hand, we avoid 
the conclusion to which he is driven, that on "the altars of the mould-builders, 
human sacrifices were made; and that within their sacred enclosures were 
practised rites not less hideous than those which characterized the worship 
which the ferocious Aztecs are affirmed to have regarded as most acceptable to 
their sanguinary gods." 

Temple mounds. — The class of mounds, called by Messrs. Squier and Davis 
"Temple mounds," "are pyramidal structures, truncated, and generally having 
graded avenues to their tops. In some instances they are terraced, or have 
successive stages. But whatever their form, whether round, oval, octangular, 
square, or oblong, they have invariably flat or level tops, of greater or less area." 
These mounds much resemble the Teocallis of Mexico, and had probably a 
similar origin. They are rare in the north, though examples occur even as far 
as Lake Superior, but become more and more numerous as we pass down the 
Mississippi, and especially on approaching the Gulf, where they constitute the 
most numerous and important portion of the ancient remains. Some of the 
largest, however, are situated in the north. One of the most remarkable is at 
Cahokia, in Illinois. This gigantic mound is stated to be seven hundred feet 
long, Jive hundred feet wide at the base, and ninety feet in height. Its solid 
contents have been roughly estimated at twenty millions of cubic feet. 

Probably, however, these mounds were not used as temples only, but also as 
sites for dwellings, especially for those of the chiefs. We are told that among 
the Natchez Indians "the temples and the dwellings of the chiefs were raised 
upon mounds, and for every new chief a new mound and dwelling were con- 
structed." Again : Garcilego de la Vega, in his History of Florida, quoted by 
Mr. Haven,* says, "The town and house of the cacique of Osachile are similar 
to those of all other caciques in Florida, and, therefore, it seems best to give one 
description that will apply generally to all the capitals, and all the houses of 
the chiefs in Florida. I say, then, that the Indians endeavor to place their 
towns upon elevated places ; but because such situations are rare in Florida, or 
that they find a difficulty in procuring suitable materials for building, they raise 
eminences in this manner. They choose a place to which they bring a quantity 
of earth, which they elevate into a kind of platform two or three pikes in height, 
(from eighteen to twenty-five feet,) of which the flat top is capable of holding 
ten or twelve, fifteen or twenty houses, to lodge the cacique, his family, and 
suite." 

Animal mounds. — ^Not the least remarkable of the American antiquities are 
the animal mounds, which are principally, though not exclusively, found in 
Wisconsin. In this district " thousands of examples occur of gigantic basso- 
relievos of men, beasts, birds, and reptiles, all wrought with persevering labor 
on the surface of the soil," while enclosures and works of defence are almost 
entirely wanting, the "ancient city of Aztalan" bemg, as is supposed, the only 
example of the former class. 

The "Animal Mounds" were first observed by Mr. Lapham in 1836, and 
described in the newspapers of the day, but the first account of them in any 
scientific journal was that by Mr. R. C Taylor, in the American Journal of 
Science and Art, for April, 1838. In 1843 a longer memoir, by Mr. S. Taylor, 

*L. c, p. 57. 



330 NOETH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

appeared in the same journal. Professor J. Locke gave some account of them 
in a " Report on the Mineral Lands of the United States," presented to Con- 
gress in 1840, Messrs Squier and Davis devoted to the same subject a part of 
their work on the "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley;" and finally, 
the seventh volume of the Smithsonian Contributions contains the work, by Mr. 
Lapham, which we have placed at the head of this article. Dr. Wilson does 
not appear to have made any original observations on this branch of the subject, 
but in a chapter on "Symbolic Mounds " he has given an interesting summary 
derived from these sources. 

Mr. Lapham gives a map showing the distribution of these curious earth- 
works. They appear to be most numerous in the southern counties of Wiscon- 
sin, and extend from the Mississippi to Lake Michigan, following generally the 
courses of the river, and being especially numerous along the great Indian trail 
or war-path from Lake Michigan, near Milwaukie, to the Mississippi, above 
Prairie du Chien. This, however, does not prove any connexion between the 
present Indians and the mounds, as the same line has been adopted as the route 
of the United States military road. 

The mounds themselves not only represent animals, such as men, buffaloes, 
elks, bears, otters, wolves, raccoons, birds, serpents, lizards, turtles, and frogs, 
but also some inanimate objects ; if at least the American archaeologists are right 
in regarding some of them as crosses, tobacco-pipes, &c. 

Many of the representations are spirited and correct, but others, probably 
through the action of time, are less definite ; one, for instance, near the village 
of Muscoda, may be either "a bird, a bow and arrow, or the human figure." 
Their height varies from one to four feet, sometimes, however, rising to six feet; 
and as a "regular elevation of six inches can be readily traced upon the level 
prairies" of the west, their outlines are generally distinctly defined whei'e they 
occupy favorable positions. It seems pi-obable that many of the details have 
disappeared under the action of rain and vegetation. At present a "man" con- 
sists generally of a head and body, two long arms and two short legs, no other 
details being visible. The "biixls" differ from the "men" principally in the 
absence of legs. The so-called "lizards," which are among the most common 
forms, have a head, two legs, and a long tail ; the side view being represented, 
as is, indeed, the case with most of the quadrupeds. 

One remarkable group in Dale county, close to the Great Indian trail, con- 
sists of a man with extended arms, seven more or less elongated mounds, one 
tumulus and six quadrupeds. The length of the human figure is one hundred 
and twenty-five feet, and it is one hundred and forty feet from the extremity of 
one arm to that of the other. The quadrupeds vary from ninety to a hundred 
and twenty-six feet in length. 

At Waukesha are a number of mounds, tumuli, and animals, including several 
"lizards," a very fine "bird," and a magnificent "turtle." "This, when first 
observed, was a very fine specimen of the art of mound-building, Avith its grace- 
ful curves, the feet projecting back and forward, and the tail, with its gi-adual 
slope, so acutely pointed, that it was impossible to ascertain precisely where it 
terminated. The body was fifty-six feet in length, and the tail two hundred 
and fifty ; the height six feet." This group of mounds is now, alas ! covered 
with buildings. "A dwelling-house stands on the body of the turtle, and a 
Catholic church is built upon the tail." 

"But," says Mr. Lapham, "the most remarkable collection of lizards and 
turtles yet discovered is on the school section, about a mile and a half southeast 
from the village of Pewaukee. This consists of seven turtles, two lizards, four 
oblong mounds, and one of the remarkable excavations before alluded to. One 
of the turtle mounds, partially obliterated by the road, has a length of four hun- 
dred and fifty feet ; being nearly double the usual dimensions. Three of them 
are remarkable for their curved tails, a feature here first observed." 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHiEOLOGY. 331 

In several places a very curious variation occurs. The animals, with the 
usual form and size, are represented not in relief, but in intaglio ; not by a mound, 
but by an excavation. 

The few "animal mounds" which have been observed out of Wisconsin differ 
in many respects from the ordinary type. Near Granville, in Ohio, on a high 
spur of land, is an earthwork known in the neighborhood as the "Alligator." 
It has a head and body, four sprawling legs, and a curled tail. The total length 
is two hundred and fifty feet ; the breadth of the body forty feet ; and the length 
of the legs thirty-six feet. "The head, shoulders, and rump, are more elevated 
than the other parts of the body, an attempt having evidently been made to pre- 
serve the proportions of the object copied." The average height is four feet, at 
the shoulders six. Still more remarkable, however, is the great serpent in Adams 
county, Ohio. It is situated on a high spur of land, which ris(!S a hundred and 
fifty feet above Brush creek. " Conforming to the curve of the hill, and occupy- 
ing its very summit, is the serpent, its head resting near the point, and its body 
winding back for seven hundred feet, in graceful undulations, terminating in a 
triple coil at the tail. The entire length, if extended, would be not less than one 
thousand feet. The accompanying plan, laid down from accurate survey, can 
alone give an adequate conception of the outline of the work, which is clearly 
and boldly defined, the embankment being upwards of five feet in height by 
thirty feet base at the centre of the body, but diminishing somewhat toward the 
head and tail. The neck of the serpent is stretched out, and slightly curved, 
and its mouth is opened wide, as if in the act of swallowing or ejecting an oval 
figure, which rests partially within the distended jaws. This oval is formed by 
an embankment of earth, without any perceptible opening, four feet in height, 
and is perfectly regular in outline, its transverse and conjugate diameters being 
one hundred and sixty and eighty feet respectively." 

When, why, or by whom these remarkable works were erected, as yet we 
know not. The present Indians, though they look upon them with reverence, 
can throw no light upon their origin. Nor do the contents of the mounds them- 
selves assist us in this inquiry. Several of them have been opened, and " in the 
process of grading the streets of Milwaukie " "many of the mounds were entirefy 
removed," but the only result has been to show that they are not sepulchral, 
and that, excepting by accident, they contain no implement or ornament. 

Under these circumstances speculation would be useless ; we can but wait and 
hope that time and perseverance may solve the problem, and explain the nature 
of these remarkable and mysterious monuments. 

INSCRIPTIONS. 

There is one class of objects which I have not yet mentioned, and which yet 
ought not to be left entirely unnoticed. 

The most remarkable of these is the celebrated Dighton Rock, on the east 
bank of the Taunton river. Its history, and the various conclusions which have 
been derived from it, are very amusingly given by Dr. Wilson.* In 1783 the 
Eev. Ezra Stiles, D.U., president of Yale College, when preaching before the 
governor of the State of Connecticut, appealed to this rock, inscribed, as he be- 
lieved, with Phoenician characters, for a proof that the Indians were descended 
from Canaan, and were, therefore, accursed. Count de Gebelin regarded it as a 
Carthaginian inscription. In the eighth volume of the " Archaiologia " Colonel 
Vallency endeavors to prove that it is Siberian; while certain Danish antiquaries 
regarded it as Runic, and thought that they could read the name " Thorfinn," 
" with an exact, though by no means so manifest, enumeration of the associates 
who, according to the Saga, accompanied Karlsefne's expedition to Vinland, 
in A. D. 1007." Finally, Mr. Schoolcraft submitted a copy of it to Chingwauk 

* Vol. ii, p. 172. 



332 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

an intelligent Indian cliief, wlio " interpreted it as tlie record of an Indian triumph 
over some rival native tribe," but without, we believe, offering any opinion as to 
its antiquity. 

In the "Grave Creek Mound" was found a small oval disk of white sandstone, 
on which were engraved twenty-two letters. Mr. Schoolcraft, who has especially 
studied this relic, finally concludes, after corresponding with many American 
and European archaeologists, according to Dr. Wilson, that of these twenty 
letters, four corresponded with ancient Greek,* four with the Etruscan, five with 
the old Northern Runes, six with the ancient Gaelic, seven with the old Erse, 
ten with the Phoenician, fourteen with the Anglo-Saxon, and sixteen with the 
Celtiberic; besides which possibly equivalents may be found in the old Hebrew. 
"It thus appears that this ingenious little stone is even more accommodating 
than the Dighton Rock in adapting itself to all conceivable theories of ante- 
columbian colonization." A stone of such doubtful character could prove little 
under any circumstances ; but it must also be mentioned that " Dr. James W. 
Clemens communicated to Dr. Morton all the details of the exploration of the 
Grave Creek Mound ; * * * without any reference to the discovery of the 
inscribed stone. Nor was it till the excavated vault had been fitted up by its 
proprietor for exhibition, to all who cared to pay for the privilege of admission, 
that the marvellous inscription opportunely came to light to add to the attrac- 
tions of the show." 

One or two other equally doubtful cases are upon record ; but upon the whole 
we may safely assert that there is no reason to suppose that the nations of 
America had developed for themselves anything corresponding to an alphabet. 
The picture-writing of the Aztecs and the Quipa of the Peruvians was replaced 
among the North American Indians by the " wampum." This curious substi- 
tute for writing consisted of variously-colored beads generally worked upon 
leather. One very interesting example is the belt of wampum " delivered by 
the Lenni Lenape Sachems to the founder of Pennsylvania, at the great treaty, 
under the elm-tree at Shachamox in 1682." It is still preserved in the collec- 
tion of the Historical Society at Philadelphia, and consists of "eighteen strings 
of wampum, formed of white and violet beads worked upon leather thongs," 
the whole forming a belt twenty-eight inches long and two and a half broad. 
" On this five patterns are Avorked in violet beads on a white ground, and in the 
centre Penn is represented taking the hand of the Indian Sachem." The large 
number of beads found in the tumuli were, perhaps, in a similar manner intended 
to commemorate the actions and virtues of the dead. 

THE MOUND-BUILDERS. 

Just as the wigwam of the recent Mandan consisted of an outer layer of 
earth supported on a wooden framework, so also, in the ancient sepulchral tumuli, 
the body was protected only by beams and planks, so that when these latter 
decayed, the earth sank in and crushed the skeleton within. Partly from this 
cause, and partly from the habit of burying in ancient tumuli, which makes it 
sometimes difiicult to distinguish the primary from secondary interments, it hap- 
pens that from so many thousand tumuli we have only three skulls which indis- 
putably belong to the ancient race. These are decidedly brachycephalic ; but 
it is evident that we must not attempt to build much upon so slight a basis. 

No proof of a knowledge of letters, no trace of a burnt brick have yet been 
discovered, and, so far as we may judge from their arms, ornaments, and pottery, 
the mound-builders closely resembled some at least of the recent Indian tribes ; 
and the earthworks resemble in form, if they diifer in magnitude from those still, 
or until lately, in use. Yet this very magnitude is sufficient to show that, at 
some early period, the great river valleys of the United States must have been 

* Vol. ii, p. 180. 



NORTH AMEEICAN AECEL^OLOGY. 333 

very mucli more densely populated tlian they were when first discovered by 
Europeans. The immense number of small earthworks, and the mounds, "which 
may be counted by thousands and tens of thousands," might indeed be supposed 
to indicate either a long time or a great population ; but in other cases we have 
no such alternative. The Newark constructions ; the mound near Florence, in 
Alabama, which is foiiy-five feet in height by four hundred and forty feet in 
circi;mference at the base, with a level area at the summit of one hundred and 
fifty feet in circumference ; the still greater mound on the Etowah river, also in 
Alabama, which has a height of more than seventy-five feet, with a circumfer- 
ence of twelve hundred feet at the base, and one hundred and forty at the sum- 
mit; the embankments at the mouth of the Scioto river, which are estimated to 
be twenty miles iu length ; the great mound at Selsertown, Mississippi, which 
covers six acres of ground ; and the truncated pyramid at Cahokia, to which we 
have already alluded ; these works, and many others which might have been 
quoted, indicate, we think, a population large and stationary, for which hunting 
cannot have supplied enough food, and which must, therefore, have relied in a 
great measure upon agriculture for its support. "There is not," says Messrs. 
Squier and Davis, "and there was not in the sixteenth century, a single tribe of 
Indians (north of the semi-civilized nations) between the Atlantic and the Pacific, 
which had means of subsistence sufiicient to enable them to apply, for such pur- 
pases, the unproductive labor necessary for the work ; nor was there any in such 
a social state as to compel the labor of the people to be thus applied." We know 
also that many, if not most of the Indian tribes, still cultivated the ground to a 
certain extent, and there is some evidence that even within historic times this 
was more the case than at present. Thus De Nonville estimates the amount of 
Indian corn destroyed by him in four Seneca villages at 1,200,000 quarters. 

Mr. Lapham* has brought forward some ingenious arguments for thinking that 
the forests of Wisconsin were at no very distant period much less general than 
at present. In the first place, the largest trees are probably not more than five 
hundred years old; and large tracts are now covered with "young trees, where 
there are no traces of antecedent growth." 

Again, every year many trees are blown down, and frequent storms pass 
through the forest, throwing down nearly eveiything before them. Mr. Laphara 
gives a map of these windfalls in one district ; they are very conspicuous, firstly, 
because the trees, having a certain quantity of earth entangled among their roots, 
continue to vegetate for several years ; and, secondly, because even Avheu the 
trees themselves have died and rotted away, the earth so torn up forms little 
mounds, Avhich are often mistaken by the inexperienced for Indian graves. 
"From the paucity of these little 'tree-mounds,' we infer that no very great 
antiquity can be assigned to the dense forests of Wisconsin, for during a long 
period of time, with no material change of climate, we would expect to find great 
numbers of these little monuments of ancient storms scattered everywhere over 
the ground." 

But there is other more direct evidence of ancient agi-icultm-e. In many places 
the ground is covered with small mammillary elevations, which are known as 
Indian corn-hills. "They are without order of arrangement, being scattered 
over the ground with the greatest irregularity. That these hillocks were formed 
in the manner indicated by their name is inferred from the present custom of 
the Indians. The corn is planted in the same spot each successive year, and 
the soil is gradually brought up to the size of a little hill by the annual addi- 
tions." t But Mr. Lapham has also found traces of an earlier and more systematic 
cultivation. These consist " of low, parallel ridges, as if corn had been planted 
in drills. They average four feet in width, twenty-five of them having been 
counted in the space of a hundred feet ; and the depth of the walk between them 

*» L. c, p. 90. t Lapham, 1. c, p. 19. 



334 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

is about six inches. These appearances, which are here denominated 'ancient 
garden-beds,' indicate an earlier and more perfect system of cultivation than that 
which now prevails ; for the present Indians do not appear to possess the ideas 
of taste and order necessary to enable them to arrange objects in consecvitive 
rows. Traces of this kind of cultivation, though not very abundant, are found 
in several other parts of the State." (Wisconsin.) 

Date. — In the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley it is stated that 
no earthwork has ever been found on the first or lowest terrace of any of the 
great rivers, and that "this observation is confirmed by all who have given 
attention to the subject." If true, this would, indeed, have indicated a great 
antiquity, but in his subsequent woi*k Mr. Squier informs us that " they occur 
indiscrimiuately upon the first and upon the superior terraces, as also upon the 
islands of the lakes and rivers." Messrs. Squier and Davis* are of opinion that 
the decayed state of the skeletons found in the mounds may enable us to form 
"some approximate estimate of their remote antiquity," especially when we con- 
sider that the earth around them "is wonderfully compact and dry, and that the 
conditions for their preservation are exceedingly favorable." "In the barrows 
of the Ancient Britons," they add, "entire well-preserved skeletons are found, 
although possessing an undoubted antiquity of at least eighteen himdred years." 
Dr. Wilsont also attributes much importance to this argument, which, in his 
opinion, "furnisljes a stronger evidence of their great antiquity than any of the 
proofs that have been derived either from the age of a subsequent forest growth, 
or the changes wrought on the river terraces where they most abound." This 
argument, if it proves anything, certainly requires a much longer time than 
eighteen hundred years, and carries us back, therefore, far beyond any antiquity 
indicated by the forests. These, nevertheless, have also a tale to tell. Thus 
Captain Peckf observed near the Ontonagon river, and at a depth of twenty- 
five feet, some stone mauls and other implements in contact with a vein of copper. 
Above these was the fallen trunk of a large cedar, aiid " over all grew a hem- 
lock tree, the roots of which spread entirely above the fallen tree " * * * 
and indicated, in his estimation, a growth of not less than three centuries, to 
which must then be added the age of the cedar, which indicates a still "longer 
succession of centuries, subsequent to that protracted period diuing which the 
deserted trench was slowly filled up with accumulations of many winters." 

The late President Harrison, in an address to the Historical Society of Ohio, 
made some very philosophical remarks on this subject, which are quoted by Messrs. 
Squier and Davis. § "The process," he says, "by which nature restores the 
forest to its original state, after being once cleared, is extremely sIoav. The rich 
lands of the west are, indeed, soon covered again, but the character of the growth 
is entirely different, and continues so for a long period. In several places upon 
the Ohio, and upon the farm which I occupy, clearings were made in the first 
settlement of the country, and subsequently abandoned and suffered to grow up. 
Somt^ of these new forests are now sure of fifty years' growth, but they have 
made so little progress towards attaining the appearance of the immediately con- 
tiguous fin-est as to induce any man of reflection to determine that at least ten 
times fifty years must elapse before their complete assimilation can be effected. 
We find in the ancient works all that variety of trees which give stich unrivalled 
beauty to our forests in natural proportions. The first growth on the same 
kind of land, once cleared and then abandoned to nature, on the contrary, is 
nearly homogeneous, often stinted to one or two, at most three kinds of timber. 
If the ground has been cultivated, the yellow locust will thickly spring up ; if 
not cultivated, the black and white walntit will be the prevailing growth. * * 

* * * Of what immense age. then, must be the works so often referred 

« L. c, p. 168. + L. c, vol.i, p. 359. 

\ WilLson, c, vol. i, p. 256. § L. c, p. 306. 



NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 335 

to, covered, as they arc, by at least the second growth, after the primitive forest 
state was regained 1" 

We get another indication of antiquity in the "garden-beds," which we have 
ah'eady described. This system of cultivation has long been replaced by the 
simple and irregular "corn-hills;" and yet,' according to Mr. Lapliam*, the garden- 
beds are much more recent than the mounds, across which they extend in the 
same manner as over the adjoining grounds. If, therefore, these mounds belong 
to the same era as those which are covered with wood, we get thus indications 
of three periods : the tirst, that of the mounds themselves ; the second, that of the 
garden-beds ; and the third, that of the forest. 

But American agriculture was not imported from abroad. It resulted from, 
and in return rendered possible, the gradual development of American semi- 
civilization. This is proved by the fact that the grains of the Old World were 
entirely abi^ent, and that American agriculture was founded on the maize, an 
American plant. Thus, therefore, we appear to have indications of four long 
periods : 

1. That in which, from an original barbarism, the American tribes developed 
a knowledge of agriculture and a power of combination. 

2. That in which the mounds were erected and other great works undertaken. 

3. The age of the "garden-beds," which occupy some at least of the mounds. 
Hence it is evident that this cultivation was not until after the mounds had lost 
their sacred character in the eyes of tlu; occupants of the soil ; for it can hardly 
be supposed that works executed with so much care would be thus desecrated 
by their builders. 

And 4. The period in which man relapsed into barbarism, and the spots which 
had been first forest, then (perhaps) sacred monuments, and, thirdly, cultivated 
ground, relapsed into forest once more. 

But even if we attribute to these changes all the importance which has ever 
been claimed for them, they will not require an antiquity of more than three 
thousand years. We do not, of course, deny that the period may have been 
very much greater or very much less, but, in our opinion at least, it need not be 
greater. At the same time there are other observations which, if they shall 
eventually prove to be correct, would indicate a very much greater antiquity. 

One of these is an account " given of a mastodon found in Gasconade county, 
Missouri, Avhicli had apparently been stoned to death by the Indians, and then 
partially consumed by tire. The pieces of rock, weighing from two to twenty- 
tive pounds each, which must have been brought from a distance of four or five 
hundred yards, ' were,' says the narrator, ' evidently thrown with the intention 
of hitting some object.' Intermixed with burned wood and burned bones were 
broken spears, axes, knives, &c., of stone." This statement, which, if true, is 
of the highest importance, is given by Mr. Haven t without a word of caution, 
and is repeated by Dr. Wilson.t Both these gentlemen refer to the American 
Journal of Sciences and Art, (first series, vol. xxxvi, p. 199,) as if th(!y were 
quoting from an article communicated to that respectable journal. Now, the fact 
is that the only authority for the statement is an anonymous correspondent of 
the Philadelphia Presbyterian. The editor of the American Journal, while re- 
printing the communication, inserted a notice requesting the author to make 
himself known, and to give some more particulars. I cannot, however, ascertain 
that, in answer to this appeal, any one came forward to take upon himself the 
responsibility of so important an observation. 

Nor is this all. The original communication to the Philadelphia Presbyterian 
never alludes to the mastodon at all, but refers the skeleton to the mammoth; 
and the mastodon was first suggested by the editor of the American Journal. 
Under these circumstances it certainly seems to us that some better evidence 

* 1,. c, p. 19. tL. c, p. 142. X L. c. v. i., p. 112. 



336 NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. 

will be required before we can be expected to believe that any mastodon was 
ever stoned to deatli by North American Indians. 

There are, indeed, upon record other facts of a similar tendency. We have, 
however, already exceeded our limits, and we will therefore defer the considera- 
tion of them to some future opportunity. 

If, however, the facts above recorded justify the conclusion that parts at least 
of North America once supported a numerous and agricultural population, thon 
we cannot but ask. What fatal cause has destroyed this earlier civilization ? 
Why are these fortifications forsaken — these cities in ruins 1 How were the 
populous nations which once inhabited the rich American valleys reduced to the 
poor tribes of savages which the Europeans found there ? History suggests by 
luxury or war. And the archseologist, if he perceive little evidence of the first, 
finds abundant proof of the second. 



HISTORICAL SKETCH 

OF THE 

ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

By M. FLOURENS, 

PERPETUAL SECRETARY, ETC. TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSOMAX INSTITU- 
TION, BY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



The Academy of Sciences of Paris was established in 1666, at a time when 
Italy had already seen the rise and fall of its Academy of the Lyncci, (founded 
at Rome in 1603, by the Prince Cesi, and extinct after his death,) and could 
still boast its Academy del Civicnto, founded at Florence in 1651. Germany, 
too, had its Academy Natiirm Curiosorum, founded in 1652, and England itp 
Royal Society, deiinitely established in 1660, but existing for some time pre- 
vious. In the order of legal date, therefore, our own Academy is but the fifth, 
yet had it existed in a free or private form before it received a regular organi- 
zation b>j order of the King. As a few men of letters, meeting in 1629 alt the 
private residence of Courart, "without noise or pomp," as Pelisson tells us. 
"and solely with a view to the pleasures of intellectual association and a rational 
life," laid the foundation of the French Academy, (formally organized by Car- 
dinal Richelieu, in 1635,) so the Academy of Sciences commenced in the 
assembling of a small company of savants at the houses, first of Monmor, and 
afterwards of Thevenot and Bourdelot. Here experiments and new discoveries 
were examined, and hither, as these meetings soon became celebrated, learned 
foreigners resorted ; here the Italian Boccone presented his observations on the 
coral and shells of Sicily, and the Danish Stenon, a man of genius and an 
anatomist and geologist of great penetration, read his ingenious discourse on the 
anatomy of the brain. 

"It is perhaps these assemblages of Paris," says Fontenelle, "which have 
given rise to many of the academies in the rest of Europe. It is, at any rate, 
certain," he adds, "that the English gentlemen who laid the first foundations of 
the Royal Society of London had travelled in France and been received in the 
houses of MM. Monmor and Thevenot." 

I cite these words of Fontenelle without attaching to them, as may well be 
believed, too much importance. Dating from the middle of the seventeenth 
century, a new taste in philosophy had spread itself almost everywhere, and 
had as generally given rise to Academies.* As soon as the learned world began 
to grow weary of scholastics, that philosophy of words which had so long hin- 
dorcd it from perceiving t\w j>hilosophy of things, (we owe these designations to 
Fontenelle,) as soon as it became tired of studying nature only in the ancients, 
;i3id chose to study nature herself. Academies sprung into existence. 

Academies are the offspring of the intellectual spirit of moden;^ times. This 
modern spirit dates from Bacon, Galileo, Descartes ; it is propagated through 

'Amonj^ those of the above mentioned and the succeeding; century the academy of Berlin 
dates from the year 1700; those of St. Petersburg, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Madrid, «&jj., 
belong to the commencement of the eighteenth century. 
22 s 



338 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

Leibnitz and Newton ; it makes itself popular in Fontenelle, d'Alembert, Vol- 
taire. The history I am writing is that of the spirit of the sciences from Bacon 
and Descartes to our own times. 

Bacon offers us, in his New Atlantis, a perfect image of our academies. In 
that work there is an institute of Solomon. It is an academy lilvC those of our 
day. We might think that in the latter we saw the Atlantis of Bacon carried 
into effect; "the dream of a savant realized," as Fontenelle says in his Eloge 
of Marsigli. In the institute of Solomon the members are distributed into sec- 
tions, and each section corresponds to a science. Three members occupy 
themselves with mechanics, three with physics, three with natural history, &c. ; 
some travel in foreign countries to bring thence machines, instruments, models, 
(experiments, and observations of every sort ; there are some whose sole em- 
ployment is to try new experiments, &c. "The end of our foundation," says 
one of the members, "is the knowledge of causes and secret motions of things, 
and the enlarging of the bounds of human empire to the effecting of all things 
possible." 

Fontenelle paints in his own manner — that is, with expressions of which each 
has its point and its import — the new spirit which endowed us with academies. 
"We have abandoned," he says, "a sterile system of physics, which has stood for 
centuries always at the same point. The reign of Avords and of terms is past ; 
we seek now for things. Principles are established which we understand. 
We follow them, and hence we advance. Authority has ceased to have more 
weight than reason. What was received without contradiction, because it had 
long been received, is now examined and often rejected ; and as the plan has 
been adopted of consulting, in reference to natural objects, nature herself rather 
than the ancients, nature more readily lends herself to discovery, and often, 
when solicited by new expedients of interrogation, accords to us the knowledge 
of some one of her secrets." Thus we see the empire of terms is past ; thingx 
are preferred ; aut/ioritt/ is less consulted than reason; nature more than the 
ancients ; in a word, we make experiments. 

The ancients did not make experiments, or, at least, they made too few. 
riiey made them in no sustained, consecutive, unintermittent manner. Had 
they done so, they would have soon felt the need of academics. As Fontenelle 
justly says, "the revival of true philosophy rendered academies so necessary 
,that they were at once established. That mass of materials which the new 
aciences — science become experimental — demand, there are no means either of 
collecting or preparing, except through the instrumentality of associations, and 
associations protected by the government. Neither the information, nor the 
c^ire, nor the life, nor the faculties of an individual would suffice for it. There 
needs too great a number of experiments, too many of different kinds, too many 
repetitions of those of the same kind ; it is requisite to vary them in too many 
modes, and to pursue them for too great a length of time in the same spirit." 

Wherever we see the genius of experiment developed, we witness the rise of 
an academy. The Royal Society of London commences with the experiments 
of Boyle ; the Academy del Cimcnto is the work of the disciples of Galileo; the 
Academy of Sciences of Paris was at first Cartesian, and the systems of Des- 
cartes may have been advei-se to experiment, but his noble method, stronger 
than his systems, perpetually leads us back to it. Descartes asked of men but 
two things — leisure and the means of making experiments. " If there were in 
the world," he says, "some one whom we knew with certainty to be capablo 
of making the grandest and most useful discoveries, and his fellow-men should 
exert themselves by every means to aid him in attaining the objects of his 
research, I see not how they could do aught else for him but defray the ex- 
pense of th(! experiments which he would have occasion to make, and prevent 
his leisure from being interrupted by the intrusions of any one." — ( Discours de 
la nietkodc.J Elsewhere he observes, "the schools seem to me chiefly to have 



ACADEMY OP SCIENCES OF PARIS. 339 

erred in this ; that thoy have occupied themselves more in the speculative 
search for terms to be employed in treating of things than in the search for the 
truth of the things themselves, by means of good experiments ; hence, they are 
poor in the latter and rich in the former." 

" Up to this time," says the Cartesian Fontenelle, "the Academy of Sciences 
only considers nature in small poi'tions. No general system, for fear of falling 
into the inconvenience of precipitate systems, in which the impatience of the 
human mind is too prone to take refuge, and which, once established, 
oppose the reception of new truths. To-day we assure ourselves of a fact ; 
to-morrow of another which has no relation to it. True, wc do not shun the 
hazarding of conjectures respecting causes ; but these are only conjectures." 

Claude Perrault, a man of genius in more than one line, and perhaps a more 
practical savant than Fontenelle, in the preface to the excellent memoirs which, 
in company with Duverney, he has given us on the anatomy of animah, speaks 
the same language with Fontenelle respecting the rising spirit of the Academy, 
"What most entitles the memoirs of the Academy to consideration is the irre- 
proachable testimony of their assured and recognized verity. For they are not 
the work of an individual who may readily allow himself to be biased by hi.s 
opinion; Avho does not easily perceive anything but what confirms the first 
thoughts he has entertained, and for which he has all the blindness and the 
complacency with which one regards his own views. These inconveniences 
cannot be incident to the memoirs in question, for they contain no facts which 
have not been verified by a whole company, composed of persons who have 
eyes for seeing these kinds of objects otherwise than the greater part of man- 
kind see them, just as they have hands for handling them with more dexterity 
and success ; who see Avell what is, and could with difficulty be brought to see 
what is not; Avho study not so much to discover novelties as to examine 
thoroughly what is alleged to have been discovered, and to whom even the 
assurance of having been deceived carries scarcely less satisfaction than a 
curious and important discovery. So much, in their minds, does the love of 
certainty prevail over everything else." * 

The spirit, then, of the Academy of Sciences of Paris has been always the 
spirit of experiment, of direct study, of precise observation, the loce of certainty. 
At first Cartesian, it afterwards became Newtonian ; but whether with Descartes 
©r NcAvtou, or since Newton and Descartes, it has been always devoted to ex- 
periment. To write its history is to write the history of the experimental 
method. 

I return to the first establishment of the Academy. I say iXiaJirsf, for there 
have, in fact, been two — that of 1GG6, and that of 1G99. " The Royal Academy 
of Sciences," says Fontenelle, "had, by its labors and its discoveries, so well 
answered the intentions of the King, that, many years after its establishment, 
his Majesty was pleased to honor it with a new degree of attention, and to 
confer upon it a second organization, still more noble, and, so to speak, still 
more energetic than the first." 

It is a circumstance worthy of note, though it has been but little remarked, that 
the idea was at first entertained of creating in 1GG6, not a simple academy of 



* Jlistoire dc V Academic des Sciences, (Memoires pour servir a VHixtoirc iiaturelle des 
animaux, preface, p. VII.) Another testimony to the spirit of the Acadcmi/, comprising a 
judicious estimate of the spirit of Descartes, (that spirit whicli manifested its experimental 
tendency in spite of systems, ) is that of Mairan, in his Elogc of Pourfour du Petit. "It was 
to the Academy that ho recuried, not in quest of Cartesianisni, but of the spirit of Descartes, 
the love of experiments, and all the ardor which that philosopher evinced in availing himself 
of their help ; the spirit, in a word, of doubt and of discussion which characterizes his im- 
mortal method no less than it does the Academy ; or rather it was there that ho saw Descartes 
preferred by some, Newton by others, and still oftencr Descartes associated with Newton, 
with Leibnitz, with Aristotle himself, and with all the great minds whose meditations and 
labors have emiched the human intellect with new acquisitions." 



340 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

sciences, but a grand and comprelicnsive or universal academy. "M. Colbert," 
says Fontenelle, "at first conceived the project of an academy composed of all 
who were highly skUled in every department of letters. Historians, gramma- 
rians, mathematicians, philosophers, poets, orators, were equally to enter into 
this great body, in which all, even the most opposite talents, were to be united 
and reconciled. The Bibliothcque da Roi was destined to be their common 
place of meetmg. The professors of history were to assemble there on Mondays 
and Thuisdays; the votaries of the belles-lettres, Tuesdays and Fridays; the 
mathematicians and physicists, Wednesdays and Satin-days. Thus no day of 
the week was to remain unemployed; and that there might be something in 
common which should connect these difierent companies, there was to be the 
first Thursday of every month a general assembly of all, in which the secreta- 
ries were to report the judgments and decisions of their respective assemblies, 
and every one might ask a solution of his ditiiculties; for on what subject would 
not these estates general of literature have been ready to answer 1 If, however, 
the difficulties proved too considerable to be at once resolved, they were to be 
committed to writing and answered in the same manner, and all the decisions 
were to have been considered as issuing from the entire academy." 

This project was not carried into execution; the plan of distinct academies 
was adhered to ; doubtless because it was perceived that, even for academies, 
the first law of labor is division. G. Cuvier calls the modern era of the sciences. 
in oiher words their grand era, the era of the division of lahor. Our present 
Institute has resolved the problem which Colbert proposed to himself — all the 
academies united by a common bond of emulation and fame, and each, as regards 
its special labors, independent and free. 

To the idea of uniting everythiug, succeeded that of too thorough a sepa- 
ration. It was deliberated whether geometricians and physicists should form 
distinct sociteties, or be combined in one. Fortunately, they were combined in 
one. The spirit of geometry is the ever present, though often secret, guide 
of all our exact sciences. 

The rules of the Academy date from the remodelling in 1699. "Till then," 
says Fontenelle, " the love of the sciences constituted almost alone its whole 
laAV." In 1699 positive and written laws were prescribed, all dictated by a 
sound discretion. 

The whole number of academicians was seventy — ten lionoraries, twenty pe»- 
sionaries, twenty associates, and twenty eleves. The class of lionoraries was 
not distributed into sections. That of pensionaries was composed of three 
geometers, three astronomers, three mechanicians, three anatomists, three chem- 
ists, three botanists, a secretary and a treasurer. Of the twenty associates, 
twelve were French ; two geometers, two astronomers, two mechanicians, two 
anatomists, two chemists, and two botanists. The others were foreigners, and 
had no designated sections. It was in this list of the eight earliest foreign as- 
sociates of the Academy that might have been seen, nearly at the same time, 
the names of Leibnitz, Newton, the two Bernouillis, Iluysch, and the Czar 
Peter. Of the eleves, each cultivated the science of the pensionary Avho had 
chot^en him, for each of these last selected his own elcve ; but, in 1716, the 
title of elcve was suppressed ;* " a title," says Fontenelle, " which they have 
had the delicacy to abolish, though no one disdained it." In speaking of tho 
anatomist Tauvey, whom he himself had chosen as eleve, Fontenelle grace- 
fully says : " I believe that I could make no better present to the company 
tJiau of M. Tauvey; and though my nomination was not honorable enough for 

* In the place of the twenty r.leves. twelve adjoints were created, who had a deliberative 
voice in n;atters of science, as had also tho associates. This class of twelve adjoints was com- 
posed, like that of the associates, of two geometers and the same number of astronomers, 
mechanicians, anatomists, chemists, and botanists. 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 341 

him, yet his desire of entering the inustrions body was such as to prevent his 
being fastidious respecting the manner of his entrance." Ileguhxr ecclesias- 
tics, or those attached to any order of religion, could be neither pensionaries, 
associates, nor eleves ; but, fortunately, they might be honoraries, and so the 
Academy included Malebranche. 

Till the reorganization in 1699, the Academy had occupied for its meetings 
a small chamber in the Eibliotheque du lloi ; in the year just mentioned the 
King assigned it at the Jjonwc a sjiacious and magnijYCcnt* apa?'f?)ieni, and 
it was here that its sessions were held for a century. Of these there were two 
a week (Wednesday and Saturday,) and each continued at least two hours, 
from three to five o'clock. Further, everything had been provided for the 
dignified conduct of these sessions. "The Academy," says the rule, " shall 
observe great care that on occasion of a difference of opinion among any of the 
academicians, they shall employ no term of contempt or asperity towards one 
another, either in their discourse or their writings ; and even Avhen combating 
the sentiments of the leai-ned, whoever they may be, the Academy shall ex- 
hort its members to speak with forbearaiace." So far was attention to this 
point carried, that savants of different denominations were placed by the side 
of one another — a geometer beside an anatomist, a botanist beside an astrono- 
mer ; "for, as they did not speak the same language," says Fontenelle, " pri- 
vate conversations were less to be apprehended." 

It was particularly desired that the discussions of the Academy should not 
resemble the disputes of the schools. These words of Fontcnelle have much 
meaning : " Nothing can more contribute to the advancement of the sciences 
than emulation among savants, but an emulation confined within certain limits. 
It was, therefore, decided to give to the academic conferences a form quite dif- 
ferent from the public exercises of philosophy, in Avliich the great point is not 
to elucidate truth, but to avoid being reduced to silence. Here it was intended 
that all should be simple, quiet, without ostentation of ingenuity or knowledge, 
that no one should think himself obliged to be in the right, and that there 
should always be room for receding without discredit ; above all, that no sys- 
tem should bear sway in the Academy to the exclusion of others, and that 
every door should at all times be left open to truth." 

I shall add here but one particular, and that because it relates to Louis XIV. 
"The year 1681," says Fontcnelle, " was a proud one for the Academy, 
through the honor which it received of a visit in person from the King." On 
this occasion the King, accompanied by the Dauphin, by Monsieur, his only 
brother, by the Prince of Condti, and a part of the court, visited the library, 
the laboratory, where some experiments were made before him, the hall of the 
meetings, where Colbert presented him the printed works of the academicians, 
&c. On retiring, his Majesty was pleased to say, " that it was not necessary 
for him to exhort the Academy to labor, since of themselves they evinced quite 
a sufficient spirit of application." Louis XIV had a native instinct for glory; 
he relished it in all its forms; he protected the ai-ts; he loved letters, and gave 
an unwearied attention to the sciences ; the li"st in which he caused the cele- 
brated writers of his time to be inscribed, with a view to recompense them, 
received, likewise, the names of the illustrious savants, not only of France, 
but of Europe. 

II. 

HISTORY OF THE ACADEMY, 1!V FO.\TE\ELLE. 

When Fontenelle was nominated, in 1697, perpetual secretary of the Acad- 
emy of Sciences, he had been a member of the French A.cadej)nj for six years, 
and four years afterwards he became a member of the Academy of Inscriptions 

* Expressions of Fontenelle. Histoire dt V Academic des Sciences, 1689. 



342 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

and Belles-Lcttrcs. He had, moreover, published all his principal works, 
among which his TluraUty of Worlds (1686) had formed his true title to the 
place of secretary of the Academy of Sciences, as the History of Oracles ( 1687) 
opened to him the doors of the Academy of Inscriptions. His genius- was there- 
fore formed ; his ideas had taken shape ; he was master of his philosophy, his 
style, his distinctive manner ; and this was first clearly seen in the two prefaces 
prefixed, the one to his History, of 1666, the other to that of 1699 — works iu 
which the new spirit of the sciences shines with so much lustre, and the finest, 
no doubt, that lie has written. 

" Fontenelle," says Cuvier, "by the clear and lucid manner in which he 
exhibited the labors of the Academy, contributed to diffuse a taste for the 
sciences more, perhaps, than any one of his time who cultivated them." That is 
true ; but it is not enough. Fontenelle did not restrict himself to diffusing a 
taste for the sciences. No one more ably seconded Descartes, the destroyer 
of the scholastic philosophy ; no one, after the great men Avho founded it, Des- 
cartes, Bacon, Galileo, Leibnitz, Newton, better comprehended the modern 
philosophy. He was one of the first who discerned the metaphysics of the 
sciences, and the first who made them speak the common language. His influ- 
ence has been greater than is generally thought. The same thing has occurred 
in his case as iu Buffon's : the writer has thrown into the shade the savant and 
the philosopher. 

§ 1. Of the scholastic plcilosophy . 

The scholastic philosophy sprang from Avhat would cause it to revive to- 
morrow if there were no academies : from the persuasion that all was known, 
from adhesion to the words of the master, to the authority of the book ; from 
resting in terms without proceeding to things. Fontenelle well defined this as 
the 2)hilosophy of tvonls, and modern philosophy not less justly as the philos- 
ophy of things. 

lie says, in speaking of the treatise of Duhamel, entitled Philosophia Fetus 
et Nova, &CG. : " This Avork appeared in 1678, and is as judicious and happy an 
assemblage as could well be found of the old and new ideas, of the philosophy 
of words and of that of things, of the schools and of the academy." He every- 
where mocks at substantial for ms and occult qualities: " Avords, he says," "which 
have no other merit but that of having long passed for things." In all this, it 
is true, he follows Descartes. The latter had said of the ancient philosophy, 
" It contains only words, and I seek only for things." Of substantial forms 
and occult qualities he pronounced, " that they were nothing more than chime- 
ras, more di£licul^to be understood than all that was pretended to be explained 
by their means ; that they had been invented only to make it easy to give a 
reason for everything, if it may be said, indeed, that a reason is given for 
things when we explain what is obscure by something which is still more so." 
It is the daring genius of Descartes which animates the acute intellect of 
Fontenelle ; an intellect not only acute, but singularly judicious, and which, 
when it is necessary, knows how to check Descartes himself. " The errors of 
Descartes," he says, " are such that quite often they impart light to other 
philosophers, whether it be that when he is deceived he is not far estray from 
the truth and the mistake is easy to rectify, or that he sometimes gives original 
views and furnishes ingenious ideas, even when he is most astray." He fur- 
ther says, and still with characteristic fidicity, " It is by following the princi- 
ples of Descartes that we place ourselves in a position to abandon his opin- 
ions." And again : " It behooves us always to admire Descartes, and some- 
times to follow him." 

There was one point, however, and an important one, in whicli he coiild 
never abandon Descartes. I mean his prejudices against a vacuum and against 
attraction. "Attraction and a vacuum," he says in his Eloge of Newton, 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 343 

" banished from plivi^ics by Dc?cartep, and apparently banished forever, return 
under the leadership of Newton, armed with a new force of -which they were 
thought incapable, and only perhaps a little disguised." He confounds, in this 
E/oge, the attraction of Newton with the occult qualities of the scholastics — a 
demonstrated fact with imaginary forces — and, without doubt, he is deceived ; 
but we can afford to pardon the ingenious Avriter and profound thinker who 
had exerted so much talent in defending and extolling Descartes, if he re- 
mained Cartesian somewhat longer than others. We must render justice to 
Fontenelle for a half century of struggle against the ancients, and forgive him 
for having been himself something of an ancient. 

§ 2. Of the modern lilrilosophy. 

Fontenelle everywhere ojiposes the modern philosophy to the scholastic. 
He calls it, as we have seen, the philosophy of things ; he further calls it (and 
here we have the right word) the experimental philosophy.* 

The modern philosophy is, in fact, philosophy sprixng from the direct obser- 
vation of things — from the study of facts — from experiment. And herein this 
most decided partisan of Descartes becomes the most judicious admirer of the 
great Galileo. "A rare genii;s," he says of him, " and one whose name will 
always be seen at the head of some of the most important disco\''eries on Avhich 
modern philosophy is founded." Since Galileo, experiment is the guide, and. 
a.s Fontenelle has well said, the sovereign mistress of all our physical sciences. 
" We are at present thoroughly persuaded," he says, " that physics must not 
be treated except by experiments." — Hist, of the Academy of Sciences, 1724. 

He delights to point out at once the accurate attention and the auspicious 
sagacity which these experiments require. " The art of making experiments,'' 
he says, " carried to a certain stage, is by no means common. The least fact 
which offers itself to our eyes is complicated with so many other facts whicli 
compose or modify it, that it is impossible, wdthout extreme address, to sepa- 
rate all that enters into it, or even, without extreme sagacity, to suspect all 
that may enter into it. It is necessary to decompose the fact which is before 
us into others which have also their own composition ; and sometimes, if the 
route has not been well chosen, we become engaged in labyrinths from which 
there is no extrication. To us it appears that primitive and elementary facts 
have been hidden by nature Avith even as much care as causes ; and when we 
arrive at a sight of them, it is a spectacle altogether new and wholly unfore- 
seen." — Eloge if Kcu-ton. 

No one before Fontenelle had so distinctly defined the great art of experi- 
ment.! That whole art, in effect, has but one end, that of giving us simple 
facts — simple facts which, compared together according to their nature, give 
us laws ; and on this last point — which is the most elevated point of the ex- 
perimental method — we may again profitably listen to Fontenelle : " The 
time will perhaps come when we shall unite in a regular body these scattered 
members, (isolated facts ;) and if they are such as we could Avish, they will 
come together, in some sort, of themselves. Various separate truths, at least. 



* "Wliat the eipcrimental philosophy is in relation to the scholastic." * * » (Elogc 
of Diiliamcl.) One utility of this work, (the Opticks of Newton,) as important, perhaps, "ii.< 
that which we derive from the g^reat nnmber of new facts of which it is full, is, that it fur- 
nishes an excellent model of the art with whk-h the eipcrimental philosophy is to be con- 
ducted. 

tHe made an approach to this lucid definition when he said : "The laws of the impact of 
bodies are very simple, but in almo-^t all the efiects which they produce to our eyes they are 
60 enveloped and so smothered under the multitude of difl'ercut circumstances that it is'difii- 
cult to disentangle them, and to see them in their natural simplicity. The secret is, to sep- 
arate first the greatest number of circumstances possible, and to consider only the cases into 
whicJi there enter the fewest of those circumstances.'" — Hist, of the Academy of Sciences, I70ti. 



344 ACADEMY OP SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

if in sufficiently large number, strike the mind in so vivid a manner with their 
relations and mutual dependence, that it would , seem, that after having been 
detached by a species of violence from one another, they naturally seek to re- 
unite themselves again." — Preface of 1699. 

§ 3. Of the metaphysics of the sciences. 

Each science has its metaphysics, or, as we more commonly say nowadays, 
its philosophy. 

Descartes praises, in his cotemporary Dcsargues, certain new views on the 
metaphysics of geometry. " The mode," he says, "in which he commences his 
reasoning is so much the more commendable as it is more general, and seems to 
be derived from what I am in t,he habit of calling the metaphysics of geometry." 
''The geometrical spirit," says Fonteuelle, "is not so identified with geometry 
that it cannot be transferred to other subjects of knowledge."* And it was 
in this connexion that he gave us his striking allusion to Descartes : " Sometimes 
a great man gives the tone to his whole age, and he to whom we might most 
justly ascribe the glory of having established a new art of reasoning was an 
excellent geometer." 

What he admires in the sciences, and would especially challenge admiration 
for, is not so much discovery as the art of discovering: "Perhaps," he says, 
"the excellence of the geometric methods which from day to day are invented 
or improved, will bring us at last to see the import of geometry — that is to say, 
of the art of making discoveries in geometry, which is everything;" it is les^ 
the material truth than the abstract truth. "Although lines and numbers," he 
says, " should conduct absolutely to nothing, they would still teach us how to 
operate upon truths;" it is less the fact than the idea. lie seeks everywhere 
"that genius of metaphysics which," as he says, "hides itself, and can only be 
perceived by eyes sufficiently penetrating." t 

Above physical science he sees an intellectual science : in physical science 
the cases arc particular, the experiments bounded; it is intellectual scienco 
which gives them a general force, and, to borrow one of his striking expressions, 
a universal spirit.^ 

§ 4. Cf common language applied to the sciences. 

"When the Academy of Sciences," says Fontenelle, addressing the Academic 
francaise, "assumed a new form at the hands of one of your most illustrious 
colleagues, § he conceived the design of diffusing, as far as was in his power, the 
taste of the abstract and elevated sciences which formed his sole occupation. 
These employed, for the most part, as in ancient Egypt, only a species of sacred 
language understood by none but priests and a few of the initiated. Their new 
lawgiver desired that they should speak, as far as possible, the common language, 

* Elsewhere lie says, "f^eometiy, and what is still better worth, the geometric spirit." — 
Eloge of Giiglulmini. "The art of discovery in mathematics is more valuable than the 
greater part ot what is discovered." — Elogc of Liehnitz. 

i Discours a V Academic frmicaise, 1741. He says of Leibnitz: "He was a metaphysician 
and it was next to impossible that he should not be so; ho had too universal a spirit. I mean 
universal not only because he essayed everything-, but still more because in everything he 
seized upon the highest and most general principles, which is the character of metaphysics."— 
Eloge de Leibnitz. 

I He employs this expression in speaking of the necessary union of geometry and physics: 
"It is requisite that the subtle speculations of the one should become embodied, so to say, 
by connecting themselves with the experiments of the others; and that experiments naturally 
liiinited to paiticular cases should assume, by means of speculation, a universal spirit, and bo 
changed into principles." — I'reface o/16()6. 

^ The Abbe Bignon, member of the Academic francaise and honorary of the Academy of 
Sciences. 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 345 

and lie did me tlie honor of adopting me as their interpreter in this pLice." But 
thia merit — and it is a great one — of having taught science to speak tlie common 
language, is the most genei-ally known of Fontenelle's merits, and I restrict 
myself here to a mere mention of it. 

Fontenelle, as has been seen, was nominated secretary of the Academy of 
Sciences in 1G97 ; in 1G99 the Academy was remodelled, receiving, among other 
ordinances, the following: "The secretary shall be exact in collecting in sub- 
stance all that shall have been proposed, agitated, examined and resolved in 
this company, entering it on his register with a refei-ence to each day of assem- 
bling, and he shall also insert therein the treatises which shall have been read; 
and at close of December of each year he shall give to the public an 
abstract of his registers, or an analytical history of the most remarkable acts 
and proceedings of the Academy." 

Fontenelle addressed himself at once to the work, and in 1702 a])peared the 
first volume of his great history. He excuses himself in the first lines for ita 
retarded appearance : "According to the ordinance imposed by the Kin"- on the 
Academy at the beginning of the year 1G99, this history ought to have appeared 
at the end of that year. But as the entire Academy was remodelled by thcat 
ordinance, it required some time to communicate to the whole a first movement, 
which it will henceforward be easy to maintain." — 'Preface o/'1699. 

This, in effect, Avas the case. From 1702 each year yielded its volume, 
containing, in part, the Memoirs of academicians, and, in part, the History of 

Uie Academy, by Fontenelle. The latter is composed of two portions the 

general history of the Academy, of its labors, of its ideas, of the sciences with 
which it was occupied ; and the history, the Eloge of individual academicians. 

We will first consider the general history. In this Fontenelle combined an 
ahridgment of everything remarkable which had been said or done in the 
Academy during the year, with an analysis of the printed memoirs, the whole 
discussed and illustrated, and composed, moreover, in a style of such admirable 
cleai'ness as to recall at once the line of Voltaire : 

"The ignorant understood, the learned admired liim." 

"The design," says Fontenelle, "has been that the history should, on all 
subjects, whether common to it and the memoirs, or peculiar to the former, be 
adapted to the capacity of those who have but a moderate tincture of mathe- 
matics and physics." He goes on to say, " it has been considered that, with 
a view as well to profound savants as to those who are not such, it would be 
best to present, under two different forms, the materials which compose this 
collection ; that the labors of the Academy Avould thence become better known, 
and the taste of the sciences be more widely diffused." He adds, in fine. " Care 
has been taken to intersperse in the history illustrations suited to facilitate the 
reading of the memoirs, and some of these Avill undoubtedly be more intcllio-ible 
to the greater part of readers, if associated with that portion of the history Avhifeh 
corresponds to them." Still another phrase is worthy of remark, as showino- us 
that Fontenelle well understood the kind of service which he rendered to his 
colleagues. He observes, in his Eloge of the geometer Parent, who was reproached 
for the obscurity of his writings : " I cannot help recording it to his honor, that, 
in a letter written to his warmest friend two days before his deatli, he thanks 
me for having, as he said, made him intelligible. This Avas frankly conceding 
the fault which Avas imputed to him, and carrying very far his gratitude for a 
slight service Avhich I OAVcd him." 

In reference to the savants whose history he has Avritten, Fontenelle lias tAvo 
merits : that of having cleared up Avhat is obscure, of having generalized Avhat 
is technical in the Avritings of each ; and that of having always employed av hat each 
has bequeathed us that is most important and most durable as the vehicle of 
his eulogy. He praises by means of facts Avhich define the character. The 



346 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

following portraiture of the savants who illustrated by their genius the first 
half of the seventeenth century is an instance: "In Italy, Galileo, mathema- 
tician to the grand duke, at the commencement of that century first observed 
the spots on the sun. He discovered the satellites of Jupiter, the phases of 
Venus, the small stars which compose the milky way, and, what is still more 
considerable, the instrument of which he availed himself to discover them. 
Torricelli, his disciple and successor, devised the famous experiment of the 
vacuum, which has led the way to an infinitude of entirely new phenomena. 
Cavallerius detected the ingenious and subtle geometry of indivisibles which is 
now extended so far, and which, at every moment, embraces the infinite. In 
France, Descartes opened to geometers new paths which had not been before 
known, and disclosed to physicists a multitude of views which either suffice of 
themselves or prepare the way for others. In England, Baron Napier distin- 
guished himself by the invention of logarithms ; and Harvey by the discovery, 
or, at least, the incontestable proof of the circulation of the blood. The honor 
which accrued to the whole English nation from this new system of Harvey 
seems to have turned the attention of the English to anatomy. Several of 
them ado^ited particular parts of the body as the subject of their researches — 
Wharton, the glands ; Glisson, the liver ; Willis, the bi'ain and the nerves ; 
Lower, the heart and its movements. About the same time, the reservoir of 
the chyle and the thoracic duct were discovered by Pecquet, a Frenchman, 
and the lymphatic vessels by Thomas Bartholin, a Dane, to say nothing of the 
salivary ducts which Stenon, another Dane, taught us to knoAV still more 
exactly than Wharton had done, nor of all Avhich Marcel ]\Ialpiglii, an Italian 
and first physician to Pope Innocent XII, observed in the epiploon, in tho 
heart and in the brain, anatomical discoveries which, however important, will 
yet yield him less honor than his happy conception of extending anatomy even 
to ])lants. In fine, all the sciences and all the arts whose progress had been 
arrested for centuries, acquired, in this, new forces, and commenced, so to speak, 
a new career." — Preface (jflGGb . 

Fontenelle portrays himself in his Elogc of Duhamel, that first secretary of 
the Academy of Sciences whom he has caused us to forget : " There was required 
for this association a secretary who xxnderstood and could competently speak 
all the different languages of these savants ; who might be their common inter- 
preter with the public ; who could not only throw light on so many intricate 
and abstract topics, but give them a certain turn and even grace which authors 
sometimes neglect, and which yet the greater part of readers desire; one, in 
fine, who, by his character, should be exempt from partiality, and qualified to 
render a disinterested account of the academic contests. The choice of M. 
Colbert for this functionary fell upon M. Duhamel." It is in this same Eloge 
that we meet with this ingenious remark : " That which ought not to be embel- 
lished beyond a certain determinate point is precisely what it costs most pains 
to embellish;" and nothing could better characterize the writer's own felicitous 
manner and discriminating art. 

I have already cited more than once the two prefaces which precede the 
histories of the years 1G66 and 1699. The latter, on its first appearance, 
excited attention, not only in France, but in Europe. Not since the disconrsi 
of Descartes on method had there been heard such language applied to such 
objects. The admiration was universal. The preface of 1666 had a different 
fate. In the first place, it did not appear until several years later ; and then, when 
it did appear, it attracted scarcely any notice. Trublet tells us that in his time it 
was almost unknown. "Many persons," he says, "have the history of the 
Academy of Sciences since 1699, and buy the new volumes as they issue from 
the press. Very few have had the curiosity to go back to 1666, or even know 
that M, de Fontenelle had labored on the first memoirs and composed the his- 
tory of the first years of the Academy." Garat, in his Eloge of Fontenelle, 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 347 

crowned by tlic Academic francai.se, says of the preface of IGOl) : " Tliis ])r(;face, 
wLicli comprises but a few pages, has yet made good its chiim to be ranked 
among the distinguished works of the century. It is the most vigorous and 
compreliensive survey of human knowledge from Bacon to the preface of the 
Encyclopedia." This is well and justly said; but of the preface of IGGG there 
is not a word. "Wherefore this silence? Had Garat not seen it? This 1 can- 
not believe ; and yet the preface in question is quite as line as that of 1699. 
Perhaps it is even more so, for there prevails in it a graver strain of elofjuence, 
and, for that reason, a more excellent one. 

Fontenelle, not having been nominated as secretary until 1G97, might very 
well have acquiesced in the terms of the ordinance, which only exacted of him 
the history of the Academy after the year 1G99 ; but the monument which ho 
raised to the sciences would have thus been incomplete, and he undertook the 
entire history from 1GG6 to 1G99. Duhamel had already Avritten in Latin the 
history of these thirty-two first years, (Regies Scientiarum Acadcrniff; ITistoria, 
1698.) Fontenelle, through a considerate delicacy, did not publish the French 
history of these years until after the death of Duhamel, and long after. The 
latter died in 170G ; the history appeared in 1733. 

Duhamel had relinquished the functions of secretary in 1G97. The lustre of 
the sciences, every day augmenting, demanded for them a more brilliant inter- 
preter, and Fontenelle succeeded him, Duhamel, a most learned, laborious, and 
unpretending man, recalls, by his tone and by his Latin, the ancient period of 
the sciences. Fontenelle, by his original genius, his vivacity of thought, his 
language, and above all by his French style, represents their new period. To 
see the two eras, so diflferent, yet so little distant, we need but compare the 
Latin history and French history of the Academy of Sciences, Duhamel and 
Fontenelle. 

We must still recur to Fontenelle to learn how to speak of others and of 
himself. "At the commencement of 1697," he says, "M. Duhamel resigned 
the pen, having represented to M. de Pontchartrain, chancellor of France, that 
h(^ had become so infirm as to stand in need of a successor. It would be lo my 
own interest to conceal here the name of him who had the temerity to take the 
j)lace of such a man ; but the gratitude which I owe him for the goodness with 
which he accepted me, and for the care which he took to form me, does not 
))crmit me to do so." — Elogc de Duhamel. 

In 1737 Fontenelle, at the age of eighty years, and having been secretary for 
i'orty, felt, in his turn, the necessity of retiring. He Avrote, therefore, to Car- 
dinal de Fleury, asking anew the superannuation (vetcrance) which he had 
already applied for seven years before. "It is just seven years," he said, 
" since 1 obtained from your eminence permission to abdicate the only dignity 
which I hold in this world, that of secretary of the Academy of Sciences. I 
then yielded to the instances of several of the members and remained, though 
compliment, no doubt, had its part in their remonstrances. Seven more years 
greatly strengthen the reasons Avhich I then had. It is very far from being 
the case that every one is exempt from the danger of self-d(?lusion. Whatever 
diftereuce there may be between France and the Academy, I njneAv my earnest 
prayer, and am, with very profound respect, &c." The cardinal, who had his 
own reasons for not admitting that one is old at eighty years, (he was himself 
seventy-seven,) returned but an evasive reply, Fontenelle was therefore 
obliged to write to him a third time, three years after, in 1710 ; and this time 
the cardinal yielded, not, however, Avithout reservations. "You are," he re- 
])lied to him, "only an idle fellow and a libertine; but still it is necessary to 
have some indulgence for characters of that sort." 

Fontenelle Avas nominated at the beginning of 1697 ; and, as he retired at 
the close of 1740, was, consequently, secretary for nearly forty-four years. 



348 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

III. 

ULOGES OF THE ACAl)Ei\IR'lA\S 15Y FONTENELLE. 

Tlio E/ogcs of Foutcucllc commoncc in IGOO,* witli tlio rcorg'.inization of 
the Ao;uUniiy, and ho h;ul ahvady prodnood twolvo in the year 1708. At that 
timo a. small volumo nppcarod, ontitlod, "History of the Koorpmization of tlw> 
Acadoniy of Sciences in 1099, and Historical Eulop;ies of the Academician? 
who have died since that time, with a preliminary disconrse on the ntility of 
Mathematics and of riiysics." 

In this work, forming the iirst collection of Fontenelle's E/oi^cn, are emhraced 
twelve memoirs, being those of Ikmrdelin, Tanvey, Tnilher. Viviani, the 
^larqnia de L'llopital. Jacques Bernonilli. Amoutons, Dnhamel, Regis, Marshal 
Vauban, the Abbd Clallois, and Dodart. TIio preliminary discourse is the 
admirable preface of 1G99, of which 1 have repeatedly spoken. The history 
is a curious though brief recital of the facts attending the recent inangnralion 
of the Academy. An advertisement, which precedes the whole, announces that 
"the co.tection would be followed b}' no other until there was a sulhcient nnm- 
b(n- oi' E/oi;-rs to form a second vohum^ equal to the first." This condition was 
fnllilled in 1717, Avheu another yolnnie appeared, followed by a third in 172L\ 
and subsequently by another series of the Eloixes:. Of these memoirs. Fontenelle 
producetl sixty-nine, antl pronounced them all before the Academy within the 
space of forty-two years: 1G99 — 1710. 

The second volnme is introduced by this simple and interesting preface: 
"There appeared, some years ago, a volume composed of the History of the 
Ueorganization of the Academy of Sciences and Elogcs of Academicians since 
dead. The present volume contains only the snbse(|nent Elogcs. They have 
all been composed to be read in the meetings of the Academy, and some expres- 
sions will be found in them which have a relation to that circumstance. The 
title of Elogcs can hardly be considered just; that of Lives would have boon 
more so ; for properly they are but lives, such as would have been written with 
the design simply to render justice. I guarantee their truth to the ])ublic. A 
very large number of the facts which I relate have fallen under my own obser- 
vation; others I have derived from the •writings of those of whom I speak; 
others from the writings even of those who have assailed them, or from memoirs 
furnished by persons whose information Avas most exact. I have not felt at 
liberty, still h>ss have I pur]iosed, to draw portraits at pleasure of those whose 
memory is so fresh. If, in the mean time, it shonld be thought that tlu-y have 
not been sutliciently praised, I shall neither be surprised nor annoyed.'' 

I confess myself well pleased to sec that Fontenelle was not satislied with 
the title of Elogcs. The word li/c is the true and natural word; that of Eloge 
is but the conventional expression of a given literary epoch. Elsewhere he 
remarks: " These jtVo^r* are simply historical — that is to say, true." And true 
they are to their full extent; hence it is that each is stamped with its own 
character, its own tone, with an originality springing from that of the person- 
age who is the subject, and hence the Eloge of Mery, or of Couplet, is so diifer- 
ent from that of Newton or of jMalebranche. 

The Elogcs of Eontenelle for the Iirst time, in France, brought savants into 
public notice, and the sciences into fashion. If he ably secon(U>d Descartes, the 
founder of a new philosophy, he not less ably seconded Colbert, as mnch an 
innovator in politics as l)escai"tes iu philosophy. But who remembers now 

* "As tlio history ot" tlio Aoadoiiiy slumld bo, as niuoh as possililo, that of tho uoadoiiii- 
chins, wo shall not fail, when oiio of tlioui dios, (o rondor him a sjiooios of fuiioial lumovs in 
ft scimrato artiolo, iu whioh wo shall ooUoct tho most oousidorahlo iiartiotilars oi' his lifo. M. 
liOUuloHii, liaviiiji' diod iu tho yoar whoso history wo now writo, will bo tho tivst towards 
whom tho Aoudouiy will acquit itsolf of this duty." — Histoirc, S^c, 16W. 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 349 

what Colbert performed for yavaiits aud for science'? What Ilichelieu liad been 
for the Academic francaisc, that was Colbert for the Academy of Sciences. 
We have noticed his grand idea of a general and nnivers^al academy, an insti- 
tute such as we now possess. I find in every page of the Elogcs of Fontenelle, 
traces of that assiduous, active, comprehensive solicitude Avhich Colbert mani- 
fested for the sciences; a solicitude which, in a statesman, was then so great a 
novelty. 

" M. Colbert," says Fontenelle, "favored letters, induced thereto, not only by 
his natural inclination, but a wise policy. He kneAv that the sci<mces and arts 
oven alone suffice to render a reign glorious ; that they extend the language of 
a nation more, perhaps, than conquests; that they confer the empire of intellect 
and of industry equally flattering and useful; that they attract a multitude of 
strangers, who enrich the country by their curiosity, adopt its habits, and attach 
themselves to its interests. For many centuries, the University of l*aris has 
not contributed in a less degree to the grandeur of the capital than the residence 
of its kings. To M. Colbert we owe the lustre to which letters have attained, 
the rise of this Academy, of that of inscriptions, of the Academies of painting, 
sculpture and architecture, the new favors obtained from the king by the French 
Academy, the impression of a great number of excellent books at the expense 
of the royal press, a vast augmentation of the Bihliothcqzie du Roi, or rather 
of the public treasury of the learned, an infinitude of such works as great 
authors and skilful artisans only accord to the caresses of ministers and princes, 
a taste for the beautiful and refined evei-ywhere difiused and continually gath- 
ei-iug strength." — Eloge of the Ahhe Gallois. 

Here we have Colbert painted, after the manner of Fontenelle, by facts. The 
following are some of these facts, chosen among many others, for Fontenelle 
forgets none of them. His particular eulogies of different savants seem the 
general and continued eulogy of this great minister. 

" If any new book of reputation or discovery of moment came to light, Col- 
bert was soon apprized of it, and the recompense was not long deferred. The 
liberalrLies of the king were extended even to foreign merit, and sometimes 
sought out in the very depths of the north a savant surprised to find that he 
was known." 

Homberg visited Paris when he was young, and, as sometimes happens with 
young men who visit Paris, for some time evaded the injunctions of his father 
to return. "At last," says Fontenelle, "the father grew impatient and his 
commands more pressing. Homberg prepared to obey, and was about entering 
the carriage, when M. Colbert sent to require his presence on the part of the 
king. This minister, believing that persons of eminent merit are a benefit to 
the state;, made such advantageous offers to induce him to stay, that Homberg 
asked for some little time to form a decision, and finally determined to remain." 

About 1682, a young geometer, then quite unknown, had resolved in a feli- 
citous manner a problem which had been recently propounded. " Forthwith," 
says Fontenelle, " M. Colbert, who had spies to discover hidden or rising merit, 
disinterred M. Rolle in the (extreme obscurity in which he lived, and bestowed 
on him a gratuity which became afterwards a settled pension." 

Charles II, king of England, had sent to Louis XIV two repeating watches, 
the first which had been seen in France. These watches, which could only be 
opened by a secret artifice, got out of order, and it was necessary to repair 
them. But, how to open them ? After some vain eftorts, the horolugist of the 
kuig (" with a courage," says Fontenelle, "not unworthy of remembrance") 
told M. Colbert that he knew a young Carmelite who was capable of effecting 
it. The watches were, therefore, given to this young Carmelite, who promptly 
opened them, and, moreover, repaired them, without knowing that they were 
the king's. "Some time after," says Fontenelle, "an order arrives from the 
uiinister, directing M. S>.'bastieu to come to him at seven o'clock in the mom- 



350 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

ing of a certain day ; no explanation of the reason of this order ; a silence 
which might well cause some alarm. Father Sebastien fails not to an-ive at 
the hour ; presents himself, confused and apprehensive ; the minister praises 
him on account of the watches, tells him for whom he had worked, exhoi't? 
him to cultivate his great talent for mechanics, and in order still more to 
encourage him, and speaking still more to the point in his capacity of minister, 
confers on him a pension of six hundred livres ; the first year being paid, 
according to the custom of those times, in advance." " Father Scbastien," 
adds Fontenclle, " was then but nineteen years of age ; and with what a desire 
of meriting approA-al must he have been inspired ! Princes and ministers who 
do not obtain suitable agents for every purpose, cither do not know that there 
is need of men, or have not the art of finding them.'' 

I have said that Fontenelle forgets nothing which was done by Colbert. 
" It was in 1GG.5," he tells us, " that for the first time appeared the Journal des 
Savans, the idea of Avhich was so novel and happy, and which still subsists 
with greater vigor than ever, accompanied by a numerous progeny, dissemi- 
nated throughout Europe, under the different names of Nouvelles de la repub- 
lique dcs Icttres ; ITistoirc dcs ouvrages des savants; Bibliotlieque universclle ; 
Bibiiotkeque choisie ; Acta eruditorum ; Transactions j^^idosophiqties ; Me7noires 
pour Vhisloire dcs sciences et des beaux-arts, &c. M. de Sallo, ecclesiastic 
councillor to the Parliament, had conceived the design of it, and had associated 
with himself the Abbe Gallois, Avho, from the vast variety of his erudition, 
seemed born for this laboi% and, what is more, and by no means common with 
those who know everything, who knew French, and wrote it well." 

I find, from Fontenclle, that the Journal took at first a tone somewhat too 
bold ; that it censured too freely most of the works which appeared ; that the 
republic of letters, thinking its liberty menaced, revolted, and the publication 
was suspended at the end of three months. It reappeared in 1666, under the 
sole direction of the Abbe Gallois, "and immediately," says Fontenclle, "M. 
Colbert, struck with the beauty and utility of the Jotirnal, took a taste for the 
work." From that moment the fortunes of the Journal were secured ; a happy 
event, not only for letters and science in general, but for the Academy in 
particular." "The Abbe Gallois," says Fontenelle, " enriched his Journal 
with the principal discoveries of the Academy, which were then made known 
to the public only through this medium." 

" In 1683, M. Colbert was lost to letters." Fontenelle says but these few- 
words ; but what do not these few words convey after all that precedes ! 

By the side of Colbert, who renovated by means of the sciences the face of 
the most civilized empire of the world, I place the memorial of the Czar Peter, 
who carried them into countries the most barbarous. 

The czar came to Paris in 1717; he came with the curiosity of genius; he 
visited everything and penetrated everywhere, and especially did he observe 
the Academy of (Sciences. " No sooner," says Fontenelle, " had he returnc<:l 
into his own dominions, than he wrote to the Abbe Bignon, through M, 
Erskine, a Scotchman, who was his first physician, that he desired to become 
a member of this company ; and when acknowledgments Avere made him with 
all the respect and gratitude that were his due, he wrote with his own hand a 
letter to the Academy, which we will not venture to call a letter of thanks, 
though coming from a sovereign who had long been accustomed to regard 
himself as a man." " It was thenceforth obligatory," continues Fontenelle, 
" to send him, each year, the volume due to him in his quality of academician, 
which was always graciously acknowledged as an attention on the part of his 
colleagues." — Eloge of the Czar Pierre J. 

In the letter, which Fontenelle does not venture to call one of thanks, thet 
Czar said to the Academy : " The choice which you have made of us personally 
to be a member of your illustrious society could not but be highly agreeable 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 351 

to us. Hence we have not been disposed to defer our acknowledgment of the 
loy and gratitude with which we accept the place yoii ofiV-r us therein, having 
nothing at heart more than to make eveiy effort in our power to promote, in 
our estates, the advancement of the sciences and fine arts, so as thereby to 
render ourselves more Avorthy of being a member of your society." And 
he adds : " As there had never yet been any very exact chart of the Caspian 
sea, we despatched competent persons thither to construct one, Avith all possible 
care, upon the spot, and we send it to the Academy in the confidence that it 
will be kindly received as a memorial of ourself." 

There is an art common to all the EJoges of Fontenelle, and a special art in 
tlie portrait which he traces of each academician. Thus he graphically pre- 
sents to us the physician and botanist, Morin : " Retiring to rest at seven 
o'clock and rising at six, throughout the year, he then gave three hours to his 
devotions. He now repaired to the post of his duties, the Hotel Dieu, going 
thither at five or six o'clock in summer, and between six and seven in winter. 
Mass he generally heard at Notre Dame. After his return home he read the 
Holy Scriptures, dined at eleven, and, when the weather was fair, spent till 
two in the royal garden, where he gratified his earliest and strongest passion 
by the examination of new plants. After this, if there were no poor Avhom be 
was called upon to visit, he shut himself up and spent the rest of the day in 
reading books of physic or erudition, chicfiy the former, as his profession 
required. [This likewise was the time at which he received visits, if any were 
paid him. He often used this expression : ' Those that come to see me do 
me honor ; those that stay away do me a favor.' It is easy to conceive that a 
man of his temper was not crowded Avith salutations ; there was only now and 
theji an Antony that would pay Paul a visit."] * 

He thus paints to us the great astronomer Cassiui, '• Whose spirit Avas even, 
taanquil, exempt from those vain disquietudes and senseless agitations which 
aa-e the most afflicting and the most incurable of all maladies. A vast fund of 
religion, and, Avhat is still more, the practice of religion greatly promoted this 
perpetual calm. The heavens, which declare the glory of their Creator, had 
never more discoursed of it, nor ever carried more conviction to any one than 
to him." 

He paints to us La Hire : " All his days, from beginning to end, Avere occu- 
pied by study, and his nights often interrupted by astronomical observations. 
No diversion for him but that of a change of labor ; no other bodily exercise 
but going from the observatory to the Academy of Sciences, to that of archi- 
tecture, to the royal college, of Avhich also he Avas a professor. Few 
persons can comprehend the happiness of a recluse, Avho is such by a choice 
which is every day rencAved." 

After indulging himself in the praise of his saA-ants, Fontenelle seems to 
feel new pleasure in transferring his praises to the sciences themselves. He 
says, in the memoir of Lemery : " We are almost Aveary of noticing this merit 
in those of Avhom Ave have to speak. It is a praise which A-ery generally 
appertains to that particular and not numerous class of persons Avhom couA-ersG 
with the sciences separates from that with men." In reference to Varignon 
he says : " His character Avas as simple as his superiority of intellect would 
imply it to be. I have already given this same praise to so many members of 
this Academy, that it might be thought the merit of it belongs rather to our 
sciences than to our savants." 

Portraying others, he portrays himself. He well says of the Theodicoia of 
Leibnitz : "This Avork of itself would sufficiently represent its author;" and as 

* The words between brackets are an addition to the rather meagre extract of the text, and 
are taken from a translation of Fontenelle's Elogo of Morin, by Dr. Johnson, first printed 
ia the Gentleman's Magazine for 1741. — Tr. 



852 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PAEIS. 

much might be said of his own Elogcs iu regard to himself. We there see the 
character of his intellect : " Luminous, comprehensive, and capable of adding 
something of its own to all acquired knowledge." — Eloge of Saurin. We see 
also his disposition and turn of thought. He says of Reyneau : " He held 
himself aloof from business, still more from intrigue, and prized highly the 
advantages, so little appreciated, of being nothing;" of Tschirnaus : "True 
philosophy had penetrated to his very heart, and established there that 
exquisite tranquillity which is the greatest and the least coveted of all posses- 
sions ;" of Varignon : " 1 have never seen any one who had more conscientious- 
ness — I mean to say, who applied himself more scrupulously to satisfy the 
inward sentiment of duty, and contented himself less with having satisfied 
appearances;" and in the Eloge of Homberg : "Whoever has leisure for 
thought sees nothing better that he can do than to be virtuous." 

The mind of Fontenelle had all the boldness which a superior judgment 
peimits, or rather supposes. Otherwise, Avould he have chosen Descartes for 
a master? "' In all inquiries," says he, " the first systems are too limited, too 
naiTOw, too timid, and it would seem that truth itself can only be the reward 
of a certain audacity of reason." But he stipulates that this audacity should 
be sagacious and discreet. " It is necessary," he says, " to dare in all things, 
but the difficulty is to dare discreetly; it is to reconcile a contradiction." — 
Eloge of Chazclles. 

No one had more clearly or closely observed the powers of the human intel- 
lect than the contiuuer of Descartes and the historian of Leibnitz and of New- 
ton; but he had observed those powers without being dazzled, and was aware 
of their limits. "A. first veil," he says, " which covered the Isis of the 
Egyptians, has been for some time removed ; a second, if you please, has been 
so in our own day; a third will not be removed, if that third be the last." — 
Eloge of Ruyscli. 

Colbert, having founded the Academy of Sciences in 1666, continued to be 
its immediate protector while he lived. On his death, which occurred in 1683, 
the Academy was transferred to Louvois, appointed superintendent of construe- 
tions, arts and manufactures in the place of Colbert ; and on the death of Lou- 
vois in 1691, it passed to Pontchartrain, at first Secretary of State, and after- 
wards Chancellor of France. Pontchartrain gave the Academy in charge to 
the Abbo Bignon, his nephew, and "by doing so," says Fontenelle, "rendered 
to the sciences one of the greatest favors they have ever received from a minis- 
ter." The abbe, who had long presided over the body, and thoroughly under- 
stood its constitution, contributed much, in fact, by his views and his influenc.e, 
to the great reorganization of 1699. When the Duke of Orleans became Re- 
gent, he reserved to himself the government of the Academy. " He treated 
our sciences," says Fontenelle, " as a private domain, of which he was jealous." 
This prince, it is well known, possessed much taste and even talent for the 
sciences ; he had become a chemist with Homberg, and evinced that specula- 
tive curiosity which belongs to genius, but unfortunately as ill regulated as all 
his other qualities.* 

The Regent having assumed the direction of the Academy, the personage who 
represented it, whether secretary or president, Fontenelle or the Abbo Bignon, 
was naturally called upon to assist him in his labors. Fontenelle, with hia 
usual delicacy, wished to defer this honor to the Abb<i Bignon. " Nothing 
could be more courteous," replied the latter, " than your proposal that I should 
have the honor of rendering to his Highness, the Regent, an account of the 
afiairs of the Academy of Sciences ; but the matter would be infinitely better 

*"IIe was curious in all sorts of arts and sciences. He has often told me that he had 
sought, by all the means at his command, to obtain a sight of the devil and other extiaor 
din%y objects, and to know the future." — Memoircs dc Saint Simon, V, p. 121. 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 353 

in your hands. The most important j)oint i^, that the Regent has declared 
that he reserved our sciences to himself aloue. You and 1 will not quarrel 
about the reports he may require. But, however honorable this distinction 
may be to our Academy, or flattering to ourselves, I still have a fear that it 
may expose our poor savants to envy and the ill oiEces which might follow. 
i fear, moreover, that in the multiplicity of more important affairs with which 
liis royal Highness is overwhelmed, it will not be possible for him to enter into 
all our details, whose numbers frighten even yoin-self, and which will hereafter 
imdoubtedl}^ increase. Tlie example of our dear Acadc7nic J'rancaise alarms 
lue. From the day that the King condescended to take the title of its Pro- 
tector, and it had the honor, consequently, of being immediately responsible to 
none but his Majesty, you know to what extent the spirit of state affairs in- 
vaded it, and how many evils, or at least inutilities, followed in their train. 
The Academy would soon be reduced to nothing, if it fell into a condition 
anything like this. Think of these things, I pray you." 

These particulars are curious ; happily, however, the Abbe was needlessly 
alarmed. The constitution of the Academy was an excellent one, and there 
are two things therein Avhich strike me as possessing singular wisdom : one, 
that it had entire liberty in the domain of the sciences ; the other, that it was 
absolutely limited to that domain : no function, either of administration, or 
even of instruction. 

The Academy is no university. The barrier Avhicli separates them should 
be eternal. Universities teach, the Academy discovers and improves ; this th(- 
very terms of its device inculcate : Invenlt ct j)cyjidt. Nor has it any more 
an administrative function. The Academy seeks, as it ought to seek, in every- 
thing, ideal excellence ; administration aims only at practicable excellence. 
8olon gave to the Athenians, not the best possible laws, but such only as they 
could bear. 

The numerous editions of the Elogcs which have appeared since the death of 
their author are more or less infected with verbal errors. In one we read : 
'• Two or three great geniuses suiBce to advance theories very far in a short 
time, but practice demands greater sloAvness, because it depends on too many 
hands, most of which are j^l^s habilcs.'" liQadpcu/iahihs, i. c. little qualified. 
Again : " Father Malebranche had taken little pains to cultivate the faculty 
of imagination ; on the contrary, he was very prone to decry it ; but he had that 
faculty in a very high and vivid degree, though it labored for an ingrate in 
s])ite of himself, and directed (nrdonnait) reason while it hid itself from her." 
Kead emhelUshed (ornalt) reason. In an edition of Fontenelle printed at the. 
close of the last century, the word Monsieur, or its substitute the capital M.. 
has been suppressed before the name of every personage; so that Fontenelle. 
the most scrupulous observer of all proprieties, is made to call M. de Pontchar- 
train simply Pontchar train, or the Chancellor ; the Minister M. de Maurepas. 
Maurepas, &c., &c. He had said : M. Tournefort, ]M. Leibnitz, M. Newton, 
&c.; the editor makes him say : Tournefort, Leibnitz, Neictem, Bossuet, Col- 
hert, Louvois, &c. In the Eloge of Sauveur we find : " One thing determined 
Sauveur to follow the sage counsel of Condom ;" Condom being the great 
Bossuet, then dead but a few years. This sort of anachronism changes the 
whole physiognomy of the book. 

Bosnage thus portrays Fontenelle : " Some pretend that mathematics dis- 
tort and impoverish the mind ; M. de Fontenelle might with reason serve to 
refute this disparaging idea in regard to mathematicians ; he carries not into 
the world that absent and dreamy air imputed to geometers ; he speaks not as 
a savant who knows nothing beyond the terms of his art. The system of tlie 
world, Avhich had been, for any one else, the groundwork of a dogmatical dis- 
sertation, not to be understood without the help of a dictionary, becomes, in 
his hands, an agreeable pleasantry, and the reader who dreamed only of being 
23 S 



354 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PAEIS. 

amused, finds himself in some sort an astronomer without having thought of 
being so." 

Voltaire writes to Fontenelle : " You know how to render things attractive 
wliich many other philosophers scarcely render intelligibhi ; and nature owed 
to France and to Europe a man like you to correct the savants, and give the 
ignorant a taste for the sciences."* No one more than Fontenelle possessed 
that " subtle and dexterous art " which he admired in Leibnitz, " the art not 
only of arriving at truth, but of arriving at it by the shortest paths ;" of occu- 
pying always those elevated points of view w^hich command wide horizons, and 
of separating or disentangling ideas, wdiich was constantly with him an object 
ot the greatest solicitude. 

The life of Fontenelle is so generally known that we shall recall but few 
particulars of it. Born at Rouen, he there composed most of his earlier works, 
and afterwards established himself in Paris, lie w^as a nephew of the great 
(Jorneille, who gave the Cid to France the year before that in which Descartes 
pt esented to it the Discourse npon Method. Much has been written about Fon- 
icneile, and the tone adopted has not seldom been sufficiently censorious, 
(rrimm, for instance, strongly reproaches him for his famous expression, "If 
I had my hand full of truths, I would take good care how I opened it." But 
(h-imm need not have been troubled ; Fontenelle, in spite of the phrase, opened 
ins hand often enough. Voltaire sarcastically calls him the discreet Fontenelle. 
Was it necessary that he should be as indiscreet as Voltaire ? The following 
>.'ayiugs of his seem better to paint his character: "I have never permitted 
u)yselfto cast the slightest ridicule upon the least of the virtues ;" and his 
njply to the llegent, who pressed him to accept the perpetual Presidency of 
ihe Academy, " Ah, Sire, do not deprive me of the pleasure of living with ray 
(•quals." 

Fontenelle was born the 11th of February, 1G57, and died 9th January. 
1131, having thus lived almost exactly a century. His birth and death con- 
nect two remarkable epochs, the death of Descartes and the meridian fame ot 
Voltaire. 

APPENDIX TO THE FOEEGOING SKETCH. 

" Fontenelle," says Arago, "had so brilliantly fulfilled the functions of sec- 
1 etary of the Academy of Sciences, that at his death no one was willing tu 
succeed him. v^fter much solicitation, I»Iairan consented to exercise those 
I'unctions, provisionally, in order to give the learned body time to make a 
choice which it should not afterwards have occasion to regret. It was felt at 
last that the only means of avoiding all injurious comparison would be to give 
to the nephew of Corneille a successor content not to imitate him, and who 
KJiould disarm criticism by the modesty of his pretensions. Under these cir- 
cumstances Grand-Jean de Fouchy became, in 1743, the official organ of the 
old Academy. 

•• Fouchy had occupied this place more than thirty years, when Oondorcet cn- 
U'r(!d the learned company. The age and infirmities of the perpetual secretary 
made him desire an assistant, and he cast his eyes on this the youngest of his 
colleagues. As this measm-e seemed equivalent to the creation of a survivorship. 
i;, proved distasteful to that portion of the Academy which usually allied itself 
with the views of Buftbn, while another portion, acting under the leadershij) 
of d'Alembert, with equal ardor supported the nomination." The oppo- 
sing candidate was Bailly, the astronomer, certainly a noble and worthy com- 



« Voltaire terms Fontenelle: "The first of men in the new art of diffusing light and 
g-iace over the abstract sciences ;" and he .adds : " That ho stand.s first among all the savants 
who have cot been gifted with the faculty of invention." (Siecle dc Louis XIV".) Fonte- 
nelle, it is true, made no discovery in the sciences, but he discovered the style for difiusing 
them. That new art of which Voltaire speaks is his invention. 



ACADEMY OP SCIENCES OF PARIS. 355 

petitor ; but the acrimony excited on this occasion was such as it is to be 
hoped may seldom be allowed to enter the halls consecrated to science and hu- 
man improvement. 

Eclitii doctrinii sapicutuni, teiiipla sercna. 

For some weeks, says Arago, the Academy presented the aspect of two 
hostile camps, and the asj^erity of the contest may be conceived when we learn 
that to the illustrious name of d'Alembert was. applied the stigma of having 
proved " equally faithless to friendship, to honor, and the first principles of 
honesty." The charge rested on the fact that d'Alembert, looking to an early 
vacancy of the oflice, had first held out encouragements to Bailly to qualify 
himself for its discharge, and six years afterwards had offered similar induce- 
ments to Condorcet. The only injury to the two young aspirants would seem 
to have been to engage them to devote a portion of their time to the composition 
and publication of probationary Elogcs, Avhich brought their r(\spcctive merits 
before the public eye and crowned them with the applause of the most judi- 
cious critics. " It is seldom," continues Arago, " that abstract principl(;s im- 
passion men to such a degree as on this occasion, while to the outward world 
the question clearly put seemed only to be, shall the successor of Fontenclh; 
be called Bailly or Condorcet?" The choice of the Academy fell upon Con- 
dorcet. 

It is to the period here reviewed, we must presume, that the words of the compi- 
ler of the article " Royal Academy of Sciences" in the Encyclopedia Britannica 
were designed to apply : "Through the intrigues or intervention of the court 
for the admission of unworthy members or the exclusion of the meritorious, the 
Academy had gradually sunk in public estimation until admission not only 
ceased to bo an honor, but even became a subject of contempt and derision. 
Hence the following humorous and well-known epitaph : 

' Ci-git Piron, qui ne fut ricn, 
Pas meme academien.' " 

Here there is a manifest confusion of objects. Such names as those of La 
Lande, Reaumur, Maraldi, De la Caille, Daubentou, d'Alembert, Condamiuc, 
Adanson, Daniel Beruouilli, Borda, Fontaine, Ilaller, Lavoisidfe, and others, 
ihickly strewn through the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences of that time, 
satisfactorily refute any presumption that it had ceased to merit or maintain its 
hold upon public respect or its title to the lasting admiration and gratitude of 
mankind. The writer of the «r;'/<:7e might have quoted other sarcasms directed 
to the same object with the epitajih. Tims, when Voltaire was asked in Eng- 
land respecting the Memoirs of the Academy, he replied : *' It writes no me- 
moirs, but it has published sixty or eighty volumes of compliments." And 
the above-named Piron had said that a discours de reception at the Academy 
ought never to exceed three words ; " that the recipiendary should say, ' Many 
thanks, sirs;' and the director shovdd reply, ' Sir, there is no occasion for any.' " 
But all these taunts were aimed at a different academy from the above ; at what 
Voltaire termed the " academie de paroles," as he styled the other the "acad- 
emic de choses." Yet the petulance of satire can scarcely lead us to believe 
that even the Academie Francaise, which still numbered among its members 
a d'Alembert, a Bufifon, a Voltaire, had sunk so low as to render admission 
into its ranks " a subject of contempt and derision." True enough that the 
vices of its regimen, as exhibited by Arago, had done much to reduce it to a 
stiite of servility and imbecility. " Until I75S, the subjects for prizes proposed 
by this Academy exclusively related to questions of devotion and morality. 
The eloquence of the competitors was thus called upon to exercise itself suc- 
cessively on the science of salvation, on the merit and dignity of martyrdom, 
on purity of mind and body, on the dangers which lurk amidst seeming secu- 
rity, &c. The Are Maria even was paraphrased. Each discourse was to be 



356 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 

terminated by a short prayer. Accepted papers were never allowed to reach 
the public until they had been submitted to the rigorous censorship of four 
doctors of theology ; nor could the approbation of the high dignitaries of the 
church -which the distinguished assembly always counted among its members 
secure any dispensation from this humiliating formality." ( Arago ; Elogc de 
BaiUy.) 

The interference of an external influence foreign to the spirit and embarrass- 
ing to the ends of the institution certainly existed also in the case of the 
Academy of Sciences ; but here it seems to have been limited to courtly in- 
trigues for the admission or exclusion of particular persons. Arago shows us 
in his Autobiography that he piqued himself in no small degree on having some- 
times successfully disconcerted the unauthorized procedures of a minister, and 
even on one occasion thrown discountenance on the advocacy of the king. 

The official term of Condorcet as perpetual secretary conducts us to the 
period when, in common with other learned bodies of the kingdom, the Acade- 
mies of Paris fell before the levelling force of the Revolution. Their suppres- 
sion took place in 1793. They may be considered to have been revived by 
an ordinance of 1795, in an associated form, under the name of the National 
Institute, in which a distinction into classes superseded the ancient name of 
Academies. Of these classes there were three : 1. The class of the physical and 
mathematical sciences ; 2, that of the moral and political sciences ; 3, that 
of literature and the fine arts. This latter class represented as well the Acad- 
emic francaise as the former academy of inscriptions and that of painting. The 
name of National Institute has survived all modifications of form and changes 
of dynasty. 

M. Flourens thinks it worthy of note that on the day (1 pluviose an IV) 
when the National Institute held its first public sitting, Cuvicr read before it 
his memoir on the sjjecies of fossil elephants compared with living species. "In 
this memoir," he observes, "the illu.strious savant announces, for the first time, 
his views respecting lost animals. Thus on the very day when the Institute 
opened the first of its public sessions, there was opened at the same time the 
career of the grandest discoveries made by natural history in our age ; a sin- 
gular coincidence, and one which the history of science should preserve." It 
is more to the present purpose to remark, that after a few temporary appoint- 
ments, Cuvier was chosen perpetual Secretary in the first class for the section 
of physical sciences, and that M. Flourens survives to this day as his only and 
immediate successor in that section, thus presenting through this long space of 
time a permanence of official tenure which, taken in connexion Avith the in- 
stances of I'ontenelle and Fouchy, must argue that in philosophical labors there 
is at least nothing unfavorable to relative longevity. The order of succession 
as perpetual Secretaries in the other section — that, namely, of the mathematical 
sciences — is Dclambre, Joseph Fourier, Arago, Elie de Beaumont, (18-54.) 

In 1803, Napoleon, who was then First Consul, prescribed some modifications 
in the form and probably in the spirit of the Institute. I'he class of moral and 
political sciences Avas suppressed, and of the remainder a fourfold division 
Avas formed: 1. The class of physical and mathematical sciences; 2, that of 
French language and literature ; 3, chat of Ancient history and literature ; 
4, that of the Fine Arts. Having thus eliminated the suspicious element of 
ideology. Napoleon continued, as he had always done, to Avatch Avith judicious 
and lively interest over the prosperity of the Institute, of Avhich he Avas him- 
self a member, often selecting the objects of his trust and favor from its ranks, 
and exacting from it reports upon the progress and prospects of science, Avhich 
he received in person Avith a distuiction and eclat not usually bestoAved upon 
such subjects in the courts of princes. This Avas cjuite conformable Avith tlu; 
spirit wiiich had led him in the campaigns of Egypt to sign himself in his 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. 357 

orders of tlie clay as "■mcmhcr of the Institute, commauding-in-cliicf" the army 
of tlie East."* (Arago; Eloge de Fourier.) 

Upon the Restoration a royal ordinance of March 21, ISIG, again conferred 
on the classes of the Institnte their ancient title of Academies. The first class 
once more became the Academy of Sciences; the second, the Academic fran- 
caisc; the third, the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles-Lettres; the fonrth, 
the Academy of Fine Arts. Finally, in 1832, Louis Philippe reinstated the 
proscribed class under the title of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences, 
and to the five sections, of which this was at first composed, the present Em- 
pen)r has added a sixth, devoted to politics, administration, and finance. The 
Institute, it is stated, now consists of 223 members, 31 associates, 228 corre- 
spondents, 7 secretaries, and 35 free academicians. 

The commemoration of deceased members by a notice apart, formed, as has 
been seen, an early, and has remained a constant part ofxtlie academic obser- 
vances. Of these notices it is said, by one of those most distinguished for their 
composition, that, equally Avith the memoirs of the Academy, "they were de- 
signed to have truth for their basis and their object." And although, as Cuvier 
remarks, it be difficult to observe the cold impartiality of history, Av^hen the 
hand is resting, as it were, on the funeral urn of an instructor or friend, yet the 
general candor with which they are written, the equity with which merit is 
assigned even if censure is softened or evaded,, cannot in most instances fail to 
secure the confidence of the reader. There is but little, perhaps, in English 
literature which resembles them, for it has been often complained that the bio- 
graphical notices of literary and scientific men are here but too frequently 
either limited to dry catalogues of writings and discoveries, or spread through 
such wastes of commentary and circumstance that the traits of individuality 
lose their distinctness and vivacity. "It seems," says an English reviewer, 
"to have been an established tradition in our literature that the 'life' of a man 
of letters must necessarily be a dull book." However this may be, the Avriters 
of the Eloges, from Fontenelle to Arago, have certainly contrived for the most 
part to fill the comparatively narrow outline to Avhich they are limited with 
such sharp and Avell-defined features of personality as to maintain an ever- 
varying interest in the subjects themselves as well as in their labors. There 
is here no gallery of scientific masks, but a succession of distinct and animated, 
if reduced, portraitures. The scientific value of the Eloges, on the other hand, 
seems to be assured as well by the ability ' of the distinguished savants to 
whom we owe them, as the character of the body to Avhich they were addressed ; 
and as the series extends from the middle of the seventeenth century to the 
present day, they are well calculated to show the successive steps and "devious 
paths" by which experimental philosophy has advanced to the "bright emi- 
.nence" from which it now challenges the confidence and admiration of the 
v/orld. — Translator. 

" "I can understand and appreciate the gronnds of your refusal," said Napoleon one day 
to a member of the Institute wlio had just declined a proiiered office. "You wish to devote 
yourself entirely to your pursuits. Well, I myself, had not fortune called me to preside over 
the destinies of a great people, think you that I would have haunted the bureaus and 
saloons in quest of official favor from any c^uarter as minister or ambassador? No; I would 
have thrown myself into the study of the exact sciences. I would have advanced in the 
path of the Galileos and the Newtous. And since I have constantly succeeded in all great 
enterprises, I should have highly distinguished myself by my scientific labors. I should have 
left the memory of noble discoveries. No other glory could have tempted my ambition." 
{Arago; Eloge de Thomas Young.) 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 



By M. FLOURENS, 
perpetual secretary of the french academy of sciences. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SJHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION DY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



"Dating from the first j^oars of the age of Louis XIV," says Voltaire, "a 
general revolution has been efiected in our arts, our genius, our manners, which 
must forever serve to mark the true glory of our country. This revolution," 
l»e adds, "did not stop in France; it extended to England, carried taste into 
Germany, science into Russia, and reanimated the languishing spirit of Italy." 
The period of which Voltaire speaks was in truth distinguished by the rise of 
an honorable and stj-enuous emulation among all the nations of Europe, and by 
an alliance of intellects which, deriving new force from mutual support, no 
longer feared to submit to investigation those great and fundamental questions 
wliose solution might have seemed forever hidden from us. 

In Germany, one of those who most contributed to inspire science with 
courage for arduous enterprises Avas Leibnitz. While this rare genius was 
meditating the proJ4,^ct of endowing his country with a great literary and scien- 
tific association, a colony of French savants, driven into exile by the revocation 
iif the edict of Nantes, came to seek shelter in his neighborhood. Profiting by 
this valuable aid, the Academy of Berlin was established. But the course of 
its prosperity was short. The reign of William I, the rigorous tactician, who 
thought of nothing but war, who measured the merit of his subjects by their 
.^tature, and defined savants frivolous inutilities, supervened. The learned 
assembly found itself from that moment discovintenanced, and was only restored 
to its position under the influence of the great Frederick. This last monarch 
jiracticed no disguise as to his admiration for France, of which he loved alike 
the literature, the philosophy, the language, and above all the men of letters, 
whom he would fain have lured away to Berlin. In default of Voltaire or 
d'Alcmbert, he took from us Maupertius, and made him president of his 
Academy. 

Frederick impressed on all the mental activities of his country the ardor 
which governed himself. Enlightened by his example, the oldest and most 
noble families perceived that to dedicate their sons to the higher objects of 
intellectual toil, was at once to reflect honor on themselves and to acquire for 
the nation inexhaustible resources of utility and fame. At Stolpe, in the 
Uckermark, in the tranquillity of a residence inherited from many generations, 
one of these families, which could already point to names illustrious in diplo- 
macy and letters, numbered, among an attractive group of brothers and sisters, 
a young enthusiast, active and intelligent, but wayward and contemplative, 
who, neglecting the usual sports and pleasures of his age, devoted his childish 
admiration to the objects presented by the beautiful scenery in which he was 
nurtured. 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VOX BUCII. oOiJ 

After a preliminary course of instruction, tlic young Leopold Von Bucli, born 
April 26, 1774, quitted the banks of the Oder in order to enter, at scarcely 
sixteen years of age, upon new and more severe studies. The school of mines. 
a first step to geology, was that in which his aptitude and energy received thfii- 
earliest development. 

Few sciences are at once so recent and so old as geology. In every age men 
have sought to know hoAv the globe they inhabit was formed, and the problem 
has always proved highly embarrassing. Hence certain ancient philosophers 
were led to solve the difficulty by the very convenient supposition that the 
world is eternal. Fortunately, a Avriter much older than these philosophers, 
and, without himself suspecting it, much more learned, has transmitted to us a 
singularly fiiithful indication of the manner in which things had their beginning, 
and of the stages by which they have arrived at the state in Avhich we now see 
them. The record of Moses had become, at the end of the XVIIth century, the 
theme which exercised all intellects. Stenon, Burnet, Woodward, Whiston,* 
applied themselves to the study of the deluge described in Genesis, and thought 
that all the changes of the globe might be explained by the effects of that 
deluge alone. Liebnitzt was the first to comprehend that previous to the 
action of the waters, a still more energetic action, that of lire, must have been 
exerted; for all has been melted, all has been liquefied. "And Avhat other 
agent," he cries, "what other agent but fire could have been capable of dissolv- 
ing those mighty bones of the globe, those naked rocks and imperishable 
boulders: magna telluris ossa, midaque illce rtipes atque immortaJcs siUces! " 

To Leibnitz succeeded Buffon. In his Theory of the eafth, Buffon, as yet. 
saw nothing but the action of water; in his system on the Formatian of tin 
planets, he sees nothing but the action of fire; in his EpocJis of nature, his best 
considered and most perfect woi'k,| he skilfully subordinates the action of 
water to that of fire, assigns to each of these agents its part, to every event its 
place, to every fact its age; but this admirable book came too late. From tlu' 
appearance of the two earlier productions of Buffon, his cotemporaries had 
been divided; some had taken sides for his theory, some for his system. The 
first imagined everything to have been formed by water, the last by fire; these 
were called Vulcanians, those Neptunians. In England the Vulcanian;- 
acknowledged as their chiefs Hutton and Playfair,§ in France Desmarets and 
Dolomieu.|| The school of Freyberg, where Germany flocked around Werner,^[ 
became the centre of neptu7usm. It was here that the young Yon Buch 
arrived in 1791. 

Confided to the care of Werner, he was his favorite disciple, and an inmate 
of bis house. In long and paternal colloquies, the master, who united with the 

* Stenon: Nlcolai Stenonis de solido intra solidum nutiiraliter contento dissertationis 
Prodromus. Florentia, IGGO. 

Burnet: Telluris thcoria sacra, etc. Londini, 168L 

Woodward: An essay taicards the natural history of the earth, etc. London, 1695. 

Whiston: A ncio theory of the earth. London, 1708. 

t Leibnitz: Protogcc.a, site de prima facie telluris, etc. (Actes de Lcipsick,) 1683 

t Further developments on this point may be seen in the author's Histoirc des travaux et 
des idecs de Buffon. 

§ Hutton, (James,) born 1726, died 1797: Theory of the earth, with proofs and illustrations, 
in four parts. Edinburgh, 1795. This work is a reproduction of two former Essays or Me- 
moirs, published, the first iu 1785, the second in 1788. 

Playt'air, John: Illustrations of the Huttonian theory of the earth. Edinburg, 1802. 

II Desmarets, (Nicolas, ) born 1725, died 1815, was the first who, iu France, conceived the 
system of vidcanism. 

Dolomieu, (Deodat-Guy-Sylvain-Tancrede de Gratet de,) bom 1750, died 1801, was tlic 
{geologist w ho, before Von Buch, most advanced the theory of volcanoes and that of the 
action of fire on the globe. 

IT Abraham-Gottlob Werner, born 1750, died 1817, influenced more than any other man of 
his time the progress of geology. 



360 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

geuius of method the charm of eloquence aud the seductiveness of good nature, 
found himself hajipy in an opportunity of communicating to a quick and pene- 
trating intellect the treasures of knowledge which had been accumulated by 
long years of meditation and observation, and -which a disinclination for Avriting,* 
only to be accovmted for by his happy facility of speech, left him no other 
means of imparting. 

About the same period ^yith Von Buch, there arrived at the school of Freyberg 
several young men Avith whom he naturally entered into relations of friendship. 
These attachments, so easily contracted in youth, so often dissolved amid the 
conflicts of life, were with him as enduring as life itself. No simil^irity of aims 
ever disturbed the uniformity of his regard for Charles Fnesleben,t and through- 
out his whole career his love and admiration for Alexander Yon Humboldt, who 
to a less candid nature might have seemed a dangerous rival, were as unre- 
stricted as they were disinterested. 

At eighteen years of age he made a first trial of his strength by publishing a 
icscriptlvc minercdog]j,\ from the motto of which we learn the boldness of his 
aspirations : "What is new," he says, "extends, what is great exalts, the circle 
of our observation." Soliciting, two years after, employment in the service of 
mines, he addressed to the Minister Heinitz a second essay, equally evincing 
the early penetration of his intellect : "What I have sought to prove," he says, 
•'is the jjossibility of finding constant laws according to Avhich the formation of 
crystals takes place." A royal scholarship, with a commission for directing the 
working of the mines, was speedily conferred on him, and imposed engagements 
whose restraints %c submitted to for three years. But, independent in spirit and 
in fortune, with a rich future before him, knowing as yet no explanation of the 
great phenomena of the globe but those which the school of Freyberg admitted, 
and too clear-sighted to content himself with these, he threw aside the shackles 
of the artificial world with the badge of the engineer and resumed his liberty. 
'J'his fortunate breach of discipline, the first awakening of genius, was silently 
connived at by government, to the subsequent advantage of both parties. 

Of the disciples of Werncr§ it has been said, " that they dispersed them- 
selves through all countries, from pole to pole, in order to interrogate nature 
in the name of their master." Von Buch was pre-eminently one of those inde- 
fatigable interrogators of natm-e. He set out in 1797, directing his course 
towards the Alps, wandered for some time in the mountainous districts of Styria, 
passed a winter at Salzbourg,|| and then turned his steps towards Italy. He 
wished to visit the places where violent commotions have ruptured the crust of 
the earth and opened it, according to his own expression, to the eyes of observers. 
It was here, however, that his confidence in the infallibility of his school was 
destined speedily to be shaken. 

From Perugino, the young Neptunian already writes : " Here the different 
species of rocks seem to have been overwhelmed by chaos itself. I find the 
beds of porphyry above the secondary limestone, and the micaceous schists 
above the porphyry. Does not all this threaten with ruin the fine systems 
which determine the epoch of formations?" In a series of letters to his friend 

* Tlie -writings left us by Werner are few aud very sliort : Treatise on the characters of 
iiniierah, (J774, ) a work in which the spirit of Liuuo3us is predominant; Classification and 
description of mountains, (1787;) Ncio theory of the formation of mineral and metallic veins, 
( ]79l,) a work of a high order, in which tlie geuius of observation and method is everywhere 
visible. 

iJohan Karl Friesleben, (died 1846,) captain of mines at Freyberg, and known by his geo- 
logical writings on the gypsum of the Val-canaria, Formations of Thuringia, Sfc. 

t Materiaux pour une description mineralogique de la contrec dc Carlsbad. Freyberg, 

^ See the excellent work of d'Aubuisson de Voisins ; Traite de geognosie, etc., 1819. 
II A sojourn shared by his friend Humboldt, and memorable for the experiments of the latter 
on meteorology and eudiometry. 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 361 

de Moll, we seo tliat Italy appeared to his youthful and enthusiastic imaginntiou 
a promised laud ; and that though science is always in his thoughts, nothing 
escapes notice, and all sorts of observations gratify him. If the Albanian hills 
constrain him to modify the ideas which he had brought with him respecting 
the insignificance of volcanic effects, yet, in the midst of constantly recurring 
alarms for the system of his master, he pleases himself with the description of 
the beauties unfolded before his eyes: "Xature," he exclaims, " seems here 
inexhaustible in the creation of delights which spring up at every step. Whoever 
has not seen the sun set in the sea while his rays gild the cupolas of the eternal 
city, whoever has not watched on Lake Nemi the alternating play of the light, 
can form no conception of the charm of those regions." A tone such as this 
reveals the man for whona, during a long career, study and the seductions of 
travel are to be inseparably linked, and who in research is intent only on that 
which is exalted and aggrandized by its union with the emotions of the soul. 

Arriving at Rome, he there observes the doubtful traces of extinct volcanoes, 
and his disquietude increases. "lam lost," he says, "in the contradictions 
which seem to have been here accumulated. One knows not what to believe, 
nor even if it is permitted to trust one's own eyes." 

To him Vesuvius had always held out the promise of a revelation. At length, 
after several delays, he saw it, on the 19th of February, 1799. "I arrived," he 
tells us, "by way of the flair plains of the Campania; a fog which covered the 
horizon .suddenly vanished, and before me rose sublime the double peak of Ve- 
suvius crowned Avith eternal flame. There it is ! was the involuntary cry which 
an expectation so keen and so often disappointed drew from me ; Avhile the 
cloud in lifting itself seemed to aspire to unite the vast mountain with the 
heavens." 

On approaching Naples, the young German, brought into contact ■with a 
vivacious and impassioned population, felt a natural surprise at the singular 
contrast which the brisk petulance of the inhabitants of these climates forms 
Avith the phlegmatic earnestness of his native Germany: "Here," he says, 
"where language stems scarcely the competent organ of expression, where 
gesture seems tlie true language, how does everything recall the idea of that 
mysterious fire which we know only by its effects, and which strikes us in so 
unexpected a manner." 

Vesuvius, whose mysteries he so earnestly longed to penetrate, baffled him 
on this occasion with delusive hopes. He brought away little but a presenti- 
ment of the vast labors which lay before him: "I have seen the' crater and 
descended it," he writes, "but I have realized nothing but a religious horror 
which certainly gives me no insight into the connexion of causes and effects." 
Following the currents of lava, he retraces that which filled Naples with dismay 
in 1767, as well as the fiery torrent which some years later swept aAvay the 
town of Torre del Greco and spread far into the sea ; and animated by recitals 
stsJl impressed with terror, he paints the effects of this fearful unloosening of 
subterranean forces with a poetic energy which recalls the celebrated letter of 
the younger Pliny. From this first expedition our young savant was taught to 
comprehend that the study of strata tranquilly deposited by the waters is not, as 
was thought at Freyberg, the whole of geology, that nature reveals herself in crises, 
and it is only at such epochs that we can hope to detect secrets which were 
otherwise impenetrable. 

Von Buch left Italy, where fire in activity spreads its ravages, only to pass 
into France, where Auvergne offered him the most suitable of theatres for the 
study of extinct volcanoes. 

Buffon had seen in volcanoes nothing but a congeries of sulphurs and pyrites 



362 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

situated quite near tlic summit of mountains.* The sagacious and patient de Saus- 
sure had too long meditated and suftcred among the snows of Mont Blanc to con- 
cede much influence to mountains of fire. Werner, averse to what might disturb 
the regular order of nature, which he had 'elaborated, and interrupt the tranquil 
flow of his instructions, accepted volcanoes but as local and limited accidents. 
It was thus that matters stood, and would perhaps have long stood, had not 
two travellers, who happened to be detained on the road to Moulins, been 
struck at observing the great difficulty experienced by a mason at work near 
them, in breaking the stones v/ith which he Avas constructing a fountain : their 
hardness, color, and porous structure recalled to one of the observers the lavas 
of Vesuvius. " Whence do you bring these stones ? " he asked. " From Volvic, 
near Riom." " Volric/ Vulcani, vicus ; there must have been a volcano 
there," said our celebrated naturalist, Guettard,t to his friend Malsherbcs ; "let 
us take the road to Auvergne." This they did; it was in 1751. Guettard 
discovered a whole chain of extinct volcanoes, and revealed to his fellow-citi- 
zens that they trod a soil once on fire ; the lavas, the cinders, the scorioe, the 
mountains, with their craters, all lent confirmation to the fact. The unexpected 
announcement was received, we are told, with astonishment, and even with 
alarm. 

Twelve years later, the practical and sagacious Desmarets, in the course of 
one of those excursions in which he traversed the whole of France on foot, 
made a visit to the Puy de Dome, and clearly distinguished the pillars of 
black stone, whose figure and position struck him with their resemblance to 
what he had read respecting basalts and giant causeways. In their regularity, 
these columns bore the indications of a melted product ; t and further investi- 
gation left no doubt on the miud of Desmarets that they had been cast by the 
action of fire. 

" "Perpendicular fissures, some larger, some smaller, have doubtless been formed in vast 
numbers in the body of the mountain. The rain, of course, penetrated into all these fissures, 
and taking up or dissolving whatever siibstances were callable of being thus acted on, have 
iormed pyrites, sulphurs, and other combustible materials ; and when, in a long succession 
of ages, these had accumulated in immeuse quantity, fermentation and conflagration have 
taken place, producing the explosions and other effects of volcanoes. Perhaps, also, there were 
masses of these mineral substances already existing before the rains could reach them, but 
whenever openings or crannies, by which the. water and air could penetrate, have been 
formed, ignition has taken place in the inflammable matter and a volcano has been the 
result." — Buffon, 1, p. 287. " The fire of the volcano comes rather from the summit than 
from the lower depths of the mountain." — Id., 1, p. 285. (The author cites here and else- 
where his own edition of Puffon, just published in ]2 vols. 8vo. ) 

t Guettard, (Jean Etienne,) born ]7I.^), died 1786: Memoirc sur quelques montagnes de 
la France qui out cte des Volrans. ]\Iem. do 1' Academic des Sciences, 1752. 

X That the columns were almost always found at the termination of long courses of lava 
which had themselves issued from craters still discernible, carried conviction to the mind of 
Desmarets. "In 1763," he says, " I traversed a part of Auvergne, where traces of volcanoes 
are to be seen, and particularly from Volvic to the Monts Dor. On the route from Clermont 
to the Puy de Dome, I perceived prisms of a black and compact stone, like that which cov- 
ered a great part of the surface, the prisms resting on a bed of scoriae. It was evident that 
they pertained to the crust of black stone enveloping the high plain which leads to the foot 
of the celebrated mountain. When I considered the inconsiderable thickness of this crust 
established on a bed of scoriaj and overlying a mass of granite which had undergone no 
action of fire, the idea at once occurred to me that here was the product of a current which 
had escaped from a neighboring volcano. Proceeding on this idea, I ascertained the lateral 
and extreme limits of the deposit, and still found the prisms, presenting in the perpendicular 
section their faces and angles, and on the surface their bases perceptibly distinct from one 
another. I was thus decided in the belief that the prismatic basalt belongs to the products 
of volcanoes, and that this constant and regular form is the result of the state of fusion in 
which the lava once existed. There can, I think, be no doubt that the groups of prismatic 
coliunns in Auvergne pertain to the same conformation with those of the county of Antrim, 
in Ireland, and that the constant and regular form is in Antrim the result of a cause similar 
to that which announces itself in so uniform a manner in Auvergne." — Desmarets : Mcmoire 
sur Voriginc et la nature dii hasaltc a grandes colonncs polygoncs, &c. — (Mem. de I'Acade- 
mie des ISciences, 1771.) 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VOX BUCH. i^bd 

The igneous origin of basalts, the action of fire, then, Avas established, but 
where did this formidable agent reside ? It was another French geologist who 
ventured for the first time to answer, at great depths beneath the solid crust of 
the globe ;* a revelation which we owe to the genius of Dolomieu, so severely 
tried with misfortune, but endowed sometimes with an utterance which might 
seem little less than inspired. 

These extinct craters and molted basalts, these fires at profound depths, 
strangely interfered with the system of the excellent AVcrner, who would 
admit of nothing beneath the granite, and could see nothing above it bi;t deposits 
of aqueous formation.f It was a step, therefore, towards independence when 
Leopold von 13uch ventured, first among the German Neptuuians, into the very 
focus of vulcanism, to assure himself whether Auvergne, as it was described, 
really pertained to the existing world. The surprise he had felt at Penagino 
was here, of course, redoubled. Here, not nature alone offered him her guid- 
ance, but the men of genius also who had preceded him. AVhat might not this 
young and vigorous intelligence hope, if successful in recovering the clue of 
those grand ideas with Avhich these localities and phenomena had inspired his 
predecessors ! 

His exploration of Auvergne was persistent and profound. He applied to 
it all the resources of his mind, and may be said, by this i\)rcing process, to 
have here conceived the germs of all the lofty views to the development of 
which his after life was consecrated. The account of this visit is filled with 
the traces of hesitation and of eflbrt. At the sight of the basalts, he exclaims, 
"How is it possible to believe in their igneous origin when we recall the rocks 
which accompany them in Germany ; and yet here how is it possible to doubt 
of it 1 " In view of the subverted and displaced strata, he says : " I see the 
whole edifice fall to pieces which, by a sweeping arrangement of the series of 
rocks, gave us the structure of the world at the same time with its history." 
Contemplating that long chain of hights (Pu]js)\ which stretch in succession 
from the Mont Dore, he is struck with a preconception of the pos^sibility of 
the upheaval of the entire mass of these volcanoes : " What, indeed, prevents 
lis," he asks, " from conceiving the whole mass of the Mont Dore to have been 
thus lifted upl" 

Voltaire tells us that a Frenchman who, in his time, had passed from Paris 
to London, would find things not a little changed. He had left the universe 
a flenum ; he would find it a vacuum. He had left behind a philosophy which 
explained everything by impulsion ; he would find one which explained every- 
thing by attraction. When our young savant passed from Germany into 
France, something of the same sort had occurred to him. 

* " The first conclusions to be drawn are, that Uert the volcanic products pertain to a mass 
of materials which differ from granites, and are situated beneath them; that the volcanic 
agents resided under the granite and wrought at depths very far below it." — (Dolomieu: 
lie-port made to the National Institute on his travels in the years i798-'99.) " To be as exact 
as possible," adds Dolomieu (as if alarmed at the temerity with which he had overstepped 
received ideas,) "I have taken care always to use the adverb tiere, in order to restrict to the 
precise localities which furnished my observations the conclusions I draw from them. But 
tliere is reason for believing that the same is the case with all other volcanoes, whatever may 
be the nature of the surrounding formations ; that it is at great depths within or below the 
solid crust of the globe that the volcanic agents as Avell as the bases of all their ejections 
reside, and that it is there that lie concealed the causes which supply the flame attending the 
eruptions and which produce the fluidity of the lavas." 

There is nothing in geology more celebrated or which longer prevailed than the system 
of Werner : a universal and tranquil sea deposits, in vast masses, the primitive rocks, dis- 
tinctly crystallized, in which at first silex predominates. The granite underlies all ; to this 
succeeds gneiss, Avhich is but a granite beginning to foUate; by degrees clay gains tho 
preponderance; schists of different sorts appear, &c. 

Werner never quitted Saxony, and it may be said of him that he was too hasty in con- 
cluding that all the world was constituted like his own province. 

; IPuecli ov Puick, an old Aquitauiau word, signifying mountain. — Tr.] 



364 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

Werner had pronounced tliat all rocks, without exception, porphyry, granite, 
even basalt, were the product of water ; here the granite, the porphyry, the 
basalt, bore irrefutable testimony to the action of fire. Werner had taught that 
the superposition of strata had observed always the same order ; the granite 
below the gneiss, and porphyry below the limestone, &;c. In Italy and Au- 
vergne the whole order was reversed ; iu one place the granite, elsewhere the 
porphyry, occurred above the limestone. Werner had said that the seat of 
volcanoes did not descend below the limit of the coals, the source, as he taught, 
of the materials which maintain them. Here the focus of the volcanoes showed 
itself beneath the deepest rocks, the porphyry, the granite, the terrestrial en- 
velope. Werner, in fine, had seen in volcanoes only accidental and local phe- 
nomena of comparatively small potency. In Aavergne everything demon- 
strated the extent and power of those hidden and profound forces which had 
sufficed to elevate immense rocks, and even entire mountains, such as the Cantal 
and the Monts Dore. 

The exploration of Auvergne, in opening to Von Buch a whole scries of 
sublime views, impressed him with the necessity of calling new resources to his 
aid. It was said of him, by an Englishman, "that he went everywhere to take 
the measure of those who cultivated his favorite science;" and whaf he had 
learned respecting the sagacity of the French savants seems now to have inspired 
him with the desire of taking their measure. He Avent to Paris, formed con- 
nexions there, and among others with Haiiy, the kindness of whose reception 
he acknowledges in terms v/hich show how highly he prized the words of en- 
couragement extended to him by this great master, Tho museums, the collec- 
tions, the libraries, were no less objects of eager interest than the conversation 
of accomplished men. Levying contributions from every source, he referred all 
to his one great task of active labor and incessant meditation. Among the 
common elements of character, vanity was one in which he seemed wholly de- 
ficient. Impelled to constant observation as if by a necessity of his nature, he 
may be said, on leaving Auvergne, to have made but one tour, but it Avas a 
tour which Listed his whole life. "What mode of conveyance do you prefer?" 
he was asked by somebody who thought himself an observer. "What!" re- 
plied M. Von Buch, leaning on his inseparable umbrella, "you do not know how 
a geologist ought to travel?" As regards himself, he might have been seen 
traversing afoot, at one time, the entire chain of tho Appenines ; at another, 
that of the Alps ; passing, in the same Avay, from the craters of Vesuvius to the 
mountains of tScotland ; from Etna to the snoAvs of the polar circle ; again at 
his favorite station of the Monts Dore, on his route to Paris, Avhere the society 
of kindred minds might delay but could not detain him. He gave no notice of 
his arriA'al, and still less of his departure. A savant, surprised at receiving a 
visit from Vim and going to return it, would not improbably find that he had 
again disappeared, and learn by a letter from Naples, perhaps, or Stockholm, 
Avhere it would be necessary to inquire for M. Von Buch. At Paris, one day, 
a geologist of note going to see him, met him on the threshold of his hotel, \\m- 
brella in hand. It Avas a bad sign. " You are going out ; alloAv me to accompany 
you." "Willingly." "But where are you going?" "To Berlin." 

Setting out, as Avas his Avont, every spring, he took Avith him no companion 
but the faithful one just mentioned; no guide but his impulse ; no baggage but 
his book of notes, his barometer, tAvo or three faA'orite volumes, and aboA-e all, 
that indefatigable pick to Avhose blows so many rocks have resounded ; all con- 
tained in the vast pockets of a double vestment, Avhich, ahvays the same and 
proof against CA^ery change of temperature, generally bore the marks of this 
manifold serA'ice. If night overtook him, he directed his steps to the nearest 
toAvn and presented himself at the best hotel, Avhere his odd equipment could 
not but lead occasionally to singular mistakes. But, as the fragrance of his 
probity and kindness survived all other impressions, these strange apparitions 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 3G5 

of Ills came at last to be regardetl, by tlie villagers among whom lie passed, 
somewhat iu the light of those of the benevolent genii of the old German legends. 
Each season saw him return, at a stated time, to the paternal manor, where a 
brother, Avho was blind, awaited him, and whom he would allow no one but 
himself to conduct to the waters of Carlsbad. 

In 1S04, Vesuvius having shown some signs of disturbance, he repaired 
thither anew ; this time in company with MM. dc Humboldt and Gay Lussac. 
The combined observations of these eminent men resulted in a scientiiic expo- 
sition of all the effects associated with volcanic eruptions. Vibrations of the 
earth were recognized as their inseparable concomitants ; the nature of the 
gases exhaled, the composition of the lavas, the force, development, and dura- 
tion of these terrible phenomena were all, for the first time, submitted to a 
discriminative examination. 

Nominated, in 180G, a member of the Academy of Sciences of lierlin, Von 
Buch read, on the occasion, a discourse on the progression of forms in nature. 
The philosophic view of the succession of beings had been advanced l)y Buffon, 
and the recent labors of Cuvier had furnished a wonderful commentary. Ger- 
many was struck with admiration at these sublime views, derived from France. 
In this discourse the author paints the successive gradations of the creation ; 
inorganic bodies serving for elements in a world which is preparing for animated 
beings ; animated beings taking their place one after the other, from the most 
simple up to the most complicated ; up to man, the last term of the progress, 
whose appearance suggests these striking words : "To the existence of this 
being, the freest and most exalted of all, a vast concourse of physical causes 
was necessary. He alone encompasses the globe from one pole to the other ; 
detaches himself, by an internal force, from matter ; elevates himself above it, 
and, this achieved, who shall presume to trace for him a limit?" 

Some thirty years before the date of these expressions the famous book of 
Pontoppidan had, in some sort, revealed to Europe countries which belong to 
it, but which were then as little known as certain tracts of India or America. 
The soil of the Scandinavian peninsula — at that time a vii-giu one, as regards 
researches — held out to Von Buch a promise of new impressions. No sooner, 
in fact, does he arrive at Christiana,* than he finds mountains of porphyry 
resting on limestone, and enormous masses of granite supported by fossil-bearing 
strata. Thus was the last blow given to his early faith, and from this time he 
thought no more of defending Neptunism. 

He devoted two years to a study of the formations of Sweden and Norway. 
Proceeding with his accustomed energy, sometimes by land, sometimes by sea, 
he explored the singularly indented coasts of the Scandinavian peninsula, 
ascending as far as the barren rocks of the North cape. He was occupied -with 
the solution of an imposing problem. 

Eor more than a half century the inhabitants of the coast thought they had 
observed a gradual depression of the level of the sea. At tlie suggestion of the 
celebrated astronomer Celsius there had been marks cut in the rocks at Gefle 
and Calmar. Linnajus had himself traced a level on a block, which he describes 
with botanical precision. Here a maritime city having become an inland one ; 
there an arm of the sea having been transformed into a highway ; and all tra- 
dition concurring, the people of the country could no longer doubt of a diminu- 

• * Porphyries in huge masses, iu mountains even, are seated ou a calcareous, slioll-bearing 
rock. These porphyries again arc covered by a sienite almost entirely composed of feldspar 
in large beds, and this sienite is buried under a granite which is in nowise distinguished, as 
regards its composition, from a granite of the most ancient formation. 

^' These phenomena, which give undoubtedly great geological interest to the environs of 
Christiana, have been observed with niucli sagacity, and described by M. llaussmann, pro- 
fessor at Giittingen, in a special mcuioir, inserted iu the journal of the Baron de Moll." — ( ^on 
Buch, Voyage en Noriccgc et en Laponie.) 



366 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

tion of the waters. " How singular a phenomenon ! " exclaims Von Buch ; " and 
to how many questions does it give rise"?" After due consideration he adds: 
"It is certain that the level of the sea cannot subside ; the equilibrium of the 
waters forbids it. Yet the phenomenon of their retreat is no less unquestion- 
able, and there remains but one admissible idea — that of a general upheaval of 
the laud from Fredericshall to Abo, and perhaps to St. Petersburg." 

When this striking idea was annoiinced, the full importance of its bearing 
could not be at once foreseen. The demonstration of an upheaval of part of 
our continent is the discovery which has most strongly contributed to fortify 
the new theory of volcanoes and that of the origin of mountains, while it has 
given the most general insight into the continual effort, the incessant reaction 
of the interior of the globe against its envelope. 

At the extremity of the peninsula other phenomena awaited the observer. 
The eternal snows, Avhich hover in an atmosphere still capable of developing 
or<ranized bein<rs, and which, in the torrid zone, maintain themselves at the 
level of the summit of Mont Blanc, occupy, ou the coasts of Finmark, hills 
scarcely more than five or six times the height of our tallest buildings. Here 
our ingenious Rcgnard had once essayed to brave the rigors of a region then 
deemed inaccessible, and, in view of the interminable wastes of ice, had described 
himself in verses which, he says, "were destined to be read only by the bears," 
as having reached the end of the world : 

Ilic tandem stetimus nobis ubi defuit orbis. 

Much further than this end of the tcorld, and beyond the polar circle, after 
the long and dismal winter, M. Von Buch was witness of that horcal summer, 
so curious and so little known, which he calls the season of day — a day which 
lasts for two months. Writing on the 4th of July, he says : " The continual 
presence of the sun and constant serenity of the air give to the days of these 
countries a peculiar charm. At the approach of midnight, when that orb pro- 
longs its course towards the north, the whole region enjoys a perfect calm; the 
clearness is at every moment the same. It is only by the sinking of the mer- 
cury that the advance of the evening can be ascertained. After no long interval 
all nature begins once more to be reanimated ; the mists rise from the surface 
of the earth ; small waves on the waters show that the air which comes from 
the north presses with more force towards the south. The sun ascends from 
the horizon, its rays operate, and the murmur of rivulets, swelled by the melting 
snow, sensibly increases, until, through the effect of another night, one feels 
nothing but a soothing warmth." 

Nor is Scandinavia less characterized by its inhabitants than its physical 
phenomena. Its icy waters and its lichens suffice to sustain the agility and 
vigor of the reindeer; that noble and docile companion of the nomadic life of 
the Laplander, a specimen of our race who bears in his stvmted form and rustic 
manners the impress of the zone into which he has ventured to introduce our 
common humanity. By his side, but v/ith marked differences, appear the Nor- 
wegian of the coasts, disdainful of his shrunken neighbor, and the agricultural 
Finn, who, in his softened manners, has carried civilization to the limits of the 
liabitable world, and even aspires to borrow from us our most refined enjoy- 
ments. " I have seen," says Von Buch, "in a town near the North Cape, a 
public library, in which, by the side of the Danish poets, appeared the master- 
pieces of Corncille, Moliere, and Racine." 

As a scientific authority. Von Buch now stood so high that he might avcII 
feel conscious of being a master in the field of higher generalizations, a field so 
vast and so rarely attained. His return was greeted with respect by his 
country,, his academy, by learned Europe in general. Recurring to the theatre; 
of his earlier labors, he traversed, for several following years, the mountaia 
chains of Oent;"al Europe, Avith an attention always fixed on the grand ideas 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VOX BUCH. 367 

whicli he li.ad propounded, namely, that thci disorder of the primitive strata of 
the globe pertains to a profound subterranean cause which is connected with 
volcanic action ; that not only the basalts but all crystalline rocks have issued 
from the earth in the state of lava, and that to the reactions of the earth arc 
to be referred the elevation of mountains and that of entire countries,* such as 
Sweden. 

In the winter of 1814, while absorbed in tliese thoughts, he found himself at 
London, as he might at times be found everywhere, and there encoiuitered an 
accomplished Norwegian, the botanist Smith. " Our conversation," says Von 
Buch, " happened to turn on the facility witli which one may trans])ort himself 
from that capital to almost every known region, and the desire of profiting by 
it became so strong that we presently resolved to set out for the Canary 
islands." A fortunate re:»olution, Avhich has endowed geology with a work 
that will remain the mark of one of its most important advances. t 

The Canary islands had been already visi'ed by skilful observers, among 
Avhom we may distinguish one of our former and most valued colleagues, M. 
Cordier, the continuer of Dolomicu ; but hitherto they had only been studied 
for themselves. Von Buch studied them in subordination and with reference. 
to his general conceptions. 

His book is composed of two parts. The first embraces all the details of 
description : the study of rocks, elevation of mountains, variations of climate, 
&c. In the second and most important, the author sets forth, in a few pages, 
equally admirable for precision of language and fullness of information, his 
whole theory of volcanoes ; the result of long and critical observation of what 
is most general and constant iu those grand but hitherto mysterious phe- 
nomena. 

After succinctly defining a volcano to be " a permanent communication be- 
tween the atmosphere and the interior of the globe," he distinguishes the effort 
v/hich elevates from the effort which rwptures ; the first gives him what he calls 
the crater of elevation, the second the crater of eruption. He shows that in 
each volcano thei-e is a central point around which the eruptions take place, 
aud that this central point is always the highcs»t summit — the j)eah — of tlu; 
volcano. He. discerns, further, a common action between all the volcanoes of 
the Canary islands, connecting with the peak of Tenerifte the eruptions of the 
Isle of Palma, and these last with those of Lancerotte ; for these eruptions ar»i 



* It would be more exact to say the deration of entire countries and of mountains; for, a.f- 
cording to Von Buch, it is the red porphyry which in the first instance elevates countries or 
continents, aud the augitic, the black porphyry, which transpierces the red porphyry ai;d 
elevates the mountains. 

"The upheaval of the pf/ro^-f/i if; porphyry is posterior to the fonnation of the red sand- 
stone and of the calcareous strata; but these sandstones are essentially connected Avith the 
formation of th(^ red porphyry, and can scarcely be separated from it. It follows that the 
pyrogenic porphyry nmst have pierced the red porphyry as-well as the sandstone, and to have 
pierced it, must have raised up this porphyry itseUV — Von Buch : Lctlre d M. dc Humboldt, 
renfermant le tableau gcologiquc dii Tyrol meridional, 1822. 

'■ From these considerations, I should not liave been suqjriscd to see, somewhere in the ir- 
terior of these valleys, pyrogenic porphyries below the red porphyry. I have, indeed, 
fioupjht for them in the whole extent of this last formation, but almost everywhere without 
success. I was more fortunate in descendino: the valley of the Avisio. After having been con- 
stantly proceedinj^ on quartz-bearinp: porphyries as far as Cembra, at some leaij^ues above 
the opening of that valley, I recognized below tluit place, and at the edf^e of a kind of plain, 
a very considerable mass of the pyrogenic formation, Avhose black color contrasts singularly 
with the red of the prevailing quartz-bearing porphyry, and wliich is decidedly distinct from 
the latter. It is evidently a rock, whose mass pertains to the formuticin of tho pyrogenic 
poiphyry. Its aspect clearly shows that it is engaged in tho red porphyry, <!xcept towards 
the i)ase, where it is connected, probably, with a mass of the same nature, which extends uu- 
di'.y all tho mountains of the Alps." — Ibid. 

t M. de Hiunboldt, in reference to this wo'k, said : " Leopold vouIJuch is the first who has 
recognized the interconnexion and mutual de])eudonco of volcanic ;)h(.'Uomena, and Itiii 
thciehj proved himself the greatest geologi-t of our epo"/'!." 



368 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON lillCH. 

all associated, (soUdairesj aud one uever commences until the otlier has ceased. 
As, in hands so skilful, the thread of analogy, once seized, is never broken, 
from the volcanoes of the Canaries he passes to those of the entire globe, 
and ranges them all under two classes, central volcanoes aud volcanic chains. 
The first form the centre of a number of eruptions which take place around 
them ; the second are all disposed in line, each following the other in the same 
direction, like a great rent or fissure of the globe ; being, as Von Buch adds, 
probably nothing else but such a rent. From these isolated points of rock, 
elevated by fire, transporting his view over the innumerable isles everywhere 
scattered in the ocean, he combines them all under the generic name of isles 
of elevation, thus dispelliug the opinion which long regarded the former as the 
relics of a submerged continent. 

Scarcely had he returned from the Canaries (about 1819) when some inquiry 
led him to the Hebrides, whose basalts formed the object of his visit, and thus 
the giant's causeway became the route which reconducted him to Germany. 
There, a new problem hurries him to Paris ; and though it is the midst of win- 
ter, and a bruised arm, the result of his precipitation, threatens to detain him, 
he takes with him a young relative, and this time travels post, for his impa- 
tience is extreme. " If," said he, " Humboldt should have quitted Paris, the 
great city would seem a desert to me." He arrives, however, in season, and 
the two friends meet ; but how is time to be found for long conversations ? All 
the saloons are emulous of Humboldt's presence. The interviews, however, 
take place regularly, only they commence at midnight and do not terminate 
until morning. 

This strain of scientific excitement, added to the cold, renders Von Buch 
really ill. M.-d'Arnim,* his young relative, hazards some expressions of 
blame. " True, it is my own fault," replies the culprit, " the fire of the chim- 
ney near which we were talking had gone out and I felt chilled ; but by making 
a movement to rekindle it I should have perhaps hastened Humboldt's depar- 
ture. I preferred suffering to being deprived of his conversation, aud am 
Avell content, for I have gained much by it." 

Hitherto Von Buch had presented his leading idea of the upheaval of 
mountains with the reserve distinctive of the conscientious though bold in- 
quirer. In 1822, after a new exploration of the south Tyrol, he shows him- 
self more decided, and in a letter to Humboldt, on that country, has giA'cn us his 
ultimate determination in regard to those great and hazardous questions. Here 
he pronounces, with an authority which no one as yet had acquired on this 
subject, that all the projecting masses on our globe owe their present position 
to an actual upheaval.! In this he finds an explanation of the fact, till then 
inexplicable, that marine shells occur on the summits of the highest mountains ; 
not that the seas have risen to those summits,| it is the mountains which have 
been raised from the bottom of the seas. Never had a graver difliculty, nor 
one which longer resisted the efforts of ingenious minds, been solved in a sim- 

* I am indebted to M. d'Arnim for most of the private traits of character g'iven in this nar- 
rative. 

t " The pyroxenic porphyries of Fassa owe their actual position to an iipheaval. But we 
must carefully observe that it is not the particuhar elevation of a rock which is in question, 
but the lifting rrp of the whole mass of mountains, and consequently of the entire country." — 
Letter to M. dc Humboldt, &c. "It is now many years since I entertained a doubt that the 
whole chain of the Alps — at least the calcareous Alps — owed its elevation to the pyroxenic for- 
mation. • This formation breaks the strata which oppose its egress. It pierces or upheaves 
fii\st the red porphyries, then the sandstones, then the calcareous strata." — Ibid. 

t "Reflecting on the effects of these upheavals, we shall be less sui-{nised at meeting 
with petrifactions of anomia' in the sandstones and calcareous strata at the height of nearly 
8,000 ieet above the Sasso di Val Fredda. These same petrifactions, which are found at 
.5,400 feet above the passage of the Caressa, 3,800 feet above Seiss, "2,600 feet above Saint 
Paul and C'altern, were, perhaps, before the catastrophe of the upheaval, situated lower than 
the level of the seas." — Letter to M. de Huviboldt. 



MEMOIE OF LEOPOLD VON'bUCH. ■ 369 

pier manner. By reversing the fact and presenting it as it really occurred, the 
explanation at once presents itself and changes the face of the science. 

With Von Buch it was inevitable that one discovery slioiild lead to others. 
Thus, a first view reveals to him the upheaval of mountains and that of conti- 
nents ; a second, the mechanism of the formation of volcanoes ; a third, the re- 
lation which connects the displacement of seas with the elevation of mountains. 
One of his most prolific views, that of the discordance of rocks, disclosed to 
our distinguished colleague, M. Elie de Beaumont, (a geologist who, by his own 
labors, has united the researches of Cuvier with those of Von Buch,)* the first 
germ of his learned theory of the relative age of mountains. We owe still an- 
other highly ingenious and novel concep-tion to Von Buch. His explanation 
of the formation of dolomite, f or, more generally, of the alteration produced on 
deposited and sedimentary rocks by. the incandescent rocks of elevation which 
have traversed them, though still subject to some difficulties,! must always be 
looked upon as an indication of a high order, and as having marked out for 
modern geology one of its most important objects, the study of the secondary 
action of fire on the envelope of the globe. 

After so many brilliant labors, the smiling banks of the Spree, with the re- 
turn of every autumn, continued to recall this eminent and indefatigable man 
to the quiet retreat which he had chosen. There, a simplicity, the more charm- 
ing as it was wholly voluntary, presided over the economy of his daily life. 

t " Ciivier has shown that the surface of the globe has undergone a succession of sudden 
and violent revolutions. Leopold von Buch has indicated detinite and marked differences 
between the several systems of mountains which diversify the surface of Europe. I attempt 
nothing but to bring into relation these two orders of ideas." — Elie de Beaumont : Reclierches 
sur qudques-unes des revolutions de la surface du globe. 

t By the formation of dolomite, Von Buch designs more precisely the change of calca- 
reous shell-bearing stone into calcareous magncsian stone. 

" How-comes it that tlie magnesia can pierce, traverse, change the nature of the calcareous 
beds, which are many thousand feet in height, to make of them a rock uniform in its whole 
extent? It is acpiestion which I have proposed to myself in all my excursions in the neio-h- 
borhood of the valley of Fassa, without finding a solution. The calcareous stone does not 
contain magnesia. It comes, then, from another quarter, and it is quite natural to believe 
that it is the pyroxene which furnishes it, since magnesia is one of the constituent parts of 
this substance. I think I have discovered, in the environs of Trento, the process of nature in 
this operation, and this process has appeared to me so evident that at the instant of the ob- 
seivatiou I experienced the most lively satisfaction which 1 have ever felt in my excursions 
across the Alps." — Lettre d M. de Humboldt, Sec. 

" We can easily conceive that a mountain rent and fissured must lose every appearance of 
beds ; that thousands of channels arc opened for the magnesia to introduce itself and com- 
bine with the calcareous rock ; that by little and little all the mass must change into rhombo- 
hedrons ; and it is in this way that compact beds, filled with shells, may change into a mass 
uniform, white, granular, and saccharoidal, without a vestige of organized bodies or any hor- 
izontal lissures whatever " — Ibid. 

"This splitting recalls the phenomena which may be daily observed in limestone furnaces 
when the fire is withdrawn from them. In going from Cortina, in the valley of Ampezzo, to 
Toblacli, iu the Pusterthal, one is surrounded, during the whole transit, by peaks of dolo- 
mite. The aspect of these places is so singular that we might think ourselves transported 
into the midst of an immense furnace. The fragments of dolomite are traversed by immense 
clefts ; they appear rough to tlie touch, like all substances exposed to the fire. One is 
tempted to attribute these extraordinary effects to the high temperature which the pyroxenic 
porphyry had acquired when it penetrated through the inferior strata, and lifted up the dolo- 
mite in the form of columns, pyramids, and towers. I am persuaded that this same pyrox- 
enic rock has converted the compact masses into granular masses, that it has caused the dis- 
appearance of every vestige of stratification and of organized bodies, and that it has given 
rise to those fissures which are strewn with crystals. We can no longer doubt that it is the 
compact limestone, which is constantly found uuder the dolomite and above the sandstone, 
that has been whitened, fissured, and transformed into a granulated rock." — Lettre sur la 
dolomie du Tyrol d M. Alois de Pfaundler . 

t On these difiiculties, see the important and ingenious labors of MJI. Ilaidiuger and 
Morlot. [The subject will be found also elaborate!ly discussed in the article on the meta- 
morphism and crystallization of rocks, by Mr. Daubree, translated for and published in the 
Smithsonian report for 1861.] 

S4 s 



370 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

The necessity of peaceful labor, and, therefore, of silence, had induced him to 
limit his personal retinue to unity, and when age had relaxed the activity of 
this one faithful domestic. Von Buch, like Leibnitz, had his food brought to him 
from without. Often his door was opened by himself. If the stranger Avas 
one whose presence seemed likely to be importunate, to the question, " Is M. 
Von Buch at home ?" he would quietly reply, " No ;" and, closing the door, re- 
turn to his occupations. The young princes of the royal family were some- 
times among those Avho hazarded the experiment, and their admission was due 
not so much to their rank as to the affectionate relations which existed between 
Von Buch and his sovereign, who, among other marks of his favor, had made 
him one of his chamberlains — a chamberlain, it must be confessed, of very 
slender assiduity in his office. If the interruption was occasioned by the ar- 
rival of a savant, on the very threshold, and without waiting to bid good day, 
he would encounter the visitor with some such question as this : " Is the semi- 
hi-lohatc divided ammonite found also in Thuriugia ?" 

An unappeasable curiosity had directed our geologists' inquiries to that part 
also of the terrestrial envelope which is traceable to the action of water, and 
which paleontology had recently occupied in its search for the remains of ex- 
tinct races. 

Since life appeared on the globe, it has undergone many vicissitudes and 
clothed itself with many forms ; different species have succeeded one another, 
and as each has surrendered its spoils to the cotemporary strata, these relics 
determine the relative age of the deposits, and the history of life serves to il- 
lustrate and complete the history of the globe. Von Buch, after Buffon, aptly 
compares fossil shells to medals, and adds, in terms of his own, that these 
medals also have their language. In a series of memoirs on the ammonites, the 
terchrat'eda, the productus, &c., he has taught us the means of interpreting that 
language; the new and difficult ai't of distinguishing with certainty the species 
which identify the several strata, by characters on which he had bestowed the 
most earnest and profound study. Nor were his efforts for restoring the ancient 
annals of the world limited to shells; to fossil botany he brought the same aid, 
a precise determination of characters, which he had conferred on fossil geology; 
80 that the expressive epithet which he gave to certain fossil shells and leaves, 
calling them guiding ones {eonductrices), might well be transferred to himself. 
He has truly proved, in these delicate investigations, a guide to other geolo- 
gists. 

But to be an intellectual guide did not alone suffice for this good and emi- 
nent man. Wherever he could discover young persons whose success seemed 
only trammelled by the rigors of fortune, he was sure to interpose ; and, as if to 
compensate for the modesty of his own wants, he acted on those occasions with 
a regal munificence. Such instances were numerous and were seldom made 
public. 

Towards a vessel ready to sail, a young savant was one day directing his 
steps ; his baggage was light, though he had divested himself of his patri- 
mony to procure the means of pursuing his explorations in America. By the 
wayside a stranger is Availing for him, and says : " A friend, impelled by a de- 
sire to promote the progress of science, begs you to employ this in its service;" 
he places a purse in the hands of the traveller, and disappears. Being once 
at Bonn, Von Buch received a visit from a youthful professor of that uniA^er- 
eity, Avho desired letters of recommendation, as he Avas about to join a scien- 
tific expedition. Return to-morroAv, replied the distinguished savant. The 
interval is employed in seeking information. At the hour prescribed, the young 
man presents himself, the letters are ready, they converse ; Von Buch becomes 
animated, affectionate, gives advice, and finally says to the visitor at taking 
leave : " I have a serAice to ask of you." " Compliance Avill give me plea- 
sure," is the prompt response. " Yes, yes," cries Von Buch, " they all say the 



MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 371 

same thing, and afterwards complain that I have charged them witli commia- 
sions which annoy them." The young man protests, cannot conceive how he 
shonld be suspected of insincerity and ingratitude. " Very well," replies the 
adroit interlocutor, " give me your word of honor that you will not even answer 
me after receiving my commission." The other pledges himself. " Now that , 
I have your word," resumes Von Buch, "here arc 2,000 dollars which you are 
to make use of in your travels." As the injunction did not extend to silence, 
the recipient felt constrained afterwards to share the secret with others besides 
his benefactor. A young painter, tormented alike by the fever of art and the 
anguish of destitution, was languishing at Rome ; there was nothing which 
singled him out but his talent and his misery. Von Buch charges one of the 
embassies with the remission of a considerable sum; and that the artist may be 
restrained by delicacy from attempting to jienetratc the mystery, he is to be 
told that it is a family restitution of an ancient date. 

As it was one of the chief pleasures of Von Buch's life to restore hope to 
the unfortunate, so it peculiarly suited his character to act as a peace-maker 
between the learned Av hen divided in opinion ; before all things, however, it 
was indispensable that science, his sublime mistress, should be treated with the 
most exact respect. Just and generous in his appreciation of men, he was al- 
ways zealous in setting forth the merit of the labors of his cotemporaries. A 
sure and constant friend, though blunt, eccentric, and at times impatient, he 
was ever ready, if umbrage were taken, to make the advances necessary for con- 
ciliation. Among intimates he was fond of recounting the ludicrous mistakes 
which had beeu occasioned, during his travels, by the grotesque appearance 
under which he presented himself. 

He loved society, but not what is called the great world. Those who had 
seen him at court, whither his office, as well as the proprieties of his station in 
life, sometimes led him, might have thought him drawn thither by his tastes, 
but his resort even there Avas to the circles in Avliich intelligence supplied the 
attraction. In these, the graces of language springing from an active and full 
mind, re-cuforced by a surprising memory, gave to his conversation when he 
was in the vein a peculiar charm. Polished in the company of females, he 
knew how to appreciate those who in the courteous collisions of Avhich our 
saloons are the lists, and which we call conversation, furnish by their sprightly 
sallies often the best, but certainly the most graceful contingent. This admi- 
ration, however, never trenched upon the liberty which he had consecrated to 
science. Von Buch never married, but, in return, the family affections exer- 
cised over him the blandest and most potent influence, and his love for the 
young, towards Avhom he could find indulgence for everything but self-suf- 
licicncy, prompted many of the actions of his life. 

When far advanced in age, he still quitted his domestic roof with the first 
breath of spring. " I shall travel," was his simple announcement, and a walk 
would conduct him from Berlin to Dresden, to the surprise of his more seden- 
tary associates in the latter place j thence his course Avould be prolonged as far 
as Bohemia or Switzerland. It was when an old man that he scaled the moun- 
tain ranges of Greece, seeking among the extinct populations only those which 
ally themselves with the real world, and finding more attraction and instruc- 
tion in the chronology of a shell than in all the brilliant fictions which ani- 
mated Parnassus and Ilymettus. 

In 1850, a German university having summoned naturalists to a congress 
intended to celebrate the memory of Werner, Von Buch Avas present, and of 
course became the centre of all regards, a tribute Avhich, with an affectionate 
simplicity, he studiously referred to his early master. " As for myself," he 
pleasantly said, in allusion to the only official title which he had ever adopted, 
" I am nothing more than the oldest of the royal pupils of the kingdom of 
Prussia." His return from this reunion conducted him through the country of 



372 MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. 

his birth, and the view of those fair scenes which he animated with the memo- 
ries of his youth, phmged him into reverie. It was observed that he passed 
a long night in deep meditation, in which he seemed to address to the places 
he was regretfully leaving a touching and silent adieu. 

He came once more, however, to visit France, whose genius he loved, and to 
sit in that Academy to which he prided himself in belonging. He left Paris 
only in the last days of 1852, and peacefully breathed his last in the spring of 
1853. 

Von Buch, who had qualified himself for the direct contemplation of nature 
by always and everywhere pursuing her indications, has left us an example of 
one of the noblest of scientific careers. He had the happiness to consecrate a 
long life and a penetrating genius to the profound and unwearied study of one 
of the highest questions of natural philosophy. Descartes had suspected 
the igneous origin of the globe;* Leibnitz had inferred its incandesccncet 
fi-om the traces everywhere apparent of a vast pristine fusion ; BuiFon| had 
demonstrated the existence of the primitive fire, still subsisting, and more and 
more concentrated in the interior of the earth ; Dolomieu§ finally had pro- 
nounced before this Academy the words adopted by Lagrange :|| "This 
globe, at first incandescent and fluid throughout its whole mass, is still so in 
its interior, and has nothing solid but its crust;" but no one more contributed 
than Von Buch to prepare the vast and sublime generalization which dares to 
place in this profound and central fire, of Avhich, however, he himself has 
nowhere pronounced the name or fully admitted the idea, the first and sole, 
the potent and terrible cause of all the revolutions of our globe. 

The author thinks it his duty to acknowledge the assistance he has derived, 
in preparing the above memoir, from the eloquent and learned Notices of the 
great geologist, published in Germany, by MM. Geinitz, professor of the Poly- 
technic School of Dresden ; Gotta, jirofessor of the School of Mines of Prey- 
berg ; Dechen, director of mines at Bonn ; Noggeratli-, professor at the Uni- 
versity of Bonn, and a fifth, anonymous, pronounced April 6, 1853, before the 
Geological Society of Germany. 

* "Let us suppose that this earth on which wo reside has been once a star composed of 
matter of the first element absohitely pure, so that it diftered in nothing from the sun except 
in being smaller." — (Descartes: Les Principes dc la Philosophic, IV part.) 

t "It seems that this globe has been once on fire, and that the rocks which form the 
base of this crust of the earth are scoria remaining from a vast fusion." — (Leibnitz : Proto- 
gcea, &c. ) 

X "The internal heat of the globe, still actually subsisting, proves to us that the ancient 
fire which the earth has sustained is not yet by any means entirely extinct; the surface is more 
cooled down than the interior. Conclusive and repeated experiments assure us that the entire 
mass of the globe has an inherent heat, altogether independent of that of the sun. This heat 
we recoo-nize in a palpable manner as soon as we penetrate into the interior of the earth, and 
it augments in proportion as we descend." — (Buffon: Epoqucs de la Nature.) 

§ "While insisting on facts which seem to me of great importance, and again repeating 
that the unknown cause which produces the fluidity of lavas appears to me to exist imder 
the consolidated envelope of the globe, I should add that it is not without design that I em- 
ploy the expression consolidated envelope; for if I cannot doubt that our globe has once been 
fluid, there is nothing to prove to me that there can be anything consolidated about it but a 
crust more or less thick ; nothing to show that the consolidation, which has been necessarily 
progressive, has yet attained the centre of this spheroid. I regard the general opinion which 
ascribes a solid nucleus to our globe as a gratuitous hypothesis, and the opposite hypothesis 
appears to me much more probable, since with it we can explain a multitude of important 
facts which, without it, are inexplicable." — (Dolomieu: Rapport fait dV Institut national sur 
ses voyages de Van V, VI. — Journal de Physique, 1798.) 

y "The suftrage of the illustrious Lagrange is of too great weight and too flattering not to 
be insisted on when one has had the good fortune to obtain it. It was not without much 
timidity and circumspection that I hazarded this hypothesis before my colleagues, when the 
celebrated geometer, warmly seconding my opinion, asserted that it was not only highly 
tenable, but that to him it appeared the more probable inasmuch as there seemed to be nothing 
in dii-ect opposition to it."— (Dolomieu: Ibid.) 



MEMOm OF LOUIS JACQUES THEMRD. 



ByM.FLOURENS, 
perpetual secretary of the french academy of sciences. 



TRANSLATKD FOR THE SMITHSOxVIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



Alcliemy, the offspring of man's love for the marvellous and proncness to 
credulity, and therefore almost as old as the world itself, was introduced into 
Europe by the Arabs. It promised riches and health : no Avouder it was re- 
ceived with general homage. Its immediate object was that mysterious sub- 
stance the j)hUosophcr'' s stone, by means of which it proposed to effect the 
transmutation of all metals into gold, to cure all diseases, secure an indefinite 
term of life, and open for men an intercourse with spiritual beings. Thousands 
of ardent adepts dedicated their lives to this chimera, one of whom has thus 
described his fellows: "An eccentric, hcteroclite, heterogeneous, anomalous sort 
of men, possessed of a strange and peculiar taste by which they ingeniously 
contrive to lose their health, their money, their time, and their life." From the 
midst of the darkness, however, leaped some vivifying sparks ; these indefati- 
gable seekers bcc[ueathed us several enduring acquisitions ; it is to them we 
are indebted for gunpowder, alcohol, the mineral acids and antimony, lloger 
Bacon, Arnaud de Villeneuve, Raimond Lully, Valentine, Paracelsus, Van Hel- 
mont, Becher, are the representatives of this heroic age of chemistry, which 
recognizes them as its authors. 

Absurdity long shackled the progress of the new science. Saint Simou 
gravely tells us that the Duke of Orleans, "who diligently cultivated chem- 
istry, had used all its resources to get a sight of the devil, but without success." 
That elder age of the alchemists, which had failed in supplying the means for 
getting sight of the devil, had been followed by one which did succeed in 
getting sight of the Arabian remedies, an achievement, according to Giii Patin, 
of just as little value. " I have made enemies, he complains, of all the Ara- 
bian cooks who, with antimony alone, slay more persons than the King of 
Sweden has done in Germany." He describes the physician of Cardinal 
Mazarin as one who "piques himself on three things which no wise man ever 
did — a knowledge of chemistry, astrology, and the philosopher's stone; it is not 
with such fine secrets as these that maladies are to be cured." One of these 
fine secrets, however, was destined to make its way in the world. Lemery, 
arriving at Paris in 1G66, attached himself to Glazer, then demonstrator at the 
Jardin du Eoi, as the best source of experiments and analyses. "Unluckily," 
says Fouteuelle, "he found that M. Glazer was a true chemist, full of absurd 
ideas, and jealous even of these." Quitting him, therefore, Lemery entered 
himself as master apothecary, inseparable then from the character of chemist, 
and opened a course of public lectures. "His laboratory," Fontenelle tells us, 
"was less an apartment than a cavern, which might have been taken for a magi- 
cian's, lighted as it was only by the glare of furnaces. Yet the resort to it was so 
great that the operator could scarcely find room for his exhibitions." This 
course was printed, and as it professed to divulge what Avas then called the 



374 MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 

secrets -of clwmistry, tlic book sold, adds Fontcnelle, "like one of gallantry or 
satire." It is true that, by using intelligible language and precise ideas, Lemcry 
cleared away mucli that was mysterious and gave an important impulse to 
chemistry. But a science only acquires consistency when known facts are 
united by a common bond. This the German physician, Stahl, attempted to 
effect in regard to the great phenomenon of combustion, and his explanation 
of that phenomenon, by the disengagement of a principle which he called 
phlogiston, held learned Europe in thrall for fifty years. 

This system was overthrown by a Frenchman who, though idly charged 
with being too much of a finaiicier for a savant, and too much of a savant for 
a financier, made his own epoch the great epoch of chemistry. Lavoisier 
began with teaching us that air, the medivim in which we live, is composed of 
two gases, one of Avhich, oxygen, serves for respiration and combustion, while 
the othei*, azote, is unsuitable for those pin-poses. He showed that an animal 
immersed in oxygen breathes therein with more energy than in common air, 
but dies if immersed in azote. He demonstrated that combustion can never 
take place without oxygen ; that metals, in calcining, increase in weight, and 
that they acquire this increase because oxygen luiitcs with them. This theory 
of combustion, by the decomposition of air and fixation of the oxygen, seemed 
to leave nothing wanting when the illustrious chemist further evinced that this 
same oxygen was also the principle of acidification. 

Nothing could be more simple and satisfactory than this chain of discoveries. 
Under the impetus thus given the progress of chemistry became a series of 
marvels. France must ever mourn the sacrilege which prematurely terminated 
the life of her gifted son, but the interests of chemistry did not languish in the 
hands of the Berthollets, the Fourcroys, the Monges. Illustrated every day 
by some new application, this science rapidly advanced to a popularity which 
none of its sisters could emulate. 

The story is told us that a boyish herdsman one day exclaimed, " Wei'e I 
Emperor, I would tend my cows on horseback." "And I," rejoined his com- 
rade, "would eat meat three times a v>^eek. "For my part," cried the third 
and youngest, "If such a thing should happen to me, I would be paid thirty 
farthings a day, that I might give twenty of them to my mother." Animated 
by some of these primitive and better inspirations, which find no echo in our 
large cities, three vigorous lads of Champagne were traversing, on a fine morn- 
ing in spring, one of the great routes which lead to the capital of France. 
With swelling hearts and light purses they had quitted the paternal roof and 
the village of La Louptiere, near Nogent sur Seine, and had turned their faces 
towards Paris, not with a view to make their fortunes there, but from an ambi- 
tion to add something to the stock of knowledge which they had gathered from 
the lessons of his reverence, the curate, and father Bardin, then the oracle of 
the department. One of the three looked forward to nothing less than being- 
physician of his parish ; the others proposed to occupy the same field, as apothe- 
caries ; the most enterprising of the three thought of adding something to the 
profits of the laboratory by a small trade in groceries. What justified the 
more avaricious projects of the latter was the circumstance that his parents, 
honest tillers of the soil, had lost some moderate resource through the undis- 
tinguishing violence of the revolution, and were burdened besides with the 
support of five other children. The one now departing, moreover, had been 
ever the ambitious hope of his mother ; what more natural than that he should 
form plans for her gratification. 

As our young adventurers neared the great city, the centre of so many illu- 
sions, it occurred to the most circumspect of the party that it would not be 
amiss to scrutinize the resources of their budget. Scrupulously told, the con- 
tents could by no dexterity of computation be brought to authorize an outlay of 
more than sixteen sols (eightpeuce) a day for each of them. This considera 



MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 875 

tion determined them to direct their steps to the furthest recesses of the J. at in 
Quarter, and even there it was only in the highest story of one of the build- 
ings that they found the refuge of a common chamber. Under the same rooi' 
there happened to be then domiciled a family of those hardy natives of 
Auvergne, who, that they may some day possess a rood or two of land and be 
enabled to die among their mountains, distribute for thirty years water and 
charcoal among the inhabitants of the capital. With the maternal .head of this 
family the young financier, whose thoughtful foresight has been already sig- 
nalized, opened negotiations for himself and his comrades, and although the 
difficulties of the situation were avowed with the ingenuousness of seventeen, 
and the Avorthy dame could not but feel the risk she incurred in undertaking to 
provide for the demands of three young stomachs on such scanty resources ; 
although it was now the epoch of "ninety-four," and she a mother, or rather 
• perhaps for that very reason, she agreed to receive them as boarders. Thus 
were physical needs provided for ; 

• Food and a shelter; -who could ask for more? 

It remains to say that the conductor of this negotiation, one of the most 
critical of his life, who thereby secured himself a footing in Paris, was Louis 
Jacques Thenard, born May 4, 1777. Once or twice in the beginning of this 
engagement it happened to him to be too late for the culinary arrangements of 
mother Bateau. The trying abstinence which such a lapse of attention imposed 
left its lesson. "I acquired from it," he said in after life, "a habit of punctu- 
ality from which I have never deviated, and which adds to the claims of that 
excellent woman to my grateful remembrance." 

Two eminent men were then engaged in teaching chemistry. Fourcroy, bv 
the clearness of his intellect and a ready and learned method, had achieved a 
success which secured him universal reputation. Vauquelin, less brilliant but 
more experimentative, had amassed by incessant labor the materials with which 
he has enriched science. Our young champagnard, all eyes and cars, lost not 
one of their lessons; he listened and still lislened; at length conscientious self- 
examination satisfied him that he comprehended nothing. At this mortifying 
discovery, one which the incapable never make, he arrived on a sincere scrutiny 
of the obstacle at the conclusion, that in a science not purely speculative it is 
necessary to begin by a practifcal initiation. Vauquelin, who was then poor, 
gave admission into his laboratory to such of his scholars as could pay a fee of 
twenty francs a month, but with such a condition Thenard had no means of 
complying. Yet here alone could he see any resource, and therefore, taking 
courage, he presented himself before the professor, candidly disclosed to him at 
once his penury and his inclination to labor, and entreated to be received, if 
even on the terms of a domestic assistant. Vauquelin had, however reluctantly, 
before discarded such offers ; the analogy of his own situation at one period d\([ 
not prevent him from beginning to frame a refusal, when happily thejuterposing 
voices of his own sisters, who had entered at the moment aiid were touched by 
the mortification, the intelligence and even, through sympathy, by the provin- 
cial accent of the young candidate, came to his succor. "Ah, do not send 
him away; observe how modest, how docile he is; he would not only be useful 
in the laboratory, but would mind our pot of soup, Avhich most of your dawd- 
lers suffer to spoil by overboiling." Thanks to this lesson in practical chemistry, 
Thenard Avas accepted. "I have never been so imgrateful," he used afterwards 
to say, "as to forget that a pot which is allowed to boil can make but indifferent 
soup." His rapid intelligence and accommodating nature soon made him a 
favorite with the youth who frequented the laboratory and procured him at the 
same time the means of extending the circle of his studies and developing his 
singular dexterity. 

Three years now passed by without bringing any marked alleviation of his 



6ih MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENAED. 

condition, but 'without any abatement on bis part of heart or hope, Vauquelin 
at length procured him a tutorship in an institution, and Thenard, though look- 
ing but remotely to the exigencies of a lecturer's chair, felt the necessity of 
reforming an accent and gesture which reflected the impressions of his native 
province. For this purpose, as well as from a veiy decided taste, he attended 
the theatre as often as his stomach would compromise for an abstinence suffi- 
ciently long to justify an expenditure of thirty sols. One morning Vauquelin 
said to him: "I am summoned to Rouen; my course has commenced; you 
must occupy my place." Unavoidable deliciencies could not but make them- 
selves perceptible, at the first lecture, to the new professor as well as to his 
audience, but each succeeding one was marked by so much improvement that, 
at the fifth, Thenard ventured to cast his eye over the throng and discovered 
Vauquelin and Fourcroy, in a corner, smiling at his efforts. At the sight he 
precipitately abdicated the chair. But from that time those eminent men 
labored in concert for his advancement, and succeeded in securing him an assist- 
ant professorship at the Polytechnic School. The earliest accession of a little 
ease and leisure Avas but a signal to Thenard for the institution of original 
researches. Beginning with 1799, when his first Memoir was presented to the 
Academy, that body has known him, for more than half a century, to lay before 
it, several times in each year, the results of inquiries wdiich have formed the 
basis of striking improvements in science, the arts, and industry. Summoned, 
one day, unexpectedly and not a little surprised, into the presence of the min- 
ister of the interior, the latter said to him : "There is a deficiency in the supply 
of ultramarine blue, Avhich is, besides, always scarce and very dear, and Sevres 
stands in need of a material which can resist an intense fire. Here are fifteen 
hundred francs; go and find me a blue which will answer the required condi- 
tions." Thenard began to stammer an excuse. " I have no time to lose," said 
Ohaptal, the minister in question, in a petulant tone. "Go and bring me my 
blue as soon as possible." In a month from that time the rich tints of the 
beautiful fabrics of Sevres bore witness to the success of the chemist. 

In 1803, Thenard had shown that the supposed zoonic acid Avas but an 
impure acetous acid, and although Berthollet, then in the zenith of his reputa- 
tion, Avas the discoverer of this acid, the circumstance produced no change in 
the generous appreciation «Avhich the latter ahvays manifested for his young 
competitor. Nor Avas this the only occasion on Avhich Thenard, firm in the 
expression of his own couA^ctions, Avas called upon to contravene so imposing 
an authority. When occupied Avith the oxidation of metals, he unhesitatingly 
maintained the idea of oxides in fixed proportions in opposition to Berthollet, 
Avho denied it. 

Thenard dcA'oted much attention to organic chemistry, and although later 
inqiiirers have advanced beyond him, there still remains to his share the merit 
of having clearly conceived and indicated the relations Avhich connect chemistry 
with physiology. This science of life rests on an art in Avhich chemistry is 
pre-eminent, on the high and delicate art of analysis. It was this art Avhich, 
in its higher and more subtle applications, Condillac first introduced into phil- 
osophy, and LaA^oisier tells us that he himself derived it from that acute thinker. 

In 1807 appeared researches of great interest on ethers. These, it Avas 
known, are formed by distilling certain acids Avith alcohol, and this was all that 
Avas knoAvn. Thenard announced several ncAv ethers; and, yet more, laid a 
foundation for the theory of these agents, Avhich haA-e already revealed to us 
some of their surprising effects on life, and doubtless hold in reserve others 
more STirprising still. 

During this period of engrossing application, Thenard AA^as, early one morn- 
ing, surprised by a \nsit from Vauquelin. "Up, in all haste," cried the visitor, 
"and apparel yourself handsomely." Thenard, scarcely aAvake, asks an explana- 
tion. " The laAv respecting pluralities forces me to resign my chair at the Col- 



MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENAED. 377 

lege of France, and I require you to go at once and apply for it." Tlienard 
feels a delicacy, "Come, come," rejoins the professor; "be quick; I have 
taken the cabriolet by the hour and you ruin me with these delays." The 
necessary visits being made, Thenard readily secured the position Avhich con- 
duced so much in the end to his extraordinary popularity. The students 
seemed to attach themselves with peculiar enthusiasm to one raised by toil from 
their own ranks and wholly unchanged by his elevation. Vauqueliu, who con- 
tinued to watch over his interests, and who greatly admired in Fourcroy the 
charms of delivery which he himself neglected, would fain have invested his 
favorite pupil with this additional attraction, and Thenard readily lent himself 
to the attempt. It was perhaps the only experiment in which he ever failed. 
In vain did he seek for models in society, counsels from' his friends, instructions 
from our great actors. Mole and Talma; the cliampagnard was destined to bear 
to the end the original impress, somewhat rough perhaps, but thoroughly French, 
which detinitely consigned him to a type well recognized and not a little vaunted 
by our national self-esteem. 

A few years only separated Thenard from the period when foreign invasion 
had made it necessary for France to improvise nearly all the resources incident 
to war. To this end, none had contributed more efficiently than Monge and 
Berthollet, Avho afterwards accompanied Napoleon to Fgypt, and were often 
consulted by him when subsequent successes had placed him at the summit 
of power. "Tell me," he said one day to Laplace, "why it is that I see at 
present so little of Berthollet?" "My friend," replied Laplace, "has become 
embarrassed through his undertakings for the advancement of industry, and is 
chagrined that it should be so." "Tell him to come and see me," said the 
Fmperor. Soon after, seeing his old Egyptian at the extremity of the saloon, 
he goes directly to him and extends his hand. " Berthollet, you are iinhapp}^ 
and you do your friends the injustice of not confiding your cares to them : 
name the sum you require, and think no longer of anything but your researches." 
Berthollet was then initiating in these researches a young man whose zeal and 
intelligence rendered him an invaluable assistant in the laboratory. Gay 
Lussac, in his earliest memoirs, gave evidence of that precision of thought and 
accuracy of*judgment to which in the sequel chemistry has been indebted for 
so many important services. An analogy of position soon induced between 
him and Thenard relations of confidence and co-operation, while both were so 
fortunate as to enjoy the advantages of the scientific retreat which Berthollet 
had created for himself at Arcueil, and which Laplace often animated by his 
presence and patronage. 

About this period a great sensation was produced in the scientific world. 
Berzelius had just revealed the power of decomposition exerted by the voltaic 
pile upon compound bodies. Uavy, availing himself of more poAverful appa-« 
ratus, had succeeded in decomposing the two fixed alkalies, which till then had 
been considered simple bodies : in potash and soda he found, united with oxygen, 
two metals to Avhich he gave the names of potassium and sodium. He after- 
wards undertook the analysis of the alkaline earths, each of which afibrded a 
peculiar metal, while in all, oxygen presented itself as a common principle. 
Proceeding still further, he disclosed, in a paper full of original views, some 
of the profound relations which connect chemical with electric forces, affinities 
with electricity. With generous enthusiasm, the Institute of France awarded 
to this paper the grand prize founded for the progress of galvanism; and 
though war was raging between the two countries, the English savant was 
invited to come and receive it in person. This was an act of justice nobly 
accorded. 

" Will you tolerate this triumph of the English ?" impatiently demanded 
Napoleon of Berthollet. A gigantic pile was forthAvith constructed by the 
Emperor's order, and confided to Thenard and Gay Lussac, who soon after 



378 MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENAED. 

were able to announce to tlie Academy that by means of the ordinary affinities 
tliey had succeeded in obtaining new substances more abundantly than by tbe 
pile. By employing- potassium and sodium, they effected tlie isolation of a new 
and simple substance, which they named boron. 

Davy recognized the superiority of the chemical method for the extraction 
of metals ; but he claimed this boron as an element which had come to light 
through his own investigations. This Thcnard and Gay Lussac would by no 
means concede, and they were right ; but they maintained at the same time 
that sodium and potassium, so far from being simple bodies, were combinations 
of alkalies with hydrogen, or hydrurets. Their English rival justly answered 
that, if they adhered to this theory, it would follow of course that their simple 
principle of boron was but a hijdrurci of horic acid — an argument which re- 
mained unanswered. This, however, was the commencement of a discussion 
which, with profit to science and ciedit to both countries, continued for not less 
than five years, and Avhich marks the epoch at which the basis of existing ideas 
respecting simple bodies Avas definitely fixed. 

In one of the memoirs in which Uiey rendered an account of the different 
aspects of their controversy with the English savant, Thenard and Gay Lussac 
had said : "The conjecture is not inadmissible that oxygenated muriatic acid 
is a simple body." It was not without having first tested this acid with potas- 
sium, and strenuously sought to extort some evidence of oxygen, that they gave 
expression to such an opinion. For, if oxygenated muriatic acid were ad- 
mitted to be a simple body, a new principle of acidification would be disclosed, 
and a serious breach be thus made in the theory of Lavoisier. Recoiling 
from tins consequence, and restrained moreover by the immovable opposition 
of Berthollet, they lie:ntated to pronounce more decidedly. Hence the recog- 
nition which they evaded passed to the credit of England. Davy admitted 
the oxygenated muriatic acid as a simple substance, giving it the name of 
chlorine or cldorlum, but at the same time he generously resigned to his two 
rivals the first indication of the new principle. Thus the grand theory of 
Lavoisier was subjected to modification, though without forfeiting its title ta bo 
considered one of the noblest contributions of French genius to science. 

The two friends, whose resources and reputation had been constatitly increas- 
ing with their labors, had, during this whole controversy, been so completely 
identified in effort and responsibility, that the learned abroad were disposed to 
confound them in a single individuality ; and indeed the part borne by each 
remains to this day undetermined. When, in 1809, a course of instruction was 
opened at the Sorboune, both were called to participate. Here Thenard pro- 
posed to conduct an elementary course, Avithout discontinuing, however, his more 
abstruse labors at the College of France. So great Avas the concourse of pupils 
that space for accommodation was often deficient, and many Avho had Avaited 
long Avere forced to retire. This suggested to Thenard the propriety of pub- 
lishing his lectures. They appeared accordingly in four volumes, the first 
edition in 1813, the sixth in 1836, each edition costing much labor, as the author 
continued to intercalate the discoveries and doctrines of successive periods. 
This Avork maintained an exclusive ascendency in the schools for more than a 
quarter of a century, so that it may be said that almost all Europe has learned 
chemistry of Thenard, and doubtless most of the great chemists of the present 
day, French or foreign, Avould take pleasure in acknoAvledging their obligations 
to his clear and comprehensive method. 

When the Institute lost Fourcroy, numerous competitors disputed Avith 
Thenard the honor of succeeding him. His friend Gay Lussac had the satis- 
faction of completing, by his first vote, the unanimity of voices Avith Avhich 
his comrade Avas called to a chair. On this occasion the first impulse of The- 
nard Avas one Avhich sprang from his heart. " When I once felt assured of 
success," he said, " I immediately set out for Louptiere, full of the joy Avhich 



MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 379 

I Blioukl communicate to my mother. To crown my good fortune, I carried 
with me a book which she had ayked me for : The Imitation of Jesus Christ, 
in hirge letters, such as she coukl read without spectack>s. When this copy, 
so rarely to be met with, fell into my hands, I had regarded it as the happiest 
of my discoveries." At the maternal fireside, the simple habits of his child- 
hood were resumed and old associations cordially refreshed. Here he again 
listened to the tender counsels of his mother, who, at the moment of parting, 
said to him : " It is noAV time for you to marry." 

This admonition fell on no unwilling ears. From the time when he first 
received the patronage of Vauquelin, Thenard had formed the acquaintance 
of a young chemist, named Humblot, to whom birth and fortune had 
opened a path as smooth as his own was rugged. In order to sustain the 
courage of Thenard, Humblot had often cited to him the instance of his own 
father-in-law, who, at first simply a laborer in a convent garden, had contrived 
to evince his talent as a painter, and by the opportune development of other 
talents in the service of his country during the Revolution, had achieved for 
himself both distinction and fortune ; so that it was said of him by a great 
man, whose confidence he had won : " Conte is capable of creating the arts 
of France in the midst of the deserts of Arabia." Received into the intimacy 
of this family, Thenard, whose origin and mediocrity of fortune were well 
known to them, met with warm sympathy in all his successes ; yet was it left 
to the sagacity of Madame Humblot to divine, which as a daughter of Conte 
she was well qualified to do, that he was silently waiting for some still greater 
success in order to acquire the boldness to ask for her daughter — whom Thenard 
confessed to be for him only too fair and too rich. This obstacle not proving 
insurmountable, our savant married ; and as he was a man Avho ordered afiairs 
wit-ii judgment, and knew how to enter into the details of practical life, he 
began from that time to build up the large fortune in which were blended the 
results of his labor, his alliance, and his skilful management. 

The constantly increasing success of his lectures had become, with Thenard, 
the most sensitive test of his self-love. At each of them he seemed to put 
forth all the ardor of a general on the battle-field ; leaving nothing unprovided 
for, and making but a limited number of experiments, he required them to be 
exact and striking, and to be presented at the precise moment. The slightest 
inadvertence or misapprehension on the part of his assistants drew upon them 
sharp reproofs, and they must have had a hard time of it but for the prompt 
return of good nature and the acknowledgments which followed. " In a lec- 
ture-room," insisted Thenard, " it is the students alone who have a right to 
be considered ; professor, assistants, laboratory, ought all to be sacrificed to 
them.". Before an auditory which had witnessed one of his outbursts, he 
soothe^l the not unreasonable susceptibility of him he had maltreated by saying, 
"Fourcroy has often done the like to me ! It produces promptness of appre- 
hension." 

It was this same promptness of apprehension which supplied Thenard with 
one of those penetrating insights which open new horizons to science. The 
discovery of oxygenated water is recounted by himself in the following terms : 
" In 1818 I was delivering my first lecture on the salts at the Sorbonne : ' in 
order that the metals should unite with acids, I was saying it is neces- 
sary that they should be oxydized, and that they should be so only to a certain 
point ; when the quantity of oxygen is too great, the oxide loses a part of its 
afiinity.' As an example I was about to cite the deutoxide of barium, when 
the thought suddenly crossed my mind that the experiment had not been 
made. As soon as I re-entered the laboratory I called for oxygenated barytes ; 
I diluted chlorhydric acid with ice, adding it in such a manner as to have a 
liquid at zero. I hydrogenized the barytes and reduced it to the state of 
paste. I then made the mixture ; when, to my great surprise, the barytes 



380 MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 

dissolved witliout sensible efFervescencc. So anomalous a fact could not fail 
to arrest attention. When I returned for my following lecture, I perceived 
small globules attached to the sides of the vessel, like those -which arc seen in 
a glass filled Avilh champagne wine ; bubbles of gas were escaping from the 
liquid, though quite slowly. I then took a tube closed with the lamp at one 
of its extremities, and, pouring in some of the liquid, heated it. The bubbles 
were now rapidly disengaged and gas accumulated in the part of the tube 
which remained free ; I introduced a match and it l^indled — there was oxygen 
present. The hour for my lecture had arrived and I went through with it, but 
the preoccupation of my mind must have been deplorably apparent." 

Thenard had f illeu on the traces of a new fact ; at first he Avas disposed to 
believe that he had made the discovery of suroxygenated acids, but he soon 
satisfied himself that these acids had no existence. Was it, then, water itself, 
simple water, which was oxygenized 1 The idea had scarcely entered his 
mind before it Avas proved by experiment, and oxygenated water was thus 
added to the acquisitions of chemistry. 

A new and suggestive fact had been reached by Thenard, the report of 
which soon spread through scientific Europe. Foreign chemists came to assist 
in the experiments, and the arrival of Bcrzelius, at this time, in the French 
capital, seemed appropriately to welcome the recent discovery. Calling with- 
out form on Thenard, the Scandinavian philosopher saw him for the first time ; 
yet these eminent men at once recognize each other, and find themselves, as if 
in virtue of the law of affinities, converted on the instant into old friends. "T 
come," said Berzelius, " to gather ideas in the domain of French chemistry, 
which you have so much aggrandized and enriched. You will, of course, let me 
seethe oxygenated water." The conversation turned on Gay Lussac and his 
iodine, the new element which that chemist had so distinctly identified ; as 
Avcll as on his cyanogen, a compound substance which affects, in its combina- 
tions, all the characters of simple bodies. " We must not forget," said The- 
nard, " the admirable theory of definite proportions which we owe to you, and 
which, revealing the immutable laws by which bodies combine, has become the 
torch of chemistry." " I admit," rejoined Berzelius, " that I have been fortu- 
nate. Do yoir know," he added, " that your recent labors and those of your 
friend liaAx given Davy occasion to say, ' Thenard and Gay Lussac apart are 
stronger than Thenard and Gay Lussac united? ' " From this conference The- 
nard proceeded directly to the Sorbonne, and Avas conducting his lecture Avith 
his usual facility, Avhen his eyes casually Avandered to a corner of the apart- 
ment, and he immediately shoAved signs of discomposure. The audience, in 
turn, became uneasy, but Thenard, promptly recovering himself, exclaims : 
" Gentlemen, you have a right to know the cause of my embarrassment ^^ and, 
pointing to a remote part of the amphitheatre, " Gentlemen, there is Berzelius." 
At once the crowd rises, and a respectful circle surrounds the illustrious 
stranger Avith long and rapturous applause. MoA^ed by such proofs of enthu- 
siasm, and forgetting his usual phlegm, the SAvede exclaims, as he is borne 
unresistingly to a seat near the chair : " With such pupils it is impossible to 
be other than a good professor." He afterAvards obscrAxd to Thenard, " I had 
promised myself to A'erify, in entire secrecy, Avhether all that fame had taught 
me respecting your talents as a professor Avere exact. I find it even below 
your real merit." 

Thenard Avas noAv iuA'estigating the properties of oxygenated Avater. One 
of them is extremely singular ; Berzelius named it the catalytic force. Many 
bodies decompose oxygenated AvaterAvithout undergoing any chemical alteration, 
without seeming to act otherAvise than simply by their presence. The phe- 
nomenon, therefore, depends not on the ordinary affinities ; nor yet on electricity, 



MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 381 

so far at least as was apparent, for the most suLtle examination had faih;cl to 
discover the least sign of electrical action.* 

Is it due, then, to a new force'? So Thenard thought and said. The catalytic 
force, he believed, would furnish the theoretical bond of a whole class of facts, 
some of which were already known. As the fear of mistake is always associ- 
ated, in a practiced mind, with the pleasure of discovery, he called to his aid the 
counsels of a friend, a bold and sagacious chemist ; and the views of Dulong, 
after mature consideration, coinciding with his own, he might with confidence 
leave his conclusions to the judgment of after times. 

Thenard, associated in 1810, as professor at the Polytechnic School, with 
the eminent men who shed so bright a lustre on that model institution, thoroughly 
identified himself with its progress and its benefits; each generation of pupils 
which he instructed seemed to affoi'd him a new pledge of the perpetuity of his 
fame. In addition to this appointment, he received in 1814 that of member 
of the Committee of Consultation for Manufactures; in 1815, he became a 
member of the Legion of Honor; in 1821, Dean of the Faculty of Sciences; in 
1825, he was created Baron by Charles X. Learning that he was about to 
receive tliis latter distinction, he demanded, with visible emotion, "Why is not 
Gay Lnssac also named? He deserves it at least as much as I do." 

At the moment he forgot, perhaps, that he had once been a courtier, and a 
skilful one : it had been at the promptings, however, of a kind heart. Few 
bad admired more than he those superb paintings in the cupola of the Pantheon, 
in which the pencil of Gros has so admirably imbodied the legends of our 
national history. The enthusiasm of his cotemporaries seemed to guarantee to 
the artist the admiration of ages to come, when, at the expiration of only a few 
monlhs, stains of different shapes and colors made their appearance on the 
surface of the nave, and it became evident that, from moisture having pene- 
trated the stones, this great work of genius was hastening to decay. The 
mortification of Gros could be consoled neither by the public sympathy nor the real 
concern of the sovereign, who saw with regret the threatened ruin of a moniiment, 
in which a conspicuous place had been allotted to himself. Thenard, between 
whom and Gros there existed a sincere friendship, no sooner heard of the 
c»tastrophe than he commenced in secret a series of experiments, by which he 
.was led to the discovery of a means of rendering the most porous stones imper- 
meable to moisture. Once sure of the result, he repaired to the cabinet of the 
artist and inquired whether he Avould repaint the cupola if satisfied that the 
colors would stand. "A^vay with you," roughly replied Gros, "and let me 
hear no more about it." Fourcroy, it will be remembered, had, in the words 
of Thenard, often done the like to him, so he tranqviilly withdrew to his labor- 
atory to await the coming of Gros. This Avas not long deferred; the door 
presently opened and the artist inquired, in a voice of anxious emotion, if what 
had been spoken of wei'e praciicable. That evening Thenard was summoned 
to the Tuilleries, his method explained to the satisfaction of the royal personage, 
Darcet at his own request was united with him, and he was dismissed with the 
promise of a grateful requital. 

* See on this subject a very remarkable note of M. Becqnerel, Annalcs de Chimic et de 
Ptiysifjue, t. XXVIII, p. 19, (IS'^-J), entitled: "On the electro-dynamic effects i)roduced 
during the decomposition of oxygenated water by different bodies." The following is an ex- 
tract: "M. Thenard discovered that the metals, with the exception of iron, tin, antimony, 
and tellurium, tend to decompose oxygenated water ; that those which are most oxidizable 
become oxidized, while those which are not so preserve their metallic lusturc. It has been 
observed by M. Becquercl, that during the decomposition of oxygenated water by the sponge 
of platinum, gold, &c., electrical effecls are produced similar to those which would take place 
if those bodies were chemically attacked by the oxygenated water. He inferred that the de- 
composition and the chemical action proceed from the same cause; a conclusion which 
strongly interested M. Thenard." [See on this subject the prize essay from the Holland 
Academj' of Sciences, published in the present Smithsonian report. ] 



382 MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENAED. 

That requital our savant was convinced lie should never solicit ; but who 
can count upon anything ? One day, at the exit of the students from his lec- 
ture, the door is found to be guarded by a force of the police, Avhose suspicions 
involve the whole assemblage. Certain fugitives from a popular tumult 
which had just been quelled had found means to make their way into tlie hall, 
and confound themselves among the audience. In the clamor which results 
the professor is drawn to the spot ; the students are at once quiet, but the po- 
lice refuse to surrender the prisoners. The most that he can obtain is, that 
those found with notes shall be liberated as students, and others are enlarged 
on satisfactorily answering some scientific interrogatory which he propounds 
to them. Fifty, however, of the more nnlucky are conducted to prison. At 
seeing them led away, the heart of Thenard is touched ; he hastens to the 
minister of the interior, but is badly received ; to the prefect of police, with no 
better success. Suddenly a thought crosses him : " They promised me so much 
on account of the cupola !" Immediately his steps arc turned to the Tuilleries, 
and Avith difficulty obtaining an audience, he states the case respectfully but 
wdrmly ; they are his cherislied pupils, his children ; he will be responsible for 
them. "Yes," replies the king, with a smile, "but those who are ignorant of 
chemistry have been put in prison. See my minister, however ; the case has 
not been provided for." At midnight the gates of the prison open before 
Thenard. "Gentlemen," he cries, "you are at liberty ;" then pausing a mo- 
ment on the threshold, he adds, " On one condition, however — that you will 
learn chemistry." 

Appointed counsellor of the University in 1830, "Thenard," says M. Girar- 
din, " not only rendered to science the great services expected of him, but 
proved himself an admirable man of business. Severe against abuses and neg- 
ligence, no one lent himself with more lavish facility to all true reforms. 
Much as he had to be proud of in this world, I have never known him prouder 
and liappier about anything than the right conduct of the state colleges." For 
four years he occupied a seat in the Chamber of Deputies, and as he had ac- 
cepted it Avith reluctance, so he left it without regret, saying, as he repaired to 
the scene of rejoicing for the election of his successor, " I am going to assist in 
celebrating the restoration of my own liberty." His declaration that " he did 
not meddle Avith anything but what he thoroughly understood," may be helcfc 
to have been the rule of his public life. When a member of the higher cham- 
ber he moved a revision of the laAvs of instruction, a reimpression of the works 
of Laplace, and the national protection of the widows of learned men ; he gave 
also a profound consideration to some of the questions relating to public indus- 
try. The spirit of party exercised no dominion over him. Swayed by reason, 
he set no value on administrative parade, preferring to all other authority that 
which he exercised as an undoubted master in the domain of science. 

During an Academic career of forty-seven years, he constantly yielded a zeal- 
ous support to whatever views or undertakings appeared to envelope^ a germ 
of progress, and there was scarcely one of his colleagues who Avas not 
indebted to him for the suffrage of an applauding voice. It Avas natural 
that he should cherish a profound regard for the Academy Avhere his 
fame, his services, and, above all, his habits of conciliation, assured the 
highest authority to all his expressions of opinion. In private life he cheer- 
fully accepted the obligations of his eminent scientific position, and his house, 
open to merit of every description, Avas the abode of amenity and grace. A 
certain vestige of its rustic origin, a simplicity Avhich recalled the character of 
our central populations, gave to this amiable household only a new and pecu- 
liar charm. In person Thenard Avas largo and Angorous, bearing erect a head 
covered Avith a redundance of black hair, Avith features Avell marked and 
animated by an eye of lively intelligence. It Avas impossible not to recognize 
in him one of those orjxanizations on Avhich nature has lavished all the elements 



MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. 383 

of a complete existence. That attacliments, both of a public and private 
nature, should gather about one thus cont^titutcd, was inevitable ; complaisant 
and just, to him all was easy and simple ; neither reproach nor ill-Avill ever 
troubled a heart which, more than once, was agitated by the expressions of 
grateful acknowledgment. 

During his lectures at the Polytechnic School, it happened, on one occasion, 
that something essential to the demonstration was wanting. Thenard impa- 
tiently calls for it, and while the attendant' runs to seek it, lays his hand, as 
if to gain time, on a glass, and carries it, without examination, to his lips 
Having swallowed two mouthfuls, he replaces it, and with entire self-posses- 
sion observes, "Gentlemen, I have poisoned myself ; what I have drunk is 
corrosive sublimate, and the remedy is the white of eggs ; bring me some." 
The students, to whom his first words had conveyed an electric shudder, pre- 
cipitate themselves through doors and windows, ransack the neighboring stores 
and kitchens, and, as each one brings his contribution, soon an immense heap 
of eggs rises before the professor. In the mean time, one of the students has 
flown to the Faculty of Medicine, and, interrupting an examination, exclaims, 
" Quick, a physician ! Thenard has poisoned himself at the school in delivering 
a lecture." Dupuytren rises, seizes a cabriolet on his passage, and rushes 
with breathless haste to the scene of the accident. But, already, thanks to 
the albumen, the life of Thenard was saved. Dupuytren, however, insists on 
the use of a probe, in order to be sure that none of the corrosive substance is 
absorbed by the stomach. An inflammation of the organ is thereby produced, 
and Thenard, saved from the poison, is put in danger by the remedy. 

During his illness, the students of all the schools manifested the most poig- 
nant anxiety ; with aff"ectionate zeal they watched around his house night and 
day, in order to avert every possible cause. of disturbance, and listened in un- 
easy silence for tidings from the interior. Every morning exact bulletins were 
posted in all the principal establishments, without its being known who were 
the authors. When Thcnatd reappeared in his chair at the Sorbonne, the de- 
light manifested was proportionally great. Every one sprang to his feet with- 
out seeming to know in what way to express his joy, and the professor for 
once confessed himself overwhelmed by a torrent of profound and grateful 
emotions. 

It might now have seemed that long years of happiness were in reserve for 
Thenard, but his fortitude was destined to terrible trials. By a succession of 
bereavements he lost almost all which could sooth the decline of life : first, his 
mother-in-law, the early friend who had propitiated his happiness ; then the 
devoted wife who had been its chief dispenser, the latter escaping, by her 
sudden removal, the pain of seeing their last child expire in the bloom of youth ; 
a brother, a sister, and a nephew followed. When one only and tenderly be- 
loved son remained, the afflicted fiither exclaimed: " I dare no longer believe 
in his existence." 

The counterpoise which he opposed to these often renewed sorrows was the 
suggestion of a benign and wise compassion ; the foundation of the Socufij of 
the friends of Science seemed an inspiration from his memories of the past. 
After bequeathing it a considerable legacy, and associating with it all hia 
friends, Thenard expired June 21, 18.17, showing by his latest words that his 
solicitude still dwelt upon the cherished " Society." " I trust," he said, "that 
I have formed a union which nothing Avill ever break. I liope that those who 
cultivate the sciences, those who are occupied with their application, and even 
those who only recognize their value, will continue united for their protection." 
Let the orphan, the widow, the indigent aspirant, salute with grateful accents 
the tomb of the excellent man whose last thoughts were for them. 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE 6E0FFR0Y SAINT IIILAIRE. 



BY M. DE QUATREFAGES. > 



'From the Bullftinof ^he Imperial Society of Acclimatatiou. — Translated for the Smithsonian 

Institution. ] 

Isidore GcoB'roj Saint Ililaire was bom tlac IGth December, 1805 ; and on 
tbe lOtli November, 1861, be sank under an iUness wbose insidious progress 
bad set at naugbt all tbe efforts of scientific skill and devoted affection, before 
be bad completed bis fifty-sixtb year. Wbat tbis sbort life bad been bas 
already been related by tbosc wbose eloquence was beigbtencd by grief and 
friendsbip, and I bave myself said a few words on tbis subject. Wbat tbe man 
was bas tlius been declared, but tbe appreciation of tbe tavant required a little 
more development. It is for tbis reason tbat I return to tbe tbeme. I wisb to 
sketcb, at least, tbe principal features of tbat scientific existence wbicb was cut 
sbort at tbe moment of bearing its finest fruits. 

A cbild of tbe museum, Isidore Grcoffroy took, as we may say, bis first steps in 
tbat collection founded by bis illustrious fatber, in tbose galleries wbicb bad 
grown, as if by magic, under tbe united efforts of tbe Brogniarts, tbe Cuviers, 
tbe GcofFroys, tbe Jussieus, tbe Lamarcks. Tbis daily spectacle would bave 
inspired even an ordinary mind: judge, tben, of its effect on an intelligence of 
early tbougbtfulness. To tbis influence add tbat of family traditions* — tbe 
example and inspiration of a fatber like Etienn<e Geoffrey, tbe lessons of a 
motber, wbose firm and affectionate beart tbe most bitter trials bave never 
sbaken, and wbose elevated judgment bas always been recognized by some of 
tbe greatest minds of our timet — and it will be seen tbat few men bave entered 
on tbeir intellectual career under more favorable auspices. 

Isidore Geoffrey profited by tbese gifts of Heaven. He was but nineteen, 
wben, in 1824, be made bis debut as a zoologist, by tbe publication of a memoir 
on a new species of American bat, {Nyctinomiis Braziliensis.) He afterwards 
returned at different times to tbis group, wbicb bad first been diseutanglcd by 
Etienne Geoffrey, and wbicb for tbat very reason attracted bis special attention; 
but in 1826, at tbe age of 21, be laid aside for a time tbese descriptive labors, to 
turn to a subject mucb less restricted, and wbicb at once revealed tbe secret of 
studies of deep and long continued interest. He publisbed in tbe Dictlonnaire 
Classique cVHistoire Natiirellc, and soon afterwards in tbe form of a volume. 
General Considerations on tlic Class of Mammifers. Let us dwell a moment on 
tbis early Avork, tbe first in wbicb Isidore Geoffrey presented a grand general 
view of facts and ideas. We sball find in it almost all tbe germs wbicb were 
to obtain a ricb development in bis subsequent works. 

* One of the branches of the Gcoffroy family gave, in the 18th century, three members to 
the Academy of Sciences. 

t Madame Geofifroy Saint Hilaire, (Paulino Anois) belongs to a family of the magistracy, 
■which still adheres to its old traditions. Her father, M. Brieve de Mondetour, was successively 
Receiver-general des Economats under Louis XVI, Muirc of the 2d arrondisscment of Paris, 
and deputy of the corps legislatif, under the Empire. In all these situations, he knew how to 
merit the esteem of the sovereigns and the respect of the public. In 1804, Mademoisello 
Briere de Mondetour married Etienne Geoft'roy, who was already celebrated. She survives 
her husband, the twin daughters, and the son, who were the fruit of this union. 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 385 

In the description of species, our young naturalist had shown that he could 
discern and describe Avith exactness and clearness the most minute characteristic 
traits. These qualities, so necessary to the zoologist, arc seen in the work of 
which we speak. Already he had shown a sort of innate tendency to ascend 
from the details to the whole, to connect isolated facts with general principles. 
For example, in speaking of the- caudal development of mammalia, the author 
does not content himself with noting the very considerable variations presented 
by tlie number of vertebra? which compose it. He aims to take account of them, 
and ibr this purpose ascends to the pheuomenaof their first formation. He reminds 
us that in the human embryo, the coccyx, until the end of the sccoikI month, 
is quite as long as the tail of the dog of similar age. He agrees with M. Serres 
in attributing to a retreat about the upper pai-t of the spinal marrow, the arrest 
of development which in the human species intercepted the appendage so prom- 
inently developed in the dog. He compares these facts with those presented 
by the tadpoles of the frog and the toad, and concludes by saying: "Thus the 
mammal is metamorphosed like the batrachiau, and all the changes which 
surprise us in the latter are not even anomalies ; they take place equally in the 
mammal, and in man himself; and are the general phenomena of embryogeny." 
All the- anatomical and desci-iptive part of the Avork is executed in the same 
spirit. , 

The hairy coating of mammalia, the variations of color that distinguish races, 
the influence of domestication on external chai-acters, the result of the crossing 
of species and races, likewise conduct Isidore Geoffroy to general considera- 
tions, the greater part of which had escaped his predecessors. In several 
passages we see the dawn, more or less advanced, of a great number of ideas 
which, ripened by reflection and continued study, served as the basis of the 
great Avork of Avhich Ave shall speak hereafter. 

An order of considerations Avhich occupies an important place in this work, 
and wliieh we cannot pass Avithout notice, is that Avhich embraces zoological 
geography. From the philosophic point of A'ieAv Avhcre the son of Etieune 
Geofl^roy had placed himself at twenty-one, the grandeur and truthfulness of 
the conceptions of ButTon on this subject could not escape him. We can see 
that he has been deeply impressed Avith them ; that already he has been seeking 
to A'erify them by ficts; and that if he undertakes the defence of his illus- 
trious predecessor, it is Avith a full knoAvledge of the subject. This enlight- 
ened conviction, which Isidore Geoffroy shared Avith his father, is e\'inccd in 
many of his other Avritings. If the unjust prejudices inspired by the Linna^an 
doctrines, imperfectly understood, have been partly dissipated ; if, in our day, 
naturalists admit Buffon to be still greater as a savant than as a writer, it is 
certainly in great part due to the efforts of these tAvo peneti-ating minds, so 
well formed to comprehend, develop, and inculcate a right appreciation of 
Avhat had too long been misunderstood in the genius of their predecessor. 

The complete list of the works of Isidore Geoffroy, already published in 
this bulletin, renders it unnecessary for us to enumerate here several treatises 
of dilFerent kinds Avhich succeeded each other rapidly until 1832. We shall 
merely point out the tendency, more and more marked in their author, to sub- 
ordinate facts of detail to complete vicAvs, and to attach himself to general 
and philosophic zoology, such as had been comprehended, though from dif- 
ferent points of vicAv, by Buffon, Lamarck, and Etieune Geoffroy. These 
prevailing ideas were manifested officially,, as we may say, in a course of 
lectures given at the Athenaeum in 1830, Avhich turned entirely on the funda- 
mental relations of the animal species among themselves and to the external 
Avorld. By this course of lessons, which had no precedent in public instruc- 
tion, Isidore Geoffroy began to assume his special place in the phalanx of 
those Avho foUoAved the same banner with himself, and was not long in placing 
himself in their foremost rank. Tavo years later appeared the first volume of 
25 



386 MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 

The General and Particular History of the Anomalies of Organization, (1832.) 
This time it was no longer a simple memoir, nor a resume enlightened by new 
idea? ; but a Avork sufficiently new in substance and in form to found, at once, 
a whole branch of natural science. 

It is well known how much the anomalies of organization, designated by . 
the name of jnonstrositics, have, at all times, struck the imagination of the 
vulgar and excited the curiosity of the learned. Long regarded as 2^rodigi('s,* 
they became afterwards freaks or errors of nature. They were viev/ed as 
proofs that the laws governing the formation of living beings might suffer 
exceptions and infractions. Later, it was undcystood that physiology was 
deeply interested in the study of these supposed abnormal beings. But it had 
required the great progress accomplished during the first years of the present 
century in anatomy and embryogcny, to demonstrate the extent of the services 
which the study of monsters was to render. Etienne Geoffroy had often in- 
sisted on this. Resting partly on the doctrines of his predecessors, but espe- 
cially strong in his own, he had been the first seriously to take account of the 
perfectly natural conditions under which these alterations are produced. Isidore 
G-eoffroy followed his father in this track. As he says himself, he proposed 
to make anomalies better known, to trace their characters, their mode of pro- 
duction, their relations, their influence, and thus to lead'to the more perfect 
knowledge of the normal order.t 

A single fact will show how completely this multiplex aim of the author has 
been accomplished. These beings, so various, so complex, which had been 
considered the product of as many special infractions of general rules, have 
conformed to all the exigencies of the classification invented for normal beings, 
Isidore Geoffroy has divided the slightest deformities as well as the greatest 
monstrosities, those characterized by excessive complication, as well as those 
resulting from defective parts, into classes, ordtrs, families, and genera, as had 
been done with the mammals or the birds. And this classification has re- 
mained unchanged. Some new genera have been added to it, some new species 
described, but all have fitted naturally iiito the framework so skilfully traced 
out by tho author between his twenty-sixth and thirtieth ycar.| 

The importance of this v/ork was immediately understood. The first vol- 
ume, which appeared in 1832, was a guarantee of those which were to follow. 
This consideration decided the Academy, and on the 15th April, 1833, Isidore 
Geoffroy, at the age of twenty-seven, took his seat beside his father in the 
section of zoology § 

The History of Anomalies was completed, and other labors and publications 
succeeded. Of these we can notice only a few. 

We must first point out the views which Isidore Geoffroy frequently put 
forth relative to classification. It is well known what importance has justly 
been attached, since the time of Linnaeus, to the forms for the arrangement, in 
an order determined beforehand, of the numerous beings with which naturalists 

*The Greek and Roman laws condemned to death every child affected with certain organic 
deviations. In the middle ages it was nearly the same ; and even in the 17th century Riolan 
thought himscll' very bold, and really was so, in maintaining that they need not bo put to 
death ; that it was enough to shut ihom up. 

\ Analytical Notice of the Zoological, Anatomical and Physiological Labors of M. Isidore 
Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, 1833. 

t The third voliune of the History of Anomalies appeared in 1833. 

6 M. Delaunay has preserved the remembrance of an incident which marked this election. 
Our confrdro has recalled, in happy terms, that Mr. Gay Lussac, president of the session, af'.er 
having counted the votes, yielded the chair to Etienne Geoffroy, then vice-president, in order 
to give him the happiness of verifying the triumph of his son himself and proclaiming his 
election. M. Delaunay has well depicted the emotion of the Academy in witnessing tho 
verification of the vote. — {Funeral of M. Isidore Geoffroy: Discourse of 31. Delaunay in the 
name of tho Faculty of Sciences. ) 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 387 

occupy themselves. "We know that these groupings, at first purely methodic, 
\ii^'Q,Am(.i,sijstcmatic in the hands of Jussieu for vegetables, and of Cuvier for 
animals. But the latter had deeply felt how mcomplcte are our classifications 
when we wish to represent the multiplied connexions of living beings.* Isidore 
Geoffrey had also felt the same, and he tried at least to diminish the imper- 
fections. 

Linear claasijications, however arranged, never place a being except between 
two others, that which precedes and that which follows it. Thus they repre- 
sent only dirc'-t ojfinities ; they are powerless to represent, even impe^'fectly, 
collateral ajjlnities or zoological analogies. Now the latter have, in a general 
view, an importance which must naturally have attracted the special attention 
of our author. He soon perceived, like* some of his predecessors, that the 
primary zoological groups may be divided into secondary groups, composed of 
species which correspond to each other, as it were, term by term. He thought, 
with reason, that these series ought to be represented, and he Avas thus led to 
that i-iarallellic classification which he has applied especially to the mammifers. 
However, Isidore Geoffrey, no more than Cuvier, regarded his classification 
as presenting all the relations of beings with each other. He only saw in it a 
less imperfect representation of what exists. He has several times expressed 
himself very clearly on this point, regretting to see his ideas presented in a 
manner too absolute, by some pupils who had not half miderstood them. Here, 
as elsewhere, the master was more cautious than his disciples. 

We can only name- the volume entitled Essays on General Zoology, (1845.) 
It is less a book than a collection of memoirs on distinct subjects, connected 
only by the common thought indicated by the title. We shall refer to some 
of them hereafter. 

To construct a general system of zoology was, in fact, the constant object of 
Isidore Geoffroy. It betrayed itself everywhere, and even his public instruc- 
tion served to manifest it. At the museum, and still more at the Sorbonne, 
several of his special courses of lectures were partly devoted to the exposition 
of ideas connected with this purpose, which never quitted him, even v/hen he 
seemed farthest from it. • 

But these ideas, as they ripened by incessant study, cxpahded more and 
more. He perceived that in general questions, living and organized beings 
cannot be isolated. " Even at the limits of the animal kingdom, the application 
of the method remains incomplete, the demonstrations for the most part unfin 
ishcd, the synthesis only partial. "t Thus he v/as led insensibly, and, as it 
were, in spite of himself, to publish, not a, general zoology, but a General Nat- 
ural History c/f the Organic Kingdom.^. 

The first volume of this book, which was to be the epitome of the labors of 
a whole life, appeared in 1854; the second in 1859. The first half of the 
third volume vv-as published in 1860. This is all that Isidore Geoffroy has 
been able himself to give to the public. What pious hands have collected will, 
perhaps, complete this volume and the second part of the work ; the rest io 
forever lost.| 

It is especially for this reason that the premature death of Isidore Geoffroy 

*The formal declarations inserted by Cuvier in one of his last works on the essential dis- 
tinctions between the clascifications and the method, has too often been forgotten. — {General 
History of Fishes, by MM. Cuvier and Valenciennes. — (Introduction fiy Cuvier.) 

t General Natural History of the Organic Kingdoms, preface. 

+This first part extends from Chapter VIU to Chapter XI, inclusive. Besides, the family 
have found four sheets, entirely corrected and ready for the press ; two partially corrected ; 
three sheets in the first draught, and a manuscript reaching to the end of Chapter XIX. \Vc 
may then expect that the third volume will be completed, and that there will, perhaps, only 
be wantingthe definitive conclusion which an author .sometimes reserves till the last moment, 
till he has reviewed and reconsidered his work. Hut for the latter parts, the most original of 
this great work, neither notes nor fragments could bo discovered. All was in the bead of the 
author. 



388 MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 

is a real misfortune to science. During twenty -six years tliis man, of the first 
order of mind, had in view, in all his works of detail, in all his lectlires, the 
development of a class of ideas of the highest , importance. We have said 
already, and repeat here, who shall take iip the work ? And even though 
some one should step forward to replace him, can it be hoped that his successor 
will lay hold of this immense problem with the materials and ability which 
Isidore Geoifroy had at his command ? 

As if to increase- and justify our regrets, the author places at the head of the 
first volume an analytic programme of what his book was to be. He divided 
it into six portions, and we have seen that the second part, at most, will appear. 
Two-thirds of the work will be forever known to us only by this epitome, the 
whole of which, representing at least five or six volumes, hardly occupies three 
pages. 

Unfinished, or rather only commenced as it is, the General Natural History 
of tlie Organic Ulngdoms has rendered essential services. Isidore Geoffroy 
had time to pronounce on some questions Avhich touch on the very foundations 
of biological sciences, and it is of importance that his judgment on the greater 
part of them should be kno\tn. Heir of Buffon, Lamarck, and of Etienne 
Geoffroy, having constantly held aloft the banner of the philosophic school, no 
one can less be suspected than he of having sacrificed to considerations foreign 
to science. His opinions are the most formal condemnation of certain very 
ancient doctrines, Avhich some have lately sought to revive in the name of science 
and philosophy. 

Such, for example, is that which puts in doubt the reality of species, by 
admitting that plants and animals may vary indefinitely, and bring forth 
series of individuals so distinct as not to be confounded. No one can pronounce 
against it more clearly than our author. He does more. He shows that in spite 
of theoretical ideas, all serious naturalists have arrived at the same conclusion 
on this question, as soon as they abandon the vague ground of hypothesis to 
place themselves on that of facts. He has said, and he could say with reason, 
that in spite of the profound difference of their general doctrines, Lamarck 
and Cuviei'- agreed on this fundamental question. Both, in this, contradicted 
some of their abstract principles ; each had to take some steps towards the 
truth in an inverse direction. The one had to abandon the theory of indefinite 
variability; the other, that of absolute fixity. Thus they met in the belief 
which was that of the better years of Bufibn, that of Isidore Geofiroy : the belief 
in the limited variability of species, the result of which is, that the forms and 
certain functions may sometimes be modified within very extended limits, while 
the essence of the being remains unaltered. 

In Buffon, no more than in GeofProy, was this belief- the result of mere 
hypothetical views ; in both it was the result of a deep" study of facts. The 
former, before reaching it, had passed through the extreme doctrines indicated 
above ; the latter, enlightened by this example, and taught by what he had 
under his eyes in the menagerie of the museum, saw the truth from the first, 
and supported it by new proofs. 

Man could not escape the study of the savant who embraced the whole of 
the animated creation. He was a prominent object of the researches and medi- 
tations of Isidore Geoffroy. As early as 1842, in a short article of the Dic- 
tionnaire Universel des Sciences Naturellcs, the author rejected the views gen- 
erally adopted on the authority of Blumenbach and Cuvier, as to the subject of 
the relation between man and the lower animals. He insisted that the order 
of bimana should be struck out, as removing us too far from the monkeys, if we 
see in man only the material being ; and bringing us too near them if we regard 
the whole of human nature. At a later period, in his lectures,* and in his 

* Lessons on Anthropology, given at the Faculty of Science, and summed up hy M. De- 
Yaille, ld5G. 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT IIILAIEE. 6Qd 

General Natural History, he repeated the same criticism, and coutcnded strongly 
for the admission of the human Idngdom, first proposed by a Frenchman, the 
Marquis de BerbenQois,* and since adopted by a number of eminent men in 
Germany and France. ■■ 

Is this kingdom, like the others, divided into groups distinct and, to a certain 
degree, independent of each other? Does it contain a great number of species 
which may be compared to the animal and vegetable species, or else does it 
include but one, namely, man ?t We know that this question is still agitated, 
and even Avith redoubled ardor. The answer of Isidore Geoffrey is that of 
Buffon, Cuvier, Etienne Geoffrey Saint Ililaire, Miiller, Humboldt, and others. 
He pronounces in favor of the unity of the human species.^: 

The General Natural Hi story of the Organic Kingdoms stops at the funda- 
mental principles of biology. The author proposed to present, in the third part, 
the general facts relatioe to organized hciugs, considered in themselves or in their 
organs ; the fourth was to be devoted to the general facts relative to the instincts, 
the habits, and, more generally, to the exterior vital manifestations of organized 
beings ; the fifth, to the general facts relative to the successive and present dis- 
tribi. ion of organized beings on the surface of .the terrestrial globe; in short, 
the sixth was to comprise the expositions of what the author calls natural phi- 
lowply. There he was to show the convergence of all science towards philo- 
sophic unity ; to explain his i-v'et^;,? 0?? the totality of organic nature; to show 
in the perpetual changes of the details and the permanence of general laws, 
whence results unity through variety ; the harmonic succession of individual 
and general phenomena, which '^xq^w.q.q, progressive harmony. \ Certainly no one 
can glance over this magnificent programme without a feeling of bitter regret. 
The History of the Organic Kingdoms will remain like one of those unfinished 
edifices Avhose factitious ruins sadden the mind by merely giving a glimpse of 
what the edifice would have been, by revealing the grandeur of the plan and 
the genius of him by whom it was conceived. 

There is an additional proof of the intellectual worth of Isidore Geoffrey. 
Profoundly devoted by sentiment and conviction to the doctrines of Etienne 
Geoffrey, he had to guard against a very natural inclination to tread too closely 
in the steps of this venerated guide. While he retained his filial regard and 
erected monuments of it|| to his father, no one can mistake him. Isidore 
Geoft^roy was like one of those eminent artists who, after having been a docile 
pupil of a great master, after having copied his manner, have created one 
in their turn; have conceived and executed works stamped with their own 

^Journal de Physique, 1816. M. de Barbencjois bad called it tbe moral khigdom. — (See 
General Natural History of the Organic Kingdoms.) 

t A poljgenistic belief bad sometimes been attributed to Etienne Geoffrey Saint Hilaire. 
In tbe work wbich be has devoted to the memory of bis father, Isidore Geoffrey has warmly 
protested against this assertion. — {Life, Labors, and Scientific Doctrine of Etienne Gcojfroy 
Saint Hdairc, 1S47.) 

X According to the lectures reported by M. Dclvaille, Isidore Geoffrey, in 1856, only pre- 
sented this doctrine as having in its favor the largest share of probability. To judge by the 
convcrsauons I bad with him less than a year before his death, liis convictions on this point 
had become much more decided. Unfortunately, ho did not reach this part of his work. 

§ Abstract of the Analytic Programme placed at the head of the first volume. 

II It is well known that the son of Buffon caused to be placed at the town of Jlontbert, 
where his father had worked, a column which bore this inscription : 

Excclsa turris, humills columna, 
Parenti suofilius Buffon. (1780.) 

Isidore Geoffrey conceived the nobler thought of raising to his father a more durable mon- 
ument by publishing the work entitled Life, Labors, and Scientific Doctrine of Etienne 
Geoff roy Saint Hilaire. The General Xatiual History of the Organic Kingdoms has as a 
dedication this verse of Dupoty : 

"MSme etait fait per moi, cct ovrage est le lien." (Eveu tliough done by me, this work is thine.) 



390 MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 

genius, and liave tlius taken rank Ibeside their teacliel-. We have pointed out 
what our author Avas as a man of pure science ; it Remains to show him under 
other relations. But here we may be more brief. His labors of practical 
science are more generally known, and what is important to point out is the 
filiation, too often unperceived, which unites them to the preceding. 

To every one who applies his mind to general questions of zoology, the do- 
mestic animals have an importance of the highest order. The extent and 
number of modifications presented by each of their species at once raise and 
resolve a croAvd of problems which touch on the most delicate questions of 
physiology, even on the history of man himself. Thus they early attracted 
the attention of Isidore Geoffrey. We find the proof of this in the article 
IS/lammifers, in the Dictionnairc Classiquc, which we mentioned above, and 
still more in the Essays on General Zoology. We find, amongst others, a 
memoir relative to ilia possibility of elucidating the natural history of man by 
the study of the domestic animals.* The author examines at first the analogy 
which exist between the variations of the domestic animals and those of the 
human races, and points out the close connexions presented by these two orders 
of facts. Then he shows how the detennination of the original country of a 
domestic species may throw light on the history of the migrations of a people. 
These ideas were to be afterwards extended and c.ompleted.f 

In the same volume we find a treatise on the domestication of auimals,| which 
was the first step in a path in which the author was so greatly to distinguish 
himself. This simple memoir furnished the basis of labors more and more mul- 
tiplied and important, and was transformed into an octavo volume of more than 
five hundred pages, entitled Domestication and Acclimatation of the Useful 
Animals. We know, also, that the ideas put forth by the author of this book 
have assumed a concrete form, and have been reduced to practice by the foun- 
dation of the Society of Acclimatation and the creation of the Garden of Accli- 
matation. These two establishments are truly the works of Isidore Geoffroy, 
and should rank amongst his best. If, in their beginning, they excited some 
distrust and some raillery, the first of these sunk imder the conciliating and pru- 
dent direction of the founder ; the second disap^ieared before established facts. 
Thus their progress was rapid, their future soon assured. Isidore Geoffrey thus 
left, beside his books, two institutions not less durable than his fame ; and if 
his loss excited uneasiness in the minds of those who had adopted his plans, it 
was soon dissipated by the choice of his successor.§ 

The results of the publications of Isidore Geoffroy on practical zoology, in 
the foundation of the two organizations which I have just named, deserve to be 
pointed out no less for their immediate and visible effects than for the influence 
which they have already exercised, and which must continue to be more and 
more felt. Hitherto the natural sciences, zoology especially, had been some- 
what despised by those who claim the title of practical men. They were 
merely considered as a species of knowledge calculated to amuse the mind, but 
without practical utility. For this cause they were rejected, as were chemistry 
and geology by the metallurgists and miners of the last century. Thanks to 
Isidore Geoffroy, and to the movement which he originated, these prejudices 
begin to be dissipated ; they may, perhaps, disappear slowly, but certainly it 
will be at length understood that zoology has also its applications ; that it 
ought to be to the breeding of animals, and to all that we procure from them, 



*This treatise, an abstract of whicli was communicated to the Society of Natm^al Sciences 
in 1835, had been read to the Academy in 1839. It figures in the Reports. 

t General Natural History of the Organic Kingdoms. 

t This work had appeared, but less complete, in the Encyclop6die Nouvelle. 

$ It is known that this successor is M. Drouyn de I'Huys. 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFKOY SAINT HILAIRE. 391 

tliat wliicli tlie pliysico-tTiemical sciences are to ojDeratious upon bnit(^ matter. 
It is tnxc, Buftou, and especially Daubenton, Lad acted upon this idea ; but, 
less fortunate tlian their siftccssor, and perhaps beginning too early, they left 
uo real impress on the minds of the people. It will irot be so Avith the work 
of Isidore Geoffrey ; and this is one of the special results of that life so well 
occupied. Here, as everywhere, pure science appears the mother of practical 
science — a mother fruitful in proportion as she is exact and elevated. 

In speaking of the works of Isidore Geoffroy, M. Milne Edwards has said : 
" All display a profound erudition and bear the stamp of a mind wise, elevated, 
and generalizing, and the purity and elegance of the style enhance their merits."* 
In speakiiig of his colleague's public instuictiou at the Faculty of Sciences, M. 
Delauuay expressed himself in a similar manner: "M. Isidore Geoffroy," says 
he, " was a most distinguished professor. He had an easy elocution, and ex- 
pressed himself with graceful simplicity, without any pretension to eloquence, 
and captivated the attention of his audience at once by the clearness of his 
explanations, and by the art with which he could group isolated facts around 
the principal ideas which he sought to illustrate."! 

These appreciations are just, and they characterize well the eminent man of 
whom ^ve speak. His lucid mind embraced at once his whole subject; conse- 
quently his ideas arose logically one from the other, and, as it were, co-ordered 
themselves. His words translated faithfully his thoughts, clearness of expression 
only reflecting clearness of conception. Thus his speech kindled at times, and 
he never wanted striking images and happy comparisons to render the most 
coiiiprehensive or profound ideas, becoming thus an orator without effort. His 
lectures were always as well attended as his woi-ks were Andely read. 

It was at the museum, in 1829, that Isidore Geoffroy, at the age of twenty- 
four, first aj)peared as a professor. He was then an assistant to his father, and 
took ornithology as the subject of his lessons. The following year he delivered, 
at the Athenceum, the remarkable course of lectures of which we have already 
spoken. Having been appointed, in 1837, assistant to his father at the Faculty 
of Sciences in Paris, he soon quitted this tepiporary chair to go to Bordeaux, 
with the title of dean, to organize the Faculty of Sciences created in that city, 
(1838.) But this task finished, he returned to Paris, and in 1840 Avas named 
inspector of the Academy, and charged with the duty of inspector general of 
the University. At the same time that he fulfilled these high functions, in 
which civil administration is so closely connected with the best interests of 
science, he replaced his father at the museum, the latter being struck Avith blind- 
ness, as had been Lamarck and Savigny before him. In short, in 1841, this 
position having been made permanent, the veteran of science yielded the place 
to the young soldier Avhom he had trained ; and Isidore Geoffroy received, during 
his father's life, the succession which, for a long time previously, he had in great 
measure administered.| 

In effect, from 1824, the youthful savant had discharged the duties of assistant 
naturalist at the Jardin des Plantes. In this office he had to superintend and 
direct not only the colleetions of mammals and birds, but also the menagerie, 
founded by Etienne Geoffroy, (1793.) He had deA'oted himself, heart and 
soul, to this double task; but he became, perhaps, still more eaiinest in it Avhen 
he Avas made the ofiicial chief of this very important part of the museum. All 
those Avho have seen him at Avork kuoAV Avith Avhat steady ardor he labored to 

* Funeral of M. Isidore Geoffroy Saint Hilaire. Discourse of M. Milne Edwards, president 
of the Academy of Sciences. 

t Funeral of 31. Isidore Geoffroy Saint Hilaire. Discourse of M. Dclaunay, in the name 
of the Faculty of Sciences. 

I In 1844 he became titular inspector general, and he exercised the functions up to the 
time when he. replaced M. de Blainville as professor of zoology at the Faculty of Sciences, 
(1850.) 



392 MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 

enrich these collections of dead and living animals. The galleries soon became 
too small to contain all that Isidore Geolfroy procured for them; sometimes by 
using the slender resources which the too scanty fiftids of the museum placed 
at his disposal ; sometimes by availing himself of the authority of the establish- 
ment and his own personal influence.* At a time when it was the fashion to 
find fxult with all that concerned the museum, objection was often made to the 
croicdcd condition of the cases, and the professor who had the administration of 
this portion of our riches was reproached for neglect. It was forgotten that 
this was the most striking proof of his exertions, for had he been less indus- 
trious, the localities sufficiently capacious for his predecessors would have sufiiced 
for him. 

What we have just said of the galleries applies equally to the menagerie. 
But could it be otherwise? The number of living specimens collected in the 
parks of the museum was tripled in twenty-five years, t while the disposable 
space remained almost the same. What minute and constant care did it not 
require to utilize this ground so parsimoniously granted to the first scientific 
menagerie ever formed ; to struggle against conditions often deplorable ; to meet 
expenses constantly increasing, even when the budget was restricted in conse- 
quence of political events. It was in the midst of such difficulties that Isidore 
Geoff"roy succeeded in developing the noble creation of his father, and in making 
it serve the advancement of pure as well as practical science. 

Some of the first acclimatations attempted in our age have been produced in 
this menagerie. I need only recall the Egyptian goose.| It is known that 
this fine species, brought to France by Etienne Geoftroy, and since then almost 
constantly reared in the museum, has furnished, for the first time, a race truly 
European, characterized by an increase of size and a change of color, but especi- 
ally by a delay of about four mouths in the time of laying its eggs — a delay 
which brings the mother and her young into harmony with the new climate to 
v/hich they are subjected. We may also mention, in passing, the yaks, three 
of which, arriving at the museum in 1854, have increased to a hgrd of more 
than twenty head, without the death of a single one, young or old. 

But let us dwell a little on the part which the menagerie, often considered 
as only fit to satiny a useless curiosity, has furnished to the scientific labor of 
Isidore Geoflfroy. This collection of living animals was to him a field of con- 
tinual experiment, and he owed to it the solution of some of the most delicate 
questions of physiology and of general zoology. It was by means of it that he 
was able to vanquish the greatest, one may say the last, difficulties opposed by 
Cuvier, Blainville, and other naturalists, to the opinion of Guldenstiidt and Pallas, 
as to the filiation which connects the jackal with our domestic dog. It was 
from it that he sought instruction on the fecundity of metis and hybrids. It is 
to the facts collected in this enclosure, and appreciated with rare 'clearness of 
judgment which none could fail to recognize in him, that he was indebted for 
avoiding, in the solution of such delicate questions, the opposite exaggerations 
which IVfiYQ. alternately reigned under the sanction of great names in science. 

The museum, with its its galleries and its menagerie — the Society of Accli- 
matation and the garden of the Bois de Boulogne — formed the world in which 

* In 1828 there were at the museum 7,500 stuffed birds and mammals; in 1835, 11,750; 
in 1861, 15,500. Besides the magazines contained at the latter period, 12,000 skins in a 
perfect state of preservation. 

tin 1824 the menagerie possessed 283 birds or mammals; in 1842, 420; from 1850 to 
1861, 900, on an average. 

X The Egyptian goose lays naturally about the end of December. Those reared at the 
museum for some generations laid, in 1844, in February ; in 1846, in March ; and since then, 
in April. ( Acclimatation and Domestication of the Useful Animals.) It is one of the most 
striking examples that can be quoted of the influence of the surrounding medium. 



MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY SAINT HILAIRE. 393 

tlie life of Isidore Geoffroy was passed ; a world very small, to judge by its 
extent, but very large to him who could see in it an epitome of the living crea- 
tion ; and our lamented compatriot found it extensive enough to exercise all 
the faculties of his mind and the peculiarities of his character.* 

The books of which Ave have sketched the tendency and the results attest the 
activity of his mind, while his character was not less seen in the mixture of firm- 
ness and gentleness with which he exercised his functions. At the institute and 
the museum his word had always a real authority over his colleagues. At the 
Society of Acclimatation and elsewhere many thought they followed the inspi- 
ration of their own minds when they only yielded to an influence that could 
hide itself, the better to reach a desired end. Everywhere — and this is not his 
least praise — his subordinates cheerfully obeyed his orders, always clear and 
precise, or accepted his decisions, dictated by kindness and justice. 

Isidore Geoffrey had known all the joys of the heart, and he had felt, too, all 
its sorrows. A twin sister, worthy to understand him, had been the companion 
of his childhood.t At the age of twenty-five he married Moxlemoiscllc Louise 
Blagnei: ; and all who have known this young lady remember her cultivated 
mind, affectionate disposition, and graceful manners. A son and daughter, the 
fruits of this union, brought the gaiety of childhood into this united family, 
over which was shed the influence of the gentle good sense of his mother and 
the brilliant glory of his fathei-, while he himself was becoming daily more dis- 
tinguished. It was a happiness too complete to last. Etienne Geoffrey lost 
his sight in 1840, and although the patient resignation of this martyr of science § 
tended to soften to his family the pain of this trial, all must have felt that their 
happiest days were over. The head of the family passed away the 19th June, 
1S44, and shortly after Madame Isidore Geoffrey was seized with one of those 
incurable maladies which wear out slowly the springs of life. Her husband 
had long to endure the anguish of witnessing the suflcring of a beloved being 
Avhose days are numbered. She died the 20th N"ovember, 1855. The sister 
forgot her own griefs in consoling her brother and mother. She, also, died, 
almost unexpectedly, the 13th June, 1860. - 

One should have known Isidore Geoffrey intimately to comprehend the effect 
produced by these successive losses on this savant, apparently so calm and even 
cold, but, in reality, so warm and loving. "This poor, torn hc'art felt inces- 
santly the loneliness of its home, the absence of that wliich comforts, tran- 
quillizes, vivifies." Everywhere he found "the bittei-ness of regret, the remem- 
brance of happiness once possessed."|| To escape, at times, these heart-rending 
thoughts, he plunged into study with a sort of desperation. He accepted, on 

* In speaking of tlio wonderful development of the collections of this establishment, Etienne 
Geoffroy had so id : "The museum is becoming- a Noah's ark." (Progressive Studies of a 
Naturalist.) 

t Isidore Geoffroy had had twin sisters. M. Mademoiselle Anais Gcoffroy Saint Hilaire 
died at the age of 19. The other, Madame Stephanie Geoffroy Saint Hihiire, sm-vived till 
June, 1860. The pen of a friend has rendered a just and pious homage to this lady, whom it 
is impossible to know without loving, and who had herself known every grief that could 
afflict a delicate and affectionate heart. (Lcs puit de la doulcur, by Madame Marie Tape 
Carpentier. ) 

t March 20, 1830. 

§ During his abode in Egypt, and in consequence of hard work, Geoffroy Saint Ililaire had 
been seized with ophthalmia, and had remained twenty-nine dajs without sight. "1 shall 
become blind again in my old age," he had often said. He did not the less continue to write 
great part of the night, reserving the day for his researches. This habit certainly contributed 
much to bring on the inlirmity, the anticipation of w^hich never stopped him for a single 
moment. 

il Sixth annual session of the Society of Acclimatation. Discourse of M. Drouyn de I'Huys, 
president. (Bullctinc de la Society.) If other orators liere dwelt more on the merits of 
Isidore Geoffroy as a savant, none has so well displayed the amiable qualities of the man. 



394 MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFEOY SAINT HILAIRE. 

all sides, the occupations which presented themselves to him, and found time 
for all. He felt, indeed, that his life was at stake in this struggle of grief 
against labor. " Can the bow Be always bent and not break?"* said he; and 
at that moment he doubtless felt the attacks of the malady which was to carry 
him off, but he did not thp less continue this consuming strife. 

He tells us himself that from the-.month of November, 1860, he had felt his 
head much fatigued, and had sometimes been obliged entirely to suspend his 
labors. These symptoms returned in the course of the summer of 18G1 in a 
more threatening manner. By the advice of his physicians he set out for Swit- 
zerland, in the course of September, in the hope of regaining the strength which 
seemed failing him, and he even went as far as Italy, lleturuing about the 
middle of October, he thought himself able to resume his studies, but his weak- 
ness soon reappeared. Some uncertain periodical symptoms having given the 
idea of an influence of malaria, he Avas advised change of air, and went to 
Neuilly.t He remained there scarcely a fortnight, when, his condition be- 

coming worse, he was taken back to Paris, only to lay himself upon a bed from 
which he never rose again ; and in that house, in the museum which, for sixty 
years, had attracted the most distinguished men of all countries, there remained 
only a Avidowed mother mourniiig over all that she had loved. May the vene- 
ration with which she is regarded, and that which is attached to the memory 
of those who were so dear to her — may the affectionate attentions of the young 
family which has gathered around her mitigate her sorrows.^ 

* These cxprcssious occur in a letter of Isidore Geoffroy quotutl by M. Drouyu de I'Huys. 

tM. Albeit Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, first director of tbe Jarclin Zoologiquc cV AccUmatation, 
displays, in dcvelopiug and carrying on this establishrueut, the same intelligence and filial 
devotion which animated his father, where, at about the same age, he labored in the menagerie 
of the museum. 

X Madame Geoffroy Saint Hilaire still occupies the home where she has lived since 1804. 
The ministerial decision which assigns it to her has only ratified the universal wish of the 
former colleagues of Etienne and Isidore Geoffroy. The daughter of the latter, and his son- 
in-law, M. d'Audrey, have come to live with their grandmother, bringing with them her 
great-grandchildren. 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 



THE CATALYTIC FORCE, 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 



A PRIZE MEMOIR, CY T. L. PHIPSON, D. S. TRANSLATED FOR THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



Question. "The existence of what is called the catalytic force, in which the explanation 

' of many. phenomena has been heretofore sought, having become more and more doubtful, the 

society desires a rigoious examination of the phenomena which some savans continue to 

explain by that force." — Question proposed bythe Socicte HoUandaisc .des Sciences. Haarlem, 

]858. 

The pliciaomena attributed to the catalytic force, such as the iucandescence 
of platiua in the vapor of alcohol, the uuiou of oxygen and hydrogen by means 
of platina, of pumice-stone, of humus, &c., fermentation, eremacausis, putrefaction, 
&c., &c., are extremely common, and occupy a prominent place in chem- 
ical studies. At first glance they all appear to offer an exception to the general 
laws of chemical affinity. There is, however, nothing of the kind ; and these 
phenomena which are so often met with, and w^hich, so to speak, have become 
general, afford, when we rigorously examine them, the same character of every 
other chemical reaction. 

One thing which has especially conducted me towards what I regard as the 
true interpretation of catalytic phenomena, is the study which has been recently 
made of ozone and the allotropic conditions of certain bodies other than oxygen. 
The production of ozone by the contact of phosphorus and moist air may be 
regarded, with the combination of hydrogen and oxygen by platina, as the 
type of catalytic phenomena. 

The experiments of MM. Marignac, Fremy, Bccquerel, Andrews, &c., &:c., 
prove, in an unexceptionable manner, that ozone is pure oxygen, as the diamond 
is pure carbon. If, then, we could succeed in determining by experiment the 
modifications which the molecule of oxygen undergoes in passing to the state 
of ozone, an important step Avould be taken towards the exact interpretation of 
all the phenomena of contact. 

The properties of ozone, when compared with those of oxygen, are ex- 
tremely remarkable and too well known to chemists to require full recapitula- 
tion here. It will suffice, I think, to say that ozone is to oxygen what 
oxygenated w^ater is to water — it is oxygen whose polarity is the most decided 
possible ; tliat is, whose tendency to combine with other bodies is developed 
in the highest degree. I 

"VVe must dwell a little on the phenomenon of polarity. Let us consider what 
chemists understand by this word. When tAvo different bodies are about 
to combine, we know that one passes into the electro-positive state, the other 
becoming, at the same time, electro-negative. Thus, wdien we add a base to an 
acid, the base becomes electro-positive, the acid electro-negative ; and when 
the combination is effected, the electricities of opposite names are given ofiF. It 
is then atcII established, at the present time, that a molecule A, on the point of 
combining with a molecule B, takes an electricity opposite to that of the latter. 



396 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 

Fig. 1. Wc call this polarization ; the molecules seem 

A J? to assume 2^oles. The combination completed, the 

-i- r^ — _|_ (^ — opposite electricities are given off, as the second 

^'^ figure shows, and, by intercepting them with a 

galvanometer, we identify their nature ; we prove, by direct ex- Fig. 2. 

periment, that oiccixo-negative bodies, like the acids, give off the -^ ^ 

positive electricity, while the bases or aXQctvo-joositive bodies, ■(r~Kw''- 
under these circumstances, give off the negative electricity. /' \ 

This principle governs all chemical reaction, however com- ■ ; 

plicated it may appear. And whatever may be the modifica- \^ 

tions recently introduced into our ideas respecting light, heat, '"A '' 

electricity, affinity, &c., by the imposing doctrine of the correlation ofjyhysical 
forces, we shall continue, in speaking chemically, to consider chemical reaction, 
the combination and decomposition of bodies, in this manner. For, without 
affirming that this is, at the present epoch of science, the most rational manner 
of consideration, we are able, in this way, not only to present a theory easily 
apprehended and borne out by all experiments, but haVe it further in our power 
to explain, to a certain point, by a profound study of the phenomenon of polarity, 
almost all the facts thus far observed in the vast domain of chemistry. 

I shall not inquire, in this place, whether chemical affinity be a force apart 
S7d generis, or a necessary effect of the polarization of molecules. Something 
will be said on this subject towards the close of this memoir. I affirm only 
that the phenomenon which we call polariUj accompanies and controls all com- 
binations and decompositions of bodies. 

This being premised, it still remains to demonstrate that the polarity of a 
body is not fixed ; that it varies according to the bodies with which it is brought 
into contact. To cite an example familiar to all my readers, chlorine, one of 
the most electro-negative of metaloids, becomes electro-positive in its relations 
with organic bodies, and even in relation to oxygen, under certain circum- 
stances. What is thus said of chlorine is also applicable to iodine, bromine, 
fluorine, &c.; in a word, to all analogous bodies. Sulphur, agreeabiy to the ex- 
periments of M. Befthelot, is sometimes positive, sometimes negative, according 
to circumstances. Chlorine, in the chlorides, is electro-negative ; in the 
chlorates, it is electro-positive ; and in them the nitrate of silver does not evince its 
presence, &c., &c. Thus we find that the polarity of a body changes according 
to the bodies with which Ave place it in contact. The change consists in the 
body submitted to experiment becoming electro-negative or electro-positive, 
from having jncvioushj been electro-positive or electro-negative. 

But we can modify in a different manner the polarity of a body ; that is, we 
can render it viorc or less electro-p>ositive, more or less electro-negative, and that 
without the body entering into combination with one of those which induce 
this change. Thus, by the contact of a stick of phosphorus, the polarity of the 
oxygen contained in a volume of humid air passes into an allotropic state — into 
ozone. Its polarity is thereby modified to an extraordinary degree ; it is 
much more electro-negative than in other circumstS-nces. If we decomj)Ose 
water by means of the pile, and collect the oxygen produced hi the pores of a 
charcoal pole, this oxygen is modified in the same manner. — {Osa?m.) If 
we disengage it from the bi-oxide of barj^ta by sulphuric acid, at the ordi- 
nary temperature, the effect is the same. — (Houzeau.) If, observing certain 
precautions, we disengage it by heat from the peroxide of lead, from the oxide 
of mercury, &c., we find that a certain quantity is in the state of ozone. — 
( ScJionbciyi.J When ordinary oxygen enters into combination with certain 
organic bodies, it passes into the state of ozone. — ( Schonhein, Kuldmann, and 
Pliijjson.) Not needlessly to multiply these examples, we shall only say that 
the same is the case with chlorine, with bromine, ( Andrcios,) and with hydro- 
gen, ( Osann,) as shown by experiments results of which can bear but one inter- 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 397 

pretatiou. Ordinary hydrogen, disengaged from water by zinc and sulphuric 
acid, exerts no action on a solution of sulphate of silver ; the hydrogen disen- 
gaged from water by the pile decomposes that salt. 

Electric action is peculiarly effective in augmenting or diminishing the 
polarity of a body. Thus oxygen may be converted to the state of ozone by 
the electric spark. Let a piece of copper and one of tin be placed in two 
capsules of porcelain, and an acid be poured on the two metals ; they will be 
attacked very nearly in an equal degree. But if the tin be placed in the same 
capsule, and in contact with the copper, and the acid be then added, the tin alone 
will be attacked, and more actively than in the first case, because its polarity on 
account of its contact with the copper has become greater than that of this 
metal, and the acid will not act on the copper until all the tin has been dissolved. 

We particularly desire our readers to bear this experiment in mind, for 
what we shall adduce in the sequel for the purpose of demonstrating what 
passes in catalytic reactions will bo, in effect, but little else than modifications 
of that which has just been cited.. 

When the polarity of a body is strongly modified, such body is styled 
"allotropic," (from aXkorpoTtog, of different nature.) Thus ozone is allotropic 
oxygen ; the chlorine of Andrews is allotropic chlorine ; the hydrogen produced 
by the pile, and which decomposes sulphate of silver, is allotropic hydrogen, &c. 

But this allotrojjic state of bodies is but slightly permanent, as will be here- 
after seen ; and, further, we shall endeavor to prove that bodies assume this 
state at the moment when they enter into combination. In regard to this I 
shall first cite my own experiments and observations on oxygen. M. Schcinbein 
having expressed an opinion that the action of oxygen on certain organic bodies, 
such as venous blood, &c., depends on the presence of a substance capable 
of transforming oxygen into ozone, I was led to study this allotropic modifi- 
cation of oxygen under the same point of view. 

First, I repeated and confirmed the ingenious experiments of the learned 
chemist of Basle, in which he studied the action of ozone in the mushroom ; 
and these studies appear to me to cast light on the subject with which we 
are occupied It is known that the flesh of certain species of the mushroom and 
boletus (among others the Boletiis luridus, B. cyanescemis, &c.) possesses the 
remarkable property of changing color when broken and exposed to the atmos- 
phere. For instance, the internal tissue of the boletus luridus becomes blue under 
these. circumstances. Now, experiment shows us that this boletus contains a 
colorless, resinous principle, soluble in alcohol, and this alcoholic solution is 
affected, as regards oxygen and ozone, in the same way with the alcoholic 
solution of the resin of guaiacum, which has been employed by M. Schonbein 
and myself in some experiments as a test for ozone. This resinous prin- 
ciple, Avhich is separated from the boletus by means of alcohol, can assume no 
color spontaneously from the air when it is separated from the mushroom ; but 
in the parenchyma of the vegetable it promptly becomes blue on the least con- 
tact with oxygen. Experiment further proves that the expressed juice of 
several mushrooms contains an organic principle possessing the property of 
transforming oxygen into ozone, so that, by causing a current of air to pass 
through this juice, a certain quantity of oxygen is retained in the liquid in the 
state of ozone, the presence of which is indicated by mixing with the liquid a 
little of the alcoholic solution of guaiacum, or that of the colorless resin of the 
boletus. If the liquid contains no ozone, no coloration occurs; if ozone be 
present, a deep blue tint is obtained. 

I have repeated experiments of this kind upon a great number of different 
mushrooms, and on the juice of different phanerogamous plants. I have found 
that the peculiar matter which transforms oxygen into ozone may exist in 
mushrooms, where the colorless resin of the boletus tribe does not occur ; the 
peculiar matter and the resin may be wanting in certain other mushrooms, but 



398. STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 

the first may be formed in tlie expressed juice after a certain lapse of time. I 
entertained no doubt, therefore, that this peculiar matter, which cfiects the 
transformation of oxygen into ozone, is of the nature of fei-meuts. I have 
verified its presence in all phanerogamous plants whose juice gives a blue color 
with the resin of guaiacum. It seemed desirable, furthermore, to determine 
whether the organic acids had anything to do with this color, for some of 
these acids react, we know, on pectose, starch, sugar, &c., as yeast does. My 
experiments have, however, satisfied me that the organic acids have no imme- 
diate action on an alcoholic solution of guaiacum ; that these acids do not pro- 
duce a blue color in the tincture of guaiacum when alone or when previously 
mixed with the liquid obtained from mushrooms, the juice of which does not 
act upon this reagent. On the contrary, certain acids, for example tartaric, 
citric, and oxalic prevent the coloration of the juice of certain mushrooms, whose 
juices act on the alcoholic solution of guaiacum when these acids are not present. 
Although nature then appears sometimes to employ these acids for inducing 
metamorphoses, it would seem that they do not act in this case. 

From these facts I have come to the conclusion that the peculiar matter 
spoken of above must be of the nature of a ferment, and the experiments of M. 
S^hachfc lend support to my opinion ; for that chemist believes that the juice of 
phanerogamous plants owes its property of turning the resin of guaiacum blue 
to the presence of what he calls vegetable gelatine, and he affirms that this 
substance no longer acts when boiled. 

Among my experiments of this kind I will cite one Avhich is easy to repeat. 
Wc know with what facility a slice of apple changes in the air ; its surface 
becomes brown in the course of a few minutes. This coloration is known to be 
owing to the action of oxygen ; it is a commencement of eremacausis. 

Now I think I have proved, as will be seen in the sequel, that when oxygen 
acts thus on organic bodies, producing the phenomenon known by the name of 
eremacausis or slow combustion, this oxygen is always in the state of ozone at 
the moment when it reacts.- To verify this with the slice of apple, we need only 
diffuse over the fruit a drop or two of the tincture of guaiacum ; at the end of 
three or four seconds the reagent changes to a bright blue color. Let it be ob- 
served that this tincture, exposed to the air on glass, porcelain, clean paper, 
&c., will not change color for a long time; and, moreover, as has been already 
seen, the organic acids are iiiactive in this phenomenon. 

I have carried my experiments further, and have arrived at the conclusion 
that the first phase of a\\ fermentation or eremacausis hjj the ivfiuencc of the air 
consists in the transformation of the oxygen of the air into ozone. Thus, as in 
the most ordinary cases of inorganic mineral chemistry, all commences with a 
phenomenon of polarity. 

What has just been said is particularly striking, as regards the phenomena 
presented by the resinijication or oxidation of certain essential oils. The extra- 
ordinary manner in which the oil of turpentine (tcrebenthine) exalts the activity 
of oxygen is now known to all chemists. The aerated turpentine transforms 
sulphurous acid' into sulphuric acid, the oxide of lead into peroxide, arsen- 
ious into arsenic acid, &c. — (KuMmann.) Other essences act in the same 
manner on oxygen by transforming it into ozone ; and in my experiments 
I have never yet met with an essential oil which did not exercise this property. 

Still further, in examining different fats and fixed oils, I have been convinced 
that they possess, in a certain degree, as regards oxygen, the same properties 
with the essence of turpentine and the volatile oils. 

The substances with which I have most frequently experimented arc crude 
turpentine, the extract of bitter almo*nds, of cinnamon, of caraway, the balsam 
of Peru, most of which were acid and reacted on litmus paper. They produced, 
however, no effect on the ozonoscopic paper until an absorption of oxygen 
had taken place. 



STUDIES OX THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 399 

If wc place a very small quantity of one of tliese bodies on ozonoscopic 
paper, and expose the whole to the air, we shall perceive that at the end of a 
quarter of an hour the paper begins to be colored, and the coloration proceeding 
from the deposit extends itself further and further. The same thing takes place 
with solid fats, stearine, margarine, &c., and with the fixed oils. One of 
the Substances which most readily undergoes eremacausis is liquid sugar, 
especially if it has been extracted from honey. If wc place some of this sugar, 
already embrowned by the action of oxygen, at the bottom of a i3ask, and sus- 
pend from the stopper an ozonoscopic paper, this last becomes colored in a very 
short time.* There are reasons, also, for thinking that starch itself, under 
certain circumstances, transforms oxygen into ozone, and here lies, in my 
opinion, the cause of the discussions which have lately arisen on the eiiicacy 
of this paper as a reagent for ozone ; iodurettcd starch, when dry and 
placed beyond the influence of disturbing agents, such as hyponitric acid, &c., 
is an excellent test for ozone ; but ioduretted starch, wet and exposed to 
the solar light, can furnish only doubtful results, to say the least, for, in under- 
going eremacausis, it should transform oxygen into ozone like other organic 
bodies. There can never be a doubt of the presence or absence of ozone Avheu 
we employ mineral reagents, such as sulphurous acid, the black sulphuret of lead, 
which ozone immediately transforms into sulphuric acid and into white sulphate 
of lead ; or even with the blue sulphate of indigo, with which ozone produces 
colorless tsatine. 

The ethers and the alcohols while absorbing oxygen also transform it into 
ozone. Sulphuric ether, in this instance, promptly discharges the color 
from a solution of indigo. A solution of iodide of potassium in alcoholic ether 
soon yields a precipitate of iodine through the action of the air, (a fact well 
known to photographers who employ collodion,) because ether attracts oxygen 
and converts it fnto ozone. Ordinary oxygen, it is known, docs not precipitate 
the iodine from the iodide of potassium. Moreover, the acetic acid produced during 
the reaction of air on alcoholized ether is not the cause of the precipitation 
of the iodine, as we may convince ourselves by direct experiment. In fact, if 
acetic acid be added to the solution of iodide of potassium in alcoholized ether, 
%e iodine is not precipitated until after the lapse of several hours. When this 
jaixture is oxidized, on the contrary, the precipitation of the iodine commences 
immediately. This phenomenon may be artiiicially produced by plunging an 
iron wire, heated to redness, into a mixture of the vapor of ether and air ; by 
then pouring ioduret of potassium into the flask the iodine is at once disengaged. 
This last experiment was devised, I believe, by M. Ilardwich. 

We may add to what has been just said in relation to organic bodies, that M. 
Schonbein, by employing the alcoholic solution of the resin of guaiacum, has 
succeeded in proving that the oxygen furnished by the action of heat on the 
oxides of gold, of mercury, of platina, of silver, as well as on the peroxides 

* This is one of the first experiments which demonstrated to mo that organic bodies can 
transform oxygen into ozone. This action of sugar on oxygen may be made manil'est in 
another manner. If we pkmge a bit of metal — iron, for instance — into a solution of any sort 
of sugar, we observe that the iron is rapidly and thoroughly oxidized where the metal is in 
contact with the sugar and the air; that is, at the surface of the liquid. If the metal is com- 
pletely submerged in tlie solution it is not oxidized at all, or, at least, a very long time must 
elapse for oxidation to manifest itself. The corrosive action which sugar exerts on iron was 
long since observed, and the captains of iron trading-vessels are often averse to carrying 
cargoes of sugar for this reason. This corrosive action is owing to the fact that sugar (es- 
pecially impure sugar or molasses) transforms the oxygen of the ambient air into ozone, which 
actively attacks the iron where it is in contact with the sugar and the air. The result, in the 
expei imeut above cited, is the formation of an abundant red precipitate, the larger part of 
which is oxide of iron. A combination is at the same time formed, which has been anal^'zed 
by Dr. Gladstone, and which is (C^ H'' O" FeO. ) It is impossible to produce tliis combiiia- 
tion directly with sugar and the iron oxide. JIany otiier metals are attacked like iron wtcn. 
placed in these circumstances — copper less than the other.s. 



400 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OP CONTACT. 

of lead and of manganese, contains traces of ozone. The quantity of tliis last 
depends ou the temperature at wliicli the oxide gives vip its oxygen ; the oxides 
which give up their oxygen most readily yield the most ozone. 

Again, every one knows that by decomposing the bioxide of barytes at the 
ordinary temperature by the action of sulphui-ic acid, M. Houzeau has obtained 
ozone in great quantity. It is known, since chemistry has existed as a science, 
how much the nascent state of a body influences the combinations which it 
is capable of effecting ; one combination is possible only when one of the bodies 
which enter into it is in the nascent state ; another only when the two bodies 
which form it arc in that state. What is called "nascent state " is, in my view, 
nothing else but the allotropic state of the bodies entering into combination ; an 
opinion which I long since made public, and in which M. Houzeau seems to 
concur with me. 

From all these facts it appears incontestable that in every case in wliicli oxygen 
enters into combination or ahandons its combinations it is in the state of ozone. 
If, then, we reflect on the results already obtained with hydrogen, chlorine, 
bromine, sulphur, phosphorus, &:c., we shall be led to the conclusion that it must 
probably be the same with all simple bodies ; that is to say, that all these bodies 
may assume an allotroj^ic state analogous to ozone ; that they are in that state 
at the moment of entering into combination, or when they are in the "nascent 
state." 

When a body in this allotropic state is isolated, as, for example, ozone pre- 
pared by sulphuric acid and the bioxide of barytes, or in any other manner, we 
may observe that it passes by degrees, and in a very short time, to its ordinary 
state ; and this is as it should be, for this body has necessarily a tendency to the 
state of equilibrium which is observed in all parts of nature. We have said 
that ozone is an allotropic state of oxygen; it is sometimes called "electrified 
oxygen."* As has been shown, it is oxygen whose polarity is developed in the 
highest possible degree. When ozone is produced, it is as though we took a 
molecule of oxygen in a neutral electric state and "deprived it more or less com- 
pletely of its positive fluid. It is clear that this molecule will constantly tend 
to reabsoib this lost fluid, that it may return to its natural state of equilibrium. 
This is the reason why the stability of bodies in this state is so slight. 

We have noticed the influence exerted ou the polarity of bodies by electricity. 
The action of light, in this respect, is not less manifest. The properties of 
chlorine exposed to diffused iight, and of chlorine exposed to the solar light, 
constitute a striking example of what has just been said. Besides, many of the 
phenomena before spoken of, are best produced under the influence of light. To 
what extent heat operates in the development of polarity has been known 
since it was observed that certain combinations, which could not be effected at 
the ordinary temperature, are successfully brought about when the temperature 
of the reacting bodies is raised. To cite one example, Avhich will be suf- 
ficient; when we have a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen in a glass 
receiver at the ordinary temperature, these gases will not combine; but if 
the mixture be heated, combination takes place immediately, because the heat 
develops the polarity of the two gases. But how do heat, light, and electricity 
develop polarity 1 This question we shall answer hereafter. The contact of 
a third body, not susceptible of combining with one or other of the two reacting 
bodies, is another condition which greatly modifies the polarity of bodies. This 
third body acts by its presence like heat, electricity, &c., in the development 
of polarity. Berzelius thought he had detected in these phenomena of contact 
the existence of a new force, which he called catalytic force, but in reality there 
is nothing here but a phenomenon of polarity, as will be presently shown. 



* It is thus designated by M. Scoutteten iu liis treatise on ozone, which name, however, is 
erroneous. 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 401 

Among the phenomena commonly cicsignatecl by the term phenomena of con- 
tact or catuhjt'tc phenomena, we may mention, a3 one of the most remarkable, 
the discovery in 1817, by Sir II. Davy, that a wire of platina will continue 
incandescent in certain gaseous mixtures. He observed, in this manner, the 
slow combustion of alcohol, of ether, of spirits of turpentine, of the oil of naphtha, 
of carburetted hydrogen, &c. lie found, still later, that palladium possessed 
the same property. Some years afterwards, M. Doebereincr invented his hydro- 
gen light apparatus, in which he employed spongy platina, and nearly at the 
same time Thenard observed the curious and apparently inexplicable phenomena 
which are exhibited when oxygenated neater is added to certain oxides, such as 
the oxide of silvei*, &c. Dulong and Thenard subsequently studied the cata- 
lytic influence o? palladium, (previously noticed by Davy.) o? rhodium, oi iri- 
dium, of gold, of silver, of nickel, and even of substances of a different nature, 
such as charcoal, pumice-stone, porcela.in, glass, and ro(-k crystal. Still later, 
Th. de Saussure announced that certain organic bodies, such as humus compost, 
wheat,* cotton, silk, and lignine, possess properties analogous to those of the 
bodies previously named. He observed that these bodies effect a diminution 
of volume in a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, and that the volume which 
disappears is In the proportion requisite to form water. MM. Mitscherlich, 
Faraday, Reinsch, Boettger, Millon, and others, have still further enlarged th«! 
field of catalytic phenomena. According to M. Reinsch, fibres of asbestos, when 
gilded or plated, exhibit all the phenomena which have been remarked with 
wire of platina or palladium, and it is nearly the same if these fibres be covered 
with iron, nickel, cobalt, or lead. M. Bosttger thinks that it is not always the 
metal, but often its oxide, which is the active body in these latter cases. He 
covered fibres of asbestos with oxide by plunging them in the solution of a 
metallic salt, then in ammonia, whence they were rapidly passed through boiling 
water, and were heated to redness in the llame of an alcohol lamp. It results, 
then, that the oxides of chromium, iron, nickel, maganese, &c., act like the 
platina wire of Davy. One of the last labors of the illustrious Thenard proved 
that in the case of any body whatever capable of disengaging a gas by heat, 
suc?i disengagement always takes place at a lower temperature xchen a iliird 
body, a metal, an oxide, Sfc, is added, although wc are sure that this third body 
takes no part in the reaction. The presence of chijjs of beech-wood in the 
manuf'icturc of vinegar is another example of the phenomena with which we 
are engiged. Yeast and the cognate bodies may be placed in the same class. 

In all these instances it is chemical changes which are in question ; the 
combinations and decompositions of bodies. But contact may sometimes deter- 
mine changes exclusively physical; as, for example, in the sudden crystalliza- 
tion of a saturated solution of sulphate of soda by the contact of a slip of glass. 
In 18-50 I discovered that certain saks might eftect the same molecular change 
on the phosphorus which Woshl r had observed in fu^^ing ordinary phosphorus 
in a mixture of sulphuric acid aud bichromate of potassa. These are salts 
whose cold solutions phosphorus does not decoinpose, or at least decomposes but 
slowly. The following is what I stated at that tim^ : " It is a very remarkable 
fact that certain salts, Avhose cold solutions phosphorus docs not decompose, 
appear to exert a pecu'iar action on it, causing it to undergo a molecular modifi- 
cation. If a portion of opaque reddish pho-phorus be placed in nitrate of iron, 
diluted by about once its own volume of water, no chiunical action is remarked 
even after a long space of time. If the whole be then heated until the complete 
fusion of the phosphorus is effected, and the tube with which we operate be then 
removed to a quiet place, the phosphorus Avill remain liquid a long time, and 
on decanting the liquor, will suddenly become solid, resembling, in all respects, a 
globule of melted glass. In decanting the salt after cooling, the liquid phosphorus 
will sometimes flow off with the solution. If after receiving the whole on filtering 
paper, we touch this liquid phosphorus with .1 rod of glass, it suddenly be- 
26 s 



402 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 

comes solid, and without any sensible change of volume. "With a magnifying 
glass, it is easy to see that no trace of crystallization exists in the globule. It 
is a limpid drop, and colorless as melted glass. By experimenting in different 
ways, I ascertained that this limpid phosphorus differs, as regards its chemical 
properties, in no respect from ordinary phosphorus. It does not, however, 
take lire when poured out in a still liquid state in contact with the air. This, 
then, is not an allotropic state of phosphorus analogous to ozone, but a molecular 
state peculiar to this body. I have satisfied myself that other salts may act on 
phosphorus like the nitrate of iron. If this colorless phosphorus be melted 
under water and then exposed to the light, it reverts to the state of ordinary 
opaque yellow phosphorus." 

Other examples of physical changes, analogous to those just mentioned, are 
furnished by sublimation of the black sulp buret of mercury, which, by this 
treatment, becomes red, by the red and yellow iodides of mercury; and since 
in nature all phenomena are linked with on(i another, these two categories of 
facts, to wit : the chemical and the purely physical changes induced by contact, 
arc connected by the phenomena of the explosion of different fulminating pow- 
ders by mere contact with the barbs of a feather. 

But th(;se two last classes of facts stand somewhat apart from the domain 
of catalytic phenomena, inasmuch as they are regarded as chemical 'phenomena. 
Thus my experiments have taught me that phosphorus assumes the limpid and 
colorless state whenever its refrigeration, after fusion, takes place under the 
prescribed conditions, whatever may be the liquid Avith which we operate. It 
is a phenomenon exclusively physical. If certain saline solutions cause it to 
pass into this colorless and limpid state, it is because the phosphorus melted 
in these solutions can cool more regularly than in pure water, and because such 
cooling allows the molecules of phos[)horus to arrange themselves in a position 
suited to transmit the light entirely without reflecting or dispersing it. The 
black and o])aque modification of phosphorus, discovered by Thenard, is an anal- 
ogous though inverted example of a molecular change. 

An analogous case is presented in fibrous iron, when it is made to undergo 
frequent and prolonged vibrations. There is established in the mass, ac- 
cording to Pelouze, Liebig, and others, a molecular movement which occa- 
sions tiie crystallization of the metal ; so that it is not rare to see a bar of iron 
of good quality slowly transformed under the influence of the vibrations into 
iron crystallized with large facets. 

Phenomena of this sort belong, as we have seen, to the domain of physics, 
and have nothing in common with catalytic phenomena. Another order of 
facts, which more nearly approaches the latter, appears in the case of certain 
oxides, which, when submitted to a certain degree of heat, become perfectly 
indijj'crcnt in regard to reagents, giving place to a sort of phosphoresceace. 
They are then no longer dissolved in acids, or if so, are acted upon with much diffi- 
culty. This may be referable to a loss of water, sustained by the calcination 
of these oxides, but it is more probable that these ^\\q\\o\xiq.\\.i o^ indijfcrcn.ee are 
analogous, but inverse to what is presented by oxygen when it passes into the 
state of ozone. 

The passiritij of iron, of cobalt, and of nickel — three of the most magnetic 
metals — app(!ars due, according to recent experiments, to a slight layer of 
oxide, or another combination which forms suddenly on the surface of the pol- 
ished nu'tal, and preserves it from the contact of the acid. From some trials 
which I have lately made, but which arc not complete, I am led to believe that 
other metals may show the same property in certain conditions. 

Let us pass to the examination of what occurs in catalytic phenomena, 
properly so called, and let us take as a first example and type the combination 
of hydrogen and of oxygen under the infiueucc of the presence of platina. This 
phenomenon is sometimes known under the name of slow combustion, a term 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 403 

which serves to flcsii^nate, at the same time, a great number of like facts. Davy 
soaght to explain the slow combustions which he liad observed by saying : 
"Platina and palladium conduct heat badly, being of feeble capacities in com- 
parison with other metals ; and in tliis, it seems to me, resides the principal 
cause why they maintain, produce, and render sensible these slow combustions." 
But we have seen that sundry other bodies act in the same manner as the wire 
of platina and palladium, when they arc placed in the same conditions. M. 
Doberciner, on the contrary, regarded the combustion of hydrogen by the influ- 
ence of platina as "an electric eft'ect resulting from a circuit in which hydro- 
gen represents the zinc and the platina the other metal. It is the first example," 
he added, "of an electric circuit formed of a gaseous substance with a concrete 
body, Avhose activity has been verified." Since then, Grove, in England, has 
constructed his gaseous battery, of which we shall speak directly. Berzelius 
imagines a new force generated in the contact of this tliird body, (platina;) a force 
which he calls the catalytic, but of which he establishes no property unless it 
be that of causing the two bodicss to combine which, before the contact of the 
third did not react. The influence which this great man exercised in chemistry 
has caused his theory to be blindly adopted by many chemists. Nevertheless, 
in proportion as catalytic phcnomcuia became more common, as they began to 
acquire the features of generalization, doubts respecting the existence of this 
new force sprang up. And we shall endeavor, presently, to prove that this is 
not only a gratuitous hypothesis, but that, with the knowledge even then 
possessed regarding chemical combination, there was no need of supposing, for 
an instant, its existence. Doebereiner was, it seems to us, much nearer the 
truth than Berzelius, and this great chemist himself was subsequently led to 
regard the phenomena of the catalytic force as electrical. 

Let us return now to the combination of hydrogen and oxygen under the 
influence of platina ; and, to render things more evident, let us suppose for an 
instant that we have a molecule of hydrogen, A, and a molecule of oxygen, B, 
covered with neutral fluid. When we place these molecules in contact at the 
ordinary temperature, they Avill remain neutral ; we shall observe neither chem- 
ical phenomena, nor electrical phenomena. But let them be heated ; polarity 
manifests itself, combination takes place, and the needle of a galvanometer will 
sufficiently attest what is passing. By the action of the heat the two molecules, 
A and B, become the one positive, the other negative, in relation to one another. 
At the instant when the combination takes place the hydrogen gives off the 
negative fluid, the oxygen the positive fluid, and these two fluids passing 
into the wires of the galvanometer move the magnetic needle. There are 
here, then, two neutralizations of fluids; one in the water, formed by the com- 
bination ; the other by the fluids given off. 

This phenomenon which we have just been examining is the type of what is 
callcid combustion. Now, what heat has effected in this case the presence of a 
third body may likewise effect. This third body has tlic power, by its presence 
alone, of exciting "combustion" at a temperature much lower than that which 
is necessary for the production of this phenomenon when this third body is not 
fresent. It effects this by ii phenomenon of polarity identical with that which 
is observed in every other chemical reaction. 

Before proving this by experiment, I shall show, with the help of a small 
diagram, what passes under these circumstances. Let us imagine the three 
bodies, hydrogen, oxygen, and platina sponge, in presence of each other: 




404 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OP CONTACT. 

Pj 3 The polarity -wliich was developed between the hy- 

jjl- , drogen and oxygen by the action of heat is now 

^^ developed between these by the presence of the 

TJ-ij|';jl| -..^ , platina. The negative electricity of the hydrogen 

i >r~K tends to combine with the positive fluid of the platina, 

i Qt'l^jPt while the positive electricity of the oxygen tends to 

'; ^^ unite with the negative fluid of the metal. The 

€|FNi .....--'''' oxygen and hydrogen become thus negative and 

^ positive in relation to one another, and can, conse- 

^^' quently, unite. Thus the two gases combine in 

neutralizing their proper electricities. When, in place of using a simple wire 
of platina, we augment the surface of the latter by employing what is called the 
sjjonge of platina. tiio action is much more intense. In this case the platina 
becomes incandescent in consequence of the electric action exerted on the sur- 
face of that metal, and the heat developed is such that the hydrogen is eventu- 
ally kindled. 

I shall doubtless be asked if it is possible to prove, by FJff- ■*. 

direct experiment, that these phenomena really take place, ^'^7 
and if we have not here, also, an hypothesis or gratuitous /f":..-\- '' 
supposition. I shall proceed at once to support by cxperi- -; ''^ 
ment what I have just advanced, having only wished, in |||j' 
order to make myself more clear, to indicate the theory ^';^'- 
first and enter upon the facts afterwards : '^ ' 

Take two tubes of glass, one containing oxygen, the other hydi'Ogen gas, 
and place them upon water which is acidified with a drop of sulphuric acid to 
make it a better conductor. Let there be then introduced into each tube a 
strip of platina, so that it shall be plunged in the gas of the respectire tubes 
and be then bent back under the water in oider to project from the surface of 
the liquid. So long as the two strips of platina thus disposed remain separated, 
we shall realize notliing ; but let them bj united by a galvanic multiplier, and 
there Avill instantly be perceived on the magnetic needle the action of the current 
proceeding from the strips of platina. We have thus, therefore, created a voltaic 
arrangement, by means of which Ave may produce all the effects which would bo 
yielded by an ordinary pile. Fifty of these elements united constitute tho 
celebrated gas battery of M. (irovc, Avhich is well known to all oui 
readers. When the slips of platina present to the gas in the tubes a small 
surface, the action is feeble, and it increases wilh the extent of the surface 
of metal in contact with the gas. When this species of pile is exclusively cm- 
ployed in decomposing Avater, the volumes of the gases proceeding from 
the decomposition and collected in the voltameter are, both for the hydrogen 
and the oxygen, exactly equal to the sum of the volumes of these gases which 
disappear in the tubes of the pile. In proportion as the work goes on, the 
volumes of the gases in the tubes diminish ; tin^y are visibly absorbed, and the 
volume of hydrogen which disappears is always double that of the oxygen. 
We see the same process here as Avhen we burn hydrogen by means of 
oxygen, at the ordinary temperature, by the contact of the spongy platina. 
Here, therefore, is one experiment in support of our assertions. Let us pass 
to others : 

If we place a small gauge, made of a tube from tAvo to three millimetres in 
diameter and filled with hydrogen gas, on a vessel containing a concentrated 
solution of chloride of gold, at the end of some days, if the temi^crature has not 
sensihlij varied, the level of the chloride in the interior of the tube is little dif- 
ferent from Avhat it was previously; but if a platina wire be introduced from 
beloAV into the gauge in such manner that it shall be in part immersed in the 
hydrogen gas and in part immersed at its loAver extremity in the solution of gold, 
we see the gas diminish in volume in the interior, and even completely disap- 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 405 

peai-, at the end of a certain time, if the platiiia Avire ascends to the top of the 
tube. At the same time that the hydrogen disappears metallic gold is precip- 
itated on the portion of the platina wire Avhich is immersed in the metallic 
solution. In this experiment the hydrogen is burned by the chloride of gold, 
instead of being burned by the oxygen, as in the previous experiment. The 
positive electricity of the platina unites with the negative electricity of the 
hydrogen, and the negative fluid of the platina unites with the positive elec- 
tricity of the salt. When the hydrogen reduces the latter, there are formed 
chloiliydric acid and metallic gold. The same thing would take place if we 
operated witlwut the j)Jatina, but at a high temperature only, as has been already 
observed in reference to hydrogen and oxygen alone; for heat, as well as the 
presence of a third body, develops polarity. 

We have here exactly the phenomena Avliich are 2)resented by the voltaic pile ; 
in fact, a jiile is composed of two different metals and of a liquid which can act 
on one of the metals. If we take water as the liquid, pure ii-on and pure copper 
as the metals, and plunge the pure iron alone in the water, there is no action ; 
but if we add a third body — the copper — action exhibits itself, as the galvanometer 
indicates, the iron is oxidized, and hydrogen is disengaged. Volta intro- 
duced, from the beginning, three substances into the composition of his pile — 
two metals and moistened cloth. 

The following are additional experiments: Take a porous vessel and place it 
in a glass. In the porous vessel put hydrochloric acid ; in the glass, nitric 
acid ; then let a strip of gold be placed in each receptacle ; so long as 
the two strips remain separated there is no action ; but, on bringing them 
together, they are immediately attacked, and the gold in the hydrochloric acid 
is dissolved; the nitric acid is at the same time deoxidized by the nascent 
hydrogen conveyed through the sides of the porous vase, while an electric 
current traverses the strips of gold. 

I'urthcr, hydrochloric acid mixed with nitric acid does not act on tlu; latter if 
the two acids are diluted; but if we add a third body, iron, copper, gold, 
plaLina, &c., action commences instantly ; the chlorine is disengaged, the nitric 
acid is deoxidized, and the metal combines with the chlorine. 

It is known that zinc oxidizes slowly in water, because it is an electro-pos- 
itive metal ;. the disengagement of hydrogen in this case is very slow at the 
ordinary temperature — so slow as scarcely to be perceptible. But if a highly 
electro-negative body, such as sulphuric acid, be added, the polarity of the 
zinc is augmented ; it becomes so electro-positive that the hydrogen is driven 
with violence from its combination, and the zinc becomes its substitute. Before 
the addition of the acid the polarity of the zinc was analogous to that of the 
hydrogen ; but after that addition the metal becomes much more electro-posi- 
tive than the hydrogen. Here is a phenomenon of polarity identical with 
that which takes place when a strip of platina is introduced into a deto- 
nating mixture. The sulphuric acid here acts, in regard to the zinc, as the 
platina towards the hydrogen. 

I shall here cursorily cite some circumstances in which the influence of the 
presence of a third body makes itself felt in the most ordinary cases : 

1. Pure iron in dry air is not attacked ; in humid air it oxidizes. 

2. Iron, in boiled water, (not aerated,) does not oxidize ; in aerated water, 
oxidizes. 

3. The peroxide of manganese (MNO^) calcined in oxygen (or in air) does 
not alter;* heated in presence of oxygen and a base, a manganate is formed, 
(RO, MNOl) 

4. When electric sparks arc passed into a mixture of dnj nitrogen and 
oxygen, no reaction is observed ; if the two gases are moistened, nitric acid is 
formed. 



If the temperature is very high, it loses oxygeu. 



406 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 

5. Sulphurous and liyponitric acids, (SO^ + AZO*,) when dry, do not 
react, but if water be added, we obtain (AZO^SO^ + HOSO^) wliich constitutes 
the crystals of the leaden chamber. 

I would also call to mind that the action of aqua regia on the metals, Avhich 
I have just cited, has been, for some time past, perfectly explained by 
chemists, (especially by Professor Koene, of the University of Brussels,) and 
all are nearly agreed as to the phenomena which present themselves when the 
two acids (OLH and AZO^) are poured on a metal. Now, have we not, in this 
case, exactly the same phenomena which are observed when we place spongy 
platiua in a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases 1 

The following experiment, easy to repeat, is a type of many chemical 
operations, and has not escaped being somej;imes attributed to the " catalytic 
force:" when dry chalk is placed in a gun barrel, open at the cuds, and 
heated, the chalk will yield its carbonic acid at a certain temperature, A. 
But if, while being heated, a current of vapor of water be passed over the 
chalk, it will yield its carbonic acid at another temperature, B, considerably 
lower than the temperature A. The explanation of this fact is quite simple. 
The vapor of water acts here by what is called in chemistry the injluence of the 
mass. The water is a Aveak base; the chalk a very strong one; yet the 
volatility of the carbonic acid by heat, joined to the influence which the 
mass of water exercises, causes the carbonate to yield its acid in presence 
of the water at a temperature much lower than that which is requisite to pro- 
duce this phenomenon when the water is not present. It does not follow thence 
that the water wliich has induced this phenomenon combines with the lime 
produced. The vapor acts solely as the platina does in Davy's experiment 
of slow combustion. 

If, in one of the preceding experiments, in which oxygen gas, hydrogen gas, 
and platina have been brought into contact, we substitute vapor of alcohol for 
the hydrogen, we shall observe a phenomenon identical with that which is 
presented by the two simple gases. The alcohol will be burned like the 
hydrogen. In place of water we shall have aldehyde as the product, and the 
explanation of the phenomenon wll remain the same. There is, in effect, a de- 
velopment of polarity between the three bodies, and a pile might be quite as 
well constructed by replacing the hydrogen in the pile of Grove with vapor of 
alcohol, xilcohol, which is always more or less electro-positive in relation to 
oxygen, becomes, by the presence of the platina, much more electro-positive ; 
tlie oxygen tends, thereby, to combine with it, and this tendency naturally 
determines the formation of aldehyde and acetic acid. The same phenomenon 
presents itself when other vapors are substituted for that of alcohol, such as 
those of different essences or essential oils, of ether, oil of naphtha, &c. 

In these circumstances, when in place of platina other metals or non-metallic 
bodies are employed, it is often necessary, in order that the action should man- 
ifest itself with all its intensity, to add the agency of heat, that the phenomenon 
of polarity may manifest itself and the combinations take place. But, in all 
cases, it will never be necessary to raise the temperature to so high a degree, in 
order to produce these phenomena, as it would be without the presence of the 
third body. 

The presence of a third body may effect or facilitate decompositions, as 
well as combinations, in accordance with the same law. Thus, in a mixture of 
nitrous acid gas and hydrogen, the former gas is decomposed under the influence 
of the platina sponge. All the oxides of nitrogen in this case yield ammonia. 
Iron, copper, gold, &c., have the property of decomposing ammonia, if a little 
heat be applied : and, according to Davy, nitrous acid may be formed under 
these circumstances, (the presence of a metal,) at the expense of cyanogen 
and oxygen, whereas, in the same case, cyanogen and hydrogen give cyanuret 
of ammonia. 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 407 

It may be asked why tlie spongy platina acts more efSciently in phe- 
nomena of contact than the wire of the same metal. It is because in proportion 
as a body is divided its surftice is increased, and we have before seen that in 
the gas battery the action is so much the more intense as there is a greater 
surface of the phitina in contact with the gas. Hence it is that we have in 
chemistry the general law, that the greater the division of bodies the better they 
react. Now, platina sponge is platina extremely divided, that is to say, pre- 
senting a very large surface. We further see the effect of division in the 
inflammation of pyrophorus. 

In the phenomena which we have been examining the presence of ?i fourth 
body usually prevents the phenomenon of polarity from taking place, and con- 
sequently destroys the influence of the third body. Thus the presence of 
carbonic acid, for example, in the case of oxygen and hydrogen, prevents their 
combining through the presence of a metal. It is thus, too, that a drop of 
essence, will prevent fermentation. The spongy platina condenses in its pores 
from thirty to forty times its volume of ammoniacal gas. Now, in this state, it is 
altogether unfit to effect the combination of oxygen and hydrogen, and the 
platina does not recover this property so long as it contains ammonia. The 
presence of a fourth body does not, however, always exercise this influence. It 
is necessary that it should be a body suited to react with the others to place them 
in a state of equilibrium. Thus the presence of a little nitrogen does not prevent 
the combination or the slow combustion of hydrogen mixed with oxygen, under 
the circumstances we are considering. It has been seen, from my experiments 
cited above, that the presence of an acid (as a fourth body) prevents the produc- 
tion of ozone in certain special cases. 

In ordinary fermentation, namely, in that, which is occasioned in a solution 
of sugar by leaven, it has been shown by Gay Lussac that the presence or the 
contact of air or of oxygen is an essential condition of the manifestation of the 
phenomenon, but that a single particle of oxygen suffices to excite, by 
leavening, the fermentation of a great quantity of sugar. Noav, we have already 
seen that organic bodies may act upon oxj^gcn to transform it into ozone ; that 
is, may induce a phenomenon of polarity ; and, moreover, in the experiments of 
De Saussure, that organic bodies may cause the combination of hydrogen and 
oxygen. We have already said that, in our opinion, fermentation commences 
with a phenomenon of polarity ; oxygen or the leaven (it matters not which, as 
action is always equal to reaction,) acts here as the platina does in the mixture 
of oxygen and hydrogen. Polarity once brought into play in the saccharine 
solution, there is no reason why it should cease as long as there remains any 
sugar. The facility with Avhich oxygen, as we have seen, is transformed into 
ozone by its contact with ftrganic bodies, determines, from the very first, this 
phenomenon of polarity. The ozone produced being negative and the leaven 
positive, in relation to the gas, this oxygen tends to combine Avith the leaven ; 
the sugar is, as it were, placed between the two poles of a pile ; it is therefore 
divided into two other bodies, of which one is negative (COo) and the other 
positive (AEH.) 

Fig. 5. The presence of a fourth body often 

prevents this phenomenon; thus, when 
the alcohol produced becomes suffi- 
ciently predominant, all action ceases, 
and it is necessary constantly to re- 
move this product, if we wish the fer- 
^--''' ""'^'.^^ mentation to continue for an indefinite 

" %^ --^_ time. 
— w It is probable that something anal- 

,^ T^cty^f^ ogous takes place when caseine con- 

verts sugar of milk into lactic acid. 




.^ 



+ 



^x^y. 



408 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 

It has quite lately been placed bciyond doubt that there are three bodies 
present in this pluMiomenon, to wit : oxygen, sugar of milk, and a peculiar fer- 
ment. M. Pasteur, in effect, has recently isolated a body which he calls 
laci'/c ferment, and which, in his opinion, is the principal cause of the lactic 
fermentation. It is a gray and flocculent substanc(.', which jirocceds, without 
doubt, from the caseine. The lactic fermentation, therefore, would be altogether 
analogous to the alcoholic fermentation but with another ferment. 

Willi regard to the viscous and butyric fermentations, &c., I have nothing to 
add to what is already known respecting these phenomena — which is very little. 
Respecting eremacausis (the slow combustion of organic substances by oxygen 
at the ordinary temperature) or putrefaction, we have already seen how it is 
induced, and how it is always accompanied with the production of ozone. 

It nnuains to speak now of the action of acids on organic bodies, for, in this 
action it has becai often su])posed that catalytic phenomena were distinguishable. 
When an organic substance is treated with an acid it often happens that this 
acid oxidizes it Avhile it is itself decomposed, such bci)ig the case when sugar, 
&c., is treated with azotic acid, sulphuric acid, &;c. At other tinujs the acid, 
or a derivative of the acid, combines with the body, either after having oxidized 
it or directly. We observe this when we treat cellulose with concentrated 
nitric acid. At other times, again, the oxide? of a radical compound is formed 
in the action of the acid on the organic body, with which the deoxidized 
acid combines, as may be seen when hyponitric acid reacts on the oxides of 
certain radical compounds which may become peroxidized, and themselves unite 
in this state with the nitrous acid, giving rise to nitrites ( IK) + AZ()^i=llO^AZO''.) 
In fine, when acids arc added to organic bases, or to alcohols, there arc formed 
salts, or compound ethers, which are also salts. In these two cases the acid 
replaces the Avater of the base or of the alcohol. There are, however, cases 
where acids occasion a change of a wholly different kind, and give rise to jiroducts 
which may be termed abnormal. 

Such is the case where; sulphuric acid acts on fecula or on cellulose producing 
sugar. In this case the influence of contact has been seen, and many 
chemists have suppgsed that the sulphuric acid acts only by its presence, and 
that the fecula combines wife-h a certain quantity of water to produce sugar. It 
is, however, not so ; the action of sulphuric acid on starch or cellulose ap- 
pears to be altogether analogous to the formation of ether by the action of 
this same acid on alcohol. In this latter case there is, as we know, the formation 
*)f an intermediary compound, sulpho-vinic acid, which, by the action of heat, 
separates into ether and free sulphuric acid. Now, sulphuric acid forms with 
starch or cellulose, an analogous compound, sulpJio-lignic acid, which, like 
sulpho-vinic acid," forms soluble salts with lime and barytes, and separates 
by ebullition into sugar and free sulphuric acid. The sulpho-liguic acid can- 
not be formed except at the ordinary temperature. If the temperature be raised 
we obtain other products, sulphuric acid is then decomposed, and produces, 
^vith th{! cellulose, &c., brown substances resembling huinus. 

The diastase of sprouted barley gives rise to the same phenomenon as the 
sulphuric acid in the former case, namely, the production of glucose, but this 
is accomplished in a diffei^ent manner. According to ;dl appearance the trans- 
formation is here direct. There is no intermediate combination ; but the cir- 
cumstances of that remarkable modification which the stai'ch undergoes from 
contact with the diastase are still very incom})letely known. It would seem, 
iiowever, that the diastase acts as v^ ferment, (as the ferment, for exaia})le, in 
the alcoholic fermentation;) and M. Magendic has observed in this connexion 
that blood, bile, urine, sperm, &:e., in a word, the other ferments act like 
the diastase. Starch, in these circumstances, is first transformed into dextrine, 
then into glucose. It is highly probable that hereafter it will be discovered 
that the presence of a third body is essential to this pheuomeiion, and that 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 409 

this last being better understood, will bo siisceptibb; of tlic same explanation 
as clLcmical reactions in general. 

It remains to examine the eftects produced by the oxygenated water of 
Thenard, and which arc usually regarded as catalytic phenomena. 

Oxygenated water is one of the most electro-negative bodies known ; hence 
it acts in all cases as an oxidizing and energetic aci'd. When placed in con- 
tact with the powder of platina a lively effervescence is observed, tlu; pLatina 
is not altered, all the oxygen of the oxygenated water is disengaged, and we 
obtain water, pure oxygen, and pure metal. This reaction is precisely what 
was to be expected : in effect the oxygenated water acts towards the platina 
as an acid ; it tends to oxidize the metal, that is to say, in this phonomenon 
the platina is electro-positive, the oxygenated water electro-negative. The 
platina tends to form a peroxide, but this oxide not being susceptible of being 
formed under these circumstances, the phenomenon of polarity takes place 
nevertheless, and the oxygen is disengaged. 

Th(; same thing occurs if we treat comminuted platina witli nitric acid. This 
acid, which is an energetic oxidant, like oxygenated 'water, is decomposed 
at a temperature much lower than if the platina were not present. I have 
observed lately that this phenomenon takes place witli certain sulphurcts, es- 
pecially with certain specimens of sulphuret of copper from the environs of 
Lake 15aikal, in Siberia, which were sent to me for analysis. If we take 
this sulphuret of copper, calcined and dry, and in a state of great division pour 
upon it concentrated nitric acid, and then heat with an alcoliol lamp, the 
nitric acid is decomposed, and gives forth ruddy vapors, Avithout attacking the 
sulphuret, and at a temperature much inferior to that at which nitric acid is 
decomposed by heat alone. If we would transform the sulphuret into a sulphate 
we must not operate in this manner, as we lose the acid without obtaining the 
desired effect. In order to oxidize the sulphuret we must ad4 the acid drop 
by drop whilst we are applying heat; the sulphuret is then actively attacked. 
Molybdenum, treated with oxygenated wat(u-, passes, on the contrary, to the 
acid state, as is the case also with arsenic, selenium, &:c., while silver, gold, 
mercury, palladium, rhodium, &c., &c., act in these circumstances like platina. 
In this action of platina and of metals in general, on oxygenated water, an 
extreme tenuity in the metal is an indispensable condition for obtaining a 
prompt reaction. This has been equally indicated in speaking of the action of 
divided platina, and it is the same in every chemical reaction, whatever it 
may be. 

The oxides which can be oxidized, (Ca', B«', Ca', ike.,) decompose 
oxygenated water in passing to the state of peroxides, (Ca, Bd, Cd, &c.) The 
oxides which cannot be oxidized may sometimes effect the decomposition 
of oxygenated water, because they are highly electro-positive in regard to it, 
and the phenomenon of polarity takes place. The peroxide of manganese, for 
example, caunot be oxidized, except in contact with a base with which 
the manganic acid produced may combine. When this peroxide is added to 
oxygenated water, manganic acid cannot be formed ; but oxygenated water, 
being a body but slightly stable and highly electro-negative in regard to M«, 
reacts on this peroxide and tends to oxidize it. The peroxide of manganese is 
then in the same situation with platina, silver, dec, cited above. 

The presence of a third body in phenomena of contact does not act solely 
by exciting a phenomenon of polarity, which, without the presence of the third 
body, would not occur, unless brought about by a high temperature. It often 
exercisQS, besides, a very marked inlluence on the products of the reaction, 
especially if we operate on organic bodies; thus: Take two small tubular 
retorts of the same; capacity, and jjlacc in the one tartaric acid, in the other 
tartaric acid and platina sponge ; then let the two retorts be heated at the 
same temperature, which is easily done by placing both in the same sand-bath. 



410 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT 

The first retort will, in these circumstances, yield gases and the ordinary em- 
pyreumatic products. The other, on the contrary, will give crystallized pro- 
ducts. This, however, is but one example in a thousand. In one case the 
reaction is more ready than in the other, consequently the products should be 
different. A body susceptible of yielding a gas by the action of heat will 
yield this gas at a temperature mixch lower — that is, more easily, Avhen it is 
mixed with another body which cannot combine with any of the elements 
submitted to experiment. 

Supposing that we submit to the action of heat a hinary body to which we 
add a third clement ; whether this third body combines with one of the elements 
of the binary body, or does not so combine, its presence will always facilitate 
the reaction which takes place, by the development of polarity in which this 
third body bears a part. 

That the exact knowledge of the modes of action of a third body may be- 
come of great utility to the chemist the following example, familiar to all, will 
show. To procure oxygen by means of the chlorate of potassa, we shall 
economize combustible matter by introducing a body foreign to the reaction, 
for instance, clippings of platina, sand, peroxide of manganese, &c., &c. 

It is some years since M. Millon remarked, that zinc dissolves much 
more rapidly, and produces at the same time much more hydrogen, when a 
metal less electro-positive is added to the sulphuric acid. This is the type of 
catalytic phenomena in general. A little of the chloride of platinum, mixed 
with the sulphuric acid, gives rise to a disengagement of hydrogen one 
hundred and fifty times stronger than that which the same surface of zinc would 
produce in the pure acid, of the same degree of concentration, and in the same 
time. This experiment is, as we see, a simple modification of another well 
known one, Avhich consists in surrounding the zinc with a wire of platina to 
accelerate the solution ; for the platinum of the chloride is precipitated on the 
zinc, and forms with it a voltaic element. 

Hydrochloric acid mixed with a little chloride of platinum dissolves lead and 
copper with a disengagement of hydrogen. The first dissolves it in this way 
when cold, the second only when heated, but the disengagement is as rapid 
with the zinc. 

Before concluding this memoir, we should endeavor to compare the relations 
of the phenomenon of polarity, with what is called chemical affinity. And in 
the first place, when we speak of polarity, we exjjress a fact verified by ex- 
periment — a fact which has nothing in common with the so-called "catalytic 
force, " of tohich it is impossible to verify a single inoperty. Every chemist 
knows that the phenomenon of polarity manifests itself in every chemical 
reaction. We have shown in the present paper that it manifests itself equally 
in catalytic phenomena. We verify polarity by direct experiment, as has been 
shown. This, then, is not a word exchanged for the word catalysis, but is a fact 
well established. 

We have already shown how much the phenomenon of polarity influences 
chemical reaction. Is it the cause of afiiuity, or is affinity itself a force sui 
generis 1 Borzelius remarked, in regard to the before-cited experiments of 
Millon, " These experiments show clearly that the greater or less affinity of the 
acid for the metal, and, reciprocally, is due to the more electro-positive state 
which results from the contact of the metal deposited ; and that it is this state 
which induces the affinity, but not inversely the affinity Avhich induces the 
electric state." In effect, one party thinks electricity or polarity produces 
chemical action, while another supposes that all electricity is produced by 
chemical action. Either explanation is simply absurd. Experiment shows 
that the phenomenon of polarity is an electrical phenomenon if you choose — 
accompanies chemical action cveryvjhere ; but we cannot thence conclude that 



STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA. OF CONTACT. 411 

it is the cause of the latter, just as we sometimes see electricity excited, without 
being able to assign to this electricity a chemical origin. 

We may say that in every case, without exception, an electric current may 
determine the combination or the decomposition of bodies, and polaritij seems 
to be an indispensable condition, in order that chemical action should manifest 
itself. Chemical affinity cannot be regarded as the cause of the polarity ; 
polarity cannot be regarded as the cause of the affinity. When, in heating a 
plate of bismuth soldered to a plate of antimony, electricity is produced, 
what is the cause of its production 1 Is it in the affinity of the bismuth for 
the antimony ] Certainly not ! Is it in the heat 1 We enter here upon con- 
siderations of a very high order, and which it is not competent for us to discuss 
on this occasion. Let us say, however, a few words respecting them. 

In all that has been said, we have employed the term force. Although 
it be now nearly demonstrated that nearly all force is but a molecular move- 
ment, and that, consequently, the idea Avhich we generally attach to the word 
force is inexact, yet the epoch has not arrived when we can suppress these 
terms in the language of science, and, at the same time, make ourselves intel- 
ligible. I have thus found myself compelled to employ them. In the remark- 
able theory of M. Grove on the correlation of physical forces, things are 
considered, according to all probability and verisimilitude, under their true 
point of view. Movement, Avhich is universal, manifests itself to us sometimes 
under one form, sometimes under another, in order to give rise to effects which 
Ave arc in the habit of attributing to particular forces. These forces, or, rather, 
these movements, may be transformed into other equivalent movements, 
according to the circumstances in which they are made to act. Thus it 
is that if We apply friction (movement) to a jDicce of dry wood, it is transformed 
into another movement which we call heat. If we apply friction to sealing-wax, 
the friction (movement) is transformed into current electricity. If we heat 
water a large quantity of the heat is transformed into a motive force, into 
movement. If Ave heat a plate of bismuth soldered to a plate of antimony, the 
heat is transformed into current electricity. In like manner, heat is transformed 
into light, light into heat, into electricity, into affinity, &c.; affinity into heat, into 
electricity, into light, &c., &c. There exists no "force" Avhich Ave cannot 
transform, equivalent for equivalent, into one or sCA^cral other "forces." These 
transformations are manifested throughout all nature, and Ave see Avliat Ave call 
"physical and chemical forces" transformed into "organic forces," and gov- 
erning the phenomena of life. Just as atoms combine or replace one another 
by equi\-alents, so are different movements or "forces" substituted, one for 
another, equivalent for cqtdralent. A given quantity of chemical action Avill 
ahvays give the same quantity of electricity ; a given quantity of electricity 
Avill, in its turn, give the same quantity of chemical action ; a given quantity 
of heat Avill always give the same quantify of motive force; an equi\-aleut of 
chemical action Avill always give an equivalent of heat, &;c., &c. 

In fine, CA-erything is connected or linked together in nature; move- 
ment, like matter, is universal ; its modificat'ons produce all that we regard as 
"forces" or effects of forces. For the details and experiments on which this 
striking theory is based, (and it is now admitted by most physicists,) we must 
refer our readers to the memoir of M. Grove,* of Avhich avc have a French 
translation from the learned pen of M. F. Moigno. But, from the few Avords 
Avhich have been said, it Avill, I think, be conceived hoAV heat can act to excite 
polarity and chemical action ; hoAv the latter, in its turn, can excite polarity and 
heat, without one of these "forces" being the cause, properly speaking, of the 
other ; how the movement of the barbs of a quill can act so as to produce 
explosion with fulminating powders, &c. 

* Correlation of physical forces. 



412 STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CONTACT. 



CONCLUSION AND CONCLUSIONS. 

Although many of the experiments cited in tliis memoir are my own, and 
others have been repeated and confirmed by myself on more than one occasion, 
I could have wished, nevertheless; to have added more in confirmation of the 
views whicli I have enunciated on the phenomena of contact. For, however 
conclusive the experiments cited may seem to myself, it is not certain that they 
will appear so to every one. But two things essential to all scientific research 
fail mo at this moment, and prevent me even from completing researches already 
commenced. For what concerns the present attempt, I trust that it has been 
demonstrated to a certain point : 

I. That the allotropic states of bodies, analogous to ozone, are dne to a 
phenomenon of polarity acting in special circmnstances, and having the effect 
of nnidering the body, whicli is the subject of exi)eriment, much more 
electro-negative, or more electro-positive, than it was ; and that the state which 
we call in chemistry the "nascent state of bodies" is nothing else but this 
allotropic state. Further, that all simple or compound bodies assume this 
state at the moment when they enter into combination, and at the moment 
when they abandon their combinations. 

II. That in general the phenomena attributed to the catalytic force, as well 
as those which every other chemical reaction presents, admits of a very simple 
explanation. 

III. That the facts observed and explained by the action of a force called 
force of contact, or catalytic force, are due to an electro-chemical phenomenon, 
known under the name of polarity, which, without being the cause of the 
chemical action, accompanies the latter in all cases, may be verified by direct 
experiment, and seems to be an essential condition of its manifestation. 

IV. That the force known imder the names of catalysis, force of contact, 
or catalytic force, is a pure creation of the imagination. 



ON ATOMS. 



ON ATOMS. 

B Y S I R JOHN II r- R S C II E I, . 

"I sing of atomB." — Rejected Addresses. 



Dialogue. — TTemiogencs et Hcrmiouo, interloquuntur. 

Ilerynione. — What strange people those G reeks were! T was reading tliis morn- 
ing about Dcmocritus,"who first tanglit the doctrine of atoms and a vacuum." I 
suppose he must have meant tliat there is such a thing as utterly empty space, 
and that here and there, scattered through it, are things called atoms, like dust 
in the air. But then 1 thought, "What are these atoms?" for if this be true, 
then, these are all the world, and the rest is — nothing ! 

Hirmogcnes. — Yes. That is the natural conclusion : unless there be some- 
thing that does not need space to exist in; or unless there be things that are not 
material substances ; or unless space itself be a thing : all which is deep meta 
physic, such as I am just now rather inclined to eschew. But, dear Ilcrmione, 
how am I to answer such a host of questions as you seem to have raised — all 
in a breath ? The (j! reeks ! Yes, they were a strange people — so ingenious, so 
e.xcursive, yet so self-fettered ; so vague in their notions of things, yet so 
rigidly definite in their forms of expressing them. Extremes met in thrm. In 
their pliiloso[iIiy they grovelled in the dust of words and phrases, till, suddenly, 
out of their utter confusion, a bound launched them into a new sphere. There 
18 a creature, a very humble and a very troublesome one, Avhich reminds me of 
the Greek mind. You might know it for a good Avhile as only a fidgety, rest- 
less, and rather aggressive companion, when, behold, hop ! and it is awa.y far 
ofiF, having realized at one spring a new arena and a new experience. 

Ilcrmione. — Don't! But a truce to the Greek mind with its narrow pedantry 
and its boundless excursiveness. 'I'he excursiveness was innate, the pedantry 
superinduced — the result of their perpetual rhetorical conflicts and literary com- 
petitions. I have read the fifth book of Euclid and something of Aristotle ; so 
you need not talk to me on that theme. Do tell me something about these 
atoms. I declare it has quite excited me, Specially because it seems to have 
something to do with the atomic theory of Dalton. 

Ilermogenes. — Iliggins, if you please. But the thing, as you ^ay, is as old as 
Democritus, or perhaps older ; for Leucippus, Dcmocritus's master, is said to 
have taught it to him. Nay, there is an older authority still, in the personage 
(as near to an abstraction as a traditional human being can be) Moschus (not he 
of the Idyls.) Ikit the fact is that the notion of the atom — the indivi.nhle, 
the thing that has place, being, and power — is an absolute necessity of the 
human thinking mind, and is of all ages and nations. It underlies all our 
notions of being, and starts up, jwr se, whenever we come to look closely at the 
intimate objective nature of tilings, as much as space and time do in the subjec- 
tive. You have dabbled in German metaphysics, and know the distinction I 
refer to. 

Hermione. — You don't mean to say that we are nothing but atoms ? — Place ! 
being ! power ! Why, that is I, it is you, it is all of us. Nay, nay. This is 
going too fast. 



414 ON ATOMS. 

Hermogenes. — Perhaps it is. — (You have forgot thought, hy-the-by, and will.) 
But I am not going to make a single hop quite so far. We shall divide that 
into two or three jumps, and loiter a little in the intermediate resting-places. 
But, to go back to your atoms and a vacuum. What does a vacuum mean ? 

Herviione. — Vacuimi ? Why, emptiness, to be sure ! I mean empty space. 
Space where no tJiinq is. I am not so very sure that I can realize that notion. 
It is like the abstract idea of a lord mayor that Pope and Atterbury talk about; 
and in getting rid of the man, the gold chain and the custard are apt to start up 
and vindicate their claim to a place in the world of ideas. And yet I do mean 
something by empty space. I mean distance — I mean direction : that steeple is 
a mile off", and not here "where we sit ; and it lies southeast of us, and not north 
or Avest. And jf the steeple Avere aAvay, I should have just as clear a notion of 
its place as if I saw it there. There now ! But then distance and direction 
imjily two places. So there are three things anyhow that belong to a vacuum ; 
and let me tell you, it is not everything that three things positively intelligible 
can be "predicated" of (to speak your jargon.) 

Hermogenes. — Dear me, Hcrmione ! how can you twit me so? Jargon! 
Every specialty has its "jargon." Even the law, that system of di'eams, has 
its "jargon" — the more so, to be sure, because it is a system of dreams, or 
rath(n- of nightmares, (God forgive mc for saying so !) Well, then, 3'ou. seem 
to have tolerably clear notions about a vacuum — at least, I cannot make them 
clearer. ]\Iuch clearer, anyhow, than Descartes had, Avho maintained that if 
it were not for the foot-rule between them, the two ends of it Avould be in the 
same place. Still, there is much to be said about that same Vacuum, especially 
when contrasted Avith a Plenum, which means (if it mean anything) the exact 
opposite of a racuujn. In other Avords, a "jam," a "blocl^," a "fix." But, on 
the Avhole, I lean to a vacuum. The other idea is oppressiA'e. It does not allow 
one to brealhe. There is no elbow-room. It seems to realize the notion of that 
great human squeeze in Avhicli we should be landed after a hundred generations 
of unrestrained propagation.* One does not understand hoAV anything could 
get out of the Avay of anything else. 

Hermione. — Do come back to our dear atoms. I love these atoms : the deli- 
cate little creatures ! There is something so fanciful, so fairy-like about them. 

Hermogenes. — Well ; they have their idiosyncrasies. , I mean they obey the 
laAvs of their being. They comport themselves according to their primary con- 
stitution. They conform to the fixed rule implanted in them in the instant of 
their creation. The3^ act and react on each other according to the rigorously 
exact, mathematically determinate relations laid down for them ah initio. They 
work out the preconceived scheme of the universe by their — their 

Hcrmione — Their 1 Stop, stop ! my dear Hermogenes. Where Avill you 
land us 1 Obey laws ! Do they know them ? Can they remember them ? 
How else can tliey obey them ? Comport themselves according to their primary 
constitution ! Well, that is so far intelligible : they are as they are, and not as 
they are not. Conform to a fixed rule ! But then they must be able to apply 
the rule as the case arises. Act and react according to determinate relations ! 
I suppose you mean relations with each other. But hoAv are they to knoAv those 
relations ? Here is your atom A, there is your atom B, (I speak as you have 
taught me to speak,) and a long interval between them, and no link of connection. 

* For tlic benefit of those who discuss the subjects of Population, War, Pestilence, Famine, 
«S:c.. it n;ay be as well to mention that the number of human beings living at the end of the 
hundreJtb generation, commencing from a single pair, doubling at each generation, (say in 
thirty years,) ar. 1 allowing for each man, woman, and child an average space of four feet in 
height, and one toot square, Avould form a A'crtical colunm, having for its base the irvhoie sur- 
face of the caith and sea spread out into a plane, and for its height 3,674 times the sun's dis- 
tance from 41r>. ea) th ! The number of human strata thus piled one on the other Avould amount 
to 4GO,7'JU,UUU,UuO,000. 



ON ATOMS. 415 

How is A to know where B is, or in what relation it stands to B ? Poor dear 
atoms ! I pity them. 

Hermogenes. — You may spare your sympathy. They are absolutely hlind 
and passive. 

Hcrmione. — Blind and passive ! The more the wonder how they come to 
perceive those same relations you talk about, and how they "comport them- 
selves," as you call it [act, as I should say) on that perception. I have a better 
theory of the universe. 

Hermogenes. — Tell it me. 

Hennione. — In the beginning was the nebulous matter, or Akasch. Its bound- 
less and tumultuous waves heaved in chaotic wildness, and all was oxygen, and 
hydrogen, and electricity. Such a state of things could not possibly continue; 
and as it could not possibly be \vorse, alteration was here synonymous with im- 
provement. Then came 

Hermogenes. — Now it is my turn to saj- , Stop ! stop ! Solvuntur risu tabiilfB. 
Do let us be serious. Remember, it was you who began the conversation. Je 
vie s'u/s seulement laisse entrainer. The tact is, I have only so far been trying 
you, and I see you ai-e apt. There lies the real difficulty about these atoms. 
These same "relations" in which they stand to one another are anything but 
simple ones. They involve all the "ologies" and all the "ometries," and in 
these days we know something of what that implies. Their movements, their 
interchanges, their "hates and loves," their "attractions and repulsions, " their 
"correlations," their what not, are all determined on the very instant. There is 
no hesitation, no blundering, no trial and error. A problem of dynamics which 
would drive Lagrange mad, is solved instantcr "Sohntur amh/dando.^' A differ- 
ential equation which, algebraically written out, would belt the earth, is integra- 
ted in an eye-twinkle ; and all the numerical calculation worked out in a way to 
frighten Zerah Colburn, George Bidder, or Jedediah Buxton. In short, these 
atoms are most wonderful little creatures. 

Herjnione. — Wonderful, indeed ! Anyhow, they must have not only good 
memories, but astonishing presence of mind, to be always ready to act, and 
always to act without mistake, according to "the primary laws of their being," 
in every complication that occurs. 

Hermogenes. — Thou hast said it ! That is just the point I knew you must 
come to The ]iresence of mind is what solves the whole difficvdty ; so far at 
least as it brings it within the sphere of our own consciousness, and into con- 
formity with our own experience of what action is. We know nothing but as 
it is conceivable to us from our own mental and bodily experience and conscious- 
ness. When Ave know Ave act, Ave are also conscious of Avill and effort ; and 
action Avithout AA'ill and effort is to us, constituted as we are, unrealizable, un- 
knoAA'ablo, inconceivable. 

Hrmione. — That AA'ill do. My head begins to turn round. But I hardly 
fancied Ave had got on such an interesting train. We will talk of this again. 
More to-morroA7. Noav to the feast of floAvers the children are preparing. 



416 ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 



Oi\ THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 



BY J. P. LESLEY 

LIBRARIAN OF THE AMERICAN PIIU.OSOPHICAL SOCIETY. 



Libraries are of two Idnds, general and special. The one now catalogued* is 
of the most general description, and affords an oppoi-tunity for some thorouglily 
pliilosopliical arrangement, based upon an analysis of human knowledge which 
will leave nothing disregarded. However imperfectly the attempt to accomplish 
the object may succeed in this or other instances, failure will only stimulate to 
renewed endeavor. A reasonable arrangement of every collection in the hands 
of man is a call of the soul, to be obeyed. A merely empirical adjustment of 
minerals to the drawers which contain them, or of books to the siielves on which 
they stand, fortuitously numbered as they are obtained, and indexed alphabeti- 
cally for the convenience of servants, justly embarrasses, depresses, and disgusts 
the thinker. 

Two arrangements of a catalogue, systematic or raisonnde, present themselves 
at once for selection : the analytic and the synthetic. The synthetic corresponds 
with the teachings of nature and art, by the experience of which we are in- 
structed in items to the knowledge of the whole. The analytic corresponds 
with the method of the schools, and of their reliquiae, books ; which state prin- 
ciples, and then describe their applications; announce laAvs, and then show their 
utility; first furnish knowledge in its most advanced or abstract condition, and 
aftervv^ards embody it in illustrations. Face to face with nature, the form of 
man receives its noblest inspiral iarii but by libraries of books the spirit of man 
obtains its largest information. 

The book of nature and the book of the library being thus opposed, the one 
is not consulted in' the same manner as the other. The book of nature begins 
with its iUustrations, follows wiih descriptive text, sketches out indistinctly a 
few broad statements, suggests, a summary, and omits the index altogether. 
The book of the library, on the contrary, carefully places its table of contents 
in the front, makes of its pref see' an epitome, and of its body an argument, 
leaving notes and pictures to be consulted, at the pleasure of the reader, at the 
close. In tliese antagonistic gymnasia two antagonistic tribes are bred, mere 
scholars and mere naturalists, characterized by opposite tendencies : by the loose- 
ness with which the former state facts, and the pertinacity with Avhich they 
maintain doctrines ; by the scrupulous narrowness witli which the latter examine 
things, and the facility with which they adopt new theories. To be a mere 
scholar is to run the risk of becoming inaccurate in flicts and dogmatic in 
judgment. To be a mere naturalist is to become materialistic and unimaginative, 
narrow-minded and pedantic. 

The true philosopher resides alternately in nature and in the library. Writing 
in the first and reading in the second, he weaves shuttle-like the stuff of thought 
out of which he and his fellows array themselves in goodness, truth, and beauty. 
But of these two homes, the philosopher has two very diiferent stories to tell; 
he regards them with very different sentiments. The one is ancestral — he was 
born into it and belongs to it; the other he makes proper to his hand. The 
philosopher must accept his rural residence as it grows, enclosing him with 

^ Library of the American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 417 

powers of arrangement regardless of his will, yet amiably inviting his attention. 
But his urban residence, the library, he arranges as the master of it, according 
to his own convenience, to correspond with his own necessities and to illustrate 
his tastes. The character of the library is therefore determined by the principles 
of art, not nature. 

The general library, therefore, is a picture of a generous intellect, well stored, 
well ordered, and open to enlargement in all directions. 

Its comjjartments represent the grand natural divisions of knowledge. 

Its classilication should be in an ascending and advancing series. 

Its treasures, like those of memory, should be preserved in the natural order 
of time, and the natural order of space should be ancillary and complementary, 
wherever applicable. 

These are the maxims by which the cataloguing of the library of the American 
Philosophical Society has been governed. Eight principal classes carry from the 
universal to the special, from the abstract to the concrete, from the inorganic to 
the organic, and from matter to mind. Each class begins with the theory of it.« 
subject and follows with its practice. Excepting the first, which represents tho 
abstract conception of knowledge itself with its universal applications, each 
class advances tlie theme beyond a point at which the class preceding leaves it. 
More scientific names might be invented for these classes, but only by having 
recourse to a pseudo-classical, harsh, unknown compound terminology, and 
therefore the names which have been adopted are those best known and in 
common use, as follows : 

1. GENERAL SCIENCE. 

1. Encyclopaedias, &c. 1^. Learned Societies. 1^ Catalogues of Libraries. 

2. THE MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES. 

2. Mathematics. 2^. Astronomy, &c. 2^. Geodesy, &c. S''. Physic*. 

3. THE INORGANIC SCIENCES. 

3. Chemistry. 3'. Mineralogy. 3^. Mining. 3*. Geology nnd Pabrontology. 

4. THE ORGANIC SCIENCES. 

4. Biology. 4^. Botany, &:c. 4^. Zoology, &c. 4*. IMcdicine, &c. 

5. THE HISTORICAL SCIENCES. 

5. Chronology. 5'. Ethnology. 5". Archaeology. 5*. History. 

G. THE SOCIAL SCIENCES. 

6. Sociology. 6^. Manufactures. G''. Commerce. C, War. G^ La^r. 

7. THE SPIRITUAL SCIENCES. 

7. Language 7^. Belles-Lettres. 7^. Fine Arts. 7*. Logic, Sec. 

T". Education, &c. 7''. Religion. 

8. PERSONAL SCIENCE. 

8. Biography. 

The divisions of the eight classes arc naturally made by separating the pure 
i?ciences from their applications, and by grouping the latter according to their 
relationships. Thus the mathematical sciences are divided into — Mathematics 
pure (2^); mathematics applied to astronomy (2^) ; mathematics applied to 
geodesy (2^); mathematics applied to mechanics and physical questions gener- 
ally (21) 

27 8 



418 ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 

It may be thought that this order ought to be reversed if the rule of an upward 
advancing series be inflexible and absolute; and that the first application of 
pure mathematics should be to physics or pure mechanics; the second to 
geodesy ; and the third to astronomy or celestial mechanics. But a little con- 
sideration will teach that the first, most common and closest practical application 
of pure mathematics has been to astronomy and navigation; then to geodesy; 
and then to the mechanic arts ; whereas physics proper have been based hitherto 
much more on experiment than on calculation. The rule of an upward advanc- 
ing series is indefinite in one of its factors, if not in both; for questions of 
dignity among the sciences are not always easy to settle; nor can astronomy 
maintain so easily as once she could her right to precedency at court before 
geodesy, now that the personal characters of the planets and fixed stars have 
been so critically discussed. The rule of common usage, therefore, Avliich is 
also the rule of convenience to some extent, must have some power given it 
over these arrangements; especially where, as in the case in point, still further 
subdivisions must be made to reach the last or most concrete applications of the 
science pure. Astronomy is indissolubly connected with meteorology, and finds 
its practical utility in navigation. Geodesy cannot be separated widely from 
geography; while this last involves voyages and travels, and this again maps 
and charts, which are the direct objects of geodesy. No less does the division 
ijf physics create, if the library be extensive, the distinct sections of light, 
heat, magnetism, electricity, &c. 

But there is another reason for the order adopted. A third and most important 
rule of arrangement remains to be stated. It will be seen that certain subjects 
arc essentially transitional, and must be placed at the end of the class to which 
they belong, for the reason that they carry the train of development over to the 
beginning of the class next following. 

Thus, in Class II, that of the mathematical sciences; division 2*, that of 
])hysics, stands last because the next Class III, that of the inorganic sciences, 
begins with chemistry. In Class III, division 3\ geology comes last, because it 
carries with it palaeontology, mediating between the inorganic and the organic 
world. In Class IV, division 4^*, human physiology comes last, because it 
brings into view the close and consummation of the Avliole organic system, 
man, and thereby prepares the way for historical research. 

Leaving the first or natural series, and coming to the second or human series, 
we find the same rule reigning. In Class V, that of the historical sciences 
proper, Avhieh still regards mankind from a naturalistic point of view as inhab- 
iting the earth like the other orders of created beings, but wilh peculiar and 
liigher relationships to it, namely, the relationships of time, progress, develop- 
ment, and accomplishments, and therefore commences with chronology, it is 
plain that division S'*, that of history proper, must follow ethnography and 
archaeology, instead of preceding them, because it alone can introduce the 
discussion of society. 

In Class VI, that of the social sciences, regarding mankind with still in- 
creasing respect — no longer as a mere herd of intelligent animals spread abroad 
at first, and afterwards migrating to and fro ujDon the earth by virtue of cosmical 
influences, and absolutely under their direction, but as groups of thoughtful 
people, endowed with the genius of arts and arms, and skilled in manufactures, 
commerce, Avar, and law, it is evident that these four applications of human 
genius in society maintain the ascending movement, and pass us seriously from 
this over to the next. Legal science, division G', stands last in order, because 
related nighest, through language, to the spiritual sciences, which occupy the 
seventh plane. 

In Class VII, its last division, 7*^, that of religious science, i^ not merely the 
culmination of this particular class, considered as the range of man's instincts of 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 419 

eolf-expression : language, belles-lettres, fine arts, rhetoric, logic, education, 
and philanthropy; but is a worthy engrossment and presentation of all the 
classes gone before, and the fittest introduction to Class VIII, biography, the 
science of the individual man -per se, of the microcosm, the summary and con- 
clusion of knowledge, the return of the circle into itself. 

Regarded as divisions and subdivisions of human knowledge, it is very likely 
that other minds consulting this catalogue will take a different view of the relative 
value of these classes and divisions, and therefore of their respective claims to 
the prominent places which they occupy. But there is not one of them that has 
not been called and is not well recognized as a separate branch of science, having 
societies specially founded for its investigation and text-books written for its 
special elucidation. The list also seems complete. There may be question of 
the arrangement in certain parts, but the uninterrupted progression of the whole 
will be allowed on the ground of the accepted hierarchy of the numerical, inor- 
ganic, organic, mental, moral, and religious worlds. No argument can change 
this order of sequence and dignity. 

Certain exigencies of the librarian, nevertheless, or of the student, and certain 
inosculations, interferences, or cross-relationships among the many members of 
the corpus scientiarum, cause perplexity, and introduce an apparent element of 
discord. But when the principal instances of its appearance have been mentioned, 
they will be seen to cause no serious disturbance in the order of the whole, and 
may be compared to those threads of shade which throw themselves across the 
colors of the spectrum, only to suggest new revelations of the harmony which 
reigns throughout the universe of light. 

The following are the principal suggestions to be made in view of the practi- 
cally abnormal occurrences to be expected in this arrangement of a library. 

Class I. Under societies' proceedings (1'^) a complete list of learned societies, 
whose publications are represented in any degree in the libi-ary, is given. But as 
many of these societies devote their publications to special sciences, the detailed 
description of their issues must appear under such special heads. In such an 
immense collection of these issues as that now making by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution at Washington, it is found necessary to devote one entire hall of the library 
to their reception, and, in fact, to organize a separate department of correspond- 
ence. Even with smaller collections, this is by far the best arrangement for the 
librarian. But for the student it is evidently more desirable to have the issues of 
all botanical societies in the alcove devoted to botany, all those of medical socie- 
ties in the alcove of medicine, all those of antiquarian societies in archaeology, 
those of historical societies in the cases of history, &c. But for the same reason 
it is proper to classify the titles of their issues under corresponding heads in the 
.catalogue raisonnee. If, at the same time, the titles of all general societies and 
references to the titles of all special societies be resumed under the division (1^) 
of learned societies, a couj) d' ee.il is obtained of the learned world. In some 
few instances double entries must be made of so-called special societies, such as 
those of natural history, the titles of which must be referred to under botany, 
and under zoology also. But they are few in number. 

Class II. Meteorology is a science with a literature of its own, and must 
therefore have a place of its own ; but its disjecta memhra give much trouble, 
.ind would be thrown by a close criticism into several divisions or subdivisions. 
Its observations are almost always made in connexion with astronomy; some; 
of its meteors are cosmical, and come under a sub-section of astronomy (2^"); 
others are atmospheric, and come under another sub-section of astronomy (2^") ; 
others are of a so-called physical kind, and would come under magnetism, &c., 
(2'*) ; others are mineralogical, and connected Avith geological phenomena, and 
would come under 3^ and 3*. It has been placed in this class and made a cor- 
relative branch of its second division with astronomy, because of their practical 
:>onnexion in the observatory, and because of their literal connexion in the 



420 ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS, 

proceedings and transactions of academies and societies. Magnetism would 
follow it into the same position were it not for tlie fact that all the earlier 
literature of magnetism is bound up with that of light, heat, and electricity, 
and the other subjects of physics so called; and the only practical connexion 
that it maintains with astronomy and meteorology, that of the observatory, is 
not universal, and is not so close as that which it maintains with geodesy. 

Navigation also is so connected with astronomy and meterology that it finds 
its proper place with them. As a science it is not to be confounded with the 
arts in which it has become embodied, even the special art of ship-sailing, which 
lies neai'cst to it. Its enlargement in modern times with special practical refer- 
ence to steam (G^), and its more general relationship to commerce {6^), has 
caused tlie titles of a few of its books to be duplicated under those heads. 

Mechanics, in the order of sciences, should come under mathematics; as 2*, 
but owing to the number of books which go into the details of machinery and 
describe processes, it has been placed with applied mechanics, under manufac- 
tures (G^). "When the arrangement was first made out, 2* was called mechanics, 
or technology, and 2^ physics; but after a multitude of cards had been written 
with the latter mark upon them, and still none appeared for pure technology, or 
only one or two, while many were observed to require close connexion with 
manufactures, the mistake was unfortunately committed of suppressing the 
division 2* entirely. No complete arrangement, however, can be made with- 
out it. 

Civil engineering occupies an anomalous station. Its correlate among the 
scientific arts is geodesy (2'^); among the mechanic arts, architecture (7-'). 
Works on civil engineering, as a science, are extremely few, and these few ought 
certainly to form a subdivision either with geodesy or with architecture. Yet 
after trial in both places they were finally grouped with a variety of other kindred 
matter under manufactures (G^). For to this apparently alien locality had been 
also banished the numerous reports on railroads, canals, and Avorks on steam, 
under the pressure of a hardly describable convenience, which only those will 
understand who are obliged to handle masses of such literature. The conveni- 
ence here obeyed was, however, a true index of the natural relationships which 
this whole branch of literature sustains to the class of the social sciences and 
arts. But the very epithet of civil, applied to this kind of engineering, places 
it in the sixth class, with the same certainty that mining engineering goes intx) 
the third. 

Class III. Chemistry, as the abstract science of molecular life, must be con- 
sidered the mathematics of the inorganic material world ; and it is only at first 
confusing that the name (which cannot now be changed) means also the practical 
applications of this knowledge, and all that flows from it, to the arts of life. 
Chemistry may be as necessary to medicine and to manufactures as to metal- 
lurgy; yet it will not be doubted by any man of science that in a correct 
classification chemistry and metallurgy Avill go together, and with mineralogy 
and geology; and will leave medicine and manufactures to find their own, per- 
haps very distant places, for themselves. Medicine will carry pharnjaceutics with 
it, and under manufactures will go dyeing, salt-making, soap-boiling, and a 
hundred other chemical arts of common life ; but chemistry will still maintain 
its true position as the opening division of the class of the inorganic sciences, 
M'ith two chief subdivisions into inorganic and organic chemistry. 

Mining engineering might, with some propriety, be grouped with mineralogy 
in 3^ as agriculture is w-ith botany in 4^. But this place is preoccupied hy 
metallurgy, between Avhich and geology the department of mining engineering 
practically and naturally interferes. It has therefore been made a division by 
itself, 3\ 

PaJaeontology, merely as a transition from the study of the inorganic to tbe 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 421 

study of the organic, might be placed either tit the cud of the cue or at the 
beginniug of the other class. Its essential spirit allies it with Class IV of t)ie 
organic world. Its literature, however, is so entirely geological that no room 
is left for questioning, and it cannot even form a separate division, but nmst 
be grouped Avith geology, in 3^. 

Class IV. Natural history (4^) should be called biology, or the science of 
organic life, as chemistry is the science of inorganic life. Its specifications 
follow in botany (4^ a), zoology (4'' a), and human physiology (4'* a), with 
which again are grouped their practices in life, agriculture (4^ a), acclimation 
(4^ b), and surgery, medicine, &c., (4' u.) But there are many books of min- 
gled botany and zoology, especially those written in or previous to the revival 
of natural scie'nce in the eighteenth century, which either discuss the nature 
of life, or systematize the phenomena of life in so general a way that it seems 
best to retain the old name for the science of organic life in general for the first 
division of the class, and to put all such memoirs and synopses into it. 

It would have been easy to have adopted the name of physiology for this 
leading division, had it not become engaged to a special branch of biology, 
although some have endeavored to distinguish physiology from human physi- 
ology. . The name, zoology, has been still more closely confined to a specialty, 
and cannot now be released to assume its natural place at the head of the sciences 
of organic life. Natural history, therefore, vague and unsatisfactory as the 
name is, seems to be the best within our reach to designate not only purely 
biological works, but works of general description and classification. Its sub- 
divisions, then, ought to be into three, natural history societies' publications, 
biological treatises, and principles of classification of genera and species. 

Acclimation (4'' b), with the few books treating of it, was at first considered 
only an insignificant or accidental part of agriculture. But having attained the 
)-ank of a self-sustaining science, lackeyed by one of the most powerful societies 
in France, la Societe Zoologique d'Acclimatation, it must be allowed to assume 
its normal j)lace beside zoology, making this fourth class the most symmetrical 
one of the eight. 

An apparent anomaly, however, will be noticed by naturalists in the order of 
subjects under some of the divisions, such as botany and zoology; they de- 
scend instead of ascending. But this is an inherent and unconquerable difficulty 
in the sciences themselves, forcing itself upon the classification of their books. 
In geology, especially, the order of time and of naming description is from lower 
to higher rocks; but the order of illustration and of minute description is from 
above downwards, both in nature, in the field-book, and on the printed page. 
Hugh Miller has made it an argument for the orthodoxy of the fall of man and 
eternal damnation, that nature involves this very anomaly, and has seen herself 
obliged by the creative destiny to usher in her several creations of higher and 
liigher types per salliim, only to mortify herself with the sight of their relajises 
into degradation and decrepitude, followed by extinction. 

Class V. With the completion of the physico-organic we enter the organo- 
spiritual range of sciences. And here is encountered perhaps the principal 
difficulty in developing the whole theme on a consistently advancing and ascend- 
ing scale. We have seen it take root in the abstract soil of number, form its 
stem and branches of the inorganic world, blossom with forms of organic life, 
and bear its fruit in man. There remains the discussion of the varieties, the 
uses, and the reproduction of this fruit. A new theme thus arises out of the 
body of the old, like a star-fish from a jelly-fish, to repeat, with a distincter and 
nobler pronunciation, the fading outlines of the mother theme. The practical 
question may be put in several ways. 

We have ceased to regard mankind physiologically as animal. How shall Ave 
now consider man as ])ersonal? Shall we consider him, first, intellectually as a 
mechanic, then asthetically as an artist, then morally as an immortal ? Many 



422 ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 

would prefcT this order; and it has an outward show of regular development. 
But, when examined closely, it is seen to confuse the natural system. It is 
empirical. It establishes a doubtful precedency for one kind of art before another. 
It leaves several chief heads, such as law and philanthropy, to say nothing- of 
political economy and the whole historical department, unprovided for, and is 
therefore incomplete. 

To state the question in another way : Having considered mankind in nature, 
shall we next consider mankind in society, and afterwards the individual person 1 
This also, although a reasonable order, is practically too large and crude. Some- 
thing moi'e specific and precise is needful. 

Having considered mankind as a physiological idea, correlative with but 
generically (or ordinally) distinct from and superior to the rest, and in fact closing 
up the statement of the whole organic world, we pass to the consideration of the 
realizations of this highest physiological idea in time and in space, Avhich are 
its two most abstract and universal formula). In other Avords, having described 
the earth, and its genera and species of inhabitants, and mankind as one of 
these, we arrive at the description of the relations which this mankind holds to 
the world so inhabited — relations first of time and also of space. Now then 
come u^) in proper series all those questions of the origin and the migrations of 
human races, to settle which exist the sciences of chronology, ethnology, 
archaeology, mythology, and general history. That these questions involve 
discussions of intellectual and spiritual phenomena is true, but only by the way, 
and incidentally. Their sciences are essentially humauo-terrestrial, and only 
prepare the Avay for the nobler social and moral sciences. Chronology (5') leads 
off, because it is the mathematics of the class, and on its deductions ethnology 
(5^) relies. Archaeology (5^ a) follows, bringing forward with it, and retaining 
at its side, its protege mythology (5^ b), in spite of the kindred ties between 
the latter and religion (7^). History (5"^) sums up the whole, and invites atten- 
tion to the next great group. 

The only serious difficulty met with in reducing these ideas to practice occurs 
in the matter of historical documents (5* c), which form so large a collection in 
this and other libraries. Their proper place, in the most perfect system, is not 
exactly with general history, for they are chiefly the records of single acts and 
individual lives, and illustrate much higher relationships than that of man with 
earth. But, on the other hand, the distinction between history and its docu- 
ments is obscure. Historical text-books, monographs of particular eras, reigns, 
and individual events, graduate insensibly into pamphlet forms ; while bound 
volumes of historical addresses, rare political squibs and speeches in Congress 
or in Parliament, can, after all, stand nowhere in a library so usefully and 
naturally as on the shelves of history. 

Class VI. Sociology (6^), including, of course, statistics, holds the same relation 
to the sciences of allairs in the world of men (on which we now enter) that 
mathematics holds to the sciences of measurement in the world of number, that 
chemistry holds as the science of molecular arrangement in the Avorldof matter, 
and that biology holds to the sciences of individuality in living beings. Further- 
more, its relation to the Avorld of the present is the same as that of chronology 
(5') to the Avorld of the past. Its questions which now meet us are those of man 
with man. It leaves to the last-named class all those questions of preliminary 
fact respecting man and the earth. It takes the past for granted, and proceeds 
to determine the values of societies of men, considering their status on the 
earth, their accumulations of industry, the wealth of nature at their command, 
the energetic forces of invention and association, and the intelligent self-con- 
struction and self-preservation of society. Manufactures (6"^), commerce (G'^), 
war (G^), and law (G*'), are its four groups of phenomena, coming in their natural 
order of advancing intelligence. The legal science is the logical consummation 
of this class, as religion concludes the next. , 



ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 42 o 

Simple as is this arraugement in tlie whole, there arc many obstacles to its 
perfect application in detail, but none of them insurmountable. 

Financial science, for instance, including- pamphlets on free trade and tariff, 
stands intermediate bcitween manufactures and commerce, dealing with both. 
Its treatment is, however, necessaril}^ fundamental, involving the most recondite 
principles of sociology. It is sociology in one of its governmental aspects. It 
has, in all ages, been considered as the main body of the science of government. 
It is in fact political economy. Unfortunately for the world, but fortunately for 
the arrangement of libraries, benevolence and religion are not considered suffi- 
ciently allied to politics to make any close connexion between the sixth and 
seventh classes necessary, except through law and language. 

There is still another reason for throwing finance into the first and general 
division of political economy (G^), as books which cannot go either into botany 
or zoology are placed in natural history. 

Manufactures and the mechanic arts (6^), as has been already said above, are 
grouped together, and involve the building of steam-engines, steamboats, canals, 
and railroads, and therefore the discussion of steam as a poAver. 

For a similar reason, under commerce (6"') come the subjects of money, coins, 
and medals, although the science of money value belongs with finance in jjolitical 
economy, and medals ought to go into archfeology and history. 

Legislation is in like manner grouped with law (G''), although it carries a far 
wider range, and is, in fact, the science of applied sociology — the effort to 
embody social ideas of every hind in statute form. Its relation to history, also. 
is very intimate. 

While this sixth class is apparently the simplest of all in its arrangement, ir 
is in reality the most confused and difficult to adjust, as it is by far the most, 
important of all in the number of its titles. 

Class VII. The class of sciences of which language forms the first division 
(7M> places us, on leaving the world of the social sciences, in the Avorld of man',^ 
highest and largest relationships — as an individual, with other beings as indi- 
viduals, and M'ith ideas as if they were individual beings. Sociology is the 
language of societies; language is the sociology of man's allied intelligences. 
The science of language is the mathematics of the soul. Language, as the 
analogue of pure mathematics, is the science of man's power to express his 
thoughts and feelings. Its ajD^^lications, therefore, are to belles-lettres (7^), the 
fine art3 (7'*), ethics (7^), education (7''), and worship or religion (7*^.) These 
are all parts of speech. They are the utterances of successively higher and 
higher elemental and essential forces of the being. Contracting their areas as 
they ascend, they terminate in a highest point, where the one man regards the 
one God. This is the end of the sciences. Here is no more language, but 
silence. Nothing can follow but retrospection and personal narration, which is 
biography, destined to stand by itself, as Class VIII, at the end, as general 
science stood by itself, as Class I, at the beginning. 

Under ethics (7**) are put books of metaphysics, so called for the convenience 
of the consultcr. They strictly belong in language, being nothing else than 
books of the natural history of the mind; but no one would be likely to look 
for them there. Some may object that metaphysics has not been named the first 
division of the class of spiritual sciences. If the word had not been perverted 
from its best and widest meaning, and reduced to the denomination of a specialty, 
the mere classification of the faculties of the mind, it might have stood in that 
position. But even then the symmetry of the arrangement would liaA-e been 
lost — the opening of language, the advance through poetry, sculpture, music, 
and logic, to ethics and the works of virtue, to metaphysical understanding, to 
Christian faith and hope, and to the personal intercourse with God in praise and 
prayer. 

Under education (7''), the instruction of the deaf and dumb, the blind, and 



424 ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 

the idiotic, are placed with that of other kinds ; but the treatment of the hope- 
lessly insane could not reasonably be placed anywhere but with medicine, in 4*. 
This is one of the cases of forcible divorce of classes of books commonly kept 
together. 

Prison discipline, also, (which some might expect to find in the social class, 
VI,) and, in fact, philanthropy in general, is grouped with education (7^'). 
Others might insist upon making a distinct division ; but any one who handles 
the literatures of both classes will find it practically impossible to separate them 
more widely. 

After this analytical statement of its genesis, it is only necessary to reproduce 
the whole scheme before the reader's eye and leave him to make what use of 
it he can. It is no just objection to any good arrangement of a libi-ary that it 
requires study to be used. It Avould be unskilful, indeed, if it did not. Students 
of books must learn the contents of each book by studying the author's arrange- 
ment. How much more needful to learn the contents of a library by a careful 
analysis of its departmeu.ts ! It is the librarian's duty to save a large part of this 
labor to the cousulters of the library, by a more complete and conscientious 
analysis than any they can find time to make. The least that they can do is to 
become accustomed to this analysis when made. Libraries are commonly 
arranged without, or jjrevious to, any analysis, and in obedience to local accidents 
or temporary expediency; and, in the case of those which crowds of readers 
throng, it is not to be so much wondered at. But in quiet libraries it is always 
possible to collect books of one subject into one place, that the reader may have 
the entire treasury of that theme before his eyes. 

The eight classes of our books are thus collected into eight suits of bookcases, 
as their titles on cards are arranged in eight drawers. To facilitate the handling 
of the books, they are also spotted on the back with paper patches of eight dif- 
ferent colors, corresponding to the eight suits of bookcases ; and each different 
drawer of the card catalogue is filled with cards of a corresponding color. It is 
not easy, therefore, for either a card or a book to get astray. The convenience 
might be extended to the printed catalogue b^^ tinting the pages devoted to 
each class division with its appropriate color. In the choice of colors there 
was nothing arbitrary. White being, of course, the color for the first class, 
general science, the colors of the other seven followed in the order of the solar 
spectrum : 

For mathematics, &c red II. 

For chemistry, &c orange . III. 

For natural history, &:c '. .yellow IV. 

For chronology, &c green V. 

For sociology, &c blue VI. 

For language, &c indigo VII. 

For biography, &c violet VIII. 

Under the principal analytical law of arrangement of the library, rule two 
others — the one a law of space, the other a law of time. 

Wherever a geographical arrangement could be made out, it was adopted. 
Such was the case with learned societies and their publications, and the cata- 
logues of libraries; with astronomical observatories and their observations; 
with books of geography, and voyages and travels ; with whole ranges of books 
in the various physical sciences; with books on ethnology, local history, local 
manufactures, local laws, and legislation; with books on language, belles-lettres, 
&c. And the geographical sequence proceeds, like that of history, y}<?w tJie 
cast wcsticard. 

In all other eases, and in all the sub-sections throughout the catalogue, a 



ON THE -CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. 425 

chronological arrangement is adopted for rapid reference ; and, to take tlie utmost 
advantage of it, the dates of books are arranged in column on the right side of 
the page. This cohinm should properly be on the left side of the page, but 
some allowance was considered due to tradition and the custom of the reader's 
eye. In consulting a catalogue for a book, perhaps the most natural reference 
first made is to the time of its appearance. Every catalogue might properly 
make its statements in the following order: "In this year ( ) a work ap- 
peared of this size ( "), and in this ( ) number of volumes, entitled thus ( ) ; 
its author was M. , and he published in such a place; the work is in (vel- 
lum, calf, paper, &c.,) and is to be found in the bookcase with this number on 
its back ( )." 

This t7</-o«o/og-if<7Z arrangement is practical and handy; and the books of all 
the principal divisions of the library are so arranged on the book-shelves — the 
oldest at the left-hand end of the uppermost shelf, and the rest in order of their 
dates. The reader, who has forgotten both title and author's name, can find, 
with little search, his book, if he only knows the subject of itand about the 
date of its appearance. Another most important advantage is obtained : there 
is no need of renumbering the books of a library when thus arranged. By 
writing the dates upon the spots of colored paper on the back, the end of num- 
bering the books is gained without the annoyance of posting two sets of numbers, 
one of which means nothing. Interpolation of new books is also easy and 
natural. The inconvenience of having half a dozen books of the same date is 
too slight to notice. 

The more serious inconvenience encountered in the case of serials, especially 
in the case of interrupted series of proceedings, transactions, acts, memoirs, and 
magazines, may be readily overcome by numbering all of a series of one date, 
viz : the date of the first volume, or, better yet, by placing all the living serials 
of a division at the end of a suit of cases of that division, Avhere they will not 
interfere with the chronological arrangement of the books, and where, also, they 
can be increased by periodical additions. 

Of course, in all this, it is understood that the size of books is disregarded, 
except where a lower shelf or shelves are given to quartos and folios. This 
may be a fatal objection to the whole plan, in the view of those who are more 
disposed to please the eye in regarding than to assist the brain in handling a 
library. But working scholars are soon cured of undue ajstheticism in externals, 
and a little extra height allowed to each shelf S2mce admits even the smaller 
folios into their chronological places. 

It will be noticed that the column of volumes and pamphlets Avhich stands 
next to the titles on each page of the catalogue, omits any statement of a book 
or pamphlet, except in that class and division in which the book or pamphlet 
is actually to be found in the library; otherwise, in summing up the niimber 
of books in the library, the same book would be counted as many times as its 
title happened to need duplication in different parts of the catalogue, and the 
search for it among the books of the library would also give that much addi- 
tional trouble. 



426 ACCOUNT OF HUMAN EEMAINS TKOM PATAGONIA. 

ACCOUiNT OF HUMAN REMAINS FROM PATAGONIA 

IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



PRESENTED BY DR. AQ. RIED. 



The accompanying female mummy was found about two months ago on the 
west coast of Patagonia, in latitude 44° south, near a point marked on the charts 
"Refujio bay." 

A considerable number of human skeletons and detached human bones were 
discovered, occupying a species of cavern on the face of the rocks that bind the 
coast, at an elevation of about one hundred feet above high-water mark, and at 
no great distance from the beach. Some of the skeletons retained part of the 
hair, integuments, and soft tissues, in various stages of decomposition ; the body 
under consideration was, however, the only one in a state approaching preserva- 
tion. Few similar specimens have hitherto been procured — two are in the 
national museum at Santiago ; a third Avas sent about ten years ago to the 
museum at Ratisbon, in Bavaria, by the writer of these remarks; and the fourth 
is the one herewith presented to the Institution. 

That Jew human bodies should be met with in these regions, even so imper- 
fectly preserved as the one in question, is not to be wondered at, if we take into 
account the climate, so peci;liarly unfavorable to the preservation of animal 
fibre, on account of the quantity of moisture with which the atmosphere is 
impregnated. 

We possess no reliable observations on the temperature of the district, but 
navigators and hunters agree in stating that ice is a rare occurrence, and that 
snow never remains long on the ground. The winter consists of a scarcely 
interrupted series of gales, with heavy rains, and lasts for iipwards of six months 
of the year. Although sheltered from the direct action of the snow and rain, 
the bodies lay exposed to the indirect influence of atmospheric changes — the 
caverns being of no great depth, and the bodies completely uncovered. 

The question naturally presents itself. From what cause have these bodies 
resisted the decomposing action of putrefactive fermentation? Are there any 
local natural causes to explain a phenomenon which appears in contradiction 
with what might be expected under ordinary circumstances, but particularly under 
those mentioned? I am not aware that any notice has been taken of this fact 
by any writer on natural history; and yet it appears sufficiently interesting to 
deserve attention. 

From the northern border of Patagonia up to the southern termination of the 
great desert of Atacama, the human body, after death, goes through the usual 
process of decay. No doubt in Patagonia the same result takes place, but there 
are evidently numerous exceptions to the rule, as many skeletons are met with 
on which the soft parts are only exsiccated, tendons and muscles adhering to 
the bone, in a state of semi-preservation. 

To suppose that the bodies had been made to undergo some preparation de- 
signed to preserve them, would be to assume the existence of a state of civilization 
which no collateral evidence warrants us in doing. Besides, the bodies them- 
selves present no traces of the employment of any artificial means for such a 
purpose. 

* See page 87 of this Report. 



ACCOUNT OF HUMAN REMAINS FROM PATAGONIA. 427 

The sitting posture in which these bodies are found, and which is peculiar to 
the tribes that inhabited the countries comprised* in the ancient Inca empire, 
indicates that they were not intendcid to be buried under ground, but to be 
deposited in some sitixation where they might be accessibU) to their friends. 
Some implement of domestic or warlike use is generally found in the immediate 
neighborhood of the body, as, in the present case, the rude attempt at a cutting 
■instrument, fashioned out of stone, and the dish, consisting of the outer shell 
of a kind of calabash. 

There are not wanting those who, determined on adapting all things to their 
favorite theories, choose to discover analogies between tlie mummies of Egypt 
and South America, and to deduce therefrom the direct connexion of these tribes 
with, if not their descent from, the inhabitants of the Old World. Nothing 
can be more vague or void of foundation. The one is the result of an artificial 
refined religious superstition, the other has been forced upon man as a conse- 
quence of peculiar local circumstances. The only analogy between them is 
that they are both intended as an homage to the dead. The feeling that led 
the Pharaohs to build pyramids, and the Moguls to erect mausoleums, is the 
same that induced our rude savage to lay these harmless utensils at the feet 
of his departed friend. 

In the rainless regions of the west coast, nearly all of which are contained 
within the Inca empire, many local circumstances combined to direct our 
attention to this otherwise anomalous method of treating the dead. Tlie atmos- 
phere is excessively dry, the soil impregnated with alkaline matter, nitre, and 
soda, in varied combinations, almost everywhere in abundance, thus modifying 
the process of putrid fermentation, so as to render it exceedingly slow, or to 
suspend it entirely. Animals may be seen lying unchanged in many parts of tlie 
country for years after their death, and what more natural than a desire to 
preserve the dead when it could be done so easily? In Chili proper, on the 
other hand, and in Araucania, which intervene between Peru and Patagonia, 
tradition and actual observation proves that the custom of thus preserving the 
dead has never prevailed. Indeed, without the employment of artificial means 
it would be impracticable, and the aborigines of these districts buried their dead 
in the manner as practiced by the majority of nations. 

On these premises how is it to be explained that the mummies recur in the 
isolated locality where the one before us, and several others, have been found, 
separated as they are from the mummy races by a large intervening space and 
a people that differ entirely from them in this important social feature ? And 
how can v/e account for the connexio^ which this peculiar cus'tom would lead 
us to suspect between the Inca Indian and the remote Patagonian ? 

The dimensions of the bones of our mummy arc considerably above the 
average of those of the surrounding tribes, and even of the majority of the 
present inhabitants of Patagonia. The skeleton measures, even in its present 
shrivelled condition, fully five feet five and a half inches English, which, allow- 
ing for the disappearance of the vertebral cartilages, would give, during life, a 
height of something like five feet eight inches, thus almost justifying the some- 
what poetical epithet of "gigantic," as applied to the Patagonians in general. 
The fair proportions of the lower extremities are particularly striking, as con- 
trasted with the generally abnormal shortness of these members amongst the 
Araucanian Indians. The entire individual gives the impression of having 
belonged to a race superior, in bone and muscle, to its neighbors as well as 
descendants. 

The existence of such a race, distinguished by so striking a physical organ- 
ization, in an isolated corner of the continent, under circumstances certainly 
not favorable to growth, having to struggle Avith every kind of privation and 
to subsist on the poorest of aliments, is a phenomenon which has not attracted 
the attention of scientific men in the degree it merits. The Inca Indians, (or 



428 ACCOUNT OP HUMAN REMAINS FROM PATAGONIA. 

the mummy races,) to a connexion witli wliom the Patagonian mummies would 
point, were rather under middle size, and weakly, in comparison to the latter, 
although inhabiting a fertile country, with a favorable climate. At the same 
time, the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego, separated from Patagonia only by the 
narrow straits of Magellan, present an appearance of almost decrepitude. The 
reconcilement of these apparent contradictions would be well worth the study 
of ethnologists. 

The contact of these races with what is called civilization has not tended as 
yet to exalt their sense of morality. Some years ago the attention of the 
Chilian government was directed towards these territories. A German officer 
of engineers, Bernhard Philippi, explored the region, and having, amongst 
other things of commercial importance, discovered coal, the government deter- 
mined on establishing there a penal colony. In 1851 the military commander, 
Cambiazo, taking advantage of a revohxtion then raging in the country, amongst 
other brutalities, committed the one of hanging some six or eight unfortunate 
Indians, who had been guilty of no other crime than that of being in the colony 
at the moment. Having quelled the revolution, the government sent Mr. 
Philippi to organize the colony. He found the bodies of the murdered men 
still hanging, and at once having buried them, commenced a series of negotia- 
tions with the Patagonians tending to appease their fears and their anger. His 
apparent success was such that trading was resumed, and he was invited by the 
chiefs to visit the interior. Two years after he had started, it was ascertained 
that both he and his secretary had been murdered a few days after their departure 
from the colony, in retribution for the lives sacrificed by Cambiazo. 

Although unable to distinguish between the guilty and the innocent, in the first 
instance, they must have still possessed the sense of right and wrong to a 
certain extent, and their conscience made such coAvards of them that for several 
years none approached the settlement, and for a long time they could not be- 
lieve that retaliation would not be practiced on them. 

Although furnished with great pliysical powers, the Patagonians have never 
been a warlike race; their collisions with the neighboring Indians, and their 
intestine broils, never assuming anything of a general character. Of their me- 
chanical skill the accompanying adze-shaped stone may convey an idea; their 
weapons of offence are the rudest imaginable, the principal one being the 
"bolas," of the Spaniards, or the "lakhi," of the Araueanians. 

Of the four skulls which I have the honor to present to the Institution, the 
one marked No. 3 belonged to an Indian of the "Pampa,"the northeastern 
frontier of Patagonia, who has been killed by the above-mentioned weapon. 
The "lakhi" consists of two, or sometimes three round stones of the-»size of 
a small orange, covered with raw hide, and connected by pieces of thong of 
the same material. In war they are used of lead, and it is evident that the 
blow, in the present case, has been given by a weapon of the latter description, 
as the force necessary to fracture the skull by a stone would have caused a 
much more extensive gap in the bone ; whereas the blow of the lead, being 
conveyed Avith greater energy, Avoitld produce a more circumscribed wound. 
The individual had been killed in an incursion of the Pampa Indians towards 
the south, and the skull was procured by the surgeon of the colony. It is 
difficult and dangerous to collect such remains, as the Indian will sooner forgive 
you for killing his companion than for abstracting any part of a dead body. 1 
plead this in excuse of the defective state in which the specimens are presented. 
The skull, marked No. IV, was found about eighteen leagues (fifty-four miles) 
from the Chilian settlement towards the northeast, and presents a striking diifer- 
cnce from the former one. Neither does it resemble many others found in the 
same region ; and the excessive flatness of the superior anterior portion, the great 
breadth of the posterior inferior region, and the position of the foramen magnum, 
would lead to the supposition that it belonged to an inhabitant of "Tierra del 



ACCOUNT OF HUMAN REMAINS FROM PATAGONIA. 420 

Fucgo," one of the lowest branches yet discovered of the human family. 
This is neither impossible nor improbable, as feuds between the tribes are con- 
stantly occurring, and the individual may have been dragged into the interior 
as a prisoner of war. The large size of the temporal muscles points to carnivo- 
rous habits. 

The skulls, Nos. I and II, are those of two Araucanian Indians, Avho were 
killed in the late collision of these tribes with the Chili troops. The number 
and nature of the sabre cuts and fractures testify to the barbarism of the 
contest, as well as to the clumsiness of the combatants. An anecdote is con- 
nected with them which is rather characteristic. On being exhibited in the 
custom-house in Valparaiso, the authorities, who had no idea of any scieutilic 
object being attachable to the skull, inquired of me what '■'■martyrs''' they had 
belonged to. Although both skulls in question belonged to pure Araucanians, 
still, 1 do not consider them as specimens of an wmiixed race. The upper 
and anterior portion of the brain is but poorly developed, the parietal diameter 
exceedingly small, and the cerebellar portion preponderating. Yet, the differ- 
ence between them and the mummy — the one marked No. Ill — and even the 
Pampa Indian, is such as to warrant the presumption that the race had been 
crossed with a superior one, although in a slight degree. The supraorbital 
processes are, as found in men of violent passions, endoAvcd with a large 
amount of animal life, and the position of the foramen magnum approaches 
more to that of the European skull than the purer Indian. The centuries of 
intercourse with the Spaniards and their descendants, and the consequent 
introduction of squatters, deserters, and prisoners, besides the not uufrequcnt 
abduction of white women, sufficiently explains this intermingling of race. 
l)Ut it will not suffice to explain all that is told to us about these wandering 
tribes by the Spanish historians and poets, who attribute to them elevated ideas 
about the immortality of the soul, systems of religion and politics, and noble 
qualities such as distinguish the most elevated representatives of the human 
race. On view of these stubborn skulls, however, and even admitting that the 
crossing with the superior race has not improved them, we must take these 
assertions ' 'cum grano salis," and that a very considerable one. The two 
writers on whom the sins of the subsequent compilers may be charged are the 
poet Ercilla and the Jesuit Molina. The one, a maker of long verses, in 
which he describes his own deeds somewhat in the vein of "Ancient Pistol," 
endeavors to exalt his own prowess by praising his enemy; the other, a simple- 
minded priest, narrates, with an enviable credulity, historical facts in a poetical 
manner, and without the critical acumen which ought to distinguish the histo- 
rian. The fables Avhich the credulity of the one and the exaggeration of the 
other of these two celebrities, let loose upon the Avorld, have been repeated by 
their compiling successors down even to " Monsieur Gay," who, although paid 
by the Chili government for writing, amongst other things, a critical history 
of the country and its inhabitants, repeats the received traditions without 
much inquiry into their soundness. As the history' of these races has been 
thus rendered obscure by the barbarism, ignorance, and superstition of the 
first invaders, and as their architectural and industrial relics arc toQ few to 
guide us securely in our investigations, the mummies and osseous remains 
which are found in great abundance and in varied situations, form a valuable 
cue to the observer, and may enable him to solve much of what without them 
would remain unexplained. Hence, I venture to submit the subject to the 
attention of the lovers of ethnological inquiry. 

Valparaiso, June 4, 1862. 



ioO PRIZE QCl-^STIOXS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 

PRIZE QUESTIONS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 



INSTITUTION or CIVIL ENGINEERS. LONDON. 

SUBJECTS FOR PREMIUMS, SESSION, 1863-'G4. 

The Council of the Institution of Civil Engineers invite communications on 
the subjects comprised in the following list, as well as upon others; such as, 
1st. Authentic details of the progress of any work in civil engineering, as fai 
as absolutely executed (Smeaton's account of the Edystone light-house may be 
taken as an example;) 2d. Descriptions of engines and machines of various 
kinds; or 3d. Practical essays on subjects connected with engineering, as, for 
instance, metallurgy. Eor approved original communications on these, or other 
subjects, the council will be prepared to award the premiums arising out of 
special funds devoted for the purpose. 

1. On the decay of materials in tropical climates, and the methods employed 
for arresting and preventing it. 

2. On the theory of metal and timber arches. 

3. On the theory and details of construction of wrought-iron girder bridges. 

4. On laud-slips, with the best means of preventing, or arresting them, witb 
examples. 

5. On the pressure of earth on tunnels, and the conditions which limit its 
amount. 

6. On the theory and practice of artesian well-boring, and of sinking large 
shafts, as now practiced on the continent. 

7. On the results of contrivances for facilitating the driving of tunnels, or 
drifts in rocks. 

8. On the principles to be observed in laying out lines of railway through 
mountainous countries, with examples of their application in the Aljis, the 
Pyrenees, the Indian ghauts, the llocky mountains of America, and similar 
cases. 

9. On the best means of preserving railways in Alpine countries from inter- 
ruptions from snow. 

10. On the results of recent experience in iron permanent way. 

11. On the principles to be observed in the designing and arrangement of 
terminal and other railway stations, repairing shops, engine-sheds, &c., Avith 
reference to the traffic and the rolling stock. 

12. On railway ferries, or the transmission of ilway trains entire across 
rivers, estuaries, &c. 

13. On locomotive engines for ascending steep inclines, especially when in 
combination with sharp curves, on railways. 

14. On the working of locomotive engines in long tunnels, with frequent 
stations. 

15. On the results of the application of Giffard's injector to the boilers of 
locomotive and other engines. 

IG. On the working expenses of railways, and the influence on these of the 
original design and construction. 

17. On the results of a series of observations on the flow of water from the 
ground, in any large district, with accurately-recorded rain-gauge registries, in 
the same locality, for a period of not less than twelve months. 



PRIZE QUESTIONS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 431 

18. Ou tlie construction of catcli-water reservoirs in mountain districts, for 
ibe supply of towns, or for manufactiu-ing purposes. 

19. Accounts of existing water-works, including the source of supply, a 
description of the different modes of collecting and filtering, the distribution 
throughout the streets of towns, and the general practical results. 

20. On the Lest means of improving the -water supply of the metropolis. 

21. On the structural details, and the results in use, of apparatus for the fil- 
tration of large volumes of water. 

22. On the drainage and sewerage of large towns, exemplified hy accounts 
of the systems at present pursued with regard to the level and position of the 
outfall, the form, dimensions, and material of the sewers, the prevention of 
emanations from them, the arrangements for connecting the house drains with 
the public sewers, the best means of limiting the contamination of rivers from 
the sewage discharged into them, and the disposal of the sewage Avhcther in a 
liquid form, as irrigation, or in a solid form, after deodorization. 

23. On the results of the employment of steam-power on canals, and of 
other measures for the improvement of canals as a means of conveyance for 
heavy traffic. 

24. On iron paving, and a comparison of the results attained by it, and by 
stone block paving, &c. 

25. A history of any fresh Avater channel, tidal river, or estuary, accompanied 
by plans and longitudinal and cross sections, ijicludiug notices of any works 
which may have been executed upon it, and of the effects of the works, par- 
ticularly of the relative value of tidal and fresh water, and of the effect of en- 
closures from the tidal area upon the general regime of sluicing wliere applied 
to the improvement of the entrance or the removal of a bar, and of groynes, 
or parallel training walls ; also of dredging, with a description of the machinery 
employed, and the cost of raising and depositing the material. 

26. On the results of a series of observations, illustrative of the modifica- 
tions which the tidal wave undergoes in its passage up and down a river, or 
estuary. 

27. On the construction of tidal, or other dams, in a constant, or variable 
depth of water, and on the use of wrought iron in their construction. 

28. A history of any harbor, or dock, including the reasons for selecting the 
site, the mode of construction adopted, and the subsidiary works for the con- 
venience of shipping, and for commercial purposes, with the cost, &c. 

29. On graving docks and mechanical arrangements having a similar object, 
with the conditions determining their relative applicability in particular cases, 
as dependent on the rise of tide, the depth of water, and other circumstances. 

30. Ou the arrangement and construction of floating landing-stages, for pas- 
senger and other traffic, with existing examples. 

31. On the diff'erent systems of swing, lifting, and other opening bridges, 
with existing examples. 

32. On the construction of light-houses, their machinery and lighting appa- 
ratus, with notices of the methods ui use for distinguishing the different lights. 

33. Ou the measure of resistance to steam vessels at high velocities. 

34. On the results of the use of tubular boilers, and of steam at an increased 
pressure, with or without superheating, for marine engines, noticing particularly 
the diff"ercnce in weight and in speed, in proportion to the horse-power and tlie 
tonnage. 

35. On the relative advantages of the principle of expansion, as applied in 
the single long-stroke cylinder engine, in the double cylinder engine, and in the 
three-cylinder engine, and on the adaptation of the two latter to marine pur- 
poses. 

26. On the principles and varieties of construction of blast engines, with 
British and foreign examples. 



432 PKIZE QUESTIONS OP SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 

37. Ou the best description of steam fire-engines, and their power and 
efficiency, an compared with ordinary hand fire-engines. 

38. Ou the con!--truction of, and the comparative duty performed by modem 
pumping engines for raising water for the supply of towns, or for the drainage 
of mines, noticing in the latter case the depth and length of the underground 
workings, the height of the surface above the sea, the geological formation, the 
contiguity of streams, &c. 

39. Ou turbines and other water motors of a similar character, and their con- 
struction and performance, in comparison with water-wheels. 

40. On the present systems of smelting iron ores, and on the conversion of 
cast iron into the malleable state, and of the manufacture of iron generally, 
comprising the distribution and management of iron works. 

41. On the manufacture of iron for rails and wheel tyres, having special 
reference to the increased capability of resisting lamination and abrasion, and 
accounts of the machinery required for rolling heavy rails, shafts, and bars oi 
iron of large sectional area. 

42. On the manufacture of large masses of iron for the purposes of warfare, 
as armor plates, &c. 

43. On the construction of rifled and breech-loadiug artillery, and on the 
initial velocity, range and jienetration of rifled projectiles, and the influence of 
atmospheric resistance. 

44. On the use of steel bars and plates in engine work and machinery, for 
boilers and for ship-building as well as for bridges. 

45. On the use of steel in the construction of locomotive engines, especially 
with reference to durability and the cost of repairs, in tyres and cranked axles, 
as compared with iron of acknowledged good quality. 

46. On the Bessemer and other processes of steel-making, on the present 
state of the steel manufacture on the continent of Europe, and on the employ- 
ment of castings in steel for railway wheels and other objects. 

47. On the safe working strength of iron and steel, including the results of 
experiments on the elastic limit of long bai'S of iron, and on the rate of decay 
by rusting, &c., and imder prolonged strains. 

48. On the transmission of electrical signals through submarine cables. 

49. On the present relative position of English and continental engineering 
manufactories, especially with reference to their comparative positions in respect 
of the cost and the character of the work produced. 

50. Memoirs and accounts of the works and inventions of any of the follow- 
ing engineers : Sir Hugh Middleton, Arthur Woolf, Jonathan Hornblower, 
Richard Trevithick, William Murdoch (of Soho,) Alexander Nimmo, and John 
Rcunie. 

Original papers, reports, or designs of these or other eminent individuals 
are particularly A'aluable for the library of the institution. 

The competition for premiums is not confined to members or associates of 
the institution, but is equally open to all persons, whether natives or for- 
eigners. 

The council will not consider themselves bound to award any premium 
should the communication not be of adequate merit, but they Avill award more 
than one premium should there be several communications on the same subject 
deserving this mark of distinction. 

The communications must be forAvarded, on or before the 1st of January, 
1864, to the house of the Institution, No. 25 Great George street, Westminster, 
S. W., where copies of this paper, and any further information, may be ob- 
tained. 

CHARLES MANBY, Honorary Secretary. 
JAMES FORREST, Secretary. 

25 Great George street, 

Westminster, S. W., August, 1863- 



PRIZE QUESTIONS OP SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 



Extracts frovi the minutes of council, February 23, 1835. 

The principal subjects for which premiums Avill bo giveu are : 

1. Descriptions, uccompanied by phms and explanatory drawings, of any 
work in civil engineering, as far as absolutely executed ; and which shall con- 
Tain authentic details of the progress of the work. (Smeaton's account of the 
Edystone light-house may be taken as an example.) 

2. Models or drawings, with descriptions of useful engines and machines ; 
plans of harbors, bridges, roads, rivers, canals, mines, etc. ; surveys and sec- 
tions of districts of country. 

3. Practical essays on subjects connected with civil engineering, such as 
geology, mineralogy, chemistry, physics, mechanic arts, statistics, agriculture, 
etc., together with models, drawings, or descriptions of any new and useful ap- 
paratus, or instruments applicable to the purposes of engineering or surveying. 

Excerpt hy-laws, section XIV, clause 3. 

Every paper, map, plan, drawing, or model presented to the institution shall 
be considered the property thereof, unless there shall have been some previous 
arrangement to the contrary, and the council may publish the same in any way 
and at any time they may think proper. But should the council refuse or delay 
the publication of such paper beyond a reasonable time, the author thereof 
shall have a right to copy the same, and to publish it as he may think fit, 
having previously given notice, in writing, to the secretary, of his intention. 
No person shall publish, or give his consent for the publication of any com- 
munication presented and belonging to the institution, without the prcviouf5 
consent of the council. 

Instructions for preparing communications. 

The communications should be written in the impersonal pronoun, and be 
legibly transcribed on foolscap paper, about thirteen inches by eight inches, the 
lines being three-quarters of an inch apart, on the one side only, leaving a 
margin of one inch and a half in width on the left side, in order that the, sheets 
may be bound. 

The drawings should be on mounted paper, and with as many details as may 
be necessary to illustrate the subject. Enlarged diagrams, to such a scale that 
they may be clearly visible, when suspended on the walls of the theatre of the 
institution, at the time of reading the communication, should be sent for the 
illustration of any particular portions. 

Papers which have been read at the meetings of other scientific societies, or 
have been published in any form, cannot be read at a meeting of the institution. 
nor be admitted to competition for the premiums. 



28 s 



434 PROVINCIAL SOCIETY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, UTRECHT. 



PROGRAMME 

OF THE 

PROVINCIAL SOCIETY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES OF UTRECHT. 

18G2-'63. 

The society has awarded no medal for the memoirs which have been offered 
since its general session in 1661. The decisions which have been pronounced 
on the four memoirs presented during that period by learned strangers are here 
atimmarily given : 

1. A memoir in the German language on the heat of plants. 

Device: Etcnim experimentorum, etc. 

The author of this memoir has not placed himself at the point to which the 
question had been carried by researches previous to his own. He has, more- 
over, employed for his experiments a method which, in the present state of sci- 
ence, seems insufficient for the profound study of the question. 

2. A memoir in Latin on the veracity of Casar. 

Device: Quanta majora cr ant, etc. 

This memoir has furnished but a slight sketch of the subject — a sketch which 
is neither recommended by the order nor logic of its discussions. The results 
of researches respecting the opinion of Pollio are not subjected to a judicious 
and scientific appreciation. There is even no mention made of the recent at- 
tempts which have contributed to elucidate this difficult question. Besides, the 
Latin style of the author has given occasion to no slight animadversion. 

3. A memoir in German on ventilation. 

Device: Lztft mthr Inft. 

It was acknowledged that this memoir is not without merit. Yet it is defi- 
cient in a critical discussion of the most important elements of the question : 
the manner in which the enclosed air is altered, and the influence which the ma- 
terials of constructioHS exert upon the working of the ventilating apparatus. 

4. A memoir in French on the same subject with No, 3. 

Device : II faut savoir tine fo'is pourtontcs, etc. 

This memoir treats only of the means of preserving the air in its state of 
purity, while the question propounded on the nature of the alteration which 
the air undergoes in dwellings is passed by without discussion. 

The new questions proposed for competition, the subject of which may be of 
interest to learned foreigners, are the following : 

1. An exposition of the principles of sound policy which, dating from the 
nineteenth century, have prevailed in the relations of Holland with its East 
Indian possessions, especially the effect of securing an efficacious protection 
against every sort of oppression, as well to the colonists as to the native popu- 
lation. A comparison in this respect of English and French laws and ordi- 
nances with those of the colonial system of Holland. 



PROVINCIAL SOCIETY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, UTRECHT. 435 

2. History of the coinage of moucy among the Greeks. 

3. A memoir on the inhibitory nerves, (nerfs inhibitoires.) It i^ requisite 
that the author shoukl not limit himself to a critical review of the opinion? 
already delivered on this subject, but that he should illustrate it by new experi- 
ments. 

4. A critical exposition of the principles and results of the method of which 
NiEBUiiR has availed himself in explaining the Roman history, and of the in- 
fluence which the example of this illustrious savant has exercised on historical 
studies generally. 

5. A series of researches on the heat of plants. 

6. Researches on the development of one or more 3j)ecies of animals pertjiin- 
ing to the class of Mollusks, to that of Annelidse, or to that of the Crustacece, 
whose development has not yet been described, accompanied by explanatory 
figures. 

The prize Avhich will be awarded to each satisfactory response will consist of 
a gold medal of the value of three hundred florins of Holland, (about 600 
francs,) or of the same amount in money. This prize will be doubled for ques- 
tion No. 2. The replies must be written in French, Dutch, German, (Roman 
characters,) English, or Latin, and be addressed, post-paid, before November 
30, 1863, to the secretary of the society, M. Gunning, at Utrecht. For ques- 
tion No. 2, competition will remain open till the 30th of November, 1865. 
The memoirs must be accompanied by a sealed note enclosing the name and 
address of the author. Accepted replies will be published in the memoirs of 
the society. Refer for fuller information to the secretary, M. Gunning. 



436 PRIZE QUESTIONS. 

PRIZE QUESTIONS 

PEOPOSED IN I8G2 BY THE ROYAL DANISH SOCIETY OF SCIENCES. 
MATHEMATICAL CLASS. 

The meridian observations of small stars from the seventh to the tenth mag- 
nitude, made by the roy;^l astronomer, Nevel Maskelyne, during a succession 
of years, but chiefly in 1767-'G8, would seem not a little calculated, if vigor- 
ously reduced, to extend the catalogues of stars ; and as it cannot be doubted 
that, from their antiquity and the scrupulous care in making them, these obser- 
vations might be of no small utility to a knowledge of the lixed stars, the so- 
ciety offers its gold medal to any one who shall accurately reduce them, so that 
the mean places thence resulting, for any particular period, may be catalogued 
and compared with the positions since assigned by Lalande, Bessel, and Arge- 
lander, or with those derived from any other accessible source. 

PHYSICAL CLASS. 

With the re-agents which we now habitually employ, it is often not practica- 
ble to detect with sufficient accuracy and certainty sugar, dextrine, gum, and 
starch, especially when a small portion of one or more of these bodies is mixed 
with other organic substances. But as it is in many cases of no little conse- 
([ucnce to have subtle and suitable re-agents for distinguishing the bodies above 
namc'd, the society propounds the question : By what method can it be certainly 
decided whether or not sugar, dextrine and starch exist in the fluids and tissues 
of animals 1 

HISTORICAL CLASS. 

Although the ten books on architecture, usually ascribed to Marcus Vitruvi- 
ous Pollio, are commonly referred, upon external testimony, to tlie age of the 
Emperor Augustus, yet, whether we regard delicacy of art and dexterity of 
construction, or knowledge of letters and style of composition, they seem not to 
belong to that golden era. Since the objections advanced on this subject have 
never been satisfactorily examined, nor is the authority which should be con- 
ceded to the laws and rules of building prescribed in these books altogether ex- 
empt from doubt, the society desires that accurate inquiry should be made, re- 
specting the age of this Avriter and his sources of information. 

In the discussion of the above questions the Latin, French, English, German, 
Swedish, or Danish language may be used at pleasure. Communications must 
not be signed with the name of the author, but denoted by some token, and 
accompanied by a sealed note containing the same token, and indicating the 
writer's name, style, and place of residence. Competition is not open to the 
associates of the society inhabiting the Danish dominions. As a prize, the 
gold medal of the society, equal in value to fifty Danish ducats, will be 
award(;d to the candidate who shall satisfactorily answer any of the questions, 
except in cases where some other premium is designated. 

Answers must be consigned, before the end of October, 1863, to George 
Forchhammer, corresponding secretary of the society. 



ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE INSTITUTE OF BOLOGNA. 437 
PROGRAMME 

OF THE 

ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE INSTITUTE OF BOLOGNA 

IN REFERENCE TO TIIF, 

ALDINI PKIZE FOE RESEARCHES IN GALVANISM, FOR THE YEAR 18Cu. 

No memoir having been presented for competition in 1862, the same subject 
if? again proposed; and in view of its great importance, and the no slight diffi- 
culties attending it, the prize is increased and its conditions modified as follows : 

The muscles and nerves of the frog are seats of electrical currents, Avliich 
liavc given occasion to two dissertations crowned by this academy, and elabo- 
rated by the chemical professors, Grimelli and Cima, to answer two inquiries 
proposed for competition for the Aldini prize. On the authority, chiefly, of a 
very recent publication by M. Budge, professor in the University of Griefswald, 
the skin is also ass(;rted to be the seat of an electrical current in the frog. The 
academy, which has always sought to know clearly and accurately how much 
has been ascertained in point of electricity with regard to that animal from 
which galvanism had its origin, cannot but desire also to know how much has 
been since discovered respecting the same, and of course how much should be 
referred to the last-mentioned current. It proposes therefore the following 

INdUIRV. 

1st. To examine and explain whatever of consequence has been ascertained 
by physicists and physiologists, since the above-mentioned dissertations of Pro- 
fessors Grimelli and Oima, respecting the muscular and nervous currents, as 
well as those of contraction in the frog; and above all, the real importance of 
the electro-tonic state of the nerves, by no means inconsiderable according to 
the careful researches of M. Pflugcr, but almost nothing in the opinion of the 
above-named M. Budge. And 

2d. To investigate by precise and conclusive experiments whether an elec- 
tric current really manifests itself in the skin of the frog, and, if tlie result be 
affirmative, what are the laws of this current; should it be regarded or not as n 
physiological phenomena; and has it any dependence on the other currents? 

The academy wishes that the analogous facts observed in other aniraah 
should not be dissociated from those relative to the frog, but that the former 
should be refcn-ed to and discussed, thus reuniting in one whatever is well- 
known about the animal economy in relation to the object of this discussion, 
and within the limit assigned to this competition. 

A prize of two thousand Italian llrcs (nearly $300) will be paid to the author of 
the paper which, under the above-mentioned terras and conditions, shall present, 
in the judgment of this academy, the best solution of the proposed in(|uiry. 

ilemoirs intended for competition nuist reach Bologna, j'ostage paid, within 
the month of December, 1865, plainly addressed to the secretary of the 
Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna. Tliis limit is imperative, 
and therefore memoirs will not be received for competition which arrive aft<>r 
the last day of the month mentioned. The memoirs must be written in Italian, 
Ijatin or French, in characters easily legible. The academy requests the 
greatest exactness in quotations from printed works, and the highest authen- 
ticity in the written documents, to which the authoi-s may have recourse for the 



438 ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE INSTITUTE OF BOLOGNA. 

proof of corroboration of their aBsertions. Eacli competitor must countersign 
his memoir with some epigraph, and accompany it with a sealed note enclosing 
his name, style and address, the aforesaid epigi-aph being repeated on the cut- 
Bide. Competitors must use every precaution not to make themselves known, 
since those Avho, by some expression of the memoir, or in any other manner, 
shall divulge their identity, will be excluded from the competition. At the ex- 
piration of the above-mentioned term, and judgment having been pronounced 
according to the regulations of the academy, only that note will be opened 
which accompanies the accepted memoir, and thereupon the name of the suc- 
cessful candidate will be published. 

Prof. GUISEPPE BERTOLINI, 

Presideni. 

Dr. DOMENICO PIANI, 

Secretary. 

BoLOGXAj Residbnz\ DEL l'Instituto, 26 Feb., 1863. 



CONTENTS. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 



Pag*. 

Eesolation of Congress to print the Report 2 

Letter from the Secretary to Congress 3 

Letter from the Chancellor and Secretary 4 

Officers and Regents of the Institution 5 

Members ex officio and honorary members of the Institution 6 

Programme of Organization 7 

Itoportof the Secretary, Professor Henry. (For lb(32. ) 13 

Ri>port of the Assistant Secretary. ( For 1862. ) 46 

List of Donations to the Museum 57 

List of Smithsonian Publications during 18G2 6l> 

List of Meteorological Stations and Observers 62 

liist of Meteorological Material received during 1862 70 

Report of the Executive Committee 75 

Journal of the Board of Regents, from January 21, 1863, to February 3, 1803 78 

J'^ulogy on Hon. James A. Pearce, by Professor Bache 100 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

LECTURES. On tjie Undulatory Theory of Light, by Dr. F. A. P. Bar- 
nard 107 

Part I. Introductory — 

Outline of Optical Discovery 107 

Theories of Light 143 

Part II. Undulatory Theory — 

1. Vibration 147 

2. Undulation 151 

3. Reflection and Refraction 157 

4. Interference ^ 162 

5. Diffraction 172 

6. Colors of thin plates 183 

7. Polarization by Reflection and by Refraction 188 

8. Circular and Elliptical Polarization by Reflection 19f> 

9. Rotary Polarization 20(1 

10. Chromatics of Polarized Light 204 

11. Double Refraction 215 

12. Wave Surl'ace 224 

Index to Lectures on Light 232 

IJECTURES. On Physical Ethnology, by Dr. Danikl Wilson 240 

Part I. The American Cranial Type 240 

Part II. Changes in Cranial Forms 265 

Part III. Primitive Art-traces 291 

LECTURES. Introductory to the Study of IIigu Antiquity, by A. Moiilot.. . 303 



440 CONTENTS. • 

Page. 

NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY. By John Lubbock 318 

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF PARIS. By 

M. Floijrens 337 

MEMOIR OF LEOPOLD VON BUCH. By M. Flourens 358 

MEMOIR OF LOUIS JACQUES THENARD. By M. Floluens 373 

MEMOIR OF M. ISIDORE GEOFFROY ST. HILAIRE. By M. De Qu atuefages 384 
THE CATALYTIC FORCE, or STUDIES ON THE PHENOMENA OF CON- 
TACT, a prize memoir, by T. L. Phipson 395 

ON ATOMS. By Sin John Herschel 41 3 

ON THE CLASSIFICATION OF BOOKS. By J. P. Lesley 416 

ACCOUNT OF HUMAN REMAINS FROM PATAGONIA. By Dr. A. Ried 426 

PRIZE QUESTIONS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES— 43<.» 

Loxdon Institution of Civil Engineers. 1863 430 

Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences of Utrecht. 1862-63. 434 

Royal Danish Society OF Sciences. 1862 436 

Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna. 1863 437 



INDEX. 



Academy of Sciences of Institute of Bologna. Programme and Questions 437 

Academy of Sciences of Paris. History of, by Flourens SiTT 

Agassiz, Prof. Account of museum of ?i8 

Determination of Echini, by 56 

Naming of sbells, by IW 

Agents. Foreign and domestic of the Smithsonian 47 

Alcock, Dr. Naming of shells, by .W 

Allen, Dr. H. Report on American bats, by 55 

Alexander, C. A. Translations by 27,337,358,373,395 

Aj^paratus. Arrangement of 33 

Archa?ology. Lectures on, by A. Morlot 303 

Letter relative to, from I. Dille 86 

North American, a re view, by John Lubbock 318 

Atoms. By Sir John Herschel 4 J H 

Audubon Club of Chicago. Kennicott's exploration 40 

Bache, A. D. Eulogy on Senator J. A. Pearce lOd 

Magnetic observations made at Girard College 17 

Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, and Maryland S(> 

Badger, George E. Eesolution respecting 70 

Baud, S. F. Report of 46 

Barnard, F. A. P. Lectures on light ] 07 

Barometric observations on mountains SI, 82 

Barometers. Comparison of Standards, by Guyot 31 

Bibliography of Conchology. By Binney 2i 

Binney, Dr. Amos. Work on shells 22 

Binney, W. G. Naming shells, by 30 

Works on shells i>2 

Books received from South Carolina and Alexandria 80 

Building-stones used in Washington. Sets of 33 

Busk, Mr. Naming shells, by 'M 

Canal, city. Plan for improving rsO 

Carpenter, P. P. Arrangement and naming of shells, by 3C> 

Works on shells 22 

Catalogue 'of Transactions, in Smithsonian library 4*2 

Catalogues of libraries. On construction of 410 

Catalytic Force. A memoir, by T. L. Phii)son 39,', 

Chester county. Notices of men and events in 8:1 

Circular to telegraph operators relative to observing the weather ST 

Civil Engineers. Prize questions 43(t 

Classification of books, by John P. Lesley 4J(> 

Cleveland, Prof. Parker. Meteorological record from 1808 to 1859 30 

Coast Survey. Tables computed at, for Smithsonian 3.'> 

Collections of Natural History. Account of 34 

Comets. InvCvStigations relative to 82 

Conchology. Smithsonian publications on 21 



442 INDEX. 



Congress. Appropriation by, for care of collections 77 

(intact, phenomena of. Memoir on 395 

Contributions to knowledge. Contents of vol. XIII 17 

(Jon-espondence. Extracts from 80 

(_^ycladida3. Prime's work on 23 

Uaa, Louis Kr., museum in Christiania, Norway 85 

Darlington, Dr. Wm. ^York presented by 83 

Death of 83 

Dayis, Hon. G. Appointed regent, to succeed Mr. Pearce 78 

Deaths of meteorological observers 69 

Dille, I, Letter of, relative to archaeology 86 

Disinfectant, made for hospitals 33 

Distribution of specimens. Eules for 35, 36 

Donations to the museum in 1862 57 

Eaton, Daniel C. Letter relative to ferns 97 

Egleston, Th. Arrangement of rocks and minerals by, and list of species 36 

Kngelmann, Dr. Goo. Heights of mountains 81 

J'^ntomology. Smithsonian works on 24 

Specimens referred to collaborators 37 

Estimates for 1863 77 

Ethnology. Lectures on, by A. Morlot ■- 303 

Lectmeson, by Prof. D. Wilson 240 

Eulogy on Hon. James A. Pearce, by Prof. Bache 100 

Exchanges. Literary and scientific 41 

Exchanges. Statistics of 47 

Expenditures of the Institution during 1862 75 

Explorations for the Institution 39, .55 

Flachenecker, Geo. Letter relative to Sheyenne Indians 95 

i'ladgate, Clarke & Finch, attorneys to collect remainder of Smithsonian fund in 

England -. 15 

Force, W. Q. Meteorological system, in charge of 32 

Observations on temperature of hydrant water 'M 

Foreman, Dr. E. Sets of Unionidfe, by 56 

Flourens. History of Academy of Sciences of Paris 337 

Slemoir of Leopold Von Buch 358 

Memoir of Louis Jacques Thenard 373 

French, B. B. Grounds under the care of 38 

Gallery of art. Additions to ^ 42 

Gibbs, Geo. Letters on philology and ethnology 87, 89, 91 , 92, 93 

Gill, Theo. Examination of fishes <''>6 

Girard College. I'rof. Bachc's obseivations at - •- - - - J7 

Government. Aid rendered to, by the Institution 14 

Gray, Dr. A. Arrangement of plants, by 30 

Gray, Dr. J. E. Identification of bat % 

Guyot, Prof. A. Extension of tables of 31 

New physical tables 25 

On Parry's mountain measurements 82 

Relation of standard barometers, established by 31 

Hammond, Dr. W. A. Interest of, in meteorology 33 

Haven, S. F. Archjeology of United States, review of 31B 

Herbarium received from Tennessee - 96 

Herschel, Sir John. On Atoms 413 



INDEX 443 

Page. 

Ilildreth, Dr. S. P. Meteorological records of 31 

Historical sketch of Academy of Sciences of Paris, by Flourens 3.77 

1 lonorary members of the Institution 6 

Hubbard, J. S. Investigation of Biela's comet 82 

1 ludson's Bay Company. Facilities rendered by, to Mr. Kennicott , 40, 55 

Human remains from Patagonia. Account of 426 

1 iicome. Causes of reduction of 15 

Statement of, for 1862 75 

Index to lectures on light 232 

Indiana. Interest not received on bonds of 15 

Institutions sending meteorological registers 69 

Johns, Bishop John. Books of, sent to Smithsonian by War Department 80 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents 78 

Kennicott, Robert. Account of exploration of 39, 55 

Labarraque's disinfecting liquid 33 

Laboratory. Operations in 33 

Lapham, I. A. Antiquities of Wisconsin, review of 318 

Lawrence, George N. Labelled humming birds 55 

Libraries, Classification of books iu 416 

Library. Additions to 41 

Light. Lectures on the undulatory theory of 107 

Lea, Isaac. Naming shells, by • 36 

Lectures. Account of, during 1861-'62 43 

Rules to govern 44 

List of, delivered 18G2-'63 45 

On the study of high antiquity, by A. Morlot 303 

On ethnology, by Professor D. Wilson 240 

On the imdulatory theory of light, by F. A. P. Barnard 107 

Lesley, John P. On the classification of books 416 

Letters. Secretary to Congress 3 

Chancellor and Secretary to Congress 4 

H. Sibley, relative to telegrams of weather 81 

G. Engolraann, relative to Dr. Pan-y's barometrical measurements 81 

J. S. Hubbard, relative to observations of Biela's comet 82 

William Darlington, relative to notices of men of Chester county, Penn. 83 

T. Lyman, relative to Schlagintweit's collections 84 

H. de Scblagintweit, relative to collections of ethnology, &c., for sale.. 84 

Louis Kr. Daa, relative to ethnological museum at Christiania, Norway. 85 

I. Dille, relative to archseological remains 86 

Dr. Aq. Ried, relative to Atacama mummy 87 

George Gibbs, relative to philology and ethnology 87, 93 

J. G. Shea, relative to Indian vocabularies 94 

E. A. Watkins, relative to dictionary of Cree Indians 94 

G. Flackenecker, relative to Shcyeune Indians 95 

W. H. Pease, relative to natural history, &c., of Sandwich Islands. 95 

Dr. H. R. Wirtz, relative to herbarium captured from confederates 96 

Dr. G. Mettenius, relative to ferns of Brackenridge's collection 97 

D. C. Eaton, relative to ferns 97 

H. de Saussure, relative to works on entomology 97 

relative to sale of cabinet of minerals 96 

M. Romero, relative to Xantus's explorations in Mexico 99 



444 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Lewis, Dr. James. Account of meteorological records made by the machine of :i2 

Lubbock, John. On North American Archaeology ;5J S 

Lyman, Thco. Kecommending Schlagintweit 84 

Magnetic observations, ))y Professor Baclie 17 

Magnetic survey of I'ennsylvania, New York, Ohio, and Maryland, by Professor 

J'achc and Mr. Soliott '20 

JlclVak, William. Death of 7'J 

Funeral expenses to bo paid 7^ 

Mclaniada". Tryon's work on 23 

Members ex officio of the Institution G 

Memoir of Isidore Geoffroy Ht. Hilairo, by Quatrefagcs 384 

Leopold Von lUicb, by I-'lourens XjS 

Louis Jacques Thenard, by Flourens 373 

Meteorological directions and blanks ado])ted in Mexico 31 

Material contributed in addition to regular observations 70 

Operations in 18G2 23 

Kecords by Dr. James Lewis 3;2 

Stations and observers for 1862 G2 

System much deranged by the war J 4 

Mottenius, G. Letter relative to ferns 97 

Minerals. Examination of 33 

Offered for sale 98 

Miscellaneous Collections. Account of 21 

Contents of tirst four volumes Gl 

Moon. Magnetic iulluenct> of 20 

Morlut, A. Lectures on study of high antiquity 303 

Mummies from Patagonia 42(3 

Museum. Account and object of 34, 37 

Arrangeui<;nt of specimens in &6 

List of donations to, during 18()2 57 

National Institute. I'roperty transferred to the Smithsonian IG 

Norwegian Museum. Circular of 8.") 

Oflicers of the Smithsonian Institution ^> 

Pan y, Dr. Barometrical measurements of mountains 81 

Patagonia. Account of human remains from 42G 

Pearce, Hon. J. A. EuJogy on JOO 

Resolutions relative to the death of 78 

I'eu.se, W. II. Letter relative to Sandwich Islands 95 

Phipson, T. L. The catalytic force, or studies on the phenomena of contact 395 

Pierce, I'rofessor 15. Doctrine of probabilit ies 19 

Politics excluded from operations of Institution 44 

Prime, T. Naming shells, liy 3G 

On Cycladida: 23 

Printing by the Institution dining 18G2 4(J 

Prize questions by scientific societies 43(> 

Prograunne of organization of the Institution 7 

Of scientific societies 43() 

I'roviucial Society of Arts and Sciences of Utrocht. Prize questions 4:J4 

Publications. List of, during 18G2 60 

Account of 16 



INDEX. 445 

Page. 

Quatrefages. Jlemoir of Isidore Geoffrey St. Hilaire 364 

Receipts and expenditures during 1862 77} 

Regents of flic )Smithsoniiin Institution 5 

Piegister of visitors 38 

Reid, Dr. A. Account of human remains from Patagonia 426 

Letter, with Atacama mummy 87 

Report of Regents for 18G J , contents of 27 

Executive (^'omniitteo 75, 79 

Secretary, l*rof. I leury 13 

Extra copies ordered 27 

Rules for distribution of 28 

Resolution of Senate ordering report to be printed 2 

Resolutions of Regents relative to appropriations 12 

Romero, M. Letter granting facilities to Xantus 99 

Royal Danish Society of Sciences. Prize questions 436 

Royal Society of London. Systematic Index prepared by 42 

Saint Hilairo, Isidore Geoffroy. Memoir of, by Quatrefages 384 

Sanitary Commission. Scientific labors of 14 

Saussure, Hemy de. Letter relative to works on Ilymenoptcra, Orthoptera, &c 97 

Schlagiutweit, Hermann de. Description of collections of ethnography, &c., for sale. 84 

Schott, Chas. A. Magnetic surveys, by 20 

Shea, J. G. Letter relative to Indian vocabularies 94 

Shells of North America. Smithsonian works on 21 

Sibley, Hiram. Telegraphic co-operation 80 

Silliman, B. Present of bust of 43 

Stick, Dr. Catalogue of monkeys, by JiS 

Squier, E. G., on aboriginal monuments of N. Y. Review of 318 

Squicr and Davis. Review of , 318 

Stager, A. Telegrams of weather from 29 

Stanley, J. M. Indian gallery of 43 

Stanton, E. M. Communication from, relative to books from South Carolina 80 

Steenstnip, Dr. Naming shells, by 36 

Stereotyping publications of Smithsonian 28 

Stimpson, Wm. Naming shells, by 36 

On shells of the east coast U. S 23 

Studies on the phenomena of contact, by T, L. Phipson 395 

Sumner, Wm. H. Bust of, presented 43 

Sun. Magnetic influence of 19 

Surgeon General. Co-operation in meteorology 33 

Scientific labors of 14 

Systematic Index to articles in transactions 42 

Tables. Account of new series of, prepared by Prof. Guyot 25 

Telegraphers. Directions to, relative to meteorology 81 

Telegraphic bulletin of weather 29 

Temperature. Underground 30 

Thanks to transportation companies 41 , 47 

Thenard, Louis Jacques. Memoir of, by Flourens 373 

Torrey, Dr. J. Arrangement of plants, by 30 

Tornadoes. Circular relative to and information obtained respecting 29 

Transportation. Details of 47 



446 INDEX. 

Page. 

Tryon, G. W. Naming shells, by 36 

University of Michigan. Contributed to Kennicott's exploration 40 

Von Buch, Leopold. Memoir of, by Flourens 358 

Wallach, Hon. Rich. , appointed on Executiye Committee TJ 

War, Department of, communication from, relative to books from South Carolina and 

Fairfax Seminary St-i 

War. Effect of, on science 13 

Watkins, E. A. Letter relative to dictionary of Cree Indians 94 

Wilson, Prof. Daniel. Lectures on Physical Ethnology 240 

Wirtz, H. E. Letter relative to herbarium 96 

Wood, Geo. Present of bust of W. H. Sumner from 43 

Xantus, John. Explorations in Mexico 40,55 

Facilities to, granted by Mexican government 99 




D 



is^ 










Sfe^ 



