Annual Report of the Board of Regents 

of the 

SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 




PUBLICATION 4392 



Showing the Operations, Eltpenditures, and Condition of the 
Institution for the Year Ended June 30 

1959 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON : 1960 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December SI, 1959. 

To the Congress of the United States : 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Eevised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Kegents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1959. I have the honor to be. 
Respectfully, 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary. 



CONTENTS 



Page 

List of oflBcials v 

General statement 1 

The Establishment 4 

The Board of Regents 5 

Finances 5 

Visitors 6 

Summary of the year's activities of the Institution 7 

Reports of branches of the Institution: 

United States National Museum 11 

Bureau of American Ethnology 55 

Astrophysical Observatory 96 

National Collection of Fine Arts 111 

Freer Gallery of Art 127 

National Air Museum 141 

National Zoological Park 150 

Canal Zone Biological Area 190 

International Exchange Service 197 

National Gallery of Art 206 

Report on the library 220 

Report on publications 224 

Other activities 231 

Lectures 231 

Bio-Sciences Information Exchange 232 

Aviation Education Institute 233 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 234 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



The transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg 247 

The IGY in retrospect, by Elliott B. Roberts 263 

Astronomy from artificial satellites, by Leo Goldberg 285 

Solar radio astronomy, by Alan Maxwell 299 

The new uses of the abstract, by George A. W. Boehm 309 

Mirages, by James H. Gordon 327 

Lessons from the history of flight, by Grover Loening 347 

The use of oceanography, by G. E. R. Deacon 361 

Ambergris — Neptune's treasure, by C. P. Id3dl 377 

The rhythmic nature of animals and plants, by Frank A. Brown, Jr 385 

The survival of animals in hot deserts, by E. B. Edney 407 

Amphibians, pioneers of terrestrial breeding habits, by Coleman J. Goin _ _ 427 
A study of saturniid moths in the Canal Zone Biological Area, by A. D. 

Blest 447 

m 



IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Page 
Evolution of knowledge concerning the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides, 

by Benjamin Schwartz 465 

The protection of fauna in the U.S.S.R., by G. P. Dementiev 483 

Reconstructing the ancestor of corn, by Paul C. Mangelsdorf 495 

The need to classify, by Roger L. Batten 509 

Current advances and concepts in virology, by stafif members of Lilly 

Research Laboratories 523 

In search of a home: From the Mutiny to Pitcairn Island (1789-1790), by 

H. E. Maude 533 

The Chinook sign of freedom: A study of the skull of the famous chief 

Comcomly, by T. D. Stewart 563 

The Muldbjerg dwelling place: An early Neolithic archeological site in 

the Aamosen Bog, West-Zealand, Denmark, by J. Troels-Smith 577 

Three adult Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq, 

by Ralph S. Solecki 603 

Sumerian technology, by Ida Bobula 637 

Brandy wine: An early flour-milling center, by Peter C. Welsh 677 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's Report: 

Plates 1-4 70 

Plates 5, 6 134 

Plates 7-10 214 

Transuranium elements (Seaborg) : Plate 1 254 

The IGY (Roberts): Plates 1-3 278 

Astronomy from artificial satellites (Goldberg): Plates 1-4 294 

Solar radio astronomy (Maxwell): Plates 1, 2 302 

Mirages (Gordon): Plate 1 342 

History of flight (Loening) : Plates 1-7 350 

Oceanography (Deacon): Plates 1, 2 — 366 

Ambergris (Idyll): Plates 1, 2 382 

Saturniid moths (Blest): Plates 1-5 454 

Roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides (Schwartz) : Plates 1, 2 470 

Ancestor of corn (Mangelsdorf): Plates 1-4 502 

Need to classify (Batten): Plate 1 522 

Virology (Lilly Research Laboratories) : Plates 1-4 526 

From the Mutiny to Pitcairn Island (Maude): Plate 1 634 

Skull of famous chief Comcomly (Stewart) : Plates 1-6 576 

Muldbjerg dwelling place (Troels-Smith) : Plates 1-6 598 

Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave (Solecki): Plates 1-6 614 

Sumerian technology (Bobula): Plates 1-6 646 

Plates 7-12 662 

Brandywine (Welsh): Plates 1-7 686 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1959 

Presiding Officer ex officio. — Dwight D. Eisenhoweb, President of the United 

States. 
Chancellor. — Eakl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

Dwight D. Eisenhoweb, President of tlie United States. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Christian A. Hertek, Secretary of State. 

Robert B. Anderson, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Neix. H. McElroy, Secretary of Defense. 

William P. Rogers, Attorney General, 

Arthxje E. Sitmmerfield, Postmaster General. 

Fred A. Seaton, Secretary of the Interior. 

Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Lewis L. Strauss, Secretary of Commerce. 

James P. Mitchell, Secretary of Labor. 

Arthur S. Flemming, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Clinton P. Ande^json, Member of the Senate. 

J. William Fulbright, Member of the Senate. 

Leverett Salton stall, Member of the Senate. 

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Overton Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island. 

ARTHtJB H. CoMPTON, citizen of Missouri, 

Robert V. Fleming, citizen of Washington, D.C. 

Crawford H. Gbeenewalt, citizen of Delaware. 

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of W^ashington, D.C. 

Jerome 0. Hunsaker, citizen of Massacliusetts. 
Executive Committee. — Robert V. Fleming, chairman, Clarence Cannon, Caryl 

P. Haskins. 
Secretary. — Leonard Cabmichael, 

Assistant Secretaries. — J. L. Keddy, A. Remington Kellogg. 
Assistant to the Secretary. — James C, Bradley. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Mrs, Louise M, Pearson, 
Treasurer. — T, F. Clark, 

Chief, editorial and publications division. — Paul H, Oehser. 
Librarian. — Ruth E, Blanchard, 

Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service. — G, Carroll Lindsat, acting. 
Buildings Manager. — Andrew F. Michaels, Jr,, acting. 



VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Chief, personnel division. — Mes. Ann S. Campbell, acting. 

Chief, supply division. — A, W. Wilding. 

Chief, photographic service division. — O. H. Greeson. 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg. 
Registrar. — Helena M. Weiss. 

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Director. — A. C. Smith. 

Department of Anthropology: F. M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, 
exhibits specialist. 

Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., Ralph 
S. Solecki, associate curators. 

Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, E. I. Knez, 
associate curators ; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator. 

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman, 
associate curator. 
Depabtmknt of Zoology : Herbert Friedmann, head curator. 

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W. 
Setzer, associate curators. 

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, acting curator; H. G. Deignan, as- 
sociate curator. 

Division of Reptiles and AmphiMans: Doris M. Cochran, curator. 

Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor, 
associate curators. 

Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator ; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Crabill, 
Jr., W. D. Field, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, assistant curator. 

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer, 
T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators. 

Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate 
curator. 
Department of Botany (National Heebaeium) : J. R. SwaUen, head curator. 

Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. S. Cowan, E. C. Leonard, 
Velva E. Rudd, E. H. Walker, associate curators. 

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator. 

Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator. 

Division of Cryptogams: M. E. Hale, Jr., acting curator; P. S. Conger, as- 
sociate curator ; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator. 
Department of Geology : G. A. Cooper, head curator. 

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; R. S. Clarke, 
Jr., P. E. Desautels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators. 

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper, acting 
curator ; R. S. Boardman, P. M. Kier, associate curators. 

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, 
Nicholas Hotton, 3d, P. P. Vaughn, associate curators ; F. L. Pearce, ex- 
hibits specialist. 

MUSEUM OF history AND TECHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. A. Taylor. 
Assistant Director. — J. C. Ewers. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT VH 

Chief exhibits specialist. — J. E. Anglim. 

Chief zoological exh ibits specialist. — W. L. Brown. 

Assistant chief exhibits specialists. — B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Law- 
less, Jr. 
Department of Science and Technology : R. P. Multhauf, head curator. 

Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator. 

Division of Mechanical and Civil Enffineeritig : E. S. Ferguson, curator; 

E. A. Battison, associate curator; R. M. Vogel, assistant curator. 
Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, associate 

curator ; J. H. White, assistant curator. 
Division of Electricity: W. J. King, Jr., acting curator. 
Division of Medical Sciences: G. B. Griffenhagen, curator; J. B. Blake, 

associate curator. 
Department of Arts and Manufactures : P. W. Bishop, head curator. 

Division of Agriculture and Wood Products: W. N. Watkins, curator; E. C. 

Kendall, associate curator. 
Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, acting curator. 
Division of Ceramics and Olass: P. V. Gardner, acting curator. 
Division of Oraphic Arts: Jacob Kaiuen, curator; A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., 

associate curator ; F. O. Griffith, 3d, assistant curator. 
Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, acting curator. 
Department of Crv'iL History : A. N. B. Garvan, head curator ; P. C. Welsh, 

associate curator ; A. P. Krimgold, Jr., junior curator. 
Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret B. 

Klapthor, associate curator ; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assist- 
ant curators. 
Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watkins, acting curator ; J. D. Shortridge, 

associate curator; Rodris C. Roth, assistant curatoi*. 
Division of Philately and Postal History: G. T. Turner, acting curator, 

F. J. McCall, associate curator. 

Division of Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator; Mrs. 

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator. 
Department of Armed Forces History : M. L. Peterson, head curator. 

Division of Military Hist07-y: E. M. Howell, acting curator; C. R. Goins, Jr., 

assistant curator. 
Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, acting curator; P. K. Lundeberg, 

associate curator. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr. 
Anthropologist. — H. B. Collins, Jr. 
Ethnologists.— W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe. 

River Basin Surveys. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson, Chief, 
Missouri Basin Project. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — F. L. Whipple. 

Associate Directors. — J. A. Hynek, T. E. Sterne. 

Astrophysicists. — R. J. Davis, E. L. Fireman, L. G. Jacchia, Max Krook, F. B. 

Riggs, Jr., C. A. Whitney. 
Mathematician.— R. E. Briggs. 
Table Mountain, Calif., fikld station. — A. G. Froiland, physicist. 



Vin ANNUAL REPORT SAnTHSONlAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Division of Radiation and Organisms : 
Chief.— W. H. Klein. 

Plant physiologists. — -V. B. Elstad, Leonard Price. 
FAectronic engineer. — J. II. Harrison. 
Instrument maker. — D. G. Talbert. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF nNE ARTS 

Director. — T. M. Beggs. 

Associate curator. — Rowland Lym. 

Smithsonian Tbaveling Exhibition Sekvice, — Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — A. G. Wenley. 

Assistant Director. — J. A. Pope. 

Associate in Near Eastern art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 

Associate in technical research. — R. J. Gettens. 

Associate curators. — J. F. Cahill, H. P. Stem. 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Advisory Board: 

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman. 

Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., V.S. Air Force. 

Rear Adm. R. B. Dixon, U.S. Navy, 

lit. Gen. James H. Doolittle. 

Grover Loening. 
Director. — P. S. Hopkins. 
Head curator and historian. — P. E. Garber. 
Associate curators. — L. S. Casey, W. M. Male, K. E. Newland. 
Junior curator. — R. B. Meyer. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — T. H. Reed. 

Associate Director. — J. L. Grimmer. 

Veterinarian. — James F. Wright. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 
Resident Naturalist. — M. H. Moynihan. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 
Chief.— J. A. Collins. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Trustees: 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

Christian A. Herter, Secretary of State. 

Robert B. Anderson, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

F. Lammot Belin, 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

Paul Mellon. 

Rush H. Kbess. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



IX 



President. — Chestee Dale. 
Vice President. — F. Lammot Belin. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Caiens. 
Director. — John Walkee. 
Administrator. — Ebnest R. Feidlee. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Caiens. 
Chief Curator. — Peeey B. Cott. 

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows 

Office of the Secretary 

John E. Graf 

United States National Museum 

MUSEUM OF natural HISTORY 



Anthropology 



Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. 
N. M. Judd, Archeology. 
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. 
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology. 



Paul Bartsch, MoUusks. 

J. Bruce Bredin. 

M. A. CarrLker, Insects. 

C. J. Drake, Insects. 
Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes. 

D. C. Graham, Biology. 
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine 

Invertebrates. 
A. B. Howell, Mammals. 
Laurence Irving, Birds. 
W. L. Jellison, Insects. 



Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses. 
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams. 



R. S. Bassler, Paleontology, 
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany. 
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate 
Paleontology. 



H. Morgan Smith, Archeology. 
W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology. 
W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology. 



Zoology 



W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera. 
Allen Mcintosh, Mollusks. 
J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates. 
C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects. 
W. L. Schmitt 

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology. 
R. E. Snodgrass, Insects. 
T. E. Snyder, Insects. 
Alexander Wetmore, Birds. 
Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod 
Crustacea. 



Botany 



F. A. McClure, Grasses. 
J. A. Stevenson, Fungi. 



Geology 



C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate 
Paleontology. 

J. B. Knight, Invertebrate Paleon- 
tology. 

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy. 



MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

History 



Elmer O. Herber. 



F. W. MacKay, Numismatics. 



x annual report smithsonian institution, 195 9 

Bureau of American Ethnology 



J. P, Harrington. 
Sister M. Inez Hilger. 



Oleg Grabar. 

Grace Dunham Guest. 



M. W. Stirling. 
A. J. Waring, Jr. 



ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 
C. G. Abbot. 

Freer Gallery of Art 



Max Loehr. 

Katherine N. Rhoades. 



Frederick C. Crawford 



W. M. Mann. 



National Air Museum 

I Jolin J. Ide. 
National Zoological Park 
I E. P. Wallier. 
Canal Zone Biological Area 
C. C. Soper. 



Report of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution 

LEONARD CARMICHAEL 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1959 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonicm Institution: 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ- 
ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches 
for the fiscal year ended Jmie 30, 1959. 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

The activities of the 113th year of the Smithsonian Institution are 
presented in this report. In many ways this has been an outstanding 
year at the Smithsonian. Once again the services rendered by the 
Institution demonstrate the wisdom of our distinguished founder 
and man of science, James Smithson, in establishing in Washington 
an institution for the "increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." The increase in knowledge is embodied in research, and this 
year the investigations of the Smithsonian staff have been very fruit- 
ful, as the details given herein will indicate. The diffusion of knowl- 
edge has involved the answering of some 260,000 specific inquiries re- 
lated to the fields of expertness found in the Smithsonian's various 
divisions, laboratories, and libraries. The diffusion of knowledge 
has also been actively carried on by the publication of scholarly and 
semipopular works, which are also described elsewhere in this report. 
Possibly, however, the main means by which the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution diffuses knowledge is through its museum exhibits and the edu- 
cational and inspirational opportunity that these displays give to 
our millions of visitors each year. 

As pointed out in recent annual reports, real progress has been made 
in the past few years in transforming the old, outmoded museum dis- 
plays of the Smithsonian into modern, effective, teacliing exhibits. 
The visitors who now come to the Smithsonian Institution are deeply 
grateful that Congress has made it possible to bring about this grad- 
ual transformation of Smithsonian exhibition halls from what in too 
many respects was until recently an old-fashioned place for "visual 
storage." 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

In 1954, for the first time in the long liistory of the Smithsonian 
Institution, a fully outlined program was adopted for the progressive 
improvement of all its exhibition halls and for the modem presenta- 
tion of tens of thousands of appropriate objects from the great na- 
tional collections that are in its charge. This modernization is now 
complete in 17 major galleries. To put this in another way, a total of 
about 80,000 square feet of exhibition space has now been transformed, 
and 673 separate exhibit units have been fully reorganized and mod- 
ernized for the benefit and education of the public. 

Before this modernization program began, many of the Smith- 
sonian Institution exhibits had not been changed for as long as 75 
years. Amazing as it may seem, the great and often unique treasures 
of the Institution, which today include over 52 million cataloged ob- 
jects, were still being displayed in a manner that had long before be- 
come outmoded in almost every other national museum in the world. 
Wlien the present transformation began, for example, gas fixtures 
were still in place, although not in use, in some of our exhibition halls. 
In a few large sections of Smithsonian buildings there was as recently 
as 5 years ago no provision for artificial light of any kind either 
in display cases or in public spaces. This meant that on many winter 
afternoons some of the great treasures of the Smithsonian were abnost 
invisible to visitors. 

It may be pointed out that all around the globe, especially since 
the Second World War, there has been a new recognition of the role 
of the museum as a public information center. ^lore and more mu- 
seums are seen as places needed to inspire each new generation with 
the kind of patriotism that is based on a valid understanding of the 
factors that have led to national growth. The history of the devel- 
opment of science, for example, as displayed in a modern museum 
has a significant function in interesting and inspiring a real interest 
in science on the part of school boys and girls. 

This new museum philosophy has been wholeheartedly accepted and 
adopted at the Smithsonian. The experts in each of its great sub- 
ject-matter fields have given much thought to developing the best ways 
to present their exhibits so as to meet this modern and challenging 
view of what a museum should be. The present objective of renova- 
tion at the Smithsonian, therefore, is not only to show many interest- 
ing objects in a clear way but also to explain how and why the partic- 
ular items selected for display are intellectually significant. An old 
shoe with a wooden sole is unimportant alone, but when shown as part 
of the field equipment of a soldier of the Confederate States of 
America it explains much about the problems of equipment during the 
Civil War. 

At the present time as a visitor studies the presentation of objects 
in any of the modernized exhibition halls of the Institution, he can 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 3 

see clearly illustrated such great ideas as man's use of natural re- 
sources and man's gradual triumph in the long development of specific 
arts and sciences. 

The newly modernized exhibits of the Smithsonian cover diverse 
fields. For example, the displays of the anthropology, ethnology, and 
archeology of the New World before Columbus have been admirably 
rearranged. The birds of the world are presented as important and 
beautiful in themselves and as significant elements in the economy 
of nature and in zoological science in general. A large section is de- 
voted to the great mammals of America, showing in artistic and ac- 
curately composed habitat groups the way in which such animals as 
the bison, the wolves, and the elk lived. The geological sciences are 
presented in a new exhibition hall, which has been called the most 
notable display of its kind in the world. Here minerals, gems, and 
the new Vetlesen jade collection are most clearly displayed. But 
the minerals actually shown are not more than 3 percent of the total 
Smithsonian study collections in this field. 

For more than a century the Smithsonian Institution has been as- 
sembling unequaled collections of important items dealing with the 
history of the United States. Some of the most significant of these 
have never been displayed for the benefit of the public. Now thou- 
sands of these objects are presented in an appropriate and instructive 
manner. Typical of the display of historic materials is the hall in 
which the dresses of the First Ladies of the White House are shown, 
each in an authentic setting. In the period room in which Martha 
Washington's dress is shown, for example, there are exhibited only 
objects that belonged to and were used by George Washington him- 
self. The halls of American military history have been transformed, 
and the displays of many of the arts and manufacturing processes 
have also been entirely made over. Among other new displays is a 
hall for the presentation of machines and products used in the 
graphic arts and one for textiles and textile machinery. In the latter 
hall a great Jacquard loom has been installed in operating condition, 
with its amazing punch-card mechanism clearly explained to the 
visitor. Another new exhibit is a complete 17th-century American 
house brought piece by piece from Massachusetts and carefully and 
authentically reerected and furnished with objects of everyday use of 
just the sort employed by early New England Colonial families. 

One indirect result of the still far from complete modernization 
program of the Smithsonian has been an increase in the use of the 
study collections of the Institution by research workers. Students 
in schools and colleges now also come in larger numbers to the new 
exhibition halls of the Institution. Some come alone or with par- 
ents and some under the supervision of teachers. In the new halls 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

they learn as they cannot elsewhere important lessons about the nat- 
ural resources of America, the natural history of the world, and 
special aspects of the histoiy of their own United States. Many leave 
better informed and are more truly patriotic Americans than when 
they came. As noted elsewhere in this report, volunteer, unpaid but 
well-trained docents from the Junior League of Washington instruct 
thousands of schoolchildren each year as they carefully lead them 
through specially selected halls on educational tours. 

The modernization program has had a great effect on attendance 
at the Smitlisonian. The number of visitor to the Smithsonian, not 
including the National Gallery of Art or the National Zoological 
Park, in 1954, when the modernization of exhibits program began, 
was 3,658,000. The attendance of the year covered by this report, 
1959, was, as is elsewhere noted, 6,351,000. This phenomenal in- 
crease in number of visitors is certainly due in considerable measure 
to the new interest generated by the modernized exhibits. 

The staff of the Smithsonian Institution has planned and is con- 
tinuing active work on the modernization of an additional 28 exhibi- 
tion halls in our existing buildings. It is also engaged in planning 
and preparing exhibits for 47 large halls in the Smithsonian's new 
Museum of History and Teclinology Building, which is being erected 
on Constitution Avenue between 12th and 14th Streets. 

This total exhibit-development program in the Smithsonian, there- 
fore, will, when it is completed, have included well over a hundred 
large galleries or major halls and literally thousands of specific ex- 
hibition units. These units will in sum total display for the public 
more than a million objects from our unrivaled national collections 
in new, clear, and intelligible settings. 

The Smithsonian Institution has long been called the Nation's 
Treasure House. When the modernization program described in the 
preceding paragraphs is complete and when the new Museum of His- 
tory and Technology Building is opened, certainly this great national 
treasury will at long last be presented in a way that is worthy of 
modern America. 

"When James Smithson specified that he wished his institution to be 
concerned not only with research but also with the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, he set a pattern that has inspired the devoted and effective work 
of the staff of his institution that has made this modernization pro- 
gram so successful. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of 
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of 
America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 5 

sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the tmst, Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, 
constituted an "establishment," whose statutory members are "the 
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the 
executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

The current year brought the retirement of two members of the 
Board of Eegents : Senator H. Alexander Smith and Representative 
John M. Vorys. At the time of the annual meeting the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives appointed Representative Frank T. Bow of 
Ohio to succeed Representative John M. Vorys. On February 5, 1959, 
the Vice President appointed Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkan- 
sas to succeed Senator H. Alexander Smith. 

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows: 
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice 
President Richard M. Nixon ; members from the Senate : Clinton P. 
Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall ; members from 
the House of Representatives : Frank T. Bow, Overton Brooks, Clar- 
ence Cannon; citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. 
Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. 
Haskins, and Jerome C. Himsaker. 

On the evening of January 15, 1959, preceding the annual meeting, 
an informal dinner was given in the main hall of the Smithsonian 
Building amid various exhibits showing the present-day phases of 
the work of the bureaus and departments. Dr. Richard Ettinghausen 
spoke on "Objects Dealing with Christian Themes in the Freer Gallery 
Collections" ; Dr. Charles Lewis Gazin on "Eocene Mammals of the 
Bridger Formation in Southwestern Wyoming"; Dr. Vladimir Clain- 
Stefanelli on "Comparative Die Studies: A Method of Numismatic 
Investigation and Its Historical Significance" ; and Edgar M. Howell 
on "Private Hermann Steiffel — Sometime Artist of the West." 

The annual meeting was held on January 16, 1959. The Secretary 
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu- 
tion together with the 1958 Annual Report of the United States Na- 
tional Museum. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Com- 
mittees of the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial report 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. 

FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian 
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee 



6 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



of the Board of Regents, page 234. Funds appropriated to the Insti- 
tution for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1959, totaled $7,587,800. Besides this direct appropriation, the Insti- 
tution received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as 
follows : 

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park $953, 800 

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the 
River Basin Surveys 162, 000 

VISITORS 

Visitors to the Institution's exhibition halls continue to increase. 
Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall reached a 
total of 6,351,352, an all-time high and nearly a million more than the 
previous year. April 1959 was the month of largest attendance, with 
978,230 ; May 1959 second, with 867,817; August 1958 third, with 769,- 
086. Largest attendance for a single day was 92,945 on April 12, 
1959. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the 
five buildings ; table 2, groups of schoolchildren. These figures, when 
added to the 951,608 visitors recorded at the National Gallery of Art 
and the 4,055,673 estimated at the National Zoological Park, bring 
the year's total number of visitors at the Institution to 11,358,633. 



Table 1. — Visitors to' certain Smiths onian'buildings during the year ended June SO, 

1959 



Year and month 


Smithsonian 
Building 


Arts and 
Industries 
Building 


Natural 
History 
Building 


Aircraft 
Building 


Freer 
Building 


Total 


1958 
July 


105, 654 

141, 457 

49, 885 

45, 002 
55, 269 
27, 724 

32, 672 

46, 899 
110,821 
170, 520 
139, 186 
126, 039 


310, 882 
312, 426 
122, 427 
115,621 
127, 064 
57, 956 

72, 515 
103, 074 
229, 864 
392, 353 
301, 701 
286, 978 


150, 153 

175, 188 

68, 848 

96, 748 

146,618 

73, 220 

86, 980 
109, 682 
209, 894 
303, 991 
319, 018 
217, 407 


97, 050 
125, 124 
40, 766 
34, 129 
38, 483 
20, 221 

25, 461 
36, 037 
69, 695 
96, 800 
95, 398 
111, 119 


12, 872 
14, 891 
8,682 
7,502 
7,488 
4,018 

6,248 

6,218 

10, 825 

14, 566 

12, 514 

13, 509 


676,611 


August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

1959 

January 

February 

March 

April 


769, 086 
290, 608 
299, 002 
374, 922 
183, 139 

223, 876 
301, 910 
631, 099 
978, 230 


May _- 


867, 817 


June - _ 


755, 052 






Total 


1,051, 128 


2, 432, 861 


1, 957, 747 


790, 283 


119,333 


6, 351, 352 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



Table 2. — Groups of schoolchildren visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the 

year ended June SO, 1959 



Year and month 



Number of 
ehilflren 



Number of 
groups 



1958 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

1959 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

Total 



7,670 
8,648 
4,433 
19, 534 
21,083 
9,801 



9,769 

18, 339 

54, 235 

110,950 

148, 789 

44, 424 



457, 675 



301 

405 
145 
644 
612 
295 



346 

581 
1,426 
2,431 
3,338 
1,354 



11,878 



SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S ACTIVITIES 

National Museum. — The national collections were augmented dur- 
ing the year by a total of 1,144,445 specimens, bringing the total 
catalog entries in all departments to more than 52 million. Some of 
the outstanding items received included : In anthropology, a 12th-cen- 
tury stone Buddha from Cambodia, 4 collections of Micronesian 
ethnological material, and a cast of the Ganovce (Slovakia) Neander- 
thal skull ; in botany, the entire herbarium of Goucher College, con- 
sisting of about 6,100 specimens; in geology, the legendary Hope 
diamond, a superb collection of Chinese jade carvings, the largest 
dinosaur bone known from this country, and more than 7,300 speci- 
mens of Carboniferous plants ; in zoology, large lots of mammals and 
birds from Panama, 2 large collections of fishes from the eastern 
United States ; the Monros collection of more than 54,000 chrysomelid 
beetles, and many mollusks and marine invertebrates collected by the 
Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition ; in civil history, an entire 
room from the Gothic Revival Harral-"\^^ieeler house in Bridgeport, 
Conn., an entire 18th-century loghouse from Wilmington, Del., addi- 
tions to the White House china collection, and important lots of 
philatelic and numismatic material, including the Dwight D. Eisen- 
hower collection of coins, medals, and memorabilia ; in Armed Forces 
history, early U.S. military and naval insignia from the W. Stokes 

536608—60 2 



8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Kirk collection and 117 original drawings of U.S. sailing ships; in 
arts and manufactures, several important gifts of ceramics and glass, 
a group of fine prints, and an 18th-century French hand-and-foot 
treadle loom for the new textile hall ; and in science and technology, a 
collection of early handmade locks, bolts, and decorative handware, 
an acquisition of dental instruments, furniture, and equipment re- 
lating to the history of dentistry, and a group of scientific instruments 
used by Ira Eemsen at Johns Hopkins University. 

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Central America, South 
America, the Caribbean, Europe, and many parts of the United States. 

Under the exhibits-modernization program, three new halls were 
opened to the public during the year — the Graphic Arts Hall, the 
Hall of Gems and Minerals, and the Textile Hall. An event of the 
year of particular public interest was the unveiling of the Fenykovi 
elephant in the rotunda of the Natural History Building. Fitting 
ceremonies were also held in connection with the opening of the 
room displaying the Maude Monell Vetlesen collection of Chinese 
jade carvings. 

Bureau of American Ethnology. — The members of the Bureau staff 
continued their research in archeology and etlmology : Director Rob- 
erts particularly on matters pertaining to the River Basin Surveys, 
Dr. Collins his Arctic and Eskimo studies. Dr. Sturtevant his Semi- 
nole and Seneca researches, Mr. Miller his archeological work at Rus- 
sell Cave in Alabama. 

Astrophysical Observatory. — The year's researches of the Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory have embraced solar astrophysics, 
upper atmosphere studies, meteoritical studies, and satellite science. 
The satellite- tracking program was continued, with notable results. 
The division of radiation and organisms continued its researches on 
the photomorphogenic mechanism in plants as controlled by radiant 
energy. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — The Smithsonian Art Commis- 
sion accepted for the Gallery 19 bronzes, 1 bronze plaque, 4 medal- 
lions, 3 oils, and 4 watercolors. The Gallery held 17 special exhibitions 
during the year ; and the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service 
circulated 100 exhibitions (29 new and 71 held from previous years) 
to 240 museums. 

Freer Galle7^ of Art. — Purchases for the Freer Gallery Collec- 
tions included outstanding examples of Syrian glass ; Indian lacquer- 
work ; Indian and Persian metal work ; Indian, Chinese, and Japanese 
painting ; and Chinese and Japanese pottery. The Gallery continued 
its program of illustrated lectures by distinguished scholars in the 
auditorium, the 1958-59 season numbering six. 

National Air Museum. — Site for the new building for ihQ National 
Air Museum was approved during the year, and preliminary studio 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 9 

and estimates of planning costs are in progress. During the year 
341 specimens in 56 separate accessions were added to the aeronautical 
collections, including an early example of a German one-man heli- 
copter, a DM-1 delta-winged glider of World War II, the Jupiter 
"C" missile and the recovered nose cone of the Jupiter "C," the "Data- 
Sphere" (a recovered instrumented capsule from a long-range ballistic 
missile) , and a large quantity of documents and memorabilia pertain- 
ing to the pioneer rocketry research by Dr. Robert H. Goddard. 

National Zoological Park. — The Zoo accessioned 1,286 animals dur- 
ing the year. The net count at the close of the year was 2,384. Note- 
worthy among the additions were a herd of 14 reindeer from Kotzebue, 
a trio of Rocky Mountain goats and 5 pronghorns, 6 albatrosses, the 
first Dall sheep ever to be exhibited in an American zoo, and a pair of 
Pallas's cats. A female wisent was born in captivity. 

Canal Zone Biological Area. — About 400 persons visited the island 
during the year, including 54 scientists, students, and observers using 
the station's facilities for special researches, particularly in plant 
and insect studies, wildlife observation, nature writing, and 
photography. 

International Exchange Service. — As the official U.S. agency for 
the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary publications be- 
tween this comitry and other nations, the International Exchange 
Service handled during the year 1,129,476 packages of such publica- 
tions, weighing 767,389 pounds. 

National Gallery of Art. — The Gallery received 370 accessions dur- 
ing the year, by gift, loan, or deposit. Eight special exhibits were 
held, and 27 traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosen wald Col- 
lection were circulated elsewhere. Exhibitions from the "Index of 
American Design" were given 43 bookings m 17 States and the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, and 1 in Germany. More than 40,600 persons 
attended the general tours conducted by Gallery personnel, and more 
than 11,500 attended tours, lectures, and conferences by special ap- 
pointment. The Sunday afternoon auditorium lectures drew 14,500 
persons. The Sunday evening concerts in the east garden court were 
continued. 

Library. — The library received a total of 52,669 publications during 
the year, and 159 new exchanges were arranged. At the close of the 
year the holdings of the library and its branches aggregated 982,596 
volumes, including 586,722 in the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library 
of Congress but excluding unbound periodicals and reprints and 
separates of serial publications. 

Publications. — Eighty-one publications appeared under Smithso- 
nian imprint during the year. (See Report of Publications, p. 224, 
for full list.) Outstanding among these were: "Studies in Inverte- 



10 ANl^nJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

brate Morphology," papers by 18 contributors published in honor of 
Dr. Kobert Evans Snodgrass; "Pueblo del Arroyo, Chaco Canyon, 
New Mexico," by Neil M. Judd; "The Journals of Daniel Noble 
Johnson ( 1822-1863) , United States Navy," edited by Mendel L. Peter- 
son ; "First Book of Grasses," third edition, by Agnes Chase ; "Check- 
list of the Millipeds of North America," by Ralph V. Chamberlin 
and Richard L. Hoffman; "Ichneumon-flies of America North of 
Mexico," by Henry and Marjorie Townes; "The Native Brotherhoods : 
Modem Intertribal Organizations on the Northwest Coast," by Philip 
Drucker; "The North Alaska Eskimo: A Study in Ecology and 
Society," by Robert F. Spencer. 

Personnel. — Lawrence L. Oliver, buildings manager, retired on May 
31, 1959, after 38 years of service with the Institution. Charles C. 
Sinclair, assistant buildings manager, retired on February 24, 1959 ; 
he had been with the Smithsonian since 1935. 

Other changes in staff made during the year are noted as appro- 
priate in the reports of the various branches of the Institution that 
follow. 



Report on the United States National 
Museum 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi- 
tion and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1959 : 

COLLECTIONS 

Specimens incorporated into the national collections totaled 
1,144,445, distributed among the eight departments as follows: An- 
thropology, 14,497; zoology, 452,163; botany, 50,641 ; geology, 139,070; 
Armed Forces history, 934; arts and manufactures, 12,699; civil 
history, 469,612; science and technology, 4,829. This increase is 
smaller than last year, when an unusual accretion resulted from the 
accession of a large number of stamps. This year's total is a more 
normal figure. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from 
individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agen- 
cies. The Annual Report of the Museum, published as a separate 
document, contains a detailed list of the year's acquisitions, of which 
the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries in all 
departments now total 52,022,520. 

Anthropology. — Prince Norodom Sihanouk, formerly King of 
Cambodia and now Prime Minister of that coimtry, presented to 
the people of the United States through President Dwight D, Eisen- 
hower a fine example of a stone Buddha, seated on a coiled serpent 
(the King Muchilinda) and protected by a crown of seven heads of 
the serpent. The Buddha was made in the Cambodian city of Angkor 
Thom during the reign of King Jayavarmon VII, A.D. 1181-1215. 

Four collections, totaling 249 specimens, were received by transfer 
from the Department of the Interior, through Delmas H, Nucker, 
High Commissioner, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, from the 
districts of Yap, Truk, Ponape, and the Marshall Islands. These 
specimens, obtained especially for the division of ethnology, con- 
siderably enrich the material from Micronesia, an area until now not 
well represented in the national collections. Among tliem are two 
fishing kites from If alik, which are flown from canoes and from which 
dangle a ball of cobwebs for catching garfish. After a fish strikes 
the sticky substance it cannot open its mouth. There is a war 
club from Satawan, some excellent knuckle dusters and weather charm 

11 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

idols, belt looms with ring- woven fabrics, and a good stick chart used 
as a native navigational device by the Marshall Islanders. 

Several archeological accessions are of especial interest. One is a 
plaster cast of a colossal stone head of the Olmec culture (ca. 500 B.C.) , 
the original of which was found near San Lorenzo in southern Vera- 
cruz, Mexico. The cast was received in 31 pieces, which were assembled, 
painted, and placed on exhibit in the Highlights of Latin American 
Archeology Hall. A collection of primitive stone implements from 
northern Australia, collected by F. D. McCarthy, of the Australian 
Museum, and Frank M. Setzler during the Smithsonian-National Geo- 
graphic Society Arnhem Land Expedition in 1948, constitutes an mi- 
usual accession. Type samples and all unique specimens collected in 
British Guiana in 1952-53 by the Smithsonian Institution-Fulbright 
Research Fellowship Expedition have added much to the Museum's 
collections from South America. 

New accessions in the division of physical anthropology include a 
plaster cast of the Ganovce Neanderthal skull found in 1926 in a 
travertine quarry in northern Slovakia. The original is a travertine 
cast of the endocranial cavity with only a little adherent cranial bone 
still in place. So far as is known, no other copy of this important 
specimen has reached the United States. A skull (with parts of the 
skeleton) exhibiting filed teeth was found in January 1954 by Dr. 
Preston Holder in a burial pit at the great Cahokia Mound site in East 
St. Louis, 111. Although the pit contained the skeletal remains of a 
number of individuals, only the one skeleton has filed teeth, and the 
fact that it alone was articulated suggests that filed teeth were a sign 
of distinction. One of the conclusions reached, in a report published 
in the November 1958 Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences, 
is that the custom of tooth filing in the Mississippi Valley probably had 
its origin in Middle America but became attenuated and modified. 

Botany. — Significant gifts to the department of botany were 130 
slides of diatoms, presented by Mrs. Eloise Stump, Oak Park, 111.; 
6,133 specimens given by Goucher College, Baltimore, Md., consisting 
of their entire herbarium, including a large number of cryptogams ; 
388 plants of Australia from Dr. C. L. Wilson, Hanover, N.H.; and 
1,749 mosses contributed by E. C. Leonard from his personal collection. 

Among the numerous exchanges were 4,875 specimens of Sumatra 
and the East Indies from the University of Michigan ; 1,152 specimens 
of Canadian and Arctic plants, received from the Canada Department 
of Agriculture; 1,403 specimens from Cuba received from the Colegio 
de la Salle, Havana ; 921 specimens, collected in Argentina by T. M. 
Pedersen, from the Botanical Museum, University of Copenhagen; 
1,002 specimens of New Guinea and Australia from the Commonwealth 
Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia; 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 13 

352 plants, collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire in the "Lost World" region 
of Venezuela, from the New York Botanical Garden ; and 282 plants 
from the V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of 
the USSE, consisting of issues 81-84 of their "Herbarium of the Flora 
of the USSR" and "Decas I-V Hepaticae and Musci USSR 
Exsiccati." 

Several large collections were received with identifications requested, 
including 490 spechnens, collected in Colombia by Jean Langenheim, 
from the University of California; 943 plants of Santa Catarina, 
Brazil, from the Herbario "Barbosa Rodrigues," Itajai, Santa Cata- 
rina, Brazil ; and 268 miscellaneous South American specimens from 
the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. 

Dr. Mason E. Hale and Robert R. Ireland collected 4,295 lichens 
and 1,491 mosses on field trips in Virginia in connection with their 
research projects. Transferred from the Department of the Interior 
were 1,851 plants of Polynesia collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg. There 
were purchased from the Archbold Expeditions 1,902 specimens col- 
lected by L. J. Brass on the Fifth Archbold Expedition to New 
Guinea; from Paul Aellen, Basel, Switzerland, 1,140 specimens col- 
lected by Dr. K. Rechinger in Iran and Greece; and from Winifred 
M. A. Brooke, Liss, England, 830 plants she collected in Sarawak. 

Geology. — The legendary Hope diamond, the largest and most no- 
table of all blue diamonds, was presented on November 10, 1958, by 
Harry Winston, New York gem merchant and connoisseur. The 
Hope diamond ranks in importance with other famous gems, such 
as the Kohinoor, Cullman, and Regent, found only in the Crown 
Jewels of Europe. Because of its long and dramatic history, the 
legends built around it, and its rare, deep-blue color, the Hope dia- 
mond is probably the best known diamond in the world. Mr. Win- 
ston acquired it in 1949 from the estate of the late Mrs. Evalyn Walsh 
McLean, of Washington, who received it from her husband, Edward 
B. McLean, in 1911. Its known history prior to the McLean pur- 
chase dates from 1830, when David Eliason, a noted gem dealer, sold 
the stone to Henry Thomas Hope, an Irish squire and banker. The 
stone was shown at the London Exposition in 1851. In 1867 it was 
sold at Christie's in London. It was acquired in 1908 by the Sultan 
Habib Bey, but after the Young Turks Revolt the gem was again 
placed on the market and purchased by Mr. McLean in 1911. 

One of the world's finest collections of Chinese jade carvings was 
presented by the estate of Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen through her 
son, Edmund C. Monell. The collection comprises 130 pieces, carved 
in one or the other of the two jade minerals, nephrite or jadeite. Some 
of the specimens date from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644), but most 
are from the Ching Dynasty (1644r-1912). Noteworthy gifts in min- 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

erals received from individuals are: gentlielvite, Colorado, from 
Glenn R. Scott; opal, Nevada, from Mark C. Bandy; jade, Burma, 
from Martin L. Ehrmann ; milky quartz crystals, Colorado, from E. 
M. Gunnell ; gorceixite, French Equatorial Africa, from Mahlon Mil- 
ler; spangolite, Arizona, from Arch Oboler; and clinchedrite and 
roeblingite, New Jersey, from John S. Albanese. 

Important additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and ex- 
change include a collection of 249 specimens of exceptional rarity and 
quality ; a fine large crystal of phosphophyllite from Bolivia ; a crys- 
tal of beryl, variety aquamarine, from Brazil; bikitaite from South- 
ern Ehodesia; an unusually large mass of thorite from Colorado; 
danburite from Mexico; and four tourmaline crystals from 
Mozambique. 

Several items of outstanding exhibition quality were added to the 
Canfield collection by purchase. Among these are proustite from 
Chile; spodumene from Brazil; pyrite from Colorado; euclase from 
Brazil ; smoky quartz from Switzerland ; and cyrtolite from Colorado. 

Gems and jewels acquired for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase 
from the Chamberlain fund include a 10.8-carat kornerupine from 
Madagascar; an 18.o-carat golden sphalerite from Utah; a colorless 
zircon from Ceylon, weighing 48.2 carats ; a star garnet sphere weigh- 
ing 67.3 carats, from Idaho ; and a 43.4-carat sinhalite from Ceylon. 

Important additions to the meteorite collection include the follow- 
ing : Ladder Creek, Kans., from the Argoime National Laboratory ; 
Vera, Santa Fe, Argentina, from Lorenzo Orestes Giacomelli ; Belle 
Plaine, Kans., from Prof. Walter Scott Huston; Idutwa, Cape 
Province, South Africa, from Dr. Edgar D. Mountain ; Nuevo Laredo, 
Mexico, from C. C. Patterson; and Sikhote-Alin, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, from the USSR Academy of Sciences. 

In the division of vertebrate paleontology the outstanding acces- 
sion of the year resulted from fieldwork by Peter P. Vaughn, who 
obtained excellent materials representing a number of genera of fishes, 
amphibians, and reptiles from the Clyde and Arroyo formations of 
Baylor County, Tex. A dinosaur bone, the largest known from this 
country, 6 feet 10 inches long, a humerus of the Jurassic genus 
Brachiosawus^ was donated by D. E. Jones. Two accessions of fossil 
fishes received in exchanges furnished exhibition material: one, a 
specimen of the Triassic coelacanth Diplurus neioarki^ together with 
its life restoration to scale, was received from Princeton University ; 
the other includes 81 specimens of fossil sharks and ray-finned fishes 
from two marine Upper Cretaceous formations in Lebanon from the 
School of Engineering, American University of Beirut, through Dr. 
Harry M. Smith. Of mammalian materials acquired, the skull of the 
Miocene whale Cetotheriunn megaloyhysum is outstanding. It was 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 15 

collected by Capts. Daniel and Edward Harrison of Ewell, Md., and 
was presented by the Ewell Junior High School. 

Among the important gifts received in the division of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany are 7,345 specimens of Carboniferous 
plants collected by Dr. Harvey Bassler, received from the Maryland 
Department of Geology, Mines, and Water Resources, Johns Hopkins 
University; 23 type specimens of Miocene mollusks from the Chesa- 
peake Bay area from Dr. John Oleksyshyn, Boston University ; 144 
slides of Recent Foraminifera and Ostracoda from the Antarctic 
from Rear Adm. Charles W. Thomas; 63 specimens of Oligomiocene 
ostracods from the Brasso formation of Trinidad from Dr. W. A. van 
den Bold; 200 Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from Israel from Dr. J. 
Wahrman ; and 263 foraminifera! concentrates and well cuttings from 
Italian Somalia from the Sinclair Oil and Gas Co. 

Through funds provided by the Walcott bequest 438 invertebrate 
fossils, including over 400 goniatites from Oklahoma, were acquired 
by the Museum. A grant from the National Science Foundation 
permitted Associate Curator Porter M. Kier to collect 1,490 echinoids 
and other invertebrate fossils in Belgium, France, Holland, and 
Switzerland. 

Among the important exchanges received are 750 specimens of as- 
sorted invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Tertiary of Great 
Britain from Sgt. Philip Cambridge; 61 blocks of Permian lime- 
stone from West Texas from Harvard University through Dr. H. B. 
Whittington; and one specimen of the very rare brachiopod Enomtios- 
phen from the Devonian of Germany donated by Dr. Wolfgang 
Struve, Senckenberg Museum, Frankfurt, Germany. 

Zoology. — The largest accession and the largest single collection to 
be received in the division of mammals in several years includes more 
than 1,600 specimens from Panama collected by C. O. Handley, Jr., 
and Bernard Feinstein in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial 
Laboratoiy. More than a hundred mammals, including a specimen 
of the rare suni antelope, were collected in East Africa and presented 
by Judge Russell E. Train. Antarctic explorations connected with 
the International Geophysical Year, under the auspices of the Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences, brought a specimen of the rare Ross seal. 
Individual specimens of unusual interest are the skin of a snow leopard 
collected in the Himalayas by Maj. Gen. M. Hayaud Din and pre- 
sented by the Embassy of Pakistan, and the unique type specimens 
of a new race of the large spiny rat Haplomys gyTnnuruB collected 
by Dr. A. Wetmore on the tiny island of Escudo de Veraguas, 
Panama. 

An important accession to the bird collection consisted of 572 bird- 
skins amassed in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore. Another large acces- 



16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

sion of 591 skins of birds and other ornithological material from 
North America was transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service, 
Department of the Interior. The Public Health Service, Depart- 
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, also transferred 75 bird- 
skins from Arctic America. The rarest single specimen received was 
a lyre-tailed honeyguide, Malichneutes rohustus, from Cameroons, 
a gift from the Zoological Society of London. This is the second 
known example of this bird to come to an American museum. 

In reptilian and amphibian material a nmnber of accessions of types 
and paratypes of recently described species was received, the most 
notable single lot being a gift of 172 specimens from Haiti, Cuba, 
and Trinidad, received from Dr. W. G. Lynn. 

The division of fishes received two large collections of fresh- water 
fishes from the eastern United States. One of these, comprising 
25,057 specimens, is an exchange from the University of South Caro- 
lina through Dr. Harry Freeman; the other, consisting of 25,000 
fishes, was donated by the University of Maryland through Dr. G. W. 
Wharton. The Woods Plole Oceanographic Institution gave 852 
fishes from Labrador through Dr. Eichard H. Backus. A very fine 
collection totaling 2,449 fishes from the eastern Pacific was presented 
by the University of California through Wayne J. Baldwin. This 
group includes numerous species not otherwise represented in the 
national collections. 

Several outstanding collections were acquired by the division of 
insects: the Monros collection of 54,245 chrysomelid beetles trans- 
ferred by the U.S. Department of Agriculture; 30,507 insects col- 
lected in El Salvador by O. L. Cartwright; 26,385 specimens of 
beetles from Europe, Asia, and the Americas, collected and donated 
by Paul J. Spangler; the Fish and Wildlife Service transferred 
33,063 miscellaneous New World insects through Dr. Daniel L. Leedy ; 
N. L. H. Kraus presented 6,924 insects from Asia, from many locali- 
ties not previously represented in the national collections. Other im- 
portant accessions are as follows : From Dr. W. B. Muchmore some 
800 New York State centipedes, providing valuable records being in- 
corporated into a statewide survey that is currently in preparation; 
from Dr. Thomas C. Barr, Jr., a number of cave collections of centi- 
pedes, giving information about unexplored fauna; and from Dr. 
George E. Ball, some 1,000 centipedes, comprising the largest chilopod 
collection known to date from Alaska and adjacent islands. 

The outstanding accession of mollusks was a gift from Dr. R. L. 
Alsaker of some 280 specimens of marine species of the family Yolu- 
tidae, including many rare and beautful forms. Other notable ac- 
cessions include 900 lots, 3,100 specimens, of mollusks from the British 
Virgin Islands and the Leeward Islands, collected by the Bredin- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 17 

Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition; 178 lots, 1,225 specimens, of 
marine, fresh-water, and land mollusks from Chile, a gift of Dr. 
Walter Kiese ; and 279 lots, 521 specimens, of marine mollusks from 
Mozambique, purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fmid. 

The division of marine invertebrates received 7,685 specimens col- 
lected by the Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition. Dr. R. E. 
Coker donated over 3,400 crustaceans, largely copepods, and Dr. T. E. 
Bowman presented his collection of 7,154 miscellaneous mvertebrates. 
Type material was included in the following gifts : 397 copepod crusta- 
ceans from Dr. Arthur G. Humes ; 8 hermit crabs, including 3 para- 
types of three species from Anthony J. Provenzano ; and 3 paratypes 
of a species of an ostracod crustacean from Dr. Eugene W. Kozloff. 
One small accession, a gift from R. P. Higgins, of the holotype and 
two paratypes of a species of Echinodera added the first representa- 
tives of this little-known phylum of the Animal Kingdom to the na- 
tional collections. 

Civil history. — Several gifts enhanced the furniture collection in 
the division of cultural history. A Louis IV commode with marble 
top, labeled with the maker's name, "M. Cresson," was given by Mr. 
and Mrs. William W. Wickes, and a painted Tyrolean wardrobe on 
frame was presented by the estate of Dr. Elisabeth Lotte Franzos. 
Mrs. H. B. Blackmar gave a Connecticut cherry "highboy," an Em- 
pire sofa, and several chairs ; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Rothschild donated 
an American secretary-bookcase, a chest of drawers, and a card table, 
all late 18th century ; and Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Monell presented 
several examples of Chinese lacquered furniture. 

Three outstanding acquisitions of architectural importance were 
made this year. An entire room and numerous fragments were ob- 
tained from tlie Gothic Revival-style Harral-Wheeler house in Bridge- 
port, Conn., designed by Andrew Jackson Davis about 1848. The 
material was given by the city of Bridgeport upon dismantling. A 
wide variety of cast-iron architectural fragments from office buildings 
and store fronts of the now- demolished old mercantile section of St. 
Louis was transferred by the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial 
of the National Park Service. An entire loghouse, built in Wilming- 
ton, Del., in the German tradition in the late 18th century, was given 
by the Board of Trustees and Building Commission of the Henry C. 
Conrad School Department of Wilmington. Other gifts include a 
pair of 18th-century wine coolers used in the Winter Palace of St. 
Petersburg and a silver tea and coffee service originally owned by 
Czar Alexander I from Col. William E. Shipp, an American Empire- 
style silver tea and coffee service from Mrs. Mary A. Swanton, and a 
Pennsylvanian stove plate, dated 1784, from the Union Fork 
& Hoe Co. 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The division of political history received important new additions 
to the White House china collection. Henry Francis Du Pont 
donated a dessert service purchased for the White House during the 
administration of Monroe. The china has an amaranthine border 
with vignettes representing military might, agriculture, commerce, 
art, and science, and was made in France by Dagoty. Outstanding 
accessions to the collection of American period costume were an early 
dress of homespun cotton, given by Mrs. Charles D. Collins; a dress 
and wedding petticoats of the early 19th century, a gift of the Misses 
Marion and Elinor Abbot; a collection of late 19th- and early 20th- 
century costumes, presented by Miss Eleanor P. Custis ; and a wedding 
dress and other costmnes of the 1890's of historic importance because 
of their connection with famous South Carolina families, the gift of 
Mrs. Pinckney Alston Trapier. A flag which had been hung out in 
mourning at the time of Lincoln's death was donated by John M. 
Harlan, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. 

The donation of Mrs. Catherine E. BuUowa, consisting of 21,531 
coins, medals, and paper currencies, is an important addition to the 
numismatic collection. Of special interest m this series is a group of 
504 early German and Italian silver and copper coins, dating from 
the 11th through the 16th centuries, and a collection of 62 German 
patterns engraved by C. Goetz at the Munich Mint after World War 
I. Another noteworthy accession is the President Dwight D. Eisen- 
hower collection of coins, medals, and memorabilia, including a group 
of 149 gold, silver, and copper mintings covering all periods of his- 
tory from Ancient Greece to modern times. Especially remarkable 
are the silver shekel from Judea struck during the first revolt against 
the Komans in A.D. 66-70 and a silver shekel from Tyre, Phoenicia, 
considered similar to the "thirty pieces of silver" of the Bible. 
A set of 14 gold medals issued by the Italo- Venezuelan Bank portray- 
ing World War II leaders and a 20-dollar gold piece engraved on 
the reverse "Reims, May 7, 1945, 0240" are part of a group of coins 
bearing special dedications to President Eisenhower. 

A collection of nine medals and plaques engraved by the American 
medalist Victor D. Brenner was received from the Eric P. Newman 
Numismatic Education Society of St. Louis. An important collection 
of 307 proclamation pieces, struck by different Mexican cities and or- 
ganizations in the late 18th and early 19th centuries in commemora- 
tion of the late Spanish kings, was presented by Joseph B. Stack. 

Former Postmaster General James A. Farley converted two addi- 
tional units from loan to gift in the division of philately and postal 
history, thus concluding the transaction begun in 1956. Two collec- 
tions of inestimable reference value were transferred from the Library 
of Congress — the Ackerman collection of U.S. die and plate proofs in 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 19 

three volumes features postage, and the Clarence H. Eagle collection 
of U.S. revenue proofs and essays includes a comprehensive showing 
of match and medicine varieties. John P. V. Pleinmuller donated his 
prize-winning collection of Zeppelin covers. Housed in 21 volumes, 
the collection portrays the early experimental flights of the 1908-10 
period, World War I, and all flights of the Graf Zeppelin. One in- 
teresting specimen is a scorched cover carried on the ill-fated flight 
of the Zeppelin Hinderiberg, which burned at Lakehurst, N.J., May 
6, 1937. Comdr, W. R. Anderson, Commanding Officer, U.S. Navy 
submarine Nautilus, presented in the name of the Navy and his crew 
the rubber canceling devices made by the crew members and used to 
cachet envelopes in commemoration of the first navigation by sub- 
marine beneath the polar icecap. 

Armed Forces history. — Among the outstanding material received 
in Armed Forces history were early U.S. military and naval insignia 
from the unique W. Stokes Kirk collection, a very rare pair of epaulets 
owned by Gen. George Washington acquired from Mrs. Janet Ran- 
dolph Ball Haden, and an early 19th-century broadax from the Fort 
Ticonderoga Museum. Transferred from the U.S. Naval Academy 
were 17 builders' half models of early naval vessels, and examples 
of diving gear were received from the Experimental Diving Unit, 
Department of the Navy. 

Original drawings numbering 177 of plans for U.S. sailing ships 
were presented by Howard I. Chapelle, author of the important work 
"The History of the American Sailing Navy." Frank Mather Archer 
presented an excellent example of the type of uniform coat worn 
by a lieutenant of the U.S. Infantry during the period of 1828-36. 
An outstanding collection of prints and books illustrating European 
imiforms and equipment was presented by Col. William E. Shipp. 
Edward B. Tucker of Somerset, Bermuda, donated objects recovered 
from 16th- and 19th-century shipwrecks. Collections of objects re- 
covered from 18th-century shipwreck sites in Florida were received 
through the courtesy of Edwin A. Link, Arthur McKee, and Dr. and 
Mrs. George Crile, Jr. An iron shot from the site of the 16th-century 
fortress of San Lorenzo was given by Karl P. Curtis of Panama. 

Arts and manufactures — An outstanding addition to the division of 
ceramics and glass is a collection of 600 pieces of Dutch and German 
pottery and stoneware, the gift of the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, 
Jr., Chief of Protocol, and Mrs. Buchanan. The collection is especially 
rich in Medieval Dutch household wares and Rhenish stoneware 
types, many of which are exhibited nowhere else in the United States. 
A noteworthy slip-decorated Rhenish jar from Pingsdorf, Germany, 
dated 12th or 13th century, is representative of the beginnings of the 
very important German stoneware industry. A ewer from Rheren 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

dated 1585, in almost perfect condition, is exceptional in that most 
wares of this type lack the spout or handle or both. The collection of 
170 glass items donated by Mrs. Clara W. Berwick includes a rare 
group comprising early American glass pieces of Stiegel and Amelung 
type, as well as later wares from the famous Sandwich factory in Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs. Mary Roebling gave three sculptured birds and the 
figures of horses by Edward Marshall Boehm. Mrs. George Hewitt 
Myers presented 48 pieces of Castleford porcelain made in England 
between 1790 and 1820. Among these rare items are teapots and 
pitchers decorated with an American eagle after the design of con- 
temporary coins. 

The division of graphic arts acquired an important group of fine 
prints. The selection of these examples by outstanding printmakers 
from the year 1500 to the present day made it possible to fill a number 
of significant gaps in the collection. The prints include an engraving 
by the Italian Renaissance master Marcantonio Raimondi, "St. Ce- 
celia" ; two prints by important French artists of the turn of the 20th 
century — a lithograph by Edouard Manet, "La Barricade," and a 
color lithograph by Edouard Vuillard, "Les Deux Belles Soeurs"; 
and an exceptionally fine impression of an etching by Rembrandt van 
Rijn, "Landscape with a Flock of Sheep." A 50-line halftone screen 
was presented by Max Levy & Co., Philadelphia, through Howard 
S. Levy ; R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago, through Walter L. 
Howe, gave a panel describing the rotogravure process ; and the firm 
of Edgerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., Boston, donated the first 
battery-operated portable electronic flash unit, invented by Dr. Harold 
E. Edgerton. 

The division of textiles received from Arthur E. "Wullschleger an 
18th-centui'y French hand-and-foot treadle loom to which a Jacquard 
head had been added in the 19th century. Mr. Wullschleger obtained 
the loom in Lyons, France, and it was renovated at Wedgewood Mills, 
Jewett City, Conn. An excellent model of the 1787 patent of Cart- 
wright's power loom, an invention unrepresented in the national 
collection, was made by Robert Klinger of the exhibits staff. A fine 
collection of 46 18th- and 19th-century printed cottons was given 
by Mrs. Kenneth Franzheim. Beautiful examples of contemporary 
hand- and power- woven fabrics were presented by the Irish Linen 
Guild, Potomac Craftsmen, Designer- Weavers, the American Cotton 
Manufacturers Institute, the Corduroy Coimcil, the International 
Silk Association, and the Man-Made Fibers Association. 

The division of industrial cooperation received the original equip- 
ment used in 1956-67 to carry out the experiments suggested by Nobel 
prize winners Dr. T. D. Lee of Columbia University and Dr. C. N. 
Yang of the Institute for Advanced Studies to demonstrate that in 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 21 

the decay of an elementary particle into another particle parity is 
not conserved. Examples of early seismometers used in exploration 
for oil were presented by the Continental Oil Co. 

Science and technology. — The most noteworthy accession acquired 
in the division of agriculture and wood products comprised 111 au- 
thentic wood samples of Santa Catarina, Brazil, collected and donated 
by Dr. Lyman B. Smith. A portable farm steam engine made in 
1877 by Frick & Co. was donated by this firm. 

Among the pieces of major importance added to the division of 
electricity are the following : A group of pieces constructed by Thomas 
Davenport, a Vermont blacksmith who obtained the first patent on 
an electric motor, given by Frank Chandler; and from the General 
Electric Kesearch Laboratory, replicas of Dr. Irving Langmuir's 
vacuum distillation pump and of his apparatus for measuring surface 
tension which was basic to the work for which he received the Nobel 
prize. Mrs. Edith Earle donated two examples of the telej)hone that 
her father, James H. Earle, made in the winter of 1876-77 at Brown 
Univei-sity under the direction of a group of professors there. The 
acoustical design of the group at Brown was incorporated in the 
design of the Bell telephone. 

The following significant objects were acquired in the division of 
mechanical and civil engineering: The personal watch of Edward 
Howard, considered the parent of all American factory-made watches, 
from the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association ; a rare and 
fine wagon-spring clock given by Mrs. Francis Boutelle Allen; and 
three noteworthy precision clocks presented by the Georgetown Uni- 
versity Observatory through Father F. J. Heyden. A valuable and 
attractive collection of early handmade locks, bolts, and decorative 
hardware, with pieces dating from the 16th century, was presented 
by the Yale & Towne Manufacturing Co. Two important early 
machine tools were received — an 1851 Bobbins and Lawrence chain- 
feed lathe given by Curtis Woodruff, and a Jones & Lamson turret 
lathe of about 1880 donated by George F. Kiley. A Porter- Allen 
steam engine, prototype of the compact high-speed steam engine 
which dominated the medium-size enguie field for many years, was 
presented by the Philadelphia Electric Co. 

The most significant acquisition in the division of medical sciences 
is a collection of dental instruments, furniture, and equipment relat- 
ing to the history of dentistry, totaling 2,869 specimens, received from 
the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry. This provides 
an excellent cross section of the equipment used by the dentist from 
the mid-19th century until the early 20th century, containing rare 
individual items such as an early ether mhaler and two extraction 
instrmnents. An important collection of material relating to the dis- 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

covery and development of the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine was con- 
tributed by the National Fomidation for Infantile Paralysis. This 
collection includes original flasks used by Dr. John F. Enders to 
<2:row polio viruses in cultures of human embryonic skin and muscle 
tissue ; a bottle and automatic rocker used at the University of Toronto 
Connaught Laboratories to grow polio virus in quantity ; syringe and 
residues of the first vaccines given by Dr. Jonas E. Salk; and the 
original draft of the report by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., evaluating 
the 1954 field trials of poliomyelitis vaccine. 

The division of physical sciences continued its efforts to acquire 
early scientific apparatus used in colleges. The majority of the ap- 
paratus collected this year is chemical, and the most noteworthy ac- 
cession is a group of instruments used by Ira Remsen at Johns Hop- 
kins University. Other outstanding items obtained are the first equa- 
torial telescope (1876) of the Warner & Swasey Co., the gift of that 
firm, and the first helium liquefier built in the United States in 1931 
donated by the National Bureau of Standards. 

Specimens of major importance acquired in the division of trans- 
portation are a model representing the sister ships Independeiice and 
Constitution, modern American liners, received from American Ex- 
port Lines, and the models of the Hudson Eiver steamer Francis 
Skiddy from F. Van Loon Ryder and the Narragansett Bay steamer 
Mount Hope from Mary T. Campbell. Other outstanding accessions 
include an oil-tank wagon from the Esso Standard Oil Co., a private 
coach, presented by Mrs. Richard Saltonstall through the interest of 
Senator Leverett Saltonstall, and a Conestoga wagon from Howard 
C. Frey. The private coach, a most significant addition, was built 
in 1851 by the famous carriage maker Thomas Goddard of Boston. 

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK 

The department of antliropology has underway an extensive pro- 
gram to revitalize the famous paintings of Indians by George Catlin. 
F. M. Setzler, head curator, went to Boston between May 26 and 28, 
1959, to investigate the progress of the renovations, which are being 
carried out under the guidance of Henri Courtais. Cleaning the 
painted surfaces involves a variety of methods and chemical solutions, 
depending on the condition of the painting and the canvas. A large 
percentage of the original Catlin paintmgs had been relined with a 
canvas about 75 years ago, when someone repainted the backgrounds 
of most of the paintings involved. This repainting was done on top 
of dirt, smoke, and water blemishes. The overpaint requires addi- 
tional time and effort to remove before Mr. Courtais and his assistants 
can clean the original painted surface. After this overpaint is re- 
moved, the excellence of the painting can be truly appreciated and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 23 

furtliermore the garments, feathers, and Indian and European orna- 
ments as depicted by Catlin can be readily identified. Mr. Courtais 
is continuing his work, and it is hoped that the entire program will 
be completed within the next 2 or 3 years. 

Between January 18 and 20, 1959, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator 
of archeology, visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York 
City to examine duplicate Egyptian antiquities with a view to obtain- 
ing objects suitable to our exhibits program. With the aid of Mrs. 
Virginia M. Pollak, Dr. Wedel selected 33 items for purchase. These 
include several reliefs, two baskets, a bedstead and stool, a wooden 
hawk case with hawk mummy, and a bronze hawk and small bronze 
mummy case. Practically all these will be suitable for exhibit and 
will provide displays that do not now exist in our Egyptian collec- 
tions. Early in May, following the annual meetings of the Society 
for American Archeology in Salt Lake City, Utah, Dr. Wedel de- 
voted several days to examination of the collections of the University 
of Utah Museum, with particular reference to materials that are re- 
lated to Western Plains cultures. He also visited Ogden, Utah, where 
he examined an unusual collection, including many stone bowls and 
manos and a considerable variety of projectile points and stone orna- 
ments. The material acquired will be useful for exhibit and study 
purposes. 

Between July 7 and September 20, 1958, Dr. Clifford Evans, asso- 
ciate curator of archeology, and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honorary 
research associate, visited Panama, Costa Rica, and Ecuador. They 
spent 4 days in Panama City examining collections in the Museo 
Nacional and discussing problems of museum modernization with the 
director. They also discussed in detail the possibilities of collabora- 
tive research, using the services of H. Morgan Smith, involving arche- 
ological sites now being discovered or destroyed by road or building 
construction. Subsequently Mr. Smith was appointed a collaborator 
of the Smithsonian Institution . 

Between July 19 and July 28, Drs. Evans and Meggers participated 
in the 33d International Congress of Americanists at San Jose, Costa 
Rica. This very successful meeting was attended by a large repre- 
sentation of scientists from Latin America, North America, and 
Europe. The Smithsonian Institution representatives participated in 
several important symposia dealing with the problem of the Forma- 
tive Period in Mesoamerica and South America, in addition to deliver- 
ing a scientific paper on the preliminary results of their archeological 
investigations in the headwaters of the Orinoco. At this meeting, 
Middle American and South American specialists decided that a 
coordinated program of research toward a solution of a specific prob- 
lem will produce better results than individual research projects. A 

536608—60 3 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SAOTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

committee was appointed to organize research centering on the im- 
portance of Mesoamerican and northern South American comiections 
from the Formative Period up to Spanish Contact, and Dr. Evans 
accepted the secretaryship of this committee. 

Proceeding to Guayaquil, Ecuador, on July 28, Drs. Evans and 
Meggers continued their archeological research in cooperation with 
Emilio Estrada, Director of the Museo Arqueologico "Victor Emilio 
Estrada." This research was principally directed toward filling in 
certain gaps in the sequences that have been worked out in the past 5 
years by Estrada, Evans, and Meggers for the south coast. It is felt 
that progress toward the solution of this problem is now being made. 
On their return trip Drs. Evans and Meggers stopped briefly in New 
Orleans and visited specialists at Tulane University. In March 1959, 
Dr. Evans examined collections at the Heye Foundation in New York 
City to study important material referring to coastal Ecuador ; many 
photographs were taken which will serve as a basis for future study. 

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, associate curator of archeology, visited Uni- 
versity Park and Philadelphia, Pa., between September 15 and 19, 
1958. At Pennsylvania State University he consulted with staff mem- 
bers about field work in the Near East and viewed the ceramic collec- 
tions made by Dr. Dupree and Dr. Matson of the State University staff, 
in connection with the material recovered by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Shanidar project. At the University Museum at Philadelphia, 
Dr. Solecki conferred with staff members concerning fieldwork in 
Iran and Iraq. A general survey of the Old World archeological 
collections was made in order to ascertain what materials are lacking 
in the Smithsonian collections. 

During the period March 15 to April 8, 1959, Dr. Solecki was de- 
tailed to participate in a UNESCO meeting in Paris, called to discuss 
measures to minimize the unfavorable effects of large-scale engineer- 
ing works upon items of cultural interest as well as upon the ecologi- 
cal conditions of the regions affected. Dr. Solecki conferred with the 
Secretariat of UNESCO and the Bureau of the International Com- 
mittee on Monuments on matters of procedure regarding the prob- 
lem. He prepared a summary statement of the problems involved and 
suggested solutions, and subsequently participated in a regular meet- 
ing of the Bureau of the International Committee on Monuments 
on April 2. In Paris, and also in London, Dr. Solecki visited several 
museums and scientific institutions to arrange possible archeological 
exchanges between these institutions and the Smithsonian Institution. 

From December 1 to 14, 1958, Dr. S. H. Riesenberg, curator of eth- 
nology, visited the Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass., and Harvard 
University. He continued his study of Micronesian ethnographical 
collections at the Peabody Museum and also examined and abstracted 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 25 

pertinent Caroline Islands materials from important collections of 
early American ships' logs, journals, and manuscripts of early voy- 
ages contained in the archives of that museum and the Essex Insti- 
tute. Parallel studies were made in the Harvard Peabody Museum 
and in the Houghton Library of Harvard University, where many 
pertinent ethnohistorical manuscript records of the American Board 
of Commissioners for Foreign Missions are housed. Such museum 
and library studies are aiding Dr. Riesenberg in his projected analysis 
of Micronesian material culture, which is an attempt to place Micro- 
nesia in its proper etlinological position with respect to Pacific island 
cultural development and history. A trip for the same purposes was 
made by Dr. Riesenberg to the Chicago Natural History Museum be- 
tween March 9 and 13, 1959. At this important museum he examined 
and studied the collections of important ethnographical materials 
from the Caroline and Marshall Islands. 

In continuation of his African studies. Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, asso- 
ciate curator of ethnology, spent the week of May 18 to 23, 1959, 
examining etlmological materials from Angola in the collections of the 
Chicago Natural History Museum and in conferring with staff mem- 
bers with respect to the identification of African specimens in our 
collections, certain problems of museum display, the possibility of 
exchanging specimens, and problems comiected with his research. 
The Chicago Natural History Museum has probably the largest col- 
lection of Angolan ethnological materials in the United States, and 
therefore the opportunity to study these materials at firsthand was 
a significant aid to the progress of Dr. Gibson's research on the eth- 
nology of the southwestern Bantu. 

In the latter part of July and early in August 1958 Dr. T. Dale 
Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, visited several coun- 
tries in Central America. Together with Dr. Evans and Dr. ^ieggers, 
he visited the National Museum in Panama, where, as indicated above, 
the Smithsonian Institution party was veiy well received. They 
made a brief trip to the San Bias Islands on the Atlantic side of the 
Isthmus, in order to see firsthand the San Bias or Cuna Indians liv- 
ing thereon. These Indians have kept themselves pureblooded and 
therefore offer opportunities for research. Dr. Stewart also attended 
the 33d International Congress of Americanists in San Jose, Costa 
Rica. Like Drs. Evans and Meggers, he was asked to act as chairman 
at one of the sessions, and in addition he read an invited paper. It is 
felt that the Smithsonian Institution staff has been and still is at 
work in a critical area for the solution of problems referring to pre- 
historic cultures of Central America and the coast of Ecuador. 

Following the congress. Dr. and Mrs. Stewart went north to Guate- 
mala, where they were joined by about 20 anthropologists. On 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 1959 

August 1, as guests of the Guatemalan Government, they were flown 
into Tikal, a great Mayan ruin being excavated and restored by the 
University of Pennsylvania. The travelers also made a quick trip to 
Lake Atitlan and to Chichicastenango. Because of his work on the 
living Indians in this area in 1947 and 1949, Dr. Stewart was inter- 
ested to observe the rate of acculturation here. As far as he could 
judge, there was very little change since his last visit. In Mexico City 
Dr. and Mrs. Stewart called at the National Museum and subsequently 
examined some promising fossil sites in the Valley of Mexico, where 
a new excavation is being made and a human skull was found at the 
Pleistocene level. During the visit to Mexico City Dr. Stewart ob- 
tained considerable information that will be of use to him in working 
for the Handbook of Latin American Studies and the projected Hand- 
book of Middle American Indians. 

Between March 25 and April 13, 1959, Dr. Stewart was detailed to 
travel to Czechoslovakia to act as the official U.S. representative at 
ceremonies honoring the 90th birthday of the late Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, 
who for so long was curator of physical anthropology at the Smith- 
sonian Institution. At formal ceremonies in Prague, Dr. Stewart 
had the opportunity to stress the fact of Hrdlicka's American citizen- 
ship. In his address to the delegates he was able to point out that 
only in America could Hrdlicka have achieved his fame as an anthro- 
pologist. Later the celebration moved to Humpolec, Hrdlicka's 
birthplace, 80 or 90 miles from Prague. Here Dr. Stewart and other 
delegates were taken through the local high school, which has been 
renamed for Hrdlicka. They also visited the site of his home, saw 
the street named for him, and visited various local institutions. At a 
celebration Dr. Stewart again had an opportunity to say something 
about Dr. Hrdlicka's life in America and the opportunity for scien- 
tific research in this country. On March 31 he participated in scien- 
tific meetings at the Institute of Anthropology at Charles University 
in Prague, on this occasion giving the delegates a report of his study 
of the Shanidar skeleton. This visit to Prague gave Dr. Stewart 
an opportunity to meet several of his colleagues whom he has previ- 
ously known by correspondence. On his return trip Dr. Stewart made 
a brief stop in Zurich to visit the Anthropological Institute. In Lon- 
don he visited the British ISIuseum to examine the Mount Carmel 
Neanderthal remains, this visit providing him with a very profitable 
2 days of research. 

In March 1959 Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerograms, vis- 
ited Cambridge, Mass., to study Herbarium material and to verify 
bibliographic references in the Harvard Herbarium in connection 
with his research on the family Bromeliaeae and the flora of Santa 
Catarina, Brazil. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 27 

Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams, visited 
the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University and the New York 
Botanical Garden in November 1958 in connection with his work on 
the Index Nomina Genericorum, the flora of Santa Catarina, and 
plants of the Guyana Highland. At the second of these institutions 
he conferred with Drs. Maguire and Wurdack for the purpose of 
outlining in a general way the structure and content as well as the geo- 
graphic limits of the proposed Flora of Guyana. Dr. Cowan also 
represented the department of botany on the 1959 Smithsonian-Bredin 
Expedition. 

In connection with her continuing studies of Ormosia and other 
genera of the family Leguminosae, Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate 
curator of phanerogams, visited New York and Philadelphia in No- 
vember and Chicago in December 1958. At the New York Botan- 
ical Garden, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and 
the Chicago Natural Histoiy Museum she surveyed the available study 
materials in groups of interest to her, and selected specimens for 
borrowing. 

Between August 20 and 24, 1958, C. V. Morton, curator of ferns, 
participated in the annual summer foray of the American Fern So- 
ciety in southern Ohio, after which he attended the meetings of the 
American Institute of Biological Sciences at Indiana University. 
In November and December he studied in the herbarium and library 
of the Harvard University Herbarium in Cambridge in order to check 
the bibliographical citations for the Index Nomina Genericorum. 
In connection with the same project he also visited the New York 
Botanical Garden. 

In July 1958 Dr. Mason E. Hale, associate curator of cryptogams, 
spent several days in southwestern Virginia and the adjacent area 
of Temiessee in company with R. R. Ireland, assistant curator of 
cryptogams, in pursuance of his fieldwork on Appalachian lichens. 
This study, undertaken with the aid of a grant from the National 
Science Foundation, has resulted in the collection of many specimens 
of lichens in the area. In February 1959 Dr. Hale spent several 
days in the cryptogamic herbarium of Duke University, examining 
lichens in the very important Harmand Herbarium with particular 
reference to the study of the lichen flora of the central Appalachian 
Mountains. In May he contmued his work on the same project by 
studying in the rich cryptogamic library and herbarium of Harvard 
University. 

Dr. Herbert Friedmann, head curator of the department of zoology, 
spent the period between July 7 and 26, 1958, in England, principally 
to attend the 15th International Congress of Zoology in London and 
a colloquium on zoological nomenclature. The congress, attended by 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SAHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

more than 1,900 zoologists from all over tlie world, marked the cen- 
tenary of the first annomicement of the theory of evolution by natural 
selection by Darwin and Wallace. Dr. Friedmann presented a paper 
on some of his current work on wax digestion in honeyguides and its 
microbiological implications. In October 1958 Dr. Friedmann repre- 
sented the Museum of Natural History at a conference bringing to- 
gether the directors of systematic collections, held at the New York 
State Museum in Albany. 

On January 21, 1959, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, honorary research 
associate and retired Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, re- 
turned to Panama to contmue the survey of the birdlif e of the Istlimus. 
The first few days, at Juan Mina, on the Rio Chagres, he devoted 
to study of limpkins, tropical yellow rails, least bitterns, and other 
water birds concerning which little information has been available. 
On February 6 he left Panama City for El Eeal in eastern Darien, 
where, tlu'ough the kind assistance of Frank L. Greene, resident man- 
ager of the oil company, Panamanian Delhi Petrolera, Inc., in Panama 
City, and Hemz Meyer, in charge at El Real, storage for part of the 
field outfit and other facilities were made available. On February 
9 he continued by dugout canoe (piragua) up the Rio Tuira and the 
following day reached the point where the Rio Paya, which has its 
headwaters in Colombia, enters the larger stream. This is a region 
of high forest with few small, scattered clearings, made by Choco 
Indians or an occasional pioneer settler from elsewhere. Tropical- 
zone forest birds were present in great variety of species, but so widely 
scattered through the vast forests of huge, tall trees that much search 
was required to find the more unusual kinds. Many are of South 
^Vmerican afiinity, as there is only a low divide between the upper 
Paya drainage and the lower Atrato Basin of northwestern Colombia. 
The collections and notes obtained here were thus of especial 
importance. 

On March 18 Dr. Wetmore returned to El Real, to continue by 
dugout the following morning up the Rio Chucmiaque in company 
with the engineer, William Sun, to a camp of the oil company above 
the mouth of the Rio Tuquesa. This also is a region of vast primitive 
forest, with a few Indian families living along the streams. Birds 
were common, with numbers of unusual kinds not found on the Tuira, 
so that the work here added much of value, particularly since the 
region worked between the Tuquesa and Ucurganti Rivers was one 
that scientifically had been unknown. In addition, there was the 
advantage of the engineer camp, with its small screened houses, elec- 
tric light at night, and other facilities. The work closed on April 
3 with return to El Real and from there to the Canal Zone on April 
6 and to Washington on April 14. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 29 

During April and early May 1959, three members of the staff of the 
Museum of Natural History accompanied the 1959 Smdthsonian- 
Bredin Caribbean Expedition, made possible through the generosity 
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del. This was the 
fifth of a series of expeditions organized by Mr. Bredin in collabora- 
tion with the Smithsonian Institution, and the third in which he has 
personally taken an active part. As on the previous expeditions. 
Dr. Waldo L. Sclmiitt, research associate, was in charge of fiekl opera- 
tions. The other Smithsonian scientists participating were Dr. 
Thomas E. Bowman, associate curator of marine invertebrates and 
specialist on copepods, and Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator 
of phanerogams. Dr. Cowan left in advance of the other members 
and spent the period between March 19 and April 2 on the island 
of Trinidad, where he made headquarters at the Imperial College of 
Tropical Agriculture, near Port-of-Spain. Excellent facilities pro- 
vided by this college enabled him to reach several areas in Trinidad 
from which our department of botany had only limited collections 
heretofore. 

The expeditionary party included, besides Mr. Bredin, John Finlay 
of Varadero, Cuba, expert malacologist ; Dr. Richard F. Darsie, Jr., 
entomologist of the College of Agriculture of the University of Del- 
aware, especially interested in tropical mosquitoes and their life his- 
tories; and William H. Amos, head of the science department of St. 
Andrews School, Middletown, Del., photographer to the expedition. 
They departed from Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, on the yacht Caribee 
on April 3 for the island of Tobago. Following several days of inten- 
sive work on the famed Bucco Reef off the west side of Tobago, where 
they obtained valuable invertebrate material, and a visit to the bird- 
of-paradise sanctuary on Little Tobago, the party made brief stops 
at Dominica, St. Lucia, Montserrat, Barbuda, and Antigua, where 
the labors of the expedition were concluded on May 5. Most interest- 
ing specimens of reef fishes were obtained off the windward side of 
Barbuda. On this island a series of caves explored by earlier Smith- 
sonian-Bredin expeditions had yielded several unknown species of 
crustaceans, of which more extensive material was much desired; 
supplementary specimens were taken in traps carried along this year 
for the purpose. Many bats inhabiting a large cave on Antigua were 
captured primarily for a study that Dr. Darsie wished to make of 
their ectoparasites. This third trip to the Lesser Antilles sponsored 
by Mr. and Mrs. Bredin has still further enhanced the collections of 
the Smithsonian Institution from that important area, in which still 
further undescribed Sj^ecies of marine life have been discovered. 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate curator of mammals, spent 
December 1 to 12, 1958, visiting the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
Philadelphia, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard Uni- 
versity, and the American Museum of Natural History in New York 
to study types and other specimens pertinent to research projects in 
progress. Accompanied by Bernard R. Feinstein, museum aide in the 
division of birds. Dr. Handley continued his mammal survey of Pan- 
ama between January 15 and March 27, 1959, working in the portion 
of Darien adjacent to the Colombian boundary. Members of the 
party reached mountainous areas where zoologists have not previously 
collected. As a result of the trip, collections totaled more than 1,500 
mammals and several hundred birds, reptiles, and various insects and 
other animals. Conditions for netting bats were especially good, and 
new techniques were developed. No fewer than 45 species of bats 
were obtained, possibly a record high for this country. It is planned 
to continue this project, which is sponsored by the Gorgas Memorial 
Laboratory, Panama. In continuation of his research on the mammal 
fauna of the southeastern United States, Dr. Handley spent two pe- 
riods collecting in Virginia in May 1959. One of these trips took him 
to the peninsulas on the west side of Chesapeake Bay and the other 
to some of the northernmost ridges of the Great Smoky Mountains. 
The mammal specimens preserved on these trips will add to the back- 
ground material for his continuing research. 

Between March 18 and 23, 1959, Herbert G. Deignan, associate 
curator of birds, visited England, primarily to participate in the cen- 
tenary celebration of the British Ornithologists' Union, which was 
held at Cambridge. The meetings were largely devoted to series of 
symposia on various aspects of ornithology. 

Dr. Ernest A. Laclmer, associate curator of fishes, attended the 
annual meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences in 
Bloomington, Ind. Wliile there he examined the fish collections of 
the university and on the return trip to Wasliington studied the fish 
collection at the University of Louisville. Dr. Lachner was accom- 
panied by Dr. William R. Taylor, associate curator of fishes. On 
their return east the two ichthyologists made collections in streams 
draining Kentuckj^, West Virginia, and Virginia. 

Between November 3 and 8, 1958, Drs. Lachner and Taylor made 
a trip to the University of South Carolina to prepare and pack major 
portions of the fish collection of that institution for shipping to the 
Smithsonian Institution. This valuable collection, consisting of about 
25,000 specimens, is composed of preserved material that is sure to be 
very useful for future group revisionary studies, especially since it 
comes from an area of the country not too well represented in the 
national collections. On the return trip Drs. Lachner and Taylor 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 31 

collected at an important locality in North Carolina and also visited 
the Marine Laboratory at the University of North Carolina, Morehead 
City, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Laboratory at Beaufort, 
N.C. 

With the aid of a grant from the National Science Foundation, Dr. 
J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of insects, made a trip to South America 
between December 29, 1958, and March 24, 1959, the major purpose of 
which was to obtain material of Microlepidoptera in localities not 
otherwise represented in the collections of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Dr. Clarke traveled widely in Colombia, making headquarters 
at Bogota, Cali, Popayan, Pasto, and Barranquilla. In Peru Dr. 
Clarke centered his work in Lima and Cusco, from which cities he was 
able to reach interesting collecting territory. A brief stop was made 
in the area of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and then he proceeded to Argen- 
tina, making his principal headquarters at Tucuman. Wliile at 
Tucuman Dr. Clarke prepared the valuable Monros collection of 
chrysomelid beetles for shipment to the National Museum. This 
collection adds greatly to the value of the holdings of South American 
insects in the Smithsonian Institution. He spent the latter part of his 
visit in Chile, collecting in the southern part of the coimtry in areas 
reached from Punta Arenas, Puerto Varas, Peulla, and Petrohue. 
Dr. Clarke collected about 15,000 specimens of insects of all groups, 
but particularly of the Microlepidoptera, which will serve as the 
major basis of his proposed revision of the South American species 
of this large and important group. 

Between May 9 and June 4, 1959, Oscar L. Cartwright, associate 
curator of insects, engaged in field research in Florida to collect Scara- 
baeidae, especially species of Onthophagus and Ataenius, genera he is 
at present revising. The trip traversed peninsular Florida as far 
south as Big Pine Key. Of the 2,356 insects collected, few have yet 
been identified to species, but there are among them new records for 
Florida and the United States and quite possibly some undescribed 
species. 

Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate curator of insects, spent the 
period July 14-18, 1958, in Cambridge, Mass., carrying on studies at 
the Museum of Comparative Zoology in connection with several re- 
search projects in chilopod systematics. 

Dr. Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator of marine invertebrates, 
visited Europe between July 17 and August 25, 1958, to attend the 
15th International Congress of Zoology in London and to visit several 
European museums for the purpose of evaluating the significance of 
their collections of octocorals to future studies and to examine speci- 
mens. Following the congress he visited museums in Leiden, Amster- 
dam, and Copenhagen, as well as the British Museum (Natural His- 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

tory) in London, and had an excellent opportunity to study important 
historic collections in the field of his speciality. 

In addition to participating in the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean 
Expedition discussed earlier, Dr. Thomas E. Bowman, associate 
curator of marine invertebrates, visited Puerto Kico for 2 weeks in 
early April 1959, at the request of Dr. Kobert M. Coker, who is 
directing a study of the zooplankton of the bays along the south- 
western coast. With headquarters at the Institute of Marine Biology, 
Dr. Bowman made extensive collections that will materially assist 
him in his project of identification of the copepods of the region. 

Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, spent the week of 
Febi-uary 16-23, 1959, in Florida, primarily to act as one of the judges 
of the annual show of tlie St. Petersburg Shell Club. The Smith- 
sonian Institution offers an annual award for the best exhibit in this 
show. Subsequently he visited the Marine Laboratoi-y of the Uni- 
versity of Miami, where he observed some of the current studies of 
staff members of level bottom marine invertebrate commmiities along 
the south Florida coast. 

Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator, department of geology, accom- 
panied by Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany, spent the period May 18-30, 1958, on a 
field trip to central New York. They were accompanied by Dr. Ger- 
trude Biemat, of Polska Akademia Nauk, Zaklad Paleozoologii, 
Warsaw, Poland, a visitor to the museum for several months, and 
by two members of the Geological Survey staff. They spent several 
days studying and collecting from the type section of the Hamilton 
group of the Devonian, which extends from Stockbridge Falls on 
the north to North Norwich on the south. The party was joined by 
other geologists, including Dr. Paul Sartenaer, of Belgium, and mem- 
bers of the staff of the New York State Museum, and with this com- 
pany a study of the facies changes which take place in the Tully 
formation was made. Subsequently sections were examined in the 
area of Cooperstown, Cobleskill, Albany, Kingston, N.Y., and 
Stroudsburg, Pa. Following this trip Dr. Boardman spent a few 
days at the New York State Museum at Albany to investigate the 
possibility of identifying bryozoan fragments in well cuttings in the 
Middle Devonian in New York State. 

During August 1958 Dr. George Switzer, curator of mineralogy 
and petrology, made an extended collecting trip to western localities, 
particularly to various individuals and well-known localities in Iowa, 
Colorado, New Mexico, California, and Montana. He obtained much 
material of value to the Smithsonian for purposes of study or exhibit. 
Accompanied by Paul E. Desautels, associate curator of mineralogy 
and petrology, Dr. Switzer made several other trips for the purpose 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 33 

of visiting mineral dealers and obtaining material for the Smith- 
sonian collections. Short visits were made to the American Museum 
of Natural History in New York and the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia; a valuable collection of minerals from the 
famous zinc mine at Franklin, N.J., was examined and purchases 
from it were made for the Smithsonian collections. During August 
1958 and March 1959 Mr. Desautels made separate trips to Asheville, 
N.C., and to several cities in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Mas- 
sachusetts to acquire and examine mineralogical specimens for the 
Musemn. 

E. P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy and petrology, 
spent the period November 30-December 10, 1958, in Boston, New 
Haven, and New York. He discussed meteorites with members of 
the staffs of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard 
University, Yale University, and the American Museum of Natural 
History. 

In addition to participating in the field trip to New York State 
discussed above. Dr. Kichard S. Boardman traveled in Tennessee and 
southern Virginia between September 22 and October 24, 1958, in 
the company of two visiting paleontologists, one from Australia and 
one from Norway. The principal objectives were to study the regional 
stratigraphy and to collect Bryozoa in the Middle Ordovician rocks 
of the Central Basin area of Tennessee and the southern Appalach- 
ians of eastern Tennessee and southern Virginia. This preliminary 
survey will form the basis for planning a continuing program in the 
largely unstudied bryozoan faunas of the Middle Ordovician of the 
region. Collections totaled 2,500 pounds and include many bryozoan 
colonies that have biological and taxonomic interest in addition to 
their potential stratigraphic value. 

In connection with his work on fossil echinoids, Dr. Porter M, 
Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, 
spent the period between July 19 and August 29, 1958, in Europe. Dr. 
Kier's trip was sponsored by a grant from the National Science 
Foundation. He spent several days in England examining speci- 
mens in the British Museum (Natural History) in London and the 
Sedgwick Musemn in Cambridge and subsequently visited museums 
at the University of Liege and the Institute Royal des Sciences 
Naturelles in Brussels. In Paris he visited three museums where 
there are important collections of fossil echinoids. During part of 
his stay in Europe. Dr. Kier collected fossils in Belgium, Holland, 
and France in company with various specialists. Between March 9 
and 13, 1959, he visited the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Har- 
vard University to study the fossil echinoid collections. Several 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

valuable and overlooked European type specimens were found there, 
in addition to specimens that will subsequently be described as new 
species. Accompanied by Henry B. Roberts, museum aide, he made a 
field trip to Alabama and Florida, April 6-16, 1959. Collecting was 
particularly productive in the Ocala area. 

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, visited 
Princeton University and the American Museum of Natural History 
in New York between November 16 and 23, 1958, to study their collec- 
tions of lower Eocene primates and to make comparisons between 
lower Eocene Knight materials and various Eocene collections and 
type materials at those institutions. In June 1959 he made a further 
visit to these same institutions and also to Yale University, Amherst 
College, and Harvard University to study lower Eocene and Paleocene 
insectivores, primates, condylarths, creodonts, and related groups. 

Dr. Da\dd H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleon- 
tology, spent September 24r-30, 1958, at the University of Kansas, 
studying their excellently curated collections of fossil fishes. In par- 
ticular, he made anatomical observations upon an extensive series of 
syllaemid fishes. In May 1959 he visited the site of the new airport 
construction at Chantilly, Va., where he examined and collected some 
Triassic bones reported by a member of the U.S. Geological Survey 
staff. The bones have been tentatively identified as pertaining to a 
phytosaur, an extinct reptile quite crocodilian in appearance, dis- 
tantly related to the dinosaurs. This specimen is believed to be the 
first such animal in the national collections from the Virginia 
Triassic. 

Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology, 
made a trip to the University of Michigan and the Chicago Natural 
History Museum between September 1 and 14, 1958, to study Permian 
vertebrates in those important collections. Between October 6 and 18, 
1958, he undertook a recomiaissance study in the Permian Cutler for- 
mation of southwestern Colorado, The information gained on this 
trip will be incorporated into a report on the fossil fauna of the re- 
gion which he is preparing in collaboration with staff members of 
the Geological Survey. 

The Director of the Museum of History and Teclmology, Frank A. 
Taylor, spent 2 days in September 1958 near Essex, N.Y., where he 
visited the site of a 1776 gunboat. 

Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of science and technology, 
made several extensive field trips during the year for the purpose of 
examining new exhibits and inspecting or acquiring important ap- 
paratus to illustrate the development of the physical sciences. He 
visited many institutions and individuals in the San Francisco area, 
in the vicinity of New York, and in Baltimore, Philadelphia, Fred- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 35 

ericksburg, Va., and Lexington, Ky., and acquired many items of 
interest to the Smithsonian Institution exhibits and study collections. 
Among them were materials associated with Ira Kemsen, the famous 
Johns Hopkins University chemist. At the Stevens Institute of 
Teclinology he examined the residues of the formerly extensive mu- 
seum. These comprise about 100 items, mostly models of considerable 
importance. Of particular interest also was a visit to Transylvania 
College, in Lexington, Ky., where Dr. Multhauf examined a collection 
of early 19th-century "philosophical apparatus," which proved to be 
the most complete representation of instructional apparatus for a 
single period that has yet been located. There are about 150 pieces, 
all obtained between 1815 and 1839. Dr. Multhauf offered to give his 
advisory assistance to Transylvania College to carry out plans for the 
exhibition and study of these materials. 

In continuation of his efforts to build up the exhibit and study 
materials pertaining to the division of mechanical and civil engineer- 
ing, Eugene S. Ferguson, curator of that division, visited many indi- 
viduals and institutions throughout the eastern United States, in Con- 
necticut, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, and 
Wisconsin. Mr. Ferguson's most extensive trip, however, took him to 
various European countries between February 28 and April 13, 1959. 
During the 6 weeks that he spent in looking critically at European 
technical museums, he visited Great Britain, Sweden, Germany, Italy, 
Austria, France, and Holland, seeing altogether 31 museums. Pie 
acquired many impressions and ideas that will be useful in designing 
new halls in the Museum of History and Technology. In his opinion 
the best technical museum that he visited was the Deutsches Museum 
in Munich. It is extravagant in its use of space and dioramas, and 
of all museums he believes it to be the one that is most meticulous in 
the details of exhibit design and execution. 

Edwin A. Battison, associate curator of mechanical and civil engi- 
neering, made several trips to various points in the eastern United 
States to examine clocks and other timepieces, particularly examples 
of early electric watch models and historic instruments. He visited 
many watch factories, with a view to the acquisition of material with 
potential value in the exhibits and study collections of the Museum of 
History and Technology. 

Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator of civil and mechanical engineer- 
ing, made several visits to museums and other institutions in New 
York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware in connection with 
the planned Smithsonian Hall of Engineering. He examined exten- 
sive collections of photographs of bridges, tunnels, and other struc- 
tural works and investigated various historic examples of refrigera- 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

tion, farm machinery, elevators, and mills, with a view to the possible 
iicquisition of materials for exhibit in new Smithsonian halls. 

Primarily to study models of ships, Howard I. Chapelle, curator 
of transportation, visited various institutions and individuals in New 
England, New York, and Virginia. He made arrangements for 
photographing ships and investigating some builder's models. Of 
particular value was a visit to the jNIariners' Museum at Warwick, Va., 
where plans are available for several ships built in the late 18th cen- 
tury. Mr. Chapelle's most extensive trip took him to Rome, Paris, 
and Ijondon between April 3 and IS, 1959. In Rome he attended the 
International Fishing Boat Congress and delivered a paper on hull 
form. He inspected tishing fleets and shipyards near Rome and also 
saw models of fishing boats built around 100 B.C. By visiting mu- 
seums in Paris and London, Mr. Chapelle acquired some very useful 
information in reference to details of the planned Smithsonian Trans- 
portation Hall. 

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of transportation, made several 
trips through the Eastern States to acquire models of ships and to ex- 
amine other models that are being built for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. His visits took him to many nniseums and shipyards. At the 
Mariners' Museum at Warwick, Va., Mr. Perry examined a card file 
of prints and paintings in the collection and recorded those pertaining 
to clipper ships, pilot boats, and Hudson River steamers with their 
descriptions. 

Jolm IT. AMiite, assistant curator of transportation, traveled to mu- 
seums and other institutions in the eastern United States to acquaint 
himself with materials pertaining to land transportation. He dis- 
cussed problems of model making with staff members of various insti- 
tutions, with particular emphasis on various railroad and street rail- 
way collections. 

In July 195S E. C. Kendall, associate curator of agriculture and 
wood products, spent a few days in New York visiting museimis and 
examining exhibits especially relating to forestry and agriculture. 
A valuable trip was made to Waynesboro, Pa., on December 4, 1958, 
to examine the 1877 steam engine owned by the Frick Co., of particu- 
lar interest since practically all the farm steam engines now available 
date from the early 1900's. ]SIr. Kendall also accompanied Mr. Vogel 
on a trip to the vicinity of Wilmington, Del., on March 24, 1959. At 
Chadds Ford they visited an old mill now owned by Andrew Wyeth 
and examined the equipment and machinery. The mill dates from 
1762 and was enlarged in the late ISth century by adding another 
story; it was in operation until 1950. Some machinery of the type 
in this mill would be useful in the new Agi'iculture Hall to illustrate 
early processes relating to flour milling. Between March 27 and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 37 

April 10, 1959, Mr. Kendall made a western trip to examine certain 
pieces of farm machinery. In Detroit he visited the Henry Ford 
Museum, which has a large collection of machinery including an early 
mowing or reaping machine made by Enoch Ambler. In Omaha 
he was much impressed by tlie Joslyn Art Museum, where he saw 
good examples of ingenuity in producing effective exhibits at rela- 
tively low cost. In California he visited tlie Caterpillar Tractor Co. 
near San Francisco and the Holt Brothers in Stockton, examining 
machinery of potential use in Smithsonian exhibits. 

With the intention of examining and perhaps acquiring examples 
of electrical equipment for the Smithsonian Institution, W. James 
King, acting curator of electricity, made several field trips. In July 
1958 he visited Cornell University to study Anthony's dynamo and 
a Westinghouse alternator of the late 1880's. In Pittsfield, Mass., 
he visited the General Electric Co. to examine William Stanley's 
papers in the, Stanley Library and to see the Stanley transformer at 
the Crane Museum, and at Housatonic, Mass., the site of Stanley's 
pioneer a.c. power installation. In September Mr. King discussed 
the new Hall of Electricity with several officials of the American 
Telephone & Telegi-aph Co. Visits to the General Electric Research 
Laboratory, the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry, and the 
Westinghouse Electric Co. in Pittsburgh, Pa., were productive of 
ideas for new exhibits for the Smithsonian Institution. Between 
February 2 and 8, 1959, Mr. King made a tour of various institutions 
in New England and New York to gain information regarding 
equipment in connection with the history of radio. 

George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medical sciences, made several 
field trips to museums and pharmaceutical houses throughout the 
Eastern States, traveling to Chicago, Missouri, and Wisconsin. He 
investigated several health museums to obtain ideas that might be 
useful in planning details of new exhibits for the Museum of History 
and Technology. Mr. Griffenhagen's most extended trip took him 
to England, Spain, Italy, and Belgium, between August 14 and Sep- 
tember 16, 1958. The primary purpose of the trip was to attend the 
17th general assembly of the International Pharmaceutical Federa- 
tion, held in Brussels. Included was an all-day meeting of the World 
Union of Pharmaceutical Historical Societies, during which Mr. 
Griffenhagen presented a paper on "The Equipment of the Early 
American Phannacy." He also visited the Brussels Universal Ex- 
hibition. In Spain, and also in Italy, he saw some outstanding col- 
lections of pharmaceutical antiquities and apothecary shop and al- 
chemical laboratory restorations. 

Between November 17 and 21, 1958, Dr. John B. Blake, associate 
curator of medical sciences, .studied the clinical amphitheater at the 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia and the Fry collection of 
medical prints in New Haven and examined the outstanding micro- 
scope collection of Dr. George S. M. Cowan in New York. He also 
made trips to institutions and individuals in the Eastern States to 
study problems of historical importance in the medical field. 

Dr. Philip W. Bishop, head curator of arts and manufactures, 
visited Chicago between October 26 and 29, 1958, to inspect the 
Whiting refinery and meet its officials, primarily to discuss the origins 
of thermal cracking of crude petroleum. He also visited the Museum 
of Science and Industry to see and measure the Nasmyth steam 
hammer. In November 1958 he visited the Ethyl Corp. and the Esso 
Standard Oil Co. in New York to discuss matters of mutual interest 
pertaining to the Hall of Petroleum of the Museum of History and 
Technology. Between January 19 and 23, 1959, he visited several 
institutions in southern California, primarily to inspect nuclear re- 
search activities and to examine data on various geological formations 
as an aid to planning some of the new halls for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. In New York m April and June he inspected a model of a 
deep-sea drilling barge and examined details of a fluid catalytic 
cracking model. 

Between September 28 and October 4, 1958, Miss Grace L. Rogers, 
acting curator of textiles, visited New Haven, Boston, and other areas 
in New England. She made an extensive study of an original model 
of the Whitney cotton gin in the collections of the New Haven Colony 
Historical Society. At Jewett City, Conn., she examined the old 
Jacquard loom that was being assembled for the renovated Textile 
Hall of the Smithsonian Institution. The Old Slater Mill Musemn in 
Pawtucket, R.I., provided a valuable opportunity to study a collection 
of old textile machinery and noted exhibition teclmiques. 

Paul V. Gardner, acting curator of ceramics and glass, made several 
trips during the year to Norwood, Mass., to select, list, and pack vari- 
ous pieces of rare glass presented to the Smithsonian Institution by 
Mrs. Clara W. Berwick. Between August 20 and 23, 1958, he visited 
the Corning Museum of Glass at Coming, N.Y., where he studied 
many samples of different glass objects. Here it was possible to run 
ultraviolet light tests on a number of glass objects from the Smith- 
sonian collections to determine their origin and age. From September 
8 to 15, 1958, Mr. Gardner visited New York and various points in 
New England to talk with collectors and dealers in the interest of 
obtaining additional ceramics and glass collections for the Smith- 
sonian. 

Between September 25 and 30, 1958, Jacob Kainen, curator of 
graphic arts, visited Kansas City to study the engravings of Hen- 
drick Golzius (1558-1617) in pursuance of a research project, particu- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 39 

larly in the Print Department of the William Eockhill Nelson Gal- 
lery of Art. He visited New York between March 22 and 28, 1959, 
to check data for his study of Jolin Baptist Jackson, to study the 
work of Hendrick Golzius, and to select prints for possible purchase 
for the new Museum of History and Technology. Mr. Kainen visited 
the New York Public Library, the Frick Art Eeference Library, and 
the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Between May 20 and 24, 1959, he 
made a trip to Sarasota, Fla., to gather further backgi'ound data in 
connection with his research project on Golzius. An extended visit 
to the Eingling Museum permitted Mr. Kainen to study the largest 
collection of baroque art in this country and to note its international 
influences. 

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator of photography, visited 
New York City between May 27 and 29, 1959, to discuss material for 
exhibit in the Museum of History and Technology with a number of 
manufacturers and distributors. 

Fuller O. Griffith, assistant curator of graphic arts, spent 3 days in 
New York in November 1958, carrying out research for his catalog 
of lithographs of the American artist Childe Hassam (1859-1935). 
He visited the Knoedler, Kennedy, and Weyhe galleries, where he ex- 
amined numerous prints by Hassam, as well as the Grand Central Art 
Galleries, the New Yorlc Historical Society, the Pierpont Morgan 
Library, and the New York Public Library, where there is a large 
body of Hassam's lithographs. 

Rudolph G. Morris, museum aide, division of gi-aphic arts, visited 
the Rochester, N.Y., Museum of Arts and Sciences in January 1959 to 
discuss with staff members the role of photography and the Musemn's 
audiovisual program. Extending his visit to Holyoke, Mass., he made 
an extensive tour of inspection of the facilities of the Technif ax Corp. 
and discussed research facilities with members of the staff. 

The head curator of civil history. Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, made 
several trips to institutions and other organizations in the eastern half 
of the comitry in connection with his historical studies. In July he 
visited the Marine Historical Association in Mystic, Conn., where he 
discussed with staff members the possibility of acquiring objects relat- 
ing to marine industry for exhibit in the Growth of America Hall. In 
October he went to St. Louis, Mo., where he spent some time with 
the National Park Service, selecting structural and decorative iron 
from the vast accumulation preserved by that Service. At Williams- 
burg, Va., Dr. Garvan visited the Information Center in February 
1959, and examined new exhibits and material of possible value to the 
Smithsonian Institution. He viewed a superb series of plaster models 
of houses showing their outline and linking them with horizontal 
photographs and labels. He also examined a complete archeological 

536608—60 i 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

site made of a new plastic material so realistic and so colored to re- 
semble earth, brick, stone, etc., that the visitor feels that the actual 
site has been transported into the musemn. At Jamestown Dr. Garvan 
examined a variety of objects recovered from the area in the anticipa- 
tion that some of these may be used in the Smithsonian's hall demon- 
strating the growth of the United States. 

In August 1958 Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator of political 
history, spoke at a dinner meeting of the Eastern Shore of Virginia 
Historical Society on the personalities of Governor Sir William 
Berkeley and rebel Nathaniel Bacon. Subsequently he examined sev- 
eral historic sites in the area, including St. George's Church, where 
archeological work is taking place, and Hungars Church, In Novem- 
ber 1959 he went to Princeton, N.J., to participate in a conference 
of the Institute of Early American History and Culture of Williams- 
burg, Va., following which he did some research in the manuscript 
collections of the University Library. In Baltimore he examined the 
observation platform that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad expects to 
donate to the Smithsonian Institution for use in a political history 
exhibit 

Mrs. Margaret B. Klapthor, associate curator of political history, 
traveled to New York in January 1959 to pursue her research on 
matters pertaining to the First Ladies Hall. She selected samples of 
fabrics and discussed in some detail two mannequins to be used. 

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political histoiy, visited 
Dover and Wilmington, Del., in March 1959 to study 18-century tax 
lists. He located hitherto unlmown midcentury cabinetmakers and 
followed the movements of others who moved about the colony after 
their apprenticeships had been served. Mr. Dorman also spoke on the 
subject of "Philadelphia Presidential Mansion" at a meeting of the 
Chester County Historical Society, West Chester, Pa. Between May 
19 and 24, 1959, he visited several towns in New England to study 
museum design and exhibits installation. He also gave a talk before 
the Quincy Historical Society of Quincy, Mass., on "The Adams 
Family in Washington, 1800-1847." 

To examine collections offered the Smithsonian Institution by vari- 
ous individuals, C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural his- 
tory, made several trips to points in the Eastern States. At 
Wilmington, Del., in December 1958, he examined a loghouse offered 
to the Institution for exhibit purposes and discussed ways and means 
of dismantling it and shipping it to Washington. 

Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator of cultural history, visited Phila- 
delphia in September 1958 for research at the American Swedish 
Historical Foundation and Museum pertaining to an exhibit on 
Scandinavian backgrounds planned for the Hall of Everyday Life in 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 41 

Early America in the new Museum of History and Technology. In 
connection with planning for this hall, she visited the Winterthur 
Museum in Delaware in December 1958 and again in June 1959. At 
the Baltimore Museum of Arts, Miss Roth studied an imaginative 
display entitled "Age of Elegance, the Rococo and Its EJETect," con- 
sisting of an assemblage of fine and decorative arts of the 18th century 
grouped by country of origin. 

George T. Tui-ner, acting curator of philately and postal history, 
and Francis J. McCall, associate curator of that division, attended 
the American Stamp Dealers' Show in New York in November 1958. 
They displayed a special Smithsonian exhibit, and Mr. Turner gave 
a talk on the history of the National Postage Stamp collection and 
its development under the preceding curators. During the first 10 
days of 1959 Mr. Turner visited several cities in California to meet 
numerous philatelists, to inform them of the material needed in the 
exhibits planned for a new hall, and to tell them something of the 
stamps missing in the National collection. He spoke before a meeting 
of the Philatelic Research Society on the "Activities of the Smithso- 
nian's Division of Philately and Postal History." 

On two occasions Francis J. McCall visited New York City to 
discuss with several philatelists material of potential interest to the 
Museum of History and Technology. At the New York Historical 
Society, the Philatelic Society, and the New York Public Library he 
supplemented previous studies and strengthened contacts with staff 
members. Between October 31 and November 2, 1958, he attended 
the American Philatelic Congress in New York. From March 15 to 
20, 1959, he visited Boston and Cambridge, Mass., to discuss with 
philatelists matters of mutual interest and to study documents at 
various libraries. 

Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator of numismatics, made sev- 
eral trips to New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and cities in Mas- 
sachusetts during the year to select material missing from the 
Smithsonian library. On September 16, 1958, he gave an illustrated 
address to the Philadelphia Coin Club concernmg the history of the 
Smithsonian and of the national coin collections. In October 1958 
he spent several days in Worcester, Mass., where he visited the 
American Antiquarian Society and studied their collections of colonial 
notes. At the Worcester Numismatic Club he discussed the Smith- 
sonian's modernization program and examined a collection of German 
Renaissance medals, multiple talers, and ancient Greek coins. In 
February 1959 he spent several days in New York, principally at the 
museum of the American Numismatic Society, where he studied post- 
himious Lysimachus gold and silver coinages struck m various ancient 
Greek cities. 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

In Philadelpliia, Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator of 
numismatics, examined a collection of Mrs. Catherine BuUowa, from 
which she was able to select for the national collections numerous 
coins, medals, and tokens in silver, copper, and other metals, repre- 
senting practically all periods, from the early 13th century to date. 
In September 1958 she went to New York to study Italian numismatic 
periodicals at the library of the American Numismatic Society in 
order to complete a study on modern Italian coin engravers. 

From May 14 to 18, 1959, Dr. and Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli went to 
Albany, Gloversville, and New York, N.Y. In the New York State 
Museum they had useful discussions with staff members about early 
trade and examined unusual collections of wampum beads and cere- 
monial belts. Dr. Albert F. Goodwin, of Gloversville, permitted 
them to study his very fine collection of foreign medals and 
decorations. 

During the year Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of Armed 
Forces history, made several trips to Boston, New York, and several 
other east-coast cities. In Trenton, N.J., at the State Museum Build- 
ing, he attended an open meeting on the subject of underwater ex- 
ploration, where he delivered a lecture. The Museum of the Naval 
Academy at Annapolis, Md., disclosed some material that will be 
useful to the Smithsonian exhibition series, including, for example, 
a letter written by John Paul Jones. 

Edgar M. Howell, acting curator of military history, made several 
trips to points in the eastern United States and Canada in connection 
with material needed by the Smithsonian for exhibit. Between Sep- 
tember 8 and 12, 1958, he visited the Canadian War Museum in 
Ottawa, the Citadel in Quebec City, Fort Henry at Kingston, On- 
tario, and Fort Niagara, in New York, studying collections and ex- 
hibit techniques and photographing specimens. He made especially 
valuable contacts with curators specializing in the French and Indian 
War and the War of 1812 periods. Between April 20 and 24, 1959, 
Mr. Howell visited the Fort Sumter National Monument, the Con- 
federate Museum, and the Charleston Museum in Charleston, S.C., 
the Museum at Grant Park in Atlanta, Ga., and the Castillo de San 
Marcos in St. Augustine, Fla., studying collections and observing new 
exhibit techniques. 

Craddock K. Goins, Jr., assistant curator of military history, 
visited several museums in New York State during the period August 
25 to 30, 1958, to study ordnance material, observe special exhibit 
techniques, and arrange for the acquisition of specimens needed in 
the Plall of Ordnance, in the Museum of History and Teclinology. 
The most comprehensive collections of ordnance material in New 
York State are part of the Museum of the U.S. Military Academy at 



SECRETART'S REPORT 43 

West Point. Here IVIr. Goins was particularly interested in the ex- 
tensive collection of artillery tubes. The library of the Military 
Academy also includes a considerable quantity of material concerning 
ordnance boards, which is missing from the Ordnance Department 
records in the National Archives. In February 1959 he made a short 
trip to Harpers Ferry, W. Va., to examine records in the custody 
of the National Park Service pertaining to a study he is preparing 
on the Hall rifle. 

Lucile McCain, assistant registrar, visited museums in London and 
in Leiden, Holland, between September 17 and October 27, 1958, to 
examine their registration methods. At the British Museum (both 
Natural History and Bloomsbury), the Victoria and Albert Museum, 
and the Eijksmuseum in Leiden Miss McCain learned much from 
the methods in use, particularly as they refer to customs matters 
and to plans for reviewing permanent files after 25 years. 

Members of the staff of the office of exhibits traveled during the 
year in order to examine exhibits techniques used by various museums, 
with a view to their application to the new halls in the Museum of 
History and Technology and the Museum of Natural History. 

John E. Anglim, chief exhibits specialist, spent the period April 
24 to June 20, 1958, in Europe, where he visited 16 cities in 10 coun- 
tries and inspected about 70 museums and attended the World's Fair 
in Brussels. His general impression of European museums is that 
nearly everywhere they are attempting to bring their exhibitions up to 
higher standards. 

R. O. Hower, supervisory exliibits specialist, visited New York in 
November 1958, to examine new exhibition techniques in the Ameri- 
can INIuseum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of 
Art, where many new techniques are being developed in the exhibits 
laboratories. 

Benjamin Lawless, supervisoiy exhibits specialist, and Robert Wid- 
der, exhibits designer, visited New York between September 16 and 
18, 1958, to discuss with specialists various types of illumination for 
the new exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution. In March 1959 Mr. 
Lawless visited the new Museum of Military History and Science at 
the U.S. Military Academy, at West Point, where he examined the 
extensive modernization that has been completed there. In May 1959, 
accompanied by James A. Mahoney, exhibits designer, he went to 
Chicago and Cleveland to examine various types of exhibition cases 
now being devised or in use. 

Between August 19 and 22, 1958, Judith Borgogni, exhibits de- 
signer, and Violet Moyer, exhibits worker, went to New York to 
study exhibit techniques and to discuss trends in the exhibition of 
costumes and fashions. Among institutions visited were the Museum 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SADTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

of the City of New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the 
New York Public Library. 

William E. Geoghegan, exhibits technician, with Kenneth Perry, 
visited Warwick and Riclmiond, Va., between October 29 and 31, 
1958. At the JMariners' ISIuseum in Warwick and at the Confederate 
Museum in Riclmiond they worked on models of ships that will be 
exhibited in the Museum of History and Technology. In November 
1958 Mr. Geoghegan went to Providence, R.L, and Essex, Conn., to 
examine the models of certain liistoric ships. Work on several such 
models is progressing as anticipated and it is expected that they will 
greatly enhance the educational value of the hall being planned by the 
division of transportation. 

Exliibits technician Chris Karras made a field trip in May 1959 
that took him to several museums in the eastern half of the country. 
He was mainly interested in marine biological displays m connection 
with the new Hall of Oceanic Life that is being plamied for the 
Musemn of Natural History. 

Mrs. Ann Karras, exhibits designer, visited the Cincinnati Art 
Museum and the Taft. Museum, in Cincinnati, Ohio, in June 1958 to 
acquire background information for details of the Hall of Musical 
Instruments of the Museum of History and Teclmology. Between 
November 15 and 26, 1958, she visited several museums for the pur- 
pose of studying fossil mammal exhibits, in connection with a pend- 
ing renovation of a hall in our Museum of Natural History. This 
visit took her to the Chicago Natural History Museum, the University 
of Nebraska State Museum, the Denver Museum of Natural History, 
the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale, and the American 
Museum of Natural History. 

Between November 17 and 21, 1958, James A. Mahoney, exhibits 
designer, visited George Eastman House, Eastman Kodak Co., and 
Bausch & Lomb Co. in Rochester, N.Y., for technical data needed in 
the Hall of Photographic History, in the Museum of History and 
Teclmology. He obtained much valuable information, and got a 
general view of present methods of displaying photographic and 
historical topics. 

William Pennock, exliibits designer, went to New York in the com- 
pany of Dr. Clain-Stef anelli between August 7 and 9, 1958, to examine 
various exhibit methods, color and lighting teclmiques, case designs, 
architecture, and manufacturing processes pertaining to numismatic 
displays. 

John C. Widener, exhibits specialist, attended sessions of the Na- 
tional Plastics Exposition held in Chicago from November 17 to 21, 
1958. He discussed the utilizations of various plastics with specialists 
who attended the exposition and visited several companies in order to 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 45 

investigate their products and tecliniques, in coimection with the use 
of plastics in exhibit construction at the Smitlisonian Institution. 

EXHIBITIONS 

The progressive modernization of tlie exliibition halls of the Smith- 
sonian Institution was carried forward. The program has now com- 
pleted 5 years. Construction bids were received in May 1959 for the 
second North American Archeology Hall, and in Jmie 1959 for the 
halls that will be devoted to the geological and fossil record of the 
age of mammals ; medical and pharmaceutical history ; and the his- 
tory of money or numismatics. 

The formal opening of the renovated Graphic Arts Hall in the 
connecting range of the Smithsonian Institution Building was held 
on the evening of July 10, 1958. Prentiss Taylor, president of the 
Society of Wasliington Printmakers, was the principal speaker. Hand 
processes employed to produce etchings, wood engravings, lithographs, 
and silk-screen prints are displayed in this hall. The history of 
printing from the invention of the alphabet to the commercial pro- 
duction of the printed book is illustrated by an original woodcut for 
a page of a very old Chinese block book, a reproduction of ancient 
Korean movable type, and a page from the Gutenberg Bible of about 
1454. 

The newly modernized Hall of Gems and Minerals in the Natural 
History Building was dedicated by Secretary Leonard Carmichael on 
the evening of July 31, 1958. Mrs. W. F. Foshag, wife of the late 
head curator of the department of geology, was invited to cut the 
ribbon at the formal opening. Exhibits in this hall include the most 
extensive collection of gems on display in this country, and a large 
and representative sampling of specimens from the national min- 
eral collection, which is regarded as the world's finest. Nearly every 
variety of gem is represented. Included m this display are : A 316- 
carat star sapphire; an 18.3-carat canary-yellow diamond; a 66-carat 
alexandrite; and a 310-carat peridot. Among the historic items 
shown is a set of pearls consisting of a necklace, choker, and earrings 
given by the Imam of Muscat to the U.S. Government ; the original 
gold nugget responsible for the initiation of the California gold rush 
which was discovered at Sutter's Mill in 1848 by James Marshall; 
and the world's largest flawless quartz crystal ball, a sphere almost 
13 inches in diameter and weighing 106% pounds. The Hope dia- 
mond, a gift of Harry Winston, world-famous gem merchant of New 
York, is spotlighted against a dark-red velvet in a centrally located, 
specially designed case. In the mineral section of this hall are shown 
examples of all the principal kinds of minerals, arranged in accord- 



4l) ANNUAL KKPOKT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1959 

auco Avith !i ohonuoal classitioation, and soKvtod and liiihtod to make 
a colorful display of thoir uatiual boauty. A lino lariio specimen of 
smithsonite, a carbonate of zinc, nan\cd for its discoverer .lames 
Smithson, ^Yha^e bequest founded the Smithsonian Institution, is ex- 
hibited in this hall. I'he spectacular display of tluoi-escent minerals 
on a ivYolvin^; stand has attracted considerable visitor inteivst. 

The ixHMii designed solely for the display of the Maude Monell 
Vetlesen collection of Chinese jade carviui^-s of the UHh to UHh cen- 
turies Avas opened to the public on the eveniui: of December 11. lOoS, 
in ceivmonies featuriuix addresses by the Vice President of the Ignited 
States and Ke^vnt of the Smithsonian Institution Kichard M. Xixon, 
Kdmund 0. Monell, the Honorable AViley T. Buchanan, ,Tr., Chief 
of Protocol of the United States, and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institution. These pieces of exquisitely 
carved jade include an apple-green chrysai\thenunn dish of nearly 
liv« inches in diameter, a massive white imperial altar mcense burner 
and cover of classic design, a pair of deep spinach-gi\H^n altar boxes in 
the sliape of the divine tortoise, and tNvo imperial scepters, made of 
gold filigree and each ins^^t with three large Ciirved jade plaques. 

The basic contract construction of the Hall of Fossil Fishes iuid 
Primitive Tetrapods, as Nvell as the Hall of Fossil Invertebrates and 
Plants, was completed in ^[ay IPoO. Shortly thei-eafter the exhibits 
suu! placed in tlieir respective cases the giant tish XiphiWthius and 
the slab displaying the skeleton of the Triassic amphibian EupcJor 
fraasL Materials for other display units have been prepaivd for in- 
stillation. In addition to the materials pivpaiwi by the museum's 
exhibit staff, two habitat grouj^s, depicting Ci-etaceous and Oi\io- 
vician life associations, wei*e completed and two additional groups 
were beiui: prepared with the help of George Maivhand of Ann Arbor. 
Mich. 

Preparatoi"s in the paleontolog}- laboratory commenced the asseni- 
blv of mammalian skeletons for the Ag-e of Mammals Hall. Skeletons 
of the Eocene horse Orohippus, the Oligocene Mesohippus, and the 
Miocene Piirahippu^^ are in rariou? stages of completion. 

The unveiling of the Fenykovi elephant on the evening of ^farch 6, 
1950, was witness^ed by a lai'ge number of invited guests following a 
lecture in the auditorium of the Natural History Building by the donor. 
This recorvi s^xvimen of African bush elephant, standing 13 feet '2 
inches at the shoulder, is the largest land manunal ever to be placed on 
display. Josef J. Fenykovi, Hungarian-born engineer and big-game 
hmiter who tr:\cked down and shot this elephant in the largely unex- 
plored Cnando Kiver region of southeastern Angola on Xovember 13, 
1955, and who presented the specimen to the Smithsonian Institution, 
came to Wasliington with his wife from Madrid to participate in the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 47 

ceremonies. This elephant has been placed in the center of the rotunda 
of the Natural History Building. 

The preparation and installation of the habitat groups and topical 
displays were nearing completion at the end of the fiscal year in the 
two halls featuring the World of Mammals, following the contract 
construction of the exhibit fixtures in June 1958. Nearly all the topical 
units have been installed and much of the work on the habitat groups 
is completed. Staff zoologists under the chairmanship of Dr. Herbert 
Friedmann, head curator of zoology, continued to develop plans for 
the Hall of Oceanic Life. 

Associate Curator Clifford Evans, in cooperation with John C. 
Ewers, Assistant Director of the Museum of Histoi-y and Technology, 
How^ard Cline of the Hispanic Foundation of the Library of Congress, 
and John Corbett of the National Park Service, prepared the scripts 
and supervised the installation of an exhibit, "Anthropology and the 
Nation's Capital," which was shown in the foyer of the Natural History 
Building during November and December 1958 coincident with the 
annual meetings in Washington of the American Anthropological 
Association and the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. 

Three types of prehistoric surgery, assembled by Dr. T. Dale Stewart, 
curator of physical anthropology, were shown at the January 1959 
meeting of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: (1) Amputa- 
tion of the right arm in the Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton from 
Iraq (45,000 years old) ; (2) cranial trephining from Peru; and (3) 
filed teeth from the Mississippi Valley. 

The panels of photographs at the south end of the hall devoted to 
Highlights of Latin American Archeology were removed and a large, 
full-size plaster cast of a colossal stone head of the Olmec culture was 
installed in February 1959. This cast of San Ix)renzo Monument No. 
1 from southern Veracruz was delivered in 31 sections and was as- 
sembled by Paul Willis of the cabinet shop, with the artwork and final 
painting performed by A. Joseph Andrews, chief exhibits specialist of 
the department of anthropology. Three carved jade figures from La 
Venta in Tabasco, Mexico, as well as other Olmec jade objects such as 
beads, ceremonial axes, pendants, and ear ornaments, were installed in 
.lune 1959 in an exhibit adjacent to the head. This exhibit also illus- 
trates aboriginal methods of working jade by drilling, sawing, pecking, 
and polishing. The Andean arts and crafts exhibit was renovated in 
December 1958 and a few objects were withdrawn to permit the installa- 
tion of a gold Chimu mask from Peru. 

At the close of the fiscal year construction of the exhibit fixtures 
for Hall 21, which will feature the archeology of the southwestern 
United States, the Pacific coast and Columbia River Valley, and Arctic 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

America, was well advanced toward completion. A series of general 
displays, such as native mines and quarries, Indian stoneworking 
methods and products, Euroamerican trade items from Indian sites, 
native smoking devices, and the diffusion of tobacco are planned for 
topical purposes. 

The Third Biennial Creative Crafts Exhibition was shown from 
August 27 to September 26, 1958, in the foyer of the Natural History 
Building. This was organized and installed by local craft organiza- 
tions and sponsored by the division of ceramics and glass. Con- 
temporary examples of ceramics, textiles, jewelry, and woodworking 
were displayed, and daily demonstrations of potteiy making, weaving, 
and other craf twork conducted. 

A ceremony of acceptance was held on the afternoon of Decem- 
ber 11, 1958, to open the E. Stanley Wires collection of decorative 
tiles in the specially reconditioned room in the foyer of the National 
History Building. New acquisitions of glass from Mrs. Clara W. 
Berwick and of Castleford porcelain from Mrs. George Hewitt Myers 
were also put on exhibition, and two appropriate cases were built 
to house a collection of paperweights lent by Mrs. Florence Bushee. 

Historic Dutch and Rhenish pottery and stoneware now displayed 
in a large alcove at the west end of the Cultural History Hall in 
the Natural History Building were formally accepted by Secretary 
Leonard Carmichael as a gift from the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, 
Jr., Chief of Protocol of the United States, and Mrs. Buchanan 
on the afternoon of January 5, 1959. All these examples of ceramics 
were excavated at sites in the Netherlands and assembled by P. 
Weers of Vooburg. The exhibit illustrates household ceramics from 
the Roman and Merovingian periods to the beginning of the 19th 
century, and provides a basis for an understanding of the materials 
exported to America during the period of early settlement as well 
as its influence on the workmanship of American potters of the I7th 
century. 

The renovated textile exhibit located in the main south hall of 
the Arts and Industries Building was formally opened to the public 
on the evening of January 20, 1959, by A. E. Wullschleger and Sec- 
retary Carmichael. In this hall the exhibits trace the history of 
the fibers and fabrics used by man in the context of the implements 
and machines that produced them, with the emphasis placed on the 
technological developments from colonial times through the ensuing 
years. The Eli Whitney cotton gin and the Samuel Slater cotton 
machinery from the Pawtucket Mill of 1790, both unique examples 
of the work of these skilled mechanics, are supplemented by many 
other historic devices. Ajnong these are a well-preserved Jacquard 
loom from Lyons, France, presented by Mr. Wullschleger, of New 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 49 

York. No more than 4 or 5 inches of fabric could be woven on this 
loom in a day. Fabrics from ancient Egypt, Colonial America, 
and contemporary hand- and power- woven fabrics show the develop- 
ment of the art of weaving. Another featured exliibit is an early 
18th-century Don Quixote tapestry presented by Mrs. Kermit 
Roosevelt. 

Contract construction work on the fixtures in the south hall gallery 
of the Arts and Industries Building for display of the dyeing and 
printing of fabrics, needlework and lace crafts, and the development 
of the sewing machine was nearing completion in June 1959. Reno- 
vation of the southeast range of the Arts and Industries Building, 
which will be utilized for the display of farm machinery and other 
agricultural implements, was completed in April 1959 by the con- 
struction contractor. These exhibits will trace the growth of labor- 
saving farm machines in America, with particular emphasis on the 
19th century, during which various types of machinery were in- 
vented or perfected for efficient planting, cultivating, and harvesting 
of the Nation's rapidly expanding farm acreage. 

With the cooperation of a number of leading concerns in the petro- 
leum industry, plans have been developed for a small hall to illustrate 
the history of this important industry. 

During March and April 1959 the Atomic Energy Commission's 
traveling exhibition "You and the Atom" was presented to the public 
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building. 

On June 24, 1959, a construction contract was awarded for the 
renovation of the east gallery of the Arts and Industries Building 
in which will be installed a series of new display units interpreting 
the histoiy of medicine and pharmacy. These display units will be 
moved to the Museum of History and Technology where they will 
comprise portions of the more comprehensive exhibits in the fields 
of medical, dental, and pharmaceutical history. The most important 
new exhibits installed in the division of medical sciences during the 
year were the two cases prepared and contributed by the National 
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, which illustrate the discovery 
and development of the Sallv poliomyelitis vaccine. 

An exhibit of "World Ebonies," selected from the Rudolph Block 
collection of walking sticks, was installed in the corridor through 
the hall of wood products ; and four exhibit units displaying Ameri- 
can oaks, other important American hardwoods, f ruitwoods, and for- 
eign cabinet woods are being renovated. 

A temporary exhibit was prepared to commemorate the 100th 
anniversary of the birth of William Stanley. He was responsible 
for the design of the first practical electrical transformer and for 
the first demonstration of an a.c. power distribution system in the 



50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

United States. The use of transformers made it possible to send 
electrical power over great distances, instead of being limited to a 
mile or so from the generating station. 

Additions to the horological exhibits included a large operating 
model of the Hamilton electric clock, constructed on a scale of 8 to 
1, and a group of recently cleaned and restored Japanese clocks. Dur- 
ing the annual meeting of the National Association of Watch and 
Clock Collectors in May 1959, a number of New England watches 
were placed on display. 

The completely renovated 1893 Duryea automobile was returned 
to the exliibition series and the Cornell-Liberty Mutual survival 
car was placed on temporary exhibition. 

A special exliibit commemorating the 150th anniversary of the 
birth of Abraham Lincoln was opened in the west hall of the Arts 
and Industries Building on February 11, 1959. Selected items from 
the Museum's collection of Lincoln memorabilia and a life-size figure 
on which is displayed the office suit worn by President Lincoln 
on the morning of his assassination comprise the essential elements 
of this exhibit. Included are many of the items that have recently 
been donated to the Institution by Lincoln Isham, of Dorset, Vt., 
great-grandson of President Lincoln. At the same time the division 
of philately prepared a special exliibit, "Lincoln on Stamps," in- 
cluding free franked covers of Mrs. Lincoln lent through the assist- 
ance of Mrs. Morton Dean Joyce of New York, and the division of 
numismatics arranged groups of Lincoln medals to portray Lincoln's 
life and impact on liistory. The division of numismatics also pre- 
pared a large exhibit of U.S. commemorative coins, presidential 
medals, and American medallic art for the first Ibero-American 
Numismatic Exhibition in Barcelona, Spain, which opened November 
24, 1958. 

The department of Armed Forces history presented two special 
exhibitions in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building dur- 
ing the year. From July through September 1958 a special showing 
of the Tole paintings of Mrs. Irving Olds and naval prints from 
the collection of Mr. Olds was displayed under the joint sponsorship 
of the U.S. Marine Corps and the division of naval history. A spe- 
cial exhibition featuring the submarines Nautilus and Holland 
was set up during May 1959. 

During the year the appearance of the uniforms exhibited on the 
west gallery of the Arts and Industries Building was materially en- 
hanced by placing them on adjustable mannequins. 

DOCENT SERVICE 

In January 1959 the general direction of the educational program 
of volimteer decent guide service, conducted with the cooperative as- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 51 

sistance of the Junior League of Wasliington, was transferred to the 
Smithsonian Museum Service. This program had been under the 
direction of Frank M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, since 
its inception in 1955. This transfer was made in accord with the 
purposes for which the Museum Service was established. The pro- 
gram continued under the supervision of G. Carroll Lindsay, acting 
curator of the Smithsonian Museum Service, working with Mrs. Peter 
Macdonald, volunteer chairman of the Smithsonian Docent Commit- 
tee of the Junior League of Washington. After serving for 2 years 
as chairman of tliis committee, Mrs. Macdonald submitted her resig- 
nation at the conclusion of the tours season. She was succeeded 
as chairman by Mrs. C. Clarke Gearhart, formerly cochairman 
of the docent committee. Mrs. Dean Cowie will serve as co- 
chairman of the committee with Mrs. Gearhart. 

During the 6-month season beginning in October 1958, 398 tours 
were conducted, in which 11,996 children were escorted through the 
3 exhibit halls included in the docent program — the American Indian 
Hall, the Hall of Power Machinery, and the Hall of Everyday Life 
in Early America. This represented an increase of nearly 50 percent 
in the total number of children participating in this program over the 
previous year. 

In addition to Mrs, Macdonald and her cochairman, Mrs. Gearhart, 
the following members of the Junior League of Washington partici- 
pated in the docent work: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. Harrison 
Brand III, Mrs. Dean Cowie, Mrs. Walter Edwards, Mrs. William 
Graves, Mrs. H. F. Gregory, Miss Mary Harbert, Mrs. Edward La- 
mont, Mrs. Ralph W. Lee III, Mrs. John Manfuso, Jr., Miss Grace 
C. Marshall, Mrs. William McClure, Jr., Mrs. Robert McCormick, 
Mrs. John A. Medaris, Mrs. William Minshall, Mrs. Minot Mulligan, 
Mrs. George Pendleton, Mrs. John Schoenfeld, Mrs. W. James Sears, 
Mrs. William D. Sloan, Jr., Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. James H. 
Stallings, Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, Mrs. G. G. Thomas, Mrs. David 
Toll, Mrs. Richard Wallis, Mrs. Marc A. White, and Mrs. George 
A. Wyeth, Jr. 

In the coming season, the docent service will be extended to two 
more exhibit areas — the Hall of Gems and Minerals and the Hall of 
Textiles. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution 
and chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction 
of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology, turned the 
first shovelful of earth on August 22, 1958, and excavation for the 
foimdations was commenced immediately. At the close of the fiscal 
year the excavation and driving piles had been accomplished. Work- 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTmjTION, 1959 

ing drawings and specifications for the building were completed by 
the contract architects, McKim, Mead & Wliite, and reviewed by the 
Smithsonian Institution and the General Services Administration. 
The construction of the superstructure was advertised ^or bids on 
June 23, 1959. 

Working drawings for the construction of additions to the Natural 
History Building were completed by the contract architects, Mills, 
Petticord & Mills, and were reviewed in detail by the staff of the 
Smithsonian Institution. Thus the architectural planning for these 
wings, which are urgently required to house the increasing scientific 
collections and to provide efficient working facilities for the staff, has 
been accomplished. The Congress recognized the immediate need 
for these additions when it appropriated the funds for the archi- 
tectural services to prepare the working drawings. The Smithsonian 
Institution is now prepared to contract for the construction of the 
additions when funds are appropriated for the purpose. 

Jolm E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service assigned 
to the Smithsonian Institution, continued to advise on both building 
projects, assisting in the transmittal of requirements to the architects 
and in the review of the drawings and specifications. Many individ- 
uals and sections of the Public Buildings Service contributed counsel 
and advice. 

The contract work for replacement of the roof covering on the 
Natural History Building, the first phase of which was started in the 
fiscal year of 1957, has been completed. This project included the 
removal of the skylight glass, the installation of sheathing and metal 
covering, and the installation of fluorescent lighting to provide uni- 
form illumination in the three large halls. 

The floors of the auditorium in the Natural History Building have 
been re-covered to minimize the hazards of the sharply inclined aisles 
as well as to provide a more noiseless walking surface. 

A revised electrical system has been installed to serve the Arts and 
Industries, Smithsonian, and Freer Buildings. This project required 
the construction of two additional transformer vaults, the installation 
of two transformers, and the extensive revision of the electrical serv- 
ice in order to provide sufficient electrical capacity to serve the con- 
stantly mcreasing needs of the Institution, 

The east entrance of the Arts and Industries Building has been 
remodeled to permit installation of a heavy-duty hydraulic elevator 
for use in the handling of large and heavy objects from truck height 
to floor level. The combination of this elevator with a full-lieight 
roUup-type door will be especially useful during the transfer of mu- 
seum objects from the Arts and Industries Building to the Museum of 
History and Technology on its completion. Many former hazards oc- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 53 

curring during handling of heavy objects at this entrance have been 
eliminated. 

All exterior surfaces of window sash and frames of the Natural 
History Building were painted and glass replaced where n^essary. 
During the year many offices and workrooms have been renovated, 
including those of the registrar, division of political history, and the 
library. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

Dr. A. C. Smith was appointed Director of the Museum of Natural 
History effective August 28, 1958, following transfer from the Na- 
tional Science Foundation. 

Jolm C. Ewers was promoted to Assistant Director of the Museum 
of History and Teclinology on November 29, 1958. 

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, associate curator of archeology, resigned on 
June 30, 1959, to accept an associate profe^orship in anthropology 
at Columbia University. In the division of ethnology of the depart- 
ment of anthropology, Dr. Gordon D. Gibson accepted an appoint- 
ment as associate curator on July 30, 1958, and Dr. Eugene Kjiez as 
associate curator on April 30, 1959. 

Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology, 
resigned on January 15, 1959, to accept an appointment tendered by 
the University of California at Los Angeles. This vacancy was filled 
by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, wlio reported for duty Jmie 1, 1959. 

George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medical sciences since Decem- 
ber 8, 1952, resigned on June 27, 1959, to accept the position of direc- 
tor of communications for the American Pharmaceutical Association. 

The curatorial vacancy in the division of philately and postal his- 
tory was filled by the appointment of George T. Turner on July 7, 
1958. 

Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg was appointed as associate curator, divi- 
sion of naval history, effective Jime 10, 1959. Dr. Lundeberg has been 
serving as consultant in the department of Armed Forces history since 
January 19, 1959. Peter C. Welsh accepted an appointment as asso- 
ciate curator in the department of civil history and reported for duty 
June 15, 1959. 

John D. Shortridge was appointed, effective July 28, 1958, associate 
curator of musical instruments in the division of cultural history, and 
G. Carroll Lindsay, associate curator of cultural liistory, was trans- 
ferred to the Smitlisonian Museum Service. 

William L. Brown, zoological exhibits specialist and chief taxi- 
dermist, retired on June 30, 1959, after 51 years 3 months of service 
m the taxidei-my shop. Mr. Brown was responsible for the modeling 
and preparing for display of the major portion of the mammals ex- 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

hibited in the Natural History Building. He was recognized by co- 
workers as one of the foremost skilled artisans and modelers of 
naturally posed mammals and gained an enviable reputation for the 
excellence of his work. 

Dr. Egbert H. Walker, associate curator in the division of phanero- 
gams, retired on June 30, 1959. Dr. Walker, who was appointed to 
the Smithsonian staff on July 2, 1928, has specialized in the taxonomy 
and pertinent bibliography of eastern Asiatic flowering plants. He 
plans to continue, mider the aegis of the American Institute of Biolog- 
ical Sciences, his preparation of a supplement to Merrill and Wal- 
ker's "Bibliography of Eastern Asiatic Botany" (1938) . 

Clarence R. Shoemaker, who was appointed research associate fol- 
lowing his retirement on March 30, 1944, as assistant curator of marine 
invertebrates after having served more than 34 years as an employee 
of the Institution, died on December 28, 1958, in Washington, D.C. 
Mr. Shoemaker was a recognized amphipod specialist. 

Dr. Frederick L. Lewton, research associate who retired on June 
30, 1946, as curator of arts and industries after 44 years of service 
in the U.S. National Museum, died on February 21, 1959, at Winter 
Park, Fla. 

Dr. Jolin B. Reeside, Jr., research associate in invertebrate paleon- 
tology since June 19, 1944, died in Hyattsville, Md., on July 2, 1958. 
Dr. Reeside has also served for 17 years as chief of the paleontology 
and stratigraphy branch of the U.S. Geological Survey. 

Paul A. Straub, research associate in numismatics since July 6, 
1955, died at Summit, N. J., on December 9, 1958. Mr. Straub donated 
to the division of numismatics over 5,000 gold and silver coins repre- 
senting a span of 400 years. Because of the many outstanding rari- 
ties included in the collection, these coins as a whole are priceless 
and, in addition, enable the Smithsonian Institution to display to 
its visitors the largest exhibit of gold coins in the world. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Remington ICellogg, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Bureau of American 
Ethnology 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, officework, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1969, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended 
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau "to continue independently 
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American In- 
dians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of 
the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic 
remains." 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 
(Prepared from data submitted by stafif members) 

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director of the Bureau, devoted a 
portion of the fiscal year to office duties and the general supervision 
of the activities of the Bureau and the River Basin Surveys. In 
September he went to the Mesa Verde National Park in southwestern 
Colorado as a consultant to the Research Committee of the National 
Geographic Society. Wliile there he visited a number of ruins that 
are to be excavated to obtain new information on the aboriginal peo- 
ple of the region and also to provide additional exhibit areas for 
visitors to the park. As a result of the conferences on the Mesa Verde, 
the National Geographic Society made a grant to the National Park 
Service to assist in the excavation program on Wetherill Mesa. It is 
contemplated that the digging will continue over approximately six 
field seasons. Following the sessions on the mesa, Dr. Robei-ts spent 
a day at Hovenweep National Monument on the Colorado-Utah line 
north of the McElmo Canyon area where the late Dr. J. Walter 
Fewkes, a former Chief of the Bureau, carried on investigations some 
50 years ago. Judging from Dr. Fewkes's report and the condition 
of the area today, there has been little change since he first described 
the towers for which the area is famous. 

After his return to Washington, D.C., Dr. Roberts went late in 
September to Athens, Ga., and visited a number of projects in other 
parts of Georgia and South Carolina where salvage operations were 
underway, and participated in discussions relative to continuing work 

836608—60 5 55 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

in the area. During the early part of November he went to Austin, 
Tex., where he attended the Second International Congress of His- 
torians which was being held at the University of Texas. He served 
as one of the commentators at the session on Pre-Hispanic peoples in 
the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Following his 
return to Washington he took part in the sessions of the American 
Anthropological Association, and toward the end of the month went 
to Lincoln, Nebr., to discuss various problems in Plains archeology 
with members of the Missouri Basin project staff and to attend the 
sessions of the Annual Plains Conference for Archeology. During 
December Dr. Eoberts was a member of a panel at one of the sessions 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, where 
the subject of "Anthropology in the Federal Service" was presented. 

In January Dr. Roberts attended the meetings of the Committee 
for the Recovery of Archeological Remains held at the Department 
of the Interior in Washington, D.C., and presented a summary of the 
results of the preceding year's activities of the River Basin Surveys. 
He also took part in discussions pertaining to future plans for the 
Inter- Agency Archeological Salvage Program. At the end of Jan- 
uary he went again to Georgia where he met with representatives from 
the National Park Service, various State and local institutions, and 
assisted in the preparation of plans for a salvage program along the 
Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. Early in June he 
went to Colorado where he examined collections pertaining to early 
inhabitants of the Western Plains area at the Denver Museum of Nat- 
ural History and in the University Museum at Boulder. Returning 
to Nebraska he spent several days at the field headquarters and lab- 
oratory of the Missouri Basin project at Lincoln where plans were 
being completed for the summer's investigations in reservoir areas 
along the Missouri River in South Dakota. From Nebraska Dr. Rob- 
erts returned to Washington. 

Durmg the fall and winter months Dr. Roberts reviewed several 
draft manuscripts of technical reports and returned them to their 
authors with suggestions for correction and revision. In addition, 
he did the technical editing on a series of six reports on historic sites 
archeology in the Missouri Basin which will appear as Bulletin 176 
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Arctic re- 
search and activities. Material was assembled for an analysis of the 
"Tunnit" legends of the Canadian Eskimos, which describe in some 
detail the aboriginal inhabitants of the Canadian Arctic. On the 
basis of recent archeological investigations, particularly those by 
Dr. Collins in the Hudson Bay region, it appears that the mysterious 
Tunnits were in fact the prehistoric Dorset Eskimos rather than the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 57 

Thule as previously assumed. Also in preparation was an article 
evaluating recent arclieological discoveries in Alaska and northeast 
Siberia and their bearing on pre-Eskimo and Eskimo culture se- 
quences and relationships in the Bering Strait area. 

In December Dr. Collins attended a 2-day conference on polar re- 
search held at Hanover, N.H., under the auspices of Dartmouth Col- 
lege and the National Academy of Sciences Committee on Polar Ke- 
search. The conference discussed the probable future course of polar 
research m this country and the advisability of establishing a research 
institute to coordinate and administer scientific research in the Arc- 
tic and Antarctic. 

In June Dr. Collins went to Burke County, Ga., to examine an old 
Indian village site near Waynesboro where Dr. Eoland Steiner in the 
1890's had collected an unusually large nmnber of flint implements, 
now in the U.S. National Museum. The implements, numbering some 
16,000, were of particular interest because most of them were deeply 
patinated and were types which are now recognized as belonging to the 
Archaic period ; one of the types, an unusual form of asymmetric knife 
or scraper, was identical with a specialized form characteristic of 
the prehistoric Dorset culture of the eastern Canadian Arctic. 
Through the cooperation of Raymond De Laigle, clerk of court of 
Burke County, and his brothers, Ray and Roy De Laigle, it was pos- 
sible to locate the site from county records. It was found to be very 
much as described by Steiner 70 years ago and still prolific in stone 
artifacts and rejectage. A sizable collection of flint implements and 
flakes from this and other sites around Waynesboro was brought 
back for study. 

Dr. Collins continued to serve as a member of the research commit- 
tee of the Arctic Institute of North America, which evaluates appli- 
cations for research grants, and of the publications committee, which 
exercises supervision of the Arctic Institute's quarterly journal Arctic, 
its Technical Papers, and its series of Special Publications. As chair- 
man of the directing conmaittee, Dr. Collins also devoted considerable 
time to the planning, supervision, and financing of the Arctic Bihli- 
ography, which is prepared by the Arctic Institute for and with the 
support of the Department of Defense. This comprehensive ref- 
erence work abstracts and indexes the contents of publications in all 
languages and in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub- 
arctic regions of the world. Volume 8, containing abstracts of 5,623 
publications in 1,281 pages, was scheduled for publication by the 
Government Printing Office early in July 1959, and work on volume 
9 is underway. Subject fields receiving special emphasis in volume 
8 include body systems, human and other; botany; construction; 
disease ; ecology ; economic and social conditions ; environmental effects 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

of darkness, light, and low temperature on man, animals, and plants ; 
Eskimos; expeditions, especially Russian; fishes and fisheries; frost- 
bite ; geology ; hypothermia ; ice and ice conditions ; insects ; meteorol- 
ogy ; physiology, human and animal ; Siberian native peoples ; snow ; 
transportation. These and some 230 other topics are listed alpha- 
betically in the index and, as necessary, also under the name of the 
particular locality or major geographical region to which they per- 
tain. Heretofore the Arctic Bibliography has been supported almost 
entirely by the Department of Defense. During the past year addi- 
tional generous support has been provided by the National Science 
Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, and the National 
Geographic Society. 

Dr. Collins also made plans for a Russian translation project 
vrhereby the Arctic Institute, with the support of the National Science 
Foundation, would make available to American anthropologists 
translations of Russian publications on the archeology, ethnology, 
and physical anthropology of Siberia. 

Dr. "William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent the first part of the 
fiscal year in Washington at work on various projects related to his 
Seminole and Seneca research. He also prepared for publication a 
paper on the economic uses of Zamia, a cycad with a large under- 
ground st«m from which starch has been extracted for centuries by 
various Indian and other inhabitants of the West Indies and Florida. 
Another paper brought to completion reconsiders, with negative re- 
sults, the ethnological evidence for contacts between Indians of the 
southeastern United States and the West Indies (previously widely 
considered to have been quite significant for the history of the culture 
of the southeastern tribes). Brief papers were completed on the his- 
tory of the classification of eastern Siouan languages (published in 
American Anthropologist), on the authorship of J. W. Powell's 
famous classification of North American Indian languages published 
by the Bureau of American Ethnology in 1892, and on two new tech- 
niques for etlinographic field work. Dr. Sturtevant's pamplilet 
"Anthropology as a Career," issued by the Institution in July 1958, 
proved so useful to students and their advisers throughout the country 
that a second printing was required in May 1959. 

In mid-Februaiy Dr. Sturtevant left for Florida to begin 6 months' 
fieldwork among the Seminole Indians, with the support of a grant 
from the National Science Foundation. This was a continuation of 
the fieldwork Dr. Sturtevant conducted among th^e people before 
joining the Smithsonian staff. Besides filling in gaps in informa- 
tion obtained during previous trips, Dr. Sturtevant has concentrated 
on studying Seminole knowledge and uses of plants, both wild and 
cultivated. These Indians are the only ones in the eastern United 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 59 

States who still use agricultural techniques once common to all the 
Indians of this region but heretofore undescribed by careful observers. 
Fields are cleared by cutting and burning, planted without fertilizer, 
and soon abandoned for new fields when fertility decreases and weeds 
become difficult to control. In addition to the ancient North Ameri- 
can Indian crops — com, pnmpkins, and beans — the Seminole grow 
a number of plants that were introduced from the West Indies during 
and after the 18th century (banana, sugarcane, sweetpotato, taro, 
elephantear [Xanthosornd]^ manioc, papaya, guava, citrus). Semi- 
nole knowledge of wild plants is also extensive, and they still use 
many of them for medicine, food, and in the manufacture of utensils 
and other artifacts. Dr. Sturtevant found that at least two dozen 
fields are being cultivated with aboriginal methods, but intensive 
study of these fields and other aspects of Seminole society and culture 
has been even more difficult than he anticipated, owing largely to 
increased political factionalism and antagonism toward inquisitive 
outsiders. 

Dr. Sturtevant compiled genealogical information preparatory to 
collaboration with Dr. Jolm Buettner-Janusch, a physical anthro- 
pologist at Yale University, on a study of the genetic characteristics 
(chiefly blood groups) of the Seminole, who certainly have fewer 
non-Indian ancestors than any other surviving eastern tribes. 

Besides collecting herbarium specimens of plants used and recog- 
nized by the Indians, Dr. Sturtevant made an etlmological collection 
to supplement the Seminole holdings of the National Museum. He 
paid particular attention to clothing, since Seminole styles have 
changed rapidly but are still unique in many respects, and objects 
made for sale. The latter are an important part of Seminole econ- 
omy and involve objects quite different from those usually made for 
sale by other tribes. 

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, ethnologist, joined the stail of the Bureau in 
April but did not report for duty until June as he was completing 
teaching duties at the University of Buffalo. Dr. Chafe spent the 
3 weeks before departing on June 29 in preparing for fieldwork on the 
Seneca reservations in western New York State. He will gather 
material that will enable him to complete a Seneca dictionary and 
will make further tape recordings of religious and mythological texts. 
This work was started under the sponsorship of the New York State 
Museum and Science Service and is being continued as a cooperative 
effort. 

On June 3, 1958, Carl F. Miller was temporarily transferred from 
the staff of the River Basin Surveys to that of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology in order that he might continue directing the excava- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Expedition which had been started in 1956 at Russell Cave in Ala- 
bama. This third season of work continued through Sej^tember 29 
and brought to completion the investigations at that site. Russell 
Cave has contributed extensive information pertaming to Indian 
peoples who inhabited that area over a considerable period of time. 
Several cultural horizons are represented, the earliest of which is 
some 9,020±350 years old on the basis of carbon-14 dating of charcoal 
from a liearth at that level. The first peofjles apparently had a com- 
pletely hunting-fishing economy and from that progressed through 
what is called the Archaic period to a more sedentary mode of life 
and became makers of pottery. The latter handicraft appeared at 
about 3500 B.C. The culture subsequently developed into what is 
known as the Early Woodland and continued through stages known 
as Middle and Late Woodland. It was during these three stages that 
agriculture became a part of their economy. The latest occupation 
seems to have been by Chickamauga Cherokee Indians in the early 
1600's. During the 1958 season Mr. Miller reached the original and 
lowest floor in the cave, some 43 feet below the present floor. How- 
ever, no evidence of occupation was found below the 37-foot level. 
During the course of the digging he found a fifth burial which helped 
to throw additional light on the mortuary customs of the people who 
inhabited the cave. 

While in northern Alabama, Mr. Miller visited several other caves, 
also Indian sites in the open, and studied many local collections in 
order to correlate the cultural remains from Russell Cave with those 
of the surrounding areas, particularly those attributable to Early 
Man phases. Mr. Miller also spoke before different groups of people 
in Bridgeport and Hunts ville, Ala., and in South Pittsburg, Richard 
City, and Tullahoma, Term. Following his return to Washington on 
October 4, Mr. Miller devoted his time to the preparation of reports. 
In November and December he attended meetings of the American 
Indian Ethnohistoric Conference and the American Anthropological 
Association in Washington, D.C., and w^as one of the speakers at the 
Southeastern Archeological Conference in Chapel Hill, N.C. Mr. 
Miller returned to duty on the River Basin Surveys staff December 
14, 1958. 

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

The River Basin Surveys continued its program for salvage arche- 
ology in areas to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the construction 
of large dams. These investigations were carried on in cooperation 
with the National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of 
the Department of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the De- 
partment of the Army, and several State and local institutions. Dur- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 61 

ing the fiscal year 1958-59 the work of the River Basin Surveys was 
supported by a transfer of $162,000 from the National Park Service to 
the Smithsonian Institution. Of that sum, $137,000 was for use in 
the Missouri Basin and $25,000 was for investigations along the 
Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. The Missouri Basin 
Project had a carryover of $22,173 on July 1, 1958, and that, with 
the new appropriation, provided a total of $159,173 for the program 
in that area. The grand total of funds available for the River Basin 
Surveys for 1958-59 was $184,173. 

Field investigations throughout the year consisted mainly of exca- 
vations, although some limited surveys were carried on. On July 1, 
1958, 10 parties were in the field, all of them working in the Missouii 
Basin in South Dakota. Five of the parties were doing intensive 
digging in the Big Bend Reservoir area near Fort Thompson, four 
were excavating, and one was doing survey testing in the Oahe Reser- 
voir area north of Pierre. Most of the field parties had returned to 
their headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., by the end of August. Two 
small parties made brief investigations in the Merritt and Big Bend 
Reservoir areas during December and January. In February three 
parties began excavations and test excavations along the Chattahoo- 
chee River in Alabama-Georgia. The latter continued operations 
until late in June, when work was stopped and the men returned to 
their headquarters. Early in June a party from the Missouri Basin 
project headquarters began excavations in several sites in the construc- 
tion area for the Big Bend Dam in South Dakota. 

As of June 30, 1959, reservoir areas where archeological surveys 
had been made or excavations carried on since the begimiing of field- 
work by the River Basin Surveys in the summer of 1946 totaled 
254, located in 29 States. Two lock projects and four canal areas 
had also been examined. The survey parties have located 4,909 
archeological sites, and of that number 1,017 have been recommended 
for excavation or limited testing. The term "excavation" in this re- 
spect does not imply the complete uncovering of a site, but rather 
digging only enough of it to obtain a good sample of the materials 
and information to be found there. While many of the locations 
are unquestionably of sufficient importance to warrant complete exca- 
vation, the needs of the salvage program make it impossible to con- 
duct so extensive an investigation at any one location. 

Preliminary appraisal reports have been issued for all the reservoir 
areas surveyed, with the exception of the three along the Chattahoo- 
chee River. The manuscripts of two of those reports have been com- 
pleted and the third is well underway, so that all of them will be 
processed early in the coming fiscal year. The preliminary appraisal 
report for the Big Bend Reservoir area in South Dakota was mime- 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

ographed and distributed in October 1958. Since the start of the 
Inter- Agency Archeological Salvage Program, 185 appraisal reports 
have been issued. In a munber of cases the information obtained 
from several reservoir projects located within a single basin or sub- 
basin have been combined in one report and for that reason there is 
a discrepancy between the number of reservoirs surveyed and that of 
the reports issued. 

At the end of the fiscal year, 434 sites in 54 reservoir basins located 
in 19 different States had been either partially or extensively dug. 
In some reservoir areas only a single site was excavated, while in 
others a whole series was studied. At least one example of each type 
of site recommended by the preliminary surveys had been investi- 
gated. "Where some of the larger and more complex types of village 
remains were involved, it was necessary to dig a number of somewhat 
similar sites in order to obtain full information about that particular 
phase of aboriginal culture. The sites investigated represent cultural 
complexes ranging from the early hunting peoples of approximately 
10,000 years ago to early historic Indian village remains and frontier 
trading and army posts of European origin. Reports on the results 
obtained in some of the excavations have appeared in the Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the Bureau of American 
Ethnology, and in various scientific journals. During the year River 
Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 9 through 14, comprising BviUetin 166 
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, were published and dis- 
tributed. The papers consist of three reports on excavations in the 
Missouri Basin, one on digging in the Alatoona Reservoir in Georgia, 
one on investigations in six sites in the Jim Woodruff Reservoir basin 
in Florida, and one on historic sites in and adjacent to the Jim Wood- 
ruff Reservoir area in Florida-Georgia. The Missouri Basin reports 
were written by Paul L. Cooper, Robert B. Gumming, Jr., and Carlyle 
S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr. Those pertaining to the South- 
east were prepared by William H. Sears, Mark F. Boyd, and Ripley 
P. Bullen. River Basin Papers Nos. 15-21, which will constitute 
Bulletin No. 176 of the Bureau of American Ethnology, were sent 
to the printer in March. That series of papers pertains to studies 
in historic sites in the Fort Randall, Oahe, and Garrison Reservoir 
areas in South Dakota and North Dakota. Nine detailed technical 
reports were completed during the year and are ready for publication 
when the funds suflBcient to cover their cost are available. In addi- 
tion, the first and second drafts of seven technical reports were 
finished. The final drafts should be ready early in the next fiscal year. 

As of June 30, 1959, the distribution of the reservoir projects that 
had been surveyed for archeological remains was as follows: Ala- 
bama, 4 ; Arkansas, 1 ; California, 20 ; Colorado, 24 ; Georgia, 8 ; Idaho, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 63 

11; Illinois, 2; Iowa, 3; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 

2; Minnesota, 1; Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New 
Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 13; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; 
Pennsylvania, 2 ; South Carolina, 1 ; South Dakota, 10 ; Tennessee, 4 ; 
Texas, 19 ; Virginia, 2 ; Washington, 11 ; West Virginia, 2 ; Wyoming, 
22. 

Excavations were made or were underway in reservoir basins in: 
Arkansas, 1; California, 5; Colorado, 1; Iowa, 1; Georgia, 7; Kansas, 
5; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4; 
Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 4; South Carolina, 2; South Dakota, 4; Texas, 
7 ; Virginia, 1 ; Washington, 4 ; West Virginia, 1 ; Wyoming, 2. Only 
the work of Eiver Basin Surveys or that which was in direct coopera- 
tion between the Surveys and local institutions is included in the 
preceding figures. Investigations carried on under agreements be- 
tween the National Park Service and State and local institutions have 
not been included because complete information about them is not 
available. 

Throughout the year helpful cooperation was received from the 
National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, Corps of Engi- 
neers and other Army personnel, and various State and local insti- 
tutions. The Corps of Engineers provided transportation and guides 
for work in one of the reservoir areas and the Commanding Officer 
at Fort Benning in Georgia assigned certain Army personnel to as- 
sist in some of the investigations made in that portion of the Walter 
F. George Eeservoir basin which lies in the Fort Benning Reserva- 
tion. Helicopters were also furnished on several occasions to enable 
the archeologists to take aerial photographs of several sites in the 
reservoir area. In the Missouri Basin temporary headquarters and 
living accommodations were provided at several projects and storage 
space was made available so that much of the field equipment could be 
left at Pierre, S. Dak., during the winter months. The construction 
agency lent mechanical equipment in several instances to assist in 
heavy excavation and the backfilling of trenches and test pits. The 
various party leaders from the River Basin Surveys were given as- 
sistance by field pei-sonnel of all the agencies and the work was greatly 
expedited as a result. The National Park Service continued to serve 
as the liaison between the various agencies in the field as well as in 
Washington. The estimates and justifications for the funds needed 
to carry on the salvage program were also prepared by the Park 
Service. In Georgia the University of Georgia, the Georgia Histon- 
cal Commission, and various local clubs and groups of citizens were 
particularly helpful to the parties working along the Chattahoochee 
River. 



64 ANNUAL REPORT S^nTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The main office in Washington continued general supervision of 
the program, while the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, 
Nebr., was responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin, and 
in addition provided equipment and office assistance for the parties 
engaged in the Chattahoochee River project. The materials collected 
by excavating parties m the Missouri Basin, as well as those from 
the Chattahoochee Basin, were processed at the Lincoln laboratory. 

Washington office. — The main headquarters of the River Basin Sur- 
veys at the Bureau of American Etlmology continued under the 
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. As previously men- 
tioned, Carl F. Miller, archeologist, was detailed to the regular 
Bureau staff for the period July 3 to December 14, 1958. After 
his return to the River Basin Surveys staff, Mr. Miller completed 
the final revision of his report on the "Archeology of the John H. 
Kerr Reservoir, Southern Virginia and Northern North Carolina." 
The report includes a summary of the many sites located during the 
course of the original survey of the area, as well as detailed informa- 
tion on those which were excavated by Mr. ]\Iiller. After submit- 
ting the John H. Kerr report, Mr. Miller began work on the final 
report pertaining to the investigations that he made at the Hoster- 
nian site (o8P07) in the Oahe Reservoir area. South Dakota, dur- 
ing a previous field season. The report was approximately one-half 
complete at the end of the year. During the winter and spring 
months Mr. Miller spoke before several teachers' organizations in the 
Washington area, addressed a meeting of the Narragansett Archeo- 
logical Society at Providence, R.I., the Archeological Society of 
Virginia in Richmond, and the Southern Branch of the Archeologi- 
cal Society of Maryland at Bethesda, Md. Most of his talks pertained 
to the Russell Cave explorations, although the one given at Bethesda 
compared the materials from the John H. Kerr Reservoir with those 
from the Shepard Barracks site in Maryland where excavations were 
carried on by the Maryland Society. In June, JMr. Miller read proof 
on an article about Russell Cave, which is to appear in a book on 
National Parks and Monuments in the United States being issued 
by the National Geographic Society. In January Mr. Miller received 
the Franklin L. Burr Award from the National Geographic Society 
in "recognition of his outstanding contributions to the science of 
geography and early American history through the archeological 
investigations of Russell Cave, Alabama." At the end of the fiscal 
year Mr. Miller was working in the Washington office. 

On October 13, 1958, Harold A. Huscher was transferred from 
the Missouri Basin project to the Chattahoochee River project. He 
was under the general supervision of the Washington office but con- 
tinued to work at the headquarters in Lincoln, Nebr., where he 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 65 

completed reports on the surveys made during the previous year at 
the Oliver and Columbia Keservoir projects on the Chattahoochee 
River. He also virtually completed the first draft of his preliminary 
appraisal of the archeological explorations in the Walter F. George 
Reservoir area. In early Februaiy, Mr. Huscher returned to the 
Chattahoochee Basin and from then until late June carried on a 
series of investigations in the Columbia and Walter F. George Res- 
ervoir basins. Wliile working in Alabama and Georgia, Mr. Huscher 
spoke before numerous clubs and local groups, took part in several 
radio broadcasts devoted to archeological problems along the Chatta- 
hoochee River, and appeared on several TV broadcasts. He returned 
to the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., on June 30. 

In February, Robert W. Neuman and G. Hubert Smith were trans- 
ferred to the Chattahoochee River project and under general direc- 
tion from the Washington office proceeded to that area. Mr. Neu- 
man, during the period February 9 to June 23, carried on excavations 
in the vicinity of the Columbia Dam axis in Georgia and did test 
digging in one large mound on the Alabama side of the river. While 
in Georgia, Mr. Neuman spoke before various local clubs and groups 
of interested citizens. He also appeared on a TV interview pertain- 
ing to the salvage program and spoke before the Macon, Ga., Archeo- 
logical Society. He returned to the field headquarters at Lincoln, 
Nebr., on Jime 27. Mr. Smith worked at two locations in the Walter 
F. George Reservoir area, one in Georgia and one in Alabama. He 
also talked before a number of local organizations. Mr. Smith 
returned to the field headquarters on June 17. 

Alabama-Georgia. — During the period February through June a 
series of test excavations was carried on at a number of sites in the 
areas to be flooded by the Columbia Dam and Lock and the Walter F. 
George Dam and Lock. Robert W. Neuman worked in seven sites 
on the Georgia side of the Chattahoochee River in the vicinity of the 
Columbia Dam axis. Six of the sites dated from the Archaic period 
and extended into Middle Woodland times. The seventh site on the 
Georgia side represented a historic Creek occupation dating about 
A.D. 1830. A good collection of materials was obtained from all 
these sites and the specimens will aid materially in working out the 
cultural stages in that area. On the Alabama side of the river Mr. 
Neuman excavated in the remains of a large mound which was being 
destroyed by the river. Some work had been done there many years 
ago by Clarence W. Moore, but there was little information pertam- 
ing to the general character of the mound. Mr. Neuman obtained 
information relative to the method of its construction and several 
stages in its growth. Further work is contemplated at the site. 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Harold A. Huscher carried on a series of excavations in four sites 
on the axis of the Columbia Dam 2i/2 miles below Columbia, Ala. 
The area is one of extensive sandy bottoms and, with minor varia- 
tions, the sites produce Weeden Island pottery types in the surface 
levels and to a depth of about 2 feet. There is also a scattering of 
Stallings Island potsherds, steatite fragments, and large heavy- 
stemmed projectile points down to about 4i/^ feet below the surface. 
Some of the flint flakes and points from the deeper levels have been 
completely altered chemically to a chalky residue. Similar points 
were found previously on the Macon plateau by Dr. A. R. Kelley 
and were described by him in Anthropological Paper No. 1, which 
appeared in Bulletin 119 of the Bureau. Mr. Huscher made maps 
and detailed excavation plans for these sites. 

Construction work was underway on the Walter F. George Dam 
in early February and Mr. Huscher made a series of 10- by 10-foot 
test excavations in three sites which were tlireatened with immedi- 
ate damage. One of them at the Georgia end of the dam axis yielded 
a variety of trade goods, including the mechanism of a flintlock. 
The site probably represents the location of a Creek village of about 
A.D. 1800. Another site on the Georgia side, a short distance above 
the dam, and one on the Alabama end of the dam axis, produced 
plain Early Mississippian pottery. The material from the Alabama 
site indicated pottery with angled-loop handles similar to the ware 
that has been called Bibb Plain. The pottery from the Georgia 
site had flat strap handles with vertical incised decoration. The 
pottery characteristics are so defuiite that it is possible to correlate 
the wares with those from other sites in the general area. 

Mr. Huscher later moved upstream and began the investigation of 
two sites on the Fort Benning Military Reservation. One of them 
on the Georgia side is an Early Lamar site and seems to contain a 
single "pure" component. The site had been destroyed to a large 
extent by Army bulldozers building a road, but trenches in two 
separate remnants revealed post-hole patterns that apparently rep- 
resented two rectangular houses. A nearby midden area yielded a 
good representative sample of pottery types associated with the 
houses. The second site was on the Alabama side of the river just 
north of Uchee Creek. It is a Swift Creek-Weeden Island site and 
has an older underlying level. Sgt. David W. Chase, curator of the 
Infantry Museum at Fort Benning, Ga., had done some work there, 
and because of the evidence he had obtained, indicating that it would 
be a type site for the Swift Creek-Weeden Island phase of Middle 
Woodland in the area, it was extensively tested by the Huscher party. 
Beneath the Middle Woodland levels in a portion of the site there is 
a bed of white sand which has yielded fiber-tempered potsherds of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 67 

the Stallings Island type and fragments from steatite vessels. This 
stratigraphic evidence augments that found in other locations along 
the river. Sergeant Chase turned over to the Eiver Basin Surveys 
party extensive notes and collections resulting from liis previous 
work at both sites. He also assisted Mr. Huscher in making detailed 
plane-table maps of the sites and plans of the excavations. 

G. Hubert Smith excavated in two historic sites in the Walter F. 
George Keserv^oir Basin. One of them on the Georgia side of the 
river was the location of the village of Eoanoke, a colonial settlement 
that had originally been occupied by Creek Indians but was subse- 
quently taken over by the whites who lived there from 1831 until the 
community was destroyed by Indians in May 1836. Because of the 
long period in which the area was under heavy cultivation, Mr. Smith 
was unable to determine the settlement pattern or to obtain outlines 
for any of the village structures. He did, however, obtain an ex- 
tensive collection of specimens attributable both to the white occupa- 
tion and that by the Indians. Careful study of the material may 
provide information that will be useful in dating some of the other 
late Indian sites along the river. From the Roanoke site JMr. Smith 
went to one on the Alabama side in Russell County, which was the 
location of a fort built and occupied by the Spaniards from 1689 to 
1091. The fort known as Apalacliicola was probably the most north- 
ern outpost of the Spanish occupation in the Southeast and was 
erected for the purpose of stenmiing the southward expansion of 
the English. The Spaniards possibly did not occupy the fort con- 
tinuously, but lived at times in an adjacent Indian village. The fort 
was destroyed by the Spaniards to prevent its falling into the hands 
of English traders from the Carolinas who were operating among 
the Creek Indians. Mr. Smith did not dig in the fort proper but 
confined his investigations to the area immediately suiTounding it in 
order to delimit the extent of the fortifications and to determine the 
proximity of Indian occupation. The fort remains will not be sub- 
jected to flooding by the Walter F, George Reservoir, but the maxi- 
miun pool level will not be far distant and may damage the remains 
to some extent as a result of seepage. Consequently it is thought that 
a thorough study should be made of the site at a later date. Further- 
more, associations between Spanish and Indian objects will provide 
a helpful checking point in establishing chronology of the area, j)ar- 
ticularly since the exact dates for the fort are known. After complet- 
ing the investigations at the two sites, Mr. Smith assisted Mr. Huscher 
in making detailed plane-table maps and trench plans for both. 

In addition to the test excavations described above, Mr. Huscher 
located and recorded 10 new sites in the Walter F. George and Co- 
lumbia areas and made collections from 46 sites. At the end of the 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

season's work along tlie Chattalioocliee, all the records and collections 
of the three field parties were sent to the laboratory of the River Basin 
Surveys at Lincoln, Nebr., for processing there and for use in the 
preparation of reports on the investigations. 

The only other work by the River Basin Sui^eys pertaining to 
Georgia was that of Carl F. Miller, who completed a report on the 
test digging that he did during the previous year at the Tugaloo site 
in the Hart well Reservoir area. However, the University of Georgia 
ill cooperation with the National Park Service carried on a series of 
investigations in the Oliver Reservoir Basin and at the Standley 
Farm site, also laiown as Stark's Clay Landing, in the Walter F. 
George Reservoir on the Georgia side of the river. Work was con- 
tinuing at the latter location at the end of the fiscal year. 

Arkansas. — No field work was carried on in Arkansas during the 
year ended June 30, 1959. However, a detailed teclmical report, 
"Archeological Investigations in the Dardanelle Reservoir Area of 
West-Central Arkansas," was completed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell. 
The report consists of 85 typed pages, 2 maps, 8 plates, and 6 text 
figures. It will be published as a River Basin Surveys paper when 
printing funds for that purpose are available. 

Kansas. — The only work done by the River Basin Surveys pertain- 
ing to Kansas during the fiscal year was the completion of a detailed 
teclmical report on the excavation of four sites in the Lovewell Reser- 
voir area on "Wliite Rock Creek in Jewell County in the north-central 
part of the State. The report was written by Robert W. Neuman and 
is entitled, "Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Lovewell 
Reservoir Area, Kansas." It consists of 84 typed pages, 12 plates, 
and 3 text figures, and will be published as a River Basin Surveys 
paper. 

The Kansas State Historical Society at Topeka caiTied on surveys 
and did some test digging in the Pomona and Melvern Reservoir 
areas under a cooperative agreement with the National Park Service. 
The Pomona Dam is to be built on the 110-Mile Creek, and Melvern 
Dam will be in the Marais de Cygnes River. 

Missouri River Basin. — The Missouri Basin project continued to 
operate fi'om the field headquarters and laboratory at 1517 O Street, 
Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served as chief of the 
project throughout the year. Activities included work on all four 
phases of the salvage program: (1) Survey, (2) excavation, (3) anal- 
ysis, and (4) reporting. Most of the effort during the summer months 
was directed toward the second phase, with only minor attention to 
the first phase. The third and fourth phases received the major at- 
tention in the winter months. The special chronology program, be- 
gun last fiscal year, was continued. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 69 

At the begiiuiing of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition 
to the chief, consisted of six archeologists (one of whom was on loan 
to the National Park Service), one clerk-stenographer, one file clerk, 
one clerk-typist, one photographer, one illustrator, and four museum 
aides. Temporary employees included 1 archeologist, 1 physical an- 
thropologist, 2 field assistants, 3 cooks, and 90 crewmen. 

During the year, I archeologist was transferred to the staff from 
the Chattahoochee Project on July 21, 1 cook joined the temporary 
staff on July 9, and 16 temporary crewmen were added in July. Dur- 
ing the last week of August and the first week of September, all 
temporary crewmen and three cooks were terminated, and one cook 
was transferred from that position to laboratory assistant. The tem- 
porary archeologist was terminated on September 12, and the two 
field assistants were tenninated on August 29 and September 5, re- 
spectively. The physical antliropologist was terminated on September 
2, and one museum aide was transferred from full time to half time 
on Sei^tember 15. The archeologist on temporary -detached duty with 
the National Park Service returned to the permanent staff on October 
1. One archeologist was transferred on October 13 to the Chatta- 
hoochee Basin project. 

On September 23, one archeologist was assigned temporary- detached 
duty for 8 weeks with the National Park Service to conduct excava- 
tions at Fort Laramie National Monument, Wyo. He returned to the 
Missouri Basin project on November 15. On December 4, one arche- 
ologist was assigned temporary-detached duty for 3 weeks with the 
National Park Service to conduct excavations at George Washington 
Carver National Monument, Mo. He returned to the Missouri Basin 
project on December 21. On February 9, two archeologists were trans- 
ferred for temporary duty with the Chattahoochee Basin Project. 
Tliey returned to the Missouri Basin project on June 17 and 29, re- 
spectively. One museum aide resigned to take other employment on 
March 20, and one archeologist was permanently transferred to the 
National Park Service on May 30, to join the staff of the Wetherill 
Mesa Research project, Mesa Verde National Park, Colo. During 
June, six temporary crewmen were employed. 

At the end of the fiscal year there were five archeologists, in addi- 
tion to the chief, one administrative assistant, one clerk-stenographer, 
one file clerk, one clerk-typist, one illustrator, one photographer, and 
three museum aides on the permanent staff, and one laboratory assist- 
ant and six crewmen on the temporary staff. 

During the year there were 14 Smithsonian Institution River Basin 
Surveys field parties at work witTiin the Missouri Basin. Of the 14 
Missouri Basin parties, 5 were at work in the Oahe Reservoir area 
during July and August, and 5 others were at work in the Big Bend 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Reservoir during July and August. Two small parties were at work 
during December and January, respectively, in brief investigations 
in the Merritt and Big Bend Reservoir areas. One party was at work 
in the Big Bend Reservoir area and a second (mobile) party was 
working in the general Missouri Basin area in June. 

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included 
10 parties from State institutions operating imder cooperative agree- 
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the 
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage 
Program. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year, in the Oahe Reservoir area, 
Dr. Robert L. Stephenson and a crew of 20 men were engaged in 
excavations at the Sully site (39SL4). This was the third and final 
season of work at this, the largest of the earth-lodge village sites in 
the Missouri Basin. The site was situated on the second terrace of the 
Missouri River, 21 miles above Pierre, in Sully County, S.Dak. The 
1958 investigations were concentrated largely in the central and east- 
ern portions of the site. These, with those of the two preceding 
seasons, provided a reasonably equal sample of features and specimens 
from all portions of the site. Excavation technique differed some- 
what in the 1958 season. During the 1957 season, whole houses were 
excavated, but the surrounding areas outside were not examined. In 
1958 only one house was excavated in this manner. In the other ex- 
cavation units, only half houses were dug, but the surroimding areas 
on three sides of each house were also excavated. In this way portions 
of 19 houses were investigated, with most of the essential structural 
details obtained from all but two of them. Experience of the previous 
seasons' work at this site suggested that more could be learned of the 
total village pattern in this way, and that excavation of complete 
houses was neither necessary nor economically feasible. Besides the 
house areas, half of a ceremonial lodge, two large cache-pit areas, a 
scaffold area, a midden heap, and another portion of the "plaza" were 
also excavated, and two midden areas were tested. Thus all or parts 
of 32 of the nearly 400 houses have been excavated, as have been 3 
of the 4 ceremonial lodges, a scaffold area, several cache-pit areas, 
midden heaps, and a "plaza." Numerous tests were made in an effort 
to locate a fortification ditch or stockade, but none was found. 

Emphasis was placed, in the field, upon securing architectural in- 
formation, and good superposition of varying types of dwelling 
houses was obtained. Two distinct, circular, dwelling-house types 
were present, one with a series of widely spaced large wall posts of 
an early period, and one with a series of small, closely set wall posts 
of a later period. There was considerable variation within each type. 
The earlier type had short entry ways, while the later one had medium- 



Secretary's Report, 1939 



Plate l 




1. Seminole settlement in the Everelades. 




>,ii tt-^*^ 






2. Digging up edible roots ot clfpliaut-tar {Aaniliosonui sp.j, a plant cultivated 

by the Seminole. 



Secretary's Report. 1959 



PLATE 2 




1. Aerial view of a Seminole field in the Everglades. 




:. Coin growing in a Seminole field in the Big Cypress Swamp. 



Secretary's Report, 1959 



Plate 3 





', ;■ 










1. Excavation ot l-'cature 1, a portion of a circular housr cxpuscd m slump bank along 
Missouri River at the Ziltener Site (39SL10) in the Oahe Reservoir area, South Dakota. 
Most of the house had washed away but the remainder was undisturbed, with a fair 
floor and post holes dug into soft silt. River Basin Surveys. 












'^ ifH^ 








-. (.''" -x^ i-.nin;.' iriiKiins at the l'ii!;,,ir \i.iii>!,i Site (,i'M-)l''224), a group 
burial mounds of the pre-earth-lodge peoples in the Big Bend Reservoir area, 
Dakota. River Basin Surveys. 



of six 

South 



Secretary's Report. 1959 



PLATE 4 




(See legend on opposite page.) 



PLATE 4 

Representative examples of pottery vessels from various sites in the Missouri Basin, 
(a) From site 25FT17, an Aksarben Aspect site in Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebraska, 
(b) From Leavitt Site (39ST215), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota, (c) From White Swan 
Mound Site (39CH9), a Woodland Site in Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota, (d) From 
Leavitt Site (39ST215). (e) Stanley Tool Impressed vessel from Phillips Ranch Site 
(39ST14), Oahe Reservoir, (f) From Leavitt Site (39ST215). (g) Colombe Collared 
Rim vessel from Phillips Ranch Site (39ST14). (h) Foreman Cord Impressed vessel from 
Dodd Site (39ST30), Oahe Reservoir, (i) Mitchell Broad Trailed vessel from Dodd Site 
(39ST30). (j) From Cheyenne River Site (39ST1), Oahe Reservoir, (k) Stanley Braced 
Rim vessel from Dodd Site (39ST30). (1) Truman Plain Rim vessel from Truman 
Mounds Site (39BF224), Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota, (m) From White Swan 
Mound Site (39CH9). (n) From Site (48FR84), Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming. Only 
known restored vessel from Wyoming, (o) From Leavitt Site 09ST215). 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 71 

to-long entryways. The earlier houses were of rather uniform size 
(about 36 feet in diameter), while the later ones ranged from 19 
feet to 47 feet in diameter. A unique feature was the presence of two 
concentrically superimposed ceremonial lodges, using almost the same 
floor level. One was 77 feet in diameter, superimposed upon one that 
was 64 feet in diameter. All the large ceremonial lodges excavated 
at the Sully site (as well as several of the lat^r dwelling houses) were 
actually polyhedral rather than round, and had between 9 and 12 
sides. 

All occupations of this site were relatively late, with both major 
components (additional minor components have yet to be differenti- 
ated) in the circular-house tradition and probably relating to the 
period between roughly A.D. 1600 and 1750. Tlie pottery sample 
and other artifact inventory is large and varied, but no assessment 
of it has been made at this time. This field party disbanded on Au- 
gust 23, after 10 weeks in the field. 

The second River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir 
area consisted of a crew of eight men, under the leadership of William 
M. Bass III, physical anthropologist. This party devoted the major 
part of the season to excavations in the burial areas of the Sully site 
(39SL4) . This was a continuation of work begun in 1957 on a some- 
what smaller scale. Work was concentrated in three areas (Features 
218, 219, and 220) and 161 burials were recovered, bringing the num- 
ber of burials excavated at the Sully site to 224. Only a preliminary 
analysis of the skeletal remains has been made. Bodies were interred 
in shallow oval pits dug into an old surface about 1 foot below the 
current soil level. Burials were predominantly flexed or semiflexed 
and oriented with the head toward the west or northwest. A group 
burial, recovered from Feature 218, appears to be the remnant of a 
scaffold burial. Many of the graves had a covering of small poles, 
but few had grave goods included. The grave goods that were re- 
covered included pottery vessels, ornaments, and an occasional cat- 
linite pipe. 

The Bass party, in addition to work at the Sully site, excavated 
nine rock-caim burials at the Whistling Hawk site (39SL39), a 
rather ephemeral site on the same terrace 2 miles east of the Sully 
site. Burials were found in each caim, but significant skeletal re- 
mains were scanty, as most of the bones were badly deteriorated. 
Artifacts with these burials were few. 

At the end of the field season, the Bass party devoted a short period 
to the excavation and collection of a group of burials and associated 
artifacts from a site (39YI^02) recently discovered in the course of 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service construction work near the Gavins 
Point Dam. Only the prompt action and complete cooperation 

588608—60 6 



fc<^ 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

of the Commission, the local contractor, the Corps of Engineers, 
members of the Yankton College staff, the National Park Service, 
and the Smithsonian Institution made this salvage operation success- 
ful. The burials proved to be of a group of Woodland people and 
included an appreciable number of personal ornaments, as well as a 
good series of skeletal remains. This party disbanded on August 23, 
after 8 weeks in the field. 

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area 
at the beginning of the year was comprised of a crew of 10 men under 
y the direction of Charles H. McNutt. This party conducted excava- 
tions at a series of sites in the Fielder Bottom- Telegraph Flat area 
near the Sully site. The work was a continuation of excavations be- 
gun the season before, designed to sample the smaller sites in the 
immediate vicinity of the Sully site, in order to round out the story 
of the prehistoric occupations of this once heavily populated area. 
At the Sully School site (39SL7), one house was excavated in its 
entirety, and portions of four more houses were exposed. Three test 
trenches were cut across the fortification ditch, and a large series of 
midden tests, cache pits, and subsidiai-y features were excavated. Be- 
cause of the two seasons' work there the total artifact sample is ex- 
tensive. The architectural information recovered is less satisfactory. 
The gumbo fill present in many of the features made it extremely 
difficult to determine structural characteristics. Two occupations were 
present, one represented by rectangular houses and pottery similar 
to that from the Thomas Riggs site, the other by circular houses and 
pottery in the La Roche tradition. Only part of the site was fortified. 
The rectangular-house occupation was confined within the fortifica- 
tion ditch, but the circular-house occupation was found both within 
and without the ditch. There is additional ceramic evidence that the 
fortification probably dates from the former, rather than from the 
latter, occupation. 

The Ziltener site (39SL10) was located along a treeless cutbank 
of the Missouri River bottoms approximately 3 miles southeast of 
the Sully site. Informants had reported that a number of skulls and 
artifacts were eroded from- the bank from time to time by the amiual 
spring rises in the river. The bank was carefully watched for several 
seasons by River Basin Surveys parties, but with little success. In 
1958 a storage pit and a house profile were visible, and a small cache 
was found where it had slumped from the cutbank. The remainder 
of the house and the storage pit were excavated. The house was 
circular, and the pottery of the La Roche tradition. 

The Nolz site (39SL40) was located on a terrace remnant below 
and somewhat to the southwest of the Sully site. Tlu-ee very faint 
house depressions were visible as surface features. Two of these 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 73 

were trenched and the third was half excavated. Central hearths 
were found in all cases. Three additional tests were made on the 
site. Artifact recovery was fair, but architectural data were poorly 
represented, owing to the shallow depth of fill above house floors 
and the clayey nature of the soil. The houses were probably circular 
and the pottery in the La Roche tradition. 

The Zimmerman site (39SL41), located on the same terrace as the 
Nolz site, consisted of a village area marked by about 40 large round- 
to-oval depressions. One rectangular house was excavated com- 
pletely, and half the fill of a second was removed. A midden area and 
12 cache pits were also excavated. There was no indication of the 
presence of any other component. Three exploratory trenches were 
dug, in an effort to find a fortification ditch, but no satisfactory ditch 
profile was discovered. The total data indicate that this was a single- 
component site, characterized by long-rectangular houses and Thomas 
Riggs pottery. 

The Glassholl site (39SL42) was situated on the Zimmerman-Nolz 
terrace below the west end of the Sully site. According to an in- 
formant, tlie area was once used for cavalry exercises by Fort Sully 
personnel. In the past, sherds were collected from the surface there, 
and one test excavation (1953) had provided additional evidence 
of aboriginal occupation. No well-defined house depressions were 
apparent, but several surface anomalies were visible. A^Hierever tested, 
they proved to be the result of activities attributable to the occupa- 
tion of Fort Sully in the late 19th century. Trenching during the 
1958 season yielded historic specimens, a cache pit, and a part of an 
aboriginal dwelling. The latter was found on the last day of the 
field season. Artifact recovery was fair, and although some archi- 
tectural features were well preserved, few details were discernible. 
Pottery is simple-stamped and somewhat like the Thomas Riggs 
materials, but it appears to be a distinctive variant. 

Site 39SL27, a large, unnamed site on Telegraph Flat, 1 mile east 
of the Sully site, has several visible but shallow "house" depressions. 
Three small pits dug in the centers of depressions yielded neither 
artifacts nor architectural features. Additional work is needed at 
this site. 

The Whistling Hawk site (39SL39) comprised a large area along 
the edge of Telegraph Flat terrace, east of 39SL27. A single pit 
excavated into a deep (house?) depression yielded no artifacts or 
architecture, although the Bass party excavated rock-cairn burials 
at the site. 

Two sites not situated in Fielder Bottom were also tested. Site 
39SL19 was a low-lying area in the Little Bend region, 18 miles 
upstream from the Sully site. Two small, shallow pits were dug to 



74 AisnsnjAL report Smithsonian institution, 1959 

examine the fill, and the site was walked carefully. No indication of 
a village and no cultural material were found on the surface. This 
area Avill probably be flooded in 1959 and no further efforts there 
seem justified. The Pitlick sit« (39HU16) , 8 miles downstream from 
the Sully site, is the northernmost site in the Peoria Bottom group. 
It will not be flooded in 1959, but will probably slump badly. Two 
large trenches and two deep test pits were excavated. One trench 
cut through the shoulder and floor of a house, the other through a 
fortification ditch. One of the deep test pits may have cut through 
a house floor. No artifacts were recovered at the site. This party 
disbanded on August 23, following 10 weeks in the field. The Stephen- 
son, Bass, and McNutt field parties sliared camp facilities near the 
Sully site in Fielder Bottom. 

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir 
/ area consisted of a crew of nine, directed by Richard P. Wlieeler. It 
investigated a series of sites on the right bank of tlie iMissouri River 
in the Fort Bennett area, 36 river miles above Pierre, Stanley 
County, S. Dak. The principal effort was directed toward excava- 
tions at the H. P. Thomas site (39ST12). A total of 60 circular 
earth-lodge depressions is apparent in area 1 of the site, and 21 
depressions are suggested in area 2. Three lodges were excavated 
in ai-ea 1 and two in area 2. Overburden was removed from six addi- 
tional lodges by bulldozer, and four dozer-cut trenches were carried 
across the moats in each area. Three midden deposits in area 1 were 
excavated, one containing a fragment of the floor pattern of a house. 
Three of the suggested five components appear to be assignable to 
the Snake Butte, Stanley, and Ajiderson-Monroe Foci, as defined by 
Lelimer for the Oahe Dam area. 

At the Agency Creek site (39ST41), adjacent to site 39ST12, seven 
small test pits and one bulldozer trench were excavated. Since time 
did not permit detailed investigation of these sample excavations, 
little can be said of the cultural implications of the site, although 
laboratory analyses of the artifacts wiU prove informative. Addi- 
tional tests were made at the Lounsbury site (39ST42) and at the 
Ramsey site (39ST236), the latter situated midway between 39ST41 
and 39ST42. At the Lounsbury site, test pits were excavated into the 
centers of two circular-house depressions, exposing the central 
hearths. The overburden was bulldozed from the surface of one 
house, but the structure was not fully excavated. The Ramsey site 
appears to be a series of middens only, and a stratigraphic cut, 6 feet 
by 10 feet, provided an abundance of artifacts but no house remains. 
These test excavations at the Agency Creek, Lounsbury, and Ramsey 
sites yielded thin, horizontally incised rim sherds and simple-stamped 
body sherds characteristic of the Bennett Focus as suggested earlier 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 75 

at the Black Widow (39ST3) and Meyers (39ST10) sites. This party 
disbanded on August 25 and returned to the headquarters in Lincoln 
after 10 weeks in the field. 

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Oahe Reservoir 
area began work on July 25. It consisted of Harold A. Huscher and 
a crew of two men and worked primarily on the left bank of the 
Missouri River in Stanley County, S. Dak. This survey-mapping- 
testing crew investigated a series of six sites along Black Widow 
Ridge, 3 to 6 miles above the H. P. Tliomas site, mapping and testing 
each. They are sites 39ST25, 39ST50, 39ST3 (Black Widow), 
39ST49, 39ST203, and 39ST201. The Huscher party mapped all four 
sites being excavated by the Wheeler party, 39ST12, 39ST41, 39ST42, 
and 39ST236, and mapped and tested three other sites some 10 miles 
below the H. P. Thomas site. These are sites 39ST37, 39ST38, and 
39ST39. In addition, this party mapped and assisted the McNutt 
crew in testing the Pitlick site (39HU16) on the left bank of the 
Missouri River. Huscher was severely injured in a fall from a photo- 
graphic ladder on August 24, thus terminating the work of this 
field party after 4 weeks in the field. Following 514 weeks in the 
hospital and another month of recuperation, he returned to duty on 
October 13. Tlie Wlieeler and Huscher parties shared a joint field 
camp near Fort Bennett. 

In the Big Bend Reservoir area there were five River Basin Surveys 
field parties at work at the beginning of the fiscal year. The first con- 
sisted of a crew of 12 men under the dire<5tion of William N. Irving 
and included an assistant trained in geology to aid in investigations 
of stratigraphic terrace sequences relating to the geological-archeo- 
logical interpretations of the sites and their immediate vicinity. This 
party concentrated its efforts on the excavation of the early occupa- 
tions of the Medicine Crow site (39BF2) , begun last season, and other 
preceramic sites in the immediate vicinity. These sites are located 
near Old Fort Thompson on the left bank of the Missouri River, in 
or near the construction area of the Big Bend Dam, Buffalo County, 
S. Dak. At the Medicine Crow site, three major occupation zones, 
each containing two or more components, are distinguishable on the 
basis of the vertical distribution of point types within a 3- to 6- 
foot section of primarily aeolian silt. The basal section of a small 
fluted point was found in the lowermost occupation zone. From 
the same zone, however, came points that resemble those of the Fron- 
tier Complex, and others suggesting a long temporal range for the 
basal portion of the deposit. 

Additional investigations were made at two sites, 39BF238 and 
39BF250, that had not been recorded previously, and at the Aiken 
site (39BF215). Only at the latter were immediately significant re- 



76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

suits obtained. Limited excavations there indicated five occupational 
layers and two well-defined, buried soils. At least two ceramic hori- 
zons are present, in the upper levels, one with simple-stamped or plain 
pottery, the other with cord-marked body sherds. Several additional 
occupations, in stratigraphically earlier positions, have yielded 
neither pottery nor other diagnostic artifacts. The great depth of 
deposit and the presence of buried soils may make possible a consid- 
erable refinement in the stratigraphy of late preceramic remains in 
the Big Bend Reservoir area. Geological investigations carried on 
by Alan H. Coogan in the area of the lower portion of this reservoir 
were intended to obtain information bearing upon chronology and 
the environmental sequence of the Medicine Crow, Aiken, and other 
early sites in the area. The possibilities for correlation of terrace, 
moraine, and other depositional features appear to be excellent. The 
Irving party disbanded on September 4 and returned to the Lincoln 
headquarters after 13 weeks in the field. 

The second River Basin Surveys party in the field in the Big Bend 
Reservoir area was a crew of 11 men under the direction of James 
J. F. Deetz. This party spent the entire season in excavation of the 
late (village occupation) components (areas B and C) of the Medi- 
cine Crow site (39BF2). The work was done in conjunction with 
that of the Irving party in an effort to provide a comprehensive pic- 
ture of the site as a whole. In all, 16 houses were completely exca- 
vated, and 4 were tested with varying intensity. Included within the 
houses were 16 cache pits. Eleven cache pits were excavated in the 
interhouse living areas. A single burial was recovered. Three well- 
defined components have been established for the ceramic period of 
this site and a fourth, less adequately outlined component is proposed. 
The Stanley Component (latest) is characterized by a predominance 
of Stanley Braced Rim pottery ; circular houses, 25 to 30 feet in diam- 
eter with hard, light-colored floors; mortar pits; and absence of 
interior cache pits. Five domestic and four specialized house struc- 
tures are included in this component. The specialized houses were 
grouped about a "plaza" and included a ceremonial lodge, 50 feet in 
diameter, with an altar, plastered floor, and silled entrance. The 
Fort Thompson Component resembles that at the Oacoma site, but 
may be somewhat later. Talking Crow ware predominates. Houses 
range from 35 to 40 feet in diameter, have vaguely defined floors, 
in-floor caches, and lack mortar pits. Four such structures were 
excavated during the 1958 season. There were two cases of superim- 
position, with Stanley houses above Fort Thompson houses. A third, 
umiamed, component is represented by a series of large bell-shaped 
cache pits excavated in area C. These affiliate most closely with the 
Two Teeth site (39BF204) a short distance to the southeast. Talking 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 77 

Crow Straight Rim pottery predominates. The fourth component, 
occurring in area A, is represented by a house with an indistinct post 
pattern buried in Stanley and Fort Thompson refuse. The associated 
ceramics are varied, and at this time no definite assessment can be 
made of them. 

The investigations in areas A and C at the Medicine Crow site 
represent the first clear-cut Stanley occupation excavated south of 
the Oahe Reservoir. It is also important to note that a temporal re- 
lationship can now be established between the components involved. 
European trade materials found in association with Stanley features 
may be helpful in providing absolute dates for the latest occupation. 
The Deetz party terminated fieldwork on August 30 after 12 weeks 
in the field. 

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir was 
comprised of a crew of 10 men, under the leadership of Robert W. 
Neuman. This party excavated or tested a series of four sites in the 
vicinity of Old Fort Thompson and three sites on the right bank of 
the Missouri River, in and adjacent to Good Soldier and Counselor 
Creeks. All seven sites are within the dam-construction area. The 
initial effort was devoted to the Akichita site (39BF221) located in 
the Missouri River bottoms adjacent to Old Fort Thompson. The 
site had been tested during the 1957 season, but although extensive 
evidence of occupation was recovered, no house structures were found. 
A network of five extended test trenches, excavated during the 1958 
season, was equally unsuccessful in locating habitations. Cache pits 
were the only structures uncovered. The artifact collection is exten- 
sive, and shows clear relationship to the Anderson-Monroe material 
from the Dodd site (39ST30) near Pierre, S.Dak. At site 39BF220, 
situated about 1 mile west of the Akichita site, much of the occupa- 
tion area has been washed into the river. Two excavation units, each 
30 feet by 60 feet, produced only a limited artifact return. However, 
a number of pottery types were recovered. The inventory suggests 
that the site was occupied by circular-house people. 

The Truman Mound site (39BF224) , also in the Old Fort Thompson 
area, on the first terrace overlooking the river, was revisited for a 
second season in order to excavate the remaining two of the six mounds 
originally present there. The mounds, 1 to 2 feet in height, 50 feet 
in diameter, contained two types of burials: (1) secondary interments 
in shallow circular pits, (2) primary burials in deep oval pits. Arti- 
fact material recovered from the site suggests Woodland affiliation, 
but the conical-shaped vessels excavated are clearly simple-stamped, 
rather than the Woodland cord-marked type. In a stratum beneath, 
and not associated with the mounds, excavations recovered a nimiber 
of stone artifacts. The most diagnostic type is represented by a tri- 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTmjTION, 1959 

angular point with a concave base. In the same stratum were ovoid 
knives, crude scrapers, a long-stemmed drill, hand-size cobbles, and 
fragments of bison bone. No pottery was in association. Site 
39BF270, located about 2 miles west of 39BF224, consisted of four 
low circular mounds, three of which were excavated. The recovered 
artifacts compare closely with those from the Truman Mound site. 

At site 39LM238, on the west side of the Missouri at the mouth 
of Good Soldier Ci'eek, where the west abutment of the dam is to be 
built, a large "mound" was extensively cross-trenched and a series of 
test pits were excavated in an effort to locate village remains. The 
"mound" proved to be of natural origin (165 feet long, 90 feet wide, 
5 feet high) but capped by two occupational deposits separated strat- 
igraphically by a stratum of sterile yellow silt. The upper component 
contained simple-stamped pottery, triangular points, scattered post 
molds (many with bone wedges), and a few shallow firepits. The 
lower component contained cord-paddled pottery, large side-notched 
points, shallow basin-shaped firepits, and a large rock-filled hearth. 
A small rock shelter (39LM239), located about a mile and a half 
upstream from Good Soldier Creek, was briefly tested. It was 
thought that this site might possibly be the "Truteau Cave," histori- 
cally known to have been used as winter quarters by the trader Tru- 
teau in 1794. Excavation demonstrated the shelter to be sterile of 
any cultural material. Site 39LM6, a deeply buried, multicomponent 
village site at the mouth of Counselor Creek, 3 miles upstream fi'om 
site 39LM238, was visited, and an eroding cache pit excavated. Some 
additional collecting was done, but no further excavation was at- 
tempted. The Neuman party terminated fieldwork on August 22, 
after 14 weeks in the field. The Neuman, Irving, and Deez parties 
shared camp facilities near the Brule Landing, 5 miles upstream from 
Old Fort Thompson. 

A fourth Eiver Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area consisted of nine men, directed by Bernard Golden. This 
party conducted excavations at the Hickey Brothers site (39LM4), 
located on the right (west) side of the Missouri Eiver, about 7 miles 
north of the Lower Brule Agency. The site is situated on the first 
terrace above the river, just north of the constricted neck of the Little 
Bend. The occupation area is delineated by a well-preserved fortifica- 
tion ditch. The latter is "coffin shaped" in plan, with bastions at 
the corners and in the intervening runs of wall. A single comer 
bastion was excavated, exposing a shallow moat backed by a pendulum 
loop of stockade posts. The stockade line was further verified along 
one of the long walls, and a series of 25 test pits was excavated to 
sample the body of the site. Four of the shallow "house" depressions 
within the fortification were tested by area excavation and trenching. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 79 

Kesults were limited. A relatively constant stratigraphy was re- 
vealed, but no aboriginal habitations were located with certainty. At 
least one hearth and other evidences of very localized "camp" areas 
were excavated, but artifacts were remarkably scarce. A limited 
number of potsherds (Stanley, Thomas Riggs) constitute the most 
distinctive material. A portion of the site had been disturbed by 
recent farming activities, but at best it does not seem to have been 
heavily occupied. This crew terminated fieldwork on August 20, 
after 10 weeks in the field. 

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area had a crew of 14 men under the leadership of Dr. Warren 
W. Caldwell. Work of this party consisted of excavations at two 
sites immediately to the south of the Hickey Brothers site, on the 
first terrace of the Missouri River. The major portion of the season 
was devoted to continuing excavations begun in the 1957 season at 
the Black Partizan site (39LM218), a large multicomponent earth- 
lodge village, situated one-fourth mile south of the Hickey Brothers 
site. Four houses within the fortification ditch were exposed. In 
addition, deep cross sections of the moat were cut at two places, and 
two extensive midden areas were sampled by trenching. Several 
differing house patterns were recovered. The most distinctive con- 
sisted of a small (18-foot diameter) square(?) house with rounded 
comers, large intramural cache pits, and a dearth of house posts 
Thomas Riggs pottery was characteristic. Two circular houses were 
exposed, one 35 feet in diameter, the other 29 feet in diameter. The 
larger, containing many bone and stone-wedged post holes, overlay 
a large rectangular hou^. Associated cache pits are probably at- 
tributable to the latter structure rather than to the former. Braced 
rims and typical Thomas Riggs rims are both present. The smaller 
circular house was characterized by an abnormally large group of 
in-floor cache pits. The pottery sample is varied and much of it may 
predate the house. 

The deep midden debris overlying much of the site contained pot- 
tery rim sherds with horizontal trailed or incised decoration. Be- 
neath the midden, a series of large cache pits produced an abundance 
of Talking Crow pottery. The fortification ditch varies from 32 to 
15 feet in width and from 4 to 6 feet in depth, and contains both 
water- deposited silt and midden fill. The latter normally contains 
cord-marked body sherds and a scattering of mammal bone. 

At site 39M215, lying between the Black Partizan and the 
Hickey Brothers sites, only a single house was excavated. Site 
39LM215 physically overlaps both of the latter sites. The two houses 
dug at 39LM218 in 1957 appear to be associated with it. The single 
structure excavated this year wan characterized by Talking Crow 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

pottery and an abundance of sheet-copper fragments. This party 
broke camp and returned to the Lincoln headquarters on August 12, 
after 9 weeks in the field. The Caldwell and Golden parties shared 
a joint field camp, situated adjacent to the sites under excavation. 

The practice of using joint field camps of two or three parties 
each has, in the past two seasons, proved very economical and efficient. 
Combining of activities and expenses of several parties and the con- 
sequent reduction in total quantity of field equipment, vehicles, num- 
ber of cooks, and other expenses constitute a major saving. Having 
several archeologists in a single camp is of great help in discussions 
pertaining to excavation methods and general archeological 
interpretations. 

During the winter months two very brief Missouri Basin project 
field parties were at work in the Missouri Basin. William N. Irving 

y visited the Merritt Reservoir area and the nearby vicinity in north- 
central Nebraska from December 2 through December 7. Tliis one- 
man party made extensive examinations of a number of the small 
Sandhills lakes for possible localities in which to collect fossil pollen. 
This was in connection with building a master pollen profile which 
will aid in interpreting the archeological sequences at sites in the Big 
Bend Eeservoir and other reservoir areas in the central portion of 
the Missouri Basin. A second purpose of the trip was to determine 
whether recent construction activity in the Merritt Reservoir area was 
endangering any previously unknown archeological remains. The 
potentialities for collecting fossil pollen looked very favorable, but 
actual collecting had to await colder weather when the lakes would be 
frozen over. No new archeological material that would be disturbed 
by work within the Merritt Reservoir area was noted. 

The second wintertime River Basin Surveys field party within the 

^' Missouri Basin consisted of William N. Irving and Lee G. Madison, 
who were in the field from January 19 through the 30th. This party 
was accompanied by Dr. Paul B. Sears, pollen specialist from Yale 
University, who kindly volunteered his services in order to assist in 
this important aspect of the salvage program. The group visited the 
vicinity of the Big Bend Reservoir area and collected an extensive 
series of pond-deposit samples for x^oUen analysis. Dr. Sears has 
kindly agreed to analyze these samples for fossil pollen, and in fact 
has already begmi such analyses. At least one core sample has pro- 
vided a long pollen sequence, and others look promising. If a master 
profile can be established from these and other samples, it will assist 
greatly in identifying the vegetations and climates of past ages. By 
superimposing the pollen samples from archeological sites excavated 
in the Big Bend and other related reservoir areas upon this master 
pollen profile, climatic and ecological contexts can be determined for 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 81 

these sites and the age of the sites thus be correlated with the climatic 
changes. Details of ecology are thereby added to the archeological 
records salvaged from the reservoir to provide a fuller picture of the 
prehistory of the area. 

The 1959 summer field season in the Missouri Basin began in the 
Big Bend Reservoir area on Jime 4 with a single small crew, en- 
camped near the Hickey Brothers site on the right bank of the Mis- 
souri River in Lyman County. Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and a crew 
of six began work on a series of sites at and near the proposed right 
(west) abutment of the Big Bend Dam, near the mouths of Good . 
Soldier Creek and Counselor Creek. On Good Soldier Creek, site 
39LM235 was found to have been largely destroyed by construction 
during the winter of several small boat-landing ramps, but test pits 
were excavated in the remaining portion of the site. Very little ma- 
terial was recovered. The nearby site, 39LM236, was found to be 
completely inundated by an unusually high water level in the Fort 
Randall Reservoir and no work was possible. At the mouth of Coun- 
selor Creek, the Useful Heart site (39LM6) was extensively trenched 
and full-scale excavation of this earth-lodge village site was in prog- 
ress at the end of the year. 

The only other Missouri Basin project party at work in June was 
a team of physical anthropologists consisting of William M. Bass, III, 
and two assistants. This team, working out of the Lincoln office, 
began operations on June 17 at the Department of Anthropology, 
University of Nebraska, making metric analyses of a large group of 
human skeletal remains from several reservoir areas in the Missouri 
Basin, and from other sites in the area. The team spent 5 days on a 
trip to the University of Oklahoma at Norman to make similar 
analyses, and at the end of the fiscal year was back in Lincoln study- 
ing the skeletal remains from sites in the Oalie Reservoir area. This 
party was materially assisted by a grant-in-aid to Bass from the 
University of Pennsylvania, Child Growth and Development Center, 
tlirough the kindness of Dr. Wilton K. Krogman. This grant pro- 
vided the salary for Bass and one assistant during June. 

Cooperating institutions at work in the Missouri Basm at the be- 
ginning of the fiscal year included a party from the University of 
South Dakota, directed by Eugene B. Fugle, excavating at the Four 
Bears site (39DW2) in the Oahe Reservoir area; a party from the 
University of Idaho, directed by Dr. Alfred E. Bowers, excavating 
for the second season at the Rygh site (39CA4) in the Oahe Reser- 
voir area; a joint party from the University of North Dakota and 
the State Historical Society of North Dakota, under the direction of 
Dr. James H. Howard, excavating at the Tony Glas site (32EM3) in 
the Oahe Reservoir area ; a pai-ty from the University of Wyoming, 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

directed by Dr. William Mulloy, excavating at a series of sites in the 
Glendo Reservoir in Platte County, Wyo. ; and a party from the 
University of Missouri, directed by Carl Chapman, in the Pomme de 
Terre Reservoir area of west-central Missouri. At the end of the 
fiscal year cooperating institutions were : A party from the University 
of Kansas, directed by Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, excavating at the 
Strieker Village site (39LM1) in the Big Bend Reservoir; a joint 
party from the University of North Dakota and the State Historical 
Society of North Dakota, directed by Dr. James H. Howard, excavat- 
ing at the Huff site (32M011) in the Oahe Reservoir area; and two 
parties from the University of Missouri, directed by Carl F. Chap- 
man, excavating at a series of sites in the Pomme de Terre Reservoir 
and making preliminary surveys in the Kassinger Bluff Reservoir 
area of west-central Missouri. All these parties were operating 
through agreements with the National Park Service and were coop- 
erating in the Smithsonian Institution research program. 

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field, they 
were engaged in analyses of their materials and in laboratory and 
library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical scien- 
tific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular nature. 

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, begun by tlie staff 
archeologists of the Missouri Basin project in January 1958, con- 
tinued to function throughout the current year. This is a coopera- 
tive program, bringing together the enthusiastic support and wide 
range of experience of 34 individuals representing 20 research insti- 
tutions working in the Missouri Basin area. This program, directed 
toward a more precise understanding of time sequences of the pre- 
historic cultures represented by the sites being excavated, is already 
beginning to be useful in more efficient planning of salvage opera- 
tions. Concrete results are being realized with a minimum expendi- 
ture of time and funds. The program includes intensive research 
in dendrochronology, and in this phase the field crews have collected 
wood specimens to be used in developing two master charts, one for 
the lower Big Bend Reservior area and one for the lower Oahe 
Reservior area. Sufficient wood is now on hand to begin preparing 
the master charts into which archeological wood samples may later be 
fitted. In addition, plans are in progress for the services of a full- 
time dendrochronologist, working on other fmids, to concentrate his 
efforts on this problem. Research in radioactive carbon- 14 analyses 
is well imderway within the framework of the program, and 11 speci- 
mens have been submitted to the University of Michigan Memorial- 
Phoenix Project Laboratory under the direction of Prof. H. R. Crane. 
Dates have been returned on all 11, and a second series of specimens 
is being prepared for submission. Pollen samples have been collected 
and are being analyzed by Dr. Paul B. Sears of Yale University. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 83 

Others have already been analyzed by Mrs. Catherine Clisby of 
Oberlin College, preparatory to establishing a fossil pollen sequence. 
Geologic-climatic investigations have been carried out by Alan H. 
Coogan, who was employed for the purpose by the River Basin Sur- 
veys. He worked in collaboration with William N. Irving in the 
lower Big Bend Reservior area. Other less specific researches are in 
progress to bring all possible chronology techniques to bear on this 
one basic framework for Missouri Basin chronology. 

The laboratory and office staff devoted its full time during the 
year to processing specimen materials for study, photographing speci- 
mens, preparing specimen records, and typing and filing of records 
and manuscript materials. The accomplislunents of the laboratory 
and office staff are listed in the f ollowinir tables : 



Table 1. — Specimens processed July 1, 1958, through June SO, 1959 



Reservoir 


Number of sites 


Catalog numbers 
assigned 


Number of speci- 
mens processed 


Big Bend -. - 


50 
13 
4 
2 
1 
25 
3 


9,254 

1,975 

21 

10 

7 

8,668 

48 


71 281 


Dardanelle ' . _ 


4 461 


Fort Randall _ 


512 


Glendo . 


48 


Lewis and Clark _ _ 


158 


Oahe._ 


80 311 


Sites not in reservoirs 


194 


Collections not assigned site numbers. 


98 
5 


19, 983 
17 


156, 965 
83 




103 


20, 000 


157, 048 



In tlie ArJsansas Basin. 

Table 2. — Record materials processed July 1, 1958, through June SO, 1959 

Reflex copies of records 8,968 

Photogi-aphic negatives made 2, 792 

Photographic prints made 11, 888 

Photographic prints mounted and filed 5, 566 

Plate layouts made for manuscripts 71 

Transparencies mounted in glass 1, 108 

Cartographic tracings and revisions 72 

Color pictures talien in lab 434 

Artifacts drawn 66 

Lettering of plates 75 

Profiles drawn 45 

It is of especial interest to note that on January 22 the one-millionth 
specimen was processed by the Missouri Basin project laboratory. As 
of June 30, the Missouri Basin project had cataloged, in 13 years of 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

operation, a grand total of 1,074,418 specimens from 1,795 numbered 
sites and 54 collections not assigned site numbers, in 92 reservoir areas 
within the ISIissouri Basin. During the current fiscal year, 7 pottery 
vessels, 23 pottery vessel sections, and 1 stoneware bowl were restored, 
and 154 nonvessel artifacts were repaired. Archeological specimens 
from 3 sites in 2 reservoirs were transferred to the division of archeol- 
ogy, U.S. National Museum, and human skeletal remains from 26 
sites in 8 reservoirs were transferred to the division of physical an- 
thropology, U.S. National Museum. Archeological specimens 
(mostly trade goods) from three sites in one reservoir were trsms- 
feiTed to the Region Two Office, National Park Service, for display 
at the Jefferson National Westward Expansion Memorial Museum in 
St. Louis, Mo. The Missouri Basin project received, by transfer, 
from the University of Kansas, through the courtesy of Dr. Carlyle 
S. Smith, sample rim sherds of the Campbell Creek Indented type 
from the Talking Crow site (39BF3), and sample rim sherds of three 
varieties of the Cadotte Collared type from the Two Teeth site 
(39BF204) . These specimens have been added to the Missouri Basin 
project comparative collections. 

On July 26-27, archeologists of the staff of the Missouri Basin 
project joined with archeologists of the National Park Service and 
of State agencies at work within the Missouri Basin in a roundtable 
field conference in Pierre, S. Dak. This session, called the 15i^th 
Plains Conference, was devoted to basic technical problems arising 
from the current field activities, and such conferences are to become 
a regular feature each summer. During the Thanksgiving weekend, 
members of the staff participated in the 16th Plains Conference for 
Archeology, held in Lincoln. On April 17, members of the staff 
participated in the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of 
Sciences, also held in Lincoln. On April 30 and May 1 and 2, mem- 
bers of the staff attended and participated in the annual meeting of 
the Society for American Archaeology, held in Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field 
parties, devoted most of his time to managing the office and labora- 
tory in Lincoln and preparing plans and budgets for the 1959 summer 
field season. He spent a portion of his time working on a summary 
report of the Missouri Basin Salvage Program for the calendar years 
1952-58 and on the preparation of a manuscript reporting the "Arche- 
ological Investigations in the Whitney Reservoir, Texas." He com- 
pletely revised and submitted a manuscript, "Excavations at Pueblo 
Pardo, New Mexico," which he had prepared in collaboration with 
Joseph H. Toulouse, Jr., in 1941, for publication as a monograph of 
the School of American Research, Santa Fe, N. Mex. He prepared 
and submitted for publication by the Alice Ferguson Foundation of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 85 

Washington, D.C., a popular manuscript, "Preliistoric Peoples of 
Accokeek Creek." Throughout the year he served as chairman of 
the Missouri Basin Clii-onology Program. A photographic booklet, 
"The Inter- Agency Archaeological Salvage Program after Twelve 
Years," prepared by liim at the end of last fiscal year, was published 
in September. In July he served as chairman of the 151/^th Plains 
Conference held in Pierre, S. Dak. Dui'ing the Thanksgiving week- 
end he attended and participated in the 16th Plains Conference for 
Archeology, serving as cliairman for the half-day session on "Arche- 
ology of the Southern Plains," and presenting a paper on "The Sully 
Site" at another session. In January he attended and participated 
in the annual meeting of the Committee for the Recovery of Archaeo- 
logical Remains, held in Washington, D.C. In April he attended 
the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, presenting 
a paper on "Administration in Anthropology" which was published 
in abstract in the Proceedings of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. 
On April 30 and May 1-2, he attended the annual meeting of the 
Society for American Archaeology and presented two papers, "River 
Basin Salvage Problems Today" and "The Missouri Basin Chronology 
Program," both of which were published in abstract in Abstracts of 
Papers of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Society for American 
Archaeology. During the year he gave eight talks on various 
aspects of Missouri Basin Salvage Archeology at five local organi- 
zations' regular meetings. 

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, during the fall and winter 
months devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials 
recovered from sites he had excavated in the Dardanelle and Big 
Bend Reservoirs during the previous year. He completed all plates, 
figures, and manuscript text for the final report, "Archeological In- 
vestigations in the Dardanelle Reservoir of West-Central Arkansas." 
He prepared a brief technical report on "Firearms and Related 
Artifacts from Fort Atkinson, Nebraska" and another entitled 
"Comments on the 'English Pattern' Trade Rifles," both for publica- 
tion in the Missouri Archaeologist. He prepared a manuscript, pic- 
tures, and captions for a photographic booklet entitled "Gavins 
Point Dam and the Lewis and Clark Lake" for publication by the 
Corps of Engineers, U.S. Department of the Army; and submitted 
for publication in the Tree-Ring Journal, an article entitled "Den- 
di-ochronology and the Missouri Basin Chronology Program." He 
prepared a statement on "Plains Archeology and the Salvage Pro- 
gram" for publication in the Encyclopaedia Britannica Yearbook. 
In addition, he prepared several mimeographed statements for dis- 
tribution from the Missouri Basin project office, including "Report 
No. 3, Missouri Basin Project and Cooperating Institutions," and 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

"Statement No. 2, The Missouri Basin Chronology Program." His 
article "The Smithsonian Institution in Arkansas," prepared late 
last year, was published in the Ozark Mountaineer for July 1958. He 
prepared a book review of "Frontier Steel" by Arthur Rosebush, 
that was published in Nebraska History for March 1959. In July 
he attended and participated in the 15i/^th Plains Conference, held 
in Pierre, S. Dak. In November he attended the 16th Plains Con- 
ference for Archeology and served as chairman for the half-day 
session on "The Chronology Progi'am" and presented a paper on 
"The Black Partizan Site" at another session. In April he served 
as the general chairman of the annual meeting of the anthropology 
section of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, held in Lincoln, Nebr., 
and presented a paper entitled "Northwest Coast Archeology: An 
Interpretation," which was published in abstract in the Proceedings 
of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. During the year he served 
as chairman of the dendrochronology section of the Chronology 
Program and gave a talk to the North Omaha Kiwanis Club on 
"The Missouri Basin Salvage Progi-am." 

Harold A. Iluscher in July participated in the 15i/^th Plains 
Conference in Pierre, S. Dak., and in November attended the 16th 
Plains Conference for Archeology, where he served as chairman for 
the half-day session on "Field Reports" and presented two papers 
entitled "Mapping in the Fort Bennett Area" and "Chronologies 
from Ceramic Analysis." His other activities have been reported 
in a preceding section. 

William M. Bass, III, temporary physical anthropologist, partici- 
pated in the 15i^th Plains Conference in July and after the comple- 
tion of fieldwork, left the staff on September 2. During the spring 
montlis he devoted much of his own time to detailed metric analyses 
of the human skeletal remains excavated in the Oahe and other 
Missouri Basin reservoirs. On June 17 he returned to Lincoln to 
serve as party chief for the mobile physical anthropology team 
working in the general Missouri Basin area. 

William N. Irving, archeologist, when not in the field directing 
excavations, was in the Lincoln office analyzing materials he exca- 
vated during the previous two summers, particularly in regard to 
the Medicine Crow site (39BF2) and the Aiken site (39BF215). 
In July he attended and participated in the 15i^th Plains Con- 
ference at Pierre, S. Dak. On November 27-28 he attended the 16th 
Plains Conference for Archeology and presented two papers, "Pre- 
Ceramic Sites in tlie Big Bend Reservoir" and "Pre-Ceramic 
Chronology in the Big Bend Reservoir." In collaboration with Alan 
H. Coogan, he prepared a manuscript on "Late Pleistocene and Re- 
cent Missouri River Terraces in the Big Bend Reservoir, South 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 87 

Dakota" to be published in the Proceedings of the Iowa Academy of 
Sciences. He was on leave without pay from February 9 to April 
24, to complete work on a report on Arctic research previously done 
for Harvard University. On April 30 and May 1-2, he attended 
the annual meetings of the Society for American Archaeology. He 
served throughout the year as chairman of the geologic-climatic 
section of the Chronology Program. At the end of the year he was 
in the Lmcoln office, continuing work on his report on investigations 
at the Medicine Crow and related sites. 

James J. F. Deetz, temporary archeologist, participated in the 
1514th Plains Conference held in July. He completed his fieldwork 
on September 5 and terminated, his employment at that time. He 
spent a portion of his own time during the winter and spring 
montlis analyzing materials from, and preparing a report on, the 
ceramic components of the Medicine Crow site (39BF2). 

Alan H. Coogan, temporary field assistant, participated in the 
15i^th Plains Conference held in July. He completed his fieldwork 
and terminated his employment on August 29. In November he 
participated in the 16th Plains Conference for Archeology held in 
Lincoln, Nebr., presenting a paper entitled "The Physical Basis for 
Chronology in the Big Bend Reservoir." During the fall and winter 
months, on his own time, he pi-epared the report in collaboration 
with William N. Irving for publication in the Proceedings of the 
Iowa Academy of Sciences. 

Bernard Golden, temporary archeologist, completed his fieldwork 
and left the project on September 12. During the winter and spring 
months he devoted a portion of his own time to preparation of the 
first draft of a report on his 1958 excavations entitled "Excavations 
at the Hickey Brothers Site (39LM4), Big Bend Reservoir," which 
he submitted for review early in June. In July he participated in 
the 151/^th Plains Conference held in Pierre. 

Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, attended the 15i/Uh Plains Con- 
ference in July. Wlien not in the field conducting excavations, he 
devoted most of his time to analyses of materials he had excavated 
over the past 2 years and to preparation of reports. He served 
throughout the year as chairman of tlie carbon-14 section of the 
Chronology Program. On temporary-detached duty to the National 
Park Service from September 23 to November 15, for excavations 
at Fort Laramie National Monument, he completed a report on that 
work entitled "Excavations at Old Bedlam, Fort Laramie National 
Monument, 48G01, Wyoming, 1958." During the Thanksgiving week- 
end he participated in the 16th Plains Conference for Arche- 
ology, held in Lincoln, Nebr., and presented papers reporting 
on "Excavations in Fielder Bottom Area, Oahe Reservoir," "Exca- 

536608—60 7 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

vations at Fort Laramie National Monument," and "Kadiocarbon 
Dating in the Missouri Basin Chronology Progi-am." In April 
he prepared a paper for the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, 
entitled "Camments on Two Northern Plains Pottery Wares," 
published in abstract in the Proceedings of the Academy. 
From April Y to June 14 he was on leave without pay to complete his 
doctoral dissertation, which was submitted to the University of 
Michigan on June 29. On April 30 and May 1-2, he participated 
in the annual meetings of the Society for American Archaeology, 
held in Salt Lake City, Utah, and presented a paper entitled "Can 
Paraffin Be Removed from Charcoal Samples?" in collaboration with 
Dr. John L. Champe of the University of Nebraska. It was pub- 
lished in abstract in the Abstracts of Papers of the 24th Annual 
Meeting of the Society for American Archaeology. During the year 
he also continued work on a manuscript on ceramic taxonomy of 
the South Dakota area and presented two slide talks to local civic 
groups concerning Elver Basin Salvage Archeology. He also wrote 
an article, "Bibliography of Primary Sources for Radiocarbon Dates," 
in collaboration with Richard P. Wheeler, w^hich was published in 
American Antiquity^ volume 24, No. 3. At the end of the year he was 
preparing to begin fieldwork in the Oahe Reservoir area early in the 
next fiscal year. 

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, in July participated in the 15i/^th 
Plains Conference held in Pierre. During the time he was not in 
the field conducting excavations ho spent a large portion of his time 
in analyzing materials and preparing rej^orts of excavations con- 
ducted the previous two summers. September 29-October 3 he made 
a trip in company with Harry E. Weakly, who kindly contributed 
his time, to the Big Bend and Oahe Reservoir areas to collect dendro- 
chronological specimens. On November 27-28 he participated in the 
16th Plains Conference for Archeology, presenting a paper on "Arche- 
ological Investigations in the Fort Thompson Area." From Decem- 
ber 4 to 21 he was on temporary-detached duty with the National 
Park Service to conduct excavations at George Washington Carver 
National Monument. He submitted a final report on that work 
early in January. He prepared a report on "Representative Quill 
Flatteners from the Central United States," which was read in 
absentia at the Nebraska Academy of Sciences meeting in Lincoln 
on April 17, and which was published in abstract in the Proceedings 
of the Academy. From February 9 to June 29 he was transferred 
to the River Basin Surveys outside the Missouri Basin for work 
in the Chattahoochee River Basin. His activities there have been 
described in previous pages. At the end of the year he was back 
in the Lincoln office working on a report, nearing completion, on 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 89 

excavations in a series of mound sites in the Big Bend Reservoir 
area. 

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, at the begimiing of tlie fiscal year 
was on temporary-detached duty with the National Park Service, 
conducting excavations at Fort McHenry National Monument, in 
Baltimore, Md. He submitted a report on his findings in September. 
On October 1 he returned to duty with the Missouri Basin project 
and spent the period from then until February 9 compiling a com- 
prehensive report on several seasons' work at Site 32ML2, Forts 
Berthold I and II, and Like-a-Fislihook Village. This report will 
combine the findings of five archeologists during four seasons of 
work at this site in the Garrison Reservoir of North Dakota. In addi- 
tion there will be an ethnohistoric account of the site. In February 
he was transferred to the Chattahoochee Basin project where he 
remained until June 17, when he again returned to the Missouri Basin 
project. In November he attended the annual meetings of the Ameri- 
can Indian Ethnohistorical Conference and the American Anthropo- 
logical Association, held in Washington, D.C. At a symposium of 
the latter group he contributed a paper on "Interpretive Values of 
Archeological Evidence in Historical Research." During the year 
he had a previously written article entitled "Great Carrying Place" 
published in the Naturalist^ a quarterly publication of the Natural 
History Society of Minnesota. He prepared reviews of "The Indians 
of Quetico," by Emerson S. Coatsworth, for publication in the fall 
1958 issue of Etlinohktory^ and of "New Light on Old Fort Snel- 
ling," by John M. Callender, for publication in a future issue of 
Nebraska History. He also prepared a brief article describing 
the work at Fort McHenry and submitted it for publication in the 
Maryland, Historical Magazine. At the end of the year he was again 
at work on the comprehensive report on Site 39ML2, Forts Berthold 
I and II, and Like-a-Fishhook Village. 

Richard P. Wlieeler, archeologist, when he was not in the field, 
devoted his time to analyses of materials and preparation of reports 
on sites excavated by him in past years. He completed the final draft 
of his manuscript, "The Stutsman Focus: An Aboriginal Culture 
Complex in the Jamestown Reservoir Area, North Dakota." He 
also completed the major portion of a draft of a manuscript entitled 
"Mounds and Earthworks in the Jamestown Reservoir Area of North 
Dakota" and of another entitled "Three Stratified Occupation Sites 
in the Oahe Dam and Reservoir Area, South Dakota." In July he 
participated in the ISV^th Plains Conference held in Pierre, and in 
November attended the 16th Plains Conference for Archeology, held 
in Lincoln, presenting papers on "Investigations near Old Fort Ben- 
nett, Oahe Reservoir" and "Dendrochronology in the Central North- 



90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

em Plains," the latter in collaboration with Harry E. Weakly. In 
April he presented a paper at the Nebraska Academy of Sciences 
meeting entitled "Comments on 'Method and Theory in American Ar- 
cheology,' " which was published in abstract in the Proceedings of the 
Academy. On April 30 and May 1-2, he participated in the annual 
meetings of the Society for American Archaeology in Salt Lake City, 
Utah, and presented a paper entitled "The Middle Prehistoric Period 
in the Central Plains," which was published in abstract in the Ab- 
stracts of Papers of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Society for 
American Archaeology. During the year he collaborated with 
Charles H. McNutt, as previously mentioned, in an article that was 
published in American Antiquity. On May 30 he terminated his em- 
ployment with the Missouri Basin project and transferred to the 
National Park Service, joining the Wetherill Mesa project at Mesa 
Verde National Park. 

COOPERATING INSTITUTIONS 

A niunber of institutions and agencies cooperated in the Inter- 
Agency Salvage Program in several areas throughout the United 
States. In addition to those previously mentioned in the sections on 
the Missouri Basin and the State of Kansas, there were 19 working 
under agreements with the National Park Service. The University of 
Georgia continued its investigations at the Hartwell Reservoir on the 
Tugaloo River and conducted excavations in the Oliver and Walter F. 
George projects on the Chattahoochee River. The University of Ken- 
tucky made surveys and did some digging in the Barkley Reservoir 
area on the Cumberland River and the Nolin Reservoir Basin on the 
Nolin River. The New Jersey Museum did salvage work on Tock's 
Island, N.J. The University of Michigan carried on investigations 
along the Saginaw River in Michigan. The State University of Iowa 
did survey and test digging at the Rathbun project on the Chariton 
River in Iowa. The University of Oklahoma did some further work 
at Fort Gibson on the Grand River and at the Oolagah Reservoir on the 
Verdigris River. The University of Texas continued its operations in 
the Ferrell's Bridge area on Cypress Creek in eastern Texas and in 
the Diablo Reservoir region along the Rio Grande. Texas Western 
University also worked in the Diablo district. The School of American 
Research continued its studies in the Navaho Reservoir area along the 
San Juan River in northern New Mexico. The University of Utah 
and the Museum of Northern Arizona completed surveys in the Glen 
Canyon Reservoir area on the Upper Colorado River and started a 
series of excavations in a number of sit^. Tlie University of Ut-ah 
completed its investigation of the Flaming Gorge project, also on the 
Upper Colorado. The University of Arizona conducted investigations 
along the Gila River above the Painted Rocks Reservoir area. In 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 91 

California the University of Southern California completed a series of 
investigations at the Casitas Reservoir on Coyote Creek. The Univer- 
sity of California at Los Angeles excavated a site in the Terminus 
Eeservoir area on the Kaweali River. The University of California 
at Berkeley completed its excavations in the Trinity R^ervoir Basin 
on the Trinity River, and San Francisco State College made studies 
at the Wliiskeytown project on the Upper Sacramento River. The 
University of Oregon continued operations in the John Day Reservoir 
in the Columbia River. The University of Washington completed its 
investigations m the Priest Rapids Reservoir area, also in the Columbia 
River, and the State College of Washington continued its excavations 
in the Ice Harbor Reservoir area on the Snake River. A number of 
local groups and institutions continued to assist on a voluntary basis. 
These mainly were in New York State, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, and 
southern California. 

ARCHIVES OF ETHNOLOGY 

The Bureau archives continued during the year under the custody 
of Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker. On June 8 Nicholas S. Hopkins entered 
on duty as a summer intern to assist in arranging and describing 
manuscript collections, and on June 15 Winfield H. Arneson, sum- 
mer intern, entered on duty to assist with photographic collections. 

The use of the manuscript collections by anthropologists and his- 
torical researchers continues to increase. Approximately 329 manu- 
scripts were consulted by 92 visitors to the archives, and an equal 
number were consulted by the archivist in preparing replies to 87 mail 
inquiries concerning the nature and extent of manuscript information 
on specific topics or tribes. There were 22 purchase orders for a total 
of 2,897 pages of manuscript reproductions. In the course of exami- 
nation, new and more detailed descriptions of about 50 manuscripts 
were prepared for the catalog, and a number of descriptive lists of 
manuscripts were prepared for distribution. 

An anonymous English-Arikara vocabulary in a homemade note- 
book of 48 pages, thought to have been recorded ca. 1869-74 by an 
associate or acquaintance of Washington Matthews, was donated by 
Dr. John A. Pope of Washington, D.C. 

Scholars, publishers, and the general public have continued to draw 
heavily on the photographic collections of the Bureau as a source of 
illustration and documentation. There were a total of 504 written 
inquiries, purchase orders, and personal inquiries concerning photo- 
graphs, and 1,208 prints were distributed through purchase, gift, or 
exchange. As in previous years, a number of lists describing photo- 
graphs in the Bureau's collection were prepared for distribution. 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

One hundred such lists relating to specific tribes and subjects are now 
available. 

The Bureau has been fortunate in receiving the cooperation of 
several collectors of photographs that have ethnological and histori- 
cal value. Some of the collectors lent their pictures for copying, 
while others gave their prints to the Bureau, thus insuring their pres- 
ervation and making them available to students. 

An important collection of over 115 negatives of Seminole Indians 
made by Charles Barney Coiy, Sr., in Florida in the period 1877-95 
was lent by Mrs. Zelma Carolyn Cory of Homewood, 111., and 
Charles Barney Cory of Madison, 111., through Alan E. Sawyer of the 
Art Institute of Cliicago. Enlarged prints from these negatives are 
on file for reference at the Bureau. In addition, a group of 28 origi- 
nal and postcard prints by various photographers, collected by 
Charles Barney Cory in Florida and in the West, and relating to the 
Seminole, Shoshoni, Bannock, Paiute, Dakota, and other western 
tribes, was lent by Mr. Sawyer for copying. 

A collection of 65 photographs of Seminole Indians, made by Wil- 
liam D. Boehmer, Dwight R. Gardin, and others, was lent for copying 
by William D. Boelimer, educational field agent, Seminole Indian 
Agency, Okeechobee, Fla. 

A series of 21 negatives, prints, and postcard reproductions relating 
to the Seminole Indians, made and collected by the photographer, 
C. N. Dutton, in the first decade of the 20tli century, was lent for 
copying by Louis Capron, West Palm Beach, Fla., together with 4 
Seminole photographs made by Capron in the 1930's. 

A collection of 115 prints of Indians of the Dakota, Chippewa, 
Winnebago, Paiute, Crow, Apache, and other tribes, made by com- 
mercial photographers in the latter half of the 19th century, was 
donated by G. Hubert Smith of Lincoln, Nebr. In addition, several 
early stereographs of Minnesota Indian subjects were lent by him for 
copying. 

A microfilm of the South Dakota Historical Society's collection of 
about 400 photographic prints relating to Western Indian history and 
Indian wars, along with a transcript of the accompanying caption 
material, was made available to the Bureau, through the courtesy of 
James Tubbesing of Winchester, Va., who made the film. A ref- 
erence set of enlarged prints has been made of about 130 subjects se- 
lected from the series because they supplement or document photo- 
graphs already in the Bureau's collections. 

A series of commercial photographs, including 17 by H. Bueh- 
mann, Tucson, Arizona Territory, relating to the Apache Indians, 
and 9 by J. N. Choate, Carlisle, Pa., showing students at the Indian 
School at Carlisle, was received by transfer from the Department of 
Civil History, Smithsonian Institution. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 93 

A group of commercial photographs of Indians — including six out- 
door scenes made b}'- F. A. Rinehart in 1900, relating to the Crow In- 
dians and showing details of costume and horse gear — was received 
as a gift from Henry G. K. Tyrell of Baltimore, Md., in memory of 
his father, Henry Grattan Tyrell. 

A reference set of 18 photographs of drawings by Charles-Alex- 
andre Lesueur, showing Indians and archeological sites sketched by 
Lesueur in the lower Mississippi Valley in the period 1816-37, was 
purchased from the studio of Victor Genetier in Paris. The original 
drawings are owned by the Museimi of Natural History, Havre, 
France. 

Six portraits of the Creek chief Pleasant Porter, made at various 
dates from 1872 to 1905 and assembled by Ralph W. Goodwin of 
Cambridge, Mass., while writing a biography of the chief, were lent 
by Mr. Goodwin for copying. He also provided biographical and 
other background information on several photographs of Creek In- 
dians in the Bureau collections. 

While examining the collections of Pawnee photographs at the 
Bureau, Stephen G. Gover of Weatherford, Okla., a member of the 
Pawnee tribe, supplied notes on a number of the photographs, in- 
cluding pronunciations and translations of personal names. Mr. 
Gover also lent for copying a photograph of the Pawnee chief, 
Crooked Hand, and another of Dog Chief, son of Crooked Hand. 

With the assistance of Cheyenne informants, Mrs. Margot Liberty 
of Birney, Mont., provided identifications and biographical notes for 
a number of portraits of Cheyenne Indians in the Bureau collections. 
Father Peter Powell of Chicago, 111., also furnished notes of this 
kind. 

The extensive collection of photographs of North American In- 
dians transferred to the Bureau from the Library of Congress last 
year has been sorted and arranged by tribe or area, and is now avail- 
able for reference. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

E. G. Schumacher, staff artist, prepared original illustrations and 
examined and approved or redrew other illustrations for the various 
Bureau publications that were being edited for printing. Among the 
subjects worked on during the year were Kansas archeology and 
archeological investigations in British Guiana, Mohave ethnopsychia- 
try and suicide, historic sites archeology on the Upper Missouri, and 
historic trading posts in North and South Dakota. In addition, a 
variety of scientific and technical art work was completed for other 
branches of the Institution. 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

The Bureau's editorial work continued during the year under the 
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued 
one annual report and four bulletins, as follows : 

Seventy-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1957-1958. 

ii+36 pp., 5 pis. 1959. 
Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods : Modern intertribal organizations on 

the Northwest coast, by Philip Drucker. iv+194 pp. 1958. 
Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 9-14, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
editor, ix+392 pp., 73 pis., 13 figs., 9 maps. 1958. 

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservoir area. North 

Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper. 
No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas, by 

Robert B. Cuuiming, Jr. 
No. 11. The Spain site (39LM301), a winter village in Fort Randall Res- 
ervoir, South Dakota, by Carlyle S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr. 
No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears. 
No. 13. Historic sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area, 

Florida-Georgia, by Mark F. Boyd. 
No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Res- 
ervoir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen. 
Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker, Robert 
F. Heizer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas E. Gullberg, 
Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold, viii-f 312 pp., 63 pis., 82 figs. 1959. 
Bulletin 171. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A study in ecology and society, by 
Robert F. Spencer. vi-f490 pp., 9 pis., 2 figs., 4 maps. 1959. 

Publications distributed totaled 27,721, as compared with 28,131 
for the fiscal year 1958. 

COLLECTIONS 

The following collections were made by staff members of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology or of the River Basin Surveys and trans- 
ferred to the permanent collections of the Department of Anthro- 
pology, U.S. National Museum : 

FROM BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 
Aco. No. 

224347. Archeological materials collected by Ralph S. Solecki, from Marshall 
County, W. Va., during December 1948 and January 1949. 

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

222362. Indian skeletal material from the Lake Spring site, Columbia County, 

Ga., collected by Dr. Joseph R. Caldwell. 
224546. Archeological material collected by Waldo R. Wedel, for the R.B.S., 

B.A.E., from Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County. S. Dak., during 1951. 
224549. Samples of rock, brick, burned-earth, etc., collected by Ralph S. Solecki. 

R.B.S., from Ross County, Ohio, on November 30, 1949. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 95 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring, and Dr. M. W. Stirling 
continued as research associates of the Bureau. Dr. Stirling used 
the facilities of the Bureau laboratory in the preparation of final 
reports on collections made in previous years during field trips to 
Panama and Ecuador. 

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, scientific linguist, joined the staff on April 
3, 1959. In addition to the two summer interns mentioned in the re- 
port of the archivist, the Bureau was fortunate in having the services 
of Norma L. Hackelman, another summer mtern, who assisted with 
the preparation and checking of bibliographies to be included in 
the Bureau's most useful bibliography and information leaflet series. 
Owing to the limited staff and heavy workload, there were issued only 
two new bibliographies and one revised list for distribution to the 
public, as follows: 

SIL-50, 2d rev., 9/58. Selected list of portraits of prominent Indians in the 
collections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 3 pp. 

SIL-174, 12/58. Selected references on the Indians of Southeastern North 
America. ( State index, pp. 12-14 ; musical recordings, p. 14 ; museum ex- 
hibits, pp. 14-16.) 10 pp. 

SID-197, 11/58. Selected bibliography of maps relating to the American Indian. 
4 pp. 

There were 2,759 letters of inquiry about American Indians and 
related problems received in the Director's office alone during the 
year. Information was furnished by staff members in answer to many 
of the queries, and to others, information leaflets or other printed 
items were supplied. In addition to the printed bibliographies and 
information leaflets described above several such items were compiled 
on topics of a general or specific nature and typescript copies sent out 
in answer to the hmidreds of requests for this information. Several 
manuscripts were read and appraised by staff members for colleagues 
and scientific organizations. Numerous specimens were identified for 
owners and data supplied on them. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution, 



Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1959 ; 

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions : the Division 
of Astrophysical Kesearch, for the study of solar and other types of 
energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of Radiation and 
Organisms, for the investigation of radiation as it relates directly 
or indirectly to biological problems. Shops maintained in Washing- 
ton, for work in metals, woods, and optical electronics, prepare spe- 
cial equipment for both divisions, and a shop in Cambridge provides 
high-precision mechanical work. The field station at Table Moun- 
tain, Calif., carries out solar observations. 

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

The research carried on at the Observatory during the past year 
has produced gratifying results in the areas of solar astrophysics, 
upper atmosphere studies, meteoritical studies, and satellite science. 
Some long-term objectives have been reached. The resulting gains in 
knowledge and the development of advanced observational techniques 
have revealed fresh areas of research and established new goals. 

The Observatory has continued to maintain close liaison with Har- 
vard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
and other research centers. This policy confers mutual benefits. 

Solar astrophysics. — At the Table Mountain station Alfred G. Froi- 
land, employing methods recently developed, has made progress in 
his attempts to determine, from the Smithsonian solar spectrobolo- 
grams, the amoimt of atmospheric ozone in a vertical path, both in 
the visible spectral range and in the infrared region. He continues 
his study of the quantity and quality of haze in the atmosphere. The 
availability of a datatron at the California Institute of Technology 
has broadened and simplified the scope of this work. These new 
techniques are expected to lead to a more accurate and consistent 
method of measurement. Already, they have provided evidence for 
the existence of other related effects of energy absorption in the upper 
atmosphere. 

Dr. Max Krook has developed two methods for determining the 
structure of nongray stellar atmospheres. They provide, for the first 

96 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 97 

time, rapidly converging procedures for calculating the structure of 
model atmospheres for hot stars, with given chemical composition, 
effective temperature, and surface gravity. He has formulated a 
method for calculating the structure of shock fronts in completely 
ionized hydrogen and in the presence of magnetic fields. The 
calculations contribute to our understanding of the fundamental 
properties of ionized gases. Procedures veere devised for translating 
a microscopically formulated problem of gas dynamics into an ap- 
proximately equivalent continuum jDroblem. This method applies par- 
ticularly to cases in which the Knudsen number, K^ is not very small. 
Dr. Krook continues to study various problems in the dynamics of 
gases and the kinetic theory of gases. 

Dr. Charles A. Whitney has begun a study of atmospheric structure 
and its correlation with solar activity. This work involves empirical 
analyses of satellite and solar data as they relate to atmospheric 
physics. Dr. Wliitney continued his study of gas dynamics in astro- 
physical contexts, to obtain a numerical solution of the nonadiabatic 
equations of motion for the solar atmosphere. The procedure involves 
integration of the equations of motion for a variety of conditions. 
This is the first critical investigation of the propagation of nonlinear 
and nonadiabatic waves in the solar atmosphere. It will provide a 
basis for the interpretation of high-resolution photographs of the 
solar disk obtained by balloon-mounted telescopes. A comparison 
between the adiabatic and nonadiabatic equations will have a direct 
bearing on the theory of stellar chromospheres. A program to pro- 
vide a firm basis for the theory of stellar pulsation was initiated by 
Dr. Whitney in 1955. This fundamental problem of classical astro- 
physics requires a variety of procedures, primarily theoretical. With 
the help of Dr. John Cox, the development of machine methods for 
the solution of pertinent equations has made considerable progress. 
Upper atrnospliere. — Dr. Jacchia's research on the secular accelera- 
tion of artificial satellites enabled him to establish marked transient 
effects on the acceleration of Satellite 1958 Delta One, wliich coincided 
with the great magnetic storms of July and September 1958. Dr. 
Jacchia's study established that these variations in acceleration were 
not due to solar electromagnetic radiation but to solar corpuscular 
radiation. This novel result is of outstanding significance in the field 
of solar-terrestrial relationships. 

Studying the orbital accelerations of Satellites 1958 Beta Two and 
1958 Delta Two, Dr. Jacchia found that they show semiregular fluctua- 
tions with an average period of 29 days. Further study suggested 
that a semiperiodic variation in the solar radiation with ^o, synodic 
period of rotation of the sun, 27 days, seemed a more probable cycle. 
Dr. Theodore E. Sterne completed a study of the inferential 



98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1950 

methods used in evaluating observational data. He developed 
new methods, based on cellestial mechanics, for inferring the 
density of the upper atmosphere from the motions of artificial 
satellites, and derived a value much higher than previous estimates. 
At an altitude of 220 km the density was f omid to be about 4.0 X 10"" 
gm/cm *, and at 368 km the value was about 1.4 X 10"^* gm/cm. These 
methods for developing satellite data have particular importance be- 
cause the satellites provide our only reliable source of information 
about the upper atmosphere. This knowledge, in turn, will augment 
our imderstanding of solar-terrestrial relationships. Dr. Sterne has 
also studied the theories and the types of reasoning involved in 
cosmology, to evaluate the probable reliability of our knowledge of 
the universe and its origin, and to compare the relative merits of 
various observational approaches. 

Dr. J. Allen Hynek and George J. Neilson began a series of balloon 
experiments in cooperation with Col. David G. Simons of the Aero 
Medical Field Laboratory at Holloman Air Force Base, the Winzen 
Laboratories of Minneapolis, and the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology Instrumentation Laboratories. This program will deter- 
mine the feasibility of using a stabilized platform system in balloons 
designed for high-altitude observations. Two types of experiments 
are planned: (1) Unmanned balloons will carry a radio-controlled 
stabilization system for stellar observations made at altitudes up to 
50,000 feet. (2) Manned balloons will carry a different type of stabili- 
zation system, controlled by an observer and a navigator (U.S. Air 
Force pilot) riding in the balloon gondola. They will attempt to 
make stellar observations at altitudes up to 85,000 feet, and, eventually, 
from beyond the earth's atmosphere. Both stabilization systems have 
now been developed and built by the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology Instrumentation Laboratories. Preliminary tests and prepara- 
tions have been made. Two observers, Mr. Neilson and William 
"White, have been checked for physical fitness for flights up to 80,000 
feet. The first launching of the unmanned balloon has been fixed for 
the fall of 1959. 

The Director and Eobert J. Davis completed the design of a tele- 
scope for use in space. The instrument will include an optical system, 
a detecting device, circuits to amplify and modify the output signal 
of the detectmg device, and the auxiliary circuits necessary to protect 
the instrument from the effects of direct sunlight. Fitted into a socket 
in a "stable platform" within a satellite, the telescope will obtain 
important astrophysical data. The chief goals at present include an 
ultraviolet survey of the sky in three wavelength regions, and spec- 
troscopic studies of particular celestial objects. Completion of the 
project will require about 3 years. 



SECRETAEY'S REPORT 99 

Meteoritical studies. — Research in meteoritics has provided inval- 
uable information on the relation between meteors and comets, and 
the origin of comets. The Director's analyses of data, based on his 
Icy Comet theory, have yielded more information on the nature 
and origin of comets, and possibly the origin of the solar syst-em. 
Recent studies of micrometeorites in the earth's atmosphere indicate 
that heavier elements, of the meteoritic category, condensed early in 
the original gases responsible for the formation of the cometary 
system and probably the planets. 

An electron probe microanalyzer, designed and developed by Dr. F. 
Behn Riggs, Jr., with Dr. Andrew R. Lang as consultant, for the 
study of meteorites, is expected to be in full operation in the fall. 
Electron probe microanalysis is one of the newest methods for chemical 
analysis. In addition to it^ use for point-to-point analysis of the 
metallic constituents of iron meteorites, the microanalyzer vnll permit 
study of the gross distribution of element-s across the surface of a 
sectioned meteorite measuring up to ten inches across. The distribu- 
tion of elements cannot be measured on such a scale by any other 
method. 

The Director, Dr. Fireman, Dr. Frances W. Wright, Paul W. 
Hodge, Hai Chin Rhee, Kenneth Covey, and Adolph Esposito con- 
tinued the program of collection and identification of micrometeoritic 
dust. Collections of atmospheric particulate matter were made by 
high-flying jet aircraft. A collector mounted on a B-52 by the 
Boeing Aircraft Co. and flown by them has provided 19 exposed 
filters usable for analysis. The filters have been examined optically 
under a high-powered microscope and particles of various descrip- 
tions have been identified and counted. Those particles which might 
be meteoritic have been listed for analysis; some have been used for 
chemical analysis ; and the rest will be used in a general analysis of 
contamination problems. The analysis of micrometeoritic dust in- 
dicates that these particles are magnetic and have more or less normal 
densities; tests for copper and nickel by neutron activation revealed 
that the sensitivity for copper was somewhat better than the value 
0.1 percent for lO/i* particles. The Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology reactor and the counting equipment of the Observatory labo- 
ratory were used for the experiment. The development of new and 
improved types of dust collectors for high-altitude aircraft is a 
continuing part of this program. The most recent development is a 
cylindrical impactor. 

Dr. John Wood has investigated the various types of silicate me- 
teorites, particularly of chondrites. Analysis of thin sections of 
chondrites in polarized light with the petrographic microscope has 
shown that the petrographic characteristics of these meteorites do not 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

appear to support the existence of primary bodies which antedated 
the parent meteorite planets. 

Under the supervision of Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, the precise reduction 
and analysis of photographic meteor trails have shown that practically 
all the visual meteors are cometary in origin; fewer than 1 percent 
are interstellar in origin, and the contribution from asteroidal sources 
is probably not much greater. 

Under the supervision of the Director, Eobert Briggs is studying 
the distribution of interplanetary dust particles to measure the num- 
ber of particles in various parts of the solar system. 

Dr. Fireman completed measurements of helium 3 in the Grant, 
N. Mex., meteorite and has determined its original mass (E. L. Fire- 
man, Planetary and Space Science, vol. 1, pp 66-70, 1959). The 
helium 3 contents ranged from 6.5X10-« cmVg to 5.1 X 10-" cmVg- 
The Grant meteorite apparently was a pear-shaped object in space, 
with a mass of approximately 880 kg; its loss of mass during its 
plunge through the earth's atmosphere was approximately 400 kg. 
Dr. Fireman continued his measurement of the tritium, helium 3, and 
argon 39 in three stone and seven iron meteorites (E. L. Fireman and 
J. De Felice, Astron. Journ. vol. 64, p. 127, 1959; also Geochim. et 
Cosmochim. Acta, in press). The argon-exposure age of these me- 
teorites ranges from 10 ^ years to 6 X 10 ' years. This exposure age 
has been interpreted in terms of space erosion (F. L. Wliipple and 
E. L. Fireman, Nature, vol. 183, p. 1315, 1959) and leads to the value 
1.5 XIO"'' cm/year, for the upper limit of total erosion on an iron 
surface in space. 

Satellite-tracking program. — The network of 12 satellite-tracking 
stations, under the supervision of Dr. Hynek, has gathered photo- 
graphic data on the positions of artificial satellites. These data have 
allowed precision determination of the orbits of satellites smd have 
thus provided geophysical and geodetic information. Seven objects 
were tracked. A total of 2,902 successful observations and more than 
6,000 photographs were obtained. Engineering studies were begun 
to improve both the Baker-Nunn camera and the timing system, to 
refine the photography of orbiting objects. The stations were manned 
by 38 observers. 

The Baker-Nunn camera has produced results of inestimable scien- 
tific value. The cameras are able to photograph stars to magnitude 
12.0 with an ejffective exposure time of 1 second. Tracking accuracy 
ranges between 1 percent and 5 percent. The ultimate limiting magni- 
tude, established principally by the time required to record appreciable 
skyfog, is about 16.0. The Baker-Nunn cameras secured photographs 
of the Vanguard experimental sphere, 1958 Beta Two, at ranges beyond 
2,400 miles. These cameras also obtained photographs of the carrier 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 101 

rocket of the Vanguard sphere, 1958 Beta One. This tracking system 
has demonstrated its ability to acquire as many as three photographs 
of satellites per day over a long period of time, in spite of bad weather 
and mechanical breakdowns. This rate of photography exceeds the 
original expectation by about 50 percent. 

The Moonwatch program, under the supervision of Leon Campbell, 
Jr., depends on 218 teams comprising 5,000 volunteer observers, in the 
United States and abroad. Worldwide interest in the program con- 
tinues, as evidenced by requests for affiliation from groups in North 
and South America, Africa, England, Spain, and the Middle East. 
Since the program began, Moonwatch has communicated 9,825 observa- 
tions to the Cambridge headquarters. Arthur S. Leonard, leader of 
the Sacramento, Calif., team obtained improved values for the orbital 
elements of Satellite 1958 Beta One, which was believed "lost." These 
values led to the recovery of the satellite, which was then photographed 
by the Smithsonian camera stations. 

These unprecedented accomplishments of the satellite-tracking pro- 
grams prompted the executive director of the International Geophysi- 
cal Year to congratulate the Director of the Observatory and his staff, 
on behalf of the U.S. National Committee and the Earth Satellite 
Panel. 

The computation and analysis of optical observations continued 
under the supervision of Kichard Adams as chief and Dr. Wliitney as 
scientific supervisor. Eefinements of techniques and programing 
methods have yielded gratifying results. 

The Cunningham integi'ation methods for the machine programing 
of satellite orbits, together with Dr. Don A. Lautman's equations for 
the osculating elements, have greatly facilitated the handling of satel- 
lite data ajid the graphing of perturbations of the orbital elements. 
A limited variety of orbits can be studied at present; for an orbit 
similar to that of Satellite 1957 Alpha the methods show separately the 
perturbational effects of drag and of the earth's oblateness. 

Drs. Jacchia and Kozai derived new values for the second and fourth 
order coefficients of the earth's gravitational potential. 

Dr. George Veis has initiated a differential corrections program 
which is being used to revise the orbits of Satellite 1958 Alpha and 
to obtain accurate elements for all satellites, in particular for 1959 
Alpha One and 1959 Beta One. This program has also produced 
an ephemeris for 1958 Delta Two, during the period September 1958 
to May 1959. 

""Jack Slowey has developed a program which makes it possible for 
the Baker-Nunn cameras to photograph satellites successfully over a 
long arc. The preliminary results have yielded much valuable in- 
formation, and the Slowey Long- Arc Ephemeris will greatly increase 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1969 

the flexibility and area of accomplishment of the camera stations. 

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai has developed a theory of orbit perturbations 
including effects due to the sun and the moon. The use of this theory 
has yielded three coefficients of the earth's gravitational potential. 

Dr. Sterne advanced a general, analytical theory of the motions of 
satellites, which makes allowance for air resistance and the earth's 
equatorial bulge, leading to improved understanding of the shape of 
the earth. 

Dr. "Wliitney, in cooperation with the Army Ballistic Missile 
Agency, is working on a program to derive the orientation of satel- 
lites from observations of the strength of radio emission. His study 
of the periodic effects of atmospheric drag on a satellite orbit is of 
basic importance to the tracking program. 

Dr. Veis is preparing a star catalog in the form of punched cards. 
This catalog will have particular value in photo reduction. 

George G. Barton and Richard S. Aikens are developing a program 
of electronic image conversion whereby artificial earth satellites may 
be tracked by photoelectric methods. This program will facilitate 
visual observation of orbiting objects. 

The number of observations processed by the Computation and 
Analysis Center totals 43,752 ; predictions sent to optical tracking sta- 
tions number 12,825. 

A program has begun for the reduction of photograpliic observa- 
tions of satellites by the tracking stations. Under the supervision of 
Dr. Karoly Lassovszky, two methods are employed: (1) The astro- 
metric method allows the computation of the exact orbits of the 
satellites and the derivation of important data relating to the distri- 
bution of mass inside the earth, the form of the earth, the true value 
of distances on the surface of the earth, and the variation in density 
in the atmosphere. (2) The photometric analysis method makes it 
possible to study the tumbling of the satellites, the secular changes of 
brightness of satellites, and the deterioration of their surfaces by 
meteoritic pitting and cosmic rays. 

Two types of measuring engines have been evaluated: the Van 
Biesbroeck goniometer and the two-screw Mann engine. The system 
best suited to our needs has proved to be the Mann engine. A work 
rate study has shown that it will be necessary to operate at least five 
Mann engines for 8 hours a day, in order to reduce the most significant 
data flowing in from the camera tracking stations. A staff of 30 to 
50 persons will be required to operate these five measuring systems. 

To date, of the 5,981 films received, 62 percent were successful. 
Examination of the successful films reveals that 36 percent are 
measurable. About 500 precisely determined positions are ready for 
publication, although the precise time data have yet to be obtained 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 103 

in some cases. The determination of the phototime expressed in 
terms of atomic time is now in progress. 

For a program involving the measurement of the earth's albedo, 
observations have been made of the brightness of the earthshine on 
the dark part of the moon's crescent disk. These data will make it 
possible to evaluate the percent of clear and of cloudy parts of the 
atmosphere which contribute to earthshine. 

Under the supervision of Charles A. Peterson, the Communications 
Center's activity has increased proportionately with the number of 
objexjts launched. An average of 539,057 words per month is cleared 
through the center; most of these words (groups of five numerals or 
letters) represent satellite information received or sent throughout 
the world. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Numbers 1 to 5 of volume 3, Smithsonian Contributions to Astro- 
physics, were published during the year. The following papers by 
staff members of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various 
journals: 

Davis, R. J., McCrosky, R. E., Whipple, F. L., and Whitney, C. A. A plan for 
operating an astronomical telescope in an earth satellite. Astron. Journ., 
vol. 64, p. 50, 1959. 

Davis, R. J., Whipple, F. L., and Whitney, C. A. An astronomical telescope In 
space. Astronaut. Sci. Rev., vol. 1, p. 9 et seq., 1959. 

FiEEMAN, B. L. The distribution of helium-3 in the Grant meteorite and a de- 
termination of the original mass. Planetary and Space Sci., vol. 1, pp. 66-70, 
1959. 

FiEEMAN, E. L., and De Felice, J. Argon-39 and tritium in meteorites. Astron. 
Journ., vol. 64, p. 127, 1959. 

Hawkins, G. S., and Whipple, F. L. The width of meteor trails. Astron. 
Journ., vol. 63, pp. 283-291, 1958. 

Henize, K. G. a new planetary nebula NGC 6164-65 (Cederblad 135a, b). 
Astron. Journ., vol. 64, pp. 51-52, 1959. 

Hynek, J. A., Henize, K. G., and Whipple, F. L. Report on the precision opti- 
cal tracking program for artificial earth satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 64, 
p. 52, 1959. 

Jacchia, L. G. The final moments of Sputnik II. Sky and Telescope, vol. 17, pp. 
561-562, 1958. 

. Two atmospheric effects in the orbital acceleration of artificial satel- 
lites. Nature, vol. 183, pp. 526-527, 1959. 

. Corpuscular radiation and the acceleration of artificial satellites. Na- 



ture, vol. 183, p. 1662, 1959. 
Krook, M. Structure of stellar atmospheres II. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 129, 

pp. 724-733, 1959. 
. Structure of shock fronts in ionized gases. Ann. Phys., vol. 6, pp. 188- 

207, 1959. 
Kbook, M., and Pecker, J. C. Sur le calcul de modules d'atmosphfire en 

^quilibre radiatif (cas non-gris). Comptes Rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, vol. 

247, pp. 1177-1179, 1958. 
536608—60 8 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

RiNEHAKT, J. S. Meteorites, satellites, and ceramics. Bull. Amer. Ceramic Soc, 

vol. 37, pp. 461^67, 1958. 
. Impact effects and tektites. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 14, pp. 

287-290, 1958. 
Schilling, G. F., and Sterne, T. E. Densities and temperatures of the upper 

atmosphere inferred from satellite observations. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 

64, pp. 1-4, 1959. 
Schilling, G. F., and Whitney, C. A. Derivation and analysis of atmospheric 

density from observations of SateUlte 1958 Bpsilon. Planetary and Space 

Sci., vol. 1, pp. 136-145, 1959. 
Sterne, T. E. The gravitational orbit of a satellite of an oblate planet. Astron. 

Joum., vol. 63, pp. 29-40, 1958. 

. Density of the upper atmosphere. Science, vol. 128, p. 420, 1958. 

. The effect of the rotation of a planetary atmosphere upon the orbit of 

a close satellite. Astron. Journ., vol. 64, p. 64, 1959. 

Note on R. R. Newton's paper, "Motion of a Satellite Around an Un- 



symmetrical Central Body." Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 30, p. 270, 1959. 
Sterne, T. E., and Dieter, N. The constancy of the solar constant. Smithsonian 

Contr. Astrophys., vol. 3, pp. 9-21, 1958. 
Whipple, F. L. The coming exploration of space. Saturday Evening Post, 

August 16, 1958. 
. Optical tracking of artificial satellites. Science, vol. 128, pp. 124-129, 

1958. 
. Notes on comets, meteors, and planetiiry evolution. Publ. Astron. Soc. 

Pacific, vol. 70, pp. 485-488, 1958. 

. Man into space. In "Vistas in AstronauUcs," vol. 2, pp. 145-147, Per- 

gamon Press, 1959. 

On the lunar dust layer. In "Vistas in Astronautics," vol. 2, pp. 267- 



272, Pergamon Press, 1959. 
Whipple, F. L., and Fireman, E. L. Calculation of erosion in space from the 

cosmic-ray exposure age of meteorites. Nature, vol. 183, p. 1315, 1959. 
Whipple, F. L., and Hawkins, G. S. Meteors. In Handbuch der Physik, vol. 

52, pp. 519-564. Springer- Verlag, 1959. 
Whipple, F. L., and Hynek, J. A. The IGY satellite tracking program as a 

source of geodetic information. Ann. Geophys., vol. 14, pp. 326-328, 1958. 
. The IGY optical satellite tracking program as a source of geodetic 

information. Bull. Geod., No. 49, pp. 50-52, 1958. 
The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory continue to 
present the results of analyses of satellite data carried out by various 
staff niembei-s. The demand has grown so that at present more than 
1,500 individual scientists and research institutions regularly receive 
them. Special Reports Nos. 14-27, issued during the year, contain 
the following papers : 
Adams, R. M., Briggs, R. E., and Upton, E. K. L. Positions of Satellite 1957 

Beta One during the first 100 revolutions. Spec. Rep. No. 16, pp. 1-22, 

July 25, 1958. 
Albert, R. G., and Adams, R. M. Catalogue of satellite observations for Janu- 
ary and February, 1959. Spec. Rep. No. 24, pp. 1-47, Apr. 9, 1959. 
, Catalogue of satellite observations for March and April 1959, Spec. 

Rep. No. 26, pp. 1-51, May 21, 1959. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 105 

Bbiggs, R. B., and Slowey, J. W. An iterative method of orbit determination 

from three observations of a nearby satellite. Spec. Kep. No. 27, pp. 1-8, 

June 30, 1959. 
BuLUS, B. P. Moonwatch catalogue, October, November, and December, 1958. 

Spec. Rep. No. 21, pp. 13-36, Feb. 27, 1959. 
BuLLis, E. P., and Campbell, L., Jr. Moonwatch catalogue, May through June, 

1958. Spec. Rep. No. 14, pp. 1-21, July 15, 1958. 
. Moonwatch catalogue, July and August, 1958. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 

23-44, Oct. 4, 1958. 
. Moonwatch catalogue, September 1958. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 19-46, 



Jan. 5, 1959. 
Claeke, J. B. Technical parameters of Satellites 1958 Delta and 1958 Epsilon. 

Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 3-1, Oct. 4, 1958. 
Davis, R. J. Timing satellite observations. Spec. Rep. No. 14, pp. 26-31, 

July 15, 1958. 
. Progress report on the planning of an artificial satellite containing an 

astronomical telescope. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 9-12, Jan. 5, 1959. 
Hawkins, G. S. A satellite meteor trap. Spec. Rep. No. 19, pp. 6-8, Dec. 6, 

1958. 
Henize, K. G. Status of the photographic satellite tracking system. Spec. Rep. 

No. 14, pp. 22-25, July 15, 1958. 
JACCHIA, L. G. The descent of Satellite 1957 Beta One. Spec. Rep. No. 15, 

pp. 1-13, July 20, 1958. 
. The earth's gravitational potential as derived from Satellites 1957 

Beta One and 1958 Beta Two. Spec. Rep. No. 19, pp. 1-5, Dec. 6, 1958. 
. An empirical formula for satellite ephemerides near the end of their 

lifetime. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 1-4, Jan. 5, 1959. 
. The diurnal effect In the orbital acceleration of Satellite 1957 Beta 



One. Spec. Bep. No. 20, pp. 5-8, Jan. 5, 1959. 

Jacchia, L. G., and Bbiggs, R. E. Orbital acceleration of Satellite 1958 Beta 
Two. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. ^12, Oct. 4, 1958. 

KozAi, Y. The earth's gravitational potential derived from the motion of Satel- 
Ute 1958 Beta Two. Spec. Rep. No. 22, pp. 1-6, Mar. 20, 1959. 

. On the effects of the sun and the moon upon the motion of a close 

earth satellite. Spec. Rep. No. 22, pp. 7-10, Mar. 20, 1959. 

Leonard, A. S. Determination of the orbit of Satellite 1958 Beta One. Spec. 
Rep. No. 27, pp. 9-15, June 30, 1959. 

McCbosky, R. E. a suggested rocket experiment for determination of atmos- 
pheric densities and winda at extreme heights. Spec. Rep. No. 20, pp. 13-16, 
Jan. 5, 1959. 

Peterson, 0. M. Communications center of the optical satellite tracking pro- 
gram. Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 5-8, Oct. 4, 1958. 

Schilling, G. F., and Whitney, C. A. Atmospheric densities from Explorer IV. 
Spec. Rep. No. 18, pp. 13-22, Oct. 4, 1958. 

Schilling, G. P., Whitney, O. A., and Folkabt, B. M. Preliminary note on 
the mass-area ratios of Satellites 1958 Delta One and 1958 Delta Two. 
Spec. Rep. No. 14, pp. 32-34, July 15, 1958. 

Teske, R. G. Positions of Satellite 1958 Alpha during the first 1,400 revolu- 
tions. Spec. Rep. No. 17, pp. 1-173, Sept. 5, 1958. 

Veis, G. The orbit of Satellite 1958 Zeta. Spec. Rep. No. 23, pp. 1-80, Mar. 
30, 1959. 



106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Whitney, C. A. The structure of the high atmosphere. I. Linear models. 

Spec. Rep. No. 21, pp. 1-12, Feb. 27, 1959. 
. The structure of the high atmosi^here. II. A conduction model. Spec. 

Rep. No. 25, pp. 1-6, Apr. 20, 1959. 
Whitney, C. A., and Veis, G. A flashing satellite for geodetic studies. Spec. 

Rep. No. 19, pp. 9-19, Dec. 6, 1958. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

The Director, Dr. Jacchia, and Dr. Hynek attended meetings and 
participated in discussions of the 10th General Assembly of the Inter- 
national Astronomical Union in Moscow, August 1958. They visited 
various scientific institutions in the USSR. The Director presided at 
a symposium on astronomy from balloons, rockets, and satellites. 

The Director, Dr. Jacchia, and Dr. Hynek participated in the dis- 
cussions of the Fifth Congress of the Comite Special de I'Annee Geo- 
physique Internationale (CSAGI) in Moscow. Dr. Jacchia pre- 
sented his study of the descent of Satellite 1957 Beta One, and served 
on the subcommittees for Rockets and Satellites and for Ionospheric 
Research. 

The Director attended the Ninth Congress of the International 
Astronautical Federation for 1958, in Amsterdam. 

Dr. Riggs attended the meeting of the Meteoritical Society held at 
Winslow, Ariz., and at the nearby Barringer Crater. 

Mr. Davis participated in the meetings of the Optical Society of 
America, October 1958. 

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling participated in the Conferences on Satel- 
lite Launching at the National Academy of Sciences and at the Pen- 
tagon, October 1958. 

A Conference on Contemporary Geodesy was held in December 1958 
under the sponsorship of the American Geophysical Union m coopera- 
tion with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard 
College Observatory. The Director and various members of the staff 
participated in the discussions. 

Dr. Fireman gave a lecture, "Sampling the Solar System for Iso- 
topes," in February 1959, at the American Museum of Natural His- 
tory, New York. 

Dr. Whitney presented papers, by invitation, to the American 
Meteorological Society, in Chicago, 111. ; to the American Rocket Soci- 
ety, in Cambridge, Mass.; and at a symposium held by the Rand 
Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif., in the spring of 1959. 

The Director took part in a Space Symposium sponsored by the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the American 
Physical Society in April 1959. 

Dr. Fireman attended a Conference on Meteors at the Karlinka In- 
stitute, Stockholm, Sweden, June 1959. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 107 

Dr. "VVliitney participated in the discussions of the International 
Conference of Information Processing of the UNESCO, in Paris. 
He also presented a paper at the Ninth International Colloquium of 
the Institut d'Astrophysique, in Liege, Belgium, June 1959. 

Dr. Ilynek and Mr. Neilson made preparations for carrying out 
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's expedition to Spain, 
to observe the occultation of the star Regulus by the planet Venus. 

Members of the staff attended meetings and presented papers before 
the American Astronomical Society, the American Physical Society, 
the American Geophysical Union, the National Telemetering Con- 
ference, the American Meteorological Society, the Department of 
Defense, the International Association of Geodesy, the American As- 
tronautical Society, the American Society of Photogrammetry, the 
Mellon Institute, and the American Philosophical Society. 

Every member of the scientific staff has given lectures at schools, 
colleges, civic groups, and military organization assemblies on the 
subject of satellites and space science. 

A conference of the chiefs of satellite tracking stations was held on 
June 15-29, 1959, at the training station in Las Cruces, N. Mex,, at 
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., and at the Observa- 
tory in Cambridge. This conference, which provided the first oppor- 
tunity for the chief observers to discuss particular problems related 
to the operation of tracking stations, proved of great benefit to all 
who attended. 

The Director was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 
April 1959. He served as consultant to the U.S. Office of Naval Re- 
search, to the U.S. Air Weather Service on problems related to the 
space age, and to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
He is chairman of the Technical Panel on Rocketry and member of 
the Teclinical Panel of the Earth Satellite Program of the Interna- 
tional Geophysical Year ; chairman of the Panel on the Atmosphere 
of the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Air Force; president 
of Commission 22, Meteors, Zodiacal Light, and Analogous Problems, 
of the International Astronomical Union ; member of the U.S. Rocket 
and Satellite Research Panel; member of the Committee on 
Meteorology of the National Academy of Sciences, National Research 
Council; member of Upper Atmosphere Committee in the Meteor- 
ology Section of the American Geophysical Union; member of the 
Committee on Cosmic and Terrestrial Relationships of the American 
Geophysical Union; member of the Committee on Atmospheric Sci- 
ences of the National Academy of Sciences, National Research Coun- 
cil ; member of the Panel on Chemistry of Space and Exploration of 
Moon and Planets of the National Academy of Sciences, National 
Research Council Committee on Bio- Astronautics ; member of Space 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1969 

Sciences Working Group on Orbiting Astronomical Observatories, 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration; and member of 
Physics of the Atmosphere and Space Committee, American Rocket 
Society. 

The Director is general editor of the Smithsonian Contributions 
to Astropliysics ; and of the international publication Planetary and 
Space Physics. 

CHANGES IN STAFF 

Dr. Jolin S. Rinehart accepted a professorship at the Colorado 
School of Mines, Golden, Colo. He left the Observatory during the 
summer of 1958. 

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling resigned from the Observatory upon 
his appointment as Chief, Astronomy and Astrophysics, National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, March 1959. 

Richard M. Adams, who had been on leave from Texas A. & M. 
College, resumed his duties there in June 1959. 

As of June 30, 1959, there were 179 persons employed at the 
Observatory. 

BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT 

The Astrophysical Observatory occupies space in five separate 
buildings. Plans for the erection of a new building on the grounds 
of the Harvard College Observatory have been approved; construc- 
tion is expected to begin during the fall of 1959. 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 

The Division has been engaged in research into the biochemistry and 
biophysics of the photomorphogenic mechanism in plants as controlled 
by radiant energy. In general, the red portion of the spectrum induces 
growth reactions that can be nullified by subsequent exposure to the 
far-red part of the spectrum. 

Normal green sunflower seedlings produce large quantities of chlo- 
rophyll when grown in red or blue light, while, under the same condi- 
tions, mutant yellow or white seedlings lose their ability to synthesize 
protochlorophyll and chlorophyll. Although some chlorophyll is 
fonned initially in these mutants, it is destroyed mider continued 
exposure to light. Investigation of the photomorphogenic mechanism 
as measured by hypocotyl inhibition indicated that the response was 
the same in yellow mutants and normal green seedlings, but 50 percent 
greater in the white mutants. The inference is that the yellow pig- 
ments may be active in a protective function. 

Studies are continuing on the biochemical changes that occur during 
the development of the chloroplasts of higher plants. It has been 
shown in our laboratory that excised leaves of dark-grown seedlings, 
when incubated on water and in the dark for 18 hours, lose one-half 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 109 

of their protochlorophyllide synthesizing ability. Adding certain 
carbohydrates at optimal concentration or leaving one cotyledon 
attached prevented the loss of synthesizing ability. When sucrose was 
supplied as a substrate, the determination of carbohydrates within the 
leaves revealed a marked increase in reducing sugars and starch, indi- 
cating a rapid utilization of the products of phosphorolysis of sucrose. 

Determination of the specificity of carbohydrates causing a stimula- 
tion of pigment synthesis and of their rates of metabolic utilization re- 
vealed that, of a dozen or more sugars varying from 3 to 18 carbon 
atoms, glucose at a concentration of 0.20 to 0.25 mole was most effective. 
This was found both thi'ough direct measurement of protochlorophyl- 
lide synthesis and by manometric measurements of respiration on tis- 
sues supplied with various carbohydrates. Technics are being 
developed for the isolation of proplastids and the measurement of 
their subsequent photomorphogenic development into mature 
chloroplasts. 

During the course of our investigation of light-induced develop- 
mental changes in plants, one of our reported observations was that 
the lag phase in chlorophyll synthesis in etiolated bean leaf tissue could 
be eliminated by pretreating the leaves with low irradiances of mono- 
chromatic red or blue energy. The study of the lag phase of chloro- 
phyll synthesis has been continued, and it has been demonstrated that 
X-irradiation of 5-10 kiloroentgens can increase the lag phase in 
etiolated bean leaves. Subsequent exposure to 10 minutes of white 
light initiated recovery of the chlorophyll synthesizing mechanism. 
Experiments are in progress to ascertain whether the recovery is a red- 
or blue-sensitive reaction and whether nonionizing radiation can coun- 
teract the effect of ionizing radiation in chlorophyll synthesis. 

Kadiant energy in the spectral region of 710 to 820 m/* significantly 
increases the frequency of chromosomal aberrations when used as a 
supplement to X-irradiation. Biochemical studies are being pursued 
to investigate the mechanism of the effect of far-red (710-820 m/t) on 
the rejoining of chromosomes. 

Three new members of the research staff of the Division are : Dr. 
Edward C. Sisler, biochemist; Dr. Walter A. Shropshire, Jr., bio- 
physicist; and Dr. Maurice M, Margulies, biochemist. Dr. Sisler 
comes to the Smithsonian Institution from Brookliaven National Lab- 
oratory where he was engaged in photosynthesis studies. Dr. Shrop- 
shire returns to the Division from the California Institute of Tech- 
nology, where he worked on action and transmission spectra. Dr. 
Margulies was formerly at Johns Hopkins University, where he was 
investigating photosynthesis and the biochemistry of micro- 
organisms. 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1969 

In November 1958, the Research Corporation of New York granted 
funds to the Division for the installation of a radioisotopes laboratory 
and for construction of greenliouse facilities and control rooms. The 
installation of the radioisotopes laboratory is well underway, and 
it should be in operation in the near future. Tlie greenhouse is ex- 
pected to be completed by the fall of 1959. 

PUBUCATIONS 

MOH C. C, and Withkow, R. B. Nonionizing radiant energy as an agent in 
altering the incidence of X-ray-induced cliromatid aberrations. II. Reversal 
of the far-red potentiating effect in Vicia by red radiant energy. Radiation 
Res., vol. 10, pp. 13-19, 1959. 

Shbopbhirk, Waltbib A., Jb., and Withrow, Robert B. Action spectrum of 
phototroplc tip-curvature of Avena. Plant Phyglol., voL S3, pp. 360-365, 
195a 

WriHROw, Robert B., and Kxein, W. H. Action spectra and kinetics of photo- 
morphogenesis. Atti del 2* Congresso Internazionale di Fotoblologia. 
Edizioni Minerva Medica, pp. 443-451. Torino, Italia (1958). 

Respectfully submitted. 

F. L. Whipple, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Cakmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Collection of 
Fine Arts 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June 
30,1959: 

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The 86th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was 
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday, 
December 2, 1958. Members present were Paul Manship, chainnan; 
Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman ; Leonard Carmichael, secretary ; 
Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Walter Hancock, Bartlett Hayes, 
Henry P. Mcllhenny, Ogden M. Pleissner, Charles Sawyer, Stow 
Wengenroth, and Andrew Wyeth. Thomas M. Beggs, Director, Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts, was also present. 

A resolution on the death of George Hewitt Myers, a member of the 
Commission from 1944 until his death on December 23, 1957, was 
unanimously adopted. 

Dr. Finley, chairman, reported for the executive committee that, as 
a result of balloting by mail, the Commission recommended Wilmarth 
S. Lewis to fill the vacancy caused by the death of George Hewitt 
Myers. 

The Commission recommended reappointment of Gilmore D. Clarke, 
Stow Wengenroth, and Andrew Wyeth for the usual 4-year period. 

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul 
Manship, chairman ; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman ; and Leonard 
Carmichael, secretary. 

The following were reelected members of the executive committee 
for the ensuing year : David E. Finley, chairman ; Robert Woods Bliss, 
Gilmore D. Clarke, and Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship and 
Leonard Carmichael, ex officio. 

A motion was passed that the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
be asked to appoint a committee to advise in the development of plans 
for adapting the Civil Service Commission Building, formerly the 
Old Patent Office Building, to the needs of a National Portrait Gal- 
lery, and to prepare legislation concerning such. 

It was further resolved that the chairman of the Smithsonian Art 
Commission shall appoint from its membership a subcommittee, includ- 

111 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

ing three artist members, two musemn director members, and the Direc- 
tor of the National Collection of Fine Arts, to advise in the develop- 
ment of plans for the housing of the National Collection of Fine Arts 
in the Old Patent Office Building. 

Mr. Beggs pointed out that during the past year preservation activi- 
ties, temporary and traveling exhibitions, and information services 
have greatly increased, with no concomitant additions to the adminis- 
trative staff. 

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects : 

Bronze, Dr. John Dewey, by Alexander Portnoff (1887-1949), for the National 
Portrait Gallery. Gift of Mrs. Alexander PortuofE. 

Bronze plaque, Paul Way land Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925), by John rianagan, 
N.A. (1865-1952) . Gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr. 

Eighteen bronzes and four medallions by Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865- 
1925) . Gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr. 

Bronzes: Walter Griffin (1861-1935); Lafayette; Head of a Girl; Seated 
Torso ; Standing Torso ; Male Figure From Fountain ; Male Figure From Foun- 
tain ; Poetry ; Philosophy ; Rabbit ; Rabbit ; Eagle ; Baby Robin ; Cat ; Pup ; Goat ; 
Lion; Two Teams of Horses. Medallions: Walt Whitman (1819-92) ; Woman 
Knitting ; Georges Corneau ; Primavera. 

Oil, Fisherboys at Provincetown, by Charles Webster Hawthorne, N.A. (1872- 
1930). Gift of Walter Bachrach. 

Oil, House in the Valley of Wyoming, by Henry Boese (1824-?). Gift of 
Cornelia Hill. 

Oil, Paul Wayland Bartlett, N.A. (1865-1925), by Charles Sprague Pearce, 
A.N.A. (1851-1914), for the National Portrait Gallery. Gift of Mrs. Armistead 
Peter, Jr. 

Three watercolors, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone ; Canyon of the Yel- 
lowstone; and River-Pinnacle, by Thomas Moran, N.A. (1837-1926). Gift of 
Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr. 

Watercolor on ivory, A. Laurason, by Jean Francois Vallee (fl. 1785-1815). 
Gift of Miss Mary Taylor through Mrs. Helen T. Steinbarger. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND 

The following miniature, watercolor on ivory, was acquired from 
the f mid established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden 
Myer: 

113. Miriam Etting Myers (1787-1808), by Benjamin Trott (c. 1770-c. 1841), 
from Mrs. Lesley Ashburner, Washington, D.C. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

Two miniatures, watercolor on ivory, Martha "Patty" Custis and 
Jolm Parke Custis, by Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827), lent Janu- 
ary 29, 1934, were withdrawn for exhibition purposes by Mrs. W. 
Hunter deButts and Mrs. H. E. Ely, Jr., on April 26, 1959. 

LOANS RETURNED 

Two oils, High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer, and 
Moonlight, by Albert P. Kyder, lent September 25, 1957, to the Car- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 113 

negie Institute, Pittsburgh, for inclusion in its traveling exhibition 
of American Classics of the 19th century, were returned July 2 and 
3, 1958, respectively. 

Oil, Street Shrine, by Jerome Myers, lent November 27, 1957, to the 
Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, was recalled July 3, 
1958, for inclusion in the Kanger Centennial Exhibition. 

Oil, Man in Wliite, by Cecilia Beaux, lent February 28, 1958, to 
the Wliite House, was recalled July 3, 1958, for inclusion in the Ran- 
ger Centennial Exhibition. 

Oil, Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne, lent December 30, 1957, to the 
Office of the Vice President was recalled July 8, 1958, for mclusion 
in the Ranger Centennial Exhibition. 

Tliree oils, The Figurine, by William Paxton ; New Year's Shooter, 
by George Luks ; and Self Portrait, by Will PI. Low, lent March 15, 
1955, October 18, 1956, and February 14, 1957, respectively, to the De- 
partment of Justice, were recalled July 10, 1958, for inclusion in the 
Ranger Centennial Exhibition. 

Two oils, Tohickon, by Daniel Garber, and The Rapids, by W. 
Elmer Schofield, lent August 23, 1955, to the Department of Defense 
were recalled July 15, 1958, for inclusion in the Ranger Centennial 
Exhibition. 

Oil, Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty, lent January 20, 1958, to the 
"White House, was recalled July 21, 1958, for inclusion in the Ranger 
Centennial Exhibition. 

Two sculptures. Manifest Destiny and Grizzly Bear, by Edward 
Kemeys, lent February 14, 1957, to the Department of Justice, were 
returned September 26, 1958. 

Oil, George Washington, attributed to William Winstanley, lent 
May 13, 1955, to the Department of State, was recalled October 14, 
1958, for inclusion in the exhibition "Profiles of the Times of James 
Monroe," October 26 to November 23, 1958. 

Oil, The Island, by Edward W. Redfield, lent January 3, 1957, to 
the Corcoran Gallery of Art for their 25th Biennial Exhibition of 
Contemporary American Oil Paintings and circulated by the Ameri- 
can Federation of Arts, was returned October 16, 1958. 

Oil, Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Massachusetts, by Frank 
Knox Morton Rehn, lent November 6, 1957, to the office of Represent- 
ative Richard Wigglesworth, was returned December 8, 1958. 

Oil, Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert Lorey GroU, lent April 15, 
1954, to the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, was returned March 11, 
1959. 

Two oils. Flume, Opalescent River, by Alexander Wyant, lent 
Januai-y 30, 1958, to the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, and Roimd 
Hill Road, by John Henry Twachtman, lent November 7, 1957, to the 
Municipal Court of Appeals, were recalled April 7, 1959, for the 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

exliibition "Turn-of- the- Century Paintings from the William T. 
Evans Collection," April 23 to June 1, 1959. 

Oil, The Bathers, by Kobert Reid, lent November 7, 1957, to the 
Municipal Court of Appeals, was returned April 7, 1959. 

Three oils, South Strand, by Emil Carlsen, lent September 21, 1966, 
to the Bureau of the Budget; End of Winter, by John Henry Twacht- 
man, lent January 22, 1957, to the Department of State; and Idle 
Hours, by Harry Mowbray, lent November 6, 1956, to the Interstate 
Coimnerce Commission, were recalled April 8, 1959, for the exhibition 
"Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the William T. Evans 
Collection." 

ART WORKS LENT 

The following art works, oil paintings on canvas unless otherwise 
noted, were lent for varying periods : 

To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C. : 

February 13, 1959 Abraham Lincoln, by George Story, 

To the Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., for their International Retrospective 
Exhibition, December 4, 1958, through February 8, 1959 : 

September 15, 1958 Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder. (Returned 

February 13, 1959.) 
To the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C. : 

March 20, 1959 My Old Mill, Holmescroft, near Rockville, by 

William H. Holmes (watercolor). 
A Maryland Wheat Field, by William H. 

Holmes (watercolor). 
Over the Maryland Fields, by William H. 

Holmes (watercolor). 
The Normal Rock Creek about 1910, by William 
H.Holmes (watercolor). 
To the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C. : 

October 29, 1958 Major John Wesley Powell, by Henry Ulke. 

(Returned November 4, 1958.) 

November 14, 1958 Major John Wesley Powell, by Edmund 

Clarence Messer. (Returned December 8, 
1958.) 
To the Department of Defense, Washington, D.C. : 

July 15, 1958 Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by 

Ralph A. Blakelock. (Returned August 13, 
1958.) 

August 13, 1958 In the Orchard, by Edmund C. Tarbell. 

To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. : 

May 5, 1959 Lauhala, by Hue M. Luquiens (drypoint). 

Derelict, by Beatrice S. Levy (aquatint). 
Winter Moonlight, by George Jo Mess (aqua- 
tint). 
In the Assiniboine Country, by R. H. Palenske 

(drypoint). 
A Mallard Marsh, by Roland Clark (drypoint). 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 115 

Spring Blossoms, Magnolia, by Bertha E. 

Jaques (drypoint). 
Anemones, by Bertha E. Jaques (drypoint). 
Canada Thistle, by Bertha B. Jaques (etch- 
ing.) 
Madonna Lilies, by Bertha E. Jaques (dry- 
point). 
To the Department of History, U.S. National Museum, for an exhibition of the 
Cyrus W. Field Collection commemorating the centennial anniversary of the 
laying of the Atlantic Cable : 

October 8, 1958 First messages sent over the Atlantic Cable 

(original message from Queen Victoria and 
copy of President Buchanan's reply). (Re- 
turned October 31, 1958.) 
To the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. : 

July 10, 1958 Mrs. Joseph B. CoUlns, by G. P. A. Healy. 

Coal Barge, Capri, 1880, by William H. Holmes 

(watercolor). 
Miss Mildred Lee, by S. Seymour Thomas. 
To the Knoedler Galleries, New York City, for an exhibition of the works of 
Raphaelle Peale, March 2 through 31, 1959, following the exhibition at the 
Milwaukee Art Center: 

February 1959 Robert Ollphant, by Raphaelle Peale (minia- 
ture, watercolor on ivory). 
Rubens Peale, by Raphaelle Peale (miniature, 
watercolor on ivory). 
(Both returned April 20, 1959.) 
To the Lincoln Sesquicentennial Commission, Washington, D.C. : 

February 11, 1959 Abraham Lincoln, by George Story. (Returned 

February 13, 1959.) 
To the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, for an exhibition of the 
works of Winslow Homer, January 27 through March 8, 1959, following the 
exhibition at the National Gallery of Art : 

January 15, 1959 The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer. 

High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer. 
(Both returned April 3, 1959.) 
To the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D.C. : 

June 16, 1959 Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way, 

by Emanuel Leutze. (Recalled July 13, 1959, 
to be sent to the American National Exhibi- 
tion in Moscow.) 
To the Milwaukee Art Center, Milwaukee, Wis., for an exhibition of works by 
Raphaelle Peale, January 15 through February 15, 1959: 
December 24, 1958 Robert Ollphant, by Raphaelle Peale (minia- 
ture, watercolor on ivory) . 
Rubens Peale, by Raphaelle Peale (miniature, 
watercolor on ivory). 
(Both forwarded to Knoedler Galleries for 
an exhibition March 2 through 31, 1959.) 
To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C. : 

July 8, 1958 Twilight After Rain, by Norwood Hodge Mac- 

Gilvary. 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

To the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., for an exhibition of the works 
of Winslow Homer, November 23, 1958, to January 4, 1959 : 

July 16, 1958 The Visit of the Mistress, by Winslow Homer. 

High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer, 
(Both forwarded to the Metropolitan Mu- 
seum of Art January 15, 1959, for ex- 
hibition.) 
Senate OflSce Building, Washington, B.C. : 

March 11, 1959 Laguna, New Mexico, by Albert Lorey Groll. 

To the Department of State, Washington, D.C. : 

October 14, 1958 Housatonic Valley, by Alexander Wyant 

December 31, 1958 The Grindstone, by Charles W. Dahlgreen 

(etching). 
Horse and Wagon, Noon, by George Fawcett 

(etching). 
The Tramp, by Sears Gallagher (etching). 
Sycamores by the River, by Alfred Hutty 

(etching). 
Fiesole from San Francisco, by Ernest Roth 

(etching). 
Locating the Blind, by Lee Sturges (etching). 
Winter Cornfield, by Lee Sturges (etching). 
The New Outfit, by Walter C. Yeomans (etch- 
ing). 

June 8, 1959 Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander Wyant. 

June 25, 1959 End of Winter, by John H. Twachtman. 

To the Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. : 

March 3, 1959 Portrait of a Lady, by Anders Zorn. 

To the U.S. Information Agency, Washington, D.C, for the American National 
Exhibition in Moscow, July 25 through September 25, 1959: 

June 15, 1959 High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Winslow Homer. 

To the Veterans' Administration, Washington, D.C. : 

December 16, 1958 Schoolgirl, by Mile. Marie Louise-Catherine 

Breslau (charcoal drawing). 
Nurse and Patient, by Jules Cayron (crayon 

drawing). 
"Ostend," by Arsene Chabanian (watercolor). 
Before the Crucifix, by Louis Adolphe 

Dechenaud (crayon drawing). 
Homeless Victim of War, by Hubert-Denis 

Etcheverry (crayon drawing). 
"Saint Cloud, 4 Juin, 1906," by Francois Fla- 

meng (watercolor). 
Wounded Soldier, by Henri Gervex (pastel). 
Peasant Girl, by P.-Franc Lamy (watercolor). 
Church Interior, by Maurice Lobre (charcoal 

drawing). 
"Primavera," by Edgard Henri Marie Maxence 

(red chalk drawing). 
"Les Poilus." "Quand je pense que j'aspirais 
a la vie au grand air," by Louis Abel Tru- 
chet (charcoal drawing). 
"Pour que la liberty continue d'6clairer le 
monde," by Henri Zo (charcoal drawing). 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 117 

February IG, 1959 The First Sharps Rifle (Homer D. Jennings, 

St. Cloud, Florida), by Walter Beck (pastel). 

The Signal, After the Battle of Big Bethel 
(John Tregaskis), by Walter Beck (pastel). 

Fisher of the Fifth New York Volunteer In- 
fantry, Dux-yee Zouaves, by Walter Beck 
(pastel). 

Drummer Boy of the Fighting Fifth after 
Gaines Mills (Robert F. Daly, New York 
City), by Walter Beck (pastel). 

The Lone Tree, by Arthur W. Hall (etching). 

Fry Street and the Old Polish Church, by 
Morris Henry Hobbs (etching). 

Mackerel, by Sears Gallagher (etching). 

Swift Current Falls, by Eugene Glaman (etch- 
ing). 

Davy Jones' Locker, by Margaret Ann Gaug 
(etching). 

Homeward Bound, by Sears Gallagher (etch- 
ing). 

The Port of Calvi, Corsica, by PhiUp H. Gid- 
dens (etching). 

Little Mexico, by Louis Oscar Griflfith (etching) . 

Top of Brooklyn Arch, by Allen Lewis (etch- 
ing). 

Port of the Passing Ship, by Allen Philbrick 
(etching). 

The Great Tapestry Hall, Hampton Court 
Palace, by Leon R. Pescheret (etching). 

Middle Temple Hall, London, by Leon R. Pes- 
cheret (etching). 

Avenue of Flags, by Leon R. Pescheret (etch- 
ing). 

Miao Feng T'a (near the Jade Fountain Pa- 
goda), by Hans Luthmann (etching). 

Village Street, Bedford, Massachusetts, by 
Chester Leich (etching). 

Tree, Manhattan, by Martin Lewis (etching). 

Salem's Old Wharves, Massachusetts, by Philip 
Little (etching). 

Arch, Roman Forum, by Bertha E. Jaques 
(etching). 

Boat Shop, Venice, by Bertha E. Jaques (etch- 
ing). 

Cheviot Sheep, Hampstead Heath, London, by 
Bertha E. Jaques (etching). 

Sphinx, Thames, London, by Bertha E. Jaques 
(etching). 

German Building, Chicago, by Bertha E. Jaques 
(etching). 

Seiners, Chioggia, by Bertha E. Jaques (etch- 
ing). 

The Temple, by Bertha E. Jaques (etching). 

Artichoke, by Bertha B. Jaques (etching). 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1969 

To the Office of Vice President Nixon, Washington, D.C. : 

July 8, 1958 Niagara, by George Inness. (Returned April 

7, 1959.) 
To The White House, Washington, D.C. : 

July 11, 1958 Portrait of J. J. Shannon, R.A., by Orlando 

Rouland. 

July 21, 1958 Southwesterly Gale, St. Ives, by Frederick 

Judd Waugh. 

(Recalled April 8, 1959, for the exhibition, 
"Turn-of-the-Century Paintings From the 
William T. Evans Collection.") 

August 19, 1958 Lower Ausable Pond, by Homer Dodge Martin. 

(Returned October 27, 1958.) 

December 17, 1958 Male Wood Duck on Shallow Water, by Richard 

Meryman. 
The Island, by Edward Willis Redfield. 
Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Massachu- 
setts, by Frank Knox Morton Rehn. 

January 23, 1959 Herbert Hoover, by Edmund Charles Tarbell. 

March 6, 1959 Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way, 

by Emanuel Leutze. 
(Returned March 13, 1959.) 

April 10, 1959 Outskirts of the Woods, by David Cox. 

(Returned June 25, 1959.) 

June 9, 1959 Southwesterly Gale, St. Ives, by Frederick 

Judd Waugh. 
June 25, 1959 Sun and Storm, by Paul Dougherty. 

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION 

Three oils, Little Paulus, Little Rosa, and Watching, by S. Sey- 
mour Thomas (1868-1956), gift of Mrs. Jean Haskell, were added 
December 2, 1958. 

Bronze, Sun Dance, by Paul Wayland Bartlett, KA. (1865-1925), 
gift of Mrs. Armistead Peter, Jr., was added December 2, 1958. 

Fourteen paintings by Alice Pike Barney, lent November 2, 1955, 
to the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange were returned January 23, 
1959, during a period of redecoration and re-lent, with Child with 
Fruit, March 18, 1959 : 

Minnete and Minet (pastel). Fantasy (pastel). 

The Visitor (pastel). Gladys (pastel). 

Endymion. Hippolyte Thom (pastel). 

The Dimple. Laura in Hat (pastel). 

Little Girl (pastel). Natalie in Greens (pastel). 

Hail Fellow, Well Met (pastel). Peggy (pastel). 

An Oriental (pastel). Romance (pastel). 

The following paintings were lent for varying periods : 

To The White House, Washington, D.C. : 

December 17, 1958 Ships at Anchor, Cherbourg No. 1, by Edwin 

Scott. 
To the Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. : 

March 3, 1959 Shapes of Fear, by Maynard Dixon. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



119 



THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

The following paintings, purchased previously but not assigned, 
have been allocated to the institutions indicated : 



Title and artist 

194. Circus Friends (watercolor), by A. 

Henry Nordliausen (1901- ). 

195. That Lonesome Road (water- 

color), by Roy M. Mason 
(1886- ). 

205. Benares on the Ganges, by Mau- 

rice Sterne, N.A. (1877-1957). 

206. Sea and Wharf at Provincetown, 

by Eric Isenburger, N.A. 
(1902- ). 
209. Everyday Is Washday (water- 
color), by Frederic Whitaker, 
N.A. (1891- ). 
210. Philadelphia (watercolor), by 
Hugh Gumpel (1920- ). 



Asaignment 

University of South Carolina, Colum- 
bia, S.C. 

San Joaquin Pioneer and Historical 
Society, Stockton, Calif. 

Phillips Gallery, Washington, D.C. 

M. H. De Young Museum, San Francis- 
co, Calif. 

Henry Art Gallery, University of Wash- 
ington, Seattle, Wash. 

Art Institute of Zanesville, Zanesville, 
Ohio. 



No. 25, Sleep, by Leon Kroll, N.A. (1884- ), purchased by the Council of the 
National Academy of Design December 4, 1922, was reassigned by the Academy 
to the Fitchburg Art Museum, Fitchburg, Mass., on February 20, 1959. 

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest, that paintings pur- 
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the 
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, and assigned to 
American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period 
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the fol- 
lowing painting was recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Com- 
mission at its meeting December 2, 1958 : 

No. 68, Mile. Maria Safonoff, by Irving R. Wiles, N.A. (1861-1948), returned 
to the Mount Holyoke College, Mount Holyoke, Mass., where it was originally 
assigned in 1928. 

The folloAving paintings, purchased by the Council of the National 
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as 
follows : 



Title and artist 

212. Boardwalk, by Carl Setterberg 

(1897- ). 

213. The Critic (Kermit Lansner), by 

Aaron Shikler (1922- ). 

214. Yesterday and Before and Before, 

by Loring W. Coleman 
(1918- ). 

215. Night Road, Sheffield, by Joseph 

Barber (1915- ). 

216. Autumn Landscape, by Robert 

Vickrey (1926- ). 

217. The Painter, Shelley Fink, by 

David Levine (1926- ). 
536608 — 60 9 



ABsignment 
Columbus Museum of Arts & Crafts, 

Columbus, Ga. 
(Assignment pending.) 

(Assignment pending.) 



Hollins College, Hollins, Va. 
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N.Y. 
(Assignment pending.) 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Title and artist Assignment 

218. Practice, by Iver Rose (1890- ). E. B. Crocker Art Gallery, Sacramento, 

Calif. 

219. Shopping District, by Sol Wilson Mary Washington College, University 

(1896- ). of Virginia, Fredericksburg, Va. 

220. At Foot of Mount Teton (water- Queens College Art Association, Flush- 

color), by Chen Chi, A.N.A. iug, N.Y. 
(1912- ). 

221. Port City, by John Guerin J. B. Speed Art JIuseum, Louisville, Ky. 

(1889- ). 

222. Harvest Time, Extremadura University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 

(vpatercolor), by Eileen Mona- Mass. 
ghan Whitaker, A.N.A. 
(1911- ). 

223. Still Life (vpatercolor), by Avel Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minn. 

de Knight (1923- ). 

224. Houses in Shade (watercolor), by Wesleyan University, Middletown, 

Edwin L. Dahlberg (1901- ). Conn. 

225. Men and Mist (watercolor), by University of Vermont, Burlington. Vt. 

Irving Shapiro ( - ). 

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

In addition to 71 exliibits held over from previous years as listed 
below, 29 new shows were introduced. The total of 100 were circulated 
to 240 museums, one having been prepared for the U.S. Information 
Service's use abroad. 

1954-1955: Japanese Woodcuts I ; Design in Holland ; and Carl Bodmer Paints 
the Indian Frontier. 

1955-1956: Sargent Watercolors; Architectural Photography; Contemporary 
Finnish Architecture ; European Glass Design ; Two Finnish Craftsmen ; Japan I 
by Werner Bischof ; This is the American Earth ; and Chinese Ivories from the 
Collection of Sir Victor Sassoon. 

1956-1951: A Frenchman in America, Charles- Alexandre Lesueur ; Paintings by 
Tessai ; American Printmakers ; George Bellows Prints and Drawings ; Contem- 
porary German Prints; Japanese Fish Prints; Architectural Photography II; 
German Architecture Today ; Landscape Architecture Today ; American Crafts- 
men, 1957 ; Recent Work by Harry Bertoia ; Good Design in Switzerland ; German 
Art Books ; A World of Children's Books ; Six Japanese Painters ; Early American 
Woodcarving; Punch and Judy; Japan II by Werner Bischof; The World of 
Edward Weston ; Young Germans Behind the Camera ; and Swedish Rock 
Carvings. 

1951-1958: American Primitive Paintings; Paintings by Jan Cox; Indian 
Paintings from Rajasthan; Mexican Work by Cock van Gent; Second Pacific 
Coast Biennial ; The American City in the 19th Century ; Recent American 
Prints ; Early Prints and Drawings of California ; Japanese Woodblock Prints ; 
Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties ; Birds by Emerson Tuttle ; 100 Years of 
American Architecture ; A Century of New England Architecture ; Contemporary 
Portuguese Architecture ; National Ceramic Exhibition, Sixth Miami Annual ; 
Fulbright Designers; Nylon Rug Designs; Religious Banners; Twelve Scandi- 
navian Designers ; Swedish Textiles Today ; Art Books from Italy ; Books for 
Young Scientists ; Burmese Embroideries ; The Way of Chinese Landscape Paint- 
ing ; Japanese Dolls ; Thai Painting ; Paintings by Jamini Roy ; The Anatomy of 
Nature ; Photographs of Angkor Wat ; Image of America ; Pup, Cub and Kitten ; 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 121 

Photographs of Sarawak ; Glimpses of Switzerland ; Argentine Children as Illus- 
trators ; Art in Opera I — Tosca ; Art in Opera II — Carmen ; As I See Myself; The 
Four Seasons; and Children's Paintings from Morocco. 

The exhibition American Folk Art was prepared for the use of the 
U.S. InfoiTQation Agency in the Brussels Universal and International 
Exhibition. 

UNITED STATES 

Paintings and Drawings 

Title Source 

Young British Painters Arts Club of Chicago ; Gimpel Fils, London ; 

artists. 
Dutch Master Drawings Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam ; Netherlands Em- 
bassy ; museums and private lenders. 
} Institute of International Education ; Senator 
J. WiUiam Fulbright; Lloyd Goodrich and 
artists. 

German Artists of Today Dr. Kurt Martin ; Kleemann Gallery ; German 

Embassy. 
Northwest Painters of Today — Seattle Art Museum; Dr. Richard Fuller; 

artists. 
Recent Work by Peter Takal— Cleveland Museum of Art, Miss Leona E. 

Prasse; artists and collectors. 
Transferences Michael Chase, Zwemmer Gallery, London. 

Graphic Arts 

Advertising in 19th Century Prints and Photographs Division of the Library 

America. of Congress. 

The Engravings of Pieter Brue- Mr. and Mrs. Jake Zeitlin, Los Angeles, Calif. 

ghel the Elder. 
Three Danish Printmakers Venice Biennale, 1958 ; Danish Embassy, Wash- 
ington, D.C. ; artists. 
Great European Printmakers — Munson- Williams-Proctor Institute, Utica, N.Y. 
Charles Fenderich — Lithogra- Prints and Photographs Division of the Library 

pher of American Statesmen. of Congress. 
Drawings from Latin Amer- Visual Arts Section, Pan American Union, 

ica. Washington, D.C. ; artists ; collectors. 

Contemporary Religious Prints Mr. and Mrs. W. Ross Sloniker ; Cincinnati 

from the Sloniker Collec- Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

tion. 
Religious Subjects in Modern Pennell Collection, Library of Congress. 

Graphic Arts. 
UNESCO Watercolor Repro- UNESCO, Paris, France. 

ductions. 

Design 

British Artists-Craftsmen British Artists-Craftsmen, Ltd. ; artists. 

Contemporary Finnish Rugs — Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Co., Inc.; "Ornamo," 

the Finnish Crafts Guild ; weavers. 

Contemporary French Tapes- Association des Peintres-Cortonniers de Tapi- 
tries. series, Paris; I'Association Frangaise d' Ac- 

tion Artistique ; French Ambassador ; artists. 

Contemporary Indian Crafts— Bengal Home Industries Association, Calcutta, 

India. 



122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Oriental Art 

Stone Rubbings from Angkor Cultural Center of Angkor ; Weyhe Gallery. 
Wat. 

Folk Art 

Shaker Craftsmanship Index of American Design, National Gallery 

of Art. 

Photography 

The Unguarded Moment, Pho- Peter Hunter, George Eastman House; Time 
tographs by Erich Salomon. and Life Building, New York ; Library of 

Congress. 

Children's Exhibitions 

Children's Paintings from Yorkville Youth Council, Inc., N.Y. ; Shankers 

Southeast Asia. Weekly. 

Drawings by European Chil- Dr. Joy B. Roy, collector. 

dren. 
Children's Paintings from In- Shankers Weekly ; Fine Arts Commission's 

dia. People to People Program. 

A Child Looks at the Museum Junior School, Art Institute of Chicago. 

Swiss Children's Paintings Mrs. Dorothy Snow, Boston Museum of Fine 

Arts. 

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES 

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail 
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 2,016. 
In all, 199 works of art. were submitted for examination and identi- 
fication. 

Special catalogs with introductions and biographical notes by the 
Director were published for the following three exhibitions : Profiles 
of the Time of James Monroe ; Henry Ward Ranger Centennial Ex- 
hibition; and Tum-of-the-Century Paintings from the William T. 
Evans Collection. He also published a vignette, Francis Davis Millet, 
in the Cosmos Club Bulletin for May 1959. 

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi- 
tions: American Primitive Paintings; British Artist-Craftsmen; 
Dutch Master Drawings ; Contemporary French Tapestries ; Fulbright 
Painters; Recent Work by Peter Takal; and UNESCO Water Color 
Reproductions. Special aclaiowledgments for two of these were writ- 
ten by Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope and Mrs. Jo Ann Sukel Lewis. 

Mr. Beggs was one of the three jurors for the national newspaper 
cartoon contest on the subject of "Human Betterment," Birmingham, 
Ala., on January 16, 1959, and he judged the regional exhibition of 
the National League of American Pen Women on April 27, 1959. 
On September 1, 1958, he participated in a symposium, "The Study of 
Art as the Study of Man," at the American Psychological Association 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 123 

meetings, and on May 10, 1959, in a television show, "The 25th Hour," 
concerning the history of miniatures, showing examples from the Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts permanent collection. He served on 
the Committee on Liturgical Arts of the Rock Spring Congregational 
Church, Arlington, Va., contributing three talks on the fine arts in a 
series of 12. He spoke on "Henry Ward Ranger, Painter and Bene- 
factor," at the Art League of Manatee County, Bradenton, Fla., Feb- 
ruary 24, 1959. He became a member of the Committee for the 
Preservation of American Art, New York City, which awarded three 
heroic sculptures by Karl Bitter (1867-1915) to the city of Indian- 
apolis in a national competition, and served for the third year on the 
Cultural Presentations Committee, Operations Coordinating Board, 
which advises the Department of State in the selection of artists for its 
oversea program. 

On June 1-3, 1959, JMr. Beggs attended meetings of the Interna- 
tional Institute for Conservation and the opening of the American 
Association of Museums meetings in Pittsburgh. 

Mrs. Pope gave a talk on May 8 at the University of Virginia in 
Charlottesville on the Traveling Exhibition Service program. She 
attended openings of the Dutch Master Drawings in Washington, 
New York, Cleveland, and Chicago, and the meetings of the American 
Association of Museums in Pittsburgli. Miss Acton represented the 
Smithsonian Traveling p]xhibition Service in a panel discussion at 
the meetings of the Soutlieast Museums Conference at Winston-Salem, 
N.C., between October 15 and 18, 1958. 

The staff participated in the organization of three important special 
commemorative exhibitions in cooperation with other institutions. 
At the request of the James Monroe Memorial Foundation, a bicenten- 
nial exhibition was shown in the rotunda of the Natural History 
Building, a special brochure and catalog being published. An exhibi- 
tion requested on behalf of the Lincoln Sesquicentennial Commis- 
sion was organized, with the assistance of the Lincoln JSIuseum, and 
shown at the Washington Cathedral. It was also exhibited in New 
York at the Sheraton Park Hotel in connection with the Independ- 
ence Stamp Show. In cooperation with the National Academy of 
Design, a Henry Ward Ranger Centennial exhibition was shown in 
New York City during the fall, and circulated in part from January 
through June. 

Rowland Lyon served as juror for the following four shows : To- 
day's Artists in Charles County (Maryland) ; Westmoreland Hills 
Art Fair; Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of 
Washington, D.C. ; and the Arts Club Outdoor Art Fair. 

Twenty-seven paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent col- 
lections were cleaned and revarnished, 1 was relined, and 58 picture 
frames were repaired and refiinished with the assistance of Buildings 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Management Service. One painting, James W. Melville, by S. de 
Ivanowitz, was relined to repair a 16-inch tear in the canvas, for the 
U.S. National Museum. 

Three paintings, Italian Landscape, Sunset Glow, by Tom Jones; 
Lord Roth, by Sir Joshua Reynolds; and Fishing Boats Beating 
Up to Windward, by Edward Moran, were renovated by Henri G. 
Courtais, who also restored The Cottage Door, by Thomas 
Gainsborough. 

An oil, Major John Wesley Powell, by Edmund C. Messer, was 
renovated by Francis Sullivan. 

Janice Hines relined two oil paintings. Major John Wesley Powell, 
by Henry Ulke, and House in the Valley of Wyoming, by Boese, and 
renovated the following from the William T. Evans Collection : The 
Blacksmith, by James Caroll Beckwith ; The Black Orchid, by Fred- 
erick Stuart Church ; The Spouting Wliale, by William Morris Hunt ; 
Algerian Water Carrier, by William Sartain ; Water Lilies, by Walter 
Shirlaw ; The Boy with the Arrow, by Douglas Volk ; Mrs. William 
T. Evans and Son John, by Henry Oliver Walker; and A Gentle- 
woman, by J. Alden Weir. 

Joseph Ternbach renovated the following 12 objects from the Gel- 
latly collection: Incense burner, enameled and chased copper, 15th 
century (234.1) ; Bj^zantine necklace of gold medallions with inlaid 
depictions of Christ and Apostles (247.1) ; Champleve limoges plaque, 
the Crucifixion, French, 13th century (250.1) ; copper chasse, French, 
13th century (251.1) ; Champleve limoges crucifix, French, 13th cen- 
tury (252.1) ; Champleve crozier, the Annunciation, French, 13th 
century (254.1) ; Russian ikon. Our Lady of Vladmiir, (488.1) ; Pyxis 
with enamel decoration, 13th century (602.1) ; silver filigreed phoenix, 
Chinese (271.1) ; silver filigreed crown, ornamented with gems and 
symbols, Chinese (272.1) ; silver and enamel peacock (621.1) ; Chinese 
glass bowl (580). 

Donald Hitchcock, Dumbarton Oaks Research Library, translated 
the Church Russian inscriptions on the silver-gilt ikon, Our Lady of 
Vladimir, in the Gellatly collection. 

The entrance to the Benjamin H. Warder home, received from the 
Cooperating Committee on Architecture in May 1923, was dismantled, 
crated, and stored at Suitland on May 15, 1959. 

An oil, John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy, was copied by C. Gregory 
Stapko in a studio furnished to the National Collection of Fine Arts 
for that purpose through the courtesy of the National Gallery of Art. 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

Seventeen special exhibitions were held during the year : 

August 21 through September 26, 1958. — Third Biennial Exhibition of Creative 
Crafts sponsored by the Ceramic Guild of Bethesda, Cherry Tree Textile Design- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 125 

ers, Clay Pigeons Ceramic Workshop, Designer-Weavers, the Potomac Craftsmen, 
and the Kiln Club of Washington, consisting of 142 items. Craft demonstrations 
were given. A catalog was privately printed. 

Octoher 12 through November 2, 1958. — Sculptures, Oils, Watercolors, and 
Drawings by Charles M. Russell, sponsored by the Montana State Society of 
Washington, D.C., consisting of 20-5 items. An illustrated catalog was privately 
printed. 

Octoher 26 through November 23, 1958. — Profiles of the Time of James Monroe, 
under the auspices of the James Monroe Memorial Foundation, consisting of 
178 objects including paintings, sculpture, silhouettes, and memorabilia, was 
held in the rotunda. A catalog was printed. 

December S, 1958, through January 4, 1959. — The 21st Anniversary of the 
Metropolitan Art Exhibition, sponsored by the American Art League, consisting 
of 63 paintings and 12 sculptures, was held in the rotunda. 

December 3, 1958, through January 4, 1959. — Henry Ward Ranger Centennial 
Exhibition consisting of 30 paintings from the National Collection of Fine 
Arts permanent collection that had been exhibited at the National Academy of 
Design, September 25 through October 12, 1958, in its commemoration of this 
artist's birth, was held in the rotunda. A catalog was printed. 

Following the National Collection of Fine Arts showing, these 30 paintings 
were circulated from January through June 1959 to the following museums: 
Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N.C. ; Art League of Manatee County, Braden- 
ton, Fla. ; Jacksonville Art Museum, Jacksonville, Fla. ; Gibbes Art Gallery, 
Charleston, S.C. ; and North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, N.C. 

January 10 through February 1, 1959. — British Artist-Craftsmen, sponsored 
by the Ambassador of Great Britain and Lady Caccia, and later circulated by 
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 178 objects, altar 
sculpture, stained glass, ceramics, glass, silver, etc. The Rose Book was lent 
by the Churchill family for special showing during this exhibition. A catalog 
was privately printed. 

February 7 through 27, 1959. — The 66th Annual Exhibition of the Society of 
Washington Artists, consisting of 66 paintings and 18 sculptures. A catalog 
was privately printed. 

February 28 through March 22, 1959. — Fulbright Painters and Designers, 
under the sponsorship of the Honorable J. W. Fulbright, Senator from Arkansas 
(circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of 
60 paintings and approximately 200 objects, including furniture, textiles, silver, 
ceramics, stained glass, etc. A catalog was privately printed. 

March 29 through April 26, 1959. — Contemporary Glass and Textiles by Lu- 
crecia Moyano de Muniz, sponsored by the Ambassador of Argentina, Dr. Cesar 
Barros Hurtado, consisting of 49 glass objects and 12 rugs. 

March 29 through April 26, 1959. — Photographs of Argentina by Gustavo 
Thorlichen, sponsored by the Ambassador of Argentina, Dr. Cesar Barros Hur- 
tado, consisting of 58 prints. 

April 19 through May 3, 1959. — Stone Rubbings from Angkor Wat (circulated 
by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of 23 rubbings 
made from the 12th-century sandstone reliefs. 

April 19 through May 3, 1959. — Photographs of Angkor Wat (circulated by 
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service), consisting of 100 photographs 
stressing architecture of monuments built by Khmer King, Suryavarman II. 

April 23 through June 1, 1959. — Turn-of-the-Century Paintings from the Wil- 
liam T. Evans Collection, consisting of 57 paintings exhibited for the 50th 
Anniversary American Federation of Arts Convention, was held in the first- 
floor galleries. A catalog was printed. 



126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

May 3 through 21, 1959. — The 26th Annual Exhibition of the Miniature Paint- 
ers, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C., consisting of 191 items. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

May 3 through 21, 1959. — The 63d Annual National Exhibition of the Washing- 
ton Water Color Club, consisting of 117 paintings. A catalog was privately 
printed. 

June 2 through 9, 1959. — Children's Paintings from Morocco, a selection from 
the paintings owned by the Moroccan Embassy, consisting of 79 works. 

June H through July 5, 1959. — Eighth Interservice Photography Contest, con- 
sisting of 75 photographs by members of the Armed Forces. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Thomas M. Beggs, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the 39th annual report on the 
Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1959. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Twenty-seven objects were added to the collections by purchase 
as follows: 

CLASS 

58.16. Syrian, early 14th century. Footed bowl with cover; gilding with red 
outlines and richly enameled with red, blue, green, white, and yellow 
colors forming floral and animal designs ; much of it in Chinese style. 
Height 0.311 x diameter 0.210. ( Illustrated. ) 

LACQUER 

59.5. Indian, Deccani school, mid-17th century. Signed by Rahim Dekkani; 

penbox (qalamdan) with figural scenes of the life of princes on both 
sides of the cover ; arabesque and floral designs on brick-red outer side 
walls ; gold floral pattern on the greenish-brown bottom and undecorated 
black interior; two metal chains at sides, and clasp. 0.282 x 0.053 x 
0.049. 

METALWORK 

58.15. Indian, Mughal, 17th century (1605-27). Dagger with name of Jahfingir 
on upper chape. Steel blade with central ridge. Ivory flange inlaid 
with black mastic and gold wire (the hilt flange of walrus ivory is 
fixed to steel tang by pins ending in two silver rosettes) ; tang sheathed 
with gold and studded with 16 larger and 34 smaller jewels ; guard and 
two chapes either in silver or niello or in reverse (chapes are now 
detachable) ; one larger, six smaller stones, and some gold inlay lost, 
one ivory corner chipped. Length (overall) 0.295 x width of guard 
0.210. 

58.6. Persian, Seljuq period, 11th century. Gold bracelet; quatrefoil hinge 

decoration composed of 4 large and 12 small domes with granulation 
work, and four inlaid turquoises. Diameter 0.106 ; weight 73.6 grams. 

58.7. Persian, Sasanlan period. Silver gilt plate ; spherical, footless, with 

spread-eagle design in low, chased relief; framing wreath, double walls; 
part of gilt worn off ; patination. 0.044 x 0.282. 
58.14. Persian, Seljuq period, llth-12th century. Gold bracelet, oval shaped; 
three rows of conical projections (66 in all), framed by two rows of 
smaller cones (172 in all) ; at the top side opening (closed by pin) 4 
pairs of confronted dove figures partly executed with filigree, stand 
on 2 X 11 strands of twisted wire. Maximum diameter (overall) 
0.097 X width 0.050 ; weight 354.5 grams. 

127 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

PADrrmc 

58.8. Chinese, Ch'ing dyuasty. Two mynali birds on a brancli ; a squirrel 

leaping for a wild grapevine; ink and light color on paper; by Hua 
Yen (1682-1758) ; artist's inscription and two of his seals on painting. 
0.603 X 1.345. 

58.9. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty. Landscape, "A Morning View of the Yao Peak," 

by Chiang Shih-chieh (1647-1709) ; two inscriptions by the artist and 
nine of his seals on the painting ; one collector's seal. 0.540 x 0.242. 

58.10. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty, 17th century. Landscape in ink and color on 

paper ; by Hsiao Yiin-ts'ung ; inscription by the artist, signed and dated 
(1658) ; one seal of the artist. 0.410 x 0.957. 
59.1- Indian, Sultanate period, middle or second half of 15th century. Set of 

59.4. four miniatures from a manuscript of Amir Khusraw Dihlavi's Khamse; 
nastaTiq writing in four columns ; painting in colors on paper. Average : 
0.110 X 0.210. 

58.4r- Japanese, Ashikaga period, Idealistic Chinese school. A pair of 6-fold 

58.5. screens painted in ink and color on paper; mountain landscape by 
Sesshu (1420-1506). Average: 1.610 x 3.512. (58.5 illustrated.) 

58.11. Japanese, Kamakura period, Yamatoe school. "Yuzu Nembutsu Engi," 

dated 1329 ; in ink and color on paper. 0.290 x 14.163. 

58.12. Japanese, Decorative school, 17th century. Wistaria and other flowers; 

by Roshu ; ink and color on paper. 1.2.59 x 0.520. 
58.17- Japanese, Ashikaga period, Yamatoe school, 15th centm*y. Set of three ; 
58.19. landscape-Kumano Mandara; ink, color, and gold on silk. Average: 

1.165 X 0.593. 
59.8. Japanese, Momoyama, Ukiyoe school, mid-17th century- Scenes in Kyoto, 

"Gion Festival" ; 6-fold screen ; ink, color, and gold leaf on paper. 

3.480 X 1.505. 

POTTERY 

58.13. Chinese, T'ang dynasty, 8an-ts'ai ware. Bowl with plain rim ; clay : buff 

stoneware; transparent glaze, streaked with brownish-yellow and 
green ; finely crackled ; iridescent inside bottom. 0.O17 x 0.103. 

59.6 Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Vase of truncated bottle shape with 

flat base, rounded shoulders, short neck, and flaring lip ; clay : fine- 
grained white stoneware ; glaze : transparent, glossy ; decoration : peony 
scrolls in brown slip with incised details. 0.163 x 0.166, (Illustrated.) 

59.7 Chinese, Sung dynasty, celadon, Li-shui type. Covered vase with flaring 

foot ring ; two loop handles ; flaring mouth and vertical lip ; clay : light- 
gray porcellaneous stoneware, fired reddish brown ; glaze : transparent 
olive-green with fine crackle; decoration: incised on body, carved on 
cover. 0.370 (with cover) x 0.165. 

59.9 Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hsiian-te period. Bowl, deep with thick walls and 
flat, low foot ring ; clay : fine white porcelain ; glaze : transparent, faintly 
bluish inside and flocculent blue outside, none on base; decoration: 
incised in the paste outside are waves, dragons, and lotus panels ; 6- 
character mark of the period inside bottom. 0.125 x 0.264. 

58.3 Japanese, Edo period, Kakiemon, early 18th century. Octagonal dishr 
clay : fine white porcelain ; glaze : transparent, very slightly mat ; deco- 
ration: two large fish in underglaze blue among water weeds in over- 
glaze enamels. 0.050 x 0.333. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 129 

59.10 Japanese, Etlo period, Nabeshima. Shallow dish with high, thin foot ring ; 
clay : fine white porcelain ; glaze : transparent ; decoration : in ander- 
glaze blue outside and in, the latter combined with overglaze enamels. 
0.037 X 0.150. 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS 

Twenty-nine Chinese, Japanese, and Persian objects were restored, 
repaired, or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition, he repaired 13 
books for the library. 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 445 as follows: 

American art : Paintings 60 

Drawings 29 Stone sculpture 10 

Etchings 20 Japanese art : Paintings — 4 

Lithographs 18 Korean art: 

Chinese art: Bronze 6 

Bronze 34 Jade 7 

Ivory 8 Metalwork 6 

Lacquer 4 Pottery 65 

Christian art : Near Eastern art : 

Crystal 1 Bookbindings 10 

Glass 3 Manuscripts 28 

Gold 9 Metalwork 30 

Paintings 8 Paintings 44 

Stone sculpture 1 Pottery 18 

Indian art: Stone sculpture 2 

Bronze 2 Wood sculpture 2 

Manuscripts 12 Tibetan art: Paintings 4 

LIBRARY 

Among the 1,005 acquisitions for the library of the Freer Gallery, 
there were 533 welcome gifts from individuals and exchanges from 
other institutions. Outstanding in the purchases were: Dai lean wa 
jiten (Great Chinese- Japanese dictionary), 10 of the 13 volumes have 
been received; Sekai toji zenshu (Catalogue of the world's ceramics) 
in 16 volumes, Tokyo, Kawade Shobo, 1955-58; /Sekai hokogaku 
ta'Jcei (Archaeology of the world), to be complete in IG volumes, 
Tokyo, Ileibonsha, 1958- ; Pearson, Index Islamicus, 1906-1955, 
Cambridge, Pleffer & Sons, 1958 ; Kern Institute, Annual hibliogra'phy 
of Indian archaeology^ vol. 16 {194-8-1953), Leiden, Brill, 1958; 
Gulik, R. II. van, Chinese pictorial art as viewed hy the connoisseur, 
Roma, 1958; Nishimura Tei, Namhan art, Christian art in Japan, 
151^9-1639, Tokyo, 1959. 

The library receives publications from mainland China and ex- 
changes publications with the Hermitage Museum, Leningrad. 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

In all, 454 scholars and students other than the Gallery staff read 
and studied in the library. Twenty interested persons saw the Wash- 
ington Manuscripts from the vault and studied the facsimiles. 

In the reshelving of the library a rare book division was estab- 
lished. This includes these books which are outstanding examples of 
Japanese rare books: Sanjurok-kasen (The thirty-six immortals of 
Japanese poetry), [n.p., Suminokura Soan, n.d.]. Each page con- 
tains a portrait with the name of the poet and his or her poem. These 
poets were selected by the poet Fujiwara no Kinto, with illustrations 
considered to be by Tosa Mitsushige. This is a perfect copy, prob- 
ably in its original condition. Its slightly tinted papers of yellowish 
and brownish shades are interleaved with white papers. The sheets 
are not numbered and there is no other inscription except the names 
of the poets and their poems. The writings are judged to be in the 
style of Koetsu's calligraphy. The second book is a collection : Utai- 
hon (one hundred utai for the No plays of Kanze school), first 
edition. Calligraphy by Honami Koetsu with the 36 designs said to 
be by Sotatsu, brother-in-law of Koetsu. These are Saga-bon (books 
printed in Saga) under the patronage of Suminokura Soan, a very 
wealthy businessman and an ardent pupil of Koetsu in calligraphy. 
The paper was probably prepared by "paper maker Kyoji," who lived 
with Koetsu at his villa Takagamine. The papermill was situated by 
the river Kamiyagawa, which flows near Koetsu's own villa at Takaga- 
mine. The books are printed from movable type on both sides of 
the paper. The sheets are folded once in the center, sewed with red 
silk, and bound two quires to a volume. The paper is white and 
colored, heavy, coated with clay, and printed with floral designs in 
mica. The covers are various-colored papers of the same quality, 
with dark-tan labels. 100 volumes in 6 lacquer boxes after Koetsu's 
designs. Dr. Yukio Yashiro of Japan, an authority on these books, 
says the calligraphy on the boxes is not Koetsu's. These volumes are 
extremely rare in Japan. 

The year's record of cataloging included a total of 1,422 entries of 
wliich 666 analytics were made, 425 titles of books and pamphlets were 
cataloged, and 53 titles were recataloged and reclassified. Of the total 
of 4,970 cards necessary for the above work, only 610 were available 
as printed cards from the Library of Congress. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Two publications were issued by the Gallery as follows : 

The Freer Gallery of Art. 16 pp., 8 pis., 2 floor plans, 1 plan of court planting. 

Rev. ed. 1958. ( Smithsonian Inst. Publ. 4185.) 
Fong, Wen. The lohans and a bridge to heaven. Occas. Pap., vol. 3, No. 1, 64 

pp., 18 pis., 1 fig., 1958. (Smithsonian Inst. Tubl. 4305.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 131 

Papers by staff members appeared in outside publications as fol- 
lows : 

Cahill, James F. Review of "The Arts of the Ming Dynasty." Catalog of 
an exhibition organized by the Arts Council of Great Britain and the Ori- 
ental Ceramic Society. The Journal of Asian Studies, Ann Arbor, vol. 18, 
No. 2, pp. 289-290, February 1959. 

. Foreword for the exhibition of paintings by Chi Chuan Wang held 

March 10-April 4, 1959, at Mi Chou Gallery, New York City. 

. Ch'ien Hsiian and his figure paintings. Archives of the Chinese Art 



Society of America, vol. 12, pp. 10-29, 1958. 

Ettikghausen, Richard. An exhibition of the ancient arts of Muslim coun- 
tries in Lahore. West Pakistan, vol. 1, No. 8, April 1958. 

. Comments on the nature of Islamic art and its symbols. In The Pak- 
istan Quarterly, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 39-40, 64, Spring 1958. 

. 'Abbasidi-la pittura murale la miniature le arte decorative. Enciclo- 

pedia Universale delVArte, vol. 1, col. 10-18. Roma, Istituto per la Col- 
laborazione Culturale, 1959. 

. 'Abdu's-Samad. In Enciclopedia Universale delVArte, vol. 1, col. 18-21. 

Roma, Istituto per la CoUaborazione Culturale, 1959. 

. Review of "Der Orientalische Kniipfteppich, Versuch einer Darstellung 

seiner Geschichte," by K. Erdmann. Oriens, vol. 2, pp. 257-264, 1958. 

. Review of "Islamic Woodcarvers and their Works," by L. A. Mayer, 



for The Muslim World, Hartford (Conn.) Seminary Foundation, January 
1959, p. 60. 

Gettens, Ruthekfobd J. The identification of pigments and inerts on paintings 
and other museum objects. Application of Science in Examination of Works 
of Art, Sept. 15-18, 1958, pp. 31^9. 

. Examining tables in use at the Freer Gallery of Art. Studies in Con- 
servation, vol. 4, pp. 23-27, illus., February 1959. 

Pope, John Alexander. Two Chinese porcelains in the Umezawa Collection. 
Yamato Bunka No. 28, pp. 1-12, December 1958. 

. Chinese characters in Brunei and Sarawak ceramics. TJie Sarawak 

Museum Journal, vol. 3, No. 11 (new series), pp. 267-272, 1958. 

Stebn, Harold P. Ukiyoe paintings ; selected problems. University of Michi- 
gan, 1958. 

West, Elisabeth Hebard. A ring-mount for micro-cross-sections of paint and 
other materials. In Studies in Conservation, vol. 4, pp. 27-31, illus., Feb- 
ruary 1959. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY AND SALES DESK 

The photographic laboratory made 6,960 items during the year, as 
follows : 4,072 prints, 606 negatives, 1,894 color slides, 405 black-and- 
white slides, and 83 color film sheets. In all, 2,463 slides were lent 
during the year. At the sales desk 23,921 items were sold, compris- 
ing 2,098 publications and 21,823 reproductions (including postcards, 
slides, photographs, reproductions in the round, etc.). 

BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

The exterior walls of the building appear to be in good condition, 
but the roof has begun to show signs of wear. The exterior doors at 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

the north and south entrances were refinished to an antique bronze, 
and a brass handrail was mstalled at the north entrance. Window 
sills throughout the building have been painted, and painting of struc- 
tural steel and metal work in the attic was begun. 

Four bookcases were completed for the library and one for the office 
of the Assistant Director, and work on exhibition cases for the gal- 
leries continued. A radial saw was installed in the cabinet shop, and a 
cabinet for a print dryer for the photographic laboratory and light- 
proof equipment for the technical laboratory were constructed. Gal- 
lery benches were redesigned and upholstered. 

All trees, plants, and shrubs appear to be doing very well. The 
Meyer zoysia grass is making an excellent showing, except for two 
small plots on the south side that are in complete shade for the winter 
season. Experiments are being made to correct this situation. Vinca 
and Gomphrena planted around the fountain for the present season 
are doing very well. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4 :30 every day except 
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main 
entrance was 119,333. The highest monthly attendance was in Au- 
gust, 14,891, and the lowest was in December, 4,018. 

There were 2,508 visitors to the office for the following purposes: 

For general information 1, 012 

To submit objects for examination 470 

To see staff members ., 193 

To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries 127 

To study in library 454 

To see building and installations 37 

To examine or borrow slides 41 

To sketch in galleries 3 

To see objects in storage : 

American art 23 

Christian art (Washington MSS.) 46 

Far Eastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, etc 20 

Far Eastern metalwork 28 

Far Eastern paintings 183 

Far Eastern pottery 35 

Near Eastern bookbindings, glass, etc 7 

Near Eastern metalwork 17 

Near Eastern paintings 26 

Near Eastern pottery 10 

AUDITORIUM 

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows : 

1958 
October 7. Dr. Richard Ettinghausen, Curator of Near Eastern Art, 

Freer Gallery of Art. "Paintings of the Sultans and Em- 
perors of India," Attendance, 296. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



133 



1958 
November 4. 



1959 
January 6. 



Basil Gray, Keeper of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum, 
London, England. "Five Hundred Years of Chinese Wall 
Painting at Tun-huang." Attendance, 293. 



"How to Look at 



Dr. Wen Fong, Princeton University. 

Chinese Paintings." Attendance, 298. 
Miss Elizabeth Lyons, Queens College, New York City. 

"Temple Paintings of Thailand." Attendance, 234. 
Harold P. Stern, Associate Curator of Japanese Art, 

Freer Gallery of Art. "Popular Paintings of Tokugawa, 

Japan." Attendance, 157. 
Dr. John A. Pope, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery of Art. 

"Hinduism and Buddhism at Angkor." Attendance, 326. 

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows : 

1958 

Ikebana International held a meeting during which Miss 
Seikoh Ogawa gave a demonstration and illustrated lec- 
ture on "Japanese Flower Arrangement." Attendance, 428. 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Marketing Workshop, 
held meetings with attendance as follows : 82, 96, 83, and 
127 ; total, 388. 



February 10. 



March 10. 



April 7. 



August 13. 



September 23-26. 



1959 
January 8-9. 



January 13-20. 



January 27. 



February 2. 



February 19. 



April 2. 

April 14- 
June 29. 

May 6. 



May 20. 



June 2. 



June 18. 



The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Extension Serv- 
ice, held meetings with attendance as follows: 96 and 81; 
total, 177. 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture held all-day meetings of 
Administrative Conference (Telephone) with attendance as 
follows : 121 and 124 ; total, 215. 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Under Secretary's OflSce, 
held a meeting of the Farmers' Union. Attendance, 156. 

The District of Columbia Psychological Association held an 
evening meeting. Attendance, 62. 

The U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 
Food and Drug Administration, held a seminar on "Meta- 
bolic Fate of Drugs in Different Species." Attendance, 167. 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural 
Service, showed a movie on Africa. Attendance, 153. 

Twelve rehearsals were held by a group from the Smithsonian 
Institution for a musical program of 15th-century music 
using antique musical instruments. 

The U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food 
and Drug Administration, held an all-day meeting. 
Attendance, 82. 

The Smithsonian Institution sponsored an illustrated lecture 
by H. Alan Lloyd on "Pre-Renaissance Clocks and Their 
Influence." Attendance, 92. 

The Museum Store Managers held a meeting; cochairmen 
were Mrs. Elizabeth Ostertag, National Gallery of Art, and 
Mrs. Lnor O. West, Freer Gallery of Art. A talk on "Copy- 
right" was given by Richard MacCarteney, Copyright Divi- 
sion, Library of Congress. Attendance, 35. 

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Extension Service, 
and The 4-H Club held a meeting. Attendance, 112. 



134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

1959 

June 24. American Library Association, Art Section, Chairman, Mrs. 

Bertha Usilton, librarian, Freer Gallery of Art, held a 
meeting. A talk was given on "A New Program in the 
Documentation of Art." Attendance, 220. 

June 30. The Smithsonion Institution, Division of Cultural History, 

presented "A Program of loth-Century Music." Attend- 
ance, 361. 

On October 8, 1958, the Gallery was open in the evening and docent 
service was given by Dr. James Cahill and Rutherford J. Gettens 
to a group of nine members of the Executive Committee, International 
Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry ; Dr. Edward Wichers headed 
this distinguished group. 

STAFF ACTIVITIES 

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new 
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub- 
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects 
in the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Per- 
sian, Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and 
exclusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below) 
were made on 8,637 objects as follows: For private individuals, 
4,785 ; for dealers, 1,619 ; for other museums, 2,233. In all, 834 photo- 
graphs were examined, and 1,151 Oriental language inscriptions were 
translated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 20 
groups totaling 430 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent 
service by the staff members. 

Five groups totaling 101 persons were given docent service by staff 
members in the storage rooms. 

Among the visitors were 87 distinguished foreign scholars or per- 
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here 
under the auspices of the State Department to study museum admin- 
istration and practices in this country. 

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following 
activities : 

Freer Gallery objects examined 115 

Microchemically 2 

Microscopically 36 

Ultraviolet 30 

X-ray diffraction 31 

Chemical analysis 27 

Treated, cleaned, or repaired 37 

Outside objects examined 107 

Microchemically 23 

Microscopically 45 

Ultraviolet 41 

X-ray diffraction 4 

Treated, cleaned, or repaired 6 



Secretary's Report. 1959 



PLATE 5 




o 




Pi 



Secretary's Report. 1959 



PLATE 6 




o 



^~™i LO C 



« 





"mM 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 135 

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during 
the year : 

1. During February and March Mr. Gettens spent 2 weeks, and 
Miss West 6 weeks, working as guests in the Chemistry Department, 
Brookliaven National Laboratory, Upton, Long Ishxnd, N.Y. The 
project of spectrochemical analysis of some 30 inscribed ceremonial 
bronzes from the Freer collection, which was begun last year, was 
brought nearly to completion. 

2. Chemical anaylsis of the same series of bronzes by conventional 
wet methods was completed. 

3. Examination of some 550 jade objects in the Freer collection, 
which included X-ray diffraction analysis of 150 jades, was completed. 

4. Mr. Gettens took over editorship of Abstracts of the Teclmical 
Literature and Archaeology and the Fine Arts, published by the 
International Institute for Conservation of Museum Objects, London, 
England. 

5. The systematic collection of data on the technology of ancient 
copper and bronze in the Far East was continued. 

6. Studies on the corrosion products of ancient metal objects were 
continued. 

During the year, 4 written reports were made and 128 verbal reports 
given on objects examined in the teclmical laboratory. 

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) : 

1958 

July 1. Dr. Cahill, to the Society for Asian Art, San Francisco, 

Calif., "Painting Albums in China and Japan." Attend- 
ance, 100. 

September 1. Dr. Pope, at a session of the Division of Esthetics, Sympo- 

sium of the American Psychological Association, Statler 
Hotel, Washington, D.C., "The Freer Gallery of Art." 
Attendance, 150. 

September 3. Dr. Cahill, at the Fourth Conference on Chinese Thought, 

Aspen, Colo., "Confucian Elements in Chinese Painting 
Theory." Attendance, 16. (Not illustrated.) 

September 15. Mr. Gettens, at the Seminar on Applications of Science in 

Examination of Works of Art, Museum of Fine Arts, 
Boston, Mass., "Identification of Pigments." Attend- 
ance, 73. 

November 3. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, 

Md., "Islam." Attendance, 183. 

December 11. Dr. Cahill, at the University of Chicago, Chicago, 111., 

"Two Concepts of Painting in China." Attendance, 50. 

December 12. Dr. Cahill, at the University of Chicago, Chicago, 111., 

"The Theory of Literati Painting." Attendance, 60. 

December 14. Mr. Stern, at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, 

San Francisco, Calif., "The Korean Exhibition." At- 
tendance, 100. 
536608— 60 10 



136 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



1959 
January 15. 



January 16. 

January 29. 

January 30. 

February 3. 
February 9. 
March 17. 
March 18. 
March 19. 
April 9. 

April 10. 

April 16. 
April 30. 
May 7. 
May 23. 



Members of 
ness as follows 

1958 
June 20- 
August 11. 



Dr. Ettinghausen, at the annual Regents' dinner, Smith- 
sonian Institution, "Objects Dealing with Christmas 
Themes in the Freer Gallery Collections." Attendance 
34. 

Mr. Stern, to the Japan-American Society, Georgetown 
Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C., "Hokusai." 
Attendance, 30. 

Dr. Cahill, to the College Art Association, Cleveland, Ohio, 
"Criteria of Evaluation in Chinese Criticism of Painting." 
Attendance, 60. 

Dr. Pope, at the Antiques Forum, Williamsburg, Va., 
"Chinese Export Porcelain in Perspective." Attendance, 
395. 

Mr. Stern, at the Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, 
Calif., "The Korean Exhibition." Attendance, 350. 

Mr. Stern, to the Society for Asian Arts, San Francisco, 
Calif., "Hokusai." Attendance, 150. 

Dr. Cahill, at the Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass., 
"Two Concepts of Painting in China." Attendance, 60. 

Dr. Cahill, at the Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass., 
"The Theory of Literati Painting." Attendance, 60. 

Dr. Cahill, at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., 
"Yiian Dynasty Painting." Attendance, 12. 

Dr. Pope, to the American Oriental Society, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., "Notes on Saga of Porce- 
lain: How Old Is Koimari?" Attendance, 100. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, to the American Oriental Society, Uni- 
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., "Miniatures 
Related to the 'Demotte' Shah-nameh." Attendance, 75. 

Mr. Stern, at Yale University, New Haven, Conn. 
"Hokusai the Painter." Attendance, 110. 

Mr. Stern, to the Japan Society, New York City, "Japanese 
Art, Visual Aspects." Attendance, 60. 

Dr. Pope, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va., 
"Temples of Angkor." Attendance, 175. 

Mr. Gettens, to the Eastern New York American Chemical 

Society, Top of the World Inn, Lake George, N.Y., 

"Adventures in Archaeological Chemistry." Attendance, 

50. 

the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi- 



Dr. Pope, in Europe, examined objects in museums and 
private collections as follows: London: British Museum, 
Percival David Foundation, Victoria and Albert Museum, 
and six private collections; Amsterdam: Museum for 
Asiatic Art and one private collection; The Hague: One 
private collection; Brussels: Musee du Cinquantenaire 
and Stoclet Collection; Athens: Benaki Museum; Rome: 
Istituto Italiano per il Medio ed Estremo Oriente; 
Venice: Oriental Museum; Lugano: Dubosc Collection 
and Vanotti Collection. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



137 



1958 
July 1-3. 



July 7. 

July 17-18. 

September 3-11. 
September 11. 

September 12. 

September 12. 

September 13-15. 
September 15. 

September 15-17. 

September 15-18. 



October 11-22. 



October 22. 

October 23-25. 
October 23-25. 



Mr. Stern, in New York City with Dr. George Switzer of the 
U. S. National Museum, examined the Vetlesen jade 
collection, and arranged for transportation as a gift to the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. Gettens, with Dr. Harold Plenderleith of the British 
Museum, London, England, visited the Mellon Institute, 
Pittsburgh, Pa., where Dr. Robert Feller showed them 
installations. 

Mr. Gettens, with Dr. Harold Plenderleith, attended the 
Seminar on Museum Science at the Winterthur Museum, 
Winterthur, Del. 

Dr. Cahill, in Aspen, Colo., attended the "Conference on 
Chinese Thought." 

Mr. V/enley, in Ann Arbor, Mich., conferred with the Freer 
Fund Committee, head of the art department, and editors 
at the University of Michigan. 

Dr. Ettinghauscn, in Baltimore, Md., examined Near East- 
ern manuscripts and miniatures in the Baltimore Museum 
of Art. 

Dr. Cahill, in Chicago, 111., examined Chinese paintings at 
the Art Institute of Chicago. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined objects at dealers. 

Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, Md., examined one Japanese sculp- 
ture in the Baltimore Museum of Art. 

Mr. Stern, in Ann Arbor, Mich., consulted with Doctoral 
Committee at the University of Michigan. 

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, Mass., attended a Seminar on Appli- 
cation of Science in Examination of Works of Art at the 
Museum of Fine Arts; participated in the ceremonies to 
honor Edward Waldo Forbes, director emeritus of the 
Fogg Art Museum, on his 85th birthday. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Cleveland, Ohio, examined Rajasthani 
miniatures belonging to G. K. Kanoria, Calcutta, India, 
exhibited in the Cleveland Museum of Art; examined 
Mughal, Rajasthani, and Pahari miniatures in a private 
collection; examined and photographed 4 Mughal minia- 
tures in the Cleveland Museum of Art; in Ann Arbor, 
Mich., examined 40 pieces of pottery in the Museum of 
Art, University of Michigan; examined 1 Persian manu- 
script and photographed 3 Persian miniatures in a private 
collection; in Detroit, Mich., examined 1 Indian miniature 
and 1 Egyptian ceremonial mace in the Detroit Institute 
of Art. 

Mr. Gettens and Miss Elisabeth H. West, in Upton, Long 
Island, N.Y., visited Brookhaven National Laboratory 
where technical matters were discussed with Dr. E. V. 
Sayre, and other members of the Chemistry Department. 

Dr. Pope, in New York City, examined 30 objects at dealers. 
Attended a meeting of the American Council of Learned 
Societies, Committee on Asia. 

Mr. Gettens, in Brooklyn, N.Y., attended a "Conference on 
Conservation" at the Brooklyn Museum. Served as 
a member of the ad hoc committee on Resolutions for 
Exploratory Conference on Conservation. 



138 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



1958 

November 1. 



November 3-4. 
November 8-11. 

November 20-26. 
December 8-10. 



1959 
February 1-24. 



February 11. 
February 16-26. 

February 16-27. 

February 18-20. 
March 17-22. 

April 8-12. 

April 8-14. 



Mrs. Usilton and Mrs. Hogenson, in Baltimore, Md., at- 
tended an all-day meeting of Regional Catalogers of 
Maryland, Virginia, and District of Columbia at the 
Peabody Institute. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, Md., examined 1 Christian- 
Arab dagger, 1 Turkish box, 1 Moroccan dagger, 4 
Indian manuscripts, and 10 Indian miniatures in the 
Walters Art Gallery; did research work in their library. 

Mr. Stern, in New York City, examined 141 objects at 
dealers. Looked at the collections of the Museum of 
Modern Art; examined 30 pieces of Japanese porcelain 
and 1 Japanese painting at the Metropolitan Museum 
of Art. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined 30 Chinese paint- 
ings in private collections, and 88 objects at dealers. 

Dr. Cahill, in Boston and Cambridge, Mass., examined 86 
Chinese paintings in the Museum of Fine Arts, and 24 
Chinese paintings at the Fogg Art Museum. 

Mr. Stern, in Los Angeles, Calif., examined 50 Far Eastern 
objects in the Los Angeles County Museum, and 62 
objects in private collections; in San Diego, examined 60 
Japanese objects in the Museum of Art; in Santa Barbara, 
examined 145 Chinese and Japanese objects in the 
Museum of Art, and 215 Far Eastern objects in private 
collections; in San Francisco, examined 40 Indian paint- 
ings at the De Young Memorial Museum, 406 objects 
belonging to various dealers, and 457 Far Eastern objects 
in private collections. In Kansas City, examined 207 
Far Eastern objects in the William Bockhill Nelson 
Gallery of Art, and 35 Indian bronzes in a private col- 
lection. In Chicago, examined 43 Far Eastern objects 
in the Art Institute of Chicago, and 25 Japanese paintings 
in private collections. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, Md., examined objects in 
the Walters Art Gallery. 

Mr. Gettens, in Upton, Long Island, N.Y., continued the 
spectrographic analysis of Chinese bronzes begun last 
year at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. 

Miss Elisabeth H. West, in Upton, Long Island, N.Y., 
continued the spectrographic analysis of Chinese bronzes 
begun last year at the Brookhaven National Laborato^3^ 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at 
dealers. 

Dr. Cahill, in Cambridge, Mass., examined 12 Far Eastern 
paintings at the Fogg Art Museum, and 41 paintings in 
private collections; in Boston, examined 17 paintings at 
the Museum of Fine Arts. 

Dr. Pope, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended a meeting of the 
American Oriental Society; examined 100 objects in the 
University Museum of Anthropology. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended a meeting 
of the American Oriental Society; examined 155 Persian 
objects and 20 transparencies of Persian miniatures at a 
special exhibition in the Museum of the Near East. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 139 

1959 

April 15-17. Mr. Stern, in New Haven, Conn., examined 40 Japanese 

prints and 50 Japanese paintings at the Yale University 
Art Museum; in New Yorli City, examined 160 objects 
belonging to dealers. 

April 24-29. Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended meetings of the 

American Council of Learned Societies, Joint Committee 
on the Award of Fellowships; examined 136 Far Eastern 
objects belonging to dealers. 

April 30- May 1. Mr. Stern, in New York City, examined 35 objects belong- 

ing to dealers. 

May 8. Dr. Pope, in Charlottesville, Va., examined 4 Chinese 

paintings and 15 pieces of Chinese pottery in a private 
collection. 

May 12-18. Dr. Pope, in New York City, attended meetings of the 

American Council of Learned Societies, Committee on 
Asia; examined a number of objects in the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art; in Boston, Mass., presided at meetings 
of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group at the Museum of 
Fine Arts. 

May 23-30. Mr. Stern, in Cambridge, Mass., conferred with Robert 

Treat Paine, Jr., at the Fogg Art Museum, and Prof. 
James N. Plumer of the University of Michigan; in New 
York City, examined 170 objects belonging to dealers, 
and 52 objects in two museums. 

May 23. Mr. Gettens, in Lake George, N.Y., attended meetings of 

the Eastern New York American Chemical Society. 

June 1-4. Mr. Gettens, in Pittsburgh, Pa., attended meetings of the 

American Association of Museums. He presided as 
chairman of the Temporary Committee of the Inter- 
national Institute for the Conservation of Museum 
Objects, at a meeting for the purpose of forming the 
American Group. 

Mr. Gettens left for Europe on June 14, 1959, to attend meetings 
of the International Council of Museums in Copenhagen and Stock- 
holm, and en route, to consult with colleagues and visit collections in 
Scotland, England, and Belgium. 

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a wide variety 
of peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held 
honorary posts, and received recognitions. 

On June 9, 1959, the Gallery cooperated with the Dumbarton Oaks 
Research Library and Collection, Trustees for Harvard University, 
in sponsoring a performance of Gagaku^ the musicians and dancers 
of the Imperial Japanese Household. This ancient company made 
its first journey outside of Japan, thanks to the interest and influence 
of Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, to perform before the 
United Nations in New York. A 2-week schedule followed under 
the auspices of the New York City Ballet Company ; and it was the 
generosity of the latter organization that made possible the single ap- 
pearance in Washington. Over 500 invited guests attended the 
production in the gardens of Dumbarton Oaks. 



140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The Freer Gallery of Art again participated in the Wellesley-Vassar 
Washington Summer Intern Program designed for students inter- 
ested in obtaining rounded experience in the general operation and 
purposes of a gallery, and in broadening familiarity with the field of 
art in general. Miss Nancy Orbison, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, 
N.Y., served as our volunteer for this program during the summer 
of 1959. 

Respectfully submitted. 

A. G. Wenley, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Air Museum 

Sir : I have the honor to submit tlie following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1959: 

On September 6, 1958, President Eisenhower signed the bill (S. 
1958), originally introduced by Senator Clinton P. Anderson and 
passed by the 85th Congress, authorizing and directing the Regents 
of the Smithsonian Institution to prepare plans, including drawings 
and specifications, for the construction of a suitable building for a 
National Air Museum to be located on the site bounded by Fourth and 
Seventh Streets SW., Independence Avenue, and Jefferson Drive. 
Thus, with the passage of this act (Public Law 85-935), another 
step forward has been taken toward the provision of adequate housing 
for the National Air Museum. The architectural firm of Harbeson, 
Hough, Livingston & Larson, of Philadelphia, Pa., is making prelim- 
inary studies and an estimate of planning costs for the building. 

A number of significant accessions were received. Among these 
were the first recovered nose cone from outer space, a replica of the 
Jupiter C rocket and satellite Explorer I, a recovered data capsule 
from outer space, some original documents of the early experiments 
in rocketry by Dr. Robert H. Goddard, and a Curtiss- Wright Jr. 
airplane. 

Considerable progress was made in the improvement and prepara- 
tion of storage and restoration facilities. 

Plans for a new exhibit in the Aircraft Building were approved, 
and construction will begin this fall. It is expected that the new 
exhibit will be opened in the spring of 1960. 

Information service in the form of technical, historical, and bio- 
graphical information pertaining to the development of aviation, 
furnished to Government agencies, schools, research workers, authors, 
students, and the public, increased in scope and in volume during the 
year. Many useful acquisitions to the Museum's library, reference, 
and photograpliic files were received. 

New staff members reporting for duty include Kenneth E. Newland, 
curator; Robert Meyer, junior curator; and Robert Wood, museum 
aide. 

Walter M. Male, associate curator, has been assigned to Suitland, 
Md., as operations manager in charge of the Museum's restoration 
program. 

141 



142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

ADVISORY BOARD 

Although no meetings of the Advisory Board were held during the 
year, the members have been consulted from time to tune on important 
museum activities. One member of the Board, Grover C. Loening, 
gave the Lester D. Gardner Lecture in Washington, under the spon- 
sorship of the National Air Museum. 

SPECIAL EVENTS 

Several notable presentation ceremonies were held during the year. 
Outstanding was the presentation of the Jupiter C rocket and Ex- 
plorer I satellite by Secretary of the Army Wilber M. Brucker, on 
January 31, 1959, the anniversary date of the placing of the first 
American satellite into orbit. Other special ceremonies included the 
presentation of a recovered data capsule by Gen. Bernard Schriever, 
U.S. Air Force ; a working model of the Vanguard satellite, presented 
by Dr. John P. Hagen of NASA ; and the first recovered nose cone, 
presented by Secretary of the Army Wilber M. Brucker. In each in- 
stance Dr. Carmichael accepted the gift for the Museum with ap- 
propriate remarks. 

The Director attended the World Congress of Flight at Las Vegas, 
Nev., April 12-18, and from there proceeded to the National Aviation 
Educational Council held at Riverside, Calif., April 19-20, 1959. 

The head curator and historian, Paul E. Garber, represented the 
Museum at a number of events identified with aviation history. These 
included the Vanguard satellite anniversary banquet; the annual 
meeting of the American Helicopter Society; the National Rocket 
Club annual banquet; the annual meeting of the Early Birds; and 
the National Postage Stamp Show. He delivered 13 lectures during 
the year and conducted 6 special tours of the Musemn for groups of 
military visitors. He also participated in a number of television and 
radio programs during the year and paid visits to Hanmiondsport, 
New York, and St. Louis on Museum business. 

Both the Director and head curator were appointed by the National 
Aeronautic Association as members of the committee to select the 
annual recipient of the National Frank G. Brewer Award for Aviation 
Education. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS 

The aircraft, engines, and other aviation equipment scheduled for 
display in the new exhibit for the Aircraft Building are being cleaned, 
repaired, and made ready for exhibition. 

A general cleaning and renovation of exhibits and some minor re- 
pairs were undertaken. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 143 

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION 

A small office has been provided at the Suitland storage facility, and 
a paint and spray booth is under construction. A fabric department 
and document room are in process of planning. Additional machine 
tools and equipment have been acquired. Most of the aircraft and en- 
gines m the Aircraft Building have been moved to Suitland and are 
undergoing cleaning, repair, and preparation for storage or exhibition. 

In anticipation of the restoration program which lies ahead in 
preparation for the new building, the Director has visited many air- 
craft factories and has received assurances of cooperation from the 
manufacturers by way of providing us with technical data, lending 
mechanics to assist in restoration and to advise on methods of display. 

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 

The National Air Museum has served many Government depart- 
ments during the year. Among these were the Department of Justice 
in connection with patent litigation, the Voice of America, the De- 
partment of the Air Force, and the Department of the Navy. 

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES 

Providing information to the public continues as a very active and 
growing function of the Museum. For example, telephone calls dur- 
ing the year requesting historical, technical, or biographical informa- 
tion on the development of aviation numbered more than 700 from 
Government agencies and more than 1,400 from other sources. Corre- 
spondence is averaging around 100 letters a week. Approximately 
19,000 leaflets were distributed during the year, in addition to some 
1,100 photographs and drawings. 

The Museum continues to serve aircraft manufacturers, airlines, 
publishers, authors, schools and colleges, and many individual stu- 
dents, teachers, and research workers. 

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Many useful and valuable additions to the reference files, photo- 
graphic files, and library of the Museum were received during the 
year. These records and documents are helpful to the Museum staff 
in providing information service, authenticating data, and for 
research. 

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in 
providing this material is sincerely appreciated : 

AiB Force, Department of the, Aib Force MusEtTM, Wright-Patterson Air 
Force Base, Ohio: Negatives of flight of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne 
Morrow Lindbergh in the Lockheed Sirius seaplane Tingmissartog, 1929. AiR 
University, Maxwell Field, Ala.: Pamphlets of USAF Historical Studies 
No. 98. 



144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Aemy, Depaktment of the, Infobmation Office, U.S. Militauy Academy, West 
Point, N.Y. : Photograph "Cenotaph at Post Cemetery," dedicated to Lt. 
Thomas Selfridge. Public Information Office, Militaby District of Wash- 
ington, Gravelly Point, Va. : Pictorial record and articles relating to Wright- 
Selfridge flight. Office op the Chief of Infobmation, Washington, D.C. : 
Tape recording of the presentation ceremony of the Explorer I. Photograph 
of Explorer I. 

Artists and Writers Press, Inc., New York, N.Y. (Caroline Ungemah) : The 
Story of Flight— A Giant Golden Book. 

Bausch & Lome Optical Co., Rochester, N.Y. : Copies of booklet "Reprint of First 
Exhibition of the Aeronautic Society of New York," at Morris Park, New York 
City, November 3, 1908. 

Beech Aircraft Corp., Wichita, Kans. : A collection of photographs and 3-view 
drawings of Beech aircraft. 

Boeing Airplane Co., Washington, D.C: Photographs of Boeing 707 jetplane. 

Brick, Mrs. Kay, Norwood, N.J. : OflBcial programs of the Women's Transconti- 
nental Races. 

Bronson, C. L.. Lookout Mountain, Tenn. : Photographs of Glenn H. Curtiss and 
Curtiss airplanes. 

Bbown, Maj. Kimbbough S., USAF, Bedford, Mass. : A copy of his recent book 
"Von Richthofen and the Flying Circus." 

BuEKE, Justin J., Dubuque, Iowa: Notarized statement and supporting docu- 
ments relating to and describing the first installation of navigation lights on 
military airplanes, Ellington Field, Tex., 1918. 

Caffrey, Francis J., Liverpool, N.Y. : A collection of pamphlets and material 
pertaining to aircraft and flight operations. 

Canadaib Limited, Montreal, Canada : A collection of photographs and descrip- 
tive literature on Canadian aircraft. 

Casey, Louis S., Washington, D.C. : A collection of handbooks pertaining to 
Consolidated PBY-5, Pratt and Whitney Twin Wasp series, and Twin Wasp 
C3 series. 

Cessna Aircraft Co., Wichita, Kans. : A collection of photographs and a geneal- 
ogy chart of Cessna aircraft. Photograph of Clyde V. Cessna and Dwayne L. 
Wallace, 1954. Three- view drawings of Cessna aircraft as follows : 30.5 A, 
B, and C; 321; 140A; 170A; 120; 140; H-OOl ; DC-6; CW-6 ; C-106A; 
FC-1 ; C-165 ; T-37 ; LC-126 ; 170 ; 172 ; 175 ; 180 ; 182 ; 310 B and C ; T-50 ; 
Monoplane ; Gobel Special ; and Glider. 

Cohen, Comdr. Albert M., USNR, Retired, Wynnewood, Pa.: A collection of 
photographs re : Brest, France, and vicinity, U.S. Navy Aviation Section, WWI. 

Cooke, David C, Valley Stream, N.Y. : A copy of his book "Bomber Planes That 
Made History." 

Cornish, J. J., 3d, Mississippi State University, State College, Miss. : A copy of 
his article "The Flight of Seeds." 

Dearborn Historical Museum, Dearborn, Mich. : Booklet entitled "Tin Goose." 

Deutsches Museum, Munchen, Germany : Fabric section duplicating the color 
scheme from the Fokker D-VII in possession of Deutsches Museum. 

Eastern Airlines, New York, N.Y. : Photostats from Fokker Catalog re : Fokker 
Universal and Super Universal aircraft. 

Emmons, Conant, Washington, D.C. : Four glass negatives of Wright Type "A" 
airplane at Fort Myer, 1909. 

Esso Export Corp., New York, N.Y. ; A collection of magazines (bound volumes) : 
Flight, The Aeroplane, and Aviation Week. 

Esso Standard Oil Co., W. H. Kjeppel, New York, N.Y. : A collection of refer- 
ence material on Curtiss H-16 flying boat. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 145 

Ferey Service, Inc., Pontiac, Mich. : Drawings of Stinson aircraft models with 
the exception of models 108 and L-5. 

Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. : Blueprints of Wilford Gyroseaplane. 

Froyd, Mrs. Shirley B., Pasadena, Calif. : Newspaper and magazine clippings 
on aviation, period 1925-27. 

Goodwin, Garland O., San Diego, Calif. : Drawing of Montgomery glider of 1883. 

Griffenhagen, George, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. : A collection 
of timetables for various airlines. 

Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp., Bethpage, N.Y. : A collection of specifi- 
cations, brochures, and photographs of Grumman "Gulfstream" aircraft. 
Pilots' handbooks for Model F3F, and Erection and Maintenance manual for 
the F3F-1 aircraft. 

Halsey, Miss Marion S., Washington, D.C. : Two aircraft identification booklets, 

Herrick, Mrs. Girard P., New York, N.Y. : A collection of materials of the late 
Girard P. Herrick, Records of Invention; reference books ; "Story of the Heli- 
copter" ; and engineers' handbooks. 

Hill, James N. B., Boston, Mass. : Booklet entitled "Kites and Exi)eriments in 
Aerial Photographs." 

IIixsoN & .JoRGENSEN, INC., Los Angcles, Calif. : Lithographs, Leach "Heritage of 
the Air" series, copy proofs 1 through 5. 

Hutchinson, Roland V., Birmingham, Mich. : A collection of photographs of 
first DH-4 brought to the United States from England. Donated to NAM 
via A. V, Verville. 

Jet Pioneers Association, c/o General Electric Co., West Lynn, Mass. : 
Leather-bound looseleaf binder containing photographs of the Jet Pioneers of 
U.S.A. 

Kallir, Otto, New York, N.Y. : Roll of poster paper 30 feet in length on which is 
recorded by Kronfeld his important glider flights. 

Lee, Fred B., c/o Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp., Washington, D.C. : Three 
books, Aeronautical Annual for 1895, 1896, and 1897. Three separate volumes. 

Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif. : A collection of photographs and 3- 
view drawings of Lockheed Sirius, reference and historical information on 
the aircraft. 

Masunage, Kanosuke, Ushio Shobo Publishing Co., Tokyo, Japan: A collec- 
tion of photographs of Japanese and captured American aircraft : Army type 
99 trainer, type 98 light bomber, Navy type 96 carrier fighter, Douglas DC-5, 
Boeing B-17E, Douglas A-20A, and Brewster F2A-2 "Buffalo." 

McCoy, John T., New York, N.Y. : Two paintings (reproductions). The Wright 
Brothers at Fort Myer, Va., July 30, 1909 ; and Eugene Ely taking off from 
the U.S.S. Pennsylvania, January 18, 1911. 

McDonnell Aircraft Corp., St. Louis, Mo. : Two photocopies of 3-view drawing 
of McDonnell FH-1 Phantom. 

Mikesh, Capt. Robert C, APO 994, San Francisco, Calif.: Color film of kite 
festival held in Japan. 

Miller, Rear Adm. H. B., USN, Retired, New York, N.Y. : Collection of photo- 
graphs of operational use of Curtiss F90-2. 

MuNSON, H. A., Charlottesville, Va. : Booklet entitled "Santos-Dumont, Father of 
Aviation." 

National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Langley Field Laboratory, 
Va. : Reference material. 

National Broadcasting Co., New York, N.Y. : Transcript of Paul E. Garber's 
talk on his recollections of the Postal Aviation Service. 

Navy, Department of the, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D.C. : A col- 
lection of photographs of historic aircraft and aviation personages. Verville 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Aircraft Co.'s brochures on the Verville Air CJoach and Vervllle Sports Training 
Plane. Drawings of HS2L and JN4D aircraft. Drawings of US-D4, Army 
Curtiss Racer, 1922, Navy Curtiss Seaplane Racer R2C-2, and PW-1, 

Nelson, Chaei.es P., Lynn, Mass. : Typed copy of story of cruise of the ZR-1 
Shenandoah from Lakehurst, N.J., to St. Louis, Mo., and return. 

Pan American World Aikways System, New York, N.Y. : Photostats of Lind- 
bergh's survey report (Lockheed Sirius), background information on survey 
for Pan American. Photographs of Lindbergh's arrival at Belem. 

Putnam's, G. P., Sons, New York, N.Y. : Book entitled "Fighting Planes That 
Made History," by David Cooke. 

Royal Canadian Air Force, S/L R. Wood, Trenton, Ontario, Canada : Plans of 
aircraft (3 sets of 8 plans) of RCAF types Fairchild 71, A. W. Atlas, DeHavil- 
land-60, Vickers Bedette, Curtiss Canuck, Curtiss HS2L, Avro 504K, and A. W. 
Siskin. 

ScHWEizEB AiECBAFT CoEP., Elmira, N.Y. : A collection of photographs and 3-view 
drawings of Schweizer 2-22C, 1-23G, and 1-30 experimental light plane. 

Sikorsky Aircraft Co., Stratford, Conn. : A collection of photographs and speci- 
fications on Sikorsky S-38, S-39, S-40, S-51, S-52, S-55, S-56, S-58, S-62, and 
H-18. Drawings and photographs of PS-3 (S-38). Photographs of Sikorsky 
HSS-2 Amphibious Helicopter. 

Submarine Library, Groton, Conn. : A collection of drawings and photographs of 
Loening amphibians. 

Thompson, Mrs. R., Huntington, Long Island, N.Y. : Photographs and magazine 
article, "Cross Country Flight of 'Yankee Doodle,' " by Harry J. Tucker, and 
"Wings for Our Business." Two 8- by 10-inch photographs of Lockheed Vega 
Yankee Doodle. 

Thompson Products, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio: Lithographs of Hubbell paintings. 
Various sets representing events or periods in aviation history. 

Victoria and Albert Museum, South Kensington, London, England: January 
1959 issue of Journal of the Royal Society of Arts. 

Weaver, Capt. T. C, Fairborn, Ohio : A collection of photographs of racing 
aircraft. 

ACCESSIONS 

Additions to the National aeronautical collections received and re- 
corded during the fiscal year 1959 totaled 341 specimens in 56 separate 
accessions from 38 sources. 

Those from Government departments are entered as transfers; 
others were received as gifts except as noted. 

AiB Force, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : The "Pioneer-I" exhibit 
consisting of a scale model of a Douglas Thor ballistic missile and related 
electrical and mechanical display units, illustrating the first attempts made 
in August and October 1958 to place a man-made object in an orbit around 
the moon. Although not successful, useful information was obtained about 
the radiation belt surrounding the earth. (NAM 1023.) The "Data-Sphere," 
an instrumented capsule containing a tape recorder and other apparatus for 
receiving and preserving data during the launching, climb, and descent of 
a Thor ballistic missile. This one is the first of the series to be recovered. 
(NAM 1043.) AiB Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: 
A German Nagler-Rolz helicopter, type NR-54 V2. An early example of a 
one-man helicopter, it was developed during World War II. On each of its 
two rotor blades an 8-hp. Argus engine with a 23-inch wooden propeller is 
mounted, about midway, to revolve the rotor. (NAM 1019.) A group of 11 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 147 

scale models, 1 : 48 size, of Beechcraft, Boeiug, Curtiss, North American, and 
Stearman airplanes used by the U.S. Air Force or its predecessor units. 
(NAM 1029.) The DM-1 delta- winged glider designed by Alexander Lippisch 
in Germany during World War II as a primary step in the development of 
a supersonic ain^lane. This is one of the first configurations of the delta 
wing. (NAM 1041.) 

Aemy, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : Nose cone of the Jupiter "C" 
missile. The first object recovered after returning from outer space. This 
cone was featured in a television broadcast by President Eisenhower on 
November 7, 1957. (NAM 1020.) The Jupiter "C" missile, a duplicate of the 
vehicle produced by the Chrysler Corp. which on January 31, 1958, launched 
the Explorer I. This was America's first satellite to be propelled into orbit. 
This vehicle was presented to the Museum on the first anniversary of that 
historic occasion. (NAM 1031.) 

Beech Ahjcraft Cobp., Wichita Kans. : Scale models, 1 : 16 size, of two airplanes 
developed by Walter Beech and his associates, the Travelair biplane of 1926 
(NAJI 1013) and the Travelair Mystery S of 1929 (NASI 1003). 

Black, Mes. Palma, Bakersville, Calif. : A piece of the gas cell fabric of the 
U.S. naval airship Shenandoah, 1925. (NAM 1009.) 

British 0\'erseas Airways Corp., London, England : A scale model, 1 : 72 size, 
of the original Comet-I jet airliner which inaugurated jet-engined civil trans- 
port service in 1952. ( NAM 1035. ) 

Califobnia Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif. : A WAC Corporal 
missile and base. This is a short-range ballistic missile, built by the Firestone 
Tire & Rubber Co. and in current use by the U.S. Army. (NAM 1006.) 

Cessna Aircraft Co., Wichita, Kans. : A scale model, 1 :40 size, of the Cessna 
T-37 2-place, twin-jet airplane now in service with the U.S. Air Force for 
primary training. (NAM 1002.) 

Chance Vought Aircraft, Inc., Dallas, Tex. : A scale model, 1 :16 size, of the 
U.S. Navy carrier-based F8U-1 "Crusader." This type of airplane, with a 
speed of more than 1,000 m.p.h., was the subject for the Robert J. Collier 
Trophy award in 1957 and earned for the Chance Vought corporation the 
Navy Bureau of Aeronautics' first Certificate of Merit. (NAM 1037.) 

CiGAL, Aldo L., Southwick, Mass.: A 1:16 size model of the Pratt & Whitney 
J57 jet engine (loan). (NAM 1025.) 

CoNVAiR, Division of General Dynamics Corp., San Diego, Calif. : A scale model, 
1 :48 size, of the Consolidated- Vultee "Convair-liner" 240, the first post- World 
War II commercial transport developed by this corporation, 1947. It is a 
twin-engined, medium-range, 40-passenger transport. Also a 1 :16 size model 
of the Convair XFY-1 "Pogo Stick," an experimental vertically rising delta- 
wing fighter developed for the U.S. Navy. It made its first free vertical 
takeoff and landing on August 2, 1954, and 3 months later made the conver- 
sion from vertical to horizontal flight and back to vertical for a tail-first 
landing. The original XFT-1 is being reserved for the National Air Museum 
by the Department of the Navy. ( NAM 1004. ) 

Davies, The Honorable Joseph (deceased), Washington, D.C: An autographed 
photograph of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell as a captain in the U.S. Army, 1915. 
(NAM 999.) 

DoLAN, CoL. Carl H., Greenwich, Conn. : A collection of objects associated with 
the aeronautical interests and career of this member of the Early Birds and 
the Lafayette Escadrille. Included are military maps, instruments, and me- 
mentos of the renowned American ace Maj. Raoul Lufbery. (NAM 1027.) 

Doolxttle, Gen. James H., San Francisco, Calif. : A uniform worn during World 
War II by the donor. (NAM 1044.) 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

GiLPATRic, Mrs. M. S., New York, N.Y. : A trophy cup presented to her son, Guy 
Gilpatric, in 1912 for establishing an American 2-man altitude record of 4,665 
feet. Ttiis was made in a Deperdussin monoplane at Dominguez Field, Los 
Angeles, when he was 16 years old. (NAM 1034.) 

GoDDARD, Mrs. Robert H., Worcester, Mass. : A set of 20 volumes of typed tran- 
scriptions and photographs recording the pioneer research in rocketir by Dr. 
Robert H. Goddard for the period 1921-41. (NAM 1000.) A selection of per- 
sonal memorabilia of Dr. Goddard, including his purse, two penknives, his 
watch, fraternity pin, and the original manuscript of his work "Methods of 
Reaching High Altitudes." (NAM 1008.) A group of seven notebooks in 
which Dr. Goddard entered results of his experiments. (NAM 1021.) The 
academic hood received by Dr. Goddard with his degree of doctor of science 
from Clark University, June 2, 1945. (NAM 1024.) Equipment used by Dr. 
Goddard in his research, including laboratory apparatus and parts of his 
liquid-fueled rockets. (NAM 1033.) An oil painting of Dr. Goddard pictured 
at the moment when his 1926 rocket was fired. The artist, Robert Fawcett, 
was commissioned for this painting by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insur- 
ance Co. (NAM 1052.) 

Gregort, Mrs. Louis Franklin, Shelby, Miss. : Photograph of the Sikorsky 
XR-4 helicopter with Orville "Wright, Igor Sikorsky, and Gen. F. Gregory, 
autographed by these men. (NAM 1045.) 

Hanson, Richard, Washington, D.C. : A German World War I airspeed indicator. 
(NAM 1028.) 

HuBBELL, Chari^s, Cleveland, Ohio : A scale model, 1 :16 size, of the Wright 
Co. "Baby Grand" Gordon Bennett Race airplane of 1910 (purchase), (NAM 
1050.) 

Kelly, Howard A., Jr., Baltimore, Md. : Gloves worn by Hubert Latham while 
flying over Baltimore in an Antoinette airplane, November 7, 1910, and a 
note written by this famous French pilot. (NAM 1014.) 

Kelsey, Walter, Tarrytown, N.Y. : A clock and three instrument panel instruc- 
tion plates from a SPAD XIII airplane of World War I. (NAM 1005.) 

Lahm, Gen. Frank P., USAF, Retired, Huron, Ohio: A medal honoring General 
Lahm, sculptured by O. L. Schmitz for the Medal of the Month founded by 
Miss Felicity Buranelli. (NAM 1001.) 

Martin, Miss Della, Los Angeles, Calif. : The personal memorabilia of Glenn 
L. Martin, consisting of scale models and paintings of Martin aircraft, trophies, 
medals and awards, certificates of membership, photographs, and drawings. 
(NAM 1046.) 

Maytag, Robert B., Newton, Iowa : A Curtiss-Wright Junior airplane, a 2-place 
high-wing monoplane, with a pusher engine, popular as a personal aircraft 
during the 1930's. ( NAM 1042. ) 

National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Langley Field, Va. : A super- 
sonic high-speed propeller designed for use on the McDonnell F-88 aircraft. 
( NAM 1010. ) ( See also NAM 1054. ) 

Navy, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : A catapult model, type XO-h57, 
showing the mechanism, above and below deck, for operating the steam- 
powered catapults currently used for launching airplanes from carriers. 
(NAM 1007.) Scale models of a ZPN airship, HUP-2 helicopter, and HSI^l 
helicopter. (NAM 1011.) A selection of aerodynamic models of aircraft 
and missiles showing recent developments tested at the David Taylor Model 
Basin. (NAM 1030.) A Sparrow-II guided missile. (NAM 1041.) A radio 
removed from the wreck of the U.S. naval airship Shenandoah, 1925. (NAM 
1047.) An interplane strut from the NC-4 flying boat which made the first 
flight across the Atlantic Ocean, Rockaway, Long Island, to Plymouth, Eng- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 149 

land, with intermediate stops, via tiie Azores, May 8-31, 1919. (NAM 1048.) 
A wing rib of the type used in this aircraft. (NAM 1049.) Naval Reseaeoh 
Laboratoet (with the National Aeronautics and Space Agency), Washing- 
ton, D.C. : An operable replica of the Vanguard-I satellite embodying a light- 
activated sound-producing mechanism. This was presented on March 17, 1959, 
the first anniversary of the launching of this satellite, which, it is predicted, 
will remain in orbit for 200 years or more. ( NAM 1054. ) 

Nevin, Robert S., Denver, Colo. : A scale model, 1 :16 size, of the Wright Co. 
HS airplane, 1915 (purchase). (NAM 1053.) 

Newcomb, Charles, Trappe, Md. : A scale model, 1 :10 size, of the Wright Co. 
"D" airplanes, 1912 (purchase.) (NAM 1017.) 

North American Aviation, Inc., Columbus, Ohio : A scale model, 1 :16 size, 
of the U.S. Navy A3 J Vigilante, in current use as a carrier-based fighter-recon- 
naissance airplane. (NAM 1038.) 

Sefton, Thomas W., San Diego, Calif. : An aircraft radio antenna fairlead of 
the type used with radio equipment in U.S. Navy aircraft during World 
War II. (NAM 1018.) 

Shipton, David H., Delavan, 111. : A scale model, 1 :48 size, of the Curtiss- 
Wright "Condor" 18-passenger, twin-engined biplane transport of 1934. 
(NAM 1026.) 

Simmons, Mrs. O. G., and daughters, Arlington, Va. : A trophy cup commemo- 
rating the first airmail flight in the State of New Jersey, made by O. G. Sim- 
mons in a Wright type B twin-float seaplane flying between Amboy and 
South Amboy, July 4, 1912. ( NAM 1039. ) 

Smithsonian Institution, National Air Museum, Washington, D.C. : A plaster 
copy of the original sculpture of the Aero Club of America gold medal. Cast 
made in the Museum shop by Joseph A. Atchinson from original lent by 
Robert L. Perry whose grandfather, A. Holland Forbes, was president in 
1910 of that club, founded in 1905 (purchase). (NAM 1032.) U.S. National 
Museum, Division of Military History, Washington, D.C. : Two aviator 
helmets with inserted radio earphones, used in World War I. (NAM 1051.) 

Tracy, Daniel, Lakewood, Ohio : A scale model, 1 :16 size, of the Verville- 
Sperry Racer, winner of the Pulitzer Trophy, 1024 (purchase). (NAM 
1016.) 

United Aircraft Corp., Sikorsky Division, Stratford, Conn. : Scale models, 
1 :50 size, of the S-58 and H-37 helicopters. ( NAM 1015. ) 

Wheeler, Leslie, Binghamton, N.Y. : A model airplane engine of the Rogers 
type, 1932-33. (NAM 1036.) 

Wilson, The Honorable Robert, San Diego, Calif. : The original holograph 
manuscript of "Soaring Flight," by John J. Montgomery, noted pioneer of 
gliding in America ; written about 1895 (loan). (NAM 1012.) 

Winzen Research, Inc., Minneapolis, Minn. : A certificate awarded by the 
Federation Aeronautique Internationale to Maj. David G. Simons for estab- 
lishing a world altitude record of 30,942 meters (nearly 102,000 feet) with a 
balloon made by the donors. The ascent was made over Minnesota in con- 
nection with the U.S. Air Force Aero-Medical Field Laboratory's high-altitude 
research program, identified by code name "Manhigh-II." The aeronaut was 
aloft for 32 hours. ( NAM 1022. ) 

Respectfully submitted. 

Philip S. Hopkins, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Zoological Park 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959 : 

EXHIBITS 

Following the plan announced last year, the National Zoological 
Park made good progress tliis year toward its goal of emphasizing the 
exhibition of North American animals and acquired several species 
native to this continent that had not been seen in the collection for 
many years. 

The most publicized event of the year was the transportation of a 
herd of 14 reindeer and 1 caribou from Kotzebue, north of the Arctic 
Circle, to Washington, D.C. The animals, comprising a gift from the 
new State of Alaska to President Eisenhower, arrived here in time to 
take part in the aimual "Pageant of Peace" held at Christmas on the 
Mall. J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director of the National Zoological 
Park, and Charles Thomas, senior keeper of the large-mammal divi- 
sion, flew to Alaska and took part in the actual capture of the reindeer, 
which came from a herd that is under the management of the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. Without a single loss 
the animals were flown to Anchorage, taken by the Alaska Railroad 
to Seward, shipped by the Alaska Steamship Co.'s SS Iliamna (cap- 
tained by "Blackie" Selig) to Seattle, and then brought across country 
by Consolidated Freightways. They arrived in Washington on Decem- 
ber 11 and were formally presented by Eoger Ernst, Assistant Secre- 
tary of the Department of the Interior, to Homer Gruenther, Presiden- 
tial Assistant, representing the Chief Executive and the people of the 
United States. The herd has been established in the Zoo with the 
addition of four fawns. 

Mr. Grimmer also undertook an expedition to British Guiana, under 
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Geo- 
graphic Society. His purpose was to observe hoatzins in their native 
habitat. These strange birds, which somewhat resemble pheasants, 
occur along the northern coast of South America and have never been 
exhibited in any American zoo. His studies have convinced him that 
imder proper conditions these birds can be kept in captivity. A 

150 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 151 

list of live animals collected by Mr. Grimmer in British Guiana 
follows : 

22 Cook's tree boas 7 tawny-bellied seed-eaters 

Vine snake 2 Swainson's grackles 

2 yellow tegus 2 rice grosbeaks 

Ameiva lizard 3 shiny cowbirds 

Anaconda 3 lesser yellow finches 

British Guiana green lizard 5 red-breasted marshbirds 

Whipsnake 7 ground doves 

4 common jaganas 12 hoatzins 

2 black-throated cardinals 2 agoutis 

In addition, a small collection of museum specimens of animals 
indigenous to the Abary River region was added to the accessions of 
the U.S. National Museum. 

GIFTS 

The Rocky Momitain goat had not been represented in the Zoo for 
many years, and therefore the gift from the Montana State Fish and 
Game Commission of a trio of these spectacular annuals was much 
appreciated. From the same source came also a herd of five prong- 
horn antelopes. 

Ross E. Wilson, \dce president and general manager of the Fire- 
stone Rubber Co., presented a fine West African leopard from Harbel, 
Liberia. 

Dr. Hubert Fringes, of Pennsylvania State University, who has been 
doing research on the care of albatrosses in captivity, presented a 
group of two Laysan albatrosses and three of the black- footed vari- 
ety. Thanks to the discovery of the need for salt in the diet of sea 
birds, these birds, which usually do not do well in captivity, are thriv- 
ing. Another Laysan albatross was added to the group as a gift from 
Dr. W. J. Carr, of Bucknell University. 

The Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior 
continued to cooperate in the procurement of desirable species of 
North American animals and birds. During the past year this agency 
has secured for the Zoo a caribou from Alaska, a northern porcupine, 
a white-fronted goose, 2 horned grebes, 10 greater scaups, 2 redheads, 
and 2 wood ducks. In June the Service offered the Zoo a polar 
bear cub that had been captured in Alaska. Owing to the fact that 
the Zoo had had to absorb a Wage Board increase in salaries, funds 
were embarrassingly low in the last quarter of the fiscal year, and 
there was no money to pay the cub's air transportation to Washington. 
Station WMAL-TV volunteered to have the little bear flown to the 
Zoo, where it has already become a great favorite with the visiting 
public. 

536008—60 11 



152 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



Legend for Map of National Zoological Park 



1. Hooved stock. 


19. Camels. 


2. Equines. 


20. Small mammals. 


3. Llamas. 


21. Virginia deer. 


4. Deer. 


22. Elk. 


5. Deer. 


23. Deer. 


6. Deer. 


24. Wolves. 


7. Flight cage. 


2.5. Foxes. 


8. Elephants. 


26. Sea-lions. 


9. Eagle cage. 


27. Beavers. 


10. Black swans. 


28. Raccoons. 


11. Flight cage. 


29. Prairie dogs. 


12. Condor cage. 


30. Bears. 


13. Birds. 


31. Antelopes. 


14. Crane yards. 


32. Reptiles. 


15. Great flightless birds. 


33. Small cats. 


16. Pheasants. 


34. Monkeys. 


17. Flight cage. 


35. Lions. 


18. Mountain goats and sheep. 


36. Waterfowl. 


A. Hay barn. 


G. Heating plant. 


B. Service roads. 


H. Shop. 


C. Parking areas. 


I. Restrooms, police, first aid. 


D. Incinerators. 


J. Restaurant. 


E. Clock. 


K. Bridle paths. 


F. Garage. 





SECRETARY'S REPORT 



153 



The Maryland State Game Commission gave the Zoo a pair of 
wild turkeys, which have hatched four eggs. 

The Maine State Game Department at Milo trapped a fisher for 
the National Zoo. This is the rarest and most valuable of American 
fur-bearing anunals and had not been exhibited here for more than 
30 years. 

The Zoo is fortunate in having among its friends members of the 
Armed Forces who, when stationed abroad, are always searching for 
rare and interesting animals. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the Navy 
Medical Research Unit in Taipei, Taiwan, sent a number of speci- 
mens, including a family of three pangolins — father, mother, and 
baby. Lt. Col. Robert Traub, stationed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, 
sent two species of squirrels as well as a number of particularly in- 
teresting ref)tiles. Other animals collected by these men are included 
in the following list of gifts of special interest : 



Allen, George J., Salt Lake City, 
Utah, 2 junglefowl. 

Aquarium, Department of Commerce, 
Washington, D.C., American egret. 

Beatty, Charles, Washington, D.C., 
spiuy-tailed iguana. 

Carter, Dr. Hill, Washington, D.C., 
red-shouldered hawk. 

Clark, W. B., Alexandria, Va., 2 
sparrow hawks. 

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md., 4 
five-lined skrnks, 4 American toads, 
2 mud turtles, snapping turtle. 

Farrel, Mrs. D. M., Cabin John, Md., 
Philippine macaque, Javan ma- 
caque and hybrid offspring. 

Grayson, William C, Upperville, Va., 
12 wood ducks. 

Greeson, L. E., Arlington, Va., 2 white- 
tailed antelope squirrels. 

Grimes, Mrs. E. D., Washington, D.C., 
yellow and blue macaw. 

Haack, Miss Mildred A., Washington, 
D.C., African lovebird. 

Hillmau, Eric, Washington, D.C., dia- 
mondback terrapin. 

Housholder, Bob, Phoenix, Ariz., 
Texas red wolf. 

Hubbard, Scott, Washington, D.C., 
kinkajou. 

Jones, Mrs. Beatrice. Chevy Chase, 
Md., sulphur-crested toucan. 

Keeler, W., Falls Church, Va., 7 species 
of local snakes. 



Kilham, Dr. Lawrence, Bethesda, 
Md., African crocodile (hatched 
from egg taken near Murchison 
Falls, Uranda). 

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E. Taipei, Taiwan, 
4 pangolins, 5 Formosan civets of 
2 species, 2 Formosan badgers, 2 
Formosan flying squirrels, Malayan 
fishing owl, 7 Fonnosan red-billed 
pies, 6 many-banded kraits, 13 Tai- 
wan cobras, 3 habus, 2 palm vipers, 
2 Pope's pit vipers, 11 greater In- 
dian rat snakes, 3 Formosan rat 
snakes, 10 water snakes, 11 pit 
vipers. 

Lichtenecker, Dr. Karl E., Austrian 
Embassy, Washington, D.C., collec- 
tion of 18 species of European 
snakes and lizards. 

Long Fence Co., Washington, D.C., 
peahen. 

Long, Gerald, Falls Church, Va., Vir- 
ginia deer. 

McHale, J. P., Chicago, 111., 7 Reeves's 
turtles. 

Metzler, John, Arlington, Va., red- 
tailed hawk. 

Moorhead, Thornton, Washington, 
D.C., Formosan macaque. 

Newill, Dr. D. S., Connellsville, Pa., 
5 red junglefowl. 

Nottingham, Mrs. F., Indian Head, 
Md., golden pheasant. 

Posey, Calvert, R., Nanjemoy, Md., 
great horned owl. 



154 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Sawyers, Mrs. Thomas R., Arlington, 
Va., double yellow-headed Amazon 
parrot. 

Sicre, Jose Gomez, Washington, D.C., 

2 agoutis. 

Styve, Mrs. Lauritz, Arlington, Va., 

short-eared owl. 
Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 

3 Reeves's turtles. 

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lum- 
pur, Malaya, small-clawed otter, 2 
striped ground squirrels, 2 Dre- 
m m y s squirrels, racket-tailed 
drongo, rufous-collared kingfisher, 



orange-throated barbet, pygmy 
owlet, 2 monitor lizards, flying liz- 
ard, skink lizard, mangrove snake, 
fat-cheeked water snake, elephant 
trunk snake, Wagler viper, flying 
snake, 4 geckos of 2 species, 9 liz- 
ards of 5 different species. 

Woodward & Lothrop, Washington, 
D.C., 7 Humboldt's penguins, 2 fal- 
low deer. 

Young, Robert, Wheaton, Md., 3 dia- 
mondback terrapins. 

Xanten, William, Jr., Washington, 
D.C., collection of Florida reptiles. 



PURCHASES 

The first Dall slieep ever to be exhibited in an American zoo were 
added to the collection this past year. The young animals are females, 
and prospects are bright for the addition of a ram within the next 
few months. 

A great rarity purchased this year was a pair of Pallas's cats wliich 
had never before been exhibited in the collection. Other purchases 
of interest were : 



2 serval cats 

2 pig-tailed macaques 

3 pygmy marmosets 
Celebes crested ape 

3 cottontop marmosets 
Canada lynx 
2 capybaras 
2 mute swans 
1 gray hornbill 



Spectacled owl 

Jackson's hornbill 

Bellbird 

Scarlet cock-of-the-rock 

2 black-and-white turacos 

Andean condor 

2 Bateleur eagles 

4 species of sunbirds 

1 green jay 



EXCHANGES 
By the judicious use of exchanges made with other zoos and with 

individuals, the following animals were obtained : 

Audubon Park Zoo, New Orleans, La., 
2 anhingas, 2 least bitterns. 

Buffalo Zoo, Buffalo, N.Y., 2 milk 
snakes, 2 African soft-shelled 
turtles. 

Calcutta Zoo, Calcutta, India, 5 In- 
dian squirrels, 3 lesser pandas. 

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, wol- 
verine, Canada lynx, 2 golden 
eagles, 2 pine martens. 

Campbell, E., Detroit, Mich., 4 Ba- 
hama boas. 

Chicago Zoological Park, Brookfield, 
111., ibex, 3 dingoes, 2 sitatimgas. 

Cleveland Zoo, Cleveland, Ohio, 2 
mouseWrds. 



Freiheit, Clayton, Buffalo, N.Y., axo- 
lotl, 3 rhinoceros vipers, 2 pre- 
hensile-tailed vipers, 2 African 
soft-shelled tortoises. 

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., a collec- 
tion of 9 species of southwestern 
reptiles. 

New York Zoological Park, New York, 
N.Y., 5 rhinoceros vipers, 10 puff 
adders (born in New York Zoo). 

Riverside Park Zoo, Scottsbluff, 
Nebr., American badger. 

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., 
Cape hunting dog, 6 boat-tailed 
grackles, 2 Hildebrandt's francolins, 
7 Erckel's francolins, 2 fulvous tree 
ducks, 7 banded plovers. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 155 

DEPOSITS 

The Zoo accepts for deposit only those animals that will make 
attractive additions to the collection, and even in such instances lack of 
proper housing often makes it necessary to refuse animals offered 
for temporary exhibition. 

The offer of the National Aquarium Society of Washington to set up 
and maintain an exhibition of tropical fishes in the aquarium section 
of the reptile house was a welcome one. Members of the society have 
contributed tanks, filters, aerators, and a collection of fishes. The fishes 
belong to individual members of the Aquarium Society and will be 
returned to them when a new exhibition of different species is installed. 
This rotating or changing display should be a very attractive one 
for visitors. 

For many years the National Zoological Park has exhibited a female 
Przewalski's wild horse, a species extinct in the wild and represented 
only by a few individuals in zoos in various parts of the world. Al- 
though the animal was assumed to be beyond breeding age, she had 
had foals in the past. She was mated with a stallion obtained on de- 
posit from the Catskill Game Farm in New York, but without results, 
and on June 6 the mare died at the ripe old age of 33. 

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS 

One of the signs that an animal is doing well in captivity is its 
ability to reproduce its kind, and, as the following list shows, the num- 
ber of mamLmals, birds, and reptiles born in the National Zoological 
Park during the year is gratifying. 

The outstanding birth of the year was that of a female wisent, which 
has been duly registered with the Wisent Society of Europe. These 
animals are now so scarce that careful records are kept of all that are 
born or die. Unfortunately the mother died 6 weeks after the baby 
was born ; the young one, however, is thriving. 

Other "firsts" for this Zoo included Cape hunting dogs, a striped 
hyena, a galago, a squirrel monkey, and an owl monkey, all of which 
are noteworthy by any zoo's standards. 

Because of their curious life history, the hatching of Surinam toads 
in captivity is always of interest. For the second year one of the Zoo's 
females laid eggs ; the male carefully embedded them in her back, and 
35 little toads eventually emerged. 

Zoo officials were gratified when the young pair of hippopotamuses 
purchased in 1956 and 1957 produced their first young one. These 
were bought as replacements for the old pair. Bongo and Pinky, which 
had been here since 1914 and 1939, respectively. The old pair are 
still here ; Bongo sired seven young ones by his first mate. Mom, who 
came to the Zoo in 1911 and died in 1930. Several young ones were 
born to Pinky, but she raised none of them. The new female, Arusha, 



156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

seems to be a good mother, and it is hoped the baby will be the first 
of a long line such as the Zoo had many years ago. 

MAMMALS 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Aotus trivirgatus Douroucouli monkey 

Axis axis Axis deer 

Bison bonasus Wisent or European bison 

Canis antarcticus Dingo 

Cebus albifrons Capuchin monkey 

Cebus sp__ Capuchin monkey 

Cercocebus fuliginosus Sooty mangabey 

Cercopithecus neglectus DeBrazza's monkey 

Cervus canadensis American elk 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 

Cervus nippon Sika deer 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 

Cynomys ludovicianus Prairie dog 

[Brown fallow deer 

Damadama jWhite fallow deer 

Equus burchelli hoehmi Grant's zebra 

Galago senegalensis Galago 

Genetta genetta neumanii Genet 

Hippopota mus amphibius Hippopotamus 

Hyaena hyaena Striped hyena 

Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus Hybrid gibbon 

Hylobates lar X H. agilis X H. lar Hybrid gibbon 

pileatus. 

Hypsiprymnodon moschatus Rat kangaroo 7 

Hystrix galeata African porcupine _ 2 

Jaculus aegyptius Egyptian gerbil 3 

Lama glama Llama 4 

Lama pacos Alpaca 1 

Lycaon pictus Cape hunting dog 5 

Macaca mulalta Rhesus monkey 1 

Macaca philippensis X M. irus Hybrid macaque 1 

Macaca sylvanus Barbary ape 3 

Meriones unguiculatus Mongolian gerbil 6 

Nasua narica Coatimundi 3 

Odocoileus virginanus Virginia deer 5 

Pachyuromys duprasi Fat-tailed gerbil 16 

Pan satyrus Chimpanzee 1 

Panthera leo Lion 4 

Rangifer tarandus Reindeer 7 

Saimiri sciureus Squirrel monkey 1 

Thalarcios maritimus X Ursus midden- Hybrid bear (2d generation) 3 

dorfi. 

Ursus horribilis Grizzly bear 3 

Vulpesfulva Red fox 4 

BIRDS 

Aix sponsa Wood duck 22 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 4 

Chrysolophus pictus Golden pheasant 1 

Columba livia Homing pigeon 1 

Cygnus cygnus Whooper swan 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



157 



Scientific name Common name 

Dendrocygna autumnalis Black-bellied tree duck 

Dendronessa galericulaia Mandarin duck 

Gallus gallus Red junglefowl 

Gennaeus leucomelanus Nepal pheasant 

Larus dominicanus Kelp gull 

Meleagris gallopavo Wild turkey 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass parakeet 

Nycticorax nycticorax hoaclli Black-crowned night heron . 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 



Number 
3 
3 
5 
3 
2 

- 10 
6 



REPTILES 

Ancistrodon mokeson Copperhead 11 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle 18 

Chrysemys picta Painted turtle 4 

Clemmys insculpta Wood turtle 2 

Crotalus atrox Western diamond-backed rattle- 10 

snake. 

Egernia whitei White's skink 2 

Natrix insularum Island water snake 41 

Matrix rhombifera Diamondback water snake 35 

Pipa pipa Surinam toad., 35 

Pseudemys sp Red-lined turtle 25 

Sistrurus catenatus Massasauga 10 

Sistrurus milliaris Pygmy rattlesnake 8 

Terrapene Carolina Box turtle 3 

Thamnophis sirtalis Garter snake 1 

ARTHROPODS 

Pandinus imperator Giant black African scorpion 10 

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent, 
upon the diversity and scope of its taxonomic representation through- 
out the whole of the Animal Kingdom. The National Zoological Park 
has enjoyed some measure of success in efforts to add representative 
species belonging to little-known or absent families. 

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,286. This in- 
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings. 
Several minor species which are best displayed in large numbers do 
not have an individual count, merely being listed as "many." 

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION 



Glass 


Orders 


Families 


Species or 
subspecies 


Individuals 


Mammals _- - __ _ 


13 
19 
4 
2 
4 
4 
1 


49 
74 
25 
12 
11 
5 
1 


234 

309 

187 

23 

20 

6 

1 


628 


Birds .. -- - 


891 


Reptiles. _ _ 


619 


Amphibians __ _____ 


135 


Fish 


86 


Arthropods . __ 


Many 
Many 


MoUusks- __ 




Total 


47 


177 


780 


2, 384+ 







158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1959 

MAMMALS 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

MONOTRBMATA 

Tachyglossidae: 

Echidna, or spiny anteater Tachyglossus aculeatus 1 



MARSUPIALIA 

Didelphidae: 

Opossum Didelphis marsupialis 1 

Dasyuridae: 

Tasmanian devil Sarcophilus harrisii 2 

Phalangeridae: 

Vulpine opossum Trichosurus vulpecula 1 

Lesser flying phalanger Petaurus norfolcensis 3 

Phascolomidae: 

Hairy-nosed wombat Lasiorhinus latifrons 2 

Mainland wombat Wombatus hirsutus 1 

Macropodidae: 

Red kangaroo Macropus rufus 1 

Rat kangaroo Hypsiprymnodon moschatus 9 

INSECTIVORA 

Erinaceidae: 

European hedgehog Erinaceus europaeus 1 

Soricidae: 

Short-tailed shrew Blarina brevicauda 1 

PRIMATES 

Lorisidae: 

Slow loris Nydicebus coucang 1 

Thick-tailed galago Galago crassicaudatus 2 

Cebidae : 

Night monkey Aotus trivirgatus 6 

Red uakari Cacajao rubicundus 1 

Brown capuchin monkey 1 

White-throated capuchin [ Cebus capucinus 8 

Capuchin monkey J 

Squirrel monkey Saimiri sciureus 7 

Colombian black spider monkey Ateles fusciceps 1 

Spider monkey Ateles geoffroyi 2 

Woolly monkey Lagothrix pygmaea 1 

CalUthricidae: 

Cottontop marmoset Callithrix jacchus 3 

Golden lion tamarin Leontocebus rosalia 1 

Black-and-red tamarin Saquinus nigricollis 1 

Cercopithecidae: 

Toque, or bonnet monke}' Macaca sinica 3 

Pig-tailed monkey Macaca nemestrina 1 

Javan macaque Macaca irus 1 

Crab-eating macaque Macaca irus 1 

Philippine macaque Macaca philippinensis 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 159 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Cercopithecidae — Continued 

Macaque, hybrid Macaca philippinensis X Macaca 2 

irus. 

Rhesus monkey Macaca mulatta 3 

Chinese macaque Macaca lasiotis 1 

Formosan monkey Macaca cyclopis 6 

Red-faced macaque Macaca speciosa 1 

Barbary ape Macaca sylvanus 11 

Moor macaque Macaca maur us 2 

Gray-cheeked mangabey Cercocehus albigena 1 

Agile mangabey Cercocehus galeritus 1 

Golden-bellied mangabey Cercocehus galeritus 1 

Red-crowned mangabey Cercocehus torquatus 2 

Sooty mangabey Cercocehus fuliginosus 5 

Crested mangabey Cercocehus aterrimus 2 

Black-crested mangabey Cercocehus aterrimus 3 

Golden baboon Papio cynocephalus 

Hamadryas baboon Papio hamadryas 

Chacma baboon Papio comatus 

Mandrill Mandrillus sphinx 

Gelada baboon Theropithecus gelada 

Vervet guenon Cercopithecus aethiops 

Green guenon Cercopithecus aethiops 2 

Guenon, hybrid Cercopithecus aethiops X C. a. 2 

pygerythrus. 

Moustached monkey Cercopithecus cephus 2 

Diana monkey Cercopithecus diana 

Roloway monkey Cercopithecus diana 

Preussi's guenon Cercopithecus I'hoesti 

DeBrazza's guenon Cercopithecus neglectus 

White-nosed guenon Cercopithecus nictitans 

Lesser white-nosed guenon Cercopithecus nictitans 

Allen's monkey Allenopithecus nigroviridis 

Spectacled langur Presbytis phayrei 

Pongidae: 

Hoolock Hylobates hoolock 

White-handed gibbon Hylobates lar 

Wau-wau gibbon Hylobates nioloch 

Gibbon, hybrid Hylobates agilis X H. lar 

Gibbon, hybrid Hylobates lar X /f. sp 3 

Sumatran orangutan Pongo pygmaeus 2 

Bornean orangutan Pongo pygmaeus 1 

Chimpanzee Pan satyrus 4 

Gorilla Gorilla gorilla 2 

EDENTATA 

Myrmecophagidae : 

Giant anteater Myrmecophaga tridactyla 1 

Bradypodidae: 

Two-toed sloth Choloepus didactylus 5 

LAGOMORPHA 

Leporidae: 
Domestic rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus 2 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

RODENTIA 
Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Sciuridae: 

Gray squirrel (black) Sciurus carolinensis, melanistic 1 

phase. 

Gray squirrel (albino) Sciurus carolinensis 2 

Fox squirrel Sciurus niger 1 

Giant Indian squirrel Raiufa indica 4 

Asiatic squirrel Callosciurus nigrovittatus 1 

Formosan tree squirrel Callosciurus eryihraeus 5 

Asiatic forest squirrel Callosciurus caniceps 4 

Striped ground squirrel Lariscus insignis 2 

Long-nosed squirrel Dremomys rufigenis 1 

Woodchuck, or groundhog Alarmola monax 1 

Prairie-dog Cynomys ludovicianus Many 

White-tailed squirrel Citellus leucurus 2 

Eastern chipmunk Tamias striatus 1 

Eastern chipmunk, albino Tamias striatus 1 

Red-and- white flying squirrel Petaurista albirufus 1 

Formosan flying squirrel Petaurista grandis 1 

Eastern flying squirrel Glaucomys volans 15 

Cricetidae: 

Vesper rat Nyctomys sumichrasti 2 

Hamster Mesocricetus auratus 3 

Lesser Egyptian gerbil Gerbillus gerbillus 1 

Fat-tailed gerbil Pachyuromys duprasi 19 

Hairy-tailed jird Sekeetamys calurus 1 

Jird Meriones sp 8 

Muridae: 

Egyptian spiny mouse Acomys cahirinus 24 

Egyptian spiny mouse Acomys dimidiatus Many 

Slender-tailed cloud rat Phloeomys cumingii 3 

Gliridae: 

African dormouse Graphiurus murinus 1 

Dipodidae: 

Lesser or desert jerboa Jaculus jaculus 1 

Four-toed jerboa Allactaga tetradactyla 6 

Hystricidae: 

Malay porcupine Acanthion brachyura 1 

African porcupine Hystrix galeata 4 

Erethizontidae: 

Prehensile-tailed porcupine Coendou prehensilis 1 

Caviidae: 

Guinea-pig Cavia porcellus 30 

Hydrochoeridae: 

Capybara Hydrochoerus hydrochoeris 2 

Dinomyidae: 

Red agouti Dinomys branickii 2 

Dasyproctidae: 

Agouti Dasyprocta prymnolopha 1 

Speckled agouti Dasyprocta punctata 1 

Chinchillidae: 

Peruvian viscaccia Lagidium viscaccia 1 

Chinchilla Chinchilla chinchilla 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 161 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 
Capromyidae: 

Coypu Myocastor coypus 1 

CARNIVORA 

Canidae: 

Dingo Cams antarcticus 4 

Timber wolf Cams lupus 2 

Texas red wolf Cams niger 2 

Red fox Vulpes fulva 2 

Platinum fox Vulpes fulva 2 

Fennec Fennecus zerda 2 

Gray fox Urocyon cinereoargenteus 1 

Raccoon dog Nydereutes procyonoides 1 

Cape hunting dog Lycaon pictus 4 

Big-eared fox Otocyon megaloiis 3 

Ursidae: 

Spectacled bear Tremardos ornatus 1 

Himalayan bear Selenardos thibetanus 2 

Japanese black bear Selenardos thibetanus 1 

Korean bear Selenardos thibetanus 2 

Black bear Euardos americanus 2 

Alaskan brown bear Ursus sp 1 

European brown bear Ursus ardos 3 

Iranian brown bear Ursus ardos 2 

Alaskan Peninsula bear Ursus gyas 2 

Grizzly bear Ursus horribilis 3 

Sitka brown bear Ursxis sitkensis 2 

Polar bear Thalardos maritimus 2 

Bear, hybrid Thalardos maritimus X Ursus 6 

middendorffi. 

Malay sun bear Helardos malayanus 3 

Procyonidae: 

Raccoon Procyon loior 4 

Red coatimundi Nasua nasua 2 

Coatimundi Nasua narica 14 

Kiukajou Potos fiavus 4 

Olingo Bassaricyon gabbi 2 

Lesser panda Ailurus fulgens 3 

Mustelidae: 

Short-tailed weasel Mustela erminea 1 

Eastern weasel Mustela frenata 1 

Ferret, albino Mustela eversmanni 1 

Marten Maries americana 1 

Fisher Maries pennanti 1 

Tayra Tayra barbara 1 

Grison Galidis vittaia 1 

Wolverine Gulo luscus 1 

American badger Taxidea iaxus 1 

Golden-bellied badger Helidis moschata 2 

Common skunk Mephitis mephitis 3 

California spotted skunk Spilogale gracilis 1 

African small-clawed otter Luira cinerea 1 

South American flat-tailed otter Pteronura brasiliensis 1 

Malayan small-clawed otter Amblonyx cinerea 1 



162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Viverridae: 

Genet Genetta genelta 5 

Formosaii spotted civet Viverricula indica 2 

Ground civet Viverra tangalunga 1 

Linsang Prionodon linsang 1 

Formosan masked civet Paguma larvata 4 

Binturong Arctictis binfurong 1 

African gray mongoose Ilerpestes ichneumon 1 

Water civet Atilax paludinosus 3 

White-tailed civet Ichneumia albicauda 2 

Cryptoproctidae: 

Fossa Cryptoproda ferox 1 

Hyaenidae: 

Spotted hyena Crocuta crocuta 2 

Striped hyena Hyaena hyaena 2 

Felidae: 

Jungle cat Felis chaus 1 

Pallas's cat Felis manul 2 

Serval cat Felis serval 3 

Ocelot Felis pardalis 2 

Margay cat Felis wiedii 2 

Pampas cat Felis pajeros 1 

Puma Felis concolor 5 

Lynx Lynx canadensis 2 

Bobcat Lynx rufus 2 

Leopard Panthera pardus 4 

Black leopard Panthera pardus 2 

Lion Panthera leo 3 

Bengal tiger Panthera tigris 4 

Jaguar Panthera onca 1 

Snow leopard Panthera uncia 3 

Cheetah Ocinonyx jubata 2 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Sea-lion Zalophus californianus 1 

Patagonian sea-lion Oiaria flavescens 2 

TUBULIDENTATA 

Ory cteropodidae : 

Aardvark, or antbear Orycteropus afer 1 



PROBOSCIDEA 

Elephantidae: 

African elephant Loxodonta africana 1 

Indian elephant Elephas maximus 3 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Mongolian wild horse Equus przewalskii 1 

Kiang, or Asiatic wild ass Equus kiang 1 

Burro, or donkey Equus asinus 1 

Grant's zebra Equus burchelli 5 

Grevy's zebra Eqmis grevyi 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 163 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Tapiridae: 

Brazilian tapir Tapirus terrestris 1 

Rhinocerotidae : 

White, or square-lipped, rhinoceros. Ceratotherium simum 2 

ARTIODACTYLA 

Tayassuidae: 

Collared peccary Pecari tajacu 2 

Ilippopotamidae : 

Hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphihius 5 

Pygmy hippopotamus Choeropsis liberiensis 3 

Camelidae: 

Llama Lama glama 9 

Guanaco Lama guanicoe 3 

Alpaca Lama pacos 4 

Bactrian camel Camelus hadrianus 2 

Cervidae: 

Brown fallow deer Dama dama 7 

White fallow deer Dama dama^. 6 

Axis deer Axis axis 4 

Red deer Cervus elaphus 7 

American elk Cervus canadensis 4 

Sika deer Cervus nippon 4 

Pfere David's deer Elaphurus davidianus 1 

Virginia deer Odocoileus virginianus 5 

Costa Rican deer Odocoileus virginianus 1 

Reindeer Rangifer tarandus^. 14 

Forest caribou Rangifer caribou 1 

Giraffidae: 

Okapi Okapia johnstoni 1 

Nubian giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis 4 

Antilocapridae: 

Pronghorn Antilocapra americana 5 

Bovidae: 

Sitatunga Tragelaphus spekii 2 

Eland Taurotragus oryx 2 

Anoa Anoa depressicornis 3 

Zebu Bos indicus 1 

Yak Poephagus grunniens 2 

Gaur Bibos gaurus 4 

African buffalo Syncerus caffer 1 

American bison Bison bison 2 

Wisent, or European bison Bison bonasus 2 

Black-fronted duiker Cephalophus nigrifrons 1 

Saiga antelope Saiga tatarica 1 

Rocky mountain goat Oreamnos americanus^. 2 

Tahr Hemitragus jemlahicus 2 

Ibex Capra ibex 1 

Blue sheep Pseudois nayaur 1 

Aoudad Ammotragua lervia 3 

Dall sheep Ovis dalli 2 

Mouflon Ovis musimon 1 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



BIRDS 



SPHENISCIFORMES 



Family and common name Scientific name Number 
Spheniscidae: 

King penguin Aptenodytes patagonica 4 

Adelie penguin Pygoscelis adeliae 5 

STRUTHIONIFORME8 

Struthionidae: 

Ostrich Struthio camelus 1 



RHE1FORME8 

Rheidae: 

Rhea Rhea americana 

CASXTARIIFOEMES 

Dromiceiidae: 

Emu Dromiceius novaehollandiae. 



PROCELLARIIFORMES 

Diomedeidae: 

Black-footed albatross Diomedea nigripes 2 

Laysan albatross Diomedea immuiahilis 1 

PELICANIFORMES 

Phoenicopteridae: 

Chilean flamingo Phoenicopterus chilensis 2 

Cuban flamingo Phoenicopterus ruber 2 

Old World flamingo Phoenicopterus antiquorum 1 

Pelecanidae: 

Rose-colored pelican Pelecanus onocrotalus 2 

White pelican Pelecanus erythrorhynchus 3 

Brown pelican Pelecanus occidentalis 1 

Phalacrocoracidae: 

Double-crested cormorant. Phalacrocorax auritus 1 

Anhingidae: 

Snakebird Anhinga anhinga 2 

CICONIIFORMES 

Ardeidae: 

Great white heron Ardea occidentalis 3 

Louisiana heron Hydranassa tricolor 4 

American egret Casmerodius albus 4 

Snowy egret Leucophoyx thula 2 

Black-crowned night heron Nycticorax nycticorax 7 

Least bittern Ixobrychus exilis 2 

American egret Herodias egretta 1 

Tiger bittern Tigrisoma lineatum 4 

Cochleariidae: 

Boat-billed heron Cochlearius cochlearius 1 

Balaenicipitidae: 

Shoebill Balaeniceps rex 1 

Ciconiidae: 

Marabou stork Leptoptilos crumeniferus 1 

Lesser adjutant Leptoptilos javanicus 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 165 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Threskiornithidae : 

Glossy ibis Plegadis falcinellus 2 

Eastern glossy ibis Plegadis falcinellus 2 

Black-headed ibis Threskiornis melanocephala 1 

Roseate spoonbill Ajaia ajaja 2 

White ibis Eudocimus albus 2 

Scarlet ibis Eudocimus ruber 2 

ANSEBIFORMES 

Anhimidae: 

Crested screamer Chauna torquata 4 

Anatidae: 

Mute swan Cygnus olor 2 

Whooper swan Olor cygnus 2 

Whistling swan Olor columbianus 4 

Trumpeter swan Olor buccinator 2 

Cape Barren goose Cereopsis novaehollandiae 1 

Australian pied goose Anseranas semipalmaia 1 

Black swan Chenopis atrata 3 

Blue goose Chen caerulescens 6 

Lesser snow goose Chen hyperborea 2 

Greater snow goose Chen atlantica 6 

Ross's goose Chen rossii , 4 

Indian bar-headed goose Eulabeia indica 5 

White-fronted goose Anser albifrons 3 

Emperor goose Philacte canagica 2 

Canada goose \ 

Lesser Canada goose I r, . j ■ o. 

„ , ,. > Branta canadensis 34 

Cackhng goose 

White-cheeked goose J 

Upland goose Chloephaga leucoptera 1 

Canada goose X Blue goose, hybrid. Branta canadensis X Chen caeru- 2 

lescens. 

Black-bellied tree duck Dendrocygna autumnalis 8 

Fulvous tree duck Dendrocygna bicolor 2 

Comb duck Sarkidiornis melanota 1 

European shell duck Tadorna tadorna 1 

Mallard duck, albino Anas platyrhynchos 1 

Mallard duck Anas platyrhynchos 26 

Mallard duck X American pintail Anas platyrhynchos X Anas acuta. 1 

duck, hybrid. 

Indian spotted-bill duck Anas poecilorhyncha-^ 1 

Black duck Anas rubripes 2 

Pintail duck Anas acuta 1 

Baldpate Mareca americana 13 

Wood duck Aix sponsa 34 

Wood duck X Red-headed duck, Aix sponsa X Aythya americana- 1 

hybrid. 

Mandarin duck Dendronessa galericulata 29 

Rosy-billed pochard Metopiana peposaca 1 

Red-crested pochard Netta rufina 1 

Canvasback duck Aythya valisineria 9 

Red-headed duck Aythya americana 11 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Anatidae — Continued 

Greater scaup duck Aythya marila 10 

Lesser scaup duck Aythya affinis 7 

FALCONIPORMES 

Cathartidae: 

Andean condor Vultur gryphus 1 

King vulture Sarcoramphus papa 1 

Black vulture Coragyps atratus 1 

Turkey vulture Cathartes aura 1 

Sagittariidae: 

Secretarybird Sagittarius serpentarius 2 

Accipitridae: 

Cayenne kite Odontriorchis palliatvs 1 

African yellow-billed kite Milvus migrans 2 

Brahminy kite Haliastur indus 1 

Buzzard eagle Buteo poecilochroxis 1 

Red-tailed hawk Buteo jamaicensis 5 

Swainson's hawk Buteo swainsoni 1 

Black- faced hawk Leucopternis melanops 1 

Guianan crested eagle Morphnus guianensis 1 

Harpy eagle Harpia harpy ja 1 

Golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos 1 

Monkey-eating eagle Piihecophaga jefferyi 1 

Bald eagle Haliaeetus leucocephalus 7 

Ruppell's vulture Gyps rueppellii 2 

White-backed vulture Pseudogyps africanus 1 

Bateleur eagle Terathopius ecaudatus 3 

Falconidae: 

Forest falcon Micrastur semitorquatus 2 

Chimango Milvago chimango 2 

South American caracara Polyborus plancus 3 

Audubon's caracara Polyborus cheriway 1 

Sparrow hawk Falco sparverius 6 

GALLIFORMES 

Megapodiidae: 

Brush turkej^ Alectura lathami 1 

Cracidae : 

Nocturnal curassow Noihocrax urumutum 1 

White-headed piping guan Pipile cumanensis 1 

Blue-cered curassow Crax alberti 2 

Wattled curassow Crax globulosa 2 

Panama curassow Crax panamensis 1 

Phasianidae: 

Erckel's francolin Francolinus erckeli 5 

Hildebrandt's francolin Francolinus hildebrandti 1 

Bobwhite Colinus virginianus 1 

Hungarian partridge Perdix perdix 2 

Japanese quail Coturnix coturnix 1 

Nepal pheasant Gennaeus leucomelamis 2 

Swinhoe's pheasant Gennaeus swinhoii 1 

Red junglefowl Gallus gallus 9 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 167 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Phasianidae — Continued 

Ring-necked pheasant Phasianus colchicus 4 

Ring-necked pheasant, albino Phasianus colchicus 1 

Reeves's pheasant Syrmaticus reevesi 2 

Lady Amherst pheasant Chrysolophus amherstiae 1 

Golden pheasant Chrysolophus pictv^ 5 

Peafowl Pavo cristatus 13 

Argus pheasant Argusianus argus 2 

Numididae: 

Vulturine guineaf owl Acryllium vulturinum 5 

Meleagrididae: 

Ocellated turkey Agriocharis ocellata 1 

Wild turkey Meleagris gallopavo 11 

Gruidae: 

Siberian crane Grus leucogeranus 1 

Demoiselle crane Anthropoides virgo 1 

Psophiidae: 

Trij mpeter Psophia crepitans 2 

Rallidae: 

Virginia rail Lallus limicola 1 

Black-and-white crake Laierallus leucopyrrh us 1 

South Pacific swamphen Borphyrio poliocephalus 1 

American coot Fulica americana 1 

Eurypygidae: 

Sun bittern Europyga helias 2 

Cariamidae: 

Cariama or seriama Cariama cristata 1 

CHAKADRIIFORMEB 

Jacanidae: 

Common jajana Jacana spinosa 3 

Haematopodidae: 

Oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus 2 

Stercorariidae: 

MacCormack's skua Catharacta maccormacki 4 

Charadriidae: 

Australian banded plover Zonifer tricolor 6 

South American lapwing Belonopterus cayermensis 1 

Killdeer Charadrius vociferus 1 

Recur virostridae: 

Black-necked stilt Himaniopus mexicanus 1 

Burhinidae: 

South American thick-knee Burhinus bistriatus 1 

Laridae: 

Ring-billed gull Larus delawarensis 2 

Kelp gull Larus dominicanus 2 

Laughing gull Larus atricilla 1 

Silver gull Larus novaehollandiae 12 

COLUMBIFOBMES 

Columbidae: 

Homing pigeon Columba livia 1 

Band-tailed pigeon Columba fasciata 2 

53660&— 60 12 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Columbidae — Continued 

Black-billed pigeon Columha nigrirostris 1 

Mourning dove Zenaidura macroura 3 

White-winged dove Zenaida asiaiica 1 

Ring-necked dove Streptopelia decaodo 7 

Blue-headed ring dove Streptopelia tranquebarica 2 

Diamond dove Geopelia cuneata 1 

Ground dove Columhigallina passerina 5 

Plain-breasted ground dove Columhigallina minuta 7 

Bleeding-heart dove Galliculumha luzonica 2 

Crowned pigeon Guura victoria 2 

PSITTACIFORMKS 

Psittacidae: 

Kea parrot Nestor notabilis 2 

Red lory Domicella garrula 1 

Banksian cockatoo Calyptorhynchus magnificus 1 

White cockatoo Kakatoe alba 2 

Solomon Islands cockatoo Kakatoe ducrops 1 

Sulphur-crested cockatoo Kakatoe galerita 5 

Bare-eyed cockatoo Kakatoe sanguinea 5 

Great red-crested cockatoo Kakatoe moluccensis 1 

Leadbeater's cockatoo Kakatoe leadbeateri 7 

Cockatiel Nymphicus hollandicus 3 

Yellow-and-blue macaw Ara araurauna 3 

Red-and-blue macaw Ara chloroptera 2 

Red-blue-and-yellow macaw Ara macao 2 

Petz's parakeet Aratinga canicularis 1 

Rusty-cheeked parrot Aratinga pertinax 2 

White-winged parakeet Brotogeris versicolurus 1 

Yellow-naped parrot Amazona auropalliata 4 

Finsch's parrot Amazona finschi 1 

Red-fronted parrot Amazona bodini 1 

Double yellow-headed parrot Amazona oratrix 3 

Red-shouldered parakeet Psittacula eupatria 1 

Moustached parakeet Psittacula fasciata 1 

Barraband's parakeet Polytelis swainsoni 1 

Rosy-faced lovebird Agapornis roseicollis 1 

Fischer's lovebird Agapornis fischeri 1 

Masked lovebird Agapornis personata 4 

Grass parakeet, or budgerigar Melopsittacus undulatus Many 

CUCULIFORMES 

Musophagidae: 

Purple turaco Tauraco persa 1 

South African turaco Tauraco corythaix 1 

Plantain-eater Crinifer africanus 1 

White-bellied go-away-bird Corythaixoides leucogaster 1 

Cuculidae: 

Koel Eudynamys scolopacea 1 

Roadrunner Geococcyx californianus 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 169 

STRIGIFORMES 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Tytonidae: 

Barn owl Tyto alba 1 

Strigidae: 

Screech owl Otus asio 2 

Great horned owl Bubo virginianus 5 

Colombian great horned owl Bubo virginianus 1 

Spectacled owl Pulsatrix perspicillata 1 

Malay fishing owl Kehipa ketupu 2 

Snowy owl Nyctea nydea 3 

Barred owl Strix varia 10 

COLIIFORME8 

Coliidae: 

Mousebird Colius striatus 2 



CORACIIFORMES 

Alcedinidae: 

Kookaburra Dacelo gigas 3 

Momotidae: 

Motmot Momotus lessoni 1 

Coraciidae: 

Lilac-breasted roller Coracias caudata 3 

Indian roller Coracias benghalensis 2 

Bucerotidae: 

Gray hornbill Tockus birostris 2 

Wreathed hornbill Aceros plicatus 1 

Pied hornbill Anthracoceros malabaricus 1 

Black-and-white casqued hornbill Bycanisies subcylindricus 2 

Black casqued hornbill Ceratogymna atrata 2 

Philippine hornbill Buceros hydrocorax 1 

Abyssinian ground hornbill Bucorvus abyssinicus 1 

PICIFORMBS 

Capitonidae: 

Asiatic great barbet Megalaima virens 1 

Asiatic red-fronted barbet Megalaima asiatica 1 

Toucan barbet Semnornis ramphastinus 2 

Ramphastidae: 

White-lined toucanet Aulacorhynchus alhivitlatus 3 

White-breasted toucan Ramphasios culminatus 1 

Sulphur-breasted toucan Ramphasios carinalus 3 

Swainson's toucan Ramphasios swainsoni 1 

Toco toucan Ramphasios loco 1 

Picidae: 

Scaly-bellied woodpecker Picus squamalus 2 

Golden-backed woodpecker Brachypternus benghalensis 2 

PASSERIFORMES 

Cotingidae: 

Naked-throated bellbird Chasm or hynchus nudicollis 1 

Orange cock-of-the-rock Rupicola rupicola 1 

Scarlet cock-of-the-rock Rupicola sanguinolenta 1 



170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Pipridae: 

Long-tailed manakin Chiroxiphia linearis 2 

Tyrannidae: 

Kiskadee flycatcher Pitangus sulphuratus 1 

Pittidae: 

Indian pitta Pitta brachyura.^ 2 

Alaudidae: 

Skylark Alauda arvensis 1 

Corvidae: 

Steller's jay Cyanocitta stelleri 4 

Magpie Pica pica 7 

Yellow-billed magpie Pica nuttalli 1 

Hunting crow Kitta chinensis 1 

Formosan red-billed pie Kitta caerulea 9 

Asiatic tree pie Crypsirina formosae 2 

Raven Corvus corax 1 

African white-neck crow Corvus albus 2 

Crow Corvus brachyrhynchos 2 

Indian crow Corvus insolens 2 

Inca jay Xanihoura yncas 2 

Cracticidae: 

White-backed piping crow Gymnorhina hypoleuca 1 

Paridae: 

Great tit Parus major 1 

Gray tit Parus major 3 

Red-headed tit Aegithaliscus concinnus 2 

Ptilonorhynchidae: 

Satin bowerbird Ptilonorhynchus violaceus 2 

Timaliidae: 

Tit babbler Yuhina flavicollis 3 

Indian scimitar babbler Pomatorhinus horsfieldii 1 

Rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler Pomatorhinus erythrogenys 1 

Black-headed sibia Heter aphasia capistrata 3 

Sittidae: 

Chestnut-bellied nuthatch Sitta castanea 4 

Pycnonotidae: 

Red-vented bulbul Pycnonotxis cafer 1 

White-cheeked bulbul Pycnonotus leucogenys 2 

Brown-eared bulbul Molpastes leucostis 3 

Turdidae: 

Bonaparte's thrush Turdus grayi 1 

Robin, albino Turdus migratorius 1 

Cliff chat Thamnolaea cinnamomeiventris 2 

Silver-eared mesia Mesia argentauris 4 

Muscicapidae: 

Veriter flycatcher Muscicapa thalassina 3 

Sturnidae: 

Jungle mynah Acridotheres tristis 1 

Burchell's glossy starling Lamprocolius purpureus 3 

Tri-colored starling Spreo auperbus 1 

Long-tailed glossy starling Lamprotornis caudatus 1 

Gray-headed mynah Sturnus malabaricus 1 

Starling Sturnus vulgaris 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 171 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Stu rnidae — Continued 

Rose-colored pastor Pastor roseus 1 

Lesser hill mynah Gracula religiosa 2 

Greater hill mynah Gracula religiosa 3 

Parulidae: 

Ovenbird Seiurus aurocapillus 1 

Ploceidae: 

Baya weaver Ploceus haya 5 

Vitelline masked weaver Ploceus vitellinus 3 

Red bishop weaver Euplectes orix 2 

Yellow-crowned bishop weaver Euplectes afra 4 

Giant whydah Diairopura procne 2 

Mahali weaver Ploceipasser mahali 1 

Java finch Padda oryzivora 14 

Cut-throat weaver finch Amadina fasciata 2 

White-headed nun Lonchura maja 7 

Lavender finch Estrilda coerulescens 2 

Red-eared waxbiil Estrilda astrild 1 

Common waxbiil Estrilda troglodytes 2 

Strawberry finch Estrilda amandava 8 

Zebra finch Poephila castanotis 20 

Gouldian finch Poephila gouldiae 1 

Nectariniidae: 

Variable sunbird Cinnyris venustus 2 

Beautiful sunbird Neciarinia pulchella 2 

Scarlet-chested sunbird Chalcomitra rubescens 2 

Golden-winged sunbird Drepanorhynchus reichenowii 2 

Zosteropidae: 

White-eye Zosterops palpebrosa 3 

Coerebidae: 

Blue honeycreeper Cyanerpes cyaneus 2 

Icteridae: 

Rice grackle Psomocolax oryzivora 1 

Boat-tailed grackle Cassidix mexicanus 5 

Swainson's grackle Holoquiscalus lugubris 2 

Shiny cowbird Molothrus bonariensis 4 

Red-breasted marshbird Leisies militaris 4 

Colombian red-eyed cowbird Tangavius armenti 1 

Purple grackle Quiscalus quiscula 1 

Giraud's oriole Icterus giraudi 1 

Troupial Icterus icterus 1 

Yellow-headed marshbird Agelaius icterocephalus 1 

Thraupidae: 

Crimson tanager Ramphocelus dimidiatus 1 

Yellow-rumped tauager Ramphocelus icteronotus 3 

Passerini's tanager Ramphocelus passerinii 1 

Black-and-white tanager Cissopis leveriana 2 

Fringillidae: 

Buff -throated saltator Saltator maximus 1 

Black-throated cardinal Paroaria gularis 3 

Brazilian cardinal Paroaria cucullata ] 

Dickcissel Spiza americana 7 

Evening grosbeak Hesperiphona vespertina 2 



172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 
Fringillidae — Continued 

Tawny-bellied seedeater Sporophila minuta 5 

European goldfinch X Canary, hy- Carduelis carduelis X Serinus ca- 1 

brid. narius. 

Song sparrow Melospiza melodia 1 

Black-throated cardinal Paroaria gularis 1 

Melodious grassquit Tiaris canora 6 

Rice grosbeak Oryzoborus crassirostris 1 

Lesser yellow finch Sicalis luieola 3 

REPTILES 

LORICATA 

Crocodylidae: 

African crocodile Crocodylus niloticus 2 

Broad-nosed crocodile Osteolaemus ietraspis 2 

Narrow-nosed crocodile Crocodylus cataphr actus 1 

Salt-water crocodile Crocodylus porosu^ 1 

American crocodile Crocodylus acuius 2 

Alligator Alligator mississipiensis 16 

Chinese alligator Alligator sinensis 2 

Caiman Caiman sclerops 9 

Gavial Tomistoma schlegeli 1 

SAURIA 

Gekkonidae: 

House gecko Gecko monarchus 2 

Gecko Tarentola mauritanica 1 

Giant gecko Gecko smilhi 1 

Giant gecko Gecko stentor 1 

Agamidae: 

Forest lizard Gonocephalus borneensis 1 

Forest lizard Gonocephalus grandis 1 

Flying lizard Draco quinquefasciata 1 

Chamaeleonidae : 

Meller's chameleon Chamaeleo melleri 3 

Flap-necked chameleon Chamaeleo dilepis--. 10 

Tguanidae: 

Common iguana Iguana iguana 3 

Carolina anole Anolis carolinensis Many 

Giant anole Anolis equestris 1 

Texas horned lizard Phrynosoma cornutum 12 

Western horned lizard Phrynosoma cornutum 2 

Fence lizard Sceloporus undulatus 3 

Spiny-tailed iguana Ctenosaurus nigra 1 

Desert iguana Dipsosaurus dorsalis 1 

Sonora spiny lizard Sceloporus clarki 2 

Southern prairie lizard Sceloporus undulatus 1 

Pine lizard Sceloporus undulatus 2 

Crevice spiny lizard Sceloporus poinsetti 2 

Leopard lizard Crotaphijtus wislizeni 2 

Collared lizard Crotaphytus collaris 1 

Western earless lizard Holbrookia maculata 2 

Ameiva lizard Ameiva ameiva 1 

British Guiana green lizard Centropyx striatus 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 173 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Scincidae: 

Mourning skink Egernia luctuosa 2 

White's skink Egernia whitei 8 

Greater five-lined skink Eumeces fasciaius 6 

Great Plains skink Eumeces obsoletus 1 

Four-lined skink Eumeces tetragrammus- 2 

Sand skink Scincus officinalis 7 

Stump-tailed lizard Trachysaurus rugosus 1 

Ground skink Lygosoma laterale 2 

Malayan skink Mabuya multifasciata 7 

Grerrhosauridae : 

Plated lizard Gerrhosaurus major 4 

Teiidae : 

Black tegu Tupinambis nigropundatus 1 

Yellow tegu Tupinambis teguixin 2 

Lacertidae: 

European green lizard Lacerta viridis 1 

Anguidae : 

Glass lizard Ophisaurus ventralis 3 

Southern alligator lizard Gerrhonotus muUicarinatus 1 

Alligator lizard Gerrhonotus muUicarinatus 1 

Helodermatidae : 

Mexican beaded lizard Heloderma horridum 3 

Beaded lizard (black phase) Heloderma horridum 1 

Gila monster Heloderma suspedum 3 

Varanidae: 

Bornean rough-necked monitor liz- Varanus nudicollis 2 

ard. 

Indian monitor lizard Varanus flavescens 1 

Indian monitor lizard Varanus salvator 1 

Australian lace monitor Varanus varius 2 

Cape monitor Varanus albigularis 1 

BEEPENTES 

Boidae: 

Anaconda Eunedes murinus 1 

Bahama boa Epicrates striatus 2 

Rainbow boa Epicrates cenchria 2 

Cuban tree boa Epicrates angulifer 5 

Tree boa Boa enydris 1 

Cook's tree boa Boa enydris 19 

Ball python Python regius 4 

African python Python sebae 1 

Indian rock python Python molurus 2 

Regal python Python reticulatus 2 

Emperor boa Constrictor imperator 1 

Acrochordidae : 

Elephant trunk snake Acrochordus javanicus 1 

Colubridae: 

Slate water snake Enhydris plumbea 10 

Flying snake Chrysopelea ornata 1 

Vine snake Oxybelis acuminatus 1 

Twig, or vine, snake Thelotornis kirklandi 3 

Mud snake Farancia abacura 2 



174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTnTTTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Colubridae — Continued 

King snake Lampropeliis geiulus 3 

Speckled king snake Lampropeltis getulus 3 

California king snake Lampropeltis getulus 2 

Florida king snake Lampropeltis getulus 2 

Sonoran king snake Lampropeltis getulus 

Scarlet king snake Lampropeltis doliata 

Milk snake Lampropeltis triangulum 

Mole snake Lampropeltis rhomboinaculata 

Tropical king snake Lampropeliis polyzonus 

Garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis 

Lake Erie garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis 

Eastern hognose snake Heterodon platyrhinos 

Western hognose snake Heterodon nasicus 

Green snake Opheodrys aestivus 

Water snake Matrix sipedon 

Diamond-backed water snake Matrix rhombifera 

Brown water snake Matrix taxispilota 

Red-bellied water snake Matrix erythrogaster 

Florida water snake Matrix pictiventris 

Tessellated snake Matrix tessellatus 

Island water snake Matrix insularum 

Mangrove snake Matrix compressicauda 

Indigo snake Drymarchon corais 

Texas indigo snake Drymarchon corais 

Pilot black snake, albino Elaphe obsoleta 

Pilot black snake Elaphe obsoleta 

Southern pilot black snake Elaphe obsoleta 

Corn snake Elaphe obsoleta ._ 

Lindheimer's rat snake Elaphe obsoleta 

Chicken snake Elaphe quadrivittata 

Aesculapian snake Elaphe longissima 

Black racer Coluber constrictor 

Red racer Masticophis flagellum 

Western coachwhip snake Masticophis flagellurn 2 

Asiatic rat snake Elaphe taeniura 3 

Lesser Indian rat snake Elaphe carinata 4 

African house snake, or musaga Boaedon lineatum 2 

Ring-necked snake Diadophis punctatus 2 

DeKay's snake Storeria dekayi 2 

Grass green whip snake Dryophis prasinus 1 

Dhaman, or Greater Indian rat Ptyas mucosus 9 

snake. 

File snake Simocephalus capensis 1 

Elapidae: 

Boomslang Dispholidus typhus 3 

Indian cobra Maja naja 4 

Taiwan cobra Maja naja 14 

Black cobra Maja melanoleuca 1 

Egyptian cobra Maja haje 2 

King cobra Ophiophagus hannah 1 

Krait Bungarus multicinctus 6 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



175 



Family and common name 

Crotalidae: 

Northern copperhead snake 

Broad-banded copperhead 

Water moccasin, or cottonmouth 

Cantil 

Asian snorkel viper 

Palm viper 

Pope's pit viper 

Wagler's pit viper 

Mamushi, or Asiatic viper 

Habu, or Asiatic viper _. 

Eastern diamondback rattlesnake... 
Western diamondback rattlesnake. _ 

Viperidae: 

Pufif adder 



Scientific name 

Ancistrodon contortrix. 
Ancistrodon contortrix. 
Ancistrodon piscivorus- 
Ancistrodon bilineatus . 
Ancistrodon acutus 



Number 

5 
1 
4 
2 
3 



Trimeresurus stejnegeri 15 

Trimeresurus popeorwn 

Trimeresurus wagleri 

Trimeresurus elegans 

Trimeresurus flavoviridis 

Crotalus adamanteus 

Crotalus atrox 



Biiis arietans. 



CHELONIA 

Chelydridae: 

Snapping turtle Chelydra serpentina 

Alligator snapping turtle Macroclemys temmincki 

Kinosternidae: 

Musk turtle Sternotherus odoratus 

Mud turtle Kinosternon subrubrum 

South American mud turtle Kinosternon crueniatum 

Emydidae: 

Spotted turtle Clemmys guttata 

Wood turtle Clemmys insculpta 

Pacific pond turtle Clemmys marmorata 

Kura kura box turtle Cuora amboinensis 

European pond turtle Emys orbicularis 

Box turtle Terrapene Carolina 

Three-toed box turtle Terrapene Carolina 

Western box turtle Terrapene ornata 

Florida box turtle Terrapene bauri 

Diamondback turtle Malaclemys terrapin 

Map turtle Graptemys geographica 

Barbour's turtle Graptemys barbouri 

False map turtle Graptemys pseudogeographica. 

Painted turtle Chrysemys picta 



- 21 
5 

4 
7 
3 

4 
5 
1 
3 
3 
Many 
3 
2 
1 
7 
3 
6 
4 
Many 

South American red-lined turtle Pseudemys callirostris Many 

South American turtle Pseudemys dorbigni 8 

Cumberland turtle Pseudemys scripla 22 

Mobile turtle, or cooter. - Pseudemys fioridana 12 

Florida water turtle, or cooter Pseudemys fioridana 15 

Red-bellied turtle Pseudemys rubriventris 11 



Central American turtle Pseudemys ornata 

Cuban water turtle Pseudemys decussata . 

Yellow-bellied turtle Pseudemys scripta 

Indian fresh- water turtle Batagur baska 

Reeves's turtle Chinemys reevesii 

Testudinidae: 

Giant Aldabra turtle Testudo elephantina . . 

Duncan Island turtle Testudo ephippium... 



2 
1 
13 
1 
5 

2 
2 



176 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Family and common name 

Testudinidae — Continued 

South American turtle 

Galdpagos turtle 

African soft-shelled tortoise 

Hinged-backed turtle 

Trionychidae: 

Florida soft-shelled turtle 

African soft-shelled turtle 

Pelomedusidae: 

African water turtle 

African black mud turtle 

Amazon spotted turtle 

Chelidae: 

South American side-necked turtle. 

Australian side-necked turtle 

Krefft's turtle, 

Murray turtle 

Small side-necked turtle 

South American gibba turtle 

Large side-necked turtle 

Flat-headed turtle 



Scientific name 



Number 



Testudo tahulata 1 

Testudo vicina 1 

Malacochersus tornieri 2 

Kinixys erosa 1 

Trionyx ferox G 

Trionyx trnmguis 2 

Pelomedusa subrufa 2 

Pelusios subniger 1 

Podocnemis unifilis 7 

Bairachemys nasuta 2 

Chelodina longicollis 3 

Emydura krefftii 3 

Emydura macquarrii 6 

Hydromedusa tectifera 2 

Mesoclemmys gibba 2 

Phrynops hilarii 12 

Platemys platycephala 9 



AMPHIBIANS 
CAUDATA 

Amphiumidae: 

Congo eel Amphiuma means 4 

Ambystomidae: 

Tiger salamander Amby stoma tigrinum 2 

Small-mouthed salamander Amby stoma texanum 1 

Salamandridae: 

Red-bellied newt Cynops pyrrhogasier 12 

Red-spotted newt Diemictylus viridescens 15 



SALIENTIA 

Bufonidae: 

American toad Bufo americanus 

Forest toad Bufo blombergii.„ 

Giant toad Bufo marinus 

Cuban toad Bufo peltocephalus 

Pelobatidae: 

Spadef oot toad Scaphiopus holbrooki- 

Pipidae: 

Surinam toad Pipa pipa 

Leptodactylidae: 

Colombian horned frog Ceratophrys calcarata. 

Argentine horned frog Ceratophrys ornata 

Hylidae: 

Squirrel tree frog Hyla squirella 

Green tree frog Hyla cinerea. 



20 

2 
1 

6 
1 



Gray tree frog 

Microhylidae: 

Narrow-mouthed toad Microhyla olivacea 



Hyla versicolor 13 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 177 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Ranidae: 

African bull frog Rana adspersa 7 

American bull frog Rana catesbeiana 1 

Green frog Rana clamitans 20 

Leopard frog Rana pipiens Many 

Rhacophoridae: 

African flash tree frog Hylambates maculatus 2 

Dendrobatidae: 

Green poison-arrow frog Dendrobates iinctorius 1 

ARTHROPODS 

DECAPODA 

Cenobitidae: 

Land hermit crab Coenobita clypeatus Many 

ARANEIDA 

Theraphosidae: 

Tarantula Eurypelma hentzi 1 

Theridiidae: 

Black- widow spider Latrodectus mactans 1 

SCORPIONIDA 

Vejovidae: 

Stripe-tailed scorpion Vejovis spinigerus 1 

African giant black scorpion Pandinus imperator 2 

ORTHOPTERA 

Blattidae: 

Tropical giant cockroach Blaberus giganteus Many 

MOLLUSKS 
PtJLMONATA 

Planorbidae: 

Pond snails Helisoma Irivolvis 20 

FISHES 

NEOCERATODONTOIDEI 

Lepidosirenidae: 

South American lungfish Lepidosiren paradoxa 1 

Protopteridae: 

African lungfish Protopterus annectens 1 

OSTARIOPHTSOIDEI 

Characidae: 

Metynnis Metynnis rooseveltn 2 

Gymnotidae: 

African knifefish Sternarchella schotti 2 

Cyprinidae: 

Zebrafish Brachydanio rerio 17 

White Cloud Mountain fish Tanichthys albonubes 4 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Cobitidae: 

Large kuhlii Acanthophthalmus semicinctus 1 

Callichthyidae: 

Corydoras Corydoras hastatus 2 

Corydoras scavenger catfish Corydoras paleatus 1 

Loricariidae: 

Armored catfish Plecostomus plecostomus 2 

CTPRINODONTOIDEI 

Poeciliidae: 

Blue gambusia Gambusia punctatus 2 

Flag-tailed guppy Lebistes reticulatus 10 

Guppy Lebistes reticulatus 22 

Black mollie Mollienisia latipinna 3 

Platy, or moonfish Xiphophorus maculatus 5 

PERCOMORPHOIDEI 

Anabantoidea: 

Climbing perch Anabas testudineus 3 

Blue gourami Trichogaster trichopterus 1 

Cichlidae: 

Peacock cichlid Astronotus ocellaius 1 

Egyptian raouthbreeder Haplochromis multicolor 1 

Angelfish Pterophyllum scalare _- 5 

PYGMY HIPPOPOTAMUSES 

Because the National Zoological Park had considerable success in 
raising pygmy hippopotamuses, it seems advisable to list the breeding 
record here. Tlie first pygmy hippopotamus to come to the Zoo was 
a gift from Harvey Firestone, Sr., to President Calvin Coolidge in 
1927. It was known as Billy. In 1929 a mate, Hannah, was pur- 
chased. In 1940 the Smithsonian Institution-Firestone Expedition 
returned from Liberia with one young male, which died May 3, 1943, 
and one adult female (known as Matilda). 

Billy and Hannah 

August 26, 1931, male, died August 27, 1931, killed by mother. 

August 21, 1932, male, died August 22, 1932, killed by mother. 

April 29, 1933, male, died April 29, 1933, killed by mother. 

May 8, 1938, female, sent to Cole Bros. Circus April 26, 1939. 

June 24, 1939, female, prematurely born, died June 25, 1939. 

February 25, 1940, female, died October 28, 1942. 

May 9, 1941, female, sent to Philadelphia Zoological Gardens March 16, 1M4L. 

February 1, 1943, female, died February 2, 1943. 

February 20, 1945, male, sent to Miller Bros. Circus January 7, 1950. 

December 21, 1945, female, died December 21, 1945. 

October 11, 1947, female, died February 11, 1948. 

March 12, 1950, female, sent to Catskill Game Farm June 16, 1953. 

June 13, 1951, male, sent to Catskill Game Farm June 16, 1953. 

April 26, 1953, female, died November S, 1953. 

June 8, 1954, female, died June 23, 1955. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 179 

Billp and Matilda 

December 13, 1943, male, sent to Fort Worth (Tex.) Zoo. 

March 5, 1947, female (living in NZP). 

July 3, 1948, female (living in NZP). 

December 20, 1949, female, sent to Sydney, Australia, October 18, 1954. 

April 24, 1952, male, died October 8, 1952. 

October 2, 1953, female, died September 16, 1954. 

January 30, 1955, female, sent to John Seago, England, September 7, 1956. 

March 29, 1956, female, sent to L. Ruhe, New York, May 7, 1957. 

Matilda and two of her daughters are still living in the National 
Zoological Park. Billy died on October 11, 1955, and Hannah on 
March 6, 1958. 

FINANCES 

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro- 
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act. 
The operation and maintenance appropriation for the fiscal year 1959 
totaled $953,800, which includes a supplemental appropriation of $55,- 
800. This was an increase of $120,800 over fiscal year 1958. The 
increase consisted of $55,800 supplemental for pay increases in accord- 
ance with Public Law 85-462 and Wage Board increases approved by 
the District of Columbia Commissioners in June 1958; $52,833 to 
establish 14 new positions ; $4,700 for the purchase of new equipment ; 
$7,467 increase in miscellaneous supplies. Of the $953,800 appro- 
priated, $734,666 was for salaries and $219,134 for the maintenance 
and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter figure were major 
operational expenditures amounting to $180,434, consisting of $65,- 
000 for animal food; $17,168 for fuel for heating; $29,545 for ma- 
terials, building, construction, and repairs; $44,979 for civil service 
retirement; $3,575 for the purchase of animals; $9,101 for electricity; 
$3,633 for telephone, postal, and telegraph services ; $5,000 for veter- 
inarian equipment and supplies; and $2,433 for Federal employees 
group life insurance. The balance of $28,700 in operational funds 
was expended for other items, including freight, sundry supplies, uni- 
forms, gasoline, road repairs, equipment replacement, and new 
equipment. 

In addition to the regular appropriation, $50,000 was allotted for 
capital outlay. This money was used to renovate the deer paddocks at 
the Connecticut Avenue entrance and to restore the area for aquatic 
mammals above the sea-lion pool. 

PERSONNEL 

There are 158 authorized positions at the Zoo divided as follows : 
Administrative office, 16 ; animal department, 58 ; mechanical depart- 
ment, 50 ; police department, 27 ; and grounds department, 7. 



180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Lee O. Burris, who was appointed head gardener on March 1, 1954, 
retired on October 31, 1958. Michael Dubik, formerly assistant head 
gardener, became the supervisory gardener. 

During the year nine police officers completed a police course of- 
fered by the University of Maryland, and five keepers attended a 
course in supervision at the Department of Agriculture Night School. 

On March 17, at a luncheon in the Zoo Park Restaurant, six women 
were honored for their efforts in behalf of the National Zoological 
Park. Five were wives of Zoo officials or keepers ; the sixth was the 
mother of a keeper, and all had taken baby animals into their homes 
to care for them, and had successfully raised them for the Zoo. The 
Director introduced the guests of honor, and Dr. Carmichael, Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, presented each one with a certifi- 
cate of appreciation. Those receiving the certificates were Mrs. Lucile 
Q. Mann, Mrs. Esther S. Walker, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Reed, Mrs. Mar- 
garet A. Grimmer, Mrs. Louise E. Gallagher, and Mrs. Nettie L 
Stroman. 

mrORMATION AND EDUCATION 

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons 
all over the world who write for information regarding animals. 
From every part of this country citizens write to the Zoo as a national 
institution. Telephone calls come in constantly, asking for identifica- 
tion of animals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the 
office as well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking informa- 
tion. 

The Director spoke before six civic groups and one school group 
and appeared on six television programs, displaying animals from 
the Zoo. 

A symposium on "Recognition and Treatment of Snake Bite" was 
given to the medical staff of Children's Hospital by the Associate 
Director. 

Dr. James F. Wright, veterinarian, published two articles in Vet- 
erinary Medicine: "Necrotic Stomatitis in an American Elk" (October 
1958) and "Treatment of Captive Wild Animals Using an Automatic 
Projectile Type Syringe" (January 1959). 

Malcom Davis, associate headkeeper, continued to write his weekly 
nature column for the Hemdon-Chantilly (Va.) Times and the Lou- 
doun Tunes Mirror as a public service. He published a monthly 
article in All-Pets Magazine and the American Cage-Bird Magazine^ 
as well as biological notes for The Auk and notes for the Pheasant 
Breeders Gazette. He spoke on three television programs and broad- 
cast a nature script once a month from the Herndon, Va., radio station. 
He also spoke to four civic clubs and two high-school biology classes 
on Zoo animals. Mr. Davis, who is a charter member of the Inter- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 181 

national Wild Waterfowl Association, Inc., was appointed to its board 
of directors in July 1958. 

Keepers Burgess, DePrato, Stroman, Welk, and Widman brought 
young animals to the television screen repeatedly. Many of these 
programs were on "Time for Science" from WTTG, which is watched 
by 43,000 students in the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir- 
ginia schools. A half-hour program devoted to the Zoo was broad- 
cast from WTOP, sponsored by the Friends of the National Zoo, 
and showed the Director and Keepers Maliniak, Stroman, and Gal- 
lagher with a young gibbon, a baby chimpanzee, and two hybrid 
bear cubs. 

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the park, but 
exceptions were made for groups of physically handicapped children 
who visited the park. Two groups were from the District of Colum- 
bia Health School, whose children were brought by the Kiwanis 
Club, and another from the Silver Spring Intermediate School. A 
small group of blind children were conducted through the Zoo in 
July 1958. They came from Four Corners (Md.) School and were 
sponsored by the Lions Club International. 

Fifteen members of the Virginia Society of Ornithology, Northern 
Branch, met at the birdhouse to study Central American birds. The 
American Society of Mammalogists, during its 3-day meeting in 
Washington, spent an afternoon on a guided tour of the Zoo. Ten 
students of chordate anatomy from Baltimore (Md.) Junior College 
were taken on a tour of the reptile house by Senior Keeper Mario 
DePrato. 

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as such, 
effort is made to study the animals and to improve their health, hous- 
ing, and diet in every way possible. 

VETERINARIAN'S REPORT 

During the past year further uses of the projectile syringe for treat- 
ment and immobilization of the large animals in the collection were 
investigated. 

With the help of Dr. Warren Pistey of the New England Institute 
for Medical Research, experiments utilizing the drug succinylcholine 
were carried out on numerous species with a view to developing a 
safe method of immobilizing animals for treatment and such routine 
procedures as the intradermic tuberculin test. Successful immobiliza- 
tion was accomplished by this method in the zebu, eland, tiger, lion, 
fallow deer, Virginia deer, gaur, American elk, yak, American bison, 
giraffe, peccary, and red deer. All these were immobilized without 
any form of physical restraint being applied. The full particulars 
of these and other immobilizations are to be published in two papers 
concerning the use of succinylcholine. The first paper was presented 



182 AlOrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

with motion pictures by Dr. Pistey at the Midwinter Conference of the 
Midwestern Zoological Park Directors at Columbus, Ohio, in Febru- 
ary 1959. 

The projectile syringe was used also to effect the capture of an 
escaped Barbary ape. In this case the drug used for immobilization 
was the alkaloidal form of nicotine because of its more rapid and 
predictable action. 

The past year has shown that the change in diets instituted in 1958 
was a wise move. Wastage sharply decreased, animal reproduction 
is improved, and a better understanding of the nutritional state of 
the collection has been gained. One dietary change of major im- 
portance was instituted this year by the substitution of a packing- 
house byproduct for a portion of the raw ground horsemeat formerly 
used as the carnivore ration. This product has a much better nutri- 
tional analysis than horsemeat and requires no labor to bone and 
grind, as it is supplied ready to use. 

As in the past 2 years, all bacterial isolations and identifications were 
made by Dr. F. R. Lucas, director of the Livestock Sanitary Labora- 
tory at Centreville, Md. At least 300 bacterial isolations and 25 tissue 
examinations were made by Dr. Lucas for the park in the past year. 
Most important of the bacterial isolations are the following : 

1. Four isolations of Salmonella typhimurium from the fecals of hoatzins 
brought back from British Guiana by Mr. Grimmer. 

2. Salmonella typhimurium from a great red-crested cockatoo. 

3. Salmonella cholerasuis var. hunsendorf from the spleen of a slow loris. 

4. Salmonella arizona from a fox snake. 

5. Salmonella edinburg from the intestine of a viper. 

6. Salmonella georgia from the blood of a rainbow snake. 

7. Hemolytio micrococcus from a young DeBrazza's guenon, 

8. Hemolytic micrococcus from a pronghorn antelope. 

9. Short chain streptococcus and pasteurella from an Indian rhinoceros. 

The numerous enteric pathogens being isolated indicate that more 
attention must be paid to the cleanliness of food preparation and 
utensil cleaning operations. 

In addition to the above, Dr. Lucas also identified Leptospira or- 
ganisms in dark-field examinations of kidney tissues from one of the 
Zoo's aged bush dogs which showed gross kidney pathology. This and 
earlier reports indicate that leptospirosis is a problem in small 
mammals, particularly the canines. 

Many parasite identifications were made by A. Mcintosh and M. B. 
Chitwood of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The following 
parasites, however, are repeatedly identified from the species 
indicated : 

Bears — Toxascaris transfuga. 

Cats — Toxascaris leonine. 

Grant's zebras — Parascaris zehrae. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 183 

Albatrosses — Tetrabothrium cestodes. 

Snakes — Neorenifer flukes, Bothridium and Ophiotaenia cestodes. 

The bears, cats, and zebras have been repeatedly treated with pipera- 
zine compounds, but the parasites persist. The zebra paddocks are 
certainly contaminated with infective parasite eggs, but the cats and 
bears are on concrete, which should help to break the parasite cycle. 

Several of the Zoo's more valuable large mammals died during the 
year. The first loss was the female wisent, which had a fine calf by 
her side. She died within minutes of being found down. No previous 
indication of sickness in the animal was noticed, and nothing un- 
usual was noted on the day prior to death. Necropsy was performed 
by the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, but the gross post mortem 
failed to disclose the cause of death. A condition similar to bovine 
ketosis was suspected. The 13 bacterial cultures taken from important 
organs of this animal were all negative for pathogenic organisms. 

The Indian rhinoceros received in July 1939 sickened on January 8. 
Symptomatic treatment was begun, using the projectile syringe, but 
the animal died the next day. Necropsy was performed by the Armed 
Forces Institute of Pathology. The pathological diagnosis was hem- 
orrhagic enteritis, ascending cholangitis, arterio and arteriolar 
nephrosclerosis, hemorrhagic lymphadenitis, cholelithiasis, and acute 
pneumonitis. Of the 12 bacterial cultures taken from important or- 
gans in the animal, all were negative except two blood cultures, from 
which short chain streptococcus and bipolar rods were isolated. 

The male okapi became sick on February 1 and was treated with the 
projectile method for 6 weeks until a sputum sample was obtained. 
This was examined by Dr. Feldman of the Veterans' Administration 
and found positive for acid-fast organisms. The animal was eu- 
thanized for necropsy by the AFIP. Examination of the carcass 
disclosed pulmonary granulomas consistent with tuberculosis infection. 

The cage next to the okapi was occupied by a female African black 
rhinoceros which had been failing in physical condition for some 
months. A sputum sample obtained from the animal was examined by 
Dr. Feldman and declared heavily laden with acid-fast bacteria. The 
animal died on April 21. Necropsy revealed lesions similar to but more 
extensive and of much longer standing than those found in the okapi. 
Since these animals had some physical contact over the cage partition, 
transmission of the infection may have occurred by this route. 

A family of elands consisting of an adult male and female and a 
female calf were all found to have similar lesions during the year. 

Dr. A. G. Karlson of the Mayo Foundation was able to isolate 
Mycohactejnum. tubereulosis var. hovis from the okapi, rhinoceros, and 
the two adult elands. Results of examination of culture from a young 
South American tapir and an old female American bison are being 

536608—60 13 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

awaited. In addition, three capybaras and two more old bison showed 
necropsy lesions of tuberculous infection. 

A young DeBrazza's guenon, a 6-week-old squirrel monkey, a pig- 
tailed macaque, and a moor macaque all sickened and died rapidly 
with signs and necropsy findings consistent with a virus encephalitis. 
No definite diagnosis could be made because of lack of facilities. The 
problem of virus infections is one which needs investigation, since it 
is probable that immunization procedures would be of considerable 
value. 

Other losses during the year were animals that may have established 
a longevity record, such as the white-faced heron {Notophoyx novae- 
hollandiae), which was received September 11, 1938, and died August 
20, 1958 ; Anzio Boy, the hero homing pigeon, hatched in San Prisco, 
Italy, in 1943, and credited with completing 38 wartime missions in 
Italy during World War II ; the Przewalski horse, born in Philadel- 
phia in 1926; and the African civet {Civettictis civetta) ^ which was 
brought from Liberia by the Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition of 
1940. 

A long- acting ataraxic drug (Trilafon, Schering) has been used 
with very encouraging results on the following animals, all except the 
last being given by projectile syringe : 

Gaur, young male. This animal was shipped to the Philadelphia Zoological 
Gardens after receiving two doses of the drug. He was crated, loaded, and 
trucked without creating any disturbance. 

Yak, male. This very aggressive bull was given one dose of the drug which 
lasted for 4 days, during which it was possible for the men to enter his pen. 

American bison, male. This bull became aggressive when it was necessary 
to treat one of the old cows. He also began to knock the cow about and keep 
her down. After the drug had been given he became docile and easily managed. 

Brown fallow deer, buck. The animal was extremely excitable until given this 
drug for the removal of a leg cast. 

Pampas cat. This excitable individual was given a small dose of the drug to 
facilitate trapping and moving to new quarters. The move was easily accom- 
plished, and the effect of the drug lasted during the early acclimatization period 
in the new cage. 

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past 
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past 6 years : 



Mortality, fiscal year 1959 



Mammals- 

Birds 

Reptiles. _ 



Total. 



Deaths 


Attrition* 


1954 


95 


25 


1955 


148 


24 


1956 


138 


42 


1957 
1958 
1959 


381 


91 



Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years 

648 

735 

618 

549 

550 

472 

•Attrition is the term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and handling after 
accession at the Zoo, or before an animal can adapt to cage habitation within the collection. 



' Originally identified as Civettictis civetta, the animal was later carried on 
Zoo records as Herpestes ichneumon, but proper identification has been established 
as Civettictis civetta. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 185 

COOPERATION 

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts 
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individ- 
uals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result the Zoo 
receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and in turn 
it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it does not 
need. 

Special acknowledgment is due William G. Vale, U.S. Dispatch 
Agent in New York City, and Stephen E. Lato, Dispatch Agent in 
San Francisco, who are frequently called upon to clear shipments of 
animals coming from abroad, often at great personal inconvenience. 
The animals have been forwarded to Washington without the loss of 
a single individual. 

Russell Arundel, of Warrenton, Va., gave the Zoo a 13-year-old 
chestnut gelding, and his son, Arthur W. Arundel, has placed his 
horse, an 8-year-old quarter horse, also a gelding, on indefinite loan 
in the National Zoological Park. Both are used by the Zoo Park 
Police in patrolling areas that could not be covered otherwise. 

Gen. William Dunckel of Rockville, Md., presented a number of 
tropical plants, among them some mango trees, which have been set 
out in the background of the crocodile cage. Lee O. Burris, formerly 
head gardener and now retired, brought back from Florida a truck- 
load of cabbage palms, magnolias, yellow honeysuckle, and Spanish 
moss, which have been used in the birdhouse and in the reptile house. 
Mrs. Vera S. Hunt of Washington, D.C., donated a large rubber plant, 
which has been placed in the birdhouse. 

Dr. Carlton Herman of the Patuxent Wildlife Refuge gave the Zoo 
a 300-egg capacity incubator, which has been put to good use in the 
birdhouse. The U.S. Naval Receiving Station sent 650 pomids of nuts 
that had been declared unfit for human consumption; from the Dis- 
trict of Columbia Dog Pound the Zoo received a quantity of horsemeat 
and 40 cases of Japanese tuna. 

As in the past, the Zoo cooperated with the National Capital Parks 
and lent small animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature Center 
in Rock Creek Park for demonstration. In return, the Zoo received 
a number of specimens as gifts. 

VISITORS 

Attendance at the Zoo this year reached a total of 4,055,673, In 
general, this figure is based on estimates rather than actual counts. 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1959 



July (1958) 575,300 

August 552,920 

September 413,554 

October 294,656 

November 185,000 

December 69,250 



January (1959) 114,650 

February 166,550 

March 312,453 

April 374,540 

May 573,200 

June 423,600 

Total 4,055,673 



Number of bus groups 



Locality 



Alabama 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia. 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Mississippi 



Number 


Number 


of groups 


In groups 


28 


2, 112 


10 


343 


16 


579 


96 


4, 165 


48 


2,205 


218 


9,311 


2 


71 


15 


574 


1 


32 


27 


944 


o 


87 


6 


243 


706 


33, 788 


11 


411 


9 


343 


9 


313 


8 


252 



Locality 



Missouri 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina, 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

South Carolina - 

Tennessee 

Texas 

West Virginia, _ 

Wisconsin 

Virginia 

U.S.A 

Total 



Number 
of groups 



1 
1 

29 

198 

275 

56 

297 

60 

75 

1 

59 

5 

779 

1 



3,050 



Number 
in groups 



21 

36 

1,235 

9,259 

11, 953 
2,287 

12, 201 
2,514 
3,018 

40 

2,375 

210 

32, 831 

77 



121, 937 



Groups from foreign countries 



Africa _ 


1 
1 
2 

1 


88 


China 

Norway. _ _ 


12 
73 


Foreign exchange 
students 


1, 100 






Total 


5 


1,273 



About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
and listed according to the State, Territory, or countiy from which 
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the 
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States 



Percentage 

California 0.7 

Connecticut .7 

South Carolina .7 

Illinois .6 

Michigan .6 

Tennessee .6 

Texas .5 

Alabama .4 



Total 95.0 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 187 

of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Mary- 
land, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other 
States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1959 is as follows : 

Percentage 

Maryland 31.1 

Virginia 22.1 

District of Columbia 21.7 

Pennsylvania 4.0 

New York 3.0 

North Carolina 2.1 

New Jersey 1.6 

Ohio 1.6 

West Virginia 1.2 

Florida 1.0 

Massachusetts 0.8 

The remaining 5 percent came from other States, Africa, Belgium, 
Canada, Canal Zone, France, Germany, Guam, Japan, Manitoba, 
Mexico, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Nicaragua, Nova Scotia, 
Okinawa, Puerto Kico, and El Salvador. 

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the 
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and 
foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 22 
States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries; 
and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent not 
less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries. 

Parking spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the bus 
parking place is utilized and 969 cars when it is not used. 

BUILDINGS, GROUNDS, AND ENCLOSURES 

Most of the year's work done throughout the Zoo was with a view 
to improving visitor and employee safety, continuing the effort 
started in the last quarter of the previous year. The new type of 
visitor safety fence, 46 inches high with a 12-inch 45° angle outward 
at the top, has been installed around the bear pits, the elephant pools, 
and the lion house. Additional horizontal bars were placed on the 
outside lion cages. 

The ceiling of the birdhouse was patched and replastered where 
necessary. In addition to the large areas of deterioration which 
were readily discernible. Hurricane Hazel, in 1954, did much dam- 
age not apparent until extensive plaster repairs were underway. It 
had been necessary to keep one wing closed for a year. The inside of 
the birdhouse was repainted, using light sunny colors. The cages 
in the "new" wing of the birdhouse have been completely redecorated, 
furnishing a more naturalistic setting with extensive use of plantings 
and trees. Not only are the birds exhibited in a much more inter- 



188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

esting fashion but they seem happier and more contented. The 
keepers have done all this work on their own initiative. 

Some of the cages of the reptile house were redecorated with addi- 
tional stonework, giving the reptiles crevices to lie in and providing 
them a sense of security and at the same time keeping them on exhibi- 
tion. Some of the cages were repainted in i)astel colors, and several 
were equipped with fluorescent lights, as a pilot exhibit anticipating 
the day when all of them will be lighted in this manner. The glass at 
the top of all the permanent reptile cages was replaced by wire 
screening to provide better ventilation; four of the portable cages 
were reconstructed out of aluminum as pilot exhibits. 

The parking-lot fill near the elephant house was completed, as well 
as the fill between the hay barn and the incinerator, and a service road 
was built from the sheep mountain to the basement of the reptile 
house, thus furnishing vehicular access from the reptile house to the 
buffalo pens. This means that various park automobiles can service 
this entire area without interfering with public traffic. 

The year's appropriation included $50,000 in capital outlay for the 
replacement and refurbishing of the hoofed-stock pens at the Connecti- 
cut Avenue entrance and the acquatic-mammal area above the sea-lion 
pool. The two pens on the right side of the walk leading to the bird- 
house were refenced, using chain-link fence, and slightly enlarged; 
terraced walls were put in, resurfaced with dirt, and seeded. This 
hillside had been unsightly because of years of erosion. The two pens 
in the triangle between the walk leading to the birdhouse and the 
Connecticut Avenue-Harvard Street road were refenced, using chain- 
link fencing, and enlarged, the surface was raised by the use of fill 
dirt, and another pen was added. The new type of visitors' fence was 
put around these new pens. A new pen for deer was installed behind 
the beaver area and the sea-lion pool. The deer can be seen across 
the valley from the walk in front of the bear dens. 

Work on the aquatic-mammal area should be completed in the 
early part of fiscal year 1960. It is hoped that in the coming year 
tlie otter exhibit will also be functioning once again. In years past 
the public took a keen interest in watching otters at play, but this 
section of "Beaver Valley" was abandoned because of lack of funds 
to maintain it. 

The work of the gardener's force was mainly that of removing dead 
trees, which are a menace to both animals and visitors, and replacing 
them -with young trees. In all, 243 trees were cut down in the course 
of the year. The grounds department also furnishes the animal de- 
partment with forage for the animals. Hea"\^ logs for the big cats 
to climb, perches and sawed hollow logs for small mammals, gnawing 
logs for rodents, and perches for birds are supplied on demand ; and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 189 

tropical plants for indoor cages and the buildings are supplied and 
cared for. 

Activities in the Police Department continue to show a marked 
increase, in keeping with the larger visitor attendance. The police 
force was expanded by the addition of four men, and two horses 
were added, thereby permitting additional patrols in and around 
lieavily wooded areas of the park. A safety committee was set up, 
with regiilarly scheduled meetings of all park personnel, designed to 
insure all possible safety precautions for the protection of visitor's and 
employees. Additional emphasis with regard to traffic-law enforce- 
ment rasulted in an increase in the nmnber of arrests for traffic vio- 
lations. The total mmiber of visitors stopping in the police station 
for information of various sorts was 13,740, an increase of 6,914 over 
the preceding year. First-aid cases also increased ; a total of 809 per- 
sons were treated, principally for minor injuries. 

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE 

A new office to replace the 154-year-old "mansion" is imperative. 
The present administration building, while a liistoric landmark, is 
not suited to the purpose for which it is being used, nor is it safe, 
being honeycombed with termites and rotted from dampness. A mod- 
ern building, with properly arranged offices, library stacks and 
shelves, a conference room, and a small laboratory, is badly needed. 

All the facilities at the National Zoological Park are based on an- 
tiquated installations and should be modernized, starting with such 
basic necessities as water, electricity, sewage, and heating. It is hoped 
that a master plan can be drawn for the Zoo so that all future con- 
struction and work may be coordinated. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Theodore H. Reed, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carjmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 

Sir : It gives me pleasure to present herewith tlie annual report on 
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1959. 

SCIENTISTS, STUDENTS, AND OBSERVERS 

Following is the list of 54 scientists, students, and observers who 
visited the island last year and stayed for several days, in order to 
conduct scientific research or observe the wildlife of the area. In ad- 
dition, approximately 40 others spent 1 day and 1 night on the island. 



Name 
Anderson, Eugene, 

Santa Monica, Calif. 
Barth, Robert H., 

Harvard University. 
Bennett, Charles, 

University of California, Los Angeles. 
Blest, Dr. A. D., 

University College, London, 
Bruno, Kent, 

Ohio State University. 
Burkhart, Mrs. Harriet, 

Sarasota, Fla. 
Carpenter, Dr. C. R., 

Pennsylvania State University. 
Carpenter, Lane, 

Perkiomen School. 
Clark, Dr. Walter, 

Eastman Kodak Co. 
Cox, Mr. and Mrs. George W., 

University of Illinois. 
Darnton, Mr. and Mrs. Rupert, 

Kent, England. 
Dolan, John, 

Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Drayton, Charles, 

New York. 
Dulaney, James A., 

Smithsonian Institution. 
Dybas, Henry, 

Chicago Natural History Museum. 
Elms, Alan, 

Pennsylvania State University. 
Emerson, Guy, 

Kress Foundation, New York. 
190 



Principal interest 
Bird observation. 

Study of interspecific relations of for- 
micariids in mixed species flocks. 

Temperature and humidity gradients in 
forest. 

Behavior of sphingid and saturniid 
moths. 

Assistant to Dr. Hartman. 

Nature writing. 

Primate population and social organi- 
zation of B.C.I. 
Assistant to Dr. Carpenter. 

Inspection of facilities. 

Photographic test. 

Physiology of tropical birds. 

Bird studies. 

Photographing and collecting reptiles, 

amphibians, and insects. 
Observation of wildlife. 

Specialist on ptiliid beetles. 

Assistant to Dr. Carpenter. 

Observation of wildlife. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



191 



Name 
Enders, Dr. Robert, 

Swarthmore College. 
Engesland, Rolf, 

Oslo, Norway. 
Fast, A. H., 

Arlington, Va. 
Greene, Earle R., 

Los Angeles, Calif. 
Gregoire, Dr. and Mrs. Charles, 

Brussels, Belgium. 
Halka, Dr. Olli, 

Columbia University, New York. 
Harbison, Charles F., 

Natural History Museum, San Diego, 

Calif. 
Hartman, Dr. Frank, 

Ohio State University. 
Host, Per, 

Oslo, Norway. 
Kaufmann, Jack, 

University of California, Berkeley. 
Kessler, Dietrich, 

University of Wisconsin. 
Kuehn, Robert E., 

University of California, Berkeley. 
Ledecky-Janecek, Emanuel, 

New York. 
Mason, Dr. W. A., 

Pennsylvania State University. 
McFarland, Douglas, 

Apple Valley, Calif. 
Motzfeldt, Ulrik, 

Oslo, Norway. 
Peterman, Dan, 

Pennsylvania State University. 
Peterson, David M., 

California. 
Ruud, Miss Berit, 

Oslo, Norway. 
Salem, Alan, 

Chicago Natural History Museum. 
Scott, Mr. and Mrs. Peter, 

Gloucestershire, England. 
Smith, John, 

Harvard University. 
Soper, Dr. Cleveland C, 

Eastman Kodak Tropical Research 

Laboratory. 
Southwick, Dr. C. H., 

Ohio University. 
Vogt, George, 
U.S. National Museum. 



Principal interest 
Survey of mammal population. 

Assistant to Per Host. 

Bird observation. 

Bird observation. 

Microscopy of insect blood. 

Cytochemical study of the Homoptera 

Collection of arthropods. 

Muscle study of birds and adrenal 

gland. 
Photography and sound recording. 

Behavior and ecology of coatis. 

Wildlife observation. 

Assistant to Dr. Carpenter. 

Herpetology. 

Primate population and social organi- 
zation of Barro Colorado Island. 
Observation of wildlife. 

Assistant to Per Host. 

Assistant to Dr. Carpenter. 

Assistant to C. F. Harbison. 

Assistant to Per Host. 

Nonmarine moUusks. 

B. B. C. television. 

Behavior of flycatchers. 

Deterioration studies. 



Primate population and social organi- 
zation of Barro Colorado Island. 
Study of leaf-mining beetles. 



192 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Name 
Walch, Miss Carolyn R., 

Johns Hopkins University. 
Ward, Mr. and Mrs. R., 

Kennett Square, Pa. 
Weil, Mr. and Mrs. John, 

University of California, Berkeley. 
Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. Alexander, 

Washington, D.C. 
Wyse, Gordon B., 

Swarthmore College. 



Principal interest 
Wildlife observation. 

Bird photography. 

Wildlife observation. 

Bird observation. 

Wildlife observation. 



VISITORS 

Approximately 400 visitors were permitted to visit the island for 
the day. 

Because of the increased nmnber of scientists conducting research 
on the island, the decision was made to eliminate the Tuesday guided 
tours through the jungle. Large groups are welcome on Saturdays, 
however, and visitors interested in natural history are permitted to 
visit the island whenever transportation is available. 

RAINFALL 

During the dry season (January through April) of the calendar 
year 1958, rains of 0,01 inch or more fell during 57 days (216 hours) 
and amounted to 19.31 inches, as compared to 1.20 inches during 
1957. During the wet season of 1958 (May through December), 
rains of 0.01 inch or more fell on 191 days (669 hours) and amounted 
to 80.89 inches, as compared to 96.77 inches during 1957. Total 
rainfall for the year was 100.20 inches. During 34 years of record, 
the wettest year was 1935 with 143.42 inches, and the driest year was 
1930, with only 76.57 inches. March was the driest month of 1958 
(2.98 inches) and October the wettest (15.42 inches). The maximum 
records for short periods were: 5 minutes: 1.30 inches; 10 minutes: 
1.65 inches; 1 hour: 4.11 inches; 2 hours: 4.81 inches; 24 hours: 10.48 
inches. 

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS 

Special attention has again been paid to the improvement of existing 
facilities. 

The expansion of the library has continued. A great many new 
books and journals were received, and most of the older books and 
journals were re-bound. A temporary librarian completed the cata- 
loging of the collection. The library is now much more useful as 
an aid to research than it has ever been before. 

Many new aviaries, mammal pens, and smaller cages were built 
this year. Facilities are now available for the keeping of considerable 
numbers of animals and birds in excellent condition for experimental 
observations. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 
Table 1. — Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C.Z. 



193 



Year 


Total 
inches 


station 
average 


Year 


Total 
inches 


station 
Average 


1925 


104. 37 
118. 22 

116. 36 
101. 52 

87.84 
76.57 

123. 30 
113.52 
101. 73 
122. 42 
143. 42 

93.88 

124. 13 

117. 09 
115. 47 

86.51 
91.82 




1942-- -- 


111. 10 
120. 29 
111.96 
120. 42 

87.38 

77.92 

83. 16 

114.86 

114. 51 

112. 72 
97.68 

104. 97 

105. 68 
114. 42 
114. 05 

97.97 
100. 20 


108. 55 


1926 


113.56 
114. 68 
111. 35 

106. 56 
101. 51 

104. 69 

105. 76 
105. 32 

107. 04 
110. 35 

108. 98 
110. 12 
110.62 
110. 94 

109. 43 
108. 41 


1943- 


109 20 


1927 


1944 


109 30 


1928--- 


1945 - 


109 84 


1929 


1946 

1947 

1948.- -.- -- -_ 


108 81 


1930 

1931 --- 


107. 49 
106. 43 


1932 


1949.- 


106. 76 


1933--. - 


1950.- 


107. 07 


1934 


1951 


107. 28 


1935 


1952- - . . - 


106 94 


1936 


1953 


106. 87 


1937-- --- 


1954- - - 


106 82 


1938 

1939 


1955 

1956 


107. 09 
107. 30 


1940 


1957 


106 98 


1941 


1958 


106. 70 









Table 2. — Comparison of 1957 and 1958 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches) 



Month 



Total 



1957 



1968 



Station 
average 



Years of 
record 



1958 
excess or 
deficiency 



Accumu- 
lated 
excess or 
deficiency 



January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Year 

Dry season 

Wet season 



0. 56 

,57 

.02 

.05 

6.37 

5.97 

10. 86 

21.90 

12.40 

17. 22 

17.96 

4.09 



4. 

7. 

2. 

4. 
12. 

8. 

9. 
12. 
10. 
15. 

7. 

4. 



2. 21 

1.41 

1. 21 

3.02 

10.91 

10.89 

11.60 

12. 47 

10.06 

14.04 

18. 44 

10. 44 



97. 97 



100. 20 



106. 70 



1. 20 

96. 77 



19. 31 
80.89 



7.85 
98. 85 



33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 



+ 2.05 
+ 5. 93 
+ 1.77 
+ 1. 71 
+ 1. 31 



-2. 

-2. 

+ . 
+ 1. 
-11. 28 

-5.77 



00 
06 
12 

58 
38 



+ 2.05 

+ 7.98 

+ 9.75 

+ 11.46 

+ 12.77 

+ 10. 77 

+ 8.71 

+ 8.59 

+ 9. 17 

+ 10. 55 

-.73 

-6.50 



-6. 50 



+ 11.46 
- 17. 96 



A 60- by 30-foot wire-screen shed was built to provide space for 
the smaller cages and storage of materials. This has relieved much 
of the crowding problem at the station. 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

In connection with the research on tropical birds now being con- 
ducted by George W. Cox of the University of Illinois, two large 
constant-temperature chambers were built and installed in the new 
storage shed. These chambers were financed by a grant from the 
National Science Foundation to Dr. S. Charles Kendeigh of the 
University of Illinois. 

Various minor items of research and collecting equipment, includ- 
ing traps and trapping nets, and a Sniperscopo for work at night, 
were also procured this year. 

A new system of electric cables from the generators to the labora- 
tories and living quarters on the island was installed, to permit the 
simultaneous use of two generators. This has doubled the effective 
electric power supply of the station. 

A new winch, 25-h.p., 3,300-pomid capacity, was purchased and in- 
stalled to replace the old one. 

Extensive repairs, almost a complete rebuilding job, are being made 
to the termite-infested Chapman House. This should provide ade- 
quate living quarters for three or four scientists. 

Routine mamtenance activities included repamting the inside and 
outside of most of the other station buildings, minor repairs to the 
docks, and new roofing for some of the buildings. 

A new 15-foot Fiberglas boat was bought to replace the old alu- 
minum speedboat, and extensive repairs were made to the launch 
Snook. The old boat channel from the canal to the station dock on 
the island was widened and deepened. Means of transportation with 
the mainland are now in excellent condition. 

A jeep was purchased to replace the i/^-ton truck and has proved to 
be extremely useful for work in the more remote parts of the Canal 
Zone and the Eepublic of Panama. 

It was necessary to move the ofiice in Diablo Heights, as the build- 
ing in which it was located is being torn down. The office is now in 
temporary quarters in the Ancon Court House. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

In order to increase the available opportunities for research at the 
Canal Zone Biological Area, a small piece of land (one-sixteenth of 
a square mile) was procured on the mainland. This new area con- 
sists of grassland and forest edge and is located inside the Navy 
Pipeline Reservation between Gamboa and Montelirio on the east side 
of the canal. The Navy also granted permission to accredited scien- 
tists to work along the 14-mile road running through the Pipeline 
Reservation. This road runs through areas of mixed grassland and 
second-growth scrub and forest of different ages and types. Thus, 
scientists working at the Canal Zone Biological Area will be able to 
conduct research in a variety of environments quite different from the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 195 

heavy mature forest on Barro Colorado itself. Research in this 
mainland area will be completely undisturbed, as the whole Pipeline 
Reservation is closed to the general public. 

The policy of helping promising graduate students in biology has 
continued. Charles F. Bemiett, Jr., of the University of California in 
Los Angeles, completed the main part of his study of temperature 
and humidity gradients in the forest on Barro Colorado ; but additional 
climatological data are still being collected and will be included in 
Mr. Bennett's published report. Robert H. Barth, of Harvard Univer- 
sity, completed a preliminary analysis of the behavior of birds of the 
family Formicariidae in mixed flocks in the forest. 

The analysis of the behavior of sphingid and satumiid moths con- 
tinued by Dr. A. D. Blest of University College, London, which was 
supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation to the 
resident naturalist, was completed. Dr. Blest's results will be pub- 
lished shortly. A second research project supported by a grant from 
the National Science Foundation to the resident naturalist, a compara- 
tive study of the evolution and behavior of certain tropical birds, is 
still in progress. A new research project on the evolution and behavior 
of American monkeys was started this year. 

Plans have already been made to move the office on the mainland into 
larger quarters in the former Ancon Post Office Building, as soon as 
these became available after remodeling. 

FINANCES 

Trust funds for maintenance of the island and its living facilities 
are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, table subscrip- 
tions, and donations. 

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory 
through the payment of table subscriptions : Eastman Kodak Co., New 
York Zoological Society, and Smithsonian Institution. Donations 
are also gratefully acknowledged from the following : Eugene Eisen- 
mann, C. M. Goethe, and Frank Hartman. 

PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS 

The improvement of the library will continue. It will be necessary 
to obtain new books and journals as they are published and to com- 
plete present journal files. 

It is hoped to continue the program of employing temporary bio- 
logical aides. Arrangements have been made to employ John H. 
Kaufmann, of the University of California, to continue his research 
on the behavior and ecology of the coati and other carnivores on 
Barro Colorado Island and to begin a census of the vertebrate species 
in the mainland area. 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

It is still planned to remodel the second floor of the Old Laboratory 
Building to make available separate rooms and to provide additional 
washing and toilet facilities. Now that additional electric power is 
available, airconditioning in some of the other living quarters and in 
the laboratory space on the second floor of the New Laboratory Build- 
ing is anticipated. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excellent 
cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama Canal 
Company. Thanks are due especially to the Lt. Gov. John D. Mc- 
Elheny, the Executive Secretary Paul Runnestrand and his staff; 
Lieutenant Colonel Brown; the Customs and Immigration officials; 
and the Police Division. Also deeply appreciated are the teclmical 
advice and assistance provided by P. Alton White, Chief of the Dredg- 
ing Division, and members of his staff ; C. C. Soper of the Eastman 
Kodak Co. ; and Lt. K. E. McCall and other members of the Signal 
Corps Meteorological Team No. 2. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Martin H. Motnihan, 

Resident Naturalist. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the International Exchange 

Service 



Sir : I have the honor to submit the f ollowmg report on the activities 
of the International Excliange Service for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1959: 

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for 
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and liter- 
ary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated by 
the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for the 
interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and 
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, serves 
as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and com- 
prehensive objective, "the diffusion of knowledge." It was later 
designated by the U.S. Government as the agency for the transmission 
of official documents to selected depositories throughout the world, 
and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to conventions, 
treaties, and other international agreements. 

The number of packages of publications received for transmission 
during the year was 1,129,476, an increase of 34,678 packages over the 
previous fiscal year. The weight of the packages received was 767,389 
pounds, an increase of 24,060 pounds. 

The average weight of the individual package was 10.87 ounces as 
compared to the 10.86-ounce average for the fiscal year of 1958. 

The publications received from foreign sources for addressees in 
the United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad are 
classified as shown in the following table : 



Classification 


Packages 


Weight 


U.S. parliamentary documents sent abroad 


Number 
626, 465 


Number 


Pounds 
226, 119 


Pounds 


Publications received In return for parliamentary 


5,775 


10, 325 


U.S. departmental documents sent abroad - 


239, 401 


218,261 


Publications received In return for departmental 


5,146 


13,059 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent 
abroad 


189, 721 


199,414 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications 
received from abroad for distribution in the United 
States -- 


62, 968 


100 211 










Total -- 


1, 055, 587 


73,889 


643 794 


19S MR 








1,12 


),476 


767 S«Q 









197 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bureaus 
of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such means is 
impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Distribution 
in the United States of the publications received through the foreign 
exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but by other 
means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped to the 
foreign exchange bureaus was 2,840, or 242 less than for the previous 
year. Of these boxes, 899 were for depositories of full sets of U.S. 
Government documents, these publications being furnished in ex- 
change for the official publications of foreign governments which are 
received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The weight of 
packages forwarded by mail and by means other than freight was 
271,372 pounds. 

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for 
transportation $30,294.47. With this amount it was possible to effect 
the shipment of 784,571 pounds, wliich was 34,316 pounds less than 
was shipped in the previous year. However, approximately 7,374 
pounds of the full sets of U.S. Government documents accumulated 
during the year because the Library of Congress had requested 
suspension of shipment to certain foreign depositories. 

During the year, ocean freight rates per cubic foot continued at the 
1958 level. The transportation cost for hauling books and periodicals 
to the Baltimore piers also remained at the 1958 level. 

With the exception of those to Taiwan, no shipments are being made 
to China, North Korea, and Communist-controlled area of Vietnam. 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

The number of sets of U.S. official publications received by the 
Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the official 
publications sent by foreign govermnents for deposit in the Library 
of Congress is now 106 (63 full and 43 partial sets), listed below. 
Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the footnotes. 

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS 

Abgeniina: Divisi6n Biblioteea, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, 

Buenos Aires. 
Australia: CJommon wealth National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Qub:ensland : Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Austbaija : Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 

Tasmanla.: Parliamentary Library, Ilobart 

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, ^Melbourne. 

Western Australia : State Library, Perth. 
Austria : Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna. 
Belgium : Bibliothoque Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil : Biblioteea Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 199 

BuLGABiA : Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia/ 
Burma : Government Book Depot, Rangoon. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba : Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontajrio : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Ceylon : Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo. 
Chile : Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 
China : National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan. 

National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 
Costa Rica : Biblioteca Nacional, San Jos6. 
Cuba : Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia: University Library, Prague. 

Denmark : Institut Danois des Echanges Internationa ux, Copenhagen. 
Egypt : Bureau des Publications, Ministere des Finances, Cairo. 
Finland : Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 
France : Biblioth^que Nationale, Paris. 
Germany : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dablem. 

Parliamentary Library, Bonn. 
Greiat Britain : 

England : British Museum, London. 

London: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council. ) 
Hungary : Library of Parliament, Budapest.* 
India : National Library, Calcutta. 

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi. 

Parliament Library, New Delhi. 
Indonesia : Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta. 
Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Israel : State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem. 
Italy : Minister© della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome. 
Japan : National Diet Library, Tokyo.* 
Mexico : Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departmento de Informaci6n para 

el Extranjero Mexico, D.F. 
Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 
New Ze:aland : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo. 

Peru: Seccion de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 
teriores, Lima. 
Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 
Poland : Biblioth&que Nationale, Warsaw.* 
Portugal: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Spain : Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid. 
Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 
Switzerland : Biblioth&que Centrale F6d6rale, Berne. 
Turkey: National Library, Ankara. 

Union of South Africa : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow. 



* Shipment suspended. 

* Receives two sets. 

536608—60 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SAHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

United Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 
Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 
Yugoslavia : Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.' 

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS 

Afghanistan : Library of tlie Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Belaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 
Brazil: Minas Geeias: Departmento Estadul de Estatistica, Belo Horizonte. 
British Guiana: Government Secretary's OflSce, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Canada : 

Alberta: Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia : Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Newfoundland : Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John's. 

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Dominican Republic : Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad 

TrujUlo. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
El Salvador: 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Miuisterio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Greece : National Library, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Bibliothfeque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : 

Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland : National Library, Reykjavik. 
India: 

Bombay : Secretary to the Government, Bombay. 

Bihar : Revenue Department, Patna. 

Uttab Pradesh : 

University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Secretariat Library, Lucknow. 

West Bengal: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly 
House, Calcutta. 
Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Iraq : Public Library, Baghdad. 
Jamaica : 

Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew. 
Lebanon : American University of Beirut, Beirut. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 

Malaya : Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur. 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valletta. 
Nicaragua : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Pakistan : Central Secretariat Library, Karachi. 
Panama : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccifin Biblioteca, Asuneifin. 
Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 201 

Scotland : National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh. 

SiAM : National Library, Bangkok. 

Singapore : Chief Secretaiy, Government Offices, Singapore. 

Sudan : Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum. 

Vatican City : Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFHCIAL JOURNAL 

There are now being sent abroad 85 copies of the Federal Register 
and 95 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over 
the preceding year of five copies of the Federal Register and of four 
copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which these 
journals are being forwarded are given in the following list : 

depositories of congressional record and federal register 

Argentina : 

Biblioteca de la H. Legislatura de Mendoza, Mendoza." 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.* 

Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc- 
cion PQblica, Buenos Aires. 

Cdmara de Diputados Oficina de Informacidn Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : 

Commonwealth National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland: Chief Secretai-y's Office, Brisbane. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.* 

Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Brazil : Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.* 
British Honduras : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Ceylon : Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.* 
Chile : Biblioteca del Oongreso Nacional, Santiago.* * 
China : 

Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan." 

Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Cuba: 

Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana. 

Biblioteca PGblica Panamericana, Habana.* 
Czechoslovakia : Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved, Prague.* 
Egypt : Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.* 
France : 

Biblioth^que Assembl^e Nationale, Paris. 

Bibliotheque Conseil de la R^publique, Paris. 

Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.' 

Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.* 

Service de la Documentation Etrangere, Assembl^e Nationale, Paris.* 



• Congressional Record only. 

* Federal Register only. 

" Added during the year. 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Germany : 

Amerika-Institute der Universitat Miinchen, Miinchen.' 

Archiv, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn. 

Bibliothek der lustituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitat Kiel, Kiel- 
Wik. 

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.' 

Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.' ' 

Deutsches Institut fiir Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.' 

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.' 

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.' 

Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg. 
Ghana : Chief Secretary's Office, Accra.* 
Great Britain : 

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London. 

House of Commons Library, London.' 

N.P.P. Warehouse, H.M. Stationery Office, London.' ' 

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, Loudon. 

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.' 
Greece: Bibliotheque, Chambre des Deputes Hell^nique, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Haiti: Bibliotheque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary : National Library, Budapest. 
India : 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.* 

Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.' 

Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.' 

Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.' 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces. 

Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum.' * 

Madras State Legislature, Madras.' 

Parliament Library, New Delhi. 

Servants of Indian Society, Poona.* 
Irexand : Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Israel : Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem. 
Italy : 

Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome. 

Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome.* 

International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.* 
Japan : 

Library of the National Diet, Tokyo. 

Ministry of Finance, Tokyo. 
Jordan : Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.' 
Korea : Secretary General, National Assembly, Seoul. 
Luxembourg : Assembl^e Commune de la C.E.C.A., Luxembourg. 



« Three copies. 

' Two copies. 

* Changed from Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 203 

Mexico : 

Direcci6n General Information, Secretaria de Gobernacidn, Mexico, D.F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D.F. 

Agtjascalientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Baja Califoknia : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

Chiapas : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Guiti(5rrez. 

Chihuahua : Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

CoAiiuiLA : Periodico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

CoLiMA : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.* 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

MEXICO : Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

MichoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Miochoacfin, 
Morelia. 

MoBELOs : Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Nayarit : Gobernador de Xayarit, Tepic. 

NuEvo Le6n : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey. 

Oaxaca : PeriOdico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.* 

PuEBLA : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuEBETABo: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archive, Quer^taro. 

SiNALOA : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacdn. 

Sonoba: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tamaulipas : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Veracruz : Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober- 
naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 

Yucatan : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatdn, M^rida. 
Netherlands : Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.' 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
NoEWAY : Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo. 
Panama : Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.' 
Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila. 
Poland : Kancelaria Rady, Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmova, Warsaw. 
Portuguese Timor : ReparticHo Central de Administragao Civil, Dili.' 
Rhodesia and Nyasaland : Federal Assembly, Salisbury.* * 
Rumania : Biblioteca Centrala de Stat RPR, Bucharest.' 
Spain : Secretaria General Tecnica, Presidencia del Gobierno, Madrid.* ^ 
Switzerland : Bibllothfeque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.* 

International Labor OflSce, Geneva.* ^ 

Library, United Nations, Geneva. 
Union of South Africa : 

Cape of Good Hope : Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 

Transvaal : State Library, Pretoria. 
Union of Soviet •Socialist Republics : Fundamental'niia Biblioteka Obschest- 

vennykh Nauk, Moscow. 
Uruguay : Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Yugoslavia : Bibilograf ski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade." ' 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES 

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below 
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries. 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded 
directly by mail. 

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES 

AusTBiA : Austrian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium : Service des ;fichanges Internationaux, Bibliothdque Royale de Bel- 
giqiie, Bruxelles. 

China : National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan. 

Czechoslovakia: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library, 
Prague. 

Denmabk: Institut Danois des ^changes Internationaux, BibliothSque Royale, 
Copenhagen. 

Egypt : Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo. 

Finland : Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki. 

France: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth^que Nationale, Paris. 

Gebmant (Eastern) : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Geemany (Western) : Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg. 

HuNGABY : National Library, Sz6ch6nyi, Budapest. 

India : Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 

Indonesia : Minister of Education, Djakarta. 

ISBAEL : Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Italy : Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, 
Rome. 

Japan : Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo. 

Korea : Korean Library Association, Seoul." 

Netherlands : International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li- 
brary, The Hague. 

New South "Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zeaj^and : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway: Service Norv^gien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothfeque de 
rUniversit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 

Poland : Service Polonais des ^changes Internationaux, BibliothSque Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Portugal, : Secgao de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensland: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu- 
charest. 

South Austbat.ta : South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain : Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicion de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote- 
cas Piiblicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzebland: Service Suisse des lilchanges Internationaux, BibliothSque Cen- 
trale F^d^rale, Palais F6d6ral, Berne. 

Tasmania : Secretary of the Premier, Hobart. 

Tubket: National Library, Ankara. 

Union of South Africa: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape 
Town. 



■> Changed from Korean National Commission for UNESCO, SeouL 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 205 

Union of Soviet 'SocxiLisT Repijblics : Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin 

Library, Moscow. 
Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 
Western Australia : Sate Library, Perth, 
Yugoslavia : Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade. 

Respectfully submitted. 



Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



J. A. Collins, Chief. 



Report on the National Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, 
the 22d annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 1959. This report is made pursuant to the pro- 
visions of section 5(d) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress, 
1st session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51) . 

ORGANIZATION 

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre- 
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. On May 6, 1959, Rush H. Kress 
was reelected a general trustee of the National Gallery of Art to serve 
in that capacity for the term expiring July 1, 1969. The four other 
general trustees continuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1959, were Chester Dale, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan 
Pliillips, and Paul Mellon. On May 7, 1959, Chester Dale was re- 
elected by the Board of Trustees to serve as President of the Gallery 
and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was reelected Vice President. 

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1959, are as 
follows : 

Huntington Cairns, "Secretary-Treas- Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator. 

urer, Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 

John Walker, Director. Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator. 

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the 
annual meeting on May 7, 1959, are as follows : 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Chief Justice of the United States, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Earl Warren, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael, 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Secretary of the Treasury, Robert B. Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Anderson, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael. 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Paul Mellon. 

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman. Paul Mellon. 
Duncan Phillips. John Walker. 

Chester Dale. 

206 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 207 

At the close of tlie fiscal year full-time Government employees on 
the staff of the National Gallery of Art numbered 299, as compared 
with 317 employees at the close of the previous year. The U.S. civil 
service regulations govern the appointment of employees paid from 
appropriated public funds. 

During the year the Civil Service Commission inspected the per- 
sonnel management operations of the National Gallery of Art. Sug- 
gestions made during that inspection are being incorporated into the 
personnel management program. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959, Congress in the regular 
annual appropriation for the National Gallery of Art provided 
$1,674,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and 
upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired 
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident 
thereto, as authorized by joint resolution of Congress approved March 
24, 1937 (20 U.S.C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51). Congress also included 
in a supplemental appropriation act $116,100 to cover pay increases 
not provided for in the regular appropriation. The total appropria- 
tion for the fiscal year was $1,790,100. The following expenditures 
and encumbrances were incurred : 

Personal services $1, 452, 022 

Other than personal services 338, 004 

Unobligated balance 74 

Total 1, 790, 100 

ATTENDANCE 

There were 951,608 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year 
1959, an increase of 38,127 over the total attendance of 913,481 for 
the fiscal year 1958. The average daily nmnber of visitors was 2,622. 

ACCESSIONS 

There were 370 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts, 
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year. 

Gifts 

During the year the following gifts or bequests were accepted by 
the Board of Trustees : 



208 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITTJTION, 1959 



PAINTINGS 



Donor Artist 

Chester Dale Monet 

Syma BusieL. Rubens 



Lewis Einstein Guardi 

A valon Foundation Copley 

Miss Harriet Winslow George Cuitt, the 

Younger. 

Mrs. Edith Stuyvesant Manet. 

Gerry, 

Do Whistler 

Do Whistler. _.. 

Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Bauman 

Garbisch. 

Do Bauman 

Do Bradley 

Do Brown 

Do Haddoca 

Do Toole. 

Do Unknown 



Do Unknown. 

Do Unknown. 

Do Unknown. 

Do Unknown. 

Do Unknown. 

Do Unknown. 



Do Unknown 

SCULPTURE 

Lessing J. Rosenwald Daumier 



Do Daumier. 



Title 

Morning Haze. 

The Meeting of Abraham 
and Melchizedek. 

San Marco. 

Epes Sargent. 

Easby Abbey, near Rich- 
mond. 

The Tragedian (Portrait of 
Rouviere as Hamlet). 

Self-portrait. 

George W. Vanderbilt. 

Geese in Flight. 

U.S. Mail Boat. 

Little Girl in Lavender. 

Bareback Riders. 

Red Jacket. 

Skating Scene. 

Burning of Old South 

Church, Bath, Maine. 
Cat and Kittens. 
The Cheney Family, 
Family Burying Ground. 
Martha, 
(Mrs.) Aphia SaUsburyRich 

and Baby Edward. 
Twenty-two Houses and a 

Church, 
Village by the River. 

Le Confident. 
Le Reprdsentant. 



PRINTS AND DRAWINGS 



During the year Lessing J. Rosenwald increased his gift to the 
Gallery by 198 additional prints and drawings. Four etcliings by 
Breitner were given to the Gallery by the Rijksmuseum, The Nether- 
lands. Two prints were also given by Mrs. Andrew G. Carey to 
be added to the Addie Burr Clark Memorial Collection. 

OTHER GIFTS 

Gifts of money were made during the fiscal year 1959 by the Old 
Dominion Foundation, Avalon Foundation, Mr. and Mrs. W. Ran- 
dolph Burgess, Mrs. Tracy C. Dickson, Jr., and James E, Boudreau, 

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART 

In exchange for five paintings, the Samuel H, Kress Foundation 
gave the National Gallery of Art the following notable paintings: 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 209 

Artist Title 

Master of F16malle MadonBa and Child with Saints in the Enclosed Garden, 
and Assistants. 

El Greco The Holy Family, 

Cranach Portrait of a Man. 

Cranach Portrait of a Woman. 

Koerbecke The Ascension. 

Veronese The Annunciation. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN 

The following works of art were received on loan by the Gallery : 

From Artist Title 

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y. Vuillard The Visit. 

Do Bakst Ida Rubenstein. 

Do -- Monet The Seine at Giverny. 

Do Bellows __ Blue Morning. 

Do Domergue Mrs. Dale. 

Do Gros Dr. Vignardonne. 

Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Earl Mrs. Noah Smith and Her 

Garbisch, New York, Five Children. 
N.Y. 

Mr. and Mrs. Carleton Van Gogh The Stevedores. 

Mitchell, Annapohs, Md. 

Do Cezanne. Man with Crossed Arms. 

The Samuel H. Kress Foun- Massys Salvator Mundi. 

dation. New York, N.Y. 

Do Magnasco Bay with Shipwreck. 

Do Correggio Salvator Mundi. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED 

The followmg works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal 
year : 

To Artist Title 

The Samuel H. Kress Foun- Ferrucci Madonna and Child. 

dation. New York, N.Y. 

Do Tino di Camaino Madonna and Child. 

Do Pintoricchio Madonna and Child. 

Do Sienese School Madonna and Child with St. 

Bartholomew and St. John 
the Baptist. 

Do Neroccio de' Landi _ The Battle of Actium. 

Do .- Francesco di The Visit of Cleopatra to 

Giorgio. Anthony. 

Do Master of the Jarves The Triumph of Chastity. 

Cassoni. 

Do Guariento Madonna and Child with 

Four Saints. 

Do Segna di Madonna and Child. 

Buonaventura. 

Do Catena Portrait of a Woman. 

Do Veronese The Baptism of Christ. 

Do Botticelli Madonna and Child. 

Do Bonfigli Madonna and Child En- 
throned. 
Do_. _ Rigaud President Hubert. 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

From Artist Titte 

Chester Dale, New York, Derain _ Portrait of a Girl. 

N.Y. 

Do Flemish School XVI Portrait of a Woman. 

Century. 

Do German School XVI Portrait of a Girl. 

Century. 

Do Pisanello, Style of.. Portrait of a Woman. 

Arnold W. Knauth II, Rock- Copley Epes Sargent. 

port, Mass. 

Robert Woods Bliss, Wash- 19 objects of Pre-Co- 

ington, D.C. lumbian Art. 

WORKS OF ART LENT 

During the fiscal year the Gallery lent the following works of art 
for exhibition purposes: 

To Artist Title 

The Metropolitan Museum Homer Breezing Up. 

of Art, New York, N.Y. 

Do Homer Hound and Hunter. 

Do Homer Right and Left. 

Do Boucher TSte-^-Tdte (drawing). 

Do Moreau le Jeune Qui ou Non (drawing). 

Museum of Fine Arts, Bos- Homer Breezing Up. 

ton, Mass. 

Do Homer Hound and Hunter. 

Do Homer Right and Left. 

Boy mans Museum, Rotter- Boucher Tlte-^-T6te (drawing). 

dam, and the Orangerie, 
Paris. 

Do _ _ Moreau le Jeune Qui ou Non (drawing). 

Westmoreland County Mu- Park Flax Scutching Bee. 

seum, Greensburg, Pa. 

Pennsylvania Historical Mu- Eichholtz Mrs. Phoebe Freeman. 

seum Commission, Har- 
risburg. Pa. 

Do Eichholtz James P. Smith. 

Do Eichholtz Henry Eichholtz Leman. 

Do Eichholtz William Clark Frazer. 

Chatham College, Pitts- Copley The Death of the Earl of 

burgh. Pa. Chatham. 

Birmingham Museum of Stuart Greorge Washington 

Art, Birmingham, Ala. (Vaughan-Sinclair). 

Smallwood Foundation, Inc., Pine General William Smallwood. 

Faulkner, Md. 

U.S. Supreme Court, Wash- George Cuitt, the Easby Abbey, near Rich- 

ington, D.C. Younger. mond. 

Woodlawn Plantation, Mount Polk General Washington at 

Vernon, Va. Princeton. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 211 

EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art 
during the fiscal year 1959: 

Etchings and Lithographs by Redon, from the Rosenwald collection. July 17, 

1958, through December 7, 1958. 
Drawings and Prints by Rembrandt, from the Rosenwald and Widener 

collections. August 1, 1958, through September 21, 1958. 
Dutch Drawings — Masterpieces from Five Centuries, a special loan exhibition 

of 148 Dutch drawings, the most important ever shown in this country. 

October 5, 1958, through October 26, 1958. 
Winslow Homer — A Retrospective Exhibition, the Gallery's second one-man 

show in honor of a leading American painter. November 23, 1958, through 

January 4, 1959. 
Christmas Prints, gift of W. G. Russell Allen and from the Rosenwald 

collection. December 8, 1958, through March 23, 1959. 
Whistler Etchings, gift of Mr. and Mrs. J. Watson Webb. March 23, 1959, 

through June 23, 1959. 
Masterpieces of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist Painting, loan exhibi- 
tion of French 19th-century paintings from private collections, celebrating 

the 50th anniversary of the founding of the American Federation of Arts 

and honoring the meetings of the International Chamber of Commerce. 

April 25, 1959, through May 24, 1959. 
Etchings and Mezzotints from Turner's Liber Studiorum, gift of Miss Ellen T. 

Bullard and from the Rosenwald collection. June 25, 1959, to continue into 

the next fiscal year. 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Rosenwald collection. — Special exhibitions of prints from the 
Rosenwald collection were circulated to the following places during 
the fiscal year 1959: 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, Washington, D.C. : 

Contemporary German Prints. Exhibition tour extended through the fiscal 

year 1959. (Tour started October 1956.) 
George Bellows — Prints and Drawings. 19 prints. Continued until January 
30, 1959. (Tour started March 1957.) 
American Federation of Arts, New York, N.Y. : 

The Life of Christ in Prints. 50 prints. Continued until February 10, 1959. 
(Tour started October 1957.) 
Arts Council of Great Britain : 

Two prints by Hayter lent to a touring exhibition of Hayter's work 
starting in the fiscal year 1958 and continuing through July 1958. 
Museum of Art of Ogxinquit, Maine : 

Fourteen prints and drawings by Mary Cassatt. Exhibition starting in 
the fiscal year 1958 and continuing through the first week of September 
1958. 
Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. : 

Daumier Anniversary Exhibition. 8 drawings and 35 prints by Daumier; 
also 8 bronzes by Daumier given by Mr. Rosenwald. July 1 through 
October 1, 1958. 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 1959 

National Museum of Modern Art, Mexico City, Mexico : 

Inaugural Exhibition. 50 modem prints. September 1958 through April 
1959. 
Marion Koogler McNay Art Institute, San Antonio, Tex. : 

Twenty-nine prints by Picasso. September and October 1958. 
Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. : 

Five Daumier busts in Rosenwald Collection. August through October 1958. 
Sunday School Board, Southern Baptist Convention, Nashville, Tenn. : 

Twenty prints. September 10 to November 10, 1958. 
St. George's School, Newport, R.I. : 

Fourteen prints. October 15 through November 15, 1958. 
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. : 

Exhibition of Daumier lithographs and sculpture. 1 woodblock, 5 bronzes, 
25 prints and drawings. November and December 1958. 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, Washington, D.C. : 

Dutch Drawing Exhibition. One Dutch miniature. November 1958 through 
April 1959. 
Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich. : 

Decorative Arts of the Italian Renaissance. One engraving. November 17, 
1958 through January 6, 1959. 
Everhart Museum, Scranton, Pa. : 

Christmas Exhibition. 20 prints. Last week of November through Decem- 
ber 1958. 
Isaac Delgado Museum of Art, New Orleans, La. : 

Life of Christ. 52 prints. December 7 through December 28, 1958. 
The University of Nebraska Art Galleries, Lincoln, Nebr. : 

Twenty-six prints. January 16 through February 13, 1959. 
The University of Kansas Museinn, Lawrence, Kans. : 

Two prints. January 18 through March 1, 1959. 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N.Y. : 

Homer Exhibition. One lithograph by Homer. January 29 through March 
8, 1959. 
Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, 111. : 

Gauguin Exhibition. Two monotypes by Gauguin. February and March 
1959. 
Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind. : 

Twenty-five prints. February 15 through April 5, 1959. 
Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, Fredericksburg, Va. : 

Seventeen prints illustrating antique musical instruments. March 10 
through March 31, 1959. 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N.Y. : 

Gauguin Exhibition. Two monotypes by Gauguin. April through May 1959. 
Hillel Foundation at Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pa.: 

Twenty-six prints on biblical themes. April 1 through April 15, 1959. 
Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. : 

The American Muse. One Audubon print. April 3 through May 17, 1959. 
Gallaudet College, Washington, D.C. : 

Three prints by Cadwallader Washburn. April 11 through June 8, 1959. 
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va. : 

Twenty-four prints with subjects related to the law for an exhibition com- 
memorating the introduction of Common Law in the Colonies. May 14 
through June 14, 1959. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



213 



Index of American Design. — During the fiscal year 1959, 27 travel- 
ing exhibitions (including 1,498 plates) with 44 bookings were 
circulated to Germany and the following States : 



Btate 

Alabama 

Connecticut 

District of Columbia. 

Florida 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Maryland 

Minnesota 

New York 



Numl)er of 
exhibitions 

1 

2 

2 

2 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1 



State 

North Carolina. 
Ohio 



Number of 
ewhibitiona 

1 

4 



Pennsylvania 7 

Rhode Island 1 

Tennessee 1 

Texas 4 

Utah S 

Virginia 8 

West Virginia 1 



CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

Under the direction of Dr. Perry B. Cott, chief curator, the cura- 
torial department accessioned 238 gifts to the Gallery during the 
fiscal year 1959. Advice was given regarding 381 works of art brought 
to the Gallery for expert opinion and 18 visits to collections were made 
by members of the staff in connection with offers of gifts. About 
2,200 inquiries requiring research were answered verbally and by 
letter. 

William P. Campbell, curator of painting, lectured on Early Amer- 
ican Masterpieces in the National Gallery of Art at the Williamsburg 
Antiques Forum. 

During the year members of the curatorial staff assisted in the 
judging of the following art exhibitions: Dr. Fern Rusk Shapley: 
Conservative C onteTnforary Art at the State Fair in Birmingham, 
Ala., and Virginia Artists at Vienna, Va. ; Dr. H. lister Cooke : Ex- 
hibitions sponsored by the Waterford Art Society, Virginia, Wilming- 
ton Society of the Fine Arts, and the USIA exhibition of Washington 
artists; Thomas P. Baird: Delmarva Chicken Festival, Dover, Del.; 
Ralph T. Coe: Exhibition held at The Plains, Va. 

The Richter Archives received and cataloged over 700 photographs 
on exchange from museums here and abroad, and 3,055 photographs 
were purchased for the Richter Archives. 

RESTORATION 

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular 
and systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery, and 
periodically removed dust and bloom as required. He relined 11 
paintings and gave special treatment to 38 paintings and 2 pieces of 
sculpture. Nineteen paintings were X-rayed as an aid in research. 
Experiments were continued with synthetic varnishes, and a fluores- 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

cent light rack was built to test the fading of paints and pigments in 
cooperation with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Eesearch, Pitts- 
burgh, Pa. In September, Mr. Sullivan attended a seminar held in 
Boston, Mass., on "Application of Science in Examination of Works 
of Art." In the spring he also made trips to New York, Bryn Athyn, 
Pa., and Annapolis, Md., to supervise the collecting and return of 
paintings for the exhibition "Masterpieces of Impressionist and Post- 
Impressionist Painting." Technical advice on condition and care of 
paintings was given when works of art were brought to the Gallery, 
and such technical information as could be given when requested by 
the public. He inspected all Gallery paintings on loan in Government 
buildings in Washington, and also gave advice on the special treatment 
of works of art belonging to Government agencies, including the 
Capitol, the "VYliite House, the Supreme Court, the State Department, 
the Treasury, the Department of the Interior, the Maritime Com- 
mission, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Freer Gallery of Art. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Dr. Perry B. Cott, chief curator, contributed an article entitled "A 
Note on Houdon's Bust of Diana" to Studies in the History of Art 
dedicated to William E. Suida on his 80th birthday, 1959. He also 
wrote an article for the World Booh Encyclopedia on the "Art 
Museum." 

Dr. Fern Rusk Shapley, assistant chief curator, also contributed 
an article entitled "Baldassare d' Este and a Portrait of Francesco II 
Gonzaga" to Studies in the History of Art dedicated to William E. 
Suida. 

Dr. H. Lester Cooke, museum curator, wrote the following arti- 
cles : "The Art of Edward Hopper," America Hlustrated, 1959, No. 
32; "The Art of George Bellows," American Magazine^ May 1959; 
and the introduction to a catalog of an exhibition of Washington 
artists sent to Europe by USIA. 

Ralph T. Coe, museum curator, contributed an article entitled "Im- 
pressionists in Washington" to the Burlington Magazine^ June 1959. 

During the fiscal year 1959 the Publications Fund published one 
new 11- by 14-inch color reproduction and eight new color and five 
new black-and-white Christmas cards. A large pochoir reproduc- 
tion of a picture of the National Gallery of Art building was pub- 
lished by an outside publisher and was placed on sale by the fund. 
Fifteen new 2- by 2-inch color-slide subjects were added to the selec- 
tion available, and two more sets of slides were issued. 

Color plates of five new subjects for 11- by 14-inch prints were com- 
pleted during the year, and, in addition, work was begun on color 



Secretary's Report, 1959 



PUATE 7 




1. The Meeting of Abraham and Melchizedek: Peter Paul Rubens. Gift of Syma Busiel, 

National Gallery of Art. 




2. Madonna and Child with Saints in the Enclosed Gardens: Master of Flemalle and 
Assistants. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report , 1 '>59 



PLATE 8 





Secretary's Report, 1959 



PLATE 9 




The Holy Family: El Greco. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report, 1 959 





6 < 



O rt 



w 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 215 

plates for a series of booklets to be issued by the Publications Fund 
on the schools of painting represented in the Gallery. 

The publications sales rooms operated by the Publications Fund 
enjoyed their busiest year, serving 184,254 individuals, organizations, 
etc. 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

The program of the Educational Office was carried out under the 
supervision of Dr. Raymond S. Stites, curator in charge of educa- 
tional work, and his staff, who lectured and conducted tours in the 
Gallery on the works of art in its collections. 

The attendance for the general tours, Tours of the Week, and Pic- 
ture of the Week talks totaled 40,532 persons ; while that of the audi- 
torium lectures on Sunday afternoon totaled 14,515 persons. 

Tours, lectures, and conferences were arranged by special appoint- 
ment for 340 groups and individuals. The total number of persons 
served in this manner was 11,585, an increase over last year of 3,488 
persons. These special appointments were made for such groups as 
the various governmental agencies, educators (both foreign and 
American), religious groups. Girl Scouts, 4-H Clubs, convention 
groups, and members of the radio and television industry. 

The program for the training of volunteer docents continued, and 
during the fiscal year 1959 special instruction was given to 100 women 
under the general supervision of the curator in charge of educational 
work. By special arrangement with the school systems of the District 
of Columbia and surrounding counties of Maryland and Virginia 
these women conducted tours for 1,546 classes with a total of 40,355 
children — an increase over last year of 7,807 children visiting the Na- 
tional Gallery. 

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 23 lectures in the audi- 
torium on Sunday afternoons and 24 lectures were given by guest 
speakers. During the month of April and the first two Sundays in 
May, the Eighth Annual Series of the A. W. Mellon Lectures in the 
Fine Arts was delivered by the noted sculptor Naum Gabo, whose 
subject was "A Sculptor's View of the Fine Arts." 

The Educational Office continued to circulate the nine sets of travel- 
ing exhibitions to schools, clubs, libraries, and universities throughout 
the country, free of charge except for transportation costs. These 
were viewed by a total of 20,000 persons during the year. Fifteen 
copies of the old National Gallery of Art film "Your National Gallery 
of Art" were borrowed 34 times through distribution centers, and 
the new film "Art in the Western World" was borrowed 26 times by 
local borrowers. 



536608 — 60 15 



216 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The Educational Office continued the sale of slide strips, and during 
the year a total of 80 sets were sold. The sale of the filmstrip "The 
Art of the Florentine Golden Age in the National Gallery of Art" 
totaled 30 sets. 

A total of 1,750 slides were added to the slide collections during 
the year, and the slide library now contains 37,492 slides. A total of 
10,982 slides were lent to 378 borrowers and seen by approximately 
11,340 viewers. There was an increase of 143 borrowers over last 
year, and a total of 3,743 more slides lent. A number of slide lecture 
sets with text are available for loan. 

Members of the staff prepared 6 more leaflets on works of art in 
individual galleries, and prepared mimeographed material for school 
groups, as well as undertaking the preparation of three illustrated 27- 
page booklets for sale at the publications sales rooms. 

A printed calendar of events announcing all Gallery activities and 
publications was prepared by the Educational Office and distributed 
monthly to a mailing list of 6,800 names. This is an increase over last 
year of 1,100 names. 

The staff members prepared and delivered twenty-nine 10-minute 
talks over station WGMS during intermission of the National Gallery 
of Art concerts broadcasts. 

The curator in charge of educational work delivered lectures to 
several university, church, and club groups, gave two talks over 
WMAT^TV for the National Council of Churches, appeared on TV 
in Providence, R.I., in a lecture on American art, and judged an 
art exhibition at the Navy Department. 

Grose Evans taught an evening course at George Washington Uni- 
versity, delivered a number of outside lectures, and acted as judge 
for several art contests in the area. 

Margaret Bouton taught evening courses in art at American 
University. 

Dorothea Michelson delivered a talk at the National Housing 
Center. 

Hugh Broadley taught an evening course in American art at 
American University. 

LIBRARY 

Important acquisitions to the library, recorded by Miss Ruth E. 
Carlson, librarian, and her staff, included 607 books, pamphlets, 
periodicals, subscriptions, and a group of 7,998 photographs purchased 
from private funds. 

A total of 44 books and subscriptions were purchased from Gov- 
ernment funds made available for this purpose. Gifts to the library 
included 773 books and pamphlets; 1,024 books, pamphlets, period- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 217 

icals, and bulletins were received on exchange from other institutions. 
During the fiscal year the library cataloged 3,307 publications, and 
1,984 periodicals were recorded ; 12,177 catalog cards were fi.led. The 
library borrowed 1,385 books on interlibrary loan; the Library of 
Congress lent 1,333 books. 

The library is the depository for photographs of the works of art 
in the National Gallery of Art's collections. A stock of reproduc- 
tions is maintained for use in research, for exchange with other in- 
stitutions, and for sale to interested individuals. Approximately 
6,300 photographs were received and processed in the library during 
the year. The library filled 1,143 orders for these photographs. 
Sales to the general public amounted to $1,195, covering about 1,600 
photographs. There were 303 permits for reproduction of 783 sub- 
jects processed in the library. 

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

During the fiscal year the work of the Index continued as usual, 
under the direction of Dr. Erwin O. Christensen, curator. Twenty 
sets (1,020 slides) of color slides in 65 bookings were circulated 
throughout the country. Regular sets were lent for lecture and 
study purposes. Notes were completed for one additional set of 
slides on furniture. Three new lectures were completed on Index 
material, and 1,003 photographs of Index material were used for 
exhibition and study purposes, as well as for publicity, and purchase 
by the public. The photographic file of the Index material has been 
increased by 1,650 prints. Approximately 406 persons studied Index 
material for research purposes, and to gather material for publication 
and design. 

Dr. Christensen continued to participate in the orientation program 
of the USIA personnel. The card-file index of the Index renderings 
was completed last year and an inventory of all photogi-aphs was 
begim. The curator of the Index prepared a report on the completion 
of the Index. 

In all, 357 photographs of New England gravestone carvings, dating 
from 1653 to 1810, and 5 photographs of wood statues were given to 
the Gallery by Saul Ludwig of Montclair, N.J., and Mrs. Hugh 
De Witt of Stanford, Calif., respectively, for the Index of American 
Design. 

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

The Gallery building, the mechanical equipment, and its grounds 
were maintained at the established standards throughout the year, 
under the direction of Ernest E. Feidler, administrator, and his 
staff. 



218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Lectour, the electronic guide system, was installed in 10 additional 
galleries. Several of the installations were experimental in that the 
electronic guide system was introduced in adjacent galleries. Here- 
tofore, in similar installations elsewhere and in the National Gallery 
of Art, service in adjacent galleries was deemed impractiable because 
of "crosstalk." This problem was solved in the new installations made 
during this past fiscal year. 

The roofing over the Seventh and Fourth Street entrances and 
around the base of the dome, which had begun to deteriorate after 
19 years of service, was replaced with roofing of improved design. 

Permanent and improved floodlighting on the north portico and 
adjacent to the flagpoles replaced the temporary lighting developed 
for the 15th anniversary of the Gallery in 1956. This permanent 
floodlighting illuminates the central portion of the building on the 
north side. 

The A.D.T. Aero Fire Alarm System was extended to the registrar's 
storeroom. 

There was continued expansion of the Gallery's horticulture pro- 
gram with the result that extraordinary displays of flowering plants 
were available for the Christmas and Easter seasons and several im- 
portant night openings. 

LECTOUR 

Lectour was installed and used successfully in two special exhibi- 
tions, and one foreign-language broadcast was prepared for a special 
group visit. 

Lectour was used by 72,793 Gallery visitors during the fiscal year 
1959. The system is being used progressively more extensively by 
visitors, as evidenced by the fact that in the last month of the fiscal 
year 1958 the percentage of visitors using Lectour was 6.3 percent, 
whereas the latter part of this year the percentage rose to 9.7 percent. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Forty Sunday-evening concerts were given during the fiscal year 
in the east garden court, including nine concerts by the National Gal- 
lery of Art Orchestra under the direction of Richard Bales, two of 
which were made possible by the Music Performance Trust Fund of 
the American Federation of Musicians. A string orchestra under 
Mr, Bales's direction furnished music during the opening of the Dutch 
Exhibition on October 4, 1958, and during the opening of the Wins- 
low Homer Exhibition on November 22, 1958. The National Gallery 
of Art orchestra with the Church of the Reformation cantata choir 
presented Mr. Bales's two cantatas, "The Confederacy" and "The 
Union," at the Watergate on July 30, 1958. On June 3, 1959, the 
National Gallery orchestra presented a concert at the Watergate in 
honor of the Governor of Casablanca (both concerts were paid for 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 219 

by the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American Federation of 
Musicians) . Mr. Bales appeared as guest conductor at a number of 
concerts in several cities throughout the United States during the 
year. Special concerts were held to commemorate United Nations 
Day and the Lincoln Sesquicentennial. 

Four Sunday evenings during May 1959 were devoted to the Gal- 
lery's 16th American Music Festival. All concerts were broadcast 
in their entirety in stereophonic sound by station WGMS-AM and 
FM, Washington. The Voice of America regularly received portions 
of the Sunday evening concerts for transmission overseas. The in- 
termissions during Sunday evening concerts featured discussions by 
members of the Educational Office staff and Mr. Bales. 

During the fiscal year, 4,103 copies of 14 press releases in connection 
with the Gallery's activities were approved and issued by Director 
John Walker. In all, 148 permits to copy and 121 pennits to photo- 
graph works of art in the Gallery were also issued. 

During the fiscal year, in response to requests from Senators and 
Congressmen, 9,872 copies of the pamphlet "A Cordial Invitation 
from the Director" and 9,636 copies of the National Gallery of Art 
Information Booklet were sent for distribution to their constituents ; 
29,800 copies of "A Cordial Invitation from the Director" were sent 
to various organizations holding conventions in the Washington area. 

During this fiscal year, the slide project begun in the fiscal year 
1958 was carried to completion and sets of 500 color slides were sent 
to 114 colleges and miiversities having departments in the History 
of Art, and to museums having slide-lending services. This program 
was initiated in order to make slides of the works of art in the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art available in color at a minimum cost. 

Plenry B. BeviUe, the Gallery's photographer, and his staff proc- 
essed 13,681 prints, 438 black-and-white slides, 1,121 color slides, 
1,508 black-and-white negatives, 175 sets of color-separation nega- 
tives, 345 color transparencies, 6 infrared and 2 ultraviolet photo- 
graphs during the fiscal year. 

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY 

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made foi the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1959, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination 
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be for- 
warded to the Gallery. 
Respectfully submitted, 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Library 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959 : 

Of the 52,669 publications received in the library, 2,706 were books 
and periodicals that could not be obtained in exchange. A special 
effort was made to acquire some of the much-needed reference ma- 
terials that could not be obtauied in the past. Publications were ac- 
quired to fill in special subject areas where adequate source materials 
were missing. Exchange relations with learned societies and sci- 
entific establislmients both in this country and abroad continued to 
provide their serials and monographs which comprise the backbone 
of the library's collection. New exchanges arranged this year totaled 
159, to be added to the vast number already established. Special re- 
quests for 2,359 publications were made to issuing societies and or- 
ganizations for back issues of publications needed for completing sets 
in our collections. Books and periodicals were acquired for the Canal 
Zone Biological Area and also for the Astrophysical Observatory in 
Cambridge, Mass. 

Eecommendations for the acquisition of materials are of great 
importance in enriching the collections. Many significant gifts also 
come to the library from interested individuals including members 
and friends of the Smithsonian staff. Gifts of special note included 
"Voices from the Flowery Kingdom," from Mrs. Lucille Nott; 327 
issues of philatelic journals from Alexander Halperson; 50 issues of 
the Connoisseur^ from Fred J. P. Chitty ; 3 volumes on Indian dancing 
by Leila Row Dayal; "Grundzuge der zoologischen Mikropalaon- 
tologie," Band 1, by Vladmir Pokorny. 

Controlling the vast intake of publications each year requires the 
efforts of the entire staff in evaluating the materials for retention and 
in making them readily available for use. Lack of adequate space 
necessitates the daily sorting and shipping of all extraneous and dupli- 
cate publications to other agencies. 

Beginning July 1, 1958, all publications forwarded to the Library 
of Congress were sent by transfer instead of being specifically desig- 
nated for the Smithsonian Deposit, thus eliminating unnecessary 
recordkeeping on the part of both organizations. Publications sent 
to this organization totaled 20,558, many of which were continuations 
220 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 221 

of serials and monographs that have been received regularly in ex- 
change since their first date of publication. To the National Library 
of Medicine were sent 2,378 publications, and to other Government 
libraries 714 items. 

The catalog section cataloged and classified 4,082 books and pam- 
phlets, entered 24,933 periodicals, and filed 45,485 cards. In spite of 
being short staffed and having an increased acquisitions program, the 
efforts of the catalogers to organize and plan their work have kept the 
bulk of the material moving. Efficient library service depends on a 
good catalog, and good cataloging practice is a basic requirement. 
The large number of uncataloged publications througliout the Institu- 
tion remains a major problem. The scientific and technical nature of 
these publications, many of which are in foreign languages, requires 
scholarly treatment in processing. 

The binding program continued to show vast improvements in the 
preservation and conservation of our valuable research materials. 
Through a waiver from the Government Printing Office, 8,800 volumes 
were bound or re-bound by a commercial binder under contract. A 
skilled bindery assistant repaired or hand-bound 1,851 volumes of 
materials not suitable to send to a binder. A special project is under- 
way to put call-number labels on all the library materials. This will 
facilitate the shelving and locating of books and periodicals by the 
staff and users as well. 

The program of continuous weeding and discarding of unused and 
duplicate materials is still in effect. A total of 8,901 books, pam- 
phlets, and periodicals was discarded. 

The library is frequently called upon to translate correspondence 
and miscellaneous items into English. Members of the catalog section 
translated 214 items and provided reference assistance or translations 
of obscure words and phrases. The class in scientific Kussian, taught 
by David Kay, is still in progress. 

Demands on the staff of the reference and circulation section con- 
tinued to be heavy. It is difficult to measure the various sei-vices the 
library gives in making its resources available to those who wish to 
make use of them. During the year 12,360 loans were made, plus 
9,374 volumes sent to the sectional libraries for semipermanent file. 
Since no estimate can be made of how many times books and periodi- 
cals circulate within a section, the exact nmnber of times library ma- 
terials are consulted cannot be determined. 

There were 1,158 volumes lent to Government, college, and univer- 
sity libraries ; and 3,853 volumes were borrowed from other libraries, 
chiefly the Library of Congress. 



222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Visitors to the libraiy numbered 9,202 persons who consulted the 
reference books and periodicals in the main reading room. Visiting 
research scholars used the library's facilities for checking and verify- 
ing references, and librarians and scientists from other countries came 
to acquaint themselves with the collections. The library staff an- 
swered 20,799 reference questions, which in most cases required the 
consultation of many different publications. These queries are from 
individuals who either write, telephone, or come in person to the li- 
brary, and always it is rewarding to be able to provide them with the 
desired information or refer them to an authoritative source. 

Care of the collections includes the task of relieving crowding of 
the books and keeping them clean. The addition of 26 new cases in 
the stacks of the main library has provided additional shelf space for 
the growing accumulation. Vacuuming the books and washing the 
shelves are underway in this area, and routine cleaning schedules are 
in effect in other stack areas. 

In September 1958, the branch library for the Museum of History 
and Teclmology began operation. This collection of books and jour- 
nals formerly served the staff in the Arts and Industries Building. 
The initial phase of the project of cleaning and discarding unused ma- 
terials has been completed. The specific task of making this into a 
working library is in progress with a shelf inventory started, a bind- 
ing and repairing program underway, the acquiring of necessary 
source and reference books and missing journals in process. This 
library will in the future supply source materials on the historical and 
technical development of this country. In spite of numerous handi- 
caps during the 9 months of operation, 3,498 reference questions were 
answered, 2,559 books were charged out, 999 volumes were sent to the 
bindery, and 1,042 persons who came to the library for service were 
assisted. 

It has been possible for the library to acquire some long-needed 
equipment. New microfilm reading machines and a book-copying ma- 
chine have increased the service and efficiency. Other items such as a 
new charge desk and catalog cases have improved the appearance of 
the library and the morale of the staff. The repainting of several of 
the rooms has enhanced the whole cleanup program. The value of 
these new improvements cannot be measured, but their total effect 
on individual performance is more than gratifying. 

Professional members of the staff attended the annual conventions 
of both the Special Libraries Association and the American Library 
Association, where they took advantage of the specialized activities 
that pertained to the functions of this library. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 
SUMMARIZED STATISTICS 

ACCESSIONS 



223 




Total recorded 
volumes, 1959 



Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress 

Smithsonian main library (includes former office and 

museum libraries) 

Astrophysical Observatory (includes Radiation and 

Organisms) 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

National Air Museum 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Zoological Park 



586, 722 

323, 924 

15, 078 

37, 749 

577 

14, 159 

4,287 



Total. 



982, 596 



*20,558 publications were forwarded by transfer to the Library of Congress 
without the Smithsonian Deposit stamp. 

Unbound volumes of periodicals and reprints and separates from serial publi- 
cations, of which there are many thousands, have not been included in these totals. 

EXCHANGES 

New exchanges arranged 159 

Specially requested publications received 2,359 

CATALOGING 

Volumes cataloged 4, 082 

Catalog cards filed 45,485 

PERIODICALS 

Periodical parts entered 24, 933 

CIRCULATION 

Loans of books and periodicals 21, 734 

Circulation in sectional libraries is not counted except in the Division 
of Insects. 

BINDING AND REPAIR 

Volumes sent to the bindery 8, 800 

Volumes repaired in the library 1, 851 

Respectfully submitted. 

Ruth E. Blanchard, Librarian. 
Dr. Leonard Caemichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on Publications 

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year 
ended June 30, 1959 : 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are issued partly 
from federally appropriated funds (Smithsonian Reports and publi- 
cations of the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private endow- 
ment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publications of 
the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications) . The Insti- 
tution also edits and publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery 
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint im- 
print of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution. 
The third volume in this series was in press at the close of the year. 
In addition, the Smithsonian publishes a guidebook, a picture pam- 
phlet, postcards and a postcard folder, a color-picture albmn, color 
slides, a filmstrip on Smithsonian exhibits, a coloring book for chil- 
dren, and popular publications on scientific and historical subjects 
related to its important exhibits and collections for sale to visitors. 
Through its publication program the Smithsonian endeavors to carry 
out its founder's expressed desire for the diffusion of knowledge. 

During the year the Institution published 1 whole volume and 10 
papers in the Miscellaneous Collections; 1 Annual Report of the 
Board of Regents and separates of 19 articles in the General Appen- 
dix; 1 Annual Report of the Secretary; 4 special publications; and 
reprints of 1 volume of Miscellaneous Collections and 1 special 
publication. 

The U.S. National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 4 Bulletins, 18 
Proceedings papers, and 2 special publications. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued one Annual Report and 
four Bulletins. 

The Astrophysical Observatory issued seven numbers in the series 
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics. 

The National Collection of Fine Arts published three catalogs, and 
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, under the National 
Collection of Fine Arts, published one catalog. 

The Freer Gallery of Art issued one paper in its Occasional Papers 
series, and a revised edition of one pamplilet. 

224 



SECRETART'S REPORT 225 

DISTRIBUTION 

There were distributed 580,018 copies of publications and miscella- 
neous items. Publications: 34 Contributions to Knowledge, 23,886 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 8,725 Annual Report volumes 
and 22, 528 pamphlet copies of Eeport separates, 675 War Background 
Studies, 49,684 special publications, 93 reports of the Harriman 
Alaska Expedition, 52,700 publications of the National Museum, 
27,721 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 28,170 
publications of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 583 publications 
of the Freer Gallery of Art, 14,951 publications of the Astrophysical 
Observatory, 1,581 reports of the American Historical Association, 
and 1,775 publications not issued by the Smithsonian Institution. 
Miscellaneous items: 4 sets of North American Wild Flowers and 34 
Wild Flower prints, 57 Pitcher Plant volumes, 44,230 guide books, 
19,293 picture pamphlets, 211,260 postcards and postcard folders, 
19,414 color slides, 49,660 information leaflets, and 15 New Museum 
of History and Teclmology pamphlets. There were also distributed 
366 statuettes, 2,670 Viewmaster reels, and 5 filmstrips and 4 filmstrip 
records.* 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

In this series, under the immediate editorship of Ruth B. Mac- 
Manus, there were issued one paper in volume 119, two papers in 
volume 135, two papers in volume 136, whole volume 137, four papers 
in volume 138, and one paper in volume 139, as follows : 

Volimie 119 

No. 3. Mlssissippian fauna in northwestern Sonora, by William H. Easton, John 
B. Sanders, J. Brookes Knight, and Arthur K. Miller. 87 pp., 9 pis., 4 figs. 
(Publ.4313.) Aug. 8, 1958. ($1.35.) 



No. 1. The customs and religion of the Ch'iang, by David Croclfett Graham. 

114 pp., 16 pis., 6 figs. (Publ. 4300.) Dec. 2, 1958. ($2.) 
No. 9. New American Paleozoic echinoids, by Porter M. Kier. 26 pp., 8 pis., 

22 figs. (PubL4337.) Aug. 4, 1958. (75 cents.) 



No. 1. A review of the middle and upper Eocene primates of North America, by 
O. Lewis Gazin. 112 pp., 14 pis. (Publ. 4340.) July 7, 1958. ($1.75.) 

No. 2. The journals of Daniel Noble Johnson (1822-1863), United States Navy, 
edited by Mendel L. Peterson. 268 pp., 16 pis. (Publ. 4375.) Apr. 2, 1959. 
($4.) 



* Additional copies of the Institution's filmstrip and record, "Let's Visit the Smithsonian," 
were distributed through the Society for Visual Education, Chicago, ni. 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Studies in invertebrate morphology. Published in honor of Dr. Robert Evans 
Snodgrass on the occasion of his 84th birthday, July 5, 1959. 18 articles 
by various authors. 416 pp., 49 pis., 149 figs. (Publ. 4350.) [June 19] 
1959. ($7.50.) 

Volume 138 

No. 1. Pueblo del Arroyo, Chaco Canyon, New Mexico, by Neil M. Judd. 222 

pp., 55 pis., 45 figs. (Publ. 4346.) June 26, 1959. ($4.50.) 
No. 2. Evolution of arthropod mechanisms, by R. E. Snodgrass. 77 pp., 24 figs. 

(Publ. 4347.) Nov. 28, 1958. (85 cents.) 
No. 3. Long-range weather forecasting, by C. G. Abbot. 19 pp., 11 figs. (Publ. 

4352.) Feb. 16, 1959. (30 cents.) 
No. 4. Birds of the Pleistocence in North America, by Alexander Wetmore. 24 pp. 

(Publ. 4353.) Jan. 15, 1959. (35 cents.) 



No. 1. The oldest known reptile, Eosauravus copei Williston, by Frank E. Pea- 
body. 14 pp., 1 pi., 3 figs. (Publ. 4377.) May 7, 1959. (50 cents.) 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

REPORT FOR 1957 

The complete volume of the Amiual Eeport of the Board of Kegents 
for 1957 was received from the printer on October 10, 1958 : 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
ended June 30, 1957. x-f499 pp., 74 pis., 32 figs. (Publ. 4314.) 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publ. 4315- 
4333) : 

Science, technology, and society, by L. R. Hafstad. 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1807-1957, by Elliott B. Roberts. 

Cosmic rays from the sun, by Thomas Gold. 

Meteors, by Fred L. Whipple. 

The development of the planetarium in the United States, by Joseph Miles 

Chamberlain. 
The development of radio astronomy, by Gerald S. Hawkins. 
Jet streams, by R. Lee. 
Pollen and spores and their use in geology, by Estella B. Leopold and Richard 

A. Scott. 
The influence of man on soil fertility, by G. V. Jacks. 
The land and people of the Guajira Peninsula, by Raymond E. Crist. 
The nature of viruses, cancer, genes, and life, by Wendell M. Stanley. 
Mystery of the red tide, by F. G. Walton Smith. 
The return of the vanishing musk oxen, by Hartley H. T. Jackson. 
Bamboo in the economy of Oriental peoples, by F. A. McClure. 
Mechanizing the cotton harvest, by James H. Street. 

Aniline dyes — their impact on biology and medicine, by Morris C. Leikind. 
Causes and consequences of salt consumption, by Hans Kaunitz. 
Roman garland sarcophagi from the quarries of Proconnesus (Marmara), by 

J. B. Ward Perkins. 
Stone age skull surgery, by T. D. Stewart. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 227 

REPORT FOR 1958 

The Eeport of the Secretary, which will form part of the Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was issued January 
16, 1959: 

Report of the Secretary and financial report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1958. x+232 pp., 14 pis., 1 
chart. (Publ. 4345.) 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

The gown of Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower, by Margaret Brown Klapthor, Sup- 
plement to "The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House," Publ. 
4060. 4 pp., 2 pis. [Sept. 26] 1958. (50 cents.) 

Anthropology as a career, by William C. Sturtevant. 18 pp. (Publ. 4343.) 
July 25, 1958. (20 cents.) 

List of Smithsonian publications available for distribution June 30, 1958, com- 
piled by Eileen M. McCarthy. 54 pp. (Publ. 4344.) [Oct. 14] 1958. 

First book of grasses, by Agnes Chase. Ed. 3, with revisions and additions of 
color plate and foreword by Leonard Carmichael. xix-|-127 pp., 1 pi., 94 figs. 
( Spec. Publ. 4351. ) [ Feb. 12] 1959. ( $3. ) 

REPRINTS 

Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, Sixth Revised Edition, prepared by Robert 
J. List. First reprint. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 114, Publ. 
4014. xi+527 pp. [July 24] 1958. ($4.) 

Brief Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. 1958 rev. ed. Spec. Publ. 82 pp., 
illus. [Nov. 10] 1958. (25 cents.) 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum continued during the 
year under the immediate direction of John S. Lea, assistant chief 
of the division. The following publications were issued : 

REPORT 

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 
1958. Pp. iv-f 150, illus. Jan. 16, 1959. 

BULLETINS 

193. Supplement 1. Publications of the United States National Museum, Janu- 
ary 1947- June 1958. Pp. lii-i-16. Oct. 8, 1958. 

212. Checklist of the millipeds of North America, by Ralph V. Chamberlin and 
Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. iii-f236. Sept. 26, 1958. 

214. Review of the parrotflshes, family Scaridae, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 
v-l-143, 31 figs., 27 pis. Sept. 16, 1958. 

216. Ichneumon-flies of America north of Mexico : 1. Subfamily Metopiinae, by 
Henry and Marjorie Townes. Pp. ix+318, 196 figs. Mar. 6, 1959. 

PROCEEDINGS 

Volume 106 

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-vii, 589-615. June 8, 1959. 

Volume 107 

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-v, 651-671. May 29, 1959. 



228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Volume 108 

No. 3395. A review of some galerucine beetles with excised middle tibiae in 

the male, by Doris H. Blake. Pp. 5^101, 6 figs. July 16, 1958. 
No. 3398. A review of the copepod genus Ridgewayia (Calanoida) with descrip- 
tions of new species from the Dry Tortugas, Florida, by Mildred Stratton 

Wilson. Pp. 137-179, 37 figs. Aug. 11, 1958. 
No. 3399. Revision of the millii)ed genus Pachydesmus (Polydesmida : Xysto- 

desmidae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 181-218, 12 figs. Aug. 20, 1958. 
No. 3400. A revision of the eels of the genus Conger with descriptions of four 

new species, by Robert H. Kanazawa. Pp. 219-267, 7 figs., 4 pis. Oct. 6, 1958. 
No. 3401. Three North American Cretaceous fishes, by David H. Dunkle. Pp. 

269-277, 3 pis. Oct. 21, 1958. 
No. 3402. Taxonomy and nomenclature of three species of Lonchura (Aves: 

EstrUdinae), by Kenneth C. Parkes. Pp. 279-293, 1 fig. Oct. 21, 1958. 
No. 3403. Rhizocephala of the family Peltogastridae parasitic on West Indian 

species of Galatheidae, by Edward G. Reinhard. Pp. 295-307, fig. 4, 1 pi. 

Nov. 20, 1958. 
No. 3404. Advances in our knowledge of the honey-guides, by Herbert Fried- 

mann. Pp. 309-320. Oct. 21, 1958. 
No. 3405. Three new serranid fishes, genus Pikea, from the western Atlantic, 

by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 321-329, 2 figs. Nov. 17, 1958. 
No. 3406. The status of the lizard Cnemidophorus perplexus Baird and Girard 

(Teiidae), by T. Paul Maslin, Richard G. Beidleman, and Charles H. Lowe, Jr. 

Pp. 331-345. Dec. 31, 1958. 
No. 3407. Synopsis of the species of agromyzid leaf miners described from North 

America (Diptera), by Kenneth E. Frick. Pp. 347-465, 170 figs. Mar. 5, 1959. 
No. 3409. Scarab beetles of the genus Botliynus in the United States ( Coleoptera : 

Scarabaeidae), by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 515-541, 6 figs. Mar. 10, 1959. 
No. 3410. A further study of Micronesian polyclad flatworms, by Libby H. 

Hyman. Pp. 543-597, 17 figs. Mar. 6, 1959. 

Volume 109 

No. 3411. A revision of the milliped genus Brachoria (Polydesmida: Xystodes- 
midae), by William T. Keeton. Pp. 1-58, 11 figs. Apr. 14, 1959. 

No. 3413. Notes on Aradidae in the U.S. National Museum (Hemiptera), I. Sub- 
family Calisiinae, by Nicholas A. Kormilev. Pp. 209-222, 18 figs. Apr. 20, 
1959. 

No. 3414. Flies of the genus Odinia in the Western Hemisphere (Diptera: 
Odiniidae) , by Curtis W. Sabrosky. Pp. 223-236, 1 pi. May 29, 1959. 

SPECUL PUBLICATIONS 

A handbook for employees, iii-f-40 pp., 27 figs. Dec. 24, 1958. 

Guard manual and regulations for the guard force. [8]-f75 pp. June 1958. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERIdAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate 
direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following publications were 
issued : 

ANNUAL REPORT 

Seventy-fifth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1957-1958. 
11 -1-36 pp., 5 pis. 1959. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 229 

BULLETINS 

Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods : Modern intertribal organizations on 

the Northwest coast, by Philip Drucker, iv+194 pp. October 1958. 
Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 9-14. ix+392 pp., 73 pis., 13 
figs., 9 maps. December 1958. 

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservoir area. 

North Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper. 
No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas, by 

Robert B. Cumming, Jr. 
No. 11. The Spain site (39LM301), a winter village in Fort Randall Reser- 
voir, South Dakota, by Carlyle S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr. 
No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears. 
No. 13. Historic sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area, 

Florida-Georgia, by Mark F. Boyd. 
No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Reser- 
voir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen. 
Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker, Rob- 
ert F. Heizer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas E. Gullberg, 
Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold. viii-f312 pp., 63 pis., 82 figs. 
March 1959. 
Bulletin 171. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A study in ecology and society, by 
Robert F. Spencer, vi-j-490 pp., 9 pis., 2 figs., 4 maps. May 1959. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

The editorial work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 
continued under the immediate direction of Ernest E. Biebighauser. 
The year's publications are as follows : 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS 
Volume S 

No. 11. The statistics of meteors in the earth's atmosphere, by Gerald S. 

Hawkins and Richard B. Southworth. Pp. 349-364, 5 figs. Aug. 5, 1958. 
No. 12. Granulation and oscillations of the solar atmosphere, by Charles 

Whitney. Pp. 365-376, 2 figs. July 29, 1958. 
No. 13. Optical properties of Saturn's rings : I. Transmission, by Allan F. Cook, 

II, and Fred A. Franklin. Pp. 377-383, 3 figs. Nov. 14, 1958. 

Volume S 

No. 1. The regression of the node of the quadrantids, by Gerald S. Hawkins and 

Richard B. Southworth. Pp. 1-5, 2 figs. Oct. 1, 1958. 
No. 2. Catalogs of meteor radiants, by Gerald S. Hawkins. Pp. 7-8, 3 figs. 

Sept. 26, 1958. 
No. 3. Papers on the solar constant : "The Constancy of the Solar Constant," by 

Theodore E. Sterne and Nannielou Dieter, 1 fig. ; "On Sterne and Dieter's 

paper, 'The Constancy of the Solar Constant,' " by C. G. Abbot, 9 figs. ; and 

"The solar constant," by L. B. Aldrich and W. H. Hoover. Pp. 9-24. Dec. 24, 

1958. 
No. 4. Some sunspot and flare statistics, by Barbara Bell and Harold Glazer. 

Pp. 25-38, 3 figs. May 18, 1959. 
No. 5. The Doppler widths of solar absorption lines, by Barbara Bell and Alan 

Meltzer. Pp. 39-46. May 13, 1959. 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Profiles of the time of James Monroe, 175&-1958. 13 pp., 1 pi. (PubL 4348.) 

[Oct 24] 1958. 
Henry Ward Ranger centennial exhibition, 1858-1958. 30 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 

4349.) [Dec. 1] 1958. 
Turn-of-the-century paintings from the William T. Evans collection. 8 pp. 

[Apr. 23] 1959. 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions, 1959-1960 catalog. 40 pp. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

The lohans and a bridge to heaven, by W§n Fong. Occas. Pap., vol. 3, No. 1, 64 pp., 

18 pis., 1 fig. (PubL 4305.) [Aug. 21] 1958. ($1.00.) 
The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pp., 8 pis., 3 figs. 

Rev. ed. 1958. 

REPORTS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided 
in the act of incorporation of the association. No reports were issued 
during the year. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the 60th Annual Report of the National Society, 
Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to Congress, 
in accordance with law, on January 7, 1959. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

During the year the Institution acquired, through a generous gift 
of the author, the remaining stock of the book "Composition of Scien- 
tific Words," by Dr. Roland W. Brown, former geologist of the U.S. 
Geological Survey. The volume, 882 pages in size, is subtitled "A 
Manual of Methods and a Lexicon of Materials for the Practice of 
Logoteclmics." Published by the author in 1956, it is now being dis- 
tributed by the Smithsonian. 

The chief of the division continued to represent the Smithsonian 
Institution on the board of directors of the Greater Washington Edu- 
cational Television Association, Inc., of which the Institution is a 
member. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Paul H. Oehser, 
Chiefs Editorial and Publications Division. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Other Activities 

LECTURES 

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, 
of New York City, a part of the income from which was to be used 
to endow an annual lecture on some aspect of the sun. The 25th 
Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural His- 
tory Building on the evening of October 23, 1958, by Dr. Leo Goldberg, 
director of the Observatory of the University of Michigan. This 
illustrated lecture, on the subject "Astronomy from Artificial Satel- 
lites," will be published in full in the general appendix of the Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 
1959. 

Dr. Homer A. Thompson, professor of classical archeology. Insti- 
tute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J., delivered a lecture on 
"Athenian Twilight" in the auditorium of the Natural History Build- 
ing on the evening of December 2, 1958. This was sponsored jointly 
by the Smithsonian Institution and the Archaeological Institute of 
America. 

Under the joint sponsorship of the Smithsonian Institution, the 
Anthropological Society of Washington, and the Netherland-America 
Foundation, Dr. J. Victor de Bruyn, adviser to the Netherlands Gov- 
ernment on New Guinea affairs, lectured on "New Guinea Papuans 
Today and Tomorrow," on March 4, 1959, in the Natural History 
Building auditorium. 

Grover Loening, aeronautical engineer and manufacturer and mem- 
ber of the advisory board of the National Air Museum, presented a 
lecture on "Lessons from the History of Flight" in the auditorium 
of the Natural History Building on May 18, 1959. This lecture is 
to be published in the general appendix of the Annual Report of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1959. 

H. Alan Lloyd, F.S.A., F.B.H.I., M.B.E., gave a lecture on "Pre- 
Renaissance Clocks and Their Influence" on May 20, 1959, in the 
auditorium of the Freer Gallery of Art, under the joint sponsorship 
of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Association of Watch 
and Clock Collectors. 

Several lectures Avere also sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art 
and the National Gallery of Art. These are listed in the reports of 
these bureaus. 

231 

536608—60 16 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

SMITHSONIAN MUSEUM SERVICE 

The Smithsonian Museum Service was established on October 21, 
1958. G. Carroll Lindsay was appointed acting curator of the Service 
on the same date. He had served as assistant curator of enthnology 
from 1956 to 1957 and as associate curator of cultural history since 1957. 

The Museum Service, operating under the Office of the Secretary, 
acts to coordinate the extension of the museum activities of the Insti- 
tution with particular attention to the historic development of these 
activities and their relationship to the development of the entire Insti- 
tution from its founding to the present time. The activity of the Mu- 
seum Service includes the administration of Smithsonian cooperation 
with the volunteer docents of the Junior League of Washington, D.C. 
A more complete report of this activity for the 1958-59 season is 
carried in the report of the U.S. National Museum. 

The Musemn Service also provided assistance to professional and 
subprofessional individuals and groups visiting the museums of the 
Institution. Arrangements were made through the Museum Service 
for Smithsonian participation in the Joint Workshop on Use of Com- 
munity Resources sponsored by the University of Maryland and 
George Washington University. Through the facilities of this work- 
shop a 5-day program outlining the history of the Institution and the 
work of the various Smithsonian museum and research bureaus was 
presented to 41 graduate students from the participating universities. 
Assistance was also rendered to other college and university groups 
visiting the Institution, and to individuals from the United States 
and abroad, visiting or planning to visit the Smithsonian in a profes- 
sional capacity. 

The Museum Service carried out the arrangements for various 
Smithsonian public functions and events, including lectures and the 
opening of the new halls and exhibits. Mailing lists for invitations 
to these functions and events of the Institution were enlarged and 
reorganized, and the Smithsonian Calendar of Events^ a monthly list- 
ing of exhibit openings, lectures, and other special events of the 
Institution, was prepared and distributed. 

BIO-SCIENCES INFORMATION EXCHANGE 

The Bio-Sciences Information Exchange, an agency operated under 
the Smithsonian Institution but financed by other Government agen- 
cies, is a clearinghouse for research in the life sciences. 

Abstracts of current research are registered by investigators engaged 
in biological, medical, and psychological research and in limited as- 
pects of research in the social sciences. Tlirough an extensive system 
of subject indexing, these abstracts are provided upon request and 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 233 

without charge to researchers in research institutions. Through this 
simple mechanism, the Exchange maintains a commmiication system 
which precedes publication and prevents unknowing duplication. For 
granting agencies and properly constituted committees it prepares 
extensive surveys of research in broad areas. 

Owing to the worldwide interest in scientific information and to the 
increased funds for research in the bio-sciences, the Exchange has 
been authorized to install an electronic computer. During the year 
arrangements for the purchase of the machine and initial plans for 
its operation have been completed. 

The Department of Defense has joined the other Federal agencies 
supporting the Exchange and has appointed Dr. Orr E. Reynolds, di- 
rector, Office of Science, Office of the Director of Research and 
Engineering, as its representative on the governing board. 

AVIATION EDUCATION INSTITUTE 

The Institution cooperated with American University in conducting 
the First Aviation Education Institute for Science Teachers at the 
National Air Museum during the period July 1 to August 8, 1958. The 
project was made possible by a grant from the Link Foundation. Five 
teachers from the Washington, D.C., area completed the 6-week course 
and received university credits. The Aviation Education Institute is 
conducted at the Smithsonian's National Air Museum because of the 
unique facilities there, which include the National Aeronautical Col- 
lections, a wealth of historical information in the Museum's library 
and reference files, and the research guidance offered by Director 
Philip S. Hopkins and his curatorial staff. 



Report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1959 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re- 
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together 
with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govern- 
ment bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

PARENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, 
freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay- 
ment into the fmid of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld 
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the 
amount of $550,000. 

The gift of James Smithson was "lent to the United States Treas- 
ury, at 6 per centum per annum interest" (20 USC. 54) and by the Act 
of March 12, 1894 (20 USC. 55) the Secretary of the Treasury was 
"authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as the 
original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents may, 
from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the original 
bequest the sum of $1,000,000." 

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution was 
authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was 
reached on January 11, 1917, by the deposit of $2,000. 

Under the above authority the amounts shown below are deposited 
in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest : 

Unrestricted funds Income 

James Smithson $727, 640 $43, 658. 40 

Avery 14, 000 840. 00 

Habel 500 30.00 

Hamilton 2, 500 150. 00 

Hodgkins (general) 116,000 6,960.00 

Poore 26, 670 1, 600. 20 

Rhees 590 35. 40 

Sanford 1, 100 66. 00 

Total 889,000 53,340.00 

234 



REPORT OP THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



235 



Restricted funds Income 

Hodgkins (specific) $100,000 $6,000.00 

Reid 11,000 660.00 

Total 111,000 6,660.00 

Grand total 1, 000, 000 60, 000. 00 

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States there has been accumulated from income and bequests the sum 
of $3,658,636.78 whicli has been invested and is carried on the books of 
the Institution as the Consolidated Fund, a policy approved by the 
Regents at their meeting on December 14, 1916. 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution) 



Fund 



Investment 
1959 



Income 

1959 



Abbott, W. L., special 

•Avery, Robert S., and Lydia 

Gilts, royalties, gain on sale of secm-ities 

Hachenberg, George P., and Caroline--- 
•HaraUton, James -.. 

Hart, Gustavus E 

Henry, Caroline -.- 

Henry, Joseph, and Harriet A 

•Hodgkins, Thomas O. (general) 

Morrow, Dwight W... 

Olmsted, Helen A _.- 

•Poore, Lucy T., and George W 

Porter, Henry Kirke 

•Rhees, William Jones 

•Sanford, George H 

•Smlthson, James 

Witherspoon, Thomas A 

Total 



$20, 

54, 

378, 

5, 



1, 

67, 

41, 

106, 

1, 

223, 

392, 

1, 

1, 

177, 



443. 51 
200. 83 
877. 09 
518. 63 
553. 91 
608. 36 
659. 55 
265. 84 
567. 14 
110. 3-1 
099. 40 
330. 00 
988. 77 
649. 21 
221. 51 
675. 21 
082. 45 



$1,474,911.75 



$1, 036. 00 

2, 746. 89 

19, 201. 73 

279. 71 

23.07 

17.16 

84.12 

3, 409. 04 

2, 106. 63 

5, 377. 69 

55.73 

11, 207. 69 

19, 916. 85 

32.91 

61.92 

84.90 

8, 974. 62 



$74, 621. 72 



•In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury. 



CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income restricted to specific use) 



Fund 


Investment 
1959 


Income 
1959 


Abbott, WUliam L., for Investigations in biology 


$143, 272. 84 

64, 878. 86 

68, 748. 24 
33, 038. 26 

39, 356. 91 
1,371.87 


$7 254. 54 


Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the sun and aimual lecture 
on same 


2,781.31 


Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of 


3, 484. 16 


Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird. 


1, 674. 39 


Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and pastels and for encourage- 


1, 994. 65 


Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for Zoological Park 


69.51 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

CONSOLIDATED FUND— ContLaned 



Fund 



Investment 
1959 



Income 
1959 



Canfleld Collection, for Increase and care of the Canfleld collection of minerals^ 

Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey collection and promotion of 
researches relating to Coleoptera 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for Increase and promotion of Isaac Lea collection 
of gems and moUusks 

Dykes, Charles, for support in financial research 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation and exhibition of the photo- 
graphic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr 

Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline Eunice, for some scientific work of the 
Institution, preferably in chemistry or medicine 

Higbee, Harry, Memorial Fund, for general use of the Institution after the 
period of ten years from date of gift (1957) 

Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil Hlllyer collection of lighting 
objects. - 

Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock Agrosto logical Library 

HrdliCka, AleS and Marie, to further researches in physical anthropology and 
publication in connection therewith 

Hughes, Bruce, to found Hughes alcove 

Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences 

Long, Annette and Edith C, for upkeep and preservation of Long collection 
of embroideries, laces, and textUes - 

Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of MaxweU collection 

Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first -class works of art for use and 
benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts - 

Nelson, Edward W., for support of biological studies. - 

Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the collection of doUs placed in the 
U.S. National Museum through the Interest of Mr. and Mrs. Noyes 

PeU, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of Alfred Duane PeU collection... 

Petrocelll, Joseph, for the care of the Petrocelli collection of photographic 
prints and for the enlargement and development of the section of photog- 
raphy of the U.S. National Museum 

Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. National Museum containing 
Crustacea. 

*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher Tunis.. 

Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and Increase of RoebUng collec- 
tion of minerals - - - - 

Roebling Solar Research 

Rollins, Miriam and WUllam, for investigations in physics and chemistry. ._ 

Smithsonian employees' retirement 

Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the Springer collection and library. . 

Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for development of geological and 
paleonto logical studies and publishing results of same - 

Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publications in botany 

Younger, Helen Walcott, held in trust - 

Zerbee, Frances BrincklS, for endowment of aquaria 

Total 



$52, 482. 58 

17, 199. 81 

38, 641. 81 
59, 084. 00 

14, 915. 03 

12, 198. 67 

763. 94 

9, 018. 34 
2. 165. 26 

59, 259. 98 

26, 265. 73 
119,591.06 

745. 07 
26, 914. 61 

27, 717. 08 
30, 515. 84 

1, 318. 33 
10, 171. 36 

10, 172. 28 



$2, 659. 86 

871. 72 

1, 958. 36 
2, 994. 10 

755. 93 

618. 21 

36.81 

457. 04 
109. 75 

2, 858. 46 
1, 331. 15 
6, 060. 94 

37.74 
1, 364. 06 

1, 404. 72 
1, 546. 55 

66.81 
515. 48 

346. 62 



14, 594. 68 


739. 66 


24, 468. 96 


1, 237. 04 


165, 608. 24 


8, 393. 11 


31, 633. 91 


1, 982. 79 


180, 655. 59 


8, 929. 44 


33, 368. 40 


1, 722. 74 


24, 607. 44 


1, 247. 14 


13, 719. 89 


695. 31 


657, 407. 55 


33, 444. 26 


79, 429. 98 


4, 025. 53 


97, 121. 02 


4, G92. 96 


1,301.61 


65.98 


$2, 183, 725. 03 


$110, 428. 83 



*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave 
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Wliistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 237 

finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks and 
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment 
fund for the operation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts to 
$8,902,456.42. 

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $2, 294, 725. 03 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en- 
dowment 2, 363, 911. 75 



Total invested endowment other than Freer 4, 658, 636. 78 

Freer invested endowment for specific pui-poses 8, 902, 456. 42 



Total invested endowment for all purposes 13, 561, 093. 20 



CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au- 
thorized in the U.S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value 
at date acquired) : 

Bonds $1, 498, 643. 09 

Stocks 2, 142, 849. 59 

Real estate and mortgages 5, 756. 00 

Uninvested capital 11, 388. 10 

3, 658, 636. 78 



Total investments other than Freer endowment 4, 658, 636. 78 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at 
date acquired) : 

Bonds $5, 258. 223. 18 

•Stocks 3, 642, 181. 72 

Uninvested capital 2, 051. 52 

8, 902, 456. 42 



Total investments 13, 561, 093. 20 

ASSETS 
Cash: 

United States Treasury cur- 
rent account $1,317,923.50 

In banks and on hand 313, 938. 41 



1, 631, 861. 91 
Less uninvested endowment 

funds 13, 439. 62 

$1, 618, 422. 29 

Travel and other advances 4, 426. 77 

Cash invested (U.S. Treasury notes) 1,328,878.18 

$2,951,727.24 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

ASSETS— Continued 

Investments — at book value : 
Endowment funds : 
Freer Gallery of Art : 

Stocks and bonds $8,900,404.90 

Uninvested cash 2, 051. 52 

$8, 902, 456. 42 



Investments at book value other 
than Freer : 

Stocks and bonds (Con- 
solidated Fund) 3, 543, 261. 44 

Uninvested cash 11, 388. 10 

Special deposit in U.S. 
Treasury at 6 percent 
interest 1, 000, 000. 00 

Other stocks and bonds— 98, 231. 24 

Real estate and mort- 
gages 5, 756. 00 



4, 658, 636. 78 
$13, 501, 093. 20 



16, 512, 820. 44 



UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS 

Unexpended funds : 

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment $568, 658. 87 

Income from other endowments : 

Restricted $442, 629. 88 

General 467, 271. 34 909, 901. 22 



Gifts and contributions 1, 473, 167. 15 



2, 951, 727. 24 
Endowment funds : 

Freer Gallery of Art $8, 902, 456. 42 

Other : 

Restricted 2, 294, 725. 03 

General 2, 363, 911. 75 

13, 561, 093. 20 



Total 16, 512, 820. 44 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



239 



CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS. AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1959 » 





Restricted funds 


Unre- 
stricted 
funds 


Gifts and 
grants 


Total 




General 


Freer 




RECEIPTS: 
Income from investments: 
Freer fund 




$388, 886. 44 






$388, 886. 44 
171 495 22 


Consolidated fund 


$96,817.32 

6, 660. 00 

326. 78 

4, 950. 96 


$74, 677. 90 
63, 340. 00 




Loan to U.S. Treasury 






60, 000. 00 
326 78 


Real estate and mortgages-. 






Special funds — stocks and bonds.. 




34, 434. 37 




39 385 33 










Total income from investments... 


108, 755. 06 
2, 002. 13 


388, 886. 44 
10, 887. 09 


162, 452. 27 
75, 376. 24 
46, 8S3. 38 

222. 05 

14, 413. 55 

6, 318. 00 

594. 18 




600, 003. 77 

RQ 178 Ifi 


Publications... 


$912. 70 


Research grant income 


46, 883. 38 

15, 342. 05 

119, 869. 59 

6, 318. 00 

594 18 


Special gifts and fees: 
Gifts and contributions 


10, 120. 00 
174. 71 


5, 000. 00 
101. 04 






105, 180. 29 


Refund of advances 


Employees' withholdings (net).. 


















Total special gifts and fees 

Reinvestment (required by provi- 
sion of donor) 


10, 294. 71 
7, 955. 07 


5, 101. 04 


21, 547. 78 
2, 185. 47 


105, 180. 29 


142, 123. 82 

10, 140. 54 
2, 668, 368. 36 


Gifts and grants ' 




2, 668, 368. 36 










Total income 


129, 006. 97 


404, 874. 57 
2, 217, 664. 19 


308, 445. 14 


2, 774, 461. 35 


3, 616, 788. 03 

2, 217, 664. 19 

497, 528. 20 

25, 822. 20 


Sales of securities: 
Endowment funds: 
Freer fund 


Consolidated fund 


321, 900. 75 
25, 822. 26 


175, 627. 45 




Other stocks and bonds 














Total endowment funds sales 


347, 723. 01 


2, 217, 604. 19 


175, 627. 45 
190, 000. 00 




2, 741, 014 65 


Investment of current funds in U.S. 
Government bonds 




ISO, 000. 00 










Total receipts 


476, 729. 98 


2, 622, 538. 76 


674, 072. 59 


2, 774, 461. 35 


6,547,802.68 




DISBURSEMENTS: 
Administrative salaries. 




34, 360. 45 
133, 888. 80 


87,843.80 




122, 204. 25 
141 701 46 


Other salaries 


7,812.66 












Total salaries.. 


7, 812. 66 
28, 322. 76 


168, 249. 25 
220, 268. 00 


87, 843. 80 
1, 439. 50 

32, 426. 58 
2,992.22 
8, 387. 37 
8, 513. 11 




203, 905. 71 
250 030 26 


Purchases for collection 




Research and explorations and re- 
lated administrative expense: 
Salaries ' 


1, 042, 473. 72 


1, 074, 900. 30 
8, 774. 32 
8,803.64 

1 263 232 04 


Travel 


1, 762. 81 
416. 27 

2, 295. 15 


4, 019. 29 


Equipment and supply 




Other' 




1, 252, 423. 78 








Total research and explorations and 

related administrative expense.. 

Publications 


4, 474. 23 
7, 774. 93 


4, 019. 29 
5, 505. 47 


52, 319. 28 
74,969.17 


2,294,897.50 


2, 355, 710. 30 
88, 249. 57 



I This statement does not include Government appropriations under administrative charge of the 
Institution. 
J Includes receipts for IQY program. 
• Includes disbursements for IGY program. 



240 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1959— Continued 





Restricted fimds 


Unre- 
stricted 
funds 


Gifts and 
grants 


Total 




General 


Freer 




DISBURSEMENTS— Continued 
Buildings, equipment, and grounds: 
Buildings and installations . .- 




$10, 058. 53 

306. 54 
385. 28 


$1, 079. SO 




$11 138 33 


Court and grounds niainte- 






306. 64 


Technical laboratory . 








386. 28 












Total buildings, equipment, 




10, 750. 35 

11,862.36 

8, 629. 48 
1, 128. 10 
6, 271. 12 
2, 847. 31 


1, 079. 80 
4, 301. 05 
6, 018. 12 




11,830.15 
21, 803. 25 


Contractual services: 
Custodian and legal fees 


$5, 649. 84 




SuppUes and expenses: 
Meetings, special exhibits.- 




14, 547. 60 


Lectures 


430. 12 




1, 658. 22 


Photographs and reproductions.- 


415. 05 

1, 111. 02 

175. 17 

467. 00 

1, 831. 00 




5, 686. 17 


Library 






3, 958. 33 








175. 17 


Postage, telephone, and telegraph. 
Stamp machines .. 








467. 00 








1, 831. 00 














430. 12 


17, 776. 01 


10, 017. 36 




28, 223. 49 








Total expenses 


64, 464. 54 


438, 420. 73 
2, 231, 471. 33 


231, 969. 96 


$2, 294, 897. 50 


3, 019, 752. 73 


Purchases of secirrities: 
Endowment funds: 


2, 231, 471. 33 




342, 455. 07 
25, 608. 39 


186, 841. 79 




529, 296. 86 


Other stocks and bonds 






25, 608. 39 














368, 063. 46 


2,231,471.33 


186, 841. 79 
189,986.70 




2, 786, 376. 63 


Investment of current funds in 
U.S. Government bonds - . 




189, 986. 70 












Total disbursements 


422, 528. 00 


2, 669, 892. 06 


608, 798. 46 


2,294,897.50 


5, 996, 116. 01 






Excess receipts over disbursements.— 


54, 201. 98 


(47, 353. 30) 


65, 274, 14 


479,563.85 


551, 686. 67 


Cash balance June 30, 1958 










1, 080, 175. 24 














Cash balance June 30, 1959 


1, 631, 861. 91 















The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the 
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during 
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $7,501.11. 

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks, 
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United 
States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by 
the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the United States 
Treasury. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the 
following : 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 241 

American Council of Learned Societies, gift to defray travel expenses of Dr. 
Ralph Solecki to visit Paris to assist in the preparation of an International 
manual on salvage archeology. 

American Institute of Biological Sciences, gift to defray travel expenses of 
Dr. Ernest A. Lachner. 

Atomic Energy Commission, additional grants for the purpose of conducting a 
biochemical investigation of photomorphogenesis In green plants. 

Anonymous donor, gift to establish the "Special Astrophysical Observatory 
Fund." 

Anonymous donor, gift for the repair and maintenance of a coach. 

Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce, additional gift for the Smithsonian-Bredin 
Expeditions Fund. 

Carter Oil Company, additional grant for a research project on echinoid 
spines. 

Chase, Mrs. Agnes, additional gift for copying the index to grass names. 

Department of the Air Force, additional grants for research entitled "Study 
of Atmospheric Entry and Impact of Higli Velocity Meteorites." 

Department of the Air Force, additional grants for research directed toward 
the study of the rate of accretion of interplanetary matter by the earth. 

Department of the Army, grants for research entitled "Procurement of Satellite 
Tracking and Orbit Determination Program," 

F^nykovi, J. J., gift for the unrestricted use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Hart, Gustavus E., bequest for the diffusion of useful knowledge among men 
and especially for the prevention of disease in human beings. 

Henderson, E. P., gift to establish the "Meteorite Fund." 

Kevorkian, H., grant to the Freer Gallery of Art. 

Link, E. A., additional gift for historical research (marine archeology). 

Link Foundation, gift to be used for special publications dealing with aviation 
and the Smithsonian Institution collections. 

Likens, W. H., gift for the Smithsonian Institution's unrestricted funds. 

Fred Maytag Family Foundation, gift for historical research (marine 
archeology). 

National Geographic Society, additional grant to complete the excavations and 
related work at the archeological site in Jackson County, Alabama. 

National Geographic Society, grant for an expedition to British Guiana for 
the purpose of collecting live specimens of the hoat^in and other birds and 
mammals. 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research 
entitled "Studies of Type Specimen of Ferns." 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research en- 
titled "Monographic Studies of Tingidae and Presmidae (Hemiptera)." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Sys- 
tematic Studies of South American Microlepidoptera." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Ab- 
original History of the Peruvian Coast." 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research 
entitled "Monograph of Fresh Water Calanoid Copepods." 

National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administra- 
tion, grants for an optical tracking and scientific analysis program for the 
United States earth satellite program. 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research en- 
titled "Morphology and Paleoeeology of Permian Brachiopods." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Taxo- 
nomic Study of the Phanerogams of Colombia." 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Data 
Reduction-Earth Albedo Observations During the International Geophysical 
Year Meteorology Program." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research on the metabolic 
aspects of the digestion of wax. 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Semi- 
nole Culture." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Pre- 
historic Man in Shanidar Valley." 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research en- 
titled "Taxonomy of the Bamboos." 

OflBce of Naval Research, additional grants to perform psychological research 
studies. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant to perform aeronautical research 
studies. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grants to provide expert consultants to 
advise the Navy Research Advisory Committee. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant to assist work in progress on the 
preparation of a synoptic catalog of the mosquitoes of the world. 

Office of Naval Research, grants to conduct studies of helminth parasites of 
Egypt and other Middle Eastern areas. 

Petrocelli, Mrs. Mary O., bequest to establish the "Joseph Petrocelli Memorial 
Fund." 

Research Corporation, grant for the support of research entitled "Spectro- 
photometric Investigation of the Photomorphogenic Pigment System." 

Rocca, B. T., gift for the unrestricted use of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Snyderman, I., gift to establish the "Numismatic Fund." 

St. Petersburg Shell Club, gift to defray expenses of Dr. Harald Rehder in 
connection with travel to St. Petersburg. 

United States Department of Agriculture, grant for the preparation of a 
catalog of mosquitoes. 

University of the State of New York, gift to defray travel expenses of Dr. 
Herbert Friedmann while attending the conference on Systematic Museums 
as Resources for Basic Research. 

Wenner-Gren Foundation, grant to aid participation in celebration of Hrdli^ka 
90th Anniversary, Prague, 1959. 

For support of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange : 
Atomic Energy Commission. 
Department of the Air Force. 
Department of the Army. 
Department of the Navy. 
National Science Foundation. 
Public Health Service. 
Veterans Administration. 

Included in the above list of gifts and contributions are reimburs- 
able contracts. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the 
Institution. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year 1959 : 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 243 

Salaries and Expenses $7, 587, 800. 00 

National Zoological Park 953, 800. 00 

The appropriation made to the National Gallery of Art (which is 
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution) was $1,790,100.00. 

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agen- 
cies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion as follows : 

Working Funds, transferred from the National Park Service, In- 
terior Department, for archeological investigations in river basins 
throughout the United States $162, 000. 00 

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support 
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island 
in the Canal Zone. 

AUDIT 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds follows : 

Washington, D. O., September 28, 1959. 

The Board of Regents, 

SMrrnsoNiAN Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 

We have examined the statement of private funds of Smithsonian Institution 
as of June 30, 1959 and the related statement of private funds cash receipts 
and disbursements for the year then ended. Our examination was made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included 
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we 
considered necessary in the circumstances. 

Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other speci- 
mens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts of the 
Institution ; likewise, the accompanying statements do not include the National 
Gallery of Art and other departments, bureaus, and operations administered 
by the Institution under Federal appropriations. The accounts of the Institu- 
tion are maintained on the basis of cash receipts and disbursements, with the 
result that the accompanying statements do not reflect income earned but not 
collected or expenses incurred but not paid. 

In our opinion, subject to the matters referred to in the preceding para- 
graph, the accompanying statement of private funds presents fairly the assets, 
unexpended funds and endowments of the private funds of Smithsonian Institu- 
tion at June 30, 1959; further, the accompanying statement of private funds 
cash receipts and disbursements, which has been prepared on a basis consistent 
with that of the preceding year, presents fairly the cash transactions of the 
private funds for the year then ended. 

Peat, Mabwick, Mitchelx, & Co. 
Respectfully submitted. 

/s/ EoBERT V. Fleming 
/s/ Clarence Cannon 
/s/ Caryt^ p. Haskins 

Executive Committee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 

to the 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1959 



245 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the General x\.ppendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions ; reports of investigations made by staff 
members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to 
the numerous correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1959. 

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be 
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi- 
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Wash- 
ington 25, D.C. 
246 



The Transuranium Elements^ 



By Glenn T. Seaborg 

Chancellor, University of California 
Berkeley 



[With 1 plate] 



The study of the transuranium elements is an exqting branch of 
science, which started less than 20 years ago and has a clearly discerni- 
ble future of great expansion. These elements represent the realization 
of the alchemists' dream of transmutation. They have played an 
important role in the recent renaissance of inorganic chemistry. An 
advance as fundamental as a 10-percent increase in the number of 
chemical elements has, as one might anticipate, contributed much to 
our fund of the most basic scientific knowledge, especially in the 
fields of chemistry and physics. 

The chemistry and physics of the longer known transuranium ele- 
ments are already remarkably developed, and extremely interesting. 
Neptunium has an isotope sufficiently long lived to be safe to handle 
with moderate precautions in ordinary laboratories; plutonium and 
curium have similarly long-lived isotopes which should eventually 
make these elements available for broader investigation throughout 
the world when they become more available. One of the transuranium 
elements, plutonium, is particularly interesting. It has an isotope 
with nuclear properties such that it is destined to play an extremely 
important role in the history of mankind. Plutonium was discovered 
and methods for its manufacture were worked out under the cloak 
of secrecy during the last war. It was the first synthetic element to be 
seen by man and the first example of large-scale production of an 
element by transmutation. Plutonium has most unusual chemical 
and metallurgical properties. For example, it has four oxidation 
states which may exist in aqueous solution in equilibrium with each 
other at appreciable concentrations. The metallic foi-m has six 
allotropic modifications between room temperature and its melting 
point, some with properties unknown in any other metal. The 
alpha-radioactivity and physiological behavior of its fissionable iso- 



1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 18, No. 69, January 1959. 

536608—60 17 247 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

tope, Pu-3^, makes this one of the most dangerous known ]>oisons. The 
announcement of its discovery to the world was through the atomic 
bomb that fell on Nagasaki. Plutonium, of course, has an important 
future in nuclear power. The fissionable isotope Pu^-^^ makes its 
source isotope U'^^'^, which is not fissionable with slow neutrons, a 
potential nuclear fuel. The fertile V''' is "burned" by going through 
the intermediate fissionable Pu'^^ 

The discovery of the first transuranium element followed a false 
start 6 years earlier. When Enrico Fermi and his coworkers first 
bombarded uranium with slow neutrons in 1934 they found that a 
number of artificially radioactive species were produced, and in the 
immediately following years many more such substances were ob- 
served. Most of these were thought to be transuranium elements. 
Chemical investigation, however, led to the discovery of the fission 
process rather than to the discovery of transuranium elements. Sub- 
sequent work has shown that practically all the radioactive species 
believed to be transuranium elements were in fact fission products 
of uranium. In 1940 E. M. McMillan and P. H. Abelson discovered 
the first transuranium element. This was neptunium, with atomic 
number 93. In the following years, many more transuranium ele- 
ments— plutonium (94), americium (95), curium (96), berkelium 
(97), californium (98), einsteinium (99), fermium (100), mendel- 
evium (101), and element 102— were synthesized and identified. The 
elements up to and including einsteinium have isotopes sufficiently 
long lived to be isolated in macroscopic, that is weighable, quantities, 
but this does not seem to be true beyond einsteinium. 

The transuranium elements are, for all practical purposes, synthetic 
in origin and must be produced by transmutation, starting, m the 
first instance, with uranium. However, two of them, neptunium and 
plutonium, are present in trace concentrations in uranium ores as 
the result of the action of the neutrons which are present. Investiga- 
tion of these new elements has resulted in the contribution of much 
information to inorganic chemistry, since they have a rich and varied 
chemical behavior, form unusual compounds, and in some cases dis- 
play an extraordinary complexity in solution. The relationship of 
these elements to each other and to the other elements is now within 
our understanding. Problems inherent in the study of these elements, 
such as those of handling quantities of material so small as to be 
unweighable, of working in safety with radioactive materials, and 
of preparing and identifying elements of ever-increasing atomic 
number, are being solved. 

POSITION IN THE PERIODIC TABLE 

Ideas on the position in the periodic table (table 1) of the heaviest 
elements have varied considerably over the years. Until the last war, 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 



249 





10 
Ne 

20.183 


^ en 
ro 


oa b 00 

•^ 00 


54 
Xe 

131.30 


CO n 






o 
ojLuP 


^ ^H in 

>^ in 

ro 




«,% en 


oo 1^ 






o 

_ o 

ooQ o 

to 


to 
to 

5SWP 

ro 




^^S 

'"E-^ 


oopL, 






00 
3; 


in 
«£», en 

^ d 
to 


CO 5^ 
cokU^ 




<D 

oo 






coQP 




O 

CS4 © to 


•"CO CO 


CM^g 
CO 






CO 
loCQ 00 

O 


'-*5i to 

CO 


^ to 


CO 


en 

CO 








«^CO in 

to 




80 
Hg 

200.61 






^Oro 

to 


47 
Ag 

107.880 








CM 2; oo 

^-i in 


-2i 


(7) 

oo -^ O 
r^ Qj in 






r— en 

in 


'Si 


f~" " CO 






in 
CO 0) 00 
e^ t<iri 

in 




-;5d 


oo 




»H in 


to o 


CO 






^ ^-P 




to 


CO 

C3 




in 

COK^ 0^ 

CM >^ O 

in 


■«!^ •:» CO 


in 
CO «cn 

" CO 






o 




o 
r— Jlj eo 


^- 






to 
^ O a> 


CO 

<^ •'^ CO 
oo 


57-71 

La 
Series 


89-103 

Ac 
Series 




'*mP 


•^ 00 




ro 
oo ^ to 

00 


_ ^ 
f*^ ro 


ro 

oo nJP 

CO 


o 
.— E o 


O 
<^ JO. 

to 


"^ CO 


o 

ro 


00 
^00 


IT) » ^ 


oo U4 



m « 



71 
Lu 

174.99 




CO 


70 
Yb 

173.04 


CNI 


89 
Tm 

168.94 


H 


68 
Er 

167,27 




87 
Ho 

164,94 


s;u 


86 
Dy 

162.51 


oo <^-< 


65 
Tb 

158.93 




84 
Gd 

157.26 


CO £ 

*"0 






82 
Sm 

150.35 




-I 


93 
Np 

237,06 


80 
Nd 

144.27 


CO 


59 
Pr 

140.92 


91 
Pa 

231,05 


58 
Ce 

140.13 


90 
Th 

232.05 


57 
La 

138,92 


89 
Ac 

227.04 






250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

thorium, protoactinium, and uranium were commonly placed imme- 
diately below the elements hafnium, tantalum, and tungsten, which 
are members of a transition series in which the 5d electron shell is 
being filled. This placing was based on the assumption that the three 
heavy elements were members of a Cd electron transition series. The 
appearance of N. Bohr's paper on the quantized nuclear atom in 1913 
led to suggestions that a 5f electron transition series should start in 
the region thorium to element 95 inclusive, before the completion of 
the 6d electron shell. With the discovery of neptunium and then 
plutonium, the boundaries of the periodic table were transcended, and 
as knowledge of the first transuraniiun elements accumulated, it 
became evident that a whole new family of elements, some known and 
some still to be discovered, existed in this region of the periodic table. 
The fact that the transuranium elements are members of a transition 
series similar to the rare earth, or lanthanide, series is useful in pre- 
dicting the chemical properties of these elements before they are 
actually detected. This particular pattern of similarity, recognized 
by the author in 1944 on the basis of the chemical properties of 
neptunium and plutonium, was the key to the discovery of elements 
95 and 96 (americium and curium) and has been essential to the dis- 
covery of the transcurium elements. Since all the elements beyond 
actinium seem to belong to the actinide group (a name chosen by 
analogy with the lanthanide group), the elements thorium, protoac- 
tinium, and uranium have been removed from the positions they 
occupied in the periodic table before 1939 and placed in this transition 
family; as we shall see, elements 104, 105, and 106 will presumably 
take over the positions previously held by thorium, protoactinium, 
and uranium. Thus we have the interesting result that the new- 
comers have affected the face of the periodic table, and a change has 
been made after many years during which it seemed to have assumed 
its final form. 

NEPTUNIUM 

The discovery of the first transuranium element, neptmiium, resulted 
from McMillan's investigation of the fission process. In measuring 
the energies of the two main fragments from the neutron-induced 
fission of uranium, he found that there was another radioactive prod- 
uct of the reaction, one which did not recoil sufficiently to escape from 
the thin layer of uranium undergoing fission. He suspected that this 
was a product formed by neutron capture in the uranium. McMillan 
and Abelson were able to show on the basis of their chemical work that 
this product was an isotope of element 93 (Np^^®), arising by beta 
decay of U"^^ formed by neutron capture in IJ-^*. 

It was not obvious what the electronic configuration and chemical 
properties of neptunium might be. Uranium was known to have 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 251 

some similarity to tmigsten, and it was thought that element 93 might 
resemble rhenium, the next element beyond tungsten. There was the 
possibility, however, that neptunium might be a member of some new 
type of transition series among the heavy elements. McMillan and 
Abelson's investigation of neptunium showed that it resembles ura- 
nium, not rhenium, in its chemical properties. This was the first 
definite evidence that the 5f electron shell is filled in the transuranium 
region. 

The early investigation of neptunium, as of all the transuranium 
elements, was made by the tracer technique. In this method, an ele- 
ment having chemical properties similar to those of the element being 
studied is used to follow the behavior of the radioactive element, 
which is present in amounts as small as 10"^° g., or even less. The 
element is followed in the various reactions by means of its radio- 
activity rather than by chemical analysis. In spite of the smallness 
of the quantities present, much can be deduced about the chemical 
properties of an element — for example, the solubility of its com- 
pounds, its oxidation-reduction potentials, and its formation of 
complexions — by the use of such methods. 

PLUTONIUM 

Plutonium was next to be discovered. By bombarding uranium 
with deuterons, E. M. McMillan, J. W. Kennedy, A. C. Wahl, and the 
author, in late 1940, succeeded in preparing a new isotope of nep- 
tunium, Np-^^, which decayed to Pu^^^. The half-life of tliis isotope 
was found to be sufficiently long to permit detection and to make pos- 
sible our obtaining considerable chemical information about it by 
tracer studies. Armed with this information about the new elements, 
J. W. Kennedy, E. Segre, A. G. Wahl, and the author in 1941 identi- 
fied the most important plutonium isotope, Pu^^% as the decay product 
of Np^^^ and we were able to prove that Pu^^^ undergoes fission with 
slow neutrons. 

The realization that plutonium, as Pu^^^, could serve as a nuclear 
weapon and that it might be created in quantity in a nuclear chain 
reactor made it imperative to carry out chemical investigations of 
plutonium with microgram quantities. In August 1942, B. B. 
Cunningham and L. B. Werner succeeded in isolating about a micro- 
gram of Pu"^ which had been prepared by cyclotron irradiations. 
Thus plutonium was the first manmade element to be obtained in visi- 
ble quantity, 

A background of manipulative techniques for this ultramicrochem- 
ical work was provided by the pioneer investigations of P. L. Kirk 
and A. A. Benedetti-Pichler. If extremely small volumes are used, 
even microgram quantities of material can give relatively high con- 



252 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



centrations in solution, and with the development of balances of the 
required sensitivity, micrograms were also sufficient for gravimetric 
analysis. Liquid volumes in the range 10"^ to 10~^ ml. were meas- 
ured with an error of less than 1 percent by means of finely calibrated 
capillary tubing, the movement of liquid being controlled by air pres- 
sure. Smaller pipettes were constructed to fill by capillary action. 
Chemical glassware, such as test tubes and beakers, was constructed 
from capillary tubing having an internal diameter of 0.1-1 mm. and 
was handled with micromanipulators. The w^eights of solid reagents 
and precipitates handled in ultramicrochemical work are usually in 
the range of O.l-lOO/^g. There are some changes in method in- 
volved in the change of scale — thus, solids are usually separated from 
liquids by centrif uging rather than by filtration. The actual chemical 
work is usually done on the mechanical stage of a microscope, where 
the essential apparatus is within view (fig. 2). Among the early 
accomplishments in ultramicrocliemistry was the isolation of pure 
neptunium (pi. 1, fig. 1) and pure plutonium compounds (pi. 1, fig. 2) 
as well as the preparation of plutonium metal. Figures 1 and 3 show 
schematic drawings of the experimental arrangements used in the 
preparation of pure plutonium metal and pure plutonium trichloride. 

Plutonium is the only synthetic element that has been produced and 
isolated in kilogram quantities. The large plant at Hanford, Wash., 
was constructed on the basis of investigations performed with about 
2 mg. of plutonium ; the scaleup between ultramicrochemical experi- 
ments to the final Hanford plant corresponds to a factor of about 
10^, surely a scaleup of unique proportions. 

Frequently chemical investigation of plutonium and of other trans- 
uranium elements is carried out on a scale of a milligram or less by 
choice, rather from any limitation on supply — Pu^^g jg exceedingly 
toxic because of its high alpha-radioactivity, amounting to about 



VACUUM UNE 



BARIUM METAL 
LOOSE FITTING 
THORIA PLATE 




PLUTONIUM TETRAFLUORIDE 1 



THORIA CAP 



-TUNGSTEN HEATING COIL 
THORIA OUTER CRUCIBLE 
THORIA INNER CRUCIBLE 



-GROUND JOINT 



'ELECTRODES 



Figure 1. — Apparatus used in the first preparation of plutonium metal (November 1943). 
35 fig of plutonium tetrafluoride was treated with volatilized barium metal in a thoria 
crucible at 1400° C. The metallic plutonium was produced as silvery globules weighing 
about 3 jug each. 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 



253 




MICROCONE 
\ 



BINOCULAR 
STEREOSCOPIC 
MICROSCOPE 
GIVING Co. 30X 
MAGNIFICATION 



t/2ml SYRINGE 
CONTROL 





MICROPIPET DOWN 
TO 0.1 MICROLITER 
PER cm OF LENGTH 



MICROSCOPIC FIELD 



Figure 2. — Experimental arrangement for the study of precipitation reactions on the micro- 
gram scale. 

140 million alplia-disintegrations per minute per milligram; special 
equipment and precautions, as well as the use of material in very 
small amounts, are necessary when working with it. 

AMERICIUM AND CURIUM 

After plutonium had been produced in quantity, the discoveries of 
americium (1944-45) and curium (1944) were made. The speed of 
discoveiy of these elements was due largely to the accurate prediction 
of their chemical properties on the basis of their assumed position in 
the periodic table (p. 249) . Curium, discovered by R. A. James, L. O. 
Morgan, A. Ghiorso, and the author, was synthesized as Cm^*^ by the 
bombardment of plutonium with helium ions. The production of 
americium by James, Ghiorso, and the author was accomplished by 
preparing Pu^*^ which decays by beta emission to Am^*^. 

IDENTIFICATION BY ION EXCHANGE 

The ion-exchange technique, coupled with element-by-element com- 
parison of the behavior of corresponding actinide and lanthanide 
elements, has been essential in the discovery of the transuranium 
elements. Since the actinide elements above plutonium are predom- 
inantly trivalent in solution and have a close chemical resemblance, 
most conventional chemical separations are not suitable. Again, the 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



TO CI, SUPPLY* 




^ TO VACUUM 

-CHLORINE RESERVaR 

-COOLING BATH 



CLOTH WICK WET WITH H^ 
THERMOCOUPLE 



-COPPER BLOCK 



Figure 3. — Apparatus used in the first preparation of PuCU (February 1944). The com- 
pound was prepared by treating a 50-/ug piece of plutonium metal with chlorine gas. 
After placing the plutonium in the capillary tube, the system was evacuated. Chlo- 
rine gas was added, and a small amount condensed in a reservoir as shown. The sys- 
tem was closed and remained filled with chlorine at a pressure of about 60 mm. Hg. 
The copper block was heated to 45° C, and the reaction product was formed in the top 
of the capillary tube. The section of the capillary containing the product was sealed 
oflf and tlic compound formed was identified by X-ray diffraction. 

first isotopes of (lie new actinide elements were obtained in very small 
amounts, and are very short lived. Specific and rapid methods are 
therefore necessary in identifying these elements, and ion exchange 
provides both. Much of the chemical knowledge we have of the 
actinide elements heavier than curium is concerned with their ion- 
exchange and elution properties. 

The trivalent actinide and lanthanide ions in aqueous solution 
undergo a cation exchange when a solid organic base-exchange poly- 
mer is stirred in. The solid material can then be placed at the top 
of a glass column filled with more of the organic polymer that is free 
of the actinidcs or lanthanidcs. Elution can tlien be accomplished by 
pouring througli the column a solution containing ions that form 
complex ions with the actinide or lanthanide ions. In certain well- 
behaved systems the lanthanide elements elute from the column in the 
inverse order of their atomic nimibei-s, that is, lutetium can be collected 
as the first element in the drops coming through the column, ytterbium 
as the second element, and so on to cerium. The whole process bears 
a close resemblance to chromatography. In the case of the actinides, 
the undiscovered element 103 will leave the column first, followed by 
element 102, and so on down the scale of atomic numbers. 

BERKELIUM AND CALIFORNIUM 

At the end of 1949 and beginning of 1950, experiments led to the 
production of elements 97 and 98, berkelium and californium. The 
fii-st six transuranium elements were discovered almost in pairs, with 
time lapses corresponding to necessary improvements in technique and 
the accumulation of starting material. Milligram amounts of ameri- 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 - Scaborg 








Plate 1 




„ 


^ 


u 


ON 


O 

a. 


O 
60 


o 


o" 


-13 


c 


S 




j>^ 


IS 


3 






60 




u 






C 


iU 


3 


'5 


o 


^ 


u. 


^ 


ij 




O 




3 






s 




u 


ni 


"d. 


*-> 




3 




a, 


cj 


C 


u 


c/3 










L^ 


rt 




X) 


OS 


a 


o 


lU 


D. 


c^ 




"m) 


a! 


'o 


60 


'5 


oT 


^3 


'53 


<^ 


-g 


C 


%. 


_Q 


o 




(L> 






_c 


-G 


O 

-a 




■M 

1-4 

c« 


H 


<~^ 


C/3 


D 




3 
O 


CIS 

c 
1) 


c 
o 

u 
oi 


ti o 





1) 




c 

3 


s" 


4J 


-a 


'S 
O 


:3 

s 

_3 


Si 


<u to 
J3 a. 


_3 






4_) 


"S. 


oj 


-fi c^' 






u 


o 




■u 






■-* 


J5 


ta 


IS rt 


tin 


h 


.S 


& ^ 





w^ww^*^^ 



f' 






5 =: o 

S rt "• 
t3 

■5 "S) 



Qh 



aj 



OJ 



H 



o P 

S -H 

i! o -^ 

-^ -^ ^ 

=> t« T! 

o i! 

S 
o 






.'?' 



cx, •- 

a CI. „ 

G c« c3 

.2 „ ^ 

3 "O D 

^ 0) =5 

£ *-> 1) 

^ S3H 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 255 

cium for target material were prepared by the intense neutron irradi- 
ation of plutonium for a long time ; this process builds up the heavier 
elements by a series of neutron captures. Curium for target material 
was prepared in microgram amounts by the neutron irradiation of 
some of the americium. Both of these neutron bombardments were 
carried out in high-flux reactore. Berkelium, as the isotope Bk-*% 
was discovered by S. G. Thompson, A. Ghiorso, and the author in 
December 1949, as a result of the bombardment of americium with 
helium ions. Californium was first synthesized and identified by 
S. G. Thompson, K. Street, Jr., A. Ghiorso, and the author in 
February 1950, the isotope Cf ^" being produced by the bombardment 
of microgram amounts of curium with helium ions. The identifica- 
tion of califomimn was accomplished with a total of about 5,000 
atoms. 

EINSTEINIUM AND FERMIUM 

The first test thermonuclear explosion, which took place in the 
Pacific in November 1952, led to the discovery of elements 99 and 
100, einsteinium and fermium. These two elements were found in 
debris, collected first on filter papers attached to aeroplanes which 
flew through the explosion area and later in more substantial quanti- 
ties by gathering up surface materials from a neighboring atoll. The 
uranium in the fission- fusion device was subjected to an instantaneous 
intense neutron flux which gave rise to very heavy uranium isotopes. 
These rapidly decayed into heavy isotopes of plutonium, amer- 
icium, curium, berkelium, californium, and elements 99 and 100. 
These reaction products were investigated by groups at the Uni- 
versity of California Radiation Laboratory, Argonne National Lab- 
oratory, and Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. The two elements 
were discovered by Ghiorso and coworkers at the three laboratories. 

Einsteinium and fermium can be synthesized by a number of meth- 
ods. Chief among these is the irradiation of plutonium for several 
years with an extremely high neutron flux in such a reactor as the 
Materials Testing Reactor at Arco, Idaho. The einsteinium used to 
produce element 101 was prepared in the Materials Testing Reactor. 

MENDELEVIUM 

The synthesis of element 101 was planned and accomplished not only 
with an amount of target einsteinium (E^^^) so small as to be un- 
weighable, but also with the expectation that no more than one atom 
of element 101 per experiment would be produced. Only about 1,000 
million atoms of E^^^ were available for target material. In addition, 
the separation of the one atom of element 101 from the 10^ atoms of 
target einsteinium and its ultimate complete chemical identification 

53660S — 60 18 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

by separation in the eka-thulium position by the ion-exchange 
method would have to be accomplished. These requirements necessi- 
tated new techniques, and also some luck; fortunately, both were 
forthcoming. The new technique involved the separation of element 
101 from the einsteinium in the target by the recoil method. The 
einsteinium was plated onto a gold foil in an invisibly thin layer. 
The helium- ion beam was sent through the back of the foil so that 
the atoms of element 101, recoiling because of the momentum of the 
impinging helium ions, could be caught on a second thin gold foil. 
This second gold foil, containing recoil atoms, yet relatively free of 
the target einsteinium, was dissolved and the chemical separations 
were performed. Veiy sensitive methods were available for the detec- 
tion of isotopes decaying by alpha-particle emission or by spontaneous 
fission. These methods were so efficient that as little as one or two 
atoms of element 101 per experiment could be detected. 

The earliest experiments were confined to looking for short-lived 
alpha-emitting isotopes that might be due to element 101. However, 
no alpha activity was observed that could be attributed to element 101, 
even when the time between the end of the bombardment and the 
beginning of the alpha-particle analysis was reduced to 5 minutes. 

The experiments were continued, and in one of the subsequent 
bombardments, a single large pulse due to spontaneous fission was 
observed. Chemical experiments indicated that the spontaneous fis- 
sion counts, when they did appear, came in chemical fractions cor- 
responding approximately to element 100 or 101. In the definitive 
experiments, three successive 3-hour bombardments were made, and, 
in turn, their transmutation products were completely and quickly 
separated by the ion-exchange method. A total of five spontaneous 
fission counts was observed in the elution position corresponding to 
element 101, while a total of eight spontaneous fission counts was also 
observed in the element 100 position. No such counts were observed 
in any other position. The spontaneous fission activity in both the 
element 101 and 100 fractions decayed with a half-life of about 3 
hours. This and other evidence led to the view that the isotope has 
the mass number 256 and decays by electron capture, with a half-life 
of the order of an hour, to the isotope Fm^^® which is responsible for 
the spontaneous fission decay. 

On the basis of this evidence, the group, consisting of A. Ghiorso, 
B. G. Harvey, G. R. Choppin, S. G. Thompson, and the author, an- 
nounced the discovery of element 101. We gave the new element 
the name mendelevium in recognition of the pioneering role of Dmitri 
Mendeleev, who was the first to use the periodic system of the elements 
to predict the chemical properties of undiscovered elements. Subse- 
quent experiments using larger amounts of einsteinium in the target 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 257 

have led to the production of over 100 atoms of mendelevium. The 
indications are that mendelevium is a typical tripositive actinide 
element and a true eka-thulium, as expected. 

ELEMENT 102 

The discovery of element 102 was announced in 1957 as the result of 
work done at the Nobel Institute for Physics in Stockholm by a team 
of scientists from the Argonne National Laboratory, the Atomic 
Energy Research Establishment at Harwell, and the Nobel Institute. 
An isotope of the element was reportedly produced by bombarding 
Cm-** with cyclotron-produced C^^^""*^ ions and decayed with a half- 
life of about 10 minutes by the emission of 8 • 5 MeV alpha particles. 
The name nobelium for element 102 was suggested by this group. 
Unfortunately it has not been possible to confirm this discovery in 
experiments performed at the University of California Radiation 
Laboratory. In April 1958 a group consisting of Ghiorso, T. Sikke- 
land, J. R. Walton, and the author at the Radiation Laboratory 
identified the isotope 102^^* as a product of the bombardment of Cm^'*^ 
with C^^ ions accelerated in the new heavy-ion linear accelerator 
there. (The reaction is Cm2*«(C^^ 4n)102-54). The element 102 
isotope decays by alpha-particle emission with a half-life of about 
3 seconds. It was detected by the chemical identification of its known 
daughter Fm^'^", the atoms of the daughter element being separated 
from the parent element 102 by taking advantage of the recoil due to 
element 102 alpha-decay. Although the name nobelium for element 
102 will undoubtedly have to be changed, the investigators have not, 
at the time of writing, made their suggestion for the new name. 

COMPARISON OF ACTINIDES AND LANTHANIDES 

The resemblance between the actinide and lanthanide elements sug- 
gests that their electronic structures must be similar. In the lanthanide 
elements, the 14 4f electrons are added one by one, beginning with 
cerium (atomic number 58) and ending with lutetium (atomic num- 
ber 71) . In the actinide elements, 14 5f electrons are added, beginning 
formally with thorium and ending with element 103. The evidence 
for this, which is too complex and lengthy to discuss in this article, 
lies in the chemical properties, absorption and fluorescence spectra in 
aqueous solution and crystals, crystallographic structure data, mag- 
netic data, and spectroscopic data. The lanthanide gadolinium, with 
seven 4f electrons, and the actinide curium, with seven 5f electrons, 
are of especial interest because of the enhanced stability of the half- 
filled f-electron shell configuration. The two elements have been found 
to have properties that are strikingly similar. The family relation- 
ship within the actinide group means that the study of any one of 



258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

them often gives indirect information about the chemical properties 
of another. Thus certain anomalous elution sequences among the 
transplutonium elements have made it possible to make deductions 
about the chemical properties of plutonium in relation to its electronic 
structure. 

There are important differences between the actinide and lanthanide 
elements, however, due largely to the lower binding energies and less 
effective sliielding by outer electrons of 5f (as compared to 4f ) elec- 
trons. It appears that the first 5f electron is not present in thorium. 
Evidence to date indicates that uranium possesses three 5f electrons. 
The additional 5f electrons apparently are added to the succeeding 
elements in a regular fashion, proceeding through curium with its 
half-filled shell to the as yet undiscovered element 103 which pre- 
sumably will have 14 5f electrons. In the early m.embers of the 
actinide group particularly, the lower binding energies of the 5f elec- 
trons compared to the 4f electrons tend to make higher oxidation states 
more accessible. For these lighter actinide elements, the problem of 
assignment of electrons to 5f or 6d orbitals is difficult, since here the 
energy separations apparently lie within the range of chemical bind- 
ing energies. It may not be possible to establish from the configura- 
tion of the gaseous atom the electronic structure of the compounds or 
of hydrated ions in aqueous solution. In the case of the lanthanide 
elements, the configuration of the gaseous atom includes, in general, 
only two electrons (beyond the xenon structure) outside the 4f shell, 
although the predominant oxidation state in aqueous solution is the 
trivalent state. It may also be noted that for a given element in the 
actinide group there is a stabilization of 5f compared to 6d electrons 
with increasing oxidation state. 

However, the differences between the actinide and lanthanide groups 
give opportunities for the investigation of important new chemical 
phenomena. For example, their energetic position and larger spatial 
extension make the 5f orbitals available in bond hybridization; this 
leads to some very interesting complex ions. Similarly, the exposure 
of the 5f electrons can lead to field-splitting effects which can affect 
ionic entropies in manners which have not been observed in the lighter 
elements. 

FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS 

The discovery of further new transuranium elements seems possible. 
Studies of the known isotopes of the transuranium elements have 
made possible the prediction of the decay properties of new isotopes. 
For decay by both alpha-particle emission and spontaneous fission, the 
regularities have ])een found to be greatest for nuclei which contain 
an even number of neutrons and an even number of protons, thus 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 259 

making predictions of the properties for undiscovered isotopes of this 
type more certain. The rates of decay by alpha-particle emission 
and by spontaneous fission are slower for isotopes having an odd 
number of protons or an odd number of neutrons or an odd number 
of both protons and neutrons. Unfortunately for the prospect of 
producing ever higher elements, the predictions suggest shorter half- 
lives as atomic number increases. By the time elements 104 and 105 
are reached, we shall probably find that the longest-lived isotopes that 
can be made will exist barely long enough for chemical identification. 
In the case of element 104, the predicted half-lives of the longest-lived 
isotopes are measui'ed in seconds or minutes and for element 105 in 
seconds. It should be mentioned, however, that any of these nuclides 
can have a specially hindered decay, leading to longer half-lives than 
those predicted. It is likely that the present basic criterion for the 
discovery of a new element, namely chemical identification and separa- 
tion from all previously known elements, will have to be changed at 
some point. Careful measurements of decay properties and produc- 
tion yields and mechanisms, and the clever use of recoil techniques, 
should eventually allow the extension of effective identification to 
another half-dozen elements or so beyond the heaviest now known. 
In fact the identification of the firet isotopes of all the new elements 
that will be discovered in the future probably will be accomplished 
through the use of such methods, and the production of isotopes with 
sufficiently long half-lives to allow chemical identification will follow 
later. For the isotopes with very short half-lives, some chemical 
identification can probably be made using simpler and faster methods 
involving migration, volatility, reactions with surfaces, or gas-flow 
reactions. 

Some interesting predictions concerning superheavy nuclei have 
been made. J. A. Wheeler has been able to show that extranuclear 
electrons for atoms with atomic number substantially higher than 137 
(often considered the upper limit) would behave normally because of 
the finite extension of the nucleus. Accordingly it would aj^pear that 
there is no limitation on the existence of such heavy elements from the 
standpoint of the electronic structure of such atoms. The production 
of such nuclei would require extremely high neutron fluxes, of the 
order of 10" neutrons per square centimeter per second, such as may 
be present in stars. It is difficult to see how such nuclei can be made 
on earth. There is no indication that such superheavy nuclei can 
be produced and detected, because the rate of decay increases rapidly 
as the atomic number increases. Unless unexpected islands of sta- 
bility due to closed neutron or proton shells are found, predictions 
based on regularities in decay properties suggest that it should not be 
possible to produce and detect elements beyond another half dozen 
or so. 



260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

The prediction of the chemical properties of elements beyond men- 
delevium seems to be quite straightforward. Element 103 should 
complete the actinide series, and it is expected that elements 104, 105, 
106, etc., will be fitted into the periodic table under hafnium, tanta- 
lum, tungsten, etc. The filling of the 6d electronic shell should be 
followed by the addition of electrons to the 7p shell, with the attain- 
ment of the rare gas structure at hypothetical element 118. It seems 
quite certain that the chemical identification of elements 102 and 
103 will eventually be made by ion exchange, using knowledge of 
their homologs ytterbium and lutetium and other actinide elements. 
Element 102 might be expected to have a stable trivalent oxidation 
state and a somewhat unstable bivalent state which may be of impor- 
tance in the chemical identification of the element. The bivalent state 
of element 102, if it is comparable in stability to the bivalent state of 
ytterbium, may permit a rapid separation of element 102 from the 
other actinide elements by electrolytic or amalgam reduction using 
ytterbium as a carrier. The stability of the bivalent state may be 
reflected in the properties of the metallic state of the element, result- 
ing in an unusually low density and a relatively high volatility. Ele- 
ment 103 might be expected to have only a trivalent oxidation state. 
Element 104 should be exclusively tetravalent in aqueous solution and 
should resemble its homolog hafnium. Element 105 should re- 
semble niobium and tantalum, and to some extent protoactinium, with 
the pentavalent oxidation state expected to be the most important. 
The chemical properties of element 106 can be predicted from those of 
tungsten, molybdenum, and to some extent chromium ; thus we might 
expect to find the iii, iv, v, and vi oxidation states. Elements 107, 
108, 109, 110, etc., would be expected to have chemical resemblance to 
rhenium, osmium, iridium, and platinum respectively. 

The possibility of preparing transfermium elements by the process 
of multiple neutron capture as a result of intense neutron bombard- 
ment over long periods of time is almost precluded by the fact that 
some of the intermediate isotopes have half-lives so short as to pro- 
hibit their presence in such appreciable concentrations as are required. 
Fortunately, there is another type of nuclear reaction that offers prom- 
ise for the production of elements of higher atomic number than those 
now known. This is the method of bombardment with heavy ions. 
Reactions of this type have already been observed in many laborato- 
ries; isotopes of calif ornimn, einsteinium, and fermium have been pro- 
duced by the bombardment of uranium with carbon ions, nitrogen 
ions, and oxygen ions, respectively. These ions can be accelerated 
in conventional cyclotrons. A linear accelerator capable of produc- 
ing substantial beams of all the heavy ions up to neon and, possibly, 
usable beams of ions as heavy as those of argon has been constructed 



TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS — SEABORG 261 

at the University of California at Berkeley. A similar accelerator is 
in operation at Yale University. Russia has shown a great interest 
in heavy ions and their application to the synthesis of transuranium 
elements and has accelerators for heavy ions mider construction. 
Even with use of heavy ions, however, the source of target materials 
will present serious problems. New, expensive, high-flux reactors, 
producing 10^^ to 10^*^ neutrons per square centimeter per second, are 
needed in order to prepare even milligram amounts of berkelium, 
californium, and einsteinium within a reasonable space of time. 

This short article has, of necessity, omitted even reference to many 
of the important aspects of the transuranium element field. In par- 
ticular, it has not been possible to capture the international flavor of 
the work which has gone on in recent years. The emphasis has been 
on the chemical properties, the historical aspects, and the possibilities 
for future advances in this field. Much of interest could be told of the 
methods of production and of the many new long-lived isotopes which 
are becoming available in weighable amounts. The nuclear properties, 
which were barely mentioned, are of great interest. Over 80 isotopes 
of the transuranium elements are now known. The decay properties 
of these have been of great importance for the development of the 
Copenhagen school's unified model of the nucleus, and the induced and 
spontaneous fission properties of such isotopes are very important to 
the future development of a satisfactory theory for the nuclear-fission 
process. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Brtjni, G. 

1957. Chimica generale e inorganica. 10th ed. G. R. Levi and M. A. 
RoUier, eds. Milan. 
Gol'danskh, V. I. 

1955. New chemical elements (in Russian), ser. 3, No. 2. Moscow. 
Haissinsky, M. 

1957. La chimie nucl6aire et ses applications. Paris. 
Hyde, E. K., and Seaborg, G. T. 

1957. The transuranium elements. Handb. Phys., vol. 42, p. 205. Berlin. 
International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, Geneva, 
1955. 

1956. Proceedings. Vols. 1-16. United Nations, New York. 
Katz, J. J., and Seabokg, G. T. 

1957. The chemistry of the actinide elements. New York. 
Lister, M. W. 

1950. Chemistry of the transuranic elements. Vol. 4, p. 20. Chemical Soc, 

London. 
Melandeb, L. 

1951. Om transuranerna. Svensk Kem. Tidskr., vol. 63, p. 311. 
Nast, Reinhard, and von Krakkay, Tibor. 

1952. Chemie und Aktinidentheorie der Transurane. Fortschr. Chem. 

Forsch., Bd. 2, Heft 3, p. 484. 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Peblman, I., and Rasmussen, J. O. 

1957. Alpha radioactivity. Handb. Phys., vol. 42, p. 109. Berlin. 
Remy, H. 

1956. Treatise on inorganic chemistry. Vol. 2. London. 
Seabobg, G. T. 

1949. The eight new synthetic elements. (In Japanese.) Kagaku, vol. 19, 
p. 211. 

1958. The transuranium elements. Yale University Press, New Haven. 
Seaborg, G. T., and Katz, J. J., Editors. 

1954. The actinide elements. National Nuclear Energy Series, Div. 4, vol. 

14A. New York. 
Seaborg, G. T. ; Katz, J. J. ; and Manning, W. M., Editors. 

1949. The transuranium elements. National Nuclear Energy Series, Div. 

4, vol. 14B. New York. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long 
as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The IGY in Retrospect 



By Elliott B. Roberts 

Coast and Geodetic Survey 
United States Department of Commerce 



[With 3 plates] 



On December 31, 1958, there was concluded a worldwide intellec- 
tual effort often characterized as the greatest cooperative enterprise 
for peaceful purposes in all human history. Between 20,000 and 
30,000 scientists of 67 nations, with innumerable supporting workers, 
endeavored to expand man's understanding of his physical environ- 
ment. This was the International Geophysical Year. 

It is truly remarkable that such an enterprise was successfully 
planned and executed, in a period of unprecedented political passions 
and tension, through direct contact between scientists themselves 
without recourse to diplomatic intervention or formal treaties. As 
a result we have new and powerful ties on an individual level be- 
tween leading scientists of many lands, mounting understanding for 
one another, a great breach in the Iron Curtain, and a demonstration 
that men of many races and political faiths can work together fmit- 
fully. Even if these accomplishments cannot be exactly evaluated, 
their meaning for the world is deep and pervasive. 

A number of gi'eat discoveries were made and more will inevitably 
grow out of the gradual assimilation, in j^ears to come, of the accumu- 
lated data of the IGY. The borders of our knowledge of man's 
environment were pushed back in several important respects, with an 
already vast and growing store of new knowledge which will sharply 
influence the course of human development. 

The space age was inaugurated under the auspices of the IGY; 
study and exploitation of our last geographical frontiers in Antarc- 
tica and over the oceans began to flourish in a new spirit of inter- 
national cooperation; the age-old concern of all mankind with weather 
received tremendous new impetus ; and human beings took bold steps 
toward better understanding of the earth itself, its physical structure 
and its gravitational and magnetic fields; of its earthquakes, oro- 
genic processes and glaciation ; of the chemical and physical processes 

263 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

of its oceans and atmosphere; and of its all-important relations to our 
sun. 

One of the great physical-science discoveries of all time was made 
by a member of the small group of geophysicists who were the actual 
creators of the IGY. It was at an informal meeting at the Silver 
Spring, Md., home of James A. Van Allen that this group met on 
April 3, 1950, to discuss geophysical matters with a renowned visiting 
British upper atmosphere scientist, Sidney Chapman. Among those 
present was Lloyd V. Berkner, a foremost American scientist, then of 
the Carnegie Institution of Washington, who there proposed a suc- 
cessor to two previous international efforts known as International 
Polar Years. This was the genesis of the IGY — an undertaking des- 
tined to bring Dr. Van Allen to fame as discoverer of the great Van 
Allen radiation belts in space surrounding the earth. The implica- 
tions of his discovery are as yet unimaginable, but they are certainly 
tremendous — quite possibly comparable with those attending the dis- 
covery of radio waves. 

THE FIRST AND SECOND INTERNATIONAL POLAR YEARS 

The first and second polar years were, in a sense, models for the 
IGY. The famous American naval officer M. F. Maury liad sug- 
gested international scientific exploration of Antarctica as early as 
1861, but his rather limited proposals did not meet with acceptance. 
Karl Weyprecht, an Austrian explorer-scientist, who had interested 
himself in the then-inexplicable vagaries of weather, the compass, and 
auroral displays experienced by 19th-century Arctic explorers, later 
proposed an international effort to acquire simultaneously data from 
a circumpolar chain of stations. There resulted in 1882-83 a so-called 
International Polar Expedition, under what was later known as the 
International Meteorological Organization. Tlie agreed term of oc- 
cupation was a 13-month interval known as the International Polar 
Year beginning August 1, 1882. It happened that solar activity at 
the time was near a peak of the 11,2-year recurrence cycle. 

Twelve countries rallied to Weyprecht's call, establishing 12 stations 
in the Arctic and 2 in sub-Antarctica. Weyprecht did not live to 
see the realization of his idea; however, the scientific world received 
an important new mass of data, a heightened awareness of complex 
relationships between several of the manifestations under observa- 
tion, and the stimulus of working together without regard to political 
or racial barriers. 

The Second International Polar Year followed a 1927 proposal by 
J. Giorgi of Hamburg. It was carried on by a special commission of 
the International Meteorological Organization, with D. LaCour of 
the Danish Meteorological Institut-e as its guiding spirit. The ob- 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 265 

serving period, August 1, 1932, to August 31, 1933, was designed to be 
50 years after the first polar year, and due note was made of the fact 
that this, unlike the former period, would be one of mmimum solar 
activity. The objectives included investigations in the newer dis- 
ciplines of ionospheric physics and cosmic-ray studies. 

This second effort saw the establishment of 35 special stations by 
20 nations, which, together with more than 60 regular establishments, 
made nearly 100 observing points. One was in Antarctica. J. A. 
Fleming and N. H. Heck of the United States served on the commis- 
sion, and the major American contributions were magnetic, auroral, 
and ionospheric observations at Fairbanks and Point Barrow, Alaska, 
auroral studies in Greenland, and widespread weather observations. 

The accomplishments included substantial progress toward under- 
standing magnetic storms and other magnetic disturbances and asso- 
ciated auroral and ionospheric phenomena, and improved knowledge 
of wind and pressure systems in high latitudes of the Northern Hemi- 
sphere. A vast collection of data resulted, some of which still awaits 
types of analysis that only modern high-speed computers can provide. 

BEGINNINGS OF THE IGY 

The group in Dr. Van Allen's home in 1950, aware of the rapid 
advances in geophysics, especially in ionospheric investigations, per- 
ceived the desirability of a third and still greater effort, this time 
after a period of only 25 years and this time by design to coincide with 
another peak of the solar-activity cycle. It was recognized that the 
field of observation would be far wider than just the polar areas. 

Sidney Chapman, then president of the International Union of 
Geodesy and Geophysics (lUGG) as well as of one of its constituent 
associations on terrestrial magnetism and electricity (lATME — later 
lAGA), and Lloyd V. Berkner, a member of the United States 
National Committee for the International Union of Scientific Radio 
(UKSI), referred the matter to three international scientific organi- 
zations, of which the first to meet was the Mixed Commission on the 
Ionosphere (MCI), maintained by URSI with the cooperation of 
lUGG and the International Astronomical Union (lAU) . The Com- 
mission, followed later by URSI and lAU, endorsed the proposal to 
the International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU), a top-level 
coordinating body. In January 1951, ICSU commended the idea to 
its own executive board, which, in the following October, decided to 
form a special ICSU committee to run the show. This committee, 
which turned out to be of protem nature, together with other inter- 
ested organizations, took preliminary steps resulting in several effec- 
tive actions. 

Nations adhering to ICSU were invited to form national committees 
to organize their own participation in the project. The polar-year 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

concept was broadened to encompass the world, since the phenomena 
originally considered characteristic of the polar regions were now 
known to be but intense manifestations of worldwide phenomena, and 
the new name "International Geophysical Year'' was adopted. A 
geodetic project of the lUGG and URSI for a new world-longitude 
determination was included. The World Meteorological Organization 
(WMO) and later the International Union of Pure and Applied 
Physics (lUPAP) were welcomed to the company. Most important, 
by early July 1953, a full Special Committee for the International 
Geophysical Year (CSAGI) had been convened. In its first meet- 
ing. Dr. Chapman and Dr. Berkner were elected president and vice 
president, and Marcel Nicolet of Belgium was designated permanent 
secretary. The committee contained representatives of lAU, lUGG, 
URSI, WMO, ICSU, the International Geographical Union (IGU), 
and later lUPAP, suitably distributed by nationality. 

The IGY was considered at first as being divided among 11 disci- 
plines comprising such representative coverage of geophysics as 
meteorology, latitude and longitude determinations, geomagnetism, 
the ionosphere, aurorae and airglow, solar activity, cosmic rays, 
glaciology, and oceanography. The work was planned to be supported 
by a variety of constructive operations such as the choice and 
announcement of selected World Days for intensive observations, the 
organization of world data centers for the collection and dissemina- 
tion of technical results, and a program of publication covering all 
aspects of the IGY. The eventual performance of the work followed 
generally along the indicated lines ; however, there were some changes, 
such as the later inclusion of gravity determinations and seismology, 
and the organization in some countries of such specialized logistic or 
operational activities as polar expeditions (notably to Antarctica), 
rocketry, and earth satellite experimentation. 

The original plan, subject to extensive later additions, dealt with 
broad objectives toward which the participating countries would work. 
In meteorology it included global atmospheric circulation, energy 
content and dynamics, ozone, cloud physics, and radio atmospherics 
and electricity. In geomagnetism the principal problems were the 
morphology of magnetic storms and transient effects, relations with 
the ionosphere, and the equatorial electrojet. Synoptic studies of 
aurorae, especially in relation to magnetic storms, were planned, as 
well as the betterment of auroral charts, spectrographic and photo- 
metric studies, and corresponding treatment of airglow phenomena. 
Ionospheric work was to include extensive recordings of layer heights, 
radio absorption and scatter effects, and galactic noises. Solar-activ- 
ity work was to be intensified and to include observations of radiation, 
sunspots and flares, the corona, and general spectroscopy. Cosmic- 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 



267 



ray studies were important for their implications regarding solar and 
geophysical effects, especially in relation to magnetic fields of the sun, 
the earth, and space, and to cosmic-ray interactions with the atmos- 
phere. Latitude and longitude work was directed to improve time 
determinations and star catalogs and to determine the irregularities 
of the earth's rotation. Glaciological and oceanographic work, orig- 
inally considered not to be of synoptic nature, and therefore of minor 
IGY significance, eventually grew into major projects because of their 
importance in the heat balance and chemical problems of meteorology. 
Oceanography in particular loomed large because of the intimate 
relations of the oceans to many problems of weather and terrestrial 
dynamics and because of the vast natural resources of the oceans. 
Emphasis throughout was placed on worldwide views of all these geo- 
physical phenomena, and particularly on intensive investigations in 
little-known Antarctica. 



THE OPERATION OF IGY 



^ World Data ^ 
" Centers f 



Sponsor 



^ National W 
f Planning f 



International 
Coordination 



Observational Period 



Research and 
Evaluation 



Publica- 
tions 




Figure 1 

Inevitably many other detailed aspects of these disciplines, as 
well as entirely new and unanticipated problems, demanded attention 
before the IGY was even well started. Wliile the original concept, 
derived from the polar-year experiences, envisioned a progi-am con- 
centrating on synoptic problems, secondary objectives presented them- 
selves and were admitted to provide for types of work that would be 
facilitated by the basic IGY activities, or that could constitute epochal 
measurements for secular change studies. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE IGY 

One of the first aims of CSAGI was to enlist the cooperation of as 
many countries as possible — ideally all scientifically competent na- 
tions. At one of the formal meetings of CSAGI at Rome in 1954, 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Moscow sent a delegation to announce the intentions of the Soviet 
Union to participate — a development of strong accelerating effect, 
since no less than 66 nations eventually joined. Another significant 
event occurred at Rome. Following shortly after initial recommenda- 
tions from URSI and lUGG, the CSAGI group formally proposed 
that countries able to do so undertake to place artificial earth satel- 
lites in orbit for the uniquely valuable observations seen to be possible 
by such means. Thus geophysicists hoped to acquire otherwise inac- 
cessible information bearing on the cause and formation of the aurora, 
on the fluctuations of the earth's magnetic field, on the roles of the 
solar ultraviolet. X-ray and particle radiation, and on cosmic-ray 
phenomena. 

Flights of earth satellites and space exploration were soon to be- 
come realities in any event. It was nevertheless a direct result of 
the agreement reached at Rome that the United States and the Soviet 
Union embarked at this time on what was to become perhaps man's 
most adventurous scientific enterprise. It was of course destined to 
produce results far beyond the initial expectations of CSAGI. 

In the United States a national committee was established by the 
National Academy of Sciences, headed by Joseph Kaplan, and func- 
tioning with a secretariat headed by Hugh Odishaw as executive 
director. This committee became the focus of a large structure of 
technical panels, geographical committees, and other special groups, 
including a broad cross section of leading American geophysicists. 
The National Science Foundation, mider technical guidance of the 
committee, prepared budget estimates and obtained congressional ap- 
propriations with which the large U.S. program was funded. Great 
logistic and operational contributions were made also by defense 
agencies, particularly for Antarctic expeditionary activities and 
rocket and satellite work. 

The IGY grew to the status of big business. Directly appropriated 
U.S. funds amounted to some $43.5 million, and the estimated value 
of contributions from Federal agencies was in the order of $500 
million, including logistics, Antarctic operations, missilery, etc. The 
effort of the Soviet Union was evidently equal to, and may have ex- 
ceeded, that of America. The contributions of numerous other coun- 
tries were impressive too — in a number of cases greater in relation to 
population or national wealth than the U.S. effort. A loose estimate 
of the total contributions of all nations would come to something like 
$2 billion. 

THE SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF IGY 

No comprehensive account or full appraisal of the scientific results 
is yet possible. Tlie IGY was primarily a period of observation and 
data gathering, and it will require years for the world scientific com- 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 269 

mimity to analyze so much material — masses of data not yet even 
collected in any one place. At this time we must be content, there- 
fore, with some broad views suggestive of the scope of the work, with 
an indication of some major findings and a few of the implications. 
It is also impractical in a short account to refer to the many indi- 
viduals and institutions deserving credit for what has been done. 

In practically all disciplines the IGY work served dramatically to 
raise new problems and to broaden our realization of the vastness of 
the unknowns into which we are, so to speak, poking exploratory 
fingers. The IGY produced many more questions than it answered. 
Lloyd Berkner has said that it is like coming from outer space and 
finding a new planet. 

The IGY investigations fit well into groupings based on major 
relationships between disciplines. One such scheme comprises: (a) 
The upper atmosphere, adjacent space, and solar influences; (h) the 
heat and water budget of the earth, comprising meteorology and re- 
lated aspects of oceanography and glaciology ; and (c) the solid earth. 

PHYSICS OF THE UPPER ATMOSPHERE, SPACE, AND THE SUN 

Interplanetary space suddenly became important — and useful. The 
IGY showed us much about it. We learned that there is no definite 
end to the atmosphere. In its vague outer regions, at perhaps 3,000 
kilometers, it is almost indistinguishable from space itself. Solar and 
cosmic streams of elementary particles pass in undiminished intensity, 
forming with meteors the most important factors of the environment. 
The electrical and chemical activity of the upper atmosphere and of 
interplanetary space is due to X-rays and ultraviolet light, protons 
and electrons, meteors, and cosmic rays. There are present also elec- 
tric and magnetic fields due to the movements of charged particles, 
and everywhere there is gravity, the weakest of known forces but 
perhaps the most important in the universe. Atomic hydrogen is 
also everywhere, in densities of perhaps 6 to 600 atoms per cubic centi- 
meter. Previously unknown meteor streams were found, but the 
density of meteors and meteoritic dust, feared to imperil space 
vehicles, was found gratifyingly low. 

Within 10 earth diameters there exists an actual hydrogen atmos- 
phere, with a density at 500 kilometers as great as 100,000 atoms per 
cubic centimeter — this being ingeniously deduced from ultraviolet 
measurements made by nighttime and daylight rockets. Nearer the 
earth, atmospheric densities in the 200-500-kilometer band were found 
several times greater than previously supposed, as shown by observed 
retardation in the velocities of satellites. The density, moreover, 
exhibits strong variations supposedly due to the heating effect of 
particle collisions following solar bursts — this is suggested by satel- 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

lite perturbations unquestionably related to the 27-day solar rotation, 
to specific solar flares, and to geomagnetic activity. 

The sun. — The sun, generator and moderator of the physical forces 
affecting the earth, became a primary focus of attention. More than 
100 patrols maintained watch upon it nearly every minute of the IGY, 
and 30 or more observatories, including 7 in the United States, photo- 
graphed the sun at 3-minute intervals, comprising in effect an unprece- 
dented motion-picture study. A notable achievement was the new 
order of fineness achieved in the photography of the granulation of 
the sun's surface, employing a combination of telescope and automatic 
sun pointer from a balloon at 80,000 feet. Thus we have the most 
detailed solar record in liistory, and for the first time an almost com- 
plete record of hydrogen gas flares, the influence of which upon the 
earth's ionosphere ranks among the most dramatic events in solar- 
terrestrial relationships. Sudden effects, caused by the bursts of 
ultraviolet light and soft X-rays, are seen in magnetic recordings, 
fadeouts of shortwave radio, enhancement of atmospherics (radio 
static) , and reductions in cosmic radio noise level. 

The sun cooperated notably by achieving the highest level of activity 
ever known. On Christmas Day of 1957 the greatest number of sun- 
spots occurred since Galileo first reported them in 1612. Flares 
abounded. From this fabulous record a drastically modified concept 
of sun-earth relationships and of the conditions of interplanetary 
space has been derived. 

Many sources of solar radiation were identified. Remarkably fine 
and detailed photographs showed the ultraviolet light source to be in 
patches closely associated with calcium plages (flocculi or clouds). 
Solar hydrogen flares are identified as a source of gamma radiation. 
Radio emissions of thermal generation were confirmed from coronal 
regions at much lower temperatures than previously believed possible. 
Radio noise emissions, noted to be associated with optical flares and 
energetic proton flux, await full explanation. Balloon measurements 
during eclipses have indicated the corona to be the source of X-rays, 
possibly an important factor in the causes of radio blackouts — ^the 
most widely known and troublesome of solar effects. Strong X-ray 
flux was discovered at 60,000 to 90,000 feet during auroral displays 
accompanying ionospheric disturbances. 

The magnetic fields of the sun are perhaps the most important prob- 
lem in solar physics, since therein can be found the forces that acceler- 
ate the solar particles affecting space and our upper atmosphere. A 
main magnetic field of minor intensity exists, with the property of 
puzzling polarity reversals that are presumed to be associated with 
the dynamic conditions of solar material. Intense local fields accom- 
pany sunspots and flares, and correlations between changes of field 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 271 

strength and flare occurrence have been found. Finely detailed map- 
ping of the solar magnetic fields showed such small intensities as 1 
gauss or less, with resolution in the order of 1 second of arc. 

The corona is of vast extent and influence. Observations of electro- 
magnetic waves of various frequencies from radio stars at times of 
near conjunction with the sun indicated a coronal structure alined 
with residual magnetic fields out to distances of 20 or more solar radii. 
It has no definite limits and may extend indefinitely outward beyond 
the outer planets. It is believed to reach 7,000,000° F. in some parts, 
and Sidney Chapman has speculated that much thermal energy is, 
in fact, transferred to the earth's atmosphere through direct contact 
with the thin but hot gases of the corona, perhaps at 350,000° F. 

Radiation belts. — Space, we have seen, is far from empty. Among 
its features are the Van Allen radiation belts, intrinsically remarka- 
ble as well as an outstanding IGY discovery. Based on almost fan- 
tastically sparse probing up to the time of this writing, these two 
belts were tentatively described as annular shrouds about the earth, 
shaped by the typical force lines of the terrestrial magnetic- 
dipole field, and having northern and southern terminal cusps or 
edges pointing inward toward the auroral zones. Totally unexpected 
radiation intensities blocked the initial rocket probes with impos- 
sible counting loads, until Van Allen, with brilliant insight, provided 
modified counters. The vast outer belt of relatively soft, low-energy 
particles is most strongly developed in the zone between 3 and 4 earth 
radii distant from the earth's center, wdth maximum intensity perhaps 
m excess of 25,000 counts per second. It consists of charged particles — 
protons and electrons — captured by the geomagnetic field from clouds 
of plasma spewed forth from the sun. The inner belt, 2,200 to 5,500 
kilometers from the earth's surface, consists of very high-energy par- 
ticles of an origin yet unknown but suspected to be the decay products 
of cosmic-ray collisions. The particle count is somewhat lower than 
that of the outer belt. It has been said that despite the vast extent 
and intensity of the Van Allen belts, which would require billions of 
X-ray machines to duplicate, the materials present would amount to 
perhaps one-fifteenth of 1 omice of hydrogen ! Not enough is known 
about the identity and energy of the particles to provide good estimates 
of the radiation intensities. 

The implications are tremendous. Notwithstanding our slender 
knowledge, it appears that the energy budget of the outer atmosphere 
and the theory of magnetic storms and aurorae will be dominated by 
these belts. Their presence means that many types of instruments 
must be shielded and that severe problems may confront human space 
travelers, although little is yet known of the biological effects. (It is 
because of this that one hears suggestions that future space voyagers 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

may have to take off from the polar regions, escapiiig, so to speak, 
through the hole of the douglmut.) An interesting possibility is that 
similar belts may become useful as aids in detection of magnetic fields 
of other planets. 

Cosmic rays. — Cosmic rays are another important factor of the space 
environment, with various consequences for the earth. They are 
charged particles of ordinary matter like those propelled from the 
sun, but generally of cosmic origin and of vastly greater energies — 
some are believed to travel at speeds near that of light and to carry 
energy up to 10^^ electron volts — a billion times that achieved in man's 
best particle accelerators. They may represent half of all the energy 
in the universe. Through rocket and satellite observations, we know 
that such high-energy, or primary, cosmic rays are characteristic of 
space above the atmosphere and that in collisions with atmospheric 
molecules they produce showers of breakdown products of lower 
energy, called secondary cosmic rays, which reach lower levels. The 
sun has been found to influence cosmic-ray behavior near the earth, 
confronting us with an important factor in the study of magnetic space 
fields and magnetic storm effects. Cosmic rays display diminished 
intensity in general during sunspot activity, but there are shorter 
period fluctuations not so related. High-altitude aircraft observations 
of cosmic rays provided evidence leading to some refinement of our 
ideas about the configuration of the geomagnetic field at those and 
higher altitudes. 

High-atmosphere phenomena. — Our outer atmosphere is thus under 
radiation of various types — X-rays, ultraviolet light, hard and soft 
cosmic rays, and charged particles from space or the radiation belts, 
which enter along lines of magnetic force. A whole family of related 
phenomena results. Under radiation the atmospheric gases produce 
the luminous effects of aurorae and airglow. Ionization of the thin 
outer gases occurs in layers comprising the ionosphere. These sheets 
of ions reflect or refract electromagnetic waves, providing the basis of 
long-distance radio communication, and they support electric-current 
systems and magnetic fields in grand patterns. 

When the radiation becomes irregular, as at times of solar disturb- 
ances, the ionization is chaotic. Radio signals fade or black out, and 
the changing magnetic fields produce geomagnetic unrest and mag- 
netic storms. Solar activity, radio-wave propagation disturbances, 
auroral displays, and magnetic storms had therefore to be considered 
together in broadly comprehensive views during the IGY. 

The ionosphere. — This feature is in fact a series of concentric shells 
of ionized gases about the earth in configurations determined by the 
gas densities and chemical compositions. IGY observers carried out 
continuous intensive monitoring of the ionosphere, using vertical-inci- 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 273 

dence and oblique radio probes or soundings from the ground to deter- 
mine ionospheric conditions by echo recordings. They observed radio- 
wave propagation characteristics under all manner of conditions, and 
they sought to find the extent, magnitude, and location of electric 
currents comprising streams of the ionized particles. 

The ionospheric electric currents are particularly intense and com- 
plex in the auroral zones, but they exist everywhere in some form. 
Interesting features of local ionization and a strong electric current 
were found in the close vicinity of the magnetic equator. Much was 
learned about the neutral and ionized gases of the ionospheric re- 
gions — helpful information in the problem of determining the best 
working radiofrequencies to suit conditions. Scatter propagation of 
radio waves, often useful despite disturbed conditions, was studied 
intensively. Among the techniques responsible for such findings were 
geomagnetic studies and the analysis of radio signals from earth 
satellites. 

Geomagnetism. — The geomagnetic program of the IGY was di- 
rected mainly toward the investigation of magnetic storms and other 
transient phenomena related to the ionospheric electric currents. 
Special arrays of recording stations were used to discover the dimen- 
sions of the magnetic fields in question, and thus to describe the cur- 
rent streams and systems. Among such arrays were ingenious "dif- 
ferential magnetographs" designed to record the field gradients across 
station arrays continuously as they fluctuate. 

Stations in several places close to the magnetic Equator strongly 
indicated the intensity and extent of the previously mentioned equa- 
torial electro jet — a powerful concentrated stream of current almost 
precisely along this zero-dip line. It exists chiefly on the sunlit side 
of the earth, and it must result from ionization by ultraviolet light 
or X-rays, rather than by energetic particles, which presumably can- 
not cross the magnetic field lines to that region. Electron and ion 
counts were made in the body of the current by rocket firings. The 
circuit return mechanism has not been determined. 

The large number of special IGY magnetic observatories, partic- 
ularly in Antarctica and other new places, provided working material 
for extensive investigations into many aspects of natural electric and 
magnetic phenomena and their relation to solar events. For the first 
time they furnished evidence of essentially simultaneous worldwide 
magnetic efi'ects, and served to round out our global concepts. Tel- 
luric currents (in the earth's crust), the result of induction from the 
ionospheric currents, were found in unexpectedly great intensity and 
wide distribution, finely dissected by local ground conditions. The 
combined effects of ionospheric and telluric currents posed complex 
new problems impeding analysis attempts. 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Pioneer work was done to disclose the secrets of geomagnetic field 
oscillations in the range between 1 and 100 cycles per second — a new 
area of research. Other experiments were designed to shed new light, 
if possible, on the old and unresolved question whether any real cor- 
relation of meteorological and geomagnetic effects exists. The Eus- 
sian nonmagnetic ship Zarya discovered many unknown magnetic 
anomalies in ocean depths. Meanwhile, the main magnetic-field 
anomalies were said by Kussian magneticians to be features of the 
depth of homogeneous magnetization, ruling out ferromagnetism of 
the crust as a source. 

Aurora and alrglow. — Auroral studies, difficult in a sense because 
by nature they do not submit to quantitative analysis, have never- 
theless been prominent because of the public interest in the auroral 
displays and because amateur contributions are possible on a wide 
scale. The program included photography of various kinds, spec- 
troscopy, position-finding observations, studies of extent and simul- 
taneity, and even probes by rocket shots. 

In general, it was found that aurorae are continuous throughout 
the extent of an isoclinic or magnetic dip line on the dark side of the 
earth. Motions within the aurorae progress from west to east — in 
this respect providing an unanswered mystery. 

A variety of nonpolar and less spectacular aurora is the airglow. 
Solar energy is stored, as in a huge chemical reaction chamber, in the 
outer fringes of the atmosphere, where the energy synthesizes many 
chemical compounds. These gradually decay, emitting light, the 
wavelengths of which indicate the particular reaction. On moonless 
nights, the luminescence may contribute substantially to the night 
light — perhaps as much as the stars themselves. The airglow is many 
times stronger in the hours when the upper atmosphere can receive 
direct sunlight. The program for its study included expanded net- 
works of ground stations as well as instrumented rocket flights for the 
exploration of the levels at which the various spectral lines are 
generated. Vast energy is involved which man may one day utilize 
with sufficient understanding of the circumstances. 

Auroral displays may become very widespread following violent 
solar events, as in the case of the outstanding solar flare of February 
9, 1958. This flare and its consequences were among the most in- 
tensively observed cosmic phenomena of all time and may have been 
the most important single event of the IGY. One day later, on the 
10th, auroral displays as high as 800 kilometers and visible as far 
south as Cuba followed the entry of the earth into the great plasma 
cloud produced by the flare. 

Protracted worldwide disturbances to communications by radio, as 
well as by land telegraph lines and ocean cables, accompanied this 



IGY IN RETROSPECT ROBERTS 275 

disturbance. The play of magnetic fields in the upper atmosphere 
induced potentials in transatlantic cables as great as 2,650 volts. 
From the moment of discovery of the original flare mitil the return 
of normal conditions several days later, all IGY scientists interested 
in space and the upper atmosphere had unexcelled opportunity to 
make coordinated observations, demonstrating the high value of the 
synoptic approach. 

Artificial radiation e-ffects. — An event of great interest, but not part 
of the IGY, showed, on August 1, 1958, that atomic bursts in the 
ionospheric regions are capable of producing artificial radiation 
and other widespread effects matching those of Nature itself. A 
nuclear explosion was produced by the United States in the ionosphere 
over the Pacific near Johnston Island, and within 1 minute a visible 
aurora was observed at Samoa — the first time in history ! Simultane- 
ously, Hawaii was aroused by a brilliant flash of light. Strong mag- 
netic disturbances were recorded on the magnetographs at Honolulu, 
Samoa, Palmyra, Fanning, and Jarvis Islands. Radio blackouts of 
circuits over a large Pacific Ocean area persisted for one or more 
days. The radiation was detected and reported during many hours 
by the earth satellite Explorer IV during its passages over the area. 
Another such explosion at lower height 11 days later produced some- 
what similar results. 

A significant circumstance is that the location of the blasts and the 
vicinity of the Samoan aurorae are conjugate points respecting the 
geomagnetic lines of force. Charged particles introduced into the 
field at one of the points would predictably reenter the atmosphere at 
the other, as occurred at Samoa. Such controlled tests tell much about 
hitherto inaccessible phenomena. 

A similar but even more dramatic demonstration was made, by 
definite design, in late August and early September 1958, when three 
small nuclear devices were exploded by the United States above the 
South Atlantic in the near vacuum of a region of relative minimum of 
natural radiation between the Van Allen layers. Immediately there 
were seen streaks of auroral luminescence along the maignetic lines of 
force, and a brilliant aurora was observed at the conjugate point near 
the Azores, where the particles, after spiraling along the lines out to 
distances as far as 6,500 kilometers into space, reentered the atmos- 
phere. Theoretical predictions of the external figure of the geo- 
magnetic fi-eld were verified. Following the now famous predictions 
of N. C. Christofilos, energetic particles immediately dispersed in a 
shell determined by the geomagnetic field, where they persisted during 
the battery lifetime of the satellite Explorer IV until late September. 
For the first time in history worldwide measurements were made on a 
completely controlled geophysical phenomenon, wherein a known 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

quantity of electrons of known energies was injected into the earth's 
field at known times and places. 

Another highly specialized investigation was directed toward the 
so-called whistler phenomenon. This involves the observation of elec- 
tromagnetic radiation from lightning discharges, which similarly fol- 
lows magnetic lines of force in the presence of a radiation field, to be 
lieard finally through radio receivers at the conjugate points as rising 
or falling whistle sounds. This is explained as being due to differences 
in the propagation rates of the different radio frequencies produ^ced 
by a lightning discharge. Unaccountably, however, whistlers have in 
some instances been heard over widespread areas not conjugate to each 
other ; hence the radiation is not necessarily confined to magnetic-field 
lines. 

New tools of man. — The use of rockets and earth satellites has in 
itself been a dramatic technical achievement, aside from the great 
value of the observational data so acquired. Ushering in, as they do, 
a new age of scientific exploration, they now provide exciting pros- 
pects of adding to human knowledge. Among the future objectives 
may be mentioned the further study of heat radiation, earth cloud 
cover, gravity and magnetic fields, the composition and processes of in- 
terplanetary media, life processes, the atmospheres, ionospheres, com- 
position and structure of tlie planets, new fields of astronomy, solar 
nuclear processes, and the validity of Einstein's general relativity. As 
this is written plans are afoot to conduct a "clock" experiment, to 
determine by use of atomic clocks in space probes whether time goes 
slower with speed of the observer. 

THE HEAT AND WATER BUDGET OF THE EARTH 

Weather and climate are among the most immediate preoccupations 
of man. In everything that he does, but especially in his activities 
in the fields, on the sea, and in the air, it exerts controlling influences 
over his very life and death. This, then, is nothing esoteric or "scien- 
tific" to the common man — it is his daily concern, and herein i\\Q IGY 
comes closest to his understanding. 

Studies bearing on weather have historically suffered from a paucity 
of worldwide simultaneous data. The highly transitory and vastly 
complex phenomena of weather constitute the very prototype of a 
problem demanding the synoptic approach. The requirements are in- 
stantaneous pictures of the state of the whole atmosphere and broad 
vistas of the patterns of its activity everywhere on earth. These the 
IGY undertook to approach as nearly as possible, and thus meteorol- 
ogy became the greatest single sphere of IGY investigation. 

Meteorology. — History's most effective steps toward the ideal of 
worldwide simultaneous data were taken in the IGY. For the first 



IGT IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 277 

time it became possible to compile reasonably detailed pole-to-pole 
cross sections and synoptic charts. This was achieved by the estab- 
lishment of three standard meridians — 10° and 140° E, and 70° W — 
along which the participating nations concentrated their observing 
stations ; by the opening of Antarctica to observation ; and by a gen- 
eral intensification of station layouts everywhere. These improve- 
ments in coverage, and the relentless penetration of the stratosphere 
by soundings to new heights, are rapidly advancing the state of 
scientific meteorology. 

Perhaps the most important IGY contribution to meteorology was 
the weather study of Antarctica. That bleak land has the world's 
coldest weather — a low temperature of 125.3° F. below zero is on 
record — but not all of Antarctica is that cold. Differences in the 
winter temperatures of portions of the continent equal those between 
Miami, Fla., and the Arctic. Old incorrect theories of the air circula- 
tion were laid at rest, and fundamental contrasts with northern polar 
weather were found. 

The intensely cold air reaches perhaps only 1 kilometer above the 
ground ; at greater heights the readings range 50° and more upward. 
It is accordingly believed that the Antarctic is not the major reason 
for the generally colder climate of the Southern Hemisphere. There 
are marked seasonal fluctuations of the stratosphere within a range 
as great as 150° F., a circumstance of high significance in the study 
of widespread climatic processes. The Antarctic stratospheric cy- 
clone, unlike its mobile Arctic counterpart, tends to linger near the 
South Pole. 

Air circulation is one of the main ingredients of the picture. It is 
now known that the Antarctic Continent presents no barrier to the 
free flow of tropospheric winds clear across the continent, distributing 
heat and moisture and greatly slowing the temperature fall during 
the polar night. In contrast, the stratospheric airmasses appear to 
be sealed off by a strong jet stream encircling the continent ; thus its 
temperature drops continuously in the winter. 

Important help in the exploration of upper air movements was 
afforded by modern balloon-borne radiosondes capable of reaching 
great heights. Natural radioactive tracer elements, such as tritium, 
also provided valuable clues. Worldwide circulation patterns exist. 
It was found that multiple jet streams at 9 to 12 kilometers exist even 
in high latitudes. Aside from research value, such information has 
already facilitated high-level jet-aircraft operations. 

A great deal of investigation was carried out to determine atmos- 
pheric temperatures and the content of water and other compounds 
such as carbon dioxide and ozone, which have significant parts in the 
general mechanics of weather. The oceans, source of most of the 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

water and much of the heat energy, were critically examined to deter- 
mine their temperature characteristics and the circulation of their 
watei-s. For the first time, for instance, we have a full year of 
observations of temperature and salinity to 100 meters and of tides 
and sea level all the way across the Pacific from South America to 
Australia. 

Among many special problems were such questions as the ocean- 
water absorption of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, as well as 
the concentration of that gas with height. It has been suggested 
lately that the worldwide carbon-dioxide concentration is increasing, 
by the burning of chemical fuels in man's engines, at such a rate 
that noticeable climatic changes, if not already upon us, are soon 
to be detected. Tliis follows from the so-called "greenhouse effect." 
Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide do not interfere with 
heat intake but inhibit infrared reradiation, thus conserving heat 
energy and producing a general warming up. Little America now 
has a mean temperature 5° F. warmer than when first occupied m 
1912, while that of Spitsbergen has risen 11° F. in the same time. 
Climatic studies showing mean temperature inci-eases, and other 
evidences such as glacier recession and the northern migration of 
warm-climate f amia, bear out this supposition. 

Ozone, the 3-atom form of oxygen, is present in substantial con- 
centrations, known to have some relationship with that of carbon 
dioxide. Ozone traps the extreme ultraviolet radiation which other- 
wise would interfere with the organic life of the earth. Ozone 
transport is not fully understood, but it is known to be related to 
the general circulation and to be useful, therefore, as a tracer element. 

With the impact of increased observations, better theories and high- 
speed computers, meteorologists are developing more certain weather- 
prediction capabilities. It has been said that better and long-range 
weather forecasts would be worth $100 million to the petroleum in- 
dustry alone. The value to transportation, business, and agriculture 
cannot be imagined. 

A vital factor in forecasting is the general synoptic view of water 
content, seen in part, at least, as cloud cover, and an unportant develop- 
ment in modern meteorology is the weather robot, a cloud-scanning 
earth satellite. Such a device provides a comprehensive picture show- 
ing the extent and distribution of cloud cover at one time over the 
wliole earth. Post-IGY satellites have achieved brilliant success 
in this undertaking. Similiar techniques will show the wind patterns, 
weather fronts, rain pockets, airborne gases, and temperatures. They 
will measure the heat soaked up by the earth from the sun and how 
much is discarded in turn. This information is of great value in 
supplementing the reports from thousands of ground stations, which 



Smithsonian Report, 1 959- -Roberts 



Plate 1 




•.* ».-.* 



1. Scanning photometer on Fritz Peak, Colo., for measuring the intensity of airglow and its 
changes. (Photograph courtesy National Bureau of Standards Boulder Laboratories.) 




2. Digging out at IGY Little America Station after the winter of 1957. The rawin tower 
dome is in the background. (Official U.S. Navy photograph.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Roberts 



PLATE 2 





< 



> 



.2 W 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Roberts 



PLATE 3 





Jlj 'bo ^ 









^ -S c 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 279 

altogether cover less than half the earth's surface, and in tying these 
observations together to reveal patterns unsuspected by the ground 
observer. Better storm warnings and longer-range forecasts will 
result. 

Many leading meteorologists believe that man's growing knowledge 
of atmospheric physics, and the acquisition of tremendous energy re- 
sources, will one day give him the power to control the weather. It is 
unnecessary to suggest the consequences for both peaceful pursuits and 
war activities. When it does happen, we can reflect that tlie IGY 
played a major role in producing such revolutionary changes in the 
human enviromnent. 

Oceanography. — The seas, last geographical frontier on earth, pre- 
vent easy access to some 71 percent of the surface of the globe. They 
have borne the ships of the world since the dawn of history. Alexan- 
der the Great went down in a diving bell, yet man has but recently be- 
gun to explore them on a large scale. Now suddenly they are placed 
in a bright new limelight. Oceanic waters exchange water and energy 
with the atmosphere, producing major effects upon the weather and 
climatic cycles of the earth. We are told that they could provide 
more organic food materials than all the land areas of earth put to- 
gether; on the other hand, they are perhaps a menacing frontier 
threatening submarine-launched missiles against our cities. All at 
once we have a need to learn everything about this well-nigh limit- 
less environment, and to survey it forthwith. It is already trite to 
repeat that we knovv^ less of the ocean floor than of the visible surface 
of the moon. Thus the IGY embraced oceanography without re- 
straint and it is just the beginning — a committee of the National 
Academy of Sciences has recommended an American oceanographic 
research program estimated to cost the Nation two-thirds of a billion 
dollars within the next 10 years. 

As in the case of the atmosphere, the circulation within this great 
body of fluids had to be investigated, for tremendous thermal, chemi- 
cal, and kinetic energy is involved. Indeed, ocean-water circulation 
may well be a clue to many mysteries of the weather. 

The ocean is a complex layered structure with mighty rivers on 
diverse and mostly unlviiown courses, and with areas of turbulence and 
upwelling. Exploration of the circulation patterns requires ships and 
many instruments, including current meters, and some help is given 
by the evidence of radioactive tracers. Three major countercurrents 
have been investigated. One lies 9,000 feet below the Gulf Stream, 
traveling south at some 8 miles a day. Long known to exist, it took 
the IGY to provide definition of its characteristics. The Cromwell 
Current of the Pacific was discovered as late as 1952. Occupying 
a broad band south of the Equator, it flows east 200 to 1,000 feet 

536608—60—19 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

below the westward drift known as the South Equatorial Current. It 
transports a billion cubic feet of water per second at 3.5 miles an hour. 
Even this prodigious movement is exceeded by the Pacific Equatorial 
Countercurrent, 200 miles north of the Equator, which carries east- 
ward half again as much — the equivalent of more than 2,000 JVIissis- 
sippi Rivers ! Oceanographers have not yet explained where all this 
water goes when it reaches the American Continent. 

The sources of great water masses must be known in studying the 
general circulation. The ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland, and 
smaller glaciers everywhere, obviously provide substantial amounts 
of water. (Many persons are by now familiar with the statement that 
if the Antarctic ice were to melt completely the oceans would rise some 
hundreds of feet above present levels — luckily, a matter of no immedi- 
ate hazard.) Analysis of the deep waters of the Atlantic shows stale- 
ness and oxygen starvation as compared with 30-year-old observa- 
tions. This suggests a lessening in recent years of cold polar water 
to carry fresh oxygen to the depths, a matter of concern in marine 
biology. Anomalous warm-water masses in the Pacific in recent 
years have been accompanied by unusual fish distribution and by 
apparent effects on climates, but the causes are not yet explained. 

The dynamic motions of the sea surface have had comparable at- 
tention. The U.S. island observatory program employed sensitive 
wave-metering devices and an unusual distribution of standard tide 
gages. Much information was derived leading to the analysis of 
water levels and the identification of short- and long-period waves up 
to several minutes in period, sea surges as much as an hour long, and 
other dynamic effects. Some of the motions may be related to tidal 
and earth-rotational mechanics; others are clearly meteorological in 
origin, with evidences of energy coupling between the water and atmos- 
pheric pressure systems even as high as the stratosphere. Possible 
benefits may be the future prediction of storms and damaging waves. 
Basic information was obtained about the steric sea level, which de- 
pends on total water volume, and we now have a growing idea of the 
changing shape of the sea surface during the period of the IGY. 

Gropings toward that other boundary, the bottom about which so 
little is known, derived important facts of several kinds. Deep 
trenches and a 1,000-mile range of sunken mountains were found in the 
Pacific. The mid-Atlantic ridge was more extensively explored, and 
its geological substructure probed with somid waves from under- 
water explosions — a process termed "seismic exploration." Large 
Pacific areas were examined minutely with ship-towed magnetometers, 
which found magnetic characteristics of the bottom rocks having 
great significance in the compilation of geologic and tectonic history. 
Tests indicated that the flow of heat energy from the crust into the 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 281 

oceans is substantially larger than formerly thought — still another 
factor in the heat-engine cycle. Perhaps the most immediately inter- 
esting of the ocean-floor discoveries was a scattering of iron and man- 
ganese nodules, mixed with nickel, cobalt, and copper, over millions of 
square miles of the southeast Pacific, in concentrations worth hundreds 
of thousands of dollars per square mile. The economics of dredging 
appears promising. 

Glaciology. — Like a smaller and less mobile counterpart of the sea, 
the ice deposits of the world store, and eventually release, water and 
thermal energy. Thus, they contribute their part to the endless cycle 
of weather and ocean phenomena. They also constitute valuable rec- 
ords of the past. 

The ice in Antarctica is 40 percent greater than formerly believed 
but is now diminishing. It averages 10,000 feet in depth and con- 
tains 90 percent of all the ice in the world, some 6i/^ million cubic 
miles. In many places on the high icy plateaus, 10,000 feet and more 
above the sea, the ice has been found by seismic prospecting methods 
to rest on underlying earth thousands of feet below sea level. Such 
discoveries show that we may have there a great archipelago in- 
stead of a single land; however, the IGY seismic explorations indi- 
cate a crustal structure of continental type. Perhaps it is a "foun- 
dered continent." It seems likely that removal of the ice would 
disclose a broad strait between the Weddell and the Eoss Seas, cutting 
Antarctica into two major land masses. 

Ice borings in Greenland and Antarctica have reached layers 
formed by the precipitation of more than a thousand years ago. 
These layers can be read like tree rings, and the thermal insulation 
is so good as to have preserved the temperatures of past centuries. 
Ancient climates are thus known, and clues to the future may be 
deducted. This is one of the ways in which we know of warming 
trends of world climates. 

We know, through observation of precipitation rates, that the 
Arctic has twice the snowfall of Antarctica. Pollen traces in perfect 
preservation and ash deposits at certain levels attest the atmospheric 
impurities of former times, and may give clues to ancient volcanic 
activity. 

Glaciological studies of the great ice caps and smaller glaciers 
throughout the world provided first steps toward an understanding 
of the regimen, behavior, and physical properties of the great volumes 
of water withheld by climatic conditions from free circulation. An 
understanding of heat balances and interface reactions was gained. 
It was learned that glacier behavior throughout the world is syn- 
chronous — recession is going on everywhere. Incidental results were 
the creation of a corps of world scientists willing and able to endure 
the rigoi-s of polar work and life, and in Antarctica, at least, a 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

demonstration that scientists of competitive political regimes can 
work cooperatively without fighting over questions of land owner- 
ship or jurisdiction. 

THE SOLID EARTH 

Solid-earth aspects of the IGY program included geodesy, gravity, 
and seismology, with overtones of oceanography, glaciology, and the 
flights of earth satellites. These subjects, unlike those dealing with 
transient phenomena which call for synoptic treatment, found places 
in the enterprise because they fell within the logistic resources 
organized for other IGY activities or because they could provide 
measurements of importance. Some results were fortuitous, as when 
geodesists found the orbital characteristics of satellites divulging 
unique information about the figure of the earth. The organized pro- 
grams in the solid-earth subjects were relatively small, and much of 
their technical results requires extensive study ; few important impli- 
cations, therefore, have yet come to light. 

Geodesy. — The framework of international cooperation established 
for the IGY was seen at t]ie outset to favor establishing a new and 
better measure of the longitude differences between continents and 
major isolated island groups, such as Hawaii. This was realized 
through use of new instruments and techniques, including the Amer- 
ican dual-rate moon camera, which provided new precision in the 
relation of terrestrial positions to the celestial firmament. Better 
absolute knowledge of geographic locations of the earth's landmasses 
was obtained, with advantages in mapping, operation of earth satel- 
lites, scientific studies of the earth, and the mechanics of its rotation, 
including problems of timekeeping. 

The incidental geodetic value of earth-satellite orbital observa- 
tions, particularly of Vanguard I, has been substantial. Observa- 
tions on such relatively near and fast-moving celestial bodies with 
well-determined orbits permit a new and higher order of positioning 
of isolated points beyond reach of the geodetic survey networks of 
the world. Analyses of orbital perturbations reflecting the irregu- 
lar distribution of the earth's mass have already indicated that the 
theoretical or mean figure of the earth may be unsymmetrical — 
slightly pear shaped rather than ellipsoidal, although the dissym- 
metry is very small. Active planning is in progress in the United 
States for the launching in the near future of geodetic satellites 
carrying special instruments m selected orbits designed for the full- 
est exploitation of these possibilities. 

Gravity and seismology. — These fields of study profited by the 
strong upsurge of interest in geophysics and the many fieldwork 
opportunities produced by the IGY. They contributed in unique 
ways to our knowledge of the structure of the earth. New gravi- 
meters, faster and more portable than the classic pendulum appara- 



IGY IN RETROSPECT — ROBERTS 283 

tus, permitted widespread detailed surveys of the earth's gravity 
field, supported by gravity surveys made in the search for petro- 
leum. Thus are disclosed the effects of irregular earth-mass distribu- 
tion, not only of mountains and ocean deeps that we can see 
but also of hidden ore bodies and structural irregularities of the 
earth's rocks. The new gravimeters are free of some of the limita- 
tions on use of the pendulum and have even been refined to cope with 
the accelerations of ship motion. Thus we may make gravity sur- 
veys of the watery three-fourths of the earth. It is believed, more- 
over, that airborne gravimeters will soon be an actuality. 

The gravimetry program, aside from general survey coverage and 
the accomplishment of several important Antarctic profiles, dealt 
with the problem of earth tides, in the measurement of wliich gravity 
observations play a leading part. Gravimeters are sufficiently sen- 
sitive to indicate not only the changes in the lunar and solar tide- 
producing forces but also the small changes in distance involved in 
the rise and fall of the earth's crust. Such motion at Washington 
is nearly 6 inches in amplitude. Thus the gravity work contributed 
to oiu" knowledge of the elastic constants of the earth and its crust, 
as well as of world mass distribution. 

The gravitational force, which man has learned to measure with 
exquisite precision — one part in a million for absolute determinations, 
and a hundred times better for relative measurements — remains a 
scientific mystery, its true nature hidden somewhere outside man's 
conceptual capacity. 

Seismological work also was stimulated by the unusual opportuni- 
ties to place seismograph recorders in neglected parts of the world, 
particularly the polar regions. In the Arctic and sub-Arctic many 
gaps in coverage were filled, mostly by Soviet scientists. Antarctica, 
an aseismic continent except for one or two minor shocks a year, was 
nevertheless notable for its valuable readings on a broad range of 
far-southern quakes and for its clues to the seismicity of a vast region. 
Numerous readings of earth waves from Japanese shocks, agitating 
the seismographs after traveling the longest all-oceanic wave paths 
on record, helped in the determination of travel velocities through 
oceanic crustal formations. 

A specialized application of seismology, in which reflected waves 
from small explosions on the surface are used to discover subsurface 
structure, disclosed the ice depths in Antarctica and Greenland, and 
indicated the continental structure of Antarctica. Similar explora- 
tion of the Andean massifs in South America showed that the under- 
lying crust is unexpectedly thin, contrary to the normal expectation 
of a deep root structure. 

Seismologists began the intensive development of seismographs 
sensitive to ground waves of ultralong period — waves which have 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

already demonstrated unique value in the detection of distant earth- 
quakes and subterranean explosions. 

CONCLUSION 

Sheer masses of data were collected in the IGY. The United States 
alone has brought out no less than 17 tons of records just from 
its Antarctic stations. The total for the world is almost beyond 
comprehension. Now, to exploit such a fund of new information, 
we have comprehensive programs for its international exchange and 
for its orderly keeping in world data centers. There are new trans- 
lating services, directed especially toward the large mass of Soviet- 
bloc science writings. General geophysics information in America 
is available in permanent journals such as Transactions of the 
American Geophysical Union, Journal of Geophysical Research, and 
lUGG Chronicle, and the temporary IGY journals. Annals of the 
IGY and IGY Bulletin. Complete technical data are available in 
the world centers. 

The store of knowledge already amassed is great. It includes the 
story of Antarctica's striking geological history shown through the 
evidence of petrified trees and coalbeds. We have learned that the 
oceans may become a primary food source, "farmed" by man, and that 
their dark reaches may deliver up vast new riches for his benefit; 
that knowledge of solar processes may revolutionize our approach 
to energy problems ; that space is far from a vacuum, but that despite 
its logistics problems and radiation hazards we will complete its con- 
quest. The list could be well nigh endless. And we have yet far to 
go with the digestion of IGY data. 

To keep us from straying into scientific fantasy, we have a legacy 
of planning bodies at national and international levels — committees 
for oceanographic and polar research, and our Space Science Board — 
which will point out opportunities for the fullest exploitation of the 
possibilities. 

The scientific fruits we have seen to be great. Yet it may be hard 
to say whether less tangible values may not be even greater. We have 
the lesson that science is not parochial — that we must deal broadly 
with interdisciplinary problems. We know now that men of all races 
Diid political faiths can work together. The press of the world has 
produced a radical change in public attitudes (with no little help, to 
be sure, from the Kussian sputniks). There is a burgeoning public 
awareness of the importance of science and of scientists. The scientist 
is losing his reputation for wearing long hair and going absent- 
mindedly through life. And we may now, for once and all, have 
laid the ghost of that stupid old question whether research and pure 
science are worth their own support. 



Astronomy From Artificial Satellites ^ 



By Leo Goldberg 

Director, The Observatory of the University of Michigan 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 



[With 4 plates] 



The elimination of the earth's atmosphere as a barrier to observa- 
tion has been dreamed of by generations of astronomers who have at- 
tempted to survey the universe from the bottom of a dirty and turbu- 
lent ocean of air. Considerable improvement is effected when 
observatories are placed on high mountain tops, far above fogs and 
low-lying clouds. At heights of 1 to 2 miles above sea level, where 
such observatories are located, the air is very pure, but no matter how 
pure, it is still air and therefore subversive of the goals of astronomy. 
It is only by placing telescopes completely above the earth's atmos- 
phere that the astronomer can obtain a clear and miobstructecl view 
of the heavens. It now seems certain that such an extraterrestrial 
observatory will soon be an accomplished fact, thanks to the achieve- 
ment of artificial satellites, the most exciting advance in observing 
technique since the invention of the telescope. 

There are three major reasons why the atmosphere is a hindrance 
to astronomical research. First, even the very tiny amount that is 
present above a height of several miles is completely opaque to all 
ultraviolet radiation of wavelength shorter than about 2,900 A., and 
to much of the infrared radiation of longer wavelength. Second, the 
air is never completely steady even above high mountains. Local 
fluctuations in temperature induce violent currents of boiling air 
which distort the images of celestial bodies. The turbulence of the air 
has been responsible for the sharp difference of opinion concerning 
the nature of small details on the surface of the sun and for 
heated arguments as to the reality of the canals on Mars. Third, the 
atoms and molecules in the atmosphere scatter sunlight by day, and 
also emit radiation, which is visible by night. The bright daylight 
sky obliterates the faint light from the solar corona, and the airglow 
at night masks the radiation from the background of faint stars and 



1 The 25th annual James Arthur lecture on the sun, given under the auspices of the 
Smithsonian Institution, Oct. 23, 1958. 

285 



286 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



galaxies, the observation of which is so important for the understand- 
ing of the structure of the galaxy and of the universe beyond. 

The turbulence of the atmosphere is not a serious factor at heights 
greater than about 50,000 or 60,000 feet. Hence, its disadvantages 
can be overcome by observations from high-altitude balloons, as has 
been beautifully demonstrated recently by A. Dollfus in France and 
by M. Schwarzschild in the United States. But the airglow and the 
absorption of ultraviolet radiation occur at very much higher altitudes 
which can only be traversed by rockets. 




M 





IQ' 



1 10 10? 10' 



10* ANGSTROMS 
















1 10 10^ 


10' 


lO'* 


MICRONS 














1 


10 10^ 


10' 


10^ 


10* 


CENTIMETERS 



Figure 1. — Regions of the radiation spectrum blacked out by tlie eartli's atmosphere 
(cross-hatched areas). Wavelengths are shown in angstroms, microns, and centimeters. 

The problem posed by the absorption of radiation in the atmosphere 
is illustrated in figure 1. The astronomer investigates the physical 
nature of objects in the universe by analyzing the electromagnetic 
radiations which they emit. The sun, the stars, and the nebulae are 
aggregations of gas in which the temperatures range from a few 
thousand to a few millions of degrees. Gases at such high tempera- 
ture will emit radiation of all wavelengths, which, for X-rays, are 
as short as a few billionths of a centimeter, or for radio waves, as 
long as tens and hundreds of meters. With the aid of optical and 
radio spectroscopes, the astronomer sorts out the radiations of differ- 
ent wavelengths and arranges them in a spectrum in order of increas- 
ing wavelength. The measurement of intensity at each wavelength 
provides the basic observational data which are required for the 
physical investigation of the sun and the stars. Ordinarily, the 
wavelengths with which we are concerned are so small that special 
units of length must be introduced. For example, the wavelength 
of visible and ultraviolet radiation is usually given in angstrom units, 
1 angstrom being equal to 1 hundred-millionth of a centimeter, 
whereas for infrared radiation, the micron, or 1 ten-thousandth of 
a centimeter, is usually employed as a unit of wavelength. Thus, 
X-rays are included in the range from about one-tenth to 100 A., 
ultraviolet radiation from 100 to 4,000 A., visible radiation from 
4,000 to 8,000 A., infrared from 1 micron to 1 millimeter, and radio 
waves from 1 millimeter on up to hundreds of meters. 

The cross-hatched areas denote those regions of the spectrum to 
Avhich the earth's atmosphere is completely opaque from the ground. 



ASTRONOMY AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 287 

No radiation of wavelengths shorter than about 2,900 A. ever reaches 
the surface of the earth, either at sea level or at the tops of high moun- 
tains. The absorption of ultraviolet radiation and X-rays is caused 
by atoms and molecules of nitrogen and oxygen and by molecules of 
ozone which are created by the action of sunlight on oxygen molecules. 
At infrared wavelengths, the atmosphere is partially transparent in 
a number of so-called wavelength "windows" from about 1 to 24 
microns. A small amount of radiation also leaks through at 1 or 2 
millimeters. At much longer wavelengths, the atmosphere again 
becomes transparent to radio waves from a few millimeters to about 
30 meters long, although observations have occasionally been made at 
wavelengths of about 100 meters through transient "holes" in the 
earth's ionosphere. The infrared radiation and the shortest radio 
waves are blocked by molecules of water and carbon dioxide, whereas 
the longest radio waves are reflected back into space by the charged 
upper layers of the atmosphere, the ionosphere. The diagram illus- 
trates quite clearly how severe have been the handicaps under which 
astronomers have been working, especially since the radio window 
has been used effectively only during the past 15 years. 

From knowledge of the composition of the earth's atmosphere and 
from laboratory experiments on the absorbing power of gases, it is 
possible to calculate with reasonable precision the altitudes at which 
the atmosphere becomes transparent to radiation of various wave- 
lengths. The results of one such calculation are shown in figure 2. 
The curve shown there gives the altitude at which the atmosphere 
becomes 50 percent transparent for each wavelength of the ultra- 
violet spectrum. For wavelengths greater than about 2,200 A., the 
radiation is absorbed by ozone concentrated mainly in a layer between 
heights of about 10 to 40 kilometers. From 2,200 A. to 900 A. the 
absorption is caused by oxygen and nitrogen molecules, primarily 
the former. The reason for the plateau in the curve between 1,400 A. 
and 1,800 A. is that, at about 100 kilometers or a little higher, the 
oxygen molecules have broken apart into their constituent atoms and 
lience no longer can absorb radiation at these wavelengths. The 
dip in the curve at 1,200 A. is a fortunate circumstance, since it coin- 
cides almost exactly with the position of the Lyman-a line of hydro- 
gen, which is strongly emitted by the sun and probably also by most 
other stars. At altitudes greater tlian 100 kilometers, radiation is 
predominantly absorbed by atoms of oxygen and nitrogen which pre- 
sent a solid wall for wavelengths between 200 and 900 A. At the 
very shortest wavelengths. X-rays are also screened by atomic oxy- 
gen and nitrogen, although they penetrate to relatively low altitudes. 
The calculations suggest that observations from a height of about 
50 kilometers would extend the solar spectrum to 2,200 A.; at 100 
kilometers altitude, the ultraviolet limit would be about 1,100 A.; 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 




1400 1600 leOO 2000 2200 2400 2600 2900 3000 3200 3400 



Figure 2. — Transparency of the earth's atmosphere to ultraviolet radiation. The 
curve gives the altitude in kilometers at which the intensity of extraterrestrial radi- 
ation is reduced by a factor of 2 at each wavelength. 

and with increasing altitude, the short X-rays would begin to come 
into view. However, the radiation in the 300 to 1,000 A. band would 
only be detectable at very great altitudes on the order of about 
200 kilometers. 

The expectations have largely been confirmed by developments of 
the past 10 or 12 years, thanks to the introduction of high-altitude 
rockets as a tool for astronomy. Shortly after the close of World 
War II, the United States initiated a program of scientific experi- 
mentation with a substantial number of V-2 rockets at the White 
Sands Proving Grounds. From the first, the observation of solar 
ultraviolet radiation received very high priority, together with cos- 
mic-ray experiments and those concerned with the measurement of 
pressures and temperatures in the high atmosphere. The first 
notable success was achieved by a group of scientists at the Naval 
Research Laboratory, headed by R. N. Tousey, who were successful 
in photographing the ultraviolet solar spectrum at a series of alti- 
tudes up to 55 kilometers. The flight was made on October 10, 1946, 
and the results obtained are shown in plate 1, This series of pho- 
tographs represents one of the great achievements in the history of 
observational astronomy, comparable in importance with the first 
map of the solar spectrum by Fraunhofer in 1814, with the invention 
of the spectroheliograph by Hale in 1891, and the coronagraph by 



ASTRONOMT AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 289 

Lyot in 1930. The series of spectra show that the ozone layer begins 
to be penetrated at a height of 8 kilometers, that the penetration is 
accelerated at higher altitudes, and that it is complete at 55 kilome- 
ters. Many subsequent flights to heights greater than 200 kilometers 
by the NRL group and by Reuse and his collaborators at the Uni- 
versity of Colorado have further lengthened the solar spectrum by 
photography to below 100 A. The emission of X-rays from the sun 
has also been studied, chiefly by Friedman and his associates, also 
at the Naval Research Laboratory, and their observations have been 
an important feature of the program of the IGY. After depletion 
of the supply of German V-2 rockets, the program has been con- 
tinued with Viking and Aerobee rockets of U.S. manufacture, which 
have been launched both from the ground and from balloons in a 
combination called the Rockoon. 

In spite of the very many great achievements which have been ac- 
complished with rockets, the technique suffers from serious limitations, 
the most important of which is the very short space of time — a few 
minutes at the most — during which the rocket is at the top of its 
trajectory and observations are possible. It has been clear for some 
time that these limitations could be removed if it were possible to 
place a large rocket into a stable orbit high above the earth — in other 
words, to transform the rocket into an artificial satellite of the earth. 
In this way, the age-old dream could be realized of a laboratory or 
observatory in space from which the astronomer would have an un- 
obstructed view of the universe. The first indication that tliis dream 
might become a reality was given by the spectacular advances in 
rocketrj'' in Germany during World War II. As early as 1946, feasi- 
bility studies in this country had demonstrated the practicability of 
artificial satellites with then-existing rocket technology, altliough the 
cost would have been comparable to that of the Manhattan Project 
for the development of the atomic bomb. However, these studies were 
not known to astronomers generally, and even when, in 1955, both 
the United States and the Soviet Union announced their plans to 
launch artificial satellites as activities of the IGY, the small sizes of 
the satellites that were announced made it appear that the astronomi- 
cal applications would be extremely limited and highly specialized 
for many years to come. 

The news that the Soviet Union had succeeded, on October 4, 1957, 
in launching an earth satellite with an instrument payload of 184 
pounds came as a surprise to most astronomers, who had no knowledge 
that such large payloads were feasible. The first shock of surprise 
was soon compounded when the much heavier second and third sput- 
niks were placed in orbit. 

However, the shock has now worn off and has been replaced by 
eager anticipation of the consequences for astronomy of artificial 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

satellites tliat can carry several thousand pounds of scientific equip- 
ment into orbits hundreds of miles above the surface of the earth. 
It now appears certain that as a result of the developments in rocket 
technology, astronomy has entered a new era which promises to be 
the most exciting in its history. As Otto Struve so aptly put it in a 
message to the Tenth General Assembly of the International Astro- 
nomical Union recently held in Moscow : "Because of this event [the 
successful launching of the first sputnik] the year 1957 will be re- 
membered in the history of astronomical exploration as the year 1492 
is remembered in the history of geographical exploration." 

The way is now open for attack on some of the most fundamental 
problems of astrophysics. Furthermore, the possibility of creating 
also artificial planets and artificial satellites of planets other than the 
earth has very important implications for celestial mechanics. Time 
does not permit the listing of the dozens of fresh and exciting satellite 
experiments that can be visualized by any competent astronomer. In- 
stead, since the Arthur Lectures are devoted to the sun, I shall confine 
my attention to this, the most important star in the sky. 

Most astronomers would agree that at present the sun should have 
the highest priority for investigation from satellites. The sun is 
such an intense source of radiation that instrumental problems are 
minimized. Further, the influence of the sun upon the earth makes 
its investigation of very great interest to geophysicists and meteor- 
ologists as well as to astronomers. Finally, the sun has been so 
thoroughly observed from the ground for several centuries that the 
goals of satellite research are already very clearly defined. 

Radiation from the sun takes the form of both photons and parti- 
cles. From the standpoint of photon radiation, the most important 
beginning project to be undertaken is the exploration of the complete 
X-ray and ultraviolet solar spectrum. The spectrum has been photo- 
graphed from a rocket by Reuse to an ultraviolet limit of about 80 A., 
from an altitude of over 200 kilometers. The spectrum down to 300 
A. also has been recorded by photoelectric scanning by J. Hintereg- 
ger of the Air Force Cambridge Research Center. An exceptionally 
beautiful spectrogram, obtained by the NRL on March 13, 1959, and 
covering the region from 500 to 1,800 A., is shown in plate 2. It 
can be seen that the continuous spectrum crossed by dark lines, 
which is characteristic of the solar radiation at longer wavelengths, 
terminates at about 1,600 A., and that thereafter the spectrum consists 
entirely of bright emission lines. By far the brightest line in this 
region is Lyman-a of neutral hydrogen at 1,216 A., but other lines 
arising from neutral and ionized atoms of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, 
helium, iron, and silicon are also present. Especially noteworthy 
are the bright lines of neutral helium at 584 A., and of nine-times 



ASTRONOMY AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 291 

ionized magnesium at 625 A. Now the continuous spectrum with its 
dark lines is radiated by the visible surface of the sun, the so-called 
photosphere^ where the temperature is in the neighborhood of 6,000°. 
As predicted by the well-known laws of black-body radiation, gases 
at such a relatively low temperature give off very little ultraviolet 
radiation, and hence the continuous spectrum ceases to be conspicu- 
ous at 1,600 A. However, the layers above the photosphere are very 
much hotter. At a height of about 50,000 kilometers above the photo- 
sphere, in the region of the lower corona, the temperature has already 
risen to about a million degrees. Between the photosphere and the 
corona lies the chromosphere, the transition region in which tlie 
temperature rises precipitously from 6,000° to a million degrees. 
Through the chromosphere are propagated the hydromagnetic waves 
that originate in the layers below and must supply the energy to 
maintain the corona at its very high temperature. The mechanism 
by which the energy is transferred is not well understood and forms 
one of the most pressing problems of solar physics. The solution of 
this problem will come from the study of the spectrum of the chromo- 
sphere, particularly the ultraviolet spectrum. The significance of the 
spectrum shown in the plate is that the bright emission lines (with 
the exception of the magnesium line at 625 A., which probably is 
radiated by the hot corona) do, in fact, originate in the chromosphere. 
Furthermore, since the temperature is increasing very steeply with 
height in the chromosphere, lines of high excitation will come from 
the higher levels. Thus, by exploration of the ultraviolet emission 
spectrum of the sun the physical state of the chromosphere can be 
probed through its entire thickuess. 

Friedman and his collaborators at the Naval Research Laboratory 
have also, by means of photon counters, recorded the emission of 
X-rays in the band from about 5 to 150 A. Most of the emission in 
this region of the spectrum comes from the highly stripped atoms 
that prevail at the million-degree temperatures found in the corona. 
Because the X-ray emission from the sun is expected to be highly 
variable and extremely sensitive to solar activity (see below) its 
systematic observation from satellites will be of the greatest 
importance. 

One of the most important activities of the International Geo- 
physical Year has been the continuous monitoring of the sun from 
a network of stations all around the earth. The purpose of this 
patrol has been to obtain a complete record of solar activity, or tran- 
sient disturbances in the solar atmosphere, because of the effect of 
such solar activity upon the earth. The most common of these tran- 
sient disturbances are the sunspots, which occur in the photosphere 
and may therefore be seen visually in the telescope or photographed 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

in white light. The most spectacular disturbances, however, occur 
higher up in the chromosphere and are normally visible only in the 
monochromatic radiations emitted by atoms of ionized calcium and 
hydrogen. These disturbances comprise what is referred to as "solar 
activity," or "solar phenomena." Solar phenomena are exceedingly 
diversified and complex, and it is difficult even to give an organ- 
ized account of them. The more striking among them include (a) 
the sunspots; (h) the so-called plages, which are relatively stable 
formations that usually, but not always, occur near sunspots and 
appear perhaps 50 to 100 percent brighter than their surroundings ; 
(c) the solar flares, the most catastrophic of all events on the sun, 
which always break out in plage regions; (d) the prominences, great 
clouds of gas which jut out beyond the limb of the sun and are 
frequently in violent turbulent motion; and (e) the dark flocculi 
and filaments, which are prominences seen in projection against the 
solar disk. Plate 3 is a photogi-aph of the sun in the monochromatic 
red line of hydrogen, Ha, made with a narrow-band filter, and there- 
fore called a flUroheliogram. It shows several types of solar activity, 
including plages, filaments, and three flares. 

Except for some types of prominences, solar activity is generally 
confined to sunspot regions and indeed the level of activity roughly 
parallels the sunspot cycle. The lifetimes of solar phenomena are 
highly variable. Some types of activity, e.g., the surge prominences 
ejected at the limb, and the high-speed dark flocculi that accom- 
pany flares, are exceedingly ephemeral, and last but a few minutes. 
Great flares may persist for several hours, some types of prominences 
for weeks, and plages and sunspots for months. 

The flare phenomenon is probably the most spectacular of all solar 
events, because of its complexity, its abrupt commencement, its rela- 
tionship to other solar phenomena, and its often immediate and dra- 
matic impact upon the earth. It is characterized by a sudden 
increase in the radiation intensity from relatively small areas up to 
two or three-tenths of a percent of the total area of the solar disk. 
The enhanced radiation is almost always in the form of bright lines, 
and only rarely does the intensity of the continuous spectrum increase. 
After the initial brightening, the excess radiation intensity dies out 
slowly in times of from one-half to 3 or 4 hours. 

The flare is not an isolated plienomenon on the sun in the sense 
that it often interacts with and is accompanied by other phenomena. 

Thus, dark filaments in the vicinity of flares previously quiescent 
may suddenly become active. High-speed gas clouds are sometimes 
ejected from flares at several hundred kilometers per second. Bright 
flares are almost always accompanied by great bursts of radio noise, 
particularly in the low-frequency band 20-600 megacycles (see fig. 
3). The absolute intensity of these radio bursts at the lowest fre- 



ASTRONOMY AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 293 

quencies is sometimes as high as that which would be radiated by 
a black body at a temperature in excess of 10^^ degrees. Many flares 
observed in recent years have also given rise to rather extraordinary 
increases in the intensity of cosmic rays from the sun while even 
rather modest flares can produce sharp bursts of gamma radiation, 
as have been observed by Winckler and his associates at the Uni- 
versity of Minnesota. Solar flares are clearly tremendously energetic 
phenomena and hence the explanation of their origin and physical 
nature is one of the fundamental problems of solar physics. 







1700 






1730 


1800 


LXX 


3I/U 




•/ 


\ 


Ha 
LIGHT CURVE 


JUNE 22, 1949 

IMP. 2 
09N 55E 




.4 


- 


i 


• 

• • 


\2e00Mc 






.2 




i\ 






i\ 







Figure 3. — Comparison of Ha flare light curve (McMath-HuIbert Observatory) and 
concomitant 2800 Mc/s and 200 Mc/s solar radiation. The two radio-frequency rec- 
ords were recorded at N.R.C. (Ottawa) and Cornell University, respectively. 

Solar activity initiates various events on the earth, chiefly in the 
upper atmosphere, and hence its study has very important practical 
consequences for the human race. These events fall into two cate- 
gories: (1) sudden ionospheric disturbances (SID's), which begin 
almost immediately upon the onset of a flare and must therefore be 
caused by radiation from the flare; and (2) geomagnetic storms and 
displays of northern lights which start about 1 day later and hence 
must be triggered oif by high-speed particles. 

Sudden ionospheric disturbances are caused by increases in the 
degree of ionization of the upper atmosphei'e in the height range 
50-100 kilometers, as a consequence of increased ultraviolet emission 
from the regions of solar flares. The SID's are manifested in a 
variety of ways, the most dramatic of which is the sudden fadeout 
of shortwave radio communications on the earth, in the band 1.5-30 
megacycles. An example of such a fadeout in the 5-megacycl6 signal 
from station "WWV, as received at Cornell University, is shown in 
figure 4, in relation to the Ha light curve of a flare. The lower fre- 
quencies are most strongly afi^ected, although at much lower frequen- 
cies (about 50 kc.) the transmission is actually improved. The 
f adeouts may last for a few minutes or for as long as 8 hours, 
and hence can cause serious dislocation to an important phase of 
everyday life. The fadeouts can frequently but not always be pre- 
dicted in advance by observation of the sun in the Ha line of hydrogen. 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



Log I/j 



.5 - 



.«9 



Ol — I 1 1 1 L 



r 






Ha Light Curve 
Flare N 06 W 10 



I I I I ! 




J I \ 1__L 



Ic 

1.2 



1.0 



.8 



- .6 



14^30^ 



15^^00"^ 



I5"30"» 



I I J ! L 

t6"00'" 



U.T. 



Figure 4. — Comparison of Ha flare light curve (McMath-Hulbert Observatory) and 
concomitant short-wave fade, 5 MC, WWV (Cornell), Sept. 15, 1951. 

The reason that the predictions are not always accurate is that the 
visible radiation from the sun does not by itself produce terrestrial 
events, v^diich are caused by the increased flux of ultraviolet radiation 
and particles that may accompany the increases in visible light. Un- 
fortunately, the mechanism of the emission of radiation by solar flares 
is very poorly understood and we cannot at present predict their 
ultraviolet radiations from observation of the visible light. To com- 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Goldberg 



Plate l 




ID 



O 

a: 
cn 

z 

< 



o 



Ph 



CJ 



GO 



lO 



5J- 






(iAi>i) 3aniiiiv 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Goldberg 








Plate 2 






-cni S 


■■■ 


r-f 


'H 


ro 




,NI o 


^^^R 


1 


W^M 


O 

o 




-Siffi 


^^^^K 


I 


aJ^H 




'H(Lya) 


^^^H 


-|^B 






-N2 


^^^^K' 


'-^^H 




^^^B 1 *^^^l 


=-sn 


^^^B 


;^I-Hel 






o 


^^B 


*^B-0Ez: 


O 




-^01 


^^^H 


^^■-MgX 


o 




^ SiH 

-on 


^B 


fl 








-~vl 


^^^B 


.^^1 








o 


^^^^^^^B 


'^^^^B 


—— 






o 


^^^^^^^^B 


w^^^^H 


-^ 

O" 






=>si]2: 


^^^B 


I^H 


o 








^H 


;^H 








oo 
o 
o 


^■'' 


fl-on 









^^^^^B 


^^^H 


en 








^^^^^^^^^R 


'J^^^^^^^l 


CD 
O 


^^^K 
^^^^K 




^sin 

= 012 
-CI ^ 


■ 


^■- on,in 


O^ 






o 
o 


^^H 




<o 
o 


^B 




-Hel 


■ 


.'^9 -Nm 


o 
o 






Fen, 8^ 

Ain 


H 


m^^ 






^1 




^K 


fl-Nn 






^H 


o 


^^^^^^Kt. 


^^^H 







^^M 


o 


^^^^^^^^^^^L. 


^^^^^^H 


CD 




^^M 




^^^^^^^^^^V'T 


^^^^^^H 


o 

o 




■ 


=>SiI 


^^K> 


,«| 






^^He 


. .>^^| 



Ultraviolet spectrum of the sun. Photographed on March 13, 1959, from a Naval 
Research Laboratory Aerobee rocket, which rose to a height of nearly 200 kilometers. 
Experiment designed by J. D. Purcell, D. M. Packer, W. D. Hunter, and Richard 
Tousey. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Goldberg 



Plate 3 




Ha filtroheliogram showing filaments, plages, and three flares, 1959, June 18'*11''44'" U. T. 
Flare, importance 3, N17 W13, near maximum; importance 2, N06 E60, past maximum; 
importance 1, N19 E47, near maximum. (North is at the top, east is at the left.) McMath- 
Hulbert Observatory of the University of Michigan. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Goldberg 



Plate 4 




Solar photograph in the ultraviolet radiation of Lynian-a of hydrogen. Obtained from a 
Naval Research Laboratory rocket nearly 200 kilometers high on March 13, 1959. 



ASTRONOMY AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 295 

prehend the physical nature of flares and to understand the causes of 
disturbances to the earth's atmosphere, it is necessaiy to observe 
directly the ultraviolet radiation that is now screened from observa- 
tion on the ground by the earth's atmosphere. The ultraviolet radia- 
tion responsible for ionospheric disturbances has, as a result of rocket 
investigations, been narrowed to a choice between the so-called Lyman- 
a line of hydrogen, which falls at 1216 A., and soft X-rays of wave- 
length between 5 and 10 A., although the most recent evidence favors 
the X-rays. 

To resolve the question as to whether the Lyman-a radiation is 
directly responsible for sudden ionospheric disturbances, it would 
be sufficient to monitor continuously the total flux of the radiation 
from the whole solar disk that strikes the top of the earth's at- 
mosphere. Observations of this type have been made during short- 
time intei-vals from rockets, but continuous surveillance for extended 
periods from satellites is an absolute necessity. However, such ob- 
servations can yield little information concerning the origin and basic 
physics of the flare plienomenon and its interactions with other related 
solar activity. The integrated flux observations are also not suitable 
as a basis for the refined prediction of sudden ionospheric disturb- 
ances. For these broader purposes we require monochromatic photo- 
graphs of the sun in the radiation of Lyman-a, similar to and con- 
cun-ent with those now being obtahied in the red Ha line from the 
ground. The first detailed photograph of this type was obtained by 
Tousey and associates at the Naval Research Laboratoiy from an 
Aerobee rocket on March 13, 1959 (see pi. 4) . 

Eventually, simultaneous photographs should also be obtained in 
the ultraviolet lines of other elements in addition to Lyman-a of neu- 
tral hydrogen. The most significant lines for this purpose would 
be those of Pie I at 584 A. and of He II at 304 A. An interesting 
byproduct of this program would be the light it would cast upon 
the detailed structure of the chromosphere, a subject about which 
there is considerable controversy at present. Thus, tliere is much 
evidence that the chromosphere is not homogeneous and that it con- 
sists of heterogeneous hot and cold columns with widely differing 
temperatures ranging from perhaps 5,000° to 50,000°. The high- 
excitation helium lines seem to be produced in the hot regions, 
whereas the radiation in low excitation lines defines the cool regions. 
Comparison of monochromatic photographs made in the different 
lines might reveal the detailed character of the temperature 
fluctuations. 

A most valuable byproduct of the sohir observations would be the 
detailed information they could provide on the earth's upper atmos- 
phere. About 12 years ago, and even prior to the first successful 

536608—60 20 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

rocket photograph of the ultraviolet solar spectrum, Dr. Lyman 
Spitzer pointed out that, as seen from a satellite, the sun rises and 
sets at frequent intervals. At these times, the sun's rays would have 
to traverse the upper atmosphere at different heights before reaching 
the satellite and would be partially absorbed. Measurement of the 
changes in the intensify of the spectrum with time would provide 
a very sensitive determination of the densities of the different types 
of atoms in the earth's upper atmosphere. It is now known that the 
ultraviolet spectrum of the sun contains emission lines of oxygen, 
nitrogen, and hydrogen, and that these lines are absorbed by the 
same kinds of atoms in the earth's atmosphere. Now the total den- 
sity of the upper atmosphere can be derived from the clianges in the 
orbit of a satellite caused by frictional drag. If the individual par- 
ticle densities are also known from spectroscopic measurements, it 
would be possible to calculate the change of temperature with height 
at great altitudes and so to answer the question as to the extent of the 
thermosphere. This is the region above the mesopause in which the 
temperature increases with lieight from about 200° Kelvin at 100 
kilometers to about 1,100° Kelvin at 300 kilometers. It is not known 
whether, above 300 kilometers, the atmosphere becomes isothermal, 
or whether, as Chapman suggests, the temperature continues to rise 
until the earth's atmosphere merges with the very hot gas of the 
solar corona at a distance of several earth radii. The possible de- 
tection of hj^drogen and tlie measurement of its density at great alti- 
tudes would be of particular interest. This could be accomplished 
by monitoring the intensity of the solar Lyman-a line. 

The arrival of solar-ejected particles, chiefly protons and electrons, 
at tlie earth is evidenced by their trapping in the Van Allen radia- 
tion belts, by the occurrence of magnetic storms and auroral displays, 
and by the observation of enhanced cosmic-ray intensity following 
solar flares. During 1959, physicists at the University of Minnesota, 
led by Ney and Winckler, found, by measurements from balloons, 
that the earth is being bombarded by bursts of low-energy 
cosmic rays with a frequency and intensity far greater than had been 
known or expected. The solar origin of these bursts seems un- 
disputed. At the same time, evidence for the ejection of particles 
from the sun is best adduced from the observation of bursts of radio 
noise at very low frequencies. J. P. Wild in Australia has shown 
that many great solar flares are accompanied by bursts of radio emis- 
sion which appear first at the higher frequencies, greater than about 
200 megacycles, and then drift progressively toward the lower fre- 
quencies. Wild has interpreted these bursts as arising from corpuscu- 
lar streams ejected from the region of solar flares at very high speeds 
up to 100,000 kilometers per second. The high frequencies come from 



ASTRONOMY AND ARTIFICIAL SATELLITES — GOLDBERG 297 

low levels in the atmosphere and the lower frequencies from the higher 
levels as the stream of charged particles moves outward. However, 
some radio bursts are associated with geomagnetic disturbances while 
others are not, which suggests that some of the streams do not have 
enough energy to penetrate the solar atmosphere. To determine 
which streams do, in fact, escape from the sun, it is necessary to make 
observations at very low^ frequencies down to 1 megacycle or less. 
Unfortunately, radiation at these frequencies cannot penetrate the 
earth's atmosphere because it is reflected back into space by the iono- 
sphere. Hence, it would be extremely important, as proposed by 
F. T. Haddock, to make observations over the frequency band from 
1 megacycle to 30 megacycles from above the atmosphere. The obser- 
vation of these radiofrequencies might also make possible, as an 
interesting byproduct, the measurement of the decrease of electron 
density in the column of interplanetary space between the sun and 
the earth. 

During the period that has elapsed since this lecture was given the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration has announced plans 
for the development of orbiting astronomical observatories in co- 
operation with six observatory teams. The plans include provision 
for both solar and stellar orbiting telescopes. Design studies prelimi- 
nary to the construction of apparatus for the solar observations out- 
lined above are in progress at the University of Michigan, while other 
plans are being generated at Princeton University, at the Universities 
of Rochester and Wisconsin, at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob- 
servatory, and at the Kitt Peak National Observatory. These efforts 
are in addition to the ongoing programs of extraterrestrial observa- 
tion at the Naval Research Laboratory and at the University of 
Colorado. 

It is expected that instrum.ental payloads of about 2,500 pounds 
will be sent into orbit 500 miles above the earth. Much in the way of 
laboratory experimentation will be required to insure that the satel- 
lite and instrumentation will withstand the severe accelerations and 
vibrations during the launching operation, and also to make sure that 
the systems envisaged for the stabilization and pointing control sys- 
tem and for the recording, storage, and transmission of the data will 
indeed function correctly. However, none of the foreseeable prob- 
lems appears to be insurmountable engineering-wise, and there can 
be little doubt that a bright future awaits astronomers as they enter 
this most exciting period in history. 



Solar Radio Astronomy^ 



By Alan Maxwell 

Radio Astronomy Station of Harvard College Observatory 
Fort Davis, Tex. 



[With 2 plates] 



The beginnings of radio astronomy are to be found in the work of 
James Clerk Maxwell, Faraday, and Hertz. A few years after 
Hertz's pioneer work on radio waves, astronomers were speculating 
whether the solar corona could be the source of electromagnetic dis- 
turbances and emit radio waves. About 1900 Sir Oliver Lodge at- 
tempted to observe such waves, but this attempt was doomed to failure 
by the inadequacy of the available radio techniques. Subsequently, 
the idea of searching for extraterrestrial radio emissions was aban- 
doned, and for many years astronomers showed no further interest 
in the matter. 

In 1932, Jansky, investigating atmospherics at a wavelength of 15 
meters, found that the noise which his antenna system picked up 
showed a variation whose periodicity was not exactly 24 hours, but 
was 23 hours 56 minutes, corresponding to the period of the earth's 
rotation relative to the stars. Jansky concluded that this radio noise 
came from the Milky Way, and suggested that the radio waves were 
being generated either in the stars or in interstellar space. This work 
should have been of peculiar interest to astronomers, but it received 
little attention. It was followed up by one or two people, notably 
by Reber, but it was not until the years immediately following the 
Second World War that the tremendous astronomical significance of 
this early discovery w- as realized. 

In 1948, Bolton and Stanley, in Australia, aimounced that they had 
discovered an intense source of radio emission whose angular diameter 
in the sky was less than 8 minutes of arc, and whose position lay in 
the constellation of Cygnus. Shortly afterward, Ryle and Smith at 
Cambridge, England, discovered a second, even more intense, radio 



* The 26th annual James Arthur lecture on the sun, given under the auspices of the 
Smithsonian Institution on Oct. 15, 1959. 

299 



300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

source in the constellation of Cassiopeia. Since these pioneer dis- 
coveries, many radio sources have been cataloged. A number of 
these coincide in position with outstanding objects in the sky : some 
with supernovae, others with interacting galaxies, nebulous conden- 
sations, and so on. It is, however, one of the outstanding enigmas of 
radio astronomy that the great proportion of these radio sources defy 
optical identification. This has led to a great deal of speculation, 
some of it premature, concerning the nature of the radio sources, not 
to mention the nature of the universe in which we live. It is clear, 
however, that the radio astronomer's universe bears a marked simi- 
larity to the optical astronomer's universe. 

The radiations from outer space known as "light" cover a very small 
section of the electromagnetic spectrum — ^one octave, to be precise. 
By contrast, the radio waves reaching the earth from outer space 
cover approximately 12 octaves of the spectrum. For receiving equip- 
ment on the earth, the boundary to observations at short wavelengths 
is set at 0.5 cm. by the absorption effects of oxygen and water vapor 
in the terrestrial atmosphere. At long wavelengths, greater than 
about 30 m., the radio waves are reflected back into outer space by the 
terrestrial ionosphere. The incoming radio signals do not have the 
properties of speech or music : they have the mathematical form and 
audible characteristics of random noise. 

The basic instruments of radio astronomy comprise a directive an- 
tenna, which is often a paraboloid of large aperture, and a sensitive 
radio receiver provided with means for accurate calibration. In 
radio telescopes of paraboloidal design, the focus is occupied not by a 
photographic plate, as in optical astronomy, but by a simple primary 
antenna system, which passes the radio signals along to a radio re- 
ceiver. Permanent records are generally obtained with pen re- 
corders, or, in some cases, by photographing cathode ray tubes. 

One of the great difficulties confronting radio astronomers is that 
the radio wavelengths, which are of the order of a million times 
longer than those of light, make the resolving power of radio tele- 
scopes greatly inferior to that of optical telescopes. The 250-foot 
paraboloid at the Jodrell Bank Experimental Station, in England, 
at its shortest operating wavelength has a resolution which is not so 
good as that of the human eye. To some extent, it has been possible 
to develop special antennas for obtaining high directional discrimina- 
tion. Most of these antennas make use of interference techniques, and 
are subject to confusion, if the brightness pattern of the part of the 
sky under examination is complex. In their efforts to achieve im- 
proved resolution, radio astronomers have contributed greatly to the 
development of antennas. One particularly interesting example is 
a cruciform array developed by Mills, and another is an elaborate 
periodic array developed by Christiansen. 



SOLAR RADIO ASTRONOMY — MAXWELL 301 

BACKGROUND RADIATION FROM THE SUN 

The radio emissions from the sim, the only star from which radio 
waves have as yet been detected, consist of a background thermal 
emission from the solar atmosphere, and transitory disturbances, 
sometimes of great intensity, which originate in localized active 
areas. The first successful observations of the background radiation 
were carried out in 1942 by Southworth, who worked in the United 
States w4th equipment operating at wavelengths between 3 and 10 
cm. Since that time a considerable amount of effort and ingenuity 
has been devoted to determining the parameters of the background 
radiation, wliich gives us direct information about the distribution 
of temperature and electron density in the solar atmosphere. A great 
deal of this work was done with interferometers of variable spacing, 
and many of the observations were carried out during the recent 
sunspot minimum, from 1952 through 1955. The experimental work 
has substantially confirmed the radio models of the solar atmosphere 
proposed by Ginzburg, in Russia, in 1946, and independently by Mar- 
tyn, in Australia, in 1946. 

The early observations revealed that radio emissions of different 
wavelength originate from different levels in the solar atmosphere; 
the shorter wavelengths from the lower levels (the chromosphere), 
and the longer wavelengths from the outer regions (the corona) . The 
intensities of these emissions not unexpectedly depend on the tem- 
perature of the appropriate emitting level, which is of the order of 
20,000 degrees in the chromosphere, and 1 million degrees in the outer 
corona. The observations also show that at the longer wavelengths 
the sun has a diameter of about 1 degree, which is twice that of its 
optical disk. 

RADIOHELIOGRAPHS 

Despite the small angular size of the sun, it has been possible to 
determine the precise distribution of brightness over the solar disk 
at various radio wavelengths. That is, pictures have been obtained 
showing how the sim would look if our eyes were tuned to radio waves 
instead of light. One of the most interesting of such experiments 
has been carried out by Christiansen, who has equipment operating 
at 21 cm. (not the radio spectral line of hydrogen). Christiansen 
uses 64 paraboloids, each having a diameter of 19 feet. These are 
arranged in two rows, north-south and east-west, in the form of a 
cross. The paraboloids are spaced at 40-foot intervals, so that the 
overall length of each arm of the cross is 1,240 feet (pi. 1, fig. 1). 
The signals from the two arms are combined, alternately in phase 
and out of phase, and the component of the output which alternates 
in synchronism is recorded. The system has a directional diagram 
which comprises a grid of points in the sky, and as the earth rotates. 



302 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



the various points in the grid scan different strips across the sun. In 
this way a picture of the sun is built up in the manner of a tele- 
vision picture in a period of about half an hour (fig. 1). All 64 
paraboloids are turned on equatorial axes to continue pointing at the 
sun during this time. These radioheliograms may be compared 
with the well-known optical spectroheliograms taken in Ha light. 
The optical spectroheliograms give a comprehensive picture of the 
chromosphere, with its prominences, flares, and plages. The radio- 



W 




Figure 1. — Radioheliogram of the sun at 21 cm. The contour brightness unit is 0.93 x 
lO* "K. (Diagram courtesy of Dr. W. N. Christiansen, CSIRO Division of Radio- 
physics, Sydney, Australia.) 

heliograms give an indication of the brightness distribution at a 
height of approximately 50,000 km. They show a close, but not per- 
fect correspondence with the chromospheric plages and sunspots. 

Similar instruments have now been put into operation at 1.8 m. and 
3.2 cm. at Meudon, France; 10 cm. at Stanford University; and 88 
cm. at the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the Carnegie 
Institution of Washington. 



TRANSIENT RADIO BURSTS FROM THE SUN 

The discovery of intense transient radio bursts from the sun was 
made accidentally in England during the air battles of World War II. 
In February 1942, radar operators, watching the skies for enemy 
aircraft, noticed an unusual form of interference. It was at first 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Maxwell 



Plate l 




1. One arm of the crossed periodic array used for solar observations at 21 cm. in Sydney. 
(Photograph courtesy of CSIRO Division of Radiophysics, Sydney, Australia.) 




2. The 28-foot antenna and 4-octave primary feed system used for solar radio observations 
at the Harvard Radio Astronomy Station, Fort Davis, Tex. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Maxwell 



PLATE 2 



(S/?W) A3N3n63«d 




(S/DW) A0N3n63yJ 



SOLAR RADIO ASTRONOMY — MAXWELL 303 

thought that the radar equipment was bemg jammed by the enemy, 
but J. S. Hey, of the British Army Operational Research group, 
traced the source of the disturbance to the sun. He also noted that 
the radio emissions from the sun were associated with the presence of 
sunspots on the solar disk. At the same time, a similar effect was 
noted on long-range radar systems in operation at Norfolk Island 
in the South Pacific. The increased noise level in these radars was 
also traced to solar disturbances. 

After World War II these bursts of radio emission from the sun 
were investigated in considerable detail with fixed-frequency receivers 
operating at numerous points throughout the whole radio spectrum. 
It was found that the radio emissions usually came in the form of 
a storm of bursts, whose intensity level was often 1,000 times the back- 
ground radiation from the sun. These radio noise storms frequently 
lasted for several days. At times, generally coincident with the ap- 
pearance of a great flare on the solar disk, there were outbursts of 
radio noise in which the intensity of the emissions could increase by a 
factor of a further thousand or more. Comparison of the records ob- 
tained with receivers operating at different wavelengths at the time of 
such outbursts revealed an interesting effect. The solar radio out- 
burst was first observed with the equipment operating at the shorter 
wavelengths, while at the longer wavelengths it did not appear until 
several minutes later. Payne-Scott, Yabsley, and Bolton suggested 
in 1947 that this striking phenomenon might be caused by the out- 
ward passage of a disturbance, traveling at about 1,000 km. per sec- 
ond through the solar atmosphere. As the disturbance traversed the 
chromosphere it would send out a burst of radio waves in the centi- 
meter band ; then, as it continued to travel outward through the solar 
atmosphere, it would send out radio bursts of successively increasing 
wavelength. 

SWEEP FREQUENCY RECEIVERS 

The most convenient manner of studying such solar bursts, which 
traverse a large part of the radio spectrum, is to use receivers which 
record emissions from the sun over a wide range of radio wavelengths. 
The first such instrument was put into operation in Sydney, in 1949, 
and it covered the band YO-130 Mc./s. It was subsequently extended 
to cover the range 40-240 Mc./s. This instrument marked a notable 
advance in solar radio techniques, and the resulting observations 
greatly simplified the existing complex classification of solar radio 
phenomena. 

In 1956 a similar experiment was put into operation at the Harvard 
Radio Astronomy Station, in Fort Davis, Tex. The equipment at this 
station covered a different part of the radio spectrum, was of greater 
sensitivity, and used a larger antenna. It originally operated over 

536608—60 21 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

the band 100-580 Mc./s., but lias now been extended to cover nearly 
six octaves of the electromagnetic spectrum, from 25-580 Mc./s. and 
from 2,000-4,000 Mc./s. As with the earlier Australian experiments, 
the Fort Davis equipment uses narrow-band tunable receivers that 
are repeatedly swept across a wide frequency range. The equipment 
comprises six separate receivers, since with existing radio techniques 
it is not possible for one receiver to cover a band of more than one 
octave. Because of its tremendous frequency range and high sensi- 
tivity, it was necessary to place the equipment in a remote section 
of the United States, to avoid manmade radio interference. 

The four very high and ultrahigh frequency receivers at Fort 
Davis are connected to a complex arrangement of primary antennas 
at the focus of a 28-foot paraboloid reflector (pi. 1, fig. 2), which 
tracks the sun daily from simrise to sunset. The two low-frequency 
receivers are connected to a fixed array that does not track the sun, 
but has a broad beam directed along the meridian at the celestial 
equator, so that the sun can be monitored for the greater part of 
the day. The equipment has now been in continuous operation from 
sunrise to sunset for just over 3 years, and an average of 95 percent 
of the possible observing time has been maintained. This may be 
compared with optical solar observations which are generally limited 
by inclement weather to less than 50 percent of the possible observing 
time. 

All six receivers sweep their respective octave bands three times per 
second, and their outputs are displayed on six cathode ray tubes. 
The spot displacement on each of these cathode ray tubes is propor- 
tional to the instantaneous frequency of the receiver, while the bright- 
ness is proportional to the receiver output. The cathode ray tubes 
are photographed with a 70-mm. camera, in which the film moves 
continuously at a speed of approximately half an inch per minute. 
Time marks are photographed onto this film to an accuracy of 1 
second. Originally the limit on the intensity range of the observa- 
tions was set by the film emulsion, which cannot handle signals that 
differ in intensity by more than 1,000 : 1. Two years ago, however, 
the response of the amplifiers in the receivers was "compressed," and 
in this way it was possible to extend the intensity range to 100,000 : 1. 
This is typical of the way in which the inherent flexibility of elec- 
tronic equipment is used to offset the limitations imposed on a system 
by its optical, mechanical, or audio sections. 

The frequency coordinate on the spectral films may be interpreted 
in terms of height in the solar atmosphere, according to the model of 
the solar atmosphere shown in figure 2. As would be expected, the 
equipment not only monitors the disturbances which occur at a given 
level in the solar atmosphere, but also gives warning of any disturb- 
ances which are moving inward or outward through the solar atmos- 



SOLAR RADIO ASTRONOMY — MAXWELL 



305 



phere. For example, a giant explosion near the solar surface — if at 
the limb of the sun, it is visible as an eruptive, surge, or spray promi- 
nence — will eject intense, fast-traveling shock waves, and jets of fast- 
moving particles. From the slope of the bursts on the film records 
(pi. 2), it is possible to deduce that some of these disturbances travel 
at speeds of approximately 1,000 km. per second. Such disturbances 
frequently continue traveling out from the sun until they reach the 
earth, where they give rise to the magnificent spectacle of the aurora 





APPROXIMATE 
HEIGHT (CALCULATEOJ 

lO'km. — — ' ~~ 

\ 


EMISSION 
FSEQUENCr 

"* ~~~" '" ""— «. 50 Mc/j (-6m.) 

OUTWARD 

TRAVELING 

OISTUR&ANC£ 




2x»0*k«.— - — " 


■~~~"~~" " — — . 100 Mc/S ('3m.) 


.-^ 


lO'km— — 


~' 600 Mc/s f-0.5m.) 



Figure 2. — Radio model of the solar atmosphere. A disturbance traveling outward 
through the solar atmosphere traverses regions of progressively lower electron density 
and generates radio signals of progressively decreasing frequency. The height figures 
are approximate. 

polaris, and simultaneously disrupt the earth's radio communications. 
On the average, tlie Fort Davis equipment has recorded about 30 such 
bursts per year over the sunspot maximum, and about half of them 
have been followed by terrestrial disturbances. 

Other disturbances travel outward at a velocity of about 100,000 
km. per second. These cause very short-lived radio bursts, about 10,000 
of which have been recorded every year of the sunspot maximum at 
Fort Davis. There is at present much speculation concerning the 
nature of the disturbance which gives rise to these radio bursts: 
whether it takes the form of a tremendously fast-moving shock wave, 
or M' hether it is a stream of particles. 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

It will be noticed that, until this point, the existence of these 
disturbances and the measurement of their speed have been inferred 
from the interpretation of the emitted radio frequencies in terms of 
an equivalent height in the solar atmosphere. Thus, a rate of change 
of frequency is interpreted in terms of a rate of change of height, 
which is the mathematical expression of velocity. Over the past year, 
these plausible assiunptions have been brilliantly confirmed in an ex- 
periment which combines both sweep frequency equipment and an 
interferometer, to give a direct measure of the translational velocity 
of these disturbances. This work, carried out in Australia by J. P. 
Wild, shows that these spectacular forms of solar radio bursts are 
definitely caused by disturbances moving outward through the solar 
atmosphere with the velocities quoted above. 

SOLAR RADIO BURSTS AND LOW-ENERGY COSMIC RAYS 

Recent observations, with scintillation and Geiger counters carried 
in satellites and balloons, have shown that the terrestrial atmosphere 
is frequently bombarded by solar protons of energies 30-300 Mev., 
vrhich may be designated low-energy cosmic rays. The solar protons 
have been detected outside the Van Allen radiation zones, at high 
magnetic latitudes. Because of their low magnetic rigidity, these 
particles can penetrate the terrestrial atmosphere only in the vicinity 
of the magnetic poles, and in these regions they also give rise to 
ionospheric polar blackouts. 

There has been much speculation concerning the origin of the low- 
energy solar cosmic rays, and their relation to solar radio bursts and 
flares. Examination of the solar radio data recorded over the past 18 
months shows that the low-energy cosmic rays are preceded by radio 
bursts of an unusual and exciting nature. Among solar radio as- 
tronomers these are known as continuum bursts of spectral Type IV. 
This type of radiation characteristically covers several octaves of 
the radio spectrum, is generally of great intensity, and often lasts for 
many hours. It has been suggested that it originates from a synchro- 
tron mechanism (the Schwinger mechanism), in which electrons with 
relativistic velocities are trapped in orbital motion in a magnetic field. 
The onset of the synchrotron radiation is generally preceded, about 
15 minutes ahead, by a solar flare, usually of importance 3 or 3+. 
Approximately 1 hour later, solar protons commence bombarding 
the earth. This sequence of events is now quite clearly established, 
and it has already occurred five times this year. On May 11 and 12, 
1959, the integral flux of protons at the top of the atmosphere in- 
creased by a factor of approximately 1,000 over the galactic cosmic 
ray component, and the composition of the incoming beam was es- 
sentially pure hydrogen. This spectacular increase in the proton 
count was preceded by solar radio outbursts of the continuum type on 



SOLAR RADIO ASTRONOMY — MAXWELL 307 

May 10 and 11. These great increases in cosmic rays, above the ter- 
restrial atmosphere, may, or may not, constitute an additional hazard 
for si)ace travel. It is, however, of considerable interest to note that 
their emission from the sun is detected by solar radio astronomers 
approximately 1 hour m advance of their arrival at the earth. 

CONCLUSION 

Over the past decade the information obtained by radio teclmiques 
has revolutionized existing theories of the processes that occur in the 
solar atmosphere. It has also helped elucidate the complicated series 
of events that originate in the sun and subsequently affect the earth's 
atmosphere. Early theories advanced to account for thermal radio 
emissions from the solar atmosphere have now been well substantiated, 
and some understandmg has also been achieved of the nonthermal 
processes which give rise to intense radio outbursts. Within the 
next few years we may expect to see a large accumulation of results 
from the radio helioscopes which are now being put mto operation 
throughout the world, increased efforts to improve the present resolv- 
ing power of radio instruments, and the extension of sweep frequency 
observations even further over the radio band. 



The New Uses of the Abstract 



By George A. W. Boehm 



Never before have so many people applied such abstract mathe- 
matics to so gi'eat a variety of problems. To meet the demands of 
industry, technology, and other sciences, mathematicians have had to 
invent new branches of mathematics and expand old ones. They have 
built a superstimcture of fresh ideas that people trained in the classi- 
cal branches of the subject would hardly recognize as mathematics 
at all. 

Applied mathematicians have been grappling successfully with the 
world's problems at a time, curiously enough, when pure mathemati- 
cians seem almost to have lost touch with the real world. Mathe- 
matics has always been abstract, but pure mathematicians are pushing 
abstraction to new limits. To them mathematics is an art they pursue 
for art's sake, and they do not much care whether it will ever have 
any practical use. 

Yet the very abstractness of mathematics makes it useful. By ap- 
plying its concepts to worldly problems the mathematician can often 
brush away the obscuring details and reveal simple patterns. Celes- 
tial mechanics, for example, enables astronomers to calculate the posi- 
tions of the planets at any time in the past or future and to predict the 
comings and goings of comets. Now this ancient and abstruse branch 
of mathematics has suddenly become impressively practical for cal- 
culating orbits of earth satellites. 

Even mathematical puzzles may have important applications. 
Mathematicians are still trymg to find a general rule for calculating 
the number of ways a particle can travel from one comer of a rectan- 
gular net to another corner without crossing its own path. Wlien they 
solve this seemingly simple problem, they will be able to tell chemists 
something about the buildup of the long-chain molecules of polymers. 

Mathematicians who are interested in down-to-earth problems have 
learned to solve many that were beyond the scope of mathematics 
only a decade or two ago. They have developed new statistical 
methods for controlling quality in high-speed industrial mass produc- 



^ Reprinted by permission from the July 1958 issue of Fortune Magazine ; copyright 
1958, Time Inc. 

309 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

tion. They have laid foundations for Operations Research techniques 
that businessmen use to schedule production and distribution. They 
have created an elaborate theory of "information" that enables com- 
munications engineers to evaluate precisely telephone, radio, and tele- 
vision circuits. They have grappled with the complexities of human 
behavior through game theory, which applies to military and business 
strategy alike. They have analyzed the design of automatic controls 
for such complicated systems as factory production lines and super- 
sonic aircraft. Now they are ready to solve many problems of space 
travel, from guidance and navigation to flight dynamics of missiles 
beyond the earth's atmosphere. 

Mathematicians have barely begun to turn their attention to the 
biological and social sciences, yet these once purely descriptive 
sciences are already taking on a new flavor of mathematical pre- 
cision. Biologists are starting to apply information theory to inher- 
itance. Sociologists are using sophisticated modern statistics to 
control their sampling. The bond between mathematics and the life 
sciences has been strengthened by the emergence of a whole group 
of applied mathematics specialties, such as biometrics, psychometrics, 
and econometrics. 

Now that they have electronic computers, mathematicians are solv- 
ing problems they would not have dared tackle a few years ago. In 
a matter of minutes they can get an answer that previously would 
have required months or even years of calculation. In designing 
computers and programing them to carry out instructions, further- 
more, mathematicians have had to develop new techniques. While 
computers have as yet contributed little to pure mathematical theory, 
they have been used to test certain relationships among numbers. 
It now seems possible that a computer someday will discover and 
prove a brand-new mathematical theorem. 

The unprecedented growth of U.S. mathematics, pure and applied, 
has caused an acute shortage of good mathematicians. Supplying 
this demand is a knotty problem. Mathematicians need more train- 
ing than ever before; yet they cannot afford to spend more years in 
school, for mathematicians are generally most creative when very 
young. A whole new concept of mathematical education, starting as 
early as the ninth grade, may offer the only escape from this dilemma. 

CONVENIENCE OF THE OUTLANDISH 

The applied mathematician must be a creative man. For applied 
mathematics is more than mere problem solving. Its primary goal 
is finding new mathematical approaches applicable to a wide range 
of problems. The same differential equation, for example, may de- 
scribe the scattering of neutrons by atomic nuclei and the propaga- 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 311 

tion of radio waves through the ionosphere. The same topological 
network may be a mathematical model of wires carrying current in 
an electric circuit and of gossips spreading rumors at a tea party. 
Because applied mathematics is inextricably tied to the problems it 
solves, the applied mathematician must be familar with at least one 
other field — e.g., aerodynamics, electronics, or genetics. 

The pure mathematician judges his work largely by esthetic 
standards; the applied mathematician is a pragmatist. His job is to 
make abstract mathematical models of the real world, and if they 
work, he is satisfied. Often his abstractions are outlandishly far- 
fetched. He may, for example, consider the sun as a mass concen- 
trated at a point of zero volume, or he may treat it as a perfectly 
round and homogeneous sphere. Either model is acceptable if it 
leads to predictions that jibe with experiment and observation. 

This matter-of-fact attitude helps to explain the radical changes 
in the long-established field of probability theory. Italian and 
French mathematicians broached the subject about three centuries 
ago to analyze betting odds for dice. Since then philosophers inter- 
ested in mathematics have been seriously concerned about the nature 
of a mysterious "agency of chance." Working mathematicians, 
however, do not worry about the philosophic notion of chance. They 
consider probability as an abstract and undefined property — much as 
physicists consider mass or energy. In so doing, mathematicians 
have extended the techniques of probability theory to many problems 
that do not obviously involve the element of chance. 

Probability today is almost like a branch of geometry. Each out- 
come of a particular experiment is treated as the location of a point 
on a line. And each repetition of the experiment is the coordinate 
of the point in another dimension. The probability of an outcome 
is a measure very much like the geometric measure of volume. Many 
problems in probability boil down to a geometric analysis of points 
scattered throughout a space of many dimensions. 

One of the most fertile topics of modern probability theory is the 
so-called "random walk." A simple illustration is the gambler's ruin 
problem, in which two men play a game until one of them is bankrupt. 
If one starts with $100 and the other with $200 and they play for 
$1 a game, the progress of their gambling can be graphed as a point 
on a line 300 units (i.e., dollars) long. The point jumps one unit, 
right or left, each time the game is played, and when it reaches either 
end of the line, one gambler is broke. The problem is to calculate 
how long the game is likely to last and what chance each gambler has 
of winning. 

Mathematicians have recently discovered some surprising facts 
about such games. When both players have unlimited capital and 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

the game can go on indefinitely, the lead tends not to change hands 
nearly so often as most people would guess. In a game where both 
players have an equal chance of winning — such as matching pennies — 
after 20,000 plays it is about 88 times as likely that the winner has led 
all the time as that the two players have shared the lead equally. No 
matter how long the games lasts, it is more likely that one player has 
led from the beginning than that the lead has changed hands any 
given number of times. 

The random- walk abstraction is applicable to a great many physical 
situations. Some clearly involve chance — e.g., diffusion of gases, flow 
of automobile traffic, spread of rumors, progress of epidemic disease. 
The technique has even been applied to show that after the last glacial 
period seed-carrying birds must have helped reestablish the oak forests 
in the northern parts of the British Isles. But some modem random- 
walk problems have no obvious connection with chance. In a compli- 
cated electrical network, for example, if the voltages at the terminals 
are fixed, the voltages at various points inside the circuit can be 
calculated by treating the whole circuit as a sort of two-dimensional 
gambler's ruin game. 

RISK VERSUS GAIN 

Mathematical statistics, the principal offshoot of probability theory, 
is changing just as radically as probability theory itself. Classical 
statistics has acted mainly as a tribunal, warning users against draw- 
ing risky conclusions. The judgments as handed down are always 
somewhat equivocal, such as : "It is 98 percent certain that drug A is 
at least twice as potent as drug B." But what if drug A is actually 
only half as potent? Classical statistics admits this possibility, but 
does not evaluate the consequences. Modern statisticians have gone a 
step farther with a new set of ideas known collectively as decision 
theory. "We now try to provide a guide to actions that must be taken 
under conditions of uncertainty," explains Herbert Robbins of Colum- 
bia. "The aim is to minimize the loss due to our ignorance of the true 
state of nature. In fact, from the viewpoint of game theory, statisti- 
cal inference becomes the best strategy for playing the game called 
science." 

The new approach is illustrated by the following example. A 
philanthropist offers to flip a coin once and let you call "heads" or 
"tails." If you guess right, he will pay you $100. You notice the 
coin is so badly bent and battered that it is much more likely to land 
on one side than the other. But you cannot decide which side the 
coin favors. The philanthropist is willing to let you test the coin with 
trial flips, but he insists you pay him $1 for each experiment. How 
many trial flips should you buy before you make up your mind ? The 
answer, of course, depends on how the trials turn out. If the coin 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 313 

lands heads up the first five times, you might conclude that it is almost 
certainly biased in favor of heads. But if you get three heads and 
two tails, you would certainly ask to experiment further. 

Industry faces this kind of problem regularly. A manufacturer 
with a new product tests it before deciding whether to put it on the 
market. The more he tests, the surer he will be that his decision 
will be right. But tests cost money, and they take time. Now modern 
statistics can help him balance risk against gain and decide how long 
to continue testing. It can also help him design and carry out experi- 
ments. New methods involving a great deal of multidimensional 
geometry can point out how products and industrial processes can be 
improved. A statistician can often apply these methods to tune up 
a full-scale industrial plant without interrupting production. (For 
an example, see the diagrams, figs. 1 and 2.) 

Classical statistics has been extended in another way. One of the 
latest developments is "nonparametric inference," a way of drawing 
conclusions about thmgs that can be sorted according to size, lon- 
gevity, dollar value, or any other graduated quality. Wliat matters 
is the size of the statistical sample and the ranking of any particular 
object in that sample. It is not actually necessary to measure any of 
the objects, so long as they can be compared. It is possible to say, for 
instance, that if the sample consists of 473 objects, it is 99 percent 
certain that only 1 percent of all objects of this sort will be larger 
than the largest object in the sample. It makes no difference what 
the objects are — people, automobiles, ears of corn, or numbers drawn 
out of a hat. And the statement is still true if instead of largeness 
you consider smallness, intelligence, cruising speed, or any other 
relevant quality. 

In practical application, nonparametric inference is being used to 
test batches of light bulbs. By burning a sample of 63 bulbs, for ex- 
ample, the manufacturer can conclude that 90 percent of all the bulbs 
in the batch will almost certainly (99 chances out of 100) have a longer 
life than the second bulb to burn out during the test. 

One of the most fascinating recent developments in applied mathe- 
matics is game theory, another offshoot of probability theory (see "A 
Theory of Strategy," Fortune, June 1949). From a mathematical 
viewpoint, game theory is not particularly abstruse; many mathe- 
maticians, indeed, consider it shallow. But it is exciting because it 
has given mathematicians an analytic approach to human behavior. 

Game theory is basically a mathematical description of competition 
among people or such groups of people as armies, corporations, or 
bridge partnerships. In theory, the players know all the possible 
outcomes of the competition and have a firm idea of what each out- 
come is worth to them. They are aware of all their possible strate- 
gies and those of their opponents. And invariably they behave 




Figure 2 

Figures 1 and 2. — Geometry helps statisticians improve industrial products and processes, 
such as the hypothetical chemical process shown in the diagram in figure 1. Like a 
great many processes, it is hard to perfect because it responds in a very irregular way to 
changes in temperature and pressure. The statistician doesn't have to know any chemi- 
cal theory to find out what temperature and pressure settings give the maximum yield — 
represented by the highest point on the "response surface." Rather, he approaches the 
problem like a blind man trying to find the highest peak in an unfamiliar country. The 
drawing in figure 2 illustrates his procedure. He starts with arbitrary settings and varies 
them slightly so that he can determine yields at the corners of a small square on the 
surface. If one corner is significantly higher than the others, he starts over again at 
that point and varies the settings to explore another small square. Successive steps 
lead him higher and higher. As the diagram in figure 1 makes evident, he chould be 
misled by several topographic features — e.g., the small peak in the foreground, the ridge 
at the right, or the crest of the pass between the twin peaks in the rear. Such a response 
surface could just as well represent engine performance as fuel and carburetor adjustment 
vary, or any other measurable quantity. When there are many variables to consider, 
the geometry becomes more complicated, because the surface has as many dimensions 
as there are independent variables. 

314 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 315 

"rationally" (though mathematicians are not sure just how to define 
"rational" behavior) . Obviously, game theory represents a high de- 
gree of abstraction; people are never so purposeful and well informed, 
even in as circumscribed a competition as a game of chess. Yet the 
abstraction of man is valid to the extent that game theory is proving 
useful in analyzing business and military situations. 

When it was first developed in the twenties, chiefly by Emile Borel 
in France and Jolm. von Neumann in Germany, game theory was 
limited to the simplest forms of competition. As late as 1944 the 
definitive book on tlie subject ("Theory of Games and Economic Be- 
havior," by Von Neumann and Princeton economist Oskar Morgen- 
stern) drew many of its illustrative examples from a form of one- 
card poker with limited betting between two people. Now, however, 
the strategies of two-person, zero-sum games (in which one player 
gains what his opponent loses) have been quite thoroughly analyzed. 
And game theorists have pushed on to more complex types of com- 
petition, which are generally more true to life. 

Early game theoi-y left much to be desired when it assumed that 
every plan should be designed for play against an allwise opponent 
who would find out the strategy and adopt his own most effective 
counterstrategy. In military terms, this amounted to the assumption 
that the enemy's intelligence service was infallible. The game-theory 
solution was a randomly mixed strategy — one in which each move 
would be dictated by chance, say the roll of dice, so that the enemy 
could not possibly anticipate it. (For much the same reason the 
United States Armed Forces teach intelligence officers to estimate the 
enemy's capabilities rather than his intentions.) Many mathemati- 
cians have felt that this approach is unrealistically cautious. Re- 
cently game theorists have worked out strategies that will take ad- 
vantage of a careless or inexpert opponent without risking anything 
if he happens to play shrewdly. (For a relatively simple example, 
see diagram, fig. 3.) 

The most difficult games to analyze mathematically are those in 
which the players are not strictly competing with one another. An 
example is a labor-management negotiation; both sides lose unless 
they reach an agreement. Another complicating factor is collusion 
among players — e.g., an agreement between two buyers not to bid 
against each other. Still another is payment of money outside the 
framework of the "game," as when a large company holds a distrib- 
utor in line by subsidizing him. 

WHO GETS HOW MUCH? 

The biggest problem in analyzing such complex situations has been 
to find a mathematical procedure for distributing profits in such a 
way that "rational" players will be satisfied. One formula has been 



316 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



developed by Lloyd Sliapley of the liaiid Corp. Aii outside arbitra- 
tor must decide the payments. The formula tells him how to give 
the players payments appropriate to the strength of their bargaining 
powers, and it also maximizes the total payment. There are obvious 
practical difficulties in applying Shapley's "arbitration value." In 
the first place, the payment, or value, each player receives can seldom 
be measured simply in dollars. Thus the arbitrator would have a 
hard time deciding on the proper distribution if the players were to 



a> 






o 



o 
o 



Call either 
"Heads" or "Tails" 



Follow formula 



1 — r 



I I 



Proportion of "Heads" to date 



Figure 3. — How to play smarter than safe. Early workers in game theory designed strat- 
egies that were safe to use against infallible opponents, but mathematicians now know 
ways to take advantage of a careless opponent without risking anything. The diagram 
dictates the best strategy for guessing whether your opponent has placed a concealed coin 
heads up or tails up. If he were wise, he would mix heads and tails randomly, simply by 
flipping the coin each time. In that case, you could do no better than break even in the 
long run. But if he tries to anticipate your guesses, the strategy in the diagram enables 
you to win whenever he follows any regular pattern; and in any event you will do no 
worse than break even in the long run. 

As the game progresses, you keep track of the proportion of times your opponent has 
placed the coin heads up and the proportion of times you have won. This determines the 
point Q When Q is in the black or gray triangles, you follow the pure strategies shown 
in the diagram. But when Q is in the white triangle, you must adopt a mixed strategy, 
which you calculate as follows: Draw a line connecting the center of the diagram with Q 
and extending to the base line. The length x determines your strategy. Since x is in 
this case }i, you should adopt some random way of calling heads or tails that makes it 
three times as likely that you will call tails. (You might put four slips of paper in a hat — 
three of them marked tails — and draw one.) This method takes advantage of your op- 
ponent's apparent tendency to place the coin tails up, yet it keeps him from guessing your 
strategy. If you follow this plan, the point Q should ultimately end up in the black 
triangle, which represents a profit for you. 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 317 

lie about what they wanted to get from the game and how much they 
valued it. 

While game theory has already contributed a great deal to decision 
theory in modern statistics, practical applications to complex human 
situations have not been strikingly successful. The chief troubles 
seem to be that there are no objective mathematical ways to formulate 
"rational" behavior or to measure the value of a given outcome to a 
particular player. At the very least, however, game theory has got 
mathematicians interested in analyzing human affairs and has stimu- 
lated more economists and social scientists to study higher mathe- 
matics. Game theory may be a forerunner of still more penetrating 
mathematical approaches that will someday help man to interpret 
more accurately what he observes about human behavior. 

UNIVERSAL TOOL 

The backbone of mathematics, pure as well as applied, is a con- 
glomeration of techniques known as "analysis." Analysis used to be 
virtually synonymous with the applications of differential and inte- 
gral calculus. Modern analysts, however, use theorems and tech- 
niques from almost every other branch of mathematics, including 
topology, the theory of numbers, and abstract algebra. 

In the last 20 or 30 years mathematical analysts have made rapid 
progress with differential equations, which serve as mathematical 
models for almost every physical phenomenon involving any sort of 
change. Today mathematicians know relatively simple routines for 
solving many types of differential equations on computers. But 
there are still no straightforward methods for solving most nonlinear 
differential equations — the kind that usually crop up when large or 
abrupt changes occur. Typical are the equations that describe the 
aerodynamic shock waves produced when an airplane accelerates 
through the speed of sound. 

Eussian mathematicians have concentrated enormous effort on the 
theory of nonlinear differential equations. One consequence is that 
the Russians are now ahead of the rest of the world in the study of 
automatic control, and this may account for much of their success with 
missiles. 

It is in the field of analysis that electronic computers have made 
perhaps their most important contributions to applied mathematics. 
It still takes a skillful mathematician to set up a differential equation 
and interpret the solution. But in the final stages he can usually re- 
duce the work to a numerical procedure — long and tedious, perhaps, 
but straightforward enough for a computer to carry out in a few 
minutes or at most a few hours. The very fact that computers are 
available makes it feasible to analyze mathematically a great many 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 















— - 


























































































































"*~* 






















Figure 4. — How to make the difficult simple. Problem: Given'''as many of the small rec- 
tangles as you want, can you arrange them to cover completely the large figure? None 
of the small rectangles must overlap or jut beyond the margins of the large figure. As it 
happens, the feat is impossible, but the difficult thing is to prove conclusively that it is 
impossible. (For a mathematical solution, see fig. 5.) 

problems that used to be handled by various rules of thumb, and less 
accurately. 

MATHEMATICS OF LOGIC 

Computers have also had some effects on pure mathematics. Faced 
with the problems of instructing computers what to do and how to 
do it, mathematicians have reopened an old and partly dormant field : 
Boolean algebra. This branch of mathematics reduces the rules of 
formal logic to algebraic form. Two of its axioms are startlingly dif- 
ferent from the axioms of ordinary high-school algebra. In Boolean 
algebra a+a=a, and aXa=a. The reason becomes clear when a is 
interpreted as a statement, the plus sign as "or," and the multiplica- 
tion sign as "and." Thus, for example, the addition axiom can be 
illustrated by: "(tliis dress is red) or (this dress is red) means (this 
dress is red)." 

Numerical analysis, a main part of the study of approximations, is 
another field that mathematicians have revived to program problems 
for computers. There is still a great deal of pure and fmidamental 
mathematical research to be done on numerical errors that may arise 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 



319 



through rounding off numbers. Computers are particularly liable 
to commit such errors, for there is a limit to the size of the numbers 
they can manipulate. If a machine gets a very long number, it has 
to drop the digits at the end and work with an approximation. While 
the approximation may be extremely close, the error may grow to be 
enormous if the number is multiplied by a large factor at a later stage 
of the problem. It is generally safe to assume that rounding off tends 
to even out in long arithmetic examples. In adding a long column of 
figures, for instance, you probably won't go far wrong if you con- 
sider 44.23 simply as 44, and 517.61 as 518. But it is sheer super- 
stition to suppose that rounding off cannot possibly build up a serious 
accumulation of errors. (It obviously would if all the numbers hap- 
pened to end in .499.) 

There are subtler pitfalls in certain more elaborate kinds of com- 
putation. In some typical computer problems involving matrices 
that are used to solve simultaneous equations, John Todd of the Cali- 




FiGURE 5. — Solution to problem in figure 4. The key to the solution is to imagine that 
adjacent squares have different colors, as on a chessboard. Then it becomes obvious 
that each rectangle has to cover precisely one black square and one white square. Since 
the large figure contains unequal numbers of black and white squares, there can be no way 
to cover it with rectangles. The solution represents a conclusive negative proof, a logical 
feat that is peculiar to mathematics; in other sciences negative conclusions are invariably 
risky. The postulation of color is a relatively easy abstraction, but it is characteristic of 
some of the more complex abstractions that mathematicians use to simplify problems and 
theorems. 



536608—60- 



-22 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

fornia Institute of Technology has constructed seemingly simple nu- 
merical problems that a computer simply cannot cope with. In some 
cases the computer gets grossly inaccurate results ; in others it cannot 
produce any answer at all. It is a challenge to numerical analysts 
to find ways to foresee this sort of trouble and then avoid it. 

PATTERNS IN PRIMES 

Computers have as yet made few direct contributions to pure 
mathematics except in the field of number theory. Here the results 
have been inconclusive but interesting. D. 11. Lehmer of the Univer- 
sity of California has had a computer draw up a list of all the prime 
numbers less than 46,000,000. (A prime is a number that is exactly 
divisible only by itself or one — e.g. 2, 3, 17, 01, 1,021.) A study of 
the list confirms that prime numbers, at least up to 46,000,000 are dis- 
tributed among other whole numbers according to a "law" worked out 
theoretically about a century ago. The law states that the number 
of primes less than any given large number, X, is approximately 
equal to X divided by the natural logarithm of X. (Actually, the 
approximation is consistently a little on the low side.) Lehmer's list 
also tends to confirm conjectures about the distribution of twin 
primes — i.e., pairs of consecutive odd numbers both of which are 
primes, like 29 and 31, or 101 and 103. The number of twin primes 
less than X is roughly equal to X divided by the square of the natural 
logarithm of X. 

Lehmer and H. S. Vandiver of the University of Texas have also 
used a computer to test a famous theorem that mathematicians the 
world over are still trying either to prove or disprove. Three hun- 
dred years ago the French mathematician Fermat stated that it is 
impossible to satisfy the following equation by substituting whole 
numbei*s (except zero) for all the letters if n is greater than 2: 

Lehmer and Vandiver have sought to find a single exception. If 
they could, the theorem would be disproved. Fortunately they have 
not had to test every conceivable combination of numbers ; it is suffi- 
cient to try substituting all prime numbere for n. And there are 
further shortcuts. The number n^ for example, must not divide any 
of a certain set of so-called "Bernoulli number" ; otherwise it cannot 
satisfy the equation. (The Bernoulli numbers are irregular. The 
1st is 1/6; the 3d, 1/30; the 11th, 691/2,730; the 13th, 7/6; the 
17th, 43,867/798; the 19th, 1,222,277/2,310. Numbers later in the 
series are enormous.) 

Lehmer and Vandiver have tested the Fermat theorem for all prime 
71's up to 4,000, but they seem to be coming to a dead end. The Ber- 
noulli numbers at this stage are nearly 10,000 digits long, and even 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 321 

a fast computer takes a full hour to test each n. The fact that a ma- 
chine has failed to find an exception does not, of course, prove the 
Fermat theorem, although it does perhaps add a measure of assur- 
ance that the theorem is true. 

But it is possible for a computer to produce a mathematical proof. 
Allen Newell of Kand Corp. and Herbert A. Simon of Carnegie Tech 
have worked out a program of instructions that tells a high-speed 
computer how to work out proofs of some elementary theorems in 
mathematical logic contained in "Principia Mathematica," a three- 
volume treatise by Alfred North Whitehead and Bertrand Eussell. 

The Newell and Simon program is based on heuristic thinking — the 
kind of hunch-and-analogy approach that a creative human mind 
uses to simplify complicated problems. The computer is supplied 
with some basic axioms, and it stores away all theorems it has previ- 
ously proved. When it is told to prove an unfamiliar theorem, it first 
iries to draw analogies and comparisons wdth the theorems it already 
knows. In many cases the computer produces a logical proof within 
a few minutes; in others it fails to produce any proof at all. It 
would conceivably be possible to program a computer to solve 
theorems with an algorithmic approach, a sure-fire, methodical pro- 
cedure for exhausting all possibilities. But such a program might 
take years for the fastest computer to carry out. 

Although most mathematicians scoff at the idea, Newell and Simon 
are confident that heuristic programing will soon enable computers to 
do truly creative mathematical work. They guess that within 10 
years a computer will discover and prove an important mathematical 
theorem that never occurred to any human mathematician. 

HELP WANTED 

But computers are not going to put mathematicians out of work. 
Quite to the contrary, computers have opened up so many new 
applications for mathematics that industrial job opportunities for 
mathematicians have more than doubled in the last five years. About 
one-fourth of the 250 people who are getting Ph. D.'s in mathematics 
this year are going into industry — chiefly the aircraft, electronics, 
communications, and petroleum companies. In 1946 only about one 
in nine Ph. D.'s took jobs in industry. 

While most companies prefer mathematicians who have also had 
considerable background in physics or engineering, many companies 
are also eager to hire men who have concentrated on pure mathe- 
matics. Starting pay for a good young mathematician with a fresh 
Ph. D. now averages close to $10,000 a year in the aircraft industry, 
about double that of 1950 (and about double today's starting pay in 
universities). 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Still, a great deal of industrial mathematics is done by physicists 
and engineers who have switched to mathematics after graduation. 
And there is also room for people with bachelor's and master's de- 
grees, particularly in programing computers to perform calculations. 

Different companies use mathematicians in different ways. Some 
incorporate them in research teams along with engineers, physicists, 
metallurgists, and other scientists. But a growing number have set 
up special mathematics groups, w^hich carry out their ow^n research 
projects and also do a strictly limited amount of problem solving 
for other scientific departments. 

The oldest and most illustrious industrial mathematics department 
was set up in 1930 by Bell Telephone Laboratories. It started with 
six or eight professional mathematicians and grew slowly until after 
the war. Then m 10 years it doubled in size. Today the depart- 
ment has about 30 professional mathematicians, half of them with 
Ph. D.'s in mathematics, the rest with Ph. D.'s in other sciences. The 
department has made outstanding contributions to mathematics. 
Notable is information theory, which was developed during and after 
the war by Claude Shannon as a mathematical model for language 
and its communication. 

CRISIS IN EDUCATION 

The demand for mathematicians of every sort is rapidly outstrip- 
ping the capacity of the U.S. educational system. Swelling enroll- 
ments in mathematics courses are already begimiing to tax college 
and university mathematics departments. At Princeton, for 
example, the mathematics majors have for years numbered only 5 to 
10, but 19 members of last year's junior class elected to major in 
mathematics. To complicate matters further, the good college and 
university departments no longer require their professors to teach 
12 to 15 hours a week. So that the teachers can also do research, the 
average classroom time has been reduced to 9 hours m most schools, 
and to less than 6 in some of the best universities. Yet the serious 
mathematics student now needs more trainmg than ever before. If 
he wants a good job in industry or in a top university, he must have 
a doctor's degree; and if he wants to excel in research, he should have 
a year or two of postdoctoral study. 

There is a great deal to be mastered in modern mathematics, but 
surprisingly it is relatively easier to learn than most of the mathe- 
matics traditionally taught in high school and college, despite its 
abstractness and complexity. One change that would obviously help 
would be to start teaching the important modem concepts and tech- 
niques earlier. The way mathematics is taught now, complains John 
G. Kemeny of Dartmouth, "it is the only subject you can study for 14 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 323 

years [i.e., through sophomore calcuhis] without learning anything 
that's been done since the year 1800." 

THE DARTMOUTH PLAN 

Some colleges are now making progress in modernizing their math- 
ematics curricula. Several no longer require a special course in trigo- 
nometry. "We really don't have to train everybody to be a surveyor," 
explains one department head. Under the leadership of Kemeny, 
Dartmouth in the last 5 years has almost completely revised its under- 
graduate course. There are now, in fact, three separate courses of 
study in mathematics : one for mathematics majors, another for engi- 
neers and others who must have mathematical training, and a third 
for the liberal-arts students who want to make mathematics part of 
their cultural background. 

The courses are amazingly popular. Ninety percent of all Dart- 
mouth students take at least one semester of mathematics, and more 
than 60 percent finish a year of it (mathematics is an elective for 
most of them). Kemeny and two associates have written for one of 
their courses a remarkable textbook entitled "Introduction to Finite 
Mathematics." Within a year after its publication in January 1957, it 
was being used by about 100 colleges, in some cases just for math- 
ematics courses especially designed for social-science majors. And 
several New York high schools have adopted the book for special 
sections of exceptional students. 

MATHEMATICS FOR CHILDREN 

The movement to teach more mathematics and teach it sooner has 
filtered down to the secondary-school level. The College Entrance 
Examination Board, through its commission on mathematics, has 
drawn up a program for modernizing secondary-school mathematics 
courses. The chief aim of the commission, according to its executive 
director, Albert E. Meder, is to give students an appreciation of the 
true meaning of mathematics and some idea of modern developments. 
Algebra, he points out, is no longer a "disconnected mass of memorized 
tricks but a study of mathematical structure; geometry no longer a 
body of theorems arranged in a precise order that can be memorized 
without understanding." 

The College Board has the support of most leading mathematicians. 
About 20 of them are meeting with 20 high-school mathematics teach- 
ers this summer at Yale to write outlines of sample textbooks based 
partly on the College Board's reconmiendations. This group, headed 
by E. G. Begle of Yale, plans to write the actual books within the next 
year so that teachers and commercial publishers will know how mathe- 
maticians think mathematics ought to be taught in high school. 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Perhaps the most radical step in U.S. mathematical education has 
been taken by the University of Illinois' experimental high school. 
There, under the guidance of a member of the university's mathematics 
department, a professor of education, Max Beberman, has introduced 
a completely new mathematics curriculum. It starts with an informal 
axiomatic approach to arithmetic and algebra and proceeds through 
aspects of probability theory, set theory, number theory, complex num- 
bers, matli^matical induction, and analytic geometry. The approach 
reflects the rigor, abstractness, and generality of modern mathematics. 
To make room for some of the new concepts, Beberman and his ad- 
visers have had to reduce the amount of time spent drilling on such 
techniques as factoring algebraic expressions. 

So far the experiment has been very stimulating to students — partly, 
of course, because of the very fact that the course is an experiment. In 
the college entrance examinations of 1957, the first group of students 
to complete 4 years of the Illinois course made some of the highest 
scores in the nation. 

While 12 other high schools have now experimentally adopted the 
Illinois mathematics curriculum, it is not likely to be widely used for 
some time. The reason is that most high-school teachers have to be 
completely retrained to teach it. With Carnegie Foundation support, 
the University of Illinois has begun to train high-school teachers from 
many States to teach the new curriculum. 

For many years it has been hard for a would-be teacher to learn 
what mathematics he needs to teach any serious high-school course. 
Prof. George Polya of Stanford explains : "The mathematics depart- 
ment [of a university] offers them tough steak they cannot chew, and 
the school of education vapid soup with no meat in it." The National 
Science Foundation has helped more than 50 colleges and universities 
set up institutes where high-school teachers can study mathematics for 
a summer or even a full academic year. 

OPPORTUNITY AHEAD 

Plowever many mathematicians there may be, there will always be 
a need for more first-rate minds to create new mathematics. This will 
be true of applied mathematics as well as pure mathematics. For ap- 
plied mathematics now presents enough of an intellectual challenge to 
attract even academic men who pride themselves on creating mathe- 
matics for its own sake. One young assistant professor, recently of- 
fered $16,000 by industry, is seriously thinking of abandoning his uni- 
versity career. He explains : "I think that the problems in applied 
mathematics would offer me just as much stimulation as more basic 
research." 



NEW USES OF THE ABSTRACT — BOEHM 325 

"Whole new fields of mathematics are needed to cope with problems in 
other sciences and human affairs. Transportation engineers, for ex- 
ample, still lack a mathematical method to analyze the turbulence of 
4-lane highway traffic ; and it may be years before they can apply pre- 
cise mathematical reasoning to 3-dimensional air traffic. Biologists 
have used almost no mathematics aside from statistics, but now some of 
them are seriously thinking of applying topology. This branch of 
mathematics, which deals with generalized shapes and disregards size, 
may be the most appropriate way to describe living cells with their 
enormous variations in size and shape. Neurophysiologists are look- 
ing for a new kind of algebra to represent thinking processes, which 
are by no means random, yet not entirely methodical. 

There are still some remarkably simple questions that are teasing 
mathematicians. They have not yet found, for example, a general 
solution to the following problem : Given a road map of N folds, how 
many ways can you refold it ? And when this is solved, there will be 
another piizzle, and another. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25, D.C. 



Mirages 

By James H. Gordon ^ 



[With 1 plate] 

Men have been seeing mirages and wondering about them for 
thousands of years. They must have talked about them, too, but when 
it came to writing about them, the subject seems almost to have been 
taboo. Nothing about them appears in the literature of the Egyp- 
tians or other early civilizations, or in the writings of the Greeks or 
Romans. They are not mentioned in the Bible, by Marco Polo, or by 
w^riters about the Crusades. Perhaps not too long after the Crusades, 
a recurring mirage seen over the Straits of Messina was given a 
name — Fata Morgana. In 1798 a physician with Napoleon's army in 
Egypt wrote about appearances of water on the desert. To the best 
of my knowledge, only one mirage is mentioned in American history ; 
that was in 1878, when Custer's little army marched away from Fort 
Abraham Lincoln to play its tragic part in the Battle of the Little 
Big Horn. Farewells said, the force had passed out of sight when to 
those left in the fort a mirage show^ed the column marching away 
through the sky, each man and horse clear. 

Another mirage story is told of World War I days when Allenby's 
army was moving north from Egypt against the Turks. The two 
forces had met and were joined in a great battle, with the stronger 
Turkish army slowly gaining the advantage. A Turkish outpost 
rushed word in to the high command that strong British reinforce- 
ments had been seen moving up, possibly to attack the flank. A hur- 
ried conference decided that the Turkish army should break off the 
battle and withdraw, wliich was done. But there had been no rein- 
forcements. What had been seen was a mirage — one that had a hand 
in the making of history. I have not been able to verify this story. 

Mirages of course act strictly in accordance with the laws of na- 
ture, though it may seem that these laws are used with a bit of poetic 
license at times. Two of them are so deeply involved that they might 
well be called the mirage makers. One has to do with the density of 

1 Former meteorologist with the U.S. Weather Bureau. 

327 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

air as affected by temperature and pressure; the other governs 
changes in the speed of light, and, incidentally, its direction, as it 
passes from an air layer of one density into that of another. There 
are two other factors involved — junior partners that have a definite 
hand in the business, to be discussed later. Watching a mirage, one 
often gets the impression that it is a directed performance, and one 
well done. 

The widespread belief that a mirage is something unreal, a sort of 
trick played on the eyes, is wrong. The picture a mirage presents is 
real but never quite accurate. The effect of the mirage is to change the 
seeming location or appearance of an object — not infrequently, both. 
The seeming shift in position may be hardly noticeable or may amount 
to many miles ; change in appearance may be slight or extensive. Both 
of these changes are brought about by refraction ; that is, a bending in 
the course of the light path from object to observer. The bending 
occurs when light passes from dense to less dense air, or vice versa. 
Most of us remember the example of refraction we were shown in 
school when a spoon was placed in a glass full of water. Looked at 
from an angle, the handle seemed to bend sharply where it entered the 
water. Whereas the difference in the densities of air and water is com- 
paratively great, that between two layers of air is very slight, so that 
the bending would be almost infinitesimal. A succession of such bends, 
however, could bring about an appreciable change in direction of the 
light path. To do this — and it is necessary for mirage making — a 
mass of air must have a progressive and abnormally great density 
change within it. The function of such an air mass as a bending or 
refracting agency, similar to that of the lenses in our optical instru- 
ments, seems to justify calling it an air lens, at least until a better name 
offers. Physically it bears little resemblance to our optical lenses. Its 
depth may vary from an inch or two to a hundred feet or more and its 
area from a few square feet to many square miles. Because it is com- 
posed of air and is surrounded by air, except where it rests on the 
ground, its boundaries are often hard to ascertain. The evidence at 
hand indicates that the lens is likely to be approximately flat and to 
operate chiefly in a horizontal position, since bending of the light 
path is mostly up and down, not sideways. 

It is not easy to accept the fact that a certain mass of air, surrounded 
by other air, can be maintained as a separate entity and do things the 
surrounding air cannot do ; that it can continue as a thing apart for 
some time, strongly resisting integration. A demonstration of this 
type of phenomenon came to my notice in the Norris Basin of the 
Yellowstone Park a number of years ago. Norris Basin is an area of 
many small geysers which intermittently spew up steam and water a 
few feet into the air. Runoff from the many small geyser basins is 



MIRAGES — GORDON 329 

carried away by a shallow stream perhaps 8 feet wide. Some little dis- 
tance below the last inflow there is, or was, a small footbridge spanning 
the brook and offering an excellent view of its gravelly bed. This was 
made up of parallel strips of color — reds, browns, greens, yellows, 
blues, and so on — not much more than an inch wide with lines between 
them sharply drawn. Each stripe represented the streambed carrying 
the flow from some particular geyser. Algae, differing in color, had 
adapted themselves to the temperature and mineral content of the 
various basins, and the overflow carried some of them with it to find 
a new home on the pebbles and gravel of the streambed, each one mark- 
ing clearly the flow from its own basin. These little streamlets had 
flowed along for some distance without mixing, and so continued as 
far as the eye could follow. They presented visible evidence, thanks 
to the algae, of the ability of a stream of water, probably with slight 
difference in density from its neighbors, to keep its separate identity 
w^hile flowing along in contact with other streams. If it had not been 
for the algae, this phenomenon would have been as invisible to us as 
most of the air lenses in the general airmass. 

Getting back to these lenses, let us look at the diagrams (fig. 1) which 
attempt to make clear how or why a bending in the light path occurs ; 
then, by making use of the air lens in the two positions, dense side up 
and less dense side up, how the effects are brought about. Results from 
the two positions of the lens differ so radically that it seems best to 
designate them as lenses No. 1 and No. 2. The function of No. 1, 
denser at the top than at the bottom, is almost exclusively that of mak- 
ing water seem to be where there is none. As the diagram shows, lens 
No. 1 will make an object seem to be lower than it actually is. The 
object is usually a bit of blue sky near the horizon which is made to 
appear on a road or on a dry lake bed, where it looks like water. This 
lens will be formed almost exclusively in contact with sun-heated 
gromid or roadway, but it has also been observed against walls heated 
by the sun. It has been formed in the laboratory as well. 

The No. 2 lens, denser at the bottom than at the top, has the reverse 
effect of No. 1 in that it makes an object, or part of it, seem to be higher 
than it is. The activities of No. 2 lens produce three types of effects : 
(1) The lens when lying on a ridge between object and observer, almost 
invariably produces a good, clear picture of some object, normally 
hidden behind the ridge, that is lifted into sight by the mirage. (2) 
When the lens is in the temperature inversion layer of the atmosphere 
from a few feet to thousands of feet above the ground, it can distort the 
appearance of an object, in addition to raising it up. (3) Also, when 
the lens is in the temperature inversion layer, it can pick up and 
transport a picture or image and show it a few miles or hundreds of 
miles away. The picture may be erect or inverted, and sometimes 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



^-ro^-^ 



C)EN3V-TY WrTH "~~ -~_ ' "~ 

TtM'PERATu^E MR LENS 



1 



^ ^°08,ef^ ^ _ LENS N0.I ^>^il 2°- 



C)R0UN,r, na ^ '~ '- ~ 'j 



PAVtMCViT 



^3113. 



^"6^1,15^'^ LENS No.Z 






LCT, 



Figure 1. — Mirage formation depends on a lens of air similar in function to lenses in our 
cameras and telescopes. Density of the air forming it must increase or decrease progres- 
sively from top to bottom. Speed of light increases as it moves into less dense air, and 
conversely. In the first diagram, the left side of a shaft of light enters the lens first, 
picking up speed. At all times, while within the lense, it is in thinner air and moving 
faster than the right side, covering the longer arc while the right side covers the shorter 
one. The result is a change in direction of the light path. As drawn the center diagram 
would be known as lens No. 1 with the quality of making the object of the mirage seem 
lower than it is. Turned over, as in No. 2, it works equally well in making the object 
seem higher than it is in reality. No. 1 nearly always rests on the ground. No. 2 may be 
on a ridge, between object and observer, or aloft in the free air. To facilitate drawing, 
change in direction as shown by diagrams is made much greater than we find in nature, 
as is the depth of the lens in proportion to diameter. Because the rate of density change 
is rarely uniform, the path of direction-change arc is unlikely to be a simple curve. Its 
penetration is likely to be at, or near, the bottom of lens. 

both positions are shown. Actually, of course, mirage making is often 
not nearly so simple as might be inferred from the diagrams. 

Some types of mirage, such as the seeming strip of water in the road, 
or water in a dry lake bed, may be seen very frequently. Others ap- 
pear often during certain seasons of the year. Wind, humidity, cloudi- 
ness, or storm can effectively interfere with their habits. Then there 
are those that appear only several times a year or once in a number of 
years, or even once in a lifetime or within the memory of man. (One 
of my best mirage stories is nearly a hundred years old and is ap- 
parently the only such appearance over that little town in all that 
time.) They are seemingly phenomena of habit, showing in the same 
place over and over again and, just as stubbornly, not showing in other 
places. Mirages do not broadcast their pictures as does a moving- 
picture screen ; they may be seen only from a limited area, established 
by the lens's angle of refraction. In the case of the No. 1 lens, the field 
of observation is sometimes a broad-rimmed circle completely sur- 
rounding the mirage. Actually as we move around that circle, the bit 
of sky pictured is constantly changing, but it looks the same. 



MIRAGES — GORDON 331 

The commonest mirage in our desert country today is a seeming 
strip of water on the highway which appears when we are at some dis- 
tance and vanishes as we come near. The frequency of this type is a 
modern development, paralleling that of the automobile and paved 
highways ; it was very rarely seen on the old dirt roads. Frequently it 
may show the seeming reflection of an approaching car or, after sun- 
down, its headlights in the seeming water. An asphalt surface is its 
favorite location. On warm afternoons, the air temperature next to 
this surface may be 10° higher than that an inch above, 20° higher 
than 6 inches above, supplying the foundation for an air lens. 

Perhaps you have wondered why these little mirages appear only 
on scattered parts of the road surface. Their location is definite; 
tliey do not move with you. If you had looked back you probably 
would have seen the first one pop into sight again after you had 
gone a hundred yards or so. But there would be long stretches with 
none at all, in spite of the smi's beating down on the surface. These 
mirageless areas have long been a puzzle. Looking for an explana- 
tion, I took a series of temperature readings about 3:30 on warm 
June afternoons in a mirage- forming area and in a nonforming one 
about 10 feet away. The bulb was held at the surface, barely above 
it, up one-third inch, 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 inches. There was appreciable 
wind movement at all times. To make sure the temperature shown 
by the bulb was not affected by direct radiation from the asphalt, 
a sheet of paper was interposed between the two, resulting in negli- 
gible change. Readings in the two locations were practically identi- 
cal. The mirage-forming area seemed to be surrounded by other air 
with just as favorable conditions. The only hint of an explanation 
seemed to be found in the fact that there was certainly a general 
tendency for mirage- forming areas to be in depressions. They might 
be quite appreciable or so slight as to be hardly more than a token, 
such as the converging cracks in the surface or depressed lines left 
by street repair. 

It was said for years that the reason mirages were so much more 
common over asphalt than over dirt was that the black surface became 
so much hotter under the sunshine. To test this, comparative read- 
ings were taken in the same manner as described earlier, over two 
small mirage-forming areas of the asphalt about a hundred feet apart, 
and in several locations over the dry, loose soil of an adjacent vacant 
lot. Results were so unexpected that 12 sets of readings were taken. 
Surface-temperature readings over the dirt ran from 6° to 10° higher 
than over the asphalt, this difference gradually growing smaller with 
elevation. Actually, the difference was logical enough, and any bare- 
foot boy could have told you that the dirt was hotter. Asphalt is a 
much better conductor of heat than dry dirt. Heat absorbed by the 
pavement was carried down and distributed throughout the mass, 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

whereas that absorbed by dry soil piled up at or near the surface. 
Any extra absorption by the black surface was more than offset by 
poor conductivity of the soil, and this, naturally enough, was reflected 
in the temperature of the overlying air. Readings taken at midnight 
and sunrise bear out this explanation. At those times, temperatures 
immediately over the pavement, still pouring out its stored-up heat, 
were from 5° to 8° higher than over the ground, which had radiated 
its near-surface heat rapidly. Just after sundown, the two were 
about equal. 

There is still left the question as to why the superheated air over 
the ground and so much of the pavement was not mirage forming. 
The ground had many depressions which seemed to have no value 
at all for that purpose. Pursuing the question a little further and 
not having cement paving available for testing, I took temperatures 
over the cement sidewalk. They ran fairly close to those over the 
asphalt. The relatively small number of these mirages over cement 
paving, even w^hen blackened by oily exhaust, may be explained by the 
method of laying. The asphalt is rolled on, making quite possible 
the formation of across-street depressions. The cement is poured on 
and leveled while wet, eliminating most such inequalities. 

In warmer weather, the seeming water in the little strips fre- 
quently spreads until it covers the whole street, gutter to gutter, 
for several blocks. At about a hundred yards only the normal strips 
will be seen ; then at approximately double that distance, the spread 
area will begin. This will occur only where there are already 
strips — never, in my experience, in other areas of the pavement. It 
is evident that the angle of refraction for the responsible air lenses 
is only half as great for the spread area as it is for the strips. 

In the spring of 1959 use of 7 X 50 binoculars in the study brought 
added information on the makeup and behavior of these street 
mirages. Kneeling or sitting, to meet the light path lower down, 
one may cut the observing distance from them in half. The mirage 
itself, of course, gives us the shape and size of the air lens. In 
effect, the transmitted light colors the air forming the lens much as 
a stain brings out the details of a microscope slide. One might 
almost get the effect of looking at the mirage through a microscope. 

Particular attention is called to a study made early in June of one 
of the spread areas. The nearer strips of seeming water were in 
evidence, but the larger mirage covering the street from gutter to 
gutter and extending, with some breaks, for about three blocks was 
most interesting. A brisk south wind, 12 to 15 m.p.h., was blow- 
ing across the street. Street surface was asphalt about 35 feet wide 
with cement gutters 18 inches wide. The spread-area mirage and 
the air lens that caused it had irregular across-the-street boundaries 
but sharp lateral ones. On both sides, as it reached the line between 



MIRAGES — GORDON 333 

the asphalt street surface and the cement guter, it stopped short. 
The air forming the lens was colored by the transmitted light so as 
to be clearly visible. The lens seemed to be formed of a scurrying, 
shimmering blue blanket of heat waves about 2 inches thick. In 
the brisk wind the air forming the lens must have been changed 
every 3 or 4 seconds. Moving across the south cement-asphalt 
dividing line, it became instantly visible, a part of the functioning, 
mirage-forming lens, passed out of it, and vanished at the north 
line. Cars and trucks passing through it in a steady stream had no 
visible effect ; there seemed to be no piling up against the windward 
side of tires. The lens arched up over the crown of the road, fully 
a foot higher than the gutter. 

What mysterious force within that lens maintained it as a func- 
tioning entity amid all those disruptive forces? It was composed 
of air that was changed every few seconds, surrounded by air except 
where it rested on the ground, and yet it was completely set apart, 
doing things the surrounding air could not do until it moved into 
the lens, and could no longer do the second it moved out. The 
assumption of the mirage-making power the instant the air crossed 
the south cement-asphalt line was something to see and wonder at. 

Earlier in this paper reference was made to the two laws most 
deeply involved in mirage making and their two rather mysterious 
junior partners. One of these two junior partners would seem to 
be concerned with the forces that set the lens apart and keep it that 
way; the other with the need to select the location in which a lens 
will operate. How they carry out these functions we do not yet 
know. Because of the wind, the effects shown in this mirage were 
almost miraculous, but its lessons were borne out in other locations. 

There is an almost comic side to these hard-fighting, long-lasting 
street mirages — they cannot stand competition from real water. A 
brisk shower or even a sprinkling cart can bring an end to them in 
seconds. 

At this point it is well to consider the extreme contrast between 
what we have been watching and the lenses that operate for only 
a fleeting moment to give us the filmiest of pictures, sometimes recur- 
ring, sometimes not. In my experience these momentary showings 
are not common. My most impressive example was the appearance 
of a great towering block of mesa, seeming quite near, reaching 
much above my little watchtower hill, completely unreal, without 
substance, and yet easily seen. It probably lasted more than a 
minute. It was impossible to say what real object might have been 
so distorted. 

Related to the little mirages in particular, but having also to do 
with mirages in general, is the following fairly typical case. At a 
distance of 200 yards or more the seeming water will appear and will 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

remain in sight for about a hundred yards of approach, then vanish. 
At 200 yards, with eyes 6 feet from the ground, the total change in 
direction of the light path would be about 1°, at 100 yards around 
2°, giving a tolerance of about 1° through which refraction operates. 
Two degrees is probably the maximum bending found in nature as 
produced by an air lens. It seems probable that the minhnum bend- 
ing effective in mirage making is well under one-quarter of a degree. 
The bending potential of one of these small in-the-road lenses depends 
on its great density change within a shallow depth. It must have 
that to contain its direction-change arc within its small diameter. 
The same bending capacity might be found in a much larger lens 
where the same density change is spread over many feet, instead of a 
few inches, and where the direction-change arc has a possible length 
of miles. 

For classic mirage effects, no other location can equal an old dry 
lake or sea bed. Bets have been won and lost over the reality or 
unreality of what seems to be a beautiful body of water often reflecting 
the nearby trees and hills. Sometimes, even in dry country, it is 
real water that complicates the betting. From a little distance it is 
indeed difficult to tell real water from a mirage. The seeming lakes 
vary greatly in size, from perhaps an acre to many square miles. The 
small mirages have a decided prejudice against operating over ground 
surfaces. The larger mirages are particular — just any gromid will 
not do — but an old, level-floored lake bed or sea bed fills the bill 
beautifully. It has been my experience that the angle of refraction 
of these larger mirages is much flatter than that of the small ones, 
so that they must be viewed from a greater distance. Willcox Dry 
Lake bed mirages in southeastern Arizona are an illustration of this. 
With some 50 square miles of almost completely flat surface, the bed 
offers very frequent showings. Easily seen from the highway, it is 
as worthy of a stop as many of the beautiful real lakes. It is an 
experience to remember to see the great dry lake bed of early morn- 
ing give away to the seeming beautiful blue Avater with changing 
lights and shadows through the day, and a fading out toward evening. 
Many of the mirage lakes not only show reflections of nearby trees 
and hills, but have islands, capes, and bold headlands, even very real- 
looking sliips sometimes, and, rarely, a shimmering white city on the 
far shore. These mirage eftects can stand quite a bit of wind. Rip- 
pling effects are not uncommon, and I have had reports of waves 
seeming to be breaking on the shore. A railroad trainman told me 
of having his train seemingly isolated on an island, wheels of the rear 
cars deep in the mirage water. There have been reports of planes 
coming down to land on some of these lakes, specifically one south of 
Las Vegas, Nev., and of flocks of ducks sweeping over for the same 



MIRAGES — GORDON 335 

purpose. Stockmen tell me that a mirage may fool men and ducks but 
never stock. It just does not smell like water, and cattle refuse to be 
interested, even if very thirsty. 

A rather infrequent activity of the No. 1 lens is far removed from 
making water seem to be where there is none. In its role of making an 
object seem to be lower than it is, it sometimes makes a mountain range 
low on the horizon seem to drop out of sight. Since the range is, with 
the effect of distance, already very little above lens level, light from it 
would have difficulty entering the top of the lens unless it should be 
on a slope dropping away from the observer. In that case, the light 
path could be turned up to pass over the head of the observer, or if 
there were no slope, light could enter the far side of the lens and be 
turned up with the same result. 

Is it possible that this might be in conflict with the celestial mirage 
effect which makes sun and moon and stars seem to be higher above 
the horizon than they are, if the sun, for instance, were setting behind 
that particular range? 

Mention has been made of the three widely different activities of the 
No. 2 lens. Names in the modern mamier have been chosen to identify 
these activities: Operation Liftup, Operation Distortion, and Opera- 
tion Long Distance. 

Normally, temperature and density of the air decrease steadily with 
elevation. Under such conditions neither No. 1 nor No. 2 lenses could 
be formed. As we have seen, a superheated ground surface raising the 
temperature of the air immediately above it reverses the density trend 
and we got a No. 1 lens. Over a cold ground surface, and frequently 
aloft in the atmosphere, the temperature trend is reversed, stepping up 
the rate of density decrease. Sometimes, and in certain locations, this 
abnormally steep density gradient will result in the formation of a 
mirage-forming air lens. 

OPERATION LIFTUP 

For Operation Liftup, such a lens may be formed over the cold 
ground surface of a ridge about midway between, and higher than, 
the object and the observer. Based on the ground, it will be, in effect, 
saddled over the ridge, and light can not reach it from below, as 
shown in the diagram. Apparently instead, light enters the object 
side of the lens, follows its cui-ve over the ridge, and escapes the 
opposite side to pass down the slope to the obsei-ver. This lens can 
pick up the image of a house or a town or a mountain range hidden 
behind the ridge and lift it into sight. Within my experience and 
judged from evidence from the many stories I have heard, it invariably 
turns out a clear, sharp picture, without distortion. A friend told me 
of seeing, as a boy, a neighbor's house over the ridge lifted into sight so 
clearly that he could recognize the children playing about. In the 

536608 — 60 23 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Imperial Valley one of the watermasters told me he had twice seen 
trains puffing along in the sky, lifted into sight over the massive bulk 
of the sandhills. From a ranch house on the edge of the mesa some 
20 miles south of Yuma, the owner frequently sees the little town of 
San Luis across the border in Mexico, which normally is not visible, 
lifted into sight, together with its highway and speeding cars. A 
ridge east of the New Yuma Hospital normally hides homes and 
ranches beyond it. Two or three times a year, on the average, they 
are lifted into sight. In eastern Colorado rolling hill country, ranchers 
frequently see on still mornings homes and farms as much as 20 miles 
away. The picture is lifted up, into sight, but not otherwise changed. 

In the mirages studied so far, we knew where the lenses were — in 
the street, dry lake bed, or on the ridge — and could go to them, take 
their temperatures, etc. In our study of other types, that advantage 
is lacking. Their lenses are in the temperature inversion layer aloft, 
a few feet to several thousand feet above the ground, well out of reach. 
Balloon-carried instruments giving temperature, humidity, and pres- 
sure are sent up four times a day from many places over the world, 
frequently passing through these layers, but their data, as bearing on 
temperature inversion layers, have not been tabulated. As far as 
known, no balloon run has been made up through a mirage- forming 
layer to give us a definite picture there. These layers are commonplace 
over all parts of the world, almost as much so as clouds, and as tran- 
sient. We know that the amount of the inversion varies greatly, as 
does the thickness of the layer and its area. From the mirage itself 
we may draw certain conclusions. For the building up of a certain 
effect, the lens and its sustaining layer must have certain qualifications. 
It seems probable that much less than a tenth of 1 percent of the in- 
version layers ever become mirage forming, and so it is evident that 
this is one of their minor activities. 

Aloft, as over the asphalt pavement, the lens picks its location 
carefully, and having picked it, uses it over and over again. It is 
evident that in all cases, the terrain, including the surface over which 
the lens is to form, is of the greatest importance. The mirage will 
come into being because, at the proper place between object and 
observer, the terrain makes possible the formation of an effective air 
lens, on the ground or aloft. Of course the weather must cooperate. 

OPERATION DISTORTION 

Operation Distortion, carried on in some particular temperature- 
inversion layer aloft, functions to make some object or scene look as 
it does not. The primary effect it achieves is a stretching up. This 
may be followed by a lateral stretching, mostly internal, as between 
the stretched-up parts of the object or scene — houses in a town, hills 



MIRAGES — GORDON 337 

or mountains in a group, etc. There may be also a lifting of the 
whole distorted object or scene. Oddly enough, these operations are 
carried out mostly over water surfaces not far from shore and over 
near-desert areas. Examples are the famed Fata Morgana over the 
Straits of Messina, similar effects off the northern Japanese Islands, 
off our New England coast, over the Great Lakes, off the California 
coast near Santa Barbara, and so on. The desert country, too, spe- 
cializes in them ; that is where I have seen them. They may be very 
near. A man crossing a field may develop stiltlike legs, freight cars 
on a siding may seem to stretch up to more than double height, a row 
of trees may stretch far up. Then there are a wide variety of forms 
of great complexity. 

Mirages are definitely not photogenic. To the eye and through 
binoculars they often look substantial enough, but I have repeatedly 
seen the mirage image of a distant mountain through the image of a 
nearer one, which lack of substance perhaps the camera recognizes. 
Distance to the mirage is often great enough to be a photographic 
problem. Probably the best explanation of the almost complete 
absence of mirage pictures is the infuriating fact that on the rare 
occasions when a good picture might be had, one never has his camera 
and there is not time to get it. 

Lacking photographs, I have drawn a number of silhouettes to 
show some of the mirage forms and processes occurring in the desert. 
Between object and observer and evidently essential for the formation 
of the temperature-inversion layer which must supply the huge air 
lens needed, there must be a large area of approximately flat land, 
frequently many square miles in size. This may be drawn in, in your 
imagination. 

In the mirage known as Flattop (fig. 2), elevation of the highest 
hill in the group, for reasons not known, always seems to establish 
the height of the whole structure. The lesser ones build up to that 
height. The building process may stop at any point and reverse 
itself, sometimes for a fresh start, sometimes to end the show for the 
day. It is an amazingly deliberate and systematic operation, pro- 
ceeding to follow the pattern exactly, time after time, year after year, 
in this place and others. Apparently depending on the lay of the 
land between object and observer, there are probably half a dozen 
or more variations on this general procedure, but none of those varia- 
tions forms a flattop. 

Such a full development as the drawings show may come about in 
perhaps 15 to 30 minutes. The completed picture never appears 
suddenly. The image must be built up according to rule and removed 
the same way. 

Watch, if you will, how it grows. From the lower liills, perhaps 
no more than a knob on the horizon, a feeler reaches up to the height 



338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 





No.3. 



No.lj. 



No. 5. 



Figure 2. — Formation of the Flattop mirage by stages. No. 1, Normal skyline; No. 2, 
feelers reach up to height of highest peak, and having reached it, flatten out; No. 3, 
steamers extend from flattened tops until they meet, also from end hills; No. 4, windows 
formed filling in; No. 5, windows completely filled giving a seeming flattop mesa replacing 
old skyline. About 75 percent of these mirages stop development between stages 3 and 
4. Unmaking exactly reverses routine of building. 

of the highest peak. Touching it, as though reaching a ceiling, the 
top flattens out. From the flattened tops streamers reach out until 
they meet others from right and left. The openings or windows 
thus formed fill in slowly, from all sides, like the diaphragm of a 
camera, until the window is closed and we have a seeming flattened 
mesa in place of the old irregular skyline. Streamers have also 
reached out from the end hill masses for perhaps a mile or two. Sec- 
tions of these streamers may lose contact with their base and join up 
again or, more rarely, persist by themselves after the parent mirage 
has ceased to be. In the mesa face, windows may appear and fill in 
again; the display is not static. Finally, usually within an hour, 
windows appear and grow, the streamers and flattened tops draw 
back, the feelers fade away, and we have our group of broken hills 
again. 

This building and unbuilding of the mirage must be the result of 
progressive buildup and breakdown in the temperature-inversion 
layer and in the air lens it creates. At some point in this develop- 
ment the lens becomes capable of producing the effect of feelers 



MIRAGES GORDON 339 

reaching up to a common level ; next comes the effect of feeler tops 
flattening out and extending to meet others to form windows, and 
then to fill in the windows. The completed flattop seems to be a 
climax, the highest point of development the mversion layer and lens 
can reach. In the mibuilding, these steps are reversed. The mirage 
has furnished us with some idea of what has been going on in the 
lens and has made it visible, somewhat as the colored algae in Yel- 
lowstone Park outline the course of each little stream in the brook. 

The Flattop seen some 35 miles southeast from Yuma is a late 
starter, rarely seen before 7 :30 a.m. As a rule, about sunrise is the 
best time to see such mirages. 

A very unusual development of this Flattop building technique was 
observed at Naco, in southeastern Arizona, one morning in the late 
winter of 1916-17. Five or six miles to the east is a barren, sawtooth 
line of hills, rising perhaps 250 to 300 feet. A bit before sunrise rising 
feelers were noted on those hills, followed by the usual routine; tops 
of feelers flattened out, streamers met, and windows filled in, to form 
a flattop. Out of this was built up again the jagged skyline which de- 
veloped into a second flattop, and a third story was built on top of 
that. Two or three minutes later, the unbuilding began, imhurriedly, 
following the rules exactly, top story, second, and finally superstruc- 
ture of the first, to leave only the bleak, dark profile of the hills. All 
this, fitted in between setting-up exercises and breakfast call, was 
observed by hundreds of men of the First Arizona Infantry and others 
of the 10th U.S. Cavalry, camped next to us, on border duty following 
Villa's raid on Colmnbus. 

In this case, evidence offered by the mirage points to the fantastic 
conclusion that there were three nearly identical temperature-inver- 
sion layers cooperating with beautiful precision. When the lens of 
the first reached its climax, the lens of the second took over, and the 
third after that, and they worked the same way with the unbuilding. 
The inversion layers may have formed some little distance apart at 
slightly different levels and drifted together; this is by no means im- 
possible to imagine. Use of lenses in these layers to do the building 
and mibuilding is however, quite beyond our imaginmg, as are many 
of the phenomena in Operation Distortion. This three-story effect is 
completely without precedent in my collection of mirage lore. Of the 
watching company, a good proportion of them ranchers, cowboys, 
prospectors, outdoor men, no one I talked to had seen anything of 
the sort before. 

I understand that in certain recent atmospheric studies radiosonde 
equipment was sent up by a captive balloon to work at any desired 
level and send back much fuller information on that level than a 
regular run could provide. It would be most interesting to make such 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

a study of what goes on in some of our mirage- forming layers, pro- 
vided we knew where the layer was and further provided that very 
light winds cooperated to let the balloon and instruments stay where 
wanted. 

The second distortion pattern shown, the Portal Mirage (fig. 3), is 
a much less formal one and, in my experience, much less frequent. It 
may appear quite suddenly. Its invariable habit of leaving passage- 
ways between the built-up hill masses is characteristic and suggests the 
name. It is not flattopped and does not send out streamers. The 
normal hill profile seems rather to be lifted and partially flattened 
out. Its height, in the same group of hills as Flattop, differed very 
little. In a recently observed case, the area of the temperature-in- 
version layer, at least the effective part of it for mirage building, 
must have been quite small and moving. Buildup started at the west 
end of the line of hills and moved eastward, building as it went. Be- 
fore the east end of the line had been reached, westernmost hills were 
back in normal shape. It causes one to wonder why, once or twice a 
season perhaps, the Flattop routine is interrupted for a day by this 
pattern. 



Figure 3. — ^The Portal mirage. This is a considerably less common form than Flattop, 
in the writer's experience, but based on the same group of hills. Its behavior is much 
more informal than Flattop's, often much more hurried in the makmg and unmaking. 
Streamers do not seem to be any part of its pattern. It seems to keep some of the skyline 
of the hill, considerably flattened and lifted. It has the invariable habit of leaving pas- 
sageways between the hill masses, hence its name. 

A very different type of distortion was observed from my lookout 
hill in the early spring of 1951. Some 75 or 80 miles to the south- 
east, across the broad delta plain of the Colorado Kiver, rises the 
Cocopah Range some 1,800 to 3,000 feet high with skyline only gently 
irregular, with no noticeable peak. On this particular morning, less 
than an hour after sunrise, the sky was heavily overcast with alto- 
stratus clouds, making it an miusually dark morning for tliis desert 
country. Well off to the southwest there must have been a break 
in the clouds, not showing, but letting a shaft of sunlight through. 
The mirage makers had been really busy. It looked as if they had 
scraped together all the material in the 50-mile-long Cocopah Range 
and piled it up into a gi-eat Fujiyama-like peak well over twice as 
high as the range itself. The shaft of sunlight spotlighted this 
mountain and it shone splendidly, like a \dsion, the only bright spot 
in a dark and gloomy world. I watched it for 10 or 15 minutes 
through binoculars. The range to right and left was completely 
blotted out, as if a dirty whitewash brush had been drawn through 
that part of the picture. In spite of the distance, such brightness 



MIRAGES — GORDON 



341 



should show in a picture, so I hurried down for my camera, but got 
back too late. 

Normally Operation Distortion changes the base of the object very 
little, often not at all. Here the length of base of the mountain was 
not more than one-third that of the range, something I have not 
seen in any other distortion mirage. It is possible that the Cocopah 
Kange was not the object of the mirage at all. There is, a few miles 
nearer, and in the same general direction, an isolated rocky hill known 
as Volcano Butte, not much over 300 feet high as remembered, not 
normally seen even with binoculars. It may have been the object 
which became a great shining peak. In any event, it was a beautiful 
show, magnificently staged. 

More recently, from the same spot, a slightly similar buildup of 
Picacho Peak was observed. In this case, only the upper portion of 
the object was involved; the lower part and adjoining hills were not 
changed. My drawing (fig. 4) attempts to give an idea of the dis- 
tortion brought about. The shining whiteness of the extended por- 
tion with the sunlight on it was reminescent of the Fujiyama-like 
mountain. Radiosonde reports that morning from the Yuma Test 
Station, some 10 miles east, showed a weak temperature-inversion 





Figure 4. — The Picacho Mirage. Upper: The normal skyline of Picacho Peak, a pre- 
cipitous rock mass which rises to an elevation near 2,000 feet, 20 miles north of Yuma, 
Ariz., one of the annual climbs of California's Sierra Club. The famous Picacho Mine 
was near its east base. Lower: The mirage of Picacho Peak observed about 8:30 a.m., 
February 20, 1958. The skyward extension was an estimated 600 to 700 feet. Most 
of the extended portion was shining white. The appearance lasted more than half an 
hour with little change except for a drifting band of stratus clouds which hid the central 
portion of the peak much of the time. 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

layer at about 1,800 feet. To cause this mirage, the layer between 
Picacho and Yuma must have been fairly strong, with the elevation 
well over 2,000 feet. 

It has been my observation that "mirage showmen" are very partial 
toward the No. 2 lenses for morning exhibitions and No. 1 for after- 
noon displays. Generally, too, a brisk wind is unfavorable for forma- 
tion of a mirage-making lens aloft, having a decided mixing effect. 
But there are exceptions. One particular production was staged 
about midafternoon in a brisk 12- to 15-mile-an-hour wind. Scattered 
desert brush and scrub trees had been assembled and lined up with 
looming effect to look like a row of trees, as though along a fence 
or road, 25 to 30 feet high. Looming trees are not unusual, but the 
scattered, scrubby material the mirage makers had to work with was 
exceptional. It was a nice-looking row of trees. As an added fea- 
ture, the lively east wind snatched the west end of the row, two or 
three trees, and whirled it away 30 to 40 yards where it disappeared 
in complete fragmentation and instantly reappeared back where it 
belonged in the row. This happened over and over again as long 
as we watched. It reminds one of the lens in the road, steadfast in 
the wind and hurrying traffic. I have had other reports of wind 
disturbance by No. 1 lenses, but this is the only case I know of for a 
No. 2. 

The following example defies classification : Just across the United 
States-Mexico boundary in Baja California there used to be a shallow 
salt lake known as Laguna Salada nearly filling a valley between 
the Coast Range and Cocopah Mountains. It had long been fed, 
through its southern end, by high tides from the Gulf of California 
and overflow from the Colorado River at times of flood, helped by 
some mountain runoff. A shift of the river channel following a 
break into the Salton Sea in 1904 silted up the entrance, and the 
lake slowly dried up in spite of local runoff. Visiting Laguna Salada 
in 1925, we topped the pass south of Signal Mountain to get an excel- 
lent view of the lake bed, dry and dazzling white except out toward 
the center where there was a little blue body of water. Water is 
almost always an appealing sight in our desert country, so we drove 
to the north end of the Laguna, walked down a gently sloping beach 
littered with seaweed and shells, then dropped steeply 7 or 8 feet 
to the level floor, intending to walk out. But from there no lake 
was visible — some strips of what was evidently mirage water in the 
distance but nothing that looked like real water. Apparently we had 
been well fooled. Climbing out, there was our lake again. As we 
walked south along the ridge it was still visible from the pass in the 
same place and of the same size and shape. Studying it with binocu- 
lars, we could see no sign of ripples, but it looked very real. So I left 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Gordon 



Plate 1 




1. The writer watching mirage on Black Hill, observation point from which Cocopah and 

Picacho mirages were seen. 




2. 'i'his is one of the walcr-in-thc-roaJ mirages. The photograph was taken in Yuma, Ariz, 
by the writer in June 1959. There is absolutely no water In the street. 



MIRAGES — GORDON 343 

the others, scrambled down to the shore with the lake still in sight, 
dropped down to the lake floor — and there was no lake ! I walked out 
toward where it had seemed to be. The surface was a thin coating 
of white with black alkali underneath, which kept getting softer. 
I must have gone well over a mile and was sinking over my shoetops 
at every step. The white surface stretched away ahead without a 
break as far as I could see, so I turned back. From the ridge we 
could follow my footsteps, black against the white surface, ending less 
than a hundred yards from the real lake. 

A few hours later we were telling the story to Imperial Irrigation 
engineers in Calexico. Their comment was, "Of course it was water. 
People go down there to swim." A few months later I saw our lake 
from the air. This is rather a reversal of the usual mirage story of 
seeing water where there was none. We were unable to see water 
where there was some. 

OPERATION LONG DISTANCE 

The mirages of Operation Long Distance are the best remembered 
and the most difficult to explain. It seems best to establish a back- 
ground of what they do ; later we can start trying to explain how they 
do it. Their job is to make an object seem to be where it is not — not 
just lifted a little way into the air, but moved a few or many miles 
away. 

In a small Maryland town only one mirage seems to have been seen 
in nearly a hundred years, but that one is remembered. It sliowed 
a city in the sky, a city of domed roofs — foreign looking, not at all 
American. Judging from appearances, it would seem to have started 
on its long journey from North Africa or one of the eastern Mediter- 
ranean countries. Reaching back fully 75 years is the story of a 
mirage seen not too infrequently over the Palomas Plain, about mid- 
way between Yuma and Phoenix. It has long been known as the 
mirage of a Mexican city with no attempt to identify it. In 1920 the 
station master at Baghdad on the Santa Fe Railroad some 60 miles 
east of San Bernardino told me of mirages seen over a dry lake bed 
south of the station. He had seen them several times. According to 
some of the watchers it was the modest city of San Jose, Calif., 500 
miles and half a dozen mountain ranges away. Recently an Army 
sergeant called to tell me of a mirage he had seen some 40 miles north- 
east of Yuma showing a city set up in the desert close to the head 
of our rugged Castle Dome range. He watched it carefully for 
more than 20 minutes and was sure he could recognize buildings 
that would identify it as San Francisco, even farther away. He 
said it seemed about 4 miles distant. San Diego seems especially 
well situated for Operation Long Distance. From two quite lim- 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

ited areas near Yuma, some 20 miles apart, mirages showing the 
city of San Diego and its harbor have been reported several times, 
but not from both places at the same time. Approximately the 
same picture has been reported in Quartzite, 90 miles north, 
and from Long Beach, 100 miles up the coast from San Diego. 
All these city images are set up very low, not much above ground level. 
There have been mirage showings of ships too, always, for some rea- 
son, set well up in the sky. In no case here over tlie desert have in- 
verted images been shown. Wliile cities and ships seem to be favorite 
subjects, others are sometimes shown. From a service station in 
California west of Yuma, motorists reported the appearance of moun- 
tain scenery, pine trees, shrubery, all complete, seemingly less than 
half a mile distant, set up right out in the desert. 

Operation Long Distance is not confined to the desert. The Los 
Angeles Times, some 20 years ago, imder a Santa Barbara date line, 
told of a mirage that brought a settlement on one of the Channel 
Islands, about 30 miles distant, so close to shore that houses could be 
recognized and boats seen moving about in the little bay. At St. 
Albans, W. Va., about 1914, a group of young people were on a hill 
near the schoolhouse after dark. They noticed a glow in the slcy, 
watched it become the picture of a city on fire, could see the firefighting 
equipment, the flames, roofs and walls falling in, and people rushing 
about or standing watching. Next day they learned that the fire had 
been in Ashland, Ky., about 40 miles away. A friend, who had spent 
his younger years in North Dakota and thereabouts and had traveled 
a good deal, said that the only objects the mirage makers seemed 
interested in in that part of the country were grain elevators. They 
were seen many times, well up in the sky, and always upside down. 
Many of us may remember accoimts of polar explorers who saw 
rescue ships in the sky several days before their arrival. 

A well- vouched story relates that an airplane pilot was flying in the 
Yuma area at about 3,000 feet, when quite suddenly he saw directly 
ahead a Navy ship, so close he could identify it and see the bow wave. 
A check, I was told, showed that the identification was correct and 
that the ship was sailing oS San Diego at the time. Even if the pilot 
had been interested in mirages, I suppose he would have turned oS his 
collision course instinctively, and lost sight of the ship in seconds, but 
it would have been tremendously interesting if he had crashed through 
the mirage picture to find what he would see on the other side. 

Sometimes both erect and inverted images are seen, the erect one 
higher in the sky. 

A great deal of material has been published on what Operation 
Long Distance does, but no article of my reading had even attempted 
to tell liow it is done. This is not a matter of one problem but of 
many, the most impressive being, doubtless, that of transportation. 



MIRAGES — GORDON 345 

How is energy, in the form of the light carrying the picture or image, 
conveyed through the atmosphere for great distances with no apparent 
loss of potential ? The city or ship that looms so large has not been 
magnified by any telescopic effect. As nearly as we may judge, it 
simply failed to get smaller with distance as one would expect accord- 
ing to the laws of physics. Its light power faded little if any, which 
seems to present an irrational situation. That is what will need to be 
explained. Two rather fantastic suggestions are offered, very tenta- 
tively. One is that there may be channels of no resistance in the atmos- 
phere along which such a shaft of light may travel intact, without 
dissipation. I am told that the Navy has trouble with radar beams 
being deflected from a straight course, probably by atmospheric con- 
ditions as occurs with light beams ; also that radar beams seem some- 
times to find channels of no resistance and reach many times their 
normal range. We know that radiobroadcasts will sometimes be 
heard at amazing distances, possibly by boimcing from layers in the 
upper atmosphere or, it is possible, by finding a channel of no resist- 
ance. The other suggestion may seem no more realistic. Is it possible 
that a shaft of light, perhaps traveling in parallel beams, might be so 
compacted by a cohesive force, like the lens in the road, that there is 
no dispersion? In either case the paths would run approximately 
parallel with the earth's surface. Neither suggestion takes into 
account the inverted image unless it may be formed by secondary 
refractive action. 

As a basis for either one of these suggested possible explanations, 
some form of No. 2 lens must be presupposed which would be able to 
pick up the picture and put it into a roughly horizontal course instead 
of returning it to earth as is the more usual procedure. Apparently 
it would travel in such a course or channel until it struck a second 
No. 2 lens where refraction should turn it down to the observer or 
observation area. This explanation would call for the refracting air 
lenses to be a few hundred to several thousand feet above the ground 
near the point where the mirage is to be seen. Why city mirages are so 
much lower than those of ships is far from clear, but this seems to be 
true over the desert country. 

Just what is it we see when we look at a mirage ? lief erring back 
to the No. 1 lens, we seem to see water in the road or dry lake bed. 
The picture or image is in effect projected on the air lens much as a 
picture in the theater is projected on the screen. The mirage is just 
as far avray as the lens is. This is not true, however, for the Opera- 
tions Liftup and Distortion, The mirages turned out by both of these 
types of lens activity appear to be at their true distances, but lifted 
up, or lifted and distorted. We get no impression of the location of 
the lens at all. But for Operation Long Distance we go back to the 
No, 1 lens type of procedure. Location of the second lens is the loca- 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

tion of the image or picture. I have a strong impression that on 
leaving the second lens the light shaft carrying the picture is no 
longer in any channel of no resistance. Its path is apparently a 
slender funnel set up by the angle of refraction. Loss of light power 
and size of image would seem to be proportionately less than if the 
picture were broadcasted, as from a picture screen. 

A ship in the sky may show us such a projection. Tlie pilot who 
found himself running head-on toward a Navy ship at an elevation of 
3,000 feet may have been just cutting into the light beam of the mirage 
close to the lens. 

In the case of the repeatedly seen mirages of the city of San Diego, 
the image is picked up at sea level, carried over a 4,000-foot-high 
mountain mass, and brought down again to near sea level some 150 
miles away. Elevation and location of the first lens are unknown; 
those of the second lens may be guessed at, although not too accurately. 

Two of my Operation Long Distance mirage stories fail to fit in 
with the explanation offered. Reports of both the San Jose and San 
Francisco mirages place the observer between the object and the mi- 
rage, seeming to call for something like total reflection. In most other 
cases in all classifications, the mirage is shown between object and 
observer, where it would appear to belong. Either the observers were 
mistaken in identifying these two cities, or we have another unsolved 
problem. Perhaps under the same problem classification belongs the 
apparently reliable story told me by a man living some 12 miles south 
of Yuma. He said he had repeatedly seen a clear mirage of the city 
at about the right distance to the east. 

CONCLUSION 

In conclusion, I should like to emphasize that in dealing with 
this fascinating subject of mirages, even statements of seeming fact 
have been based on a very limited amount of material, largely 
of my own gathering, for the more puzzling mirage forms are so 
rare that no one man is likely to have seen more than a few of 
them. The most valuable contribution that I could hope to make 
in presenting this nontechnical article, with its tentative sugges- 
tions as to the explanation of certain unusual types of mirages, is 
the stimulation of further investigation of the whole subject. 



Lessons From the History o£ Flight^ 



By Grover Loening 

Member, Advisory Board 
National Air Museum 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 7 plates] 



To DERIVE LESSONS from the history of flight, we must go much 
further than merely to list historical achievements. We must delve 
into a questionable hindsight area to find our mistaken trends — plunge 
into the jungle of misfits, false starts, and abandoned hopes — picking 
out on the way the waifs that we have lost and let them give us guid- 
ance more clearly to see the mistakes and omissions that we are, 
somewhat unthinkingly, engaged in today. 

At the outset of this study, let us limit ourselves to aircraft and 
their flying and to related aeronautics, and not get involved too much 
in the newer area of missiles and space. The latter fields have more 
strictly to do with artillery and astronautics, except for the brief 
time of takeoff and landing, and little to do with the air ocean as we 
know it. Space-missile astronautics has to do more precisely with 
ballistics in non-air-breathing media. 

The aircraft industry itself is almost unconsciously growing into 
an arsenal and artillery industry, and we can well pause and question 
whether the romance of the brilliant and exciting things that are 
being done in the space field are about to dull our realization that 
heavier-than-air aviation still is, and will be for a long time, a great 
field of human endeavor, of transportation business, and of military 
logistics activity on a huge scale. 

The growth of the U.S. air-transport industry from nothing in 
1920 to 24 billion passenger-miles in 1958 is merely a beginning. We 
will shortly progress into supersonic flying all over the world. 
Europe-in-an-hour, round-the-world-in-8-hours, are on the drafting 
board. In a few short years both fields, aircraft and space, will, how- 
ever, outgrow the present flurry of incorporating them into one pack- 



* The Lester D. Gardner Lecture, given originally at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, and given also at the Smithsonian Institution on May 18, 1959. 



347 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

age, and probably there will be a change of setup in which they will 
spin apart, in order not to retard or interfere with each other. 

There is, then, much left to do to perfect our utilization of the air 
ocean in which we live. Tolerable levels of noise, vibration, and 
acceleration must accompany supersonic flight. And greater safety ! 
These are all of utmost importance to our great air-transport develop- 
ment, but have little to do with space astronautics. 

Some clear and not too pleasant lessons are to be learned from a 
questioning and reflective perusal of the more than half a century 
in which we have developed our air travel, air logistics, and air 
road-to-everywhere usage. One of the most outstanding lessons that 
we see clearly in such a review is how often designers and constructors 
have failed to finish what was started. Owing too often to dis- 
couraging initial troubles and "bugs" — often added to by lack of 
foresight and interest on the part of the aircraft customers, military, 
industrial, and civilian — the continuity of effort for success frequently 
has died on the vine, with the result that needed and highly desirable 
developments that had been started were abandoned and lay dormant, 
only to be revived years later. 

Many a novel but highly significant development, idea, or sugges- 
tion has lain on our doorstep for years, unappreciated. Let us look 
at a few examples : 

WING STRUCTURE 

In America, where flying was born, the biplane type of flying 
machine dominated our efforts from the very start for almost 25 
years, despite the obvious success of the monoplane in France and 
the fundamental correctness of its aerodynamics. Today the mono- 
plane, strut braced or cantilever, has completely swept the field in 
all types and sizes, and the only biplanes left are occasionally seen 
towing an advertising sign or doing some crop dusting. 

The Junkers low- wing cantilever stressed-skin all-metal monoplane, 
after its 1920 development in Germany, was brought over to this 
country and promptly ignored. We recognized only vaguely a few 
years later that it was being used very successfully on the first great 
Western- world airline, Scadta (later Avianca), up and down the 
Magdalena Eiver in Colombia. Even in 1923, when the Loening 
amphibian was being developed, we had to abandon the monoplane 
temporarily in order to sell our design to reluctant aviators by making 
them feel at home in a DH-4-type biplane wing. Through the rest 
of its life this airplane was 200 pounds heavier and 15 m.p.h. slower 
than if it had been a monoplane. 

It was not until William Stout developed the Ford planes some 
years later that we moved seriously into the stressed-skin metal mono- 
plane structure. Fokker, during these early twenties, also chose the 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 349 

cantilever stressed-skin monoplane, but used plywood covering, which 
could not take the weather, 

LANDING GEARS 

In earlier years, landing gears had skids to which wheels were 
added, but the skids were the cause of many wrecks when they broke 
on hard landings. From the very beginning, wheels alone were 
obviously correct. In Europe, Bleriot, and m America, Curtiss, were 
alone in realizing this, and in the case of Curtiss we must recognize 
that the practical three-wheel gear was constantly being demon- 
strated as successful and correct by the early Curtiss planes, but 
practically no one else saw this. Even Curtiss gave it up about 1915. 
The advantage of being able to land and take off in a cross wind was 
lost. And yet some 35 years later the three-wheel gear with level 
fuselage configuration came back into practically worldwide usage. 
Brakes on wheels were suggested at an early date, but the majority 
of the air industry scoffed at the idea because to them it was only 
too obvious that applying the brakes too strongly Avould turn the 
plane over. So a few feeble braking features were used on tail skids. 

Then came the question of retractable landing gears. The desirabil- 
ity of these should have been obvious at the earliest date at which we 
reached 100 miles per hour, which was in 1912. But history shows that 
it was the advent of the successful amphibian plane (which had to 
have its landing gear foldable) that taught the lesson that retracting 
a landing gear and housing it were neither too complicated nor too 
heavy. There had been several successful landplanes with folding 
gear, notably the Verville monoplane of 1922. Nevertheless, it was 
some 6 or 8 years before retractable gears came into more general use. 

PROPELLERS 

Variable-pitch propellers were suggested at an early date — a prac- 
tical one by Hamilton in the twenties — but it took 8 or 10 years for 
these to come into wide and general use. Incidentally, even the advent 
of the metal propeller so competently developed by Sylvanus Eeed, 
after solving forging difficulties, took far too much time for 
acceptance. 

ENGINE PLACEMENT 

On the early configurations in America, engines were to the side of, 
or behind, the aviator. In the case of the original Wright design, the 
translating of 12 horsepower into effective enough thrust to fly 750 
pounds required the two large geared-down propellers — and, in fact, 
this was one of the secrets of the Wrights' success. As more powerful 
engines came along, such as Curtiss's motorcycle engine, the gearing 
down was not needed, but the engines remained behind the pilot. 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

It is curious that this arrangement should have persisted in this 
country, when in France the great early pioneers, Bleriot and others, 
from the start had tractor-type monoplanes, although some other 
earlier constructors like Farman and Voisin also used pushers. But 
the tractor type in France was more numerous, in the Santos-Dumont 
"Demoiselle," the Nieuport, and the Breguet, Ferber, and Goupy 
biplanes. 

In this country, it was not until 1913 that we saw the Burgess tractor 
with Renault motor, the Glenn Martin Model TT, and the Curtiss N 
w^hich later became the ubiquitous JN-4 (the Curtiss Jenny). So, as 
far as the general industry is concerned, we see that we here lagged 4 
or 5 years behind in adopting the tractor-type airplane which was to 
become practically universal as a landplane, even when later developed 
into multimotor models. 

ENCLOSED BODIES 

Safety in crashes was naturally the outstanding reason for the 
adoption of the tractor type. In the early planes, when they were in 
the 40-mile-per-hour category, the seats were not enclosed. The advent 
of the fuselage with enclosed seating was stimulated, of course, by the 
use of the tractor engine. But it is remarkable to note that the obvious 
further streamlining and closing in of the fuselage lagged for a few 
years. Nieuport, in his remarkable and revolutionary little mono- 
plane of 1910 which swept the field in competitive performance, prac- 
tically started this vogue. But the enclosure of the aviators themselves 
in a cabin was very slow in coming, and it was not until some 10 or 15 
years later that the majority of the aviators, including the military, 
discovered that they need not have their heads out in the open air in 
order to fly, and permitted their definite prejudices against closed 
cabins to give way to the comforts that became immediately evident. 

HIGH-LIFT DEVICES 

Flaps and slots to slow down landing speeds, or rather to permit 
higher cruising speeds and heavier loads without too great a landing 
penalty, also lagged for a long time — much too long. Handley-Page 
and Lachmann in Europe and Orville Wright in this country were 
investigating these high-lift aids in the twenties. In fact, it is not 
generally known that Orville Wright in 1923 patented the split flap. 
By 1926 Handley-Page slots had been applied to the British *'Moth" 
plane with great success, and the first such "Moth" to be imported to 
this country was brought in by the present writer and flown by him 
widely in the east. Still, a great many airplanes were being built, 
developed, and accepted with no thought of high-lift devices, although 
some work was being done, notably by Harlan Fowler, on these addi- 
tions to wing structures. Then, in 1929, was held the Guggenheim 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Loening 



Plate 1 



© 




B 



® 






TYPICAL EARLY BIPLANES 
1, Wright brothers' "Kitty Hawk" biplane, the world's first successful powered and 
controlled man-carrying airplane, 1903; 2, Curtiss biplane with pusher engine, 
1908-1916, showing classical landing gear to come into wide use 30 years later; 
3, Douglas World Cruiser, typical tractor biplane, 1924; 4, Loening amphibian 
biplane. Pan American flight, 1926-27. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — ^Loening 



PLATE 2 






J.AXUIXG Gl'. \R> 
1, Martin-TT, tractor training plane, 1915, showing cumbersome landing gear with 
extra wheels and skids; 2, Curtiss JN4 ("Jenny") training plane, 1918, showing 
simple 2-wheel landing gear which later came into world-wide use; 3, Douglas 
DC-7B of 1955, showing classical gear-level aircraft position used widely on modern 
air transport planes. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Loening 



PLATE 3 






ENGINE PLACEMENT 

1, Wright biplane, Fort Myer, Va., 1908, showing engine mounted on wing to the side 
of the aviator; 2, Bleriot monoplane of 1909, with tractor (in front) motor position. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Loening 



Plate 4 





ENGINE PLACEMENT (continued) 
1, Curtiss pusher flyingboat, 1913, showing engine behind pilot and above cockpit; 
2, Farman pusher biplane, 1915, with Gnome rotary engine, representing the highest 
development in France, at that date, of this type. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 - Lorninc 



Plate 5 




Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Loening 



PLATE 6 




J*=- -^^ 





1, NC-4 Navy 4-engine seaplane, first to fly across the Atlantic Ocean, 1919, engine 
location between biplane wings; 2, Dornier DO-X transoceanic flyingboat, 1929, 
with 12 engines placed on top of the strut-braced monoplane wing; 3, Navy Consoli- 
dated "Coronado" type flyingboat, 1942, the general configuration in wide use in 
air transport as well as in the Navy from the mid-1930's to the present time. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Loening 



Plate 7 




Sa i I'liiitn— w>ia#Ci 





CURRENT JET TRANSPORTS 
1, Boeing 707, pioneer 4-engine jet transport, showing engines mounted close to ground 
under wing; 2, Douglas DC-8 jet transport in flight, landing gear folded, jet engines 
equipped with sound suppressors; 3, the Caravelle, French jet transport which 
pioneered the correct location of jet engines (high and aft), a type now coming into 
much wider usage. 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 351 

Competition which was specifically designed to advance and encourage 
airplanes that could land in smaller fields over obstacles without sacri- 
fice of useful high speed. This was the real beginning of the STOL ^ 
in this country. 

The winner of that competition was the Curtiss "Tanager," a very 
intelligent design that made full use of the then-existing high-lift 
devices. Did all aircraft, the year following, adopt split flaps, or 
Fowler flaps, or Handley-Page slots that had been so successfully 
demonstrated ? They did not. There was the usual opposition, criti- 
cism, and delay for several years more before this highly desirable 
development in aircraft wing structure came to its now universal 
fruition. A fine recent example is the Helio-Courier. 

POWERPLANTS 

Let us look for a moment at the history of the development of air- 
craft powerplants. The Wrights designed their own engine for their 
own aircraft, and for its purpose it was correct. In France, in the 
earlier days, most of the early powerplants were derived from auto- 
mobile or motorcycle sources. The first plane to make an officially re- 
corded flight in Europe, the Santos-Dumont "14-bis," used a 50-horse- 
power, 8-cylinder Antoinette motor. But it was not long (1909) 
before the French had developed the Gnome rotary air-cooled motor 
which in ever- increasing sizes and improved types took over the field 
for several years and saw very wide use in the First World War. 
In this country, Curtiss continued to develop his original motorcycle 
engine into a series of aircraft engines, such as the 90-horsepower 
OX-5 and others of even higher horsepower. Then came the Liberty 
motor development, while in Germany there was wide development of 
water-cooled automobile-type upright engines of this character. 

Very little thought had been given to the fact that whereas in an 
automobile it is desirable, in fact mandatory, for the crankshaft to be 
low, in the case of the tractor-type airplane it was highly desirable 
for the crankshaft to be high, so as to provide propeller-tip clearance, 
to keep the center of gravity low, and enable the pilot to see over the 
engine. It was not until 1924, however, some 15 years after the Curtiss 
and Wright engines, and later the Hall-Scott and the Liberties, had 
gone into extended use, that we in America finally saw the light on this 
and inverted the dry-sump Liberty engine, thus placing it in the con- 
figuration in which it should have been all along. Except for its 
successful use in the Loening amphibian, this development came 
almost too late, because it was shortly succeeded by the radial air- 
cooled engine that developed to such a great extent from the original 
pioneer work done by Charles Lawrance, the designer of Lindbergh's 
Wright "Whirlwind" engine. 

^ SLort takeoff and landing. 
536608—60 24 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

SEAPLANES 

Our seaplane problem largely involved engine and propeller lo- 
cation troubles. Engines were placed in hulls, overhead, behind, and 
of course outboard on the wings as well as in tractor configurations. 
A cumbersome configuration of inefficient design was the Dornier 
DOX, which was built only once. Present-day jet engines have a 
much wider choice of location because of their light weight and be- 
cause there is no propeller-clearance requirement. 

MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION 

Materials of construction of aircraft have gone through many cycles. 
Starting with wood, fabric covering, and wire or cable bracing, there 
soon arose (with Fokker and Esnault-Pelterie in Europe and Sturte- 
vant in America) a trend to metal-frame construction, either struc- 
tural sections or steel tubing, brazed or welded. For several years 
after the war, and in spite of the Zeppelin Duralumin development, 
aluminum was suspect as a structural material — so much so that the 
famous Specification 100-A of the Navy prohibited the use of alu- 
minum in any structural part of aircraft. This is a pertinent example 
of how too-rigid specifications, based on what was good practice in 
previous years, can prevent future development. 

Today we face a similar situation in prohibitions against Fiberglas 
or plastic-stressed structures because it is so difficult, theoretically, to 
calculate and check the stressed condition. Yet plastics may well have 
as great a future in aircraft structures as dural stressed-skin mono- 
coques and wing panels had 30 years ago. We hardly need to re- 
capitulate how metal took over from wood, replacing a material that 
could not stand the weathermg difficulties of day-in, day-out air op- 
eration. New alloys — titanium and others — are beckoning alluringly, 
like Fiberglas, for a chance to show their worth. Also, "sandwich" 
materials are most promising. Will we still be slow to accept new 
developments ? 

WHY THESE DELAYS? 

What is the reason for these long delays in acceptance? The lesson 
one seems to gather from the instances cited and many others is that 
aviators' likes and dislikes have been given too much weight, thus 
discouraging the engineers from perfecting their developments. In 
retrospect, one finds many instances where worthy developments were 
ignored or abandoned. Many a wing flutter that scared a test pilot 
condemned to utter oblivion an airplane that had structural or con- 
figuration features of great importance and advantage. Had the 
customer and the builder been patient or wise enough to work out 
such "bugs," success would often have followed. 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 353 

On the other side of the picture, many an airplane with little com- 
mercial or military value was for years accepted because the up- 
holstery and the windshield were well worked out, and because a lucky 
combination of slipstream and wing flow (totally unforseen by the 
designer) gave unusually good control on landing which made it easy 
for the pilot. 

AIRCRAFT OPERATION 

Let us now look at today's aircraft operation for further lessons 
and possibly anticipate some future troubles, particularly as to safety. 
Today all aircraft can be spun and recovered with safety; 40 years 
ago, this was not so. Up to 1913 the "spinning nosedive" or the 
deadly "spiral dive from air pockets" was the disheartening cause of 
accident after accident. At Dayton in 1913 came a very important 
historical turning point in airplane operation. This was when Or- 
ville Wright, discouraged by the accidents that were happening to 
his exhibition fliers and to a whole series of Army fliers ( Hazelhurst, 
Love, Kelly, and many others), determined to test out himself what 
was happening. It was not long before he came back from these 
test flights smiling instead of grim, because he had discovered what a 
'•'spin" is, and how to get out of it — by pushing forward on the con- 
trols; and why so many aviators had been killed— by pulling back 
on the controls at the wrong time, instead. 

Now, some 38 years later, when we begin to fly through the sound 
barrier, we discover that there is a brief moment when controls are 
reversed. And also today we are plagued by "pitchup" in the control 
of supersonic aircraft. Recently a jet airliner suddenly dove 29,000 
feet. Are these effects the manifestations of some new operational 
characteristic of sweptwing aircraft which may require some addi- 
tional or different controls other than the ones we have provided ? 

The operation of aircraft has become very complex, owing to the 
constant addition of more and more instruments and more and more 
traffic controls. We have gone a long, long way from our first 
instruments — the waving string for sideslip, wire whistling for speed, 
and the railroad track for navigation ! Are our present instruments 
really the ones we should have? Has not the barometric altimeter 
caused us so many accidents that we should long ago have gone to 
something better? Our automatic pilots are all based on known 
flying procedures. Perhaps the new types require some new flying- 
control procedure, such as crossed controls to prevent "pitchup" or 
to prevent the sweptwing dive. 

It is in such areas that we are much too complacent and that we 
leave lying on our doorstep, without enough concern therefor, prob- 
lems that should alert us more quickly to determined inquiry. In 
1917 Lawrence Sperry invented and demonstrated the turn-and-bank 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

indicator. In 1934 the Army took on the airmail. Their phmes did 
not have the turn-and-bank as did the civilian planes. This one 
regrettable oversight was such a serious factor in causing tragic acci- 
dents that the cancellation of the Army's effort followed, largely, 
when reviewed, because of this. 

The complicated procedure now required for flying is becoming so 
expensive and cumbersome that private-owner flying will soon become 
as impractical as owning a private locomotive. The airlines and the 
military seem to aim at making the free airspace a monopolized rail- 
road track. Will not this trend throttle our greatest future segment 
of aircraft manufacturing — the air-vehicle industry to succeed the 
automobile ? This must not be allowed to happen. 

NOISE 

Noise abatement is now clamoring on our doorstep, but we should 
learn from our history that abatement itself is not now the answer. 
The answer is to design a powerplant with as much consideration 
given to a fundamental limit on noise in its original design, as is given 
today to its fuel consumption and Aveight. We can soundproof against 
internal noise rather well in a cabin, but external noise has made the 
airplane a very undesirable neighbor, even to the extent of having it 
ruled out in many places, and high-pitch vibrations are now being 
suspected of causing structural failures. Have we, through these 
formative years, appreciated noise problems enough? This one can 
be answered quickly : we certainly have not. 

AIRPORTS 

Literally billions of dollars are being spent on airports throughout 
the AYorld. In too many instances, particularly in America, these 
have only one runway — in other Avords, they are like a one-track rail- 
road. It is difficult to understand why this is so, when we stop to 
remember that during World War II whole squadrons of aircraft 
landed on and took off from runways wide enough to permit several 
airplanes to take off or land at one time. In these operations the air- 
craft were within a few feet of each other. Why then should not a 
commercial airport have at least three runways in each direction, 
spaced possibly 300-feet apart, center to center? On such areas we 
could then proceed to land three aircraft at the same time, or at least 
be landing aircraft on one runway and having others take off on 
another simultaneously. 

The hesitation on this is typical of our complacent thoughtlessness. 
There is no danger involved. Thousands of times a day the pilots of 
large transports land their planes accurately and within a few feet of 
the centerline of runways, and never run off into the ditches on the 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 355 

side. To be sure, in close navigation in heavy weather we do need 
to know if another i^hine is near us, but it is within the power of 
radar instrumentation today to supply aircraft with close-proximity 
radars, possibly even with a television connection that would show up 
anything in the immediate vicinity. Iladio, of course, has helped tre- 
mendously to bring about the era of practical civilian flying, and it 
can be counted on to continue to give us the things we need now if we 
will but indicate the required elementary development — simple, close- 
reading radar with 2-mile radius to begin with, not 200 miles — direct- 
reading radio altimeters, with 200 feet radius, not 40,000 feet. We 
have been demanding too much all at once of these instruments, with 
the result that we have little as yet. 

THE JETPLANE DEVELOPMENT 

The jetplanes of the day in America are not being developed in the 
same way as they are in Europe in one particularly important charac- 
teristic — the location of the jet engine. The Douglas DC-8 and Con- 
vair 880 have followed the lead of the Boeing 707, which naturally 
followed the lead of the B-47 and the B-52, Unfortunately, these 
leads seem to derive from the old position of piston engines in nacelles 
mounted outboard on the wings. Here we have a very typical illus- 
tration of a lesson not learned from the history of our art. For a jet 
engine there could not be a more questionable location. Jet engines 
are very light, so that the structural saving of spreading the weight 
over the wing is very much less than in the case of the piston engine. 
Also there is no propeller clearance requirement. But the engines are 
now located so low that they will ingest any loose material on the 
runway with great risk to the delicate turbine engine interiors. 

The outboard engine is so low that a tire or wheel failure on one 
side could break it up on the ground, followed possibly by fire from 
the gas tanks above it. The position of the engine under the wing 
makes the wing a perfect sounding board to disturb the neighbors 
below, and the inboard engine is so located that its noise cone hits the 
rear of the fuselage, making it an almost untenable position. The 
builders and operators are fully aware of these features and are of 
course doing all they can to assure us maximum safety. 

But in Europe, most of the newer commercial designers completely 
separate themselves from all piston-engine concepts by placing the jet 
engines where they belong : above the wing and to the rear, mounted to 
the fuselage and leaving the wing with perfect aerodynamic cleanness. 
Maintenance also is improved by this location. VTOIj ^ concepts 
mentioned below may soften the impact of this questionable American 
design. Let us hope they do. 



" Vertical takeoff and landlug. 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

THE LIFTPLANE— VIOL 

The biggest revolution in the coming design of useful aircraft will 
be the advent of the direct-lift airplane, sometimes awkwardly called 
VTOL. After some 10 years of intensive research, resulting in several 
bookshelves full of excellent NACA and other laboratory reports on 
liow to make a fast airplane land vertically, it is only now that we are 
beginning to show the needed interest and the start of progress in this 
development. Boundary layer control is only one facet of the problem 
of landing vertically. Tilting wings, tilting jet engines, and other 
ways are being developed. 

The helicopter is not quite the answer, simply because its speed is 
limited owing to the rotor configuration. Even if helicopters get up 
to a high cruising speed of 200 miles per hour, they will still have to 
compete with fixed- wing aircraft of over twice that speed. Through- 
out the history of aircraft development, there is one lesson that stands 
out clearly : high speed is always the successful characteristic of any 
type of operation, even on the shortest ranges. Slow aircraft, no mat- 
ter for what purposes, have never survived. 

On the other hand, the airplane as we know it is a very deficient 
vehicle because it cannot slow down, hover, or back up, as every other 
vehicle can do. The penalty we pay for this characteristic of having 
to keep going in order to stay up is great. More skill is needed in 
operation. Prepared airports must be provided, running up now to 
preposterous 10,000- and 15,000-foot-long runways, using up an 
amount of real estate that drives the airport to a distance from the 
city. So many planes want to land at the same one-track airport at 
the same time that very complex traffic-pattern and traffic-control 
problems arise. For jetplanes, as much as 100 square miles of airspace 
must be reserved for each plane while it awaits its turn to land on the 
one-track airport. All this because they cannot slow down below 
180 m.p.h. ! 

Many objections to liftplanes (VTOL) are now being voiced. One 
is that the fuel consumption for vertical flying is utterly prohibitive. 
In the light of history, this objection belongs with those that were 
initially raised to monoplanes, to metal construction, and to slots 
and flaps. A simple analysis will show tliat while direct-lift by jet 
will need three or four times the thrust of the existing jet-engine 
configurations, and will therefore use three times the fuel, the actual 
fuel used by the jet transport in taxiing out to the end of a long 
runway, waiting for clearance, the long takeoff run, then climbmg to 
1,000 feet, is almost as much as the direct-lift plane would use rising 
immediately to 1,000 feet from its pad at the loading ramp, with all 
engines full-out, and then shutting off its lift engines. 

Another objection in the same class as the earlier ones mentioned 
above is the weight of the extra jet engines for vertical thrust. 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 357 

Actually, vertical lift capability means a much lighter landing gear, 
which might almost revert 57 years to the Wright skids, leading to 
an aircraft with practically no landing gear at all except little rollers 
to push it around the ramp. Thus the weight of the extra jet engines 
that are needed for the vertical operation could be compensated for 
and would represent no more of a burden to the aircraft than did the 
landing gear. Originally, this represented 6 to 10 percent of the 
empty weight of the aircraft, was used only for a short while on 
landing and takeoff, and was carried neatly folded in precious room in 
the body for thousands of miles during which time it was utterly 
useless. On the other hand, the extra jet engines could, in an emer- 
gency, be used if the other powerplants failed, or for quicker climb. 
And with the ability to rise vertically and fly fast, the liftplane in 
smaller sizes, if not too noisy, would at last penetrate the open and 
fertile field of private vehicle aircraft, which has hardly even been 
touched, although we now lead the world in this field. 

When we come to the future supersonic transport with speeds up 
to 2,000 m.p.h., where more thrust from the engines will be needed 
than the whole weight of the aircraft, their design could begin now 
with a VTOL configuration. When we contemplate many different 
designs of aircraft for vertical lift and high speed, we find that the 
gas generator (the jet-engine powerplant) will most likely become 
a very intimate part of the wing. In fact, the final requirement of 
the gas generator is for a forced lift flow around the wing, including 
boundary layer control. For the slow-speed regime, a large volume 
of air moving more slowly (400 m.p.h. or so) is used and then re- 
placed, when once up in the air, by a suitable change in ducting to 
the high-speed "thrust" flow that we use today over a small cross 
section for fast aircraft. The wing then may well become the crank- 
case of the engine ! 

In 1926 Henry Ford, Sr., visited an aircraft show in Detroit. As he 
was leaving, he turned and looked over the planes and said, with 
his usual finality and quickness : "Let me tell you, these things will 
never amount to anything until they use their power to land with!" 
History will show that he was right. 

OTHER LESSONS 

Many other lessons are to be learned from the numerous aspects of 
our broad aeronautical field. The Zeppelin airship had its great value 
in bringing us Duralumin. Developed originally in Germany, with 
a courageous persistence through many discouragements, and with 
later developments in England and America, the large rigid-struc- 
ture dirigible airship did not survive, even after helium made it 
really safe. The reason was not structural. It had only one dis- 
advantage — it was too slow. And the lesson is this : In air logistics, 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

whether it be military or commercial, it is the load carried per year 
and not per trip that spells success. The aircraft, no matter what 
type, that carries less ton-miles per year per crew cost, or per pound 
of fuel, or per horsepower, finally loses out because it does not make 
enough trips per year. 

We are becoming aware that speed is the raison d'etre of flying, 
particularly in transportation of passengers. Have we learned that 
the greatest comfort of all to a passenger is the notice that he has 
arrived ? A supercomf ortable seat does not balance a tediously slow 
aircraft. 

We must also consider the seaplane and realize that it is all but 
lost today. Propeller clearance from the water limited early seaplanes 
because the configurations required an awkwardly high engine loca- 
tion, or a deep hull, or bulky pontoons. All this weighed more than 
a simple landplane and had more parasite drag, which adds up to 
more slow-speed deterrent. Also rough water kills the seaplane as 
a boat. Even the largest seaplanes we have had, some over 100 tons, 
are still a mighty small boat with which to tackle the ocean, particu- 
larly when the slowest speed on the surface for landing or takeoff is 
as prohibitively high in open seas as 50 to 100 knots. 

The jet engine, however, is apt to change this picture very greatly 
in the next decade. To begin with, the propeller clearance param- 
eter is done away with. A seaplane's aerodynamic forms can now 
rival those of the landplane, and because a seaplane alights on its 
hull on the water, weight and complications are saved by elimination 
of heavy wheeled landing gear. 

But the seaplane would still have to contend with rough water, 
were it not for the imminent advent of VTOL — vertical takeoff and 
landing, which will eliminate the "rough water blues" ! In fact, the 
readiness with which several new helicopters have acquired am- 
phibious characteristics, merely by a watertight fuselage, is a revela- 
tion. Settling on the water, even when very rough, is no trick at all. 
And water surface is perfect for vertical-thrust slip-stream takeoff — 
no dust, and fine ground bank.* 

We need a waking-up here, because water surface, so widely avail- 
able near where we want to go, is free real estate ! Also, the seaplane 
or water-based airplane leads more readily to the real giant aircraft 
(1 million pounds load, and 600 m.p.h. speed) which would be too 
heavy and impractical if a retractable landing gear with wheels had 
to be provided. 

CONCLUSION 

In concluding this incomplete review, these are the lessons we 
should learn : 



* The extra-lift "bounce-off" effect experienced when close to the surface. 



HISTORY OF FLIGHT — LOENING 359 

Eight under our noses, today, are wrong trends, unrealized, and 
right trends, unappreciated, because we do not think things through 
enough. 

The turbojet engine (except perhaps for a few metallurgical ele- 
ments) could have been built and used 30 years ago. And why did 
this not come about ? Because at that time we were thinking in terms 
of 100-mile-per-hour aircraft, and any designer would have known 
that the fuel consumption was prohibitive. None of us realized then 
that jet engines immediately meant 600 miles per hour. And so we 
missed it. We could quite quickly have learned how to handle high- 
speed flutters and drags. 

Are we too complacent in believing that engines and airframes are 
separate entities ? Reviews of aircraft design clearly show how much 
time and cost were consumed in trying to fit existing engines into air- 
frames that were never designed for such engines. The two are, after 
all, a unit and, with the advent now of vertical flying, airflow require- 
ments around a wing from the jet engine gas generator source make 
the wing construction an intimate part of the powerplant. 

A breakthrough on lighter radiation shielding is now imminent, 
and this means nuclear powerplants. So let us start our thinking on 
this new type at once in terms of wing flow and low noise level. 

As to research, our history shows that we may, at times, overdo it. 
Scientists find the hardware-in-use stage less pleasant and are there- 
fore reluctant to reach it too soon. This type of block needs a fine 
judgment and considerable prodding from the user-to-be. Also, 
occasionally we have been too slow in realizing that wind tunnels are 
not always the final answer to research. In supersonic aerodynamics, 
in particular, many correct results can only be found in the open air, 
free of restrictions, giving the correct ambient flow, accelerations, etc. 

In only 50 years of air transport we will progress from the remark- 
able Sikorsky pioneer 4-motor cabin plane of 1913, to the coming 
supersonic VTOL transport of 1963. World history seems to show 
that anything man can clearly imagine eventually materializes into 
reality. Our air age has only just started, for in our traveling and 
transportation of goods by air, we are about to obsolete the wheel, 
just as the wheel and axle invention obsoleted the skid some 10,000 
years ago. 

In Russia, the aircraft builder reaches for success because he does 
not want to be sent to Siberia. In America, the aircraft designer used 
to burst with ambition, not only for fame, but for wealth rightfully 
earned. History shows that our greatest air progress was in those 
years when governmental restrictions were at a minimum and profit- 
able free private enterprise at its maximum. Let us not wander from 
this too far, for we face a bitter rivalry. 



The Use o£ Oceanography^ 



By G. E. R. Deacon 

Director, U.K. National Institute of Oceanography 
Surrey, England 



[With 2 plates] 

The director of the world's largest marine laboratory recently gave 
a vivid picture of tlie disadvantages under which, marine scientists 
have to work. First, he pointed out, there is the great disparity be- 
tween the size of the area to be studied and the number of scientists 
actually engaged on the study. Although the ocean covers an area 
well over twice that covered by land surfaces, the number of ocean- 
ographers is infinitesimal in comparison with the numbers of scientists 
engaged in the study of the land. 

Then there is the baffling opacity of the ocean which defies attempts 
to penetrate it except by such means as lowering measuring and 
sampling apparatus on long wires or by sending down into the depths 
of the ocean a few intrepid scientists in one of the only two safe 
bathyscaphes now in existence. But the performance of such measur- 
ing and sampling apparatus can only be assessed indirectly, and the 
observers in the bathyscaphe cannot see anything that is more than 
a few feet away. Acoustic methods, which send sound waves into the 
sea and seek to distinguish between different kinds of echoes, show in- 
creasing promise, but they are a poor substitute for our eyes, and for 
the telescopes and aerial photography which can be used on land. 

Another limitation arises from the fact that waves, currents, water 
movements, and sea conditions vary widely and as yet unpredictably 
with time and place, and can only be studied at the relatively few times 
and places accessible to research ships. Lastly, there is the disadvan- 
tage common to all large-scale problems in nature that little use can be 
made of controlled experiments — the forces involved are too large, and 
the time and space scales too great to be simulated in the laboratory. 
A well-known marine scientist has aptly smnmed up the position by 
asking how meteorologists would get on if they had to cover the whole 



1 Reprinted by permission from Impact of Science on Society, vol. 9, No. 2, published 
in 1958 by UNESCO. 

361 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

of the Northern Hemisphere with half a dozen automobiles recording 
observations by flying kites on a moonless night. 

However, it is not by enumerating the handicaps under which he has 
to work that the oceanographer can hope to rouse interest in, and win 
support for, marine science. Rather, he must point to the practical 
benefits that can be gained from the study of the ocean. He must 
show — if he can — that it will help us to get more food and raw ma- 
terials from the sea and that this can be done without prejudice to 
future supplies ; that it will improve the use of the sea for navigation 
or for such purposes as the disposal of waste products ; that defenses 
against waves, storms, floods, and the silting of harbors will become 
more effective as we learn more about the sea. In other words, he has 
to show in what ways oceanography can be of practical use. 

FOOD FROM THE SEA 

The ocean covers over 70 percent of the earth's surface, and any part 
of it is, on an average, probably at least as fertile as an equivalent area 
of land. Naturally this fertility (and the same applies to the fertility 
of land surfaces) depends on a complex interaction of sunlight, nu- 
trients, and other environmental conditions which may vary considera- 
bly from one region to another. 

To reap the harvest of the ocean is at least as difficult a task as that 
of reaping the harvest of the land. The bulk of marine life is in the 
form of microscopic plants and animals, usually known as plankton, 
which are neither easy to gather nor agreeable to the human palate ; 
we have therefore to rely almost entirely on their conversion into 
human food by fish and animals that have been nourished and fattened 
on them. In our ponds and streams we can practice some husbandry, 
but in the oceans we must still hunt for food and must face many of the 
problems that confront us on land. We are beginning to find that even 
in the most fertile areas stocks of profitable and edible fish are not 
inexhaustible, and that the profits of the chase depend on scientific 
knowledge, teclinical ingenuity, and capital expenditure. The increase 
in the activity and efficiency of commercial trawling and the consequent 
impoverishment of favorite fishing grounds have made it necessary 
to send ships farther afield and to intensify the drive for improved 
methods of detecting and catching fish. It is now possible for salmon 
to be taken in great numbers in the open ocean as well as in the rivers ; 
tunny can be caught in midocean areas far away from their tradi- 
tionally known haunts ; and whalers now have recourse to the modern 
methods of underwater detection and aerial observation. It is signifi- 
cant that the methods developed by whalers for operations in the most 
distant oceans of the world are now being applied to fisheries in the 
North Atlantic; factory ships and transports are tending more and 
more to take the place of shore bases. 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 363 

The need to help fishermen to get a good and steady return for their 
work without impoverishing the fishing grounds themselves has done 
more than anything to foster the study of the sea. This practical im- 
mediate aim has led to the specialization known as fisheries science; 
but it has also emphasized the need for precise study of all aspects of 
the ocean. This need has been greatest where there are large numbers 
of people who have long been dependent on food from the sea as well 
as from the land, and where long-established fisheries have become 
uneconomical, either through natural causes or as the result of intensive 
fishing. A paucity of fish unavoidably leads to friction, not only be- 
tween fishermen but also between countries ; and the best way of lessen- 
ing such friction is to gain precise knowledge of the life histories, mi- 
grations, and feeding habits of fish in relation to their environment. 
Given sufficient understanding of the changes in numbers and distribu- 
tion, a realistic basis for satisfactory agreement can be established. 

But the task of gaining such knowledge is a very difficult one, because 
fish populations are affected by different conditions during spawning, 
hatching, and larval and adult stages, and we know very little about 
which conditions are favorable and which are not. Bad weather, low 
temperatures, and unfavorable currents may interfere with spawning 
and hatching; the success of the larval stages may depend on the pres- 
ence of a particular current to take the larvae to favorable feeding 
grounds; and further development and growth of the adult may be 
determined by a whole range of physical and biological processes neces- 
sary to insure favorable living conditions and adequate food supplies. 
The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, formed 60 
years ago by the countries of northwestern Europe, has made good use 
of advances in knowledge and promoted many agreements on measures 
for regulating fisheries in the interests of all concerned. However, the 
number of disputes still occurring shows that much remains to be done 
in establishing facts and principles to prevent misinterpretations and 
misunderstandings. 

A more pressing task, especially in countries with rapidly increasing 
populations, is the need to find and develop new fisheries. Sufficient 
light to cause photosynthesis is the first essential, but in temperate and 
lower latitudes, where there is plenty of sunshine, growth is often 
limited by shortage of nutrient salts, particularly phosphates and ni- 
trates. Some guidance with respect to regions likely to be rich in nu- 
trient salts can be gained by studying water movements. Warm sur- 
face water is generally separated from the colder deep water by a 
clearly defined transition layer in which the decrease in temperature 
causes sufficient increase in density to set up resistance to vertical mix- 
ing. There is thus a layer of relatively light water over one of greater 
density, and while the winter storms in cooler temperate latitudes are 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

sufficient to mix them, in lower latitudes the boundary layer and resist- 
ance to vertical mixing persist all the year round. In these latitudes 
the continual plant growth in the surface layer uses up the nutrients or 
reduces them to very low concentration. The underlying deep water 
is rich in nutrients because of the decay of sinking organic matter and 
lack of light, but the amounts of these nutrients which find their way 
to the impoverished surface layer are small because of the absence of 
mixing between the cold and warm waters. Anything which tends to 
encourage upward movement of cold water and to increase mixing 
thus leads to richer growth at the surface, and the boundary of any 
current or the site of any sharp change in speed and direction of cur- 
rent is a likely place to look for the physical processes which lead to 
greater mixing. Any boundary in the ocean, especially if the land lies 
to the left of the direction of the current in the Northern Hemisphere 
or to the right in the Southern Hemisphere (because of the earth's 
rotation), is thus likely to be richer in food than offshore water. But 
any change of depth, particularly at the edge of the continental shelf, 
may also cause up welling; shoals and shallow waters around islands 
generally have a much richer flora and fauna than the deep water close 
at hand. 

Far away from land, useful concentrations of fish have been found 
on boundaries of currents, such as that between the north equatorial 
current and the equatorial countercurrent. New ocean surveys have 
been planned in the light of such knowledge, and an understanding of 
the dynamics of water movements can be as good a guide in extending 
salmon and tunny fisheries into the deep ocean as a knowledge of 
shoals and currents has been to shallow- water fishing. 

But while upwelling and mixing are over-all guides to regions of 
high productivity, an understanding of the actual living and shoaling 
habits of fish also require study. The areas richest in fish are not 
likely to be found where the water is coldest and contains most nu- 
trients; it may be that water coming up from below has to remain 
some time at the surface before it can support a rich growth of 
plankton and fish. Most fish are thus generally found in the boundary 
regions between colder and warmer waters. 

The distribution and shoaling habits of fish are also known to be 
affected by many other factors, such as winds, tides, currents, or 
perhaps an inlet of fresh water, and although there is often some local 
knowledge and experience available in this respect, there is too little 
systematized information on which further knowledge could be built. 
A better knowledge of water movements would also help to improve 
the operation of fishing gear and to develop new techniques, such as 
acoustic methods of finding, identifying, and counting fish, while a 
better knowledge of local movements of fish (and prawns) would in- 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 365 

sure a more regular supply, and thus a more economical operation of 
freezing and canning plants. 

RAW MATERIALS FROM THE SEA 

China still takes at least 2 million tons of common salt from the sea 
every year, and India extracts some one and a half million tons; the 
world total is about 5 million tons per year. This, of course, is an 
infinitesimal fraction of the total amount of salt in the ocean. The 
world production of magnesium from the sea probably amounts to 
about 300,000 tons per annum, and that of bromine 100,000 tons. 
Many other chemical products are present in the sea, but they are so 
greatly diluted that no profitable methods for extracing them have 
yet been found. Potassium, for example, has been obtained from the 
ocean, but it is much more profitable to extract it from inland seas 
which are partly or completely dried up, such as the very saline 
Dead Sea or the marine deposits of Stassfurt (Germany), Alsace, and 
New Mexico. 

The Chilean nitrate deposits, not to be confused with those of guano, 
are also believed to be of marine origin. Some iodine is still produced 
from seaweed, but most of the world's supply comes from the Chilean 
nitrate beds and from concentrated natural brines. The ultimate 
origin of petroleum seems to be the decomposition of organic material 
at the bottom of former, very fertile, ocean basins ; if this is true, the 
immensity of petroleum reserves gives some idea of the scale on which 
the ocean can produce organic material. 

The present problems encountered in extracting chemicals from the 
sea are the problems of chemical engineering concerned with the 
handling and the concentrating of large volumes of water ; but a better 
understanding of geochemical processes, particularly of sedimentation 
and of the conditions under which mineral oils were formed, is likely 
to be a useful guide to the finding of further deposits. 

POWER FROM THE SEA 

Schemes to obtain power from the sea encounter the same kind of 
difficulty as processes for extracting chemicals: tides, waves, and 
currents contain large amounts of energy, but this energy is spread 
over such large areas or volumes of water that the installations needed 
to extract it would not be economical. Small tide mills have operated 
since early times, but large-scale projects have come to nothing; the 
British scheme for the Severn barrage never materialized, and the 
Passamaquoddy scheme in the Bay of Fundy (Canada), started in 
1935, was soon abandoned. 

Technical developments in the design of turbines have opened up 
new possibilities, and a large project (360,000 kw.) intended to pro- 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

duce 800 million kw.-hr. per annum has been started in France in the 
Ranee estuary. This project is due to be completed in 1960 and, if 
successful, may lead to a much larger scheme embracing the Mont- 
Saint-Michel Bay and producing the equivalent of about lialf the 
electricity now consumed in France. Plans are also being discussed 
for another attempt in the Bay of Fundy. Such projects demand 
not only specialist knowledge of the tides and currents, but also a 
careful assessment of their effects on navigation, fisheries, and the 
configuration of coasts and beaches in the neighborhood. 

The power of waves is obvious to anyone who has seen the damage 
they can inflict ; many a storm hits the coast with a force of a million 
horsepower per mile of coastline. But it would require an enormous 
engine to tap this force, and the operation would be more difficult 
than using the energy of tides. Small installations have been tried; 
a wave pump with an output of about one-half horsepower under 
favorable conditions worked for 10 years at Monaco ; an installation 
in Newfoundland produced enough electricity to light a small house. 
These and similar schemes, combined with the use of new techniques 
and materials, seem reasonable enough to warrant a more thorough 
study of wave conditions. 

Utilization of the relatively large and steady differences of tem- 
perature between surface and deep water in the tropical seas has 
engaged the attention of French engineers for many years, and an 
experimental plant at Abidjan, on the Ivory Coast, will soon be com- 
pleted. This plant will produce large quantities of salt and fresh 
water as well as electricity. 

NAVIGATION 

Our greatest use of the sea is as a cheap highway for commerce ; and 
although the ships of today are well able to face winds, waves, and 
currents, there is little doubt that time could be saved, and loss and 
damage avoided, if wave conditions and day-to-day changes in cur- 
rents could be predicted reliably from weather charts and forecasts. 
The rewards will not be as spectacular as they were a hundred years 
ago when, by paying due attention to the new charts of prevailing- 
winds and currents, a passage might be shortened by several weeks; 
but they will still be substantial. Ships' captains may not take kindly 
to following changing sailing directions from the shore; but the prac- 
tice has been tried in a small way and has shown that ships can avoid 
storms and save time with less risk of damage. 

The study of ship movements in relation to waves has recently 
progressed to the stage where direct use can be made of reliable wave 
predictions. Much useful work has been done in this direction, and 
a number of authors have independently proposed formulae by which 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Deacon 



PLATE 1 




1. Research vessel JllatUis, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. 




2. Royal research ship Discovery II, National Institute of Oceanograph}', U.K. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Deacon 



PLATE 2 




o s; 



S "^ 




Q 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 367 

the main features of the wave pattern can be predicted from the speed, 
direction, and duration of the wind in the locality and in the adjoin- 
ing ocean areas which contribute swell. These predictions are, how- 
ever, of an empirical nature and have mainly local validity; much 
more work must be done before they can be of general validity and 
universal application. Such work would undoubtedly prove useful 
in the design of ships' hulls and in laying down operating speeds to 
suit different wave conditions, as well as in providing essential data 
for harbor design, coastal engineering, loading and unloading in 
exposed anchorages, passage over harbor bars, salvage operations, 
and oil drilling. 

We already have excellent charts of the prevailing ocean currents, 
but these charts are careful to point out that day-to-day speeds and 
directions are variable, even in regions of strong current. The first 
observations in the Gulf Stream, made more than a hundred years 
ago, showed that the current was unsteady, and that it shifted its 
position so that the set varied in strength and direction, especially at 
the edges of the current. Since then, the averaging of many thou- 
sands of observations has tended to encourage geographers to repre- 
sent the stream as broader and weaker than it really is. New 
observations between Cape Hatteras and Cape Cod, made with the 
help of modern radionavigational aids, show that the set in the fastest 
part of the current is often greater than is usually supposed ; it reaches 
as much as 4 to 5 knots in a narrow region 10 to 15 miles wide near 
the landward side of the current. The observations show eddies 
varying from a few miles across to several hundred miles, and they 
also show that on occasion there can be strong countercurrents even 
near the usual axis of the current. Experiments by tanker companies 
operating along the U.S. Atlantic seaboard have shown that seeking 
out the strongest part of the current can save time. In regions of 
variable current a better understanding of the physical processes 
involved might improve safety measures. 

Although the teclmiques of recording, analyzing, and predicting 
tides and tidal streams are already very effective, long series of ob- 
servations cannot be made at every place for which predictions are 
required. To make the best use of a short or remote series of obser- 
vations calls for a clear imderstanding of the effect of the tide-raising 
forces on seas of different size and shape, and of the factors which 
modify a tidal wave entering shallow water. 

COASTAL AND HARBOR ENGINEERING 

There are many potentially useful applications of tidal studies in 
connection with the changes in estuaries and channels brought about by 
silting and erosion. In fact, the interests of hydraulic engineers and 

536608—60 25 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

marine scientists are closely linked, and it has been said that the 
domain of hydraulics extends seaward as far as low-water mark, 
whereas that of oceanography extends landward as far as high-water 
mark. The bottom current is often different from that at the surface, 
so that silt and salt creep up the river estuary in spite of the greater 
outward flow of water at the surface. Better understanding of the 
mechanism by which both currents change speed and direction might 
well save some of the large sums spent on dredging. 

Experience and soimd engineering are essential to the design of 
coastal defenses, but they will not be able to be used to the best ad- 
vantage until our basic knowledge of tides, waves, and beach currents 
reaches a more advanced stage. This lack of knowledge is usually 
offset by allowing a large margin of safety in engineering construc- 
tion ; but this often puts up costs so high as to make them prohibitive. 
Wave recorders, which allow us to gain a better understanding of 
various types of beach movement, are now available and are being 
installed in many places where constructional work is planned. It 
has been found that short, steep waves are most effective in eroding 
beaches and depositing the eroded material at greater depths to sea- 
ward of the beach ; low, long swell returns the material to the beach, 
but if it comes at an angle to the beach it is very effective in moving 
material along the coast. Similar factors influence the growth and 
movements of bars, which can be a nuisance in the approaches to a 
harbor. 

It is not likely that a simple and elegant solution can be found to 
all these problems. But most of the effort in coastal engineering aims 
at preventing beach material from being moved from some parts of 
the coast where it is needed to protect the land, to other parts where 
it is a hindrance to navigation; and it is only reasonable to assume 
that this work may be done with greater efficiency and economy when 
we have gained a better understanding of the physical processes in- 
volved. It may be added that a better knowledge of beach currents, 
especially the dangerous rip currents, would reduce the number of 
deaths from drowning. 

Coasts and harbors are affected by surges and long waves which 
are of a type intermediate between ordinary waves and tides. One of 
the most common types is the surf beat — an oscillation associated with 
the more or less regular occurrance of groups of high and low swell 
approaching an ocean coast. The water level rises and falls several 
inches — and in exceptional conditions nearly a foot — over a period 
of 2 to 3 minutes. Many harbors have this surf beat, and the backw^ard 
and forward oscillations can be sufficient to damage ships moored to 
a quay and to snap the mooring ropes if these are not kept continuously 
tight. The surf can also set up unpredictable movements near harbor 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 369 

mouths and pierheads, which may add considerably to the difficulty 
of handling ships entering or leaving a harbor. Although the number 
of major ports seriously affected by this range action, as it is called, 
is small, there are some ports, such as Cape Town and Madras, where 
it is a serious problem. The recent International Navigational Con- 
gress (1957) urged that research be undertaken to establish the causes 
of the phenomenon, to predict disturbances likely to cause danger to 
shipping, to study the results of long-period waves, and to devise 
alleviating and remedial measures. Some evidence of increased silting 
due to this kind of oscillation was put forward at the congress. 

There are other kinds of oscillation which may contribute to the 
range action; long-wave energy may be transmitted from distant 
storms, and natural oscillations are also present in gulfs, bays, chan- 
nels, and larger areas of water such as the continental shelves. In 
small bodies of water shut off from the large oceans these oscillations 
are often more prominent than the tides ; round the ocean coasts them- 
selves their effect can be seen on tide-gage records, which every now 
and then take on a saw-tooth appearance as the regular rise and fall of 
the tide is disturbed by the local oscillations. We know very little 
about the causes of these oscillations, but it is presumed that local 
meteorological conditions have much to do with them. Experience 
shows that, in the case of long waves started by submarine earthquakes, 
the energy contained in a short burst of long waves coming from the 
deep ocean can be trapped in slower waves running along a continental 
margin, so that oscillations in a coastal region may persist for several 
days. There is also a possibility that disturbances may be prolonged 
by multiple reflections and refractions at the ocean boundaries, islands, 
and shoals. 

It is not known whether long waves can be generated in deep water, 
but in shallow water (50 fathoms) it is not unusual for a long wave to 
travel at the same speed as a meteorological disturbance (60 knots), 
and in such conditions the w^ave, once started, is continually energized. 
This happens every now and then in the English Channel; a small 
change in wind or atmospheric pressure traveling at just the right 
speed causes a long wave, and an observer on the beach can see the 
water ebb and flow several feet in as many minutes. Coming quite 
unexpectedly, it can cause considerable confusion among small craft 
near the beach and some trouble to people on the beach. 

The giant surges in the path of a hurricane, and when water is piled 
against a coast by a strong wind, are of much longer duration ; they 
no longer appear as irregularities on a tide curve, but are as large as 
the tides themselves. Coasts near the path of typhoons and hurricanes 
and those with a wide, shallow shelf extending toward oncoming 
storms are the most vulnerable to flooding. They are the subject of 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

intensive study in many countries with a view to predicting their oc- 
currence in time for all possible precautions to be taken, and to esti- 
mating the maximum height likely to be reached by the tidal waves 
so that appropriate defenses can be planned. 

The study of all the effects meterological conditions may have on 
water level is likely to be of considerable importance to navigation as 
well as to coastal engineering, because winds and variations in atmos- 
pheric pressure often significantly change the actual depth of water in 
a channel or over a bar. Even now it would pay most large harbor 
authorities to set up a small team to predict these meteorological dis- 
turbances of the tides. 

MEAN SEA LEVEL 

Industrial development of land near sea level — some of it reclaimed 
land — is now so great that changes in mean sea level, which may be 
quite significant over a period of 20 years or so, could have serious 
implications. The question is also important in geodetic leveling, 
where the results depend on information about changes in the volume 
of water in the oceans and about movements of water from one region 
to another, as well as on information about changes in the shape of 
the earth's crust. Mean sea level is obtained by reading the water level 
every hour from a tide-gage record and averaging the readings over a 
month or a year, with some allowance at the beginning and end of the 
readings to avoid falsifying the average by including part of an un- 
completed cycle of the main semidiurnal or diurnal tide. 

It has long been known that there are appreciable changes in mean 
sea level from month to month and from year to year, and that these 
changes are not merely local, but extend to separate and distant places. 
In most regions the monthly averages show an annual cycle, with the 
lowest mean level in spring and the highest in autumn. This is 
roughly what might be expected from seasonal changes in the density 
of the water and in the balance between precipitation and evaporation. 
The annual range of monthly mean level varies from a few centi- 
meters at oceanic islands in the Tropics to as much as 165 cm. in the 
Bay of Bengal. More complete knowledge of these variations will 
help scientists to study changes of climate, exchanges of water between 
sea, air, and land, and the worldwide circulation of water. It also has 
some bearing on the problems of coastal engineering and geodetic 
leveling. 

Study of the yearly averages shows that there are fluctuations from 
year to year as well as from season to season. On the Atlantic coast 
of the United States these fluctuations are generally less than 2 cm., 
but occasionally they may be as much as 5 cm. Between 1930 and 
1949 there was an overall rise of 10 cm. of the water level in relation 
to the land. At Newlyn, near the southwest extremity of England, 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 371 

the changes from year to year can be as much as 7.5 cm., and there 
has been an overall rise in level of 6 cm. over the past 40 years. These 
fluctuations, like the seasonal changes, probably depend on varying 
climatic conditions. The long-term rise is generally attributed to the 
melting of glaciers and polar icecaps, but in some regions subsidence 
or elevation of the land due to modifications in the earth's crust may 
be as important as changes in the level of the ocean. Although the 
southern part of England seems to be sinking in relation to the sea 
level, there is no change on the east coast of Scotland. Much has been 
written on the subject in the light of historical, archeological, and 
geographical evidence, and of tide records, but quantitative study is 
difficult without larger and more detailed measurements of both land 
and sea levels and without more knowledge of modifications in ice 
cover. Some of the changes — reaching as much as 15 cm. in 100 years 
in certain cases — are sufficiently large to warrant serious consideration 
in the planning and cost of seawalls. 

EFFECT OF OCEANS ON CLIMATE 

The atmosphere is very transparent to the sun's short-wave radia- 
tion, little of which is absorbed and that mainly by the water vapor and 
carbon dioxide in the air. Nearly half of the incoming radiation is 
reflected by the clouds and the surface of the sea and land ; the rest is 
absorbed by the water and land surfaces. Storage by water is more 
efficient, first because water needs five times as much heat as does rock 
to raise its temperature by the same amomit, and then because the 
overturning and mixing of water makes it store its heat deep down 
as well as at the surface. In the temperate regions, the effect of sum- 
mer heating can often be detected down to 100 m. by the end of the 
season. Because of the greater specific heat of water and because of 
mixing, the day temperature rises less and the night temperature falls 
less at sea than on land. In the Sahara the night temperature can be 
30° C. less than the day temperature, but in the same latitude over the 
ocean the difference is likely to be less than 2° C. Whence the contrast 
between maritime climate and continental climate. 

Winds and currents play a large part in controlling climate. As far 
as we know, there is a rough balance of incoming and outgoing radia- 
tion over the world as a whole, but there are significant differences 
between one region and another. Winds and currents prevent the hot 
climates from getting hotter and the cold from getting colder by trans- 
porting large amounts of heat, mainly from lower to higher latitudes. 
The atmosphere has an active circulation, probably because it receives 
heat at the bottom from the land and sea, mainly by conduction and 
from water vapor, and is cooled at the top by radiation to space. But 
the oceans are heated and cooled at the same level, since the inward 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

and outward radiation and the transfer of heat to the atmosphere 
have their main effect at the surface, and this cannot produce very 
active convection. It has been estimated that the kinetic energy in the 
oceans is only about 2 percent of what it is in the atmosphere, and that 
most of this small fraction is derived from the atmosphere through the 
drag of the wind. But although the water movements are slow, they 
carry large amounts of heat and do much to determine the place at 
which most heat is fed to the atmosphere. In this way they influence 
cloudiness, the radiation balance, and winds. Winds and currents also 
influence the density layering in the ocean, and this in turn affects the 
response of the water to the wind and to differences in climate. 

The interrelation of all these factors is too complex to be easily 
understood, but more and more emphasis is being placed on the need 
for comprehensive study. The lower atmosphere gets most of its heat 
from the sea, and a fuller understanding of the processes involved is 
needed to improve methods of forecasting warm, cold, wet, and dry 
periods for the benefit of food growers. Such knowledge may be use- 
ful in studies of weather as well as of climate, particularly in predict- 
ing hurricanes and typhoons, which all start over the ocean. It is 
also needed with respect to the oceans themselves — to enable fisheries 
scientists to predict how changes in wind and climate are likely to 
affect the water conditions in a fishing ground ; and in the shorter run, 
to enable navigators to judge how particular wind conditions will 
affect a current. 

The study of long-term trends in climate based on biological, geo- 
logical, and archeological evidence is of interest to many branches of 
science — and has also some more immediate practical importance. 
The question of sea level is one example, since it is important to know 
whether the present rising trend is likely to continue. Another inter- 
esting example is the question of the average carbon dioxide content 
of the atmosphere; there is a possibility that this content is being 
increased by the growing expansion of industrial processes. The idea 
was previously dismissed on the grounds that the part played by 
carbon dioxide in absorbing the longwave radiation sent out by the 
earth was small compared with that of water vapor, and that in any 
case the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere was controlled by 
the oceans, which have an almost infinite capacity for taking it into 
chemical combination as well as into solution. New estimates have 
revived the discussion, the idea being that by our present enormous 
consumption of coal and oil we are building a more effective green- 
house roof over our heads. This and other theories have been put 
forward to account for historical climatic changes. The idea must be 
given careful consideration, since a significant rise in the mean tem- 
perature would mean a reduction in ice cover of the arctic and antarctic 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 373 

seas and lands which, in turn, would accelerate the rise of temperature 
by reducing the reflection of the sun's radiation and increasing the 
absorption. Such a train of events might provoke quite important 
changes in climate and sea level. 

WASTE DISPOSAL 

One of the greatest uses of the sea is as a receptacle for the disposal 
of waste. The opportunity thus offered has been so much abused near 
large towns or industrial centers that bathing has to be prohibited, 
and there is even some risk of disease. A satisfactory answer to the 
problem calls for a clearer understanding of the processes of diffusion 
and mixing, and of the manner in which they depend on waves, tides, 
and currents. The disposal of atomic waste has not so far been a 
difficult problem, since the amounts are small and are likely to decrease 
further as new uses are found for radioactive waste. But we should 
keep in mind the object lesson provided by previous experience in air 
and water pollution — where the threat has so long been ignored that 
it has now become a formidable menace. Short-term measures based 
on inadequate knowledge and taken under pressure from interested 
parties have not usually been satisfactory. 

Although the spread of water from the River Thames across the 
North Sea seems to have a good rather than bad effect on fish popula- 
tions, the general impression everywhere is that fisheries and weed 
beds are declining; and we are not certain that we are not gradually 
poisoning the oceans. More research will at least give a clearer picture 
of local problems and provide a foundation for a campaign to keep the 
sea clean similar to that launched against indiscriminate oil fuel 
disposal. 

RESEARCH IN MARINE SCIENCE 

The part which the sea has played in the cultural, economic, and 
political history of mankind has always been a great stimulus to the 
study of the oceans. But in contrast to the wealth of literature on the 
achievements of the early explorers and geographers, there is no well- 
balanced account of scientific investigations of the ocean ; Krummel's 
"Handbuch der Ozeanographie" ^ is perhaps the best guide. Early 
scientists like Boyle and Newton took a great interest in the problems 
of the sea, as did later Lavoisier, Bernouilli, Laplace, Young, and 
others. Since the rapid growth of natural history in the 19th century, 
the main interest in the study of the ocean has centered on biological 
aspects, and today this interest is heightened by the fact that some of 
the fundamental problems in zoology can best be studied by using the 
simplest forms of life — which occur in the sea — and also that the 



^ The first volume published in 1907, the second in 1911. 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

results of such study are of practical importance to fisheries. But 
biologists themselves have always stressed the importance of studying 
the physical aspects of the ocean, i.e., water movements, since these 
must exert a great influence on the growth and distribution of the 
fauna. 

Since oceanography clearly has a bearing on sea warfare and de- 
fense, it is not surprising that the two World Wars should have 
greatly stimulated the study of the physical aspects of marine science. 
The claims of defense, navigation, coastal protection, and harbor 
engineering, together with the realization that the latest research 
techniques can give valuable results when applied to the study of the 
ocean, have greatly contributed to the development of these aspects 
of marine science. The new physical studies are adding to the in- 
terest of biological studies, but they require rather expensive facilities. 
Most of the work is being done or fostered by Government -sponsored 
organizations which often cooperate when their interests coincide. 

Useful work in the study of marine problems relating to fisheries 
has been done by the International Council for the Exploration of 
the Sea, mentioned earlier. Since its inception 60 years ago, other 
regional groups have been formed. There is also the work of the 
international scientific unions, and the International Union of Ge- 
odesy and Geophysics has an International Association of Physical 
Oceanography, which used to cover most aspects of marine research, 
but which now confines itself to the physical, chemical, and geological 
aspects only. The International Union of Biological Sciences, al- 
though it deals with marine studies, has no separate association for 
them. 

Recently UNESCO initiated a marine science program. Its main 
object is to cultivate interest in oceanography, particularly in coun- 
tries where it has not received sufficient attention. Pending the grad- 
ual development of a full-scale program, international and regional 
cooperation is being stimulated by means of symposia on regional 
problems, fellowships, visiting lectureships, and training courses. 
UNESCO is also endeavoring to get interested countries to build and 
operate a research ship, and is bringing together scientists to lay the 
foundations of regional cooperation in survey and research. Another 
task assumed by UNESCO has been that of acting as agent for the 
United Nations Organization in assembling information relating to 
problems common to many countries, such as the disposal of atomic 
waste and the regulation of the scientific investigation and exploi- 
tation of the continental shelves. The main task of cultivating in- 
terest in the subject and of promoting cooperation and a free exchange 
of ideas is one which UNESCO, with its area offices, is well equipped 
to do. 



USE OF OCEANOGRAPHY — DEACON 375 

The International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU), to which 
UNESCO makes a large annual grant, is promoting research at higher 
levels. It encourages and coordinates the activities of the scientific 
unions and furthers their mutual efforts in comiection with subjects 
not adequately covered by existing arrangements. It has responded 
to the needs of marine science by setting up a Special Committee on 
Oceanic Research, which has put forward a well-considered plan for 
collaboration in studying the deep oceans. A start is likely to be 
made in the Indian Ocean, and a number of working groups repre- 
senting all aspects of the subject are now being formed. 

As can be seen from this short account, various interests of impor- 
tance to many nations are involved in the study of the ocean. There 
must therefore be a good deal of international cooperation both in 
conducting oceanographic studies and in disseminating their results. 
It is only thus that we can reach that fuller understanding of the 
ocean which will help mankind to derive greater enjoyment from the 
blessings of the land. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25,D.C. 



Ambergris — Neptune's Treasure ^ 



By C. P. Idyll 



Research Professor, The Marine Laboratory 
University of Miami 



tWlth 2 plates] 

There is something ludicrous and yet pathetic in the contemplation 
of a fond mother storing a chunk of decaying malodorous flotsam from 
the seashore in her refrigerator in the vain hope that it will be the 
means of paying for her son's education. The hope tliat inspired her 
action, and which prompts scores of people every day to pick up and 
treasure the most repulsive pieces of dead flesh, jellyfish, yellowed wax, 
rubber, and hundreds of other objects tossed onto the beaches by the 
tides, is the expectation that they have found a piece of that romantic 
and improbable treasure from the sperm whale's intestine, ambergris. 

The Marine Laboratory receives dozens of inquiring letters every 
week. Some are requests for the identification of queer sea creatures, 
others for advice on buying shrimp boats, still others want information 
on "everything about the ocean." The fattest file of all concerns 
ambergris. Everybody from tots to retired oldsters have heard of 
ambergris, and have gained greatly exaggerated ideas of its cash value. 
But the lure of easy riches, to be casually picked up on the beach, ap- 
peals to all of us. If there is added the romantic overtones of amber- 
gris, the beachcomer is easily led to transmute anything he cannot 
identify into this treasure. 

Interest in ambergris is by no means new. It is repeatedly men- 
tioned in ancient oriental writings. Ideas of its origin are nearly 
as fantastic as the beliefs regarding its marvelous properties. 

Very early the whale was recognized to be connected with the pro- 
duction of ambergris, but it was hard for observers to accept the 
leviathan as the primary source. Birds, trees, seals, crocodiles, and 
bees are among the creatures which were believed to be responsible, 
the whale simply swallowing their product. 

Certain kinds of birds, especially those living on Madagascar, were 
supposed to produce dung which melted in the sun and ran into the 



1 Reprinted by permission from Sea Frontiers, vol. 4, No. 4, November 1958. 

377 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

sea. Another tale involved the birds of the Maldive Islands, a group 
of coral atolls in the Indian Ocean. Barbosa says that the natives 
here believed that "there are certain great fowls which alight on the 
cliffs and rocks of the sea, and there drop this ambergris, where it is 
tanned and softened by the wind, the sun and the rain, and pieces both 
great and small are torn by storms and tempests and fall into the sea 
until they are found or washed up on the strands or swallowed by 
whales." 

SPERM WHALE SOLE SOURCE 

Just why the whale was regarded as incapable of manufacturing 
ambergris by himself seems miaccountable. And yet we know now 
that he is the sole source of this strange material. Precisely how it 
is formed is still a matter of conjecture, but it turns up in the intestine 
of the sperm whale, Physeter catodon^ in the form of miattached 
lumps of varying size. 

There is a good case to be made for the theory that squid, or cuttle- 
fish, are comiected with the production of ambergris, since the parrot- 
like beaks of these animals are usually found imbedded in the lumps. 
Squid beaks do not form a nucleus around which fecal material is 
impacted, as has been stated, since the beaks are found in any position 
in the mass — and are sometimes missing entirely. 

Other early writers declared that ambergris was the hardened feces 
of the whale. Dr. Schwediawer in 1738, stated, for example, that 
"We may therefore define ambergris as the preternaturally hardened 
dung or feces of the sperm whale, mixed with some indigestible relics 
of its food." 

This idea has been regarded by many recent writers with about the 
same amusement as the theories about Madagascar birds, yet Dr. Rob- 
ert Clarke, the English whale expert, says, "I believe that Dr. Schwe- 
diawer was, quite simply, correct * * * Local increase in water 
absorption by the large intestine and the chemical transformation 
enacted by the resident intestinal bacteria, probably each play their 
part in the formation of ambergris from feces impacted around some 
matrix of indigestible material." 

More observation is required on this point before any definitive 
statement about the exact manner of formation of ambergris can be 
made. The whale producing ambergris is not necessarily sick, as has 
been said, since perfectly normal whales have yielded lumps of this 
substance. Another theory, that only male whales produce ambergris, 
has also been shown to be false. 

Wlien ambergris is cast out by the whale it is usually in the form 
of stones or pebbles, rounded by the movement of the intestines. In 
the sea and on the shore it is usually broken up before it can be recog- 



AMBERGRIS — IDYLL 379 

nized. Lumps of ambergris would easily be mistaken for rocks, 
unless their weight or their soft texture betrayed them. 

Ambergris has been found over a large part of the world, but since 
the sperm whale is, generally speaking, a warm and temperate-water 
animal, most of the finds have been in the middle latitudes. The 
Bahamas, Brazil, Africa, Japan, Australia, the East Indies, Peru, 
Madagascar, and the Moluccas are the sources mentioned most 
frequently. 

When ambergris emerges from the whale's intestine it is dark, 
almost black in color, of a sticky, bituminous nature. It stinks 
abominably, but as it spends more and more time in the water (floating 
on the surface owing to its low specific gravity) , it gradually improves 
in odor and lightens in color. "V\Tien found, the color is usually pale 
golden to dark brown, with the oldest lumps being chalky white. 
Tlie latter are the most valuable. 

From tlie fetid odor of the fresh material, ambergris changes 
progressively to a fishy smell, then to a sweetish musty odor reminiscent 
of the sea. Many curious adjectives have been applied to the odor 
of ambergris : "earthy, reminiscent of brazil nuts," "musky," "a light 
sea odor," "an indole odor of the fecal type," "a moist incense odor." 

STRANGE AND ROMANTIC USES 

The uses to which ambergris has been put are as strange and ro- 
mantic as its real and imaginary origins. One modern use, at least 
in the Western world, is in the manufacture of perfume, but this was 
not always so. Formerly, it found its way into food, drink, medicines, 
and tobacco. Its widest use was as an aphrodisiac. Just how this 
dingy-looking material came to be credited with the power of height- 
ening erotic desire is a mystery, and the man who first summoned 
enough courage to eat ambergris deserves to be remembered with that 
unknown hero who ate the first raw oyster. Whoever this worthy 
was, he soon had plenty of followers. 

In the middle of the I7th century Sir John Chardin wrote that 
the Persians used musk and ambergris in abundance in several sorts of 
their sweetmeats and confections — the one (musk) only to fortify or 
strengthen, the other (ambergris) to stir up love, and which the people 
of condition seldom failed to eat both before and after meals. It was 
especially valued by the Chinese, who as early as the 13th century, used 
to send as far as the east coast of Africa to get it, together with gold 
and ivory. They called it "lung yen," or dragon's saliva. 

Ambergris was credited in India with power to assist women suffer- 
ing from complications of childbirth, while the Chinese believed it 
assisted in the growth of marrow and semen. Several oriental peoples 
believed that it extended the span of life. 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Other supposed medical virtues of ambergris are as varied as they 
are fascinatmg: A remedy for hydrophobia, epilepsy, typhoid fever, 
nervous diseases, gravel, and for stoppage of the bowels. ^It was 
formerly regarded as a cordial and antispasmodic like musk a 

diuretic * * * gets rid of body parasites of tubercular patients and 
dispels ghosts." It was "able to dispel evil spirits and was used for 
devil possession and for asthma." ., -, , u v 

Nor is this the end of the medical wonders attributed to ambergris. 
It was further said that it "eases the headache, takes away defluxions 
from the eyes, comforts old and aged people, prevents apoplexy and 
epilepsy, strengthens all parts of the body and causes f-itfi^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
Leonard Stoller quotes another ancient writer to the effect that the 
Cantonese made ambergris into pills which were everlasting and could 
be chewed for years without diminishing m size. 

USE AS A FIXATIVE 

Ambergris can be used only in the finest and most expensive per- 
fumes. Its action is as a fixative. It adds almost nothing to the odor 
of the perfume itself but has remarkable powers of mamtammg the 
scent of the odorous constituents of the perfume. Musk m a perfume 
will give it the maximum diffusive power, while ambergris will give 
it the longest duration of evaporation. While perfumes prepared 
without ambergris last for days, those made with it will last for as 
many months, according to one expert. Ambergris imparts a subtle 
velvetiness unobtainable otherwise. , 

The starting material for the formation of ambergris is ambrem, 
which is present in some kinds of squid, eaten by sperm whales. Am- 
brein is a white solid, forming slender needlelike crystals which be- 
come highly electrified upon rubbing. In the presence of vanadium 
or copper and upon exposure to sunlight, air, and seawater, it is trans- 
muted into ambergris. 

SYNTHETIC AMBERGRIS 

Swiss and German chemists, after 30 years of research, have suc- 
ceeded in creating ambrein artificially, and it is on the market under 
the trade names !f "Ambropur" and "Grisambrol." ^ The two prin- 
cipal intermediate constituents are gamma-dihydroionone and am- 
breinolide. The former is responsible for the faint characteristic 
odor of ambergris and the latter for its fixative qualities _ 

In 1956 the new synthetics sold for about one-mnth the P"ce ot 
good-quality natural ambergris, and their price makes them available 
for use in cheaper perfumes. In addition, at least one fii;m is seriously 
investigating the aphrodisiac qualities of the synthesized materia for 
its possible use in animal husbandry. This serves to prove how hard 



AMBERGRIS — IDYLL 381 

it is to kill old myths — or else to prove that the ancients were not as 
stupid as we sometimes like to believe ! 

With all its desirable characteristics, supposed and real, it is little 
wonder that ambergris has demanded a high price, especially in former 
times when the uses were more varied than they are today. A thousand 
years ago it was a familiar item of commerce in Africa and was classed 
w^ith black slaves and gold as one of the important products of Magh- 
reb, the ancient Arabic designation for the northern part of the Dark 
Continent. Ambergris was once literally worth its weight in gold. 
The East India Co. normally paid between 50s. and 70s. per ounce — 
and in the valuable shillings of the I7th century ! 

HOW MUCH TODAY? 

In 1942 a perfumer is quoted as saying that ambergris was worth 
$20 an ounce, but if this were in fact true then, it certainly is not today. 
It is, of course, impossible to state "the" price on the present market, 
since the quality of ambergris varies so greatly. In answer to an 
inquiry in 1958, four of the leading perfume manufacturers quoted 
the following ranges of prices per ounce: $2-$6, $3-$4, $4-$8, and 
$8-$9. 

Most of the ambergris of commerce comes from the whaling indus- 
try and, as our correspondents put it, "individuals connected with ship- 
ping." Some of the notable finds have occurred in recent years. Dr. 
Eobert Clarke, the British scientist mentioned earlier, found a piece 
weighing 926 pounds in 1953. This enormous chunk of ambergris, 5 
feet 5 inches long and 30 inches around in its greatest diameter, came 
from a 49-foot male sperm whale caught in the Antarctic. Dr. 
Clarke says this is the largest piece actually examined and authenti- 
cated. He lists four larger w^eights of ambergris mentioned in the 
literature but regards three of them as probably comprising more than 
one piece. The fourth, weighing 982 pounds and reported by the 
Dutch East India Company in 1880, may be the largest single piece 
ever recorded. 

Smaller, but still notable, finds of ambergris are numerous in the 
wa-itten accounts: A piece weighing 182 pounds purchased from the 
East India Co. by the King of Thydore ; a 280-pound piece from New 
Zealand ; a 350-pound piece taken by a Norwegian whaler ; 750 pounds 
from a whale in 1859, by a Nantucket whaler. A 53-pound piece 
found near Scotland was sold in London for $42,750. As late as 
1956, a piece weighing 151 pounds 8 ounces was sold in this country 
for $20,000. 

So, not only is ambergris no longer worth its weight in gold, but to 
further explode the myth that it provides riches to be picked up on 
the beaches of the world, the chance of finding it there is extremely 
slim. 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Each of four perfume firms answering a query stated that it was 
rare for an individual to find genuine ambergris. Said one, "In all 
my 40 years' experience as a perfume chemist I have yet to meet an 
individual who has found real ambergris." 

Actually, people who have sent material to the Marine Laboratory 
in the past 16 years have a little better record than that : Two out of 
several hundred actually found the real thing. Both of these finds 
were in the Bahamas; one was a tiny piece weighing less than an 
ounce, while the other was much more worthwhile. This latter 
weighed about 200 pounds, consisting of one chunk of about 125 
pounds and numerous smaller pieces. It was f omid by Samuel Nixon, 
of Inagua, Bahamas, early in 1955 and was sold to a Nassau firm for 
£500. But for each of these two finds — one insignificant and one valu- 
able — there have been hundreds of blanks drawn by the beachcomers. 

HOW TO TEST 

The Laboratory has issued a bulletin describing tests which can be 
applied in identifying ambergris. Positive identification is the job 
of an expert, and even the best of these can sometimes be fooled. 
E. W. Bovill, who had intimate association with ambergris for many 
years as a dealer in the substance, relates how he and A. C. Stirling, 
another world authority on ambergris, paid a considerable sum for 
what they thought was a small piece of the valuable white variety — 
only to find on breaking it that it had a wick, and was a piece of wax 
candle, much weathered by the sea ! 

Despite the difficulties of foolproof identification, even a layman, 
by applying the tests below, can eliminate at least 95 percent of what 
he might hopef uUy believe to be ambergris. Says the bulletin in part : 

True ambergris * * * usually has the consistency of wax or pitch, but may 
be almost brittle * * * Ambergris will not dissolve in water, but floats even in 
fresh water, having a specific gravity between 0.78 and 0.98. It melts in hot 
(145° to 150° F.) water well below the boiling point. 

The simple hot wire or needle test for true ambergris requires no special 
apparatus. Heat a piece of wire or a needle in a gas or candle flame for about 
15 seconds and then press it into the sample to a depth of one-eighth of an 
inch. If it is genuine ambergris, a dark brown to black, opaque, resinous liquid 
will form around the wire and appear to boil. ( If the sample is wax, the liquid 
wiU be clear). Then withdraw the wire and, before the melted material on 
the wire cools, touch it with your finger. True ambergris will leave tacky, 
pitch -like "strings" sticking to the skin. (Most waxy substances so treated either 
cleanly coat the fingertip or merely take its impression.) When cold, the string 
of melted ambergris is shiny and resembles dark brown or black enamel. 

When the wire, which retains portions of the melted material, is again placed 
in the flame, true ambergris will soon emit a white fume having the same charac- 
teristic odor as the solid, and then burn with a luminous flame. (W^axes do not 
emit fumes until almost ready to ignite, and the fume has a typical "hot wax" 
or acrid odor.) Note the odor of the smoke when the flame is extinguished. It 
should have the odor of burning rubber. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Idyll 



PLATE 1 







1. Ambergris in the raw dues iiuL luok very rumaiuic, but it is usl-J in tin.- liiicst perfumes as 

a fixative. 




2. Most of the ambergris of commerce comes from tlie whaling industry, through the use 
of harpoon guns, like the one shown above. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Idyll 



PLATE 2 




1. A simple test for ambergris is to Iteat a piece of wire for about 15 seconds and press it into 
the sample. If it is genuine ambergris, a dark resinous liquid will form around the wire 
and appear to boil. 




2. This is one of the largest pieces of 3. The sperm whale is the sole source of ambergris, 
ambergris ever found, being over a Considering its huge size, it has a small mouth. 

yard in diameter. 



AMBERGRIS — IDYLL 383 

One quick test is to dissolve a little piece in a small quantity of hot wood 
alcohol (methyl alcohol), then allow it to cool. True ambergris will crystallize 
as the alcohol cools. 

A glance eliminates the great majority of materials sent to our lab- 
oratory. One of the most recent samples was a small bottle of what 
at first appeared to be a watery liquid. On closer look a small, very 
dead jellyfish could be seen. More commonly the samples consist of 
materials a good deal closer to the actual form of ambergris. Candle 
wax and pieces of rubber are common; carnauba wax (a yellowish 
product of South American palms, used in polishes) is frequently 
encountered. 

So the usual phrase in our letters of reply to hopeful people, like the 
lady mentioned in the opening paragraph, is "We are sorry to tell you 
that your material is not ambergris." 

Still, this strange, amorphous substance does exist, and who knows — 
someday you may beat the odds and actually find a piece of that 
marvelous product of whale's bowels and send it on the first leg of its 
journey to a fashionable lady's perfume! 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25, D.C. 

536608 — 60 26 



The Rhythmic Nature of Animals 
and Plants^ 



By Frank A. Brown, Jr. 

Morrison Professor of the Biological Sciences 
Northwestern University 



The Year's Awakening* 

"How do you know that the pilgrim track 
Along the belting zodiac 
Swept by the sun in his seeming rounds 
Is traced by now to the Fishes' bounds 
And into the Ram, when weeks of cloud 
Have wrapt the sky in a clammy shroud, 
And never as yet a tinct of spring 
Has shown in the Earth's apparelling ; 
O vespering bird, how do you know. 
How do you know ? 

How do you know, deep underground, 
Hid in your bed from sight and sound, 
Without a turn in temperature. 
With weather life can scare endure. 
That light has won a fraction's strength. 
And day put on some moment's length. 
Whereof in merest rote will come, 
Weeks hence, mild airs that do not numb, 
O crocus root, how do you know, 
How do you know?" 

Thomas Hakdt 

Living things inliabit a world replete with rhythms. Nearly every 
aspect of the physical environment exhibits rhythmic changes. From 
the submicroscopic atoms, comprising systems of negatively charged 

* Research program on rhythmlclty was aided by a contract between the Office of Naval 
Research, Department of the Navy, and Northwestern University. This article reprinted 
by permission from Northwestern University Trl-Quarterly, vol. 1, No. 1, fall 1958. 

♦From Satires of Circumstance, copyright, 1914, 1925, by the MacmlUan Co. Reprinted 
by permission of the publishers. 

385 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

electrons sweeping in orbits about positively charged nuclei, to our 
solar system of planets, including the earth, revolving in their orbits 
about the sun, the observable, relative stability of nature is dependent 
upon such rhythmic or periodic changes. 

The external physical environment of living organisms displays 
well-known rhythmic changes. The rotation of the earth on its axis 
relative to the sun provides the daily 24-hour period with its extensive 
changes in light, temperature, and humidity. The rotation of the 
earth relative to the moon provides our Imiar-day periods of 24 hours 
and 50 minutes. The lunar-day fluctuations in light and temperature 
are, however, feeble compared with those of the solar day. These two 
daily rhythms cooperate with the orbiting of the moon about the earth 
to provide monthly cycles of 291/^ days, the period separating two 
consecutive times of synchronization of solar and lunar noons. Both 
sun and moon are lesponsible for producing tides in the oceans and 
atmosphere of the earth. The sun is the more influential of the two 
in the case of the atmospheric tides, and the moon the more influential 
for the oceanic ones. The solar and lunar tides of the atmosphere are 
associated with more subtle physical changes such as barometric pres- 
sure, cosmic radiation, gravity, magnetic field, and atmospheric elec- 
trical potential. The earth also revolves about the sun with its axis 
oriented in such a manner as to yield the annual rhythm of the seasons. 
Finally, the sun itself rotates on its own axis with an average 27-day 
period, and since the sun's surface is not uniform, an additional 
rhythmic change with a 27-day frequency is imposed upon the surface 
of the earth. 

The physical environment of living things is truly a composite of 
rhythms. 

It might be presumed, therefore, that living things, as complex, 
delicately balanced, physico-chemical entities lying at a level between 
atom and solar system, persist as stable beings only through some 
kinds of comparable rhythmic fluctuations about mean values. In 
fact we do not need to go beyond our own bodies to be impressed with 
the existence of such rhythms. Man has daily cycles of many processes 
such as wakefulness, blood-sugar concentration, blood-cell count, and 
body temperature. For example, our body temperature tends to be 
lowest, other factors equal, about 5 to 6 in the morning and highest 
ahout 5 to 6 in the evening. Another familiar cycle is the reproductive, 
which follows the lunar month. 

Very widespread among the animal and plant kingdoms are daily, 
lunar- tidal, lunar monthly, and annual cycles of innumerable activi- 
ties ; and where biologists have sought them, 27-day cycles have been 
observed as well. It can be said without equivocation that rhythmic- 
ity is the rule in living things. These rhythms are often highly useful 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 387 

ones. Like the boxer in the ring, the organism in its rhythmic en- 
vironment is able to yield before the periodic blows and to advance 
after them. In its rhytlimic physical environment, the rhythmic 
organism is therefore adapted, figuratively speaking, to make hay 
while the sun shines, in preparation for the dark, cold nights. 

The spectacular, complex character of the rhytlmiic nature of living 
things first impressed me about 25 years ago as a young visiting in- 
vestigator at the Bermuda Biological Station. One of the fascinating 
pastimes w^as to sit on the laboratory jetty in the evening after dark 
with the water beneath illuminated by an electric lamp. Myriads of 
living things, attracted by the light, would swim into the area. All 
the creatures were easily identified because biologists had thoroughly 
studied the flora and f amia of the Island and published extensively 
upon them. But one night about 10 o'clock, the water suddenly be- 
came charged with ghostly, transparent, strange shrimp. We cap- 
tured some but a careful search revealed that these had never before 
been seen at Bermuda. They were sent to the British Museum, w^here 
it was learned that only one male specimen had ever before been 
caught — and that one in the Indian Ocean about 50 years earlier. 
It turned out that these shrimp are abundant at Bermuda, but swarm 
in hordes only for an hour or two just before midnight near the time 
of new moon. A 2-year study by Wheeler of the fluctuation in 
abundance of these shrimp at different times of the lunar month 
showed one swarming peak to occur two days after new moon, and 
a second larger one 3 to 4 days before new moon. No one knows yet 
where they conceal themselves the rest of the time. 

Such a precise lunar rhythm of swarming to assure the bringing 
together of large numbers of males and females for breeding and 
maintenance of the species is commonplace. Another and better- 
known example of lunar swarming for breeding purposes is that of the 
palolo worm of the southwest Pacific. At a predictable time of day 
at the times of the October and November third quarter of the moon, 
elongated posterior ends of these worms, filled with reproductive cells, 
break off and swarm from the burrows in the coral rock in such num- 
bers that they are readily scooped out of the sea. The predictable 
occurrence of these delectable, edible worms determines the time of 
feast days for certain South Sea islanders. 

Coming closer to home, newspapers of coastal areas of California 
indicate for their readers the exact hour when they can go to their 
sandy beaches and expect to catch a highly prized, small edible fish, 
the grunion, as they swarm in from the open sea and throw them- 
selves onto the beaches. This they do from April through June at 
that exact time of the month when the sun and moon are cooperating 
to produce the highest high tide of the month, and a few minutes after 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

the exact moment of high tide. These fish normally reproduce by 
depositing eggs and sperm in pits they dig in the wet sand just out of 
reach of most high tides. Here the young fish develop and are ready 
to take off to sea at the time of the next monthly high high tide. 

We do not have to select illustrations from animals alone, since even 
seaweeds are know^n which have lunar-monthly reproductive cycles. 
These are critical for the species; they synchronize the production 
of eggs and the sperm which must fertilize them. 

Examples of solar-day and annual rhytluns of living things in 
nature are legion. Every one of us can think of organisms that are 
habitually nocturnal, diurnal, or crepuscular in their daily time of 
activity, and axiomatic are our spring and fall waxing and waning 
of the activities of innumerable plants and animals. And along the 
shores of our oceans where the tides monotonously rise and fall with 
lunar-tidal frequency, 50 minutes later each day, are corresponding 
rhythms of activity of the organisms that live there : some, like oysters, 
which filter their food from the sea water are active only when 
covered by water at flood tide ; others, like the foraging fiddler crabs, 
scour the beaches for food exposed at ebb tide. 

Animals, furthermore, do not have to dwell on the seashore to dis- 
play a lunar-tidal rhythm. There is the often-quoted observation of 
the reef heron, which lives on the mainland of Australia up to 30 miles 
away from its feeding ground on the reef where it preys upon animals 
exposed at low tide. Each day this bird departs from its roost on its 
trip to the reefs just at the proper time to take advantage of the low 
tide — 50 minutes later each day. This phenomenal timing ability 
led one writer to remark, "Here is a sixth sense if ever there was one." 

Another kind of example of a daily rhythm is seen in birds such as 
the starlings, which, in their north-south migrations in Europe, have 
been demonstrated to utilize the sun as a compass through holding 
their bodies at a fixed angle relative to it. But the sun during a day- 
long flight gradually moves across the sky from east to west. Kramer 
and Matthews both reported that the birds continuously corrected for 
the changing position of the sun in order to maintain a fixed, straight, 
compass course. Kramer spectacularly demonstrated this by placing 
birds in a domed enclosure possessing an artificial sun fixed in one 
position. Under these conditions, the direction of orientation of the 
birds relative to the artificial sun gradually changed during the day, 
exactly as one would have predicted on the basis of the rotation of the 
earth. Some beach fleas which migrate up and down the beaches have 
similarly been proven by Pardi and Papi to use both sun and moon 
as their compass, correcting with equal facility and accuracy to the 
normal movements of each. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 389 

A final kind of illustration to familiarize one with roles of rhythms 
in organisms comes from studies of the time sense of organisms. 
Beling found that if honey bees are fed sugar water at a particular 
place and time of day for a few days, they will continue to come back 
to the same place at the same time of day. They even continue to come 
back for several days when food is no longer provided. This kind of 
time training can be accomplished only on a 24-hour periodic basis. 
One cannot teach them, say, to feed at regular 19-hour intervals. This 
learning process, therefore, in some manner involves their 24-hour 
rhythm. 

The foregoing selected examples of biological rhytlmis suffice to 
illustrate their widespread distribution and a few of the innumerable 
ways they may be put to use by living things. Now let us pass on to 
some studies of the mechanisms of the rhythmicities. 

The most obvious explanation of the daily rhythms that occurs to 
one is that the organisms are simply responding to the daily cycles in 
light, temperature, or humidity, and that the lunar-tidal rhythms of 
shore dwellers are simply direct responses to the rhythmic ebbing and 
flooding of the tides. This hypothesis was easily testable, and was, in 
fact, first tested about 200 years ago. Many plants were known to show 
a sleep rhythm involving the drooping of the leaves by night and their 
elevation by day. Zinn, in 1759, found that plants would still show the 
sleep rhythm when no light or temperature changes occurred. This 
observation was confirmed and studied extensively early in this cen- 
tury using the bean seedling, and such work is now continuing actively 
in the laboratory of Professor Biimiing and his associates at the 
University of Tiibingen, in Germany. A general method of recording 
automatically the leaf movements on a slowly rotating drum is 
illustrated in figure 1. 

The persistence of the daily rhythmic processes in living things in 
conditions constant with respect to all factors generally conceded to 
influence the organisms has now been demonstrated by numerous 
investigators for living things representing the gamut of the animal 
and plant kingdoms, and ranging from single-celled microorganisms 
to the most complex of multicellular larger ones. 

Fiddler crabs in nature start to blacken their skin about sunrise in 
the morning to hide themselves better from their predators, and to 
screen their delicate internal organs from the intense sunlight of the 
unshaded beaches, and about sunset they rapidly blanch until their 
bodies are pale silvery gray. This is more evident for their legs 
than for their bodies, since the shell covering the legs is quite trans- 
parent. Even crabs captured and maintained in constant conditions 
in a photographic darkroom continue for weeks or months to darken 



390 



ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1969 



SLOWLY ROTATING DRUM 



COUNTER\NDGHT 




PLANT SLEEP MOVEMENT 

Figure 1. — Apparatus for automatically recording sleep movements in the bean seedling. 

and lighten each day in synchrony with their relatives still free in 
their natural day -night environment. 

Another, and very interesting, property of these rhythms persisting 
in darkness is that they may be easily reset so that events in the 
rhythm occur at times of day other than the normal ones. This may 
be illustrated by the crab color-change rhythm. If tliis is proceeding 
normally in constant darkness and temperature (the top line of fig. 2) , 
showing maximum darkening at noon and blanching at midnight, and 
we simply, for two or three days, leave lights on in the darkroom 
from midnight to noon, we find at the end of this treatment that the 
crabs still possess an accurate daily rhythm of color change which 
persists in darkness indefinitely, but now (as in the second line in 
fig. 2) it has been shifted so that the color changes occur at an earlier 
time of day, by 6 hours. They now darken most at 6 a.m. and blanch 
most about 6 p.m. In a comparable manner we may set the actual 
time of the color changes in the 24-hour rhythm to any time of day, 
and there it will remain until reset. The third line of figure 2 shows 
crabs which were subjected to three lighted nights and darkened 
days ; the cycles are inverted. An alternative way to reset the cycles 
is through giving the crabs, while in constant darkness, experimental 
cycles of abrupt temperature changes. High temperatures act like 
light, lower temperatures like darkness. A third way to reset them is 
simply to place crabs with normal cycles in constant darkness on ice 
cubes for the number of hours one wishes to set back the cycles. When 
taken off the ice the crabs' color-change rhytlim picks up right where 
it left off when they were first iced (fourth line of fig, 2) and hence the 
phases are slow by a time correlated with the period of chilling. It 
is as if self-starting 24-hour clocks were stopped near freezing 
temperatures. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 391 

Fiddler crabs in nature romp most actively on the beaches seeking 
food about the time of low tide. When these crabs are brought into 
the laboratory and kept in vessels in a photographic darkroom, then, 
like those still left on the beaches, they continue to show their greatest 
running activity at the times when it is ebb tide on their native beaches, 
and remain relatively quiet at the time of flood tide. The time of 
maximum running occurs, therefore, later each day at the expected 
lunar-tidal rate. If in the same darkroom at the same time we place 




IN CONTINUOUS DARKNESS 



BLACK 



PALE 



BLACK 



PALE 



BLACK 



PALE 





BLACK 



PALE 



AFTER 3 



NORMAL. 



MIDNIGHT-NOON 





AFTER eHR. SCJOURN 



AFTER 3 6PM-eAM ILLJM. PERIODS 



(LLUM. PERIODS 



ON ICE 



I 2 3 4 5 6 

CALENDAR DAYS 

Figure 2. — Daily rhythm of color change in fiddler crabs and some of its experimentally 

altered phase relationships. 

two groups of crabs, taken from two different beaches on which the 
time of low tide was different by several hours, each group of crabs 
may continue to signal the time of low tide on its own beach. So, 
simultaneously in the same crabs deprived of all ordinary cues relative 
to time of day or tide, there persists, on the one hand, a solar-day 
rhythm of color change and, on the other, a lunar-tidal cycle of spon- 
taneous activity. 

Studies comparable to these, using numerous other kinds of animals 
and plants, have demonstrated quite clearly that, like the daily, the 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

lunar-tidal rhythms do not depend upon any known kind of external 
cues for the measurement of the lunar-period lengths. 

The 24-hour rhytlim seems very deeply ingrained in organisms. 
We showed a number of years ago that even if rhythms seemed com- 
pletely halted, as in the instance of color change in crabs held in very 
bright light for 10 or 12 days, a regular rhythm would reappear at 
once when the crabs were replaced in darkness. 

It has been satisfactorily demonstrated that an organism need never 
have experienced a single normal daily cycle in its life, and yet be 
capable of exliibiting a precise daily cycle. Hence the cycle cannot 
be contemplated in any sense as a period of day length remembered 
by the organism. It was shown long ago that beans grown in constant 
darkness show no rhythmic sleep movements, but a single brief light 
shock will start off a persisting 24-hour rhythm, the time of day of 
awakening onset, a f miction of time of the light shock. Fruit flies 
normally, as they are about to complete their development, emerge 
from their puf)al cases as fully active flies about daybreak. Dr. Brett, 
in my laboratory, showed, however, that if a batch of eggs is laid and 
development is caused to occur wholly in darkness, flies emerge at all 
hours of the day. But if during the development of the fly larvae in 
darkness, a single flash of light, as brief as one minute, is given them, 
then the flies will emerge from their pupal cases, up to days later, after 
completing their development and pupating, at the same time of day as 
the time the light flash was given. The light flash could not have 
imparted information as to the length of a 24-hour period to render 
this possible. The flies behaved quite as if they all had operating 24- 
hour rhythms of emergence but had had nothing by which to set them 
to the usual time of day. The brief light flash seemed to be treated 
by all the developing flies as the onset of a dawn, and with this, all 
the rhythms were synchronized. Flies normally emerge at dawn. 

A deep-seated daily rhythmicity of still miknown significance was 
discovered recently by Professor Biinning and his associates. This is a 
rhytlun of swelling of the nucleus of cells of a nmnber of plants. In 
the daily changes the nucleus is largest about 6 in the morning and 
smallest at noon. I have spoken of this rhythm as deep seated because 
the cell with its contained nucleus constitutes the fundamental unit 
of organization of all living things, whether plant or animal. 

It is a commonly experienced phenomenon when we have made 
long east to west or west to east airplane trips that we have moved 
to a new longitude without having reset our own internal 24-hour 
rhytlmis. If, for example, we had lived for a time in New England 
and were accustomed to awakening at 7 in the morning, and now flew 
to take up residence in California, we would find ourselves, in Cali- 
fornia, awakening and disconcertingly being quite wide awake, about 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 393 

4 a.m. Pacific standard time. In doing this we would still be follow- 
ing our 24-hour rhythm; this is, of course, 7 a.m., eastern standard 
time. But after a few days of experiencing the California social and 
day-night rhythms, we would have reset our rhythm to Pacific stand- 
ard time and would have the same kind of experience, but now in 
reverse, were we to fly back to New England. 

The foregoing is an example of a fundamental property of rhythms 
of living things which has given biologists more information. My 
associates and I performed an objective experiment of this nature 
with fiddler crabs a few years ago. Crabs, which were changing 
color in a darkroom in our laboratory on Cape Cod, Mass., at the 
usual times, dawn and dusk, were divided into two equal-sized batches 
and sealed in lightproof cartons. One batch was carried by airplane 
to be opened in an experimental darkroom at the University of Cali- 
fornia the next day. Synchronously, by prearrangement, the other 
group was opened in a darkroom on Cape Cod. The rhythms of color 
change in the two lots of crabs on the two sides of the continent was 
studied. The times of darkening and lightening for the two batches 
were carefully compared. Both were on eastern standard time. The 
crabs that had traveled to California kept their rhythm on eastern 
standard time, both during the trip and during the 6 days in Cali- 
fornia that they could be studied. The average time difference for 
the 6-day period was only 12 minutes ; this was within the error of our 
measurements. The crabs showed no tendency to shift their rhythms 
to accord with the dawn and dusk of California. 

From this last experiment it was possible to draw certain conclu- 
sions. ( 1 ) Since, during the day of their westward trip, the crabs had 
been subjected to an artificial day of 27 hours and 20 minutes with 
respect to any and every "local time" factor that possessed its 24-hour 
period as a consequence of the rotation of the earth relative to the sun, 
the crabs clearly could measure one 24-hour period without any kind 
of clue, even a subtle one, of this nature. (2) Once in California where 
rhythms of many physical environmental factors were once again 
24-hour ones, the crabs could retain an accurate 24-hour rhythm in a 
new time relationship relative to the external ones. (3) To reset their 
rhythms to Pacific time, the crabs needed exposure to one or more 
natural California light cycles. 

The year following this study on the crabs, a completely comparable 
experiment was performed by Renner, using the time sense of honey 
bees. Completely duplicate bee-training rooms were built and fur- 
nished in Paris and in New York. Bees were trained to come to a 
particular spot in the Paris room for food at a particular time of day. 
Once trained, the bees were sealed in a container and flown to the room 
in New York. The bees, now in New York, came to the feeding spot 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

at the proper time for Paris. They were retrained in New York and 
flown back to Paris. In Paris they came to feed at the proper time 
for New York. This confirmed completely our crab experiments. 

These experiments, however, did not prove that a rhytlmi of some 
subtle external factor was not essential to the organismic 24-hour 
rhytlmi since there are certain important 24-hour rhythms in the 
environment that are on imiversal time. By universal time is meant 
that the rhythm affects all regions of the earth's surface in the same 
ways at the same instants. Such a factor is the daily fluctuation in the 
300,000-volt potential difference which exists between the surface of 
the earth and one of the outer shells of our atmosphere, the ionosphere. 
By one of these universal-time cycles the 24-hour period could con- 
ceivably be imparted to the animals even while they are traveling. 
On the other hand, the living rhythmic system might be completely 
independent of all external cycles. 

We have seen thus far that the daily rhythms of living things in 
constant darkness, like the clocks in our homes, can measure accurately 
24-hour periods whether they are set at the normally correct time of 
day, or have been reset to register an incorrect time. As the mathe- 
matician or physicist would describe this, the rhythms in the living 
things need not have locked phase relations with any external physical 
rhythms. On the contrary, there is a freely labile relationship. This 
adjustability of the biological cycles is a very useful characteristic. 
Absence of this property would make the rhythms comparable to 
alarm clocks in which the time of day or the ringing of the alarm 
could not be altered. 

This brings us to another of the interesting properties of the 
rhythms of living things, namely, that many are known regularly 
to gain or lose a few minutes every day. Some are even known which 
regularly gain or lose two or three hours a day. Such a one as the 
last is the spontaneous activity of the field mouse, or the white rat. 
Both of these animals, when kept in constant darkness, may exhibit 
an accurate 24-hour cycle of running with about 12-hour periods of ac- 
tivity alternating with about 12-hour periods of rest, but when kept 
in an unchanging low illumination have their daily cycles of running 
longer than 24 hours. In the rat we found them to be quite regular 
and 2514 hours in length. In figure 3, starting at the top, the black- 
ened areas indicate the times of day of running during 70 days in 
constant dim light. To begin with, the rat, like any well-adjusted 
rat, ran only during the early morning and the evening hours. Since 
the rat started to run 75 minutes later every day, the daily period of 
running was occurring in the daytime in less than 2 weeks. The 
period of running can be seen to scan the day more than three times 
during the 70-day period from November 13 through January 20. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 395 




6 AM 



6 PM 



Figure 3. — Shaded area indicates time of day of running activity of one male white rat 
during 70 days in dim, constant illumination followed by a 25-day period of continuous 
darkness. 



When, at the end of this time, the rat was placed in darkness (the 
last 25 days in fig. 3), the rhytlnn became an accurate 24-hour one, the 
rat running at the same time each day. In other words, the rat ap- 
peared able to indicate accurately the time of day by its running only 
when it was in continuous darkness. 

In the bean seedling not only may the sleep rhythm often have 
natural periods a little different from 24 hours in constant darkness at 
ordinary room temperature, but the length of the periods seems to be 
inherited ; some genetic strains have longer-period natural rhythms in 
these constant conditions than others. One strain whose rhythmicity 
has been studied very extensively possesses a 28-hour cycle. 

The clocks of man are simply instruments with built-in cyclic 
changes corresponding to the length of the natural daily cycle, and 
by their appropriate divisions into hours, minutes, and seconds, enable 
us to know at any given instant at just what point in the daily cycle 
we have arrived. The daily cycles of living things are often referred 
to as depending upon "biological clocks," since the daily rhythms of 
all living things imply the possession by the organism of a means of 
measuring accurately the period of the day. 



396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

By the same token, living things seem also to possess a basic timing 
mechanism indicating the lengths of lunar periods, or a "Imiar clock." 
And since a number of living things are known also in constant condi- 
tions to measure periods of annual length, they appear also to have 
"annual clocks." These last two kinds of "clocks" we treat m our 
annual calendars with their monthly divisions. Therefore, living 
things behave as if they possessed both "clocks" and "calendars" by 
means of which many vital processes are appropriately timed even 
in the absence of such well-known daily, monthly, and annual changes 
as those of illumination and temperature. 

The characteristics of the rhytlimicity in living things of the kind 
that have just been described led many investigators of the phenom- 
enon many years ago to the conclusion that living things possess within 
themselves clock mechanisms that would permit them, when isolated 
from all environmental changes which were conceded to be able to 
influence them, to measure off accurately periods closely corresponding 
to the lengths of the solar day, and other natural periods. In other 
words, there was postulated to be operating in living things a com- 
pletely independent complex of rhythms which paralleled in their 
natural periods the complex known for the external physical environ- 
ment. This view was entertained despite the fact that certain skeptics 
of this view had demonstrated over the years that there were circum- 
stances in which the rhythms of living things could not be shown 
in constant conditions. Stoppel could not observe them in a basement 
in Iceland during the time of the midnight sun; Cremer could not 
find them in a deep salt mine in Germany, nor Hempel and Hempel 
in Lapland during the time of the midnight sun. The investigators 
who discovered these very interesting exceptions claimed or implied 
that the rhythm in the bean seedling or insects which they used 
depended upon rhythmic changes in the environment which still, in 
some manner, pervade all ordinary so-called laboratory constant con- 
ditions. Under these special circumstances, the rhytlimic external 
factor was postulated to be not present. 

But biologists, like other scientists, are human and often not always 
quite as fully objective as is commonly believed. It was for them 
easier to rationalize objections to the way an experiment was con- 
ducted, or to claim correctly that no one had yet confirmed the experi- 
ment, than to abandon a hypothesis which, except for these little 
disrupting facts, provided a consistent view. 

At any event, all the evidence at hand seems to suggest the posses- 
sion by living things of a rhythmic phenomenon superficially resem- 
bling a recording system with about one complete circuit per day. 
This system appears capable of having any form of behavior pattern 
impressed upon it, whereafter it keeps repeating this pattern until 
either it fades away or some new pattern is made to replace it. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 397 

Sucli a resemblance to a recording system was lucidly shown by 
Professor Btinning for the bean seedling. If we have a bean seedling 
displaying in constant low light a daily sleep rhythm, drooping its 
leaves at night, and now give it a brief brighter light stimulus during 
the nighttime phase, we see that not only does the light cause a momen- 
tary brief elevation of the leaf but now the plant continues to do it 
day after day at the same time even in constant darkness. From the 
standpoint of rhythmicity, the basic question is, what keeps the re- 
cording system going at an essentially uniform speed, sometimes quite 
precisely one circuit per day? One widely held view, as has been 
mentioned earlier, is that the living thing possesses within itself some 
machinery for measuring off quite independently from the environ- 
m^ent periods of time, but since all known living machinery is pre- 
dominantly chemical in nature, this would clearly have to depend 
upon the rates of chemical reactions. 

There is a very general rule, the van't Hoff rule, applying equally 
to chemical reactions and to living processes, which states that as the 
temperature rises, the rate of chemical processes speeds up, and as we 
lower temperature, the rate slows down. The rate of biological 
processes usually more than doubles for every 18° F. rise in tempera- 
ture. This law is the basis of the universal use of refrigerators to 
reduce the rate of food spoilage or bacterial decay. Now if the 
rhythmic timing mechanism were biochemical and wholly inside the 
organism, one would expect a speeding up of the rhythm with in- 
creasing temperature, and a slowing down with decreasing tempera- 
ture. For example, if at 70° F. the period of the rhythm was 24 hours, 
at 90° F. we would expect it to be about 8 or 10 hours and at 50° F. 
about 50 hours. Wlien we studied critically this problem with fiddler 
crabs about 10 years ago, we found to our amazement that through a 
wide range of temperature the period of the rhythm remained the 
same, precisely 24 hours. The animals had available some method of 
time measuring that was independent of temperature, a phenomenon 
quite inexplicable in any currently known mechanisms of physiology, 
or, in view of tlie long period lengths, even of chemical reaction 
kinetics. Following this discovery it was rapidly shown in our lab- 
oratory and in those of others that the daily cycles of other animals 
and plants were similarly temperature independent. The most 
spectacular recent demonstration of temperature independence in- 
volved a study of dried plant seeds. These have been shown to have 
an annual rhythm in their capacity to germinate even when stored in 
constant conditions. BUnning and his associates in Germany recently 
found that dried seeds showed an accurate annual rhythm whether 
they were stored at 3° heloio zero F. or at 120° F. At the former 
temperature, 35° below the freezing point of water, all vital processes 
would normally have been expected to be at least temporarily halted. 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

There are also many powerful drugs and poisons which are known 
to slow down living processes greatly. One of these is cyanide. None 
of these ordinary depressing drugs, though the doses may be so great 
as barely to permit the organism to survive following their removal, 
will in any manner slow down the rhythms. These extraordinary 
relative immunities of the rhythms of plants and animals to tempera- 
ture and drugs certainly begin to strain one's confidence that they are 
wholly inside the living things. And what sort of autonomous series 
of reactions could possibly be imagined in which the organism, with 
all its transformations occurring during that year, could possibly 
provide information as to just when one year had elapsed, even when 
not harrassed by drugs or freezing temperatures ? Even a comparably 
resistant 24-hour cyclic mechanism is virtually impossible to conceive 
in any conventional terms of chemistry or biology. 

And philosopliically it is very difficult to imagine the living organ- 
ism as possessing an internal clock, wholly independent of all external 
factors, of the remarkable absolute precision it must have to account 
for the rhythmicities. On the other hand, if the organism had, even 
while in the so-called "constant conditions," daily, lunar, and annual 
rhythms being impressed upon it by external physical factors, these 
might constitute the fundamental clock system which could pace, or 
provide reference rhythms, for the labile biological rhythms possess- 
ing approximately the same frequencies. Some biologists, forgetting 
that they first made the quite arbitrary assumption that the biological 
rhythmic processes and the clocks which time them are one and the 
same thing, claim as already proven that the clocks need no external 
information through the demonstration that the rhythms are freely 
modifiable and often have periods other than the natural ones. It 
might be recalled, however, that using our ordinary pocket or wrist 
watches, set to the correct time of day and running at their usual speed, 
we can readily change the pattern of a precise daily behavior pattern, 
or time accurately a 22- or a 26-hour rhythmically recurring event, 
both of which capacities we would probably lose forthwith were our 
watches suddenly to be taken from us. 

The temperature independence of the frequencies of the organismic 
rhythms was a very difficult fact for physiologists to credit, especially 
since the general consensus was that the timing of the cycles was exclu- 
sively inside the organisms. This was an apparent evasion of a time- 
honored rule of physiology. But this spectacular fact became demon- 
strated unequivocally so easily and in so many laboratories that it was 
necessary that the problem be faced. The reaction of most investiga- 
tors was to begin to postulate various kinds of hypothetical mecha- 
nisms by which organisms might have internal clocks that would per- 
haps do this. A few such speculations have been advanced in the 
literature of the past two years. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 399 

In our laboratory, where the complete temyerature indepeTidence 
was first demonstrated and its implications stressed, our reaction was 
different from that of the others. It seemed to us that the phenomenon 
was so extraordinary that perhaps still another of the sacred tenets 
of physiology was invalid. This other one was the fundamental 
premise of the experimental physiologist that when he keeps his 
organisms in constant illumination, temperature, humidity, and all 
other factors he has conceded to influence them, the organism is truly 
in constant conditions. So time revered was tliis view that even to 
question it seemed a sacrilege. And we knew when we did it that the 
opposition of tradition would be tremendous to overcome. 

In a sense the view that we took was simply a more sophisticated 
one of the type taken by the numerous skeptics of a decade or more 
ago, when told of the persistence of rhythms in constant conditions. 
They doubted that the investigator had really controlled all daily 
fluctuating factors as well as he thought he had. 

An experiment we performed with oysters had raised similar doubts 
in our minds, too. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service had shipped 
us a batch of healthy oysters they had collected in New Haven Harbor. 
Since the tides are, you recall, of lunar-day frequency, we studied in 
the oysters the time of lunar day of maximum opening of their shells 
for feeding in pans of sea water in a photographic darkroom in 
Evanston. For about the first two weeks they opened their shells 
most at the time of high tide in New Haven Harbor; then they ap- 
peared to forget their home tidal times and for the next two fortnights 
they opened their shells almost at the times of lunar zenith and nadir 
in Evanston, a 3-hour time change. These new times were the times 
of maximum gravitational attraction by the moon as it produces the 
well-known limar tides of our atmosphere. 

In order to examine further the question as to whether the external 
factors were actually controlled, we sought a biological process which 
was common to every living thing. For this we selected metabolism. 
Metabolism underlies all animal and plant activities and thus we were 
no longer limited to the study of special forms. The rate of metab- 
olism could be measured by the rate at which the living thing used 
oxygen. Also, the higher the rate of metabolism, other factors being 
equal, the greater the amount of spontaneous activity displayed by 
an animal, and hence we could also measure metabolic rate by studying 
spontaneous activity. It did not require a very long initial study 
to demonstrate beyond all reasonable doubt that living things, even 
while in so-called constant conditions, had access to outside infor- 
mation as to the time of day (or position of the sun), time of lunar 
day (or position of the moon), time of lunar month, and even time 
of year. 

636608—60 27 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

I shall not try my readers with either the detailed methods of study 
or the mathematics of the analysis, but shall simply summarize for 
you some of the principal facts. The most complete of our studies 
have been done on young potato plants, small pieces of potatoes with 
sprouting eyes prepared as illustrated in figure 4. Occasionally, while 
being studied in our recording apparatus, they even developed new 
potatoes. Potatoes were selected for this study for two reasons: (1) 
The potato tuber is essentially a generous reservoir of stored food, 
and hence there was no problem of feeding the organisms while they 
were sealed for long periods in constant, dark conditions; and (2) 
these seemed about as inauspicious a living thing as one could expect 
to find as far as rhythms were concerned. Briefer, parallel studies 
with other plants and animals have suggested that what we have found 
for the potato holds in a general manner for all other living things 
as well. 

It is well known that there are solar and lunar tides of the atmos- 
phere. These are reflected in rhythms of barometric pressure change. 
In the daily cycle (the upper curve in fig. 5A), the pressure, on the 
average, always rises during the early morning hours to a high about 
10 o'clock and then falls to the low point of the day, during the middle 
to late afternoon, the time of the low point depending on the time of 
year. This is a precise average 24-hour rhythm. The potato has 
similarly a precise average 24-hour cycle of metabolism (the solid line 
of the lower curves in fig. 5A) with a minimum rate at midnight and a 
maximum rate at 6 in the afternoon. This average daily cycle can 
be shown to include the average of two kinds of daily oscillations: 
the dashed AA'A'' and the dotted BB'B'' ones in figure 5A. Both the 
barometric-pressure cycles and the potato cycles exhibit irregularities 
from day to day. The barometric-pressure cycles are distorted by 




Figure 4. — Method of obtaining the potato plants used in the study of metabolic cycles. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 401 





Figure 5. — A, The general form of the daily barometric pressure cycle during a summer 
month (upper curve), and the mean daily cycle of potato O2 consumption (lower curve). 
B, A comparison of the day-to-day changes in metabolism of both potatoes and sala- 
manders with the concurrent barometric pressure changes. 

large changes due to still unknown forces, which are associated with 
weather changes. The important fact for us here is that the potato 
is informed of how fast the pressure is rising in the morning and 
falling in the afternoon. This we know, first, because how high, or 
how low, the potato metabolism is at 6 in the morning (points A or B 
fig. 5A) of any given day is simply related to how fast the barometric 
pressure was changing from 2 to 6 the preceding morning. And, 
secondly, how high the rate of metabolism in the potato is at 6 in the 
evening of any given day is related to how fast the barometric pres- 
sure was changing from 2 to 6 the preceding afternoon. 

Hence the potato in the form of its daily metabolic fluctuation, 
even in constant conditions of pressure, through being hermetically 
sealed in rigid containers, is in effect informing us through indicating 
in its metabolic changes what the weather distortions were in the 
regular pressure cycle of yesterday. And whatever the means by 
which this information reaches the potato, the same information is pro- 
viding the potato, figuratively speaking, with information as to what 
the weather-associated barometric pressure will be the day after to- 
morrow, by the height of the afternoon peak of metabolic rate. This 
is tending to trace out the form of the barometric pressure changes but 
doing so two days in advance. This is illustrated by the month-long 
study of potatoes and salamanders shown in figure 5B. Notice how 
both kinds of living things generally vary inversely with the baro- 
metric pressure change (bottom curve), but both tend to anticipate 
the pressure changes by an average of 2 days. In fact, every living 



402 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



thing studied in our laboratory during the past 3 years — from carrots 
to seaweed, and from crabs and oysters to rats — has shown this 
capacity to predict very safely beyond chance the barometric pressure 
changes usually 2 days in advance. It is interesting to contemplate 
the problem of a meteorologist sealed, incommunicado, for weeks or 
months in constant conditions, and asked to give 2-day weather pre- 
dictions — or for that matter even to tell you the weather today. 

The potatoes also indicate to us that they are, while sealed in 
constant conditions, obtaining information about another well-known 
environmental daily rhythm, namely that of high-energy background 
radiation. This is so penetrating that it pervades all ordinary build- 
ings and containers. This radiation is highest about 6 in the morning 
and lowest between noon and 6 p.m. The daily range, or cycle ampli- 
tude, in the radiation, though averaging about 2 percent, varies greatly 
and unpredictably from day to day. The potato cycles also show 
variable total range, or amplitudes, from day to day. But the 
amplitude of the potato cycles on a given day is very clearly related 
to the amplitude of the background radiation cycle the day before. 
The greater the fluctuation in radiation yesterday, the greater the 
fluctuation in metabolism today. 

The potato sealed in constant conditions also obtains information 
as to the outdoor air temperature. As clearly seen in figure 6, the 
higher the outdoor temperature up to about 57° F., the higher the 
amplitude of the daily metabolic fluctuations. This relationship is 
reversed for higher temperatures. As everyone knows, there are 
clear daily and annual rhythms in air temperature. 

The potato in constant conditions also exhibited a lunar monthly 
rhythm of metabolism during a full-year period of study. As seen 
in figure 7A, the rate was lowest at the time of new moon and highest 




10 20 30 40 50 60 70 

ATMOSPHERIC TEMPERATURE "F 



Figure 6. — Relationship between percentage cliange in metabolic rate of potatoes between 
midnight and noon, and the outside air temperature. 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 403 




DAYS OF MONTH 



z 
















3 




B 




SUN 








UJ 01 

5 








O 








[_ 


FM 




3RD Q 


Ntvl\ 




1ST Q. 


FM 


I z 


\ 




\ 


•\ 


\ 


D 


( 


1- o 


_\ 


V' 


.\.. 


Jiv 


A 


_> 


2 5 


— v 


\ 


t 2 




\ 




\^ 


\ 


\ 


\ 








//^ 


(<»''^' 


\\\ 


























// 


^f"" 




\\ 


V 


Ul 






// 










< 








- " .••■■ 




'■■ 


\\ 


a. 






' / ••'■ 








V'\. 


o 




• _.■' 








'■■■ v^ 


_i 




// / 


..■■■' 








■\\ 


o 




t / 










''■.\ 


m 




{'■—'' 










■\ 


< 
















1- 
















LJ 
















5 

















6AM NOON 6 PM 



Figure 7. — A, The variation In average metabolic rate in the potato with time of the lunar 
month. B, The change in form of the average daily metabolic fluctuation with day of 
the month. 

at the time of third quarter. The rate of metabolism was 20 percent 
higher at third quarter than at new moon. There was also a monthly 
cycle in the form of the daily cycles. As seen by the dotted curve in 
figure 7B, the daily cycles were depressed during the morning hours, 
at the time of new moon, and, as shown by the solid line, quite sym- 
metrical and high, with a maximum at noon, at the time of the third 
quarter. The smi is, obviously, always at its highest point in the 
sky at noon. The time of day the moon is highest depends on the 
time of month. Over full moon, it is midnight ; over new moon it is 
noon. These changes in the form of the daily cycles through the 
month seem logical if we think of the sun and moon having qualita- 
tively the same effect on metabolism, the maximum accelerating action 
of each on metabolism occurring about 6 hours later than the time it 
reaches its zenith in the sky. 

An annual cycle in the form of the daily cycles was also found to 
exist in constant conditions. The average monthly values for two 
years of study are shown in figure 8A. The cycles were lowest in 
amplitude in January and February, and highest in September, Oc- 
tober, and November during both years. There was also an annual 
cycle in general metabolic rate in the constant conditions (fig. 8B). 
The highest rate occurred in May, and was about twice that seen in the 
lowest month, October. 

Collectively these facts provide incontrovertible evidence that even 
when we have thought we have excluded all forces influencing the 
living things, there is, nonetheless, cyclic information, unquestionably 




(M 



(5> OO 

3iva 



Dn09V13lA| 



iT) 




-AON .S 



d3S 



inr 



-AVI^ 



-avi^ -^ 



t> 


6 


^ 




•t-> 


a 


^ 










cx 


<J 


^ 


o 



-Nvr 



N0llVlA3a NOO 






fe 



RHYTHMIC NATURE OF ANIIHALS AND PLANTS — BROWN 405 

with all the natural periodicities of the atmosphere imbedded in it, 
still impressing itself upon the organism. Living things might con- 
ceivably possess inherited, regular rhythms, but it is quite incon- 
ceivable that they are born with an inherited plan of all the erratic 
temperature, barometric-pressure, and background-radiation fluctua- 
tions which are to occur during their lifetime. So far we don't know 
what the specific nature of the factor or factors may be which are 
directly effective on the living organism. This is one of the most 
important and exciting problems before us in our continuing research. 
But to suggest further that the forces involved in our problem may 
be in part determined by other forces arriving on our earth even from 
outside of our own solar system, we have obtained some striking simi- 
larities of our biological metabolic rhythms, with fluctuations in cosmic 
radiation raining on our outer atmosphere predominantly from dis- 
tant outer space. This discovery was the outcome of a comparison of 
metabolic daily cycles in potatoes, seaweed, and fiddler crabs during 
the spring and summer of the two years, 1954 and 1955. Between these 
two years, the daily metabolic cycles of all three species seemed to 
have, in good measure, turned upside down. In the fiddler crabs, for 
example (as shown in the upper solid curve in fig. 9, the highest rate 
of metabolism for the day in July 1954 was about 2 p.m. ; in July 
1955, as seen in the lower solid curve of figure 9, this was near the time 
of day of the lowest rate in the daily metabolic cycles. In searcliing 
for a possible dijfference that might have occurred in some subtle 
external physical factor between the two years, some data upon the 
fluctuations in cosmic radiation occurring at the specific times of these 




Figure 9. — Comparison of the average daily cycles of cosmic radiation (broken lines) and 
fiddler crab metabolism (solid lines) for a single summer month in each year, 1954 (upper 
pair of curves) and 1955 (lower pair of curves). 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITXJTION, 1959 

studies were lent to me by Professor Simpson of the Enrico Fermi 
Institute of the University of Chicago. It was clearly evident that 
just as the crab daily cycles seemed to have been inverted between 
these two specific periods of study, so had the cosmic-ray cycles for 
the same two periods (the two broken-line curves) . And furthermore, 
the general forms of the crab and radiation cycles were striking mir- 
ror images of one another. Similarly with the potatoes and seaweed, 
the forms of the metabolic cycles we had measured seemed clearly 
related in some manner to the cosmic-ray cycles. 

It is obvious that the specific forms of these cosmic-ray cycles could 
not have become evident to the living things in terms of fluctuations 
in any physical factors which are commonly conceded to influence 
them, such as light, humidity, and temperature. This would hold true 
even were the organisms exposed to the natural fluctuations of an 
open meadow. Clearly then, there must be still unidentified physical 
factors affecting life. And it now seems reasonable to postulate that 
these latter factors are very important to the living things in the timing 
of their rhythmic processes, or, in other words, in the operation of 
their clocks and calendars. 

The thesis supported in this article, namely, that during the timing 
of cycle lengths of the rhythms in animals and plants in so-called 
"constant conditions" the organisms are still continuously receiving 
from the external environment information about the natural geo- 
physical cycles, removes some of the romantic glamour inherent in 
the alternative view, that all living things must possess within them 
uncannily accurate clocks capable of measuring, independently, 
periods ranging in length from the day to the year. On the other 
hand, its implications are tremendous with respect to the potentialities 
involved through the demonstration that living things are sensitively 
responding to additional kinds of stimuli at energy levels so low that 
we have hitherto considered the living organism completely oblivious 
of them. These latter potentialities may soon loom importantly in 
many areas of biology and medicine, especially in such problems as 
animal navigation and behavior. 

The demonstration that the physical environment of living things 
is organized temporally in terms of still unknown subtle and highly 
pervasive forces which the living organisms can resolve encourages 
one to speculate that there may be some comparable subtle and per- 
vasive spatial organization of the environment which is contributing 
at least in a small way toward accounting for geographical distribu- 
tions or periodic migrations of organisms. 



The Survival of Animals in Hot Deserts ^ 



By E. B. Edney 

Professor of Zoology 

University College of Rhodesia and Nyasaland 

Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia 



Mt aim in this lecture is to consider the difficulties which confront 
animals living in hot dry environments, and to try to answer the 
question as to why some animals are more successful than others in 
overcoming them. The problems for all are the same : liow to prevent 
desiccation and how to keep cool. But the solutions are various, and 
depend upon the morphological and physiological equipment of the 
animals concerned. 

The process of keeping cool may involve loss of water. But water 
in hot climates may be in short supply, and in any case water loss is 
necessarily incurred in such vital processes as respiration, excretion, 
lactation (in mammals), egg production, and so forth, A conflict is 
therefore immediately apparent between the necessity to conserve 
water for vital processes and to transpire water for cooling. It will 
be part of my purpose to see how these opposing needs are brought 
into equilibrium in different kinds of animals. 

Now the problems confronting animals in hot deserts are essentially 
the same as some of the problems experienced in a less acute form by 
all terrestrial animals during their evolution from water to land life. 
We must therefore see the former problem in a wider setting, and take 
the discussion in two stages. First, we may review, in fairly general 
terms, the problems of terrestrial life, and note how different groups 
of animals have tackled them. Second, in the light of this informa- 
tion, we may consider in greater detail the solutions of the more acute 
problems posed by extreme terrestrial conditions. 

There have been major invasions of the land by three great phyla — 
vertebrates, arthropods, and mollusks — as well as minor invasions by 
other animals such as flatworms and annelid worms. Within the 
arthopods there has certainly been more than one invasion. Insects 
and spiders probably emerged separately; crustaceans certainly 



* Inaugural lecture given In the University College of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. Re- 
printed by permission of the College and the Oxford University Press. 

407 



408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

emerged more recently, and in several distinct groups. Because of 
their different evolutionary histories, each of these groups of animals 
has a different set of potentialities for life on land. We shall try to 
assess the significance of these differences. 

THE PROBLEMS OF LAND LIFE 

What are the problems concerned in the evolution of a land fauna ? 
The comparatively rare medium, air, affords no support for the body, 
and calls for a complete reorganization of the means of locomotion. 
Gills, which are very efficient organs of respiration in water, collapse 
in air and present too small a surface for the uptake of oxygen, so 
that respiratory organs have to be remodeled. The respiratory mem- 
branes themselves, however, must be kept moist and thin, because 
oxygen does not diffuse rapidly enough through a dry integument. 

Changes in metabolic machinery, too, are necessary. Thus, the waste 
products of nitrogen metabolism can most economically be excreted 
as ammonia, and aquatic animals use this method, for although am- 
monia is highly toxic, plenty of water is available to flush it away. 
On dry land, w^ater is not so plentiful, and ammonia cannot be used. 

The simple process of discharging large numbers of reproductive 
cells into the environment for external fertilization must be replaced 
by internal fertilization, which in turn demands complicated behavior 
patterns to insure association of the sexes. The eggs of land animals, 
once fertilized, cannot be discharged and left to fend for themselves. 
They would dry up. Therefore they must be enclosed in impermeable 
shells and provided with food and with metabolic machinery for con- 
verting ammonia into nontoxic and preferably insoluble subtances 
which can be stored during the period of incubation. 

The fact that air is hardly ever saturated with water vapor, and 
is often rather dry, means that a terrestrial animal is in danger of 
losing water continuously by evaporation. 

Finally, the terrestrial environment is one in which changes in 
temperature and humidity occur over a much wider range and more 
rapidly than they do in water. These changes must be tolerated, 
controlled, or avoided. 

Let us now consider how these problems have been solved by 
different kinds of animals. 

RESPIRATION 

The vertebrates solved the problem of respiration in two stages — 
first the amphibians developed an internal lung, which was rather 
inefficient and had to be supplemented by cutaneous respiration. 
This involved a moist skin. Then the reptiles perfected the lung 
and consequently could afford to develop an impermeable integinnent. 

Respiration in land arthropods is carried out in a number of dif- 
ferent ways. Insects, perhaps the most successful group, have 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 409 

evolved the liighly efficient tracheal system. This consists of numer- 
ous branching tubules leading air directly to all parts of the body 
from a small number of external openings, the spiracles, which are 
capable of being closed. Occlusion of the spiracles reduces loss of 
water from inside the tracheae when the insect is at rest and oxygen 
is required only in small quantities. Because of this respiratory 
system it has been possible to reduce cutaneous absorption of oxygen 
to a minimum, so that tlie integument need not be permeable to 
water and is, in fact, efficiently waterproofed. Although the total 
surface area of the animal is of the order of 5,000 times greater than 
that of the spiracular openings, as much as 60 to 70 percent of the 
total water lost by transpiration passes through the spiracles. 

Spiders, another very successful group of arthropods, have not 
developed the tracheal system very effectively, and they rely upon 
"book lungs" (the term is self-explanatory) situated in pits whose 
openmgs can also be closed. The system is good enougli to provide 
for normal oxygen requirements, and the integument can be water- 
proofed ; but spiders cannot indulge in long bursts of great activity 
because they raj^idly run out of oxygen. 

Anotlier class of arthropods with pretensions to land life are the 
Crustacea, and these animals present a very different picture. They 
have never evolved an effective respiratory system for use on land. 
Woodlice absorb oxygen througli external, leaflike organs which are 
but little modified from the gills of their aquatic relatives. Tran- 
spiration from the gills constitutes some 40 percent of the total tran- 
spiration, and the absolute rate of transpiration is mucli higher than 
it is in insects. Some woodlice, indeed, have developed short bunches 
of internal tubules in the gills, and these are the most "terrestrial" 
of the group. But in all of them absorption of oxygen also occurs 
through the general body surface, and the integument is much more 
permeable to water than is tliat of insects. This is true only in humid 
air, however; otlierwise the outer layers of tlie skin become too dry, 
and measurements show that the effect of exposure to very dry air 
may be to cause death by asphyxiation rather than by desiccation 
(Edney and Spencer, 1955) . 

NITROGEN EXCRETION 

As regards nitrogen excretion, an interesting relation between the 
availability of water in the habitat (particularly during embryonic 
development) and the nature of the end product has been pointed out 
by several authors (Needham, 1929 ; Delaunay, 1931) . 

We have seen that in land animals the waste products of nitrogen 
metabolism camiot be excreted as ammonia because this is a highly 
toxic and highly soluble substance. More wasteful methods have to 
be adopted, and ammonia is converted into urea, uric acid, or other 



410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

product even thougli this means wasting valuable carbon. Ammonia 
contains no carbon, urea contains one atom of carbon to every two 
of nitrogen excreted, and uric acid contains five carbon atoms for 
eveiy four of nitrogen excreted. But there is less hydrogen in rela- 
tion to nitrogen in a molecule of urea than in ammonia, and still 
less in uric acid. By substituting urea or uric acid for ammonia, 
water is saved, and this is the most important consideration. Fur- 
thermore, both urea and uric acid are nontoxic, and the latter is also 
nearly insoluble in water, so that no free water is needed for its 
elimination. 

The principle may be illustrated by a few examples. Lungfish 
are normally ammonotelic, that is, they excrete ammonia; but when 
they aestivate in dry mud, and water is short, they excrete urea. 
The semiterrestrial Amphibia are ureotelic (excreting urea), but their 
larvae, which are fully aquatic, excrete ammonia, and the African 
genus Xenopus^ which is aquatic in the adult stage as well, remains 
ammonotelic throughout its life. Birds and reptiles are uricotelic 
(excreting uric acid). They develop the necessary metabolic ma- 
chinery by necessity in the Q,gg stage, when insoluble uric acid has 
much to be said in its favor, and retain the system throughout their 
lives. Mammals, during their embryonic stages, have the advantage 
of a good supply of water in the blood of the parent, and they use 
urea as the end product of nitrogen metabolism throughout life. Ac- 
cording to Needham (1935), gastropods exemplify the principle very 
well — marine and fresh- water forms store but little uric acid, inter- 
mediate littoral forms store rather more, and terrestrial forms most. 

Insects excrete uric acid. This process may again have been im- 
posed by the cleidoic ^gg^ but it serves these animals in the adult state 
remarkably well, and insects which live in dry surromidings lose 
hardly any water as a result of nitrogen excretion. Spiders use a 
similarly insoluble nitrogen compound, guanin, which serves the same 
purpose. 

Nitrogen excretion, then, is one of the numerous examples which 
demonstrate evolution at a physiological level. But, like so many 
generalizations in biological science, the principle does not cover all 
the known cases. Thus woodlice, which are terrestrial Crustacea, 
and which might therefore be expected to excrete urea or even uric 
acid, do not do so. Most of their waste nitrogen is ammonia. One 
wonders why, particularly as the enzyme chain leading to the forma- 
tion of uric acid is present, for indeed a little uric acid is formed, 
though more is found in the fmsh-water genus Asellus than in ter- 
restrial isopods. 

TRANSPIRATION 

We may now consider another source of water loss associated with 
life on land: transpiration from the general body surface. In this 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 411 

connection the significance of size, which will increasingly concern 
us in what follows, becomes apparent. 

In large animals little importance need be attached to the preven- 
tion of water loss by evaporation, because a given rate of evaporation 
per unit area can proceed for a longer time in a large animal than 
in a small one before the total water content falls to a lethal level. 
A flea could tolerate a transpiration rate of 5 mg./cm.Vhour for about 
15 minutes before losing 10 percent of its water, but a man could 
tolerate 4,500 times tliis rate of loss for a similar period and suffer 
the same proportional loss of water. 

It is not surprising, therefore, to find that insects have developed 
a highly efficient method of waterproofing their integument. Insects 
have a very long terrestrial history, and their origins are obscure, 
but in this group physiological adaptations have been perfected and 
refined as far as possible within the general arthropod pattern. The 
integument has been waterproofed by means of a very thin but prob- 
ably continuous layer of a waxlike substance composed of a mixture 
of paraffins and alcohols with carbon chain lengths from about 8 
upward. Since Wigglesworth (1945) first demonstrated the presence 
of these cuticular waxes, there has been much work and speculation 
devoted to finding out their nature and properties. At first it was 
thought that they underwent a rather sudden physical change, which 
permitted much higher rates of transpiration above a characteristic 
critical temperature. This was held to represent a form of tempera- 
ture control. However, recent work suggests that there is no sudden 
increase in permeability with temperature (Holdgate and Seal, 1956 ; 
Mead-Briggs, 1956), but a gradual one over the range, and that at 
biologically significant temperatures the rate of transpiration is too 
low to contribute greatly to cooling.^ There is still very much to be 
discovered about the nature of these waterproofing substances. We 
do not even know whether the rise in permeability with temperature 
is due to a progressive "melting" of the constituents or to simple 
physical properties known to be associated with activated diffusion 
through inanimate membranes, or both. However, it is true to say 
that if the insect integument were permeable, no amount of water 
conservation by other means would be of any avail. 

It is instructive to compare the situation in insects with that in 
woodlice, whose evolutionary history is very different. Woodlice 
arrived on land comparatively recently — the earliest fossils date from 
the Upper Eocene, some 60 million years ago — while insects occur 
as far back as the Devonian, some 300 million years ago. Woodlice, 
though they are the only crustaceans whose entire life is spent on 



2 Since this was first written, Beament (1959) has obtained further evidence in favor 
of a "critical temperature." 



412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

land, are still limited by crustacean anatomical and physiological 
systems. No wax layer lias been successfully demonstrated in the 
integument ; neither does the latter show any increase in permeability 
with rising temperature. Transpiration rates are generally a good 
deal higher than in most insects. 

KEEPING COOL 

Associated with transpiration is still another problem posed by life 
on land — that is the problem of existence at extreme temperatures. 
There are several ways of dealing with high temperatures. They 
may be avoided by living in a cryptozoic niche below the ground, 
under crevices, in caves, and so forth. This procedure is open only 
to small animals and is, in any case, a confession of failure. Alterna- 
tively, they may simply be tolerated, and this is one of the best solu- 
tions for small animals. Thus some insects can witlistand 
temperatures as high as 60° C. (140° F.) for 20 minutes, and many 
can withstand temperatures well above 40° C. (104° F.) for long 
periods. Neither of these devices involves loss of water. 

The most satisfactory solution is to control the body temperature 
at a fixed level, as the higher vertebrates, birds and mammals, have 
done. This of course involves loss of water by transpiration, and 
the solution is open only to animals above a certain size, as the fol- 
lowmg considerations show. Assuming that each square meter of the 
surface of an animal must evaporate 0.6 kg. of water per hour to 
maintain the temperature constant in warm dry air, a value which 
has been found for animals weighing from 96 to 16 kg. (Dill, Bock, 
and Edwards, 1933 ; Adolph and Dill, 1938) , then the percentage of 
the total body weight lost per hour can be calculated approximately, 
and the answer varies from 0.77 percent (camel) to 105 percent (wood- 
lice) (fig. 1). Clearly no animal can lose 105 percent of its weight 
per hour for long, so that this method of keeping cool is available only 
for large animals. 

A rather unsatisfactory compromise, open to small animals with 
permeable skins, is to use the evaporation of water to cool the body 
for short, critical periods. This is in no sense temperature regula- 
tion; it is the inevitable result of having a permeable skin, for at 
high temperatures the rate of transpiration rises owing to the greater 
drying power of the air, and the difference between body tempera- 
ture and ambient temperature is therefore greater. Such an effect has 
been observed in several land animals, including amphibians, mol- 
lusks, worms, and woodlice. 

WATER ECONOMY— A SYNTHESIS 

Let us now attempt something of a synthesis, in order to appreci- 
ate the significance of these various sources of water loss. In partic- 



^ 1 

5 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 413 

3r 



iWoodlouse 00002 kg. (105*/.) 



^ouse 0021 kg. (21 57<.) 
Ral 1 kg. (12-8'/.) 

Rabbit 2 kg. (4 77*/.) 



1_ 



Dog 16 kg. (238*/.) 

Man 70kg. ( 1-47 •/.j'XiJ-QDo n key 95 kg. (1 33*/J 

cornel 500 kg. (0 77°/.) 



3 2 1 

Log Body wei gh t 



Figure 1. — The relation between body weight and the amount of water which must evap- 
orate per hour from the body to preserve a constant temperature in desert conditions. 
(Date in part from Schmidt-Nielsen, 1954.) 

ular we want to know whether or not each source of loss is mevitable, 
and whether it is harmful or beneficial. 

Loss of water associated with nitrogen excretion is the only one 
that has no possible compensation. The heat loss involved in evap- 
oration is in this case of no use to the animal, for evaporation occurs 
at a distance from the body. 

Water loss from the respiratory surfaces is inevitable. It may 
be reduced to a minimum if the respiratory surfaces are tucked away 
within the body and are capable of occlusion, as they are in insects and 
spiders ; but where the respiratory membranes are external, as in wood- 
lice, or where there is a ventilated respiratory system, as in verte- 
brates, the loss of water is considerable. Most land vertebrates are 
compelled to ventilate the respiratory membranes on account of their 
size, and in mammals and birds because of the high metabolic rate 
necessary to support a constant high temperature. But this source 
of loss may have its compensations, for evaporation of water occurs 
at the surface of the respiratory membranes, and therefore with- 
draws heat from the body itself. 

A small loss of water by transpiration from the general body sur- 
face is also inevitable, for no integument is entirely impermeable to 
water. In small animals surface transpiration must be reduced as 
far as possible if the animals are to exist in dry habitat. If trans- 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

piration is not reduced, surface cooling may occur and be taken 
advantage of, but the animals will be confined to the cryptozoic niche. 
Larger animals can afford surface transpiration, and in normal en- 
vironments this may be used as a temperature-regulating mechanism. 

It seems, then, that three interdependent variables have to be con- 
sidered: an animal's size, the nature of its respiratory system, and 
the permeability of its integument. We should expect that while 
certain combinations of these factors would permit life in fully ter- 
restrial conditions, other combinations would forbid it. Thus small 
size combined with an occlusible respiratory system and an imper- 
meable integument is a satisfactory combination for land life; large 
size, a ventilated respiratory system, and a permeable integument is 
also satisfactory, but other combinations are not. To these inter- 
dependent factors must be added a number of others which are not 
interdependent — that is to say, their optimum value lies always at one 
end of the range. Thus it is always advantageous in hot dry sur- 
roundings to lose as little water with nitrogen excretion as possible, 
and it is always advantageous to have a high upper lethal tempera- 
ture. Optimum values of these factors are, of course, not always 
attainable. The evolutionary history of an animal may forbid it. 
Thus a mammal owes its success to homoeothermy — constant tem- 
perature — and to permit the body temperature to rise as high as it 
may in some insects would adversely affect the whole organization. 
Wlien this happens, the delicate mechanism of the brain is the first to 
suffer. 

Before we examine the validity of these principles in real situations, 
something must be said of the other side of the picture, that is, gain 
of water. This may be achieved by straightforward drinking, when 
water is available, or by taking in water with the food. A few animals 
can absorb water by rectum (some woodlice do this) or through 
the skin. But these are comparatively unimportant for our purpose. 

A few arthropods can absorb water vapor from unsaturated air. 
This is a remarkable and rather rare phenomenon, but one which may 
have a wider significance in water conservation than is apparent. It 
has been reported in ticks and certain beetle larvae in air with a 
relative humidity of 80 percent or above, and in flea larvae in even 
drier air (references in Edney, 1957). Now the osmotic pressure 
of the body fluids of insects and ticks is in equilibrium with air at 
about 99 percent relative humidity. There can therefore be no ques- 
tion of water flowing down an osmotic gradient. The mechanism of 
this active transport has not been demonstrated, but a further piece of 
information may be relevant. There is some evidence, obtained by 
the use of heavy w^ater, that water in the body fluids of an insect is in 
continuous interchange with water vapor in the air outside. If this 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 415 

were confirmed, it would seem that besides the known effect of evapo- 
ration in removing water from the body, there must be another 
mechanism drawing it in. Possibly these two mechanisms are at work 
all the time, the net effect either of uptake or loss, depending upon 
the relative efficiency of the two processes in a given individual under 
given conditions. The nature of the inward force, if it exists, and 
the conditions in which it is apparent, are quite unknown. 

Another source of water, an important and a universal one, is the 
water of metabolism. All animals necessarily produce water when 
they oxidize food containing hydrogen, and indeed the amount of 
water produced may be greater than the initial weight of the food. 
Thus 100 g. of fat, completely oxidized, yield 107 g. of water. This 
is the reason for the remarkable observation that certain beetle larvae 
may increase in weight during starvation (Mellanby, 1932). But 
the process is in no way an adaptation to di-y conditions. It is com- 
mon to all animals. The adaptation consists in conserving, by other 
means such as we have already discussed, water from metabolism to- 
gether with water from any other source. 

LIFE IN DESERTS 

THE DESERT ENVIRONMENT 

Let US now consider extreme terrestrial conditions, taking a hot 
desert as an example. What is known about the physiology of the 
animals that live there, and what remains to be discovered ? 

In a desert the surface temperature of the ground is very high 
during the daytime. It is often higher than that of the air above it, 
owing to the absorption of radiant energy from the sun. During the 
night, surface temperatures fall very steeply because the sparse cover 
of vegetation permits rapid radiation of heat to the sky, and the air 
is then warmer than the ground. At all times temperatures below the 
ground and in caves are much less extreme than surface temperatures. 
Humidity is usually very low, and this, combined with high tempera- 
ture, leads to rapid evaporation of water from moist surfaces. But 
because of the great fall in temperature at night, the relative humidity 
rises and evaporation is greatly reduced. If the surface temperature 
falls sufficiently low, dew may be formed. In these circumstances, 
during the daytime heat is gained by an animal largely by radiation 
from the sun and from the ground, but also significantly as a result 
of metabolism, especially in large animals. Little heat is gained by 
conduction from the ground. The air temperature may be above or 
below that of the animal's surface and heat flows by conduction ac- 
cordingly. Heat is lost by evaporation of water and by conduction 
to the air if the latter is below skin temperature. 

536608—60 28 



416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

MAMMALS 

There is by now a good deal of information about mammals which 
live in deserts, reviewed by K. and B. Schmidt-Nielsen (1954). In 
these animals the effect of size on water economy becomes at once 
apparent. Small species such as the African jerboa or the American 
kangaroo rat can avoid extremes of temperature and dryness by living 
in burrows. They do so and emerge to feed at night only. On the 
other hand, being mammals they must lose water both in respiration 
and in excretion. Yet these animals can exist indefinitely on perfectly 
dry food and no water. The answer lies in certain quantitative 
changes in their water physiology, not in the invention of any qualita- 
tively new process. They conserve the water of metabolism better 
than other mammals in several ways. First, they do not sweat, and 
their rate of transpiration is less than half that of the ordinary white 
rat. It seems likely that the commonly observed absence of sweat 
glands in small mammals receives a general explanation here: it re- 
sults from the necessity imposed by their relatively large surface to 
conserve water. 

Jerboas lose in evaporation from the respiratory surfaces only half 
of the water lost by man per unit oxygen uptake, perhaps by exhaling 
air at a lower temperature so that it requires less water to saturate 
it. They excrete only very small quantities of very concentrated 
urine, and they lose very little water with the feces, which are de- 
posited practically dry. 

These small animals do not use water to maintain a constant tem- 
perature in the desert for the good reason that in air at 40° C. they 
would have to lose 20 percent of their body weight per hour. But 
there is an emergency procedure, for if the body temperature ap- 
proaches the lethal level (about 42° C.) copious salivation occurs, 
which wets the fur of the chin and throat and thus reduces the body 
temperature. This can only be effective for a short time, however, 
because the loss of water is great and soon leads to desiccation of the 
tissues. 

With a large mammal such as a camel it is a very different matter. 
These animals cannot escape the heat of the day; they must either 
tolerate it, or use water to prevent a rise in body temperature. Here, 
therefore, we find a shift in the balance of physiological mechanisms, 
again only quantitatively, but in relation to the possibilities and 
limitations imposed by size. 

The camel does not store water. It exists for periods of a fortnight 
or more on dry food alone by tolerating a much greater depletion in 
body weight than most other mammals can. Thus a camel tolerates 
a loss of water equal to nearly a quarter of its body weight (100 kg. 
out of 450 kg.) as compared with something like 12 percent in man. 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 417 

At the end of such a period of desiccation the camel will drink suffi- 
cient water to restore its body weight (but no more) in a few minutes. 

How is it that a camel can tolerate a much larger proportional loss 
of water than a man ? In most mammals subjected to high tempera- 
tures in dry air, desiccation proceeds slowly while the temperature re- 
mains rather constant. But owing to loss of water from the blood, 
the latter becomes gradually more viscous. This puts extra strain on 
the heart, which, at a certain degree of viscosity, cannot circulate the 
blood sufficiently rapidly to carry away metabolic heat to the skin. 
At this point the temperature rises rapidly and death follows sud- 
denly. The phenomenon has been termed "explosive heat death" by 
Adolph. In camels, however, explosive heat death is rather skillfully 
avoided. There is a physiological mechanism, whose nature is so far 
unknown, which ensures that water is lost from the tissues only, 
while the blood volume, and hence its viscosity, remain constant. In 
a camel which lost 50 liters of water, reduction in blood volume was 
found to be less than 1 liter. 

Because of this ability and also because of its relatively small sur- 
face area, the camel can afford to sweat and thus to reduce the body 
temperature. Furthermore it avoids undue stress in this respect by 
allowing its temperature to vary over a greater range than other 
mammals do. In man, the daily fluctuation in temperature is about 
1° C, but the camel's temperature falls to 34° C. during the cool of the 
night and rises slowly throughout the day to as much as 41° C. To 
raise 450,000 g. through 7° C. needs a lot of heat. Only after this 
temperature is reached does sweating commence. 

The old story that the camel stores water in its hump has by now 
been decently buried, but it has been replaced by another almost 
equally fallacious: that the fat of which the hump is composed is 
essentially a water store itself. As we have seen, it is perfectly valid 
chemistry to say that 100 g. of fat when completely oxidized yield 
107 g. of water. But in order to oxidize the fat and make the water 
available, extra oxygen must be used, and this involves extra loss of 
water through the lungs to an amount which just about cancels any 
gain from the oxidation of fat. 

No, the camel's hump is a foodstore, just as any other fat deposit 
is, but there is an interesting reason for its taking that form. As 
Schmidt-Nielsen has pointed out, it is curious that in many mammals 
that live in hot climates, fat is not distributed as a subcutaneous 
layer, but is restricted to one large deposit. In camels this is the 
hump, in Indian and Zebu cattle, the same; in fat-tailed sheep it is the 
tail. Now when water evaporates, cooling occurs by the absorption 
of heat from the immediate environment. But if the animal's sur- 
face is thermally insulated from the rest of the body by a poor heat 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

conductor such as fat, nearly all the heat absorbed will be taken from 
the air, and the body temperature will hardly be affected. If the skin 
is thin, however, with a rich blood supply and no insulating fatty 
layer, heat may readily be withdrawn from the tissues. The con- 
centration of fat into one depot allows the rest of the surface of the 
animal to act as a radiator in this way. 

Fur is also an advantage to desert animals in preventing overheat- 
ing, for it acts as a heat barrier preventing solar radiation from 
reaching the skin, and also in slowing down the conduction of heat 
from the environment to the animal. On the same grounds, clothing 
for man is an advantage in strong sunshine by preventing the absorp- 
tion of radiant energy by the skin, and thus conserving water. But 
the fur must be sufficiently well ventilated to allow evaporation of 
sweat to occur at the base of the hairs so that heat may be drawn from 
the animal itself. If the fur is so thick that sweat travels through 
the layer in liquid form, evaporation occurs at the outer surface, heat 
is withdrawn from the air and the animal does not benefit. 

We may compare the camel's performance with that of a man and 
a dog. Both these animals begin to evaporate water as soon as the 
body temperature rises above normal; man from the skin, and the 
dog from the respiratory surfaces. In this respect they are at a dis- 
advantage as compared with the camel, which as we have seen allows 
its body temperature to rise. 

In man, sweating increases with increasing heat load, and may 
reach 1.5 liters an hour. It continues at this high rate in spite of 
progressive desiccation. Renal loss decreases until the maximum 
urine concentration is reached, but this still involves about 0.5 liter 
of water a day. Maximum urine concentration in man is not very 
high, but even a doubling of the permissible concentration would not 
be very effective in desert conditions, for up to 50 times as much water 
is lost by sweating, and a saving of 250 ml. would be insignificant. 

When supplied with water, however, man's capacity for physical 
work in deserts is better than that of the dog. This was made evi- 
dent in an experiment (Dill, Bock, and Edwards, 1933) where a man 
and a dog walked a course in a desert when the air temperature was 
about 40° C. (104° F.). The man made five rounds, covering 20 
miles, while the dog was completely exhausted after 16 miles. The 
man's skin temperature remained at about 34° C, but that of the 
dog rose, as a result of isolation, to about 45° C. After each round 
of 4 miles, both were offered water. The dog drank sufficient to 
restore its original body weight, but the man drank porportionally 
less and lost 3 kg. out of 75 kg. in 7 hours, which is equivalent to 4.2 
percent of his body weight. There is an interesting reason for this. 
The sweat of man, although less concentrated than blood serum, con- 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 419 

tains salt, and lie drank only enough water to restore the normal 
blood salt concentration. The dog transpires from the lungs and thus 
loses no salt, so that it was able, by drinking, to restore all the water 
lost without lowering its blood-salt concentration. Dogs have the 
advantage of men in this respect. 

Total evaporation from the dog was 2.6 percent of body weight 
per hour, that from the man w^as 1.74 percent; but if measured in 
terms of surface area, evaporation from the dog was lower : namely, 
0.65 l./hr./m." against 0.72 l.hr/m.^ from the man. Since the body 
temperature of both remained constant, the difference in evaporation 
per unit area should reflect a difference in heat load Heat is gained 
by metabolism, radiation, and conduction from the air. Metabolism 
is proportional to surface area in both animals and therefore adds an 
equal load to each ; the radiation load, however, is lower in the dog be- 
cause its skin temperature is higher. Thus when the surface tempera- 
ture of the environment is 65° C. and a dog's skin temperature is 45° C, 
the gradient is 20° C. In man, with a skin temperature of 35° C, the 
gradient is steeper. 

Again, heat flow by conduction to the air is outward in the dog 
(45° C. skin temperature and 40° C. air temperature), whereas in 
man heat flow is in the reverse direction. In this situation the dog, 
by not sweating from the skin and therefore having a higher skin 
temperature, had an advantage over man as far as water economy 
is concerned. Plowever, long-term advantages in water conservation 
do not necessarily correspond with conditions of immediate comfort. 
A skin temperature of 45° C. in man would not be tolerable for long. 

Strictly comparable figures for camels are not available, but the 
overriding fact is that a camel can tolerate a loss of water up to 
nearly 25 percent of its body weight while a man succumbs after 
losing 10 to 12 percent. 

Summarizing the above, we see that camels, men, dogs, and kanga- 
roo rats, all of them mammals, conform to expectations. The small 
ones avoid extreme conditions, and the large ones resist them by 
sweating. In addition, special adaptations, by modification of the 
general mannnalian physiological plan, are apparent in typical desert 
inhabitants. 

ARTHROPODS 

We may now examine the situation in desert arthropods. Here 
we have to do with a rather different physiological pattern. All 
these animals are so small that active regulation of body tempera- 
ture by evaporation of water is impossible, at any rate for more than 
very short periods, and water conservation is all important. They 
are all poikilotherms, and their temperatures fluctuate with that of 
the environment, so that toleration of a wide range of body tempera- 



420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

ture is the most efficient adaptation that they can possess. Neverthe- 
less the ability to prevent undue rise in temperature for a limited 
period would be a distinct advantage in certain critical situations, 
and there is evidence that this does occur. 

There are plenty of desert-living arthropods, including insects, 
spiders, and their allies, and even a few crustaceans. Rather less is 
known about the physiology of desert arthropods than desert mam- 
mals. What information exists, suggests that there are no striking 
physiological adaptations (Cloudsley-Thompson, unpublished), but 
this may be a mistaken impression because nobody has looked very 
carefully. Desert beetles have a rather less permeable integument 
than those from temperature climates, and the same is true of wood 
lice. On the whole, however, arthropods exist by avoiding extreme 
conditions. Because of their small size and mobility they are able 
to do so very well. 

This focuses attention on an aspect of the problem which we have 
not so far considered in detail : the microclimates available for escape. 
There is by now a considerable amount of information on this sub- 
ject, and I should like to consider two examples. Many years ago 
Williams investigated the variation in climate in a small area of the 
Egyptian desert. His conclusions, recently simimarized (Williams, 
1954), show how an animal, by moving through a very short dis- 
tance, can avoid extremes of temperature and dryness. When the 
ground surface temperature was 56° C, 10 cm. below the surface it 
was only 34° C, and by moving up and down through a distance 
of 30 cm. in the soil, an animal could live in a constant temperature 
throughout the daily cycle. 

A second example provides a rather interesting comment on Wil- 
liams's work. It concerns some observations (Edney, 1958) on 
a desert woodlouse, HeTnile'pistus reaumuri. It is strange enough 
to find land crustaceans at all in desert conditions, and this species 
seems, so far as we know, to differ but slightly in physiological mat- 
ters from its temperate relatives. It is larger than most woodlice, 
it runs with its body held well above the ground by longish legs, 
thereby avoiding contact with the hot surface, and its cuticle is less 
permeable to water than that of other woodlice. But it still breathes 
by what are essentially gills, and survives by digging small vertical 
holes about 30 cm. deep in which it spends the hot part of the day. 
Temperatures and humidities measured in the habitat of these ani- 
mals show the efficacy of the retreat holes (fig. 2). These measure- 
ments also show that Hemilepistus transpires rapidly enough to 
reduce its body temperature significantly for short periods — a fact 
of considerable practical importance, for the animals emerge from 
their holes if the sun is covered by a cloud. As soon as the cloud 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 421 



-u- 



3C*C.. <20% R.H. 



Alive 
34-0. 



Dead 
37»C. 




Figure 2. — A set of observations in tlie habitat of Hemilepistus reaumuri (Isopoda), in the 

Algerian desert. 

passes, the surface of the soil and the air immediately above it 
undergo a very rapid rise in temperature (as much as 15° C. in 10 
seconds). In such crises, ability to transpire rapidly while seeking 
shelter is undoubtedly an advantage to the animal. 

It seems, then, that the physiology of arthropods in deserts, so far 
as it is known, conforms to expectation. They are too small 
to maintain a constant temperature by transpiration for long, and 
consequently they exist by avoiding true desert conditions. 

Ability to transpire rapidly is certainly of some immediate ad- 
vantage both for temperature depression and for respiration. But 
in the long run, it is a gi-eat disadvantage to small animals, for it 
restricts them to cryptozoic niches — moist, cool crevices which form 
only a small part of the terrestrial habitat. The most landworthy 
arthropods, not only in deserts but on land in general, have imper- 
meable cuticles. 

It may be permissible to speculate as to why woodlice, after living 
on land for at least 60 million years, have shown so little progress. 
Since some of the animals are still littoral, and their closest relatives 
are marine, there is strong evidence that the gi'oup migrated to land 
across the littoral zone. This is perhaps a more difficult route than 
that through estuaries and swamps because the problems of land 
locomotion, air breathing, and great temperature fluctuations are 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

presented all at once, rather than one at a tune as they are along the 
other route. Now the littoral habitat is particularly subject to violent 
change, and a high transpiration rate would be of value both in 
permitting oxygen uptake in dry air through the integument, and in 
enablmg the animals to reach shelter if they were caught in the open 
by intense solar radiation. This may be an instance of a group of 
animals having been caught in an evolutionary cul-de-sac, because 
the immediate survival value of a highly permeable cuticle prevented 
the development of those characters essential to land life. At least 
it can be said with confidence that until the twin problems of an 
efficient internal respiratory system and a greater temperature tol- 
erance have been solved, the integument cannot be made imperme- 
able and the animals will be prevented from full exploitation of the 
terrestrial habitat. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Let us now try to see desert animals as part of the general picture 
of evolution. It is sometimes said, or implied, that the terrestrial 
habitat is advantageous in the sense of encouraging biological prog- 
ress. Are we then to think of desert animals, living as they do in 
extreme terrestrial conditions, as being the most progressive of 
animals ? 

Such statements are, of course, meaningful only if the term "prog- 
ress" has been defined. The measurement of progress involves a 
criterion of perfection. It is legitimate and to some extent helpful 
to set up such a criterion, provided we realize that the choice is 
arbitrary. Thus we may measure progress, with reasonable objectiv- 
ity, in terms of the range of habitats in which an animal can exist, 
or, and I think preferably, as Herrick (1946) and followmg him 
Simpson (1950) would have it, in terms of the range and variety of 
adjustments of the organism to its environment — that is, the degree 
of awareness of the environment and of ability to act accordingly. 

If we may accept this measure of progress for the sake of the 
present discussion, the advantages of land life are plain. There is a 
greater variety of habitats on land. Temperature and humidity 
change more rapidly over a greater range and this calls for more 
complex behavior patterns to avoid extremes, or for internal homeo- 
static mechanisms to mitigate their effects. Again, the richer oxygen 
supply and rarer medium permit more rapid and sustained locomo- 
tion, which in turn calls for more acute sense organs — particularly 
for perception at a distance — and more complex behavior patterns to 
cope with the rapid tempo of life. I suspect that the development of 
homeothermy, which is itself a prerequisite for the development of 
intelligence, could never have occurred in aquatic animals because 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 423 

of the high thermal capacity of water, the scarcity of oxygen, and 
the narrow range and slow rate of temperature changes. 

These then are the possibilities offered by life on land : to be eligi- 
ble for progress along these lines an animal must be terrestrial. But 
this is not to say that it must live in a desert, and we must look 
elsewhere for the reasons why some animals do so. 

There is room, biologically speaking, for amoebae and for men; 
there is room for tapeworms, and shrimps, and land crabs. There 
is doubtless room for hosts of animals which have never been evolved. 
But life continues to exist at all levels of organization and in all 
biological niches once occupied while there is a possibility of existing 
there. There is no compulsion on all organisms to evolve into higher 
organisms. Progress is not inevitable. In other words, organic life 
flows into possible biological niches in all directions ; it does not move 
steadily toward one goal. 

The desert is one of these niches. Probably it is one of the most 
difficult of land habitats, but it would be a mistake to draw the con- 
clusion that animals which live there are necessarily more advanced 
than others, in the sense of being able to live in a wider range of 
environments. Camels are clearly not more advanced animals than 
men on our agreed scale of progress. It is broadly true that life has 
evolved from "easier" to "harder" environments, and indeed a desert 
is one of the hardest. The animals which live there are well adaj)ted, 
and their adaptations are interesting to explore. But many of them, 
particularly the artliropods, cannot live in moist cool surroundings. 
If versatility is a measure of progress, then desert animals have sold 
their inheritance for the immediate advantages of specialization. 

As regards adaptation to terrestrial conditions as a whole, mammals 
and arthropods are the two most successful groups, but each group has 
its own secret of success. The mammalian plan is a good one: it 
allows a great variety of habitats to be occupied by a small number 
of relatively generalized species. Mammals can solve water and tem- 
perature problems in a generally applicable way, because they are 
large and can develop homeothermy. Arthropods, on the other hand, 
cannot solve all their water and temperature problems in a general 
way. They are too small, and they must solve some of their problems 
by specializing. Thus one species is specialized to tolerate a high 
range of body temperature, another a low range; one species can 
withstand dry air, another only moist air. Adaptability in arthro- 
pods is a property of the group as a whole rather than of individual 
species. 

And now before I conclude, I must try to answer the inevitable 
question : what is the use of all this work on the physiology of little- 



424 AICNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

known animals living in little-known places? I do not believe this 
question to be irrelevant, for I am not one of those who maintain 
the sanctity of ivory towers, either scientific or otherwise. On the 
other hand, let us not make the error of thinking that all knowledge 
which is not immediately applicable is valueless. The value of fmi- 
damental biological inquiiy lies in the greater insight it gives us 
into the way organisms work ; and better miderstanding of any process 
permits more effective control. If we wish to manipulate the balance 
of nature, we must first of all understand its principles. In partic- 
ular, the value of work on survival in hot dry climates lies in its ulti- 
mate application to the utilization of those vast areas of the earth's 
surface which are at present uninhabitable by mankind. For those 
who require applicability as an end to their endeavors, that must be 
the answer. 

REFERENCES 
Adolph, E. F., and Dill, D. B. 

1938. Observations on water metabolism in the desert. Amer. Journ. 
Physiol., vol. 123, pp. 369-378. 
Beament, J. W. L. 

1959. The waterproofing mechanism of arthropods. I. The effect of temper- 
ature on cuticle permeability in terrestrial insects and ticks. Journ. 
Exp. Biol., vol. 36, pp. 391^22. 
Delaunay, H. 

1931. L'excr^tion azot^e des invertSbr^s. Biol. Rev., vol. 31, pp. 265-301. 
Dill, D. B. ; Bock, A. V. ; and Edwards, H. T. 

1933. Mechanisms for dissipating heat in man and dog. Amer. Journ. 
Physiol., vol. 104, pp. 36-43. 
Edney, E. B. 

1957. The water relations of terrestrial arthropods. Cambridge Monographs 

of Experimental Biology. 

1958. The micro-climate in which woodlice live. Proc. 10th Internat. 

Congr. Entomol. Montreal, 1956, vol. 2, pp. 709-712. 
Edney, E. B., and Spencek, J. 

1955. Cutaneous respiration in woodlice. Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 32, pp. 

25&-269. 
Herrick, C. J. 

1946. Progressive evolution. Science, vol. 104, p. 469. 
Holdgate, M. W., and Seal, M. 

1956. The epicuticular wax layers of the pupa of Tenebrio molitor L. 

Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 33, pp. 82-106. 
Mead-Brioos, a. R. 

1956. The effect of temperature on the permeability to water of arthropod 
cuticles. Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 33, pp. 737-749. 
Mellanby, K. 

1932. The effect of atmospheric humidity on the metabolism of the fasting 

mealworm (Tenebrio molitor L., Coleoptera). Proc. Roy. Soc, B, 
vol. Ill, pp. 376-390. 



ANIMAL SURVIVAL IN HOT DESERTS — EDNEY 425 

Needham, J. 

1929. Protein metabolism and organic evolution. Science Progress, vol. 

23, pp. 633-&46. 
1935. Problems of nitrogen catabolism in invertebrates. II. Correlation 
between uricotelic metabolism and habitat in the phyllum Mollusca. 
Biochem. Journ., vol. 29, pp. 238-251. 
Schmidt-Nielsen, K. and B. 

1954. Heat regulation in small and large desert mammals. In Biology of 
Deserts, ed. Cloudsley-Thompson, Institute of Biology, London. 
Simpson, G. G. 

19.50. The meaning of evolution. Oxford. 

WiGGLESWORTH, V. B. 

1945. Transpiration through the cuticle of insects. Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 

21, pp. 97-114. 
Williams, C. B. 

1954. Some bioclimatie observations in the Egyptian desert. In Biology of 

Deserts, ed. Cloudsley-Thompson, Institute of Biology, London. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25, D.C. 



Amphibians, Pioneers of Terrestrial 
Breeding Habits ^ 



By Coleman J. Coin 

Professor of Biological Sciences, University of Florida, and 
Research Associate, Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh 



Any teacher of comparative vertebrate anatomy who is worth his 
salt does, I am sure, emphasize the anatomical adaptations necessary 
for the invasion of land by the vertebrates. This aspect of evolution 
has been thoroughly explored, and within the limits of the paleon- 
tological record and the philosophical insight of man has been rather 
adequately explained. Another facet of the development of life on 
land is that of the environmental conditions under which these 
adaptations arose. These, too, have been investigated, and there has 
been in recent years a flurry of papers (Orton, 1954; Ewer, 1955; 
Gunter, 1956; Inger, 1957; Romer, 1958) discussing the ecological 
aspects of adaptation to life on land, in one of which the present 
writer had a hand (Goin and Goin, 1956). There remains another 
adaptational aspect, however, which I think has been neglected, and 
that is the development of those reproductive devices necessary to life 
on land. True, most elementary texts state that the final break with 
the water was made possible through the development of the shelled 
reptilian egg in which the embryo is enclosed in a fluid-filled sac by a 
new membrane, the amnion. They usually do not pursue the subject 
further unless it be simply to imply that the shelled egg made neces- 
sary internal fertilization. In fact, it is difficult even to find a litera- 
ture reference to the idea that it must have been the other way 
around — that is, that internal fertilization made possible the develop- 
ment of the shelled egg. 

It is this subject of the adaptive aspects of life history among the 
first terrestrial vertebrates that I want to pursue here. Surely we 
must not assume that only a single evolutionary attempt was made to 



1 Read at the 38th annual banquet of the American Society of Ichthyologists and Her- 
petologists. In preparing this paper, the author has greatly profited from discussions with 
others. He would like to mention especially Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, Dr. Ernest Lachner, 
Dr. Robert Inger, Dr. M. Graham Netting, Dr. Kenneth W. Cooper, and most particularly 
his wife, Olive Bown Goin. 

427 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

modify a life history from that of an aquatic organism to that of a 
terrestrial organism. In fact, variability in reproductive pattern 
seems to be characteristic of the lower vertebrates. Diversity of life 
histoi*y is certainly well exemplified in the fishes, for example. Thus, 
in the grunions (Atherinidae) the eggs are deposited in sand on the 
beaches. The eggs of the Brazilian Copeina arnoldi are laid in jelly- 
like masses just above the waterline and are splashed by the male 
every 15 or 20 minutes until they hatch after about 3 days. Male 
climbing perch (Anabantidae) make floating bubble nests in which 
the females deposit the eggs. Males of sea catfishes (Ariidae) and 
mojarras (Cichlidae) carry the eggs in their mouths until they hatch, 
and in the well-known pipefishes (Syngnathidae) the female deposits 
her eggs in a brood pouch on the abdomen of the male. Here they 
are fertilized, the eggs hatch, and the young undergo their develop- 
ment. Internal fertilization is practiced by the sharks and top min- 
nows (Poeciliidae), and in these groups the young are usually "born 
alive." 

In each of these, however, the modification has resulted solely in 
the protection of the eggs from the exigencies of development in open 
water, since the adult itself never becomes terrestrial. This is not 
true of the amphibians. Comparative anatomy teaches us that adults 
of many of the modern forms have developed terrestrial characteristics 
while their reproductive habits still link them to the water. 

It is impossible for us to examine directly the breeding habits of 
those early amphibians that moved their way out on land and gave 
rise to the truly terrestrial vertebrates. However, even today, 275 
million years later, the amphibians are still trying to alter the piscine 
life-history pattern of depositing large numbers of small-yolked eggs 
in open ponds, on the chance that some of the offspring will live 
through to maturity. A study of these attempts may give us some 
clues as to how the change to terrestrialism was made. An examina- 
tion of life histories shows plainly that many amphibians today do 
not at all follow what is known as the "typical" life history. Because 
the study of the amphibians developed largely in the North Temperate 
Zone, and because the frogs of this zone usually spawn in open water, 
with the small-yolked eggs hatching out into tadpoles which swim 
around until they are ready to transform into froglets, we often get 
the feeling that this is the amphibian life history. We are apt to 
overlook the fact that most amphibians live in parts of the world 
where the study of amphibians and reptiles has been least pursued 
and that the "typical condition" as given in an elementary zoology 
text may really, in a sense, be atypical. It may not even have been 
the characteristic pattern of the Carboniferous amphibians. Noble 
(1931) pointed out that the most primitive amphibians living today. 



AMPHIBIANS — GOm 429 

the tropical, wormlike caecilians, lay large-yolked eggs on land, and 
suggested that this may also have been true of the earliest amphibians. 
More recently, Eomer (1957), in discussing the adaptive advantages 
of the terrestrial egg, hypothesized that the terrestrial egg preceded 
the terrestrial adult. 

Several other aspects of amphibian life history have recently been 
explored by various workers. Lutz (1947) summarized the trend 
toward direct development in frogs, and a year later (Lutz, 1948) 
again discussed developmental variation, this time with particular 
emphasis on the amount of yolk in the egg. Orton (1949, 1951) has 
particularly interested herself in the modifications in the larval 
stages as correlated with direct development in frogs. More recently 
Jameson (1955) produced an excellent summary of modifications in 
mating behavior of the anurans. 

Let me now summarize briefly the life-history modifications shown 
by the various living families of amphibians. 

Caecilidae. — Among the caecilians, internal fertilization is the rule. 
In the male, the cloaca (the common chamber into which the digestive 
and reproductive tracts empty) can be everted and serves as a copu- 
latory structure when the cloacas of the two sexes are brought to- 
gether. We find both aquatic and terrestrial caecilians and their life 
histories reflect these differences. In Ichthyophis, a native of Ceylon, 
breeding takes place in spring. A burrow is prepared by the female 
in moist ground close to running water. She coils her body about the 
20 or more relatively large-yolked eggs and guards them zealously 
during development, protecting them from predatory snakes and 
lizards. The eggs swell gradually until they are about double their 
original size. Wlien ready to hatch, the embryo weighs approxi- 
mately four times as much as did the original egg. External gills are 
present at first, but these are lost soon after hatching. The larvae, 
which are aquatic, metamorphose into burrowing, limbless adults that 
w^ould drown if kept under water. The genus Rhinatrema of northern 
South America likewise has eggs that hatch out into aquatic larvae 
with external gills. 

On the other hand, GyTunophis and Geotrypetes retain the eggs in 
the oviducts and give birth to young which are replicas of the adults. 
The wall of the oviduct is provided with compound oil glands and the 
larvae subsist by literally eating the tissue of the wall with its in- 
cluded oil droplets. 

Hynohiidae. — The hynobiids, primitive salamanders of the Old 
World, practice external fertilization, and the females deposit the 
eggs in egg cases. Batvachuperus karlschmidti, a common salamander 
of the small mountain streams of western China, attaches its egg 
cases in the stream bed proper, under or on the sides of large stones 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

in flowing water. These cases are mostly found in small brooks, 
especially near their source, where spring water seeps out of the 
ground or from under stones. The end of the egg case that is attached 
to the stone is flat and sticky and the body of the case is a cylindrical 
tube, larger in the middle and smaller toward the free end where it is 
smooth and transparent. The free end is covered with a smooth, cup- 
like cap which is even more delicate than the rest of the case. This 
cap is forced off by the movement of the fully developed embryos, 
and the young free themselves through the hole. The individual egg 
cases contam 7 to 12 eggs or developing embryos, and since as many as 
45 eggs in the same stage of development have been taken from a 
single mature female, it follows that each female deposits 5 or 6 
separate egg cases. The larvae are fairly typical salamander stream 
larvae. 

Cryptohranchidae. — The salamanders of this family, like those in 
the family Hynobiidae, practice external fertilization. In Crypto- 
liranchus, the hellbender of the eastern United States, mating takes 
place in the late summer. The male excavates a nest on the stream 
bottom beneath some large sheltering object, usually a flat rock, and 
will accept females that have not deposited their eggs. The eggs 
are laid in long rosarylike strings, one from each oviduct. These 
strings settle in a tangled mass on the bottom of the nest. As many 
as 450 eggs may be deposited by a single female, and several females 
may lay in a single nest. Fertilization is accomplished by the male 
discharging into the water a whitish, cloudy mass, consisting of semi- 
nal fluid and secretions of the cloacal glands, as the eggs are deposited 
by the female. After the eggs are deposited and fertilized, the male 
often lies among them with his head guarding the opening of the nest. 
It takes about 10 to 12 weeks for the eggs to hatch ; the larvae trans- 
form at approximately 18 months. 

Amhystomatidae. — In the family of the mole salamanders, two 
modifications not present in the previously mentioned families of 
salamanders show up: one is internal fertilization and the other is 
deposition of eggs on land. All the Amhystomatidae practice internal 
fertilization by means of spermatophores. These spermatophores are 
little packets of sperm, enclosed in a mushroom-shaped, gelatinous 
mass, which are deposited by the male and picked up by the cloacal 
lips of the female. Most of the ambystomatids, such as Ambystoma 
tigrinum, A. maculatum, and A. jeffersonianium, lay their eggs in 
water. In the last-named species, for example, the adults migrate to 
the breeding ponds in the early spring. The females usually outnum- 
ber the males and often must bid for attention during the mating 
season. After a characteristic courtship, the female picks up the 
spermatophore and deposits small eggs in cylindrical masses which 



AMPHIBIANS — GOIN 431 

contain on the average about 16 eggs. These eggs are, of course, 
fertilized as they pass down the oviduct. Since the female may de- 
posit over 200 eggs, it often takes a number of masses to complete a 
deposition. Typically, the incubation period ranges from 30 to 45 
days, and transformation, or metamorphosis, follows 2 to 4 months 
after hatching. 

A. opacum departs from this pattern to lay its eggs in the fall on 
land under old logs or other sheltering objects. The young, which 
hatch out on the advent of winter rains and make their w^ay into the 
water, exhibit all the larval characteristics typical of other species of 
the genus. 

Salamandridae. — The typical salamanders have developed a diver- 
sity of life-history patterns. Fertilization is internal by means of 
spermatophores. In the common American newt, Diemictylus v. viri- 
descens, mating takes place in the spring. The eggs, numbering 
200 to 375, are laid singly and usually are fastened to some aquatic 
object, such as a leaf or the stem of a small plant in quiet waters. 
Earely they may be attached to the surface of a stone. The eggs 
hatch in about 20 to 35 days and the larval period usually lasts until 
fall. 

On the other hand, some species of the Old World genus Sala- 
mandra exhibit modified life histories. Salamandra atra, for ex- 
ample, retains the eggs in the oviduct for the developmental period, 
and the young are bom as fidly metamorphosed individuals. In 
S. salamandra the developing individuals are retained in the oviduct 
for a time, but they may be born as late larvae, rather than as com- 
pletely metamorphosed individuals. If the larvae of these two 
species are dissected from the oviduct, they are found to have the long 
filamentous gills and rudimentary balancers that are characteristic of 
pond larvae. This shows that in Salamandra the retention of the 
developing young in the oviducts is a modification of the aquatic form 
of life history. 

AmpJiiumidae. — While details of the congo eel's life history remain 
to be discovered, the broad picture is evident. Fertilization is ap- 
parently internal and the eggs are laid in long, rosarylike strings in 
shallow depressions on land beneath old logs or boards. These strings 
contain, in some cases, at least 150 eggs. Tlie normally aquatic fe- 
male remains with the eggs and guards them during their develop- 
mental period. 

Plethodontidae. — Members of this specialized family of salaman- 
ders also show some specialized life histories. Hence, not one but 
several accounts are needed to typify the breeding habits of this 
family. In all the species, fertilization is internal by means of 
spermatophores, but from this point on, there are modifications tend- 

536608—60 29 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

ing toward terrestrial adaptation. In the red salamanders, Pseudo- 
triton^ the eggs are deposited in small groups hangmg from tiny root- 
lets and other submerged structures in cool, muddy springs. The 
female stays with the eggs, but apparently when they have hatched 
the larvae range for themselves. The dusky salamander, Desmog- 
nathus fusGus, on the other hand, lays its eggs not in the water but 
on land. They are deposited in small, grapelike clusters in shallow 
excavations in the soft earth, among bits of sphagnum, or under- 
neath stones or logs. These excavations generally are within a few 
feet of the water. Upon hatching the young salamanders do not go 
at once to the water, but remain for a week or two on land and show 
definite terrestrial adaptations. The posterior limbs are longer in 
proportion to the trunk region than at any time during later develop- 
ment. Likewise the tail lacks a fin. In short, this young salamander 
is not merely a little larva which has not yet had a chance to reach 
the water but is basically a terrestrial salamander, able to move about 
in the damp crannies and crevices leading from the nest to the nearest 
pool or stream. After about 2 weeks these young terrestrial larvae 
take up an aquatic existence until such time as metamorphosis occurs, 
which it usually does when they are about 7 to 9 months of age. 
Plethodon cinereus^ the red-backed salamander of the eastern United 
States, exemplifies the typical terrestrial plethodontid life history. 
The female lays 3 to 12 large unpigmented eggs in crannies and holes 
in rotten logs. Each egg adheres firmly to those previously laid, so 
that a little mass of eggs seemingly enclosed in a single envelope is 
formed. The ^gg cluster is usually attached to the roof of the cavity. 
The embryos develop rapidly and soon exhibit well -developed external 
gills. These, however, are lost on hatching. The young emerge in 
the same form as adults and never take up an aquatic larval exist- 
ence. Finally, Hydromantes and Oedipus retain the eggs in the ovi- 
ducts and give birth to fully transformed young. 

Proteidae. — This family, which includes the well-known mud 
puppy, Necturus^ is somewhat isolated structurally from the other 
salamanders and its members never completely metamorphose. Fer- 
tilization is internal. The female of Necturus inaculosus lays eggs 
singly in still water and attaches them to the undersurf ace of rocks, 
boards, or other objects, usually in water 3 to 5 feet deep and from 
50 to 100 feet from shore in shallow lakes, although they have been 
recorded from streams. There are from 18 to 180 eggs in each clutch. 
They hatch after 4 or 5 weeks. In this genus there is, of course, no 
metamorphosis, since these salamanders are aquatic and retain their 
gills throughout life. The European olm Proteus^ under some con- 
ditions, does not lay its eggs but rather retains them in the oviduct 
where the young undergo development, finally to be born as sala- 
manders, which are but miniature replicas of the adult. In contrast 



AMPHIBIANS — GOESr 433 

to the caecilians, there are no special modifications known of either 
the larvae or the oviduct to permit this change in life history. 

Sirenidae. — The aquatic sirens have been reported time and time 
again to exhibit external fertilization, but these reports have been 
based on the fact that no one has yet demonstrated either the produc- 
tion of spermatophores by the male or the presence of a receptacle for 
storing the sperm in the cloaca of the female. Nonetheless, I am not 
yet convinced that the Sirenidae practice external fertilization. In 
Pseudobranclius^ the dwarf siren, the eggs are deposited singly on the 
roots of water hyacmths and are so widely scattered that often an en- 
tire afternoon's collecting will produce less than a dozen eggs. They 
may be spaced as much as 5 or 10 feet apart. Dissection of mature fe- 
males readily demonstrates that they may have well over 100 eggs 
ready for deposition at one time. It seems inconceivable that such a 
large number of widely scattered eggs could be fertilized externally. 
The eggs hatch several weeks after deposition, but of course the young 
larvae never metamorphose because these, like Necturus^ are aquatic 
forms that retain the gills. Since in both the Hynobiidae and the 
Cryptobranchidae, the two families of salamanders that are known to 
have external fertilization, the eggs are laid m clusters, either in little 
capsules or packages, or in rosarylike strings, it would seem that the 
habit of spacing the eggs at wide intervals would be unique among 
salamanders with external fertilization if the Sirenidae are, in fact, 
really salamanders — but that is another story. 

Leiopelmidae. — These primitive frogs have internal fertilization 
with the "tail" (cloacal appendage) of the male acting as a copulatory 
structure. In the tailed frog, Ascaphits, the voiceless male swims 
about on the bottom of a flowing stream until he finds a female. He 
grabs her and secures a firm grip, clasping her just in front of her 
hind legs and humping his body so as to bring his extended cloacal 
appendage into position to thrust into her cloaca. The sperm is ap- 
parently transported to the female cloaca by means of this appendage. 
The eggs are deposited in coils of rosarylike strings which adhere to 
rocks at the bottom of the stream. In the cold water in which these 
eggs are deposited, embryonic development is slow, and transforma- 
tion does not occur mitil the following summer. The only close rela- 
tive of Ascaphus is Leiopelma of New Zealand. This frog has been 
reported to lay eggs on land which go through direct development, 
but the details of mating and method of egg deposition are unknown. 

Pelohatidae. — As in other families, there is a good deal of variation 
of life histories in the burrowing toads. The reproductive pattern of 
the spadefoot toad, Scaphiopus h. holbrooM^ is somewhat typical of 
the New World forms in that there is a speeding up of the develop- 
mental processes in correlation with the habit of breeding in tem- 
porary waters. In torrential rains and hurricanes any time of the 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

year from early spring to late fall, males emerge from their burrows 
and move to temporary rain-filled pools where they call vigorously. 
Calling takes place both by day and by night. When the females 
reach the ponds, they are clasped by the males and egg deposition 
occurs. The toads cling to a stiff spear of grass or other piece of 
vegetation beneath the surface of the water and slowly crawl up the 
stem, in a few minutes depositing a string of about 200 eggs. The 
tiny eggs hatch in a fairly short period of time, depending in part on 
water temperature and other external factors which have yet to be 
determined. Under certain conditions they may hatch within a day 
and a half. The little tadpoles remain in the pool for a varied period 
of time, depending again on conditions within the drying-up pool. 
That local environmental conditions have their effect can be easily 
demonstrated. My wife and I have taken tadpoles from a drying 
pool in our backyard and put them on the back porch in a jar of water 
from the pool, leaving other tadpoles in the puddle. Those tads left 
in the puddle emerged just prior to the drying up of the pond, while 
those in the jar of water on the back porch continued to exist for 
several weeks afterward as untransformed tadpoles. 

On the other hand, in the Old World pelobatid Sooglossus seychel- 
lensis the eggs are laid on land and the tadpoles are carried about 
adhering to the male's back where they undergo their development. 
The eggs are fairly large and the larvae hatch with hind-leg rudiments 
present, but have neither external nor internal gills at any stage of 
development, 

Pipidae. — Three types of life history are exemplified by the very 
aquatic frogs of the family Pipidae. In the Old World forms, such 
as the African clawed frog, Xenopus^ the eggs are deposited in the 
water and are attached to weeds. On the other hand, in the five 
American species, including the Surinam toad, PijJa pipa^ eggs are 
placed in pouches on the backs of the females. These pouches are 
temporary pits formed in the soft skin of the dorsum. Development 
is direct in two species and probably also in a third, but in the other 
two the eggs hatch into tadpoles that resemble those of the Old World 
species. 

DisGOglossidae. — The mating behavior of the obstetrical toad, 
Alytes obstetricans, has been worked out in rather careful detail. The 
males call from small holes in the ground. Mating occurs on the 
ground nearby and is apt to last most of the night. The male clasps 
the female tightly around the head above the forelimbs and gently 
massages her cloacal region with his toes. Just before the eggs are 
laid, the male moves his hind legs forward so that his heels are to- 
gether anterior to and above the cloaca of the female. As the eggs are 
emitted the male catches the mass in his feet and, by stretching his 
legs backward, delivers from 20 to 60 eggs which the female expels 



AMPHIBIANS — GOIN 435 

with a sudden noise. The male then moves his legs around, entwining 
the eggs about his legs. He carries them for several weeks, until the 
tadpoles are about ready to hatch, at which time he makes a brief 
visit to a pool where no other tadpoles are present. Here he deposits 
the eggs; the little tadpoles hatch out and finish their development 
as tads in the pool. 

BomMna maxima^ the yellow-bellied toad, breeds in the water. The 
male clasps the female just above the front of the hind limbs and the 
eggs are laid in small masses which, instead of being wrapped around 
the legs of the male, sink to the bottom or come to rest suspended on 
submerged vegetation. Here they lie until the eggs hatch. 

Rhino'phrynidae. — The Mexican burrowing toad, Rhinophrynus^ 
exhibits an aquatic courtship, the males grasping the females in front 
of the hind legs. The eggs are then deposited in the water where they 
hatch out into aquatic larvae which later undergo metamorphosis. 

Leptodactylidae. — The two abundant genera of New World lepto- 
dactylids, Leptodactylus^ the nest-building frogs, and Eleutherodac- 
tylus^ the robber frogs, have rather uniform life histories among 
themselves. The species of Leptodactylus build frothy nests in or 
near bodies of water. The eggs are deposited and hatch within these 
nests. The larvae have very slim bodies and make their way through 
the nest to the adjacent water. While there is some variation in larval 
form among the different species, in general throughout the genus 
there is agreement of nest form and larval habits. A few leptodac- 
tylids have become more terrestrial. L. nanus scoops out a small 
basin in the earth at a site some distance from the water. The froth 
and eggs are deposited in this basin which is then roofed over with 
mud. A tiny aperture is left at the top through which the young 
escape after metamorphosis. 

Eleutherodactyhis lays its eggs on land. Here, about sunrise in 
the morning, generally under stones or logs or similar cover, the 
female deposits her eggs while clasped by the male who fertilizes them 
as they are deposited. These eggs go through direct development and 
at hatching the little f roglet is a miniature replica of the adult. 

Life histories of Paludicola and Eupeinflux are similar in pattern 
to that characteristic of Leptodactylus. Zachaenus., like L. nanus., lays 
its eggs in an earth basin, but the basin is not roofed over. The 
young, however, complete metamorphosis in the basin as do the young 
of L. n/inus. 

In the Australian Heleioporus eyrei, the eggs are laid in a frothy 
mass of jelly underground in the spring of the year. Development 
proceeds within the egg until the external gills have been lost and 
the gill covering developed. Hatching seems to depend on the nest 
beinsr flooded. 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 59 

The Australian Lvmnodynastes tasmaniensis lays small eggs which 
are enclosed in a gelatinous frothy mass floating on any available 
water supply. These eggs hatch in about 48 hours and the newly 
emerged larvae make their way from the frothy mass into the water 
where they immediately attach themselves to water plants, debris, or 
other submerged objects. 

Centrolenidae. — Not too much is known concerning the breeding 
habits of this distinctive little family of tree frogs. The eggs are 
deposited in disklike masses on the undersides of green leaves. These 
masses are invariably above running water, into which the tadpoles 
fall on hatching. It has been reported for Cochranella fleischmanni, 
of Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal Zone, that the easiest way 
to locate the frogs is to search out the egg masses. At night a male 
will nearly always be in attendance. Multiple matings by a single 
male have been reported for this species. 

Bufonidae. — The true toads, like so many other anuran families, 
show a diversity of life histories. In the genus Bufo the males go 
to the ponds in spring, in the Northern Hemisphere at least, and 
give their calls. When the female approaches the male, the latter 
embraces her behind the front legs and the pair float at the surface, 
the male leaving his hind legs hanging free. As the female deposits 
the eggs, the male brings his knees to rest in her groin with heels 
almost touching. The female pushes along the bottom and deposits 
strings of small-yolked eggs, which may number in the thousands. 
They hatch in 2 to 4 days into little, short, polliwog-type tadpoles. 
These tadpoles transform into tmy toads a month or two later. 

In the African genus Nectophrynoides, which contains but three 
species, the eggs are not laid but are retained in the body of the 
female where they hatch; the young go through their larval develop- 
ment in the oviducts of the mother. The number of young is greatly 
reduced in comparison to the number produced by the toads that lay 
their eggs in water, but even so, more than 100 may be taken from 
a single female of Nectophrynoides vivipara. Despite the fact that 
these larvae remain in the oviduct rather than having a free-living 
tadpole stage, few of the important characters of tadpoles have actu- 
ally been lost. Transformation takes places within the oviduct and 
fully developed young are born. No copulatoiy organs have been 
described for this genus of frogs, and how the spermatazoa are 
transmitted from the male to the female is not known. 

Rhinodermatidae. — The small Andean Darwin's frog, Rhinoderma 
darwini, has one of the most unusual of all life histories known 
among the frogs. Several males will watch a clutch of 20 to 30 
eggs, deposited on land by a single female, for 10 to 20 days, until 
they are nearly ready to hatch and the embryos can be seen moving 
inside them. Over a period of several days, each male then picks up 



AMPHIBIANS — GOIN 437 

a number of eggs, one at a time, with his tongue and slides them 
down into his vocal pouch. Here the young pass the larval stage. 
They do not emerge until metamorphosis is completed. Although it 
lacks a free-living larval period, the developing frog is for a time 
completely tadpolelike. 

Tlie tiny Sininthillus Iwibatus of Cuba lays one large-yolked egg 
on land which hatches into a fully formed frog. 

Dendrohatidae. — The little poison frogs are apparently rather uni- 
form in the fact that the male carries the tadpoles on his back until 
he deposits them in a body of quiet, casual water. In Dendrohates au- 
ratus^ the male has no definite calling site but makes a low buzzing 
sound as he moves about over the ground on a morning after a rain. 
Usually a male will be followed by several females, some of which 
will actually jump on him. He is apparently aware of his admirers 
because if pursuit lags, he slows down and becomes more vociferous. 
Finally he dives beneath the wet leaf mold and is followed by a fe- 
male. The details of mating are not known and in fact it is not even 
sure that it does take place under these situations. It is known, how- 
ever, that the female lays on land from one to six rather large-yolked 
eggs which are surrounded by an irregular, sticky, gelatinous material 
with no definite external film. These eggs hatch in about 2 weeks. The 
male either guards or visits the clutch, and the newly hatched tad- 
poles wriggle onto his back. Some time later he moves to the water 
and the tadpoles slide off. Tadpole-carrying males have been noted 
in trees quite some distance from water, although it may be that they 
were carrying tadpoles up to tree holes which contained water. Tad- 
poles collected in water have been known to live for at least 42 days 
before transformation. Similar habits are shown by the related 
genera, Phyllohates and Prostherapis^ although apparently the num- 
ber of tadpoles carried by an individual male is greater. In Phyl- 
lohates^ males have been found carrying as many as 15 tadpoles, and 
tadpole-carrying males of this genus have been seen as far as a quarter 
of a mile from water. A specimen of Prostherapis fuliginosus has 
been taken with 25 tadpoles on the back. 

Atelopodidae. — As far as I know, the brightly colored little toads 
of this family exhibit aquatic breeding habits with indirect develop- 
ment—that is, the eggs are laid in water and pass through a tadpole 
stage before transformation. 

Hylidae. — The tree frogs have very diverse life histories. One 
group comprises a few genera of South American frogs placed to- 
gether in the subfamily Hemiphractinae. These include Grypto- 
hatrachus^ Hemiphr actus ^ Gastrotheca^ and Amphignatliodon. While 
typically hylid in appearance, these frogs have the habit of carrying 
eggs in a mass on the back of the female. In some, this mass is im- 
bedded in or covered by a fold of skin which forms a veritable sac as 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

in the marsupial frog Gastrotheca Tnarsupiata. In others, such as 
Cryptohatrachus evansi, the female carries the eggs exposed on the 
back where they go through their development. In other hylids as- 
signed to the subfamily Hylinae, the life history is less modified, but 
even here there are specializations. In the Central and South Ameri- 
can genus Phyllomedicsa, for example, the male clasps the female while 
she moves about through the trees and selects a leaf over water on 
which to deposit her eggs. While spawning, the pair move slowly 
forward from the tip of the leaf toward the stalk, folding the leaf 
into a nest and filling it with eggs and foam. The two ends of the 
leaf are left open. In this foamy mass the eggs develop into tadpoles 
which then fall through the hole in the end of the leaf into the water 
below. In Hyla decipiens likewise the eggs are laid in a gelatinous 
mass on a leaf overhanging sluggish water. Upon hatching, the 
larvae break free and fall into the water. 

Hyla rosenbergi and Hyla faber build basins of mud on or near the 
edge of pools. In these basins they deposit their eggs. The tadpoles 
have enormous gills with which they adhere to the surface film of 
these basins. With the rise of water following the rains, the tadpoles 
make their way into the body of the pool or stream. 

In Hyla goeldi the eggs are carried on the back of the female until 
ready to hatch, at which time the mother goes and sits in the water 
while hatching progresses. 

In Jamaica, all the species of Hyla have specialized breeding habits. 
They deposit their eggs in the little water held at the base of the leaves 
of "wild pines" or bromeliads. Here the little tadpoles hatch out and 
start through their development. Food is quite scarce in this environ- 
ment and the tadpoles have become specialized for feeding upon the 
eggs laid either by the mother or some other female. In some forms, 
at least, they may eat the eggs of other species, but certainly in Hyla 
hrunnea it can be demonstrated that they eat the eggs of their own 
species, for in certain parts of the Blue Mountains where I have ob- 
served this behavior, hrunnea is the only Hyla present. Not only do 
the tadpoles eat the eggs of their own species, but, in all probability, 
they eat the tadpoles of the same clutch. As one watches a develop- 
ing nest, in the early stages there are many tadpoles present, but as 
time goes on the tadpoles become fewer and fewer, so that by the time 
transformation is about to take place perhaps less than half a dozen 
living tadpoles are left to transform. The reduction in teeth and the 
extremely long tails of these tadpoles are presumably modifications 
for existence in this environment. Similar egg-eating tadpoles have 
been described for a continental genus of hylid, Anotheca, of Mexico 
and Central America. 

Many of the hylas do, however, have the habit of breeding in open 
water with the unprotected eggs transforaiing through the tadpole 



AMPHIBIANS — GOENT 439 

stage into little frogs. In the gray treef rog, Hyla versicolor^ for ex- 
ample, the adults go to the ponds from April to early summer to 
breed. The eggs are laid, scattered in small masses or packets of not 
more than 20 to 40 eggs each, on the surface of quiet pools. These 
packets are loosely attached to the vegetation. The Q,g^ itself is but 
slightly larger than a millimeter in diameter while the outer envelopes 
may be more than 4 mm. in diameter. The eggs hatch in 4 to 5 days 
and the tadpoles emerge to swim around and feed in the pond for 
about a month and a half to 2 months imtil they transform, usually in 
the middle or late summer, into small frogs that may be from 15 to 20 
mm. in snout-to-vent length. 

Ranidae. — The typical life-history pattern of the so-called "true 
frogs" of the genus Rana is too well known to deserve more than pass- 
ing mention. In Rana pipiens, the leopard frog, the eggs are laid in 
the spring months. They are deposited in large masses attached to 
submerged plants, twigs, or sticks, or they may even rest on the bot- 
tom, unattached, in open ponds and marshes. After hatching, the 
tadpole exists as a sunfish-type tadpole with a very high tail fin for 
2 or 3 months. The tadpole itself is quite large and often exceeds 3 
inches in length. 

A couple of Oriental species of Rana lay their eggs out of water 
on leaves or stones or even in the mud near the bank, but these egg 
masses are essentially unmodified and the larvae which escape from 
them soon make their way into the water. This habit of laying its 
eggs out of water is also found in the South African genus Phryno- 
hatrachus. All the species of Staurois, a genus characteristic of 
mountain-torrent regions of southeastern Asia, lay their eggs in the 
pools below the cascades. These eggs hatch out into aquatic tadpoles 
that are especially adapted for life in mountain torrents by having 
large suctorial disks back of the mouth. 

In the genus Cornufer of the East Indies we find the extreme 
modification in ranid development in that, instead of hatching out 
into tadpoles which later metamorphose, development is carried on 
in the eggs which are laid on land and which hatch out directly into 
fully formed tiny f roglets. 

Rhacophoridae. — ^The Old World tree frogs typically lay their eggs 
in masses of foam on the leaves of plants or other stiTictures above 
the water. The habits of Rhacophorus leucomystax may be taken as 
an example. The breeding season is apparently very long, egg foam 
having been collected from late April through August. The breeding 
places include the walls of unused manure pools and sometimes the 
crops in flooded fields. If no suitable pool or other water is available, 
the egg foam may be laid on the ground during rainy evenings. 
During the process of egg laying, the female does most of the work 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

of producing the foam mass. Before the eggs appear she ejects a 
small amount of fluid, and this she beats into a froth by moving her 
feet medially and laterally and turning them as she crosses them on 
the midline. When the foam for holding the eggs has been prepared, 
the eggs and the fluid come out together. During the egg-laying 
process, the male is passive, grasping the female under the armpits 
and simply holding his body closely applied to her back, his eyes half 
closed. His pelvic region is bent down with the cloacal opening near 
that of the female. Apparently the eggs are fertilized as they leave 
the cloaca of the female. When the egg-laying process has been 
completed, the female stands up on her forelimbs and the male tries 
to get away from the foam in which the distal ends of his hind legs 
are buried. The female usually gets away from the foam later by 
moving her legs and body sideways with the help of large sticky 
finger disks. The foam is white at first but in a few moments changes 
to light brown. The eggs, which are without pigmentation, are scat- 
tered singly or in small groups in the big foam mass but are mostly 
concentrated near the basal part where the foam is attached to the 
substrate. The incubation period apparently varies with the tem- 
perature, and in some cases has been known to take from 6 to 7 days. 
The tadpoles also hatch in different stages of development. Some 
of the newly hatched individuals have external gills fully exposed 
while others have their external gills partly covered by the oper- 
culum and are much more heavily pigmented. Near the time of 
hatching, the foam containing the embryos begins to liquefy and the 
active movement of the fully developed embryos or tadpoles in the 
liquefied foam drops them into the water below. Sometimes the 
whole egg foam mass with its contained tadpoles may be washed down 
by rain into the pool below. When the liquefied foam drops into the 
water the tiny bubbles in it disappear and the tadpoles swim actively 
in the water. A few rhacophorids lack the habit of "egg beating." 
For example, African frogs of the genus HyperoUus lay their eggs 
in small clusters directly in the water. Kassina is apparently quite 
closely related to HyperoUus^ and it likewise lacks the habit of '"''egg 
beating." Its eggs are small and pigmented and laid singly or in 
pairs in the water. 

Microhylidae. — In the narrow-mouthed toad, Microhyla carolinen- 
sis, the eggs are pigmented, firm, and rather distinctively shaped. 
The complement ranges from 700 to 1,000 eggs which float at the 
surface film. The tiny tadpoles lack teeth on the mandibles. They 
metamorphose, in a period ranging from as little as 20 to as much 
as 70 days, into tiny frogs. This sort of life history is fairly typical 
of most microhylids but not of all of them. Some species lack the 
prolonged free-swimming tadpole stage; either the egg hatches as 
an advanced-staged tadpole or metamorphosis is completed within 



AMPHIBIANS — GOESr 441 

the egg and a tiny f roglet hatches out. This is so, for example, with 
Breviceps pentheri, of British West Africa. In this species the eggs 
are laid in holes on land and there is no free larval stage at all; the 
developing embryo lacks many of the typical tadpole structures. 
The tail is quite large and is presumably used as a respiratory struc- 
ture, as it is in the genus Eleutherodactylus. The extreme microhylid 
life history is shown by the genus Hoploph/yne of East Africa. 
Hoplophryne uluguruensis lays its eggs between the leaves of wild 
bananas or within the nodes of the stems of bamboos which have 
been split sufficiently to permit the entrance of this small and ex- 
ceedingly depressed frog. Small amounts of water are retained in 
the leaves of wild bananas, but its presence has not been determined 
for the internodal chambers of the bamboos. The eggs hatch mto 
tadpoles which have become specialized, as is the case in certain 
hylids, for existence in these rather barren environments. They 
have apparently taken up the habit of eating frog eggs, perhaps of 
their own species, and the tadpoles are consequently modified. Super- 
ficially these modifications remind one of those found, for example, 
in Hyla hmnnea. The teeth are reduced to the point of being en- 
tirely absent, and the tail, like that of Hyla hrunnea, is long, slender, 
and whiplike. These modifications are, of course, apparently sec- 
ondary and in no sense imply close relationship. 

Phrynomeridae. — Apparently the African toads deposit their eggs 
in open water. The eggs hatch out into tadpoles which later meta- 
morphose much as do most microhylids. 

DISCUSSION 

To be somewhat anthropomorphic, it is evident that the amphib- 
ians are still, today, striving toward elimination of the open-water 
habitat for their eggs and early larvae, as were the primitive forms 
that gave rise to the higher vertebrates, in which the amnion is 
always present. This leads, of course, to the basic problem of what 
were the life-history modifications that made possible the development 
of the amniotes. 

As can be seen from the foregoing survey, the problems arising 
from the deposition of eggs in open water may be avoided in part or 
in whole in several ways. There may be an acceleration of develop- 
ment so that the eggs and larvae are not left for so long a period of 
time subject to the catastrophies that may befall them in open water. 
Then, also, there is the retention of the eggs in the body of the mother. 
This, of course, is possible only when preceded by internal fertiliza- 
tion. The latter, though, has developed at least three times without 
leading to the amniote G.gg^ for the modern caecilians, most of the 
salamanders, and some of the frogs today practice this form of fer- 
tilization. Then there can be parental care, where the parent, instead 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

of abandoning the eggs, takes them with him, or her, as the case may 
be, and cares for them until development is advanced or even until 
transformation is complete. Furthermore, the deposition of the eggs 
in out-of-the-way places has been a successful device for getting the 
eggs away from open water. They may be deposited on land, in 
trees, or in little secluded bodies of water where they are more or 
less isolated, as in the bromeliad-breeding frogs. Correlated with 
these egg-protecting mechanisms, there may be direct development 
in which the larval stage is omitted. Since the larva of an amphib- 
ian is essentially an aquatic form, terrestrial breeding habits elim- 
inate the need for this stage in the life history. 

The following analysis, patterned after that of Gadow (1909), 
lists the major types of amphibian life histories and the families that 
have at least some representatives exhibiting such modifications. 

I. Eggs small, the larvae hatching in a comparatively early state of 
development. 

A. Eggs laid in water. 

1. Eggs laid in open ponds and streams : some representatives in all 
the families of salamanders except the Amphiumidae and the Pletho- 
dontidae and in all the families of anurans except the Centrolenidae, 
Dendrobatidae, and Rhinodermatidae. 

2. Eggs laid in underwater crevices and crannies (Plethodontidae) ; in 
specially walled-off parts of the pond (Hylidae) ; in basins of water 
collected in bromeliads, bananas, bamboo, etc. (Hylidae and Micro- 
hylidae) ; or in foamy masses (Leptodactylidae). 

B. Eggs deposited out of water. 

1. In holes, under logs, rocks, or debris, from which the larvae must 
make their way to the water, sometimes aided by heavy rains : 
Ambystomatidae, Amphiumidae, Plethodontidae, Leptodactylidae, 
Ranidae, and Rhacophoridae. 

2. On leaves (or sphagnum) above the water. The larvae on hatching, 
drop into the water below : Plethodontidae, Centrolenidae, Hylidae, 
and Rhacophoridae. 

II. Eggs relatively large and the young at least initiating metamorphosis while 
in the egg. 

A. Eggs deposited in damp situations and perhaps guarded but never 
carried about by either parent. 

1. The young hatching as larvae: Caecilidae, Plethodontidae, Lepto- 
dactylidae, Hylidae, Rauidae, Rhacophoridae, and Microhylidae. 

2. The young hatching as miniature replicas of the adults : Leptodac- 
tylidae, Leiopelmidae, Rhinodermatidae, Ranidae, Phacophoridae, 
and Microhylidae. 

B. Eggs and/or larvae carried about by a parent. 

1. By the male. 

a. Wrapped around the legs : Discoglossidae. 

b. In the vocal sacs : Rhinodermatidae. 

c. On the back : Pelobatidae, Dendrobatidae, Ranidae. 

2. By the female. 

a. Buried in the skin of the back : Pipidae. 

b. In a pouch or free on the back : Hylidae. 



AMPHIBIANS — GOm 443 

III. Eggs retained in the oviduct of the female and the young "born alive" : 
Caecilidae, Proteidae, Salamandridae, Plethodontidae, and Bufonidae. 

Perhaps the most obvious thing that can be ascertained by a study 
of the above outline is the fact that there is so little correlation 
between the life histories of the amphibians and their evolutionary 
relationship. Here we find a form of copulation in the caecilians 
and frogs, and internal fertilization without copulation particularly 
common in the salamanders. We find both small eggs with indirect 
development (with an intermediate, free-living larval stage), and 
large eggs with direct development, in the salamanders and in the 
frogs and toads. It has been shown by Moore (1942) that in certain 
groups of frogs there is a tendency to have larger eggs toward the 
Temperate Zones and smaller eggs toward the Tropics but even here 
there are exceptions (Moore, 1949), for Rana pipiens^ the leopard 
frog, lays larger eggs in Mexico than it does in the northern United 
States. But this does not explain the tendency toward large 
eggs and direct development in the leptodactylids, hylids, and 
rhacophorids, all of which are essentially tropical groups. 

It appears then that there is nothing about the diverse life his- 
tories of modern amphibians to give a sure clue to the development 
of the land Q>gg. Since this is so, perhaps we had best look at rep- 
tilian reproductive habits and see if it is possible to figure out the 
combination of factors that made possible the reptile pattern of 
reproduction. 

CHARACTERS OF REPTILIAN REPRODUCTION 

1. Internal fertilization. This is necessary because the sperm must enter the 

egg before the shell is deposited aroimd it by the glands of the oviduct. 

2. Copulation, an effective and apparently eflScient method of achieving internal 

fertilization. 

3. Eggs laid on land in a protected spot. (Sometimes the young are "born 

alive," but this is certainly secondary in the reptiles.) 
i. Egg with yolk mass large enough to carry the embryo through development, 
until the adult body form is reached. 

5. Development direct without an intermediate larval stage. 

6. Egg cleidoic, that is, with a fluid-filled amnion and protective shell. 

From a consideration of this list, we can trace a probable course 
for the evolution of breeding habits in the amphibian stock leading 
to the reptiles. The first step away from the primitive pattern of 
laying a large number of unprotected eggs in open water was prob- 
ably to lay the eggs in a sheltered spot away from the main body 
of the pond or stream. Next would come deposition of the eggs in 
a humid, protected spot on land, depending on some mechanism 
(heavy rains, flooding, falling from overhanging leaf, or transporta- 
tion by parent) to release and return the newly hatched larvae to 
the water. Once this stage was reached, an increase in yolk supply 
in the Q,gg would be advantageous since it would allow the embryo 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

to continue development when the releasing mechanism was delayed. 
With the protection of the eggs, the need for enormous numbers 
would be lessened, and the female could concentrate on producing a 
fewer number of large-yolked eggs. A continuation of the trend 
toward the prolongation of development within the egg would lead 
eventually to metamorphosis before hatching. With the elimination 
of the free-living larval period, the typical larval characters would 
tend to drop out, resulting in direct development. All these stages 
are represented in the life histories of modern amphibians. They 
are thus, we can be sure, all practicable ways for an amphibian to 
reproduce its kind. Furthermore, each step would seem to have a 
selective advantage over the one before. 

Somewhere along the line, these amphibian ancestors of the rep- 
tiles must have adopted the practice of internal fertilization with 
copulation. This, too, is found in modern amphibians and would 
seem to be advantageous for animals breeding on land. 

The stage would now be set for the development of the typical rep- 
tilian cleidoic egg with its fluid-filled amnion and protective shell. 
It is hard to visualize these structures evolving in an aquatic egg, 
but in one that was already terrestrial, anything that reduced the 
dependence of the developing embryo on environmental moisture 
would be decidedly advantageous. 

It is impossible to determine, of course, how these changes were 
correlated with the anatomical changes by which the amphibian 
body plan turned into the reptilian body plan, or even to know where 
we should draw the line separating the two orders. In the present 
state of our knowledge, it is at least permissible to hypothesize that 
by about the time the shelled amniote egg had developed, the animal 
that hatched from it had progressed far enough to be called a reptile, 
and this seems as good a place as any to draw the line. It has the 
advantage of being a line that separates the modem forms as well. 
It seems probable, though, that we should revise our conception of 
the significance of the cleidoic egg. Perhaps it was not the first 
reptiles that broke the bond yoking the vertebrates to the immediate 
vicinity of water for reproduction. It seems more likely that these 
reptiles descended from amphibians that were already fully terres- 
trial in their breeding habits, that practiced internal fertilization by 
copulation, and laid large-yolked eggs in sheltered spots on land, 
from which the young developed directly with no intermediate aquatic 
larval stage. 

As for the other amphibians, it is obvious that many of them have 
acquired independently one or more of the reptilian breeding charac- 
teristics listed above, but presumably not since the days when their 
ancestors paddled about in the Paleozoic puddles has any amphibian 
acquired them all and thus developed into an amniote. The rest of 



AMPHIBIANS — COIN 445 

the amphibians are either, evolutionarily spealring, still trying this 
method or that to avoid leaving their eggs in open water, or else, since 
reproduction in water seems inevitable, have, as a Chinese philosopher 
might have advised, learned to relax and enjoy it. 

LITERATURE CITED 

BWEB, D. W. 

1955. Tetrapod limb. Science, vol. 122, No. 3167, pp. 467-468. 
Gadow, Hans. 

1909. Amphibia and reptiles. xiii4-668 pp. London. 
GoiN, 0. J., and Goin, O. B. 

1956. Further comments on the origin of the tetrapods. Evolution, vol. 10, 

No. 4, pp. 440-441. 

GUNTEB, G. 

1956. Origin of the tetrapod limb. Science, vol. 123, No. 3195, pp. 495-496. 
Inger, R. F. 

1957. Ecological aspects of the origin of the tetrapods. Evolution, vol. 

11, No. 3, pp. 373-n376. 
Jameson, D. L. 

1955. Evolutionary trends in the courtship and mating behavior of Salien- 
tia. Systematic Zool., vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 105-119. 
Ltrrz, B. 

1947. Trends tovrards non-aquatic and direct development in frogs. Copeia, 

No. 4, pp. 242-252. 

1948. Ontogenetic evolution in frogs. Evolution, vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 29-39. 
MOOEE, J. A. 

1942. The role of temperature in speciation of frogs. Biol. Symposia, vol. 
6, pp. 189-213. 

1949. Geographic variation of adaptive characters in Rana pipiens Schreber. 

Evolution, vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 1-24. 
Noble, G. K. 

1931. Biology of the Amphibia. xiii+577pp. New York. 
Obton, G. 

1949. Larval development of Nectophrynoides tornieri (Roux), with com- 
ments on direct development in frogs. Ann. Carnegie Mus., vol. 31, 
art. 9, pp. 257-276. 
1951. Direct development in frogs. Turtox News, vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 2-6. 
1954. Original adaptive significance of the tetrapod limb. Science, vol. 
120, No. 3129, pp. 1042-1043. 
ROMEB, A. S. 

1957. Origin of amniote egg. Sci. Monthly, vol. 85, pp. 57-63. 

1958. Tetrapod limbs and early tetrapod life. Evolution, vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 

365-369. 



A Study of the Biology of Saturniid Moths 
in the Canal Zone Biological Area 



By A. D. Blest 

Department of Zoology, University College, London 



[With 5 plates] 



Current evolutionary biology has seen a striking revival of interest 
in the theory of protective coloration. The essence of the several 
separate hypotheses of which the theory is composed is that all, or 
nearly all, animal coloration is meaningful in that it confers pro- 
tective advantages upon the animals bearing it, and that the various 
categories of special adaptations, such as procrypsis, the mimicking 
of palatable forms by those which are distasteful, and the advertise- 
ment of distasteful forms by bright and contrasting color, have all 
been evolved in response to selection pressures mediated by predators. 
The earlier widespread interest in protective adaptations, which was 
largely fostered by Sir Edward Poulton and his school in Oxford at 
the end of the 19th century, did not survive in its full vigor to ex- 
perience the discipline which 20th-century genetic analysis could have 
imposed upon its largely anecdotal framework. Instead, in the period 
betw^een the wars, it withered under the critical fire of laboratory 
zoologists who were unable to accept the apparent gap between the 
abilities which protective adaptations seemed to demand of the preda- 
tors against which the}^ had supposedly been evolved, and the abilities 
which such animals were known, as scientific fact, to possess. 

To a great extent, this skepticism followed from an experimental 
discipline of behavioral research which placed too much emphasis 
upon the simpler reflex and tropistic phenomena. Then, too, nat- 
ural selection had replaced God in the problem of creation ; and its 
creators, losing faith in their demon, were now unwilling to admit 
that it was a fine enough instrument to achieve those ends which were 
manifestly present in nature as faits accomplis. On the one hand, in 
the shape of butterflies perfectly resembling dead and moldy leaves, 
warningly striped and nauseous beetles, or moths equipped with giant 
owl-like eyes, they could see all the evidence for a sophistication of 
perceptual ability surely only to be found in man himself: on the 

447 

536608—60 30 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

otlier, they were aware of a vertebrate world not sharing human 
abilities in lesser degree, but brutish in the pejorative sense; reflex; 
qualitatively different. 

Our hunting fathers told the story 
Of the sadness of the creatures 
Pitied the limits and the lack 
Set in their finished features . . .^ 

The 20th-century biologist surveyed the white rat in its aseptic 
cage, solving with deplorable sloth problems barely related to any 
that it would be likely to encounter in its own unhygienic habitat, 
glanced with discomfort at the baroque elaboration of natural forms, 
and proposed, with a conviction which in the worst cases was soon 
to become hysterical, a series of wholly implausible alternative ex- 
planations. With these, we need not be concerned here; it is enough 
to note that they ranged from flat denial of the evidence, to asser- 
tions that coincidence alone needed to be invoked as a sufficient 
explanation of it. 

The renaissance of protective-coloration theory has to a great extent 
followed the Second World War. The original accounts of tropical 
insects from which it was derived came from experienced field nat- 
uralists, such as Bates, Hudson, and Belt. And, again, its redis- 
covery came very largely from the European group of ethologists, 
also, basically, field naturalists, who were stimulated by accounts of 
experimental work on cryptic coloration started between the wars, 
and admirably summarized in a now classic work by the Cambridge 
zoologist H. B. Cott (1940). 

The major problems with which they had to deal may be easily 
set forth: First of all, faith in the efficiency of selection pressures 
had to be restored. Secondly, the behavior of predators needed to 
be so analyzed as to reveal the manner in which the selection pressures 
created by them must operate. Lastly, the genetic material upon 
which selection must act and its potentiality for variation had to be 
related to the findings of the behavior studies. These various lines 
of approach and some of the findings have been described by 
Tinbergen (1958). 

My own connection with these studies began in 1953, when, under 
the supervision of Dr. N. Tinbergen at Oxford, a program of work 
was started on the functions of the eyespot patterns of insects. The 
outcome of this research was a demonstration that the eyelike patterns 
on the wings of many butterflies do, in fact, serve to scare away avian 
predators, and that the selective advantages which they confer are of 
a high order (Blest, 1956, 1957a). At this stage in the investigation 
a further problem was presented; there are groups of insects some 



^ W. H. Aiiden, Collected shorter poems. London, 1950. 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 449 

of whose members possess eyespot patterns, while their near relatives 
are either aposematically colored, or are equipped with procryptic 
patterns. Eyespots are characteristically concealed at rest, and ex- 
hibited in response to disturbance by siidden movements of the por- 
tions of the body either bearing them or concealing them. What, then, 
is the relation between the distinct modes of behavior that might be 
expected to be linked with the various types of coloration and from 
what evolutionary source have they been derived ? Numerous studies 
have testified to the close association between signal movements and 
the morphological patterns that they display (Tinbergen, 1952; Blest, 
in press [B]) ; here was an ideal case for a comparative investigation. 
The most readily available group of insects was the tropical Sat- 
urniidae, or "Emperor moths," living pupae of which are freely 
available in the commercial market where they satisfy the demands 
of amateur lepidopterists. The results of this survey will be described 
later in detail ; here we may note that it soon became apparent that 
a full understanding of the relationship between the different types of 
display could only be obtained by research in the field. 

In addition, yet another problem had revealed itself : the neotropi- 
cal hemileucine saturniid moths, whenever they settle into the rest 
position from flight, perform a rhythmic side-to-side "rocking" move- 
ment of the entire body, in which the head rotates through an arc 
around the longitudinal axis of the body, and the legs of each side 
are alternately flexed and extended. This striking movement was 
first described by Dr. Margaret Bastock and myself (Bastock and 
Blest, 1958) in the Brazilian Automeris aurantiaca Weymer. A de- 
tailed analysis showed that, if the variants introduced by age are 
controlled, essentially the strength of the rocking response, as meas- 
ured by the nmnber of oscillations performed, is influenced solely 
by the duration of the preceding flight performance, to which it 
bears a strictly linear relationship (fig. 1) (Blest, 1958). Now this 
relationship is of particular interest, for it is clearly very similar to 
that which the rhythmic components of the honey-bee communication 
dance bear to the distance flown between foraging ground and hive 
(Steche, 1957; Von Frisch and Jander, 1957). Since the bee dance 
is the only example of animal language that is comparable in its 
apparent achievement to our own, any evidence that may throw light 
on its physiological and evolutionary antecedents is of immense inter- 
est. Thus the causal basis of the moths' behavior had to be deter- 
mined, as well as its role in communication or otherwise. 

In fact, no definite answers to this last problem of function have 
been obtained; but, to anticipate, we shall see that the results of 
observations on the rocking response can be combined with a knowl- 
edge of the protective displays to yield a new approach to a wholly 
distinct and quite fundamental problem in modem biology: the 



450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




10 13 20 25 

Flight duratien (minutes) 



35 



Figure 1.— -The relation between the strength of the'rocking'response, measured as the num- 
ber of oscillations of the side-to-side movement performed, and the duration of a preceding 
period of forced, tethered flight for Automeris aurantiaca at 1.5 hours, and 6 ±2 hours 
after eclosion. 

phenomenon of specific age. All, or nearly all, animals imdergo 
senescent change; all ultimately die; and the duration of life, or, at 
least, the average pattern of longevity, is a property that is char- 
acteristic of a given species. Yet in no animal group have the 
mechanisms responsible for these neatly adjusted limitations of life- 
span been worked out. 

At the beginning of July 1958, through the good offices of the 
Director of the Canal Zone Biological Area, Dr. Martin Moynihan, 
and aided by a grant from the U.S. National Science Foundation 
to the Smithsonian Institution, fieldwork on the Central American 
Saturniidae was finally started. 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 451 

Barro Colorado Island lies in Gatun Lake. Consisting of some 
13 square miles of seasonal tropical evergreen forest, it was estab- 
lished artificially when the surrounding area of lower land was 
flooded during the construction of the Panama Canal. The forest 
is intersected by trails, wliich are maintained by the staff of the re- 
search station, covering the whole island save for the clearing in 
wliich the living accommodation and laboratories are placed. The 
forest itself is not, as has sometimes been stated, virgm, for areas of 
it were under cultivation before it was taken over as a biological 
reserve in 1923. Wliile for the botanist, therefore, the basic ecologi- 
cal status of much of the forest may appear questionable, for the 
zoologist, and especially for the invertebrate zoologist, the whole 
area is uniquely suitable for the investigation of tropical biology. 
To date the greater part of the intensive work carried out on the 
island since its inception has been faunistic; thus the necessary founda- 
tion for ecological research has been laid to a degree which probably 
no other New World tropical area can equal. Even so, discoveries 
can still be made even in the best-worked groups. The arachnids 
are among the best known of the island's invertebrates, thanks to 
the redoubtable efforts of Prof. A. M. Chickering: nevertheless I 
found three specimens of a ricinuleid near to Cryptocellus emargi- 
natus Ewing living imder stones in deep litter on the forest floor. 
While the order has been found, mostly as single specimens, in 
Honduras, Costa Eica, Nicaragua, and Colombia, this is the first 
record for Panama. 

For the biologist who has been accustomed to the undemanding 
conditions of temperate woodlands, the inaccessibilty of the greater 
part of the tropical fauna is disconcerting. Much of the copious in- 
sect life is confined to the forest canopy some 90 feet or more above 
the forest floor. There is an abundance of different species even 
within restricted taxonomic groups, and this prolific speciation is one 
of the most important and still imperfectly understood features of 
tropical zoology. In the course of a 6-month period, some 35 species 
of saturniid moths were attracted to lights placed in the laboratory 
clearing, and this tally by no means exhausted the known fauna of 
the area. Many of the species were common. Yet the picture yielded 
by attempts to search for the larvae was a very different one. Those 
of only one species, Lonomia cynira^ were found commonly, and this 
because of their habit of resting in small groups on the trunks of 
slender second-growth trees, at a height of some 2 to 4 feet above the 
ground. Very occasionally the larvae of some six other species were 
encountered, generally as fully grown individuals in their last instar, 
when the initially gregarious caterpillars have scattered and are living 
singly on their food plants. Yet this meager harvest was the result 
of several weeks of quite frequent searching. Most of the larvae of 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

the 4,000-odd species of Lepidoptera recorded from the island may be 
assumed to feed in the canopy, where they are beyond the reach of the 
biologist. The rearing of tropical insects, too, is not made easy by the 
presence of their normal pathogens. To breed tropical saturniids 
in a European laboratory is paradoxically an easy business, for they 
will accept a wide range of substitute food plants and do not readily 
become infected with bacterial or virus disease. In the Tropics, the 
mortality from disease is high, and most species have specialized feed- 
ing habits which are not easily determined. 

For the greater part of the work, then, the moths were attracted to 
photoflood lights placed on the outside walls of the laboratories. 
Wliile a few moths would generally come to light on most evenings, 
the peak emergences always occurred just before the new moon. They 
did not fly uniformly throughout the night ; there appear to be bursts 
of activity at localized times, the main flights occurring in particular 
at about 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. A given species, too, often has a preferred 
flight time, which in some cases may be highly restricted. Dirphia 
iPeriphoba) hircia^ for example, on Barro Colorado, tended to restrict 
its activity to the 4 a.m. flight, and on each night the whole flight of 
the small population near the laboratory was apparently completed 
within a 10-minute period. Most of the moths arriving at light 
were, from their perfect condition, quite clearly undergoing their 
first flight after emergence from the pupa, for when flying under 
tropical conditions these very large moths soon suffer conspicuous 
damage to their wings. 

Conveniently, these moths are highly resistant to a wide variety 
of quite drastic experimental procedures. Usually, after capture at 
an environmental temperature of some 26° to 29° C. they were stored 
in an icebox at 6° C. overnight, yet comparison with individuals which 
had not been so stored showed that their behavior was in no way 
impaired by this treatment. After they had been allowed to warm 
up to the surrounding temperature, their display behavior was ex- 
amined by gently stimulating them. Much of the actions that re- 
sulted was recorded on film and on 35-mm. color transparencies. 

The protective displays of saturniid moths, unlike those of mantids, 
do not require very specific stimuli for their release. Four subfami- 
lies are found on Barro Colorado: the Rhescyntinae, Citheroniinae, 
Hemileucinae, and Saturniinae. Of these four, only the Rhescyntinae 
and Saturniinae show any responsiveness when at rest to moving 
visual stimuli — shadows or solid objects in their vicinity, and the 
like. They will also respond to tactile stimuli, which alone elicit the 
protective displays of the other two subfamilies. 

The protective behavior falls into the following main categories: 

(1) Behavior which, teleologically speaking, is directed toward 
the quickest method of escape available to the insect. Thus, Gofaxa 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 453 

decrescens at rest shows a generalized resemblance to dead, brownish 
foliage. Tactile stimuli cause the moth to fly suddenly away, using 
the first depression stroke of its flight response to project it from the 
vertical substrate upon which it is resting. 

(2) The use of eyespot patterns. These, in the New World Hemi- 
leucinae, are exclusively borne on the hind wings. The moths when at 
rest show a generalized resemblance to dead and folded leaves. Wlien 
the moths are touched lightly, the forewings are moved forward to 
expose the eyespots. The moth may also make a series of little "hops" 
by performing depression flicks of the wings. The stages in such a 
display performance are illustrated in plate 2, figures 1 and 2. 
These eyespot patterns appear to "parasitize" the inborn responses 
of small avian predators to their own enemies. It has been shown 
experimentally that the simultaneous presentation of an eyespot 
pattern with a prey object will inhibit or delay the feeding re- 
sponses of various small European passerines, and may even frighten 
them away (Blest, 1957a). This is not a very efficient form of pro- 
tective coloration, for the individual predators soon become habituated 
to the eyespots and learn to ignore them. 

(3) The acquisition of a nauseous taste or odor, coupled with an 
aposematic or "warning" display. Examples of these displays are 
shown in plate 5. Even within the Hemileucinae the nature of the 
nauseous material varies. Dirphia spp. possess an unpleasant, or, in 
the case of D. {Periflioha) spp., a foul odor, and nauseous body fluids 
and meconium. The advanced species of Hylesia are equipped with 
venomous hairs on the abdomen; so venomous, in fact, that in areas 
of Peru and Venezuela where certam species may, periodically, 
emerge in large numbers, there have been sporadic outbreaks of an 
eczematous skin condition caused by contact with the loose hairs. 

It has been shown that birds can learn to avoid prey objects after 
no more than one or a few encounters, if the prey is sufficiently 
nauseous (see reviews in Cott, 1940, and Blest, 195Tb), and experi- 
ments on Barro Colorado have shown that marmosets learn with 
similar rapidity. This is an efficient mode of coloration, for, by the 
sacrifice of a relatively small proportion of the population, the ma- 
jority of the individuals are heavily protected. Generally, such 
species are equipped with conspicuous or gaudy coloration — striped 
or spotted patterns with a predominance of yellow, red, white, and 
black pigmentation; adaptively, this is certainly a device to improve 
the rapidity of the predators' learning processes. 

Now, it is apparent that tlie efficiencies of these various protective 
devices are not equal. Habituation to eyespot patterns occurs rapidly ; 
one might be tempted to suppose that the interpolated hopping move- 
ments must necessarily increase the intimidating eifect of the display 
but this is not so. While some individual birds may become so 



454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

frightened of displaying moths that they will in the end wholly avoid 
them, others, perhaps the majority, after habituation reach a state in 
which the rhythmic movements act, as do most prey movements, to 
release attack. Thus the possession of rhythmic display components 
is not an unmixed blessing (Blest, 1957b), and these eyespot displays 
are possibly among the least efficient modes of protective behavior; 
they are, in fact, always lines of defense secondary to cryptic or pro- 
cryptic coloration. These latter modes of coloration, when unaccom- 
panied by secondary defense mechanisms, have their own typical 
protective behavior. 

Moths possessing specialized procryptic behavior closely resemble 
objects found commonly in their environment, such as dead leaves, 
bark, etc., and their behavior is closely adapted to their coloration. 
They exhibit no display of any kind, and are unresponsive even to 
violent stimulation. They will, indeed, withstand interference to the 
point of mutilation without responding. One response to interfer- 
ence is, however, retained : the righting response. Moths placed on 
their backs in an inverted position right themselves by elevating all 
the wings so that their dorsal surfaces touch over the thorax. This is 
an adaptive procedure, for the procryptic patterns of the saturniids 
are confined to the upper surfaces of the wings in all but a few cases. 
Procryptic coloration and behavior necessitate certain correlated 
trends; for example, dispersion in the environment sufficient to 
prevent too frequent prey-predator encounters (de Ruiter, 1955). 

Now the suggestion was earlier made (Blest, 1957b), on the basis 
of a small survey of the behavior of the world Saturniidae, that these 
various modes of display behavior were not evolved independently 
within the group, but were instead evolved as a series in which ad- 
vanced species gained displays of high efficiency by modifying both 
their coloration and behavior from the primitive displays possessed 
by their ancestors. 

The primitive display type was supposedly the simple rhythmic 
display, whose components were suggested to be derived from flight 
movements. The heavy-bodied members of the family are unable to 
fly from rest until they have first raised the working temperature 
of their thoracic muscles to some 35° C. by a period of "shivering." 
If they are strongly stimulated during the shivering process, they 
will perform more-or-less ineffectual flapping movements of the 
wings. It seemed reasonable to argue that the selection and stabiliza- 
tion of certain components of these flapping movements might have 
given rise to rhythmic displays, the subsequent modification of which 
yielded the remaining display types in this order: First, the eyespot 
patterns from which the rhythmic components are missing; next, as 
alternatives, cryptic coloration and behavior, and the various degrees 
of aposematic display. Finally, in the case of aposematic insects, 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Blest 



Plate 1 




The typical resting posture of tire Hemileucinae. A male Automeris 



aurantiaca. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Blest 



PLATE 2 




1. Automeris liberia performing a primitive rhythmic display. Note that the abdomen is 
concealed by the hind wings. Trinidad. 




2. Automeris egeus performing a rhythmic display. Trinidad. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Blest 



PLATE 3 




Smithsonian Rep)ort, 1 959 — Blest 



Plate 4 




1. Automerina auletes at rest. Note the highly specialized cryptic markings. Panama. 




2. Automerina auletes displaying after a tactile disturbance. Note the elevation of the wings, 
the curling of the abdomen, and the reduced eyespots. Panama. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Blest 



Plate 5 




1. Dirphia {Periphobd) sp. In display. Note the strong elevation of the wings, the curled 
and banded abdomen, and the protracted, pale antenna. Panama. 




1. llytfMci cuniliu m display. l\ole i he total clc\atiun of the wings. The abdominal hairs 

are poisonous. Trinidad. 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 455 

certain species in the genera Eudyaria and Gerodirphia appear to 
have acquired so great a level of distastefulness linked with general- 
ized aposematic coloration that display has become unnecessary, and 
is no longer maintained by selection. Although individuals of these 
species show themselves capable of performing normal displays, in 
most they are either transient or absent; yet the existence of "per- 
fect" displays m this small mmority of individuals leaves no doubt 
that this elimmation of the aposematic display pattern has been a 
secondary change. 

A major aim, then, of the work on Barro Colorado was the exam- 
ination of this evolutionary succession in a more narrowly defined 
range of species, by which it was hoped that the intermediate stages 
between the display types would be revealed. This rather optimistic 
expectation was, surprisingly, fulfilled; 21 species of hemileucines 
were found on Barro Colorado. Twelve more species were observed 
during a 6-week period spent in the Arima Valley of Trinidad, fol- 
lowing a generous invitation from the New York Zoological Society 
to work for a period at their Trinidad Field Station. With the addi- 
tion of 10 species seen as the result of purchasing live pupae from 
Argentina, Mexico, and Brazil, t\\Q total is now 43 species within 
this subfamily alone. This series is a particularly valuable one, since 
the Hemileucinae exhibit most of the major types of protective col- 
oration found in the Saturniidae, and the interrelationships between 
them can be readily worked out. There is no space in this article 
to present the detailed arguments through which the evolutionary 
succession has been deduced, but the changes which are believed to 
have occurred are as follows : 

The primitive display type within the Hemileucinae is, in fact, a 
rhythmic display, linked with hindwing eyespot patterns, in which 
the forewings are protracted following tactile disturbance to expose 
the eyespots, and the moth executes little hops by means of depression 
flicks of the wings. This type of behavior is found in a large number 
of species of the genus Automeris (13 out of the 20 species so far 
seen) . The flicking movements are regularly spaced in time, at inter- 
vals of betw^een 0.5 and 1 second, and the complete flick movement 
itself is completed within little more than one-tenth of a second. 
Analyzed with the cine camera each flick is found to be a complete 
flight stroke appearing in isolation, and if the moths are very strongly 
stimulated, intermediates between true flapping flight and the ritual- 
ized display flicks can often be obtained. In some species of Auto- 
meris (e.g., A. janus), the flick movements are accompanied by quite 
perceptible "shivering" movements of the wings; the warming-up 
movements preparatoiy to flight have not been wholly eliminated 
from the displays. Since it is known that shivering movements by 



456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

themselves stimulate small birds to attack, it is reasonable to suppose 
that selection should act to eliminate these movements, and such has 
been the case. 

The next stage in the evolutionary succession is a simple one: the 
elimination of the rhytlnnic components, which has been achieved 
merely by raising their threshold. Some species, for example, A. 
metnusae, perform the rhytlmiic part of their display to very light 
tactile stimulation; others (e.g., A. corcsus) require strong tactile 
stimulation before it can be elicited, even to the point of mutilation. 
Further species, such as A. tridens, appear to be behaviorally poly- 
morphic. Some individuals of a population can be made to "hop" 
if violently treated, others cannot, and the differences are individually 
consistent over periods of days; finally, some species (e.g., A. godarti) 
never perform a rhythmic display. 

Meanwhile, certain other changes have been taking place. "Whereas 
no species of Automeris is highly unpalatable, there are at least dif- 
ferences in their degree of acceptability to predators. A. foucheri 
is eaten readily by coatis and by the relatively unfastidious mar- 
mosets. A. junonia is accepted by marmosets but rejected by coatis. 
Whether this trend toward unpalatability is another aspect of the 
changes in the display pattern is not yet certainly known, but it 
seems likely. Certainly, an increasing feature of the more specialized 
displays is the introduction of curling components of the abdomen. 
In the species with full eyespot displays, this component merely 
tends to increase the apparent size of the displaying moth. But, 
ultimately, it becomes linked with another evolutionary trend, the 
reduction and, eventually, the elimination of the eyespot patterns 
themselves. Now in some species, such as Automeris aurantiaca, the 
eyespots have become reduced; the abdomen, on the other hand, is 
more strongly curled during display, and especially so in females, 
whose abdomens are so swollen with eggs that, curled, they present a 
series of greenish- white bars (the egg mass shining through the inter- 
segmental membrane). The hindwings are also protracted so that 
the abdomen is made visible from above. There is also a tendency 
for both pairs of wings to be somewhat elevated. In more highly 
evolved species (e.g., Automerina auletes, Hypercliiria nausica) the 
abdominal curling is yet more marked, and the wings are even more 
strongly elevated, now exposing the lateral aspects of the abdomen 
while not wholly concealing the small eyespots. 

This little series has been followed out in a very restricted group 
of closely related genera. The next stages are not found in this 
group, but appear to follow from it so logically that there is no 
doubt of their starting point. The genus Hylesia contains a large 
number of small brownish moths, clearly derived from the Automeris 
group of genera, probably from Gamelia (Michener, 1952). Most, 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 457 

but not all, of the species are equipped with poisonous abdominal 
hairs. The species which independent characters indicate to be the 
most primitive possess extremely tiny vestigial eyespots. In Hylesia 
nanus^ at least, these are not exhibited during the display, for the 
wings are so strongly elevated that their dorsal surfaces touch over 
the insect's back. Here, however, there is no abdominal curling 
component. In the vast majority of Hylesm the eyespots have been 
eliminated altogether, the abdominal curling components are exag- 
gerated to the point at which the terminalia are approximated to 
the ventral surface of the thorax in display, and the insects are 
definitely distasteful, for they are rejected by marmosets and coatis. 
Throughout these displays the antennae, which are small, are kept 
retracted against the sides of the thorax, where they are concealed 
among the concolorous thoracic hair. The final episode of evolu- 
tionary history, in which the antennae are incorporated into the 
displays, again necessitates a jump to a further group of genera, 
that containing DirpJiia and its allies. 

These moths do not possess poisonous hairs, but they are malodor- 
ous, and in palatability tests with mannosets and coatis, unequivocally 
distasteful. They are also tough. While few Automeris will with- 
stand a bite from a marmoset without suffering disablement, the 
moths in the present group will withstand a great deal of interfer- 
ence without distress. Primitively, the antennae are small and not 
exhibited during display (e.g., Molipjya simUUma, M. latemedia, 
Dirphia (Dirphiopsis) ewnedide^ D. (D.) agis). In Dirphia {Dir- 
pMa) avia, they are protracted throughout display, and are relatively 
larger. In D. {Periphoha) spp. they are very much larger, bright 
lemon yellow, and clearly serve as an aposematic signal in themselves. 
Finally, in this group, as we have seen, the degree of distastefulness 
has apparently reached a point at which over-all aposematic coloration 
independent of display has become a possibility, and sustained 
displays are no longer performed. The whole series is summarized in 
plates 2-5. 

Thus all the hypothetical stages in a long series of evolutionary 
change have been found to be present in contemporary species, so 
neatly dovetailed that we can have confidence in their validity. 
Wliile they may be extended to include the various other types of 
protective coloration, to do so would require a discussion of some of 
the other saturniid subfamilies in which the best evidence is to be 
found, and for this there is no space in this article. 

Now the mode of protective coloration should have one important 
potential evolutionary consequence which has hitherto been over- 
looked: the modification of lifespan. Once the individual insect's 
reproductive life is over, its further fate as an individual might be 
supposed to exert no influence upon the survival and reproductive 



458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

L R 


1 




Figure 2. — The general Iform of the rocking 
response. A, The extremes of movement in 
Dirphia eumedide as seen from in front, the 
wings having been removed. The two 
drawings represent the farthest points 
reached in a left and a right swing respec- 
tively. B, The pattern and timing of the 
response in D. {Periphoba) hircia. Note 
the acceleration of the response toward its 
close. In this species the head alone is 
moved. 



Z, 5 



* 7 



10 



11 



12 - 



13 - 



14 





B. 

capacity of the species as a whole. In fact, it has been argued 
(Medawar, 1952) that, in most cases, the decline in reproductive po- 
tential with age is necessarily accompanied by a decrease in the 
selective forces acting on the individual. Exceptions to this general- 
ization have been recognized in the social animals, where group selec- 
tion can act to lengthen the postreproductive life of individuals whose 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 459 

experience is of value to the social unit. Despite the plausibility 
of this argument, and the clear evidence for the action of group selec- 
tion which the elaborately differentiated sterile castes of the social 
insects unequivocally present, Williams (1957) has dismissed the 
role of group selection as an important factor in the modulation of 
postreproductive longevities. 

The types of protective coloration that have been described above 
all have one feature in common: they impose patterns of learning 
upon the predators against which they are directed. Consider the 
outcome, first, of an encounter between a naive predator and a palat- 
able procryptic prey. The loss of the individual prey cannot influ- 
ence the reproductive capacity of the residual prey population di- 
rectly ; but the predator has now learned to a greater or lesser degree 
how to find more preys, and the lesson must act to the disadvantage of 
the prey population. The probability that the predator population will 
learn to find preys will be increased the longer the preys live. Thus, if 
group selection is able to act, we must expect it to reduce the post- 
reproductive longevity. 

Conversely, an unpalatable aposematic postreproductive prey 
trains the naive predator to avoid other members of the population, 
and group selection should act to augment their postreproductive 
lifespan. How well do the hemileucines fit in with this evolutionary 
scheme? 

In the first place, group selection can surely act in this case : hemi- 
leucine females lay their total complement of eggs in batches, over a 
period of from one to a few days. The larvae are typically gregarious 
until the final instars, grown synchronously, pupate at about the same 
time, and emerge over a period of a few days in phase with a lunar 
cycle. Thus the siblings derived from each female are available at 
the same time in the same ecological areas for the action of group 
selection. 

So far the data available appear to support the hypothesis well : 
the procryptic Lonomia cynira is short lived — at 26° to 29° C. none 
out of 40 odd individuals hatched from pupae lived for longer than 
4 days, and most had died by the third day from eclosion. The 
distasteful Dirphia {Periplioba) hircia is long lived, certainly for 
10 to 14 days after capture, and similar longevities have been noted 
for D. (Dirphiopsis) eumedide and D. (D.) agis. However, this 
part of the hypothesis may only be reliably tested when more data, 
obtained under controlled conditions, become available from further 
field and laboratory studies. As far as life tables are concerned, at 
the moment we have none, but there seems to be every hope that they 
will bear out the present tentative hypothesis. 

We can, however, use the rapidly accumulating information about 
the significance of the rocking response to provide a speculation about 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

one of the paths through which the hemileucine lifespan appears to 
be limited. The general form of the response is shown diagram- 
matically in figure 2. In intact, free moths it is normally performed 
whenever the insects settle into their stereotyped resting position, 
whatever the nature of the preceding activity. All that is required 
for its release is a contact stimulus to any one of the six tarsi. The 
number of oscillations of the rhythm is readily counted with the naked 
eye, and may be used to give a measure of the strength of the response. 
Moreover, the coordination and release of the rocking pattern are not 
prejudiced by quite drastic surgical procedures involving gross mutila- 
tion of the moth. Thus it is peculiarly susceptible to exact laboratory 
analysis. The full details of this work are to be published elsewhere 
(Blest, in press) ; although the experimental procedures are made 
somewhat complicated by the presence of interactions between the 
patterns of oviposition and display, in addition to those of flight and 
settling, the picture given by the interaction between the last two re- 
sponses is a simple one. The strength of the rocking response is 
basically determined by two factors alone: (1) The duration of the 
individual's preceding flight performance (fig. 1) ; (2) the age 
from the act of eclosion from the pupa, the strength of the response 
diminishing with age. Now, by a happy accident, the species of 
Automeris which happened to be freely available for experimental 
work, Automeris aurantiaca^ is one whose display behavior is inter- 
mediate between a typical eyespot display and an aposematic display 
of the Dirj^hia or Hylesia type, and, to a great extent it shares the 
toughness of these aposematic insects. It is peculiarly resilient to 
experimental interference ; moths have been flown and tested for the 
strength of the rocking response after removal of the abdomen, the 
replacement of their blood by Ringer's solutions containing various 
amounts of added blood sugars, the removal of their antennae and of 
the wind receptors of the head, and the complete section of the indi- 
rect flight muscles and bilateral excision of the wing bases. None 
of these procedures prejudices the relation between flight perform- 
ance and the strength of the rocking response. From this and other 
evidence of a more complex and less direct nature, we can conclude 
that these interactions are controlled by the central nervous system 
without any feedback from the state of metabolic reserves, or from 
the exteroceptive or proprioceptive consequences of flight being in- 
volved ; all that is required for the registration of flight performance 
in the central nervous system and its subsequent expression in terms of 
the rocking response is that the normal pathways for the elicitation 
and maintenance of flight should be stimulated, and that flight itself 
should be performed. In the experiments that have just been inad- 
equately outlined the moths were suspended during flight from artery 
forceps holding a small pinch of the abdominal cuticle; yet the in- 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 461 

cremental course of the rocking response did not differ from that 
found in free-flying moths. If the moths are suspended and receive 
the appropriate stimuli for flight without flight being released (prep- 
arations may, for a variety of reasons, become refractory), the rock- 
ing response does not increase in strength. Wliat is being registered, 
therefore, is the duration of the activity of some part of the central 
nervous system which excites and regulates the flight response. This 
situation is of peculiar interest because the rocking response is stable 
to retesting for periods of at least 90 minutes, and probably for 
longer ; hence, the whole process of registration is comparable in some 
respects to a learning process in that a stable change is imposed upon 
the nervous system. It differs from conventional learning processes 
in that there is no problem of perceptual filtering to complicate the 
issue, and the quantitative and qualitative nature of the output is 
rigidly determined. While this simplicity and rigidity may be for- 
mally inconvenient for the learning theorist, it offers experimental ad- 
vantages for an attack on the physiology of learning processes which 
it is hoped may one day be put to proper use. 

However, it is a different aspect of the rocking response which bears 
upon the problem of lifespan. 

A statistical analysis of the relations betAveen rocking pattern and 
other responses has shown that it is linked to a system that exerts an 
inhibitory "brake" action on flight behavior. Apparently the strength 
of the rocking response is in some sense a measure of the strength of 
this inhibitory potential. If the rocking response is strong, then the 
threshold of the flight response tends to be high and its persistence 
poor. Although these parameters of flight performance have not yet 
been placed on a firm quantitative basis in relation to the rocking po- 
tential, it is already apparent that in this respect the quantitative im- 
plications of the rocking response are considerably less strict than in 
the case of the relationship to flight performance per se. Now the 
strength of the rocking potential follows a definite course with age. 
Immediately after hatching from the pupa it is strong ; thereafter, it 
falls off', most steeply in the few hours that immediately follow the 
act of eclosion from the pupa. Moreover, the slopes of the regression 
of rocking response on flight time (fig. 1) also fall off (fig. 3). Thus, 
ultimately, an age is reached at which (a) no overt rocking move- 
ment can be performed, and (h) all flight durations would, in princi- 
ple, in any case yield the same rocking strength, for the regression 
coefficients have fallen to zero. Since the rocking potential is held to 
be linked to an inhibitory potential, it may be argued that the conclu- 
sion of these age changes in the rocking response should see the total 
disinhibition of flight. 

Hemileucine moths do not feed, and their mouth parts are, in fact, 
vestigial ; they are partially closed metabolic systems, and their life- 



462 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



1.00 




Figure 3. — The relation between the regression coefficients of rocking response strength on 
flight time and age from eclosion. (See also fig. 1.) 

spans have a necessary upper limit which is determined by their food 
reserves at hatching. The relaxation of the brake on flight behavior 
must result in an immediately ensuing consumption of metabolic 
reserves, which w^ill prove fatal. An upper limit to the hemileucine 
lifespan, then, is set by a physiological "clock" located in the central 
nervous system, and it is reasonable to examine the possibility that 
selection has acted upon the characteristics of this clock to modulate 
the longevities of different species. 

So far the available information is in excellent accord with this 
general hypothesis. For Automeris aurantiaca the calculated upper 
limit is about 9 to 10 days at 20° C, which is in good agreement with 
the order of the lifespan observed at this temperature. Although in 
virgin females flight behavior is blocked by inhibition from competing 
reproductive responses, namely, the assumption of the specialized 
calling posture in which receptive females await the arrival of mates, 
the death of males is preceded by just that burst of violent and un- 



BIOLOGY OF SATURNIID MOTHS — BLEST 463 

regulated flight behavior which the present theory demands. Simi- 
larly, in the period immediately before death, a mere 2 to 3 days after 
hatching, the procryptic Lonomia cynira shows similar unregulated 
activity. And, as we would expect, the rate of decay of the inhibitory 
"clock," as measured by the changes in the rocking potential, is ex- 
tremely fast. Overt rocking responses in this species may disappear 
by the end of the second day from hatching. Conversely, in the long- 
lived and aposematic D. {Periylioba) hirda^ the rocking potential 
declines extremely slowly, and strong rocking responses can still be 
observed as much as 10 days after capture. 

However, we still require exact measurements of the characteristics 
of these clocks ; and, as yet, there is nothing known as to the way that 
sexual activity may modify their performance, although there seems 
to be a possibility that it may do so. Certainly this is a very special 
case: even in the closely related Citheroniinae and Saturniinae there 
seems to be no parallel to this clock system. For ourselves the con- 
comitants of the aging process present a familiar picture of failing 
sexual powers, increasing rigidity of outlook, and overall physical 
deterioration; the hemileucines, on the contrary, expire in a final 
blaze of hyperactive glory. Why then, should their aging and death 
so particularly interest us ? 

The answer to this is twofold : First, as has already been mentioned, 
no previous biological material has been able to suggest precise paths 
through which natural selection can act to alter longevities. It has 
generally been assumed that selection, where it is able to act, must of 
necessity tend to lengthen lifespans (Williams, 1957) . The recognition 
that, given an initially restricted lifespan, the mechanisms of aging 
may be of such a kind as to allow selection to modify the rates at which 
they proceed in either direction, may open the way to a more ration- 
ally planned approach to some of the problems of causation. Sec- 
ond, the apparent limitation of the lifespans by a neural clock implies 
that in this case the phenomena of specific lifespan are perhaps con- 
trolled by a unitary leading process. Now this process is certainly 
one which is milikely to have any very general application in the 
animal kingdom. Attempts are still being made to provide general 
theories of senescence; examples such as that of the Hemileucinae 
stress the difficulties attending these oversimplified assaults upon what 
is beyond doubt a complex and specifically variable problem. 

This report has had to cover a good deal of ground in a somewhat 
perfunctory manner, and it may be felt that some of the speculations 
go too far beyond the existing evidence; it is, in fact, less a report 
than a blueprint for future research. The justification for these 
extravagances lies in the way in which the whole course of this work 
illustrates the often fortuitous advantages that may be derived from 
a broad evolutionary study conducted in a tropical environment. 

536608—60— — 31 



464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

What was originally to be a simple survey of the modes of action of 
protective devices and their evolutionary consequences has developed 
in such a way as to bear upon quite distant issues of fundamental 
interest. Laboratory workers sometimes hold that the further ex- 
ploration of comparative studies is not likely to yield much new insight 
into basic problems. This work provides an example of the manner 
in which a comparative field study can suggest the types of biological 
material best suited to the solution of the difficulties posed by special 
areas of research. 

LITERATURE CITED 

Bastock, Margaret, and Blest, A. D. 

1958. An analysis of behaviour sequences in Automeris aurantiaca (Weym.) 
( Lepidoptera ) . Behaviour, vol. 12, pp. 243-284. 
Blest, A. D. 

1956. Protective coloration and animal behaviour. Nature, vol. 178, pp. 

1190-1191. 
1957a. The function of eyespot patterns in the Lepidoptera. Behaviour, 

vol. 11, pp. 209-255. 
1957b. The evolution of protective displays in the Saturnioidea and 

Sphingidae (Lepidoptera). Behaviour, vol. 11, pp. 257-310. 
1958. Interaction between consecutive responses in a hemileucid moth, and 
the evolution of insect communication. Nature, vol. 181, pp. 
1077-1078. 
The evolution, ontogeny and quantitative control of the settling move- 
ments of some New World saturniid moths, with some comments on 
distance communication by honey-bees. Behaviour (in press). [A.] 

The concept of ritualisation. In Modern Problems in the Behaviour 

of Man and Animals, ed. W. H. Thorpe and O. L. Zangwill. Cam- 
bridge Univ. Press (in press). [B.] 
Cott, H. B. 

1940. Adaptive coloration in animals. London. 
DE Ruiter, L. 

1955. Countershading in caterpillars. Arch. N^erl. Zool., vol. 11, pp. 285-341. 
Medawab, p. B. 

1952. An unsolved problem in biology. London. 
Michener, C. D. 

1952. The Saturniidae of the Western Hemisphere. Morphology, phylogeny 
and classification. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 98, pp. 341-501. 
Steche, W. 

1957. Beitrage zur Analyse der Bienentanze. Teil I. Insects Sociaux, vol. 

4, pp. 305-318. 
Tinbergen, N. 

1952. Derived activities ; their causation, biological significance, origin, and 
emancipation during evolution. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 27, pp. 1-32. 

1958. Curious naturalists. Oxford. 
VON Fbisch, K., and Jander, R. 

1957. Uber die Schwanzeltanz der Bienen. Zeitschr. Vergl. Physiol., vol. 
40, pp. 23^263. 
Williams, G. C. 

1957. Pleiotropy, natural selection, and the evolution of senescence. Evolu- 
tion, vol. 11, pp. 198-411. 



Evolution of Knowledge Concerning the 
Roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides^ 



By Benjamin Schwartz^ 

Agricultural Research Service 
U.S. Department of Agriculture 



[With 2 plates] 

No HELMINTH is more familiar to laymen than the large intestinal 
romidworm that bears the name Ascaris lumbricoides. An intimate 
companion of man since time immemorial, and known to Hippocrates 
as the most conspicuous member of man's intestinal worms, A, lum- 
bricoides was baptized in a zoological sense, along wath its host Homo 
sapiens, in 1758 — the date which marks the beginning of binomial 
zoological nomenclature. In recent years the long-sustained associa- 
tion between this nematode parasite and man has been considerably 
weakened, if not severed, wherever sanitary barriers have been inter- 
posed between the two. If the parasite has practically disappeared 
from its human host in urban and other well-sanitated areas, it 
still lives on a lavish scale in the populations of several continents, 
where millions of people are continuously exposed to its attacks at an 
apparently undiminishing rate. 

PREVALENCE OF ASCARIS 

Throughout the Middle Ages — probably also long before that 
time — and extending well into the 19th century, Ascaris was a wide- 
spread parasite of man practically throughout Europe. According 
to Stoll's (25)^ estimate of the extent of the current human helmintliic 
infections throughout the world, Ascaris is of more common occur- 
rence than any of the other worms known to parasitize man. StoU 
concluded that nearly 650 million human beings, about one- fourth of 
the estimated world's population, serve as hosts to this helminth. 
Of those so affected, about 75 percent live in Asia. A little less than 
one-third of the remaining 25 percent live in Europe, and about as 



^ Theobald Smith Memorial Lecture given at a meeting of the New York Society of 
Tropical Medicine, May 21, 1959, in New York City. 
3 Retired December 1, 1959. 
^ Numbers in parentheses indicate references in the bibliography. 

465 



466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

many live in the Western Hemisphere. The others are located mainly 
in Africa. The Ascaris-infected persons in the Americas are largely 
confined to Middle and South America. Those resident in North 
America constitute only about 6.5 percent of the affected persons in 
the Western Hemisphere. 

That Ascaris was frequently seen in Europe in previous centuries, 
despite its concealed habitat in the small intestine, was due to its mi- 
gratory habits, especially during fever, coupled with its conspicuous 
size. Its natural passage at times from the alimentary canal, and its 
expulsion following anthelmintic medication, a practice to which 
physicians had to resort very often in those days, made the worm a 
rather familiar object to doctors and patients alike. The spontaneous 
passage of Ascaris from the body was observed in outbreaks of plague, 
cholera, dysentery, typhoid, typhus, and other febrile diseases. Its 
spontaneous exit from the body in the early stages of typhus was re- 
garded as a more or less grave prognostic sign. 

Ascaris has been observed to pass out not only through the anal 
opening, but also through the mouth and nostrils, and sometimes 
through the ears. In fact, the older medical and parasitological lit- 
erature, and that emanating from tropical countries to this day, con- 
tain harrowing accounts of intestinal obstruction by these worms, 
their occurrence as adults in the peritoneal cavity, the vomiting of 
them by children, and, occasionally, the strangulation of youngstei-s 
by the worms getting into the trachea and bronchi. In the couree 
of a few days or weeks, as many as dozens, or even hundreds, of 
worms were reported to have passed out through various openings, 
while others that remained behind were recovered later after anthel- 
mintic medication. No wonder, therefore, that Ascaris, along with 
other intestinal worms, was regarded during the centuries when there 
were practically no barriers to its unrestricted propagation and trans- 
mission from one human host to another, as the cause of severe illness 
and death. As a matter of fact, all the then known intestinal para- 
sites of man were considered to be incitants of practically all diseases 
for which no other cause was apparent. 

Some of the helminths that parasitize man have a more or less re- 
stricted geographical distribution, conditioned by such factors as 
availability of intermediate hosts, and the hosts' dietary and other 
habits, as well as temperature, humidity, and other environmental 
factors. Others have a less restricted distribution and occur wherever 
their hosts exist. There is no helminth, however, that has a wider 
distribution the world over than A. lumbricoides. Its extracorporeal 
existence apparently encounters no external environment so utterly 
defeating and no climate so extreme as to check altogether its unre- 
lenting push from host to host. 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 467 

Ascaris has been found, sometimes in abundance, in human inhabit- 
ants of cold climates, such as those that prevail in Finland, Greenland, 
Scandinavia, and other northern countries. However, a warm, moist 
climate is ideal for the persistence of its eggs, and affords, moreover, 
optimum conditions for their development. It has long been known 
that the Tropics afford a haven to these worms. The habits of the 
people there and their substandard hygienic practices, coupled with a 
level of sanitation that is incompatible with healthful living, almost 
preclude a complete escape from the invasion of these parasites. A 
century or so ago medical observers were struck by the almost univer- 
sal occurrence of Ascaris in Negroes living in the American Tropics, 
especially in French Guiana. There the population — adults as well 
as children — was practically never free from Ascaris. Literally, sev- 
eral hundred worms were observed to have been voided by children 
in the course of a few days. In autopsies, large numbers of Ascaris 
were found in the intestines, regardless of the disease to which the 
subjects had succumbed. So huge were the masses of worms seen 
during autopsies that they were referred to as "hatfuls of worms." 
That huge accumulations of these helminths did not altogether dis- 
appear in more recent years is evident, for example, from the fact 
that in 1950 there was reported, in an article published in the Trans- 
actions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (28), 
the recovery of more than 2 kilograms of adult ascarids from the in- 
testme of an Arab boy in Iraq, who died from an intestinal occlusion 
caused by an entangled mass of these worms. Reports of massive in- 
fections with these parasites are still seen currently in medical journals 
that emanate from the American and other Tropics, as are also reports 
of rather unusual lesions caused by these worms. 

ALLEGED SPONTANEOUS GENERATION OF ASCARIS 

Before the classic experiments of Redi (19) in the iTth century, 
the spontaneous generation of metazoan organisms, such as snails, 
flies, and other insects, and especially intestinal helminths, was gen- 
erally accepted on the basis of long tradition backed up by no lesser 
authority than that of Aristotle, According to Redi, even William 
Harvey expressed the belief "that all living things derive their origin 
either from semen or eggs, whether this semen have proceeded from 
others of the same kind, or have come by chance or something else." 
Redi's demonstration that flies did not develop from putrescent flesh 
kept in closed containers did not altogether close the issue of spon- 
taneous generation of metazoan organisms. Old beliefs are not easily 
surrendered. The spontaneous generation of intestinal worms was 
long adhered to even by Rudolphi and Bremser, outstanding helmin- 
thologists of the 18th century. Writing in 1857, Kiichenmeister (11) 
referred to the persistence of opinions on spontaneous generation, at 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

least in some quarters in France, as late as 1853. He quotes from a 
then current article the following view on the origin of ascarids: 

In the predisposition to worms, the thicli mucus of the intestine comes under 
our consideration in the first place, as, being acid itself, it cannot purify the 
blood from acids. From a portion of the mucus the worms are produced by 
ffcneratio aequivoca, with the assistance of asthenia and adynamia. The worms 
produced, as the analysis shows, are still more acid than the mucus, from 
which they are produced. Emetics, drastic purgatives, mercury, antimony, and 
arsenic, certainly kill the worms, but weaken the constitution, and thus actually 
rouse the generatio aequivoca into activity, and thus actually cause the forma- 
tion of worms. 

This was perhaps the last stand to uphold the thesis of the spon- 
taneous generation within the body of intestinal helminths — a view 
that had already crumbled for the most part before the scientific 
onslaught initiated by Kedi almost two centuries earlier. It was 
Redi who discovered sex and eggs in Ascaris and made observations 
on the reproductive organs of this worm. 

RESISTANCE OF ASCARIS EGGS 

The remarkable adaptability of Ascaris to external conditions of all 
kinds is due in a large measure to the "tougliness" of its eggs — the 
connecting link between the generations of worms. So great, in fact, 
is the impermeability of the %gg shells, that "their development is 
not arrested in spirits of wine, chromic acid, or oil of turpentine" 
according to Heller (9) who mvestigated the embryonation of the 
cat ascarid nearly a century ago. In the laboratory Ascaris eggs 
are routinely cultured in a 2-percent solution of formalin, or in solu- 
tions of potassium bichromate, and they are said to have been cultured 
successfully in solutions of hydrochloric, sulfuric, nitric, and acetic 
acids, in strengths up to 50 percent, and in other solutions known 
to be highly deleterious to living matter. 

Parallel to the resistance of the eggs to inimical environmental 
influence is the long persistence of the embryos within the egg shells. 
A number of investigators have reported eggs still containing living 
embryos after months, or even after years, of cultivation. Epstein 
(3), in Prague, infected children with eggs that had been kept in 
culture for a year. Davaine (1, 2), in France, in the second half of 
the 19th centuiy, carried out his classic experiments with rats to 
which he fed Ascaris eggs that still contained viable embryos that 
hatched in these rodents, despite the fact that the eggs had been 
maintained in culture for 5 years. 

At temperatures near freezing the development of the eggs does 
not progress. If development already has begun, it comes to a stand- 
still at a temperature a few degrees above freezing, only to be resumed, 
however, when the temperature rises. The eggs are resistant, more- 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 469 

over, to ordinary drying because the chitinous layer which envelops 
the shells affords additional protection against desiccation. 

DEVELOPMENT OF ASCARIS EGG 

Let us now turn our attention to the development of the micro- 
scopic Ascaris egg — the starting point in the long and tortuous climb 
that constitutes the life cycle of this helminth. After escaping 
through the uterine opening of the female worm in the host's intes- 
tine, and becoming incorporated in the intestinal contents, the egg 
is eliminated to the outside with the feces. There it is ready, so to 
speak, to face the perils of a free-living existence. Under favorable 
environmental conditions (a temperature of about 80° to 85° F., free 
access of air, and some moisture), it begins to undergo cleavage (pi. 
1, fig. 1), and in the course of 2 to 3 weeks, a vermiform embryo (pi. 
1, fig. 2), performing more or less constant gliding movements 
within the shell, especially when stimulated by heat, may be readily 
observed even under the low power of a microscope. 

Up to about the middle of the 19th century there was no infor- 
mation on the development of the Ascaris egg, or on the mode of its 
transmission from one host to another. According to the best avail- 
able sources, Gros (8), in 1849, working in Moscow, recorded obser- 
vations on the development of A. lumbricoides eggs, which he had 
maintained in an incubator at a temperature of 15° to 16° C from 
the 4th of August to the 2d of December. Three years earlier 
Richter (20) determined that Ascaris eggs remained alive in water 
for a long time and observed, moreover, that those so maintained for 
11 months contained embryos. In 1853 Verloren (26) reared the 
eggs of the cat ascarid to the embryonated stage in only 15 days, 
and Heller (9) observed that the embryo casts its sheath while still 
within the shell. It was not until 1857, however, that Leuckart (12), 
at that time midoubtedly the most prominent of all helmintholo- 
gists, made observations on the development of A. luiiibricoides eggs — 
observations which have been sustained ever since. He determined 
that the speed of development varied considerably and was condi- 
tioned principally by the temperature of the environment. During 
the wmter montlis there was little evidence of development, but dur- 
ing the warm summer embryogeny was speeded up to such a point 
that the embryo was already formed in about two weeks. He stated 
also that drying arrested development but the addition of a little 
water reactivated embryonation. 

MECHANISM OF INFECTION 

A logical sequence to the determination of the course of develop- 
ment of the Ascaris egg was to study its mode of infection. The 



470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

early attempts in this direction by Richter, Kiichenmeister, Leuckart, 
and others yielded indecisive, or negative, results. Having failed 
to infect a rabbit and a dog after the feeding of the embryonated 
eggs, Leuckart carried out additional experiments with pigs, horses, 
and dogs to which he administered the eggs of their respective 
ascarids. He even swallowed the eggs of A. lumhrlcoides repeatedly 
without experiencing symptoms or becoming a host to the worms. 
Leuckart's tests with animals as well as those carried out by several 
of his contemporaries yielded almost consistently negative results. 

The most significant of the early experiments on the mode of trans- 
mission of A. lumbricoides was carried out, at Leuckart's (12) sug- 
gestion, by Mosler in 1860. Having failed on 12 different occasions 
to infect himself or others after the ingestion of the eggs, Mosler 
experimented on several children. They were given gradually in- 
creasing doses of eggs without, however, exhibiting clinical symp- 
toms, except in one or two cases, in which the children became sick 
with pulmonary symptoms accompanied by fever. In the light of 
our present knowledge of the course of infection and early migra- 
tion of Ascaris larvae, these symptoms were certainly suggestive of 
pulmonary ascariasis. 

Another experimental infection was reported by Grassi (7) in a 
German publication issued in 1888. Briefly, in July of 1879, while 
he was professor of anatomy at Catania, Sicily, he swallowed several 
hundred Ascaris eggs containing living and "ripe" embryos. The 
eggs had been collected 9 months earlier from the intestine of a human 
cadaver, and cultured during the intervening period in feces kept 
moist by the addition, from time to time, of several drops of water. 
Tliirty-three days later he observed ascarid eggs m his feces, and con- 
tinued to find these eggs consistently for a long time thereafter. As re- 
ported by Grassi (6), his pupil, Calandruccio, also swallowed re- 
peatedly embryonated Ascaris eggs but failed to become infected. 
Calandruccio succeeded, however, in infecting a 7-year-old boy whom 
he freed by anthelmintic medication of the ascarids he already har- 
bored. After assuring himself, by repeated examination of the boy's 
feces during a period of several weeks, that he no longer passed eggs, 
he gave the lad a capsule containing more than 150 embryonated eggs. 
For the ensuing 20 days all fecal examinations made on this subject 
yielded negative results. These examinations were suspended until 
the 60th day after the inoculum had been given. On that day eggs 
were discovered in the boy's feces. About a month later, the boy, who 
had shown no symptoms in the meantime, passed spontaneously 143 
ascarids measuring from 18 to 23 cm. long. 

The experiment carried out by Grassi is open to question because 
the 33-day period that intervened between the date of infection and the 
first appearance of eggs in the feces is short by at least 2 weeks or more 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Schwartz 



PLATE 1 




.<^^ 



w 



*^ 



w 




w 



_ ^ 



w 



Smithsonian Report. 1 959— Schwartz 



PLATE 2 




o 




ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 471 

for the development of A. lumhricoides to a state of fertile maturity. 
According to several investigators, the minimum period of the pig 
strain is 49 days, and of the limnan strain even longer. The results 
of Calandruccio's experiment on the 7-year-old boy may be accepted 
as valid because the interval between infection and the discovery of 
eggs in the feces was 60 days, Aloreover, the worms that the boy 
passed about 3 months after experimental infection were of a size 
corresponding to worms of that age, according to observations I made 
on the growth rate of Ascaris in the pig. 

The successful results reported by Grassi found strong support in 
Lutz's (15) observations in Brazil on the epidemiology of human as- 
cariasis. Lutz concluded from a study of the environment in which 
Ascaris-infected persons lived that this parasitic infection was in the 
main soilborne, and not, as others before him had supposed, water- 
borne or foodborne. Moreover, Lutz (16) carried out an experiment 
with a human volunteer, aged 32. This individual had been free of 
Ascaris for a period of 20 years, and lived in surroundings where he 
could not possibly acquire this parasite. The volmiteer ingested in a 
period of 23 days small numbers of eggs on eight different occasions. 
He experienced rather severe abdominal pain, and also developed a 
bronchitis which probably was associated with the invasion of the 
lungs by Ascaris larvae — a link in the chain which constitutes that de- 
velopmental cycle of the wonn that had not yet been discovered at that 
time. He was given anthelmintic medication 28 days after the first 
ingestion of eggs, and passed a total of 35 worms, measuring from 5.5 
to 13 mm. in length. The worms were identified as Ascaris lumbri- 
coides not only by Lutz but also by Leuckart, to whom they were sent. 

Epstein's experiment, in 1892, with three children, 41/2 to 6 years 
old, was more convincing than any of the previous attempts to bring 
about an experimental infection with Ascaris. Although the practice 
of subjecting children to medical experiments must be severely con- 
demned, Epstein, by meticulous planning and painstaking observa- 
tions, demonstrated beyond doubt a direct development of Ascaris 
from the embryonated ^gg to the adult, egg-laying worm in 10 to 12 
weeks. 

It is evident from the foregoing account that early in the last 
decade of the 19th century the basically important facts as regards 
the mode of transmission of A. lumbricoides had been ascertained. 
It must not be supposed, however, that all investigators accepted the 
idea of a direct development of the worms in one host up to the 
stage of egg-laying maturity. At fii*st, Leuckart came to the con- 
clusion on the basis of repeated failures by himself and others to 
infect man, the horse, the pig, the dog, and other animals with their 
own or related species of ascarid, that these worms apparently had 

536608—60 32 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

an indirect life cycle. He assumed that some terrestrial inverte- 
brate — an insect, slug, snail, or other creature, not even excluding 
a mammal — harbored the intermediate stage which, lie supposed, 
developed in it from the embryonated eggs it had swallowed, and that 
man became infected by accidentally eating with a salad, for instance, 
the alleged intermediate host. Von Linstow (14) actually pointed the 
finger of suspicion at myriapods that were abundant in vegetable 
gardens in Germany, and he assumed that the accidental ingestion 
of these invertebrates, especially by children, could accomit for the 
acquisition of the worms. Leuckart (13) finally receded from the 
position that A. lunibricoides was a heteroxenous nematode, partly 
because he failed, despite repeated efforts, to find an intermediate 
host, but also because he was convmced that the epidemiological and 
experimental evidence marshaled by Lutz (15) did not support his 
assumption of an indirect life cycle. 

A new method of approach to the experimental study of the mode 
of infection of A. lumbricoides was introduced by Davaine (1, 2) by 
using a rat as a test host. Twelve hours after administering in milk 
a large number of embryonated Ascaris eggs' to a rat, this animal was 
destroyed and its digestive tract slit open and carefully examined. 
Although the eggs so administered had been kept in water for a 
period of 5 years, they were still alive. At autopsy of the rat, un- 
hatched eggs were still present in its stomach and duodenum. In the 
jejmium, and especially in the ileum, Davaine found living larvae 
that had extricated themselves from the Qgg shells, and some that 
were in the process of so domg through a perforation at one of its 
poles. The empty shells were ruptured but not digested. In experi- 
ments with another rat, Davaine observed living larvae that had 
passed out with the feces. From these experiments he inferred that 
Ascaris eggs probably would hatch in the human intestine, and the 
liberated larvae would grow to maturity there, without the interven- 
tion of an intermediate host postulated by Leuckart and von Linstow. 

NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF UFE CYCLE 

And so matters stood until 1916. In that year, Capt. F. H. Stewart 
(23, 24) of the Medical Corps of the British Army, was stationed in 
Hong Kong, where Ascaris was veiy common in children and in pigs. 
Stewart published in the July 1, 1916, issue of the British Medical 
Journal an account of a series of remarkable experiments that gave 
an insight into the developmental cycle of A. lumbricoides that was far 
different from that anyone had ever suspected. In fact, his experi- 
ments, as subsequent events showed, made it possible, for the first 
time, to place a correct interpretation on the results of Mosler's ex- 
periments with one or two children who became ill with pulmonary 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LTJMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 473 

symptoms following inoculation with Ascaris eggs, and a similar ex- 
periment by Liitz (16) in Brazil. 

Having failed in 1915 to infect two yomig pigs with the embryo- 
nated eggs of the human and swine Ascaris, Stewart turned his 
attention in 1916 to Davaine's approach to the solution of the Ascaris 
life history, by experimenting with rats and mice. He inoculated 
rats, using in succession the eggs derived from the human and pig 
hosts on the same test animals. Less than 24 hours later live larvae 
were found in the feces of the rats, and continued to appear there 
for some days. The larvae moved in a languid manner, and were stiU 
alive 3 days later, after having been kept at a temperature of 25° to 
30° C. On autopsy ing one of the rats which died 6 days after the 
first inoculation, while the companion rats involved in this experiment 
were showing symptoms of pneumonia, Stewart discovered that the 
larvae evidently had made their way to the liA^er and lungs, but were 
not present in the alimentary canal, spleen, or kidneys. Another rat, 
killed 10 days after the first inoculation, contained many larvae in the 
lungs, but none in any of the other organs examined. One of the 
surviving rats which had completely recovered 12 days after exposure 
was autopsied 4 days later. The host had freed itself entirely of 
larvae, so far as could be determined by the examination of the various 
organs in the abdominal and thoracic cavities. Stewart repeated these 
experiments with other rats and a mouse and obtained similar results. 
He concluded, therefore, that in the intestine of rats and mice only a 
few of the larvae that escaped from the egg shells were eliminated to 
the outside, but that most of them were carried to the liver (pi. 2, fig. 
1) and lungs (pi. 2, fig. 2) by the circulation, became localized in the 
respiratory tract for a time, and produced symptoms of pneumonia. 
Curiously enough, Stewart was inclined at first to the view that the 
larvae which left the host shortly after they had escaped from the 
egg shells, rather than those that invaded the tissues, might be the 
starting point of hmnan infections by being transferred to the mouth 
with food or water that had become contaminated with the feces of 
infected rats or mice. 

After confirming and extending his early experiments, Stewart 
traced the migratory path of the larvae through the bloodstream from 
the intestine to the liver and thence to the Imigs. He determined 
that by upward migration in the respiratory tract, the larvae reached 
the trachea, pharynx, and buccal cavity, and were then swallowed for 
the second time. Now they migrated downward through the esopha- 
gus to the stomach and intestines, and tended to accumulate in the 
cecum. They finally passed out with the feces 10 or 12 days after 
inoculation. 

Stewart next turned his attention from experiments with rodents 
to experiments with pigs. He objected to experimenting with human 



474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

beings, and wondered why those before him had neglected the obvious 
pig-Ascaris rehitionship as an experimental tool. By using both the 
human and porcine strains of Ascaris, he inoculated pigs and ascer- 
tained that the hepatic-pulmonary developmental cycle in this host 
was no different from tJiat in rodents. Contrary to his expectations, 
he failed to observe development of Ascaris in the pig's intestme to 
any significant extent. Stewart was unable to account for the exit 
of the larval worms of the pig Ascaris from its accustomed host only 
a few days after completing the journey through the liver and lungs — 
a behavior not essentially different from that he had seen in rodents. 
He thought of the possibility that either Ascaris might undergo a 
direct development in the intestine, once it had returned there after 
completing the hepatic-pulmonary cycle, or that the rat and mouse 
might be intermediate hosts. 

EXPERIMENTAL DEMONSTRATION OF DEVELOPMENTAL CYCLE IN ANIMALS 

Ransom and Foster (18), whose investigations on the life cycle of 
Ascaris followed on the heels of Stewart's discoveries in 1916, rejected 
the view that rats and mice were involved in any way in the de- 
velopmental cycle of the pig or human Ascaris. They regarded the 
hepatic-pulmonary migratory cycle as part of the normal develop- 
mental pattern of the worm in a one-host system, even though they 
themselves had had no better success than did Stewart in demon- 
strating a direct development of the helminth in the pig. As a matter 
of fact, the first entirely convincing experimental proof of a direct 
development of the pig Ascaris was supplied by Ransom and Foster 
in experiments with sheep and goats, two rather unusual hosts for this 
parasite. In an autopsy on a kid 28 days after the first, and 11 days 
after the second inoculation with the swine Ascaris eggs, they found 
numerous larvae in the lungs, trachea, pharynx, esophagus, rumen, 
and abomasum, and larger and more numerous worms in the intestine. 
The worms in the intestine, almost a centimeter long, had developed 
presumably, from the first feeding, 4 weeks earlier, whereas the mi- 
grating larvae had apparently developed from eggs of the second 
feeding, about 2i/2 weeks later. The localization of the larvae in the 
organs aforementioned showed very clearly the path they had trav- 
ersed before reaching the animal's intestine. From a lamb autopsied 
about Sy2 months after a similar inoculation with pig Ascaris eggs, 
they recovered from the intestine 50 partially grown worms, 10 to 15 
cm. long. Considering the fact that sheep are rarely affected by the 
swine Ascaris, and that only one worm or a few at most, usually 
stunted in growth, have been observed in these aberrant hosts, the 
presence of 50 worms in a lamb that had been experimentally inocu- 
lated with the eggs may be considered conclusive proof of a direct 
development from the egg to a state approaching maturity. 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 475 

MIGRATION OF ASCARIS LARVAE IN MAN 

The most conclusive proof of the migration of Ascaris larvae in the 
human host was furnished by Koino (10) in Japan in 1922. Koino 
was familiar with Stewart's investigations and with those of one of 
his own countrymen, Yoshida (27), who, in 1919, had confirmed 
Stewart's work on the migration of Ascaris larvae in rodents, and in- 
fected himself by swallowing some of these larvae that had gotten 
as far as the lungs. After experimenting with rats and mice, Koino 
became interested in determining whether the symptomatology as- 
sociated with the hepatic-pulmonary migration of Ascaris larvae in 
man Avould be similar to that which he had seen in rodents. He 
therefore subjected himself, and his younger brother, aged 21, to an 
experimental inoculation with Ascaris eggs. It was a fortunate coin- 
cidence that he fed the embryonated eggs of the pig Ascaris to his 
brother, and that he swallowed the eggs of the human Ascaris. The 
results he obtained supplied much-needed information on the biologi- 
cal difl'erence of the worms from the two hosts. 

Koino inoculated his brother with 500 pig Ascaris eggs. This was 
followed by a slight rise in his body temperature by the third day; 
from then to the eighth day his brother's temperature was subnormal 
in the morning and normal or somewhat elevated in the evening. By 
the ninth day it had risen to 39° C. (102° F.) ; the fever continued 
during the next 3 days and then the temperature came down to nor- 
mal. Along with the fever the patient developed a cough, which 
gradually increased in severity, and he brought up a watery, non- 
sanguineous mucus. He also experienced pains in the chest and had 
rales all over the chest. Eight days after their onset, the symptoms 
disappeared and the patient recovered. No evidence of liver involve- 
ment was discovered by physical examination. No larvae were found 
in his sputum. 

Koino himself swallowed 2,000 human Ascaris eggs in order, as he 
stated, to ascertain whether the symptoms observed in his brother 
were actually caused by the migration of the parasites. Like his 
brother, Koino developed a slight fever on the third day and reached 
a temperature of 39.8° C. (103.6° F.) the next day. By the ninth day 
after the onset of fever his temperature had returned to normal but 
had attained 40.2° C. (105.3° F.) before it began to subside. Along 
with the fever he had chills, a severe headache, and increased respira- 
tion and pulse rates, and on the fifth and sixth days after the onset 
of symptoms he experienced very severe respiratory difficulty, and 
his face became cyanotic. The number of respirations reached 56 
to 58 per minute, then began to decrease along with the lowering of 
the temperature. By the 9th day the respiration rate was down to 
24 per minute, and by the 16th day it was normal. His pulse rate 



476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

reached 90 to 120 per minute, and from the fifth to the sixth days it 
was very weak and thready. The cough, which had appeared, in- 
creased with the rise in temperature, but subsided on the 11th day after 
the onset of symptoms. His sputum increased in quantity, and on 
the fifth and sixth days it was tinged with blood. Perhaps one of 
the most interesting and biologically important findings was his 
discovery of Ascaris larvae in his sputum, despite the fact that he was 
seriously ill at the time the larvae became abundant there. The larvae 
first appeared on the third day and their number increased very 
sharply by the fifth day, when he counted 178 worms in 155 cc. of 
sputum. At this time his condition became so serious that he had to 
interrupt the collection of sputum for 2 days. By the 8th day the 
number of larvae in the sputum decreased to 16 and continued to 
decrease until none was found by the 11th day. The total number 
of larvae that he was able to count in the sputum was 212. Unlike 
what he observed in his brother, his liver was palpable the fourth 
day. It retained its enlarged size until the 10th day, and 2 days 
later it was scarcely palpable. 

Fifty days after experimental inoculation, each of these human 
volunteers received an anthelmintic. Koino's brother, who had been 
inoculated with pig Ascaris eggs, eliminated no worms following this 
medication. Koino himself passed 667 worms, 3 to 8 cm. long. The 
experimenter concluded that both the human and pigs strains of 
Ascaris migrate after hatching, reach the lungs, and produce 
symptoms of pneumonia. 

It is evident from the foregoing accomit that the pulmonary and 
other symptoms observed by Koino were due to the invasion of the 
liver and lungs by the migrating larvae. The onset of the symptoms, 
the time when they attained a high degree of severity, and the time 
of their remission are in harmony with the known facts regarding 
the invasion of and accumulation of larvae in the liver and lungs, and 
their exit from the respiratory tract in small mammals used in labora- 
tory experiments, in pigs, and in other mammals. The fact that 
Koino's brother, unlike Koino himself, passed no worms following 
anthelmintic medication, despite the fact that the eggs he ingested 
evidently hatched and the larvae followed their usual migratory path 
in his body, is in harmony with the knowledge that the hepatic-pul- 
monary development of the human and pig Ascaris and of related 
species involves no host specificity but can take place in almost any 
mammal. 

BIOLOGICAL DIFFERENTIATION OF HUMAN AND PIG ASCARIS 

Koino's experiments afford evidence in favor of the view that the 
human and pig Ascaris are biologically distinct, despite the fact that 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LTJMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 477 

tlie two strains show no constant morphological differences. The 
distinction of the two strains on the basis of their host relationship has 
since been supported by the outcome of other experiments, especially 
those involving the feeding to pigs of the embryonated eggs of A. 
lumhricoldes, and by epidemiological studies in the American Tropics 
and elsewhere. For instance, Payne, Ackert, and Hartman (17) were 
unable in 1925 to find a correlation between the incidence of Ascaris 
in the pig and man in Trinidad. Despite the close contacts between 
these two hosts and the opportunities for the acquisition of the human 
Ascaris by pigs, the incidence in these domestic animals was only 
about one-seventh of that in man. I made similar observations (21, 
22) 3 years earlier in the Philippines. It should be borne in mind, 
however, that pig Ascaris eggs usually are abundant on the premises 
where these host animals are raised and over which they roam. These 
eggs are, therefore, a potential human health hazard, especially to 
children, even though they may not be able to grow up to maturity 
in the intestines of the human host. 

The available evidence from the numerous experiments that have 
been performed since those that have just been reviewed has estab- 
lished conclusively the fact that A. lumbricoides develops in man 
direct from the embryonated &gg to the adult worm. The counter- 
part of this helminth in the pig, to which the name Ascaris suum has 
been applied for convenience, if for no other reason, also has been 
shown to have an identical direct development in the pig. Moreover, 
the evidence at hand supports, on the whole, Koino's conclusion that 
the human intestine is an unsuitable habitat for the development of 
the pig Ascaris to maturity or to a stage approaching maturity. The 
converse also is true, because the available experimental data indicate 
that the pig's intestine is an unsuitable habitat for the development 
of the human Ascaris. Moreover, the epidemiological evidence col- 
lected in the United States, in the American Tropics, and elsewhere 
certainly does not support, as previously stated, the idea of a transfer 
of the human or porcine strain of Ascaris to the heterologous host, 
except to the extent that the larvae of either strain can undergo the 
hepatic-pulmonary migrations in either host. 

It is perhaps idle even to speculate on whether man acquired As- 
caris from the pig, or vice versa. Members of the zoological family 
Ascaridae parasitize mammals, such as cattle, horses, pigs, dogs, cats, 
and species of wild carnivores. Ascaris is not known to have a special 
attachment to primates, man's nearest zoological relatives. Man's 
helminth parasites are, by and large, closely related to, and in some 
cases identical with, those of the animals he domesticated, and of 
those that have invaded his home as unbidden guests. It is probably 
more logical to assume, therefore, that Ascaris was donated to man by 
the pig than to accept the converse of this proposition. 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

DISCUSSION 

From the foregoing account it is clear that the knowledge we have 
concerning A. lumbricoides has been accumulated slowly and patiently 
over a period perhaps as long as the history of man's civilization. If 
little was added in 2,000 yeai^ or more to what was already known to 
Hippocrates about 400 B.C. or earlier, and to Aristotle several dec- 
ades later, it was because of the veil of superstition and ignorance 
that hung over men's minds throughout the Middle Ages. The clouds 
that dimmed the spirit of inquiry into living phenomena were some- 
what lifted by the pioneering discoveries of Redi in the 17th century 
on the propagation of insects. It took almost two additional cen- 
turies, however, before medical and other biological investigators 
began to approach experimentally the problem of the mode and 
course of infection with this parasite. By this approach they grad- 
ually brought to light one fact after another, sometimes in rapid suc- 
cession, so that toward the middle of the 19th century, and during the 
ensuing two or three decades, much was discovered about how Ascaris 
spreads from one host to another. It remained for the researches 
that were carried out during the second, third, and fourth decades of 
this century to bring to light the unexpected mechanism of infection 
with a parasite that has been so intimately associated with man 
throughout the ages, and still is widespread practically the world over. 

In attempts to unravel the life cycle of Ascaris, a number of in- 
vestigators resorted to experimental inoculation of human beings, in- 
cluding children. Subjecting children to experimental inoculation 
with worms is a hazardous venture under any circumstances, and 
especially when Ascaris eggs constitute the inoculum. In the experi- 
ments carried out by Mosler and Lutz, pulmonary and other symp- 
toms were observed. Aside, however, from the potential danger 
involved in medical experiments with human beings, the practice of 
using children as test animals cannot under any circumstances be 
justified, even though the investigators who resorted to this practice 
believed, in the light of knowledge then available, that little, if any, 
risk was involved in inoculating youngsters with a helminth that so 
many of them would, sooner or later, acquire anyway. It should not 
be forgotten, however, that not all the investigators who helped to 
piece together the life cycle of this parasite used only others as test 
hosts. Leuckart, Grassi, Calandruccio, Yoshida, Koino, and other ex- 
perimenters did not hesitate to expose themselves to experimental in- 
fection with A. lurribricoides — an exposure that in the case of Koino, 
at any rate, was fraught with considerable danger to his health. 

The life history of Ascaris resembles a two-host system that ap- 
parently has become compressed into a single host. The possible 
biological significance of the early migratory cycle of the larvae, which 



ROXINDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 479 

precedes their later development in the small intestine, has given 
rise to considerable speculation. It is certain that there is much 
in the developmental history of this helminth that, on the surface, 
at least, appears to some investigators seemingly superfluous and 
difficult to explain. The exit of the larvae from, and their subsequent 
return to, the intestine, partly by passive movement with the blood- 
stream, and partly by their independent movements, have been re- 
garded by some helminthologists, especially by Fiillebom (4, 5), as 
a probable recapitulation of the evolutionary history of these worms. 
Fortunately, however, the discoveries pertaining to the life cycle of 
Ascaris have opened up, in addition to these interesting speculations, 
new vistas so far as concerns the immunology of this worm infec- 
tion. Possibly one of these is the host's vigorous defense reaction 
following the penetration of the larvae into abdominal and thoracic 
organs. This defense reaction might be responsible for the difficulties 
that so many investigators have experienced in attempting to rear 
these helminths from the embryonated egg to the adult worm in the 
natural hosts. Evidently, not all the problems relating to Ascaris 
infection have been entirely solved. What has been uncovered in 
recent years has opened the door a little wider, so as to permit 
further exploration of what still remains undisclosed. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Davaink, C. 

1859. Reeherches sur le dSveloppement et la propagation du trichoc^phale 
de I'homme et de I'ascaride lombricoide. Journ. Physiol. Homme, 
Paris, vol. 2, pp. 295-200. April. 

2. . 

1863. Nouvelles reeherches sur le developpement et la propagation de 
I'ascaride lombricoide et du trichoc^phale de I'homme. Compt. 
Rend. Soc. Biol., Paris (1862), ser. 3, vol. 4, Mem., pp. 261-265. 

3. Epstein, Alois. 

1892. Ueber die Uebertragung des menschlichen Spulwurms (Ascaris lum- 
bricoides). Verb. Versam. Ges. Kind. Deutsch. Naturf. u. Aertze, 
Wiesbaden (1891), vol. 9, pp. 1-16. 

4. FCXLEBBOBN, F. 

1922. Ueber den Infektionsweg bei Ascaris. Klin. Wochenschr., vol. 1, No. 
20, pp. 984-988. 



1927. Ueber das Verhalten der Larven von Strongyloides stercoralis, 
Hakenwiirmem und Ascaris lumbricoides im Korper des Wirtes 
und ein Versuch, es biologisch zu deuten. Beihefte 2, Arch. 
Schiffs.- u. Tropen-Hyg., vol. 31, pp. 151-202. 

6. Gbassi, G. 

1887. Trichocephalus und Ascaris-Entwicklung. Preliminamote. 

Centralbl. Bakt. u. Parasit., Jena, vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 131-132. 

7. . 

1888. Weiteres zur Frage der Ascaris-Entwicklung. Centralbl. Bakt. u. 

Parasit., Jena, vol. 3, No. 24, pp. 748-749. 



480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

8. Geos, G. 

1849. Fragments d'helminthologie et de physiologie microscopique. Bull. 
Soc. Imp. Nat. Moscou, vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 549-573. 

9. Heller, Arnold. 

1872. Ueber Ascaris lumbricoides. Sitzungsb. Phys.-Med. Soc. Erlang. 
(1871-1872), vol. 4, pp. 71-73. 

10. KoiNO, S. 

1922. Experimental infections in human body witli ascarides. Japan 
Med. World, vol. 2, No. 11, pp. 317-320. 

11. KiJCHENMEISTER, F. 

1857. On animal and vegetable parasites of the human body, a manual of 
their natural history, diagnosis, and treatment. Vol. 1, 452 pp. 
London. 

12. Leuckaet, Rudolf. 

1876. Die menschlichen Parasiten und die von ihnen herriihrenden Krank- 
heiten. Vol. 2, 882 pp. Leipzig. 

13. . 

1887. Die Uebergangsweise der Ascaris lumhricoides und der Taenia ellip- 
tica. Centralbl. Bakt. u. Parasit., Jena, vol. 2, No. 24, pp. 718-722. 

14. VON Lin STOW, Otto. 

1886. Ueber den Zwischenwirth von Ascaris himbricoides L. Zool. Anz., 

Leipzig (231), vol. 9, No. 30, pp. 525-528. 

15. LuTz, Adolph. 

1887. Zur Frage der Invasion von Taenia elliptica und Ascaris lumbricoides. 

Centralbl. Bakt. u. Parasit., Jena, vol. 2, No. 24, pp. 713-718. 

16. 

1888. Zur Frage der Uebertragung des menschlichen Spulwurmes. Cen- 

tralbl. Bakt. u. Parasit, Jena, vol. 3, No. 14, pp. 425-428. 

17. Patne, Florence K. ; Ackert, James E. ; and Hartman, Ernest. 

1925. The question of the human and pig Ascaris. Amer. Journ. Hyg., 
vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 90-101. 

18. Ransom, B. H., and Foster, W. D. 

1920. Observations on the life history of Ascaris lumbricoides. Bull. 817, 
U.S. Dept. Agr., 47 pp. 

19. Redi, Francesco. 

1688. Experiments on the generation of insects. (Trans, from Italian 
ed. of 1688 by Mab Bigelow, 1909. Chicago. ) 

20. RiCHTER, Hermann E. 

1846. Beobachtungen iiber die Eier der Eingeweidewiirmer. Allg. Deutsche 
Naturh. Zeitung, vol. 1, pp. 1-3. Dresden and Leipzig. 

21. Schwartz, Benjamin. 

1922. Ascarid infestations of domestic animals in the Philippine Islands. 
Philippine Agr. Rev., vol. 51, No. 3, 3d Quart., pp. 246-251. 

22. Schwartz, Benjamin, and Tubangui, Marcos A. 

1922. The prevalence of hookworm and other intestinal nematodes in 
adult Filipinos. Journ. Parasitol., vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 83-92. 

23. Stewart, F. H. 

1916. On the life history of Ascaris lumbricoides. British Med. Journ., 
London (2918) , vol. 2, pp. 753-754. 

24. 

1918. On the life history of Ascaris lumbricoides L. Parasitology, vol. 10, 
No. 2, pp. 197-205. 

25. Stoll, Norman R. 

1947. This wormy world. Journ. Parasitol., vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 1-18. 



ROUNDWORM ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES — SCHWARTZ 481 

26. Veeloken, Maeg, Corn, Eljeben. 

1854. Ascaris marginata. Anteeken Utrecht. Genootsch. Sect. Nat. en 
Geneesk., pp. 41-47. 

27. TosHiDA, Sadao. 

1919. On the development of Ascaris lumdricoides L. Journ. Parasitol., 
vol. 5, pp. 105-115. 

28. Zahawi, Showket el, and Ovanessian, Gaknik. 

1950. A tumour mass due to Ascaris larvae. Trans. Roy. Soc. Trop. Med. 
and Hyg., vol. 44, No. 2, pp. 229-230. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25, D.C. 



The Protection of Fauna in the U.S.S.R/ 



By G. P. Dementiev 
Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R. 

Translated by John Covert Boyd 3d ' 



The protection of nature in the U.S.S.R., and particularly of the 
fauna, is a problem as vast as it is complicated. The solution of this 
problem requires extensive and varied measures. This article will 
deal only with those affecting vertebrates. In our country, with its 
immense area and abundant and varied natural resources (there are 
300 species of mammals, 700 of birds, 161 of reptiles and amphibians, 
and 1,500 of fishes and cyclostomata) , interest in the fauna dates 
back to ancient times. It was hunting that occupied the attention of 
our ancestors. This is quite understandable, for in the Middle Ages 
hunting played an important part of the daily life. This does not 
mean that today hunting as a sport and an industry, as a way of com- 
ing to understand nature, has lost its value. 

In the principality of Kiev, and later in the Grand Duchy of Mus- 
covy in old Russia, the exploitation and, thus, the protection of the 
fauna formed a branch of governmental administration. This admin- 
istrative activity developed with the Russian penetration into Siberia 
in the 16th, I7th, and 18th centuries. The establishment of a govern- 
ment monopoly on fur trapping and fur trading required measures 
guaranteeing to a certain point the protection of fur-bearing animals. 

The oldest documents pertaining to the control of hunting date 
from the 11th century; it is the collection of laws known as the "Rus- 
skaya Pravda." We must realize that in Russia hmiting has never 
been reserved as an entertainment or a privilege for the nobility or 



1 Reprinted by permission from Atlantic Naturalist, vol. 14, No. 1, January-March 1959. 

* Translator's note : This is a free translation of a talk given by Professor Dementiev at 
the Sixth Technical Meeting of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and 
Natural Resources at Edinburgh, Scotland, on June 26, 1956. It was published In French 
In the Proceedings and Papers of the meeting, London, 1957. Professor Dementiev Is a 
leading Soviet ornithologist and conservationist, professor at the University of Moscow, 
chairman of the Commission for the Protection of Nature of the Academy of Sciences of 
the U.S.S.R., and a corresponding fellow of the American Ornithologists' Union. 

I am indebted to Professor Dementiev and to the International Union for the Conserva- 
tion of Nature and Natural Resources for their consent to this presentation of the article. 

483 



484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

for the state. But in another sense, the state has always been greatly 
interested in hunting and trapping and their produce. The control 
of the capture of birds for falconry (these birds, especially gyrfalcons, 
were also, as in Iceland, the objects of diplomatic negotiations) and the 
strict control of fur trapping in Siberia (called "Yassak," meaning 
"a tribute paid in furs") are examples of this interest. All these 
measures have contributed toward regulations of a conservationist 
nature and toward limitations on hunting. It was in this manner 
that the first natural reserves were organized in Russia, such as the 
Seven Isles, which lie to the north of the Murmansk coast. This 
reserve was founded in the I7th century in order to protect the eyries 
of gyrfalcons. Mention should also be made of the forest sanctuary 
of Bialovez, which dates from the 16th century. The number of 
Siberian furs that had to be furnished to Moscow was also controlled. 
On the frontiers of the Grand Duchy of Muscovy in the 16th century 
there were organized forest preserves called "Zasseki" (forests used 
for defensive purposes). Under Tsar Peter the Great, oak forests 
in European Russia were also protected, except against the needs of 
Russian naval forces. The protection of the European bison — already 
in practice because of the hunting interests of the Grand Dukes of 
Lithuania — was established as early as 1541. It was in the 18th 
century that many "Zakazniki," reserves for the protection of game 
animals, both mammals and birds, were organized. The trapping of 
beavers was strictly controlled and was forbidden in northern Russia 
by the 18th century. In the same century no hunting was allowed 
in the districts of St. Petersburg and Moscow (to the advantage of 
the hunting of the Imperial Court, though their sport was erratic 
and rather infrequent) . 

From this we may conclude that the history of the protection of 
game dates far back. We have only given fragments here. It is 
necessary to add that in the areas where hunting was largely carried 
on by the natives (Siberia, Turkestan), these people had always given 
attention to the conservation of game. These animals served not only 
as the objects of sport, but as a means of subsistence. In these regions 
many localities were considered, by tradition, as sanctuaries. 

The situation by 1917 was not at all reassuring. The hunting law 
of 1892, which was in effect at this time, considered only the interests 
of the large landowners; the questions of hunting in the north, in 
Siberia, and in Turkestan were not being considered seriously. It 
was only in 1912, 1913, and 1916 that measures were taken for the 
protection of the sable {Martes zibelUna) in Siberia, when the num- 
bers of this valuable animal were diminished to a dangerously low 
point. 

It should be mentioned that already in the 18th century the law of 
June 17, 1763, forbade all hunting in Russia between the 1st of 



PROTECTION OF FAUNA IN U.S.S.R. — DEMENTIEV 



485 







-^9 

iPAl+rafchainffc 



w C S ^'* Turkijtan' ^ 

J.C.B. '> --V f-s '^ 

Figure 1. — The U.S.S.R., showing areas cited. 



Styi-t r,Mh = TTO 



March and the 29th of June (Julian calendar) — certainly a progres- 
sive measure. 

At that time hunting success was considered from only one point of 
view — the quantity of animals taken. The increase of population, the 
perfection of hunting arms, the steadily rising prices for game — all 
this, seen from the economic angle, caused the intensification of hunt- 
ing as an industry ( and as a sport) . 

The negative influence of human activity in our country increased 
toward the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th. Its 
chief victims were the sea otter {Enhydris lutris), the northern fur 
seal {Callorhinus ursinus), the sable, the European moose {Alces 
aloes), etc. The statistics are incomplete, but the facts themselves 
cannot be doubted. 

The Soviet Government in 1917 had to face altogether new problems 
in the field of conservation and the exploitation of nature. The funda- 
mental social changes, the suppression of large estates, and the na- 
tionalization of the land necessitated the founding of a completely 
new system, both scientific and rational, of exploitation of natural 
resources. New methods for the conservation of nature were espe- 
cially necessary. The general characteristics of this system follow. 

The protection of nature is thought of as an important social 
problem of scientific, moral, esthetic, and economic character. The 
solution of this problem certainly has great value to the present gener- 
ation, as well as to those of the future. Tlierefore, the protection of 



486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

nature should aim at the conservation, the enlarging, and the multi- 
plication of natural resources, not made by man, for man's own use. 
The basis of this protection is an organized and active intervention 
by man in the natural processes, and, as much as possible, in their 
regulation. The "passive conservationist" theory appears altogether 
insufficient. 

Such active methods of nature protection must be founded on sci- 
entific research. Correct solution of the questions of nature protection 
depends above all upon ecological, both zoological and botanical, re- 
search. It is evident that the problems of numerical fluctuations of 
populations, of fertility, of reproduction, of the influence on these proc- 
esses of changes in the natural surroundings, research on seasonal dis- 
tribution and on migrations, on geographical and biotical distributions, 
all have a basic and essential value in the solution of protection prob- 
lems. Research in the areas mentioned above is made by many of the 
institutions of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R., the academies 
of sciences in the various republics, and by specialized scientific uni- 
versities and institutions — for example, the national park system. The 
activity in this field by the Russian Society for the Protection of Na- 
ture, founded in 1924, should certainly be mentioned. 

Ecological questions are treated in hundreds of publications which 
have served as a basis for practical solution of fauna protection prob- 
lems in the U.S.S.R. We should note several national park publica- 
tions on these subjects: research on the sable by Raevski et al. ; those 
on the tiger and the moose by Kaplanov ; those on the wintering of 
birds on the southeastern and southwestern coasts of the Caspian Sea; 
those by Nasimovitch on the hoofed animals of the Caucasus region, 
those by Dmitriev on the hoofed animals of the Altai region; re- 
search on faunal changes since the construction of artificial reservoirs 
in the Volga system; Zablotski's w^ork on the European bison; a 
whole series of publications on the beaver and the moose, etc. A 
bibliography of these works was published in 1948 and in 1949 by 
Nasimovitch. There is a special institute which studies the symptoms 
of fluctuations in game populations. It is from these studies that 
plans are made for the annual exploitation of the principal species. 
Thus, the principles and the perspectives of conservation are always 
taken into consideration in the planning of the use of natural re- 
sources : water and forests, fish, birds, mammals, etc. We have always 
tried to consider the natural renewal and growth of these resources. 

As much as possible is done to improve living conditions of the 
fauna. For example: the prohibition of water pollution by hydro- 
carbonates and by waste from chemical plants; the prohibition of 
water pollution caused by discharge from breweries; new forest 
ranges and a strictly regulated system of forest exploitation ; and the 



PROTECTION OF FAUNA IN U.S.S.R. — DEMENTIEV 487 

greatest possible improvement of habitat, especially in relation to nu- 
trition and feeding. 

Finally, the faima is being actively enriched through introduction 
and reintroduction. Animal species new to the fauna of the U.S.S.R. 
are brought in, and species with a low population or of local distribu- 
tion are increased and dispersed. Acclimatization ranges from the 
protection of birdlife by means of artificial nesting sites to the intro- 
duction of new types of food for fish. 

Special prohibitive measures are used in animal protection. Game 
animals that are low in numbers may be taken only in limited and 
fixed quantities with a special permit. For many species, complete 
protection has been established for a specific period. 

Finally, absolute protection is maintained in some cases. This in- 
cludes the national park system on one hand, the absolute prohibition 
of the capture of certain animals on the other. 

Such are the general principles of fauna protection in the U.S.S.R. 

Various organizations administer nature protection in the U.S.S.R. 
The protection of our waters and fish depends upon the Management 
of Water and Fish of the Ministry of Fisheries and its subordinate 
services. Problems of water and air pollution are regulated by the 
General Sanitary Survey and by the local inspections of the Ministry 
of Health. Hunting is controlled by the Management of National 
Parks and Hunting of the Ministry of Agriculture, by the Manage- 
ments of National Parks and Hunting in connection with the coun- 
cils of ministers of the Soviet republics, and their local representatives. 
The protection of our forests is carried out by the General Manage- 
ment of Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture. The "dead" resources 
are protected by the Ministry of Geology. For the solution of 
scientific problems of nature protection, for the coordination of activi- 
ties in this field, the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R. established 
a special committee in March 1955, composed of members of the 
Academy and other scientists, as well as representatives of interested 
official institutions. Similar committees were created by the Acad- 
emies of Sciences of the majority of the Soviet republics. 

Education in nature protection is carried on by schools and by 
young naturalists' groups (for example in the form of "bird days," 
"forest weeks," etc.), as well as by societies for nature protection. 
The oldest among these societies, the Russian Society for the Protec- 
tion of Nature, was started in 1924. It now includes provincial 
affiliates. This group has contributed greatly to the solution of many 
questions of nature conservation. Other scientific societies (the 
Geographical Society of the U.S.S.R., the Moscow Naturalists' So- 
ciety) participate also in work having nature protection as its goal. 

Finally, the system is carried on by the activity of numerous hunt- 

536608—60 33 



488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

ers, working as inspectors and as voluntary aides, and by the forest 
wardens. 

And now a few examples showing the realization of the principles 
just mentioned. 

We shall omit here the activity of the national parks, and discuss 
other aspects of the protection of fauna in the Russian Republic. By 
federal control, the following species of mammals benefit through pro- 
tection in all parts of the Republic : The sable, the otter, martens, the 
Russian desman {Desmana moschata), the Ussuri dog {Nyctereutes 
'procyonoides) ^ the sea otter, the northern fur seal {Callorhinus ur- 
siniis), the beaver, all species of deer (the roebuck excepted), the 
moose, the saiga antelope, the European bison, the goral {Nemorhae- 
dus goral,, antelope-goat). Protection is absolute for the following 
species : The goral, the beaver, the sea otter, the European red deer, 
the Axis deer, and the European bison. Other species — their num- 
bers having increased very much during recent years — may be hunted 
in limited numbers by persons duly sanctioned and possessing special 
hunting permits, indicating the number, the dates, and the other 
conditions of the hunting of these animals. This system was begun 
in 1946, and included a severe limitation on the hunting of protected 
animals. It had been adopted for the moose in 1945. The hunting 
of moose, an animal which had become rare, was completely forbidden 
in 1919. The results of this protection were so satisfying that now 
the moose has become quite common, not only in Siberia, but also in 
the European section of our country (for example, the immediate en- 
virons of Moscow). 

In reality the list of protected species is much longer, because hunt- 
ing controls imposed by local authorities (the executive committees 
of the Soviets of the Oblasts and of the Krai, the councils of ministers 
of the Autonomous Soviet Republics) give complete protection for 
animals that have become rare or endemic or important scientifically 
in the region of their jurisdiction. It is thus that in Russia, which in- 
cludes 62 large administrative areas, the roebuck is protected in 34 
areas, the silver fox in 27, the weasel in 26, the mink in 23, the badger 
in 20, the ermine and the ferret in 15, the reindeer in 13, the wild boar 
in 13, the steppe marmot in 12, the European red deer in 9, the Si- 
berian red deer {Cervus xanthopygus) in 7, the brown bear in 5, the 
bighorn sheep {Ovis nivicola) and the ibex in 4, the Corsak fox 
{Vulpes corsac) in 4, the Persian gazelle (Antilope subgutturosa) in 
2, the tiger in 2, the chamois in 2, the leopard in 1, etc. The total 
number of mammals protected by local authorities in the Russian 
Republic is now 40. We must realize that for many of these species 
this local protection covers their whole area of distribution in the 
U.S.S.R. : for example, such is the case of the chamois, the red deer, 



PROTECTION OF FAUNA IN U.S.S.R. — DEMENTIEV 48Q 

the bighorn sheep {Ovis nivicola) , the ibex, the Persian gazelle {Anti- 
loj)e subgutturosa) , and the tiger. 

The planned use of natural resources in the U.S.S.R. is essentially 
based upon the principle that all mammals, birds, fishes, etc., consti- 
tuting the fauna are a form of national wealth. All reduction of 
animal populations must be legally performed : whether it is hunting 
for sport or for commercial gain, or whether it is part of the battle 
against injurious animals in terms of agriculture, sylviculture, and 
epidemiology. Aside from this, Soviet legislation considers the fauna 
from a purely conservationist point of view. This is why, for ex- 
ample, the destruction of nests and eggs of birds, the hunting of fe- 
male hoofed mammals and their young (at the age of 1 year and 
under), and the destruction of mammal burrows and dens (wolves 
and injurious rodents excepted) are absolutely forbidden. 

The law on hunting based on the above principles was put into 
effect in Soviet Russia in 1920; since then it has been enlarged and 
amended many times. These laws, as well as decrees by local authori- 
ties, control the list of species that may be hunted, the dates, and the 
methods of hunting, etc. 

We must not forget that the establishment of a state monopoly on 
fur bearers makes impossible any commerce of game products having 
illegal origin. 

The same principle concerning the limitation of hunting licenses 
was applied to the hunting of the saiga antelope {Saiga tatarica). 
At the beginning of this century this animal was almost extinct. 
Complete protection was established in 1920, and now, according to 
a census, there are on the steppes of Astrakhan, of Stalingrad, of 
Stavropol, and of Grozny some 230,000 individuals of this species. 
This antelope has also become very numerous in Kazakhstan. The 
number of desmans, completely protected between 1935 and 1939, has 
grown enough to permit a limited exploitation of this animal. 

Turning to birdlife, complete protection established by the federal 
government includes such species as the flamingo, the egrets, and 
several other groups — passerines (crows excepted), woodpeckers, 
cuckoos, etc. 

The same situation of additional control by local authorities pro- 
tects a large number of other birds — the swans in 40 regions, the Hun- 
garian or gray partridge in 28, buteo-type hawks in 23, the European 
kestrel in 22, owls (the eagle owl, the snowy owl, the scops owl, the 
short-eared owl excepted) in 21, the bustard in 19, harriers (the marsh 
harrier excepted) in 18, the black grouse in 17, the little bustard and 
the pheasant in 10, the steppe eagle in 7, the ptarmigan in 7, the larger 
falcons and the white stork in 3, the Siberian spruce grouse [Falcipen- 
nis falcipennis) in 2, the Caucasian black grouse in 1, the rhinoceros 
auklet {Cerorhinca monocerata) and the Ross gull in 1, etc. 



490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Recently the government of the Russian Republic made an im- 
portant step in the protection of Arctic fauna (the polar bear, the 
reindeer, and the colonies of sea birds) . 

Hunting methods that might exterminate animals en masse are 
forbidden everywhere. These include hunting from an automobile 
or from an airplane, the use of devices for the capture of large num- 
bers of birds at a time, and the capture of animals that are incapable 
of defense — molting geese, etc. Hunting birds in the spring is for- 
bidden in many areas, including the Russian Federated Republic and 
the Ukraine. Some other republics protect wintering birds along 
the shores of the Caspian Sea (Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan). 

Fish protection is carried out primarily by careful control of fishing 
(dates, gear, safeguards for fish not of legal size, etc.), by local pro- 
tection — controlling water systems and certain species; and, finally, 
by a series of measures designed to bring about the best possible re- 
production of fish. The battle against water pollution also enters the 
picture here. 

As I have already mentioned, the system of fauna protection is 
essentially made up of the conservation and improvement of condi- 
tions in the natural surroundings. For example, the forests, with 
their multiple value taken into consideration (the conservation of 
water sources, the protection afforded cultivated land, commercial use, 
etc.), are divided into three categories: (1) Forest sanctuaries, na- 
tional parks, forests protecting river sources, and cultivated areas, and 
forests around cities and industrial centers as well as the woods of the 
Siberian steppes; all these are strictly protected and carefully culti- 
vated. (2) Forests that undergo very limited exploitation, with 
scientific reforestation. (3) Forests far from centers of population 
and from industrial centers, situated to the north and northeast of the 
country in European Russia and in Siberia; they are more fully ex- 
ploited following previously established plans. The division of 
forests into categories is based upon scientific knowledge with the aim 
of conserving the timber resources of the U.S.S.R. The importance 
of this system in problems of fauna conservation is evident. 

Finally, some words on the introduction and the reintroduction of 
animals, seen from the point of view of conservation and the protec- 
tion of nature. The history of such projects before 1917 is not long. 

Toward the middle of the I7th century, there were attempts to in- 
troduce the Siberian silver fox into the woods of the Moscow region. 
G. Steller in 1751 suggested the introduction of the sea otter outside 
of its natural range. In 1886 five beavers from White Russia were 
taken to Ramon, in the governmental district of Voronezh; already 
by 1901 and 1907 surplus beavers from Ramon were introduced to new 
areas. In 1892 seven wild rabbits were introduced near Kherson, on 



PROTECTION OF FAUNA IN U.S.S.R. — DEMENTIEV 491 

the Dnieper River; this animal is now common in the Ukraine be- 
tween the Dnieper and the Dniester Rivers. In 1901 five sables were 
transported to Karaginski Island in the northeastern part of the 
Kamchatka Peninsula ; in 15 years they became common. The fallow 
deer was introduced in many places in European Russia. The mouflon 
was brought into the Crimea, as were European bison. In the 
Askanya Nova Park, bison were introduced (unfortunately they 
crossed with the gray race of Ukrainian bulls), along with many 
African and Asiatic antelopes. There was an effort to introduce 
pheasants, and also ostriches and emus; attempts were made in many 
localities to introduce the Hungarian or gray partridge; the fran- 
colins were introduced in Turkmenia, the red-legged partridge in the 
Crimea, etc. In 1857, on the initiative of Prof. A. Bogdanov, a com- 
mittee on animal and plant introduction was founded at Moscow; it 
was reorganized in 1863 as the Society of Introduction. (At present 
the introduction of land animals is done mostly under the auspices of 
the Institute of Himting as well as under the national parks.) 

But, taken as a whole, introduction before the October Revolution 
(1917) was only accidental or experimental. It was only after 1917 
that the introduction and reintroduction of animals were undertaken 
on a large scale. 

The theoretic preparations for these activities, in regard to fur 
bearers, were started in 1925, under the direction of Professor B. Zhit- 
kov. The realization of these plans came in 1927 Avith the introduction 
of the muskrat {Ondatra sibethica). Since then and until 1953 
(N. Lavrov, 1954), this rodent, numbering 117,000 individuals, was 
introduced in 500 localities throughout the U.S.S.R. It already occu- 
pies an important place in the fur industry of our country. In 1930 
another rodent, the nutria {Myopotamus coy pus) ^ was brought into 
Caucasia and Turkestan. In many regions the American raccoon was 
introduced, as was, in great quantity, the American mink {Mustela 
vison). The Ussuri dog {Nycthereutes procyonoides) was introduced 
in European Russia and the Transcaucasia. The sable was reintro- 
duced in Siberia with great success; since then the numbers of this 
precious animal have grown to a considerable total. A great deal of 
work has been done on the introduction of beavers in European Russia 
and in Siberia, and this animal now inhabits nearly 50 administrative 
areas in our country. The squirrel of central Siberia, the "teleoutka," 
an animal with an excellent pelt, was introduced in the Crimea and the 
Caucasus. But in a short time this animal lost its remarkable fur 
qualities, making the economic success of this introduction not very 
satisfactory. From the point of view of evolutionary theory the 
results will no doubt be very interesting. Tlie European hare {Lepus 
europaeus) was brought into Siberia. In many national parks of 



492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Russia and Transcaucasia, the Axis deer {Oervus nippon) lias been 
introduced. There have been attempts to populate the Caucasus with 
Siberian marmots. The same work has been done with certain birds — 
the pheasant, the capercaillie, the hazel hen, the Hungarian or gray 
partridge, the rock partridge, the ptarmigan, and the black grouse. 

Attempts to increase and reintroduce the European bison should 
also be mentioned. It was well known that this species, with its un- 
equaled scientific and historic value, was in a most precarious position 
after the two World Wars. Now, pureblooded European bison are 
well taken care of and have multiplied extremely well in our national 
parks of Bialovezh and of Oka (Serpukov district, in the region of 
Moscow) . A large number of hybrid bison (but of nearly pure blood) 
live in the national park of the Northwest Caucasus. 

These are only a few examples of work undertaken by the U.S.S.R. 
in introduction and reintroduction. 

For birds, we are proceeding on a large scale with measures for their 
protection, for the improvement of nesting conditions, etc. There have 
been several attempts to import the eggs and young of insectivorous 
species to new tree farms, as well as measures to establish mallards 
and bean geese (Anser anser) on certain water systems. 

Fishes have also been introduced. We can cite the very successful 
introduction of the mullet {Mugil cephalus) in the Caspian Sea, under- 
taken in 1934; that of the sturgeon {Acipenser nudiventris) in the 
Aral Sea between 1934 and 1952; the bringing of the trout {Salmo 
ischan) from Lake Sevan in Armenia to Lake Onega (near Lenin- 
grad) ; the introduction of the lavaret {Ooregonus lavaretus, a white- 
fish of central Europe) in many lakes of European Russia; that of 
topminnows {Gamhusia a^finis) in many localities to control malarial 
disease; attempts to introduce in various lakes the sturgeon and the 
sterlet (another, but smaller, sturgeon, Acipenser ruthenus). Finally, 
there have been attempts to improve feeding conditions for the stur- 
geons of the Caspian Sea by introducing nereid worms. 

Thus, we see that results already obtained in the domain of nature 
protection in the U.S.S.R. are encouraging. But there can be no 
doubt that there is much yet to do. We must remember that besides 
the ecological studies to be intensified, besides the official organization 
that must be unified and enlarged, besides the strict application of the 
law, game regulations are being abused and habitats necessarily 
undergo many changes. Widespread understanding of the concepts 
of nature conservation must be developed, especially among the new 
generation, in both primary and secondary schools (already in many 
of our universities there are courses dealing with nature protection). 

Finally, it must be said that the solution of many problems — and 
not the least important ones — concerned with the protection of the 



PROTECTION OF FAUNA IN U.S.S.R. — DEMENTIEV 493 

nature and with tke fauna of the U.S.S.R. needs international co- 
operation ; for example, the protection of aquatic mammals and migra- 
tory birds. As far as we Imow, the birds using the great Caspian fly- 
way, protected in the U.S.S.R. by three special refuges — Astrakhan, 
Kyzyl- Agatch, and Hassan-kuli — should definitely be protected along 
the southern coastal areas of the Caspian Sea. The International 
Committee for the Protection of Birds gives a sound means for solv- 
ing this problem. The work of the International Committee for the 
Protection and Hunting of Wliales, of which our country has been a 
member since 19iG, represents an encouraging example. These are 
only a few examples. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25, D.C. 



Reconstructing the Ancestor of Corn ^ 



By Paul C. Mangeldorf 

Professor of Botany 
Harvard University 



[With 4 plates] 

Our purpose in reconstructing the ancestor of corn is to retrace, as 
far as possible, some of the principal steps which have been involved 
in its evolution under domestication. We do this in the hope of gain- 
ing a better understanding of the corn plant as one of those unique 
biological systems which man employs on a grand scale to convert 
the energy of the sun, the carbon dioxide of the air, and the minerals 
of the soil into food. Corn is one of perhaps not more than a dozen 
species of cultivated plants of worldwide importance — each one the 
principal source of food of millions of people — which quite literally 
stand between mankind and starvation. 

But corn is something more than an important food plant; it is 
also a mystery, a fascinating botanical mystery, as challenging to a 
scientist as is a mountain to an exployer. 

A UNIQUE CEREAL 

Modem corn, our starting point in this study,^ is unique among the 
cereal grasses in the nature of its inflorescences [1, 2].^ The terminal 
inflorescence, commonly called the "tassel" (fig. 1, J., G)^ usually 
bears only male flowers, each of which contains three pollen sacs or 
anthers (fig. 1, Z>) packed tightly with some 2,500 pollen grains. 
These are small, about 1^50 inch in diameter, light in weight, and 
are easily carried by the wind. 

The lateral inflorescences (fig. 1, ^4, ^) , which when mature become 
the familiar ears of corn, have only female flowers which bear the 



1 Paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Philosophical Society, Apr. 25, 
1958. Reprinted by permission of the Society from the Proceedings, vol. 102, No. 5, October 
1958. 

' The research reported in this article was supported In part by a grant from the Na- 
tional Science Foundation. I am Indebted also to Dr. Walton C. Gallnat for his assistance 
in some aspects of these studies as well as for tlie drawings reproduced in figures 2, 3, 
and 4. 

' Numbers in brackets indicate references at the end of text. 

495 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

pollen-receptive organs commonly known as the "silks." These are 
covered with fine hairs and are admirably designed to capture wind- 
blown pollen (fig. 1, E). Thus corn, in contrast to the majority of 
cereals, is a naturally cross-pollinated plant. It is this feature wliich 
makes possible the production of hybrid corn, one of the most spec- 
tacular developments in applied biology of this century. 

Each silk represents a potential kernel and must be pollinated 
in order for that kernel to develop. The kernels themselves are firmly 
attached to a rigid axis, the cob, and are not covered, as are those 
of other cereals, by the floral bracts which botanists call "glumes" 
and which the layman knows as "chaff." Instead the entire ear is 
enclosed, often quite tightly, by modified leaf sheaths, the husks or 
shucks (fig. 1, B). Thus, while in other cereals the kernels are 
protected individually, in com they are covered en masse. The result 
is that cultivated corn has no mechanism for the dispersal of its 
seeds and hence is no longer capable of reproducing itself without 
man's intervention. The very characteristics which make com so 
useful to man render it incapable of existing in nature, and it is 
probable that corn would quickly become extinct if deprived of 
man's protection. 

How, then, did corn's wild ancestor differ from cultivated corn in 
ways which enabled it to exist in nature for thousands, if not 
millions, of years before man appeared on the scene? This is one 
of the questions which we hoped to answer by reconstructing the 
ancestral form. Our reconstruction is based in part upon fossil and 
archeological remains and in part upon genetic recombination of 
some of the primitive characteristics which still exist in modem com 
varieties. 

FOSSIL CORN POLLEN 

The fossil evidence comprises a number of pollen grains isolated 
from a drill core taken from a depth of more than 200 feet below 
the present site of Mexico City. These were recognized as unusually 
large pollen grains of a grass by Paul Sears of Yale University and 
Kathryn Clisby of Oberlin College, who, in connection with charting 
climatic changes, were engaged in pollen studies of the drill core. 
The pollen was identified by Elso Barghoorn [3] of Harvard Uni- 
versity as that of com, which has the largest pollen of any known 
grass. Although assigned to the last interglacial period and there- 
fore, on the basis of recent estimates, probably at least 80,000 years 
old, the fossil pollen is scarcely distinguishable in size, shape, and 
other characteristics from modem com pollen (pi. 1, fig. 1). This 
fact leaves little doubt that the ancestor of com was corn and not 
one of its two American relatives, teosinte or Tripsacum, 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 



497 



OLDEST CULTIVATED CORN 

Tlie oldest known remains of cultivated com come from a once- 
inhabited rock shelter in New Mexico known as Bat Cave, which 
was excavated by Herbert Dick, of the Peabody Museum of Harvard 
University and later of the Colorado University Museiun, in two 
expeditions, in 1948 and 1950 [4, 6]. This cave was inhabited for 
several thousand years by people who practiced a primitive form 
of agriculture and an even more primitive pattern of sanitation. 
During the centuries of their occupancy, garbage, excrement, and 
other debris accumulated in the cave to a depth of 6 feet, creating 
exactly the kind of site which archeologists delight to dig mto. At 
the bottom of this accumulation of trash, Dick turned up some tiny 
cobs of ancient corn which have been dated, on the basis of "VVillard 
Libby's radiocarbon determination of associated charcoal, at about 
5,600 years. 




Figure 1. — Botanical characteristics of the modern corn plant. {A) The entire plant, 
showing the male inflorescence, the tassel, at the tip of the stalk and the female inflores- 
cences, the ears, in the middle region; {B) young ears enclosed in husks with the pollen- 
receptive organs (the silks) protruding from the ends; (C) typical tassel; (D) typical male 
flower with three anthers containing pollen; {E) a single silk magnified to show hairs and 
adhering pollen grains. [From P. C. Mangelsdorf, "Corn" (2), by permission of Encyclo- 
paedia Britannica] 



498 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Three of these ancient cobs are compared in plate 1, figure 2, with 
a 1-cent piece whose diameter is about equal to their length. One 
of the tiny specimens is compared in plate 1, figure 3, with ears of 
two modern races of corn: the dent corn of the U.S. corn belt and 
a large-seeded flour corn of Peru. How could a com like the Bat 
Cave com have evolved into these and other modern races even in 
5,600 years ? This is the principal question which we hoped to answer 
by retracing some of the steps involved in corn's evolution under 
domestication. 

Since there were no living seeds of the Bat Cave com it was 
impossible to work forward experimentally from it to modern corn. 
The alternative was to work backward from present-day com by 
combining primitive characteristics still occurring in living varieties. 
But what characteristics of corn are primitive ? My associate, W. C. 
Galinat, and I sought to determine this by an intensive study of 
one of the Bat Cave specimens which contained the partial remains 
of a single kernel. Each part of this cob was carefully dissected 
out and measured. On the basis of the measurements, Galinat pre- 




FiGURE 2. — Diagrammatic longitudinal section of one of the Bat Cave cobs, based on meas- 
urements of dissected parts. The tiny kernels show that this was a popcorn; the long 
pedicels on which the kernels are borne and the bracts which almost enclose them indicate 
that it was also a pod corn. [Drawing by W. C. Galinat] 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 499 

pared the diagrammatical, longitudinal section illustrated in figure 2. 
The tiny kernels which this cob must once have borne could only 
be those of popcorn, a type in which the kernels are small and hard 
and capable of exploding when exposed to heat. The long stems or 
pedicels on which the kernels were borne and the long floral bracts 
which almost completely enclosed them show that the Bat Cave com 
was also a form of pod corn, a type in which the individual kernels 
are enclosed in pods or chaff. 

It is interesting to note in this connection that the late E. Lewis 
Sturtevant, a longtime student of corn, concluded many years ago 
that both popcorn and pod corn are primitive. My former colleague 
E. G. Eeeves and I [6] later reached a similar conclusion. The an- 
cient Bat Cave specimens provide convincing archeological evidence 
in support of these conclusions. 

CROSSING PRIMITIVE CORNS 

What we have done, then, is to cross a number of varieties of pop- 
corn from various parts of the world with pod corn (pi. 3, fig. 2), 
which still occurs as a *'rogue" or "freak" in some South American 
varieties and which in some localities is preserved by the Indians, who 
believe it to have magical properties. Pod corn has also sometimes 
been grown in gardens in the United States as a curiosity. Today it 
is most likely to be found in the experimental cultures of corn geneti- 
cists, who maintain it as one of the "marker" genes on the fourth long- 
est chromosome of corn. 

There is no doubt that pod corn is primitive in its characteristic of 
enclosing the kernel in glumes or chaff, as do all other cereals and 
virtually all other grasses. Despite this fact, and because it is often 
monstrous and sometimes sterile, it has been dismissed by a number of 
botanists from any role in the ancestry of corn [7], We believe that 
its monstrousness has been misunderstood — that pod corn is monstrous 
today only because it is a "wild" relict character superimposed upon 
modern highly domesticated varieties. Today's pod corn is compa- 
rable to a 1900 chassis powered by the engine of a 1958 car. The sur- 
prising thing is not that pod corn is sometimes monstrous but that it 
is not more so — that the particular genie locus which governs its ex- 
pression is capable of functioning at all in a milieu so different from 
that in which it was undoubtedly well adapted. We have assumed 
that pod corn would be less monstrous and would exhibit normal grass 
characteristics when combined with other "wild" genes, and we hoped 
to find these in varieties of popcorn. 

Our hopes have been realized. Popcorns in general tend to reduce 
the monstrosity of pod com when crossed with it, and some varieties 
do so quite drastically. The varieties Lady Finger and Argentine 



500 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



carry complexes of modifying genes whicli appreciably reduce the 
monstrosity of pod corn, and a third variety, Baby Golden, carries a 
major modifying gene which, on the basis of preliminary linkage 
tests, appears to be on the sixth chromosome and which acts as an 
inhibitor of pod corn, reducing its expression by approximately half. 



Figure 3. — Diagrammatic longitudinal section based on data from several plants of a 
many-eared corn stalk, showing how the position of the ear on the stalk affects its charac- 
teristics. The higher the ear, the smaller its size, the fewer its husks, and the more likely 
it is to bear both male and female flowers. [Drawing by W. C. Galinat] 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 501 

By combining these modifying and inhibiting genes from several 
popcorn varieties with the pod-corn gene, we have developed a number 
of strains of popcorn which, having this gene present on both of their 
fourth chromosomes, breed true for the pod-corn character. Some of 
these homozygous strains are much less monstrous than the usual 
forms of pod corn, are completely fertile, and might under suitable 
conditions be capable of surviving in the wild. 

EFFECTS OF A SINGLE GENE 

The majority of these true-breeding pod-popcorns have other char- 
acteristics which we may now regard as primitive. The plants, when 
grown on fertile soils, instead of having one stalk, as do most modern 
corns, have several (pi. 3, fig. 1), and in this respect resemble the 
majority of wild grasses, including all the known relatives of corn, 
both American and Asiatic. The plants are shorter than ordinary 
corn because one of the numerous effects of the pod-corn gene is to 
shorten and thicken the upper internodes of the stalk. This is well 
illustrated in plate 3, figure 1, which shows three plants of popcorn 
in one family : one lacking the pod-corn gene, one having the gene on 
one member of its fourth chromosome pair, and one having the gene 
on both members of the pair. There is a progressive decrease in 
height through this series of three genotypes resulting from a short- 
enmg of the upper internodes. This shortening causes, or at least is 
accompanied by, the development of a terminal inflorescence which 
bears both male and female flowers, the male flowers at the tips and 
the female flowers at the bases of the same tassel branches (pi. 2). 
These branches are quite brittle when mature and break apart easily 
when disturbed by the wind or by birds. They thus provide one 
of the most important primitive characteristics which cultivated 
com lacks : a mechanism for the dispersal of seeds. 

POSITION OF THE EAR 

Plants of homozygous pod corn frequently do not have ears— most 
of their energy is apparently concentrated in the terminal in- 
florescences — but when they do have ears these are usually borne hio-h 
upon the stalk (pi. 2), often at the joint of the stem immediately 
below the tassel. This elevation of the position of the ear has pro- 
found effects which are illustrated by the diagram in figure 3. The 
diagram, which is based on data from several many-eared plants, 
shows how a number of the characteristics of the ears are determined 
by their position on the stalk: (1) The higher the position, the 
smaller the ear, partly for the simple mechanical reason that the stalk 
at this position is slender and is incapable of bearing a heavy load. 
It would be mechanically impossible for the large modem ear of corn 



502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




4) C o.i^Tl y '^'^IS 






TS 






■^ M "'ti'S 3 - ■" 



il J-"^ c 



i2 c::"''i=-- t>.' 



2^ '^ "s t:; 



o w -,•.-,:=• 



CO C ' 



tiO 



i- -2 C S u I- »i 



13 



1) y 



o-s 5-s;s 



<^ CS !_, a> 0) 

-a > cu > o 

. T3 O 3 

«';3 S.-e 2" 



u, •- n! o U u 



?! rt-r: 



^ 6-St^<^ 



Dhuo 



"' • - rf ^ 

c 6 S-- 






o Q ^, ij;q 






O H "^ rt O >-^j-, ^ ^ ^ ? '^ ^ 



*^ O to 

60 <-> 2 






u 



c u 



> o J« 






<*! a a. o. cj o oca m o« rt cu^— '.— o d « v.; c 






O <u 






<U g ni 






^ & 



nj C 



60 l> <-• 



f I *-• O flj 



•£l3b^E-i 6 o OS <j!zL 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Mangelsdorf 



PLATE 1 




Smithsonian Report. 1959— MangelsdorF 



PLATE 2 




A tassel and ear of a true-breeding pod corn. The shortening of the internodes of the 
upper part of the stalk causes, or is accompanied by, a tassel which bears both male 
and female flowers. The withered silks immediately below the tassel are from female 
flowers on the tassel branches which bloomed several weeks before this photograph was 
taken. Several seeds, resulting from pollination of these flowers, are visible. Such 
seeds are easily dispersed when mature by the breaking of the fragile tassel branches. 
The fresh silks to the left of the tassel are from a subtassel ear which is enclosed in husks 
when young but can emerge from them and disperse its seeds when mature. The silks 
of this ear can be pollinated by pollen from the anthers in the tassel of the same plant, 
but the female flowers in the tassel can receive pollen only from another plant. Thus, 
the reconstructed primitive corn plant has devices for both self- and cross-pollination- 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Mangelsdorf 



^"^ ^ " ji ^ li * 



^ < * >> > j» > j»* ' > ' »j » *'j»*-»* j i '* « 


























Plate 3 


1) 

s 

bo 
u 

_5 


"o 


60 
C 

"c 

«J 

u, 
O 

CO 


J5 

_6p 

*c 

a 

O 

o 

-a 


OS 
u 

!U 

u 
>-. 

<D 
*-» 

o 
u 


C 
O 


-a 
c 
o 
<j 

V 

a 
>-, 
o 

o 


a 

C 

OS 


S 

1) 
u 


_6C 

o 


0) 


>2 


u 

1) 


o 

Cl, 


o 

*.+-. 


> 
c« 


J3 


3 


re 


a; 


-13 


u 
^ 


o 

u 

o 


O 
CIS 


O 

^3 


o 


-13 


■!-> 


£ 


1) 


1 
■t-J 




■M 
V 




O 


3 


-2 


j:3 


O 


u 


u 


p., 


_4J 


u 


C 


"d. 






^ 


3 

t3 




c« 


n! 


4-) 


O 
J3 


60 

C 




c« 

h-l 


s 




o 

u 

aj 


42 


d 


o 


•-n 


O 


HJ 


>-M 




Oh 


u 


« 

^ 

H 


o 

C 
1) 
60 


o 

4) 


O 
Cl, 


o 

3 


O 

o 

u 


re 
u 




J" 


&! 


I) 


3 
CIS 


c\S 




o 

o 


u 


<L) 


■q. 




^ 


u 


TS 


-a 


<u 


O 


13 




M 






'^ c« -g "* O « -^ 

r! re •- ^-^ -T! -^ -^ 

t: ^ -^ ±; y f-1 !" 



re O O 



O 60 C C -^ -g) ^ 

vb-6op ^ C a '- 
« re D 




Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Mangelsdorf 



Plate 4 




Figure 1. — A prehistoric Zapotec funerary urn from Mexico with two 
representations of primitive corn ears in the headdress and one in the 
hands of the maize god. 




Figure 2.— Details of one of the ears shown above. It is 
probable that the slender column above the small ear 
was intended to represent the male spike of a prehistoric 
ear similar in some of its characteristics to the recon- 
structed ancestral form illustrated in plate 3, figure 3. 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 503 

to be borne near the slender tip of the stalk. (2) The higher the 
position, the more likely is the ear to have both male and female 
flowers. (3) The higher the position, the shorter the lateral branch 
or "shank" upon which the ear is borne. The shorter the branch, 
the fewer the joints from which the husks arise, the fewer the husks, 
and the less completely the ear is enclosed. Thus an ear borne im- 
mediately below the tassel is enclosed while the young seeds are 
developing, but as these mature the husks flare open, allowing the 
ear to disperse its seeds. In short, a simple change in position deter- 
mmed by a single gene change can provide a mechanism for dispereal 
of the seeds borne on the ear as well as those borne on the fragile 
branches of the tassel. 

These facts seem to answer several of the most puzzling questions 
involved in previous attempts to explain corn's evolution : How could 
wild corn have survived the handicap of an ear incapable of dispers- 
ing its seeds? And if wild com had no ears, how could the ear of 
modern corn, its most important organ, have come into existence? 

The position of the ear has an effect on still another characteristic 
illustrated in figure 3, the length of the streamers or leaf blades 
which in many varieties terminate the outer husks. The higher the 
ear, the more likely are the leaf blades to be short or absent. This 
may explain the absence of leaf blades in prehistoric husks found 
both in Bat Cave [5] and in La Perra Cave [8]. 

MODERN AND PRIMITIVE CORN COMPARED 

The most primitive ear we have so far obtained by combining 
popcorn and pod corn is shown in plate 3, figure 3, in comparison 
with an ear of modern dent corn and with the most primitive cob, 
dated at 4,445 ±180 years, from La Perra Cave, which was excavated 
by Richard MacNeish of the National Museum of Canada. 

In weight and nmnber of kernels our reconstruction is much closer 
to the prehistoric La Perra specimen than to the ear of modern dent 
com. The modern ear weighs 317 grams. The ear of pod-popcorn 
weighs 1.99 grams. However, only 24 of its 38 female flowers de- 
veloped kernels. Had all done so, it would weigh 2.47 grams, assum- 
ing the additional kernels to have the same average weight, 0.034 
gram, as those which are present. The La Perra specimen weighs 
only 0.52 gram, but it lacks both the 48 kernels, which it once bore, 
and a male spike. Without its kernels and its male spike, the recon- 
structed ancestral form weighs 0.87 gram, only slightly more than 
the prehistoric specimen. 

Although we have not yet completely reconstructed wild corn, or 
duplicated exactly the most primitive specimens from either Bat Cave 
or La Perra Cave — the glumes of the pod-popcorns are still too 

536608—60 34 



504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

prominent to match those of the prehistoric specimens — we have suc- 
ceeded in developing what is probably the world's most unproductive 
corn. This is useful in suggesting that we are on the right track in 
attempting to retrace corn's evolutionary paths. 

The reconstructed ear illustrated in plate 3, figure 3, has female 
flowers on its lower half and male flowers on the remainder. This, as 
figure 3 shows, is a characteristic of ears borne in a high position on 
the stalk. If our reconstruction is valid, should not prehistoric ears 
also bear male flowers ? A reexamination under the microscope shows 
that at least some of them once did and that these have since been lost 
in handling. Some of the ancient cobs, including the one illustrated 
in plate 3, figure 3, have stumps, previously unnoticed, of a slender 
stem on which male flowei*s were undoubtedly borne. Thus our 
genetically reconstructed ancestral form has taught us to look for 
a characteristic in preliistoric ears which we had previously over- 
looked. It has also shown us the significance of ears bearing terminal 
male spikes which are still found in certain races of corn in the coun- 
tries of Latm America : the races Nal-Tel and Chapalote of Mexico 
(9), Polio of Colombia (10), and Confite of Peru. Finally it may 
explain some curious ears, which had previously puzzled us, molded 
in bas relief on a prehistoric Zapotec funerary urn from Mexico. The 
urn is shown in plate 4, figure 1, and the details of one of the ears in 
plate 4, figiu-e 2. 

In bearing both male and female flowers these ears of pod-popcorn 
also resemble the lateral inflorescences of Tripsacum, a perennial grass 
and a wild relative of corn (pi. 3, fig. 3). This resemblance has in 
turn called attention to additional characteristics in which the recon- 
structed corn resembles Tripsacum: (1) the flowering of the female 
spikelets before the male in both lateral and terminal inflorescences; 
(2) the many-stalked condition; (3) the small, hard, pointed seeds. 

Actually this reconstructed corn might easily be classified as an an- 
nual form of Tripsacum, or conversely, since corn was the first of the 
two to be given a Latin name, Tripsacum could be classified as a 
perennial form of the genus Zea, to which com belongs and which, 
until recently, has been represented by the single species Zea inays. 

These unexpected results of combining popcorn and pod com — the 
production of a counterpart of corn's wild relative, Tripsacum — we 
regard as additional evidence that our reconstruction has validity. 

EVOLUTION UNDER DOMESTICATION 

Figure 4 illustrates some of the principal environmentally induced 
and genetically controlled changes which are believed to have 
occurred during domestication. The first three plants illustrate the 
genetically reconstructed ancestral form as it would be expected to 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 505 

develop m three different environments. The first plant, a short, 
single-stalked plant with a slender, unbranched tassel bearing both 
male and female flowers and no ears, is intended to represent the wild 
corn plant growing in nature in a site of low fertility and ui severe 
competition with other natural vegetation. Such a plant would barely 
reproduce itself. 

The second plant represents this same genotype grown under primi- 
tive agricultural conditions. Here it is still single-stalked but under 
these somewhat better conditions is capable of producing a branched 
tassel and a single small ear borne high upon the stalk. The third 
plant (a counterpart of the third plant in pi. 3, fig. 1) represents the 
genetically reconstructed ancestral form grown imder modern agri- 
cultural conditions with an abimdance of fertilizer and in freedom 
from competition with weeds. Under these conditions it has several 
stalks as well as several small ears on each stalk. Plants like these 
might also have occurred sporadically in the wild under unusually 
favorable natural conditions. 

The ability of the wild corn plant to respond in a spectacular 
fashion to freedom from competition with weeds and to high levels 
of fertility is undoubtedly one factor which led to its domestication. 
This ability to take full advantage of the improved environment 
usually afforded by an agricultural system is one of the characteristics 
found in almost all highly successful domesticated species. There are 
many wild species which do not have this trait; they cannot stand 
prosperity. 

Since the corn plant is genetically plastic as well as responsive to 
an improved environment, domestication may soon have brought other 
changes, which are illustrated in the last four plants in figure 4. 
One of the most important of these was a mutation at the pod-corn 
locus on the fourth chromosome. This single genetic change had 
numerous effects. It reduced the glumes which m wild corn com- 
pletely surrounded the kernels, and the energy released from chaff 
production now went into the development of a larger cob, which 
in turn bore more and larger kernels. The mutation also lowered 
the position of the lateral inflorescences, and this had profound effects 
of several kinds which can be understood by referring again to figure 
3. This shows that : ( 1 ) The lower the ear, the stronger the stalk at 
the position at which the ear is borne and the greater its capacity for 
supporting large ears. (2) The lower the ear, the more likely it is 
to bear only female flowers which develop kernels when pollinated. 
(3) The lower the ear, the longer the shank, the branch on which 
it is borne, and this in turn has a number of important secondary 
effects: the longer the shank, the more numerous its nodes or joints 
and the husks which arise from them; the greater the number of 



506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

husks, the more completely the ear is enclosed and the less capable 
it is of dispersing its seeds. 

In short, a rather simple change but a very important one, the 
lowering of the position of the ear (comparable, perhaps, to moving 
the engine of a primitive airplane from a position behind the wings 
to one in front of them), has separated the sexes, and made for a 
larger strictly grain-bearing ear which is completely protected by 
the husks and is no longer capable of dispersing its seeds. In short, 
a mutation at a single locus on chromosome 4 has made the corn plant 
less able to survive in nature but much more useful to man. 

The last two plants in figure 4 show some of the changes which 
human selection has subsequently effected. Selection for large ears 
has tended to eliminate the secondary stalks and to reduce the number 
of ears per stalk. The fifth plant in figure 4 represents a typical New 
England flint com in which the secondary stalks have been reduced 
to low tillers, known to the farmer as "suckers," which in days of 
cheaper labor were often removed under the erroneous impression 
that their removal was a kind of beneficial pruning operation. The 
last plant represents a typical Cornbelt dent corn which is predomi- 
nantly single- stalked and often bears only one ear, in approximately 
the middle region of the stalk. 

The corn plant has a distinct advantage over other cereals in bear- 
ing its ears in the middle region of the stalk, which, being thicker 
and stronger than the tip, is capable of supporting a larger ear. 
This is a simple and obvious mechanical advantage. There may also 
be a less obvious but even more important physiological advantage. 
We have evidence* that, under otherwise constant conditions with 
respect to the genotype and the environment, a decrease in the weight 
of the tassels may be accompanied by an increase five times as great 
in the weight of the ears. There is at least little doubt that corn, 
by virtue of its botanical characteristics, is potentially more produc- 
tive than the other cereals. For example, record yields of wheat sel- 
dom exceed 100 bushels per acre ; the maximum yields of corn recently 
reported are more than 300 bushels per acre. 

There have, of course, been other factors, not discussed here, in 
corn's evolution under domestication : mutations at many loci in addi- 
tion to that governing the characteristics of pod com; extensive 
hybridization among distinct races [9, 10] ; repeated hybridization 
with teosinte [8, 11] and perhaps also with Trij)sacum [6] ; and 
human selection for many different characteristics. But it was this 
one mutation at the pod-corn locus — this single change in a molecule 
of the hereditary material — which more than any other factor has 
determined the botanical characteristics of modern com and which 



* A report on this evidence Is In preparation. 



THE ANCESTOR OF CORN — MANGELSDORF 507 

set the plant upon new evolutionary paths that have made it more 
useful to man and more dependent upon him for survival. 

REFERENCES 

1. O. T. BoNNETT, The inflorescences of maize. Science, vol. 120, pp. 77-87, 1954 ; 

P. Weathebwax, Structure and development of reproductive organs [of 
corn]. In Corn and Corn Improvement. New York, 1955. 

2. P. C. Mangelsdobf, Corn, In Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1958. 

3. E. S. Bahghoorn, M. K. Wolfe, and K. H. Clisby, Fossil maize from the 

Valley of Mexico. Botanical Museum Harvard Univ. Leafl. No. 16, pp. 
229-240, 1954. 

4. P. C. Mangelsdorf, New evidence on the origin and ancestry of maize. 

Amer. Antiq., vol. 19, pp. 409-410, 1954. 

5. P. C. Mangelsdorf and C. E. Smith, Jr., New archaeological evidence on 

evolution in maize. Botanical Museum' Harvard Univ. Leafl. No. 13, pp. 
213-247, 1949. 

6. P. C. Mangelsdorf and R. G. Reeves, The origin of Indian corn and its 

relatives. Texas Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. No. 574, 1939. 

7. P. Weatherwax, Indian corn in Old America. New York, 1954 ; P. Weather- 

wax and L. F. Randolph, History and origin of corn. In Corn and Corn 
Improvement. New York, 1955. 

8. P. C. Mangelsdorf, R. S. MacNeish, and W. C. Galinat, Archaeological evi- 

dence on the diffusion and evolution of maize in northeastern Mexico. 
Botanical Museum Harvard Univ. Leafl. No. 17, pp. 125-150, 1956. 

9. E. J. Wellhausen, L. M. Roberts, and E. Hernandez, in collaboration with 

P. C. Mangelsdorf, Races of maize in Mexico. Bussey Institution, Har- 
vard Univ., 1952. 

10. L. M. Roberts, U. J. Grant, R. Ramirez, W. H. Hathewat, and D. L. Smith, 

in collaboration with P. C. Mangelsdorf, Races of maize in Colombia. Nat. 
Acad. Sci., Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. No. 510, 1957. 

11. W. C. Galinat, P. C. Mangelsdorf, and L. Pierson, Estimates of teosinte 

introgression in archaeological maize. Botanical Museum Harvard Univ. 
Leafl. No. 17, pp. 101-124, 1956; P. C. IMangelsdorf and R. L. Lister, 
Archaeological evidence on the evolution of maize in northwestern Mexico. 
Botanical Museum Harvard Univ. Leafl. No. 17, pp. 151-177, 1956. 



The Need To Classify ^ 



By Roger L. Batten 

Department of Geology 
The University of Wisconsin 



[With 1 plate] 



One of mankind's earliest intellectual endeavors was the attempt to 
gather together the seemingly overwhelming variety presented by 
nature into an orderly pattern. The desire to classify — to im})ose 
order on chaos and then to form patterns out of this order on which 
to base ideas and conclusions — remains one of our strongest urges. 
This same desire is the basic stuff of science. 

The classification of living forms is a complex endeavor. It is also 
a constantly changing one. Even to this day, as new organisms are 
discovered, we are often faced with the need to revise past systems 
of classification — and we are never quite satisfied with the latest 
system. 

How do these classifications of life serve us? One of their most 
exciting uses is in unraveling the extremely tangled record of life's 
evolution during the 500 million years for which we have records of 
organisms. 

In biology, the description of newly discovered organisms is not 
so common today as it was 50 years ago. In paleontology — the study 
of the remains of formerly living organisms — however, the job is 
far from complete. This is because it is not nearly so easy to obtain 
fossils as it is to collect living specimens: even after fossils are found 
in rock, it requires much painstaking preparation just to see the 
characters by which they can be classified. Almost daily in the field 
of paleontology, newly discovered fossil forms are being analyzed 
and described. 

It is easy to see that such discoveries require almost continuous 
change in our systems of classification. For it follows that, as more 
information accumulates, the "new" forms must be incorporated in 
the classification and our concepts of the relative positions and inter- 
relations between various groups of organisms must also change. For 
formal classification is, in essence, a rather artificial structure — a tool 



> Reprinted by permission from Natural History, 67, No. 3, March 1958. 

509 



510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 511 

used to express current ideas regarding the relationship of organisms 
one with another. 

From the first, mankind classified the things he observed by a 
method which declared that "like things belong together." This 
method was implicit in the first classification of living things and 
remains the chief method of classifying today. But it is a method 
that must be used with discretion for — as we shall see — one can very 
easily classify objects on the basis of their superficial resemblances, 
while overlooking important basic characteristics which may be some- 
what less obvious. 

As an example, we might say, "I will construct a category for 
animals that fly." Such a single category would include many flying 
animals that were more or less related. But birds and bats would 
occupy the same category, because both possess flying appendages. 
Upon closer examination, however, we would note that the wings of 
a bird and a bat are actually quite different. Further examination 
of the other organs of birds and bats would show that, while these 
two animals are superficially alike, in detail they are not at all closely 
related. If we were sensible, we would change our classification to 
recognize these differences. 

Refinements of a classification — although considerably more subtle 
than in this example — are a daily and important part of work today 
that aims at achieving a framework which reflects the relative degree 
of relationship both between contemporary organisms and between 
the animal forms of the evolutionary past. 

Let me now relate a case that demonstrates how our knowledge 
has increased over the years and show some of the effects that this 
increased knowledge has had on classification. We will take the 
phylum Mollusca, and, within this phylum, chiefly the snails (which 
in classification are called the class Gastropoda). In addition to the 
snails, other classes belonging to this same phylum include : 

Phylum MOLLUSCA : 

Class PoLYPLAcoPHOBA (chltons) 

Class Pelecypoda (clams) 

Class Cephalopoda (octopus — chambered nautilus) 

Class ScAPHOPODA (tusk shells) 

We know that among the myriad of snails that make up the class 
Gastropoda (some 50,000 species are known to exist) there are sev- 
eral groups, collectively known as the "limpets," which are peculiarly 
adapted to a rocky environment where surf or swift currents present 
rather rigorous conditions for life. These limpets have cap-shaped 
shells, and possess powerful muscles that enable them to adhere to 
rocks, even under the stress of pounding surf (figs. 2 and 3). 



512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 




Figure 2. — Living limpet, Acmaea, is shown attached to a rock, its shell raised somewhat 
higher above the fleshy foot than normal. Limpet's front faces to the left. 





Figure 3. — Bilateral symmetry of chiton (left) with mouth and anus at opposite ends, 
contrasts with curled, one-sided patellid and snail (right) where same organs lie in close 
proximity. 



NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 513 

As we know today, there are several families of gastropods having 
representatives adapted to life in such rough and rocky environ- 
ments (fig. 6). All of them possess shells that are superficially quite 
similar, since they share a common habitat. Early zoological classi- 
fiers, looking at these cap-shaped shells, assumed that these different 
gastropods were members of the same group. The paleontologists, too, 
when they began to turn up such shells in the fossil record, classified all 
the cap-shaped shells as members of the limpet group. The classifica- 
tion, as formed by them, showed one group of "limpets" from very 
early geologic time to recent times. Such a classification would look 
like the illustration shown in figure 4. 

Meanwhile, the biologists — who were studying living limpets- 
soon recognized that, in addition to the "true" ones (which they called 
patellids), there actually were several other more or less distantly 
related families of gastropods, members of which resembled true 
limpets. 

This discovery was possible because the biologists studied the living 
tissue and organs. Unfortunately, the paleontologists had only the 
shells available, and were unable to study the differences in the organs 
between the various cap-shaped forms. For many years, in conse- 
quence, little change occurred in classification of the extinct forms. 

Before we go further, we must learn something more about the 
gastropods. Most organisms, we know, possess some sort of sym- 
metry in their bodily arrangement. The commonest type of symmetry 
is a bilateral arrangement, in which one side of the organism is a 
mirror image of the other, and the organism's head and tail lie at 
opposite ends of the body. Most gastropods are asymmetrical, having 
lost one "side" sometime in the course of their evolution. When we 
look at a snail, we see that the soft parts of its body are contained in 
a shell which, although often coiled, is usually a long, narrow cone, 
open at one end (see fig. 3) . 

An examination of rock-clinging patellids — the true limpets — shows 
that, while they have cap-shaped rather than long, narrow shells, here, 
too, only one "side" of the organism is present and anus and mouth are 
in close proximity. In other words, all the limpets are typical, coiled 
asymmetrical gastropods (see fig. 5) . 

We have already been introduced to another class in the order of 
mollusks — the polypi acophorans, or chitons. These chitons share a 
rock-clinging environment with the limpets, but they are a much 
more primitive form of mollusk. Anus and mouth are at opposite 
ends of the chiton's body and the body itself is bilaterally symmetrical. 
The chitons' shells are different from those of the patellids, having 
eight separate plates instead of a single shell (see fig. 9). It was 
thus obvious — even to the early classifiers — that, while these two 



514 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 




DIOZON]D 



NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 



515 




O 





Figure 5. — Growth of rock-clingcr, from early whorl to final cap-shaped form, is seen here 
with Fissurella, the keyhole limpet, another large limpet group belonging to the super- 
family Fissurcllacea of the Archeogastropoda. First three growth stages are shown 
greatly magnified. 

organisms shared a similar environment, they ^Yere vastly different 
from each other. What was not so apparent, however, was that some 
of the gastropod groups that possessed cap-shaped shells were very 
different from other gastropod groups that also possessed such shells. 

A few years ago, paleontologists attempted to reclassify some cap- 
shaped fossil shells that dated back to the early Paleozoic. With 
no soft parts to examine directly, they critically studied these shells 
for characteristics that could be related to the absent tissue. In the 
study of living patellids, it had been noted that a continuous "muscle 
scar" ran around the inside of their shells, marking the attachment 
area for the limpets' powerful muscles. The paleontologists found 
that many of the fossil shells exhibited such a continuous "muscle 
scar." Therefore, they felt safe in assuming that tlie missing soft 
parts had been similar to those found in living patellids. 

However, the paleontologists also discovered that other cap-shaped 
shells possessed, instead, two to eight pairs of distinct "muscle scars." 
Two things were curious about these ancient muscle scars : first, some 
were eight in number and, second, they were ai'ranged around the 
shell in bilaterally symmetrical pairs. The paleontologists could 
only speculate that these shells were, in fact, so primitive that the 



516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 




Figure 6. — Only "true" limpet among these rock-clinging gastropods is the patellid at 
bottom, left. The others, quite similar in form, are, clockwise, Crucibulum, belonging 
to another order (Caenogastropoda), Haliotis, belonging to the superfamily Pleuro- 
tomariacca of the Archeogastropoda, and Diodora, another fissurellid. 

organisms had not yet lost one of their "sides." They concluded that 
these primitive forms, unlike most gastropods, had possessed bilat- 
erally symmetrical soft parts (fig. 10) . 

If this conclusion was true, then the paleontologists had discovered 
the probable ancestral group from which later gastropods were de- 
rived. Indeed, it seemed possible that not only were these forms 
(which are called monoplacophorans) the basal stock for the gastro- 
pods, but for the eight-plated chitons as well. Here, then, was some 
evidence with which to construct a new classification — one that had 
brought together two groups previously widely separated: the class 
Polyplacophora and the class Gastropoda. Such a classification is 
illustrated in figure 7. This new interpretation made it possible, for 
the first time, to relate two diverse groups as well as to understand 
something of the evolution of these groups. 

The never-ending labor of classification, whether it is the work of 
biologists or paleontologists or others, receives contributions from all. 
Shortly after the Smithsonian paleontologists' announcement ^ of this 
particular revised classification, a serologist — studying blood types 
in the mollusks — proved that the gastropods and chitons could not 



^Knight, J. Brookes, Primitive fossil gastropods and their bearing on gastropod classifi- 
cation. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 117, No. 13, October 29, 1952. 



NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 



517 



c 



(U to 

60 a 
c o 






< 


^ 2 o 




a: 


oS 4J h 




O 

X 






a. 






O 


c o <« 




u 


c b^ 




< 


O HJ , 


«/> 


Q. 


Sea 
isco 
on 


(/) 


>- 


< 


o 


assi 
not 



3IOZON3) 



3IOZO]lVd 



P^ o 



: cxc 



fn 



518 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



TJ -o 




ni 


e) 


-C-C 










r>- 


•xi 




c 


fin 


CS 


td 


r 



e o 






<L> CI, 

u. o 

>. a 

li ^ 

J§ 

U o 

o S 



DI0Z0N3D 



Diozoaivd 





"^IH^: 




g-^- 




S "-I 


, 


■*-^ ^-^. — ' 




ci i^'-^ 


jHS 


S) > = 


3jn 


03 


^ "r 


-O-^™, 


^^ 


e rt -a 




iJi 






.t: S « 


^ 


r- V 


^ 


'0 !5-a 


tt 


nj w 


f\ 


4^ fe 


\J 


c« "^ a. 


X 


-J:: C >. 


a. 


o-c 


O 




< 


rov 

sific 

Th 


.J 


0. CO 


a. 


^--n-^ 


>- 


^ u 


-J 


P <u S 


O 


to -S *" 


a. 


U-^H S 




a^ S 


«/) 


>. •- 


to 


t^ c^ 


< 


-^.2 " 


u 


loo 
:vis 
the 




-^ £i^ 




^ ^ ° 




« 1UJ3 




3J5 u 



S^. 






NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 



519 




Figure 9. — Top view of chiton shows eight separate plates of Its shell. 

be so closely related as the revised classification proposed. It was 
necessary, therefore, to revise the classification further, so that the 
monoplacophorans were placed in with the chitons, while the gastro- 
pods were viewed as a branching-off from the chiton stock. 

Again, a major change in classification had been made, in order 
to fit newly discovered facts (fig. 8) . 





Figure 10. — Multiple muscle scars of fossil monoplacophorans (left) are contrasted here 
with the continuous, ringlike muscle scar of a fossil patellid. With this clue to bilateral 
symmetry, the paleontologists reconstructed a hypothetical set of symmetrical body organs 
for the monoplacophorans (right) in which anus and mouth lie at opposite ends of the 
animal. 



520 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 






US 

^ O 




S-5 



= S. 



*u 


o-^ »• 






^ 


5 *-■ c 

.2 3- = 


VDl ^ 


.co^-H, 


wV °^ 


> >,'o 




U 1) .-. 


^^ 


St major 
na discov 
f many c 


yfi ^ 


At "^ 


42^ to 


nV ^ 


jWcrjO 


^?/^ 


W •^ 2 


*^fe;-a 




co^ c 


rt o 1) 

l-i l-t r" 


Ay 


P-^-to 


r> 


h incoi 
rimari 
jmbine 



^ £ 



u to c 



DI0Z0N3D 



)IOZO]lVd 



< 

—I 

(J 


—J 



OL 


11. — Latest class 
cophora. This re 
nge in the light 










S--S 






g & u 



fe 



NEED TO CLASSIFY — BATTEN 521 

Thus, up to 1956, stood the classification of the primitive forms of 
gastropods — a far cry from the first classification that had viewed all 
the limpets as members of one family. 

Now, looking at the fossil record, we can make another observa- 
tion. The primitive monoplacophorans were not a successful group 
of animals : they apparently became extinct about 280 million years 
ago — probably giving way to the more advanced limpets, which could 
more successfully adapt to the environment of that time. But about 
8 years ago, during the expedition of the Danish vessel Galathea^ sev- 
eral tiny cap-shaped shells were brought to the surface by the deep-sea 
dredging operations. The natural first impression was that they were 
limpets, because no other group of cap-shaped shells were known to 
be extant. Upon careful examination in the laboratory, however, 
some sharp differences were noted between these forms and the usual 
gastropods adapted for rock-clinging environment. This new form, 
duly described and named Neopilina galathaea, was presented to the 
astounded scientific world early in 1957. Others have been found since 
then. For here was a living monoplacophoran, previously thought to 
be extinct for 280 million years ! (See fig. 12 and pi. 1.) NeopUina^ 
with its eight distinct muscles and bilateral symmetry — mouth and 
anus at opposite ends of its body — is the very organism hypothetically 
constructed by the paleontologists 5 years before. 

Many of the characters of Neopilina predicted by the paleontologists 
were found: several other characters that could not have been pre- 
dicted were also present. These additional characteristics are bring- 
ing even further changes in classification. One major discovery is the 
presence in Neopilina of what appears to be body-cavity segmentation, 
and a separate gill for each of the paired muscles. Segmentation of 
the body cavity is considered by zoologists to be a primitive char- 
acteristic. Such segmentation is shared by several very different 
phyla, including the worms and the arthropods (that great group 
which includes such diverse forms as lobsters, spiders, and insects). 

One suspects that there will be a strong temptation to revise classi- 
fication in a manner which will relate some of these diverse forms 
more closely than is the case at present. 

In our own task of unraveling the complex relationships between 
various primitive mollusks, the discovery of Neopilina has sent the 
paleontologists back to further study of their collections. Perhaps 
some minor feature, overlooked before, will now have great signif- 
icance. Already some of the rather vague muscle scars of fossils that 
had been placed in other gastropod families indicate that these belong, 
instead, among the monoplacophorans. 

The search is far from completed ; it will take several years for all 
of us to understand and reevaluate our data. So far, we know much 
more about how the gastropods and other mollusks came to be and, 



522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

yes, we have made still another change in the classification ! We know 
now that the monoplacophorans are not gastropods and — even more 
important — are not chitons, either. How are we to represent this in 
our classification ? We will erect a brand new class, the class Mono- 
placophora, the first new class to be erected since 1876, when the 
chitons were separated from the gastropods. The new classification 
will then look like the illustration shown on figure 11. 

Thus, the work of a variety of scientists — a discovery off the coast 
of Costa Rica, the study of blood types, and the examination of ob- 
scure fossils — ^have wrought major changes in the classification, and 
by so doing have moved man toward a better imderstanding of the 
great stream of life. 




Figure 12. — The astonishing recovery of a living monoplacophoran by the Galathea Ex- 
pedition in 1951 (bottom view above) gave confirmation to the paleontologists' hypothet- 
ical reconstruction. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Batten 



PLATE 1 




Current Advances and Concepts in 
Virology ^ 



[With 4 plates] 
THESE VERY WEE ANIMALS 

"The fourth sort of little animals, which drifted among the three 
sorts aforesaid, were incredibly small ; nay, so small, in my sight, that 
I judged that even if 100 of these very wee animals lay stretched out 
one against another, they could not reach to the length of a grain of 
coarse sand. . . ." This quotation is attributed to Anton van Leeu- 
wenhoek, a Dutch linen draper, who was the father of microscopy and 
probably the first to see bacteria (1) .^ 

Many years later, attempts were made to remove these very wee 
animals. Cotton plugs and porous unbumt clay were used, and, in 
1877, Pasteur employed plaster of paris to separate anthrax bacilli 
from their containing fluids. 

In 1891, Nordtmeyer introduced a new filter medium made of com- 
pressed mfusorial earth known as Kieselguhr. The filtering capabil- 
ities of this substance were noticed because the ground water in the 
Kieselguhr mine in Unterluss (Hannover) was of a clear blue color. 
The filter of Kieselguhr, which is still used today, was called "Berke- 
feld," after the owner of the mine. These filters are capable of hold- 
ing back the smallest bacteria, and fluids which have passed through 
them are bacteriologically sterile. Yet, infections may be produced 
by such sterile fluids because the causative agents — viruses — have 
filter-passing ability as a typical characteristic. 

Actually, the first scientific demonstration of the existence of a 
virus disease must be accredited to Ivanovski, a Russian botanist, who, 
in 1892, was investigating a disease of the tobacco plant known as 
tobacco mosaic. This worker extracted some of the sap from a dis- 
eased plant and passed it through a fine filter made of unglazed porce- 
lain. He then discovered that the filtrate, although sparkling clear 



^ Prepared by members of the medical staff, Lilly Research Laboratories. Reprinted by 
permission from Physician's Bulletin, vol. 24, No. 3, Apr. 1, 1959, published by Eli Lilly & 
Co., S. O. Waife, M.D., editor. 

* Numbers in parentheses indicate references at end of text. 

623 



524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

and free of all bacteria, had the power of producing the disease when 
rubbed on the leaves of healthy tobacco plants. Despite the evidence 
of this experiment, Ivanovski himself, as well as the scientists of his 
day, believed that the disease was caused by bacteria. 

Seven years later, this phenomenon was rediscovered by Beijerinck, 
who extended these obsei-vations and recognized that a new type of 
agent had been discovered. Pie gave it the appropriate name con- 
tagium vivum fluidii/m — a living contagious fluid. 

Although the discovery of the existence of viruses is of recent date, 
virus diseases have played a long historic role in the life of man. 
Smallpox existed in China as early as 1700 B.C., and yellow fever was 
recognized as early as the 17th century. In fact, the establisliment of 
the Haitian Republic was largely due to yellow fever, since most of 
the French troops sent to invade the island died of the disease there. 

Of course, long before the microbiologic era in medicine, a method 
of preventing one infectious (virus) disease had been devised and its 
use thoroughly established; namely, vaccination against smallpox 
( Jenner) . Yet it is curious that, in spite of its ancient lineage, virol- 
ogy has only recently burst forth into full bloom as a vigorous, if not 
explosive, branch of medical science. 

The following pages present a few of the highlights of current ad- 
vances and concepts in virology. 

WHAT IS A VIRUS? 

The submicroscopic particle Imown as a virus stands in the limbo 
between "living things" and chemical compounds. No longer does 
one ask, "Is a virus a plant or an animal ?" Rather, one asks, "Isn't it 
a complex chemical (a nucleoprotein) with both the actual and po- 
tential properties of life itself?" 

We now know that a virus consists grossly of a protein shell around 
nucleic acid material. It may be, however, that this description is too 
simplified. At any rate, the shell is made up of many small, sym- 
metrically arranged protein molecules. The protein coat may be, like 
most proteins, antigenic. Antibodies produced against this antigen 
can "neutralize" the virus. Thus, antiserum would seem to be useful. 
However, it can act only on virus in serum before it enters a cell ; and, 
since this is a transient phase in the life cycle of these tiny particles, 
little clinical use can be made of antiserums (2) . 

Inside the protein coat is nucleic acid material which in many 
viruses consists of ribonucleic acid (RNA). Other viruses, includ- 
ing those which attack bacteria (bacteriophage), contain deoxyri- 
bonucleic acid (DNA) . In animal tissue, DNA is largely nuclear and 
RNA cytoplasmic in location. 

Nucleic acids are complex chemical molecules. They consist of a 
double spiral of long chains of sugar-phosphate-purine (or pyrimi- 



VIROLOGY — LILLY RESEARCH LABORATORIES 



525 



dine) groups ; one such unit is called a nucleotide, RNA differs from 
DNA in the sugar moiety. The complexity of nucleic acids can be 
judged from the fact that thymus DNA has a molecular weight on 
the order of 4,000,000 and contains about 10,000 nucleotides. 

Infectivity and the capacity to damage or destroy cells are said to 
be f mictions of the nucleic-acid content. 

Viruses vary considerably in size and, to some extent, in shape. The 
largest measure about 300 millimicrons (m^u.) in diameter, the smaller 
about one-tenth of this or less. (In comparison, a staphylococcus has 
a diameter of about 1,000 m/t.) Their configuration, as determined 
from advanced technics, may be classified roughly into spheres, rods, 
and ellipsoids (pi. 1). 

CLASSIFICATION 

No satisfactory classification comparable to bacterial groupings has 
been devised for viruses. These individualistic creatures do not seem 
to fall into a logical pattern. They may be grouped according to their 
primary site of action, antigenic relationship, mode of transmission, 
pathologic tissue reactions, immmiologic properties, etc. Because we 
know a lot more about the diseases than about the organisms, the simple 
"clinical" classification provided in table 1 may be useful. 

Tablb 1. — Clinical grouping of selected virus diseases 



Dermatotropic : 

Smallpox 

Chickenpox 

Herpes zoster 

Measles 

Herpes simplex 

Exanthem subitum 
Respiratory — Parotid : 

Influenza 

Mumps 

Adenovirus infection 

"Common cold" 
Neurotropic : 

Poliomyelitis 

Rabies 

Lymphocytic clioriomeningitis 
Hepatic : 

Infectious hepatitis 

Serum hepatitis 



Arthropod-borne : 
Yellow fever 
Dengue 
Encephalitides 

Psittacosis — Lymphogranuloma Group : 
Psittacosis 

Lymphogranuloma venereum 
Trachoma 
Inclusion conjunctivitis 

Miscellaneous : 

Coxsackie virus infection 
ECHO virus infection 
Verruca e 

Epidemic keratoconjunctivitis 
Foot-and-mouth disease 
Salivai-y gland virus infection 



MULTIPLICATION OF VIRUSES 

It may come as a surprise to know that invasion by and multiplica- 
tion of viruses are known in considerable detail. Some description of 
these processes is essential for a fundamental appreciation of the 
problems at the bedside. 

Bacterial viruses. — Bacteriophage (phage, for short) has a spe- 
cialized head and tail structure. Phage attaches itself to the surface 



526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

of the bacteriiun (pi. 2, fig. 1) by means of its "tail." The exterior 
coat may be likened to a disposable microsyringe, the function of 
which is to inject phage DNA into the bacterial cell (3). There fol- 
lows a short period during which the virus cannot be detected by means 
currently at our disposal. Inside the cell, the virus DNA begins to 
make replicas of itself, using as raw materials the nucleic acids of the 
bacterial host and fresh substances absorbed by the bacteria from the 
surrounding media. The DNA also induces the synthesis of new 
protein in the cell, which in turn combines with the new DNA to form 
many new virus particles. Multiplication continues until the cell wall 
bursts and virus particles are released. (Notice a resemblance to inva- 
sion of red blood cells by malaria parasites.) 

Anwnal-cell viruses. — The common viruses that infect man have no 
specialized tail-like mechanisms. However, they do attach to the sur- 
face of tissue cells, and there results a spreading disturbance along 
the surface which can be likened to a mucinolytic action (3). Some 
viruses, notably influenza, may be taken into the cell by an active 
process of ingestion by the cells themselves (pinocytosis). In con- 
trast to phage, it is difficult to separate the phase of replication from 
that of maturation and release. This may be so because animal cells 
have much less rigid walls than do bacteria, and "new virus seems 
able to escape from the cells almost as soon as it is formed. In the 
case of influenza. Western equine encephalomyelitis, and poliomyelitis, 
there is a period after the infecting virus has penetrated the cells 
during which no infectivity is recoverable, followed by a period dur- 
ing which new virus is released from the cells in an exponential 
manner" (3). 

Cellular infection by an animal virus may cause one or a number 
of centers to be set up for the manufacture of new virus particles, 
each of which can escape from the cell almost as soon as it is formed 
(pi. 2, fig. 2). Damage to the cell, however, is not correlated with 
the amount of new virus produced. 

Lwoff et al. (4) studied the release of polio virus from single 
infected cells and found that once new virus was formed, it leaked 
rapidly from the infected cell. Cell death occurred when virus pro- 
duction ceased. Thus, escape of virus particles from infected cells 
causes only trivial damage to the cell surface. 

GENES 

According to the modern view of biology, almost all metabolic 
processes are catalyzed by enzymes, and all enzymes are protein mole- 
cules. The synthesis of enzymes is controlled by genes, and probably 
one gene controls the synthesis of one enzyme. A gene, therefore, 
must be able not only to duplicate itself as part of normal cell repro- 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Lilly Research Laboratories 



Plate 1 




U 



M 



m E" 




X 



> 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Lilly Research Laboratories 



Plate 2 








V 



ir 



a 



\ 



9/% 








o 



1. Schematic representation of invasion by and multiplication of bacteriophage. In a short 
period of time bacterial lysis occurs. The figure represents T-coliphage attacking Escheri- 
chia coli. 




2. Schematic representation of virus invasion and multiplication in animal tissue cell. There 
is no "tail," and cell lysis does not characteristically occur. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 959 — Lilly Research Laboratories 



PLATE 3 




0) ■-" u: 



c -^ 



•5 § 



2 : 

Q 



■M !> 



5 o -13 u, 




Smithsonian Report, 1 959 — Lilly Research Laboratories 



PLATE 4 




1. Normal liver. There is a iianie-rcd 
fluorescence of cytoplasmic RNx\. The 
nuclei, containing DNA, have a greenish- 
yellow color. (X 225.) 



2. Normal salivary gland. Here the cyto- 
plasmic RNA is situated at the base of 
the epithelial cells. Five tissue mast 
cells showing mahogany-red fluorescent 
granules are present. (X 225.) 




3. Calf-kidney tissue culture infected 18 
hours previously with influenza A (W.S. 
strain). Many of the nuclei show 
diffuse RNA fluorescence of varying 
intensity. The pattern of cytoplasmic 
RNA fluorescence is altered in many of 
the cells. (X 225.) 



4. HeLa cells infected 2 days previously 
with adenovirus, type 5. This is a late 
stage of infection, and intensely fluores- 
cing condensed masses of DNA-contain- 
ing material occupy the center of some 
nuclei. An apparently normal nucleus 
is in the center of the field. (X 325.) 



VIROLOGY — LILLY RESEARCH LABORATORIES 527 

duction but also to determine the specificity of a protein molecule, i.e., 

the enzyme. 

STRUCTURE OF GENETIC MATERIAL 

What is transmitted in us from one generation to the next is not 
a characteristic eye pigment or blood type. Eather, it is a set of 
factors in chromosomes which are able to influence the activities of 
cells so that certain substances responsible for eye pigment or blood 
type are produced. 

Current research indicates that chromosomes are largely composed 
of DNA,^ which suggests that this substance is a major constituent 
of genes. In fact, we can say that DNA, the basic stuff of all cell 
nuclei, is the sole carrier of genetic information in all organisms 
(except in small viruses, where EN A appears instead). The word 
"information" as used here means that genetic material tells the repli- 
cating cell what its characteristics are to be. This information is in 
a chemical "code" in the structural form of the molecule. 

In spite of the complexity of its structure, the only variables in 
DNA are the purine, or pyrimidine, bases ( adenine, guanine, thymine, 
cytosine), which are constant in any particular species. It appears 
that they are probably arranged in a definite sequence — which has 
been called the genetic code. 

Each time a cell divides, an exact copy of genetic information must 
be made in order to insure continuity. Therefore, much interest is 
shown in structural features. 

DNA would seem to be a double helix with the bases in each chain 
in a complementary sequence (pi. 3, fig.l). The two chains separate 
and make a duplicate of themselves, each offspring being an exact 
copy (pi. 3, fig. 2).^ 

ENA, not DNA, controls protein synthesis in the cell and may carry 
genetic information from nucleus to cytoplasm (5). Its structure is 
not completely miderstood. 

Most protein is probably made in the cytoplasm^ where the point 
of polymerization seems to have been traced to small spherical 
particles known as microsomes. These particles resemble spherical 
viruses in shape and composition. "This suggests that a virus in- 
fection may be equivalent to the injection of an apparatus for the 
manufacture of the wrong protein" (6) . 

The matter of genetic mutations, important in virology (such as 
the development of new virulent strains of influenza virus) as well 
as in clinical medicine, may also be explained in simple terms as the 
formation of an abnormal protein. 

• Sperm with half the chromosomes of a normal cell has about half the amount of DNA. 

*DNA can be extracted and transferred to another strain of bacteria and thus produces 
genetic transformation. When this transfer is made through infection by phage, it la 
known as transduction. The recent award of the Nobel Prize in Medicine went to Drs. 
Lederberg, Beadle, and Tatum for discoTerles along these lines. 

536608—60 35 



528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

There is an important similarity between the structure of a protein 
and that of a nucleic acid. Both have a specific linear sequence of 
different units on a long chain,^ and both have a helical structure. 
Nucleic acids contain mainly 4 different kinds of bases; proteins 
contain mamly 20 different kinds of amino acids. The sequence of 
these units (adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine) determines the 
specificity of the nucleic acids, just as the particular sequence of let- 
ters specifies a word. In addition, it has been assumed by some that 
the sequence of the bases in the DNA-RNA chain determines the 
amino acids along the protein chain. 

Thus far the reader may not see the tremendous significance of these 
"basic science" observations. However, consider sickle-cell anemia. 
This disease is due to an abnormal hemoglobin which harmfully 
affects the properties of the red cell. Very recently, Ingram (7) dis- 
covered that the abnormality consists only in the replacement of one 
glutamic acid residue by a valine — one of about 300 such amino-acid 
molecules in one of two identical halves of the hemoglobin molecule. 
This seemingly minor chemical change suggests a single mutation in 
the hemoglobin gene. 

How much more lies just ahead in what is molecular biology today 
and medicine tomorrow ? 

VIRUSES AND CANCER 

That viruses and cancer may be related is an old observation. Bor- 
rel suggested this in 1903 (8), and Eous (9) proved it a few years 
later. Viruses are now known to be found in such diverse neoplasia 
as human warts, fowl leukemia, rabbit papilloma, and milk-trans- 
mitted manmiary cancer of mice (10). 

Another interesting observation is the transformation of normal 
cells in tissue culture to tumor cells after introduction of sarcoma 
virus (11). 

Many temporarily effective anticancer agents have been shown to 
affect nucleotide metabolism, and it appears that the rates of DNA 
S5mthesis and mitotic activity are parallel (12). Indeed, Cohen and 
Barner (13) have shown that cells (including bacteria) can be killed 
when DNA synthesis is blocked, even though UNA and protein 
metabolism may be mialtered. 

Because relatively pure nucleic acid preparations which possess 
virus activity have been obtained, Stanley suggested (14) that "it 
would now appear wise to revise the generally accepted definition 
of a virus to include nucleic acids and perhaps also to include repli- 
cating structures wliich do not evidence infectivity in the usual sense. 



6 The 1958 Nobel Prize for Chemistry was awarded to Frederick Sanger, of Cambridge, 
England, for working out the amlno-acld sequence of Insulin. 



VIROLOGY — LILLY RESEARCH LABORATORIES 529 

because normally they are duplicated only once or a minimal number 
of times during each cell division and may never leave the cell during 
many generations. Such a viral nucleic acid might temporarily ap- 
pear to be a part of, or associated with, the genetic apparatus of the 
cell, but be subject to chemical or physical stimulation or shock which 
could cause it to mature, increase greatly its rate of replication, per- 
haps mutate, but in any case to separate and act as an independent 
functional unit." 

DIAGNOSIS 

At one time a diagnosis of virus disease was made by "exclusion" 
(i.e., no bacteria as cause), but it is now possible to apply a new 
method — tissue culture. This teclmic has been a major stimulus to 
the recent growth of virology. 

A tiny piece of living tissue is placed in a bottle or tube together 
with a nutrient medium and antibiotics. It is the advent of antibi- 
otics, which inhibit the growth of contaminating bacteria without 
affecting tissue cells, that has permitted the rapid growth of this 
technic in many laboratories. Tissue cells are now grown in test tubes, 
either newly obtained from tissues or from long-maintained strains. 

A particular virus will grow better in some types of cells than in 
others ; for example, adenoviruses are more readily isolated in HeLa 
cells (originally obtained from a case of human cervical carcinoma) 
than in cells from a monkey's kidney. This is akin to the phenomena 
of specific differential media used commonly in bacteriology. 

In addition, the changes produced by different viruses vary. For 
instance, poliomyelitis virus invades individual cells widely ; measles 
produces more localized lesions, and large masses may result from the 
apparent fusion of cells. Indeed, a plaquelike area of destruction 
can be obtained by a teclmic recently described (15). This, too, aids 
in diagnosis. 

Another technic of identification makes use of tissue culture. If 
serum containing antibodies against a specific virus is added to a 
tissue-culture broth, growth of the virus is neutralized. By use of 
this tissue-culture virus-neutralization test, a serum can be tested 
for its antibody content; and, through the use of known serum, un- 
known viruses may be identified. 

A striking and colorful advance in this field has resulted from 
the technic of labeling antibodies with a fluorescing substance which 
can be seen under the fluorescence microscope. This method permits 
the localization of antibodies (and hence antigens) in tissues. The 
work of Coons and Kaplan (16) has led to methods which enable 
investigators to localize antigens (e.g., virus material) to the indi- 
vidual cells. In fact, one can determine whether virus is in the nucleus 
or cytoplasm or both. By virtue of the specificity of the antigen- 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

antibody reaction, the technic has been extended to study sites of 
antibody formation. 

In simple terms, the tissue under study is covered by antibody- con- 
taining material, e.g., appropriate serum. Previously, the antibody 
was treated with a fluorescent dye. After a time the antibody is 
washed away. Since antigen will bind the specific antibody, fluores- 
cent material will remain fixed only at those locations where antigen 
is present. Many factors, such as polymerization and pH, affect the 
reaction and may alter the appearance under the fluorescence micro- 
scope. 

This method has been used by several workers for the demonstration 
of protein antigens, bacterial polysaccharides, viruses, rickettsiae, and 
plasma protein in tissues and cells. 

Plate 4, figures 1-4, demonstrate a technic for studying the distri- 
bution of nucleic acids in normal and virus-infected cells and have 
been supplied by Dr. Janet S. F. Niven and Dr. J. A. Armstrong, of 
the National Institute for Medical Eesearch, London (17). The 
material, either fixed 3/* sections or tissue-culture cells, is immersed in 
acid buffer (^H 2.7) and transferred to a 1 : 2,000 solution of acridine 
orange in the same buffer for half an hour. After it is washed in 
buffer, the specimen is mounted, sealed to prevent drying, and ex- 
amined under the fluorescence microscope utilizing the blue-violet 
region of the spectrum. Structures containing DNA emit a bright 
greenish-yellow fluorescence, whereas RNA-containing material gives 
a flame-red color. 

FACTORS INFLUENCING VIRUS ACTIVITY 

We know that man has latent in various tissues throughout his 
body many viruses which were unloiown to us a few years ago, but we 
do not know what many of these are doing there ( 18) . We know that 
viruses can persist in their host for generations in either an infectious 
or a noninfectious form. They can mutate to form new strains and 
cause different disease symptoms. Viruses may have different effects, 
depending on the age, genetics, and state of nutrition and hormonal 
balance of the host ( 14) . 

The conversion of a virus from a latent to an active state may be 
effected by seasonal factors. For instance, there is a tendency for 
polio to occur in the summertime or for sun and wind, somehow re- 
lated to the seasons, to influence the emergence of herpetic lesions. 
There are also hormonal factors, such as those associated with preg- 
nancy, that influence whether or not polio will result in a paralysis. 

Sometimes a bacterial infection can influence the conversion of 
latent virus to active virus (for example, the appearance of herpes 
simplex accompanying meningococcus meningitis or pneumococcus 



VIROLOGY — LILLY RESEARCH LABORATORIES 531 

pneumonia). Evidence has also been uncovered which suggests that 
a bacterial infection of the lung and possibly the upper part of the 
respiratory tract may cause the influenza virus, present in the latent 
state, to emerge in an active form. This is the reverse of what is 
usually believed to occur, namely, that influenza virus infections pre- 
cipitate bacterial infections. It is possible that both aspects may 
occur (19). 

RECOVERY FROM VIRUS DISEASE 

During the acute phase when lesions and infected tissues are present, 
the concentration of virus particles is constant and often at a high 
level. In most virus diseases, recovery is the rule, although unfortu- 
nate sequelae may persist after some. Kinetic studies have shown that 
a decline in virus concentration precedes a resolution of the lesions. 
The mechanisms of recovery are essentially unlmown and have been 
rarely studied. This is because laboratories tend to use fatal infec- 
tions for their models. 

The development of circulating antibodies has little, if any, part in 
recovery. Efforts to foster recovery by use of immune serum that 
contains antibodies have been unsuccessful. This is true even though 
in some instances there is a correlation between the appearance of 
antibodies and signs of recovery. At least there is no evidence of a 
causal relationship between these two phenomena. Patients with 
agamma-globulinemia, who are unable to produce antibodies against 
an infecting agent, appear to recover from some virus diseases as 
readily and as promptly as do normal persons (20). "Important as 
specific antibodies are in conferring immunity against certain virus 
diseases as well as in preventing migration [of virus] through the blood 
to uninfected tissues, there is no adequate evidence that they can alter 
the course of an established virus disease" (20) . 

We have seen that viruses are basic particles of living matter. They 
bear a resemblance to "genes" and produce their ill effects by altering 
cellular activities. How are these intracellular interferences reflected 
in human disease ? 

REFERENCES 

1. Smith, K. M. The virus, life's enemy. New York, 1940. 

2. DuBOS, R. J. Infection into disease. Prospectives in Biol, and Med., vol. 

1, summer 1958. 

3. Sanders, F. K. The multiplication of animal viruses. In Ciba Foundation 

Symposium on the Nature of Viruses, ed. G. E, W. Wolstenholme and 
E. O. P. Millar. Boston, 1957. 

4. LwoFF, A. ; DuLBECco, R. ; Vogt, M. ; and Lwoff, M. Kinetics of the re- 

lease of poliomyelitis virus from single cells. Virology, vol. 1, 1955. 

5. Chanteenne, H. Newer developments in relation to protein biosynthesis. 

Ann. Rev. Biochem., vol. 27, 1958. 

6. Peeutz, M. F. Some recent advances in molecular biology. Endeavour, voL 

17, October, 1958. 



532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

7. Ingram, V. M. Gene mutations in human haemoglobin: The chemical dif- 

ference between normal and sickle cell haemoglobin. Nature (London), 
VOL 180, 1957. 

8. BoREEL, A. Epith^lioses infectieuses et epitheliomas. Ann. Inst. Pasteur, 

vol. 17, 1903. 

9. Rous, P. Transmission of a malignant new growth by means of a cell-free 

filtrate. Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc, vol. 56, 1911. 

10. BiTTNER, J. J. Some possible effects of nursing on the mammary gland 

tumor incidence in mice. Science, vol. 84, 1936. 

11. Manakee, R. a., and Groups, V. Discrete foci of altered chicken embryo 

cells associated with Rous sarcoma virus in tissue culture. Virology, vol. 
2, 1956. 

12. Skipper, H. E., and Bennett, L. L., Jr. Biochemistry of cancer. Ann. Rev. 

Biochem., voL 27, 1958. 

13. Cohen, S. S., and Barner, H. D. The death of bacteria as a function of 

unbalanced growth. Pediatries, vol. 16, 1955. 

14. Stanley, W. M. The potential significance of nucleic acids and nucleo- 

proteins of specific composition in malignancy. Texas Rep. Biol, and Med., 
vol. 15, 1957. 

15. HsiUNG, G. D., and Melnick, J. L. Orphan viruses of man and animals. 

Ann. New York Acad. Sci., vol. 70, June 3, 1958. 

16. Coons, A. H., and Kaplan, M. H. Localization of antigen in tissue cells. 

II. Improvements m a method for the detection of antigen by means of 
fluorescent antibody. Journ. Exper. Med., vol. 91, 1950. 

17. Armstrong, J. A., and Niven, J. S. F. Histochemical observations on cellu- 

lar and virus nucleic acids. Nature (London), vol. 180, 1957. 

18. HuEBNER, R. J. Viruses in search of disease. Ann. New York Acad. Sci., 

vol. 67, 1957. 

19. Salk, J. E. Mechanisms of convalescent immunity and how it may be stim- 

ulated. In The Dynamics of Virus and Rickettsial Infections, ed. F. W. 
Hartman, F. L. HorsfaU, Jr., and J. G. Kidd. New York, 1954. 

20. HORSFALL, F. L., Jr., and Tamm, I. Chemotherapy of viral and rickettsial 

diseases. Ann. Rev. Microbiol., vol. 11, 1957. 



In Search of a Home^ 

FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND (1789-1790) 



By H. E. Maude 

Senior Fellow in Pacific History 
The Australian National University 



[With 1 plate] 



So MUCH FACT aiid fiction have been written about the mutiny on 
His Majesty's armed vessel Bounty^ and the vicissitudes of the Anglo- 
Polynesian settlement on Pitcaim Island which resulted from it, that 
it might well seem that everything that can be said on the subject 
must have been long since placed on record. 

This would not be true, however, of any time in Pitcairn's history, 
for the main chroniclers^ were either primarily concerned with the 
Bligh versus Christian controversy or in painting an edifying pic- 
ture of moral regeneration : for these purposes they were content to 
use, as their source material, virtually nothing except the reports or 
published narratives of a few naval officers, in one or two instances 
adding traditional information obtained from the islanders of the 
second generation. 

This generalization has particular application to the months im- 
mediately succeeding the mutiny itself, concerning which the naval 
officers tell us little, and that recorded from one informant only [ Jolin 
Adams] long after the events themselves. 

Despite its importance to any accurate understandmg of subsequent 
Pitcairn history, this period is invariably dismissed in a few para- 
graphs, in which the dearth of fact may be disguised by pious observa- 
tions on such themes as the alleged deterioration in Fletcher 
Christian's character. 

Yet these months were actually packed with mcidents : the first five 
witnessing the establishment of the settlement on Tubuai, its subso- 



1 Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Polynesian Society, vol. 67, No. 2, 
June 1958. 

''The three classics on Pitcairn history are by Barrow (1831), Murray (1853), and 
Lady Belcher (1870). Other standard books by Brodle (1851), Young (1S94), and 
Shapiro (1936) add nothing fresh on the presettlement period. The only modern historian 
to make any significant use of new source material Is Mackaness (1931), but his account 
of postmutlny events Is naturally only Incidental to his main theme. 

533 



534 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

quent abandonment and the defection of the majority of Chris- 
tian's party ; and the last four a voyage in the Bounty for those who 
remained that ranks with the epics of Pacific exploration, and led to 
the discovery of one of the principal islands in the South Seas. 

Tliat it is now possible to tell tliis story for tlie first time is due to 
two fairly recent discoveries (or more properly rediscoveries) : the 
Journal of James Morrison, covering the Tubuai period, and the two 
narratives of Teehuteatuaonoa, or Jenny, the wife of Isaac Martin, for 
the voyage to Pitcaim. 

Morrison's Journal was seen and cited by both Barrow and Lady 
Belcher, but the quotations are meager and not always scrupulously 
reproduced. After Lady Belcher's death the manuscript disappeared 
and, despite all efforts to trace its whereabouts, it was not until about 
1930 that it was discovered safely deposited in the Mitchell Library 
at Sydney : it has now been published (Morrison, 1935) . 

Morrison, who was one of the Bounty''^ crew who elected to remain 
in Tahiti, evidently prepared this journal from notes made at the 
time. It is possible to verify the correctness of so many of his state- 
ments from other sources that one is left in no doubt as to its relia- 
bility, at least where his personal interests are not concerned. 

Owen Eutter, in his introduction to the published edition, pays 
tribute to "the meticulous detail, the niceness of observation and the 
accuracy of the dates" in the journal; and his encomiums are well 
earned, for Morrison was a bom observer and recorder with a genuine 
and sympathetic interest in the island peoples, whether on Tahiti or 
Tubuai. With but little training he would have made a first-rate 
anthropologist. 

Jenny was also in her way a remarkable character. Described as 
"a good looking woman in her time," she went with John Adams to 
Tubuai and was tattooed by him AS/1789 on her left arm.^ She 
landed on Pitcaim as Isaac Martin's wife but was never reconciled to 
life there, possibly because she had no children of her own to com- 
loensate for the loss of her relatives and friends on Tahiti. 

After the death of her husband, Jenny led the abortive attempt 
of the women to leave Pitcairn in a boat, and finally succeeded in 
getting away by the whaler Sultan in 1817. On her return to Tahiti 
she gave two separate accounts of her experiences; one published in 
the Sydney Gazette for July 17, 1819 (Teehuteatuaonoa, 1819),* and 
the second in the Bengal Eurharu for October 2, 1826 (Teehuteatua- 
onoa, 1826).= She was also interviewed by Kotzebue in March 1824, 



* John Adams signed on the Bounty as Alexander Smith, but changed to his proper name 
after Folger's visit to Pitcairn in 1808. 

* This is an entirely different account from her later narrative, though not inconsistent 
with it, and is concerned for the main part with the period after the settlement. 

B An account dictated to the Rev. Henry Nott In the presence of Capt. Peter Dillon and 
communicated by the latter verbatim to the Bengal Hurkaru. 



Plate 1 






Smithsonian Report, 1959— Maude 

/ ' ' , 

^ Mi ^...^.A/<. ...',. (I:/' f^ "■'•' '^^■' >" '•; '»"'>>i-'^ 



-«K- 









'■' ■■ v^- 






.-/ //.v ///■'// /.•^/'.^ 



7 



/ ,.». •jlSll'i Jtc^fm 



/. 



A page from the manuscript journal of James Morrison, boatswain's mate of the 
Bouyity, recording the events immediately following the vessel's arrival at Tubuai. 
(From the original in the Mitchell Library, Sydney.) 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 535 

who said that she "spoke tolerably good English, but with a foreign 
accent." (Kotzebue, 1830, vol. 1, p. 225 ff.) 

Jenny's narratives are not only consistent with each other, but in 
all cases where they can be checked from other material they have 
j:)roved to be reliable. One has to remember that her interests were 
those of a woman, and a Tahitian, but her testimony is, in general, 
more trustworthy than that of Adams, who was apt to be careless with 
his facts even when not deliberately misleading ; and she gives the best 
account we possess of events from the date of the final departure from 
Tahiti in September 1789, to Folger's discoveiy of the Pitcairn settle- 
ment in 1808. 

In the following pages I have tried to piece together the story of 
the Bounty mutineers to the day of their landing on Pitcairn, using 
first Morrison and later Jenny as the main sources of information, but 
freely checking and amplifying by recourse to evei-y other source that 
has come to light as a result of some years of delving into Pitcairn 
history, and 9 months spent on the island itself. 

TRIAL AND ERROR ON TUBUAI 

With the details of the mutiny which took place on the Bounty on 
the morning of April 28, 1789, we are not concerned here. (The best 
account is in Mackaness, 1931.) Nearly 170 years later the protago- 
nists of Bligh and Christian are still engaged in apportioning the 
blame ; an exercise which one feels at times tells us more about the 
personality of the writer than the characters and motives of the two 
opponents. 

Our narrative commences as Bligh was cast adrift, 10 leagues south- 
west of Tofua, one of the Tonga Islands, to the sound of "Huzza for 
Otaheite" from the mutineers (Bligh, 1937, vol. 2, p. 122). Even 
these huzzas have been denied Bligh by his opponents (Barrow, 1914 
ed., p. 100; Mackaness, 1931, p. 172, quoting Lady Belcher), on the 
grounds that no one else appeared to have heard them. His vindica- 
tion, however, comes from Adams himself, who told Buffett that when 
the mutiny occurred "he was sleeping m his hammock, but as soon as 
he heard the proposal he exclaimed 'Hurrah for Otaheite.'" (Buf- 
fett, 1846, p. 2.) « 

Christian now took charge and, after sounding the views of the 
25 men remaining on the Bounty, determined to make for Tubuai, in 
the Austral Group, with a view to prospecting it as their possible fu- 
ture home, before calling at Tahiti for provisioning. Tubuai had 



• See also Adams's statement to Beechey that as the launch, with Bligh on board, was 
being cast oflf "Immediately 'Huzza for Otaheite!' echoed throughout the Bounty" 
(Beechey, 1831, vol. 1, p. 76). 

536608—60 36 



536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

been discovered by Captain Cook in 1777 but no landing made, and 
to Christian, reading the account in the narrative of Cook's voyages 
in Bligh's cabin (Shillibeer, 1817, pp. 97-98), it seemed the best island 
to select for a retreat : he was never under any illusion as to his prob- 
able fate if he remained on Tahiti itself. The voyage took a month, 
the time being employed in clearing the great cabin of its breadfruit 
plants (except for a few kept for planting on Tubuai) and in making 
a uniform for all hands out of old studding sails, as Christian believed 
that wearing it impressed the natives. He himself moved into Bligh's 
cabin. 

A visit of inspection. — The reception at Tubuai was anything but 
encouraging. The natives, seeing so few on board surrounded by so 
many desirable possessions and being ignorant of the power of fire- 
arms, commenced threatening and thieving while the ship's cutter 
was still examining the passage through the reef. The following 
day, the Bounty being anchored inside the lagoon, 18 girls were sent on 
board as decoys, "all yomig and handsome having fine long hair which 
reached their Waists in waving ringlets" (Morrison, 1935, p. 49),^ 
accompanied by 5 men who soon commenced stealing whatever they 
could lay their hands on. Fifty canoes filled with warriors, complete 
with cords for securing the mutineers when captured, came up on the 
other side and, much against his will, Christian was compelled to fire 
on them to avert a general attack. He learned later that the natives 
lost 11 men and a woman in this encounter, the site of which was 
christened Bloody Bay. 

Despite this initial discouragement. Christian continued for two 
more days in an attempt to conciliate the islanders by leaving 
presents in their now deserted homes — ^but they were not to be drawn. 
His visits ashore, however, confirmed him in his opinion of the suit- 
ability of Tubuai for settlement: its size (5 miles by 3) was scarcely 
sufficient to attract visitors, especially when the large and more 
fertile island of Tahiti was only 300 miles away; it had a poor 
anchorage and only one passage into the lagoon navigable by ships, 
and its population was thought to be small enough ^ to be propitiated 
into friendship or overawed into submission. 



' Morrison Is the main authority for the whole Tubuai episode : a few subsidiary checks, 
however, are obtainable from the accounts of eyewitnesses given in Edwards and Hamilton, 
1915, pp. 34-38 ; Henry, 1928, pp. 26-28 ; Heywood's letter reproduced In Barrow, 1914 ed., 
pp. 194-196 ; Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826 ; Lee, 1920, pp. 95-97 ; and two versions by John 
Adams In Beechey, 1831, vol. 1, pp. 76-80, and Moprenhout, 1837, vol. 2, pp. 288-292. 

8 It was estimated to have been 900 in 1821, but Morrison's claim that it was 3,000 In 
1789 is consistent with the other figures given in the course of his narrative. Venereal 
disease, which is said to have caused many deaths, was almost certainly introduced by the 
mutineers, 11 of whom (Including Christian, Adams, Quintal, and Brown) had been treated 
during the course of the voyage: 9 of these after the vessel's arrival at Tahiti (Smith, 
1936, pp. 216-217). In 1821-23 an epidemic reduced the population to 300 (Calllot, 
1909, p. 71; Aitkin, 1930, p. 4; Montgomery, 1831, vol. 2, pp. 75-76). It has now re- 
covered to over 1,000, partly through immigration from other Islands. 



FROM THE MUTLNTY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — ^MAUDE 537 

Return to Tahiti. — Wliile there was plenty of coconut, breadfruit, 
and banana trees, as well as taro, on Tubuai, no livestock could be 
found, and this determined Christian to press on to Tahiti unmedi- 
ately to procure a cargo of pigs, goats, and chickens, together with 
some women as companions and men to assist in raising crops and act 
as interpreters with the local population : even Christian's knowledge 
of Tahitian had proved insufficient for effective communication, and 
the others spoke hardly a word. 

Despite the evidence of Fryer (Rutter, 1931, pp. 32-33) that only 
Stewart and Morrison (and of Adams to Beechey [Beechey, 1831, 
vol. 1, p. 72] that only Quintal) had any serious feminine attach- 
ments at Tahiti, it is clear that virtually every member of the 
Bounty'''^ crew, officers as well as men, had contracted some sort of 
alliance with a Tahitian taio^ or friend. And if Christian was busy 
with the over-all plan of settlement, Adams, in a statement made just 
before his death to Moerenhout, indicates what was uppermost in the 
minds of most of the rest: "We lacked women; and, remembering 
Tahiti, where all of us had made intimate friendships, we decided to 
return there, so that we could each obtain one" (Moerenhout, 1837, 
vol. 2, p. 289). 

Leaving Tubuai on May 31, the Bounty anchored in Matavai Bay 
on June 6, where everyone seemed glad to see them back and evinced 
little curiosity as to the reason for their unexpected return. To those 
who inquired, Christian explained that they had met Captain Cook, 
who had taken Bligh and the others with the breadfruit plants and 
sent him back to obtain a supply of animals to stock a settlement 
which he was making on Aitutaki (which he described as being in 
New Holland ! ) : Bligh had fortunately forbidden his crew to mention 
Cook's death, as had Watts before him. 

This story apparently satisfied everybody and, business being brisk, 
by June 16 Christian had obtained some 460 pigs, 50 goats, and a 
number of chickens ; together with a bull and a cow left by Cook, and 
a few dogs and cats for good measure. About 28 Tahitians^ also 
accompanied the expedition, most of them stowaways who only ap- 
peared when it was too late to return them ashore. Among them was 
Plitihiti, a young chief from Borabora, and an expert shot, who had 
sailed with Cook to Tonga, New Zealand, the Antarctic, and the 
Marquesas in 1773-1774.^° No one seemed worried when told that 
they would never see Tahiti again. 

In addition, there were consorts for several of the Europeans — 
Mauatea (Isabella) with Fletcher Christian, Teehuteatuaonoa 

• According to Adams ; Morrison's figure la 9 men, 10 women, 8 boys and a girl. 

^^Hltlhltl, an Insatiable traveler, was later to accompany Bligh on his second expedi- 
tion In the Providence, having been engaged to assist the botanist In taking care of the 
breadfruit (Henry, 1928, pp. 27, 31). 



538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

(Jenny) with John Adams (Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826), Mary with 
Thomas Mcintosh (Lee, 1920, pp. 95-96) — ^but alas, not enough, for 
as Adams said later : "We did not find as many women as we wanted. 
Nine only came on board; and with them, eight men and about ten 
boys. After some ineffective efforts to persuade more women to 
follow us, we returned to Tubuai" (Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 2, pp. 289- 
290). They reached it on June 23. 

7'uhuai in 1789. — In contrast to the first, the second visit to Tubuai 
showed some promise of being a success ; the natives were miexpectedly 
peaceful and friendly and the Tahitians, who soon mastered the local 
dialect, were able to facilitate good relations. 

Wliile the pre-European political organization of Tubuai has never 
been adequately studied, it is now possible, from Morrison and other 
sources, to reconstruct the main features as they existed at the time of 
the Bounty'^s visit." The island was then divided into three districts, 
each under its chief : 

(i) Toerauetoru (now Mataura) — centered on the north coast 

opposite the lagoon entrance — under the chief Hiterire^^; 

(ii) Natieva (now Taahuaia) — on the northeast coast — under 

Tahuhuatama; and 
(iii) Paorani (now deserted) — inland and to the east of Na- 
tieva — under Tinarou. 
Tahuhuatama, who was old, had apparently handed over most of his 
functions to his son, Taroatohoa ; as had Hiterire to Tamatoa, prob- 
ably for the same reason. 

Tamatoa's (or Iliterire's) domain ^^ was by far the largest and ex- 
tended over Nahitorono (now Mahu) in the south, and possibly over 
the district of Tuporo (now Hanamea) on the west coast; or, in other 
words, the whole western half of the island. The dynasty had been 
founded by his great-great-grandfather, a chief on Raiatea (from 
whom the royal family on Tahiti were also descended [Morrison, 
1935, pp. 73-74 ; Caillot, 1910, p. 439] ) , who had been blown there in a 
storm and accepted as overlord by the few people then living on the 
island, themselves fairly recent arrivals from Rurutu and Raivavae or, 
according to Caillot, 1910, p. 438, from Rimitara. 

Despite maiTiage alliances (Tinarou was married to Tahuhua- 
tama's sister) warfare between the districts was more or less endemic 



" By far the best account of Tubuai society Is given In Morrison, 1935, pp. 48-74. Mor- 
rison was an exceptionally gifted observer and it is unfortunate that his narrative was 
not available to Aitkin, But see also Montgomery, 1831, vol. 2, pp. 75-76 ; Ellis, 1831, 
vol. 3, pp. 383-387 ; Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 1, p. 149 ; Aitkin, 1930, passim, but particularly 
pp. 30-33. 

" I have modernized some of Morrison's orthography. In particular, and at the sug- 
gestion of Dr. Kenneth P. Emory, of the Bernlce P. Bishop Museum, the name Taroatchoa 
(an impossible sound in the Tubuaian dialect) is written as Taroatohoa. 

13 Tamatoa's relation to Hiterire Is obscure but he was evidently, in effect, the executive 
power. 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — MAUDE 539 

until the year 1822 when Nott, the missionary, succeeded in negotiat- 
ing a final peace between Tamatoa, whom he recognized as "by heredi- 
tary right, the King of the island," and Tahuhuatama. (Ellis, 1831, 
vol. 3, pp. 385-387.) The dynasties then appear to have united and 
Tamatoa IV, who was buried in the marae at Peetau, near Natieva, 
was also known as Tahuhuatama. In 1844 the island was governed 
by a Tamatoa, and his descendants continued to reign mitil the island 
became a French possession in 1880 (Aitkin, 1930, pp. 121-123). 

Fort George. — Christian and Tamatoa were soon on terms of friend- 
ship, exchanging names and presents at a formal ceremony. Blame 
for the hostility shown on the first visit was put on Tinarou and his 
followers, who together with almost the entire population of the is- 
land had congregated at Bloody Bay when the Bounty appeared at 
the entrance to the lagoon: after the ship's departure they left again 
for their own territory. An epidemic which immediately followed 
the visit was ascribed to the wrath of the gods at their having attacked 
the vessel ; a factor which no doubt helped to bring about the better 
reception experienced on their return from Tahiti. 

Unfortunately, however, the only suitable land which Christian 
could find for his proposed settlement was 4 miles to the east of the 
reef passage, or well within Tahuhuatama's territory. On a visit 
there he was warmly greeted by Taroatohoa and offered his choice of 
any land he desired ; names were again exchanged as a token of friend- 
ship, and indeed Taroatohoa and his family never wavered in their 
loyalty to Christian right up to the day of his departure. 

But this action brought with it the enmity of Tamatoa, who 
promptly made an alliance with Tinarou, by which both agreed to 
boycott the Europeans, who for their part were willing and anxious 
to engage in barter. The supply of provisions was thus greatly 
curtailed, as Taroatohoa's district (the smallest of the three) could 
not supply enough to satisfy their requirements, and measures had 
to be taken to conserve the remaining ship's stores and the livestock 
brought from Tahiti. Nevertheless, Christian pressed on with his 
plans for settlement, and the Bounty was warped up through the 
shoal lagoon with some difficulty and anchored off Natieva. (See 
map, fig. 1.) 

The land required for the proposed colony was purchased from 
Taroatohoa for a quantity of red feathers (Buffett, 1846, p. 2) . Chris- 
tian had fortunately brought a supply of these with him from Tahiti, 
as they proved to be much in demand on Tubuai, whereas no interest 
was shown in the axes and other iron tools which on most islands 
were preferred above all other goods except muskets. Indeed, it was 
hard to find any European article which the Tubuai people would 
acknowledge as better than their own, even cloth being rejected as 



540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




< 

S 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 541 

inferior to their glazed, or varnished, tapa^ which was considered 
to be more rainproof. The rest of the red feathers and also some 
Tahiti ta-pa^ which if not higlily regarded proved at least acceptable, 
were divided up amongst the Europeans in the hope of stimulating 
trade in local produce. 

On July 18 work commenced ashore in earnest; parties were detailed 
to prepare spades, hoes, and mattocks, to clear ground and plant yams, 
while the mam body set to work on the construction of a fortress. 
This was to consist of walls 18 feet thick at the base, surrounded by 
a moat 18 feet wide by 20 feet deep crossed by a drawbridge, with 
four-pounders at each corner and swivel guns on each side, the whole 
measuring an area of 100 square yards including the moat. 

Though it never reached these ambitious dimensions. Fort George, 
as it was called, must have been a formidable edifice even in its un- 
completed state. Forty years later Moerenhout was shown the ruins 
(Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 1, p. 149), which were still standing in 1902, 
when they were examined by Seale, who wrote : 

The fort consists of the ordinary military square of earth work thrown up 
to the heights of perhaps 6-7 feet. Its open side faces the sea, about 300 feet 
distant ; the size of the fort is 125 feet by 120 feet [see diagram, fig. 2]. It is now 
overgrown with trees and brush and a native house is in the open side (Seale, 
MS. 1902). 

Christian worked as hard as anyone on this unfamiliar task, which 
was intended to defend the community mainly against the natives, 
as shown by the fact that the side facing the shore was never com- 
pleted, but also from an attack by any European vessel sent to find 
them. Meanwhile, his difficulties were increasing: it was hard, for 
instance, to maintain discipline, and the ship had hardly been an- 
chored before Sumner and Quintal had to be punished for going 
ashore without leave, asserting that "we are now our own Masters." 
Replying that he would show them who was Master, Christian 
promptly put them in irons at the point of a pistol. 

Native relations. — To prevent further trouble from this cause two 
men were allowed to sleep ashore each night (and as many as wanted 
could go on Sundays) . Whereupon Tinarou's women set to work to 
entice them into his territory, where his men proceeded to take their 
clothes. 

On July 25 a party collecting coconuts was ambushed. A few days 
later John Adams, clad only in a shirt, had to be rescued from 
Tinarou's own house. Unlike others, the girl he had followed proved 
a genuine friend, for she played no part in his discomfiture and indeed 
followed him back to the ship, fearing reprisals from her own people : 
one presumes this was after Jenny had left him for Isaac Martin. 

Despite what he probably felt to be unjustified provocation, Chris- 
tian continued his policy of conciliation. Messengers were sent to 



542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




125 ffc 



4- 

^^*^ T^nchorage 




Native ^1U ["] 



BOUNTY'-^*- ^^^" -*- 




Figure 2. — Scale's diagram of Fort George. 

Tinarou asking for the return of articles stolen and offering friend- 
ship; and it was only when these had come back rebuffed that the 
chief's "Household Gods" were removed and his house burnt down. 

On September 2 Tinarou and his followers arrived loaded with 
presents and suing for peace and the return of his gods. But it was 
all treachery ; and might well have succeeded if one of the Tahitian 
boys had not warned Christian in time. 

Failure of an exjjeriment. — Throughout all this excitement Tahu- 
huatama and his family continued to be friendly, watching the 
Tahitian heiva and showing their own dances in return. Even the 
friendly natives, however, would not allow their women to join the 
Europeans "tho they had no objection to their Sleeping with them at 
their own houses." 

To the mutineers this was the final straw. The denouement is well 
summed up by Morrison : 

[They] began to Murmer, and Insisted that Mr. Christian would head them, 
and bring the Weomen in to live with them by force and refused to do any more 
work till evry man had a Wife, and as Mr. Christians desire was to perswade 
rather then force them, He positively refused to have any thing to do with 
such an absurd demand. Three Days were Spent in debate, and having nothing 
to employ themselves in, they demanded more Grog this he also refused, when 
they broke the lock of the Spirit room and took it by force (Morrison, 1935, 
p. 60). 

Christian could do nothing in the face of this general strike, and on 
September 10 he was forced to call a meeting to consider future plans. 
After much argument, and against his strong advice, it was at length 
decided by 16 votes to 9 that they should "go to Tahiti and there 
Seperate, where they might get Weomen without force." It was 
agreed that those who elected to remain on Tahiti should be given 
arms, ammunition, and a fair share of everything on the Bounty, 
while Christian's party should have the ship "in a proper Condition 
to go to Sea, with Her Sails Tackle and furniture." Of the 18 who 
voted for Tahiti not all were actuated by the same reasons : the major- 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — MAUDE 543 

ity were typically improvident seamen, content to enjoy today; but 
at least three of them, Hej^wood, Stewart, and Morrison, who con- 
sidered that they were not implicated in the mutiny and had already 
planned to escape from Tubuai, regarded the move as the means by 
which they might eventually hope to return to England. 

Christian's brother Edward, the distinguished jurist, gives a 
dramatic accomit of the scene in the great cabin of the Bounty when, 
realizing that the feeling of the meeting was against him, he made 
his last plea before the vote was taken : 

Gentlemen, I will carry you, and laud you, wherever you please. I desire 
none to stay with me, but I have one favour to request, that you will grant 
me the ship, tie the foresail, and give me a few gallons of water, and 
leave me to run before the wind, and I shall land upon the first island the 
ship drives to. I have done such an act that I cannot stay at Otaheite. I 
will never live where I may be carried home to be a disgrace to my family. 

It is entirely consistent with Christian's character to suppose that 
he would have done just this. But he was not to be put to the 
test, for his loyal companion Edward Young, followed by seven of 
the seamen, gave their votes to him, with the promise: "We shall 
never leave you, Mr. Christian, go where you will." ^* 

The -final hattle. — Both Adams and Jenny speak of a further battle. 
According to the former, this was precipitated by a rumor that 
the natives were to be exterminated and that the moat was being 
dug to bury them in, but in Jenny's version it was due to a con- 
spiracy between one of the Tahitians and the Tubuai people to take 
the ship, murder the crew and divide their property : she adds that 
Christian's wife, who told her husband of the plot, never disclosed 
that one of her own countrymen was at the bottom of it (Beechey, 
1831, vol. 1, p. 78 ; Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826) . 

A more probable reason for the fighting that occurred was, how- 
ever, given by the Tubuai natives themselves, who asserted that it 
was due to attempts made by the Tahitians, under Christian's orders, 
to round up the livestock which had been landed, and in particular 
the 200 pigs which had been let loose on the island. These must have 
initially played havoc in the plantations, but the people had begun 
to appreciate their value, and resented their removal. 

In the skirmish which ensued : 

The natives were numerous, and fought with great courage, forcing the 
mutineers to avail themselves of a rising ground, where, with their superior 
skill, the advantage of fire-arms, and the aid of the Otaheiteans, who fought 



"Edward Christian In the Appendix to Barney (1794), quoted by Rutter (1931, p. 35). 
Christian's Information was obtained, together with other evidence, from Heywood, Mor- 
rison, Muspratt, Coleman, M'Intosh, and Byrn, all of whom were present at the meeting. 
While, as Bligh points out, these were men of varying degrees of credit, and no indication 
is given as to the particular Information obtained from each, I submit that In this Instance, 
where his narrative tells if anything against his brother, we can accept It as substantially 
reliable. 



544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

bravely ou this occasion, they at last came off victorious, with only one or two 
of themselves wounded, whilst the dead bodies of the Toobouaians covered the 
spot, and were afterwards thrown up in three or four heaps (Wilson, 1799, pp. 
51-52). 

In this, and the various other disputes with the mutineers, the Tubuai 
people were said to have lost nearly a hundred men. It can scarcely 
be wondered that as a result their attitude toward Europeans became 
so hostile that Captain Wilson, of the missionary ship Dujf, feared 
to land there in 1797. 

Postmortem. — It is not difficult to sense, in retrospect, that the 
Tubuai experiment never could have succeeded on the lines intended 
by Christian: a small enclave of whites subsisting as a cooperative 
agricultural commmiity in the middle of a virile native society. 

Even if the entire body of immigrant Europeans had possessed the 
humanitarian views of Christian on native rights, it would have been 
difficult enough to maintain friendly relations with the faction-ridden 
inhabitants of a closely populated island where every inch of the area 
was owned and the most suitable areas occupied. 

But most of the mutineers had no conception at all of native rights, 
and even Christian, though he would not permit the forcible abduction 
of the island women, had to countenance the seizure of food supplies 
when sufficient could not be obtained by barter. 

Morrison mentions that the local priests, who had great authority, 
were alienated at an early stage. Not unreasonably, they — 

could not bear to see such superiority as the Euroi>eans in general usurp over 
those who differ from themselves, and became jealous of us with respect to their 
religious authority to which they saw that we not only refused to take notice 
of but even ridiculed, for this reason they used all the Means in their power to 
keep the Chiefs from making Friends, thinking perhaps that if we staid in the 
Island, their Consequence would be lessen'd, which In all probability would have 
been the Case (Morrison, 1935, p. 71). 

Conflict with the islanders was therefore inevitable, but it could 
probably have been postponed if Christian had not made the initial 
error of antagonizing Tamatoa, the most powerful chief on the island, 
by deliberately electing to settle in the territory of his rival. 

Had his explorations taken him west instead of east he might well 
have found suitable land for his purpose in the fertile area around 
Tuporo, which is largely isolated by swamps from the rest of Tubuai, 
where he could have lived with a minimum of contact, and consequent 
friction — but only for a time. Christian can hardly be blamed for the 
implacable antagonism of Tinarou, but the domain of this chief was 
situated at the other end of the island. Even the much-coveted women 
would presumably have arrived in due course, if the mutineers could 
have restrained their impatience, for the unmarried Tubuai girl had 
considerable freedom in bestowing her favors and it is unlikely that a 




< 



05 



Pi 



546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

sufficient number would not have come to appreciate the economic 
advantages of marriage with a European. 

The inevitable might thus have been delayed; but it could not have 
been prevented. It is impossible to believe that, with the prejudiced, 
ignorant, and unruly men who comprised most of his followers, 
Christian could have maintained a respect for native customary rights 
over any long period; and in point of fact, several of his party did 
not want the experiment to succeed if it should militate against their 
chances of escape to civilization. 

The history of other isolated Pacific islands invaded by parties of 
Europeans shows us that, if they stayed for any length of time, they 
either provoked an open conflict and were overwhelmed by nmnbers, 
as on Nauru and Abemama, or infiltrated into the villages, where they 
became beachcombers often barely distinguishable in their mode of 
life from the natives themselves. In islands not so isolated, such as 
Hawaii and Tahiti, this was not, of course, the case, since the constant 
introduction of new blood from visiting ships and the possibility of 
engaging in commercial pursuits enabled the formation of more stable 
immigrant groups. 

As it was, the occupation of Tubuai did not last long enough for 
either of these alternatives to eventuate, but ended in failure and with- 
drawal after a bare 3 months, before the fort or a single home had 
been completed ; and under the circumstances, this was probably the 
best ending that could have occurred. Christian had learned his les- 
son the hard way : that the only island on which he could safely make 
his future home must be one without any existing inhabitants. 

Tubuai, then, was foredoomed to be a failure; but it was a necessary 
one, for without the mistakes made and the experience gained there, 
Christian would never have appreciated the minimum requirements 
for successful colonization. The extent to which he made use of this 
experience on Pitcaim is another story, but the important point here 
is that without it to guide his choice the chances were decidedly 
against his ever even thinking of selecting that particular island, out 
of so many possibles, for his future home. 

As we shall discover from the remaining pages of this study, even 
with the necessary criteria now known, Pitcairn was far from being 
Christian's immediate or first choice. The corollary of Tubuai is thus 
seen to be the saga of the Bounty''^ four months of wandering "in 
search of a home." 

PITCAIRN AND THE VOYAGE THITHER 

Before leaving Tubuai on September 17 a younger brother of 
Taroatohoa, called Taroamiva, came on board with two of his friends, 
as he considered that his life was in danger ashore owing to his friend- 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — MAUDE 547 

sliip with Christian, who accordingly agreed to take them to Tahiti 
(Morrison, 1935, pp. 63-64). 

On the 20th tliey were under the lee of Mehetia, where the trade 
goods, arms and ammunition, wine and slops, and other articles were 
divided into shares. Two days later they reached Matavai Bay and, 
with the help of the natives, the belongings of the shore party were 
all landed by nightfall. Among them were the "Household Gods" 
of the chief Tinarou ^^ which later created a sensation when pre- 
sented to the young Prince Tu (afterward King Pomare I) on behalf 
of the ship's company (Morrison, 1935, pp. 74-78). 

Hitihiti, who made the presentation, and the other Tahitian men 
went ashore, delighted to be back, and with them went one of 
Taroamiva's companions from Tubuai. But during the course of the 
day three other Tahitian men (one was actually a Raiatean) and a 
boy came on board, with a number of women. 

Christian also went ashore and spent some hours discussing with 
Heywood and Stewart the events connected with the mutiny, for 
wliich he declared himself entirely responsible. He stated that a 
warship would certainly be sent to look for them, whether or not 
Bligh succeeded in reaching civilization, and strongly advised them 
to give themselves up on its arrival, since neither of them had taken 
any part in the affair. After requesting Heywood to communicate 
certain matters to liis family, which he felt might at least sei've to 
extenuate his crime, he rowed to the Bounty and set her course out 
of the bay (Belcher, 1870, pp. 50-51). 

The hrig '"''Mercury y — On their arrival in Tahiti the mutineers had 
been told that there was now another European in the island named 
Brown, who had been left by Capt. J. H. Cox of the brig Mercury. 
As Brown was not seen until after Christian's departure, the latter 
never learnt how near he had been to discovery when all hands were 
busily engaged in the building of Fort George. Yet from Mortimer's 
narrative of the voyage it is clear that Cox sighted Tubuai on his 
way to Tahiti and that it was only the advent of darlmess that pre- 
vented him from communicating with the islanders and, in all prob- 
ability, from seeing the Bounty at her anchorage inside the reef : 

August 9, 1789. In the afternoon, we saw the Island of Toobouai, bearing 
North East by East half East, distant about eleven leagues; and at eight at 
night passed within two miles of it. We perceived several lights on shore, and 
fired two guns to draw the attention of the inhabitants; but night prevented 
us from seeing them. 

Owing to the dark, the Mercury got too close to the reef and, had it 
been calm, she would have been driven onto it by the swell "as the 



^s Described as two carved Images ornamented with pearl shell and human teeth, hair, 
aud nails, and set In a nest of the red tail feathers of the troplcblrd. 



548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

breakers were not a quarter of a mile from us when we wore ship" 
(Mortimer, 1791, p. 22). 

It is intriguing to consider the infinite possibilities had Captain Cox 
heard of the presence of another ship at Tubuai and stopped for a 
sociable call, as he would assuredly have done, being in no hurry ; still 
more of what would have occurred had the weather been calm and the 
Mercury wrecked on the island. 

However, the brig passed on her way oblivious of the drama she 
was leaving behind, and during their stay in Tahiti the crew were 
much mystified by all the talk of Titreano (Christian) and Tootate 
(Aitutaki). The Tahitians told Mortimer that Titreano was Cap- 
tain Bligh's Chief Officer who had returned in the Bounty without 
Bligh, having left him at Tootate : 

This story was corroborated by Otoo and several chiefs ; who further informed 
us that Captain Titreano had sailed but fifteen days before our arrival, and 
had carried several Otaheitan families with him to Tootate. Where Tootate 
could be, and who they meant by Titreano, we could not then conjecture (Mor- 
timer, 1791, p. 33) .'» 

Wlien one considers this near miss at discovery just six weeks after 
the arrival of the mutineers at Tubuai, one wonders how long it really 
would have taken before Christian's fancied security was at an end. 

Abduction hy night. — To return to the Bounty^ sailing out of 
Matavai Bay in the early morning of September 23. There were then 
35 on board. Nine of these were Europeans : " 

Fletcher Christian Acting lieutenant. 

Edward Young Midshipman. 

John Mills Gunner's mate. 

Isaac Martin Able seaman. 

William Mickoy Do. 

Matthew Quintal Do. 

Alexander Smith Do. 

John Williams Do. 

William Brown Botanist's assistant. 

With them were 6 Polynesian men, 19 women, and a little girl. 

It is clear from Jenny's record (which is confirmed by Adams's 
statement to Captain Beechey) that, with the exception of Taroamiva 
and his companions "who were now become very fond of Mr. Christian 
and would not leave him," and probably of Christian's wife and Jenny 



" On Mortimer's return to England the significance of what he had heard was Immedi- 
ately realized and the authorities informed, thus providing Captain Edwards with the 
most plausible of the false clues that were to mislead him in his search for the mutineers 
a year later. (Letter from Sir Charles Blagden to Lord Palmerston, 29.6.1790, Mitchell 
Library phot Ab 216/1.) 

"The names are as inscribed In the Bounty's Muster Book and Pay Book (see Smith, 
1936, p. 212.) Alexander Smith later reverted to his real name of John Adams, while 
Mickoy came to be known as McCoy. 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — MAUDE 549 

herself 5 the natives on board the Bounty were in fact kidnaped against 
their will : blackbirding was now added to mutiny. 

As it was absolutely essential to success that this time there should 
be no shortage of women, plans were evidently laid carefully to insure 
that there would not be. On arrival Christian announced to all that 
he would be staying at least over night. The women — many of 
them no doubt former companions of the Europeans — were thereupon 
invited on board, "with the feigned purpose of taking leave" (Beechey, 
1831, vol, 1, p. 80). No doubt they came readily enough, as their 
sisters and mothers had been accustomed to do since the first sliip 
touched their shores. 

They were then told that the Bounty would be moving to Pare, 
Prince Tu's district, in the morning, and taken down to supper and 
bed. When Christian returned on board the anchor cable was quietly 
cut and the ship got underway ; and by the time the natives discovered 
that they had been tricked she was a mile outside the reefs. Even so, 
one of the women jumped overboard and set out for the shore: Jenny 
says that most of the remainder would have liked to have followed 
suit, but lacked the courage. 

Later in the morning the Bounty passed close to the atoll of Teti- 
aroa, 26 miles to the north of Tahiti, "but not so near as to admit any 
of the women venturing to swim on shore there, which several of them 
were inclined to do, as they were much afflicted at being torn away 
from their friends and relatives." 

Permanent female partners were now selected — one each for the 
mutineers and three in all for the natives — and the ship headed for 
Moorea, only 9 miles from Tahiti, where a canoe came out from the 
shore on which the six surplus women who, as Jenny puts it, were 
"rather ancient," were permitted to depart (Teehuteatuaonoa, 182G). 

Let us now follow the track of the Bounty in search of a home, 
with her fmal complement of 28 (including the infant) on board ; the 
future population of Pitcairn Island. 

The Isles of Mendana and Quiros. — To even the most casual student 
of Pitcairn's history it must have seemed curious that whereas the 
Bounty left Tahiti on September 23, 1789, she did not arrive at Pit- 
cairn until January 15, 1790, thus taking 4 months to complete a 
passage of 1,200 miles which should have occupied about a fortnight. 

Most authorities have been content to ignore the awkward dis- 
crepancy in dates, while the more conscientious have implied either 
that the Bounty cruised around looking for the island, apparently 
for some 31/^ months, or else that she actually arrived there during 
October or early November, despite all evidence to the contrary. 

In point of fact, she did neither. The evidence as to her movements 
during this period is admittedly not as detailed as we could wish, but 



550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

certain points can be established with a considerable degree of prob- 
ability, enabling others to be deduced from them. 

As we have seen, his mihappy experience at Tahiti had convinced 
Christian that he must seek for his future home an island which was 
uninhabited, unvisited, and without a harbor suitable for shipping, 
lie would then land his belonghigs, including the livestock and plants, 
run the Bounty ashore and, after stripping her of everything useful, 
set her on fire and settle down (Edwards and Hamilton, 1915, p. 38). 

This much Christian freely imparted to those left behind on Tahiti. 
He would have been foolish to have mentioned any more specifically 
where he intended to go; but actually, while he already possessed a 
very clear idea of what he wanted, he did not then know himself 
where it could bo found. His alleged statement to Henry Hillbrant 
that he intended to investigate the suitability of Atafu, an atoll in 
the Tokelau Group discovered by Byron in 17G5, must, I think, be 
regarded as a blind, since the Bounty never went there : if so, it turned 
out to be a successful one, sending the unimaginative Captain Ed- 
wards, in II.M.S. Pandora^ on a wild goose chase which took him 
thousands of miles in the wrong direction (Edwards and Hamilton, 
1915, pp. 40, 45-46) . Once Edwards had passed so far to the westward 
it was a moral certainty that he would not attempt to beat back 
against the trades to renew his search. 

From the two accounts left by Jenny and three separate statements 
made by Adams, none of which contains any major inconsistencies, 
it appears that after dropping the women oil' at Moorea it was pro- 
posed to prospect the Marquesas Islands, to the northeast of Tahiti, 
for a suitable location for the intended settlement. While this sug- 
gestion was being debated, the Bounty was kept on various tacks in 
the hope of sighting some uncharted and uninhabited island, ap- 
parently in the vicinity of Tahiti itself (Beechey, 1831, vol. 1, p. 80; 
Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 2, p. 292) . 

Instead of settling in the Marquesas, however, Adams told Folger 
in 1808 tliat they "went in search of a group of islands, wliich you may 
remember to have seen on the chart placed under the head of Spanish 
discoveries. They crossed the situation of those imaginary isles, and 
satisfied themselves that none existed" (Folger, 1819, p. 265). 

This is, in fact, what I believe they did. It must be remembered 
that in 1790 the identification of the discoveries of Mendana and 
Quiros were still not recognized in England and they were generally 
considered to lie well to the west of their actual position. To quote 
Beaglehole : 

Dead reckoning had led Mendana to put his Western Isles 1,700 leagues from 
Peru; they were in reality 2,000 miles more distant. It was natural that by 
1640 they should be incorporated into the Marquesas, that in the passage of 
time their supposed longitude should vary from 2,400 to 7,500 miles west of 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 551 

Peru and even their latitude from 7° to 19° S. It was natural that Carteret 
should sail five degrees west of the position attributed to them in his own 
day and, not meeting them, utter his unbelief (Beaglehole, 1934, p. 384). 

The discovery of Rarotonga. — Unfortunately for us, Jenny was 
not particularly interested in the route taken by the Bounty and only 
mentions a visit to an island when it is associated with some incident 
that happened to excite her attention at the time. She describes how 
they sailed before the wind to the westward until — 

After many days a small island was discovered called by the natives Purutea. 
A canoe came off bringing a pig and cocoanuts with them. One of the natives 
ventured on board and was much delighted by the pearl-shell buttons on Captain 
Christian's Jacket. The Captain in a very friendly manner gave the man the 
Jacket. He stood on the ship's gunwale showing the present to his countrymen 
when one of the mutineers shot him dead. He fell into the Sea. Christian was 
highly indignant at this. He could do nothing more, having lost all authority, 
than reprimand the murderer severely: the other natives in the canoe im- 
mediately picked up their murdered companion, placed the body in the canoe 
and paddled towards the shore with loud lamentations. 

After several days more, saw one of the Tongataboo or Friendly Islands . . . 
(Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826). 

Meager though this account is, it still enables us to establish, first, 
that Christian sailed west from the Society Group mitil he reached 
the Tongan Archipelago (we shall see later that the island visited 
there was most probably Tongatapu itself) , and second, that he sighted 
at least one island between the two groups. A glance at the map, fur- 
thermore, will show that his route should have taken him right 
through the southern Cook Islands, the obvious inference being that 
Jenny's Purutea must have been one of them. 

We do not have to be content with Jenny's unsupported testimony 
for this inference, however, as there is confirmatory evidence from one 
of the Cook Group in the traditions of the islanders themselves (Gil- 
son, MS., 1952, pp. 14-16) . 

This evidence comes from Rarotonga where the missionary John 
Williams, on his first visit there in 1823, was surprised to find that 
news of Captain Cook's visits to Tahiti had already been brought by 
a party of men who had drifted from that island in a canoe, as well as 
by a mysterious woman (Williams, 1838, p. 106).^^ Impressed by 
what they had heard, the Rarotongans petitioned the Gods to grant 
them a similar visit : 

O, great Tangaroa, send your large ship to our land ; let us see the Cookees. 
Great Tangiia, send us a dead sea, send us a propitious gale, to bring the far- 
famed Cookees to our island, to give us nails, and iron, and axes; let us see 
these outriggerless canoes. 



» Her means of conveyance Is not stated, but she may have been one of the two Tahitlan 
women who came to Rarotonga with Goodenough (GIU, 1911, p. 193). 
536608—60 37 



552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Williams records that — 

Not very long after this, a large ship did actually arrive; and from the 
description the natives gave me of her, I have no doubt but that it was the 
Bounty, after she had been taken by the mutineers. This vessel did not 
anchor, but one of the natives took his little canoe, and summoning all his 
courage, ventiu-ed to go on board. On returning to the shore, he told his 
astonished countrymen that it was a floating island ; that there were two rivers 
of water flowing on it; that two large taro plantations, with sugar-cane, bread- 
fruit, and other trees, were growing there, that the keel scraped the bottom 
of the sea ; for he dived as deep as man could go, and could not see its termina- 
tion. I account for these singular statements, by supposing that the pumps 
were at work while the man was on board, which he mistook for rivers, or 
streams, and that the two plantations, bread-fruit trees, etc., were the large 
boxes which were fitted up throughout this vessel for those exotics, which it 
was the specific object of the Bounty to convey from Tahiti to the West Indies. 
From this vessel was obtained a pointed piece of iron, about two feet six 
inches in length, which the natives immediately dedicated to the gods . . . 
(Williams, 1838, pp. 201-202)." 

An even more detailed account of this visit was later given by 
Maretu, a local authority on the early history of the island, who 
informed Dr. Wyatt Gill that Goodenough, who called at Rarotonga 
during the year 1814, was not its discoverer, since before liim — 

There came here a very large ship, but the people did not land. Two 
canoes went off to that ship, and bartered some goods from the white people, 
amongst them the Anae; they purchased these things with fowls, coconuts, and 
bananas. As they left, a man named Maia stole a large box from the ship, 
and in it was found the orange and the motini. Makare was the name of the 
captain. One of the chiefs who went on board, named Tamarua, reported that 
they had taro swamps and young banana trees, besides young bread-fruit trees 
and many packages of anae, with stones also. They were wild with astonish- 
ment at that ship. It was from thence we obtained the first oranges, whilst 
Kaputini procured a mautini from there (Gill, 1911, p. 192) .^ 

We have the authority of Stephen Savage, the Rarotongan scholar 
and translator of Maretu's statement, that Makere is the Maori trans- 
literation of McCoy; motini (or mautini) is the pumpkin and anae a 
species of fern, though it may also have had some other meaning in 
Maretu's day. The "stones" referred to were thought to have been 
iron implements. 



" Basil Thomson, In quoting this passage, Is apparently so concerned at its implications 
that he flatly accuses Williams of error, arguing that "the tradition must have referred to 
Bligh's visit to Aitutaki before the mutiny when the decks were encumbered with bread- 
fruit, for we know that the first thing the mutineers did after setting their captain adrift 
was to throw all the bread-fruit plants overboard, and that they steered direct for Tahiti" 
(Edwards and Hamilton, 1915, pp. 40-41, footnote 2). A further example of the reluc- 
tance of historians to accept evidence tending to discredit the time-hallowed theory that 
the Bounty went straight from Tahiti to Pitcairn is mentioned in footnote 25. 

=*A MS. translation of Maretu's autobiography in the Library of the Polynesian So- 
ciety states that the Rarotongans also obtained braces and belts from the ship, and recog- 
nized the mato (a tree that grew on their Island) among the vegetation on board. No one 
came ashore "because of the rain" (Maretu, MS., 1949, p. 4). For Goodenough's visit, 
which Gill wrongly thought had occurred in 1820, see the Sydney Gazette for Oct. 22, 1814. 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND — MAUDE 553 

Both Williams and Wyatt Gill were under no doubt that Karotonga 
had been visited by the Bounty^ though not having the evidence we 
now possess Gill concluded that she called there immediately after 
the mutiny and on her way to Tahiti (Gill, 1911, p. 192).^^ Gosset, 
who lived in the Cook Islands from 1899 to 1904, found a definite 
tradition among the older generations in Earotonga that the Bounty 
had called ; and Pa Maretu, then chief of Ngati-Tangiia, assured him 
that the first orange trees on the island grew from the seeds of the 
fruit fomid in the stolen box (Gosset, 1940, pp. 9-10). 

But even if we admit the authenticity of the tradition of a ship's 
call, was that ship necessarily the Bounty? I suggest that an analysis 
of the evidence, especially that relating to the cargo on board, indi- 
cates that it was. 

In the first place, an exhaustive search has established that only 
two vessels reported sighting Rarotonga before Goodenough's visit, 
and both passed the island within a few months of the event.^^ Of 
these, one had no contact with the shore, while the other was known 
to be short of provisions and would certainly not have given the 
appearance of a floatmg horticultural exhibition. 

In fact, even in the unlikely event of some other vessel calling and 
omitting to record the visit is it conceivable that she would be carrying 
a cargo of growing taro tubers, young banana shoots, and breadfruit 
trees, obviously plant material for an agricultural settlement on some 
South Sea (or at least tropical) island? But the Bounty was: for 
Morrison tells us that when Christian left Tahiti she was full of live- 
stock "together with plants of all the kinds that are Common in these 
Islands" and Jeimy reports that on her aiTival at Pitcairn the settlers 
set to work immediately planting the yams, taro, bananas and aute ^^ 
which they had brought with them (Teehuteatuaonoa, 1819). That 
they did not need to plant the breadfruit trees, which Adams says 
they had also kept on board from Bligh's plants, was only because 
there w ere found to be plenty already growing on the island. 

As regards the name McCoy ,^* although this is not a common name 
it can scarcely be regarded as sufficient proof of the visit in itself, but 
is valuable as supporting evidence. The fact that McCoy (one of the 
most refractory of the able seamen on the Bounty^ who had caused 
trouble to both Bligh and Christian) was believed to be the captain is, 
of course, of no significance. In the intense excitement which must 
have prevailed on that brief visit to the first European ship ever seen, 

" Aaron Buzacott, missionary oa Rarotonga from 1828 to 1857, thought the same (Cal- 
kin, 1953, pp. 49-50). 

22 The Endeavour (September or October 1813) and the Seringapatam (May 1814). 

^ The paper mulberry (Broussonetia papyrifera), from which the Tahitian brown cloth 
was made. 

^ The name Is spelled Miclcoy in the Bounty's Muster Book and Pay Book, and by Bligh 
in his Log; elsewhere one finds It spelled variously M'Coy, M'Koy and McKoy. His de- 
scendants, however, have called themselves McCoy, and this has become the accepted usage. 



554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

it is not surprising if a mistake was made on this point : McCoy was 
presumably the man with whom the informant spoke ; was quite pos- 
sibly in charge of the watch at the time ; and may well have conveyed 
the impression that he was in charge of the vessel. 

The Bounty^ then, is the only ship believed to have visited Raro- 
tonga prior to 1820 without being in a position to have reported, and 
thus taken the credit for, such an important discovery ; the only ship 
likely to have carried such an miusual cargo ; and, with a lower degree 
of probability, the only ship with a European named McCoy on board. 
When one adds that, as we now know, her route would logically have 
taken her through the area in which the island is situated, it is hard to 
resist the conclusion that Christian was the rightful discoverer of 
Rarotonga. 

There remains the problem of Purutea. This island was almost 
certainly one of the Cook Group, though it cannot be found among the 
few local place names recorded, but the incident mentioned by Jenny 
is not recounted either by Williams or Maretu. All one can say, there- 
fore, is that Purutea could have been Rarotonga ; but that from its 
position it could also have been Mauke, Atiu, or Mitiaro. 

It was not Palmerston Island, 270 miles to the northwest of Raro- 
tonga, where Captain Edwards f oimd a yard marked "Bounty's Driver 
Yard" and some spars with "Bounty" written on them, from which he 
at first concluded that the vessel had called there (Edwards and 
Hamilton, 1915, pp. 9, 43-44, 124) . But as these were all lying on the 
beach at high-water mark, and worm-eaten from long immersion in 
the sea, they were clearly the spars lost while the Bounty was being 
warped up through the shallow lagoon at Tubuai when, as Morrison 
tells us: "After we had got about halfway, it became necessary to 
lighten the ship, by starting the Water ; but that not being sufficient 
the Booms and Spars were got out and Moord at a Grapnel, but it 
coming on to blow fresh they went adrift and we saw them no 
more . . ." (Morrison, 1935, p. 55). 

Normal set of wind and current could have easily taken them north- 
west to Palmerston. 

Tongatapu. — We have seen from Jemiy's narrative that from the 
Cook Group the Bounty continued to sail west until, several days 
later, she reached one of the Friendly Islands, where the mutineers 
traded with the Tongans for pigs, chickens, and yams. 

It is fortunately possible to identify, with a considerable degree of 
probability, the actual island at which they called, since Jenny men- 
tions that the natives told them that "Totee (Captain Cook) had been 
there, and that the homed cattle left by him were living" (Teehu- 
teatuaonoa,1826).2» 

^ Mackaness, who cites Jenny, omits from his qnotatlon the passages referring to the 
visit to Tongatapu, at the same time repeating the story of the Bounty sailing direct from 
Pltcalrn (Mackaness, 1931, pp. 209-211). 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND ^MAUDE 555 

Cook did leave cattle in the Tongan Group, as Jenny says ; on the 
island of Tongatapu itself, and nowhere else in the Western Pacific. 
And in leaving them he pointed out that "there were no such animals 
within many months sail of their island . . . that therefore they must 
be careful not to kill any of them, till they had multiplied to a 
numerous race" (Cook, 1785, vol. 1, p. 303. This was in 1777). 

There is every reason, therefore, to believe Jenny's account of the 
Bounty''^ visit to Tongatapu, where she says that they stayed 2 days. 
She is a reliable witness; and on all occasions on which it has been 
possible to check statements made in her tw^o narratives they have 
proved to be both accurate and consistent. Furthermore, it is unlikely 
that she would have had any motive for inventmg this particular 
story, with all its circumstantial detail; or, indeed, that she would 
have possessed the knowledge to do so. 

The only evidence against regarding Tongatapu as the island called 
at comes from a passage in the recently discovered Pipon MS., in 
which Adams informs Captain Pipon that Fletcher Christian — 

. . . after having left Otaheite the last time (for he visited Anamooka, one 
of the Friendly Islands, after his desertion from his duty, and disobedience 
to his Captain, not finding the reception he expected there, or rather that his 
plans could not be carried into execution without fear of detection) returned 
to Otaheite with a feigned story, which the Islanders readily gave ear to, 
of having met Captain Cook, who had sent him, "Fletcher," for a supply of 
provisions . . . (Pipon, MS., 1814).^ 

While this involved and ambiguous sentence might conceivably be 
considered as confirmation of the Bounty''^ visit to the Tongan Group 
after the mutiny, I do not believe that we can legitimately regard 
it as such, for the wording suggests that Pipon (either through a 
misunderstanding or being misinformed by Adams) has telescoped the 
vessel's call at Nomuka (then known as Anamooka) just prior to the 
mutiny and the visit to Tubuai which succeeded it. Much of the 
other information obtained by Pipon from Adams is similarly garbled. 

It would seem, therefore, that Christian went in search of his 
islands by a route south of the track taken by previous discoverers 
on their way from Eastern to Western Polynesia; the exceptions. 
Cook in 1777 and Cox in 1789, who were both sailing in the opposite 
direction, had gone even farther to the south. 

This is not surprising, for it is logical to suppose that Christian 
would have taken a new route, since he knew that none of the Spanish 
islands, or any others suited to his purpose, lay in the areas already 
traversed, and to have gone farther north still would have taken him 

*« The Pipon MS. has never been published In Its entirety, though short extracts from 
It have been quoted by Barrow and others. The editor of the version published in the 
United Service Journal (1834, pp. 191-197) has unfortunately omitted many of the more 
important passages relating to Christian, Including the one quoted. On this point see 
Mackaness, 1931. pp. 216-219, 



556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

into the Tropics, not a propitious locality for permanent European 
settlement. It is interesting to note, however, that he was now almost 
back where he had started, for Tongatapu is less than 100 miles 
from Tofua, the island off which the mutiny had taken place 
7 months before. 

The Lau Islands. — After leaving Tongatapu the course was still 
set to the westward for "a few days," after which they came upon a 
small, low island : 

Here Christian proposed to stop. The boat was sent on shore to ascertain 
whether the island was inhabited or not. Before they had time to land people 
were seen on the beach. After landing and remaining awhile on shore the 
boat returned to the ship with the news. Had this been an uninhabited island, 
Christian would have destroyed the ship and stayed there. Finding the 
inhabitants were numerous they sailed away that night to windward 
(Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826). 

This would appear to be the "low lagoon island, which they call 
Vivini, where they got birds, eggs and cocoa nuts," mentioned in 
Jenny's first narrative. 

The only small, low islands lying a few days sail to the westward 
of Tongatapu are the Southern Lau Group of Fiji, distant approxi- 
mately 220 miles and consisting of Vatoa, Ono-i-Lau, Tuvana-i-tholo, 
and Tuvana-i-ra. Of these only Vatoa and Ono-i-Lau possess lagoons, 
so that Vivini must have been one or other of these islands. 

The name cannot be traced anywhere in the Pacific : but this means 
little since most local place-names, including those on Vatoa and Ono- 
i-Lau, have never been published, and in any case it could be merely 
the Tahitian rendering of a name given by the mutineers. 

Its position rather favors Ono-i-Lau (lat. 20°39' S.), as lying 
nearest to the parallel of 21° S. on which Christian appears to have 
been sailing since he left Earotonga, and it had, at least in recent 
years, the larger population (586 as against 171, in 1936). On the 
other hand, Vatoa is the lower (209 feet as against 370 feet) and has 
a less intricate lagoon entrance for boats. 

The evidence, however, is too inconclusive for us to say with any 
confidence which of the two islands was visited by the Bounty ; a pity 
because, while Vatoa was seen by Cook in 1774, Ono-i-Lau is not 
believed to have been discovered until 1820, when Bellingshausen 
sighted it." 

Pitcairn's Island. — It was now toward the end of November; 2 
months had passed since leaving Tahiti and the mutineers must have 



" It appears that of Fiji's historians only Sir Everard Im Thurn has discovered Jenny's 
narrative and realized Its significance. In his introduction to Lockerby's Journal, Sir 
Everard quotes the appropriate portion (from the Bengal Hurkaru) and goes on to state 
that, In his opinion, It "suggests with much probability, that the Bounty herself, after 
the mutiny and her subsequent return, under Christian, to Tahiti, actually touched at a 
Fijian Island, and that this Island, rather than Pitcalrn, might have become the hiding 
place of the mutineers" (Im Thurn and Wharton, 1925, pp. XVIII-XIX). 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 557 

felt no nearer finding tlieir future home tlian they had been when 
they started. As for the Isles of Solomon, they had proved as elusive 
as ever and Christian would have probably agreed cordially with 
Byron 25 years earlier, who gave up the search for them at Atafu 
in the Tokelaus (6° farther east) with the remark that "the only 
person who has pretended to have seen them is Quiros, and I doubt 
whether he left behind him any account of them by which they might 
be found by future navigators" (Kerr, 1811-24, vol. 12, p. 94). 

At all events, further search to the west was abandoned in the 
Southern Lau Group and the Bounty headed for the first time toward 
Pitcaim. It would be interesting to know at what stage of the voy- 
age Christian began to consider this island as a possibility ; but one 
can imagine him seated in Bligh's cabin anxiously thumbing through 
the many volumes of voyages known to have been on the shelves 
(Shillibeer, 1817, pp. 97-98). 

Among these was an edition of Hawhesworth's Voyages^ published 
in 1773, which contained this brief description by Carteret of his dis- 
covery, made in 1767 : 

We continued our course westward till the evening of Thursday, the 2nd of 
July, when we discovered land to the northward of us. Upon approaching it 
the next day, it appeared like a great rock rising out of the sea : it was not 
more than five miles in circumference, and seemed to be uninhabited ; it was, 
however, covered with trees, and we saw a small stream of fresh water run- 
ning down one side of it. I would have landed upon it, but the surf, which at 
this season broke upon it with great violence, rendered it impossible. I got 
soundings on the west side of it, at somewhat less than a mile from the shore, 
in twenty-five fathoms, with a bottom of coral and sand ; and it is probable that 
in fine summer weather landing here may not only be practicable but easy. We 
saw a great niunber of sea-birds hovering about it, at somewhat less than a 
mile from the shore, and the sea here seemed to have fish. It lies in lat. 20°2' 
south: long. 133°21' west. It is so high that we saw it at the distance of more 
than fifteen leagues, and it having been discovered by a young gentleman, son 
to Major Pitcaim of the marines, we called it PITCAIRN'S ISLAND (Hawkes- 
worth, 1773, vol. 1, p. 561. For a statement by Adams that Christian saw the 
account see Beechey, 1881, vol. 1, p. 80) . 

The latitude given in this account is an obvious slip, for in his chart 
of Pitcaim Carteret states it to be in 25°02' S. and 133°30' W. : its 
actual position is 25°04' S. and 130°1C/ W., or nearly 200 miles to the 
east of Carteret's reckoning. Cook had passed close by, without sight- 
ing it, on his first voyage; and had again missed it on his second by 
being compelled, through an outbreak of scurvy, to make for Tahiti 
when only a few miles to the westward (Beaglehole, 1934, pp. 283, 322) . 
To Christian the description of the high, tree-covered island, with 
its running water, apparently uninhabited and clearly difficult of ac- 
cess, must have appeared the solution to his troubles. But two more 
months were to pass before they sighted it ; a weary period of tacking 
in the teeth of the southeast trades during which, Jenny says, "all on 



558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

board were much discouraged; tliey therefor thought of returning 
to Tahiti." 

In one account Jenny sj)eaks of no land being seen throughout the 
period, but in the other of passing "between two mountainous is- 
lands, but the wind was so strong they could not land" (Teehutea- 
tuaonoa, 1819) : this would presumably be when returning through 
the Tongan Archipelago, the islands being most probably Hunga 
lla'abai and Hunga Tonga, some 30 miles to the north of Tongatapu 
and a bare mile apart. 

Moerenhout, writing of Mangareva Island (300 miles to the north- 
west of Pitcairn) after his visit there in 1834, says: 

The Indians speak of a vessel which long preceded that of Captain Beechey. 
They even show the spot where the ship anchored and remember having had 
a dispute with the crew in which several of the natives were killed. This ap- 
pears the more probable in that, before the arrival of the Blossom, the people of 
Mangareva had a knowledge of iron and cultivated water-melons, which are 
not indigenous to their island (Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 2, pp. 322-323). 

As no one has been reported to have landed at Mangareva before 
Beechey's visit in 1825 in H.M.S. Blossom^^ Hall has posited the sug- 
gestion that the Bounty called there en route to Pitcairn, leaving 
watermelon seeds and iron tools (Hall, 1935, pp. 37-39). If this had 
been so, however, I think that we should have heard of it, if not from 
Jenny then from John Adams, who laiew that Beechey was going 
from Pitcairn in the direction of Mangareva and would surely have 
mentioned the fact had he been there himself. The iron and water- 
melon seeds can best be ascribed to the sealers and whalers known to 
have been in the area from 1817, and even earlier. No less than 19 
ships are Imown to have called at Pitcairn before H.M.S. Blossom^ 
while several others were sighted but did not stop: is it reasonable 
then, to suppose that not one ever visited an island so near ? 

Much has been conjectured also on the supposed feat of finding 
such an incorrectly charted island as Pitcairn, and some authorities 
claim that Cliristian must have spent weeks in looking for it. But in 
point of fact, there should have been little difficulty, since Christian 
had only to run along the latitude, which was approximately correct, 
until it was sighted. 

This was on the 15th of January, 1790 ^^ ; in the evening, when the 
setting sun would have lighted up the heights of Goat-house Peak and 
the Ridge. It was boisterous weather, though midsummer, and the 
seas so rough that it was 3 whole days before they could attempt a 
landing (Teehuteatuaonoa, 1826). 



^' Wilson, of the missionary ship Duff, the discoverer of Mangareva in 1797, only passed 
by the island. 

*" This date Is calculated from statements made by Jenny and Adams. The Bounty was 
burnt 8 days later, on January 23. 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 559 

One can readily picture the tense expectancy of those last days off 
the island, as the little group of Europeans and Polynesians stood at 
the rail of the Bounty^ speculating on its suitability for permanent 
settlement. Even from the sea they could discover coconut palms and 
breadfruit trees among the prevailing mlro and purau^ sure signs of 
former, if not present, inhabitants ; it was resolved, therefore, to send 
a well-armed prospecting party to make an inspection before contem- 
plating any major disembarkation. 

As soon as the weather had moderated enough for a landing to be 
attempted, the boat was lowered and Christian, Brown, Williams, 
McCoy, and the three Tahitians rowed through the surf to the shore 
at what is now called Tedside, the alternative rough-weather landing 
place on the western coast. The ship then stood out to sea.^° 

Two days later Christian was again taken on board. He returned, 
says Adams, "With a joyful expression such as we had not seen on 
him for a long time past" (Moerenhout, 1837, vol. 2, p. 293). The 
island had, in fact, exceeded his most sanguine hopes : in its fertility, 
its beauty, its temperate climate and, above all, in its now demonstrated 
inaccessibility, Pitcairn was ideal for his purpose. And, in addition, 
the race which had planted it ready for their use had apparently died 
out or departed, for the traces they found of their occupation were 
all old. 

The search was over: during the nine eventful months since the 
mutiny on the Bounty^ Christian and his followers had seen much and 
done much ; they had attempted the colonization venture at Tubuai, 
which even if a failure had given them invaluable experience and a 
knowledge of the necessary conditions for future success; they had 
crisscrossed the South Pacific three times, visiting the Society, 
Austral, Cook, Tonga, and Fiji Groups; they had discovered the 
important island of Rarotonga ; they had searched in vain for the lost 
islands of Mendana and Quiros; they had acquired wives and an 
entourage ; and now, after sailing over 7,800 miles from the day they 
left Bligh and Tofua, the mutineers had found their future home and 
the Bounty her last resting place. 

REFERENCES 
Atkin, R. T. 

1930. Ethnology of Tubuai. Bernice P. Bishop Mus. Bull. 70. Honolulu. 
Barney, Stephen. 

1794. Minutes of the proceedings of the court martial held at Portsmouth 
12th August, 1792 . . . London. 
Barrow, Sir John. 

1831. Eventful history of the mutiny, and piratical seizure of H.M.S. 
Bounty; its cause and consequences. London. (This is the first 
edition; the best is in the World's Classics, London, 1914.) 



^ While they were away John Mills is said to have made an unsuccessful attempt to 
induce his companions to maroon them and return to Tahiti (Bennett, 1840, vol. 1, p. 46). 



560 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Beaglehole, J. C. 

1934. Tlie exploration of the Pacific. London. 
Beechey, Capt. F. W. 

1831. Narrative of a voyage to the Pacific and Beering's Strait. 2 vols. 
London. 
Belcher, Lady Diana. 

1870. The mutineers of the Bounty and their descendants in Pitcairn and 
Norfolk Islands. London. 
Bennett, F. D. 

1840. Narrative of a whaling voyage round the globe, from the year 1833 
to 1836. 2 vols. London. 
Bligh, Lieut. William. 

1937. The log of the Bounty. 2 vols. London. 
Brodie, Walter. 

1851. Pitcairn's Island and the islanders in 1850. London. 
Buffett, John. 

1846. A narrative of 20 years' residence on Pitcairn's Island. The Friend, 
vol. 4, pp. 2-^, 20-21, 27-28, 34-35, 50-51, 66-68. 
Caillot, a. C. E. 

1909. Les Polynesiens orientaux au contact de la civilization. Paris. 

1910. Histoire de la Polynesie orientale. Paris. 
Calkin, Milo. 

1953. The last voyage of the Independence. The story of a shipvereck and 
South Sea sketches 1833 to 1836. San Francisco. (Privately 
printed by Weiss Printing Co.) 
Cook, Capt. James. 

1785. Voyage to the Pacific Ocean, undertaken . . . for making discoveries 
in the N. Hemisphere ... in 1776-1780. 3d ed., 3 vols. London. 
Edwards, E., and Hamilton, G. 

1915. Voyage of H.M.S. Pandora . . . London. 
Ellis, William. 

1831. Polynesian researches. 2d ed., 4 vols. London. 
FoLGiat, Matthew. 

1819. Letter to Amaso Delano. Quart. Journ. Sci. and Art., vol. 1, art. 8. 
Gill, Wyatt. 

1911. Extracts from Dr. Wyatt Gill's papers. No. 13. The coming of Good- 

enough's ships to Rarotonga in 1820. Journ. Polynesian Soc, vol. 
20, pp. 191-195. 
GiLSON, R. P. 

Administration of the Cook Islands (Rarotonga). MS. thesis for 
M. Sc. (Economics), Univ. London, 1952. 
GOSSET, R. W. G. 

1940. Notes on the discovery of Rarotonga. Australian Geogr., vol. 3, pp. 
4-15. 
Hall, James Norman. 

1935. Shipwreck. London. 
Hawkesworth, J. 

1773. Account of the voyages ... by Byron, Wallis, Carteret, and Cook. 
3 vols. London. 
Henry, Teuira. 

1928. Ancient Tahiti. Bernice P. Bishop Mus. Bull. 48. Honolulu. 
Im Thurn, Sir Everard, and Wharton, Leonard C. 

1925. The journal of William Lockerby . . . Hakluyt Soc, ser. 2, vol. 52. 
London. 



FROM THE MUTINY TO PITCAIRN ISLAND MAUDE 561 

Kebb, B. 

1811-24. General history and collection of voyages and travels ... 18 vols. 
Edinburgh. 
KoTZEBUE, Otto von. 

1830. A new voyage round the world ... 2 vols. London. 
Lee, Ida. 

1920. Captain Bligh's second voyage to the South Sea. London. 
Mackaness, George. 

1931. The life of Vice- Admiral William Bligh. Sydney. 
Mabetu. 

Autobiography, tr. by Tai Tekeu. MS. in library of Polynesian 

Society, Wellington, N'.Z., 1949. 
Moebenhout, J. A. 

1837. Voyages aux lies du Grand Ocean ... 2 vols. Paris. 
Montgomery, J. 

1831. Journal of voyages and travels of the Rev. Daniel Tyerman and 

George Bennett. 2 vols. London. 
MoREisoN, James. 

1935. The journal of James Morrison, Boatswain's mate of the Bounty. . . . 

London. 
Mobtimeb, G. 

1791. Observations and remarlcs made during a voyage to the Islands of 
. . . Otaheite, Sandwich Islands ... in the Brig Mercury, com- 
manded by John Henry Cox, Esq. London. (Printed for the 
author. ) 
Murray, Rev. T. B. 

1853. Pitcairn : the island, the people, and the pastor. London. 
PrPON, Capt. P. 

Narrative of the state [sic] mutineers of H.M. ship Bounty settled 

on Pitcairn's Island in the South Seas ; in September, 1814. MS. in 
Mitchell Library, Sydney, Banks' Papers — Brabourne Coll., vol, 1, 
pp. 17-51, 1814. (There is an abridged version in the United Serv- 
ice Journal, 1834. ) 
Rutter, Owen, editor. 

1931. The court-martial of the Bounty mutineers. Edinburgh. 
Selile, Alvin. 

Narrative of trip to South Sea Islands, with notes on voyages, islands 

and people, 1901-1902. MS. in Bernice P. Bishop Museum library, 
Honolulu, 1902. 
Shapiro, Harry L. 

1936. The heritage of the Bounty; the story of Pitcairn through six genera- 

tions. New York. 
Shillibeer, Lieut. J. 

1817. A narrative of the Briton's voyage to Pitcairn's Island. London. 
Smith, D. Bonner. 

1936. Some remarks about the mutiny of the Bounty. Mariner's Mirror, 
vol. 22, pp. 200-237. 
Teehuteatuaonoa (or Jenny). 

1819. First narrative, published in the Sydney Gazette for July 17, and 

reproduced in the Liverpool Mercury for December 24. 
1826. Second narrative, published in the Bengal Hurkaru for October 2, 
and reprotluced in the United Service Journal, pt. 2, pp. 589-593, 
1829. 



562 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Williams, John. 

1838. A narrative of missionary enterprises in the Soutli Sea Islands. 
. . . London. 
Wilson, James. 

1799. A missionary voyage to the South Pacific Ocean, performed in the 
years 1796, 1797, 1798, in the ship Duff . . . London, 
Young, Rosalind A. 

1894, Mutiny of the Bounty and story of Pitcairn Island, 1790-1894. 
Oakland, Calif. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, 
as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial 
and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 
25,D.C. 



The Chinook Sign of Freedom: 
A Study of the Skull of the Famous Chief 

Comcomly 



By T. D. Stewart 

Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology 

United States National Museum, 

Smithsonian Institution 



[With 6 plates] 



November Itli [1805]. . . . We bad not gone far from this village [Wahkia- 
ciuns] when the fog cleared off, and we enjoyed the delightful prospect of the 
ocean — that ocean, the object of all our labors, the reward of all our 
anxieties .... 

Novemher 20th. ... As we went along the beach we were overtaken by 
several Indians, who gave us dried sturgeon and wappatoo-roots, and soon met 
several parties of Chinnooks returning from the camp. When we arrived 
there we found many Chinnooks ; two of them being chiefs, we went through 
the ceremony of giving to each a medal, and to the most distinguished a flag. 
Their names were Comcommoly and Chillahlawil. — From History of the Ex- 
pedition under the Command of Lewis and Clark, by Elliott Coues (1893), 



. . . The process by which [head] deformity [among the Chinooks] is effected 
commences immediately after birth. The infant is laid in a wooden trough, 
by way of cradle. The end on which the head reposes is higher than the rest. 
A padding is placed on the forehead of the infant, with a piece of bark above 
it, and is pressed down by cords, w^hich pass through holes on each side of the 
trough. As the tightening of the padding and the pressing of the head to the 
board is gradual, the process is said not to be attended with much pain. The 
appearance of the infant, however, while in this state of compression, is whim- 
sically hideous, and "its little black eyes," we are told, "being forced out by 
the tightness of the bandages, resemble those of a mouse choked in a trap." 

About a year's pressure is suflScient to produce the desired effect, at the end 
of which time the child emerges from its bandages a complete flathead, and 
continues so through life. It must be noted, however, that this flattening of 
the head has something in it of aristocratical significancy, like the crippling 
of the feet among Chinese ladies of quality. At any rate, it is a sign of free- 
dom. No slave is permitted to bestow this enviable deformity upon his child ; 
all the slaves, therefore, are roundheads. — From Astoria; or, Anecdotes of an 
Enterprise Beyond the Rocky Mountains, by Washington Irving (1849). 

563 



564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The great majority of the North American Indians either died off, 
were killed, or became racially admixed and acculturated before they 
could be studied by physical anthropologists. This is particularly 
true of the Indians originally occupying the coastal regions of the 
United States, which naturally were the first parts settled. Thus, 
today much of our knowledge of the physical characteristics of these 
Indians has come from studies of skeletons. Yet rarely are skeletal 
remains identifiable beyond such general attributes as sex, age, and 
cultural affiliation. An exception is the skull of Chief Comcomly, 
subject of the present study. This specimen has unusually good doc- 
umentation and offers evidence of a distinctive culture trait, namely, 
intentional head flattening. Emphasis will be placed on the deform- 
ity, because this is a study in physical anthropology ; but the documen- 
tation is very valuable, as will become apparent. The above 
quotations, besides supplying the title and the first mention of 
Comcomly, are notable examples of the available documentation con- 
cerning this chief and the customs of his tribe. It is regrettable that 
space limitations will not permit the inclusion of many other such 
interesting and pertinent statements. 

The writer is indebted to Stanley P. Young, recently retired from 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the In- 
terior, for calling to his attention the existence of Comcomly's skull ; 
to the Clatsop County Historical Society, Inc., of Astoria, Oreg., Otto 
Owen, president, and in particular to its corresponding secretary, 
Burnby M. Bell, for the loan of this skull; and to the Academy of 
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for the loan of skull No. 462 of the 
Morton Collection (John K. Townsend's Chinook "chief"). 

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

When in May 1841 Charles Wilkes, commander of the United States 
Exploring Expedition, visited the remnants of Astoria, the Astor 
establishment at the mouth of the Columbia River, he was taken to 
see the "tomb" of the Indian chief Comcomly.^ Known as "the hos- 
pitable chief," Comcomly had been the leader of the Chinook tribe 
when Lewis and Clark arrived in the area in 1805 ; he had died during 
an epidemic in 1830 at an estimated age of 65 years.^ In reporting 
his visit Wilkes (1845, vol. 4, p. 343) gave a drawing of the "tomb" 
(pi. 1),^ and added, "The chief's skull, it is believed, is in Glasgow, 



* Many different spellings of the name appear In the literature. The spelling used In 
the Handbook of American Indians (Hodge. 1907, p. 329) has been followed here, being 
at the same time a simplified form of that given by Lewis and Clark (see epigraph). 

other spellings Include the following : Com-com-le, Te-eum-le, Comcomll. Oom-com-mo- 
ley, Kum-kumly, Kom-komle (see Lewis and Murakami, 1923, footnote 46 on p. 74). Some- 
times the Initial "m" is changed to "n." 

2 This Is based on Scouler's (1905) estimate of Comcomly's age in 1825 as 60 years. 

» Three years later Father De Smet also visited the "tomb," being perhaps the last to 
record a visit thereto (see Chittenden and Richardson, 1905, pp. 442—443). 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 565 

having been long since removed by Dr. Gardner [sic]." Actually, 
Dr. Meredith Gairdner, physician of the Hudson's Bay Company at 
Fort Vancouver, had removed the skull in 1835, only 6 years before, 
and he himself had died of tuberculosis in the Hawaiian Islands the 
following year. Also, the skull was not in Glasgow, but in the 
Haslar Museum at the Eoyal Naval Hospital near Portsmouth, Eng- 
land, where it had been placed in 1838 by its recipient Dr. (later Sir) 
John Richardson, the famous explorer of the American Arctic and 
the founder of the museum. These facts are to be found in the 
museum's records in the following form : 

Copy of correspondence relating to the skull of Comcomly 
Presented by Dr. Richardson 

Skull of Comcomly, Chief of the Chinook Nation inhabiting the Country at 
the mouth of the Columbia in North West America. It was sent to Dr. 
Richardson by Dr. Meredith Gairdner a young naturalist of great talent, 
known to the scientific world by several able papers on mineral and other 
subjects,* but who died prematurely of consumption at Oahu in the Sandwich 
Isles, shortly subsequent to the date of his letter of which the following 
is an extract. 

Oahu, Sandwich Isles, 21st. November 1835. 
My Dear Sir, 

I wrote to you from the Columbia in Sept. last and merely add these few 
lines to inform you that the accompanying head in a small box is that of 
Comcomly the old Chief of the Chinook Nation at the mouth of the Columbia, 
who died four or five years ago. You may have heard of this character, for 
he is mentioned in most of the narratives relating to the Columbia. By his 
ability, cunning or what you please call it, he raised himself and his family 
to a power and influence which no Indian has since possessed in the districts 
of the Columbia below the first rapids 150 miles from the sea. When the 
phrenologists look at his frontal development what will they say to this? If 
I return to the Columbia I will endeavour to procure you the whole skeleton. 
I would readily have done so now were it not for my weak state of health ; 
as it was my exertions in procuring the head cost me a severe paroxysm of 
haemoptysis. The mummy like state of preservation which dead bodies of the 
Indians attain is curious. After death they are not embowelled or rubbed with 
oil or any gummy substances ; they are merely sometimes painted with ochre 
and water and wrapped in several folds of blankets; they are then deposited 
in a canoe which is placed on a stage elevated about 6 or 7 feet from the 
ground ; they here attain the most perfect state of exsiccation, though very 
imperfectly sheltered from the weather (the climate is very wet for six months 
in the year). After remaining in this position for 3 or 4 years, as may be, 
the relatives remove them from the canoe and deposit them in the ground. I 
assure you no small ressurrectionary labour was necessary to get at Comcomly's. 
I remain, 
Dr. Sir, 

Yours Sincerely, 

Mebedith Gaiedneb. 



* The Catalogue of Scientific Papers of the Royal Academy of Science (London) lists 
five papers under Galrdner's name, of which three report geographical and meteorological 
observations made In America. 



566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The original has the following device at the end of the letter: 

CJomcomly's history is partly given in Ross Cox's travels and his fame has 
been more generally spread since his sliuU reached England by Washington 
Irving's pleasing compilation of "Astoria." Comcomly was one-eyed. His head 
reached England in the dried state mentioned by Dr. Gairdner, but with the 
features greatly distorted and pressed to one side. The moisture commenced 
to become very offensive in about 5 to 6 months, notwithstanding a liberal 
application of corrosive sublimate; it was maecerated and the brain removed. 

Haslar Museum 
22nd. June 1838 

(Vide letter book 1827-1847) 

The true location of Comcomly's skull and the existence of the 
letter from Gairdner covering the transmission to Kichardson were 
made known in 1939 by A. G. Harvey. But in 1940, during the bomb- 
ing of England, the Haslar Museum was destroyed, along with most of 
its collections. Comcomly's skull (but unfortunately not his lower 
jaw) was one of the very few historic relics saved. Then, late in 1953, 
after extensive correspondence between the Haslar Museum authorities 
and Burnby Bell of the Clatsop County Historical Society of Astoria, 
Oreg., the skull was given to the latter institution and thus returned 
to the vicinity of the original "tomb." 

If the odyssey of this skull had ended here, the present addition to 
the scientific record might not have been written. In 1956 the skull 
made still another trip away from its original resting place. This 
time, with the approval of the Council of the Chinook Nation, it 
crossed the North American Continent to the Smithsonian Institution, 
where it remained long enough for an anthropometric study to be 
made. Since that time the skull has been on display in the Historical 
Society's museum in Astoria. So far as is known, this is the only 
Chinook skull which can be attributed to a known personage. Indeed, 
skulls of known Indians are very rare, much less those of historically 
important Indians. 

At this point, and in spite of the full history here outlined, the 
question might be raised as to how one can be sure that the skull 
studied at the Smithsonian in 1956 is the same one which Gairdner 
removed from the grave at Astoria in 1835, or indeed was that of 
Comcomly to begin with. This is a proper question and in line with 
what a court would wisli to know about tlie sequence of possession 
of material evidence. Retracing the sequence in this instance we may 
assume that Gairdner was certain of the identity of Comcomly's 
grave. After all, Comcomly had been dead only five years and at 
first, following Chinook custom, his body had been in an elevated 
canoe. "Kater, for greater security, his body [had been] taken out 
of the canoe by relatives and placed in a long box in a lonely part 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 567 

)f the woods" (Lewis and Murakami, 1923, footnote 46, pp. 76-77) .^ 
jrairdner does not mention a box, only the canoe; and he adds that 
sometimes ("as may be") burial in the ground occurred 3 or 4 years 
if ter death. The implication is that tliis had happened to Comcomly 
md that digging had been the "ressurrectionary labour" required to 
obtain the skull. In any case the identity and location of the remains 
mdoubtedly would have been well known in a commimity as small 
IS Astoria was in 1835. 

Transference of the skull from moribund Gairdner in Oahu to the 
Haslar Museum in England via Eichardson in 1835-38 is attested 
3y the documents cited. The essential information was inscribed on 
Jie skull itself (pi. 2) probably at the time of its receipt at the 
ttiuseum, judging from a comparison of the inscription and the orig- 
inal museum record. Also, according to Harvey (1939, p. 166), 
'a copy [of Gairdner's letter of transmittal] was discovered by 
Sir Mervyn Bunbury during the summer of 1938, screwed up and 
tucked away inside the skull, where it had been hidden for a hundred 
^ears." 

If all this were not enough to ensure the identity of the skull and 
to prove that no substitution had occun-ed during the many years that 
have elapsed since its exhumation, the unusual f onn of the skull also 
provides some supporting evidence. It will be recalled that Gairdner 
asked the following question of Eichardson : "When the phrenologists 
look at [ Comcomly 's] frontal development what will they say to 
this?" As plates 3 and 4 show, the skull vault exhibits extreme artifi- 
cial deformity — "the Chinook sign of freedom." Although, with the 
exception of Gairdner's question, eyewitness statements that Com- 
comly had a flattened head are lacking, most of the early narratives 
point out that the Chinook practiced intentional head deformation. 
The epigraph from Washington Irving's book is an example. Ob- 
viously, the shape of Comcomly's skull confirms this account of 
Chinook custom and thereby makes the possibility of later substitution 
quite unlikely. 

To return to Gairdner's question, the skull probably never was 
examined by a phrenologist. But an indirect and incomplete answer 
to his question exists in the literature on phrenology. By coincidence, 
John K. Townsend, the Philadelphia ornithologist,® visited Fort 
George (Astoria) in September 1836, just about a year after Gairdner's 
departure for the Hawaiian Islands. While there he obtained, among 



^ Ray (1938, p. 75) Interprets Wilkes's Illustration of Comcomly's "tomb" (pi. 1) as 
an "elevated box interment," basing this opinion, not on a contemporary record, but on 
the form of the structure and on an earlier report that boxes were sometimes used In place 
of canoes (Vancouver, 1798. p. 54). (See also footnote 7.) 

» Townsend later worked for the National Institute, the forerunner of the U.S. National 
Museum, and some of the birds that he collected at the mouth of the Columbia River are 
preserved in the latter museum. 

536608—60 ^38 



568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

others, the deformed skull of a Chmook "chief," ^ which he sent to 
his friend and fellow townsman Samuel G. Morton, the father of 
American physical anthropology. In planning his monumental 
"Crania Americana" (1839), in which this Chinook skull appears as 
plate 43, Morton took into account the methods of the then new science 
of phrenology, giving a series of measurements taken according to that 
system. However, Morton did not feel qualified to evaluate the meas- 
urements, and George Combe, whose essay on phrenology is included 
in the book, states only generalities without reference to particular 
crania. It is noteworthy, on the other hand, that Morton segregated 
the phrenological measurements of the "Flatheads of Columbia river," 
seemingly implying thereby some doubt as to whether phrenological 
principles applied in such cases. Be this as it may, it is amusing, 
now that phrenology is discredited, to see how the deformed skull of 
Townsend's Chinook "chief" rated in comparison with the normally 
shaped sloiU of a Swiss (pp. 268, 277) : 

Chinook StDi88 Chinook Swiss 

Amativeness 2. 1 2. 7 Ideality 4. 1 4. 5 

Philoprogenitiveness 3. 2 3. 6 Benevolence 4. 1 5. 

Adhesiveness 3.95 4.4 Causality 3.95 4.8 

Self-esteem 4. 6 4. 8 Individuality 3. 85 4. 4 

Approbativeness 4. 65 4. 7 Order 3. 75 4. 2 

Firmness 4. 7 5. 5 Secretiveness 3. 2 3, 45 

Conscientiousness 4. 6 4. 9 Cautiousness 4. 4 4. 55 

Veneration 4. 4 5. Destructiveness 2. 7 2. 85 

Hope 4.3 4.8 Combativeness 3.6 3.45 

Marvelousness 4. 05 4. 9 

Is it because of the deformity that the Chinook rates below the Swiss 
in every item of this list, except the last — combativeness ? 

After tliis diversion, it is desirable to return once more to John 
Townsend and Samuel Morton. Because of the friendship between 

'Townsend's accompanying memorandum (Morton, 1839, pp. 208-209) reads as fol- 
lows : "The skull of the Chlnouk is that of a high chief, as was manifest In the superior 
style in which his canoe was decked out, the unusual fineness of the wrappings with which 
the body was covered, and the evident care and attention which had been bestowed on 
the whole arrangement." 

Townsend (1839, pp. 255-256) records the visit to the cemetery as follows: 

"30th [September]. — I visited to-day some cemeteries In the neighborhood of the fort, 
and obtained the skulls of four Indians. Some of the bodies were simply deposited In 
on stakes driven Into the earth. In these Instances it was not difficult to procure the 
canoes, raised five or six feet from the ground, either in the forks of trees, or supported 
skulls without disarranging the fabric ; but more frequently, they were nailed in boxes, 
or covered by a small canoe, which was turned bottom upwards, and placed in a larger 
one, and the whole covered by strips of bark, carefully arranged over them. It was then 
necessary to use the utmost caution in removing the covering, and also to be careful to 
leave every thing in the same state in which it was found. . . . 

"The corpses of the several different tribes which are buried here, are known by differ- 
ence In the structure of their canoes ; and the sarcophagi of the chiefs from those of the 
common people, by the greater care which has been manifested In the arrangement of the 
tomb." 

Considering that Townsend was acquainted with Gairdner (cf. pp. 229, 233), It Is sur- 
prising that he makes no mention here of the latter's visit to Comcomly's grave. For 
that matter it Is more surprising that he does not mention Comcomly. 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 



569 




Figure 1. — Chinook cradle collected by John K. Townsend during his visit to the mouth 
of the Columbia River in 1835-36. It was "formed by excavating a single piece of wood 
about three feet long. Midway between the top and bottom, inside, are little slats of 
light wood, A,A,A, in a transverse direction, on which are placed a grass mat or bed. The 
head of the cradle, B, is an excavated chamber, bounded towards the foot by an inclined 
plane, D, the rounded margin of which supports the child's neck, while the head itself is 
received into the concavity at B. Attached]to the'side of the cradle is the pad, C, made of 
grass, with a loop at the end: this is drawn down over the child's forehead, keeps It In 
place, and causes the flatness of that part so universal in these people. The lateral loops, 
D,D,D, are for the purpose of keeping the child's body In a fixed position. The project- 
ing end, E, is rounded, and answers for rocking the cradle, when poised on it, by a rotary 
motion applied at the opposite end. The head and neck rest on a grass mat or pillow" 
(Morton, 1839, p. 204). 

these two men we have not only the earliest anthropometric descrip- 
tion of a Chinook skull, but also probably the earliest illustration 
(fig. 1) of the type of cradle which Washington Irving mentions (see 
epigraph) as being responsible for the Chinook cranial deformity.^ 
This particular cradle, which seems to have been overlooked in the 
literature on the Chinook (cf. Kay, 1938, pp. 69-70; Underbill, 1945, 
pp. 128-130) , is pertinent here mainly because the skull described by 
Morton, like Comcomly's, is deformed. This is consistent with the 
claims of Townsend for his specimen. Incidentally, the Townsend 
cradle is one of two types of deforming apparatus employed by the 
Chinook. The other type, sketched by Lewis and Clark (see Ray, 
1938, fig. 3) and later painted by Catlin (Donaldson, 1886, pi. 42), 
employed a liinged flattening board to compress the head in much 
the same manner as a nutcracker is used. 

Morton made no special effort to describe the deformities exhibited 
by the specimens he was reporting, being content apparently to let 
the illustrations speak for themselve^.^ In the case of Townsend's 



8 Although the ekull Is still preserved In the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 
phia, Its presence there having been noted In 1857 by Meigs, the cradle Is not In that Insti- 
tution and Its present location had not been discovered at the time of this writing. 

» Morton made his drawings by means of a cranlograph devised by his friend John S. 
rhllllps (for Illustration, see Morton, 1839, p. 294). It consisted of a board 6 feet long 
and 1 foot wide with a short upright piece attached at each end. The skull, which was 
posed against one of these uprights, was viewed through a small hole in the other 
upright. Between the skull and eyepiece, but only 15 Inches from the latter, was a 
square frame holding a piece of glass. The outline of the skull was traced on this glass, 
yielding a reduction to one quarter. From the glass the outline was transferred to paper 
and perfected. Later an artist redrew the picture on lithographic stone. 



570 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

"chief" (pi. 5) , he succeeded m getting a fairly accurate lateral profile, 
but was less successful in the placement of the features within this 
outline. No other aspects of the slmll were illustrated, so these are 
given here for the first time in the forai of photographs (pi. 6). Im- 
perfect though it is, Morton's single illustration constitutes the first 
description of Chinook deformity based on a skull known to have 
come from an early 19th-century elevated canoe interment. This fact 
has been generally overlooked or ignored, because credit is given to 
Boas (1891), rather than to Morton, for defining the Chinook type 
of deformity (cf. Oetteking, 1930, pp. 16-17; Dingwall, 1931, p. 163 
ff.) . By the time Boas came along, of course, it was possible to draw 
broad conclusions on this subject. However, Boas defined the Chi- 
nook deformity type simply from skulls attributed to this tribe. The 
recovery of deformed skulls from the area traditionally occupied by 
a tribe undoubtedly provides strong evidence regarding the type of 
deformity practiced there, but the evidence provided by a historically 
documented skull, and especially one collected before acculturation 
has made much headway, establishes the fact much more convincingly. 
With this in mind, and if for no other reason than to supplement and 
substantiate Morton's classic report, a description of Comcomly's 
skull now is in order. 

CRANIOMETRY 

Having said so much about deformity, it is desirable to take up 
first the analysis of this trait. For this purpose I will use a combina- 
tion of the Klaatsch (1909) and Oetteking (1930) schemes of lines 
and angles. Figure 2 shows a stereographic drawing of Comcomly's 
skull treated in this fashion and, for comparison, a similar rendition 
of the skull of Townsend's "chief" (hereafter referred to as No. 462) . 
Most students follow the Klaatsch scheme alone in describing cranial 
deformities, but so far as the Northwest coast is concerned, Oette- 
king's (1930) elaboration of this scheme cannot be ignored, especially 
since it gives a basis for judging variability. 

In spite of the existence of such schemes, there is still no general 
agreement on the lines and angles best suited for characterizing 
deformity. This being the case, and not wishing to overly complicate 
the drawings, I will report also a few details not illustrated. For 
example, the frontal bone being essentially the area between the land- 
mark glabella (G) and bregma (Br), the amount of frontal flattening 
may be represented by the ratio of the frontal chord length (G-Br) 
and the maximum distance between this chord and the frontal profile 
(measured vertical to the chord). The same is true of the parietal 
(Br-L) and occipital (Lr-B) areas. 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 

Bf " ^ 



571 





Figure 2. — Stereographic drawings of the skulls of Comcomly (upper) and of Townsend's 
Chinook "chief," No. 462 in the Morton Collection, Academy of Natural Sciences, Phil- 
adelphia (lower). The added lines are based on Klaatsch and Oetteking craniotrigono- 
metric schemes. 



572 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



With this explanation it should be clear that table 1 combines angles 
and ratios derived from figure 2 with whatever comparative data is 
supplied by Oetteking. Since the latter has confirmed Boas's finding 
that within the Northwest coast complex of deformity types "Clii- 
nook" differs markedly from "Cowichan" and "Koskimo," this table 
shows (1) that the Chinook tribe really practiced the general type of 
deformity thus designated, and (2) that the Chinook cradles did not 
mould the head uniformly. Of course, infants' heads differ to begin 
with, and handmade cradles vary in their proportions and details, 
so it should come as no surprise that head flattening within a tribe 
varies in intensity. 

Table 1. — Angles and ratios derived from the Klaatsch-Oetteking craniotrigonometric 

scheme {fig. 2) 



Angle or ratio 


Com- 
comly 


No. 462 


No. 
4473* 


"Chinook" rangef 




Male 


Female 


Central angle of Klaatsch 

Angle VNb' 


Degrees 
94 
32 
82 
54 
11 
83 
28 
13 
46 
17 
118 


Degrees 
99 
35 
93 
61 
19 
79 
23 
1 
49 
10 
103 


Degrees 

*101 

*30 

*78 

*50 

tu 

190 
J28 

1-2 
J44 
X2Q 

tl20 


Degrees 
93-105 


Degrees 
93-107 


Angle VtE' 






Angle VsE' 






Angle of GL to EE' 


7-18 
78-92 
23-35 

+ 14 15 

40-55 

13-33 

105-130 


^19 


Angle of BBr to EE' . 


79-93 


Angle of NB to EE'_ 


25-35 


Angle of BO to EE' 


+ 7 — 10 


Angle of NBr to EE' 

Angle of LBr to EE' 


38-53 
10-29 


Angle of OLto EE' 


102-123 






Frontal height ratio 


10.8 

29.9 
28. 1 


11.7 
20.0 
43. 6 


*10. 3 
*32. 1 
*24. 3 






Parietal height ratio 






Occipital height ratio 













*Oetteking, 1930, fig. 1, p. 19 of text; an adult (?) female, 
t Oetteking, 1930, p. 78 of table of measurements; 58 males, 26 females (not all 
measurable). 

JOetteking, 1930, p. 76 of table of measurements. 

Table 2 adds many of the standard measurements and indices for 
Comcomly and No. 462 and includes, for comparison, Oetteking's 
"Chinook" ranges. Both skulls fall within his male range, but No. 
462 tends to be in the lower part of this range. Indeed, were it not 
for the documentation and the evidence that Oetteking regarded many 
of his small skulls as males, I would be disposed to doubt the sex 
identification of No. 462. I have no such doubts regarding the sex 
of Comcomly's skull. 

Does Comcomly's skull tell anything about his age ? Plates 3 and 
4 show that the joints between the bones of the vault (sutures) are 
still visible, but are bridged over in many places. Significantly, the 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 



573 



masto-occipital sutures, usually about the last to close, are no longer 
visible. This could mean that Comcomly was as old as estimated : 65. 

Age is reflected also in the teeth. Indians lived on a coarse diet 
wliich tended to wear down their teeth rapidly. Comcomly's upper 
teeth are well worn, so that all those present have a large exposure of 
dentin. The second molars were lost antemortem, either from caries 
or from destruction of the supporting bone (pyorrhea). In general, 
all this suggests an age somewhat below 65. The possibility exists, 
therefore, that Scouler was misled in estimating Comcomly's age by 
the general Indian tendency to age rapidly. 

In this connection it is interesting to note that No. 462 has open 
masto-occipital sutures and no tooth loss, but more wear of the front 
teeth. This "cliief" could have been around 40 to 50 years of age. 

Table 2. — Standard measurements of Comcomly's skull with comparative data 



Measurement or index 


Comcomly 


No. 462 


"Chinook" range* 




Male 


Female 


Cranial capacity 


1,340 cc_. 
170 mm.. 
161 mm.. 

94.7 

121 mm.. 

73.1 

100 mm.. 
97 mm... 
102 mm.. 
79 mm... 
63° 

150 mm.. 

52.7 

53 mm 

24 mm 

45.3 

40 mm 

39 mm... 
36 mm... 
35.5 mm. 
90.5 

29 mm... 

56 mm 

68 mm... 

121.4 

33 mm... 

30 mm... 
90.9 


1,175 cc. 
168 mm.. 
150 mm.. 

89.3 

117 mm._ 

73.6 

99 mm... 
97 mm.__ 
107 mm 


1,150-1,630 

155-182 

143-170 

81.6-108.4 

115-145 

70.9-89.8 

89-109 

87-107 


1,020-1,390 


Maximum length of vault 

Maximum breadth of vault. . 
Cranial index ._ 


148-166 

138-161 

83.1-102.3 


Basion-bregma height 

Mean height index 

Minimum frontal diameter. _ 
Basion-nasion _ 


102-134 

63.8-85.3 

86-102 

80-103 


Basion-prealveolar point 

Nasion-alveolar point 

Facial angle 




74 mm 

61.5° 


68-83 


62-78 


Diameter bizygomatic max- 
imum . 


136 mm.. 

54.4 

50.5 mm. 
28 mm... 

55.4 

41 mm 

41 mm 

38 mm... 
38 mm... 

92.7 

25 mm 

54 mm 

66 mm... 

122.2 

33 mm 

27 mm 

81.8 


133-151 

46.8-57.6 
48-60 
20-29 

36.2-58.0 

1 37-45 

1 33-40 

82.2-102.6 
19-29 
49-60 
61-73 
105.2-138.5 
28-41 
27-35 
73.7-100.0 


123-140 


Upper facial index . 


47.7-56.8 


Nasal height. . .... 


44-57 


Nasal breadth 


20-26 


Nasal index 


38.5-66.8 


Orbital breadth, right 

Orbital breadth, left 

Orbital height, right 

Orbital height, left. 


35-43 
32-40 


Orbital index, mean 

Posterior interorbital width- 
External alveolar length 

External alveolar breadth 

External alveolar index 

Foramen magnum length 

Foramen magnum breadth- - 
Foramen magnum index 


82.0-102.9 

18-26 

46-58 

58-68 
110.9-141.7 

30-36 

26-32 
83.9-100.0 



*Oetteking, 1930, pp. 32-35, 78-79 of the tables of measurements; 58 males, 26 
females (not all measurable). 

EPILOGUE 

Now that the contribution of Comcomly's skull to anthropology has 
been established, it is necessary to return to the historical narratives 



574 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

for a fitting conclusion of this account. It will be recalled that Com- 
comly met Lewis and Clark and their party, the first of the stream 
of white men to descend the Columbia River. Before and after this 
he saw many ships approach or enter the mouth of the river. How 
he must have wondered about the world beyond the mountains on one 
side and the sea on the other! He was not destined, of course, to 
travel so far in life; only his skull traveled. But then, maybe he 
transmitted some of his longings for travel, or at least for information 
about foreign lands, to his descendants. One can almost imagine 
this to be so, because the remarkable adventure of his grandson that 
will now be outlined is well documented (Lewis and Murakami, 
1923). 

In 1823 the yomigest daughter of Comcomly, then still in her teens, 
married Archibald McDonald ^'^ of the Hudson's Bay Company and 
soon had a son whom they named Ranald McDonald. The father 
apparently saw to it that Ranald did not receive the traditional 
Chinook "sign of freedom." But this does not mean that the boy was 
not free, at least to travel. In 1834 he was sent to school in the Red 
River Settlement in what is now Manitoba, Canada; and in 1839 
he was sent to St. Thomas in southeastern Ontario to work in a bank. 
Bank work did not suit Ranald, but apparently it did foster thoughts 
of further travel : this time to Japan, of all places. Japan, it will be 
recalled, was closed to outsiders in the early 19th century. 

During his childhood Ranald had seen Japanese sailors who had 
been shipwrecked along the Pacific coast near the mouth of the 
Columbia. Memories of this recurred to him now when he heard 
about the Japanese Decrees of Exclusion. Together they proved so 
tantalizing to a boy of 21 that Ranald gave up his job in the bank 
and started off for the Orient. From Canada he worked his way 
down the Mississippi to New Orleans and from there somehow reached 
New York. Late m 1845 he "shipped before the mast" on the 
Plymouth bound for the Sandwich Islands. Finding that the ship 
was going on from there to Hong Kong, Ranald talked the captain 
into agreeing to put him adrift in a small boat off the coast of Japan. 

Thus it came about in June 1848 that Comcomly's grandson found 
himself on an island off the northwest coast of Hokkaido (or Yezo). 
The inhabitants of this part of Japan were Ainu and they treated 
Ranald very kindly. Nevertheless, Japanese law required that his 
presence be reported. This led to a series of interrogations in various 
places ending 10 months later in Nagasaki. During this time, in spite 
of being confined in somewhat cramped quarters, Ranald conducted 
a class in English for 14 government interpreters. In the process 
he himself learned a sort of pidgin Japanese. On April 26, 1849, 



^o The family preferred to spell their surname McDonald rather than MacDonald. 



SKULL OF CHIEF COMCOMLY — STEWART 575 

he was delivered to the American authorities. He returned home by 
way of Australia. 

An interesting sidelight on Eanald's adventure is the fact that one 
of the students in liis English class was Moriyama Einosude, who 
served as the principal interpreter for the Japanese Commissioners 
during Commodore Perry's negotiations on his second visit to Japan. 

In this indirect fashion we get a suggestion of the qualities that 
made Comcomly a great chief. The present-day Chinook, like Ranald 
McDonald, do not have, nor do they need, the "sign of freedom." 
They have no reason, however, to be ashamed that Comcomly bore 
this "sign." 

UTERATURE CITED 

Boas, Feanz. 

189L Second general report on the Indians of British Columbia. Rep. 60th 
Meeting British Assoc. Adv. Sci. (Leeds, 1890), pp. 647-655. 
Chittenden, Hibam Maetin, and Richaedson, Alfked Talbott. 

1905. Life, letters and travels of Father Pierre-Jean De Smet, S.J., 1801-1873. 
Vol.2. New York. 
CouES, Elliott. 

1893. History of the expedition under the command of Lewis and Clark, 
etc. Vol.2. New York. 
Cox, Ross. 

1832. Adventures on the Columbia River, including the nari'ative of a resi- 
dence of six years on the western side of the Rocky Mountains, 
among various tribes of Indians hitherto unknown, etc. New York. 
De Smet, Pieebe-Jean. (See Chittenden and Richardson.) 
Dingwall, Eeic John. 

1931. Artificial cranial deformation; a contribution to the study of ethnic 
mutilations. London. 
Donaldson, Thomas. 

1886. The George Catlin Indian gallery in the U.S. National Museum 
(Smithsonian Institution), with memoir and statistics. Ann. Rep. 
U.S. Nat. Mus. for 1885, pt. V, 939 pp. (In Ann. Rep. Smithsonian 
Inst, for 1885, pt. II.) 
IIaevey, a, G. 

1939. Chief Concomly's skull. Oregon Hist. Quart, vol. 40, No. 2, pp. 
161-167. 
Hodge, Fbedeeick Webb (Editor). 

1907. Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. 
Bull. 80, pt 1. 
Ieving, Washington. 

1849. Astoria ; or, ancedotes of an enterprise beyond the Rocky Mountains. 
Vol. 8 of "The Words of Washington Irving," 1855 ed. 
Klaatsch, Heemann. 

1909. Kraniomorphologie und Kraniotrigonometrie. Arch, fiir Anthrop., 
n.s., vol. 8, pp. 101-123. 
Lew is an d Cl aek. ( See Cones, Elliott. ) 
Lewis, William S., and Murakami, Naojieo (Editors). 

1923. Ranald MacDonald : The narrative of his early life on the Columbia 
under the Hudson's Bay Company's regime, etc. Spokane, Wash. 

536608—00 39 



576 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Meigs, J. Aitken. 

1857. Catalogue of human crania In the collection of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, vol. 
8 for 1856, Suppl., 112 pp. 
Morton, Samuei. Geoege. 

1839. Crania americana; or, a comparative view of the slsulls of various 
aboriginal nations of North and South Ajnerica, etc. Philadelphia. 
Oettekinq, Bbuno. 

1930. Craniology of the North Pacific coast. Publ. Jessup North Pacific 
Exped. (Mem. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist.), vol. 11, pt. 1, ix+391 pp. of 
text, 93 pp. of tables, 11 pis. 
Ray, Veene F. 

1938. Lower Chinook ethnographic notes. Univ. Washington PubL An- 
throp., vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 29-165. 

SCOTJLER, DOCTOB JOHN. 

1905. Journal of a voyage to N. W. America. Quart. Oregon Hist. Soc, 
vol. 6, p. 167. 
TowNSEND, John K. 

1839. Narrative of a journey across the Rocky Mountains, to the Columbia 
River, etc. Philadelphia. 
Undeehill, Ruth. 

1945. Indians of the Pacific Northwest. U.S. Indian Service, Indian Life 
and Customs Pamph. No. 5, 232 pp. 
Vancouvee, Captain Geoege. 

1798. A voyage of discovery to the North Pacific Ocean, and round the 
world ; in which the coast of North-west America has been carefully 
examined and accurately surveyed, etc. Vol. 2. London. 
Wilkes, Charles. 

1845. Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition during the years 
1838, 1839, IMO, 1841, 1842. Vol. 4. Philadelphia. 



PLATES 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Stewart 



Plate 1 




u 



>> 


"o 


13 


> 


<u 




> 


8 


ca 


.o 


u 




M 






■13 


3 




TJ 


H 




f^ 


c5 






s? 


r-i^ 




-+< 




^X) 


-2 




■R. 


C^ 


>* 


<u 


c*q 




•-> 


ni 


■2i 


00 


Q 


<: 


CO 


h 


■^3 


<■ 


'S 


>> 


l:^ 



< 



u 



Smitlisonlan Report, 1130- Stewart 



PLATE 2 



i ..."^ # 








■'^'^"^tj^. 



4 //.r//r/f 



.^yn^rtrct 



k '. 




Inscription, slightly retouched, on Comcomly's skull, probably dating from 1838 when the 
skull was deposited in the Haslar Museum, England, by Dr. John Richardson. The 
following can be clearly deciphered: Museum Haslar/Skull of Comcomly Chief/of the 
Chinook Nation/N.W. America/[Pres]ented by/ — [Ri]chardson. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 Stewart 



PLATE 3 




Front, left side, and top views of Comcomly's skull oriented in the Frankfort position. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Stewart 



Plate 4 




^i'^^S 





Bottom, right side, and back views of Comcomly's skull oriented in the Frankfort position. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959— Stewart 



PLATE 5 





Upper right: Lithographic drawing of Townsend's Chinook "chief" reversed and 
reoriented in the Frankfort position (Morton, 1839, ph 43). Middle left: Photograph 
of same skull (without lower jaw). The zygomatic arch is deformed by an old frac- 
ture. The styloid process has been broken off. Bottom: Superimposed outlines of 
photograph (dotted line) and drawing (solid line) with glabella and the Frankfort 
horizontal coinciding. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Stewart 



Plate 6 




Front, left side, and top views of the skull collected by John K. Townsend in 1836 
(No. 462 of the Morton Collection, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia). 
(See pi. 5 for view of right side.) Orientation in Frankfort position. 



The Muldbjerg Dwelling Place: 

An Early Neolithic Archeological Site in the 

Aamosen Bog, West- Zealand, Denmark* 



By J. Troels-Smith 

The National Museum, Denmark 



[With 6 plates] 



For many tears peat litter had been harrowed for briquettes in 
the large Aamosen bog in West-Zealand (figs. 1 and 2), when one day 
the teeth of the harrow raked up some potsherds and a number of 
flint flakes. These objects, which were lying on the vast brown surface, 
gave evidence of a Neolithic dwelling place. 

In the period that followed, and during the excavation which went 
on through several years, it was fomid that this dwelling place was 
one of unusual importance. Here the oldest traces of grain and 
weeds, as well as the oldest bones of domestic cattle and sheep in 
Denmark, were found. 

The following will describe the investigations step by step in order 
to show how the individual parts of the puzzle — if understood and 
interpreted correctly — unite into a picture of the dwelling place and 
the landscape, the people and the animals, and the whole life of 
a dwelling place as far as a reconstruction has been possible. 

The investigations were carried out by the Department of Natural 
Sciences, the National Museum, Copenhagen. 

INVESTIGATIONS IN THE FIELD 

EXCAVATION OF THE DWELLING PLACE 

Initially two trial trenches were dug across the site in the form of 
a cross. In this way the first information on extent and stratigraphy 
was obtained. As the preliminary results had been promising, fur- 
ther investigations were planned. The fieldwork was begun in 1951. 



1 A condensed translation of original article in Danish, which appeared In Naturens 
Verden, July 1957, and Is here reprinted by permission of the publishers. 

577 



578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




Figure 1. — The location of the Aamosen bog, West-Zealand, Denmark. The area marked 
with a square is shown enlarged in figure 2. 

One of the greatest difficulties connected with excavations in bogs 
is the high water level. Therefore, the most practical thing to do is 
to drain the area under investigation by digging a system of trenches 
all around it. In case it is a larger settlement, it may be divided into 
a number of blocks which can be examined one after another (pi. 1). 

The purpose of an excavation is not only to bring to light the vari- 
ous artifacts, flint tools, potsherds, etc., but also to find out how they 
lie in relation to each other and to make all other possible observa- 
tions. Planning and carrying out such an excavation are difficult for 
two reasons: (1) During the excavation and investigation the site 
itself is destroyed, and observations not made in the course of the 
excavation work will be irrevocably lost. (2) Every excavator works 
with a certain fund of knowledge and a certain expectation of what 
he may find and observe, with the result that some of the things sought 
are found, while others which are also sought are not. In conduct- 
ing an excavation, it is essential to let imagination work upon the 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 



579 




Figure 2. — The Muldbjerg dwelling place, situated in the 8,000-acre Aamosen bog. 
solid circle indicates the location of the dwelling place. 



The 



observations in an effort to see things which have not yet been demon- 
strated, and in particular to record objectively and faithfully every- 
thing found or observed independent of whether, at the time of the 
excavation, it fits into present theories. This means that the work must 
be performed in such a way that it will be possible later on to prepare 
detailed maps and sections showing not only the exact position of the 
objects found but also the different layers and all other observations 
made during the excavation. 

During the excavation a record is kept in which evei-y object found 
is numbered consecutively. (So far 33,231 numbered items have been 
excavated at Muldbjerg.) Each item is classified: Nut shell, flint 
chip, awl, piece of bark, etc., and the coordinates and level of each are 
recorded. All the objects are then provided with a tag carrying the 
number of the object, and are wrapped in paper. The finds are 
gathered daily in small bags (pi. 2, fig. 1). 



INVESTIGATION OF THE DEPOSITS 

Dwelling places situated on the solid ground leave only a thin layer 
of rubbish consisting of flint chips, broken tools, potsherds, and some 
charcoal. Bones are usually much disintegrated or have totally dis- 
appeared along with other organic material. Such a dwelling place 

536608 — 60 JO 



580 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

may have been inhabited continuously for a long period, or the habita- 
tion may have been interrupted for certain periods perhaps covering 
several thousand years. In excavating such habitation sites there is 
no possibility of deciding whether objects found together really are 
contemporaneous. In lakes and bogs this is different. Here, con- 
tinuous growth takes place in the shore zones, and every spring a new, 
luxuriant vegetation of swamp plants grows up covering the remains 
left the previous year. At the bottom of the lake one paper-thin 
layer of dead micro-organisms and pulverized plant fragments is de- 
posited upon the preceding, and little by little, as the years pass, the 
lake will be filled up and become a bog. If we imagine a dwelling 
place situated at the shore of such a lake or perhaps somewhere in 
the filled-up bog, the rubbish and the implements left will be placed 
at the proper position within this sequence of layers. Moreover, the 
bog will preserve not only the imperishable flint and the rather re- 
sistant potsherds but also wood and bark, bones, grain, and weed 
seeds. 

The layers of the bog will not only preserve the remains of the 
settlement, but at the same time the peat and lake deposits will yield 
information on the former plant and animal life by their content of 
seeds, bark and twigs, pollen grains, bones, shells, and other organic 
remains. They also provide us with means for dating the layers. For 
such reasons it is of the utmost importance that these deposits are 
thoroughly investigated and above all that the stratigraphy of the 
layers in relation to the habitation remains is established. 

Just as it is important to be able to reconstruct the position of the 
different culture remains in plane and section, it is equally important 
to be able to reconstruct the position of the different deposits which 
surround the culture remains. Tliis is done by measuring the layers 
in the long peat walls which appear during the excavation. The 
excavation is done in sections of half a meter in width from the edge 
of the peat block formed by the trial trenches (drainage trenches). 

Wlien the wall is dug out, it is cut smoothly plane and vertical like 
a well-laid brick wall. In that way we get a clear picture of the 
different layei's in the section. It is now a question of using the eyes 
to note the color of the different strata both immediately after the 
cutting of the wall and later when the air has darkened the layers. 
The way in which the deposits dry will also give information about 
the type and structure of the layers. It is important to distinguish 
the strata of the same color and structure to be able to reproduce 
this picture. In practice this is done by drawing vertical lines on 
the wall at a distance of 25 cm. Where these lines cross the horizontal 
layers the intersections are marked by matches put into the wall. 
The intersections are then drawn in a notebook so that all the hori- 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 



581 



zontal measures are correct according to the scale of the drawing. 
Next, all the vertical measures are leveled out. In this way it is 
possible later to give a correct picture of the peat wall and the layers 
in it based upon the drawings and the levels (pi. 1). 





Figure 3 (left). — Ash {Fraxinus excelsior L.). 
Figure 4 (right). — Wych elm (Ulmus glabra Huds.). (Drawings by A. Noll S0rensen.) 

The next task is to characterize the various layers that have been 
distinguished. Most of the layers consist of a mixture of different 
components. Fen peat, for instance, often contains the following 
elements: Roots and rootlets of herbaceous plants {Turf a herbacea) ; 
fragments of stems and leaves of herbaceous plants {Detritus her- 
hosus) ; minor parts of alder twigs {Detritus Uf/nosu.s) ; and finally 
mud or, as it is also called, gyttja {Lirmis detrituosus) . Just as a 
chemical compomid may be characterized by a simple formula giving 
the proportions of the atoms in the molecule, it is also possible to 
characterize a deposit by the proportions of the components contained 
in the layer. For the sake of later considerations regarding the 
genesis of the layer, it is important to know exactly how the deposit 
is built up and the components of which it consists. 

The excavation of artifacts, the determination of deposits, and 
the characterization of the composition of the various deposits should 
finally result in drawings both in plane and section showing the layers 
provided with deposit symbols that indicate the elements of which 
the layers are composed. Together with the photographs, the draw- 



582 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



ings in plane and section form the solid basis on which all later work 
is built. 

SAMPLING METHODS 

The possibilities of carrying out investigations in the field without 
the use of instruments and chemicals are limited. Therefore, it is 
important to take samples for later investigation in the laboratory. 
These consist of samples for pollen analysis ; samples for investigation 
of seeds, fruits, and shells; and samples for radiocarbon dating. 





Figure S (left). — Small-leaved linden {Tilia cordata Mill.). 
Figure 6 (right). — Oak (Quercus robur L.). (Drawings by A. Noll S0rensen.) 

The pollen samples are taken in small vials which are pressed into 
the properly cleaned peat wall. The vertical distance between the 
samples is usually 2.5 cm.; in special cases they are taken at still 
smaller intervals. The pollen grains being microscopic, it is very 
important that the samples be pure; i.e., that they are not contami- 
nated with peat from the layers above or below. After the sample 
has been taken, the vial is carefully corked and later sealed with 
paraffin so as to avoid contamination. 

In order to investigate the content of seeds and f niits, small sticks 
and twigs, and remains of insects or shells in the peat layers, larger 
samples are taken, usually about 200 cm. This is done by cutting a 
peat column out of the section. The column usually is 10 cm. broad 
and 10 cm. thick, and is cut into slices 2 cm. thick. Each slice is 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 



583 



jaMO/^UJOQ 




jadiunf 

9SOJ)fSOy 
SaSSDJQ 



3ifui^iy<fn^ ID9Jog-qn£ Of^up/^y 



foajog joisofQ a^o-j 



584 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITXTTION, 1959 

put in a plastic bag and sent to tlie laboratory where it is preserved 
in alcohol. 

In collecting samples for radiocarbon dating, it is obviously un- 
desirable to take out a thick sample which might comprise a period 
of several hundred years. It is essential, therefore, to take a slice 
of peat as thin as possible, preferably less than 1 cm. thick. In 
order to avoid contamination of these samples by mold or mildew 
they are placed in a drying chamber under controlled heat as soon as 
possible, after which they may be kept for years in well-closed plastic 
bags. 

LABORATORY WORK 

REGISTRATION OF ARTIFACTS AND BONES 

The investigation of the JMuldbjerg dwelling place has gone on for 
several years. Usually, the fieldwork was initiated in May-June, 
and often continued until the end of November or even until the 
middle of December (when snow and frost forced an end to it). 
After the return to the laboratory a lot of work had to be done. 
All the bags filled with culture remains were unpacked, the objects 
provided with numbers written with india ink, and the finds com- 
pared with the excavation records. In the laboratory there is more 
leisure for studying the artifacts, and often details are observed which 
have been overlooked during the excavation. In that way the exca- 
vation records may be corrected. 

Many objects are so friable when found that they have to be 
strengthened in various ways. This concerns first of all the potsherds. 
Though a potsherd may appear intact when lying in the peat layer, 
it often falls apart while drying. In such cases it is necessary to 
harden each single bit by means of a plastic-lac. When all the frag- 
ments have been hardened they must be glued together; thus the 
original sherd is restored in a durable way. Frequently bone tools 
and bones are so damaged that they must be strengthened by a 
preparation with plastic-lac or wax. Wooden objects are the most 
difficult to preserve, but in recent years the Department of Preser- 
vation at the Danish National Museum has achieved good results by 
special treatments which make it possible to dry the wood in such a 
way that it does not lose its original shape. 

When all the excavated objects have been examined, prepared, and 
provided with numbers, the worn record books, which are yellow from 
peat litter and stained from rain, can be retyped. In that way rec- 
ords on all the excavated objects are kept in numerical order. In 
this manner it is possible, from the number of an object, to find 
its position and level in the field. However, the information most 
often desired is what has been found along a surveyed section. There- 
fore, it is necessary to make another record of all objects found 
within a given one-quarter square meter. This is done by cutting 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 



585 




586 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

up a copy of the first record and rearranging and pinning together the 
pieces containing the information (type of object, coordinates, and 
level, as well as the number) pertaining to all objects found within 
the same one-quarter square meter in the field. From these slips there 
is written a record showing for each section the implements found 
there, and the pieces of flint, the bones, bark, charcoal, nut shells, 
and other remains — each category separately. 

The bone fragments represent a chapter of their own. They are 
examined at the Zoological Museum, where they are carefully studied 
to determine the animals from which they originated. At the same 
time there is an opportunity to make a number of other observations, 
e.g., as to where the bones had been cut, or how they had been 
broken in order to extract the marrow. Though the bone finds have 
been entered in the main numerical and locality records, it is neces- 
sary, when identifications have been completed, to make another 
numerical record and one arranged according to species of animals. 

DRAWING OF SECTIONS 

The measurements of the peat walls made during the excavations 
have to be redrawn on grid paper with a pencil to form the basis for 
later drawings in india ink. Three copies of each section are made : 
One on which the borderlines of the different deposits are drawn and 
the layers are numbered corresponding to a list of the geological 
diagnosis of the bog deposits; one copy with the borderlines of the 
layers and a projection of all the culture remains (flint chips, 
potsherds, nut shells, bone fragments, etc.) found within 25 cm. be- 
fore and behind the section (in this way a general view of the rela- 
tions between the culture layer or layers and the deposits of the bog 
is acquired) ; and a third copy drawn like the first one but with the 
numbers replaced by symbols that will enable an experienced geologist 
to read the composition of the deposits directly from this symbol 
section. 

INVESTIGATION OF THE POLLEN SAMPLES 

Pollen is the male semen of the flowers, and wind-pollinated plants 
produce enormous quantities which are carried by the wind to other 
flowers. By far the largest part of the pollen, however, is biologically 
wasted. It is sprinkled over the surface of the earth and destroyed, 
except for that which happens to fall on moist bogs or into lakes, 
where, incorporated in peat and mud layers, it may be preserved 
throughout millenniums. The pollen grains consist of an outer wall, 
which is very resistant and which surrounds the plasma. This inner 
plasma decomposes rapidly and perishes. In a single cubic centi- 
meter of peat or gyttja, several hundred thousands of pollen grains 
may be f oimd. They are very small, usually about 20 to 50 microns, 1 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 587 

micron being 1/1,000 mm. The fact that pollen from the same species 
is all alike and is more or less different from that of related species 
makes it possible to determine from wliich plant a given pollen grain 
originated. 

Although it is possible to establish the presence of pollen grains 
in a peat sample just by stirring it in water and placing a drop of the 
liquid under a microscope, it is necessary to apply a careful chemical 
treatment for two reasons. First, the pollen must be concentrated 
sufficiently so that only a few slides need be counted. This is done by 
removing, by various treatments, the extraneous plant remains and 
the possible clay and lime in the samples; the pollen grains are so 
resistant that they can stand treatment with both hydrofluoric acid 
and concentrated sulfuric acid without being destroyed. Next the 
samples are treated chemically to make the pollen grains swell so 
that certain details become more marked. Often it is profitable to add 
some dyestuff which will stain the pollen but not the other components 
of the peat thus facilitating the counting of the grains. 

AYlien the chemical treatment is concluded, microscope slides are 
prepared. A drop is placed on the slide and a thin cover glass is 
fixed on the top of it with molten wax. In this way the slide is 
sealed and can be kept for decades. 

The pollen grains are now ready to be counted. From each 
sample are counted on an average 2,000 to 3,000 pollen grains, which 
usually requires two days by a skilled pollen analyst. The common 
pollen grains, i.e., those of the forest trees and a number of herbs, are 
so characteristic that a determination can be made immediately, but 
now and then pollen grains are encountered which have not been ob- 
served before, and then the difficulties arise. Determination of the 
species of the pollen requires, of course, a thorough knowledge of the 
pollen of contemporary plants. The study of modem pollen, there- 
fore, must be carried on together with the study of fossil pollen. Tliis 
necessitates the preparation of slides of pollen of contemporary 
plants, and the classification of the pollen according to shape, struc- 
ture, and surface sculpture. However, it is often necessary to retain 
the unknown pollen types, so-called X-pollen, not immediately identi- 
fiable, with a description, a drawing, or a photograph for final de- 
termination at a later time. 

By counting the number of pollen grains from the different plant 
species, knowledge is gained of the various trees and herbs which 
were growing in the surroundings of the bog when the peat sample 
was deposited, and the relative abundance of each species. 

SEED ANALYSES 

The peat samples which are taken for investigation of seeds and 
fruits also have to undergo a chemical treatment. They are placed 

536608—60 41 



588 



AUTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



OJ 


U 


IX 


3 


a. 


j:^ 


y 


3 


1) 


u 




1) 


H 


J3 




j3 












^ 



Terriphy-fes 

Alder 

Birch 

Marsh Mangold 

Hemp Agrimony 

Stramberry 

Marsh Bedstraw 

Water Mint 

Raspberry 

Woundwort 

StiichiMOrt 

Bitter-sneet NighlshaJe 

Stinging Nettle 

Valerian 




" 


~~ 




















1 








1 










' 1 








1 










' 1 1 


^ 






1 








mm 


i 










2- 






mi 


B 


4 




^^^ .^^k 










m 


1 


m. 




mk 






i 




m 














ab. 


Telmaiophyfes 

Cowbane 

Sedge (Cladium) 

Coiton- grass 

Yellow Flag 

Gipsy -wort 

Yellow Loosestrife 

Purple Loosesirife 

Buck bean 

Great Water Dock 

Glaucous Bulrush 

Spike-rush 


1- 
1- 




1 


























































































i 














S 






■ 


















1 


I 




























p 






' iM. 










o 






f^ 




1 i 






?- 

o _ 










1 




A 










' i 


i 














1 


Jk 




M 










! 1 


m 




M 










M 


llA 


^ .M 


tLm. MM 






tl 




i^»^^ 


■■■fl 


ttmkMm 


V 




-c -a -o s 


o 

o_ 

o 






pi «H 






























































































































^ 

^ 




^- 






^^ 




5 .-til- ll 

§ J? 1 1 1 ? ■§ i 


s- 

o 

t\i - 

g. 




















































































^ 
















J) 

1 

to 


A 
















c 
o 

o 


i 


1 

1 


ti 

-J 


i 


1 
1 






Lower oomple 
Drift Mud (Culture Layer) 



60 2 



o c 



s 


« 


3 


D 


oJd 


o 




■M 


J3 


cn 




u 


nj 


IX 


4) 



cS 3 



^ I) 



c o 



V. & 



Q.-: 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 589 

in dilute nitric acid, in which they are slightly oxidized so that the 
sample falls apart, and the peat snuff can easily be washed away by 
pouring the sample into a fine-meshed sieve. By this treatment the 
seeds and fruits become air-filled and will ascend to the surface when 
poured into a soup plate, while the larger plant fragments sink to 
the bottom. With a fine brush the single seeds and fruits are col- 
lected on a watch glass and are later sorted according to species and 
placed in sample vials. By comparison with seeds and fruits of con- 
temporary plants the specimens are identified as to genus and species. 
Thus from study of each peat sample it is known, layer by layer, 
which plants were growing on the spot, and in what proportion. 

WOOD IDENTIFICATIONS 

Charcoal, twigs, and pieces of branches found during the excava- 
tion may also tell about the vegetation. Oak and beech are most 
easily determined, usually with the naked eye or with the aid of a 
good magnifying glass. But in most cases it is necessary to prepare 
a thin section of the wood, which is examined under a microscope at 
about 100-times magnification. In that way the fine structure of 
the plant tissue becomes visible, making it possible to determine the 
trees and shrubs from which the charcoal, sticks, and twigs originated. 

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATIONS 

THE TWO CULTURE LAYERS— THE FLOATING ISLAND 

Through the excavation and the surveyed sections we have obtained 
a knowledge of the structure of the bog (figs. 9 and 17) : At the bottom 
of the section we find gyttja and mud sediments which were deposited 
in a lake. Above it is a dark-colored layer 30 to 40 cm. thick consisting 
of plant remains, leaves, and fragments of branches. Fragments of 
pots, bones, flint chips, and charcoal occur scattered within this lower 
culture layer. This layer was also deposited in a lake but in low 
water near the shore. This is followed by a 40-cm.-thick layer which, 
at the bottom, is composed of light gyttja interwoven with fine plant 
roots. Upward the roots dominate and the deposit darkens. At the 
top of this layer the plant roots are partially transformed into a dark 
homogeneous peat mass. Thereupon follows a thin culture layer 
which has a dirty gray color from charcoal dust and broken shells, 
and here we find a great number of flint chips, small potsherds, and 
bits of bones (upper culture layer). At the top the series of layers 
ends with a thick peat layer interwoven with alder roots. 

The striking thing about this section is that it comprises two culture 
layers : a lower one deposited in water, and an upper one resting on 
peat which was formed in a bog. At first glance one would believe 
that the lower layer was older and the upper younger, and that they 
were separated in time by several hundred, perhaps thousand, years. 



590 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Nevertheless the artifacts in the two layers are alike ; even the types 
of the vessels are identical. Further, it was proved that a potsherd 
found in the upper culture layer is part of a sherd found in the lower 
layer, the two surfaces of the fracture matching exactly. There is 
no doubt, therefore, that the culture remains in the two layers are 
contemporaneous, though they are separated by a deposit about 40 
cm. thick. Another significant fact is that there are cracks in the 
peat layer separating the two culture layers, and in some of the 
sections it can be seen how things from the upper culture layer have 
fallen through these cracks and have spread in the lower layer. To 
this we can add another observation throwing light on the problem. 
The pollen analysis shows that the upper part of the substratum (the 
former lake bottom) has exactly the same age as the lower part of 
the peat and gyttja layer that separates the two culture layers. Pol- 
len analysis from the lower culture layer shows, however, that this 
is considerably younger than the layers surrounding it ; i.e., younger 
than the layer it rests on and also younger than the one directly above. 

The only possible explanation is that the upper culture layer orig- 
inates from a dwelling place on a floating island. The inhabitants 
of the island threw their rubbish into the lake, and the waves washed 
a part of these culture remains underneath the floating island, together 
with leaves and branches, and finally the interspace between the float- 
ing island and the former bottom of the lake was filled with washed- 
in plant and culture remains. 

But how is such a floating island created? As mentioned above, 
the pollen analysis shows that the upper part of the substratum and 
the lower part of the floating peat island are of the same age, which 
means that the peat island at some previous time must have lain 
directly upon the layers which formed the lake bottom; namely, 
before the peat rose as an island. The reason for the peat breaking 
away from its base must be a rise of the water level in the lake. It is 
characteristic of bog plants that their roots are hollow and filled 
with air. These cavities are in reality a kind of oxidation system 
that enables the plants to grow in peat poor in oxygen. Wlien such 
peat formations are covered with one-half to 1 meter of water, the 
buoyancy will be sufficient to make the peat layers break away from 
the bottom and rise like a ball which has been held under water (fig. 
10) . Such floating peat islands are still being formed ; e.g., when mill 
ponds that have been drained for some time are dammed (pi. 2, fig. 2). 

THE LOCAL VEGETATION 

The plants that grew on the floating island and along its shores 
have left traces such as seeds and fruits ( fig. 9 ) . On the dwelling place 
itself the vegetation probably was rather poor, and only some grass, 
perhaps some moss, was able to resist the tramping feet. A few larger 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 591 




Figure 10. — Sketches showing the genesis of a floating island. 1, A lake shore with a vege- 
tation of reeds. 2, The water level rises, and buoyancy of the air-filled roots of the swamp 
plants makes the swamp peat tear away from the substratum and rise so that it floats 
on the water. The island becomes inhabited. (The scale is indicated by the size of the 
woman.) 3, Plant remains are washed underneath the floating island, and gradually the 
interspace between the island and the bottom is filled up. (Drawing by B. Brorson 
Christensen.) 

alders and willows were spared, and also the stinging nettles, which 
people avoided. The seeds of strawberries and raspberries found here 
probably do not indicate that these plants grew on the spot. It seems 
more likely that the berries were gathered at another place and left 
at the village site in the form of excrements. The peat island was, 
on the other hand, encircled by a fertile growth of swamp plants, 
the seeds and fruits of which can be found washed in underneath 
the island. Nearest to the shore grew marsh marigold and various 
sedges, while waterplantain, gipsywort, purple loosestrife, yellow 
loosestrife, and mint needed more moisture. The odorous valerian 
lifted its flowers above the other plants, bittersweet nightshade grew 
tall in the open spots of the swamp, and bindweed clung to rush and 
reed. Farther out in the water there was a dense growth of reeds 
and cladium^ and farthest out were the blue-green clusters of bulrush. 
And wherever there was a view through the reeds, water covered 
with yellow water-lilies could be seen. 



536608—60- 



-42 



592 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Also the charcoal remaining from the fires that had been lit can 
tell about the vegetation of the place. Out of 487 pieces of charcoal, 
321 were alder, 65 hazel, 49 oak, 37 willow, 10 elm, and 5 linden (figs. 
3-6) . It is obvious that most of the wood was gathered on the spot or 
in the immediate vicinity, where alder seems to have been the most 
common tree. Less interest was taken in willow, and the bits that were 
found of hazel, oak, lime, and elm probably are rubbish from timber 
which had been taken to the place from the solid land at least 3 to 
4 km. away. 

THE VEGETATION OF THE REGION 

Seeds and fruits do not fall far from the mother plant, while 
pollen grains are spread over a large area ( fig. 7) . The pollen analyses 
thus give a picture of the vegetation of the whole surrounding area. 
The forest dominates, and among the trees it is the oak and its asso- 
ciates — elm, linden, and ash — that prevail. Also the hazel was repre- 
sented, and here and there grew the dark-green yew tree which was 
suitable for the production of bows. Other trees, like the yew, were 
more rare : Crabapple, buckthorn, alder buckthorn, and shrubs such as 
spindle-tree and guelder-rose. The ivy was creeping up the trunks, 
and also the mistletoe was growing with its sticky berries which were 
suitable for bird lime. Apparently the forest was untouched. Man 
had not begun to influence nature — at least not to any appreciable ex- 
tent. The country was covered with primeval forest, and rivers and 
lakes were highways and stopping places for the traffic of that time. 
But, as we shall see later, certain traces reveal that man had slowly 
begun his attack on the immense primeval forest. 

THE FAUNA OF THE REGION 

Although the prevailing primeval forest was not very hospitable 
toward the animals, the bones found do show that it was worth while 
being a hunter. Red deer and roe found their way to the water for 
drinking, and the wild boars rummaged the earth in their search for 
roots. On quiet evenings it would have been possible to hear the small 
hedgehogs potter about in the withered leaves hunting worms and 
insects. The beaver built dams and gnawed the fresh bark, the otter 
went hunting for fishes, and there is no doubt that the muskrat was 
living in the shores of the floating island and was a welcome game 
for the boys on the place. 

A large number of birds lived at the lake. Swans, mallards, pin- 
tails, and shovelers had their nests in the swamps, and in the twilight 
the teal passed over the peat islet with whirring wings. In the lake 
there was good fishing for perch, pike, and trench. 

IN WHAT PART OF THE YEAR WAS THE PEAT ISLAND INHABITED? 

It is somewhat remarkable that these people settled down upon a 
floating island in a big lake. It might appear reasonable that they 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 



593 




Figure 11. — Manufacture of drill points. The arrows indicate location of fracture, a. 
Blade chipped along one side; b, blade chipped along both sides; c, partly finished drill 
point; d, almost finished drill point; e, drill point showing signs of wear, and broken in 
use; /, drill point totally worn down. (Actual size.) (Drawings by A. Noll S0rensen.) 

lived there during the summer, but in the winter one would think it 
an unpleasant place. But is there any possibility of learning what 
time of the year the island was inhabited ? Yes ; various things re- 
veal it : 

During the excavation of the culture layer about 700 willow and 
hazel twigs were found, all of them about 1 meter or more long (pi. 4, 
fig. 1). They were placed together in 3 to 4 bundles, and apparently 
were collected for the purpose of making fish traps. Such plaited fish 
traps have been used up to the present time and are known as far back 
as about 5000 B.C. Cross sections of a great number of the twigs were 
examined by microscope (pi. 4, fig. 2) , and all of them proved to be not 
quite 2 years old, as the youngest annual rings were not fully developed. 
Examination of the present growth of annual rings in similar plants 
during January to October makes it possible to determine at what time 
of year the twigs from the Muldbjerg dwelling place were cut, and 
proves that all the twigs must have been cut at the beginning of June. 

It has been mentioned earlier that frait seeds of strawberry and 
raspberiy were found at the dwelling place. In one case large quan- 
tities were found lying together and in such a way in the peat that 
there could be no doubt that they belonged to human excrement. 
Many of the somewhat larger raspberry seeds had been crushed be- 



594 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

tween the teeth before being swallowed, in contrast with the smaller 
strawben-y seeds. As the strawberry season precedes the raspberry 
season, it is only from the begimiing to the middle of July that it is 
possible to enjoy both of these tasty berries. In this period at least 
the dwelling place must have been occupied. 

A large number of crushed nut shells were found spread all over 
the dwelling place, and, therefore, it is reasonable to assmne that the 
site was inhabited until September. 

The bones give the same evidence. Bones from barely fledged 
birds indicate a habitation in June and July, and finds of bittern and 
other migratory birds point to the summer half year. Characteristic 
whiter visitors among the migratory birds have not been found. 

Hence we are sure that the dwelling place was inhabited in the 
months of June, July, August, and September, while there is nothing 
to indicate that it was inhabited during the rest of the year. 

DATING IN RELATION TO THE VEGETATIONAL HISTORY 

Since the great glaciers retreated from Denmark, one type of vege- 
tation has followed another (fig. 7). Right after the Ice Age the 
herbs moved in, along with sedges and grasses, and here and there 
dwarf willow and dwarf birch. The country was naked and bare, and 
no trees gave shade. Later on, when it became warmer, the birch ar- 
rived, and a little later the dark-green pine trees. At the same time the 
aspen spread, just as did the rowan. Wlien it got still warmer, large 
hazel shrubs began to spread all over the country, but in due time they 
were superseded by elm, oak, linden, and ash. These trees did not mi- 
grate rapidly, but once they had arrived, they were difficult to remove. 
Little by little the trees conquered the country, their shade closed off 
the light from the midergrowth, and it became dark and silent be- 
neath the high tops. At a certain time, however, small changes in the 
vegetation occurred : hazel began spreading again, the elms receded, 
and simultaneously the elders (plantain) appeared for the first time. 
A new epoch was announced (fig. 8) . The first farmers had begun to 
lighten the primeval forest. Development began on a small scale, 
which was to make Denmark one of the least- forested countries in 
Europe. Only a long time after man had begun this clearing work did 
beech appear, but once it had arrived it spread rapidly. Finally, as a 
challenge to the heath, man began to break up the heather and to plant 
spruce. 

This very development can be reconstructed by means of pollen 
analysis. At the same time this method makes it possible to date a 
given sample in relation to the history of the forests. Thus the 
Muldbjerg dwelling place can be dated to the time when the first 
farmers had just begun to clear the forests — or, more precisely, to the 
last part of the oak- forest period. 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 595 





1682 




1369 






1461 




177 




1683 




1685 




1684 



451 





1234 



Figure 12. — Transverse arrowheads made from blades and flakes. (Scale: fig. 75 = 2.5 
cm.) (Drawings by A. Noll S^rensen.) 



596 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 






12 




Figure 13. — Scrapers of various types: 10, Discoidal; 14, oblong; 12, typical blade scraper. 
The scrapers 10 and 14 are made from two "discs" flaked off one after the other. (Scale: 
fig. 10=7.2 cm.) (Drawings by B. Brorson Christensen.) 



MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 597 

RADIOCARBON DATING 

For many years pollen analysis was the most accurate method of 
dating prehistoric finds, but in recent years, as a byproduct of re- 
search in nuclear physics, a dating teclinique has been developed 
which, earlier, one would not even have dared to dream of. By this 
radiocarbon method it is possible to give the age of organic materials, 
i.e., wood, bones, horn, plants, etc., in years. The principles and the 
application of this dating method will not be dealt with here, but 
it may be mentioned that the Muldbjerg dwelling place has provided 
material for a long series of radiocarbon dates. The dating of this 
dwelling place thus is among the most accurate obtained so far. It 
appears that Muldbjerg was inhabited around 2830 B.C. — possibly up 
to 80 years before or after this date ; i.e., most j)robably between 2750 
and 2910 B.C. As all finds indicate that the dwelling place was in- 
habited for only a single summer, the year of this occupation most 
probably falls within the above-mentioned interval (fig. 17). 

THE MULDBJERG DWELLING PLACE AND THE PEOPLE WHO LIVED THERE 

We do not know what the people who lived on the floating island 
looked like. Judged from contemporaneous finds of human skulls 
and bones, there is reason to believe that both men and women were 
rather small, respectively about 165 and 155 cm. tall, relatively slight, 
and with dolicocephalic skulls. At the islet they were living in a 
hut about 6 to 7 meters long and hardly 3 meters wide, and with its 
long axis east-west. Along each side 6 to 7 hazel sticks were put 
down; the pointed ends were found 15 to 20 cm. below the upper 
culture layer. It would be reasonable to imagine that the hut was 
covered with reeds, although we have no observations indicating this. 
In the hut itself large amounts of charcoal and flmt chips were found. 
Outside the hut, along the north side, no culture remains were left ; 
on the other hand, fireplaces and numerous tool fmds indicate that 
the south side was the preferred place to sit, where there was a view 
over the lake. Here the women could sit and watch when the men 
came home from hunting and fishing in their dugouts, and here the 
men sat chopping their flint tools, flake axes (fig. 15), and core axes. 
They also had polished, point-butted axes. With their flint knives 
(fig. 14) and discoid scrapers (fig. 13) they were able to carve and 
shape wooden tools with great skill. Thus arrow shafts carved from 
ash wood were found, and from alder they produced nicely formed 
spoons, as is shown by a specimen found at a neighbormg contemporary 
dwelling place (pi. 3, fig. 2). Discoid scrapers were used for skin 
preparation, and for sewing they probably used pointed awls of bone. 

The study of a number of small, pointed flint pieces has given 
valuable information about the manner in which flmt drill points 
were manufactured (fig. 11). They were difticult to produce, and. 



598 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




1324 




1667 




1847 




Figure 14. — Various types of knives, characterized by the blunted back« (Scale: fig. 
573=8.5 cm.) (Drawings by B. Brorson Christensen.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Troels-Smith 



Plate 1 



-Mf*«I«N6Jl^p,^ 




1. The Muldbjcrg dwelling place during the excavation. Behind the excavation, peat litter 
is being collected for the manufacture of briquettes. 




2. A peat bloLk, cut clctUi and drained, is being excavated. 



Smithsonian Report, 1939 — Troels-Smlth 



PLATE 2 




1. Excavating and surveying culture remains. The coordinates are recorded, and after 
being leveled out the finds are numbered and tagged and wrapped in paper. 




2. The peat islet "Store Holm" in lake L\ iigby S>4, 10 miles north of Copenhagen. Most of 
the islet is floating on the water and is only 40 cm. thick. The Muldbjerg dwelling place 
must have looked much like this. (Photograph by Lennart Larsen.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1 959 — Troels-Smith 



PLATE 3 




Metatarsus of red deer, split in order to get out the marrow; 19 cm. long. (Photograph by 

Lennart Larsen.) 




2. Spoon carved from alder wood, 30.6 cm. long. The spoon had cracked and had been 
repaired by drilling holes on both sides of the crack and tying the parts together with bast 
string. This object was not found at the Muldbjerg dwelling place, but at a neighboring 
dwelling place of exactly the same age (Maglelyng XL). (Photograph by Lennart Larsen.) 



Smithsonian Report. l^SO Trocls-Smith 



Plate 4 




1. In the exposed culture layer 700 twigs of hazel and willow were found placed together in 
bundles. All the twi^s were between 1 and 2 years old. (Photograph by Lennart Larsen.) 




2. A section of willow twig, magnified about 40 times. To the extreme Lk tlic black bark 
layer is seen. Next follows a relatively small, not full-grown year ring (the uncompleted 
second-year ring). Then follows the ring from the first year; and at the extreme right, 
the pith. (Photograph by E. Tellerup.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Troels-Smith 



Plate 5 




a, b, Sherd from a funnel-necked beaker of A type with finger prints in the reinforced 
rim. 7.2 cm. high, c, d, Very thin-walled vessel from the Muldbjerg dwelling place, 
seen In profile and from the front. 6.6 cm. high. (Photograph by Lennart Larsen.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Troels-Smith 



PLATE 6 




, .-^-^S^-, 



a, b, Pierced cord handle belonging to a lugged vessel found at the dwelling place. 
5.6 cm. high, c, Vessel with pierced cord handles for suspension. The vessel was 
found in the lake sediments about 80 m. north of the dwelling place. Pollen 
analyses have shown that it is contemporary with the dwelling place. 19.3 cm. high. 
(Photograph by Lennart Larsen.) 



MXTLDBJERG DWELLING PLACE — TROELS-SMITH 599 




Figure 15. — Flake ax, the most common type of ax at the dwelling place. % size. (Draw- 
ing by B. Brorson Christensen.) 

therefore, they often broke during the process of manufacture. In 
some cases we have succeeded in fitting together the broken pieces of 
more or less finished drill points. In this way it has been possible to 
obtain a sort of slow-motion picture of the manufacture. First, one 
finds small flint blades chipped along one side; next, pieces chipped 
along both sides ; then others in which the point has been finished but 
not yet worn by use ; next, finished pieces which were broken in use ; and 
finally, pieces which had been used for so long that the point was 
worn down and the blade, therefore, rejected. Only a small per- 
centage were used for this length of time. An amazingly great num- 
ber has been found, but for what purpose were they used ? Some of 
the artifacts themselves give the answer. 

A wooden spoon had cracked and had been made usable again by 
drilling a hole on either side of the crack and binding it through the 
holes (pi. 3, fig. 2) . Also some of the earthen pots had broken and had 
been repaired by drilling holes on both sides of the crack, tying the parts 
together with lime-bast, and smearing birch tar and resin over the 
strings and holes. 

It is an established fact that people of that time used birch tar. 
This is known partly on account of the repaired vessels, and partly 
from a single pot which contained a 1-millimeter-thick layer of birch 
tar on the inner side. It is possible that the many rolls of birch bark, 
which were found in the culture layer, indicate that birch tar was 
burnt at the place. 

The bone finds tell that, apart from fish, the people ate wild boar, 
beaver, and roe deer, and, less often, red deer. Accordingly, it must 
have been hunters who lived here. At the same time strawberries, 
raspberries, and hazel nuts were eaten to a great extent. However, 

536608 — 60 43 



600 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 






Figure 16. — Two hazel sticks lashed together with bast string; 31 cm. long. (Drawing 

by B. Brorson Chrlstensen.) 

a few finds indicate the beginning of a new epoch. A few bones of 
domesticated cow and sheep thus were found, and one of the potsherds 
had an impression of a wheat grain. It is inconceivable that cattle 
were kept and cereals were grown on the floating island. The picture 
we get of the family, or families, who lived on the island during the 
months of June to September, therefore, is the following : 

At the coast, probably the Great Belt, they had their permanent 
dwelling place, and there they had a small field in a glade where they 
grew cereals. Close to the residence they presumably had a few cows 
and sheep, tethered or kept inside an enclosure. There is no indica- 
tion of pastures at that time ; presumably the animals were fed with 



muldbjerg dwelling place — troels-smith 



601 



leaves, as they are to this day in remote parts of Europe. Still, 
hunting and fishing were the main occupations. We may imagine 
that the women cared for the household, and that the field was sowed 
by them — nobody else knew better that the hmiter's luck could fail. 
It was the men who hunted seal and sea birds at the coast, and in the 
sununertime the fresh waters called with fish and duck — and the 
wanderlust lived in them. 



older -uvod peaf ' v v v 

' V V V ' 

—culture layer 
Swamp -peat 

mud 



y V V V V V V 



drift mud 



V V V VV V VI 

/vvvvvvv 

V V V V V V V ' 
r y V V V V V 



calcareous mud 




Figure 17. — Schematic section through the dwelling place on the floating peat island. 
K-123, etc., are the numbers of the carbon-14 samples. All dates given are B.C. Ac- 
cording to a correction from the radiocarbon laboratory all dates should be 200 years 
older. 



Three Adult Neanderthal Skeletons From 
Shanidar Cave, Northern Iraq 



By Ralph S. Solecki 

Department of Anthropology 
Columbia University 



[With 12 plates] 



The recovery of three adult Neanderthal skeletons in Shanidar 
Cave, northern Iraq, by the Third Shanidar expedition in 1957 pro- 
vides important new data for the study of Early Man. This arche- 
ological expedition, sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution,^ made 
further contributions to our Imowledge of the early cultures of Iraq, 
preliminary announcements of which have been published (Solecki, 
1957a, b, c, d, 1958, 1959a, b ; Solecki and Kubin, 1958) . 

The purpose of this paper is to describe the circumstances of the 
discoveries of the Neanderthal skeletons; to indicate their strati- 
graphic relationships to one another and their positions in the cave 
deposits; and to provide such information on the individuals repre- 
sented as could be interpreted from the archeological remains. A 
provisional correlation is made between the Shanidar skeletons and 
other Middle Paleolithic skeletons in the Near East. The morpholog- 
ical descriptions of the Shanidar Neanderthals are left to my col- 
league Dr. T. D. Stewart, of the U.S. National Museum, Smithsonian 
Institution. In his special field. Dr. Stewart has assumed the obliga- 
tion of the restoration, description, and evaluation of these Mousterian 
age remains (Stewart, 1958, 1959). 



^ The Third Shanidar Expedition was supported by grants from several organizations, 
Including the American Philosophical Society, the William Bayard Cutting Traveling 
Fellowship of Columbia University, the National Science Foundation, the Bruce Hughes 
Fund of the Smithsonian Institution, and the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropolog- 
ical Research. The Iraq Petroleum Co., Ltd., graciously lent material aid and assistance 
to the expedition In Iraq. The Directorate General of Antiquities of Iraq, as In the 1951 
and 1953 seasons, extended its cooperation. The work of these seasons has been pub- 
lished In preliminary statements and reports (Soleclcl, 1952a, b, 1953a, b, 1955a, b, c; 
microfilm). The field personnel of the Third Shanidar Expedition Included the author 
and his wife. Dr. Rose L. Solecltl, archeologlst of Columbia University ; Philip Smith, 
archeologist of Peabody Museum, Harvard University ; and George Maranjian, physical 
anthropologist, of the Arabian-American Oil Co. at Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. 

603 



604 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



D4 C4 B4 

+ + H' 

_D_5 C5 65 

/ I i- + ■ + -i'l ^^ "^ 

PH t, M,oc>i-i-t ^< i 06 C6 86 j 

■ Ih + + 4-x- 





Figure 1. — Ground plan of the Shanidar Cave excavation, 1957 season. 

The excavation in Shanidar Cave wherein the Neanderthals were 
found now measures 20 m. long by 7.75 m. wide at the top (fig. 1). 
It is stepped back in depth toward the bottom, where bedrock was 
reached at a depth of nearly 14 m. Four major cultural layers were 
outlined in tlie deposits (Solecki 1955a, b) (fig. 2). These deposits, 
from top to bottom, were identified as Eecent to Neolithic (Layer A) ; 
Mesolithic (Layer B) ; Upper Paleolithic, or Baradostian (Layer C) ; 
and Middle Paleolithic, or Mousterian (Layer D). 

During the three seasons of excavation, the skeletons of seven in- 
dividuals, including the three described here, were found in Shanidar 
Cave. Three skeletons were found in Layer A, and four were found in 
Layer D. The latter include the adult Neanderthals and an infant 
foimd in 1953 (Solecki, 1953b, 1955a, b, c). The infant remains were 
studied in Baghdad by Dr. Muzaffer §enyiirek (1957a, b, 1959) of 
Ankara University during the winter of 1956. The Shanidar child 
was found at a depth of 7.8 m. The three adult Neanderthals were 
found above this depth, toward the top of the same deposit, Layer D. 



SHANIDAR I 



The circumstances of the discovery of Shanidar I (field catalog No. 
504 III) were as follows. There had been some trouble with loose 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



605 



Recent 



iMeohthic /QSOOyflS. 

Mesohihic 12,000YRS 

2 7,SO0Yf!S 



UPPER 
PALAEOLITHIC 
(BARADOSTIAN) 




Adult Neanderthal 2L 



MIDDLE 
PALAEOLITHIC 
{.MOUSTEPIAN) 






Shanidor Child 

X 













_-_— ^-i^ 




T 




/9S7 


Extensio 




^\i^ 




\^ 


^^_/ 



Adult Neanderthal I 
Adult Neonacrthal M 



Figure 2. — Schematic cross section of the Shanidar Cave excavation. 

stones falling into the excavation from Layer A. While this condi- 
tion was being corrected, it was decided as an additional safety meas- 
ure to remove a bulge of earth near the top of the eastern wall of 
the excavation. On the day of the find, April 27, a rainy Thursday, 
Philip Smith took a turn with the full labor force to work at Shani- 
dar Cave. At the same time I took advantage of a free day and the 
services of Michael Mansell Moullin, an engineer then employed by 
the Iraq Government, to survey the Zawi Chemi Shanidar site close 
to Shanidar village. 

In my notes of April 27 I recorded that "at tea time, Phil reported 
the calvarium of a man in the Baradost layer — material from layer 



606 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

included Baradostian flints." Smith's notes record the following 
data : "In afternoon while cleaning off east profile just over B 7, found 
human skull under rocks at depth 4.34 meters. No signs of burial 
except for thin dark streak on west side of skull. Skull faces south 
slightly tilted on right side. Large stone resting on top of skull when 
found (not photographed at this period). Surrounding earth yellow- 
ish brown clayey dirt. Heavy rocks above and all around — possibly 
the individual was crushed in rockfall, or lay in very shallow grave 
on which rocks fell. All cranial bones seem present although crushed. 
Rather heavy brow ridges." 

Further facts regarding this discovery are as follows. In order to 
trim the bulge in the excavation wall, Smith put two of our most 
powerful workmen to cleaning away some overhanging stones and 
earth. They took to this task with great energy, recklessly tearing 
out huge chunks of soil and letting them fall down into the pit. Smith 
noted this with disapproval and assigned Adai, our Arab Shergati 
archeological assistant, to this job. The two pick wielders were given 
another task where they could not harm themselves, their neighbors, 
or anything in the ground. 

The assistant had been at work about 5 minutes, when at 1 :30 p.m. 
he struck a bone with his light pick. Putting this bone aside carefully 
and taking up his trowel, he cleared an area to see where the bone 
came from. In so doing, the top of the skull vault or calvarium 
emerged. This was the moment of discovery. He cleaned it off 
enough to be sure that it was not a stone, then beckoned to Smith, who 
had been watching his actions closely, to look at what he had un- 
earthed. It was a reddish-brown dome of bone, with a natural, flat, 
loaf-shaped limestone slab resting on its top rear. The stone was 
roughly triangular in shape, measuring 25 by 25 cm. and 10 cm. thick. 
There was a thin layer of earth between the stone and the skull cap. 
Smith cleaned around the skull and at the day's end, covered the 
exposed calvarium with a small hand screen and a burlap sack as pro- 
tection for the night. Our two night guards were instructed to keep 
careful watch over the specimen till the next day. When Smith 
casually mentioned that evening that a skull had been discovered at 
the cave, we were somewhat skeptical. It was a very great surprise, 
as well as a new responsibility. 

The following morning, April 28, the expedition staff, including 
Rose Solecki, Philip Smith, George Maranjian, and our guest, Michael 
Moullin, and I went up to the cave to see the find. The representative 
of the Directorate General of Antiquities, Sabri Shukri, was away 
at the time. My initial impression of the discovery as entered in my 
notes that day were, "A Neanderthal if I ever saw one." We had a 
lively discussion about it during supper. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 607 

Wlien first seen, the top of the skull was a small thing perched 
on the eastern edge of the yawning excavation and lost in the gloom 
of the huge cavern (pis. 1, 2). It was difficult to realize at first that 
we had an extreme rarity in human paleontology before us. It 
looked like an earthy-colored protuberance at the very end of a narrow 
ledge in a sheer wall of stones and earth. The stark whiteness of the 
limestone blocks and the fragments of rocks around it contrasted 
sharply with the fresh brown-colored soils in the section, crisscrossed 
by pick marks. Seen more closely, and except for the just emergent 
heavy brow ridge, the skull cap looked like a very soiled and broken 
gigantic egg. It lay in the southeast quarter of square B 7, at a depth 
of 4.1 m. from the cave surface at that point, or 4.34 m. below "0" 
datum ^ (fig. 3). The skull faced to the south toward the cave en- 
trance, about 13 m. away. Some broken limestone rocks jutted out 
near it. A preliminary survey showed that the shaft of my 1953 
season excavation had missed the skull by a scant 25 cm., an extremely 
small margin. 

It was very hard to visualize this heavy-browed skull as belonging 
to modern man, as expected if the find were really in the Upper 
Paleolithic Baradostian layer as recorded by Smith. A recheck of 
the stratigraphy showed that this observation was in error because 
of the rockfalls in this quarter. Actually the skull lay in the very 
top of Layer D, the Mousterian layer. 

It was noted that the find lay about 2.75 m. to the north, slightly to 
the east, and 70 cm. above a collection of then unidentified bones 
(field cat. No. 384 III) (pi. 1). The latter were exposed in the 
northeast quarter of square B 9. These bones were being cleaned 
and readied for photographing and drawing. 

Above the thin bed of moist soil in which the skull lay was a 40-cm. 
thickness of limestone rockfall, consisting of broken blocks, above 
which in turn was a solid block of limestone about 50 cm. thick. The 
notch or shelf in which the skull lay was barely large enough to hold 
three people standing in single file. Only one person could con- 
veniently work on the skull at a time. 

Actually the slmll rested in one of three closely spaced thin occu- 
pational strata. These lay within a discontinuous thickness of rock- 
falls extending between the depths of 3.5 to 5.5 m. below "0" datum at 
that point. The stones of the rockfalls were shattered and broken, 
intermingled with patches of light-gray powdery rock meal. Some of 
the soils may have washed in or drifted in following the rockfalls. 
Immediately above the approximately 1.0-m. thickness of rocks above 
the skull was a dark-brown loamy soil layer between 75 and 125 cm. 
thick, identified as Layer C. It contained heavy occupational evi- 
dence, including Baradostian flints. 

* Unless noted otherwise, all depths are given from "0" datum. 



608 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



•-<- 



0-7 



B-8 



B-9 




2 m. 



■3 '"• DAflK BROWN LOAM < C 14 ,,., . 

CONTAINING CHARCOA'l SOILSAMne^J;^ 
FLECKS AND ASHES^ 



4/n. 



5 m 



6 m. 



METERS BELOW 
'0' DATUM 



LAYER A 



LAYER D 



Figure 3. — Cross section of the east wall on line B6-B9 showing the location of Shanidar 

adult skeletons I and III. 



Before any further cleaning was done around the skull, a careful 
appraisal of the situation was made. It was too hazardous to enlarge 
the cut because of the heavy limestone blocks above and all around the 
find. Limestone fragments were found as close as 10 cm. to the east 
side of the skull. It lay in a pocket of loose, moist, dark-brown sandy 
loam containing some charcoal flecks. A broad, oblong, horizontal 
streak of dark soil measuring 8 cm. long and 1 cm. wide was en- 
countered about level with the eyebrows and 5 cm. from the west or 
right side of the calvarium. This streak, containing charcoal flecks, 
extended downward along the side of the skull parallel with its axis, 
widening to a width of 3 cm. It may have been part of a rodent bur- 
row, a fairlj^ common phenomenon in Shanidar Cave. Soil samples 
were taken from around the skull as the work progressed. 

We naturally wondered how much of the rest of the skull, including 
the face, was preserved below the eyebrows, and further cleaning re- 
solved this question. It was evident that the blow on top of the skull 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 609 

had caused much damage to the lower part. The nasal bones were 
broken and bulged outward. The skull height was foreshortened, 
measuring about 10 cm. from the top to the level of the brow ridges. 
However, even in its crushed state, the cranial vault appeared to have 
a definitely sloping forehead behind a heavy brow. The skull was 
canted slightly to the west, although still on an even keel. It faced 
south by southeast. 

Approximate field measurements were made on the skull using a 
wooden rule. The head length was about 21 cm., breadth about 18 
cm. These measurements on the crushed skull of course did not repre- 
sent the original skull dimensions. The biorbital diameter was about 
12 cm. The brow ridges were very prominent and striking ; they did 
not form a complete torus between the eyes, and they had a definite 
lateral flare. They measured about 12 cm. from side to side. Just 
behind the brow ridges was a marked postorbital constriction. A 
bulge occurred in the region of the facial bones on either side of the 
nasal aperture. A fragment of unidentified bone protruded from the 
orifice of the left eye socket. The frontal bone was cracked just to 
the left of the midline, the crack arcing up over the left brow. There 
was a vertical break through the middle of the left brow (pis. 3, left, 
and 4, upper). 

The condition of the breaks in the calvarium could be accomited for 
only by the crushing blow on the rear of the top and left side of the 
head, which burst the sides asunder. All the cranial bones seemed to 
be present and accounted for. The right part of the cranial vault, in- 
cluding the broken parietal, appeared to be in good condition. The 
bones of the left side of the skull vault just behind the frontal bone 
had been collapsed deep into the skull, leaving a V-shaped, jagged 
break (pis. 3, right, and 4, lower) . An area measuring 15 cm. long and 
10 cm, wide was crushed in the cranimn. Fragments of limestone were 
picked out of the loose dark-brown soil filling the top of the cavity. 
Part of the right upper parietal shelved over the break. All the 
sutures of the skull appeared to be closed, giving evidence of full 
maturity. 

We were very much impressed by the freshness of the appearance 
of the bones. They were dark reddish-brown, with black mottled 
patches and specks scattered over the surface. Although the bones 
were very friable, they were m a fair state of preservation and the soil 
peeled away very easily, leaving a damp surface, which dried rapidly 
on exposure. During the cleaning operation, an important consid- 
eration for the preservation of the skull became apparent. It seemed 
that the firm exterior surface of the cranial vault belied the actual 
thickness of the bone, particularly the crushed-in part of the left 
side (pi. 4, fig. 2). There the bone was reduced to almost eggshell 
thinness because the inner bone surface had become detached. Maran- 



610 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 





vQ36 
MAM^^AL BONE 




10 

=±= 



20 



30 

— ! — 



C/MJ. 




Figure 4. — Top view of Shanidar adult Neanderthal I. 

jian's careful attention later in the Shanidar laboratory prevented 
further deterioration of this sort. 

Probing around the lower part of the face revealed that the lower 
jaw or mandible was missing from its expected position. In the course 
of cleaning away the soil, a U-shaped row of blunt projections showed 
up to the left and front of the face. Further cleaning exposed a row 
of teeth in a mandible, for such it was (pi. 3 and fig. 4) . A flat stone 
lay firmly under it. Like the cranium, the lower jaw was canted to the 
west, but at a slightly greater angle. A definite chin was lacking. 
The mandible had been distorted, undoubtedly by the same force 
that struck the skull. The left side of the mandible had been pushed 
forward and inward. The right ascending ramus was not seen, and 
was judged to be lodged in the cranium. The left ascending ramus 
was freshly broken, but the detached part was still present. It was 
here that the Shergati assistant had initially encountered the remains. 
This ascending ramus appeared to be fairly broad, with what im- 
pressed me as a rather shallow sigmoid notch. 

All the teeth, with the exception of two medial incisors, seemed to 
be present. There was a small gap between the right canine and the 
first right premolar, probably due to a fracture in the mandible. The 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 611 

teeth were worn down flat and fairly even, with no protrusion of the 
canines. The lower and upper front teeth exhibited curious wear. 
They were rounded from front to rear. The third molar seemed to be 
slightly larger than the second, and the latter in turn was slightly 
larger than the first. 

Below, but to the front and right of the lower jaw, was a bone 
fragment that looked like a piece of ordinary mammal bone. It was 
darker in color than the skull. 

Parts of the postcranial skeleton could be seen projecting out of 
the earth below and to the east of the lower jaw. Immediately to the 
east and touching the jaw was a slab of flat, rotted limestone of then 
undetermined dimensions. The stone lay between the skull and the 
presumed remainder of the skeleton proper. Further cleaning exposed 
the neck or cervical vertebrae in the angle between the lower jaw 
and the skull. The vertebrae, the first apparently still articulated 
with the skull, were contorted up to about the lower level of the eye 
sockets, then arched downward to the left side of the skull. The slab 
of limestone noted above cut the neck vertebrae at the fourth cervical. 
What appeared to be a collar bone or clavicle jutted out of the earth 
next to the vertebrae. 

The soil around the lower part of the face was a dark-brown sandy 
loam, containing flecks of charcoal, bits of limestone, and small frag- 
ments of bone. Thirty-five cm. to the west of the skull, close to the 
edge of the excavation, was a small hearth consisting of ashes and 
charcoal. This hearth was undoubtedly contemporaneous with the 
individual's remains. 

When fully exposed in its niche on the narrow excavation shelf, 
the skull made an awesome sight. It was obvious to even the most 
casual of viewers that this was the head of a person who had suffered 
a sudden and violent end. The bashed-in head, the displaced lower j aw, 
and the unnatural twist of the neck were mute evidence of a horrible 
death. My deduction that this was an antemortem, and not a post- 
mortem, accident is based upon the observations that the head, neck, 
and lower jaw, although greatly disturbed, still formed a unit, as 
though originally joined by flesh. The broken bones of the skull 
vault indicated that a sudden compression of a filled skull had caused 
it to burst at the sides. 

It was apparent that the rest of the skeleton lay to the east under 
tons of earth and stones at the same depth as the skull — over 4 meters. 
The uncovering of the postcranial skeleton presented an excavation 
problem for which two solutions were possible. The first was to 
remove the skull, then uncover the postcranial skeleton without fear 
of damage to the skull. The alternative was to seal the skull in 
place under a protective matrix, uncovering the entire skeleton as a 
complete unit. The latter method was attractive, since, when exca- 



612 AisnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1959 

vated, the whole skeleton could be examined in situ. However, after 
considering the dangers and risks of this plan, I decided on April 28, 
to remove the skull before attempting to dig down to the skeleton. 
In the removal of the overburden, some stones would certainly fall 
down the side of the excavation and possibly cause the wall to slump 
down carrying the skull with it. Furthermore, the necessity of using 
explosives to remove several boulders above the remains was foreseen. 
Actually three blasts were set off on May 11. 

In removing the skull, the most expedient means seemed to be to 
take the cranium and mandible out as a unit in a shell of plaster of 
paris, rather than try to remove each separately. The whole casing, 
w^hen finished, looked like a huge egg, 76 cm. long and 45 cm. in diam- 
eter, nestling on the ledge. It was placed in a strong padded box 
provided with two long poles nailed securely on each side for carrying. 
On April 29 two men transported the priceless burden down to the 
waiting vehicle at the base of the mountain trail. The skull was 
unpacked at our field laboratory in the Shanidar police post and 
turned over to Maranjian. He gave it painstaking attention, cleaning 
it, mending breaks, and preserving it from further deterioration. 

Before any work was done to expose the skeleton, a number of 
observations were made on the profile of the cut, and photographs and 
sectional drawings were made. It was evident that the remains of 
Shanidar I had been sealed in an occupational stratum between two 
separate rockfalls, as in a trap. The earlier of the two rockfalls was 
represented by a layer 90 cm. thick. Shortly after reoccupation of 
the site following this rockfall, perhaps only a few hundred years 
later, there was another rockfall, dislodging about the same thickness 
of stones as earlier, killing our unfortunate Shanidar I man. The 
debris of stones sloped downward from east to west. The top of this 
covering above the skeleton was about 3.5 m. from the surface. 

It was decided to remove the overburden above the postcranial 
skeleton by incorporating the work in our established excaA^ation grid 
system (fig. 1). The remains lay in the southern half of square A 7. 
The grid was extended over the area in four 2-meter squares, A 7, 
X 7, A 8, and X 8. The layers were excavated for convenience and 
control in levels of 25 cm. 

After Layers A and B were stripped off, a heavy occupational zone 
of the Baradostian layer (Layer C) was found to extend to a depth 
of 3.5 m., or to the upper boundary of the heavy rockfall deposit. 
The Baradostian peoples seem to have adjusted the cave floor to suit 
their needs, as there were abundant signs that parts of the floor had 
been scooped out and modified. Some flint flakes and fragmentary 
mammal bones were recovered at a depth between 3,5 and 3.75 m. 
indicating that some material probably filtered down through crevices 
in the rocks from above. An increase in the amount of yellow-brown 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 613 

soil with many fragments of limestone and rockmeal was observed in 
tlie 3.76^.00 m. level. Some fragmentary bones, provisionally iden- 
tified as mammal, were found at this depth. A hearth was observed 
in the northwest part of the section. In general, at a depth of 4.00- 
4.25 m., still above the skeletal remains, the soil was a yellow-brown 
sandy loam and contained many limestone fragments. Fragmentary 
mammal bones, some of which showed traces of burning, were noted 
and collected. At a depth of about 4.15 m.., directly over the skeleton, 
in the left-central part of square A 7, there were a number of smaller- 
sized limestone rocks loosely clustered together in an ovate heap (fig. 
5). They consisted of angular, blocky, portable-sized stones, consti- 
tuting a loose group when compared with normal rockf all concentra- 
tions. The soil among these stones was a loose brown sandy loam, 
forming a contrast with the yellow-brown sandy loam above. I raised 
the question early in my notes whether these stones were part of a rock- 
fall or were intentionally placed over the skeleton. Rockmeal, usually 
associated with rockfalls, was absent. Altogether the stones over the 
skeleton weighed probably not more than a couple of tons. It looked 
like an unusual pocket of smaller stones among a lot of larger stones — 
a cluster superimposed upon a layer. 

The area to the immediate north and sides of the cluster appeared 
to be relatively clear of stones, as though they had been removed and 
piled in a heap. The soil just to the north of the heap of stones was 
a very dense and compact yellow loam, which contrasted with the 
brown loose soil in the stone covering. The yellow loam contained 
occasional flecks of charcoal, perhaps washed in from above. 

The stones just to the south and southeast of the heap were part 
of the compact layer, with no brown soil between them. Instead, the 
soil around these massive blocks was composed of rockmeal. Unlike 
the stones in the heap, these stones were removed with considerable 
difficulty. 

When the first few stones were picked off the heap, it was found 
that a number of well-preserved but fragmentary mammal bones 
were scattered among them (fig, 6). Tliese included two ribs, some 
vertebrae, and several incisors. A large unidentified bone lying to 
the northwest and at a slightly higher elevation than the skull had 
been squashed as flat as tissue. Some flint flakes also were recovered, 
among them one which was broad and had a faceted basal platform ; 
this was a Mousterian type. 

There were abundant indications that Shanidar I was associated 
with an occupational horizon. The bones lay on a dark-brown soil 
zone containing flecks of charcoal, fragmentary mammal bones, and 
flint flakes. Under the sekeleton this layer measured 10 cm. thick. 
Below this the soil changed sharply to a lighter brown color. At 
least two hearths were found just below the skeletal remains. One 



614 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




© 
A-6 



DEPTH 4.25m. BELOW O DATUM 
SII4/57 



© 

x-a 



Figure 5. — Heap of stones lying over Shanidar adult Neanderthal I. 



of these, under the right leg, was evidenced by a concave-sectioned 
streak of burned earth and charcoal 12 cm. long and about 3 mm. 
thick. Another carboniferous soil streak was found just to the north 
of the left forearm. 

As we exposed the skeleton, there was increasing evidence that this 
individual had been killed on the spot by a rockfall. Bones were 
observed to be broken, sheared, and crushed. Some stones were in 
direct contact with the bones. Various parts of the skeleton thus 



Smithsonian Report. 1 ''5'' Solecki 



Plate 1 




Recording the discovery of the skull of Shanidar I (a). 'I'he stone found over the skull is 
before it. The workman with the Arab headdress, standing by, discovered this find in the 
east wall of the excavation. Philip Smith, on the ladder, is taking notes. George 
Maranjian is taking a photograph. Shanidar III (b) is being exposed 2.75 m. away from 
Shanidar I. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Solecki 



Plate 2 




Clearing away part of the loose earth above the skull of Shanidar 1, temporarily covered 
before removal (a). It was found at a depth of 4.1 m. below the surface, or 4.34 m. below 
"0" datum in the top of the Mousterian layer. The find spot of Shanidar III {b) was at 
a lower level, 5.0 m. below the surface, or 5.4 m. from "0" datum. The successive rockfalls 
are shown. The step in the excavation wall at the lower left indicates the boundary of the 
1953 season excavation, showing by what a small margin the skull of Shanidar I was missed 
that season. 



Smithsonian Report. iq5<5 Solecki 



Plate 3 




Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Solecki 



Plate 4 




The skull of Shanidar I. Upper: As It was exposed in the laboratory at Shanidar. It repre- 
sents a"classic" type Neanderthal, with a divided brow ridge like that of the Galilee Neander- 
thal skull. The top part of the Mousterian layer within which Shanidar I was found is 
dated at 46,000 years by the radIocarbon-14 method. Lower: The crushed condition of the 
skull. The bones of the left side had been pushed In toward the base. The friable nature 
of the unmlnerallzed bones is shown. A fragment of mammal bone is lodged against the 
right parietal. The skull was cleaned and conditioned for the journey to Baghdad. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Solecki 



Plate 5 




Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Solecki 



Plate 6 







Smithsonian Report. 1''59 — Solerki 



Plate 7 




Shanidar I. Upper: The feet bones, separated from llic legs b\ Uic sLuuci {a). 
A bone {b) was field identified as the distal end of the left femur. Lower: The 
broken bones of the lower legs, showing the displaced positions of the left tibia 
and fibula. Also field identified were the pieces of the left femur {a, b), and the 
right patella (c). 




The relative positions of Shanidar I, II, and 111 in bhanidai Ca\(.. bliamJar II (arrow in 
opposite or west wall) was found at a depth of 7.25 m. from the surface, or 7.25 m. from 
"0" datum. The large rockfall is indicative of some of the massive rockfalls in Shanidar 
Cave. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Solecki 



PLATE 9 




Lifting the cast containing the postcranial skeleton of Shanldar 1 Iruui its resting place in 
Shanidar Cave. The feet had been removed in a separate cast, shown in the right fore- 
ground. The main shaft of the excavation Is to the right of the author (right rear). Also 
helping in the lift is Tariq Mutwalli (left foreground), the representative of the Directorate 
General of Antiquities of Iraq. Shanidar II has also been prepared for removal. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Solecki 



Plate 10 




The smashed skull of Shanidar II in the Mousterian deposits of the west wall of Shanldar Cave. 
The heavy brow ridges and the deep eye sockets may be distinguished in this full-face view. 
The lower jaw was broken over a stone as shown. The stone (a) to the left of the skull was 
found resting on the cranium. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Solecki 



PLATE 11 




c^ "13 Oj 
U C •- 



— ^ ^-, <u 



O M c ^ 
— ^ <U -— nS 

-^ _c -^ -d 



s £ 


OJ 


C/2 


2 5 


fs 


-a 


ri nj 






« "13 




^ 


« 


CJ 








> 


-^ o 


£>0 



ii s 



6C — 





_c 


60 


O 


M 




C 


4-> 


3 


E 


]?. 


3 


u. 


^ 


c 


<s 


as 




o 


*-" 


.^ 




1) 


4) 


^3 


S 


_Q 




-d 


q 


-T! 


sT 






h 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Solecki 



PLATE 12 




The hearths, one above the other (a), contorted out of shape by the rockfall which killed 
Shanidar III (b), who lay in the same level. The remains of Shanidar III were badly broken 
and smashed bv the rockfall. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



615 



NORTH WALL OF EXCAVATION 



CRUMBLING BONe 



RODENT FEMUR 



ANIMAL TEETH— ^l TECTH 

/oa/eiNA!>x ' 



[POSITION I 
^ Of SKULL ' 
\(fi£MOVED} ' 




Figure 6. — Locations of animal bones found on and among the stones lying over Shanidar I. 

had been crushed upon underlying stones of small size. Other bones 
were obviously displaced, and some could not be located. From the 
breakages and displacement of the bones, it appeared tJiat the direc- 
tion and thrust of the rockfall had been downward to the north and 
west. Of course, some shifting of the stones after the rockfall could 
have taken place. 

When fully uncovered, the skeleton was found to be extended full 
length on its back in an east- west direction (pi. 5 and fig. 7). Ap- 
proximating the position of the skull, which had already been re- 
moved, the length of the skeleton from head to feet was about 160 cm.^ 

The width across the shoulders was about 38 cm., and the distance 
from the neck to the hips, about 40 cm. The force of the stone fall 
seems to have been greatest on the individual's lower legs, his left 
hip, and the upper part of his chest. The feet, which lay higher than 
the rest of the body, had been cut off at the ankles and jutted outside 
the heap of loose stones in a relatively stone- free area. 

In the upper part of the postcranial skeleton (pi. 6, left) it was 
noted that the left shoulder was higher than the right. The left 
collar bone or clavicle was in approximately normal position; the 
left shoulder bone or scapula was broken. The right scapula and 

8 Using bone lengths, Dr. Stewart (1959, p. 277) estimates by modern standards a stature 
for Shanidar I of 5 feet 7 to 8 Inches. 



536608—60- 



-44 



616 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




fe 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 617 

right clavicle could not be identified under field conditions. There 
appeared to be a first rib arched under the left clavicle. A large, 
flat, limestone slab lay under the left shoulder and upper left arm. 
About 5 cm. of earth lay between the skeleton and the stone. The 
right upper arm was not recognized in the field. Later, in Baghdad, 
Dr. Stewart discovered (1959, pp. 277-278) that Shanidar I had an 
underdeveloped right scapula, clavicle, and humerus. He believes that 
this cripple's useless right arm had been amputated in life just above 
the elbow. This discovery accounts for part of our difficulty in 
identifying this part of the skeleton. Furthermore, the surviving 
parts of the right arm and shoulder had been caught underneath the 
right side of the rib cage. In contrast, the left arm lay with the elbow 
close to the body, with the forearm across the chest. The proximal 
end of the left humerus was shattered, and its midshaft was crushed 
under a stone. The bones of the left forearm, the radius and ulna, 
were somewhat separate and broken under stones. The vertebrae of 
the thoracic region were displaced to the right side. The ribs also 
were displaced to the right side, broken, split, and crushed. 

The hip bones had suffered greatly in the rockfall (pi. 6, right). 
There were several double-fist-sized angular limestone fragments and 
two larger stones in this area. Adding to the confusion in this region 
was a loose scapula and about 16 other loose bones provisionally identi- 
fied as of mammal origin. The ilium of the left hip was displaced 
head ward at an acute angle and fractured over a left rib bone. I noted 
that there appeared to be a broad sciatic notch in the pelvis, generally 
considered a female trait among modern races, but Dr. Stewart has 
judged the sex to be male. 

At and below the right hip joint was a heavy concentration of broken 
mammal bones and small stones, among which a bone provisionally 
identified as the left patella or knee cap was found. The shaft of the 
right femur was broken and crushed, but still in place, with the right 
patella at the inner side of the distal end of this bone. The left femur 
was missing from its place. 

Five stones were removed from the area of the lower legs. The left 
tibia lay dislocated, over and at right angles to the axis of the right 
tibia, both bones crushed together under a stone 33 cm. long (pi. 7, 
upper) . Fragments of the bones were found adhering to the underside 
of this stone. The proximal end of the left, tibia lay over the proximal 
end of the right tibia (pi. 7, lower). The left fibula, also much dis- 
placed from its joint with the left foot, lay about 17 cm. to the west 
side of its normal position next to its companion bone. The stone had 
sheared across the distal shaft of the right tibia, leaving the broken 
joint end still in articulation with the right foot. 

Although compressed, the feet had not been smashed, presumably 
because of the cushioning effect of the soil and the fact that heavy 



618 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

stones did not actually strike them. The feet were about 15 to 20 cm. 
above the level of the rest of the body, close together, with the toes ex- 
tended and pointing downward. The right foot, which lay slightly 
higher and more forward than the left, was exposed first. The heel of 
the left foot had been displaced to the north side, presumably by the 
stone which had torn away the left leg. The distal ends of the right 
tibia and fibula, cleanly broken, were found in articulation with the 
bones of the right foot. 

About 23 cm. south of the right foot was found the knob end of a 
large bone, provisionally identified as the distal end of the missing left 
femur. About 10 cm. to the northwest of the left foot was found a 
section of the shaft of a large bone, which could not be positively 
identified, but may also have been part of the missing left femur. 

My reconstruction of this fatal accident is that the individual had 
been killed by a rockf all while standing on the sloping cave floor fac- 
ing the east. The fall of stones which struck him was a minor wave of 
a larger ceiling collapse toward the front of the cave. His body was 
not completely covered with stones, although the impact was forceful. 
Fortunately also for the preservation of the remains, the soil absorbed 
some of the blow. Had the stones been of tremendous weight, or if he 
had been caught against a solid bed of stones, his remains would 
have been crushed into an unrecognizable pulpy layer. 

A number of stones must have fallen on him within split seconds, 
throwing his body backward full length down the slight slope. Pre- 
sumably the first stones struck him on the head and across the feet and 
legs. The latter members were close together, with the left leg slightly 
flexed toward the right. The feet were caught fast under debris, 
while the lower legs were struck by two stones. One of these ripped 
the lower left leg from its foot, twisting the leg on its axis and turning 
it at a right angle to its opposite member. Simultaneously the other 
stone sheared off the lower right leg against another stone like a 
butcher's cleaver, crushing the upper part of the lower left leg against 
it. Some of the force of the blow must have been to the northwest as 
well as downward. His left upper leg must have been smashed by a 
very heavy impact, since the left pelvic bone was forced headward over 
the lower ribs and the left femur was displaced. Possibly the section 
of large bone found a few centimeters to the north of the ankles, and 
another broken bone found to the south of the feet, are pieces of the 
left femur. 

In falling backward, his body twisted to the right, pinning down 
his useless stump of a right arm. His left arm and hand, drawn 
protectively to his chest, were crushed into his ribs and spine. At 
the same time, his lower thoracic vertebrae were thrust to the right. 

His head and neck were severed from the trunk and left in an 
uiuiatural attitude. His head faced over his right shoulder, at a right 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 619 

angle to his chest. The lower jaw was dislocated to the front and 
left side of the cranium and broken against a flat stone. 

The many broken and split mammal bones over and around and in 
direct contact with the skelton have been mentioned. Two especially 
thick concentrations are noteworthy : one directly over and slightly 
to the east of the pelvic area, and another over the left shoulder and 
left upper arm. These masses of bones could have been rodent nests. 
The eccentric position of some of the individual's bones and the aj)- 
parent absence of others might be laid to rodents. Thus, animal 
action was very likely responsible for the strange displacement of the 
left fibula and for the absence of the left femur from its normal 
position. The shifting of soils and stones could not have produced 
this effect. 

I believe that survivors of the rockf all returned after a while, and 
seeing what had happened, heaped some loose stones, the closest at 
hand, over the unfortunate's remains. Some of the loose mammal 
bones lying on top of and among these stones may have been part of 
a funeral feast. Some of the mammal bones crushed mider the stones 
were certainly not the result of rodent action. Eventually a few 
centimeters of occupational deposit accumulated over the heap, fol- 
lowed by another rockfall, which sealed off the Mousterian deposit in 
this quarter. Thus ended a people and an age at Shanidar Cave. 

Although he was born into a savage and brutal environment, Shani- 
dar I provides proof that his people did not lack in compassion. 
Here was an armless cripple, a ipre-sapieTis individual, who could 
barely forage and fend for himself. We must assume that he was 
accepted in his society and supported by his companions throughout 
his lifetime. That he made himself useful around the hearth is 
evidenced by the unusual wear on his front teeth. It indicates pre- 
sumably that in lieu of a right arm he used his jaws for grasping. The 
stone heap over his remains shows that even in death his person was an 
object of some esteem, if not respect, born out of close relationship 
against a hostile environment. 

Two flints were found close to the skeleton (pi. 6, left; fig. T), but 
these were not necessarily part of Shanidar I's tool kit. One was an 
oblong gray chert flake measuring 3.3 cm. long, 3.1 cm. wide, and 0.3 
cm. thick. It has a beveled edge on one long side showing use retouch. 
This specimen was found 15 cm. to the north of, and slightly lower 
than, the left shoulder. On the opposite side of the skeleton, touch- 
ing the inner side of the ribs, was another flint. It was a black flint 
flake showing no retouch. 

As the skeleton was exhumed and cleaned of earth, the bones were 
coated with a solution of Nicol cement (pi. 8). Since our field obser- 
vations on the remains in situ could never be as thorough as under 
controlled conditions in the laboratory, it was thought that the entire 



620 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

skeleton should be removed en hloc. Each separate bone could then 
receive the attention it required, and the whole skeleton could be 
studied at leisure. Therefore, I determined that we should encase the 
skeleton as it lay. Since the feet and adjacent parts appeared to form 
a reasonable unit, I decided to make them a separate package. The 
body proper, including the lower limbs, made another unit of manage- 
able size. On May 30, after the bones had been thoroughly coated 
with a protective film, we packed a sheathing of cotton and waste over 
the bones. Over this we put successive strips of burlap cloth soaked 
in plaster of paris. For rigidity and strength, a frame of wood and 
lath was put over and around the skeleton. After the top of the skele- 
ton was covered sufficiently, we undercut the remains, adding succes- 
sive strips underneath. A number of stones were encountered below 
the remains and had to be included in our casing. In this manner, the 
body of the skeleton was encased in one block, and the feet in another. 
The removal of the feet was a simple matter ; that of the larger casing 
was quite another, necessitating the combined strength of seven men to 
raise it to the top of the excavation (pi. 9) . 

The following day. May 31, a team of eight men was organized to 
carry the larger cast down the trail. A four-poled rig of tree limbs 
was formed into a sort of suspension carriage, two poles on either side 
of the cast. A man was positioned at the end of each of the poles. 
It looked like the prototype of a knee-action vehicle. The men had 
gone no more than 50 yards when it became obvious that more man- 
power was needed. I had to send out into the fields to impress five 
more men into service. The portage went easier with the larger crew. 

The casings were boxed that night, and on June 1, at 5 :30 a.m., left 
Shanidar police post by truck for the railroad station at Erbil, ac- 
companied by an armed escort of three policemen riding high on the 
box. 

SHANIDAR n 

The discovery of Shanidar II (field cat. No. 619 III; pis. 8, 9, 10), 
on May 23, during the last week of the season at Shanidar, was almost 
overwhelming. I had ordered one of my ablest Kurdish workmen, 
Mohammed Amin, to clean the west wall of the excavation for dia- 
graming. This was one of the last stages of our work before closing 
down the excavation for the season. Wall cleaning is done by peeling 
or scraping away thin sections in order to expose fresh surfaces for 
detailed observation and to facilitate distinguishing soil changes. In 
so doing, the workman's trowel exposed the edges of several teeth at a 
depth of 7.25 m. from "0" datum in square D 8 of Layer D (figs. 1, 
8, 9). The worker, being well trained, called me to the spot to make 
an examination. I could not decide immediately what he had dis- 
covered. The teeth were barely visible in the section, but appeared to 



D-S 



D'4 




OF CAVE 



Im. 



2m. 



3m. 



lOm. 




LAYER 8 



LAYER C 



SANDY LOAM 

HEARTH 




MIXED '^-^^LAY_^ 




EXCAVA TED I9SI - I9S3 
NOW FILLED WITH DEBRIS 



METERS BELO* 
15m 'O' DATUM 



LAYER D 



J 



BED ROCK 



ing 



D-13 



D-12 



D-ll 



D-IO 



0-9 



D-B 



0-7 



0-e 



OS 



D-4 



O'DATIM 



Im. 



BLACK TOPSO/L 

l*DTHS A 



SURF A CE 



OF CAi^E 



2m. 



lOm. 



Ilm. 



14m. 



METERS BELOW 
15m 'o' DATUM 




LAYER A 



LAYER B 



LAYER C 



LAYER D 



CROSS-SECnON OF WEST WALL ON LINE DI3- 03 
SHAN/OAR CAVE S/30/57 



EXCAVATED I9SI - 1953 
NOW FILLED WITH DEBRIS 



J 



BED ROCK 



Figure 8.— Cross section of west v-all of the Shanidar Cave excavation on line Dl3— D3 showing 

position of skull of Shanidar II. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



621 




Uh 



622 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

be fixed in a jaw. I thought it might be a pig, or some other mammal. 
Because at the time there were other pressing duties connected with 
the recovery of Shanidar I, I drew a large circle around the teeth, and 
stuck a surveying pin in the earth near them in order to mark the spot 
so that caution would be exercised in the vicinity. The worker was 
ordered to proceed with cleaning the wall until we were ready to ex- 
plore the find further. 

It was not until 2 days later, after the entire western wall had been 
cleaned for sectioning, that the fragmented skull of the second adult 
individual was exposed and recognized. The base of the skull lay at 
a depth of 7.4 m. from "0" datum, about 7 m. to the west and slightly 
to the south of Shanidar I. Judging from the evidence, this individ- 
ual also had been killed in situ. He appeared to have been caught and 
crushed under a rockfall, which compressed his skull laterally and 
contorted his neck. There was a soft earth fill of 12 cm. between the 
top of the skull and the rockfall. The skull faced to the east, with the 
top of the head toward the south, and the lower jaw to the north. The 
skull was crushed over a limestone cobble measuring 8 by 12 cm. The 
lower jaw was broken, mouth agape, over the stone. The front of the 
skull was compressed to a thickness of between 5 and 6 cm. A lime- 
stone cobble about the size of two doubled fists was picked off the 
left temple, some fragments of bone adhering to it. The eye sockets, 
crushed out of shape by the stones, stared hollowly out from under 
a contorted heavy brow ridge. The latter was broken, the left side 
lapping over the right side. Owing to the force of the blow, the 
left parietal had overlapped the right parietal at about the midline 
of the skull. Behind the heavy torus was a slanting brow, which could 
be appreciated even in its shattered state. The nasal bones were 
broken, and the front part of the upper jaw was smashed. There was 
a good right maxilla. 

Approximate measurements were taken with a wooden metric ruler. 
The distance from the center of the brow to the displaced chin meas- 
ured about 28 cm. The skull was about 20 cm. long. The width of the 
lower jaw in its crushed state was about 5 cm. There was a definitely 
rearward slope to the chin region. The length of the lower jaw from 
the front to the ascending ramus was about 11 cm. The width of the 
ramus was about 4.5 cm. 

The rear of the skull, lower than the front, rested on a bed of loose, 
soft, brown earth. Stones were visible behind the skull, extending into 
the wall. A series of vertebrae, which were exposed with difficulty in 
the limited space among the stones, had been contorted, arching up- 
ward to the rear at a very unnatural angle. The rest of the vertebrae 
and some isolated fragments of the post-cranial skeleton could be seen 
in the face of the excavation behind the skull. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 623 

Like the bones of Shanidar I, those of Shanidar II were fairly well 
preserved, although crushed. None was mineralized. This is char- 
acteristic of all the bone remains from Shanidar Cave (with the pos- 
sible exception of the bones encased in the stalagmitic lenses). Actu- 
ally they looked fairly fresh, but with some dark staining on the outer 
surfaces. The soil peeled away from them very easily. When fully 
exposed the configuration of the skull left little doubt that this was 
another Neanderthal find. 

The stratigraphy in which the skull was found illustrated particu- 
larly well a succession of quiet occupational periods broken by large 
and small rockfalls. Shanidar II was found about 1.5 m. below the 
contact of layers C and D, and thus in the top part of the latter. The 
skull rested on a bed of dark-brown sandy loam measuring 20 cm. thick. 
This bed, contemporary with the skull, was streaked with charcoal. 
Thirty cm. to the south was the edge of a large, thick, widespread 
hearth between 5 and 20 cm. thick, which was compressed into a U- 
shape by a boulder. The same bed of dark occupational soil extended 
about 1.5 m. eastward in squares D 8 and D 9 where at the 7.2 to 7.5 m. 
level it was bounded by a large concentration of roclaneal and crushed 
stones. This occupational horizon yielded an abundance of charcoal 
flecks, mammal bone fragments, one bear(?) tooth, flint flakes, and 
two long Mousterian-type points of flint. At the same level in square 
D 9 was found a large boulder, presumably part of the rockf all that 
killed Shanidar II. 

The Shanidar II occupational layer extended over a sterile bed of 
limestone fragments and rockmeal, undoubtedly due to an earlier 
rockfall. This rockfall sloped from east to west, conforming to the 
general slope of the cave deposits, and measured 30 cm. thick beneath 
the skull. It appeared as an intrusive layer in an occupational hori- 
zon, to the north overlapping some stones and a lens of brown sandy 
soil. 

The rockfall that killed Shanidar II was the forerunner of a larger 
fall of rocks, the main force of which came to within about 25 cm. of 
the skull. However, since a full exhumation of the postcranial skele- 
ton was not made, the possibility cannot be ruled out that the skull was 
caught on an uneven rock surface. In any case, the situation was 
fortunate, because if the skull had received the full brunt of the rock- 
fall, it would have been destroyed. The loose brown soil, containing 
charcoal flecks, found between the skull and the heavy rocks above, con- 
ceivably could have filtered in from the sides through cracks and crev- 
ices in the stones. 

Following this rockfall, the cave was reoccupied in this quarter, as 
evidenced by a superposed occupational horizon. A circular hearth 
was found at a depth of 7.05 m. in the center of square D 8. It meas- 
ured 20 by 25 cm. and was 10 cm. thick. Mammal bone fragments. 



624 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

flint flakes and Mousterian-type artifacts also were found at this depth. 
Indeed the first sj>ecimen recognized in this section as indicative of the 
Mousterian layer was a Mousterian-type point from the 5.75-6.00 m. 
level in square D 9. 

The top of layer D in this area was sealed by an exceptionally heavy 
rockfall, which bent a long, widespread lens of charcoal-stained soil at 
a depth of about 6.8 m. Charcoal streaks, excellent indicators of soil 
disturbance, were markedly compressed and bowed downward by the 
same rockfall between 5.5 and 6.5 cm. The top of this rockfall lay at a 
depth of about 4.5 to 5.0 m. These data prove that Shanidar II was 
found well within the Mousterian layer. 

Removal of the skull presented a fairly simple problem. An excava- 
tion of about 60 cm. long by 25 cm. wide and 40 cm. deep exposed the 
skull fully. The soil was removed to the region of the clavicle. Be- 
cause the skull was in such close quarters, and part of it adhered to a 
stone, it had to be taken out in two sections. The front part formed 
the first cast, and the rear or occipital part formed the second cast. 
The limestone rock upon which the skull rested had to be included in 
the first cast. The protected remains were carried down the mountain 
trail on June 1, using the same means by which the Shanidar I skull 
was transported. 

The postcranial skelton, unfortunately, had to be left in the cave 
deposit for another season. I estimated that it will take at least 
two months to exhume it properly, digging down from the top, a 
time-consuming operation. Before we closed our work in the cave, 
a wall of stones was placed across the front of the area where 
Shanidar II was found to insure the safety of the remaining bones. 

SHANIDAR III 

Discovery of Shanidar III (field cat. No. 384 III; pis. 1, 11, 12; 
fig. 10), on April 16, antedated that of Shanidar I and II, but under 
field conditions its identity was not confirmed until later. It was 
the order of recognition of the finds, therefore, and not that of dis- 
covery, which determined the numbering. Indeed, the Shanidar III 
find had not even been entered in the early preliminary statements 
written in the field (Solecki, 1957b, c) . 

The remains consisted of some parts of the trunk and lower limbs 
and several teeth of an adult skeleton. As in the case with Shanidar 
I and II, this find was made in the course of cleaning and straight- 
ening the profile of the excavation. Shanidar III was found in 
the east wall of the excavation at a depth of 5.4 m. below "0" datum 
(fig. 3), in the extreme northeast corner of square B 9, or practically 
at the junction of squares A 8, A 9, B 8, and B 9 (fig, 1). It was 
about 2.75 m. south of, 0.5 m. west of, and 70 cm. below Shanidar I. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 



625 




'"^^^S 



CHARCOAL STREAK 



I, ^ % m_ 

■ml (k(^j A 'Jir.y/ 





40 



Figure 10. — Skeletal remains of trunk of Shanidar III. 



The first signs of the skeletal remains occurred when one of the work- 
men called my attention to some unrecognizable crushed and frag- 
mented bones. They were lying at an oblique upward angle in a 
churned mass of yellow loamy soil and limestone blocks (pi. 11). 
These fragments looked like the foot and leg bones of some large 
mammal and I judged that it had been killed in a rockf all. The bones 
appeared to be in articulation, and definitely were not the usual 
cracked and broken assortment of miscellaneous mammal bones en- 
countered in occupational levels. Among these bones one fragment 
was later identified as the distal end of a human fibula. 

The bones were found intermingled among sharp angular fragments 
of limestone in a 30 cm. thickness of yellow loamy soil, part of a 
poor occupational horizon which had been twisted and contorted out 
of shape by a relatively light rockfall. Some powdery gray rockmeal, 
a large share of which must have come from crushed stones, was also 
found in the composition. One meter to the south of the find in a 
similar pocket of earth, joined by a warped section of the deposit, 
were found two small hearths, one above the other (pi. 12). The 
hearths lay 10 cm. above the level of the bones. Both hearths meas- 
ured about 70 cm. in diameter and 5 cm. in thickness. They had been 



626 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

warped downward at the ends by the terrific pressure of fallen stone 
blocks. Shanidar III was probably contemporary with the upper- 
most of the two hearths. 

Our two Shergati assistants were detailed to clean the soil from 
around the skeletal remains during the next few days, exposing the 
remains of the trunk, which lay behind the shattered limb bones. The 
trunk was represented by five lumbar vertebrae in articulation, some 
scattered and broken ribs, and parts of the pelvis and sacrum. Rib 
fragments were collected 35 cm. away from the vertebral column. 
Two areas of crumbled bone, one measuring 20 by 10 cm. and the 
other 12 by 7 cm., were observed under stones in the same plane as 
the trunk. All the bones were scattered in an area 65 cm. broad by 
35 cm. deep. They lay in a soil pocket measuring 70 cm. by 55 cm. 
among limestone blocks at the base or western edge of a rockfall. 
Unfortunately for field identification and recovery, much of this 
osseous material had been reduced to compacted masses of powder 
adhering to the limestone fragments and blocks. None of the recover- 
able bones was mineralized, and each could be separated very easily 
from the soil. Also none of the bones appeared to have been mo- 
lested by animals, or at least none of the bones showed evidence of 
gnawing or chewing. However, it is possible that animals may have 
removed some of the bones of the cephalic end. The several teeth 
which were recovered had passed unnoticed into collecting bags during 
preliminary investigations in this section and were not retrieved 
until a comparative examination of the remains was made. The teeth 
seemed to have been scattered in the vicinity of the bones. 

From the evidence, it appears that Shanidar III had been acci- 
dentally caught, like Shanidar I and II, under a rockfall and in- 
stantly killed. Death was not due to either of the rockfalls that 
caused the deaths of the others. Unlike the others, and unfortunately 
for us, this body seems to have been jammed into a crevice among 
the stones, and the upper parts, including the head and arms, had been 
sheared away. No part of the skeleton above the lumbar vertebrae 
was found in place. It appears as though the trunk had been in an 
upright position when it was caught by the rockfall. The legs were 
flexed close to the trunk. From the angle of the trunk and of the 
several parts of the lower limbs, the individual had been lying on its 
right side, its upper extremities directed obliquely to the east, and 
its lower extremities to the west. 

We could not immediately resolve the identity of the remains, 
although they looked suspiciously humanlike. Photographs were 
taken of the remains in situ and a drawing of the same was made 
for the record. The bones were picked out by our Arab technicians 
after a preservative coating was applied to the exposed surfaces. They 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 627 

were then packed in a large wooden box filled with cotton, and not 
touched again at the laboratory at Shanidar or unpacked for reexami- 
nation in Baghdad. It was not until the remains were examined and 
compared at the U.S. National Museum in Washington that the true 
nature of Shanidar III was disclosed. 

Speaking at a lecture in the Smithsonian Institution on February 
27, 1959, Dr. Stewart revealed that Shanidar III, probably a male, 
had had a blade stuck between two of his ribs. Evidence showed that 
there had been some healing of the bone. Presumably Shanidar III 
had been disabled in a conflict with unfriendly neighbors and was 
recuperating when he was killed by a rockf all. 

Judging from stratigraphic position, it appears that Shanidar III 
lay in a relatively thin occupational stratum which was further com- 
pressed, like a sandwich filling, between two stone layers. In the 
vicinity of the neighboring hearths mentioned above, the stratum 
measured 45 cm. thick. In the vicinity of the skeletal remains, the 
stratum measured about 30 cm. thick. There is a striking similarity 
between the situation of Shanidar III and Shanidar I, less than 3 m. 
away. Both skeletons were found in shallow occupational deposits 
between two rockfalls. However, the two could not be contemporary, 
since the occupational layer of Shanidar I, as well as the 40 cm.-thick 
rockfall which covered Shanidar III, separated them stratigraph- 
ically. The difference in position probably represents in years less 
than a millennium. 

The Shanidar III occupational layer dipped markedly toward the 
west. The soil was a light-brown loam, containing flecks of char- 
coal, mammal bone fragments, flint flakes and several artifacts. The 
latter included a Mousterian point, a thick "circular" scraper and a 
discoid core flake. At about the 5,0-m. depth was much evidence of a 
rockfall, the one which killed Shanidar III. At about a depth of 
4.5 m. was found an occupational deposit which seems to have been 
an extension of the Shanidar I layer. One broken Mousterian point 
and other Mousterian-type artifacts were found in this horizon. 
This marked the top of the layer containing Mousterian remains in 
this quarter. Overlying it was found a rockfall probably represent- 
ing the same one which killed Shanidar I. The first signs of the 
Baradostian culture above Shanidar III appeared at a depth of 
4.25 m. 

THE ROCKFALLS IN SHANIDAR CAVE AND THE COMPARATIVE 
STRATIGRAPHY 

Translated from mute stones and earth, the stratigraphy in which 
the skeletal remains were found reveals a succession of occupations 
which were from time to time shattered by large or small rockfalls. 



628 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The dangers of the caveman's life were by no means shut out when 
he crossed the portal to his airy cave home. He never knew when a 
falling stone would come crashing down. But it evidently did not 
worry the Neanderthals any more than it does the Kurds at Shanidar 
Cave today. Shanidar Cave lies in an earthquake belt, and earth- 
quakes undoubtedly triggered the repeated rockfalls. Actually a 
geological fault passes in front of the cave. 

At least four major rockfall series could be identified in the excava- 
tion : One at 9 m. depth, a second at 6 m., a third at 4 m., and a fourth 
(and possible fifth) near the top. The minor rockfalls probably num- 
bered over a score. Some estimation could be made of the sequence 
and contemporaneity of rockfalls by tracing the deposits in which 
they lay. None of the rockfalls, not even the severest, blanketed the 
entire floor of the cave so far as could be observed, nor were the rock- 
falls of regular thicknesses. Their distribution depended on natural 
structural weaknesses in the limestone cave ceiling. The spread of 
large stones on the modern surface of the cave floor attests the 
fact that the rockfalls have not ceased. I can attest, too, that I ex- 
perienced an earth tremor while at work in the cave during the sum- 
mer of 1953. Happily, no rockfalls accompanied this quake. 

The Stone Age dwellers of Shanidar Cave, like the modern Kurdish 
occupants, naturally lived around the rock areas and among them. 
Their household debris and the accumulating soil gradually filled in 
the areas among the stones, leveling the rough parts of the cave floor 
until another ceiling collapse started the whole process all over again. 
It is highly unlikely that a large group of Shanidar people were killed 
in the cave at one time. The cave deposits show that reoccupation 
began shortly after each rockfall, at least up to about the time of 
Shanidar I Mousterian times. 

When the skeletons were brought to Baghdad and were awaiting 
disposition in June 1957, I pointed out to Dr. Naji al Asil, then Di- 
rector General of the Directorate General of Antiquities, that the 
expedition's sponsor, the Smithsonian Institution, had a qualified 
physical anthropologist. Dr. T. D. Stewart, who could make a study 
of the remains. The suggestion was accepted, and telegrams were 
dispatched to the Smithsonian Institution, inviting Dr. Stewart to 
come to Baghdad. Unfortunately, he was not able to arrive until 
October 1957, after the skeletons of Shanidar I and II had been dis- 
membered by the laboratory technicians in the Iraq Museum. As 
mentioned above, Shanidar III had been shipped to Washington. 

The material, including the artifacts, recovered from Shanidar 
Cave have not yet been fully studied. Studies of soil and pollen 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 629 

samples, and of the mollusks and other faunal remains have either 
been completed or are in various stages of completion.* 

THE DATING OF THE SHANIDAR NEANDERTHALS 

We have reached the stage, thanks to the carbon- 14 dating method, 
where we may estimate with something approaching certainty the 
age of the Neanderthals of Shanidar Cave. The base of the Bara- 
dostian (Layer C) appears from a series of dated carbon- 14 samples 
to be close to 35,000 years old.^ There seems to be a cultural hiatus 
between this level and the top of the Mousterian (Solecki, microfilm), 
which is now confirmed by unpublished carbon- 14 dates obtained by 
Dr. H. de Vries of Rijks University, Groningen, the Netherlands. 
In a letter dated May 25, 1959, Dr. de Vries allowed me to quote a 
carbon-14 sample dated as 50,000 ±3,000-4,000 years before the present 
(GRO 1495). This sample was taken from an area about 6 m. from 
Shanidar I. Taking the slope of the deposits into account, and 
barring any accidents in stratigraphy, I concluded in a recent paper 
(Solecki, 1959b, p. 714), that this carbon-14 date was probably closer 
to the actual date of Shanidar I than my estimated date of 45,000 
years (Solecki, 1957c, p. 63; 1957d, p. 28; 1958, p. 106; 1959a, p. 406). 
The latter estimate was a relative dating based on comparative studies. 
In a more recent letter (August 1, 1959), Dr. de Vries permits me to 
quote two more carbon-14 dates from Shanidar Cave. One is from 
the base of Layer C, with a date of 35,080 ±500 years B.P. (GRO 
2549). The second, which is of more pertinent interest, was a car- 
bon-14 sample dated 46,000±1500 years B.P. (GRO 2527). This 
sample was taken from an occupational layer about 50 or 60 cm. below 
the contact of Layers C and D in the top of Layer D, at a depth of 
5.10 m. below "0" datum. It was taken from a sjDot about 4.5 m. from 
Shanidar I, and about 3 m. from Shanidar III. From its strati- 
graphical position, the sample appears to date the cultural sublayer 
of Shanidar I. Therefore, unless proved otherwise in the future, 
I consider that the Shanidar I Neanderthal is about 46,000 years old, 
and Shanidar III perhaps a few hundred years older by virtue of 
its slightly lower stratigraphic position. The latter was separated 
vertically from the former by a thin mantle of stones and occupational 
deposit both totaling about 70 cm. 

* The soils have been examined for pollen by Dr. Gunnar Brdtman of the University of 
Stockholm, Madame Arlette Leroi-Gourhan of the University of Paris, and Richard Shutler 
of the Nevada State Museum. Madame Leroi-Gourhan promises exceptional results with 
lier methods. The Soil Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
examined the physical nature of the soils. Dr. Harald Rehder and Dr. Alexander Wet- 
more, both of the U.S. National Museum, each in his own respective specialty, examined 
the mollusks and bird bones. Dr. Charles Reed of the University of Illinois Is studying 
the mammal bones. 

^ The series of carbon-14 dates from Shanidar will be published in collected form. 



630 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

In earlier papers (Solecki, 1957c, p. 63; 1959b, p. 715), I estimated 
an age of about 60,000 years for Shanidar II. This estimate was 
based on an interpolation between the carbon-14 dates for the lower 
j)art of Layer C, and the probable identification of a stalagmitic 
horizon with a pluvial period, or Wiirm I in the Alpine sequence. 
As charted by Emiliani (1956, fig. 1; 1958), the Wiirm I stage is 
dated as about 65,000 years. The stalagmitic horizon (actually, sev- 
eral closely spaced sheaves of discontinuous stalagmitic lenses clustered 
around one widespread layer) lies at a depth of 8.5 m. Reasoning 
that with a carbon-14: date of 60,000 years for a level at a depth of 
5.0 m. in the western part of the excavation, it seems very likely that 
Shanidar II (depth 7.25 m.) is closer in age to that of the stalagmitic 
horizon. This would place the age of Shanidar II at about 60,000 
years, assuming of course that the stalagmitic horizon may be equated 
with Wiirm I, and that Emiliani's calculations are correct for his 
estimate of the age of Wiirm I. 

It is possible that with advanced technology in the carbon-14 method 
or some other method, a more closely approximate date for Shanidar 
II will be obtained in the future. However, until this is done, the 
approximate age of 60,000 years is given here. 

The Shanidar infant, found a short distance above the main stalag- 
mitic layer (Solecki, 1955a, p. 417; 1955b, p. 30), must be older than 
Shanidar I, II, and III, and younger than the stalagmitic layer. As 
indicated above, I believe this layer represents a pluvial period of 
Wiirm I age. I estimated an age of 70,000 years for the Shanidar 
infant in an earlier paper (Solecki, 1957c, p. 63), based on then 
current age approximations of Wiirm I. With Emiliani's new esti- 
mate of Wiirm I as about 65,000 years old, we might revise our figure 
accordingly to about 64,000 years ( ? ) . Again, this is a provisional 
approximation, which we offer until a more accurate appraisal of 
the geology can be made at Shanidar Cave. Madame Arlette Leroi- 
Gourhan's analysis of fossil pollen from this horizon in Shanidar 
Cave should furnish us with more definite information on climate in 
the near future. 

Dr. Muzafler §enyiirek, of Ankara University, who studied the 
Shanidar infant, believes it to be a baby girl (Senyiirek, 1959, p. 10) . 
He thinks that it represents a new "subspecies" of Neanderthal, closely 
related to the ancestors of Homo sapiens. He proposes to name it 
as a new form of Neanderthal man, ^^Homo sapiens shanidarensis 
(§enyurek, 1959, p. 125). It will be interesting to see what the find- 
ings of Dr. Stewart on the adult Neanderthals will reveal with respect 
to this classification of the Shanidar infant. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 631 

PROVISIONAL RELATIONSHIPS OF THE SHANIDAR NEANDERTHALS TO 
NEAR EASTERN COUNTERPARTS 

Eight cave and rock-shelter sites in southwest Asia, not including 
the Soviet finds, have yielded remains of Neanderthal man. Howell 
(1958, p. 185) enumerates seven of these: M. ez-Zuttiyeh, the caves 
of Mount Carmel (M. et-Tabun and M. es-Skhul), Shukbah, Djebel 
Qafzeh, Bisitun, and Shanidar. It is noteworthy that of these sites, 
five are in Palestine, the most intensively investigated region. Bisitun 
(Coon, 1951) is a cave site in western Iran. I hesitate to mclude 
Bisitun in this list, since a positive validation of the skeletal remains 
from this site has never been made to my knowledge. I assume that 
Howell follows Coon's (1951, p. 79) tentative identification. De- 
serving of recognition as an eighth site of this sort is Karain Cave 
near Antalya, Turkey, where two Neanderthal teeth were reportedly 
discovered (Kokten, 1949; Senyiirek, 1949). 

Of all these sites. Mount Carmel (Garrod and Bate, 1937; McCown 
and Keith, 1939) presents the best material yet found and published 
in the Near East for comparison with the Shanidar adult Neander- 
thals. However, the situation at Mount Carmel is somewhat complex. 
Neanderthals of the primitive or "conservative" type, represented by 
the Tabim skeletons, and of the more advanced or "progressive" type, 
represented by the Skhul skeletons, were recovered. Contesting the 
original dating of the skeletons to the Riss-Wiirm interglacial period 
in the Alpine sequence, Vaufrey (1939-1940, pp. 616, 619) and Bordes 
(1955, pp. 504-505) assigTi the Mount Carmel skeletons to later dates : 
Wiirm I-II interstadial and Wlirm III, respectively (Garrod, 1956, 
p. 50). Garrod (1956, pp. 56, 58-59) notes new evidence to support 
the possibility that the layer at Mount Carmel yielding fossil skeletons 
(Lower Levalloiso-Mousterian) dates from the early stages of Wiirm I. 
Here Howell (1958, p. 188; 1959, p. 9) agrees that the skeletons date 
from Wiirm I. Unfortunately, at this writing, no carbon-14 dates are 
available to give us a confirmation of this view. However, Dr. John 
d'A. Waechter of the University of London Institute of Archaeology 
undertook a special mission to Mount Carmel during the summer of 
1959 to recover carbon-14 samples. Pending the results of his inves- 
tigations, carbon-14 dates from elsewhere in the Near East and North 
Africa tend to support Dr. Garrod's relative dating. According to a 
letter from her dated October 10, 1959, there is additional evidence 
both from the dating of Levalloiso-Mousterian sites by carbon-14 
dates, and from beach terraces, lending additional weight in her favor. 

Dr. Garrod's relative dating of the Mount Carmel Lower Leval- 
loiso-Mousterian layers and the associated skeletons as of early Wiirm 
I age is close to our more precise dating of the Shanidar adult skele- 

536608—60—^45 



632 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

tons. Following Emiliani (1956, 1958), the latter date from the 
final part of Wiirm I and probably well into the Wiirm I-II inter- 
stadial, on the basis of the carbon-14 measurements. This would 
make the Shanidar skeletons somewhat younger than the Mount 
Carmel skeletons. We have additional evidence to offer on the basis 
of comparative stone typology, albeit not detailed at this writing, 
supporting this conclusion. Thus, Garrod (in Garrod and Bate, 1937, 
p. 119) commented that the stone industry of the Upper Levalloiso- 
Mousterian of Mount Carmel closely matched the Mousterian 
industry of Hazer Merd caves in northern Iraq near Sulaimaniya, 
sites which Garrod (1930) had excavated. With the exception of 
several implement types which were absent at Shanidar, the Mous- 
terian industry of Shanidar appears to be similar to that of Hazer 
Merd, as well as to that of Bisitun (Solecki, 1955a, pp. 419^20; 
microfilm 1958, pp. 26-27). Garrod (1956, p. 57) has corroborated 
the similarity of these Mousterian industries. I have been able to 
compare directly a sample collection of the Mousterian industry from 
Shanidar with the sequence of stone industries from Mount Carmel 
as represented in a collection in the U.S. National Museum. I found 
that with the apparent exception of Levallois cores, hand axes, and 
burins, which were absent at Shanidar, the Upper Levalloiso-Mous- 
terian of Mount Carmel is most like the Shanidar Mousterian 
industry. The Mount Carmel Lower Levalloiso-Mousterian, with its 
associated Neanderthal skeletons, must then perforce be earlier than 
the Shanidar Mousterian on considerations of the stone typology. 

With regard to human paleontology, there are unmistakably more 
points of resemblance between the Shanidar I (Stewart, 1958, p. 91; 
1959, p. 277), and Shanidar II skulls and the "conservative" Tabun 
cranial remains than the Skhul remains. In addition to these re- 
semblances, Dr. Stewart (unpublished statements) found evidence 
in the remains of Shanidar III which show that it is closer to the 
Tabun than to the Skhul skeletons. This makes a strong argument 
for equating the adult Shanidar population with the conservative 
Tabun remains. However, if on the basis of relative dating and 
stone typology we accept the inference that the Mount Carmel Nean- 
derthals are older than the Shanidar adult Neanderthals, we would 
have to accept the proposition that a population of Neanderthals 
with Tabun characteristics lived on in the Zagros Mountains some 
thousands of years after their physical counterparts in Palestine. 
Eeflectmg upon the long timespans of man and culture in the Old 
Stone age, this need not be a startling thought. The Mousterian 
period, the time of the Neanderthals, has been given a span of at 
least 45,000 years (Emiliani, 1956, table 1). The enigmatic Skhul 
Neanderthals with modern-man characteristics are another matter. 
Howell (1958, pp. 186, 189-191) notes that they may be somewhat 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 633 

later than the Tabun finds, though still withm the Lower Leval- 
loiso-Mousterian. Unfortunately, for comparative reasons, except for 
some isolated skeletal fragments from Tabun, no skeletons were 
found in the Upper Levalloiso-Mousterian at Mount Carmel. How- 
ever, even these remains may be highly useful to compare with the 
Shanidar Neanderthals. 

Elsewhere in Palestine, the site of Shukbah (Garrod and Bate, 
1942; Keith, 1931) has yielded isolated skeletal fragments fomid with 
direct Upper Levalloiso-Mousterian cultural associations. These re- 
mains may be of prime importance for the Shanidar study, since they 
should be approximately in the same time horizon and cultural level. 
One other site, Mugharet el-Zuttiyeh (or M. ez-Zuttiyeh of Howell, 
1958, p. 185), yielded the very interesting Galilee skull (Turville- 
Petre, 1927) . The Galilee skull, although from a lower cultural hori- 
zon than Shanidar, or in the Lower Levalloiso-Mousterian, has some 
resemblances to Shanidar I. Particularly interesting, in my opinion, 
are the rather divided brow ridges on both specimens. 

Presumably the terminal date for the Upper Levalloiso-Mousterian 
culture at Momit Carmel is about the same as the terminal date for 
the Mousterian elsewhere in the Near East. Thus, the date of 46,000 
years for the top of the Mousterian layer at Shanidar is closely 
matched by the date of 43,000 years at Jerf Ajla m Syria (Coon, 1957, 
p. 315). It is hoped that we can soon reach back farther into the 
past with newer and more refined methods of dating. The "provi- 
sional" correlation tables are fast becoming outmoded, as new firm 
dates are added to the list. 

CONCLUSION 

Three adult Neanderthal skeletons, Shanidar I, II, and IH, were 
recovered from the upper part of the Mousterian deposits of Shanidar 
Cave by the Third Shanidar Expedition in 1957. The youngest of 
these remains, Shanidar I, is dated at about 46,000 years ago. The 
others, by virtue of their lower stratigraphic positions, are somewhat 
older. The deposits in which the Shanidar Neanderthals have been 
found are correlated with the Upper Levalloiso-Mousterian of Pales- 
tine; hence they are younger than the well-known Lower Levalloiso- 
Mousterian Neanderthals of Mount Carmel, 600 miles away. The 
latter are now accepted as of early Wiirm I age in the Alpine sequence 
by Dr. D. A. E. Garrod. 

The Shanidar remains should provide us with information about 
the final Neanderthal population in the Near East, and what hap- 
pened to them during and after Wiirm I times in that part of the 
world. Significantly, the Shanidar population on first impression 
appears to be more closely related to the "conservative" Tabun skele- 
tons than to the "progressive" or more advanced Skhul skeletons. 



634 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

The gap of years between the Middle and the Upper Paleolithic 
deposits at Shanidar may be explained in terms of a return to the area 
of an extreme cold period. This presmnably rendered the cave unin- 
habitable between circa 45,000 and 35,000 years ago, driving the 
Neanderthal populations away for all time. 

When the exploration of Shanidar Cave is finished, we may expect 
to have still other links in our understanding of the Paleolithic 
period in the Near East, its times, and its people. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

BOEDES, FEANQOIS. 

1955. Le Pal^olithique inferieur et moyen de Jabrud (Syrie) et la question 

du Fre-Aurignacien. L'Anthropol., toL 59, pp. 486-507. 
Coon, Caeleton S. 

1951. Cave explorations in Iran 1949. Univ. Museum, Univ. Pennsylvania. 

1957. The Seven Caves. New York. 
Emiliani, Cesaee. 

1956. Note on absolute chronology of human evolution. Science, vol. 123, 

No. 3204, pp. 924-926. 

1958. Ancient temperatures. Sci. Amer., vol. 198, No. 2, pp. 54-63. 
Gabeod, D. a. E. 

1930. The Paleolithic of southern Kurdistan : Excavations in the caves of 

Zarzi and Hazer Merd. Bull. Amer. Schools of Prehist. Res., No. 6. 
1956. Acheul^o-Jabroudien et "Pre-Auriguacien" de la Grotte du Taboun 

(Mont Carmel) ; 6tude strati graphique et chronologique. Qua- 

ternaria, vol. 3, pp. 39-59. 
Gaeeod, D. a. E., and Bate, D. M. A. 

1937. The Stone Age of Mount Carmel. Vol. 1. Oxford. 

1942. Excavations at the cave of Shukbah, Palestine, 1928. Proc. Pre- 
hist. Soc, n. s., vol. 8, pp. 1-20. 
Howell, F. Claek. 

1958. Upper Pleistocene men of the southwest Asian Mousterian. In 

Hundert Jahre Neanderthaler, G. H. R. von Koenigswald, ed., 

pp. 185-198, Utrecht. 
1959 Upper Pleistocene stratigraphy and early man in the Levant. Proe. 

Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 103, No. 1, pp. 1-65. 
Keith, A. 

1931. New discoveries relating to the antiquity of Man. London. 
KOKTEN, i. KiLLig. 

1949. 1949 Yili Tarihoncesi Aragtirmalari Hakkinda kisa Rapor. (Re- 
cherches de Prehistoire faites on 1949. Resume.). Belleten, vol. 
13, No. 52, pp. 811-831. 
McCowN, T. D., and Keith, A. 

1939. The Stone Age of Mount Carmel. Vol. 2. Oxford. 

§ENYiJEEK, MUZAFFEE. 

1949. A short preliminary report on the two fossil teeth from the cave of 
Karain, excavated under the auspices of the Turkish Historical 
Society. Belleten, vol. 13, No. 52, pp. 833-836. 

1957a. The skeleton of the fossil infant found in Shanidar cave, northern 
Iraq, preliminary report. Anatolia, vol. 2, pp. 49-55. 

1957b. A further note on the Paleolithic Shanidar infant. Anatolia, vol. 2, 
pp. 111-121. 



SKELETONS FROM SHANIDAR CAVE — SOLECKI 635 

1959. A study of the deciduous teeth of the fossil Shanidar infant. A 

comparative study of the milk teeth of fossil men. Publ. Fac. 

Languages, Hist, and Geogr., Univ. Ankara, No. 128. Publ. Div. 

Palaeoanthrop., No. 2. Ankara. 
SoLECKi, Ralph S. 

1952a. Note on a brief archaeological reconnaissance of cave sites in the 

Rowanduz district of Iraq. Sumer, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 37-44. 
1952b. A Paleolithic site in the Zagros Mountains of Northern Iraq. Report 

on a sounding at Shanidar cave. Pt. 1. Sumer, vol. 8, No. 2, 

pp. 127-161. 
1953a. A Paleolithic site in the Zagros Mountains of northern Iraq. Report 

on a sounding at Shanidar cave. Pt. 2. Sumer, vol. 9, No. 1, 

pp. 60-93. 
1953b. The Shanidar cave sounding, 1953 season, with notes concerning the 

discovery of the first Paleolithic skeleton in Iraq. Sumer, vol. 9, 

No. 2, pp. 229-239. 
1955a. Shanidar cave, a Paleolithic site in northern Iraq. Ann. Rep. 

Smithsonian Inst, for 1954, pp. 389-425. 
1955b. Shanidar cave, a Paleolithic site in northern Iraq. Sumer, vol. 11, 

No. 1, pp. 14-38. 
1955c. The Shanidar child, a Paleolithic find in Iraq. Archaeol., vol. 8, 

No. 3, pp. 169-175. 
1957a. The 1956 season at Shanidar. Sumer, vol. 13, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 

165-171 
1957b. Two Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar cave. Sumer, vol. 13, 

Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 59-60. 
1957c. Shanidar Cave. Sci. Amer., vol. 197, No. 5, pp. 58-64. 
1957d. The 1956-1957 season at Shanidar, Iraq. A preliminary statement. 

Quaternaria, vol. 4, pp. 23-30. 
1958. The 1956-1957 season at Shanidar, Iraq. A preliminary statement. 

Sumer, vol. 14, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 104-108. 
The Baradostian industry and the Upper Paleolithic in the Near 
East. 1958. Microfilmed 1959, University Microfilms, Ann Arbor, 

Mich. 
1959a. Collection of material data from three archaeological sites at Shani- 
dar, Iraq. Year Book Amer. Philos. Soc, 1958, pp. 403-407. 
1959b. Early man in cave and village at Shanidar, Kurdistan, Iraq. Trans. 

New York Acad. Sci., ser. 2, vol. 21, No. 8, pp. 712-717. 
SoLECKi, R. S., and Meyer, Rubin. 

1958. Dating of Zawi Chemi, an early village site at Shanidar, northern 
Iraq. Science, vol. 127, No. 3312, p. 1446. 
Stewart, T. D. 

1958. First views of the restored Shanidar I skull. Sumer, vol. 14, Nos. 1 

and 2, pp. 90-96. Reprinted in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 
1958, pp. 473-480, 1959. 

1959. Restoration and study of the Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton in 

Baghdad, Iraq. Year Book Amer. Philoso. Soc, 1958, pp. 274-278. 
Turville-Petre, F. 

1927. Researches in prehistoric Galilee 1925-1926. British School of 
Archaeology in Jerusalem. London. 
Vaufrey, R. 

1939-1940. Pal^olithique et Mesolithique palestiniens. L'Anthropol., vol. 
49, No. 5, pp. 616-620. 







Stadia 



FiGU 



Sumerian Technology 

A SURVEY OF EARLY MATERIAL ACHIEVEMENTS IN MESOPOTAMIA 



By Ida Bobula 

Richer College, Houlton, Maine 



[With 12 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

During the past hundred years the spadework of devoted arche- 
ologists has reopened for us in Mesopotamia the buried record of 
mankind's first great civilization. The face of a forgotten people 
has reappeared from a perspective of four millennia. But even 
after it had been generally accepted that this people made the 
tremendous invention of the written word, Orientalists had not yet 
agreed upon a name for them. French scholars, recognizing that 




Figure 2. — Impression of seal cylinder, which belonged to a woman, representing the god- 
dess Baba, "Lady of the Mountain," with a devotee. 

this was the group whose direct heirs are called Chaldeans in the 
Bible, began to use the name Chaldean for the rediscovered people. 
Later the name Accadian was used by many savants, but after a 
vigorous controversy among scholars, in which the very existence 
of this ancient group was first hotly denied by some, then definitely 
established, there emerged a general agreement to call this ancient 
people Sumerians. 

637 




Figure l.-Map of Sumerian cities in the third millennium B.C. and the surrounding territories. 
Names of later cities in parentheses. 



638 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



The discovery of the Sumerians brought many surprises; their 
material and moral civilization appeared, in the light of the ex- 
humed documents, far higher than anything expected from a group 
of such antiquity. The few scholars who were able to recognize 
Sumerian achievement across the span of millennia, in spite of a 
script hard to decipher and a mysterious agglutinative language, 
expressed their admiration in no uncertain terms. Stephen Langdon, 




Figure 3. — Seal of Ur-Engur, king of Ur city. The earthly ruler is depicted as presented 
by benevolent goddesses to the moon god. 

in the first volume of the Cambridge History, writes that human 
civilization begins with the Sumerians and that they were the most 
talented and humane of all known early peoples. And indeed, 
Sumerians were talented. Without doubt, we owe to them the in- 
vention of cuneiform signs from which developed the Phoenician 
alphabet and the principle of writing, the means by which man may 
speak to fellow men across the ages. 

We know, also, that the Sumerians were nonaggressive. Though 
sometimes obliged to defend their homeland from barbarian onslaught, 
they were not hostile to others. Keen and warm-hearted observers 
of nature, they directed their energies in the service of human life 
against the destructive forces of nature. Their irrigation system, 
completed in the fourth millennium B.C., created unprecedented 
wealth and freed "the shaven-headed people" from want. Sir Leon- 
ard Woolley, discoverer of ancient Ur, in his book on the Sumerians 
(1928), voiced "the claim of Sumer": if any people can be regarded 
as "first cause" of civilization, that people is the Sumerian. 

Excavation on Sumerian sites, Tello, Warka, Nippur, and especially 
Ur, dating back to the third millennium B.C., revealed the antiquity 
of some of our technological processes. Radiocarbon tests helped to 
establish the earliest dates of human history. It became obvious that 
many great inventions credited to later nations must be traced back to 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



639 




Figure 4. — A masterpiece of early engraving represents Ninuita-Gilgamesh, the mighty 
hunter, on a jasper seal cylinder. 

Sumer because the corresponding artifacts such as the wheel, or 
constructions like the arch, occur first in the Sumerian sites. The 
only legitimate claims for contemporary achievement by another peo- 
ple may be those of the Egyptologists, but even these claims are often 
questionable. It is of course possible, though not probable, that an 
earlier wheel than the Sumerian may be discovered in India or Iran, 
as Gordon Childe (1951) emphasizes. But until this actually hap- 
pens, we have to accept the "claim of Sumer" on this "most decisive 
factor of the industrial revolution" and many other achievements. 

The nontechnical "firsts" of the Sumerians recently received some 
publicity. Dr. S. N. Kramer (1956) selected from the clay tablets 
of Smner a number of "firsts": the first law code, the first love 
song, and the first grumble against the tax collector known in human 
history. There are also the first proverb, the first city map, the 
first medical prescription, and the first account of a schoolboy's day, 
all shedding light on the way of life of the Siunerians. Here and 
there allusions have also been made to the inventions of the Sumerians 
in the field of technology, although these were never listed in spite 
of the fact that the excavations of recent years have brought new 
proof of the amazing teclmological knowledge and skill of these 




Figure 5. — From seal which belonged to Gudea, patesi of Lagash; the shaven priest-prince 
receives for his people the most precious gift from the Lord of the "Water of Life." 



640 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



stocky Mesopotamians. The present study attempts to give a brief 
review of the high points in the long succession of basic innovations, 
inventions, and achievements of the Sumerians in various jfields of 
technology, as far as these may be identified by archeology and by 
the existing docmnents. It is the aim to present the merits of the 
Sumerians, those builders of the first high culture in Eurasia, who 
have to be recognized sooner or later as the real source of Western 
civilization. 

CANALIZATION AND AGRICULTURE 

The first achievement of the Sumerian people was the canalization 
of the land between and around the two great rivers, the Euphrates 
and the Tigris. This feat created the proverbial riches of Mesopota- 




FiGURE 6. — Deities of agriculture, with plow and produce, engraved on cylinder seal. 

mia — the first man-made plenty and variety of food, thanks to easy 
transportation and exchange. Canalization provided good grazing 
grounds for cattle and sheep, as well as breeding waters for fish. 
Caught with metal harpoons and hooks and easily available to the 
whole people, fish remained for a long time the basic source of protein 
for the Sumerians. Vegetables and fruit, grown systematically, 
romided out the healthful Sumerian diet. 

The digging of navigable canals, which bring irrigation water to 
desert sands and make agriculture possible, cannot be attributed to 
a few geniuses, but must have been supported by organized groups 




Figure 7. — Goldfish amulet of Queen Shubad, 

of people, coaxed into concerted effort by the first statesmen and 
economists, aided by the first engineers able to draft plans. It is 
estimated that the majestic network of Mesopotamian irrigation was 
ready by 4000 B.C., the mscriptions of later kings boasting about 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



641 



additions and repairs which were obviously regarded as highly 
meritorious work. 

Irrigation made methodical agriculture possible and produced 
fodder for the flocks of a settled people. Sheep, cattle, and pigs 
were bred in abundance by skilled herdsmen. "The carefully irriga- 
ted fields did yield amazing crops of barley and spelt; onions and 




Figure 8. — The legendary hero overcomes and tames wild animals. Seal. 

other vegetables grew along the canal banks and as early as 2800 B.C., 
the date gardens were very extensive — a number of varieties of dates 
was cultivated and the harvest afforded one of the staple foods of 
the people," said Sir Leonard WooUey (1928). Date stones were 
ground for fodder or used as fuel in the smelting furnaces. Oil was 
pressed from sesame seed, and it seems that there were mills for 
grinding large amounts of grain, although we do not know how they 
worked. 

The vegetables mentioned in Smnerian tablets are squash, gourds, 
eggplant, beans, lentils, cucumbers, chick-peas, leeks, garlic, cress, 
mustard, lettuce, capers, and some roots, probably turnips, radishes, 
and beets. Many spices were used: aloe, fennel, anise, fennugreek, 
coriander, thyme, marjoram, mint, rosemary, turmeric, ginger, saffron. 
One unidentified spice plant was the Hmbirda. All these were care- 
fully gathered and preserved — the old records tell us of an "overseer 
of the house of herbs," also of a man who is by trade a maker of 




Figure 9. — Archaic seal depicts plowing. 

ointments. Small gold models of pomegranates used as jewelry show 
that this fruit was known. Almonds, plums, cherries, pears, mul- 
berries, apples, figs, grapes, quince, citron, and pistachio are 
mentioned. 




642 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

We have long, elaborate legal treatises on clay tablets, which 
regulate the mutual rights and duties of a landowner and of a 
gardener who undertakes to plant date palms on the land of the 
former. The tools of farming — the spade, the hoe, the plow, and 
irrigation machinery — are mentioned first in Sumerian texts. One 
tablet records 4,638 worn copper sickles and 60 old hoes sent from 
the hardware house to the smithy to be sharpened. 

The world's first farm bulletin, written in Sumerian, was found 
in 1950 among the ruins of the city of Nippur. This bulletin in- 
structs the farmer about the differ- 
ent kinds of furrows, tells him to 
"keep an eye on the man who puts 
in the seed, have him put the seeds 
in two fingers deep uniformly" 
with the seeder, a plow which car- 
ried the seeds and planted them 
through a funnel-like attachment. 

The tablet discusses the additional frSes\\e?d^ o7pleTty:"'Gra^ 

value of three irrigations against 

the necessary two, and advises the farmer to say a prayer, too, lest 
mice and vermin destroy the crops. For a long time the rational 
advice was followed, the prayers were said, and the land of Meso- 
potamia was the most blessed spot on earth. 

ARCHITECTURE 

The marshlands of Mesopotamia offered only the poorest raw 
materials to the building trade of the first groups of human beings 
who settled there, certainly longer than 5,000 years ago. From mud 
and reeds the Sumerian builders created monumental architecture 
that must have been not only strikingly beautiful, but sophisticated 
as well — suited to a people who shaved, bathed, and used silver 
manicure sets long before Abraham's days. 

The clay of the marshes can be fired into bricks, and brick was 
used by the Sumerians when large buildings were to be erected. 
Stone, which had to be imported, was used only for special purposes 
such as door sockets. The vast ruins of the Mesopotamian mounds 
contain mostly bricks. Square bricks, more seldom oblong bricks, 
formed foundations, walls, even the pavement of the streets. In later 
buildings, the planoconvex brick appears, flat on one side, convex on 
the other. In the early strata, large bricks of real cement were 
excavated. But the art of mixing cement seems to have gone out 
with the kmgs of Ur. Cement for plastering is used in the Royal 
Tombs of Ur, but after that the art was forgotten. 

It is certain that the ancient Sumerians also utilized the giant 
reeds for building. The reed decays in a few decades, but Sumerian 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 643 

gem seals have preserved pictures of the reed houses. It is prob- 
able that the airy, cool reed house was the usual habitat of the poor 
people, and perhaps some of the wise, simple priest- princes, the Magi, 
also preferred it on hot Mesopotamian nights. 

In the marshes of the lower Tigris and the Euphrates, Marsh-Arabs 
are still building beautiful large halls as well as small huts from giant 
reeds, artfully bound and fashioned into columns and arches. Small 
streamers sometimes hang on top of the reed columns of such build- 




FiGURE 11. — Archaic seal with drinking ritual, before a door, possibly a marriage ceremony. 
Eagle and stags in the lower register. 

ings, and one cannot ignore the fact that the symbol of Innin-Ishtar, 
the great goddess, was a doorpost or column with a streamer. A 
doorpost with a streamer, a piece of woven material, may have been 
the age-old symbol of a home, a habitation in which there is a woman 
who weaves, and a hearth, under a roof held up by a column, sym- 
bolizing the protection of Ishtar-Hestia- Vesta. 

Private dwellings, originally built of bricks and wood, were found 
and reconstructed on the streets of the ancient cities. Such houses 
seem to have been mostly built around an open court, giving to families 
and individuals the privacy which was neglected in later millennia. 
Modern architecture is making an effort today to recapture this 
lost value. 

Judging from the remnants of these houses, their walls were thick, 
the rooms not too large, but lofty; there were brick stairs, domestic 
chapels, kitchens, and lavatories with efficient drains of terracotta 
pipes. The builders seem to have respected the contemporary omen, 
probably inspired by a regard for privacy, inscribed on a tablet: 
"Rooms opening out of each other are unlucky but those opening 
on the court bring good luck." According to the excavator, "The 
houses bespoke comfort and even luxury." Considerable knowledge 
of architecture must have been evolved in Ur, even for the building 
of galleries and two-story houses, but of course more of it is evident 
in the planning and execution of the public buildings. 



644 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



We know that Sumerian arcliitects drew plans of the contemplated 
buildings and built accordingly. This is attested by a statue of Gudea 
in the Louvre, showing the priest-prince of Lagash holding in his 
lap the plan of the temple he built. 

Earlier, far more primitive glyptic representations show rulers 
carrying on their heads the basket of the masons, all evidence pointing 
to the fact that, while the later Assyrian rulers paraded usually in 
the role of formidable warriors, the Sumerian rulers wanted to convey 
to posterity the idea: "We were builders." And so they were. 
Among others, the early dynastic Temple Oval, excavated by P. 
Delougaz, was built according to a remarkable plan. 

Smnerians placed all their buildings, temples, palaces, office build- 
ings, treasuries, and libraries, on artificial platforms built of brick 
and bitumen, several yards high. The platform was constructed over 
soil hardened by filling and stamping and called temen — the word 
from which the Greek temenos and our temple originate. The reason 
for the platform is obvious — in the flat riverland protection from 
floods was necessary. 

In the great public buildings of the Sumerians, the excavators have 
found all basic elements of classic architecture — the colonnade, the 
arch, and the vault. In the ruins of many public buildings have 




Figure 12. — The ziggurat (temple hill) of Ur, reconstructed. 



been found carefully waterproofed boxes with foundation deposits, 
statuettes, and tablets — messages to posterity. Five such deposits 
were buried under the Inanna temple of Nippur, excavated in 1956. 

After Woolley's discoveries at Ur, the invention of the arch could 
no longer be attributed to the Etruscans or Assyrians. While there 
are in Egypt some ancient arches of an age comparable with those 
of Sumer, there the arch had neither the importance nor the frequency 
of application which this architectural element had in Mesopotamia, 
where the available building units, the bricks, were small and neces- 
sity would have prompted the invention. 

R. A. Jones (1941) suggests that Sumerians may have chanced 
upon the invention of the arch by the burning of the arched reed top 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



645 



of one of their reed buildings, when the mortar which covered the 
reeds was burned into a monolithic arch. If we may accept this 
explanation, we may also speculate as to whether the first "Gothic" 
cathedral was a mortar-covered reed building with the reeds burned 
out. The present-day reed buildings of southern Mesopotamia can- 
not fail to evoke in the spectator the feeling of aflSnity with the best 
Gothic style. The round "Eoman" arch has certainly stood in its 
classic beauty and perfection over doors overlooking the lowlands of 
Mesopotamia for many millennia from the ruins of Ur, antedating 
the founding of Eome by a long stretch of time. The influence of 
Sumerian art on that of Rome is demonstrated in the book of Jurgis 
Baltrusaitis, "Art Sumerien — Art Roman" (1934). 
Woolley (1935) discovered that, in their transition from the square 

plan to the round plan of the half 
dome, the Sumerian builders used a 
rough spherical triangle in the cor- 
ners of the room as support for the 
dome. He gives credit to the Sumerian 
architects for the invention of the 
pendentive, which is generally believed 
to have been developed in the Byzan- 
tine Age. 
It would be a great injustice to Sumerian builders not to recognize 
that they strove for beauty. We must remember that the more deli- 
cate touches of decorative art which we miss today on the remnants 
of the nude brick walls of the Sumerian buildings may have been 
there in perishable material — wood and textiles. Heuzey (1888) 
suggests this possibility and mentions the cedarwood and the rugs. 
Sumerians seem to have enjoyed the subtle play of harmony and 
contrast of materials and colors. They were the first to use the 
mosaic technique. But their essential achievement remains the master- 
ful use of rhythm in the proportioning of their buildings. 




Figure 13. — Imprint of marble cyl- 
inder worked with revolving burr. 
Animals and architectural detail. 



CERAMICS AND GLASS 

The fine clay carried to South Mesopotamia by the two great 
rivers was not only the basic material of architecture — foundations 
and walls, floors and drain pipes — ^but in a country completely void of 
stones, clay hardened by fire had to be used for making primitive 
tools, and in the deepest layers in which artifacts are found in 
Mesopotamia, clay objects are already abundant. Characteristic 
tools of the earliest agricultures are clay sickles, some of them with 
inlaid flint teeth. Along with these come the earliest clay statuettes 
of the first divinities. 

Naturally the largest number of clay sherds came from broken 



646 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 




vessels. The vessels found in the deepest layer were hand turned 
and delicately painted. The artifacts of this oldest culture, called 
Al-Ubaid, are covered by the 8-foot-thick clay 
layer of the flood, and above it come remnants 
of vessels, unpainted, but robust products of 
the real potter's wheel. At some time in the 
age called that of the Uruk culture, the potter's 
wheel was invented, obviously to provide for 
the needs of a rapidly increasing population. 
Fragments of the actual potter's wheel were 
excavated at Ur. Clay provided the Sumer- 
ians with jugs with which to feed their babies 
and water their plants. It was also made into 
dishes for banqueting; bowls, cups, chalices, 
squat jars, highnecked jars, large jars for hold- 
ing and for storing water, oil, and grain. Cof- 
fins, too, were sometimes made of pottery. It 
seems that in certain cases the clay statues of 
the gods were toasted with clay cups, the latter 
being afterward smashed — this is the explana- 
tion given for tons of broken pottery in the 
temple of Abu at Tell Asmar. No wonder 
that the Sumerian language abounds in expres- 
sions for different types of vessels. 

The wooden frame which made the mass production of uniform 
brick possible, and also the firing of bricks, were inventions of major 
importance. Sumerians had a 
special god in charge of brick- 
making; his name was Kabta. 

Clay was used for making 
many toys, and clay dice were 
found, dated to the First Dynasty 
of Ur, which are exactly like 
modern dice. Clay was the 
cheapest material with which to 
fashion traylike gaming boards, 
probably for the same games that the princes played on boards covered 
with engraved shells and precious stones. 

The world's first city map is preserved on a clay tablet ; a carefully 
drawn and perfectly recognizable map of the ancient Sumerian city 
of Nippur. 

However, the most important use of clay in Mesopotamia, from 
the point of view of the historian, is the clay tablet for writing. 
Tens of thousands of such tablets have been unearthed in Mesopo- 
tamia, covered with cuneiform writing. These texts, incised with a 



Figure 14. — Figure of 
winged goddess from 
clay plaque. Nippur. 




Figure 15. — Fragment of carved stone vase 
from Lagash, with a succession of spouting 
vases. 



Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 








Plate l 


H 


I, 


o « ? 


■^ 


'-a 


^ 3 .h 




-T3 










5 


•^ 


- "TD u 


^ 


<U 1) _c 


•-" 


rt 




-V 


'C 


-2 ^ c 


q 


s 


^ „ o 




O ^ oj 


sd 


3 


^ S 




C/^ 


CO P 




4-» 


iddes 
hell, 
," ar 



& 2 



hJ 



-T3 >. C 



ns 


U 


C 


OJ 




u. 


-o 


'cS 


u 


« 


5^ 






^O 


-13 


^ 


ON 


(U 






13' 




n" 


JI^ 


u 


^ 




i> 






3 


S 


^ 


r^ 




-iiT 




6C 



■M 







;5 




C 

-5 


'& 


lU 




o 


O 


-T3 


< 






T3 


u. 








s 


OJ 





'C 


X 


<; 


'3 


« 





0- 


rt 



-Hu 




Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 



PLATE 2 







^ 



h U 



U 



1- ;^ 




Smithsonian Report. 1959^BobuIa 



PLATE 3 




Smithsonian Report, 1959— Bobula 




Plate 4 






D, I- 
OS 6jO 



m 



2 -^ 



,h 






^ 3 



O ^ 



mithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 



Plate 5 




< 






„j- ^^ o 




Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 



Plate 6 




1. Stone mominient of King Ur-Nammu, founder of the 'i'hird Dynasty of Ur, ca. 2060 B.C. 
Libation propitiating deities of the date palm, the "tree of life." In the lower register 
the king carries the tools of the temple builder; his code is the first known code of law. 




2. Fragment of limestone relief from Ur; the oldest representation in art of a wheeled 
chariot, dated ca. 2500 B.C. The chariot is covered with the symbolic, spotted leopard 
skin. (Both objects in University Museum, Philadelphia.) 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



647 



reed stylus and then fired, varying from important historical texts 
or poems to all kinds of everyday accounts, give us more insight 
into the evei-yday life of Sumer than that which we get from 
Greek or Latin documents on peoples who lived much later. 

For many centuries, the Phoenicians were 
credited with the invention of glassmaking ; a 
story was current about their fortunate chanc- 
ing upon this important invention. The mod- 
ern excavations exploded the fable and made 
it clear that both the Egyptians and the Meso- 
potamians made glass long before the advent 
of the otherwise highly gifted Phoenicians. In early Mesopotamia 
glass occurs mostly as material for beads of glass paste, but in Nippur 
a small glass bottle also was found. 




i m 



o o 

o 
o o 



Figure 16. — Clay dice from 
Ur. 




Figure 17. — Clay tablet with cuneiform script, (de Genouillac, pI.TlS.) 

BITUMEN TECHNOLOGY— MOSAIC WORK 

Bitumen is a mineral pitch, a naturally occurring solid or semi- 
solid substance, related in chemical composition to crude petroleum. 
Bitumen and petroleum usually occur in the same vicinity. Natural 
bitumen seeps out of the earth in many places in Iraq, and it is near 
those ancient fomitains that man first learned to use this versatile 
material. 



5.3660S— 60- 



-46 



648 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

In the life of these early people, bitumen proved to be a most 
useful substance. It is pliable, resilient, and hardens in time; it is 
an adhesive; it can also be used for insulating and waterproofing. 
The earliest food stores, the underground silos of Hassuna village, 
south of Nineveh, were coated with bitumen. The early agriculturists 
of Hassuna and those of Jarmo, a settlement of even greater antiquity, 
used bitumen for toolmaking. Bitumen was the adhesive that held 
flints in the wooden hafts of tools, especially sickles used to harvest 
wheat and barley some 7,000 years ago. 

At the hands of the Sumerians the humble mineral pitch became 
a material of prime importance. It was the material that bonded 
the particles of artificial mountains, the ziggurats like that of Ur; 
it held the burnt bricks together ; it insulated the buildings, covered 
the pavements, and lined the boats made of reeds. Later, at the time 
of the Neo-Babylonian rule, Nebuchadnezzar recorded in his inscrip- 
tions that he fortified the walls with bitumen and covered with glisten- 
ing asphalt the roads of Babylon. 

Bitumen made possible the evolution of mosaic pictures. One 
of the most important achievements of early Sumerian art is the 
Standard of Ur, which comes to us from ca. 2600 B.C. One side 
shows an army going to war in leopard-skin coats, wearing helmets 
and carrying adzes, driving 4- wheeled battle chariots, which trample 
the enemy underfoot. The other side shows a peaceful feast — the par- 
ticipants wear only the fringed loincloth, the gada. They eat, drink, 
and listen to the singer and the harpist. This work of art, salvaged 
and preserved with infinite care by the hands of British scholars, 
is now the pride of the British Museum. A fine reproduction is in 
the collection of Mesopotamian pictures by Christian Zervos (1935). 

The oldest specimen of inlaid pictures comes from Al-Ubaid; it 
is the famous frieze of white cows, calves, and stocky Sumerians 
processing milk around the sacred stall gate of the goddess Inanna, 
contrasting strikingly with a black shale background. This frieze is 
dated to ca. 2800 B.C. 

STONE CUTTING 

As all stone objects found in southern Mesopotamia are made from 
imported material, it is little wonder that much care was taken in 
carving and embellishing these precious objects. Stone door sockets 
of temples were usually marked with cuneiform signs; millstones 
were important economic assets. One of the Sumerian weapons, 
perhaps the oldest one, used by kings and often dedicated to gods, 
was the stone mace. Sacred traditions seemed to demand stone vessels 
with which to honor gods and royalty. Marble, alabaster, and carnel- 
ian were carved into vessels of exquisitely harmonious, simple shapes. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



649 




650 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



Lapis lazuli, the dark blue semiprecious stone, was one of the most 
popular materials for inlaid jewelry, beads, and cylinder seals, though 
this stone, like diorite and obsidian, had to be imported from distant 
lands. 




Figure 19. — Fragment of stone stela; the thunderbolt god Ningirsu with eagle and stone 

mace. 

The cylinder seal, a large cylinder-shaped carved bead which the 
owner wore also as a proud ornament, was one of the original Sumerian 
inventions. Every seal was engraved differently; there are no two 
seals with identical designs. The design of the seal symbolized the 
owner and marked his property. A jar of oil or wine or a barrel of 




Figure 20. — Royal cylinder seal. 

corn could be closed with a stamp of wet clay ; the seal was then rolled 
over it and this print identified ownership. Documents written by 
scribes on wet clay were affirmed by the seals of the contracting parties. 
Naturally, the design had to be sophisticated enough to be unique. 
Seals and impressions are so abundant in Mesopotamian sites that 
Legrain (1951) calls their collection "one of our most constant and 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



651 



reliable indices of the changing aspects of art and culture during 
almost three thousand years." It is characteristic of the inner struc- 
ture of Sumerian society that even the 
slaves, male or female, had their seals, 
i.e., they had lost their freedom, but not 
their identity. The idea of printing with 
cylinder seals is essentially identical with 
the principle of the giant cylinders of our 
printing presses: both perform the me- 
chanical reproduction of a pattern. The 
history of printing begins with the cylin- 
der seal. 
The art of the gem cutters of ancient 
Ur produced artifacts of surprising and, in this field, unsurpassed 
beauty. The sculptors of statues were more handicapped by their 
material ; nevertheless, they met the challenge. 

It is from small blocks of the imported stone that Sumerian artists 
carved their statues, impressive portraits of men and women of long 
ago. Quite often a large head sits on a Lilliputian body ; there was 
not enough stone to carve whole life-size statues, and the head was 
favored. But some of these statues from tlie third millennium are 




Figure 21. — Ram carved of 
amulet of Prince Mes-Kalam Dug. 



lapis; 




Figure 22. — Fragment of soapstone vase, from Nippur. (National Museum, Istanbul.) 

quite realistic and in matter of beauty are above archaic Greek art. 
To mention three examples : the alabaster head in the University of 
Pennsylvania Museum, the Boston head, and the hauntingly beautiful 
"Lady of Warka." The French orientalist Leon Heuzey (1902) 
compared the art of the Sumerian sculptors with that of their Assyr- 
ian followers, who worked many centuries later. He found that the 
Sumerians surpassed in this respect the later empire builders. 
Sumerian sculpture is characterized by two marks of mastery : work- 
ing in hard stone and working in the round. Heuzey's judgment is 



652 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 




Figure 23. — Engraved shell plaque 
from a gaming board. Animals 
locked in combat. 



supported by that of James Henry Breasted (1916), late director of 
the Oriental Institute of the Univer- 
sity of Chicago, who wrote, "The early 
Sumerian lapidaries soon became the 
finest craftsmen of the kind in the 
ancient Oriental world and their influ- 
ence has not yet disappeared from our 
own decorative art." Seton Lloyd, a 
contemporary authority on art and 
archeology writes also (1955) that the 
Sumerian statues are masterpieces 
which rival the work of almost any 
period in the history of art. 

The engravers and stone cutters also 
used shell. A steatite bowl, artfully 
inlaid with shell flowers, is one illus- 
tration of this graceful art, and a gaming board of engraved shell 
squares encased in silver also was found at Ur. Shell was often used 
as inlay in the statues ; the eyeballs were carved of shell, which turned 
gold-brown w^ith age. The irises were sometimes made of lapis lazuli 
disks, and the lifelike colors give a powerful charm to these old 
portraits. 

METALLURGY 

Plinius the younger, the Roman scholar, tells us that according to 
Aristoteles, the art of smelting and working copper was invented by 
a Lydian called Scythes. A blurred 
tradition seems to point here in the 
direction of w^estern Asia. Far more 
tenuous speculations have been printed 
in our time about some unknown i^eople 
having developed metallurgy at an un- 
certain date in Asia Minor. Two ex- 
perts of the Metropolitan Museum, 
Bowlin and Farwell, write (1950) that 
"The great discovery [of bronze cast- 
ing] probably came first in southwest 
Asia around 3000 or 2800 B.C. Egypt 
reached a bronze age by 2500 and the 
Greek world by 1500 B.C." Parts of 
northern Europe did not achieve this 
stage of evolution until many centuries 
later. P. Rousseau (195G) in his "His- 
toire des Techniques" states unequivo- 
cally that bronze was a Sumerian inven- 
tion. It seems probable that the place 
where the firing of clay objects originated and the technique of the 




Figure 24. — Fragment of stone 
relief from Lagash: Divinity with 
harpoon. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



653 




Figure 25. — Design from engraved silver vase: Lion-headed eagle and quadrupeds. 

potter's kiln developed was the natural location for the development 
of the smelting furnace. 

Rich copper deposits, available for smelting and casting copper and 
bronze, occur in the mountain districts of western Asia — Anatolia, 
Armenia — whence, as many scholars believe, the Sumerians descended 
into the plains of southern Mesopotamia. But they never forgot the 
mountain lands, source of all blessing. The goddess Nin-Hursag, the 
Lady of the Mountain, reigns over the sacred hills, which are ex- 
pressly stated to yield gold, silver, and bronze. Gordon Childe 
(1928) states that the Sumerians also made large implements from 
iron. The mountain mines supplied the craftsmen of the lowlands 
with precious raw materials — gold, silver, copper, and tin — and the 
earliest masterpieces of the metalworker known to humanity are cer- 
tainly those that have come to light from the Royal Tombs of Sumer. 

In these wonderful collections of the earliest art, metals are used 
plentifully for vessels, weapons, tools, and jewelry. Sheets of metal 
were also used to cover beams of temples and statuettes of wood and 
bitumen. Metal heads of animals decorated sledges, musical instru- 
ments, and furniture. Shell-shaped silver lamps liglited the grave of 
Queen Shubad. There were many tools — chisels, saws, harpoons. 




ll^ f^^/l^ 





Figure 26. — Gold lion heads, which decorated the chariot of Queen Shubad. 



654 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

knives, and razors. Mirrors and small, delicate gold and silver man- 
icure sets were also found. Prince Mes-Kalam-Dug was buried with 
a spear of copper stuck into his grave; an electrum axhead was at 
his right shoulder. A beautiful copper relief, now in the University 
of Pennsylvania Museum, was hammered from a copper sheet in 
repousse work. Lead rings were sometimes gold plated. Sheets of 
metal were nailed to cores of wood with small nails, as in the case of a 
copper horn discovered at Tello (Lagash) . 

Graves of the more important personalities contamed vessels of 
metal in quantity. Some of these cups and bowls are beautifully 
shaped and fluted, sometimes engraved. The cups had obvious ritual 
importance; one was usually placed in the hands, near the mouth of 





Figure 27. — Gold amulets of the queen. 

the dead, probably with the hope that a benevolent divinity would 
some day pour into them the drink of life. To the category of vessels 
belong the long tubes of metal through which the Sumerians sucked 
beer from large jars. 

The weapons of the Sumerians were the mace, the spear, and the 
dagger, a sickle-shaped sword, the bow and arrow, but especially the 
socketed and "toothed" pickax or adz. A poem written in cmieiform 
signs celebrated the creation of this national weapon by the war 
god for his chosen people so that they may build cities with it, but 
also keep malefactors in their place. 

Woolley (1950) describes a gold dagger as "a wonderful weapon, 
whose blade was gold, its hilt of lapis lazuli decorated with gold studs 
and its sheath of gold beautifully worked with an openwork pattern 
derived from plaited grass." With this dagger was found "an object 
scarcely less remarkable, a coneshaped reticule of gold ornamented 
with a spiral pattern and containing a set of little toilet instruments, 
tweezers, lancet and pencil also of gold . . . they revealed an art 
hitherto unsuspected." 




SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 655 

Gold was used for much of the jewelry worn by men and women — 
beads, rings, bracelets, earrings, chains, cylinder seals, headdresses, 
and bands. It is probable that there was plenty of filigree silver 

jewelry, too, but most of it perished 
in the earth. In a specially for- 
tunate instance, a silver hair rib- 
bon came to light in the folds of 
the robes of a court lady who died 
at Ur ; the ribbon survived because 
it remained in a coil. The owner 
may have hurried in order not to 
be left out of the mass funeral, and 
she had no time to put on her 

Figure 28. — Gold bird with lapis tail. 

Larger silver objects had more 
chance to survive the passage of millennia, though their restoration 
was difficult. The silver from Ur was encrusted with a thick layer 
of silver chloride, some so-called secondary silver from wliich copper 
had been leeched out, and in some cases with copper. 
A. Kenneth Graham wrote (1929) : 

... to reproduce the silver bowl (of Ur) would require no ordinary amount 
of skill even vt^ith modern methods. The silver alloy M'ould first have to be 
prepared and cast into convenient form. It would then be alternately heated 
in a furnace (annealed) and rolled until a flat sheet of the desired thickness 
is obtained. The silversmith would carefully study the shape of the object to 
be produced and then proceed to cut a pattern out of the flat sheet metal. 
He would then prepare forms upon which the metal would be hammered to 
the finished shape. 

Microscopic examination of the structure of Ur silver showed that 
indeed this was the way in which these old silver objects were made, 
and they are technologically "worthy accomplishments." 

AVliile gold objects usually take care of themselves, restoration of 
silver is the glory of the museum experts, and ingenious methods 
have been developed by which today's master craftsmen pay tribute 
to those of the past, while proving, and allowing others to realize, 
how great was the mastery of these early metalworkers, who pro- 
duced masterpieces of unsurpassed beauty. 

Let us once again quote from Sir Leonard Woolley, who describes 
the helmet of prince Mes-Kalam-Dug : 

It was a helmet of beaten gold made to fit low over the head with cheek 
pieces to protect the face and it was in the form of a wig, the locks of hair 
hammered up in relief, the individual hairs shown by delicate engraved lines. 
Parted down the middle, the hair covers the head in flat wavy tresses and 
is bound round with a twisted fillet. ... As an example of goldsmith's work 
this is the most beautiful thing we have found . . . and if there were nothing 
else by which the art of these ancient Sumerians could be judged we should 



656 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



still, on the strength of it alone, accord them high rank in the roll of civilized 
races. 

CHEMISTRY 

Who was the first chemist? Probably the man or woman who dis- 
covered that heat makes some kinds of food tastier. The first achieve- 
ments of applied physical chemistry were most probably connected 
Avith food. From these modest beginnings evolved further progress. 
Gordon Childe, the Australian scholar and excavator, stated (1958) 
that all early kilns to fire pottery developed from the prehistoric 




Figure 29. 



-Offerings of food are brought to the goddess, who holds the symbol of life. 
Seal. 



bread-baking oven, and the potter's kiln may well have been the ances- 
tor of the smelting furnace. M. E. L. Mallowan, one of the great 
archeologists, describes (1930) the beehive-shaped bread ovens and 
the cooking ranges with flat, fired-clay tops and circular flues of the 
Sumerians. 

Refined cookery always bespeaks a highly evolved old culture, and 
this was the case in Sumeria. The Sumerian lexical material has 
a number of expressions which could be used only by gourmets. 
Judging from the beauty and variety of their dishes and cups and the 
many monuments portraying banquets and symposiums, they were a 
convivial people with a robust joie de vivre, 
which gave important place to the pleasures of 
the table. 

Our earliest records of food come from the 
Sumerians, who certainly knew how to roast 
meat and fish and cook vegetables, how to 
grind flour and meal, knead dough, bake bread, 
churn butter, press oil from olives, make wine 
from grapes, and ferment barley for beer and 
dates for some sweet, strong drink. 

Small grinding stones were still in the brick-floored kitchen of 
the high priestess in the temple of the goddess Ningal at Ur, when 
the Joint Expedition of the University of Pennsylvania Museum and 




Figure 30. — Man and 
woman drink beer from 
one vessel, through long 
tubes. A third person 
raises his hand in blessing. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



657 



the British Museum (1927-57) discovered it. Maybe breads and 
cakes were made here, about which we read in later inscriptions; 
these were needed for ritual purposes. It seems that for the benefit 
of field and garden, seven breads were needed, made with oil, honey, 
flour, and sour cream. The Mesopotamian recipe in cmieiform re- 
sembles that of the festive cake called mezeskaldcs still made in 
Hungary. The Sumerian cakes were cast upon the waters; again a 
ritual not unlike the one called lepenvetes which was followed up 
to some decades ago in Transylvania. 

Recipes for making "heavy" beer, "black" beer, and "red" beer 
have been deciphered. Nineteen varieties of beer are enumerated in 
Sumerian texts. All these must have contributed to good cheer at the 
symposiums which seem to have been favorite high points in the life 
of the Sumerians. 

To keep themselves young and beautiful, the Sumerian ladies 
resorted to cosmetics. Cockleshells were the usual containers for 
cosmetics and of these some are present in most of the feminine 
graves. The cosmetics, of which traces have survived for thousands 
of years, were paints, the powdered remnants of which kept their 
colors; they may be white, black, blue, or red, but according to Sir 
Leonard Woolley (1950), "the normal colour is green." Queen Shu- 




FiGURE 31. — Box for cosmetics, made of silver, engraved shell, and lapis. 



bad used green paint, perhaps to match green eyes. She had not only 
large natural cockleshells for her cosmetics, but imitation shells, too, 
one of gold and another of silver. She kept her kohl or stibium, her 
black paint, in a box made of silver, engraved shell, and lapis lazuli. 
L. Legrain (1929b), another member of the team which excavated Ur, 
relates that "calcite vases, half empty, show on the surface of the 
black cosmetic the print of dainty fingers dipped in it centuries ago." 



658 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

A chemical analysis of these cosmetics, made by Kemieth Graham 
(1929) soon after their discovery, states : 

One sample of what appeared to be a light blue clay was found to contain large 
quantities of aluminium phosphate, copper, lead and carbonate, with traces of 
iron, calcium and silica. One would conclude that this was powdered turquoise, 
a naturally occurring mineral consisting of hydrated aluminium phosphate with 
the usual copper impurity in sufficient quantity to color it blue. 

A second sample of blacli powder, similar to antimony or "kohl," was found 
upon analysis to contain a large amount of manganese and lead, with small 
quantities of copper, aluminium, phosphate, carbonate, silica, and iron. The last 
six substances were evidently present as turquoise, as described above ; the black 
colour could only be attributed to the manganese, the black oxide of which is 
a naturally occurring mineral, pyrolusite. 

The presence of lead and carbonate in both samples is quite unexpected, as 
they are not associated with either turquoise or pyrohasite in nature and must 
have been added purposely. The oxides of lead are coloured and when mixed 
with the above minerals in powdered form give attractive shades of brown, 
red and purple. 

The expert adds that the presence of lead in the cosmetics was a 
serious health hazard. This raises the question : did Queen Shubad 
of Ur and her lady friends risk lead poisoning, or did they have besides 
the poisonous paint some kind of neutral foundation cream that pro- 
tected the skin from the poison? At any rate, one feels that the 
fabrication of such sophisticated toiletries is a sign of extraordinary 
achievements in chemistry. 

There are no direct indications that the Sumerians knew and used 
soap. But we may infer this knowledge from the fact that men 
shaved their heads and faces, a process which would have been too 
painful without soap. The second point to consider is the name "soap" 
from the Latin sapo^ both reminiscent of Sumerian zeeb^ which meant 
"beautiful." Soap was a cleanser, hence a beautifier. 

To soap and paint, we must add perfume — this was probably in the 
form of a scented, spiced ointment, called ^7•, a transitional product 
between cosmetics and medicines. Sesame oil, butter, and sheep's fat 
were sent from the temple stores to the ir makers; these must have 
been their raw materials. There were many medicines, and we have 
inherited on clay tablets a number of prescriptions which seem to 
utilize ingredients coming from the mineral, zoological, and botanical 
realms. The favorite minerals were sodiiun chloride (salt) and 
potassium nitrate (saltpeter) . The powdered wood of some fruit trees, 
such as pear, fig, and date, as well as of willow and fir, was used for 
healing. We do not know what plant was called "moon-flower" by 
the Sumerians, but among their medicines cassia, myrtle, thyme, and 
asafetida may be identified with reasonable certainty. AVliat the 
Sumerians called gamun and the Accadians hamun is probably the 
same herb that we call cumin. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 659 

VEHICLES 

The excavators of Ur were awed to find among the earliest 
Mesopotamian sculptures a limestone relief depicting a wheeled 
chariot. "The plain wheels are made of two semicircular pieces, 
joined by copper clamps round a central core. The wheel, a great 
human discovery, was in use at Ur more than fifteen hundred years 
before it was imported into Egypt," said one of the early reports 
published by the University of Pennsylvania. 




Figure 32. — Electrum mascot from the queen's sledge. 

Soon the real wheels of the archaic period came to light, in the Royal 
Tombs of Ur, in Kish, and Susa. They were the wheels of four- 
wheeled chariots. The earliest indication of the use of wheeled 
vehicles is a pictograph sign in one of the oldest written documents 
of humanity — a clay tablet from the temple of the goddess Inanna 
in Uruk dated to ca. 3500 B.C. The wheels of clay model chariots 
were first found in the Uruk stratum, though the earliest known 
picture of a wheeled vehicle is on a seal impression of the Jamdet 
Nasr age. Sir Leonard Woolley (1955) credits the epoch-making 
invention to the people of the Sumerian temple city Uruk (Warka). 

In the years following the excavations, feeble but repeated efforts 
were made to blur the picture and raise doubts about this outstanding 
achievement of the Sumerians. In opposition to such efforts, a body of 
experts working on the five- volume pioneer study of Oxford Uni- 
versity's History of Technology reached the conclusion that the 
wheel was most likely invented about 3500 B.C. in Lower Mesopo- 
tamia, and that it was an original invention. 

There is every reason to suppose that the boat was an even older 
vehicle than the chariot. The clay model fomid in a man's grave 



660 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



at Eridu, was called "probably the earliest model of a sailing ship" 

(Lloyd, 1948b). The earliest Sumerian graveyards yielded silver, 

copper, and clay models of boats. 

We know from inscriptions that the 

Sumerians undertook boat voyages 

of several years, cruising to obtain 

luxuries from far lands for their 

temple-states. Sailcloth for boats 

was woven in the highly organized 

workshops of the temples. 

If we accept the opinion that the 
thought is the father of the deed, then we must remember, when speak- 
ing about aviation, that the first story about a man ascending in the 
air on wings w^as the ancient story of Etana, told on a tablet and illus- 
trated by several carvings on cylinder seals, some dating to the Akkad 
period. Etana was a good shepherd, who, when his flocks and his wife 
were stricken with barrenness, went to search for an herb, source of life. 




Figure 33. — Archaic boat. Seal. 




Figure 34. — Cylinder illustrating man's first attempt to fly. 

He mou-ited an eagle and rose up in the air, but when near his 
goal, he was hurled back to earth. This legend is the earliest Imown 
tale of flying by man. 

CLOTHING 

Leather seems to have been the main material from which Sumer- 
ians made their clothing in the oldest times, when they lived in a cooler 
mountain land. Sheepskins protected them from bitter winds, and 
it is probably the ancient tradition which survives in the sheepskin 
caps worn by later princes like Gudea and Ur-Ningirsu. The 




Figure 35. — Ladies' wearing apparel, from seal cylinder. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



661 




Figure 36. — "Migration scene," on seal of king of Uruk, in Sargon's age. Men wore boots 

when they had to migrate. 

statuary has transmitted to posterity the carefully carved curls of 
baby lambs on these early specimens of headwear, from which many 
later shapes developed. The archaic, original form of this sheepskin 
cap is still worn unchanged by peoples of Eurasia, who inherited or 
borrowed customs from the Sumerian civilization. Heuzey (1888) 
calls the hat one of the important Sumerian inventions. 

It seems that the men of the army, when going to war, wore a 
special coat made of spotted leopard skin. This military garment is 
clearly visible on the Standard of Ur. Leather was probably used 
for archaic kilts, belts, headdresses, and footwear. 

Leather perishes in the course of millennia, but many written ref- 
erences to leather objects surive. Leather workers are often enumer- 
ated in the lists of craftsmen such as the long list given by Dr. Anna 
Schneider (1920) in her book on the Sumerian temple city. Statues 
of kings, usually destined to stand in temples, are as a rule barefoot, 
in pious hiunility, but boots are sometimes apparent on cylinder 
seals. 

Wool, another animal product, was certainly used by the Sumer- 
ians. We know of many references to wool being shorn, transported, 




Figure 37. — Fallow deer, engraved on shell plaque. 



G62 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 












; -«„ 



: h 



O 



fc 



nithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 



Plate 7 




^ 


■^ 


-a 








1) 


£f 


rd 


'~C 


■ p 


t- 






*c5 


-a 


.2 








>.U 



^ ^ 



< 



.S! ■I-' 



o 



^■-1 a 

rt 1) Q lU 







-n rt 3 



a; .•=: 

O C o 



O ^ 



O >^ '^ -^ 



bci O 



o r 



^ ^ J O 
S "2 o I 



03 


o 




^ 




-a 




t-< 




V 

1) 


a 


"5 


< 


OS 


C 




■^ 


T3 




Xi 


O 




u 


G 


>. 


ni 


JS 


_o 


T3 


OS 

Ml 


aj 


< 


o 


c« 


C 


c 






u 






'«l; 


3 

o 
U 


■*-' 


<L) 


< 


u 




t)0 






rH 



Smithsonian Report, 1 959 — Bobula 



Plate 8 










V, ^ '^ ^ 



Cu 




(J 


'C 


n! 


OS 


, , 


CL, 


CS 




D 


c/T 


■*-* 


u 


Lh 


D 


V 


CT 


_C 


IS 






hJ < 



u 



CO OJ 




>r'''^'^ 






WW-. 



& J 



1^ t 



PQ 



Smithsonian Report, lOSQ— Bobula 



PLATE 9 




The Ram of Ur, animal portrait executed in the first half of the third millennium B.C. with 
great mastery, on core of wood and bitumen, from hammered gold sheet. (Courtesy 
University Museum, Philadelphia.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1959 — Bobula 



Plate 10 





Smithsonian Report, 1959 — Bobula 



Plate 1 1 





P^ 





n 


00 


(U 


oj 


c 


^ 
















•r^ 




u. 




n 


3 


<U 


O 


S 


o 


>-i 




X^ 




■^ 


a. 


& 










n 


a; 


V 


C 

15 




oi 




-t-T 


•p 


a 


^ 


t*-, 


^ 


<!- 


O 


V 


O 


O 


>. 


"o 


u 




oc 


<u 


s 


1) 


^ 


U^ 


c 


t^ 


D 





C/2 


en 


-n 


p 


(U 


o 


o 


J3 


:_ 




P 



u 



5 U 



Smithsonian Report, 1959.- Bobula 



Plate 12 




1. Gold vessels of queen Shubad, from Ur, ca. 2600 B.C. 




2. Socketed gold ad?, from Ur, the beloved and celebrated special weapon of the Sumerians. 
(Courtesy University Museum, Philadelphia.) 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBXJLA 



663 



sold, or delivered to the temples, where groups of workers did the 
spinning and weaving. The magic texts of healing tell us about the 
spinsters of the goddess of love, Inanna, who spun "black wool, white 
wool, mixed wool, wonderful yams." Such yarns were also used to 
"bind sickness." 

Wool was tinted. The great ladies wore on festive occasions coats 
of bright red wool, tiny powder-fragments of which survived in the 
graves. However, linen was also known, and there is every reason to 
believe that linen was the everyday wear in the hot climate of Mesopo- 
tamia. Temple accounts enumerate common, hemmed, and splendid 
linen. The simple skirtlike garaient of the men, which left the body 
above the belt uncovered, is worn by the relaxed banqueters of the 
Standard of Ur. Women's bodies are almost always completely 
covered with flounced skirts and fringed shawls. A long evolution 
of weaving and spinning techniques must have preceded these sophis- 
ticated textiles. 

The earliest textiles of humanity were probably those made from 
water plants. Every child who has access to plants growmg in 
marshland starts pleating and weaving them. This primitive and 
natural teclinique must have evolved into the later forms of spinning 
and weaving wool, hemp, and linen. The loom was already known 
in the early Al'Ubaid culture, as shown by the surviving stone weights. 
In the time of the royal graves, the art of weaving, dyeing, and sew- 
ing was already fully developed. Some of the court ladies went to 
their death in elaborate sleeved coats. 

The ancient art of weaving large, 
beautiful shawls survived for a long 
time in Mesopotamia; there are ref- 
erences to it in classic literature. 
The Greeks called these shawls 
haunakes. "Wlien the Sumerians dis- 
appeared, their high textile art, radi- 
ated into the surrounding areas, 
seems to have been revived in many 
places. The legend of the arch-spin- 
ner, Arachne, localized to Lydia, 
seems to indicate that the Greeks 
learned the art from that direction. 
Arachne, daughter of Idmon of Colo- 
phon in Lydia, was, according to the 
myth, so skilled in weaving that she 
dared to challenge the goddess Athena to a contest. Arachne won, 
but frustrated, angry Athena changed her into a spider. 




Figure 39. — -Gold miniature of stag, 
from the queen's beaded headdress. 



536608—60- 



664 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



The most primitive textiles, the ancient reed mats and baskets, also 
survived, made by the inhabitants of Mesopotamia in unchanging pat- 
terns as long as there were Sumerians and even long after they 
departed. Keed mats were used for wrapping the bodies of the poor 
for simple burials. Woolley (1950) writes: 

It is an astonishing tiling that in soil wherein so much that seems enduring 
decays entirely, a fragile thing like a piece of matting, though it lose all its 
substance and can be blown away with a breath, yet retains its appearance 
and its texture and can with care be exposed in such condition that a photo- 
grapn of it looks like one of the real matting which perished 4,500 years ago. 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 
Music, like dancing, had ritual aspects in the early days of Sumer. 

The harp . . . and the clang of cymbals accompanied the chanting of 
prayers in Sumerian temples. The small harp was sufficient for the private 
chapel of the queen. The magnificent harps of gold and silver discovered of 
late in the royal tombs must have been used in official ceremonies. . . . The 
cymbals of Shubad's time [ca. 2500 B.C.] were flat metal pieces, straight or 
horn-shaped, which the dancers struck in cadence. They are seen in the hands 
of the kid dancing behind the scorpion man ; in the hands of a cymbal player, 
on a gold cylinder seal of the high priestess buried in the domed vault dis- 
covered last winter ; in the hands of a woman musician of the Kish inlaid 
plaques. Curiously enough, the museiun has two such plates of copper brought 
from Fara 30 years ago . . . most likely Sumerian cymbals of Queen Shubad's 
age. They are curved, 35 centimeters long and 4 in width at the larger end. 
(Legrain, 1929b.) 

The large drum, which is often depicted by Smnerian lapidaries, 
also must have been an instrument of ritual music ; later texts speak 
of driving away the evil spirits with the sound of the drum. 




Figure 40. — Masquerade; animals as musicians. Inlay picture on a large harp from Ur. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



665 



Kiengira, the "Holy Land of Reeds," was the origmal name of 
Sumer. A reedland would be the natural home of the reed pipe. We 
do not know of any reed pipes which could have survived the ordeal 
of entombment for thousands of years, but the University of Penn- 
sylvania possesses a fine pair of silver pipes, called sometimes "a 
double oboe" (pi. 11, fig. 3). 

The same museum is the proud owner of two wonderful Sumerian 
harps, lyres, and crosses of these two types. Woolley (1950), who 
found many of them at Ur, describes them thus : 

One of these harps was the most magnificent that we have yet found ; its 
sounding box was bordered with a broad edging of mosaic in red and white 
and blue, the two uprights were encrusted with shell and lapis lazuli and red 
stone arranged in zones separated by wide gold bands, the cross-bar was half 
of plain wood, half plated with silver, shell plaques engi-aved with animal 
scenes adorned the front and above these projected a splendid head of a 
bearded bull wrought in heavy gold. [PI. 10, fig. 1.] 

A second lyre in the same place was all of silver, with a cow's head, 
a third with a stag, and a fourth with two stags. Woolley wonders, 




Figure 41. — Scorpion-man and kid dancing. 

were the instruments of "different sorts, the bull denoting the bass, 
the cow the tenor and the stag perhaps the alto ? Then the finding 
of four lyres together in one grave might imply a system of harmony, 
w^hich, at this early date, would be of a very great interest for the 
history of music." 

Musical instruments are depicted on Sumerian steles and other stone 
fragments, shown in table 426 of Christian's (1940) Altertumskunde. 
There were bells, rattles, sistrums, and a great variety of primitive 
and sophisticated instruments. 



666 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



The Oxford History of Music (Buck, 1929) begins with a chapter 
on Greek music, followed by a second chapter, "Music of the Hebrews." 
In these and the following chapters, it is acknowledged that all Greek 
music had its origins in Asia Minor and that the characteristic and 
celebrated musical instruments of the Greeks and Hebrews are known 
from ages long preceding the times of those peoples. But these facts 
are told only in the footnotes. There we read about the Sumerian 
kithara represented on a bas relief from Tello, which is now in the 
Salle Sarzec of the Louvre ; "as pictured, this kithara evinces a high 
standard of craf tmanship and theoretical knowledge." 

The same source, speaking of the remote origin of the lute, mentions 
the smallest member of the family, the tamboura, which figures on a 
bas relief coeval with the above- 
mentioned, coming also from the 
palace of Gudea, Sumerian ruler 
of ancient Lagash. We may add 
that Donald E. JNIcCown exca- 
vated at Nippur in 1952 a clay 
plaque with the figure of a man 
holding a lute. 

The number and diversity of 
surviving musical instruments and 
the cuneiform documents men- 
tioning different types of songs 
are witnesses to a fairly high mu- 
sical culture in Sumerian cities be- 
tween the third and the second 
millenniums B.C. One wonders 

if scholarship will ever proceed to the point of reconstructing and 
reviving the music of the Sumerians? A courageous effort was made 
by F. W. Galpin (1937). 

CONCLUSION 

From architecture to music, all arts and crafts of today owe a cer- 
tain debt to the ancient masters of Sumer. The present brief sketch 
of Sumerian achievements in the field of technology is far from ex- 
hausting the field, nor was this even attempted. Yet we cannot con- 
clude this review without mentioning two important branches of 
human activity, from which the technical know-how is inseparable: 
the sciences and the art of healing. 

It has been stated and far too often repeated, more or less explicitly, 
that the human communities preceding the classic period of antiquity 
lived in the darkness of despicable black magic and superstition. 
This is not a fair picture; there has certainly been an evolution in 




Figure 42. 



-Mountain goats; 
shell plaque. 



engraved 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 



667 



human knowledge, but it has been a slow transition and there is no 
sharp dividing line between earlier western Asian and later east 
European wisdoms. 

A closer look at the world of these very ancient Magi discloses that 
their "magic" was founded on the carefully collected and transmitted 
sum of observations made by the type of men whom today we would 
call scholars. Many generations of Magi observed the facts of 
weather, the march of the stars, the changes of the seasons, the 
phenomena connected w4th plants, animals, and human beings, and 
they combined these observations. 

The Magus was the man who had observed the fact, or received in 
secret teaching the important information, that when the sun's disk 
ascends between the horns of the constellation Capricorn it means the 
end of winter. The force of the sun returns, the days are lengthen- 
ing, and he may preach to a depressed people the good news of the 
coming of the spring, the end of winter's misery. 

Men and women able to predict the changes of weather, ever so 
important to primitive peoples, were the first scientists; their knowl- 
edge gave them power and raised them to the status of priest-princes. 
The source of this power remained for a long time the continued 
careful and ritual observations of the heavenly bodies and other 
natural iDhenomena that constitute astrology, the parent of modern 
astronomy. 

Sumerian healing art was far from being silly superstition. Before 
suggesting therapy, the Sumerian physicians had to recite conscien- 
tiously the diagnosis. Their prescriptions, concocted from plants, 
animals, and minerals, given wath beer as a chaser, sound quite rational 
as witnessed by a tablet in the University of Pennsylvania Museum 
which has been called the oldest page in medical history. This Sumer- 




FiGURE 43. — The seal of a physician, on gray limestone cylinder. 



668 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 



ian clay document from Nippur is completely free from the mystical 
and irrational elements which characterize later Babylonian medicine. 
Sumerian medics had their medicines, but obviously they found it 
useful to add psychotherapeutic treatment. 

One is surprised to read recent, lengthy books on the history of 
human civilization and the great inventions of mankind in which 
the authors ignore or persistently belittle the basic contributions of 
western Asia and especially those of the Sumerians. It is quite arbi- 
trary to state that the Sumerians lived before philosophy began, or that 
their knowdedge was not real "science." The early speculations of 
the Sumerians, embodied in their myths, on the essence, cause, and 
nature of things, are the foundation and beginning of philosophy. 
It is natural that, like all beginnings, these ideas are primitive. But 
it should be gratefully recognized that the Sumerians not only 
invented and developed the whole series of metal tools which artist 
and craftsman use even today for creative work — the adzes, chisels, 
saws, awls, drills, and many others — but they also created the basic 
abstract tools and categories of scientific work for today's Western 
scholar. Early Sumerian tablets contain enumerations of fishes, birds, 
domestic animals, and plants which the ancient writers observed and 
grouped. The categories they created laid the groundwork for such 
branches of science as zoology and botany. The basic operations 
in mathematics, including algebra, and our system of metrology are 
a legacy from the Sumerians. They taught us to measure length by 
foot, weight by pomid, land by acre. They evolved the sexagesimal 
system, they divided the circle into 360 degrees, the day into hours, 
and the hour into 60 minutes. The tablets show that they knew and 
used the theorems later attributed to Euclid and Pythagoras long 
before the birth of these great Greeks. For a wealth of fascinating 
details the reader is referred to the bibliograj)hy following this article, 
which for technical reasons cannot be complete, but many of the books 
mentioned will give further references to other books and periodicals 
in the field. 




Figure 44. — Procession of women. Seal cylinder. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 669 

Sumerian nature and thought do not appeal equally to all modern 
students, and many of the primitive speculations about presages and 
other irrational elements are obviously unacceptable. But mixed 
with these are elements of timeless value, and these should be recog- 
nized. Sumerian thought paved modern man's %Yay in getting 
acquainted with his still puzzling miiverse. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Permission to reproduce figures 2-6, 8-11, 13, 15, 19, 20, 24, 25, 29, 
30, 33-36, 43, and 44, from William Hayes Ward's "The Seal Cylinders 
of Western Asia," was kindly granted by the Carnegie Institution 
of Washington. 

By courtesy of the University Museum of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania are included figures 7, 21-23, 26-28, 32, 37-39, and 42, drawings 
originally made by Miss M. Louise Baker for the Museum Journal. 

For figures 12, 14, 16, 18, 40, and 41, and last, but not least, for the 
map, figure 1, 1 am indebted to Dr. Manuela Kogutovicz. 

I wish to express my heartfelt thanks to all who have helped me 
in the preparation of this article. 

Acknowledgments for the photographs on the plates are under 
the pictures. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Al-Asil, Naji. 

1949. Dudu, the Sumerian scribe. Sumer, vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 130-132. 
Amiet, Pierre. 

1951. La Ziggurat d'apres les cylindres de I'epoque arcliaique. Rev. As- 

syriol., voL 45, No. 2, pp. 80-88. 
Andrae, Walter. 

1922. Die archaischen Ischtartempel in Assur. Leipzig. 

1930. Das Gotteshaus and die Urformen des Baues im alten Orient. 
Baltrusaitis, Jurgis. 

1934. Art sum^rien, art roman. Paris. 
Barber, C. T. 

1956. Bitumen — 7,000 years of man's liistory. Iraq Petroleum, vol. 6, No. 1, 
pp. 17-21. 
Basmachi, Faraj. 

1950. Sculptured stone vases in the Iraq Museum. Sumer, vol. 6, No. 2, 

pp. 165-176. 
Berriman, a. E. 

1955. A new approach to the study of ancient metrology. Rev. Assyriol., 
vol. 49, No. 4, pp. 193-201. 
BoHTz, Carl Helmut. 

1941. In den Ruinen von Warka. Leipzig. 
Bowlin, C. Angela, and Farwell, Beatrice. 

1950. Small sculptures in bronze. New York. 
Braidwood, R. J. 

1952. The Near East and the foundations for civilization. Eugene, Oreg. 
1958. Near Eastern pi-ehistory. Science, vol. 127, No. 3312, pp. 1419-1420. 



670 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Bbeasted, James Henry. 

1916. Ancient times. Boston. 
Brill-Bezold. 

1918. Sternglaube und Sterndeutung, Die Geschichte und das Wesen der 
Astrologie. Leipzig. 
Buck, Percy C. 

1929. The Oxford history of music. Introductory volume. Oxford. 

BURINQH, p. 

1957. Living conditions in the lower Mesopotamian plain in ancient times. 

Sumer, vol. 13, No. 1-2, pp. 30-57. 
Caeleton, Patrick. 

1939. Buried empires. London. 
Chiera, Edward. 

1938. They wrote on clay. Chicago. 
Childe, V. Gordon. 

1951. The first waggons and carts, from the Tigris to the Severn. Pro- 

ceedings of the Prehistoric Society. London. 

1952. New light on the most ancient East. London. 

1955. Rotary motion. A history of technology. Vol. 1, p. 203. Oxford. 

1958. The prehistory of European society. London. 
Christian, Viktor. 

1940. Altertumskunde des Zweistromlandes. Vol. 2. Leipzig. 
Coghlan, H. H. 

1942. Some fresh aspects of the prehistoric metallurgy of copper. Anti- 
quarians Journ., vol. 22, pp. 22-38. 
Cobbiau, Simone. 

1936. Sumerian dress lengths as chronological data. Iraq, vol. 3, pt. 1, 

pp. 97-100. 
Crawford, Waughn Emerson. 

1954. Sumerian economic texts. New Haven. 
Cros, Gaston du. 

1940. Nouvelles fouilles de Tello. Paris. 

DANTHINE, HELi:NE. 

1937. Le palmier-dattier et les arbres sacres dans I'iconographie de I'Asie 

occidentale ancienne. Paris. 
Deimel, Anton, S. J. 

1927-37. Sumerisches Lexicon. Rome. 

1931. Sumerische Tempelwirtschaft. Rome. 
Delougaz, Pinhas. 

1940. The Temple Oval at Khafajah. Chicago. 

1942. (With S. Lloyd.) Presargonid temples in the Diyala region. Chicago. 
Directorate of Antiquities, Iraq. 

1942. A guide to the Iraq museum collections. Baghdad. 
DowsoN, V. H. W. 

1921-23. Dates and date cultivation in Iraq. Cambridge. 
Ebeling, Erich. 

1955. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Beschworungsserie Namburi. Rev. Assy- 

riol. Paris, vol. 49, No. 1, p. 33. 
Falkenstein, Adam. 

1954. La cite-temple sumerienne. Cahiers d'Histoire Mondiale, vol. 1, pp. 
784-814. 

FiGULLE, H. H. 

1953. Accounts concerning allocations of provisions for offerings in the 

Ningal temple at Ur. Iraq, vol. 15, pp. 88-122. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 671 

Fish, TnoMAS. 

1938. The Sumerian city Nippur. Iraq, vol. 5, pt. 2, pp. 157-179. 
1943. Food of the gods in ancient Sumer. Manchester. 

1954. One aspect of the Sumerian character. Sumer, vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 113- 

115. 
FoBBES, Robert James. 

1955. Studies in ancient technology. Leiden. 
Frankfort, Henry. 

1954. Art and architecture of the ancient orient. Harmondsworth. 
Gadd, Cyril John. 

1929. History and monuments of Ur. London. 
1948. The fan of Ba-ba. Iraq, vol. 10, pt. 2, pp. 93-100. 

1956. Teachers and students of the oldest schools. London. 
Galpin, Francis William. 

1937. The music of the Sumerians. Cambridge. 
Genouillac, H. de. 

1909. Tablettes sumeriennes archaiques. Paris. 

1934-36. Fouilles de Telloh. Paris 
Gettens, Rutherford T., and Usilton, Bertha M. 

1955. Abstracts of technical studies in art and archaeology. Freer Gallery 

of Art Occ. Pap., vol. 2, No. 2. 
GoossENS, Godefboy. 

1948. L'art de I'Asie anterieure dans I'antiquit^ ; les epoques. Bruxelles. 
Gordon, Cyrus H. 

1939. Western Asiatic seals in the Walters Art Gallery. Iraq, vol. 6, 

pt. 1, pp. 3-34. 
Graham, A. Kenneth. 

1929. Scientific notes on the finds of Ur. Univ. Pennsylvania Mus. Journ., 

vol. 20, Nos. 3, 4, pp. 246-257. 
Haines, Richard C. 

1956. Where a goddess of love and war was worshipped 4,000 years ago. 

Illustr. London News, Aug. 18, pp. 266-269. 
Harden, D. B. 

1934. A typological examination of Sumerian pottery from Janidat Nasr 
and Kish. Iraq, vol. 1, pt. 1, pp. 31-44. 
Hartman, Louis. 

1950. On beer in Mesopotamia. Suppl. to Journ. Amer. Orient, Soc. 
Heinbich, Ernst. 

1934. Schilf und Lehm ; ein Beitrag zur Baugeschichte der Sumerer. Berlin. 
1936. Kleinfunde aus den Archischen Tempelschichten in Uruk. Leipzig. 
1950. Die Stellung der Uruktempel in der Baugeschichte. Zeitschr. fur 
Assyriol. N.F. 15, p. 1. 

1957. Bauwerke in der altsumerischen Bildkunst. Wiesbaden. 
Helbaek, Hans. 

1959. Domestication of food plants in the Old World. Science, vol. 130, 
No. 3372, pp. 365-72. 
Heuzey, Leon. 

1887. Une etoffe chald^enne. Rev. Arch^ol., May-June. 

1888. L'architecture chaldeenue. Paris. 
1891. Les origines orientales de l'art. Paris. 

1900. Une villa royal chald^enne, vers I'an 4000 avant notre ere. Paris 
1902. Catalogue des antiquites chaldeennes, Louvre, Paris. 



672 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

HiLPKECHT, H. V. 

1906. Mathematical, metrological and chronological tablets from the temple 
library of Nippur. Philadelphia. 
Hbozny. B. 

1910. Das Getreide in Alten Babylonien. Wien, 
Hutchinson, R. W. 

1934. Two Mesopotamian daggers and their relatives. Iraq, vol. 1, pt. 2, 
pp. 163-170. 
Jacobsen, Thorkild, and Adams, Robert M. 

1958. Salt and silt in ancient Mesopotamian agriculture. Science, vol. 128, 
No. 3334, pp. 1251-58 
Jean, Charles Francois. 

1923. Sumer et Akkad. Contribution k I'histoire de la civilisation. Paris. 
J'oiNT Expedition of the British Museum and of the Museum of the 
University of Pennsylvania to Mesopotamia. 

1927-57. Ur excavations. London-Philadelphia. 
Jones, R. A. 

1941. The origin of the Voussoir arch. Civil Eng. April, p. 259. 
Jordan, Julius. 

1928. Uruk-Warka. Leipzig. 
King, Leonard William. 

1910. A history of Sumer and Akkad. London. 
Kramer, Samuel N. 

1957. From the tablets of Sumer. Indian Hills. 

1958. History begins at Sumer. London. 

1959. A Sumerian document with microscopic cuneiform. Expedition, vol. 

1, No. 3, pp. 2-3. Philadelphia. 
Kraus, F. R. 

1954. Wandel und Kontinuitat der Sumerisch-babylonischen Kultur. 
Leyden. 
KuQLER, Franz Xaver. 

1907-24. Sternkunde und Sterndienst in Babel. Miinster. 
Labat, Rene. 

1957. La science antique et m^diSvale. Paris. 
Lambert, Maurice. 

1950. La cite sainte d'Our. Sumer, vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 149-164. 
1952-59. La periode Pr^sargonique. Sumer, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 57-77 ; No. 2, 
pp. 198-216 ; vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 19&-213 ; vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 150-190. 
Langdon, Stephen H. 

1911. Tablets from the archives of Drehem-origins of the Sumerian calendar. 
1919. Sumerian liturgies and psalms. 

Larsen, H. 

1948. Die Sumerer. Berlin. 
Leemans, W. F. 

1950. The old Babylonian merchant. Leyden. 
Legrain, Leon. 

1925. The builder's ;irt at Ur. Univ. Pennsylvania Mus. Journ., vol. 16, No. 

4, pp. 217-306. 
1927. Discovery of the royal tombs at Ur of the Chaldees. Univ. Penn- 
sylvania Mus. Journ., vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 442^44. 
1929a. Gem cutters in ancient Ur. Univ. Pennsylvania Mus. Journ. vol. 

20, Nos. 4-6, pp. 258-306. 
1929b. The boudoir of Queen Shubad. Univ. Pennsylvania Mus. Journ., 
vol. 20, Nos. 3-4, pp. 219-238. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 673 

Levey, Mabtin. 

1959. Chemistry and chemical technology in ancient Mesopotamia. Am- 
sterdam. 
Lewy, Hildegard. 

1949. Origin and development of the sexagesimal system of numeration. 
Journ. Amer. Orient. Soc, vol. 69, No. 1, p. 1. 
Lloyd, Seton. 

1930. Mesopotamia : excavations on Sumerian sites. London. 

1943. Twin rivers. London. 

1948a. Uruk pottery. Sumer, vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 39-51. Baghdad. 

1948b. The oldest city of Sumeria ; establishing the origins of Eridu. 
Illustr. London News, Ser. 11, pp. 303-305. 
Mackay, E. J. Henry. 

1925-29. Report on the "A" cemetery at Kish, Mesopotamia. Chicago. 
Mallowan, M. E. L. 

1930. New light on ancient Ur. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 57, No. 1, pp. 94-120. 

1956. Twenty-five years of Mesopotamian discovery. London. 
Mallowan, M. E. L., and Cruikshank, Rose J. 

1935. Prehistoric Assyria ; the excavations at Tell Arpachiyah. London. 
Maryon, Herbert. 

1949. Metal working in the ancient world. Amer. Journ. Archaeol., vol. 53, 
pp. 93-125. 
Maxwell-Hyslop, Rachel. 

1949. Western Asiatic shaft-hole axes. Iraq, vol. 11, pt. 1, pp. 90-129. 
McCowN, Donald E. 

1951. Nippur : the holy city. Univ. Pennsylvania Mus. Bull., vol. 16, No. 2, 

pp. 5-19. 

1952. Excavations at Nippur, the 4000 year old city of Sumeria and Babylo- 

nia. Illustr. London News, vol. 220, No. 5906, June 28, pp. 1084-87. 
MooRTGAT, Anton. 

1932. Die Bildende Kunst des Alten Orients und die Bergvolker. Berlin. 

1945. Die Entstehung der sumerischen Hochkultur. Der Alte Orient, vol. 43. 

Leipzig. 
1949. Tammuz. Berlin. 
Neugebaueb, O. 

1951. The exact sciences in antiquity. Copenhagen. 

NOTGEMEINSCHAFT DEB DEUTSCHEN WiSSENSCHAFT. 

1934. Vorlaufiger Bericht iiber die in Uruk unternommenen Ausgrabungen. 

Berlin. 
Oppenheim, a. Leo. 

1941. The golden garments of the gods. Journ. Near East. Stud., vol. 8, 
No. 3, p. 172. 

1954. The seafaring merchants of Ur. Journ. Amer. Orient. Soc, vol. 74, 

No. 1, pp. 6-17. 
Pallis, Svend Aage. 

1956. Antiquity of Iraq. Copenhagen. 
Parrot, Andrei. 

1946. Arch^ologie m^sopotamienne. Paris. 
1948. Tello. Paris. 

1953. Le tour de Babel. Paris. 

1955. Discovering buried worlds. New York. 
Partington, J. R. 

1935. Origins and development of applied chemistry. London-New York. 



674 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Perkins, Ann Louise. 

1949. The comparative archaeology of early Mesopotamia, Chicago. 
PiRENNE, Jacques. 

1944. La civilisatioa sumerienne. Lausanne. 
PoHL, Alfred, S. J. 

1937. Rechts- und Venvaltungsurkunden der III Dynastie. Leipzig. 
PoLiN, Claire C. J. 

1954. Gifts of Jubal. Musical instruments from the ancient east. Phila- 
delphia. 
I'ORADA, Edith. 

1947. Mesopotamian art in cylinder seals of the Pierpont Morgan Library. 

New York. 
Pritchaed, James B. 

1954. The ancient Near East in pictures relating to the Old Testament. 
Princeton. 
Rousseau, Pierre. 

1956. Histoire des techniques. Paris. 
Roux, Georges. 

1956-60. The story of ancient Iraq. Iraq Petroleum, vols. 6-8. London. 
Rutten, Marguerite. 

1950. Arts et styles du Moyen-Orient ancien. Paris. 
Safar, Fuad. 

1950. Eridu. Sumer, vol. 0, pp. 27-38. 
Salonen, Armas. 

1942. Nautica Babylouiaca. Studia Orientalia, vol. 11, No. 1. Helsinki. 
Sarzec, E. de. 

1884-1912. Ddcouvertes en Chaldee. Paris. 
Sayce, Archibald Henry. 

1900. Babylonians and Assyrians. London. 

1907. The archaeology of the cuneiform inscriptions. London. 

SCHAEFFER, ClAUDE F. A. 

1948. Stratigraphie compai-^e et chronologie de I'Asie occidentale, III et II 

millenaires. London. 
ScHAFER, PIeinrich, uud Andrae, Waiter. 

1925. Die kunst des alten Orients. Berlin. 
Schmokel, Hartmut. 

1955a. Ur, Assur und Babylon. Ziirich. 

1955b. Das Land Sumer. Die Wiederentdeckung der ersten Hochkultur der 
Menschheit. Stuttgart. 
Schneider, Anna. 

1920. Die Sumerische Tempelstadt. Essen. 
Singer, Ch, T. et al. 

1954. A history of technology, vol. I. Oxford Univ. Press. 
SODEN, "W. Fr. von. 

1936. Leistung und Grenzen sumerischer und babylonischer "Wissenschaft. 
Welt als Geschichte. 
Steele, Francis R. 

1948. The code of Lipit-Ishtar. Philadelphia. 
Thompson, R. Campbell. 

1936. A dictionary of Assyrian chemistry and geology. Oxford. 
Thureau-Dangin, Francois. 

1898. Recherches sur I'origine de I'^criture cun^iforme. Paris. 

1938. Textes math^matiques babyloniens. Leyden. 



SUMERIAN TECHNOLOGY — BOBULA 675 

Unger, E. 

1926. Sumerische und akkadische Kunst. Breslau. 
Van Bueen, Douglas E. 

1939. The fauna of ancient Mesopotamia. Aunal. Orient., vol. 18, pp. 1-113. 
Rome. 

1948. Fish offerings in ancient Mesopotamia. Iraq, vol 10, pt. 2, pp. 101-121. 
1952. The building of a temple-tower. Rev. Assyriol., vol. 46, No. 2, 

pp. 65-74. 
ViBOLLEAUD, CHARLES, and Pelagaud, Feknand. 

1909. L'astrologie chaldeenne. Paris. 

1913-31. La musique Assyro-Babylonienne. In Encyl. Musique. Paris. 

VOGEL, KUBT. 

1950. Mathematik in Keilschrift. Sumerer kennten den Lehrsatz des 
Pythagoras. Neue Zeit., vol. 8, No. 6, p. 13. 
Wagener, M. 

1950. Die Musikinstrumente des Alten Orients. Miinster. 
Ward, Willlam H. 

1910. The seal cylinders of western Asia. AVashington, D.C. 
Weidner, E. 

1915. Handbuch der Babylonischen Astronomie. Leipzig. 
Wilkinson, Charles K. 

1949. The art of the ancient Near East. Metropolitan Mus. Bull., vol. 7, 

No. 7, pp. 186-189. 
WiTzEL, Matjeus, O. F. M. 

1932. Texte zum Studium Sumerischer Tempel and Kultzentren. Annalecta 
Orientalia, vol. 4, Rome. 
WooLLEY, Sir Leonard C. 

1928. The Sumerians. Oxford. 

1935. The development of Sumerian art. London. 

1946. Ur : The first phases. London. 

1950. Ur of the Chaldees. London. 
ZeSvos, Christian. 

1935. L'art de la M^sopotamie de la fin du 4e mill^uaire au XVe sifecle avant 
notre ere. Elam, Sumer, Akkad. Paris. 



Brandywine: An Early Flour-Milling Center 



By Peter C. Welsh 

Associate Curator, Department of Civil History 

United States National Museum 
Smithsonian Institution 

[With 7 plates] 

"Few people are at any considerable distance from gristmills," 
wrote St. John de Crevecoeur of late ISth-century America. Fast- 
flowing streams, whirring waterwheels, and massive millstones, once 
a common sight, are now all but forgotten. Today an occasional grist- 
mill survives, giving mute testimony to Crevecoeur's observations and 
to the unimposing beginnings of a still important industry whose 
foundations were laid in the Delaware Valley along such creeks as the 
Wissahickon, Neshaminy, Pennypack, Crosswicks, Eancocas, Pen- 
sauken, Chester, and Brandywine. In fact after 1700, on most 
streams mills of every size and shape, supplied with an abimdance of 
w^ieat from the rich farmlands of the Middle Atlantic region, met 
domestic needs as well as the demands of hungry markets in Europe 
and the West Indies. Philadelphia, New York, and later Baltimore 
thrived as flour ports and trade-conscious merchants eagerly pur- 
chased the product of nearby mills, hoping either to ship the barreled 
staple worldwide in their quest for the riches and goods of foreign 
lands, or to speculate on the domestic grain market which, in the 
I750's, became lucrative for the first time (1) .^ 

Some mills ground solely for local needs and were called custom 
mills ; others, larger and better equipped, ground specifically for the 
export trade and were known as merchant mills. The former were 
usually isolated and on the lesser creeks ; the latter were often found 
in clusters, situated on the larger streams, where waterpower was 
ample and where transportation — by road or water— linked the mill 
to the wheatfields and the market. Occasionally, a combination of 
geography, waterpower, grain supply, and entrepreneurial skill pro- 
duced milling centers of unusual capacity which for a time dominated 
the economic life of their locality. The Brandywine Mills, on the 



> Numbers In parentheses refer to notes at end of text. 

677 



678 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

tidewater of the Brandy wine Creek near Wilmington, Del., were such 
a center (2). 

Here, in almost bucolic surroundings, successive generations of 
Quaker millers reaped handsome profits from the tons of flour 
that they shipped to the corners of the world. Here, too, the genius 
of Oliver Evans was put to work. By the I780's his inventions — 
elevators, conveyors, descenders, and the hopper-boy — were clanking 
away in the Brandywine Mills, helping to improve quality, increase 
yield, and reduce the physical burden of milling (3). Evans's ma- 
chines, at first dubbed "rattletraps," literally took the sack from the 
miller's back and, in so doing, revolutionized the flour-milling in- 
dustry. Finally, as Thomas Twining pointed out in 1796: "Here 
America already exhibited a spot which might be compared with any 
similar scene in England" (4). 

But what was so difi'erent about these mills, and why tell their 
story? There is reason enough if one reflects on a long- forgotten 
but, to the historian, a challenging appraisal; namely, that a study 
of the Brandywine Mills "would afford a complete picture of the 
rise of the milling interest in the United States" (5). A bit strong, 
perhaps, yet the Brandywine's story was retold with each westward 
move of the population. Wilmington and her mills became a pro- 
totype of later flour-milling centers. 

One thing is certain, the history of Wilmington's flour mills is the 
story of a successful business venture. In Wilmington there were 
mill owners whose records— diaries, journals, and letters — help to 
clarify the methods of one early American industry ; but, more than 
a chronology of a successful enterprise, the mills on the tidewater of 
the Brandywine were also a prime force in the industrialization of 
a town. Here, in the 18th century, a group of Quaker businessmen, 
functioning in a favorable political, economic, and geograpliic en- 
vironment, made Wilmington a leading milling center. Their 
success encouraged imitation (6). 

Before the end of the 18th century local businessmen had invested 
in paper, cotton, calico printing, snuff, and slitting mills located on 
the Brandywine near the town; similarly, in New Castle County, 
particularly on Red and "V^Hiite Clay and Mill Creeks, waterpower 
turned the wheels of a variety of infant industries (Y). Early in 
the 19th century the Du Fonts had added extensive gunpowder mills, 
a woolen mill, and a tannery to the Brandywine's diverse industrial 
community; to many it seemed Wilmington was becoming "the 
Manchester of America''' (8). 

A stroke of geographic luck saved Wilmington from being an 
agricultural village. Located on the tidewater, and easily acces- 
sible to navigation, her mills supplied the staple that stimulated and 



BRANDYWINE — WELSH 679 

maintained her merchants just as the farms and mills of the region 
collectively motivated the trading interests of Philadelphia. The 
flour mills of Wilmington, generally referred to as the "Brandywine 
Mills," shared coequally with facility of transportation in making 
this Delaware town such an important adjunct of the flour trade 
that dm'ing the last quarter of the 18th century this community was 
"famous all over America for its Merchant Mills" (9) . 

The Brandywine Mills during the 18th century had few rivals, 
but in the following century real competition began for preeminence 
in the milling industry. The development of other merchant mills 
and new marketing centers considerably modified the repute of the 
flour millers at Brandywine. As the 18th centuiy ended, the mills 
of the Ellicotts, at EUicott City west of Baltimore, and the Gallego 
and Haxall mills, at the falls of the James River, were just com- 
mencing extensive activities. These mills, plus those at Rochester 
and Oswego in western New York State, expanded their operations 
as the Piedmont and back country areas became more heavily popu- 
lated. When the wheat belt extended farther west. New York, 
Baltimore, and Richmond replaced Philadelphia as the chief mar- 
keting center and flour port in the United States ; and simultaneously, 
canalization made the natural transportation facilities of the Brandy- 
wine less important than they were originally (10) . 

But how did it all begin ? 

In 1742 Oliver Canby, a Bucks County Quaker, moved to Wilming- 
ton seeking the opportunities which seemed abundant in a new place 
where Friendly ways were practiced and where members of the local 
meeting dominated the afiairs of the town. Canby, a millwright by 
trade, realized the Brandywine's potential as a millstream and quickly 
began a milling business. In less than 15 years, Canby had gained 
control of important water rights and had built the first mill of size 
or consequence near the head of navigation on Brandywine Creek. 
Furthermore, during this period he had married the heiress of the 
fibwn — Elizabeth Shipley. Canby's initial work was followed by that 
of Thomas Shipley, who, in concert with several others, managed 
to have a mile-long millrace dug and the four mills completed on 
the south bank of the creek at the tidewater. Now, for the first time, 
efficient use could be made of the waterpower so readily available 
and of the water highway which led straightway to the markets of 
the world (11). 

But what of the little hillside village between the Christina and 
the Brandj^wine? In 1736 the itinerant Quaker Thomas Chalkley 
had predicted it would be "a flourishing Place, if the Inhabitants 
take Care to live in the Fear of God," always preferring heavenly 
reward to the material "Things of this World." Notwithstanding 



680 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

Clialkley's prophetic admonition, Friendly ways led members of the 
local meeting to wealth, prestige, and influence, giving the town, if 
slowly, a thriving manufacturing and mercantile interest (12). 

In 1744, 2 years after Oliver Canby had begun his milling business, 
Dr. Alexander Hamilton described Wilmington as having nearly "the 
largeness of Amiapolis" but built more compactly with most of the 
houses of brick (13). Six years later the town exhibited some evi- 
dence of commercial life, although James Birket found local mer- 
chants in "such low Circumstances" that they could not "make any 
great figure" from mercantile pursuits (14). By 1754, the year 
Canby died, Lewis Evans described Wilmington as "a town of no 
small Trade" (15), but Governor Thomas Pownall thought it still 
lacked sufficient population or "trade enough ... to compleat it to 
its plan" ( 16) . The place impressed Andrew Burnaby in 1760 merely 
"as a pretty village" (17). In fact, not imtil the 1770's did Wilming- 
ton begin to have "all the appearance of one of the English country 
towns" (18), nor until this decade, according to Silas Deane, did the 
Brandy wine Mills produce the quantity of flour necessary to "render it 
a large place" (19). 

It was in the I770's that mills similar to those promoted by Shipley 
were built on the north side of the stream directly opposite the 
older ones. These improvements were accomplished by the resource- 
fulness of Joseph Tatnall, Delaware's first great industrialist who, 
incidentally, was related to both the Shipleys and the Canbys. With 
the completion of the new mills a milling center was born and the 
future was bright. The next 20 years marked the consolidation of 
the early industrial and commercial development of Wihnington, 
and by the 1790's the Brandy wine Mills were supplymg a considerable 
amount of flour for the export trade. An "Infant place" had become 
the heart of one of the busiest centers of manufactures in the United 
States. In addition, a milling oligarchy had been firmly established, 
one that persisted until the 1920's (20). 

The Brandywine Mills, tightly clustered about the tidal basin of 
the stream, increased in number from 8 to 14 between 1770 and 1820, 
During this period Oliver Evans introduced the idea of automation 
to flour-mill machinery; and subsequently the mills at Brandywine 
were mechanized, althougli work was still provided for scores of indi- 
viduals including millers, millwrights, coopers, blacksmiths, and 
shallopmen (21). 

The mills brought their owners a handsome profit. By 1800, 300,000 
to 500,000 bushels of wheat were ground annually. The Quaker 
millers, in good years, reaped a return of a half-million dollars from 
their business, and local merchants shipped Brandywine flour world- 
wide. As a result of the flour trade, these merchants lined their 
shelves with the goods of foreign lands, and local residents enjoyed the 



BRANDYWINE — WELSH 681 

taste of chocolate, coffee, and good wine. The flour-milling industry, 
in every sense, was a large-scale enterprise, which preceded Du Font's 
gunpowder manufactory as the industrial giant on Brandywine 
Creek (22). 

The value of mills and mill property varied according to location, 
and in 1801 a mill upstream rented for much less than one on the 
navigable part of the Brandywine. Compared to a merchant mill 
at tidewater, a country mill in the interior was not worth much. 
Property near Wilmington cost $22 to $150 per acre, and in the early 
1800's desirable millseats sold for close to the latter figure. The cost 
of land plus that of building a mill entailed a sizable expenditure. 
It was reported to E. I. du Pont in 1802 that the newest and finest 
of the Brandywine flour mills had cost "nearly 7000 dollars." This 
estimate was for a building of four stories, measuring "98 feet long 
by 48 wide and 40 feet high," and having "more stone under ground 
than in the walls" (23). 

Not only were Wilmington's mills solidly built, but their owners 
were solid citizens as well. They championed abolition, care of the 
poor, penal reform, and internal improvements (roads, canals, and 
bridges) (24). Above all, during the Revolution they were patriots. 

Family legend maintains that Joseph Tatnall told George Washing- 
ton that "I camiot fight for thee, but I can and will feed thee." Good 
to his word, his mill ledger for the period reflects large amounts of 
flour consigned to Robert Morris, financier of the Revolution. Even 
Tatnall's home was used by George Washington, serving as his head- 
quarters on the eve of the Battle of the Brandywine (25). 

The flour-producing potential of the Wilmington area was of 
logistical import to both the British and American armies during 
the war. In the spring of 1776 a Quaker miller at Brandywine made 
a ledger entry that reflected not only the tenor of the times but also 
portended a change in the ordinary routine of the flour-milling 
business. Interspaced between the regular business notations for 
May 8 and 9, 1776, was recorded an account of "the Roe Buck, & 
Liverpoole Men of Warr & the 13 pensylvania Gunduloes," and their 
"Ingagement in the Delaware River Opposite Wilmington" (26). 

It was not long after that General Washington was instructing 
his commanders to dismantle mills "which may be liable to fall into 
. . . [enemy] hands." And on October 31, 1777, he directed Gen. 
James Potter "to remove the running Stones from the Mills in . . . 
Chester and Wilmington." Five days after receiving the orders to 
remove the millstones, Potter wrote: "I'm a sorey to Inform your 
excelancey that the the Officer I send to the Brandywine Mills has not 
obay'd my orders. Instead of Taking the stons away he has taken the 
Spinnels, Rines and Ironnale heads, ... I am Informed that Taking 
these Artecals answers the same end as Removeing the stons. . . ." 



682 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

Washington's answer to Potter's misconception was twofold; first, 
to court-martial the officer who had failed to remove the stones, and 
second, to remove the millstones at once! Finally, on November 8, 
the stones were taken from the mills at Brandywine, and business 
there was temporarily suspended. By December 29, General Small- 
wood and his Continentals had reoccupied Wilmington and had 
received permission from Washington to put "one of the Mills to 
work" grinding "Flour and Horse Feed." Smallwood was reminded, 
however, to grind nothing in excess of "what you and the inhabitants 
may want." After the British evacuated Philadelphia in June 1778, 
restrictions were eased and the mills at Brandywine once again began 
normal operations (27). 

After the war recovery w^as swift, and a succession of visitors, 
foreign and domestic, wrote of their impressions of Wilmington. 
The Comte de Segur found it "a place of considerable cormnercial 
activity" in 1782 (28), and, by 1785, Elkanah Watson made a point to 
stop in the town "to examine the most extensive flouring mills on 
the continent" (29). In the same year a yomig London merchant, 
Eobert Hunter, conveyed the impression of a healthy economy when 
he related that at Wilmington the flour mills "were never known to 
cease working, summer or winter" (30), to which Dr. James Tilton 
added that in really busy times the mills ground "perpetually day 
and night" (31). Francis Asbury thought Wilmingtonians were 
overly engrossed in politics in 1791 ; even so, little interfered with the 
business of milling, not even politics, although most of the Brandy- 
wine millers, unlike their Philadelphia brethren, were inclined to be 
Democrats (32). Few visitors were more succinct or more typically 
French than Moreau de St. Meiy who, in 1794, looked at both 
Wilmington and her mills and said "magnificent" (33) . 

The 18th century was fast coming to a close when Isaac Weld 
visited the merchant mills at Brandywine. Unimpressed by the town, 
he was delighted by the mills where "no manual labour is required 
from the moment the wheat is taken to the mill till it is converted into 
flour, and ready to be packed" (34). Soon after Weld, the Duke de 
la Rochefoucault Liancourt also marveled at Oliver Evans's ingenuity 
as he toured the Brandywine Mills. In addition to these wonderful 
machines, Liancourt observed that the mills were "not employed 
for the public" but only for the "private service" of the owners. The 
mills at Wilmington were called a "flour manufactory" and were 
not unlike those at London Bridge and Paris; although Liancourt 
noted that the French mills were driven by a steam engine (35). 

Robert Proud's "History of Pennsylvania" cited the flour manu- 
factories on the Brandywine and Wissahickon Creeks as the best in 
America and "perhaps . . . not inferior in quality to any in the 



BRANDYWINE — WELSH 683 

world." The Brandywine Mills were especially well situated since 
shipping could come "up to the veiy doors of divers of them" (36). 
Soon after Proud's "History" appeared in 1798, the geography com- 
piled by the German scholar Christopher Ebeling was published 
in Hamburg; and Europeans read about "the only town of any 
importance" in Delaware, and about the Brandywine Mills where 
"90,000 bushels of wheat" could be reduced "to nothing but fine 
flour" (37). Thus, both at home and abroad, the flour mills on 
Brandywine Creek were attaining some renown as a new century 
began. 

Between 1772 and 1820 the milling center at Brandywine reached 
its zenith ; in an area renowned for the most notable concentration of 
mill industries in America, Wilmington's Quaker millers had long 
been the dominant force in an industrial valley that was "making 
rapid strides toward perfection" (38). Their leadership had been 
continuous almost from the inception of their mills. But already 
a few miles upstream, the gunpowder mills of E. I. du Pont were 
grinding, under massive stones, the i^roduct which in the 19th 
century would replace superfine flour as the product synonymous 
with the name of the creek. At the end of the 18th century, Brandy- 
wine flour was a watchword in America. By the end of the 19th it 
would be gunpowder that focused the attention of a nation on 
the area. 

The maritime-commercial activity of Wilmington waned after 1810 
and the reputation of the flour mills on the Brandywine diminished 
correspondingly as the hub of the flour merchants' world shifted 
from Philadelphia to New York and the West. The westward move- 
ment of both the population and the wheat belt, improved methods 
of transportation, and a new technology presaged by the use of the 
steam engine were all causes of this displacement; and each step 
away from a dependence on the coastal and tidewater settlements 
was invariably followed by the rise of a new flour-milling center. 
This transition was a slow process, as was the decline of the local 
flour mills that accompanied it (39) . 

The westward movement was well begun by 1840 and the subsequent 
history of the Brandywine flour mills reflects the decline of the 
business which had been Delaware's first important industry as well 
as one of America's most celebrated collection of mills. In 1880 the 
mills on the south side of the creek stopped grinding; by 1926 the 
heirs of Canby, Shipley, and Tatnall sold the property on the 
opposite shore. After 184 years the Quaker milling oligarchy of 
Wilmington was no more. Its greatest monument is the flour-milling 
industry of modern America which can look directly to the Brandy- 
wine for its antecedents. 



684 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 

NOTES 

1. Henri L. Bourdiu, Ralph H. Gabriel, and Stanley T. Williams, eds., 
St. Jean de Crevecoeur, Sketches of eighteenth century America, p. 145, New 
Haven, 1925. Carl Bridenbaugh, The colonial craftsman, pp. 59-60, New York, 
1950. Charles B. Kuhlmann, The development of the flour-milling industry in the 
United States, passim, Boston, 1929. 

2. See articles by author in Delaware History, vol. 7, March 1956, pp. 17-36, 
and September 1957, pp. 319-336. 

3. Winslow C. Watson, ed.. Men and times of the revolution ; or Memoirs of 
Elkanah Watson . . . from the year 1772-1842, 2d ed., p. 227, New York, 1856. 

4. Travels in America 100 years ago, pp. 69-70, New York, 1894. 

5. J. Thomas Scharf, et al.. History of Delaware, 1609-1888, vol. 2, p. 786, 
Philadelphia, 1888. 

6. By 1816 "the trade, industry, and importance of the State of Delaware" 
were dependent upon the prosperity of the Brandywine Mills. See miscel- 
laneous petitions, January 26, 1816, legislative papers, Delaware State Archives, 
Dover, Del. 

7. From 1785 to 1800 the Delaware Gazette, Wilmington, is a treasury of 
advertisements reflecting milling activity in New Castle County and partic- 
ularly along the Brandywine Creek. See, in addition, Scharf, History of 
Delaware, vol. 2, pp. 880-897, 914-948. 

8. United States Gazette, December 18, 1823. 

9. "Extracts from the letter-books of Lieutenant Enos Reeves," Pennsylvania 
Magazine of History and Biography, vol. 21, p. 239, 1897. 

10. See Kuhlmann (note 1), pp. 28-29, 38. Joseph Scott, A geographical 
description of the States of Maryland and Delaware, pp. 80-82, 90-91, 107-71, 
Philadelphia, 1807, provides an interesting comparison of the Brandywine and 
EUicott Mills. Arthur G. Peterson, Flour and grist milling in Virginia: a 
brief history, Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, vol. 43, pp. 97-108, 
1935, treats the James River mills. 

11. See Bucks County Historical Society papers, vol. 5, pp. 527-528, 1926 ; 
Benjamin Ferris, A history of the original settlements on the Delaware . . . 
and a history of Wilmington pp. 302-303, Wilmington, 1846; Pennsylvania 
Gazette, Philadelphia, December 2, 1762 ; and Agreement and survey of lands, 
August 9, 1760, Tatnall Papers, MS., Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington, 
Del. 

12. A journal ... of the life, travels, and Christian experiences of . . . 
Thomas Chalkley, p. 290, London, 1751. 

13. Carl Bridenbaugh, ed.. Gentleman's progress : the itinerarium of Dr. 
Alexander Hamilton, 1744, p. 15, Chapel Hill, 1948. 

14. Some cursory remarks made by James Birket in his voyage to North 
America, 1750-1751, p. 54, New Haven, 1916. Birket visited Wilmington in 
December 1750. 

15. Laurence Henry Gipson, Lewis Evans, p. 98, Philadelphia, 1939. 

16. Description of the streets and the main roads about Philadelphia, 1754, 
Pennsylvania Magazine, vol. 18, p. 217, 1894. 

17. Travels through the middle settlements in North America in the years 
1759 and 1760, reprinted from 3d ed., 1798, p. 88, New York, 1904. 

18. Philip Padelford, ed.. Colonial panorama, 1775 ; Dr. Robert Honyman's 
journal for March and April, p. 11, San Marino, 1939. 

19. The Deane papers, Collections of the New York Historical Society . . . 
vol. 1, p. 56, 1886. In Wilmington Deane was told that one vessel alone 
carried 30,000 barrels of flour a year to Philadelphia. 



BRANDYWINE — ^WELSH 685 

20. John A. Miinroe, Federalist Delaware, 1775-1815, p. 28, New Brunswick, 
1954; Henry Seidel Canby, Family history, Cambridge, 1945, and The Brandy- 
wine, New York, 1941 ; and William Guthrie, A new system of modern 
geography ; or A geographical, historical, and commercial grammar ; and Present 
state of the several nations of the world, vol. 2, p. 459, Philadelphia, 1795. 
Guthrie enumerates the mill industries in New Castle County near Wilmington. 
Besides a cotton mill of "considerable forwardness (on the Brandywine)" and 
a bolting cloth manufactory, there were "several fulling-mills, two snuff-mills, 
one slitting-mill, four paper-mills, and sisty mills for grinding grain, all of 
which are turned by water." In 1791, four years prior to Guthrie's enumer- 
ation, in addition to the flour mills, there were on the Brandywine, in the 
vicinity of Wilmington, six sawmills, a paper mill, a slitting mill, a barley 
mill, and a snuff mill, giving employment to over 100 persons and indirectly 
supporting scores of coopers, blacksmiths, weavers, cotton card makers, car- 
penters, and millwrights. By 1815 the flour mills were at their zenith, and 
an infant textile industry was assuming some importance ; within 5 miles 
of the town, the Brandywine turned at least 36 water wheels and had "fall 
sufiicient remaining for nearly an equal number." Near Wilmington, "Within 
a Semicircle of 20 Miles," there were said to be "14 Establishments with 
more than three Thousand Spindles, for manufacturing wool, & 27 Cotton 
Mills contlaininlg more than 25,000 Spindles," and in a petition to the Dela- 
ware legislature in January 1816, it was stated that: "The Utility and mag- 
nitude of the Mills and Works upon the Brandywine are not more celebrated 
than felt in every part of the United States. . . ." See Return of manu- 
factures, tradesmen, &c in Wilmington Delaware & its vicinity including 
Brandywine Mills . . . November 28th, 1791, Alexander Hamilton papers. 
Library of Congress, and reproduced in H. Clay Reed, ed.. Readings in Dela- 
ware history, economic development (mimeographed), p. 39, Newark, 1939; 
Wilmington, Delaware, and its vicinity, Niles' Weekly Register, vol. 9, p. 93, 
1815-16, Minutes of the proceedings of the manufacturers of Wilmington, town 
hall 11 mo. 25th 1815, William Young papers. Historical Society of Delaware; 
and Memorial of the Brandywine millers opposing the altering of mill 
dams . . . January 26, 1816, legislative papers, Delaware State Archives, 
Dover, Del. 

21. See Brandywine Millseat Company Survey, 1822, MS., Hagley Museum, 
Wilmington, Del. This survey shows the flour mills at their zenith. In 
addition, see The Delaware Statesmen, Wilmington, May 9, 1812. 

22. J. Leander Bishop, History of American manufacturers from 1008-1860, 
vol. 1, p. 145, Philadelphia, 1861-68. By 1821, these mills ground 620,000 bushels 
annually and represented a combined capital investment of $336,000. See Can- 
by, et al.. Census schedules. Census of manufacturers of 1820, New Castle 
County, Delaware, National Archives, Washington, D.C. The importance of the 
flour trade to Wilmington's millers and townspeople is reflected in many sources, 
for example : J. P. Brissot de Warville, New travels in the United States of 
America performed in 1788, pp. 188, 421-422, London, 1792; Broom, Hendrick- 
son, and Summerl, Letter book, 1792-1794, MS., Historical Society of Delaware; 
Delaware Gazette, June 27, 1789, April 10, 1790, March 4, 1796, and June 26, 
1799; Ledgers and journals of Thomas Lea and Joseph Tatnall, Historical 
Society of Delaware; and Samuel Canby diary 1779-1796, MS., Yale University 
Library, New Haven, Conn. 

23. Mirror of the times and general advertiser, Wilmington, May 21, 1806; 
Peter Bauduy to E. I. du Pont, August 20, 1802, Bessie G. du Pont, Life of 
E. I. du Pont, vol. 6, pp. 104-106 ; and for an estimate of the value of the water 



686 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 9 

right alone, see Caleb Kirk to E. I. du Pont, February 6, 1828, Hagley Museum 
MS. file. 

24. Munroe, Federalist Delaware, pp. 152, lGO-161, 173, 216 n., 217, 244, 246. 

25. See Henry Seidel Canby, Family History; and J. T. Scbarf, History of 
Delaware. For transactions of Brandywiue Millers with Robert Morris, see 
Brandywine Mills Daybook, 1775-1783, MS., Historical Society of Delaware. 

26. I hid. 

27. John C. Fitzpatrick, ed., The writings of George Washington . . . 174.5- 
1799, vol. 9, pp. 151, 474; vol. 10, pp. 11, 219, Washington, 1931-1934. Penn- 
sylvania Magazine, vol. 18, p. 482, 1894 ; vol. 19, pp. 73-74, 1895. 

28. Louis Philippe, Comte de Segur, Memoirs and recollections of Count 
S6gur, p. 323, London, 1825. 

29. Watson, ed., Memoirs of Elkauah Watson, p. 277. 

30. Louis B. Wright and Marion Tinling, eds., Quebec to Carolina in 1785- 
1786: Being the travel and observations of Robert Hunter, Jr., a young 
merchant of London, p. 176, San Marino, 1943. 

31. Dr. James Tilton, Queries, American Museum or Universal Magazine, 
vol. 5, p. 381, 1789. 

32. Francis Asbury, Journal of Rev. Francis Asbury, vol. 2, p. 136, New 
York, 1821. 

33. Kenneth and Anna Roberts, eds. and trans., Moreau de St. Mery's 
American journey, 1793-1798, p. 88, New York, 1947. 

34. Isaac Weld, Jr., Travels through the States of North America and the 
provinces of upper and lower Canada during the years 1795, 1796, 1797, 
vol. 1, p. 34, London, 1807. 

35. Duke de la Rochefoucault Liancourt, Travels through the United States 
of North America . . . 1795, 1796, and 1797, vol. 3, pp. 493-501, London, 1800. 

36. Robert Proud, The history of Pennsylvania in North America . . . written 
principally between the years 1776 and 1780, vol. 2, p. 255, Philadelphia, 
1797-1798. 

37. Christoph D. Ebeling, Erdbeschreibung und Geschichte von Amerika. 
5 vols., Hamburg, 1797-1803. The section on Delaware was translated in 
1883 and typed copies were presented to the Historical Society of Pennsyl- 
vania and the Historical Society of Delaware. Reference is to the copy in the 
Historical Society of Delaware (see pp. 93-94, 106). 

38. A directory and register for the year 1814 ... of the borough of Wil- 
mington and Brandywine, Wilmington, 1814. And in the same vein, Niles' 
Weekly Register, vol. 6, p. 277, 1814, reported Wilmington "likely to become 
one of the most important manufacturing towns in the United States." 

39. This trend is apparent in the 1830's when instead of drumming the 
advantages of manufactures, the editor of the local newspaper writes : "Our 
hopes have been fixed on the manufactories of the Brandywine, and of making 
Wilmington a manufacturing City, but this has been abortive. ..." Delaware 
Gazette, October 8. 1833. 



mithsonian Report, 1959— Welsh 



Plate 1 







^ E 



!5 -- 3 S o^ 
•t' 00 





3 -r: 

.2 c 

C aJ 
60 C 


Brandywi 
g through 
am engin( 
(Henry 
echanics, 


c 


^X 






0\ 




n of th 
ur mil 
essure 
nginee 
erican 


^r 


^ 


now 
f flo 
h-pr 
eate 
Am 




^:h 








s 


I- •-&£.* 






. -M _C >" 




- 13 




c 


rt 


y to th 
ovemei 
on the 
:a's firs 
St Emi 






W 


~ ^-^-c^ 



.5 & 



— 73 n! rt IJ , 

O 3 ; 



iK 




oj ^ u § 

o Q ^ C^ 



D .— -tJ 



a Ji 



•3 c 



a=: "5 



3 tj 



H 


Ml 


« 


< 


j3 


c 


~ 


>. 


a 


-3 


^ 


1-. 



^ E "o 



Smithsonian Report. 1959— Welsh PLATE 2 






6Vl 



/^ 



i 



>/ 



^'-^^^ 



'/:, 










— 


a -^ -7 


- 


"Jf 7 ^ 




/J f/ -^ 


/ 


. . -: 




■ '/> 




■ fc 




■ 'i - 


A> 




■i"/; i* /// . 





■■■ri- \/'c*J<'t'-^ 



9 



I 3-(o 






/ 



// 



-a. 3' 






%Itl^. 



lAa-, 



y/OS -J ;j ></ 



In 1776 a Quaker miller took time to record an event of some consequence, namely, an account 
of "the Roe Buck, & Liverpoole Men of Warr & the 13 pensylvania Gunduloes" and their 
"Ingagement in the Delaware River Oposite Wilmington." (Brandywine Mills Daybook, 
1775-1783, Historical Society of Delaware.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Welsh 



Plate 3 




Oliver Evans introduced the idea of automation, and his inventions — the elevator, conveyor, 
hopper-boy, descender, and drill — ^revolutionized the flour-milling industry. His machines, 
dubbed rattletraps, were clanking away in the Brandy wine Mills as early as the 1780's, improv- 
ing quality, increasing yield, and reducing the physical burden of milling. This plate of the 
"automatic mill" first appeared in 1795 in Evans's Young Mill-Wrighfs and Miller's Guide. 



Smithsonian Report. 1959— Welsh 



Plate 4 







THOMAS REYNOLDS, 

li,jpio«fiit'y Ktuirii his thuihs to iht V.ihue 
for thtii Jotmer jj.uurs, arid injurnis ihatt, 
thut he ta, rUs uii tl'c 

Smitiis' Bulinefs, at Brandywiue 

A. ills, 

In a m*re €Ktenfiit manner than formerly. 

He continues to make and repair Scrtn>s (or 
raijlng will/innes, fa k ng fl ur arm i ,:-ac-o, 
Jor timber wheels, and Fuutrs and TrimerS 
prtjjes. 

Brands and Starxps in copper, irun and 
Jieel, cut m thi ntnieji manner. 

Orders from any part of ihi continent mill 
!>§ thankfully teuived, and sarcjuih, attenaed 



1. Despite mechanization, work was provided for scores of indi\'iduals including millers, 
millwrights, coopers, blacksmiths, and shallopmen. This blacksmith's advertisement 
appeared in the Delaware Gazette, March 20, 1790. (Historical Society of Delaware.) 




"Small craft, of apparently about ten or fifteen tons came directly alongside the mills" 
wrote Thomas Twining, but "sloops of a much larger size could mount the stream." This 
copper-plate engraving by an unknown engraver was done ca. 1804. It is one of several 
showing Wilmington's important "public" buildings. (Copper-plate; Historical Society of 
Delaware.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1959— Welsh 



Plate 5 


c 


p 


-a 


5 


D 


V 


*-> 




_<j 


3 


'5, 


S 


11 




-o 


>, 


-TD 


t> 


.2 


6C 






V 


' 7* 




o 




Smithsonian Report. 1959— Welsh 



Plate 6 




^ -£ ;;: -a 



qj oj ;i^ _c; 



K 4^ - 



^ r o 






rt 


v 


■U 


aj 


O 


o 


u 


-13 


-C 


i-, 




-2 




E 


a; 


£ 


^ 


"rt 


< 


_c 


u. 


cq 


V-i 


'rt 


S 






> 


JJ 


^ 


-a 


HH 


O 

O 


OS 


1-1 

o 




c5 

too 


e 
pi; 


5 




1) 


s 


■& 






_c 


<u 


lU 


« 


O 


■^ 


u- 


J 








lU 


^ 


•^ 


;_• 


o 


-C 


^ 




.2 




w 







bo 






t* 


0) 


rH 


>. 




*c 


J3 


i 

o 


'5 


« 


m 


& 



Smithsonian Report. 1959— Welsh 



Plate 7 




1. By the time the camera focused its harsh eye on the Brandywine Mills in the last decade 
of the 19th century, the once "charming prospect" seen by early travelers had begun To 
look tired and worn. (Picture Collection, Historical Society of Delaware.) 




2. Today, not far from where Bass Otis painted in 1840, the scene has changed. Yet beside 
this quiet tidal pool were laid the foundations of the American flour-milling industry. 



INDEX 



Abbot, C. G., X 

Abstract, The new uses of the (George 

A. W. Boehm), 309 
Accessions, 11, 94, 112, 127, 141, 151, 
154, 207 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 94 
Freer Gallery of Art, 127 
National Air Museum, 146 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 

112 
National Gallery of Art, 207 
National Museum, 11 
National Zoological Park, 151, 154 
Acton, Gladys E., 123 
Adams, Richard M., 101, 108 
Aikens, Richard S., 102 
Ambergris — Neptune's treasure (C. P. 

Idyll), 377 
Amos, William H., 29 
Amphibians, pioneers of terrestrial 
breeding habits (Coleman J. Goin), 
427 
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5, 51 
Anderson, Robert B., Secretary of the 
Treasury, member of the Institution, 
V, viii, 206 
Andrews, A. J., vi, 47 
Anglim, John E., vii, 43 
Animals, The survival of, in hot deserts 

(E. B. Edney), 407 
Animals and plants. The rhythmic 
nature of (Frank A. Brown, Jr.), 385 
Appropriations, 6, 61, 179, 198, 207, 242, 
243 

International Exchange Service, 

198 
National Gallery of Art, 207, 243 
National Zoological Park, 6, 179, 

243 
River Basin Surveys, 6, 61, 243 
Astronomy, Solar radio (Alan Maxwell), 

299 
Astronomy from artificial satellites (Leo 

Goldberg), 285 
Astrophysical Observatory, vii, 8, 96 
Astrophysical Research, Division 

of, 96 
Buildings and equipment, 108 
Publications, 103, 110, 229 
Radiation and Organisms, Division 

of, viii, 108 
Report, 96 
Staff, vii, 108 

Table Mountain field station, 96 
Aviation Education Institute, 233 

536608—60 48 



B 



Baird, Thomas P., 213 

Bales, Richard, 218, 219 

Barth, Robert H., 195 

Barton, George G., 102 

Bartsch, Paul, ix 

Bass, William M. Ill, 71, 81, 86 

Bassler, R. S., ix 

Batten, Roger L. (The need to classify), 
509 

Battison, Edwin A., vii, 35 

Bayer, Frederick M., vi, 31 

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National 
Collection of fine Arts, viii. 111, 112, 
122, 123, 126 

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, viii, ix, 208 

Bennett, Charles F., Jr., 195 

Benson, Ezra Taft, Secretary of Agri- 
culture, member of the Institution, v 

Beville, Henry B., 219 

Biebighauser, Ernest E., 229 

Bio-Sciences Information Exchange, 232 

Bishop, Philip W., vii, 38 

Blake, John B., vii, 37 

Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C, 91 

Blanchard, Ruth E., librarian of the 
Institution, v, 223 

Blest, A. D., 195 

(A study of saturniid moths in the 
Canal Zone Biological Area), 447 

Bliss, Robert Woods, 111 

Boardman, Richard S., vi, 32, 33 

Bobula, Ida (Sumerian technology), 637 

Boehm, George A. W. (The new uses of 
the abstract), 309 

Borgogni, Judith, 43 

Bory, Bela S., vii 

Bouton, Margaret, 216 

Bow, Frank T., 5 

Bowers, Alfred E., 81 

Bowman, Thomas E., vi, 29, 32 

Bradley, Hugh, 216 

Bradley, James C, assistant to the Sec- 
retary, v 

Brandy wine: An early flour-milling cen- 
ter (Peter C. Welsh), 677 

Bredin, J. Bruce, ix, 29 

Bredin, Mrs. J. Bruce, 29 

Briggs, Robert E., vii, 100 

Brooks, Overton, regent of the Institu- 
tion, v, 5 

Brown, Frank A., Jr. (The rhythmic 
nature of animals and plants), 385 

Brown, John Nicholas, regent of the 
Institution, v, 5 

Brown, R. W., ix 

687 



688 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Brown, William L., vii, 53 
Brucker, William M., 142 
Buchanan, Wiley T., 46, 48 
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 8, 
55 

Archives, 91 

Collections, 94 

Editorial work and publications, 94, 
228 

Illustrations, 93 

Miscellaneous, 95 

Report, 55 

River Basin Surveys, 60 

Staff, vii 

Systematic researches, 55 
Burris, Lee O., 180 

C 

Cahill, James F., viii, 135, 136, 137, 138 
Cairns, Huntington, ix, 206 
Caldwell, Warren W., 68, 79, 81, 85 
Campbell, Mrs. Ann S., acting chief, 

personnel division, vi 
Campbell, Leon, 101 
Campbell, William P., 213 
Canal Zone Biological Area, viii, 9, 190 
Acknowledgments, 196 
Buildings, equipment, and improve- 
ments, 192 
Finances, 195 

Plans and requirements, 195 
Rainfall, 192, 193 
Report, 190 
Scientists, students, and observers, 

190 
Visitors, 192 
Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5, 243 
Carlson, Ruth E., 216 
Carmichael, Leonard, Secretary of the 
Institution, v, viii, 46, 48, 111, 142, 
206 
Carriker, M. A., ix 
Cartwright, Oscar L., vi, 31 
Casey, Louis S., viii 
Chace, Fenner A., Jr., vi 
Chafe, Wallace L., vii, 59, 95 
Chancellor of the Institution (Earl 
Warren, Chief Justice of the United 
States), V, 5, 206 
Chapelle, Howard I., vii, 36 
Chapman, Carl, 82 
Chase, Mrs. Agnes, ix 
Chief Justice of the United States (Ear 
Warren, Chancellor of the Institu- 
tion), V, viii, 5, 206 
Chitwood, M. B., 182 
Christensen, Erwin O., 217 
Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, vii, 42 
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir, vii, 5, 41, 42, 

44 
Clark, T. F,, treasurer of the Institution, 

V 

Clarke, Gilmore D., Ill 
Clarke, J. F. Gates, vi, 31 
Clarke, Roy S., Jr., vi 
Classify, The need to (Roger L. Batten), 
509 



Cline, Howard, 47 

Clisby, Mrs. Catherine, 83 

Cloud, Preston, ix 

Cochran, Doris M., vi 

Coe, Ralph T., 213, 214 

Collins, Henry B., Jr., vii, 56, 57, 58 

Collins, J. A., Chief, International Ex- 
change Service, viii, 205 

Comcomly, The Chinook sign of free- 
dom: A study of the skull of the fam- 
ous chief (T. D. Stewart), 663 

Compton, Arthur H., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5 

Conger, Paul S., vi 

Coogan, Alan H., 76, 83, 87 

Cooke, C. Wythe, ix 

Cooke, H. Lester, 213, 214 

Cooper, G. Arthur, vi, 32 

Corbett, John, 47 

Corn, Reconstruction of the ancestor of 
(Paul C. Mangelsdorf), 495 

Cott, Perry B., ix, 206, 213 

Courtais, Henri G., 22, 124 

Covey, Kenneth, 99 

Cowan, Richard S., vi, 27, 29 

Cox, George W., 194 

Cox, John, 97 

Crabill, Ralph E., Jr., vi, 31 

Crane, H. R., 82 

Crawford, Frederick C, x 

Cudd, John E., 52 

Cutress, Charles E., Jr., vi 

D 

Dale, Chester, viii, ix, 206 

Darsie, Richard F., Jr., 29 

Davis, Malcolm, 180 

Davis, Robert J., vii, 98, 106 

Deacon, G. E. R. (The use of oceanog- 
raphy), 361 

Deetz, James J. F., 76, 87 

Deignan, Herbert G., vi, 30 

Dementiev, G. P. (The protection of 
fauna in the U.S.S.R.), 483 

DePrato, Mario, 181 

Desautels, Paul F., vi, 32, 33 

Dixon, Rear Adm. R. E., viii 

Docent service, 50 

Doolittle, Lt. Gen. James H., viii 

Dorman, Charles G., vii, 40 

Bow, Frank T., regent of the Institution, 
v 

Drake, C. J., ix 

Dubik, Michael, 180 

Dunkle, David H., vi, 34 

E 

Edelen, Mrs. Eloise B., 94, 228 
Edney, E. B. (The survival of animals 

in hot deserts), 407 
Eisenhower, Dwight D., President of 

the United States, Presiding Officer, 

ex officio, v 
Elder, Robert A., vi 
Elstad, Victor B., viii 
Ernst, Roger, 150 
Esposito, Adolph, 99 
Estabhshment, 4 



INDEX 



689 



Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 5, 132, 135, 

136, 137, 138 
Evans, Cliflford, Jr., vi, 23, 24, 47 
Evans, Grose, 216 
Ewers, John C., vi, 47, 53 
Executive Committee of the Board of 
Regents, v, 234, 243 
Members, v, 243 
Report, 234 

Appropriations, 242 

Assets, 237 

Audit, 243 

Cash balances, receipts, and 

disbursements, 239 
Endowments, summary of, 237 
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 236 
Funds and endowments, un- 
expended, 238 
Gifts and grants, 240 
Investments, classification of, 

237 
Smithsonian funds, 234 
Exhibitions, 45, 120, 124, 211 

National Collection of Fine Arts, 

120, 124 
National Gallery of Art, 211 
National Museum, 45 
Exploration and fieldwork, 22, 55 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 55 
National Museum, 22 



Fauna in the U.S.S.R., The protection 

of (G. P. Dementiev), 483 
Feidler, Ernest R., ix, 206, 217 
Feinstein, Bernard R., 30 
Feldman, Dr., 183 
Fenykovi, Josef J., and Mrs., 46-47 
Ferguson, Eugene S., vii, 35 
Field, William D., vi 
Finances, 5, 196, 234 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 196, 234 
See also Appropriations. 
Finlay, John, 29 
Finley, David E., Ill 
Fireman, E. L., vii, 99, 100, 106 
Fleming, Arthur S., Secretary of Health, 
Education, and Welfare, member of 
the Institution, v 
Fleming, Robert V., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5, 243 
Flight, Lessons from the history of (Gro- 

ver Loening), 347 
Fong, W^n, 133 
Foshag, Mrs. W. F., 45 
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 8, 127 
Attendance, 132 
Auditorium, 132 
Buildings and grounds, 131 
Collections, 127 

Repairs to, 129 
Exhibitions, changes in, 120 
Lectures, 132, 135 
Library, 129 

Photographic laboratory and sales 
desk, 130 



Freer Gallery of Art — Continued 

PubUcations, 130, 230 

Report, 127 

Staff, viii, 134 
Friedmann, Herbert, vi, 27, 28, 47 
Froiland, Alfred G., vii, 96 
Fugle, Eugene B., 81 
Fulbright, J. William, regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5 

G 

Garber, Paul E., viii, 142 

Gardner, Paul V., vii, 38 

Garvan, Anthony N. B., vii, 39, 40 

Gazin, C. Lewis, vi, 5, 34 

Geoghegan, William E., 44 

Gettens, Rutherford J., viii, 135, 136, 

137, 138, 139 
Gibson, Gordon D., vi, 25, 53 
Gifts, 151, 186, 207, 208, 220, 240 

Library, 220 

National Gallery of Art, 207, 208 

National Zoological Park, 151, 185 

See also Accessions. 
Ginsberg, Isaac, ix 

Goin, Coleman J. (Amphibians, pioneers 
of terrestrial breeding habits), 427 
Coins, Craddock R., Jr., vii, 42, 43 
Goldberg, Leo (Astronomy from artifi- 
cial satellites), 285 
Golden, Bernard, 78, 87 
Gordon, James H. (Mirages), 327 
Grabar, Oleg, x 
Graf, John E., ix 
Graham, David C, ix 
Grants, 240 
Gray, Basil, 133 
Greenewalt, Crawford H., regent of the 

Institution, v, 5 
Greenwood, Mrs. Arthur, ix 
Greeson, O. H., chief, photographic 

service division, vi 
Griffenhagen, George B., vii, 37, 53 
Griffith, Fuller O., 3d, vii, 39 
Grimmer, J. Lear, viii, 150 
Gruenther, Homer, 150 
Guest, Grace Dunham, x 

H 

Hackelman, Norma L., 95 

Hagen, John P., 142 

Hale, Mason E., Jr., vi, 27 

Hancock, Walter, 111 

Handley, Charles O., Jr., vi, 30 

Harrington, John P., x, 95 

Harrison, Junius H., viii 

Haskins, Caryl P., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5, 243 

Hayes, Bartlett, 111 

Henderson, Edward P., vi, 33 

Herber, Elmer C, ix 

Herter, Christian A., Secretary of State, 
member of the Institution, v, viii, 206 

Hilger, Sister M. Inez, x 

Hines, Janice, 124 



690 



ANNUAL REPORT SAOTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Hitchcock, Donald, 124 

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., ix 

Hodge, Paul W., 99 

Hogenson, Mrs. Aleita A., 130 

Hood, Maj. Gen. Reuben C, Jr., viii 

Hopkins, Philip S., Director, National 
Air Museum, viii, 142, 143, 149, 233 

Hotton, Nicholas, 3d, vi, 53 

Howard, James H., 81, 82 

Howell, Edgar M., vii, ix, 5, 42 

Hower, Rolland O., vii, 43 

Hunsaker, Jerome C, regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5 

Huscher, Harold A., 64, 65, 66, 67, 75, 
86 

Hynek, J. Allen, vii, 98, 100, 106, 107 

I 

Ida, John J., x 

Idyll, C. P. (Ambergris — Neptune's 

treasure), 377 
IGY in retrospect, The (Elliott B. 

Roberts), 263 
International, Exchange Service, viii, 
9, 197 

Appropriation, 198 
Foreign depositories of governmen- 
tal documents, 198 
Foreign exchange services, 203 
Interparliamentary exchange of the 

official journal, 201 
Publications received and sent, 197 
Report, 197 
Ireland, R. R., Jr. vi, 27 
Irving, Laurence, ix 
Irving, William N., 75, 80, 83, 86 



Jacchia, Luigi G., vii, 97, 100, 101, 106 
Jellison, W. L., ix 
Johnson, David H., vi 
Judd, Neil M., ix 



Kainen, Jacob, vii, 38, 39 

Karlson, A. G., 183 

Karras, Mrs. Ann, 44 

Karras, Chris, 44 

Kaufmann, John H., 195 

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the 
Institution, v 

Kellogg, A. Remington, Assistant Sec- 
retary of the Institution, Director of 
the National Museum, v, vi, 54 

Kendall, Edward C., vii, 36, 37 

Kendeigh, S. Charles, 194 

Kier, Eugene, 53 

Kier, Porter M., vi, 33, 34 

Killip, E. P., ix 

King, William James, vii, 37 

Klapthor, Mrs. Margaret B., vii, 40 

Klein, William H., viii 

Knez, Eugene I., vl 

Knight, J. B., ix 

Kozai, Yoshihide, 101, 102 

Kress, Rush H., viii, 206 

Krieger, Herbert W., ix 



Krimgold, Arlene P., Jr., vii 
Krook. Max, vii, 96, 97 



Lachner, Ernest A., vi, 30 

Lang, Andrew R., 99 

Lassovszky, Karoly, 102 

Lato, Stephen, 185 

Lautman, Don A., 101 

Lawless, Benjamin W., Jr., vii, 43 

Lea, John S., 227 

Lectures, 132, 135, 215, 231 

Freer Gallery of Art, 132, 135 
National Gallery of Art, 215 

Leonard, Emery C, vi 

Lewis, Mrs. Jo Ann Sukel, 122 

Lewis, Wilmarth S., Ill 

Lewton, Frederick L., 54 

Library, 9, 129, 216, 220 

Freer Gallery of Art, 129 
National Gallery of Art, 216 
Report, 220 

Lilly Research Laboratories, staff mem- 
bers of (Current advances and con- 
cepts in virology), 523 

Lindsay, G. Carroll, acting curator, 
Smithsonian Museum Service, v, 51, 
53, 232 

Loehr, Max, x 

Loening, Grover, viii, 142 

(Lessons from the history of flight), 
347 

Lucas, F. R., 182 

Lundeberg, Philip K., vii, 53 

Lyon, Rowland, viii, 123 

Lyons, Elizabeth, 133 

M 

MacKay, F. W., ix 

MacManus, Ruth B., 225 

Madison, Lee G., 80 

Mahonev, James A., 43, 44 

Male, Walter M., viii. 141 

Mangelsdorf, Paul C. (Reconstruction 

of the ancestor of corn), 495 
Mann, William M., ix, x 
Manship, Paul, 111 
Margulies, Maurice M., 109 
Maude H. E. (In search of a home: 

From the Munity to Pitcairn Island 

(1789-1790)), 533 
Maxwell, Alan (Solar radio astronomy), 

299 
McCain, Lucile, 43 
McCall, Francis J., vii, 41 
McClure, F. A., ix 
McElroy, Neil H., Secretary of Defense, 

member of the Institution, v 
Mcllhennv, Henry P., Ill 
Mcintosh^ Allen, ix, 182 
McNutt, Charles H., 72, 87 
Meggers, Betty J., ix, 23, 24 
Mellon, Paul, viii, 206 
Members of the Institution, v 
Meyer, Robert B., viii, 141 
Michaels, Andrew F., Jr., buildings 

manager, v 



INDEX 



691 



Michelson, Dorothea, 216 

Miller, Carl F., 59, 60, 64, 68 

Mirages (James H. Gordon), 327 

Mitchell, James P., Secretary of Labor, 
member of the Institution, v 

Monell, Edmund C, 46 

Moore, J. P., ix 

Morris, Rudolph G., 39 

Morrison, Joseph P. E., vi 

Morton, Conrad V., vi, 27 

Moynihan, Martin H., Resident Nat- 
uralist, Canal Zone Biological Area, 
viii, 196 

Muesebeck, C. F. W., ix 

Muldbjerg dwelling place. The: An 
early Neolithic archeological site in 
the Aamosen Bog, West-Zealand, 
Denmark (J. Troels-Smith) , 577 

Mulloy, William, 82 

Multhauf, Robert P., vii, 34, 35 

Murray, Mrs. Anne W., vii 

Museum of History and Technology, vi 

Museum of Natural History, vi 

Mutiny to Pitcairn Island (1789-1790), 
In search of a home: From the 
(H. E. Maude), 533 

Myers, George Hewitt, 111 

N 

National Air Museum, viii, 8, 141 

Accessions, 146 

Advisory board, viii, 142 

Assistance to Government depart- 
ments, 143 

Exhibits, improvements in, 142 

Public information service, 143 

Reference material and acknowl- 
edgments, 143 

Repair, preservation, and restora- 
tion, 143 

Report, 141 

Special events, 142 

Staff, viii, 141 
National Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 
8, 111 

Accessions, 112 

Art works lent, 114 

Information service and staff activ- 
ities, 122 

Loans returned, 112 

Mver, Catherine Walden, fund, 112 

Publications, 122, 230 

Ranger, Henry Ward, fund, 119 

Report, 111 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 111 

Smithsonian lending collection, 118 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service, viii, 120 

Special exhibitions, 124 

Staff, viii 
National Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 206 

Accessions, 207 

Appropriations, 207, 243 

Attendance, 207 

Audit, 219 

Buildings and grounds, mainte- 
nance of, 217 



National Gallery of Art — Continued 

Curatorial activities, 213 

Educational program, 215 

Exhibitions, 211 

Gifts, 207, 208 

Index of American Design, 217 

Library, 216 

Officials, ix, 206 

Organization, 206 

Publications, 214 

Report, 206 

Restoration, 213 

Trustees, viii, 206 

Works of art, exchange of, 208 
lent, 210 
on loan, 209 
returned, 209 
National Museum, vi, 7, 11 

Buildings and equipment 

Collections, 11 

Docent service, 50 

Exhibitions, 45 

Exploration and fieldwork, 22 

Organization and staff, changes 
in, 53 

Publications, 227 

Report, 11 

Staff, vi 
National Zoological Park, viii, 6, 9, 150 

Animals in the collection on June 
30, 1959 

Appropriation, 6, 179, 243 

Births and hatchings, 155 

Buildings, grounds, and enclosures, 
187 

Cooperation, 185 

Deposits, 155 

Exchanges, 154 

Exhibits, 150 

Finances, 179 

Gifts, 151, 185 

Information and education, 150 

Map, 152 

Personnel, 179 

Plans for the future, 189 

Purchases, 154 

Pygmy hippopotamuses, 178 

Report, 150 

Status of the collection, 157 

Veterinarian's report, 181 

Visitors, 185 
Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar 
Cave, northern Iraq, Three adult 
(Ralph S. Soleeki), 603 
Neilson, George J., 98, 107 
Neuman, Robert W., 65, 68, 77, 88 
Newland, Kenneth E., viii, 141 
Newman, Marshal T., vi 
Nixon, Richard M., Vice President of 
the United States, member of the 
Institution, v, 5, 46 



Oceanography, The use of (G. E. R. 

Deacon), 361 
Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial and 

publications division, v, 230 



692 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1959 



Officials of the Institution, v, vi 
Orbison, Nancy, 140 

P 

Parfin, Sophy, vi 
Pearce, Franklin L., vi 
Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administra- 
tive assistant to the Secretary, v 
Pennock, William, 44 
Perry, Kenneth M., vii, 36, 44 
Peterson, Charles A., 103 
Peterson, Mendel L., vii, 42 
Phillips, Duncan, viii, 206 
Pistey, Warren, 181 
Pleissner, Ogden M., Ill 
Pope, Mrs. Annemarie H., chief, Smith- 
sonsian Traveling Exhibition Service, 
viii, 122, 123 
Pope, John A., viii, 133, 135, 136, 137 

138, 139 
President of the United States (Dwight 
D. Eisenhower, Presiding Officer ex 
officio), V 
Presiding Officer ex officio (Dwight D. 
Eisenhower, President of the United 
States), V 
PubHcations, 9, 94, 103, 110, 122, 130, 
214, 224 

American Historical Association, 

230 
Astrophvsical Observatory, 103, 

110, 229 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 94, 

228 
Daughters of the American Rev- 
olution, 230 
Distribution, 225 
Freer Gallery of Art, 130, 230 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 

122, 230 
National Gallery of Art, 214 
National Museum, 227 
Radiation and Organisms, 110 
Report, 224 
Smithsonian, 225 

R 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of, 
viii, 108 

Publications, 110 
Report, 108 
Staff, viii 
Reed, Theodore H., Director, National 

Zoological Park, viii, 180, 181, 189 
Reeside, John B., Jr., 54 
Regents, Board of, v, 5 
Annual meeting, 5 
Dinner, 5 

Executive Committee, v, 234, 243 
Members, v, 243 
Report, 234 
Members, v, 5 
Rehder, Harald A., vi, 32 
Research associates, collaborators, and 

fellows, ix 
Reynolds, Orr E., 233 
Rhee, Hai Chin, 99 
Rhoades, Katherine N., x 



Riggs, F. Behn, Jr., vii, 99, 106 
Riesenberg, Saul H., vi, 24, 25 

Rinehart, John S., 108 

River Basin Surveys, vii, 6, 60 
Appropriation, 6, 61, 243 
Cooperating institutions, 90 
Report, 60 
Staff, vii 

Roberts, Elliott B. (The IGY in retro- 
spect), 263 

Roberts, Frank H, H., Jr., Director, 
Bureau of American Ethnology and 
River Basin Surveys, vii, 55, 56, 64, 95 

Roberts, Henry B., 34 

Rogers, Grace L., vii, 38 

Rogers, William P., Attorney General, 
member of the Institution, v 

Roth, Rodris C, vii, 40, 41 

Roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides, Evo- 
lution of knowledge concerning the 
(Benjamin Schwartz), 465 

Rudd, Velva E., vi, 27 

S 

Saltonstall, Leverett, regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5 

Saturniid moths in the Canal Zone Bio- 
logical Area, A study of (A. D. Blest), 
447, 

Sawyer, Charles, 111 

Schaller, W. T. ix 

Schilling, Gerhard F., 106, 108 

Schmitt, Waldo L., ix, 29 

Schriever, Gen. Bernard, 142 

Schultz, Leonard P., vi 

Schumacher, E. G., 93 

Schwartz, Benjamin, ix 

(Evolution of knowledge concern- 
ing the roundworm Ascaris 
lumbricoides) , 465 

Seaborg, Glenn T. (The transuranium 
elements), 247 

Sears, Paul B., 80, 82 

Seaton, Fred A., Secretary of the In- 
terior, member of the Institution, v 

Secretary of the Institution (Leonard 
Carmichael), v, viii, 46, 48, 111, 142, 
206 

Setzer, Henry W., vi 

Setzler, Frank M., vi, 22, 51 

Shapley, Fern Rusk, 213, 214 

Shoemaker, Clarence R., 54 

Shortridge, John D., vii, 53 

Shropshire, Walter A., Jr., 109 

Sisler, Edward C, 109 

Slowey, Jack, 101 

Smith, A. C, vi, 53 

Smith, Carlyle S., 82 

Smith, G. Hubert, 65, 67, 89 

Smith, H. Alexander, 5 

Smith, H. Morgan, ix, 23 

Smith, Lyman B., vi, 26 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 111 

Smithsonian Museum Service, 232 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice, viii, 120 

Snodgrass, R. E., ix 



INDEX 



693 



Snyder, T. E., ix 

Solecki, Ralph S., vi, 24, 53 

(Three adult Neanderthal skeletons 
from Shanidar Cave, northern 
Iraq), 603 

Soper, C. C., x 

Staff, vi, 53 

Stapko, C. Gregory, 124 

Stephenson, Robert L., vii, 68, 70, 84 

Stern, Harold P., viii, 133, 135, 136, 137, 
138 13Q 

Sterne, Theodore E., vii, 97, 98, 102 

Stevenson, J. A., ix 

Stewart, T. Dale, vi, 25, 26, 47 

(The Chinook sign of freedom: A 
study of the skull of the famous 
chief Comcomly), 563 

Stewart, Mrs. T. Dale, 25, 26 

Stirling, Matthew W., x, 95 

Stites, Raymond S., 215 

Straub, Paul A., 54 

Strauss, Lewis L., Secretary of Com- 
merce, member of the Institution, v 

Sturtevant, William C, vii, 58, 59 

Sullivan, Francis, 124, 213, 214 

Sumerian technology (Ida Bobula), 637 

Summerfield, Arthur E., Postmaster 
General, member of the Institution, v 

Swallen, Jason R., vi 

Switzer, George S., vi, 32 



Table Mountain, Calif., field station, vii 

Talbert, Darnel G., viii 

Taylor, Frank A., Director of the Mu- 
seum of History and Technology, vi, 
34 

Taylor, Prentiss, 45 

Taylor, William R., vi, 30 

Taylor, W. W., Jr., ix 

Ternbach, Joseph, 124 

Thomas, Charles, 150 

Tobin, W. J., ix 

Transuranium elements. The (Glenn T, 
Seaborg), 247 

Troels-Smith, J. (The Muldfcjerg dwell- 
ing place: An early Neolithic archeo- 
logical site in the Aamosen Bog, West- 
Zealand, Denmark), 577 

Turner, George T., vii, 41, 53 



U 



Usilton, Mrs. Bertha M., 138 



V 

Vale, William G., 185 

Vaughn, Peter P., vi, 34, 53 

Veis, George, 101, 102 

Virology, Current advances and con- 
cepts in (staff members of Lilly Re- 
search Laboratories), 523 

Visitors, 6, 132, 185, 192, 207 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 192 
Freer Gallery of Art, 132 
National Gallery of Art, 207 
National Zoological Park, 185 

Vogel, Robert M., vii, 35 

Vorys, John M., 5 

W 

Walker, Egbert H., vi, 54 

Walker, Ernest P., x 

Walker, John, ix, 206, 219 

Waring, A. J., Jr„ x, 95 

Warren, Earl, (Jhief Justice of the 

United States, Chancellor of the 

Institution, v, viii, 5, 206 
Washburn, Wilcomb E., vii, 40 
Watkins, C. Malcolm, vii, 40 
Watkins, William N., vii 
Weakly, Harry E., 88 
Wedderburn, Alexander J., Jr., vii, 39 
Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 23 
Wegenroth, Stow, 111 
Weiss, Helena M., vi 
Welsh, Peter C, vii, 53 

(Brandy wine: An early flour- 
milling center), 677 
Wenley, Archibald G., Director, Freer 

Gallery of Art, viii, HI, 137, 140 
West, Elisabeth H., 138 
Wetmore, Alexander, ix, 28 
Wheeler, Richard P., 74, 89 
Whipple, Fred L., Director, Astrophysi- 

cal Observatory, vii, 98, 99, 100, 106, 

107, 108, 110 
White, John H., vii, 36 
White, William, 98 
Whitney, Charles A., vii, 97, 101, 102, 

106, 107 
Widder, Robert, 43 
Widener, John C., 44 
Wilding, A. W., chief, supply division, vi 
Willis, Paul, 47 
Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., ix 
Wood, John, 99 
Wood, Robert, 141 
Wright, Frances W., 99 
Wright, James F., 180 
WuUschleger, A. E., 48 
Wyeth, Andrew, 111 



o 




3 9088 01421 7657 



