Samuel f. Mag^t. ^. gU f |. a, 

ANNUAL EEPOKT 



BOAED OF KEGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOE 



THE YEA.Il 1880. 



WASHINGTON- 

l'.„..jRAWN FROM GOVERNMENT FEINTING OFFICE. 

1881. 



In the Senate of the United States, 

Feb7'uary 3, 1881. 
The following resolution was agreed to by the Senate, January 25, 1881, and con- 
curred in by the House of Representatives, February 3, 1881 : 

Resolved by the Senate {the House of Representatives concurring), That fifteen thousand 
five hundred and sixty copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year 1830 be printed ; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use 
of the Senate, six thousand and sixty copies for the use of the House of Representa- 
tives, and seven thousand copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, 
Attest : 

JNO. C. BURCH, 

Secretary. 



LETTER 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual reiwrt of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year 

1880. 



January 19, 1881. — Ordered to be printed. 



S3IITHS0NIAN INSTITUTION, 
Washirigton, January 19, 1881. 

Gentleimen : In belialf of the Board of Eegeiits, I have the honor 
to submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the year 1880. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. Wm. a. Wheeler, 

President of the United States Senate, and 
Hon. S. J. Randall, 

Speaker of the Rouse of Representatives. 

m 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE "ESTABLISHMENT." 



EUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States. 

WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

WILLIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of State. 

JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury. 

ALEX. RAMSEY, Secretary of War. 

RICHARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy. 

HORACE MAYNARD, Postmaster-General. 

CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior. 

CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General. 

EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, 

President of the Board. 
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States. 
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States. 
NEWTON BOOTH, member of the Senate of the United States. 
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States. 
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives. 
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOSEPH E. JOHNSTON, member of the House of Representatives. 
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 
HENRY COPPfiE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C. 
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut. * 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. 
PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN. 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



EUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding OflScer. 

MORRISON E. WAITE, Chief. Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution (President of the Board of Regents). 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary (Director of the Smithsonian Institution and of the 
National Museum). 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

IV 



OFFICEES AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, JANUAKY, 1881. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 

Secretary, Director of the Institution, 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 
Daniel Leech, Corresponding Clerk. 



Assistants and Clerks. 



Clarence B.Young. 

H. DiEBlTSCH. 

W. W. Karr. 
J. A. Turner. 
L. Stoekzer. 
Henry Gass. 



Wm. B. Taylor. 

G. H. Boehmer. 

M. E. Griffin. 

H. de C. Daingerfield. 

S. G. Brown. 

J. S. Pollock. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Director. 

G. BROWN GOODE, Assistant Director. 

ROBT. RIDGWAY, Curator {Ornitholo(jy). 

CHAS. RAU, Curator (Archwology). 

TARLETON H. BEAN, Curator (Ichthyolog)/). 

CHARLES A. WHITE, Curator (Paleontology). 

GEORGE W. HAWES. Curator (Mineralogy). 

F. W. TAYLOR, Chemist. 

EDWARD FOREMAN, Assistant (Ethnology). 

F. H. GUSHING Assistant (Ethnology). 



Henry Horan, Superintendent of Building. 

C. W. SCHUERMANN, Assistant. 

Albert A. Duly, Engineer. 

W. J. Green, Electrician. 

Joseph Palmer, Modeller. 

A. Z. Shindler, Artist. 

T. W. Smillie, Photographer. 

Henry Marshall, Taxidermist. 

S. C. Brown, Registrar. 

E. P. Upham, Clerk (Archeology). 

F. R. Schaeffer, Copyist. 
Joseph Herron, Janitor. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 

THE YEAR 1880. 



CONTENTS. 



1. Annual report of the. Secretary, giving an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1880, with the statistics of 
collections, exchanges, &c. 

2. Eeport of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1880, and the estimates for 1881. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents for the session of January, 

1881 

4. General appendix, comprising a record of recent progress in the 
principal departments of science, and special memoirs, original and 
selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu- 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



CONTENTS 



Page. 

Resolution of Cougress to print extra copies of tlie Eeport " 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress " 

Members ex-officio of the "Establishment," and Regents of the Institution.... ir 

Officers and assistants of the Institution, and of the National Museum v 

General subjects of the Annual Report ^} 

Contents of the Report ^" 



I.— REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution - ^ 

Introductory 

Memorials 

Statue of Professor Henry ^ 

Representations of Professor Henry 

Smithson's effects 

Smithson's tomb 

Inaugural reception ^ 

Finances 

The Habel bequest 

Relations of the Institution to the National Museum 6 

Buildings " 

Smithsonian building 

Armory building 

Laboratory of Natural History ^ 

Routine work of the Institution ^ 

Administration • 

Correspondence • 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph H 

13 
Exchanges 

International exchanges • ^"^ 

Government document exchange IJ^ 

Distribution ' 

Distribution of publications 1^ 

Distribution of specimens ^' 

Library 

Additions for the year 

Special gifts received 

Researches 

Laboratory work ~ 

Explorations • " 

F. H. Gushing — New Mexico '^'^ 

F. M. Endlich— West Indies and Demarara 23 

Charles Bendire— Arizona, Oregon, &c '-^"^ 

Vil 



VIII 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 
Eeport of the Secretary — Continued. 
Explorations — Contin tied. 

F. A. Ober— Wesclndies 24 

David S. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert — Pacific coast 24 

Tarlton H. Bean — Alaska 25 

W. H. Ball— Alaska 26 

H. H. Rusby — NewMexico 26 

Howgate arctic expedition 26 

Publications 27 

Index to Smithsonian publications 28 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 28 

Twenty-second volume 28 

Palenque tablet, by Dr. C. Ran 29 

Physiological research : Dr. H. C. Wood, on "Fever" 29 

Meteorology — tables of rain-fall 30 

Archaeology (G. Latimer, F. A. Ober, L. H. Morgan, and L. Fison) 31 

Miscellaneous Collections 32 

Sixteenth volume 32 

Seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth volumes 33 

Memoir of James Smithson, by W. J. Rhees 33 

Henry memorial volume 34 

Digest of atomic weights, by G. F. Becker 35 

The Toner lectures 36 

Lecture on sanitary drainage, by George E. Waring 37 

Physical tables, by Professor Guyot 38 

Bulletius of the National Museum 38 

Proceedings of the National Museum 40 

Systematic nomenclature 41 

Smithsonian Annual Report 42 

Contents of Report for 1878 42 

Contents of Report for 1879 43 

JfATiONAL Museum 44 

Increase of the Museum 46 

1. By localities — 

Alaska 47 

California 48 

Arizona 48 

New Mexico 48 

Montana 49 

Wyoming Territory 49 

Florida 49 

Atlantic coast 49 

Mexico 49 

West Indies 50 

South America 50 

Europe 50 

Western Africa 50 

2. By subjects — 

Ethnological contributions 51 

Mammals - 51 

Birds 52 

Reptiles 53 

Fishes 53 

Shells 55 



CONTENTS. IX 

Page. 
National Museum — Continued. 

Increase of the Museum — Continued. 

Plants 56 

Fossils 56 

Minerals 56 

Paintings , 56 

Miscellanea 56 

Work done in the Museum 57 

Work done on collections 58 

Distribution of dui)licate specimens 60 

Assistants in the Museum 61 

Courtesies from foreign museums 61 

Ethnological Bureau 62 

Relations of the Institution to other establishments 62 

The Government 62 

Gallery of Art 63 

Polaris expedition 63 

Alaska Commercial Company 64 

Centennial Commission archives 64 

National Academy of Sciences 65 

Paris International Congress and Exposition relative to electricity 65 

Recognition by foreign governments - 65 

Miscellaneous matters 56 

Deaths of employes and collaborators 66 

Thomas M. Brewer 66 

James W. Milner 67 

J. Homer Lane 68 

William Q. Force : 69 

Carl Hermann Berendt 69 

Special donations 70 

Loan of books and apparatus 71 

Loan of specimens 71 

Restoration of the Declaration of Independence 72 

United States Fish Commission 72 

General objects and results 73 

Fishery census of 1880 ■; 77 

Berlin International Fishery Exhibition 80 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 85 

Statistics of exchanges for 1880 85 

1. Foreign exchanges in 1880 85 

Boxes and parcels received in 1880 85 

Boxes sent abroad in 1880 85 

Shipping agents of the Institution 86 

Agencies for the distribution of exchanges 87 

Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Institution 88 

2. Domestic exchanges in 1880 88 

Packages received from abroad for distribution in the United States . 88 

Packages received for distribution in British America 92 

Packages received for individuals 92 

3. Government exchanges in 1880 96 

List of periodicals received by the Institution 98 

Rules for the examination of specimens submitted to the Institution 108 

Report of the Chemist, F. W. Taylor 108 



X CONTENTS. 

/ 

Page. 
Appendix to the Report of the Secretary — Continued. 

Additions to the collections of the National Museum 110 

Same received from the Berlin International Fisheries Exhibition 135 

Report of explorations in New Mexico and Arizona, by James Stevenson. .. 136 

Receipts and distribution of specimens 139 

The first decade of the United States Fish Commission, by G. B. Goode 140 

Special Report of the Executive Committee (on the Henry statue) 150 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1880 158 

Condition of the funds 158 

Receipts in 18«0 : 159 

Expenditures in 1880 159 

Estimated receipts and expenditures for 1881 161 

National Museum, appropriations for, by Congress 161 

JouRXAL OF Proceedings of the Board of Regents 164 

Report of the National Museum Building Commission for 1880 167 

Report of the Superintending Architects of the Museum Building 170 

II.— GENERAL APPENDIX. 

I.— Record of recent scientific progress 181 

Introduction, by S. F. Baird 181 

Astronomy, by E. S. Holden 183 

Geology, by G. W. Hawes 221 

Physics, by G. F. Barker 235 

Chemistry, by G. F. Barker 289 

Mineralogy, G. W. Hawes 299 

Botany, by W. G. Farlow..... 313 

Zoology, by Theodore Gill 331 

Anthropology, by O. T. Mason. 391 

II. — Miscellaneous papers 403 

Bibliography of Anthropology, by O. T. Mason 403 

Abstracts of Anthropological correspondence 441 

Report on the Luray Cavern 449 

Discussion of Professor Snell's barometric observations, by F. H. Loud.... 461 

Investigation of illuminating materials, by Joseph Henry 483 

Synopsis of the scientific writings of William Herschel, by E. S. Holden, 

and C. S. Hastings 509 

Reports of astronomical Observatories 623 

Index to the volume ..^ 741 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR BAIRD, 

SECEETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1880. 



To tlie Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen: I have the honor to present herewith a report of the 
condition of the Smithsonian Institntion for the year 1880. 

As heretofore, in addition to matters pertaining strictly to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, I shall give an account of the operations connected 
with the National Museum, placed by Congress in charge of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, as well as of those of the United States Fish Com- 
mission, of which the i)resent Secretary is the chief officer. 

THE SMITHSOmAN mSTITUTIOK 

INTRODUCTORY. 

In the report for 1879 the anuouncement was made of an appropria- 
tion by Congress for the purpose of constructing a new building for the 
service of the ISTational Museum, and of the commencement and rapid 
I)rogress of the work upon the same. I now have the pleasure of stat- 
ing that the work has been in the greater part completed during the 
year 1880, and that a portion of the building is already occupied for its 
legitimate objects. 

The details of progress and completion will be given in full in the 
report of the building committee and of the architect, to which I would 
refer. It will be sufficient to say here that the work has all been done 
within the estimates, and that it x:»romises to be even more suitable to 
its purpose than was anticipated. All the requirements in regard to 
light and heat are fully met ; and in this respect, and in that of its slight 
cost in i^roportion to the space obtained, the building is believed to have 
no i)arallel in the country. Including the building proper, the steam 
heating apparatus, the gas and water fixtures, and all their accessories, 
the cost has amounted to less than $3 per square foot of ground floor, 
and to about G cents per cubic foot of entire capacity. 

Another noteworthy event of the year has been the election of Mr. 
James A. Garfield, one of the Eegents of the Institution, to the office of 
President of the United States. 
S. Mis. 31 1 



2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

MEMORIALS. 

Statue of Professor Ecnry.— The annual meeting of the Board of Ee- 
gents was held on the 17th of January, at which time the usual reports 
of the year 1879 were presented. Prior to that date a bill had been 
introduced into the Senate by Mr. Booth, a Eegent of the Institution, 
providing for the erection in the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution 
of a statue of Professor Henry. This, in a somewhat modified form, 
passed the Senate and House and became a law by the signature of the 
President on the 1st of June, 1880.* 

The total appropriation was $15,000, and it was agreed tliat one-fourth 
should be paid on the completion of the design, one-fourth on the com- 
pletion of tlie model in clay, one-fourth on the completion in bronze, 
and the remainder on the placing of the statue in the Smithsonian 
grounds. 

Memorial representations of Professor Henrij.— The Institution is in- 
debted to Mr. F. Gutelvunst, of Philadelphia, for copies of an excellent 
phototype of the late Secretary, Professor Henry, copied from a photo- 
graph taken by the same artist during the time of the Centennial Exhibi- 
tion. The portrait is a mechanical imprint of cabinet size, a close re- 
production of the original photograph. 

Although a partial account of various portraitures of Professor Henry 
was given in the last annual report, it may uot be improper, with the 
view of mating the record more complete, to repeat those formerly men- 
tioned, as well as to indicate additional likenesses. 

Of original photographs, there are one small front face (carte size) by 
H. Ulke; one profile head (carte size) by T. W. SmiUie; one small size, 
full-length, standing, by the same ; one iront view of head and bust, cabi- 
net size, by the same, and one, imperial size, by the same ; one, carte 
size, and four different views, cabinet size, by M. B. Brady, of Wash- 

* In view of the a(ljouriiment of the Board of Regents at the time of the passage of 
the law, it was impossible to take any formal action in the matter ; but in the exer- 
.cise of its general discretion, the executive committee entered into correspondence with 
Mr. Story j'the artist designated in the act as the sculptor, and obtained from him his 
acceptance of the trust, and some suggestions as to the design and the general condi- 
tions of carrying it out. 

As the executive committee was doubtful as to its authority to carry out fully the 
provisions of the proposed agreement with Mr. Story, the members of the Board were 
communicated with by letter and their assent obtained to such action as the com- 
mittee might deem best in the premises. 

It was therefore thought best to make a provisional ratification of the agreement 
with Mr. Story, the session of Congress in the beginning of December rendering it 
p ossib]« to obtain the action of the Board before anything could be done by the sculp- 
tor. A meeting of the Board therefore, was held on the 8th day of December, 1880, 
and the action of the exec utive ccmimittee was approved and authority given to carry 
jt into effect. A dispatch was sent by Atlantic cable to Mr. Story, and the work, ac- 
cording to a recent communication from Hon. George P. Marsh, United States minis- 
cr at Rome, Mr. Story's place of residence, is progressing satisfactorily. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3 

ington ; two, cabinet size, by A. Gardner, of Washington ; three, cab- 
inet size, by S. M. Fassett, of Washington ; and one of cabinet size and 
one of imperial size, both by F. Gutekunst, of Phihidelphia. 

Of crayon heads of life size, there are one by H. Ulke, from an oil 
portrait by the same ; oue by Mrs. Fassett, from a portrait by S. M. Fas- 
sett; one by Mrs. M. G. Dayton, from a photograph by Fassett ; one by 
E. Eeichmann, from a photograph by T. W. Smillie ; and one by A. J. 
Janvier, from a photograph by M. B. Brady. 

Of woodcuts, one was published in an "Account of the Smithsonian 
Institution," by W. J. Rhees, W^ashington, 1855; and one in Harper's 
Weekly of June 1, 1878, accomiianying an obituary notice. 

Of engramnyfi on steel, one was produced by L. L. Punderson, from 
a painting by Mooney, and published at Boston in the Annual of Sci- 
entific Discovery for 1852 ; one was engraved by G. E. Hall, from a 
photograph, and published at New York in the Eclectic Magazine for 
March, 1875 ; oue was engraved by S. Hollyer, from a i)hotograph, and 
published at New York, in Appleton's Annual Cyclopedia for 1879; 
and one of small size, vignette, was engraved hy the Bureau of En- 
graving and Printing of the Treasury Department, at Washington, 1880, 
for publication iu the Memorial volume ordered by Congress. 

Of oil paintings, of bust or half-length life size, one was painted by H. 
Ulke, of Washington ; one was painted by W. Ingalls ; one by Thomas 
Le Clear, of New York ; and one by Theodore Kaufmaun, of Washington. 

Of busts in plaster, oue of small size was modeled hj C. W. Burton, of 
Washington ; one of life size by Clarke Mills, of Washington ; one of 
life size by Fisk Mills, of Washington ; and one of life size by Mrs. 
C. S. Brooks, of New York. 

In the last report it was stated that Congress had authorized the 
printing iu one volume of the memorial services held iu honor of Pro- 
fessor Henry in the House of Eepresentatives on the IGth of January, 
1879. Of this volume a large edition was ordered ; and after various 
delays, beyond the control of the Institution, it will soon appear in a well- 
printed form, accompanied by an excellent portrait engraved by the 
Treasury Department. There has been a great demand for this work 
from all quarters of the country, and copies of it will be placed in all 
the principal libraries at home and abroad. 

Smithsofi's Effects. — By the Gth section of the organizing act of Con- 
gress of August, 1846, it was provided that "the minerals, books, manu- 
scripts, and other property of James Smithson, which have been received 
by the Government of the United States, and are now placed iu the 
Department of State, shall be removed to said Institution, and shall be 
preserved separate and apart from other property of the Institution," 

The books belonging to the founder of the Institution have been cata- 
logued and placed in a handsome walnut case with plate-glass front. 
They consist of 45 duodecimo, 110 octavo, and 26 quarto volumes, many 
of them in a worn, and a few in a dilapidated condit on. It has been 



4 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tliought proper, however, to leave tliem exactly as they were when form- 
ing the library of Mr. Smithson. 

Such of the relics of Smithsou and his family as have come mto pos- 
session of the Institution have also been appropriately arranged m frames 
and placed on exibition in the Eegents' room. They consist of the foUow- 

in g articles: 
1 An oil portrait of Smithson as au Oxford student. 

2. An oil portrait in miniature of Smithsou, painted by Johns, at Aix- 
la-Chapelle, in 181G. ^. , . . i^ 

3. An oil portrait in miniature of Col. Henry Louis Dickmson, a hall- 
brother of James Smithson. 

4. The dinner invitation card of Smithson. 

5. His visiting card, used in Paris. 

6. A copy of his will in his own handwriting. 

7. A manuscript in his handwriting. 

8. A commission from George HI to Major Henry Louis Dickinson, 
as Lieutenant-Colonel, dated 1st Jan., 1800. 

9. A commission from the same King to Lieut.- Colonel H. L. Dickin- 
son, as Colonel of the 8Jth Eegt., dated 4th Aug., 1808. 

Smithson' s Tomb.— It is, of course, eminently proper that the Smithsonian 
Institution should do all in its power to preserve the remembrance of its 
great founder, Mr. James Smithson ; and an endeavor toward this end has 
been made by the publication of a Life of Smithson and a reprint of all 
his works. In the efforts to obtain a memorial of some kind of the last 
resting place of Mr. Smithson, at Genoa, in Italy, a photograph of the 
tomb was obtained from Mr. Hazelton, the United States consul in 
that city, with a statement of its present condition. In accorrlance 
with a suggestion from him he was authorized to put the monument 
in thorough repair and to arrange to have it kept in good condition at 
the expense of the Institution. The monument is an appropriate and 
substantial one, and as long as the Institution is in existence this 
reminder of its founder should be carefully protected. 

INAUGURAL RECEPTION. 

Eeference should be made to the granting of the use of the new Museum 
building for the purpose of holding the inaugural reception in honor of 
the newly-elected President. A petition to that effect, from a committee 
of citizens of Washington, was presented at a meeting of the Board on 
the 8th of December, and the following resolution, granting the request, 

was passed : 

" Whereas the new Museum building is unfinished and not ready for 
occupancy of the government collections, and whereas such a contin- 
gency will not again occur, and no precedent is to be given for the use 
of the building for other purposes : , ., t i 

'^Eesolved, That the use of the new National Museum building be 
granted for the inaugural reception of the President of the United 
States, on the 4th of March, 1881, and that the Secretary of the bmith- 
sonian Institution be authorized to make all necessary arrangements 
for this purpose." 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. O 

Subsequently application was made to tlie Institution by several 
other committees for the use of the building after the inaugural recep- 
tion on the 4th of March. These were all refused, although the objects 
in view Avere praiseworthy in themselves. 

FINANCES. 

General Condition. — It is believed that the finances of the Institution 
have never been in amore favorable condition than they are at the pres- 
ent time.* 

As the income of the Smithson fund is a definite one and can be 
calculated upon almost to a cent, year by year, it is, of course, i)racticable 
to estimate the expenditures with much precision. Nothing but some 
calamity, such as the destruction or serious injury of the building, is 
likely to involve an outlay that would seriously interfere with the general 
programme for the year. 

Under the general limitations of the appropriations made by the 
Board of Regents, for the different classes of expenditure, it is, of course, 
a matter of proper business management to incur no liabilities for the 
year beyond those that the fund is able to meet; and a strict adher- 
ence to this rule has prevented any embarrassment in regard to pay- 
ments. There has been no indebtedness at the end of the year except 
* that for some incomplete publications, and for which the necessary pro- 
vision had been made. 

Reference has been made in this report to several bequests, by which 
the principal of the fund has been increased, the first of these being 
that of Mr. James Hamilton, of Carlisle, which, amounting to $1,<J00 
was added to the i)rincipal of the Smithson fund in the United States 
Treasury. 

Hahel Bequest. — An account was given in the last report, of the 
bequest of $402,59 to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. S. Habel, of 
New York. By authority of the executive committee, the sum of 
$97.41 was appropriated from the annual income of the Institution and 
added to the above in order to make up the amount of $500. This 
was then deposited in the United States Treasury to the credit of the 
Smithsonian endowment, under the provisions of law. 

The Habel bequest thus slightly enlarged and added to the Hamilton 
fund of $1,000, making the sum of $1,500, will yield annually at G per 
cent, an income of $90. It is proposed to devote this special income to 
the prosecution of ethnological and archaeological research. 

The funds of the Institution now in the treasury, according to the 
report of the executive committee, amount, with these two bequests, to 

*The endowment (referred to elsewhere) is for the most part in the U. S. Treasury, 
■where the j)rincipal can never be touched, and it yields an annual interest of six per 
cent. A small portion is invested in "Virginia State securities. 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

$651,500, leaving a balance of $348,500 necessary to make up the million 
dollars authorized by Congress as its perpetual endowment. It is very 
much to be hoped that some of our wealthy men may feel mchned to 
contribute a part or even the whole of this sum, as it is believed that 
no more desirable contribution to science and education could be devised. 
The machinery of the Institution is extensive enough to administer a 
much larger amount than it at present possesses, so that no part of such 
contribution would be required for salaries, rent, or other attendant 
expenses. It may safely be said that the addition of one-half to the 
present fund would at least double the efficiency of the Institution in 
carrying out its mission of the " increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." 

Relation to the National Museum.— It is, of course, fully understood 
that while the Smithsonian Institution is supported and administered 
at the expense of the Smithson endowment, the cost of carrymg on the 
National Museum is necessarily defrayed entirely by Congressional 
appropriations. Although the estimates presented by the Institution 
from time to time as desirable for the prosecution of the work have 
sometimes been reduced by the Congressional committees, there is no 
reason to complain of the feeling of Congress toward this interest, and it 
is confidently believed that as the plans in regard to the reorganization 
of the Museum in the new building are carried out a cordial support 
will be extended in the future. The appropriations requked for the 
maintenance of an establishment five times as great as the present one 
must necessarUy be largely increased, although not in proportion to its 
expansion. It is evident that to supply a building covering two and a 
half acres of ground with cases will require a large expenditure of money 
until they are completed. It is estimated that the cases needed will 
in a continuous line extend a mile and a half; and of course several 
years will be required for their proper construction. After this the cost 
of the Museum will be essentially that of mamtenance only, and bo 
reduced much below the figures for the fiscal year of 1881. 

BUILDINGS. 

Smithsonian Building.— The disastrous fire which destroyed a large 
portion of the roof and upper story of the Patent Office building in the 
summer of 1877, gave rise to the formation of a commission of govern- 
ment officers, consisting of Col. Thomas L. Casey, Mr. E. Clark, and Mr. 
J. G. Hill, to inspect all buildings of the government in the city, and to 
report what measures might be necessary to better secure them and 
their contents from injury by fire. The Smithsonian building was one 
of those carefully examined by the commission, and it was recommended 
that iron doors should be placed in the passage ways between certain 
rooms. An appropriation of $3,000 was subsequently made by Con- 
gress for this purpose; and a contract lor its execution was accordingly 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

eutered into with Mr. George L. Damon, of Boston. After considerable 
delay in the performance of this contract, the doors were delivered and 
in\t in place by Mr. Damon, to the entire satisfaction of the executive 
committee. This arrangement has greatly i)romoted the safety of the 
building and its contents from the risk of the spreading of any tires which 
might accidentally occur within its walls. A few additional changes 
are still desirable to give still further security to the public property 
placed in the charge of the Institution. 

For the purpose of facilitating the operations of the freight and trans- 
liortatiou department of the Institution, an elevator was constructed in 
1879, by which x>ackages could be carried from the southeastern entrance 
of the building, either to the basement floor below, or to the document 
room above. During 1880, the work has been completed by the erec- 
tion of a very substantial platform outside of the door, on which boxes 
can be conveniently delivered, or from which they can be shipped. 
From the rapidly increasmg amount of transportation connected with 
the natural history operations and the scientific exchanges, every facility 
in the handling of packages, by economizing labor, becomes an item 
of importance. 

For many years a i)umi) at the southeastern corner of the Smithsonian 
building has furnished a supply of excellent water, esteemed throughout 
the neighborhood. Although the introduction of the Potomac water 
naturally reduced considerably the demand u^jon this pump it was still 
constantly drawn upon by persons passing by, and was used for supply- 
ing the water-coolers in the building. A chemical and microscopic ex- 
amination of the water made during the summer showed that it was not 
entirely wholesome, in consequence as was thought, of the rotting of the 
inner wooden lining of the well. As a necessary step to the improve- 
ment of the sanitary condition of the water the original lining was 
replaced by one of brick. An iron pump was also substituted for the 
former wooden one. These repairs have been satisfactorily completed, 
and the water is now restored to its original quality. 

The protection of the buildings in charge of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and the preservation of the property contained therein require, of 
course, the vigilance of competent watchmen, both day and night. 
One of these, Mr. T. S. ISTelligar, a night watchman in the new 
museum building, has been made a special policeman by the Board of 
police. 

The situation of the Smithsonian building, so far to the south of the 
principal avenues of travel in Washington, renders it somewhat incon- 
^'enient of access, especially during inclement weather. At present 
the nearest street railways are those along Seventh street and along 
Twelfth street. The completion of the new building for the ac- 
commodation of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing of the 
Treasury Department, on South B street (at the corner of Four- 
teenth street), as also of the new National Museum building, on 



8 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the same street (near Ninth street), occasioning a large increase of travel 
in that direction, induced the i^roprietors of the so called " Belt Line" 
of railway to memorialize Congress for permission to change the track of 
their road by extending it down Fourteenth street to South B street, 
thence along South B street past the entrance to the National Museum, 
and thence south along Ninth street to Maryland avenue, along which 
it now passes. Congress has not yet taken any action on this memorial. 
Should that body authorize the proposed change of route it will add 
greatly to the convenience of all who are interested in that line of travel. 

Armory Building. — The Armory building is still in use as the deposi- 
tory of the Ceuteunial and other collectious belonging to the govern- 
ment. These articles will be removed to the new Museum during the 
present year, but as there is no j)rovision in this building for storage of 
boxes, packing materials, &c., a part of the Armory will always be re- 
quired for this purpose. It is also contemj)lated to use one of the halls 
or stories of the Armory for the storage of the large amount of property 
belonging to the United States Fish Commission, and the lower tloor 
may perhaps be occupied by aquaria, hatching apparatus, &g. 

Laboratory of Natural History. — The building erected as a laboratory 
of natural history and a photographic atelier in which to prepare speci- 
mens, illustrations, &c., for the Centennial Exhibition is still devoted to 
similar uses. A large number of photographs of tish, ethnologica, «&;c., 
have been made during the year by the artist of the Institutiou, Mr. 
T. W. Smillie. 

Mr. Josepli Palmer and his son have contiuued in this building the 
preparation of plaster casts of hsh, reptiles, and antiquities, and in 
another apartment these have been colored by the artist, Mr. A. Z. 
Shindler, the reproductions thus furnished being admirable fac-similes 
of the living or original objects, and attracting general commendation. 

Another large room occui)ied by Mr. Henry Marshall, the taxidermist, 
has mainly been devoted to the mounting of birds and mammals. 

In the new Museum building very commodious apartments have been 
assigned to the photographer and other artists, a large and well arranged 
sky-light has been i)rovided, and everything will be done by the 
Institution to secure the best possible results with all the apparatus 
and appliances obtainable. To obtain ample working rooms in case 
of an emergency, liowever, the tanks, dark-room, sky-light, &c., in the 
old building will be left undisturbed so that if necessary an extra force 
of photographers may be enabled to carry on their work. 

ROUTINE WORK OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Administration. — No change has been made in the officers and assist- 
ants of the Institution since the death of the late Secretary. Mr. Wil- 
liam J. Ehees, who has been chief clerk since June, 1853, still discharges 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. U 

the duties of executive officer with zeal, industry, and efficiency. Dur- 
ing the absence of the Secretary for several months in the year, when 
on duty connected with the United States Fish Commission, Mr. Ehees 
has been intrusted with the general administration of the business of 
the Institution ; having also the charge of publications, of financial de- 
tails, of the purchase of supplies, and of the supervision of clerks and 
employes, &c. The operations connected with the erection of the new 
Museum building have added greatly to the labors and responsibilities 
of the chief clerk, as well as of the other officers of the Institution. 

The correspondence is in charge of Mr. Daniel Leech, who has been 
in the Institution since 1867, and who has also acted as the secretary 
of the Is'ational Museum Building Commission. In both these relations 
his duties have been satisfactorily and creditably performed. 

The division of accounts has been in charge of Mr. Clarence B. Young, 
who entered the service of the Institution in 1870. To his duties as 
bookkeeper is added that of the charge of the jjhysical apparatus, the re- 
vision of proof, mathematical calculations, and other work requiring 
skill as a comi^uter, and knowledge of physics and technology 

To Mr. Wm. B. Taylor has been assigned the duty of preparing re- 
plies to correspondents involving scientific details in special depart- 
ments ; and he has also edited — under the direction of the special com- 
mittee of the Board of Eegents — the " Memorial Volume" in honor of 
Professor Henry. 

The management of the literary and scientific exchanges has been 
intrusted to Messrs. H. Diebitsch and Gr. H. Boehmer. The labor in 
this department has grown to large iDroportions, and is increasing with 
every year. 

The reception, entry, and transfer of books for the library are in 
charge of IMiss Jane A. Turner, whose faithful and intelligent services 
have frequently been recognized by my predecessor. 

The translation of French and German letters and various clerical 
duties have been well performed by Mrs. L. Stoerzer, while the filing of 
letters, indexing, making out receipts and orders for books, and various 
other duties have been assigned to Miss M. E. Griffin, Miss H. de C. 
Daingerfield, and Miss F. li. Schaeffer, who deserve commendation for 
their faithful services. 

It is also proper to mention the fidelity and efficiency in the subordi- 
nate duties assigned them of Messrs. Henry Gass and John S. Pollock. 
Mr. Solomon G. Brown, in charge of the transportation department, 
has discharged his duties satisfactorily. 

Correspondence. — A most imiDortant branch of Smithsonian opera- 
tions is that of correspondence, which expands from year to year in the 
direct ratio of the ever widening influence and increasing activity of 
the establishment. The principal consideration, however, in this de- 
partment, is not the amount but the continuity of the labor involved, 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 

since the rules of the Institution, while they insure a respectful reply 
to all communications demanding an answer, also require that each 
day's mail shall be attended to ou the day of its receipt, excepting where 
immediate action is impracticable. In other departments of the Insti- 
tution, as, for instance, that of publications, operations being more or 
less dependent upon outside agencies, there is sometimes a temporary 
respite ; but in the department of correspondence this is absolutely im- 
possible. 

As during the past three years, so during 1880, the number of com- 
munications has been very great in regard to anthropology, natural 
history, mineralogy, exchanges, employment, and publications. In re- 
gard to the first of these the immediate cause has been the unprecedented 
interest awakened in the subject of anthropology by the Smithsonian 
circular to which attention was called in the report of the Secretary 
for 1878. 

As the near completion and occupation of the new building for the 
National Museum has become generally known, hundreds of colleges, 
as well as proprietors of private collections, aware that the Institution 
has onl}' awaited the room requisite for the collation of its vast stores 
of sj)ecimens of natural history and the elimination of the duplicates 
previous to the distribution of the latter, have hastened to apply 
for a share in this material, the applications in almost every instance 
necessitating answer by reason of inquiries for information upon points 
not covered by any of the many printed circulars of the Institution. 

In mineralogy the number of applicants for information has largely 
increased during the past year. Supposed discoveries of mineral wealth 
still continue to be reported to the Institution, and specimens are for- 
warded for examination. Qualitative determinations only, however, are 
made gratuitously for individuals or for private or commercial purposes; 
but these generally suffice. In making known the results of mineral 
examinations the mineralogist i>resents his reports to the Secretary, on 
blanks prepared for the purpose. If approved the substance of his re- 
port is communicated by letter to the party submitting the specimens. 

The increased activity in the department of exchanges has not only 
continued, but this source of correspondence has during the past year 
l^roved far more productive of communications than was anticipated; 
and while the increase in the number of these has been marked, in very 
many instances their nature has been such as to call for a general review 
of the entire subject of exchanges, thus giving to the replies, ou the part 
of the Institution, the character more of memoirs than of letters. This 
feature of a large part of the exchange correspondence grew out of the 
action of the Paris Geographical Congress of 1875, in recommending to 
the nations of the world the establishment of a system for the inter- 
change of the official documents of their respective governments, which 
recommendation has recently been favorably acted upon by a number 
of governments, including the United States, which has designated the 
Smithsonian Institution as its agent in the premises. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

With reference to applications for employment, it may be said that 
while iu no single year of its history could the Institution claim en- 
tire exemption from the receipt of this class of communications, the 
year 1880 marks an epoch iu this respect as being the period in which 
the maximum number has claimed attention. Indeed, it is far from an 
exaggeration to saj' that written and oral applications of this kind 
have averaged half a dozen a day. As a majority of those in writing 
are iu the nature of requests through members of Congress, or other 
persons of prominence, a double answer frequently becomes necessary, 
one to the applicant and a second to the party through whom the claim 
is i)resented, the latter generally necessitating a detailed exj)lauation 
of the cause for the refusal. 

Lastly, an important part of the correspondence consists in the con- 
stantly increasing demands for the Smithsonian publications. With 
the increase of popular education throughout the land, and the springing 
up of new villages or towns, new public libraries and scientific societies 
are started, and very soon an application is made to the Smithsonian 
Institution for its publications. Applications of this kind are required 
to be entered on printed forms, and forwarded through the member of 
Congress representing the district in which the establishment is located, 
the member thus becoming sponsor for the library or society, so far 
as its existence and standing are concerned. 

The requests from iudividuals for publications, however, are not in- 
frequently difficult to deal with. In a country where all are equal it 
is sometimes difficult to satisfactorily explain why each individual 
cannot receive this or that publication gratis. It is often useless to 
state that the publications of the Institution are issued at the expense 
of Us own fund, and not at that of the general government; that this 
fund is so limited as to forbid the issuing of more than a comparatively 
small number of copies; that with these both hemispheres must be 
supplied ; that they are distributed free of expense to public libraries 
and colleges throughout the country on condition that they shall be 
accessible at all times to any who may desire to consult them ; that 
to individuals, other than specialists and contributors of material for 
the national collections, they are sold at about the cost of paper and 
printing ; or, that the desired memoir, or memoirs, will be cheerfully 
furnished in return for desirable objects for the National Museum. It 
might reasonably be supposed that a statement of this character would 
prove satisfactory ; but, unfortunately, this has not been our experience, 
such a result being the exception, not the rule, and shortly the demand 
is renewed through the member of Congress from the district in which 
the applicant resides. 

ASTRONOMICAL ANNOUNCEMENTS BY TELEG-RAPH. 

The existing arrangements for disseminating telegraphic announce- 
ments of astronomical discoveries, particularly between America and 



12 



REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Europe, were set forth in the last report. This Institution is the center 
of diffusion throughout our own country, of astronomical announce- 
ments received by telegraph from foreign countries, and in like manner 
acts as the medium of communication of American discoveries through 
Atlantic cables to the European observatories of Greenwich, Paris, 
Berlin, Vienna, and Pulkova; from which points the information is 
spread throughout their respective countries. Through the courtesy of 
various telegraph companies, the information received from abroad is 
transmitted to the principal observatories (some seventeen in number) 
throughout the United States, and also to the "Associated Press," free of 
charge. This generous concession to the urgent needs of astronomical 
research and progress is so valuable a boon to science that it should 
annually receive a grateful . and public acknowledgment. The com- 
panies to whose liberality we are thus indebted are: The Atlantic Cable 
Company, The United States Cable Company, The Pacific Cable Com- 
pany, The Western Union Telegraph Company. To these must be 
added the Northwestern Telegraph Comj^any, which gives gratuitous 
transmission of astronomical telegrams to Northfield, Minn. 

Prof. B. A. Gould, the eminent superintendent of the observatory of Cor- 
doba, of the Argentine Eepublic, when making a visit lately to the United 
States on his way to Europe, had some conference with several leading 
astronomers respecting certain proposed improvements in the exchange 
of telegrams, and of the character of the abbreviations to be employed. 
These suggestions, presented to the Institution, were by it embodied in 
a circular, which was referred to the directors of the different observa- 
tories scattered over our country soliciting their opinion as to the 
desirability of the changes proposed. Dr. C. H. P. Peters, of the 
observatory at Clinton, N. Y., to whom the original suggestion of tele- 
graphic announcement is mainly due, was particularly desired to give 
the subject his consideration. When the various responses to these cir- 
culars of inquiry are received, it is intended to have them carefully con- 
sidered by a commission of astronomers, and the formulas which api^ear 
to meet the general approval will be finally adopted as the uniform and 
permanent method of designation. 

The announcements of astronomical discoveries made during the -past 
year are as follows : 

List of minor planets discovered in 1880. 



No. 


Name. 


Date. 


Discoverer. 


Discov- 
erer's No. 


Observatoi y. 


919, 




Feb. 6 
Feb. 17 
Mar. 1 
Apr. 7 
Apr. 10 
Aug. 30 
Sept. 4 
Sept, 30 


Palisa 


2.5th. 
41st. 
20th. 
2ii(l. 
2Gth. 
4th. 
27th. 
27th. 


Pol a 


913 


Lilaja 


Peteis 




914 




Palisa 

Kuorre 

Palisa 


Pola 


215 
910 


(Enone 


Berlin. 
Pola. 


917 




Coggia 

Palisa ..... 




918 




Pola. 


919 




Palisa . . . 


Pola. 











REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

List of comets observed in 1880. 



13 



Ko. 



A.. 
B.. 
C .. 
D.. 
E.. 
F -. 



Name. 



Comet I 

Comet II 

Faye's comet ... 

Comet IV 

Comet (1869, III) 
Comet V 



Date. 


Feb. 


1 


Apr. 


6 


Aug. 


2 


Sept. 


21) 


Oct. 


lU 


Dec. 


-- 



Discoverer. 



Gill 

J. M. Scliajberle 
A. A. Common.. 

Hartwig 

L. Swift 

Dr Pecliule 



Discov- 
erer's No. 



Observatory. 



Cape Town, Africa. 

Ann Arbor. 

Ealing, England. 

Strassbiirg. 

Warner Observatory. 

Copenhagen. 



An arrangement in regard to the exchange of telegrams of astro- 
nomical discoveries was proposed by Lord Lindsay in connection with 
the working of his private observatory of Dun Echt, in Scotland, and 
the Institution was invited to exchange therewith telegraphic commu- 
nications in regard to the discovery of comets and asteroids. After 
further conference with the director in charge of the observatory of 
Greenwich it was concluded that dispatches sent to the latter would 
answer all the purposes by simply providing for the promi^t repetition 
of these dispatclies from Greenwich to Dun Echt. 

EXCHANGES. 

International Exchanges. — The system of international exchanges which 
has been successfully prosecuted for thirty years may be regarded as 
having been inaugurated by this Institution, A method of exchange 
had indeed been carried on for some years previously by Mr. Alexander 
Yattemare, of Paris, France, but on essentially different principles. Mr. 
Vattemare's plan consisted in obtaining duplicate volumes and contri- 
butions from booksellers, literary and scientific societies, public libraries, 
and other sources, and then from the collected mass making to his 
various contributors returns, at liis own discretion, of what appeared to 
him a fair equivalent. Such a method of course presupposed a great 
familiarity with the actual possessions of the various bodies in corres- 
pondence, as well as of their needs ; and while undoubtedly beneficial in 
some cases, was likely to be entirely unsuccessful in others. 

The Smithsonian system consists substantially in offering to cor- 
respondents a safe and gratuitous channel of intercommunication, each 
being yesponsible to the other for the amount and character or value of 
the packages interchanged, the Institution assuming, between them, 
only the relation or function of carrier. It naturally hai)pens, however, 
not unfrequently, that the Institution is requested to designate suitable 
parties to whom publications of a particular character should be sent. 
Such a request is responded to, either by furnishing such lists of names 
or societies as may be supposed to be desirable, or by undertaking the 
actual assignment of such works as are submitted to its discretion, dur- 
ing the process of making up its own packages. 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Attention has frequently been called in previous reports to the steadily 
increasing expense attending this system of international exchanges. 
The cost of prosecuting various researches and investigations and the 
general expenses of the Institution being provided for, the residue of 
the income has usually been divided between the department of publica- 
tions and that of international exchanges. So long as the latter interest 
required the expenditure of but a few thousand dollars, a considerable 
amount was available for the former, and the Institution w^as thus in a 
condition to publish many important memoirs -, but of late years the 
cost of maintaining the exchange system has increased at so rapid a 
rate (the expense for 1879 and 1880 having reached nearly $10,000 each 
year) that only an inadequate and continually decreasing balance iB 
available for the very important department of publication of original 
contributions to knowledge. 

The official designation of the Smithsonian Institution by the State 
Department, as the American agent of international exchange has 
naturally, with the rapid extension of its operations, also added con- 
siderably to the burden of expense. 

In view of these circumstances, a communication was addressed to 
the honorable Secretary of State, some months ago, by the Secretary of 
the Institution, asking that an application be made to Congress for a 
special appropriation toward defraying the expenses of international 
exchanges, to be disbursed under the direction of the State Department. 
This favor has been promised, and it is hoped that the desired relief 
will be granted. 

As a result of the convention already referred to as held in Paris a 
few years ago, for promoting international exchanges between the vari- 
ous governments of the world, the interest and exertions in this direc- 
tion are slowly extending. In addition to the commissions and bureaus 
of Belgium, France, Holland, and the Confedem oy of Switzerland, men- 
tioned in the last report as co-operating with the United States govern- 
ment, the Government of Brazil has since been included in the move- 
ment, and arrangements between it and the Institution have been sat- 
isfactorily adopted. A disposition to co-operate in this work has also 
been expressed by the Governments of Eussia and of Italy, but no defi- 
nite arrangements have as yet been concluded by them. 

The interchange of scientific publications between the United States 
and Cuba has for a number of years been efieoted through the agency 
of Prof. Felipe Poey, of the University of Havana; and to that emi- 
nent naturalist, for both the extent and the efficiency of his labors, 
this Institution is greatly indebted. As the packages transmitted have 
been addressed to Professor Poey, questions have constantly arisen as to 
the duties charged to the Institution, in addit ion to the other cost of the 
enterprise. As it was thought unjust that the Smithsonian fund should 
be taxed with the entire expenses of this interchange, in both directions, 
while the main benefits of the transactions were experienced by Cuba, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

the subject was referred to his excellency Seiior Dou Felipe Meiidez de 
Vigo, minister from Spain ; through whose courteous efforts, a very sat- 
isfactory arrangement has been effected, whereby the governor-general 
of Cuba, in his official capacity, takes charge of our packages and de- 
livers them to the University of Havana for distribution to their re- 
spective addresses. This arrungement constitutes in effect an additional 
link in the chain of international government agencies already referred to. 

The total number of establishments outside of the United States with 
which correspondence and excljange have been conducted amounts to 
2,002 — an increase of about 120 over the list of 1870. The number of 
i:>ackages received from Euro[)e for distribution in the United States 
during the jiast year amounted to G,G70 ; the number of packages from 
the United States received for transmission abroad has amounted to 
14,175 ; making an aggregate of 20,845 packages. 

The parcels received from Europe for distribution in America are gen- 
erally forwarded to their respective destinations in smaller bundles, or 
in paper wrappers. The parcels received for transmission to foreign 
countries are carefully j^acked in boxes. Of these, there were shipped 
during the past year 2C8; occupying a bulk of 1,97G cubic feet, and 
weighing 60,300 pounds. 

As heretofore, the Institution is greatly indebted to the lines of ocean 
steamers between the United States and other countries of the world ; 
and grateful acknowledgment is due particularly to the agents of the 
following companies for the continuation of their important favors in 
the free transmission of Smithsonian packages : Anchor Steamship Com- 
pany, Atlas Steamship Company, Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 
Cunard Steamship Company, Hamburg American Packet Company, 
Inman Steamship Company, Merchants' Line of Steamers, l^etherlands 
American Steam Navigation Company, New York and Brazil Steamship 
Company, New York and Mexico Steamship Company, North German 
Lloyds Steamship Company, Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Pacitic 
Steam Navigation Company, Panama Eailroad Company, Steamshii) 
Lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P., White Cross Line 
of Antwerji. 

The railroad companies connecting Washington and Baltimore and 
New York have also continued their favor of special rates of charges for 
freight. These are the Pennsylvania Eailroad, the Baltimore and Ohio 
Eailroad, and the Baltimore and Potomac Eailroad. 

Acknowledgments are also due to the foreign ministers and consuls 
of the various governments, for their assistance in taking charge of the 
packages intended for the countries which they respectively represent, 
and transmitting them with care to their destination. 

In connection with the establishment of definite relations between 
this Institution and the French commission of international exchanges 
(a branch of the department of the ministry of public instruction), the 
French Transatlantic Steamship Company has, through its agent, M. 



16 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Louis (le Bebian, very generously agreed to carry the packages of ex- 
cliauge both ways free of charge, thus relieving parties on either side 
from a considerable burden, and greatly facilitating these operations. 

statistics of exchanges during the last ten years. 





1871. 


1872. 


1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


Num'ber of boxes. 
Bulk in cubic feet. 
Weight lbs. 


108 

772 

28, 950 


179 

954 

26, 850 


196 

1,476 

44,236 


131 
933 

27, 990 


208 

1,503 

45, 300 


323 

2,261 

80, 750 


397 

2,779 

99, 250 


309 

2,160 

69. 220 


311 
2,177 
09, 975 


*2C8 

1,976 

60, 300 


Foreign institutions in correspondence icitli the Smithsonian Instit 
Africa 


tit ion. 

27 

112 

GO 

. G4 

2, 337 

2 


America 


Asia 


Australia 


Europe 


Polynesia 



\2, 602 



Comparative table of foreign institutions in correspondence ivith the Smithsonian Institution 

during the last ten years. 



1871. 


1872. 


1873. 


1874. 


1875. 


1876. 


1877. 


1878. 


1879. 


1880. 


1,937 


1,985 


2,145 


2,146 


2,207 


2,275 


2,330 


2,833 


2,481 


2,602 



Parcels received in 1880. 

For homo distribution 6, G70 

For distribution abroad 14, 175 

Total 20,845 

Government Document Exchange. — In addition to its general function of 
intermediary between the institutions of the Kew World and the Old, 
the Smithsonian Institution has been for some years the agent of the gov- 
ernment for the exchange of public documents and other official publi- 
cations, in the interest of the Library of Congress, and under tlie provi- 
sions of law. By act of Congress, fifty copies of all publications of the 
United States Government, whether ordered for the use of Congress or 
of the departments, are available for distribution, under the direction 
of the Joint Library Committee of the two Houses of Congress, to such 
foreign governments as agree to make a corresponding return. These 
returns, when received, are forwarded directly to the Library of Con- 

*In addition to tbe above there are 26 boxes ready for and awaiting shipment to 
Italy. 
tA detailed list will be found in the tables of statistics. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



17 



gress, without being entered on tlie records of this Institution. A 
detailed report in an appendix, gives all tlie information possessed un- 
der this head, including the aggregate of such distribution, the agencies 
through which it has been effected, and the parties interested in the 
exchange. 

List of governments in exchange with the Government of the United States, 
and to whom box "^" ^vas sent in 1880.* 



Argentine 


Confederation, 


Wiirtemberg. 


Queensland. 


Bavaria. 




Hayti. 


Saxony. 


Belgium. 




Japan. 


Spain. 


Brazil. 




Mexico. 


Sweden. 


Buenos Ayres. 


Netherlands. 


Switzerland. 


Canada. 




New South Wales. 


South Australia 


Cliile. 




New Zealand. 


Tasmania. 


Denmark. 




Norway. 


Turkey. 


France. 




Ontario (Canada). 


Venezuela. 


Germany. 




Portugal. 


Victoria. 


Greece. 




Prussia. 

DISTRIBUTION. 





Distrihution of Puhlications. — One of the operations of the Institution 
requiring constant attention and involving much labor and expense is 
that of distribution of publications. Aside from the sending of books 
and parcels through the great international exchange system there is a 
constant demand upon the institution for works it has published or those 
of a scientific character supposed to be at its disposal. These demands 
have become so numerous and are made by so many iiersous unknown to 
the officers, while the supply of books is so limited, that it became neces- 
sary to adopt a new rule in reference to distribution. Each applicant 
is now required to furnish evidence that he has contributed in some 
way to the library, museum, or collections of the Institution, and an ex- 
change is thus established, intended to supersede the former promiscu- 
ous method of bestowing a gift. It may be mentioned that latterly no 
lists have been kept of i)ersons entitled to receive from year to year the 
publications or even the reports of the Institution. It is necessary that 
direct apijlication be made by each jjerson for any work desired. 

Distribution of Specimens. — In view of the immense mass of material 
received at the National, IMuseum from the various government expedi- 
tions and the geological survey, as well as from the contributions of cor 
respondents, it will be readily understood that the duplicates have ac- 
cumulated very rapidly for many years and that the i^roper disposal of 
this surplus has occupied the attention of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Under the organic law the Institution is authorized to increase the 
collections of the National Museum by the exchange of duplicate speci- 

* For the Government of Italy 13 boxes (A N) are ready for shipment. 

S. Mis. 31 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

meus ; but only a small amount is conveniently disposed of in this man- 
ner, and by far the greater proportion is issued without any expecta- 
tion or desire for a return. The table appended to this Report will show 
what has been done up to date, as the distributions of the year 1880. 

The distributions indicated have represented a fair average for the 
year 1880. It is expected that in the year 1881, the amount will be 
vastly increased by the disposal of the Centennial collections, which 
have been so long stored in the Armory building, and which it is ex- 
pected will soon be transferred to the new Museum building, just com- 
pleted. These objects will be principally those relating to the mineral 
kingdom, the ores and building stones being in the largest proportion. 
Api)lications for collections from establishments not well known, are 
usually referred to the member of Congress in the district in which the 
applicant belongs, and an exjiression of opinion is invited as to the char- 
acter and standing of the same. 

As a general rule, no specimens are sent away without being authori- 
tatively and accurately labeled by an expert, so that they become stand- 
ards of reference. 

LIBRARY. 

The additions to the library of the Institution through its system of 
scientific exchanges, continue to be very large. During the past year, 
the books, i)amphlets, and charts received, have amounted to 8,570 
pieces ; a portion of which consists of parts or continuations of volumes, 
such as the current proceedings and transactions of learned societies, 
and the accessions to established scientific journals. Making due allow- 
ance for such fragmentary continuations, the whole number of complete 
volumes may be estimated at G,000 titles; of which by far the greater 
portion has been as usual transferred to the custody of the Library of 
•Congress, where they constitute an important section of the great 
national collection. 

In this statement is not included the large number of volumes received 
under the arrangement for international government exchanges, and 
-sent <lirectly to the Library of Congress without being opened or cata- 
logued .at the Institution. 

Statement of the bools, ma^js, and charts received by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tittion during the year 1880, and transferred to the Library of Con- 
gress. 

Tolumes : 

Octavo or smaller 806 

Quarto or larger , . . . . 337 

1,143 

Parts of volumes.: 

Octavo or smaller 2, 577 

Quarto or larger 2, 003 

5, 180 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo or smaller 1, G18 

Quarto or larger 477 

2, 095 

Maps and charts 153 

Total 8, 570 

The Institution has received from Mr. John T. Fisk, president of the 
American Industrial Deputation, at Puebla, Mexico, through his excel- 
lency the Mexican minister, a very handsomely bound volume of small 
size, of Prayers and Devotions, in the Spanish language. The binding 
of this book is quite unique, the sides and back being covered with 
highly i^olished plates of IVIexican onyx, cemented upon a purple silk 
cover, which is exposed only in the groove forming the flexible joint be- 
tween the sides and the back. The front plate (four and a half inches 
long, by two and seven-eighths inches wide, and probably about three- 
sixteenths of an inch at its middle, gently rounding and thinning toward 
its edges) is of a delicate mottled pink color, and is embellished with orna- 
mental engraving filled in gilt. The corresponding plate forming the 
opposite cover is, of course, of exactly the same size ; but it is of a deli- 
cate mottled green color: its ornamentation is similar to that of the front 
side, though of a different design. The back of this curious volume is 
entirely covered with a finely polished piece of delicately mottled blue 
Mexican onyx, without ornament, nearly one inch in width, which has 
been laboriously and skillfully hollowed out to conform to the rounded 
back of the volume. On the front fly-leaf of the book the following in- 
scription is written : " The Very Eev, Monsignor Eulagio G, Gillou, do- 
mestic i^relate of the Pope, to the American Industrial Deputation, on 
its visit to this city, presents this small token of the mineral produce 
and industry of the State: it contains, besides, specimens of Mexican 
poetry; with the request that it be placed by its distinguished president, 
Mr. John Theo, Fisk, in some public institution of the United States 
for the inspection of its citizens and artisans," 

The Institution has also received, through the honorable Secretary of 
State (by official letter of the dexiartment dated December 3, 1880), 
from the international exhibition commission of Sydney (N. S, W.), 
Australia (under cover of a letter dated November 8, 1880, from R, W, 
Cameron, esq., one of the United States commissioners to said exhibi- 
tion), a specimen bronze medal of award of the said Sydney international 
exhibition of 1879, This medal, three inches in diameter and a quarter 
of an inch thick at its outer rim, presents a very fine specimen of die- 
sinking. On its obverse side, within a border bearing the legend of the 
exhibition, is represented in bold relief a female figure, standing, sur- 
rounded by emblems of the arts, supporting with her left hand a shield 
bearing the arms of the province, and extending with her right hand 
the victor's laurel wreath, while in the rear is shown in low relief the 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

exhibition building. On its reverse side an elaborate floral wreath com- 
prising native products forms the embellishment. 

By the transfer to the Library of Congress of the greater portion of 
the books belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, effected shortly 
after the disastrous tire of 18G5, the former library room was rendered 
available for other uses. This occupation for other more pressing re- 
quirements and purposes, necessarily prevented its further emjDloyment 
as a reading room. In view of the increasing number of emj)loyes con- 
nected with either the Smithsonian Institution, the Kational Museum, 
or the United States Fish Commission and Fishery Census Division, it 
was thought proper to make some provision by which some of the more 
interesting domestic and foreign periodicals received might be ren- 
dered easily accessible to them. Accordingly the corridor of the east 
range of the building has been fitted up as a reading room by the erec- 
tion of reading desks on which are placed the successive numbers of 
certain serials as they come to hand. These, of course, comprise but a 
very small portion of the journals received by the Institutionj a fuU 
list of which is given in the ai^pendix. 

RESEARCHES. 

An arrangement was made by the Institution a number of years ago for 
the compilation of a series of tables of ascertained altitudes in the United 
States, to be collected from data derived from State and county surveys, 
and from miscellaneous surveys made in the construction of railroads, 
wagon roads, &g.', the ultimate object being the preparation of a topo- 
graphic relief model of the country. This work was put in charge of 
Mr. Walter L. Nicholson, and a considerable amount of work was ac- 
complished towards the end in view. Mr. Nicholson having, however, 
been appointed topographer of the Post-Office Department, the con- 
stant occupation of his time in the duties of his position interfered 
with the prosecution of this work, so that he was unable to complete his 
report, and for some years nothing further has been accomplished. The 
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey having had committed to it 
by act of Congress the charge of conducting a system of triangulations 
to connect the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, has requested the use of this 
material collected by the Institution with reference to elevations ; but 
its transfer to that establishment has not yet been determined on. 

A subject which has of late years attracted considerable attention 
from physiologists and others is the peculiar affection of vision known 
as color-blindness.* This defect of chromatic sensibility exists in various 
degrees, and to a much larger extent than is generally supposed ; and as 
it does not appear to be usually accompanied with other optical imper- 
fection of the eyes, many of its subjects are even unconscious of their 
deficiency in this respect. Inasmuch as danger signals used at sea, upon 

* This abnormal condition of siglit is by many French writers characterized (not 
very appropriately) as "Daltonism." 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

coasts, on railroads, at draw- bridges, and elsewhere, are usually cliaracter- 
ized by special colors, it obviously becomes a matter of the greatest mo- 
ment to public safety that those immediately in charge of such signals, 
or appointed to observe them, should be known to be entirely free from 
any imperfection or disqualification in this direction. The subject has 
accordingly with justice assumed a character of great practical impor- 
tance. In the Smithsonian Eeport for 1877 the Institution published 
the translation of a paper by Prof. F. Holmgren, of Stockholm, in which 
the vital consequence of this subject in many of the vocations of life, 
and especially those connected with traveling and communication by 
sea and by land, were strongly pointed out; and to this memoir is un- 
doubtedly due in large degree the present appreciation of the subject. 
An edition of this work had been contemplated by Prof. B. Jay Jeffries, 
of Boston, who has himself conducted a very extended series of independ- 
ent researches in the same direction.* 

LABORATORY WORK. 

A large part of the time of the chemist of the Institution is occupied 
in determining the character of minerals sent to the Institution, with the 
request for information. Under a rule of the Institution, of which a copy 
is herewith submitted, the examination of minerals for private parties 
and private interests is confined to a simple qualitative examination, or, in 
other words, an indication of the more important elements contained 
therein. It is a comparatively easy matter to ascertain whether a cer- 
tain specimen contains gold, silver, lead, or other metal, and examina- 
tions of this kind are made daily. In all cases, however, where an act- 
ual chemical analysis or assay is required, it is only done at the request 
or in behalf of some branch of the government, or for some other i^ublic 
purpose ; in all other cases the applicant is referred to professional chem- 
ists for the investigation. It will, of course, be readily understood that 
if the Institution once establishes the precedent of making such assays 
and analyses, it would soon require the services of dozens of chemists, 
thus involving expense for which no adequate provision could be made, 
and interfering with the business of those who depend upon such work 
for a subsistence. 

In the report of the chemist, which is submitted in the Appendix, will 
be found a statement of the general character of the chemical work con- 
ducted during the year, among which have been quite a number of in- 

* Tho following memoirs on this interesting topic have been published by Professor 
Jeffries : 1. " Dangers from Color-Blindness in Railroad Employes and Pilots," Jan- 
uary, 1878, Boston. (From the Ninth Annual Report of the State Board of Health. ) 2. 
"Incurability of Congenital Color-Blindness," a memoir read at a meeting of the Suf- 
folk District Medical Society, February 23, 1878. (Printed in the Boston Medical and 
Surgical Journal March 28, 1878.) 3. "Color-Blindness." A lecture on color-blindness 
and its practical relations. (Delivered Ai^ril 11, 1878, before the Society of Arts, at 
the Institute of Technology, Boston.) 4. Paper " On Color-Blindness and its Dangers 
on the Sea." (Read before the United States Na,vaJ Institute at Annapolis, Md., 
March 3, 1880.) 



22 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

vestigations made for the goverument. Perhaps the most important of 
these was the inquiry into the so-called Tichenor i^rocess of reducing 
ores of gold by the use of one of the chlorides of gold. This investiga- 
tion was made at the special request of the Commissioner of Patents, 
and conducted at the exiDense of the Patent Office, and an elaborate re- 
l^ort transmitted to that officer. Very much public interest centered 
around the analysis, as the disposition of a large amount of money in 
the way of investment depended upon the decision. 

In addition to the chemical work actually performed in behalf of the 
government, the Institution is not unfrequently asked (especially by the 
Treasury Department) to nominate chemical exi^erts for special inquiries, 
a request always promptly complied with. 

In view of the large amount and variety of analytical investigations 
continually required by the government for the faithful and intelli- 
gent administration of several of its bureaus or departments, it is much 
to be desired that a first-class laboratory, under efficient direction, 
be established in official connection with some branch of the gov- 
ernment, where all chemical work of a i)ublic character or value can 
be thoroughly executed. Questions of grave importance, and subjects 
requiring elaborate and conscientious research, are constantly being 
presented in the revenue and other branches of the public service, which 
demand i)recise and authoritative determination for the satisfactory 
guidance of official agents, and which should be placed under the imme- 
diate sui)ervision of those (of whatever government bureau) charged 
with the responsibility and interested in the accurate execution of the 
work. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

In the summer of 1879, Mr. F. H. Gushing, the assistant in charge of 
the ethnological dei^artment of the museum, was granted leave of 
absence by the Institution for the purpose of accompanying a commis- 
sion detailed to carrj' on ethnological research and exploration among 
the Pueblo people of New Mexico. This expedition, in charge of Mr. 
James Stev^ensou, was very successful in its mission; collecting large 
numbers of specimens, an account of which was duly given in the Eeport 
of 1879. Mr. Gushing found the field of inquiry among the Indians so 
rich and extensive that he obtained permission to remain a longer time, 
and is still there. He has established himself with the Zuiii Pueblo, 
under the special protection of the chiefs, and has gained the confidence 
of the people to such a degree as to be permitted to attend aU their 
ceremonial observances, and make notes and even drawings. An inves- 
tigation into the traditions and history of the people, their manners and 
customs, their songs and dances, and their relationship to other tribes, 
has kept Mr. Gushing constantly occupied. A rich harvest of inter- 
esting discovery will undoubtedly result from his residence among these 
people. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

Mr. Gushing has also been enabled to obtain many interesting speci- 
mens of the handiwork of the Indians, both ancient and modern, and 
has visited some of the mines from which minerals valued by them as 
precious stones were obtained. In addition to the general inquiry into 
the history of the Indians, IMr. Gushing has been instructed to take the 
census ot the Zufii village, at the request of Major Powell. 

Br. F. M. Eudlich, the mineralogist of the Institution, received, in 
January last, leave of absence, for the purpose of visiting, as an agent 
of the Treasury Department, certain sugar-i^roducing islands of the 
West Indies and Demerara, with a view of investigating the mode of 
preparation of sugars, intended esi)ecially for exportation to the United 
States. During his stay in the West Indies, as also in South America, 
he made some interesting collections for the National Museum, among 
them specimens of curious aboriginal i)0ttery. 

Dr. Eudlich returned to Washington, after an absence of several 
months, but was occupied for some months in completing his report; 
receiving then an appointment in charge of certain mining operations 
in Arizona, he resigned his position in the National Museum. The work 
of the department of which Dr. Endlich had charge was then placed in 
the hands of Dr. F. W. Taylor of Washington, as will be seen by his 
report, given elsewhere. 

The services to natural science, of Gapt. Gharles Bendire, of the First 
Gavalry, have been ai^preciated for many years i)ast by scientiflc men, 
this officer, whose military record is understood to be entirely satisfac- 
tory, devoting his leisure time to collecting specimens in all branches 
of natural history and making very full notes in regard to the man- 
ners, habits, and peculiarities of various Indian tribes. His succes- 
sive assignments to military duty have taken him into the most 
inaccessible and leastrknown portions of the American Gontinent, in- 
cluding portions of Arizona, Galifornia, Oregon, &c., w^hich have been 
thoroughly explored by him. Several questions having arisen during 
the year in reference to the character of certain species of salmonidae 
in Oregon and Washington Territory, the acquisition of specimens of 
which was considered very desirable in the interest of fish culture and 
the fisheries, Gaptain Bendire expressed his willingness to undertake 
a journey to the localities involved, provided the necessary authority 
and orders could be obtained from the War Department. Application 
to General Sherman and to the Secretary of War resulted in the comple- 
tion of the necessary arrangements, by which Gaptain Bendire was 
instructed to prosecute some desired reconnoissauces and inquiries, in 
which he would have the necessary opportunities for natural history 
research. Under this arrangement he left Fort Walla Walla with a 
portion of his command, and after an interval of several months spent 
in the field, returned with rich results, consisting of ver3- comi)lete col- 
lections of the fishes of the livers and lakes of the interior of the 
country, and with other objects of natural history, which have been re- 



24 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ceived at the Institution and will shortly be made the subject of special 
investigation on the part of its specialists. 

Mr. F. A. Ober, whose important researches into the natural history 
and ethnology of numerous islands in the West Indies have been referred 
to in previous reports, made an expedition to that group of islands 
during the past summer, in connection with certain business enterprises. 
As before, he devoted such of his time as he could spare to scientific 
inquiry, and secured an excellent series of birds from several of the 
islands not previously visited. These have been duly received and 
entered in the catalogue of the Museum, making its series of West 
Indian birds by far the most complete of any in existence. It is pro- 
posed at no distant time to prepare a catalogue of the West Indian birds 
in the Kational Museum, with appropriate notes. 

Mr. Ober also secured important collections of reptiles, fishes, mammals, 
and objects of archaeology for the National Museum. 

In December, 1879, Prof. David S. Jordan, of the Indiana University, 
as assistant to the United States Fish Commission and special agent 
of the Census Department, was sent to the Pacific coast to investigate 
the fishes and fisheries of that region. Prof. Charles H. Gilbert, of the 
same institution, accompanied him as assistant. These gentlemen re- 
I)aired at once to San Diego, Cal., where they began work January 
1, 1880. Statistics were obtained at each of the fishing towns, and 
large collections of fishes were made in turn at San Diego, San Pedro, 
Santa Barbara, Monterey, Soquel, and San Francisco. The collection 
obtained in Monterey Bay was especially extensive, comprising nearly 
one hundred and fifty species. A stay of several weeks was made 
in San Francisco, after whicb, about May 1, Professors Jordan and 
Gilbert left for Astoria, Greg. ; here studies were made of the "spring 
rufis" of salmon, which, supplemented by Professor Gilbert's subse- 
quent studies of the "fall runs" in the various rivers, have thrown much 
light on this intricate subject. Later a visit was made to Puget Sound, 
and considerable collections were obtained at Seattle, Xeali Bay, Vic- 
toria, and New Westminster. On June 15, the party returned to Asto- 
ria and soon after to San Francisco. The chief ports south of San Fran- 
cisco were again visited and large collections made. 

About September 1, Professor Jordan returned eastward, stopping at 
Lake Tahoe, Utah Lake, and Burlington, Iowa, for the purpose of study- 
ing the fisheries of these regions. Professor Gilbert returned to the Co- 
lumbia and Puget Sound to investigate the fall runs of salmon. In Novem- 
ber he left San Francisco for Mazatlan, Panama, and Aspinwall, at each 
of Avhich places considerable time was spent and large collections made. 

The chief results of the expedition may be here briefly summarized. 

1. The collecti(m of statistics of the various fisheries along the coast. 

2. The discovery of about 50 species new to science on our Pacific 
coast, and of nearly as many more on the coasts of Mexico and Central 
America. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

3. The collection in large numbers of nearly every species known on 
our Pacific coast, about 265 in all. About 10,000 duplicates from this 
collection have been already distributed to the principal museums of 
the world. 

G. The solution of many of the problems relative to the life-history of 
the salmon. 

In April, 1880, Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, one of the assistants in the Mu- 
seum, was detailed to visit Alaska to collect fishery statistics, fishes, 
birds, and such other objects of interest as coald be obtained Through 
the courtesy of Capt. Carlile P. Patterson, Superintendent of the United 
States Coast and Geodetic Survey, and at the suggestion of Mr. W. H. 
Dall, who was in command of the vessel, Dr. Beau was permitted to ac- 
company the i)arty of the schooner Yukon, and was allowed all possible 
assistance and facilities for making collections. While Mr. Dall devoted 
his leisure more particularly to the dredging for invertebrates and bar- 
tering for native implements and ornaments, he also contributed largely 
to the collection of fish and other marine vertebrates. A^aluable aid was 
extended also by Capt. E. P. Herendeeu, Mr. Marcus Baker, Mr. Wm. 
E. j^oyes, Mr. H. W. McDonald, and Mr. Sylvanus Bailey. 

Dr. Beau was absent from April to the middle of November, and dur- 
ing that time visited Sitka, Port Althorp, Port Mulgrave, Cook's Inlet, 
Kodiak, the Shumagin Islands, Belkoffsky, Unalashka, Saint Paul Isl- 
and, Plover Bay (Siberia), Cape Lisburne, Icy Cape, Point Belcher, 
Eschscholtz Bay, Port Clarence, Big Diomede Island, and Saint Mathew 
Island. One hundred days were spent at sea, and seventy-eight days 
in the various ports named. When it is remembered that rain pre- 
vented work to some extent while in port, it will be seen that the sea- 
son of actual collecting was short ; yet the party succeeded in obtaining 
47 packages, including 32 boxes, 10 kegs, and 3 tank-boxes of natural 
history specimens. 

Upwards of 80 species of fish and 50 of birds were secared — some 
rare fishes being taken in considerable numbers with a view to their 
distribution to other museums. Of the fish Dr. Bean has already de- 
scribed 14 species as new to science — one of them representing a new 
genus. The chief value of the fish collection, however, lies in the fact of 
its including many hitherto doubtful or unknown Pallasian and Tilesian 
species. A full series of specimens was secured, which establishes the 
identity of the commercial cod and halibut of the Atlantic and Pacific 
Oceans. Not fewer than 14 species of fishes were collected that are 
common to both sides of Northern America. With the addition of this 
summer's results, the Museum is in possession of nearly all the known 
Alaskan fishes. Eurynorhynclius pygmccus was obtained in Plover Bay, 
and information of its occurrence at Point Barrow. Larus marinus was, 
for the first time, taken in Alaska. A very large series of the great 
Unalashkan song sparrow {Melospiza insignis Baird) was brought down 
and formed the basis of demonstrating a iierfect intergradation with 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the M. melodia. Actodromas acuminata was again captured at Port 
Clarence, farther north than ever before in Alaska. 

A single reptile — a toad caught by Miss Sallie Ball near Sitka — forms 
a part of the collection. 

Mr. Dall was fortunate in procuring a perfect skin and skeleton of the 
banded seal {Histriophoca equestris) in spite of the determination of its 
Eskimo captors to carry off at least a piece of the nose! A very large 
number of skulls of Eskimo dog was gathered at Plover Bay. A few 
good bones of fossil mammals were brought from Eschscholtz Bay. 

On the island of Unalashka many skulls and implements of prehistoric 
Aleuts were found in cliff burial-places. At Iliuliuk, Mr. Dall obtained a 
great prize in the skull of a prehistoric Aleut dog from a village-site 
near Ulakhta Head. Throughout the Territory large collections of 
implements of bone, ivory, stone, wood, copper, &c., were made, some 
of the Eskimo north of the Arctic Circle furnishing many really valu- 
able articles of ivory and stone. 

Dr. Bean is now preparing a detailed report upon the fishes j and this, 
in connection with some notes on the birds, and lists of the coleoptera, 
lichens, &c., will form material for a Bulletin of the Museum. 

Mr. H. H. Eusby, a well-known botanist of Xew Jersey, has been en- 
gaged for some time in investigatiug the botany, natural history, and 
archaeology of New Mexico, and it gave the Institution much j^leasure 
to be able to obtain for him certain facilities from the War Department, 
to aid him in his researches. His special attention has been given to 
botany, and he has already addressed to the Institution a number of 
interesting collections in this department. In archaeology his i)rinci- 
pal work has- been the investigation of a cave, near Silver City, New 
Mexico, filled with aboriginal relics, many of which he has succeeded in 
securing. Kone of these collections have, so far, come to handj but 
they will probably be received in the early part of 1881. Mr. Busby, 
with the true zeal of the explorer, finding his means inadequate to the 
carrying out of his i)lans, entered into certain business relations with 
parties in i*few Mexico, by means of which he earned enough to con- 
tinue his labors. 

An exploring trip to the remarkable natural cave at Luray, in Virginia, 
was made by a party from the Institution in the month of July last. An 
account of this visit is given in the General Appendix to this Report. 

Ever since the return of the schooner Florence from her exi)edition to 
Arctic America, Captain Howgate, of the Signal Office, has been en- 
deavoring to secure the interest of Congress in a second expedition ; 
and to that end he purchased in Scotland the steamer Gulnare, and had 
it brought to Washington and placed in a condition of thorough repair. 
Additional timbers were placed in the vessel and it was overhauled and 
placed in an effective condition. 

In connection with the same enterprise Congress passed a law author- 
izing her acceptance, by the Navy Department, and her equipment for 
the purpose, should she be considered seaworthy. The Secretary of 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

War was also authorized to make a detail of oflacers and men from the 
Army, to accompany the expedition. The plan of operations was to 
send the vessel to Lady Frankliu Bay, with a shore party, which was 
then to be landed and to be provided with houses on shore, the vessel 
herself returning to the United States for additional supplies. The War 
Department did its part, by detailing Lieutenant Doane and a number of 
men for the purpose in question, the general supervision being placed 
in charge of the Signal Office. A critical inspection of the vessel was 
made by the several bureaus of the if avy Department, and after a careful 
consideration she was declared to be not sufficiently reliable to be ac- 
cepted and the Secretary of the Navy declined to take the responsibility 
of forwarding her on the voyage. In this emergency Captain Howgate 
himself provisioned the vessel and furnished the necessary commander 
and crew, and she started on her journey via Newfoundland. Severe 
storms, however, were encountered and her boilers became so injured 
as to require repair in Newfoundland. She experienced numerous mis- 
haps, some of which greatly injured the vessel itself and rendered the 
further prosecution of the enterprise inexpedient. The vessel accord- 
ingly returned to Washington with the party, and the expedition was 
practically abandoned for the present. Dr. Pavy, the surgeon and 
naturalist of the expedition, and one other, however, remained in Green- 
land to carry on independent researches. 

Captain Howgate, with his usual appreciation of all branches of science, 
invited the Institution to furnish a collector to the expedition, promising 
to snpply the necessary quarters and subsistence. It was, however, 
found impossible, in the brief notice given, to secure the services of a 
competent person, and nothing was done beyond supplying some ap- 
paratus for deei)-sea research. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The activity ot the Institution is more marked and its influence more 
extended through its pubhcations than by any other of its agencies for 
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. However useful 
and important its researches, explorations and collections, these would 
be very limited in advantage to the public were it not for the dissemina- 
tion of the new truths discovered and the facts collected through the 
various classes of publications carried on by the establishment. These 
publications are growing in number, size, frequency of issue, and value 
every year, and more has been done in this way in 1880 than during 
anj' previous period. 

For many years past the Smithsonian Institution has been in the 
habit of having all its memoirs (both octavo and quarto) stereotyped, 
as thereby the number of copies of any memoir required for the use of 
the public could be conveniently regulated. The demand by the public 
(beyond the regular supply of everything to a definite number of insti- 
tutions) being very unequal, there was danger of printing either too 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 

many or too few. This induced my predecessor, many years ago, to 
order that everything published by the Institution shouhl either be elec- 
trotyped or stereotyped, and the first edition for miscellaneous distri- 
bution of 250 copies was generally printed. If more than this was 
required a second and a third edition of similar extent were ordered. 
In this way the expense of an investment in paper and printing, as 
well as an inconvenient and possibly dangerous accumulation of mate- 
rials in the building, was avoided ; and it has now become possible to 
keep down the stock to the minimum. The stereotype and electrotype 
plates have usually been kept in the basement of the building; but for 
the greater convenience of reference and transfer to the i)rinter when 
required, they have been arranged during the year in a large fire x)roof 
room in the upper stories of the south tower. 

By far the largest proportion of electrotype plates have been stored 
in Philadelphia in a portion of the building of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of that city, and under the charge of the printers of the Insti- 
tution, the T. K. Collins establishment. The Institution is under great 
obligations to the Academy for permission to occupy so much of its 
basement and for allowing, at the same time, free access to it by the 
agents of the Institution. 

Index to Smithsonian Publications. — In the constantly-increasing mass 
of serial publications the general titles of which express but indefinitely 
the character of their contents, the preparation of special indexes has 
become a matter of great importance; and within the last twenty years 
quite a number of such publications have been made; one of these, of 
the most importance, namely, the Index of Periodical Literature, by Mr. 
Henry Poole, has been of very great assistance to students and investi- 
gators, and a still more elaborate system of indexing has lately been 
carried out. An association of persons familiar with this kind of work 
has been formed for the purpose of continuing this series of indexes. 
Two propositions have been made to the Institution to prepare a full 
digest of all the papers it has published. 

Such a bibliography has, however, been in preparation by the Institu- 
tion for some time past. Mr. Boehmer, one of the assistants, has prepared 
a full alphabetical index to the subjects of ethnology and archaeology, 
contained in the Contributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions, and the Smithsonian Eeports; an abstract of which, published in 
the Report for 1879, will give some idea of its plan. The complete work 
will be printed as soon as funds are available for the purpose, and it 
will meet an acknowledged want. Similar indexes will, in time, bo 
furnished, relating to other branches of science. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. — During the year, Volume 
XXII of the quarto series of "Contributions" has been made up and 
published, consisting of independent memoirs ijreviously issued by the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 29 

Tnstitutiou. This volume comprises 544 pages of text, illustrated by 20 
plates and 474 wood-cuts ; and embraces the following subjects : 

Introduction, 16 pp.— 1st. Explorations of tlie Aboriginal Eemaius 
of Tennessee. By Joseph Jones, M.D. Published October, 1876. 4to., 
181 pp. 95 wood- cuts. 

2d. The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa in Guatemala. 
With, an account of Travels in Central America and on the Western 
Coast of South America. By S. Habel, M. D. Published February, 
1878. 4to., 94 p. 8 plates. 

3d. The Arch.-eological Collection of the United States National 
Museum, in charge of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D. 
C. By Charles Kau. Published August, 1876, 4to., 118 pp. 340 
wood-cuts. 

4th. The Palenque Tablet in the United States National Museum. 
Washington, D. C. By Charles Eau, Published November, 1879, 
4to,, 91 pp, 2 plates and 39 wood-cuts. 

5th. On the Eemains of Later Pre-Historic Man obtained from Caves 
in the Catherina Archipelago, Alaska Territory, and especially from 
the Caves of the Aleutian Islands. By W. H. ball. Published Janu- 
ary, 1876. 4to., 44 pp. 10 plates. 

Palenque Tablet— From the interest expressed by Mexican arch^olo- 
gists in the history of the Palenque Tablet, and in Dr. Eau's memoir on 
that subject, it was presumed that this paper would be translated and 
published by the National Museum of Mexico, under the charge of its 
eminent director, Senor Don Gumesindo Mendoza, and accordingly as 
an act of international courtesy it was determined to offer to him 
electrotype copies of the plates, as also a supply of phototype prints 
from the tablet itself. This proposal was at once thankfully accepted 
by Seuor Mendoza, and the preparation of the translation of the text 
promptly undertaken. Copies of the memoir in the Spanish version, 
giving the text and all the notes in full, have lately been received by 
the Institution, 

Physiological Research.— A memoir has been published during the 
past year on the subject of "Fever," considered physiologically as well 
as pathologically. The researches set forth in this work were under- 
taken by Dr. H. C, Wood, jr,, of Philadelphia, under the auspices of the 
Institution; and a notice of the character of the investigation, pre- 
pared by the author, was presented in the Eeport for 1878. The print- 
ing of the memoir was considerably delayed by the necessity of a criti- 
cal revision of the tables and calculations, which was intrusted to Mr. 
C. B. Young, of this Institution, and which has received from him careful 
and laborious attention. He also corrected all the proof-sheets. This 
memoir, forming No, 357 of the Smithsonian publications, comprises 266 
quarto pages, illustrated by 5 plates and 16 wood-cuts. The general 
conclusion arrived at, as summarized in the memoir, is that the cause 
of fever "is simply a state in which a depressing poison or a depress- 



30 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

ing peripheral irritation acts upon the uervous system which regulates 
the production and dissipation of animal heat"; and that the nature 
of fever is "a nutritive disturbance in which there is an elevation of 
the bodily temperature and also an increase of the production of heat 
by an increase of the chemical movements in the accumulated material 
of the body; this increase being sometimes sufficient, sometimes in- 
sufficient, to compensate for the loss of that heat which is derived di- 
rectly from the destruction of the surplus food in the body; very little 
or no food being taken in severe fever." 

It is the custom of the Institution to give to the author a certain 
number of copies of his memoirs, this varying with the extent and cost 
of production. The author is also invited to furnish a list of specialists 
particularly interested in the research covered by the memoir, whether 
resident at home or abroad, and to these, or as many as can conveniently 
be supplied, copies are sent free of cost, and the fact of this being done 
by the request of the author is stated. 

The author is also allowed to print as many additional copies as he 
thinks proper, at his own expense, and to dispose of them as he pleases, 
either by giving tbem away or selling them. The more extended the 
distribution of a memoir, the better is the principle of the Institution 
carried out, viz, that of the increase and diffusion of knowledge. 

Dr. Wood has availed himself of this opportunity by having 250 extra 
copies printed and placed on the market with the imprint of J. B. Lip- 
pincott, & Co., of Philadelphia. 

Meteorology. — The relationship of the Smithsonian Institution to 
the subject of American meteorology is well known, especially the 
fact that until the establishment of the Weather Bureau of the War 
Department the Institution had the entire burden of maintaining a series 
of observing stations throughout the country and of publishing the re- 
sults in a series of memoirs, which are accepted as of standard value by 
all meteorologists. When in 1871 its system of active work was trans- 
ferred to the Signal Office of the War Department the publication of 
digested results was not intermitted, but continued, so as to cover the 
entire period of activity up to the year in question. 

Among the meteorological monographs published by the Institution, 
that on the rainfall of the United- States prepared under the dn^ection of 
Mr. Charles A. Schott, of the United States Coast Survey, was one of the 
most important. This work, with its digested tables of rainfall and the 
series of rainfall maps, extending from the earliest records to the year 
18G6, was used for a number of years in determining the questions of 
general climatology and the relations of plants to altitude and locality, 
and to the extent and degree of reservoirs for storing water, «&c. 

In the interval between the completion of the first work to the trans- 
fer of the system many additional observations had been made, involv- 
ing the rectification of some of the general conclusions, and it was 
determined to publish a continuation of the work, down to 1878, em- 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

bodying at the same time a recast of the generalizations. The work 
was accordingly placed under the supervision of Mr. Schott, as- 
sisted by Mr. E. H. Courtenay, of the Coast Survey, and completed 
during the year. Arrangements were immediately made for publica- 
tion, including the construction of new base charts. The printing of the 
charts has been completed by Mr. Julius Bien and the text is in an ad- 
vanced stage of i)reparation, and will probably be ready in a few months. 

Among the important papers still on hand which have been accepted 
and are awaiting publication are the continuation of Professor Caswell's 
meteorological observations, of Providence, and the observations made 
by Mr. Sherman, while on board the schooner Florence as a member of 
Captain Howgate's polar expedition. 

The observations of Mr. Sherman present many new points in the 
climatology and physical condition of the arctic regions, and will be a 
valuable addition to the other papers of a similar character published 
by the Institution, as illustrating the works of Hayes, Kane, McClintock, 
and others. The delay in the publication of these works is due to the 
large amount of material on hand. It is hoped, however, that in the 
course of a year they may be sent to press. 

Archccology. — Reference has been made in previous reports to an ex- 
tremely interesting collection of West Indian antiquities, probably of 
Carib manufacture, presented by the late Mr. George Latimer to the 
National Museum. This collection embraced many new forms of much 
interest. The stone implements of this collection possessed many peculi- 
arities, for the most part not illustrated at all by those of the continent of 
North America ; and a memoir by Prof. O. T. Mason, published in the An- 
nual Report in 187G, illustrated hy suitable wood -cuts, has attracted great 
attention at home and abroad. Its dissemination has brought to light 
additional collections in the West India Islands, and arrangements have 
been made to obtain the use of some of these for i)ublication. 

Mr. Frederick A. Ober brought from Antigua a number of inter- 
esting objects, quite diiferent from those of JMr. Latimer ; and Mr. 
Guesde, of Guadaloupe, has communicated to the Institution a large num- 
ber of beautifully-executed drawings of full-sized specimens in his collec- 
tion, accompanied by detailed de criptious. Professor Mason has un- 
dertaken to compile a special memoir on Mr. Guesde's collection, to be 
illustrated by his drawings and published at an early date. 

The publication by the Smithsonian Institution, many years ago, of a 
memoir by Mr. Lewis H. Morgan, upon the terms of relationship and con- 
sanguinity employed by various nations of the world, led to the establish- 
ment of almost a new branch of philological and ethnological in vestiga- 
tion ; or at least placed it upon a substantial footing. At the time of the 
publication of the memoir there were few persons prepared to follow the 
reasoning of the author ,• but under its stimulus corresponding researches 
have been carried on in various parts of the world and have produced 
very good fruit. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Among such investigations was one by Mr. L. Fison, in regard to the 
aborigines of Australia, and an agreement was entered into with him 
by which the Institution was to publish it, uniform with Mr. Morgan's 
memoir. The number of manuscripts in hand waiting tor publication 
prevented Mr. Fison's article from going to press, and he finally was 
able to make arrangements at home for its appearance. The i^aper was 
accordingly withdrawn and transmitted to the author through Mr. Mor- 
gan. 

There is now a sufiicient number of the quarto memoirs completed to 
form another volume of the " Contributions," Volume XXIII ; and this 
will be issued early in the year 1881. It will probably comprise : 

1st. Lucern arise and their allies. By Henry James Clark. (130 pages, 
and 11 plates.) 

2d. On the geology of Lower Louisiana and the salt deposit on 
Petite Anse Island. By Eugene W. Hilgard. (34 pages, 2 plates and 
4 wood-cuts.) 

3d. Ou the Internal Structure of the Earth considered as aifecting 
the phenomena of Precession and Nutation. By J. G. Barnard. (16 
pages, and 2 wood-cuts.) 

4th. A classification and synoi)sis of the Trochilidae. By Daniel 
Giraud Elliot. (277 pages, and 127 wood-cuts.) 

5th. Fever : a Study in Morbid and Normal Physiology. By H. C. 
Wood. (266 pages, 5 plates and 16 wood-cuts.) 

Miscellaneous Collections. — Four A'olumes of articles, heretofore pub- 
lished, have been made i\]} and added to the octavo series of the 
"Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections" during the year. These form 
Volumes XVI, XVII, XVIII, and XIX, and are constituted as follows : 

The Sixteenth volume contains: 

1st. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. By George W. 
Tryon, jr. Part IV, Streponiatidie (American Melanians), 1873, 490 pp. 

2(1. Catalogue of the described Diptera of North America. By C. 
E. Osten-Sacken (second edition.) 1878. 324 pp. 

3d. The Toner lectures. Lecture VII. The nature of Eeparatory 
Inflamation in Arteries after Ligature, Acujjressure, and Torsion. By 
Edward O. Shakespeare, M. D., 1879, 74 pp. 

4th. Circular relative to Smithsonian Scientific and Literary Ex- 
changes, 1879, 2 pp. 

5th. Circular relative to Business Arrangements of the Smithsonian 
Institution, 1879, 7 pp. 

6th. List of described Species of Humming Birds. By Daniel Gi- 
raud Elliot, 1879, 22 pp. 

7th. List of the principal Scientific and Literary Institutions in the 
United States. May, 1879, 6 pp. 

8th. List of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution, July, 
1879, 18 pp. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

The Seventeenth volume consists of: 

The Smithsonian Institution: Documents relative to its origin and 
history : Edited by William J. Rhees, 1879, 1027 pp. 

The Eighteenth volume consists of: 

The Smithsonian Institution, Journals of the Board of Eegents, Re- 
ports of Committees, Statistics. &c. Edited by William J. Rhees, 1879, 
852 pp. 

The Xineteentli \o\\xmQ, contains: 

1st. Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Vol. I, 

1878, 521 pp. 

2d. Proceedings of the United States iSTational Museum. Vol. II, 

1879, 503 pp. 

Memoir of James Smithson. — It has long been the intention of the In- 
stitution to i)ubliah a memoir of its founder, and. from time to time ef- 
forts have been made to collect materials for this purpose. It is much 
to be regretted, however, that this work was not undertaken at an earlier 
date, while some of Smithson's contemporaries Avere living who could 
have imi>arted valuable information as to his peculiarities and charac- 
teristics. 

Mr. Rhees, Chief Clerk of the Institution, has at last supplied the 
want so long felt in the history of this establishment, and has made use 
of every known source of information in the j)reparation of the work in 
question. By extensive correspondence and advertisements in several 
of the leading English periodicals some facts of interest not hitherto 
known were secured, and the author was thus enabled to present a 
more extended notice of Smithson than was at first anticipated. 

The memoir under notice commences with a sketch of the ancestry of 
the Smithson family, gives an account of the education of James Smith- 
son at the Oxford University, where he graduated in 1786, describes his 
devotion to scientific pursuits, his love of adventure in the search for 
knowledge, recou^nts his achievements as a chemist and mineralogist, 
enumerates his published scientific works, and gives the testimonials to 
his worth and ability from the president of the Royal Society and 
others. 

An inventory of his personal effects is presented, and an account of 
the likenesses of Mr. Smithson known to be in existence and in the pos- 
session of the Institution. 

Some attention is paid to a consideration of the motives which probably 
actuated Smithson in bequeathing his fortune to the United States, and 
a resume is given of the intellectual condition of the period in which he 
lived, which is shown to have exhibited a remarkable spirit of scientific 
activity, and the formation at that time of some of the most important 
organizations for the advancement of science, education, and i)hilan- 
thropy. 

S. Mis. 31 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The promotion of knowledge was peculiarly a cliaracteristic of tlie 
period, and Smitbson was undoubtedly impressed with this idea. 

Full details of the will and afac simile of it are given. 

Mr,. Ehees then traces the steps taken by the United States Govc^rn- 
ment to secure the bequest, the various acts of Congress, the debates, 
resolutions, messages of Presidents, «S:c., in relation to the subject, and 
finally the reception, on the 29th of August, 183S, of £104,960 8s. Gd, 
which, converted into American gold, realized $508,318.46 as the Smith- 
son foundation. 

A recapitulation is next furnished of the legislation of Congress in 
relation to the disposition of the Smithson fund, and a brief abstract of 
the notable speeches made from time to time in which various plans 
for establishing the Smithsonian Institution were advocated. These 
speeches are given in full in the " Documents relative to the history of 
the Smithsonian Instttution," published in 1879; but in the iiresent vol- 
ume the narrative is continuous and the references to the names and locali- 
ties of the Senators and members of Congress more minute and explicit. 
In an appendix additional facts are given relative to the ftither of 
Smithson, the first Duke of Northumberland ; the half brother of Smith- 
son, Earl Percy, who commanded the British re- enforcements at the battle 
of Lexington, 177a 5 notices of some of Smithsou's i)apers; extracts from 
his writings : a catalogue of his library now deposited in the Smithso- 
nian Institution ; and notices of the city of Washington found in Smith- 
sou's books. 

The whole forms an octavo of 70 pages, with the following illustra- 
tions : 

Portrait of Smithson. Heliotype ; from an oil miniature by Johns. 
181G. 

Portrait of Smithson. Heliotype; from an oil painting. Cabinet 
size ; full-length figure, sitting, in the costume of an Oxford student. 
1786. 

Portrait of Smithson. Profile; engraved on steel; from a medallion. 

Tomb of Smithson, at Genoa, Ital3\ \Yood-engraving; from a recent 
photograph. 

Fac simile of Smithson's visiting card, and of his dinner invitation 
card. 

Silhouette portrait of Henry James Hungerford, nephew of Smithson. 

Fac simile of Smithson's will. Two sheets, of four quarto pages. 

Portrait of Smithson's father, Sir Hugh Smithson. From an engrav- 
ing belonging to James Smithson. 

JS^orth view of the Smithsonian Institution building at Washington. 

The Memorial Volume in honor of the late Professor Henry, author- 
ized to be published by Congress, thougli somewhat delayed, has been 
comi)leted, and is now practically ready for distribution. It forms a 
handsome octavo book of 528 pages, of which the main subject-matter 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

is divided into tliree parts. A brief introduction of 4 pages presents 
tlie proceedings of Congress in relation to the holding of memorial serv- 
ices in the hall of the House of Eepresentatives, and also in relation to 
the i:>riuting of the same, together with such other testimonials of respect 
as the Eegents might deem congruous with the object of the work. Part 
first embraces the primary i)roceedings more immediately connected 
with the obsequies, commencing appropriately with the reproduction 
of the announcement of the death of Joseph Henry, by the Chancellor, 
Chief Justice Waite, issued on the day follovviug that melancholy event, 
and addressed as a formal or official obituary notice to all the cor- 
respondents of the Institution, in our own country or abroad, followed 
by an account of the proceedings of the Board of Regeuts on the occa- 
sion of the iuueral services, with the sermon of the Eev. Samuel S. 
Mitchell, and of the steps taken by the Regents on the day following to 
obtain a i)ublic commemoration. Part second comprises an a(tcount of 
the memorial services at the Capitol, presided over by the Vice-Presi- 
dent, taken from the Congressional liecord, and consisting of an open- 
ing prayer by President McCosh of Princeton, addresses by Senators 
Hamlin and Withers, Eepresentatives Garfield and Cox, Professors 
Gray of Cambridge and Rogers of Boston, and by General Sherman, 
the reading of telegrams by Eeprescntativc Clj'mer, and a closing prayer 
by the Chaplain of the Senate, Eev. Br. Suuderland. Part tliird com- 
prises proceedings by, and addresses before, various bodies with which 
Proli?ssor Henry had been promineutly connected. The volume con- 
cludes with an appendix of 4 pages, recounting the proceedings of 
Congress with reference to the erection on the Smithsonian grounds of 
a statue of Joseph Henry. The whole is followed by a general index of 
12 Images. 

Digest of Atomic Weights. — Among the Miscellaneous Collections a 
carefully-prei)ared digest of "Atomic Weights," by George P. Becker, 
of California, has been i)ublished during the past year, constituting No. 
358 of the Smithsonian series. This work, comprising 150 octavo pages, 
consists of a collection of all the determinations of the atomic weights 
of the chemical elements heretofore made. The elements are alphabet- 
ically arranged, with critical notices under each, and the authorities for 
varying determinations, together with precise citations to the jiublica- 
tions or records, are fully given. The whole is accompanied with a full 
index of the journals and other publications, both foreign and domestic, 
which have been laid under contribution ; and a second index gives an 
alphabetical list of the authors of atomic weight determinations. The 
work evinces a i)ains-taking diligence in collecting from every available 
source (in whatever language) the iuformation desired ; and it will prove 
a valuable work of reference to both the theoretical and the i)i'a(;tical 
chemist. 

This publication is in continuation of a line of scientific manuals on 
the " Constants of Nature," ijrojected by the Institution, and may be 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

regarded as forming Volume IV of the series thus far attempted: 
Volume I being tables of the Specific Gravities of bodies, and also of 
their Boiling and Melting Points ; Volume II, tables of the Specific Heats 
of bodies ; and Volume III, tables of Heat Expansion of bodies. All 
three volumes were compiled by Prof. F. W. Clarke of the University of 
Cincinnati. 

The Toner Lectures. — On the 13th of April, 1872, a deed of conveyance 
of several ijieces of property in Washington, with money and other 
securities amounting in value to $3,000, was made by Dr. Joseph M. 
Toner, of this city, to five trustees, instituting the Toner lectures, and 
establishing a permanent and increasing fund for their support and con- 
tinuance annually. 

The trustees named in the deed were the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution (then Prof. Joseph Henry), the Surgeon-General of the United 
States Army (then J. K. Barnes, M. D.), the Surgeon- General of the 
United States Navy (then J. M. Foltz, M. D.), the president of the Med- 
ical Society of the District of Columbia (then Grafton Tyler, M, D.). 

The interest of this fund was set apart to be api)lied for annual 
memoirs or essays relative to some branch of medical science, each to 
contain some new truth fully established by experiment or observation ; 
DO such memoir or lecture to be given to the world under the name of 
the "Toner Lectures" without having first been critically examined and 
approved by competent persons selected by the trustees. 

In accordance with this trust j arrangements were made for the deliv- 
ery of annual lectures on subjects relative to medical science, and the 
Smithsonian Institution undertook their publication in its series of Mis- 
cellaneous Collections. The following is a list of the lectures published 
up to 1880, and already described in previous reports: I. On the 
Structure of Cancerous Tumors and the Mode in which adja^cent parts 
are invaded. By Dr. J. J. Woodward. Published November, 1873,44 
pp., 8vo. II. Dual Character of the Brain. By Dr. C. E. Brown-Se- 
quard. Published January, 1877, 25 pp., 8vo. III. Strain and Over- 
Action of the Heart. By Dr. J. M. Da Costa. Published August, 1874, 
32 i)p., 8vo. IV. A Study of the Nature and Mechanism of Fever. By 
Dr. Horatio C. Wood. Published February, 1875, 48 pp., 8vo. V. On 
the Surgical Complications and Sequels of Continued Fevers. By Dr. 
William W. Keen. Published April 1877, 72 pp., 8vo. VI. On Subcu- 
taneous Surgery : Its principles, and its recent extension in Practice. 
By William Adams, M. D., F. E. C. S. Published May, 1877, 15 pp., 
8vo. VII. The Nature of Eeparatory Intlamation in Arteries after Lig- 
ature, Acupressure, and Torsion. By Dr. Edward O. Shakespeare. Pub- 
lished April, 1870, 71 pp., 8vo. And lastly, during the past year : VIII. 
Suggestions for the Sanitary Drainage of Washington City. By George 
E. Waring, jr. Published June, 1880, 23 pp., 8vo. 

This last lecture forms No. 349 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col- 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

lections, and discusses a subject of special and practical importance to 
the residents of this city. 

The health and comfort of the Capital of the nation is a matter of so 
general interest that its hygienic conditions deserve careful study and 
consideration. Very difficult problems are presented to the sanitary 
engineer by the topography of the city and the river frontage on a large 
area of flat land. The drainage of so large and so populous a city is 
one of the first subjects requiring the atteution of the local authorities 
and of Congressional action. Mr. Waring having had long experience 
and much distinction in investigation of such topics, was, therefore, in- 
cited by the trustees of the Toner fund to make a thorough examination 
of the city and District, and requested to make suggestions for the im- 
provement of their drainage. 

Mr. Waring in his lecture presents Holland as furnisliing a suitable 
example for imitation in regard to the reclamation of low areas. In 
that country about 4,000 acres have been reclaimed annually, while in 
Washington the improvement of not more than 2,500 is required. lie rec- 
ommends strongly the adoption of the Dutch method of constructing de- 
fenses, embankments, and bulk -heads, leaving the inclosed ground at its 
present level, and to drain it by artificial power to a sufficient depth to se- 
cure the same result as to dryness that would be secured by the filling it 
with earth. This would substitute a dry and pleasant meadow for the 
present noisome mud flats, would be economical, simx)le, and i^ractically 
equivalent to raising the whole city six or eight feet above its present 
level, and give it high and dry ground to the shore of a clear running 
stream on each side. 

oSText to bringing the flats about the city into a proper condition, the 
drying of the soil of those parts now subject to saturation is considered 
by the author, and for the latter purpose he recommends that the damp 
lands should be drained by an independent system of pipes, entirely 
disconnected, except at their outlets, with the sewer system. 

The sewerage of the city is next considered, and the use of the same 
drains for the streets and for houses is condemned as very objection- 
able. It is urged as of prime necessity that every foot of the sewers 
with which habitations are connected should be at all times free from 
deposits of organic raatter. 

The best size of sewer-pipes i« fully discussed, and the conclusion 
stated that large ones should be restricted to the removal of storm- water 
only, and small ones used for house drainage. 

A radical and almost universal improvement of the interior drainage 
of houses is demanded, the defective house-drains being a far more im- 
portant factor in the production of disease than defective sewers. By 
the official statement, the deaths in the District in 1879 from diseases 
which are believed to be very materially afl'ected by bad drainage, either 
by soil-moisture or by fdth, amounted to just about one-half of the total 
mortality. The author believes that five hundred persons annually die 



38 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

within the District of Columbia because of the defective condition of 
the houses in which they live. 

The main features of a comprehensive scheme adequate to the im- 
provement required are stated by Mr. Waring* to be — 

1. The flats and marshes to be reclaimed by embanking and pumping. 

2. The discharge of the lateral streams and of storm-water sewers to 
be carried beyond these defenses and delivered into the main channels 
of the river. 

3. The complete uuderdraining or subsoil drainage of the site of the 
city. 

4. The separate removal of the foul drainage. 

5. The abolition of privy vaults and cesspools and the complete 
reformation of the interior drainage of houses. 

Fhysical Tables. — Among the earliest publications of the Institution, 
one now exhausted, but which has ever since been in great demand both 
at home and abroad, is the very full series of meteorological and phj^s- 
ical tables prepared by Prof. Arnold Guyot. This work (No. 31 on our 
list), published in 18.52, constitutes the principal portion of the first 
volume of the Smitlisonian Miscellaneous Collections, and is universally 
recognized as a standard work of reference on the subjects to which it 
is devoted. 

The expansion of certain branches of i^hysical inquiry has made some 
sui)plementary tables desirable, and Professor Guyot was invited by 
my predecessor to prepare the material for a new series. The greater 
part of the work will of course be unchanged, and will be printed from 
the original electrotype plates. But some modification of certain tables, 
together with a number of new ones, has been arranged for. 

Professor Guyot's laborious duties at Princeton have interfered with 
the speedy completion of the new edition ; but the material is now 
nearly ready, and the additional pages will be put in type at an early 
day. 

Bulletins of the National Museum. — In addition to the regular series 
of publications printed entirely at the expense of the Smithsonian fund, 
several series prepared under the direction of the Institution have the 
expense of the printing of a small edition provided for from other sources. 
Stereotype i)lates of these issues are preserved, and are afterward in- 
cluded in tlie Miscellaneous Collections. These consist especially of the 
Bulletins and Proceedings of the ISTatioual Museum, the printing of which 
is authorized by the Department of the Interior, and paid for out of its 
fund. An edition of one thousand copies is published, of which one-half is 
distributed by the Department of the Interior and one-half by the Insti- 
tution. As the pages are stereotyped, the cost of additional copies is 
slight; and for the purpose of making sure that a sufficient number of 
sets will be accessible forever to students in all parts of the world, it has 
been considered expedient to print fifteen hundred additional copies of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

each as a portion of Ibe JMiscellaneous Collections. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the first edition can be made to special students and the 
minor societies that do not receive full series of Smithsonian publications. 

In this manner the various numbers of the Proceedings of the Na- 
tional Museum (forming- the volumes for 1878 and 1879) have been asso- 
ciated together to form the nineteenth volume of the Miscellaneous Col- 
lections as already indicated. A similar arrangement has been made 
in reference to the transactions of the Philosophical Society of Wash- 
ington, the first three volumes of which have been printed from tlie 
stereotype plates, and will probably form Volume XX of Miscellaneous 
Collections, to be issued early in 1881. 

The "Bulletins" of the Museum, as heretofore stated, are designed to 
furnish check-lists, system of classification, and descriptions of the 
natural history material on hand, for the purpose of illustrating the 
zoological and ethnological collections belonging to the U. S. National 
Museum, &c. 

The seventeenth Bulletin of the National Museum is on the zoological 
position of Texas, by E. D. Cope. The author considers the subject of 
the influence of environment on animal life, and the relation of the ne- 
arctic and neotropical faunaj at their point of junction. Studies into the 
zoology of Mexico have shown that the high plateau is populated by an 
animal life which differs from that of the coastward plains. From in- 
vestigations of the Batrachia and Ileptilia, which are incai^able of per- 
forming migrations, the line of demarkation between the great northern 
and southern realms is clearly' indicated. The general of South America 
advance northwards along the lower lands of Central America and 
Mexico to the mouth of the Eio Grande, which is about their northern 
boundary. On the other hand various genera of tlie southern regions of 
North America extend their range southward as far as the city of 
Mexico. 

The great State of Texas is the field where the boundaries of the va- 
rious genera is to be sought, since its fauna is of a most diversified 
character. The geology, topography, climate, and vegetation of this 
region are described, and the author then proceeds to a consideration of 
the distribution of its vertebrate animals in the following order : Mam- 
malia, Aves, Eeptilia, Batrachia, Pisces. 

The author concludes that Texas is to be placed within the nearctic 
realm, for although it possesses a number of genera which are common 
to this realm and the neotropical, there are mimerous genera which be- 
long to the forper exclusively and very few that belong to the latter 
alone. To display these relations lists are given side by side of genera 
whose geographical relations are in these three directions. 

The species are shown in four geographical groups, (1) those of the 
extreme southwest, (2) those of the plateaus, (3) those of the low coun- 
try, and (1) the east. 

The discussion is a valuable contribution to science, and the paper has 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

attracted marked attention from naturalists. It forms an octavo of 51 
pages. 

Bulletin No. 18 is a pamphlet of 278 pages, and is entitled "Exhibit of 
the fisheries and fish culture of the United States of America, made at 
Berlin in 1880, prepared under the direction of G. Brown Goode, deputy 
commissioner 



V 



This work is a catalogue of the articles brought together by the United 
States Fish Commission for exhibition at the International Fishery Ex- 
hibition held in Berlin in April, May, and June, 1880. An account of 
this exhibition and of the display made by the United States, with the 
awards to exhibitors, will be found in another place in this report. 

The bulletin or catalogue was used as the official list or guide to the 
American i)art of the exhibition, was republished in Berlin, translated 
into German, and on account of its extent, classification, detail, aud ac- 
curacy, elicited much praise. 

The work is arranged under six sections or heads, viz : 

A. Aquatic animals and plants of North America beneficial or in- 
jurious to man. 

B. Fishing-grounds of North America. 

C. Means of iDursuit and capture. 

D. Methods of preparation. 

E. Animal products and their applications. 

F. Kesearch, protection, and culture. 

Under each of these sections, subdivisions are made for the purpose 
of systematic classification. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — As stated in the reports for 
1878 and 1879, another series of i^ublications relating to the Museum 
has been introduced, designed to furnish to naturalists early announce- 
ments and descriptions of specimens received, particularly when of new 
species, together with such other matters of zoological interest as may 
be furnished by correspondents, to which series the title of " Proceed- 
ings of the National Museum " has been given. Of the articles published 
in the Proceedmgs for the year 1880, Mr. E. E-idgway has furnished the 
following : 

(1) Revisions of Nomenclature of certain North American Birds. This 
paper is an explanatory list of the names of North American birds 
which, in accordance with the recognized rules of nomenclature, have 
been changed or amended since the publication (in 1873) of the latest 
catalogue of the speciCvS — Coues's " Check List.'* Thirty-one specific or 
subspecific and twenty-five generic names are given as changed or 
amended since that date, from the form given in the above-named 
catalogue, while niueteen species given therein as geographical races or 
varieties are raised to full specific rank, seven others being reduced to 

. the rank of subspecies. 

(2) A Catalogue of the Birds of North America. — This catalogue is pre- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

pared witli the \' iew to supply the wide-spread demaud for a catalogue 
of North Americau birds which shall be complete up to date as r tgards 
the euumeratiou of species known to occur in North America, and at the 
same time includes a thorough though condensed digest, with references 
of the additions to the fauna and changes of nomenclature which have 
been made during the period of twenty-one years which has elapsed 
since the i)ublication of the last Smithsonian catalogue, in 1859. This 
ncAV catalogue, with numerous revisions and additions, is now (Decem- 
ber, 1880) being printed for publication in pamphlet form. 

(o) Catalogue of TrocMUdo} in the collection of the United States N'a- 
tional Museum. — This is a list of the species of humming birds contained 
in the National Collection, all the localities represented by the specimens 
being given with each species. The chief object of this list is to call at- 
tention to the desiderata, so that correspondents may be able to furnish 
species which are lacking to the collection, and thus render it more com- 
plete. 

Dr. Tarleton H. Bean has furnished among other papers : 

A list of European fishes in the collection of the United States National 
Museum. — About 350 nominal species are mentioned. As this list is in- 
tended simj)ly to facilitate exchanges with museums in Europe, the 
names under which the fishes were received are retained without refer- 
ence to our latest knowledge concerning the classification and specific 
identitj" of certain species. 

Other articles have been supplied by Messrs. S. T. Cattie, F. M. 
Endlich, S. Garman, C. n. Gilbert, T. Gill, G. B. Goode, O. P. Hay, 
A. Heilpriu, D. S. Jordan, G. N. Lawrence, W. N. Lockingtou, R. 
Eathbun, J. A. Eyder, R. Smith, J. J. Smith, J. G. Swan, A. E. Verrill, 
and C. A. White. 

Systematic Nomenclature. — In carrying out investigations in sj^stematic 
natural history a large part of the labor consists in determining the prior- 
ity of names, esi)ecially those of the genera employed or proposed j and 
for many years each inquirer was obliged to repeat the labors of others 
and to waste a vast amount of his time thereby. In 1840. the late Prof. 
Louis Agassiz j)repared a list of all names of genera that had been pro- 
posed in zoology, giving the dates, references to place of publication, and 
the groui) of the animal kingdom to which they belonged. No greater 
boon could have been extended to students than this compilation, 
which answered its purpose fully for a number of years. In 1873, Mr. 
Marschall prepared a supplement to the work of Professor A gassiz, 
which was also of very great moment. For many years past, however, 
no convenient digest has been available to cover more recent researches, 
as the spirit of scientific investigation is increasing in almost geomet- 
rical ratio, and the need of a new nomenclature has been apparent. 
Mr. S. H. Scudder, of Cambridge, Mass., has devoted a large portion of 
time lately to the preparation of a second sui)plemeut to Piofessor 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Agassiz's work, to include a general index to the whole ; and by this 
means, when published, the naturalist will be able to reduce the time 
and trouble of a given research enormously. Mr. Scudder oflered this 
memoir to the Smithsonian Institution for publication, but as its own 
funds were r( quired for the other memoirs previously in hand, it was 
accepted by the Department of the Interior, as a bulletin, and work 
begun upon it. Some hundreds of pages have alrtady been printed, 
and it is hoped that the whole will be completed in ihe course of 1881. 

Smithsonian Annual Report. — In consequence of the delay at the Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, referred to in the last report, the Eeport for 
1878 was not ready for distribution until March of the past year. Being 
the first issued after the death of the late Secretary of the Institution, 
Professor Henry, it was deemed proper to devote considerable of its space 
to a presentation of his life and scientific work. For this purpose, the 
biographical memoir i^repared, at the request of the Board of Eegents, by 
Dr. Asa Gray was appended to the Proceedings of the Board, while in 
the General Appendix were inserted the accounts of his researches on 
sound with reference to fog-signaling — his latest scientific work — re- 
printed from the several reports of the Light-House Board, in which they 
originally appeared, the whole being arranged in a connected article. 
With the same view, also, an article prepared bj' W. B. Taylor on Prof. 
Henry's connection with the telegrai)hwas inserted, presenting his, as 
yet, imperfectly recognized contributions to the scientific basis of that 
invention. 

The other articles in the Appendix are : Accounts of explorations in 
Greenland by L. Kumlien, and in the Caribbee Islands by F. A. Ober; 
a table of some physical constants by J. Le Conte — a contribution to the 
proposed collection of all the constants of Nature and Art; an account 
of some exi)eriments on the effect of irritation of a sensitive nerve by B. 
F. Lautenbach; trauvslations of Arago's biography of Condorcet, and of 
Favre's biographical notice of Agassiz; an abstract of the results of the 
researches on Fever, made, with the co-operation of the Institution, by 
Dr. H. C. Wood ; and a republication of a list of the apparatus in various 
institutions in the United States available for scientific research. The 
whole forms a volume of 575 pages with 12 illustrations. 

A number of ethnological articles, intended for this report, were un- 
avoidaI)ly thrown over to the next. 

The leport for 1879 was presented to Congress on the 10th of March, 
1880, and an edition of 15,500 copies were ordered, 2,500 for the 
use of the Senate, 6,000 for the use of the House of Kepresentatives, and 
7,000 for the Institution. It is again a matter of regret that the publi- 
cation of this work has been so long delayed. The amount of work or- 
dered to be done at the Public Printing Office is enormous and increases 
every year, while the facilities for doing it remain very much the same. 
As an evidence of the increase of work in this office, the Public Printer 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

states that the number of blanks printed during tlie fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1880, exceeded those printed during the previous year by 
25,000,000. The number of copies of unfinished works on December 1, 
1880, ordered by Congress was 922,107. It is absolutely impossible to 
satisfy all the requirements of the Departments and of Congress in a 
reasonable time, and unfortunately the Smithsouian report is delayed 
much beyond the desire and intention of the Institution. 

In this report an unusually large space of the Appendix is devoted 
to anthropology — all but four of the papers, in fact, coming under that 
head. This was due, in part, to the increased attention given to that 
branch of science within the past few years, and in part to the fact that 
the ethnological articles prepared for the report of 1878 were unavoid- 
ably thrown over to this. 

The full list of titles comprises : A study of the savage weapons at 
the Centennial Exhibition,by E. H. Knight; reports of American obser- 
vatories, prepared byE. S. Holden from the answers to the Smithsouian 
circular asking for information in regard to the equipment and opera- 
tions of the observatories in the United States; translations of Pisko's 
lecture on the jiresent fundamental principles of physics ; of Baumhauer's 
account of his proposed universal meteorograph for detached observa- 
tories ; and of Worsaae's statement of the measures taken for the pres- 
ervation of antiquities and national monuments in Denmark ; abstracts 
of replies to the Smithsouian archaeological circular; and a statement 
of the anthropological investigations pursued in 1879, both prepared by 
Otis T. Mason ; an Index to the Papers on Anthropology, published by 
the Smithsonian Institution from 1847 to 1878, prepared by George H. 
Boehmer, and the following papers on local ethnology and anthropology: 
The French Half-Breeds of the Northwest, by V. Havard ; Prehistoric 
Eemaius in Montana, between Fort Ellis and the Yellowstone Kiver, by 
P. W. Korris ; the Shoshonee or Snake Indian!^, their religion, super- 
stitions, and manners, by Albert G. Brackett ; Euins in White Eiver 
Canon, Pima County, Arizona, by E. T. Burr ; Mounds in Winnebago 
County, Wisconsin, by Thomas Armstrong; Mounds near Quincy, III., 
and in Wisconsin, by William Gilbert Anderson ; j^otes on some of 
the principal mounds in the Des Moines Valley, by Samuel B. Evans; 
Composition of ancient pottery, found near the mouth of Chequest 
Creek, at Pittsburg, on the Des Moines Eiver, by Eobert N. and Charles 
L. Dahlberg; Prehistoric evidences in Missouri, by G. C. Broadhead ; 
Mounds in Franklin County, Indiana, by Edgar E. Quick ; Mounds and 
earthworks of Eiish County, Indiana, by F. Jackman ; Primitive man- 
ufacture of spear and arrow points along the line of the Savannah 
Eiver, by Charles C. Jones, jr.; Mica beds in Alabama, by William 
Gesner; Mounds in Washington County, Mississippi, by James Hough; 
Mounds in Morehouse Parish, Louisiana, by Benjamin H. Brodnax; 
Wampum belts of the Six Nations, by W. M. Beauchamp ; Indian relics 
from Schoharie, N. Y., by Frank D. Andrews; Preliminary Explorations 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 

among Indian mounds in Soutliern Florida, by S. T. Walker ; Eeport on 
the sbell-heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida, by S. T, Walker; and Mounds on 
Gideon's farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin County, Minnesota, by Frank 
H. Nutter. 

The whole forms a volume of 631 pages, with 205 illustrations. 

Of the documents published annually by the United States Govern- 
ment, those of the Agricultural Department and of the Smithsonian 
Institution are most in demand, as furnishing general information, 
much sought after by various classes of the community. There is no 
person of general literary or scientific taste who does not find in the 
Smithsonian Reports something of interest, especially in the copious 
store of archaeological information and the statements of the present 
condition and progress of science. The demand for tne Smithsonian 
Reports has been responded to by the publication of quite large editions 
and the occasional reprints from the authorized stereotype plates. It 
has been found, however, impossible of late years to meet the demands 
in the increasing amount of interest manifested by the growing xwpula- 
tion of the United States ,• and although a liberal edition is published by 
Congress, of which about 0,500 have been assigned to the Institution 
for years, copies of the Report for 1877 are entirely exhausted. 

Fully realizing this fact. Senator Hamlin, a Regent of the Institution, 
introduced a resolution providing for the increase of the printing of the 
number of copies to 15,500, of which 7,000 were to be distributed to 
the Institution. This resolution became a law, and it is ho^jed that 
the demand for the volume for 1879 now about being delivered by the 
Public Printer will be met. 

The series of the stereotype plates of the volumes begins with 1862, 
and it is proposed to make application to Congress for the printing of a 
small edition of the volumes extending from that year to 1878, inclu- 
sive, so that sets can be furnished to the many new public libraries 
which have made their appearance within the last few years. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The reasons for asking Congress for a museum building of suitable 
magnitude, and the steps by which this end was accomplished, have been 
duly presented in the iireceding reports. I am happy to announce at 
the present time that the edifice has been substantially completed, and 
that preparations are being made to occupy it. In the accompanying 
report of the architect of the building commission all the necessary de- 
tails of the plan, cost, &c., will be found. 

The magnitude of the edifice, and the complexity of the organization 
necessary to fully occupy it, it is expected will require a considerable 
time, but it is hoped that the work will be complete by* the end of the 
year 1881, and that the establishment will thereafter be in full tide of 
success. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

As lias already been explained, the new museum is not intended 
simply for the exhibition of objects of natural history, the controlling- 
idea being rather that of an ethnological exhibit, especially to include 
illustrations of the applications of objects belonging to the animal, veg- 
etable, and mineral kingdoms, and the requirements or luxuries of man. 
To this end the collections made by the Smithsonian Institution aud the 
United States Fish Commission, for exhibition at the Centennial Expo- 
sition of 1S7G, and the Berlin International Fishery Exposition of ISSO, 
come admirabl}^ into play, aud constitute the basis of the material, which, 
however, has been largely increased from other sources. 

It is proposed to devote one-fourth of the space, about 25,000 square 
feet, to an illustration of the miueral resources, in the form of building 
stones, ores, combustibles, clays, pigments, &g. 

Another fourth of the building will be taken uj) by illustrations of 
the animal industries, with representatives of the originals, or i>laster 
or papier-mache casts, of the principal animals used for food or other 
purposes by man, together with all the various apparatus by which 
they are pursued, captured, and utilized ; then the results of the manip- 
ulation, and also illustrations of the methods by which animals ai'e pro- 
tected or multiplied; this confining itself principally to an exhibition in 
connection with the artificial i)roi)agation of fishes and other aquatic 
animals. 

A portion of the building will be filled by the display of othef special 
objects, including the materia medica, foods, paints, and dyes of all 
nations. 

In the purely ethnological collections, or such as relate to the savage 
or semi-civilized races of modern times, space will be provided for in 
this building, and a small area assigned to the exhibition of mounted 
mammals aud osteological specimens. Fuller details of arrangement 
will be reserved for the next report. 

The exi^ansion of the scope of the iSTational Museum of course in- 
volves an enlarged force, and the engagement of several specialists to 
take charge of their respective dcpartinents. This has been deferred 
until 1881. 

In view of the large number of cases required in this building — not 
less than one thousand in all — the selectiou of suitable jilaus and modes 
of construction has been a matter of great importance, and we have 
accordingly endeavored to obtain all possible information as to methods 
of arrangement in foreign aud home museums. Proi^ssor Agassiz has 
kindly supplied working drawings of the newer cases of the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology ; and the authorities of South Kensington and 
the new British Museum, as well as those of the Eoyal Museum of 
Dresden, and other establishments, have rendered similar facilities. 
Mr. G. Brown Goode, the curator of the museum, during the period of 
his action as commissioner to the Berlin International Fishery Exposi- 
tion, took occasion to visit all the i)rincipal museums in Germany, Italy, 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and Great Britain, and made himself familiar with the arrangements 
prevalent therein. The result has been to su^jply many imi)ortant ideas, 
which will be carried out in connection with the new National Museum 
at Washington. 

In the necessary reorganization of the whole force of the museum, in 
connection with the new departure, occasion was taken to reiterate and 
enforce the rule which is adopted in most public museums through- 
out the world, namely, that the officers connected with the museum 
shall make no collections of any kind whatever for themselves 
during the period of their connection with it. Although in most 
cases a mere matter of form, it has been thought well to make such 
a rule a condition of acceptance of a position and salary, as thereby 
preventing any misunderstanding and removing any danger of making 
an official position the means of promoting private interest. Persons 
in charge of a collection have many opportunities of securing speci- 
mens from visitors, who offer objects of more or less interest, and who 
are sometimes inclined to give them to the officer rather than to the 
coUeciion. 

Increase of the Museum. — The additions to the National Museum dur- 
ing the year 1880 have been fully up to the average, indeed scarcely 
inferior to those of any previous year, with the exception of that of the 
Centeufiial Exhibition at Philadelphia. The collections of marine 
animals, especially fishes and invertebrates from the Atlantic and Pacific 
coasts of the United States, far exceed in value and extent those ever 
before obtained. The most important sources of supply have been (1) 
the collections of the United States Fish Commission, made on the 
south coast of New England, and of the Gloucester fishermen, obtained 
for the most part oft" the eastern banks, and transmitted through the 
commission; (2) the collections made by Profs. D. S. Jordan and Charles 
H. Gilbert, of fishes and invetebrates, between San Diego and Paget 
Sounds ; (3) the collections of Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. William H. Dall 
in Alaskan w.iters of the North Pacific and in the Arctic Ocean ; (4) 
collections of marine animals made by Dr. White, Surgeon of the United 
States revenue steamer Corwin^ and by Captain Hooper commanding ; 
(5) the general ethnological and zoological collections of Mr. E. H. 
Nelson, of the United States Signal Service; (6) collection of arehoeo- 
logical objects made by Mr. James Stevenson, assisted by Mr. F. G. Gal- 
braith. While, however, these are the most noteworthy there are many 
others of great interest that will be referred to hereafter. The catalogue 
of donations accompanying the report will give fuller details on this 
subject, bearing in mind that no small number of contributions have 
been received without indications of their origin, so that it becomes impos- 
sible to make the proper acknowledgments to their contributors. 

The regions covered by these contributions relate almost exclusively 
to North America, a few collections only coming from Mexico or the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

West Indies ; and a still smaller number from the rest of the world. A 
number of very important series of fishes was obtained by Mr. Goode at 
the Berlin Fishery Exposition, but as they have not been unpacked and 
arranged, reference to them will be deferred until the next report. 

Alaska, as the least known portion of North America, and the one pre- 
senting the most numerous problems of interest, received special atten- 
tion during- the year, and the amount of material gained has been i)ro- 
portionally great. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson, observer of the signal ofiice at Saint Michaels, has 
continued his most important transmissions covering all branches of 
scientific inquiry; among these the most specially noteworthy is the 
collection of ethnological materials, illustrating the manners and customs 
of the living Esquimaux of the region, as well as much of prehistoric 
antiquity. Mr. Nelson has already sent in about G,(K)0 pieces of anthro- 
jiological matter. His collections of mammals, birds, &c., have been 
of very great Importance. 

Under orders from Captain Patterson, of the Coast and Geodetic Sur- 
vey, Mr. Dall, assistant of the Coast Surv^ey, made a second visit to the 
Alaskan seas in the schooner Yulcon^ originally built under his direction 
for the service. By permission of Captain Patterson, seconded bj^ the 
invitation of Mr. Dall, Dr. T. H. Beau was detailed to accompany the 
expedition for the purpose of investigating especially the fish and fish 
eries of the northern waters. 

The vessel left San Francisco in April, 1880, and touching at various 
points passed into the Arctic Ocean, where quite an extended cruise 
was ijrosecuted in the interest of the survey. It returned to San Fran- 
cisco in November, 1880, and the collections of specimens, in forty-five 
packages, were received not long after in Washington. These embrace 
very large numbers of ethnological and archaeological objects, speci- 
mens of birds, fishes, invertebrates, and other articles of great interest, 
to some of which further reference will be made. 

No collections were received this year from Mr. Lucien Turner, super- 
intendent of the volunteer stations of the Signal Service of the Aleu- 
tian Islands. Large gatherings, however, have been made by him 
which will be due during the year 1881. 

Mr. James G. Swan, of Neah Bay, Puget Sound, has continued his 
valuable contributions to the National Museum, which have now ex- 
tended over a period of many years. Being especially interested in 
ethnology, specimens belonging to that branch were particularly at- 
tended to, while many fishes also have been forwarded. • 

Commander L. A. Beardslee, of the Jamestown, stationed at Sitka, 
Alaska, has also made many contributions of birds and ethnological 
objects. 

A most important and extended exploration of the Pacific coast was 
that conducted by Prof. D. S. Jordan, assisted by Charles H. Gilbert. 
Professor Jordan was detailed by Mr. Goode, in charge of the fishery 



48 REPORT OF THK SECRETARY. 

brancli of the census of 1880, to obtain all the procurable information 
in regard to fishery of the western coast; and leaving Washington in 
December, 1879, after spending some time in San Francisco he proceeded 
to San Diego and thence by successive stages to Puget Sound, his work 
there overlapping and uniting with that of JMr. Swan. In this work he 
embraced the opportunity of making extensive collections of alcoholic 
specimens, of which no less than G5 large cans were transmitted. These 
contain about 2G0 species of fishes, a number of them new to science, 
and for the most part in sufficient numbers to supply many institutions 
with duplicates, and to transmit desirable ex(;hanges abroad. 

The revenue steamer Gorwin, on her usual cruise in the seas of Northern 
Alaska, during 1879, was accompanied by Dr. R. White, of the Marine 
Hospital Service, and a trained, ardent naturalist. Many important col- 
lections were made by Dr. White, especially of seals, including many 
foetuses, birds, and fishes. His specimens were received in the early 
part of the year, and submitted for examination to various experts. I 
regret extremely to have to report the untimely death of Dr. White, 
partly from exposure in the service. In a second cruise of the Concin 
in theaSTorth Pacific and Arctic Ocean, in 1880, Cai)tain Hooi)er made 
another collection of great interest, including a series of fossil bones from 
Kotzebue Sound. 

Mr. Belding, of Stockton, Oal., has furnished some interesting objects 
frotn the interior of the State. The most important contributions, how- 
ever, from tlie inland portion of the Pacific region have been those 
supplied by Capt. Charles Bendire, of the First United States Cavalry, 
an officer the value of whose services in the develojjment of a knowledge 
of the natural history of the West can scarcely be overestimated. For 
many years, while statiooed at military jiosts, he has been occupied in 
securing eggs, nests, and birds, and other objects, and placing the infor- 
mation and material thus gained in tl^e bands of correspondents and 
scientific specialists throughout the country. This service to science has 
not involved any interference with his duties as an officer, his military 
record being a brilliant one. Some months of the year 1880 were occu- 
pied by Captain Bendire in the investigations of certain vexed questions 
connected with the salmonidte of Oregon and Washington Territory. 
Leaving with a small party of men he visited numerous localities and 
brought in a series of fishes, which, when fully examined, will enable us 
to solve many problems in regard to them. JMany other specimens, as 
birds, «&c., were obtained by Captain Bendire and transmitted to Wash- 
ington. 

Arizona has been represented by collections of living reptiles, fur- 
nished by Dr. Corson and Dr. Moran, of the United States Army, as 
also by a series of plants from Colonel Burr. 

The contributions from ]S"ew Mexico have been extremely important, 
consisting, first, of a series, in 1879, of specimens gathered by Mr. James 
Stevenson, with the assistance of Mr. Frank H. Cushing; and, secondly, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

of a series gathered by Mr. Stevenson in 1880, assisted by Mr. Galbraith. 
These exj)lorations were under the immediate direction of Maj. J. W. 
Powell, in charge of the Smithsonian Bureau of Ethnology ; their special 
object being the acquisition of a complete series of objects illustrating 
the manners and customs of the })ueblo towns of New Mexico and Ari- 
zona. The investigation was carried from village to village, and about 
one-half of the articles have been thoroughly worked up. The collection 
embraces an immense quantity of pottery, of stone implements, dresses, or- 
naments, &c. Mr. Hillers, a competent photographer, accompanied both 
expeditions and obtained a large number of photographs, as also the 
measurements of various Indian towns, both occupied and abandoned, 
to serve as materials for a series of models. 

Br. J. 0. Merrill, of the United States Army, has sent in a valuable 
general collection from Fort Shaw and Montana. 

^Ir. Charles Eusby has also sent in some rare mammals from Wyoming 
Territory. 

The collections from Florida have been very extensive and valuable. 
These consist, in jiart, of large numbers of fishes, furnished by Mr. Silas 
Stearns, of Peusacola, while in the employ of the fishery branch of the 
United States census and subsequently; and Mr. S. T. Walker, who, in 
addition to fishes and reptiles, has sent large numbers of objects obtained 
from the Indian mounds. From Mr. James Bell, of Gainesville, have 
also been received valuable collection of ethnological objects and of liv- 
ing reptiles, including many specimens of serpents of unusual size, which 
have served to swell the series of plaster casts exhibited in the National 
Museum. 

The Atlantic coast of Florida and other Southern States is well repre- 
sented by collections of fishes by Mr. E.. E. Earll and Prof. M. McDon- 
ald, of the fishery census department. From, or through, Mr. C. C. Les- 
lie, an extensive and well-known fish dealer of Charleston, have also 
been received many rare and some undescribed species of fishes. 

The operations of the United States Fish Commission have furnished 
a large number of objects from the middle coast of the United States^ 
especiallj^ from the line of the Gulf Stream south of Kew England^ 
Further reference to this will be made under the special head of the 
Operations of the United States Fish Commission. The receipts through 
the Commission include, also, large numbers of specimens obtained by 
the Gloucester fishing fleet, aud which is furnished in an alphabetical 
record of the donors. 

The ornithology of the peninsula of Virginia in the vicinity of Gobb's 
Island has been well investigated by Mr. Eobert Eidgway, Mr. Henry 
Marshall, and Mr. P. Jouy, all connected with the National Museum. 
Many interesting birds, with their eggs, and of the young in downy 
plumage, were secured in good condition for mounting. 

On the western coast of Mexico, and especially in the Gulf of Cali- 
fornia, Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, after completing his census work on the 
S. Mis. 31 4 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

California coast, made large collections of fishes for the National 
Museum. Not much else has .been received from Mexico beyond some 
contributions from its National Museum, through the director, Mr. G. 
Mendosa, and some interesting objects from Prof. A. Duges, of Guan- 
axuato. 

Previous reports have contained an account of the important services 
of Mr. F. A. Ober in his natural history explorations in the West Indies. 
This gentleman has renewed his work in that region in visiting a num- 
ber of islands previously unexx^lored by him, and in sending the material 
results to the Institution. The National Museum now, by his assistance, 
contains by far the most complete collections of the birds of the West 
Indies in existence. 

Dr. H. H. Nicholls, of Dominica, W. I., has also made some valuable 
contributions, including a large and undescribed species of i>arrot, named 
by Mr. Lawrence Chrysotis nichollsii. The collections -from Dr. Nicholls 
include, also, some very interesting fishes, &c. From Mr. L. Guesde 
has been received a series of excellently painted illustrations of Carib 
antiquities in his possession, or accessible to him on the island. These 
it is proposed to reproduce in a memoir to be published by the Institu- 
tion. 

Mr. Edward Newton, colonial secretary of Jamaica, has favored the 
Institution with several specimens of living boas, to be reproduced in 
plaster. Professor Poey, the eminent naturalist of Havana, has also 
sent living reptiles, together with a number of fishes, — types of his elab- 
orate papers. 

South America is mainly represented by the contributions of Mr. 
Figyelmesy, United States consul at Demarara. This collection con- 
sists of ethnological objects, including a large boat, such as is used by 
the natives. 

As already stated, the collections from Europe have been principally 
series of fishes obtained for the most part by Mr. Goode at the Fishery 
Exposition in Berlin, and furnished in exchange for series of fishes, &c., 
carried from Washington for the purpose. 

Some desirable specimens of native handiwork from Western Africa 
have been forwarded by Mr. Smy the, the United States minister at 
Liberia. 

Having thus given a brief sketch of the principal regions illustrated 
by the collections transmitted during the year 1880 to the National 
Museum, a reference to the objects themselves in their systematic order 
may not be amiss. 

Mention has already been made of a large number of general collec- 
tions from different localities ; that is to say, transmissions embracing 
more than one particular group of objects. The most important of these 
were received from Alaska, Florida, and New Mexico, although many of 
more or less importance came from other regions. In later years the col- 
lections most attractive to visitors in a ijublic museum have been 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

those illustrating the character and mode of life of the various portions 
of the human race, more especially of those whose existence on the 
globe dates back to a greater or less period in the remote past ; and 
it is in this direction that the National Museum may claim a special 
importance so far as North America is concerned. With the exception of 
fishes, the larger number of objects received relate to archreology and 
ethnology. A prominent collection of this character is that transmitted 
by Mr. E. W. Nelson from Saint Michaels. This embraces illustrations 
of the handiwork of the Esquimaux of a large portion of Northwestern 
Alaska, gathered in the journeys made by Mr. Nelson under great risks 
and privations. They include objects of special interest in the way of 
modern carvings of bone and stone, as well as many purely prehistoric 
articles obtained from old Esquimaux settlements, long since aban- 
doned. Mr. Nelson's return is expected in a year or two, and he will 
then devote himself especially to the preparation of a series of elaborate 
reports on these and other researches. 

Scarcely inferior in interest and value are the ethnological collections 
made by Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. William H. Dall, on the voyage of the 
United States schooner YuTcon, to which reference has been made in 
previous images. These were gathered at points of the cruise of the 
vessel on her journey from Sitka and various lauding places of the 
North Pacific and the Arctic Oceans. 

Captain Beardslee, of the Navy, has also furnished some valuable 
additions to the Alaskan series. 

The collections made, under the direction of Maj. J. W. Powell, by 
Mr. James Stevenson, with the assistance, first, of Mr. Frank H. Gush- 
ing, and, second, by Mr. Galbraith, constitute enormous additions of 
material to the National Museum, illustrating the character of the pueblo 
tribes of New Mexico. They embrace many thousands of specimens of 
pottery, dresses, ornaments, weapons, &c. 

For further information in regard to the smaller collections in anthro- 
pology, reference may be made to the alphabetical index of donors. Of 
special note, however, among these, are some objects of stone collected 
by Judge Henderson from the Naples mound in Illinois. 

From Don Ignacio Galendo, of Monterey, was received an ancient 
mummy from a cave in Coahuila. A stone image from Mr. Latimer, of 
Porto Eico, constitutes an important addition to the collection of Porto 
Eican antiquities bequeathed to the Smithsonian some years ago by Mr. 
George Latimer, his uncle. 

Mr. Figyelmesy, of Demarara, has sent some interesting objects, con- 
sisting of an Indian boat, some Indian i)ottery, «&c. 

Of mammals, the most important contribution is that of a large series 
of fossil bones (including some reptiles) from Capt. E. Crawford, U. S. 
A. These, at his request, have been placed at the command of Pro- 
fessor Marsh for investigation. 

A fine skull of the fossil beaver [Castoroides) was obtained by ex- 
change from Professor Kost, of Adrian College. 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

An extremely important addition to the collection of JS^orth American 
mammals is that of two good, mountable skins of the Histriophoca 
equestris, or i^arti- colored seal of the North Pacific, of which only a 
tauned skin had been previously in possession of the Museum. These 
were obtained through the instrumentality of Mr. Dall. 

Dr. White, of the Revenue Marine, obtained many specimens of fur 
Aeals, including several embryos in alcohol. The Alaska Commercial 
Company also supplied a similar collection. Judge Caton, of Illinois, 
so well known for his great work on the ruminating animals of North 
America, has furnished a specimen of Hydropotes inermis, a small horn- 
less deer belonging to China. 

Captain Howgate has presented two full-blooded Esquimaux dogs, 
which have been sent to the Zoological Garden in Philadelphia for safe 
keeping. Prom the garden itself has been obtainetl a series of skele- 
tons of monkeys that had died in the garden. An embryo porpoise 
from Mr. E. E. Small, of Provincetown, is also highly valued. 

Of hirds, many collections have been received, the most important 
being the Alaskan series from Mr. Nelson, Dr. Bean, and Captain 
Beardslee. Captain Bendire has furnished some much-appreciated 
skins from Washington Territory ; and a series of the birds of Cali- 
fornia, from Mr. L. Belding, of Stockton, has filled some important gaps 
in the collections. 

During the summer Mr. Ridgway, curator of ornithology in the Insti- 
tution, accompanied by Mr. Henry Marshall, taxidermist, and followed 
subsequently by Mr. P. Jouy, an assistant in the Museum, visited Cobb's 
Island on the peninsula of Eastern Virginia, and obtained a series of 
adults and young of a number of water birds from the remarkable breed- 
ing grounds of that island. 

A few specimens of Barrow's Golden eyed duck, in the flesh, were 
furnished by Mr. G. A. Boardman. 

The barnacle goose {Bernicla leucopsis), presented by Mr. J. J. Kendall, 
of New York, is the first specimen of that species obtained by the 
Miiseum from a locality within the limits of the United States, although 
a skin was received several years ago from Hudson's Bay. 

A finely-mounted specimen of the trumpeter swan, killed in Wiscon- 
sin, was furnished by Prof. T. Kumlien, and a mounted sand hill crane 
by Mr. Prouty. 

The accessions of birds from Mexico and Central America were 
fewer than usual, although some interesting Mexican specimens were 
furnished by Professor Duges. 

An important addition to the West Indian collections was made by 
Dr. Nicholls, of Dominica, in the form of a new and large species of 
parrot. This, as previously stated, has been described by Mr. Law- 
rence as Ghrysotis nichollsii. Mr. Ober, in a renewed visit to the West 
Indies, also added considerably to his former gatherings from islands 
previously unvisited by him. The first series of his collections was 
obtained by the Institution and placed in the National Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

The additions of reptiles, although not very extensive, have been very 
important, especially in the way of living specimens to serve as models 
for a series of plaster casts. Among these were living Gila monsters 
{Heloflerma suspecUim), from Dr. Corson and Dr. Moran, of the United 
States Army, together with some turtles and lizards. 

A living leather back turtle was sent from York Eiver, Chesapeake 
Bay, by Mr. J. Henderson. Mr. Bell, of Gainesville, Fla., transmitted 
a magnificent series of most of the serpents of that State; among them 
a banded rattlesnake, nearly seven feet in length. These have been for 
the most part cast in plaster. Some of them were supplied to Dr. Mason, 
of I^ewi)ort, for examination and to serve as material for microscoi)ical 
investigations of the tissue of the brain and spinal marrow. 

Living boas were furnished by Mr. Edward Newton, of Jamaica, and 
Professor Poey, of Havana, the latter gentleman sending also some 
living species of lizards and snakes. 

Fishes. — As might be imagined from the activity manifested during 
the year by the United States Fish Commission, and the fish census of 
1880, the collection of fishes has received great additions, no previous 
year in the history of the National Museum comparing with it in this 
respect. The most important contributions in this department consisted 
of the collections by Prof. D. S. Jordan and Mr. Charles H. Gilbert, of 
the fishery census. These gentlemen devoted a number of months dur- 
ing the year to the systematic investigation of the food-fishes of the 
western coast of the United States, and traversed the whole region from 
San Diego to Puget Sound in their researches. The results filled 05 
large tin cans, of 4 to 6 cubic feet each. About 2G0 species in all were 
obtained, many of them new to science. Seventy duplicate sets of 
specimens were secured for distribution to the principal museums, at 
home and abroad, and will be promptly transmitted to their respective 
destinations. 

Mr. Gilbert, after completing his work on the California coast, started 
on his homeward journey by way of the Isthmus of Panama, and has 
alread}^ made very large collections in the Gulf of California. 

Mr. James G. Swan, of Neah Bay, Puget Sound, also obtained and 
transmitted many specimens of fishes of that locality. The American 
waters farther to the north were thoroughly explored in the interest of 
ichthyology by Dr. T. H. Bean. The results amounted to between 80 
and 100 species, some of them new to science, and others, long lost spe- 
cies, of Pallas, &c. 

Captain Hooper, of the revenue cutter Corunn, also transmitted some 
valuable collections from the Arctic Ocean, among them a species of 
Coregonus from Point Barrow. 

Commander Beardslee, of the sloop of war Jamestown stationed at 
Sitka, secured a number of desirable species. One of the most interest- 
ing collections of the year was that made by Captain Bendire in the 
interior waters of Washington Territory, in the course of a journey 



54 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

instituted by liiin, with the permission of the War Department, for the 
purpose of solving certain problems connected with the fishes of the 
Columbia Kiver and other waters, and especially the red fish of the 
Wallowa Lake. His collections are now in the Museum, and will be 
duly reported upon at the proper time. 

A number of collections of fresh-water fishes from the interior of the 
continent, especially from Utah, were furnished by Mr. Gr. K. Gilbert, 
&c. A collection of Mississippi Valley fishes, from Prof. O. P. Hay, is 
also highly i)rized. 

The fishes of the Gulf of IMexico were furnished in large numbers dur- 
ing the year by Mr. Silas Stearns, of Pensacola, and Mr. S. T. Walker, 
many of them undescribed species. 

The South Atlantic coa st is represented by some very valuable speci- 
mens obtained by Mr. 0. C. Leslie, a fish-dealer of Charleston, who has 
previously placed the Institution under many similar obligations. He 
was also instrumental in securing a number of collections made from the 
outer islands or banks of the southern coast. 

Mr. E. E. Earll and Col. M. McDonald, of the fishery census, have 
also made and transmitted many extremely interesting collections, all 
tending very greatly to complete the east coast sx^ecies. 

The first specimens of the eagle ray, sometimes called the devil fish, 
obtained by the Institution were furnished by Lieutenant Sweitzer, U. 
S. A. This species sometimes obtains an enormous magnitude, reach- 
ing 20 or even 25 feet across the fins. 

As a regular contributor, Mr. E. G. Blackford, of Fulton Market, ISTew 
York, has continued to furnish some very desirable species, his vigihmce 
being constantly exercised to obtain whatever he thinks is new, and to 
forward it to the Institution. 

The collections made by the United States Fish Commission, in its coast 
ex[)lorations during the year, have been of unusual value, no less than 
20 undescribed species of deep-sea fish having been taken during the 
summer, with others not previously obtained, but already known. 

As usual a large number of rare, and some new, species were obtained 
from the members of the Gloucester fishing fleet, through the instru- 
mentality of Mr. A. Howard Clark, of the Fish Commission, stationed 
at Gloucester. The most noteworthy additions to the Museum resulted 
liom the work by the Fish Hawk, on the edge of the Gulf Stream, where 
four day's work furnished 20 new fishes and over 150 species of mol- 
lusks, of which about 40 were new to science. Other invertebrates of 
interest were supplied by the Gloucester fishermen, and a number of 
desirable species were obtained by Professor Jordan, Mr. Swan, Captain 
Beardslee, and Messrs. Bean and Dall from the Pacific coast. 

Among interesting illustrations of the progress and results of the fish- 
cultural operations of the country received during the year have been 
several species of salmonida;, sent in by Mr. Stone from the McCloud 
Eiver. Mr. N. K. Fairbanks has furnished a specimen of California 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

salmon, caught in Geneva Lake during the summer, weighing about 10 
pounds, this being undoubtedly one of the young fish introduced into 
that lake some years before, hatched from eggs supplied by the United 
States Fish Commission from the McCloud Eiver establishment. 

Another important specimen was that of a carp, from Mr. G. B. Mob- 
ley, of Texas. This fish was one of a sending into Texas by the United 
States Fish Commission in April, 1880, at which time it was about 4 
inches long and probably weighed but little over an ounce. Eight 
months after it was brought back from Texas to Washington, measur- 
ing 21 inches and weighing more than four pounds! a very remarkable 
illustration of the rapidity of the growth of this fish in America. 

The acquisition, through the instrumentality of Mr. E. W. Dennison, 
of Boston, of a large brook trout was also a subject of interest, this fish 
weighing more than 11 pounds and being one of the largest of the kind 
ever taken within the limits of the United States. 

Of exotic fishes the most important are several series of European 
species, obtained by Mr. Goode at Berlin and from his colleagues at the 
International Fishery Exhibition. 

Eeference to these will be found on another page. 

A collection of fishes made some years since at Beyrout, in Syria, by 
Dr. Kidder, of the Navy, was received last year, in good condition. 
Professor I*oey has continued his contributions of type species from the 
Cuban waters. 

A valuable miscellaneous series of fishes was supplied by the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology of Cambridge, embracing species from both 
North and South America. 

Uv. Viual Edwards, of Wood's Holl, an agent of tbe United States 
Fish Commission, has also continued his services in the constant watch 
for rare stragglers. 

In the preparation of the exhibit by the United States at the Inter- 
national Fishery Exhibit at Berlin in 1880, invitations were sent to many 
firms for coutributions of specimens. These were quite readily complied 
with. Purchases were made from other parties who declined to contrib- 
ute, and who consequently lost the opportunity of competition. A 
special catalogue will be furnished of this series. The collections, for 
the most part, have been brought back to Washington, to form part of 
the exhibit of fishery products in the new National Museum. 

Shells. — One of the most important additions to the collections of the 
National Museum during the year has resulted from the presentation by 
Mr. W. G. Binney of his entire collection of American Laud Shells. The 
history of this division of the mollusca, so far as North America is con- 
cerned, is closely connected with the name, Mr. Amos Binney, father of 
William G. Binney, having devoted especial attention to the air-breath- 
ing land shells, and published a very elaborate and costly work on the 
subject. The sou took up the same group with the material left by Dr. 
Binney, and has devoted many years of an active and laborious scien- 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tific career to it. In the collection received from Mr. William G. Binney 
are to be found the ty[)es of both these series of researclies, furnishing 
a collection scarcely equalled, certainly not surpassed, by that of any 
other museum in the country. 

The possession by a public museum of such a type collection as 
Mr. Binney's is always considered' a matter of very great importance, 
especially as the objects are thereby more assured of continued preser- 
vation and ready accessibility to students. It is to be hoped that ad- 
ditional donations of the same character may be made from time to 
time, as no better de^DOsitory can be found in any other establishment. 

Flants. — As the Department of Agriculture has the special charge of 
the investigations relating to the vegetable kingdom, and is supposed to 
take the necessary steps towards securing representations in its her- 
barium, no special effort is made by the Smithsonian Institution to invite 
or secure contributions, although whatever is received is immediately 
transferred to that establishment. The only accession of importance 
during the year is that of a series of plants of Japan, contributed by the 
Mombusho or educational department of Tokio. 

Fo.ssils. — Of fossil remains large collections of invertebrates have been 
deposited by Capt. Geo. M. Wheeler, and others have been presented 
by Mr. B. H. Lyon and other paleontologists. 

Minerals. — Many valuable mineral collections have been received from 
various sources, for the most part illustrating economical geology rather 
than geology proper. The largest collection has been that of eight boxes 
collected by Mr. Thomas Donaldson. Mr. Anthony Pirz has furnished 
two magnificent stalactites from the Adelsberg cave in Carniola. 

Paintings. — Among the collections which will form part of the objects 
in the National Museum, a very interesting and instructive exhibit will 
consist of the Indian portraits and scenes painted by the late George 
Catlin. These pictures, all from living subjects and of great merit as 
faithful portraitures of aboriginal life and manners, were presented 
to the Institution in 1879, by Mrs. Harrison, of Philadelphia, but 
the i)aintings have necessarily been stored since their receipt, await- 
ing the completion of the new Museum. They had also been stored in 
ware-rooms in Philadelphia for many years, so that to preserve and 
present them in a suitable manner with frames, &c., will require con- 
siderable expenditure. 

Miscellanea. — The institution is under many obligations to General 
Meigs for the presentation of medallion likenesses in plaster, of the size 
of life, of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, W. F. Seward, and Sal- 
mon P. Chase, which were prepared for use in the extension of the 
U. S. Capitol building. As works of art, as well as likenesses of 
eminent citizens, they are regarded as of much value and will be care- 
fully preserved in the historical and art department of the National 
Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 57 

Work done in the Museum. — As in previous years, the time of the sev- 
eral curators of the Museum and of their assistants has been, to a great 
degree, occupied in receiving the collections coming from various sources, 
doing to them what is necessary for their permanent preservation, en- 
tering them in the record-books, properly labelling them, and then plac- 
ing them in their apjiropriate receptacles. 

The magnitude of this labor may be easily understood from what has 
been said of the increase of the Museum during the year, no single 
establishment in the United States, nor, perhaps, in the world, being in 
receipt of so great a number of objects requiring such treatment. In 
most establishments where a largo amount of material is received 
from time to time, this comes, for the most part, by purchase or dona- 
tion, the several collections having already j^assed under the hands of 
the taxidermist or specialist, so that all that remains is to properly place 
the matter in a position for permanent preservation. The aggressive 
campaign, carried on directly or indirectly by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in unoccupied fields of research, involves a greater amount of labor 
in treating the spoils of conquest. A statement of the general circum- 
stances attendant upon the transmission of a miscellaneous collection of 
specimens may perhaps serve as an illustration of what is here stated. 
Thus, an explorer in the field announces that he has transmitted a cer- 
tain collection from a given locality to the Institution. An entry is 
made of the fact in what is called the announcement book, which is 
ruled in columns to show successively the date of announcement, the 
name of the sender, his address, the point from which the sending is 
made, the general nature of the transmission, the agent to or through 
whom forwarded, and the mode of conveyance. There are then left 
two blank columns, one indicating the date of the arrival, the other the 
freight and other charges, which are filled up at the proper time. When 
the package arrives the date is entered in the announcement book, and 
an entry made in another volume (the transportation record). The col- 
lection or object is then recorded in still another volume (accessions to 
the Museum), and has affixed to it a " donation" number. Should there 
be any letter or memorandum accomiianjing the parcel or consignment, 
with fuller details than simply the locality and sender, it is transmitted 
with the i^ackage to the general curator, under whose direction the 
latter is opened and the contents assorted. Mammals, birds, reptiles, 
&c., are assigned respectively to the various curators, whose business it 
is, if possible without delay of a single day, to enter the specimens 
in the respective Museum registers, and to affix a number, as inefface- 
able as possible, corresi)ondiug to the entry in what is called the Muse- 
um Eegister. 

At this stage it is not necessary that the specimen be accurately 
identified and named, as it is supposed that this can at any time be 
done by the specialist. Care, however, is exercised to make an entry 
of the donor, locality, date, and other facts of the history of the object 



58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

that a simple inspection or study will not furnish. After this the various 
articles are placed where they properly belong. Some, however, require 
further treatment by the taxidermist or otherwise. 

Should the specimens belong to the ethnological series, and be com- 
posed of animal substances, as of woolen material, fur, &c., they are care- 
fully treated with a solution of corrosive sublimate in alcohol, so as to pre- 
vent danger from insects, and finally placed in the cases where they be- 
long, or packed away until they can be properly considered. Of course, 
collections well dried, shells, minerals, fossils, &c., require little treat- 
ment pi-eliminary to their final disposition. 

This Museum work, as already stated, occuj^ies the greater part of the 
time of the assistants, although most of them find the occasion and the 
leisure to prepare critical monograi)hs in regard to certain species, which 
are then, for the most part, published in the Proceedings of the National 
Museum. 

The total number of entries in the record books of the Museum dur- 
ing the year, as shown by the detailed list appended, embraces 14,586 
numbers, averaging probably four or five distinct objects to each entry. 
Where a number of articles of the same general character, from the 
same locality, are received from the same donor at the same time, the 
same number may be affixed to all of them, as in the case of a collection 
of shells, of fossils, of stone implements, «&c. The total number of en- 
tries and dates amounts to over a quarter of a million (actually, 281,511), 
and fill over GO large folio ledgers. 

Among the more special investigations conducted by the naturalists 
of the Institution, upon which papers have been prepared, are those on 
archa'ology, by Dr. Charles Rau; on fishes, by Mr. G. B. Goode, and Dr. 
T. H. Bean ; on the birds, by Mr. Robert Ridgway ; on the fossils, by 
Dr. 0. A. White. Dr. F. M. Eudlich, before leaving for the West Indies, 
and subsequently Dr. F. W. Taylor, made numerous examinations as 
well as analyses of minerals. 

Among investigations by collaborators not directly connected with the 
Institution have been, those of Crustacea, by Profs. S. J. Smith, Oscar 
Harger, and E. B. Wilson, of Yale College ; of mollusks, .by Professor 
Verrill and Mr. Sanderson Smith, of New York; of radiates and worms, 
by Professor Verrill ; of reptiles, by Prof. E. D. Cope, of Philadelphia ; 
of fishes, by Mr. S. E. Garman, of Cambridge ; of birds, by Mr. George 
N. Lawrence, of New York, Dr. Elliot Coues, and Mr. Henshaw; of 
mammals, by J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, and Dr. Coues. 

The more important investigation in the marine invertebrates, how- 
ever, has been made directly by Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale College, or 
under his supervision. The insects have been transmitted to Prof. C. 
V. Riley and Professor Comstock, of the Department of Agriculture ; 
the plants have been referred to the Department of Agriculture or to 
Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge. 

Work done on collections. — For a number of years past the Smithsonian 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

Institution has beeu in receipt of soundings taken by vessels of the 
United States Navy in various parts of the world, and they have beeu 
held in the hope of beiug able to make some definite arrangement for 
disposing of them. As, however, there were no funds of the Smithson- 
ian Institution or of the Navy for meeting the cost of investigating 
them and publishing the results, with the necessary illustrations, nothing 
was done beyond placing them in charge of Prof. Hamilton L. Smith, of 
Geneva, N. Y., one of our best-known microscopists, and ^particularly 
interested in the class of objects referred to. 

During the explorations of the Challenger particular attention was 
paid to the collecting of samj)Ies of the sea bottom, and on her return 
to England this branch of research was placed in charge of Mr. J. Mur- 
ray, and at the request of this gentleman, indorsed by Professor Smith, 
the material in hand was sent to him to be elaborated in the prepara- 
tion of the systematic work covering the entire field. This was with the 
stipulation that a special report should be prepared upon the material 
collected by the vessels of the Navy, to be published, if so desired, by 
the Navy Department. 

A very desirable arrangement has been made during the year by the 
Institution in regard to the large collection of Ibssil plants brought in to 
the National Museum by the exxiloratious of Dr. Hay den. Major Powell, 
Lieutenant Wheeler, &c., Prof. L. Lesquereux, of Columbus, Ohio, 
having agreed to receive the collection in mass, to pick out "a reserve 
series for the Museum, and to bring all the duplicates of each si)ecies in 
sei)arate packages, so that sets can be readily made uj) for distribution 
to the educational establishments and museums of the United States. 

The material sent to Professor Lesquereux filled many boxes, and a 
portion of the reserve has already been returned to the Institution, 
although not yet unpacked for want of a place for its exhibition. The 
work will be completed with the publication of a report as soon as cer- 
tain memoirs, now in press, are published, and it becomes possible 
to state the page and plate where each type specimen is illustrated. 

A part of the agreement with Professor Lesquereux is for the prepa- 
ration of a complete check-list of the fossil i)lants of America, to include 
Greenland and Alaska, to be used in connection with the proposed dis- 
tribution of definite specimens and for the final arrangement of the 
reserve series. 

Dr. C. A. White has been engaged upon the examination, classifica- 
tion, and registering of the paleontological collections, embracing those 
which have for many years been in the possession of the Museum, as 
well as those which have been more recently received, preparatory to 
their final arrangement in the new building. This work of investigation 
has embraced a more or less comj^lete study of those forms which have 
beeu found to be new to science or otherwise of especial interest, and 
their publication and illustration in the Proceedings of the National 
Museum ; and also, incidentally, the separation and labeling of the dupli- 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cate specimens for exchange. All the invertebrate fossils at present in 
the possession of the Museum have thus passed under a preliminary 
examination by Dr. White. 

Among the results of the investigation of the invertebrate fossils may 
be mentioned the recognition of Productus giganteus Martin, in a collec- 
tion obtained by the United States Fish Commission at McCloud River, 
Cal., which species was not previously known to occur in American strata; 
the recognition of StricJdandinia salteri and 8. davidsoni Billings, among 
some Upper Silurian fossils brought from Northern Georgia by Lieut. 
A. W. Vodges, which two species had hitherto been found only in the 
island of Anticosti. 

As already stated, the fossil plants have been referred to Prof. Leo 
Lesquereux for classification, which work is now in progress and in 
large part comjileted, the specimens as fast as they were labeled having 
been returned to the Museum. The greater part of the vertebrate fos- 
sils have not yet been investigated, bat a considerable number of boxes 
received from Capt. G. M. Wheeler contain the types of vertebrate forms 
which were described and figured by Professor Cope in Volume lY 
Explorations and Surveys west of the 100th Meridian. 

A large proportion of these paleontological collections, vertebrates 
invertebrates, and plants, consists of the type specimens upon which 
species and genera have been founded, and many other species and 
genera are rej)resented among these collections by authentic examples. 
Among them are the types of the greater part of the species which 
have been published in the reporJ,s of the different explorations and 
surveys by authority of the general government, and by the Smithso- 
nian Institution and National Museum. 

The following is a list of the titles of the articles from the pen of Dr. 
White, based on the museum collections, which have been published in 
the Proceedings: 

Descriptions of new species of invertebrate fossils. 
Note on Endothyra ornata. 
Note on CHocardium and Ethmocardium. 
Descriptions of New Cretaceous Invertebrate Fossils from Kansas and 

Texas. 
Note on the Occurrence of Productus giganteus in California. 
Note on Acrothele. 

Description of a New Cretaceous Pinna from New Mexico. 
Note on StricJclandinia salteri and aS^. davidsoni in Georgia. 
Description of a very large Fossil Gasteropod from the State of Pueblo, 

Mexico. 
Descriptions of New Invertebrate Fossils from the Mesozoic and Ceno- 

zoic rocks of Arkansas, Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah. 

Distribution of duplicate specimens. — It is a question whether any 
museum has ever made so systematic, thorough, and extensive a disposal 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

of its surplus material as has been made by the Smithsonian Institution 
within the last twenty-five years. There is scarcely a public museum in 
the country, especially if connected with a scientific society, university 
or college, that has not received a share. In later years these distribu- 
tions have been extensive including, as they have, the surplus stock 
gathered by the extensive operations of the United States Fish Com- 
mission. 

An additional advantage connected with these distributions is the 
fact that nothing is ever sent out without being thoroughly identified 
and named by competent masters, so that the objects constitute types 
of the utmost value. 

The extent to which this distribution has been carried during 1880 
may be understood from the fact that it embraced over 14,000 specimens, 
each accompanied by labels showing name, locality, &c. Tlie total num- 
ber of specimens distributed to date is not much short of half a million 
(actually 407,255). 

Assistants in the Museum. — A. large ai:)proi)riation was made by Con- 
gress for the service in the National Museum required by the erection 
of the new building, and available first in 1880. This required a reor- 
ganization of the entire force and a more specific definition of the duties 
and responsibilities to the Institution. All i)ersons who had been em- 
ployed received a specific letter of appointment, a condition of which 
requiring formal acceptance in writing was that the incumbent, during 
his connection with the Institution, should make no private collections 
in natural history of any kind whatever. This rule is in force in all the 
European museums, and is considered absolutely necessary for their inter- 
ests, as the curators have ample opportunities of inducing the diversion 
of material from the museum to themselves, if they are so inclined. In 
the experience of the Smithsonian Institution there has been no reason 
to suppose that this danger is to be guarded against; but it was thought 
best to establish a general principle, so that there should be no misun- 
derstanding at any time. All the persons appointed have agreed to the 
condition, which is now in full force. 

Courtesies from Foreign Museums. — The authorities and trustees of 
the British Museum have been engaged for several years in the pre- 
l^aration and erection of new buildings at South Kensington, for the 
accommodation of the natural history collections, transferred from the 
location where they have been housed for so many years ; and as it was 
l^resumed that the architects and curators of the museum would make 
a very exhaustive study in regard to what was needed for the exhibition 
of the specimens in the new building, application was made to Dr. Giin- 
ther, the chief of the zoological department, for such information as he 
might feel at liberty to render. He kindly and promptly responded by 
sending numerous drawings and specifications, whichhave been carefully 
studied and made good use of in connection with the arrangements for 
the National Museum building. 



62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The directors of the science and art branch of the South Kensington 
Museum have very kindly supi)lied a volume containing engraved plans 
and elevations of the glass cases of that establishment. 

To Prof. A. B. Meyer, of Dresden, the Institution is also indebted 
for drawings of certain new iron cases lately erected in the Zoological 
Museum of that city. He added to the obligation also by having pre- 
l)ared aud sent to us the elementary parts of the cases, of natural size, 
so as to furnish a better idea of the mode of construction and fitting. 

THE ETHNOLOGICAL BUREAU. 

As in previous years, an appropriation was made by Congress for the 
prosecution of researches into American ethnology in 1880, under the di- 
rection of the Smithsonian Institution. The superintendence of tbis work 
was continued in charge of Prof. J. W. Powell, the appropriation being 
expended i^artly in keeping uj) the oifice organization of the Bureau and 
partly in continuing the series of special researches into the ethnology 
and linguistics of the Indian tribes. A portion of the appropriation was 
also expended in continuing the explorations under the direction of Mr. 
James Stevenson into the ethnology of the pueblos of New Mexico. In 
1877 a number of villages were visited and complete collections of every- 
thing illustrating their domestic habits, their weapons of war and the chase, 
their religious ceremonies, &g., were obtained. During the present year 
other villages were visited by the same parties, and large collections 
were made and shipped to Washington. These have not yet been re- 
ceived, but when they arrive will constitute a very important addition to 
the National Museum. 

In addition to the general work prosecuted by Major Powell, he has 
been requested by General Walker to superintend the work of taking 
the census of the Indians for the census of 1880 ; and for this purpose 
he has appointed a number of agents to visit various portions of the 
United States for carrying out this business. Major Powell himself has 
spent a number of months in the field in connection with the same work. 

EELATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION TO OTHER DEPART- 
MENTS AND ESTABLISHMENTS. 

As shown by the past history of this Institution, its relations to the 
different departments of government and to numerous establishments 
in this and other cities have been varied and important. 

The Government. — With the Library of Congress, the Institution is 
brought into constant intercourse, from the many contributions of valu- 
able scientific works and journals continually made from donations, ex- 
changes, purchases, and other sources. With the Army Medical Museum 
there is the exchange of anatomical objects for ethnological and zoological 
specimens. With the Signal OfiSce of the War Department there have 
been interchanges of meteorological observations and records. With 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63 

the Interior Department has naturally arisen a frequent communication 
relative to the material and information derived from the various gov- 
ernment explorations and geological surveys. The Treasury Depart- 
ment has had occasion to institute investigations relative to the precise 
identification of manufactured and other articles, and the methods of 
detecting substitutions or adulterations, with special reference to cus- 
toms duties and the prevention of fraud in the collection of revenue. 
With the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, interesting rela- 
tions have sprung up relative to certain features in physical geography. 
The scientific character of the National Observatory has naturally 
brought about an affiliation of the interests and purposes of the two 
institutions, and co-operation has been maintained especially with refer- 
ence to the international transmission of astronomical discoveries by 
telegraph. To the custody of the Agricultural Department, the In- 
stitution has transferred from time to time all the entomological and 
botanical material coming into its possession from the contributions of 
its numerous correspondents. 

Gallery of Art. — In conformity with the established policy of the In- 
stitution — " co-oi^eration rather than competition " — it has made the 
Corcoran Art Gallery its depository of any works of fine art it may re- 
ceive by exchange or otherwise. 

A portrait which is claimed to be an original likeness of General 
Washington was sent to the Institution by Mr. E. C. Bruce, of Virginia, 
to be placed on exhibition in hopes of finding a purchaser at a satisfac- 
tory i>rice. This portrait, said to have been painted by Mr. Polk, was, 
with the consent of the owner, deposited in the Corcoran Art Gallerj', 
where it is now on exhibition. 

In the early i^art of the year a letter was received from Mr. 
W. W. Evans, of New York, suggesting that communication be ad- 
dressed to the Government of Italy for the purpose of obtaining some 
of the numerous duplicates secured by the latter in the progress of the 
excavations at Pompeii. In pursuance of the suggestion a correspond- 
ence was entered into, through the American minister in Eome, with the 
proper authorities in Italy. This is not yet concluded, but it is thought 
that whenever a suitable exchange can be offered on the part of the Na- 
tional Museum the desired object may be accomplished. 

In connection with the subject of art, a favorable mention should be 
made of a life-size bust of Professor Henrj^, by Mrs. C. S. Brooks, of 
New York, now on exhibition in the Kegents' room of the Smithsonian 
building. Tliis bust, of considerable merit as a portraiture, is remark- 
able as having been modelled entirely from a i)hotograi)h. 

Polaris Expedition. — The history of the expedition of Cai)t. C, F. Hall 
in the direction of the North Pole, on the steamer Polaris, and its gen- 
eral results, have already been referred to in previous reports. As was 



64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to be expected, Congress made a liberal provision for the publication of 
the results of the exjiedition. The narrative volume was prepared un- 
der the sujiervision of Admiral Davis, at the time Superintendent of the 
Naval Observatory at this city, and the volume of physical results, pre- 
pared under the direction of Dr. Emil Bessels, the chief of the scientific 
corps of the expedition, and i)r:nted by Congress. There still, however, 
remains a large amount of material relating to the geology, natural his- 
tory, and ethnology of arctic America, and Dr. Bessels has been con- 
tinuing the elaboration of this work for publication, having a room in 
the building assigned for the purpose. 

Congress at the last session made an apjjropriation of $8,000, and 
placed it under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, to be ex- 
pended in preparing this material for final publication. The supervi- 
sion of the work was placed in Dr. Bessel's hands, and in order to com- 
plete his researches on the history of the Esquimaux, it became necessary 
for him to visit Copenhagen and have conference with Dr. Kink in ref- 
erence to that branch, as also to study the collections in the Copenhagen 
Museum. He has been very sucessful in his mission, and expects to re- 
turn in February, and immediately thereafter to begin the printing of 
his final report. By authority of the Secretary of the Treasury the dis- 
bursal of the funds was placed in charge of Mr. Thomas J. Hobbs, one 
of the disbursing clerks of the Treasury Department. 

The Alaska Commercial Company. — For many years the Alaska Com- 
mercial Comi^any has acted to a great degree as the agent of the Smith- 
sonian Institution on the Pacific coast, and the heartiest acknowledge- 
ments are due for its assistance during the year 1880, as well as in pre- 
vious years. It has not simply been the agent for the transmission or 
reception of packages between Washington and San Francisco, but has 
readily undertaken the ijurchase of supplies and tbeir transmission to 
the agents of the Institution, in many cases making large money ad- 
vances. The entire business has necessarily involved the employment 
of much official time, and in some cases doubtless considerable annoy- 
ance. This, however, has been cheerfully rendered by the company 
without any consideration whatever. 

The comi)any has also made many contributions to the Museum from 
the collections sent to it by its own agents. 

Centennial Commission Archives. — In the latter part of 1880 a meeting 
of the executive committee of the International Exhibition of 1876 was 
held in Philadelphia for the purpose of closing up the business of' the 
exhibition. It was then decided to deposit all the archives of the com- 
mission in the National Museum at Washington, and the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution was notified of this action. 

The value and imj^ortance of these i^apers, plans, &c., will increase 
with time, and the determination of the commission to secure for them 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

permanent preservation at tJie national Capital is to be considered as 
patriotic and judicious. 1 have formally assured the commission of the 
willinguess of the Institution to receive the articles as soon as a suitable 
place can be prepared in the new ^Museum for their reception. 

N'ational Academy of Sciences. — The regular meeting of the i^ational 
Academy of Sciences was held in Washington on the 2()th day of April, 
the accommodations being furnished, as in 1879, by the officers of All 
Souls' Church. It is hoped that at no distant day it may be in the power 
of the Smithsonian Institntion to again offer the necessary facilities of 
room, &c., to the Academy. Prof. Wm. B. Eogers, i^resident of the 
Academy, presided, and the meeting was in every way a successful one, 
a very large i)roportion of the members being in attendance and 
many interesting papers commnnicated. As the early history of the 
Academy was closely connected with that of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, by reason of Professor Henry having been the i)resident for many 
years, the files, correspondence, and archives were searched for data 
illustrating this relationship, and the results transmitted to Professor 
Eogers, 

Paris IniernaUonal Congress and Exposition relative to Electricity. — 
Through the courtesy of the State Department, this Institution received 
early copies of circulars and programmes relative to a i)roposed inter- 
national congress of electricians, aiid also to an international exhibition 
of electrical apparatus and aj)plications, to be held at Paris in 1881. 
These pa])ers have to some extent been appropriately" distributed. By 
an official decree of President Grevy, ot the French Eepublic, dated 
October 23, 1880, a congress of electricians is invited to meet at Paris 
on the 15th of next September (1881), the presiding officer of which 
body will be the minister of the postal service and telegraphs, M. 
Ad. Cochery. An international exposition of electrical apparatus of 
all kinds, designed for the production, propagation, and utilization of 
electricity (as well as of all memoirs and treatises relating to that subject) 
is appointed, to be held in the palace of the Champs Elysees, from the 
1st of August to the 15th of iSTovember, 1881. M. George Berger has 
been appointed the commissioner-general of the congress and of the ex- 
hibition. 

As a token of interest and co-operation in this enterprise, the Insti- 
tution has sent to the commission, for deposit in the bibliographical 
class, a copy of each of its publications relating to electricity and ter- 
restrial magnetism, to wit, four numbers of its octavo series (of Miscel- 
laneous Collections), and thirteen numbers of its quarto series (of Smith- 
sonian Contributions). 

Recognition by Foreign Governments. — A gratifying testimonial to the 
appreciation of the Smithsonian Institution in its labors connected with 
the results of international exchanges, «S:c., was furnished by the action 
S. Mis. 31 5 



66 KEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of tlie International Exposition in Sydney, Australia, in jiresenting to it 
a bronze medal, although no exhibit of any kind was made by the Institu- 
tion on that occasion. 

MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS. 

Loss of Employes and Collaborators. — It is seldom that a year i)asses 
without entailing the mournful task of recording the loss by death of 
one or more of those who have been either directly employed hj the 
Institution, or have rendered it assistance in the prosecution of its varied 
scientific operations. In the necrology of the past jear, several valued 
names are to be included. 

In the death of Dr. Tho3IAS M. Brewer, at his residence in Boston, 
on the 2d of January last, the Smithsonian Institution loses one of its 
best and earliest friends, and one who always rendered important serv- 
ice in his capacity as editor of a leading Boston daily journal, and did 
much toward keeping the public advised of the true spirit of the opera- 
tions of the Institution. 

In his death the science of ornithology loses one of its earliest votaries, 
constituting, as he did, a connecting link between the i)resent epoch and 
the period of Audubon and Nuttall. Dr. Brewer's specialty Avas in his 
knowledge of the history and the habits of birds, and especially of their 
nidification, and he has always been the highest authority on every thing- 
relating to the eggs of North American species. Many years ago he 
planned an exhaustive work on Korth American Oology, to be illustrated 
by the best drawings that could be i:!rocured, and an agreement was 
made by the Smithsonian Institution to publish this work in successive 
parts. The first number of this Korth American Oology was i)ublished 
by the Institution, and embraced more particularly the rapacious birds, 
the swallows, the goat suckers, and the king-fishers. This publication 
took jilace at a time when the knowledge of North American birds was 
undergoing many changes, resulting from the expansion of the territory 
of the United States and the better knowledge of its different portions. 

The further i)ublication was deferred for a time, but arrangements 
were being made at the time of his death to take up the work again and 
carry it to its completion. 

Dr. Brewer has done a great deal towards popularizing American 
ornithology by his investigations and correspondence with ornithologi- 
cal students of all grades of advancement. To no one so much as to Dr. 
Brewer is due the love of ornithology that is so i^revalent in Xew Eng- 
land. In 1840, he published an American edition of Wilson's Ornithol- 
ogy, which met for a time a much felt want, and he has also published 
a large number of j^apers on ornithological subjects. His most im- 
portant work, however, was in connection with the History of North 
American Birds, by Baird, Brewer, and Eidgway, printed by Messrs. 
Little & Brown, in 1873, of which three volumes have so far appeared, 
namely, those on land species. Of these the entire biological text was 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67 

furnished hj Dr. Brewer. At the time of his death, he left behind the 
manuscript of the water-bird i)ortion of the same history. This is now 
in the hands of Mr. Alexander Agassiz, and will probably be published 
soon as one of the remaining portions of the work. 

Dr. Brewer had been throughout his life one of the chief supporters 
of the Boston Society of Natural History, of which, indeed, he was 
one of the founders, occupying year by year important posts in con- 
nection with the society; and his influence upon it cannot easily be over- 
estimated. 

After giving up his editorial connection with the Boston Atlas and 
Traveller, Dr. Brewer eutered into business as a publisher and book- 
seller ; and retiriug from this a, lew years ago, he spent a year and a 
half in travelling in Europe, in the course of which he visited all the 
ornithological and oological establishments, and arranged special con- 
nections between their owners or the curators. Partly as the result of 
this visit, and partly of long-continued and persistent efforts, he became 
possessed of one of the linest general collections of eggs in the world, 
but especially rich in the Xorth American si)ecies. These collections he 
caused to be passed over at his death to the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology of Cambridge, where they are safely preserved, and constitute 
one of the most striking features of that great nuiseum. 

The death of Mr. James AV. jMilner, which occurred at his residence, 
AYaukegan, Illinois, on the Gth of January, 1S80, was a serious loss to 
the science of fish-culture. Mr. JMilner had been connected with the 
United States Fish Commission as assistant commissioner for many 
years past, having been in its service indeed, from the first year of its 
organization. He commenced his labors, as a collector of statistics in 
regard to the fisheries of the great lakes, the results of which appear 
in the rei)orts of the commission. In later years he had had charge 
more particularly of the division of the propagation of food-fishes, in 
the course of w hich he invented or brought into use man^^ important 
practical discoveries. In the course of his visits to different parts of 
the country he also took occasion to make extensive collections in 
natural history for the National Museum, all of which are recorded in 
its catalogues. 

Mr. Milner's illness was induced by a severe cold (taken in the spring 
of 1878,) which assumed a malarial tendency, and required his return to 
Lake Michigan for recuperation. He again assumed charge of his work 
in the autumn of that year, organizing the arrangements for the hatch- 
ing of codfish by the United States Fish Commisl^iou at Gloucester, in 
the months of October and November. His increasing indisposition, 
however, made it necessary for him to go to some other locality, and he 
returned to AVashington, and after spending a short time he went to Flor- 
ida, where he remained during the winter. 

He returned to Waukegan in the spring of 1879; but this season was 
exceptional!}" raw and trying on the lakes, and by the direction of his 



68 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

X)bysician lie visited Colorado for the summer. He, however, failed to 
improve, and was brought to Waukegan in the autumn, and after much 
suifering died, as stated, on the Gtli of January, 1880. 

xV. man of modest and agreeable demeanor, jMr. Milner, by careful obser- 
vation and study, had mastered the theory and practice of fish-culture, 
and had himself made many important improvements. His loss to the 
Fish Commission is one which it will be extremely difficult to replace. 

Mr. J. Homer Lane must be mentioned as a valued collaborator of 
the Institution, who died in this city May 3d of the past year. A grad- 
uate of Yale College, he commenced his career as a teacher. His high 
scientific and mathematical attainments having become known to the 
Superintendent of the United States Coast Survey, he was early ap- 
pointed to a position in that branch of the i)ublic service. About the 
year 1847, on the recommendation of Professor Henry, Mr. Lane was 
transferred to the United States Patent Office, as opening to him a more 
varied and active occupation ; and he discharged the responsible duties 
of an Examiner in that institution with a pains-taking fidelity for many 
years. On the death of Mr. Saxton, who had charge of the construc- 
tion and verification of the national and metric standards (under the 
Coast Survey Office), Mr. Lane was recalled to that bureau to fill this 
vacancy, — a position held by him till his death. 

Mr. Lane had given considerable attention and study to the mathe- 
matical theory of electricity, and in 1859 he conducted, at the request 
and iTjider the general supervision of Professor Henrj', a series of ex- 
periments for this Institution, on several points of scientific interest 
relating to the Atlantic telegraph, a brief notice of which investiga- 
tion was given in the Smithsonian Eeport for 1859, !>. 38. To Mr. Lane 
was also occasionally referred, for examination and report, communica- 
tions or memoirs requiring for their thorough treatment a special famili- 
arity with the higher mathematics. In 18GG, he undertook an elaborate 
investigation into the conditions of successive exi^ansion or rarefaction 
in gases, having particularly in view a more precise determination of 
the absolute zero of temperature. In these experiments he was assisted 
by apparatus specially constructed for him by the Institution. 
His fastidious desire for extreme accuracy led him to postpone the 
publication of results until it is feared that the valuable work actually 
accomplished by him in this direction will not be available for the pro- 
motion of knowledge among men, to which purpose he had so long and 
earnestly devoted himself. Mr. Lane was remarkable for the logical 
clearness of his mind and the strict conscientiousness of his moral 
nature. 

When Mr. William H. Ball returned, in 1873, from his labors in 
Alaska, under the direction of the United States Coast Survey, he 
brought with him a young Aleute, named GeoritE Tsaroff, Avho com- 
mended himself to him by his intelligence. With the aid of some 
persons interested in education, Mr. Dall secured for his protege an ex- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69 

cellent education in Michigan, in the course of wliicb lie learned to read, 
write, and speak the English language with great readiness. On com- 
pleting his course of education, he was brought to Washington as an 
assistant, and placed in charge of the large ethnological hall in the sec- 
ond story of the building, his duties being to keep everything in order 
and to act as a guide to visitors. These he performed with efficiency, 
himself constituting an extremely interesting exhibit — that of a native 
Indian, well educated and instructed, and able to explain the special 
objects and applications of many articles manufactured and used in his 
own country. 

I regret to say that this interesting assistant was attacked by con- 
sumption, and for greater convenience of careful treatment, he was re- 
moved to Providence Ilospital on the 2d of March, where he died on the 
8th of May. 

Among the deaths of those deserving special notice in this report 
is that of Mr. AVilliam Q. Force, who for many years had charge of 
the meteorological department of the Institution. He was the son of 
General Peter Force, of Washington, at one time mayor of the city, and 
well known for his devotion to the study of American history. His col- 
lection of books in this department was the largest in the country, and 
was purchased by the government for the Library of Congress. In tlic col- 
lection of these books and in the preparation of the "American Arcliives" 
Mr. William Q. Force was the principal assistant of his father. He also 
edited and i^ublished the "Army and Navy Chronicle and Scientific 
Eepository," and several works relating to history and statistics. He 
graduated at Columbian College in 1839, studied law, and in lSo7 took 
charge of the meteorological department of the Smithsonian Institution, 
discharging the duties of the position for eleven years with marked 
fidelity and ability. He resigned on account of an attack of illness, 
which caused a i^ermanent derangement of his nervous system, and he 
devoted the remainder of his life to literary i^ursuits and to quiet and 
unobtrusive deeds of charity. 

He held several important positions of honor and trust in connection 
with religious and educational enter])rises and establishments, in all of 
which he was noted for his scrupulous honesty, puriry, and fidelity. In 
all the relations of life he was a noble example of a man wholly actuated 
by Christian principle, and whose practice conformed rigidly to his pro- 
fessions. 

Berendt manuscripts. — The long-continued labors of Dr. Carl Her- 
mann Berendt, in Mexico and Central America, relating to the eth- 
nology and jihilology of the native tribes, jirosecuted to a certain degree 
under the auspices of the Institution, have been detailed in its iirevious 
reports at various times within the last twenty years and more; and it 
is with great regret that I have to announce the death of that gentleman 
in tlie city of Guatemala on the 12th of April, 1878. 

He left his valuable manuscripts and rare books with Mr. B. Wester- 



70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

manu, of Xew York, and many similar articles were in liis ovru rooms in 
Guatemala. These, by an arrangement with bis executor, Mr. Wester- 
manu, were gathered together by Mr. Francis Sarg, a fellow countryman, 
who was also a resident of Guatemala; and by the kind mediation of 
Capt. John M. Dow, forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution, filling 
five boxes. 

An inventory of this property was made by the Institution and trans- 
mitted to Mr. Westermann, who also had i)repared a catalogue of the 
first collection, the whole of which constitutes a very important mass of 
historical and scientific matter, both in print and manuscript; and it is 
to be hoped that some arrangement may be made by which this can be 
added to some public library in the country, and no better depository 
could be found than the Library of Congress. 

Although engaged for many years in the researches referred to, Dr. 
Berendt had printed but little, so that unless his manuscripts are care- 
fully edited and published, his life work will have left but little on record. 
With an assurance of long life and an ultimate oj^portunity of publica- 
tion, a feeling not uncommon among literary men. Dr. Berendt allowed 
the opportunity of presenting his labors to pass while aiming at further 
perfection. 

Donations. — A large fire-proof safe was presented to the Institution 
for the National Museum by the Herring Safe Company of New York ; a 
notice of which was given in the last Eeport. This safe has just been re- 
ceived, and is an admirable specimen of the well-known skill of this enter- 
prising company. It stands about seven feet high, and by its fine finish 
forms an attractive piece of furniture. It will prove a very useful re- 
ceptacle for small objects of special rarity and value belonging to the 
Museum. 

Mention should be made of several other contributions of interest. 
One of such has been a pair of Howe scales, i)resented by Messrs. F. P. 
May & Co., of Washington, the agents of the Howe Company. These 
scales have been ])laced in the entrance hall of the Institution, and are 
constantly in use for weigiiing visitors. 

Among the contributions to the Institution of a miscellaneous char- 
acter during the year is that of a hydro-pneumatic fire-extinguisher, pre- 
sented by the agent of the companj^ in Washington. This is claimed to 
possess specially valuable qualities which fit it for jiractical use in pub- 
lic and private establishments, and is kept in order for ready applica- 
tion should an emergency requiring it arise. 

Of the works published by the United States Government during the 
last few years none has had more popularity than the narrative. of 
the second arctic expedition made by Capt. C. F. Hall, edited b^' Prof. 
J. E. Nourse. Congress has ordered several editions of this work and 
placed copies of it for sale at the mere cost of paper and printing. In 
this work illustrations are given of Esquimaux life, manners, and cus- 



EEPORT OF THE SECTETARY. 71 

toms, tliG articles represented being specimens in the National Mnseum. 
During the last year the Secretary of the Navy has offered to the In- 
stitution the manuscripts, notes, plates, cuts, &c., of Captain IlalPs 
^york to be x>reserved in its archives. 

Loan of bools and apparatus. — The Smithsonian Institution has been 
l)roverbial, from its first establishment, for the liberality with which the 
use of books, ajiparatus, and specimens has been allowed whenever re- 
quired in the interest of science, the regulations of many institutions 
absolutely prohibiting the removal from their halls of such articles, not 
being at all enforced. It was found necessary, however, to establish 
some restrictions to the indiscriminate borrowing, as it was ascertained 
that in many cases the borrower was careless about returning the ob- 
jects obtained by him, so that Vtheu others required their use they were 
not available for the purpose. In some instances rare volumes of trans- 
actions of learned societies would be kept for years, and not uufrequently 
an entire set would be returned after the death of the borrower; in 
other cases, when called for, the report would be that they were not pro- 
ducible. 

In order to throw upon the borrower the onus of making a proper 
return without unnecessary delay, Professor Henry decided to require 
a deposit in money, or a certified check, f;xr in advance of the value of 
the object itself; in the case of the loan of a volume of transactions the 
money security called for representing the value of the entire series. 
This condition has given offense in some cases, persons thinking that 
the dei)0sit should be simplj^ of a money value equal to the value of the 
article borrowed. This, however, would not answer the purpose, as, in 
mauj' cases, individuals would be glad to obtain a rare work at cost; 
and as the Institution is not engaged in trade and needs its books and 
appaiatus tor its own research, and that of its collaborators, the })ropri- 
ety of the regulation has, I think, been fully vindicated. The required 
deposit for books amounts, generally, to from $25 to $100, and of course 
the borrower, whose money is in the hands of the Institution, does not 
leave it there longer than is necessary. When the book is returned 
the money is sent back aiul the transaction closed. This same regula- 
tion has been extended to the loan to parties of other articles having a 
definite money value. 

Loan of specimens. — As far as specimens of natural history are con- 
cerned the regulations are arranged on a different footing; and as a 
further means of preserving the integrity of the Smithsonian collections, 
the following form of -'receipt" from naturalists who may borrow its 
material, has been adopted by the Institution: 

[Locality Date ] 

" Eeceived from the Smithsonian Institution a collection of , 

corresponding to the accompanying list. I hereby accept them in trust 
upon the following conditions: First. That they are to be used for i^ur* 



72 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

poses of investigation, and returned in as good condition as they were 
received, and as soon as my work upon them is comiileted. Second. 
That no unique specimens constituting part of the reserve series of the 
]^ational 3Iuseum shall be mutilated. Third. That duijlicates when 
necessary may be dissected ; understanding by 'duplicate,' a specimen 
which is not necessary to illustrate variations of forms or range of geo- 
graphical distribution. Fourth. That the specimens when returned 
shall bo labeled with the names which I have employed in my publica- 
tions upon them. Fifth. That credit shall be given to the Smithsonian 
Institution in all publications based upon material furnished by it." 

[Signature of borrower.] 

Restoration of the Declaration of Independence. — Several years ago a 
commission was appointed by Congress (under an act approved August 
3, 187G), consisting of the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, and the Librarian of Congress, for the purpose 
of taking into consideration measures for the restoration of the faded 
aud now nearly illegible Declaration of Independence. Some conferences 
were held on this subject and some experiments made in regard to it, but 
without result. A meeting of the commission was held at the Depart- 
ment of the Interior on the 5th of May last, and, after discusjsion, it 
was decided that it was one of the subjects coming within the province 
of the National Academy of Sciences, and the problem was referred to 
Professor Rogers, president of the Academy, with the request to appoint 
a commission of scientific experts to investigate the whole subject and 
report to the Secretary of the Interior. No return has yet been made 
by this commission, but it is understood that the matter is receiving 
careful consideration. 

UNITED STATES FISH COMMISSION. 

GENERAL OBJECTS AND RESULTS. 

The relationship which your Secretary has borne for ten years to the 
United States Fish Commission as its chief, and the time required for 
the discharge of its responsibilities, makes it proper to furnish a brief 
statement of the objects and results of the commission, as showing 
thereby that its operations are quite in accordance with the purposes of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

The inception of the commission, on a very small scale, in 1871, and 
the rapid extension of its operations year by year, have all been chron- 
icled in the annual reports of the Institution ; and now that ten years 
have elapsed, the reports of the commission will, I trust, show its 
healthy growth and a sticcessful accomplishment of some, at least, of 
the objects which have been kept strictly in view from the outset. 

As explained in i)revious reports, the commission was first established, 
in 1871, for the i)uri)ose of investigating the alleged decrease of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73 

food-fishes of the country, and of inquiring as to the best methods, of 
remedying the decrease, should this be found to exist. It was not until 
the second year, or 1872, that the responsible duty of increasing the 
supply was added to the other functions of the connnission. 

In the preceding report of tlie Smithsonian Institution, for 1870, I 
have stated at length the plans and objects of the commission, and to 
this I refer for details. I may simply remark here that the division of 
"inquiry" has been held to involve a complete investigation of and re- 
port upon all the physical conditions of the Avaters of the United States, 
and the nature, numbers, and general relationships of their iuhabiftints, 
together with an account of the relationships of man to the same, in 
the way of methods and appliances of the tisheries, and the history and 
statistics of his labors. 

The second division, that of propagation, of course includes the pro- 
tection of the useful fishes and their multiplication, either by capturing 
the fish and transferring them from one point to another, or by the pro- 
cess of artificial impregnation of the eggs and the distribution of the 
young. 

The work of the inquiry is prosecuted, for the most part, directly un- 
der my own supervision, from stations at different points along the sea- 
coast, with a suitable number of assistants (volunteers for the most part) 
for making tlie nivestigations referred to. The specimens collected are 
placed in the hands of experts, by whom they are properly investigated 
and monographed, and the results published, with suitable illustrations 
in the Annual Eeports of the Commission. The collections made, usually 
in very large numbers, are worked up at the same time; the reserve col- 
lection preserved in the National Museum, and the duplicates distributed 
to the various educational establishments of the country, or exchanged 
for objects desired by the Museum. 

The propagation division is conducted either at some permanent sta- 
tions, such as those of the salmon, whitefish, and carp, or in temporary 
establishments, shifting their ground with tne season, as is the case in 
large part, with the shad stations. 

During the past year two additional subjects have occupied the atten- 
tion of the Commission; one, the preparation for the international dis- 
play of the fisheries of the United States at Berlin; and the other, the 
continuation of the census of the fisheries, undertaken in behalf of Gen- 
eral Walker, Superintendent of the Census. Special details in regard to 
these branches will be found elsewhere. 

j^ewport was the station selected for the prosecution of the work of 
inquiry into the fisheries in 1880, as representing a i)oint between 
two previous stations. Wood's IIoll and Noank. Since the year 1873 the 
Commission has been indebted to the Kavy Department for a steamer 
with which to carry on its investigations. This year, however, it was 
found possible to dispense, in large part, with extraneous aid, the Fish 



74 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Ilaicl;* the vessel referred to in a previous report, having been com- 
pleted and ready for sea. 

Her original purpose was that of a floating hatching establishment ; 
but she was not completed until some time in July, or after the spring 
hatching work was over. Her first service, therefore, was in the inquiry 
division of the Commission. She is a vessel of 484 tons, and provided 
with all the necessary conveniences for investigation, such as a power- 
ful hoisting engine and the necessary dredging and trawling apparatus. 
She i^roved admirably adapted to the requirements of the occasion. 

HA- personnel was furnished by the Nav^' Department, under the law 
of Congress that directed that she be placed on the same footing as the 
vessels of the Coast Survej^, which gave her the officers and a crew, with 
their subsistence, leaving to the Commission the running expenses, such 
as the cost of coal, oil, water, etc. Lieut. Z. L. Tanner, who had been 
in charge of the steamer SjieethceU, at Provincetown, in 1870, was placed 
in command by the Nsixy Department, with Mr. J. S. Smith as mate, 
Wm. B. Boggs as engineer, Geo. H. Reed as paymaster, and F. C. Van 
Vliet as surgeon, and a crew of 27 men. 

A large building, formerly used for the manufacture of shot, was 
rented from Mr. John H. Griswold; an adjacent wharf, with a number of 
buildings upon it, was also obtained for the service of the Commission. 

As in previous years, the superintendence of the work connected with 
the marine invertebrates was in charge of Professor Yerrill, of Yale Col- 
lege, assisted by J. H. Emerton as artist, Mr. Sanderson Smith of New 
York, and Mr. B. F. Koons and E. A. Andrews. Mr. Eichard Rathbun 
was an assistant of the Commission in the general work, and Mr. II. L. 
Osborn and Frederic Gardiner had charge of the fishes during the ab- 
sence in xVlaska of Dr. T. H. Bean. 

The census branch of the fisheries also had its quarters in the town. 

My own office, those of the laboratory and of the census, and the res- 
idence of Maj. T. B. Ferguson, assistant commissioner, were connected 
by telephone, for the more convenient transaction of business. 

I arrived in Newport with my party on the 9th of July, and was 
joined by Professor Yerrill a few days later. The steamer, however, did 
not reach Newport until the 2d of August, and, owing to various causes, 
did not get fairly at her work until about the 7th. The city wharf was 
hired Irom the city of Newport, M^here she lay when in port. The work 
was carried on with great zeal during the summer, and verj' important 
discoveries, both scientific and practical, were made, especially in the 
course of three visits to the Gulf Stream in September and October. 
On these occasions, the vessel by starting in the evening at 6 o'clock, 
and running out to a distance of about a hundred miles reached the Gulf 
Stream, and explored it for a period of 12 to 14 hours, and returned to 
l)ort on the succeeding night. The amount of life found along the west- 

*This vessel was designed by Mr. C. W. Copeland, of tho Liglit- House Board, and built under the 
direction of the Light-House Board, and the immediate supervision of Mr. Copeland and Lieut. Z. L. 
Tanner, U. S. K. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75 

ern edge of the Gulf Stream was enormously rich; of inollusca, not less 
than 175 diltereut species -were taken, forty being new to science. 
Twenty new deep sea fishes, some of them of a remarkable character, 
were secured. The most important observations, however, were those 
in regard to the Tile fish [Lopholofilus clmmdeonticeps), to whi(;li refer- 
ence was made in a previous report. The ascertained range of this Jish 
-was greatiy extended, showing the possibility of capturing it over a 
wide area. 

For the purpose of determiuing the ability to take this fish with an 
ordinary fishing smack a Noank vessel was chartered for the trial. Ow- 
ing to a threatening storm, however, the vessel was compelled to return, 
and nothing was done beyond the capture on a small line of an enor- 
mous sword-fish. 

Mr. G. Brown Goode, who had represented the United States at the 
Berlin Exhibition, returning, joined the party on the 17th of July and 
was, for the most part, occupied in connection with the fishery census. 

During the summer I visited Wood's Holl in the Flsli Ilaicl; for the 
purpose of inquiring into the possibility of making a station at that 
point, for the hatching of codfish. 

The work of the Commission at Xewport was closed about the begin- 
ning of October, and on the 7th of that month the Fltih Haul- returned 
to Wilmington for some additional apparatus, carrying a portion of the 
collection to New Haven, by the way, for the use of Professor Yerrill. 
After taking on board further hatching apparatus, the steamer came 
around to Washington, cruising along the edge of the Gulf Stream on 
her route, and making additional collections of importance. 

I left ]^ewport with my party on the 8th of October, closing operations 
for the season at that place. 

The control of so well equipped a steamer as the Fish Haicl- and the 
several visits to the Gulf Stream resulted in the acquisition of a large 
amount of material, equal almost to the aggregate of all our preceding- 
seasons. This has been put in hand and will, as rapidly as possible, be 
examined, the reserve series added to the collection of the Xatioual 
Museum, and the remainder distributed as heretofore. 

In the Report of the Institution for 1879 reference was made to the 
operations of the Fish Commission in connection with the artificial propa- 
gation of codfish at Gloucester, Mass. This work was continued into the 
beginning of the year 1880 and a large number of fish hatched out and 
liberated. These have remained for a considerable time in the harbor of 
Gloucester and its vicinity, and by their abundance and unusual ap- 
pearance attracted much attention. 

The work of cod hatching was again undertaken in the winter of 1881, 
in the little harbor at Wood's Holl, 3Iassachusetts. Facilities were 
granted by the Light-House Board at its depot ; the machiuerj^ was erected 
and everything in readiness for the work. The unusual severity of the 
winter, however, which froze up the shores, rendered it impossible to 



76 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

keep the fisli in tlieir pens, and prevented any measure of success. It 
is hoped that during normal seasons the propagation of the cod may be 
considered as a perfectly feasible undertaking, and one promising im- 
portant economical results. 

The operations of the Commission in connection with the hatching of 
&had have also been of increasing importance during the year. The 
work was commenced in Albemarle Sound, North Carolina, and many 
millions of fish were hatched out. A station was then established on 
the Potomac Eiver. By the courtesy of tlie authorities of the 'Nnxy 
Department, and especially of the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and 
Docks, a hatching station was extemporized for hatching out the eggs 
of the shad obtained by the steamer Lookout from the seines and gilhng 
stations down the Potomac, especially in the vicinity of Fort Washington. 

Another station was made at Havre de Grace, Maryland, and at the 
two places about 30,000,000 shad were successfully hatched out. A 
large proportion of these were necessarily placed in the ri\'ers whence 
the eggs were obtained. Many millions, however, were distributed by 
the messengers of the Commission to various localities throughout the 
United States, especially to the waters of the Mississippi Valley. 

The i^ropagation of the SahnonUkc has also been conducted with sat- 
isfactory results. The McCloud River station, for the cultivation of the 
Califoruia or Quinnat salmon, was in successful operation, and furnished 
many millions of eggs, which were distributed, as usual, to all parts of 
the United States. Some of these eggs went to Germany, Prance, and 
Holland, where they arrived in good condition, and were hatched out 
very satisfactorily. 

After an interval of several years, work was resumed at the statiou 
on the Penobscot Eiver for obtaining the eggs of the Penobscot salmon, 
and a distribution of these fish was made to the principal rivers of tlie 
Northern and Eastern States. 

An unusually large gathering of eggs of the land-locked salmon was 
made at the station on Grand Lalve Stream, this fish i)romising to be of 
great value in the cold, deej) lakes of the country. 

Work on a large scale in connection with the white-fish of the great 
lakes was commenced this year by establishing a station at Northvilte, 
Michigan, under the charge of Mr. Frank X. Clark. With the neces- 
sary number of assistants, Superintendent Clark obtained a bountiful 
supply of eggs in the adjacent lakes, and gathered into the hatching- 
house about 13,000,000. Some of these were distributed lo different 
parts of the country ; but by far the greater part were hatched out and 
placed partly in Lake Michigan, partly in Lake Huron, and i)artly in 
Detroit River. 

An interesting experiment was made in the artificial propagation of 
the striped bass or rock- fish of the Southern States — the eggs from a 
gravid female having been properly impregnated, a large number of 



EEPORT OF THE SECtlETAEY. 77 

young were liatclied out. This experiment, it is hoped, will be contin- 
ued in future years on a much larger scale. 

Perhaps the most important result of the work of the Commission in 
the line of the propagation of fish is that of the multiplication aud dis- 
tribution of the imported German carp, of which, as already explained, 
there aro three principal varieties — the scale, leather, and mirror carp. 
The distribution of the young of these fish was commenced in the au- 
tumn of 187:). A very large yield in 1S80 permitted them to be sent to 
a great many applicants throughout the country, some thousands in 
number. The demand, however, is increasing, and is likely, for some 
time, to more than k<^ep pace with the supply. It is gratifying to know 
that the etforts of the Commission to introduce this fish meet with favor- 
able recognition. 

An account of tlie operations of the United States Fish Commission 
daring the first decade of its existence, detailing somewhat fully its 
l)lan of work, and the scientific and economical results accomplished by 
it, was prepared by Mr. G. Brown Goode, and read before the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science at its Boston meeting, held 
August 28, 1880. This paper will be found in full in the appendix to this 
report. 

FISHERY CENSUS OF 1880. 

In July, 1880, an arrangement was made with General Francis A. 
Walker, Superintendent of the Tenth Census, by which an investiga- 
tion of the fisheries of the United States was undertaken as the joint 
enterprise of the United States Fish Commission and of the Census 
Bureau. It was decided that this investigation should be as complete 
as possible, and that both the United States Fish Commission and the 
Census Bureau should participate in its results. The preparation of a 
statistical and historical report upon the fisheries, to form one of the 
series to be presented by the Superintendent of the Census as the re- 
sult of his investigations in 1880, has been the main object of the work; 
but in connection with this statistical work, extensive investigation 
into the methods of the fisheries, into the distribution of the fishing- 
grounds, and the natural history of useful marine animals, has been 
and is being carried on. 

The direction of this investigation has been idaced in the hands of Mr. 
G. Brown Goode, who was appointed agent of the Census Ofiice, and 
who has been carrying on this work in addition to the xjerformance of his 
duties in connection with the Xatioiml JVluseum. The work which was 
begun on July 1, 1879, has been vigorously prosecuted since that time, 
and the final report will probably be presented as early as July, 1881. 

The plan of the investigation was drawn up before the beginning of 
the work and has been published in an octavo pamphlet of 54 pages, 
entitled " Plan of Inquiry into the History and Present Condition of the 
Fisheries of the United States." Washington: Government Printing 
Office. 1879. 



78 EEPOET OF THE SECEETARY. 

The scheme of investigation divided the work into the following 
departments : 

I. Natural history of marine products : Under this head was to be car- 
ried on the study of the useful aquatic animals and plants of the coun- 
try, as well as of seals, whales, turtles, fishes, lobsters, crabs, oysters, 
clams, i&c, sponges and marine plants and inorganic products of the 
sea, with reference to geographical distribution; size; abundance; mi- 
grations and movements; food and rate of growth; mode of repro- 
duction ; economic value and uses. 

II. The fish ing-groimds : Under this head are studied the geographical 
distribution of all animals sought by fishermen and the location of the 
fishing-grounds, while with reference to the latter are considered : loca- 
tion; topography; depth of water; character of bottom; temperature of 
water ; currents ; character of invertebrate life, «&c. 

III. The fishermen and fishing towns: Here are considered the coast 
districts engaged in the fisheries with reference to their relation to the 
fisheries, historically and statistically, and the social, vital, and other 
statistics relating to the fishermen. 

IV. Apparatus and methods of captvre: Here are considered all the 
forms of apparatus used by fishermen, boats, nets, traps, harpoons, »S:c., 
and the methods employed in the various branches of the fishery. Here 
each special hind of fishery, of which there are more than fifty in the 
United States, is considered separately, with regard to its methods, its 
history, and its statistics. 

V. Prodiicts of fisheries : JJnder this head are studied the statistics 
of the yield of American fisheries, past and present. 

VI. Freparation, care of, and mannfacture of fishery products : Here 
are considered the methods and thev arious devices for utilizing fish 
after they are caught, with statistics of capital and men employed, &c.: 
preservation of live fish; refrigeration; sun-drying; smoke-drying; i)ick- 
ling; hermetically canning; fur dressing; whalebone preparation; isin- 
glass manufacture; ambergris manufacture; fish-guano manufacture; 
oil renderihg, &c. 

VII. Economy of the fisheries : Here are studied financial organization 
and methods; insurance; labor and capital; markets and market prices; 
lines of trafiic; exports, imports, and duties. 

VIII. Protection and culture : This includes all kinds of supervision 
by the government, such as legislation; bounties and licenses; fishery 
treaties ; public fish culture. • 

The various inquiries provided for in this scheme of investigation 
have been made in three ways. 

First. By correspondence with persons in different parts of the country. 

Second. By a systematic overhauling and compilation of past records, 
not the least among which are the local newspapers. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79 

Third. By sending special agents to make personal inquiries in 
every part of the United States where the fisheries are of considerable 
importance. 

The last-named method has of course been by far the most important 
and the most successful, and it is unfortunate that the length of time 
and the amount of money available ha^'e not permitted the employment 
of a larger number of assistants in this branch of the work, and have 
not adowed them to devote as much attention to working out specific 
questions as has in many cases seemed imperatively necessary. 

Tlie fishery iadustry is of such great importance and is undergoing 
such constant changes that a visit of a few days, even by the most com- 
l)etent experts, has invariably proved unsatisfactory. They have been 
able to collect only the more important facts, leaving mauy subjects of 
interest untouched. 

The field work has been carried on by the following special agents: 
(1.) Coast of Maine, east of Portland, E. E. Earll and Capt. J. W. Col- 
lins. (2.) Portland to Plymouth (except Cajie Ann) and eastern side of 
Buzzard's Bay, W. A. AVilcox. (3.) Cape Ann, A. Howard Clark. (4.) 
Cape Cod, F. W. True. (5.) Provincetown, Capt. N. E. Atwood. (G.) 
Ehode Island and Connecticut, west to the Connecticut Eiver, Ludwig 
Kumlien. (7.) Long Island and north shore of Long Island Sound and 
west to Sandy Hook, Fred. Mather. (8.) ]!^ew York City, Barnet Phil- 
lips. (9.) Coast of Xew Jersey, E. E. Earll. (10.) Phdadelphia, C. W. 
Smiley and W. V. Cox. (11.) Coast of Delaware, Capt. J. W. Collins. 
(12.) Baltimore and the oyster industry of Maryland, E. 11. Edmunds. 
(13.) Atlantic coast of Southern States, E. E. Earll. (14.) Gulf Coast, 
Silas Stearns. (15.) Coast of California, Oregon, and Washington, Prof. 
D. S. Jordan and C. H. Gilbert. (IG.) Puget Sound, James G. Swan. 
(17.) Alaska seal fisheries, Dr. T. H. Bean. (18.) Great Lakes fishery, 
Ludwig Kumlien. (19.) Eiver fisheries of Maine, C. G. Atkins. (20.) 
The shad and alewife fisheries, Col. Marsludl McDonald. (21.) Oyster 
fisheries, Ernest lugersoll. (22.) Lobster and crab fisheries, Eichard 
Eathbun. (23.) Turtle and terrapin fisheries, F. W. True. (2-1.) The 
seal, sea elephant, and whale fisheries, A. Howard Clark. 

In addition to the field assistants already mentioned, a staff of assist- 
ants from the beginning have been at work in the office of the division, 
carrying on correspondence, searching past records, and i)reparing the 
report for publiciition. Mr. C. W. Smile}', Mr. Jas. Temple Brown, and 
Mr. George S. Hobbs have been connected with the work from its start, 
and from a later date Mr. J. E. Eockwell, Mr. C. W. Scudder, ^Ir. E. I. 
Geare, Mr. G. P. Merrill and others have been thus employed. A num- 
ber of clerks liave also been detailed for this work by the Superintendent 
of the Census, at one time as many as eight. A large part of the clerical 
force is under the direction of Mr. C. W. Smiley, who has in special 
charge the correspondence and the statistical and compiling worlc. 

Mr. William H. Dall, of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 



80 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

was detailed hj the Superintendent, Captain Patterson, to visit Alaska 
and tlie Arctic Ocean, for the ])urpose of obtaining information in re- 
gard to the Alaska coast, a work upon which Mr. Dall has been engaged 
for many years. Permission for Dr. Bean to accompany Mr. Dall was 
readil^^ obtained from Captain Patterson, and the voyage from San 
Francisco was niade in the schooner Yulcon, of the Coast Survey, a ves- 
sel originally built under Mr. Dall's direction for service in the Alaskan 
waters. 

Mr. William J. Fisher, tidal observer at Kodiak, also contributed im- 
portant material of the same general character. As the result of these 
several explorations, over one hundred boxes and packages of natural 
history collections have been received by the Institution, all more or 
less incidental to the census inquiries made by the same i)arties. 

One of tlie most important reports of Dr. Bean's investigations was 
the discovery that cod and halibut of the Alaskan waters were identical 
with the same species as those in the North Atlantic, and consequently 
all the conditions of pursuit and preservation used in the east could be 
emidoyed approiiriately in the western seas. 

BERLIN INTERNATIONAL FISHERY EXHIBITION. 

Among recent organizations in Europe for the purpose of developing 
home industries, one of the most important is the Deutsche Fisclierei- 
Verein, founded in 1871, for the purjiose of developing the fisheries 
of Germany, both inland and maritime, and of introducing improved 
methods of fish culture and new varieties of fishes. The organization 
is composed of some of the most eminent naturalists and pisciculturists 
of Germany, and also includes many personages of the highest rank in 
the empire who are most interested in the welfare of the State. 

For the purpose of bringing together a display illustrating the meth- 
ods and results of the fisheries and fish culture of the Old World, ar- 
rangements were made for holding an international fisheries exhibition 
in Berlin in the spring of 1880, and invitations were issued about 
eighteen months before, asking the co-operation of governments, asso- 
ciations, and persons iiiterested generally. The invitation to the United 
States to i^articipate was transmitted to the Secretary of State in the 
winter of 1878-79, but no action was taken by Congress. This was a 
source of great regret to the German Government, as well as to the 
immediate promoters of the enterprise, and urgent appeals were made 
through the German and American ministers for action. A second 
communication made by the Secretary of State about the beginning of 
1880 was more successful, a bill introduced by Mr. Deuster, member of 
the House from Michigan, being readily- passed, appropriating $20,000 
to enable the United States Fish Commission to make the exhibition on 
the part of the United States. 

I was called to appear before the Senate Committee on Foreign 
Eelations on the 10th of February, and explained the x>roposed display, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

and gave some reasons v^hy it would be to the interest of the United 
States to participate in it. The Senate committee reporting favorably, 
the bill became a law, and appropriations were made to carry out its 
provisions. 

My duties in connection with the Smithsonian Institution, the Na- 
tional Museum, and the Fish Commission made it impossible for ms to 
attend the exhibition, and Mr. G. Brown Goode, the curator of the 
Museum, was appointed as the commissioner in charge, and immediate 
preparations were commenced for the occasion. 

Of course the time for preparation was very short, as the exhibition 
was to be opened on the 20th of April, giving nearly eighteen months 
less time than that enjoyed for the purpose by most of the other par- 
ticipants. Fortunately, however, the components of the exhibition of 
the fishery and fish-cultural interests of the United States made at the 
International Exhibition of 187G at Philadelphia were available for the 
purpose, and a selection from these was made by Mr. Goode, with the 
assistance of Mr. True, and invitations for contributions of later mate- 
rial were promptly responded to. The most important possible addi- 
tions to the display of 1876 consisted in the improved apparatus for fish 
culture, and in the samples of preparations of prepared fish, both hav- 
ing made vast progress during the intervening four years. 

The United States Fish Commission proposed to display, either in 
original apparatus or in models, the new methods of hatching fish with 
the assistance of steam power, as devised by Mr. T. B, Ferguson, of the 
Fish Commission, and especially to show the model of the new fish- 
hatching steamer Fish Hawk, to be used as a floating hatching estab- 
lishment in the proi:)agation of shad and other useful fishes. The model 
of the new vessel was on a scale of about half an inch to the foot, and 
that of the fish-hatching apparatus on a scale of one-sixth the actual 
size. An enormous number and variety of samples of mackerel, cod, 
smelts, crabs, oysters, lobsters, and other marine products were sup- 
I)lied in the different forms of dried, powdered, salted, smoked, and 
canned, either in oil or in spices. Certain firms were invited to furnish 
their special apparatus for the capture of fish, and no time was lost in 
making use of the short interval remaining. This work was carried on 
so successfully under Mr. Goode's administration that it became jjossible 
to ship a first load, of some thousands of cubic feet, on the 28th of Feb- 
ruary, the last of the lot being transmitted on the 24th of March. The 
total amount of freight thus sent forward consisted of about 12,000 
cubic feet. 

With most commendable liberality, the North German Lloyd Co., at 
the suggestion of its agents in New York, Messrs. Oelrichs & Co., agreed 
to transmit and return all the packages of the Commission free; and 
not to be behind a foreign corporation in this spirit, the great lines of 
roads between Washington and Baltimore and New York, namely, the 
Baltimore and Ohio, the Baltimore and Potomac, the Philadelphia, Wil- 
S. Mis. 31 6 



82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mington and Baltimore, and the Pennsylvania, agreed likewise to cairy 
the packages free. The greater part of the exhibit of the United States 
was shipped from Baltimore by the Bremen steamers, althongh most 
of the packages concentrated at New York were embarked from that 
city, as also Mr. Goode's immediate staff, consisting of Mr. F. \Y. True 
and Mr. J. E. Kockwell of his ofiice force, with Mr. Fred Mather, expert 
n fish culture, Capt. J. W. Collins, expert in fisheries, and Mr. Joseph Pal- 
mer in charge of the models and casts. Mr. Goode left Washington on 
the IGth of March and sailed in the Bremen steamer Weclcar on the 20th, 
the company granting a concession of one-fourth of the fare. 

A large portion of the goods were found in Bremen on the arrival ot 
the party, and these were sent forward to Berlin and uni)acked in time 
for very satisfactory opening of the Exhibition on the 20th of April. 
Some smaller collections, sent at a later date, were received subsequently. 
A large amount of space had been assigned to the United States, but 
this being inadequate a jiortion of that granted to Great Britain, and 
not occupied by her exhibitors, was added. The section of the United 
States was ornamented by a large number of flags lent for the i)uri)ose 
by the Navy and War Departments, and the display as a whole was very 
effective. 

It is now a matter of history that the United States bore off the chief 
honors of the occasion, the sui^erlatives of the critics being exhausted 
in their praises of its method, richness, and great intrinsic value. Indeed 
the entire collection of the remaining portion of the International Ex- 
hibit of Fish and Fisheries would not have made a single exhibit g. ' 
anything like the importance of that of the United States. In illustration 
of this fact it may be stated that the grand i)rize given by the Emperor 
of Germany to the Exhibition, for the best display, was awarded to the 
United States. This consisted of a large vase, three feet high, beauti- 
fully worked in silver and gold, and costing over $2,000. In addition 
to the grand prize there were numerous other awards in the way of 
medals of gold, silver, and bronze to contributors from this country, and 
the number of these awards would have been much greater but ibr the 
fact that the greater part of these contributions were made as j)art of that 
of the United States Fish Commission. The same policy was pursued 
there as at the Philadelphia exhibition; where objects were presented 
to the Institution and to the United States, they were entered for special 
consideration as individual exhibits; but wliere they were purchased for 
the exhibition they became the property of the United States, and their 
individuality was lost in the general display. Many persons who pre- 
ferred to receive the comparatively slight money-value of the objects ob- 
tained from them, were greatly disappointed on finding that, however 
meritorious, their articles were passed over by the judges and no awards 
made for them. 

It was originally supposed that the exhibition would close on the 1st 
of June, after a six weeks' display. Very much interest, however, was 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83 

felt iu the diisplay, aud it was so much more successful than had been 
expe'^,ted that it was concluded to keep it over until the 1st of July. 
This involved an additional four weeks' detention of the party, and of 
course increased the expense. Thanks, however, to Mr. Goode's careful 
administration, I am happy to say that the work was finished and all 
the exhibits returned to Washington within the appropriation, a few 
dollars having been paid into the Treasury as the surx)luR. Owing to 
the care with which the articles were packed, everything arrived in per- 
fect condition at its destination; indeed, out of the large number of 
plaster casts very few required any treatment for their proper exhibition. 
This was in marked contrast to the experience of the British portion of 
the exhibit, which, although it was much smaller in extent, was almost 
utterly destroyed in transit. 

Acting under his instructions, Mr. Goode disposed of some of the more 
bulky and least costly articles, such as the whale boat and a number of 
the dories, &c., to various governments and other establishments in ex- 
change for desired objects belonging to the European divisions. This 
somewhat reduced the bulk of the shipment, but not very greatly. The 
entire lot of at least 10,000 cubic feet was brought by a single vessel of 
the German Lloyds line from Bremen to Baltimore, and thence by the 
Baltimore and Ohio Eailroad, aud placed in the new National Museum 
Building. The exhibition will be more fully discussed in a report now 
being prepared, which in accordance with the resolutions of Congress 
will also treat of the present condition of the fisheries and fish-culture 
of Europe. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

SPENCER F. BAIRB, 
Secretary of ISmitlisonian Institution. 

WASHiNaTON, D. C, January^ 1881. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



STATISTICS OF EXCHANGES, 1880. 
I. — Foreign Exchange. 

BOXICS AND PAIICELS KECEIVED IN 1880. 



Boxes. 



Parcels. 



I. — For home distribution : 

From Argentine Confederation 

From Belgium 

From Chile 

From P^ngland 

From England, for Library of Congress 

From Franco 

From G erniany 

Fiom Holland 

From Italy - 

From Mexico 

From Russia 

Total 

II. — For distribution abroad: 
O. From government drpartmeuts : 

Agricultur.il Department 

Bui'eau of Ktlmology 

Chief Signal Oflice' 

Coast Survey 

Engineer Bureau 

Geological Survey (AVlieclor) 

Geological Survey ( Powell) 

Interior Department 

Naval Observatory 

Ordnance Dejiartnient 

Smithsonian Institution (Fish Commission and National Museum included) 
Surgeon-General's Office 

6. From miscellaneous institutions and individuals 

Total, of which 71 contain specimens of natural history. 



Parcels. 
1 

13 

201 

10 

105 

8.^>1 

110 

801 

7S:! 

1.33 

3, IM 

3 



^, 2-27 
8, 948 



G, C70 



14, 17.-) 

20, S45 



BOXES SENT ABROAD IN ISSO. 



Country. 



Argentine Confederation 

Belgium 

Brazil 

Chile 

Cuba 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Holland 

Italy 

Japan 

Liberia 

Mexico 

New South "Wales 



Number 
of boxes. 



Country. 



New Zealand . . . 

Norway 

Polvnesia 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Kussia 

Samoa 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Victoria 

Tot.al 



Number 
of boxes. 



Representing, in bulk, 1,631 cubic feet and weighing 52,42.5 pounds. 

Besides the above, there are 13 boxes ready for and awaiting orders for .shipment to Italy. 
Exchanges for Canada are included in the report on domestic exchanges. 

«5 



86 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

SHIPPING AGEXIS OF SMITIISOXIAN EXCHANGES. 



Countries. 



Agents. 



Argentine Confederation 
Bel>;ium 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

Chile 

Coslr.. Rica 

Cuba 

Denmaik 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

ELiiland 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Guatemala 

Hayti 

Italy 

Jamaica 

Japan 

Liberia 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

Kew South Wales 

Xew Zealand 

Norway 

Peru 

3'hilippine Islands 

Polynesia 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Kussia 

South Australia 

Spain 

Sweden , 

Switzerland 

Syria 

Turtey 

Tasmania 

TTrugnay 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

West Indies 



Carlos Caranza (& Co.), consul for the Confederation in New York. 
White Cross Lino of Steamers of Antwerp (Funch, Edye & Co., agents), 

New York. 
Joseph S. Spinney, New York. 
Charles Mackall, Vice-consul, Baltimore. Merchants' Line of Steamers, 

New York. 
1). DeCastro, consul, New York. 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York. 
Consul-general for Spain, New York. 
Ilenrick Braem, consul for Denmark, New York. 
Thomas E. Bixby & Co., Boston. 
A. Ilores, New York. 
S. L. Merchant & Co., New York. 
Abo, Wyburg, Wasa and Finland Steam Navigation Company of Hull; 

and Massey & Sawyer, Hull. 
CompagnieG6n6rale Transatlantique (L. deBebian, agent), New YorK. 
North German Lloyd (Oelrichs & Co., of New York ; Schumacher & 

Co., of Baltimore). Hamburg-American Packet Comiiany (Kun- 

hardt & Co.), New York. 
British and North American HoyalMail Steamship Company (Vernon 

H. BrowTi & Co., agents). New York. Baltimore and Ohio Kailroad 

foreign freight department, Baltimore. 
D. W. I5otassi, consul fm- ( iicece. New York. 
Jacob Baez, consul for Guatemala, Now York. 

Atlas Steamship Company (Pim,Forwood & Co., agents), New York. 
Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson & Bro., agents). New York. 
Steamship lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, New Provi- 
dence (C. W. Mallory & Co., agents). New York. 
Kentaro Yanagiyo, consul for Japan, San Francisco. 
American Colonization Society. 
Juan N. Navarro, consul for Mexico, New York. 
Netherland- American Steam Navigation Companj' (H. Cazaux, agent) 

New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 

Christian Bors, consul for Sweden and Norway, New York. 
Joseph S. Spinney, Xi'w York. 
Spanish consul, San Francisco. 

Mr. Severance, consul for Polynesia, San Francisco. 
Gustav Amsink, consul for Portugal, New York. 
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign freight department, Baltimore. 

Queensland department (Hon. A. McAllister), London. 
W. Webtskv, consul-general. New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
Consul general for Spain, New York. 

Christian Bors, consul for Sweden and Norway, New York. 
North German Lloyd (Schumacher & Co.), Baltimore, and Consul von 

lleyman, Bremen, Germany. 
M. J. Chrysoveloni & Co , Liverpool, England. 
Turkish Legation, Washington. 
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad foreign freight department, Baltimore, 

and Crown agents for the colonics, London, England. 
William H. T. Hughes, general C(msul for Urugiiay, New York. 
Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., Now York. 
Thomas Donnison, New York (for Antigua) ; C. W. Mallory & Co., New 

York (for San Domingo); Wilson & Asmus, New York (for Turks 

Islands) ; Thomas Bland, New York ; H. B. Bailey & Co., New York. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87 

AGENCIES FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGES. 



Algeria 

Capo Coloaies. 

Esypt 

Liberia 

Mauritius 

St. Helena 



AMERICA. 



British America 

Central America 

Costa Rica 

Guatemala 

Mexico 

West Indies : 

Bahamas 

Barbadoes 

Cuba 

Jamaica 

Trinidad 

Turks Island 

South America : 

Arsentine Republic. 

Bolivia 

Brazil 



Chile 

Colombia 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Peru 

TTrusTuay 

Venezuela 



ASIA. 



China 

India 

Japan 

Java 

Philippine Islands 



AUSTRALASIA. 



New South "Wales 

Queensland 

South Australia . . 

Victoria 

New Zealand 

Tasmania 



EUROPE. 



Austria-Hungary . 

Belgium 

Denmark 

Prance 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Iceland 

Italy 

Netherlands 

Norway 

Portugal 

Russia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 



POLYNESIA. 

Sandwich Islands 



Commission Fran^aise des fichanges Intemationaux, Paris, France. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

Institut figyptien, Alexandria, Egypt. 

College of Liberia, Monrovia. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, Loudon, England. 



Geological Survey Office, Montreal, Canada. 

('apt. J. M. Dow, general agent. 

University of Costa Rica, San Jos6. • 

Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais, Guatemala, 

El Museo Nacional, Mexico. 

Nassau Public Library, New Providence. 
Government Meteorological Office, Bridgeton. 
Royal University, Havana. 
Royal Society of Arts, Kingston. 
Scientific Asbociation, Port-of-Spain. 
Public Library of Grand Turk Island. 

Mu.ieo Publico, Buenos Ayres. 

University, Chuquisaca. 

Commissiio Central Braziloira de Pormuta^oes IntemacioDaes, Rio 

Janeiro. 
Universidad, Santiago. 

Sociedad do Naturalistas Colombianos, Bogota. 
Surinaamsche Koloniaale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 
Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, Quito. 
Biblioteca Nacional, Lima, 
l^ureau de Statistique, Montevideo. 
Sociedad de Ciencias Fisicas y Naturales, Caracas. 



William Wesley, London, England. 

William Wesley, London, England. 

Imperial University, Xokio. 

Bataav'sche Genootschap vanKunsten en Wetenschappen, Batavia. 

Royal Economical Society, Manila. 



Royal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 
Government Meteorological Oliservatbry, IJrisbane. 
Astronomical ObservatiSry, Adelaide. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 
Parliamentary Library, Wellington. 
Royal Society of Tasmania, Hol^artown. 



Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 

Commission Beige d'l5changes Int«m.ationaux, Brussels. 

Kong. Dansko Videnskahs Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Commission Francjaiso des iSchanges Intemationaux, Paris. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzig. 

AVilliam Wesley, London. 

National Library of Greece, Athens. 

K. Danske Vidcnskabs Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Ulrico Hoepli, Milano. 

Bureau Scientifique, Harlem. 

Kongliga Norske Frederiks Universitet, Christiania. 

Escola Polytechnica, Lisbon. 

L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg. 

R. Academia de Ciencias, Madrid. 

Kongelige Svenska Veteuskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 

EidgeniJssensche Bundes Kanzlei, Bern. 

Legation, Washington, D. C. 



Royal Hawaiian ^Agricultural Society, Honolulu. 



88 



ArPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



FOREIGN INSTITUTIONS IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

DECEMBER 31, 1880. 



Algeria 6 

Argentine Confederation 17 

Australia and Tasmania 47 

Austria-Hungary 145 

Belgium IW 

BoUvia 1 

Brazil 11 

British Amoiica 21 

British Guiana 3 

Cape Colonies and St. Helena 7 

Central America 2 

Chile 10 

China 7 

Colombia 3 

Denmark 31 

Dutch Guiana 1 

Ecuador 1 

Esypt 8 

France 3C5 

Germany 576 

Great Britain and Ireland 422 

Greece 1') 

Holland 70 

Icelan<l 14 

India 36 



Italy 

Japan 

Java 

Liberia 

Mauritius 

Mexico 

Now Zealand 

Norway 

Paraguay 

Peiu 

Philippine Islands 

Portugal 

Kussia 

Sandwich Islands 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

West Indies 

International societies . 



198 



4 

18 

17 

30 

1 

4 

3 

37 

160 

2 

26 

24 

78 

13 

5 

2 

12 
7 



Total 2,602 



II. — Domestic Exchanges. 

LIST OF PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE, AND 
DISTRIBUTED TO THE FOLLOWING NAMED INSTITUTIONS AND INDIVIDUALS IN THE 
UNITED STATES AND BRITISH AMERICA. 

UNITED STATES. 



Recipients. 



Pack- 
ages. 



Tuscaloosa: 
Geological Survey of Alabama . 

ARKANSAS. 

Holly Grove : 
Literarv Institute 

Litilc Rock : 
Governor of the State 



CALIFOKXIA. 

Oakland: 
University 

Sacramento : 
Agricultural and Horticultural Society 

State Agricultural Society 

State Library 

San Francisco: 

Academy of Science 

California Historical Society 

Governor of the State 

Jlercantilo Library Association 

Microscopical Society 

COLORADO. 

Denver: 
Governor of the State 



CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 

American Philological Association 

Library, Young Men's Institute 

Mur;^hy Philosiijiliii al Association 

State Agficullural Society 

"Watkinson and Connecticut Historical So 

ciety 

"Watkinson Reference Library 

Middletown: 
"Wesleyan University 



Recipients. 



Connecticut— Continued. 

New Haven : 

American Oriental Society 

American Journal of Arts and Sciences . . . 

Connecticut Academy of Sciences 

Observatory of Yale College 

Peabody Museum 

Shcilield Scientific School 

Tale College 

DISTRICT OF COLUMDIA. 

Georgetown : 

College . ." 

Observatory 

Washington: 

Agricultural Department 

Anthropological Society 

Army JSfedieal Museum 

Belgian Legation 

Board of Health 

Bureau of Construction and Repair -■ 

Census Bureau 

Chinese Lecation 

Chit f Sigual Oflice 

Coast Survey 

Columbian University 

Cosmos Club 

Education, Bureau of 

Engineer Bureau U. S. A 

Entomological Commission 

Fish Cominission 

General Land Office 

GeoldLiieal Survev of the Territories 

Hydrographic Oflice 

Indian Bureau 

Indian Commissioners 

Interior Department 

Institution for the Deaf and Dumb 

Library of Congress 

Light House Board 

Marine Hospital 

Medical Association 

Medicine and Surgery, Bureau of 



Pack- 

ages. 



24 

44 

111 

2 

1 

G 

18 



1 

3 

118 

7 
1 
3 
1 
8 
1 

2» 

58 
2 
1 

IS) 

27 
3 
4 
6 

68 
D 
3 
2 
9 
1 

44 
2 
2 

44 
1 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



89 



List of packages received by the Smithsonian lustiltction, <j-c. — Continued. 
UNITED STATES— Continued. 




District of Columbia — Continuod. 

Mint Bureau 

Katioual Academy of Sciences 

Kational Museum 

Kautical Almanac 

Kaval Olisi'ivatory 

Navi<j,ati(.iu, Uiiieau of 

Ka V y Depaitment 

Ordnance Department 

Patent Office 

ProvostMarshalGeneral's Office 

vState Department 

Statistics, Bureau of 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Treasury Department 

"War Department 

GEOUGIA. 

Atlanta: 
City Library 

Aui^usta: 
Medical College 

Savannah : 
Georgia Historical Society 

ILLINOIS. 

Bloomington : 
Museum of Natural History 

Carbondale: 
Southern Illinois Normal University 

Chicago: 

Academy of Sciences 

Astronomical Society 

Dearboin Observatoiy 

Free Library 

Observatory 

Public Library . 

Eush Medical' College 

State Microscopical Society 

University 

Normal : 
Illinois Museum of Natural History 

Ottawa: 
Academy of Natural Science 

Springfield: 
State Library 

Eoek Island : 
Augustana College 

INDIANA. 

Indianapolis: 

Academy ot Sciences 

Bureau of Statistics and Geology 

Geological Survey of Indiana 

Owen Cabinet 

IOWA. 

Davenport : 
Academy of Sciences 

Des Monies: 

Analyst 

Governor of Iowa, 

State Library 

State University 

Dubuque: 
Iowa Inst jtnte of Science and Arts 

Iowa City: 

Iowa Weather Service 

University of Iowa 

KANSAS. 

Lawrence : 
Academy of Science 

Topoka: 

Academy of Science 

Kansas Historical Society 



3 

111 

5 

15 

88 

7 

2 

3 

58 

1 

4 

23 

95 



KENTUCKY. 

Frankfort: 
Geological Survey of Kentucky 

Lexington : 
Transylvania Medical College 

Louisville: 
Medical Department, University of Louis- 
ville 

Public Library 

LOUISIANA. 

Baton Eouge : 

State University 

New Orle.TOS : 

Academy of Science 

L'Ath6u6e 

Medical Department, University of Lou- 
isiana ." 

State Library , 

MAINE. 

Augusta : 

Commissi jner of State 

Natural History and Geolo£ical Society . . . 

Brunswick: 

Bowc'oin College 

Historical Society 

Portland : 
Society of Natural History 

Watorville: 
Colby University 

SIAUYLAND. 

Annapolis : 
United States Naval Academy 

Baltimore: 

Academy of Sciences 

American Journal of Chemistry 

xVmericau Journal of Mathematics 

Historical Society , 

•Jolius Hopkins University 

Maryland Institute 

I'eabody Institute 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst: 

Amherst College 

Boston : 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences . . . 

American Gynecological Society 

American Naturalist 

American Social Science Assooia,liou 

American Statistical Association 

Athiurt'uui 

Boston llos])ital 

Boston Public Library 

Boston Scientific Society 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Bowditcli Library ". 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 

Christian Ilegister 

City Lilirarv 

Entomological Club "Psyche". 

Massachusetts Historical and Genealogical 

Society. ' 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

]SIayor of the city 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

New England Historic and Genealogical 

Society 

Prison Discipline Society 

Public Free Library - 

State Bo;ird of Agi icnlture 

State Board of Charities 

State Board of Health 

State Library 



3 
1 

4 
1 
IC 
1 
179 
4 
3 
1 
1 
1 

3 

2 

1 

10 

3 
1 
1 
I 
t 
12 



90 



APPEJJDIX TO THE REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 



List of j)ackages received by the Smithsonian Institution, ^-c. — Continued. 
UNITED STATES— Continued. 



Kecipients. 



Massachusetts — Continned. 

Cambridge : 

Botanical Museum 

Entomological Club 

Harvard College 

Harvard College Observatory 

Lawrence Seientilic School 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 

2J uttall Ornithological Club 

•Pea body Museum 

Jamaica Plain: 
Bussey Institution 

Salem : 
American Association for the Advancement 

of Science 

American Naturalist 

American Oriental Society 

Essex Institute 

Peabody Academy 

Wiiliamstovvn : 
Astronomical Observatory 

Worcester: 
American Antiquarian Society 

>nCHIGAN. 

Ann Arbor: 

Geological Survey of Michigan 

Observatory 

Society of Agriculture 

IJnive'rsity 

Cold water: 
Michigan Library Association 

Detroit : 

Geological Survey of Michigan 

State Agricultural Society 

Lansing: 

State Board of Health 

State Library 

MINNESOTA. 

Minneapolis : 

Academy of Sciences 

University 

Saint Paul: 
Chamber of Commerce 

Historical Society of Minnesota 

jnssouRi. 

Glasgow: 
Morrison ( )bservatory 

Jeffers(m: 
State Board of Agriculture 

Kansas City: 
Kansas Review of Science, Arts, and In 
dustry 

Rolla : 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

School of Mines .' 

Saint Louis : 

Academy of Science 

Mercantile Library 

Peabody Academy ; 

Public Library 

Public School Library 

State Board of Agriculture , 

Washington University 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Concord : 
New Hampshire Historical Society 

Hanover: 

Dartmouth College 

Observatory 



Pack- 
ages. 



132 
2 
2 
1 
6 



Recipients. 



jPack- 

ages. 



NEW JEUSEY. 

Hoboken : 
Stevens Institute of Technology 

Newark : 
New Jersey Historical Society 

New Brunswick: 

Geological Society of New Jersey 

Rutgers School 

Princeton : 

Green School of Science 

College of New Jersey 

Observatory 

NEW YORK. 

Albany : 

Adirondack Survey Office 

Albany Institute 

Dudley Observatory 

lusuiance Depart ment 

New York Medical Society 

Secretary of State 

State Agiicultural Society 

State Cabinet of Natural History 

State Library 

State Museum of Natural History 

University 

Brooklyn : 

Brooklyn Library 

Entomological Society 

Mercantile Library 

Buffalo : 

Bnffali> Historical Society 

Bulialo Prai tital School 

Bulialo Soiiity of Natural Sciences 

Clinton : 
Litchlield Observatory of Hamilton College 

Ithaca : 
Cornell University 

New York City : 

Academy of Medicine 

Academy of Science 

American Agriculturist 

American Chemical Society 

American Chemist 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geog:r-aphical Society 

American Institute 

American Institute of Architects 

American Journal of Chemistry 

American Journal of Microscopy 

American Society of Civil Engineers 

A stor Library 

Chamber of Commerce 

College of Physicians and Surgeons 

Columbia College 

Cooper Union 

Engineering and Mining Journal 

Lenox Library 

Manufacturer and Builder 

Mayor of the City 

Mercantile Library Association 

Meteorological Observatory 

Metropolitan Museum of Arts 

Museum of Natural History 

New York Historical Society 

New York Medical Journal 

New York Microscopical Society 

New York Sanitary Commission , 

New York Society Library 

New York Society of Libraries 

New York Times 

Observatory Central Park 

Public Health Association 

Sanitarian 

School of Mines 

Seientilic American , 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



91 



List of imclcagea received hi/ the Smithsonian Instituiion, ijc. — Continued. 
UNITED STATES— Confiniud. 



Eecipients. 



Pack- 
uses. 



New Tork — Continued. 

Van Nostrand's Magazine 

University 

Pouglikeepsie : 

Society of Natural Sciences 

Vassar College 

Schenectady : 
Union C oUege 

Troy : 
Eensselaer Polyteclinic Institute. 

West Point : 
United States Military Academy . . 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



Raleigh: 
State Library 



Ashtabula; 
Anthropological Society 

Cincinnati: 

Astronomical Society 

Cincinnati University 

Geological Society 

Medical College of Ohio 

Mercantile Library 

Observatory 

Public Library 

Society of Natural History 

Cleveland: 
Kirtland Society 

Columbus: 

Geological Survey 

State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 

Gambler: 
Kenyon College 

Oberlin: 
Oberliu College 

Urbana: 
Central Ohio Scientific Association 

Yellow Spring : 
Antioch College 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Allegheny : 
Allegheny Observatory 

IJethlehem : 
Lehigh University 

Easton : 

Institution of Mining Engineers 

Pardee Suicnce School 

Harrisburg : 

Second Geological Survey 

State Library 

Philadelphia: 

Academy of Fine Arts 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society 

American Journal of Conchology 

American Naturalist 

American Pharmaceutical Association 

American Philosophical Society 

Board of State Charities 

Board of Trade 

Central High School 

Franklin Institute 

Geological Society 

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania 

Historical Society 



1 

197 
24 
3 

15 
108 
1 
3 
1 

28 
1 
2 
C 



Recipients. 



Pennsylvania— Continued. 

Lilirary Company 

Library of Pennsylvania Hospital 

Medical Times 

Mercantile Library 

Observatory Girard College 

Penus.vlvauia House of Refuge 

Polytechnic Bulletin 

University of J'ennsy Ivania 

Wagner Free Institute 

Zoological Garden 

Zoological Society 

Pittsbuig: 
Mercantile Library 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Providence: 

American Naturalist 

Athenieum 

Brown University 

Rhode Island Historical Society 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston : 

College of Charleston 

Elliot Society of Natural History 

Library Society 

Library, University of Charleston 

Medical School of South Carolina 

Society Libiary 

Columbia: 

South Carolina College Library 

University 

TENNESSEE. 

Nashville: 
State Library 

TEXAS. 

Chapel Hill: 
Soul6 University 

VERMONT. 

Bnrlington: 
Universityof Vermont , 

Castleton : 
Orleans County Society of Natural Sciences 



Charlottevillo : 
University of Virginia 

Hampton: 
Library of Hampton College 

Lexington: 

School of Engineers 

Virginia Military Institute . . 

Richmond: 

Medical Coilege 

State Library 

WISCONSIN. 

Madison : 
State Agricultural Society . . 

Sta-e His'orical Society . 

Wisconsin Academy 

Wisconsin University 

Milwaukee: 
Natural History Society 



Pack. 

ages. 



10 
4 

27 
1 

18. 



92 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



List of packages received bi/ the Smithsonian Institution, cj-c. — Continued. 
EKITISH AMERICA. 



Kecipients. ^S' 


Recipients. 


Pack- 
ages. 


CANADA. 

Hamilton, Ontario: 


2 

1 

1 
1 

7 
1 

15 
1 
1 
1 

20 
1 

1 
3 

2 
1 
2 
1 
4 
3 
6 

1 


C AXAD A— C ontinued. 

Canadian Institute . 

Canadian Journal of Medical Science 

Canadian K'aturalist 


25 
4 
1 


Kingston. Outario: 


Botanical Society of Canada 




2 


Montrful, (,)iii'liec: 


Geological Survey Otiice 


1 


Canadiaji Medical llecord 




1 


Canadian Jilcdical and Surgical Journal 


Magnetic Observatory 


5 


Canadian Xatiiialist 




8 






1 


Geological Survey of Canada 




1 


GovciLiiiicnt ot Canada 




1 


li'LTiiion ilodicale de Canada 


NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Fredericton: 




Medical A ssociation of Canada 

^Natural Uistory Society 

Societe d' Agriculture du Bas-Canada 

Ottawa, Ontario : 


1 


Saint John : 
Natural History Society 






1 


Quebec, Quebec: 


NEWFOUNDLAND. 

Saint Johns : 

Geological Survey of Newfoundland 

Legislative Library 




Historical Society . .' 




Historical and Natiiial History Society 







1 


Literary and Philosophical Society 


NOVA SCOTIA. 

Halifax : 
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sciences . 




Naturaliste Canadien '. 




Toronto, Ontario : 
Canadian Kutoniologist 


13 







INDIVIDUALS. 



Names. 



Abbe.Prof.C 

Abbot, C.-C 

Abbot, S.L 

Abbott, Gen, F.L 

Abert, Col. S. T 

Adams, Cliarles F 

Agassiz, Prof. A 

Aidis, Judge A. O 

Alexander, Prof. Stephen 

Alvord, Gen.B 

Anderson, Ales. C 

Andiew.s, II. R 

Angell, -James B 

Antisell, Dr. Thomas 

Applcton & Co 

Apthorp, Robert E 

Ashbnruer, Charles A 

A she, Conimauder E. D . . 

Atkinson, W.B 

Avery, R.S 

Babcock, Gen. O. E 

Bache,L 

Bache, Professor 

Baird, Prof. S. F 

Baker, Henry B 

Ballard, Jo.shua 

Bancroft, Hon. George . . 

Barclay, James F...'. 

Barfoot, Professor 

Barker, Prof. George F . . 
Barlow, Hon. Francis . . . 

Barlow. Scott 

Barnard, Rev. Dr 

Barnaid, James M 

Barnes, General ,. 

Barnes, Hon W 

Bamston, George 



Pack- 
ages. 



Names. 



Bates, F.H 

Bausett, S. P 

Beardslee, Commander 

Beecher, C.E 

Belfrago, G. W 

Bell, Robert 

Bellows, Rev. F. W.... 

Berkmans, Mr , 

Bessels, Dr. E 

Betliune, Rev. CJ. S.. 
Eickmore, Prof. A. L .. 

Bicn, Julius 

Bigelow, Frank H 

IMilings, Dr.J. S 

Birne.y, General W 

Black'man, Charles S .-, 

Blake, Piof. W. P 

Bland, Thomas , 

Blasius, W 

l!leasdell, Rev. William 

Boutclier, C. S 

Boy den, U. N 

Bransford, Dr. J. F 

Brendel, Dr. Fred , 

llroadhead, G.C 

Brooke, Maj. T. B 

Brown, Horace 

Brush, Prof. George I ., 

Burgess, Ed 

Burnham, S. W 

Burnett, Dr. S. M 

Butler, Charles E 

Butler, James D 

Cameron. Allan 

Carll, JohnC 

C.ipron, Hon. Horace . .. 
Carman, Hou.E. A 



Pack- 
ages. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

List of2}acJcages received by the Smithsonian Institution, c^c. — Coutinixed. 
INDIVIDUALS— Contiuued. 



Ifanies. 



Pack- 
ages. 



Carr, Luc 

Caso, Leonard 

Casey, Colouel 

Chaiiil)eilaia, Dr. C. W .. 

Chambers, Prot V. T 

Chance, H. M 

ChaniUer, Prof. Charles F 

Chaudler, S.C.,jr 

Chapmaii, Dr. C 

Chickeriua;. Prof. J, W ... 

Clarlv, Ed\' 

Coffin, Prof. J. H.C , 

Comstock, Gen. C. B 

Comstock, Prof. J. H 

Conn, Dr.G. T 

Cook, Prof. George H 

Cook, Prof. J.P 

Cope, Profe.ssor 

Coppee, Prof. H 

Corson, Prof. Kiram 

Coue.s, Dr. Elliott 

Cose, E.B 

Cox, Prof.E. T 

Crosby, Joseph.... 

Crosby, W. O 

Crunden, F. M 

Cntts, Col.R.D 

Dall, W.il 

Dana, Prof.E.S 

Dana, Prof.J.D 

Dana, Kichard H 

Darracli. Dr. James 

Davis, li.C 

Davis, Lieut. Com. C. H . . 

Davis, Mr 

Davis, i;car-Admival 

Davis, William M 

Davidson, Prof. George. . . 

Dawson Bios 

Dawson, George M 

Dawson, J. W 

Dawson, Principal 

Dean, John Ward 

Dewey, Melvil 

Dike, Camden 

Dinwiddle, K 

Dobson, James 

Dobson, John 

Dodge, A. G. Phelps 

Dolley, Dr. S. R. A 

Doolittlo, M.H 

Douglas, Fred 

DowlCapt. J. M 

Dow, Hon. Neal 

Downes, John 

Draper, Dr. Daniel 

Draper, Dr. H 

Draper, L. C , 

Dufrasne, Abl)6 

Dutton, Captain 

Eastman, Prof. J. E 

Eaton, Hon. John 

Eaton, William S 

Ed wards, H , 

Egleston, Professor 

Elliot, Dav. Giraud 

Elliott, E.B 

Elliott, Samuel 

Ellis, J.B 

Ellis, Rev. George E 

Emerson, Prof. G. B 

Emmons, S.F 

Endlich, Dr. P. M 

Engelman. Dr. George 

Ericson. Captain 

Evans, John D 

Everett, Percival L 

Ewart,JoliuG 



!Names. 



F.airey, Richard 

Farlo'w, Prof. W. G 

Farquhar, E. J 

Farquharson. Dr. R. I . . . 

Ferrel, Prof. W 

Field, D.Dudley 

Fields, James F 

Fisher, Dr. G. J 

Fiss, George W 

Flas, Samuel 

Flagg, M.C 

Fletcher, Dr. E 

Flint, W 

Fliigel, Hermann 

Fontaine, Professor 

Forbes, Dr. R. W 

Fortin, Dr. Pierre 

Fowler, Rev. James 

Frazer, Persifor 

Fristoe, Prof. E. T 

Fri.sby, Prof. E 

Frothingliam, Mr 

Fuller, U. W 

Funiess, H. H 

Gale, Dr. L. D 

(Jallaudet, Dr. E. M 

Gait, Six A. J 

Gam gee. Professor 

Gannett, Heurv 

Gannett, Rev. W. C 

Gant, James A 

Gardner, Hon. W. S 

Garnett, Dr.A.G. P 

Garnett, Dr. S. G. P 

Gatschet, Albert 

Genth, Dr. F. A 

Gibbs, Philip H 

Oibbs, Prof. L. R 

Gibbs, Prof. Wolcott.... 

Gilbert, G. K 

Gill, Dr. T.^ 

GUpiu, Bermird 

Goodall. A. G 

(iloode, G. Brown 

Goodfellow, Ed 

Graves. Doctor 

Gray, Prof. Asa 

Gray, Hon. Horace 

Green, B. R 

Green, Prof. S. S 

Greene, Lieut. F. V 

Greene, Mrs. B. D 

Grew, Henry S 

Guyot, Prof(,'ssor 

Hagen, Prof. H. A 

Haines, Col. P. C 

Hale, Hon. George S 

Hall, Prof. A 

Hall, Prof. C. E 

Hall, Prof. James 

Hambach, Dr. G 

Hammond, Dr. W. A 

Hanks, I 

Hanson, P 

Harding, C. L 

Harding, Edgar 

Harding, George W 

Harkness, Professor 

Harrington, Dr. B. J 

Harris,"Clarendon 

Harvey, L. F 

Hathawav, C. L 

Hawley, H. Q 

Haydeii, D. H 

Haydeu, Prof. F. V 

Ileatherington, A. H 

Hedrick, Prof. B. S 

Hedrick, John T 



Pack- 
ages. 



1 

131 
1 



94 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



List of packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, ^-c. — Continued. 
rNDIVIDUALS— Continued. 



Names. 



Henry, James 

Henry, Mrs 

Hess, Miss Sa,llie A 

Higgins, E. S 

Hiidebrand, E 

Hilgard, Prof. J. E 

Hill, George W 

Hind, Prof. H. Y 

Hinde, George J 

Hinrichs, Prof. G 

Hitchcock, Professor 

Hofftnanu, Dr. W. J 

Holden, Prof. E. S 

Holmes, N 

Holmes, Dr. O. W 

Holmes, W. H 

Holtzer, Charles W 

Horn, Mr 

Horn, G. A 

Hough, Frank B 

How, Prof. H 

Howell, Prof E. E 

Howgate, Capt. H. W 

Huart, Abb6 Victor 

Hudson, B 

Humphreys, General A. A . 

Hunt, Charles O 

Hunt, Prof. J. Henry 

Hyatt, Prof. A 

Jackson, A. W., jr 

James, Prof. W 

Janes, Eev. Owen 

Jarvais, Dr. Ed 

Jelliflo, Samuel G 

Jenkins, Admiral 

Johnson, A. B 

Johnston, Dr. W. "W 

Jones, C. C 

Jones, J. Matthew 

Joy, Prof. Charles A 

Kendall, Prof. E. 

Kerr, Prof. W. C 

Kidder, Dr. J. n 

Kilbourne, Lieutenant 

Kimball, I. P 

King, Dr. A. r. A 

King, Prof. Clarence 

Kingslev, W. L 

Kingston, G. T 

Kirkwood, Prof. Dr. Daniel 

Knapp, Dr. James 

Knox, J. J 

Lafliunme, Prof. J. C. K 

Lafoi-me, J. A 

Lane, George M 

Lane.W.C 

Langley, Prof. S. P 

Lawrence, George N 

Lawrence, H. D 

Lawrence, Hon. "W. B 

Lea, Dr. Isaac 

Lft (!onte, Dr. John L 

Le Conte, Prof. John 

Lo Conte, Prof Joseph 

Loo, Admiial S. P 

Lee, Dr. WiUiam 

Lees, John S 

Leidy, Dr. Joseph 

Lesley, J. P 

Lesquereux, Leo 

L'Gencrantz, G. A. M 

Lincoln. Dr. N. S 

Linden, Prof. Leopold 

Livermore, Eev. Dr 

Lockwood, Prof. S 

Loomis, Prof. E 

Levering, Prof. Joseph 

Lowo.rrc « 



Pack 
ages. 



Names. 



Pack- 
ages. 



Lyman, Professor 

Ikiacfarlane, R. M 

Macoun, Prof. J ohn 

Maisch, John M 

Mallei V, Colonel 

Mallett. I'rof J. W 

Mann, Mrs. Horace 

Mannigault, G. E 

Marcou, Prof. Jules 

Marcou, Phil.B 

Marcy, Prof. Oliver 

Marsh, Prof O. C 

Martin, H.N 

Marvin, J.B 

Mason, Prof. O. T 

Matthews, G. F 

Maver, Prof A If. M 

McCagg, Ezra B 

McCliesnev, Joseph 

McCreath," A. S 

McGce,W.J 

McGuire, F. B 

Mc Laughlin, W. II 

McLennan, K 

Meigs, Dr. Aitken 

Meigs, General M. C 

Miller.S.A 

Mohr, Paul 

Morong, llev. Thomas 

Morse, Prof. Dr 

Morton, President H 

Mosely, Edward S 

Mosman, Alonzo F 

Moulding, Thomas 

l^Iurray, William 

Myer, General A. J 

Nagle, Dr. John T 

N ewherry. Dr. I. S 

Newcomb Prof S 

Newton, H 

Newton, Prof. H. A 

Nicholson, W. H 

Nicholson, "W. L 

Nipher, Prof.F.E 

Nordbofl" C 

Nonis, J. Parker 

Nourse, Prof J. E 

Oliver, Dr. O. C 

Olmstead, Eev. L. G 

( )id way , Dr. A 

( ).sborne, J. "W 

Otis,Dr.G. A 

Otto, Ilcv.E 

Outerbridgo & Co 

Packard, Prof. A. S., jr .. . 

Packard. Dr. John H 

Packer.H.E 

Paine, Prof Martin 

Parke, Gi neral J. G 

Parker, Dr. Peter 

Parkhnrst. n. M 

Parkmaii, Prof. Francis. . . 

Parrv,Dr.C C 

Patterson, Capt. C.P 

Paul.F.M 

Pearson, Jonathan 

Peck, Charles n 

Poet, R'v. Stephen 

Peirce, Prof. B 

Peters Prof C. H. P 

Peters, G.F 

Phillips, Henry 

Pickering, Prof Edward C 

Pickering, Henry 

Pierce, Prof B 

Poe, General O. M 

Poesehe, Theodore 

Poole, Herman 



APPENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

List of packages received oy the Smithsonian Institution, ijc. — Coutiuued. 
INDIVIDUALS— Continued. 



Names. 



Pourtale.s, Prof. L. M 

Po wel, Samuel 

Powell, Prof. J. W 

Prentiss, Prof. D. W 

Prime, Fred 

Priuiilo, C. G- 

Pritchett,C. W 

Prout,Dr.H.D 

Provaucher, Al)l}6 

Purapellv, Ralph 

Putnam,' F.W 

Putnam, J. Duncan 

Quiucy, Miss E 

Quincy, General S. M 

Quiucy, Hon. Josiab 

Itaii, Dr. ( Jbarles _j 

Ketltield, Professor ... 

Ri.lswav, R 

Riley, Prof. C. V 

Rising, Prof TV. B 

Ritter, W. P. McK 

Roberts. George , 

Robinson, R.W , 

Roeli, Miles 

Rodgers, Admiral Jobn . . . 

Roebuck, Dr. P. J 

Roessler, Doctor 

Roesslor, F. E 

Rogers, Prof. F 

Rogers, Prof W. A 

Rogers, Prof. W. B 

Rominger, Professor 

Rood, Prof. O. N 

Rowland, Prof F. A 

Roy, Mrs. William 

Royer, C". C 

Russell, Lindsev 

Rutberford, L. M: 

Satlbrd, Prof James 

Saftord, Prof. T. n 

Salisbury, E. E 

Salisbury, Prof. Stepbens. 

Sanborn, S. Brooks 

Sands, Admiral 

Sanford, Jobn E 

Saville, James II 

Scbott, Dr. Charles A 

Schneider, F 

Scbrader, August 

Schurz, lien. Carl 

Schuster, M 

Scuddi>r, Dr. S. H 

Scudder, R. H 

Searle, Arthur 

Searle, Rev. G. M 

Selwyn, A. R. C 

Seijeant, Professor 

Setchel.T.H 

Shaler.Piof N. S 

Shepherd, Pi of n. E 

Sherman, General W. T . . . 

Sherman, Hon. Jobn 

Sherwood, Andrew 

Sigsbee, L. D 

Sigsbee,L.P 

Silliraan, Prof. B 

Simon, Dr. Wil 

Slater, H.N.,. ir 

Smith, Dr. George 

Smith, E. A 

Smith, Mrs. Ales 

Smith Prof E 

Smith, W.H 

Smith, J. Q 

Smith, Prof H. L 

Smith, Prof. J. L 

Smock. J. C 

Snow, Dr. E , 



Pa ek- 
es. 



Spencer, Prof J. W. 
Spofford, A. R 
Steams, R. E. C. 
Steeves, F. il , 
Stevens, Mr 
Stevenson, W. C 
Stewart, Dr. James O . 
Stockwell, John N . 
Storer, Professor 
Strecker, II 
Swallow, I'rof. G. C 
Sweet, E. G . 
Switt, L 

Sylvester, Prof. J 

T'aft,R.O 

Tanner, Lieut. Z. L 

Taylor, W. B 

Thome, Dr.S.U 

Thom.son, J. II 

Tbur.st(m, R. n 

Tiltou, Capt. McLane 

Todd,D.P 

Tolles, Robert B 

Toner, Dr. J. M 

Toomer, James 11 

Torroy, Prof H. W 

Trouvelot, L 

Troyer,C 

Tuekermaun, Prof Edw ... 

I'urner, T. J 

Twining, Major 

Twining, Professor 

I^ptou, Hon. J. K 

Vu.sev, Dr. Geoigc 

Venable, Prof Charles S . . . 

Venuinir, W.H 

Vcrrill,'Prof Dr 

Von Name, Addison 

"Wachsmutb CharU's 

Walker, General F. A 

Ward, George Cabot 

Ward.Prof H. A 

Ward, Lester F 

Ward, R. II 

Warder, Dr A 

Warren, General G. K 

Waterstown, Uev. R. (' 

Watson, Prof James C 

Watt, David A. P 

AVebster, Prof H. E 

Weeden,W.B 

Welling, Dr. J. C 

Werner, Prof H 

AVeston,n.C 

Wheatley, Prof CM 

Wheeler, Capt. G. ISt 

Whipple, George M - 

Whitchcr, Hon. W.F 

White.Dr. C. A , 

White, Dr. Charles H 

White, Prof R. Grant . . . 

Whiteares, J. F 

Wbitmore, W.H 

Whituey.n. A 

Whitney, Prof. J. D 

Wliituev, Prof. W. D 

AVbittier, John G 

Wiiiglesworth, Dr. E 

Wiirglesworth, Mrs. E 

Wilder, Prof B. G 

Willey, Henry 

Williams, David 

Williamson, Col. R. S 

Wilmot, Samuel 

Wil.son, C(d. Jobn M 

WiLson, Hon. J. O 

Willsou, Robert W 

Wincbell. Prof Alex 



Pack- 



96 



A^fENDIX TO THE EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY 



List of ])aGkafj€s received hy the Smithso7iian Institution, c^-c. — Coutiuiied. 
INDIVIDUALS— Continued. 



Namea. 



WmclieU,Prof.]Sr.H. 

"Wiiislow, Erviug 

Winy or, Justin 

WoIcott.C. D 

Wood, Prof. H. .... 
Wood, William & Co 
Woodbury, Hon. C. L 
Woodward, Dr. J. J. . 
Woodwortli, Dr. J. M 



Pack- 
ages. 



Names. 



Worthen, Prof. A. H 

Wri£ht,Prof.A 

Wright, Prof. A. W 

Wvman, Prof. M 

Young, Prof. C. A 

Touug, Clarence B 

Yarrow, Doctor 

Youmans, Dr. E. L 

Zaremba, Dr. C. W 



Pack- 
ages. 



EECAPITULATION". 



Alabama 

Arl^ausas 

California 

Colorado , 

Connecticut 

District of Columbia 

Georgia , 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa , 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Missouri 



Institutions. 


o5 




© 












o 


>— - 


-3 


^ 


■< 


(k 


1 


2 


2 


3 


9 


106 


1 


1 


14 


.314 


45 


910 


3 


3 


15 


104 


4 


11 


8 


79 


3 


11 


4 


6 


5 


57 


6 


23 


8 


64 


44 


789 


9 


34 


4 


6 


12 


158 



New Ilampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina.. 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania ... 
Ilhodo. Islanil ... 
South Carolina . 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Vermont 

Virginia 

Wisconsin 

British America 

Total 

Individuals 

Total 



Institutions. 



385 
5G0 



11 

23 

485 

1 

91 

459 

9 

20 

1 

2 

16 

14 

60 

148 



4,021 
1,566 



945 5, 587 



III. — Government Exchanges. 





Parcels. 


Parcels. 


RECEIVED. 


6,000 
9,200 




184 sets for hox O 








DISTUIBUTED. 

a. To foreign governments : 


6,545 

608 




b. To Library of Cono;ress : 

2 copies each or 304 sets of documents delivered by the Public Printer 











APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



97 



Box " N " of goverament exchanges was sent to tlio following-named govemmenta : 



Argentino Confederation. 

Bavaria. 

Belgium. 

Brazil. 

Buenos Ayres. 

Canada. 

Chile. 

Denmark. 

Trance (one for government, one for distribution 

among the departments). 
Germany. 
Great Britain. 
Greece. 
Hayti. 
Japan. 
Mexico. 
Netherlands. 



New South "Wales. 

New Zealand. 

Norway. 

Ontario (Canada). 

Portugal. 

Prussia. 

Queensland. 

Saxony. 

Spain. 

Sweden. 

Switzerland. 

South Australia. 

Tasmania. 

Turkey. 

Venezuela. 

Victoria. 

AViutemberg. 



England also received box M, withheld from last year's sending. 

Tor the Government of Italy 13 boxes (A to N) are ready and awaiting orders for shipment. 

ESTABLISHMENTS DESIGNATED FOR THE RECEPTION OF GOA'ERNMENT EXCHANGES. 



Countries. 



Argentino Coufederation 

Belgiiun 

Brazil 

Buenos Ayi'es 

Canada .' 

Ontario 

Chile 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Bavaria 

Prussia 

Saxony , 

■Wiirtemberg 

Great Britain 

Greece. 

Hayti 

Japan 

Mexico 

Netherlands 

New South "Wales 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

South Australia 

Tasmania 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

Victoria 



Establishments. 



Government, Buenos Ayres. 

Commission Beige d'Echanges Internationaux, Brussels. 

Goveiument, llio Janeh'o. 

Government, Buenos Ayres. 

Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 

Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Government, Santiago. 

Royal Liljrary, Copenhagen. 

Coimuission Fi'an9aiso des Itchanges Internationaux, Paris*. 

lieichstags Bibliothek, Berlin. 

Koyal Library, Miinchen. 

Eoyal Library, Berlin. 

Eoyal Library, Dresden. 

Royal Library, Stuttgart. 

British Museum, Loudon. 

Government, Athens. 

Secretaire d'£tat des Relations Ext^rienres, Port-aa-Prince.. 

Ministere des Affaires £trang6res, Tokio. 

Government, Mexico. 

Royal Library. The Hague. 

Royal Society of New South "Wales, Sydney. 

Parliamentary Library, V\ illiugton. 

K. Norske Fredericks IJniversitet, Christiania. 

Government, Lisbon. 

Government, Brisl)ane. 

Government, Madrid. 

Government, Stocklidlm. 

Buudes Kanzlei, Bern. 

Government, Adelaide. 

I'arlianieutary Library, Hobarton. 

Government, Constantinople. 

Government, Caracas. 

Public Library, Melbourne. 



RECAPITULATION. 



RECEIVED. 

1 . For home distribution 

2' For distribution abroad 

3' For government exchange 

DISTRIBUTED. , 

1. Smithsonian exchanges : 

To establishments abroad, 23.3 boxes 

To homo institutions and individuals 

2. Government exchanges : 

To governments abroad, 35 boxes (N), containing 187 documents each 
To Library of Congress, 2 copies each of 304 sets of documents 



Parcels. 



6,670 
14, 175 
15, 200 



10, 384 

5,587 

6,545 
608 



Parcels. 



36,045 



23, 124 



S. Mis. 31- 



98 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



LIST or PERIODICALS RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN 

INSTITUTION. 

The following is a list of the Periodicals received by the Smithsonian 
Institution (exclusive of the Transactions of learned Societies), a large 
portion of them being presented by the publishers in exchange for the 
Annual Reports or other publications : 

Aborigines' Friend. London, England. Ir. 

Academy. London, England. AVeekly. 

Aeronaute. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Allgemeine Bibliographic. Leipsic, Saxony. Monthly. 

American Architect and Building News. Boston, Mass. Weekly. 

American Bookseller. New York, N. Y. Weekly. 

American Chemical Journal. Baltimore, Md. Monthly. 

American Gas Light Journal. New York, N. Y. Semi-monthly. 

American Journal of Insanity. Utica, N. Y. Quarterly. 

American Journal of Mathematics, Pure and Applied. Baltimore, Md. 
Quarterly. 

American Journal of Otology. New York. Quarterly. 

American Journal of Pharmacy. Philadelphia, Pa. Monthly. 

American Journal of Science. New Haven, Conn. Monthly. 

American Manufacturer and Iron World. Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, 
Pa. Weekly. 

American Monthly Microscopical Journal. New York, N. Y. Monthly. 

American Naturalist. Philadelphia, Pa. Monthly. 

Anales de la Asociacion Larrey. Mexico. Ir. 

Anales de la Real Academia de Ciencias Medicas, Fisicas y Naturales 
de la Habana. Havana, Cuba. Monthly. 

Anales del Museo Nacional de Mexico. Mexico. Ir. 

Analyst. Des Moines, Iowa. Monthly. 

Annales et Bulletin de la Societe de Medecine de Gaud. Ghent, Bel- 
gium. Monthly. 

Annales des Mines. Paris, France. Bi-monthly. 

Annales des Pouts et Chaussees. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Annales de la Societe d'Horticulture de I'Allier. Moulins, France. Ir. 

Anuals and Magazine of Natural History. London, England. Monthly. 

Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. New York, N. Y. Ir. 

Annuaire de la Societ6 Meteorologique de France. Paris, France. Ir. 

Antiquary. London. Monthly. 

Arbeiterfreund (Der). Berlin, Prussia. Bi-monthly. 

ArchiEological Journal. London, England. Quarterly. 

Archiv der Mathematik und Physik. Leipsic, Saxony. Bi-monthly. 

Archiv der Pharmacie. Halle a. d. Saale, Prussia. Monthly. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPOFtT OF THE SECEETARY. 09 

Arcliiv (les Ilistorisclieu Vereiiis von Uuterfranken uud Ascliaffenbiirg. 
Wiirzburg. Bavaria. Ir. 

Archiv fiir Anatomie and Pbysiologie. Leipsic, Saxony. Bi-montlily. 

Archiv fiir Naturgescliiclite. Berlin, Prussia. Ir. 

Arcliiv fiir Pathologische Anatomie, und fiir Kliuisclie Medicin. Ber- 
lin, Prussia. Montlily. 

Archives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles. The Hague, 
Holland. Ir. 

Archivio per 1' Antropologia e la Etnologia. Florence, Italy. Quartei'lj. 

Art Dentaire. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Athenseum. London, England. Weekly. 

Athenaeum Beige. Brussels, Belgium. 

Atlanta Eepublican. Atlanta, Georgia. Weekly. 

Atti dell' Accademia Pontifica. Borne, Italy. Ir. 

Atti della Societfi di Acclimazione e di Agricoltura in Sicilia. Palermo, 
Italy. Monthly. 

Auxiliador da Industria Nacional. Eio de Janeiro, Brazil. IMonthly. 

Bayerisches Industrie- und Gewerbe-Blatt. Munich, Bavaria. Bi- 
monthly. 

Beitriige zur Statistik Mecklenburgs. Mecklenburg- Schwerin, Ger- 
many. Ir. 

Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Berlin, Prussia. Ir. 

Boletin de la Sociedad de Geografia de Madrid. Madrid, Spain. Ir. 

Boletin de la Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica. Mexico. Ir. 

Bolletino. B. Comitato Geologico d' Italia. Eome, Italy. Monthly. 

Bolletino della Societa Adriatica di Scienze JJ^J^aturali. Trieste, Aus- 
tria. Ir. 

Bolletino della Societa Geogratica Italiana. Kome, Italy. Monthly, 

British Journal of Photography. London, England. Weekly. 

Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg, St. 
Petersburg, Russia. Ir. 

Bulletin de I'Academie de Medecine. Paris, France. Weekly. 

Bulletin of the American Geographical Society. New York. Ir. 

Bulletin of the Brooklyn Entomological Society. Brooklyn, K Y, 
Monthly. 

Bulletin du Canal Interoceanique. Paris, France. Bi-weekly. 

Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Salem, Mass. Quarterly. 

Bulletin' Hebdomadaire de I'Association Scientifique de Frauce. Paris, 
France. Weekly. 

Bulletin Mdteorologique du Nord. Copenhagen, Denmark. JMontlily. 

Bulletin of the ISTuttall Ornithological Club. Cambridge, Mass. Quar- 
terly. 

Bulletin de la Soci6t<5 d'Acclimatation. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Bulletin de la Societe d'Apiculture de la Gironde. Bordeaux, France. 
Monthly. 



100 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Bulletin de la, Societe d'Agriculture, ludiistrie, Science et Arts du De- 

partement de la Lozere. Mende, France. Monthly. 
Bulletin de la Societe d'Agriculture, Science et Arts. Poligny, France. 

Monthly. 
Bulletin de la Societe d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Sarthe. Le 

Mans, France. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie de Paris. Paris, France. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Societe Archeologique de Beziers. Beziers, France. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Societe Archeologique de FOrleanais. Orleans, France. 

Ir. 
Bulletin de la Society Centrale d'Agriculture et des Cornices Agricoles. 

Montpellier, France. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France. Paris, France. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Society de Geographic. Paris, France. Monthly. 
Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalist es de Moscoii. Moscow, 

Eussia. Quarterly. 
Bulletin de la Societe Industrielle de Mulhouse. Miihlhausen, Alsace. 

Monthly. 
Bulletin de la Soci<?te Mineralogique de France. Paris. 
Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique de Paris. Paris, France. Bi- 
monthly. 
Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences IsTaturelles de N^euchatel. Keuf- 

chatel, Switzerland. Ir. 
Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Lausanne, 

Switzerland. Ir. 
Bulletinodella Societa Entomologica Italiana. Florence, Italy. Monthly. 
Bulletino della E. Societa Toscana di. Orticoltura. Florence, Italy. 

Monthly. 
Byron. Athens, Greece. Monthly. 

Canadian Antiquarian and Numismatic Chronicle. Montreal, Canada. 
Quarterly. 

Canadian Entomologist. Toronto, Canada. Monthly. 

Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. Toronto, Can- 
ada. Quarterly. 

Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. Montreal, Canada. Bi-monthly. 

'Chemical News. London, England. Weekly. 

Chemist and Druggist. London, England. Monthly. 

Chicago Field. Chicago, 111. Weekly. 

Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic. Ohio. Weekly. 

Cincinnati Medical Advance. Cincinnati, Ohio. Monthly. 

Comet. Jackson, Miss. Weekly. 

Congressional Eecord. Washington, D. C. Daily. 

Contemporary Eeview. (Am. reprint.) New York, N. Y. Monthly. 

Cosmos. Turin, Italy. Monthly. 

Cultivator and Countrj^ Gentleman. Albany, N. Y. Weekly. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101 

Deiitsclie ludustrie-Zeitung. Chemnitz, Saxouy. Weekly. 

Deutsche Ruudschaii fiir Geographie uud Statistik. Vieuua, Austria. 

Monthly. 
Deutsche Vierteljahrschiut fiir Zahuheilkunde. Leipsic, Saxoi^y. 

Quarterly. 

Eclectic Medical Journal. Cincinnati, Ohio. Monthly. 
Emulation Jurassienne. Porentruy, Switzerland. Monthly. 
Endowment Journal. Washington, D. C. Monthly. 
Engineering and Mining Journal. 'New York. Weekly. 
English Mechanic. London, England. Weekly. 
Entomologisk Tidskrift. Stockholm, Sweden. Quarterly. 
Erdelyi Muzeum. Klausenburg. Hungary. Montlily. 
Essex Institute Historical Collection. Salem, Mass. Quarterly. 
Evening Critic. Washington, D. C. Daily. 
Evening Star. Washington, D. C. Daily. 

Field. London. 

Fishing Gazette. Loudon. Weekly. 

Foreign Missionary. New York, N. Y. Monthly. 

Forest and Stream. New York, N. Y. Weekly. 

Gaceta Cientifica de Venezuela. Caracas, Venezuela. Ir. 

Gaceta Medica. Mexico. Monthly. 

Gartenfreund. Vienna, Austria. Monthly. 

Giornale delta E. Accademia di Medicina di Torino. Turin, Italy. Ir. 

Giornale Agrario Italiano. Forli, Italy. Bi-weekly. 

Giornale ed A tti della Societa di Acclimazione e di Agricolturain Siciiia. 

Palermo, Sicily. 
Graphic. New York. Daily. 
Guide du Naturaliste. Paris, France. Bi-weekly. 

Harper's New Monthly Magazine. New York, N. Y. ]\Iouthly. 

Harper's Weekly. New York. Weekly. 

Herald of Peace. London, England. 

Historical Collections of the Essex Institute. Salem, Mass. Quarterly. 

Ibis, a Magazine of General Ornithology. London, England. Quar- 
terly. 

Internationale Freundschafts- & Handels-Beziehungen mit Sildamerika, 
Nordamerika, Australasien, Indieu, China, Japan, etc. Vienna, Aus- 
tria. Weekly. 

Inter-Ocean. Chicago, 111. Daily. 

Investigateur. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Irrenfreund. Heilbronn, Wiirtemberg. Monthly. 

Italia Agricola. Milan, Italy. Bi- Weekly. 

Jahrbiicher fiir die Deutsche Armee und Marine. Berlin, Prussia. 
Monthly. 



102 APPENDIX TO THE KEPOET OF THE SECKETART, 

Jabrbuch der K. K. Geologischen Eeichsanstalt. Vienna, Austria. 
Quarterly. 

Jenaiscbe Zeitsclirift fiir Mediciu und Naturwissenschaft. Jena, Saxe- 
Weimar. Ir. 

Journal of Academy of Natural Sciences of PhiladeliJhia. Philadel- 
phia, Pa. Quarterly. 

Journal of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. Calcutta, 
India. Ir. 

Journal of the Eoyal Agricultural Society of England. London, Eng- 
land. Half-yearly. 

Journal of the Anthroi)ological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 
London, England. Quarterly. 

Journal of Applied Sciences. London, England. Monthly. 

Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. Calcutta, India. Quarterly. 

Journal of the Eoyal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Lon- 
don, England. Quarterly. 

Journal [formerly Archives] of Comparative Medicine and Surgery. 
!N'ew York, jST. Y. Quarterly. 

Journal of Couchology. Leeds, England. Quarterly. 

Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. Dublin, Ireland. Ir. 

Journal of Education. Quebec, Canada. Monthly. 

Journal of Education. Toronto, Canada. Monthly. 

Journal of the Franklin Institute. Philadelphia, Pa. Monthly. 

Journal G6n6ral de I'Instruction Publique. Paris, France. Weekly. 

Journal of the Eoyal Geological Society of Ireland. Dublin, Ireland. Ir. 

Journal of the Eoyal Historical and Archaeological Association of Ire- 
land. Kilkenny, Ireland. Quarterly. 

Journal d'Hygieue. Paris, France. Weekly. 

Journal of the Institute of Actuaries. London, England. Quarterly. 

Journal de I'Instruction Publique. Montreal, Canada. Monthly. 

Journal fiir Landwirthschaft. Celle, Germany. Quarterly. 

Journal Mensuel des Travaux de I'Academie Rationale, Agricole, etc. 
Paris, France. Monthly. 

Journal of the Eoyal Microscopical Society. London, England. Bi- 
monthly. 

Journal of Kervous and Mental Diseases. . Chicago, 111. Quarterly, 

Journal and Transactions of the Photographic Society of Great Britain. 
London, England. Monthly. 

Journal of the Proceedings of the Linnean Society of London. London, 
England. Ir. 

Journal des Savants. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Journal of Science. Chicago, 111. Monthly. 

Journal of the Scottish jMeteorological Society. Edinburgh, Scotland. 
Ir. 

Journal of the Statistical Society. London, England. Quarterly. 

Journal de la Societe Centrale d'Horticulture. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Journal of the Society of Arts. London, England. Weekly. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 103 

Kansas City Eevie w of Science and Industry. Kansas City, Mo. Monthly. 
Kuust im. Gewerbe. Hanover, Prussia. Bi-monthly. 

Land and Water. London, England. Weekly. 
Landwirthschaftliche Jahrbiichcr. Berlii', Prussia. Bi-monthly. 
Land- u. Forstwirthschaft. Zeitung der Provinz Preussen. Konigs- 

berg, Prussia. Weekly. 
Life-Boat. London, England. Quarterly. 
Live-Stock Journal. Loudon, England. 
London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, etc. London, 

England. Monthly. 
London Illustrated News. London, Euglaud. Weekly. ^ 

La Lumiere filectrique. Paris, France. Monthly. 

Madras Journal of Literature and Science. Madras, India. Ir. 

Magazin fiir die Literatur des Auslaudes. Berlin. Weekly". 

Manual of Couchology. Philadelphia. Quarterly. 

Maryland Farmer. Baltimore, Md. Monthly. 

Materiaux pour mistoiie primitive et natureUe de I'llomme. Toulouse, 

France. Monthly. 
Medical Advance. Cincinnati, Ohio. Monthly. 
Medical and Surgical Reporter. Philadelphia, Pa. Weekly. 
Medical Times. London. Weekly. 
Memorabilien. Heilbronn, Wiirtemberg. Monthly. 
Memorie della Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiaui. Palermo, Italy. 

Monthly. 
M6moires d'Entomologie. The Hague, Netherlauds. 
Messager Agricole. Montpellier, France. Monthly. 
Messager Franco- Americain. ISTew York, ]^. Y. Daily. 
Messenger of Peace. New Vienna, Ohio. Monthly. 
Meteorologische Beobachtungen. Zurich, Switzerland. Ir. 
Meteorological Observations made at the Government Observatory. 

Sydney, New South Wales. Monthly. 
Midland Naturalist. Birmingham, England. Monthly. 
Miueralogical Magazine. Truro, England. Quarterly. 
Mining Eecord. New York. Weekly. 
INIittheiluugen der Authropologischen Gesellschaft. Vienna, Austria. 

Ir. 
Mittheilungen aus dem Gebiete des Seewesens. Pola, Austria. Ir. 
Mittheilungen der K. K. Geograi3hischen Gesellschaft. Vienna, Aus- 
tria. Monthly. 
Mittheilungen aus Justus Perthes Geographischer Anstalt. Gotha, 

Saxe-Koburg-Gotha. Monthly. 
Mittheilungen des K. K. Oesterr. Museum fiir Kunst u. Industrie. 

Vienna, Austria. Ir. 
Mittheilungen der Schweizerischen Eutomologischen Gesellschaft. 

Schaft'hausen, Switzerland. Monthly. 



_____ . . 1^ 



104 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Mittheilungen des Yereins fiir Hamburgisclie Gescliichte. namburg, 

Germany. Ir. 
Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akad. der Wissenscbaften zu Berbn. 

Berbn, Prussia. Moutbly 
Moutbly Index. New York. Weekly. 
Monthly Eecord of the Five 1 'oints House of Industry. New York, N. Y. 

Monthly. 
Morphologisches Jabrbuch. Leipsic, Saxouy. Quarterly. 

Nation. New York. Weekly. 

National Eepublican. Washington, D. C. Daily. 

Naturaliste Canadieu. Cap Eouge, Quebec, Canada. Moutbly. 

Nature. London, England. Weekly. 

Naturaleza. Mexico. Ir. 

Naturforscber. Berlin, Prussia. Weekly. 

Naturhistorisk Tidskrift. Copenhagen, Denmark. Ir. 

Neue Deutsche Gewerbe-Zeitung. Leipsic, Saxouy. Bi-monthly. 

New England Historical and Genealogical Kegister. Bostou, Mass. 
Quarterly. 

New York Medical Eclectic. New York, N. Y. Monthly. 

New York Tribune. New York, N. Y. Daily. 

Nineteenth Century. (American reprint.) New York, N. Y. Monthly. 

Nordisk Tidskrift for Filologie. Copenhagen, Denmark. 

North American Eeview. New York. Monthly. 

Northwestern Trade Bulletin. Milwaukee, Wis. Weekly. 

Notizblatt des Deutschen Vereins fiir Fabrication von Ziegel, Thon- 
waaren, Kalk und Cement. Berlin, Prussia. Quarterly. 

Nouvelles Meteorologiques. Paris, France. Ir. 

Numismatic Chronicle and Journal of the Numismatic Society. London, 
England. Quarterly. 

Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano. Pisa, Italy. Quarterly. 

Nyt Magazin fiir Naturvideuskabernes. Christiania, Norway. Quar- 
terly. 

Observatory. London, England. Monthly. 

Oesterr-Ungar. Fischerei-Zeitung. Vienna, Austria. Weekly. 

Oesterreichisch-\Jngarische Sparkassen-Zeitung. Vienna, Austria. 

Weekly. 
Our Dumb Animals. Boston, Mass. Monthly. 

Penn Monthly Magazine. Philadelphia, Pa. Monthly. 
PharmaceuticalJournal and Transactions. London, Eughmd. Monthly. 
Pharmacist. Chicago, 111. Monthly. 

Philadelphia University Journal of Medicine and Surgery. Philadel- 
phia, Pa. ]\Ionthly. 
Photographische Correspondenz. Vienna, Austria. Monthly. 
Popular Science Monthly. New York. Monthly. 
Popular Science Eeview. London. Quarterly. 






APPENDIX TO THE REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 105 

Prairie Farmer. Chicago, 111. Weekly. 

Psyche. Cambridge, Mass. Monthly. 

Public Ledger. Philadelphia, Pa. Daily. 

Pubblicazioni del Cn-colo Geografico Italiauo. Turin, Italy. Bi-monthly. 

Publishers' and Stationers' Weekly Trade Circular. New York, N. Y. 

Weekly. 
Publishers' Weekly. New York. Weekly. 
Puck. New York, N. Y. Weekly. 

Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society. London, England. Monthly. 
Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London. London, Eug. 
Quarterly Journal of the Meteorological Society. London, England. 
Quarterly Weather Eeport of Meteorological Office. London, England. 

Eeading Times and Dispatch. Eeading, Pa. Daily. 

Eepublic. Washington. Weekly. 

Eevue Agricole, ludustrielle, Litteraire et Ai^tistique. Valenciennes, 

France. Monthly. 
Eevue G6ographique Internationale. Paris, France. Monthly. 
Eevue Maritime et Colouiale. Paris, France. Monthly. 
Eevue Medicale de Toulouse. Toulouse, France. Monthly. 
Eevue Politique et Litteraire. Paris, France. Weekly. 
Eevue Savoisienne. Annecy, France. Monthly. 
Eevue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger. Paris, France. 

Weekly. 
Eevista de la Arquitectura. Madrid, Spain. Monthly. 
Eevista Cientifica Mexicana. Mexico. Monthly. 
Eevista General de Comunicaciones. Havana, Cuba. Monthly. 
Eoyal Astronomical Society. London, England. Monthly notices. 

Sanitarian. New York. Monthly. 

Schulzeitung fiir die Herzogthiimer Schleswig-Holstein und Lauenburg. 

Kiel, Prussia. Weekly. 
Science Gossip. Loudon. Monthly. 
Science Observer. Boston, Mass. Monthly. 
Scientific American. New York, N. Y. Weekly. 
Scientific American Supplement. New York. Weekly. 
Scottish Naturalist. Edinburgh, Scotland. Quarterly. 
Sitzungsberichte der Naturw. Gesellschaft Isis. Dresden, Saxony. 

Monthly. 
Societe Centrale des Architectes. Paris, France. Monthly. 
Societe Linneenne du Nord de la France. Amiens, France. Monthly. 
Symons's Monthly Meteorological Magazine. Loudon, England. 

Monthly. 

Technische Blatter. Prague, Austria. Quarterly. 

Telegraph Journal. London. Weekly. 

Tijdschrift voor Entomologie. Leiden, Holland. Ir. 



106 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Tidsskrift for Populoere Fremstillmger af ISTaturvidenskabern. Copen- 
hagen, Denmark. Ir. 
Tidsskrift for Veterinairer. Copenhagen, Denmark. Quarterly. 

Uugarisclie Revne. Vienna, Austria. Ir. 
Urania. Dublin, Ireland. Monthly. 

Vereiuigte Frauendorfer Blatter. Passau, Bavaria. "Weekly. 
Yierteljahrschrift der Astronomischen Gesellschaft. Leipsic, Saxony. 

Quarterly. 
Vierteljahrschrift der Xaturforschenden Gesellschaft in Ziirich. Zurich, 

Switzerland. Quarterly. 
Volks vligt, Tij dschrift voor Kij verheid, Landbo w, Handel en Scheep vaart. 
■ Amsterdam, Holland. Monthly. 

Washington Post. Washington, D. C. Daily. 

Washington Sentinel. Washington, D. C. Weekly. 

Wiener Illustrirte Garteu-Zeituug. Vienna, Austria. Monthly. 

Wochensclirift des Oesterreichischen Ingenieur- und Architecten-Verei- 

nes. Vienna, Austria. Weekly. 
Wochenschrift des Vereines Deutscher Ingenieure. Berlin, Prussia. 

Weekly. 

Zeitschrift des Architecten- und Ingenieur- Vereins fiir das Konigreich 
Hannover. Hanover, Prussia. Quarterly. 

Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. Berlin, Prussia. 
Quarterl3\ 

Zeits<?hrift der Deutschen Morgenliindischen Gesellschaft. Leipsic, 
Saxony. Quarterly. 

Zeitschrift des Oesterreichischen Ingenieur- und Architekten Vereins. 
Vienna, Austria. ]\Tonthly. 

Zeitschrift des Vereines Deutscher Ingenieure. Berlin, Prussia. Monthly. 

Zhurnal Eusskago Khimitsheskago Obschestva. St. Petersburg, Eus- 
sia. Ir. 

Zoologische Garten. Organ der Zoologischen Gesellschaft. Frank- 
fort on the Main, Prussia. Monthly. 

Zoologist. London, England. Monthly. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107 



EULES FOE THE EXAMINATION OF SPECIMENS SUBMITTED 
TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

1. Qualitative esaminatious — that is, for determiuing the coustituente 
of the specimens — are made without charge. 

2. Quantitative examiuatious, or the determination of the, percentage of 
the different components of the specimens, can only be made at the 
expense of the applicant; the charge to be in proportion to the time 
expended in the work, e. (/., from $5 to $50, according to whether it is 
partial (determination of silver, lead, or iron, &c., only) or full (deter- 
mination of everything). 

3. The report of quantitative examinations will be given under the 
name of the expert to whom the specimens shall be submitted, and not 
under that of the Smithsonian Institution. 

4. All apiilications for the determination of specimens must be made 
by letter, addressed " Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution." 

5. The specimens examined, or a part of them, will be retained by the 
Institution. 

6. All specimens to be delivered to the Institution free of expense. 

Spencer, F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 



EEPOET OF FEED. W. TAYLOE, 

Chemist of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The present chemist entered upon his duties the latter part of Janu- 
ary, 1880, taking charge of the laboratory and mineralogical department 
during the absence of Dr. Endlich, and has continued to perform the 
duties of his office since that time. The laboratory was found to be in 
comparatively good order, though the stock of apparatus and chemicals 
was extremely limited. By slow additions the stock of both has been 
largely increased, until now the laboratory may be said to be compara- 
tively well supplied for all branches of inorganic work. As yet no pro- 
vision has been made for organic work, and no such work has been 
attempted, as, in addition to the lack of apparatus, the arrangement 
and fitting of the laboratory render such work almost impossible. As 
stated in the last annual report, the Avork of the laboratory consists 
in the determination of various minerals sent in to the Institution 
for identification, and in the investigation of such questions as may be 
referred to it by the departments. No other work is attempted by the 
Institution, though the chemist is kindly permitted to undertake other 
work on his own account. Since February 1, 1880, the chemist has made 



108 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

about one liuudred and twenty qualitative reports to the Institution on 
si^eciinens received, identifying nearly three times that number of spe- 
cimens ; also some fifteen quantitative reports. lie regrets, however, 
that nearly ninety per cent, of the specimens received by the Institu- 
tion are entirely worthless, owing to the small size of specimens, and to 
the partiality of senders to the suli)hide of iron (Pyrite) and to the sul- 
phide of iron and coi^per (Chaleoi>yrite). This unfortunate fact has 
prevented the chemist f^om making any considerable addition to the 
collection, or to the supply of duplicates. The cases in the mineral hall 
have, however, been refitted and put in order without change in the 
system followed by Dr. Endlich, and the few valuable specimens that 
have been received, where space would not permit their exhibition, have 
been temporarily stored in the drawers under the cases. Among the 
specimens of value received may be mentioned specimens of amalgam, 
crude bullion, and fine silver from Montana, received from Mr. Thos. Don- 
aldson; a small but handsome collection of minerals from Mr. Geo. F. 
Kunz, of New York ; some fine specimens of native copper, contributed 
by Dr. lieyuolds; and a large number of specimens of the gold and silver 
ores of the West, from the surveyors-general of the Western States. Here 
let me enter a resi^ectful protest against the method of collecting these 
specimens. I should not say method, however, as my x)rotest is against 
the apparent want of any method or system whatever. As received the 
specimens are of every size and shape, from a mere chip to a piece of 
three inches cube, some labeled or numbered, some not. 1 would sug- 
gest that each contributor of such specimens be requested to send i)ieces 
of something like the same size, say 4" x 0" x 2,"; that each specimen 
be sent in dui^licate, and that in all cases an invoice of specimens be 
sent both with the letter of transmittal and also inclosed with the spe- 
cimens. W^e would then have a fair collection of these ores instead of 
the present supply of chips, many of them broken from the weathered 
outcrop of the ledge or vein which they are intended to represent. 
Another collection received has been one of the gold, silver, and copi)er 
ores of Alaska, from Com. L. A. Beardslee ; a collection of iron, lead, 
and copper ores of South Africa, from Mr. Geo. D. Sidman. Mr. F. A. 
Lowe has contributed a fine specimen of Ammikite and one of Huntilite, 
the two new silver islet minerals, the first containing eighty per cent, of 
silver, also a small specimen of Macfarlanite. Though the chemist has 
not as yet completed any sets of dujilicates for distribution, be has sent 
off several sets that were i)acked by Dr. Endlich, and has under way 
some fifteen or twenty more sets for that purpose. 

These sets will contain not only minerals, but also a certain number 
of lithological and geological specimens, the aim being to furnish a set 
of characteristic minerals and ores for class teaching. Among the ques- 
tions referred to the Institution by the departments was that of the 
utility of the Tichnor process for the extraction of gold from its ores, 
referred by the Patent Office. This investigation was a most tedious 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 100 

aud laborious one, involving many weigbings of a deliquescent sub- 
stance, which had to be done with the greatest rapidity, and at the 
same time with accuracy; also the making of some fifty careful assays, 
giving the chemist nearly a month of hard and dirty work. Another 
question referred to the chemist through Mr. Ehees, of the Institution, 
was the character of the coloring matter used on the small squares of 
paper given to the children in the Kindergarten schools of the Distri(;t 
and elsewhere. This paper is a thin paper, colored and glazed on one 
side (in most cases), cut into five-inch squares, and is given to the chil- 
dren to cut up and fashion into various patterns. 

The chemist regrets that he has not been able to find time to make 
more than a brief qualitative examination of the subject. Eighteen 
samples of paper were tested for arsenic, and out of that number six 
samples were found to contain a large aDiount of arsenic in different 
forms, probably the most dangerous being a bright green paper, the 
coloring matter being the brilliant but deadly Scheele's green. The 
other colors found to contain arsenic were inirple, solferino, navy blue, 
carmine red, and vermillion red. Another investigation undertaken by 
the chemist for prominent private parties was a thorough testing of the 
so-called Robertson electric process for the reduction of gold ores. This 
process, like the Tichnor, is utterly at variance with accepted ideas of 
chemists and metallurgists, and the investigation showed similar results 
to the Tichnor in proving it'-of little value. In addition to these inves- 
tigations the chemist has undertaken numerous analyses and assays for 
private parties of no particular chemical interest. The time of the chem- 
ist has of late been entirely occupied in overhauling and recording the 
vast amount of reserve material stored in the Institution, the object 
being to make a complete record of duplicates and reserves aud to elimi- 
nate all worthless material and make room for new contributions. 



110 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION'S OF THE NATIONAL 

MUSEUM IN 1880.* 

Abbey and Imbrie. A large collection of fishing-tackle (purchased). 
B. E. 

Acton, H. B. {through Miss Foster). A fossil shell ; from Mexico. 

Adams, W. H. A small box of fossils ; from Illinois. 

AdMns, G. B. A living land- tortoise [Cistudo clausa) ; from Yirginia. 

Agarsbury, G. S. A hawk (Buteo sicainsoni). 

Alaslca Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. Two skeletons of pup 
^eals ; from Alaska. 

Aldrich, C. B. A small collection of Indian implements j from Iowa. 

Allen, C. A. Specimens of birds ; from California. 

Allen, Walter. Specimens of rock ; from Maryland. 

Anderson, W. A., and H. C. Harrison. A specimen of leather-back 
turtle {Sphargis coriacea)', from York Elver, Virginia. 

Andross, William W. A stone ax 5 from Connecticut. 

Angus, J. Si^ecimens of mineral ; from North Carolina. 

Atlcins, Charles G. Samples of salmon-hatching trays and frames used 
at Bucksport, Me. ; aiid a model of fish way, at Bangor, Me. 

Atlcinson, Fdioard. Samples of silk-weaving from the Glasgow Indus- 
trial School. 

Atwood, Capt. JSr. F. Samples of cod-liver oil 5 from Provincetown, Mass. 

Babcock, Br. 8. F. {through Charles Bau). Samples of mica ; from Ches- 
ter County, S. C. 

Barker, Henry L. Specimens of living snakes {Coluber), and turtles 
{Fseudemys scabra) ; from South Carolina. 

Ballou, J. JV". Specimen of mineral ; from North Carolina. 

Banta, W. V. Specimen of Indian pottery ; from Iowa. 

Barbour, John S. {through John T.Harris). Sample of coal 5 from Vir- 
ginia. 

Barnetf, G. W. Specimens of mineral ; from Texas. 

Barry, J. Thomas. Specimens of mountain blacksnake {Coluber obso- 
Ictus) ; from Maryland. 

BartJett, J. H, ((? Sons, New Bedford, Mass. Samples of whale oils and 
bone. 

Bassett, Wm. H. Spawn of scui); from New Bedford, Mass. 

Bateman, J. F. Specimen of salamander ; from Maryland. 

Beach, M. S. Specimen of mineral ; from Wisconsin. 

Bean, Capt. J. TV. A j^onng Crotaphytus ; from New Mexico. 

Bean, Br. T. H. Specimens of fish {Centrarchus, Pomoxys, Chmnobryt- 
tus, d'c, &c.) ; from North Carolina. Specimens of shad from the Po- 

*NoTE. — Contributions made through the United States Commission of Fish and 
Fisheries may be found in the list of additions under Washington, D. C. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ill 

tomac Eiver. Carpet-loom and appurtenances used in 1819. (See, also, 
Washington, United States Commission Fish and Fisheries.) Very 
large general collections of natural history and ethnology, from 
Alaska and the Arctic Ocean. (See, also, Dall.) 

Seard and Thomas. Two photographs of jaw of mastodon, found in 
E"ebraslva. 

Beardslee, Commander L. A., U. S. JV. Specimens of minerals, corals, 
fishes, birds, and ethnologica -, from Alaska. 

Beardsleifs {J. W.) Sons, iSFew YorJc. Seven cases of canned and boxed 
fishes. 

Beclcwith, R. C, Acting Assistant Engineer, TJ. S. N. Specimens of cre- 
taceous fossils } from Colorado. 

Beldmg, L. A large number of specimens of the skins, nests, and eggs 
of birds, living snakes, toads, &c., plants and Indian relics; from Cal- 
ifornia. 

Bell, James, United States Land Office. A large collection of living 
snakes, specimens of birds skins, nests, and eggs, Indian relics, and 
crania, from mounds, &c. ; from Florida. 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, TJ. 8. A. Specimens of birds skins, nests, and 
eggs ; grasshoppers aud fishes ; from Fort Walla Walla, Washing- 
ton Territory. 

BenecTie, Leivis. Specimen of spider {Acroso^na rugosa, Hentz.) ; from 
Missouri. 

Benner, D. J. Specimens of cocoons of silk-worms and silk; from South 
Carolina. 

Bennett, Richard. Specimens of minerals ; from Arkansas. 

Berry, Mrs. R. P. Human skull ; from ]S"ewport, E. I. 

Billings, Melvin. A bos of Indian relics, iiottery, &c. ; from Kansas. 

Binney, W. G. A largo collection of terrestrial mollusca, identified and 
labeled, constituting his original collection and the types of his work. 

Birney, H. H. A specimen of living Brnxke {Leptophis a'stivus); from 
Washington, D. C. 

Bishop, H. J. M. Specimens of invertebrates ; from Connecticut. s 

BlacJ^ford, B. G. A large number of specimens of fishes taken along 
the Atlantic coast of the United States, from Maine to Florida. 

Blosier, R. A specimen of tailor shad {JDorosoma cepediana) ; from Ohio. 

Boardman, George A. Male and female of Barrows' golden-eye duck. 

Boehmer, George R. A deformed chicken, minerals, Indian stone ham- 
mer, snakes, and muskrat ; from Maryland. 

Booth, A., Chicago, III. Five cases of preserved salmon and one case of 
oysters. 

Booth, M. A. Specimens of diatomaceous earths ; from Long Island 
Sound. 

Boston (TJie) Rumane Society, Boston, Mass. Box of charts, medals, &c., 
issued by the society. 

Borland, Br. A. M. Four boxes of Indian implements aud fossils ; from 
Arkansas. 



112 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Bowie, Oshonie. A living turtle {Umys rugosa) ; from Virginia. 

Bowron, W. 21. Specimens of Septa ; from Virginia. 

Brad- ill, Alfred. Iron pyrites; from North Carolina. 

Bradjield, II. L. Specimen of silicified wood ; from West Virginia. 

Bradford and Anthony, Boston, Mass. A collection of fisliing tackle. 

Brady, Eev. John {through ^Y. II. Ball). SiDecimens of smelt {Osmeriis 

paeificus)', from Alaska. 
Braunstein, John A. J. Two grooved axes and a number of arrowheads ; 
from Maryland. 

Breedon, Jacob. Photographs of Castoroides ohiensis. 

Brewer, Samuel. Specimens of mineral ; from Virginia. 

Britton, W. A. Eock specimens; from Arkansas. 

Broadhcad, Prof. G. Box of fossils ; from Missouri. 

Broadus, A. Specimens of Pyrolusite; from Virginia. 

Brodhead, Boss B. Young living alligators ; frojn Florida. 

Broch, R. A. Specimens of scoria from iron furnace. 

Brown, J. B. Specimens of locusts ; from Ohio. 

Brown, J. J. Specimens of Planorbis', from Wisconsin. 

Brown, N. G. Specimens of bird-skins ; from Maine. 

Brown, IS. G. Tank of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, &c. ; from Western Xew 
York. 

Bryan, Oliver N'. Specimens of fungi; from Maryland. 

Bryant, B. D.,jr. Specimens of conglomerate ; from Maine, 

Bullen, George W. Specimens of minerals ; from Washington Territory. 

Bunn, Joseph. Scales of alligator-gar [Lepidosteiis). 

Burns, Franlc. Specimens of rock ; from Alabama. 

Burr, Dr. B. T., U. S. A. A collection of plants and insects, and alco- 
holic reptiles; from Arizona. 

Burtele, E. A box of shells ; from Alabama. 

Bush, Mrs. A. E. Specimens of California mosses. 

Busy, John H. Specimens of quartz ; from Maryland. 

Butler, Amos W. A collection of Indian arrow- and spear-heads ; from 
-Illinois. 

Caldwell, S. D. Skin of bittern {Botaurus lentiginosus) ; from District of 
Columbia. 

Gall, WilMnson, U.S. Senate. Specimens of copper ore ; from New Mex- 
ico. 

Cambridge, Mass., Museum of Comparative Zoology, Prof. Alexander Agas- 
siz. Director. A collection of North and South American fishes. 

Campbell, Charles D. A grooved stone ; from Ohio. 

Campbell, J. B. Two fossils ; from California. 

Cannon, William. Clay pipe ; from Florida. 

Carpenter, Charles. Specimen of sucker {Catostomus longirostris); from 
Lake Erie. 

Carpenter, G. A. Specimens of minerals; from Arizona. 

Caton, Judge J. D. Skull of Rydropotes inermis. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 113 

Chamherlain, M. Specimen of gull ; from Jfew Brunswick. 

Chambers, D. 21. Specimen of snake {Storeria occipitomaculata) ; from 
iS'ew York. 

Chameiircf, T7.il/. Specimens of iron ore; from Alabama. 

CJiandlee, John F. Stone axe ; from the Susquehanna river, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Chandler, Capt. B., TJ. 8. N. Specimen of cral) ; from the Samoan Is- 
lands. 

Chase, Edward A. Pair of scissors taken from stomach of cod. 

Chastain, J. T. Specimen of thread-herring {Opisthonema thrissa) ; from 
Georgia. 

Chester, H. C. Model of fishing boat. 

Choate, W. B. Skull of Indian chief. 

Christian, H. A. Mounted siiecimen of dab-chick {Podilyml)7is podiceps) ; 
from Ohio. 

Chubb, H. E. A mounted specimen of " Kirtland warbler"; from Ohio. 

Churchill, J. H. A specimen of star-nosed mole : from i^ew York. 

Cincinnati, Ohio, Cuvicr Club. A collection of bird skins. 

Clark, Franh JSf. Box of fish-hatching apparatus, eggs of white-fish, 
and specimens of fish from Lake Michigan. 

Clarl; Bobert. Specimen of mole [Microsorex hoyi) ; from Colorado. 

Clarice, Samuel C. Siiecimens of insects; from Florida. 

Clarle, Walker. Two boxes of minerals ; from New Mexico. 

Clayton, C. T. Skin of bird ; from Maryland. 

Cleneay, Thomas. Box of stone imjilements ; from Ohio. 

Coale, H. K. Collection of bird-skins, 45 species and 112 specimens. 

Coclerill, Stanard. Specimen of grass-snake {Cyclophis wstivus). 

Cole, C. A. Two cases of "Irish" moss; from Massachusetts. 

Coleman, 6. 8. Specimen of rock ; from Virginia. 

Collier, Carl (through L. Belding.) Indian stone tube; from California. 

Collins, O. H. Box of birds ; from Fort Laramie, W. T. 

Colvan, E. Deformed catfish {Amiurus albidus) ; Potomac Eiver. 

Conrad, L. Specimens of mineral ; from Ohio. 

Conroy, Bissett & Mallcson, New York City. Eight boxes of fishing rods, 
flies, and general camp outfit (purchased). B. E. 

Cook, Bichard E. Specimens of iron-ore ; from Alabama. 

Cookselle, Stanley. Ten specimens of arrow-heads. 

Cooper, George H. Bail of hair taken from stomach of cow, and two 
arrow-heads ; from Virginia. 

Copley, James D. Knife made from human bone ; from Sullivan County, 
New York. 

Corker, Capt. 8. M. {through C. C. Leslie). Specimens in alcohol of fish 
and shells taken by the sinack " H. E. Thompson," of Charleston, S. C. 

Cornwall, Prof. A. B. Jaw of blackfish [Phoccena americana). 

Corson, J. N. K., U. 8. A. Living tortoise (Testudo agassizii) and lizard 
{Sceloporus) ; from California. 

S. Mis. 31 8 



114 APPENDIX TO THE REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Coues, Dr. Mliott, U. 8. A. SpecimeDs of mammals, bircis, and bird's 
nest and eggs. 

GoXj Capt. James V. Model of South Sea Island dug-out canoe. 

Crawford, Capt. U., U. S. A. Eighteen boxes of fossils; from Dakota. 

Cromwell, Capt. Levi. Head of sail-fish {Histioplwrus americanus) ; from 
off Barnegat. 

Culler, Peter. Box of minerals ; from Maryland. 

Ball, W. E. and T. H. Bean. Forty-seven boxes of general natural his- 
tory and ethnological collections ; from Alaska. 

Bamusure, Edwin. Living black-snake {Bascanion constrictor). 

Baniel, F. V. Package of fossils ; from Texas. 

Baniel, L. 8. Specimen of mineral ; from Texas. 

Barroiv, J. W. Specimens of insects ; from Kentucky. 

Bavis, A. E. Specimens of insects 5 from Arizona. 

Bavis, E. G., TJ. 8. 8enate. Specimens of minerals; from West Virginia. 

Bavis, Joshua. Small box of stone implements ; from Maryland. 

Bennison, E. W. Trout, weighing eleven pounds; from Rangeley Lake, 
Me. (Purchased.) 

Bentj J. P. Specimens of minerals. 

Betwiler, 8. 8. Box of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 

BicMnson, E. Collection of bird's nests; from Massachusetts. 

BoaJc, 31. 8. Two boxes of minerals ; from Tennessee. 

Bodge, Lieut. Col. Bichard I., U. 8. A. Box of plants and flowers ; from 
California. 

Bomnitz, E. Specimens of terrapins {Pseudemys picta). (Purchased.) 

Bonaldson, Thomas. Eight boxes of minerals ; from the " Lexington 
Mine," Montana. 

Boron, T. 8. Specimens of fish, Indian relics, and skin of wild-cat 
[Lynx rufiis) ; from Alabama. 

Borsey, B. B. Specimen of fossil \Aturia) ; from California. 

Bowell J. C. Six specimens of herons. 

Boicnman, R. E. Specimens of pike {Esox americana) and insects; from 
Virginia. 

Brane, Br. 0. A. Stone ax ; from Saint George County, Md. 

Briver & 8choJield. Specimen of monkey [Cercopithecus). 

Budley, W. L. Section of fossil tree ; from Kentucky. 

Buges, Prof. A If redo. Box of birds' skins, insects, reptiles, &c. ; from state 
of Guanajuato, Mexico. 

Bummon, Bichard. A living blind chicken. 

Burand, Wm. 8. Plant; from Michigan. 

Bupre, B. A. Specimens of minerals ; from South Carolina. 

Rarll, B. E. Isiue boxes and tanks of fresh and alcoholic specimens of 
fisliGs from various places along the Atlantic coast of the Southern 
States ; fishing gear used in Florida and the Carolinas; yoke for pat- 
ent knee of dory ; one fish-sound extractor ; a collection of fish sounds, 
and samples of Yui)on tea, from North Carolina. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 115 

Uarll, B. -£/., and M. McDonald. Two tanks of alcoholic specimens of 

fishes ; from North Carolina. 
Easterday^ Geo. TF., and J. B. Baclitell. Specimens of minerals; from 

Beaver Creek, Md. 
Edmonds^ Bichard H. Two cases of canned crabs and specimens of 

oyster shells, also photograi)hs of fish-canning establishments. 
Edwards, Vinal N'. Nine boxes of alcoholic sj^ecimens of fishes; fi-om 

Wood's Holl, Mass. 
Eisen, Gustaf. A collection of alcoholic specimens of reptiles; from 

California. 
Elegat, WilUain B. A specimen of trilobite ; from Ohio. 
Endlich, F. M. Specimens of hnnting implements nsed by the Wafjsiana 

Indians of British Guiana; skins of jaguar and monkey, and dried 

si)ecimens of trunk and flying fishes; also aboriginal West Indian 

pottery. 
English, Commodore Earl, TJ. 8. JSf. Specimens of minerals. 
Es])erson, Hon. Henry, Surveyor-General, Dakota. Three boxes of min- 
erals ; from various mining claims in Dakota. 
Evans, C. H. Specimen of graphite. 
Evans, Commander B. D., TJ. 8. N. Two boxes of soundings ; from the 

North Atlantic, taken by the United States steamer Saratoga during 

the years 1879 and 1880. 
Fair, A. D, M. Box of shells ; from Honduras.- A smaU box of fossils ; 

from New Jersey; and teeth of porbeagle shai'k. 
Fairhanlis, N. K. [through A. Booth.) Specimens of California salmon 

taken in Geneva Lake, Wisconsin. 
FalJciner, W. B. Specimen of asbestos ; from Virginia. 
Farquhar, Col. F. If., U. 8. A., Secretary Light-Horise Board. A large 

collection of corals ; from the Tortugas, Florida. 
Findley, J. J. Specimens of minerals ; from New Mexico. 
Findlcy, 8. M. Hawk [Buteo horealis) ; from Virginia. 
Figyelmesy, Fhilip, United States consul Bemarara, British Guiana. Bark 

canoe and paddles, and collection of pottery and basket-work ; made 

by the Indians of British Guiana. 
Fisher, W. J. Mollusks ; ft'om Maine. 
Fitch, Captain. Nest of Brazilian oriole. 

Fitshugh, B.H. Specimen of fish {Bercopsis pellucida) ; from Michigan. 
Fleetwood, William A. Specimen of pointer. 
Fletcher, Thomas. Small box of minerals ; from Arkansas. 
Forns, Baymond W. Mounted specimens of birds. 
Forviey, George H. Specimens of minerals ; from New Mexico. 
Fox, Hannibal. Metallic mask ; from Ohio (lent for casting). 
Friedricksten, Count A. von Donhoff. Stone mask (lent for casting). 
Frinckel, George N. Specimen of talc. 
Frizzell, Bernard F. Specimen of flying squirrel {Sciuropterus volticella) j 

from Washington, D. C. 



116 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Fullen, Andrew. Small box of minerals ; from West Yirginia. 

Furher, F. B. Specimens of minerals ; from Texas. 

Fiwr^ diaries E. Specimen of iron pyrites. 

Galbraith, Frank G. Two boxes Indian implements and one tank of al- 
coholic specimens of fishes ; from Lancaster County, Pa. 

Galindo, Don Ignacio {through Br. E. Palmer). Mummy and surround- 
ings ; from cave at Coahuila, Mexico. 

Galliher, N'. M. Specimen of ore ; from Virginia. 

Garlicic, Theodatus. Two casts of fishes. 

Gamier, John H. Si^ecimens of snakes ; from Ontario . 

Garratt, A. {through Br. Hartmann). Stone ax ; from the Society Isl- 
ands. 

Gearn, W. B. Seeds of Ghenopodinm, taken from Indian mound in Da- 
kota. 

Gere, J. E. Box of Indian relics ; from Wisconsin. 

Gernerd, J. M. M. Specimens of fossiliferous rocks ; from Pennsylvania. 

Gesner, William. Living specimens of mussels; from Alabama. 

Gihbs, George J. Deposit taken from old salt pond, Grand Turks Isl- 
and, W. I. 

Gilbert, Charles H. Four tanks alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from the 
Pacific coast of the United States. See also under Jordan, D. S. 

Gilbert,, G. K. One tank and box of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from 
Utah. 

Gilliss, Capt. James, U. S. A. Pair of elk antlers; from Wyoming. 

Gloss, Joseph B. Living box tortoise [Gistudo clausa) ; from the District 
of Columbia. 

Gloucester {Mass.) Isinglass and Glue Company. Four boxes of samples 
of isinglass, glue, &c. 

Glover, Prof. Townend. Case of mounted specimens of birds. 

Good ale, 8. L. Sample of food extract of mackerel. 

Gookin, W. W. Samjiles of beet sugar and sirup. 

Goss, JSr. S. Bird-skin; from Briers' Island, N. Scotia. 

Gough, Stephen E.,jr. Two living horned frogs {Phrynosoma). 

Grop, L. Box of fossil ferns ; from Arkansas. 

Graham, A. H. Osteological specimens ; from mound in Texas. 

Gray, Professor Asa. Four Indian implements (lent for casting). 

Gray, 8. C. Sample of soapstone ; from Ohio. 

Greely, Lieut. A. W., TJ. 8. A. Pharyngeal bones of drum {Pogonias 
chromis) ; from Sandy Hook. 

Green, Lieut. L. B., U. 8. A. Portion of skull of bear; from Wyoming 
Territory. 

Green, Seth. Collection of fish-hatchiog apparatus. 

Griffith, G. E. Specimen of blue-tailed lizard; from Maryland. 

Griffith, Bavid. Specimens of minerals ; from Maryland. 

Grigsby, C. 8. Water-worn piece of limestone ; from Tennessee. 

Grigsby, J. B. Specimen of ore ; from Tennessee. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 117 

Grimes, E. G., U. S. A. Swan ; i'roiii Yaukton, Dakota. " 

Griscome, J. W. Specimens of Branchipiis. 

Guesde, L. Jar of alcoholic mammals, fishes, and reptiles; from Guade- 
loupe. 

Haines, Macy P. A collection of fossils ; from Indiana. 

Holler, A. 8. Specimens of insects ; from Virginia. 

Hoisted, Miss May A. Lower jaw of fresh-water drum {Haploidonotus 
grunniens) ; from the Mississippi Eiver. 

Hamlen, William. Two fossil oysters, from the Potomac Eiver. 

Hampton, Wade, U. 8. Senate. Specimens of alligator-gar and shovel- 
nosed cat-fish {Litholepis and Polyodon) ; from the Mississippi River. 

Hancock, John. Specimens of minerals ; from Arizona and Texas. 

Harrison, George B. Bird ; from Virginia. 

Hartman^ Andrew. Stone ax ; from York County, Pennsylvania. 

Hatch, Philo T. Sample of shell marl ; from New York. 

Halves, Br. G. E. Insect ; from Florida. 

Hawley, Dr. G. A. Medal of Indian or Mexican make ; from Guatemala. 

Hoy ward, F. W. Living specimens of ^S^irewand Amphiumo', from South 
Carolina. 

Healy, Rev. P. Horned-fi-og ; from California. 

Henclde, Ambrose L. Specimens of Indian implements ; from Virginia. 

Henderson, Judge John G. Four boxes of Indian relics taken from the 
" JS"aples Mound," Illinois. 

Henderson, 8. J. Specimens of minerals ; from Ohio. 

Henry, L. B. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Henshow, H. W. A small collection of bird skins; also stone pestle 
from Idaho. 

Hereford, Frank, JJ. 8. Senate. Specimens of minerals; from West Vir- 
ginia. 

Herendeen Copt. E. B. Specimens of stone relics ; from the North Pacific 
Islands. 

Hering, C. J. Collection of natural history and ethnological specimens; 
from Surinam. 

Hermes, Dr. Two specimens of eels ; from Germany. 

Herring (& Co., New York. One large burglar and fire proof safe, man- 
ufactured expressly for and presented to the TJ. S. National Museum. 

Hess, F. Meteoric stone ; from Iowa. 

Heyman, Professor. Section of whale vertebra. 

Hicks, G. H. Indigo bird {Cyanospiza cyanea), and collection of Indian 
relics ; from Michigan. 

High, Augustus. Specimens of minerals ; from Dakota Territory. 

Hill, A. C. Specimens of insects; from Vermont. 

Hill, D. JD. Minerals ; from New Mexico. 

Hill, B. T. Specimens of crystals. 

Hillman, Prof. Uno. Samj)les of albumen made from the eggs of the cod. 

Hilyer, Prof. Henrico. Alcoholic specimens of fishes and collection of 
bird skins ; from Italy. 



118 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Sinston, J. H. Si)ecimen of coal ; from Georgia. 

Hitchcoclc, George N. Egg of a gull. 

Sitz, Charles. Stone ax. 

Robbs, Orlando. Two boxes of land and fresli-water shells, and Palaeo- 
zoic fossUs ; from Indiana. 

HocJcJiaus, F. W. Specimens of iron pyrites ; from Iowa. 

Hollenbusch, H. H. Box of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 

HolUday, J. G. Specimen of meteoric stone ; from South Carolina. 

Holmes, W. H. Specimens of quartz, calcite, and obsidian.; from the 
Yellowstone National Park. 

Horan, Henry. Specimens of living snakes ; from Maryland and Vir- 
ginia. 

Horn Silver Mining Gompany. Specimens of ores. 

Hoive & French, Boston, Mass. Specimens of American isinglass. 

Howgate, Gapt. H. W., U. S. A. Two living Eskimo dogs ; from Green- 
land. 

Huhbell, — . Specimen of soapstone ; from Virginia. 

Hughlett, Thomas. Specimens of sea trout [Cynoscion regalis) and ribbon- 
fish ; from Maryland. 

Hunt, B. A. Collection of ethnological specimens; from Georgia. 

Hunter, John. Specimen of decomposed feldspar. 

Huntingdon, Charles L., U. S. N. Two boxes of soundings ; taken by 
the U. S. S. Alert in Yeddo Bay, Japan. 

Huysman, Theodore {through Br. G. Ban.) Stone celt; found in the 
State of Magdalena, United States of Colombia. 

Hyams, G. N. Collection of birds' eggs ; from North Carolina. 

Ingersoll, Ernest. Box of Indian relics ; from New York. 

Japan, Bureau of Education of (Monihusho). Two boxes of botanical 
specimens. 

Jennings, John. Chunky- stone ; from Tennessee (lent for casting). 

Johnston, G. W. Specimen of sjjarrow {Passerella Toumsendi) ; from Cali- 
fornia. 

Johnson, Blaster Samuel M, Albino rat ; from South Africa. 

Johnson, Samuel M. Collection of Indian pottery and implements, and 
living tortoise and snake ; from Texas. 

Jones, Mrs. A. E. Living water-snake {Tropidonotus fasciatus) ; from 
Virginia. 

Jones, Alfred. Leaf, with insect adhering. 

Jones, B. A. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Jones, George G. Casts of Indian imj)lements ; from Connecticut. 

Jones, John P., United States Senate. Specimen of mineral ; from Ne 

vada. 
Jordan, Bavid S., and Charles H. Gilbert. Sixty -five boxes and tanks of 
fishes, taken along the Pacific coast of the United States ; also, a series 
of fish preparations for food, «&c., obtained in San Francisco. 
Jordan, W. N. Specimen of mineral ; from South Carolina. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 119 

Jouy^ P. L. Specimens of fishes, from Washiugtou Market ; specimens 

of snakes and birds, from Maryland ; and a large collection of birds, 

from Cobb's Island. 
Kefauver, H. B. Specimen of rock ; from Maryland. 
Kelly, Moses. Specimen of chromic iron ; from Marjdand. 
Kemp, J. C. Grape-vine borer ; from Virginia. 

Kendall, J. K. Specimen of barnacle goose ; from Jamaica Bay, L. I. 
Kenyon, 0. A. Specimen of worms ; from Iowa. 
Kerne, Lieut. L. M., United States Bevenue Marine. Arrow-head ; from 

Port Eoyal, S. C. 
Kidder, Br, J. R. Tank of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from Beyrout, 

Syria. 

Kilby, . Egg of tnrkey-bnzzard ; from Virginia. 

King, LarJcin. Specimiens of minerals ; from Texas. 

KitcJien, G. M. Specimens of i)lants ; from Virginia. 

Kniclcerboel'er, Millis. Package of seeds, &c. ', from Florida. 

Knott, John, jr. Specimen of hair-snake [Gordius). 

Koehele, Albert. Box of birds' skins and eggs, and insects. 

Koehler, William. Sample of fish food. 

Koontz, George JS. Specimen of ore. 

Kost, Prof. J. Collection of fossil rocks, &c. ; from Michigan. 

Kumlien, Ludwig. Leather made from skin of stnrgeou ; specimen of 

fish from Lake Ontario ; and stnffed skin of salmon from Cape Vincent, 

^. Y. 
Kuntz, George F. Box of minerals. 
Langdon, F. W. Box of Indian relics ] from Ohio. 
Lanphear, G. B. Specimens of fishes, 

Latimer, A. W. Fossil ; from the Chattahooche Eiver, Alabama. 
Latimer, W. H. Stone image ; from Porto Eico, West Indies. 
Lawrence, Alfred N. Specimen offish; from New Jersey. 
Lawrence, George JV. Stone ax ; from Essex County, N. J. 
Lawrence, Br. George W. Specimen of thread-herring {Opisthonema 

thrissa) ; from Arkansas. 
Lawrence, Robert. Specimen of dwarf deer. 
Lee, Br. W. Hair-snakes ((ron/Mts). 

Leppelman, L. Three boxes of Indian relics ^ from Ohio (lent for casting). 
Leslie, Charles C. A collection of fresh and alcoholic specimens of 

fishes ; from South Carolina. 
Lewis, L. L. Specimens of plants and rocks; from New York. 
Lightburn, Br. B. E., TJ. 8. A. Living specimen of Gila monster 

{ITeloderma horridum) ; from Arizona. 
Lippold, George. Living specimen of snake {Ophibolus doliatus) ; from 

the District of Columbia. ' 
Locke, W. M. Deformed specimen of soft-shell turtle {Achedonectes spin- 
ifer) ; from Illinois. 



120 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Logan, John J.., United States Senate. Samples of coal 5 from Illinois. 

Longjieldj Frank. Specimens of snakes and insects 5 from Texas. 

Loicry, Robert. Albino specimen of snowbird {Junco hyemaUs) 5 from 
Virginia. 

Luther, S. M. Specimens of Indian relics; from Ohio and Michigan 
(lent for casting). 

Luttrell, Chester. Box of Indian reUcs ; from Alabama. 

Luttrell, JElston. Three boxes of ethnological and mineralogical speci- 
mens ; from Alabama. 

Lyon, V. W. Two boxes of fossils ; from Indiana. 

Maddox, W. L. Specimen of fossil ; from Ohio. 

Marnoclc, G. W. Specimens of toads ; from Texas. 

Marshall, George. Specimens of birds ; from Maryland. 

Marvin Brothers and Bartlett, Portsmouth, JV. H. Five cases of samples 
of cod-liver oil. 

Matthews, Charles. Specimen of caterpillar ; from Arkansas. 

Mayo, Henry, & Co., Boston, Mass. A large number of samples of the 
various kinds of preserved fishes. 

McCarthey, Capt. John F. Specimen of bat-fish [Malthecuhifrons) ; from 
Florida. / 

McChesney, Charles E. Two birds' skins (Passerculns, Melospiza) ; from 
Dakota. 

McCormiclc & Connahle. Specimens of rock-sturgeon and whiteflsh; 
from Lake Michigan. 

McDonald, Col. Marshall. Eight boxes of alcoholic specimens of fishes, 
&c. ; from the South Atlantic States. 

McEweu, John B. Can of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; from Tennes- 
see. 

McGraw, James C. Mineral ; from West Virginia. 

McLean, Rev. J. P. Specimens of Indian relics ; from Ohio and Indi- 
ana. 

McMenamin & Co., Hampton, Va. Case of canned crabs. 

Mazyclc, Lieut. J. Two shells 5 from South Carolina. 

MazycJi, W. St. J. Specimens of sponges, corals, and shells ; from South 
Carolina. 

Medsen, Peter [through Prof. D. S. Jordan). Two tanks of fishes ; from 
Utah. 

Meigs, M. C, Quartermaster- General, U. S. A. Plaster molds of medall- 
ions of Washington, Lincoln, Chase, and Seward. 

Mell, P. H,jr. Insect and shells ; from Alabama. 

Merchant, George. Models of seine-needles and pins. 

Merman, Lyman A. Samples of herring oil and specimens of herring. 

Merriam, Joseph W., United States Consul,* Iquique, Peru. Samples of 
Peruvian guano. 

Merrill, Br. J. C, U. S. A. Specimens of mammals, fishes, and birds; 
from Montana. 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 121 

Metcalf, M. Albino raccoon and stone liatcliet; from Battle Creek, 
Michigan. 

Metcalfe, James K. Specimens of insects ; from New Mexico. 

Metz, Br. Charles L. Box of Indian implements ; from Ohio. 

2l€xico, Wational Museum of. G. Mendosa, Director. Oast of a sacrifi- 
cial stone. 

Milam, B. G. Frankfort fishing-reel (purchased). 

Miller, Franli. Box of fossils ; from Texas. 

Miller, Mrs. J. E. Specimens of rocks ; from Xew York. 

Miller, M. A. Box of Indian relics ; from Virginia. 

Mims, E. J. Specimens of plants ; from South Carolina. 

Mintzer, W. A., P. A. Engineer, TJ. 8. N. Alcoholic specimen of fish; 
from Delaware. 

Mohley, G. B. Specimens of German carp ; from Alabama. 

Money, Eon. E. B. Specimens of ores ; from Mississppi. 

2Ioore, G. R. Specimens of Indian implements; from Virginia. 

2Ioorc, John. Specimens of rock conglomerate ; from Arkansas. 

Moore, JSf. B. Lamprey eel and feathers of wild turkey. 

Moran, Br. George H., TJ. S. A. One living and one stuffed specimen of 
Gila monster; from Arizona. 

Morrison, J. E. B. Living moth; from Washington. 

Mueller, Br. B. Two Indian relics ; from Indiana. 

Muis, W. S. Box of shells; from Utah. 

Mundt, A. H. Box of fossil plants; from Illinois. 

Myers, Justin M. T. Box of fossils; from Ohio. 

Nelson, E. W. Seventeen boxes of general natural history and ethno- 
logical specimens ; from Alask'a. 

Nelson, John. Box of fishermen's clothing. 

Nelson, Robert. Two living garter snakes {Eutwnia) ; from District of 
Columbia. 

Neve, E. Three silver Indian ("?) relics ; from Florida. 

Newsome, Bavid. Specimen of ore ; from Oregon. 

Newton, Edward. Living specimen of yellow boa ( GMlohothriis inornatws) 
and box of bird skins ; from Jamaica. 

Nichols, Mrs. E. J. Specimens of ores ; from Texas. 

Nichols, Br. U. A. A. Two boxes of birds and alcoholic specimens of 
natural history ; from Dominica. 

Niles, Franlc G. Specimen of Crilla ; from Connecticut. 

Niles, J. Nest and eggs of swallow, and lizard ; from Pennsylvania. 

Nixon, J. S. Specimens of birds and mole {Gondylura) ; from Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Nodor, Br. 0. B. Photographs of tusks of Bison latifrons. 

North, Rev. J. B. Si)ecimeus of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Nye, Millard, jr. Box of Indian relics ; from Massachusetts. 

Ober, A. K. Stone implement ; from Massachusetts. 

Ober, F. A. A large collection of natural history specimens, i^rincipally 
birds : from the West Indies. 



122 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Ogilhy, J. Douglas. A collection of birds' skius ; from Texas. 

Orcutt, G. R. A small box of shells ; from California. 

Osborn, A. [through T. B. Ferguson). Jar of alcoholic specimens of fishes ; 
from the Potomac Elver. 

Oshorn c€* Vail. Two specimens of horse-fish [Vomer setipinnis); from 
New Jersey. 

Palmer, ^VilUain. Specimens of birds and reptiles ; from Virginia and 
Maryland. 

ParTcer, H. A. Specimen of cup-stone; from Illinois. 

Parlier, Joel G. Fish-hatching box, used at Grand Eapids, Mich. 

Parlchwrst, G. D. Specimen of coal ; from Colorado. 

Patterson, H. N. Box of water-plants [Nynvphcea tuherosa) ; from Illi- 
nois. 

Patterson, S. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia. 

Paxson, 8. W. Specimens of minerals ; from New Mexico. 

Peckham, B. W. Specimen of smooth pufler [Tetrodgn Imvigatus)] from 
Connecticut. 

Pellet, E. P. Box of minerals ; from the United States of Colombia. 

Perry, J. W. Specimens of crystals ; from Florida. 

Perry, Ralph. Indian mortar ; from Indiana. 

Philadelphia, Pa., Zoological Society of. A number of skulls and skele- 
tons of monkeys. 

Pierce, Milton P. Fragments of Indian pottery ; from New Jersey. 

Pirz, Anthony. Two boxes of stalactites and specimens of Proteus an- 
guinus ; from Adelburg Grotto, in Carniola. 

Plant, J. G. Collection of minerals and Indian relics ; from Georgia. 

Plumacher, E. H., United States Gonsul, Maracaibo, Venezuela. Collec- 
tion of butterflies ; from Venezuela. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Nine boxes of living reptUes and two boxes of alco- 
holic specimens of fishes ; from Cuba. 

Polkinhorn, H. Living tree-toad [Hyla versicolor)', from Washington, 
D. C. 

Polleys, W. H., United States Gonsul, Barhadoes, W. I. [through William 
Wood). Specimens of septaria and infusorial earths ; from the West 
Indies. 

Poicel, Samuel. Scale of tarpum [Megalops thrissoides) ; from Rhode 
Island. 

Powell, J. W., Director Ethnological Bureau, Smithsonian Institution. 
Sixty-four boxes of ethnological specimens ; from Arizona and New 
Mexico ; collected by James Stevenson and Frank H. Cushing. 

Prentiss, Dr. D. W. Specimens of ants. 

Prindle, Franlc. Specimens of [Diadophis punctatus); from Virginia. 

Proctor, J. 0. Model of fishing- schooner Mary Odell, of Gloucester, 
Mass. (Purchased.) 

Prosser, William Q. F. SiDccimen of Octopus; from Seattle Bay, Wash-, 
ington Territory. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 123 

Prouty, C. E. Collector of Customs, Indianola, Tex. Mounted specimen 
of crane. . 

Fryer, Jasper, N'eio TorJc, W. Y. Sauai)les of fish oils. 

Pumpelly, Prof. E. Eighteen pacliages of minerals; from various locali- 
ties in the United States. 

Pusey, >S\ jV. Specimens of stickleback ( Gasierosteus aculeatus) ; from Dela- 
ware. 

Eamsey, Alexander, Secretary of War. Two boxes of minerals; from 
Minnesota. 

Eamsey,' JSf. A. Specimen of clay ; from Durham, N. C. 

Eattan, V. Sx)ecimens of mosses and lichens ; from California. 

Eedding, B. B. Bulbs of Camassia esculenta; from California. 

Eeid, George W. Specimens of minerals and Indian reUcs ; from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Eemington, Cyrus K. Buckskin j)urse, from Pike's Peak, Colorado. 

Eeynolds, Br. Elmer B. Specimens of minerals and Indian relics ; from 
Virginia. 

Eichard, John H. Box of living turtles ; from Pennsylvania. 

Eichards, A. H. Specimen of mineral ; from California. 

Eichmond, Va., College of. Specimen of Tuclcahoe (Indian bread). 

Eichter, Br. Theodore. Specimens of minerals ; from Freiburg. 

Eidgway, Eohert. Specimens of birds' skins; from Illinois, Virginia, 
and California. 

Eidgway, Eohert, and Henry Marshall. A large collection of birds' 
skins; from Cobb's Island and vicinity. 

Eives, J. H. Specimens of rocks ; from Virginia. 

Eobertson, Br. W. B. Head of brook trout [SalveUmis fontinalis) ; from 
the James Piver, Virginia. 

Eohey, Eufus. Specimens of beetles; from Maryland. 

Eohinson, C, jr. Two snakes (Tropedonotus sipedon and OpMholus do- 
liatus) ; from the District of Columbia. 

Eogers, John S. Specimens of glue, isinglass, «&c. 

Eomeyn, H., U. S. A. Si)ecimens of sea-horse {Hippocampus)', from 
Virginia. 

Eosamond, W. B. Specimen of mineral ; from Ohio. 

Bounds, Ealph W. Specimens of Maine flora. 

Eowlet, F. Indian relic ; from New York (lent for casting). 

Euby, Charles, private, U. S. A. Fossil shells and bones, one pair of 
elk-horns and one pair of deer-horns ; from Fort Laramie, W. T. 

Eusby, 8. H. Indian dish ; from New Mexico. 

Eussell, Thomas J. Box of shells and broken pottery ; from Texas. 

Samford, Hon. W. J. Specimen of ore. 

Sanborn, J. K. Specimens of conglomerate. 

Saunders, Col. John S. Living catfish ; from Chesapeake Bay. 

Sayre, Br. B. A. Carved stone mask; from New York (lent for casting). 



124 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Schacht & Fnichlcnecht, SandusJcy, Ohio. Samiiles of caviar, isinglass, 
and fish oils. . 

ScJilcgcl, Jacob. !Sj)ecimens of feldspar ; from Virginia. 

Schneck, Dr. J. Specimens of living tortoises (Pseudemys elegans) ; from 
Illinois. 

Schonborn, H. F. Two eggs of dove {Streptopelia risoria). 

Scott, David W. Specimens of birds' skins. 

Sebring, James F., jr. "Bull-dog" Catlinite pipe; made by the Sioux 
Indians of Dakota (purchased). 

Sellman, Henry G., Fastport, Me. Six boxes of "sardines." 

Sewall, G. A., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Specimens of insects ; 
from New Mexico. 

Shaiv, B. F. Model of fishway used at Anamosa, Iowa. 

Sheldon, D. S. Box of fossils and a living snake ; from Iowa. 

Sheperd, B. T. Box of alcoholic reptiles ; from Ohio. 

Sidnian, George D. Specimens of minerals; from South Africa. 

Simmons, C. A. Two fossil shark's teeth; from Florida. 

Simmons, Newton. Eighteen arrow-heads, from Maryland; and a speci- 
men of centipede, from Texas. 

Slater, J. H.,' U. S. Senate. Specimen of coal; from Oregon. 

Slaughter, John B. Specimens of minerals ; from Texas. 

Small, Edgar A. Specimens of birds' eggs. 

Small, E. E. Embryo porpoise ; from Provincetown, Mass. 

Smiley, G. W. Specimen of moth. 

Smith, llrs. Emma {through Maj. J. W. Powell). Specimens of Indian 
wedding cake; Cattaraugus Eeservation, New ILork. . 

Smith, Charles B. Six arrow-heads ; from Maryland. 

Smith, Charles J. Specimens of smelts ( Osmerus pacificus) ; from Oregon. 

Smith, Everett. Model of fishway used on the Penobscot Eiver (pur- 
chased) and specimens of smelts [Osmerus mordax). 

Smith, Prof. R. L. Century of microscopic slides. 

Smith, W. A. Specimens of black crystals; from Texas. 

Smyth, John H., United States Minister Resident to Liberia. Specimens 
of African handiwork ; from Liberia. 

Snow, A. L. Specimen of zinc ore ; from Tennessee. 

Snoic, FranUin, rf-r Co., Boston, Mass. A large collection of preserved 
fish of various kinds. 

Southiviclc, J. M. K. Specimens of mackerel {Scomber) ; from Newport, 
E.I. 

Spangler, George. SiJecimen of water-dog {Hecturus lateralis) ; from In- 
diana. 

Spcrry, Edward H. Specimen of hare {Lagomys princeps) ; from Colorado. 

Sperry, L. A. Si)ear-point ; from Illinois. 

Spinner, F. E. Box of fossil shells ; from Florida. 

Spray, S. J. Specimen of weasel (Putorius vulgaris) ; from Colorado. 

Springer, Hon. William. Sx)ecimens of minerals. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 125 

Stabler, James P. Six bawks and three owls and a living blacksnake 

{Bascanion constrictor) ; from Maryland. 
Star Mica Company, Pensacola, Fla. One box of minerals. 
Stearns, Silas. Five boxes of specimens of fishes, &c. ; from Florida. 
Stephens, Hon. A. H. Box of minerals; from Georgia. 
Sterling J. E. N. Specimens of fish ; from Maryland. 
Stevenson, James. Box of pottery ; from l^ew Mexico ; and a specimen 

of Florida alligator. 
Stevenson, James, and Mr. Russell. Six boxes of fossils and rocks ; col- 
lected in ISTew Mexico. (See Powell.) 
Stinipson, William G. Spider and nest. 
Stone, Livingston. Three boxes of fossils and a keg of alcoholic salmon 

skins ; from California. 
Stout, W. G. Insect ; from Arkansas. 

Swan, James G. Three boxes specimens of fishes, specimens of dried 
fish piit np by Indians, and a carved Indian club ; from Washington 
Territory and Vancouver's Island 
Siveeny, Br. B. 0. Specimens of siscowet and trout; from Lake Su- 
perior. 
Sweet, Charles D. Specimens of insects ; from Florida. 
Sweezey, Goodwin I). Specimen of mole {Blarina talpoides) ; from Massa- 
chusetts. 
Siceitzer, Lieut. J. B., IT. S. A. Eagle-ray ; from Fort Brown, Texas. 
Symmes, F. M. Box of stone implements ; from Indiana. 
Talbot, Walter M. Specimens of minerals ; from Maryland. 
Taylor, Fred. W. Specimens of mineral s an d ores ; from various localities. 
Taylor, Br. H. W., U. S. A. Horned-toad {Phrynosoma) ; from the 

Indian Territory. 
Taylor, W. G. Specimen of banded rudder-fish ; from the Potomac Eiver. 
Taylor, W. J. Four boxes of specimens of natural history; from Georgia. 
Thomas, W. G. ' Specimen of beetle {Bynastes hercules) -, from Forth Caro- 
lina. 
Thompson, C. W. Specimens of coal ; from Dakota. 
Thompson, Baniel. Two insects from cane-plant ; from Louisiana. 
Thomson, J. E., JSfeic Bedford, Mass. Barrel of whale-boat fittings. 
Thurber, E. W. Specimens of minerals ; from Ehode Island. 
Tichliemaise {Lndian). Specimens of birds and antlers of deer ; from the 

Indian Territory. 
Tillson, Perry. Cast of Indian relic ; from Ohio. 
TraMng Brothers. Specimen of mineral ; from Wyoming. 
Tracy, C. C. Specimens of minerals ; from Nevada. 
Traill, C. S. Specimens of shells {Rhynchonella) ; from Xew Zealand. 
Trezevant, Br. G. T. {through E. E. Jacl'son). Specimens of fossil teeth 

of sharks ; from the phosphate beds of South Carolina. 
Tripp, T. ill. Bird skin {¥cphoecetes niger) ; from Colorado. 
True, F. W. Two stone implements ; from Virginia. 



126 APPENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. ' 

Tuerpe, Albert. Specimens of sirens; from Texas. 

Tugffic, W. 0. Two bones of fossil elephant ; from Texas. 

Ulrich, E. 0. Box of fossils ; from Arkansas. 

Union Oyster Company^ Baltimore^ Md. Four boxes of canned oysters. 

Valentine, Gabriel. Specimens of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 

Valentine, Mann 8. Sample of extract of oyster. 

Van Camp, Br. Specimen of lisli ; from the Fiji Islands. 

Vene, Leroy. Water- worn rock ; from Virginia. 

Wadham, J. JEJ. Specimens of seeds and minerals ; from California. 

Wagg, Br, James. Specimen of mineral, from North Carolina. 

Walker, S. T. A collection of birds' skins, Indian relics, and shells ; 

from Florida. 
Wallcer, T. G. Specimens of peat ; from IsTew Jersey. 
WaUace, John. Stuffed skin of raccoon {Procyon lotor). 
Wallis, B. A. Specimen of pipe-fish [Syngnathus peckianus) ; from Mary- 
land. 
Ward, Prof. H. A. A bottle of fishes ; from Ceylon and Borneo. 
Washington, B. G. : 
Interior Bepartment : 
Box of plants, seeds, and woods, &c., collected by >S'. Hayes. Speci- 
mens of minerals ; from California. 
Soils collected between Sierra asTevada and City Eocks, by F. A. 

Bishop. 
Census Office. (See under the names of Bdward Atkinson and W. 

M. Chmeuret.) 
General Land Office. fSee under usiuies of Surveyor- General John 

Wasson and Special Agent James Bell. 
Geological Survey, Clarence King, United. States Geologist. (See un- 
der the names of G. K. Gilbert and B. Pumpelly.) 
Office of Indian Affairs : 
Two boxes of Indian relics from graves at Forestvdle, ]^. Y. B. 
Sherman, Agent, collector. 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. {Prof. Spencer F. 
Baird, Commissioner.) About 225 boxes of zoological collections 
from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, made by Prof. A. E. Verrill, 
Richard Rathbun, Charles H. Gilbert, G. Brown Goode, A. Hotcard 
Clark, and B. S. Jordan; also, a number of models of fishing ves- 
sels and implements. (See also under the names of Charles G. 
Atkins, Tarleton H. Bean, H. C. Chester, A. B. Clark, F. N. Clark, 
J. W. Collins, W. H. Ball, R E. Earll, T. B. Ferguson, Charles H. 
Gilbert, G. Broicn Ooode, Willia77i Hamlen, E. Ingersoll, B. S. Jor- 
dan, M. McBonald, John S. Saunders, Neivton Simrnons, Charles 
W. Smiley, Livingston Stone, and James G. Swan.) Specimens of 
marine natural history have besides been received from the fol- 
lowing captains and crews of fishing vessels sailing principally 
from Gloucester, Mass. : 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 127 

Washington, D. C. — Continued. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Abbe, TV. A. Sxieciinens of young meuliadcu; from Promised Land, N. Y. 

Anderson, Capi. Charles F., and creiv of schooner Alice G. JFonson. Specimens 
ofspougcs(C/iaZt»a), conxls {Primnoa, Paragorgia, <fcc.), shells, sea-urcliins, 
crabs, eels{Murcenokles, Synaphobranchus), i'mhes {Centrosci/llium), &c. ; from 
George's Bank. 

Andrews, B. W., Benjamin Marshall, and others, of Eockport. Pair of iron roll- 
ers used in 1840 at Rockport, Mass., in the manufacture of isinglass from 
fish sounds. 

Ardendale, Edward, schooner Josephine. Specimens of fishes {Hemitripterus, 
Prionoius, and Cri/ptacanthodes), crabs, star-fishes, and other marine inverte- 
brates; from off Cape Sable, Pollock's Rips, and Ipswich Bay. 

Bishop, John H. Models of schooners Emma S. Osier and John W. Smart. 

Borson, William. Branch of sea coral (Primnoa reseda), with barnacles. 

Brown, Edward 0., schooner Albert A. Harding. Specimens of fishes, shrimps, 
and stomachs of mackerel ; taken along coasts of Maine and Massachu- 
setts. 

Burnham, Jeremiah. Two models of fishing vessels (purchased). 

Burnham, Willard B. Two models of fishing vessels (purchased). 

Burns, Thomas. Young mackerel and sponge (Halichondria); from Seal 
Island Ground. 

Campbell, Capf. David, and crew of schooner Admiral. Specimens of corals 
{Alcyonium), sponges (Polymastia), barnacles (Balanits), star-fishes, sea 
feathers, «fec. ; from Grand Bank. 

Carroll, Capt. Frank, and a'ew of schooner Polar JVave. Specimens of fishes 
(Scopelus, Pctromi/zon, and Synaphobranchus), corals (Flabclliim, Acanclla), 
sponges, &c. ; from Saint Peter's Bank and Banquereau. 

Cavangher, Latvrence, schooner Bellerophon. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes, Syn- 
aphobranchus), sponges (Polymastia), and corals (Primnoa); from George's 
Bank. 

Colby, Charles, Specimens of shells, sea-worms, star-fishes, &c. ; from olf 
Thatcher's Island. 

Colby, Henry. Sea-gnrnard (Prionofus caroUnus) ; Gloucester Harbor. 

Collins, Capt., D. E., and creiv of schooner Gussie Blaisdell. Specimens of 
star-fishes (^sicrjas, Solaster), corals, shells, ascidians, &c.; from the Grand 
Banks. 

Collins, John, and creio of schooner Albert H. Harding. Young dog-fish with 
sack attached, and specimens of mackerel food ; from off Chatham and 
Noman's Land. 

Conly, John. Specimens offish (Auxis) ; from Gloucester Harbor. 

Corliss, Capt. William, and crew of schooner Laughing Water. Specimens of 
fishes (Cyclopterus, Petromyzon, Murcenoides), shells, star-fishes, &.C.; from 
George's Bank. 

Cousens, Captain, and crew of schooner Mist. Young skate, eggs of gastero- 
pod, finger-sponge, hydroids, shells, &c. ; from the Western Bank. 

Crew, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Isaac A. Chapman. Specimens of 
fishes (Myxine, Chirostoma, Gadas, Synaphobranchus, Chimwra, Petromyzon), 
&c., corals (Alcyonium, Acanthogorgia, Anthomastus, Keratoisis, Acanella, 
&c.), sponges (Polymastia, Halichondria, Phabellia), ascidians, sea cauli- 
flowers, hydroids, anemones, &c. ; from the Green, Saint Peter's, and 
Grand Banks and Banquereau. 

Critchett, Captain, and crew of schooner Flash. Specimens of spiders (Nym- 
phon), sponges (Polymastia), horseshoe crabs (Limulus), star-fishes, &c. ; 
from George's Bank. 



128 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

WasJdiigton, JD. C. — Continued. 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Crittenden, A. B. Fossiliferous bowlders from Cape Cod, and samples of 

trawl-rollers used iu Gloucester fisheries. 
C)idd>i, Captain, and crew of schooner Joseph 0. Specimens of mussel- shells, 

barnacles, and fishes ; from George's Bank. 
Curtcji, HtKjh, schooner Ler/al Tender. Crawfish, from the Providence River; 

and finger-sponge (Chalina) ; from the South Channel. 
Daniels, Captain, and crew of schooner David M. IliUon. Specimens of scal- 
lops, barnacles, sponges, and hydroids ; from George's Bank. 
Dempsey, Capt. William, schooner Clara F. Friend. Si)ccimen8 of fishes 

{Zoarces, Mallotus, Mijxine, Fetromyzon), corals, squids, shrimjis, sponges, 

&c. ; from George's and Brown's Banks. 
Dixon, Capt., and crew of schootier Flora Tcmx)le. Specimens of s]»)dcr-crab 

(Lithodcs), star-fish (ZfijOjijas/erio), and sponge (Chalina)', from Middle 

Bank. 
Douglass, Alherl. Specimens of squetcago and scuppaug; from Magnolia, 

Mass. 
Douglass, Thomas, Specimens of fishes (Meniicirrtis, Ccniropristis) and squid ; 

from Magnolia, Mass. 
Dower, Augustus, schooner Victor. Specimens of shells, worms, squids, crabs, 

&c. ; from the Grand Banks. 
litch, Captain, and creiv of schooner TIerhert M. liogers. Si)ecimens of corals 

(Celleporaria, Escharopsis, Alcyonium), ascidians, sea-corn, &c. ; from the 

Grand Banks. 
Fowles, Frank, schooner Young Sultan. Specimens of star-fishes (Astcrias, 

Ophiopholis, Ctenodiscus),v,'\nilkH, sea-anemones, &c. ; off Ca|icAnn, INIassa- 

chusetts. 
Fov)le8, J. Frank, steamer Geo. U. Bradley. Specimens of menhaden and men- 
haden food and spawn ; also crabs, shell, sponges, &c. ; from various 

I)laces along Long Island Sound. 
Geary, Capt. John, schooner Sunshine. Finger-sponge (Chalina), swordfish- 

sucker (Beinora) and ])arasites; from Ipswich Bay and coast of Maine. 
Getchell, Capt. John Q., and crero of schooner Otis F. Lord. Specimens of fishes 

(Triglops, Gadus, Sebastes, Feiromyzon, Murccnoidcs, Frionotus, Achirus), 

sponges (Folymastia, CliaUna), corals (Alcyonium), tuuicates, bryozoans, 

barnacles, crabs, &c. ; from George's Bank. 
Gibbs, Captain, and crew of schooner Occanus. Scarlet-cushion star-fish ; from 

off Cape Negro, N. S. 
Gill, Capt. Israel, schoonerEmma. Piece of nipple-sponge (i'o/?/ma.s/ia), from 

off Sankaty Head ; and back-bone of pig-shark, off Glovicester Harbor. 
Gilpatrick, Capt, Briggs, and crew of schooner Gatherer. Specimens of fishes 

(Synaphobranchus, Scopclus, Alcxndosaurus, Fctromyzon, Sebastes, Myxine), 

sea-feathers, sponges, star-fishes, &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 
Gourville, Capt, J., andcretv of schooner Eel)ccca Bartlctt. Specimens of fishes 

(Sebastes, Triglops, Murcvnoides, Fctromyzon), sponges (C/(«7/?ia), bryozoans, 

hydroids, «fcc. ; from George's Bank. 
Grccnlcaf, Capt. N., and crew of schooner Grace L. Fears. Specimens of fishes 

(Scopclus, Lycodes) and skate's egg ; from Green Bank. 
Guthrie, Captain, and creio of schooner Mary Brown. Lump-fish (Cyclopterus 

lumpus), weighijig ten pounds ; caught off' Thatcher's Island. 
Hall, Captain, and crew of schooner Clytie. Specimens of eels (Murcvnoides, 

Feiromyzon), star-fishes, mussels, holothurians, crabs, «&c. ; from George's 

Bank. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 129 

Washington^ I). C. — Continued. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Harrington, John. Spocimons of star-lishes, shells, shrimps, ancmonos, »&c. ; 

from George's Bank. 
Harrington, John, schooner Otis P. Lord. SpociuicnH of iislies, sponges, ane- 
mones, star-fishes, hydroids, shrimps, &c. ; from George's I5ank. 
Uodijdon, Capt. Thomas, and creiv of schooner Bessie W. Somes. Si)ccim( iis of 
iish (Chiasmodes nitjer, Sebasles, Simcnchcli/s, Macrurns), corals (Alci/onium, 
Aeanthogorgia, Kcratoisis, Anthothela), &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 
Jlodgdon, Captain, and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. .Si)e('iniciis of sea- 
feathers (/VHoa/^f^rr, Ilalticina), sponges ( roli/mastia, Phahellia), sea-worms, 
&c. ; from Grand Banks. 
Hooper, R. A., I>arlc Silas Fisk. A large mackerel (Scomhcr sp.); from off 

the coast of Chili. 
Hurlbiirt, Robert, schooner Star of the East. Larg(i mnssel-shell with sponge 

(Chalina); from George's Bank. 
Hurllnirt, Robert, schooner Barramita, Small octopus; from Brown's Bank. 
Hurlburt, Robert. Specimens of yellow perch, horned ])out, red fin, &c.; 

from off Yarmouth, N. S. 
Jacobs, Capf. iSol, schooner Sarah M. Jacobs. Specimens of fish (Scombercsox, 

Cijclopterus, Poronot'cs, Gasterostem, and Scomber) ; from oil' Cape Cod. 
Jacobs, ('apt. Sol, schooner Edward E. Webster. Specimens offish {Anxis,Po- 

ronottis), sponge, sword-fish ])arasites, «fec. ; I'rom off IMock Island. 
Jellow, John, schooner Frederick (Jerring. Perforated stone ; from soul li coast 

of Newfoundhmd. 
Jellow, John, schooner Henrij Friend. Part of a small anchor cover(^d willi 

bryozoans and hydroids ; from George's Bank. 
Jewett, Silas, schooner Phantom. Sjiecimens of star-fish {Ophioghjpha Sarsxi) 
and egg capsules (Si/cotj/pns) ; from Ipswncli Bay and I>rovidenco 
River. 
Johnson, Capt. George A., schooner Augusta JI. Johnson. Specimens of fish 
{Macrurus, CentroscAjlUum, Pctromyzon, Simenchehjs, Sebasies, Synaphobran- 
chus), corals (Flabellum), ascidiaiis, cral)s, star-fishes, &.c. ; from the (Jrand 
and Saint Pettn's Banks. 
Johnson, Capt. Levi, and crew of schooner Lizzie. Pug-nosed eels (Simenrheltjs) 

and star-fishes (Asterias) ; from Grand Banks. 
Johnson, Capt. Olio, and creiv of schooner Magic. Specimens of fish {Mnrw- 

noides, Brosmius), shells, hydroids, barnacles, &c. ; from George's B;iidc. 
Kill, Capt. IFUliam, and crew of schooner Eureka. Young nioon-lisli {Pare- 

phippus quadratus) ; from off Seguin, Me. 
Knight, Capt. T. II., schooner Ocean King. Specimens of star-fishes {Ophio- 
glupha, Hippasteria, Ctenodiscus, Asterias, Crossaster); conils (Alci/oninm), 
crabs, clams, ascidians, &c. ; from Grand Banks. 
Landry, Simeon. Rock with Chalina sponge; from offSankaty Head. 
Lawson, Capt. Charles, and crctv of schooner Herman Babson. SpecimoTis of 
crustaceans, molusca, ascidians, tunicates, star-fishes, &c. ; from the Grand 
Banks. 
Latcson, Captain, and crew of schooner Henri/ Slanbury. Stone covered with 

barnacles {Balanus); from George's Bank. 
Lee, Capt. Charles, schooner Orient. Cramp-fish {Torpedo occidentalis) ; from 

Ipswich ]5ay. 
Lorvrg, CajUain, and crew of schooner Aberdeen. Specimens of fish (Triglops), 
shells (Pecten, Modiola) star-fishes, finger-sponge, hydroids, «Src.; from 
George's Bank. 

S. Mis. 31 9 



130 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington^ D. C. — Continued. 

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Lurvey, William, Rock-gurnard (Prionotus carolinus) from Ipswich Bay. 

McAslcell, Capt. Neil, and crew of schooner Lizzie. Specimens of fish (Mac- 
rurus, Anarrhichas, Plati/soniatichthijs, Myxine, Scopelus, Centroscyllium 
Sehantes, Petromyzon), corals (Alcyonuim Primnoa), sponges {Polymastia, 
Phal-ellia, Cladorhiza), star-fishes, ascidiaus, &c., from the Grand Banks. 

McCurdy, Alex. Sample of double-edged throating-knife, made at Glou- 
cester, Mass., for use in fisheries at Alaska. 

McDonald, James, schooner E. B. Phillips. Specimen of spiny spider-crab 
{Lithodes maia) ; from Jeffrey's Ledge. 

McDonald, Capt. Jerome, and creiv of schooner Solar Wave. Specimens of fishes 
(Coryphcenoides, Myxine), devil-fish (Octopus), sponges (Cladorhiza), sea- 
feathers, &c.; from the Grand Banks. 

McDonongh, Mervey, schooner Finance. Young codfish (Gadus), star-fish 
{Astc.rias), and barnacles ; from off Cape Negro, N. S. 

McGraio, James. Sea-mouse {Aphrodite), from otf Eastern Point ; and mussel- 
shell covered witb eggs of gasteropod ; from George's Bank. 

Mcintosh, Captain, and crew of schooner Paul Percre. Iltilothuritms, shrimjis, 
sponges, &c.; from Jeffrey's Ledge. 

Mclntyre, Captain, and crew of schooner Paul Revere. Crinoids, parasites from 
codfish, and ovaries of shark ; from George's Bank. 

McKenzie, Capt. Andrew, and crew of schooner BeUeropho)i. Specimens of fish 
(Aspidophoroides, Sebastes), algaj, star -fish, crabs; from oft" Nova Scotia and 
Newfoundland. 

McKinnon, Capt. Daniel, and crew of schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Specimens of 
fishes {Simenchelys, Petromyzon, Haloporphyrus, Centroscypllium, Synapho- 
iranehus, Sco2)elus), corals {Flabellum, Acanthogorgia, Keratoisis), crabs, 
&c.; from the Grand Banks. 

McKinnon, Capt. John, and creiv of schooner Mystic. Sjtecimens of fishes 
(Poronotus, Sebastes, Muraenoides, Hippoglpssoides), shells, star-fishes {Aste- 
rias, Rippasleria,) sea-roses, corals, &c.; from the George's and Grand 
Banks. 

Mahlman, David. Sioocimes of fishes {Seriola and Menticirrus) ; fi'om off 
Easlem Point. 

Marble, Frank. Portion of codfish's backbone with excrescence. 

Markuson, Capt. Kurd, and crew of schooner Notice. Specimens of fishes {Mal- 
lotus, Apeltes, Sebastes, &c.), corals {Acanella, Alcyonium, Acanthogorgia), 
star-fishes, sea-feathers {Pennatula, Balticina), shells, &c. ; from the Grand 
Bank. 

Martin, Capt. Charles, and creiv of schooner Martha C. Specimens of fishes 
{MaUotus, Scombercsox, Clupea), star-fishes {Crassaster, Solaster), shells, sea- 
anemones, siJonges, «&c. ; from George's Bank. 

Martin, Capt. George H., and crctv of schooner Northern Eagle. Specimens of 
star-fishes {Hippasteria), fishes {Murcenoides, Scomber, lautogolabrus), cor- 
als {Primnoa), &c. ; from the Grand Bank, Ijiswich Bay, and the coast of 
Maine. 

Martin, Capt. S. J. Specimens of fishes {Lamna, Anarrhichas, Gadus, Tau- 
togolabrus, &c.) ; from Gloucester Harbor. 

Merchant, George, schooner Hattie B. West. Variety of mackerel; from the 
coast of Maine. 

Merchant, Philip. Branch of gold-banded nest coral {Keratoisis ornata) ; from 
Banquereau, 

Mercliant, Philip, schooner Everett Steele. Specimens of fishes {Petromyzon, 
Phycis, Chirostoma), shells, hydroids, crabs {Cancer,&c.) ; from the George's 
Banks. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 131 

Washington, I). C. — Continued. 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Merchant, Capt. Fliilip, and crew of nchooner Marion. Specimeus of fislies 
(Chimojra, Anarrhichas, Haloporphyrus, Synaphobranchus), sea-rose {Urti- 
cina), sponge {Poly7)ia8{ia), corals (Acanella), &c. ; from the Grand Bank. 

Merchant, Capt. rhUip, schooner Wachusett. Brisinga star-lisb, sbark's eggs, 
and uipple-spouge; off Bauqnereau. 

Mitchell, Manuel D., schooner Sultana. Specimens of lislies {Achirus, Xemich- 
ihys), star-fishes (Solaster, Astrophyton, Lophasteria), crabs {Cancer, Jlyas, 
Geryon), shrimps, holothnrians, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

Morris, Captain, and crew of schooner Frederick Gcrriny. Perforated stones 
and lamp shells ; from off Saint Peter's Bank. 

Morrissey, Capt. James D., and creic of schooner Plymouth Mock. Specimens 
of fishes {Myxine, Zoarces, Synaphobranchus, Simenchclys, I'etromyzon, Cen- 
troscyllium, Macriirus Fabricii, and M. Bairdii, Sebastes, Sco2)elus, Centro- 
scymnus), star-fishes {Ophiopholis, Ctenodiscus), sea-feathers {Fcnnatula, Fal- 
ticina), corals {Flabelhm, Acanthayoryia, Acanella, Alcyonium), marine 
worms, anemones, &c. ; from the Grand and Green Banks. 

Morrison, Capt. E. and crew of schooner Laura Nelson. Specimens of fishes 
(Scomberesox, Myxine), corals, sponges, sea-feathers, &c. ; from Grand and 
Artimon Banks. 

Murphy, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. Specimens of 
fishes Myxine, Macrurus, Scopelus, Mallotas), corals (Frimnoa, Acanella, 
Paragorgia, Eeratoisis, Acanthomastus), sponges (Polymastia, Fhakcllia, 
Cladorhiza), sea-feathers {Fennatula, Balticina), star-fishes, &c. ; from 
Saint Peter's, Grand, and Bauquereau Banks. 

Murphy, Captain, and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. Specimens of sponges 
(Polymastia, Cladorhiza), sea-rose ( Urticina), and sea-feathers ( Virgularia) ; 
from Saint Peter's Bank. 

Nason, Captain, schooner William A. Few. Specimens of fishes (Lophius, 
Myxine), star-fishes (Crossaster, Ophioj^hoUs), shells, bryozoous, &c. ; from 
George's Bank. 

Xeil, Captain, and crew of schooner Alfred Walen. Bnuch of tumorous snb- 
stance taken from stomach of codfish on George's Bank. 

Nelson, Capt. Anderson, schoon^^r Starry Flag. Large perforated rock; from 
George's Bank. 

Newbury, Captain, and crew of schooner Barracouta. Great scallop (Fecten 
ienuicostatus) with barnacles (Balanus) attached ; from George's Bank. 

O'Brien, Capt. Daniel, and crew of schooner Guy Cunningham. Specimens of 
fishes (Macrurus, Centroscyllium, Synaphobranchus, Myxine), sponges (Ck- 
dorhiza, PhakeUia), corals (Acanella, Acanthogorgia, Paragorgia, Paramu- 
ricea, Flahellum), sea-feathers (Balticina, Fennatula), star-fishes (Astertas, 
Ctenodiscus), &c. ; from Grand Banks. 

Olsen, Capt. George, and creiv of schooner Procter Brothers. Pilot-fish, sponges 
(Cladorhiza PhakeUia, Polymastia), sea-feathers, shells, anemones, &c. ; 
from the various banks off Newfoundland. 

Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Epes Turr. Specimens of fishes 
(Anarrhichas, Myxine,Scopelus, Centroscyllium, Synaphobranchns,Pelromyzon), 
corals (Paragorgia, Frimnoa, Alcyonium, Anthomnstus), simuges (PhakeUia, 
Cladorhiza), devil-fishes, anemones, crinoids, &c. ; from the Grand and 
Saint Peter's Banks. 
Osier, Capt. David A., schooner Breeze. Large sea-lamprey (Fclromyzon 
7narinus); from Ipswich Bay. 

Fearce, Fred. Base of coral (Pnm?)oa), Avith lamp shells and brittle star- 
fish ; from Banquereau. 



132 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Washington, D. G. — Contiuued. 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Continued. 

Perrel, William H., schooner Joseph O. Specimens of sponges, star-fishes, 
mussels, &c. ; from George's and Brown's Banks. 

Petlingell 4" Cunningham, Gloucester. Whale's rib bone, 

Poland, Daniel. Three models of fishing- vessels. 

Badcliffe, Captain, Young thresher shark (^/opms vm/jjcs) ; from off Eastern 
Point. 

Piggs, Capt. Joshua, schooner Fltz J. Bahson. Specimens of frigate mackerel 
{Auxis) ; from off Block Island. 

Boice, John. Calcareous rock ; from George's Bank. 

By an, Capt. J., and crerv of schooner David A. Story. Specimens of fishes 
(Myxine, Macrurus, SynapUobranchus, Petromyzon, Centroscyllium, Scopehis), 
sponges (Ralichondria, Phakellia), corals {Alcyonium, Paragorgia), hydroids, 
sea-roses, ascidians, shells, sea-mice, &c. ; from the Grand Bank. 

Schooner Adelia Hartwell, captain and crew of . Two large honey comb rocks; 
from George's Bank. 

Schooner Enola C, captain and crew of. Horse mussels (Modiola) yvitli barna- 
cles (Balamts) attached ; from George's Bank. 

Scliooner Josephine, of Bockport, captain and cr etc. Ling or mutton -fish; from 
off Chatham, Mass. 

Schooner Mary E. Daniels, captain and crew of. Spiny lump-fish (Eumicrotremus 
spinosus), bryozan »coral {Escharopsis rosacea) and eggs of gasteroi)od; 
from the Grand Banks. 

Schooner Northern Star, captain and crew of. Large monk -fish (Lophius ameri- 
canus) ; from Western Bank. 

Schooner William, Parsons, 2f7. Specimen of bala^ia ; from the Grand Banks. 

Scott, George W., schooner Chjtie. Specimen of fishes {Scomher, Gadue, Petro- 
myzon), crabs (Hyas), shells, hydroids, i&c. ; from Brown's Bank. 

Skarin, Herman. Barnacles (Balanus) and chalina sponge ; from Brown's 
Bank. 

Smith, Capt. Joseph, schooner Wm. M. Gaffney. Sea-horse {Hippocampus); 
from off' Block Island. 

Smith, Capt. Bohert, schooner Volunteer. Specimen of mackerel ; from off 
Seguin, Maine. 

Spurr, Capt. Alfred, and crew of schooner John F. Wonson. Specimens of sea 
feathers, corals, tunicates, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

Story, Charles O. Three building models of fishing-vessels. 

Tarr, Capt. Zehulon, and crew of schooner Mary Fernold. Mackerel-food ( Cope- 
poda) and small fish from mackerel stomachs ; from Prince Edward's Island. 

Thompson, Capt. Thomas, and creic of schooner Lizzie K. Clark. Crustaceans, 
mackerel-midges, and fishes ; from off the coasts of Maine and Prince 
Edward's Island. 

Wadsworth, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Conductor. Specimens of fishes 
(Centroscyllium, Haloporphyrns, Synaphobranchus), coral (Alcyonium), and 
sea feathers (Pennatula and Balticina) ; from George's Banks. 

Wells, Captain, and crew of schooner H. A. Duncan. Specimens of fishes, star- 
fishes, crabs, sponges, &c. ; from Brown's Bank and off Nova Scotia. 

Wheeler, Captain, schooner Defiance. Sea-lamprey (Petromyzon) from off" 
Thatcher's Island, and moon fish (Parephippus) from Ipswich Bay. 

White, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Martha and Susan. Specimens of 
fishes (Chirostoma, Petromyzon), crabs (Hyas), mussels (Modiola), sea- 
urchins, &c. ; from Brown's and George's Banks. 
Whiiton, Capt. Otven A., and crew of schooner Wm. H. Oakes. Specimens of 
fishes (Synaphobranchus, Myxine), corals (Eeratoisis, Anthomastus, Para- 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF TUE SECRETARY. 133 

Washington, B. C. — Coutiuued. 
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries — Coutinuecl. 

gorgia, Alcyonium), squid (ArchitciitJus), sponges {Polymastia, Fhakellia), 
anemones, criuoids, »S:c. ; from tlio Grand Banks. 

Williams, Capt. B. A., and crew of schooner Centennial. Specimens of fishes 
{Lijcodes, Mallotus), star-fishes {Solaster, Asterias) tunicates, sea-cucum- 
bers, shells, &e. ; from the Grand Bank. 

Wilson, Mr. Si>ecimeus of fishes (Solaster, Uippasleria) ; from off Cape Breton 
Island. 

Wonson, Ercrett. Laughing gull (Larus atriciUa) ; from Brace's Cove, Glou- 
cester. 

Wonson, Fletcher. Calcareous rocks, &c. ; from George's Bank. 

Wonson, John F, Specimens American solo (ztchirus) and calcareous rock, 
from the South Channel ; and shells and barnacles from hull of bark »San- 
tee (Africa). 

Wright, Capt. Frank, and crtiv of schooner Wacliusett. Specimens of fishes 
(Myxine), scollops, whelks, sponges, corals {Escharopsis, Primnoa), sea- 
feathers, &c. ; from the Grand Banks. 

Xavy Deiiartment : 
Bureau of Steam Fngi.iicerhig. (See uuder name of Passed Assistant 

Engineer II. G. Becliwith.) 
United States N'ary. (See under names of Commodore Earl English^ 
Capt. R. Chandler, Commanders Lester A. Beardslec, B. B. Evans, 
and Ensign W. L. Wood.) 
Treasury Bepartmcnt : 

United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, Capt. G. P. Patterson, 

Superintendent. (See under W. H. Ball.) 
United States Bevenue Marine. (See under Br. Bohert White.) 
War Bepartment : 
Signal Service. (See under names of Capt. H. W. Uou-gate and Pn'- 

vate E. W. Nelson.) 
Surgeon-GencraVs Office. (See under tlie names of Brs. J. JSf. K. Cor- 
son, Elliott Coues, B. E. IJghthurne, George 11. Moran, C. A. Seicall, 
and H. W. Taylor.) 
Surveys ivest of the one hundredth meridian {Capt. G. M. Wheeler in 

charge). Ten boxes invertebrate fossils. 
United States Army. (See under tbe names of General M. C. Meigs, 
Lieut. Col. Richard J. Bodge, Captains Charles Bendire, E. Craw- 
ford, Levi CromiceJl, James Gilliss, Lieuts. A. W. Greely, L. B. 
Green, H. Romeyn, and J. B. Siceitzer.) 
Wasson, John, United States Surveyor -General, Arizona. Specimens of 

minerals from various mining claims in Arizona. 
Weeden, W. C. Three living' blacksnakes {Bascanion constrictor), and 

skin of sbrike; from Washington, D. C. 
Weeks, Charles. Arrow-heads; from Maryland. 
West, John. Specimens of stone implements; from Virginia. 
West, William. Indian stone implements; from Virginia. 
Westcott, 0. S. Jaw of fresh-water drum {Raploidonotus grunniens); 
from Wisconsin. 



134 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Whittali-cr, E. W. Specimen of mineral. 

White, Dr. C. A. A collection of fossils; from various localities. 

White, n. G. Skin of titmouse [Parus atricapillus) ; from Taunton, 

Mass. 
White, Br. Robert, United States Revenue Marine. Six boxes of general 

natural history specimens ; from Alaska, 
White, Samuel {through Dr. A. P. L. Pease). Specimens of minerals; 

from Ohio. 
White, Thomas J. Flint-lock jnstol found at Harper's Ferry, W. Va. 
Whitney, J. L. Copper ax and shell implement ; from Ohio (purchased). 
Wiggins, F. B. Three living possums ; from Virginia, 
Wiggins, John B. Three pieces of soapstone; from Virginia. 
Wilcox, W. A, One hundred and thirty i)ackages of fishing apparatus 

and samples of various preparations of fish. 
Wilder, B. G. Living Menohranchus ; from Kew York, 
Wilkin, Dr. J. F. Tank of fishes ; from Virginia. 
Williams, Captain {through W. H. Dall). Specimen of seal {Histriophoca 

equcstris); from Bering Sea. 
Willianis, Rev. G. F. Pottery figure (lent for casting). 
Williams, J. G. Specimens of minerals ; from Pennsylvania. 
Wilmof, Samuel. Thi;ee specimens of salmon ; from Canada. 
Wilson, G. B. Box of birds' eggs ', from Texas. 
Wilson, Leivis {through Geo. A. Boardman). Specimen of bluefish; from 

Maine. 
Winsloiv, Ensign Francis, Assistant United States Coast and Geodetic 

Survey. Bottle of alcoholic fishes ; from the Chesapeake Bay. 
Woltz, George. Living water-snake and five Indian arrow-heads ; from 

Virginia. 
Wood, J. W. Bottle of reptiles ; from Wisconsin. 
Woods, James. Indian drilled implement, with original drill; from IS'ew 

York (lent for casting). 
Woods, 31. L., Ensign U. S. N. Box of alcoholic specimens of reptiles; 

from Texas, 
Woodman, Dr. H. T. Four boxes of Indian relics ; from Iowa. 
Wooster, A. F. Specimens of birds' eggs, minerals, and mosses. 
Wooton, J. B. Specimens of insects. 
Worth, S. G. Specimens of fish; from North Carolina. 
Wright, Abel A. Water-beetle ; from Georgia. 
Wright, Isaac U. Box of fish-hatching apparatus. 
Wyeth, John, & Brother, Philadelphia. Bottle of fluid extract of sea- 

wryack. 
Zircle, Reuben. Specimens of stalagmitic formations; from New Market 

Cave, Va. 
Zug, J. E. Si^ecimen of granite. 

A number of specimens of fishes, seeds, plants, minerals, Indian relics, 
birds, &c., have also been presented by unknown donors. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 135 

The following articles, which have been added to the collections of 
the National Museum, were presented to the United States Commis- 
sion of Fish and Fisheries at the International Fisheries Exhibition, 
Berlin, 1880: 

Denmark: 

Banish Commission. Two models of Danish fishing- vessels, a model 
of an eel-weir, and an eel-spear. 

Germany: 

Berlin Aquarium, Br. Hermes. A number of fishes from the Berlin 
Aquarium. 

Borne, Max von dem. Model of a fish-pond, a full size model of a 
sluice-way and gate for fish-pond; also, some fish-hatching ap- 
paratus. 

Leipsie, Museum filr Mill-erJainde. A small collection of ethnologi- 
cal objects, principally African. 

Oterendorp & Co., Nordernei. Model of a German fishing-vessel. 

Peterson, Kiino; Flenshurg. Model of a German trawling- vessel. 

Schuster, Carl. Transportation can for fish. 

Holland : 

Butch Commission ; A. E. Maas, commissioner. A model of a life- 
saving boat. 
'■'■ Neptumis^'' Company, Nieuwe Biep. Model of a peculiar Dutch 
fishing-boat. 

Italy : 

Balian Commission. A large series of canned fish. 

Florence Natural History Museum, Prof. Enrico GiglioU. A small 

collection of Italian water-birds, and a series of Italian fishes in 

alcohol. 
Genoa Natural History Museum, Br. Becio Vinciguerra. A collection 

of Italian fishes in alcohol. 

Norway : 

Norivegian Commission. Models of five different Norwegian fishing 
vessels and boats. A model of a fisher-house at the Lofoten 
Islands. A collection of fishing gear, including lines, hooks, and 
trawl; besides a set of cooper's tools, used in making fish-barrels. 
Also a large series of samples of canned and dried fish. 
Stavanger Preserving Company, Stavanger. A series of samples of 
canned fish. 

E-ussiA: 

Bussian Commission. Specimen of fish isinglass, and a large and 
finely -illustrated work on the inland fisheries of Kussia. 

Sweden : 

Swedish Commission. A series of samples of canned and dried fish. 



136 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOKT OF THE SECEETARY. 



EEPOET OF EXPLOEATIONS IN NEW MEXICO AND ARI- 
ZONA, BY JAMES STEVENSON. 

Professor S. F. Baird : 

Deaii Sir: I have the honor to present you herewith a brief state- 
ment of the explorations made by the party under my charge during 
last summer; giving, for the present, only an outline of the country 
traversed and the aggregate results accomplished. 

The party arrived at Santa Fe, New Mexico, about the first of Sep- 
tember last, where a few days were spent in arranging details for the 
prosecution of the field work. 

From Santa Fe the j)arty traveled direct to the pueblo of Taos, by 
way of the Rio Grande. At Taos about a week was spent in making 
collections; many sketches were made, representing picture-writing on 
the interior of the dwellings and estufas. Quite a number of photo- 
graphic illustrations were made, showing the entire outlines of the vil- 
lage, including many details of its structure, sufficiently to construct a 
model. Portraits were also taken of the principal individuals of the 
j)ueblo. 

From Taos the party proceeded southward to the j)ueblo of San Juan. 
From San Juan to Santa Clara, from Santa Clara to San Ildefouso, 
from there to Nambe, thence back to Santa Fe. A few days more were 
sjjent at the latter place in obtaining supplies for future work. We 
again proceeded, southward to the pueblo of Cochiti, which is situated 
on the west bank of the Rio Grande, about 30 miles from Santa Fe. 
The party spent several days at this place making collections, photo- 
graphic and other illustrations. From Cochiti we traveled westward 
about 30 miles to the pueblo of Jemez, situated near the sources of the 
Rio Jemez. At this village some days were spent in making collec- 
tions, photographs, &c. From Jemez we followed up the Rio Jemez to 
the Hot Springs, near which we found several large ruins, both Indian 
and Spanish. Many views were made of the ruins, as well as a collec- 
tion of pottery fragments, stone implements, &c. From Jemez our 
course was south, following the Jemez River. About ten miles below 
Jemez we found the pueblo of Silla, or Sia; here, too, a collection was 
made, and some photographs. Continuing down the river some miles, 
we reached the pueblo of Sduta Ana. This pueblo we found to be much 
larger than any we had visited, except, peihaps, Taos. Our investiga- 
tions at this jmeblo were as full and complete as those made at the 
other ijueblos. From Santa Ana we continued south, crossing the 
Rio Grande, to the pueblo of Sandia. At this village a full collection 
was made and an ample number of photographic illustrations to con- 
vey the fullest impression of the pueblo. From Sandia we moved on 
to Santo Domingo. This pueblo is located on the east bank of the Rio 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 137 

Grande, aud between that aud tlie Hue of the Atchison, Topeka 
and Santa Fe Ivailroad. AVe also macje a comi)lete coHeetion of pot- 
tery, &c., at this point. From here we continued our joiuiiey up tlie 
Eio Grande to the pueblo of San Felipe. Here we also spent several 
days making illustrations aud collections. We theu returned to Santa Fe, 
from where a special tri}) was made, via the railway, to the pueblo of 
Isleta. At each of the i)ueblos a suflicient time was taken to make 
investigations of all kinds in relation to the inhabitants, and to make a 
full typical collection of all their utensils, fabrics, &c., illustrating their 
industries, &c. 

There are very many details and specimens of special interest which 
can only be presented after an examination of the sketches, photo- 
graphs, aud specimens. 

The object of greatest interest to the jjarty was the discovery of a 
class of ruins occupying a large area of country about 45 miles west of 
Santa Fe, and lying around the base of the Jemez Mountains, and be- 
tween these mountains and the Fiio Grande. These ruins extend in a 
semicircular manner from near Ildefonso around to the sources of the 
Eio Jemez, and are in dei)th from 3 to 15 miles. The houses are ex- 
cavated in the faces of i^erpendicular bluffs composed of a soft volcanic 
tufa, very much resembling pumice stone ; each blulf is shaped in its 
outlines somewhat like a horseshoe, the whole being situated in .series, 
facing the river, and receding back from it, one above the other, toward 
the Jemez Mountains. The accompanying i^encil sketches, by Mr. F. 
G. Galbraith, and one of the photographs will convey an impression of 
theii" appearance. From these ruins a large quantity of stone imi)le- 
ments were collected. 

One other locality which came within view of the party, but which 
was not examined for want of time, will prove of much interest. The 
locality referred to is on either side of the Upper Jemez liiver, which 
is bordered by numerous mesas from four to fifteen hundred feet in 
height, and much broken or cut up by cailons which have in many 
instances separated the mesas from each other. Located on the sum- 
mits of these mesas we found twenty -seven villages in ruins, which we 
could only see with our glasses from the summit of a high mountain. 
The mesas on which these ruins are situated are so high and difficult 
of access that many days would be required to explore a single oue 
of them. 

In summing up the results of the work for the season, I can do no 
more than to give a list of the collections and illustrations made. 

Fliotograj)lis. — Twenty-two 11 x 14 views representing the pueblos of 
Taos, San Juan, Santa Clara, San Ildefonso, Pojanquiti, Tesuque, 
Nambe, Cochiti, Jemez, Jemez Ruins, Silla or Zia, Santa Ana, Saudia, 
Isleta, Santo Domingo, San Felipe, and Picoris. Twenty -oue 8x10 
portraits, embracing the governors and other principal persons of the 
Pueblo tribes visited. 



138 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



1 



Specimens. — Two thousand eight himdred specimens, embracing pot- 
tery, pestles, mortars, baking stones, grinders, polishing stones, drills, 
axes, spears, arrow-heads, scrapers, adzes, &c. Fabrics, such as blank- 
ets, waistlets, anklets, leggins, dresses, head-dresses, &c. Also, toys, 
bird- traps, spindle-whorls, gaming-stones, cart and plow, and many other 
objects too numerous to specify. 

Hoping this brief statement may serve your purposes for the time 
being, 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Ja]mes Stevenson. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



139 



EECEIPTS AND DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS. 

[These tables show ouly •what has beeu recorded or entered iu the detailed catalogues, 
constituting but a small proportion of the whole.] 

Table showing the number of entries in the record-boolcs of the United States 
]!^ational Museum at the close of the years 1879 and 1880, respectively. 





Class. 


1879. 


1880. 


Mammals 


13, 144 

79, 093 

10, 407 

23, 561 

16, 306 

18, 049 

2, 324 

100 

33, 1G9 

3,230 

8, 075 

20, 450 

39, 017 


13, 264 


Birds 


81, 329 


Reptiles aud amphibians 


10,517 


Fishes 


26, 947 


Skeletons and skulls .. . ... 


16, 367 


Esjo-s 


18, 189 


Crustaceans 


2,514 


Annelids . .. ... . 


100 


MoUusks 


33, 169 


Radiates 


3,345 


Invertebrate fossils 


9,750 


IVIiuerals -^ 


20, 450 


Ethnological specimens. . -^ -- -- 


45, 570 








Total 


266, 925 


281,511 








Increase for 1880 




14, 586 









Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 

1880. 



Class. 



Skeletons aaid skulls 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Nests and eggs of birds 

Insects .- 

Crustaceans 

Shells 

Radiates 

Other marine invertebrates 
Plants and packages of 

seeds 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks 

Ethnological specimens ... 
Diafcomaceous earths 

(packages) 

Total 



Total to end of 

1879. 



Species. 



Speci- 



586 
2, 167 

27, 940 
2, 566 
6,443 
8, 234 
4,538 
1,097 

90, 702 

593 

1,907 

30, 442 
4 391 

10, 006 
6,849 

1, 174 



1,924 

4,822 
42, 318 

4,158 

9, 976 
20, 511 
10,091 

2, 689 

197, 828 

793 

5, 240 

52, 861 

10, 518 

21,407 

5,494 

1,928 



196,635 392,558 



Distribution dur- 
ing 1860. 



Sijecies. 



2 

2 

185 

24 

4,460 

162 

151 



20 



7,351 

54 

26 

244 

35 



12, 718 



Speci- 
mens. 



21 
3 

199 

33 

4, 663 

403 

240 



45 



8,194 

169 

26 

330 

289 

82 



14, 697 



Total to end of 

1880. 



Species. 



588 
2, 169 

28, 125 
2, 590 

10, 903 
8, 396 
4,689 
1,097 

90, 722 

593 

9, 258 

30, 496 
4,417 

10, 250 
3, 884 

1, 176 



Speci- 
mens. 



1,945 

4, 825 
42,517 

4,191 
14, 639 
20, 914 
10, 331 

2, 689 

197, 873 

793 

13, 434 

53, 030 

10, 544 

21,737 

5,783 

2, 010 



209,353 407,255 



140 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 



THE FIRST DECADE OF THE UXITED STATES FISH COM- 
MISSIOj^ : ITS PLAN OF WOEK AND ACCOMPLISHED EE- 
SULTS, SCIENTIFIC AND ECONOMICAL. 



By G. Browx Goode.* 



There are nine departments of the government devoted, in part or 
wholly, to researches in pure and applied science — the Geological Sur- 
A^ey; the Coast and Geodetic Survey; the Naval Observatory; the 
National Museum; the Department of Agriculture; the Entomological 
Commission; the Tenth Census, with its special agencies for the study 
of the natural resources of the country; the Smithsonian Bureau of Eth- 
nology, and the Commission of Fish and Fisheries. The Smithsonian 
Institution, established ujion an independent foundation, should also be 
mentioned, as well as the Medical Museum of the Armj-, and the various 
laboratories under the control of the Army and Navy Departments. 

The Geological Survey is not now carrying on any of the schemes of 
zoological and botanical investigation engaged in by its predecessors. 

The work of the Entomological Commission and that of the census, 
though of extreme importance, are limited in scope and dui-ation, while 
that of the Agricultm-al Department is necessarily, for the most part, 
economical. 

The work of the National Museum is chiefly confined to tlie study of 
collections made by government surveys or individual collectors and sent 
in to be reported upon. 

The work of the Fish Commission, in one of its aspects, may perhaps 
be regarded as the most prominent of the present efforts of the govern- 
ment in aid of aggressive biological research. 

On the 9th of February, 1871, Congress passed a joint resolution which 
authorized the appointment of a Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries. 
The duties of the Commissioner were thus defined : " To prosecute investi- 
gations on the subject (of the diminution of valuable fishes) with the view 
of ascertaining whether any and what diminution in the number of the 
food-fishes of the coast and the lakes of the United States has taken 
place ; and, if so, to what causes the same is due; and also whether any 
and what protective, prohibitory or precautionary measures should be 
adopted in the premises, and to report upon the same to Congress." 

The resolution establishing the office of Commissioner of Fisheries 
required that the person to be appointed should be a civil officer of the 
government, of proved scientific and practical acquaintance with the 

' [From the Peoceedixgs of the Amekican Association fok the Advaxceiiext of Science, Vol. 
sxix, Boston Meeting, August, 1880.] • 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 141 

fishes of the coast, to serve without additional salary. The choice Mas 
thus practically limited to a single man for whom, in fact, the office had 
been created. Professor Baird, at that time Assistant Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, was appointed and entered at once upon his 
duties. 

The summer of 1880 marks the tenth season of active work since its 
inception in 1871. The Fish Commission now fills a place ten-fold more 
extensive and useful than at first. The present essay aims to show, in 
a general way, what it has done, is doing, and expects to do — its pur- 
poses, its methods, its results. 

The work is naturally divided into three sections: 

1. The systematic investigation of the waters of the United States 
and the biological and physical problems which they present. The sci- 
entific studies of the Commission are based upon a liberal and i)liilo- 
sophical interpretation of the law. In making his original plans tlie 
Commissioner insisted that to study only the food-fishes would be of 
little importance, and that useful conclusions must needs rest ui>on a 
broad foundation of investigations purely scientific in character. The 
life history of species of economic value should be understood from be- 
ginning to end, but no less requisite is it to know the histories of the 
animals and plants upon which they feed or upon which their food is 
nourished; the histories of their enemies and friends, and the friends 
and foes of their enemies and friends, as well as the currents, tem[)era- 
tures, and other physical phenomena of the waters in relation to migra- 
tion, reproduction, and growth. A necessary accompaniment to this 
division is the amassing of material for research to be stored in the E'a- 
tioual and other museums for future use. 

2. The investigation of the methods of fisheries, past and present, 
and the statistics of production and commerce of fishery products. Man 
being one of the chief destroyers of fish, his influence ui^on their abun- 
dance must be studied. Fishery methods and appaiatus must be exam- 
ined and compared with those of other lands, that the use of those which 
threaten the destruction of useful fishes may be discouraged, and that 
those which are ineificient may be replaced by others more serviceable. 
Statistics of industry and trade must be secured for the use of Congress 
in making treaties or imposing tariffs, to show to producjers the best 
markets, and to consumers where and with what their needs may be 
supplied. 

3. The introduction and multiplication of useful food-fishes through- 
out the country, especially in waters under the jurisdiction of the gen- 
eral government, or those common to several States, none of which 
might feel willing to make expenditures for the benefit of the others. 
This work, which was not contemplated when the Commission was 
established, was first undertaken at the instance of the American Fish 
Cultural Association, whose representatives induced Congress to make 
a special appropriation for the purpose. This appropriation has since 



142 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

been renewed every year on a more bountiful scale, and the i)roj)agation 
of fish is at present by far the most extensive branch of the work of the 
Commission, both in respect to number of men employed and quantity 
of money expended. 

Although activity in this direction may be regarded in the light of 
applied rather than jiure scientific work, it is particularly important to 
the biologist, since it affords opportunities for investigating many new 
problems in physiology and embryology. 

The origin of the Commission, its purposes, and methods of organiza- 
tion having been described, it now remains to review the accomplished 
results of its work. In many departments, especially that of direct 
research, most ef&cient services have been rendered by volunteers; in 
fact, a large share of what has been accomplished in biological and 
physical exploration is the result of unijaid labor on the part of some of 
the most skillful American specialists. Although it would be interest- 
ing to review the peculiar features of the work of each investigator, the 
limits of this paper will not allc^ even a mention of them all by name. 

Since the important fisheries center in New England, the coast of 
this district has been the seat of the most active operations in marine 
research. For ten years the Commissioner, with a party of specialists, 
has devoted the summer season to work at the shore at various stations 
along the coast, from Connecticut to Nova Scotia. 

A suitable place having been selected, a temporary laboratory is fitted 
up with the necessary appliances for collection and study. In this are 
placed from ten to twenty tables, each occupied by an investigator, 
either an officer of the Commission or a volunteer. From 1878 to 1879 
important aid was rendered by the Secretary of the Navy, who detailed 
for this service a steamer to be used in dredging and trawling, and this 
year the steamer built expressly for the Commission is employed in the 
same manner.* 

The regular routine of operations at a summer station includes all the 
various forms of activity known to naturalists — collecting along the 
shore, seining upon the beaches,t setting traps for animals not otherwise 
to be obtained, and scraping with dredge and trawl the bottom of the 
sea at depths as great as can be reached by a steamer in a trip of three 

*Tlie number of dredgiug aud trawliug stations on record is as follows: 

1871. Wood's Holl 345 

1872. Eastport, 200 by hand, 35 by steamer *^35 

1873. Portland 149 

1874. Noank 223 

1875. Wood's Holl 169 

1877. Salem 

Halitax 378 

1878. Gloucester 

1879. Provincetown 

Totol 1,500 

tTlie number of seine hauls is about GOO. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 143 

day.s. Ill the laboratory are carried on tlie usual structural aud system- 
atic studies; the preparation of museum specimens and of reports. 
Since the organization of the Commission the deep-sea ^vorlv aud the 
investigation of invertebrate animals has been under the charge of Pro- 
fessor Verrill, who had for manj^ years before the Commission was 
established been studying independently the invertebrate fauna of Xew 
England. 

In addition to what has been done at the summer station, more or less 
exhaustive investigations have been carried on by smaller parties on 
many parts of the coast and interior waters. The fauna of the Grand 
Banks and other off-shore fishing grounds has been partly explored. 
In 1872, 1873, and 1874 dredging was carried on from the Coast Survey 
steamer Baclie by Professor Packard and Mr. Cooke, Professor Smith, 
Mr. Harger, and Mr. Rathbun. In 1879 Mr. H. L. Osborne spent three 
months in a cod-schooner collecting material on the Grand Banks, and 
Mr. N. P. Scudder as long a time on the halibut grounds of Davis' 
Straits. 

A most remarkable series of contributions has been received fiom 
the fishermen of Cape Ann. When the Fish Commission had its head- 
quarters at Gloucester in 1878 a general interest in the zoological work 
si)raug up among the crews of the fishing vessels, and since that time 
they have been vying with each other in efiorts to fiud new animals. 
Their activity has been stimulated by the pubhcation of lists of their 
donations in the local papers, and the number of separate lots of speci- 
mens received to the present time exceeds eight hundred. Many of 
these lots are large, consisting of collecting-tanks full of alcoholic speci- 
mens. At least thirty fishing vessels now carry collecting-tanks on 
every trip, and many of the fishermen, with characteristic superstition, 
have the idea that it insures good luck to have a tank on board, and 
will not go to sea without one. The number of specimens acquired in 
this manner is at least fifty or sixty thousand, most of them belonging 
to species unattainable. Each halibut vessel sets, twice daily, lines 
from ten to fourteen miles in length, with hooks upon tliem six feet apart, 
in water twelve hundred to eighteen hundred feet in depth; and the 
quantity of living forms brought up in this manner, and which had never 
hitherto been saved, is very astonishing. Over thirty species of fishes 
have thus been added to the fauna of Xorth America, and Professor 
Verrill informs me that the number of new and extralimital forms thus 
placed upon the list of invertebrates cannot be less than fifty. 

A permanent collector, Mr. Vinal ]^. Edwards, has been employed at 
Wood's Holl and vicinity since 1871, and many remarkable forms have 
also been discovered by him. 

No dredging has yet been attempted by the Commission south of Long 
Island, though much has been done in shore work, especially among the 
fishes, by special agents aud friends of the Commission, and by parties 
stationed here and there in the work of fish-culture. Mr. E. G. Black- 



144 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



ford, of Fultou Market, oSTew York, by carefally watching the market 
slabs, has added at least ten species of fishes to the fauna of the United 
States. Mr. F. Mather is studying the fish of Long Island and the 
sound. Dr. Yarrow, Mr. Earll, and others, have collected from Cape 
May to Key West. The Gulf States' coast was exr^lored last winter 
by a party conducted by Mr. Silas Stearns, who spent nine mouths in 
studying the subject relative to food and the census. The entire Pacific 
coast has been scoured by Professor Jordan for the Commission and 
the census, and the ichthyology of that region has been enriched by 
the discovery of sixty species new to the fauna, forty of them being- 
new to science. A similar investigation on the Great Lakes has been 
carried over a period of several years by Mr. Milner and Mr. Knmlien. 
The ichthyology of the rivers of the country luis received much attention 
from the many experts employed by the Commission in fishcultural work. 

In addition to these local studies may be mentioned the general explo- 
rations, such as are now being carried on for the oyster, by Mr. Ernest 
Ingersoll and Mr. John P. Ryder, for the shad by Colonel McDonald, for 
the smelt and the Atlantic salmon by Mr. C. G. Atkins, and the Quinnat 
salmon by Mr. Livingston Stone, 

A i)artial indication of what has been accomplished may be found in 
the number of species added to the various faunal lists. Take, for in- 
stance, the cephalopod mollusks of New England. In Professor Ver- 
rill's recently published monographs, twenty species are mentioned, thir- 
teen of which are new to science. Ten years ago only three were known. 

I am indebted to Professor Yerrill for the following estimate of the 
number of species added within the past ten years to the fauna of oSTew 
England, mainly by the agency of the Commission : 



Crustacea 

Pycnogonida .. 

Annelida 

Vermes 

Molliisca 

Echinodermata 

Authozoa 

Tunicata 

Polyzoa 

Bracbiopoda . . . 

Sponges 

Acalepliie 



Formerly 
known. 



105 

5 

67 

39 

317 
47 
20 
26 
56 
5 
10 

102 



800 



Additions. 


Now known. 


193 


298 


10 


15 


238 


305 


100 


139 


109 


426 


41 


88 


35 


55 


25 


51 


91 


147 





5 


80 


90 


78 


180 


1,000 


1,800 



It is but just to say that many of these species were obtained by Pro- 
fessor Yerrill in the course of his independent explorations in Maine 
and Connectictit previous to 1871.* 

* A few days after the reading of this papier a new fauna was discovered about one 
hundred miles southeast of Newport, and several hundred numbers might now be 
added to this enumeration. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 145 

A similar estimate for the fishes indicates the discovery of at least 
one hundred species on the eastern Atlantic coast within ten years; half 
of these are new to science. Forty species have been added to the 
fauna north of Cape Cod ; sixteen of these are new and have been found 
within three years ; seventeen have been described as new from the Gulf 
of Mexico 5 sixty, and more, have been added upon the west coast. The 
results of the summers' campaigns are worked in winter by the special- 
ists of the National Museum, and under the direction of Professor Ver- 
rill, in New Haven. 

One of the important features of the work is the preparation of life 
histories of the useful marine animals of the country, and great quanti- 
ties of material have been accumulated relating to almost every species. 
A portion of this has been published; more or less complete biographical 
monographs having been printed on the bluetish, the scuj), the menhaden, 
the salmon, and the whitefish, and others are nearly ready. 

Another monograph which may be referred to in this connection is 
that of Mr. Starbuck on the whale fishery, giving its history from the 
earliest settlement of North America. 

The temperature of the water in its relation to the movements of fish 
has from the first received special attention. Observations are made 
regularly during the summer work, and at the various hatching sta- 
tions. At the instance of the Commissioner, an extensive series of 
observations have for several years been made under the direction of 
the Chief Signal Ofiicer of the Army, at light-houses, light-ships, life- 
saving and signal stations, carefully chosen, along the whole coast. 
This year thirty or more fishing schooners and steamers are carrying 
thermometers to record temperatures upon the fishing grounds, a jour- 
nal of the movements of the fish being kept at the same time. One 
practical result of the study of these observations has been the demon- 
stration of the cause of the failure of the menhaden fisheries on the 
coast of Maine in 1871) — a failure on account of which nearly 2,000 per- 
sons were thrown out of employment. 

Another important series of investigations carried on by Commander 
Beardslee, of the Navy, shows the error of the ordinary manner of 
using the Casella Miller deep-sea thermometer; still another series 
made by Dr. Kidder, of the Navy, and to be carried out in future, had 
for its object the determination of the temperature of the blood of 
marine animals. 

Observations have also been made by Mr. Milner upon the influence 
of a change from sea water into fresh water, and fi'om fresh water into 
sea water, upon the young of different fishes. 

Mr. H. J. Rice carried on a series of studies upon the effect of cold in 
retarding the development of incubating fish eggs. 

A series of analyses has been made by Professor Atwater to deter- 
mine the chemical composition and nutritive value of fish as compared 
with other articles of food. This investigation is still in i^rogress. 
S. Mis. 31 10 



» 
146 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 

In connection with the work of fish culture, much attention has been 
paid to embryology. The breeding times and habits of nearly all of 
our fishes have been studied, and their relations to water temperatures. 
The embryological history of a number of species, such as the cod, shad, 
alewife, salmon, smelt, Spanish mackerel, striped bass, white perch, and 
the oyster, have been obtained, under the auspices of the Commission, 
by Messrs. Brooks, Eyder, Scha^fler, Eice, and others. 

The introduction of new species, in water in which they were pre- 
viously unknown, is of special interest to the student of geographical 
distribution. Through the agency of the Commission the German carj) 
has already been placed in nearly every State and Territory, although 
the work of distribution has only just begun, and the tench {Tinea vul- 
garis) and the golden orfe {Idus melanotus) have been acclimated ; the 
shad has been successfully planted in the Mississippi Yalley and on the 
coast of California, and the California salmon in the rivers of the 
Atlantic slope. The marsena, or lake whitefish, of Europe, has been 
introduced into a lake of Wisconsin. It is not my purpose to speak of 
the great success in restocking with shad and salmon several rivers in 
which the supply was almost exhausted, and in planting the Schoodic 
salmon in numerous lakes. By an act of international courtesy, Cali- 
fornia salmon have been successfully introduced into New Zealand and 
Germany. The propagation work has increased in importance from 
year to year, as may be seen by the constant increase in the amount of 
the annual appropriation. A review of the results of the labors of the 
Commission, in increasing the food supply of the country, may be found 
in the annual reports ; the rude appliances of fish culture ten years ago 
have given way to scientifically devised apparatus, by which millions 
of eggs are hatched where thousands were, and the demonstration of 
the possibility of stocking rivers and lakes to any desired extent has 
been greatly strengthened. This work was for six years most efficiently 
directed by the late Mr. James W. Milner, and is now in charge of 
Maj. T. B. Ferguson, also commissioner for the State of Maryland, by 
whom has been devised the machinery for propagation on a gigantic 
scale, by the aid of steam, which is now so successfully in use, revolu- 
tionizing the art of fish culture. 

The investigation of the statistics and history of the fisheries has 
perhaps assumed greater proportions than was at first contemplated. 
One of the immediate causes of the establishment of the Commission was 
the dissension between the line and net fishermen of Southern New 
England with reference to laws for the protection of the deteriorating 
fisheries of that region. The first work of Professor Baird, as Commis- 
sioner, was to investigate the causes of this deterioration, and the report 
of that year's work includes much statistical material. In the same 
year a zoological and statistical survey of the Great Lakes was accom- 
plished, and various circulars were sent out in contemplation of the 
preparation of monograj)hic reports upon the special branches of the 
fisheries, some of which have already been published. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 147 

In 1877, the Commissioner and his staff were summoned to Ilalifax to 
serve as witnesses and experts before the Halifax Fishery Commission, 
then charged with the settlement of the amount of compensation to be 
IDaid by the United States for the privilege of participating in the lish- 
eries of the Provinces. The information at that time available concern- 
ing the fisheries was found to be so slight and imperfect that a plan for 
systematic investigation of the subject was arranged and partially un- 
dertaken. The work was carried on for two seasons with some financial 
aid from the Dei)artment of State. In 1879 an arrangement was made 
with the Superintendent of the Tenth Census, who agreed to bear a. 
part of the expense of carrying out the scheme in full. Some thirty 
trained exi^erts are now engaged in the preparation of a statistical report 
on the .present state and the past history of the fisheries of the United 
States. This will be finished next year, but the subject will hereafter 
be continued in monographs upon separate branches of the fisheries, such 
as the halibut fishery, the mackerel fishery, the shad fishery, the cod 
fishery, the herring fishery, the smelt fishery, and various others of less 
importance. 

Hundreds, and even thousands, of specimens of a single species are 
often obtained. After those for the National Museum have been selected, 
a great number of duplicates remain. These are identified, labeled, 
and made into sets for exchange with other museums for distribution to 
schools and small museums. This is in accordance with the time-hon- 
ored usage of the Smithsonian Institution, and is regarded as an im- 
portant branch of the work. Several specialists are employed solely 
in making np these sets and in gathering material required for their 
comx)letion. Within three years fifty sets of fishes in alcohol, including 
at least t«n thousand specimens, have been sent out, and fifty sets of 
invertebrates, embracing one hundred and seventy-five sjiecies and two 
hundred and fifty thousand specimens. One hundred smaller sets of 
representative forms intended for educational purposes, to be given to 
schools and academies, are now being i^repared. 

The arrangement of the invertebrate dui^licates is in the charge of 
Mr, Richard Rathbun ; of the fishes, in that of Dr. T. H. Bean. 

Facilities have also been given to many institutions for making col- 
lections on their own behalf. 

Six annual reports have been published, with an aggregate of 5,650 
pages. These cover the period from 1871 to 1878. Many j)apers relat- 
ing to the work have been published elsewhere — particularly descrip- 
tions of new species and results of special fauual exploration. 

AN EPITOME OF THE HISTORY OF THE COMMISSION. 

1871. — The Commissioner, with a party of zoologists, established the 
first summer station at Wood's Holl, Mass., other assistants being en- 
gaged in a similar work at Cape Hatteras and the Great Lakes. He 
also personally investigated the alleged decrease of the fisheries in 
southern New England, taking the testimony of numerous witnesses. 



148 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

1872.— This year the summer station was at Eastport, Me., particular 
attention being paid to the herring fisheries. The survey of the Great 
Lakes was continued. Dredging, under the direction of Professor Pack- 
ard, was begun on the off-shore banks. At the instance of the American 
Fish Cultural Association, Congress requested the Commissioner to 
take charge of the work of multiplying valuable food fishes throughout 
the country. Work was begun on the shad, salmon, and whitefish, and 
the eggs of the European salmon were imported. 

1873. The summer headquarters were fixed at Portland, Me. The 

opportunities for research were greatly increased by the aid of the Sec- 
retary of the Navy, who granted the use of an eighty -ton steamer. 

Explorations in the outer waters between Mount Desert and Cape 
Cod were carried on in the United States Coast Survey steamer Bache. 
Operations in fish culture were carried on upon an extensive scale. 

1874-1875.— In 1874 the zoological work centered at Noank, Conn. 
The attempt was made to introduce shad into Europe. In 1875 the 
station was for a second time at Wood's HoU, where a permanent sea- 
side laboratory, with aquaria, was now established. The number of 
investigations this year was about twenty. The increase in the propa- 
gation work was proportionately much larger. 

1876,— This year the Commissioner was unable to take the field for 
fishery investigations, having been instructed to exhibit, in connection 
with the Philadelphia International Exhibition, the methods of fish 
culture and the American fisheries. Much, however, was accomplished 
by single investigators in various localities. The propagation work 
continued. This year the first carp were introduced from Germany. 

1877.— The field of investigation was resumed at Salem, Mass., and 
later at Halifax, Nova Scotia. A large steamer of 300 tons made deep- 
sea research possible. The Commissioner and his staff served as experts 
before the Halifax Fishery Commission. The propagating work was 
on the increase, and the government carp ponds were established in 
Washington. 

1878-1879.— In 1878 the summer station was at Gloucester, Mass. 5 in 
1879 at Provincetown. These centers of the fishing interests were se- 
lected that more attention might be devoted to studying the history, 
statistics and methods of the sea fisheries; a plan for the systematic 
investigation which seems yearly more necessary in view of the dissen- 
sions between the governments of the United States and Great Britain. 
In 1879 a combination was formed with the Superintendent of the Tenth 
Census, by which the Commissioner was enabled to carry more rapidly 
forward this branch of the work. Specialists were dispatched to all parts 
of the country to study the biological, statistical, and practical aspects of 
the fisheries. In 1878 the breeding of cod and haddock was accom- 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 149 

plished at Gloucester. lu 1879 the propagation of the oyster was 
accomplislied, by co-operation with the Maryland Coiuniission under the 
direction of Major Ferguson, and the distribution of the carp through- 
out the country was begun. 

1880. — The summer station is at Newport, R. I. The Fish Haicli, a 
steamer of 484 tons, constructed expressly for the work of the Commis- 
sion, lies at the wharf, now equipped for scientific research, later to be 
emj)loyed in the proi^agation of sea fish, such as the cod and the mack- 
erel. Over fifty investigators are in the field in the service of the Com- 
mission. The season was opened by the participation of the Commission 
in the International Exhibition at Berlin. The first honor prize, the gift 
of the Emperor of Germany, was awarded to Professor Baird, not alone 
as an acknowledgment that the display of the United States was the 
most perfect and most imj)osing, but as a personal tribute to one who, 
in the words of the President of the Deutscher Fischerei Verein, is re- 
garded in Europe as "the first fishculturist in the world." 



SPECIAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

PKESENTED TO THE BOARD OF EEGENTS DECEMBER 8, 1880. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : The Board of Eegents lias been called to this special 
meeting at the request of the Executive Committee to consider two sub- 
jects of importance, requiring action before its regular annual session. 
At the last session of Congress the following act was passed : 

AN ACT for the erection of a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the 

Smithsonian Institution. 

Be it enacted hy the Senate and Souse of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Eegents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution be, and are hereby, authorized to contract with W. 
W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of Joseph Henry, late Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected upon the grounds of 
said Institution, and for this i)urpose, and for the entire expense of the 
foundation and pedestal of the monument, the sum of fifteen thousand 
dollars is hereby appropriated out of any moneys in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated. 

Approved June 6, 1880. 

(Forty-sixth Congress, second session, chapter 116.) 

The Secretary of the Institution immediately informed Mr. Story of 
this action of Congress, and requested his views on the subject and in- 
formation as to his acceptance of the commission. 

This correspondence is as follows : 

" S:^iTHS0NiAN Institution, 

" Washington, J). C, June 10, 1880. 

" Sir: a bill providing for the erection of a statue of Prof. Joseph 
Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, introduced by 
Senator Morrill, has become a law. A copy of this is herewith inclosed. 

"As you will see, its essential points are the provision for a bronze 
statue of Professor Henry, to be placed in the Smithsonian grounds, 
and that the total cost, including expenses for the pedestal, &c., shall 
not exceed $15,000. 

"I beg to inquire whether you will accept the commission under 
these conditions ; and presuming that you will, I forward herewith as 
full a series of photographs of the illustrious deceased as can be sup- 

150 



SPECIAL EEPOET OF TUE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 151 

plied by the Institution. This series includes those which in the opinion 
of Professor Henry's family are most characteristic likenesses. 

"I shall be pleased to have from you any communication on this sub- 
ject, and, if possible, designs for the proposed statue and pedestal, for 
communication to the Board of Regents at their next annual meeting 
in January, 1881. 

"As this Board is to decide upon the construction of the statue, it 
will not be possible to give you hnal authority iu the matter until tlie 
Board shall have taken action thereon. 

" 1 am, meanwhile, very truly yours, 

" SPENCER F. BAIRU, 

^^ Secretary. 
" W. W. Story, Esq., 

'■'■American Sculptor^ Rome, Italy. 

Letter of Mr. Story to Professor Baird. 

" Venice, July 15, 1880. 

" Sib : I have just received your letter of June 10, informing me of the 
bill lately passed by Congress, by wliich the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution are authorized to contract with me for a statue in bronze of 
the late Professor Henry, for the sum of $15,000, including the founda- 
tion and pedestal of the monument, and asking mc whether I will accept 
this commission. 

"jMr. Senator Morrill had already communicated to me this entirely 
unexpected and agreeable news. Until his communication was made, 
I had no notion that it was intended to erect such a statue, but I most 
willingly accept the commission, with hearty thanks to those friends 
who, without any knowledge on my i^art, put forward my name as the 
sculptor. 

" My recollections of Professor Henry are in every way most pleasant. 
He was very kind to me when I was last in Washington, a-nd it will 
give me pleasure to do all iu my power to make a statue of him worthy 
of his high distinction and his amiable character. 

The photographs which you have had the kindness to send have not 
yet arrived, but I have little doubt that they will supply me with the neces- 
sary material. As you say nothing of a mask in plaster from the face, 
I suppose none was taken. This I greatly regret, as it would furnish 
me, in connection with the photographs, the absolute facts of the face, 
as well as the character and expression. If such a mask was taken, or 
anything was ever made of him containing the exact measures of his foce 
and features, I should be most glad to have them. If any bust was ever 
made, however bad, it would be of use to me in determining points of 
size and measurement. I hope, too, there may be among the photo- 
graphs some one or more in profile^ or at least three-quarters face. Do 
not in such case be prevented from sending them merely because they 



152 SPECIAL EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

are bad in expression or otherwise. What I want is facts, and the more 
I can have of these the better. They will not lead me astray as to ex- 
pression. Small facts and details may be explained in one which are 
not clearly determined in another, and enable me to make the head more 
living and true. 

" I regret to hear that no absolute action can be taken by the Board 
before January 1, 1881. This will greatly delay the execution of the 
statue, to which I was intending to devote myself immediately on my 
return to Eome in October or November, so as to be able to finish the 
model this winter. But if all final arrangement is postponed until Jan- 
uary before the absolute commission can be given and the contract 
made, the winter will have i)assed, and the execution of the statue will, 
I fear, be necessarily j)ostponed for a year, as it is impossible for me to 
remain in Eome and execute the model during the summer without very 
great inconvenience and difiiculty. 

''You wish me to send you, if possible, designs for the proposed statue 
and pedestal, for communication to the Board of Eegents at their an- 
nual meeting in January, 1881. Of course I can do this, if they think it 
advisable or necessary; but I must frankly say — I hope they will excuse 
me in so saying, as no kind of disrespect is intended, or want of confi- 
dence in their taste and judgment — that I think, if they have any faith 
in my ability, it would be better for them to leave the conception and 
execution of the statue entirely to me. There is nothing so dangerous 
as to interfere with an artist in his design, or to judge of it and criticise 
it from a small model. The freer he is, the more responsible he feels, 
and, if he has real ability, the less he is tampered with and directed, the 
better his work will be. If he has not the requisite ability to do it by 
himself, he should better not do it at all. No suggestions by any com- 
mittee and no directions and alterations will ever make his work good. 
My own experience has been that this divided responsibility and design- 
ing has almost invariably resulted in dissatisfaction on both sides. The 
artist can only do well with what is in his own mind, and not what is in 
the mind of others, and my own judgment is that he does far better 
when left to himself, always provided he has real capacity for his work. 
If I may be allowed to allude to my own personal experience, I may add 
that in the case of almost the only public portrait statue of mine in 
America, the committee, composed of gentlemen of high taste and pre- 
tension to artistic culture, after rejecting my own first sketch, and in- 
sisting on my altering the attitude and arrangement to meet their views, 
contrary to my notions, were finally persuaded, when the work was 
completed and it was too late, that they had been entirely wrong in 
dictatlDg these changes, and regretted that they had interfered. Never- 
theless they threw upon me the responsibility which belonged solely to 
them. I made their statue and not mme, and they were disappointed, 
as I toretold that they would be. But I do not need to speak of my 



SPECIAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 153 

own personal experience ; the experience of all artists is the same on 
this point. 

" However, if despite this, the Board desires me to send them a sketch 
I can do so ; but of course, as I have stated, this will delay the statue 
for a year, and I cannot see the advantage. 

" In fact, I have already made a sketch of the statue since I received 
Mr. Morrill's communication. But I doubt whether it would mean as 
much to you and to the Board of Regents as it does to me ; whether you 
would rightly understand it in its roughness, and whether you would not 
look for that finish which no free sketch ought to have, and rather look 
to details than to matters and balance of composition, which are the all 
in all of a sketch. I say this because I know one case where a sketch 
was rejected because the likeness in the face was not striking, as if any 
true artist would, in a mere sketch, attempt exact portraiture of the face. 
It would be equally good as to composition and design with no face at 
all, if it had the just movement. 

" You say nothing as to details of the commission, or the size of the 
statue, or the place where it is to be erected, or its surroundings. Is it 
to be in the open air, or under cover in the buildings ? Is its back- 
ground trees, sky, or building ? All these are very important consider- 
ations in view of its effect and of its size. 

" I take it for granted that the pedestal is to be a simple oue, and not 
to have illustrative bas-reliefs or figures, inasmuch as the sum appro- 
priated for the whole thing is less, or certainly not more, than what is 
ordinarily paid for a statue alone without pedestal or foundation. I 
also suppose by the reading of the act of Congress that this sum is to 
cover the cost of the statue and "the entire expense of the foundation 
and pedestal," and this is all. It does not, as I understand it, include 
boxing, transportation, insurance, and placing, as they are distinctly 
not mentioned. 

" Can you give me an estimate of the cost of making the foundation, 
and approximate price of a simple pedestal executed in Washington, in 
marble or red granite, or stone of any appropriate kind ? This would 
guide me in determining where I should make the pedestal, whether 
here or in Washington, and of what material. 

''As to the sum of $15,000 appropriated by Congress, does interest run 
upon it from the date of the enactment "? In regard to payment I sup- 
pose you are aware that the ordinary rule is to advance to the artist 
one-half the sum when the commission is given, or the work commenced, 
to euable him to meet the necessary outlay and expenses, without re- 
course to his own pocket. 

" I mention all these particulars in order to avoid all misunderstanding. 

" I again recur to the question of time, and I earnestly hope that it will 
be possible for the Board of Eegents to arrange definitely this whole mat- 
ter at a much earlier period than that mentioned in your letter, viz: 
January 1, 1881, as it will involve the loss of a year. If I could have 



154 SPECIAL EEPOET OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

the commission and authorization to commence the work by the 1st of 
October or November, I could finish the model by the spring and imme- 
diately arrange for its casting in bronze during the summer so as to 
have it ready to send to Washington by the 1st of October following 
(1881). 

" I suppose that the Board of Eegents is equally interested with myself 
in desiring the statue to be finished as soon as possible, and if they will 
definitely authorize me to begin the model by the 1st of November, I 
can promise, unless some unforseen accident occurs, to finish it in bronze 
by the 1st of January, 1882 ; otherwise I fear we shall have to put it 
forward to January, 1883. 

" If the Board of Eegents have faith in my ability and will trust me to 
follow out my own ideas in this statue, I will pledge myself to do my 
best to satisfy myself and them, and to spare no pains to give them a 
statue wortliy of the subject, worthy of the place, and satisfactory to 
the family, friends, and admirers of Professor Henry. 

" You must not expect too much. The male costume of the present 
day is crude, graceless, and thoroughly un sculptural. But I wiU do 
what I can to hide its awkwardness and ugliness without falsifying 
truth and fact, and endeavor to render the statue serious and dignified 
and natural. I suppose that Professor Henry had no academic costume, 
and that there is no peculiar professional dress in which he could be 
represented. If there be, and the Board of Eegents is willing that I 
should clothe the statue in such a dress, I should most gladly do it. 
Then I should be able to drape him in some way at once dignified and 
true to fact. The academic costume could be treated so as to make an 
imposing statue. In such case, would you have the kindness to forward 
to me the dress, that I may use it to model from ? The silk academic 
robes would be admirable and advisable, but I scarcely dare to hope 
that he wore one, or that I may use it. What did he wear? If this 
academic dress is out of the question, what may I represent him in? 
Did he wear a cloak ? 

" The sketch I have made represents him as in a buttoned frock-coat, 
over which is a loose open sack ; it is in the attitude of meditation ; his 
head bent slightly forwards, looking down, one hand resting on a desk 
or stand at his side, by which to break the horrible uniformity of the two 
legs of pantaloons, and give breadth and dignity to the base, and one 
hand across the breast midway, at the place of the upi^er button of the 
buttoned coat; on the stand are books on which his left hand is placed. 
On the whole, those who have seen it, think it simi^le, dignified, and 
thoughtful. If it is to be made in coat and trousers, I doubt if I could 
do better, but I shall think it over and make other sketches. 

" Will you be kind enough to send me any memoir that may exist of 
Professor Henry, so that I may have a more thorough knowledge of his 
character and services and labors than I now have. I beg you not to 



SPECIAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 155 

forget this, as it will greatly assist me in determining the exact character 
to be given to the statue. 

"I have written you a very long letter in the hope of clearing the way 
of all obstacles, and of letting you understand exactly what my views 
and wishes are. 

"Yours, faithfully, 

"W. W. STORY." 

During the recess of Congress it was found impracticable to call a 
meeting of the Eegents, but their views were asked individually by the 
Secretary as to the power of the Executive Committee to make a formal 
contract with the artist and enable him to go on with the work. 

The opinion of the majority was that this power coidd be exercised 
by the Executive Committee. A meeting was therefore called of this 
Committee on the 13th of November, 1880, when the subject was fully 
considered and the following action taken : 

^^Eesolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution inform 
Mr. Story that the Executive Committee authorize him to proceed in 
the execution of the bronze statue ordered by Congress June 1, 1880, 
according to his own plan and designs, but that this Committee Is not 
empowered to make a formal contract for this puri^ose, although war- 
ranted in such action by the individual expressions of Eegents as con- 
tained in letters received by the Secretary. 

^^Eesolved, That a special meeting of the Eegents be called on the 8th 
of December, 1880, to consider the subject, and if the action of the Ex- 
ecutive Committee is not confirmed, a cable message be immediately 
sent to Mr. Story, and, if approved, a contract in due form be made out 
and transmitted to him." 

This action of the Committee was communicated to Mr. Story by the 
Secretary on the 13th of ISTovember. 

Another subject demanding the consideration of the Board has been 
presented to the Executive Committee. 

A committee of citizens of Washington having liresented a request 
for the- use of the new National Museum building for a reception to the 
President of the United States elect, on the 4th of March next, after a 
full consideration of the subject, in view of the fact that the building is 
unfinished and not yet occupied as a Museum, and that such a contin- 
gency would not again occur and would not therefore furnish a jjrece- 
dent ; in view also of the fact that the expense of erecting a suitable 
building would be very great and unnecessary, and, moreover, that the 
President elect is and has been for many years a member of the Board 
of Eegents, whose aid and influence contributed materially to the erec- 
tion of the new Museum, the Committee adopted the following : 

" Whereas an application has been received from a committee of citi- 
zens for the use of the unfinished building of the National Museum, for 



156 SPECIAL EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

the purpose of a public reception to the President elect, Hon. James A. 
Garfield, on the evening of the 4th of March next ; therefore, 

'■'"Resolved., That the Executive Committee submit this application to 
the Board of Eegents at its next meeting, with its approval and with 
the recommendation that the request be granted." 

The Committee furthermore make the following statement : 

The new National Museum building has been substantially com- 
pleted and made ready for occupancy within the ai)propriations by Con- 
gress. A detailed account of the history of operations of its construc- 
tion Avill be presented at the annual meeting of the Board in January 
next. 

The Building Commission has refrained from comi^leting the floors of 
the rotunda and large halls or naves according to the original plans, 
which provided only for concrete and cement, on account of the remon- 
strances of prominent members of Congress, who urged that such floors 
were unsuitable to, and unworthy of, so fine a building, and their assur- 
ances that appropriations would doubtless be made at the approaching 
session of Congress for marble or tile floors for these halls. 

The Committee report that provision has been made so that the floors 
of the rotunda and four naves leading to the main entrance of the build- 
ing may be laid in marble or tile instead of cement, and that if an ap- 
propriation of $25,000 be made immediately, the building will be ready 
for the reception of the President on the 4th of March next, fully adapted 
and provided with heat, light, and all the facilities required for the oc- 
casion. 

In conclusion, the Committee respectfully submit the following reso- 
lutions to the Board for adoption : 

^''Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 
stitute execute a contract with Mr. W. W. Story, of Eome, for the statue 
in bronze of the late Prof. Joseph Henry, authorized by the act of 
Congress of June 1, 1880, with the provision for payment of the sum of 
$3,750 to Mr. Story on completion of his design for the statue ; the sum 
of $3,750 on completion of the model in clay ; the sum of $3,750 on com- 
pletion of the statue in bronze; and the sum of $3,750 on delivery and 
erection of the statue with its pedestal in the city of Washington, on 
the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, and furthermore that Mr. 
Story shall cause the said statue to be insured for the amount of the ad- 
vance payments to him, against perils by land or by sea, which insur- 
ance shall, in case of loss, be paid to the Smithsonian Institution for the 
benefit of the United States. 

^'■Resolved., That for the purpose of substituting a marble or tile floor- 
ing, instead of concrete, as originally designed, for the large halls in the 
National Museum, an appropriation of twenty-five thousand dollars be 
requested of Congress, to be expended according to the plans and under 
the direction of the building commission of the Board of Regents of the 



I 



SPECIAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



157 



Smithsonian Institution, under wliose supervision the Museum has been 
erected. 

^^Besolved, That the use of the new National Museum buikling be 
granted for the inaugural reception of the President of the United States 
on the 4th of March, 1881, and^ that the Secretary be authorized to 
make all necessary arrangements for this i)urpose." 

Eespectfully submitted. 

PETER PARKER, 
W. T. SHERMAI^, 
Executive Committee. 

Washington, 8th Becemler, 1880. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE 
YEAR 1880. 

The Executive Comniittee of tlie Board of Eegents of tlie Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submit the following rejiort in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum and other purposes, the receipts and expenditures for both 
the Institution and the Museum for 1880, and the estimates for the 
year 1881. 

Condition of the funds January 1, 1881. 

The amount originally received as the bequest 
of James Smithson, of England, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States, in 
accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1846 $515,169 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received 
in 1865, added to the fund, by authority of 
Congress, February 8, 1867 26, 210 63 

Amount added to the fund, derived from sav- 
ings, &c., by authority of Congress, Febru- 
ary 8, 1867 108,620 37 

$650, 000 00 

Amount added to the fund from the bequest 

of James Hamilton, of Penns^^lvania, 1874. 1, 000 00 

Amount added to the fund from the bequest 

of Dr. Simeon Habel, 1880 500 00 

1, 500 00 



Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 
semi-annually 651, 500 00 

In addition to the above the Institution has invested in 
Virginia bonds and certificates $88,125.20, valued Janu- 
ary 1, 1881, at 47,000 00 

Also the cash balance in the United States Treasurer's 
hands January 1, 1881 20,934 52 

Total Smithson funds January 1, 1881 $719, 434 52 

158 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 159 

The following is a statement of tlie receipts and expenditures for the 
year 1880 : 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest on $050,000 for the year 1880, at G per cent $39, 000 00 

Interest on Virginia bonds, sale of coupons by Eiggs & Co. 
for January 1 and July 1, 1880, for $3,522 (November, 

27, 1880), less commission 3^ 239 76 

Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000 for the year 1880 GO 00 

Interest on the Habel fund of $500 from March 15, 1880, to 

December 31, 1880 . 23 88 



^ 42,323 G4 

Balance on hand at the beginning of 1880 20, 894 OG 



Total for 1880 G3, 217 70 

EXPENDITURES. 



Buildings : 

Eepairs and improvements $1, 722 71 

Furniture and fixtures 3G9 15 



General expenses : 

Meetings of the Board 327 25 

Lighting the building 29 15 

Heating the building 572 11 

Postage and telegraphing 324 74 

Stationery 888 07 

Incidentals, blanks, hauling, &g 853 7G 

Salaries 12,700 00 

Extra clerk hire and labor 295 00 

Books and i^eriodicals 889 71 



$2,091 86 



10,879 79 



Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian Contributions 5, 358 95 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 4, 844 6() 

Smithsonian annual reports 731 6Q 

Kesearches 400 44 

Explorations .' 1, 191 59 

Laboratory 194 G8 

12, 721 98 

Exchanges : 
Literary and scientific , 9, 996 05 

Gallery of art : 
Purchase of articles : - 03 50 

Increase of the perrnanent fund : 
Deposited in United States Treasury as Habel bequest 500 00 

Total expenditures 42, 283 18 

Balance on hand in Treasury of the United States January 

1,1881 20,934 52 



160 EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

VIRGINIA STOCK. 

The Institution owns the following bonds and certificates : 
Consolidated bonds : 
58 bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578 inclusive, for $1,000 

each 158, 000 00 

1 bond, No. 1380, for 500 00 

2 bonds, Nos. 4191 and 4192, for $100 each .... 200 00 

$58, 700 00 

These are dejDosited with the Treasurer of the United 
States. 

Deferred certificates : 

Icertificate, No. 4543 29,375 07 

1 certificate, No. 2969 50 13 

29, 425 20 

These are deposited with Eiggs & Co. 
Total par value of Virginia securities 88, 125 20 

The estimated value of which by Eiggs & Co. January 1, 

1881, is 47, 000 00 

The coupons on the consolidated bonds are receivable for taxes in 
Virginia, and were sold for the Institution by Eiggs & Co. November 27, 
1880, viz, $'3,522 at an average of 92, yielding $3,239.76. (See Eeceipts.) 

It is gratifying to notice the improvement of the Virginia securities, 
the increased value of those held by the Institution being $15,910 since 
the report of the committee last year. 

HAMILTON BEQUEST. 

The Institution derived from the bequest of James Hamilton, of Car- 
lisle, Pa., February 24, 1874, one thousand dollars, the interest on which 
is to be appropriated biennially for the promotion of science. The prin- 
cipal is deposited in the Treasury of the United States as 'an addition to 
the permanent Smithson fund. The interest received on this fund dur- 
ing 1880,-^was $60. 

HABEL BEQUEST. 

Among the receipts for the year 1879 was a bequest of $402.59, by 
Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York. With the sanction of the Executive 
Committee, the Secretary added to this sum $97.41 from the annual in- 
come of the Institution to increase it to $500, and this was deposited in 
the United States Treasury as a part of the Smithson fund, to be known 
as the Habel bequest. This deposit was made on the 15th of March, 
1880, the interest on which to the end of the year was $23.88, as specified 
in the receipts. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 161 

ESTIMATES FOR 1881. 

The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the 
year 1881, and of the expenditures required for carrying on its operations 
during the same period : 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest on the permanent Smithson fund re- 
ceivable July 1, 1881, and January 1, 1882. . $39, 000 00 

Interest on the Hamilton fund 60 00 

Interest on the Habel fund 30 00 

Sale of Virginia coupons, due January 1 and 
July 1, 1881 3, 000 OO 



$12,090 00 



EXPENDITURES. 

For budding $2,000 00 

For salaries 12, 700 00 

For general expenses other than salaries 1, 300 00 

For i^ublications and researches 11, 000 00 

For exchanges _ 10, 000 00 

For books and apparatus 1, 000 00 

For contingencies 1, 090 00 



$42,090 00 



NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OBJECTS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1880, for dis- 
bursal under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution : " For 
preservation and care of the collections of the surveying 
and exploring expeditions of the government and the ob- 
jects presented to the United States at the International 
Exposition of 1876." (Forty-sixth Congress, second ses- 
sion, chapter 235; 1880) $45, 000 00 

Balance available January 1, 1881, $23,273.17. 

Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution — Armory 
Building : " For expense of watching, care, and storage 
of articles belonging to the United States, including those 
transferred from the International Exhibition of 1876, 
and for transfer to the new National Museum." (Forty- 
sixth Congress, second session, chapter 235 ; 1880) 2, 500 00 

Balance available, $1,366.05. 
S. Mis. 31 11 



162 KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

For furniture and Jixtures, National Mtiscum : "For cases, 
furniture, and fixtures for the reception, care, and exhibi- 
tion of the collections of geology, mineralogy, ethnology, 
technology, and natural history, presented to the govern- 
ment by foreign nations." (Fortj-sixth Congress, second 

session, chapter 235 ; 1880) $50, 000 00 

Balance available, $44,251.07. 

" For a steam-heating apparatus and for fuel : to be im- 
mediately available." (Forty-sixth Congress, second ses- 
sion, chapter 235; 1880) 25,000 00 

" For water, gas fixtures, and electrical aj^iiaratus, to be 
immediately available." (Forty-sixth Congress, second 

session, chapter 235 ; 1880) 12, 500 00 

Balance available, $5,050.33. 

"For construction of relieving sewer, with the necessary 
manholes and traps from the new National Museum 
building to the Seventh street sewer." (Forty-sixth 

Congress, second session, chapter 235; 1880) 1, 000 00 

No portion expended. 

''For the purpose of continuing ethnologic researches 
among the North American Indians under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution." (Forty- 
sixth Congress, second session, chapter 235; 1880) 20, 000 00 

Balance available, $7,308.32. 

"For completing the preparation, with the necessary illus- 
trations, of the report of Dr. Emil Bcssels, of the scien- 
tific results of the Arctic expedition under the late Capt. 
C. F. Hall, to be expended under the control of the Smith- 
sonian Institution." (Forty-sixth Congress, second ses- 
sion, chapter 234; 1880) 8, 000 00 

Balance available, $G,183.GG. 

CONCLUSION. 

The Executive Committee has examined G82 vouchers for payments 
made from the Smithson income during the year 1880, and 791 vouchers 
for i^ayments made from appropriations hj Congress for the National 
Museum, making a total of 1,473 vouchers. All these bear the approval 
of the Secretary of the Institution and a certificate that the materials 
and services charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution or 
the Museum. 

The Committee has examined the account-books of the National 
Museum, aiul find the balances remaining on hand as before stated, viz: 
"Preservation of collections," $23,273.17; "Armory building," $1,360.59 ; 
"Furniture and fixtures," $44,251.07, to correspond with the certificate 
of the disbursing clerk of the Department of the Interior, and the bal- 
ance for "fire-proof building for National Museum," $5,050.33, "Polaris 



EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. IGo 

report," $0,183.60, to correspond with the certificates of the disbursing 
officer of the Treasury Department. 

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and journals 
have likewise been examined and found to be correct. 

The balance to the credit of the Institution i)roper, on the 1st of Jan- 
uary, 1881, iu the hands of the Treasurer of the United States, available 
for the current operations of the Institution, is $20,934.52. 
Respectfully submitted. 

PETER PARKER, 
W. T. SHERMAN, 
JOni^ MACLExiX, 
Executive Committee, Smithaonlan InstUution. 
Washington, January 18, 1881. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, December 8, 1880. 

A meeting of tlie Board of Eegents of the Smitlisoniau Institution was 
held this day at 10.30 o'clock in the Regents' room of the Institution. 

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice Waite; Hon. W. A. Wheeler, 
Vice-President of the United States; Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. E. E. 
Withers, Hon. N. Booth, Hon. H. Olymer, Hon. Joseph E. Johnston, 
Hon. Peter Parker, General William T. Sherman, Prof. H. Coppee, and 
Professor Baird, Secretary. 

The Chancellor stated that this was a si^ecial meeting of the Board 
called at the request of the Executive Committee. A report of this 
committee was presented by the chairman, Dr. Parker. 

After a full discussion of the subjects presented in the re^jort, the 
following resolutions were unanimously adopted. 

(In reference to the statue of Professor Henry.) 

Eesolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution execute a contract with Mr. W. W. Story, of Eome, for the 
statue in bronze of the late Prof. Joseph Henry, authorized by the act 
of Congress of Juiie, 1, 1880, with the pro\isions for payment of the 
sum of $3,750 to Mr. Story on completion of his design for the statue; 
the sum of $3,750 on comjiletion of the model in clay ; the sum of $3,750 
on completion of the statue in bronze ; and the sum of $3,750 on deliv- 
ery and erection of the statue with its pedestal in the city of Washing- 
ton, on the site to be selected by the Executive Committee ; and fur- 
thermore that Mr. Story shall cause the said statue to be insured for 
the amount of the advance payments to him against j^erils by land or 
by sea, which insurance shall, in case of loss, be paid to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, for the benefit of the United States. 

(In reference to the new Museum building.) 

Resolved., That for the purpose of substituting a marble or tile floor- 
ing instead of concrete as originally designed for the large halls in the 
National Museum, an appropriation of $25,000 be requested of Congress, 
to be exj)ended according to the plans and under the direction of the 
Building Commission of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, under whose supervision the Museum has been constructed. 

(In reference to tlie use of the new Museum for the inaugural recep- 
tion.) 

Whereas the new Museum building is unfinished and not ready for 
occupancy for the government collections, and such a contingency will 

164 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 165 

not again occur, and that no i)recedent is to be given for the use of the 
buihling for other i)urposes : 

Resolved., That the use of the new National Museum buihling be 
granted for the inaugural receptiou of the President of the United 
States, on the 4th of March, 1881, and that the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution be authorized to make all necessary arrangements 
for this purpose. 

The Board then adjourned, at 12:30 r. m. 

Washington, January 19, 1881. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regeuts of the Smith- 
sonian Institution fixing the time of the beginning of the annual session 
on the third Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met to-day 
at 10:30 o'clock, A. m. 

Present: The Chancellor, Chief Justice M. R. Waitt;; the Vice-Presi- 
dent of the United States, Hon. W. A. Wheeler ; Hon. R. E. Withers, 
Hon. H. Clymer, General W. T. Sherman, Hon. Peter Parker, Rev. Dr. 
John Maclean, Dr. Henry Coppee, Dr. Noah Porter, and the Secretary, 
Professor Baird. 

Excuses for absence on accouiit of sickness were received from Hon. 
Hannibal Hamlin and Hon. Newton Booth. The minutes of the last 
meeting were read and approved. The Secretary [)resented a statement 
of the finances of the Institution. 

Dr. Parker, Chairman of the Executive Committee, presented the an- 
nual report of the Committee, which was read. 

On motion of Dr. Porter the following resolutions were adopted: 

Resolved., That the report of the Executive Committee for 1880 be ac- 
cepted. 

Resolved, That the income for the year 1881 be appropriated for the 
service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be ex- 
pended by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to 
the approval of the Executive Committee. 

General Sherman, Chairman of the National Museum Building Com- 
mission, presented a report of the operations of the Commission and of 
the Architects for the year 1880, which were read, and, on motion of Mr. 
Clymer, accepted. 

The Secretary stated that he had been informed by the American 
Consul at Genoa, Italy, that the corner-posts of the railing around the 
tomb of James Smithson required resetting and the fence straightening, 
and he asked authority to have this done. 

On motion of General Sherman it was 

Resolved, That suitable measures be taken by the Secretary for the 
repair and preservation of the tomb of Smithson and its inclosure. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Institution for the year 1880, which was read 
in part. 



166 



JOURNAL OF THE BOARD. 



On motion of General Sherman it was 

Resolved, That the annua] report of the Secretary be accepted and 
transmitted to Conjjress. 

Dr. Coppee offered the following resolution, which was adopted. 

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Eegents are due and are 
hereby presented to Mr. William J. Rhees, the Chief Clerk of the Insti- 
tution, for the excellent, accurate, and interesting manner in which, 
under the direction of the Secretary, he has colhited and edited the 
volumes entitled, respectively, 

1. "The Smithsonian Institution; documents relative to its origin and 
history." 

2. "Journals of the Board of Regents, reports of Committees, Statis- 
tics, &c." 

3. "The Scientific Writings of James Smithson." 

4. "James Smithson and his bequest." 

Hon. Mr. Withers made a statement, by request, in regard to the Vir- 
ginia securities, and on motion of Mr. Clymer it was 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee may at their discretion 
dispose of the Virginia securities owned by the Institution, to wit : 58 
consolidated bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578, inclusive, for $1,000 each ; 1 
consolidated bond, No. 1380, for $500; 2 consolidated bonds, Nos. 4191 
and 4192, for $100 each; 1 deferred certificate, No. 4543, dated July 1, 
1871, for $29,375.07, and 1 fractional certificate, No. 2909, dated July 1, 
1871, for $50.13, and deposit the proceeds in the Treasury of the United 
States as a part of the permanent fund, as authorized by the act of Con- 
gress of February 8, 1867. 

Resolved, That Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, be, and he is hereby, authorized, in person or by attorney, to 
transfer to any person or persons the certificates of debt of the State of 
Virginia now standing in the name of the Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to wit: Deferred certificate. No. 4543, dated July 1, 1871, 
for $29,375.07, and fractional certificate. No. 2909, dated July 1, 1871, 
for $50.13. 

The Secretary stated that several applications had been received for 
the use of the new Museum after the inauguration of the President on 
the 4th of March next, which had been referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

Tlie point of order was raised that the applications could not be 
•entertained, the Board having already decided that the use of the build- 
ing was to be granted only for the inaugural reception of President 
Garfield. 

The point of order was sustained by the Chancellor. 

The Board adjourned at 12:30 p. m., sine die. 



REPORT OF THE NATIOiNAL MUSEUM BUILDING COMMISSION 

FOR 1880. 



Washington, D. C, January 15, 1881. 
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : At your annual meeting on tlie 19tli of last January, 
the National Museum Building Commission submitted a report of opera- 
tions in connection with the new building for the National Museum, from 
their inception to the close of 1879. 

In that report attention was called to the necessity for increased 
accommodations for the national collections in charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution; to the endeavors of your Board in previous years to obtain 
from Congress an appropriation for the same, and to their final success 
in 1879 in securing an appropriation of $250,000 for the purpose. 

Mention was also made that the Executive Committee of the Board of 
Eegents and the Secretary of the Institution, who are charged by resolu- 
tion of the Board of January 17, 1879, with the duty of " carrying into 
eifect the provisions of any act of Congress that might (may) be passed 
providing for the erection of a building for the National Museum,'" had 
organized under the title of " National Museum Buikling Commission." 

Also, you were informed of the action of the Commission in early 
adopting such measures as appeared to it best calculated to realize with 
the least possible delay the intention of Congress in making provision 
for a new building; of the employment of Messrs. Cluss & Schulze as 
superintending architects; of the acceptance by General Meigs of the 
invitation of the Commission to act as its consulting engiueer; and of 
the opinions of Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capitol, and General 
Meigs as to the sufiQcieucy of the appropriation for the erection of a 
building in accordance with the plans approved by Congress. Eefereuce 
was also made to the action of the Secretary of the Treasury in detailing 
an oiScer of the Treasury Department to disburse the appropriation, by 
which action the fund was made immediately available. In addition, a 
resume was presented of the active operations in the construction of the 
building whereby you were made aware that ground was broken on the 
17th of April, 1879 ; that the concrete foundations were begun April 29; 
that the brick work of the walls was commenced May 21, and that the 
walls were completed on the 1st day of November. 

Moreover, mention was made of the good fortune of the Commission 
in securing exceediugly favorable contracts, esi)ecially for the brick and 
iron work, previous to the early subsequent rapid advance in the prices 

167 



168 EEPORT OF BUILDING COMMISSION. 

of iron and other building materials ; of the fact that the cost of the 
heating apparatus was not included in the estimate of $250,000, and that 
therefore an appropriation of $25,000 for this item had been asked of 
Congress ; and, finally, of the then pending efforts of the Commission to 
settle the question of material for the cases, whether this should be wood 
or iron. 

Besides information upon the points above specified, an ai)pended re- 
port of the architects presented %n interesting technical and descriptive 
record of the i)lan and design of the building and a detailed exhibit of 
the expenditures on account of construction to the close of the year 1879. 
In the present report, therefore, it is only necessary for the Commis- 
sion to review the operations of the year just ended. 

The iron work of the roofs was satisfactorily completed by the latter 
part of March, and the tin work and slating early in April. 

The i)lastering, which was done partly by day's work and partly under 
contract, was begun early in March and finished by the latter part of 
July. The plaster of the slate roofs is laid directly on the slate, and that 
of the low, flat roofs on gratings fastened between the iron girders of the 
roof and rendered fire-proof by a filling of mortar comjiosed of i^laster 
of Paris and ashes — a form of ceiling suggested by General Meigs. 

Tlie painting and glazing has been satisfactorily done. In the inter- 
est of economy in heating, it was decided to put both an inner and an 
outer glass in the sash of all outside windows. 

The supply-pipes for water and gas were laid by the close of February 
and the work duly insj)ected and approved. 

The wood floors have all been put down, excepting in the four square 
halls. In the four main halls, or naves, and in the rotunda of the dome 
it was originally intended to lay concrete, but owing to urgent remon- 
strances against the use of this material as not being in keeping with 
the architectural beauty and design of the building, Congress has been 
asked for an appropriation of $25,000 to defray the exi)ense of a marble 
or tile floor for these halls. The request for this appropriation was in 
accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of December 9th, 
1880. 

The heating apparatus is also in, and, with the exception of bronzing 
a number of the radiators, Messrs. Baker, Smith & Co. have comi)leted 
their contract for this work. During the recent severe weather the ap- 
paratus was subjected to a test more severe than will be likely to occur 
again for a number of years, and it is a matter of congratulation to the 
Commission, as well as to the contractors, that the work gives entire 
satisfaction. 

A most economical arrangement connected with this heating appa- 
ratus is that of two automatic trajis whereby" the condensed steam is 
again brought to the boilers. While by this arrangement both time and 
fuel for heating fresh water are saved, the fear of a lack of supply of 



EFFORT OF BUILDING COMMISSION. 169 

water to tlie boilers is eliminated, tliat originally used sufficing for at 
least seven days. 

The work of putting in the wires for the burglar-alarm telegraph, 
telephone, and electric clocks and call-bells, which was begun in the sum- 
mer, is now nearly finished. These wires, which are run through under- 
ground trenches, either specially constructed for the purpose or for heat- 
ing-pipes, w ill extend from a room in one of the north towers to each 
window, door, and case in the entire building, and also to the i^olice and 
fire-alarm telegraphs. This electrical arrangement will constitute a val- 
uable feature in the economy' of administration of a structure so immense 
as, and of the peculiar construction of, the new Museum building, since 
it will lessen the necessity for a large corjis of watchmen and attendants, 
the locality of any attempt on the part of designing jiersons to open a 
window, door, or case being at once automatically indicated in the cen- 
tral office, or instrument room, where a watchman will be on duty at all 
hours. 

As the original estimates upon which the appropriation of $250,000 
was based did not include a i^rovision for the expanded system of water 
and gas fixtures and electrical apparatus, an appropriation of $12,500 
was requested therefor and readily secured. 

In addition to the above, an appropriation of $1,000* was secured for 
a sewer to connect with the B street sewer to relieve the building from 
water, which, on account of the inadequacy of the Seventh street sewer, 
during heavy rains, backs up in the pipes and floods the cellars. This 
relieving sewer will be constructed under the supervision of the engi- 
neer of the District of Columbia, Lieutenant Hoxie. 

For fuller information, however, the Board is respectfully referred to 
the appended report of the superintending architects, which also presents 
a detailed exhibit of expenditures. 

During the year past the Commission has met as often as was deemed 
necessary. General Meigs, as consulting engineer, has generally been 
jiresent at the sessions of the Commission, while, as during the previous 
year, his visits to the new building have been frequent and his inspec- 
tion of the work close and critical. 

In closing this report the Commission is happy to state that the build- 
ing, with the erection of which it was charged, is substantially finished, 
and that it hopes at the next annual session of the Board to be able to 
congratulate the Eegents on its entire completion and occupation. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

W. T. SHERMAN, 
PETER PARKER, 
SPEXCER F. BAIRD, 
lisational Museum Building Commimon. 

Washington, January 18, 1881. 

* This has been increased to $1,900 iu accordance with the revised estimates of the 
engineer of the District. 



170 EEPOET OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

EEPOET OF THE SUPERINTENDING ARCHITECTS OF FIRE- 
PROOF BUILDING FOR NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

Washington, D. C, January 1, 1881. 
To the National Museum Building Commission^ Smithsonian Institution^ 

Washington, D. C. : 
Gentlemen : We have the houor to report to you the completion of 
the new building under the appropriations available for the purpose, 
and simultaneously to submit a report of operations on the construction 
of the building since January 1, 1880, the date of our last report. 

The progress of the work was such th^t the plastering of the building 
could be commenced as soon as the state of the weather permitted it, 
in the early i)art of the spring. It was completed by the middle of 
August, and, after this, miscellaneous work for finishing, such as iron 
balconies, railings, and stairways, were put up, all the offices were 
floored and put in readiness for occupation, the cellars were laid with 
asphaltic concrete, the wooden floors of all the outside halls were laid 
upon a solid bed of hydraulic cement-concrete, and a concrete base was 
laid for the floors of the main and square halls. All the numerous de- 
tails of the steam-heating apparatus were attended to so that steam 
could be put on with the advent of the cold weather; and though the 
heavy walls and piers were considerably chilled by long-continued ex- 
jjosure during the early fall and the excessive moisture in the unfinished 
building, a comfortable heat was obtained within a few days and was 
maintained during the coldest days of this unusually severe winter, no 
more than a reasonable amount of fuel being used for heating the vast 
space of about 3,500,000 cubic feet inclosed within the walls and roofs 
of the building. 

The asphalt facing of the floors of the main halls and rotunda, as in- 
tended under the estimates, has not been put on, since with hardly any 
difterence of opinion it was held that nothing less than a chaste tiling- 
would do justice to the building, and j)rovision ought to be made for 
this without delay. On the other hand, much more than an equivalent 
of the cost of this surfacing has been spent on work not included in the 
estimates, but deemed more important for the opening of the building 
at as early a date as possible. 

The approaches to the building, for which always a separate estimate 
is brought before Congress, have been mostly finished under the orig- 
inal appropriation. We may be allowed to state a few of the items not 
originally contemplated, but included in the construction accounts, to 
wit : 

The windows in exposed walls were set with two sheets of 
glass for each i)ane, and an improved skylight for photo- 
grapher was put up at a cost of $1, 965 00 

Three more cellars than originally contemplated were con- 
structed, and annexes to the corner-pavilions, involving 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 171 

expensive fire-proof floors, were fitted up, tlie lofts in the 
corner-pavilious were converted into additional finished 
stories at a cost of. $4, 500 00 

The covered spaces in front of and sheltering the four main 
entrance doors were inclosed by ornamental iron gates 
at a cost of 1, 804 08 

All the brick work of the extensive fayades was oiled and 

penciled at a cost of 2, 750 00 

Terraces were formed to regulate the grades of the ground 

around the building at a cost of 2, 428 00 

There was expended for cut stone on the approaches to the 
main entrance 1 , 280 00 

Total . , 814, 733 08 

The conditions imposed upon us to keep within the appropriations 
have been complied with in good faith. A substantial fire-proof build- 
ing has been completed at a less cost per square foot of the inclosed 
area than that of the temporary buildings erected for the International 
Exhibition in Philadelphia in 1876. 

The i)rinciple adopted to have all the windows in side walls and lan- 
terns glazed with two sheets of glass, having an intermediate air-space, 
has led to favorable results, and it is desirable to extend the same feature 
over the under sides of the roofs in the halls by the introduction of light 
iron ceilings about 1^ inches distant from those i^lastered undersides ; 
the intermediate air-space in this case to be packed with a non-conduct- 
ing fire-proof material, such as mineral-wool or its equivalent. This 
will secure for the building a very pleasant temjierature in summer, 
reduce the expense of heating the huge building in winter, and remove 
any tendency towards condensation on those exposed undersides during 
the rapid changes of temi^erature and hygrometric condition of the 
atmosphere peculiar to this climate and locality. 

Having given a technical description of the design and construction 
of the new building in our last report, we now report specially on the 
theory, practice, and results of warming the building. In consideration 
of the great cubic contents of air inclosed in the building, and the com- 
paratively very few sources of vitiation of the same, the system of heat- 
ing by direct radiation has been adopted. For winter ventilarion the 
spires of eight towers and the lanterns of halls and dome are made 
available whenever necessary, and for summer ventilation a sufficient 
number of improved iron sashes pivoting in iron frames have been 
added and inserted in the windows of the side walls and the lanterns of 
the building. 

The heating coils and radiators are j)laced in the rooms to be warmed 
and heat the air by contact with the radiators; the surrounding walls 
and solid objects absorbing a certain amount of radiant heat and again 
heating the air by contact. 



172 EEPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

To ascertain the demands to be made upon the apparatus for heating, 
the conditions of the building were studied, in order to arrive at the loss 
of heat inside the building for an external temperature of zero and an 
internal temperature of 70° Fahrenheit. This loss of heat is caused by 
the exposed surfaces of the building, which consist of hollow brick walls 
plastered inside, of tin roofs lined with felt and supported by noii-con- 
ductiug fire-proof material plastered inside, and of windows having two 
thicknesses of glass with inclosed air-space. It is increased by an 
amount due to leakages, absorption of heat by the soil, transfusion of air 
by the opening of doors, &c. To allow for contingencies, the required 
heating surfaces resulting from above causes were increased by about 
fifteen i^er cent, and the generating power of steam three times. 

The necessity for such a disproportionate amount of generating power 
Is explained hj the fact that the condensation is enormous when the 
steam circulating j)ipes and radiators are first heated up, because their 
specific heat is very high when compared with that of the air. When the 
circulation is once established, the demand upon the boilers decreases 
to an amount equal to the heat radiated and carried off by the air from 
the heating surfaces, provided that the main circulating (or flow) pipes, 
which are not to act as radiators, but rather as vehicles to carry the 
heat to the most extreme points of the building, are protected by a sufiS- 
cient coating of non-conducting material, which should be provided for, 
the sooner the better. 

It is evident that for such nice adjustments there were no funds 
available so far. 

Continued satisfactory heating by the direct radiating system de- 
mands, with such an extensive apparatus, constant and close attention ; 
otherwise there will be a great waste of fuel in mild weather, and well- 
founded complaint of overheating. 

As the building is heated up, radiators must be shut off until no more 
heating surface is left than is required to balance the loss of heat, which 
in this climate is very variable. The offices require more heat, rela- 
tively, than the halls ; and if, after the building is warm throughout, 
steam were shut down entirely to prevent overheating the halls, as 
would happen in mild weather, the offices could not be occupied for 
want of heat long before the first sensation of coolness appeared in the 
halls. The cause of this is tliat the ratio of cooling surface to space (or 
cubic contents) "is much greater in the case of the small rooms than in 
the halls, which form a huge reservoir of heat, contained in the inside 
walls and objects as well as in the air. 

It is necessary to put the whole force on once a day in order to get 
circulation of steam throughout. In mild weather shut down as soon 
as overheating begins. In extremely cold weather the full force is to 
be kept up continuously. 

It being established by experiment that about 25 per cent, of the entire 
heat absorbed in evaporating the water in the boilers will be restored by 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 173 

returning the water of condensation in the coils to the boilers, at a tem- 
perature of about 175 degrees, instead of heating new supplies of water 
from an average winter temperature of 50^ to the boiling point, special 
efforts were made in this direction. In order to prevent clattering and 
noise the steam-pipes have a fall from the boilers, so that any condensed 
water flows in the same direction with the steam and not against it, until 
points are reached where the steam-pipes are tapped and discharge the 
condensed water into the return pipes, which are started at the extreme 
end or lowest point of the flow-pipes with an adequate fall toicards the 
boilers. 

The extreme length of each of two lines of steam-conducting and re- 
turn water-pipes is about an eighth of a mile. 

To promote the usefulness of the building, these whole systems of 
pipes were buried in large-sized underground ducts. The grade of the 
public sewers does not allow the boilers to be set deep enough for re- 
turning the condensed water to them exclusively by gravitation, as is 
most desirable, hence it is conducted into a receiver located on the floor 
of the boiler-room, from which it is raised by automatic steam-traps lo- 
cated above the boilers. These traps are, firstly, supplied with steam 
from the boilers. They are so constructed that by the movement of a 
lever connected with a float the steam is shut off, when it condenses 
in the traps, causes a partial vacuum, and lifts the water from the re- 
ceiver into the traps by suction. As the ascending water Alls the traps 
it lifts the float, the lever of which gradually opens the steam- valve, 
permits the steam to enter the traps, and at the same time causes an 
equalization of jiressure in the boilers and traps whereby the water, by 
gravitation, flows back into the boilers. To operate these traps no more 
pressure is required than suflQcient to raise the water from the receiver 
to the trap. 

Since immediately after starting the fires the pressure in the boilers 
may be too small, a steam-pump is at hand by which the water is forced 
direct from the receiver into the boilers. This pump works with less than 
two pounds pressure per square inch, and forces either hot or cold water. 
When a fresh sup[)ly of water should be desired and the steam-pressure 
is greater than that in the main water-pipes, the i^ump is connected with 
these mains and the boilers supplied therefrom. Ordinarily the boilers 
are fed direct from the water mains. 

The steam for warming the building is generated in four tubular boil- 
ers of 50 inches diameter and 15 feet length, containing each 72 tubes of 
3 inches diameter. The heat of the fire passes first under the whole 
length of the boilers, then back through the tubes and finally over the 
top of the boiler, giving the greatest possible exposure of surface and 
resulting in the greatest attainable economy of fuel. 

The boilers are connected overhead by steam-pipes of 5 inches diame- 
ter from each, with stop-valves ; these lead into a drum of V2 inches di- 
ameter to which two 8-iuch main steam-pipes are attached, each of which 



174 EEPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

supplies a pipe system warming one-half of the building. Valves are 
placed in those 8-inch pipes, and the whole apparatus is arranged so 
that one, or all, or any number of the four boilers can be used at jjleas- 
ure and steam shut off from either half of the building, or from any de- 
sired number of the radiators. The steam-conducting pipes are gradu- 
ally reduced in size, as the several branches for the supply of the radia- 
tors are taken off until at the ends of the lines at the northeast corner of 
the building, which is most remote from the boiler-room, the pipes have 
but 2 inches diameter. 

The return water-pipes begin at this remote corner with 1^ inch diam- 
eter and are gradually enlarged as they receive the water of condensa- 
tion from radiators and mains until they terminate in the receiver in the 
boiler-room as above described. 

Eising lines of pipes for warming the offices of the second and third 
stories are attached to the horizontal i^iping, with suitable return-and- 
relief and air- valve pipes. 

The best provision is made in all lines of i)ij)es for expansion and con- 
traction by offsets, angles, or expansion joints, as the case requires. 

The horizontal pipes are mainly supported on rollers. All joints of 
pipes and fittings are made without the use of red lead or cement, the 
threads being all tapered and exactly fitted so as to be tight when 
simply screwed together, iron into iron. 

Branch pipes extend out from the main j)ipes, and to these the valves 
and pipes of 204 upright radiators are screwed. These are all finished 
in bronze, and contain in the aggregate 13,G00 square feet of radiating 
surface, which give out the heat generated in the boilers. 

The efficiency of the heating apparatus, though evident, was tested 
by a series of observations made during the coldest weather of Christmas 
week. 

During the daytime, with the outside temperature at an average of 
5° below zero, the interior temperature did not fall below 02^° above 
zero when but three of the four boilers were in use, the pressure of 
steam being not above 12 pounds, and the consumption of coal 7,500 
pounds, for twenty-four hours. 

Observations were also made during the night-time, after all heat had 
been purposely cut off" from the building and the fires banked, with the 
mean external temperature at 11^° below zero, the temi^erature within 
the building did not fall below 48^ above zero. This is a creditable 
result for the yet incomplete provisions taken against losses of heat by 
the exposed surfaces. 

The observation is also most gratifying that there is hardly any dif- 
ference between the temj)erature on the main floor and that of the gal- 
leries and occupied higher parts of the building abutting on the halls. 
Thanks to the prompt and efficient co-operation of Col. Thos. L. Casey, 
the engineer in charge of public grounds, the roads and lawns leading 
to and surrounding the building were speedily adapted to new grades 
and verdure restored. 



EEPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 175 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT. 

The apinopriations made by Congress are : 

For construction of building .^ , $250, 000 00 

For steaui-heating apparatus 25, 000 00 

For electric work, ]3lumbing, &g 12, 500 00 

287, 500 00 
Schedule account of expenditures and of liabilities, January 1, 1881. 

Earthwork : 

Excavation and grading $853 G8 

Forming terraces , 2, 428 50 

83,282 24 

Foundations : 

Concrete 3, 899 02 

Eubble-stone masonry 7, 010 G4 

10,909 66 

Brick- work : 

Bricks 39, 726 98 

Mortar 6, 111 36 

Labor of laying bricks .. 26,068 96 

Centers, sheds, foremen, &c *2, 376 48 

Oiling fronts, material, and labor . „ 2, 753 58 

77,637 36 

Cut-stone work : 

Of building proper . 10, 105 10 

Of approaches 1, 286 32 

11,391 4i 

Wrought and cast iron work : 

Cost of and setting floor-beams 3, 822 81 

Contract for roofs, steps, and railings 37, 368 89 

Anchors, hoop-irons, and miscellaneous work. . 4, 882 60 

Four double entrance gates, including models 

and hanging 1, 804 08 

Models of candelabras 160 00 

48, 038 38 

Galvanized iron work , 6, 784 18 

Eoofing : 

Slate, slating, snow-breaks, &g , 6, 597 65 

Fire-proof gratings under metal roofs 12, 682 27 

Manilla felt 1,145 96 

Copper gutters 1, 169 68 

Tin, labor, and spout-guards 5, 941 87 

27,537 43 

Concreting floors of ofiices and halls 6, 065 29 

Korth vestibule laid with encaustic tiles 134 20 



176 EEPOKT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 

Carpenter work and lumber : 
Window frames and sash, including hanging . . $6, 996 05 

D®ors 2,298 25 

Flooring, sleepers, and miscellaneous lumber . . 4, 847 G2 

Nails, screws, &c 711 36 

Labor 3,59155 

Flagpole, set in place 61 45 

$18, 506 28 

Plastering 16, 781 94 

Glass and ventilators : 

Plate glass 210 67 

Double-thick cylinder 3,302 57 

Ornamental cathedral glass 450 40 

Photographers' skylight 315 00 

Ventilators 444 00 

4, 722 64 

Painting and glazing, including material and labor 0, 677 99 

Plumbing and drainage : 

Connection with main sewer 366 77 

Water supply and closets for building purposes. 516 78 
Terra-cotta sewers, and cast-iron drain pipes for 

roofs 2, 453 08 

Drainage of boiler-room 510 81 

Water-pipe and street- washers 1, 344 96 

Gas-mains, service-pipe, &c 2, 650 44 

Plumbing in office building 509 33 

8,352 11 

Group of statuary on main gable , 2, 035 05 

Miscellaneous expenses : 
Survey of grounds, clearing of site, and repair- 
ing roads 1, 205 55 

Printing, advertising, and photographic expen- 
ses 1,840 12 

Scales, tools, sheds, for various purposes 1, 125 91 

Clerical expenses and watchman 5, 144 60 

Stationery, office furniture, traveling expenses, 
telegrams, and incidentals . . 1, 046 21 

10,362 39 

Construction and superintendence 10, 000 00 

Steam-heating apparatus 17, 268 00 

Brick -work, excavations, &c 113 80 

Electrical apparatus 822 31 

Total 287,422 07 



REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS. 177 

Of this sum there has been actually exi)ende(l $2S;l, 410 (17 

Oiitstaiuliiig- liabilities under agreeinents . - 3, S4S <);) 

Balance available (after meetinii,' all liabilities) January 1, 

1881 - 202 33 

287,500 00 



Add appropriation for s<nver in hands of disbursin,i>' a,i;enr . . 1, 000 00 
Bahmce unexpended (but of which $3,848 is unavailable 

on ac<;ouut of liabilities) 4, 030 33 



Total balance, January 1, 1881, in haiuls of Major nol)bs, 

disbursing" agent 5, 050 33 

We have the honor to be, geutleineu, your most obedient servants 

CLUSS & SCHULZE, 

Architects. 
S. Mis. 31 12 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1880. 



179 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the General Appendix is to furnish summaries of 
scientific discovery in particular directions; occasional reports of the 
investigations made by collaborators of the institution; memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics, whether original and prepared 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and proceed- 
ings ; and briefly to present (as fully as space will permit) such papers 
not published in the "Smithsonian Contributions" or in the "Miscella- 
neous Collections" which may be supposed to be of interest or value to 
the numerous corresi^oudents of the Institution. 

180 



RECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS. 



IXTRODUCTIOX. 

While it has boeu a ])i"()iniiient object of the Board of Rodents of the 
Smithaoniau Institution from a very early date in its history to enrich 
tlie annual report riMjuired of them with seientiti(; memoirs iUustratin.i^ 
the more remarkable and important devehipments in i)hysieal and bio- 
logical discovery as well as the general character of the operations of 
tlie Institution, this purpose has not hitherto l)een carried out on any 
very systematic plan. Believing, hoAvever, that an annual report or 
summary of the recent advances made in the leading dei^artments of 
scientific inquiry would supply a w\ant very generally felt, and wouhl 
be favorably received by all those interested in the diffusion of knowl- 
edge, the Secretary has had prepared by competent collaborators a 
series of abstracts showing concisely the prominent features of recent 
scientific progress in astronomy, geology, physics, chemistry', miner- 
alogy, botany, zoology, and anthropology. Other subjects which might 
])roi)erly have been included, such as those of terrestrial physics and 
meteorology, geography and hydrography, microscopy, &c., as well as 
the more practical toi)ics of agricultural and horticultural economy, engi- 
neering, technology, and industrial statistics have, for the i)resent, been 
omitted, both for want of time in which to have them ])roi)erly digested 
and for want of space to allow them any sufficient presentation. With 
every effort to secure ]>rompt attention to all the more inqxjrtant details 
of such a work, various unexpected delays frequently render it impnic- 
ticable to obtain all the desired reports in each department within the 
time prescribed. In such cases it is designed, if possible, to bring up 
such deficiencies and supply them in subsequent repoits. 

A similar digest, having the title of "Annual Record of Science and 
Industry," prepared under the general editorship of the present Secre- 
tary of the Institution, was commenced in 1871, and ])ublished in a duo- 
decimo torui by the Messrs. Harper, of ]S^ew York.* This work was con- 



*The "Annuiil Record of Science and Industry" was itself a successor to a similar 
year- book entitled "The Annual of Scientilic Discovery" coniinenced in the year l-.'>0 
under the editorshi)> of Mr. David A. Wells, and published by Messrs. Gould and Lin- 
coln, of Boston. The last-mentioned work was satisfactorily continued for sixteen 
years, from 18.')0 to 1865, inclusive, when it was suspended by the appointment of its edi- 
tor, Mr. Wells, to the conimissionership of internal re venue under the United States Treas- 
ury Department. The V crk wab, however, resumed in 1867, under the editorship of 

181 



182 EECORD OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS. 

tinned through eight annual vokimes; but was discontinued with tbe 
A'ohime for 1878. The present undertaking may, therefore, be considered 
as in some sense a continuation of the work published by the Messrs. 
Harper. 

It is scarcely necessary to remark that in a resume of the annual pro- 
gress of scientific discovery so condensed as the present, the wants of the 
specialist in any branch can be but imperfectly supplied; and very many 
items and details of great value to him must be entirely omitted. While 
the student in a si)ecial field of knowledge may occasionally receive hints 
that will be fimnd of interest, he will naturally be led to consult for 
fuller information the original journals and special periodicjals from 
which these brief notices or abstracts have been compiled. 

The contemplated plan of devoting some 250 pages of the annual re- 
port to such a compilation is not designed to preclude the introduction 
into the "General Appendix," as heretofore, of special monographs or 
discussions that may prove interesting to the scientific student. 

Spencer F. Bated. 



Dr. Samuel Kneeland, who condncted it foi- the years 1867, 1868, and 1869. It then 
jiassed under the editorship of Prof. John Trowbridge, for the years 1870 and 1871, 
when it was finally discontinued, and the "Annual Record of Science and Industry" 
took its place. 



ASTRONOMY. 



By Prof. Edward S. Holden. 



INTRODUCTION. 

As the space available for tbe record of astronomical progress is com- 
paratively small, the accounts here given must necessarily be the barest 
summaries, whose chief end is to call attention to work which has been 
done, in order that a reference may be made to more extended papers if 
desired. At the same time it is clearly imi)ossible to give a specific ref- 
erence to each of the papers consulted. 

For such bibliographic information the reader is once for all referred 
to Darboux et HouiiiL's BuUetin des Sciences Mafhematupies et Astrono- 
miques (monthly, Paris), to Nature (weekly, London), to Science (weekly, 
New York), to the Observatory (monthly, London), and to other standard 
journals. Free use has been made of reviews by writers in these and 
other periodicals, particularly of the Record o/^sirowow?/, published by 
Dr. J. L. *^. Dreyer in the Scientific Proceedings of the Eoyal Dublin 
Society. 

NEBULA AND CLUSTECS. 

The Earl of Eosse has published Parts 1 and 2 (O^* to U^ R.A.) of 
the " Observations of Nebulte and Clusters of Stars made with the six- 
foot and three-foot reflectors at Birr Castle from the year 184:8 up to 
about the year 1878" (Trans. R. Dublin Soc, Vol. II). This publication 
(of which the third part, comprising the last ten hours of E.A., is in 
the press) embodies all the work done on nebulte since the erection of 
the six-foot telescope in 1845. In 1850 and 1861 abstracts of the observ- 
ations on more interesting objects appeared in the Philosophical Trans- 
actions, but all these abstracts are given over again in the new i^ublica- 
tion, with the sole exception of the copperplate engravings, to which, 
however, in all cases references are made in the text. Though even now 
not every single note in the observing ledgers is published, nothing has 
been sui>i)ressed which can be of the slightest value or imi)ortance. 
The observations are given in the observer's own words, and the notes 
which were added by Mr. Dreyer while arranging the work for pub- 
lication are easily distinguished by being inclosed in brackets. These 
notes deal especially with questions of identification, and nearly all the new 

nebulae which were found at Birr Castle in the course of years and which 

163 



1 84 ASTRONOMY. 

formed the weak point of Heksohel's General Catalogue, have now by 
re-examination and comparison with D'Arrest's observations been iden- 
tified and their positions determined. The work done during the last 
live or six years (1872-'78) differs in many particulars from the obser- 
vations taken in earlier years, with which the pajjer of 1801 made the 
scientific world acquainted. Most of the more important nebulte having 
been frequently drawn, there was latterly not much to be done in this 
diiection, but another important field was opened up by taking micro- 
metric measures of groups of nebulfe, or of nebula and neighboring stars. 
Into the text have been introduced diagrams of such groups or of a nebula 
and the stars near it, while four plates contain lithographic reproduc- 
tions of more elaborate sketches, which had not already been published 
among the engravings in the former papers. How much more detail is 
given in the new publication than in the paper of 1801 may be seen from 
the circumstance that while the fourteen hours of E.A, in the latter only 
cover 34 pages, in the new paper they extend over 129 pages. 

A series of measurements of all the planetary nebulfe has been com- 
menced with the l"»-inch refractor of the Harvard College Observatory. 

Dr. C. H. F. Peters has lately published in Urania an important 
list of nebulaj found on his ecliptic charts. 

Fliotographs of the Nebula of Orion. — Prof. Hbnby DRAPER, distributed 
in 1880 a large number of photographs of the nebula in Urion, taken by 
means of his 11-inch Clark refractor with an exposure of 51 minutes. 
Stars down to the 10th magnitude were shown and the details of the 
more prominent masses of the central and brightest regions were for 
the first time permanently and automatically registered. The work so 
well begun has been brilliantly prosecuted, and in March, 1881, Dr. 
Draper succeeded in obtaining fine photographs with an exposure of 
140 minutes! These give a much greater extent to the nebulous por- 
tions registered and bring out many details, and what is astonishing 
they show stars whose magnitudes Prof. Pickering has photometri- 
cally determined to be from 14.0 to 14.7 of Pogson's scale. The mini- 
mum vi.sihile of an 11-inch telescope is about 14.2, so that it really ap- 
pears that Dr. Draper has photographed stars which are very near 
the limit of naked eye vision if not actually below it. The mechanical 
l)erfection of the apiiliances which render such feats possible can oidy 
be appreciated by those used to the apparatus furnished by the best 
makers, which is far inferior to that made by Dr. Draper for his own 
use. 

FIXED STARS. 

Fixed stars, catalogues of stars, star charts, double stars, binary stars, 
variable stars, etc. — Decidedly the most important recent contribution of 
observmg astronomy is the "Uranometria Argentina*" of Dr. Gould. 

*"Resultaclos del Observatorio Nacional Argentma." Vol. I, "Uranometria Ar- 
gentina," Buenos Aires, 1879, 4to, with atlas. 



ASTRONOMY. 185 

This is the first astronomical publicatiou of the national observatory of 
the Argentine Eepublic. 

One of the first objects of Dr. Gould, on the establishment of the 
new observatory in 1870, was the making of a nranometry of the sonthern 
shy, which should contain the position and magnitude of every star 
visible to the naked eye at his station. 

The model on which it is made is the celebrated "Uranometria nova," 
of Aegelander, of Bonn, Avhich was published in 1843. The latter 
contains 3,250 stars from the first to the sixth magnitude, which are to 
be seen above the horizon of Bonn. Its magnitudes are expressed in 
thirds of a whole magnitude, and Argelander's scale, so established, 
has served for a standard in all the observations in the northern hemi- 
sphere. Dr. Gould's problem was to extend this enumeration over the 
whole southern sky, keeping accurately to the standard set by Arge- 
LANDER. This is by no means an easy task, as the minrnmm visibile at 
Cordoba was found to be not the CO magnitude, but 7.1; that is, stars 
can still be seen at Cordoba which have less than four-tenths of the 
light of the faiutest of Argelander's stars. This extraordinary trans- 
parency of the atmos])here required the extension of Argelander's 
scale downward, and that this was accomplished successfully is shown 
by a comparison of the magnitudes of all the stars which are common 
to the two uranometries. The mean difference is rather less than one- 
tenth of a magnitude. The method of settling the standard was to 
select from the "Uranometria nova" a belt of stars which had the same 
altitude at Bonn and at Cordoba. The 722 stars of this belt were ob- 
served by the four assistants at the southern observatory (Messrs. Bock 
Thome, Dayis, and Hathaway), and those stars for which their esti- 
mated magnitudes were precisely the same were chosen for standards. 
Thus, a number of stars of each magnitude, as 3.00, 3.33, 3. GO, 4.00, 4.33, 
etc., became types to be constantly referred to. From these types a 
number of others in a zone near the south pole (and hence constantly 
Visible) were conistructed. The iirocess of observation consisted in re- 
ferring each star in the heavens to this set of types, so that its magni- 
tude could be finally determined upon. This was done by the four 
observers independently, but often in duplicate, and so well were the 
standards fixed that each observer's comiJarisons diflVred from the mean 
of all four by quantities very much less than a tenth of a magnitude. 
It should be said that the magnitudes in the southern uianometr}- are 
given to tenths. 

In all there are 10,049 stars visible to the naked eye at Cordoba. Of 
these, 8,198 are as bright or brighter than the 7.0 magnitude, and these 
alone are given in the cj:tialogue and in the maps. Of these 10,000 stars 
more than 40,000 observations were made. In the progress of the work 
quite a number of variable stars were detected, of each of which a full 
historv is given in the notes. Indeed Dr. Gould's firm conviction is 



186 ASTRONOMY 

that "stellar variability is by no means an exceptional phenomenon, 
but that at least one-half of the stars above the 7.0 magnitude vary 
by amounts which careful observation cannot fail to detect." 

An atlas of fourteen charts accompanies the catalogue, and gives an 
exact pictorial representation of the state of the sky at the epoch of the 
work. Besides giving a representation of the isolated stars, the shad- 
ings and gradations of the milky way are given with the greatest detail 
from repeated observations and revisions. By no means the least valu- 
able part of the work is the discussion of the course of the milky way 
throughout the whole sky. The course of the galaxy is now, and only 
now, known with precision. The data of this and preceding uranome- 
tries are discussed by Dr. Gould with reference to the question of the 
distribution of the stars in space, starting from the assumption that, on 
the whole, stars are equally scattered. Dr. Gould finds that there is a 
marked excess of the stars from the first to the fourth magnitude 
Furthermore, he finds that there is in the sky a zone or belt of bright 
stars as marked as the milky way, and that all the bright stars are dis- 
tributed more symmetrically with respect to this belt than with regard 
to the milky way itself. From these facts Dr. Gould concludes that 
"our own solar system forms a part of a small cluster distinct from the 
vast organization of that which forms the milky way." This cluster may 
perhaps be comparable with that of the Pleiades, since by a rough esti- 
mate it would seem to consist of about 500 stars. It is situated nearly 
in the plane of the belt of bright stars. 

jSTo more valuable work than this has been given to astronomy within 
the decade; and it will be a source of pride to Americans to find such 
important contributions coming from one of their countrymen in the 
southern hemisphere, with which the name of Gilliss was already in- 
dissolubly associated. 

There are no marks about the work itself which would show that it 
was done in a community in about the state of Europe during the dark 
ages, and it will add, not to the value of the work, but to the credit of 
the workers, if one remembers that this is strictly the case. 

Dr. AUWERS has published, for the zone committee of the Astronom- 
ische Gesellschaft, an important work, "Fundamental Catalog fiir die 
Zonen-Beobachtungen am nordlichen Himmel." (Leipzig, Engelmanu, 
4to.) This catalogue of 539 stars, on which the places of all the stars 
between — 2° and 4-80° Deck down to the 9th mag. inclusive will de- 
pend, is founded on the following systems of standard places: Pulkova, 
1845 and 1865 ; MS. of Pulkova Observations, 18G9-'74 ; MS. of Bradley's 
Stars from Greenwich Observations 1836-'72 on the system of the first 
7-year Catalogue; Greenwich 9-year Catalogue; Harvard College Ob- 
servatory, vol. X ; Engelmann's Declinations, 18G6-'70 ; Leiden Declina- 
tions, 18G4-'70. 

At the Berlin meeting of the Astronomische Gesellschaft reports on 



ASTRONOMY. 187 

the zone observations were read. The following account is taken from 
Dr. Dreyer's report. Much progress has been made since then. 

o o 

80-75. Kasan. Observations finished, except a few; reductions far 
progressed; printing commenced. 

75-70. Dorpat. Only 920 observations yet to be made; more than half 
the reductions to 1875.0 finished. 

70-G5. Christiania. Zones finished; about 90 per cent, reduced. 

G5-55. Gotha (formerly Ilclsingfors). Zones finished; reductions far 
advanced. 

55-50. • Cambridge, U. S. Observations finished ; reductions progress- 
ing well. 

50-10. Bonn. About 5,000 single observations remain to be made; re- 
ductions far advanced. 

40-35. Lund. Observations commenced in September, 1878 ; the re- 
ductions are progressing with the zones. 

35-5^0. Leiden. Finished. 

30-25. Cambridge (England). About 4,000 single observations to be 
made yet. The mean places are calculated up to the end of 
1874, apparent places to the end of 187G. 

25-20. Berlin. Not yet commenced. 

20-15. Berlin. Finished, but not yet reduced. 

15-10. Leipzig. Zones finished; E. A.'s almost all reduced to 1875.0 
zeros for declinations j)artly computed. 

10-5. Leipzig. Has been commenced. 
5-1. Albany. Observations were commenced in August, 1878. 

+ 1 to - 2. IsTicolajeff. Much interrui^ted by the Eusso-Turkish war. 

A second edition of the Washington Catalogue of Stars has been 
issued. Since the first edition was published in 1873, Professor Yar- 
NALL had accumulated many observations, which he, before retiring 
from the Observatory, embodied in a second edition. Many stars which 
had only been observed once or twice, either in right ascension or de- 
clination, were thus re-examined. The author died suddenly, on Feb- 
ruary 27, 1879, the complete volume only reaching him a few moments 
before his death. 

Dr. EoBiNSON has published "Places of 1,000 Stars, observed at the 
Armagh Observatory." The stars are those of the fainter ones in the 
"Histoire Celeste" (nearly all between Gth and 7.5 mag.), which have 
not been recently observed at other observatories. The instruments at 
Armagh not being optically powerful enough for this work, the mural 
circle was furnished with a new telescope having an object-glass of seven 
inches aperture. The observations were all made hy the Eev. Cn. Faris, 
in the years 18G8-'7G, each star being observed four or five times. Only 
the mean results are given. 

The first volume of the second series of the " Annales de I'Observa- 
toire de Bruxelles" contains an " Uranometrie Geueralo," by M. Hou- 



188 ASTRONOMY. 

ZEAU. During a stay in Jamaica the author resolved to form a new 
Urauometry, which should possess the advantage above all others hith- 
erto pubhshed, that it was to be the work of a single individual, observ- 
ing all the stars in both hemispheres visible to the naked eye within a 
short space of time. He accordingly commenced working on January 
28, 1875, and the work was finished on February 28, 187G. He had first 
prepared maps, on which all the stars were i)lotted down without regard 
to magnitude ; then every region was gone over two or three times, and 
the magnitudes carefully estimated, the six usual classes being used, 
but each class only divided into two halves. The atlas thus formed 
consists of five plates, on which the stars, their letters, the names and 
limits of the constellations (but not their figures), and the milky way 
are depicted. The latter has been attended to with great care, the 
deeper or paler hue of the light-green color rej) resenting greater or lesser 
brightness. The catalogue of stars for 1880 contains 5,719 stars. M. 
HouzEAXJ has examined the distribution of the stars in four wayr, : 1, 
with respect to the solar equator ; 2, with respect to the direction of the 
sun's proper motion ; 3, iierpendicular to this direction ; 4, with respect 
to the milky way. No law whatever was found in the first three ways, 
while the fourth mode of proceeding confirmed W. Struve's conclusion 
that the density of stellar layers parallel to the jjlane of the milky way 
decreases very regularly and gradually towards the poles of the latter. 

Julius Schmidt has, in (continuation of his researches on the colors of 
stars, published an extensive series of color estimations, made chiefly 
with the finder of the Athens refractor, from 1872-'78. Only for Arc- 
turns has he been able, with any certainty, to find a variation of color. 
It is mostly very bright stars he has observed, and he investigates the 
difference in the estimation, according to whether the finder or the re- 
fractor was used, and finds a greater difference the nearer the color is to 
white. 

A " new star" of 8.8 mag. was found in November by Mr. Baxen- 
DELL, according to two Dun Eecht observations in 7'' 34"^ 45^07 -|- 8° 39' 
39". 6 (1879.0), According to Vogel, the spectrum is verj- remarkable, 
with mauy dark bands, especially in the more refrangible part. 

PARALLAX OP STARS. 

Nearly the whole of Part III of the " Astronomical Observations and 
Kesearches made at Dunsink" is devoted to annual i)arallax. The first 
paper contains a discussion of observations of the planetary nebula H. 
IV. 37 from August, 1871, to August, 1872, by Dr. BrIjnnow. The 
nebula has in the center a well-defined point resembling a star of the 
eleventh magnitude. This was compared in declination with a star 
of the tenth magnitude, and the parallax was found to be perfectly in- 
sensible, a result which agrees well with that of a similar series of ob- 
servations by Professor Bredichin, of Moscow. 

A notice of a?i elaborate paper by Dr. Elkin on the paraUax of Alpha 



ASTRONOMY. 189 

Ccniauri must be deferred till the next year, as the paper is not now 
before the writer. 

Anew determination of the parallax of Gl Cygni, by Dr. Ball, forms 
the subject of the next paper. This determination differs from others 
on the same object in one particular, viz, that the preceding' star instead 
of tlie following^ one has been observed. The method of observation 
used is that of differences of declination, and the observ^ations were 
made on thirty-live different nights between July 3, 1877, and June 1, 
1878. The resulting parallax is 0".4G5, in pretty good accordance with 
the results of Bessel (last three months 0".54), Struve (0".o1), and 
AuwEiKs (0".5()). 

A third paper, also b}' Dr. Ball, describes the first results of a series 
of reconnoitering observations in search of stars with a large annual par- 
allax. These observations are only intended to reveal large parallaxes 
(0".7) or more, and each object is only observed twice ;i year with six 
months' interval, when it is 90^ from the sun, and at the two extremities 
of the major axis of the parallactic ellipse. The paper contains the dis- 
cussion of the observations of forty-two objects, chiefly re<l and variable 
stars. The result is that in almost every case the parallax is certainly 
less than 1", and most probably does not exceed 0".5. These objects will 
therefore not be observed any further, but it is Dr. Ball's intention to 
continue this kind of observations. Eis working list contains red and 
variable stars, stars with a large proper motion, aud others chosen for 
various reasons, nearly all north of the 30° parallel. 

According to Herr Geelmuyden, of Ghristiauia, the star Arg. Oeltzen, 
11G77, has a perceptible parallax (A. N". 2237). This star of the ninth 
magnitude has a proper motion of — 0«.507 and -f 0".21. The resulting 
parallax, 0".27 from measures of A a and 0".21 from measures of A') with 
a star preceding, is only considered provisional, but the subject seems 
worth following up. 

DOUBLE STARS. 

In 1841 and 1812 the Pulkova refractor was used for an examination of 
the northern hemisphere in search of double stars. The second p;]-rt of 
the catalogue thus formed embraces systems, the components of which 
are of or above the eighth mag., and the distance between which are 
from 32" to 2'. Most of these objects have never been observed micro- 
metrically, and the series of heliometer measures of some of them, which 
Dr. ScnuR, of Strassburg, publishes in the A. K. 2255-5G, will there- 
fore be of interest, though only comprising a small number of objects. 
Systems closer than 40" were measured by quadruple distances, wider 
pairs by double distances. By means of an artificial pair of stars it was 
found that the position angle had no appreciable influence on the meas- 
ures of distance, and that the two methods of measuring the distances 
showed no constant difference. 

Volume XLIV of the Memoirs of E. A. S. contains a very extensive 
work by Mr. Burnham: "Double-star observations made in lS77-'78, 



190 ASTRONOMY. 

at Chicago, with the 18J-iuch refractor of the Dearborn Observatory, 
comprising: L A Catalogue of 251 New Double Stars with Measures; 
II. Microinetrical Measures of 500 Double Stars." 

Up to a few years ago the Dearborn refractor, with which Claek 
discovered the companion of Sirius in 18G2, was idle. It has, however, 
since, in the hands of Mr. Burns AM, done excellent work. Confining 
himself to the subject of double stars this distinguished observer has, 
in the course of six or seven years, first working with a Cinch, after- 
wards using the 18i inch refractor, made this subject his own to an ex- 
tent that is truly surprising. Though many observations are yearly 
being taken of double stars by a good many observers, the study of 
these important objects is by no means being furthered to the extent 
one should have expected from the vast amount of time and labor ex- 
pended. As Mr. BuRNHAM justly remarks, in the preface to the paper 
we are here considering, many observers have gone on from year to 
year observing over and over again the same familiar stars, of which 
Castor, y Yirginis, e Lyme may be cited as examples. Couples which 
small instruments of three or four inches aperture would show suffi- 
ciently well are thus again and again being observed with fine refrac- 
tors of six or seven inches aperture or upwards, while a very great 
number of stars are hardly ever if at all looked for. " Omit the observa- 
tions of Dembowski and O. Struve and our knowledge of nine-tenths 
of the double stars would not be materially advanced in the last thirty 
years." Mr. Burnham has from the beginning shown that he does not 
follow the ordinary beaten track, and his numerous discoveries of close 
and difficult pairs have proved him to be an unusually sharp-sighted 
and attentive observer. In nine previous lists he had given the places 
of 483 new double stars, mostly rather difficult pairs, which few would 
have discovered with a 6-inch refractor. The i)reseiit (tenth) list of 251 
new objects raises the total number of new double stars discovered by 
Mr. Burnham to 733; of these 251 stars, 75 pairs are less than 1" apart. 
His observations of old double stars embrace chiefly such ones which 
require a large aperture to be brought out well, or which have not been 
recently observed by others. Particular attention has also been j)aid to 
certain difficult pairs discovered by Mr. Alvan G. Clark. 

No. 5 of the publications of the Cincinnati Observatory contains "Mi- 
crometrical Measurements of 1,054 Double Stars from January 1, 1878, 
to September 1, 1879." Though the discovery of new double stars has 
only been considered a secondary object, nearly 200 new pairs have been 
detected during the progress of the work at Cincinnati. The measures 
are all given in full detail and occupy 151 pages; the mean results are 
given separately. 

The systematic errors in measures of double stars have been investi- 
gated by Professor Thiele in a jjaper: "Castor, Calcul du mouvement 
relatif et Critique des observations de cette dtoile double." (Copen- 
hagen, 1879.) The author has chosen Castor iDartly because the orbital 



ASTRONOMY. 191 

motion is slow and can be represented by a simple formula of interpola- 
tion, partly because it lias been very frequently measured by almost all 
observers of double stars. First, three normal places were formed which 
represented the distances and position angles observed since 1815, and 
an angle of position from Bradley's and W. Her.schel'S measures. 
From these and the ratio of the sector to the time, formulae for computing 
distance and position angle as functions of time by means of the eccen- 
tric anomaly were derived and an ephemeris computed from 1718 to 
1900. With this ephemeris all individual observations by every obser- 
ver were compared and the mean error determined for every observer 
within. a period during which he might be supposed not to have changed 
his way of measuring. Every observer is now followed from one period 
to another and the changes in the mean error determined, whereby vari- 
ations in his systematic error reveal themselves. 

Dr. Seeligee has made an elaborate examination of Madler's 
measures (A. N. 2288). Madler's distances appear to be considerably 
less accurate than O. Steuve's, while his position angles do not appear 
to have larger mean errors than those of O. Steuve. 

The most important series of double-star measures published since 
Mensurw micrometricte is that given in Volume IX of the Pulkova Ob- 
servations, comprising the work of Otto Steuve with the 15-inch 
refractor since about 1840. An elaborate introduction details the 
observations of artificial double stars and the method of applying the 
corrections thus obtained to the measures of real stars. Section I is 
devoted to the re-measurement of a large number of the most interest- 
ing of the star« forming the catalogue of the elder Steuve. Section 
II contains the measures of nearly all the stars of the revised edition 
of the Pulkova catalogue of 1S50, and about thirty additional pairs dis- 
covered subsequently {U 1 515 to 54:7). The only other systematic observa- 
tions of these stars were made by the late Baron Dembowski about 
1800. As many of these jjairs are rai)id binary systems, and nearly all 
of them interesting from the closeness and inequality of the components, 
the Pulkova measures, giving earlier epochs, are specially valuable. 

A valuable contribution to the literature of this department, and sec- 
ond to none in practical value to the observer, is Flammaeion's "Cata- 
logue des Etoiles doubles et multiples en mouvemeut relatif certain." 
This work contains a complete list of all double stars the components of 
which have shown any decided change either from orbital or proper 
motion, with all the published micrometrical measures down to 1878, 
arranged in chronological order, and notes as to the character and extent 
of the motion, the most recently computed orbits of binaries, etc. As a 
working list for the practical observer it is specially valuable, since the 
stars which most need observing can be at once selected. 

The " Hand-Book of Double Stars," by Messrs. Ceossley, Gled- 
HiLL, and Wilson, published in 1879, in addition to an extensive cata- 



192 ASTRONOMY. 

logue of binary aiicl other interesting stars by Mr. Gledhill, compris- 
ing altogether some fifteen hundred objects, contains chapters on the 
equatorial and the observatory by Mr. Crossley; on methods of observ- 
ing and tlie instruments which have been used in this work by Mr. Gled- 
HiLL; on micrometers by Mr. Crossley; on the methods of computing 
double-star orbits, analytically and graphically, by Mr. Wilson and Dr. 
DoBERCK, and the bibliography of the subject by Mr. Gledhill. The 
catalogue is conveniently arranged in order of E. A., but the measures 
of each star are placed opposite the names of the respective observers, 
an arrangement far less convenient than a simple chronological one. 
On the whole the work is an excellent one, and contains many valuable 
suggestions to amateurs, not ordinarily found in astronomical books. 

Professor Holden has tabulated the magnitudes and colors of 1G2 
stars which are certainly binary, according to a list furnished by Mr. 
BuRNHAM, and finds that of these the components of 122 binary stars of 
the same color differ in magnitude on the average only 0™- 5, whilst those 
of 40 of different colors differ 2™- 4. The colors and magnitudes are for 
the most part taken from M. Struve's estimations. Professor Holden 
quotes a conclusion by Dr. HuGGiNS and Professor Miller that the 
characteristic colors of stars are due to the absorptive action of their 
atmospheres, and compares it with the two following facts : (1) The color 
of a solid body cooling would as it cooled pass through the shades ichite, 
yellow, orange, red, but not through green, blue, or purple. (2) We do not 
find isolated stars of decided green, blue, or i^urple colors. A few such 
have been recorded, but in most cases erroneously. In general such 
stars are small, and apparently invariably associated with larger stars. 
That is, the isolated stars appear always of the colors which would arise 
in the cooling of solid or liquid masses, and never as if necessarily sur- 
rounded with absoriitive atuiospheres — i. c, never decided violet or 
purple. 

Professor Pickering has published a paper on the Actual Dimen- 
sions of the Fixed Stars, in which the hypothesis that stars areof equal 
intrinsic brilliancy is made the basis of computation. While this hypoth- 
esis is ijerhaps as little objectionable as any general one that can be made, 
it still leads to conclusions which cannot be at once accepted, as has 
been shown by Professor Holden in a paper extending Professor Pick- 
ering's work. 

Variable stars. — For some years it has been generally received that 
the star Alpha JJrsce Majoris jjeriodically changed its color from yellow 
through red to orange, etc., every thirty-two days. This supposed dis- 
covery was made in 1867, by Klein, and has been confirmed, or at least 
not disproved, by several subsequent observers. 

This question is now tolerably well settled by Safarik, who has 
chosen three other stars to observe simultaneously with this. He has 



I 



ASTRONOMY. 193 

shown that the variations in a Ursse are no greater than in the case of 
these three stars, which are pretty certainly constant in color, and he 
gives it as his opinion that a Urste must be considered also as of a con- 
stant color, unless we are willing to admit that all stars are variable in 
tint in short periods of time. This result is of more importance than at 
first sight appears, as we have now no well authenticated case of varia- 
tion of color separate from variation in brilliance. 

Dr. Gylden, of Stockholm, has recently published a mathematical 
investigation, in which he shows the possibility of explaining the ob- 
served variation in the light of stars upon pure mechanical principles. 
He takes, as a basis the idea that the surfaces of such stars are covered 
in parts with a kind of crust or slag^ which gives out less light tlian the 
remaining i^arts of the surface, which are glowing. Further, he sup- 
poses these stars to be rotating on their axes, and he shows that such a 
rotation will account for all the phenomena, particularly as the axis of 
rotation will itself be changed from time to time by the different dispo- 
sition of the floating masses on the surface. It is noteworthy that the 
possibility of such an explanation was first suggested by Sir William 
Heechel. 

THE SUN. 

A new determination of the inclination of the ecliptic is contained in 
the doctor- dissertation by B. F. van de Sandb Bakhuyzen, of the 
Leiden Observatory. The author discusses the declinations of the sun 
observed in Leiden in the years lSG4-'76, and enters into all details re- 
hiting to the instrument used, etc. He finds that the inclination for 
1870 as given in Leverrier's tables should be diminished by about 
0".30. This result agrees well with Oppolzer's inclination for 1815 
brought down to 1870, with a secular diminution as found by means of 
the latest values of the planetary masses. 

A review of the new or modified theory of the constitution of the 
sun, proposed by Dr. Hastings, is necessarily postponed for want of 
the necessary space to detail his arguments. It may be briefly said, 
however, that no theory of the s^^n's constitution previously proposed can 
account for all the facts of both spectroscopic and telescopic observation ; 
and it is claimed by Dr. Hastings with good show of reason that his 
hypothesis does this satisfactorily. It was published in the Aiuerican 
Journal of Science, and will doubtless receive the consideration asked 
for it. 

Sun parallax. — Several determinations of the solar i^arallax have been 
lately published. From his observations of Mars, made at Ascension 
Island in 1877, Mr. Gill finds - = 8".78 (M.N. June, 1879). At the same 
opposition Mr. Maxwell Hall, in Jamaica, made similar observations 
of the displacement of Mars in E. A. (Mem. E. A. S., XLIV.) He used 
an equatorial of four inches ajjerture. Mr. Hall has carefully reduced 
S. Mis. 31 13 



1 94 ASTRONOMY. 

his observations, and the resulting parallax, 8".79, indicates that val- 
uable results may be obtained by this method by small instruments. 

Observations of the decliuation of Mars made in 1877 at Leydeu and 
Melbourne have been used by Mr. Downing to find a value for the solar 
parallax. The result is 8".9G (A. N. 228S). It is remarkable how well 
this agrees with Stone's and Winnecke's results from the opposition 
of 18G2 (8".93 and 8".96). 

Vol. 1, part 3, of the "Astronomical Papers prepared for the use of 
the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac," containing the experi- 
ments upon the velocity of light, made by Master A. A. Michelson, 
U. S. K, has just been published. His method of investigation (an im- 
proved form of Foucault'S method) is described in the section on 
» Physics." 

The final value for the velocity of light in vacuo is 299,944 ± 51 (in 
air, 299,804), or, in round numbers, 299,940 kilometers per second = 
186,380 miles per second, the remarkably small error, ± 51 kilometers, 
being composed of the total constant error in the most unfavorable case, 
and the probable errors of observation. This quantity, i 51 kilometers, 
cannot be said to express the probable error of the determination, in the 
ordinary acceptance of the term ; combining, as it does, accidental errors, 
strictly speaking, and estimated constant errors. 

These experiments were made by Master Michelson at the Naval 
Academy, Annapolis, at private expense, and to him the entire credit 
is due. A new determination of the velocity of light, embodying es- 
sentially the same arrangement, but with more elaborate and expensive 
apparatus, has been completed by Professor Newcoimb, superintendent 
of the Nautical Almanac ; and this combined with a revised constant 
of aberration, will give the best value of the Solar Parallax. 

Transit of Venus December C, 1882. — The Astronomer Eoyal has pointed 
out the best stations to be occupied for observations of the next Transit 
of Venus. 

Ingress accelerated can be well observed in Cape Colony, Africa. Mr. 
Gill will soon determine his longitude telegraphically. 

Ingress retarded should be observed in the West Indies. These longi- 
tudes have been determined already by officers of tbe United States 
Navy. 

Ugress accelerated mnj he observed at the West India stations and 
along the east coast of the United States. 

Egress retarded : Stations in New Zealand are best suited, although 
Australian stations will serve. 

SOLAR eclipses. 

Professor Newcomb has published a paper " On the recurrence of 
Solar Eclipses, with Tables of Eclipses from b. c, 700 to A. d. 2300" 



ASTRONOMY. 195 

(Washington, 1S70, 4to). The theoiy is founded on two remarkable and 
hitherto nnuoticcd cliance rehitious connected -with the Saros. This 
cycle takes account only of the mean motions of tlie Sun and Moon, but 
in consequence of the eccentricity of tlie orbits the Sun may be 2° on 
either side of its mean place, and the Moon 5^. Tlie relative position of 
the two bodies may therefore vary 7° from their mean position at any 
time, and recurring eclipses might be expected to ditler widely from the 
predicted time, or might not occur at all. But, as a matter of fact, this 
is not the case, the irregularities being reduced almost to nothing by 
the following remarkable relations. At the end of a Saros, not only 
are the Sun, the Moon, and the node found nearly in their original rela- 
tion, but the mean anomaly of the Moon happens to have the same value 
to less than 3°, and the mean anomaly of the Sun to about 12°. There- 
fore, not only the mean place of the Moon, but all its larger inequalities, 
will return nearly to their original values at the end of the period. This 
will hold true, not only with respect to the time of the eclipse, but also 
with respect to its character, as the parallax and semi-diameter of the 
Moon must also return nearly to their original values. On account of 
the retrocession of 28'.G in the the argument of latitude in each cycle, 
the corresponding eclipses in successive cycles are subject to a progres- 
sive change. A series of such eclipses commences with a very small 
eclipse near one pole of the earth ; gradually increasing for about eleven 
recurrences, it will become central near the same pole. Forty or more 
central eclipses will then recur, the central line moving slowly towards 
the other pole. The series will then become partial, and finally cease 
altogether. The entire duration of the series will be more than a 
thousand years, and a new series commences on an average at intervals 
of thirty years. All eclipses may therefore be divided into sets, the 
separate eclipses of each set being separated by intervals of one 18-year 
cycle, and extending through sixty or seventy cycles. Moreover, from 
the elements of the central eclipse of each set those of any other of the 
same set may be readily found by applying the changes corresponding 
to the number of intervals Avhich separate it from the central one. This 
circumstance Prof. Newcomb has utilized to form a series of tables 
which give at once the circumstances of any eclipse between b. c. 700 
and A. D. 2300. 

Phenomena attending Solar eclipses. — The whole subject of the charac- 
teristics of solar eclipses is in so undecided a state that even those who 
are most familiar with it are conscious of their incomplete knowledge 
of the data. A general review of the evidence on special points has 
been well nigh impossible. Like all comparatively new problems, the 
difterent branches of the research have been developed in quite an 
irregular way. On some lines of research our knowledge is very con- 
siderable; on others, we have scarcely any trustworthy information. 

This was specially a hindrance in the study of the phenomena of solar 



196 ASTRONOMY. 

eclipses, because it is just here that we may hope for striking advances 
within a few years. And it is necessary, in order to phm our future 
work, to know what has already been settled, and along what lines of 
study results are to be sought. A recent publication of Mr. Eanyard's, 
on the phenomena of " Solar Eclipses," is intended to meet these diffi- 
culties. Mr. Ranyard has collected, in Vol. XLI of the " Memoirs of the. 
Eoyal Astronomical Society " (792 pages, 18 plates, and a great number 
of wood cuts) all the accounts of solar eclipses which have been pub- 
lished from the earliest times up to 1878. Each account is cut up into 
parts, as it were, and the matter of each part is inserted in its proi)er 
chronological order, under one of forty-four he adings, chosen by Mr. 
Eanyard with great care. Each heading constitutes a chapter, and 
the chapters are arranged about in the order in which the phenomena 
of which they treat occur. Thus the chapiters relating to the phenomena 
near first contact have for titles: Chapter YII. "The Cusps of the 
Solar Crescent seen as colored." Chapter YIII. " The Moon seen as red 
before Totality." Chapter IX. "Shadow-Bands; "etc., etc. Perhaps the 
most important chapters are numbered XLI, XLII, XLIII, XLIV: On 
"The Brightness of the Corona," on "Polaroscopic and Spectroscopic 
Observations," and on "Photographs and Drawings of the Corona," 
respectively. The last chapter consists of 238 pages, and contains a 
reproduction of every imi>ortant modern drawing. A very good feature 
of the wood cuts is that the axis of the sun is made vertical on the page, 
and the sun's vertex is marked also. The plates relate to the spectrum 
of the corona, etc., and to the photographs, etc., of the total phase. 
We are glad to notice that due credit is here given to Dr. BusCH, who 
first took a daguerreotyjie of the corona in 1851, at Konigsberg. The 
very varied material contained in the volume is made available by an 
elaborate subject and author index, and the chief problems which Mr. 
Eanyard set to himself are resolved. These were : 1. To give in the 
order of time all of the important observations on each of the main 
topics of study ; 2. To enable the work of any particular individual to 
be examined J and, 3. To enable each solar eclipse to be studied by itself 
if desired. 

The work has required about nine years for its preparation, and is 
practically complete. We have simply to add to the data there given, 
and need never go back of it. In general there is no complete discussion 
of the results to be derived from each chapter, and this reserve seems 
wise. In some cases the necessary conclnsions are pointed out, always, 
it seems, with moderation. It is an unfortunate consequence of this kind 
of semi-bibliograi)hical work that it will be severely criticised. Each 
chapter will appear inadequate to the specialist in the subject of which 
it treats. There can be no doubt but that Mr. Ranyaed has succeeded 
in his most difficult task, and that this publication will forward the 
solution of the most important questions involved, in a very marked 



ASTRONOMY. 197 

way. The work comes at exactly the right time, and satisfactorily fills 
its place. 

A very elaborate paper ou the polarization of the corona, by Dr. 
Schuster, is published in the M. N. for December, 1879. This paper 
shows how combined measures of the polarization at <lifterent distances 
fiom the Sun, and of the decrease in intensity of the total light of the 
corona with increasing distance from the Sun, may inform us in what 
way the scattering matter is distributed in the solar atmosphere, what 
part of the light sent out by the coronals due to scattering matter, and 
whether the latter is projected outwards from, or is falling into the Sun 
from outside. 

Mr. Leonard Waldo has published a rei)ort on the observations of 
the solar eclipse of July, 1878, made at Fort Worth, Texas, by a party of 
which he was the leading member.* An attempt was made to obtain 
photographic evidence of the polarization of the corona by inserting a 
double-image prism between the lenses of a camera. The photographs 
obtained in this way were examined by Prof. Pickerino, who found 
inequalities in them, which, as tar as they go, tend to indicate tangential 
polarization; but in the opinion of Dr. Hastings the evidence is not 
conclusive. The inner corona was seen by Mr. Seagrave about 30^ be- 
fore totality. Mr. Pulsifer, using- a ten-prism spectroscope attached 
to a four-inch Clark refractor, and keeping the slit tangential, observed 
the reversal of the Frauenhofer lines at the commencement of totality. 
From the length of these lines, which only reached one-third across the 
spectrum, the tangential thickness of the reversing layer was found, and 
from this Mr. Pulsifer infers its minimum height above the photo- 
sphere to be 524 miles. The O line was not shortened like the others, 
but extended right across the spectrum. 

The Naval Observatory at Washington, has published the reports 
relating to the total solar eclipses of 1878 and 1880 in a large 4^ 
volume of 41G pp., accompanied by 25 wood cuts of drawings made 
by observers and 30 chromolithographed plates. This important vol- 
ume has been edited by Prof. Harkness, who has provided a com- 
plete index of persons (4 pages) and index of subjects (0 pages), besides 
a table of contents of 9 pages. It is worth while to mention these 
indexes, because their presence seems to be an indication that men 
of science are beginning to avail themselves of devices which have 
long been considered indispensable to even the simplest literary per- 
formance, and which in the nature of things are still more necessary to 
technical and scientific writings. This special work, however, deserves 
a careful review for many reasons, principally in that it is decidedly the 
most important contribution which has ever been made to the literature 
of any single eclipse, not excepting the memoirs of De la Rue, of La- 
MONT, and the report of the Austrian Commission on the Aden eclipse. 

* Cambridge, Mass. (J Wilson and Sou), 1879. 4to. 



198 ASTRONOMY. 

The solar eclipse of 1878 is noteworthy, since it was visible over a large 
l)ortion of civilized country, each part of which it was easy to reach by 
cheap transportation. The Congress of the United States also placed 
the sum of $8,000 at the disposition of the Naval Observatory, which 
was expended in providing the necessary instruments and in placing 
men and instruments in the proper field. The expenses of 27 observ- 
ers — mostly astronomers at various universities or colleges — were paid, 
wholly or in part, from this sum. This governmental action is note- 
worthy in the history of the country, as indicating the means by which 
alone government aid to science can be afforded under our form of ad- 
ministration, and it would seem that the question of the " endowment 
of research," which has been agitating Great Britain, has here been 
quietly solved. The Naval Observatory accounted to the Treasury for 
the money, and the funds were spent in placing its own parties and 
those headed by all the eminent astronomers of the country in the held, 
and under its auspices liberal arrangements with the customs depart- 
ment and the railways were made for the benefit of foreigners. 

To come to the most important particulars of the volume before us: 
It is preceded by the elaborate Instructions to Observers, com [»iled by 
Prof. Harkness, of which it may be said that it is the most complete, 
and on the whole the most satisfactory, which we have. Guided by 
these instructions, the amateur observers prepared their sketches of the 
corona and made their observations. 

In previous eclipses the princii^al point to be noted in regard to such 
sketches has been that each sketch differed so much from every other 
that only a knowledge of the circumstances under which tbey were 
made could allow one to believe that they were representations of the 
same phenomenon. Here, however, so many sketches were made, each 
one readily comparable with the photographs made by the parties of 
Professors Hall, Harkness, and Holden, that for the first time a 
kind of order can be evolved from what has previously been but chaos. 
The photographs serve always as a standard, and it is seen that each 
sketch represents (and exaggerates) one or more special features, the 
other features remaining unnoted. Thus, by combiuhig the whole set 
a very fair general representation can be had. This is one most impor- 
tant lesson. The photographs themselves are of the highest excellence. 
The parties of Prof. Hall and of Prof. Harkness were provided with 
complete outfits, and each secured a series of photographs of exposures 
varying from 3 to 60 seconds. The pictures with the shortest expos- 
ures give the details of the corona near the Sun ; those of longer ex- 
posures giving details furtht^r out. In these latter pictures tbe inner 
corona is much over-exposed, and its details are thus lost ; but by a 
combination of the set the whole can be built up out to the distance 
of 20' from the Sun's edge. 

A single photograph was taken by Prof. Holden's party, which ad- 
mirably supplements the others, as it begins where the others leave 



ASTRONOMY. 199 

ojff and carries the picture of the corona out to 60' from the Sun's limb. 
Thus the pictures made by the Naval Observatory parties cover the 
whole ground, and are far more complete than those of any previous 
eclipse. They are not adequately discussed, however, in the volume be- 
fore us, which is the less excusable as Mr. Eanyard in his recent work 
on Solar Eclii^ses has given a i)ractical example of how such work should 
be done. 

Some idea of the fullness with which these collected reports treat 
nearly everything which can be made the subject of observation may be 
had by a glance at the subject-index. For example, the contacts were 
observed at over twenty stations by more than twenty-five observers. 
Descriptions of the corona are given on thirty-nine different pages, and 
these do not include the thirty or more drawings. Nearly every one or 
the phenomena is attested by more than one observer of the many en- 
gaged. Thus the corona was seen before or after totality at six stations. 
Ten persons swept in the vicinity of the Sun for the discovery of Vul- 
can. Prof. Watson reports the discovery of two planets, Mr. Swift 
that of two different ones, making four in all, seen or suspected. The 
report shows that four persons swept over the place of Watson's (a) 
without seeing any ijlanet there, and four also swept over the place 
of Swift's two, also without seeing them. In all these cases the tel- 
escopes were of adequate power to have shown the objects of Watson 
and Swipt. 

The main results of the eclipse of 1878 may be summed ui) much as 
follows : 

The connection between the activity of the Sun's surface, as evinced 
by the number and size of the sjjots and protuberances, and the nature 
of the coi;ona, has been again shown. The corona in 1878 was far sim- 
pler in general character than those of 18G9 and 1870. It was observed 
to extend to a much greater distance from the Sun in this eclipse than 
in any other, but this is probably due to specially advantageous circum- 
stances. Professors JSTewcomb and Langley both observed the corona 
with the naked eye, extending o*^' or C^ from the Sun's center. There is 
much difference of opinion as to the brightness of this corona; it prob- 
ably was not materially fainter than that of 18G9. Photometric observa- 
tions were made at Pike's Peak upon this point, but there are no earlier 
observations easily comparable. The most important point of diflerence 
between the coronas of 1869 and 1878 was in their specLra. The bright 
lines due to the gaseous jiarts were conspicuous in 1869, while in 1878 
they were so faint as only to be seen by a few observers, though these 
lines were undoubtedly present. A continuous spectrum was seen by 
most spectroscopic observers. The 1474 line was seen at the beginning 
and end of the eclipse, but only a few observers saw it during the whole 
of totality. Prof. EastjMAN traced this line all round the Sun, find- 
ing it equally bright at equal distances from the center, and what is re- 
markable, finding no defect in the brightness of this Line in the points 



200 ASTRONOMY. 

where absolutely no corona was visible to the naked eye or to photo- 
graphs. No new bright lines were visible in the coronal spectrum. A 
new line (K. 534) in the chromosphere was discovered by Prof. EoCK- 
wooD, who, as well as Prof. Young, saw both lines brightly reversed. 
Prof. Barker and others saw the Frauenhofer lines (dark) in the cor- 
onal spectrum ; they were very faint. The polarization of the corona 
was observed by several parties. The photographic observations of Pro- 
fessors Harkness and Wright show it to be radial in direction. Prof. 
Hasting's eye observations give tangential polarization. Such are the 
main facts of observation to be derived from the volume in question. It 
is yet too soon to state the bearing of these facts upon existing theories 
or to deduce any general conclusions from them. 

COMETS. 

The following comets were visible in 1879 : 

A. Brorsen's periodic comet was first seen by Tempel on January 
14, and on February 26 by Tebbutt. It passed the perihelion on March 
30, and was observed till the end of May. It was found more than a 
month earlier than Dr. Sciiulze's ephemeris commenced. 

B. Tempel's periodic comet was first seen by him on April 24, and was 
observed until the end of June. It passed the perihelion on May 7, ac- 
cording to Mr. Raoul Gautier's elements. 

0. Swift found a pretty bright comet on June 16, which was inde- 
pendently discovered by Winnecke on June 21. It was observed till 
August 23. 

D. Palisa discovered a pretty bright comet on August 21, which was 
seen as late as October 12 (the date of the perihelion passage). 

E. Another comet was first seen by Hartwig on August 24. The last 
observation seems to be from September 14. 

The spectrum of Brorsen's comet appeared this year very different 
from what it was in 1868. It consisted of three bands, the central one 
the brightest, and the least refrangible one exceedingly faint. The 
wave-lengths as determined by Young, were468±2, 5L7±1, and 558rt:3. 
The abnormal character of the spectrum in 1868 (v\^hich only one other 
comet, that of Bo relly, c. 1877, has exhibited), has therefore disajj- 
peared, and the comet has now the ordinary spectrum.* 

The following comets were visible in 1880: 

Comet A, 1880, was first seen, probably, at the Cape of Good Hope, 
February 1. It has been usually spoken of as the Great Southern Comet. 
Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cordoba, Argentine Eepublic, says: " It was bright- 
est Februar^^ 7 or 8, when its length was 40° and its. breadth 1A°, but 
its brightness not suj^erior to that of the Milky Way in Taurus.^' An- 
other observer says : "The jiortion of the tail visible was about 34° in' 
length and 2° in width, its long, straight, narrow form resembling the 

* Young, N. xix. 559, Obs. III. 56, Christie N. xx. 5. 



ASTRONOMY. 201 

one of 18-43, which I remember well, although it vras inferior in li-nj^tb 
and brilliancy to that famous comet." February 4 the head of the comet 
was 3 minutes of arc in diameter, as reported by Dr. Gould, who also 
computed the elements of its orbit and found them to agree well with 
those computed by ITind. The elements of the orbit of this comet 
agreed very closely with the one of 1843. They are compared below: 

Hiud, 1880. 

Per. pass January 27, 0,027, G. M. T, 

Long, per , .279 deg. C miu. 8 sec. 

Long, node 4 deg. 1 min. 9 sec. 

Inclination 35 deg. 39 min. 8 sec. 

Per. dist ., ....0.0059390. 

Motion Retrograde. 

Comet 1843. 

Per. pass February 27. 

Long, per 278 deg. 35 min. 1 sec. 

Long, node 1 deg. 20 min. G sec. 

Inclination 35 deg. 39 min. 2 sec. 

Per. dist 0.005511. 

Motion lietrograde. 

IVIr. Hind, in communicating these results to the Astronomer Royal 
of England, says : ''Can it be possible that there is such a coaiet in the 
system almost grazing the Sun's surface, in perihelion, and revolving in 
less than thirty-seven years ? I confess I feel a difidculty in admitting 
it, notwithstanding the above extraordinary resemblance of orbits." 
The api^earauce of this great coinet has again revived the discussions 
of a resisting medium in space. Prof. Oppolzee, of Vienna, has pub- 
lished recently two important papers on this theme. Tn. Bredichin, 
of Moscow Observatory, Russia, has comj^uted the numerical value of 
the repulsive force necessary to produce the enormous tail of this comet, 
and linds it to belong to the same type of those of 1G80, 1744, 17G9. I 
am not aware that any observations by the sjiectroscope were had dur- 
ing the late appearance of this comet. 

Comet B was discovered by J. M. Schaeberle, assistant at the Ann 
Arbor Observatory, April G, and its train was easily seen, and was three 
minutes in length. On the ICtli it was brighter and larger. Elements 
of its orbit were computed by Safford, HoLETScnEK, Bigourdan. 

Martin's elements of this comet are in close agreement with the 
above. 

Comet C is Faye's short-period comet. It was seen by Mr. Com^ion, 
of England, Augnst 2. It was then extremely faint. The periodic time 
of this comet is 7.413. It was found by the aid of an ephemeris pre- 
viously computed. 

Comet D was discovered by Dr. HARTWia, at Strassburg, September 
20, and also independently announced by Prof. Harrington, of Ann 
Arbor, September 30. It was a bright comet, j ust visible to the naked 



202 ASTRONOMY. 

eye. " Prof. Winnecke finds that this comet may be identical with 
the comet of 1382, 1444, and 15G9, as well as that of 1506, and he is led 
to suggest a period of sixty-two and one-third years as probable." 

The spectrum of this comet was observed by Konkoey, Backhouse, 
and YOTTNG-. It gives four bright lines, whose wave-lengths are, re- 
spectively, 5,G09, 5,492, 5,169, and 4,859 tenth-meters. The si)cctrum, 
though faint, was continuous. 

October 7, 11, and 12, the spectrum was examined at Greenwich, and 
was found to consist of the three usual cometary bands, the brightest 
comparing Avell with that of alcohol vai)or and that of the Bunseu-burner 
flame. 

Comet E was discovered by Lewis Swift, of Warner Observatory, 
Rochester, N. Y., October 10. It reached its maximum brightness No- 
vember 16 ; presented an ill-detined disk several minutes in diameter. 
The particular feature of interest attending this telescopic comet is that 
it is identical with comet III of 1869. 

Prof. Feisby, of the United States Xaval Observatory, has also com- 
puted the elements of this comet from observations by the Washington 
transit circle. The perihelion distance of the comet appears to be a 
little greater than that of the earth, and its aphelion is just beyond 
Jupiter's orbit. These planets may greatly disturb its path in the 
future. Prof. Frisby makes its period about five and one-half years. 

Comet F was a small bright telescopic object, one minute in diameter, 
with a distinct central condensation. It was discovered by Dr. Peciiule 
at Copenhagen ; elements were computed by Dr. J. Holetschek. 

Prof. YouNa observed this comet December 18, 19, and 22, and saw 
two faint tails. One direct, as usual, away from the Sun, in nearly 
the opposite direction, and the other roughly toward the Sun, though 
deflected some degrees to the north. The two streamers made an angle 
of 150° with each other. "Each was about thirty minutes long on the 
l&th, and neither was seen after the 22d." * 

The three periodic comets whose orbits have been the most carefully 
examined are Encke's, Winnecke's, and Faye's. Their least distances 
from the Sun are -^^^o, -^q^, {^^^, of the Earth's distance, respectively. 
It is well known that Encke's original researches indicated the exist- 
ence of a resisting medium in space which, by opposing the motion of the 
comet through it, gradually shortened its period of revolution. All of 
Encke's computations were repeated by Dr. von Asten, and his gen- 
eral results confirmed. Dr. Moller, of Lund, executed a like work for 
Faye's comet, and found no such change in its period and the conclu- 
sion was that, granting the existence of a resisting medium, it did not 
extend so far as one and a half times the earth's mean distance. Dr. 
Oppolzer has just concluded a similar investigation for Winnecke's 
comet. He finds that its motion is altered in the same way as that of 
Encke's comet, and the value of the resisting force is found to be almost 



ASTRONOMY. 203 

the same as that found by Encke. Dr. Oppolzer goes further and 
shows that, granting the existence of such a resisting force, its effect 
upon the motion of Faye's comet woukl be so small as to be confounded 
with uncertainties of the computed loerturbations. The question of the 
existence of a resisting medium will be definitively settled by computa- 
tions now in progress upon the other comets of short period. 

THE PLANETS. 

Vulcon (?). — A new attempt to find an orbit in accordance with the 
more or less doubtful observations of dark round spots passing across 
the Sun's disk was published in the A. E". by Here v. Oppolzer. He 
found a system of elements which was in remarkably good accordance 
with the eight observations on which the calculations were founded. 
Watson's observation during the eclipse in 1878 was not among these, 
and the resulting orbit made " Vulcan" at that moment be 7° preceding 
the Sun. A nearly central transit ought to have taken place on March 
18, 1879, but nothing was seen, though many telescopes were directed 
to the Sun that day. 

In No. 2253-54 of the A. N. Dr. C. H. F. Peters has published a 
long article entitled " Some critical remarks on so-called intra- Mercurial 
Planet Observations." In the first part of this article the writer con- 
siders at length the observations made during the eclipse of July 29, 
1878, by Watson and Swift, of two unknown objects southwest of 
the Sun. The fact that the line between the two stars, called a and 
b by Prof. Watson, is almost parallel and equal in length to the line 
between and C Cancri, joined to the small size of the improvised circles 
of the instrument, appears to him to prove beyond doubt that the 
objects seen were nothing but the stars and C Cancri. The constant 
error of about 3^, which, under this supposition, would affect the E. 
A.s of a and b, he exi)lains by the different circumstances under which 
the circle markings were made for the stars and for the Sun ; in the 
former case, in semi-darkness and in a hurry ; in the latter case, in full 
daylight and with leisure. Possibly, also, the markings were made at 
the same side of the wire-pointer, thus creating a parallax of f ° or 3-0 of 
an inch. Mr. Swift's observation is treated more summarily by Prof. 
Peters, who thinks the confusion and successive gradations in his 
statements must deprive every reader of confidence in them. 

To this criticism Prof. Watson has given an indignant reply in Ko. 
2263 of the same journal. He denies flatly that his wire-pointers were 
as easily bent as supposed by Prof. Peters, and feels confident that 
the probable error of 5', assigned by himself, is rather too large than the 
reverse ; the 20' of Prof. Peters he considers perfectly absuid. There 
is only one of Prof. Peters's objections which he did not answer; he did 
not state whether he saw a and Cancri at the same time or not in this 
paper. This seems to be the crucial point of the whole question, and 
Prof. Watson, in his report to the ifaval Observatory, has distinctly 



204 



ASTRONOMY. 



stated this. Mr. Swift has also replied in the A. N. 2277. He had, 
immediately after the eclipse, informed the other observers near him 
that he had seen two objects with sensible (though, he acknowledged, 
£>purious) disks about 3° S. W. of the Sun, 12' apart. Later on he 
changed this estimate to 1' or 8' in a letter to Nature (xviii, p. 539), in 
which he made a curious mistake, putting 8' = 2™. Prof. Peters can 
hardly be blamed for haviug felt suspicious at all this confusion, or for 
having made little of Mr. Swift's comparison of the distance between 
Mizar and Alcor, with the distance between the two unknown objects. 

Venus and Mars. — Dr. Hartwig has published an extremely import- 
ant investigation of the diameters of Venus and Mars from heliometer 
measures by himself. He has also thoroughly discussed previous ob- 
servations, and the following instructive table gives the main results: 

A. — Heliometer. 

i. Prob. Error. Aperture. 

" " luin. 

1820 Brandes -1-093 J-0. 134 7(3 

1847-49 Wichmann -0-436 ' — 158 

1857 Wiunecke —1-088 — IG'i 

18r)l-(i3 Main -1-182 -091 190 

1876-77 Hartwig - —1-233 -057 76 

B. — Double Image Micrometer (Airy). 

i. Prob. Error. Aperture. 

" " mm. 

186-2-C5 Kaiser —0-772 -^-0 -042 189 

1840-52 Main -0-50? — 170 

1873 J. Plummer _ 0-546? — 152 

C. — Rochon's Micrometer. 

i. Prob. Error. Aperture. 

" " mm. 

1810-15 Arago -1-519 -^0 -105 162 

D. — Wire Micrometer. 

i. Prob. Error. Aperture. 

" " mm. 

1833-36 Miicller +0 -651 ^0 -073 97 ' 

1854-57 J. Schmidt j +2 '^]^ ^ "ij[l \ 108* 

1860-64 Miidlor -0 -254 — 244 

1838-39 Galle -0-86 — 244 

1871 Vogel - -2-56 — 293-5 

The negative sign of the constant error for all double image observa- 
tions is very remarkable, and it appears that telescopes of all apertures 
make the diameter as measured in daylight too small, while there does 
not seem to be any law depending on the aperture. 

The adopted value is a mean of the Oxford, Leiden, and Strassburg 
values, 17".552, which is 0".60 and 0".65 greater than the results of ob- 
servations of Venus in transit, by Auwers and Tennant, in 1874. The 
obscured hemisi3here of Venus was repeatedly seen during the obser- 
vations. 

♦Powers, 120 and 90. 



ASTRONOMY. 205 

The diameter of Mars is deduced (for distance 1) to be polar diameter 
= 9".349 ± 0".010 from tlie meau of Akago's, Bessel's, Kaiser's, 
Main's, aud Hartwig's observations. 

Tlie Strassbnrg observations alone gave polar diameter = 9".311; 
equatorial diameter = 9.519. 

]Many good drawings of 3Iars were made in 1877, among wliich those 
of Mr. Green, at Madeira, of Mr. Dreyer, and of M. Niesten, at 
Brussels, deserve especial notice. Mr. Green and Mr. Burton have 
also observed Mars in 1879. 

jSTeither Mr. Green nor any one else in 1877 succeeded in seeing the 
remarkable long and narrow canals depicted in ScniAPARELLi's " Osser- 
vazioni astronomiche e fisiche sull'asse di rotatione e sulla topografia 
del pianeta Marte," Eoma, 1878, 4to; * but M. Terby has pointed out that 
drawings made by Prof. Holden, at Washington, in 1875, contain these 
canals, and that thus their subsequent discovery by M. Schiaparelli 
in 1877 is fully verified. This pai^er, iJublished towards the end of 
1878, contains first a new determination of the direction of the axis of 
rotation, the measures being made by placing the micrometer wire tan- 
gent to the middle of the snow spot. The results were, for September 
27-0. 

Areocentr. Long. I of centre 29-°46G-i-l -0077. 

" Polar Dist. S of spot, G-147±U-123. 

Geoccntr. Angle of Pos. of Axis, 164-90-1-0.10. 

The second chapter contains the determination of the areographio 
position of sixty-two principal j)oints on the surface. From this an 
exact map on Mercator's projection has been constructed, but as only 
two colors are used, blue and white, to represent dark and bright, and 
no shading at all is given, it is rather difBcult to compare this map with 
others. The innumerable "canals," which in all directions cross the 
map, increase this difficulty. Four representations of the disk in ortho- 
graphic projection (Table V), founded on all the drawings made at 
Milan, are very much more adapted to be comi)ared with other maps. 

One of the most important publications of the year is the eleventh 
volume (Part I) of the "Annals of the Observatory of Harvard Col- 
lege," containing Professor Pickering's Photometric Observations 
made with the 15-inch refractor. The author first made experiments 
with a Zollner's i)hotometer and other instruments in which the star is 
compared with an artificial light, but on account of the Avant of simi- 
larity between the real and the artificial star, and the difficulty of ap- 
plying a correction for changes in opacity of the air, which only aflect 
the real star, the use of a lamj) was abandoned, and all comparisons 
were made with some bright star in the vicinity of the object observed. 
All variations in the condition of the air were thus eliminated, both ob- 
jects being equally afiected by it. To insure a comparison free from 

* Of this remarkable work a German translation is about to appear. M. O. Strdvk 
has given a very full account of it in the Vierteljahrsschrift dor Astrouomischen 
Gesellschaft, XIV, p. 22-39 (1879). 



206 ASTRONOMY. 

personal equation or variations due to the observer, it is very desirable 
that the objects shall resemble each other as much as possible. This 
result is secured by bringing the images to be compared close together, 
so that they are both viewed with the same aperture and magnifying 
power,' and the light of both is equally distorted by passing through the 
same lenses and prisms. A detailed description is given of the many 
l^hotometers employed.* 

These photometers could only be used for comparing objects very 
near together, such as double stars or satellites. For somewhat greater 
intervals two achromatic prisms of small angle were placed in front of 
a telescope, covering the central i^art of the object-glass. Two images 
of any object would thus be formed, separated by an interval depend- 
ent on the angle of the prisms, and on their relative positions. 

All the photometers described are open to the objection that the loss 
of light is very great, from 60 to 80 per cent. This was especially felt 
during the observations of the satellites of Mars, and led to the inven- 
tion of another class of photometers. The image of some bright star, 
assumed as standard, passes outside the telescope, and is reflected into 
the field, after having been reduced by some known amount, until it 
equals the tiiint object to be measured. 

The instruments having been described at length in Chapter I, the 
second chapter contains the journal of the observations, while the dis- 
cussions are given in Chapters III and IV. Conjunctions of planets, 
already alluded to above, afforded a good opportunity for comparing 
their relative brightness. The results are : 

Albedo of Saturn , ^r, la a-, Albedo of Jupiter „ ,,/. i « /v^ 

— *"i"i — 1 "f^T = 4.62±0.07 -T-pi — ? -j~-ir-^ = 0,864-0.02. 

Albedo of Mars Albedo of Venus -^ 

A series of photometric measures of all the more conspicuous double 
stars is discussed in Chapter IV. 

Part II of vol. XI of the Annals of Harvard College Observatory con- 
tains the determinations of the brightness of various satellites. In these 
researches Prof. Pickebing had great diflBculties to overcome on account 
of the extreme faiutness of some of the objects whose light was to be 
measured; the results, however, are. of special interest, as aflbrdiug 
some idea of the real size of these minute members of the solar system. 
Prof. Pickering's attention was first directed to the newly discovered 
satellites of Mars, and he devised various new forms of photometer for 
the examination of these faint objects. These photometers are all de- 
scribed in Part I, and the first two chapters of Part II (Chaps. V and 
VI) are devoted to determinations of their constants, by various meth- 
ods. The problem was one of great difificulty, involving the measure- 
ment of a photometric interval as great as that between the Sun and 
the Moon, the planet Mars being several hundred thousand times as 
bright as his satellites. As a direct comparison was impossible, the 
light of the satellite was compared with that received from a small por- 

*Au abstract of this description is given in Nature, XXI, p 23. 



ASTRONOMY. 207 

tion of Mars througli a small bole 1-lOOtli of a millimeter iu diameter, 
i. e., 1-lOOtli of the diameter of IMars, or about 40 miles, the diameter of 
Mars in the telescope beiug- one millimeter. IMncli difficulty was expe- 
rienced iu making such a hole, and it was only after various attempts 
that Prof. Pickering- succeeded in boring suitable holes in a piece of 
j)latinum foil gummed on a glass plate. 

The light of Mars seen through the smallest hole that could be made 
was, after all, much greater than that of the satellite, which must there- 
fore, if its albedo or reflecting power is about the same as that of Mars, 
have a diameter much less than 40 miles. 

The following are the results of comparison with Mars, as well as with 
Saturn and certain faint stars near which the satellites passed : 
Mars=GG7,000xPhobos in 1877; equiv. diam.=o.57 miles. 

Mars=879,000xDeimos in 1877; equiv. diam. =4.9+0.1 miles. 

Mars=550,000xDeimos in 1879; equiv. diam.=6.1±0.1 miles. 

Mars=461,000xDeimos foil. Mars; equiv. diam.=C.7 miles. 

Mars=G73,000xDeimos i)rec. Mars ; equiv. diam.=5.5 miles. 

The equivalent diameter of the satellite is calculated on the assump- 
tion that its albedo is the same as that of Mars. 

It appears, then, from Prof. Pickering's results that Deimos was ap- 
parently much brighter in 1879 than in 1877, and that it was brighter by 
nearly half a magnitude on the following side than on the preceding 
side of its orbit. In support of this Prof. Pickering points out that 
there is a large preponderance of micrometer observations of Deimos on 
the following side, showing that the satellite was more easily seen in 
that part of its orbit. The micrometer measures of Phobos were nearly 
equally distributed. Ko photometric measures were made of this satel- 
lite in 1879. The general result of all the observations is that Deimos 
is about 14,5 magnitudes (on the photometric scale) fainter than Mars, 
and about 0.3 magnitude fainter than Phobos, the equivalent diameters 
of the two satellites being about 7 and 6 miles respectively, correspond- 
ing to 0".010 and 0".009 at mean distance. That is, the satellites are 
fainter than an area of the surface of Mars having a diameter of 0".01 
at distance unity, or 1-lOOOth part of the diameter of Mars. Notwith- 
standing the minuteness of the points of light compared, a difference 
in color was detected between the outer satellite and Mars, Deimos ap- 
pearing to be blue, whilst the artificial star formed by Mars was not^d 
as red. 

The observations of the satellites of Jupiter in Chapter VIII are of 
special interest, from the comparison of equivalent diameters (photo- 
metrically inferred) and the diameters as actually measured. The fol- 
lowing arc the results : 

Satellite I. 11. III. IV. 

Light ratio 1786 2032 1271 3597 

Equivalent diameter 0".873 0".818 1".035 0".615 

Measured diameter 1".0S1 0".910 l".r)37 1".282 

Relative albedo 0.652 0.809 0.453 0.230 



208 ASTRONO^rr. 

The first line gives tlie ratio of the light of Jupiter to that of each of 
the satellites, the last the albedo relative to Jupiter. To obtain the ab- 
solute albedo for each satellite, the relative albedo must be multiplied 
by the albedo of Jupiter (O.GIO). The view that the light of the satel- 
lites is variable is not confirmed by Prof. Pickering's observations. 

A large number of i)hotoinetric measures of the eight satellites of 
Saturn were made in 1877-8, special attention being devoted to the 
variations of light of lapetus, which were found to extend from 40 to 
140 (taking the mean brightness as 100). The following formula was 
found to represent the variations of light : 

L = 100 — 50 sin v + 10 cos 2v, 
where L is the light of the satellite at any longitude v. 

On this formula Prof. Pickering remarks, "The absence of the term 
c cos V shows that if the variation in light is due to unequal brightness of 
the two hemispheres of lapetus, one-half of each will always be turned 
towards Saturn. In other words, it would present to an observer at the 
north pole of Saturn the appearance of a half moon, the semicircle to 
the right being about four times as bright as that to the left. 

" Some doubt is thrown on the term e cos 2v, since the comparisons 
with Saturn do not confirm its presence. Since the value of e is positive, 
it cannot be supposed to indicate that lapetus is elongated in the direc- 
tion of Sat'irn, although a slight elongation of this kind is probably im- 
plied in the assumption that the satellite turns once on its axis during 
each of its revolutions. An elongation sufficient to produce this effect 
might be caused by the attraction of Saturn, but it would be far too 
small to be i)erceptible photometrically. To make e = + 1, the equato- 
rial diameter of the satellite turned towards Saturn should be exceeded 
by that at right angles to it in the ratio of 9 to 11; so great a differ- 
ence does not seem probable. The term e cos 2v could also be accounted 
for by two bright or dark spots on the satellite. A dark spot on one 
side covering less than a hemisphere would also give a variation in light 
closely resembling that given by that in the formula. The most natural 
explanation, however, is that the dark and light portions are irregularly 
distributed on lapetus, like the land and water on our Earth, and that 
one hemisphere is, on the whole, much darker than the other. The 
smaller variations may be assumed to be such that the formula given 
above represents them closely. " 

The following are the equivalent diameters of the satellites in miles 
foundby Prof. Pickering: Mimas 292^9; Encleadus 370±10; Tethys 
570il8; Dione 542±17; Ehea 74oi27; Titan 140G±52; Hyperion 
193±5; lapetus, mean 4SGi4, max, 574, min. 307. 

The satellites of Uranus and Xeptune have the following equivalent 
diameters (in miles): Titania 58Gi:lG; Oberon 544il5; sateUite of 
IS'eptune 22G0iG0. The large equivalent diameter of the satellite of 
]S'eptune is noteworthy. 

Determinations are also given of the equivalent diameters of some 



ASTRONOMY. 209 

of tlie minor planets, as follows: Pallas 1G7 miles; Juno 94zt4; Vesta 
319ztl0; Antiope 51±3; Branliild 20±3; Eva U±l; Menippe 12±1. 

Though these equivalent diameters must not be accepted as actual 
diameters, they doubtless give a pretty close approximation to the size 
of the smaller members of the solar system, even allowing for a large 
uncertainty in the albedo. It would seem from the Harvard College 
determinations that some of the smaller asteroids are at any rate com- 
parable in size with the satellites of Mars, and the step from these to the 
larger meteorites is not a very large one. The volume also contains pho- 
tometric measures of 103 unequal double stars and some miscellaneous re- 
sults. Great care has been taken throughout to avoid systematic errors 
by varying the methods of observation, but it is certain that some of the 
measures of the light of faint companions to bright stars are in error, as 
shown by comparison of pairs of the same assigned brightness. 

A work of some magnitude has been undertaken by Prof. Pickering 
during the past year in the determination of the light of all the stars 
visible to the naked eye at Cambridge (Mass.) As most of these stars 
would be very troublesome to identify in the field of a photometer 
mounted on an ordinary stand, they are observed in the meridian. The 
photometer consists of a horizontal telescope pointing to the west, and 
having two objectives. By means of two prisms mounted in front of the 
telescope the pole star is reflected into one object-glass, and the star to 
be measured into the other. The cones of light are made to coincide by 
a double-image prism, the extra images being cut off by an eye-stop. 
The star to be measured is thus seen in the same field with the pole star, 
nnder exactly the same conditions. To determine the relative transpar. 
ency of the air at different altitudes, a list of a hundred circumpolar 
stars has been prepared, to be observed at both upper and lower culmi- 
nations. Progressive changes in the light of the pole star may thus also 
be detected and eliminated. 

A Persian IMS. of IJLUGn Beg's catalogue of stars recently presented 
to the Eoyal Astronomical Society has been examined by Mr. Knobel 
(M. jST. XXX, 337), and compared with Hyde's translation. A great many 
discrepancies have (as was also the case with St>Fi) been found to arise 
from certain characters being mistaken for others by the transcriber, 
and Mr. K]n^obel was hereby led to examine those of Ibn Junis's lunar 
eclipses, which Prof. Newcojib had found to be irreconcilable with the 
computations, and he suggests explanations, founded on the assumption 
of similar errors having been made in copying a MS. The magnitudes 
of Ulugh Beg never having been properly translated, Mr. Knobel 
gives a complete translation of the magnitudes as found in the MS. 
under examination. 

Jupiter. — Dr. Schmidt has made a new determination of the time of 
rotation of Jupiter upon its axis, from observations in 1879 and 1880, of 
the red spot upon its disk. His preliminary discussion gives for the 
time of rotation 9h. 55m. 31.42s. 
S. Mis. 31 14 



210 ASTRONOMY. 

On the evening of February 2, Jupiter was passing near the star B. A. 
0. 303 (73 Piscium), and the opportunity was taken at the observatory 
of Harvard College to compare photometrically the third satellite of the 
planet, with the star. Three observers took part in the work, and four 
sets of measurements, each consisting of eight single comi)arisons, were 
made. The result obtained was that the star was fainter than the sat- 
ellite by 0.38 magnitudes of Pogson's logarithmic scale. For the mag- 
nitude of the star we have G.IG by the mean of the available estimates 
on record, and G.17 by the observations made at this observatory with 
the meridian photometer. The resulting magnitude of the satellite is 
5.28 or 5.29, in close agreement with the value, 5.24, found by a very 
different method, in the Annals of the Observatory, Vol. XI, p. 27G. 

Saturn. — A letter from Prof. Hastings, of the Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, puts an important point in regard to the nature of Saturii's rings 
(0, the dusky ring, B, the inner bright ring. A, the outer ring) so briefly 
that it may bo quoted. "The ring C projected on Saturn is dark; if 
the ring were composed of particles having the same a ZZ>ef7o as the planet 
it would appear neither bright nor dark, as it would return to us by re- 
ilection the exact equivalent of what it intercepts. But the albedo of B 
is greater than that of the planet since it is the brightest i)art of tbc 
system. Hence either the material of C is different from that of B, or 
the planet is self-luminous." 

Possible planets beyond Neptune. — Prof. Forbes, of Edinburg, and Mr. 
D. P. Todd, of Washington, have, during the year, published accounts 
of their theoretical proofs of the existence of a planet or planets beyond 
Neptune. Prof. Forbes founds his conclusions upon the statistical dis- 
tribution of the aphelia of comets. These have long been known to be 
groni)ed at certain distances from the sun, with empty spaces so, far as 
known between groups. There is a group of eleven comets whose aphe- 
lia are at Jupiter's mean distance, 5, and another group of six comets 
about iSTeptune's distance, 30. 

Another well marked group of seven comets have aphelion distances 
of about 100. 

The theory of the introdution of comets into the solar system, proposed 
a few years since by Prof. Newton, of Yale College, is made the basis of 
the investigation, and according to this, any comet which is drawn into 
our system from outside and its elements so changed as to make it a 
permanent member of the system must have been so influenced by a 
l)lanet which was somewhere near the aphelion point of this comet's 
orbit at the time of its introdution. 

If the aphelion points of the seven comets of the last group described 
be marked on a globe, it is found that they lie on or near a great circle. 
Prof. Forbes further finds that a planet revolving at a distance 100 in a 
periodic time of 1,000 years might have been at the points so marked 
during the period cf two revolutions of the comets of this group, and from 



ASTRONOMY. 



211 



this and other reasons it is conducled that there is such a planet revolv- 
ing at the distance of about 100, which is at present in E. A. 11'' 40'" X. 
P. D. 870. 

Similar considerations are applied to the next group of comets of 
aphelion distances about 300, and evidence of a disturbing planet at this 
distance also is adduced. Prof. Forbes has applied the method he has 
used to the case of the comets which we know to revolve near Xeptune, 
and, without any knowledge of Neptune's real position, he found that 
the aphelion positions of these comets indicated the existence of a planet 
in longitude 45°. In fact, Neptune is now in longitude 48°. From all 
of which Prof. Fokbes concludes the existence of at least one ultra-]S"ep- 
tunian planet in the position indicated, i. e., for 1880, E. A. ll'^ 40" X. 
P. D. 870. 

The publication of Prof. Forbes's results has caused Mr. Todd, of 
"Washington, to print the results of some investigations he has made in 
the motions of Uranus and Xeptune as compared with Newcomb's tables 
of these planets. Proceeding by a graphical method he was led to the 
conclusion that there must be a planet exterior to Nei)tuue revolving in 
an orbit inclined about 1^°, whose ascending node is at longitude 103^, 
and whose longitude is about 173'^, or, for 1881, March, its position is 
E. A. 11^ 37°^ N. P. D. 870. 

In other words. Prof. Forbes and Mr. Todd, proceeding on utterly 
different data, have arrived at identically the same result. In each case 
the data are insufficient and the exact agreement is accidental. Still 
it is noteworthy. 

It is extremely doubtful if such a planet would be recognizable by 
its disk at this distance from the sun. Still, Mr. Todd made a search for 
it with the 26-inch telescope at Washington, without success however. 
The true method of research would be the accurate mapping of this 
portion of the sky — a work of several years. 

Minor Planets. — The following discoveries were made in 1870 : 



Date. 



1879. 
rebniary 17 
Februaiv 28 
March L'2 - 
April 28 - 
May 17 - . 
May 21- - 
June I'i 
July 9 - - 
July 27- - 
August 7 - 
Si'ptember 23 
September 27 
Octobers - - 
October 13 - 
October 15 - 
October 17 - 
October 21 - 
October 22 - 
November 12 
December 10 - 



No. 



102 
193 
194 
195 
196 
197 
198 
199 
200 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
210 
211 



Name. 



Nausika - 
Amljrosia 
Proene - 
Eurycleia 
Philomela 
Arete - - 
Ampella - 
Byblis- - 
Dynamene 
Penelope 
Chryseis - 
Pompeia - 
Calisto - 



Hersilia 



Dido 



Discoverer. 



Palisa. 

Coggia. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Borrelly. 

Peters. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Peters. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Palisa. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Palisa. 

Peters. 

Palisa. 

Palisa. 



212 



ASTRONOMY. 



Frigga (77) was refouud by Peters on July 17, 1879, after having been 
at large for several years. Prof. Peters suggests that Frigga may be 
variable. 

The discoveries for 1880 were : 



Date. 



No. 



Xame. 



Discoverer, 



1880. 
February 6 
February 17 
March 1 - 
April 7 - - 
April 10 - 
August 30- 
September 4 
September 30 



212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 



Lilaea - 
Oenone 



Palisa. 

Peters.* 

Palisa. 

Knorre. 

Palisa. 



CosKia. 



Palisa. 
Palisa. t 



"• His 4l8t discovery. 



t His 28tli discovery. 



The Jalirhuch for 1882 gives some details regarding the first 173 as- 
teroids, which we condense as follows : Out of these 173, there are 120 
which have been satisfactorily observed at 5 (or more) oppositions, 11 
which have been observed at 4 oppositions, 10 at 3, 14 at 2, and 18 at 1 
only. Of these last 18, some are new discoveries and only _DiA'(?(BoRELLY), 
and Scylla (Pax,isa) are yet to be rediscovered. Jueica (Watson) has 
been lately found, after having been lost six years. 

The Moon. — The lunar photographs taken with the 13-inch reflector at 
the University Observatory, Oxford, have been utilized for finding a 
new value for the semi- diameter of the Moon. The process adopted was 
very nearly the same as that employed by Wichman, and the resulting 
mean semi-diameter is 15' 34" .175 + 0".069. Mr. Neison has, from a 
careful discussion of nearly 1,100 observations, made at Greenwich, Ox- 
ford (Kadcliffe), and Washington, deduced the value — 

15' 33".37+4".10-r(l + 0".70 x aperture in inches). 

This empirical formuUi, he adds, agrees closely with the theoretical 
formula, founded on the assumpution that the differences between the 
semi-diameters obtained with instruments of different aperture vary as 
the diffraction discs and the amount of light. Ai^plyingthe formula to 
a 13-iuch reflector, and adding the photographic irradiation, which Mr. 
Nieson states his experiments indicate to be about -f 0".3, the photo- 
graphic semi-diameter should be 15' 34" .08. 

!N^o papers on the Moon published during the past year exceed in im- 
portance those by Mr. G. H. Darwin on the secular eifects of tidal fric- 
tion on the configuration of a planet and its satellite. In the first paper 
the theory of the deformation of a viscous or imi^erfectly elastic spheroid 
under the attraction of satellites is investigated. Kumericitl calculations 
show that bodily tides in the Earth are at present very small. From this 
point ]\rr. Darwin was led to consider the perturbed rotation of such 
a spheroid, and the reaction on the perturbing bodies. He has in 
the A. K. 2294 given the following summary of the results arrived at 



ASTRONOMY. 213 

through these investigations, which, no doubt, mark the beginning of 
a new era in our knowledge of the past history of the solar system : 

1. The lunar period must have been shorter in the past, and may be 
traced back from the present 27.3 days, until initially the Moon revolved 
round the Earth in from two to four hours. 

2. The inclination of the orbit to the "proper plane" must have 
been larger in the past, and may be traced back from the present 5^ 9' 
until it was G^ or 7°. This was a maximum inclination, and in the 
more remote past the inclination was less and initially" was very small 
or zero. 

3. The inclination of the proper plane to the ecliptic must have been 
greater in the past, and may be traced back from its present 8" until it 
was in very early times about 11° 45'. It is possible that initially this 
inclination was less, and that the 11° 45' was a maximum value. 

4. The eccentricity of the orbit must have been smaller in the past. 
Either at one time it had a minimum value, before which it had a 
maximum value, and, again, earlier it was very small or zero, or else 
the maximum value never occurred, aud the eccentricitj^ has always 
been increasing. The history of the eccentricity depends on the nature 
of the tides in the Earth, but the former of these alternatives seems 
the more i)robable. 

At the present time the Earth rotates in twenty-four hours, its equa- 
tor is inclined at an angle of 9" to a plane which Mr. Darwin calls 
"the proper plane of the Earth" (the mean equator). This proper 
plane is inclined at an angle of 23° 28' to the ecliptic, and its intersec- 
tion with the ecliptic is the equinoctial line. He finds that the fric- 
tional tides in the Earth have caused changes which may be summa- 
rized as follows : 

5. The day must have been shorter in the past, and it may be traced 
back from its present value of twenty-four hours until initially it was 
from two to four hours in length. It was then identical with the 3Ioon's 
Ijeriod of revolution as described in (1). 

G. The inclination of the equator to the Earth's proper ])lane must 
have been larger in the past, and may be tra<ied back from the present 
value of 9" until it was about 2° 45'. This was a maximum iuclination, 
and in the more remote past the inclination was less, and initially it 
was very small or zero. 

7. The inclination of the Earth's proper plane to the ecliptic must 
have been smaller in the past, and may be traced back from its present 
value of 23° 28' until initially it was 11° 45', or, perhajis, somewhat less. 
It was then identical with the proper plane of the lunar orbit, and this 
is true whether or not 11° 45' was a maximum inclination of the lunar 
proper plane to the ecliptic as described in (1). 

The preceding statements may be subject to varieties of detail, ac- 
cording to the nature of the tides raised in the Earth, but the above is 
a summary of what appears to be the most probable course of evolution. 



214 ASTKONOMY. 

The hypothesis which is suggested as most probable is, that the more 
recent changes in the system have been principally due to oceanic tidal 
friction, and that the more ancient changes were produced by bodily 
tidal friction. The initial state of the Moon, nearly in contact with the 
Earth, and always opposite the same face of it, suggests that the Moon 
was i^roduced by the rupture in consequence of vapid rotation or other 
causes of a primeval i^lanet, wliose mass was made up of the present 
Moon and Earth. It is a remarkable coincidence, that the shortest pe- 
riod of revolution of a fluid mass of the same mean destiny as the Earth, 
which is consistent with an ellipsoidal form of equilibrium, is two hours 
and twenty-four minutes ; and that if the Moon were to revolve about 
the Earth with this periodic time, the surfaces of the two bodies would 
be almost in contact with one another. The theory gives an interesting 
explanation of the rapid movement of the inner satellite of Mars. 

OBSERVATORIES. 

The buildings of the new observatory of the University of Strasburg 
have been completed, and a description and plates of them made by the 
director. Dr. Winnecke. The principal instruments are : 

1. A meridian circle by Eepsold ; aperture 1C2 millimeters (6.4 inches). 

2. An altazimuth by Repsold ; aperture 136 millimeters (5.4 inches). 

3. A refractor by Merz ; aperture 487 millimeters (20.2 inches). 

4. An orbit- sweeper by Eepsold ; aperture 163 millimeters (6.4 in- 
ches). 

There are three buildings — one large one containing the residences of 
the astronomers, and two smaller. 

On the main building is the large iron dome, some 39 feet in diameter. 
There are two novelties in its construction: First, the shutters to the 
dome are made in two parts, and extend from horizon to horizon. They 
are opened symmetrically by screws, and leave the whole 180° open at 
once. Secondly, the dome, which weighs about 93,000 pounds, is turned 
by means of heavy weights, which .are wound up from time to time as 
required. A touch from the observer will release these, and their fall 
will turn the dome right or left as required. The working of this dome 
will be attentively regarded, as most of the difliculties of such structures 
appear to have been successfully avoided. In windy situations the 
whole slit must not be opened at the same time, but the princiijle of 
these shutters i)roperly modified will serve even in this case. The dome 
of the new Naval Observatory at Washington is to be of the turret con- 
struction, by which form the difficulties of shutters can be evaded. 

The 27-inch refractor for the Vienna observatory has been finished 
by Mr. Grubb, and is now mounted, and is said to be satisfactory. An 
elaborate description of it is published by Mr. Grubb as a reprint from 
JEngineering. 

Mr. A. A. Common has mounted his new 36-inch silver-on-glass equa- 
torial at Ealing, near London. It is described in " The Observatory," 



ASTROMOMY. 215 

III, p. 1C7, and IMr. Calver lias given a very full account of the pro- 
cess of figuring and silvesing the mirror in the JM. X. for November. 

A new observatory has been founded at Kalocza in Hungary, by Car- 
dinal Archbishop U A YNALD. Dr. Charles Braun is the director, and 
the chief instrument is a 7-inch refractor by Merz. 

Another private observatory has been constructed at Plonsk, about 
37 miles from Warsaw, by Dr. Jedrzejevicz. The principal instru- 
ment is G.4 inch refractor by SxEiNnEiL, to be used for observations of 
double stars. 

The new observatory of Queen's College, Cork, though furnished only 
with small instruments, promises to become one of the most remarkable 
astronomical institutes existing, on account of the unique character 
and refined construction of its instruments. These have been de- 
scribed at some length in the Scientific Proceedings, Eoyal Dublin 
Society, by their constructor, Mr. Howard Gri-bb. The principal 
instruments are an 8-inch equatorial, a 5-inch transit circle with 20-inch 
cii'cles of glass, and a 4-iuch siderostat of novel construction. The tel- 
escope of this instrument points towards the south pole, and carries 
outside the object-glass a plane silvered mirror, which, by the rotation 
of the tube round its optical axis (either by hand or clockwork), will 
Ei keep the object under examination in the center of the field. 
' An observatory is being built on the site of the "Casa degT Inglesi,'' 

on Mount Etna, 9,650 feet above the sea. It is only to be inhabited 
during the months of June, July, August, and September ; and the 12- 
inch lens, by Merz, is then to be brought to C«tania, where there is to 
be a duplicate mounting for it. The observatory is to be devoted to 
solar work, for which its high elevation, according to the experience of 
Prof. TAccniNi, as also of Prof. Langley, makes it especially suited.* 

M. BiscHOFFSHEiMis building anew observatory at MontdesMiguons, 
Nice, of which M. Perrotin, of the Paris Observatory, has been ap- 
pointed the director. A sum of 900,000 francs is to be spent on it. 

It is now more than five years since James Lick, of San Francisco, 
placed in the hands of trustees the sum of $700,000 for the purpose 
of erecting and equipping an observatory near the Pacific coast, which 
was to constitute the Lick Astronomical Departmeut of the University 
of California.! The site originally chosen was at Lake Tahoe; but 
afterwards a series of experimental surveys was made, with a view 
of obtaining the best location in an easily accessible place. Finally, 
Mount Hamilton, in Santa Clara County, about 50 miles southeast of 
San Francisco, was chosen, and negotiations were opened with the 
county authorities for the building of a road to the summit. More than 
1,500 acres of land were secured for the observatory, only a small por- 
tion of uhich is essential to the immediate needs of the buddings, but 

*A plan of the observatory is given in Nature, xix, p. 558. 

tTho following account is borrowed from The Kansas Citi/ ricvieiv of Science and In- 
dustry, Vol. III., p. 482. (December, 1879.) 

3h 



216 ASTRONOMY. 

the residue will be utilized for pasture, and for fuel and water-supply. 
The steep and broken cliaracter of the ground renders a large surface of 
land necessary for the adequate protection of the observatory from fire 
and intrusion. 

In order to observe the transit of Venus in 1882, the Lick trustees 
have secured a 12-inch refractor, made by Alvan Clark & Sons, who 
are to make a 3G-inch refractor later. A 4-inch transit instrument has 
been ordered Irom Fauth & Co., Washington, to be mounted in 1881. 
A plan for the buildings has been made by Professors Newcomb and 
noLDEN, in which the library, study, computing and sleej)ing rooms 
are to be attached to the main building, and the dwelling-houses, etc., 
will be close by, on a shelf of the hill lower down. 

The second volume of Oppolzer's "Lehrbuch zur Bahnbestimmung 
der Kometen und Planeten" has appeared in October last, nearly ten 
years after the first volume. Such a w^ork was indeed a desideratum. 
The book enters into the most minute details, and gives examjjles fully 
worked out to an extent which neither Watson's excellent "Theoretical 
Astronomy," nor the shorter, though in some parts more comprehensive, 
•' Theoretische Astronomie" by Klinkerfues, have attained. 

Mr. Stone having been appointed to the Kadcliffe Observatory, Ox- 
ford, Mr. Gill succeeded him as Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape. 
Mr. Gill purchased Lord Lindsay's heliometer, with which he had al- 
ready done such excellent w^ ork himself, and had it mounted on a new 
stand by Mr. Grubb. He intends to apply this instrument to investi- 
gations on the parallax of some stars having large proper motions, and 
to researches on southern star-clusters. Dr. Elkin, of ISTew Orleans, 
goes to the Cape as assistant to Mr. Gill. 

Prof. HoLDEN has been appointed director of the Washburn Obser- 
vatory at Madison, Wis., in the place of the late Prof. James C. Wat- 
son. 

instruments. 

Alvan Clark & Sons, of Cambridgeport, have now on hand, in all 
the various stages of completion, a most interesting collection of large 
refractors, to say nothing of a number of glasses of 8 inches or less di- 
ameter. 

The lenses of the 23-inch equatorial for Prof. Young, at Princeton, 
are receiving the finishing touches, and have already shown a remark- 
able degree of perfection. The glass was cast hy Feil. The mounting 
for this instrument is well advanced. 

A IG-iuch objective for Prof. Swift, of the Warner Observatory, is 
finished, and the mounting nearly so. This glass is of English manu- 
facture. 

The McCoRMiCK glass of 26 inches aperture, made at the same time 
as the Washington refractor, and intended for the University of Virginia, 
is still in the shop and has been completed for several years, while the 
mounting requires but comparatively little additional work. 



ASTRONOMY. 217 

Two S-iucli refractors have beeu ordered and are partially finished — 
one ordered by Prof. YouNa for the semiuary at South Hadley, and the 
other by Dr. Engelmann, of Leipsic. 

The fliut glass disk for the 30-iuch telescope, ordered by Struct;: for 
the Eiissiau Governraeut, has been received from Feil, and the crown 
glass is ex])ected shortly. The mounting for this will probably be made 
abroad. 

For the Lick trustees a 30-inch refractor is ordered, but it will not be 
completed for several years. A 12-inch equatorial for observing the 
transit of Venus is nearly finished, and orders have been received for a 
5-inch photoheliograph and a smaller comet-seeker. 

In all or nearly all of these instruments the cell of the object-glass is 
arranged so as to separate the lenses by several inches and allow a free 
circnlation of air between them, as well as to afford an opportnnity of 
readily reaching the inner snrfaces of the glass. This device is adopted 
in the hoj^e of bringing the temperature of the glass as nearly as pos- 
sible equal to that of the external air, but it remains to be seen if it is 
really advantageous. 

A new 10-iuch eqnatorial, with an object-glass by jMerz, has been 
presented to the Geneva- Observatory hj its director. Prof. Emtl Plan- 
TAiMOUR. It is to be devoted to observations of the major planets and 
their satellites, of parallax of stars, and of double stars, with occasional 
observations of minor planets. 

ASTRONOMICAL BIOGRAPHY, BIBLIOGRAPHY, ETC. 

The first number of the new International Journal of Astronomy — 
Urania, edited by Drs. Copeland and Dreyer, contains in a very con- 
venient form of 24 demy 4to pages, a number of interesting articles. 
Among others, are the following papers: "Observations of the Spec- 
trum of Comet 1880 d. (Hartwig) at Dun Echt," by Copeland and 
LoHSE. "A New Planetary Nebula," by Dr. Copeland.* "Observa- 
tions of Comets 1880 b, c, and d, at Dun Echt. " Uber die Auflosung 
der Latnbert'schen Gleichung fur Parabolische Bahnen," by Professor 

KLINI03RFUES. 

A special reference should be made to the new arrangement given to 
the tables of the American Ephemeris for 1882 by the superintendent. 
Prof. Newcomb, by which it has become the most convenient of astro- 
nomical almanacs. It should have a short Index added to it. 

"Obituary Notices of Astronomers" is the title of a little book by 
Mr. DuNKiN, in which are collected some obituary notices of Fellows 
and Associates of the li. A. S., mostly written for the annual report in 
the INIonthly Notices, but revised, and some of them partly rewritten. 

"liepertoire des constantes de lAstronomie, par M. J. C. IIouzeau," 
occupies 271 pages in Ito of the Annales de TObscrvatoire Poyal de 
Bruxelles, Nouvelle Serie, T. I. This is a most wonderfully useful pub- 
*Tbis is, liowever, uot a new one, baviug bceu discovered by Mr. Burxiiam, iu 1873. 



218 



ASTRONOMY. 



lication, aud it is hard to uuderstaud how astronomers hitherto have 
managed to get on v/ithoiit such a handbook; it is only a great pity 
that it has not been published in the shai)e of a handbook, but in a 
place where it will not be easily accessible to many people. It gives 
in twentj^ chapters, chronologically arranged, lists of all the different 
values of astronomical constants, which have been published from the 
earliest times and down to 1877, in all cases describing the way of find- 
ing the particular value and adding exact references, by means of which 
any one can find out for himself all about any value. And more than 
that, the titles of the principal books and memoirs relating to any sub- 
ject within the range of the repertory are also given, but completeness 
is not aimed at in this respect. The lists of constants are very com- 
plete and nearly always correct, and critics of M. Houzeau's work must 
first show that thej^ could do better that which is extremely well done. 

M. HouzEAU, who by this excellent piece of work has shown himself 
eminently familiar with astronomical literature, ancient and modern, 
and who already in his "Catalogue des Ouvrages d'Astronomie et de 
Meteorologie qui se trouvent dans les principales Bibliotheques de la 
Belgique" (1878), has given a very convenient bibliography, is i^ublish- 
iug a " Bibliographie generale de PAstronomie" in conjunction with M. 
A. Lancaster, of the Brussels Observatory. This work is to be divided 
into three parts. Books, Memoirs, and Observations, and will be a most 
useful guide in the literature of Astronomy. 

An index to the records of observations, etc., outside the ordinary 
routine work at Greenwich, was printed in the Monthly ISTotices (xxxix, 
p. 505). 

A complete " Subject-Index to the Publications of the U. S. Xaval 
Observatory from 1845 to 1875," 74 pages 4to, by Prof. E. S. Holden, 
is published in the Washington Observations for 187G. 

A list of books and memoirs on celestial spectrum analysis, by M. 
FiEVEZ, appears in the "Annuaire de I'Observatoire de Bruxelles" for 
1879, pp. 255-338. 

To commemorate the centennial of the discovery of Uranus, we have 
"Sir William Hekschel, his Life and Wor^s," by Prof. Holden, of 
the United States Naval Observatory, Washington. 

In 1847 De Morgan wrote: "The clear and powerful results of 
William Herschel's mind lie buried in the Philosophical Transactions, 
inaccessible to the larger i)ortion of those M^ho might learn from them 
to form a true taste in speculative astronomy, and a true notion of the 
state of our knowledge of the fabric of the universe." 

Thirty years after this was written, and two generations after 
Herschel's death, there is still no readier means of studying his 
works than the original volumes of the Transactions, now become rare 
and costly. And what is perhaps more widely noticeable outside the 
circle of special students, there is still no biography of the greatest of 
practical astronomers and one of the most profound philosophers in 



ASTRONOMY. 219 

modern times. The discoveries recited in Herschel's wonderful series 
of memoirs have now become part of the common stock of knowledge ; 
even the most casual reader will care to know how they came about. 

In seeking to supply for special students the first of these great 
wants, by A Synopsis of the Scientific Writings of Hersciiel, 
now iHiblishing by the Smithsonian Institution at AVashington, which he 
has written in connection with Dr. Hastings, Prof. Holden Las been 
led to supply the second also, for the more general reader, in the biog- 
raphy above named. 

An account of Part II of the Catalogns Librorum of the Pulkova ob- 
servatory must be deferred until the next year, this important work 
liaving but just reached this country. 



GEOLOGY. 



By George AV. IIawes, Ph. D., 

Curator in the XationaJ Museum. 



SURVEYS. 



Onr National and State governments have never failed to appreciate 
that the questions to be answered by geological investigation are so 
numerous, and of importance in so many directions, that public aid 
should be given such studies in order to render them systematic and 
more nearly complete. That we remain most ignorant of the structure 
and geological resources of some of the oldest and ablest States is, liow- 
ever, a fact Avhich will attract attention. Tlie investigations that liave 
been made during the past two years have aided much in developing a 
knowledge of the natural history and resources.of wide areas. The State 
of Pennsylvania, for exam^ile, lias, through its geologist. Professor Les- 
ley, published now in all, since 1875, forty-two volumes, seventeen of 
which appeared during the last year. This may serve as an example of 
the zeal with which investigation in thisdepartment of science has been 
prosecuted. As the amount of work produced is dependent upon the 
working force, a statement of some of the more important events that 
have inHuenced the public surveys will be given. 

Before the i)ast year the surveys patronized by the national gov- 
ernment had been pi-osecuted by parties working independently under 
the supervision of different executive departments. Although mucli 
of the work produced by tiiese various surveys was aclcnowledged 
valuable, it was thought by many that if they were consolidated and 
l)laced under one head, this wouhl be of weighty importance in caus- 
ing the work to be more systematically done, and would also prove 
an economical measure. A committee of the National Academy of 
Science, to which this matter was referred, reported to Congress that 
they advised all government surveys to be consolidated under two 
heads : 1st. A survey of mensuration, by which the worlc iireviously 
done by the coast, and geodetic, and land surveys should in the future 
be done ; and 2d. A survey to which should be referred all questions 
relating to the geological structure and natural resources of the public 
domain. This resulted in the organization of the present United States 



222 GEOLOGY. 

Geological Survey, and the withdrawal of appropriations from all pre- 
viously existing surveys. There was much discussion and some feeling 
excited in the selection of a suitable director for this survey, though the 
api:)ointment of Clarence King, who is so well and favorably known for 
his excellent geological work upon the fortieth parallel, produced gen- 
eral satisfaction. He immediately organized a working force for geo- 
logical investigation in the public domain, and although the new survey 
has as yet made no reports, the well-known ability' of the gentlemen who 
are at work in this field is an assurance of many and valuable contribu- 
tions to science. In the mean time the old surveys have been permitted 
to finish their work, and the result is the addition of several volumes to 
the geological literature treating of the Western Territories. 

Several of the State surveys have issued volumes. The work of the 
large and active corps engaged upon the Pennsj'lvania survey has 
been already noticed. If in speaking of this and other work by surveys 
I am unable to give any details of their interesting discoveries on ac- 
count of their number, it is none the less important to draw attention 
to the volumes from which information can be obtained upon the struct- 
ure and resources of some of our most important territory from an 
economic standpoint. 

The Wisconsin survey has published a large and valuable volume, 
which contains work bj" Irving, Pumpelly, Brooks, Wright, ond others, 
and which gives much information concerning Lake Superior formations 
and their constituent roeks. The nature and origin of the Lake Supe- 
rior iron ores and copper ores have always been subjects of much inter- 
est. Foster and Whitney early examined and reported ui)on these de- 
posits, but for many years the testimony of students has been such as 
to convince that, in opposition to tlie views of Foster and Whitney, the 
iron ores are metamorphic strata, and that the copper was introduced 
into the diabases and sandstones by solutions of copper salts and there 
reduced to metal and deposited. Mr. M. E. Wadsworth, however, has 
reopened the question, by having reached the conviction that the iron 
ores are eruptive rocks, as advocated by Foster and Whitney, and that 
the copper also was an accompaniment of the eruption of the diabases. 
Although few are found at present to agree with Foster and Whitney, it 
is thus seen how difficult it is to establish beyond dispute even the sim- 
plest questions of geological structure. The volume on Wisconsin 
geology treats the iron ores as metamorphic schists, and contains a 
great deal of careful lithological and stratigraphical work. 

It will be remembered that the geological survey of California, which 
was long directed by Prof. J. D. Whitney, has been discontinued. 
What the State refused to do has, however, been pushed forward by 
the private enterprise and energy of Professor Whitney, aided by Har- 
vard College. His volumes upon the auriferous gravels of the Sierra 
Kevadas is a very valuable contribution to science, since it treats of the 
gravels from a geological standpoint, and also of the modes of working 



GEOLOGY. 223 

tlioin. The antlior still liolds fast to his opinion tbat the celebrated 
Calaveras skull, which Avas found by him beneath the lavas and jiravel 
of the Pliocene formation, really was deposited with these gravels, and 
is confident that he was not deceived. He is confirmed iu his opinion 
by the ai)pearance of the skull and the testimony of others who have 
examined it. On the other hand Uughes, Dawkins, and others are 
convinced that all evidences of man's existence on the European conti- 
nent before the x>iihTeolithic age are very unsatisfactory, and the age of 
the Calaveras skull is a thing which even those who believe in its antiq- 
uity will wait to see confirmed. 

The Ohio survey has, under the direction of Prof. J. S. Xewberry, pub- 
lished a large volume and an atlas ; Alabama, New Jersey, Minnesota, 
Indiana, Virginia, Kansas, and the Canadian geological surveys under 
direction of their respective heads, have issued volumes and reports 
which render knowledge concerning the structure and resources of these 
areas accessible. 

There has been a considerable amount of work done in the mean time 
l>y individuals. It is to be considered as probable that such work will 
always take high rank in value, because it is undertaken only on account 
of deep personal interest, and is more limited iu extent, and therefore 
often more thorough. Much of the work referred to beyond is the 
result of private enterprise. 

STEATIGRAPHY. 

The great mass of the communications to geological science from this 
country have dealt with stratigraphical geology. The volumes of sur- 
veys to which I have referred have been shown to be so ]umierous that 
I can do no more than to simply indicate that there has been great ])ro- 
gress in the development of detailed knowledge of the stratigraphical 
arrangement all over the country. I may recall in this connection the 
work of Professor Dana, by which the so-called Taconic system of schists 
are shown to belong to the Hudson River i)eriod. The age of this sys- 
tem of rocks, which is of much importance iu Green Mountain geology, 
has been long a matter of dispute, and has been discussed by very many 
able geologists, and this is not the first time that Professor Dana has 
expressed his opinion upou this point. His studies have also led him to 
think that the limestones of Westchester County and New York Island 
and the associated metamorphic rocks are of lower Silurian age, as are 
also the limestones and very likely the associated schists of the Green 
Mountain region. These conclusions, if they are agreed in, must be of 
very great importance, for at the present time it is generally considered 
here and abroad that the presumption is in favor of the Archiean age 
of a thoroughly crystalline schist. Note, for example, the German 
nomenclature of the Archsean formation. Its lowest member is the 
"Urgneiss" formation, and its next member is the " Krystallinische" 
or the "Urschiefer" formation. The recognition of a whole system 



224 GEOLOGY. 

of Siluriau crystalline rocks would certainly produce a radical change 
in the existing opinions of many geologists. It is indeed recognized 
that fossils have been found among crj^stalline rocks, but since the 
lowest formations are crystalline, and the lowest of all are gneisses, 
in the absence of fossils among such rocks they have been calh^d 
Archaean. This has been much to the convenience of the geologists 
and much to the benefit of system. Geologists are slow to change their 
convictions, therefore, on this point, because also some crystalline schists 
of claimed modern age, as, for example, among the Alps, have been 
proved to be not so. The unaided work of Professor Dana must be 
considered as an important contribution to the literature of this subject, 
as also to New England and jSTew York geology. Oile can not but be 
struck by the fact that while the stratigraphy of the fossiliferous forma- 
tions of New York were worked out in such a masterly manner as to 
give the nomenclature to American geology, the crystalline formations, 
both as regards their lithology and their stratigraphy, were left as a 
completely unsolved riddle. 

VOLCANIC PHENOMENA. 

The violent eruption of Mount Etna has been the most important 
volcanic event of the year. This is not because it was so especially 
grand or remarkable, but Etna and Vesuvius have been longer and 
more critically studied than any volcanoes on the earth; and conse- 
quently every minor event connected with these volcanoes, situated so 
near centres of scientific learning, is very important, while an eruption 
of any volcano in distant lands is less interesting only because less 
studied. When early in May, 1879, it w^as announced that Etna was in 
eruption, hours had not elapsed before eminent scientists were en route 
from all parts of Europe. The lavas were not cold before they were 
analyzed and microscopically examined; and the number of independent 
works which have followed one another, treating of the phenomena and 
products of this eruption, has been so large as to show the acute 
expectation with which the operations of this great volcano are watched. 
The material erupted formed very large lava streams, which crystallized 
into an augite andesite. Professor von Lasaulx, of Kiel, has recently 
edited the extensive work of Sartorius von Waltershausen on Etna, 
and has completed it and added numerous observations of his own. 

Vesuvius has also had its eruption, and this has strengthened the 
opinion of some who think that there is some connection between this 
volcano and Etna. Mauna Loa has also had a grand eruption, and the 
volcanic glasses of the Hawaiian Islands have been studied by Cohen. 
But perhaps the most interesting eru]>tion has occurred near us, and 
has been described by Mr. Goodyear and by a commission sent out by 
the Government of Guatemala. In December, 1879, an earthquake 
oc6urred at San Salvador which filled the earth with cracks, broke the 
telegraph wires, shook down hills, produced great land slides, and opened 



GEOLOGY. 225 

a volcanic vent in the midst of a lake, about whicli a large island imme- 
diately proceeded to build itself. The lake is called the Ilopanjio See, 
and is nine kilometers long and seven kilometers wide. The level of its 
waters was raised before the eruption to such a degree as to make a 
flood in the valley of its outlet; and its waters were so heated and im- 
pregnated with snlpliureted hydrogen as to exterminate tlie fish, which 
were very abundant in the lake. The dead flsh were buried with great 
labor and expense, in order to avoid pestilence. The volcanic cone in the 
lake repeatedly grew to considerable dimensions, and was as repeatedly 
blown to j)ieces. This lake is surrounded by volcanic cones, and re- 
minds one of the well-known Laacher See, which, however, has no out- 
let. One looks forward to the time when volcanic phenomena near us 
will receive the critical and continuous study which alone can make 
them of extreme interest. 

Some other European volcanoes beside Vesuvius and Etna have been 
monographed. The work of F. Eouque, aided by the French Govern- 
ment, on Santorin and its eruptions, is oue of the most beautiful and 
complete treatises which has been devoted to a volcano. The topog- 
raphy of the island, the history of all the eruptions, records of which 
exist in history, outlines illustrating the various changes that have 
taken place in the form and extent of the island, and beautiful pictures 
of the microscoj)ic sections, illustrating the mineral composition of the 
various eruj)tions, all combine to make an interesting and instructive 
volume. Santorin is a crescent-shaped island in the Grecian Archipel- 
ago. It has several craters, part of which are submarine. The last 
eruption occurred in January, 18GG, which materially increased the 
size of the island. This, together with the other historic and the pre- 
historic eruptions, are treated in much detail ; and the 440 pages of this 
quarto volume show how greatly science is enriched by careful study of 
small areas. 

LOESS. 

The question of the origin of the loess formations has excited much 
interest. Loess is that very fine-grained calcareous unstratified deposit 
which occupies the river valleys of many rivers, notably the Ehiue. It 
is characterized by the inclusion of the shells of land snails, and by 
concretions of limestone, which take very j)eculiar shape, looking very 
much like potatoes, but liable to take any form. The Germans call them 
loess dolls. This deposit is so firm in its texture that when a cut is 
made through it, its walls will not crumble and wash away, as do the 
walls of ordinary loose material, but for years they will maiiitain their 
vertical surfaces, and preserve marks that are made in them with knives 
or walking sticks. Indeed, names and pictures carved an these loess walls 
form one of the characteristic fossils of the formation. Von Richthofen, 
who knew this formation well, has shown that it, or a like formation, exists 
over large areas in the Asiatic interior, and he has considered that it is 
S. Mis. 31 15 



226 GEOLOGY. 

there a wind deposit, and lie extends this explanation to the loess in the 
valleys. Pumpelly, who has also had opportunity to see these deposits 
in the dry steppes of Asia, has agreed with von Eichthofen, but his dis- 
cussion of the question and the application of the theory to the formation 
in the xMississippi Valley, incited dissent from Winchell, Hilgard, Broad- 
head, and Todd, all of whom are familiar with the formation in the Mis- 
sissippi Valley, and who all agree that no seolian hypothesis will explain 
the accumulation of this material, and they consider that the facts show 
that it was gathered in quiet fresh waters, though salt-water shells are 
not entirely absent. They show that the Mississippi formation is iden- 
tical with that in the Rhine Valley, and possesses all its strange pecu- 
liarities, and that hence this river valley formation was not made of 
drifting sands anchored by grass, such as accumulates upon the steppes 
and deserts. 

DRIFT. 

Another of the great unsettled problems is the origin of the drift 
that is, there still remain iidvoca tes of opposing theories. Credner does 
not hesitate still to refer the drift that covers our northern lands to the 
action of floating ice, nor is he alone in his opinion. Mr. Upham, who 
worked upon the surface geology in New Hampshire, in connection with 
the geological survey, has traced what he considers the terminal 
moraine of the great glacier sheet that covered the northern portion of 
America, almost across the country. He finds this terminal moraine 
stretching along Long Island, westward across Kew Jersey, and thus 
onward. He finds remains as well of a second parallel moraine, far- 
ther to the north, which marks a stage in the retreat of the glacier. 
It is worth remarking that the drift deposits which cover the extensive 
IliTorth German plain have been subjected to much and careful study 
during this period. The character of the bowlders, which are largely 
identi(;al with Scandinavian and Finland rocks, have been much studied, 
and those works which have attracted most attention, notably that of 
Berendt, do not attempt to explain all facts by referring them all to an 
unyielding system. Rather, the facts tend to confirm a belief in the 
alternations of the action of floating ice and glacier, and distinctions 
between the undoubted action of the one and the other are clearly rec- 
ognized. By Mr. Upham, as by most recent students, the eftects in 
America have been mostly referred to the action of an immense glacial 
sheet, with local tributaries, and to the rush of waters attendant upon 
the melting of this body of ice. 

COAL. 

Small deposits of coal have been found in various geological horizons 
lower than the carboniferous. For example, anthracite of silurian age 
occurs on the Isle of Man, and is supposed to have been formed from 
an accumulation of algae. It has been found in the graptolite bearing 



GEOLOGY. 227 

Silurian schists of Scotland, Ireland, Portugal, and also in Xew York 
State. But Inostranzeff has shown that a large bed of anthracite, 
which is worked on a large scale in the Saoneshje region of Russia, be- 
longs to the Huron age. He finds four kinds of carbonaceous mate 
rial, and among these graphite is found. This carries the coal period 
back into the archaean, and is interesting as throwing some light on the 
formation of the graphitic schists. There is, then, no break in the line 
of coal-bearing rocks between the crystalline schists, and the rocks 
bearing tertiary lignites or the recent peat beds. 

The Pennsylvania geologists do not think that position, with reference 
to the disturbing forces that have elevated the Api^alacliian ^Mountains, 
will alone account for the formation of anthracite. The coal deposits 
do indeed become more bituminous to the west, but not in such propor- 
tion as would be expected if disturbance were the cause. The character 
of the strata which cover them, and the depth of burial, are of much 
importance in determining the present nature of coal beds. 

CLAY SLATE. 

The origin of slaty cleavage, except so far as that it results from press- 
ure has never been settled. Sorby mixed micaceous hematite with clay, 
and by pressure he caused these scales all to assume a common posi- 
tion, and he argued that such pressures, acting in given directions, could 
give the structure to any of the schists, and cleavage to the slates by 
simply arranging elongated or flattened particles. This experiment has 
often been repeated with various modifications, and it surely is a fact 
that such i^ressures acting as indicated have produced many features 
that we see in the rocks. Tyndall, however, considered slaty cleavage 
a result of the flattening of particles. Mr. E. W. Hilgard, with agri- 
cultural ends in view, has made exj^eriments upon the flocculation of 
particles, and he shows that fine sediments suspended in agitated water 
tend to flocculate, and form little masses which, acted upou by compres- 
sion, are easily flattened. He, therefore, is strongly of the opinion 
that Professor Tyndall is correct. It may further be said concern- 
ing clay slates, that microscopic study has tended to modify exist- 
ing opinions concerning these. They have been usually considered as 
hardened indurated clays, and classed among fragmeutal rocks. The 
microscope reveals in these rocks, however, crystalline elements which 
Kalkowski has thought he proved to be staurolite, and which have been 
thought by van Werveke and others to be of rutile. The fragmental 
nature of the rock is very difficult to establish, and with these evidences 
of crystalline structure there is no reason to think that most slate is 
anything more than an excessively fine grained kind of mica schist, 
made perhaps by the same forces acting in a less efficient manner. 

CRYSTALLINE SCHISTS. 

I think it can be said that but little progress has been made during 
the past two years in the study of the crystalline schists, so far as the 



228 GEOLOGY. 

theory of their origin is concerned. The same old arguments of the 
metamorphism of sediments are advanced, and they are met by the 
same objections. One would frequently be tempted to think, on read- 
ing treatises that deal with this subject, that the matter was clearly and 
well understood, yet there still remain many able scholars to whom "the 
crystalline schists remain," as Inostranzeft" says, " lithological hiero- 
glyphics." 

Moreover, the study of the rocks themselves has been in a backward 
state. Lithologists have now for years been very busy investigating 
the eruptive rocks, and the result is that volumes of interesting infor- 
mation concerning their nature jvnd composition have been issued, and 
a system of classification devised, which, if not satisfactory to all, is at 
least suited to the wants of the time. No very systematic work has 
thus far been attempted on the schists, and the subject is in a rather 
chaotic condition. Yet it can be said that more studies have been made 
on local groups of schists during the past two years than ever before, 
and many new and interesting varieties have been found, and many facts 
accumulated for future systematization. The following circumstances 
may be considered as interesting, and may indicate the character of the 
work performed. 

Olivine has been shown to be a constituent of some hornblende 
schists by Kalkowsky, and a great group of stratified olivine rocks, 
which occur in Sweden, have been shown by Reusch, and afterward by 
Brogger, to belong to the crystalline schists. The time was when oli- 
vine was considered as especially characteristic of eruptive rocks, but it 
may be considered that it is very far from being confined to this grouj). 

The very abundant occurrence of rutile in the schists has been shown 
by several writers, notably by Saner. This has provoked much discus- 
sion, since some minerals, previously referred to Zircon, are probably of 
rutile. Zircon is, however, sometimes a constituent of the schists. Mr. 
van Werveke thinks the heart-shaped crystals in the whetstone schists 
may be of rutile. 

It has often been assumed that the rocks composed of triclinic feld- 
spar with members of the pyroxene and hornblende group were mostly 
eruptive. Even plainly stratified rocks of this kind have been con- 
sidered as lava overflows or tufts. Many studies have been made 
in the period under consideration which show that such rocks occur 
abundantly among the stratified schists. Benecke and Cohen describe 
such in the neighborhood of Heidelberg, and Rolle a whole series of such 
from the Rhiitic Alps. FoiTque and Levy describe such under the name 
of Amphibolite gneiss; Stelzner such from Lapland, and yet many 
others have been mentioned. It will be remembered that this is a sub- 
ject in which Professors Hunt and Dana have in times past taken much 
interest, and the group of crystalline schists is now generally regarded 
as including rocks of this class. This is an advance. 

Several efforts, notably by A. Sauer, have been made to show that 



GEOLOGY. 229 

bowlders exist in gneiss. The theories as to the original method of 
accumulation of gneisses would be modified by this demonstration. 
There still remains, however, too much diversity of opinion concerning 
what constitutes a gneiss. It is generally known that a purely eruptive 
granite can assume a stratified structure, and many waiters are not clear 
enough in dividing such stratified granites from the group of crystalline 
schists. Little progress will be made till this is done. A gneiss with 
bowlders might be a stratified granite, and granites are liable enough 
to include strange rocks. 

One writer has even urged that gneisses are tuff rocks. He recalls 
that the moon's surface, upon which water has not worked, is entirely 
covered with eruptive rocks and volcanic products, and argues there- 
from that our oldest rocks must have been volcanic. No one knows, 
however, what were our oldest rocks, and it is generally supposed that 
the primitive rocks were early and finally buried beneath their own 
sediments. 

In the mean time Lehmann, Heim, Baltzer, and still others have con- 
tributed to our knowledge of the mechanical distortion, the softening 
and recrystallizing of pebbles and solid rock masses by geological agen- 
cies. 

Schists intersected by the Gotthard tunnel, schists from the Fichtel 
and Eulengebirge, schists in the districts of all the geological surveys 
have been studied and their mineral components determined. Thus 
our knowledge of these rocks has been much extended, and one can 
conclude that although no theories are generally adopted, a very long- 
step has been taken in gathering together details of information, which 
will all be systematized at some future time. 

LITHOLOGY. 

The modern methods of lithological research and the results thereby 
achieved have never received much attention in annual records, nor in 
any popular publications. The dropped thread can therefore scarcely 
be with profit taken uj) as the science stood in 1879. 

Lithology has always been recognized as an important department of 
geology, and the rocks were studied and systematized long ago. Now 
that the methods are so much improved, and question > of composition 
are solved with such ease, it is only a wonder to the modern students 
how the older students found out as much as they did. By the most la- 
borious processes at least, the talented geologists of the past generation 
investigated with great acuteness and often discovered with accuracy 
the partial composition of the rocks. 

The application of the microscope to lithology has now become an old 
feature. The studies by Brewster on the gems and crystals, of Sorby 
on crystals and on the cavities in the minerals of rocks, of Zirkel on the 
basalts, and very many others, have long been classic. These studies 
were made by persons of great experience and keen observational 



230 GEOLOGY. 

powers, who familiarized themselves with the objects that they studied 
and learned to recognize them. The great step in advance, for the aid 
of the new students, was made by Eosenbusch, who applied the optical 
l)rinciples discovered and analyzed by Des Cloizeaux to the examination 
of microscopic crystals as seen in extremely thin sections of rocks. Des 
Cloizeaux Laving deduced the ojitical properties of all commonly occur- 
ring minerals, these same proijerties were sought in the microscopic 
sections, and the determination aided by a microscope adapted to the 
purpose. The limited knowledge of minerals in general and the lack of 
knowledge of optical jtroperties, had been the reason why the suggestion 
of Cordier, who in 1816 recommended the employment of the microscope 
in geology, had never been to any extent followed. During these last 
years a xeiy respectable proportion of the geological literature published 
in Germany has been devoted to microscopical lithology. The study 
has reached a high state of perfection in France, but less of consequence 
has ever been done by the Euglish or Americans. These few words 
may serve as an introduction to the progress of the past two years. 

As one mark of interest in this subject, the change in the editorship 
of perhai)S the most important geological magazine should be noted. 
The '■'■ Jahrhiich fitr Mineralog^ie und PalcE07itologie,''^ which for a half 
century had been conducted by Leonhard, and later by Leonhard and 
Geinitz, has now passed into the hands of a trio of editors, one of whom 
represents mineralogy (Professor Klein, of Gottingen), one paheoutology 
( Professor Benecke, of Strasburg), and one of whom represents inor- 
ganic geology, and to this office Professor Eosenbusch, of Heidelberg, 
the eminent lithologist, was called. These gentlemen have organized a 
corps of assistants in the various lands, and aim to make this periodical 
a general exponent of progress in the subjects that they cover. They 
have issued two volumes during the past year, instead of one as hereto- 
fore, and it is certainly very pleasing to the students to have recourse 
to such an encyclopsedic work now that mineralogical and geological 
literature is so extensively published in a multitude of often inacces 
sible magazines and proceedings of societies. 

The first treatise that has ever been written upon lithology in the 
English language has apjicared. There have heretofore, it is true, been 
translations, notably of von Cotta's work, and little chapters in geology 
have been devoted to lithology ; but von Cotta's book is old, and the 
cliapters in geological works laid claim to few pretensions. The new 
book is by Frank Eutley, and was published in London. To be sure, 
it is very poor, and is mostly abstracted from the writings of Germans, 
but it is beginning to be improved ujjon. 

In this country, within the past two years, interesting miscroscopic 
lithological work has been done by gentlemen connected with the Wis- 
consin geological survey, and some initiative attempts have been made 
upon rocks in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. I have already referred 
to the first, and the latter are hardly in a condition to be reviewed yet. 



GEOLOGY. 231 

One of the most important additions to litliological literature dar- 
ing the i^ast two years is the vohime on Mineralo(/ie Microf/raphiqiie 
Roches Ernptives Francaises, by Fouqae and Levy. The vohnue, though 
large, is, however, simj^ly an introduction, and treats of microscopic 
minerals and methods of investigation. The volume is accompanied by 
a large atlas of li fty- five plates ; this contains lithographic and photo- 
graphic reproductions of sections as seen under the microscope — ])ic- 
tures Avhich in beauty and accuracy have never heretofore been equalled. 

A question extensively handled in this volume is the means for the 
determination of optical properties in chance sections, while the work of 
Rosenbusch aimed more to show how one might find sections cut in defi- 
nite directions, and then determine their optical properties. By a very 
elaborate study, Fouque and Levy deduce what properties sections should 
have which might be cut in a multitude of ways through a crystal of 
a given kind. This subject for the feldspars hnd been earlier opened 
by Professor Pumpelly, in our country. 

Yet however accurate these calculations may be, and how far beyond 
criticism are the results, there are many practical difficulties which will 
cause this method to be applied only to a most limited extent. Much 
more practical and fruitful in results is the method which, though not 
original with him, Thoulet has apj^lied to the mechanical separation of 
rock ingredients. A solution of the iodide of i)otas.sium will dissolve 
mercury iodide, and the resultant fluid is heavier than the more common 
rock ingredients, which consequently will float upon it. By addition of 
water the density of this fluid can be reduced to any desired point, and 
the various constituent minerals that compose the i^owder of a rock 
which is thrown into and mixed with this fluid can be made to settle 
out one by one in a state of purity and fit for analysis. This method 
has already yielded practical results ; one of these is the demonstration 
that rocks are even more comj^lex in mineral composition than had 
been sui^posed. 

This brings us back once more to the question of the feldsx)athic con- 
stituent of rocks, which is of much importance, because feldspar is the 
most generally distributed of all rock constituents. Many methods 
have been j)roposed for their determination. Optical methods usually 
allow potash feldspar to be distinguished from the other sijecies, but 
if more than one of the other kinds be present, optical methods only 
allow the one with greatest obliqity of elasticity planes to be determined. 
Consequently, rocks have been usually determined as being composed 
of one species of triclinic feldspar with other minerals, or of one species 
of triclinic feldspar with orthoclase and other minerals. Fouque, in his 
work on Santorin, indicated that the feldspathic constituent of rocks 
was more complex, and the application of the specific gravity fluid bids 
fair to prove that this complexity is quite general. 



232 GEOLOGY. 

CONTACT PHENOMENA. 

But the determination of the mineral composition of rocks is not the 
highest end of microscopic work. The mere enumeration of the comjjo- 
neuts of various stones can jtrove wearisome in the extreme. When 
the microscope comes to aid in the solution of geological problems, then 
its developments become of the greatest interest. It has been ai)plied 
with greatest success in the study of the changes induced on schists and 
stratihed rocivs by the influence of eruptive masses. The study of these 
so-called contact phenomena had been pursued by students such as 
Daubree and Lossen, in the field, with most satisfactory results, but it 
never became so interesting as when Eosenbusch applied the microscope 
and chemical analysis to the study of the rocks that lay against the gran- 
ites in the Vosges. 

Another remarkable case of contact has during the past year been 
studied and described by myself. In the celebrated Crawford Kotch of 
the White Mountains an immense mass of granite, many square miles 
in extent, comes in contact with an area of hydrous schists. If one ap- 
proacl^es this contact from the side of the granite, most marked changes 
are seen to take place, and changes of such a nature that the granite 
would not be recognized as such in the neighborhood of the contact. In 
fact, it becomes a quartz porphyry. But the microscope and analysis 
prove that it is the same granite only modified in the style of its crys- 
talization by the quicker cooling induced by the cold walls. On the side 
of the schist, however, not merely have the rocks been physically altered 
by the heat of the granite, but they have been materiall^^ altered in com- 
j)osition, and filled with new minerals by reason of an impregnation with 
vapors and solutions brought up and forced far into them by the eruption 
of the granite. The granite upon the contact is mixed with fragments 
of various kinds of schist which were torn from the walls as the molten 
rock ascended, and the granite has in places thrown long arms out into 
the schist. There are seven distinct zones marked by different minerals 
and structural features between the granite and schist, and these zones 
have definite boundaries and owe their origin to the contact. This 
same granite in meeting the schists at another j^oint has induced the 
same series of zones, but the zone of mixed schists and granite is moun- 
tain great, forming, in fact, Kearsarge and Moat Mountains. I speak of 
this study as a stage of progress because contact phenomena have re- 
ceived little attention in America, and the features that determine the 
eruptive nature of a granite have been ill defined. Granite means al- 
most anything in this country, and most of the granite masses, including 
tbis one, have by some been classed among metamorphic rocks. Internal 
structure and lines of stratification, which granites frequently present 
have been considered as evidences of sedimentary and metamorphic ori- 
gin, although it is well known that volcanic products are often stratified. 



GEOLOGY. 233 

Evidences of the origin of many such rocks are to be obtained by the 
study of contact phenomena, and the true line of division between gran- 
ite and gneiss is to be thus deduced. 

EXPEROIENTAL GEOLOGY. 

There has of late years been much less interest felt in speculative ge- 
ology ; or rather, it has been the tendency to bring geological phenomena 
more easily within the limits of common comprehension hy showing that 
analogous effects can be produced by very simple causes that are within 
our control or limits of our observation. The great work by Charles 
Lyell on the principles of geology, in which he showed that the geo. 
logical forces that are daily active about us, if allowed to operate a sufd- 
cient time, would produce the results that are described by geologists 
was a great move in this direction, and students have been ever more 
and more active in attempting to reproduce phenomena seen in nature 
in the laboratory. Daubree, who has been very active in this direction, 
has brought together all his researches into a single volume, which he 
calls " Synthetic Studies upon Experimental Geology." Here one finds 
the results of his celebrated studies on the minerals formed by the hot 
water in the old Roman baths, on tlie minerals formed in sealed tubes 
containing very hot water, and on the production of minerals by pro- 
cesses of sublimation. Here, also, are detailed the results of experiments 
designed to stratify i)lastic materials in imitation of rocks, to joint and 
cleave rocks as it is done in nature, and results of experiments designed 
to form artificially products of the nature and composition of meteorites. 
The book is a fascinating one, and contains in addition many new facts. 

Besides this voluminous work, many contributions have been made 
to exi^erimental geolog}^, some of which are referred to under the head 
of mineralogy. It is proper to notice here the circumstance that 
rouqu6 and Levy have accurately reproduced leucitic lavas like those 
that have issued from Vesu\ius, as well as nephelin-holding and other 
common volcanic rocks. This is interesting, because leucite passes as 
an infusible mineral, and for this reason, and because it is not always 
the first mineral to crystallize in these rocks, the question has been dis- 
cussed whether these lavas result from a purely igneous fusion. So ftir 
as the possibilities of the case are concerned, the question may be 
regarded as settled. 

EOZOON CANADEKSE. 

Perhaps no question in American geology has excited such long and 
bitter controversy, participated in by students who have considered it 
from such varied standpoints, as the question of the organic or inorganic 
nature of this form that has been found in the rocks of various lands. 
Those who have believed in it most fully have been those most familiar 
with its mode of occurrence, and this has always strengthened their 
case, supported as it has been by eminent zoological authority. Yet 



234 GEOLOGY. 

mineralogists have never found it difficult to explain its formation by 
purely inorganic forces. Perhaps the question has never been so near 
settlement as when, shortly ago, Karl Mobius, jirofessor of zoology at 
Kiel, published a most exhaustive study of specimens obtained in part 
from the original describers. He concluded, after careful microscopic 
study and comparison with assumed allied forms, that there is nothing 
to justify the supposition of its organic nature. His opinion was, in- 
deed, not of sufficient weight" to con%'ince those of fixed opposite opinion, 
neither will probably agreement be ever reached in this generation, for, 
as the believers in it say, the evidences are before us and we have but 
to form our judgment. 

SUBMARESTE GEOLOGY. 

Mr. Alexander Agassiz, incidentally' to his work of dredging in the 
deep waters of the Atlantic, has found that shallow waters connect the 
West Indian islands with the South American continent, and this, 
together with the notable fact that the flora and fauna of these islands 
are related to those of Central America, and not to those of the southern 
United States, indicate that in past time these were very probably a 
part of the southern contiuent. This may be considered as another 
addition to geology, gained by the investigation of the ocean's bottom, 
so many of which were gained by the British expeditions. Professor 
Verrill has found tertiary fossiliferous rocks by dredging off the north- 
ern coasts. 

CHEMICAL GEOLOGY. 

The work upon general and chemical geology by Justus Roth, one 
volume of which is now issued, will be a most important addition to 
literature. This first volume treats of the formation and decomposition 
of minerals, of spring, river, and sea water, and their depositions. It 
contains in abstract, with references, all the work which, up to the pres- 
ent time, has been done upon these subjects, and contains, besides, many 
original contributions. Indeed, this work promises in all its parts to 
form a kind of compendium of the science, which is much needed. 

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION. 

The American Association for the Advancement of Science met this 
year at Boston, and the number of papers presented upon geological 
and mineralogical subjects was so large that a permanent subsection 
was organized to accommodate those especially interested in these sci- 
ences. The election also of Professor Brush, one of oui' most distin- 
guished mineralogists, to the office of president of the association is an 
indication of the appreciation by the association of labors in these 
departments. 



PHYSICS. 

By George F. Barker, 
Professor of Physics in the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. 



aENEEAL. 



Great activity lias been manifested in j)liysics during the years 
1879-'80. ISTew and important discoveries have been made, improved 
modes of research have been devised, greater accuracy has been at- 
tained in measures of precision, and more uniform and precise stand- 
ards have been adopted as units. Sainte-Claire Deville and Mascart 
communicated to the International Geodetic Association an elaborate 
paper describing the construction and giving the properties of the new 
platinum-iridium standard of length. The alloy was made by Johnson, 
Matthey & Co., by fusing together 450 ounces of platinum and 55 
ounces of iridium. After suitable working, it was drawn through a 
draw-plate iutp a bar accurately rectangular in cross-section. Its density 
now was 21.51 ; and it was found to contain platinum 89.41, iridium 
10.19, rhodium 0.17, ruthenium 0.10, iron 0.06. This alloy is harder and 
more resistant than platinum, is much more rigid, and has a high elas- 
ticity, its modulus being 21,912,000,000, and its elongation-coefficient 
0.0003. Its coefficient of expansion was in course of determination by 
Mascart, the elaborate preliminary measurements only being described. — 
{Ann. Ghim. Phys., V, xvi, 506, April, 1879.) C. S. Peirce has reported 
progress in the comparison of a wave-length with a meter. Using a 
Eutherford ruled plate of 340^ lines to the millimeter, three complete 
measures of Van der WilUgen's spectrum line No. 16 gave for the angle 
of double deviation as a mean 89^" 54' 19".5 An error of 0".4 would 
make an error of a micron in the length of the meter. Subsequently 
another line near the former one was selected, and a finer plate was 
used. As a mean of six closely accordant measiu'es, the double devia- 
tion was 90° 03' 51".45. One of these plates had been compared with 
all the centimeters of a decimeter scale. The other is to be compared 
with the even two centimeters of the same scale. This decimeter scale 
was in progress of comparison by Mr. Chapman with the decimeters of 
a meter scale. When done, a meter will have been compared with a 
wave-length.— (Aw. J. ^cL, III, xviii, 51, July, 1879.) W. A. Rogers 
has communicated valuable papers on metrological subjects, among 

235 



236 PHYSICS. 

which may be mentioned those on " The limits of accuracy in measure- 
ments with the telescope and the microscope" {Proc. Am. Acad., II, vi, 
168), on '' Standard measures of length," and " On two forms of com- 
parators for measures of length " (Am. Q. Mic. J., January and April, 1879), 
and " On the present state of the question of standards of length." — 
{Proc. Am. Acad., II, vii, 273.) More recently this physicist has de- 
scribed the construction and early performances of a new diffraction 
ruling-engine, which promises most valuable and important results. — 
{Am. J. ScL, III, xix, 54, January, 1880.) Hilgard has i^ublished, under 
date of July 10, 1880, an admirable report upon the methods and results 
of a comparison of the American and British standards of length, in- 
tended to form Appendix 12 to the Coast Survey Report for 1877. The 
final conclusions with reference to the American standards are that 
bronze No. 11 is standard at 62^.25 F., iron No. 57 at 62^.10 F., and the 
mean yard of Troughton scale at 590.62 F. 

With reference to the molecular constitution of matter, Sir William 
Thomson has continued his researches upon the " Vortex atom theory," 
and has communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh papers upon 
" Vortex statics " and upon " Vibrations of a columnar vortex," in which 
the treatment is mathematical. — {Phil. Mag., V, x, 97, August, 1880.) Tol- 
ver Preston has discussed the i)hysical asi)ects of the vortex atom theory, 
with a view to reconcile the proved indestructibility of the atom with its 
capacity for executing vibrations. He illustrates the motion of the material 
forming the vortex atom by supposing a cylinder of India rubber to be 
rotated about its longitudinal axis, and then, while still rotating, to be 
bent into the form of a ring and the ends joined. Such a portion of 
moving matter, mathematics has proved to have all the qualities of a 
solid. It is elastic, and is competent to execute vibrations of definite 
periods. Moreover, it is incapable of being divided or severed by the 
colHsions of other similar atoms. In short, such vortex atoms are elastic, 
indestructible bodies, capable of rebounding from each other without 
loss of energy, and of executing vibrations of fixed periods. — {Nature, xxii, 
56, 1880). 

Rlihlmann, from considerations founded on Avogadro's law, has given 
some calculations on the dimensions of molecules. The radius of the 
sphere of action for the nitrogen molecule he gives as 34x10-^ centi- 
meter; for the carbon dioxide molecule, 16x10-^ centimeter; and for 
the hydrogen molecule, 41x10"^ centimeter. Since one cubic centi- 
meter at 0<=^ and 760"^™ pressure contains nearly 100 trillions of molecules, 
it follows that the molecules themselves fill only about the three-thou- 
sandth part of the entire volume which the gas occupies. The author 
gives 15 X 10 ~ 23 gram as the absolute weight of a hydrogen molecule, and 
360 as the specific weight. — {Beihl. Ann. Phys. Chem., No. 2, 57, 1879.) 
Hodges has also given a computation of the size of molecules, based on 
the work required to convert water into steam, this conversion being 
considered as a breaking up of the water into a. large number of small 



PHYSICS, 237 

])arts, proportionally increasing the total surface. Supposing the mole- 
cules to be spherical, he gets for their radius 0.000000005«'", or 5 to G 
(milliou)^ for the number in one cubic centimeter ; agreeing with the 
results of Thomson and Maxwell. — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, xviii, 135, August, 
1879.) In a subsequent paper, the same author gives a calculation of 
the mean fi-ee path of the molecules in the vapor of water lying close to 
the liquid surface, which he finds to be 0.0000024"'™. — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, 
xix, 222, March, 1880.) 

MECHANICS. 

1. 0/ Solids. 

The motions of finely divided solid particles when immersed in liquids, 
commonly called the Brownian movement, and those of dust-particles 
in air, have both been attributed to the same cause, the shock of colliding 
molecules. Niigeli has calculated from the data of the kinetic theory 
what the velocity of the smallest fungus-particle observable with the 
microscope should be, supposing an oxygen or nitrogen particle to come 
in collision with it. Siuce such a particle is 300 million times heavier 
than the molecule, the velocity would not be greater than that of the 
hour hand of a watch. For ordinary motes, the motion would be 50 mil- 
lion times slower. The same results essentially were obtained for liquids ; 
whence the author thinks the Brownian movements are phenomena con- 
nected with the surfiice tension of the liquid. — {Ber. Ale. Milnchen^ 1879, 
389.) 

Buchanan has communicated to the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh a pa- 
per on the compressibility of glass, using a rod of this material placed 
in a receiver of steel with glass ends connected with a hydraulic pi^mp. 
The compression is read by means of micrometer microscopes, and the 
pressure is determined by a manometer consisting of a mercurial ther- 
mometer with a stout bulb, previously calibrated in a piezometer, the 
bulb being immersed in the water under pressure, while the stem pro- 
jects outside. The glass used was a flint glass, and the compression 
was observed up to 40 atmospheres. The cubical compression observed 
was, for each atmosphere, 2.92 i^arts in a million. Incidentally the 
compressibility of water at 2'^.5 C. was found to be 0.051G0 volume per 
thousand per atmosphere ; and its diminution with rise of temperature 
was confirmed, being 0.04831 at 12o.5C.—(iS^af?<re,xxii, 377, 1880.) Barns 
has studied the influence of hardness upon the thermo-electric proper- 
ties and the specific resistance of steel. The steel used was in the form 
of wire and was hardened by heating it by an electric current, in a glass 
tube through which a stream of carbon dioxide gas was passed and 
then suddenly admitting water. The resistance and the electromotive 
force vary with the hardness, so that If the electromotive force be taken 
as a measure of the hardness and the magnetic constant of the steel, 
the resistance is a linear function of it. — {Phil. Mag.., V, viii, 341, No- 
vember, 1879.) Marangoni, with reference to Bottomley's experiment 



238 PHYSICS. 

of passing a wire througli ice without cutting it in two, divides plastic 
substances into two classes. Those belonging to the first class, can, like 
ice, be cut in two with a metallic wire, and can be considerably deformed. 
To this class belong plastic clay, fresh soap, camphor, black x)itch. Sub- 
stances classed in the second group give two lamellce on the two sides 
of the cutting wire, which then come out of the slit, become notched and 
bend over, resembling leaves. Examples of this class are found in veg- 
etable Japanese wax, dry Marseilles soap, tallow, and stearin, and 
especially yellow wax and paraffin. The success of the experiment de- 
pends on the size of the wire and on the temi^erature. For yellow wax, 
the wire should be from ^ to 1™°^. diameter ; for paraflBn ^ to 0.9. The 
leaves with the former are produced between — 8° and 40°, with the lat- 
ter (melting at 43o.5) only up to 15°. The author calls attention to the 
similarity between these lamellae and those separated from a rail when 
a locomotive goes down a steep incline rai^idly and with a powerful 
brake applied. — {Nature, xxi, 21, 1879.) 

Herschel has published a paper on the use of the seconds pendulum 
for determining the figure of the earth, in which becomes to the conclu- 
sion that the experiments made hitherto are of little use, since the prob- 
lem to be solved was so imi)erfectly grasped. The use of the absolute 
pendulum contemplated two distinct objects which had no esseutial con- 
nection, the force of gravity and the figure of the earth; while the use 
of the difterential pendulum contemplated only one. The rate of the 
seconds pendulum varies along the actual equator, and the value of grav- 
ity at the equator is therefore only an idea. — {Nature, xxi, 599, 1880.) 
C. S. Peirce has given the results of his pendulum experiments made 
under the direction of the Coast Survey. The values obtained were : 
At Hoboken, 0.9932052^ ; at Paris, 0.9939337 ; at Berlin, 0.9942399 ; at 
Kew 0.99417 7G. Reduced to the sea-level these numbers become 0.993- 
2074, 0.9939500„0.9942482, and 0.9941790. Reduced to the equator, they 
are : 0.9910003, 0.9910132, 0.9909865, and 0.9910083. These values, the 
author thinks, will have to be diminished by about 20 microns on ac- 
count of the error of the standard of length employed.— (Am. J. Set., 
Ill ,xx, 327, October, 1880.) Mendenhall has made a series of experi- 
ments to determine the force of gravity at Tokio, Japan. In the earlier 
part of the investigation a Kater pendulum was used ; in the latter, one 
of Borda's construction. The beats were recorded upon a chronograph 
at the same time with those of a break-circuit clock, the length of one 
second upon the sheet being about 8"^™, so that it could easily be 
subdivided. Since it was only the fractional part of a second by which 
the two pendulums differed, that was to be determined, the standard 
pendulum was only required to break the circuit twice, once at the be- 
ginning and again at the end of the experiment. Asa mean of six ex- 
periments with the Kater pendulum the value of "</" was found to be 
9.7974 ; the mean of eleven experiments with the Borda pendulum gave 
9.7984.— (Am. J. Sd., Ill, xx, 124, August, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 239 

Deprez has contrived a new velocity-rej^nlator for electric motors. It 
consists essentially of an elastic spring, fastened at one of its extremi- 
ties to the rotating axis and parallel to it. To the other end is attached 
a small mass of brass traversed by a screw by which its distance from 
the axis may be adjnsted, and the tension of the spring at the same time 
increased. The current which drives the motor passes through this 
spring. If now the rotation is so rapid that the free end of the spring 
is thrown away from the axis by the centrifugal force, the contact is 
broken and the current is interrupted ; the speed of the motor is dimin- 
ished, contact is renewed, and so on, the velocity being exactly regu- 
lated by the adjusting screw. — [J. PJiys., viii, 10, January, 1870.) Fon- 
vielle has devised a form of gyroscope whose rotation is produced by 
magneto-electric currents. A flat coil of wire, like that used in galvan- 
ometers, has an intermittent current sent into it from an induction coil. 
When a star shaped piece of iron, mounted on a pivot so as to rotate 
like a compass-needle, is placed in the center of the coil, it begins to re- 
volve whenever a iiorse-shoe magnet is placed above it vertically, or 
when a bar magnet is placed in certain directions with reference to it. 
Eeversiug the direction of the current reverses the direction of the rota- 
tion. — {Nature, xxi, 593, April, 1880.) 

2. Of Liquids. 

Eudorff has described a special form of volumenometer used by him 
for the determination of the specific gravity of powders. The new ap- 
paratus is composed entirely of glass, and consists of a cylindrical reser- 
voir of 25<"= capacity, from the lower part of which a tube passes, this tube 
being enlarged just below the reservoir, and having a cock at its lower 
end. The reservoir is closed at top by a ground stopper famished with 
a stopcock, and to it laterally is attached a long U-shaped manometer 
tube. Mercury is poured into the reservoir until the tube is filled to 
the mark on the neck. The upper cock is closed and the mercury drawn 
out into a tared vessel till the difference of level between the two mer- 
cury surfaces in the manometer is a certain quantity h. After the mer- 
cury is weighed it is poured back into the tube, the substance whose 
specific gravity is to be determined is introduced into tUe reservoir and 
the above oi)erations are repeated. ' Simple calculation gives the value 
required. — {Ann. Phys. Chem., II, vi, 288, 1879.) Buignet has improved 
the Nicholson areometer by making the stem longer and larger, marking 
zero at the point to which it sinks in water when empty, and n at the 
point to which it sinks when loaded with n grams. To use it, the in- 
strument is placed in water and sinks to zero. The mineral whose grav- 
ity is desired is placed on the upper pan ; the stem is immersed to a 

point P. Placed in the lower pan, it sinks the stem to a point, P'. Then 

p 
pi^p, is the density of the specimen. The sensitiveness of the instru- 
ment depends on the size of the stem. Its use is rapid and accurate. — 
(J. Phijs., ix, 93, March, 1880.) 



240 PHYSICS. 

Spring has continued his investigations on the welding of solid bodies 
by pressure, and has now subjected more than eighty pulverized solids 
to pressures in vacuo up to 10,000 atmospheres, varymg at the same 
time the temperature. All the crystalline bodies proved capable of 
welding, and in the case of amorphous bodies, crystalline structure had 
been developed in the block by the pressure. He classifies amorphous 
bodies into two groups, one like wax and called ciroid, which weld easily, 
the other like amorphous carbon, which do not weld, and hence called 
aciroid. The facts observed do not essentially differ from those observed 
when two drops of a liquid meet and unite. Hardness is a relative, 
even a subjective, term. Even water may appear hard to certain insects, 
and if our bodies were sufficiently heavy, the pavement would not bear 
us. The change of prismatic to octohedral sulphur, of amorphous to 
metallic phosphorus, by compression, the change of state of amorphous 
bodies, the chemical action produced when the product has a less volume 
than the constituents, all result in a denser form of matter. Whence the 
conclusion that the particular state taken by matter is in relation to the 
volume it is obliged to occupy under the action of external forces. The 
geological bearing of these facts is very evident. — {Nature, xxii, 350, 
1880.) 

Ridout shows the surface tension of mercury by supporting a shallow 
tray, 6 by 3 inches, on leveling screws, so inclined that the mercury is 
on the point of overflowing. If now the flow of the mercury be started, 
it will draw the rest of the liquid after it. The mercury must be very 
pure or it will leave a trail. — {Nature^ xxii, 157, 1880.) 

Lechat has studied the forms produced when liquids are caused to 
vibrate in vessels of rectangular section, and has compared the results 
obtained with those required by theory. The vessels employed were 
made of wood or glass, with walls a centimeter thick. The liquid was 
vibrated by a bar of steel placed before an electro-magnet, which bar 
automatically interrupted the current. To one end of a transverse rod 
a stem was attached which could be adjusted to any point of the sur- 
face. The nodal lines were very distinct, and the phenomena were very 
striking, especially when projected on the screen. — {J. Phys., ix, 185, 
June, 1880.) 

Sir William Thomson read a paper to the British Association on a sep- 
tum permeable to water but not to air, and suggested its application to a 
gauge for measuring depths. A small quantity of water in a cainllary 
tube, with both ends in air, acts like a perfectly air-tight plug against 
difference of pressure at its two ends equal to the hydrostatic pressure 
corresponding to the height at which water stands in the same capillary 
tube when it is held upright with one end under water and the other in 
air. In the meeting, he used an Argand-lamp chimney which had a 
finely- wo ven i^iece of cotton cloth tied over it. When dry, the water rose 
easily when the uncovered end was immersed, as well as when the cov- 
ered one was. But after wetting the cloth, it seemed x)erfectly air-tight 



PHYSICS. 241 

even under inches water-pressure. The depth-gauge is made by tying 
a piece of cloth over the mouth of the larger leg of a U-tube, the end of 
the smaller being closed by a stopper. On sinking it the air is com- 
pressed, and water enters through the cloth into the smaller leg. On 
raising it the air expands and forces the water out through the cloth to 
the last drop. The depth can be determined from the water left in the 
smaller leg of the instrument. — {Nature, xxii, 548, 1880.) 

3. Of Gases. 

Hannay and nogarth have communicated to the Eoyal Society a re- 
markable iiaper on the solubility of solids in gases, the research being 
the starting point of the experiments which have since enabled the 
former to i)roduce crystallized carbon. They desired to investigate the 
solvent power of liquids at temperatures at or above their critical points. 
For if at the critical point there really occurs a transition from the liquid 
to the gaseous state, and if the property of dissolving solids is one pos- 
sessed by liquids alone, there ought to be precipitation of the dissolved 
solid matter as the substance passes through the critical point. Absence 
of such precipitation would furnish a strong independent proof of the 
perfect continuity of the liquid and gaseous states. As a preliminary 
test, a solution of potassium iodide in alcohol was prepared and a strong 
tube one half filled with it. No precipitation of any solid was observable 
even at 350^" 0., more than 100° above the critical point of alcohol. 
Eesin dissolved in paraffin spirit showed no decomposition at 300°. 
With an improved and simplified apparatus, it was shown that a clean 
crystal of potassium iodide dissolved entirely in alcohol gas (the term 
" gas" referring to the tiuid above its critical point). Potassium bromide 
and calcium chloride were also soluble in this gas. Oobaltous chloride 
remained soluble at 320° and showed its blue color and characteristic 
spectrum. Even the acid decomposition-product of chlorophyll, which 
decomposes in the air below 200°, gives, when dissolved in alcohol, iden- 
tical spectra at 350<^ and at 15° 0. Some curious reactions were ob- 
served. Thus alcohol or ether deposits ferric chloride just below the- 
critical point, but redissolves it in the gas when raised 8° or 10° above 
that point. By suddenly reducing the pressure, the solid is precipitated 
crystalline, falling as a snow. It is redissolved in the gas as the i)ress- 
sure increases. — {Proc. Roy. Soc, xxx, 178 5 Nature, xxi, 82, 499, 1880.) 

Bottomley has described a neat experiment by Quincke, first sug- 
gested by some experiments to test the porosity of glass. A glass tube, 
5 inches long and thi'ee-fourths inch external diameter, witli stout walls, 
was closed at one end and constricted a little more than half way up. 
Into the lower closed portion some sulphuric acid was poured, and above 
the constriction some fragments of marble were placed. The tube was 
then drawn off at top, thickened, and carefully annealed. On inverting 
it the acid attacked the marble, and carbon dioxide was evolved. For 
the first few days nothing peculiar was noticeable; but soon the liquid 
S. Mis. 31 16 



242 PHYSICS. 

began to crepp away from the glass, scarcely wetting it, and no doubt 
was entertained that soon the phenomenon seen in Quincke's tubes would 
appear, and the acid would roll about in the tube like mercury. The 
explanation is that these peculiar capillary phenomena are due to a thick 
layer of gas that is condensed over the surface of the glass. — {Nature, 
XX, 291, 1880.) 

De la Rue and Miiller, reasoning from their electric researches on the 
spark in rarefied air, believe themselves entitled to conclude on the 
probable height of our atmosxjhere. The least resistance to an electric 
discharge in hydrogen is obtained at a pressure of 0.642™™, or 845 M 
(M signifying millionths of an atmosphere). When it reaches .002™™, or 
.3 M, the discharge only just passes with a potential of 11,000 silver chloride 
cells (11,330 volts). At the highest exhaustion, 0.000055™™, or 0.066 M, 
no discharge took place with the 11,000 cells, but even a 1-inch spark 
failed to pass. Since a discharge at atmospheric pressure which occurs 
in hydrogen at 0.22 inch takes place in air only at 0.13 inch, the authors 
•conclude that the least resistance for air is at 0.379™™, or 408.6 M. This 
pressure would be reached at a height of 37.67 miles above the sea. 
Hence here the auroral discharge would have its maximum brilliancy, 
.and would be visible 585 miles. The best vacuum produced, 0.066 M, 
corresponds to a height of 81.47 miles. At this height the discharge 
would be considerably less brilliant. At a height of 124.15 miles the 
pressure would be only .00000001™™, or 0.00001 M, and at such a height 
it is not conceivable that a discharge would occur with any probable 
potential. At a pressure of 62™™ the discharge has the weil-known car- 
mine tint of the aurora. This corresponds to an altitude of 12.4 miles. 
At a pressure of 1.5™™ it becomes salmon-tint, and at 0.8™™ much paler. 
Above this exhaustion it becomes a pale milky white. — {Mature, xxi, 33, 
1880.) 

Debrun has suggested an improved barometer, which he calls an 
.amplifying barometer. It resembles the Fortin instrument in general, 
but the iDoint marking the zero is at the top of the tube. The cistern 
has a second tube in its top, open to the air, and into which the mercury 
rises, so that the reading is the difference of the levels of the mercury 
surfaces in the two tubes. A third and narrower tube, also open at top, 
passes through the top of the cistern. This cistern is larger than ordi- 
nary, and contains water above the mercury, into which this tube dips, 
and which rises into it, the level being read by means of a graduat-ed 
scale. Any variation of the height of the mercury is multiplied in the 
water-column in the ratio of the section of the cistern to that of the 
water- tube. Hence the sensibility of such a barometer is equal to that 
of the water-barometer. — {J. Phys., ix, 387, November, 1880.) 

Jordan has constructed and erected in the Kew Observatory a barom- 
eter in which the liquid employed is glycerin colored with aniline-red. 
As manufactured by Price & Co, the glyceriu has a si^ecific gravity ot 
1.26. Hence the mean height of the column is 27 feet, and a variation 



PHYSICS. 243 

of ODetentli of an inch of the mercurial column is more than an inch on 
the glycerin scale. Moreover, the high boiling point of glycerin, 440° 
F., its very low vapor tension, and its low freezing ])oiut are all in its 
favor. The cistern in the Kew instrument is a cylindrical vessel of tinned 
copper, 10 inches diameter and 5 deej), with a screw cover, the air having 
access through a small hole in the cap of this, and passing through a 
layer of cotton wool to keep out the dust. The tube is of composition- 
metal gas-pipe ^ inch diameter, which is soldered to a similar piece of 
pijie which enters the cistern through its bottom and is closed by a 
screw plug. To the top of the main tube, a glass tube 4 feet long and 
1 inch inside diameter is cemented. It terminates in a cup and is closed 
with an India-rubber stopper. The lluctuations are read oif by means 
of two verniers, one of which gives inches and tenths and the other the 
equivalent value of the mercurial column. Daily observations are being 
made upon it with a view to determine its accuracy. — {Xaturc, xxi, 377, 
1880.) 

Terquem has proposed a modified form of air-pump plate, which dis- 
penses with the costly grinding necessary in the present form. The plate 
is of brass, circular in form and about a millimeter in thickness, having 
a circular cavity in it two centimeters deep and one wide, placed a few 
centimeters from the edge, the mean diameter of this depression being 
that of the bell to be used with it. When the plate is to be used it is 
heated and the cavity tilled with a cement melting at about 60^ C. That 
used by the author is furnished by F. Carre with his ice-pump, and con- 
sists of a mixture of resin, wax, and tallow. When melted the bell is 
placed in i^osition and the heat continued until the glass has also be- 
come hot. The whole is then allowed to cool. The cheapness of these 
plates allows the use of several of them for the various air-pump experi- 
ments. — {J. Fhys., ix, 346, October, 1880.) Rood has descnbed an im- 
provement in the form of the Sprengel ijump, by which vacua as high 
as 900-wooo or T^ 0^00 are readily obtained. Fii^st, the mercury 
passes through an exhausted bulb to free it from air and inoisture, then 
through a nearly horizontal tube to the fall-tube. Secondly this fiill 
tube is bent four times at a little more than a right angle, forming a 
lateral loop or valve, preventing the air that has passed out of the fall- 
tube from returning into it. The pump i s free from stopcocks and grease, 
and its action is very rapid, two or three hours sufficing to reduce the 
vacuum from 50 M to 0.01 M, the capacity being 100<"°. Even in the 
absence of all drying materials a vacuum as high as 0.033 M has been 
obtained. — {Am. J. ScL, III, xx, 57, July, 1880.) 

Bertin, in an interesting article on the modern methods for introducing 
high vacua, describes the McLeod gauge, that necessary adjunct to the 
Sprengel pump. It depends on ^e principle that if the volume of a 
rarefied gas be reduced n times, the pressure becomes measurable, and 
the original pressure is equal to the measured pressure divided by n. It 
consists of a bulb of glass surmounted by a thick tube 10 to lo"-^ long 



244 PHYSICS. 

and 2 or S™*" in diameter, closed at top and carefully calibrated. Below, 
the bulb connects with a straight tube 80'^'° long, a lateral tube opening 
into it just below the bulb and leading npward to the pump. The ca- 
pacity of the bulb above the lateral opening is ascertained by weighiug 
the mercury which fills it. Thus the ratio of the volumes of the bulb 
and of the small tube above it is known. The long tube is connected 
at its lower end with a reservoir of mercnry by means of a rubber tube, 
so that when this is raised the gange may be filled with mercury. After 
the vacuum has been made in the pump, of which the gauge forms a 
part, the reservoir is lifted and the mercury rises in the long tube until 
it passes the mouth of the lateral tube and seals off the air in the bulb. 
As the mercury fills the bulb, the air collects in the small tube, and the 
pressure under which it exists is the difference of level of the mercury 
in this tube and the side tube. Knowing the volumes and the final press- 
ure the initial pressure is given by ]VIarriotte's law. Mr. Crookes regards 
it reliable to the millionth of an atmosphere, 0.0007G0™'". "Warren de la 
Eue limits its indications at 0.00005™™. — (JLnri. Chim. Phys., Y, xix, 231, 
February, 1880.) 

Amagat has studied elaborately the variation of gaseous bodies from 
the law of Marriotte at high i^ressures, exact measurements being made 
of the changes in volume when the gas sustained a mercury column 
over one-fifth of a mile high. The shaft of the Verpilleux coal mine, 
near St. Etienne, 327™ in depth, was chosen, the experiments here being 
confined to nitrogen gas. A powerful and specially constructed pump 
forced mercury at the same time u-p the manometer tube and into the 
tube containing the gas. Since both were carefully calibrated, the meas- 
urement in the former gave the pressure and in the latter the volume. 
In nitrogen the compressibility increases slowly and reaches a maximum 
at about 65 atmospheres. Then it decreases equally slowly, reaching a 
normal figure at about 91 atmospheres. Finally it decreases rapidly, 
till at 430 atmospheres the volume is five-fourths of that required by 
Marriotte's law. This law of nitrogen being ascertained, the manometer 
tube was replaced by a nitrogen tube and the other gases compared 
with that. Air, oxygen, hydrogen, carbonous oxide, ethylene, and marsh 
gas were examined up to 400 atmospheres. The results are given graphi- 
cally, the abscissas representing pressures and the ordinates the differ- 
ences between the product of the volumes by the pressures and unity, 
i. e., to the deviations from Marriotte's law. Hydrogen only does not 
exhibit a minimum of volume and pressure product. — {Aim. Chim. Phys., 
Y, xix, 345, March, 1880.) Cailletet has also studied the law of the com- 
pression of nitrogen. He used a steel laboratory tube, within which 
^^as a piezometer tube containing the gas. To the laboratory tube was 
attached a tube of soft steel 250™ lo«g, rolled upon a wooden cylinder 
2™ in diameter. The laboratory tube was supported by a steel wire 4™™ 
diameter, carefully graduated. The gas tube being put in place, the 
apparatus was filled with mercury and lowered by a windlass into an arte- 



PHYSICS. 245 

siau well. The pressui'e was read oil" on the graduatetl suspending wire. 
To determine the volume, the inside of the piezometer tulx^ was gilded, 
and the height to which the mercury rose in it was show n by the removal 
of the gold. The measurements were carried on with nitrogen to 182 
atmospheres. Cailletet has also studied the effect of pressure on gaseous 
mixtures, and has described a method by which a pressure of 1,500 at- 
mospheres may be measured to within one-half of 1 per cent, of its true 
value. — {J. Phys.y viii, 267 ; ix, 192 ; Ann. Cliim. Fhys., V, xix, 380, 
March, 1880.) 

ACOUSTICS. 

Carmichael has devised a revolving jet to be used withKoenig's mano- 
metric capsule for the purpose of showing sonorous vibrations in class 
instruction. A tube bent at right angles and tipped with a jet is sur- 
rounded at its extremity by a second concentric tube also bent at right 
angles, but in the opposite direction, so that the two bent parts are in 
the same line and form an axis about which the jet revolves. A mica 
cylinder incloses the flame, which is that of ordinary gas, enriched, if 
necessary, with benzene and fed with oxygen. The gas tube is in com- 
munication with a Koenig capsule, so that the flame is thrown into vi- 
bration by means of it. On rotating the jet by a multiplying wheel 
a brilliant ring of light appears, which is broken uj) into saw-teeth by 
sounds.— (Am. J. Set., Ill, xLx, 312, April, 1880.) 

Schwedoff has described a simple apparatus for studying the vibra- 
tions of cords, which consists in an electric vibrator like that in use for 
bells. The cord is attached to the armature at one end, the other being 
fastened to a movable clamp which slides along the top of a blackened 
board divided into a nmnber of equal divisions. To the clamp tlie cord 
is attached by a screw, by which its tension may be regulated at pleas- 
ure. — (fJ. Pliys.^ viii, 23, January, 1879.) 

Mercadier has exhibited in Paris a vibration micrometer for accurately 
determining the vibration-amplitude of tuning-forks and other vibrating 
bodies. A small piece of thin white paper bearing a fine black line is 
fastened to the body whose vibrations are to be measured. If this line 
is upright it will present, when caused to vibrate, the appearance of a 
pale gray parallelogram, the persistence of the visual impression being 
perfectly definite for the extreme positions of tbe vibration. To ascer- 
tain the amplitude of the vibration, all that is necessary is to measure 
the apparent width of this minute parallelogram in a direction at right 
angles to the axis of symmetry of the oscillation. To increase the pre- 
cision, the reference line is set, not peri)endicular to the direction of the 
movement, but inclined to it at a small angle. A fine scale of lines is 
made upon the paper parallel to the direction of the movement and a 
millimeter distant. The width of the parallelogram is thus read off 
along a straight line, which makes a small angle with its sides, thus 
giving the quotient of the amplitude sought by the tangent of a small 



246 PHYSICS. 

angle. Witli this apparatus the author has studied the motions of a 
tuning-fork vibrating electrically. — [Nature, xxi, 189, 1879.) 

Koeuig has studied the influence of temperature on the vibrations of 
a normal tuning-fork. He finds that np to 50° or 60° the influence of 
heat upon a fork may be regarded as practically constant. Thick tun- 
ing-forks are more affected by heat than thin ones of the same pitch, 
showing that it is change in the elasticity rather than change in the 
length of the arms which is the primary cause of the change of pitch. 
On forks of different pitch and of not very different thickness, the effect 
of heat is proportional to the number of vibrations. Generally the 
period of vibration of a fork is increased or diminished sij-f a by a dif- 
ference of temperature of 1° C. The general change in pitch of the 
normal fork TJts = 512 vibrations per second at 20^, through the varia- 
tion of 1° C. in the temperature, is 0.0572 vibration per second. He has 
constructed a fork which will give 512 vibrations at any temperature. — 
{Nature, xxii, 90, 1880.) 

Kayser has also investigated the influence of temperature upon the 
pitch of tuning-forks. He used a method founded on the observation 
of the alteration of the difference of phase between two forks as the 
temperature varied, the forks being furnished with mirrors and the 
Lissajous, curves observed with a telescope. He finds, (1) that the 
vibration number of a tuning-fork between 0^ and 30° is a linear func- 
tion of the temperature ; (2) that the influence of temperature is greater 
the higher the tone of the fork, and with forks similarly arranged the 
variation of the vibration number is about proportional to the square 
root of that number ; (3) that with moderate variations of temperature, 
such as occur in a room, the temperature affects the vibration number 
in the second place of decimals ; and (4) that the coefficient of elasticity 
increases between 0° and 30° with the temperature. — {Ann. Fhys. CJiem., 
II, viii, 444, 1879; Nature, xxi, 243, 1880.) 

Ellis has communicated to the Society of Arts an important paper 
upon the " History of Musical Pitch." This he defines to be the pitch 
of the tuning-note, or that by which all other notes on an instrument 
with fixed tones are regulated according to some system of tuning or 
temperament. It is convenient to consider A as the tuning-note in all 
cases, though luanos and organs are usually tuned on 0. In equal tem- 
perament A 444 corresponds to C 528 vibrations. In mean-tone tem- 
jierament A 418 corresponds to C 500 ; whereas for a perfect minor third 
between A and C, A 440 corresponds to C 528. Before 1711, the organ- 
pipe was the only means of handing down pitch. Subsequently both 
this and the tuning-fork were thus used. Both, however, alter with 
temperature ; the former by one vibration in a thousand for each 1° F., 
sharpening by heat and flattening by cold. Hence all organ pitches 
must be reduced to a standard temperature, 59° F. or 15° C. being 
recommended. The fork alters by one vibration in 21,000 for each 1° F. ; 
flattening by heat and sharpening by cold. The various pitches of 



PHYSICS. 247 

the difl'ereut forks were tested by means of Schei bier's tonometer, tlie 
beats with the standard fork being carefully counted. Great variations 
were observed, the lowest pitch for A being 374 vibrations at L'llospice 
Comtesse, Lille, and the highest 5G7 vibrations, the usual cliurch 
pitch in Xorth Germany in 1019, called chamber pitch by Pra^torious. — 
{Nature, xxi, 550, 1880.) 

Kayser, under Helmholtz's direction, has made a series of experiments 
to test the question whether the intensity of a sound has any inilueuce 
upon its velocity of propagation. He used a tube giving a continuous 
note, each vibrating section of which passes through the same i)hase 
after each semi-vibration. Hence two sections passing a determinate 
phase at the same instant are distant from each other by a multi])le of 
half a wave length. To render visible the vibration of a gaseous section 
of the tube, a small tongue was cut in a very thin plate of mica, which 
was cemented by one of its extremities to a copper ring sliding within 
the tube. This mica plate reproduced the phases of air vibration at the 
point where it was placed. A sliding wire controlled the length of the 
tongue so as to bring it into unisoij with the sound of the tube. View- 
ing a luminous point on the tongue through a vibration microscope, a 
Lissajous figure is formed by a combination of the two rectangular 
vibrations. Very minute changes of phase in the tongue produce marked 
changes in the figure. By displacing the mica along the tube until a 
given figure is reproduced, the distance moved is obviously half a wave 
length. If the mica tongue be fixed at the open extremity of the tube, 
and a movable piston be made to close the other one, the same figure is 
observed on the lamina whenever the i)iston is displaced by half a wave 
length. A constant sound was obtained in the tube by means of an 
electrically vibrated fork in front of a resonator. By varying the 
amplitude of oscillation, the intensity of the sound could be varied. 
On comparison with a divided scale, the amplitude of the mica vibra- 
tions was found to be i^roportional to the oscillations of the air column. 
As a result, the author does not find any difference in the velocity of a 
sound when its intensity is made to vary. Eegnault's results, being ob- 
tained with waves of explosion very different in their character, do not 
hold good for musical sounds. — {Ann. Pliys. Chem., II, vi, 405, 1870.) 

Jacques has experimented to ascertain the velocity of propagation of 
very loud sounds produced by the firing of a six-pound brass field-piece 
at the Watertown Arsenal, Massachusetts. A series of membranes was 
erected at distances varying from 10 to 110 feet from the mouth of the 
cannon, and in the rear of it. Each membrane consisted of a hoop 9 
inches in diameter, over which a sheet of thin rubber was stretched. At 
the center, on the side toward the cannon, a small brass shelf was 
fastened, on which rested one end of a delicate steel spring, the other 
end being held by a separate support. These metallic parts formed 
portions of a continuous metallic circuit, including all the screens, and 
terminating in the primary coil of an inductorium. The Schultz chrono- 



248 PHYSICS. 

graph cousisted of a revolving cylinder of silver covered with lampblack, 
connected with one terminal of the secondary coil. The other terminal 
was a fine wire brought very near the surface of the cylinder. When by 
the motion of the membranes the primary circuit was broken, a spark 
passed to the cylinder and made a fine dot in the lampblack. By refer- 
ence to a sinuous curve of times traced simultaneously on the cylinder 
by an electrically vibrated fork, the time could be measured to .00001 
second. When the air was quiet the gun was fired and the arrival of 
the pulse at each successive membrane was recorded. By measuring 
the distances the velocities are readily calculated. It was found that 
immediately in the rear of the cannon the velocity was less than at a 
distance, but that going farther and farther away from the cannon the 
velocity oi sound rose to a maximum considerably above the ordinary 
velocity and then fell gradually to about the velocity usually received. 
Hence the author concludes : 1st, that the velocity of sound is a function 
of its intensity ; and 2d, that experiments uj^on the velocity of sound in 
which a cannon is used contain an error i^robably due to the bodily 
motion of the air near the cannon. For a correct determination of the 
velocity of sound, therefore, he thinks that a musical sound of low in- 
tensity must be used. — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, xvii, 116, February, 1879.) 
Ihlseng under tlie direction of Rood has measured the velocity of 
sound in various kinds of wood. In his first experiments he used the 
method of Kundt, vibrating a rod of the given wood, 1 to 2 meters long, 
longitudinally, while one end of it, armed with a cork, entered the end 
of a glass tube a meter in length, and containing a fine powder. To the 
other end of the tube a i)iston was fitted so as to make the length used 
a multiple of the half wave length in air. In this way rods of cedar, 
white- wood, yellow and white pine, hickory, M^hite ash, holly, mahogany, 
black walnut, cherry, and white oak were experimented with. In a sec- 
ond series of experiments a method was adopted by which the rod reg- 
istered its own vibrations on a smoked-glass plate drawn rapidly across 
the vibrating end of the rod in a horizontal direction by means of a 
weight ; while at the same time a tuning-fork registered the time. The 
conclusions given are : 1st, it is possible to measure the velocity of sound 
in rods with considerable accuracy by the graphic method ; 2d, Kundt's 
method gives results which are slightly higher than those by the graphic 
method; and 3d, the graphic method demonstrates the existence of 
transverse along with longitudinal vibration and gives their ratios. — 
{Am. J. ScL, III, xvii, 125, February, 1879.) 

Kohlrausch has given a method of studying the condition of the air 
in a vibrating column, and of repeating the experiments of Savart and 
Seebeck upon the position of the fixed nodes and loops x>roduced by the 
combination of the direct and the reflected sonorous waves. For this 
purpose a caoutchouc membrane, stretched upon the extremity of an 
open tube, is lowered into the organ-pipe which is sounding, by means 
of a string passing through the cork closing the pipe. In this case the 



PHYSICS. 249 

niembrano is in contact on both sides with the air in the pipe, and it 
vibrates at the looi^s and ceases at the nodes. Bnt if the second end 
of the tube carrying" the membrane be closed with a cork, the meiidjrane 
is now in contact only on one side with the air in the pipe, and it vibrates 
strongly at the nodes and ceases to vibrate at the loops. Seebeck ex- 
plained this by showing that one of the waves was obliged to go round 
the tube to reach the membrane, and thus its velocity (^hanged sign. 
Bichat, in noticing this paper, gives the method he has used for show- 
ing this result in class instruction. He uses the ordinary closed organ- 
pil^e with a glass side, made by Koenig. On urging the blast a sound 
is obtained having a node at about one-third of its length from the 
mouth and a loop at one-third from the closed end. A membrane of 
gold-beater's skin, attached to a rigid ring, is first passed through the 
tube to show in the usual way that the sand placed upon it is disturbed 
at the loops and not at the nodes. Then a small manometric capsule is 
used in place of the membrane, having two small glass tubes i^assing 
from its top through the cover of the pipe. Through one of these coal 
gas enters, and at the outer end of the other it is burned. On examin- 
ing this flame in a revolving mirror it will be seen to be in vibration 
when the capsule is at the node, and at rest when at a loop. — {Ann. Phys. 
Chem., II, viii, 384; J. Fhys., ix, 102, 1880.) 

Mayer has applied the principle of exploring the wave-surface in air 
from a sounding body, which he devised some years ago, to the construc- 
tion of a simple and eflicient apparatus called a topophoue, by which even 
the unpracticed ear may determine accurately the direction of a distant 
sound, even in foggy weather. It consists of a vertical rod passing 
through the roof of the deck-cabin of a vessel, for example, approaching 
the coast, bearing upon its ui^per en<l a horizontal bar carrying two adjust- 
able resonators below which is a pointer set at right angles with the bar. 
Eubber tubes from the resonators pass through the roof of the cabin and 
unite in a single pipe connected with a pair of ear-tubes. The vertical 
rod is turned in any direction by means of a handle. The resonators are 
first accurately tuned to the sound under observation. They are then 
fixed at a distance from each other somewhat less than the wavelength 
for this sound, and brought by turning the handle simultaneously on the 
wave-surface. As they now receive the sound-wave upon their mouths 
at the same instant in the same jjhase, the ear will hear the sound re-en- 
forced if the connecting tubes are of the same length, and diminished if 
one is a half wave-length shorter than the other. When this is attained 
the bar is a chord in the spherical wave-surface of which the sounding 
body, say a fog-horn, is the center. Hence the pointer which is perpen- 
dicular to this bar points out the bearing of the fog-horn with great 
accuracy. By making a second observation at a known distance and 
direction from the first, a second radius line is obtained, and the distance 
of the fog-horn is computed. — {Nature, xxi, 385, February, 1880.) 

Schellbach and Boehm have proposed a simple experiment for show- 



250 PHYSICS. 

ing the refraction of sound-waves. In an inverted bell-jar of glass is 
placed a horizontal disk of smoke-blackened jjaper. A circular collo- 
dion membrane is arranged above it, inclined 33° to the plane of the 
edge of the bell. If now on the axis of this membrane, and at 13 centi- 
meters distance, an electric spark be i^roduced, the membrane vibrates 
and the waves which it produces make a series of concentric circles upon 
the i^aper, the center of which is on the axis of the membrane. If the 
bell be filled with carbon dioxide the center of these circles is displaced 
in the direction required by refraction and by a quantity corresponding 
to the sonorous refractive index. Hydrogen gas may also be employed. 
—{Ann. Phys. Ghein., II, viii, 045, 1879.) 

Eood, in studying the action of a revolving fan introduced into melo- 
deons for the purpose of producing a " tremolo " effect, ascertained that 
the variations in loudness produced by it were due to reflection or non- 
reflection from the face of the revolving fan, and that the same effect 
could be obtained from a disk consisting of closed and open sectors and 
revolving in its own plane. With this simple apparatus the following- 
points were established: (1) At a perpendicular incidence the short 
sound-waves are more copiously reflected than those that are longer, and 
the regular reflection is more copious from large than from small sur- 
faces. (2) When the sound-waves fall upon small flat surfaces at an 
acute angle, the reflection is most copious in the same direction as with 
light, but the reflected and inflected waves can be traced all around the 
semicircle. (3) Qualitative comparisons between the power of different 
substances to reflect sound can easily be made. (4) If a composite sound- 
wave falls on the rotating disk, the shorter waves will undergo regular 
reflection more copiously than the other components. (5) The reflection 
of sound from very small surfaces is easily demonstrated. — {Am. J. Sci., 
Ill, xix, 133, February, 1880.) 

Ehodes has devised a simple apparatus to aid the deaf in hearing, 
called the audiphone. It consists of a thin flexible sheet of hard ebon- 
ite rubber, provided with a handle like a palm-leaf fan, and with a cord 
which can be tightened at pleasure to curve it into the form of a semi- 
cylinder. The edge of the sheet is i)ressed against the upper set of 
teeth, the convex surface being outwards, so that vibrations impinging 
upon the sheet are transmitted through the teeth and bones of the skull 
to the auditory nerve. Its use, therefore, is limited to cases where the 
nerve is nearly or quite intact. Colladon has replaced the costly ebon- 
ite by a sheet of fine elastic cardboard, about 18 inches by 10, and var- 
nished at the edges, which is curved by being pressed against the teeth 
by the hand. Experiments made with it upon deaf-mutes were highly 
interesting. A professional musician, deaf for fourteen years, was en- 
abled by this audiphone again to hear piano music. Fletcher, in further 
experimenting, jjrefers birch-wood veneer cut to an oval 12 by 8i inches, 
steamed and bent to a curve. It is held between the teeth. In his ex- 
perience any audiphone is a failure in two-thirds of the cases of deafness 
in whi(?h it is tried.— {Nature, xxi, 426, 469, 515, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 251 

Sedley Taylor lias given tlio name phoneidoscopc to an apparatus for 
studying tlie character of sound vibrations by causing them to act on 
a liquid film thin enough to give color, such as a film of glyceric liquid. 
Guebhard has i>roposed a modification of the method by which he has 
obtained some veiy curious results. IJeaiitiful interference rings are 
produced by the condensation of the vapor of water upon the freshly 
cleaned surfiice of a very impure mercury. When, for example, the 
various vowel sounds are emitted above such a mercury surface, with a 
pure tone maintained for some seconds, at a distance so small that the 
vapor of water contained in the breath has not time to diffuse, a series 
of figures are obtained which are characteristic. Figures are given of 
tRe ten principal vowel sounds thus produced. The four nasal vowels 
give more complex figures. — {J. Phys., ix, 242, July, 1S80.) 

Barlow has constructed an apparatus for recording the sounds of the 
human voice, which he calls a logograph. It consists of a small trumpet- 
shaped mouthpiece, the larger extremity of which widens to a diameter 
of 7 centimeters. Over this end is fastened a thin caoutchouc mem- 
brane. A light arm of aluminum is fastened at one end to the frame, 
and the other, which presses against the center of the membrane, with 
which it is movable, carries a small brush containing color. A band of 
pajier, like that used in the telegraph, passes beneath, so that the point 
of the brush just touches it, and traces a line upon it when the mem- 
brane is at rest, which is a zero line. There is a small lateral opening 
in the mouthpiece for the escape of the air. Various examples are given 
of the results obtained in using the logograph for spoken language.— (J". 
Phys., viii, 78, March, 1879.) 

Dvorak has observed that light resonators of glass or metal are re- 
pelled very decidedly when they are brought near to the resonance box 
of a fork turned in unison with them. The condition essential to the 
success of the experiment is that the air of the resonance box shall be 
really in vibration. A metallic disk in unison with the resonator may 
also be used as the vibrating body. The repulsion thus produced is so 
strong that when a mill is constructed with four resonators at its ends 
and placed before the resonance box of a large fork, the mill revolves. 
Mayer independently discovered the same iihenomeuon. —(P//i?. 3Iag., 
V, vi, 225, 1870.) 

HEAT. 

1. Tliermometry and Change of State. 

Benoit has described a new temperature-regulator based upon the 
principle of the variation of the tension of a saturated vapor with the 
temperature, first employed by Andre^e. The apparatus consists of a 
small bulb, containing the volatile liquid, placed in the space whose 
temperature is to be maintained constant. The end of the tube on 
which this bulb is blown is connected with a gas-interrupter by means 
of a rubber tube filled with mercury. This interrupter consists of a 



252 PHYSICS. 

glass tube over the lower end of which the rubber tube slips, within 
which is a second glass tube conveying the gas, and which continues 
down nearly to the mercury level. The gas enters by this tube, escapes 
at its lower end, passes up between the two, and goes to the burner 
through a lateral tube. If the temperature rises too high the mercury 
column cuts off' the supply of gas by the increased tension of the vapor ; 
a by-pass preventing complete extinction of the flame. The interrupter 
is attached to a board which slides up and down along a graduated 
scale, by means of which the pressure upon the volatile liquid can be 
made to balance its tension at any temperature. Using methyl alcohol, 
for example, its tension at 10° C is SO'"'", at 50° is 382«ii", at 70° is 857^"^, 
at lOQo is 24115"™. So that with this liquid constant temperatures be. 
tween these extremes may be had. For other temperatures other liquids 
more or less volatile than methyl alcohol can be used in its stead. — 
{J. Phys., viii, 34G, October, 1879.) 

Edison made use of his tasimeter for measuring the heat of the solar 
corona at the eclipse of July, 1878. In an account subsequently pub- 
lished he gives figures of the instrument and describes the method of 
using it. A carbon button is inclosed in a heavy metallic semi-conical 
box. Upon this button rests a metallic plate holding the lower end of a 
strip of vulcanite, the upper end of which is held by a screw which is 
capable of nice adjustment. When radiant heat is allowed to fall on 
the vulcanite strip, it expands and i)roduces pressure on the carbon, 
thus reducing its resistance and causing an increase in the strength of 
any current which may be flowing through it at the time. Ordinarily 
the tasimeter is made one side of a Wheatstone bridge. To balance it, 
at Eawlins, a method of "fractional balancing" was devised, which con- 
sisted of a rheostat formed of an iron wire, No. 24, 4 feet long, wound be- 
tween two rows of pins on a board, used as a shunt around the galva- 
nometer. When the pins of one row were all connected by a piece of cop- 
per wire, the resistance of the shunt was so low that only a feeble current 
passed through the galvanometer, and it was easy to balance it by ad- 
iusting the tasimeter. The copper wire was then taken off a single pin, 
increasing the resistance of the shunt by -^^ ohm, and the spot of 
light, deflected nearly off the scale, was again brought to zero. And so 
on until the whole shunt was removed, and the whole current was used 
on the galvanometer. Its sensitiveness was now adjusted by raising the 
dami)ing magnet until the top of the rod was reached. In this condi- 
tion it easily indicated the heat of Arcturus focused on the vulcanite by 
a 4-inch object-glass. But upon the corona the deflection was so violent 
that the spot of light passed off the scale not to return. — {Am. J. Sci., 
Ill, xvii, 52, January, 1879.) 

Eidout proposes to show the expansion of glass, as a class experiment, 
very neatly, by bending a glass tube of small diameter and 18 inches 
long into the form of a horseshoe, so that the free ends approach each 
other within a millimeter. Sx)ringing these ends apart and introducing 



PHYSICS. 253 

a coin, it will be held there owiiif? to the elasticity of the glass. On 
warming now the outer surface of the glass it expatids and the coin drops 
out. LeConte, apropos of this, gives an equally striking method for 
showing the same thing, first observed by Orme in 1740. A straight 
glass tube, 50 or GO"'" in length and one or two in diameter, is placed 
transversely before the fire, supported horizontally near its two ends on 
rods of hard wood of about the same diameter, carefully leveled. It 
will now roll toward the fire. If the supporting rods be transferred in- 
ward so as to support the tube near its middle, the tube will gradually 
roll from the fire. In this case the expansion of the glass l)y the heat is 
the moving cause, the falling of the side thus made convex ]H*oducing 
the motion.— (P/t?7. Mag.^ June, 1880 j Nature^ xxii, 157, 318, 1880.) 

Villari has experimented to determine the law of the production of 
heat by the electric spark in gases. He used a glass globe of about a 
liter capacity, having two horizontal and two vertical tubulures. By the 
former, the electrodes entered the globe ; the upper vertical one carried 
a stopcock, and the lower a tube plunged in a diluted glycerin, serving 
as a thermometer. Care was taken to protect the globe from loss or 
gain of heat. The results are given in three laws : 1st, the heat devel- 
oped by the electric spark in gases is directly proportional to the quan- 
tity of electricity which produces it ; 2d, the quantity of heat developed 
l)y the electric spark increases in the proportion of its length ; 3d, the 
heat and also the galvanometric deviations produced by the discharge 
of a condenser are independent of its surface. The result was not af- 
fected by the direction of the spark. — [J. Phys., ix, 5, January, 1880.) 

Barrett has studied the phenomena presented by the Trevelyan rocker, 
and has come to the conclusion that the theory which ascribes the mo- 
tion to the rapid expansion and contraction of the metals in contact is 
not the correct one. He believes this motion to be due to the action of 
a polarized layer of gas between the hot and cold surfiices, like that ex- 
isting between the hot and cold surfaces of the layer of vapor support- 
ing a drop of liquid in the spheroidal state, termed by Stoney a ^' Crookes 
layer:'— {N'ature, xsi, 426, March, 1880.) 

Carnelley, from certain of his experiments, concluded that in order to 
convert a solid into a liquid, the pressure must be above a certain point, 
which he calls the "critical pressure" of the substance, otherwise no 
amount of heat will melt the substance ; just as in converting a gas into a 
liquid the temperature must be below the critical temperature, or no 
amount of pressure will liquefy the gas. As a deduction from his law, it 
follows that, provided the pressure be below the critical pressure, solid 
ice may be heated to temperatures far above its melting point, passing 
then directly into the gaseous condition without previously liquefying. 
He therefore tried the experiment, and he succeeded in obtaining "soUd 
ice at temperatures so high that it was impossible to touch it without 
burning one's self." Not only so, but water has been frozen in a glass 
vessel which was so hot that it could not be touched by the hand with- 



254 PHYSICS. 

out burning it. Ice lias been maintained for some time at temperatures 
far above the boiling point of water, and then it sublimed away with- 
out previous melting. The pressure necessary was found to be anything 
below 4.6°^™ of mercury, the tension of aqueous vapor at 0° C. In the case 
of mercuric chloride, these i)henomena may readily be produced, since 
the critical pressure for this substance is only 420™™. In commenting 
on these results, LeConte has called attention to their agreement with 
well-known facts. Of course it is understood that it is the vessel which 
is hot, not the ice; and that the temperature of the ice must be pre- 
served at 0° by the rapid evaporation of it in the solid state. In this 
sense, the phenomena are comparable to those of Boutigny on the 
spheroidal state, and of Faraday on freezing mercury in a red-hot cru- 
cible. Substances are known which sublime without melting. Such 
bodies have their boiling points below their fusing points. By subject- 
ing them to pressure, their boiling points may be raised above their 
fusing points. Thus metallic arsenic, which sublimes without fusing at 
180°, melts under pressure below a red heat. The rapid evaporation 
prevents the body from reaching the fusing temperature. Conversely, 
by diminishing the pressure its boiling point is lowered below that of 
fusion. He gives a noteworthy quotation from Eegnault, published in 
1865: "It is evident that a volatile solid body may be always subjected 
to so slight a pressure that it will boil at a temperature inferior to 
that at which it melts. Thus ice at the temperature of — 1° C. possesses 
an elastic force represented by 4.27™™; in other words, it boils at a 
temperature of — 1° C. under a pressure of 4.27™™. Ice may therefore be 
entirely volatilized by ebullition under this feeble pressure without 
reaching its point of fusion, which is 0° C." — {Nature, xxii, 434, 603, Sep- 
tember, October, 1880.) 

Thomson has communicated to the British Association a method for 
determining the critical temperature for any liquid and its vapor with- 
out mechanism. The pure liquid is placed in a glass tube about 60<=™ 
long, about 3 or 4*=™ of the upper portion being occui)ied by the vapor. 
The tube is then hermetically sealed and placed in a vertical position. 
The upper part is then warmed until the surface of separation of liquid 
and vapor sinks below S'^™ from the top. Then warm the lower part 
containing the liquid till the surface rises again to a convenient position. 
Operate thus, keeping the surface of seiDaration at as nearly as possible 
a constant position of 3<=™ from the top of the tube until the surface of 
separation disappears. The temi^erature of the tube at the place where 
the surface of separation was seen immediately before disappearance is 
the critical temperature. — {Nature, xxiii, 87, November, 1880.) 

Von Burg has presented a pajier to the Vienna Academy on the action 
of safety-valves on boilers. He shows among other things that the 
authoritative directions given in different countries as to the size of 
safety-valves are not at all adequate, being based on erroneous concep- 
tions. As to the cause of the small amount of the lifting of the valve 



PHYSICS. 255 

during escape of steam (seldom over ^ '"'"), a vibratory inotioii of this 
valve was at first supposed by the author ; but further study aud exjieri- 
ment led him to the hypothesis that the steam jets in lifting the valve 
do not begin to move from its middle point but from the periphery of a 
circle p out to the circumference of the valve of radius r ; so that the 
pressure of steam on the under surface of the valve is composed of two 
parts, of which the inner or aerostatic is i^roduced 1|7 the solid steam 
cylinder of radius p and the outer or weak aerodynamie part by the ex- 
teniiil hollow cylinder of r — p thickness of wall. The j^hases of develop- 
ment of steam tension were also investigated. — {Nature, xxi, 189, Decem- 
ber, 1879.) 

Aitken has propounded the rather remarkable theory that dust is the 
germ of which fogs and clouds are the developed phenomena. Steam 
was mixed with air in two large glass receivers, one of which contained 
filtered the other unflltered air. In the former the steam condensed in 
its well-known cloudy form, while in the filtered air no clo^^diness what- 
ever appeared. From these and similar experiments the author con- 
cludes : 1st, that whenever water vapor condenses in the atmosphere it 
always does so on some solid nucleus ; 2d, that dust-particles in the air 
form the nuclei on which the vapor condenses; 3d, that if there was no 
dust there would be no fogs, no clouds, no mists, and probably no rain, 
aud that the supersaturated air would convert every object on the surface 
of the earth into a condenser on which it would deposit ; and 4th, that 
our breath when it becomes visible on a cold morning, and every puff of 
steam as it escapes into the air, show the impure and dusty condition 
of our atmosphere. The importance of these results, meteorologically, is 
very great. — {Nature., xxiii, 195, December, 1880.) 

2. Conduction and Radiation. 

Weber has made a series of experiments upon the conductibility of 
liquids for heat, resting in i^rinciple upon Fourier's theory. Sup- 
pose a thin liquid layer bounded by two parallel metallic i)lates, the 
whole possessing a uniform temperature. At a given instant the lower 
plate is cooled to 0° aud the w^hole system is inclosed in a space at 0°. 
By determining the law of the variation of the temperature at the 
center of the upper plate, the coefficient of conduction may be calcu- 
lated. The experiment was made as follows : Upon a x>late of copper 
O.Oo™ in thickness, three small slips of glass 2 to 3™™ thick were placed 
to support the second i:>late of copper. This plate was perforated at 
ceuter by a small hole through which the liquid was introduced until it 
formed a slightly convex meniscus at the edges of the plates, care being 
taken to leave no bubble of air. When the whole had acquu-ed the tem- 
perature of the laboratory one of the junctions of a thermo-electric cou])le 
was put in contact with the center of the upper plate, the other remain- 
ing in the melting ice. An aperiodic oscillation galvanometer in the 
drcuit gave, by a simple reading, the electromotive force, and so 



ii 



256 PHYSICS. 

the temperature of the iijjper plate. By the help of a pnlley and cord, 
the two plates thus prepared were placed on a thick and flat plate 
of ice and immediately covered with a double cylinder filled with ice. 
The lower plate takes at once the temperature of the ice and remains so; 
in one or two minutes the circuit of the galvanometer is closed and the 
position of the needle read every 20 seconds. The value of 1c, in absolute 
C. G. S. units, wf s found for carbon disulphide, 0.0250 ; for benzene, 
0.0200 ; for water, 0.0745 ; copper sulphate, 0.0710 ; for zinc sulphate, 
0.0691 to 0.0711 ; salt, 0.0692 ; alcohol, 0.0292 ; ether, 0.0243 ; chloroform, 
0.0220 ; oil lemon, 0.0210 ; olive oil, 0.0235 ; glycerin, 0.0402. These results 
in general agree with those obtained by Lundquist. — {J. Phys., ix, 169, 
May, 1880.) 

Crova has projjosed a purely optical method for measuring high tem- 
peratures, founded upon the principle that two incandescent bodies, 
having the same radiating power, are at the same temperature when 
the spectra which they give are identical in extent. The instrument 
which he has devised for these measurements he calls a spectropyrom- 
eter. It is composed of a direct- vision spectroscope, having a slit in 
the eye-piece to limit the field, and having the observing telescope mov- 
able about an axis perpendicular to the length of the spectrum, its play 
beinglimited to wave-length 676, and on the other side to wave-length 523. 
Over half the slit is a total-reflection prism, and in front of the slit is a 
Mcol prism in the center of a graduated circle, a second Mcol being' 
placed either between this and the lamp, or preferably just behind the 
slit of the collimator. To measure the temperature of a body in optical 
degrees the telescope is first directed to the fixed point in the red, the two 
Nicols are put at 0°, and the intensities of the two spectra made equal, 
either by moving the moderator-lamp used as the standard farther off, or 
by rotating a Nicol placed between the body and the reflecting prism. 
The telescope is then moved to wave-length 523 in the green, and two 
green images are obtained of unequal intensities. If the temperature of 
the body is less than that of the lamp (below 2000° C.) the greens are 
made equal by rotating the Nicol. If a be the angle of rotation the in- 
tensity is equal to 1000 cos ^a if the temperature of the lamp is 1000 optical 
degrees. To calibrate the instrument, the temperature of the lamp flame 
was comj)ared with that of an air-thermometer with a i^orcelain bulb 
heated in a furnace until the spectra of the two were identical throughout. 
In this way Crova finds in optical degrees the following values for the 
sources examined : Platinum strip heated to redness in a gas flame, 524; 
the same heated to a white heat in a gas blow-pipe flame, 810; moderator- 
lamp fed with colza oil, 1000 ; stearin candle, 1162; illuminating gas (Ap- 
gand burner), 1373; oxyhydrogen light (oxygen and coal gas on lime), 
1806 ; electric light (60 Bunsen cells), 3060 ; solar light, 4049. The author 
hopes to compare in this way the intensities of the simple radiations of 
incandescent vapors, provided that the spectrum consists of more than 
a single line. — {Ann. Chim. Phys., V, xix, 472, April, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 257 

Mouton, in an elaborate memoir, lias given the results of his experi- 
ments to determine the wave-length of dark heat rays by a method 
depending- on the position of interference bands in polarized light. In 
the formula the wave-length appears as a function of the thickness of 
the interfering film, of the difference of the indices for the two rays of 
this wave length, and of the number of wave-lengths concerned. By 
the measurement of these values the wave-length was easily calculated. 
The result obtained is noteworthy, since it gives us a wave-length 
actually measured of 0.002140'"™, or 2.14 lu If this be compared 
with the wave-length of the ultraviolet line R, measured by Mas- 
cart, 0.00031775, it will be seen that the wave length of this ultra-red 
line is more than six and a half times greater. The entire ether gamut 
known is more than two and a quarter octaves, while the total chemical 
and luminous radiation covers scarcely a single one. — {Ann. Chim. Pliys., 
V, xviii, 145, 1870 5 J. Phijs., viii, 393, December, 1879 ; ix, 1 13, April, 
1880.) 

Eosetti has given a series of measurements upon the temperature of 
the voltaic arc, using a method which consists in receiving upon the 
face of a thermopile placed at a convenient distance, rays emitted from 
a surface of known area, and measuring the thermic effect on a sensitive 
galvanometer. The following are his conclusions: 1st. The carbon pos- 
itive pole from the moment of the production of the electric light has 
always a higher temperature than the negative. 2d. These tempera- 
tures vary according to the variation in the strength of the current. 
3d. They are as much higher as the radiating surface is smaller, pro- 
vided, obviously, that the end of the point be included. 4th. For the 
negative pole the minimum temperature was found to be 1910° C, the 
radiating surface being large and not very brilliant in some places. The 
maximum temperature observed was 2532° C, the radiating surface being 
one-half the preceding. 5th. For the positive pole the minimum temper- 
ature found was 2312*^ C, the carbon being very large and the radiating 
surface extended. For the maximum temperature, 3200° C, where the 
carbon was thin and the radiating surface nearly one-fourth of that cor- 
responding to the minimum temi^erature. Gth. The extreme T^oint of 
the negative carbon may be considered at 2500° C. at least; that of the 
positive carbon not less than 3200°. — {Ann. Chim. Phys., V, xviii, 457, 
December, 1879 ; J. PJiys., viii, 257, August, 1879.) 

Eosettihas published also an extended memoiron the temperature of the 
sun, giving the experimental methods employed and the results obtained. 
For the purpose of determining the law of radiation as a function of the 
temperature, the thermopile, which was connected with a Wiedemann re- 
flection galvanometer, received the heat radiated from a Leslie cube, con- 
taining water for the lower and mercury for the higher temperatures, 
up to 300° C. Accurate thermometers gave the temperatures of the air 
outside and of the liquid inside the cube. From the data thus obtained 
an empirical formula was derived, which the author thinks rei)resents 
S. Mis. 31 17 



258 PHYSICS. • 

the facts better than that of Dulong and Petit. From this, results were 
calculated for temperatures beyond 300° and up to 2000°, which agreed 
well with those derived from experiment. The apparatus was then ap- 
plied to the determination of the solar temperature. The thermopile 
was placed where the direct rays of the sun could fall normally upon its 
face. Four readings of the galvanometer were made during each obser- 
vation : the first with open circuit to fix the zero point ; the second, with 
closed circuit, the case of the pile being closed ; the third, after opening 
the case to allow the heat rays to act ; the fourth, with the case open and 
the solar rays intercepted by a double- walled screen placed one meter off. 
This last reading was generally negative, the pile radiating heat into 
space. Calculated from these results it appeared that the thermic effect 
which would be produced by the solar radiation falling normally on the 
face of the pile, if the atmosphere did not exist, or if the pile were above 
it, is represented by 323 scale divisions. Since resistance was used in the 
circuit in the last exj)eriments, this value must be multiplied by 5.G931 
tomakeit comparable to the others; this gives 1838.5 divisions. Calling 
the effective temperature of the sun, that which an incandescent body 
of the same size placed at the same distance should have to produce the 
same effect, its emissive power being at the maximum, the formula gives 
as the absolute effective temperature of the sun 10238O.4, or in degrees 
centigrade, 99G5.4. The author concludes that if the absorption of our 
atmosphere only be taken into the account, the true temi)erature of the sun 
cannot be far inferior to ten thousand degrees. If the absorption pro- 
duced by the solar atmosphere be also considered, and Secchi's estimate 
of .88 be allowed for it, then this temperature is higher but not very far 
superior to twenty thousand degrees. — {A7in. Chim. Phys., V, xvi, 177, 
June, 1879.) 

Langley has compared the intensity of the solar-heat radiation with 
that of the incandescent surface of Bessemer steel in fusion as it flows 
from the converter. The temperature of this molten metal is above that 
at which platinum melts, a wire of this metal fusing in the gas stream 
issuing from the mouth of the converting vessel; hence it is from 1800° 
to 2000° C. The heat radiated from the liquid stream fell on one face of 
a thermopile, while a bundle of solar rays was reflected on to the other 
face. Though the apparant diameter of the opening of the converter 
was many times that of the sun, so much greater was the energy of the 
latter that a lens was interposed to form a magnified image of the sun 
on the pile, and it was diaphragmed to bring the needle to zero. Calcu- 
lating for equal diameters, the solar energy was found to be 8G times that 
of the molten metal at least. Photometric comparison showed the solar- 
light radiation to be 5,300 times that of the metal. Crova, in noting 
these experiments, calls attention to the rapid increase of light emitted 
by melted silver as the temperature rises, being 147 times greater at 
1200° than at 91G°, and hence 28,900 times at 1500°, as evidence that the 
sun's temperature is quite moderate compared with some of the calcu- 
lations made on the subject. — {J. Phys., ix, 59, February, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 259 

Crool:es lias made remarkable progress in studying the phenomena 
of molecular physics in high vacua, and has obtained results even more 
novel and striking than those connected with his marvelous little in- 
strument, the radiometer. In a paper read to the Royal Society Decem- 
ber 5, 1878, he showed that the dark space which suiTounds the negative 
pole in an ordinary vacuum tube illuminated by an induction coil, is the 
result of intense molecular vibration which excites a molecular disturb- 
ance in the surface of the disk and the surrounding gas. As the rare 
faction increases, this layer of molecular disturbance increases in thick- 
ness. At a pressure of 0.078"'"', it extends for 8'""' from the disk. It 
is greatest in hydrogen and least in carbon dioxide. jS^umerous ex- 
periments were devised to ascertain whether this visible layer of molec- 
ular disturbance was identical with the invisible layer of molecular 
pressure. A radiometer with aluminum disks, each coated with mica, 
when made the negative electrode, revolved rapidly as soon as the dark 
space is made by exhaustion to extend to the glass. Witli a cui)-shaped 
aluminum electrode, the convergence of the lines of force to a focus was 
very marked. When the exhaustion becomes very high the dark space 
fills the tube, and where the rays after divergence fall on the glass, a 
sharply-detined spot of greenish-yellow light appears. This greenish- 
yellow phosphorescence of molecular impact is due to the particular 
kind of glass used. Other kinds of glass give different colors. At 4 M 
exhaustion (M refers to millionths of an atmosphere) no other light than 
this is seen. At 0.9 M the i^hosphorescence reaches it maximum. At 
0.15 M the spark passes with difticulty and the light appears in flashes. 
At 0.06 M the vacuum is non-conducting, and only very intense sparks 
will pass. Beyond this nothing has been observed. The rays producing 
the green phosphorescence will not turn a corner. Hence a body in 
their patli intercepts them and casts, as it were, a shadow on the glass 
behind it. 

Mr, Crookes advances the theory, therefore, that the induction spark 
actually illuminates the lines of molecular pressure caused by the elec- 
trical excitement of the negative pole. The thickness of the dark space 
is the measure of the mean length of the path between successive col- 
lisions of the molecules. The extra velocity with which the molecules 
rebound from the excited negative pole keeps back the more slowly 
moving molecules which are advancing toward that pole. The con- 
flict occurs at the boundary of the dark space, where the luminous 
margin bears witness to the energy of the collisions. By using a rotat- 
ing fly it may be caused to revolve with high velocity by directing the 
molecular impact on one side of it. Moreover, these lines of molecular 
force are markedly deflected by a magnet, the action being to twist the 
trajectory of the molecules, the direction of twist when an electro-mag- 
net is used being that of the electric current round the magnet. When 
the magnet is so adjusted as to exert a uniform downward pull on the 
molecules, the trajectory is much curved at low exhaustions, and gets 



260 PHYSICS. 

flatter as tlie rarefication increases, exhibiting a close parallelism with 
tlie phenomena of projectiles. Moreover, great heat is produced by the 
impact of these molecules. A large hemispherical cup of aluminum 
used as the negative pole gives a focus in which platinum may be melted. 
The conditions in these high vacua are special. The free path of the 
molecules is so long that the average molecule is allowed to obey its 
own motions or laws without interference ; so that if this path is com- 
parable to the dimensions of the vessel, the properties which constitute 
gaseity are reduced to a minimum, and the matter becomes exalted to 
an ultra gaseous state. The phenomena in these tubes reveal a new 
world, a world where matter exists in a fourth state, where the corpus- 
cular theory of light holds good, and where light does not always move 
in a straight line. 

In a lecture on radiant matter, delivered at the Sheffield meeting 
of the British Association, August 22, 1879, Crookes discussed and 
elegantly illustrated the principles given in the paper above quoted. 
His vacua are thus grapliically described: "According to the best au- 
thorities a bulb of the size of the one before you (IS.S'^"^ in diameter) 
contains more than 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 (a quadrillion) of 
molecules. ISTow, when exhausted to the millionth of an atmosphere, 
we shall still have a trillion molecules left in the bulb, a number quite 
sufficient to justify me in speaking of the residue as matter. To suggest 
some idea of this vast number, I take the exhausted bulb and jierfor- 
ate it by a spark from the induction coil. The spark produces a hole 
of microscopical fineness, yet sufficient to allow molecules to i^enetrate 
and to destroy the vacuum. The inrush of air impinges against the 
vanes and sets them rotating after the manner of a wind-mill. Let us 
supi)ose the molecules to be of such a size that at every second of time 
a hundred millions could enter. How long, think you, would it take 
for this small vessel to get full of air ? An hour, a day, a year, a century ? 
Nay, almost an eternity ! A time so enormous that imagination itself 
cannot grasp the reality. Supposing this exhausted glass bulb, indued 
with indestructibility, had been pierced at the birth of the solar system; 
supposing it to have been ijresent when the earth was without form and 
void ', supposing it to have borne witness to all the stupendous changes 
evolved during the full cycles of geologic time — to have seen the first 
living creature appear, and the last man disappear; suj^posing it to sur- 
vive until. the fulfillment of the mathematician's prediction that the sun, 
the source of energy, four million centuries from its formation, will 
ultimately become a burntout cinder; supposing all this — at the rate of 
filling I have just described (100 million molecules a second) this little 
bulb even then would scarcely have admitted its full quadrillion of 
molecules. But what will you say if I tell you that all these molecules, 
this quadrillion of molecules, will enter through the microscopic hole 
before you leave this room? The hole being unaltered in size, the 
number of molecules undiminished, this apparent paradox can only be 



PHYSICS. 261 

explained by again supposing the size of the molecules to be diminished 
almost infinitely, so that instead of entering at the rate of 100 millions 
every second they troop in at the rate of something like 300 trillions a 
second. I have done the sum, but figures, when they mount so high, 
cease to have any meaning, and such calculations are as futile as trying 
to count the drops in the ocean." — [Proc. Roy. Soc, December 5, 1878 ; 
Fhil. Mag., January, 1879; Am. J. ScL, III, xvii, 218, March, 1879; xviii, 
241, October, 1879; Nature, xx, 228, 250, 419, 43G, 1879.) 

In a subsequent communication to the Eoyal Society, Crookes says that 
he has examined some of these phenomena more closely, and has con- 
firmed the molecular-stream hypothesis. If, however, the residual mole- 
cules, being negatively charged by contact with the negative ])ole, and so 
repelled, were solely acted on by the initial impulse from the negative 
pole, they would take a direction accurately normal to the surface re- 
pelling them, and would start with their full velocity. But the mole- 
cules, being all negatively electrified, exert mutual repulsion, and there- 
fore diverge laterally. The negative pole, likewise, not only gives an 
initial impulse to the molecules, but it also continues to act on them 
by repulsion, the result being that they move with an accelerating ve- 
locity the further they get from the pole. Within the dark space at a 
moderate exhaustion, the velocity does not accumulate to a sufficient 
extent to produce phosphorescence; but at higher exhaustions the 
mean free path is long enough to allow the molecules to get up speed 
sufficient to cause phosphorescence. The luminous boundary to the 
dark space around the negative pole is probably due to the impact of 
molecule against molecule, producing phosphorescence of the gas in the 
same way as the impact of molecules against German glass produces 
phosphorescence of the glass. The effect of deadening produced on 
glass by long-continued phosphorescence, which was illustrated by 
stenciling, by means of a discharge from the negative pole, the image 
of a maltese cross on the end of a large pear-shaped bulb, has been 
further developed by opening the bulb and heating the wide end in the 
blowpipe flame until soft and melted out of shape. It was then blown 
out again into its original shape and re-exhausted ; on connecting it 
with the coil, the original ghost of the cross was seen to be still there. 
At Maxwell's suggestion a third, idle, electrode was introduced into a 
tube. On connecting it with an electroscope, it appeared that when iu 
a direct line between the positive and negative poles, and receiving the 
full impact of the molecules driven from the negative ]>ole, it had a 
strong positive charge. The effect of magnetism on the discharge has 
been further examined, and this was found to be so sensitive that when 
the tube was placed parallel to the earth's equator, the earth's magnet- 
ism was sufficient to cause the spot of light to move five millimeters 
away from the i^osition it occupied when the tube was i>arallel to the 
dipping needle. Complete and orderly rotation of the molecular rays 
was obtained by placing an electro-magnet beneath the tube in a line 



262 PHYSICS. 

with the terminals. With reference to the heating effect of molecular 
bombardment, a plate of German glass was held in the focus and soon 
became red hot. Gas then appeared in the tube, which gave the hydro- 
gen spectrum. This was pumped out and the experiment repeated. 
The glass could bo heated to dull redness without evolution of gas, but 
when the heat approached the fusing point, the lines appeared. This 
hydrogen the author thinks comes from vapor of water which is obsti- 
nately held in the superficial pores, and which is not entirely driven off 
by anything short of actual fusion of the glass. From an experiment 
in which a hole in a mica disk was placed in front of a negative elec- 
trode of platinum, and the tube opposite the hole was not more darkened 
than the surrounding portions, Crookes infers that the molecular stream 
does not consist of i^articles of the negative pole shot off from it. With 
regard to the production of phosphorescence by impact in crystals, the 
conclusion is arrived at that the rays whose direction of vibration cor- 
responds to the direction of maximum optical elasticity in the crystal 
are always originated where any light is given out. — {Nature, xxii, 101, 
125, June, 1880.) 

More recently, Crookes has written a letter to the secretary of the 
Eoyal Society, in answer to a challenge from De la Rue, defining his 
position in reference to the ultra-gaseous or fourth state of matter. 
This letter concludes thus : " The molecule — intangible, in\isible, and 
hard to be conceived — is the only true matter, and that which we call 
matter is nothing more than the effect upon our senses of the move- 
ments of molecules, or, as John Stuart Mill expresses it, ' a permanent 
possibility of sensation.' The space covered by the motion of molecules 
has no more right to be called matter than the air traversed by a rifle 
bullet can be called lead. From this point of view, then, matter is but 
a mode of motion ; at the absolute zero of temperature the inter-molec- 
ular movement would stop, and although something retaining the prop- 
erties of inertia and weight would remain, matter, as we know it, would 
cease to exist." — {Proc. Boy. tSoc, June, 1880; Nature, xxii, 153, June, 
1880.) 

Marangoni has studied the diathermanous power of liquid films, using 
for this purpose soapy water. A series of equidistant films 8 or 10 in 
number was produced in a wide glass tube, and heat rays from a smoked 
plate at 400° were reflected through the tube by a mirror, a second 
mirror at the other end directing them on the face of the thermopile. 
He found, (1) that the first film absorbs more than half the heat, re- 
ducing the deflections from 38 to 18 divisions; (2) the successive films 
produce decrements as theory indicates ; (3) the diminution of intensity 
depends very little on reflection, but almost wholly on absorption; (4) 
the thinner the film the more diathermanous it becomes; (5) the dia- 
thermaneity is not sensibly affected by mixing various salts with the 
solution of soap. — {Nature, xxi, 620, April, 1880.) 

Lecher has made further experiments on the absorbing action of car- 



PHYSICS. 2G3 

bon dioxide for radiant heat, with especial reference to the effect of this 
gas in the atmosphere. Using a gas flame and a glass cylinder, 
he fonnd that a layer of the gas 214'"'° thick allowed 94.8 per cent, 
of the radiation to pass; 53G'"'" allowed 93.8 per cent.; and 917""" 89 
per cent. The sun's rays were proved to nn<lergo considerable weak- 
ening in their passage through carbon dioxide ; a layer of the gas one 
meter thick absorbing IS per cent, when the sun's altitude was 59^, 
diminishing as the sun got lower. The absorption of solar radiation 
hj carbon dioxide is selective therefore, the absorbable wave-lengths 
becoming rarer as the thickness of the atmosphere already traversed 
increases. From his experiments. Lecher calculates the proportion of 
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to bo 3.27 parts in 10,000 by volume. 
The agreement of this value with that obtained by direct chemical 
methods suggests that absori)tion is a good method for its rapid deter- 
mination in the air. — [J^ature, xxiii, 209, December, 1880.) 

3. Specific heat. 

Mile. Stamo has published as an inaugural dissertation at Zurich 
some researches upon the specific heat of water. In the first set of experi- 
ments a brass calorimeter was used, filled to within one centimeter of 
the top with copper turnings loosely packed. Into this the water, 
heated gradually in a copper vessel placed in an oil bath, was poured. 
The high conducting power of the copper turnings rendered it unneces- 
sary to agitate the liquid. The author having determined in advance, 
as exactly as possible, the specific heat of copper as compared with 
water at ordinary temjierjitures, the comparison could easily be made 
with the water heated to 60^ or 80^. The mean of the coefficient of va- 
riation of the specific heat of water is 0.0012550. In the second set 
of experiments, the same electric current was passed through wires of 
platinum, or of German silver, about 3™'" long, rolled on rubber frames 
and immersed in calorimeters full of water, one being surrounded 
with ice, and the other with water at a constant^ temperature t. From 
the heating observed, the specific heaf s at 0° and at ^o were calculated. 
In this way the variation coefficient was found to be 0.000859, a value 
of the same order as in the first case. — {J. Phys., ix, 138, April, 1880.) 

Witz has examined the cooling power of air at high pressures with a 
view to verify the exactitude of the law of Dulong and Petit, according 
to which the heat removed at each instant from a body by any gas sur- 
rounding it depends only upon the excess of temperature of the body 
above the surrounding medium, and upon the pressure of the gas. The 
api^aratus consisted of a cast-iron cylinder of 13 liters capacity, strong 
enough to sustain a i)ressure of 10 atmospheres, lampblacked on its in- 
terior. Within this was placed a cylindrical cup of thin iron, 51'"™ long 
and 27""" in diameter, surmounted by a tube 8™"^ diameter, by which it 
is adjusted to the center of the large cylinder. The cup holds 200 grams 
of mercury, and the stem of a thermometer is plunged into it. The 



264 PHYSICS. 

volume of tlie outer cylinder is 400 times that of the inner. In making 
an experiment the 200 grams of mercury, weighed with care, is heated 
in an iron vessel, and i^oured into the central cup. The thermometer is 
at once immersed in it, and its temi)erature noted by means of a tele- 
scope a meter distant. The time of passage of the column from five 
to five, or from ten to ten divisions is noted on a chronograph. The 
pressures experimented with were from 7G0 to 0,400™™; and the general 
result obtained was that the law of Dulong and Petit ceased to be ap- 
plicable at about 1,520™™, the pressure exponent passing from 0.45 to 
0.G5 ; though at 3,040™™ it was 0.54, and at 6,080™™, 0.44. Studying the 
phenomena more carefully between 800 and 2,000™™, Witz found that 
Dulong's law represented the facts from 800 to 1,200™™ ; and that from 
1,200 to 1,000™™ there was a very rapid change, the exponent rising to 
0.85, the curve of velocities presenting a point of inflection near this 
l^ressure. This the author shows in a graphic curve. — {Ann. Chim. Fhys., 
Y, xviii, 208, October, 1879.) 

LIGHT. 

1. Rejiectlon and Refraction. 

Schwendler has proposed a new light-unit founded upon the ignition 
of a strip of platinum, as originally suggested in 1844 hy Draper and in 
1859 by Zolluer, and put into practical use for electrical illumination by 
Farmer also in 1859. This unit of luminous intensity is given by a cur- 
rent of 6.15 webers passing through a platinum strip 2™™ wide, 36.28™™ 
long, and 0.017™™ thick, weighing 0.0204 gram, having a calculated re- 
sistance of 0.109 mercury-unit, and an actual resistance (including that 
at the two contacts) of 0.143 mercury-unit at the temperature of 06^ F. 
This strip should be of pure metal, cut into the U-form, and connected 
by large conductors with eight Grove cells of low resistance. The cur- 
rent is maintained constant by means of a mercury rheostat, in the form 
of a U-shaped groove, a millimeter in cross-section and a meter long, 
cut in a board and filled with mercury. A copper bridge movable along 
this groove enables the current to be kept constant, as indicated on a gal- 
vanometer. The P. L. S. (platinum light standard) is equal to nearly 
0.7 standard candle. The economy of this light in comparison with that 
of the voltaic arc is over 70 times in favor of the arc. — {Phil. Mag., V, 
viii, 392, November, 1879 ; J. Phys., ix, 135, April, 1880.) 

Eder has suggested a chemical photometer. The solutions are pre- 
pared by dissolving separately, each in one liter of water, 40 grams of 
ammonium oxalate and 50 grams of mercuric chloride (corrosive sub- 
limate). When used, two volumes of the former solution are mixed 
with one volume of the latter, and exposed to the light. The liquid be- 
comes turbid, and a black precipitate is thrown down. The weight of 
this precipitate per square centimeter of surface exposed to the light 
gives the measure of its intensity. — {Ber. Ale. Wien, 1879, 240 ; J. Phys., 
ix, 110, March, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 265 

Gouy has iuvcstigated the photometry of colored flames, and has de- 
vised a spectroscoi^e by which various sources of light of difJereut colors 
may be compared with others, the comparison being made in parts of 
their spectra having the same tints. The spectroscope is an ordinary 
two-prism instrument, the collimator having its objective half covered 
vnth. a plate of plane glass so inclined that the light from a. second colli- 
mator falling on its face is reflected into the prisms. The eye, therefore, 
sees in the observing telescope two spectra in exact coincidence, one 
coming from each of the two collimators. One of these comes from a 
gas flame, and is continuous ; the other is a bright line spectrum com- 
ing from an incandescent vapor. By means of two Nicol prisms the 
intensity. of the former may be regulated. The angle between these 
prisms measures the illuminating power. The author shows that for 
wide bands, and for continuous spectra, their transparence is complete. 
For narrow lines, it appears not to be true; that for each simple ray the 
emissive and the absorptive power depend only on the quantity of vapor 
contained in a right cylinder having a unit base, and for its height the 
thickness of the layer; that two layers of vapor at the same temperature, 
which give the same brilliance to a given line, have identically the same 
vapor quantity and are optically alike ; and that the widening of lines 
is a necessary consequence of the fact that the radiation of the vapor is 
a continuous function of the wave-length, which does not disappear be- 
yond the lines, but forms a background of continuous spectrum, which 
is never wanting when the illumination is sufiiciently brilliant. — {Aim. 
Cliim. Phys., V, xviii,5, September, 1879; J. Phys., ix, 19, January, 1880.) 

Michelson read at the Saratoga meeting of the American Association 
a paper describing his experimental determination of the velocity of light. 
The method which he employed was Foucault's, with a revolving mirror, 
but in which some modifications were introduced. The chief of these 
■was the replacement of Foucault's spherical mirror by a plane mirror, 
thus enabling the distance between this mirror and the revolving mirror 
to be increased indefinitely. To make the displacement of the returned 
image as great as possible, the distance from the slit to the revolving 
mirror and the speed of rotation should also be increased. But increas- 
ing the first distance diminishes the second, from the laws of conjugate 
foci. This difficulty was overcome by ilsing a lens of 150 feet focus, and 
by placing the revolving mirror 15 feet within the principal focus of the 
lens. In the experiments the distance between the two mirrors was 
nearly 2,000 feet, and the distance from the slit to the revolving mirror 
was about 30 feet, the speed of the rotating mirror being about 257 rev- 
olutions per second. The deflection obtained exceeded 133'"™, being 
about 200 times that obtained by Foucault. This deflection was meas- 
ured to within three or four hundredths of a millimeter, and the result 
therefore may be regarded as correct within one ten-thousandth part. 
The mirror was rotated by an air turbine on the same axle, the pressure 
of air being kept constant by means of a water-gauge. An electrically 



266 PHYSICS. 

vibrated tnning-fork was used to regulate and measure the speed, the 
light from the revolving mirror being reflected from a steel mirror on 
one of the prongs to a piece of plane glass in front of the eye-piece, and 
thence to the eye. When the mirror makes as many turns as the fork 
makes vibrations, or when these are in simple ratio to each other, the 
two images become stationary. The electric fork made 128 vibrations, 
and was compared at each set of observations with a standard Uts fork 
making 256.072 vibrations at 65° F. The deflection was measured with 
an accurate micrometer. The results are given in 100 readings, each of 
which is the mean of ten separate observations. The mean value cor- 
rected for temperature, for the velocity of light in air is 200,804 kilome- 
ters per second. Adding 80 kilometers to reduce it to vacuo, this value 
becomes 299,9-14 kilometers, with a probable error of ±51 kilometers. — 
This gives 180,380 miles per second reduced to English measure. — {Am. 
J. Scl, III, xviii, 390, l^ovember, 1879.) 

Ayrton has given a lecture at the Eoyal Institution upon magic mir- 
rors, the effects of which, as it appears, so far from being intended, were 
quite unknown to the Japanese, though known to the Chinese from the 
earliest times. On reflecting a divergent beam of light from such a 
mirror, Ayrton found that the pattern on the back appeared bright on 
a dark ground ; with a parallel beam no pattern could be seen ; while 
with a convergent beam the pattern was dark on a light ground. Hence, 
the eflect must be caused by inequalities in tlie curvature of the reflect- 
ing surface corresponding to the raised pattern on the back, the portions 
where the relief increases the thickness of the plate being flatter than 
the remaining convex surface, and sometimes actually concave. The 
result is very exceptional, being shown well in only 2 or 3 i)er cent, of 
the mirrors made. It is produced when the bronze casting is worked 
sufiiciently thin to determine a buckling of the metal. — {Xafure, xix, 186, 
539, December, 1878; April, 1879.) 

Govi presented to the Turin Academy in 1864 a valuable historical 
paper upon the magic mirrors of the Chinese, called by them Tlicon- 
Icoiiany-kim^ or mirrors which the light can penetrate. In this he shows 
that if the mirror be heated from behind the thin portions heat most 
rapidly, become more convex, and the magic eilect is made more marked. 
Bertin, associating himself with Duboscq, sought to improve upon this 
suggestion of Govt's, by varying the curvature by ])ressure. A frame 
was constructed for holding the mirror so that air could be forced in 
behind it to make its surface more convex, or exhausted to make it con- 
cave. A mirror in nickel-plated brass, on the back of which figures 
were engraved and relief ornaments soldered, became very magic by 
pressure, giving simultaneously a dark image of the depressed designs 
and light images of those in relief — {Ann. Chim. Phys., V. xx, 99, 110, 
143, May, 1880; J. Phys., ix, 401, December, 1880.) 

Bibart has shown that although the images produced in the kaleid- 
oscope are sharp when looked at directly, whatever be the angle between 



PHYSICS. 267 

the mirrors, tbis is true of projected images only when the angle between 
the mirrors is an even snbmultiple of the circumference. For this projec- 
tion the light should be concentrated upon the object, say a small hole 
in a blackened screen. Behind this screen are the blackened mirrors, 
one horizontal, and behind these a lens for producing the image on the 
screen. If the inclination of the second mirror be varied, the number 
of the images increases by doubling one of them. — {J.Phys., ix, 11. Jan- 
uary, 1880.) 

Blcekrode has measured the indices of refraction of cyanogen, carbon 
dioxide, and ammonia, liquefied in a Faraday tube having parallel sides 
at one end. He used the method of determining the index by the dis- 
placement of an object seen with a microscopic objective when the space 
at first empty is tilled with the liquefied gas. The index of cyanogen, 
at 13°, for the sodium line, was found to be 1.320; of carbon dioxide at 
19°, 1.163; of ammonia at IT^.S, in sunlight, 1.314. The index of zinc- 
ethyl was obtained as 1.489. The above value for CO2 is very near that 
obtained by Brewster in 1826, for a liquid contained in a cavity in Bra- 
zilian topaz, undoubtedly liquid CO2. — {Ann. Pliys. Chcm., II, viii, 400, 
1879 ; J. Phys., ix, 141, April, 1880.) 

Bertin has described an inverting prism devised by Duboscci for use 
with the lantern, in cases where the object cannot itself be inverted. It 
consists of a right-angled isosceles i^rism whose hypothenuse is placed 
parallel to the axis of a convergent beam of light, its center coinciding 
with the focal point. Under these circumstances the beam is totally 
reflected irom the base of the prism and inverted. In practice, two of 
these prisms are placed in the beam from the lantern, with their bases 
together. The use of a prism for this purpose is not new ; it is figured 
in Brewster's Optics (London, 1853, p. 454,) where it is described for the 
same purpose. More recently (J. Fr. Inst, Ixiii, 375, 1872) Zeutmayer 
has constructed an inverting prism for the microscope, which he has 
also used' for the lantern, and which would seem to be more effective so 
far as amount of light is concerned than the Duboscq arrangement. — 
{J. Fhys., viii, 336, October, 1879.) 

Gariel has proposed some ingenious mechanical models for illustrat- 
ing the relations of the foci of lenses. Two rods are articulated on a 
line perpendicular to the axis of the lens — drawn in section — at a point 
near its circumference. These rods are attached near their ends to op- 
posite parts of a cord which moves over pulleys attached to the frame. 
Sincje the angle between the rods remains constant, by moving the cord 
the variations in the positions of intersection of the rods with the axis, 
i. e., the foci, may be clearly shown. A noteworthy modification of 
this model enables the optical i)heuomena of the eye, accommodation, 
emmetropia, myopia, and hypermetropia, to be shown distinctly to an 
entire class. — (</. Fhys., ix, 340, October, 1880.) 

Stevenson has suggested an instrument for exploring dark cavities 
which are inaccessible to direct light. It is simply a train of i)risms by 



268 PHYSICS. 

which the ray is properly bent, these prisms being suitably achroma- 
tized. Light is thrown into them from a mirror at the end of the train. 
This traverses the system, illarainates the object by reflection from the 
last surface, also a mirror, and then returns over the same path, passing 
to the eye through an opening in the first mirror. The number of prisms 
which may be used is limited only bj^ the light and the definition. — [Na- 
ture, xxi, 14, November, 1879.) 

Joseph Le Conte has continued his researches on binocular vision, and 
has published a paper on the laws of ocular motion. The conclusion 
which he reaches is that when the eyes move in the same direction, 
parallel to each other, as in ordinary vision of objects, all their motions 
are governed by the law of Listing; i. e., they are effected without rota- 
tion on the optic axes. But when, on the contrary, they move in oppo- 
site directions, as in strong convergence, then the law of Listing is en- 
tirely abrogated or overborne and another law reigns in its place. — ( A/w. 
J. Sci., Ill, XX, 83, August, 1880.) 

Steinhauser has pointed out a fixed relation between the size and rel- 
ative position of the two views of a stereoscopic picture, the lenses of 
the camera with which it is taken, and the optical arrangements of the 
stereoscope in which it is to be viewed. If these relations are rightly 
observed the effect of relief will be much more perfectly attained for all 
parts of the picture. The eye-pieces of the stereoscope above the plane 
of the photographic pictures ought to be made as nearly as may be 
equal to the focal length of the objective of the photographers camera, 
and this again should be about equal to the mean distance of easy 
vision, or from 10 to 12 inches. Hence he suggests: 1st, that all stereo- 
photographs should be taken with lenses of the same focal length, say 
15'='^.; 2d, that all should be made of equal breadth or about 75™"; 
and 3d, that the distance between the centers of the objective lenses 
should be constant. — {Nature, xxi, 117, December, 1879.) 

Obach has made a series of experiments to determine whether the 
phosphorescent light of Balmain's paint would produce any sensible 
effect on the conductivity of selenium. For this purpose a Siemens 
selenium cell was used, which was exposed to a j)hosphorescent surface 
20 by SOc'", placed at G0<='" distance. When exposed to the light reflected 
from the ceiling of a semi-dark room, the light from the phosphorescent 
surface reduced the conductivity of the selenium 0.7 per cent.; light 
from the ceiling of a well-lighted room for 15 minutes, 2.4 per cent.; 
light of sky at 5 p. m. for several minutes, 4.6 per cent.; light from 
few inches magnesium ribbon, 5.1 per cent. ; sunlight for two minutes, 
7.8 per cent. The influence of 350 square centimeters of luminous sur- 
face, excited by diffused daylight, was found equal to 0.0014 standard 
candle or 0.04 standard candle per square meter. — {Nature, xxii, 496, 
September, 1880.) 

Graham Bell presented to the American Association at its Boston 
meeting a paper by himself and Tainter on the production and repro- 



PHYsrcs. 269 

duction of sound by lij^lit. The apparatus devised for the purpose lie 
calls a pbotophoue; and its action is based ou the fact that when an in- 
termittent beam of light is made to fall on a disk of almost any mate- 
rial, this disk emits sounds whose pitch is the; same as the number of 
nitermissions. The substance most sensitive, however, is selenium, 
whi(;h, as is well known, diminishes in its electrical conductivity by the 
action of light. When therefore an electric current was passed through 
a selenium cell and a telephone, the intermittent beam of light falling 
on the selenium varied its resistance so as to reproduce an intermittent 
electrical current of the same pitch distinctly audible in the telephone. 
The cell was made of disks of brass, alternating with slightly smaller 
disks of mica, the metal disks being alternately united electrically. In 
the grooves between these metal disks melted selenium was placed, and 
the whole was heated to such a temj^erature that the selenium passed 
into the crystalline state. This cell, placed in the focus of a parabolic 
mirror, constituted the receiver. The transmitter consisted simply of a 
sheet of mica or thin glass, silvered, against the back of which the voice 
could be directed by means of a mouth-piece. Ui)on this abeam of con- 
densed sunlight was allowed to fall, whence it was reflected to the dis- 
tant receiver. Ou talking into the mouth-piece, the beam of light varied 
correspondingly, and the spoken words became audible in the tele- 
l^hone. — (Am. J. Sei., HI, xx, 305, October, 1880. See also An)i. Chim. 
Fhys., V, xxi, 399, 5(30, 1880 5 Nature, xxii, 500; xxiii, 10, 58, 1880.) 

Mercadier has studied the simi)ler forms of the photophone, which he 
calls radiophone, a sort of optical siren, in which a rotating disk i)ierced 
with holes is interposed in the i^ath of light-rays, causing intermittences 
of a i)eriod corresponding to the speed. The disk used is simply a sheet 
of black paper gummed on a glass disk to avoid the whistling sound 
noticed with perforated disks. The receiving disks were tixed in a suit- 
able holder, at the end of a short hearing-tube of India rubber. When 
the substance used was opaque, like zinc, copper, etc., the loudness is 
the same, whether polished or not. Thin disks are better than thick 
ones, and glass and quartz gave good results. A film of smoke or i)aint 
or of metallic silver on the front of the disk diminishes the ett'ect, while 
blackening the back of the disk makes it louder. — {Nature, xxiii, 209, 
December, 1880.) 

2. Dispersion and Color. 

J. W. Draper has described a new form of spectrometer, intended for 
comparing the brilliancy of lights. It depends on the optical principle 
that a light is invisible in presence of another sixty-four times stronger. 
To produce it, the scale-tube is removed from the common three-tubed 
spectroscope, and a piece of glass ground on both sides is placed against 
the aperture. By x)lacing a gas-flame in front of this glass, the held 
appears uniformly' illuminated. This is the extinguishing light. With- 
out it, the spectrum of a lumhious flame placed before the slit appears 



270 PHYSICS. 

as usual. "Witli it, this spectrum appears in a field of light, the bril- 
liaucY of which cau be varied at pleasure. When the extinguishing 
flame is distant, the whole spectrum is visible. As it comes nearer, the 
violet first disappears, and then the other colors in the order of their 
brightness. Though the yellow is commonly supposed to be the bright- 
est of the rays, yet it disappears in this treatment in the order of its 
refraugibility, the red being plainly perceptible long after the yellow has 
gone. To render the extinguishing light more intense in order that it 
may obliterate very bright spectra, the simple and efficient device was 
adopted of depositing an exceedingly thin film of silver on the reflect- 
ing face of the prism. This, while not perceptibly diminishing the 
amount of transmitted light, increased markedly that of the reflected 
beam. Sunlight was then tried with the same results. The prism was 
then replaced by a grating, and the experiment repeated on the diffrac- 
tion spectrum. In this all the colored spaces yielded apparently in an 
equal manner,*and all disappeared at the same moment. On diminish- 
ing the illumination, all the colors came into view apparently at the same 
time. The author concludes : 1st, that in the prismatic spectrum the 
luminous intensity increases from the more to the less refrangible spaces, 
its maximum being not in the 5 ellow, but in the red. This is due to the 
action of the prism, which narrows and as it were condenses the colored 
spaces more and more as we pass toward the red, increasing the intensity 
of the light as it does that of the heat; 2d, that in the grating or dif- 
fraction spectrum the luminous intensity is equal in all the visible regions, 
all the colors being simultaneously obliterated by an extinguishing light. 
The distribution of heat is therefore that of light. — {Am. J. ScL, III, 
xviii, 30, July, 1879.) 

Cornu has contrived a spectroscope intended especially for the study 
of the ultra violet rays. The object-glass alike of the collimator and the 
observing telescope is an achromatic lens, consisting of a doable convex 
lens of quartz and a iflano-concave lens of calc-spar, both but x'^rpen- 
dicular to the optic axis. This combination is especially useful for the 
ultra violet rays, allowing all the rays to pass that reach us through 
our atmosphere, and being almost absolutely achromatic for them ; so 
that the adjustment required for different parts of the spectrum is 
almost nothing. The prism used may be of calc spar, though it absorbs 
rays of the highest refraugibility; or of quartz, though if the axis is 
parallel to the optic axis, the double refraction interferes. This is obvi- 
ated by using a prism made of two halves of coutr.iry rotation, the 
interior face being perpendicular to the axis. To obtain a double dis- 
persion, the two prisms of quartz have their bisecting planes perpen- 
dicular to the optic axis, but having opposite rotatory power. — {J. PJii/s., 
viii. So, June, 1879.) 

Lamansky has j^roposed a special form of spectroscope for studying 
fluorescent liquids. Ordinarily a glass plate has intervened between 
the liquid and the spectrum made to enter it. Hagenbach places the 



PHYSICS. 271 

slit and the ijrism-axis horizontally and })rojects the .spectrum on the free 
surface of the liquid. The author's si)ectroscope consists of a <;iaduate(l 
circle carrying the collimator and telescope, and movables to atiy angle 
in the vertical plane. A mirror sends the light into the collimator, 
beyond the lens of which and in the same tube is a direct-vision prism. 
The spectrum is tlirown on the surface of the liquid contained iu a small 
vessel on a movable table attached to the stand. It passes fro:a it into 
the observing telescope, whose focal distance is shortened by a second 
object-glass removable at will. The circle is divided for the pur])ose of 
measuriug the angles of incidence and emergence. — [J. PIdjs.^ viii. 411, 
December, 1871); Xatnrc, xxi, 2G7, January, 1880.) 

Liveingaud Dewarhave studied the conditions of reversal of the lines 
of metallic vapors. They used at first a tube, the closed extremiry of 
which was heated to incandescence in a farnace. The metal contained in 
the tube volatilizes; the light given by the bottom of the tube and by 
its walls gives alone a continuous spectrum; but before reaching the 
spectroscope it traverses the vapor. In the early experiments an iron 
tube 15*^™ in diameter and 80'^"> long was used, protected externally by a 
glaze. It was heated lor 30*^'", the upper extremity of the tube being 
open and covered with a plate of mica or glass. A slow current of hydro- 
gen prevented the vapors in the upper end of the tube from oxidizing. 
The collimator of the spectroscope had its axis in line with that of the 
tube. In this way the green thallium line, the blue indium line, the 
lines h, and some bine lines of magnesium were reversed. The tempera- 
ture not being sufficiently high, the authors next used a block of lime, 
having a hole bored in its axis, or 7'"™ diameter, into the lower end 
of which a lateral hole opened for the insertion of an oxyhydrogen jet. 
Or two lateral holes m ly be bored opposite to one another and the two 
carbons of a voltaic arc introduced. Similar crucibles of carbon were 
also used. By means of a mirror placed over the opening the light was 
reflected to the spectroscope. In this way the reversal was accom- 
plished of 13 of the 31 lines of potassium, of 4 of the 12 of sodinm, of 
out of 21 of barium, of 10 out of 34 of strontium, and of 11 out of 37 of 
calcium. Beside these, 4 lines of lithium, 1 of caesium, 5 of magnes- 
ium, and 2 of -aluminum were also reversed. — (J. J^hi/s., viii, 3S5, 
JSTovember, 1879. From Froc. Boy. Soc, xxvii, 132, 330, 494, 1878 ; 
xxviii, 352, 3G7, 471, 1880.) 

Peirce has called attention to the fact that a line in the diffraction spec- 
trum (whether light or dark) must be shifted from its normal position 
in case another line falls very near it. ^Neighboring lines must be at- 
tracted if both are bright or both dark, and repelled if one is bright and 
the other dark. The reason assigned is that the lines are only maxima 
or minima of light, and the differential coefficient of the sum does not 
vanish at the same points as the differential coefficients of the separate 
terms. The shifting will be the greatest in the case of a faint line near 
a verv intense one. The author has succeeded in shifting the position 



272 PHYSICS. 

of lines by measurable amouuts — one or two seconds. — {Nature, xxi, 
108, December, 1879.) 

Kundt has observ^ed the phenomenon of anomalous dispersion in 
sodium vapor. In preparing to reverse the sodium line for a lecture 
experiment, he perceived that when the sodium vapor was very dense 
and the dark line very broad a peculiar bend outward appeared at the 
ends and on opposite sides of the line. The cone of sodium vapor in 
the Buusen flame acts as a jirism with its refracting edge horizontal 
and turned u[)ward. If glowing sodium vapor give dispersion, this 
cone should give, with horizontal rays passing through it, a vertical 
spectrum, and if the rays have also passed through a glass prism with 
a horizontal refracting angle, a spectrum of the form above described 
should be obtained. From the position the refractive index of the 
vapor is greatest for those rays which arc most deflected downward. 
The refractive index increases as the band is approached from the red 
side, is less on the green side, and then rapidly increases again. — {N'atiire, 
xxii, 302, July, 1880.) 

Schuster has given an account of the spectra of lightning observed 
by him in Colorado during the summer of 1878. He used a direct-vision 
spectroscope furnished with a slit capable of micrometric movement. 
A bright line in the focal plane served as a reference mark. The ob- 
servations were limited to the yellow and the green regions from wave- 
lengths 5000 to 5800. In making a measurement, the slit was dis- 
l)laced until the line to be measured was coincident with the reference 
line. The next morning its position was determined by reference to the 
solar spectrum. A continuous spectrum was seen many times. Bright 
nitrogen lines were often seen, those of wavelengths 5002 and 5G81 
especially. Three bands of wave-lengths, 5502, 5334, 5182, were noted, 
and a fourth about 5260. Of these, 5182 belongs to nitrogen, and 5592 
and 5260 are characteristic of the oxygen discharge at the negative 
electrode. The band 5334 is the most brilliant of the two green bands 
of the spectrum of oxygen taken at a low temperature. — {Phil. Mag., 
V, vii, 316, 1879; J. Phi/s., viii, 275, August, 1870.) 

Russell and Lapraik have discovered that many liquids, ordinarily as- 
sumed to be colorless, give absorption bands when light passes through 
them on its way to the spectroscope. The phenomenon was first noticed 
with alcohol; and then it was perceived that water contained in a tube 
C feet long gave a very distinct absorption band in the orange, corre- 
sponding very closely with Piazzi Smyth's rain band and with the band 
seen by Janssen in 330 feet of steam. No variations in this band were 
observed by varying the source of sujiply, the temperature, or the sub- 
stances held in solution. Other colorless liquids also gave bands. Am- 
monia gave four bands; ethylamine also four, but dift'erent in character; 
hydrogen peroxide, one ; ethyl alcohol, one ; amyl alcohol one; aldehyde 
and acetic acid, each, one; benzene and toluene, three each; aniline and 
toluidine, each, three; turpentine, two. These results are regarded as 



PHYSICS. 278 

preliminary, and will have further investigation. — {Xature, xxii, 308, 
Angust, 1880.) 

Kood has compared the color of tlio spectrum to which Xewtou gave 
the name "indigo" with the actual color of indigo itself, and (inds it to be 
a rei)resentative of an entirely different region of the spectrum, lie 
shows: 1st, that the color of indigo is really a greenish blue when it is 
used as a i)igment or in solution; 2d, that the color of the dry cake is 
not only very black, but is variable according to the mode in which it 
is handled. He concludes, therefore, that, taking all this into considera- 
tion, it would appear desirable to allow the term "indigo" to fall into dis- 
use, and to substitute for it "ultramarine," the color of the artificial variety 
being intended, — {Am. J. ScL, III, xix, 135, February, 1880.) 

Lord Rayleigh showed to the Physical Society of London a curious 
experiment in color combination, by mixing a blue solution of litmus 
with a red solution of potassium dichromate, and thereby producing a 
yellow solution. In a similar way, a colorless liquid may be obtained 
from a green solution of cuprous chloride in water and a red solution of 
rosaniline acetate in amyl alcohol. When both are placed in a bottle, 
the crimson solution floats on the green solution; but on agitating them, 
both colors disappear, the mixture becoming grayish-white, — {Xature, 
xxii, 133, June, 1880,) 

Rood has presented to the National Academy a paper on memory for 
color and luminosity, in which he gives the results of some interesting 
experiments made to test the prevailing notion that we do not retain 
for ten seconds an exact memory of a given shade or tint. The appara- 
tus used consisted of two disks so arranged that either could be made 
to overlap the other in any required proportion. These disks were of 
different colors, which blended into a given tint when they were rapidly 
revolved, a tint the percentage of whose components was known. Sup- 
pose in one case this was 43 parts of yellow and 57 of red. After look- 
ing at the revolving disk, an assistant disarranged the two and then 
proceeded to reproduce the tint, Rood himself deciding when it was 
reached. The reproduced color had 42.6 per cent, of yellow — a mean of 
many trials, when the time of the entire experiment was not over a 
minute. The error here was not over one-half of one per cent. When 
an hour elapsed, the error was 2.2 per cent. Twenty-four hours after- 
ward the error in reproducing the color was 4.5 per cent. The same 
experiments tried by the assistant gave equally good results, as did also 
similar experiments tried with other color mixtures. — {Xature, xxi, 144, 
December, 1879.) 

3. Interference and Polarization. * 

Guebhard has devised a simple method of producing the phenomena. 

of Newton's rings in a permanent form. While the rings obtained are 

due to interference and give the colors of thin plates, they difl'er from 

Newton's rings proper in having the phenomena inverted, the greatest 

S. Mis. 31 18 



274 PHYSICS. 

thickness of the film being at the center. To i)rocluce the rings a little 
collodion is dropped on a surface of mercury. It is dra\vn out on all 
sides into a thin iridescent film, which when hard may be floated off on 
to paper. Mastic varnish on the surface of water gives similar films. 
Drops of volatile mineral oil on mercury, or even the film of moisture 
condensed from the breath, give rings which of course are transient. 
At a meeting of the Physical Society of Paris, Guebhard projected these 
films on the screen ; and showed that even the films condensed from the 
breath may exhibit phoneidoscopic properties. The various vowels 
being pronounced so that the breath impinges on the surface of the 
cooled mercury, rings are obtained having certain forms more or less 
strongly characteristic of their different qualities of tone. — {JSl'ature, xxi, 
242, January, 1880.) 

Michelson has communicated to the 'New York Academy of Sciences 
some interesting observations upon the diffraction and iiolarization 
effects produced by passing light through a narrow slit. If a fine ad- 
justable slit be narrowed down very greatly, the colored diffraction 
fringes widen out until when the width of the slit is reduced to less than 
one fiftieth of a millimeter the central space only is seen, and appears 
of a faint bluish tint. Moreover the light so transmitted exhibits traces 
of polarization when regarded through a Nicol prism. As the slit is 
narrowed, the depth of the tint and the amount of polarization increase, 
until when the opening is only one-thousandth of a millimeter the color 
becomes of a deep violet and the light is completely polarized. Slits of 
obsidian give the best results, because finer edges can be worked on it. 
The plane of i)olarization is at right angles to the length of the slit. — 
{¥ature, xxii, 133, June, 1880.) 

Crova has published a note on the two forms of polarizing prisms, 
those of Xicol and of Foucault. In the former the two halves are 
cemented by Canada balsam; in the latter they are separated by a layer 
of air. In both cases the bases are oblique to the axis of the prism and 
this occasions a considerable loss of light both at entrance and emer- 
gence; to which, in the Foucault prism, must be added that lost by the 
internal reflections. Both Hoffmann and Duboscq constructed Foucault 
])risms with faces normal to th« axis, but the loss of light internally re- 
mained. Prazmowski has made a polarizing prism which is like a Nicol, 
except that the halves are cemented with linseed oil, the faces being 
normal. More spar is required and the manufacture is long and difficult. 
Almost no loss of light, however, takes place internally, the index of the 
oil being 1.485, very near to the extraordinary index of spar, 1.483. 
The field is increased to 31°, against 21° in the i!sicol and 8° in the 
Foucault. For photometric purposes especially, Crova regards this 
new prism of great advantage. — {J. Phys., ix, 152, May, 1880.) 

Govi has illustrated the laws of circular polarization by an exceed- 
ingly beautiful projection experiment, founded on the well-known fact 
that the spectram obtained of the colors produced by the interference 



PHYSICS. 275 

of polarized light contains one or more dark bands, corre8])ondin,i2; to 
the colors extinguished by the interference. If the depolarizing ])late 
be of quartz, the bands are moved along the spectrum to the right or 
left by rotating the analyzer. Govi's device consists in rotating the 
analyzer and the direct-vision [)rism together at the same velo(;ity. A 
circular spectrum i.^ thus produced, red at the center and violet on the 
edges, or the reverse. As the dark quartz baud moves along the spec- 
trum by an amount proportional to the rotation angle, interference will 
take place along this circular spectrum along points which form, geomet- 
rically, a spiral of Archimedes, which persistence of vision makes per- 
manent. Thicke* quartz gives two, three, or more interlacing spirals, 
forming -d very striking optical experiment. — {Nature, xxii, 595, October, 
1880.) " 

Klocke has discovered t^iat in its action on polarized light, hyposul- 
phite of lead is anomalous. It ordinarily polarizes circularly, but when 
plates cut ])erpendicularly to the optic axis, are viewed in a parallel beam 
of polarized light they appear unequally bright, being divided by dark 
bands into six sectors, opposite pairs of which are equally bright. Even 
iu convergent light the usual ring system of uniaxial crystals is not 
seen, but in each sector there appears a figure characteristic of biaxial 
crystals, the plane of the optic axes being perpendicular to the neighbor- 
ing edge of the crystal. It would thus appear that the six portions are 
compressed equally, each in a direction perpendicular to the neighboring 
face of the prism. — {Nature, xxiii, 209, December, 1880.) 

Becquerel has published a memoir on the polarization of the sky. 
He finds that, contrarj- to the general opinion, the plane of polarization; 
for a given point does not generally i^ass through the sun, but that the 
angle which this plane makes with the plane of the sun (a plane jess- 
ing through the point, the sun, and the eye of the observer) varien from 
minute to minute so that the plane of polarization passes a little below 
the sun, between it and the horizon. If the point be in the northern or 
southern sky this angle is very small in the morning, increases to a max- 
imum from nine to ten o'clock, disappears at noon, increases again to a 
maximum about 2 or 3 p. m., again diminishing and becoming zero as 
the sun sets. If the point be east or west, coincidence of the two planes 
is not seen, though a mininmm is observed about noon. At morning 
and evening the angle attains maxima, reaching even GP. From these 
phenomena the appearance is as if the plane of iK)larization suffered a 
direct rotation, viewed by an observer whose head was toward the north 
and his feet toward the south. Since in a region perpendicular to the 
dipping needle, the rotation is sensibly zero, the author believes that it 
is due to the influence of the earth's magnetism — an opinion strengthened 
by the fact that he has just measured the amount of rotation of a i)olar- 
ized-light ray traversing a layer of carbon disulphide, under the inHu- 
ence of the earth's magnetism. — {Ann. Chim. Phys.^ V, xix, 90, January^ 
1880; J. Phys., ix, 51, February, 1880.) 



276 PHYSICS. 

Kerr has extended his electro-optical researches, and by the aid of new 
and improved apparatus has confirmed his early conclusions. The ap- 
paratus includes a paraffin-oil lamp ; a ISTicol with its principal section 
inclined 45° to the horizon ; a cell for the liquid so arranged that the 
liue of junction of the electrodes is horizontal ; a system of compensat- 
ing glass plates which can be submitted to a vertical traction by means 
of known weights ; a neutralizing plate of glass of irregular structure, 
to compensate the double refraction of the cell ; a hand-compensator ; 
a vertical strip of glass which can be flexed by the hand parallel to the 
axis of the luminous bundle, designed to determine the direction of the 
double refraction produced in the liquid ; and an analyzing Nicol in- 
clined at 45° to the horizon and 90^* to the i)riucipal section of the polar- 
izer. When adjusted the light is completely' extinguished and can be 
restored by the hand-compensator. The electric machine is then put 
into action. With carbon disulphide a fraction of a turn suffices to re- 
turn the light, which instantly disappears again on discharging the con- 
ductor. The compensator shows a uniaxial double refraction like that 
of glass submitted to traction parallel to the lines of force. With nitro- 
benzene the light reappears only on drawing a spark from the second 
electrode. In a subsequent paper, Kerr formally enunciates the fol- 
lowing law : " The intensity of electro-optic action of a given dielectric 
(or the difference of retardations of the ordinary and extraordinary rays) 
j)er unit of thickness of the dielectric varies directly as the square of 
the resultant electric force." On the question of stress he says : "The 
dioptric action of an electrically charged medium is closely related to 
the electric stress of the medium, the axis of double refraction coincid- 
ing in every case with the line of electric tension and the double refrac- 
tion varying, certainly in CS2, and probably in all other dielectrics 
directly and simply as the intensity of the tension." — {Phil. Mag. V., viii, 
85, 1879; ix, 157, 1880; J. Plujs., viii, 414; ix, 255, 1880.) 

ELECTRICITY. 

1. Magnetism. 

Carr6 has introduced into Paris the manufacture of magnets of su- 
perior quality' made of cast iron. His process is as follows : A soft and 
very slightly carburetted metal is melted in earthen crucibles, and just 
before running it into the moulds 10 or 15 per cent, of steel filings are 
added. In order to i^roduce a metal which will stand tempering at a 
cherry-red heat, there is added either 1 to 1.5 per cent, of nickel, with 
0.25 per cent, of copper, or 2 per cent, of tin and 0.5 j)er cent, of copper. 
—{Nature, xxi, 359, February, 1880.) 

Obalski has described to the Academy a very neat magnetic experi- 
ment. Two magnetic needles are hung vertically by fine threads, their 
unlike poles being opposite one another. Below them is a vessel con- 
taining water, its surface not quite touching the needles, which are 



PHYSICS. 277 

himg so far apart as not to move toward one another. If the level of 
the water be now quietly raised by letting a further quautity flow in 
from below, as soon as the water covers the lower ends of the needles 
they begin to approach, and when they are nearly immersed they rush 
together. The effect appears to be due to the fact that when the grav- 
itation force downward is partly counteracted by the upward hydro- 
static force due to immersion, the magnetic force is able to assert itself, 
being greater. — {N'ature, xxii, 133, June, 1880.) 

Mayer has contrived an ingenious magnetic experiment to illustrate 
molecular groupings and molecular actions. Sewing needles are mag- 
netized all in the same direction. They are then pushed through small 
pieces of cork up to the eye. On placing them in water they float ver- 
tically, with the point downward. Since the similar jioles are upward, 
they repel each other. These needles represent molecules ; their mag- 
netism the repulsive force. To obtain an attractive force, a bar magnet 
is held vertically over the water, so that the pole of contrary name to the 
tops of the needles shall be downward. The needles are attracted and 
approach each other, producing groupings which depend on the inimber 
of the needles, their initial position, and the impulses given. Twenty- 
three of these groui>ings are represented in the paper, the most com- 
plex figures being formed of twenty needles ; though the author has 
formed much more complex ones, more than fifty needles having been 
grouped in one of his figures. The author employs these groupings to 
illustrate many of the laws of both molecular and atomic arrangement. 
When projected by means of a vertical laiitern they are very striking, 
— {Am. J. ScL, III, XV, 216; xvi, 247; J. Phys., viii, 32, January, 1879.) 

Barker has communicated to the ]!:>fational Academy the results of some 
experiments made to test the alleged incorrectness of Arago's explana- 
tion of the magnetism of a wire through which a current is passing, i. e., 
that the wire is itself magnetic. Bache had explained the result by 
supposing the iron filings, held by the wire in Arago's experiment, be- 
came themselves magnets under the influence of the current, and so 
became atta'ched to each other rather than to the wire. In proof of this 
he says that if a card be scrai)ed along on the top of the wire the ring 
of filings is broken and the whole mass falls. Barker used in his 
experiments a quantity magneto-machine made by Wallace, the current 
from which was capable of heating three feet of quarter-inch gas pipe 
to bright redness in a minute. When this current was passed through 
a copper wire, a 5-inch iron spike held close under the wire was mark- 
edly attracted by it; and when i^laced in contact with the lower side of 
the -wire, adhered readily magneticallj^, placing itself with its axis per- 
pendicular to that of the wire. This result was the same Avhen the con- 
ducting wire was red hot. In a second experiment the wire passed 
through a hole in a large sheet of glass. When this glass was sprinkled 
with iron filings concentric magnetic curves, complete and p;u'tial, were 
formed round the wire for a distance of 20 inches. These experiments 



278 PHYSICS. 

seemed conclusive that the copper wire really was itself a magnet in 
this case. — {Nature^ xxi, 145, December, 1879.) 

Lemstrom has described to the Physical Society of St. Petersburg 
an experiment of great apparent significance. He finds that a ring of 
insulating material, when rotating about its axis of symmetry with a 
high velocity, acts like a galvanic circuit and produces a magnetic field 
in the space within it. He ex^^lains it by supposing that the ether in the 
insulator, being dragged along by the ring, produces, vortical motion of 
the ether in the central space, which vortical motion be conceives to be 
the essential condition of a magnetic field. On this experiment the 
author founds his theory of terrestrial magnetism. Since rotating an 
iron bar within an insulating medium ought to magnetize the bar, the 
earth being a magnetic body rotating in an insulating medium ought to 
be magnetized by its rotation.— (JV^atwre, xxii, 89, May, 1880.) 

Piazzoli has studied the influence of magnetism on the tenacity of 
iron. Wires were hung between two hooks and ruptured by pouring 
water into a vessel suspended from them. These wires were 'dlj"'^ long, 
and were inclosed in a helix of four layers of wire. The current 
was made to traverse these layers all in one direction, or two in one 
direction and two in the opposite, tlie effect of heating being thus elimi- 
nated. The wires annealed in charcoal broke at 12(30 to 1300 with, and 
1213 to 1270 without magnetization. Wires annealed in carbonous oxide 
1732.4 to 1742.7 with, and 1703.02 to 1719.87 without the current. 
Those annealed in hydrogen, 1289.5 to 1310.1 with, and 1263 to 1299.7 
without the magnetism. The values are about from 1 to 3 per cent, 
greater for the magnetized than for the unmagnetized wires, showing 
that the tenacity of iron increases on magnetization. — {Nature, xxii, 89, 
May, 1880.) 

Eighi has sought to harmonize the discordant results as to the changes 
in the length of iron bars when magnetized. By means of a mirror 
method which magnified the elongation 8,CC'0 times, he ascertained tha 
(1) magnetism produces an increase in iron and steel in the dimension 
of the direction of magnetization; (2) a part of this increase remains 
after the current ceases, being more or less according to the coercive 
force; (3) when the current is not very strong, the elongations are pro- 
portional to the square of the current strength ; (4) after a strong current 
has been sent through the spiral, a weak current sent in the opposite 
direction produces a shortening, though the bar, even when demagnetized 
by it, remains longer than normal ; (5) during reversal of polarity the 
length becomes momentarily less, the eflect being oscillatory; (G) a bar 
shortens at the instant of closing the circuit, when the current traverses it 
directly; (7) it elongates on opening, but by a less amount; (8) on rever- 
sal, the bar elongates and oscillates ; (9) the contraction is greater if 
the bar has been longitudinally magnetized previously; and (10) some 
bars show a tendency to take spiral magnetization, *. e., to rotate the 
magnetic axes of their molecules in the direction of the turns of the 
helix.— {Mature, xxii, 543, October, 1880.) 



PHYSICS. 279 

Becquerel has piiblislied an extended memoir on the magnetic ])roi)- 
erties of nickel and cobalt compared with those of iron, using the oscil- 
lation method, the differential method, and the electromagnetic-balance 
metliod, for comparison, confining himself to the magnetism developed 
by induction, and not the magnetism which remains permanent. The 
author's most important conclusion is that for very feeble intensities, 
under conditions very tar from saturation, or \yith substances in which 
the magnetic particles are sufflciently removed, so as not to react the 
one upon the other, the effects developed in the molecules of nickel and 
of iron at the ordinary ttmperature appear to lie very near each other. — 
{Ann. Chim. Phys., V, xvi, 227, February, 1879.) 

Hodges has contrived a new instrument for determining the inclination 
of the needle, founded on the fact that the magnetic polarity of a bar 
of soft iron is greatest when the bar lies in the line of the dip. In place 
of a single bar, however, the author uses two, joined to each other at 
right angles. When the two branches make equal angles with the line 
of dip, the ends next the junction are of op])osite jjolarity ; and if similar, 
will neutralize one another so that a needle suspended near them will 
remain unaffected. The results on trial were very accordant under dif- 
ferent conditions. — (Aw. J. ^ci., Ill, xvii, 145, February, 1879.) 

Rowland and Jacques have determined the diamagnetic contents of 
bismuth and calc-spar in absolute measure, the former contributing the 
theory, and the latter making the measurements. These latter consisted 
of two : 1st, the determination in absolute measure of the magnetic 
potential of the field used ; and, 2d, the determination of the time of 
vibration and the other constants of the little bars of the substances when 
suspended in this field. The diamagnetic constant of bismuth along the 
axis was found to be —.000000012554 ; and for calc-spar —.0000000379:50, 
in absolute measure. — {Am. J. iSci., Ill, xviii, 3G0, November, 1879.) 

2. Electromotors. 

Iloorweg has investigated the conditions of the production of elec- 
tricity in the voltaic cell, and has advanced a thermic theory of its origin. 
The following are his conclusions : 1st. Wherever two conductors arc in 
contact, the heat movement has the production of electricity as a coiise 
quence ; hence a constant electric difference exists between the bodies. 
2d. Whenever the sum of the diiferences of potential existing in a cir- 
cuitis different from zero, a permanent current is produced. 3d. This cur- 
rent absorbs heat at certain of the points of contact and evolves it at others. 
4th. All voltaic currents are thermo-currents. 5th. All chemical actions 
in the cell and in apparatus for electrolytic decomposition are a conse 
quence of the passage of the current. — {Ann. Phys. Chem., II, ix,552, ISSO; 
J. Phjs., ix, 352, October, 1880.) 

Varenne has studied the phenomenon of the passivity of iron in nitric 
acid as when employed as the positive plate of a Grove battery or the 
positive electrode of a voltameter cell containing nitric acid. He con- 



280 PHYSICS. 

eludes that this peculiar eifect is due to a film of nitrogen dioxide which 
collects upon the surface of the iron and protects it from further chemi- 
cal action. This film, he asserts, is apparent when the surface of the 
iron is examined nnder the microscope. If a current of carbon dioxide 
or of hydrogen gas is passed through the liquid the passivity ceases and 
the iron is dissolved. Moreover, on placing the iron plate i)i vacuo 
nitrogen dioxide is evolved from it. — {Nature, xxi, 117, December, 1879.) 

Pellat has examined the standard cell proposed by Latimer Clark, 
and finds that it is not entirely free from variations in its electromotive 
force. According to his observations two of these cells may differ from 
each other by a quantity equal to the one-hundredth of the electromotive 
force of a Daniell cell. The method employed was to couple up the two 
cells in opposition to one another, and then by means of an electrometer 
to measure the residual difference of i^otential. — {Nature, xxi, 117, De- 
cember, 1870.) 

Debrun has constructed an ingenious capillary electromotor, based 
on the theorem established by Lippmann, that if a mercury surface be 
deiormed by mechanical means there is prod'iced an evolution of elec- 
tricity which tends to arrest the motion of the mercury. Through a 
capillary tube mercury is caused to run drop by drop, acidulated water 
beiug introduced, by means of a reservoir at the top, between each glob- 
ule. Wires are connected with the masses of mercury at the upper and 
lower ends of the tube, and a current is observed to flow on closing 
these in the direction in which the globules move. The tube actually 
used was 2.5™™ in diameter at top and 1™™ at bottom, SO*'™ long, con- 
taining not less than 20 nor more than 35 globules. The electromotive 
force under these circumstances is 1.4 volts, so that with Wollaston's 
points it can decompose water. The energy, however, is not very great, 
since it is produced by the fall of only two kilograms of mercurj^ per 
hour through only 25*^™. In allowing the mercury to run for twenty- 
four hours sufficient current was developed to silver strongly a five- 
centime piece. The internal resistance of a column of acidulated water 
1™™ in diameter and 30*^™ long being so considerable, a high-resistance 
galvanometer should be used to test the currents produced by this in- 
strument. — {J. Phys., ix, 28, January, 1880.) 

Barrett has communicated to the Phj'sical Society of London the fact 
that the motion of a chalk cylinder under a metallic surface generates 
an electric current, having an electromotive force of rather over one- 
third of a volt. The strength of the current depends on the rapidity of 
the rotation and the pressure on the chalk surface ; the latter only 
diminishing the very high internal resistance. The discovery, he says, 
resulted from a suggestion made to him four or five months before, to 
try whether Edison's motograph telephone receiver could be used as a 
transmitter. Then his experiments were not successful, but now he 
finds that the voice is faintly but accurately transmitted on speaking 
into the receiver while the chalk is made to rotate. But Edison had 



PHYSICS. 281 

himself published the same fact in the Scientific American one or two years 
before, and had given a figure of several of these chalk cylinders con- 
nected in series for the purpose of producing a current of high poten- 
tial.— (^Ya^wre, xxi, 417, March, 1880.) 

Blyth has communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh the gen- 
eral fact that electric currents are produced by the mere friction between 
conducting substances. Since for all pairs of metals yet tried these 
currents are in the same direction as the thermo-curreut produced by 
heating the junction of the same two metals, the author thinks that they 
may have in part a thermo-electric origin ; but another part may be due 
to the currents suggested by Sir William Thomson as the cause of fric- 
tion, and still a thii'd part to the force of contact between films of air or 
oxide on the surfiices. One of the motors constructed consists of a 
cylinder of antimony arranged so as to be rapidly rotated, and a plate 
of bismuth which is pressed hard against it by a spring. When included 
in the circuit with a microphone and a Bell telephone, the current from 
it is quite sufficient to serve for the transmission of musical sounds and 
loud speaking. By using a cylinder of bismuth on which a bent sew- 
ing needle presses as it rotates, a very good receiver is also produced. 
The authou ascribes the result to a heat change, analogous somewhat to 
that observed in the Trevelyan rocker. — {Nature^ xxii, 330, August, 
1880.) 

Heraud has proposed a new voltaic cell, the negative plate of which 
is zinc immersed in a concentrated solution of ammonium chloride, while 
the positive consists of a plate of carbon surrounded by fragments of 
carbon mixed with about an equal weight of mercurous chloride (calo- 
mel) in powder. In action the mercurous chloride loses chlorine, and is 
reduced to metallic mercury ; the zinc acts on the ammonium chloride, 
producing zinc chloride and ammonia; and the ammonia water and 
chlorine unite again to reproduce the ammonium chloride. It is claimed 
that this battery does not polarize, and can be used on a closed circuit. 
Its electromotive force is not far from that of a Daniell cell. — (Arm. Cliim. 
Phi/s., V, xvii, 512, August, 1879.) 

Xiaudet has constructed a voltaic cell, the plates of which are also 
zinc and carbon ; but the former is immersed in a solution of common 
salt and the carbon in a porous cup containing commercial chloride of 
lime (a mixture of chloride, oxide, and hypochlorite of calcium). Under 
the action of the polarizing hydrogen, the hypochlorite is decomposed 
into hydrochloric acid, which forms calcium chloride with the Lime pres- 
ent, and vrater ; so that the salts produced by the battery when in action 
are zinc chloride and calcium chloride. Since both are extremely solu- 
ble, the liquid preserves its limpidity, and no insoluble salt is formed. 
The electromotive force of this battery is 1.0 volts. It polarizes only 
when closed on short circuit, from which it recovers rapidly. Its chief 
merit is that, like the Leclanch6 cell, the zinc is not acted on until the 
circuit is closed. To prevent escape of odors, the oi)ening in the porous 
cell is closed with a waxed cork. — {J. Phys., ix, 18, January, 1880.) 



282 PHYSICS. 

Niaudet has given an illustrated description of the Noe thermopiles 
constructed by Hauck, of Vienna, and exhibited in Paris. The elements 
used are German silver, emi)loyed in the form of wire, four from each 
junction, and an antimony all 03' cast in a mould. Each j)air has an 
electromotive force equal to 0.1 Daniell cell, for a temperature at which 
the ends are below redness. It resistance is 0.1 of a Siemens unit per 
element.— (.7. Pliys., viii, 230, July, 1879.) 

D'Arsonval has suggested an improvement in Plante's secondary 
batteries, which, as is well known, consist of two sheets of lead im- 
mersed in dilute sulphuric acid. The action is limited at the cathode 
^^Y the hydrogen bubbles which form there, and at the anode by the 
low conductivity of the lead i^eroxide film which forms over its surface. 
The first of these difiiculties d'Arsonval obviates by electrolyzing a 
salt of zinc instead of a dilute acid. The second he avoids by increas- 
ing the surface of the anode, employing for this purj)ose shot heaped 
about a carbon plate. The liquid employed is a strong solution of zinc 
sulijhate. While charging, zinc is deposited ui)on the surface of a lead 
l^late, or, better, upon a free surface of mercury amalgam, sulphuric acid 
being produced at the same tiim^ Its electromotive force is claimed to 
be 2.1 volts. — [Nature^ xxi, 409, February, 1880.) 

Breguet has published a memoir upon the theorj' of the Gramme 
machine, and on the cause of the dissymetric position of its brushes. 
The following are his conclusions : 1st. The theory of the Gramme and 
von Alteneck machines is directly connected with that of Barlow's wheel 
and Faraday's machine, and these latter machines rest on the first 
principle established by Ampere, i. e., a movable current tends to place 
itself in such a position that the observer who personifies it sees the 
south pole on his left and the north i)ole on his right hand. 2d. The 
soft iron armature of the von Alteneck machine serves only to re- en- 
force the magnetic field in the region where the wires of the movable 
circuit revolve. 3d. The annular armature of soft iron of the Gramme 
machine has the same influence as the preceding armature, but this is 
not its characteristic function. This function consists in shielding the 
internal wires of the bobbin sjjires from the normal action of the lines 
of force of the field. 4th. The angular displacement of the brushes of 
the i)receding machines cannot be attributed to the retardation of the de- 
magnetization of the soft iron ring alone, since this displacement stiU 
exists and may even become still more considerable in those forms de- 
rived from these machines where there is no soft iron armature. — {Ann. 
Chim. Phys., Y, xvi, 5, January, 1879.) 

3. Electrical measurements. 

PeUat has devised a method for measuring electromotive force which 
may be applied to a battery or may be used to determine the difference 
of potential between two metals in contact. The principle consists in 
opposing to the cell to be measured an electromotive force variable at 



PHYSICS. 283 

will continuously and bj' amounts exactly known by a simple reading, 
until the compensation is exact. The instrument resembles that of Du 
Bois lieymoud, but it uses a capillary electrometer in place of a galva- 
nometer, and thus, while more delicate and more rai)id, polarization is 
comi)letely avoided. Moreover, the sensitiveness of the method is inde- 
pendent of the resistance of the cell, batteries of 10,000,000 ohms resist- 
ance being measured with ease. For w^eak electromotive forces, the 
delicacy is one ten-thousandth of a Daniell cell ; for stronger ones, to one 
two-thousandth of a Latimer-Clark cell. The applications of the method 
to determine the contact-potential are very ingenious. — {J. P%.s\,ix,145, 
May, 18S0.) 

Debrun has made a useful modification of Liiipmann's capillary elec- 
trometer. In the original instrument, in a tube a millimeter in diameter, 
the mercury level changed only 3'"'" for a difference of potential of one 
volt, and to measure small fractions Lippmann used a microscope. In 
the new instrument this delicacy is secured by making the tube inclined 
to the vertical, the effect increasing with the angle. A glass tube 
7™'" in diameter is drawn out so as to give a capillary tube slightly con- 
ical, and a good millimeter in diameter and 20*^™ long. This is bent into 
a Z-form, the connecting portion being placed horizontally, but fastened 
to a movable board, so that its inclination may be adjusted. The ends 
of the tube open into reservoirs. It is filled with mercury and acid- 
ulated water, as usual, the end of the mercury column being adjusted to 
occupy three-quarters of the horizontal part. Electrical connections are 
made with the mercury in each of the reservoirs. The calibration is 
eflected by using a battery of known potential, increasing the cells. — {J. 
Fhys., ix, 100, May, 1880.) 

Niemoller has found the telephone capable of determining very quickly 
and accurately the resistance of liquids. It is substituted for the gal- 
vanometer in a Wheatstoue's bridge, and an induction current is used. 
If the resistances to be compared are a large liquid resistance and a 
Siemens resistance box, so that the electrodynamic constants are very 
small ; and if also a German-silver or platinum wire be used as measur- 
ing wire, it is found that in the position where the galvanometer shows 
no deflection, the tone in the telephone has a well-marked minimum of 
intensity. In a liquid resistance of 2,000 units a variation of even four 
units may be detected readily. — {Xature, xxi, 309, January, 1880.) 

Trowbridge has studied the conditions which cause the ticking of the 
time-clock of Harvard College Observatory, transmitted electrically by 
wire from Cambridge to Boston, to be heard on all the telephone cir- 
cuits in the neighborhood of the line. He shows from theoretical con- 
siderations that the usual explanation of induction between the wires 
is erroneous, and that the effects observed on telephonic circuits, which 
have usually been attributed to induction, are really due to the earth 
connections and to imperfect insulation. As the result, then, is due to 
the fact that the wires on which the sound is heard obtain their current 



284 PHYSICS. 

by tapping- the ground at places of different potential, the author made 
experiiueuts to determine the equipotential surfaces formed by the 
ground of the time signal-service. By running a wire 500 or GOO feet, 
placing its terminals in moist earth, and including a telephone in the 
circuit, the ticking of the clock could be readily heard in a field an 
eighth of a mile distant from the observatory ; and at one point a mile 
distant the ticking was heard with only 50 feet of wire. Behind the 
observatory no result was had, though at no point were earth currents 
absent. " Tlicoretically," the autiior concludes, " it is possible to day 
to telegraph across the Atlantic Ocean without a cable" ; "practically 
the expenditure of energy on the dynamo-electric engines would seem 
to be enormous." — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, xx, 138, August, 1880.) 

Hill has devised an electro-d;\namometer for use especially with strong 
currents, which in general is similar to Trowbridge's instrument, but 
differs from it in the manner of determining the deflective power of the 
current. To the suspended coil a pointer-rod is attached, on opposite 
sides of which silk threads are fastened, which lead over pulleys on the 
side bars to small pans, one on each side of the instrument. When the 
deflection has taken place weights are added to the pan on the opposite 
side until the pointer-rod returns to zero. In the instrument as con- 
structed a current of 20 webers required about half a gram weight, and 
one of 100 webers a weight of 13.2 grams. The instrument works well 
and gives uniform results. — {Am. J. /S'ci., xix, 10, January, 1880.) 

Hughes has devised an apparatus, which he calls an induction balance, 
for comparing induced currents. It consists (1) of a battery of three 
Daniell cells, the current of which traverses a microphone with an at- 
tached clock for producing the sounds; (2) of the balance proper; (3) of 
an electric sonometer ; and (4) of a receiving telephone. The balance 
itself is formed of four equal coils, a decimeter in height, 5.5<=™ external 
diameter, with a space of 3^"' internally, each covered with 100 meters of 
No. 32 covered copper wire. The four coils form two groups placed be- 
yond each other's influence. At each end, therefore, there are two 
coils, one inducing, the other receiving the induction, jdaced end to 
end, and about 5'"™ apart. The electric sonometer is formed of two sim- 
ilar inducing bobbins fixed at the ends of a horizontal rule 40°"^ long, 
divided into millimeters. Along this rule moves a receiving coil. The 
electric current from the microphone reaches a commutator which directs 
it into the balance or into the sonometer, where it traverses the induc- 
ing coils. The telephone circuit passes through the receiving coils, first 
the two on the balance, in opposite directions, and then that on the 
sonometer. No sound is heard in the telephone if the receiving coil in 
the latter case be equidistant from the inducing ones. No sound is heard 
in the balance coils if they are empty ; but if a fragment of metal be 
placed between them, a sound is heard louder according to the character 
of the metal. The current is passed alternately into the balance and 
the sonometer, and the coil of the latter is displaced until the sounds 



PHYSICS. 285 

have the same intensity in each. The action of the metal is then indi- 
cated on the graduation of the sonometer. — {Phil. Mag., V, viii, 50, 551, 
554, 1879 ; ix, 123, 1880; J. Phys., viii, 353, 1879; ix, 370, 389, 393, 1880; 
Ann. Chim. Phys., V, xix, 5C1, April, 1880.) 

4. Electric sparlc and light. 

Spottiswoode has experimented on the use of the alternating current 
of a De Meritens magneto-electric machine for exciting the induction 
coil. He used a coil giving a 50*=" spark, the reversals being 1,300 per 
minute; no interrupter was therefore needed. Under these conditions 
sparks were obtained only 18°"" long, but they were as thick as an or- 
dinary- i^encil. They showed a brilliant point at each extremity of a 
tongue of yellow flame. When the current passed freely no spark 
proper appeared ; but by blowing on one side, brilliant si)arks may bo 
made to pass. — {Phil. Mag., V, viii, 390 ; J. Phys., ix, 37, 1880 ; Nature, 
xxi, 433, March, 1880.) 

Farmer has called attention to the fact, as a contribution to the his- 
tory of electric lighting by incandescence, that in Jul}-, 1859, his house 
in Salem was lighted every evening by a subdivided electric light. A 
galvanic battery of three dozen six-gallon jars in the cellar furnished 
the electric current. On the mantel in the parlor were two electric 
lamps, either of which could be lighted at pleasure or both at once by 
simjily turning a little button. The light was soft, mild, agreeable to 
the eye, and more delightful to read or sew by than any light ever seen 
before. It was discoiitinued on account of theexi^euse. On the cost of 
electric light as compared with gas Farmer says : " On the average one 
pound of illuminating gas will, if burned in an hour in five different 
burners, give fifteen candle lights to each burner, or seventh-five can- 
dle lights in all. One jiound of illuminating gas possesses a sufficient 
store of energy to enable it to give out by combustion from 18,000 to 
21,000 units of heat, or the equivalent of from 13,000,000 to 10,000,000 
foot-pounds of work. This, if burned in an hour, would average from 
200,000 to 260,000 units of w^ork per minute, or say from 3,000 to 3,500 
foot-pounds per minute per candle light. Now a very large electric 
light, say ten thousand candles, does not consume more than 15 or 
20 foot-pounds of energy jier minute per candle light. So it might not 
seem very extravagant to expect that one i)ound of gas per hour could 
be burned in a suitable furnace under a proper boiler, and steam be taken 
from this boiler to a steam-engine, and this engine drive a magneto- 
electric machine which should suj^ply electricity to five electric lamps 
that would shed forth more light than could be given by five of the best 
gas lamps known, each lamp consuming at the rate of one-fifth of a 
pound of the best illuminating gas per hour." — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, xvii, 
65, January, 1879.) 

Jamin has constructed a modification of the Jablochkoft" candle, in 
which he has made use of the electrodyuamic action of a coil of wire to 



286 PHYSICS. 

keep the arc steady aud poiuting in one direction. The two carbons are 
X:)arallelbnt inverted, han ging with their points downward. -They have 
no insulatiug material between them. Surrounding these, and in their 
own phxne, is a flat coil of wire through which the main current circu- 
lates. The trials with this lamp in Paris are said to have been success- 
ful.— (iVY^fwre, xxii, 355, August, ISSO.) 

Eeynier has proposed an incandescent light in which the point of a 
thin stick of carbon presses against a fixed carbon contact, while on it 
laterally, a short distance above, a third piece of carbon makes contact. 
The current enters by this lateral carbon and traverses the carbon pen- 
cil to its pointed end, passing thence to the solid carbon support. The 
pencil becomes thus incandescent, emitting most light at its point. Its 
photometric value varies from five to twenty carcel burners, according 
to the current. — {J. Fhys., viii, 400, December, 1879.) 

Siemens has presented to the Society of Telegrax)h Engineers a paper 
on recent applications of the dynamo-current to metallurgy, horticulture, 
and the transmission of i^ower. By means of an electric furnace made 
of a black-lead crucible, the positive carbon entering through the bottom 
and the negative through the cover, steel had readily been melted. 
Using a moderate-sized dynamo-machine, consuming four horse-powers 
and producing 36 webers of current — equal to a G,000 candle light — he 
raises a crucible 20«="> deep to a white heat in less than half an hour, and 
a kilogram of steel is fused in it in another half hour. This furnace 
utilizes one-thirJ of the horse-power actually expended ; and as the effi- 
ciency of the engine is one-fifth, that of the electric furnace is }^x}=^j. 
As it takes theoretically 450 heat units to melt a pound of steel, the fur- 
nace would require 450 x 15=0750 heat units to be expended, or about 
the energy of a pound of coal. A ton of steel as ordinarily melted in an 
air furnace requires 2i to 3 tons of coke ; in a regenerative furnace about 
a ton. The electric furnace is economically su]>erior to the air furnace 
and nearly equal to the regenerative furnace. When the paper was read, 
a pound of broken files was melted in a cold crucible, by means of a cur- 
rent of 72 webers, in fifteen minutes, and cast in a mould. With refer- 
ence to the action of light on plants, the interesting experiments made 
by him in this direction were detailed, and an account given of the ex- 
periments now in progress to produce flowers and fruits without solar 
aid. Under the third head of his paper, Siemens described his brother's 
electric railway in Berlin, and its numerous applications. — {Xatiirc^ xxii, 
135, June, 1S80.) 

Edison has finally determined upon the use of carbon filaments in his 
incandescent lamps. These filaments are constructed by cutting with 
a suitable punch, from a piece of Bristol board, a striii in the form of a 
miniature horseshoe, about two inches in length and one-sixteenth of 
an inch in width. These are laid in a wrought-iron mould, separated 
from each other by tissue paper, and heated first by a gas flame and 
then in a furnace to a white heat. After cooling, the charred fiber is 



PHYSICS. 287 

sealed in a globe, which is then exhausted to oiie-niillioiith of an atinos- 
l)here. Subsequently, in exi)eri)nenting with various libers, iMlison (;ame 
to the oonclusion that a natural liber was more durable tlian an artihcial 
one, and that Japanese bamboo furnished the best. Tlic lamps which 
are now made on the large scale are constructed with these libers. 

liowland and Barker have made a series of measurements to test the 
efliciency of Edison's lamp. They compared the loss of energy in the 
lamp, as measured in the calorimeter, with the amount of light emitted, 
measured on the photometer. The lamps used were live in number, 
four of them having carbons made from paper, and one a natural liber 
carbon. The comi)arisons were made by having two lamps in circuit, 
one being in the calorimeter and the other on the photometer in the lirst 
experiment, and their positions being reversed in the second. No. 1^01, 
which gave a mean of 10.1 candles on the pliotometer, gave 318G foot- 
pounds of energy in the calorimeter ; No. 580, which gave 13.1 mean 
candle lights, evolved 3540 foot-pounds. But when No. liOl was made 
to give 28.9 candles, its energy was only increased to 4898 foot-pounds ; 
and No. 580, which gave 33.5 candles, evolved only 5181 foot-pounds; 
the cost of doubling the light being- one-half more energy only. ]No. 
809 j,ave 14.3 candles, and used 3330 foot-pounds ; No. 850 gave O.li 
candles, and consumed 2483 foot-pounds. No. 817, the liber lamp, gave 
17.2 candles for a consumption of 2708 foot-pounds of energy. The 
mean of the lirst two is 109 candles i)er horse power of current ; of the 
second two, 2*;4.3 candles; of the third two, 133.4; and of the fourth, 
209.G. Or, in the lirst, G.8 gas jets of IG candles, in the second J2.8, in 
the third 8.3, and in the fourth 13.1 gas jets would be yielded by each 
horse-power of current. From the efficiency of Edison's machine, the 
authors thnik that the yield per indicated horse-power of the engine 
would not be lar from 70 per cent, of these values. — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, 
xix, 337, April, 1880.) 

Brackett and Young have also made measurements on Edison's lamp, 
in addition to others upon his Faradic machine. Comparison of the 
Edison dynamometer with the Prony brake showed that the latter reg- 
istered 93.2 per cent, of the power transmitted by the former. In their 
lirst experiment, the power exi)ended was measured by the dynamometer 
and the current by the copper voltameter. The total efficiency was 
found to be 82.3 per cent., and the available efficiency 78.7 per cent. In 
the second trial the energy produced was measured by the calorimeter, 
and the total efficiency was found to be 84. G per cent., the available, 78.2 
per cent. A third test gave 84.5 total, and 78.2 available efficiency. But 
one lamp was tested. No. 853, the carbon of which was from paper. 
The mean illumination was 10.1 candles ; the resistance, hot, 99.G ohms; 
the difference of potential, 74.33 volts; hence the current strength was 
0.75 weber, and the lamp was consuming 0.075 horse-power. This gives 
]37 candles per horse-power of current, or 107 candles per horse-power 
at the dynamometer; a near correspondence with the preceding re- 
sults.— (A?«. J. >S'd., Ill, xix, 475, June, 1880.) 



288 • PHYSICS. 

Morton, IMayer, and Thomas have published results of jneasurements 
of Edison's lamp No. 154. The resistance of the lamp when cold was 
123 ohms; when giving 1.9 caudles, 82 ohms; and when giving 18 cau- 
dles, 75 ohms. The current strength was measured on a taugent galva- 
nometer, the constant of which was determined on a copper voltameter. 
^Vlien the lamp was giving 0.07 of a candle, it was consuming 0.445 
weber of current, equivalent to 0.024 horse-power. When it gave 14 
candles, the current was increased to only 1.079 webers, equivalent to 
0.110 horse-power. This latter result gives 120 candles . to the horse- 
l^ower of current, or, assuming 60 per cent, efficiency in the machine, 
72 candles per effective horsepower. — {Ann. Chim. PItys., V, xx, 275, 
June, 1880.) 

Swan has continued his experiments on incandescent lighting, begun, 
as he claims, as long ago as 1860. He uses carbon filaments made from 
parchment paper, 3 inches long, 0.01 inch in diameter, weighing -^g grain, 
sealed in exhausted globes. One of these has burned continuously for 
three months. — {Mature, xxiii, 104, December, 1880.) 



CHEMISTRY. 

By George F. Barker, 
Professor of Fhysics in the U7iiversiti/ of remisylcania, Philadelphia. 



CHEMICAL PHYSICS. 

Angus Smith has suggested a new series of elemental molecules, tlie 
relative weights of which are produced by squaring the atomic weights 
and dividing by the equivalence. This idea was reached in the course 
of his investigations into the absorption of gases by charcoal, in which 
it appeared that the gases were absorbed in perfectly definite volumes. 
Thus, eight volumes of oxygen are absorbed for one of hydrogen ; but as 
the former is IC times as heavy, the weights absorbed are as 1-8 : 1. 
But this is ^(16)2; i. e., half the square of the density, or half the square 
of the atomic weight, or half the product of the two. Of nitrogen 4.G6 
volumes are absorbed, orl4x-i.06 by weight, 65.3; this number is -i(14:)'^. 
Of compound gases the law is different. Carbonous oxide is absorbed 
to the extent of C volumes, carbon dioxide G 4-10= 22 volumes, marsh gas 
0+4=10 volumes, nitrogen monoxide 8+4.00=12.00 volumes. Hence 
the new molecular weight of CO2 is simi)ly 22^, &c. — [Kature, xix, 354, 
February, 1879.) 

Thomsen has studied the relation between the total energy developed 
in the chemical reactions which occur in various kinds of voltaic bat- 
teries and the energy which appears in the form of current electricity. 
He used a thermal method of measuring the total energy, and found that 
the whole of the energy developed in the chemical change appeared as 
electric energy in DanieU's battery on closed circuit, and also in the 
other forms of battery in which the metallic surface of the negative elec- 
trode is not changed by the electrolytic i^rocess. When nitric acid is 
used as the electrolyte the same total conversion of energy takes place, 
but the gradual absorption by the liquid of reduction products dimin- 
ishes the result.— (JVa/wre, xxiii, 207, December, 1880.) 

Hesehus has made a series of experiments upon the change in vol- 
ume and elasticity undergone by palladium when it occludes hydrogen. 
Wires SOO'"'" long and 0.4'"™ diameter were stretched in a tube of glass 
placed vertically and filled with diluted sulphuric acid, and made the 
cathode. By a cathetometer the elongation was directly measured 
during the absorption. The pure palladium wire elongated o'""^ ^^liile 
S. Mis. 31 19 ^^^ 



290 CHEMISTRY. 

wires of alloys with 25 i^er cent, of silver, platinum, and gold, elongated 
11.7™°^, 6.14"^™, and 0.9°^'^ respectively. Witli six bichromate cells the 
action was complete in an hour. After removing the battery the short- 
ening took place in the same order, though less rapidly ; being for the 
palladium wire only 2.6°^™ in 24 hours. The law of these variations was 
automatically recorded. The coefficient of elasticity of x^alladium pure 
fell from 15540 to 14000; and that of the silver alloy from 15240 to 
12500.— (J. Phys., ix, 365, October, 1880.) 

Berthelot has quoted Pictet's exj)eriments on the liquefaction of oxy- 
gen and hydrogen gases as illustrating his thermochemical views. The 
oxygen was prepared by heating potassium chlorate. Now, the reac- 
tion K CI 03 = K CI -f O3 according to Berthelot evolves 11 calories. 
Hence, being exothermic and not limited by its inverse, it is not arrested 
by a i)ressure of 320 atmospheres. The hydrogen was prepared hy the 
action of potassium hydrate uiion the formate. Since K CHO2 -j- K O 
H = K2 COa -f H2 evolves 18.4 calories, this action is also exothermic 
and not limited by an inverse reaction. Hence, the gas should be evolved, 
as Pictet found it to be, at over 600 atmospheres. Exothermic reactions 
continue, then, whatever the pressure. — {Ann. Ghim. Phys., V, xv, 149, 
October, 1878.) 

Thorpe has published the results of an extended research on the re- 
lation between the molecular weights of substances and their specific 
gravities when in a liquid state. He concludes : (1) that many isomeric 
liquids, even of the sam^e chemical type, have not identical specific grav- 
ities at their boiling points, and hence not identical specific volumes. 
Since this occurs mainly in compounds of carbon and hydrogen, the in- 
ference is that the specific volume of one or both of these bodies is not 
absolutely invariable ; (2) that oxygen, sulphur, and nitrogen have also 
variable specific volumes ; (3) that there is no evidence that the specific 
volume of any other element is variable ; (4) that the number of these 
latter atoms does not modify the volume, which is independent of the 
molecular complexity -, (5) that the different members of a family of ele- 
ments do not possess identical specific volumes, these volumes being 
periodic functions of the atomic weights ; (6) that no evidence is aftbrde<l 
that the specific volume is modified by any variation in the affinity value 
of any element. — {Nature, xxii, 262, July, 1880.) 

Violle has determined the specific heat and melting point of ijalla- 
dium, iridium, gold, and copper. For jialladium the specific heat was 
found to be, at 0^, 0,0582 ; at 500°, 0.0682 ; at 1000°, 0.0782; at 1300°, 
0.0842. For iridium, at Oo, 0.0317 ; at 500°, 0.0377 ; at 1000°, 0.0437, and 
at 1400°, 0.0485. Gold has a specific heat at 0° of 0.0324 ; at 900°, 
0.0345, and at 1020°, 0.0352. The fusing point of silver was found to 
be 9540 C. referred to the air thermometer; of gold, 1035°; of copper, 
10540 ; of palladium, 1500°; of platinum, 1775°, and of iridium, 1950°. 
—{J. Phys., ix, 81, March, 1880.) 

Victor and Carl Meyer, in determining the vapor density of chlorine 



CHEMISTRY. 291 

by their new method, the chlorine being j)roduced by dropping platinous 
chloride into the tube heated to 1200°, have found that at these high 
temi^eratures this gas has a density only two-thirds of that correspond- 
ing to the molecule CI2. Subsequently Crafts repeated the determination , 
using already-prepared chlorine, and found its density to be normal; a 
result confirmed by Victor Meyer, working in conjunction with Ziiblin. 
To reconcile these facts it seems to be necessary to admit that while 
free chlorine is stable at high temperatures, nascent chlorine is not, but 
undergoes dissociation into products not yet known. The results, how- 
ever, obtained by the German chemists with iodine, which showed the 
same anomaly, were fully confirmed by Crafts. Its vapor has at 1570° 
two-thirds of its normal density. Bromine is intermediate, its vapor 
density being reduced only one-fifth at high temperatures, when the 
bromine was free, and one-third when it was nascent. — {Ber. Berl. Chem. 
Ges., xii, 1426, 20GC, 2202, 2204, 1879; xiii, 394, 399, 401, 405, 851, 1050, 
1103, 1880; a R., xc, 183, 690; xci, 54; Nature, xxi, 461, March, 1880; 
Am. J. ScL, III, xviii, 222, 1879.) 

Oftret has revised the calculations of Pictet by which he reached a 
density of 0.9883 and 0.9787 for liquefied oxygen, and has shown errors 
in them by which the density is reduced to 0.8655 ; a result close to 
0.8402, which the author obtains by a diflerent process of computation. 
—{Ann. Ghim. Phys., Y, xix, 271, February, 1880.) 

Berthelot has published a work in two volumes, entitled "Essai de 
m^canique chimique fondee sur la Thermochimie." One of the laws it 
establishes is the following: "Every chemical change effected without 
the aid of foreign energ}^ tends toward the production of those bodies or 
of that system of bodies which evolves the most heat." Thus he shows 
that for the metals K, Na, Ca, Sr, Mg, Mn, Fe" Zn, Cd, Pb, (Ca,)" 
Hg," Ag and (Alz)"^', less heat results from the formation of oxides, than 
from the formation of chlorides. Hence gaseous chlorine should decom- 
pose these oxides, producing chlorides and evolving oxygen. This, in 
fact, actually takes place provided the reaction is initiated by suitably 
raising the temperature. — {J. Phys., viii, 402, December, 1879.) 

INORGANIC. 

Dumas has studied the property of occluding hydrogen possessed by 
certain metals, and finds that aluminum may occlude as much as one 
and a half times its volume of this gas, as well as traces of carbon 
dioxide. These gases were given out again when the metal was heated 
to redness in an exhausted tube. Magnesium exhibits a similar be- 
havior; so that to obtain these metals pure, they should be distilled in 
vacuo. These observations may throw some light on the anomalous 
behavior of aluminum when used as an electrode in the voltameter. — 
{Nature, xxii, 89, May, 1880.) 

Morley has made a series of careful analyses of air in order to ascer- 
tain the limits of the variation of the oxygen in a single locality. On 



292 CHEMISTRY. 

Loomis's theory that sudden depressions of temperature are caused by 
the vertical descent of cold air from the higher portions of the atmos- 
phere, the author conceived that such air might well contain a smaller 
l^roportion of oxygen than the average. In preparation for testing the 
question, he has made a number of experiments with apparatus specially 
constructed. In proof of its accuracy, he states that the probable error 
of a determination of oxygen in the air, is the 7200th part ; and the prob- 
able difference of two determinations on the same sample is the 5200th 
part. The air analyzed was taken in the open country during Decem- 
ber, 1878, and January and February, March and April, 1879. The mini- 
mum of oxygen observed was found in a sample taken on the 26th of 
February, when it was 20.45 and 20.50 in two experiments. The maxi- 
mum occurred in air taken on the 28th of December, 20.98 and 20.96 in 
two analyses. — {Am. J. Sci., Ill, xviii, 168, September, 1879.) 

Boussingault has investigated the production of oxygen from barium 
dioxide under diminished pressure, and shows that in a vacuum this sub- 
stance parts with oxygen at a low red heat. Conversely at about the 
same temperature, but at ordinary i^ressures, oxygen is readily absorbed 
again from the atmosphere by the lower oxide. Barium oxide may be 
successfully employed, therefore, on the large scale for obtaining i^ure 
oxygen from the atmosphere. The difficulty hitherto experienced was 
the fact that at the high temperature necessary to decompose the dioxide 
under ordinary pressures, some molecular change took i)lace which 
diminished largely its power of absori^tion. — {Ann. Chini. Phys., V, xix, 
461, April, 1880.) 

Hautefeuille and Chappuis have announced to the French Academy 
the liquefaction of ozone. By the use of a very low temperature they 
have succeeded in producing from oxygen, by the silent electric discharge, 
a greater quantity of ozone than hitherto, this at — 23<^ C. being 21 i^er 
cent. The ozonized oxygen was conducted into the cool tube of a Cail- 
letet's apparatus and pressure applied. After a few strokes of the pumj) 
the gas appeared azui'e blue in color, which increased with the pressure 
to dark indigo blue. On suddenly expanding the gas under 95 atmos- 
pheres pressure, a mist api)eared in the tube, indicating liquefaction. — 
{yature, xxii, 560, October, 1880.) 

Ogier has succeeded in effecting the combination of hydrogen chlo- 
ride and hydrogen phosi)hide gases by comj^ressing them together in a 
Cailletet's apf>aratus. When equal volumes of these two gases were com- 
pressed by a pressure of 14 atmospheres at 14°, combination took p'ace 
and small yellow crystals, very brilliant, appeared in the tube. If the 
l>rox>ortion had been accurately made and the gases were i)ure, they 
disappeared entirely, the walls of the tube being covered with the crystals 
with no trace of liquid. If, however, the upfter part of the tube be warmed 
with hot water to 20^, a liquid layer ajipears. If now the tube be cooled 
slowly, maintaining the i^ressure at 60 to 70 atmospheres, a point is 
reached when combination takes place and crystals are formed. A 



CHEMISTRT. 293 

partial vacuum is produced in the tube and the mercury rises. The 
liquid may also be obtained by a sudden compression and the solid by 
a sudden expansion, producing sufficient cold. — [J. Fhy^.. ix, 3S6, !S'ovem- 
ber, 18S0.) 

Maskelyne has examined two samples of material said to be crystal- 
lized carbon or diamond sand. The first Tras sent him by Mactear of 
.Glasgow. On testing it he found (a) that it would not scratch either 
sapphire or topaz : (&) the particles polarized light; and {c) were not com- 
bustible, hence the sample was not diamond dust. Since evaporation 
with hydrofluoric acid caused it to disappear, it was probably a silicate. 
The second sample came from Hannay. also of Glasgow, and consisted 
of small crystallized particles, which in luster, in lamellar structure 
on the cleavage surfaces, and in refractive jwwer, presented exactly 
the appearance of fragments of a broken diamond. They were inert in 
polarized light, they easily scored deep grooves in sapphire, and they 
were combustible, burning away entirely on xjlatinum foiL The angle 
between the cleavage fiices was 70" 29'. that of the diamond being 70° 
31'.7. Hannay has himself given an account of the production of these 
diamonds, in a paper read before the Eoyal Societv by Professor Stokes. 
This result is an outcome of his remarkable research on the solubility 
of solids in gases. He observed tliat when a gas containing carbon and 
hydrogen was heated under pressure in presence of certain metals, its hy- 
drogen is taken by the metal, and its carbon is set free . If this evolution of 
carbon takes place in presence of a stable compound containing nitrogen 
at a red heat and under a very high pressure, the carbon is obtained in 
the clear transparent form of the diamond. The specific gravity of the 
crystals is 3.5, and they yield on combustion 97. S5 per cent, of carbon. 
An iron tube 4 inches in diameter and half an inch bore was exhibited 
as one of the tubes used in the experiment. These tubes burst in nine 
cases out of ten.— {Xa/wre, xxi, 203, 260, 404. 421, 42G, 1S79-'S0.) 

Cooke has made additional experiments in support of his early result 
which fixed the atomic weight of antimony at 120.00 : a result obtained 
as a mean of fifreen analyses of five diflerent iireparations of antimony 
bromide. In the present jiaper he discusses the causes of error to which 
his previous method was liable, and concludes that they arise from the 
analytical process, and not from a want of ptuity of material ; and fur- 
ther that they are to a great extent under control. He then details the 
results of experiments made with the volumetric method, by precipitat- 
ing a known weight of antimonous bromide by a standard solution of 
pure silver. As a mean of five analyses, the percentage of bromine 
found was 06.0651, against 66.6665 given by the fifteen previous anal- 
yses, corresponding to an atomic weight of 120.01. The silver bromide 
formed in the last two experiments, on drying and weighing, gave two ad- 
ditional determinations— 120.01 and 120.00.— (JL?h. J. ScL, III. xix. 3S2. 
May, ISSO.) 

Humpidge has given an excellent resume of the progress of discovery 



294 CHEMISTRY. 

of new metallic elements, of wliich fourteen have been added to the list 
in about two years, eleven of these belonging, it is said, to the 3 ttrium 
or cerium group. The first was Davyum, a new metal of the platinum 
grouj) announced in 1877 by Kern ; probably a mixture. Then follow 
ytterbium by Marignac, X by Soret, mosandrum by Smith, phillippium 
and decipium by Delafontaine, thulium and holmium by Cleve and 
Thalen, samarium by Lecoq de Boisbaudran, scandium by Nilson, nor- 
wegium by Dahll, and vesbium by Scacchi. — [Nature, xxii, 232, July, 

1880.) 

OEGANIC. 

Thomsen, in a i)aper presented to the Berlin Chemical Society, has 
attempted to base a general theory of the structure of carbon compounds 
on thermal determinations. He does this by measuring (indirectly of 
course) the heat of dissociation of the carbon molecule, and from this 
and other data finding a thermal value for the combination of two car- 
bon atoms, to form a gaseous compound, by four "links," by three, by 
two, or by one. He thence deduces a thermal value for each link. Gen- 
eral equations are given for calculating the heats of formation of various 
isomers, assuming a certain linking of the atoms for each. In cases 
where various linkings may be assumed, a determination of the heat of 
formation may determine which linking, and therefore which structural 
formula, is the more jirobable. — {Ber. Berl. Chem. Ges., xiii, 1388, 1392, 
July, 1880; Nature, xxii, 512, October, 1880.) 

Beilstein and Kurbatow have examined the more volatile jDortions of 
the petroleum of Baku in the Caucasus, with a view of comparing them 
with the corresponding i)ortions of American petroleum. It had been 
observed that for the same boiling point the Caucasus fractions had a 
greater specific gravity. Hence a distrust of these Caucasus illuminat- 
ing oils, until it was shown that they had an illuminating power 10 per 
cent, higher than the American. The fractions obtained by the authors 
were: one boiling below 80°, with a gravity of 0.717; one from 80° to 
S50, 0.733; one from 85° to 90°, 0.711; one from 90° to 95°, 0.745; one 
from 950 to 1000, 0.748; and one from 100° to 105°, 0.752. Below 80° 
American petroleum yields hexane of gravity 0.GG9, while between 95° 
and 100° it gives heptane of gravity 0.699. To ascertam the cause of 
this difference the 80° to 85° fraction was agitated with fuming sulphuric 
acid; but no aromatic hydrocarbons were thus detected. Since analysis 
gives the formula Cu H2„, the fraction was examined for the olefines 
with bromine; but no action took place in the cold. On further study 
it appeared that these hydrocarbons belonged to a series obtained by 
hex-hydrogenatiug the aromatic hydrocarbons, the first member of which 
is hexahydrobenzene. Subsequent investigation showed the same series 
to be present in American petroleum, though in much smaller amount. — 
{Ber. Berl Chem. Ges., xiii, 1818, 2028, 1880.) 

Vincent and Delachanal have determined the density and the expan- 
sion coefficient of methyl chloride at various temperatures. For this 



CHEMISTRY. 295 

purpose they used a therinometric reservoir containing the liquid, \vlii(;h 
with its stem was carefully calibrated. The density found varied \c'ry 
regularly from 230.7, where it was 0.99145, to 39'^, with a value of 
0.87886. The expansion coefficient, was found to increase with the 
temperature, the ratio of the increase of the volume from t to < + l de- 
grees, to the volume at t, being at —30^, 0.001310; at — 0°, 0.001920 ; 
at 40O, 0.002313.— (Ann. Ghim. Phys.j V, xvi, 427, 1879.) 

Friedel and Ladenburg have continued their investigations upon or- 
ganic compounds containing silicon iu place of carbon, and have now 
given the results of their study of the silico-ethyl series. Silicon, they 
say, acts in a groui^ of carbon atoms like one of them, and nothing could 
resemble a hydrocarbon more perfectly than do silicon-ethyl and silicon- 
methyl. In their present paper they describe silicon hexaiodide Si2 le, 
silico-oxalic hydrate H2 Sh O4, silicon hexethyl, Si2 (C2 H5)6, silicon hexa- 
bromide Si2 Brc, and silicon hexachloride Si2 CIg. The latter has also 
been obtained by Troost and Hautefeuille. — (Ann. Ghim. Phys., V, xix, 
390, March, 1880.) 

De Forcraud has studied the production of new ultramarines by re- 
placing the sodium which is contained in the ordinary blue variety, 
more or less completely by other metals and even by organic radicals. 
Unger had obtained a green ultramarine in which half of the sodium 
was replaced by silver ; and Heumanu another, yellow in color, in which 
this replacement was complete. When this latter body is heated dry with 
a metallic or organic chloride, chloride of silver is formed and also a new 
ultramarine. After treating of the production of the silver ultramarine 
and the regeneration of the blue variety from it, and of the transformation 
of the silver body into ultramarines of i^otassium and rubidium, green- 
ish blue, of lithium, blue, of barium, yellowish brown, of zinc, violet, and 
of magnesium, gray, the author proceeds to describe the formation and 
properties of organic ultramarines. When the silver compound is 
heated with ethyl iodide, a gray slightly reddish body is obtained, which 
heated with sodium chloride gives ethyl chloride and blue ultramarine. 
It was therefore an ethyl-ultramarine. Similar ultramarines were ob- 
tained with the radicals allyl, amyl, and benzyl, and even with the 
quaternary ammoniums triethyl-phenyl-ammonium and tetramethyl-am- 
monium. — {Anii. Cliim. Phys., Y, xvii, 559, August, 1879.) 

Cooke has described a double tartrate analogous to tartar emetic, iu 
which the potassium is replaced by silver, and which he calls therefore 
silver emetic, or argeuto-antimonious tartrate. Although i^reviously 
observed, its properties have been only incompletely examined since it 
was in an amorphous condition. It is more soluble in water than at 
first suijposed, requiring oue hundred parts of boiling Avater and less 
than live hundred parts of water at 15° 0. for its solution. Hence by 
dissolving in boiling water and allowing the solution to cool, colorless 
brilliant crystals were obtained belonging to the orthorhombic system. 
They blacken on exi)osure to light, and decompose at 200° with slight 



296 CHEMISTRY. 

exi)losion, leaving spangles of metallic silver mixed with an amorphous 
powder of autimouous oxide. It contained 26.30 per cent, of silver. — 
{Am. J. Sci., Ill, xix, 393, May, 1880.) 

Grimaux and Adam have succeeded in effecting the synthesis of citric 
acid from glycerin. Since glycerin is tri-hydroxyl-propane and citric 
acid is hydroxyl-tri-carboxyl-propane, the theoretical conversion of the 
former into the latter requires only the substitution of three carboxyls 
for two hydroxyls and one hydrogen. Practically, this replacement 
was effected in several stages: first, by the action of hydrochloric i^cid 
on glycerin, dichlorhydrin, or hydroxyl-dichlor-propane, was produced. 
By chromic acid this was oxidized to dichloracetone or oxydichlor- 
propane. This, by the action of concentrated hydrocyanic acid, gave 
dichloracetone- cyanhydriu, or hydroxyl-cyan-dichlor-piopane. By sa- 
ponifying with hydrochloric acid, the corresponding acid hydroxyl- 
carboxyl-dichlor-proi)ane was obtained. The sodium salt of this was 
treated with j)otassium cyanide, giving hydroxyl-carboxyl-dicyan-i^ro- 
j)ane. And this, when saponified as before, gave hydroxyl-tricarboxyl- 
jjropane, or citric acid, identical in all its properties with that obtained 
from lemons. Since glycerin can be made from trichlorhydrin, which 
may be made by the action of chlorine on propylene, and since propy- 
lene can be made from marsh gas and carbouous oxide, marsh gas itself 
being i)roducible from carbon and hydrogen, the synthesis is complete 
from the simple elements up to citric acid. — {Nature, xxii, 585, October, 
1880.) 

Eosenstiehl has given the processes by which Baeyer has succeeded 
in synthesizing indigotin, the coloring matter of indigo. Two of these 
are described, in both of which cinnamic acid is taken as the point of 
departure. On nitration, this acid yields orthonitro-cinnamic acid ; and 
this is converted {a) into orthonitro-phenyl-propiolic acid by bromi- 
nating and subsequently saponifying; or {b) into orthonitro-phenyl- 
oxyacrylic acid by treatment with hyj)ochlorous acid and subsequent 
saponification. The action of heat alone converts this latter acid into 
indigotin, a temj)erature of 110° 0. being sufficient. But the action is 
complex and the yield is small. Orthonitro-phenyl-j)ropiolic acid is con- 
verted into indigotin by heating it with a mixture of alkali carbonate 
and glucose, to 110° C. The action is regular, the indigotin separates 
in the crystalline form, and the process has the very great commercial 
advantage that the coloring matter can be developed directly on the 
cloth. The mixture of the acid with the alkali and glucose being 
printed on the cloth, exposure to superheated steam develops the color 
fixed in the fiber. — {Ann. Chim. Fhys., xxi, 286, October, 1880.) 

Spiller has devised a simple means of identifying the coal-tar colors, 
founded on the action of sulphuric acid on the dyeing material taken in 
conjunction with the shades produced on and the tendency to dye silk, 
wool, or cotton. The most striking reactions are as follows : Magdala 
red with suli^huric acid gives a blue-black; saffranin a grass-green, be- 



CHEMISTRY. 297 

coming indigo blue on strongly heating; clirysoiclin deep orange, turn- 
ing almost to scarlet on heating; alizarin, ruby-red or maroon; eosin, 
golden -yellow; primrose (naphthalene yellow), first yellow then color 
discharged; chrysaniline, brown fluorescence; aurin, yellowish brown; 
atlas orange, rose-color, changing to scarlet on heating; atlas scarlet, no 
alteration; biebrich scarlet (E), blue-black; ditto (B), blue-green; aniline 
scarlet, permanent golden-yellow; indulin, slaty blue to indigo. All 
violets give a yellow or brownish yellow; phenyl and diphenylamine 
blues dark brown solutions ; iodine and malachite greens bright yellow 
solutions, the former giving ofl" iodine on heating; and finally citronin, 
which gives a i^ale cinnamon color or a neutral tint. — {JSfature, xxii, 448, 
September, 188Q.) 

Schiitzenberger has given in an elaborate memoir the results of his 
investigations into the chemical character of albumen based on the ob- 
servation that Avhen subjected, under suitable conditions, to the action 
of baryta water it breaks up entirely, or almost entirely, into definite 
crystallizable principles. His results show that the mixture of fixed 
principles derived from albumen by hydration contains only amido-de- 
rivatives, and that these may be divided into two unequal portions ; 
one, about 16 or 18 i)er cent., containing substances in which the nitro- 
gen ratio is 1:3, 1:4 or 2:5, mostly acids; and a second, four- fifths of the 
residue, represented by the formula (CuH2nlN"204)x, the value for n being 
a little less than nine. Albumen is therefore probably an imido-deriva- 
tive, which changes by hydration into a mixture of amido-deriva- 
tivGS.— {Ann. Chim. Phys., V, xvi, 289, March, 1879; J. Ghem. 8oc., 
xxxvi, 546, July, 1879.) 



MINERALOGY. 



By George W. IIawes, Ph. D., 

Curator in the National Musenm. 



It is unnecessary to state that in the past two years numerous con- 
tributions have been made to our knowledge of the constituents of 
the earth, for miueralogical study excites interest upon so many sides, 
and is demanded for so many economic as well as scientific purposes, 
that the num«ber of workers in this department is always sure to be large. 
But it is of peculiar interest to note the number and the character of the 
investigations which have been made in this country, and the attention 
which they have excited at home and abroad. In looking over the list 
of new species it will be seen that many of the most interesting have 
been found here. This is not strange, considering the rapid de\'elop- 
ment of our mining industries and the explorations that have been 
made in unknown territories. But the iinding of new minerals is not at 
present the highest of mineralogical accomplishments, and a new name 
is a burden and not an aid to science. A very different thing is such 
study devoted to a new species as puts us in possession of new informa- 
tion; and it is to the character of the new species and to the study 
devoted to them that the prominence of American work during this 
period is due. 

We will therefore first consider the new discoveries that are purely 
American, and then we will return to more general considerations. 

AMERICAN PROGRESS. 

Prof. E. S. Dana, in x)reparing a previous record of mineralogical ]}vo- 
gress, modestly refrained from assigning a prominent position to the 
results of the explorations in Branch ville, yet it may safely be said that 
so fruitful a locality has for many years not been found in any land. 
Up to the beginning of 1879 they had extracted five new species, but 
shice that time they have found two additional manganese phosphates, 
making seven in all, and also a new and interesting lithium aluminum 
silicate. In addition, many rare though previously described minerals 
have been there found by them, and nuich interesting analytical work 
has been done upon this material by Messrs. Penfield and Com stock. 
These analyses have also suggested investigations that have resulted in 

299 



300 MINERALOGY. 

a more certain determination of the formulce of several species and to 
the discovery of verj' interesting varieties of old ones. Mr. Comstock 
analyzed the tantalite, which occurs at Brauchville, together with im- 
mense crystals of the rare columbite, and also analyzed and fixed the 
formula of uraninite, which before had never been found in such fine 
and fresh crystals, and of which, therefore, no material so suitable for 
analysis had been found. Mr. Penfleld reached also as interesting re- 
sults in his analyses of triphyllite and amblygonite, and also analyzed 
ii novel variety of apatite which was found to contain a large amount of 
manganese. Profs. Brush and Dana have once more demonstrated the 
economic value of scientific industry. Their new minerals were found in 
a very coarse-grained vein of pegmatite. They also found there immense 
crystals of i)otash feldspar of the variety microcliue, also masses of clear, 
pure quartz. Having extracted many tons of these materials as waste 
products in their search for the rare minerals, they took occasion to call 
the attention of a porcelain manufacturer to it, and he found on trial 
that the feldspar was eminently suited for the manufacture of his 
wares, as was also the quartz. He therefore j^urchased the property, 
and these materials have been systematically and extensively extracted 
ever since. 

Profs. Brush and Dana have made another most imjiortant discovery, 
fully equal in interest to their discovery of new species, since by means 
of it they have perfected our knowledge of a species previously little 
understood. The calcium borosilicate danburite was discovered many 
years ago by Prof. C. TJ. Shepard, though its chemical composition was 
subsequently first correctly determined by Profs. J. L. Smith and 
Brush. Yet so small and imperfect were the grains then found that its 
mode of crystallization was never known, or at least its form could not 
be correctly determined. It was thought to be triclinic. Through the 
discovery of these gentlemen all the cabinets of the world are, or will be, 
enriched with large and beautifully crystallized specimens of this hereto- 
fore rare and insignificant species. The new locality is in Eussell, New 
York, where danburite occurs in large, compact, rock-like masses and fine 
crystals of perfect form. The little crystals are white and transparent, 
and the large ones are also very perfectly formed. They are rhombic 
in form, and, what is most remarkable, although it possesses no appar- 
ent chemical affinity with topaz, its crystals are so deceptively like it 
that no one would hesitate to i)ronounce it toijaz from its outward ap- 
pearance. This resemblance extends yet further ; its axes are very 
nearly identical in length, and its optical properties are nearly the 
same as in topaz. Other cases of close resemblance in form between 
unrelated chemical compounds are known. Calcite resembles soda nitre, 
for example, and aragonite resembles saltpeter. Such resemblances of 
the present time can only be explained as being the accidental resem- 
blances, like those of faces in a crowd. But the fact that this borosilicate 
resembles topaz even in the minute details of arrangement of its crystal- 



MINERALOGY. 301 

line planes, indicates that we have perhaps much yet to learn concern- 
ing? isomorphism. 

One of the most interesting studies of this period has been made upon 
the lithium aluminum silicate spodumeue and the products of its alter- 
ations. Mr. Alexis A. Julien, of Columbia College, first examined the 
specimens that he obtained in Massachusetts. Spodumeue, by the action 
of decomposing reagents in nature, exchanges its lithia for potash or 
soda, and becomes altered into a variety of substances, one of the most 
characteristic of which has been called cymatolite, Mr. Julien analyzed 
this substance and endeavored to fix its composition. But at Branch- 
ville. Profs. Brush and Dana found immense crystals which were origi- 
nally all of spodumeue, and which had decomposed in such a way as to 
enable them to make a most interesting investigation and arrive at new 
results. These crystals were of very great dimensions, some being over 
four feet long and a foot wide. Their interiors were still of a beautiful 
clear pink spodumeue, but they were mostly altered into mica, albite, 
cymatolite, and a translucent substance which they provisionally called 
/3 spodumeue. By chemical and microscopic study they demonstrated 
that this so-called cymatolite was composed of a very intimate mixture 
of white mica and albite, and that the /3 spodumeue was composed of 
albite and a new mineral, which they have called eucryptite, and which 
will be found described beyond. The study of such processes of altera- 
tion is very important, since it develops facts of geological importance, 
and the changes which this spodumeue has undergone form an inter- 
esting chapter in the history of jiseudomorphs. 

Mr. Harrington, of Montreal, has made an important study of the apa- 
tites and their associated minerals in Canada. As is well known, very 
large deposits of clear green and otherwise colored apatite occur there 
from which very large quantities are annually taken to be crushed and 
manufactured into sui)erphosphates for agricultural purposes. Such 
deposits also occur in Norway, where they have been studied by Pro- 
fessors Brogger and Reusch, who determined them to be of eruptive 
origin. Professor Harrington, after showing that they occur in rocks of 
a similar nature, though unlike in detail, shows that there is abundant 
reason for considering that they are not eruptive rocks, and thinks that 
they were gathered by and crystallized from solutions. I will recall in 
this connection that M. Daubree made apatite in a closed tube, by 
causing a volatile phosphorous comiiound to act upon hot limestone, 
and he thinks that some such deposits may have been formed by subli- 
mation. The opinion of Dr. Harrington is sustained by the previousl^'- 
formed opinion of Dr. Hunt, and it will be seen that every possible mode 
of origin has to-day weighty opinion in its favor. But argument of 
such questions is progress, and is a long step toward conclusion, and 
these studies have contributed much to our knowledge of these deposits. 
Mr. Harrington describes immense crystals of apatite a foot or more in 
diameter and several feet long. Mr. Adams and Mr. Hofmann have 



302 MINERALOGY. 

also been busy analyzing Canadian minerals. Yery interesting are 
the analyses of scapolites by Mr. Adams. He found them all to con- 
tain chlorine, the overlooking of which was probably the cause of the 
evident errors of previous analyses. 

The relationship in which hornblende and pyroxene stand to each 
other has always been a favorite subject. Although each species has 
numerous varieties of very variable composition, each possesses the 
same chemical varieties, and they are therefore considered as dimorphous. 
Moreover there is a very definite relationship between their forms, since 
doubling the length of one axis in pyroxene gives the axes of hornblende. 
Another feature that has attracted much interest is that pyroxene tends 
to alter its own internal molecular structure into that of hornblende. 
This results in giving us quite perfect crystals apparently pyroxene, 
but which possess the cleavage and optical iiroperties of the allied spe- 
cies. Since the two species may be identical in composition, this has 
usually been spoken of as a case of paramorphism, of which we have 
some other illustrations. Calcium carbonate crystallized as aragonite 
can, for example, be internally altered tocalcite, which change involves 
no chemical alteration. But Mr. Harrington among the apatite deposits 
has succeeded in finding pyroxene crystals in which this process of alter- 
ation was in progress, and in some cases had progressed to that extent 
that the crystals were internally pyroxene and externally of horn- 
blende. Analyses of the materials in all cases showed that a chemical 
change had taken place, which was largely expressed in a loss of lime. 
In other words, the pyroxene was changed, not into a hornblende of a 
like comj)osition, but a hornblende of different composition. Pyroxene 
crystals altered into hornblende have been called uralite, because first 
brought from the Urals by Gustav Eose. Professor Harrington's analy- 
ses demonstrate that his crystals are to be considered as pseudomorphs, 
and not as paramorphs. 

Mr. Hidden has been seeking minerals in the Southern States. 
Among others he has found some very beautiful, transparent, green 
crystals of spodumene, which are a novelty and an interesting addition 
to the varieties of this species. Some immense crystals of sphene, 
weighing fifty pounds or more, have been brought from Eenfrew, in 
Canada. Dr. Shepard has bought the celebrated Graves Mountain, 
Georgia, and has mined from it great numbers of very large and very 
beautiful rutile crystals ; and the shelves of the mineral dealers will be 
found enriched with a great deal of material from new localities that 
have been develoiDcd during the past two years. 

Meteorites. — When one remembers how very few are the meteorites 
that have been seen to fall and have then been found, and the general 
and keen interest felt by the whole scientific world in these celestial 
bodies, the very remarkable fall of meteorites that took place in our 
country last year must be considered as an important event. Most of the 



MINERALOGY. 303 

meteorites thus far found possess thoroughly individual characteristics ; 
therefore each ne^Y discovery of a meteorite is met with the expectation 
of some new information regarding the composition and history of other 
worlds than ours. This new meteorite was thoroughly unique in its 
general character and brought to us a mineral which was heretofore 
unknown. 

In Emmett County, Iowa, on the 10th of May, 1879, at five o'clock in 
the afternoon, although the sun was still shining and the day clear, a 
large meteorite was seen to pass across the sky. One person saw it at 
a distance of one hundred miles from the place of its fall. It is said to 
have made a noise "terrible and indescribable," which was louder than 
that of artillery, aud which frightened the cattle as much as the peojile. 
One piece, five hundred pounds in weight, struck the earth at such a 
velocity that it buried itself fourteen feet in a stiff clay soil, A second 
piece, weighing one hundred and seventy pounds, and a third, weighing 
one hundred and forty j)ounds, were found in the neighborhood. More- 
over, the prairie far aud near was scattered with little pieces, hundreds 
of which were gathered. One remembers in this connection the multi- 
tude of little meteorites which fell at Pultusk, one or more of which are 
in every collection. The largest of the pieces of this Emmett County 
meteorite was sold for a great sum to the British Museum ; * the second 
piece remained in the Iowa University collection, and the third was 
purchased by Yale College. The circumstances of the foil of this me- 
teorite were first described by Professor Peckham, and Dr. J. Lawrence 
Smith afterward submitted it to careful investigation in the laboratory, 
and found it to contain a new magnesium iron silicate, which he named 
Peckhamite. The other constituents were chiefly metallic iron and 
olivine, which are common constituents of meteorites, but this meteorite 
was characterized by the great size of its olivine grains. It is partly on 
account of such large crystals that it is commonly believed that these 
meteorites once formed parts of greater bodies, from which they have 
been broken. The history of Biela's comet will be remembered in this 
connection, which on one of its periodic appearances was found to have 
divided, and which subsequently finally disappeared from the sky, 
though a meteoric shower occurred at about the time that it should 
have appeared. 

Mr. Hidden has also found some interesting meteoric irons in the 
South. One of these was plowed out of the ground iu Cleburne 
County, Alabama, in 1S73. Though the circumstance of its being 
metallic iron excited the curiosity of the people, no one corisidered it 
as anything of value. A piece of it was forged into a tool, and the 
rest lay for years in the blacksmith shop, unknown and unappreciated. 
It l^as now been investigated by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, who has done 
so much in the chemical study of these bodies. 

Another block of meteoric iron weighing 120 pounds has been found 
* Wo should have a fund to keep such interesting things in this country. 



304 MINERALOGY. 

at Ivanpali, Cal., by Mr. S. Goddard. It has been partially described 
by Prof. C. U. Shepard, and is in the possession of Mr. Hanks, the 
State geologist of California. 

It is known that etched surfaces of meteoric irons exhibit definite 
figures resultant from the crystallization of the iron, and which not 
appearing upon surfaces of common iron have been considered as char- 
acteristic of meteoric iron. Mr. Daubre^, and afterward Meunier, 
succeeded in obtaining such figures on nickeliferous iron, and now Dr. 
J. Lawrence Smith has succeeded in inducing like figures upon polished 
surfaces of iron containing silicon. Add to this the circumstance that 
the same happens when the Ovifak iron, which is now generally ad- 
mitted to be terrestrial, is treated, and it can scarcely be claimed any 
longer that these figures are alone characteristic of meteoric irons. 

NEW MINERALS. 

We will now refer briefly to the new minerals that have been de- 
scribed. We think it willbe seen that, if a few minerals should be struck 
from this list, this portion might be left out of a report upon progress, 
for many of these new minerals are described more for the zeal for nam- 
ing than for any information of interest that their study has developed. 
Abriachantite. — An impure, bluish clay, like mineral, named by Heddle 
after the locality where it is found in Scotland. A name given to a 
poorly identified species. 
Animilcite. — A very basic silver antimonide found by H. Wurtz at Silver 
Islet, in Lake Sui^erior. Its name is derived from animikie, which 
means thunder 5 whence Thunder Bay derives its name. It is not 
established as a species. 
Bernardinite. — A new mineral resin found by J. M. Stillman, in San 
Bernardino County, CaUfornia. It is white in color, and so porous 
and light that it will float on water. A new resin has also been 
described by C. Dolter in the communications of the Steinmark natural 
history society. It was found by him in the tertiary lignites. 
BhrecJcite. — A substance found by Heddle at Ben Bhreck, in Sutherland, 
Scotland. A calcareous chlorite like mineral of undetermined com- 
position. Named on account of the possibility that it might prove 
new. 
Eggonite. — Probably a cadmium silicate, which is found in minute light 
brown crystals on calamine at Altenberg, near Aix-la-Chai^elle. It 
was described by Schrauf, who determined it to be triclinic, but he 
did not definitely decide its composition. 
Elenorite. — An hydrous iron phosphate, found by A. ISTies in the Eloe- 
nore mine, near Giessen. It is rhombic, dark brown, translucent, and 
vitreous in luster. Its investigation is, however, still incomplete. 
Eucrijptite. — A lithium aluminum silicate, discovered by Brush and 
Dana, at Branchville, Conn. It is intimately intermingled with 
albite, forming what they call /? spodumene. The two minerals are 



< 



MINERALOGY. ' 305 

arranged with reference to one another as are quartz and feldspar in 
schrift granite, and, as in this case the mineral intermingled with 
the feldspar is hexagonal. *In composition it is somewhat related 
to muscovite or nephelin. It is white and fibrous, and only detected 
by microscopic examination. Named from su, well, and /.pu-rdq, con- 
cealed. 

Etiralite. — A dark-green chloritic substance, resembling delessite, and 
found by F. J. Wilk, at Eura Kirchspiel, Finland. 

Fairfieldite. — An hydrous manganese calcium phosphate, found by Brush 
and Dana, at Branchville, in Fairfield County, Connecticut. It is a 
colorless and transparent mineral with a good cleavage, and triclinic 
in crystallization. 

Filloicite. — A mineral found by Brnsh and Dana at Branchville, and 
named after the owner of the property on whose land they explored. 
Occurs in granular and crystalline grains, the latter looking like 
rhombohedrous but really monoclinic in form. It is a manganese 
phosphate containing a little iron and soda, and of a wax-yellow color. 

Fredricite. — A mineral related to tetrahedrite, but contains lead and 
tin. It is found in massive, iron-black pieces, at the Fain mine, 
Sweden, and is chiefly composed of copper, sulx)hur, and arsenic. 
Described by Hj. Sjogren. 

Gelatinous eliabazite. — Eenevier found a gelatinous substance in fissures 
in the conglomerate near Lausanne, Switzerland, that had the com- 
position of chabazite. He called it a mineral in embryonic condition. 
This was inappropriate, because no such condition is possible in the 
organic kingdom. A mineral is complete as soon as formed, and 
its crystalline condition is one of its essential properties. This is a 
new mineral if its composition is definite. 

Guejarite. — A copper antimony sulphide, fouud by M. E. Cnmenge in a 
vein of spathic iron, at Guejar, in the Spanish Sierra Nevadas. Oc- 
curs in bright crystalline plates, that are sometimes quite large. It 
is quite heavy, is steel-gray in color, and of rhombic crystallization. 

Hannayite. — A hydrous magnesium ammonium phosi^hate found in the 
guano beds at Victoria. It was determined and named by vom Eath, 
and found to be triclinic in crystallization. 

Haughtonite. — A black mica, which was taken out of gneiss from Eoneval, 
and analyzed by Heddle. It is intermediate between biotite and lepi- 
domelane, and consequently scarcely needs any new name. 

Meldhurgitc. — Another mineral of unknown composition, but iiossessing 
angles like those of Zircon. It is a yellow mineral seen in the feldspar 
of phonolite from Heldburg in Colburg, by O. Luedecke. 

Serrengrundite. — A basic copper sulphate from Herrengrund, Hungary. 
Occurs in six-sided tabular crystals of the monoclinic system. In 
color it is dark emerald green. Occurs mixed with gypsum, malachite, 
and calcite. (See urvolgyrite.) 
S. Mis. 31 20 



306 MINERALOGY. 

Hofmannite. — A colorless, tasteless hydrocarbon, found in tabular crys- 
tals, on lignite. Described by Bechi. 

Huntilite. — A mineral named by Henry Wurtz after Dr. T. Sterry Hunt. 
It is a basic silver arsenide, but poorly determined. Found at Silver 
Islet, Lake Superior. 

Koflacliite. — This is a kind of mineral pitch or resin, found by G. Doelter 
near Koflach. The author names it with doubt, and says it is very 
near Jaulingite, another resin ibund at the same place. 

LeucomanganUe. — A foliated, radiated, snow-white mineral, composed of 
manganese and iron protoxides, alkali, and water in unknown pro- 
portions. Named by Sandbergwr. 

Lintonite. — An hj^drous calcium aluminum sodium silicate, closely allied, 
perhaps, identical, with thompaonite, which was found in amygda- 
loidal cavities in diabase near Grand Marias, Cook County, Minnesota. 
Named after Miss Laura Linton, the analyst of the specimens. 

Louisite. — A leek-green translucent vitreous brittle mineral found Ijy D. 
Honeymau, at Blomidon, Nova Scotia, and named from the princess, 
It is an hydrous lime potash silicate. 

Luckite. — An hydrous manganese iron sulphate, found with mallardite 
in the Luckyboy silver mine, Butterfield Canon, Utah. It is clear, 
with a bluish tint ; found in indistinct striated j)risms in a black bitu- 
minous rock, isomorphous with melanterite, from which it differs in 
the presence of manganese. Described by A. Carnot. 

MaUardite. — An hydrous manganese sulphate, soluble in water, de- 
scribed by A. Carnot, from the Luckyboy silver mine, Butterfield 
Canon, Utah. It occurs in colorless fibrous cr^^stals in a gray clay 
like stone, together with quartz and barite. 

Mixite. — A copper bismuth arsenate containing water. It is found as 
an emerald or bluish-green incrustation on bismuth ochre. It forms 
spherical and reniform aggregations, and granular irregular i^ar- 
ticles. Found in the Joachimsthal, and determined by A. Schrauf. 

Newberyife. — Another mineral found by vom Eath in the Victoria guano 
beds ; it is a magnesium i^hosphate containing water, and orthorhom- 
bic in crystallization. 

Ontariolite. — An '' embryonic" mineral, named before its investigation by 
Prof. C. U. Shepard. It is a member of the scapolite family, found at 
Ottawa, Canada. 

Orizite. — A mineral of the composition of heulandite found in the tour- 
maline granite at San Piero in Campo, by Grattarola. It occurs in 
crystals, and crystalline grains of the color and luster of rice kernels. 

Peclihaniite. — A magnesium iron silicate found by Dr. J. Lawrence 
Smith in the meteorite that fell in Emmet County, Iowa. It is dingy- 
yellow in color, has a perfect cleavage, and occurs in nodules several 
millimeters in diameter. It is intermediate between olivine and bron- 
zite. Named after Professor Peckham, who first described the fall of 
this remarkable meteorite (see Meteorites). 



MINERALOGY. 307 

Pkiladelphife. — A miueral foiuul in a decoinijosing liornblondic gneiss 
on Germantown Avenue, Philadelpliia. In comi)Osition and properties 
related to verniiculite. A pearly niicaceous mineral, wliicli exfoliates 
when heated to ten times its original volume. Described by lleury (J. 
Lewis, of Philadelpliia. 

PJiospJniranylite. — A pulverulent incrustation found on quartz and feld- 
spar, of a pearly luster, and lemon-yellow color, and determined by 
F. A. Geuth to be a hydrous uranium i)hosphate. 

Picite. — A hydrous iron phospUate which like the Elenorite, before 
mentioned, is found in a mine near Giessen. It is amorphous dark 
brown translucent, and has a fatty luster. It occurs in little stalac- 
tites, and spherical concretions, or in coats on other minerals. 

Plagiocitrite Klinophmte and Wattevillite, are some hydrous sulphates 
found by S. Singer on the Bauersberg near Bischofsheim, on the 
Rhone. They resulted from reactions between the decomposing ])yrites 
in some lignite beds, and an underlying basalt, or the tuff mixed with 
the lignite. They remain to be further investigated. 

Pseudonatrolite. — A new zeolite described by Grattarola from San Piero 
in Campo. It is found in minute colorless crystals with a glassy 
l)early luster, and probably orthorhombic in crystallization. It is a 
calcium aluminum silicate, and named from its relation to natrolite. 

Bandite. — A lemon-yellow incrustation found on granite and deteruiined 
to be a calcium uranium carbonate, near liebigite in composition. 
Named for T. D. Eaud of Philadelphia by G. A. Koenig. 

Reinite. — A pure iron tungstate, discovered by Professor llein in Kim- 
bosan, Japan, and investigated by K. von Fritsch and Luedecke. It 
is a black-brown opaque substance; found in large square crystals 
assumed by analogy to be monoclinic. 

Thaumasite. — A white translucent mineral, from Aareskutan, described 
by G. Lindstrom, with fatty glance, and choncoidal fracture. It is 
an hydrous lime carbonate, sulphate, and silicate. One would think 
it a mixture, but several analyses exactly agree, and Tornebohm, a 
careful analyst, is assured that it is no mixture. One will remember 
cancrinite, which is a silicate and carbonate. This miueral is justly 
named from {^autj.a'^u)^ to wonder. 

Titanomorpliite. — The gray translucent substance which is so very fre- 
quently found in microscopic sections of rocks as a decomposition prod- 
uct of titanic iron and rutile, has been the subject of much discussion. 
It has never been found practical to separate it and analyze it, hence 
its composition has always been a subject of si^eculation ; von Lasaulx 
found masses in an amphibolite, from Hohe Eule, of sufficient size to 
analyze. He fixed its composition as a calcium titauate, identical 
with perowskite. The substance previously had two or three names, 
and was best known as leucoxene, a name given by Giimbel. It was 
scarcely necessary to give it another. 



308 MINERALOGY. 

TrippTceite. — A copper arsenite from Chili, the composition of which 
was determiued by A. Damour, and the crystallographic properties 
by G. vom Eath. It is a quadratic mineral, the optical proof of which 
was furnished by Des Cloizeaux. It was named for Dr. Paul Tripkie, 
a mineralogist in Bonn, who was unfortunately killed shortly after he 
had found this mineral, which he suspected to be new. 

Tysonite. — A mineral found by Messrs. Tyson and Wood, on Pike's 
Peak. It was found by Prof. O. D. Allen and Mr. W. J. Comstock 
to be a fluoride of the rare earths cerium lanthanum and didymium. 
It is a hexagonal mineral of vitreous and wax-yellow color, and very 
heavy. It was named from the finder. 

Urisite. — An hydrous iron sulphate, containing soda, described by A. 
Frenzel. It has a citron or i)omegranate yellow color, and occurs in 
rhombic crystals. It was obtained in the Caucasus. 

Urvolfjyite. — This is the same thing as the Herrengrundite described by 
Brezina. This name was given by Szabo, but the lime which Brezina 
found resulted from an intermixture of gypsum, Szabo considered to 
be an essential constituent. 

Xantholite. — Another of Heddle's possibly new minerals. Found at Loch 
Ness, Scotland. Like grenatite, but of different color. A poorly de- 
termiued species. 

IMPORTANT STUDIES. 

It will be noticed that many of the new studies have consisted in the 
continued application of the later developed optical methods to pre- 
viously-determined species. This is because the ideas which constitute 
a crystal have been changed, thus necessitating a reinvestigation of all 
minerals. One sees no more in the new text books that a crystal is a 
l)ody bounded by planes symmetrically arranged by forces of crystal- 
lization. But a crystal is a body with a defined molecular structure, 
possessing like elasticity in like directions. The planes which may or 
may not bound such a substance are simply one of the features of this 
molecular structure, in the same way as are the optical, electric, mag- 
netic, thermal, and other properties. The isometric crystalline form 
of a substance can be more perfectly established by the examination of 
a pair of sections from an irregular fragment than from the outer form 
of a developed geometrical form. Opaque substances only are investi- 
gated in the same way as of old, and even these can be studied by thermal 
methods. The degree of symmetry in crj^stals are considered as the 
I)rominent features in geometrical study, and the crystalline axes, such 
as are not assumed for simple convenience of calculation, are the nor- 
mals to these planes, and not imaginery lines. These princiides, which 
have much simplified the science in some directions and comi^licated it 
in others, are not new developments, but progress worthy of note has been 
made in the more general acceptation of the new system and its intro- 
duction into elementary instruction. 



MINERALOGY. 309 

Felds2)ar. — The study of the chemical relationships of the feldspars has 
deeply interested mineralogists for several years. It will be recalled 
that Tschermak, by a laborious investigation, attemjited to systematize 
all those kinds of feldspar of intermediate content of silica by a tlieory 
of isomorphism of the extreme members of the group. This theory 
was i)re vented from receiving general acceptation by the researches of 
Des Cloizeaux, who gave definite oi)tical properties for the oligoclase and 
labradorite as well as the rest. But now Schuster, by a more extended 
series of investigations, has been convinced that in optical as well as 
other properties, all these intermediate species do form a regularly pro- 
gressive series, such as might be expected to result from isomorphous 
combinations. Many speculations have been made with the view of ex- 
jdaining how a lime alumina silicate like anorthite can be isomorphous 
with potasli or soda alumina silicates, which, like albite and microcline, 
are of entirely difierent atomic ratio. The satisfactory understanding 
of this is a thing to be determined when knowledge is further advanced. 
The feet of the isomorphism is admitted, and the theory of the isomorphous 
replacements to form intermediate feldspar species has gained ground. 

The dimorphism of potash feldspar has been known for some time. 
But it has proved to be quite surprising to find that the new species 
microcline is on the whole much more abundant than the old species 
orthoclase, which previously embraced the whole. Microcline differs 
but extremely little in geometrical form from orthoclase, but its optical 
properties are very markedly different. It is composed of a series of 
laminie most intricately interwoven, a result of twinning according to 
two different systems. Now Levy has lately shown that if this system 
of twinning, which is sometimes carried to such an extent that the indi- 
vidual laminte become minutely microscoijic, were only repeated still 
further, and the laminae subdivided until even the microscope could not 
detect them, such a microcline would have all the properties, optical 
and otherwise, of orthoclase. In this he is supported by able French 
mineralogists, and it would appear as if we were liable to lose the old 
classic orthoclase altogether. 

Other studies of ticins.—A twinning plane becomes of necessity a plane 
of symmetry, and thus by simple repetition of this process very regular 
bodies result from the least symmetrical. The process of reducing well- 
known minerals to less symmetrical systems has gone on as vigorously 
as heretofore. For example, chabazite, which was considered as a most 
typical rhombohedral mineral, has been shown by Becke to receiv'e its 
usual form by the repeated twinning of its triclinic crystals. Leucite, 
which at the time of the last review had with general consent been re- 
duced from the isometric to the quadratic system, has since been found 
by Websky to be orthorhombic, and by others has been considered as 
still less symmetrical. Perowskite and Boracite receive their apparent 
isometric forms by the repeated twinning of rhombic crystals. Other 
examples might be given, but these axe suflicient to show what is being 



310 MINERALOGY. 

done in these directions. The results of such studies, if of interest in 
detail to but few (and they are treated with utmost detail), must not be 
underestimated, for they tend toward a better understanding of molecu- 
lar structure, a knowledge of which may at any time prove of utmost 
interest to all. 

3£ica. — Prof. G. Tschermak, who, as is well known, has made a most 
valuable investigation upon micas, the results of which proved that all 
micas are mouocliuic in form and that they possess variable optical 
properties which necessitated a redivision and to a certain extent a new 
nomenclature, has now, with the aid of Sepocz, extended his examina- 
tion to the brittle micas of the clintonite group. These he finds also to 
be monoclinic, and possessed of optical properties that make it possible 
to systematize them in the same way as the elastic micas. Thus our 
knowledge of a large number of minerals which before were very imper- 
fectly understood has been much improved. 

ARTIFICIAL MINERALS. 

The synthetic methods of study have always found especial favor in 
France. The imjietus given by the men who have so distinguished 
themselves in this way has in the past year brought forward a number 
of new studies, almost all of them French. 

Daubree's new book upon experimental geology contains an account 
of all his previous experiments, and noticeable are the methods that he 
has used to make sublimed minerals. The book is very interesting to 
read, though its chief merit is the bringing together in condensed and 
accessible form all the distributed writings of the author upon these 
subjects. 

Fouque, who some time since succeeded in reproducing the feldspars 
by the simple process of allowing fused mixtures to slowly cool, has by 
the same process made leucite, nephelin, and a variety of rocks that 
ate comi)osed of minerals arranged in the same way, and scarcely dis- 
tinguishable from volcanic products. These results both have a geolog- 
ical interest, and are noticed in that section. 

Fouque and Levy performed the very pretty experiment of fusing 
a mixture of scapolite and hornblende, and obtained by slow cooling 
a mixture of labradorite and i^yroxene. One recalls the old experiment 
of ]Mitscherlich, who fifty years ago fused hornblende and obtained py- 
roxene. One of the very interesting experiments of Fouque and Levy 
recently performed was that by which they produced feldspars of vari- 
ous degrees of acidity, in which lead, baryta, or strontia were made to 
take the place of the bases ordinarily found in them. 

Velain has examined microscopically the fused ashes of grasses and 
other i)lants, and found in them tridymite, anorthite, wollastonite, and 
augite. Professor Maskelyn has described an artificial diopside rock 
formed in a Bessemer steel converter. Liebetheuite, the copper phos- 



MINERALOGY. 311 

phate, has been found to be very easily made by Friedel and Sarasin. 
Scorodite, the iron arsenate, has been made by Verncuil and Bouvjieois. 
Hautefeuille has made leucite, also an iron leucite, that is one which 
contains iron sesqnioxide instead of the usual alumina. IMeuiiier has 
made enstatite, spinel, and corundum. This does not cover the whole 
list, but it is sufficient to show the energy with which the synthetic 
method is being pursued in France. 

Some very interesting experiments have been tried in the way of pro- 
ducing artificially some of the physical features of minerals. Calcite 
has been noticed to be usually in the condition of polysynthetic twius 
when in ordinary limestoues, and it has been found that this twinned 
structure can be induced in a simple crystal by pressing it in certain 
directions. Baumhauer has shown how to make a perfect artificial twin 
yet more simply. He takes his jackkuife and presses its edge perpen- 
dicularly into the pole edge of a rhomb near its apex. The jjarts dis- 
placed by the jackkuife then assume a position with reference to the 
undisturbed parts as would a rhombohedron twinned with the next 
more obtuse rhombohedral plane as twiuning plane. One can thus easily 
get a symmetrically formed twin with its re-entrant angle exactly'" like 
the calculated angle of the twin. This is a beautiful little experiment 
that any one can try in a moment for himself, but to understand its full 
import and bearing is a deep problem. 

Arcliceological Mineralogy. — Under the title of "N'ephrite and Jadeite," 
Prof. Heinrich Fischer has issued a volume which is the second that he 
has devoted to a description of the results of his studies upon these and 
other minerals, which in prehistoric times were cut into ornaments, 
amulets, stoue axes, &c. He has thus in a systematic manner uitro- 
duced the study of mineralogy into arch apology. With the aid of the 
microscope and all available scientific resources, he has endeavored l<i 
find the nature of the stones most prized by the ancients. His long- 
continued studies show him that for an insufficiently understood reason, 
they had a decided preference for green stones, which they brought 
from most distant lands. The stones mostly obtained and modelled 
were: green limestones, apatite, green quartz and serpentine, mica- 
schist, chlorite schists, amazon stone (green feldspar), idocrase epidote, 
hornblende, and i^yroxyne ; and i)articularly in Asia and New Zealand, 
the very tough and hard nephrite and jadeite. It will never cease to 
be a wonder how the ancients so beautifully cut and polished these hard 
stones with their poor contrivances, and the archa?ologists will be thank- 
ful to this eminent mineralogist who has so carefully determined the 
mineral nature of so many of their objects of interest, and systematized 
a great mass of their previously uninteresting material. 

Other extensive worlcs. — The fourteenth communication of Mr. W. G. 
Hankel on the electric properties of minerals has already appeared. 
He has demonstrated that all minerals possess poles and electric jirop- 
erties of one kind or another, and that the distribution of the electricity 



812 MINERALOGY. 

over the crystals is variable. He lias not been able to deduce from his 
studies any very complete system, and the results are therefore rather 
wearisome in their details. 

The optical properties of isomorphous mixtures have been studied by 
Wyrouboif, and Mr. C. Dolter has digested all the analyses of the min- 
erals of the pyroxene family, and also studied thei r physical characters. 
As a result he has given a classification of the varieties of this mineral, 
■which contains some improvements. 

Mr. E. Mallard has issued the first volume of his treatise on geomet- 
rical and physical crystallography, accompanied by an atlas of nine 
plates. The completed work is to cover the field of mineralogy, and is 
of much importance, since no very extensive general treatise on miner- 
alogy has api^eared in France since the time of Hauy. 

Prof. J. Eeinhard Blum, in his old age, has added a fourth supple- 
ment to his work upon pseudomorphs. The better part of his life may 
be said to have been devoted to this study. His work has become one 
of the classics of mineralogy, and has had much influeuce in geology. 
He evidently intends that so long as he lives his work shall be kept 
abreast of the times. If he is not longer able to take part in the active 
hard work that is being devoted to this subject, his new supi^lement 
shows that nothing of importance escapes his attention or overtasks his 
memory. 



BOTANY. 



By Prof. William G. Farlow. 



PEOGRESS IN 1879. 

During tlie year 1879 publications on botany have been numerous in 
all departments of the science, especially on the subjects of ciypto- 
gamic botany and vegetable physiology, but the number of works of large 
extent and those which the Germans would describe as epoch-making 
is comparatively small. The activity of the botanical world during the 
year is shown, however, by the large numbers of papers^contuining either 
the results of observations on detailed subjects in vegetable aitatomy 
and morphology, or in descriptions of new species, both of pha^nogams 
and cry]>t()gams. The proportion of valuable papers relating to the 
effects of light on plants, to the physiological relations of the different 
coloring matters, and to the action of the different forms of ferment is 
also to be noticed. 

GENERAL. 

The Chronological History of Plants, or man's record of his own ex- 
istence, illustrated through their names, uses, and companionshii), is a 
quarto of over 1200 pages by the late Charles Pickering, It is an 
immense collection of scatteretl facts about different common and culti- 
vated i)lants, and the press- work is extraordinarily well donel. Graifs 
Botanical Text-Boole, Part I, Structural Botany, now appears as one of 
a series of three volumes, of which the second and third volumes are 
to be devoted respectively to i)hysiologicaI botany and cryptogamic 
botany. The part which has already appeared is modeled on the author's 
well-known Structural and Systematic Botany, but with much additional 
matter. The first part of Luerssen's Handbuch der Systematischen Bo- 
taniJc, intended especially for the use of medical students and ai)Othe- 
caries, is devoted to cryi)togams, and both text and plates are excellent. 
The Handbuch der BotaniJc, by Scheuk, which forms a part of the Ency- 
clo])wdie der Naturwissenscha/ten appeared in part in 1879, and contained 
articles by Hermann Miiller on the Relations between Flowers and their 
Crossing by means of Insects, and by Drude on Insectivorous Plants. 

313 



314 BOTANY. 

VEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIC LOGY. 

An importaut paper by Pringsheim on tlie Action of Light and the 
Function of Chlorophyl was communicated to the Berlin Academy in 
July of this year. The paper is in the nature of a somewhat lengthy 
preliminary communication which the writer intends to give in full with 
illustrations in his Jahrbiicher. Pringsheim reports the discovery of a 
substance, to which he gives the name of HypocUorin or Rypochromyl, 
which is obtained from chlorophyl-bearing tissues by allowing them to 
remain in dilute hydrochloric acid for several hours. The Hypochlorin 
then appears in the form of small, viscid drops or masses of semi-fuid 
consistency, which ultimately are transformed into long, reddish-brown, 
indistinctly crystalline needles. According to Pringsheim, he has proved 
that chlorophyl, by its power of regulating plant-respiraiion in light by 
means of its absorption of the most active chemical rays, depresses the 
amount of respiration in green plants exposed to the light below the 
amount of assimilation, and so makes possible the accumulation of car- 
bon-products and the persistence of the plant in the light. Hoppe-Seyler 
has discovered a substance to which he gives the name of Chlorophyllan, 
which has the form of dark green, velvety-looking plates, which are 
curved and often united in rosettes. Gautier, in the Comptes Rendus, 
regards the chlorophyllan of Hoppe-Seyler as crystallized chlorophyl 
itself, and he claims for himself the priority of its discovery. The Helio- 
troiric Fhenomena of Plants is the title of a monograph by Wiesner, first 
presented to the Vienna Academy in 1878, but not generally made public 
until the present year. 

The Annales des Sciences contain an article by Bonnier on nectaries, 
and a copiously illustrated paper by Yesque, Sur le Sac Uitibryonnaire, 
in which he supports the views of Warming as to the signification of the 
embryo-sac, rather than the views of Strasburger. L. Koch, in his mono- 
graph of the Development of the Crassulacew, gives a large number of 
finely drawn plates of the microscopic structure of species of that order. 
The mode of fertilization in Zostera marina has been studied by Engler, 
who criticises unfavorably the views on the subject formerly held by 
Hofmeister. 

The American ]S"aturalist contains a number of short papers on fertil- 
ization, amoug which may be mentioned: Certain Contrivances for Cross- 
fertilization in Floivers, by Prof. J. E. Todd ; On tlie Fertilization of several 
species of Lohclia^ by William Trelease ; The Fertilization of our native 
species of Clitoria and Centrosema, also by Trelease j and On the Fertili- 
zation of Yucca, by Thomas Meehan, a paper read before the Am. Ass. 
for the Advanc. Science. In the Botanical Gazette are papers on Tri- 
morphism in Lithospermum canescens, by E. F. Smith, and on Sexual differ- 
entiation in Fpiga'a repens, by L. F. Ward, and a note on the movement 
of the stamens of Sahbatia angularis, by the same author. In the Am. 
Journ. Science Prof. W. J. Beal describes his Experiments in Cross-breed- 



BOTANY. 315 

ing plants of the same variety, his conclusion being that the crossing is 
highly favorable. 

DISEASES OF PLANTS. 

The cofifee-leaf disease produced by Hcmileia rastatrix is described 
and illustrated in an article by 1*. Abbay in the Journ. Linn. Soc. In 
FiuKji l*omicoli, Von Thueinen gives a summary of the fungi which at- 
tack the common fruit trees. A disease attacking seedling beech plants; 
supposed to be caused by Pliytophthora Fagi, and the distortions of spru- 
ces produced by Xectrla cucurh'UuIa are described by Hartig in the Forst- 
wiss. Ceutralblatt. lieinke and Berihold describe the manner in 
which potatoes are decomposed by the action of fungi in the proceedings 
of the botanical laboratory in Gottingen, and Thonjas describes a large 
number of galls produced in plants by ditt'ereut insects, in the Zeitschrift 
tiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften. A general treatise on Diseases 
of cultivated plants produced by Fungi by Winter has appeared from 
the press of Scholze, in Leipsic. The appearance in France of the onion 
smut, Urocystis Cepulw, well known in some i^arts of the United States, 
has been recorded by Cornu, and the same botanist i^ublished several 
communications on the disease of the vine known as authracose, or, as it 
is frequently called, anthrachnose. Piauchon and Cornu do not agree 
with regard to the fungus producing the disease in question, the former 
thinking the fungus to be Sphaceloma ampelimim De Bary, and the 
latter, Phoma uvicola Berk, and Curt. Under the title of Ampelottiiccti 
Italici, Spegazzini has continued his account of the fungi attacking 
grapes in the Rivista della viticultura. In Die Poclen des Weinstockes 
Ton Thuemen gives his observations on Gleosporium ampelophagum, a 
fungus which attacks grapes. 

THALLOPHYTES. 

Alga;. — Of papers relating to the algiP- of the United States but 
little can be said. The Bull. Torrey Club contains some new fresh-water 
species by Wolle, and the Am. Naturalist contains a preliminary report 
by Farlow on algai collected by Prof. A. S. Packard in the Great Salt 
Lake. Nor haye works on algne in foreign countries been as numerous 
as usual. The second part of Cohn's Kryptogamen Flora von Schlesieu 
contains the algie elaborated by Kirchner, and the Nuovo Giorn. Bot. 
Ital. contains a paper by Borzi on the Morplwlogy and Biology of the 
Phycochromacecv. Kjellman, in a short paper, illustrated by a chart, 
gives an account of the distribution of algJB by regions on the Skager- 
Rack. Prof. E. P. Wright has two illustrated papers in the Transac- 
tions of the Eoyal Irish Academy : On the cell structure of Griffithsia 
setacea and on the development of its antheridia and tetrasporcs, and On 
the so-called Siphons and on the development of the tetraspores in Poly- 
siphonia. The Trans. Linn. Soc. contains an account, by D. D. Cunning- 
ham, of a curious new genus, the single species of which, Mycoidea 



316 BOTANY. 

parasitica, grows as a parasite on the leaves of the tea plant, the mango, 
and other plants. Zopf, in a small pamphlet, has described and figured 
the stages of development of Crenothrix polyspora, a species which 
causes pollution of the water at Berlin and other places. 

The cause of the motion of Oscillaricc and Diatoms has been studied 
by T. W. Eugelmann, who, in an article in the Botanische Zeitung, 
states that it is owing to the presence and contraction of a thin external 
layer of protoj^lasm. Stahl found that when desmids are exposed to 
the light they undergo certain peculiar motions, viz, their long diame- 
ters are in the direction of the light, the distal end of the cells being 
attached to the substratum, and at more or less regular periods the 
cells make a half revolution, so that what was the distal end becomes 
the forward end. Stahl also has a paper in the Botanische Zeitung, in 
which he shows that the genus Vaucheria has a resting condition which 
is identical with the so-called species of Gongrosira. Reinke, in Nova 
Acta Leop. Carol., has an illustrated paper on the Cutleriacece of the Gulr 
of Naples, in which he claims to have seen the union of the antherozoids 
and oogouia. In tlie proceedings of the Niederrhein. Gesellsch. Schuiitz 
has papers on the Structure of the Cells in tSiphonocladiecc and on the 
Formation of the Fruit in the Squamariece. 

Lichens. — In the department of lichenography very little was pub- 
lished in the United States in the present year, the only notable work 
being the list of lichens contributed by Professor Tuckerman to the 
report of Professor Rothrock, which has already been mentioned. In 
Europe, however, a number of descriptive pai^ers has been published. 
In the Journal Liuu. Soc. is an account, by Prof. T. M. Fries, of the lich- 
ens collected during the English Polar Expedition, 1875-'76, in which, in 
referring to the list of lichens collected by the Hayes Arctic Expedition 
and published in the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Philadelphia, he doubts 
the accuracy of the determinations in the case of some of the species 
there mentioned. The Jour. Liun. Soc. also has a paper by Crombie on 
Australian lichens, and the same writer has a notice of new British 
lichens in GreviUea. Leighton's Lichen-Flora of Great Britain has this 
year passed to a third edition. Additions to the lichen-flora of Europe 
have appeared in Flora and Hedwigia from Arnold and Nylander. The 
last-named writer has also a curious note in Flora entitled Circa Lichenes 
vitricolas Notula. In Cohn's Kryptogamen Flora von Schlesien, the 
second part of which appeared in 1879, the descriptive part relating to 
lichens was worked up by B. Stein. Inasmuch as Stein himself is a dis- 
ciple of Korber, and not a follower of Schwendener, the general intro- 
duction on the nature of lichens was intrusted to Schroeter, who is a 
Sch wen denerite. 

During the year the discussion as to the nature of lichens has been 
carried on in the different journals, epecially in Flora and Grevillea, and 
the articles have mostly been written by botanists opposed to the Schwen- 
dener theory. In Grevillea is a iDaper by Cooke and in the Eevue Mycol- 



BOTANY. 317 

ogiqiie one by Roumeguere, both strongly against the parasitical nature 
of the lichens. In Grevillea, Cronibie, while in general discrediting 
Schwendener's views, is unwilling to accept IMinks's theory with regard 
to microgonidia, which he believes to be merely small i)articles having 
a Brownian motion, as does also Nylander. The most extended work 
on the nature of lichens published this year is an illustrated octavo of 
about 250 pages by Minks, entitled Bas Microgonidium, in which his 
well-known views are given in great detail. In the Am. Jour, of Science 
Professor Tuckermau, in discussing the question of the gonidiaot lichens, 
states thathehasobservedmicrogonidium-like masses in Parmelia tlllacea 
Y.Jidvicans, and in the Bibliotheque Universelle Prof. J. Midler states 
that he has seen microgonidia in two other si)ecies of FarmeUa. 

Finigi. — As usual an immense number of new species of fungi has 
been described during the year, principally in a large number of small 
papers scattered through the different journals. In addition to the 
journals, such as Grevillea, Hedwigia, and Michelia, devoted exclusively 
to cryptogams, there api^eared this year a new journal. Revue Mycolo- 
gique, devoted exclusively to fungi. It is a large octavo, and is pub- 
lislied quarterly under the editorship of M. Casimir Eoumeguere of Tou- 
louse. 

In the United States several important papers appeared. The thirty- 
first annual report of the New York State ]\Iuseum of Natural History 
contains the report of the botanist, Mr. C. H. Peck, in which is em- 
bodied a large amount of mycological matter, including an arrangement 
of the Myxomycetes of New York according to Rostafinski's classification. 
A second paper, read before the Albany Institute by Mr. Peck, is on the 
United States Species of Lycoperdon. Besides these papers a number of 
new species of American fungi have been described in the Botanical 
Gazette by Peck, in Grevillea by Cooke and Ellis, and by Von Thuemen 
in theBuU. Torrey Club and Revue Mycologique. A Californiau species, 
Jlelvella Californica, is described and figured by W. Philips in the 
Trans. Linn. Soc. In the Am. Quart. Micros. Journ. is a paper by F. B. 
Hines, Observations on several forms of Sap roleg niece. Several works of 
importance have appeared in Europe. The Mycographia of Cooke has 
been continued, and the first volume brought to completion. Berkeley 
and Broome have described new species from Queensland in the Trans. 
Linn. Soc. The fourth part of Karsten's Mycologia Fcnnica has appeared, 
including the Ilypodermii, Fkycomycetes, and Myxomycetes, also the Bis- 
comyeetes of Gillet's Champignons de la France. Oudemans has i)ub- 
lished several i^apers on fungi of the Netherlands in the Archives Neer- 
landaises, and for Scotland one must note the Mycologia Scottica of 
J. Stevenson. The Revue Mycologique contains a number of papers by 
Roumeguere relating to fungi new to France, as well as some entirely 
new species as Eupinia Pyrenaica. Hedwigia contains a number of 
notices of Swiss fungi, by Winter, especially of fungi of the order Ure- 
dineo). Besides papers already enumerated, Cooke has descriptions of 



318 BOTANY, 

British fungi and a paper on a new genus, Peniophora, in Grevillea. The 
articles by Von Tbuemeu are numerous and scattered in several jour- 
nals, and include descriptions of species from Egypt, Siberia, Germany, 
and other countries. 

The development ofAcidium abietimim has been very carefully studied 
by De Bary, who connects it with stylosporic and final forms found on 
alpine species of Rhododendron. A nearly related form is found in Fin- 
land, on Ledum, according to Woronin. In a paper on the Development 
of some Uredinece in the Beitriige zur Biologic, Schroeter gives an ac- 
count of the development of a Uredo on Ledum, and a detailed account of 
a number of different Fuccinke. Cornu has published a number of scat- 
tered notes in the Bull. Soc. France, of which may be mentioned in this 
connection some BemarJcs on Uredinece, especially the genus Eoestelia. 

HIGHER CRYPTOGtAMS AND MUSCINEJE. 

In this country the principal work published during the year has been 
the continuation of Eaton's Ferns of North America. The same writer 
also published in the Bull. Torr. Club a paper on New and little-hioicn 
Ferns of the United States, the species mentioned being principally from 
Florida. A second illustrated work is Fern Etchings, by John William- 
sou, which contains illustrations of 08 ferns of the United States. Baker 
has described, in the Loudon Journal of Botany, ferns from Borneo, the 
Fiji Islands, and the Sulu Archipelago. 

In mosses we have a paper by Lesquereux and James in the Proc. 
Am. Acad, of Arts and Sciences, entitled Descriptions of some neiv species 
of North American Mosses, with a note by W. P. Schimper, and three 
papers by C. F. Austin, onejon Some Neio Musci, in the Botanical Gazette, 
and Bryological Notes and Notes on Hepaticologg, in the Bull. Torr. Club. 
In the last article, besides si)ecies of the United States, a number of 
species were described from the Sandwich Islands. Of foreign writings 
on mosses and hepatics, we may mention papers by Lindbergon northern 
liverworts and mosses, Massalongo's Hepaticologia Veneta in the pro- 
ceedings of the Soc. Yeneto-Trentina, and Hampe's Enumeration of some 
Brazilian Mosses. 

Of developmental papers and those concerned with minute anatomy 
in this department of botany the Untersuchungen iiber Lehermoose, by 
Leitgeb, deserve especial notice. Of the work just named, parts four 
and five appeared in 1879, and treated of the Eiccew and Anthoceratece. 
The same writer also published a paper on the development of ferns in 
the proceedings of the Vienna Academy of Sciences. The sexual gen- 
eration of the Marrattiew was described and fully illustrated by Jonk- 
mann in a paraj^hlet published at Utrecht. Bauke, in a study of the 
prothalli of Platycerium grande, came to the conclusion that the bilateral 
form of the prothalli was not owing to any inherent property, but to the 
action of gravity. In a short i)aper in Flora, Bauke also has some re- 



BOTANY. 



319 



marks ou the protballus of Sahnnia natans. Goebel, in the Botanische 
Zeitung, mentions a peculiar formation of slioots on leaves of I.soetes. 

In Chaniccw we have to notice the appearance of Characecc Aniericame 
in two fasciculi by Dr. T. F. Allen, including Chara (jymnopus var. ele- 
gans, A. Br. and C. crinita var. americana, of which des(;riptions and 
colored plates are given. The proceedings of the Boston Society of 
Natural History contain a paper by B. D. Halsted on the Classification 
and Description of the American Species of Characecc. The systematic 
position of the Characew w^as discussed by S. H. Vines in a paper in the 
Journal of Botany entitled The Pro-embryo of Chara, and he considers 
that the order forms an independent group intermediate between the 
Carposporecc and the Muscinew. 

PH^NOGAMS. 

Among the descriptive works on North American plants may be men, 
tioned Reports upon the Botanical Collections made in portions of JSfevada, 
Colorado, JSFew Mexico, and Arizona during the years 1871-'75, by J. T. 
Eothrock. The work forms a part of the reports on the geological sur- 
veys west of the 100th meridian made under the charge of Lieut. G. M. 
Wheeler, and is a large quarto, with finely executed i^lates by Sprague. 
In the elaboration of special orders and genera, Professor Eothrock was 
assisted by the following gentlemen: S. Watson, George Engelmaun, 
T. C. Porter, M. S. Bebb, William Boott, George Vasey, D. C. Eaton, 
T. P. James, and Edward Tuckermann. The descrii^tive i)ortion of the 
work is preceded by notes on the general character of the^vegetation of 
Colorado and New Mexico and notes on the economical properties of a 
number of species. The botanical contributions of Prof. A. Gray consist 
of two i)apers i^ublished in the Proceedings of the American Academy 
of Arts and Sciences; Characters of some new species of Composite in the 
Mexican collection made by 0. C. Parry and Edward Palmer, chiefly in 
the Province of San Luis Potosi in 1878 ; and Some new Xorth American 
genera, species, &c. The new genera are Sul'sdorfia, from the Columbia 
Eiver, and Rowellia, from Oregon. In the same Proceedings are two 
pai)ers by Mr. Sereno Watson : Revision of the North American Liliacecc 
and Description of some Neto Species of North American Plants. In the 
last-named paper, which includes the new genus Hollistcria, the species 
described are princii)ally from the west coast and from Florida, the 
greater part having been collected by Dr. E. Palmer. Besides the 
pajjers above named, there has appeared a number of shorter papers 
and notes in the different journals, among which may be enumerated 
Notes on Baptisia, by W. M. Canby, in the Botanical Gazette ; Notes on 
Yitis, by Dr. George Engelmann, and Ballast Plants in Neic YorJc City, by 
Addison Brown, in the Bulletin of the Torrey Club; Colorado Plants, 
by I. C. Martindale, in the American Naturalist ; and Catalogue of the 
Phwnogamous and vascular Cryptogamons Plants collected in Dakota and 



320 BOTANY. 

3fontana, by Prof. J. W. Chickering, in the Balletin TJ. S. Geol. and Geog. 
Survej". The American Jonrnal of Science contains a paper by Prof. C. 
S. Sargent on the Forests of Central Nevada, icith some remarlcs on those of 
the adjacent regions, in which the comparative distribution of trees and 
shrubs in the Eocky Mountain, the Nevada, and the Sierra Nevada 
regions is discussed, and in the same journal is a paper by Professor 
Gray on the Pertinacity and Predominance of Weeds, in which he comes 
to the conclusion that " self-fertilization is neither the cause, nor a j)er- 
ceptible cause, of the jirepotency of the European plants which are weeds 
in, North America." In addition to the papers above enumerated are 
two others by foreign writers, which treat of North American plants ; 
one by A. W. Bennett, on PolygaUc Americana', in the Journal of Botany, 
and one on the Flora of the Saint Croix arid Virgin Islands, published in 
the Bulletin IJ. S. National Museum, by Baron H. P. A. Eggers. 

Of the very numerous papers on local European floras nothing need 
be said at present. The Conspectus Florce Euroixcxe, by Nyman, of 
which the tirst fasciculus was announced in 1878, has been continued, 
and has for its useful object the collation of the floras of the different 
European countries. Of foreign works should be mentioned the second 
volume of Hooker's Flora of British India and the continuation of 
Boissier's Flora OrientaUs. One of the most sumptuous works which 
appeared during the year was Aroidew Maxim ilianw, by Schott and 
Peyritsch, containing magnificent colored folio plates of the Aroids col- 
lected during the journey of the Emperor Maximilian I to Brazil. The 
Archives du Museum contain monographs of the genera Lignstrum and 
Syringa, by Decaisne, and in the Proc. Bot. Soc. of Edinburgh is a 
monograph by Bennett of the genus HalophiJa, which enters into the 
microscopic structure of the species. In an elaborate paper, entitled 
Methodili der Speciesheschreihung und Rulms, the writer. Dr. Otto Kuntze, 
discusses the variability of the species of that genus, and proposes a new 
method of nomenclature by means of symbols, a i^roposition which has met 
with very little favor from systematic botanists. Beccari, in a work issued 
in parts under the title of Malesia, has published the results of his travels 
in the Malayan Archipelago, and the same author in the Zeitschrift 
Oesterr. Yereins describes a gigantic aroid, AmorphophaUus Titanum, 
from Sumatra. In this connection reference should be made to Hooker 
and Ball's Marocco and the Great Atlas, which, although not a purely 
botanical work, treats largely of the plants of that country. The Flora 
Brasiliensis has been continued, and in 1879 there appeared the Gram- 
inew, by Doll; Loheliacccc, by Kanitz; Plumhaginece and Plantaginew, by 
Schmidt. An important economical as well as botanical contribution is 
Todaro's Account of the Cultivation of Cotton in Italy, followed by a 
monograph on the genus Gossypium, a work published at Eome and 
consisting of about three hundred pages of text with twelve folio plates. 



BOTANY. 321 



rROGKESS IN 1880. 



GENERAL. 



One of tbe important works published dnrino- the year is La Phjfogra- 
iMe or the art of describing phints considered from dilierent points of 
view, by A. Be Candolle. Besides tlie instructive considerations on 
nomenclature and descriptions, there is given a list of principal herbaria 
and the authentic collections which they contain. We must also mention 
the Index perfectus ad Caroli TAnnaei species riaiiiaruin, nempe earum 
primam editionem, by Baron F. von Mueller. A valuable newjournal 
has appeared during the year, the Botanisches (76;>t/m/?^?«/^, edited by Dr. 
Oscar Uhlworm, assisted by a number of specialists. It is issued weekly 
by Tlieodor Fischer, Cassef, and luis for its object the i)resentation of 
short reviews and notices of botanical works and society conimunici- 
tions as soon as possible after their publication. The journal also in- 
cludes a certain number of original communications. The number of 
botanical text-books which hus appeared during the year is rather large. 
We would mention first, Botany for HUjh Schools and Colleges, by Prof. 
C. E. Bessey, which forms om^ of the American Sciem^e Series issued by 
Henry Holt & Co. The book covers all the departments of botany, and 
is copiously illustrated. An Historical Sketch of the Science of Botany 
in North America from 1840-1858, by Frederick Brendel, is finished in 
the xVmerican Naturalist for 1880. Of the numerous European text- 
books mention should be made of N. J. C. Miiller's Ilandbnch derBofaull; 
in two volumes; Eehdve's ie/ir^i/c/i der allgemeinen Botanil- ; Behrens's 
Method Lelirhu eh der allgem. Botanil; and Warming's Pen aJmindelige 
Botanih. 

VEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 

The structure of sieve-cells has been treated in two papers by Janc- 
zewski, and by Wilhelm. The distribution of stomata on the subterran- 
ean parts of plants has been studied by Ilohnfeldt, and the Am. Natural- 
ist contains a paper by W. K. Higby, on the Alioroscopio Crystals con- 
tained in. Plants. On the subject of morphology of special plants, we 
may mention A. F. W. Schimper's The Vegetative Organs of Prosopanche. 
The Beitrage zur Biologic contains a paper by Klein, on the structure 
of Pingidcnla alpina, an insectivorous plant. In the Proc. Eoyal Soc. 
is a paper by Vines, on the Chemical Com2)osition of Aleurone-grains. 
The aleurone grains in Pmmia are completely soluble in water; in some 
other plants they are not. Aleurone grains are always surrounded by 
an insoluble membrane wlych contributes to the formation of the net- 
work which remains after the soluble parts have been removed. In a 
paper on the Origin of Starch- grains, by Schimper, the writer expresses 
views contrary to those formerly advanced by Naegeli, and he describes 
S. ?dis.';;i 21 



322 BOTANY. 

bodies to which the name of starkebilduer' is given, from which starch 
may be formed as well as from chlorophyl grains. 

The germination of Welwitsehia has been observed by Bower. Dr. 
Engelmann, in the Trans. Saint Louis Academy, has some notes on the 
Germination of Acorns, and in the Bot. Gazette, on the Vitality of the 
seeds of serotinous cones. Prof. Sargent also discusses in the Gazette the 
Vitality of the Seeds of Pinus contorta. The Am. Naturalist contains 
papers by Professor Bessey, on the supposed JDimorpMsni of Lithosjjer- 
mum lonrjiforum, and by Professor Todd ou the Flowering of Saxifraga 
tomentosa. Meehan, in the Proc. Am. Acad, of Philadelphia, calls atten- 
tion to the Disarticulacing branches in Ampelopsis. 

Two papers by Goibel should be mentioned : one oi) the Morphology 
of the Leaf and the other on Dorsiventral Growth, of which a large 
number of instances are given. The Arbeiten des Botanischen lusti- 
tuts, Wiirzburg, contains a number of important papers on physiology : 
Sachs ou Material and Form of Plant Organs ; Elfviug on Some Hori- 
zontally growing Ehizomata ; Wortmann on the Relations of the Intra- 
molecidar to Normal Respiration in Plants ; and by Francis Darwin ou 
the Growth of negative heliotropic Roots in Light and in Darkness. The 
Influence of the Birection and Strength of the Illumination on some Forms 
of Motion in Plants, is the title of a paper by Stahl, in the Bot. Zeitung. 
Species of Mesocarpus according to Stahl are especially instructive, as 
in this genus the band of chlorophyl rotates so that by strong illumina- 
tion it lies in the direction of the light ; by weak illumination at right 
angles to it. Stahl also describes the change of position of chlorophyl 
grains in cells depending on variations in the illumination. Schweu- 
dener has studied the subject of several-celled scheitels, and thinks that 
although such scheitels exist, they are always composed of fewer cells 
than has been generally believed, and in the case of Marratia, he differs 
with Russow in only recognizing the existence of four cells. 

BACTERIA. 

It is only possible to enumerate in this connection comparatively 
few works having a botanical bearing, the majority of the papers on 
bacteria bei ag more directly concerned with pathological or chemical 
questions. The Beitrage zur Biologic contains a paper by Neelsen, 
called Studies on Blue Millt, in which the writer gi\'e3 the results of 
careful investigations ou the cause of the blue color which is some- 
times found in milk. He examined milk which had become blue spon- 
taneously, and was able to produce the color in healthy milk by a pro- 
cess of inoculation, and ascertain by experiment the conditions wliich 
favored or retarded the production of the blue color. Of external 
conditions favoring the i)roduction of blue milk the light has no in- 
fluence, and the temperature within moderate limits has only a slight 
influence. On the other hand, the presence of free oxygen and atmos- 



BOTANY. 323 

plieric inoisture is esseDtial for its production. The coloring matter of 
the bhie milk is not combined with the bacteria which may be present, 
but is dissolved in the serum of the milk. A microscopic examination 
shows ^he presence of small rod-like bodies, which ultimately form 
torula-like chains. According to l^eelsen, the cells of the chain, which 
he calls gonidia, remain dormant unless placed m fresh milk, in which 
case they germinate. Tommasi-Crudelli and Klebs have studied the 
origin of malarial fever, and conclude that malarial affections which they 
induced experimentally were produced by organisms which were in the 
ground in malarial districts before the outbreak of the fever, and 
whose transmission in the air could be directly observed under definite 
conditions of dampness and moisture. The organism which greatly 
resembles Bacillus suhtilis has been named B. malariw. Hansen claims 
the priority of having discovered the cause of leprosy to be an organ- 
ism named Bacillus leprcc. 

One of the most important papers published during year is that of 
Dr. Hans Buchner, On the experimental production of the Contagium of 
Splenic Fever from Bacillits sihi'lis, with observations on the introduction 
of splenic fever through the organs of respiration. As is well known, 
Bacillus subtilis, a comn on ^dcterial form found in decoctions of hay, 
can scarcely be distinguisbed morpliologically from Bacillus anthracis, 
which is supposed to produce splenic fever in different animals. Buch- 
ner undertook to ascertain whetlier, by varying the conditions of growth, 
either of these two species might not be transformed into the other; 
that is, B. anthracis miglit not become harmless when inoculated and 
B. s7iMilis might not produce splenic fever. He found by cultivation of 
B. anthracis in different solutions, as a solution of Liebig's extract of 
' meat, that it gradually lost its power of producing splenic fever when 
inoculated, and at the end oi what he calls 1,500 generations of the 
fungus he saw no difference, pathologically speaking, between the two 
species in question. On the other hand, Bcillus subtilis, which had for 
a certain length of time been cultivated in defibrinated blood, when in- 
jected into different animals produced s\ mptoms of splenic fever. The 
comparative distribution of bacteria in the air has been studied by Mi- 
quel, who finds that they are much more nuiucrous in summer t'lau in 
winter, and he states further that an increase of the amount of bacteria 
is followed in a few days by an increase in the number of deaths from 
contagious and epidemic diseases. The com-nunications of Pasteur on 
the cholera of fowls, and the etiology of splenic fever, and the means of 
prophylaxis, belong rather to the departmeiit of pathology than botany. 
A paper on the Cause of Blight in Pear Trees was read by Prof. T. J. Bur- 
rell before the Am. Assoc. Adv. of Science, in which he attril)uted the 
disease to the presence of a minute bacterial tbrm. To a similar cause 
it is also probable that the so-called yellows in peaches is to be attrib- 
uted. Dr. George Sternberg, U. S. A., has issued a translation of Mag- 
nin's Les Bacteries, to which he has added original notes and plates. 



dZ4: BOTANY. 

DISEASES OF PLANTS. 

During the year numerous notices have appeared in regard to the 
spread of tlie American vine mildew, Peronospora viticola, to the vine- 
yards of Europe, where it is said to be causing great harm, especially in 
Italy. The fungus has been found in several parts of France, Switzer- 
land, Germany as far east as Austria, and in Italy. Eathay has de- 
scribed a deformity of cherry trees produced by Exoascus Wiesneri. 
Hartig has published a number of papers on injurious fungi in a peri- 
odical called JJntersuchungen aus dem Forsthotanisclien Tnsfitut, the princi- 
l)al of which are JioselUnia qucrcina, which attacks the roots of oaks ; 
Phytophthora Fagi, which attacks seedling beeches ; Peziza WiUkommii, 
which causes a distortion of the larch ; and J^ectria Cucurhitula, which 
attacks the bark of spruces. The coffee-leaf disease, Hemileia vastatrix, 
has been studied by D. Morris, and a i)reliminary report on the same 
subject has been made by H. M. Ward, who was sent by the British 
Government to Ceylon to investigate the subject. Die Blasenrost Pilze 
der Conifereii, a monograph of the genus Peridermimn, by Von Thiimen, 
contains an account of the aecidial forms attacking Coni/erw, and 
includes a number of species found in the United States. 

THALLOPHYTES. 

Algce. — Kew American species of algte have been described in the 
Bull. Torrey club by Wolle. In the first annual Kep't. Mass. State Board 
of Health, Charity, and Lunacy is a paper by W. G. Farlow on Some Im- 
piirities of Brm]dng-^Yater, Mith two plates, illustrating the common 
si>ecies which produce the disagreeable odor sometimes found in the 
water sui)plies of Boston. 

The most important work on algfe which has appeared during the 
year is Florideernes Morpliologi by Agardh. This is a large quarto with 
33 colored plates, and was originally presented at the Swedish Royal 
Academy of Science in 1877, and bears the date of publication 1870, but 
was not received in this country until 1880. The work is in Swedish, 
and embodies the author's views with regard to the structure of the 
frond and fruit of the red-seaweeds. The text has been translated into 
a Latin form, and under the title of MorphoJogia Floridearum has been 
issued as an octavo with plates forming part iii of the third volume of 
the Species Genera et Ordines Algarnm. Areschoug, in the Bot. Kotiser, 
founds a new genus Oxyglossum on Laminaria japonicu, a species for- 
merly included in L. saceharina. Ivjellman, in Bot. Tidsk, gives an ac- 
count of Icelandic algtB, and remarks that the alga flora of Iceland more 
closely resembles that of IS^orthern Scandinavia than that of Spitzber- 
gen and Greenland. Kuntze, in Engier's Jahrbiicher, and also in Mature, 
gives some observations on the distribution of the gulf-weed, and ex- 
pres^^es doubts as to the existence of a genuine sargasso-sea, as de- 
scribed by Huniboldc ana others. He also gives a revision of the ge- 



BOTANY. 325 

uiis Sargassnm, iu which he very much reduces the uumber of accepted 
species of that genus. In the Journ. Linn. Soc. Dickie has some ^''otes 
on Algce from the Amazon and its tributaries. For Central Europe we 
have to mention the Gontributions to the Alga-flora of Wilrtemberg, by 
Kirchner. Woronin, in the Botanische Zeitung, describes a new Vau- 
cheria, V. JJeBaryana, and a curious algoid i)arasite, Chromophyton Eos- 
anoffii, found in shallow pools in Finland. 

In the Mittli. aus der Zoolo-. Station of Naplesis apaperby Berthold, 
Zur Kcnntniss der 8iphonecn iind Bangiaceen, in whicli he describes the fer- 
tilization in Bangia, and the same writer also describes the Sexual Re- 
production in Dasycladiis claraformis. Schmitz describes the formation 
of sporangia in the genus Ralimeda. In lledwigia P. Kichter gives his 
views on the transformations which the genius Gloeocystis undergoes. 
Borzi has discovered antherozoids in Hildcnbrandtia, which indicate its 
aftinities witli the Squamariew. Ambronn notices some Gases^of Bilater- 
ality in Florideae in the Bot. Zeitung. Grevillea contains an account by 
M. C. Coolie of Desmids found in Great Britain since the publication of 
, Ealfs's Desmidiacew. 

Lichens. — But very little has appeared in this department. Several 
short articles were published in Flora, among which were Addenda nova 
ad liclienographiam europeam ; Lichenes nonnulli insulw St. Thomw, by 
Nylander; the continuation of Arnold's papers on Tyrolese lichens and 
Lichenological Gontributions hy ,1. Milller. A monograph »f the Scandina- 
vian Arthonicc has been published by Almquist, and descriptions of spe- 
cies from Australia and the Argentine Republic have been published by 
Kremi)elhtiber. A paper was read by George Murray before the Linnean 
Society, in which he suggested that in the gonida of lichens we liave 
what might be called a chlorophyl-screen by means of which the liyphae 
are able to decompose carbonic acid. In Cohn's Beitrage zur Biologie 
is an interesting paperby Dr. Frank Schwarz, called Ghemisch-botanische 
Studien iiher die in den Flechten vorkommenden Flechtensaiiren, in whi(;h 
he not only discusses the difterent acids, as chrysophanic, lecanoric, 
erythrinic and evernic acids, in relation to their chemical composi- 
tion, but also from an histological study of the thalli of different lich- 
ens has attempted to ascertain exactly where the acids are found in the 
thallus. 

Fungi.— On fungi relating to the United States several papers have 
been published. In the Bull. Torrey club is a description of a new fun- 
gus, Simblum rubeseens, by W. R. Gerard, with two plates. This curious 
fungus belongs to the FhaUoidei, and at the end of the paper mentioned 
Gerard gives a list of the species of FhaUoidei found in the United States. 
The same writer has also two other papers in the Bulletin on Additions 
to the U. 8. FhaUoidei, and Gorrelation bettveen the Odor of the PhaUoids 
and their Relative Frequency. In the same journal is a paper by Peck on 
Polyporus volvatus and its varieties, in which he founds a new genus 
Gryptoporus on this species, and an article by J. B. Ellison a New Sphae- 



326 BOTANY. 

ria on Grapes, Sphaeria BidicelUi, which he regards as the ascigerous con- 
dition of Plioma uvicola B. and C. In the Bot Gazette are Notes on 
Fungi, by M. E. Banning, and North Americaii Sp^'.cies of Septoria, by Yon 
Thuemen ; a Catalogue of the FaciJiG Coast Fungi, by H. W. Harkness and 
J. P. Moore, including a large number of species, was read before the 
California Academy of Sciences and afterwards issued in an octavo form. 
Grevillea contains papers on California fungi, by Cooke and Harkness, 
and on New York fungi, by Cooke. 

The fungi of the herbarium of the late M'lle Libert have been the sub- 
ject of i)apers in Grevillea by Cooke, Reliquae Libertiance, and by liou- 
meguere and Spegazziui in the Eevue Mycologique, Fevisio Feliquice 
Lihertiance, and specimens have been distributed also by Yon Thiiemeu 
in Mycotheca Universalis. Cooke has a number of papers in Grevillea; 
Observations on Feziza; on Hymenochacte and its allies; descriptions of 
British and Indian fungi; and South African and Australian fungi by 
Kalchbrenner and Cooke. Hedwigia has a number of notices of Swiss 
fungi, especially Uredinew, by Winter, and new fungi from tbe Jura and 
the Yosges are described iu Grevillea by Quelet. Additions to the 
mycological flora of Finland have been made by Karsteu, and to the 
Italian flora by Saccardo, Spegazziui, and Passerini in Mitihelia, and 
the Atti Soc. Critt. Ital. The Eevue Mycologique contains descripti9ns 
of new fungi by Eoumeguere, Yon Thiimen, Passerini, Spegazziui, and 
others. « 

Developmental works on fungi have not been numerous. Hartig has 
connected Calyptospora Ooeppertiana Kiihn with ^Fcidium coluiunare A. 
and S. by means of experimental cultures. Eathay experimented on the 
connection between different species of Gymnosporangium and Roestelia, 
and differs from Oersted in believing that K. pcniciUata is the aecidial 
form of G. Juniperinum, and not of G. clavariaforme. The development 
of the spores iu Uroeystis colchiei has been observed by Prilleux, who 
has a paper on the subject iu the Annales des Sciences. In the Beit- 
rage Zur Biologic is a pai^er by Eidam, Beitrag Zur Kenntiiiss der Gym- 
noasceen, in Avhich he gives the development of Ctenomyces serratus and 
Gymnoascus vncinatus. Fischer, in the Botanische Zeitung, has shown 
that the enigmatical round and spiny bodies found in Saprolegnia spe- 
cies are not organs of the Saprolegnia, but parasites, ai)parently related 
to Chytridium. Eeinke has studied the chemical composition of the lAskS- 
modium of Aethalium septicum, the principal constituent of which he finds 
to be plastiu, which he has studied in detail. 

ARCHEGONIATA. 

Iu the United States, the principal publication has been the Ferns of 
North America, by Professor Eaton, which reached completion this year, 
including in all 181 plates and accompanying descriptions. Besides 
this principal work there is a paper in the Bull. Torrey Club, on New or 



BOTANY. 327 

lUtlc known Ferm of the United States, by the same writer ; who has also 
issued a tSystematic Fern-List of the species of this country. In tlie Dull. 
Torr. Club are two papers by G. E. Daven])ort, on a new species, Notho- 
Ucna Gmyi, from Arizona, and on Vernation in Botrychium boreale, and 
a paper on Ferns of the Cumberland, hy John Wilhamson. The occur- 
rence of the rare Schizcea jmsilla in Xova Scotia is recorded by Pro- 
fessor Gray jn the Bot. Gazette. In the same journal are notes by Pro- 
fessor Gray and E. J. Loomis on an automatic movement of the frond 
of AHplenium Trichomanes. 

Baker describes some new ferns, collected by Beccari in Sumatra, 
and a collection from Madagascar by Langley Kitcbing in the Joui-nal 
of Botany, where the same writer has also published a Syno2)sis of the 
Species oflsoetes. In the Trans. Linn. Soc. is a llcvieic of the Ferns of 
Northern India, by C. B. Clarke. 

In tlu department of mosses and hepatics there has appeared in the 
United States a Catalogue of North American Mosses, by E. A. liau and 
A. B. Ilervey, and Bryoloyical Notes and Criticisms, by C. F. Austin, in 
the Bull. Torrey Club. An important work is Sphaynacew of Europe 
and North America, by II. Braithwaite, and the British Moss-Flora, part 2, 
including the Buxbaumiacece and Georgiacea', by the same author. The 
Annales des Sciences contain a paper by Bescherelle, entitled Florule 
Bryologique de la Reunion, w^hich also includes mosses from other neigh- 
boi.ng islands. Lindberg has published notes on Scandinavian mosses 
and C. Miiller a Frodromus Bryologixc Argentina, the last named 
paper l)eing a continuation in the Ilevue Bryologique. In Grevillea 
and in tlie Trans, of Bot. Soc. of Edinburgh are notes on British Mepaticce 
by Carrington. The Jungermanniacece have been studied by Gottsche 
who has published new observations oa the Geocalycem and Stephani 
has i)ublished a paper on the Jungermanniacece of Germany with illus- 
tratiojis. 

Treating of Characew we have to notice the ap]>earance of two num- 
bers of the Characew of America, by Dr. T, F. Allen, in which three 
species of NiteUa and three of Chara are described and figured. Dr. 
Allen has also an article in the Bull. Torr. Club on the Similarity between 
the Characew (f America and Asia in wiiich he calls special attention to 
Nitella polyglochin A. Br. and Chara Hydropitys Eeichenb. A Review of 
the British Characew, by Henry and James Groves, is given in the 
Journal of Botany. 

On the general development of the higher cryptogams is to be men- 
tioned Die Gefllsshryptogamen by Sadebeck, in the Encyklopaedie der 
Naturwissenschaften and Goebel's Fmbryologie der Archegoniatcu in 
Arbeiten Bot. Institutes in Wurzburg. Leitgeb has published several 
important papers on Marchantiacew, especially with reference to their 
iutlorescouce and stomata in the proceedings of the Vienna Academy. 
Cramer has an illustrated paper on the Nonsexual increase of the Fern- 



328 BOTANY. 

prothallus, iu which he figures some curious forms of buds and what he 
calls conidia, and iu Kosmos is an article by Dodel-Port ou the iieculiar 
forms which fern-i)rothalli assume when grown under water. 

PH^NOGAMS. 

The most imx)ortaut work published during the year in the United 
States is the second and final volume of the Flora of California, by 
Sereno Watson. The work was published under the auspices of the 
Geological Survey of California, aided by private subscriptions. In the 
work Mr. Watson was aided by Dr. Engelmann, who elaborated the oaks, 
pines, and Loranthacece ; by M. S. Bebb on the willows ; William Boot 
on Carices ; Dr. George Thurber ou the grasses ; and Professor Eaton 
on the higher cryptogams. The work ends with the mosses, the lower 
cryptogams being entirely omitted. The appendix contains a glossary 
and a List of Persons who have made botanical collections in California, 
by Prof. W^. H. Brewer. The botanical contributions of Professor Gray 
in the Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and Sciences aomimse Notes on some Gomposi- 
tee, which form a sort of prodromus of that order in the Synoptical Flora : 
Some Species of Asclepias ; A New Genus of Gentianaeew, Geniostemon 
including two Mexican species ; and Miscellanece of the North American 
Flora, including the new genus Beverchonia. The Vegetation of the Eocky 
Mountain Region, by Professor Gray and Sir J. D. Hooker, published iu 
the Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geog. Survey, although bearing the date 1880, 
was not in reality made generally public until 1881. The Trans. St. 
Louis Academy contain a Revision of the genus Piniis and Description of 
Finns Elliottii, by Dr. Engelmann, with three folio plates by lioetter. 
In the Botanical Gazette are several notices by Professor Gray, of which 
may be mentioned an account of the genus Leavemcorthia, of which 
four species are described. In the same journal Engelmann describes 
a new species of Catalpa, €. speciosa; Mr. T. Morong describes some 
new species of Potamogeton, and Professor Porter a new species, Rahen- 
aria Garberi. Bailey gives an account of Michigan Lake Shore Plants ; 
I. C. Martindale, under the title of Germination and Groivth of Parasitic 
Plants, relates his experience with Orobanche minor. The same botanist 
gives an account of the so-called Bartram Oalc, in which he concludes 
that Quercus heterophyUa Mchx. is a distinct species. J. Donnell Smith 
has in Bull. Torr. Club a note on Woljfid gladiata var. Floridana, in 
which he includes some remarks by Hegelmaier on that species. Prof. 
C. S. Sargent has issued a Catalogue of the Forest Trees of North America 
in connection with the work of the Census Bureau. 

Of foreign works may be mentioned Elmes's Monograph of the genus 
Lilium, a folio with 78 colored plates, and J. G. Baker's Synopsis of 
Aloinece and Yuccoidece in the Journ. Lum. Soc. Several additions have 
been made during the year to works on local floras which had appeared 
in part in previous years. The Flora of British India, by Hooker, has 



BOTANY. 



329 



been continued in part seven to the Buhiacew ; the Biologia centrali. 
americcma, tlie botanical part of which is by Hemsley, contains the 
orders from Eosacew to Loasaccw ; the Flora Bradliensis, fasc. 7G, cou- 
taiuiiig- Lemnacew by Hegelmaier, and .4rflcea?by Engler, was pubbshed 
this year, altliough the last-named order had been- in press for some 
time.' Tournier's Mexicanarum plantarum enumeratio is devoted to the 
grasses',' and the same w-riter has a paper on the geographical distribu- 
tion of I^Iexican grasses in the Ann. Sci. Nat., in which he remarks that 
of the 04:3 species in ^Mexico 371 are peculiar to that country. Adansonia 
contains a number of papers by Baillou on the development of the flow- 
ers in Berheridacea', ^Selaginacew, and StyUdiacew. Concerning oriental 
plants, we have to mention Eegel's Description of Plants from Central 
Asia, cultivated in the Botanic Garden at St. Petersburg ; Diagnoses 
plantarum novarum asiaticarum, by Maximowicx, in the Bull. Acad, 
Imp. of St. Petersburg; Spicilegia Florw Sineiisis, by Hance, in Journ. 
Linn. Soc. A succinct account of the Japanese flora is to be found in 
Rein's work entitled Japan, and a short notice of Madagascar plants 
is given by Baker in Nature. The grasses of New Zealand are described 
by Buchanan in a Manual of indigenous grasses of New Zealand. The 
FragmentorPhytograpUie Australia of Baron F. von Mueller has been 
continued in two parts, and the same writer has issued a fifth decade 
of Fucalyptographia, a descriptive atlas of the species of Extcalyptus of 
Australia and the adjacent islands. In the Gardener's Chronicle is a 
paper on Cinchonas, and a controversy on the subject of species of Cin- 
chona has been carried on in the Bot. Zeitung by Kuntze and Karsten. 
There appeared in 1880 the first volume of Botanische JahrbilGher filr 
Systematih, PflanzengescMchte, und PJlansengeograpMe, edited by Eiigler 
and issued by Englemann, of Leipzig. The first volume contains a large 
number of interesting papers relating to phgenogams, amongst which 
may be enumerated : Beccari^ & PJlanzengeographie des Malayischen ArcU- 
pels', Focke's Natilrliche Gliederung und die geographische Verhreitung der 
Gattung Eubus; Buchenau's Verhreitimg der Juncaceen ilber die Erde; 
Engler's Beitrdge ziir Eenntniss der Aracece and Verhreitung der Gattung 
Rhus; and Lange's Studien iiher Gronlands Flora. In connection with 
the distribution of species should be noticed Quelques observations sur la 
Flore Alpine W Europe, by Bonnier, in which he compares the notes made 
by him on plants collected in the Carpathian Mountains, the Austrian 
Alps, and the Tyrolese Alps, and concludes that the constitution of the 
soil has little to do with the distribution of species, which depends, as 
De Candolle maintained, on the sums of the temperatures. 



ZOOLOGY. 



By Theodore Gill. 



GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 

FEATURES OF PROGRESS. 

The progress of Zoology iu the biennial period just past has shown 
the usual features exhibited during the present deeade. The doctrine 
of evolution is now not only recognized by all scientific workers in biol- 
ogy, but it is i)Ostulated as the starting-point for investigations into the 
affinities of various types, and the eftbrts of biologists are in a great 
measure directed to the ascertaimuent of the philogeny and derivation 
of the various types. This has been exemplified during the past two 
years in attempts at tracing the genealogy of the mamuials, the cephal- 
opods, and the acalephs, as well as various groups of the branches and 
classes of the animal kingdom ; as, for example, the caiUiNorous mam- 
mals, the ungulates, various worms, &c. 

Perhaps the most iiromment feature of the period surveyed has been 
the discovery of numerous deep-sea types, mostlj^ resulting from the 
voyage of the English ship Challenger, but in part also the fruits of 
dredging of minor expeditions and surveys ; for example, the survey 
of the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, under the auspices of the 
United States Coast Survey ; the explorations of the United States Com- 
mission of Fish and Fisheries, and the Norwegian expedition to the 
Arctic Seas in 1S7G to 1878. These several, expeditions and surveys 
have been fruitful in the finding and revelation of many remarkable 
forms. So rich have been the results that, as we shall hereafter see, 
about 2,000 si^ecies of a peculiar group — the Pha^odaria — have been 
made known by a single naturalist, mostly from the collections of the 
Challenger expedition. Our knowledge of the fishes of the deep sea 
has also been greatly increased. 

An especially noteworthy feature in the taxonomy of 1871) and 1880 
has been the establishment of a number of " orders " in various groups 
of the animal kingdom. In view of the disparity iu value of these 
groups, in the several departments of zoology, it seems fitting to utter 
a few words of caution and explauation in this place. What is an 
order ? and what shall be the limits to the range of variation of the 
forms included under such designation '? are <piostions that must nat- 

331 



332 



ZOOLOGY. 



urally suggest tbemselves and be answered. In the first place, of 
course, orders, like every aggregation of animals and plants, must to 
a large extent be arbitrary, and their relations have to be determined 
by a certain standard, from which greater or less deviation must be 
made in individual cases, according to circumstances. The standard, 
however, as will be admitted by ijrobably every rational zoologist, 
should be a type that from its nature and relations may be readily com- 
preheusible and appreciated by the greatest number, and in regard to 
which there is general concurrence. Undoubtedly it is in the class of 
mammals that we find such requisites i^resent in the greatest degree. 
Accepting Linnaeus as the originator, pro tanto, of the idea connected 
with the name order, we naturally look to his exposition cf the mammal 
group.s. We find that though there have been great deviations from 
his api)lications since his day, the fundamental idea of the group, as it 
exists in natiu'e, has been accepted, and the efforts of subsequent zool- 
ogists have been chiefly in the direction of refinement and definition. 
There is now a general concurrence as to the orders recognizable in the 
class of mammals, although some little difterence as to details still pre- 
vails. Taking the most comprehensive ones, we have the Primates, 
Carnivores, Ungulates, Cetaceans, Sirenians, Chiropters, Insectivores, 
Eodeuts, and Marsupials. Now, inasmuch as several of these have 
been subdivided, let it be assumed that no groups between which exist 
greater morphological differences than those which dilferentiate the 
orders, with their maximum limits, from those nearest of kin, shall be 
regarded as less than orders ; and, on the other hand, that we shall not 
distinguish as orders such groui)s as have at least less differences than 
those separating, for example, the Anthropoid and Lemuroid Primates, 
the Fissiped and Pinniped Carnivores, and the Perissodactyle and Arti- 
odactyle Ungulates. From this starting-point it will be in place to ex- 
amine a couple of systematic attempts published during the past year. 
One has been a new revision of the class of Birds ; another, a reiterated 
classification of the Fishes. 

In all nature, among the major aggregates of species, there is not a 
more natural and homogeneous group than that which naturalists unan- 
imously have agreed to consider as a class under the name of Birds. 
So like are all the living representatives of this group in all essential 
details of their morphology, that between the extremes there certainly 
exist less differences than those which separate the cetaceous from any 
other order, and perhaps less even than those which separate the Anthro- 
poid and Lemuroid Primates, or the Fissiped and Pinniped Carnivores. 
Nevertheless, the last reviser of the class has admitted no less than 
26 orders. If the proposition that the order of Mammals is a i^roper 
standard be accepted, there can be no question but that differentiation 
in the class of Birds has been carried to a most unscientific extreme. 

The opposite extreme has been displayed in the treatment of the 
classification of Fishes, in part at least, but at the same time a like 



ZOOLOGY. 333 

extreme in excessive diflt'ereiitiatiou. Dr. Giiutlicr lias published an 
" lutrodnction to the Study of Fislies," in which he recognizes as orders 
certain artificial groups of Teleosts current for a loug time; that is, 
the Acanthopterygii, Acanthopterygii Pharyngognathi, Anacanthini^ 
Physostoini. »S:c. 

The characters used to differentiate these "orders" fail in certain 
representati\es referred to each group, and are of really little more 
systematic imi)ortance in several cases than those used to distinguish 
the "orders" of Birds. Nevertheless, to each of the "orders" in 
question are assigned forms ^vhich do really differ in important ana- 
tomical details, and which have far less relation to the types with which 
they are confounded than do the types of the so-called orders exhibit 
among themselves. We have, consequently, evils here, not only of undue 
valuation, but also radical defects in appreciation of relationships. 
But the same author applies a standard as different as possible to the 
classilication of the generalized types of Fishes 5 committiug, at the 
same time, the great mistake of calling those generalized types the 
highest. All the typical Ganoids, as well as the Polypteroids, and 
Dipnoans are confused together in one heterogeneous order; all the 
Chimairoids, and all the Sharks and Bays, are thrown together in a 
second. There can be no question but that representatives of each of 
these last two so-called " orders" exhibit far greater diversities in their 
structure, inter se, than do any of the orders of existing mammals. 
It is difficult to believe that any consideration could have been given to 
the principles of taxonomy, or that thought could have been actively 
involved in such schemes as the last one noticed. 

As to the new orders recently proposed, and to be noticed hereafter, it 
is probable that the value of the several groups endowed with such rank 
will be questioned by the majority of naturalists, and that the types so 
distinguished will ultimately be degraded in rank. 

The language of the original from which the abstract is compiled is 
followed as closely as the case will permit, as the advantages of such a 
course must be obvious to all on a little reflection. It has however 
been generally found to be necessary to limit the abstract to the illus- 
tration of the prominent idea underlying the original memoir, arid pass 
by the proofs and collateral arguments. At the same time it has been 
often attempted to bring the new discovery into relation with the i»re- 
vious status of information respecting the group under consideration. 
As to the special discoveries recorded, they have been generally selected 
(1) on account of the modifications the forms considered force on the 
system; or (2) for the reason that they are or have been deemed to be 
of high taxonomic importance; or (3) because the animals j^er se are of 
general interest; or, finally (4), because they are of special interest to 
the American naturalist. Of course, zoologists cultivating limited fields 
of research will find in omissions cause for censure, and may urge that 
discoveries of inferior importance have been noticed to the exclusion of 



334 



ZOOLOGY. 



those better entitled to it. It is freely admitted that this charge may 
even be justly made ; but the limits assigned to the record have been 
exceeded, and the recorder has studied the needs of the many rather 
than of the few. The summary is intended, not for the advanced scientific 
student, but for those who entertain a general interest in zoology or 
some of the better-known classes. 

The compilation of this record has been greatly facilitated by the 
•' Zoologischer Anzeiger" of Professor Carus and the very useful synop- 
ses published in the Journal of the Eoy al Microscox)ical Society of London. 
The value of both of the records thus referred to is, however, very greatly 
reduced by the absence of an index to names of authors cited in the 
first, and to the neglect to give a reference to the exact title and place of 
publication of the original j)aper in connection with the abstract in the 
latter case. The consequence is that very much valuable time must be 
lost to confirm and find references. 

ANAL RESPIRATION IN ANIMALS. 

Mr. M. M. Hartog, in connection with observations on the anal respi- 
ration of Cyclops^ as well as Canthocamptus of the Harpacticidse and 
Diaptonius of the Calanidse, has enumerated the forms of Invertebrates 
in which anal respiration is manifested.* These belong to the following 
classes and major groups: 
Vermes : 
Rotifera. 
Gephyrea. 
OUgocUceta-Limicola. 

ECHINODEKMATA : 

Holothuroidea. 
Arthropoda : 

Crustacea (generally). 

Insecta (aquatic larvae generally). 

MOLLUSOA : 
Dentalium. 

PHOSPHORESCENCE IN ANIMALS. 

Mons, Jousset dc Bellesme has continued his researches upon tlie phos- 
phorescence of animals by a special investigation of that of the glow- 
worm.t He concludes that the phosphorescent substance is probably a 
gaseous product, for the structure of the giand does not give us the idea 
of an organ with a liquid secretion. The chemical products which are 

* Hartog (M. M.). On the Anal Respiration of tlie Copepoda. Quart, Jour. Micr. 
Science, vol. xs, pp. 244, 245. 

tJousset de Bellesmo. Experimental Researclies in the Phosphoresence of the Glow- 
worm. Ann. Mag. Kat. Hist. (5,) vol. v, pp. 345-347. (Translated from the Comptes 
Jtendus, vol. xc.) Printed in fuU in the Journ. Anat. et Phys., vol. xvi, pp. 121-169. 



ZOOLOGY. 



335 



l^liosplioresceut at ordinary temi^cratures are not numerous, aud tlie one 
wbicli chiefly occurs is phospbureted hydrogen. This, M. Jousset de 
Bellesmeis led to believe, is the case in the glowworm, aud be is influ- 
enced in bis opinion by the extreme resemblance observable between the 
lihosphorescence of substances in decomposition which is due to the 
evolution of phospbureted hydrogen and that of luminous animals. They 
present, he thinks, the same physical characteristics, the same affinity 
for oxygen, the only ditt'erence being that the cadaveric phos])horescence 
is continuous, while the phosphorescence of animals is intermittent. 
But the latter is due to the fact that the cellular decomposition which 
sets free the luminous product tak es place in animals of high organiza- 
tion only under excitation of the nervous system, and in the lower ani- 
mals {e. (J. — Noctilucw) only by means of external excitants. 

The author has been led by his investigations to regard phosphores 
cence as a general property of protoplasm consisting in the evolution of 
phospbureted bj'drogen. 

This view readily explains why many of the lower animals, although 
destitute of a nervous system, are j^bosphorescent, aud has the addi- 
tional advantage of connecting the phenomena of i)hosi)horescence 
observable in living animals with those exhil.i . d in organic matters in 
course of decomposition. It is, he concludes, another example of a 
biological phenomenon very closely related to an exclusively chemical 
cause. 

LIGHT AND ITS EFFECTS ON ANIMALS. 

It may be recalled that some years ago General Pleasoutou recorded 
some startling ideas with respect to the mflueuce of blue light. As 
the observations were evidently made in a very crude fashion, little 
attention was paid to them. The subject of the influence of different 
colored rays has been made the subject during the past year of special 
investigation by Moleschott and Fubini.* The eggs of a frog and toad 
were placed in: vessels and covered with glasses or fluids of different 
colors. "At first the developmental processes did not differ among 
the different ova, or from those which were exposed to ordinary day- 
light." When rotation commenced, however, it was found that the eggs 
exposed to red light rotated most ra^ndly, while great toriwr was 
exhibited by those under the blue glass ; tlie rest, exposed to .\ellow or 
green light, did not differ at all from those developed under uncolored 
glass. " The most greedy were those under the blue glass. When 
brought from their artificial influence, its effects gradually passed off. 
When changed from one color to another, the activity displayed became 
gradually more or less." In investigating the action of different kinds 

* Molescliott aud Fubini. Jour. Boy. Micr. Soc, vol. ii, pp. 138, 273, and %'oi. iii, p. 
409. Also, E. Yung, on the influence of colored light on the development of animals. 
Compies Itendus Acad. Sci. Paris, vol. xci, pp. 440, 441. 



336 



ZOOLOGY. 



of colored liglit on the excretion of carbonic acid, the following results 
were obtained : 



Uninjured frog 
Uuiniured bird 
Uninjured rat . 
Blind mammal 



Dark- 
ness. 



Red. 



100 
100 
100 
100 



100. 5 
128 
111 
109 



Blue- 
violet. 



115 
139 
140 
114 



White. 



112 
142 
137 
113 



It is concluded that light has " a considerable iuliuence on metabolic 
activity. It increases the excretion of carbonic acid and the ingestion 
of oxygen, but this influence is not only mediate through the eyes, it 
obtains through the skin, for it is seen in ej'eless animals. When the 
eyes only or the skin only are aliected, the result is less than when the 
whole animal is brought under its influence. The tissues are no less 
affected than the whole body. The chemical rays have greater eftect 
than the heating ones, and the result that light has a chemical influence 
on metabolism cannot be evaded." (Abstract from J. R. M. S.) 

EFFECTS OF STARVATION. 

Surg. D. B. Cunningham, of the Indian medical ser\ice, has investi- 
gated the i)hysiology of starvation in certain fungous plants, and Am- 
phibans (of the tadpoles of a toad — Bufo melanostictm and a irog — 
Eana tigrina).* The result of his investigation was to demonstrate that 
a fatty degeneration and disintegration of the protoi)lasm ensued, and 
in the animals an atrophy of the intestinal canal. The fatty degenera- 
tion effects in the greatest degree the lining cells of the digestive canal, 
and this in time is completely left destitute of epithelium, and therefore 
no longer capable of fulfilling the functions of secretion and absorption. 
When this climax is reached death must ensue, but as long as any of the 
epithelium is left (even though it be much degenerated) recovery is pos- 
sible. In connection with these experiments Surgeon Cfmniugham has 
studied the phenomena exhibited by starvation in the case of the in- 
habitants of India who suffered and died from the famine lately preva- 
lent in that country. Although patients that had been for some time 
deprived of food showed no symptoms of actual disease, they were at- 
tacked by diarrhoea and dysentery with almost certainly fatal results, 
and thus was indicated inability for assimilation. A i)Ost-morteui ex- 
amination proved that there was, as in the case of the plants and ani- 
mals experimented upon, a fatty degeneration of the tissues, especially 
the alimentary canal. So long, however, as the sufferers had a small 
amount of nutriment no active symjitoms were manifested, and it was 
only when they were afforded a generous supply, that famine diarrhoea 
and dysentery commenced. The most rigorous attention and regimen 

* Cuuuingliam (D. D.). Certain effects of starvation on vegetable and .animal tis- 
sues. Quart. Jour. Micr. Science, Janayiry, 1880. 



ZOOLOGY. 337 

were found to be iueffectnal in advanced cases ; but if only slight degen- 
eration of the tissues had taken place, food judiciouslj' supplied coun- 
teracted the efiects of previous i)rivatiou. As soon, however, as exten- 
sive degeneration had taken jjlace no care was sufiQcient to recuperate 
the patient. 

EHIZOPODS. 

A NEW "CLASS" OF RIIIZOPODS.* 

As long ago as 1859, Professor Haeckel had known several peculiar 
forms of Ehizopods, which he subsequently described in a monograph 
of the lla<liolaria as representatives of three distinct lamilies. In 1879 
Hertwig differentiated these forms, with others subsequently made known, 
as an order of Kadiolaria, under the name " Tripyle;e." A large number 
of forms belonging to the group were obtained by the Challenger exi>e- 
dition, and have been subjected to a critical study by Ilaeckel, and, as 
Murray first showed, "a striking character of all these Ehizopods is the 
constant presence of large dark-brown pigmented granules, scattered 
irregularly round the central-capsule, and covering the greater part of 
its outer surface." This extra capsular mass is called by Haeckel the 
" pha?odium " (dark brown or dusky). " The phaeodella, large brown 
granules of the '■ plupodium,' are not, as Murray supposed, true pigment 
cells, as a true cell nucleus can not be observed in them ; and the nature 
of the peculiar pigment of these pseudo-cells is not precisely known ; 
but the quantity and constancy with which the ' plmeodium ' appears in 
all ' Pha^odaria,' while it is wanting in all the typical Eadiolaria, gives 
the Phseodaria a high degree of systematic imi^ortance." On account of 
this " constant presence of the phseodium, and the peculiarly constructed 
membrane of the central-capsule," the type thereby differentiated is iso- 
lated and a distinct " class " constituted for it. The species generally 
attain considerable size, in comparison with other Eadiolaria, and are 
even visible to the naked eye. Many are a half millimeter or more in 
diameter. " The conspicuous central capsule is usually round or sphe- 
roidal: it is, however, often egg-shaped or somewhat oval. In many 
cases it is monaxial ; in others dipleuric. Its membrane is very firm 
and always double, the outer layer very thick, the inner thin. The 
opening through which the pseudopodia appear has the very peculiar 
structure accurately described by E. Hertwig. Many Phteodaria have 
only one such opening [MonopyJecv)^ others have two at the opposite 
poles of the central-capsule {AmpMpiilew)^''' and still others more. The 
siliceous skeleton is extra capsular. Although the principal forms of 
this group have analogues among the typical Eadiolara, they are usu- 
ally readily distinguished from them. Haeckel has proposed teji "fam- 
ilies," and these have been segregated by him under four "orders," 
distinguished severally by characteristics of the skeleton, or the absence 
of a skeleton. He has found among the forms examined by him what 
he calls more than 2,000 new species ! 

* A new class of Kbizopoda. Nature, vol. xxi, pp. 449-451, March 11, 1880 
S. Mis. 31 22 



338 ZOOLOGY. 

HYDEOZOA OR ACALEPHS. 

WATER IN MEDUSA. 

Some time ago it was stated by Professor Mobiiis that in a specimen 
of Aurelia aurita, from the Bay of Kiel, it had been ascertained that 
there was 99.82 per cent, of water, and consequently the solid matter 
could only have formed a small fraction of 1 per cent. This statement 
was so remarkable that, before acceptance, it required verification, and 
Dr. Krukenberg has recently examined specimens of the class, with the 
object of verifying or disproving the allegation.* 

Specimens of Aurelia found at Triest were examined, and it was found 
that the water formed only from 95.84 to 95.79 per cent, of the total, 
the solid existing in the ratio of from 4.21 to 4.66 per cent. Chrysaora 
liyoscella afforded 95.75 per cent, to 96.3 per cent, of water, and there 
was from 3.7 to 4.25 of solid substances. A large specimen of lih izostoma 
Cuvieri was found to contain 95.392 per cent, of water, and consequently 
nearly 5 of solid matter, of which there were 1.608 per cent, of organjp 
and 3 per cent, of inorganic substances. It was concluded that proba- 
bly the MedusiB generally exhibit a close approximation to these results, 
and that in none is there so small a percentage of solid matter to be 
found as in the case instanced by Mobius. 

EXTRA-MARINE MEDUSJE. 

There is, perhaps, no type of animals that has been generally regarded 
as being so eminently characteristic of the open sea as the Medusie. While 
representatives of the class exhibiting the hydriform condition have of 
course been long well known as inhabitants of fresh waters, until recently 
none of the medusiform groups have been specially noticed as having 
been found elsewhere than in the sea. It has been said of them that 
they dread nothing more than fresh water, and that such water is really 
poison to them ; that even brackish water kills them immediately ; and, 
further, that they need a water rich in oxygen and constantly renewed 
by movements of the waves and currents. "The Medusw, in fact, have 
almost an equal dread of fresh water, of stagnant sea-water, and of a 
slightly too high temperature." Several cases, however, have been 
recorded within the last two years which must materially modify the 
accepted beliefs with regard to their habitat. 

FRESH-WATER MEDUSAE. ^ 

Mr. Agassiz has shownt that the idea respecting the exclusive con- 
finement of Medusfe to perfectly salt and clean sea water is exaggerated. 
He records that in an estuary back of Boston harbor, at West Boston 

* C. F. W. Krutenberg. On the distribution of the water of tbe organic and inor- 
ganic compounds in tbe body of Invertebrates. Vcrgl.-Physiol. Stud. Kiisl. Adria. I, 
part ii, pp. 7&-106. {J. E. M. S.\ 

t Agassiz (Alexander). Aa quoted in Joiirn. E. Micr. Soc, vol. iii, p. 968. 



ZOOLOGY. 339 

bridge (about one aiilo from the head of the harbor), and \ihere the 
water, at the hist part of the tide, is ahiiost fresh and has a very sHght 
salt taste, there is au abiuidauee of Hydroids, which "thrive remarka- 
bly well ou the drainage of the district, and grow to an unusually large 
size." The species which have free medusce are Encope diaphana, E. 
pi/ri/'onnis, and ObeJia commissumlis, and these are twice during -!4 hours 
of the day exposed alternately to salt and nearly fresh water, and thrive 
under the change, both in their hydriform and medusiform conditions. 
Other medusiie found near the same place, and which, at low tide, were 
in fresli water, were species of Sarsiw, Fiaropsis, and Aurelia, and these 
seemed unaffected by the large quantity of fresh water in which they 
were found. 

NEW PALUDICOLOUS MEDUSA.* 

lu 1876, Dr. Dn Plessis discovered "in the middle of the discharg 
ing canal of the salt-works of Villeroy, near Cette," a Medusa which 
inhabits in the summer the stream thereof and the near-lying waters. 
The canal is about two or three yards broad and one deep. "The soil 
is a black putrid mud, stinking of sulphureted hydrogen," and the water 
is perfectly stagnant, very brackish, and exposed all day long to the full 
rays of the sun. "The Medusa always inhabits the lower surface of 
islets of floating alg*. On removing these it is seen clinging like a 
Hake of jelly, shining like crystal." They only occur in June and July, 
and were looked for in vain in spring as well as in September and Octo- 
ber. The Medusa in question was ascertained to belong to the genus 
Cosmetira, a representative of the family of Oceanidie, and is very 
closely related to, though much smaller than, the Cosmetira punctata, 
which is abundant in the contiguous sea. Dr. Du Plessis, who described 
the species in 1879, considers that it furnishes an example of the influ- 
ence of the surrounding medium in the gradual modification and trans- 
formation of one species into another, for he df)ubts not that the diminu- 
tive Cosmetira is a decendant of the Cosmetira punctata, from which it 
has become modified and reduced greatly in size, while the canals and 
stomach have assumed a green color, and the general rose-color of the 
oceanic form has been changed into violet, while the tentacles become 
black. 

A FRESHWATER JELLY-FISH. t 

In the summer of 1880 Mr. Sowerby, the secretary of the Eoyal Bo- 
tanical Society of London, noticed quite a number of small animals, 
which were soon ascertained to be medusae, in a warm-water tank in 

* Du Plessis, G. Etude sur la Cosmetira saliuarum, sp. n., uouvelle Meduse paludicole 
dcs euvirons de Cette. Bull. Soc. Ta«(Z. ('2,) vol. xvi, pp. 39-45, pi. Also, Jh. Mikj. 
Xat. Hist. (5), vol. iii, pp :«5-389. 

tLankester (E. Eay). On a uew Jelly-fisli, of the order Traclxomedusce, living in 
fresh water. Nature, vol. xxii, pp. 147-148, June 17, 1880. See also vol. xxii, pp. 177-lbl, 
(Laiikcster, AUmanu, Romanes); 218 (Allmann); 241 (Lankester) ; 290 (Allmann); 316 
(Lankester). 



340 



ZOOLOGY. 



"wbick plants of t'he Victoria regia were growing in the garden of that 
society. The water in the tank had a temperature of about 90° F., and 
was literally swarming with the little medusse, the larger of which 
measured nearly half an iuch in transverse diameter. They were A^ery 
energetic in their swimming, and displayed the characteristic systole 
and diastole of the umbrella, and were nourishing apparently in the very 
conditions which contribute most completely to their well being. Speci- 
mens of this form were obtained by Profs. E. Eay Lankester and Geo. 
G. Allmann, and described by the former June 17, and by the latter June 
24, in "Nature" J by the former, under the name Craspedacusta Sotcerbii, 
and by the latter as Limnocodium Victoria. Subsequently an attempt 
to compromise on the name was made, and Professor Lankester desired 
to perpetuate the designation of Limnocodium Soiverhii. Inasmuch, 
however, as Craspedacusta was first used and accompanied by a satis- 
factory diagnosis, there can be no question but that conformity with 
the laws of nomenclature compels its retention. The most characteristic 
feature of the new form is the development of otoliths and velar canals. 
The otoliths are " placed along the line of insertion of the velum — about 
80 in number (fewer in small specimens). From IG to 20 are placed 
between successive perradial tentacles arranged in groups of two or three 
between the successive secondary tentacles." The velar centrifugal 
canals " (which are really the elongated otocysts) are peculiar to this 
genus ; passing from the otoliths (one inclosing each otolith) into the 
velum, and then ending blindly. They appear to correspond to the 
centrif)etal canajs found in other Trachomedusae, in the disk." By Pro- 
fessor Lankester it is claimed that Craspedacusta belongs to the family 
Petasidfe among the Trachomedusse, which are distinguished by the 
development of '■'■four radial canals, in the course of which four gonads 
lie, with a long tubular stomach, and no stomach-stalk." According to 
Professor Allmann, however, while some of the characters "point to an 
affinity with both Trachomedusie and Narcomedusae, this affinity ceases 
to show itself in the very importaut morphological element afforded by 
the marginal bodies. In both Trachomedusse and Narcoiuedusae the 
marginal bodies belong to the tentacular system ; they are metamor- 
phosed tentacles, and their otolite cells are endodermal, whih^ in the 
Leptomeduste, the only other order of craspedototal Meduste in which 
marginal vesicles occur, these bodies are genetically derived from the 
velum. Xow,in Limnocodimn the marginal vesicles seem to be as truly 
velar as in the Leptomeduste. They occur on the lower or abambral side 
of the velum, close to its insertion into the umbrella, and the tubular exten- 
sion of their capsule runs along this side to the free margin of the velum, 
while the delicate epithelium of the abumbral side passes over them, as 
in the Leptomedusae. It is true that this point cannot be regarded as 
settled until an opportunity of tracing the development is afforded ; but 
in very young specimens which I examined I found nothing opi)Osed to 
the view that the marginal vesicles were derived, like those of the 



ZOOLOGY. 



■11 



Leptomedus*, from the velum." It is concluded tliat Limnocodium " will 
liold a position intermediate between tbe Leptomedusic and the Tracbo- 
medusiie ; but as tbe greatest systematic importiince must be attached 
to the structure and origin of the marginal vesicles, its affinity with tbe 
Leptomedusie must be regarded as the closer of the two." 

ECniXODERMS. 

A NEW ORDER OF HOLOTHURIOID ECHINODERMS.* 

Quite a number of remarkable forms have been procured within the 
last hve years at great depths of the ocean in various parts of the world, 
and these have been recently brought together by Hjalmar Theel in one 
group, differentiated as an " order " closely related to the Holothurioidea. 
These newly discovered forms essentially resemble the Holothurioids in 
general structure. It is noted, however, that the Holothurioids are 
mostly fusiform or cylindrical in shape, although some {e.g.^Psolns and 
Cuvicrla) are most decidedly bilateral ; the ra*liat« symmetry prevails so 
far externally that the five rixdial ambulacral vessels and their api>endages 
are generally similar, or nearly so, and run symmetrically at equal dis- 
tances from one another from the anal to the apical pole, and they may 
be even used indiiferently for the purpose of progression ; but, never- 
theless, of these five ambulacra, three— constituting the trivium— are ven- 
tral, and the other two — the bivium— are dorsal. While such is the rule 
however the exceptions are such as to compel us to be cautious, 
lest we i>lace an undue value on deviations even much less than those 
recognized as occurring in forms universally conceded to be true repre- 
sentatives of the order. 

In the newly discovered forms the body is always " distinctly bilat- 
eral," (1) " the lateral ambulacra of the trivium bearing large, slightly 
retractile pedicels, disposed either in a single row, or sometimes in two 
rows, along each side of the ventral surface, and sometimes with another 
series of larger highly elongated not retractile processes placed exter- 
nally and above the pedicels ; pedicels of the two lateral ambulacra 
symmetrically arranged, being more or less distinctly opposed across the 
ventral surface " ; (2) "the odd ambulacrum naked, or very seldom with 
a few rudimentary pedicels"; (3) "bivium provided with very long, not 
retractile processes, often disposed in one or more rows along each of its 
ambulacra, and more or less distinctly opposed across the dorsal surface, 
or with only a few rudimentary ones in ii.s anterior part, or with a single 
very large one resembling a broad, branch e<l or unbranched lobe, and 
near to it some small papillae;" (4) there are "no respiratory trees;" 
and (5) the integument is "naked, spiculous, or plated." Such are tbe 
characteristics common to the forms. While the ordinal value of this 
type may perhaps be generally disputed, the forms are of no Utile in- 

* Hjalmar Tli6eL The Elasmopoda, a new order of Holotliurideo. 2saiure, vol. xxi, 
pp. 470-473, Marcli 18, 1880. 



342 ZOOLOGY. 

terest. Ten distinct geuera bave been diflferentiated and are represented 
by seventeen known species. These have all been obtained in the deep sea, 
at great depths. They exhibit extraordinary proportions and develoi^- 
ment of the ambulacral appendages, and their siugnlarities have given 
rise to some remarkable generic names, as Delma (a fright), Oneiro- 
j)hanta (a vision), Ilyodemon (ooze spirit), and Irpa and Kolga (both 
names derived from the ]!^orse mythology). " One group is very gelati- 
nous, and of a rich purjjle color ; others are gelatinous, gray, and semi- 
transparent ; while another series, and among these the most fantastic 
of the whole, are yellowish, and have a crustaceous test, with a thick 
laj'er of calcareous plates, often running out into strangely shaped pro- 
cesses. A peculiar little group from the Antarctic Sea are little more 
than a gelatinous membrane, covering an enormously distended intes- 
tine, filled with diatom ooze." It is evident that the type is quite char- 
acteristic of the abyssal fauna, for in most hauls of the dredge made in 
very great dejJths forms are brought up in considerable number. 

SYSTEM OF STAR-FISHES. 

Mr. C. Viguier has investigated the comparative anatomy of the skel- 
eton of star-fishes, and in connection therewith has applied the data 
gained to the revision of the system.* He first recognizes two primary 
groups, to which he gives (with doubtful propriety) the name of sub- 
classes, and then divides these sub-classes into families, characterized 
in the main by modifications of the frame work, as well as by the char- 
acter of the odontophore, teeth, and pedicillaria. 

The first sub-class includes the typical star-fishes and related types, 
as the Asteriadie, Heliasteridte, and Brisingidoe, which have, as common 
characters, the mouth of the ambulacral type; i)edicilaria pedunculate, 
and straight or claw shaj)ed, and the ambulacra generally in four rows. 
The second sub-class is richest in representatives, and these have a 
mouth of the adambulacral type, the pedicellaria sessile and valvular, 
and the ambulacra are always biserial. Seven families are distin- 
guished by the names Ecliinasieridic. Linclciadw, Goniasteridcv, Asterini- 
dw, I'teraateridw, Astropectlnidw, and Archastcridct'. 

A GENERALIZED STAR-FISH. 

A form of star-fish (using the word in its broadest sense) has been 
found in the sea about Madagascar, which is remarkable for certain of 
its characters, for although in truth an ophiuroid, it exhibits some fea- 
tures approximating it to the asteroids. According to the describer (Mr. 
W. Percy Sladen),* indeed, the characters of Asteroidea and Ophiu- 
roidea are combined in singular manner. The disk is enlarged and peu- 

* Viguier (C). Anatomie compardo tlu squelette ties Stell^rides, in Archives Zool. ex- 
perim., t. vii, pp. 32-250. 

* Sladen (W. P.). On the Structure of Asthrophiura., a new and aberrant genus of 
Ecbinodermata. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5,) vol. iv, pp. 401-415, pi. 20. 



ZOOLOGY. 343 

tagonal and tlie rays singularly abbreviated and aborted, so tliat the 
form is very unlike an ordinary opliiuroid. In ftict the arms are for the 
greater part of their length inclosed in a disk formed of calcareous 
plates both above and below, but only a small portion of jointed arm 
projects from each angle of the pentagon thus formed, and, with the 
structure along the lines of tlie arms on the lower surface, reminds one 
of the ophiurids. It is contended that the whole skeleton structure is 
due to the abnormal development of the ordinary plates of the ophiurid, 
but at the same time in the structure of the animal a number of charac- 
ters are observable which tend toward the asteroids, such as a great 
development of the ambulacral system, with formation of supplementary 
plates separating the tentacular compartments, the extension of the peri- 
toneal cavity iuto the radial portions of the animal, and the organiza- 
tion of the mouth. 

Mr. Sladeu concludes with some general remarks on the characteris- 
tics and relations of this new type. He argues that " the i^entagonal 
flattened gonio-discoid body, combining within its area representatives 
of the whole free radial system, as well as of the disk of the typical 
Ophiuran, presents us with nothing less than the anomaly of an organ- 
ism having ophiuroid ray-plates exjjanded aud then consolidated along 
with their disk into a pentagonal asteroid form of test. Such a re- 
markable arrangement of the entire brachial series and abnormal devel- 
opment of the side arm-plates is," he says, " so far as I am aware, quite 
without a parallel amongst the Ophiuroidea, and constitutes a character 
which I regard as an approach to the structure of the Asteroidea. Al- 
though it may be asserted that the resemblance is largely superficial, 
and that the plates, when taken individually, are truly ophiuroid after 
all, the objection is counter-balanced by the fact that this combination 
of radial and interradial systems within a common periphery involves 
morphologically a principle of much higher import than simply outward 
form, and to which testimony is borne, more or less fully, by each of the 
following i^articulars, that is, (I) " the limitation of the tentacular pore- 
system to the disk" 5 (2) "the extremely rudimentary condition and. 
aborted character of that portion of the radial series which is jirolonged 
beyond the body-disk, and which seem to give indications of disuse and 
cessation of function in this area of Ophiuroid organization, followed by 
a localization of function according to the plan of Asteroid organiza- 
tion" ; (3) " the extraordinary develojiment of the tentacular or ambul- 
acral system as compared with its usual standing in Opliiurian anatomy, 
together with a most extreme modification of the muscular system char- 
acteristic of that group," indicating unequivocally a tendency toward the 
growth of Asteroid characters; (4) " the prolongation of the peritoneal 
cavity into the radial portion of the animal," evincing " a divergence 
towards a structure usual in the Asteroid group"; (5) the simple and 
rudimentary character of the mouth armature," which differs from the 
ox)hiuroid and api^roximates the asteroid type; and (G) "the aborted 



344 ZOOLOGY. 

cliaracter of the axis or internal arm- skeleton." In fine, the cbaiac- 
teristies of the new type are such as to isolate it, at least with family 
value, from all the other Ophiuroids, and this is established under the 
name " AstropMuridoc,''^ by Mr. Sladen, with the following character- 
istics : 

The arms, with an Ophiuroid disk, included in a pentagonal body ; 
the teeth absent ; the armature of the mouth simple and imperfect ; the 
I)ores for the ambulacra! feet separated by narrow septa, which are per- 
pendicular to the rays ; the interbrachial cavity very broad. 

WORMS AND WOEM-LIKE ANIMALS. 

MODIFICATIONS OF WORM-TYPE. 

Tlie arrangement of worm-like animals in the systema naturcc has taxed 
the learning and ingenuity of naturalists to a high degree, and especially 
during the last quarter of a century. Witliin the last two years sev- 
eral attempts have been submitted, exhibiting the widest diversities from 
each other. Whatever may be tlie ultimate verdict, it is quite ct^.rtain 
that there is no concurrence now as to the value of the characters used 
to distinguish the various groups. As an indication of some of the tend- 
encies in tlie taxonomy of the tjpes in question, several of the sys- 
tematic expositions are noteworthy. 

Mr. A. Giard, in connection with a communication on the Orthonectids, 
gives his peculiar views of the worm-like aninuils.* 

The name Vermes is accepted as the designation of a " sub-kingdom" 
which includes Orthonectids, Dicj^emida, Trematoda, Cestoda, and Tur- 
bellaria. 

The name GymnotocaIs suggested for the "Annelida and associated 
groups," as well as the Bryozoa, and also the true Mollusca. (The 
Tunicata, he thinks, "must be i)laced at the foot of the sub-kingdom 
Vertebrata.") 

The designation Nematelmia is used for the Nematoida, Echinorhyn- 
cha, Desmoscolecida, Gastrotricha, &c. 

the intestinal worms OF the horse of DENMARK. 

Dr. H. Krabbe lias investigated the relative frequency of occurrence 
of different entozoa of the intestinal canal of the horse in Denmark.t 
The following is the ratio to the hundred tor the different species ascer- 
tained, which are six in number, namely: 

Times. 

Taenia perfoliata 28 

" mamillana 8 

* Giarcl (A.). The Ortlionectida, a now class of the Pliylum of the Worms. Quart. 
Jour. Mier. Sci., vol. xx., pp. 225-240. 

tKrahbe (H.). Researches on the occurrence of Intestinal Worms in the intestinal 
canal of the Horse. Ann. Mag. Nat. Rht., (5,) vol. vi, pp. 96,97. 



ZOOLOGY. 345 

Times, 

Ascaris mcgalocephala IG 

Strongylus armatus 86 

" tetraccuithns (in 07 out of 80 horses) 78 

Oxyuris curvula 3 

A NEW TYPE OF PARASITIC WORMS. 

Surgeon-Major G. E. Dobson has recently made known a reraarlcable 
parasitic worm found in the intestine of an African bat {Megaderma 
from). This has hitely been examined by Dr. J. D. McDonald* as well 
as by Surgeon l^obson. The former remarks that at first he agreed 
with Surgeon Dobson in thinking that it represented a new order of 
Annelids, but he is now disposed to look upon it as a new type, whose 
alliance is rather with the Xematoda. Surgeon Dobson considers it as 
the type of a new order of worms, which he calls Metabdellada, and 
which he refers to the "Archieostomata," among which, it is to be inter- 
posed between the Itotifers and the Trematods. 

THE CLASS OF ORTHONECTIDS.t 

In 1877 Mr. A. Giard, of Paris, described some parasitic a .imals of 
very low organization as the constituents of a peculiar class to which he 
gave the name Orthonectida. These Orthonectida i) resent, as a perma- 
nent feature of their existence, the plauula-form, which is one of the em- 
bryological stages of most animals. They occur as parasites in Nemer- 
teans and Ophiuroids. Mr. Giard has since suiiplemented his original 
observations and studied their reproduction. Their movements, inde- 
pendent of vibratile cilia, are due to the presence of muscle-like bands 
belonging to the endodermic cells and forming a splanchno-pleural 
"pseudo-mesoderm." lieproduction is effected in two ways: (1) sex- 
ually and (2) by gemmiparity. In the former course it is (a) by the for- 
mation of a blastula or (h) by the jiroduction of an epibolic ga,strula wMch 
finally closes, and, in both cases, there ensues a permanent planula state 
with a metamerized ectoderm. In the latter course gemmiparity super- 
venes in the interior of enormous sporocysts formed by the endoderm of 
the progenitve animal. It is as a result of gemmiparity that the Ortho- 
nectids are met with in abundance in their host. The Orthonectids, it is 
concluded, "are Gastrseada brought by parasitism to the state of planula^''^ 
and their importance on the "Gastra3a theorj^" is very great. (See, 
also, Metschnikoff" in Zool. Anzeigcrj vol. ii, j). 547.) 

*Macdoiiald (.Jolin Deuis). Ou tlie anatomy of a new parasitic worm found in the in- 
testine of a bat (Megaderma frous). Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) vol. vi, pp. 409-411, 
pi. 21. Also, Dobson (G. E.). Note on Pterogodermatiten Macdoualdii ; the type of a 
new order of Vermes. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (.5), vol. vi, pji. 412-414. 

t Giard (A.). On the organization and classification of the Orthonectids. Ann. and 
Mag. Nat. Hist., (X>,) vol. iv, pp. 471-473. From Comptes liendus, September 22, 1879. 



346 ZOOLOGY. 

A NEW PRIMITIVE TYPE OF WORMS.* 

The genus Polygordius has been supposed to represent one of the most 
primitive forms of Annelids, but in 1880 Dr. Hatschek made known a 
species which seems to be still more simple in its organization, and there- 
fore to exhibit the most archaic form in which the Annelidan structure 
is known to exist at the present day. This new form has been named 
FrofodriUis LeucTcarti, and was found near Messina. The inferiority of 
its organization is manifest especially in the nervous system, the ven- 
tral ciliary groove, the blood vascular system, and the intestine. The 
muscular system resembles that of Polyf/ordlus. " The nervous system is 
dififlcult to make out in the living object, the ganglionic nature of the 
frontal ganglion being indistinguishable and the presence of the organ 
merely indicated by a thickening of the integument ; the sensory organs 
are represented by two transverse, elongated, ciliated slits, placed on the 
dorsal surface of the anterior i>ortion of the head. There are no pig- 
mented eyes." The intestine has no rectal division. " Just behind the 
mouth there opens into the oesophagus a muscular organ of a comi)li- 
cated form, and terminating blindly in a chitinous vesicle very similar 
to the same organ in Folygnrdlus ; it has a function which still remains to 
be discovered." (Condensed from J. E. M. S., vol. iii, pp. 791-792.) 

POLYGORDIUS AND ITS RELATIONS TO OTHER WORMS. 

A worm-like form that has excited much interest and has been 
regarded as the most primitive of Annelids is the genus Polygordius. 
What is now known to be the larva of this form has been long known, 
and had excited considerable speculation, but its parentage was discov- 
ered but lately. Dr. Hatschek has been able to verify the develop- 
mental stages of this type,t and has recognized six : (1) That prior to 
segmentation, when the embryo is small and Transparent, broader than 
long, and divided into two parts by two parallel circlets of cilia in the 
middle line, with the month placed between these and the arms, and 
the latter opening at the inferior pole of the bod.y, and with two eye 
spots above; (2) the primitive segments of the body appear, the meso- 
derm is further developed, as is also the posterior circlet of cilia ; (3) 
the larva becomes elongated, differentiation of the ventral cord and 
antennae ensues, and a ciliated pit sui^ervenes on either side of the head, 
and represents apparently the future olfactory organ ; (4) the walls of 
the enteric cavity become strengthened by the apposition of the proper 
division of the mesoderm, and the posterior circlet of cilia becomes 
greatly developed; (5) the cuticle of the trunk becomes thicker, and the 

* Hatschek (B.). ProtodrLlus Leuckartii, eine ntue Gattung der Arcliiaimelides. 
Arl. Zool. Inst. Wien, vol. iii, pj). 79-92, with 2 pi. 

tHatschek iu Jour. Boy. Micr. Soc.,\o\. ii, pp. 563-567. Also, Giard (A.). Sur les 
affiuitds du genre Polygordius avec les Aun^lides de la famille des Opheliidte. Comptes 
Bendus Ac. Sci. Paris, vol. xci, pp. 341-343. (Translated in Ann. Mag. Kat. Hist., (5,) 
vol. vi, pp. 324-326.) 



ZOOLOGY. 317 

legion of tlie liead becomes mucli more like wliat it will be in the adult, 
while its circlets of cilia begin to disappear; (0) two distinct regions 
become apjjareut in the head, the tentacles become prominent, the walls 
of the mid gut are considerably thickened ; and there is still a mass of 
rounded, indifferent cells, which appear to be the rudiments of the gen- 
erative products. 

Taking- these different §tages of development into consideration, Dr. 
Hatschek indorses the view that Fohjgordius is an Annelid, although it 
manifests many points in adult structure which are merely embryonic in 
other forms. Folygordius thus represents what may be designated 
Archi- Annelids or primitive Annelids, and its afliliatious with the other 
types are indicated as follows : 

Annelides. 

First order, Polygordildw. 
Second order, Chcetopoda. 

First suborder, Saccoeinidw. 

Second suborder, Folycluvta. 

Third suborder, Oligochwta. 
Third order, Ilirudhiea. 
Fourth order, Gaphyrca. 
(Condensed from J. R. M. S., vol. ii, pp. 503-567.) 

PLATY HELMINTH ES. 

PARASITIC PLANARIANS. 

Inasmuch as extremely few parasitic Planarians have been hitherto 
recognized, the discovery by Dr. von Ihering of one which occurs in the 
kidney of Murex is noteworthy.* The new form has been called GraffiUa 
muricicola, and is easily perceptible in that organ by its reddish-brown 
coloration. It attains a length of about 5 millimeters, and is distin- 
guished by the development of a thick anterior and narrow tail-like 
posterior region, quite distinctly marked off from each other. But the 
most prominent characteristic of GraffiUa is the structure of the pharnyx; 
this is not provided with a special sac or pouch, and in this respect the 
new form is distinguished from all similar species, and is therefore made 
not only the type of a distinct family, but a distinct group of Rhabdocoda. 
These it is proposed to divide into (1) such as have a pharynx ( P/ia- 
ryngea), and (2) such as are deprived of a pharynx [Aiiharyngca). To 
the former group the Graffillid« belong; but, as already indicated, they 
are differentiated from all the other Pharyngea by the absence of a special 
pharyngeal j)ouch, and therefore stand in a section apart from the rest. 

Another j)arasitic Planarian has been found by Dr. Arnold Lang in 

* Iliering (H. vou). GraffiUa miiricicola, eiue parasitisclie Rhabdocoale. Zcittdir. 
f. JVins. ZooL, vol. xxsiv, pi). 147-174. 



348 ZOOLOGY. 

the foot of Tetliys* but at tlie same time it is conjectured that it does not 
reside there permanently. This form has not been named, but has been 
considered to be closely allied to GraffiUa muricicola. The pharynx was 
feebly developed and appeared to be destitute of a sheath. Xo peripheral 
nerves or special organs of sense or water- vessels were observed. The 
female organs were well developed; but in none of the specimens 
examined could the male organs be detected except in a rudimentary 
condition. 

THE GROUPS OF NEMEETEAN WORMS. 

The Nemertean worms have been examined with relation to their genera 
and systematic relations inter se by Dr. A. A. W. Hubrecht.t It is claimed 
that the genera proposed for the European forms must be reduced to four- 
teen. These are grouped, first, into two sections, one distinguished (HopJo- 
7iernertini) by the mouth being in front of the ganglia and the proboscis 
furnished with stylets, and the second {nameless) by the mouth situated 
behind the ganglia and the ])roboscis destitute of stylets. The latter are 
subdivided into (1) ScMzoiiemertini, distinguished by the development 
of a deep lateral fissure on both sides of the head; and (2) Palwonem- 
ertini, characterized by the absence of such fissures. The three groups 
so named are designated as ^^ suborders." 

The suborders are essentially the same as the three families generally 
admitted, and which are much better so designated than as suborders. 
The genera admitted are segregated under nine ftimilies, and are, for (1) 
the Hoplonemertini, Nemertes^ Oerstedia, ProsorhocJimuSy Tetrastemma, 
AmpJiiporuSj and JJrepanophorus ; in (2) the Schizonemertini, Langia, 
Cerebratulus, Borlasia, and Lineus, and in (3) the Pala?onemertini, 
Valencinia, Folia, Cephalothrix, and Carinella. (Condensed from J. R. 
M. 8.) 

The author seeks to determine the phylogeny of these forms, but 
the data apjDarently are not suflicient for such purpose. 

A PARASITIC NEMERTEAN. 

More than a century ago (in 1779) O. F. Miiller described a worm w^hich 
has, until lately, been regarded as being a kind of leech. This form 
has been named Malacohdella grossa, and the specimens occur parasitic 
in Cyprina Islandica. As indicated by the name, Malacohdella is charac- 
terized by a very soft body, and its width is nearly the same as the 
length, except in the region of the sucker ; its muscular system is charac- 
teristic ; the mouth is ])laced at the anterior end and is a transverse 
cleft ; the proboscis is white, and is destitute of any armature or si^ines ; 
the pharynx very white and visible through the transparent integument ; 
the intestine narrow and dark. On account of this union of characters 



* Laug (Arnold). Notiz liber einen neuen Farasiten der Tethys aus der AbtlieiluDg der 
rliabdocoel en Turbellaiien. Mittheil. Zool. Station Neapel, vol. ii, pp. 107-112. 

t Hubrecht (A. A.W.). The Genera of European Nemerteans critically revised, with 
descriptions of several new species. Notes Miis. Lci/dcn, No. iv, pj). 193-2^3. 



ZOOLOGY. 349 

by wbicli it contrasts with all the three previously recognized families, 
Yon Kennel has lately proposed to isolate it as the type of an inde- 
pendent one. This family {McdacoMelUdoc) is distinguished by "the 
dermo muscular layer arranged in an external, circular or an internal 
longitudinal layer ; the absence of spines to the proboscis ; the non- 
development of cephalic grooves or lateral organs; the intestine simple 
and forming several coils; the nerve-trunks free from the muscular 
system and united posteriorly by an anal commissure, and the develop- 
ment of a sucker at the posterior end." * 

CH.15T0GNATHA. 

RELATIONS OF THE Cn.T^TOGNATHA. 

A form that derives considerable interest from the speculations that 
have been entertained about it by the earlier naturalists, is the worm 
group known as Sagitta, and for which the order Chtetognatha has 
been instituted. An elaborate monograph of this order has been pub- 
lished by Dr. Hertwig during the past year, and he has especially inquired 
into the subject of its relationship with other types. + He recalls the 
investigations of Kowalevsky and the application by Huxley of the 
condition of the body cavity to taxonomy, and rehearses that in most 
animals this coelom is formed by a cleavage of the mesoblast (schizocoele), 
and that in others — as in the Echinoderms, Brachiopods, and Amphiox- 
us — the coelom is developed from outgrowths of the endoblast (enter- 
ocoele). It is the latter type that is manifested in the Oh?etognatha. 
The Chfetognatha are said to be most nearly related to the Nema- 
toids and Annelids, and the relations to the latter are claimed to be 
very remarkable. In both " the enteron is invested in a fibrous enteric 
layer, and is attached by mesenteries which completely divide the 
coelom into a right and left half. In both cases there are four bands of 
longitudinal muscular fibers, the cells of which are derived from the 
coelomatic surface. The two transverse septa of the Chaitognatha are 
comparable to the numerous transverse septa in the Annelids, while, 
lastly, in both groups the generative products are derived from cells of 
the parietal layer of the mesoderm." The olfactory organ is on the 
upper surface of the head near the eye and behind the supra-cesophageal 
ganglion, and is uniiaired and very simple in character. 

The nervous system is noteworthy, the chief ganglia and their nerves 
being embedded in the epidermis, while some smaller cephalic ganglia 
belong to the mesoderm; or, in other words, the nervous system is 
difterentiated into ectodermal and mesodermal parts. To the former 
there are two central organs, the supra-oesophageal and the ventral 
ganglia. In the latter are developed a lateral cephalic ganglion and 
two other small ganglia. 

*Keuuel (V.). Arheit. Zool. Zoot. Inst. Wiirzburg, vol. iv, p. 305, 1878. 
t Hertwig (0.). Die Chietoguatlieu. Studien zur Blatter thtoric, Heft ii, Jeua, 1880, 
6 pi. 



350 ZOOLOGY. 

The taxonomical deductions are that the Clifetognatha form a group 
characterized, by the "body consisting of three segments, separated, by 
septa and provided with horizontal fins; the head with prehensile 
hooks, spines, and a 'cap,' with two eyes, and an unpaired olfactory 
organ 5 ccelom spacious: the enterou has two mesenteries and opens 
in front of the aventerous caudal segment; four longitudinal muscular 
bands: nervous system consists of the ventral, the supra-oesophageal, 
and the lateral cephalic ganglia: trunk segment with two ovaries; 
caudal segment with two testes. — In this group are recognized two 
modifications of generic value, one {Sagitta) having an unpaired caudal 
and two pairs of lateral fins, including ten species, and the other 
{Spadella) with an unpaired caudal fin and one i)air of lateral fins, in- 
cluding three species. (Condensed from J. R. M. S., vol. iii, pp. 793-799.) 

PERIPATIDEA^^S. 

ON THE KELATIONS OF PERIPATUS. 

Until lately there has been no difficulty in trenchantly separating the 
arthropods from the vermiform articulates, but in Peripatus (a terres- 
trial worm-like animal of trojucal countries) we have a form that is at 
once to some extent intermediate between the two, and that breaks 
down the rigorous diagnoses of those great groups and forbids the neat- 
ness and precision of definition former!}- accorded to them. On the one 
hand Peripatus possesses quite a well-developed tracheal system and 
therein agrees with the terrestrial arthropods. On the other hand it 
agrees with the worms in that the segment at organs are in all essential 
respects like those of the Vermes and especially of the leeches, each organ 
consisting of a coiled glandular tube connected at one end with a short 
tube of somewhat different character, and probably opening into the 
body cavity, and at the other end dilating into a vesicle that debouches 
on the surface of the body at the base of the corresponding foot. Mr. 
Balfour has now called attention to a new feature in the economy of the 
animal which throws some light on its relation shijis.* There is a glan<l 
which has a duct opening into the mouth, and which is comparable with 
the salivary gland of the centipedes. (It has. generally been considered 
as a, " fat-body.") Now, salivary glands are distinctive of the Tiacheate 
Arthropods, and are not at all represented in the worms ; we have there- 
fore dn this structure of Peripatus another indication of its relationship 
with the Arthropods. By recent authors Peripatus had been disting- 
uished as the type of a i^rimary group under the name Protracheata, 
and the data thus indicated are worthy of attention in connection with 
its place in the system. 

* Balfour (F. M.) on certain points in the Anatomy of Periiiatus Capeusis. Proc. 
Cambridge Phil. Soc, vol. iii, p. 6, 1879. 



ZOOLOGY. 351 

MEROSTOMES OU PAL^EOCARIDS. 

THE EYES OF THE HORSESHOE CRABS AND TRILOBITES.* 

Professor Packard lias investigated the structure of the eyes of the horse- 
shoe crab, and, in connection therewith, that of the corresponding- organ 
of the Trilobites. In the eye of the horseshoe crab {LimnJus) the cor- 
nea is developed as " a thinned portion of the integument" ; on each side 
are "nutrient" or pore canals, which are filled with connective tissue, 
extending into the integument from the body cavity. Apposed to the 
transparent cornea, and arranged in quincuncial order, are series of solid 
conical lenses, of which the conical ends project inwards and are partly 
buried in the black retina. " The long slender optic nerve, just before 
reaching the eye, subdivides, sending a branch to each facet or cornea 
impinging on the lens." As this is a unique condition of the eyes in 
living articulates, it was an interesting liroblem to discover whether the 
aflinities of the Trilobites with Limiduii was manifested in this as in other 
respects. Casts and natural sections of Asa^ilnis (jigas especially were 
examined, and when the concave or interior surface was placed under a 
magnifying power of oO diameters, the entire surface was seen to be 
rough, with the ends of the minute solid conic corneal lenses which pro- 
jected into the body cavity. "This is exactly comparable with the cast 
.shell of Hmulns and its solid corneal lenses which project into the body 

cavity." 

CRUSTACEANS. 

ABORTED DEVELOPMENT IN CRUSTACEANS. 

It has long been recognized that while forms inhal>iting the sea pass 
through several stages of metamorphoses, species quite closely related, 
living in fresh water, do not exhibit similar stages in their development. 
The forms that so deviate from the general manifestations in the class 
are always of interest, and Dr. Fritz Midler lias examined from this 
point of view several Brazilian decapod crustaceans.! He found that 
Trichodactylns and Aeglea Odehrechtii failed to pass through the regular 
crustacean metamorphosis, and that the female of Palamon potiuna pro- 
duces only C to 20 large eggs, and from these the young emerge with 
the superficial characteristics of the adults, whose complete form they 
assume at the fourth change of skin. But what is still more noteworthy 
is that v^hWellippolgfcpoIaris passes through a shortened phase of devel- 
opment, on the other hand a Brazilian Eippohjte^ closely related to that 
species, was ascertained to emerge from the e^g as a zocea. Several 
fresh-water shrimi)s also found at the mouth of the Itnjahy River — a 
Leander, a Falccmon, and one of the Atyimc — also come from the egg as 
zooese. 

* Packard, jr. (A. S.)- The Structure of the Eye of Trilobites. Am. Xat., vol. cxiv, 
pp. .50:5-508, .July, 1880. 

tMiiller (Fritz). Pala^mon potiuna ; ein Beispiel abgekiirtzer Verhaudlung. /lool. 
Anz., vol. iii, pj). 152-157 (223). 



352 ZOOLOGY 

INSECTS. 

SCOLOPENDRELLA, THE TYPE OF A NEW ORDER OF MYRIOPODS. 

The genus Scolopendrella has recently been re-examined by Mr. John 
A. Ryder,* and he has found some remarkable peculiarities in its organi- 
zation, which, in his opinion, entitle it to be differentiated as the repre- 
sentative of a distinct order of Myriopods. The characteristics, accord- 
ing to Mr. Eyder, "indicate as much affinity with insects as with myri- 
opods, and may, indeed, be looked upon, perhaps, as representing the 
last survival of the form from which insects may be supposed to have 
descended." The head is essentially like that of a true insect, and the 
epicranial pieces are distinguished by well-marked suture from the 
labrum. Tlie labrum and labium are both well defined ; mandibles and 
maxillae are developed, as well as, ajjparently, a ligula. The antennae 
have numerous (14 to 28) articulations. The body proper has thirteen 
segments. The legs (in number 12 or less) are five-jointed, and each 
terminated by a pair of claws, as in the typical insects, and at the 
bases of each pair, except the first, are attached simple hairy append- 
ages. The genital orifice is on the ventral side, in the third or fourth 
body segment, in both sexes. The tracheal system is represented by a 
series of simple tubular arches, without a spiral filament, arising from 
openings on the ventral surface inside the base of the legs. Of this 
combination of characteristics not the least noteworthy are the biun- 
guiculate legs, and their nearly complete correspondence in number 
with the rudimentary abdominal and functional thoracic limbs of the 
Thysanura, especially Machelis and Lepisma, which have also basal ap- 
pendages to the legs ; it is these characteristics that point to the affinity 
with Insects almost as intimate as that with the Myriopods. The order 
thus distinguished has been named Sympliyla^ in reference to the singu- 
lar combination of characters presented. It may be added that this 
order has already been adopted by a special student of the Myriopods, 
Latzel having accepted it in his lately publislied work on the Myrio- 
pods of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Whether it will be hereafter 
associated most intimately with the typical Myriopods or Insects, re- 
mains to be seen; but it is at any rate certain now that these two types 
cannot be retained as full classes. 

INSECTS INJURIOUS TO BOOKS. 

The question of injuries incurred by books from the attacks of insects 
has been examined into by Dr. Hagen,t and Professor Westwcod. Eepre- 
sentatives of not less than six orders of Arthropods are more or less in- 
jurious. 

Among the mites is the common Cheyletus eruditus, which attacks 
jiaper in damp iilaces. 

* Ryder (Johu). Scolopendrella as tlie type of a new order of Articulates. Ain. 
Nat., vol. xiv, pp. 375, 376. 

tHageu (H.). Attacks of Insects on Books. Jour. Eoxj. Micr. Soc, vol. iii, p. 422. 



ZOOLOGY. 353 

Among {lie Thysauura, the Lepisma f,acchariua, wliicii is found in 
closets, &c., where provisions are kei)t, feeds also on i)aper, but leuA'es 
untouched that which is covered by printing-ink. Tliis species was not 
known till lately to be at all injurious to paper or books. 

Of the iS'euro])tera, the termites are injurious to paper and books as 
well as to many other substances. 

Of the Orthoptera, as is well known, the cockroaches (Blattidaj) 
frequently commit considerable ravages. 

Of the Lepidoptera the caterpillars of Aglossa pinguinalis and Beprcs- 
saria frequently do damage by spinning their webs between the vol- 
umes, and also by gnawing the paper with which they form their cocoons. 

Among the beetles are several species. The HypotUenemus eru(Utu8, 
a very minute species, excavates tiny burrows within tbe binding. The 
death-watches {Anohium pertinax and Anohium striatum) surpass iu 
their ravages all other species, guawiug and boring not only through 
the pages of the volumes, but also through the binding. One instance 
is recorded where 27 folio volumes, placed together on a shelf, had been 
so completely drilled, that a string might be run through the hole made. 

As an antidote to and preventive of the attacks of these insects, 
vaporization is suggested. The infected volumes may be placed in a 
large glass case made as close as possible, and therein likewise may be 
set small saucers containing benzine, or a sponge saturated with carbolic 
acid. "A strong infusion of colocynth and quassia, chloroform, spirits 
of turpentine, expressed juice of green w^alnuts, and pyroligneous acid 
have also been employed successfully. Fumigation on a large scale may 
also be adopted, by filling the room with fumes of brimstone, prussic acid, 
or benzine ; or an infected volume may be placed under the bell-glass 
of an air-jjump, and extracting the air, the lar^a; will be found to be 
killed after an hour's exhaustion." * 

DESTRUCTION OF INSECTS BY FUNGI. 

It may be recalled that at the Portland (1873) meeting of the Ameri- 
can Association for the Advancement of Science, Dr. Le Coute suggested 
that an efiScient mode of checking the devastations of the insects injuri- 
ous to agriculture might be the "pi'oduction of diseases" from parasitic 
fungous growths. He mentioned, without particularizing, " an instance 
in which from the communication of the disease by some silk-worms, the 
whole of the cateriDillars in a nine-acre piece of woods were destroyed." 
The same proposition has been entertained and advocated by various 
other writers, for example, Ilagen, Bail, &c. 

Experiments have been made upon various forms, and lately on potato- 
beetles. Those inoculated with the fungous disease died in from eight 
to twelve days, while others in the same room, but which were not so 

*Hagen(lI.). Schiidlichc lusecteu dnrcli cleu Hefeupilz zu toclter. Zool. Atiz., vol. 
iii, p. 185. — The Destructiou of luaect iiestsLy applicatiou of yeast. Nature, vol. xxi, 
p. 611. 

S. Mis. 31 23 



354 ZOOLOGY. 

treated, lived tbrougli the winter. Plant-lice wereliillei. in a liot bouse 
by similar means. Dr. Hagen tlieretore contends against Professor 
Metschnikoli', that fungous inoculation can be applied to practical uses, 
•^•id that it will not be necessary to wait till the scientific meaning of the 
phenomena involved is understood; he thinks that the plan has already 
been successful in practice, althongh further experiments should be 
made before any positive decision can be arrived at. 

THE GLOWWORMS AND THEIR rnOSPHORESCENCE. 

Tlie structure of the Lampyridoe and their phosphorescent character- 
istics have been examined by Ilev. II. S. Goiham.* The conclus^ion is 
reached that '' the sexual instinct has played a large part in molding 
the external structure of this group of beetles, and that it is to that we 
must look for an adequate explanation of the develoi)ment of phos- 
j)h()rescent light, though not perhaps for its origin." The cases in which 
both of the sexes have wings, and both exhibit also phosphorescent 
finalities, form the larger proportion among existing species. It is con- 
tended that in this condition the emission of light would l)e useful in 
the sittraction of the respective sexes and bring them together in swarms. 
Those species, however, whi<*h are regarded as being the most t3j)ical 
of the family and in which the parts are more specialized, are such forms 
as Lamprocera and Cladodes. In these types the phosphorescent faculty 
has not been developed in the same x)roportion as the organs generally, 
and the eyes, for example, are ^'reduced in a direct ratio with the light" 
whenever the antennae are enlarged in inverse ratio to the diminution of 
the phosphorescence. Whether the eyes develop at the exi)ense of the 
anteniue, and are, so to speak, the receptacle of all the vital forces of 
the head, or whether the antenuic supi>lement the loss of the other 
organs of sense, and arc useful in detecting the presence of the female, 
only one fact is in evidence, Avhich is that theidumosityof the anteniue, 
in one case, and the encn^mous development of the eye, in the other, are 
usually sexual characters predominating in the male, but sometimes 
found in both sexes. Mr. Gorham has found that selected sj)ecies of 
Lamp>'ridai may be grouped under three categories, viz : 

1. Species with plumose antenna?, small or moderate eyes, both sexes 
winged, light-emitting surface confined to one or more small si)ots : 
Lamprocera, Cladodes, Vesta, Lueidora, ThctnoJis, and McgaJophthahnus. 

3. S])ecies in which both sexes are winged; light emitted consider- 
able, sometimes greater in the 9 ; eyes large, sometimes excessive; 
antenuje simple, usually filitbrm : Cratomorplins, Lucernula, Aspidasoma, 
Luc'wla, and Pltoturis. 

3. Species in which the female is apterous, or with rudimentary wings; 
light emitted often very great in the female, and often only rudiment- 



* Gorliani (H. S.)- On tlic strnctiire of tlie Lanipyrid;s, with reference tc their i)hos- 
phorescence. Trans. Entomolo(jical Soc, London, 1880. pp. 03-07. 



ZOOLOGY. 355 

aiy traces of it in the male; antenna^ usually riulimentary; eyes large 
ill the male, often excessively so, occupying nearly the whole head: 
Pleotomus, Lamproplioruft, Mierophotm^ LampyriSj and Lamprorhiza. 
(Condensed from J. E. 21. S., vol. iii, pp. 777-770.) 

POLYZOANS. 

RELATIONS OF. THE POLYZOANS. 

The Polyzoans form a type which, in the early days of zoology, was 
regarded as a class of the radiate animals. Subsequently Milne Ed- 
wards and others agreed that the type w^as most closely related to the 
Brachiopods, and subsequent investigation of the embryology of the 
two types confirmed this view. The question afterward came up as to 
the relationship of both these types to others. Until quite recently 
it was disputed by no one that the Brachiopods were true mollusks, l:)ut 
when anatomical and morphological investigations had revealed so 
many differences they were dissociated from the typical mollusks and 
segregated with the Tunicates under the name Molluscoidea. Later 
Morse claimed that the two classes in question were more closely related 
to the worms than to the mollusks. Professor Allman has recently 
reviewed the condition of our knowledge of the endoproctal Polyzoa,* 
and confesses that while he still supports the molhiscan relationships of 
the type, he was nevertheless obliged to confess that there were features 
in which it closely approximated the worms. Among the most signifi- 
cant of these is the existence of a pair of symmetrically placed gland- 
like organs w^hich open on the surface of the body in Loxosoma, and 
remind one of the segmental organs of the w^orms. In 187- Professor 
Nitzsch proposed to differentiate the Polyzoans into two groups, dis- 
tinguished by the opening of the anal cavity in one case oirtside of the 
tentacular crown, and in the other case within the same. The former 
group was named Ectoprocta and included almost all the known forms. 
The latter group was named Enrloprocta, and was at first framed spe- 
cially for Fcdicllltna, but subsequently it was ascertained that not only 
PediciUina but Urnatella and Loxosoma also exhibited the same char- 
acteristic ; and Professor Busk has lately made known a curious form, 
to which he has given the name Ascopodaria, found in the voyage of 
the Challenger in deep water. It is the Eiidoprocta.^ according to Pro- 
fessor Allman, that exhibit the closest connection with the vermes. 
Loxosoma, it may be added, is a. parasite of Gephyreaus, and attaches 
itself so firmly to the host that before Loxosoma had been described Mr. 
A. M. Norman w^as led thereby to attribute its crown to a Gephyrean as 
tentacular appendages of the tail of that worm. 



* Allman (G. J.)- Some recent additions to our knowledge of the structure of the 
Marine Polyzoa. Jour. Liitn. Soc. ZooL, vol. xv, pp. 1-8. 



356 ZOOLOGY. 

BRACHIOPODS. 

KANGE IN DEPTH OF LIVING BRACHIOPODS. 

Mr. Thomas Davidson has examiaed the collection of Brachiopods 
secured by H. M. S. ClialleDger, and in connection therewith has enu- 
merated all the existing- species of the class.* It was thought that 
many novel forms would be obtained by the dredge from the depths of 
the sea, but this anticipation has not been realized. Very few new 
species were found during the voyage of the Challenger, and noue rep- 
resenting genera that had not before been known from representatives 
living in waters of less depth. One hundred and thirty-six living spe- 
cies or sub-species are recognized by Mr. Davidson, 125 so-termed "spe- 
cies," and 11 "named varieties"; but, it is added by Mr. Davidson, the 
number " will certainly have to be hereafter reduced." Kot more than 
31 species were obtained by the Challenger expedition, and out of 3(31 
stations at which dredgings were made Brachiopoda " were brought up 
38 or 39 times only." The circumstances respecting the discovery of 107 
of the recognized named forms have been ascertained, while "nothing is 
known respecting the ranges of dejjths of some 25 or 2G so-called spe- 
cies." Of the 107 species (or 'named varieties) some 57, or about half 
the known species, were dredged at a depth of under 100 fathoms ; 20 to 
25 at low- water mark, or from 5 to 10 fathoms ; and the remainder at 
about 50 or 60 fathoms," or, to be more detiuite, the status of our infor- 
mation may be given in the following table: 

Species. 
From shore to 500 fathoms some 98 

or named varieties ; 12 of these range up to 100 fathoms or less. 
From 501 to 1,000 ftithoms 16 

Of these only one, Disceria Atlantica, would range from 690 to 
2,400 fathoms. 
Erom 1,001 to 1,500 fathoms 6 

Of these Terebratula wyvilUi ranges from 1,035 to 2,900 fathoms, 
the greatest depth at which any species has been found. 

From 1,501 to 2,000 ftithoms 4 

From 2,001 to 2,900 3 

Mr. Davidson concludes that " these facts indicate that the greater 
bulk of known species live at comparatively small or moderate depths, 
few in depths ranging up to 500 fathoms, and that Brachiopoda are 
specitically rare at depths varying from 500 to 2,900 fathoms. 

It is to be regretted that Mr. Davidson still clings to the names Clis- 
tenterata and Tretenterata when exactly the same groups with the same 
limits, and the same essential diagnoses, had received each several names 
long before. If any objections are urged against those previous names, 

* Davidson (Thomas). Eex)ort ou the Scientific Results of the Voyage of H. M. S. 
Challenger, during the years 1S73-'7G. Zoology, vol. i, part 1. Report on the Brach- 
ioiiods. Printed by order of Her Majesty's Government, Loudon, 1880. 



ZOOLOGY. 357 

analogous objections can readily be devised against those adopted, and 
there is nothing easier than to de\'1se objections when the mood impels 
to seek for new names. 

ANCIENT LINGrULID^. 

In the early days of Palaeontology the name Lbujula was applied as 
the generic designation of numerous species certainly related to the 
living representatives of that genus but distinct in many respects. Of 
late years, however, as is remarked by Mr. Whitfield,* "it has been 
supposed by many that the Brachiopodous genus Lingida, as represented 
by Lingula anatina Lamarck, a living species, was not represented 
among the fossil Lingulidae of the older Paleozoic formations, if any- 
where in rocks of paleozoic age ; and there has been a growing tend- 
ency to class all Linguloid shells of 'these formations under other 
names." While this is admitted to be correct in the main, by Mr. Whit- 
field, he thinks that he has proof of a form congeneric with or at least 
closely related to the modern species, in shells obtained from the Tren- 
ton limestones of Wisconsin and Minnesota. He has carefully studied 
the muscular and vascular scars of the shell as copied in their internal 
casts, and thinks that "these markings correspond more nearly to those 
of L. anatina Lamarck, than do those of any other Silurian or Devonian 
species" which he ever examined, and, "although they do not exactly 
correspond, still are as similar as one could expect in widely separated 
species. The variations consist in the position of the various muscular 
scars, and also somewhat in the lines of the pallial sinuses and in the 
ramifications of their branches." Without going into detail it is enough 
to remark that there certainly seems to be considerable superficial 
resemblance between the form thus signalized and the living represent- 
atives of the family. Nevertheless the homologies are t\ir from being 
as close as those which prevail in all the living forms, and which, not- 
withstanding, have been difierentiated under two distinct genera, 
Lingula and GJottldia. In view of the great antiquity of the type, 
however, even the resemblance, though not very close, is noteworthy. 
W^hether the resemblance- is a generic one (using the word "generic" in 
the restricted signification) is doubtful. 

GASTROPODS. 

A NEW TYPE OF MOLLUSKS. 

A most singular type of Mollusks, and one finding no place in the 
current works on conchology, is the genus Neomenia of Tullberg [Solcno- 
piis D. »& K.). This is the representative of not only a distinct tliinily 
(Xeomeniidie) but of a group which stands so lar apart from all others 

* Whitfield. (R. P.). On tlie occurrence of the true Lingula in the Trenton Liiue- 
stones. Am. Jour. Science (3), vol. xix, pp. 472-475. 



358 ZOOLOGY. 

as to leave even its relationshix) a matter of discussion. G. O. Sars (lis. 
tiuguishes it as a group (Telobrauchiata) of the Opisthobrancliiates, 
co-ordinate with the Tectibranchiata and Nudibrauchiata. H, von 
Ihering differentiates it as a class of "Vermes — Phylum Amphineura," 
the Chitons forming another class. E. Eay Lankester isolates it still 
further, considering it as representing not only a class (Scolecomorphal 
but a primary group (Lipoglossa) of MoUusks having no affinity to the 
Chitons. A new form of this grouj), exhibiting characters, too, deemed 
wanting in the type, must be of unusual interest. Such is the species 
made known as Proneomenia tSJuiteri* Like Neomenia, Froneomenia is 
worm-like and subcylindrical, but unlike that form it is provided with a 
distinct though small radula. Two specimens of the species were 
dredged by Dr. Sluiter in the Barent Sea. 

REGENERATION OF PARTS IN GASTROPODS. 

Long ago Spallanzari and afterwards Schiiffer experimented upon the 
regeneration of parts in snails, but this subject has since been much 
neglected. Recently Mr. Justus Carriere has reinvestigated the ques- 
tion t, and has found, like his predecessors, that the tentacles, with the 
eyes and the labial processes in the gastropods, can be comi)letely 
regenerated. On the other hand, when the pharynx or supra-oesopha- 
geal ganglion is cut out death ensues. Mr. Carriere took all precau- 
tions in his investigations, and all the conditions to insure accuracy 
Avere fulfilled, that is, with respect to the health of the animal, the 
parts removed, &c., for a different result would ensue if the animal was 
taken when its energy was concentrated in the formation of generative 
products, and it was therefore found that a season of rest, as at the 
begiuning of summer, or the autumn season, was the most satisfactory 
time. The individuals experimented upon represented common Euro- 
pean species of Helix. Those that gave the most satisfactory result 
were Helix nemoralis and H. hortensis; H. pomatia was more sensitive, 
and H. arhustarum and H. fruticum the least capable of rei>roduction of 
parts. 

In the case of the eye it was ascertained thflt the method of regener- 
ation was analogous to that of the first formation of the organ. There 
was an invagination of the epithelium, the formation of a closed vesicle, 
and the primitive cylindrical cells became partly converted into corneal 
(jells, and i)artly into rods and cones. The time reipiired for this re- 
generation was fifty or sixty days. 

Experiments were also instituted with respect to the aquatic pulmon- 
ates, but the results were less satisfactory on account of their liability 
to attack by fungus in the wounds. 

*Hn))reclit (A. A. W. )• Proneomenia SluUeri gexi. et sp. u., eine neue arcliaische Mol- 
Inskciiforra aiifj dein Eisraecr. Zool. Avzeh/er, iii Jalirg., pp. 589-590, 29 Nov., 18S0. 

t Carriere (J.). Ueber die Regeneration bei deu Laud-Pulmonateu. Tayhlatt der 52 
Vers, dcutsch. Xuturf., pp. 225, 22(3. 1879. 



ZOOLOGY. 359 

GASTROPTERON AND ITS RELATIONS. 

A remarkable form of gastropod mollusk, which was at one time su])- 
])osed to be a Pteropod, has now been well ascertained to be a Tec.ti- 
branchiate and most closely related to the Bnllidea. In general form it 
has, in fact, considerable resemblance to a Pteropod, and the shell is so 
small and immersed that it was not detected until Krohn found it in 
ISliO. The shell resembles somewhat that of a Carinaria in form, and is 
quite translucent: it is found in the hepatic region near and somewhat 
behind, but a little to the right side of, the anus. 

Mr. Vayssiere has investigated the anatomy of this form, and has 
reached, in respect to its relation, some conclusions dilfering from his 
predecessors.* He regards Gastropterori as the type of one of two major 
groups, into which he would divide the Bullidea, most of the forms of 
that type constituting the second group. 

In this first group represented by Gastropteron the parapodia are 
largely developed : a small nautiloid shell is contained within the 
mantle; and the (esophageal collar is constituted by a pair of cerebral 
ganglia, a i)air of pedal ones, and six visceral ones; the visceral ganglia 
are distributed in equal number, three to the right and three to the left. 

In the second division the parapodia are rudimentary ; the shell well 
developed.and generally external; and there are only three visceral 
ganglia, two of which are on the right and one on the left side. 

It is observed also that Avhile in Gastropteron the genital nerve arises 
directly from the counnissure without the intermediation of any gan- 
glionic enlargement, in the other forms the corresponding nerve always 
arises from the larger of the two left ^'isceral ganglia. 

LIVING PLEUROTOMAEIIDS. 

Among the most interesting of the mollusks is the genus Phuroto- 
maria. This genus was for a long time sui)posed to have become entirely 
extinct, but in 1850 a species was discovered at the island of Guade- 
loupe and named by Pischerand UernardiP/t'«ro/ow<(r/« (Juoi/ana, Sub- 
sequently a specimen of a second species was also obtained and described 
under the name of Fleurotomaria Adansoniana in 1801. In 1880 further 
information respecting the development of the genus Avas obtained. A 
second i^\)Qxt,h\ie\iof Fleurotomaria Adansoniana (1>1 millimeters wide) was 
found in the " grand cul de sac de la Point-a-Pitre," Guadeloupe, at a 
dei)th of 150 fathoms, and two new species were obtained in the Eastern 
seas. One has been descril)ed by Hilgeudorf as I'leurotomaria Beyriehii, 
Irom a specimen obtained in Jajiau. Another has been made known as 
Fleurotomaria Rumpfii by Schei)man, and the specimen on which it was 
based (a very large one, having a maximum diameter of 190 millimeters) 
way found in a collection of shells from the Molucca Islands belongiug 

* Vayssiere. Eechercbes iinatomiiiiies sur les moUubiiues dc lii lamille des BuUides. 
Ann. So. Nat., Zool., (0,) vol. ix, No. 1 (G4 i>p., 3 pi.). 



360 ZOOLOGY. 

to the Zoological Garden of Rotterdam. It is noteworthy that these 
species represent two sections of the genus, one of the sijecies of Gua- 
deloupe (P. Qnoyana) and one of the eastern (P. Beyrichii) having no 
umbilicus, while the other two, Pleurotomaria Adansoniana and P. 
Bumpfii are deeply umbilicated. The soft parts of Fleurotomaria are 
still unknown, although we may hope that our acquaintance with a form 
so interesting may not be much longer deferred, inasmuch as a living 
specimen of P. Quoyana was obtained by Professor Agassiz off the island 
of Barbados (at a depth of 120 fathoms), and is now in the Museum of 
Comparative Anatomy at Cambridge. (See Hilgendorf in Sitzungs- 
berichte der Gesellschaft Naturf. Freunde zu Berlin, 1879, p. 72; Schep- 
MAN in Tijdschrift Nederl. Dierkund. Vereen., vol. iv, 1879, p. 162; 
Crosse & Fisher in Journal Couchyliologie, (3,) vol. xx, i^p. 203, 
284, 1880.) 

DENTITION OF MARGINELLOID MOLLUSKS. 

The contour and development of the shell of Marginella is quite char- 
acteristic, but nevertheless there are now known four distinct types of 
dentition represented by forms jwssessiug decidedly similar shells, and 
if the Eratoinaj are considered, we have a fifth. 

(1.) As is generally known, most of the species have a single central 
tooth (o — 1 — o) with a narrow base, and this has been regarded as 
being one of the distinctive marks of the family Marginellidw. 

(2.) A similar form, however, was shown a number of years ago, by 
Stimpson, to have a single row of teeth peculiarly modified, resembling 
those of theMuricinae, being thick, strong, and armed with many (7) den- 
ticles, and was therefore differentiated by him as the type of a peculiar 
fiimily — Cystiscidw. 

(3.) Towards the end of the year 1880 a third type was found to be 
represented by what has been called Pseudomarginella UptopuSj and what 
has been also by some (but erroneously) identified with the '■'■Marginella 
glabella,''^ of Eastern Africa. Shells with their animals were sent from 
Senegambia, and the species was ascertained to have the teeth arranged 
in three long longitudinal rows, (1 — 1 — 1), and their form very similar 
to that of the Buccinids, the lateral teeth being broad and armed with 
three cusps. 

(4.) A fourth marginelliform type has also teeth in three series 
(1 — 1 — 1), but the lateral teeth are slender and claw-like. The species 
representing this has been described by Carriere as new under the 
name Pseudomarginella 2)laty pus, and thus sj^stematically arranged with 
the preceding, with which it is geographically associated. The difference 
in dentition is, however, generally regarded as of family value. 

(5.) Still another marginelloid type, although much more diiferen- 
tiated than any of the others, is represented by Erato, which is now 
generally regarded as a true member of the family of C^yprieidi^e or Tri- 
viidte. 



ZOOLOGY. obL 

The manifestation of such different types of dentition by forms hav- 
ing the same kind of shell will render a re-examination of the othei 
parts of the animal necessary before it can be definitely accepted whether 
they are distantly related, as the current views respecting the value oi 
dentition would imply, or whether they are closely connected, as the like- 
ness of their shells would suggest. In this connection we may refer to 
the similarity of the shells of the Mitridie and Turritida). While it is 
not safe to assume that the animals so distinguished are closely related 
on account of the similarity of their shells, there is enough at least to 
challenge doubt, which can only be settled by further investigations. 
(See Crosse & Fischer in Journ. Conchyliologie (3,) vol. xx, p. 375, 
1880; and Justus Carriers (Die Gattung Pseudomargiuella v. 
Maltzan), in Zool. Anz., vol. iii, pp. G37-G41, 27 Bee, 1880.) 

CBPHALOPODS. 

the arms and siphon of cephalopods. 

A number of attempts have been made to homologize the arms and 
siphon of the cephalopods with the structures of the gastropods, but 
the identifications have not been entirely satisfactory. Professor Loven, 
as early as 1818, regarded the (;ephalopod arms as a persistent 
velum. Professor Huxley considered that they represented the gastro- 
pod foot, and the siphon was regarded as answering to the epipodial folds 
of the embryonic gastropod. Dr. Greuacher, however, showed that the 
foot of the gastropod is an unpaired structure, and therefore could not be 
homologous with the arms, which develop hi pairs, and, like Loven, he 
considered that the arms represent a modified velum ; the foot was 
deemed to be entirely wanting, while the siphon was regarded as the 
representative of the epipodium. Dr. Yon Ihering contended that the 
arms are tentacular appendages to the body, and that they hav^ no 
ecpiivaleut in the gastropods. The innervation of the siphon from the 
pedal ganglion led hini to identify the siphon as the foot, and he urged 
that the valve of the siphon is a true foot or protopodium, and the two 
lateral folds pteropodia. 

In 1879 Mr. J. I. Blake entered upon a comparison of the cephalopod 
and gastropod structures with reference to their relation to the nervous 
ganglia and the flexure of the intestine.* Premising that the ciliated 
bands constituting the velum had been shown to be traceable "from one 
class to another — sometimes in the larva only, and sometimes as an 
adult organ " — he concludes as follows : "In the primitive condition they 
formed a circle around the cesophagus, and as often as not are thrown 
out into long processes ; with a change in the direction of the intestine 
their uniformity is broken and part dies away, while the other part is 
left, forming a circle surrounding, not the oesophagus, but a portion of 
the body on one side of it, the foot being on the other. Since, then, in the 
gastropoda the intestine turns to the cerebral side, we have the " velum " 

* Blake (J. F.). On the Homologies of the Cephalopoda. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 
(5,) vol. iv, pp. 303-312. 



362 ZOOLOGY. 

formed on that side; whereas in the cephalopoda, the flexure being on 
the oi^posite side, we have what we may call the ant I- velum on the pedal 
side. Thus the arms are homologous to the opposite portion of the 
architroch to that which forms a velum, and merely afibrd another in- 
stance iu which these primitive formations are retained as functional 
organs. Moreover, from within the circle of the embryonic velum rise 
up in souie gastropods two loug retractile tentacles in like manner 
from within the later-formed circle of the anti-velum rise up the two 
retractile tentacles of the decapods." The funnel is conceded to be 
homologous with the cpipodium, and the valve in the funnel it is sug- 
gested "may represent" the foot, although this "must be doubtfid." 

Dr. Brooks has also treated of the same questions, and studied 
the development of the common squid {Loligo Fealli).* lie recalls 
that the molluscan foot is an unpaired structure on the ventral surfa(!e 
of the body between the mouth and the anus ; that in the embryo a large 
sinus space separates the integument of the foot from the endoderm and 
its derivatives ; and that this space contains blood corpuscles ; that the 
embryonic foot, in fact, is a circulatory organ. The yolk sack of the 
cephaloi)od is separated from the yolk by a corresponding sinus space, 
and as the integument is rhythmically the duid whicli fills this space is 
kept in constant motion. Physiologically then, as well as in its posi- 
tion, the yolk sack of the squid resembles the foot of the gastropod, and 
consequently it is contended that we find in it the homologue of the foot. 
He concludes that as a locomotor organ the foot of the cephalopod has 
been suppressed by the great development of a food-yolk at the point 
where it should have been found." As to the siphon, this originates as 
two pairs of folds of the integument of the lateral walls of the body, ^nd 
if we regard these four folds as homologous with the epipodial folds of 
a gastropod, the arms must be regarded as independently acquired 
structures. It is finally inferred that neither the exact equivalent of the 
arms nor of the siphon is found in the gastropods, but that these parts 
of the cephalopods have originated from a very generalized condition 
'and become developed as specialized organs peculiar to the class; con- 
versely, the foot of the gastropods is represented by no specialized struct- 
ure iu the cephalopods. 

COMPARATIVE STRUCTUEES OF THE TETRABRANCHIATE AND 
DIBRANCHIATE CEniALOPODS. 

As a part of his studies on the "homologies of the cephalopoda," ^Iv. 
Blake has examined into the structures which seem to correspond in the 
nautiloids and cuttle-fishes. The tetrabrauchiates are undeniably a 
more primitive and generalized type than thedibranchiates, and in their 
adult condition exhibit characteristics which are transitory in the other. 
Thus (1) in the nautilus the funnel is divided, and so it is in the embryo 

* Brooks (W. Iv.). lioinology of the Cephalopod >Sipliou aud Arms. Am. Jour. Sci. 
(3), vol. XX, pp. 288-291 ; also, The Developmeut of the Squid Loligo IValii (Lescreur) 
Anniv. Mem. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 



ZOOLOGY. 363 

cuttle-tisli, bur in the old it is a single tube ; (2) in nautilus the eye is a 
simple cavity opening externally by a minute aperture, as is the ease in 
the embryo cuttle ; (.■») in nautilus the auditory organs are close beneath 
the eyes, and so they are in the embryonic cuttle, but in the mature 
dibranchiates they have api)roximated on the ventral side; (1) in nau- 
tilus the tentacular and labial processes are more or less llattened and 
lie one within the other, and in analogous manner in the dibranchiates 
the arms rise as broad Hat processes, one pair within the others. Mr. 
Blake contends (with Valenciennes) that the ])roc(;sses (six or eight) 
from which the tentacles originate in nautilus are honudogous witli the 
arms of the cuttle-hshes, aiul that the tentacles are homologous with the 
suckers. The aptychus-bearing "hood" of the nautilus may be homolo- 
gous either with the anterior port of arms of the dibranchiates (the ar- 
gonaut thereby secretes its shell) or Avith the "neck-plates" just behind 
the eyes and in front of the "bone" of iScpia, or the generalized basis 
of both ; but this the embryology of nautilus must determine. The shell 
of nautilus it is tliought may be represented in the dibranchiates by 
the shell of Spiniltr, the phragmacone of a Belemnite, and the macro of 
a Sei)ia-bone. The ink-bag which is deviOoped late in the embryological 
history of the cuttle-iishes does not exist at all in nautilus. 

THE OEPIIALOPODS OF EASTERN NORTU AMERICA.* 

In the earlier works upon the molhisks of the eastern coast of North 
America only three or four si)ecies were rec()rde<l, and until within the 
last few years that coast was supposed to have lew inhabitants rei)re- 
senting that class. Since the institution of the labors of the Fish Com- 
mission, however, a number of new forms have been made known, and 
some of them represent new genera. Among the most noteworthy are 
species of gigantic cuttle-flsh, of which quite a large number of speci- 
mens have now been dis(!overed in various places on the Great Banks, 
and around or near the island of Newfoundland. The following are 
all the si)ecies that have been made known as inhabitants of the north- 
eastern coast of the United States to the end of 1880. 

Decapods. 
Architeuthis princeps Y. Eossia Ilyatti V. 

Harveyi V. subUvvis V. 

iStheiwteutkis meyaptera V. Sepiola leueoptera V. 

Ommastrephis illicebrosa (Les.) V. Logllo Fealei (Les.) V. 
Taoniiis pavo (Les.) Steenstrup. pallida V. 

hyperboreus ISteenstrup. Farasira eatenulata (Fer.) Steeu- 

HisfioteutJiis CoUinsii V. strup. 

Callilcuthis reversa V. Heterofeutkis tenera V. 



* Veriill (A. E.). Synopsis of tlio Ccpli.ilopoda of the iiortliciisteru coast of America ; 
liiicf Contributions to Zoology from the Museum- of Yale College. No. XLVi. With 
plates XII to XVI. Am. Journ. Science, {'^), \ci\. xix, pj). 28l-il)."). Also, noliceof the 
remarkable Marino Fauna occupying the outer lianks of the southern coast of New 
England. Am Journ. Science, {'.i,) vol. xx, pjj. :J90-4U3, 



364 ZOOLOGY. 

OCTOPODS. 

Octopus Bairdii V. Octopus lentiis V. 

piscatorum Y. Stauroteuthis syriensis Y. 

ohesus Y. Alloposxis mollis Y. 

YEETEBRATES. 

NOIMENCLATURE OF LIMB SEGMENTS. 

lu connection witli an article on the Ichtliyosanrian Sauranouou (snb- 
seqiiently renamed Baptanoclou),* Professor Marsh has proposed a new 
nomenclature for "the corresponding segments alike of the anterior 
and posterior limbs of the air breatliing vertibrates." liecallmg that 
the terms "phalanges" and "metapodials" had already been applied 
and obtained general currency for the distal segments, he proposed to 
complete the nomenclature as follows : 

Anterior. Posterior. 

Propox^odial bones Humerus. Femur. 

Epipodial bones Kadius and ulna. Tibia and fibula. 

Mesopodial bones Carpals. Tarsals. 

Metapodial bones Met;icarpals. Metatarsals. 

Phalangeal bones Finger bones. Toe bones. 

THE SEMICIRCULAR CANALS OF VERTEBRATES. 

Dr. Francis Dercum has investigated the morphology of the semi- 
circular canals in the vertebrates.t He recalls the fact that the structure 
of the mucous canals and of the semicircular canals is very similar, as 
Leydig, m ISoO, had already observed. Deeming this analogy complete 
he asks, " Would it now be too hazardous to suggest that the two 
organs which are so closely related in structure and which present 
such significant facts as regards nerve supply and embryological devel- 
opment, are related genetically f Such si>ecialization would not be in- 
consistent. Let us see how it may have been brought about. In an 
organism provided with a general apparatus for the perception of vibra- 
tions, evidently the first thing that would take place would be the 
specialization of certain portions for certain classes of vibrations. This 
is what may have been the case with the lateral canals and the ear, 
each being a specialization in its own peculiar direction. The fact that 
the involution of the side organs in Teleosts does not take place until 
the organism is already far advanced towards the completion of its 
development, and the fact that the mucous canal in the embryo of 
Elasmobranchs does not appear until the epiblast has been difierentiated 

* Marsh (O. C.)- The limbs of Sauranotlou, with notice of a new ppecii'S. Am. 
Journ. Sc. and Arts, (3), vol. xix, pp. 169-171, Feb., 1880. 

tDercuui (Francis). On the Moii)hology of the Semicircular Canal, Am. J^at., 
vol. xiii, pp. 366-374, June, 1879. 



ZOOLOGY. 365 

into its two layers, both imi)ly that the side organs had for ages ex- 
isted as mere " nerve hills," or nerve epithelium, projecting into the 
water, and this renders our idea not only x)0ssible but i)robable. In 
the course of evolution of the ear, the first differentiation of structure 
that occurred may have been as follows : Certain of these areas of 
nerve epithelium or sensory macular may, for functional specialization 
have become inclosed in canals. Now, for still greater specialization, 
the whole area containing the canals, with perhajis one or two maculre 
not yet inclosed, may have undergone a general process of involution, 
and thus given rise to the vestibule and semi-circular canals." 

FISHES, ETC. 

NOTEWORTHY WORKS, ETC. 

The classes of Leptocardians, Marsipobranchiates, Selachians, and 
Fishes are still so generally considered together under the old designa- 
tion of Ichthyology that it is convenient in practice for the present at 
least to recognize this grouping. The number of men deserving of scien- 
titic consideration who would now refuse the term of classes to at least 
three of those groups, however, is very small. 

Among the general works on " Ichthyology," thus understood, that 
have been published during the past year or two, are "An Introduction 
to the Study of Fishes," by Dr. A. Giinther, and parts relative to Ich- 
thyology of the general works on natural history of Brehm's "Allge- 
meine Kunde des Thierreiches ; andCassell's Natural History (by H. G. 
Seeley). The influence of Dr. Giinther is exhibited not only in his own 
work, but in the others noticed, and it is with regret that we have to 
add that influence has been for evil and to propagate and continue in- 
definitely some of the most unsound ideas and systematic essays that 
have emanated from any worker in zoology. 

The geographical distribution of fishes in general has been treated of 
by L. Tillier. The species collected by the Challenger expedition have 
in part (the shore fishes) been enumerated, and the new ones described 
and illustrated, by A. Giinther ; Arctic species have been reported on 
by E. Collet, C. Liitken, and T. Bean ; North American species have 
been described by D. S. Jordan, C. H. Gilbert, G. B. Goode, E. D. Cope, 
W. N. Lockington, &c. ; those of South America by F. Steiudachner ; 
Australian species by Castelnau, H. Jouan, C. B. Klunzinger, «S:c. j 
African species by C. Dambeck, &c. 

The transformations which fishes undergo after exclusion from the 
egg have been studied by C. Liitken and C. Emery. 

The temperature of the blood in a considerable number of species has 
been ascertained by J. E. Kidder. His observations are noteworthy on 
account of the modifications which they necessitate in the statements 
respecting these animals current in the books. 



366 ZOOLOGY. 

The anatomy of fishes has received attention from many iavestigators, 
among whom are Olga Metschuikofl", M. von Davidoft", and G. Swirski, 
who have treated of the shoulder and pelvic girdles in whole or part ; A. 
Cisow, who has studied the ear; G. Carlet, who has examined tlie scales; 
and M. Ussow, who has sought to explain the function of the "eye-spots" 
on the sides of scopelids and other types ; Ad. von La Yalette St. George, 
who has elucidated the adipose fin, and J. E. V. Boas, who has dissected 
the heart and contiguous parts in Butirinns and related fishes. 

Certain groups have also received special attention. Omitting all 
reference to work on the Teleosts, Petromyzon has been anatomized by 
E. Weidersheim and J. E. V. Boas; the Selachians have been investi- 
gated by G. B. Ercolani, C.Hasse, S.M. Garman, and H. Rabl Ruckhard; 
the osteology of Polyodon has been described by T. W. Bridge, and the 
embryology of Lepidosteus by A. Agassiz. Fossil fishes have been 
described by E. D. Cope, J. W. Davis, and R. H. Traquair. 

OEIGIN or SOUNDS PRODUCED BY FISHES.* 

Many fishes are known to emit sounds of various kinds, and among 
those inhabiting the United States are the drum-fish and other scijB- 
nids as well as the catfishes. As to the drum-fish a recent writer (Dr. 
Giinther, " Introduction to the Study of Fishes," p. 427) has assujued that 
"a tremulous motion" is communicated to vessels, and that the noise is 
probably "produced by the fishes beating their tails against the bottom 
of the vessel in order to get rid of parasites." This remarkable hypoth- 
esis renders exact observations noteworthy. The subject has received 
attention from several naturalists, and among them Mr. W. Sorensen, 
who has communicated to the French Academy of Sciences an abstract 
of a memoir which is to be published in full in the " Naturhistorisk 
Tidsskrift," of Copenhagen. Mr. Sorensen's observations were made ou 
South American Characinids and Silurids. "The sound is produced by 
the action of the muscles which are inserted either directly in the swim- 
ming-bladder or upon the transverse apophyses of the third vertebra. 
In the Characini the elastic parts of the swimming-bladder are stretched 
in the direction of their length by the contraction of the muscles, and 
the vibration that results from this rhythmic movement is transmitted 
to the air contained in the cavity of the swimming-bladder. In the 
Siluroids the anterior jiortion of the swimming-bladder is drawn alter- 
nately forward and backward by the contraction and relaxation of the 
muscles. During these movements the air in passing across the incom- 
plete transverse septa sets the latter in vibration, arid the sound is i>ro- 
duced. The height, or rather the depth, of the sound is in direct proi)or- 
tion to the raj^idity of the vibrations of the springs," — the" springs" 
being the transverse apophyses of the vertebrae. 

* Sorensen (W.) On the Apparatnsof Sonnd in some Soutli American Fishes. Ann. 
Maff.Nat. Hist., (5,) vol. iv, piJ. 99-100. (From Comjptcs licndus, May 19, 1879.) 



ZOOLOGY. 367 

THE FUNCTIONS OF THE AIR-BLADDER. 

The physiological relations of the swiiumiug-bladder of fishes have 
beeu considered by Professor Marangoni, in a special commimicitiou to 
the French Academy of Sciences.* Some of the views enimciated were 
quite novel ; whether they are entirely tenable remains to be seen. (1) 
It was contended that one of the principal results of the development 
of the bladder was exhibited in the migration of fishes ; those destitute 
of that organ do not leave bottoms of little depth where there is tepid 
water, while those possessing it, which live in deep, cold water, jieriodi- 
cally seek the warmer surface water to deposit their ova. (2) If living 
and dead fishes are i)laced in a vessel three-quarters full of water, and 
the air be then compressed, it is seen that the dead fish fall downward 
while the living ascend toward the surface, but if the air is rarefied the 
contrary is the result. They suffer from the passive infiuence due to 
hydrostatic pressure, and when brought from great depths the bladder 
is often ruptured. (3) The development of the bladder entails on the 
fish a double instability : (a) that of level, and {b) that of position, {a) 
A fish with its bladder adapted to the conditions existing at a certain 
depth may, through variation in pressure, be forced either upwards or 
downwards, and is thus in unstable equilibrium as to level, {b) The 
bladder being in the abdomen below the vertebral column, the centre 
of gravity is above the centre of pressure, and the animal is consequently 
constantly liable to inversion, and such inversion, in fact, results when 
inaction or death supervenes. This two-fold instability compels fishes 
to a constant gymnastic movement, and probably tends to conserve 
their strength and agility. 

TEMPERATURE OF FISHES. 

It has been generally asserted that the temperature of fishes was little 
above that of the surrounding element, except in the case of certain forms, 
anch as representatives of the mackerel tribe — the tunny, bonito, &c. — 
which have been stated to have a temperature of DOC" F. when the surround- 
ing medium was 80,5°. This statement has, however, been challenged, 
and Dr. Kidder availed himself of the opportunities oft'ered him while 
attached as surgeon to the United States Fish Commission steamer in 
3879, to institute investigations upon the subject.! All the observations 
previously made, according to Dr. Kidder, had been confined to the intesti- 
nal canal, the thermometer being placed into the rectum or oesophagus. 
It is, however, by no means in either extremity of the intestinal canal 
that we should look for the body temperature of a fish. In point of 
fact the experiments show clearly enough that the rectum temperature 

"*Marangoni (C). Fonctions de la Vessie Natatoire des Poissous. Compics Rend. 
Acad. Sc, Paris, t. xc, pp. 1293, 1294. 

t Kidder (J. H. ). Eeport of Experiments iiijou the Animal Heat of Fishes, &c. Proc 
U. S. Nat. Mas., vol. ii, pp. 306-326, 1879. 



868 



ZOOLOGY. 



rarely exceeds that of the water in which the fish swims by so much as 
a degree, " so that it may be quite safely taken as an index to the latter 
teiUiperature when there is no deep-sea thermometer at hand." 

The experiments of Dr. Kidder were made not only in the rectum and 
stomach, but in various iiarts of the muscular tissues, the large venous 
trunks, the cavity of the thorax after oi^euing the heart, the interior of 
the heart, and branchial artery, and the young fish in the ovary. Although 
Dr. Kidder admits the results to be only tentative, he considers that 
enough has been ascertained to show that fishes do develop animal heat 
by their own vital ])rocesses in the same manner, but in a less degree, 
as do the higher vertebrate animals, and that they will be found to mani- 
fest a temperature much above the water in which they swim. The 
temperature, however, varies according to the organization and the 
species. Thus the dog-fish {Squalus acanthias), in common with other 
sharks, '' possessing a far more perfect digestive and circulatory sys- 
tem than the cod, shows a much greater excess of blood tempera- 
ture above that of the surrounding water ; and cod taken at the depth 
of 15 fatlioms in water at 52° F., show a less excess than others taken 
in 25 fathoms at 41° F., but a greater excess than blue-fish {Poma- 
tomiis saltatrix (Linn.) Gill) taken at the surface, at 09° and 70°, which 
is presumably nearer the normal temperature of the last-named fish." 

ISTinety-seven fishes, representing 16 species, were experimented upon 
by Dr. Kidder, and, throwing out doubtful and imperfect observations, 
the following is a summary of the results : 



Fish. 


Temperature 

of suiTound- 

ing water. 


Temperature 

of rectum 
above water. 


Temperature 
of circulation 
above water. 


Remarks. 


Cod 


Degrees. 
39-42 


Degrees. 

0.98 

1.3 

2.4 

2.4 

0.25 

0.5 

4.1 


Degrees. 

4.63 
5.3 
4.5 
9.8 
*1.55 
tl.7 
5.25 
2.3 
3.2 
4.4 
6 
3 
12 
20.6 




Haddock 




Pollock 


42 

42 

7.3.2 

70.5 

65 

60 

60 

70.6 




Hake 


Sjiawning. 


Bluelisli 


Do 




" Tinker" mackerel 


"Thorax." 


" Tinker," S. Dekayi 


Do. 


Sculpin 


0.8 


Do. 


Sea-raven 


Stomach. 


Eelpoiit 


3 




Flounder 


42 
42 
42 




Dogfish 


4.4 




Dogfish, young in ovary 











' Below. 



t Above. 



THE OVARIES OF TELEOST FISHES. 



Dr. J. Brock has investigated the anatomy and histology of the organs 
of reproduction in the male as well as female of teleost fishes.* The 

*Brock (J.). Bcitriige zur Anatomie und Histologic der Geschlechtsorgane der 
Knockeufische. 



ZOOLOGY. 369 

female organs were foimd to present a number of varieties in the distribu- 
tion of the eggs upon the surface of the himelLne. As these differences 
will prove of interest to the systematist and pisciculturist, the analytical 
table classifying them is here reproduced. 

A. Ovary without duet. 

1. Ovary consisting of a simple lamina {Amjuilla). 

2. Ovary consisting of numerous lamime [Salmonldce). 

B. Ovary with duct. 

1. O vigorous surface confined to a narrow strip of the wall of the ovary 

or forming a duplicature of the wall, with which it is in con- 
nection by narrow stripes {Scofycvna, &c), 

2. Ovigerous surface occupying the greater part of the ovarian wall. 
a. Ova originate in irregular processes of the wall {Lopohhran- 

chii, &c.). 
h. Ova originate in definite lamelhie or duplicatures of the ovarian 
wall. 

1. Lamelhe parallel to long axis of ovary. 

a. Whole wall of ovary beset with lamellte: canal central 

{Sargus, Scomber, &c.). 
1). Part of wall of ovary devoid of lamellne ; canal lateral 

(not yet observed). 

2. Lamellne parallel to transverse axis of ovary. 
a. Ovarian canal central {Perca, Clupea, «&c.). 
h. Ovarian canal lateral {CijpHnoids). 

THE FLIGHT OF FLYING-FISHES. 

The characteristics of the flight of flying-fishes have been much dis- 
cussed and have given rise to a considerable controversial literature. 
In 1878, Prof. Carl Mobius re examined the question from an anatomical 
and physiological as well as an observational basis, and gave his views 
in quite an elaborate memoir.* lioth the Exoc(etines and Dactylop- 
terines were considered. As a result of his studies Professor Mobius 
came to tbe conclusion that the pectoral fins are not at all actively 
employed during flight; that the fishes " do not raise themselves, but 
are passively raised by the ascending currents of air, which are caught in 
the grooves on the under surface of their pectoral fins." It is admitted, 
however, that either an exocoetus or dactylopteriis may '^make jiowerful 
and plainly recognizable movements with its tail and pectorals during 
its ascent (out of water), and even occasionally in the middle of its course, 
i f prompted thereto by a strong wetting of the body by the waves." These 
opinions have been challenged lately, and have provoked several com- 
munications. 

Mr. C. O. Whitman t made special observations in the flight of i/.»70C<eft 



* Mobius (Carl). Die Bewegungen der fliegenden Fisclie durch die luft. Zeitschrifi 
fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie, voL xxx ; Snpplemeut, p. 343. 
tWLitman (C. O.). Do Flying Fisli Hy? Am. Xat., vol. xiv, pp. G41-654. 
S. Mis. 31 24 ' 



370 ZOOLOGY. 

during a voyage from Sau Francisco to Yokohama, and maintains (1) 
that he saw them out of water "when the air was ahnost motionless" and 
that, in fact, " they were not much, if at all less numerous on such occasions 
than when there was a moderate wind"; (2) that the flapping move- 
ment is quite regular and very rapid ; and (3) that this movement '■'■may 
he conthiuecV for the whole or a part of the flight, but is gcneritUij di.scon- 
tinned after the first few rods, and the course completed by a pure 
skimming or sailing movement. " It is further claimed that " the course 
of the flight is generally in a straight or curved line," but is sometimes 
abruptly changed, " apparently by the aid of the tail," or rather the lower 
lobe of the caudal fin. The average flight, it is thought, "does not per- 
haps exceed fifteen seconds, nor extend above four or five hundred feet"; 
the longest observed "lasted not less than forty seconds, and its extent 
was undoubtedly over eight hundred feet, and may have exceeded twelve 
hundre<l feet." 

l*rof. 1). S. Jordan also carefully examined the flight of an Exocoetus 
{E. californicus) in the waters of Southern California.* He observed it 
best "in early morning when both air and water were free from motion." 
" On rising from the water the movements of the tail are continued for 
some secjonds until the whole body is out of water. While the tail is in 
motion the pectorals are in a state of very rapid vibration, and the 
ventrals are folded. When the action of the tail ceases, the pectorals 
and ventrals are spread, and, as far as we can see, held at rest. When 
the fish begins to fall, the tail touches the water and the motion of the 
pectorals recommences, and it is enabled to resume its flight, which it 
finally finishes by falling in the water with a splash." The flight was 
thought to sometimes extend to "nearly a quarter of a mile." 

AFFINITIES OF PLEUEACANTHUS.t 

In the Carboniferous and Permian deposits have been found the remains 
of fishes described under the name of Pleuracanthus, whose afiinities 
have been involved in considerable doubt. They have been mostly re- 
ferred to the Selachians, although suggestions have been made that 
they may belong rather to the Teleosts. The question has lately been 
reopened by Mr. James W. Davis, and he has come to the conclusion 
that they claim a nearer relationship to the Teleosts than to the Elasmo- 
branchs, although there is equal reason to believe that they possess 
many characteristics in common with the Sharks and Eays, and he 
is therefore led to place the genus in an intermediate position between 
the two. The afiinities he thinks are decidedly on the side of the Silu- 
roids, and it is reasonable, he thinks, to consider them as forerunners of 
that great group of fishes. 

"It remains," he says, " to be seen what were the successive steps in 

'Jordan (D. S.). Do Flying Fish fly? Am. Nat., vol. siv, pp. 804, 805. 
t Davis (J. W.). On tlie Teleostcan Affinities of the genus Pleuracanthus. Ann. 
Mag. Kat. Hist, (5,) vol. v, pp. 349-357. 



ZOOLOGY. 371 

development which have resulted in the completely ossified and highly 
organized Siluroids now existing." 

:,We give these results of Mr. l)a^•is' investigation on account of the 
importance of the question involved, but it seems best to add that there 
can be no close relatioushii) between the Teleosts and the Selachians, 
and that the question as to the relationship of the palieozoic fishes can 
only be ascertained after the examination of specimens in a far more 
satisfactory condition than any that have yet been found. 

THE PLATYSOMIDS AND TALiEONISCIDS. 

Two of the most frequently occurring groups of fishes occurring in the 
paleozoic formation are the Palseoniscidie and the Platysomidtie. The 
affinities of these types have been but little understood heretofore, and 
Dr. R. H. Traquair has therefore been led to a re-examination of the 
subject.* He has reached the following conclusions: 

"1. That the Platysomidiie are specialized forms, which have, if the 
doctrine of descent be true, been derived from the Pala3oniscidffi. Their 
structure presents us simi^ly with a modification of the Palasoniscoid 
type; and wherever the Pala?oniscida3 are placed in the system, thither 
the Platysomidoe must follow. 

"2. The resemblances between the Platysomidaj and the Dapediidte 
and Pycnodontidte are mere resemblances of analogy and not of real 
affinity. The Dapediidce are related not to the Palfeoniscidae or Platy- 
somidtie, but to the other semiheterocercal Ganoids of the Jurassic era 
{Lejndotns, &c.); and the Pycnodonts are higly specialized forms, whose 
general affinities point in the same direction." 

Professor Traquair concludes that the PalfcouiscidiE and Platysomidne 
belong to the "Acipenseroid sub-order of Ganoids." 

The characters ascertained to distinguish the Platysomidcne and Pal- 
reoniscidse scarcely appear to warrant the conclusions of Professor Tra- 
quair. Professor Cope, Indeed, has been led by the consideration of 
Professor Traquair's studies to a very different result, and one approx- 
imating, apparently, more to nature. Copef has proposed to differentiate 
the forms in question as representatives of "a distinct group of the same 
rank as those [he has] called orders," and given to it the imme Lysoptert. 
They are defined as "actinopterous fishes, with the median fin-rays not 
joined to the interhtemal and interneural bones, and not coinciding with 
them in number; and without suboperculum." 

ON THE SEXES OF THE EELS.f 

As is generally known, the subject of the reproduction of the eels was 

* Traquair (Ramsay H.). The Platysoiuidte. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), vol. vi, pj). 
97, 98. On tlie Structure and Affiuities of the Platysomidaj. Trans. Hoy. Soc. Edin- 
hiirgh, vol. xxix, pp. 343-391, pi. 3-6. 

t Cope (E. D.). Traquair ou PlatysomidiB. Am. Nat., vol. xiv, jip. 439, 440. 

t Cattle (S. Th.). Ueber die Geuitalien der mihinliclieu Aale und ihre sexual Unter- 
Bclieide. Zool. Anz., vol. iii, pp. 275-279. (On the Genitalia of male Eels and their 
eexual characters. Proc. U. S Nat. Mus., vol. iii, j>i^. 280-284.) 



372 ZOOLOGY. 

for a long time involved in obscurity, but many data have been accu- 
mulated within the last few years, and now we have the elements for a 
pretty satisfactory determination of the sexes. The ova and milt have 
been found by several investigators, and the last statement is that the 
individuals of the two sexes may be distinguished by external character- 
istics. In the female eel the snout is comparatively narrow, and a very 
considerable size is sometimes attained. In the male eel the snout is 
notably broader, and the length attained rarely exceeds 19 or 20 inches. 
The eggs of eels when mature are only about one-tenth of a millimeter 
in diameter, and there are several millions in the ovary of a moderate- 
sized individual. It is now well determined that they go to the sea, and 
there the sexual organs are developed, and in comparatively deep water 
the ova are deposited and fecundated. The young in due time ascend the 
rivers. The eel is thus an example of a catadromous tish — that is, one 
descending from the fresh water iuto the sea to breed ; and thus contrasts 
with the salmon, shad, &c., which are anadromous — that is, ascending 
from the sea into fresh water to breed. 

PLEUEONECTIDS WITHOUT PECTORALS. 

As is well known, some of the Soleids are more or less deficient in 
pectoral fins, and one genus has been named on account of the total 
absence of these members Achinis. Until lately, however, no Pleuro- 
nectids, in the restricted sense of the term, were known to be destitute 
of the fins. There nevertheless seem to be quite a number of forms be- 
longing to the family inhabiting waters of considerable depth in which 
the pectorals are reduced, or may be even almost entirely wanting. 
Several types show gradations in that the fins in question are less de- 
veloped and that of the blind side disproportionately small, but in 
Monolene sessilicauda of Goode* the i^ectoral fin on the blind side is 
"totally absent," and in a new tyi)e called Lepidopsetta maculata by 
Giinther, discovered by the Challenger expedition near the Antarctic 
Ocean, "off Prince Edward's Island," we have the "pectoral entirely 
absent on the blind side, and represented by a small rudiment only on 
the colored." t 

It may be here added that Lepidopsetfa of Giinther is entirely dif- 
ferent from Lepidopsetta of Gill, and therefore should have a different 
name. Mancopsetta may be substituted and refers to the defective 
provision with fins. 

* Goode (G. Brown). Descriptions of seven new species of fishes from deep soundings 
on the southern New England coast, with diagnoses of two undescribed genera of 
Flounders, and a new genus related to Merlucius. Proc. V. S. Nut. Mus., vol. iii., 
pp. 337-350 (338). 

t Giinther (Albert). Eeport on the scientific lesults of the voyage of H. M. S. Chal- 
lenger during the years 1873-70. Zoology, vol. i, part vi. Report on the Shore 
Fishes. London, 1880. (p. 18.) 



ZOOLOGY. OiO 

A NEW CALIFORNIAN FAMILY OF FISHES. 

A couple of remarkable forms were discovered, duriug 1880, in the 
Californiau seas, by Messrs. Lockingtoii, Jordan, and Gilbert. Mr. Lock- 
ington named the species discovered by him Icostem wnigniaHcus,* while 
that obtained by Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert has been called Icichthys 
LoclhujtonL] Both these forms inhabit tolerably deep water, and, indeed, 
are known as " deep-water fish " by the fish-dealers of San Francisco. 
The forms thus referred to differ in a number of peculiarities from each 
other, but essentially agree and have been associated by Messrs. Jordan 
and Gilbert under one family, to which the wa^mQ Icosteidcc has been 
given. The chief distinctive character is the imperfection of the ossifi- 
cation and the consequently flexible bones, as well as hmpness and 
flabbiness of the body and integuments. The family is considered to 
belong to the Trachinoid group, and is defined as follows : 

"Body oblong, comiu'essed. Head, moderate, unarmed; the sub- 
orbital without bony stay. Mouth terminal, little oblique ; the premax- 
illary not protractile; the maxillary slender. Teeth minute, sharp, 
erect, in one series on the jaws only. Xo barbels. Gills 4, a slit behind 
the fourth. Gill-openings wide ; the membranes free from the isthmus. 
Gill-rakers slender. Branchiostegals 7. Dorsal and anal fins long, with- 
out spines. Caudal fin with many recurrent accessory rays, on a slender 
peduncle. Pectoral fins rounded, with the carpal bones slightly ex- 
serted. Ventral fins thoracic, 1, 5, or 1, 4. Vent normal, without anal 
papilla. Pseudobrauchiai present." 

Icosteus has a naked body (save some spinules along the lateral line), 
and the veutrals quadriradiate (I, 4). Ickhthys has small scales, and 
the ventrals quinqueradiate (I, 5). 

A NEW ECONOMICAL FISH, 

On the banks off the American coast, in about latitude 40° X. and 
longitude 70° W., is found a fish in large numbers of a type previously 
to 1879 undescribed.f It has been made known by Messrs. Goode and 
Bean, under the name Lopholaiilus chanudeonticcps. It belongs to the 
family LatiUdcc, and its few-rayed vertical fins and other characters ap- 
proximate it to the genus Latilus, but it is distinguished from all other 
representatives of the family, and, indeed, from all related fishes, by the 
development of a large adipose appendage, resembling the adipose fin of 
the Salmonidw, upon the nape. The labial folds upon the sides of the 

* Lockiugtou ( W. N. ). Description of a uew geuus and some new species of Califor- 
nia Fislies {Icoatvm anigmatiais and O.wierus atteimatus), Proc. U. S Xaf. Ific^., voL 
iii, pp. 63-68. 

t Jordan (David S.). -'"k^ Cliarlos E. Gilbert. Description of a new species of deep- 
water Fish {Icichthijs Lockiiitjtoni) from the coast of Caliibruia. Froc. U. S. Xat. .l/»s., 
vol. iii, pp. 305-308. 

t Goode (G. Brown), and Tarlton IL Bean. Description of a new gonns and species of 
Fish, Loplwlatilus clmma-Jeontkeps, from the south coast of New England. Pro'.. U. S. 
Nat.Mus., vol. iii, pp. 205,206, 1879. 



1574 ZOOLOGY. 

mouth arc also developed iuto liesby i)rolongations, or tentacles. The 
species attains a large size, sometimes reaching or even exceeding- the 
Treight of fifty pounds. In life the color is brilliant ; above it has a vio- 
laceous tint, while the lower parts are whitish, with some areas of 
yellow. There are numerous greenish-yellow spots, the largest about a 
third of the diameter of the eye ; across the caudal fin are about eight 
stripes of the same color. " The soft dorsal has an upper broad band 
of violaceous, and a narrow basal portion of whitish." The first speci- 
mens obtained " were caught with menhaden bait in July, 1879, while 
trying for cod, fifty miles south by east of oSTo Man's Land," at a depth 
of 75 fathoms, and on a A^ery hard clay bottom. "Two miles inside of 
this bottom there is nothing but a green ooze, on which no fish will live." 
The Lopholatilus is very abundant and bites freely. Large numbers 
have been taken since the discovery, and it is possible that the species 
may become a regular object of fishery. 

THE KOCK-FISIIES OF CALIFORNIA. 

One of the most interesting and unexpected results of the investiga- 
tions of Messrs Jordan and Gilbert* among the fishes of the Pacific 
coast of North America is the great development of species of the family 
of Scorpo^nids rej)resenting the genus Sebastichthys or closely related 
ones. Excluding Sehastodes, eleven species had been previously made 
known, and even then it was considered to be a remarkably well devel- 
oped type, but the recent investigations of Messrs. Jordan and Gilbert 
have revealed the existence of not less than 25 species. These occur in 
different associations, and are found in several bathymetrical zones 5 
they are mostlj^ caught in large numbers by the Italian and Portugese 
fishermen, and taken to the markets of San Francisco. They exhibit 
almost Gverj gradation in the extent of the armature of the head, and 
the transition between the typical representatives of the groups Sebas- 
tichthys and Sebastosomus are such as to indicate that they are of not more 
than subgeneric value. Some of the species are very formidably armed, 
as in the case of the >S'. nigrocinctus and S. serriceps, while others, as the 
8. melanops and S. flavidus, have the spinous ridges almost obsolete. 
Several species are very vividly colored. Such is especially the S. riibri- 

* Jordan (David S.), and Cliaiies H. Gilbert. Description of a new si^ecies of 
"Rock-cod" {Sebastichthys serricejps), from tlie coast of California. Proc. U. S. Xat. 
Mus., vol. iii, pp. 38-40. 

Description of anew species of ''Rock-fisli" {Sebastichthys carnatus), from the 

coast of California. Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., vol. iii, pp. 73-75. 

Description of two new species of Sebasticlitliys {Sebastichthys entomelas and 

Scbastkhihys rlwdocMoria), from Monterey Bay, California. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 
vol. iii, pp. 142-14G. 

Description of seven new species of Sebastoid fishes from the coast of Cali- 
fornia. Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., vol. iii, pp. 287-298. 

Description of a new Scorpamoid fish (Sebastichthys maliger), from the coast of 

California. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. iii, pp. 322-324. 

Description of a new Scorpsenold fish (Sebastichthys proriger), from Monterey- 
Bay, California. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. iii, pp. 327-329. 



ZOOLOGY. 



375 



vincUifi, which is known to the fishermen as the Spanish Flag, and is, ac- 
cording to Jordan and Gilbert, "the most brilliantly colored large fish 
on the Pacific coast." Of the species of the genus as understood by our 
authors, 23 have been already detected in or near the bay of San Fran- 
cisco, 25 in Monterey Bay, 14 at Santa Ijarbai'a, 5 at San Diego, and 9 
occur as far north as Puget Sound. 

A DEEP-SEA ROCK-FISII. 

As has been indicated with regard to the Californiau Scorpa^nids, the 
successive bathymetrical zones are inhabited by different species, and 
as we descend downwards we find one set of species gradually disap- 
pear, to be succeeded in the lower zone by another combination. It has 
been conjectured that in still deeper water we may find yet other forms. 
A^'hat may be expected is suggested by a species secured by the Chal- 
lenger Expedition in the " Inland Sea of Japan," off Inosima, at a depth 
of " 345 fathoms." It has been illustrated by Dr. Giinther (Eeport on 
the Shore Fishes, p. G5, pi. 27),* under the name of Sehastes macrocJiir, 
without any consideration of its relations. It is, nevertheless, note- 
worthy for several peculiarities. The typical species of Sehaste.s have 
15 (14+1) dorsal spines and about 30 {e. g., 12-J-19) vertebrae, while 
the species of Sehastichthys and allied forms have 12 or 13 (12-|-1) dorsal 
spines, and 24 (14+10) vertebrae. The ^^ Sebastes macrocliir''^ has, like 
the typical species of Sebastes, 15 (14+1) dorsal spines, but the verte- 
brte are unknown, although they are probably developed in increased 
numbers. (The soft portion of the dorsal is said by Dr. Giinther to have 
six rays, but nine are figured.) The principal characteristics of the spe- 
cies, however, are the peculiar structure of the pectorals and ventrals, 
and the position of the latter. The pectorals have a wide base, and are 
produced backwards near the upper margin (and not medially), while 
the (five) lower rays are thickened and extend much beyond the rays 
next above in a linguiform lobe ; the ventrals are situated directly un- 
der (and not behind) the axils of the pectorals, and the outer rays are 
produced thick and unbranched. These characteristics are the more 
noteworthy, inasmuch as many deep-sea fishes have the lower pectoral 
and ventral rays differentiated and modified as "feelers." The ^^Sebastes 
macrochir^^ is evidently not a true "/S'c^&rts/es," and, on account of the form 
of the pectorals and position of the ventrals just indicated, should be 
distinguished generically. It may be called Sebastolobus macrochir. 

REPTILES, ETC. 

FEATURES OF PROGRESS. 

Like ichthyology, herpetology is a common denominator for very dif- 
ferent classes — the amphibians and reptiles — which receive attention 

" Guutber (Albdrt). Eeport on the Scientific Results of tlie Voyage of H. M. S. Chal- 
lenger. Zoology, vol. i, part vi. Re^jort on the Shore Fishes. London, 1880. 4to., 
82 pp., 32 pi. 



376 ZOOLOGY. 

as a whole from the same specialists. As in the case of ichthyology, only 
a few of the numerous contributions to the branch made during the past 
two years can be referred to. 

The systematic arrangement has been exhibited in the popular works 
on natural history published under the names of Broun (by C. K. 
Hoffman), Brehm, and Cassell (by H. G. Seeley). 

The skull has been examined in various stages of development by P. 
Stohr (for Urodela), andW. K. Parker (for typical lizards, chameleons, 
and turtles), while R. Wiedersheim has monographed the entire skele- 
ton of a salamander — Pleurodeles, The heart and its functions have 
been studied by M. Lourt, B. Luchsinger, and G. Siebert; and the 
Embryology by C. von Bambeke and F, M. Balfour (for the lizards). 

New species have been described by many, E. D. Cope beiug the most 
prominent among American naturalists, while several marine chelonians 
have received new names from S. W. Garman. 

Various faunas have likewise received attention. O. Boettger and E. 
Boser have attended to the Portuguese Amjjhibians and A. Tourneville 
to the French ones, and discovered what they have considered to be 
"new species" in those old, long-known countries. 

The Coecilians have been investigated by both W. Peters and 1\. 
Wiedersheim ; the poisonous serpents of Europe by E. de Betta. 

The extinct species have received the attention of E. D. Cope and O. 
C. Marsh in the United States, and in England of J. W. Hulke, E. Owen, 
H. G. Seeley, and ^V. H. Twelvetrees. 

ICHTHYOSAURUS VIVIPAROUS. 

Within the body cavity of various Ichthyosauri small individuals of 
the form have been several times found, and it has been generally 
sui)posed that they had been devoured by the large ones. Professor 
Seeley has, however, looked into the question, and has come to the con- 
clusion that Ichthyosaurus was really viviparous. The position of the 
small skeletons within the body is such as to make the viviparity of the 
animal much more probable than the inclusion by swallowing. There is 
at any rate no inherent improbability whatever in the viviparity of 
the type. Indeed the question whether a reptile is vivii)arous or ovipa- 
rous is of comparatively little moment, as it simply depends upon a slight 
degree of retardation in the retention of the ova, or the inclusion for a 
slightly longer time within the body of the parent. There is no signifi- 
cance such as exists between the viviparity of mammals and the oviparity 
of birds. {Academy ; also. Am. JS^at., vol. xiv, p. 00, January, 1880.) 

THE LIMBS OF MOSASAUROIDS.* 

Among the most interesting of the reptiles of the Cretaceous epoch 

* Marsh (O. C). New Cbaracters of Mosasauroid Eeptiles. A7n. Join: Science, (3,) 
voL xiv, pp. 83-87, pi. 1. 

Owen (R.). On the occurrence of rare extinct Vertebrates found fragmentarily in 
England. No. 3. Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist., (5,) a'oI. v, pp. 177-181, ]}l. 8. 



ZOOLOffV 



377 



arc tlie Mosasauioids, first introduced to science tbrou^b a gigantic 
'' Sauriau" whose remains were found in the valley of the Meuse in Ger- 
many (whence the name). Recent discoveries in America have greatly 
enlightened ns as to the characteristics and pecnliarities of structure of 
the type. The group was much better developed in America than 
in Europe, and the skeleton is now tolerably well known. It has been 
asserted that the form was tkestitute of limbs, or at least of a pelvis and 
sternum, and that in this as well as in other resjiects it approached the 
Ophidians rather than tlie true Saurians. Professor Marsh has recently 
discovered remains which prove conclusively that they had a well-de- 
veloped scapular arch and a sternum of goodly proportions, and that 
there was an equally well developed pelvis, with pubic, iliac, and ischiac 
bones, all distinct and of good size. Another bone, not previously found, 
is the "transverse bone" of Cuvier, or "ectopterygoid" of Owen. This 
has likewise been detected in several genera, and is an Lshaped bone, 
suturally united by one ramus with the corresponding processes of the 
"pterygoid" and joining at the other the posterior end of the maxillary. 
Professor Marsh has further identified (1) as pterygoid bones, those 
also called pterygoid by Cuvier and which have well developed teeth, 
while he considers (2) as palatines, small edentulous bones in front and 
outside the pterygoids, and interposed between them and the slender vo- 
mers. Hence Professor Marsh concludes that the new characters thus 
presented are all Lacertilian rather that Ophidian, but inasmuch as the 
Mosasauroids are distinguished by various important characters, he 
proposes to segregate them, as a suborder under the name " Mosasauria." 
As a previous name had been given to the group, however — Pythouo- 
morpha — that name should be retained, whatever may be the valuation 
that attaches to the distinctive characters. 

BIRDS. 

ILLUSTRATED VOLUMES, ETC. 

The usual activity has been manifested by ornithologists. The tend- 
ency to give an exaggerated value to trivial characters still lingers. 
One author,* for example, recognizes two subclasses and 20 orders in 
this most homogeneous of types, and for the little morphologically diversi- 
fied Passeres not less than oo families are i^rovided ! Numerous memoirs 
on the birds of special regions, on various groups of the class, on the 
anatomy of certain types, and on the system in general have been pub- 
lished in the organs of sundry societies and in other periodicals and 
reviews. A number of special volumes have also been issued, and among 
such the following serial publications are the most noteworthy. 

Of faunistic works are: 'P. DuC. Godman and O. Salvin's "Biologia 
Centrali-Americana " (parts 1 to 7); J. Gould's "Birds of Asia" (parts 

*Sclater(P. L). Remarks ou the iireseut state of the Systema Avium. Ibis, (4,) 
vol. iv, pp. 340-350, 399-410. 



378 ZOOLOGY. 

-32) ; J. Gould's " Birds of Xew Guinea and adjacent Papuan Islands," 
&c. (parts 9-11) ; V. Legge's " History of tbe Birds of Ceylon " (part 3) ; 
T. Salvadori's, " Prodromus Ornitliologife Papuasise et Moluccaruni 
(parts 6-9). 

Of families are : D. G. Elliot's " Monograph of tlie Bucerotida^, or 
family of Hornbills (parts 7-8) ; J. Gould's " Supplement to the Tro- 
chilidfe, or Humming Birds" (parti); P. L. Sclater's "Monograph of 
the Jacamars and Puft-Birds, or families GalbulidiB and Bucconidae" 
(part 4); G. E. Shelley's "Monograph of the Ciunyridte, or family of 
Sun-Birds" (parts 7- ). 

And of continuations of general works are : H. Schlegel's " Museum 
d'Histoire i!«raturelle des Pays-Bas" (tome 8, including Tinamids and 
Megapodids); E. Bowdler Sharpe's "Catalogue of the Birds of the 
British Museum" (vol. 4, containing the "Campophagidse and Muscica- 
pidse "). 

THE ODONTORNITHES, OR TOOTHED, BIRDS.* 

Perhaps the most trenchant ideas associated in our minds with birds 
relate to the development of the feathers, the insertion of the tail in a 
fan-like manner, and a bill destitute of true teeth, although frequently 
l)rovided with serrations or special odontoid enlargements of the cutting 
edges. In the Cretaceous period, however, there must have existed many 
forms possessing characters in which they resembled reptiles rather than 
living birds. One of those types, as is now generally known, was distin- 
guished by the development of numerous caudal vertebrae of elongated 
form, extended backwards, and iirovided with feathers on the lateral 
edges, thus contrasting remarkably with the abbreviated concentrated 
coccyx and radiate feathers of the living forms. This ancient type 
{Arclucopteryx) also differed in so many respects from the typical birds, 
and on the other hand approached the reptiles, that even recently the 
opinion has been expressed by an eminent naturalist, Carl Yogt, that it 
was really a reptile rather than a bird. This form appears also to have 
been provided with well-developed teeth, although the exact characters 
of those teeth remain yet to be elucidated. In America there existed 
at nearly the same period forms which, in most respects, approached the 
typical birds more than did the Archcvopteryx, but which, nevertheless, 
were distinguished by well marked characters. There were two of these 
types. 

In one form the vertebrni were biconcave, (thus resembling those of 
fishes and the Gecko lizards,) and the teeth were well developed and 
implanted in regular disconnected sockets and ijartlj' shed and replaced 
by others of later growth. The species possessing these characters, so 
far as they have come to light, had also large wing bones, and the meta- 

* Marsh, (O. C.)- Odontoruithes : AMouograpli on tlieExtinct Toothed Birds of North 
America, with thirty-four plates and forty wood-cuts. Washington, Government 
Printing Office, 1880. 4to, pp. i-xv, 201. Also, A Monograph on the Odontoruithes, 
or Toothed Birds of North America. By Prof. Marsh. Am. Jour. Science (3) vol. xxi, 
pp. 255-276. April, 1881. 



zooLOGr. 379 

carpals were aiicliylosed. These have beeu distinguished as typical of 
an order which has beoii called by Professor Marsh ^^Odontotormcv.'" 

Another form had vertebrai like those of living birds — /. e. saddle- 
shaped — and the teeth, although well developed, were implanted in a 
groove and not in distinct sockets. The wing bones in the typical forms 
were small, and no metacarpals have been found. These have been 
regarded as also constituting a distinct order, to which Professor ]\Iarsh 
has given the name '■'■Odontolciv.'^ 

ARCII^130PTERYX. 

It will be remembered that the scientific world was somewhat startled 
by the discovery in 18G1 of the body of an animal in lithographic stone 
at Solenhofen in Bavaria, which appeared to be intermediate between 
the reptiles and the birds, and which exhibited a combination of charac- 
teristics found in neither of those classes. While by some it was believed 
to be a reptile, by Professor Owen, who gave an elaborate monograph of 
it, it was referred to the class of birds, and since then has generally been 
conceded to belong thereto. Lately a second specimen has been found by 
Mr. Ilaberlein, a son of the discoverer of the first, and has been the subject 
of a renewed examination by Prof Carl Yogt.* Some additional char- 
acteristics have been revealed by the specimen; the head is preserved 
in a much better condition than in the first specimen, and the jaws can 
be examined. The latter in the upper mandible has two small conical 
pointed teeth. The following summary gives the conclusion of Professor 
Yogt: 

'' The head, the neck, the thorax with the ribs, the tail, the thoracic 
girdle, and the whole anterior member are clearly constructed as in rep- 
tiles; the pelvis has probably more relation to that of reptiles than that 
of birds ; the posterior limb, on the contrary, is that of a bird. In ail 
respects the reptilian homologies predominate in the skeleton. There 
remain the feathers. Here there is no doubt; they are birds' feathers 
with a central rachis and with perfectly formed balbules. The horny 
substance of the feathers has disappeared, but the model in the fine 
paste of the lithograi)hic stone is so complete that we may study the 
smallest details with the lens. The new slab shows all the feathers in 
their place. The remigesare attached to their cubital margin of the arm 
and hand; they are covered for about half their length with a fine fili- 
form down ; none of the remiges projects beyond the others; the wing is 
rounded in its outline like that of a fowl. It is possible that there was 
at the base of the neck a collar similar to that of the condor; at least it 
has beeu thought that indications of such a thing could be seen. The 
tibia was covered with feathers throughout its whole length. The Ar- 
chccopteryx therefore had breeches like our falcons, with which, accord- 

* Vogt (Carl). On Archajopteryx macroura. Ann. Mag, Nat. Hist., (5,j vol. v, pp. 
ISO-ISS. (Tiauslated from Bibliotheque UniverseUe. 1879, pp. 702-703. 



380 ZOOLOGY. 

iug to Professor OweD, it lias tlie most resemblance in the leg. Each 
caudal vertebra bore a pair of lateral rectrices; all the rest of the body, 
head, neck, and trunk, were evidently destitute of feathers and naked ; 
we should certainly otherwise have found traces of feathers upon a slab 
which has preserved even the smallest traces of a fine down. Hence 
the restoratious of the animal hitherto attempted are quite erroneous." 

According to Professor Yogt the ArchceoiHeryx is neither a reptile 
nor a bird 5 although bird-like in its integument and hinder limbs, it is 
reptilian in all the rest of its organization. 

The Archiiiopteryx has been derived, Professor Yogt thinks, from 
^'the lizard-like terrestrial reptiles, having feet with five hooked, free 
digits, showing no modification in their skeleton, but having the skin 
furnished at different points with elongated warts, downy plumes, and 
rudimentary feathers, not yet fitted for flight, but susceptible of further 
develoi^ment in the course of generations." 

THE EXTINCT PARROT OF BOURBON. 

It has been for some time recognized that the large parrots which 
existed in the islands of Mauritius and Rodriguez, when those lands 
were first visited by Europeans, re]>resented peculiar generic types — 
that of Mauritius the genus LoplwpsUtacuH, and the one of Rodriguez the 
genus jS^ecropsittacus. The large parrot of the isle of Bourbon or Reunion 
has, however, been generally associated with the Coracopsis nigra of 
Madagascar. It was introduced into systematic ornithology in 1700 by 
Brisson, and a specimen (presumably described by him) is still pre- 
served in the museum of the " Jardin des Plantes," although the bird 
has long been extinct. Mr. W. A. Forbes has re-examined the specimen 
and come to the conclusion* that the species was not a natural associate 
of Coracopsis, but the type of a peculiar genus for which he revives Les- 
son's name Mascarimis, and gives to it the new name Mascarinus Du- 
hoisL (It may be recalled here that G. R. Gray restricted the name 
Coracopsis as a subgeneric term to the Bourbon parrot and revived the 
name Vaza (of Lesson) for the C. nigra.) It is, he thinks, "allied rather 
to such pal»ornithine genera as Fakvornis and Tanygnathus, than to 
Psittacus, Coracopsis, or allied forms." Tlie extreme specialization of 
the several types of parrots thus restricted to the islands indicated is one 
of the most interesting facts in ornithology, and i)oints to a long isola- 
tion of the areas to which they were respectively confined. 

MAMMALS. 

FEATURES OF PROGRESS. 

The usual number of contributions have been made to the anatomy 
of different groups and si^ecies of mammals, and to favmal lists and 
works. Giebel's Treatise on Mammals, contributed to Bronn'f^ " Klas- 

*Forbes (W. A.). On the systematic position aud scientitic name of "Le Perroquet 
mascariu" ol" Brisson. The Ibis, (3,) vol. iii, pp. tJOli-oOT. 



ZOOLOGY. dbl 

seu uud Ordiiungen des Tliierreichs," lias been contiuued and a 
number of parts issued during tlie past two years. Trouessart's cata- 
logue of all the living and extinct species lias also been continued in the 
" Itevue et JMagasin de Zoologie." The most important of the many 
memoirs on special groups is Allen's on the Pinnipeds of North America, 
which contains besides a revision of those of other parts. The teeth 
have been examined partly as to their mechanical and partly as to their 
taxonomic relations, by Heusel and IJyder. 

The placenta? of Edentates of the families of DasypodidiB and Bra- 
dypodidiB have been examined by Milne Edwards and Joly, — the former 
by Edwards and the latter by Joly. 

O has made a special investigation of the muscle of the eye in 

the apes and monkeys. The foramina of the base of the skull have been 
again investigated with reference to systematic values by Cope for the 
^Ehiroid Carnivores and by Wiugie for the Insectivores. 

THE PEOCtENITORS OF MAMMALS. 

The parents of mammals have been chiefly sought for in recent times 
among the early reptiles, and it has been supposed that they were 
descended from forms closely related to the Dinosaurians of the Jurassic 
and Cretaceous epochs. In a recent memoir on the characteristics of 
the pelvis iu the mammals, Professor Huxley has challenged this view,* 
and has expressed his belief that " it appears to be useless to attempt 
to seek among any known Sauropsida for the kind of pelvis which 
analogy leads us to expect among those vertebrated animals which 
immediately i)recede the lowest known Mammalia; for, if we i^roloug 
the series of observed modifications of the i)elvis in this group back- 
wards, the 'Promammalia' antecedent to the Monotremes may be 
expected to have the iliac and obturator axes perpendicular to the 
sacral axis, and the iliopectineal axis i)arallel with it; something, in 
short, between the pelvis of the Ornithorhynchus and that of a laud 
tortoise; and provided, like the former, with large epipubes intermediate 
in character between those of the lower mammals and those of croco- 
diles." As this condition is not fulfilled in the lieptiles. Professor 
Huxley thinks that the original mammals have descended from an 
entirely different stock. He asserts that in such a pelvis as the sala- 
mander, for example, " we have an adequate representation of the type 
from which all the dilferent modifications which we find in the higher 
vertebrata may have taken their origin." He therefore deduces the 
conclusion that mammals have been derived from the Ami^hibiaus 
through "some unknown 'promammalian' group, and not from any 
known forms of Sauropsida." In corroboration of this view he adduces 
the two condyles of the occipital of the skull in which the mammals are 

* Hnxley (T. H. ). On the Characters of the Pelvis iu the Mammalia and the Conclu- 
sions respecting the Origin of Mammals which may be based on them. Froc. Boyal 
Society, vol. xxviii, pp. 395-405, ])\. 8. 



382 ZOOLOGY. 

paralleled by the Amphibians 5 and urges lliat onlj' in the Amphibians 
is the articular element of the mandibular arch persistently cartilaginous, 
while the quadrate ossification is small, and "the squamosal extends 
down over it to the osseous elements of the mandible, thus aflbrdiug 
an easy transition to the mammalian condition of these parts." Further, 
"the pectoral arch in the Monotremes, it is claimed, is as much like 
that of the Ami^hibians as it is that of any Sauropsidan; and the carpus 
and tarsus of the mammals are directly deducible from the urodele 
amphibian type. (It is also suggested that the calcar of the frogs is in 
some respects comparable with the spur of the Monotremes, though this 
is rather irrelevant.) Finally, it is said "in all Sauropsida it is a right 
aortic arch which is the main conduit of arterial blood leaving the heart, 
while in mammals it is a left aortic arch which performs this office." 
This discrepancy is thought to be "a great stumbling-block in the way 
of the derivation of the Mammalia from any of the Sauropsida j but if 
we suppose the earliest forms of both the Mammalia and the Sauropsida 
to have had a common amiihibiau origin, there is no difficulty in the 
supposition that from the first it was a left aortic arch in the one series 
and the corresponding right aortic arch in the other, which became 
the i>redominant feeder of the arterial system." 

In later publications* Professor Huxley has reiterated his opinions. 
The ancestors of mammals or " Promammals " would be distinguished from 
the Sauropsida by the possession of two occipital condyles and the en- 
larged size and functional development of the left aortic arch, while 
they would "probably be no less difterentiated from the Amphibia by 
the i^resence of an amnion and the absence of branchiae at any x^eriod of 
life." He does not doubt that " when we have a fuller knowledge of the 
terrestrial vertebrata of the later Palieozoic epochs, forms belonging to 
this stage will be found among them." A type like the one thus sup- 
posed without the amnion and corpus callosum, and provided with func- 
tional branchiae, would find a place among the Amphibians. In the line 
of descent, from the primitive vertebrate to the mammals, neither the 
reptiles nor birds would intervene, they, according to Huxley, represent- 
ing "as it were side-tracks starting from certain points of that line" in- 
termediate between the amphibian and mammalian stages of evolution. 

MAMMALS OF THE AMEEICAN JUEASSIC. 

Previous to 1827, we had very little definite information respecting 
the former existence of mammals in the Jurassic epoch of North Amer- 
ica, although Emmons had indicated that a form of that class had left 
remains in certain beds in North Carolina. In the last several years, 
however, quite a number of species have been indicated, and based upon 
lower jaws or fragments thereof, found in various beds in the "Western 
Territories. Up to the present time 13 nominal species, representing 

* Prof. Huxley on Evolution. JSfature, vol. xxiii (1), pp. 203-204, Dec. 30, 1880; (2), pp. 
827-231, Jan. 6, 1681. 



ZOOLOGY. dSd 

six genera, Lave beeu discovered. Tliese Lave been named and iiidi. 
cated in tLe American Journal of Science, as follows : 
XV. 1878, June (459). Dryolestes priscus. 

xviii. 1879, July (Gl). Stylacodon gracilis. (Styloduutida^ named.) 
xviii. 1879, Sept. (215). Dryolestes vorax. 

(210). Tinodon bellus) (Tinodoutidaj named.) 
xviii. 1879, jSTov. (390). Ctenacodou serratus. (Plagiaulacidte t^Gill 

1871) renamed.) 

(397). Dryolestes arcuatus. (Dryolestidte named.) 

(397). Tinodon robustus. 

(398). Tinodon lepidus. 
XX. 1880, Sept. (235). Diplocynodon Aictor. 

(230). Stylacodon validus. 

(230). Tinodon ferox. 

(237). Triconodon bisulcus. 

(237). Dryolestes obtusus. 

In a very recent contribution to tLe knowledge of tLese types, Pro- 
fessor MarsL Las proposed to differentiate certain of tLese forms into 
two orders, one of wLicL Le nas named Fantotheria and tLe otLer AUo- 
tlieria.* 

TLe Fantotheria are distinguisLed by "(1) cerebral LemispLeres 
smootL ; (2) teetL exceeding or equaling tLe normal number, 41 ; (3) 
liremolars and molars imperfectly differentiated ; (4) canine teetL witL 
bifid or grooved fangs; (5) rami of lower jaw unancliylosed at sympLysis; 
(0) myloLyoid groove distinct on inside of lower jaws ; (7) angle of lower 
jaw witLoiit distinct inflection; (8) condyle of lower jaw near or below 
Lorizon of teetL ; and (9) condyle vertical or round— not transverse." 
To tLe group tLus defined Professor MarsL tLiuks tLat, witL tlie ex- 
ception of a very few aberrant forms, tLe known Mesozoic mammals 
may be mostly referred. 

Th.Q Allotheria are distinguisLed by Laving "(1) teetL mucL below tLe 
normal number; (2) canine teetL wanting; (3) i^remolar and molar 
teetL specialized; (4) angle of lower jaw distinctly inflected; (5) 
myloLyoid groove wanting." TLe group so distinguisLed is xirojiosed for 
tLe genus Flagiaulax, represented by a species originally described 
by Owen, and of wLicL representatives Lave been likewise found in 
America, and to it are referred tLe new genus Ctenacodon of MarsL, 
" and possibly one or two otLer genera." 

It will be out of place to traverse tLe conclusions of Professor MarsL, 
but tLose best acquainted witL tLe mammals will agree tLat wLatever 
may be tLe relations of tLe forms above diflerentiated, it still remains 
to be proved tLat tLey are entitled to ordinal distinction, for certainly 
tLe cLaracters adduced are not generally considered to be entitled to 
sucL value by tLe majority of modern tLerologists. 

'Marsh (O. C). Notice of Jurassic Mammals represeutiug two new Orders. Am. 
Journ. Science, (3,) vol. xx, \}]}. 235-239, Sept. 1880. (See, also, vol. xv, p. 459; vol. 
xviii, pp, 60, 215, 396, 1879.) 



384 ZOOLOGY. 

DASYUEIDS IN NEW GUINEA. 

The mammaliau fauna of Xew Guinea, until within the last few years 
but little known, has assumed a special interest on account of the num- 
ber of types discovered related to Australian forms. Many groups that 
were supposed to be peculiar to Australia have been found in the great 
island. Among the most unexpected discoveries were those of two dis- 
tinct generic representatives of the family of Tachyglossids or Echid- 
nids. Besides these have been found true Phalangers, Dwarf and 
Flying Phalangers, Cuscus, Kangaroos, Bandicoots, and Phascogales. 
Xo typical carnivorous Marsupial had, however, been found, but 
recently a species of that group has also been discovered. The species 
in question belongs to the family of Dasyurids, and has been made 
known by Professor Aljjhonse Milne Edwards.* Specimens were ob- 
tained in the Arfak Mountains, at the entrance of the Bay of Gelwinck, 
on the north coast of New Guinea, by the collectors of M. Bruijn, of 
Teruate. The new species has been named Danyiirus fuscus. It is 
smaller than any of those previously made known, little exceeding in 
size a large rat. Its color is a very dark brown, but yellowish beneath; 
there are small white rounded spots, regularly disposed on the upper 
part of the body, and on the flanks, shoulders, and thighs. The tail is 
long and not bushy. The short thumb is destitute of a nail. It is thus 
most closely related to the Dasyurus hallucatus of the northern extrem- 
ity of Australia. 

PLAGUE OF EATS. 

It is tolerably well known that in various countries — especially trop- 
ical ones — once every few years there is a raid of enormous numbers 
of "rats," or rat-like rodents, on the cultivated crops of the planters. 
A plausible hypothesis has lately been promulgated correlating such 
incursions with the maturation and death of plants whose progressively 
increasing fruit, till a certain j)eriod, furnish food for the increasing 
rodents; but when the crowning crop has flourished and disappeared 
the animals are forced to disperse in search of the food denied them in 
their old homes. 

Mr. Orville A. Dewey has contributed to the Eio Xews a communi- 
cation reproduced in Nature t on the rat plague observed in the Bra- 
zilian province of Parana. "This invasion, or jilague as it is called, is 
said to occur at intervals of about thirty years, and to be simultaneous 
with the dying of the taquara, or bamboo, which everywhere abounds 
in the Brazilian forests." In explanation it is alleged that " the bamboo 
arrives at maturity, flowers, and seeds at intervals of several years, 
which doubtless vary with the diflerent species. The period for the 
species most abundant in Parana is thirtj^ years. The process, instead 

* Edwards (Alphonse Milne). Ou a new species of Dasyurus from New Guinea.. 
Ann. Mag. Xat. Hist., (5), vol. vi, pp. 171, 172. 
t Dewey (Orville A.). Plague of rats in Brazil. Nature, vol. xx, p. G5. 



ZOOLOGY. 385 

of being simultaneous, occupies about five years, a few of the canes going 
to seed the first year, an increased number the second, and so on pro- 
gressively, till finally the remaining and larger portion of the canes 
seed at the same time. Each cane bears about a peck of edible seed," 
and the amount jjroduced is enormous. After seeding, the cane dies. 
''The rats, suddenly deprived of food, commence to emigrate, invading 
the i)lantations and houses, and consuming everything that does not 
happen to be repugnant to the not very fastidious palate of a famish- 
ing rodent." 

Mr. Frederick Lewis, in a subsequent notice,* correlates similar visi- 
tations of rats in Ceylon ''with the flowering and death of the Nilloo 
{StrobUanthes), which forms the greater part of the underwood of Cey- 
lon forests, and is said to flower and die every seven years." 

Mr. Frederico Philippi, of Santiago, Chili,t records that in the south 
of Chili that analogous swarms of rats occur, and are also coincident 
with the crowning fructification and subsequent death of a bamboo — a 
species called Colligue — whose period is 15 to 25 years. 

THE HABITAT OF LOPHIOMYS IMHAUSI.f 

One of the most remarkable of living mammals is the form described 
in 1807, by A. Milne Edwards, under the name Lophiomys Imhausi. It 
is, it has been well remarked, "one of the very best examples of 'defen- 
sive mimicry' known in the animal kingdom." The specimen through 
which the species was originally made known was accidentally bought 
alive by M.' Imhaus, at Aden, in 1866, and thus Professor Edwards was 
enabled to obtain tolerably complete information respecting the organi- 
zation and peculiarities of the unique mammal. It has been since 
asserted, however, that the specimen in question was not an Arabian 
autochthone, but must have been brought from the opposite continent 
and i^robably from some place in Xubia or Abyssinia. Four specimens 
have now been obtained and are preserved in dift'ereut European muse- 
ums. As indicated by Giglioli, the native country of the species is "now 
pretty well defined by lines drawn from Suakin to Maman and Kassala, 
and thence southward towards the Somali coast." Tlie si^ecies appears 
to be rare in its native country, or at least it is not often seen. This may 
be on account of its habitat, for "it lives in deep holes in the strangely 
fissured rocks" of the region in which it dwells. It is a vegetable feeder, 
of course, and the stomach of a specimen obtained at Erkanid, on the 
mountains between Suakin and Singat, was found to be "distended 
with leaves and young shoots." 

PROPORTIONS AND GESTATION OF THE INDIAN ELEPHANT. 

Some exact observations have lately been published in the period of 

"Lewis (Frederick). Plague of Eats. Nature, vol. ss, p. 267. 
t Philippi (Frederico). A Plague of Rats. Nature, vol. xx, p. 530. 
iGiglioli (Henry H.). "LopMomys Imhausi." A. Milue Edwards. Zoologischer 
Anz., vol. iv, p. 45. 

S, Mis. 31 25 



386 



ZOOLOGY. 



gestation and the dimensions of the Indian elephant, which are of gen- 
eral interest. 

Four of the elei)hants in the gardens of the Zoological Society of Lon- 
don were weighed and measured by A, D. Bartlett,* the superintend- 
ent of the society's gardens, and the following figures give the result: 



Jnng Pacha 
SiiflfaCulli.. 

Omar 

Rustom 



Height at 
shoulder. 



Ft. 
7 
6 
6 
6 



l7l. 



10 

2 





Circumference of 

the front foot 

above the toes. 



Ft. 
3 

3 
2 



In. 



2 
11 



Weight. 



Tons. dot. Qrs. LI. 

2 3 23 

2 2 3 11 

1 7 15 

1 3 3 26 



The period of gestation has been recorded by two gentlemen. Colonel 
Heysham, of the Madras Commissarial Staft",t and Mr. Arthur E. Brown, 
superintendent of the gardens of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.! 
According to Colonel Heysham the period in the two cases noted was 
nineteen months, and, according to Mr. Brown, the exact period was 629 
days (from June 20, 1878, to March 10, 1880). The new-born elephant 
weighed 213 pounds, and its height at the shoulder was 34^ inches and 
the circumference of the fore feet 17 inches. " The young was u^) and 
walking about very shortly after birth, has teeth in both jaws, and sucks 
with the mouth. The mamma of the mother, when distended, projects 
somewhat laterally, so that the trunk of the young one is thrown up, 
and rests, when sucking, in the angle between the shoulder and tho- 
rax." 

LIFE PEEIODS OF THE HIPPOPOTAMUS. § 

(Jbservations in several zoological gardens have furnished the basis 
for some essential data in the life of the hij)popotamus. It takes about 
five years for growth, although it may continue to increase in stout- 
ness afterwards, and has been known to live nearly thirty years. The 
sexual vigor of the male doubtless extends over at least twenty years, 
and perhaps somewhat more. The period of gestation in the female 
ranges ordinarily from 23G to 240 days, and in one instance birth en- 
sued 227 days after intercourse with the male. 

* Sclater (P. L.). Report on the dimensions and weights of the Indian Elephants. 
Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1879, pp. 385-388. 

t Heysham. Extract from a letter addressed to the president, containing remarks 
upon two cases of elephants breeding in captivity. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1880, 
pp. 23-24. 

t Brown (Arthur E.). Letter from, relating to the birth of an elephant in a menag- 
erie at Philadelphia. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1880, pp. 222-223. 

^ Owen (R.). On the Natural Form of Life and its chief periods in the Hippopota- 
mus. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5,) vol. iv, iip. 188-190. 



ZOOLOGY. 387 

AN OLD AMERICAN BEAR.* 

In the period shortly antecedent to that characterized by the existing 
fauna, there lived in California an animal of the bear family equaling 
in size the grizzly of our own days. The dental series was distinguished 
by the absence of distemas, or intervals between the canine and con- 
tiguous teeth, and therefore the species was generically differentiated 
from any living form. The Californian species seems, however, to have 
beipi related to a European ursid, which possessed the same character, 
and which has been made known as a peculiar generic type under the 
name Arctothermm. The bear of California has, therefore, been gener- 
ically identified with this and described as Arctotherium simum. The 
remains described by Professor Cope were found in a cavern in the car- 
boniferous limestone of Shasta County, California, beneath several 
inches of cave earth and stalagmite. 

EXTINCT CAT-LIKE ANEVIALS OF AJIERICA. 

Professor Cope has recentlyt subjected to renewed examination the 
Felids and certain forms that had been supposed to belong to that fam- 
ily, and has found that the characteristics found in all the existing spe- 
cies are wanting in some extinct types that are otherwise closely related. 
Such are the genera Archcelurus, Nirnravus, Dinictis, Pogonodon, and 
HoplopUoneus of the American Lower Miocene, and probably also the 
Prowluriis, JElurogale, and Eusmilus of the European Eocene and Mio- 
cene. These genera, so far as they have been critically examined, con- 
trast with living Felids in that there is (1) a distinct carotid foramen ; (2) 
the condylar foramen does not enter the foramen lacerum posterius; (3) 
postglenoid and (4) postparietal foramina exist; and (5) an alisphenoid 
canal is developed. These characters, in the opinion of Professor Cope, 
are of family value, and consequently the genera so distinguished are 
segregated under the name Nimravids. In most other characters, as 
well as in dentition, they agree with the Felids. The several types, it 
is said, " form an unusually simple series, representing stages in the fol- 
lowing modifications of parts : (1) in the reduced number of molar teeth ; 
(2) in the enlarged size of the superior canine teeth ; (3) in the dimin- 
ished size of the inferior canine teeth ; (4) in the conic form of the 
crowns of the incisors ; (5) in the addition of a cutting lobe to the ante- 
rior base of the superior sectorial tooth ; (6) in the obliteration of the 
inner tubercle of the lower sectorial and (7) in the extinction of the heel 
of the same ; (8) in the development of an inferior flange and latero-an- 
terior angle of the front of the ramus of the lower jaw ; (9) in the devel- 
oi)ment of cutting lobes on the posterior borders of the large premolar 

* Cope (E. D.). The Cave Bear of California. Am. Nat., vol. xiii. Dec, 1879. Sill, 
Jour., vol. xix, p. 155. 

tCope (E. D.). On the Extinct Cats of America. Am. Nat., vol. xiv, pp. 83Jt-858, 
Dec, 1880. 



388 ZOOLOGY. 

teeth." Twenty-one species of the new family are recognized, 12 of 
which are confined to the American Lower Miocene and 1 to the Ameri- 
can Upper Miocene. Of the other species in Europe 3 occur in the 
Upper Eocene, 2 in the Lower Miocene, 1 in the Upper Miocene, and in 
India 1 in the later Miocene or Pliocene. 

THE REPRESENTATIVE STRATA OF EUROPE AND NORTH ATMERICA AS 
DETERMINED FROM VERTEBRATE DATA.* 

There has been only approximate parallelism of the strata of North 
America and Europe from their Invertebrate remains, and inasmuch as 
the later deposits are better characterized by the Vertebrates than by 
the Invertebrates, a comparison with relation to the former was much 
needed, and this Professor Cope has lately undertaken. He premises 
that " if the types of Life have originated independently we will find evi 
dence of it by studying American palaeontology ; if their origin has 
been through gradual modification, America should furnish us with 
many intermediate faunae." To solve this question he thinks "the 
identification of the generic types of North American Vertebrata has now 
advanced to a point which renders such a comparison possible." This 
oomj)arison is begun with the coal measures and especially with the 
Batrachiaus of that period. The Carboniferous Batrachians are " not 
yet sufficiently well known to enable the most exact comparison to be 
made, but close parallels, if not identities, of genera exist. Such are 
the OestocepJialus and CeraterpetoUj of Ohio, as compared with the 
Urocordylus and Ceraterpeton of Great Britain." The Permian vertebrate 
fauna, as represented in Illinois and Texas, " exhibits close parallels, but 
not yet generic identity in the two continents." The Triassic fauna is 
much better known in Europe than in America, the marine Trias being 
little developed, and the vertebrate fauna of the Muschelkalk being en- 
tirely unknown in the latter country. The Keuper, however, is repre- 
sented, and a characteristic type (Belodon) existed in both continents. 
The Jurassic fauuse have been thought to be but poorly represented in 
the New World. " We do not yet know any deposits in North America 
which contain the typical reptilian genera Plesiosaurus, Ichthyosaurus, 
Pliosaurus, and Bimorphodon, or the fishes of the Bapediidce;" although 
recent discoveries by Professor Marsh presage much for the future. "A 
few more characteristic fossils of the Eocky Mouutain region represent 
the Oolite — particularly the upper Oolite — while Teleosaurus and^^eweo- 
saurus, and their allies, are not yet known from North American beds." 

The Cretaceous fauna is very well developed in North America. " The 
ocean of the interior of the continent deepened from the beginning of 
the period until the epoch of the Niobrara, and then gradually shallowed 
until the elevations of the bottom began to divide the waters. The clos- 
ing scenes of this great epoch were enacted amid a labyrinth of lagoons 

*Cope (E. D. ). The Relations of the Horizons of Extinct Vertebrata of Europe and 
North America. Bui. U. S. Geol. and Geog. Survey Ter., vol. v, pp. 33-54. 



ZOOLOGY. 



389 



and lakes of brackish and fresh water, whose deposits form the bed of 
the Laramie epoch." Of the four principal horizons of Europe, (1) the 
Urgaptian is not at all represented, so far as known, in S'orth America ; 
(2) the Gault in its upper portion and the Cenomanian in its lower por- 
tion are to some extent represented by the Dakota, but (3) the greater 
portion of Cenomanian is equivalent to the Colorado} and (4) the Seno- 
nian is paralleled very well indeed by the Fox Hills group. 

The name Post-cretaceous is given by Cope to (1) the Laramie, which 
has a very characteristic fauna and is not represented in Europe, and 
the (2) Puerco, which is perhaps represented by the Thanetian of that 
continent. 

The Tertiary epoch is abundantly developed, and from its base upwards 
the strata contain remains of numerous mammalian types. The i^aral- 
lelism supposed to exist between the various beds of the iSTorth Ameri- 
can continent and Europe are exhibited in the following table derived 
from Professor Cope's article : 



WEST EUROPE. 




NOKTH AMERICA. 


Astian. 


Pliocene. 


1 


Pliocene. 


Equus beds. 


Plaisancian. 


Megalonyx beds. 


Oeningian. 


Oeningian. 


Loup Fork. 




Tartonian. 


Falunian. 




Langhiau. 


Ticlioleptus beds. 


Aquitanian. 


Aquitanian. 


White River. 


Oregon beds. 


Stampian. 


Tongrian. 


White Eiver. 


Sestian. 


Parisian, 


Uinta. 


Uinta. 


Bartonian. 


Bridger. 


Bridger. 


Bruxellian. 


Saessonian. 


Sueesonian. 


Wasatcli. 


Green River. 


Wasatch. 



The deductions Professor Cope has drawn from his examination of 
the various questions involved in these identifications are that (1) "por- 
tions of all the faunae of all the primary divisions of geologic time have 
been recognized on both the Eui'opean and North American continents " ; 
(2) these are mostly represented in an inexact manner, as the Coal meas- 



390 ZOOLOGY. 

ures, the Permian, the Laramie, the Maestrichtian, the Eocene, and the 
Miocene, but (3) several of the restricted divisions seem to be exactly 
parallel, as the Turonian with the Niobrara, the Suessonian with the 
Wasatch, and the JEquus beds with the Pliocene. 

In conclusion, a comiiarison is instituted between the results derived 
from the examination of the vertebrate remains and those obtained from 
a study of the fossil plants: (1) The beds determined by Cope from the 
vertebrate remains to be Upper Cretaceous were identified by Lesquereux 
from the plants as Lower Eocene ; (2) the Lower Eocene of Cope is 
called by Lesquereux Miocene ; and (3) the Middle Eocene of Cope 
answers to the Upper Miocene of Lesquereux. The discrepant results 
thus obtained are remarkable and, says Professor Cope, there are only 
two possible explanations : " Either the animal life of North America has 
lagged behind that of Europe by one period during past geologic time, 
or, secondly, the vegetable life of America has been equally in advance 
of Europe during the same period. In other words, if the plant-life of 
the two continents was contemporaneous, ancient types of animals 
remained a period longer in North America than in Europe. If animal 
life was contemporaneous, plant-life had advanced by one period in 
Europe beyond that which it had attained in North America." 

The necessity for further critical comparisons and study from a large 
point of view thus becomes obvious, but it must be added that the 
deductions formulated by Professor Lesquereux are antagonized not 
only by the vertebrate, but also by the invertebrate remains of the same 
strata. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The rank and importance of any science are to be measured not only 
by the iutriusic value of its subject matter, but by the amount of intel- 
lectual activity which it demands and has evoked, and the contribution 
which its pursuit has made to human progress and happiness. In claim- 
ing for anthropology the iirst rank among the sciences, it is only designed 
to say that it stands pre-eminent in the grandeur and complexit}^ of its 
theme. Although calling for minds of the highest order, it is beset with 
so many difficulties, that men of the greatest genius have been rarely 
attracted to it, and the beneficence of its results are so little apparent, 
either in the augmentation of happiness or the increase of solid learn- 
ing, that even inferior minds have been driven to labor in other fields. 

As knowledge becomes more complex its devotees are obliged to be 
more widely informed, although their cultivation of each subject need 
not be so profound. The abstract mathematician finds his most arduous 
labors in the solutions of those problems which have no objective reality. 
The astronomer, dividing his time between observation and speculation, 
ehminates the profounder questions of the mathematician. The physicist 
a.nd the chemist must acquaint themselves with other forces than iner- 
tia and gravitation, and in the study of molecular dynamics are com- 
pelled to neglect the processes of the astronomer and to accept his results. 
The retro-action of knowledge, also, is vividly shown in the assistance 
which the chemist is able to render to the astronomer in the revelations 
of the spectroscope. To the investigations of the student of matter the 
botanist adds the vital phenomena, and the zoologist the study of vol- 
untary motion. The anthropologist is bound to acquaint himself with 
all of these, since man is amenable to all the laws of nature, and, more- 
over, has ever taken their activities into consideration. His bones and 
relics are buiied in the debris of those geological ages which are beset 
with the greatest difficulties ; his body is more plastic than that of any 
other animal, and the forces of nature act upon him with a greater variety 
of results. Finally he thinks, he subdues nature. There is scarcely a 
mineral, a plant, or an animal that might not, with a little strain, find 

its way into an anthropological museum, as helpful or hurtful to man. 

391 



392 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

That tliere is a growing interest in this newest of the sciences is evi- 
denced by several considerations. Among these are the multiplication 
of i:»rivate collections, public museums, and journals devoted entirely to 
the subject. The cursor}^ perusal of a bibliographical list will indicate 
at once how much more minutely research is ramifying itself in the 
human subject. The multiplication and j)erfecting of instruments of 
precision and the record of many hundreds of observations are evidence 
in the same direction. 

Although the progress and expansion of anthropology are very ap- 
parent, it is difficult to indicate their rate in a single year, for the growth 
of knowledge, like the flight of time, is not marked by trenchant lines. 
Moreover, many of the best works published in any year do not come 
to hand immediately, and thus are omitted from every enumeration. 
Owing to this fact, the summary will have a somewhat narrower range 
than formerly. It will include all works on American anthropology so 
far as known, and such publications relative to the subject abroad as 
•have been received bj^ the Smithsonian Institution. The American 
summary embraces not only works relative to the American races, when- 
ever issued, but also the publications of American scholars in all depart- 
ments of this science. 

The order chosen in the summary is based on the convenience of spe- 
cialists, rather than upon a scientific analysis of the subject. The follow- 
ing are the headings under which the notes and the bibliography are 
collected : 

I. Anthropogeny. 
II. Archaeology. 

III. Biology of man. 

IV. Comparative psychology. ♦ 
V. Ethnology. 

YI. Glossology. 
VII. Comi^arative technology. 
VIII. Sociology. 
IX. Daimonology. 
X. Instrumentalities of research. 

I. — Anthropogeny. 

No epoch making work like that of Haeckel has appeared during the 
year. The Duke of Argyle, in a series of papers entitled " The Unity 
of Nature," develops a scheme of law in nature which is consistent with 
Christian theism. Dr. Lazarus Geiger's contributions to the history 
of the development of the human race have been translated into Eng- 
lish by David Asher and published by the Triibners. The jjaper of Dr. 
Theodore Gill ui)on the zoological relations of man is a resume of the 
evolution theory as applied to the human race, in which the author 
rather states the present condition of the problem than attemi)ts to put 
forth anything new. The same may be said of the communication of 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 393 

Dr. Holmes on the distribution of tlie race, in the transactions of the 
Academy of Science of Saint Louis. Prof. Gabriel de Mortillet, in his 
Precurseurs de Vhomme^ inchnes to the opinion that a rude, stone imple- 
ment-using- race of apes may have preceded man, and, therefore, that the 
flaked flints from the l^ertiary could have been in use by these precursors 
of man. The pedigree of man is also discussed in the iJublications of 
Letoui'neau, Nadaillac, Parker, Perier, Eadcliffe, Eamon, Vaughn, and 
Ward. The most important work that has appeared upon the subject 
in our country is Professor Winchell's "Preadamites-" The title of the 
volume is rather ill-chosen, for the reason that it is both misleading 
and too narrow. In addition to defendiug the view that the biblical 
record relates mainly to the Semitic peoples, and that the man of archaeo- 
logy is almost outside of its purview, Dr. Winchell has gone over the 
ground of ethnic distribution with great care, and presents a very clear 
statement of the present condition of the inquiry. 

II. — Archeology. 

Great activity has characterized the archaeologists during the year. 
In the United States the subject is fostered in many ways. The Smith- 
sonian Institution and the National Museum, co-operating, have their col- 
lectors and correspondents in every State and Territory where aboriginal 
relics and remains exist. The Bureau of Ethnology, lately organized 
under Maj. J. W. Powell, has rendered very eflicient aid among the Pue- 
blos. Institutions in the States are liaidly less energetic in the work. 
In Massachusetts, the Archaeological Institute of Boston, the Peabody 
Museum of Cambridge, and the American Antiquarian Society have all 
put on record labors of permanent value, as will be seen in the appended 
list of works. The American Museum in New York is now the rei)Ository 
of Mr. Terry's collection of American antiquities, besides several others 
illustrating savages in various parts of the world. The Philosophical 
Society of Philadelphia and the Academy of Natural Sciences publish 
occasional papers. In Ohio the Western Eeserve Society at Cleveland, 
the Cincinnati Society, and the Madisonville Society are actively engaged 
in exiflorations. The last-named body have published in pamphlet form 
a detailed account of one of the most thorough investigations everiuade 
in American archaeology. The State geologist of Indiana includes in 
all his reports an account of mound explorations made during the year. 
The same is true of the Wisconsin and the Minnesota Historical Society. 

The Davenport Academy in Iowa and the Saint Louis Academy in 
Missouri are among the most active of our State societies. 

The activity in the study of archaeology does not end her e. The rage 
for antiquities among rich gentlemen, both east and west, has put a high 
value upon aboriginal relics, and there are many archaeological treasures 
in these private museums. It is a cause of regret, however, that this 
cupidity for relics has started up the race of Fhnt Jacks to flood the 
country with worthless counterfeits. 



394 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Archaeology is further patronized and fostered by several periodicals, 
as the American Antiquarian^ the American Naturalistj the Kansas City 
Review, the Magazine of American History, the American Art Review. It 
would be impossible to speak of all the separate liroductions in this field 
of research 5 a few only will be mentioned that are likely to influence 
public opinion to a large extent. 

M. Florentine Ameghino has been very fortunate in discovering what 
he regards the vestiges of prehistoric man in the Pamelas of Buenos Ay res, 
an account of which he publishes in the first number of the Revue 
W Antliropologie for 1880. It is a cause of congratulation that three gentle- 
men in the City of Mexico, Senores Chavero, Orozco y Berra, and Icazbal- 
ceta have taken up the study of their own antiquities on the spot, in an 
intelligent manner, and are publishing the results to the world in the 
Anales del Museo Nacional de Mexico. 

The extremes of archaeological interpretation are represented by two 
expeditions sent out to Central America. The Lorillard party, under 
M. Desire Charnay, is the first in the field, and an account of their results 
will be found in the Kortli American Review for Sept.-Dec. This mission 
embodies the Trescott school of archaeologists who hold that the Aztec 
and the Maya were something quite above our modern savages. The 
Archaeological Institute stands for the opposite view, as set forth in the 
writings of Mr. Lewis H. Morgan and of Mr. Bandelier, the agent of the 
Institute. Both parties are in severe earnest, and naught but good can 
come from hearing both sides. 

In England the debate still goes on as to the geological significance 
of certain flint implements discovered in the caves and brick earths. 
Are they post-glacial, intra-glacial, inter-glacial, or ante-glacial? The 
account of the discussions ui^on the subject will be found in the files of 
Nature. The appearance of Mr. Dawkins's " Early Man in Britain " is the 
immediate cause of the controversy. 

Not less interesting and important is the volume of Princii^al Daw- 
son on " Fossil Men and their Modern Eepresentatives." The jjurport of 
the book is to connect aboriginal life as it has been enacted before the 
author's eyes in Canada with the revelations of archaeology. From these 
data, Dr. Dawson seeks to reconstruct ancient society in Europe. 

The i)apers of Mr. William McAdams are of especial interest as show- 
ing what excellent work a farmer can do who is willing at idle times to 
take his teams and men and to make careful explorations. Mention 
should also be made of the labors of the Eev. S. D. Peet, who has man- 
aged the American Antiquarian under great difiiculties and without 
salary, until it has now reached the third volume. The work upon the 
mound pottery of Missouri, j)repared by Messrs. Potter and Ebers, and 
published by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Saint Louis, is a splendid 
work in every respect — text, illustrations, and maps. The explorations 
described were made in the southeastern corner of the State, at New 
Madrid, a locality singularly rich in mound relics. Prof. John T. Short, 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 395 

of Columbus, Ohio, has published during the year a volume entitled " The 

North Americans of Antiquity," in which he has brought together at great 

pains the results of explorations up to our day. It would not be too 

much to say that it is now the best manual of xVmerican archaeology. 

In the Smithsonian Annual Keport for 1879, published in ISSO, there 

are many pai)ers upon archaeology. The one most worthy of careful 

perusal upon this subject is that by Mr. Walker upon the shell heaps 

of Tampa Bay, Florida. The author reviews adversely Professor 

Wyman's theories of ancient cannibalism, and presents other methods 

of accounting for the phenomena. 

Wiener's "Perou et Bolivie" is a gorgeous work, whose material was 

collected at the expense of the French Government by Mr. Wiener, who 

spent two years exploring the graves and ancient monuments of tlie land 

of the Incas. 

III. — Biology of man. 

The title of this section is somewhat elastic ; indeed the Ecole cVAn- 
tliropologie of Paris divides its contents between two professors : M. 
Mathias Duval, who, under the subject of anatomical anthropology, 
delivered a course of lectures upon authropogeny or comparative embry- 
ogeny of the vertebrates during the last winter, and Dr. Paul Topiu- 
ard, who, from the chair of biology, lectured upon anthropology in respect 
of the living ; inasmuch, however, as the same individuals are engaged 
frequently in the study of man, structurally and functionally, and the 
latest text-books take strong ground that the two methods of research 
must be prosecuted simultaneously, it is found convenient to include 
within the same theme all those investigations which regard man from 
the side of zoology. The Biological Society of Washington has taken 
the same ground, in embracing within its membership osteologists and 
conchologists, as well as embryologists and physiologists. 

A noteworthy fact in this portion of anthropology is the slow but siue 
encroachments which methods and instruments of precision are making 
upon the different parts of the human body. In 1786 was published, in 
Paris, Pierre Camper's '■'■ Dissertation sur les differences reelles qui pre- 
sentent les traites du visage cliez les liommes de differents pays et de diffe- 
rents dges.^'' The facial angle has received more careful scrutiny at 
the hands of Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Cuvier, Cloquet, Jacquart, Broca, 
and many other distinguished anatomists. The cubage of the cranium, 
the situation and direction of the foramen magnum^ the occipital, basal, 
and nasal angles, and the cranial indices have assumed an importance 
even greater than the facial angle. The scapular index, thoracic index, 
pelvis, femur, tibia, and even the digits, are not without their value in 
the problem. 

The great difficulty of collecting the skeletons of any race in sufficient 
numbers and well authenticated, has driven the anatomists to devise 
methods of obtaining measurements upon the living. The British Asso- 



396 ANTHKOPOLOGY. 

elation lias done very much towards establishing standards of compari- 
son in this regard. Nor are the French very far behind in the work. 

The brain, no less than the cranium, continues to be the subject 
of absorbing interest. The comparative anatomy of the encephalon 
holds out the hope that here lies the path to the solution of the problem 
of man's ancestry and origin. On the other side, among these mean- 
dering labyrinths, are sought the secrets of the connection between 
material and sj)iritual existence. In the bibliography appended to this 
summary, studies on the brain are accredited to Amat, Bordier, Ducatte, 
Duval, Fowler, Spitzka. 

The work of examining the skeletons or the living bodies of men, 
however, has a decided rival in the science of embryology. The grand 
generalizations of Haeckel, in his "Evolution of Man," however faulty in 
detail, as all such comprehensive speculations must necessarily be, have 
kindled a vast amount of interest in human ontogeny. The researches 
of M. Mathias Duval, successor to the renowned Broca, upon the origin 
of the cranial nerves, will be found reported in the Journal de VAnato- 
mie et de la Fhysiologie, mai-juin and septembre-octobre, of the past 
year. 

IV. — Comparative psychology. 

The question of the place of inductive psychology in the general 
scheme of anthropology is as yet unsettled. Taking biology in its 
widest sense, as including life in all its manifestations, there could be 
no objections from any quarter to including the comparative psychology 
of man and the lower animals within the purview of this comprehensive 
subject. The reason for creating a class distinction in its favor is that 
there is a separate group of men at work in this area. The problems 
and methods belong to several subclasses. For instance, assuming the 
difference between the mind of man and that of the lower animals to be 
one of degree rather than one of kind, or, rather, to consist in a more 
complicated and subtle organization of the same elementary principles, 
and not in the difference of its constituents, it is held that the careful 
scrutiny of the manifestation of reason, feeUng, and volition all along 
the line of the zoological scale will lead up to a correct apprehension 
of mental and spiritual phenomena in man. Again, the question arises 
whether the intricate system of powers, emotions, and desires are not 
derived by inheritance and modification from simpler faculties. A very 
interesting series of observations have been set on foot by Francis Gal- 
ton as to the connection of memory and imagination with time and 
space. A fourth set of inquiries relate to the order and method by 
which mentality is manifested in childhood and youth. Finally, this 
portion of anthropology has its bitter controversial side. Between the 
atheistical materialists, the agnostic materialists, and the theistic dual- 
ists there still exists that personal prejudice which blinds the eyes of 
the observer and confounds right thinking. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 397 

V. — Ethnology. 

The term etlinology is retained for all those descriptive and philosophic 
publications which relate to the groups of men called tribes, races, peo- 
ples, the individuals of which recognize in one another a common bond 
of union and an entire absence of prejudice. Ethnography is a narrower 
word, applying only to monographs of different peoples. 

The descriptive portion of ethnology is certainly the most important 
part of anthropology. When we reflect that a very large part of the 
immense collections of " materiaux j)our I'liistoire primitive et naturelle 
de'l'homme " contained in such works as Spencer's Descriptive Sociology 
are falsehoods or mistakes, we tremble for the deductions that are to be 
erected upon such a crumbling base. This is not meant to disparage the 
great work of such men, but to enjoin the utmost caution upon future 
obser-^ers. It has frequently occurred to the present writer that we 
should have an account of the " personal equation " of each narrator 
before admitting his facts into the general fund of anthropologic truth. 

It is very difficult to single out special works in ethnology, since there 
is scarcely a portion of the habitable globe that has not been visited 
during the past year. No labor undertaken, however, will compare with 
the elaborate investigations which have been i^rosecuted among the 
Indians of the United States, under the patronage of General Walker, 
of the Census Department. The task of making the inquiries and 
working up the material has been intrusted to Maj. J. W. Powell, of 
the Bureau of Ethnology, and it is safe to say that there is not a little 
band of Indians in our territory that has not been approached by an 
intelligent ethnologist. The war in Afghanistan, in Zululand, and the 
encroachments of the Russians upon the southern portions of their domin- 
ions have all been fruitful of valuable ethnologic results. Among the 
enlightened nations of Europe there is the greatest activity in searching 
out the racial affinities of the present populations. Works of perma- 
nent interest have also appeared upon China, Japan, and the races of 
Oceanica. 

A very valuable paper upon French and Indian half-breeds, from the 
pen of Dr. Havard, will be found in the Smithsonian Eeport for 1879. 

VI.— Glossology. 

The mere acquisition of a language, or even the accurate study of 
its phonology, its etymology, and its syntax, is not a part of anthro- 
pology. Linguistic anthropology has reference, first to the origin and 
life history of language as a whole, and, second, to the comparative 
study of the languages of the globe as a means of grouping its peoples. 
From the point of view taken by the student of the natural history of 
man, all tongues are alike useful, all are part and i^arcel of a complex 
oiganism or links in the glottic chain. Inasmuch as the languages of 



398 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

savage and barbarous races are never acquired either for the purposes 
of traffic, or as a part of polite learning, it follows that all vocabularies, 
syllabaries, or collections of sentences gathered among such people are 
materials of anthropology. 

Among our North American Indians there is at present great diligence 
in collecting linguistic material. The missionaries who have labored 
with the greatest success among them have been those who have dis- 
covered that the comj)liment paid to a tribe in the acquisition of their 
language returns with interest to the teacher in the form of increased 
confidence and attention. Almost the entire Scriptures have been 
translated into the speech of the civilized tribes. The labors of Riggs, 
Dorsey, Vetromilye, bear witness to this fact, and furnish the philologist 
with some of his best material. 

The work of collecting Indian vocabularies, grammars, and diction- 
aries set on foot by the Smithsonian Institution is continued with great 
zeal by the Bureau of Ethnology. Mr. James C. Pilling is preparing a 
complete bibliography of North American Indian linguistics, which will 
enable the student to investigate each tribe in the whole body of its 
literature. Mr. Albert S. Gatschet continues his labors in the languages 
of the California tribes, and will produce the coming year two large 
volumes upon the Klamath. 

A glance at the bibliography accompanying this paper will show that 
the same activity has characterized those who have investigated the 
languages of other parts of the world. Especial attention might be 
called to the researches of Hovelacque, Keane, Oppert, Powell, Sayce, 
and Whitney. 

The work, however, that has attracted most attention in this direction 
is that of Col. Garrick Mallery upon the sign language or gesture speech 
of mankind. The author has not yet completed his researches, and there- 
fore his work cannot be fully appreciated. The following tentative pub- 
lications will show the compass of the undertaking. The first attempt 
to present the subject publicly was at the Saratoga meeting of the 
American Association, in 1879, an account of which will be found in the 
volume of proceedings published in the following year. 

A paper with the same title, not identical with the above, but contain- 
ing the greater part of it, and specially designed for circulation among 
officers of the Army and Navy appeared in the United Service, vol. ii, 
No. 2, Philadelphia, February, 1880, pp. 226-243. 

In the Aonerican Antiquarian, vol. ii, No. 3, pp. 210-228, the author 
continues his studies under the title, '^ The Sign Language of the Indians 
of the Upper Missouri in 1832." This was a translation and discussion 
of the gesture signs reported by Prince Maximilian von Wied Neuwied 
as in use among the Aricaras, &c., in 1832-'34. 

The most thorough work of Colonel Mallery is the "Introduction to 
the Study of Sign Language among the North American Indians as 
Illustrating the gesture speech of mankind." The chief object of the 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 399 

work is to explain the principles of the sign language in such manner as 
to properlj' direct research, and to furnish for observers forms of descrip- 
tion and graphic illustration, so as to secure accuracy and uniformity iu 
collecting material for a larger work. Reviews of this volume will be 
found in The American Journal of Philology, i. No. 2 ; American N'aturalist, 
May; Penn Monthly, October; Academy, May 22; Nature, Juue 3; 
Theosophist, Bombay, August; China Daily News, Shanghai, Maj^ 17, 
1880; Behni's Gcoyraphische Jahrhuch; Globus, 87, No. 17; The Pioneer, 
Allahabad, January 15, 1881 ; Swansea meetiug of the British Associa- 
tion, report, pp. 630, 635. 

A subsequent work, i:>rinted for collaborators only, issued in Wash- 
ington, is entitled "A Collection of Gesture Signs and Signals of the 
North American Indians, with some comparisons." 

VII. — Comparative technology. 

It is difficult to find a term accurately definitive of what is intended 
to be included in this class. Perhaps Mr. Spencer's "operative" cate- 
gory comes nearest. At any rate the term technical anthropology 
embraces the description of the materials, implements, processes, 
methods, agents and agencies, observances and results which enter 
into the activities of man, in peace and iu war, at every step of his 
social progress. These activities are of many kinds, as diversified, 
indeed, as human needs and desires multiplied by the varieties of 
material and environment. 

The discussion of this portion of anthropology is quite apart from 
the consideration of race. Stone, shell, wood, textile, skins, clay, and 
metal work have each passed through an elaboration which has kept 
pace with the evolution of culture. The works upon this subject during 
1880 have included meteoric iron in its relation to technique and the 
history of civilization, aboriginal use of copper, the origin of metallurgy, 
composition of ancierit pottery, savage and civilized warfare, agricult- 
ural fertilizers used by the Indians, jade workers, ancient commerce, 
and the origin of the plow and the wheel-carriage. 

Two works by our own countrymen deserve especial mention in this 
connection. The Smithsonian Institution has published as a brochure 
an article by Dr. Edward H. Knight upon the savage weapons at the 
Centennial Exhibition, taken fromi the report of 1879. The work is 
profusely illustrated, and is very suggestive of many of the "missing 
links" in the growth of the implements of militancy. The other work 
referred to is by the Hon. Lewis H. Morgan, entitled "A Study of the 
Houses of the American Aborigines, with suggestions for an exploration 
of the ruins of New Mexico, Arizona, the valley of the San Juan, and 
in Yucatan and Central America, under the auspices of the Archieolog- 
ical Institute of America." Mr. Morgan's belief with reference to all 
the remains of our country whether fossal, aggeral, or mural, are well 
known. The gentile system being given, the house, be it teepee, bark 



400 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

lodge, long-house, pueblo, or stone palace, is the natural outcome of the 
organization. The student of comparative technology cannot afford to 
omit this i^uhlication. 

VIII. — Sociology. 

Anthropology is not concerned with individuals. It does not inquire 
how he or they acted or thought ; that is biography or history. It is 
ever asking how they were accustomed to act. It does not seek to know 
quid fecerit or quid fecerint, but quae solebarit facere. When men are 
accustomed to do a certain thing, they act in groups, at specified places, 
and during certain seasons. Social anthropology inquires into the regu- 
lative forces of society. The propagation of the species and self-protec- 
tion lie at the foundation of the family, the guild, and the state, repre- 
senting children, craft, and power. Beneath each of these lies an unique 
principle, commonly overlooked by writers on sociology. A combination 
of families does not constitute a guild or a state. The family, as such, 
will never become more complex than the ends of procreation, nursing, 
and rearing of children demand. A combination of guilds does not 
constitute a government. The same men, women, and children who 
may be classified as families will be found arranged in guilds upon entirelj' 
different rules. The same is true of the government, both militant and 
industrial. 

The student of sociology, therefore, may set before himself a great 
variety of problems. The discussion of the family, including those ques- 
tions of natural forces which affect the increase or diminution, occux^ies 
a prominent place in sociology. The progress from promiscuity through 
the marriage of consanguines, then upward to the various forms of poly- 
andry and polygyny to monogamy, though not yet worked out, has re- 
ceived important additions in the works of Lorimer Fison, and Dr. J. 
Bertillon. 

The question of industrial cooperations has as yet received little atten- 
tion. Mr. Herbert Spencer gives a large place in his descriiitive soci- 
ology to the regulation of industrialism. A very entertaining and import- 
ant chapter in human history will be the narrative of the source and 
vicissitudes of human industrial classes. 

On the other hand, the history of militancy has been over-written. 
In the early jiart of its career our race was at war with nature as well 
as with itself. Man went forth to slay the beasts of the field, the fowls 
of the air, and the fish of the sea for food and clothing. All his tools 
were weapons, all his methods were warlike, and the same social organi- 
zation served both for the slaying of enemies and the pursuit of life's 
necessities. In the upper grades of culture, however, this is different, 
when the change of function demands a corresponding change of social 
structure. 

The study of sociology is so intimately connected with human happi- 
ness that there is no lack of interest or improvement in this department 
of anthropology. Of special importance are the publications of Ban- 



ANTIIKOPOLOGY. 401 

delier, on the social organizatio]i aud mode of goveiinnent (if the aucient 
]Mexicaus; Bertilloii, on human statistics in France; Flower, on fashion 
in deformity; Clore, on the development of deliberative government; 
Powell, on the Wyandotte Government; Royce, on the method and 
chronology of the extinction of the Indian title : and Yarrow, on mortu- 
ary customs. 

IX. — Daimonology. 

The word "religion" has had such a variety of meanings that some 
anthropologists never employ it. The term "religious" applies almost 
universally to persons, so the phrase "religious anthroi)ology" would 
not convey the meaning intended. At the risk of introducing a neolo- 
gism, the term " daimonology " (from Jac/j.wv, — a god, soul, or destiny,) is 
employed to include all observations and discussions concerning the 
belief in spiritual beings, the conduct of men in view of their belief, the 
l^araphernalia by means of which these beings are approached and ap- 
peased, and the body of dogmas and stories which have grown up around 
the various phases of a faith. 

Two facts are noticeable in view of the vast amount of earnest study 
which has been bestowed upon this subject. First, it is now well known 
that there are bodies of myths among every people as full of pathos and 
sublimity as those of Greece and Eome. Major Towell is doing excel- 
lent work in the way of collecting these stories among our own Indians. 

The Folklore Society of Great Britain, as well as similar associations 
in France and Germany, were organized for the pnrpose of jjublishing 
in permanent form the supernatural stories of uncultured peoples. 

In the bibliographical appendix will be found allusions to "ISTorse 
mythology," flower fairies, wolf-reared childien, the religious of India, 
Polynesia, Ancient Assyria, and Mexico, the cult of the dead, lore of the 
heavenly bodies, and of animals, creation myths, sacred books, and the 
origin of religion. Major Powell's vice-presidential address before the 
section of biology, at the Boston meeting of the American Association, 
was a discussion of mythologic philosophy, in which the desire to phi- 
losophize concerning the causes of natural phenomena was considered to 
be the fundamental iirinciple of all religions. 

X. — Instrujeentalities. 

Each science has not only its field of operation where it gathers its 
materials, but its storehouses where they are garnered and its media of 
products before the world. Anthropology also has its implements of 
research, its museums, and its journals. 

The instruments of precision are mostly confined to the department 
of biology. The methods of collecting and recording facts for future 
reference are of immense importance in prosecuting any study. The 
Smithsonian Institution and the Bureauof Ethnology use card catalogues 
in their work, so that information is always accessible. It is no dispar- 
agement to say, however, that in the system pursued at the Surgeon- 
S. Mis. 31 2G 



402 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

General's Office in collating the Index Medicus and the great catalogue 
of the library, the plan of carding knowledge has well nigh attained per- 
fection. 

The subject of anthropology is discussed, first of all, in societies de- 
voted entirely to this science, or one of its branches. The principal 
ones are the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland ; 
the Societe d' Anthropologic de Paris ', and the Anthropologische Gesell- 
schaft of Germany. Societies also exist and jjublish journals in Berlin, 
Vienna, Florence, Madrid, and Washington. Secondly, international 
congresses are held in various cities of Europe. Pre-eminent among 
these are the International Congresses of Anthroi)ology, Ethnology, and 
Prehistoric Archaeology, Congr^s des Americanistes, and the Con- 
gres International des Sciences Anthropologiques. Third' y, the great 
national scientific gatherings, answering to our own American Associa- 
tion, have each a subsection of anthropology, and very many valuable 
papers appear in their transactions. Fourthly, papers of permanent 
value in the study of man are read in the great number of local societies 
in our larger cities and abroad. Fifthly, in addition to the journals, bulle- 
tins, transactions, proceedings, and contributions of all these associa- 
tious, the popular science periodicals, as well as the best literary month- 
lies and quarterlies, give place each month to at least one article upon 
anthropology. 

To go over all this material requires a vast expenditure of time, more 
than one individual can command. Already, therefore, the science be- 
gins to have its specialists, who have given up the hope of occupying 
the entire field and have contented themselves with a circumscribed 
area. 

The following bibliographical list does not claim to be exhaustive. It 
represents pretty accurately what Americans are doing and what is being 
done for America. The voluminous i)ublications of the Archiv fiir 
Anthropologic, although appearing rather late, are indispensable to one 
who would prepare an exhaustive bibliography of our theme. The 
abbreviations used throughout this paper are those which have been 
adopted at the Surgeon-General's Office, in the preparation of the great 
medical catalogue. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 403 

BIBLIOGEAPHY OF ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

I. — AjN'THEOPOGENY. 

Argyll, The Duke of— The unity of nature, &('. Science, i, pp. 24; 
33; 99; 181; 228; 2G7; 280. 

DuGANNE, A. J. n. — Civilization vs. Nature. Fottcr''s Am. Month., July. 

Geigee, Lazarus— Contributions to the history of the development of 
the human raee. Lectures and dissertations. Translated from the 
seco'ul Crcrman edition by David Asher. London, Triibner & Co., 
1880. 

Gill, Theodore (Washington, D. C.)— On the zoological relations of 
man. Tr. AntJiroj). Soc. Washington, i, p. 15. 

Holmes, Nathaniel (Saint Louis, Mo.)— Geological and geographical 
distribution of the human race. Tr. Acad. Sc. 8f. Louis, iv, p .1. 

Lankester, E. Eay — Degeneration. A chapter in Darwinism. Na- 
ture Series. Macmillan & Co., 1880. (Eeviewed in Nature, June 17.) 

Letourneau, Ch.— Le regne des protistes et la psychologic cellulaire. 
Rev. (Vantliro])., 1880, pp. 282-285. 

MoRTiLLET, Gabriel de— Les precurseurs de I'homme et les singes 
fossiles. lier. scient., Paris, mai, 1880. 

Nadaillac, M. de— L'origine de la vie. Paris, 1880. pp. 32. 8°. 
(Extr. du CorresiJondant.) 

Parker, Dr. A. J.— On the brain of a chimpanzee. Med. Bee, N. Y., 
Jan. 

Perier, Dr.— Sur la transformisme. Eev. d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 213-229. 

Eamon de Torres, Martinez J.— Contribuciou (a la antropologia. 
^ Forma el hombre un reino apartedentro delorden de la creacion ? 
EncicJ. med.-farm., Barcelona, 1879, iii. 

Eatcliffe, Dr.— On the pedigree of man. Contemp. Eev., Feb. 

Vaughn, Mgr. — L'homme : son origine, sa destine. Ann. d. philos. chre- 
tlemie, Jan. 

Ward, L. F. (Washington, D. C.)— Pre-social man. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 
Washington, i, p. GS. 

WiNCHELL, Alexander (Ann Arbor, Mich.)— Preadamites; or a dem- 
onstration of the existence of men before Adam ; together with 
a study of their condition, antiquity, racial affinities, and progress- 
ive dispersion over the earth. Chicago, S. C. Griggs & Co., 1880. 
1vol. 500 pp., with charts and other illustrations. 8°. 

[Although this work bears a controversial title, it is a most excel- 
lent summary of ethnology.] 

II. — Arch^i:ology. 

Abbott, C. C. (Cambridge, Mass.)— Flint chips. Eep. Peabody Museum, 
ii. p]). 50G-520. 



404 ANTHEOPOLOGY 

Aboriginal remains in the valley of the Shenandoah Eiver. Science, i, 

p. 262. 
Adams, W. H. (Elmore, 111.) — ^IVIounds in Spoon Eiver Yalley, 111. Smith - 

sou. Eep., 1879, p. 368. 
■ Vanished races in Spoon Eiver Valley, 111. Elmicood Gaz., 

Sept. 3, 1880. 
Adlee, Curtius F.," & G. Treu — Die Ausgrabnugen zn Olympia. 

IV. Uebersicht der Arbeiten und Funde vom Winter und Friih- 

jahr 1878-79. 39 Tafeln. Berlin, Ernst Wasmuth. {The AtJienceum, 

Sept. 4, 1880. Ee viewed by Julius Schubriog.) 
Alibert, Dr. L. — Les vestiges de I'industrie pal^olitique aux environs 

de Montauban. pp. 26, trois planches. 8°. (Extr. du Bee. Soc. d. sc.) 
A:\iEGHiNO, Florentino — Armes et instruments de I'homme prehis- 

torique des Pamjias. Bev. d'anthroi)., 1880, pp. 1-12. 
American Antiquarian Society (Worcester Mass.) — Proceedings, ISTo. 75. 

April, 1880, p. 59. "The Landa alphabet," by Philipp J. J. Valen- 

tini. Ph. D. 
Proceedings, No. 76. Oct., 1880. " Mexican Paper," by Philipi) 

J. J. Valentini, Ph.D. p. 82. "Notes on the bibhography of 

Yucatan and Central America," by Ad. F. Bandelier. 
Anales de Guauhtitlan. iip. 1-32. Appendix to An. d. Musco nacional 

de Mexico. 
AxcELON — Sur les habitations lacustres coniuies sous le nom de bri- 

quetagesdelaSeille. Paris, 1880. 8<^. (From Bull. Soe. d'anfhro2).) 
Anderson, William Gilbert (Quincy, 111.) — Mounds near Quincy, 

111. Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 341. 
Andrews, Frank. D. (Vineland, N. J.) — Indian relics from Schoharie, 

N. Y. Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 391. 
Anger — Das gemischte Griiberfeld auf dem Neustadter Felde bei El- 

biug. Zfschr.f. EthrioJ., Berlin, 1880, pp. 106-125, 2 pi. 
xiRMSTRONG, Thomas (Ripon, Wis.) — Mounds in Winnebago County, 

Wisconsin. Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 335. 
Babbitt, Frances E. — Ancient quartz workers. Am. Antiquarian, iii, 

No. 1. 
Bacon, A. T. — The ruins of the Colorado Valley. Uppincotfs Mag., 

Nov. 
Barber, Edwin A. (Philadelphia, Penn.) — The fairy pipes of Great 

Britain. Westchester Bepublican, Sejit. 25, 1880. 
Beauchamp, W. M. (Baldwinsville, N. Y.) — WamiHim belts of the Six 

Nations. Am. Antiquarian, ii, p. 228 ; Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. — . 
[In the files of the Onondaga Gazette, communications by the same 

author about the Onoudagas and relics of the ancient inhabitants. 

In the Skaneateles Democrat, an article on the Elbridge forts. 

Manuscript descriptions of Onondaga remains were deposited with 

the Buffalo Historical Society, the Skaneateles Library Association, 

and the Peabody Museum, at Cambridge, Mass.] 



ANTHROPOLOGY, 405 

Blake, C, J. — Ou the occurrence of exostoses within the external audi- 
tory canal in prehistoric man. Am. J. OtoL, N. Y., 1880, ii, pp. 81-01. 

ULEicnER — Essai sur les temps prehistoriques en Alsace. Nancy, 1870. 

BoRLASE, W. C. — Indian money cowrie in a British barrow. Antiquart/, 
Ja.n. 

Bosc, E. — Dictionnaire general de I'archeologie et des anti(iuites chez 
les divers peuples. Paris. 

BouiLLEROT, A.— L'homme des cavernes et les animaux quaternaires 
autour de la montagne de Morey (Haute-Saone). Deuxiememeinoire 
d'archeologie prehistorique. Vesoul, 1880. 8*^. 

Brodhead, Cr. C. — Prehistoric evidences in Missouri. Smithson. Tli'i^., 
1870. 

Brodnax, Benjamin II. ( Planters ville. La.) — Mounds in Morehouse Par- 
ish, Louisiana. Smithson. Eep., 1870, p. liS6. 

Brown, Edward — The pictured cave of La Crosse Valley. Am. Anti- 
quarian,y ii, No. 1. 

Burr, R. T. — Ruins in White River Canon, Pima County, Arizona. 
Smithson. Rep., 1870, p. 333. 

Cartailiiac, Emile — L'age de la pierre en Asie. Lyon, 1880. pp. 20, 
l^lanche. 8°. 

(.'ase, Tiieo. S. (Kansas City, ]Mo.) — An excursion to the birtliplace of 
Montezuma. Kansas City Rev., Nov., 1880. 

CiiANTRE, E. — Notes anthropologiques. Relatious entre les sistres 
boudhiques et certains objets de I'age du bronze europeen. Lyon, 
1880. 8^. [Extr. Compt.-rcnd. Cong. d. OricntaUstes, Lyon, 1878, iii.] 

CiiARNAY, Desire — The ruius of Central America. The North Ameri- 
can Review for Sept., Oct., Nov., and Dec, 1880. 

[Record of an exploration of the ruined cities of Mexico and 
Central America, written by Desire Charnay, chief of an expedition 
sent out last year by Mr. Pierre Lonllard, of New York, in conjunc- 
tion with the French Government. Principal fruits of the expedi- 
tion during 1880: Development of the plan of the ancient city of 
Teotihuacan j exi)loration of two imi^ortant places of refuge and 
burial at Amecameca, near Popocatipetl, resulting in the finding of 
a large and unique collection of pottery and other utensils, also 
some human remains ; exploration of Tula, the ancient metropolis of 
the Toltecs. Mr. Charnaj^ has demonstrated, 1, identity of architec- 
tural forms and principles between these cities and the cities of 
Yucatan, and Guatemala ; 2, inferred identity of race — Toltec ; 3, 
comparatively recent age of these ruins — dating from not earlier 
than the 11th century of our era.] 

CiiAVERO, Alfredo (Mexico) — La piedra del sol, segundo estudio. 
An. d. Musco nacional de Mexico^ ii, pp. 1-40, illus., pp. 107-120. 

Chevers — The physician's leisure ; a plea for the study of archteology. 
Med. Times & Gaz., Lond., 1880, pp. 307-371. 

Clc>dd, E. — The later stone age in Europe. Modern Rev., July. 



406 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Cloquet, Dr. N. — Etudes surle prebistorique a I'Exposition universelle 
do Paris, 1878. Mous, 1880. pp. G4. SP. 

CoLLETT, John — " A Vinceunes Monud " and " The Woitliiiigton 
Mound." Indiana Eep. of Statistics and Geol., 1880, pp. 387-300. 

CoLLiGrNON, Bene — Description des ossemeutshnmain.s fossiles trouves 
dans le Lelim de Bollviller. Eev. (Vanthrop.^ 18-^), pp. 395-413. 

OoNANT, A. J., S. D. Peet, & O. T. Mason— The connection between 
arclifeology and history. Kansas City Rev., March, 1880. 

Costa, B. P. de — Glacial man in America. Po2). So. Month., Nov. 

Cox, Joseph (President Madisouville Lit. and Sc. Soc, Ohio) — Account 
of an ancient cemetery near Batavia Junction, Ohio. Gincin. Daily 
Gaz., April 29, 1879. 

Gushing, Prank H. — Relic hunting. Tr. Antlirop. Soc. Wash iuf/ton, i, p. 3. 

D'ACY, M. E., & M. Aecelin — Lettre et reponse: La classification 
archeologique appliquee a I'epoque quaternaire dans la Eevue des 
questions historiques. pp. 605-633, 4'' aunee, 2" livr., Bruxelles, 1880. 

Daly", D. D. — Caves at Sungei Batu, in Selangor. J. Straits Branch 
Boy. Asiatic Soc, iii. 

Dawkins, W. Boyd — Early man in Britain and his place in the Terti- 
ary period. London, Macmillan & Co., 1880. 

Dawson, J. W. (President McGill College, Montreal)— Fossil men and 
their modern representatives : an attempt to illustrate the character 
and condition of prehistoric men in Europe, by those of the Ameri- 
cau races. Montreal, Dawson Brothers, 1880. 1 vol. viii, 348 pp. 
Illus. 120. 

The chain of life in geological time. (Last chapter on the advent 

of man.) Eebgious Tract Society, London. 272 pp. sm. 8°. 

The antiquity of man and the origin of species. Princeton Rev., 



Nov., 1880. 
De Hass, Wills — The mound-builders: an inquiry into their assumed 

southern origin. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 55. 
Delbos, J. — Notice sur la decouverte de squelettes humains dans le 

Lehm de Bollviller (eaut-Rhiu). Rev. (Vanthrop., 1880, pp. 385-394. 
Ebers, H. — Modern results of Egyptology. Deutsche Rundschau, May. 
Engelhardt, C. — L'ancien age du fer en Selands et dans la partie 

orientale du Dauemark : les sepultures et squelettes. Traduit par E. 

Beauvois. Copenhague, 1880. pp. 60. 8°. Gravures et planclies. 
Evans, Samuel — Notes on the principal mounds in the Des Moines 

Valley. Smithson. Rep., 1879, p. 344. 
Failyer, G. H. (Manhattan, Kans.)— Traces of aborigines in Riley 

County. (Read at the 13th annual meeting Kansas Acad, of Sc.) 
Farquharson, R. J. (Davenport, Io\Ya)— Prehistoric trephining in 

America. (Read at Am. Assoc, Boston, 1880.) 

The contemporaneous existence of man and the mastodon in 

America. Id. 
Faure, L. — !Etat actuel du problerae de I'existence de I'homme a Page 

tertiaire. Gaz. med. de VAlg6rie, Alger, i^p. 145 ; 149 ; 158. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 407 

Fergusson, James & James Burgess — The cave temples of luclia. 

Printed and publislied by order of IT. M. Secretary of State for 

India. W. II. Allen «& Co., London. (Keviewed in The Allien(ciim. 

Sept. 25, 1880; The Academy, Oct. 30, 1880.) 
Fischer, H. — Ueber prtibistorisclie Kiesehverkzenge. A)x-h. f. An- 

throj)., 1880, xii, pp. 273-292, 1 map. 
Gannett, n. — Prebistoric rnins in Southern Colorado. Poj). Sc. Month., 

March. 
Gaudry, Albert — Materiaux pour I'histoire des temps quaternaires. 

2™" fasc. De I'existence des Saigas en France a l'6poque quaternaire. 

Paris, Savy, 1880. pp. 03-82, 3 pi. 4°. 
Geikie, J. — Prehistoric Europe: zoogeological sketch. 8°. With map 

and illus. London, Edward Stanford. 
Gervais, Henri, & rLORENTiNO Ameghino — Les mammiferes fos- 

siles de FAraerique du Sud. Paris, Savy, 1880. xi, 227 pp. 8°. 
Gesner, William— Mica beds in Alabama. Smithson. Rep., 1879, 

p. 382. 
GowsE, F. S. — Bulandshar antiquities. J. Eoij. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, i, iv. 
Haines, Henry^ W. — Fossil man. Fop. Sc. Month., July. 
Haldeman, S. S. — Aboriginal pottery and stone implements. Sci- 
ence, i, p. 112. 
Hall, J. H. — Cypriote inscriptions of the Di Cesnola collection in the 

Metropolitan 3Iuseum of Art, iSTew York City. J. Am. Oriental 

Soc, X. 
Heath, Eev. Duncar — Squeezes of Hamath inscriptions. J. Anthrop. 

Inst, ix, N'o. 4, pp. 309-375. 
Henderson, J. G. — Ancient mounds near Naples, Illinois. Science, 1, 

p. 112. 
HoLBROOK, Watson C. (Coleta, 111.) — Antiquities of Whitesides County, 

111. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sc, lo-wa. 
Prehistoric altars in Whitesides County, 111. (Eead at Am. 

Assoc, Boston, 1880.) 
Hough, James — Mounds in Washington County, Miss. Smithson. 

Pep., 1879, p. 383. 
IIovEY, H. C. — On the alabaster quarries and flint works found in 

Wyandot Cave. Am. Antiquarian, iii, No. 1. 
Jackman, F. — Mounds and earthworks of Rush County, Indiana. 

Smithson. Rep., 1879, p. 374. 
Jones, Charles C. — Primitive manufacture of spear and arrow-points 

along the line of the Savannah River. Smithson. Rep., 1879, p. 376. 
Kains-Jackson — Our ancient monuments and the land around them. 

With an introduction by Sir John Lubbock. London, Elliott Stock. 

(Reviewed in The Athcnccum, Aug. 7, 1880.) 

[This volume relates to the scheme so long fostered by Sir John 

Lubbock of protecting the ancient monuments by legislation.] 
Karner, p. L. — Kiinstliche Hohlen in Niederosterreich. Mitth. d. 

Anihrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 1880, ix, pp. 289-342, 3 pi. 



408 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Kerr, W. C. — The mica veins of North Carolina. Tr. Am. In U. Mining 

Engineers^ Feb., 1880. 

[Alhides to ancient Indian mica mining.] 
Kessler, F.— Etudes pr6historiques. L'homme tertiaire. Belfort, 1880. 

8o. 
Knowles, W. J. — Portstewart and other flint factories in the north 

of Ireland. J. AntJirop. Inst, ix, No. 3, pp. 320-329. 
■ Flint implements from the valley of the Bann. J. Anthrop. 

Inst, X, No. 2, pp. 150-152. 
Lagneau, Gust AVE — Monuments prehistoriques du Berry, par Ludovic 

Martinet. 
Lewis, H. C. — Antiquity of man in America geologically considered. 

Science, Oct. ]G. 

The Trenton gravel and its relation to the antiquity of ]uai]. 

(Eead before the mineralogical and geological section of the Acad. 
Nat. Sc. Phila., Nov. 24, 1879.) 

LoRTET, E. & Ernest Chantre — l^tudes paleontologiques dans le 
bassin du Ehone. Periode tertiaire. Eecherches sur les mastodontes 
et les faunes mammalogiques qui les accompagnent. Lyon, Georg, 
1880. 33 pp., 17 pi. 40. (Extr. du Mus. d'Hist. nat. deLyon.) 

Love, Albert C. — Prehistoric relics in Lowndes County, Miss. Am. 
Antiquarian, ii. No. 4. 

Low, Charles F. — Archaeological explorations by the Literary and 
Scientific Society of Madisonville, Ohio. Part iii. Jan. to June 30, 
1880. 

Lucante, a. — Essai geograi:)hique sur les cavernes de la France et de 
Fetranger. France: Eegion du sud. Angers, 1880. ]}\). 76. 8°. 

Lull, Edward P. — On the determination of the age of j^rehistoric 
remains. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. WasJiington, i, p. 27. 

MacAdams, William — Antiquities of Jersey and Calhoun Counties, 
III. (Published in county history.) 

Ancient agricultural implements of stone. (Eead before Amer- 
ican Association for the Advancement of Science, at Boston meet- 
ing, Aug. 30, 1880.) Science, Sept. 11. 

Sea-shells in ancient mounds. (Eead before A. A. A. S., at 

Boston meeting, Aug. 31, 1880.) 

The prehistoric cave men of Illinois. (Eead before Nat. Hist. 

Soc. of Illinois, Springfield, Feb. 10, 1880.) 

The pipes of the mound builders and pottery- makers. (Eead 

before A. A. A. S., Boston meeting, Aug. 31, 1880.) 

Stone implement from base of drift. (Eead before A. A. A. S._, 

Boston meeting, Aug. 30, 1880.) 

Ancient mounds of Illinois. (Eead before A. A. A. S., Boston, 

Aug. 28, 1880.) 

Mound-builders and cave men of Illinois. (Eead before Chicago 

Academy of Sciences, March 23, 1880.) 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 409 

McGuiKE, J. I). — Shell-lieaps of South Hi\er, MarylaiKl. IV. Antlirop. 
Soc. Washington, i, p. 31. 

McLean, J. P.— A study of Americau archaeology. Universfdist Quar- 
terly, July. 

Mastodou, mammoth, aud man. 2d ed. Cincinnati, liobeit 

Clarke & Co. 

3IAETINET, LuDOVic— Monuments prehistoriques du Berry. Eev. Wan- 

throp., 1880, pp. 4G9-492. 
Mason, Otis T.— Observation on Aztec and Guatemalan antiquities. Tr. 

Antlirop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 0. 
Millescamps, G.— Silex failles et emmanches de I'epoque merovin- 

gieune. Paris, 1880. p. 8. 8°. 
Mitchell, Brainerd— Mounds in Pike County, 111. Smithson. Kep., 

1879, p. 307. 
Morgan, Lewis H.— Description of an ancient stone pueblo on the 

Animas Kiver, K. Mex., with a ground plan. Eep. Peabody Mus., 

ii, pp. 530-550. 
Morse, E. S.— Dolmens in Japan. Pop. Sc. Month., March. 

The Omori shell mounds. (From A^atw/T, April 15, 1880.) Some 

recent publications on Japanese archeology. (From the Am. Nat- 
nraUst, Sept., 1880.) Pamphlet pub. at Salem, Mass., 1S80. 

Newlon, W. S. (Oswego, Kans.) — Glacial scratches and evidences of 
human agency in petrified wood. (Eead at the 13th annual meet- 
ing, Kansas Acad, of Sc.) 

NoERis, P. W.— Prehistoric remains in Montana, between Fort Ellis 
and the Yellowstone Pdver. Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 327. 

Oehler, Arthur- Stone cists near Highland, Madison County, 111. 
Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 300. 

Oppert, M.— La methode chronologique. Rev. hist., July. 

Peet, Stephen D.— The emblematic mounds aud the totemic system 
of the Indian tribes. (Eead before the Wisconsin Acad, of Sc. and 
Art.) Am. Antiquarian, in, No. 1. 

[Stephen D. Peet, of Clinton, Wis., editor of the American Anti- 
quarian, a quarterly journal of anthropology, which, during 1880, 
appeared in its second volume. Mr. Peet has contributed largely to 
his own periodical, and also has published the following : The mound- 
builders: a classification of the different groups of their works 
(Eead before the Congres des Americanistes at Luxembourg, Sept., 
1870. Eepublished in J.m. Antiquarian, ii, Ko. 3.] 

Pengelly, W.— The time that has elapsed since the era of the cave- 
men of Devonshire. Sclent. Man., Oct. 7. 

Perkins, G. H. (Museum of Univ. of Vt.)— Archeology of the Cham- 
plain Valley. Proc. Am. Assoc, Saratoga meeting, i)p. 528-539. 

Eelation of the archeology of Vermont to that of the adjoining 

States. Science, Oct. 2, 1880. 

T'etrie, W. M. Flinders— Stoneheuge: Plans, descn[>ti()n, and the- 
ories. London, Stanford. (Eeviewed in Athenanim, Sept. 18, 1880.) 



410 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

PiETTE, fiDOUARD — jSTomcnclature des temi»s aiit-hropologiques primi 
tifs. Laon, 1880. pp. 8. 8°. 

Potter, W. B., & Dr. Edward Evers — Contributions to the archae- 
ology of Missouri, by the archaeological section of the St. Louis 
Academy of Sciences. Part I. Pottery. 30 pp., 5 maps, 24 plates. 
4°. (Review in the Am. NaturaUsf, by O. T. ]Mason, and in the 
Am. Art Rev., by F. W. Putnam.) 

Pijeservation of monuments. Committee on classifying and preserv- 
ing the megalithic monuments of Prance. Rev. fTanthrop., 1880, pp. 
188-189. 

Price, F. G. Hilton — Further notes on the Ivomano-British cemetery 
at Seaford, Sussex. J. Anthrop. Imt., x, Xo. 2, pp. 130-136. 

Quick, Edgar E. — Mounds in Franklin County, Indiana. Smithson. 
Rep., 1879, p. 370. 

Eau, Charles (Washington, D. C.)— Tablero del Palenque en el Museo 
Nacional de los Estados-Unidos. (Translated in the Anales del 
Museo naeional de Mexico, by Sres. Joaquin Davis and Miguel Peres.) 

Eedding, B. B. — Prehistoric treasures. Californian, Feb. 

Eenault, Dr. Ch. — Inventaire des decouvertes prehistoriques et gallo- 
romaines faites dans les environs de Cherbourg. Cherbourg, 1880. 
pp. 30. so. 

Reynolds, Elmer E. — Ossuary at Accotink, Va. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 
Washington, i, p. 92. 

Indian mounds in tlie Sheimndoah Valley. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 

W((shinfiton, i, }>. 103. 

Turtle-back celts and their uses. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, 

'•, p. 30. 

On the aboriginal shell heaps at Pope's Creek, Md. Tr. An- 
throp). Soc. Washington, i, p. 23. 

Aboriginal i^aint quarry. Tr. Anilirop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 

11. 

Aboriginal cemeteries near Piscataway, Md. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 



Washington, i, j). 13. 

The ancient soapstone quarries near Washington, D. C. Eep. 

Pcahody Mus., ii, pp. 526-535. 

Rhode, J. — Los pueblos del Rio Negro. £ol. Inst. Argent. Geogr., 1880, 
No. 3, pp. 151-157. 

RiALLE, GiRARD DE — Revicw of Schliemaun's Troy and Mycenae. 
Rev. d''anthrop., 1880, pp. 77-80; of German anthroi)ology, p. 97. 

Rice, A. Thorndike — Ruined cities of Central America. N. Am. Rev. 
Aug. 

EoBERTSON, R. S. (Fort Wayne, Ind.) — The mound builders of Amer- 
ica. Mag. Am. Hist., iv, p. 174. (Reprinted from the Compte-rendK, 
of the Congres international des americanistes, Luxembourg, 1877.) 

RocHEBRUNE, U. T. DE — Recherclics d'ethuographie botanique sur la 
liore des sepultures peruviennes d'Ancon. Bordeaux, pp. 20. 8°. 
(Extr. des Actes de la Societe Unneenne.) 



ANTJIKOPOLOGY. 411 

IJooK, Miles — On the effacing- i)()\vor of troi)ical ioicst-giowtli in Trini- 
dad Island. Tt\ Anthrop. Soc.Wdfihington, i, j). LMi. 

KosENBEKd, A. — Dio Weikstiitten dcs Steinzeitaltcrs anf dor Tn.scl 
Kiigen. Zfschr.f. FJhnol, Berlin, 1880, pp. 17r.-19L*. 

llYGn, O. — Norwegian aiiticinities: Arranged^uid ex])lained by Prof. (). 
Rygli, of Cliristiania. v. 1. London and (Miristiania. (Reviewed 
in The Athenwiim, Sept. 11, 1880; The Academi/, Ang. 14.) 

Salisbury, Stephen, jr. (Worcester, Mass.) — Tlie Mayas 5 Discoveries 
in Yucatan; The Mexican calendar stone; Maya arclneology ; Mex- 
ican copper tools; Maya chronology. Taniphlets. 

Satow, Ernest — Ancient sepulchral mounds in Kaudzuke, Japan. 
Tr. Asiatic Soc. of Japan, viii, pt. iii, pp. 3o.')-3G8, 41 illus. 

Savage, J. — Stonie implements found in Trego County, Kansas, (liead 
at loth annual meeting, Kansas Acad. Sc.) 

Short, John T. — The North Americans of antiquity: Their origin, 
migrations, and typo of civilization considered. New York, Har- 
per & Brothers, 1880. 1 vol. pp. o44, illus. 80. 

[A very careful resume of the subject, drawn from older authorities 
and from the latest investigations by the Geological and Geograph- 
ical Surveys of the Territories.] 

Smith, V. A. — Obser\;itions on some Chandel anticpnties. J. Roij. 
Asiatic Soc. Bengal, i, iv. 

Smith, Worthington G. — Palaeolithic implements from the valley of 
the Brent, Axe, K. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix. No. 3, pp. 310-320 ; No. 4, 
p. 369. 

Smucker, Isaac — Cresap and Logan. (Occupies 11 pages in the sta- 
tistical report of the Secretary of State's report for Ohio. In the 
same volume are 11 pages on Colonel Crawford's expedition.) 

Flint Eidge : Its geography, geology, mineralogy, archajology 

ethnology, and palteontology. (Read before the Newark Lyceum. 
Published in the Newarl- American, and after in the Plistory of 
Licking County.) 

The Old Fort: A brief description of the Newark work. (His- 



tory of Licking County. In the same volume is a chapter on AVelsh 

settlements in America.) 

[Isaac Smucker, of Newark, Ohio, is the author of several fugitive 

papers of historical and ethnological importance, a part of which 

are embodied in the History of Licking County, Ohio, a work of 8l'2 

double-column pages. The titles of the papers, together with their 

manner of publication, appear above.] 
Sourdeval, Ch. de — Le cheval a cote de I'homme et dans I'histoire, 

Paris, Hetzel, 1880. ii, 333 pp. 18°. 
Stone, W. I. — Remains of an ancient Indian work on Fish Creek, 

near Saratoga Springs. Mag. Am. Hist., July. 
Stuart, YiLLiERS— Nile gleanings. 58 plates. Scribner & Welford. 



412 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Thompson, Theron — Mounds in Muscatine County, loMa, and iiock 
Island County, Illinois. Smitbson. Hep., 1879. 

TiLLOTSON, D. C. (North Topeka, Kaus.) — Fragments of pottery from the 
Upper Solomon. (Read at the 13th annual meeting Kansas Acad, of 
Sc.) 

ToELLNEii, Adolpit — Antiquities of Itock Island County, III. Smith- 
son. Rep., 1879, p. 803. 

Vikin's (A) ship. (Architect.) Van Kostran(Vs Mag., Oct. 

YoGDES, A. AV". (lieut. of artillery, Fortress Monroe, Va.) Xotes on a 
lost race of America, containing a description of the Tampa (Fla.) 
shell mounds. Am. XaturaUst, xiii, 1879, p. 9. 

Who built the mounds? A. republication of Heckewelder's 

traditions of the Delawares. CarfersriJIe (Ga.) Express, July 19, 
1879 ; lY. r. Times, July 25, 1879. 

Walker, S. T. — Preliminary explorations among the Indian mounds in 
Southern Florida. Smithson. Rep., 1879, pp. 392-127. Ilhis. 
[A very imi^ortant contribution to knowledge.] 

West, E. P. — Chambered mounds near Kansas City. (Read at 13th 
annual meeting Kansas Acad, of Sc.) 

A buried race in Kansas. Kansas City Rev., Jan. 

Whittlesey, Charles (Cleveland, Ohio) — Relics of aboriginal art, 

and their ethnological value. No. 52. Western Reserve and North- 
ern Ohio Historical Society. May, 1880. 

Relics of aboriginal art, and their ethnological value. Am. 

Antiquarian, iii, No. 1. 

Wiener, C. — Gran-Chimu et la ville de Cuzco. Bull. Soe. de f/eogr., 
Oct. 

Perou et Bolivie: Recit de voyage suivi d'etudes archeolo- 

giques et ethnographiques et de notes sur I'ecriture et les langues 
des populations iudiennes. Paris, Hachette et Cie. 1 vol. 79(> 
pp., 1,100 cuts, 27 charts, 18 plans, gr. 8°. 

[In 1875, Mr. Wiener was sent by the minister of public instruc- 
tion of France to Peru and Bolivia, upon an archaeological and 
ethnographic mission. The volume above mentioned is the report 
of his labors.] 

Williams, A. M. (Kansas City, Mo.) — The })ueblos of New Mexico. 
(Read at the 13th annual meeting, Kansas Acad, of Sc.) 

WooLLEY, Chas. F. — Shell-heaps and sand-fields. Am. Antiquarian, 
I p. 253. 

Indian village sites. Id., iii, }). 59. 

Indian village sites in Monmouth Co., N. J. Xeic Jersey Stand- 
ard, Nov. and Dec, 1879, and Jan., 1880. 

WoRSAAE, J. J. A. — The i)reservation of antiquities and national mon- 
uments in Denmark. Translated by Otis T. Mason. Smithson. 
Rep., 1879, pp. 299-309. 

Zabarowski, — . — Tertiary num. Kansas City Rev., Oct. 



ANTHEOrOLOGY. 



III. — Biology of man. 



413 



Allen, X.— Laws of iiiberitaiice. Sanitarian, N. Y., 1880, pp. 385-390. 
Amat, L.— Calcul Diental ct couformation cranieniie. Bev. scient, Paris, 

1880, pp. 29-32. 
Anatomy.— Comparative. Science, i, p. 322.— Enceplialic Id, p. 7.'5. 
ANTHEOroiD brain. Science, i, p. 25. 
Antiikopometric comraittee of tbo Britisb Association, Extracts 

from tbe report of tbe. J. Anthroj). Inst, ix, :N'o. 3, pp. 315-352. 
Ayrton, Matilda Chaplin- Recbercbes siir les dimeusious geiierales 

et sur les developpements du corps cbez les Japonais. Paris, 1879. 
Baillarger & Krisiiaber— Cretin. Diet, encyd. d. se. mcd., Paris, 

1879, 1"^ s., xxiii, pp. 126-11(5. 
Beard, G. :\I.— Englisb and American pbysiqne. J\r. Am. Bev., 1879, 

cxxix. 
Benedikt, :M.— Ueber Kraniometrie. CcntraJhJ. f. Kervenh., Coblenz, 

1879, ii. 
Weitere metbodiscbc Studien zur Kranio- und Kepbalometrie. 

Wien, 1880. 8°. (From MittJi. d. Anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 1880, 

ix, pp. 348-371.) 
Benzengue, Dr.— Les soiirds luuets de Moscou. Bev. dhinthrop., 1880, 

pp. 27-33. 
Bertillon, J.— Statistique antbropometrique et medicale des eleves 

des ecoles primaires de Bruxelles. Ann. dc dcmog. inteniat, Paris, 

1879, iii. 

Blache, Pv.— Developpement pbysiqne de I'enfant depuis la naissauce 
jnsqu'au sevrage. Union mcd., Paris, 1880, 3'"" s., xxix, pp. 386; 
433; 441. 

Blake, C. J.— Exostoses in tbe ear canals of tbe monud bnilders. 
Tr. Am. Otol. Soc, Boston, 1880, pp. 417-419; Am. J. Otol, X. Y., 

1880, pp. 295-297. 

Bono, G. B.— Delia capacita orbitale e cranica e delF indice cefal- 
orbitale iiei normali, pazzi, cretini, c delinqnenti. Arch, diimchlat., 
etc., Torino, 1880, pp. 299-313. 

BORDIER— Snr les cranes d'assassins. Bull. Soc. dhtnthrop. de Baris, 
1879. 

Boteler, W. C— Pecubarities of tbe American Indians from a physio- 
logical and patbological standpoint. Maryland ilf. J., Balti- 
more, 1880-81, vii, pp. 54-58. 

Broca, Paul— Crane et cervean d'lui bomme atteint de la deformation 
toulousaine. Bull. Soc. dhmthroi}. de Baris, 1879, ii. 

Sur la determination de Tage moyen. Bull. Soc. d'anthrop. de 

Baris, 1879, iii. 

Sur un crane de fellab et sur I'usure des dents. Bull. Soc. 

dhmthrop. de Baris, 1879, ii. 



414 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Beoca, Paul,. — Instructions generales pour les recliercbes antbropolo- 

giques ii faire sur les vivants. 2™'' ed. Paris, G. Masson, 1879.. 

301 pp., 4 pi. 8°. 
Burnett, Swan M. — Color blindness as affected by race. Tr. Anthrop.. 

Soc. Washington, i, p. 7. 
Chassagn^e & Dally — Kecbercbes autbropometriques sur les effets de 

la gyninastitpie d'entrainenient. Bei\ {Vmithrop., 1880, pp. 230-264. 
Delisle, F. — Contributions a I'etude des deformations artibcielles du 

crane. Gaz.med.-cUr.de Toulouse, 1880, pp. 194; 202; 210; 218; 

226; 231; 242; 250. 

Contribution a I'etude des deformations artificielies du crane. 

Paris, Parent, 1880. 67 pp. 8^. (Tbese de doctoral.) 

DucATTE, ED3I0ND — La luicrocepbalie au point de vue de I'atavisme. 
Paris, 1880. 95 pp. 4°. 

Duval, Mathias — Itecbercbes sur I'origine reelle des nerfs craniens. 
J. deVanat. etde Ja pJiysiol., sept. 1876, mars et nov. 1877, Jan. et juil- 
let 1878, sept. 1879, mai-juin, sept.-oct. 1880. 

Fallot — Sur le cerveau d'une jeune ludienne nee a Caracas (Vene- 
zuela). Bull. Soc. dhmthrop. de Paris, 1880, pi). 145-150. 

Sur le cerveau d'uu Malais ne a Mauille. Ibid., pp. 441-115. 

Faulds, H. — On tbe skin furrows of tbe band. Nature, London, 1880, 

p. 605. 
Fere, Charles — Essai d'antbropometrie. (Comparaison des diametre^ 

bitrocbanterien et biiliaque.) Rev. dhmtlirop., 1880, pp. 193-202. 
Flower, W. H. — On tbe cranial cbaracters of tbe natives of tbe Fiji 

Islands. J. Anthrop. Inst., x, Xo. 2, i^p. 153-174. 
Fowler, E. P. — Are brains of criminals anatomical perversions? 3Ied.- 

Chir. Quart., K Y., 1880-81, pp. 1-32. 
Garcin, C — La tete et le crane d'un jS'eoCaledouien. Marseille med., 

1879, xvi. 

Gildmeister, J. — Zur Hobenmessung des Scbiidels. Arch. f. A nthrop., 

Brnscbwg., 1880, pp. 449-451. 
Granjux — L'bygiene de la premiere enfance cbez les negres de la Cote 

des esclaves. Gaz. ohst., Paris, 1880, ix, pp. 81-84. 
Granville, J. M. — A note on tbe intention in tbe determination of sex, 

and tbe mental and pbysical inberitance of cbildren. lancet, Loud., 

1880, pp. 050-652. 

Hadra, B. E. — Mensuration of tbetborax below tbe (\\Q.\}\M'i\gm.' Boston 

M. rf: *S'. J., 1880, pp. 247-249. 
Harris, R. P. — Foot-binding in Ningpo, Cbina. Med. A Surg. Beportcry 

Pbila., 1880, p. 360. 
Hay'MOND, W. S. — Human longevity, Tr. Indiana M. Soc, Indianap.,. 

1880, pp. 73-79. 
Ireland, W. W. — Xotes on left-bandedness. Brain, London, 1880-81,. 

pp. 207-214. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 415 

JuKOVSKi, I. — Observations on the weight and measure of iniants. St. 

Petersburg, 1880. ii, pt. i, pp. 71-98. [In Eussian.] 
KOTELMANN, L. — Die Augen von 9 Laplauderii, 3 Patagonieru, 13 

Nubiern, and 1 Noger voiu Weissen Nil. Jierl. Min. Wchnschr., 

1879, xvi. 

KiJSTNER — Die Hiiufigkeit der angeborenen Plattt'iisse. Me<J.-ekir. Cen- 

tralbl, Wien, 1880, p. 532. 
Lacassaigne — Eiclierche su 1,333 tatuagzi di (h'linquenti. Arcli. di 

psichiat.j etc., Torino, 1880, pp. •138-143. 
Langer, C. — Ueber Form- und Maassverhiiltnissedes Korpers. Wien. 

med. Wchuschr., 1880, pj). 1357; 1392. 
Lavocat— Homotypie des luembres. Conformation de I'humerus des 

vertebres. Toulouse, Douladoure, 1880. 19 p[). 8^. (Extr. des 

Mem. Acad. d. sc. de Toulouse.) 
Leasuke, D. — The law of heredity. Tr. Miiniesota M. ^'oc., St, Paul, 

1880, pp. 123-119. 

Le Bon — Des differences de volume du crane suivant les races, les indi- 
vidus et les sexes. [Extract from his memoir crowned by the Societe 
d'anthropologie de Paris with the lirst prize.] Ga.r. d. liop., Paris, 

1879, lii. 

Lebon, G. — Resultats fournis par la mesurc des capacites de cranes 
ayant apparteuu a des hommes celebres. Compt. rend. Acad. d. sc, 
Paris, 1879, Ixxxix. 

Lenhossek, Joseph de — Des deformations artificielles du crane en ge- 
neral, de celles de deux cranes makrocephalestrouvees en Hongrie, 
et d'nn crane provenant des temps barbares du mOme temps. Buda- 
pest, 1880. 112 pp., 3 pi. 40. 

Magitot, E. — Sur Tusure spontanee des dents au point de vue eth- 
nique. Bull Soc. Wantlirop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 312-315. 

Mantegazza, Paolo — La riforma craniologica. Arcli. x)er Vantrop., 
Firenze, 1880. 

Maeignan, E. — La trepanation neolithique. Review in Gaz. hehd. d. 
sc. med. de Montpel., 1880, ii, pp. 231-233. 

Mathouillet, Pierre Albert— Etude sur la scaphocephalie. Paris, 

1880. p. 62, Xo. 142. 4°. 

Meeh, K.— Oberflachenmessung'en des menschlichen Korpers. Ztsclir. 

f. BioL, Miinchen, 1879, xv. 
MoDEGLiANi, L. — Di alcuiie line faciali trasverse nel cranio di varie 

razze. Arch, per Vantrop., Firenze, 1879, ix. 
MoNSABRE, S. M. L. — La hermosura y grandeza del hombre. Sentido 

cafo7., Barcelona, 1880, ii, 525; 542; 557; 621; 637; 683. 
Monti — L' indice piii approssimativo per la scelta del soldato e la diame- 

tria toracica in sostituzione della mesura periferica. Gior. di med. 

mil., Eoma, 1880, xxvii, pp. 337-373, 8 tab. 
MoRSELLi, Enrico — Critica e riforma del metodo in antropologia fon- 

data sulle leggi statistiehe e biologiche dei valori seriali e sulP esperi- 

mento. Eoma, eredi Bolta, 1880. 178 pp. 8°. 



416 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Ogston, F., jr. — On the average lengtli and weight of matnre new-born 

Scotch children. Ediiih. M. J., 1880, pp. 603-615. 
Paoli, G. de — Quatro crani di delinquenti. Arch, di p,sieMat., etc., 

Torino, 1880, i, pp. 337-342. 
QuATREFAGES, A. DE — Les crancs finuois. J. d. savants, mai-juin 

1880. 
& Ernest T. Ha^iy — Crania cthuica. Les cranes des races hn- 

maines, decrits et fignres d'apres les collections du IMuseatn d'his- 

toire naturelle de Paris, de la Societe d'anthropologie de Paris, et 

les principales collections de la France et de I'etrang.er.* Accom- 

pagne de planches lithographiees d'apres uatnre, par H. Formant, 

et illnstre de nombreuses figures intercalees dans le texte. livr. 9. 

pp. 353-400, 10 pi. Paris, Bailliere et flls, 1880. gr. in 4°. 

The crossing of the human races. Pop. Sc. Month., June. 

Review of Dr. Daniel Wilson's memoir entitled "Some Ameri- 
can illustrations of the evolution of new varieties of man." Rev. 

scient., Feb. 14, 1880. 
Eenaed, Leon — Des variations ethniques du maxillaire inferieur. 

Paris, 1380. 06 pp., IsV 81. 4°. 
Eene, a. — Relations qui existent entre la taille, la capacite vitale, la 

force d'inspiration et d'expiration, la force musculaire, etc. Gaz. 

d. hop., Paris, 1880, pp. 1202-1204. 
EiCHET, Charles — Essai sur les methodes numeriques qui permettent 

d'apprecier la fecondite et la vitalite. Rev. dhmthrop., 1880, pp. 203- 

212. 
EoYER, Mme. Clemence — Le systeme pileux chez I'homme et dans 

la serie des mammiferes. Rev. d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 13-26. 
RuMA, R. — Anthropometry: school children. St. Petersburg, 1880. 

pp. 05-131. 
Sauvage — "Crania ethnica" de MM. Quatrefages et Hamy. Rev. 

dhinthrop., 1880, p. 119. Revue anglaise, id. 338-144; Revue i)r6his- 

torique, id., p. 296. (See, also, pp. 327; 361 ; 525 ; 552; 697.) 
ScHAAFiiAUSEN — Uebcr die agyi>tischen Mumien in kraniologischer 

Beziehung. Sitzungsb. d. nied.-rhein. Gesellsch. d. Nat.- n Heilk. zu 

Bonn, 1879, p. 290. 
ScHOi.ER — Ophthalmologische Untersuchungenan Nubiern und Xegern. 

Ztschr.f. Uthnol, Berlin, 1880, xii, pp. 59-68. 
LTeber die Stellung der Ophthalmologie zur Anthropologic. 

Arch: f. path. Anat., Berlin, 1879, Ixxvii. 
Semalle, R. — Sur la generation an point de vue chronologique. Bull. 

Soc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 295-301. 
SoKOLOFF, N. D. — K charakteristiske jiolovo detelnosti jentschinkrest- 

jauok severo vostochnago ugla Moskovskago ujezda. [Puberty in 

female peasants in Russia.] Vrach. Vaidom., St. Petersb., 1880, v, 

pp. 1367-1369. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 417 

Spitska, E. C. — Contributions to imatomlcal anthropology, chiefly upon 
the eucephalon. IScience, i, 73; 125; 134; 170; 202; 235; 251; 303. 

1. A remarkable peculiarity of an anthropoid brain. Science, July 

17, 1880, 1 p. 

2. Architecture and mechanism of the brain. Chapters i-ii. 

(Reprinted.) J. Ncrv. t(; Ment. THs.. April and July, 1880. 
pp. lOG. 

3. Eace and insanity. (Reprinted.) J. Ncrv. d- Ment. Dis., Oct., 

1880, pp. 18. 

4. Monomania or Primilre Verriicktluit. ISt. Lirnu Clin. liec, Dec, 

1880. 

5. Development of the human ovvun, embryo, and foitus. St. Louis 

Clin. Bee, Jan., Feb., April, May, June, Aug., Sept., 1880. 
Stage, G. G. — Weight in the lirst year. Copenhagen, 1870. 
Stieda, L. — llistorische Bemerkungen liber den Processus marginalis 
des Jochbeins. VerJiandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch.f. Anthro^)., 1880, p. 219. 

Ueber die Berechuung des Schiidelindex aus Messungen an 

lebenden Menschen. Arch.f. Anthrop., Brnschwg., 1880, pp. 421- 
430. 

Taruffi, C. — Deli' aiitropometria e delle aiiomalie della coloua verte- 

brale. Ann. univ. di med. e chir., Milano, 1879, ccxxlix. 
Thoms, William J. — Exceptional longevity: its limits and frequency. 

A letter to Professor Owens. London, 1880. 1. s. 8°. 
TiTECA — Levee de milice de 1879 ; recherches relatives a la taille, au 

perimetre thoracique et au poids du corps. [Rapp.] Arch. med. 

beiges, Bruxelles, 1880, 3. s., xvii, pp. 89-130. 
TOPINARD, P. — Des difterents instruments d'anthropometrie. Bull. 

8oc. d'anthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 269-277. 

Etudes anthropometriques siir les canons. 1. Du tronc. Rev. 

d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 009-020. 

Review of Roberts' ''Manual of anthropometry." Rev. d^an- 



throp., 1880, p. 112. Revue americaine, pp. 145-157; of Flower, pp. 

493-500; Netherlands, p. 543; England, pp. 550-504; Ethnology, 

pp. 009. 
U.JFALVY — "Cranes tinuois"de M. Retziius. Rev. dhtntlirop., 1880, p. 

115. (For other reviews, see same journal, pp. 345; 353-358.) 
Usher, J. F, — Diminutive live births. Austral. AL J., INIelbourne, 1880, 

p. 30(). 
ViRCHOW R. — Alte Berliner Sehadel. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch. f. 

Anthrop., 1880, pp. 229-230. 
Hohlenschadel aus dem oberen Weichsel-Gebiet. Ztschr. f. 

EthnoL, Berlin, 1880, pp. 52-55. 
Ueber den Schiidel der jungen Gorilla. Monatshcr. d. I', preuss. 

Alcad. d. Wissensch., Berlin, 1880, pp. 510-541, i^l. 
Ueber einige Merkmale niederer Menscheurassen am Sehadel 

und iiber die Anwendung der statistischen Methode in der eth- 

nischen Craniologie. Ztschr. f. EthnoL, Berliu, 1880, xii, pp. 1-26. 
S. Mis. 31 27 



418 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Von Holder, H. — Ueber die in Deutschland vorkommeiiden von Herm 

Virchow den Friesen zugesprochenen niederen Schadelformen. 

Arch.f. Anthrop., 1880, xii, pp. 315-358. 
Wake, C. Staniland — La baibe consideree comme caractere de races. 

Eev. d'anthrop., 1880, pp. ol-TG. 
Waldmeyer, W. — Bemerkungen iiber die " Squama ossisoccipitis " mit 

besonderer Beriicksichtigung des "Torus occipitalis." Arch. f. 

Anthrop.^ Bruscliwg., 1880, pp. 453-401, 1 pi. 
Weisgerber, Henri — De I'indice thoracique. Paris, 1879. 
Wilson, J. — Ueber einen geschwanzten Mann von G-ozzo. Ztsclir. f. 

Uthnol, Berlin, 1880, p. 74. 
WoiNARSKi, S. E. A. Z. — Some statistics of the length and weight of 

children born in the Lying-in Hospital, Melbourne. Austral. M. 

J., Melbourne, 1879, i. 
Yarrow, H. C. — Medical facts relating to the Zufii Indians of New 

Mexico. Rooky Mountain M. Hev.^ Colorado Si^rings, 1880-81, pp. 

192-194. 

IV. — Comparative psychology. 

d'Abbadie — Sur la vision de la s6rie des nombres. Bull. Soc. Wan- 

throp. de Paris, 1880, pp. 216-224. 
Allen, Grant — Esthetic evolution in man. Mind, xx. 
Animal instinct in relation to the mind of man. Science, i, pp. 267-280. 
Anmal intelligence. {Westminster Rev.) Living Age, June 12. 
Fabre, J. H. — Souvenirs entomologiques : 6tudes sur Finstinct et les 

moeurs des insectes. Paris, Delagrave, 1880. 1 vol. 328 pp. 8^. 
Galton, F. — Mental imagery. [Fortnightly.) Pop. Sc. Month., Nov.; 

Living Age, Oct. 

Statistics of mental imagery. Mind, July. 

Visualized numerals. J. Anthrop. Inst., x, No. 1, pp. 85-102. 

Lindsay, W. Lauder — The moral sense in the lower animals. Pop. Se. 

Month., Feb. 
Porter, Prof. Samuel — Is thought possible without language ? Case 

of a deaf mute. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, p. 74. 
Preger, H. — Psychogenesis. Deutsche Rundschau, May. 
Preger, W. — Psychogenesis in the human infant. Pop. 8c. Month.^ 

Sept. 
St. Bona venture — L'origine desidees. Ann. de philosophie chretietme, 

Feb. 
Vanderkindere — Histoire des idees et des tendances de la Belgique 

depuis les temps les plus recul6s jusqu'a nos jours, bas^e sur la 

principe de I'h^redit^. Presse med. beige, Bruxelles, 1880, 345 ; 353. 

V. — Ethnology. 

Acosta, J. DE — The natural and moral history of the Indies. Eeprinted 
from the English edition by Edward Grimshaw, 1604, and edited 
with notes and an introduction by CI. R. Markham. 295 pp.,1 chart. 
8o. London, Hackluyt Society, 1880. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 419 

d'Albertis, L. M.— New Guinea : What I did and what I saw. 2 vols. 
Sampson, Low & Co. (Reviewed in The Academy^ Nov. 20, 1<S80.) 

Amada, J.- J. DA SiLVA — Ethnologie du Portugal. liev. d^anthrop., pp. 
265-281. 

Arviens, p.— Maleisch-Hollandscli-Atjebsche Woordenlijst. Amster- 
dam, de Bussy. 

Aeyas, Discussion sur I'origiue des. BulL Soe. dhmthrop. deFaris, 1879, 
ii, pp. 344, 443. 

Ayeest, Eev. W.— The anthropology of the Garos. Ind. Antiqucury, 
April. 

Beckwith, H. W. (Danville, 111.)— Historic notes on the Northwest, 
gleaned from early authors, old maps and MSS., private and official 
correspondence, and other authentic, though, for the most part, out 
of the way sources. 1 vol. 304 pp., 2 maps and several illustrations. 
No publisher, place, or date. 

Belle w, H. W. — The races of Afghanistan : being a brief account of 
the principal nations inhabiting that country. Calcutta, Tacker, 
Spink & Co. (Eeviewed in The Athetmum^ Aug. 7.) 

Beltrame, G. — Cause della barbaric, da cui fu sempre dominata de 
1' Africa, especialmente la parte centrale : Condizioue intellettuale 
e morale dei negri. Atti r. 1st. veneto., v, ser. 5, No. 1). 

Bird, Isabella L. — Unbeaten tracks in Japan. 2 vols., with map and 
illustrations. London, John Murray, 1880. 

BONWICK, JAiViES— Who are the Scotch ? London, David Bogue, 1880. 

Brackett, Albert G.— The Shoshones or Snake Indians, their relig- 
ion, superstitions and manners. Smithson. Pep., 1879, p. 328. 

Brunner, D. B. (Reading, Penn.)— The Indians of Berks County, Penn. 
[A series of illustrated articles in one of the Reading papers, to 
be collected in a volume when the series is concluded.] 

Calvert, P.— Ueber die asiatische Kiiste des Hellespont. Ztschr. f. 
mhnol, Berlin, 1880, xii, pp. 31-39. 

CoDRiNGTON, Rev. R. H.— Notes on the customs of Mota, Banks Islands, 
with remarks by the Rev. Lorimer Fison, Fiji. Communicated July 
10, 1879. Royal Society of Victoria (Australia). 8°. 25 pp. Ma- 
son, Firth & M'Cutcheon, Melbom-ne. 

CoLTEAU, E.— Promenade dans I'lnde et a Ceylon. Paris, Plon et Cie., 
1880. 436 pp., with chart. 18°. 

Creagh, J. — Armenians, Koords, and Turks. 2 vols. 8o. Loudon, 
Tinsley, 1S80. 

Dally— Review of Stephen Powers' work. Eev. d^anthroj)., 1880, p. 526. 

Delaporte, L. — Voyage au Cambodge. L'architecture Khmer. Paris, 
Delgrave, 1880. 462 pp., 175 tiessins, phctogr. et carte. 8°. 

DucARNE, L. — Conference sur les Zoulous et leur territoire. B' uxelles, 
1879. 36 pp. 8o. 

Dunbar, John B. (Deposit, N.Y.)— The Pawnee Indians; their history 
and ethnology (with text illustrations of exterior and interior of a 
Pawnee lodge), pp. 41. Mag. Am. Hist, April, 1880. 



420 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Dunbar, John B. — The Pawnee Indians; their habits and cnstoms 
(with map of Pawnee territory in 1833). pp. 23. Mag. Am. Hist., 
XoY. 1880. 

Sketch of Pitalesharu, head chief of the Pawnees (with portrait 

showing full Pawnee costume). 3 i^i). Mag. Am. Hist., Xov., 1880. 

The decrease of the North American Indians, pp. 7. Kansas 



City Rev. (Kansas City, Mo.), Sept., 1880. 
DuRAKD — Sur les races de FAveyrdn. Bull. Soc. iTanthrop. de Paris^ 

1879, ii, p. 421. 

FiCKEE, A. — Die Eeste keltischer Bevolkerung in Mitteleuropa. Statist. 

Monatsschr., 1880, Heft 3 ; Petermann^s Mitth., vii, 1880. 
FiGUiER, Louis — Les races humaines. 4™** M. Paris, Hachette et Cie., 

1880. 1 vol. 616 pp., figs, and pis. 8°. 

FiNSCH, O. — TJeber die Bewohner von Ponape (ostl. Carolinen; nacb 
eigeuen Beobachtungen und Erkundigungen. Ztschr.f. Ethnol., Ber- 
lin, 1880, pp. 301-332, 1 pi. 

Flower, W. H. — The American races. Brit. M. J., London, 1880, i, 
549; 577; 616. 

Foley — Considerations sur les races humaines. Bull. Soc. Wanthrop, 
de Paris, 1880, pp. 365-377. 

Fritsche, G. — Die afrikanischen Buschmanner als TJrrasse. Ztschr.f. 
Ethnol., Berlin, 1880, pp. 289-300. 

Gaffarel, p. — Les peuples africains, le Xiger et les peuplades de la 
Senegambie. Rev. politique, 21 Feb., 1880. • 

GiOLiOLi, E. H. — Xuove notizie sui i^opoli negroidi dell' Asia e special- 
mente sui negriti. Arch, per Vantrop., Firenze, 1879, ix. 

GiRARD, J. — Migrations africaines. Paris. Bull. Soc. geogr., Oct. 

GoEHLERT, V. — Die religiosen, politischen und socialen Verhaltnisse 
in Noricum zur Zeit der Eomerherrschaft. Erortert auf Grund der 
daselbst aufgefundenen Steininschriften. Ztsclir. f. Ethnol, Berlin, 
1880, pp. 120-131. 

Guss, A. L. — Who were the Massawomekes ? Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash- 
ington, i, p. 71. 

Harley, C. de — Les Aryas et leur premiere patrie. Rev. linguistique, 
July. 

Harmand, J. — Le Laos et les populations sauvages de I'lndo-Chine. 
Tour du monde, 1880, xxxix, No. 1006-1009, pp. 241-320. 

Havard, Victor — French and Indian half-breeds. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 
Washington, i, p. 12. [In extenso in Smithson. Eep., 1879.J 

HOLTJB, Emil— On the Central South African tribes from the South 
Coast to the Zambesi. J. Anthrop. Inst., x, No. 1, pp. 2-20. 

[The author has also published through Messrs. Sampson, Low & 
Mars ton a superb work in two volumes entitled " Seven years in 
South Africa."] 

Howorth, H. H.— The ethnology of Germany. Part iv. The Saxons of 
Nether Saxony, section ii. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix, No. 4, pp. 405-436. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 421 

HOWORTH, H. H. — The ethnology of Germany. Part v. The Jutes and 

Torraorians. J. Antlirop. Inst., x, No. 2, pp. 212-223. 
History of the Mongols from the ninth to the nineteenth cen- 
tury. Part ii. The so-called Tartars of Russia and Central Asia. 

Divisions i and ii. Longmans & Co. (Reviewed in The Atlienwum, 

Oct. 2, 1880.) 
ICAZBALCETA, JoAQUiN GARCIA ^Mexico) — Historia de ios Mexicanos 

por sus piiituras. Anales d. Jluseo nacional de Mexico, ii, pp. 85- 

100. 
Jackson, Shelton — Alaska and the missions in the Xorth Pacific 

coast. 8°. Kew York, Dodd, 1880. 
JouGOViTcn, J. — Classification des races humaiues. [In Russian.] St. 

Petersburg, 1880. 8°. 
Kanitz, p. — Die Ethnographic der Pariser " Exposition des sciences 

anthropologiques." Mitth. d. Anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 1880, ix. 

Ausserord. Beil. 1-20. 
Keane, a. H. — Albania and the Albanians, with a classification. IN'a- 

ture, July 15, 1880. 
KiNCAiD, W. — On the Bheel tiil)es of Yindhyan Range. J. Anthrop. 

Inst, ix, No. 4, pp. 397-400. 
Kneelawd, Dr. S. — Traces of the Mediterranean nations. Proc. Bost. 

Soc. Nat. Hist., xx, ii. 
KoHN, A. — W. Mainow's ethnographische Forschungen im innern Russ- 

land. Mittli. d. Anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, 1880, pp. 273-279. 
Lagneau, Gustave — De quelques dates reculees interessant I'ethnolo- 

gie de I'Europe centrale. Bev. d'antlirop., 1880, pp. 411-468. 
Sur les Galates, les Germains, les Francks, et les Burgundians. 

Bull. kSoc. dhinthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 414-423. 
Lamothe, H. de — Cinq mois chez les Fran9ais d'Amerique : Voyage 

an Canada, et la Riviere Rouge du Nord. 2°^® ed. Paris, Hachette 

et Cie., 1880. iv-379 pp. 18°. 
Leggo, Wm. (Toronto) — Canada and her Indian tribes, pp. 139-149 of 

Canadian Month. S Nat. Rev., vol. v., No. 2, August, 1880. 
Lemly, H. R. — Among the Arrapahoes. Harper's Mag., March. 
Le Moy'ne, a. — Voyages et sejour dans I'Amerique du Sud, la Nou- 

velle-Grenada, Santiago de Cuba, la Jamai'que et I'Isthme de Pa- 
nama. Paris, Quantin, 1880. 2 vols. 18°. 
Lesson, A. — Les Polynesiens, leur origine, leurs migrations, leur Ian gage j 

ouvrage redige, d'apres le manuscrit de I'auteur, par Ludovic Marti- 
net. Paris, Leroux, 1880. vol. 1, vii, 527 pp. 8°. 
LiETARD, G. — Semites. Diet, encycl. d. sc. nied., Paris, 1880, pp. 575-579. 
Mantegazza, p., & S. SoMMiER — Studii autropologici sui Lapponi. 

Firenze, 1880. 4°. 
Menon, p. S. — On the coast of Madagascar. Madras J. Lit., i. 
Meyer, A. B. — Sur Tethnologie de la Nouvelle-Guin^e. Bull. Soc. Wan- 

throp. de Paris, 1880, pp. 346-362. 



422 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MoNDi^RE, Dr. A. p. — Sur la monographie de la femme de la Cochin- 
chine Bull. Soc. dkmtlirop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 250-261. 

Les negres chez eux ou 6tudes ethuographiqnes surles popula- 
tions de la Cote d'Or. Rev. Wanthrop., 1880, pp. 621-650. 

MtJLLER, Feiedrich — On the migration of races. Fop. Sc. Month., 
Jan., 1880. 

Kaeragansett tribe of Indians — Keport of the committee of investi- 
gation ; a historical sketch, and evidence taken, made to the House 
of Eepreseutatives at its January session, A. D. 1880. Providence, 
E. L. Freeman & Co., 1880. Pamph., 92 pp. 8°. 

Nixon, J. — Among the Boers. London, Eemington, 1880. 8°. 

Nubian race, Types of the. HI. Pop. Sc. Month., August. 

Ober, Frederick A. — Camps in the Caribbees. Boston, Lee & Shep- 
ard. 1 vol. 12°. 

OuTREY, Edmond — La Perse. Paris, Ghio, 1880. 47 pp. 4^. 

Pfoxjndes, C. — The Japanese people : their origin, and the race as it 
now exists. J. Anthrop. Inst, x, No. 2, pp. 225-230. 

PiTON, C. — La Chine, sa religion, ses moeurs, ses missions. Paris, 
1880. 157 pp. SO. 

Prjevalski, N. — Mongolie et pays des Tangoutes. Ouvrage traduit 
du russe, avec autorisation de I'auteur, par G. du Laurens. Precede 
d'une preface de E. Delmar- Morgan, et d'une introduction du colo- 
nel Yule, traduites de I'anglais, avec I'aiitorisation des auteurs, par 
J. Belin de Launay. Paris, Hachette, 1880. lvi-344 pp., fig. and 
charts. 8°. 

Putnam, F. W. — The Indians of California. From the Bulletin of the 
Essex Institute, vol. 12, March 1, 1880. 

Eapfray, Achille — Afrique orientate, Abyssinie. Paris, Plon et Cie., 
1880. 2'^« ed. xiii-296 pp. 18°. 

Eeclus, E. — Studies of j)rimitive peoples. Inteniat. Rev., New York, 
1880, n. s., viii, 457-471. 

Eeed, Sir Edward J. — Japan : its history, traditions and religions, 
with the narrative of a visit in 1879. London, John Murray, 1880. 
2 vols. With maps and illustrations. (Eeviewed in Nature, Oct. 
28, 1880.) 

Eevoil, Georges — Voyages an Cap des Aromates (Afrique orientale). 
Paris, Dentu, 1880. x-299 i)p., dessins et cartes. 18°. 

Eey, Philippe-Marius— Etude anthropologique sur les Botocudos. 
( These de doctorat en medeciue.) Paris, 1880. So pp. 4°. 

Eeynaud, Alfred — Contribution a I'histoire naturelle de I'homme: les 
Tsiams et les sauvages bruns de I'Indo-Chine, ethnograi)hie et an- 
thropologic. Paris, A. Parent, 1880. 58 pp. 8°. 

EiALLE, GiRARD DE — Les peuples de F Afrique et de I'Amerique. 
Bibliotheque utile, vol. 4. Paris, BaUiere & Cie., 1880. pp. 184. 12o. 

EoEPSTORFF, F.-A. DE — Les iles Andaman. Extract from the author's 
report to the Society generale des prisons upon the penal colonies of 
the Andaman islands. Bev. scient., Jan. 3, 1880. 



ANTHEOPOLOGY. 423 

EOYCE, C. C— Au inquiry into tlie biytory ;md identity of the Sha\Ynee 
Indians. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. AVashington, i, p. 94. 

BUELLE, CHARLES-fiMiLE— Bibliograpliie geuerale des Gaiiles ; reper- 
toire systematique et alpbabetique des ouvrages, memoires et notices 
coucernaut I'histoire, la topograpliie, la religion, les antiquites, et le 
langage de la Gaule jusqu'a la tin du v"'® siecle. l*remiere periode. 
Publications faites depuis I'origine de I'imprimerie jusqu'en 1870 in- 
clusivement. l'«livr. Avertissement. Bibliograpliie. Paris, librai- 
rie de la Societe bibliograpliique, Duraoulin, Firiuin Didot et Cie., 
1880. xviii-415 pp. 8°. 

EUSSIA, The ethnograpby of. Orient, Church Mag., Sept. 

ScHADENBERG, A.— Uebcr die Negritos der Pliilippinen. Ztschr. f. 
Uthnol, 1880, pp. 133-174. 

Schneider, L.— Bohmens Bin woliner zur Zeit des Tacitus. Ztschr. f. 
MhiioL, 1880, pp. 10L*-105. 

Seidlitz, Js"". von— Etlinograpbie des Kaukasus. Chart and statisti- 
cal tables. Petermami's Mitth., Bd. 26, 1880, ix, p. 340. 

Shea, John Gilmary— A description of Louisiana. By Father Louis 
Hennepin. Translated from the original edition of 1083, with notes 
showing the variations in the "New Discovery" of 1697, and com- 
paring it with contemporary documents. For sale by Eobert 
Clarke & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio. [Only 250 copies have been 
printed.] 

SiBREE, JajVIEs — The great African island : chapters on Madagascar. 
With maps and illustrations. London, Triibuer & Co. (Eeviewed 
in The Academy, Aug. 14.) 

SiMSON, Alfred— Notes on the Jivaros and Canelos Indians. J. An- 
throp. Inst., ix, No. 4, pp. 385-394. 

Smirnow — Sur la couleiu' des cheveux et des yeux de divers peuples du 
Caucase. Bicll. Soc. cVanthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 431-436. 

Stein, F. von— Die Turkmeuen. Petermann's Mitth., Bd. 26, 1880, 
ix, pp. 325-340. 

SuAREz, F. G. — Estudio historico sobre los Caiiaris, antiguos habi- 
tantes de la provincia del Azuay en la republica del Ecuador. 
Quito, 1878. 57 pp., 5 tables.' 4P. 

Tappeiner— Beitrage zur Anthropologic Tirols. Ztschr. f. Etlmol, 
Berlin, 1880, pp. 269-288. 

TUJIE, D. Hack— The Cagots. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix. No. 4, pp. 376-385. 

TJjFAEVY DE Mezo Kovesd, Ch.-E. DE— Expedition scientilique fran- 
§aise en Eussie, en Siberie. Tome iii. Les Bachkirs. Paris, 1880. 
gr. 8o. 

Les Bachkirs, les Vepses et les antiquites flnuo-ougriennes et 

altaiques, precedes des resultats anthropologiques d'un voyage en 
Asie centrale. Paris, 1880. 8^. 

Vambery, Arminius— The Turcomans between the Caspian and the 
Merv. ■/. Anthrop. Inst., ix. No. 3, pp. 337-345. 



424 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

YiRCHOW, E. — Eskimos von Labrador. Verhandl. d. Berl. Gesellsch.f, 

Anthrop., 1880, pp. 253-250. 
VoGT, C. — Sur les Lapons. BuU. Soc. Wanthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 

300-394. 
Wake, C. Staniland — Notes on the Polynesian race. J. Anthrop. 

Inst, X, No. 1, pp. 109-123. 
Weisberger — Sur des observations anthropologiqnes faites dans un 

voyage en Sahara. Bull. 8oc. d^anthrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 486-490. 
Weisberger, Dr. H. — Excursion anthropologique au Sahara. Rev. 

Wanthrop., 1880, i^p. 651-608. 
Worsaae, J. J. A. — La civilisation danoise a I'^jioque des vikings. 

Traduit du danois par I'abbe Morillot. Copenhague, 1880. pp. 

42, gravures. 8°. 
Wylie, a. — Notes on the western regions. Translated from the 

"Tseen Han Shoo," book 96, part 1. J. Anthrop, Inst., x, No. 1, 

pp. 20-72. 
Yule, Col. — Notes on analogies of manners between the Indo-Chinese 

races and the races of the Indian Archipelago. J. Anthrop. Inst.j 

ix, No. 3, pp. 290-304. 
Zaborowski — Sur le type des Franco-Germains dans les sepultures 

prehistoriques de la Baltique et sur le Dniester. Bull. Soe. d'an- 

throp. de Paris, 1880, pp. 436-440. 

VI. — Glossology. 

Adam, L., & 0. LeclErc — Arte de la lengua de los Indios Baures de 
la provincia de los Moxos. Conforme al manuscrito original del P. 
Antonio Majio. Paris, Maisonneuve; London, Nutt. 

Aston, W. G. — A comparative study of the Javanese and Corean lan- 
guages. J. Roy. Asiatic Soc., Aug. 

Grammaire samoane. Rev. linguistique, Oct. 

Avery, J. — Influence of the aboriginal tribes upon the Aryan speech 

of India. Oriental & Biblical Journal, iii. 
Ball, V. — On Nicobarese ideographs. J. Anthrop. Inst., x, No. 1, px). 

103-107. 
Bayce, Archibald H. — Introduction to the science of language. 

Scribner & Welford. 
Brandreth, E. L. — The Gaurian compared with the Roman language. 

J. Roy. Asiatic Soc. Gr. Brit., d;c., ii, July. 
Bunker, Rev. A. — On a Karen inscrij)tion plate. J. Am. Oriental Soc, 

X, ii. 
Charenci', H. de — Archeologie americaiue. D^chiftrement des ecri- 

tures calculiformes ou Mayas, le bas-relief de la croix de Palenque 

et le manuscrit Troano. Alen9on, de Broise, 1880. 52 pp., fig. 

8°. 

Recherches sur les dialectes tasm aniens. Aleu^on, E. de 

Broise, 1880. 8°. 56 pp. (Published in Actes de la Societe philolo- 
gique, tome xi, I*'' fascic, 1880.) 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 425 

Clakk, W. P, — Sign lauguage of the jSTortli American Indians. United 

Service Mag., July. 
CusHiNG, J. N. — Grammatical sketch of the Kakhyeu language. J. 

Bo I/. Asiatic Soe. Gr. Brit., dDc, July. 
CuST, 11. !N^. — Liugnistic and Oriental essays written from the year 18-46 

to 1878. London. 
Fay, E. a. — The testimony of the romance languages concerning the 

forms of the imperfect and i)luperfect subjunctive in the Eoman 

folk-speech. Tr. Antlirop. Soc. Washingtonj 1, p. 72. 
Gatschet, Albert Samuel — The numeral adjective in the Klamath 

language of Southern Oregon. Am. Antiquarian, ii, No. 3, pp. 

210-217. 
The Timucua language. (Read before the American Philosophi- 
cal Society, Feb. 20, 1880, and jjrinted in their proceedings, pp. 

405-502.) 
[Mr. Gatschet conducts the dispartment of Indian linguistics in the 
Am. Antiquarian. The above is his third article on this subject. 
Article 1 was read before the Am. Phil. Soc, April 6, 1877 ; 
article 2, April 5, 1878 (1877, pp. 1-17; 1878, pp. 490-501).] 

Indian color names. Tr. Antliro]). Soc. Washington, i, p. 10. 

Geoffroy, J. — La connaissance et la denomination des couleurs. Bull. 

Soc. (Vanthrop. de Paris, 1879, p. 11. 
Gilbert, G. K. — Some Indian i)ictographs. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash- 
ington, i, p. 4. 
GULICK, L. n. — A vocabulary of the Pouape dialect. J. Am. Oriental 

Soc, X, p. 11. 
HoERXLE, A. F. Rudolf— -A comparative grammar of the Gaudian 

languages, with special reference to the eastern Hindi. Triibner. 

(Reviewed in The Academy, June 19th.) 
Houghton, W. — Hieroglyphic or picture origin of the characters of the 

Assyrian syllabary. Tr. Soc. Biblical Archceologg, vi, p. 2. 
HoAT^LACQUE, ABLE, Emd.e Picot, & JuLiEN VINSON— Melanges 

de linguistique et d'anthropologie. Paris, 1880. 
Keane, a. U. — On the relations of the Indo-Chinese and inter-oceanic 

races and languages. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix, No. 3, pp. 254-290. 
KiNGSMiLL, T. W. — The ancient language and cult of Chows. J. 2f. 

China Branch Roy. Asiatic Soc, xii. 
Lanman, C. R. — Recent publications in the field of Indian antiquities. 

Am. J. Philology, Oct. 
Lepsius, R. — Kubische Grammatik mit emer Einleitung iiber die Yolker 

und Sprachen Africas. Berlin, Besser, 1880. 8°. 
McCuRDY, J. F. — Relations of the Aryan and Semitic languages. Bi- 

hliotheca Sacra, July, Oct. 
MacInty'RE, J. — Notes on the Corean lauguage. China Rev., Jan., Feb. 
3IALLERY", Garrick — (Smithsonian Institution — Bureau of Ethnology). 

The sign language of the North American Indians. Tr. Anthrop. 

Soc Washington, i, ]). 19. 



426 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Mallery, Garrick. — Introduction to the study of sign language 
among the Korth American Indians as ilhistrating the gesture speech 
of mankind. By Garrick Mallery, Brevet Lieut. Col. U. S. Army. 
Washington, Government Printing Office, 1880. iv, 72 pp. 4°. 

A collection of gesture signs and signals of the North Amer- 
ican Indians, with some comparisoiis. By Garrick Mallery, Brevet 
Lieut. Col., and formerly Acting Chief Signal Officer, U. S. Army. 
Distributed only to collaborators. Washington, Government Print- 
ing Office, 1880. Title, 329 pp. lo. 

Mason, Otis T. — A comparison of a written language with one that is 
spoken only. Tr. Antlirop. Soc. WasMngton^ i, p. 21. 

Masqtjeray, E. — Comparaison d'un vocabulaire du dialecte des Zenaya 
avec les vocabulaires correspondants des dialectes des Chacoia et 
des Beni-Uzab. Arch. d. missions scienf,, Dec. 

Matthew, John— Oii the Kabi dialect of Queensland. J. Anthrop. Inst., 
ix. No. 3, pp. 312-31G. 

Meyer, H. — Origin of the Etruscan language. Deutsche Rundschau, 
Aug. 

Miller, O. D. — Accadian or Sumerian"? Oriental <£• BihlicalJournal, 
iii. 

Molina, Padre Fr. Alonzo de — Vocabulario de la lengua mexicana; 
publicado de nuev^o por Julio Platzmann. Edicion facsimilaria. 
Leipzig, B. G. Teubner, 1880. (Paged recto only.) Parte I: Cas- 
tellano-Mexicano (en Mexico, 1571), p. 121. Parte II: Mexicano- 
Castellano (en Mexico, 1571), p. 162. 

Newman, F. W. — Notes on the Libyan languages. J. Roy. Asiatic Soc. 
Gr. Brit, &c., July. 

Ojibbeway'" Book of Common Prayer. Published in the syllabic charac- 
ters invented by the missionaries, by the Society for Promoting 
Christian Knowledge. 

Oppert, Gustav — On the classification of languages : a contribution 
to comparative philology. London and Madras, Trlibner. (Re- 
viewed in The Academy, July 11.) 

Orozco y Berra, Manuel (Mexico) — Codice Mendocino: Ensayo de 
descifracion gerogliflca (continuacion). An. d. Museo nacional de 
Mexico, ii, pp. 47-82, with plates and bibliography, 127-130 ; 205- 
222. 

Parisot, J. — Note sur la langue des Taensas. Rev. Unguistique, April. 

Parker, E. H. — Syllabary of the Hakka language or dialect. China 
Rev., Jan., Feb. 

Postgate, J. P. — A philological examination of the myth of the sirens. 
Am. J. Philology, xvii. 

Powell, J. W. — On the evolution of language, as exhibited in the spec- 
ialization of the grammatic processes, the differentiation of the parts 
of sj)eecb, and the integration of the sentence, from a study of In- 
dian languages. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 35. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 427 

Powell, J. W. — Smithsoniau Institution — Bureau of Ethnology. J. W. 
Powell, Director. Introduction to the study of Indian languages, 
with words, phrases, and sentences to be collected. 2d ed. With 
charts. Washington, Government Printing Office, 1880. xi, 228 pp. 
(and 8 niled leaves). 4^, I charts. 

Ehea, Eev. S. A. — Brief grannnar and vocabulary of tlie Kurdish lan- 
guage. J. Am. Orient. ISuc, x, p. 11. 

EiDDEL, A. — A grammar of the Chinyanja language as spoken at Lake 
Nyassa, with Ohiu.-English and Eng.-Chinyanja vocabulary. Edin- 
burgh, iMaclaren, 1880. Kjo. 150 pp. 

EoCK, Miles — Indian pictographs in Kew Mexico. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 
Washington, i, p. 10. 

EoGEK.s, E. T. — Dialects of Arabic. J. Boij. Asiatic Soc, Aug. 

Sayce, a. H. — Introduction to the science of language. 2 vols. Lon- 
don, Kegan, Paid & Co., 1880. {Nature, May 20, 1880. Eeviewed 
by A. H. Keaue.) 

Smith, Mrs. E. A. — The language of the Iroquois. Science, Sept. 11. 

Valentuni, Piiilipp J. J. — The Landa alphabet ; a Spanish fabrica- 
tion. From the Proc. Am. Antiquarian Soc, April 28, 1880. 

Vinson, J. — Esquisse grammaticale de la langue de God. Bev. lin- 
gnistique; Oct. 

Ward, Lester F. — Savage and civilized orthoepy. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. 
Washington, i, j). 106. 

Whitney, W. D. — A Sanskrit grammar, including both the classical 
language and the older dialects of Veda and Brahmana. Leipzig, 
Breitkopf & Hiirtel; London, Triibner & Co. {The Athenwum, July 

3, 1880; The Academy, June 2G, July 3.) 

VII. — Comparative technology'. 

Beck, L. — Das Meteoreisen in technischer und culturgeschichtlicher 

Beziehung. Arch./. Anthrop., 1880, xii, pp. 293-314. 
Butler, Prof. J. D. — Aboriginal use of copper in war and peace. Am. 

Antiquarian, iii, No. 1. 
Chantre, E. — Notes anthropologiques ; de I'origine orientale de la 

metalkirgie. Lyon, 1880. 4°. 
CoNDER, JosiAH — The history of Japanese costume. Tr. Asiatic Soc 

Japan, viii, iii, pp. 309-415, G col. pi. 
Dahlberg, R. N. & Charles L. — Composition of ancient pottery, &c. 

Smithson. Eep., 1879, p. 349. 
Farrer, J. A. — Savage and civilized warfare. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix, No. 

4, pp. 358-369. 

GooDE, G. Brown — The use of agricultural fertilizers by the American 
Indians and the early English colonists. Tr. Anthrop. Soc Washing- 
ton, i, ]>. 21, {Tn extenso in Am. Naturalist, July, 1880.) 

Gore, J. Howard — Tuckahoe, or Indian bread. Tr. Anthrop. Soc 
Washington, i, p. 101. 



428 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Hoy, p. R. (Eacine, Wis.) — How were copper implements fabricated by 
the aborigines of this country °J Wis. Hist- Collections, viii. 

Jade and the primitive art- workmen. Builder, Jan. 31. 

Knight, Edward H. — A study of the savage weapons at the Cen- 
tennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, 1876. Smithson. Eep., 1879, pp. 
213-297. (Profusely illustrated.) 

Moegan, Lewis H. — A study of the houses of the American aborigi- 
nes; with suggestions for the exploration of the ruins in New 
Mexico, Arizona, the valley of the San Juan, and in Yucatan and 
Central America. Under the auspices of the Archaeological Insti- 
tute of America. Eeport 1879-'80. 

Oppert, G. — On the ancient commerce of India. Madras J. Lit., i. 

Putnam, F. W. — Pueblo pottery. From the Am. Art Ecv., Feb., 1881. 

ScnuMACHER, Paul — The method of making pottery and baskets by 
the Indians of Southern California. Eep. Peabody Mus., ii, pp. 
521-525. 

SoLLAS, W. J. — On some Eskimo bone implements from the east coast 
of Greeulaud. J. Anthrop. Imt., ix, No. 3, pp. 329-330. 

Tylor, E. B. — On the origin of the plow and wheelcarriage. J. An- 
throp. Inst., X, No. 1, pp. 74-83. 

VoGT, C. — L'ecriture consideree au point de vue physiologique. (Ee- 
vue des cours scientifiques 5 Paris, 26 juin 1880.) 

WiTTMACK, L. — Ueber antiken Mais aus Nord- und Siid-Amerika. 
Ztsehr.f. EthnoL, 1880, pp. 85-97. 

VIII. — Sociology. 

Bandelier, Ad. F.— On the social organization and mode of govern- 
ment of the ancient Mexicans. Eep. Peabody Mus., ii, pp. 557-699. 
Berbnger, Dr. Feraud — Note sur la secte des Simos au sud du 

Senegal. Rev. Wanthrop., 1880, pp. 424-440. 
Bertillon, J. — La statistique humaine de France. Paris, 1880. 1(P. 

(See Rev. d'anthrop., 1880, p. 691, for a review of the demography 

of Algiers.) 
De I'influence du mariage sur la tendance au suicide. Bull. 

Soe. dhintkrop. de Paris, 1880, pp. 277-295. 
Buddhist (A) family ; or, village religious life in India. Theosophist, 

June. 
Burmese village, Life in a. {Spectator.) Living Age, Oct. 16. 
Chastity — Its development and maintenance. ^Westminster Rev. 

(Am. ed.), 1880, pp. 466-468. 
Dunbar, J. B. — The decrease of the North American Indians. Kansas 

City Rev., Sept. 
Enfant (L') chez les sauvages et chez les civilises. Rev. hritanniquBj 

Nov. 
Eunuques (Les) en Chine. Rev. crit. dliistoire, March. 
FisoN, Eev. LoRiMER — Australian marriage laws. J. Anthrop. Inst., 

ix, No. 4, pp. 354-358. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 429 

Fii^ON, Eev. LoRiMER. — Notes on Fijian burial custonjs. J. Anthrop. 
Inst., X, No. 2, 1)1). 137-148. 

Views of primitive marriage. Po/j. 8c. Month., June. 

Flower, Prof. W. H. — Fashion in deformity. 111. J'op. Sc. Month., 

Oct. 
Gore, J. Howard — The development of deliberative government among 
the North American Indians. Tr. Anthrop. iSoe. Washington, \, p. 58. 

The old Koman senate; a study of deliberative assemblies. Tr, 

Anthrop. 8oc. Washitujlou, i, p. 0. 

Grellety — Le nuiriage; ses avantages; sa moralite. Hygiene pour 

tous, Paris, 1880, v, No. xv, p. 58. 
Hough, M, B. W. — Civilization. Tr. Anthrop. ISoc. Washingtori, i, p. 100. 
Le Bon, G. — L'homme et les societ^s, leur origine et lenr histoire. 

Paris, Rothschild. 
Letourneau, Charles — La sociologie d'apres I'ethnographie. Paris, 

Reinwald, 1880. svi-581 pp. 18°. 
Lyle, I), A. (Lieutenant of Ordnance, Springfield, Mass.) — The Indian 

question. Springfield Sunday Bepuhlican, March 7, 1880. 
Miklucho-Maclay, von — Geschlechtlicher Uuigang mit Madcheu 

vor der Geschlechtsreife derselbeu. Ztschr.f. Ethnol., Berlin, 1880, 

p. 88. 

Langbeinigkeit der australienischen Frauen. Ibid., p. 89. 

Stellung des Paares beim Coitus und das Ausschleudern des 

Spermas vom Weibe nach demselben. Ibid., p. 87. 

Leber die Mika-Operatiou in Central-Australieu. Ibid., 85-87. 



Mitchell, Arthur — The past in the present: What is civilization? 
Edinburgh, Douglas, (lieviewed in The Athenwum, Aug. 28, 1880.) 

Montague, C. — About kissing. Potfer^s Am. Month., Feb. 

NoRRis, P. W. — Modes of Indian burial. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washing- 
ton, i, p. 4. 

Pickering, W. A. — Chinese secret societies. J. Straits Branch Royal 
Asiatic Soc, iii. 

Powell, John Wesley^ — Wyandotte government. A short study. of 
tribal society, delivered at the Boston meeting of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, August 1, 1880, by 
Maj. J. W. Powell, Director Bureau of Ethnology, Washington. [In 
Science, vol. 1, No. 17, New York, Oct. 23, 1880. Eeprinted in 
• several New York and Boston newspapers and in Gong. Record of 
Feb. 1, 1881.] Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 70. 

Rice, L. — The Ganga kings. Madras J. Lit., i. 

ROYCE, C. C. — The Indian title. The method and chronology of its 
extinguishment by the United States. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washing- 
ton, i, p. 04. 

Spencer, Herbert — Ceremonial institutions; being part iv of "The 
Principles of Sociology" (the first portion of vol. ii). New York, 
D. Appleton & Co., 1880. 1 vol. 237 pp. 12o. 



430 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Spencer, Herbert. — The development of political institutions. I.— 
Preliminary. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov., Dec. 

Descrij)tive sociology ; or groups of sociologian facts, classi- 
fied and arranged by Herbert Spencer. Compiled and abstracted 
by David Duncan, M. A., Professor of Logic, «&c., in the Presidency 
College ', Eichard Scheppig, Ph. D. ; and James Collier. Hebrews 
and Phoenicians. Compiled and abstracted by Eichard Scheppig, 
Ph. D. New York, D. Appleton & Co. No. 7 of the series. 

Wheeler, J. T. — Peasant life in Bengal. {MacmiUaii's) Eclectic Mag., 
Oct. 

Yarrow, Henry Cr^cy — (Smithsonian Institution — Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogy. J. W. Powell, Director.) Introduction to the study of mor- 
tuary customs among the North American Indians. By Dr. H. C. 
Yarrow, Act. Asst. Surg. U. S. A. Washington, Government 
Printing Office, 1880. ix, 114 pp. 4o. 

Burial customs of the North American Indians. Tr. Antlirop. 

Boc. Washington, i, p. 58. [Published in extenso in the author's vol- 
uuie on the mortuary customs of the North American Indians.] 

IX. — Daimonology. 

Anderson, Easmus B. — Teutonic mythology. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 
No.4. [Professor Anderson conducts the department of Pre-Colum- 
bian History in the American Antiquarian.] 

Baleour, F. H. — The flower-fairies. China Rev., March, April. 

Ball, V. — Wolf-reared children. (Extracted from " Jungle Life in In- 
dia", p. 454 et seq.) J. Anthrop. Inst, ix. No. 4, pp. 465-474. 

Barth, H. — Les religions de I'Inde. Paris, Fischbacher, 1880. 180 pp. 
8°. 

Bastian, Adolf — Die heilige Sage der Polynesier. Kosmogonie und 
Theogonie. Leipzig, F. A. Brockhaus, 1881. 8°. (Preface dated 
Berlin, Nov., 1880.) xii-302 pp. (Eeviewed in the Nation, April, 
1881, No. 825.) 

BosCAWEN, W. — Notes on Assyrian religion and mythology. Tr. Soe. 
Biblical Archceology, vi, p. 2. 

Budge, A. — Assyrian incantations to fire and water. Tr. Soc. Biblical 
Archceology, vi, p. 2. 

Charenct, M. de — Ages cosmiques d'apr^s la mythologie mexicaine. 
Ann. de philosophic chretienne, Nov., i, 15 pp. 

Chevrier, Edmond — De la religion des peuples qui out habits la Gaule, 
suivi des monuments m^galithiques en Gaule. Bourg, Authier et 
Barbier, 1880. 80 pp. 8°. 

Cox, G. W. — The migration of popular stories. {Fraser^s Mag.) Eclectic, 
Sept. 

Homeric mythology and religion. A rejily to Mr. Gladstone. 

Erazer's Mag., Dec. 

Forms of salutations. Eclectic Mag., Jan. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 431 

Dorset, Kev. J. Owen — The rabbit and the grasshopper; au Otoe myth- 

Am. Antiquarian, iii, No. 1. 
DuBNiDON, p. — Le ciilte des morts et les cimetieres. Rev. oceidentale, 

Jan. 
Dyer, T. F. Thiselton — The moon and its folk-lore. Gentleman^ 

Mag., Ang-. 
Folk-songs, Venetian. Cornhill Mag., Oct. 
Gardner, W. H. — A flock of mythological crows. Pop. So. Monih.^ 

Nov. 
Gaster, Dr. — Jewish and comparative folk-lore. Monatssehr. f. 

Gesellsch. d. Judenthums, Jan. 
Gatschet, a. S. — Superstitions. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 

103. 
The four creations of mankind. A Tualati myth. Tr. Anthrop. 

Soc. Washington, i, p. 60. 
GoivfiiE, G. L. — Folk-lore and the Folk-lore Society. Antiquary, Jan. 
GuYAN, M. — De I'origiue des religions. Bev. philosophique, Dec. 
Hoffmann, W. — Russian superstitions. Fenn Month., Jan. 
JoLY", J. — The origin of Norse mythology. Academy, Jan. 24. 
Knighton, W. — Demoniacal i^ossessions in India. Nineteenth Century ^ 

Uct. 
Leclercq, B. — Histoire de la divination dans I'autiquito. Rtv. crit. 

d^histoire, Dec. 
Legge, James — The sa(!red books of China. The texts of Confucianism. 

Part i. Oxford, Clarendon press. (Reviewed in The Athenceum, 

Sept. 18, 1880.) 
LuQUiENS, J. — The Avesta and the storm myth. Neiv Englander, Sept. 
McClintock, Letitia — Beasts, birds, and insects in Irish folk-lore. 

Eclectic Mag., Jan., from Belgravia. 
Maget, G. — Culte de Sinto. Philos. positive rev., Sept.-Oct. 
Mallery'^, Garrick — Comparative mythology of the two Indies. Tr. 

Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 12. 
Mayers, W. F. — On the stone figures at Chinese tombs and offering of 

living sacrifices. J. N. China Branch Boy. Asiatic Soc, xii. 
MuLLER, F. Max — The sacred books of the East. Vol. i. The Upa- 

nishads. Oxford, Clarendon Press. (Reviewed in The Athenceum, 

Aug. 14, 1880. For a review of subsequent volumes, see Nature, 

July 1.) 
Nubian races. Pop. Sc. Month., Aug. 
PiETREMENT, C. A. — Lcs chevaux de I'Avesta et le myth de Tistrya. 

Bev. linguistique, July. 
Powell, John YVesley — My thologic philosophy. An address by John 

W. Powell, vice-president, before the American Association for the 

Advauceuient of Science, at Saratoga, N. Y., August, 1879. (Re- 

l^rinted froui vol. xxviii of the Proceedings of the American Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science.) Salem, printed at the 

Salem Press, 1880. 30 pp. So. 



432 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Eehetsek, E. — Oriental folk-lore. Calcutta Eev., April. 

Eenouf, p. le Page — The origin and growth of religion as illustrated 

by the religion of ancient Egypt. (The Hibbert Lectures for 1874.) 

iS'ew York, Oh. Scribner's Sons, 1880. 1 vol. 270 pp. 12°. 
Ehys Davids (T. W.) — Buddhist birth stories; or, Jataka tales. Vol. 

i. Trilbner. 
EiccARDi, Dr. Paolo — Atheism, fetichism, and anthropomorphism^ 

Studies in the science of religion. Arch. p. Vatitrop., Florence, x, No. 

1, 1880. 
RiGGS, Eev. Stephen E. — The theogony of the Sioux. Am. Antiquarian^ 

ii. No. 4. 
Smith, W. E. — Animal worship and animal tribes among the Arabs in 

the Old Testament. J. Philology, xvii. 
SoucHE, B. — Croyances, presages et traditions diverses. Niort, 1880. 

pp. 52. 8o. 
Waxhouse, M. — Eag bushes in the East. Indian Antiquary, June. 
Westropp, Hodder M. — Notes on fetichism. J. Anthrop. Inst., ix, No. 

3, pp. 304-312. 

X. — Instrumentalities of research. 

American Association. Science, i, pp. 42-290, occasionally. A list 
of the papers will be found in the Am. Naturalist for October. 

[The meeting at Boston was the largest ever held. The papers, 
a list of which is given below, were exceptionally valuable. The 
president's address will be found recorded under the name of Maj. 
J. W. Powell.] 

1. Ethnology of Africa. A. S. Bickmore. 

2. Myths and folk-lore of the Iroquois. Erminuie A. Smith. 

3. Prehistoric altars of Whitesides County, 111. W. 0. Holbrook. 

4. Theory of primitive democracy in the Alps. D. W. Eoss. 

5. Ancient mounds near Naples, 111. J. G. Henderson. 

6. The mounds of Illinois. Wm. McAdams. 

7. Prehistoric and early types of Japanese pottery. E. S. Morse. 

8. Scheme of the tenth census for obtaining statistics of untaxed 

Indians. Garrick Mallery. 

9. Stone implements from the river drift of New Jersey. 0. C. 

Abbott. 

10. Indications of pre-Indian occu})ancy of the Atlantic coast of 

North America subsequent to that of palaeolithic man. C. 
0. Abbott. 

11. Tlie probable existence in America of the prehistoric practice 

of trepanning in the cutting of rondelles or amulets from 
the skull. E. J. Farquharson. 

12. The Dacotah tribes. Gen. H. B. Carrington. 

13. Textile fabrics of the ancient inhabitants of the Mississippi 

Valley. J. G. Henderson. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 433 

American Association — Continued. 

14. Engraved tablet from a mound in Ohio. W. J. Knowlton. 

15. Japanese caves. E. S. Morse. 

16. Ancient agricultural imiilements of stone. Wm. McAdams. 

17. Alabaster quarries, flint mines, and other antiquities of Mam- 

moth, Wyandot, and Luray caverns. H. O. Hovey. 

18. The classification of kindred by the Korth American Indians. 

J. W. Powell. 
10. On the Iroquois languages. Erminnie A. Smith. 

20. On the rank of the Indian languages. J. W. Powell. 

21. Eemarks on the mound'builders. J. F. Everhart. 

22. Contemporaneous existence of mastodon and man in America. 

R. J. Farquharson. 

23. Conventionalism in ornamentation of ancient American pot- 

tery. F. W. Putnam. 

24. On the occurrence in New England of carvings by the Indians 

of the northwest coast of America. F. W. Putnam. 

25. Sign-language and pantomimic dances among ISTorth American 

Indians. J. G. Henderson. 

26. The topographical survey of the works at Aztalan, Wis. S. D. 

Peet. 

27. The military system of the emblematic mound-builders. S. 

D. Peet. 

28. Improved stereograph for delineating the outlines of crania. 

A. S. Bickmore. 

29. Feeling and function as factors in human development. Les- 

ter F. Ward. 

30. The uses of the " chungkee-stone." Alfred M. Mayer. 

31. Relation of the archeology of Vermont to that of the adjacent 

States. (leo. H. Perkins. 

32. Exhibition of some gambling games of the Iroquois. Ermin- 

nie A. Smith. 

33. Parturition in a kneeling posture as practiced by the women 

of the mound-building and stone-grave peoples. C. Foster 
Williams. 

34. The antiquity of man in Eastern America geologically con- 

sidered. Henry C. Lewis. 

35. A comparison between the shells of Kjokkenmoddings and 

present forms of the same species. E. S. Morse. 

36. Antiquities of Onondaga County, N. T. W. M. Beauchamp. 
Anthropologicai. Institute of Great Britain and Ireland— Published 

vol. ix, No. 3 & 4 ; x, No. 1 & 2. 
Anthropological Society of Washington—Science, i, pp. 202 ; 262 ; 
286. (A volume entitled "Abstracts of transactions of the Anthro- 
pological Society of Washington, D. C," with the annual address 
of the president, for the first year, ending Jan. 20, 1880, and for 
the second year, ending Dec. 31, 1880.) 
S. Mis. 31 28 



434 ANTHEOPOLOGY. 

Antiquary — A magazine deyoted to the study of the past. Edited by 
Edward Walford. J. W. Bouton, N. Y. 

Antropologicheskaja vistavka, 1879, go goda. (Anthropological 
Exposition at Moscow in 1879.) Moskva, 1879. 

Arch^ological Institute (»f America — First annual report of the ex- 
ecutive committee, with accompanying papers, 1879-'80. Presented 
at the annual meeting of the institute, Boston, May 15, 1880. Cam- 
bridge. Jolm Wilson & Son, 1880. 1 vol. 103 pp. 8°. [Communica- 
tions should be addressed to Mr. E. H. Greenleaf, Museum of Fine 
Arts, Boston, Mass. See Morgan.] 

AechyEOLOGY and Ethnology, American. Science, i, p. 7. 

Archiv fiir Anthropologic, Bruschwg., i-xii, 1860-79. 

Archivio per I'antropologia e la etuologia, i-ix, 1871-80. 

Austrian Society of Anthropology and Prehistory — [In the first 
number of Mittli. d. Anfhrop. Gesellsch, in Wie7i, published April 
27, 1880, Dr. M. Much gives a detailed account of the meeting of 
Austrian anthropologists which took i)lace July 28 and 29, 1879, 
at Laibach, in Austria. Among the subjects discussed were grave- 
mounds, iiottery, craniometry, hike-dwellings, and ethnography. 
The subsequent numbers of the Mittheilungen treat of craniometry, 
cephalometry, mythology, ethnography, archaeology.] 

Barber, E. A. — (Conducts the deijartment of anthropological news in 
the Am. Antiquarian.) 

BiTARD, A. — Les races humaines et les grandes explorations du globe. 
Eouen, Megard et Cie., 1880. 1 vol. 392 pp. 4^. 

BoEHMER, George H. — Index to papers on anthropology published by 
the Smithsonian, 1847-'78. Smithsou. Kep., 1879, pp. 470-483. 

British Association, 1879. The report of the Sheffield meeting, pub- 
lished in 1880, contains the presidential addresses in full, and ab- 
stracts of all anthropological papers read. 

Broca, Paul — (Biographical notices in many journals. See a list in 
Index Medicus, iii, p. 57.) 

Biography and complete bibliography. Rev. d'^antlirop., Oct., 

1880. 

BuJACK — Auszug aus dem Catalog der Sammlung der Alterthums- 
gesellschaft Preussens. Arcli.f. Anthrop., 1879, xii, pp. 75-89. 

Bulletins de la Societe d'anthropologie de Paris. Vol. i-vi, 1800-05. 
2d series, i-xii, 1800-'77 ; 3d series, i-iii, 1878-'80. 20 vols. 8°. 
Paris, 1800-'80. 

Callamand — Keview of German anthropology. Rev. Wanthrop., 1880, 
pp. 175-180. See, also, p. 087. 

Collineau — Eeview of French anthropology. Rev. d'anthroj)., 1880, 
pp. 124-131. 

CoNGRi}S international des sciences anthropologiques. In connection 
with the Exposition at Paris in 1878 was held the "Congres interna- 
tional des sciences anthropologiques." The superb collections of 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 435 

Congees international des sciences antbropologiijues, (continued.) 

specimens illustrating every department of anthropology added 
very much to the interest and value of the pai)ers read. These com- 
munications were collected and published in a vohime bearing the 
name of the Congres. Paris, 1880. Their titles will be found below 
(From the Am. NatumUst, April, 1881, pp. 331-332.) 
AjMEGHINO, F. — L'horame prehistorique dans le bassin de La Plata, 

pp. 341-350. 
BataillARD, p. — Historique et prehminaires de la question de 

I'importation du bronze dans le uord et I'occident de Fl^urope 

par les Tsiganes, pp. 153-160. 
Beddoe, J.— Sur quelques cranes d'un vieux cimetiere de Bristol, 

pp. 283-285. 
Benedikt, M. —Sur les cerveaux des criminels, pp. 141-148. 
BoKDiEE — Rapport sur Tethnologiede I'Asie orientale, de FAfrique, 

et de rOceauie, pp. 39-47. 
Capellini, G. — Incisions sur des os de cetaces tertiaires, pp. 

224-234. 
Caetailiiac, E. — Rapport sur la paleo-ethnologie ; periode Roben- 

hausienne ou de la i)ierre polie, pp. 51-50. 
Chil — INIemoire snr I'origine des Guanches ou habitants primitifs 

des lies Canaries, pp. 107-220. 
D'ACY, F. — iS^otes sur les patines des silex failles des alluvions de 

Saint-x\cheul, et sur I'ordre de kurs superpositions, pp. 234-237. 
Daleau, F. — Notice sur les stations piV'historiques de fctang <le 

Lacanau, arrondissement de Bordeaux (Gironde), pp. 351-354. 
DupoNT, E. — Sur les Nutons, pp. 124-120. 
GiEAED DE RiALLE — Rapport sur Fethnologie de TEurope, de 

I'Asie occidentale, et de FAmerique, pp. 35-39, 
HovELACQ'UE, A, — Les raccs inferieures, pp. 204-200. 
Jacquinot, H., & P. UsQT'iN — Le necropole de Pougues les- 

Eaux (Nievre) ; derniers tenaps de I'age du bronze, pp. 238-250. 
Latteux — Procede pour obtenirdes coupes rigoureusement trans- 

versales du cheveu. i)p. 98-105. 
Le Bon, G. — Recherches anatomiques et mathematiques sur les 

variations de volume du crane, pj). 72-75. 
Maueel, E. — ]firude anthropologique sur les immigrants indieiis 

a la Guyane fran^aise, ])p. 75-98. 
MoETiLLET, G. DE — Decouvertc de TArnerique aux temps pie- 

historiques, pp. 207-273. 
Pagliani, L. — Etudes anthropometriques, pp. 02-72. 
RicnAED — Sur des decouvertes de silex failles dans le Sahara 

africain, en Egvpte et en Palestine, au tombeau de Josue, etc., 

pp. 278-282. 
ROYEE, Mme. C. — Des rapports des proportions du crane avec celles 

du corps, et des caracteres correlatifs et evolutifs en taxonomie 

humaine, pp. 105-119. 
]\Iemoire sur Torigine des Aryas et leurs migrations, pp. 

304-333. 
Schmidt, V. — De I'age de bronze en Europe et notamment en 

Scandinavie, pp. 285-288. 
SouciiE — Une sepulture de I'epoque Robenhausienue, ou de la 

pierre polie, a Panq)roux (Deux-Sevres), pp. 330-3)40. 
Thomas, P. — Recherches sur les sepultures anciennes des environs 

d'Aiu-el-Bey [near Constantine, Algeria], pp. 358-385. 



436 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

CoNGRi:s iuternational des sciences antliropologiques, (continued.) 

TOPINARD, P. — De I'nnification des methodes craniometriques et en 
particnlier de cnbage des cranes et du plan alveolo-condylien, 
pp. 135-144. 

Eapport snr I'anthropologie anatomique, biologique, et 

pathologique, pp. 29-35. 
U.TFALVY, C. E. DE — Quelques observations soramaires sur les races 

en Asie centrale, pp. 126-135. 
Zabaeowski, S. — Des monuments pr^historiqnes de la basse Yis- 

tule, pp. 250-204. 
Zawisza, J. — Sur la caverne du mammoutli (en Pologne), pp. 

220-222. 
Zeballos, E. S. — Note sur un tumulus prehistorique de Buenos- 
Ayres, pp. 148-153. 

Congress of anthropology and prehistoric archfeology, International, 
at Lisbon, 20-29tli September, 1880. Rev. iVantlirop., 1880, p. 370. 

CoTTEALT — Les scicuces anthropologiques a I'Exposition universelle de 
1878. Auxerre, 1879. 

Dally^, Dr. — De la place de I'anthropologie dans les sciences. Rev. 
d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 414-423. 

Davis, Charles H. S. — Index of articles on archteologj', anthropology, 
and ethnology. Am. Antiquarian, ii, No. 3, p. 239. 

lilcoLE d'anthropologie — Course of study. Rev. cVanfhrop., 1880, pp. 
188-369. 

EiNLEiTUNG ziir Beschickung der Ausstellung anthropologischer und 
vorgeschichtlicher Freunde Deutschlands. Ztschr. f. Uthnol., Ber- 
lin, 1880, xii, pp. 69-78. 

Ethnology, American. Science i, p. 17. 

French Association, session of 1880. Rev. d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 370-568. 

HoFF, W. Bainbridge — A strange chart. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Wash- 
ington, i, p. 33. 

jT^TTiEX Medicus — A monthly classified record of the current medical 
literature of the world. Compiled under the supervision of Dr. 
John S. Billings, Surgeon, U. S. A., and Dr. Kobert Fletcher, M. 
E. C. S. Eng. Vol. II. New York, F. Leypoldt, 1880. 

[In the Index-Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon-Greneral's 
Office, United States Army, the first volume of which has appeared 
(A — Berlinski) in sm. 4^, 888 pp., will be found, under the word 
Anthropology, a most valuable collection of the titles of journals 
and i)apers.] 

IssAURAT — Review of Italian anthropology. Rev. cVanthrop., 1880, pp. 
135-137. See, also, 309. 

Jones, C. C, jr. — Hernando de Soto. [The adventures encountered 
and the route pursued by the adelantado during his march through 
Georgia.] Savannah, Ga., 1880. 8°. 

Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ire- 
land. Vols. i-ix. Loudon, 1871-80. 

Kant, E. — Anthropology. J. Speculative Philos., July. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



437 



KUHPF — Review of Kussiau autliropology. liev. (Vanthrop., 1880, pp. 

158-lG-t; other reviews id., pp. 347-349. 
Laboratoiiy of anthropology of the Iilcole des hautes etudes. Iiev. 

d'anthrop., 1880, p. 508. 
Lag]>}EAU, Gr. — Frauee: Aiithropologie. Diet, encycl. d. so. mcd., Paris, 

1879, 4'"*' s. iv, p. 558 ; v, i, p. 45. 

Lang, John C. — Aucient maps of Xorth America. Tr. Antlirop. 8oc. 

Washington, i, p. 25. 
Lebon, Gustav — Keview of Eussiau anthropology. Rev. dhuithrop., 

1880, pp. 1G5-1G9. 

Lefevre, a. — Reviews of anthropological works. Rev. d'' a nth r op., 1880, 
p. 324. 

Letourneau — Review of Italian anthropology. Rev. d^mthrop., 1880, 
pp. 132-134. 

Manouvrier, L. — Reviews of Italian anthropology. Rev. d-anthrop., 
1880, pp. 335-344. Scapular index, id., pp. 500-505. French an- 
thropology, pp. 532-538. Italian, i)p. 239-442, 702. 

Martinet, Ludovic — Review of anthropology in Italy. Rev. d'an- 
throp., 1880, J). 102. Materiaux pour I'histoire de Thomme, id., i)- 
280. See, also, pp. 303; 518. 

Mason, Otis T. — Anthropological investigations during the year 1879. 
Smithson. Rep., 1879, pp. 449-475. 

Summary of correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution 

previous to Jan. 1, 1880, in answer to Circular Xo. 310. Smithson. 
Rep., 1879, pp. 428-448. 

Sketch of North American anthropology in 1879. Am. JStatu- 

ralist, May. 

Notes on anthropology. With bibliography. Am. Natuyalist, 



Jan.-Dec, 1880. 

Mittheilungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wien. Vol. 
i-ix, 1871-80. 

Much, M. — Bericht iiber die Versammlung osterreichischer Anthropo- 
logen und Urgeschichtsforscher am 28. und 29. Juli 1879, zu Lai- 
bach. Mitth. d. Anthrop. Geselhch. in Wie7i, 1880, x, pp. 1-5. 

Museum of Natural History, Paris. Courses of stud.y and conferences 
on anthropology. Rev. d'antlirop., 1880, pi>. 309, 

Mycenae. Compte rendu de la Commission imi)eriale archeologique 
pour I'annee 1877. (St. Petersburg.) Mykenai, ein kritische 
Untersuchung der Schliemannschen Alterthiimer untere Verglei- 
chung russischer Funde. Von Ernst Schultze. (St. Petersburg ) 
(Reviewed in The Athenaeum, Aug. 21, 1880.) 

Norton, C. E. (Cambridge, Mass.) — See first annual rejiort of the 
Archaeological Institute of America. 

Peabody Museum. Twelfth and thirteenth annual reports of the trus- 
tees of the Peabody Museum of American Archieology and Ethnol- 



438 ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Peabody Museum, (continued.) 

ogy, presented to tbe President and Fellows of Harvard College, 
April, ISSO. Vol. II. Nos. 3, 4. Cambridge, 1880. 

[The contents of this volume are distributed among the names of 
their authors.] 

Peteema]N"]N''s Mittheilungeu — [Each number of this standard journal 
furnishes several pages of geographical bibliography. The works 
mentioned, especially those under Asia, Africa, Polynesia, and 
America, frequently contain exceedingly valuable chapters upon 
the aborigines of the regions explored.] 

Powell, J. W. — On the limitations to the use of some anthropologi- 
cal data: annual address of the President of the Washington An- 
thro])ological Society. Tr. Anthrop. Soc. Washington, i, p. 113. 

Pozzi, Dr. — Paul Broca. Biographic el; bibliographie. Rev. (Van- 
throp., 1880, pp. 577-609. 

Sketch of Lewis H. Morgan. Poj). Sc. Month., IsTov. 

PuLLiGNY, Vte. de — Lecture ii la Sorbonne, section d'archeologie. 
Projet de vulgarisation des sciences prehistorique et geologique 
dans les ecoles communales. pp. 12. 8°. 1880. 

Eeclus, Elisee — Xouvelle geographie universelle. La terre et les 
hommes. Tome V. L'Europe scandinave et russe. Paris, Ha- 
chette et Cie., 1880. iv-944 i^p., cartes et dessins. 8°. 

Kevue d'anthroi^ologie — Paris, France. Published vol. ii, 2d series, 
Nos. 1-4. 

Revue de I'Histoire des religions, publiee sous la direction de M. Mau- 
rice Verues avec le concours de MM. A. Barth, A. Bouche-Leclercq, 
P. Decharme, S. Guyard, G. Maspero, and C. P. Tiele (of Leydeu). 
Premiere annee, tome ii, ISTo. 5, Sept., Oct. Paris, Ernest Leroux, 
editeur, 1880. (Anuales du IMusee Guimet.) The Eeviewis purely 
historical, excluding everything of a i)olemic or dogmatic character. 
A very excellent bibliography is appended to each number. 

Ehees, Wm. J. — Visitors' guide to the Smithsonian Institution and 
National Museum. (Contains much valuable information relative 
to the national collections.) 

ItiBEiRO, Caelo« — Programme of the Congres international d'anthro- 
XJologie et d'archeologie prehistoriques. iSTinth meeting at Lisbon, 
1880, Sept. 20-29. 

Sabix, Joseph — A dictionary of books relating to America. Parts 00- 
70. Jose])h Sabine «& Sons, New York. 

Schmidt, Dr. Emil — Mittheilungeu aus der anthropologischen Lite- 
ratur Amerikas. (Brochure from Archiv fur Anthropologic.) 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xxii contains the fol- 
lowing memoirs: 
Antiquities of Tennessee, by Joseph Jones. 
Sc'uli>tnres of Santa Lucia, S. Habel. 
jVrchneological Collections of the National Museum, by Charles Eau. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 439 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, (continued.) 

The Palenque tablet, Charles Rau. 

Eemains of man in the Aleutian Islands, by W. H. Dall. 

SociETE d'anthropologie. Bureau for 1880. Rev. (Timthrop., 1880. p. 

187. 

Vars — Eeview of German anthropology. Rev. d^anthrop., 1880, pp. 170- 

174. 

WYROUBorii'^ G. — A propos d'anthropologie. Pliilos. positive rev. 

Sept., Oct. 
Zabaeowski, M. — Eeview of anthropological literature in Poland, 

France, and Portugal. Rev. d'anthrop., 1880, pp. 90 ; 101; 109. See, 

also, pp. 320; 366; 506; 678; 713. 



/ 



ABSTRACTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN CORRESPONDENCE RELA- 
TIVE TO ABORIGINAL REMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 



By Otis T. Mason. 



Very important information relative to the antiquities of our coun- 
try continues to appear in the correspondence of tlie Smithsonian In- 
stitution in response to Circular No. 31G. Tluit which relates to relics 
is preserved by Professor Charles Ran. It only remains, therefore, here 
to collect and publish that which refers to the permanent remains of 
the country, such as shell-heaps, mounds, circumvallations, pueblos, 
&c. The diligence and care with which the locations and characteris- 
tics of such structures are marked and preserved by the intelligent na- 
tions of the Old Woild should be an example to us with reference to 
oui' own country. Very few persons realize the preciousness of such a 
statement as "There are no ancient remains whatever in my county,' 
or "There are shell-heaps, mounds, or ancient earth-walls in such a 
place." It is designed by the Institution, when the permanent work on 
archaeology is published, to have no blank spaces whatever; but to be 
able to give an intelligent account of every county and even every town- 
ship in the United States. 

Barnard, D. Mentions an old graveyard near San Buenaventura, Cal., 
where, under large flat bowlders, lay skeletons with chipped imple- 
ments, beads, mica crucibles, red paint, mortars and pestles, and vases 
or urns. 

Billings, Melvin. Sends to the institution specimens from mounds 
and graves near Marion Centre, Kans. Among them was a tablet 
found 8 feet below the surface, on the second bottom, beneath a de- 
posit of clay, surrounded by about a bushel of ashes, shells, and broken 
pottery. 

Brace, A. L. Has forwarded description and drawing of a flint flake 
found in an excavation 3 feet under the surface in a yellow bed of 
clay, at Amazonia, Andrew County, Missouri. The implement is 14^ 
inches long, 5J inches wide, and 1 inch thick in the widest part. Mr. 
Brace also describes other implements in his possession. 

Bush, Miss Jennie E. Gives notice of the destruction of the museum 
of the California State normal school, February 10, 1880 ; also an ac- 

441 



442 ABERIGINAL EEMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

count of a collection of stone implements from Coyote and Guadaloupe 
Eivers, California. [The Smitlisonian Institution is in receipt of let- 
ters constantly, giving account of the destruction of valuable collec- 
tions by fire. It has been the policy of the Institution to foster private 
and local museums in every possible way; but it is an irreparable loss 
to science when a large and unique collection is thus destroyed.] 

Chase, Alex. W. Mentions the site of a large buried village of stone 
houses on the mill-site of the Grand Central mine, near Tombstone, 
Ariz. In one house were seven skeletons, one of which had on the 
wrist a bracelet of ivory or bone beads. In one of the houses were 
found stone tools, mortars, &c. 

Click, Thomas M. Eeports that there are mauy ruins in Colorado, 
near Dolores, in La Plata County. The largest seen by the writer is 
situated on Animas River, in Taos County, j^ew Mexico. The build- 
ings are in groups. Two of the largest were five stories high, each 
about 100 to 120 yards square, built of stoDC and adobe mortar. The 
walls at the base are 3 feet thick, with small openings or windows G 
feet above ground to admit air, but not large enough to allow a man 
to pass through them. The floors were constructed by laying large 
cedar logs across the wall for joists, and by covering these with cedar 
splits and mud. The buildings stand in or near the centre of what 
was a town or village. The other houses were much smaller and built 
of small bowlders and mud. There are no cedars in the region at pres- 
ent so long and so large as those in the houses. Many remains of 
cliff-houses are found on the bluffs, some on the Dolores Eiver, in La 
Plata County. They are built of sandstone and mud. Pottery, ar- 
row-heads, corn-cobs, charcoal, stone axes and hammers, and skele- 
tons have been found in these ruins. The buryiug-groiinds are gen- 
erally laid out in a regular manner, the bodies being placed with the 
head to the west. Two skeletons were unearthed on the Rio Mancos, 
near Mancos P. O., La Plata County, that were lying one across the 
other, with an earthen jar under the head of each. 

Conway, John W. Describes a visit to the old abandoned pueblo of 
Cuyamanque, which was one of the first built in i^ew Mexico. The 
ruins are about four miles below the pueblo of Tesuque, on the west 
bank of the same river. This pueblo was destroyed in 1G97, by Gen- 
eral Diego de Vargas. Tesuque, Cuyamanque, Pojuaque, Xambe, San 
Ildefonso, Santa Clara, and San Juan had raised an insurrection, and 
collected together on a high mesa to fight the Spanish forces. They 
were completely routed, being driven across the Rio Grande, either 
to the cliff-houses on the west side of the Ildefonso, or over towards 
the ISfavajos country. The pueblos of Cuyamanque, Pojuaque, and 
Nambe were destroyed by General Vargas. Twenty years afterwards 
the Indians were brought back to their old dwellings, excepting those 
of Cuyamanque, who were scattered among the other pueblos. Dig- 
ging around this ruin, Mr. Conway discovered specimens of painted 
pottery, and stone implements. 



ABORIGINAL REMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 443 

Gushing, F. II. Gives information that anricnt excavations, supposed 
to be turquoise and jade mines, near Znui, K. Mex., turn out to be 
quarries of sacred paint. The principal source of supply for these 
precious stones lay across the Kio Grande, far north toward Santa Fc. 
The Zuili myth to account for those stones, as well as for a peculiar 
black bead which they highly prize, and for salt, is as follows: Gen- 
turies ago there was a great cacique who lived in the Sierra Azul, 
uor^h of Sail Mateo. Wherever he urinated, the droj^s became beau- 
tiful blue and green stones. When the Zuiiis Aconutes came to know 
of this they encamped so thickly around the cacique that the stench 
drove him away west on the Zuni i\Iountains, where he stopped to 
make water; but he was in such haste that the stones formed were not 
pure chalchiuite. This side the mountain he met the woman whose 
urine was transformed into salt. He settled down with her a mile or 
two east of Zuhi; l)ut again fled in anger from his house, around which 
the people flocked. This time he went south to the desert, and there 
lived with his wife, her m-ine forming the lake of salt (" SaUna"), which 
is to-day the source of supply to the Indians. The woman becoming 
angry with the cacique, drove himiuto a cave in the White Mountains 
of Arizona, whence he disappeared forever. Since then, a strong 
wind has blown from the cave sufBcient to extinguish the torches. 
Nevertheless, the people felt their way in through the darkness, and 
found the precious stones. On this account a part of them were turned 
black, and large flies were caused to live about the place m summer. 
The people, however, have persisted in going there, and found among 
other things the discolored beads worn by the Zunis. At this place, 
the cacique's urine was changed into perfectly finished and drilled 
stone, and in that condition they are still found. The cave in ques- 
tion is like that of Silver Gity, and identical in use with the sacred 
dance cave of Zuiii, where paraphernaUa are placed, and costly sacri- 
fices of chalchiuites are now made. 
Dover, Thomas. Describes frog pipe and charred cloth from a mound 

in Butler Gounty, Ohio. 
Earhart, John S. Witnessed the demolition of a mound caused by the 
construction of the Gincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railroad, one mile 
south of Post Town station, and two miles north of Middletown, Butler 
Gounty, Ohio. The mound was in the level plain of the first bottom 
land of the Miami Eiver, 30 feet in base diameter, and 15 feet high. 
Two-thirds of the mass were removed 3 feet below the original surface. 
In the centre, rolls of textile fabric were found, varying from the fine- 
ness of three-ply carpet to the coarseness of a gunny bag, and pre- 
served in shape by the moisture of the earth. These rolls were 6 
inches in diameter at first, but were much broken by removal, and m 
coming in contact with the air were wafted away by the slightest 
breeze. Specimens were preserved by hermetically sealing them, 
while damp, between pieces of glass. A spear-head, 8 inches long 



444 ABORIGINAL EEMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

and 2 inches wide, was also unearthed. On further examination 
among the burnt clay and charcoal, a few bones of a human hand 
were recovered. 

Eaton, D. H. Eeports the collection of antiquities from Bridgewater, 
Mass. 

Evans, W. W. At Pompeii, Italy, discovered by actual measure- 
ment that the gauge of the ancient chariots was nearly that of our 
modern wagons, viz, about 4 feet 9 inches. He also believes from 
the charred condition of window and door jambs that Herculaueum 
and Pompeii were overwhelmed in about half an hour ; one by a river 
of lava, and the other by a shower of ashes and stone. 

EvERHART, J. F. Eeports a mound in Brush Creek Township, Mus- 
kingum County, Ohio; trees, apparently in rows, and arranged quin- 
cuncially were growing on the mound. Just below the trees was a 
stone wall. Across the south end a pavement of loose stones extended, 
and one of flagging occupied the middle, on which were ashes and 
bones of man and of animals. In the mound were found skeletons of 
great length. 

Harris, Geo. H. Finds a rich field of antiquarian research in the 
ridges running through the counties bordering on the south shore of 
Lake Ontario. 

Henderson, J, G. Has made excavations in i!^aples mounds, Illinois. 
Full report in preparation. 

Jones, George C. Describes a ploughed field near Brookfield Centre, 
Conn., in which a great number of flint chips and small arrow-heads 
of white quartz and feldspar were found. The material from which 
these were made was brought from a great distance. A quarter of a 
mile from this field a mound 15 leet long, 12 feet wide, and 3 feet high 
was discovered ; but on opening it, Mr. Jones found no remains. A 
ceremonial axe was dug up near Brookfield, in a swamp. 

Kerne, Lieut. L. M. Sends an arrow-head from the old French fort on 
the bank of the Beaufort River, near Port Eoyal, S. C. This fort was 
built by the expedition that landed at Port Eoyal in 1502, under Jean 
Eibault. 

Larmour, J. J. Eeports a great many small mounds in the neighbor- 
hood of Battle Creek, Michigan; but few contain any bones. Some 
have been exi)lored. 

Locke, W. M. Describes a group of small mounds near Marshall's Ferry, 
White County, Illinois, situated on the highest point of land. The larg- 
est is 15 feet high and 35 to 40 feet in base diameter. Within the 
mounds were slab graves, containing the bones of children. Mr. Locke 
also found pots which contained small human bones. In one large 
cist the remains of an adult female were discovered. Drawings of 
pottery and relics accompany the letter. 

Love, A. C. Mentions a group of unexplored earthworks in Ascension 
Parish, La. 



ABORIGINAL EEMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 445 

Low, Charles F. Eeports upon the explorations at Madisonville, Ohio, 
mentioned by Dr. Metz, having exhumed .370 skeletons and explored 
175 ash-pits. 

Maclean, J. P. Mentions several pieces of cloth from a mound in 
Butler County, Ohio. 

Metz, C. L. Eeports the opening of twenty-five circular pits in a ceme- 
tery near IMadisonville, Ohio, containing ashes, animal remains, im- 
plements of flint, stone, and bone. The depth of the pits, from 4 to G 
feet ; the width, 3 feet ; the sides and bottom show no evidence of fire. 
Some contain likewise large sherds of pottery and unio shells. The 
contents are usually as follows : One to three feet ashes, containing 
bone, flint, and some stone implements, with sherds of pottery and 
animal remains. Above this is a heavy layer of clay loam, 1 to 4 feet 
thick. None of the implements show the action of fire, manj^ fine 
bone awls having been found ', nor are the animal remains charred at 
all. A few burnt bones were probably thrown in with the ashes. 
(Detailed reports, in the Journal of the Cincinnati Society of jSTatnral 
History, vol. iii, pp. 40-68 ; 128-139 ; 203-220.) 

Morgan, B. Describes the Des Moines Valley as rich in mounds and 
relics. He has excavated more than one hundred works in different 
parts of the State. From these have been collected stone implements 
and pottery. In some of the works examined there are indications of 
great age. The writer, has opened mounds near Eichland, Iowa, meas- 
uring 250 feet in base circumference and 2 feet in height. At a depth 
of about 20 inches pottery was found, some of the vessels very large 
and shaped lilce a common dinner pot. Around the rim frequently 
occurs a narrow band, divided into triangular spaces, which are filled 
with parallel lines running vertically and horizontally in the alternate 
triangles. 

Palmer, Edward. Has forwarded a mummy from Monterey, Mex., 
presented to the Smithsonian Institntion by Don Ignacio Galerido. It 
was procured from a cave near Coyote, in Coahuila, latitude 25° 15', 
longitude 103 west from Gr., near the western border of the State. It 
is encased in a garment much like that of the ancient Peruvians. In 
the States of Dnrango aTid Chihuahua, Mex., there are said to be caves 
containing Indian remains. 

Previe, Frederick, Jr. Describes a mound at Waynesborough, Au- 
gusta County, Virginia, 500 feet long, 250 feet wide, and 40 feet high, 
close to the Chesapeake and Ohio Eailroad, on the south side, and 2^ 
miles west of Eockfish Gap tunnel, 

Eansburg, W. C. Is making a thorough survey of the La Porte group 
of mounds in Indiana. 

Eedding, B. B. Mentions an obsidian spear-head, 7 inches long, 3^ 
inches wide, found beneath the drift and boulders which compose the 
placer diggings. Mr. Eedding regards this implement as an evidence 
of the existence of pliocene man in California. 



446 ABORIGINAL REMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

EEmsCH, A. Explored two mounds on Walnut Eiver, in Cowley County, 
Kansas. They are 30 rods apart, 30 feet in diameter, and at present 
18 inches high. They were originally between 3 and 4 feet high. A 
trench 3 feet wide was dug to the centre of one of them. Bones, pot- 
sherds, charcoal, jasper chips, and arrow-points were found at a depth 
of feet, or about 4 feet below the surface. Mr. Eeinsch also sends 
drawings of implements, among them a hollowed grinding-stone of 
whitish limestone. 

EoBiNSON, A. P. Sends a map of Cofley County, Kansas, on which are 
marked the locations of antiquities. Along the summit of the bluff', 
on Wolf Creek, many stone heaps are found, containing shells of unios, 
such as now live in the ]S"eosho Eiver, which is at present a mile away. 
At the foot of the bluff, by the cutting of the Missouri, Kansas and 
Texas Eailroad, many arrow-heads were unearthed. By digging a 
ditch, what was loossibly a cremation site was passed through, and a 
few knives and arrow-heads were found. The ashes, &c., were from 
4 to 5 feet below the surface, and over the sites were growing oaks 3 
to 4 feet in diameter. In this locality many fragments of pottery 
were discovered, but only a slight investigation was made. 

Shippen, Edvtard. Mentions a mound in Ballard County, Kentucky, 1 
mile from the Ohio Eiver, from which he took 437 arrow-heads, 1 
spear-point, 7 flint axes, 9 pipes, 24 vessels of clay, and many pottery 
fragments. The letter is accompanied with drawings of implements. 

Spray, S. J. Eeports that the region around Marysville, Blount County, 
Tennessee, is rich in relics of the Mound -Builders. 

Strong, Lorenzo. States that no mounds or earthworks occur near 
Strongville, Cuyahoga County, Ohio. Stone implements are found 
in abundance. 

Swan, James Ct. Sends to the ]N'ational Museum a carved seal club, 
or tinethl, as it is called by the Makali Indians. This specimen was 
made by a young Indian of the Clyoquot tribe, on the west coast of 
Vancouver's Island, B. C. His name is Artlyu, or Benjamin. He is 
a son of Cdakanini, a chief of the tribe, and a great grandson of 
Wikananish, the great chief mentioned by Mears and other early 
navigators. This young man was one of the party who saved the 
captain and crew of the American bark General Cobb, wrecked off 
Clyoquot last winter. A jihotograph of Artlyu was inclosed by Mr. 
Swan, showing the club before it was painted, and a rattle in his right 
hand, such as is used during the medicine dance. This club is very in- 
teresting and very highly prized. It is not intended for use as a seal 
club, but to be exhibited on ceremonial or state occasions, as an ensign 
of the rank of the family. It rei^resents a dream of old Wikananish, 
which was so strongly impressed on his mind that he related it as an 
actual occurrence. It was believed by his family, and the legend has 
been handed down to the present day. The story was related by Ben- 
jamin, as follows : 



ABORIGINAL REMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 447 

'' Wikauanish was a great hunter of sea otter and seal; be could 
chase them into the deep water and there kill them with a blow of his 
clenched fist. He thus excited the auger of the Sheeschce a fabulous 
animal, half wolf and half fish. The head and forebody was wolf 
{Chi(chnhuiojcl), and the body and tail were the Kotrid, or Killer, Orca 
ater (Cope). On one occasion, after he had been pnrsuing otters, he 
came ashore tired and lay down to sleep. He then dreamed that the 
Shecschec chased him ashore, but he made his escape, and a panther, 
ISfani, rushed on him, seizing both feet in his mouth, and throwing 
him on top of his head, where he was held by the fore paws of the 
animal. Wbile in this position the Shccschee came up and seized the 
Wani by the hind quarters. The Thunder bird ( ThluMoots) then seized 
the SJieeschee by the tail with his beak and grasped with liis powerfnl 
claws the fin and back of the Killer, and spreading his wings flew olf 
with the whole party to the mountains, where Wikananish made his 
escape." 

He told this dream so often that he came at last to believe it to be a 
reality. The snake in the mouth of the Sheeschec is emblematic of the 
Hahaleioak, or producer of lightning. This animal is also seen painted 
on each side of the bird's body. The face on the bird's tail indicates 
that it sees in all directions, and the sun on the bird's wings shows 
that it is the true bird of the sun, which is looked on by the coast tribes 
as the visible symbol of the Great Spirit. The swivel and three links 
of chain at the top of the handle of the club represent a piece of chain 
which old Wikananish procured from the vessel of the Spanish Com- 
mander Quadra, and showed them as a proof that he was a great chief. 
They were scoured bright, and during the presentation of gifts after 
a great banquet they were rattled each time a blanket was given to 
a guest. This specimen is the finest carving which has been seen here, 
done by an Indian south of Queen Charlotte Islands, and is valued at 
twenty blankets, although the writer procured it for as many dollars, 
as a mark of personal esteem. 

Taylor, Wm. J. Describes two New Eiver mounds, in the ninth dis- 
trict of Berrien County, Georgia, on lot 275, G miles southwest of Nash- 
ville. They are on a dry sandy level near the edge of the hammock 
between a branch and a creek, 100 yards from the former and 300 from 
the latter. They were about 30 feet in base diameter and -I feet high, 
and contained only ashes and charcoal. 

Thorn, H. T. Mentions two groups of mounds near Eollag, Clay County, 
Minnesota. One is half a mile northeast of Prairie Lake post-office, 
Bangor, Otter Tail County; the other a mile and a half southeast of 
Cormorant Lake, Becker County. There are two mounds in each 
group, but they have not been explored. On the authority of Mr. 
Ole Clousen, rock paintings are met with in Rock County. 

TiTCOMB, H. R. States that at the mouth of the South Platte Caiion, on 
the right bank of the river, at a distance of one hundred or more yards, 



I ABOEIGINAL EEMAINS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

large stone about 4 J by 5 J feet on the upper surface. This face is 
v^^^cave and slopes at an angle of 12° to 15° from the horizon. The 
surface is covered with tigures cut deep in the rock, and a deep gutter 
incloses them and runs out at the lower edge and down 6 or 8 inches, 
where is a small hole, as though for the insertion of a peg to hang a 
vessel on. This neighborhood was at one time the camping ground 
of the Utes. The stone is in Acequia precinct, Douglas County, 
Colorado, on what is known as the Slocum ranch. 

Whitney, J. L. Writing from Rose Hill, Ohio, speaks of copper axes 
and shell objects from a mound half a mile from Sharpsburg, Mer- 
cer County, Ohio. Ten pairs of shell relics were found resembling 
the bottoms of sandals. The mounds at this point are composed of 
sand and gravel. A large quantity of shell beads, a copper axe, and 
the skeleton of a tall man were recovered from the same mound . There 
are several mounds at this point composed of sand and gravel. The 
largest contains a quantity of very fine grayish- white sand, very hard, 
and streaked with bands of pure white sand. 

Williamson, J. M. In opening shell mounds in Kentucky, found human 
bones showing the marks of teeth (human?), and many that had been 
split. Fragments of crania and jaw bones were seen mingled with 
images and perforated shells. 

WiLTHEis, C. T., of Piqua, Ohio. Describes and figures an inscribed 
stone, a gneiss bowlder, with a granite vein through it, weight 13J 
pounds. The inscription is very rude. 

Wood, Eev. Preston. The district lying north of Quincy, 111., in the 
confluence of the Illinois and Mississippi rivers, abounds in traces of 
the Mound-Builders. 

Woodman, H. T. Draws attention to a very curiously shaped earth 
mound, unlike any heretofore figured in that State, about 30 miles 
from Dubuque, Iowa. The mound will be figured and described. 

Wright, S. Hart. Sends drawing and description of a work on Bluif 
Point, Yates County, New York, covering seven acres, and reticulated 
with graded ways. 



K 



REPORT OF A VISIT TO THE LURAY CAVERN, IN PAGE COUNTY, 
VIRGINIA, UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE SMITHSONIAN IN- 
STITUTION, JULY 13 AND 14, 1880. 



During tlie summer of 1880 a party was sent out by the Smithsonian 
Institution to investigate the famous Luray Cavern in Page County^ 
Virginia. An invitation had been extended by Messrs. Campbell and 
Stebbius, the proprietors of the cave, and Mr. Eobert Garrett, vice- 
president of the Baltimore and Ohio Eailroad, courteously granted passe* 
over his road. 

The party consisted of Wm. J. Rhees, chief clerk, Daniel Leech, cor- 
responding clerk, Dr. Charles A. White, geologist, Prof. Charles Eau,. 
archaeologist, Prof. Otis T. Mason, ethnologist, Prof. Fred. W. Taylor^ 
chemist, Dr. Elmer E. Eeynolds, ethnologist, T. W. Smillie, photog- 
rapher, and Prof. J. H. Gore, civil engineer. 

Leaving Washington at 8.35 on the morning of July 12, the tourists,, 
after passing Point of Eocks, Harper's Ferry, Charlestown, Winchester^ 
Strasburg, aud Woodstock, all made memorable in the late civil war^ 
arrived at New Market at 2.44 p. m. Having selected quarters for the 
night, they made an excursion to the "Endless Caverns," about four 
miles south of the town. These caverns constitute, together, a series 
of very j^retty grottoes, but no examination of them was allowed by the 
proprietors. • Mr. Smillie, however, secured some very fine negatives of 
valley scenery. 

After a night of refreshing sleep, the explorers were ready to mount 
Burke's tally-ho early the next morning for a most romantic ride over 
the Massanutton Mountain to Luray. Nothing could exceed for variety 
of quiet rural beauty the ever-changing landscape revealed in the great 
Shenandoah Valley at each turn of the winding ascent. There was 
plenty of time, as the stage lumbered along, to alight aud walk leisurely 
behind in order to look back over the magnificent amphitheatre. Ar- 
rived at the crest, all were ordered to mount to their seats in order to 
" make time" down the tortuous eastern slope to the i^lace of destination. 
A very picturesque ford of the east fork of the Shenandoah forms the 
gateway to the lovely Page Valley, having the Blue Eidge in the back- 
ground. 

Four miles of rolling limestone road brought the travelers to the 
quaint old town of Luray, straggling along the turnpike, aud contain- 
S. Mis. 31 29 449 



450 



LURAY CAVERX, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 



iug about 600 inhabitants. Those seeking a shorter route to the caverns 
Tiiay now go by rail directly to the spot over the recentlj'-conipleted 
Shenandoah Valley Eailroad. To select quarters for the night, to eat a 
.sumjituous dinner, and to don their old clothes, occupied the j^arty but 
.:a short time, and then all were ready to mount the tally-ho for the 
<cave, which is situated on the north side of the turnpike about a mile 
west of the town. The entrance is near the summit of a rolling hill. 

Before entering, the party listened to an interesting account of the 
.^search for the cavern by Mr. Stebbins, and, under the instruction of 
Trofessor White, observed carefully its topographical and geological 
environment. 




The Blue Ridge and Town of Lnrav from Cave Hill. 



Tor many years a small cave has been known in one of the hills near 
Luray, but it was not until August, 1878, that this wonderful freak of 
nature was discovered. This was due to the curiosity of Mr. B. P. Steb- 
l)ins, a traveling photographer, who was convinced that the old cave was 
only a part of other similar formations. After diligent search, numerous 
<liggings, and considerable expenditure of time and money, with no little 
ridicule from the villagers, he was rewarded by the brilliant discovery. 
Andrew J. Cami)bell, of Luray, was the first to enter the cave. 

At this point Page Yalley is sev^eral miles wide, and is bordered 
"Upon the east by the Blue Eidge, and upon the west by the Massanutton 
JVIountain. The general surface is considerably diversified, and the 



l.URAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 451 

rock stratum out of which the cavity has been excavated appears fre- 
quently on the surface throughout the neighborhood. The cave, there- 
fore, is not in the side of a mountain, as most of the party had supposed, 
but at least four or five miles from the mountain ranges on either side. 
It has no obvious relation with them, except that its origin was partly 
coincident with their origin, and with the excavation of the valley by 
erosion. Indeed, it must be remembered that this gnawing away of ma- 
terial has produced not only the valleys, but the mountains themselves 
as they now exist, although they have such a considerable elevation 
above the lowlands. 

The rocks throughout the whole of this region have been much dis- 
placed, having been flexed into great folds, the direction of which coin- 
cides with that of the Appalachian mountain range. In fact, these 
folds are a remnant of the results of that series of movements in which 
the whole system primarily originated. 

The rock out of which Luray Cavern has been excavated is a compact, 
bluish limestone, not very evenly bedded, and weathering ruggedly on 
account of its heterogeneous texture. The few fossils discovered indi- 
cate that this limestone stratum is of Lower Silurian, probably belong- 
ing to the Trenton period. 

The position of the cav^e in the middle of an open valley, distant from 
the mountains, and so much below their crests, shows that it was hollowed 
out toward the close of the epoch within which the formation of the vaUey 
took i^Iace. The charac^ter of the erosion leads to the conviction that 
the excavation was effected subsequently to the formation of the great 
folds referred to above. It is also plain that the foldings took place 
after the close of the Carboniferous period, because the strata of that 
period and those of later date are known to have been involved. 

It is thus evident that the geological date of the origination of Luray 
Cave, although it is carved out of Silurian limestone, is considerably 
later than the close of the Carboniferous period. None of the facts yet 
ascertained warrant a more definite conclusion concerning the limits of 
the antiquity of the souterraiu, and the most recent epoch at which it 
might have been formed is the Tertiary. It is highly probable that the 
date of its origination is not more ancient than that of the Mammoth 
Cave or the Wyandotte. 

The history of its i^roduction is, of course, divided into two periods, 
namely, its excavation and ornamentation. The latter was wholly pro- 
duced after, and perhaps long after, the chasm was finished. The 
cavity was wrought by the same agencies that produce all such effects 
in limestone formations, namely, by the erosion and by the dissolving 
action of water holding carbonic acid in solution, and coursing through 
previously formed fissures in the rocks. These cavities gradually be- 
come enlarged into chambers by the falling and removal of loose mate- 
rial to lower levels, and even through open outlets to the general drain- 
age of the country. 



452 LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 

The ornamentation of the cave, composed of lime carbonate, in the 
form of stalactite, stalagmite, calcareous tufa, travertine, cave pearls, 
calcite crystals, &c., has been produced by the precipitation of that 
mineral from solution in water, formerly percolating freely through the 
crevices of the rock which formed the ceiling, after the process of hol- 
lowing out was comi)leted. 

With these preliminary observations the party equipped themselves 
for their subterraneous journey each with a tin frame holding three 
lighted candles. The cold current of air around the mouth of the 
abyss warned them that their comfort would be enhanced by a 
heavy coat to enable them to sustain the shock of a sudden change 
in temperature from 96° to 56° Fahrenheit. The first descent is 
down a broad flight of square stone steps to a landing 50 feet below 
the surface. A short walk along a narrow passage leads to the vesti- 
bule, or entrance chamber, an irregularly shaped room 35 feet high and 
nearly 200 feet in diameter in the widest portion, the walls descending 
and contracting in an erratic and picturesque manner. As this was 
the first cave experience of most of the party, the unexj^ected magnitude 
of the chamber, the almost tangible darkness, the great variety of mas- 
sive and curious forms, the ghastly shadows flitting about with their 
feeble caudles, filled up the measure of expectancy. Indeed, had there 
been no rooms beyond far surpassing this one in every respect, all would 
have been perfectly satisfied. A very remarkable object in this cham- 
ber is Washington's Column, a monster pillar, nearly 25 feet in diameter, 
and very handsomely fluted. 

A long, arched, irregular space beyond the vestibule, studded with 
fungoid and stalactites, has received the name of the Vegetable Garden, 
from the exquisite varieties of the incrustations. The botryoidal stalac-' 
tites excited the admiration of the whole party. Wandering through this 
space, the explorers descended a well-built wooden staircase to Muddy 
Lake, passing across which over a wooden bridge, they were shown the 
Bear's Tracks, curious indentations on the tufaceous covering of a ledge, 
very strongly resembling the scratches made by an animal holding on 
by its claws. The next point of interest is the theater — a suggestive 
title from the resemblance to a great audience hall. 

Ascending to the left the party came to the Fish Market. Here, on 
the side of a projecting wall, or series of escarpments, depend hundreds 
of sheet-like stalactites, mimicking most wonderfully rows of fish ex- 
posed for sale. Indeed, one has no difficulty about the identification of 
the species of bass, perch, shad, mackerel, &c. ; some being gray all over, 
others having black backs and white bellies, and the illusion being per- 
fected by a sufficient trickling to give a slimy, fishy appearance to the 
objects. All pronounced this to be the most curious, though not by any 
means the grandest and most imi^ressive, object in the cavern. 

From the Fish Market the path to the right leads to the Elfin Ramble, 
a low, open chamber, from 1 to 10 feet high, GOO feet long, and 300 feet 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 



453 



in breadth. Crossiug- the Ramble by a deep trench cut through the 
travertine floor and the cave chiy, tlie party stood on the edge of IMuto's 
Chasui, a rift 500 feet h)ng, 70 feet deep, and 10 to 50 feet across, and 
with lighted candles in front of them sought to penetrate the darkness. 
Fifty candles combine their ineffectual fires to dissipate the gloom, but 
they only serve to indicate the locality of their possessors. Here is the 
awe-inspiring spot in all the cave. There is greater beauty, richer 
variety of form and color in many places, but no view stirs the sense of 
dreadful mystery like that from the balustrade of Pluto's Chasm. Fol- 
lowing the guides down a long, rocky descent, which bears away to the 
right past the edge of the chasm, the party reached the bottom of this dark 
chamber. From this point a fine view is obtained of the Specter, a tall 
snow-white stalagmite, looming up in the darkness in a very ghostly 
manner. This is a cul de sac, and it is necessary to retrace one's steps to 




The Fish Market. 



the Fish Market before making a new departure. Indeed, the astonish- 
ing fact was that the whole cavern occupies such a small area. In Mam- 
moth Cave one can walk more than ten continuous miles without doub- 
ling on his tracks. At Luray the chambers branch off in most fantastic 
form about the entrance until one is entirely bewildered. Again, in 
Luray Cave there are no contracted squeezes, no crawling, no break- 
neck climbings, no miry pools, but one may get about with almost as 
much ease as in the open fields. 



LUKAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 

1 the side of a rocky ledge by the path leading to the Fish Market 
is a miniature lake, in which the formation of calcite crystals is yet 
going on. It is a very beautiful object, the snow-white crystals forming 
a pleasing contrast with the brown color of the surrounding rock. 




The SeDtiuel and Spectre. 



The Grotto of Oberon is reached by crossing the Chasm. Here is a 
diminutive fountain surrounded by innumerable stalactites of great 
beauty. Just beyond lies the Bridal Chamber, so called on account of the 
delicately veiled stalactites and stalagmites occurring there. TJutil one 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 



455 



has stood before these objects with romantic names, it occurs to him that 
the fancy of the narrator has quite as much to do with the matter as the 
resemWance of the objects. But all such doubt vanishes in the presence? 
of creations which call forth spontaneously from all beholders the same ex- 
clamations. It was so in this chamber. The long, white, trailing masses- 
of alabaster suggested tbe same idea to all, and the absolute, starless-> 
night of shade on every side helped to complete the illusion. Just beyond 
the Bridal Chamber is Giant Hall, where beauty gives place to wonder — 
the loveliness of Grecian finesse to the overpowering sense of Egyptian 
massiveuess. Among the objects of special interest at this point are 
Titania's Veil and Diana's Bath, and, just beyond, the Saracen's Tent. 
The last-named object attracted a great deal of attention, and vividly 
recalled the pictures of crusading times, wherein the conical tent witb 
its amjde folds is decorated with the armorial devices of the occuiiant 
and surmounted by his banner. 




The Saracen's Tent. 

The next object of interest is the Cathedral, with its fantastic freseoe^ 
and stone organ. From the ceiling and walls depend thin sheets of 
stalactite of various lengths, which, upon being struck, give forth tones^ 
of great softness and effect. The impression made upon the party- 
wandering through these dark abysses, when Mv. Campbell, without, 
previous warning, played a familiar air, will hardly be forgotten. 

There is nothing more beautiful in the cave than these scarfs, shawls^ 



456 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 



lambrequins— what shall we call them — of translucent calcite, some white 
as snow, others impregnated with the impurities of the soil above, falling 
in graceful folds, fringed with a thousand patterns, and so thin that a candle 
held behind one of them reveals all the structure within. With much 




The Cathedral (Giant's Hall). 

regret the visitor sees the curtain fall upon this enchanted spot, but his 
sense of novelty is redoubled as he passes on to the Fallen Column, 
strangely misnamed. Once it hung from the lofty ceiling above, in com- 
pany with many others, a ponderous mass over 50 feet long, at least 14 
feet in its greatest diameter, and weighing about 400 tons. The entire 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 457 

collection of these immense stalactites at this portion of the cavern re- 
sembles a great inverted forest of blasted trunks. The only spot in all 
the abyss where a sense of danger and utter helplessness seizes the ex- 
plorer is when he stands beneath these magnificent stalactites, weighing 
over 500 tons each, held to the roof only by their own cohesion, and capa- 
ble of falling, as evidenced by the prostrate giant before him. This feel- 
ing quickly subsides, however, when, upon closer inspection, he sees the 
fluted sidesof the ftillen one supportinglong rows of secondary stalactites 
which indicate that perhaps centuries have elapsed since the crash of its 
downfall reverberated through these lonely halls. Drooping over the 
column to the right is the Angel's Wing, a formation of alabaster white- 
ness, nearly 10 feet high by 7 wide, and flecked all over with feather-like 
wrinkles. Truly one may be pardoned for giving his fancy loose rein, 
as he here beholds in this wing drooping over a fallen stalactite an em- 
blem of the flight of centuries. 

The Throne Room and the Throne, Chapman's Lake, the Tower of 
Babel, and Katie's Secret pass quickly in review as the path leads on 
to the Giants' Hall, the chef d'oeuvrc of this fairy underworld. On the 
verge of a towering cliff the beholder faces this chamber of wonders. 
Stretching away to the right is a seemingly interminable row of prodig- 
ious, glittering columns. They rise from out the depths of shade and 
are lost in the overhanging gloom. The magnesium light successfully 
combats these hosts of darkness and drives them into the alcoves and 
recesses above, beneath, and on either side, revealing forms of giant 
dimensions, weird outline, and infinite variety of ornament. Many feet 
below are the Chimes, — long sheeted stalactites, which on being vi- 
brated give forth a deep, tremulous peal of varied tone. 

The Empress Columns, the Sultana, the Double Columns, the Frozen 
Cascade, the Chalcedony Cascade, and the Hanging Eock being i^assed 
and admired, the scene opens into the Amphitheater, a large high-ceiled 
rotunda which has been tightly floored and fitted up with seats and 
chandeliers for a ball-room. Here on special occasions the citizens of 
Luray assemble to "chase the glowing hours with flying feet.'' Around 
the amphitheater are the Tombs of the Martyrs, Cinderella, and an end- 
less number of robed and spangled heroes and heroines as yet un- 
named. An ascent of two long flights of stairs leads from this rotunda 
to Campbell's Hall, an oblong chamber, about 200 feet in the long di- 
ameter and 50 feet high. The chief attraction of this room is the rich 
variety of coloring in the stalactites, including red, yellow, black, white, 
blue, gray, brown, with an infinite number of intermediate shades. 

The returning path leads through the Bridal Chamber, where at 
least one couple sought their introduction into the mysteries of wedded 
love. l!^ear at hand is the hollow column, a cylinder of great size, which 
rises from the floor and disappears through the ceiling as a stove-pipe. 
The column is hollow, as its name implies, a stream of water having 
worn away the center, through which, by means of a rope, an ascent can 
be made to a chamber nearly GO feet above. 



458 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 



Passing onward the visitor stops for a few moments to admire what 
seems to be the retreating form of a lady in full party toilet. Her head 
is just hid by the jamb of the distant doorway; but rounded shoulders, 
delicate arms, shapely waist, and long, flowing skirt and train, profusely 
ornamented, all are there. The proprietors have named this the Ladies' 
Toilet, but some of the Smithsonian party suggested the title " Cinderella 
leaving the Ball." The path leads hence across Pluto's Chasm, by the 
Bridge of Sighs, to a rift bearing the grim title of Skeleton Gulch. 




The Grand Gulch and Geyser. 

Here, 110 feet below the mouth of the Cliasm, in the bottom of a narrow 
trench, are the bones of what appears to have been a human being. The 
vandalism of former visitors made the proprietor rather shy of the ex- 
ploring party; but as far as could be made out a man or woman lost in 
the cave had wandered to the edge of Pluto's Chasm, and, fiilling over, 
had here become entombed. Most of the bones are concealed by the 
tufaceous floor which has formed over them, but protruding through 
and above this are to be seen the head of a femur with an inch or two 
of the vertebral column, two or three small pointed projections resem- 
bling teeth, and a portion of a third bone undetermined. It was abso- 
lutely impossible to gain any information concerning these bones which 
would be of scientific value. 

The ground passed over is only one-fourth of the cave accessible, with 
but little trouble, to visitors ; and yet the fleeting hours invite return and 
compel a speedy retreat. 



LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 459 

It is a matter of profound regret that the peculiar combiuatioii of un- 
toward circumstances prechided a more scientific examination of the 
Luray Cavern. It is quite certain that the work could be thoroughly 
done with little cost if the same party could have proper facilities an- 
other season. The daze of first impressions being off, there would be 
no hindrance to genuine work. An electric light should be used in 
place of the magnesium wire, and bearings, distances, and elevation 
carefully noted. ^ 

Comparing this great natural curiosity with others of the same class,\ 
it is safe to say that there is probably no other cave in the world more \ 
completely and profusely decorated with stalactitic and stalagmitic 
ornamentation than that at Luray. So abundant is this decoration that 
in only a small portion of the whole interior is unadorned rock visible. 
Here in this dark studio of nature are reproductions of all those 
objects which are wont to fill the mind with pleasure, wonder, or alarm — 
crystal fountains, spouting geysers, cascades, flower gardens, gems 
which are the crown jewels of nature set off against a background of 
velvet darkness, cathedrals gorgeously sculptured and frescoed, chimes 
and deep-toned organs, thrones, spectral beings, terrestrial, celestial, 
and infernal — objects whose multiplicity variety and splendor would ex- 
haust the whole literature of mythic and fairy lore, in providing names 
for their infinite diversity of beauty. The indications are that the work 
was done with comparative rapidity, and the present dryness is suffi- 
cient evidence that the process has nearly ceased. Indeed, with the ex- 
ception of a few spots where there is a slight percolation of water fi^om 
above, and a few where the gathering into pools allows the crystalliza- 
tion of the salts of lime, the atmosphere is all too dry for the deposition 
of lime carbonate. The cessation of the production of stalactites after 
the chambers had received their finishing touches was doubtless due to 
a change of condition of the land in the neighborhood, causing the drain- 
ing away into deeper channels of the surface water. This change prob- 
ably resulted from the further deepening of the bed of the neighboring 
stream, after the greater part of the ornamentation had been completed. 
These circumstances indicate some degree of geological antiquity for the 
Luray Cavern. Hence a date as early as the Tertiary period has been 
suggested, but there is no apparent reason why it may not be supposed 
to have originated in one of the Mesozoic periods. In auy case we may 
safely assume that the Luray Cavern long antedates the pristine man, 
although one of his descendants paid a fatal visit here long before Mr. 
Stebbins. 

The obscurity of the aperture through which it was discovered by its 
present proprietors (1878) would naturally suggest that its existence 
could not have been previously known. The discovery of parts of a 
skeleton of man or of some large vertebrate, mostly embedded in 
tufaceous carbonate of lime, at the bottom of a chasm, shows that it was 
at one time of easier access ; indeed, it is affirmed that former owners 



460 LURAY CAVERN, PAGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 

of the land had dumped loose rocks into the aperture to prevent young 
stock from wandering in and getting lost. The bones discovered are 
doubtless of considerable human antiquity ; but, as they are found upon 
one of the few spots in the cave where the tufaceous material is still 
forming, it would appear probable that their age may not exceed two 
hundred or three hundred years. 

A few insects have been found in Luray Cave, but a thorough exami- 
nation with a view to collecting its fauna could not be made in the short 
stay allowed the Smithsonian party. No streams or pools of water have 
as yet been found in which an aqueous fauna might exist, and from pres- 
ent indications it is likely that the variety of animal life will prove to be 
very limited. At present a few spiders, flies, and one myriapod are 
known. An account of the former will appear in the American Natur- 
alist, from the pen of the editor. Dr. A. S. Packard, jr. The myriapod 
has been described in volume iii, p. 524, of the Proceedings of the Na- 
tional Museum by Mr. J. A. Ryder and named zygonopus whitei in honor 
of Dr. C. A. White. 

The vegetable growth is far more limited in extent. The proprietors 
have been compelled to form the walks and balustrades, through the 
cave, of green planks. In several places the white mold hangs from the 
under side of these planks iu long graceful festoons, not unlike the moss 
upon the cypress trees of the South. 

The party were greatly pleased with the courtesies received at the 
hands of the proprietors of the caverns, the citizen of Luray, and the 
Baltimore and Ohio Kailroad Company, and only regret that their limited 
time and opportunities prevented their making a thorough scientific ex- 
ploration. 

The Institution is indebted to Mr. McDowell, treasurer of the Shenan- 
doah VaUey Eailroad, for the use of the illustrations in this article. 



DISCUSSION OF THE BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS OF PROF. E. S. 
SNELL (AMHERST COLLEGE). 



By Prof. F. H. Loud, of Colorado College. 



The meteorological register of Amherst College was begun in 1835 
by the late Prof. E. S. Snell, and consisted for the first year of a mere 
register of storms, to which daily observations of the thermometer and 
wind were added in 183G. Barometric observations were also begun in 
November, 183G, but the instrument employed for the first fifteen years 
was of inferior accuracy, and the observations were not corrected for 
capacity nor for temperature. With the beginning of the year 1852, 
new instruments by James Green — a barometer, thermometer, and psy- 
chrometer — were furnished by the Smithsonian Institution, and in 1854 
the uniform hours of observation recommended by the Institution were 
introduced. The thermometer previously in use was at the same time 
tested and approved by Professor Guyot. From that time to the present 
the same instruments, with the exception of one bulb of the psychrom- 
eter, have been in use iu the same positions ; and, together with gauges 
for rain and snow, they comprise all the instruments used in the daily 
observations. From the same time the hours of observation have re- 
mained unchanged, viz, 7 a. m. and 2 and 9 p. m. The series of twenty- 
five years of observations, from 1851 to 1878, is therefore as nearly as 
possible homogeneous throughout, and it is scarcely less so in respect 
of the observers who have been engaged upon it, for few of the observa- 
tions have been made by others than Professor Snell and one or two 
members of his family. His well-known scrupulous accuracy is there- 
fore characteristic of the whole work. In 1858 five months of observa- 
tion were made by the tutor in mathematics (now Rev. H. S. Kelsey, of 
Xew Haven) at his room in North College, the only instance of a removal 
of the instruments ; but before the barometer observations made during 
this interval were incorporated with the others in the present reduction 
they were corrected for difference of level, no such correction having been 
made at the time. 

Amherst is situated in latitude 42° 22', longitude 72° 30' W. The 
elevation of the barometer-cistern above the level of the sea was deter- 
mined by Professor Guyot at 267 feet, and this computation has been 



462 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



veritied by leveling from the track of the '^ew London Northern Rail- 
road, the height thus deduced being 26G.5 feet. The readings of the 
barometer have never been corrected for elevation, but represent the 
actual pressure at Amherst in inches of mercury at 32° Fahr. 

In regard to the fluctuation of atmospheric pressure, the observations 
at Amherst may probably be regarded as fairly representative of New 
England and the adjacent portion of New York. In confirmation of 
this opinion, the figures at the foot of this page are cited from a pam- 
phlet of " Meteorological Researches for the use of the Coast Pilot," 
published in 1877 by the United States Coast Survey. They are the co- 
efficients of Bessel's periodic function, under a modified form, in which 
ei represents the value which y, the time-angle, has at the maximum of 
the annual inequality, and =2 is the value of 2^ at the maximum of the 
semi-annual inequality. The coefficients Bo, Bi, B2 are expressed in mil- 
limeters. The places named in the first column are all those within the 
above-named region which are embraced in the tables of the pamphlet 
(pp. 33, 34). The data from which the numbers in the first seven 
lines were computed were originally published in 1861 by the Smith- 
sonian Institution (" Results of Meteorological Observations, 1854-'59") ; 
those in the seven following lines were derived from the Reports of the 
Chief Signal Officer, 1872-1876. The latter are reduced to sea-level; 
the former are not. None of the fourteen are based upon more than six 
years' observations. The values given separately for Amherst, below the 
rest, are taken from the present reduction of the twenty-five-year series, 
and it will be seen that except in the value of £2 they agree well with the 
mean of all the others. This angle £2 appears from the given values to 
be very variable when a comparison is made of different j)laces, or even 
of the same place in different short series of years, a circumstance, 
doubtless, connected with the fact that, as appears from the present 
reduction of the Amherst observations, the coefficient B2 of the term 
B2 cos {2(p — £2) is less than that of the following term in 3^,— of which 
term no account is made in the pamphlet. 



Place. 



Steuben, Me 

Gardiner, Me 

Nantucket, Mass . . . 
New Bedford, Mass 

Amherst, Mass 

Burlington, Vt 

Rochester, N. T 

Portland, Me 

Boston, Mass. .. 

New London, Conn. 

Burlington, Vt 

New York, N. Y ... 

Oswego, N. Y 

Rochester, N. Y 



mm. 
759.6 
757.0 
761.6 
759.5 
755.1 
751.9 
746.7 
761. 2 
761.8 
762.5 
761.5 
762.7 
761.7 
761.2 



Mean of the above 

Amherst, Mass I 754. f 



Bi 



Tnm. 
1.1 
1.2 
1.0 
1.1 
1.6 
1.1 
0.9 
0.4 
0.9 
1.0 
1.6 
1.3 
0.9 
1.2 



1.1 
1.2 



mm,. 
0.7 
0.5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.3 
0.6 
0.6 
0.4 
0.4 
0.3 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
0.4 



0.5 
0.5 



265 
290 
289 
277 
355 
261 
354 
297 
308 
323 
329 
339 
343 
340 



312° 9' 
308° 57' 



19 
350 
40 
51 
53 
30 
51 
56 
44 
63 
58 
49 
94 
320 



39° 9' 
82° 20' 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



4^3 



ANNUAL FLUCTUATION OF ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE. 

Ill order to deduce the annual march of atmospheric pressure with as 
much accuracy as the Amherst twenty-hve-year series renders possible, 
the first step lias been to derive the coefficients of Bessel's periodic func- 
tion from tlie given monthly means. These, as given in the records, 
were of course originally derived from the daily means, and these last 
iire simply the third part of the sum of the three daily observations, no 
additional weight being given to the evening observation. In the re- 
duction of the barometric observations no correction for hours of observa- 
tion has been attempted, but a correction for the unequal length of the 
calendar months was made in the manner presented by Mr. E. L. De 
Forest, and quoted on page 170 of Mr. Charles Schott's paper on tem- 
perature {Smithson. Conf., vol. XXI). The monthly means thus corrected 
are as follows : * 



January 29. 7742 

February 29. 7354 

March 29.6717 

April 29. 6776 

May 29.6588 

June 29. 6815 



July 29. 7065 

August 29. 7257 

September 29. 7968 

October 29. 7500 

November 29.7071 

December 29.7626 



The form of the function derived in this i^reliminary computation is 
the following: 

P = 29.7207+.0467 sin (^+142O20') + .02-J7 sin (2^+10O34') + .0241 sin 
(3 ^4. 440 41/) 4. .0139 sin (4^+92044'). 

From this formula a table of normal pressure for every day of the 
year was prepared, the value of P being computed directly from the 
formula for March 1st, and every tenth day thereafter to August l»3th; 
also for September 1st and every tenth day to February 28th. The 
values for the intermediate days were then obtained by interpolation, 
using second differences, except a few days at critical epochs, the values 
for which were again computed from the formula. The table of normal 
pressures thus deduced is as follows, the integral i)art of each value in 
this and succeeding tables of barometric pressures being omitted for 



*The amount of this correction for length of months maybe seen by comparing the 
means here given with those appended to Table I in the line headed " Means from Rec- 
ord." I did not think it necessary to verify the work of Professor Snell in obtaining 
the means of the single months from the daily means or the latter from the observed 
heights, especially as the formula resulting from the present computation is used only 
to direct the subsequent work. A separate determination of the mean monthly pres- 
sures, independent of the recorded monthly means, occurs at the end of Table II. 
Since my work was completed, however, I have received from H. A. Hazeu, M. A., a 
list of errors in the recorded monthly means which he has discovered in examining 
Professor Snell's work. Making allowance for these errors the mean monthly pres- 
sures, uncorrected for unequal lengths of the months, are as given in the last line of 
Table I, " Means from corrected record." In Table VI (the only remaining part of my 
work which is derived from the recorded monthly means) I have substituted Mr. 
Hazen's determinations wherever he has found those of Professor Snell erroneous. 



464 



DISCUSSIOX OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



brevity, as it is in every case 29 inches. The computation was ex- 
tended to four phices of decimals, though it has been thought unneces- 
sary to give more than three. 

Table I. 

Atmospheric pressure for every day in the year— from the periodic function. 



Day of the month. 



9. 
10 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 



Means 

Means from record. 



Means from corrected 
record 



785 
786 
786 
787 
787 
787 
788 
788 
788 
787 
787 
787 
786 
785 
784 
784 
783 
781 
780 
779 
777 
776 
774 
772 
770 
768 
766 
764 
762 
760 
758 



7791 
7740 



+ 57 
7727 



756 
753 
751 
749 
746 
744 
742 
739 
737 
735 
782 
730 
728 
726 
724 
721 
719 
717 
715 
713 
711 
710 
708 
706 
705 
703 
701 
700 
699 



7255 
7365 



-110 
7351 



698 

697 
096 
695 
693 
692 
691 
690 
689 
689 
688 
687 
686 
686 
685 
684 
684 
683 
682 
682 
681 
68] 
680 



679 
679 
678 
678 
677 
677 



.6854 
.6732 



+ 122 
.6732 



677 
676 
676 
675 
675 
674 
674 
673 
673 
672 
672 
671 
671 
670 
670 
669 
669 
668 
668 
667 
667 
666 
606 
666 
665 
665 
664 
604 
664 
063 



6696 
0780 



-84 
6818 



663 
663 
602 
662 
002 
662 
661 
661 
601 
001 
661 
661 
661 
662 
662 
662 
662 
663 
663 
003 
004 
664 
665 
665 
660 
667 
607 
668 
669 
669 
670 



671 

671 
672 
673 
074 
075 
670 
676 
677 
078 
079 
080 
681 
682 
682 
683 
684 



693 
693 
694 
694 
695 
695 
695 
690 
696 
697 
697 
697 
698 
698 
099 
099 
700 



685 700 



685 
686 
687 
687 
088 
089 
090 
690 
691 
691 
692 
692 



0030 .0822 

0588 . 6806 . 7057 



701 
701 
702 
702 
703 
704 
704 
705 
700 
707 
708 
709 
710 



3 


o 


< 


(» 


711 


767 


712 


709 


713 


771 


714 


772 


716 


774 


717 


770 


719 


777 


720 


779 


722 


780 


723 


782 


725 


783 


727 


784 


728 


785 


730 


786 


732 


787 


734 


788 


736 


789 


738 


789 


740 


790 


742 


790 


744 


790 


740 


790 


748 


790 


750 


790 


752 


789 


754 


789 


756 


788 


759 


788 


761 


787 


703 


786 


705 





785 
783 
782 
781 
779 
777 
776 
774 
772 
770 
708 
706 
703 
701 
759 
750 
751 
752 
749 
747 
744 
742 
740 
737 
735 
733 
730 
728 
720 
724 
722 



720 
719 
717 
715 
714 
712 
712 
710 
709 
709 
708 
707 
707 
707 
707 
707 
707 
707 
708 
708 
709 
710 
711 
712 
713 
715 
716 
218 
720 
721 



+48 
6594 



+16 
6822 



-58 
6978 



.7354 L7835 
.7250 1.7968 



+104 
.7280 



-133 
7954 



7558 '.7118 
7506 . 7068 



+47 
7516 



+ 50 
.7094 



725 
725 
727 
729 
73.J 
7?4 
V36 
738 
741 
743 
745 
748 
750 
752 
755 
757 
759 
761 
764 
766 
708 
770 
772 
774 
775 
777 
778 
780 
781 
783 
784 



.7557 
.7624 



-67 
.7624 



It here appears that the extremes of the annual fluctuation are the 
maximum 29.7902 on the day of the autumnal equinox, with the mini- 
mum 29.6612 on May 10, while a subordinate wave occurs in the begin- 
ning of the decline from the September maximum, reaching a minimum 
value of 29.7066 in the middle of November, with a subsequent rise to 
29.7877 on the 8th of January. 

The most marked deviation between the monthly means of the com- 
puted normal values and the means which were the basis of comi^uta- 
tion, aside from those which are due to maxima or minima already ex- 
posed, is found in the months of March and April ; and this is due to a 
deviation from the regular progress occurring in the end of March, 
whi^h will be noticed hereafter in its proper place. 

It is well known that the accidental barometric oscillations have a 
greater range in the winter than in the summer months, and for the 
purpose of obtaining a quantitative determination of the normal degree 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



4G5 



of tliis atmospheric disturbance in every part of the year, as well as a 
more accurate account of the annual fluctuation of pressure, the daily 
means of the barometer for the twenty -five years were next arranged 
under each day of the year in two columns, one column containing 
those means which exceed the normal value for the particular day in 
question, derived from Table I, the other column containing the means 
for like-named days in the remaining years, all falling below the com- 
puted normal value. Each column having been added, the difference 
between its sum and the product of the normal value by the number of 
means in that column was found. Then if d and d' represent these differ- 
ences, jS" the normal value, and n the number of means in both columns 

taken together, (twenty -five, except when an omission occurred,) '"*" 
is the mean of ths departures of the daily means from tJie normal value for 

that day of the year, and N-f -^iL. equal to th of the sum of the two 

n n 

columns, is the mean pressure for the same day. The mean pressures for 

every day of the year, thus deduced, are as follows : 

Table II. 

Atmospheric presfiure for every day in the year — directly from ohsei-raiions. 



Day of the month. 



800 


754 


777 


756 


811 


690 


751 


713 


812 


828 


802 


814 


800 


841 


855 


769 


815 


656 


811 


731 


752 


831 


778 


777 


781 


823 


784 


802 


710 


676 


656 


625 


765 


695 


864 


658 


782 


678 


72B 


658 


711 


696 


776 


764 


828 


677 


840 


646 


769 


694 


738 


697 


676 


702 


743 


728 


716 


753 


772 




820 





707 
640 
670 
609 
769; 
7361 
725 
677 
676 
651 
727 
712 
739 
776 
757 
659 
608 
684 
724 
690 
597 
674 
611 
618 
655 
612 
582 
628 
651 
649 
613 



Sums 24. 018 J;J; ^32 |20. 836 

Meaus .7748 ".7280! .6718 



655 
657 
719 
729 
638 
623 
692 
771 
812 
738 
680 
679 
690 
683 
672 
701 
655 
719 
696 
648 
606 
635 
635 
650 
086 
674 
706 
707 
694 
654 



651 
638 

657 
605 
6501 
616 
599, 
603 
576 
618 
71l| 
713i 

715; 

700: 
703; 
681 
704 

7151 



623 

674 
676; 
639 
631 
635 
617 
677 
692 
748 



743 
720 
695 
651 
600 
684 
658 
645 
662 
663 
003 
629 
677 
095 
664 
675 
725 
675 
649 
673 
702 
696 
709 
724 
712 
700 
089 
644 
673 
635 



20. 504 20. 459 20. 396 
.6835 .6600 .6799 



704 
720 
684 
676 
723 
742 
702 
692 
698 
702 
689 
688 
712 
730 
705 
688 
677 
685 
672 
641 
619 
678 
718 
740 
735 
683 
693 
714 
669 
693 
731 



720 
711 
717 
705 
690 
704 
715 
700 
673 
666 
704 
733 
727 
741 
713 
750 
750 
700 
728 
752 
757 

7:.3 

751 
751 
738 
773 
771 
753 
681 
700 
766 



750 
744 
793 
779 
784 
807 
845 
821 
849 
817 
776 
748 
781 
872 
845 
808 
789 
748 
741 
740 
796 
875 
881 
829 
759 
735 
75' 
790 
820 
804 



784 
712 
708 
693 
748: 
773, 
786 
751 
775 
764 
729 
7201 
731 
724! 
704' 
706 
766, 
729 
709 
707 
773 
.772 
763 
840 
871 
827 
711 
708 
771 
773 
720 



753 
749| 
733j 
758 
754^ 
7891 
770 
717 
679 
723 
729 
703 
686 
768 
755! 
733 
702 
651 
675 
685 
699 
715 
660 
669 
736 
621 
718 
080 
576 
574 



742 
729 
732 
700 
731 
763 
674 
790 
726 
750 
728 
758 
799 
743 
830 
773 
782 
802 
830 
755 
842 
739 
708 
776 
807 
747 
7.32 
761 
701 
813 
827 



21. 603 22. 528 23. 889 2.3. 248 21. 160 2.3. 560 
.697o' .7267! .7963 .7499 .7053, .7600 



As might be expected in so short a series as twenty-five years, the 
values embraced in this table are far from escaping the effect of acci- 
S. Mis. 31 30 



466 



DISCUSSION OF BAEOMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



dental variations, but we may attempt to eliminate that effect by com- 
bining them in groups. The following are the mean values of atmos- 
pheric pressure in ten-thousandths of an inch, obtained directly from 
Table 11, for thirty-six equal periods of 10.15 days each, beginning with 
January and embracing the entire year. (The integral part, 29 inches, 
is omitted as before :) 

Table III. 



1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
ir). 
16. 
17. 
18. 



8030 


19 


7584 


20 


7606 


21 


7600 


22 


7247 


23 


6964 


24 


6931 


25 


6917 


26 


6276 


27 


7060 


28 


6736 


29 


6685 


30 


6385 


31 


6798 


32 


6714 


33 


6711 


34 


6774 


35 


6886 


36 



7018 

6814 

7080 

6992 

7411 

7411 

7996 

7862 

8038 

7456 

7273 

7748 

7394 

7082 

6692 

7171 

7872 

7768 

In this series few oscillations appear beyond the two principal ones 
already noted. Beginning with the yearly minimum on May 10th, 
which falls in the thirteenth period, the rise to the September maximum, 
in the twenty-seventh, appears to be broken by a depression culminating 
in the twentieth period (about July 17), and in like manner the fall 
thence to the November minimum is checked by a subordinate maximum 
in the end of October, the thirtieth period. The only remaining note- 
worthy departure from the normal value is more marked than either of 
the preceding, and consists of a depression in the ninth period — the ten 
days following the vernal equinox — which appears to amount to a true 
equinoctial storm. Thus each of the two equinoxes is a definite baro- 
metric epoch, though they are marked by opi^osite characteristics. 

A tendency is apparent in one or both of the periods adjacent to a 
maximum or minimum to depart from the normal values in an opposite 
direction, so that the gradual approach to the critical value, on the part 
of the more distant i^eriods, appears to culminate ten or fifteen days 
from the true epoch, and a double maximum or minimum is the result. 
Examples may be noticed in the fourteenth i^eriod, immediately follow- 
ing the yearly minimum in May, while a double maximum occurs in 
September ; also, in the case of minor oscillations, the minima in March 
and July are each followed by a single jieriod of high barometer, and 
the January maximum is both j^receded and followed by single periods 
slightly lower than those adjacent to them. The phenomenc.i appears 
suspicious, as though due to accidental variations, yet some ground for 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OCSERVATIOXS. 



467 



a contrary opinion may be derived by examining the deviation of each 
l^eriod from the normal pressure. 

As will presently be shown, the i^robable error of one of the values in 
Table III is a variable quantity, having for its mean value 0.0095, while 
at its maximum it is about 0.0122 and at its minimum 0.0058. If now 
we compute a value for the middle day of each period from the periodic 
function, in the same way as Table I, but to four places (which may be 
regarded as representing accurately enough for the present purpose the 
normal value of pressure for the period, aside from the irregularities now 
under discussion), these normal values, subtracted from the successive 
values of Tables III, will leave the following residuals : 



1 + .0158 I 19 + 

2 —.0260 20 — 

3 —.0096 21 + 

4 +.0131 22 — 

5 +.0012 23 + 

6 —.0081 24 — 

7 4- .0018 25 + 

8 + .0081 26 — 

9 — .0510 I 27 + 

10 + .0317 ' 28 — 

11 + .0U41 I 29 — 

12 

13 

14 + .0178 I 32 

15 + .0043 : 33 — 

16 — .0038 I 34 — 

17 — .0055 35 + 

18 — .0015 36 — 



+ .0040 i 30 + 

— .0229 I 31 + 

+ 



. 00(;5 

. 0183 
. 0020 
. 0180 
. 0072 
. 0104 
.0255 
. 0015 
.0048 
. 0318 
. 0291 
. 0421 
. 0253 
. 0016 
. 0148 
. 01.59 
. 0310 
. 0002 



It here appears that the periods following the March and May minima 
and the January maximum deviate from the normal value in the oppo- 
site direction from the adjacent critical value, and to an amount 
exceeding the estimated probable error for the time of year, while the 
periods preceding the January and September maxima appear to be 
normal, the double maximum in these cases being j)roduced by a rela- 
tively high value of the period in which the anticipatory subordinate 
maximum occurs, rather than by a relatively low value in the period 
separating it from the true maximum. The effect of the disturbance in 
March- April appears to be confined to the ninth and tenth periods, and 
it produces that divergence of the computed and observed means for the 
two months, previously noticed in connection with Table I. 

The division of the year into thirty-six equal i^eriods, in Table III, 
gives the opportunity for a recomputation of Bessell's periodic function. 
The following are the coefficients of ten terms, based upon the thirty-six 
periodic means. The first five or six terms may be regarded as replac- 
ing by more accurate values the formula previously derived, and from 
which Table I was computed ; the concluding terms are, perhaps, chietiy 



468 DISCUSSION OF BAROMETKIC OBSEEVATIONS. 

interesting as showing the impracticability of obtaining actual conver- 
gence from a series of observations no longer than the present : 

Bo = 29.7194 

Bi= 0.0480 B4 = .0128 B, = .0135 

B2= .0210 B5 = .0028 Bb = .0059 

B3 = .0271 Be = .0090 Bg = .0115 

The corresponding angles are as follows : 

/9i = 141o 3' /54= 89° 56' /J^ = 139° 0' 

/92= 7 40 • /?5= 5 8 /S8 = 18G 12 

/33= 45 50 /5g = 104 26 ySg = 242 30. 

Mr. E. L. De Forest, in the Analyst for Jnly, 1877, refers to a previons 
paper of his own in which he has pointed out a simple test of the accu- 
racy of the adjustment of a series of values subject to accidental variation. 
The test quoted is in substance as follows : If the original (observed) 
values be subtracted from the adjusted values, term by term, the result 
is the series of residual errors. If the terms of this series be pointed 
off into groups, by inserting a point of division at every change of sign, 
the most i)robable number of terms occurring in groups of three or more 
is ^ K ± .533 -/N ; where N denotes the whole number of terms of the 
series, and the expression following the sign ± is the probable error. 
If the number of terms occurring in such grouj)S falls short of ^ N by 
more than the probable error, the inference is that the inequalities of the 
series have not been smoothed out enough ; but if it exceed J N by more 
than the probable error, the series has been smoothed too much. From 
the nature of the periodic function, the adjustment effected by it would 
be expected to err (if at all) in the latter of these two directions. In 
fact, when a series of residuals is formed by subtracting the terms of 
Table II successively from the corresponding terms of Table I, the 
number of terms or signs occurring in groups of three or more exceeds 
half the whole number of terms by 79, while the probable error, .533 y/SQii, 
is only 10.3. Though a closer approximation to a perfect adjustment 
might probably be derived by the use of the more exact coefficients just 
obtained, it seems preferable, for the pur^^oses of comparison, to use a 
different process of adjustment, and hence the method of successive 
means has been employed. The arithmetical means between each term 
of the series of Table II and the next succeeding term form the first 
order of means, the second is derived in the same way from the first, 
and so on until the tenth order of means is obtained, which constitutes 
Table IV. 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 

Table IV. 

Computed normal pressure for every day in the year. 
[Tenth order of means from Table U.] 



469 



Day of the month. 















t*l 


bC 


3 


3 
< 


683 


714 


692 


713+ 


697 


710 


702+ 


706 


708 


703+ 


711 


702 


708+ 


699 


703 


694 


699 


690 + 


697 


693 


697+ 


703 


701 


715 


705 


725 


706 


731 


702 


735 


694 


740 


684 


745 


674 


746+ 


664+ 


746+ 


659 


74& 


603 + 


745+ 


679+ 


745 + 


699 


746+ 


712 


749 


713 


753 


707 


754 


700 


749 


690 


738 


697 


729 


702 + 


728+ 


709 


737 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18, 
19 
20. 
21 
22. 
23' 
24 
25 
26 
27. 
28 ! 
29. 
30. 
31. 



799+ 

795 

791 

791 

796 

805 

813 

816 

811 

799 

786 

776 

765 

751 

740 

742 

757 

770+ 

770 

762+ 

762 + 

775 

788+ 

788 

772 

748 

732+ 

732 

744 

758 

765 



760 

748+ 

745 

758 

778+ 

791 + 

785 

766 

753 

756+ 

772 

784 

777 

751 

716 

687+ 

673 

671 

675 

684+ 

694 

697 

693 

688 

689 

697 

708 

715 

711 



697 
681 
675 

685 

701 

711 

708 

696 + 

689 

691 

704 

720 + 



656 
671 
681 

682 

678 

684 

706 

731 

741 + 

732 

713 

695+ 



732+ 686+ 

731 + ' 683 

715 I 683 

693 I 684 

677+' 685 

674 4-! 682 



658 

653 

651 

647 

638 

624 

612 

608+ 

619 

642 

670+ 

692+ 

702 



719 

710 

695 

680+ 

671 

666 

662 + 

659+ 

658 

658 

658 

661 

667 



703 I 674 
700 I 680 
697+ 684 



674 

667 

654 

641 

633 

628 

624 

620 

619 + 

624 + 

632 

638 

645 



672 

656 

643 

638 + 

644 

656+ 

670 + 

683 

690 

689 

681 

669 



694 

686 

671 

655 

645 

644 

649 

651 

647 

641+ 

642 

652 

672 

696 

714 



684 

681 

678+ 

681 

689+ 

699 

706 

708+ 

705 

695 

682 

672 

668+ 

674 



750 
762 
773 

784 

796 

809 

820 

825 

820 

807+ 

795+ 

793 

803 + 

816 

818 + 

807 

787 

770 

766 

778+ 

803 

824+ 

829+: 

814 

790 

774 + 1 

774 

784 

790 

784 



765 

742+ 

728+ 

729 

741 

755 

764 

765 

760+ 

751+ 

741 

732 

725 

721 

720+ 

724 

727 

728+ 

730 

738 

752+ 

772+ 

794 

810 

810+ 

793 

769 

753 

748 

748 

747+ 



746 

745+ 

749 

754 

759 

757+ 

747 

732 

719 

714 

713 

716+ 

723 

731 

731 

72« 

703 

688+ 

684 

685 

689 

689 

687 

684+ 

682 

677+ 

667 

6.52 

645 

655 



679 

704 

718 

723 

723 

720 

716 

716 + 

723+ 

734 + 

747 

759 

770 

779+ 

786 

790 

793 

796+ 

797 

791 

780 

768 

761 

761 

763 

761 

759+ 

765 

778 

792 

800 



On applying the test of Mr. De Forest to this series the total number 
of signs occuring in groups of three or more is found to be less than half 
the whole number of terms by 18 — a difference much less than that of 
Table I, though nearly double the probable difference of a iierfect 
adjustment. 

In resiject to the treatment of the 29th of February, this table is less 
accurate than the others ; for the pressure for that date, as derived from 
Table II, should in strictness have been allowed only one-fourth of the 
weight of the other values ; but as such a discrimination could not con- 
veniently be made in the computation, the 29th was treated precisely 
like the adjacent dates. In all the other tables due allowance is made 
for the peculiarity of that date. 

The sign + appended to numbers in Table IV indicates a fraction be- 
tween -^Q^- and ^0%. Smaller fractions are disregarded, and for larger ones 
the third figure is increased by 1. 



MEAN DEPARTURE FROM NORMAL VALUE, AND PROBABLE ERROR. 

In describing the method of deriving the numbers which constitute 
Table II it was shown that for each day of the year, along with the 
mean pressure, another number was deduced, which was called " the 



470 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETEIC OBSERVATIONS. 



mean of the departures of the daily means from the normal value." The 
series of the mean departures thus obtained is as follows, in thousands 
of an inch of mercury : 

Table V. 
Means of the Departures of Daily Means from Normal Value. 



Day of tlie month. 



3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 



Sums 

Means 



235 
232 



214 
174 
190 
225 
234 
291 



342 
184 
183 
239 
240 
233 
192 
227 
223 
255 
171 
24C 
239 
229 
255 
240 
242 
197 
]86 
190 
270 
178 



6.978 
2251 



219 
253 
268 
296 
257 
195 
236 
249 
260 
197 
209 
229 
143 
179 
201 
265 
203 
237 
190 
190 
223 
197 
234 
251 
296 
183 
213 
248 
192 



214 
251 
180 
187 
205 
234 
173 
223 
208 
195 
197 
167 
2U7 
161 
166 
251 
224 
167 
234 
157 
260 
211 
221 
249 
247 
203 
166 
209 
226 
233 
250 



s^«-??^.476 
\ii. 5/9 

.2278 .2089 



294 
224 
178 
231 
222 
202 
175 
169 
171 
159 
135 
172 
190 
230 
106 
226 
197 
163 
185 
162 
177 
152 
176 
186 
177 
190 
136 
161 
172 
180 



5.558 
1853 



171 
179 
191 
151 
133 
142 
l.-)2 
179 
145 
131 
137 
151 
150 
188 
185 
154 
132 
135 
148 
156 
156 
159 
112 
134 
116 
120 
164 
175 
120 
127 
173 



168 
137 
129 
133 
150 
124 
146 
150 
173 
144 
169 
168 
133 
131 
135 
120 
117 
112 
108 
123 
106 
107 
109 
099 
121 
113 
107 
114 
122 
126 



4.672 3.894 
1507 1.1298 



110 
111 
093 
126 
094 
101 
102 
106 
143 
105 
094 
095 
104 
112 
100 
117 
107 
122 
121 
110 
125 
148 
111 
084 
093 
099 
092 
068 
096 
089 
110 



3.288 
1061 



118 
162 
118 
122 
138 
134 
105 
127 
152 
131 
103 
081 
087 
075 
084 
115 
115 
114 
112 
131 
131 
127 
130 
100 
135 
114 
135 
125 
131 
135 
126 



3.713 
1198 



155 
140 
124 
139 
112 
106 
134 
173 
131 
126 
127 
159 
170 
162 
118 
156 
137 
152 
170 
113 
133 
139 
173 
169 
130 
115 
154 
123 
165 
190 



4.295 
1432 



163 
198 
211 
161 
166 
171 
186 
163 
167 
126 
173 
175 
181 
203 
211 
140 
162 
172 
196 
172 
161 
239 
225 
249 
207 
227 
247 
212 
246 
179 



178 
186 
189 
219 
196 
239 
281 
237 
155 
184 
180 
206 
215 
179 
236 
303 
281 
235 
218 
224 
205 
235 
243 
203 
237 
226 
171 
171 
229 
283 



5.914 
1908 



6.544 
. 2181 



235 
216 
232 
266 
199 
231 
256 
216 
271 
239 
145 
224 
250 
218 
215 
190 
242 
257 
244 
237 
270 
251 
238 
233 
195 
170 
213 
225 
215 



7.040 
. 2271 



An inspection of this table shows a marked annual variation. To 
exhibit its law, the monthly means at the foot of the table were first 
corrected for the unequal length of the months, and then used to com- 
pute coefficients for Bessel's periodic function. The resulting formula 
is the following" : 

D =0.1775+. 0607 sin (<?+76o.l) + .0094 sin (2^+218o.O) 
+ .0036 sin (3^+275o.6) + .0016 sin (4^+259o.6.) 

The coefficients of the five terms here given exhibit a more satisfac- 
tory convergence than any five successive terms in the formula for the 
annual fluctuation of pressure, and indicate that the function in ques- 
tion — the amount of atmosi)heric disturbance — is entitled to considera- 
tion as a meteorological element governed by a simj)le law of change. 
By differentiating the formula the function is found to have two nearly 
equal maxima on December 11 and February 4, of which the latter is 
the higher, their respective values being 0.2261 and 0.2275. Between 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 471 

these points the curve maintains a nearly uniform height, having its 
minimum on January 1, when the vahie is 0.2254:. The minimum for 
the year is 0.1089 on July 23. 

Besides its significance as an independent meteorological element, the 
function may also be regarded in its relation to the probable error of 
the numbers composing Tables II, III, and IV. Eeferring to the method 
by which the mean departures were computed it will be seen that as the 
number of daily means in excess of normal value varies but little from 
the number in defect, the inaccuracy of the normal value of i)ressure as 
derived from Table I must be too slight to affect appreciably the result- 
ing formula for mean departure; hence this mean departure may be 
regarded as identical with the mean of the errors of single daily means, 
regarded as measurements of the true normal pressure. The " mean 
error" will then be found by multiplying the mean departure by the 
constant 1.2533, or the probable error by multiplying it by 0.8453. Ap- 
plying the latter factor to the extreme and mean values of the function 
it appears that the probable error of a single daily mean is ±0.1923 on 
February 4, ± 0.09205 on July 23, and has a mean value of ± 0.1500. If 
no daily means had been omitted in the records each of the numbers in 
Table II would have been derived from twenty-five daily means, and its 
]irobable error would have been one-fifth that of the daily mean. But 
in tact 184 of the 9,131 daily means are wanting, so that the average 
number of means in a column is 24.496. Hence the factor by which the 

X>robable error of a dailj^ mean is to be multiplied is— 7—=^ or 0.202. 

v24.496 

The products, .0388, .0183, and .0303, are the extreme and mean values 
of the probable error of the numbers in Table II. Each of the numbers 
in Table III is the mean of 10.15 numbers of Table II, hence the prob- 
able errors of the values in Table III are: Maximum, .0122; minimum, 
.00o8 ; mean, .00951. 

Finally, Table IV is derived from Table II by taking the tenth order 
of means. Now, if from the series of terms Ti, T2, T3, etc., m successive 
orders of means be derived {m being an even number), the value of 
that term in the mth. order which corresponds to Tn is : 

IW +mT ,)n{m-l)rj^ , 

+'''^ -^ (»-)-iMi-l) +-•- (n + *?n) p 

the coetficients being those of the mth. power of a binomial. 

Hence, supposing the probable error of each term of the original 
series to be r, the probable error E of a term of the mth order will be : 

E=|,.|l+»'-+^(|=l)V....+,„Hlp- 
If 10 be put for m in this formula, we have 

E=0.4198r. 



472 



DISCUSSION OF BAKOMETEIC OBSERVATION.S. 



Hence the probable errors of the values in Table IV are the foUowing: 
maximum, February 4, 0.01G3; minimum, July 23, .0078; mean, .01272. 

It is to be observed that in all the above determinations of probable 
error, the maximum and minimum values of the error, being derived 
from Bessel's function, are probably somewhat incorrect by not depart- 
ing widely enough from the mean value, but the mean value itself is not 
liable to such an error. 

The probable error of the mean annual pressure, 29.7194, is i 0.00150 j 
that of the mean of a single year is ± 0.00785. 

BAROMETRIC RANGE. 

Of the readings of the barometer at each of the regular tri-daily obser- 
vations during a month, corrected for temperature, the highest and lowest 
values are noted in the register at the end of the month, and the difl'er- 
ence between them is recorded as the barometric range ior the month. 
The means of these ranges for like-named months in the twenty-five years 
are the following: January, 1.255; February, 1.301 ; March, 1.186; April, 
1.012; May, 0.875; June, 0.727; July, 0.G15; August, 0.655; September, 
0.846; October, 1.042; I^ovember, 1.221; December, 1.427. 

It will be noticed that the annual fluctuation of baroraetic range 
copies closely that of the mean departure of the daily mean. The mini- 
mum in July, the double maximum in December and February, with 
the intervening value for January, which, though lower than that of 
either of the adjacent months, is higher than that of any of the remain- 
ing nine ; all these peculiarities are common to the two functions. They 
differ, however, in the relative height of the two maxima, the December 
maximum being in this case higher than that in February. 

SECULAR VARIATIONS OF ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE AND DISTURBANCE. 

Among the variations of meteorological elements snj)posed to have a 
period of more than a year, two are embraced within the subject of the 
present discussion, viz, that of atmospheric pressure, and that of atmos- 
pheric disturbance, expressed by barometric range. 

Table VI. 

Variation of fhe annual means of pressure. 



Tear. 


as 


<3 


u 


Remarks. 


Tear. 


p. 


S a 


ii 

t/2 fl 


Remarks. 


1854 


29. 734 




19.2 




1867 


29. 706 


29. 719 


8.0 


S. s. min. 




l£-55 


.741 


'29.'727' 


6.9 




1868 


.744 


.720 


40.2 






1856 


.695 


.720 


4.2 


Bar. min.; s. 3. ruin. 


1869 


.687 


.703 


84.1 






1857 


.749 


.733 


21.6 




1870 


.694 


.696 


139.6 


Bar. min.; s. s. 


max. 


1858 


.741 


.748 


50.9 


Bar. max. 


1871 


.708 


.702 


109.6 






1859 


.702 


.745 


96.4 




1872 


.697 


.705 


101.7 






1800 


.717 


.730 


98.0 


S. s. max. 


1873 


.718 


.723 


66.3 






1S61 


. 723 


.721 


77.4 




1874 


.760 


.743 


44.6 


Bar. max. 




18«2 


.7:;i 


.720 


59. 4 




1875 


.735 


.737 


17.1 






1803 


.740 


.715 


44.4 




3876 


.720 


.728 


11.3 






1864 


.658 


.698 


47.1 


Bar. min. 


1877 


.737 


.718 


12.3 






1865 


.734 


.712 


32.5 




1878 


.678 




3.4 






1866 


.720 


.720 


17.5 


(Bar. max.) 















DISCUSSION OF BAEOMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



473 



5b 






JESS 



JB60 



JB65 



111 Table VI the first column contains 
the names of the several years, from 1854 
=^ to 1878, inclusive; the second column shows 
the annual means of pressure, taken direct- 
ly from the register. In order to eliminate 
minor and irregular variations, the second 
order of means of this series is taken, ana 
this constitutes the third column. The re- 
maining column contains Wolf's sun-spot 
numbers, as given by Professor Loomis. 
{Am. Journal of Science and Art^ April, 
1873, p. 247.) As the numbers are there 
given only through 1871, Professor Loomis 
has kindly furnished me with those for the 
subsequent years. The table indicates a 
fluctuation of annual i^ressure, having a 
range considerably in excess of the i)rob- 
able error of a yearly mean. The years 
1856, 1864, and 1870 are those of minimum 
pressure, while maxima fall on the years 
1858, 1866, and 1874. Hence the period 
appears to consist of about eight years, 
with no manifest relation to that of the 
sun-spots. (See adjoining diagram.) 

Table VII shows the fluctuation of baro- 
metric annual range. As the range of press- 
ure attains its greatest extent each year du- 
ring the winter months, the annual rangft 
here considered is the difllerence between 
the highest corrected reading of the baro- 
meter in any one winter and the lowest 
reading for the same winter; i. e., the year 
in which each range is taken begins July 
1 and ends June 30. The second column 
of the table contains the names of the 
months in which these highest and lowest readings occurred, the month 
of the maximum being named first in each case. The two columns fol- 
lowing contain the extreme values of pressure, and the next column 
(the fifth) contains the range or difference between them. The periodic 
fluctuation of the numbers in this column is so marked as to admit of 
taking four orders of means, by which the accidental variations are elim- 
inated. The result of this process constitutes the sixth column. The 
seventh and last column contains the series of sun-spot numbers ; but 
as the year to which any sun-spot number, as given by Wolf, belongs 
has its beginning and end at January 0, instead of July 0, the sun-spot 
numbers for this column are obtained by taking the first order of means 



JS70 



1J2Z5 



474 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



of Wolf's series (that is, the mean of Wolf's numbers for 1836 and 1837 
is taken as the sun-spot luimber for the year 1836-'37, the mean of the 
given numbers for 1837 and 1838 as the number for 1837-'38, etc.). In 
this comparison the observations for the years 1836 to 1853, hitherto 
omitted from this discussion, are included ; for though in respect to the 
absolute values of pressure these observations are not comparable with 
the later ones, they may be considered as fairly comparable as far as 
range is concerned, though less accurate. 

Table VII. 
Variation of the Armual Barometric Range. 



Tear. 


Months of 
extremes. 


a 
g 

c3 

B 
>^ 

a 
o 


6 

1 
'3 
S 

ci 
o 


a 


a 

2 

a 

a 

o 


1- 
o 

a 

a 

PI 
3 


1836-'37 




30.38 
30.32 
30.69 
30.40 
30. 42 
30.41 
30.48 
30.58 
30.34 
30.54 
30.48 
30.42 
30.45 

I 30.50 

30. 58 
30. 423 
30. 486 
30. 463 
30. 604 
30. 381 
30. 687 
30. 569 
30. 446 

30. 427 
30. 431 
30.549 
30. 718 
30. 419 
30. 340 
30. 672 
30. 584 
30. 526 
30. 363 
30. 380 

30. 428 
30. 323 
30. 387 
30. 453 
30. 372 
30. 629 
30. 320 
30. 374 
30. 458 


28.50 
28.61 
29.00 
28.40 
28.77 
28.75 
28.80 
28.61 
28.60 
28.90 
28.40 
28.88 
29.10 

28.90 

28.64 
28. 605 
28. 546 
28. 799 
28. 695 
28. 640 
28. 773 
28. 846 
28. 817 
28. 948 
28. 787 
28. 779 
28. 970 
28. 919 
28. 703 
28. 637 
28. 543 
28. 755 
28. 081 
28. 820 

28. 869 

29. 036 
28. 645 
28. 509 
28. 807 
28. 621 
28. 824 
28. 764 
28. 641 


1.88 
1.71 
1.69 
2.00 
1.65 
1.66 
1.68 
1.97 
1.74 
1.64 
2.08 
1.54 
1.35 

1.60 

1.94 

1 818 

1.830 

1.664 

1.969 

1.741 

1.914 

1.723 

1.629 

1.479 

1.644 

1.770 

1.748 

1.500 

1.637 

2. 035 

2.041 

1.771 

1. 682 

1.560 

1.559 

1.287 

1.742 

1.944 

1.565 

2.008 

1.496 

1.610 

1.817 


""i.''78'" 
1.79 
1.74 
1.70 
1.75 
1.80 
1.79 
1.79 
1.77 
1.64 
1.54 

1.63 

1.78 

1.83 

1.801 

1.796 

1.823 

1.835 

1.809 

1. 733 

1.634 

1.591 

1.640 

1.698 

1.670 

1.646 

1. 734 

1.887 

1.924 

1.819 

1.688 

1.586 

1.510 

1. 527 

1.656 

1.762 

1.777 

1.740 

1.677 


103.8 


1837 '38 




96.8 


1838-'39 




75.5 


1839 '40 




60.1 


1840 '41 




40.7 


1841 '42 




24.6 


1842-'43 




14.0 


1843 '44 


Apr.-Jan. 

Oct.-Dec. 

Dec.-Oct. 

Oct.-Mar. 

Oct.-Feb. 

Feb.-Apr. 
17 K < Fob. 
^«^-)Mar. 

Feb.-Dec. 

F'eb.-Apr. 

Dec. -Jan. 

Nov.-Dec. 

Jan. -Dec. 

Dec-Dec. 

Feb.-Dec. 

Jap.-Oct. 

Dec-Mar. 

Dec-Fob. 

Jan.-Feb. 

Jan.-Feb. 

Feb.-Apr. 

Dec.-Feb. 

Dec-Dec. 

Jan.-Apr. 

Feb.-Dec. 

Feb.-Apr. 

Oct.-Dec. 

Jan. -Jan. 

Jan.-Feb. 

Dec.-Feb. 

Jan. -Mar. 

Feb. -Nov. 

Dec. -Nov. 

Feb.-Feb. 

Dec. -Dec. 

Jan. -Mar. 

Feb.-Dec. 


*10. 8 


1844 '45 


23.0 


1845 '46 


40.0 


1846-'47 


63.2 


1847 '48 


89.9 


1848 '49 


t98.0 


1849 '50 


80.0 


1850 '51 


63.2 


1851 '52 


57.0 


1852 '53 


45.0 


1853 '54 


28.4 


1854-'55 


13.0 


1855 '56 


*5. 5 


1856-57 


12.9 


1857 '58 


36.2' 


1858 '59 


73. 6 


1859-'60 . 


t97. 5 


I860 '61 


88.0 


1861 '62 


68.4 


1862 63 


51.9 


1863 '64 


45.7 


1864 '65 . 


39.8 


1865-'66 . .. . 


25.0 


1866 '67 


*12. 7 


1867 '68 


24.1 


1868-69 


62.1 


1869 '70 


111.8 


1870-'71 

1871 '72 


tl24. 6 
105. 6 


1872 '73 


84.0 


1873-'74 


55.5 


1874-'75 


30.8 


1875-'76 


14.2 


1876 '77 


11.8 


1877-78 


7.9 













In this table a relation bet'ween the mean range and the sun-spot 
numbers is obvious at a glance, not a single maximum or minimum of 
the latter series failing to fall on the same year with an opposite phase 

"Years of miuimum suu-spots, and maximmn barometric range, 
t Years of maximum sun-siiots, and miuimum barometric range. 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS, 



475 



of the fluctuation of mean range. But there is an additional peculiarity 
of tliis fluctuation which appears to have nothing in common with that 
of the solar spots except equality of period. 

I'rom each year of minimum sun-spots and maximum range to the 
year of the opposite phases the progress is always uninterrupted, but 
the rise of mean range from the latter x^oint to its next maximum on the 
year of the sun-spot minimum is checked in every instance nearly mid- 
way, or when the sun-spot number is about 40, by a decline lasting in 
each of the four cases through two years, after which the increase of 
range is resumed. 

The highest corrected barometer-reading since 1853 is 30.G87 on Feb- 
ruary 12, 1857, and the lowest is 28.509 on i^ovember 18, 1873. Their 
difference, the range in twenty-five years, is 2,178 inches. 

Of the appended diagrams, the first (divided into five sections, and 
marked Parts 1 to 5, forming continuous curves for the year) shows the 
barometric i)ressure for each day of the year, as given numerically in 
Tables I, II, and IV. The full (or solid) line exhibits the daily values of 
pressure directly from observations (Table II), while the fine dotted 
curve shows the normal values computed from the periodic function 
(Table I), and the intermediate broken (or coarse dotted) curve is taken 
from the values given in Table IV. Vertical lines are inserted at inter- 
vals, having the middle of their length placed at the height of the 
annual mean (29.719), and showing by their extent upward and down- 
ward the probable error of Table II for the date. The i^robable error 
of Table IV is also indicated by corresponding marks upon the vertical 
lines. 



Probable eirors of Tables II and IV, for each month. 





Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


May. 


June. 


July. 


Aug. 


Sept. 


Oct. 


Nov. 


Dec. 


Tablen 


.038 
.016 


.0385 
.016 


.035 
.015 


.031 
.013 


.0255 
.011 


.022 
.009 


.018 
.0075 


.020 
.0085 


.024 
.012 


.032 
.0135 


.037 
.0155 


.038 


TablelV 


.010 







The concluding diagram exhibits graphically the connection between 
the fluctuations of barometric range and of sun-spot amount, as given 
in Table VII. 



476 



DISCUSSION OF BAEOMETKIC OBSEKVATIONS. 



DecSL 
Jan.'l 



JoilSO 
F«Ii.l 




DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



477 



JiTtiT l4 



MorZo 




478 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETEIC OBSERVATIONS. 





S 1 





s 




03 


« 






•J 

CO 



00 


□ 


CO 
JO 




03 


CO 




lray.37 




__^_^ 




\ 


















y[ajdo 


























Junel 








I 

S 

1 
\ 




'^ 














June 10 




-< 


5, 






















-^_____ 




Jun«3o 




_JZ_ 


== 


c 


1 
1 
















3Wi^TD 




^^ 






1 ^i____— 

> 






1 


1 






i2 


JilfySo 


• 


> 














- 




j 
J 

ft < 











f 

I 

I 
I 



N 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



479 




480 



DISCUSSION OF BAEOMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



Octas 




3}ec.3o 
Jiin.1. 



DISCUSSION OF BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS. 



481 



Scale of Annval Barometric liange. 




Scale of Svn'SpatHxarJters . 



S. Mis. 31 31 



AN ACCOUNT OF INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINAT- 
ING MATERIALS.* 



By Joseph Henry. 



It has been the policy of the Light-House Board siuce its first estab- 
lishment not only to adopt the latest improvemente which have been 
made in other countries, but also to add by original investigations to 
the sum of knowledge on aids to navigation. In accordance with this 
policy, the Board has endeavored to keep itself informed as to the prog- 
ress of the light-house systems of other countries, and in the erection 
of new towers and the supply of new apparatus to adojit those imi^rove- 
ments which have from actual experience been preferred 5 and, further- 
more, the committee on experiments have devoted a iiortion of ever}' 
year to investigations which might develop new facts tending to greater 
economy or efficiency in the various ai^pliances by which the dangers of 
na%dgation are diminished. 

At the commencement of the operations of the Light-House Board, in 
1852, sperm-oil was generally employed for the purpose of illumination. 
This was an excellent illuminant, but as its price continued to advance 
from year to year, it was thought proper to attempt the introduction of 
some other material. The first attempt of this kind was that of the in- 
troduction of colza-oil, which was generally used in the light-houses of 
Europe, and is extracted from the seed of a species of wild cabbage, 
known in this country as rape, and in France as colza. For this pur- 
pose a quantity of rape-seed was imported from France and distributed 
through the agricultural department of the Patent-Office to different 
parts of the country, with the hope that our farmers might be induced 
to attempt its cultivation. Although the climate of the country ap- 
peared favorable to its growth, and special instructions were prepared 
and distributed by the Light-House Board for its culture and the means 
of producing oil from it, yet the enterprise was not undertaken with 
any approximation to success, except in Wisconsin, where a manufactory 
of rai)e-seed oil was established by Col. C. S. Hamilton, formerly of the 

[*From the Report of the U. S. Light-House Board for 1875. The researches de- 
scribed in this memoir have a sufficient scientific vahie and popular interest to fully 
justify their reproduction here. — S. F. Baird.] 

483 



484 INVESTiaATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

United States Army. To this manufactory the Light-House Board gave 
special encouragement, and purchased at a liberal price all the oil that 
could be supplied; the quantity however which could be procured was 
but a small part of the illuminating material required for the annual 
consumption of the Light-House Establishment. 

The price of the sperm-oil still continuing to increase, the Board em- 
ploj'ed Prof. J. H. Alexander, a chemist of Baltimore, to make a series 
of investigations on different oils, to ascertain a method of detecting 
ad alterations in them, and to determine the relative economical value 
of different kinds of oil which might serve for use in light-houses. In 
his report Mr. Alexander recommended, as a means of detecting adul- 
terations in oil, a thermal test, which was based upon the amount of 
heat evolved by mixing a given quantity of the oil with sulphuric acid 
of a given specific gravity, and noting the rise of temperature as indi- 
cated by a standard thermometer in a unit of time. For using this 
method, it was pi^posed to ascertain by actual experiment the heat 
evolved by mixing pure oils with a given quantity of acid, and afterward 
oils adulterated with given quantities of lard or inferior oils. This in- 
genious suggestion was however never reduced to practice. The method 
was too refined; the difference of heat evolved was scarcely suificient 
to be noted unless great j)recautions were taken to prevent loss by ra- 
diation and conduction, and consequently it could not be employed by 
ordinary inspectors. In regard to lard-oil, ^Ir. Alexander failed to em- 
ploy the proper method of burning it, and consequently rated it very 
low on the scale of economical value as a light-house illuminant. 

In this stage of the liistory of the subject we are presenting, the chair- 
man of the committee on exi^eriments commenced himself to investigate 
the qualities of different kinds of oil, and was soon led to direct his at- 
tention to the comparative value of sperm and lard oils. The experi- 
ments made by Mr. Alexander were with small lamps, and the compari- 
son in this case, as will be shown, was much against the lard-oil. 

The first experiment of the new series consisted in charging two small 
conical lamps of the'capacity of about a half-pint, one with pure sperm- 
oil and the other with lard-oil. These lamps were of single-rope wi(;ks, 
each containing the same number *of strands; they were lighted at the 
same time, and the photometrical power ascertained by the method of 
shadows. At first the two were nearly equal in brilliancy, but after 
burning about three hours the flame of the lard had declined in photo- 
metric i)ower to about one-fifth of that of the flame of the sperm. The 
question then occurred as to the cause of this decline, and it was sug- 
gested that it might be due — first, to a greater specific gravity in the 
lard-oil, which would retard the ascent of it in the wick, after the level 
of the oil had been reduced by burning in the lamp ; or, second, to a 
want of a suflicient attraction between the oil and the wide to furnish 
the requisite sujiply as the oil descended in the lamp; or, third, it might 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 485 

be due in part to the imperfect liquidity of the oil, which would also 
militate against its use in mechanical lamps. 

The lard-oil was subjected to experiments in regard to each of .these 
points. It was found, by the usual method of weighing equal quantities 
of the two fluids, that the specific gravity of the lard was greater than 
that of the sperm ; and also by dipping two portions of the same wick 
into the two liquids, and noting the height to which each ascended in a 
given time, that the surface attraction of the sperm was greater than 
that of the lard, or, in other words, the ascensional power of sperm was 
much greater than that of lard at ordinary temperatures. This method 
was also employed in obtaining the relative surface attraction of various 
other liquids ; we say surface attraction instead of capillarity, because 
it was found in the course of these investigations that substances which 
had less capillarity — that is, less elevating power in a fine tube — had 
greater power in ascending in the meshes o^ a wick. 

The relative fluidity of the different oils was obtained by filling in 
succession a pear-shaped vessel, with a narrow neck, of about the ca- 
pacity of a pint, having a hole in the lowest part of the bottom of about 
a tenth of an inch in diameter. Such a vessel filled with any number 
of perfect liquids would be emptied in the same time, whatever their spe- 
cific gravity. As at any given horizon, inertia is directly i)roportional to 
gravity, tbe heavier the liquid the greater would be the ])ower required 
to move it, but the motive power would be in proportion to the pressure, 
or, iu other words, to the weight, and therefore all perfect liquids should 
issue from the same orifice with the same velocity. To test this propo- 
sition, eight fluid ounces of clean mercurj^, and then the same bulk of 
distilled water, were allowed to run out of the vessel above mentioned; 
the time observed was the same within the nearest second. It was found, 
in repeating this experiment with sperm and lard oils that the rapidity 
of the flow of the former exceeded considerably that of the latter; the 
ratio of time being 100 to 1G7. 

The results thus far in these investigations were apparently against 
the use of lard-oil; it was observed however in the experiments on the 
flow of the two oils on different occasions, that a variation in the time 
occurred, which could be attributed only to a variation in the tempera- 
ture at which the experiments were made. In relation to this point the 
effect of an increase of the temfierature above that of the atmosphere on 
the flowing of the two oils was observedv By this means the important 
fact w\as elicited that as the temperature was increased the liquidity of 
the lard increased in a more raj^id degree than that of the sperm, and 
that, at the temperature of about 250° P., the liquidity of the former 
exceeded that of the latter. 

A similar series of experiments was made in regard to the rapidity of 
ascent of the oil in the wick, and with a similar result. At about the 
temperature of that before meutidned, the ascensional power of the lard 



486 INVESTIGATIONS EELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

was greater than that of the sperm. These results were recognized as 
having an important bearing on the question of the application of lard- 
oil as a light-house iliuminant. It only required to be burned at a high 
temperature; and as this could be readily obtained in the case of larger 
lamps, there appeared to be no difliculty in its application. 

The previous trials had been with small lamps, with single solid wicks, 
instead of the Fresnel lamp, with hollow burners. After these prelim- 
inary experiments, two light-houses of the first order, at Cape Ann, 
Massachusetts, separated by a distance of only 900 feet, were selected 
as affording excellent facilities for trying, in actual burning, the correct- 
ness of the conclusions which had been arrived at. One of these light- 
houses was supplied with sperm and the other with lard oil, each lamp 
being so trimmed as to exhibit its greatest capacity. It was found by 
photometrical trial that the lamp supplied with lard exceeded in inten- 
sity of light that of the one furnished with sperm. The experiment was 
continued for several months, and the relative volume of the two ma- 
terials carefully observed. The quantity of sperm burned during the 
continuance of the experiment was to that of lard as 100 is to 104. 

The freezing temperature of lard-oil depends upon the temperature 
at which it was expelled by pressure from the animal tissues in which it 
was contained. It is higher however than the freezing temperature of 
sperm, on an average of from 3° to 4°, but this is a matter of no prac- 
tical objection to the substitution of lard for sperm, since the heat 
evolved from an Argand lamp is, in cases where the draught passes 
through the reservoir, sufficient to keep the lard liquid even during the 
lowest external temperature. Indeed, the small difference in tempera- 
ture in freezing of the two oils is a matter of little moment, in cases 
which frequently happen when the temperature of the atmosphere is 
below zero on the Fahrenheit scale. At such a temperature, both oils 
would become alike solid, unless some means were afforded for prevent- 
ing the freezing. 

The next step toward the introduction of lard-oil was the devising of 
a system by which it could be iusi^ected, and the Board assured, before 
it should be too late to remedy the evil, that the lard purchased was of 
a good quality. This was a matter of great importance, and involved 
no small degree of responsibility, since the contractor was entitled to 
his pay immediately after the acceptance of the oil, and while the quan- 
tity purchased amounted annually to nearly 100,000 gallons. 

The conclusion was arrived at that it was impossible, from any single 
test that could be applied to small sam^jles, to determine the quality of 
the oil as applicable to light-house purj)Oses ; and that in the present 
state of our knowledge as to its character the following tests are re- 
quired to fully insure in all cases the required quality of the article : 

1 . Specific gravity at 60^ F. 

2. Liquidity at different temi)eratui;es. 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 487 

3. Freedom from acids or alkalies. 

4. Resistance to freezing. 

5. Actual burning in fifth-order lamps for at least ten hours. 

6. Photometric power after burning one hour, and again after burning 
ten hours. 

7. The condition of the wick at the end of the burning. 

These tests are of very unequal value, and several of them might be 
dispensed with, were others reduced to an absolute standard determined 
by the actual experience of burning in the light-houses. 

The specific gravity of impure lard and of that which has been care- 
fully refined differ but little, and hence, unless the experiment be made 
by means of a delicate balance, the indications will be of comparatively 
little value. Still, as a given sample might contain some foreign sub- 
stance which is not usually mixed with this oil, the test with the hydrom- 
eter should not be omitted. 

In making this test, a cylindrical vessel containing the oil, of suffi- 
cient diameter to i>ermit the hydrometer to float freely without hinder- 
ance from the sides, should be immersed in a vessel containing several 
gallons of water, which, when once reduced to 60° by the addition of 
ice-cold water, can, on account of the great specific heat of water, be 
readily kept at that temperature by a slight addition of cold water from 
time to time, the whole being continually stirred. It is scarcely neces- 
sary to state that the vessel containing the oil must be so weighted at 
the bottom that it will stand erect in the cold bath in which the experi- 
ment is made. 

Liquidity at different temi)eratures is a test similar in character to 
that of specific gravity ; although the difference in degree of liquidity of 
different kinds of oil, such as sperm, whale, and lard, is very considera- 
ble, the difference between different samples of lard-oil is small. Still, 
this test, for a similar reason to that given for the specific gravity, should 
be applied. 

The test for free acids and alkilies is easily made, and should in no 
case be omitted. A portion is put into beaker-glasses, with a slip of Ut- 
mus-paper in one and a slip of tumeric paper in the other, and suffered 
to remain immersed perhaps twenty-four hours ; and at the end of that 
time, if one of these papers exhibits no redness and the other no brown- 
ness, the oil may be considered void of free acid and of alkali, both of 
which would lessen its value, the former tending to corrode the lami^ 
and the latter interfering with its burning quality. 

Resistance to freezing is an important test, but not as easily applied 
in the case of lard-oil as might at first be imagined. Lard-oil possesses 
the remarkable property of resisting the influence of a low temperature 
if suddenly applied, while it will freeze at a much higher temperature if 
the cold be continued for several hours. 

For example, if a small portion of lard-oil be placed in a test-tube and 
submitted to a rapid diminution of temperature by being plunged in a 



488 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

freezing-mixture, it will remain liquid at a temperature of 19° or 20°, 
whereas it will congeal at a temperature of 40° if suffered to remain at 
that temperature for several hours. 

The plan adopted for determining the freezing-point of different sam- 
ples of oil at one operation consisted in making a series of small open- 
ings, or windows, closed with glass, in the side of a cylindrical wooden 
tub about 2^ feet in diameter. Concentric within this tub was placed 
another cylindrical vessel, of smaller diameter, of zinc, filled with a 
freezing-mixture of salt and pounded ice. A series of small beaker- 
glasses, filled with the several sami^les of oil, were placed opposite the 
windows in the space between the two cylinders, each containing a ther- 
mometer which could be read through the window. The whole was 
then inclosed by a tightly-fitting cover, through which projected the 
handle of a crank by which the freezing-mixture could be stirred. The 
samples of the oil subjected to this cold-air bath gradually i)ass through 
the several stages of a diminution in limpidity and clearness to opacity 
and solidity, the time of each being noted. 

The most reliable test is that of actual burning in a lamp of the fifth 
order, and the measurement of the photometrical power. The objection 
to the application of this test to the oil of every barrel is the large quan- 
tity of oil required and the amount of labor involved in the x)roper exe- 
cution of the process. Thus, in testing 60,000 gallons contained in casks 
of forty gallons each, at least 500 gallons would be required. It is 
therefore evident that this test can only be applied to samples selected 
from a given lot, while the single barrels are proved to be of a similar 
character by the more simple tests. 

Another method of insuring that all the casks of a given lot contain 
oil of the same quality, consists in taking a small equal portion from 
each of several casks and mingling them together ; the quality of the 
compound being ascertained by the application of burning or the other 
tests. 

The determination of the photometrical i^ower is, in the present state 
of science, unless precaution is observed, a problem of some uncertainty. 
The difficulty is of two kinds, the first to find a photometer which shall 
give the ratio of the two lights, and, second, to find an invariable stand- 
ard to which oil of the proper quality may always be referred. These 
difiiculties, I think, can be sufficiently overcome for the practical pur- 
poses of the Light-House Board. The greater difficulty is that of ob- 
taining a standard of reference. For this a samijle of lard-oil manu- 
factured by Mr. Alden, of Boston, was at first employed, but this, itself, 
was- found to be variable, and hence we were obliged to adopt some 
other standard. The one which has been finally adopted is English 
sperm cand les, which burn with considerable uniformity at the rate of 
120 grains per hour, or two grains j)er minute. 

In regard to the investigation, the experiments were carried on under 
many difficulties. They were made at first in the engineer's office of the 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 489 

second light-house district iu Boston, with such appliances as coukl be 
procured at the moment, with the assistance of Mr. William Goodwin, 
the acting light-house engineer, who took much interest in the subject 
and rendered efficient service. 

In the erection of a new lamp-shoj) at the Staten Island depot, care 
was taken to make provision for a dark room in which the photometri- 
cal examinations could be made with more precision than had been ob- 
tained iu the temporary apartments previously used. This room extends 
the whole length of the building, is about 80 feet long by 12 wide 5^ the 
windows are closed by iron shutters to exclude the light; and the walls, 
floor, and all other parts are j)ainted black, after being sanded to remove 
any glare which might exist. 

In the first experiments on lard-oil the i)hotometrical process employed 
was that of Rumford, which consists in ascertaining the relative intensity 
of two lights from their distances from a screen ou which shadows of 
equal darkness are thrown by an intermediate body. In this case the 
relative intensities sought are indicated by the square of the distances 
in inches and parts of inches of each light from the screen on which the 
shadows are cast. But this method, which is used by the French man- 
ufacturers of apparatus, and is very simj)le in theory, does not admit of 
much accuracy. 

The arrangement, therefore, known as Bunsen's photometer, was in- 
troduced in its stead, and this, with some peculiar modifications, leaves 
nothing to be desired. This arrangement consists iu placing two lights 
at the extremity of a scale so divided into distances that the relative 
intensity of the two flames may be immediately read off in terms of 
candle power when a small intermediate movable screen is equally illu- 
minated on both sides. This screen is usually formed of a piece of white 
pasteboard of about four inches square, fixed perpendicularly at right 
angles to the length of the scale, in a sliding frame, hy which it can be 
brought nearer to or farther from one of the lights. In the center of 
this square is a circular hole of about half an inch in diameter, which 
is closed by a piece of thin paper, rendered translucent by a solution of 
spermaceti in oil of turpentine. This forms a spot which is darker than 
the other parts of the white screen, and is equally dark on both sur- 
faces when the screen is receiving an equal quantity of light from each 
flame; the screen is moved backward and forward until this effect is 
produced, and the index will then point on the graduated scale to the 
number of the relative power of one of the lights in the terms of the 
other. 

The screen may also be made of thin paper, the whole of which is 
rendered translucent except a round spot in the center, of half an inch 
in diameter. If a light is i)laced before the screen on one side, the 
whole of the greased part will appear dark, on account of part of the 
light going through the translucent portion. If, now, another light be 
placed on the opposite side, an equal portion will be transmitted through 
the pellucid part, and the two surfaces will appear of like intensity when 



490 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 



the two lights are equal, or when from their respective distances they 
throw equal amounts of light on the two faces of the screen. 

In order that both sides may be seen at the same moment without 
moving the head on one edge of the screen, two mirrors, making with 
each other an angle of 90°, are placed so that the screen itself will 
bisect the angle. 

For dividing the scale into parts related to each other as the square 
of their distances from a center, the following formula and table will 
furnish the means. Let a be the length of the scale, and x the distance 
from the candle end to the movable screen; then a — x is the distance 
between the lamp end and the end of the screen. Denote the degree of 
illuminination on the candle and lamj) sides of the screen by L and L' 
respectively. Let the intensity of the candle end equal one candle, 
while that of the lamp is n candles. Then, since the illumination of the 
screen varies directly as the intensity and inversely as tbe square of the 
distance, we have the following jiroportion : 



L:L 



„ 1 

a 



x= 



1+V 



n 



(a—xfi aiid when L=L' we have {a—xf =nx^ whence 
For convenience of using this formula it is best to change 



its form into x=a 



Vn-1 
n-1 



The following table has been computed by calling the length of the 
scale 100 and assigning successive integral values to w, from 1 to 100 
The column A shows the value of x for each assumed value of n : 



Number 




Number 




Number 




Number 




of can- 


A 


of can- 


A 


of cau- 


A 


of can- 


A 


dles. 




dles. 




dles. 




dles. 




1 


50.00 


26 


16.40 


51 


12.28 


76 


10.29 


2 


41.42 


27 


16.14 


52 


12.18 


77 


10.23 


3 


36.60 


28 


15.89 


53 


12.08 


78 


10.17 


4 


33.33 


29 


15.66 


54 


11.98 


79 


10.11 


5 


30.90 


30 


15.44 


55 


n.88 


80 


10.05 


6 


28.99 


31 


15.23 


56 


11.79 


81 


10.00 


7 


27.43 


32 


15.02 


57 


11.70 


82 


9.94 


8 


26. 12 


33 


14.89 


58 


11.61 


83 


9.89 


9 


25.00 


34 


14. 64 


59 


11.52 


84 


9.84 


10 


24.03 


35 


14. 46 


60 


11.43 


85 


9.79 


11 


23. 17 


36 


14.29 


61 


1L35 


86 


9.73 


12 


22.40 


37 


14. 12 


62 


11.27 


87 


9.68 


13 


2L71 


38 


13.96 


63 


11.19 


88 


9.63 


14 


21.08 


39 


13.80 


64 


11.11 


89 


9.58 


15 


20. 52 


40 


13.65 


65 


11.04 


90 


9.54 


16 


20.00 


41 


13.51 


66 


10.96 


91 


9.49 


17 


19.52 


42 


13.37 


67 


10.89 


92 


9.44 


18 


19.07 


43 


13. 23 


68 


10.82 


93 


9.40 


19 


18. 66 


44 


13.10 


69 


10.75 


94 


9.35 


20 


18.27 


45 


12.97 


70 


10.68 


95 


9.31 


21 


17.91 


46 


12. 85 


71 


10.61 


96 


9.26 


22 


17.58 


47 


12.73 


72 


10.54 


97 


9.22 


23 


17.25 


48 


12.61 


73 


10.48 


98 


9.17 


24 


16.95 


49 


12. 50 


74 


10.41 


99 


9.13 


25 


16.67 


50 

1 


12. 39 


75 


10.35 


100 


9.09 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 491 

The staudard adopted with which to compare all other lights is, as 
we have said, that of the London sperm caudle, which, under or<liuary 
conditions, burns 120 grains of sperm per hour. If it burns more or 
less than this amount during the trial, a correction of a i^roportional 
amount is made in the results. 

This standard however is too small for determining the i^ower of 
large lamjjs, and for this purpose an intermediate standard is provision- 
ally adopted. For examjile, in determining the power of a lamp of the 
first order, the power of a lamp of the fourth order is first obtained, and 
this is used as a comi^arison with the larger lamp. 

In the case of the arrangement at the Staten Island depot, for photo- 
metrical measurements, three scales are employed, diverging from a 
center at which the lamp to be measured is temporarily placed; at the 
farther end of each scale is placed a sperm candle, to serve as the stand- 
ard of comparison. These scales are of different lengths, one being 
100 inches in length, another 150 inches, and the third 200 inches; be- 
sides these, one of the scales is occasionally replaced by one of 700 
inches in length, which is put up in sections. 

As the semi-diameter of the burner of the lamp and that of the can- 
dle must be included in the length of the scale, a jjortiou of the latter 
at each end is cut off. In adjusting the scales, therefore, to their places, 
the measurement must be taken from the middle of each scale ; thus, in 
the case of the one of 200 inches in length, the middle of it must be just 
100 inches from the center of the lam]) on one side, and 100 inches from 
the center of the candle on the other. In making the examination, three 
observers simultaneously, one at each scale, take the photometric read- 
ings, and the mean of the three results is adopted as the candle-power 
of the light under examination. 

In the examination of oil previous to purchase, as we have said be- 
fore, a lamp of the fifth order is charged with the oil iu question, and 
when in a state of equilibrium of combustion it is subjected to the trial. 
For greater precision ten readings are taken on one side of the scale, 
and then the photometer is reversed and as many taken from the oppo- 
site side. In this way the mean of sixty readings, twenty on each 
scale, furnishes the data on which the character of the oil principally 
rests. As a means of simultaneously weighing the candles for checking 
the effects of their irregular burning, three balances are provided, each 
of which bears one of the candles in a socket sui)j)orted by a metallic 
link, through which the scale-beam i)asses and is attached to the hook 
of the scale-pan below. 

On the opposite scale-pan a series of grain weights are placed, which 
can be taken off without disturbing the equilibrium of the scale, by a 
pair of pincers ; the interval of time during which a given grain weight 
Is burned is marked by a watch. If the interval is equal to two grains 
for each 'minute, the candle is burning at its normal ratej if not, a cor- 



492 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

rection is made by simple proportion, whicli is applied to the measure- 
ment previously obtained. 

The lamps containing the oil for trial are lighted and trimmed in an 
adjoining apartment. They are introduced into the dark room through 
a window closed with a sliding shutter. In order to prevent an over- 
flow of oil at the burner by the oscillation of the liquid in the reservoir 
by the agitation of transfer, each lamp is placed on a small carriage 
moving on a railway, which, passing through the window, enables the 
lamp to be placed in its position with rapidity, and without the slight- 
est disturbance of the equilibrium of the oil. 

The temperature of the room is also noted, and, as far as possible, it 
is kept at a heat of not far from 70°. For this purpose, during warm 
weather the inspection may be made at night. 

For reading the divisions on the scales in the dark room, a mirror is 
emi^loyed to throw the light of the lamj) under inspection on the grad- 
ui\tion. 

To exclude all extraneous light, the three candles and the lam^) to be 
tested are each surrounded by a cylindrical sheet-iron screen, painted 
black, through which a hole a little larger than the flame allows the light 
to pass along the scale to the photometer. The trial-lamps are those of 
the fifth order. Each, after it has been lighted, is allowed to burn an 
hour before being submitted to the photometrical measurement. If it 
gives a power less than 8 caudles, the oil is rejected. If it passes that 
test, it is then allowed to burn undisturbed without being trimmed for 
8 or 9 hours longer, and if it is found at the end of that time to exhibit 
no diminution in the brilliancy of the light it is considered worthy ot 
adoption, especially if after this it continues to burn 4 or 5 hours with 
no perceptible diminution which can be detected with the naked eye. 
The best lard-oil will burn 16 hours without trimming. 

Bach caudle before the measurement commences is suffered to burn 
until it has assumed a j)erfect and uniform rate of consumj)tion ; it 
should be prevented from guttering by removing a portion of the melted 
spermaceti which may accumulate in the cup at the top of the candle 
beyond the power of the feeble incipient flame to consume, by absorb- 
ing it by one end of a strand of candle-wick cautiously introduced. If 
any portion of the spermaceti is suffered to run down the side of the 
candle and drop off below, the correction for variation in burning will 
be worthless. 

All materials for the use of the Light-House Establishment are pur- 
chased by contract in accordance with published sj)ecifications as re- 
gards quality and certain conditions. The award is given to the lowest 
bidder, provided he can offer trustworthy surety as to his ability to 
fulfill the contract. Preference is however given when bids are equal, 
or nearly so, to the bidder who is a manufacturer of the oil and not a 
mere vender of the article. During the inspection i>ermission is granted 
to the contractor to be i)resent at the operation, in order that he may 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 493 

be assured that full justice is done him in the examination. After see- 
ing- tlie precision with which the photometric and other processes are 
conducted, he is generally fully satisfied as to the results obtained, even 
though his oil may have been rejected. 

The oil is delivered in iron-bound casks, varjang from 38 to 50 gal- 
lons. These are placed, previous to inspection, under a shed and ar- 
ranged in different lots, each containing oil of the^same quality. From 
different casks samples are taken in tin canisters of a capacity of about 
half a gallon ; each canister being marked with the number of the lot 
and the cask from which the oil was taken. Before the sample is drawn 
from the cask the oil within is thoroughly mixed by rolling the cask, or 
by stirring. The object of this is to obtain in the sample an average 
amount of solid matter which may be contained in the oil. 

The purest lard-oil is that which is manufactured by submitting the 
solid leaf lard to great pressure during the coldest period of '« inter. 
Oil of this quality is used for burning in small mechanical lamps ; it 
gives a bright flame and does not incrust the wick. The light-house 
lamps however being of a much larger size and evolving a much 
greater amount of heat, can consume oil of a coarser character ; and 
indeed it has been found that oil containing a certain amount of solid 
matter, provided the latter is not too much in quantity to be consumed 
by the lamp, gives a higher illuminating power. On this account, be- 
fore this fact was generally known in the trade, complaints were made 
of the Light-House Board giving the preference to oil which, in the 
market, would not be considered of the first quality. 

The quantity of oil is estimated by weight, allowing 7.6 pounds per 
gallon. It is weighed in gross and afterward emptied into large tanks 
in an underground vault. The emjity barrels are next weighed ; the 
weight of these deducted gives the net weight of the oil. 

Previous to the establishment of the general light-house depot at 
Staten Island, from which all the supplies are now distributed, and the 
lamps and other light-house appliances are prepared for immediate use, 
the oil was received at various ports along the coast, in accordance 
with terms of the contract, and was stored until wanted for use, in cel- 
lars hired for that purpose. 

The Board however after the introduction of lard-oil, constructed 
a si)acious underground receptacle cax)able of containing 50,000 gallons 
of oil, and retaining it during the whole year at a temperature not to 
exceed 65'^ Fahrenheit. 

The underground vault contains five tanks, each of the capacity of 
ten thousand gallons. On each tank is a register, consisting of a glass 
tube so divided as to give the contents in hundreds of gallons. The oil 
is delivered in three installments: The first on the 1st of May, the sec- 
ond on the 10th of June, and the third on the 22d of July. The vault 
and tanks were constructed under the direction of General Poe while 
engineer secretary of the board, who also took a lively interest in the 



494 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

introduction of lard-oil and in the preliminary experiments for deter- 
mining its quality. 

A photometer room was afterward fitted up in the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, in which several series of investigations were made in regard to 
the illuminating power of different oils. At the same time a series of 
experiments was un4ertaken relative to their chemical characters and 
conditions ; in which experiments the chairman was assisted by Prof. 
C. M. Wetherill, whose untimely loss the science of this country has 
been called to mourn. Among the investigations in the laboratory are 
the following, relative to the expansions of different oils, intended to 
facilitate the purchase, the measurements being made at different tem. 
peratures. To obviate the necessity of the correction for temperature, 
the oil is now purchased by weight. The following results may how- 
ever be of value in the application of different oils to light-house pur- 
poses: 

EXPEEIMENTS UPON LIGHT-HOUSE OILS, 

[Density and volume of oils (and water) at different temperatures.] 



So 
<» 

a s 


Sperm oil. 


Whale (unre- 
fined). 


Lard (refined). 


Lard (unrefined). 


Volume. 


Density. 


Volume. 


Density. 


Volume. 


Density. 


Volume. 


Density. 


40 


1. 0000 
1. 0053 
1, 0095 
1. 0134 
1. 0168 
1. 0208 
1. 0243 
L0286 


0. 89256 
0. 88783 
0. 88418 
0. 88072 
0. 87778 
0. 87432 
0. 87139 
0. 86721 


1. 0000 
1. 0049 
1. 0095 
1. 0145 
1.0166 
1. 0200 
1. 0236 
1. 0297 


0. 92825 
0. 92370 
0. 91952 
0. 91498 
0. 91311 
0.90999 
0. 90688 
0, 90146 


1. 0000 
1. 0042 
1. 0093 
1. 0124 
1. 0164 
1. 0204 
1. 0237 
1.0278 


0. 92488 
0. 92103 
0. 91632 
0. 91356 
0. 90992 
0. 90641 
0. 90351 
0. 89986 






10°.... 
150.... 
20°.... 
250.... 
30°.... 
350.... 
40°.... 


1. 0000 
1. 0051 
1. 0109 
1. 0146 
1. 1169 
1. 0204 
1. 0244 


0. 92086 
0. 91614 
0. 91090 
0. 90760 
0. 90556 
0. 90247 
0. 89897 


® 


Kerosene. 


Water (C.M.W.). 


Water (Kopp). 


Alcohol (Pierre), 
voLatOoC. = l 
vol. 


Volume. 


Density. 


Volume. 


Density. 


Volume. 


Density. 


C. 


Density. 


4° .... 
10° .... 
15°.... 
20°.... 
250.... 
30° 


1. 0000 
1. 0050 
1. 0106 
1. 0152 
1. 0187 
1. 0234 
1. 0276 
1. 0321 


0, 81199 
0. 80799 
0. 80347 
0. 79984 
0. 79709 
0. 79346 
0. 79020 
0.78674 


1. 00000 
1. 00048 
1. 00086 
1. 00176 
1. 00303 
1. 00447 
1. 00619 
1. 00774 


1. 00000 
0. 99952 
0. 99915 
0. 99824 
0. 99698 
0. 99555 
0. 99384 
0. 99232 


1. 0000 
1. 0003 
1. 0008 
1. 0017 
1. 0028 
1. 0042 , 


1. 00000 
0. 99975 
0. 99918 
0. 99831 
0. 99717 
0. 99579 


0° 
10° 
20° 
30° 
40° 


1. 0000 
1. 0107 
1. 0217 
1. 0331 
1. 0448 


'3b'^ 






40° 





















INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 495 
ORGANIC ANALYSES OF LIGHT-HOUSE OILS. 

i^o. 1. — Refined winter -pressed lard-oil. 





First ex- 
periment. 


Second ex- 
periment. 


Mean. 


By calcula- 
tion. 


Carbon 


76.87 
1L58 


76. 53 
11.63 


76. 75 
11.61 
11. 64 


C44 76 74 


Hvtlrogen. 


Hjr. 11 63 


Oxygen ......... - 


O5 11 63 












Formula - 






100. 00 


100 00 














No. 


2, — Crude lard-oil. 






Carbon 


77.07 
1L72 


76.70 
11.69 


76.88 
11.71 
11.41 




Hydrogen . , 




Oxyeen ... 




















100.00 














N 


0. 3. — Sperm-oil. 






Carbon 


79.52 
12. 28 


79.41 
12.28 


79.46 

12.28 

8.26 


C„_79.70 


Hydrogen 


H49 — 12.28 


Oxveen --- 


O4 — 8.02 












Formula - 








100. 00 















EXPERIMENTS OF MIXING OILS WITH OIL OF VITRIOL OF 6G'=> BEAU:ME, 

AT C20 F. 

First experiment. — Winter-pressed lard-oil. 

[Of oil, 2 fluid ounces ; of acid, 1 fluid ounce : ] 

Temperature of oil before nixing 70° F. 

Temperature of oil after slow mixing 130° 

Difference 60° 

At the expiration of 3 minutes, temperature 134° 

At the expiration of 4 minutes, temperature 134° 

Second experiment. — -Winter-pressed lard-oil. 

Temperature before mixing 70° F. 

Temperature after mixing rapidly 169° 

Difference ^^° 



496 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

Third experiment. — Winter-pressed lard-oil. 

Temperature before mixing - 70° F. 

Temperature after mixing ... 165° 

Difference 95° 

Fourth experiment. — Crude lard-oil. 

Temperature before mixing 66° F. 

Temperature after mixing 164° 

Difference. 98© 

REFRIGERATION OF THE OILS. 

Those experimented upon were whale, sperm, refined lard, and crude 

lard. 

First experiment. 

At 30°.2 F. they were all sirupy ; in the crude lard-oil a yellowish 
solid began to separate. 

At 260.G the sperm-oil began to solidify. 

At 24°.8 the refined lard began to yield a white precipitate. 

At I70.G the whale-oil was a thick sirup, without deposit. The crude 
lard-oil was quite hard. The pure lard-oil was not as hard as the crude 
lard-oil. The sperm-oil was not as hard as the pure lard-oil. These ex- 
periments performed in test tubes. 

Second' eocperiment. 

Upon pure winter-pressed lard-oil, in a test tube. 
At 170.6 F., begins to deposit flakes of solid matter. 
At 14° is quite thick. 
At 100.4 it is perfectly solid. 

If, now, the temperature rises, a small portion of the oil remains solid 
until the temperature reaches 44o.6. 

Third experiment. 

The oils were placed in large cylinders and exposed to a temperature 
of 240.8 F., with the following results: 

1. Crude lard-oil, much sediment. 

2. Sperm-oil, ditto. 

3 Pure refined lard-oil, a little sediment. 

4. Winter-strained lard-oil, very little sediment. 

5. Whale-oil, no sediment. 

In the use of sperm-oU, it was found that the purer it could be ob- 
tained the better, and hence it was the custom to strain the oil through 
clean white sand previous to using it, and also the drippings. In the 
case of lard however, it was found that removing all the solid matter 
diminished its photometric power. 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS 497 

All fatty oils absorb oxygen, wbicli unites with them to form oxides 
of their combustible ingredients; oil therefore freely exposed to the air, 
must in time gradually diminisli in its power of combustion. It should 
not, therefore, be open to the atmosphere when the oil is to be stored, 
but covered Avith a thin wooden plane, which floats upon the surface of 
the oil, and thus in a great measure excludes the air. The freezing of 
lard-oil does not appear to aflect its quality. 

Considerable difficulty was experienced in the introduction of lard- 
oil, on account of the objection to it on the part of the keepers ; in some 
cases from the want of exjierience in using it, and in others from the in- 
terference of venders of sperm-oil. This difficulty however was obvi- 
ated by a resolution of the board, by which any keeper that declared 
his inability to burn lard-oil should be requested to resign, since it had 
been abundantly proved that this oil, with proper management, could 
be made favorably to compete with sperm. Its introduction was a mat- 
ter of great importance in an economical point of view ; it saved the gov- 
ernment $100,000 annually for several years. 

Another important step in the introduction of lard-oil was that of fur- 
nishing a lamp wliich would burn it with the greatest perfection. This 
was due to the invention of Mr. Joseph Func^k, foreman of the lamp- 
shop. As we have said, in order to burn lard-oil it is necessary it 
should be kept at a high temperature, and for this purpose the heat of 
the draught of the lamp was passed through the center of the reservoir. 

Previous to the change in the illuminating material there had been 
used in the Light-House Establishment three classes of lamps, viz, the 
mechanical lamp for the first, second, and third orders, and the moder- 
ator and fountain lamps for the fourth, fifth, and sixth orders. 

In the mechanical lamp the oil was placed in a reservoir below the 
burner, and pumped up by means of clock-work. This apparatus is of a 
complicated character, and is subject to derangement. The valves must 
be renewed from time to time, and the clock-work cleaned. The i)roper 
performance of these operations is beyond the skill of an ordinary keeper, 
and requires the frequent aid of a trained lampist. 

The moderator lanlp is less complicated, and was invented to obviate 
the difficulties just mentioned. In this the oil is elevated by the des(;eut 
of a heavy piston, and forced up through a small conical hole, the flow 
being regulated by the conical end of a wire, which is gradually with 
drawn as the weight descends, so as to give a less-obstructed flow as 
the hydrostatic pressure of the oil increases. From this arrangement 
it takes its name of moderator lamp. This apparatus however is liable 
to irregularity on account of derangement of the sitpplying apparatus, 
the varying friction of the packing of the piston, as well as the change 
in the flow of the quantity of oil, owing to its less liquidity due to a dimi- 
nution in temperature. 

The reservoir of the fountain-lamp consists in an air-fight vessel, 
usually cylindrical, from the bottom of which descends a tube, terminat- 
S. Mis. 31 32 



498 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

ing at the open end in a small cup, from which the burner is directly 
supplied with oil on the well-known principle of "the bird fountain, this 
vessel being filled with oil by inverting it and pouring in the liquid 
through the open end of the tube. It is then reinverted and the end of 
the tube inserted in the small cup below the level of the oil which it 
contains. The oil in the reservoir in this condition is supported by the 
pressure of the atmosphere on the surface of the oil in the cup. When 
this surface is lowered by burning, the end of the tube is opened, and 
a bubble of air passes up and an equal bulk of oil descends, and in this 
way a nearly constant level of oil is maintained. I say nearly constant 
because the air which goes up is of some volume and in the act of pass- 
ing up i^roduces an oscillation which, in some degree, affects the stead- 
iness of the burning of the flame. 

There is however a greater defect iu this lamp from the oscillations in 
the level when the reservoir has been exhausted of a considerable por- 
tion of its charge of oil. In this case the arrangement is one similar to 
an air thermometer with a large bulb, and is affected by a sudden draught 
produced by the opening and shutting of a door or the ordinary ventila- 
tion of the lantern. This was partly remedied by bending the tube, and 
thereby increasing the resistance to a sudden change in the level of the 
oil. 

The improvement of Mr. Funck consisted in substituting for these 
lamps one of constant level, in which the oil is placed above the burner, 
and the flow of oil necessary for perfect combustion is regulated by a 
small floating piston, placed in an enlarged portion of the supply-tube, 
and carrying on its upper surface a conical projection which increases 
or diminishes the size of the supplying orifice in accordance with the 
rapidity of combustion. This lamp is not only free from the objections 
pertaining to the other lamps, but is less expensive and better adapted 
to the burning of lard-oil. It aflbrds a freer combustion, and conse- 
quently a more intense light, though at the cost of a larger amount of 
the burning material. 

In this lamp the heated air and products of combustion pass through 
a cylindrical opening in the reservoir, which is placed directly above 
the lamp, the opening in it forming as it were a prolongation of the 
chimney, thus not only preventing the oil from freezing in the coldest 
weather, but supplying it to the burner at the temperature best adapted 
for perfect combustion. 

In regard to the comparative character of lard and colza oil, we may 
be allowed to print the following letter from Colonel Hamilton, the man- 
ufacturer of the latter oil, who was present at the trial to which he 

alludes : 

Fond du Lac, Wis., 3fay 16, 1868. 

Dear Commodore: I must confess my great disappointment at 

the result of the experiments at Staten Island. It is however not really 

so much the failure of rape-seed oil, as the undeniable excellence of lard- 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 499 

oil as a burner. I fully believe that our rape-seed oil of this year is as 
good as any that was ever made in Europe, and 1 kno^Y it is far better 
than any we have ever before made. I am satisfied now tliat, for self- 
heating lamps, there is no oil that will bear comparison with lard, but 1 
am equally satisfied that no colza oil will yield a better result than ours, 
under exactly the same tests. We have but one more experiment to 
make with colza ; it is its extraction by chemical disi)lacement. If this 
fails, we shall abandon .the whole business. 

If all things are put together, I think the following statement will 
be allowed, to wit : Our colza oil is equal to any foreign colza. It is better 
than any we have heretofore made. It is better than sperm or any other 
burner, excepting only lard-oil. Our failure then is owing to the supe- 
rior excellence of lard-oil, which, under the persistent investigation of 
the board, has been shown to be the best and cheapest safe illuminator 
available. 

The board are entitled to great credit in producing this result. It 
will be remembered that but a few years since lard-oil was pronounced 
unsuitable for light-house purposes, but the perseverence of the board 
has brought out the fact that it is much the best and cheapest oil, and 
that the expenses of lighting the coast and harbors have been thereby 
greatly reduced. Surely the country at large should acknowledge this, 
and give due credit to the board. We have endeavored to do with colza 
what the board have effected with lard-oil, and we have been unsuccess- 
ful both for ourselves and the light-house interest. The undertaking 
has been no source of profit to us, and had the capital and time that 
have been devoted to colza been used in our other branch of manufac- 
ture (linseed oil), it would at least have reimbursed us with a fair re- 
munerative return. As regards the oil we have offered, we have hoped 
the board would take it. I do not think we can improve upon the qual- 
ity, and it is the last we shall venture to offer to the acceptance of the 
board, for we shall henceforth abandon the manufacture, except for local 
wants. 

We are grateful to each member of the board for the interest they 
have always shown in our undertaking, and for their uniform kindness 
and courtesy. Accept, my dear commodore, for yourself and your asso- 
ciates in the board, ray warmest thanks for your many kind expressions 
of interest, and beUeve me, truly and gratefully, yours, 

0. S. Hamilton. 

Com. A. A. Harwood, TJ. 8. N., 

Secretary Light-House Board, Wasliington, D. C. 

From the date of the introduction of lard-oil in 18G5, '60, and '07, until 
the end of 1873, when the attention of the board was again directed to 
the study of mineral oil, continual improvements were made in the pro- 
cesses of its preservation and inspection, and also in the lamps and 
other appliances for its employment, and nothing fui'ther as a light-house 



500 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

illuminant was required. It is therefore with regret that we are urged, 
on account of the increased price of the article, due in some degree to 
the reputation as a burning material given it by the board itself, to sub- 
stitute for it a less reliable but a much more economical material. 

At the time lard-oil was introduced a series of experiments was made 
on the comparative value of the diiferent petroleum oils used in this 
country. They were however all considered too dangerous to be in- 
trusted to the ordinary keepers of the light-statipns of our coast. Since 
the date however of these investigations, improvements have been made 
in the manufacture of these oils, by which a much greater range has been 
obtained in the temi^erature at which they give off an explosive vapor. 
During the last two years, therefore, a new series of investigations has 
been made relative to these illuminating agents, of which we i^ropose in 
the succeding pages to give a brief account. 

The crude petroleums of the Pennsylvania oil region are of a greenish 
or yellowish appearance, and have a specific gravity of 45° to 49° 
Beaume, at a temperature of 60° Fahrenheit. Some are so volatile as 
to evaporate rapidly at the ordinary temperature of the air, rendering it 
dangerous to approach an open cask of crude petroleum with a flame ; 
others are much less volatile, requiring a temperature of /rom 200° to 
300° F. to vaporize them. The volatility of the hydro-carbons is inti- 
mately connected with their specific gravity. They become heavier as 
the volatile ingredients are driven off by heat. The inflammability of 
the oils is also connected with their volatility and the specific gravity. 
The light volatile oils ignite, as we have said, on the approach of a burn- 
ing match at ordinary temperatures, while the heavier require a higher 
temi^erature for ignition. The i)rocess of manufacturing these oils con- 
sists in separating them from each other as they occur in the crude oil 
of the springs by what is called fractional distillation ; for this purpose 
the crude oil is placed in an iron still provided with a worm of the same 
metal submerged in a tank of water for cooling it ; the still is then grad- 
ually heated ; the first product that passes over is gaseous at ordinary 
temj)eratures, and can only be condensed into a liquid form by cooling 
the worm with ice, or by compressing the gas with an air-pump into a 
strong receiver. After all the vapor is given off at the temperature, say 
at 90° F., the temperature of the liquid in the still is raised, a liquid is 
produced which exhales in vapor at a higher temperature and is of 
greater density — and so on, a series of liquids are produced, each of 
which requires to be heated to a higher degree before taking fire on the 
approach of a lighted match — these more volatile vapors are heavier 
than atmospheric air, and when suffered to escape from the cask con- 
taining them in a separate state will flow along the surface of the floor 
of a room, and reaching a distant fire-place will ignite, and burning- 
backward to the reservoir will set fire to the oil from which they ema- 
nated. 

Many serious accidents have occurred in this way, by the firing of a 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 501 

canister containing petrolenui oil which has been left open, although at 
a distance in some cases of from 20 to 30 feet from a lighted fire. An- 
other source of danger from the lighted oils from whieli the more volatile 
vapors arise results from the fact that these vaj^ors when mixed with a 
certain portion of atmospheric air exjilode on the approach of a flame 
with extreme violence. When the proportions of vapor and air are 
equal no explosion takes place ; but when they are in the ratio of 10 
parts of the vapor in volume to 100 parts of air the explosion is most 
violent ; when the quantity of air or of petroleum vapor is increased or 
diminished the explosion is less violent until one or other becomes ex- 
cessive, when the vapor kindles without explosion, as is the case with 
ordinary street gas when issuing from the burner. 

A notable case of the explosive quality of a mixture of petroleum 
vapor and airoccured in connection with the light-house service in 18G4, 
on Lake Michigan. The keeper in one of the light houses of this dis- 
trict substituted on his own responsibility an ordinary kerosene lamp of 
tinned iron, for the usual lard-oil lamp. This gave a good light and re- 
quired no trimming during the night ; it burned well for several nights, 
and the keeper congratulated himself on the success of what he consid- 
ered a very important experiment. Unfortunately however on the last 
morning that the lamp was used, he attempted to put it out in the usual 
way by blowing the air from his lungs down the chimney, when an ex- 
plosion took place, which scattered the oil in a burning state over the 
deck of the tower and also on his clothes ; in his fright he ran down 
the stairs of the tower, and had scarcely reached the ground when a 
violent explosion was heard above, which blew oft' the whole lantern 
and broke the lenticular apparatus. 

The explanation of these two explosions is not difiicult. The burning 
of the oil during the night left a space void of the liquid in the reser- 
voir of the lamp, which was filled with air and vapor, which happened 
on this occasion to be near the explosive proportions ; on blowing air 
down the chimney it mingled with the vapor furnishing the quantity 
necessary for the violent combination, and consequently the explosion 
occurred which broke the lamp. The second explosion was caused by 
the ascent of the vapor from the burning oil on the deck, and took place 
when the quantity exhaled amounted to a tenth part of the volume of 
air i)resent. The tw^o then suddenly rushed into combination, i)roducing 
the eftects that we have mentioned. 

Under favorable circumstances this lamp lighted with kerosene might 
tiave burned silently for several wrecks, but in accordance with the doc- 
trine of chances, time enough being given, an explosion was inevitable. 
Facts of this kind in connection with the difficulty experienced in burn- 
ing mineral oil in light-house lamps induced the Light-House Board to 

adojjt lard-oil. 

Various experiments have however been made from time to time by 
the Light-House Board with a view to the introduction of petroleum as 



502 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

an illuminating material, as soon as oil could be obtained in this country 
of a suitable character, lard-oil having advanced in price to such a de- 
gree as to render this change desirable in an economical j)oint of view. 
In the mean time experiments had also been made in France and 
England for the purpose of introducing mineral oil as a light-house illu- 
minant,. but it was not until 1873 or 1874 that the result was entirely 
satisfactory. 

The process of manufacturing the oil has been very much improved 
in this country of late years, and there are now several companies which 
profess to produce oil entirely safe, and otherwise suitable for light- 
house purposes. In view of further experiments with mineral oil, an 
advertisement was inserted in the papers, in 1874, requesting man- 
ufacturers to send samples of their oils to be tested at the Light-House 
depot at Staten Island, and in accordance with this a number of speci- 
mens were received and submitted to examination. 

The first test to which the oils thus furnished were submitted was 
that of flashing, that is, the determination of the temperature at which 
the oil gives oft' a vapor which will flash into a flame on the approach of 
a small taper, or, in other words, which indicates the rise of a vapor 
which, mixed with atmospheric air, will tend to produce an explosion. 
The flashing temperature differs however from that at which the liquid 
takes fire as a whole. This will be understood if we suppose that two 
liquids have been mixed together, a light and a heavy one ; the flash in 
this case will be due to the vapor from the lighter mixture, while the 
burning is due to the temi)erature at which the compound is fired. To 
make this flashing test requh^es considerable precautions. First, the oil 
to be tried is gradually heated by a spirit-lamp in a water-bath, a sensi- 
tive thermometer being suspended in the oil with the bulb slightly be- 
low the surface, the heat of the water is very slowly increased by re- 
moving from time to time the spirit-lamp from under the basin of the 
water-bath which contains the oil, and the point of flashing is obtained 
by passing over the surface of the oil a small flame until the first indi- 
cation of flash is observed. The flame should not be so large as to heat 
the surface, and is best produced by a very small jet of gas from a glass 
tube drawn nearly to a point and connected with the gas pipe of the 
house by a tube of India-rubber, the quantity of gas being regulated by 
a stop-cock, so that the flame is a mere pencil of light about a quarter 
of an inch in length and a twentieth in diameter. The basin which 
contains the oil is about four inches in diameter, and is sometimes cov- 
ered with a plate of thin glass, the thermometer passing through an ap- 
erture in this cover, and a larger hole being left open in the same for 
inserting the pencil of the flame. The basin containing the oil is some, 
times left entirely open, the cover being discarded, but we do not think 
this as safe a method as the other. Great caution must be taken in 
raising the temperature very gradually, so that every part of the liquid 
may have the same heat and the thermometer thus truly indicate the tern- 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 503 

perature. If the rise of the temperature be very sudden, the thermom- 
eter will uot respond, and the real flashing temperature will be h\'^]wv 
than that which is indicated. 

The next test is that of llriug of the mass of the liquid, which is some- 
times 10 or 12 degrees higher than that of the flashing temperature, but 
generally the two are very near each other. 

The next test is the determination of the specific gravity. This was 
obtained by weighing, in a glass flask Avith a narrow neck, an e(iual 
quantity of distilled water and of the oil in question; the ratio of the 
two, reduced to water as unity, gave the specific gravity required. To 
facilitate the operation, a flask, containing Just 1,000 grains of distilled 
water, was balanced by a permanent weight. The scales were tested 
by double weighing. The first series of weighing was made at the tem- 
perature of 74° F., that of the apartment in which the exi)eriment was 
conducted; but oil and other substances change their bulk, and conse- 
quently their specific gravity, with a change of temperature. It is 
therefore necessary, in order that results may be compared, that the - 
experiments be all made at the same temperature, or reduced to a stan- 
dard temperature. The temperature formerly adopted in England for 
specific gravity is 02° F.; but in the case of petroleum, the temperature 
of 00° has been adopted in this country and England. In the first series 
of experiments made with the oils in question, the weighing was con- 
ducted at a temperature of H^, as we have said, namely, that of the 
atmosphere at the time. A series of experiments at a lower temper- 
ature was afterward made, in order to obtain a correction by which to 
reduce the specific gravity first obtained to that of a temperature of 00° ; 
but as each oil exhibits a diflerent rate of expansion by heat, the process 
became very laborious. Experiments were therefore made to determine 
the correctness of obtaining the specific gravity of the oils by means of 
a hydrometer. This was found to differ from that obtained by weigh- 
ing within one per cent., and was therefore concluded to be sufliciently 
accurate for practical purposes. 

To obtain the specific gravity of the oils by means of a hydrometer, 
a vessel containing, say, 10 gallons of water, of a depth of about 14 
inches, is provided ; into this are introduced several glass cylinders con- 
taining the oil, and into these cylinders the hydrometers are plunged, 
the level of the oil being so far above the water that the under contact 
of the surface of the liquid with the scale may be observed. Before 
inserting the glass cylinders containing the oils into this water-bath, 
the liquid is brought, by mixing ice-water with it, to the temperature of 
60°, at which temperature it may be kept for a long time, on account of 
the large quantity of the liquid and the great specific heat of the water. 
A change of temperature may be prevented by occasionally adding a 
small quantity of ice-cold water, care being taken to mingle the mixture 
by stirring. By this process may be obtained the specific gravity at GO^ 
of a large number of samples in a comparatively short time. In this 



504 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 



country and England the density or relative weight of petroleum oils is 
generally expressed in terms of the arbitrary scale of Beaume's, instead 
of that of the specific gravity. The following table gives the equiva- 
lent of the Beaume scale in terms of specific gravity: 

Beaumeh hydrometer for liquids lighter than water. 



Degrees, 


Specific 


Degrees, 


Specific 


Degrees, 


Specific 


Degrees, 


Specific 


BeauuK?* 


gravity. 


Beaum6. 


gravity. 


Beaum^. 


gravity. 


Beaum6. 


gravity. 


10 


1.000 


23 


.918 


36 


.849 


49 


.789 


11 


0. 993 


24 


.913 


37 


.844 


50 


.785 


12 


.986 


25 


.907 


38 


.839 


51 


.781 


13 


.980 


26 


.901 


39 


.834 


52 


.777 


14 


.973 


27 


.896 


40 


.830 


53 


.773 


15 


.967 


28 


.890 


4. 


.825 


54 


.768 


16 


.960 


29 


.885 


42 


.820 


55 


.764 


17 


.954 


30 


.880 


43 


.816 


56 


.760 


18 


.948 


31 


.874 


44 


.811 


57 


.757 


19 


.942 


32 


.869 


45 


.807 


58 


.753 


20 


.936 


33 


.864 


46 


.802 


59 


.749 


21 


.930 


34 


.859 


47 


.798 


60 


.745 


22 


.924 


35 


.854 


48 


.794 










• 



Another test to which the mineral oil was subjected was that of a 
reduction of temperature. For this purpose the samples were placed 
in an air-bath reduced to the temperature of 25° F. At this tempera- 
ture several of the oils exhibited a thickened condition, especially tbose 
of the higher fire-test. The apparatus used for this purpose was the 
same as that previously described as employed in the case of lard-oil. 

The next test to which the oil was subjected was that of its liquidity. 
This test is of some importance in regard to lamps in which the oil is 
pumped \\\} by machinery, and also as to the solid matter in the oil. It 
therefore gives a characteristic of the oil which with others serves to 
determine its degree of impurity. For this purj^ose the same method 
was employed as that described for determining the liquidity of lard- 
oil. The liquidity exhibited by this process was very different in differ- 
ent oils. 

All the experiments on the flowing of the oils were made at the tem- 
perature of the air, which was from 72° to 74°. In this case, as with 
lard, a marked difference was found in the time of flowing at dift'erent 
temperatures, and hence for comparison the experiments should be made 
at a standard temperature. 

Another experiment was made to ascertain whether oils of higher 
flashing test gave off a vapor at the ordinary temperature of the atmos- 
sphere; for example, at about 70^. For this i)uri)Ose a barometer tube 
of about 33 inches in length, and an interior diameter of one-half of an 
inch, was filled with warm mercury inverted in a basin of the same 
metal. The finger was then placed under the open mouth of the tube 
in the basin and the tube slowly inverted so as gradually to pass the 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 505 

vacuum through the whole length of the column, and thus to gather up 
any particles of air that might adhere to the side of the tube; this left 
a space, when the inverted tube was held vertically, of about three 
inches of the open end of the tube unlilled with mercury; this being 
refilled, the finger applied to the open end and the tube again replaced 
with the open end downward in the basin, the vacuum jirodiuied by this 
process was nearly as perfect as if the mercury had been boiled in the 
tube, or the latter filled with the metal in a vacuum. After this, a small 
quantity of oil to be tested was drawn into a small glass syringe, the 
curved point of which being introduced beneath the open mouth of the 
tube under the surface of the mercury, a small quantity of the liquid was 
injected into the column; this rapidly rose by its levity to the top, and 
there a i)ortion of it flashed into vapor, as was evident by the depres- 
sion of the mercurial column. 

From this experiment it is evident that kerosene, even of a high flash- 
ing temperature, does give off vapor at ordinary temperature. It is 
however of so feeble tension that it does not appear capable of produc- 
ing explosion unless considerable time be allowed for its accunudation. 
It might not be apparent that although vapor was given off in a vac- 
uum, as in this case, it would be given ofl" under the full pressure of 
the atmosphere ; but it has been shown by the experiments of Mr. l)al- 
ton and others, that vapors diffuse themselves in a space filled with 
atmospheric air with the same elasticity and quantity as in a vacuum, 
time only being i-equired to produce the efiect in the atmosphere. 

The oils were also examined as to the remains of any free acid which 
they might contain, by simply immersing in each samjile a slip of litmus 
l^aper, w^hich was suffered to remain in the liquid for 24 hours; under 
this test several of the samples exhibited a redness, denoting the pres- 
ence of an acid which might corrode the metal of the lamjis, also indi- 
cating the want of a thorough washing of the oil by an alkaline water. 

Another experiment, which was exhibited to us by one of the i)roprie- 
tors of the oil which has a flashing test of about 140° F., consisted in 
lighting a lamp-wick charged with the oil and plunging it into a vessel 
filled AYith the same. The oil did not take tire, although the combustion 
of the wick was vigorous, and, indeed, the flame Avas put out when the 
wick was plunged beneath the surface of the oil. This experiment, 
which is frequently exhibited to the i)ublic, tends to give a sense of 
safety in the use of mineral oil which is at least in some degree falla- 
cious. To illustrate this, the following experiments were made: First a 
slip of cotton cloth, about G inches wide and 2 feet long, was saturated 
witli oil having a flashing test of 140°, and suspended vertically from a 
ring-stand; a lighted match was then applied to the middle of the length 
of the slip, when it instantly took fire, and burned with a fierceness 
which was truly appalling. 

After this two pieces of cloth, one of cotton and the other of woolen, 
were saturated with petroleum and placed flat on two pieces of tinned 



506 INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 

iron to protect the floor. On each of these was then dropped an ordi- 
nary friction match in a state of ignition. They both broke instantly 
into flames, which soon entirely consumed the cloth, although but little 
air could obtain access to its under side, and notwithstanding the good 
conducting power of the tinned iron. 

In a similar exi)eriment made with the same cloth saturated with 
lard-oil the cloth did not take fire when a lighted match was dropped 
upon it. Two cotton cloths the same size were saturated, one with lard- 
oil, the other with petroleum, and lighted at the same time. The petro- 
leum cloth was consumed in 1 minute 23 seconds; the lard cloth in 5 
minutes. 

To render these experiments more strikingly applicable to cases of 
accident which might occur in a light-house, fl piece of cotton cloth 
about 2 feet square, which had been used to wipe the table on which 
kerosene had been spilled, was crumpled up into the condition of an 
ordinary dish-cloth and thrown into a corner of the room. When a 
lighted match was dropped on this it • instantly took fire and burned 
with a fierceness truly alarming. 

These experiments are important in establishing the fact that oils 
which are commonly sold as entirely free from danger are not really so. 
They may be safe from explosions at ordinary temperatures, and in this 
respect are to be preferred to the lighter oils ; but when spread over a 
large surface they burn with greater intensity, even, as we have seen, 
on a surface of ice. Indeed, the results are so striking it might be well 
to repeat them in the presence of every light-house keeper, in order to 
impress him with an idea of the danger which might be apprehended in 
spilling the oil over his clothes or in carelessly dropping his matches on 
cloths which had been used in cleaning the apparatus. • 

Among the peculiar properties of mineral oil is its great surface- 
attraction or power of adhering and spreading on other surfaces, as well 
as ascending wicks to a much greater altitude than other oils. This 
property is recognized by the housekeeper who finds the exterior of the 
lamp covered with a film of oil shortly after it has been subjected to a 
thorough cleansing. It rises along the interior surface of the lamp and 
spreads over the outside. On account of this property it can be freely 
burned in lamps of which the fountain is at a considerable distance 
below the flame, and in which no overflow is required to produce a bril- 
liant combustion. 

A series of experiments was next made with regard to the burning 
qualities of mineral oils of diflerent densities, from which it was inferred 
that the lighter oils in lamps of the fourth order gave a greater amount 
of illumination than the heavier oils, and, furthermore, that the latter 
charge the wick more than the former, from which it would appear that, 
in using mineral oil, while safety should be the prominent consideration 
on the one hand, in the choice of the material, regard must be had on 
the other to the illuminating power. 

In regard to the relative photometric power of lamps of the same 



INVESTIGATIONS RELATIVE TO ILLUMINATING MATERIALS. 507 

order charged with mineral and with hird oil, all the experiments Me 
have yet made on this point tend to the conclusion that in smaller lamps 
with the more volatile oils a greater i^hotometric i)ower is obtained than 
with the same lamp when charged with lard-oil; but with the larger 
lamps the reverse is the case, the lard giving greater power burned in 
these lamias than the mineral oil. 

An unexpected difficulty arose in the course of the investigations for 
the introduction of mineral oils on account of the form of the flame. 
While a lamp with a constricted chimney, like that used in the German 
student-lamp, gave the greatest photometrical power, it was found that 
the shape of the flame did not correspond with the arrangement of the 
lens-apparatus, a large portion of the light being thrown upward toward 
the sky and another toward the earth. It was only after a series of 
trials with chimneys of different forms and button-dellectors that a flame 
of the best shape was obtained. To compare these flames in actual use, 
they were iilaced in succession in a lighthousej with a lens of the fourth 
order, and the j)hotometrical power determined at different distances, 
from a mile to ten miles in extent, by interposing between the (»ye and 
the light a series of thin colored glasses, until the light was totally ex- 
tinguished. It was found in these experiments that some of the flames 
that had an appearance of greater brilliancy near by failed to i)roduce 
comparatively the same effect at a greater distance. Having settled 
upon the form of the flame to be used in lamps of the lower orders, ar- 
rangements have been made for the introduction of mineral oils into all 
the stations in the third district, at which lights of the fourth and 
smaller orders are at present in use. The substitution of mineral for 
lard oil however is a matter of no small difficulty, and requires to be 
made with great precaution. An entire change in all the lamps is re- 
quired; the several parts of the apparatus which in the case of lard- 
oil lamps were united by soft solder must now be joined with spelter. 

The importance of this was evinced by an accident which happened 
in the photometric room in the case of a lamp of the fourth order under 
trial; the heat unsoldered an air-tube and let down the oil from the res- 
ervoir on the flame, which produced so fierce a combustion that it would 
have set fire to the building had it not been of fire-proof materials. 

The gradual introduction however of mineral oil will be made as 
rapidly as experience indicates the best and safest mode of employing 
it. It has already been adopted in the smaller lamps for lighting the 
Mississippi and its principal tributaries. The substitution however is 
not on account of the superior quality of this oil in comparison with 
lard, since we think the latter as an illuminating material is inferior to 
no other at present in use, but simply on account of the comparative 
cost of the two materials. 

The comparative cost of the two materials will be definitely ascer- 
tained after we have determined the best form of lamps to be used. 
Experiments thus ftir have been principally confined to the lower orders 
of lamps. 



A. SYNOPSIS 

OF THE SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS OF SIR WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 



By Edward S. Holden and Charles S. Hastings. 



I,— Introductory Note. 

The astronomical life of Sir William Herschel covered forty two 
years. During this period he published no less than sixty-nine different 
memoirs, which are scattered through the annual volumes of the Philo- 
sophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London from 1780 to 181S. 

Two generations have passed since his death, and we have no readier 
means of studying his works than in the original volumes of the Trans- 
actions, now become rare and costly. Students of astronomy and physics 
are thus often compelled to know his writings at second- hand from text- 
books, and not in the vigorous and ardent style of the original. The 
text-books also frequently quote him incorrectly, and have thus helped 
to spread erroneous notions not only of what he said, but of the facts 
themselves. 

Herschel's long life was all too short, and his assistance was too 
small to allow him to put even his ijublished work into a final definite 
form. He has once given us a hint of what he desired, and it seems 
scarcely less than a duty for his successors to carry out his wishes. 

At the end of his memoir of 1811, Herschel added a synopsis of its 
contents made paragraph by paragraph ; this synopsis (which is given at 
pages 87-80 of this worlc) serves to summarize and to enforce his. views, 
and to condense his arguments. His style lends itself to tliis condensa- 
tion. The synopsis of 5 pages contains all the material facts of the 
main paper of G7 pages, and the course of the argument can be plainly 
followed. 

In the absence of an edition of Herschel's collected works, a want 
whose fulfillment still seems far oft', we have thought that we could 
hardly render a better service than to carry out for all of his writings 
the idea which he executed for only one. The model has been set by 
himself. We have simply followed this, and have given a synopsis of 
each of his memoirs in the Philosophical Transactions, following his own 
plan. The papers on astronomical subjects have been condensed by 
Professor Holden; those on physics by Dr. Hastings. The Avorks of 
Herschel published elsewhere have not been included in the synopsis, 
as they are comparatively unimijortant. 



510 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 

It is not supposed that such synopses as these will replace the origi- 
nal memoirs for the professional astronomer and physicist. The works 
of a great philosopher to be truly mastered must be studied in the 
form in which he gave them. Yet those who are most familiar with the 
originals will find the present volume most valuable. 

The full subject-index will direct attention to special points. It is 
hoped that the work in its present form wiU be of service in various 
ways, which do not need suggestion here. 

EDWARD S. HOLDEK 
CHARLES S. HASTINGS. 

Washington, October, 1880. 



II. — List of the published writings of William Herschel on 

ASTRONOMICAL SUBJECTS. 
[in chronological order.] 

[N. B. In general, translations and abstracts of these which appeared in periodicals are not noticed 
here. Wo have made exceptions in the more important cases.] 

[Solution of a prize question.] 

ladies' Diary, 1799. 
Astronomical obsfrvations on the periodical star in Collo Ceti. 

Phil. Trans., 1780, p. 338. 

Astronomical observations relating to the mountains of the moon. 

Phil. Trans., 1780, p. 507. 

Astronomical observations on the rotation nf the planets round their axes, made with 
a view to determine whether the earth's diurnal motion is perfectly equable. 

Phil. Trans., 1781, p. 115. 

Account of a comet. [Dated 13th March, 1781. This was ?7ranws.] 

Phil. Trans., 1781, p. 492. 

On the parallax of the fixed stars. 

Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 82. 

Catalogue of double stars. 

Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 112«f translation in Bod^s Jahrhuch, 1786, p. 187, 

Description of a lamp micrometer and the method of iising it. 

Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 163. 

A paper to obviate some doubts concerning the great magnifying powers used. 

Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 173. 

A letter from William Herschel, Esq., F. R. S., to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., P. R. S. 

Phil. Trans., 1783, p. 1. 

Aus einem Schreiben des Hrn. Herschel an mich [Bode], datirt London, den 13ten 

August, 1783. 
[This is a letter forwarding Herschel's memoir on the Parallax of the Fixed Stars, 

etc.] 

Bode's Jahrhuch, 1786, p. 258. 

On the diameter and magnitude of the Georgiiim Sidm, with a description of the dark 
and lucid disk and periphery micrometers. 

Phil. Trans., 1783, p. 4. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 511 

On tlio proper motion of the sun and solar system, with an aceount of several ehanges 
that have happened among the fixed stars since the time of Mr. Fl.vmsteed. 

Phil Trans., 17H:?, p. 'J47. ]3odc\i Jahrhuch, 1787, p. VdA, p. '>24. 
Astronomische Nachrichten nnd Entdecknngen ans oinem franzosischen Schreiben 
desselben an mich [Bode], datirt Datchet naho bey Windsor, den 18 May, 1784. 
[This letter is on the subject of the use of high magnifying powers, and gives a resume 
of his recent papers.] 

Bode' s Jahrhuch, 1787, ]>. 211. 

On the remarkable appearances at the polar regions of the planet Mars, the inclina- 
tion of its axis, the position of its poles, and its spheroidical figure; with a few 
hints relating to its real diameter and atmosphere. 

I'hU. Trans., 1784, p. 2r?;i. 
Account of some observations tending to investigate the construction of the heavens. 

I'hil Trans., 1784, p. 4;j7. 
[Bode's Jahriiieh, 1788, p. 246, has a summary of this paper *)y Earon von Zacii. See 

also, Bode's Jahrhuch, 1794, p. 213.] 
Catalogue of double stars. 

Phil. Trans., 178.5, p. 40. 
On the construction of the heavens. 

PhiJ. Trans., 1785, p. 213. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1788, p. 238. See also same, 1787, 
p. 213, and 1794, p. 213. 
Aus einem Schreiben des Hrn. Herschel an mich [Bode], datirt Clay Hall, nahe bey 
Windsor, den 20 Jul., 1785. 

[This is a letter forwarding two memoirs, and giving the prices of telescopes.] 

Bode's Jahrhuch, 1788, p. 254. 

Catalogue of one thousand new uebulai and clusters of stars. 

Phil. Trans., 178(), p. 457. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1791, p. 1.57, and same, 1794, p. 213. 
Investigation of the cause of that indistinctness of vision which has been ascribed to 
the smallness of the optic pencil. 

Phil. Trans., 1786, p. .590. 

Remarks on the new comet [178G, IIJ. 

Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 4. 

[Letter from Herschel to Bode on the discovery of two satellites to Uranus, dated 

Slough, 1787, Feb. 11.] 

Bode's Jahrhuch, 1790, ]>. 253. 

An account of the discovery of two satellites revolving round the Georgian planet. 

Phil Trans., 1787, p. 125. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1791, p. 255. 

An account of three volcanoes in the moon. 

Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 229. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1791, p. 255. 

Note on M. Meciiaix's comet. [1787, I.] [Added to preceding paper.] 

P/ii7. Trans., 1787, p. 232. 
On the Georgian planet and its satellites. 

Phil. Trans., 1788, p. 364. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1793, p. 104. 

Observations on a comet [1788, II.]. 

Phil. Ti-ans., 1769, p. 151. 

Catalogue of a second thousand of new uebuhe and clusters of stars, with a few in- 
troductory remarks on the construction of the heavens. 
Phil. Trans., 1789, p. 212. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1793, p. 150. Also same, 1794, p. 150. 
Account of the discovery of a sixth and seventh satellite of the planet Satui-n, with 
remarks on the construction of its ring, its atmosphere, its rotation on an axis, 
and its spheroidical figure. 
Phil. Trans., 1790, p. 1. Bodes Jahrhuch, 1793, p. 239; same, 1796, p. 88; 1797, 
p. 249. 



512 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

On tlie satellites of the planet Saturn, and the rotation of its ring on an axis. 

Fhil. Trans., 1790, p. 427. 
Oa nebulous stars properly so called. 

Phil. Trans., 1791, p. 71. Bode's Jahriuch, 1801, p. 128. 
On the ring of Saturn and the rotation of the fifth satellite upon its axis. 

Phil. Trans., 1792, p. 1. Bode^s Jahrbuch, 1796, p. 83. 
Miscellaneous observations : 
[Account of a comet], ]}. 23 [1792, I.]. 
[On the periodical appearance of o Ceti}, p. 24. 
[On the disappearance of the .55th Herculis'], p. 26. 
[Remarkable phenomenon in an eclipse of the moon], ji. 27. 

Phil. Trans., 1792, p. 23. 
Observations on the planet Venus. 

Phil. Trans., 1793, p. 201. 
Observations of a quintuple belt on the planet Sal urn. 

Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 28. Bode's Jahrhucli, 1798, p. 90. 
Account of some particulars observed during the late eclipse of the sun. [1793, Sep- 
tember 5th.] 

Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 39. 
On the rotation of the planet Saturn upon its axis. 

Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 48. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1798, p. 74. 
On the nature and construction of the sun and fixed stars. 

Plbil. Trans., 1795, p. 46. Bode's Jahrbuch, II. Suppl. Band, p. 65. 
Description of a forty-foot reflecting telescope. 

Phil. Trans., 1795, p. 347. Bode's Jahrbuch, III. Suppl. Band, p. 23<8. 
Additional observations on the comet. [1796, I.] 

Phil. Trans., 1796, p. 131. 
On the method of observing the changes that happen to the fixed stars ; Tvith some 
remarks on the stability of the light of our sun. To which is added a catalogue 
of comparative brightness for ascertaining the permanency of the luster of stars. 
Phil. Trans., 1796, p. 166. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1809, p. 201. 
On the periodical star a Herculis; with remarks tending to establish the rotary motion 
of the stars on their axes ; to which is added a second catalogue of the compara- 
tive brightness of the stars. 

Phil. Trans., 1796, p. 452. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1809, p. 201. 
A third catalogue of the comparative brightness of the stars, with an introductory 
account of an index to Mr. Flamsteed's observations of the fixed stars, con- 
tained in the second volume of the Historia Ccelestis. To which are added sev- 
eral useful results derived from that index. 

Phil. Trans., 1797, p. 293. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1810, p. 143. 
Observations of the changeable brightness of the satellites of Jupiter, and of the 
variation in their apparent magnitudes, with a determination of the time of their 
rotatory motions on their axes. To which is added a measure of the diameter of 
the second satellite, and an estimate of the comparative size of all the four. 

Phil. Trans., 1797, p. 332. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1801, p. 103. 
On the discovery of four additional satellites of the Georgium Sidus. The retrograde 
motion of its old satellites announced, and the cause of their disappearance at 
certain distances from the planet explained. 

Phil. Trans., 1798, p. 47. Bode's Jahrbuch, l&Ol, p. 231. 
A fourth catalogue of the comparative brightness of the stars. 

Phil. Trans., 1799, p. 121. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1810, p. 143. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITIXGS. r)lo 

On tlio power of pcuetratins into space l>y telescopes, with a eoniparative ac-lennina- 
tion of the extent of that power in natural vision, and in telescopes of various 
sizes and constructions, illustrated by select observations. 

Phil. Trau^., 1800, pp. 40-85. Bodc's Jahrbiich, 1>04, p. ~.U. 
Investigation of the powers of the prismatic colors to heat and ill.uninate objects, 
with remarks that prove the dilferent refrani,nbility of radiant heat. To wh.ch 
is added an inquiry into the method of viewing the sun advantageously with 
telescopes of large apertures and high magnifying powers. 

riiil. TmuH., 1800, pp. 2r)5-233. Bodc's Jahrhuvh, 1801, p. fcJ. 
Experiments on the refrangibility of the invisible rays of the sun 

rial. Trans., 1800, p]). -284-202. Bodc's Jahrhuch, lfc04, p. bJ. 
Experiments on the solar and on the terrestrial rays that occasion heat with a com- 
'^^ative view of the laws by which light and heat, or rather the rays t'- occasion 
Lm, are snlrject, in order to determine whether they are the same or dUlercnt. 
Fkil. Trans., 1800, pp. 293-32G, 437-r/33. Gilbert AnnaL, X. (1-Ul), pp. b.-.ft, 
same, XM. (1803), pp. 521-54(5. 
Observations tending to investigate the natnrc of the snn, in or^er to And the causes 
or sylnptoms of its variable\.mission of light and heat, with remarks on the nse 
that mav possibly be drawn from solar observations. i i anr ,. 1 1 3 

Phil. tLs., 1801, pp. 20.5-313. Pod<^s Jahrhack, 180.5, p. 218, and IbOG, p. 113. 
Ueber den 7 Nebelileck der Isten Classe des Herschel'schen Verzeichniss, nnd liber 
"" Cer. nnd PaUas, vom Herrn Doctor H..SC... ^^^J ^-j^C^^^n. 

Additional observations tending to investigate the symptoms of the variable emission 
of the Ih^ht and heat of the sun, with trials to set aside darkening glasses by trans- 
Jit^igie solar rays throngh licinids, and a few remarks to ..move objeet.o,.s 
Siat might be made against some of the argumentsc<nit.ined ^^^^^^^^^^r 

Phil. Trans., IbOl, pp. .io-l-oM^. 

Observations on the two lately discovered celestial ^"'f-t^^ ;^';;^f «^;, l,o. 
Phil. Trans., 1802, pp. 213-232. Nklwlson Journal, I\ . (Is08), pp. UO l.>«>, 
148 
Catalogue of five hnndred new nehnUB, nebnlous stars, planetary nebuhe, and clusters 
of stars, with remarks on the construction of the heavens. 

Phil. Trans., 1802, pp. 477-528. Bode^s Jahrhnch, IsO., p. 113. 

Observations of the transit of ^.c.u-, over the snn's disk, to ^^^^^^^ ^ ^^- 
vestigation of the canses which often prevent tl^^-^j;::^;- ^;;;:Si..32. 

Aceonnt of the changes which have happened .nring the ^^^^^^^^^IJ^Zl^^;; 
relative situation of double stars, with an investigation oi the cause to h.cU y 

are owing. ^^^_^ 2^,.,„,., isn3, pp. 339-332. /^o.Z.Wa/.rZ^^cft, 1808, pp. 154-178. 

Continuation of the aceonnt of the changes that have happened in the relative situa- 
tion of double stars.^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^_ ^_^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^,,^,,,,^,^^ ,308, p. 220. 

Ans einem Schreiben des Herrn Doctor HEnscim., datirt Slough bey Windsor, den 

tRe^'^^; theory of the relation between the solar radiation and tl>e price of 
^^«^*-] JSodes Jahrhurh, 1608, p. 220. 

Experiments fbr ascertaining how.irtelescopeswillemibh.,. 

angles, and to distinguish the real from the «1'"^ '""^ '^ ~^^^ 
terrestrial objects, with an application of the results of those expeu 

• S. Mis. 31 33 



514 BIBLIOGKAPHY OF HEESCHEL's WRITINGS. 

series of observations on the nature and. magnitude of Mr. Harding's lately dis- 
covered star lJu7io, (1804)]. 

Fhil. Trans., 1805, pp. 31-70. 

On the direction and velocity of the motion of the sun and solar system. 

Fhil. Trans., 1805, pp. 233-256. JBode's Jahrbuch, IV. Suppl. Baud, p. G7. 
Observations ou the singular figure of the planet Saturn. 

Fhil. Trans., 1805, pp. 27.2-280. Bod^s Jahrhuch, 1809, p. 197. 
Ou the quantity and velocity of solar motion. 

Fkil. Trans., 1806, pp. 205-237. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1811, p. 224, 
Observations and remarks ou the figure, climate, and atmosphere of Saturn and its 
ring. 
Fhil. Trans., 1806, pp. 455-437. Gilbert Annal, XXXIV. (1810), pp. 82-105. 
Bode's Jahrhuch, 1810, p. 228. 
Experiments for investigating the cause of the colored concentric rings discovered by 
Sir I. Newton between two object glasses laid one upon another. 
Fhil. Trans., 1807, pp. 180-233. Annal. de Chimie, LXX. 1809, pp. 154-181, 
293-321 ; sa7ne, LXXI. 1809, pp. 5-40. 
Observations on the nature of the new celestial body [ Vesta'] discovered by Dr. Olbers, 
and of the comet which was expected to appear last January in its return from 
the sun. [180G, II.] 

Fhil. Trans., 1807, pp. 260-2G6. 

Observations of a comet [1807, I.] made with a view to investigate its magnitude and 
the nature of its illumination, to which is added an account of a new irregularity 
lately perceived in the apparent figure of the planet Saturn. 
Fhil. Trans., 1803, pp. 14.5-163. Gilbert Annal., XXXVI. (1810), pp. 389-393, 
Zach Monat. Corresp., XX. (1809), pp. 512-514. 

Continuation of experiments for investigating the cause of colored concentric rings 
and other apjjearances of a similar nature. 

Fhil. Trans., 1809, pp. 259-302. 

Supplement to the first and second part of the paper of experiments for investigating 
the cause of colored concentric rings between object glasses, and other appear- 
ances of a similar nature. 

Phil. Trans., 1810, pp. 149-177. Gilbert Annal, XLVI., 1814, pp. 22-79. 
Astronomical observations relating to the construction of the heavens, arranged for 
the purjiose of a critical examination, the result of which appears to throw some 
new light upon the organization of the celestial bodies. 

Fhil. Trans., 1811, pp. 269-336. Journ. de Fhys., LXXV., 1812, pp. 121-167. 
Observations of a comet, with remarks on the construction of its different parts. 
[1811, L] 
Fhil. Trans., 1812, pp. 11.5-143. Journ. de Fhys., LXXVII., 1813, pp. 125-135. 
Zach Monat. Corresp., XXVIII.^ 1813, pp. 455-409, 558-568. Bodv's Jahrbuch, 
1816, p. 185. 
Observations of a second comet, with remarks on its construction. [1811, II.] 

Fhil. Trans., 1812, pp. 229-237. Mcholson Journ., XXXV., 1813, pp. 193-199. 
Bode's Jahrhuch, 1816, p. 203. 
Astronomical observations relating to the sidereal part of the heavens, and its con- 
nection with the nebulous part,arrauged for the purposeof a critical examination, 
Fhil. Trans., 1814, pp. 248-284. Bode's Jahrhuch, 1818, pp. 97-118. 
A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian Flanet, including a passage 
through the node of their orbits, with an introductory account of the telescopic 
apparatus that has been used on this occasion, and a final exposition of some cal- 
culated particnlars deduced from the observations. 

Fhil. Trans., 1815, pp. 293-362. Bode's Jahrbuch, 1819, pp. 232-242. 

». 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS 515 

Astronomical observations and experiments tending to investigate tlio local arrange- 
ment of the celestial bodies in space, and to determine the extent and couditiou 
of the Milky Way. 

Phil. Trans., 1817, pp. 302-331. Bode's Jahriiich, 1821, p. 149. 

Astronomical observations and experiments selected for the purpose of ascertaining 
the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of investigating how far the power 
of our telescopes may bo expected to reach into space, when directed to ambigu- 
ous celestial objects. ^^^^ ^^„ ^^„ 

Phil. Trans., 1818, pp. 429-470. 

On the places of one hundred and forty-five new double stars (1821). 

Mem. Po)/. Ast. Soc, I., 1822, pp. lGG-181. 



III.— List of works relating to the life and writlngs of 
William Herschel. 

[aRUAXGED ALPnABETICVLLY BY AUTHORS.] 

[S. B. In general, tlio notices of Ms life to be found in encyclopaedias of biography, etc., are not in. 

eluded bere.l 

Arago (F.) 

Analyse do la vie et des travans do Sir William Herschel [from Annuairc du 
hureaii des Longitudes, 1842]. Paris, 1843. 18mo. 

[See also the Annuaire for 1834, for an account of IIerschel's work on 
double stars.] 

Arago (F.) 

Biographies of Distinguished Scientific Men. Translated by Admiral W. H. 
"smyth, Rev. B. Powell, and Robert Grant, Esq. Herschel. 

First series, p. 258. Boston, 1859. 8vo. 

Arago (F.) 

Herschel. [Translated from the French.] 
Smithsonian Report. 1870, p. 197. 8vo. 

Auwers (A.) ^ ^ , , ., . 

William Herschel's Verzeichnisse von Nebelflecken und Sternhaufen hearbeitet 

von A. Auwers. 

From the Konigsierg Observations. 18G2. Folio. 

Bessel (F. W.) ^ ,^^^ ^. 

Sir William Herschel. [From the Kdnigslcrger AUgemeine Zeitung, 1, 1843, J\o. 
37, et seq., reprinted in his] Ahhandlungen, vol. iii., p. 4G8. Leipzig, 1876. 4to. 

Bruhns (C.) ,. __ „ 

Karoline Lucretia Herschel, aus der AUgcm. Detitschen Biographie. 18//, 8vo. 

D' Arrest (H. L.) ^ ■ , n^ .=« 

Verzeichniss von Sir William Herschel's Nebelflecken erster und vierter Clause, 
aus den Beobachtungen berechnet und anf 1850 reducirt. 

Abliandlungen d. Math. Phys. Classe der K. Sachs. Gesell. d. Wmenschaften 
Band iii [1857] p. 359. 

Dunkin (E.) • 

Obituary Notices of Astronomers, p. 8G. 

Sir William Herschel, K. C. H., F. R. S., 1738, 1822. 
London, 1879. 12mo. 



516 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEESCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Fdtis (F. J.) 

Biograpbie iiniverselle des musiciens [article, Herschel.] 
Paris, 1835-37. 8vo. 

Forbes (J. D.) 

Sir William Herschel [being § 2 of Dissertation Ti.] 

■ 'Encyclopaedia Britauuica, eigbtb edition. Vol. I, Dissertations, p. 838. 

Fourier (J.) 

£loge bistoriqne do Sir William Herschel, prononc6 dans la stance publiqu© 
de I'Academie royale des sciences le 7 Juin, 1824. 

Hisioire de V Acadeniie liotjale des Sciences de VInstiiut de France, tome vi., 
annve 1823, j). Ixi. 

Harding (C. L.) 

Des Hen-n Dr. Herschel's Untersucbungen liber die Natur der Sonnenstrablen, 
aus dem engliscben Ubersetzt. Erstes Heft. [Translations from Phil. Trans., 
1800.] Celle, 1801. 16mo. 

Herscliel (Carolina.) 

An Acconnt of a new Comet. [1786, II.] 

PMl. Trans., 1787, vol. 77, p. 1. 

Herschel (Carolina.) 

An Account of tbe Discovery of a Comet. [1793, I.] 

Fhil. Trans., 1794, vol. 84, p. 1. 

Herscliel (Carolina.) 

An Account of tbe Discovery of a Comet. [1795, II.] 

Fhil. Trans., 1796, vol. 86, p. 131. 

Herschel (Carolina.) 

Catalogue of Stars taken from Flaaisteed's observations contained in tbe second 
volume of bis Historia Cajlestis, and not inserted in tbe Britisb Catalogue; to 
wbicb is added a collection of errata wbicb sbould be noticed in tbe same 
volume ; witb remarks by W. Herschel. London, 1793. Folio. 

Herschel (Carolina.) 

Verzeicbniss von 74 Sternen Flamsteeds von denen keine BeobacMungen in der 
Hist. Cwl. Brit, vorkommen. 

Hade's Jahrluvh, 1806, p. 255. 

[Herschel (Carolina.)] 

[Notice of ber life. ] 
Montlihj Notices Boy. Ast. Soc. vol. 8, p. 64 ; also Memoirs Boy. Ast. Soc, vol. 
17, p. 120. 

Herschel (Carolina.) 

Memoir and Correspondence of Carolixe Herschel. By Mrs. John Herschel. 
Witb portraits. Loudon, 1876. 12mo. 

Herschel (J. F. V/.) 

Article Telescope, in Encyclopaedia Britannica, eigbtb edition. [Tbis article (illus- 
trated) gives most of tbe important features of Sir William Herschel's 
manner of grinding and polisbing specula.] 

Herschel (J. F. W ) 

Catalogue of Nebulas and Clusters of Stars. [General and systematic reduction 
of all Sir W. Herschel's observations brougbt into connection ■witb all otber 
similar ones.] 

P/i (7. Trans., 1864. Page 1. 4to. 
Herschel (J. F. W.) 

A synopsis of all Sir William Herschel's micrometrical measurements, etc., of 
Double Stars, togetber witb a Catalogue of tbose Stars . . , for 1880. 
Mem. Boy. Ast. Soc, vol. xxsv, p. 21. London, 1867. 4to. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 517 

Herschel (J. F. W.) 

Additional Identifications of Double Stars in the Synoptic Catalogues of Sir^Vii,- 
lia:\i KERSCnEL's Jlicrometrital :Mea.sui-euieuts, etc. 

Montld)/ Notices Roy. Ast. Soc, vol. xxviii, p. 151. London, 18GS. 8vo. 

Herschel (Sirs. John,) 

Memoir and Correspondence of Carolixk Herschel. "Witli portraits. London, 
187(). 12mo. 

Herschel (W.) 

[Solution of a prize question.] 
Ladies' Diary, 1779. 

Herschel (W.) 

The favorite Ecclio Catcli . . . and the preceding Glee [by S. Leach]. To 
wliicli is added tlio . . . Catcli Sung by Three Old Women . . . iu 
the Pantomime called "The Genius of Kouseuse" [l)y H. IIarrln'gton]. 
London, 1780 (?) Obi. folio. 

Herschel (W.) 

(JUttliujcn Magazin dor JVissenchaften und Lilcratur (1783), vol. iii, p. 4. LICUTEX- 
BERG AND FoRSTEU, Editors. 
[Letter from Herschel, giving a brief account of his life.] 

Herschel (W.) 

I. Manuscrij^fs in possession of the Eoyal Society. 

1. A series of register sheets in which are entered up all the observations of 
each nebula, copied verhaiim from the sweeps. 2. A similar set of register 
sheets for Messier's nebuhe. 3. A general index of the 2,508 ncbulai of W. 
Herschel ; given the class and number, to find the general number. 4. An 
index list; given the general . number, to find the class and number. 5. A 
more comi)]ete list, like 4. 6. A manuscript catalogue of all the ncbuL» and 
cliisters, reduced to 1800 and arranged in zones of l'^ in polar distance ; by 
Miss Carolina Herschel. 7. The original sweeps with the 20-foot re- 
flector at Slough, in three small quarto and four folio vols, of MSS. 

II. Manuscripts in 2)ossession of the Royal Astronomical Society. 

This library contains "the whole series of autograph observations of each 
double star [observed by Herschel], brought together on separate sheets, 
by Sir William Herschel and Miss Carolina Herschel." 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Some account of the life and writings of Williaai Herschel, Esq. [With a por- 
trait. ] 

The European Magazine and London Review for January, 1785. 8vo. 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Edinburgh Revieiv, vol. i, p. 426. 

[A review of Herschel's memoir "Observations on the two lately discov- 
ered bodies," from P/ii J. Tra/is., 1802.] 

[Herschel (W.)] 

" Sir AViLLiAM Herschel, from a London paper." 

[This is a short obituary notice "furnished by a gentleman well acqiiainted 

with Sir William and his family, and its accuracy may bo relied on.'"] 
Niles' Register, vol. 23, p. 154, November 9, 1822. 8vo. 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Obituary: Sir William Herschel, Knt., LL.D., F.R.S. 

The Gentleman's Magazine and Historical Chronicle, vol. xcii, 1822, p. 274. Svo. 

[Eersohel (W.)] 

Annual Register, 1822, p. 289. 8vo. 



518 BIBLIOGEAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 

[Herschel (W.)] 

W. Hekschel's Siimmtliche Scliriften. Erster Band. Ueb er den Ban dog Him- 
mels. Mit 10 Kupfertafeln. [Edited by J. W. Pfaff, A second edition -vras 
published in 1850. ] Dresden and Leipzig, 1823. Bvo. 

[Herschel (W.)] 

New Tork Mirror, vol. vi, 1829-'30, p. 388. 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Living Age, vol. ii, p. 125, (1844). 8vo. [Reprinted from Chamhcrs' Journal.} 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. 31, p. 438. Bvo. 

[Review of Arago's "Analyse de la Vie et des Travanx de Sir William 
Herschel."] 

[Herschel (W.)] 

Arago's Life of Herschel. 

EciectiG Museum, vol ii, -p. 556. [Reprinted from tbo Foreign Quarterly Re- 
view, vol. 31.] 

Eolden (E. S.) 

On tbo inner satellites of Uranus. [Reduction of Sir William Herschel's ob- 
servations. ] 
rroceedings Amer. Assn. Adv. Science, August, 1874, p. 49, 8vo. 

Holden (E. S.) 

Index Catalogue of Books and Memoirs relative to nebulce, clusters, etc. Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, ISTo. 311, pp. 19-38. [Abstracts of Sir William 
Herschel's memoirs (on nebulae) in the Philosophical Transactions.} 
Washington, 1877. 8vo. 

Holden (E. S.) 

Sir William Herschel, his life and works. New York, 18S1. 12 mo. (with a 
portrait. ) 
Krafft (J. G. F.) 

Kurao Nachricht von dem beriihmten Astronomen Herschel und einigen seiner 
Entdeckuugen. 
Ba5Teuth,»1787. 8vo. 

Peirce (C. S.) 

Photometric Researches. [A reduction of Herschel's observations on the com- 
I)arative brightness of the stars.] Annals Harvard College Observatory, vol. ix. 
Leipzig, 1878. 4to. 

Sommer (G. M.) 

William Herschel * * * ueber den Bau desHimmels; drei abhandlungen 
aus dem englischen uebersetzt, nebst einem authentischen Auszug aus KiVXTS 
allgemeiner NaturgeschLchte und Theorie des Himmels. 
Konigsberg, 1791. Bvo. 

Struve (W.) 

£tudes d'astronomie stellaire. Sur la voie lact^e et sur la distance des ^toiles 
fixes. [P. 24 et seq. contains an elaborate review of the construction of the 
heavens according to Herschel.] St. Petersburg, 1847. Bvo. 

Wolf (R,) 

AVilliam Herschel. Zui-ich, 1867. Bvo. 
Zach (F. von.) 

Dr. William Herschel [translated from Pullic Characters and printed in Zach's 
Monatlich Corrcsjiondcnz, 1802, part I, p. 70, et seq.} 



BIBLIOGRAPnY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 519 

IV. — List of the published portraits of Willia:m IIerschel. 

^j-/js/, Mme. DUPIERY. EiHjravcr, Tii6:!^KRT.. 8vo. Early iiortiuit. Some coi)ies in 

red. Profile. 
Artist, F. Reiiburg. Engraver, F. W. Boi.lixger. 8vo. Late portrait. 

Artht, ? i'jiryjYU'tT, C. Westermayr. 8vo. Medalliou. 

^r/js<, C. Brand. Engraver, ? 8vo. l^itbograpli. 

Artist, ? Engraver, J. Sewell. 8vo. Profile, 1785. 

Artist, ? Engraver, ? 8vo. Profile. 

Artist, F. BoXNEViLLE. Engraver, F. Bon'XEVIlle. 8vo. Profile. 

Artist, J. Russell, R. A. Engraver, E. ScRiVEX. vSvo. Enj^raved from a crayon in 

tlie iiossessiou of liis son, and i)ublislied by the S. D. U. K. in the Gallery of Por- 
traits, vol. 5. 
Artist, ? Engraver, ? 8vo. European Magazine, .Ian., 1785. This is a 

bust in profile showing tlie left sidt; of the faee. 
Artist, ? Engraver, Thomson. Svo. Published by Caxton, 18-2:>. This must 

have been engraved before 181C), since the legend is William IIerschel, LL. D., 

F. R. S. 
Artist, Lady Gordon. From the painting by Abbott in the National Portrait Gallery. 

Engraver, Joseph Broavx. Svo. Published in memoir of Caroline IIerschel. 

This is of the date 1788, or thereabouts. 

Artist, ? Engraver, C. MvLhiiR. 4to. Medallion. 17S5 (? 

Artist, ? Engraver, H. Pixhas. 4to. Legend in Russian. 

Artist, Baisch. Engraver, ? 4to. Lithograph. 

Artist, H. Grevedox. Engraver, ? Fol. Lithograph. 

Artist, ? Engraver, F. Muller. Fol. 

Artist, Abbott. Engraver, Ryder. Fol. 1788. 

Artist, J. Boilly. Engraver, ? Fol. 182'i. Lithograph. 

Artist, '? Engraver, J. Godby. Fol. 

K. "W. S. LuTANT[DGE, Esq., F. R. A. S., has an original seal with a head of Sir 'WILUA^f TTeesciiel, 
■which is shown on the title-page of this work. A cut of it has heen courteonsly furnished me by Jons 
Brownixg, Esq., E. E. A. S., etc. 

In 1787 a bust of Hekschel was made by LocKn: for Sir Tyiu.iAJi Watson. 

A picture of IIekschei. was painted by Mr. Artaud about the beginning of 1819. A portrait of 
Herschel by Abbott is in the National Portrait Gallery, London. There arc no doubt many other 
paintings in England, thougli I can find notices of these only. The Eoyal So(dety of London has nearly 
a hundred portraits of its most distinguished members, but owns none of Sir Williaji Ueuscuel. 



Y. — Synopsis of the scientific writings of William IIerschel. 

Abstracts of William Hsrschers Memoirs in tlie Philosophical Transac- 
tions of the Koyal Society of London. 

A.D. Vol. p. 

1780 70 338 Astronomical ohservitlions on the Fcriodical Star in CoUo Ceti. By Mr. 

William Herschel, of Bath, communicated by Dr. Watson, jr., 

of Bath, F. R. S. Read May 11, 1780. 
338 This star is a Ceti, and vras first observed by David Fabricius, Angust 

13, 159G. 

338 Herschel's observations begin 1777, October 20. 

339 /? Ceti is brighter than a, whicli indicates a change since Bayer. 

340 2' (of arc) "is hardly sufficiently large to distinguish a square from a 

circle." 

341 " The periodical star preceded a very obscure telescopic star" 1' 45". IG. 



Ilerscliel, 


V/. 


A. D. Vol. 


p. 


1780 70 


341 




342 




34-2 




342 




343 



520 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Synopsis of the Weitixgs of — Continued. 

This measure repeated V 50". 47. 

Tliis measure repeated 1' 53". 437. 

This measure repeated 1' 50".G25. 

This measure repeated 1' 45".937. 

" Maupertuis accounts for the periodical appearances of changeable 
stars by supposing that they may he of a flat form, like Saturn's 
ring, which becomes invisible when the edge is presented to us." 

343 This star "appeared always full and round when I viewed it v/ith a 

telescope" ; this is not necessarily opposed to Maupektuis' explana- 
tion on account of the aberrations. 

344 " Keill says ' it is probable that the greatest part of this star is cov- 

ered with spots and dark bodies, some i^art thereof remaining lucid ; 
and while it turns about its axis, does sometimes shew its bright 
Ijart, sometimes it turns its dark side to us, etc.'" 

1780 70 507 Astroriommd Ohservations relating to the mountains of the Moon. By Mr. 

Herschel, of Bath. Communicated by Dr. Watsox, juu., of Bath, 

F. R. S. Read May 11, 1780. 
508 The method used by Hevelius and others to find the height of a 

mountain in the Moon explained. Figure 1. 
509-512 Quotations from Galileo, Hevelius, Lalantje, Fergusox, and 

Keill. 

512 Explanation of the method used by Herschel. 

513 The instrument used was a Newtonian reflector 6 feet 8 inches focal 

length, (usual), magnifying power 222 diameters, the aperture used 
was four inches. " I believe that for distinctness of vision this in- 
strument is perhaps equal to any that was ever made." 

514 Observations in detail from November 30, 1779, to February 19, 1780. 

517 " From these observations I believe it is evident that the height of 

the lunar mountains in general is greatly overrated; and that when 
we have excepted a few, the generality do not exceed half a mile 
in their perpendicular elevation." 

518 " One caution, I would beg leave to mention to those who may use 

the excellent 3^ feet refractors of Mr. Dollond. The admirable 
quantity of light, which on most occasions is so desirable, will prob- 
ably give the measure of the jirojection somewhat larger than the 
true, if not guarded against byjiroper limitations jflaced before the 
object-glass." 

519 Continuation of the same observations 1780, March 11— March 16. 
522 Additional memoranda of the manner in which Mr. Herschel made 

his observations taken from a letter of his to the Astronomer Royal. 
Plate XI contains tive figures (diagrams) to illustrate the methods of 
observation. 

1781 71 115 Astronomical Oiserrations on the rotation of the planets ronnd their axes, 

made with a view to determine tvhethcr the earth's diurnal motion is jxr- 
fectly equable. In a letter from Mr. William IIeeschel, of Bath, to 
William Watson, M. D., F. R. S. Read January 11, 1781. 

115 While every one of the motions of the earth that arise from the actions 

of the sun, moon, and planets, etc., have been investigated by as- 
tronomers, there is one motion which has hitherto escaped the 
scrutiny of observers — the diurnal rotation round its axis. 

116 The reason why this has not been looked into is iirobably the diffi- 

culty of finding a proper standard to measure it by ; since it is itself 
the standard by which we measru'e all the other motions. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 521 

Hersehel, "W.: Synopsis of tiik Witirixcjs of— ContimnMl. 
A.D. Vol. r. 

1781 71 nC) "\Vc liavo no cause 1o suspect any very material periodical inequality. 
IIG Aberration would forever have remained a secret to us if it had not 

been found out by other methods than that of time-keepers. 
117 No time-keeper will measure such equal portions of time as we require 

to compare the diurnal motion of the earth to. 
117 The diurnal rotation of the earth being at least tolerably equable, 
that of the other planets is likely to Ijc also ; and this suggested tho 
thought of estimating tlie diurnal motion of one planet very exactly 
by that of another, making each the standard of the other. 
117 Such a test might detect a retardation occasioned by some resistance 
of a very subtle medium in which t lie heavenly bodies perhaps move, 
or any acceleration from some cause or other. 

117 The common account of the diurnal rotations of the planets was much 

too inaccurate for this critical puri)osc, and new observations were 
required. 

118 Mars was tho most suitable planet for the ])urj)ose, as the dark spots 

on Jupiter change their places. These may be sup-posed to be largo 
black congeries of vapors and clouds swinnning in tho atmosphere 
of Jupiter. 

118 The bright spots also, though they nuiy adhere firndy to the body oi Ju- 
piter, may undergo some change of situation by being differently cov- 
ered or uncovered, on one side or the ot her, 1 )\ a Iterat ions in the belts. 

118 Tiie same bright sp^t, not suspected of any change! of situation, gave 
by one set of observations 9'' .")1"' -loMi, and by another set O'' 50™ 48^ 

118 The analogy of the trade-winds on the earth may account for all tho 

irregularities of Jupiter s revol ut ions deduced li'om spots on the disc 

119 If, with Cassixi, we suppose his rotal iou-t imc; to be 9'' oG'", thou some 

spots that I have observed must have been carried through about 
60° of Jupiter's equator in 22 of his days. This very large velocity 
in the clouds is not unparalleled by what has ha])i)ened in our own 
atmosphere. 
119 The spots on Mars are of a different nature. Their constant and de- 
termined shai)e, as well as remarkable color, show them to be per- 
manent, and fastened to the body of the planet. 

119 Suppose that we can determine wheiher a spot on the disc ai Mars is 

or is not in the lino which joins the center of the eartli and the cen- 
ter of that idanet to half an hour's time with certainty, in this case 
wo shall in 30 days have tho revolution true to a minute, and in 
three mouths to 20^ An interval of about 780 days (the next oppo- 
sition) will give the diurnal motion true to about 2", etc. 

120 Ilad such observations as these been made 2000 or 200 years ago, we 

might now, by repeating them, most probal)ly become acquainted 
with some curious minute changes that may have hitherto passed 
unnoticed. 

120 The dilfcrencc between the polar and equatorial diameters of tho 

earth is Ijy actual measurement :?(!.9 miles, by theory 3:3.8, from 
which it should seem probable that when tho earth assumed tho 
present form tho diurnal rotation was somewhat quicker than it is 
at present. But I would not lay much stress upon this argument. 

121 Tho telescopes used were of my own construction, and are a 20-feet 

Newtonian reilector, a 10-feet reflector of the same form, aiid the 7- 
feet reilector already mentioned {Fhih Traus. 1780, p. 513). 
121 The time was determined with a brass quadrant of 2 feet radius, car- 
rying a telescope magnifying 40 diameters. 



522 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEESCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis of the Wkitixgs of — Contiuucd. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1781 71 121 Two very good clocks were used; one haviug a deal pendulum rod 

and one a compounded one of brass and iron, both, having a i)roi)er 

contrivance not to stoxj when winding up. The rate of going of my 

clocks I determined by the transit of stars. 
121 Observations on Jiqnter in the year 1778. February 24 — April 12. 

(See Plate V, Figs. 1 to 12, drawings oiJiipitcr.) 

123 Observations on Jnpilcr in 1779. April 14— April 23. See Plate V, 

Fig. 13 [misprinted 18]. 

124 Comparing the observations two and two the following times of one 

synodical revolution : 

gu 54m 5Gs_4 from an interval of 17 revolutions; 

91" 55™ 20^ from an interval of 12 revolutions ; 

9'» 55™ 24^ from an interval of 15 revolutions ; 

gh 55m 4s_(5 from an interval of 41 revolutions; 

gh 55m 403 from au interval of 1 revolution ; 

9I1 54m 5gs,2 from au interval of 29 revolutions ; 

gh 54m 53s_4 fi'om an interval of 26 revolutions ; 

gh 51m 35s from an interval of 12 revolutions ; 

gh 5|m 45s (5 from au interval of 12 revolutions ; 

gh 50m 483 from an interval of 10 revolutions ; 

gu 51m igs_4 from an interval of 22 revolutions; combining the 
two i^recediug. 
126 These several results are so various that it is evident that Jupiter is 
not a iiroper planet for this critical purpose. This great variety 
cannot proceed from iuaccuracy in the observations; for, in my 
opinion, it is not possible to make a mistake in the position of a spot 
which shall amount to 5 minutes of time, as was i)i"oved by the ob- 
servation of April 23, 1779, 
126 The synodical revolutions have not been reduced to sidereal ones. 
126 By a comparison of the different jieriods it ajopears that a spot grad- 
ually performs its revolutions in less time than it did at first. Ex- 
amples of this are given. 

126 This is consonant with the theory of equatorial winds. 

127 Observat ions on Mars in the year 1777. (April 8 — April 27. ) See Plate 

VI, Figs. 14 — 19, drawings of Mars. 

128 Observations on Mars in the year 1779. (May 9 — June 17.) Figs. 

20 — 23, drawings of Mars. 
130 Comparing the observations of 1779 two and two the periods are : 
24H 3sra ls.5 from an interval of 2 revolutions ; 
241134m Is. 5 from an interval of 2 revolutions; 
2411 38m 5s.g from au interval of 36 revolutions ; 
2411 38m 554 from an interval of 38 revolutions ; 
241^ 38™ 20^3 from an interval of 34 revolutions. 
_ 131 Method of reducing synodic levolutions to sidereal (see Fig. 24, dia- 
gram). 
133 The sidereal periods from observations of 1777 and 1779 are: 
24i> 39'" 23^03 from an interval of 768 revolutions ; 
24'! 39™ 1S«.94 from an interval of 768 revolutions; 
2i^ 39™ 23^04 from an interval of 763 revolutions. 



134 24'^ 39™ 21^.67 the adopted sidereal revolution of Mars on his axis. 

[Proctor's value, 24'' 37'" 22^715.] 



BIBLIOGSAPHY OF nERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 523 

Herscliel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A.D. Vol. F. ^ . ^ , . , 

1781 71 134 Cousklcration of tlireo sources of possible error: I, a mistake in the 
whole number of revolutions; II, a mistake in estimating the time 
■when a spot conies to a certain place ; III, the [determination of 
the] time may be in error, 

135 A mistake in the whole revolutions would have maile an error of 1'' in 

the concluded rotation time, and the agreement of tlie three results 
shows that no such mistake has been made. 
The second cause of error is of some force. An error of 10™ is not 
likely, as is shown by the results of some experiments. These wero 
made by placing dots within circles drawn on paper, the (eccentric) 
positions of the dots corresponding to positions of a spot on Mars, 
10, 15, and 20 minutes distant from his centre. These were shown 
to'various persons, who all agreed in locating the dots on the proper 
side of the centre. 

136 The time was satisfactorily determined in 1779, but in 1777 not so 

much so, as I was then not provided with an altitude instrument. 

136 Allowing for this, the uncertainty of the deduced rotation period is 

estimated at not above 2^34. 

137 An ephemeris of the times of appearances of a dark spot on Mars has 

been calculated for 1781 [and is given, p. 138]. 

138 Observation of the beginning and ending of the solar eclipse of June 

24, 1778. 

1781 71 492 Account of a Comet. [The planet rra» us.] By Mr. Heksciikl, F. R. 
S., communicated by Dr. Watsox, juu., of Bath, F. R. S. Read 
April 26, 1781. 

492 "On Tuesday, March 13 [1781], between 10 and 11 in the evening, 
while I was examining the small stars in the neighborhood of II 
Gmiinorum, I perceived one that appeared visibly larger than the 
rest Beino- struck with its uncommon magnitude, I compared it to 
R Geminornm and the small star in the quartilo between Auriga 
and Gemini, and finding it so much larger than either of them, sus- 
pected it to be a comet." 

492 The magnifying power used -when I first saw the comet was .2.. 
By applying higher powers (460 and 932) the diameter of the comet 
increased in proportion to the power, while the diameters of the 
stars to which I compared it were not increased in the same ratio. 

494 Measures of the comet's diameter (March 17, April 18) ; the measures 
varyfrom3"53'"to5"20'". _ 

494 -By experience I have found that the aberration or indistinctness 
o;casioned by magnifying much, provided the object be still left 
sufficiently distinct, is rather to be put up Avith than the power^to 
be reduced when the angles to be measured are extremely small. 

496 Distance of the comet from certain telescopic stars. [See diagrams ot 

these stars and the comet in Plate XXIV, 1-6-] 

497 Position-angles. 

498 Miscellaneous observations and remarks. i •.„ «„i.;f 
March 19: It moves according to the order of the signs, and its orbit 

declines but very little from the echptic. 
April 6: The comet appeared perfectly sharp at the edges and ex- 
tremely well defined. 

498 Remarks on the path of the comet. mi 

499 The field of view was bright, the micrometer-thread biacK. 



524 'BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEESCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herscliel, V/.: Synopsis of the Weitixgs of— Continued, 

A. D. Yol. p. 

1781 71 500 Desci'iption of a Micrometer for taking the angle of jDosition. (See 

Plate XXVI, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4.) 
This is the modem form. 

1782 72 82 On the Parallax of the Fixed Stars, by Mr. Herschel, F. R. S. ; com- 

municated by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., P. R. S. Read December 

6, 1781. 
82 The nearest of the fixed stars cannot be less than 40,000 diameters of 

the whole annual orbit of the earth distant from us. 
82 As we cannot enlarge this base, we can only endeavor to improve the 

instruments by which we measure the parallax. 

82 To measure small angles with accuracy two things are necessary: 1st, 

that the instrumeut used for the purpose should be divided with 
sufficient exactness; and 2d, that the telescoxie should have an ade- 
quate power and distinctness. 

83 The first condition is (now) practically fulfilled. The chief difficulty 

is in the optical part. To see 1" with precision requires a telescope 
of very great perfection. 

83 Even supposing the pai'allaxes of stars not to amount to single sec- 

onds, or even thirds l^"'\, the observations necessary to show this 
would still have value. 

84 The next step necessary to consider in this undertaking was the man- 

ner of putting it into execution. 
84 The method i)roposed by Galilee, and attempted by Hook, Flam- 
steed, Molineux, and Bradley, of measuring zenith distances of 
stars which pass close to the zenith, though it failed with regard 
to parallax, has been productive of the most noble discoveries of 
another nature. 

84 Br^vdley (in Phil. Trans., No. 406, p. 637) concludes that the par- 

allax of;' Draconis, or of 7; Ursw Majoris, "is not so great as one 
single second." 

85 y^ Draconis is a bright third magnitude, and the conclusion that sev- 

eral authors have reached, that the jiarallaxes of stars in general do 
not exceed \", does not appear to me to follow from the observations. 
For aught we know to the contrary, the stars of the first magnitude 
may still have a parallax of several seconds. 

86 The method of zenith distances labors under the following considera- 

ble difficulties: In the first place, the refractions; 2d, the change 
of position of the earth's axis, arising from nutation, precession, 
and other causes, is not completely settled; 3d, the aberration, 
though best known of all, may also be liable to some small errors. 

87 I shall now deliver the method I have taken and show that it is free 

from every error to which the former is liable, and is still capable 
of every improvement the telescope and mechanism of micrometers 
can furnish. 
87 Let O and E (fig. 1) be two opposite points of the earth's orbit, in the 
same plane with two stars, a and h, of unequal magnitude. Let the 
angle aOh be observed when the earth is at O, and aEZ* when the 
earth is at E. From the diflference of these angles we may calculate 
the parallax of the stars. These two stars ought to be as near each 
other as possible, and also differ as much in magnitude as we can 
find them. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 525 

Hersehel, W.: S\'^"orsiS OV the Wiutin-gs of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

17«ii 72 83 Galileo was the first who suggested this method ; but ho does not 
observe that the stars shouhl be so near to each other as thereby to 
preclude the inHuence of every cause of error. 
88 This method has been also mentioned by other authors. Dr. Lon'g 
observed y ArictLf, a Geminorum, Ononis, and y Virginia, and " was 
persuaded that they woukl be found always to remain the same." 
88 Every one of these stars are [sjc] totally improper for the purpose ; for 
the stars in y Arictis are near 10" distant, and, moreover, equal in 
magnitude. In a Geminorum the stars are near enough, but do not 
sufficiently dilier iu magnitude to shew any parallax. The stars 
in the Nebula of Orion, on account of their extreme smallness of 
distance, are still more improper than any; and those of y Viryinis 
are equal in magnitude. 

88 The magnifying powers used by Galileo and LoxG were too small, 

not above 60 or 70. 

89 From a great number of observations which I have already made on 

several double stars, especially e Bootis, it appears that we can athrm 
the annual parallax to be exceedingly small indeed ; and that there 
is a great probability of succeeding still farther in this laborioug 
but delightful research, so as to be able at last to say, not only how 
much the annual i>arallax is not but how much it really is. 

90 Discussion of the effect of refractiou on such measures. 

91 Too much has hitherto been taken for granted in optics. TMiy the 

method (of experiment) should not be more pursued in the art of 
seeing does not appear. 

92 We are told that we gain nothing by magnifying too much. I grant 

it ; but shall never believe I magnify too nnich till by experienco 
I find that I can see better with a lower power. 

92 Telescopes will in general discover more small stars the more light 

they collect, yet with a power of yS7 I cannot see the small star 
following o Aquilce, when by the same telescope it appears very 
plainly with the power of 4G0. Now in the latter case the light 
is less than the fourth part of the- former. 

93 Other similar cases noted and the names of the small stars given. 

93 Great power may be favorable in cases where two stars are close 

together. Figs. 2-5 show a Lyrw with powers 460, 2,010, 3,168, 
and 6,450 with my Newtonian reflector. 

94 A new micrometer has been invented, which will be described in a 

subsequent paper. 

94 The powers that may be used upon various double stars are different 

according to their relative magnitudes; s Bootis, for example, 
will not bear the same power as a Geminorum. 

95 I have always found a single eye-glass had much the superiority 

over a double eye-glass, both in light and distinctness. I would 
except those cases where a large field is necessary. 
95 If we would distinctly perceive and measure extremely small quan- 
tities, such as a tenth of a second, it appears that when we use a 
power of 460 this tenth of a second will be no more in appearance 
than 46", and even with a power of 1,500 will be but 2' 30", which 
is a quantity not much more than sufficient to judge well of ob- 
jects and to distinguish them from each other, such as a circle 
from a square, triangle, or jiolygon. 

2h 



526 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herscliel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

1782 72 96 [Foot-note.] By a set of experiments made in 1774 I found that I 
could discover or perceive a bright object, such as white paper, 
against the skylight when it subtended an angle of 35", but could 
only distinguish it to be a circle, and no other figure, when it ap- 
peared under an angle of 2' 24". 
96 We must look for distinctness in the perfection of the object specu- 
lum of a telescope, and if we can make the first image in the 
focus of a speculum almost as perfect as the real object, what 
should hinder our magnifying but loss of light ? 

96 The stars having light sufficient, I see no reason why we should 

limit the powers of our instruments by any theory. 

97 In this research it became necessary to look out for proper stars. I 

took some pains to find out what double stars had been recorded by 
astronomers, but my situation permitted mo not to consult exten- 
sive libraries. Nor indeed was it very material ; for, as I intended 
to view the heavens myself. Nature, that great volume appeared to 
me to contain the best catalogue upon this occasion. 
97-8 Enumeration of a few double stars which were known when this 
research began. 

98 If I should mention any observations that are difficult to be verified 

I beg the indulgence of observers. I hope it will be found that I 
have sufficiently guarded against optical illusions, and that I have 
all along had truth and reality in view as the sole object of my 
endeavors. 

99 In the observations of the distances of double stars, I have used two 

ways. Those which are extremely near to each other may be esti- 
mated by the eye in measures of their own apparent diameters. 
Such estimations are accurate, as is shown by experiments with 
circles drawn on paper near together. 

100 I have divided double stars into several classes. Class I contains the 
most difficult. 

100 These being the most delicate objects it will not be amiss to go grad- 
ually through a few preparatory steps of vision. 

100 Examples of such preparatory steps given. 

101 These double stars are a most excellent way of trying a telescope. 

101 Class II of double stars contains all those that are proper for estima- 

tions by the eye, or very delicate measures of the micrometer. See 
fig. 6 of a Geniinorum. 

102 Estimations made with one telescope cannot be compared to those 

mada Tsiih another. 
102 Whatever may be the cause of the apparent diameters of the stars, 
they are certainly not of equal magnitude with the same powers 
in different telescopes, nor of proportional magnitude Avith differ- 
ent powers of the same telescope. 

102 Class III contains all double stars more than 5" and less than 15" 

asunder. 

103 Class IV contains double stars 15" to 30" asunder. 
Class V contains double stars 30" to 60" asunder. 
Class VI contains double stars 60" and over asunder. 

103 These may serve another very important end. I will just mention it, 
though it is foreign to my present purpose. Several stars of the 
first magnitude have been observed or suspected to have a proper 
motion of their own ; hence we may surmise that our sun, with 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF nEKSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 527 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings oi" — Continuod. 

A.B. Xol. r. 

all its planets and comots, may also have a motion toward some 
partievdar point of the heavens. If this snrmiscs shonld have any 
fonndatiou it will show itself in a scries of some years in a kind 
of systematical parallax or change dnc to the motion of the whole 
solar system. 

1782 72 101 Theory of the annnal parallax of donble stars ; General Postnlata : 
1. Let the stars be supposed, one with another, to bo about the size 
of the snn. 
104 2. Let the dilference of their apparent magnitudes be owing to their 
dilferent distances, so that a star of the 2d, 3d, 4th magnitude is 2, 
3, 4 times as far off as one of the first. 

104 [Foot-note.] This is rather the order into which stars ought to be 

divided than that into which they are. And perhaps we ought to 
make an allowance for some loss which may hajipeu to the light of 
veiy remote stars in its passage through immense tracts of space 
most probably not quite destitute of some very subtle medium. 
I have usually found very small telescopic stars to be red, or inclined 
to red. 

105 Case of the parallax of stars in the ecliptic. 

106 The following general expression for the parallax of two stars : 

Let P express the total parallax of a fixed star of the first magnitude; 
M the magnitude of the largest of the two stars; m the magnitude 
of the smallest, audi? the partial parallax to be observed by the 

change in the distance of a double star ; then will j) = — ^|— • ^ 
and J) being found by observation will give us P = -^ ^^j. 

107 Cases where the stars are not in the ecliptic. 

1782 72 112 Catalogue of DoiiMe Stars. By Mr. Heeschel, F. R. S., communicated 
by Dr. Watson, juu. Read January 10, 1782. 
112 Introductory remarks. The catalogue contains, I. The names of the 
stars, etc. II. Their comparative size. III. Their colors. IV. Theij 
distances, Avhich are given several ditferent ways. Those estimated 
by the diameter can hardly be liable to an error of so much as 0".25. 
Those measured by the micrometer may have errors from 1" to 2". 
A new micrometer [Lamp-Micrometer, P. T., 1782, p. 1(53], made 
within a few months, gives measures which can be relied on to 0".l 
when a mean of three measures is taken. V. The angl(>s of position ; 
when measured they can be relied on to 2° or 3=". "VI. The dates of 

discovery. 

115 Catalogueof Double Stars; First Class [24 stars]. 

120 h Draconis : " It is in vain to look for them if every circumstance is 
pot favorable. The observer as well as the instrument must have 
been long enough out in the open air to acquire the same tempera- 
ture. In very cold weather an hour at least will be required ; but 
in a moderate temperature half an hour will be sufficient." 

122 Second Class of Double Stars I'.^d stars]. 

128 f Sagitt(B : the small star brighter with 460 than with 227 or 278. 

129 Third Class of Double Stars [46 stars]. 

131 7 DdpUni: "I suspect a motion in one of these stars. I thought it 

best not to join other observations" to those of 1779. 
136 Fourth Class of Double Stars [44 stars]. 
142 Fifth Class of Double Stars [51 stars]. 



528 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Hersehel, W.: Syxopsis of the Writings of — Continued. 
A. n. Vol. p. 

1782 72 143 t Bootis : "I suspect a motion in one of tlie stars, ■uMch another year 
or two may show." 

143 V Draconis: "From the position in Flamsteed's catalogue " we gather 
that in his time their distance was * » * *. The difference in 
the distance of the stars is so considerable that we can hardly ac- 
count for it otherwise than by admitting a proper motion in one or 
both of the stars or in our solar sj'stem ; most i^robably neither of 
the three is at rest." 

147 aLyrac: I have often measured the diameters of the fixed stars, and 
found they measured less and less the more I magnified. With a 
power of G450 I looked at this star for at least a quarter of an hour, 
* * * having experimentally found that the aberration by this 
means will appear less and less, a L^/rcc was perfectly round j its 
diameter was 0".3553. 

150 Sixth Class of Double Stars [66 stars]. 

150 o Ceti : " I can hardly doubt the motion of this star." 

157 Postscript to the Catalogue of Double Stars. 

Since delivering the paper on the Parallax of the Fixed Stars [PMl. 
Trans., 1782], in which I refer to the above Catalogue of Double Stars, 
I have recei ved a paper of Mr. M A yer's "Dc novis i n CojIo sidereo phse- 
nomenis" wherein I see that the idea of ascertaining the proper mo- 
tion of the stars by means of small stai's near large ones 1ms induced 
that gentleman before me to look out for such small stars. My view 
being that the annual x'^r^ilhi^ required stars much nearer than 

158 those that would do for Mr. Mayer's purpose, therefore I exam- 
ined the heavens with much higher powers, and looked out chiefly 
for those that were exceedingly close. The above catalogue con- 
tains 269 double stars, 227 of which, to my present knowledge, have 
not been noticed by any person. I hope they will prove no incon- 
siderable addition to the general stock, especially as there are a 
great many which are out of the reach of Mr. Mayer's and other 
mural quadrants or transit instruments. 

158 A power of 70 or 80 was not enough for the sta:s of Class I nor even 
those of Class II. 

158 In settling the relative situation of very close double stars neither Mr. 

Mayer's instrument nor his method were adequate to the purpose. 

159 Comparison of the measures of Mayer and Herschel on a Gemi- 

norum : 
"Mr. Mayer: Distance, 9". 635 from center to center; position, 23° 
14' n. preceding ; magnitude, extremely unequal. Mine: Distance, 
5". 156, diameter included ; position, 32° 47' n. preceding ; magni- 
tudes, a little unequal." [See Fig. 6, Plate IV, for a cut of the ap- 
pearance of this star with power of 460. ] 

160 I do not mean to depreciate Mr. Mayer's method ; with stars of Classes 

IV, V, VI, and some of Class III, better can hardly be wished tor ; 
it is not sufficient for stars of Class II, much less for those of Class I. 

101 I have used the expression ' ' double star " in a few instances of Class VI 
in rather an extended signification. I preferred that expression to 
any other such as comes, companion or satellite, because, in my 
opinion, it is much too soon to form any theories of small stars re- 
volving round large ones. 

162 I shall not fail to take the first opportunity for looking out for those 
of Mr. Mayer's double stars which I have not in my catalogue, 
amounting to 31, and also for [another in Connaissance des Terns]. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 529 

Herschel. W.: Synopsis of the Writixgs of— Continued. 
A. D. Yol. p. 

1782 72 163 Description of a Lamp Micrometer, and the method of using if. By Mr. 
William Heksciiel, F. R. S. Read January 'M, 1782. 

163 The imperfections of the parallel wire micrometer in taking the meas- 

ures of close double stars are [described] : let, that the measures 
must include the diamters of the stars ; 2d, the deflection of the light 
on the wires [single threads of the silk-worm were used] ; 3d, the 
uncertainty of the zero ; 4th, the imperfection of the screw ; 5th, 
the necessary illumination of the field. 

164 The Lamp-Micrometer is free from all these defects. Description and 

reference to Plato V. 
169 The powers of Herschel's telescopes were [at this time] determined 
by looking at a scale with one eye free and the other at the instru- 
ment. 

169 Description of the method of observing. 

170 "A little jjractice in this business soon makes it easy, especially to one 

who has already been used to look with both eyes open." 
Example of the measure of the position of a Herculis. 
("My telescope bears a power of 460 so well that for a twelvemonth 

past I have hardly used any other.") 

171 "A power of 932 on fine evenings is very distinct," and gives more 

than half an inch to a second on the Lamp-Micrometer. 

171 Other applications of this micrometer are to the measures of the di- 
ameters of the planets and satellites, the mountains of the moon, 
the diameters of the fixed stars, etc. 

171 Examiile of the measure of the diameter of a LyrcB [diameter 0".355]. 

171 Nov. 28, 1781. I measured the diameter of the new star [ Uramisl. 
The diameter of this "singular star" was 5". 022. 

1782 72 173 A paper to obviate some douhts concerning the great magnifying powers 
used. By Mr. Herschel, F. R. S. 
[In the form of a letter to Sir Joseph Banks, Prest. R. S.] 

173 I have the honor of laying before you the result of a set of measures 

I have taken to ascertain once more the powers of my Newtonian 
7-feet reflector. 

174 The method described. The solar focus of one of the eye-pieces was 

measured five times and found to be 1.01, 1.04, 1.09, 1.01, 1.05 in 
half-inch measure. The sidereal focus of my 7-feet speculum in the 
same measure is 170.4. The mag. power of that lens is, then, 163.8. 
This eye-lens was then comi>ared with others by measures of the 
diameter of a brass wire [details of the experiment given]. 

175 Powers as they have been called in my papers, 146, 227, 278, 460, 754, 

932, 1159, 1536 [this lens lost 8 months ago], 2010, 3168, 6450. 
Powers as they come out by this method, 163.86, 250.7, 301.8, 496.7, 
775.1, 986.7, 1179.9, , 2175.8, 2585.5, 5786.8. 

175 Description of the method formerly used to determine these powers : In 

1776 a mark of white paper exactly half an inch in diameter was 
viewed at the greatest convenient distance with the least magnifiers. 
An assistant was placed at rectangles in a field at the same distance^ 
and upon a pole there erected I viewed the magnified image of the 
half inch which was marked by my direction. The power thus ob- 
tained was corrected to reduce it to what it would bo upon infinitely 

176 distant objects. The powers of the rest of the lenses I deduced 
from this bv a camera eye-piece. [See Plate VI, figs. 1 and 2.] 

S. Mis. 31 34 



530 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of — Continued. 
Ji. D. Vol. P. 

1782 72 176 The inconvenience of the first method is that we find out how much 

the telescope should magnify rather than how much it really does 
magnify, 
177 To prevent any mistakes I wish to mention again that I have all along 
proceeded experimentally in the use of my powers, and that I do 
not mean to say I have used 6450 (or 5786) upon the planets, or even 
upon double stars. The use of high powers is a new and untrodden 
path, and in this attempt variety of new phsenomena may be ex- 
pected, therefore I wish not to be in a haste to make general con- 
clusions. I shall not fail to pursue this subject, and hope soon to 
be able to attack the celestial bodies with a still stronger armament 
which is now preparing. 

1783 73 1 A letter from William Herschel, esq., F. B. S., to Sir Joseph Banks, 

Bart., P. R. S. 
1 The name Georgium Sidus proposed for the new star discovered in 
March, 1781. lUranus.'] 

1783 73 4 On the Diameter and Magnitude of the Georgium Sidus; with a description 
of the dark and lucid disk and periphery micrometers. By William 
Herschel, Esqr., F. R. S. Read November 7, 1782. 
5 The measures of the diameter of the Georgium Sidus formerly commu- 
nicated give 4" 36^'". But not being satisfied, when I thought it 
possible to obtain much more accurate measures, I employed the 
lamp micrometer. 

5 A lucid disk and not two lucid points was really required, and the 

following a^iparatus was contrived. [Description follows.] The 

6 planet was kept by a good screw oiiposite and covering illuminated 
oiled paper disks, and the sizes of these measured. 

7 Observations on the Light, Diameter, and Magnitude of the Georgium 

Sidus. [From Oct. 22, 1781, to Nov. 4, 1782.] 

7 Oct. 22, 1781, "had a fine, bright, steady light, of the color of Jupiter, 

or aijproaching to the light of the moon." 

8 Oct. 2, 1782. "The j^lanet unexpectedly appeared bluish," while the 

oiled disk was reddish. 

9 Oct. 10, 1782, determined the magnifying power of the telescope 

again in a new way [described]. 

11 There is one cause of inaccuracy or deception in very small [close] 
measures, long suspected but never yet sufficiently investigated. 
A dispersion of th© rays of light in the atmosphere may be admit- 
ted ; a concentration may also take place. 

11 Oct. 12, 1782. The planet visible to the naked eye. 

11 Oct. 13, 1782. "I perceived no flattening of the polar regions." 

12 Nov. 4, 1782. "I was now fully convinced that light, be it in the 

form of a lucid circle or illuminated periphery, would always occa- 
sion the measures to be less than they should be, on account of its 
\'ivid impression upon the eye" [and a dark circle in a bright 
square was used for comparison]. 

12 A method to discover the quantity of the deception arising from the 

illumination pointetl out. 

13 The diameter of the Georgium Sidus cannot well be much less, nor 

perhaps much larger, than about 4". 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 531 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Yol. P. 

1783 73 247 On the proper motion of the Sun and Solar System; with an account of 
several changes that have happened among the fixed stars since the time 
of Mr. Flamsteed. By William Hekschel, Esq., F. R. S. 
Read March G, 1783. 

247 Several of the fixed stars have a proper motion. 

248 We may strongly suspect that there is not, in strictness of speaking, 

one fixed star in the heavens, and reasons which I shall adduce 
wiU render this so obvious that there can hardly remain a doubt of 
the general motion of all the starry systems, and, consequently, of 
the solar one among the rest. 

248 Reasons drawn from the theory of attraction evidently oppose every 

idea of absolute rest in any one of the stars, when once it is known 
that some of thena are in motion. 

249 I will give a general account of the most striking changes which I 

have found to have happened in the heavens since Flamsteed's 
time. I have now almost finished my third review. 
249 The first review was made with a Newtonian telescope something less 
than 7 feet focal length, a power of 222, and an aperture of 4| inches. 
It extended only to stars of the first, second, third, and fourth mag- 
nitudes. 

249 Of my second review I have given some account in Phil. Trans., vols. 

LXX, LXXI, LXXII. It was made with an instrument much supe- 
rior to the other of 85.2 inches focus, 6.2 inches aperture, and 
power 227. It extended to all the stars of Harris's maps, and the 
telescopic ones near them as far as the eighth magnitude. The 
Catalogue of Double Stars and the discovery of the Georgium Sidut 
were the results of that review. 
My third review was with the same instrument and aperture, but 

250 with a power of 460. This extended to all the stars of Flam- 
steed's catalogue, together with every small star about them, to 
the amount of a great many thousands of stars. 

250 It may be proper to mention that I have many a night, in the course 
of 11 or 12 hours of observation, carefully and singly examined not 
less than 400 celestial objects, besides taking measures, and some- 
times viewing a particular star for half an hour together, with all 
the various powers. 

250 The particularities attended to in this [third] review were— 

1. The existence of the star itself, sucli as it is given by Flam- 
steed. 

2. To observe well whether it was single or double, well defined 
or hazy. 

3. To view and mark dovm its particular color. 

4. To examine all the small stars in the neighborhood as far, at 
least, as the twelfth magnitude. 

The results of these observations I shall collect under a few general 
heads, as follows : 
250 I. Stars that are lost or have undergone some capital change 

since Flamsteed's time. 
254 II. Stars that have changed their magnitude since Flamsteed's 

time. 
257 III. Stars newly come to be visible. 

[Several red and garnet stars in this list. ] 



532 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis op the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Yol. p. 

1783 73 258 Here we ought to observe that it is not easy to prove a star to be 
newly come. 
259 "Does it not seem natural that these observations should cause a 
strong suspicion that most probably every star in the heavens is 
more or less in motion?" For though their proper motions could 
not cause all these changes, yet we may well suppose that motion 
is in some way concerned. 

259 A sjow motion, for instance, in an orbit round some opaque body 

might account for some of these changes, while others might be 
owing to the periodical return of large spots, which become visi- 
ble by a rotation. The idea also of a body flattened by a quick 
rotation and having a motion whereby more of the luminous surface 
would be exposed at one time than another tends to the same end. 

260 If the proper motion of the stars be admitted, who can deny that of 

our sun? Admitting this for granted, the greatest difficulty will 
be to discern the proper motion of the sun between so many other 
motions of the stars. This is an arduous task indeed, but we are 
not to be discouraged in the attempt. Let us at all events en- 
deavor to lay a good foundation for those who are to come after us. 
I shall therefore now point out the method of detecting the direc- 
tion and quantity of the supposed proper motion of the sun, and 
show that we have already some reasons to guess which way the 
solar system is probably tending its course. [See Figs. 1 and 2.] 

261 From the explanation of the figures it follows that — 

1. The greatest or total systematical parallax of the fixed stars will 
fall upon those that are in the line DE at rectangles to the direc- 
tion AB of the sun's motion. 

2. The partial systematical parallax of every other star [defined in 
amount]. 

3. The parallax of stars at different distances will be inversely as 
those distances. 

4. Every star at rest, to a system in motion, will appear to move in a 
direction contrary to that in which the system is moviiig. 

Hence it follows that if the sun be carried toward any star in the 
ecliptic, every star in [one half of the ecliptic] will decrease in 
longitude, and every star in [the other half] will increase. 

262 No method is so proper for this purpose as to divide our observations 

into 3 zones, viz : the equator and the two colures, and double 
stars are the most suitable for the purpose. Each of the 3 zones 
[contains double stars, which are in the previous list]. 

263 The equatorial zone, 20° wide, contains 150 stars. [List of them 

given.] 

264 The zone of the equinoctial where 20° wide contains 70 double stars. 

[List given.] 

265 The zone of the solstitial where 20° wide contains 120 double stars. 

[List given.] 

266 A zone 20° wide of the ecliptic of 120 double stars may be added. 

[List given.] 

266 It remains now only for me to make an application of this theory to 

some of the facts we already know. 

267 And first let me observe that the rules of philosophizing direct us to 

refer all phenomena to as few and simple principles as are sufficient 
to explain them. [An example given.] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 533 

Herschel, W.*. Synopsis of the Writings of — Coutiuucd. 

A, B. Vol. P. 

1783 73 267 Dr Maskelyne's ])roi)er motions of sevcu of the stars quoted, and 
the positions of Iheso stars plotted on Fig. 3. 

268 The motion of the sun towards the constellation of Herculex from a 

point not far from the 77th degree of right ascension to its oppo- 
site 257th degree will account for the proper motions of these stars 
by the single motion of the Solar System. 

269 Lalande gives the proper motion of 12 stars [table], and Fig. 4 rep- 

270 resents them projected on the plane of the equator. These stars 
with others [named] give us 27 motions to be accounted for. Our 
supposition of the sun's motion accounts for 22 of these, so there 

271 are but 5 exceptions, which must be resolved into the real proper 
motions of the stars. 

272 The apparent exception of Castor considered [and the physical con- 

nection of the two components is not assumed]. 

273 The apex of the solar motion defined. 

273 As to the quantity of the solar motion I can only offer a few distant 

hints. 

274 The solar motion can certainly not bo less than that which the earth 

has in her annual orbit. 
274 Future observations will soon throw more light on this interesting 
subject, and either fully establish or overthrow the hypothesis. 
To this end I have already begun a series of observation upon 
several zones of double stars, and should the result of them be 
against these conjectures I shall be the first to point out their 
fallacy. [Dated at Datchet, near Windsor, Feb. 1, 1783.] 

274 Postscript to the paper on the Motion of the Solar System. 

Mr. AUBERT has furnished me with Tob. Mayer's Opera Inedita, 
which contains a catalogue of 80 stars observed by Mayer in 1756, 
compared with Eoemer's observations of 1706. 

275 I have used these stars and left out of the list all those whose proper 

motions Mayer considers doubtful and the fourteen stars already 
examined, and which have been shown to support the hypothesis. 
The rest are drawn up in two tables. The first contains the stars 
that agree with my assigned motion of the solar system. The sec- 
ond contains those stars whose motions cannot be accounted for on 
my hypothesis, and must therefore be ascribed to a real motion in 
the stars themselves or to some still more hidden cause of a still re- 
moter parallax. 
[This phrase is explained by a foot-note, as follows:] 

276 [Foot-note.] Mr. Michell's admirable idea of the stars being col- 

lected into systems appears to be extremely well founded ; though 
it does not, in my opinion, take away the probability of many stars 
being still, as it were, solitary or inter systemaiical. Hence there may 
be a'proper motion of the whole system to which a star belongs. 
Examples given of an inhabitant of Saturn's fifth satellite ; or a 
small nebula may consist of many stars and have a proper motion 
as a system. 

277 [Foot-note.] We see, then, that while the sun is going toward a cer- 

tain point of the heavens each of the stars belonging to the sidereal 
system, of which the sun is one, will be affected as I have shown 
[p. 261] notwithstanding the whole system should have a real mo- 
tion in absolute space, and change its position with respect to other 
systems or intcrsystematical stars. 



534 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

1783 73 277 [Foot-note.] And slionld there ever be found, in any particular part 
of the heavens, a concurrence of proper motions of quite a difierent 
direction we shall then perhaps begin to form some conjectures as 
to which stars may possibly belong to ours and whicn to other 
systems. 

278 Discussion of the data of the tables. 

279 The general law according to which the declinations of the stars are 

governed is this : Let an arc of 90° be applied to the sphere of the 
fixed stars so as always to pass through the apex of solar motion. 
Then wliile one end of it is drawn along the equator the other will 
describe a closed curve. The law is that all stars in the northern 
hemisphere situated within the nodated part will seem to go to the 
north by the motion of the solar system ; the rest will ajjpear to go 
southward. A similar law applies for the southern hemisphere. 
See Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 and the explanation, p. 280. 

281 A paragraph of Mayer's [quoted] which seems to contain an objec- 
tion against the solar motion is really a good argument in its favor, 
as is shown. Mayer's paper was read in 1760, and mentions the 
motion of the solar system as a very possible thing, and points out 
some of the consequences of such a motion. 

283 The foot-note gives a reference to two other papers of the same sort, 
one by Wilson (1777), and one by Lalande (1776). 

1784 74 233 On the remarkable appearances at the polar regions of the planet Mars, the 
inclination of its axis, the position of its poles, and its spheroidical fig- 
ure; with a few hints relating to its real diameter and atmosphere. By 
William Herschel, Esq., F. R. S. Read March 11, 1784. 

234 The polar spots of Mars may aiibrd a good means of "settling the in- 

clination and nodes of that planet's axis." It was a question to be 
settled by observation how far these spots were permanent and iu 
what latitude of Mars they were situated. 

235 Observations from 1777, April 17, to 1783, Nov. 11. See Plate VI, 

where there are 24 drawings. 

237 1783, May 20. The polar spot, which is bright, seems to project above 

the disk by its splendor. 

238 [From observations up to 1783, Sept. 25.] I concluded that none of 

the bright spots were exactly at the poles, though not far from them. 

241 Appearances explained by graphical constructions, Plates VII, VIII, 
IX, X. 

243 Table giving the synodical places of the spots at the times of the dif- 
ferent observations. 

247 Of the direction or nodes of the axis of Mars, its inclination to the ecliptiCf 

and the angle of that planeV s equator with its own orbit. 

248 Observations of angle of position of the polar spots. 
252 Method of correcting the observations. 

254 Table of resulting corrections. 

254 From 13 observations reduced to 1783, October 4, the position of the 

axis of Mars was 55° 41' s.f. 
256 From 2 observations reduced to 1781, June 25, this position was 75° 

11' 8. p. 
256 The north pole of Mars must be directed towards some point of the 

heavens between 9 s. 24° 35' and s. 7° 15'. 
258 Method of reducing the elements from the ecliptic to the orbit of Mars. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 535 

Herschel W.: Synopsis of tue Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

1784 74 259 Inclination of the axis of Mars 61° 18' to tbo orbit; the node being m 

19° 28' of Pisces. 
260 The analogy between Mars and the earth pointed out. 

260 The bright pohir spots are probably owing to the vivid reiiection of 

light from frozen regions, and the reduction [in size] of these spots 
is to bo ascribed to their being exposed to the sun. 

261 Of the spheroidical figure of Mars. 

262 Observations relating to the polar fattening of Mars. 

These all show a difference' in the polar and equatorial diameters; 
even when the mirrors of the telescopes are turned 90^ in their 
tubes, and various telescopes employed. 

266 To avoid the corrections for phase, the -measures taken on the day of 

opposition will be adopted, these having been satisfactory. 

267 The equatorial diameter of Mars is to the polar as 1355 to 1289. 

268 Corrections to this ratio considered, and the former result changed to 

1355 to 1272, or as 16 to 15 nearly. 

270 This difference does not depend on distortions from the eye-pieces or 

objectives employed. 

271 The equatorial diameter of Mars at distance 1 is 9" 8'". 

271 The atmosphere of Mars. Dr. Smith reports an observation of Cas- 

siNi's where a star about to be occulted by Mars became extremely 
faint 6' fi-em the disk of the planet. 

272 Observations by Herschel of faint stars near Mars, which show them 

not to be more affected than the nearness of its superior light would 
warrant. 

273 From other phenomena it appears, however, that this planet is not 

without a considerable atmosphere; for besides the permanent spots 
on its surface I have often noticed changes in both bright and dark 
belts, and these alterations we can hardly ascribe to any other cause 
than the variable disposition of clouds and vapors floating in the 
atmosphere of that planet. 
273 Besult of the contents of this paper : 

The axis of Mars is inclined to the ecliptic 59° 42'. 

The node of the axis is in 17° 47' of Pisces. ^^ 

The point Aries on the Martial ecliptic answers to our 19° 28 of 
Sagittarius. ■ i v 

The iif^ure of Mars is that of an oblate spheroid whose equatorial di- 
ameter is to the polar one as 1355 to 1272, or as 16 to 15 nearly 

The equatorial diameter of Mars reduced to the mean distance of the 
earth from the sun is 9" 8'". 

And that planet has a considerable but moderate atmosphere, so that 
its inhabitants probably enjoy a situation in many respects similar 
to ours. 

[Dated] Datchet, Dec. 1, 1783. 

1784 74 437 Account of some observations tending to investigate the construction of the 

heavens. By William Herschel, Esq., F. R. S. Read June 17, 

17ft4 

437 A new Newtonian telescope has lately been completed the object 

speculum being 20 feet in focal length and its aperture 18ft inches. 

It is mounted in the meridian and gives positions only in a coarse way 

437 It would perhaps have been more eligible to have waited longer in 

oTder to complete the discoveries that seem to lie withm the reach 



536 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 
A. D. 7ol. P. 

of this instrument, and are already, in some respects, pointed out 

to me by it. 

1784 74 437 By taking more time I sliould undoubtedly be enabled to speak more 

confidently of the interior construction of the heavens and its vari- 
ous nebulous and sidereal strata, of which this paper can give only a 
few hints. 

438 As an apology for this prematurity it may be said that the end of all 
discoveries being communication, we can never be too ready in giv- 
ing facts and observations, whatever we may be, in reasoning upon 
them. 

438 Hitherto the sidereal heavens have been represented by the concave 
surface of a sphere. In future we shall look upon those regions 
into which we may now penetrate as a naturalist regards a rich ex- 
tent of ground containing strata variously inclined and directed as 
well as consisting of very different materials. 

438 Resolution of the milky way. 

439 Number of stars visible in field of the 20-foot telescope. 

440 Examination of Messier's nebulae. 

442-446 New nebulae have been found with the first 20-foot reflector of 12 
inches aperture; figures of some of these given in Plate XVII. 

442 Arrangement of nebulae and clusters in strata, sometimes of great 

length. 

443 Sun near the centre of the milky way. See Plate XVIII. 

445 Star gauging defined. 

446 Table of results of star gauging from 15^ 01™ to 16^ 37™ R. A. and from 

92° to 94° N. P. D., and ll^^ 16™ to 14^^ 30™ and 78° to 80° N. P. D. 
448 The solar motion explained by the situation of the sun in the milky 
way. 

448 Local distribution of nebulae — nebulas are often surrounded by spaces 

vacant of stars. 

449 Strata of Cancer and Coma Berenices described. 

449 Although my single endeavors should not succeed in a work which 
seems to require the joint effort of every astronomer, yet so much 
we may venture to hope that by applying ourselves with aU our 
powers to the improvement of telescopes, which I look upon as yet 
in their infant state, and turning them with assiduity to the study 
of the heavens, we shall in time obtain some faint knowledge of, 
and perhaps be able partly to delineate, the interior construction 
of the universe. 

With this memoir is a plate of figures of nebulae. Plate XVII, fig. 1, 
M. 98; 2, M. 53; 3, H., ii, 28 [resolvable]; 4, H., i, 18; 5, H, iii, 15; 
6, H., iv, 5; 7, H, iv, 2; 8, H, iv, 3; 9, 10; 11, H, i, 13; 12, 13, 14, 15T 

Also Plate XVIII, construction of the heavens — cloven disk. 

1785 75 40 Catalogue of Double Stars. By William Herschel, Esq., F. R. S. 

Read December 9, 1784. 
40 Introductory remarks. The great use of double stars having already 
been pointed out in a former paper on the Parallax of the Fixed 
Stars, and in a latter one on the Motion of the Solar System, I have 
now drawn up a second collection of 434 more, which I have found 
out since the first was delivered. 
The method of classing them is in every respect the same as that 
which is used in the first collection. 



BIBLIOGPAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITLNGS. 537 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of thk Writings of— Coutinnod. 

A.. D. Yol. r. 

1785 75 41 Method of identifying and (loscribiug the positions of the stars. 

43 I would recommend a precaution to those who wish to examine the 

closest of my double stars. It relates to the adjustment of the focus. 
Supposing the telescope and the observer long enough out in the 
open air to have acquired a certain temperature, and the night suf- 
ficiently clear, let the focus be readjusted with the utmost delicacy 
upon a star known to be single, of nearly the same altitude, magni- 
tude, and color as the star to be examined. 

44 Let the phenomena of the adjusting star be well attended to, as to 

whether it be perfectly rounded and avcU delined, or aflected with 
little appendages, etc. Such deceptions may be detected by turn- 
ing or unscrewing the object glass a little in its cell, when those 
appendages will be observed to revolve the same way. ' 

44 Being thus acquainted with the imperfections as well as the i)erfec- 

tions of the instrument, and going immediately from the adjusting 
star, we may hope to be successful. 

45 All the observations here given wore made with a })owcr of 4G0 imless 

they are marked otherwise. 

45 The measures were all taken with a parallel silk-worm's-thread mi- 

crometer and a power of 227 only, from the center of one star to the 
center of the other. 

46 The threads subtend an angle of 1" 13'" only. 

46 The positions have all been measured with a i)owor of 460 on a mi- 

crometer made for me according to the model given in the Phil. 
Trans., vol. Ixxi, page 500, fig. 4. 

W. Herschel. 
[Dated] Datcliet, near Windsor, Nov. 1, 1784. 

47 Catalogue OF Double Staes, First Class. [Nos. 25 to 97.] 

48 [Foot-note. ] Could we increase our power and distinctness at pleasure 

we might undoubtedly separate any two stars that are not abso- 
lutely in a direct line. * * * This will appear when we ccm- 
sider that perhaps §§ of the diameter of a star are spurious. It 
would have been curious if a considerable difference in th(! colors 
could have led us to discover which of the two stars is before the 
other ! But by far the greatest i^art of their diameters being spu- 
rious, it is probable that a different-colored light of two stars would 
join together where the I'ays of one extend into those of the other; 
and so, producing a third color by the mixture, still leave the ques- 
tion undecided. 
51 [Foot-note.] The interval between very unequal stars estimated in 
diameters generally gains more by an increase of magnifying power 
than the apparent distance of those which are nearer of a size. 
However, this only seems to take place when there is a difJQcnhy of 
seeing the object well with a low power. 
65 Second Class of Double Stars. [Nos. 39 to 102.] 
^ [Foot-note, j When the small star is so faint as not to bear the least 
illumination of the wires, its position may still be measured by the 
assistance of some wall or other object ; for an eye which has been 
some time in the dark can see a wall in a starlight night sufiiciently 
well to note the projection of the stars upon it in the manner which 
has been described with the lamp micrometer. Then introducing 
some light, and adapting the fixed wire to the observed direction 



538 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herscliel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continuecl. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

of the stars od the wall, the moveable wire may be set to the par- 
allel of the large star, which will give the angle of position pretty 
accurately. 

1785 75 78 Third Class of Double Stars. [iNos. 47 to 114,] 

82 [Foot-note. ] With regard to small stars that become visible by an in- 

crease of magnifying power, we may surmise that it is partly owing 
to the greater darkness of the field of view arising from the increased 
power, and jiartly to the real effect of the power. 

83 [Foot-note.] The prismatic power of the atmosphere, of which little 

notice has been taken by astronomers, is that part of its refractive 
quality whereby it disperses the rays of light and gives a lengthened 
and colored image of a lucid point. It is very visible in low stars; 
' Fomalhaut, for instance, affords a beautiful prismatic spectrum [ex- 

periments given], which explain also why a star is not always best 
in the center of the field of view ; a fact I have often noticed before 
I knew the cause. 
91 Fourth Class of Double Stars. [Nos. 45 to 132.] 
105 Fifth Class of Double Stars. [Nos. 52 to 137.] 
118 Sixth Class OF Double Stars. [Nos. G7 to 126.] 
126 Additional Errata to the Catalogue of Double Stars, Phil. Trans., vol, 

Ixxii. 
126 Plate V gives figures of 44 Lyncis and /j. Aurigce. 

1785 75 213 On the Construction of the Heavens. By William Herschel, Esq., F. 
R. S. Read Feb. 3, 1785. 

213 In an investigation of this delicate nature we ought to avoid two op- 

jjosite extremes. If we indulge a fanciful imagination and build 
worlds of our own, we must not wonder at our going wide from the 
path of truth and nature. On the other hand, if we add observa- 
tion to observation, without attempting to draw not only certain 
conclusions but also conjectural views from them, we offend against 
the very end for which only observations ought to be made. I will 
endeavor to keep a proper medium, but if I should deviate from that, 
I could wish not to fall into the latter error. 

214 Theoretical view of the formation of nebulae. 

Form I. Condensation of neighboring stars about a central and larger 
star ; globular forms. 

215 Form II. Condensation of neighboring stars about a nucleus of con- 

tiguous stars ; condensed irregular forms. 
Form III. Condensation about a stream of stars, producing a form 
coarsely similar to the prototype : extended, branching, compound 
forms. 

216 Form IV. Compound forms derived from the mutual attraction of 

clusters. 

V. Vacancies will then arise in the surrounding space. 

Objection to the above views ; they tend to show a gradual destruc- 
tion of the universe. Response, that space is infinite and that the 
occasional destruction of one star may operate to give life to the 
rest. 

217 Optical appearances to an observer within a nebula of the third form. 
219 Results of observation — star gauges. 

221-240 Gauges throughout the 24*^ in R. A. Results given in detail in a 
Table. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 539 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis op the Wiutixgs of— Continued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1785 75 241 The stars being supposed to be nearly equally scattered, and th.-ir 

number in a field of view of known angular diameter being given, 
to determine the length of the visual ray. Solution of the problem. 

243 Another solution. 

244 We inhabit the planet of a star belonging to a Compound Nebula of the 

third form. 
244 Proof that the sun is situated in a compound nebula of Form III. 
250 Use of the gauges. 

253 Section of our sidereal system. ' 

254 The origin of nebulous strata. • 

256 An Opening in the Heavens. M. 80 and M. 4 on the edges of vacancies. 

257 Phenomena at the Poles of our nebula. 

258 Enumeration of very compound ncbnlw or milky ways. Ten described, in- 

cluding those of Orion and Atidromcda. 
263 A Perforated Nebula or liing of Stars. Account of nebula of Zyra. G. C, 

4447. 
Planetary nebula;. Observations of G. C, 4G28, 4964, 4572, 4565, 826, 

2102, 4302. 
266 The accompanying plate, viii, gives a figure of a section of the milky 

way. 

1786 76 457 Catalogue of one thousand Neio Nebula and Clusters of Stars. By Wil- 

liam Herschel, LL. D,, F. R. S. Read April 27, 1786. 

457 Description of sweeping telescope ; Newtonian; 20 feet focus, 18.7 in. 

aperture, power 157, field 15' 14". 

458 Description of the method of sweeping. 

464 Probable errors of the places given by the sweeps before 1783, Dec. 
13, Aa=l>°; ^5 8'-10', during 1784 j\a<30^; A(5 <5'. 
Till 1785, September 24, Aa<12s; ^S <4'. 
Till 1786, April, Aa < 6^ ; A(5 < 2'. 

466 When the diurnal motion of the earth was first maintained it could 
not but add greatly to the reception of this opinion when the 
telescoj)e showed Jupiter, Mars, and Venus revolving on their axes ; 
in the same way the view of so many sidereal systems will add 
credit to what I have said in regard to the construction of the 
heavens. For to the inhabitants of the nebulae of the present cata- 
logue our sidereal system must appear either as a small nebuloas 
patch ; an extended streak of milky light ; a large resolvable neb- 
ula ; a very compressed cluster of minute stars, hardly discernible ; 
or as an immense collection of large scattered stars of various sizes, 
according as their situation is more or less remote from ours. 

466 Definition of classes of nebulaj and clusters. 

467 A map of positions of nebulae Avas made for identification [by means 

of which the laws of aggregation of the nebulae were gradually dis- 
covered]. 
469 Explanation of a short method of describing the appearance of a neb- 
ula by letters, 



471 


Catalogue : 








471 


Class I 


No. 


1 to No. 


93 


473 


II 


No. 


1 to No. 


402 


482 


III 


No. 


1 to No. 


376 


492 


IV 


No. 


1 to No. 


29 


493 


V 


No. 


1 to No. 


24 



540 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herscliel, "W.: S"iTsroPSis of the Writings of — Continued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

494 Class VI No. 1 to No. 19 

496 VII No. 1 to No. 17 

496 VIII No. 1 to No. 40 

498 Notes to special nebulae. 

178G 76 500 Investigation of the cause of that indistinctness of vision tvhich has Jeen 
ascribed to the smallness of the optic pencil. By William Herschel, 
LL.D., F. R. S. Read June 22, 1786. 

500 Soon after my first essay of u8iug liigli powers with the Newtonian 

telescope, I began to doubt whether an opinion which has been en- 
tertained by several eminent authors ' ' that vision will grow indis- 
tinct when the optic x>encils are less than the fortieth or fiftieth 
part of an inch " would hold good in all cases. 

I perceived that, according to this criterion, I was not entitled to see 
distinctly with a power much more than about 320 in a 7-foot tele- 
scope of an aperture of 6.4 inches; whereas in many experiments 
I found myself very well pleased with magnifiers which far ex- 
ceeded such narrow limits. 

This induced me, as it were, by way of apology to myself for seeing 
well where I ought to have seen less distinctly, to make a few ex- 
periments. 

501 The first experiments I made were in 1778, and the result of them 

proved so decisive that I have never since resumed the subject, 
and had it not been for a late conversation with some of my highly 
esteemed and learned friends, I might probably have left the 
papers on which these experiments were recorded among the rest 
of those that are laid aside when they have afforded me the infor- 
mation I want. 

501 Experiments tvith the naked eye. 

502 Microscopic experiments. 

Exp. 3. With a pencil of ^^ of an inch I saw very distinctly. 

503 Exp. 4. With a pencil oi-rkj of ^t^ inch I saw very distinctly. 
Exp. 5. With a pencil of xmn of an inch I saw very distinctly. 
Exp. 8. With a pencil of yt^^^ of an inch I saw very distinctly. 

504 Exp. 10. It occurred to me that a certain proportion of aperture 

might be necessary to a given focal length of an object-glass or 
speculum. 

505 Exp. 10, 11, 12, 13, show that to see well in microscopes like the one 

used, the aperture of the object glass must bear a considerable 

proportion to its focal length. 
505 Exp. 15 shows that ^th part of the focal length is not a suflScient 

aperture. 
507 As soon as convenient I intend to pursue this subject; at present my 

engagement with the work of a 40-feet reflector will hardly permit 

so much leisure, and till I have repeated, extended, and varied 

these experiments, I would wish them to be looked upon as mere 

hints. 

1787 77 4 Remarks on the new Comet. In a letter from William Herschel, LL. 
D., F. R. S., to Charles Blagden, M. D., Sec. R. S. Read Nov. 
16, 1786. [Dated Slough, near Windsor, Nov. 15, 1786.] [This 
comet was discovered by Carolina Herschel, August 1, 1786, 
during the absence of William Herschel on a visit to Germany, 
It was comet 1786, II.] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 541 

Herschel W.: Synopsis of the Whitings of— Coutiimed. 

A.D. Yol. P. 

1787 77 125 An account of the discovery of two satellites revolving round the Georgian 
Planet. By William Herschel, LL. D. , F. R. S. Read Feb. 15, 1787. 

125 I had frequently directed large telescopes to this remote planet to see 

if it were attended by satellites, but failed for the want of sufficient 
light in the instruments I used. 

126 In the beginning of [January, 1787] I found that my telescope used as 

a. front view gave much more light. On tho 11th of January I selected 
a sweep which included the Georgian Planet, and noted down the 
places of the small stars near it. The next day two of these were 
missing. To satisfy myself I noted down all the small stars on the 
14th, 17th, 18th, and 24th of January, and the 4th and 5th of Feb- 
ruary, and though I had no longer any doubt of the existence of at 
least one satelhte, I thought it right to defer this communication 
till I could see it actually in motion. Accordingly I began to pur- 
sue this satellite on February the 7th, at about 6 o'clock in tho eve- 
ning, and kept it in view till three in the morning on Feb. the 8th, 
and during those nine hours I saw this satellite faithfully attend its 
primary planet and describe a considerable arc of its proper orbit. 

126 While I was attending to the motion of this satellite I did not forget 

to follow another small star which I was pretty well assured was 
also a satellite. 

127 The first-discovered satellite lOberon^ is the farthest from the planet 

and I shall call it thesecoHfZ satellite; tho last-discovered \_Titania-\ I 
shall csdl ihe first satellite. 
127 I made a sketch on paper to point out beforehand the situation of 
these satellites on Feb. 10. and [on that night] the heavens dis- 
played the original of my drawing by shewing, in the situation I 
had delineated them, the Georgian Planet attended by two satellites. 
I confess that this scene appeared to me with additional beauty as 
the little secondary planets seemed to give a dignity to the primary 
one which raises it into a more conspicuous situation among the 
great bodies of our solar system. 

128 I suppose the first performs a synodical revolution hi about 8f days, 

the second in nearly 13^ days. Their orbits make a considerable 
angle with the ecliptic. ^ n a 

129 Attempts to measure them with my micrometers have so far failed 

I have nevertheless several resources in view and do not despair ot 
succeeding pretty well in the end. ^^^ Herschel. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, February 11, 1787. 
1787 77 229 An account of Three Volcanoes in the Moon. By William Herschel, 
LL. D., F. R. S.; communicated by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., F. K. 
S. Read April 26, 1787. 
229 The phenomena of nature are to be viewed not only with the usual 
attention to facts as they occur, but with the eye of reason and ex- 
perience. In this we are not allowed to depart from plain appear- 
ances. Thus when we see on the surface of the moon a great num- 
ber of elevations from half a mile to a mile and a halt in height we 
are strictly entitled to call them mountains; but when vre attend 
to their particular shape, in which many of them resemble the 
craters of our volcanoes, and thence argue that they owe their 
ori-in to the same cause which has modeled many of these, we may 
be said to see by analogy, or with the eye of reason. 
3H 



542 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Sy^topsis op the Writings of— Continued. 

S. D. Yol. P. 

1787 77 229 In this latter case, though it maf be convenient to use expressions 
which can only be justified by reasoning upon the facts themselves, 
it will certainly be the safest way not to neglect a full description 
of them, that it may appear to others how far we have been author- 
ized to use the mental eye. 

1787 77 230 April 19, 1787, KS^ 36'° sidereal time, three volcanoes seen ; April 20, 

1787, lO"^ 2"" sidereal time, one of the three bums with greater vio- 
lence than last night. The diameter of the volcano is twice that 
of Jupiter's satellite III. 

231 The appearance of the actual fire exactly resembled a small piece of 

burning charcoal when it is covered with a very thin coat of white 
ashes. All the adjacent parts of the volcanic mountain seemed to 
be faintly illuminated by the eruption and were gradually more 
obscure as they lay at a greater distance from the crater. This 
eruption resembled much that which I saw on the 4th of May, 1783,* 
an account of which I shall shortly lay before the society. 

William Herschel. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, April 21, 1787. 

232 Note on M. Mi<;CHAiN's comet. [1787,1.] 

1787 77 364 On the Georgian Planet and its satellites. By William Herschel, LL. D. 
F. R. S. Read May 22, 1788. 
In a former paper I gave the periodical times of two satellites revolv- 
ing round the Georgian Planet in a general way. While it requires 
a much longer series of observations than I have had an opportu- 
nity of making to settle their mean motions with accuracy, I shall 
communicate the result of my past observations, and believe that 
the elements here delivered will be found to be full as accurate as 
we can at this time expect. 
365 Methods of measuring angles of position which were employed. 
365 Synodical revolution of Satellite I = 8'i 17>i I'" 19.3". [Tjtania.] 

365 Synodical revolution of Satellite II = ISd ll'i S"" 1.5«. lOberon.'] 

366 Other elements. 

368 Mass of [ Uranus'] is 17.740612 times the earth's mass. 

369 Diameter of [ Uranus'] is assumed 4". 04625. 

370 Difficulties in making the measures of satellites stated. 

371 Measures of Satellite I and discussion of these. 

376 The light of these satellites is uncommonly faint. The second [ Ofteron] 

is the brighter of the two, but the diiference is not considerable. 

377 Elements of the orbits. W. Herschel. 

378 Plate V of diagrams. [Dated] Slough, March 1, 1788. 

1789 79 151 Observations on a Comet. In a letter from William Herschel, LL. D., 
F. R. S., to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., P. R. S. Read April 2, 1789. 
Letter dated Slough, March 3, 1789. [This was comet 1788, II.] 
151 The comet was discovered by Carolina Herschel, December 21, 

1788, and positions of it on December 22, 1788, are given. 

153 No solid nucleus, even so small as 1", could be seen, and the same fact 
has been observed by me in three other comets. 
1789 79 212 Catalogue of a second thousamd of New Nehulai and Clusters of Stars; 
with a few introductory Bemarks on the Construction of the Heavent. 
By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 11, 1789. 
213 A telescope has power to penetrate into space. Proof that every star 
is a sun shining by its native brightness. 

•This observation is reported by Baron von TAcn in BoDli's Jahrbuch, 17S8, p. 144. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 543 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

1789 79 214 Systems of stars— globular clusters and definition of a cluster. 

216 Admitting tliat a cluster is real, not apparent, the stars composing it 

are about of equal magnitude. 

217 At the same distance fi-om the centre an equal scattering takes place. 

217 These clusters are of a globular form. 

218 They are more condensed at the centre than at the surface. 

219 Form I of nebula? [P/(i/. Trans., 1785, p. 214], is thus shown to exist 

in the heavens. 

219 Such clusters are subject to central powers. 

220 The idea of other central forces [than that of gravity] in the construc- 

tion of the sidereal heavens, was given in certain mathematical 
papers delivered to the Philosophical Society of Bath [and is yet 
entertained]. 

221 Not only were round nebula and clusters formed by central powers, 

but likewise every cluster of stars or nebula that shows a gradual 
condensation, or increasing brightness towards a centre. 

222 This theory of central power is fully established on grounds [of 

observation] which cannot be overturned. 

223 Clusters can be found of 10' diameter W'itli a certain degree of com- 

pression and stars of a certain magnitude, and smaller clusters of 
4' 3' 2' in diameter, with smaller stars and greater compression, and 
so on through resolvable nobulaj by imperceptible stej>8, to the 
smallest and faintest [and most distant] nebula). 

224 Other clusters there are, which lead to the belief that either they are 

more compressed or are composed of larger stars. Spherical clus- 
ters are probably not more dift'erent in size among themselves than 
dilferent individuals of plants of the same sxiecies. As it has been 
shown that the spherical figure of a cluster of stars is owing to 
central powers, it follows that those clusters which, cmteris paribus, 
are the most complete in this figure, must have been the longest 
exposed to the action of these causes. 

225 The maturity of a sidereal system may thus bo judged from the dis- 

jjosition of the component parts. Planetaiy nebulaj may be looked 
on as very aged, 

226 This method of viewing the heavens seems to throw them into a new 

kind of light. They are now seen to resemble a luxuriant garden 

which contains the greatest variety of productions in different 

flourishing beds; and one advantage we may at least reap from it 

is that we can, as it were, extend the range of our experience to au 

immense duration. For, is it not almost the same thing whether 

we live successively to witness the germination, blooming, foliage, 

fecundity, fading, withering, and corruption of a plant, or whether 

a vast number of specimens, selected from every stage through 

which the plant passes in the course of its existence, be brought at 

once to our view ? 

William Herschel. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, May 1, 1789. 

226 Catalogue : 

226 Class I No. 94 to No. 215 

229 II No. 403 to No. 768 

238 III No. 377 to No. 747 

346 IV No. 30 to No. 58 

248 V No. 25 to No. 44 

250 VI No. 20 to No. 35 



544 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 
A. I). Vol. p. 

1789 79 251 Class VII No, 18 to No. 55 

253 VIII No. 41 to No. 78 

255 Notes. 

255 P. S. — The planet Saturn has a sixth satellite revolving round it ia 
about 32 hours 48 minutes. Its orbit lies exactly in the plane of 
the ring. An account of its discovery with the 40-foot reflector, 
etc. , will be presented to the Royal Society at their nest meeting. 

William Herschel. 

1790 80 1 Account of the discovery of a sixth and seventh satellite of the planet 

Saturn; with remarks on the construction of its ring, its atmosphere, its 
rotation on an axis, and its spheroidical figure. By William Her- 
schel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read November 12, 1789. 

1 In a postscript to my last paper I announced to the Royal Society the 

discovery of a satellite of Saturn. I have now the honor to present 
them, with an account of two satellites instead of one, and I have 
called them the sixth and seventh, although their situation very 
probably entitles them to be called the first and second. 

2 These have not been before discovered on account of the difficulty of 

seeing them with a less telescope than the 40-foot. 

2 I began to observe Saturn in 1774, and on March 17 I saw it with a 

.5^-foot reflector, as in Plate I, fig. 1. Fig. 2 shows it on April 3, 
1774, without its ring. In 1775 I saw the ring gradually open 
(using a 7-foot reflector). Fig. 3, Plate II, shows the aj>pearauce 
178S [should be 1778], June 20 (with a very good 10-foot reflector). 

3 The black belt on the ring of Saturn is not in the middle of ita 

breadth, nor is the ring subdivided by many such lines, but there 
is one single, considerably broad belt upon the ring which is per- 
manently in its jflace. 
3 My observations show that this belt (at least on the north half of the 
ring, where I have alone observed it) is not like the belts oi Jupiter 
or those of Saturn, subject to variations of color or figure, but is 
most probably owing to some permanent construction of the surface 
of the ring itself. 

3 It is not the shadow of a chain of mountains, since it is visible all 

round the ring. The same argument will hold good against sup- 
posed caverns or concavities. It is pretty evident that it is con- 
tained between two concentric circles. See fig. 4, Plate II, drawing 
of 1780, May 11. 

4 As to the surmise of two rings, it does not appear eligible to venture 

on so artificial a construction, by way of explaining a phenomenon, 
which does not absolutely demand it. 

4 As yet we do not know of any rotation of the ring which may be of 

such a proper velocity as [might lend some support to the idea of 
two detached rings]. 

5 If the southern side of the ring should be differently marked, it would 

negative the idea of two rings. Even if it should be marked the 
same in every respect, it would be best to wait for the occultation 
of some considerable star by Saturn, when, if the ring be divided, 
it will be seen between the openings of the ring, as well as between 
the ring and Saturn. 
5 We may certainly affirm that the ring is no less solid than the planet 
itself. The reasons which prove the solidity of one serve to prove 
that of the other. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HliRSCHEL's WRITINGS. 545 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis of tiik Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. YvL P. 

179U tiO 5 The mass of the planet, as determined from the satellites, ineludes 
that of the rint;; and the ring jiroducea irregularities in the mo- 
tions of the satellites, as does also'tho oblateness of the ball of the 
planet. 

5 The light of the ring is brighter than that of tlie planet. [Proof 

given.] 

6 The ring is extremely thin for — 

1789, July 18, [Tcthi/s] was thieker than the ring; 

, July 23, [Dione'i was twice as thick as the ring; 

, July 27, lEnc(Iadus'\ was thieker than tlie ring; 

, August 29, lAIimas'] was thicker than the ring; 

1789, Oct. 1.5: the ring was barely visible in the 40-foot reflector, 

but lEnceladus'] was visilde about the middle of the preceding 

arm. 
1789, Oct. IG: I followed [^[mas and Enceladns'\ up to the very 

disc of the planet. 

7 A suspicion arises that by a refraction through some very rare atmos- 

phere on the ring the satellites might be lifted up and depressed so 
as to be visible on both sides of the ring. 

8 The edge of the ring is very probably not squan;, but spherical or 

spheroidical. 
8 The ring cannot possibly disappear on account of its thinness. 

8 I formerly supposed the surface of the ring to l)e rough, owing to 

9 luminous points like mountains seen on the ring, till one of these 
supposed luminous points was kind enough to venture oft" the edge 
of the ring and appear as a satellite. As I had noted all such in- 
equalities I could calculate all such surmises, and I have always 
found these appearances to be due to satellites. 

9 Upon the whole, I cannot say that I had any one instance that could 
induce me to believe the ring was not of a uniform thickness; that 
is, equally thick at equal distances from the centre and of an equal 
diameter throughout. 

10 Strong suspicions of the existence of a sixth satellite I have long en- 
tertained. I saw it 1787, August 19. I was then busy with the 
Georgian satellites. 

10 In 1788 my 20-foot speculum was much tarnished. 

10 The very first moment I turned my 40-foot telescope on Saturn, 1789, 

August 28, I saw six satellites, and on September 17 I detected the 
seventh satellite. 

11 From many observations of the sixth satellite [7w(«7arf«.'*] I find its 

sidereal revolution l*" 8'' 53'" 9", and by computation its distance 
35". 058. Its light is considerably strong, but not e(]ual to that of 
LTf%s]. 

12 The seventh satellite [J/tmfl.s] makes one sidereal revolution in 22'' 

40"' 46^; its distance (computed) is 27". 366. 

12 It is incomparably smaller than \^EuceJaduii'\, and even in the 4fl-foot 

reflector appears no bigger than a very small lucid point; to which 
the exquisite figure of the speculum not a little contributes. 

13 The orbits of these two satellites are exactly in the plane of the ring. 
13 Observations of the belts and figure of Saturn froni April 9, 1775, to 

Sept. 8, 1780, and reference to [rough] figures arc here given. 
15 "We may draw two conclusions from these: First, Saturn Has probably 
a very considerable atmosphere.. The cliang»;a in the belts show 
S. Mis. 31 35 



546 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Hersehel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Tol. r. 

this, and also llie hanging of the satellites on the limb ; the time 
of hanging on the limb for Mimas has actually amounted to 20 
minutes. This would denote a refraction of about 2" [provided, 
etc.]. 

1790 80 16 The second conclusion is that Saturn turns on an axis perpendicular 
to the ring. The proof depends on the position of the belts which 
for 14 years have been [nearly] always equatorial. 

17 Another reason is that Saturn, like Jupiter, Mars, and the earth, is 

flattened at the poles, and therefore ought to be supposed to turn 
on its axis. [Observations 1776, July 22, to 1789, Sept. 14, given.] 
On the last date equatorial diameter 22".81 (4). 
polar diameter 20". 61 (4). 

18 The equatorial is to the polar diameter nearly as 11 to 10. 

18 One beautiful observation of the transit of [^Titan'] over the disc I 
must add, of 1789, November 2. 

William Herschel. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, November 3, 1789. 

1790 80 427 On the Satellites of the planet Saturn and the rotation of its Ring on an 
Axis. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 7, 1790. 

427 The observations to be given extend from July 18 to Dec. 25, 1789. 

On calculating the appearances of bright luminous points on the 
ring, I found that all of them could not be accounted for by satel- 
lites. 

428 The question, then, is, what to make of these protuberant points? 
428 To admit two or three more satellites appears too hazardous. And 

yet a suspicion of at least one more satellite would often return. 

428 The observations of each satellite have been separated, and at least 

one observation of each has been calculated for each night. 

429 Fig. 1, Plate XIX, p. 494, gives a scheme of the orbits. Explanation 

of this figure and of the tables, 

432 Observations on the fifth satellite of Saturn [Japetus']. 

438 Observations on the fourth satellite of Saturn [Tt/rtH]. 

441 1789, Nov. 2. Transit of Titan's shadow. 

444 Observations on the third satellite of Saturn [Bhea'\. 

447 1789, Oct. 16. The color of Rhea is inclining to blue. 

450 Observations on the second satellite of Saturn [T)ione'\. 

17S9, Sept. 25. Probable occultation of Dione by Tethijs. 

456 Observations on the first satellite of Saturn lTethys'\. 

403 Observations on the sixth satellite of Saturn \_Encelad'ds'\. 
1789, Oct. 16. Occultation by Saturn. 

473 Ohsa'vations on the seventh satellite of Saturn l_Mimas']. 
1789, Oct. 16. Occultation by Saturn. 

478 The motions of these 7 satellites are so well known that no shape of 
lucid spot, protuberant point, or latent satellite can be occasioned 
by any one of them without our knowing it. I found that the ob- 
servations to be given presently could not be explaiued by any of 
the known satellites. 

478 The first idea was of another satellite interior to the 7th ; and if a 
revolution slower than about 15J hours could have been found to 
account for most of the places where the bright spots were seen, 
I should have believed these to be caused by an 8th satellite. This 
being impracticable, I examined what would be the result if these 
bright points were attached to the plane of the ring. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 547 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wihtixgs of— Continiud. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1790 80 479 As observations, carefully made, should always take the lead of theo- 

ries, I shall not be concerned if Avhal I have to say contradicts what 
has been said in my last paper. 
479 A lucid and apparently protuberant point may exist without any 
great inequality in the ring. A vivid light, for instance, will seem 
to project greatly beyond the limits of the body ui)on which it is 
placed. 

479 The brightest and best-observed spot agrees to a revolution of 10'' '.12™ 

15^.4 at a distance of 17".'J"J7, ;". c, on the ring. Therefore, unless 
the ring is tluid, or lias a groove in it, so as to let the satellite re- 
volve in it, we onght to admit a revolution of the ring itself. 

480 It seems almost proved that the consistence of the ring is not less than 

the body of Saturn; consequently no sutlicient degree of llnidity 
can be admitted. 

481 Observations not accounted for by satellites [are given]. 
487 Epochs of six of the satellites given. 

487 Period of Enceladus l* 8^ 53™ 8^9 ; distance 36".7889. 

" "Mimas 0-i2-2i^37"22«.9; " 28".G(589. 

488 Tables for the seven satellites of Saturn. 
495 Example of the use of the tables. 

1791 81 71 On Nebulous Stars, proiierhf so called. By William nKRscHKL,LL.D., 

F. R. S. Read February 10, 1791. 
71 In one of my late examinations of the heavens I discovered a star of 

about the 8th magnitude, surrounded uith a faintly luminous utmosjtluro 

of a considerable extent. 
71 The name nebulous stars was incorrectly used in former times. 

71 The milky way itself consists eutirely of stars. 

72 Nebulie can be selected so that an iusensible gradation shall take ]tla<"e 

from a coarse cluster like the Pleiades down to a milky nebulosity 
like that in Orion, every intermediate step being represented. This 
tends to confirm the hypothesis that all are composed of stars more 
or less remote. 

73 A comparison of the two extremes of the series, as a coarse cluster and 

a nebulous star, indicates, however, that the nebulosity about the star 
is not of a starry nature. 

74 Summary of the reason which formerly led to the belief that all 

nebuhe were clusters more or less remote. 
Basis for the ideas of connection and disjunction of stars and nebuhe. 
75-77 Particular examples of such supposed conjunctions and disassocia- 
tions. Telescopic milky way of over GO scjuare degrees. 
The trapezium of Orion is unconnected with the nebula. 
78-82 Notes of observations on nebulous stars and consideration of the re- 
lation of the nucleus to the envelope in each case. 

83 Considering H, iv 69, [= G. C. 810,] as a typical nebulous star, and 

supposing the nucleus and chevelure to be connected, we may, 1st, 
suppose the whole to be of stars, in which case either the nucleus is 
enormously larger than other stars of its stellar magnitude or the 
envelope is composed of stars indeiinittdy small; or, 2d, Ave nuist ad- 
mit that the star is involved in a shining lluid of a nature totally 
unknown to us. 

84 Perhaps it has l)een too hastily surmised that all milky nebulosity la 

owing to starlight only. 



548 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEl's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the "\Vriti:s"gs of — Contiuued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

The telescopic milky way is probably composed of this sliiiiiug fluid, 
which must commence somewhere about the rauge of the stars of 
the 7th magnitude, and extend to the regions of the 9th, 10th, llth, 
and 12th. 

1791 81 85 The shining fluid migbt exist independently of stars. The light of 

this fluid is no kind of reflection from the star in the center. If this 
matter is self-luminous, it seems more fit to produce a star by its 
condensation than to depend on the star for its existence. 

86 List of diffused nebulosities and planetary nebuhe ; both better ac- 

counted for by the hyi^othesis of a shining fluid than by supposing 
them to be distant stars. 
Regeneration of stars from planetary nebulae. 

87 How far the light-corpuscles emitted from millions of suns may be 

concerned in this shining fluid it is not necessary to inquire. Wo 
need not know the origin of the luminous matter whose existence 
is rendered evident by means of nebulous stars. 

W. Herschel. 
[Dated] Slough, Januaiy 1, 1791. 

1792 82 1 On the BUig of Saturn and the rotation of the fifth satellite upon its axis. 

By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read December 15, 1791. 

1 In a former pai)er {Phil. Trans-, vol. Ixxx, p. 4) I spoke of the sur- 

mise of a division in Saturn's ring with pi'oper doubts. My late 
views of the southern side of the ring and the discovery of its quick 
rotation enable me to speak decisively. 

2 The black division is always of the same breadth if we leave out of 

account certain very small variations which I have occasionally 
observed. 

3 Observations on the Ring of Saturn (from 1790, Sept. 7, to Oct. 24). 

4 From these and former observations I think myself authorized now 

to say that the planet Saturn has two concentric rings. * * * 

5 The relative dimensions of the rings and spaces are given in a table. 

5 This opening in the ring (which is some 2,513 miles in width) must 

be of considerable service to the planet, in reducing the space that 
is eclipsed by the shadow of the ring. 

6 It becomes a question if both rings revolve in the same time. The 

period formerly given (Phil. Trans., Ixxx, p. 481), belongs to the 
outer ring. The former observations indicate that the inner ring 
revolves with great velocity on its axis, but ai'e not sufficient to 
determine the period. 

7 It is quite jirobable that there should be a small difference in the 

periods of the two rings. 

7 A memoir (in Histoire de V Academic Poyale des Sciences de Paris, 1787, 

p. 249 — ) refers to observations of many divisions of the ring of 
Saturn. 

8 My own observations of Saturn since 1774 contain only four where 

any other black division upon the ring is mentioned than the one 
I have constantly observed. These 4 observations were in 1780 — 
(see Plate I, figs 1, 2, 3.) 

9 Satu7-n was then in the very best situation for viewing the plane of 

the ring, but I have hitherto set these observations aside aa 
wanting more confirmation. 
9 Observations have been made by M. Cassini, Mr. Short, and Mr. 
Hadley [and are referred to]. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 549 

Herschel, W.: Syxopsis of tuk Wi;itixg.s of— Continued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

17D2 i5-*, 11 It does not appear to nie that tliere is a sufficient ground for admit- 
ting the ring of Saturn to be of a very changeable nature. 
11 Measures of the diameter of the outer ring, reduced to the mean dis- 
tance of <Srt/«>-H from the earth; 46".83'2 ; 47". 241; 4.7'. 803; 
13 On the roiation of Ihcfiflh sateUUe of Saturn, on its axis. 

The tifth satellite IJapctus] is subject to a change of brightness ; this 
having been noticed by other observers I did not at first pay so 
much attention to it as it deserved. I afterwards followed this satel- 
lite with great attention and marked all its changes of ai)i>arent 
brightness. 

13 The result of many observations is as follows: The light of the satel- 

lite is in full splendor during the time it runs through that part of 
its orbit, Avhich is between 68 and 1-29 degrees past the inferior eon- 
junction. In this arc it does not fall above one magnitude short of 
the brightness of [Titan'\. 

14 From about 7° i)ast the opposition till towards the inferior eonjnnc- 

tiou it is not only less bright than IRhea'] but hardly, if at all, ex- 
ceeds [Dtone] ; or even [Tethi/.s^ at elongation. Such a change 
among the fixed stars and to the naked eye would be from the ^d 
to the 5th magnitude. 

14 It is now evident that the time of its rotation on its axis cannot differ 
much from the time of its revolution about Saturn ; notwithstand- 
ing that the light of the satellite has suffered an occasional change 
of short duration from other causes. 

14 But I may go further and ascertain upon sufficient grounds, that this 
satellite turns once upon its axis exactly in the time it i)erforms 
one revolution. This degree of accuracy is obtained by taking in 
the observations of M. Cassixi in Mcinoins de V Acad. Roy. dcs Sci- 
ences, 170."), p. 121; (see, also, 1707, p. 0(5), and those of M. Bekxakd, 
op. cit., 17HG, p. 378. 

IG Joining all these I conclude that the 5th satellite of Saturn turns \\\)(ni 
its axis once in 79 days 7 hours and 47 minutes. 

IG I cannot help reflecting with some pleasure on the discovery of an 
analogy which shows that a certain uniform plan is carried on 
among the secondaries of our solar system; and we may conjecture 
that probably most of the satellites are governed by the same law, 
especially if it be founded on such a construction of their figure as 
makes them more ponderous toward their primary planets. 

17 From the changes in [Japetus'] we may conclude that some i)art of its 
surface, and this by far the largest, reflects much less light than 
the rest ; and that neither the darkest nor the brightest side of the 
satellite is turned toward the planet, but ))artly one and i)artly the 
other, though probably less of the bright side. 

17 The great regularity of this change of brightness seems to point out 
another resemblance of this satellite with our moon. We see the 
spots on tlie moon of pretty nearly the same brightness, so as not 
to be overcast in a very strong degree by dense clouds to disfigure 
them, and therefore have great reason to surmise that her atmos- 
phere is extremely rare ; in like manner we may suppose the atmos- 
phere of Japetus as rare as that of our moon. 

17 On the distance of the fifth satellite. 

;Many measures have been made for the imrpose of getting the mass. 
They begin 1791, Sept. 25, and end Oct. 1. 



550 BIBLIOGRAPIIY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W. : Synopsis of the \Yritixgs of— Continued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1792 82 23 Miscellaneous ohservalrons. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. 

Re.ad December 22, 1791 . 

23 Accoimt of a Comet. [1792, I.] This was discovered by Carolina 

Herschel, 1791, Dec 15. Examined Dec. 16 with a 20-ioot re- 
flector; brief description and position for Dec. 16. 

24 0)1 the periodical appearance of o Ceti. 

25 331 days 10^ ig^ is its period. 

26 On the disappearance of the ^ibfh Herculis, 

1781, Oct. 10, I examined both .54 and 55 Herculis; again 1782, April 
11 ; 1790, May 24, 55 Herculis was missingjiand although looked for 
has not again been seen. 

27 Remarkable Phenomena in an eclipse of the Moon. 

1790, Oct. 22, when the moon was totally eclipsed I viewed Ihe disc 
with a 20-feet reflector with power 360. In several parts of it I 
perceived many bright, red, luminous points. Most of them w re 
small and round, at least 150 of them. Their light did not much 
exceed that of Moris Porphyrites Hevelii. 

We know too little of the surface of the moon to ventni'e at a surmise 
of the cause from whence the great brightness, similarity, and re- 
markable color of these points could arise. (Dated) Slough, De- 
cember 17, 1T91. 

1793 83 201 Observations on the Planet Venns. By William Herschel, LL. D., 

F. R. S. Read June 13, 1793. 

201 A series of observations on Venus begun in April, 1777, has been con- 

tinued down to the present time. The hist object of the research 
was to determine the diurnal rotation, for the observations of Cas- 
SINI and BiANCHiNi can leave no doubt but that it has a rotation 
on its axis; the second was the atmosphere of Venus, of tho exist- 
ence of which, after a few months' observations, I could not enter- 
tain the least doubt ; and third, the investigation of the real diani- 
eter. To which may be added an attention to the construction of 
the planet with regard to permanent api)earances, such as might bo 
ascribed to seas, continents, or mountains. 

202 The result of my observations would have been communicated long 

ago if I had not flattered myself with the hope of some better suc- 
cess concerning the diurnal motion of Venus, which has still eluded 
mj' constant attention as far as concerns its peiiod and direction. 
202 Even at this present time I should hesitate to give the following ex- 
tracts if it did not seem incumbent upon me to examine by what; 
accident I came to overlook mountains in this planet ^' of such enor- 
mous height as to exceed four, five, or even six times ihe x>erpendicular 
elevation of ChimboraQO, the highest of our viountains." [Quoted from 
Schroeter, Phil. Trans. 1792, p. 337.] 

202 The same paper contains other particulars concerning Venus and 

Saturn. All of which being things of which I have never taken 
any notice, it will not be amiss to show by what follows that neither 
want of attention nor a deficiency of instruments could occasion my 
not perceiving these mountains of more than 2'3 miles in height; this 
jagged border of Venus; and these flat spherical forms on Saturn. 

203 Before I remark on the rest of the extraordinary relations above men- 

tioued I will give a short extract of my observations of Venus. 
203 Observations from 1777, April 17, to 1793, May 20. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEKSCIIEL's WRITINGS. .);>1 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis ok the Wimtixus ok— Contiiiucd. 

A. D. Yvl. r. . r,., , -.. xTi I- i\ 1-an 

17U;3 8:3 204 The observations aiul .Irawiii.^s (onc'j;ivcn in 1 late \\11, U% 1), 1_"^", 

Till..' 1() -n "■$ •-'4 2;') o(; .28, 2i) ".'.O, and July :?, sliowcd that JeH»« 

lias a mot ion on licraxi^, and as evidently that she has an atmosphere. 

206 1769, Nov. 'M: no satellite visible; if she has one it must be beh.w ^ 

or 9 magnitude. 
200 Two measures of the diameter, 1791, Nov. 24. 

215 My observations show that the at mosphere of Vaius is of nuuh -reater 
cxteutorrefraetivepowerthan as given in the paper [of SriiuoK/rKK.] 

21t>> As to the mountains in Venus, I may venture to say that n.. eye whudi 
is not considerably better than mine, or assisted by nuuh better in- 
struments, will ever get a sight of them. 

217 The diameter of Vinus at the mean distance of the earth is l-^"./.». 
21S The appearauce of the luminous border of Vvunn as I liav.' describe.l 

it, i. e.,mddenly much hrUjhUraU around Iht limb, has not b.'en notiee.l 
by the author wo have referred to. 

218 The cause of this appearance may probably be ascribed to the atmos- 

phere of Venus, which is pr(d)ably replete with matt.-r that relleets 
and refracts light copiously. Ther.don- on the border, where we 
have an obli.iue view, there will be an increase of this app.-arance. 

1794 84 28 Observathus of a quintuple belt on the Planet Saturn. By William 
HERSCilKL, LL. D., F. R. S. Eead December 19, 1.93. 
28 In some of my tbrmer papers I have established the «Pl--''^>^='' J?;;" 
of Saturn and pointed out the motion ot a spot on is disc iron 
the first we infer a rotation ..n its axis; the sec<.nd shows that it 
has such a motion. . , ,. . .• ;. 

My late observations seem to hint to us that the period ot n.tation is 

uot of long duration. 
28 Observations of the <iuintuple belt; see Plate \ I, hg. 1- 

30 Observations of belts on Jupiter; see Plate VI, hg. ~, t'^^ • • 

3 Belts are connected with the rotation of the planets. ..nee h.n t 
appears that the belts of Saturn are very inunerous, ^'^ *^ "^! "^ 
^!piter, and arc also placed iu the direction of the loiiges Oia^ua r 
of the planet, it may not be without some reason that . nf^^ e 
period of the rotation of the former to be short like that ot the 

latter. „ 

31 I have never seen parallel belts on Mars nor on fenus. 

1794 84 39 Aceount of some particulars .^serred duri^o tbelat.^ f^^^^^;!'^^";: 
^^•"^ i:i7.r3, September 5.] By William Hekschel, LL. D., 1 • K. fe. 

Kead January 9, 1794. 

amount to 1''. i .neasured the heights of about 100 

41 [Foot-note.] In 17/9, 1780 1/81, i n*^-^^ ,uethods. Some of these 
mountains ofthe moon by three dtleicnt met lous. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, Dec. 30, 1793. 



552 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCnEL'jS WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Syxopsis of the WiaTtxGS of— Coutinued.. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

171)4 84 48 On the rotation of the planet Saturn upon its axis. By William Her- 
schel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read January 2:3, 1794. 
48 In a late paper I pointed out an analogy which might lead us to sur- 
mise that Saturn had a quick rotation on its axis. I can at jiresent 
announce the reality of that rotation by means of observations of 
154 revolutions of the planet. 
48 The belts of Saturn that I have been observing seem to have under- 
gone no material change for the last two months. 
48 I give the observaticms u^jou which my computations have been 

founded, entire. 
49-59 Observations on the belts of Saturn. 

50 [Foot-note.] In the course of these observations I made 10 new ob- 

ject specula and 14 small plain ones for my 7-foot retlector, having 
found that a 7-foot reflector was adequate to my puri)ose. 

51 [Foot-note.] These objectives were from 84 to 88 inches focus, and 

were used with an eye-glass of -^^ of an inch focus, the power thus 
being from 280 to 293. 

52 I took care to bend my head so as to receive the picture of the belt 

in the same direction upon the retina as I did [foi'uierly]. 

52 [Foot-note.] This was a precaution that occurred to me, as there 

was a possibility that the vertical diameter of the retina might be 
more or less sensible than the horizontal one; but I had no reason 
afterward to suppose that any such ditference really exists. 

53 Observation upon the double ring of Saturn. 

The outer ring is less bright than the inner ring. The inner ring is 
very bright close to thedividing space; andat about half its breadth 
it begins to change color, gradually growing fainter. 

54 There is a dry wind and the telescope will not show objects as dis- 

tinct as when moisture is discharged from the air by the precipita- 
tion of dew. 

55 liemark on the shadoiv of Saturn and its rings. 

On the ring is the shadow of the body. The shadow of the ring upon 
the body of the planet close to the ring is not parallel to the ring 
at the two extremes, but a little bi'oader there than in the middle, 
the ends turning toward the south. 
5G The five old satellites are all seen with a power of GO on a 10-foot re- 
flector. 

57 Observations of the south pole of Saturn and the shadow of the ring. 

The south polar regions of Saturn are a 1 ittle brighter than they used 
to be; they are almost as bright as that belt. The shadow of the 
ringui>on Saturn is perfectly black, like the shadow of Sa/ urn upon 
the ling. The shadow of the ring upon Saturifon each side is bent 
a little southward. 

58 Trial of concave eye-glasses. 

With regard to the fleld of view, they are full as convenient as con- 
vex glasses. 

59 Determination of the pcrh)d of the roiuiion of Saturn. Explanation of 

Plate IX and the method of obtaining the period from the observa- 
tions. 
GO The first trial gives 10'' 15™ 40^ for the time of 1 revolution. 

The second trial gives 10'' IG"' 5P ior the time of 1 revolution. 
61 The third trial gives 10'' 17"' 54' lor the time of 1 revolution. 
The fourth trial gives 10'' 17'" & for the time of 1 revolution. 



BiBLioGRArnv OF iiersciiel's writings. 553 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis ov the Wnrnxos or— Continnod. 
A. D. Vul. r. 

1794 84 (jl I take the mean of tlie lirst two, 10'' Ifi™ liV.T), for the approximate 

rotation period. 
()2-3 Tables for the motion of the e(inator of Salnni. 
G4-5 Comparison of observation with the tables. 

6o We m.iy concUide that the period is cxaet to j;2"', and we need not 
hesitate to lix the rotation of Saturn npon its a:cis as 10'' IG'" O.4. 

Wm. Heusciiel. 
[Dated] .Slon,i,^li, near Windsor, Jan. 22, 1872. 

1795 8.') 4^) On the Xadirc and Coiistniction of tlte Sun and Fired Stars. By William 

Heusciiel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read December 18, 1794. 

4G The sun is the celestial body which should lirst attract our notice. 
u<jt only on its own account but since the fixed stars are, by the 
strictest .analogy, similar bodies. 

4G Newtox has shown that the sun retains the planets of our system in 
their orbits; 

47 Bradley has assigned the velocity of the solar light; Galileo, 
ScuEiNEii, Hevelius, Cassini and othera have ascertained its rota- 
tion and the place of its equator. The Transit of Venus has given 
means to calculate its distance, its real diameter, magnitude, density, 
and the fall of heavy bodies on its surfa.ce. Thus we have already 
a clear idea of the powerful influence of the sun. 

47 I should not wonder if [considering what we know] we were inducdd 
to think that nothing remained to be added; and yet we are still 
very ignorant in regard to the internal construction of the sun. 

47 The spots have been sup^josed to be solid bodies, the smoke of \ol- 

canoes, the scum floating on an ocean of fltiid matter, clouds, opaque 
masses, and to bo many other things. 

48 The sun itself has been called a globe of lire, though perhaps meta- 

phorically. 

48 The faculai have been called luminous vapors, etc. 

48 The light of the sun itself has been supposed invisible and not to be 
perceived except by reflection, though the proofs seem to me to 
amount to no more than saying that we cannot see when rays of 
light do no' enter the eye. But it is timt; now to prolit by tlie obser- 
vations we are in i>osse>:siou of. 

48 I have availed myself of the labors of preceding ast ronomers, but have 

been induced thereto by my own actual observation of the solar 
phenomena. 

49 Following is a short extract of my observations. In 1779 there was 

a spot on the sun, divided into two parts, the largest above 31,000 
miles in diameter. Both together must have extended above 
50,000. The idea of its being occasioned by a volcanic explosion 
ought to be rejected. 

50 We have pretty good reason to believe that all the planets emit light 

in some degree. 

50 Example of the illumination of the moon during an eclipse, which 

could not have been due to the light from the earth. 

51 The dark half of re^M.-* has been seen by dillerent persons. 

51 In regard to the large spot on the sun, I concluded that I viewed the 
real solid body of the sun its.df, of which we rarely see more than 
its shining atmosphere. 

51 Descript ion of a large spot seen in 178J : the spot was plainly depressed 
below the surface of the sun. 



554 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHCL's WRITINGS. 

Hercohel, W.: SvNorsis of tue Writings of— Contiuued. 

A. D. Vol. r. 

1795 83 5i Explanation of the lumiuons shelving sides of a sun-spot. The sun 

may have inequalities [like mountains] on its surface perhaps 500 

or 600 miles high. 
53 In 1791 I observed a large spot on the sun, deiiressed below the level 

of its surface. 

53 An optical deception takes place now and then when we view the 

moon, which is that all the elevated spots on its anrfaco will seem 
to be cavities, and vice versa. 

54 How very ill would these observations agree with the ideas of solid 

bodies bobbing up and down in a liery liquid? with the smoke of 
volcanoes or the scum upon an ocean ? 
54-58 Observations in detail from 1792, Aug. 26, to 1794, Oct. 13. 

54 1792, Sept. 2. Two spots on the sun were seen with the naked eye. 

55 It may not be impossible, as light is a transparent fluid, that the sun's 

real surface may also now and then be perceived, as we see the 
shape of the wick of a candle through its flame. 

56 Faculae seem generally to accompany the spots, and they are certainly 

elevations on the surface. 

57 The sun cannot be so distinctly viewed with a small aperture and 

faint darkening glasses as with a large aperture and stronger ones. 
57 About all the spots the shining matter seems to have been disturbed, 
and is uneven, lumpy, and zig-zagged in an irregular manner. 

57 I call the spots black, not that they are entirely so, but to distinguish 

them. There is not one of them to-day which is not at least partly 
covered over with whitish and unequally bright nebulosity. 

58 If the brightness of the sun is occasioned by the lucid atmosphere the 

intensity of the brightness must be less where it is depressed. 
The results of these observations are : The sun has a very extensive 
atmosphere, which consists of various elastic fluids more or less 
lucid and transparent, and of which the lucid one is that which fur- 
nishes us with light. 

59 The manner in which I suppose the lucid fluid of the sun to be gen- 

erated in its atmosphere may be better .understood from an anal- 
ogy drawn from the generation of clouds in our own atmosphere. 
[This analogy is stated.] 

60 That the emission of light must waste the sun is not a difficulty that 

can be opposed to our hypothesis. 

60 Many of the operations of nature are carried on in her great labora- 

tory which we cannot comprehend, but now and then we see some 
of the tools with which she is at Avork. [The many telescopic com- 
ets may restore to the sun what is lost by the emission of light.] 

61 According to my theory a dark spot in the sun is a place in its atmos- 

phere which happens to be free from luminous decomjiositions, and 
faculaj are more copious mixtures of such fluids as decompose each 
other. 

62 The penumbra which attends the spots being depressed more or less 

to about half way between the solid body of the sun and the ui)per 
part of the regions where luminous decomjiositions take place, must 
of course be fainter than other parts. 
62 The regions where the luminous solar clouds are formed, adding thereto 
the elevation of the faculae, cannot be less than 1,843 miles nor much 
more than 2,765 miles. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCIIEl's WRITINGS. 555 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wkitings oi.— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

17 J5 85 02 Wc ouglit to comparo these elevations, not to the elonds of onr at- 
mosphere, but to the elevation of the aurora borealis. 
G2 The density of the solar clouds though very great may not be excced- 

iugly more so than that of the aurora. 
02 The opaque body of the sun wc know to be of great solidity, and wo 

surmise it to bo diversilied with mountains and valleys. 
G3 This way of considering the sun removes the great dissimilarity be- 
tween its condition and that of the other great bodies of the sys- 
tem. The sun then appears to be nothing else than a very eminent, 
large, and lucid planet * * * most probably also inhabited by 
beings whose organs are adapted to the peculiar circumstances of 
that vast globe. 

63 The heat produced by the sun's rays on the earth is so considerable 

that it may be objected that the surface of the siui nnist be scorched 
up beyond all conception. 

64 This objection answered by analogies with terrestrial circumstances. 

05 I will now show that our moon is probably inhabited. 

60 The moon is in many ways analogous to the earth, and to complete 
the analogy it is only needed that it should be inhabited. To this 
may bo objected that we perceive no largo seas there, that its 
atmosphere is extremely rare, that there is no rain, etc. 

06 These objections considered. 

07 Suppose an inhabitant of the moon who has not properly considered 

such analogical reasonings as might induce him to surmise that our 
earth is inhabited, to give it as his opinion that the use of the earth 
is to illuminate the moon, when direct daylight cannot be had, etc. 
67 Suppose the inhabitants of the moons of Jupiter, Saturn, and [ I ranus] 
to look upon their primary planets merely as so many attractive 
centers to keep together their orbits, etc., etc. 

67 These considerations ought to make the inhabitants of the planets 

wiser than we have supposed those of their satellites to l>e. A\ e 
surely ought not to say "the sun is merely an attraclive center 

68 ThatTti'rs are suns can hardly admit of a doubt. The sun turns on 

its axis; so do variable stars ; most probably all stars. Stai^ have 
spots like the sun ; in some stars wc know these spots to be chaiige- 

68 Anall!^-V may induce us to conclude that each of these stars is accom- 

panFed by a group of planets. If these suns themselves are primary 
planets we may see some thousands of them with onr own eyes, 
and millions by the telescope, while the same analogy remains in 
re"-ard to the planets which these suns may support. 

69 The "idea of suns or stars being vierdu the supporters ot systems ot 

planets is not to bo admitted as a general one. 
69 The stars in very compressed clusters are so close that oven at a great 
distance of the cluster there will not be room for the crowding in of 
those planets for whose support these stars may be suppose.l to 

69 As'an i;istance, I take clusters Nos. 26, 28, and 35 of the VI class, and 

nlso verv close double stars. , , ^i i. • 

70 Alslm irae ,wt, of ,he milky way the star, are .e crow.lM tbn m 

I'rnioutc, ol times no less than 258,000 .ta,, ,.a>»ed '"'^^''^ 'f 
field of my telescope [in R. A. lU"^ oo u i^ , x>. , 



556 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschcl, XT.: Sv^'orsis or xiii: Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1795 to 71 It seems, therefore, upon tlie whole not improbable that in many casea 
stars are united in such close systems as not to leave much room for 
the orbits of planets or comets ; and that consequently many stars, 
unless we would make them mere useless brilliant points, may them- 
selves be lucid planets, perhaps unattended by satellites. 

71 Postscript. The following observations of the sun are added. They 
are decisive in regard to one of the conditions of the lucid matter 
of the sun. 1794, Nov. 20. Tbo sun is mottled everywhere, equally 
at poles and equator. This is owing to inequalities in its surface. 

71 The hicid substance of the sun is neither a liquid nor an clastic lluid, 
as is evident from its not instantly lilliug up the cavities of the 
spots, etc. It exists, therefore, in the manner of lucid clouds swim- 
■ ming in the transparent atmosphere of the sun; or, rather, of lu- 
minous decompositions taking place within that atmosphere. 

1795 85 ^V7 Description of a fortij-fooirejlect'mj telescope. By William Herschel, 
LL.D., F. E. S. Read Jane 11, 1795. 

347 When I resided at Bath I had long been acquainted with the theory 

of optics and mechanics and wanted only that experience so neces- 
sary in the practical part of these sciences. This I acquired by 
degrees at that place, where in my leisure hours by way of amusj- 
ment I made several 2-foot, 5-foot, 7-foot, 10-foot and 20-foot New- 
tonian telescDpes, besides others of the Gregorian form of 8, 12, 18 
inches and 2, ?>, 5 and 10 feet focal length. 
34S In this way I made not less than 200 7-foot, 150 more 10-foot, and 
about 80 20-foot mirrors, not. to mention the Gr<gorian telescopes. 

348 The number of stands I invented for these telescopes it would not bo 

easy to assign. My Newtonian stand was contrived about 1778. 

348 In 178 L I began to construct a 30- foot aerial rellector, and having made 

a stand for it I cast the mirror 3G inches in diameter, which was 
cracked in cooling. I cast it a second time, and the furnace which 
I had built in ray house broke. Soon after, the Georgian Planet 
was discovered [and observations on this interrupted the making 
of new telescopes. ] 

349 In 1783 I finished a very good 20-foot reflector, and in 1785 I began to 

construct the 40- foot. 

349 In the whole of the apparatus none but common workmen were em- 

ployed, for I made drawings of every part of it, and directed every 
jierson's labor, though sometimes there were not less thau 40 em- 
ployed at th(» same time. There was no interruption except my re- 
moval from Clay Hall to Slough. 

350 The 40-foot speculum was x)ut into the tube and first used 1787, Feb. 

19. The first mirror being too thin, etc., could not receive a good 
figure, and a second was cast 1783, Jan. 20, which cracked in cool- 
ing. It was recast Feb. 10, and on Oct. 24 it had a good figure and 
I observed Saturn with it ; but not being satisfied I worked upon it 
till Aug. 27, 1789. Aug. 28, 1789, I discovered a sixth satellite of 
Saturn. I date the finishing of the telescope from that time. 

350 Description of the telescope. See Plates XXIV to XLII. 

350-365 The foundation and stand. 

365 The tube : it is 39 feet 4 inches loug, 4 feet 10 inches diameter, made 
of iron. 

377 Motions of the telescope. 



BIBLIOGRArHY OF IIEKSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 557 

Ilerschel W.: Synopsis of the Writin-gs of— Contiuued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1795 85 378 Tiuder and setting quadrant. 

380 I liavc in 1789 many times taken up Saturn two or three hours hefore 
its meridian passage and kept it in view with the greatest facility 
till two or three hours aftc^r the passage, with a single assistant. 
382 The method of observing is by what I have called the front view. 

382 The observing chair is fastened to the instrument. 

383 The aperture of the telescope is 4 feet. 

384 In making sweeps several conveniences are reciuired [as given]. 

385 A speaking pipe was led from the observer to the recorder, etc. 
387 Right ascension apparatus. 

390 Polar distance machine : the sidereal clock by Siikltox. 

390 Polar distance piece [described]. 

396 In 1783, when I began my sweeps, no catalogue of stars in zones ex- 
isted. I therefore gave a pattern to my indefaiigable assistant, 
Carolina Herschel, who brought all the British catalogue into 
zones of 1° each from 45 N. P. D. to the horizon, and put the right 
ascensions in time. This catalogue was afterwards completed to 
the pole in zones of .5°. 

398 A zone clock described. 

403 The construction of the great mirror is as in fig. 4(). The metal is 49^ 

inches in diameter ; 48 inches are polished. Its thickness, which is 
equal throughout, is 3i inches ; its weight when cast was 2,118 lbs. 

404 It is swung in a ring. 

406 The surface is protected from damp by a tin cover. 
409 Method of mounting the eye-pieces. \Vm. Herschel. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, May IS, 1795. 
Plates. 
408 Plate XXIV: General View: "To George the Third, King of Great 
Britain &c. This View of a Forty- Foot Telescope constructed 
under his Royal Patronage, is with permission, most humbly in- 
scribed, by his Majesty's very devoted and Loyal Subject, and most 
grateful obedient Servant, William Herschel." 
1796 86 133 Additional oUervafiom on the Comet. [1796, I.] By William Her- 
schel, LL. D., F. R. S. [Read November 12, 179o.] 
1796 86 166 On the method of ohm-ving the changes that happen to the fixed stars ; ^ci^h 
some remarks on the stahiliti, of the Light of our Sun. To which ts added 
a Catalogue of Comparative Brightness for ascertaining the Permanency 
of tlie Lustre oj Stars. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read 
February 25, 1796. 
166 The earliest observers noted the ditTerent brilliancy of stars and have 
classed them into magnitudes. Brightness and [apparent] size 
were taken as synonymous terms, atul may still be used as such, 
notwithstanding the latter must be a consequence of the former. 
166 If we suppose the stars to be about the size of our sun and at nearly 
an eqiial distance from ns and from each other, those which form 
the first enclosure about us will appear brighter than the rest, and 
there can only be a small number of them. 

166 This hypothesis is nearly confirmed by observation, as may be seen 

by looking over a globe and applying a pair of compasses op. ned 
to 60^. Eleven pairs of 1st mag. stars are about 60° apart. 

167 Eight other pairs are near enough to 60^ to support this hypothesis. 

4h 



558 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

IT'JG H6 1G7 A second layer of stars will be more extensive, etc., etc. 

168 The hypothesis of au equality and an equal distribui iou of stars is too 

far from being strictly true to be laid down as an unerring guide. 
163 The stars of the 1st and 2d class, scrupulously examined, prove that 
we must admit them to be either of difterent sizes or placed at dif- 
ferent distances. Both varieties undoubtedly take place. 

168 Thus it ajipears that in the classiticatiou of stars into magnitudes 

there is either no natural standard or none that can be satisfactory. 

169 If any dependence could be placed upon the method of magnitudes, 

it would follow that certain of Flamsteed's stars had undergone a 
change in their lustre. [Examples given.] 

170 Flamsteed did not compare the stars to each other, but referred each 

of them separately to its own imagiuarj^ standard. 
A short inquiry into the coniidence to be given to the method of mag- 
nitudes may be of considerable use. 

170 In Flamsteed's observations an error of 1"' in the brighter classes and 

1|™ in the fainter would hardly deserve attention. 

171 In comparing the observations of different astronomers larger errors 

may be expected. 

172 Example. From Flamsteed's and Lacaille's observabicms of /? 

Leoiiis we may conclude that this star is now less brilliant than for- 
merly. 

173 I place each star, instead of giving its magnitude, into a short series 

[sequence] constructed upon the order of brightness of the nearest 
proper stars. 

174 The Greek letters now affixed to the names of stars do not point out 

their order of brightness, except for the few brightest stars of each 
constellation. [Examples.] 

175 A doubt may arise whether any succession of brightness might be 

argued from the very first, second, or third letters of the ali)habet, 
when we find them now arranged thus, as ft ixCassiopece, fi aCancri, 
y ft Aquilce, etc. 

177 Lalande, Pigott, and Goodericke have used the method I propose 

in special cases. 

178 Simple as my method is in principle, it is very laborious in its pro- 

gress. I began to use it 14 years .ago. 
178 My first design was to draw each whole constellation into one series. 
Accordingly I began, July 16, 1781, to arrange the stars in Ophiuchus, 
thus : a, ft, d, Z, rj, k, y, e. The defect of this arrangement was 
that we do not always have a proper connection of the steps of the 
series; the intervals being too great in some cases, too small in 
others. 

178 To get over these difficulties I marked the stars by degrees, three in 

a magnitude 1', 1", 1'" ; 2', 2", 2'", etc., as "May 12, 1783; order of 
the stars in Bootis " a V, e 2", ?/ 2'", y ^ 8 'i', etc." 

179 Difricnlties with this plan. 

180 Other methods tried. 

181 The method finally adopted explained. [The method of sequences.] 

183 Difficulties in carrying out the method stated. 

184 These observations are of importance, as will appear when we remem- 

ber the great number of alterations of stars whicb have certainly 
happened within two centuries. 

185 Who would not wish to know the permanency of the lustre of our 

Sun ? If it be allowed to admit the similarity of stars with our sun, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 559 

Hercchcl, W.: Syxopsis or the Wiutixgs of— Continued. 

A.D. Vol. P. 

liow necessary will it be to take notice of the fate of our neighbor- 
ing suns in order to guess at that of our own. That star -which wo 
call the Sun may to-morrow begin to undergo a gradual decay of 
brightness, like /i Leonis, a Ceti, a Draconis, d Ursw Majoris, and 
many others that will be mentioned in my catalogues. 

179G 8-') 18G It may suddenly increase like the wonderful star in the back of 
Cassiopca^s chair, or gradually como on like fi dcminorum, fj Ccti, 
C Sa<jUtaru, etc. ; or it may turn into a periodical star of 2.5 days' 
duration, as Algol is one of 3 days, 5 Ccphci of 5 days, etc. 

186 Perhaps the easiest way of accounting for past changes in our cli- 

mates is to surmise that our sun has been formerly sometimes more 
or sometimes less bright than now. 

187 A method of ascertamiug the quantity or intenseness of solar light 

might be contrived. Perhaps the thermometer alone might be suf- 
ticieut. 
187 Introductory Eemai-ks and Explanations of the Arrangement and Charac- 
ters used in the following Catalogue. 
This first catalogue contains 9 constellations; the rest will follow. 

190 All the observations have been made in very fine nights when there 

was no suspicion of any whitish haziness. 

191 All observations upon stars of any considerable magnitude have been 

made with the naked eye. 

191 Wherever I have used magnitudes I have adopted Flamsteed's scale. 

192 From the numerous differences wo have reason to suspect many 

changes in the lustre of stars since Flamsteed's time. 
192 Summary of difierences with Flamsteed. 
194 I. Catalogue of the comparative brightness of the Stars. 
212 Notes. These contain errata in I'lamsteed's atlas and ca alogue. 
226 Wm. IIeuschel. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, Jan. 1, 1793. 

1796 8G 452 On the j)eriodical star a Uerculis ; with remarks tending to establish the 
rotatory motion of the Stars on their axes. To which is added a second 
catalogue of the comparative Brightness of the stars. By William 
Heksciiel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 9, 1796. 

452 lu my first catalogue I announced a HercuVis as a periodical star. It 

has been compared with several standard stars but chicily with k 
Ophiuchi. 

453 Table of the variation of light observed in a (Fl. 64) Ilereulls, com- 

pared to K (Fl. 27) Ophiuclii. 

454 The period is about GO days and a quarter. Greater accuracy can 

only be obtained by future observations. 

455 On the Botatory motion of the Stars on their Axes. 

455 We ought not to be satisfied with enrolling the discovery of one more 
periodical star among the list of facts we are acquainted with ; for 
this would indeed be of no great consequence. 

455 Darker spots on the surface of stars will account for all the phenomena 

of periodic stars so satisfactorily that we certainly need not look 
out for any other cause. The objections which may bo made are: 
the periods in Algol, [i Lyra, S Cephei, and rj Antinoi are short 3, 
5,6, and 7, etc., days; those of o Ceti, the star in IJydra and in 
Cygnus are long; 331, 394, and 497 days. 

456 Hitherto we have had but 7 periodical stars [some of very short, some 



500 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS, 

HcrsCilcl, "W.: Synopsis of the Writings of — Continued. 

A.D. Vol. P. 

of very long periods] ; the discovery of a Uerculis as a periodical 
star with a jieriod of GO days supplies a link in the chain and re- 
moves the objection that arose from the vacancy. 

1793 86 456 Another instance of slow rotation is the .5th satellite of Saturn IJape- 
tiis'], which revolves on its axis in 79 days. 
457 The rotations of the sun, moon, and some of the planets are known 
by their spots ; [ Ja/;e<«s3 is too small and too distant to allow its spots 
to bo observed. But what we can no longer perceive we can now 
supply by rational arguments. The change in the light of the satel- 
lite proves the rotation ; the rotation proves the existence of the 
spots. A still more extended similarity between the sun and the 
stars offers itself, by the spots which must also be admitted to take 
place. 

457 There are reasons to surmise that 34 Cygni is a periodical star of 18 

years' return [see Phil. Trans., 1786, p. 201]. 

458 When the biography of the stars, if I may be allowed the expression, 

is arrived to more perfection, we may then possibly not only be still 
more assured of their rotatory motion, but also perceive that they 
have other movements, such as nutations of their axes, etc. 

458 Memorandum relating to the following Catalogue. I find the magnitudes 

of Flamsteed so inconsistent that I shall not continue to note the 
deviations between my observations and his. 

459 II. Catalogue of the comparative brightness of the Stars. 
477 Xotes. 

Wm. Hersciiel. 
[Dated] Slough near Windsor, June 1, 1796. 

1797 87 293 A Third Catalogue of the comparative Brightness of the Stars ; with an in- 
troductorij account of an Index to Mr. Fi.amsteed's Observations of the 
Fixed Stars contained in the second volume of the Uistoria Ccclestis. 
To ivhich are added several useful results derived from that Index. By 
William Hersciiel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read May 18, 1797. 

293 In my earliest reviews of the heavens I found many of the stars of 

the British Catalogue missing, and took it for granted that they 
were lost. The deviation of many stars from the magnitudes there 
given I looked ui:)on as changes in the lustre of tbo stars. I there- 
fore wished to be able to refer to the original observations upon 
which the Catalogue was founded, and recommended to my sister 
the arduous task. 

294 She began th(i work about 20 months ago, and has lately finished 

it. 

294 Description of the manner of making the index. 

295 Examples of its use. 

296 General results to bo obtained from an inspection of the index [with 

regard to Flamsteed's errors]. 

297 Additional notes to the stars in the First Catalogue of the comparative bright- 

ness of the Stars. 
301 Same for the Second Catalogue. 

307 III. Catalogue of the comparative brightness of the Stais. 
321 Notes. 

Wm. Hersciiel. 
324 [Dated] Slough, near Windsor, April 12, 1797. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEKSCHEL's WRITINGS. oGl 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of tiik Wiutings of — Continiu-d. 

A.D Vol. P. 

1797 87 332 Observations of the cliaiKjcablc Brii/IiinesH of the SdtetlUea of Jupitir, and 
of the Variation in their apparent ilagnitndef< ; with a Determination of 
the Time of their rotatory Motions on their Axes. To which is added a 
Measure of the Diameter of the Second Satellite, and an Estimate of the 
comparative size of all the Four. l)y ^^'ILI.IA^I IlKKsciiKr,, I.L. D., 
F. R. S. R(-';ul June 1, 1797. 

1797 87 332 I have, when othci- pursuits would permit, iittendpd to i-very circuin- 
.stiince tluit could forward the discovery of the rotation of tho 
secondary planets. Since I have determined by observation that 
Japetus rotates according to the law obeyed by our moon, it seems 
natural to conclude that all the secondary planets do the same; 
couseciuently, a few good observations that coincide with this 
theory will go a good way towards conlirming it. 

333 I also desired to examine the nature and construction of the satellites. 

Here phenomena occurred that may be thought remarkable and 
perhaps contradictory. So far from attempting to lessen the forco 
of such animadversions, I shall be the hrst to point out difticulties 
in order that future observations may be made to resolve them. 

334 Observations : A remarkable Conjunction of two satellites of Jupiter. II 

and III cannot be separated with a power of 330 on a 7-foot reHector. 

334 Intenseness of Light and Color of the Satellites. 1 is of a very intense, 

bright, white, and sbming light. It is brighter than II or IV (not 
larger). IV is inclining to red. It is nearly as bright as II. II is 
of a dull ash color. Ill is very Avliite. 

335 Brightness and diameter distinguished. 

335 Diameter of the second Satellite by entering on the Disc of the Planet. 
339 The Brightness of the Satellites compared to the Belts and Disk of the 

Planet. 
339-342 [Estimates of comparative magnitudes of I, II, III, IV.] 

342 Before wo draw any conclusions from these observations, we ought to 

take notice of the many causes of deception, etc. The method of 
comparing the brightness is not subject to so great errors as esti- 
mating this in terms of an ideal standard. But the situation of the 
satellites with respect to the planet introduces a new source of 
error. 

343 Objections to both low and high magniliers. 

344 It appears that considerable changes take place in the brightness of 

the satellites, and also a change in their apparent magnitude. 

344 The tirst fact proves that the satellites have a rotatory motion upon 

their axes of the same duration with their revolutions about the 
primary planet. The second either shows that the bodies of the 
satellites arc not spherical, or that some parts of the discs reilect 
hardly any light. 

345 Discussion of the observations to show that the satellites revolve on 

their axes iu the same time that they revolve about the planet. The 
observations exteml from 1794, .July 19, to 179(3, November 3. 

34G Table of the positions of the four satellites at the time of the observations. 

347 Method of reduction. 

349 Summary of the observations relating to the color of the sat.dlites. 

I is white, but sometimes more intensely so than others. 

II is white, bluish, and ash-colored. 

350 III is always white, but the color is of dilTerent intensity m dillereut 

situations. 
S. :\Iis. .",1 30 



662 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Coutiuued. 
A. B. Vol. p. 

IV is dusky, dingy, inclining to orange, reddish, and ruddy at differ- 
ent times ; and these tints may induce us to surmise that this satel- 
lite has a considerable atmosphere. 
1797 87 350 The diameter of the second satellite is 0". 87 by 1 obs. 

351 III is considerably larger than any of the rest ; I is a little larger than 
II, and nearly of the size of IV ; II is a little smaller than I and IV, 
or the smallest of all. 

• Wm. Hekschel. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, April 30, 1797. 

179S 88 47 Oa fl^e discovery of four additional satellites of the Gcorgium Sidus, The 
retrograde motion of its old Satellites announced, and the cause of their 
Disappearance at certain distances from the Planet explained. By Wil- 
liam Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read December 14, 1797. 

47 I have lately recomputed my observations of the satellites of [ Uranusi 

with improved tables from 1787 to now. I laid down a set of the- 
orems relating to the motions of these satellites ; I calculated tables 
and devised means for checking the computations. 

48 I here announce that the motion of the Georgian satellites is retro- 

grade. 
48 From my miscellaneous observations, the existence of four additional 
satellites will be proved ; the observations which tend to ascertain 
the existence of rings to the planet not being satisfactorily sup- 
ported, this surmise will be given up, or left till sui^erior instruments 
are provided. 

48 Observations of stars near the planet are given under the head Re- 

ports, and of the new satellites under the head Observations. 

49 Investigation of additional satellites. 

58 Arguments upon the Ecports and Observations. 

An interior satellite. [The observations described.] 

62 An intermediate satellite. [The observations described.] 

63 An exterior satellite. [The observations described.] 

64 The most distant satellite. [The observations described.] 

66 The arrangement of the satellites together will be thus : 
First satellite, the interior one of Jan. 18, 1790. 
Second satellite, the nearest old one of Jan. 11, 1787. 
Third satellite, the intermediate one of Mar. 26, 1794. 
Fourth satellite, the farthest old one of Jan. 11, 1787. 
Fifth satellite, the exterior one of Feb. 9, 1790. 

Sixth satellite, the most distant one of Feb. 28, 1794. 

67 Observations and reports tending to the discovery of one or more rings of 

the Georgian Planet and the flattening of its Polar Begions. 

69 Remarks iipon the foregoing observations. 

70 The observation of the 26th Feb., 1792, seems to be very decisive 

against the existence of a ring, etc., and I venture to affirm that 
the planet has no ring in the least resembling those of Saturn. 

70 The flattening of the poles of the planet seems to be sufficiently as- 

certained. 

71 This being admitted, we may conclude that the Georgian Planet also 

has a rotation on its axis of a considerable degree of velocity. 

71 Reports and observations relating to the light and size of the Georgian satel- 
lites, and to their vanishing at certain distances from the Planet. 

73 Remarks on the foregoing observations. 

73 Small stars near the planet lose much of their lustre. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS 503 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wkitixgs of— ConlimuMl. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1798 88 74 The satollitt's Ijcconio rogiilarly invisihlo at ccrtaiu distances from 

the planet. 

76 The first satellite [ 77/««(r(] usually vanishes at 18". 
The second satellite lOberonl usually A-anishes at iiO". 

In uncommon and beautiful nights the fust has once been seen at 
13".8 and the 2d at 17".:?. 

77 A dense atmosphere to the planet would account for this if it were 

not that the satellites are lost as well in the nearest half of their 
orbits as in the farthest. A satellite cannot be obscured by an at- 
mosphere that is behind it. 

77 The light of Jupiter and Saturn is diffused for several minutes [o/ arc] 

all around them. Their satellites are bright, and having much 
light to lose they comparatively lose but little. [ Uranus'] is very 
faint ; its satellites are very nearly the dimmest objects that can bo 
seen in the heavens, so that they cannot bear any considerable 
diminution of their light without becoming invisible. 

78 The distances at which the satellites vanish will show their relative 

brightness. The first satellite [ Titania'] is rather brighter than the 
second [^Ohcron']. The interior satellit(! cannot bo much inferior in 
brightness to these. 
78 Periodical Revolutions of the JVew Satellites. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, September 1, 1797. 

1799 89 1'21 A Fourth Catalof/ue of the Comparative Brightness of the Stais. By Wil- 

I.IAJI Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read February 21, 1799. 
121 Catalogue. 
138 Xotes. 

[Dated] Slough near Windsor, ,Tan. 28, 1799. 

1800 90 49 On the poicer of penciraiing into Space hi/ Telescopes; with a comparative 

Determination of the Extent of that Power in natural Vision, and in Tel- 
escopes of various Sizes and Constructions; illustrated by select observa- 
tions. By WiixiAM Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read November 
21, 1799. 
49 The i)ower of penetrating into space by telescopes is very different 
from magnifying power, and ought to be considered separately. 

49 Lumiuoiis bodies as here defined arc such as throw out light, what- 

ever may be the cause of it, including those that shine by reflection 
only, and we may distinguish the class of self-luminous bodies when 
it is necessary. 

50 The question wiU arise whether luminous bodies scatter light in all 

directions equally ; but until we know more of the powers that emit 
and reflect light we shall probably remain ignorant on this head. 

50 What I mean to say relates only to the i)hysical points into which we 
may suppose the surfaces of luminous bodies to be divided. When 
we consider their whole construction the question assumes another 
form. 

50 We know from experience that light, flame, and Liminous gases are 
penetrable to the rays of light. 

50 [Foot-note.] An experiment given to i)rove Ibis. 

51 It follows therefore that every part of the sun's disc cannot appear 

equally luminous to a given observer on account of the unequal 
depth of its atmosphere. (See Phil. Trans., 1795, p. K!.) 



564 BIBIJOGRAPHY Ob' HERSCHEL'S WKITINGfS. 

Herschel, W,: Synopsis of the AVuitings of— Contiuued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1800 90 51 The greatest iuequalities iu the brightness of luminous bodies will be 
owing to their natural texture. . 
51 Brightness, I ascribe to bodies that throw out light, and those that 
throw out most are the brightest. 

51 Let the whole quantity of light thrown out by a luminous body be, L ; 

suppose the surface of this body to be composed of N luminous phys- 
ical points. Let C stand for the mean copiousness of light thrown 
•out from all the physical points of a luminous object. Let c express 
the copiousness of emitting light of any number of physical iioints 
that agree in this respect, and let their number be n ; similarly I 
define c' and n^ for another set of j)oints, and so on. Then L = en 
4- cijji -{- d^n" + etc., and L -:- N = C. 

52 An objection to this answered. 

5'2 The brightness of an object is truly defined by CN. The brightness 
arising from the great value of C may be called the intrinsic bright- 
ness ; that from the great value of N the aggregate brightness ] the 
absolute brightness is in all cases CN. 

53 In finding an expression for the apjiearance of luminous objects at any 

assigned distance we must leave out of account every part of CN 
which is not applied for the purposes of vision. L representing the 
whole light thrown out by CN, let I be that part of it used in vision 
either by the eye or the telescope. 

53 The equation of light, in this sense, is CN = /. 

53 The expression for its quantity at the distance of the observer D will 
be I H- D". 

53 In natural vision I undergoes a considerable change by the opening 
or contracting of the pupil of the eye. 

53 In some experiments on light made at Bath iu 1780 I [noticed the in- 
creased power of vision after staying some time in a dark room]. 

53 The opening of the iris is probably not the only cause of seeing better 

after remaining long in the dark, but the tranquillity of the retina 
may render it more fit to receive impressions. 

54 This is supported by telescopic vision, for in my sweeps of 4, 5, or 6 

hours' duration my eye became so sensitive that when a star of the 
3d magnitude came towards the field of view I had to withdraw my 
eye in order not to injure the delicacy of vision. The opening of 
the iris was not the cause, as the diameter of the 'optic pencil was 
no more than 0.12 inch. 

54 With the 40-foot telescope the appearance of Sirius announced itself 

like the dawn of the morning till this brilliant star at last entered 
the field of the telescope with all the splendor of the rising sun, and 
forced me to take my eye from that beautiful sight. 

55 I found the eye, coming from the light, required nearly 20 minutes 

before it could see delicate objects, and that the view of a star of 
the 2d or 3d magnitude would so disorder it that nearly the same 
time was required to reestablish its tranquillity. 

55 If a is the opening of the iris and A the aperture of the telescope -^^ 

A^L 

is the light admitted by the eye, and -t^t will be that admitted by 

the telescope. 
55 Whenever the pencil of light from the telescope is larger than the 
aperture of the pupil, light is lost. If m be the magnifying power, 
A-^m ought not to exceed a. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIEKSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 565 

Herschel W.: Byxopsis of tiik Wiutings of — CVmlinned. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1800 90 55 Objection to tLc foregoing. I. being proved that an object is equally 
bright at all distances, it may be urged that in a telescope the dif- 
ferent distance of stars can be of no account with regard to their 
brightness, and that we must consequently bo able to see stars 
which are many thousands of times farther than Sirius from us. 
5G The origin of such objectious is in want of distinction in the two sorts 
of brightness, which have been discriminated by intrinsic and abso- 
lute brightness. 

56 The demonstrations of ojjticians with regard to what I call intrinsic 

briglituess, will not oppose what I affirm of absolute brightness. 

57 Though the sun, to an observer on Saturyi, must be as bright as it is 

here ou the earth, it cannot be meant that an inhabitant standing 
on the planet Saturn and looking at the sun should absolutely receive 
as much light from it as one on eartli receives when he sees it. 
57 The picture of the sun on the retina of the Saturnian observer is as 
intensely illuminated as that ou the retina of the terrestrial astron- 
omer, but it should be remembered that the sun ou Saturii appears 
to be a hundred times less than on the earth ; and that conse- 
quently, though it may there be intrinsically as l)right, it must here 
be absolutely an hundred times brighter. 

57 This reasoning is entirely applicable to the stars; and the light we 

aH 
can receive from the stars is truly expressed by -p^- 

58 Hence I am authorized to conclude that stars cannot be seen by the 

naked eye when they are more than seven or eight times farther 
from us than Sirius, and that they become, comparatively speak- 
in"-, very soon invisible with our best instruments. 

58 With' respect to the naked eye, the power of penetrating into space 

is limited. Among reflecting luminous objects our penetrating 
powers are sufficiently ascertained. An object seen by reflected 
light at a greater distance than the Georgian Planet, it has never 
been allowed us to perceive. 

59 The range of natural vision with self-luminous objects is incompara- 

bly more extended, but less accurately to be ascertained. 

59 The'o-eneral supposition is admitted that stars, at least those which 
seem to be promiscuously scattered, are probably one with another 
of a certain magnitude. 

59 [Foot-note.] The PMl Trans, for the year 1796, page 166, 10/, 168 is 
referred to for support of this assumption. 
The difference in briglituess between Sirius, Arcturus, a Cygni, and 
/3 Tanri, does not seem to alter the dimensions of the iris; a, there- 
fore, becomes a given quantity and may be left out. 
Admitting that the latter of these stars are probably at double the 
distance of the former, we can have no other guide to lead us a 
third step than the before-mentioned hypothesis; in consequence of 
which it is probable that stars of the third magnitude may he 
placed about three times as far from us as those of the first. 
Our third step forward into space may therefore very properly he 
said to fall on the pole star, on r Cygni, e Bootis, and all those of 

the same order. ^^a^t ia 

The difterence between these and the stars of the rreceding order is 
much less striking than that between the stars of the first and sec- 
ond magnitudes. So the calculated ratio of the brightness of a star 



60 



61 



61 



62 



566 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Contiuued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

of the sixth maguitude to that of one of the seventh, is but httle 
more than IJ to 1. 

1800 90 62 The faintness of the stars of the 7th magnitude gives us little room 
to believe that we can penetrate much farther into space with ob- 
jects of no greater brightness than stars. 
63 I think, from the faintness of the stars of the 7th magnitude, and 
from the foregoing considerations, we are authorized to conclude that 
no star, eight, nine, or at most ten times as far from us as Sirius, 
can possibly be perceived by the natural eye. 

63 Where the light of single stars falls short, however, the united lustre 

of sidereal systems will still be jjerceived. We easily see the united 
lustre of the stars in the sword-haudlo of Perseus, though the light 
of no one of the single stars could have aifected the unassisted eye. 

64 Perhaps, among the farthest objects that can make an impression on 

the eye, when not assisted by telescopes, may be reckoned the 
nebula in the girdle of Andromeda discovered by Simon Map.ius in 
1G12. 

64 It has been shown that brightness or light is to the naked ej'e truly 

represented by — .; in a telescoi^e, therefore, the light admitted will 

be expressed by --— . Hence it would follow that the artificial 

power of ^penetrating into space should be to the natural one as A 
to a. But this proportion must be corrected by the practical defi- 
ciency in light reflected and transmitted. 

65 As the result of many experiments with plane mirrors, polished like 

my large ones, and of the same composition of metal, I find we shall 
have, in a telescope of my construction, with one reflection, 63,796 
rays, out of 100,000 come to the eye. In the Newtonian form, 
with a single eye-lens, 42,901 ; and, with a double eye-glass, 40,681 
will remain for vision. 

65 Since the brightness of luminous objects is inversely as the squares 

of the distances, it follows that the penetrating power must be a3 
the square roots of the light received by the eye. 

66 In natural vision, therefore, this power is truly expressed by VWT, 

and since we have now also obtained a jiroper correction ar, we must 
apply it to the incident light with telescopes. 
66 In the Newtonian and other constructions where two specula are 
used there will also be some loss of light on account of the inter- 
position of the small speculum ; therefore, putting h for its diameter, 
we have a- h" f<^i" the real incident light. This being corrected as 



above, will give the general exx)ression V'jc/x A- &3 for the same 

power in telescopes. 
66 Then, if we put natural light Z = 1, and divide by a, we have the 

general form '^•■^" "' for the penetrating power of all sorts of 

a 
telescopes, compared to that of the natural eye as a standard. 

66 In the followiug investigation we .shall suppose a = two-tenths of an 

inch. 

67 "In the year 1776, when I had erected a telescope of 20 foot focal 

length, of the Newtonian construction, one of its effects by trial 
was, that when towards evening, on account of darkness, the nat- 
ural eye could not penetrate far into space, the telescope possessed 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. ~)G1 

Herschel, W.; Synopsis ok tiii-. WinriNOS of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

tbiit power siiOicieutly to sIr-w by tbo dial of a distant church 
steepki what o'clock it was, notwithstanding tiio naked cyo couhl 
no longer see the steeple itself. Here I only speak of the penetrat- 
ing power ; for though it might recpiire magnifying power to see tho 
figures on the dial, it could require none to see the steeple." 
The space-penetrating power of this telescope was 38.91). 

1800 yO 68-81 [Dimensiousof variousteJescopesusedbyHEUSCllEL, and their calcu- 
lated si)ace-penetrating powers are given, toget her with a largo num- 
ber of examples quoted from his note-books illustrative of the rela- 
tions of magnifying and space-peuetratiug powers.] 

82 Comparison of the space-penetrating power of 20-foot telescope calcu- 

lated according to tho principles developed in this paper with that 
deduced from observation, as given in Phil. Trans., vol. 75, p. 247, 
248. A substantial agreement leads to the conclusion that no single 
star above 489.551, or at most ()12 times as far as Sirins, can any 
longer be seen in this telescope. 

83 The space-penetrating ]>ower of the large re tlec tor was 192; admit- 

ting that stars of the 7th magnitude are visible to tho unassisted eye, 
this telescope would show stars of the l,342d magnitude. There- 
fore, a cluster of 5,000 stars might be seen by the 40-foot reflector at 
a distance at least 300,000 times that of the nearest fixed star. 
84-85 The calculated time necessary to sweep t he whole heavens with tho 40- 
Ibot telescope, assuming 100 hours of observing time in the year as 
the most probaljle deduction from experience, is 812 years. 
•[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, Jnue 20, 1799. 

1800 90 255 Fiircsiigatioii of tlic Powers of ilie pri.sm<i(ie Colours to heal and illuminate Ob- 
jects; with remarks that prove the difcreHtPcfrangihilitii of radiant Heat, 
lb tvliich is added an Inquiri/ into the Method of vicwinfj the Sun advan- 
tageoiishj tvitli Telescopes of lartjc Apertures and high magnifyinei Powers. 
By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read March 27, 1800. 

255 " It is sometimes of great use in natural philosophy to doubt of things 
that are commonly taken Ibv granted; especially as the means of 
resolving any doubt, when once it is entertained, are often within 
our reach. 

2.5r) "In a variety of experiments I have occasionally made relating to tho 
method of viewing the sun, with large telescopes, to the best advan- 
tage, I used various combinations of dill'erently coloured darkening 
glasses. What appeared remarkable was that when I used some of 
them I felt a sensation of heat, though I had but little light ; while 
others gave me much light, with scarcer any sensation of heat. Now, 
as in these different combinat ions the sun's image was also differently 
coloured, it occurred to me that the prismatic rays might have the 
power of heating bodies very unequally distributed among them ; and 
as I judged it right in this respect to entertain a doubt, it appeared 
equally proper to admit the same with regard to light. If certain 
colours should be more apt to occasion heat, others might, on the 
contrary, be more fit for vision, by possessing a superior illuminat- 
ing power. At all events, it would be proper to recur to experi- 
ments for a decision." 

256-2G0 Eight experiments to test heating power of red, green, and violet 
regions of the prismatic spectrum. 

201 As aresult, we have the proportion of the rising of the thermometer iu 
red to that in green as more than 2i to 1 ; iu red to violet about 3^ to 1. 



568 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.; f>Yj\or.sis of the WpaTixcs of— Contiunod. 

A.D. Vol. P. 

1800 90 2G2 Experime»ft< on ilte iUiiminaling Poiver of coloured Bays. 

26"2-270 Ten experiments on the visibility of objects illnraiuated by dif- 
ferently colonred light. 
268 "The maximum of illumination lies in the brightest yellow or palest 
green." 

270 "May not the chemical properties of the prismatic colours be as dif- 

ferent as those which relate to light and lieat ? Adequate methods 

271 for an investigation of them may easily be found ; and we cannot 
too minutely enter into an analysis of light, which is the most subtle 
of all the active principles that are concerned in the mechanism of 
the operations of nature." 

Madiant neat is of different Refraiigihilify. 

" I must now remark that my foregoing experiments ascertain beyond 
a doubt that radiant lieat, as well as light, whether they be the 
same or dilfereut agents, is not only refrangible, but is also subject 

272 to the laws of dispersion arising from its ditferent refraugibility ; 
and, as this subject is new, I may be permitted to dwell a few mo- 
ments upon it. The prism refracts radiant heat, so as to separate 
that which is less efficacious from that Avhich is more so. The 
whole quantity of radiant heat contained in a sunbeam, if this dif- 
ferent refrangibility did not exist, must inevitably fall uniformly 
on a space equal to the area of the prism ; and if radiant heat were 
not refrangible at all, it would fall upon an equal space in the place 
where the shadow of the prism, when covered, may be seen. But, 
neither of these events taking place, it is evident tHat radiant heat 
is subject to the laws of refraction, and also to those of the different 
refraugibility of light. INIay not this lead us to surmise that radiant 
heat consists of particles of light of a certain range of momenta, 
and which range may extend a little farther on each side of refrangi- 
bility than that of light? We have shewn that in a gradual ex- 
posure of the thermometer to the rays of the prismatic spectrum, 
beginning from the violet, we come to the maximum of light long 
before we come to that of heat, which lies at the other extreme. By 
several experiments, which time will not allow me now to report, 
it appears that the maximum of illumination has little more than 
half the heat of the full red rays; and, from other experiments, I 
likewise concluded that the full red falls still short of the maxi- 
mum of heat, wliich perhaps lies even a little beyond visible re- 
fraction. In this case, radiant heat will at least partly, if not 
chietiy, consist, if I may be permitted the expression, of invisible 
light; that is to say, of rays coming from the' sun, that have such 
a momentum as to be unfit for vision. And, admitting, as is highly 
lirobable, that the organs of sight are only adapted to receive im- 

273 pressions from particles of a certain momentum, it explains why 
the maximum of illumination should be in the middle of the re- 
frangible rays, as those which have greater or less momenta are 
likely to become equally unfit for impressions of sight. Whereas, 
in radiant heat, there may be no such limitation to the momentum 
of its particles. From the powerful effects of a burning lens, how- 
ever, we gather the information that the momentum of terrestrial 
radiant heat is not likely to exceed that of the sun, and that, con- 
sequently, the refraugibility of calorific rays cannot extend much 
beyond that of coJouriJic light. Hence, we may also infer that the 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIEKSCHEL's WRITINGS. 569 

Herschel, W.: Syxopsis ov tui: \\'i;ni.\(;s OF— Colli i lined. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

iiivisilil(']ic;if()fic(l-li()t iron, or;i,iii;,lly cooled till it ceases 1o. shine 
has the moment nm oflhci invisilile rays wliich, in the solar spectrum 
viewed by dayli<;lit, go to the confines of the red; and this will afford 
an easy solution of Ihe nlleciion of Jnvisil>le heat by concave mir- 
rors." 
1800 90 27:5 AppVifaiion of ihe, llvsvU of the forp<joinfi ohsenmlionx to the Method of 
viewing the Sun advantdf/eoitsly with Telescopes of larrjc Apertures and 
high magnifjjing Powers. 

274 Relation of experience which led to investigation. 

275-27G Experiments on the absorption of various media. 

277 Telescopic Experiments. 

277-282 Description of twenty-seven exi)eriments todetermine the best form 
of sun-glass for telescopes. 

283 Certain precautions to be oljserved in using telescopes on the sun. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, March 8, 1800. 

1800 90 284 Experiments on the Eefrangihility of the invisible Rays of the Sun. By 
William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read April 24, 1800. 

284 Description of method. Three sensitive thermometers were placed 

upon a small stand upon which a spectrum of the sunlight was 
caused to fall. 

285 Report of first experiment. A thermometer A inch beyond limit of 

visible red rose 0^ degrees in 10 minutes. 

286 Report of second experiment. As a result it was "evident that there 

was a refraction of rays coming from the Hun, which, thougli not 
fit for vision, were yet highly invested with a power of occasioning 
heat." 

287-288 Experiments at the violet end of the spectrum. 

"From these last experiments I was now sufTiciently persuaded that 
no rays which might fall beyond the violet could have any percepti- 
ble power, either of illuminating or of heating ; and that both these 
powers continued together throughout the prismatic spectrum, and 
ended where the faintest violet vanishes:" 

289-290 Experiments to deteimine the situation of the maximum of the 
heating power. 

291 "The 5th and Gth experiments show, that tli(> power of heating is ex- 
tended to the utmost limits of the visible violet rays, but not beyond 
them, and that it is gradually impaired as the rays grow more refran- 
gible. 
"The four last experiments prove, that the maximum of the heat- 
ing power is vested among the invisible rays; and is probably not 
less than half an inch beyond the last visible ones, when projected 
in the manner before mentioned. The same experiments also show, 
that the sun's invisible rays, in their less refrangilile state, and con- 
siderably beyond the maximum, still exert a heating power fully 
equal to that of red-coloured light ; and that, consequently, if we may 
infer the quantity of the efficient from the etiect produced, the invis- 
ible rays of the sun probably far exceed the visible ones in number. 
"To conclude, if we call light, those rays which illuminate objects, and 
radiant heat, those which heat bodies, it may be inquired whether 
light be essentially dill'erent from radiant heat ? In answer to wliich 
I would suggest, that we are not allowed, by the rules of philoso- 
phizing, to admit two different causes to explain certain effects, if 



570 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

HerscHel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of — Coutinued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

they may be accounted for by one. A beam of radiant heat, eman- 
ating from the sun, consists of rays that are differently refrangi- 
ble. The range of their extent, when dispersed by a prism, begins 
at violet-coloured light, where they are most refracted and have 
the least efficacy. We have traced these calorific rays throughout 
the whole extent of the prismatic spectrum ; and found their i^ower 
increasing, while their refrangibility was lessened, as far as to the 

1800 90 292 confines of rod-ccloured light. But their diminishing refrangibility 
and increasing i)ower did not stop here; for we have pursued them 
a considerable way beyond the prismatic spectrum, into an invisible 
state, still exerting their increasing energy, with a decrease of re- 
frangibility, uj) to the maximum of their power; and have also 
traced them to that state where, though sLill refracted, their energy, 
on account, we may suppose, of their now failing density, decreased 
pretty fast; after which the invisible Ihermomelrical spectrum, if I 
may so call it, soon vanished. 
"If this be a true account of solar heat, for the support of which I 
appeal to my experiments, it remains only for us to admit that such 
of the rays of the sun as have the refrangibility of those which 
are contained in the prismatic spectrum by the construction of the 
organs of sight are a-dmitted under the appearance of light and 
colours ; and that the rest, being stopped in the coats and humours 
of the eye, act upon them, as they are known to do upon all the 
other parts of our body, by occasioning a sensation of heat." 
Explanation of Plate XI, in which is given a view of the apparatus. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, Mai'ch 17, IsOO. 

1800 90 293 Experiments on the solar and on the terrestiial Bays that occasion Heat ; 
with a comparative view of the Laws to which Light and Heat, or rather 
the Rays tvhich, occasion them, are subject, in order to determine ivhether they 
are the same or different. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. 
Part I. Read May ]5, 1800. 
"The word heat, in its common acceptation, denotes a certain sen- 
sation well known to every person. The cause of this sensation, 
to avoid ambiguity, ought to have been distinguished by a name 
different from that which is used to point out its effect. Various 
authors, indeed, who have treated on the subject of heat, have 
occasionally added certain terms to distinguish their concejitions, 
such as latent, absolute, specific, sensible heat, while others have 
adopted the new exjiressions of caloric and the matter of heat. 
None of these descriptive anpellatious, however, would have com- 
pletely answered my pur^iose. I might, as in the preceding papers, 
have used the na.me radiant heat, which has been introduced by a 
celebrated author, and which certainly is not very different from 
the expressions I have now adopted ; but by calling the subject of 
my researches the rays that occasion heat I cannot be misunderstood 
as meaning that those rays themselves are heat, nor do I in any re- 
spect engage myself to show in what manner they produce heat. 
"From what has been said it follows that any objections that may 
be alleged from the supposed agency of heat in other circum- 
294 stances than in its state of radiance or heat-making rays cannot 
be admitted against my exi)eriments. For, notwithstanding I may 
be inclined to believe that all phenomena in which heat is con- 
cerned, such as the expansion of bodies, fluidity, congelation, fer- 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 571 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis oi-- thk Wkitixgs of— Continuod. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

moutatioa, iVirtion. etf.. us well iis linut in its various states of 
being, latent, spcciiic, absolute, or sensible, may bo explained on 
tlic princij)le of beat-making rays, and vibrations occasioned by 
tbem in the parts of bodies ; yet this is not intended at pi'esent to 
be any part of what I shall endeavor to establish. 
"I must also remark that in using the word rays I do uot mean to 
oppose, much less to countenance, the opinion of those philosophers 
who still believe that light itself comes to us from the sun, not by 
rays, but by the supposed vibrations of an elastic ether, every- 
where diffused throughout space. I only claim the same privilege 
for the rays that occasion heat which they are willing to allow to 
those that illuminate objects. For, in what manner soever this 
radiance may be effected, it will be fully proved hereafter that the 
evidence, either for rays or for vibrations which occasion heat, 
stands on the same foundation on which the radiance of the illumin- 
ating principle, light, is built." 
"We shall begin with the heat of luminous bodies in general, such 
as, in the first place, we have it directly from the sun ; and as, in 
the second, we may obtain it from terrestrial flames, such as torches, 
candles, lamps, blue-lights, etc. 
1800 90 295 " Our next division comprehends the heat of coloured radiants. This 
we obtain, in the first place, from the sun, by separating its rays in 
a prism ; and, in the second, by having recourse to culinary fires, 
openly exposed. 
"The third division relates to heat obtained from radiants, where 
neither light nor colour in the rays can be perceived. This, as I 
have shown, is to be had, in the first place, directly from the sun, by 
means of a prism applied to its rays; and, in the second, we may 
have it from fires inclosed in stoves, and from red-hot iron cooled 
till it can no longer be seen in the dark. 
" Besides the arrangement in the order of my experiments which would 
arise from this division, we have another subject to consider. For, 
since the chief design of this paper is to give a comparative view 
of the operations that may be performed on the rays that occasion 
heat, and of those which we already know to have been eftected on 
the rays that occasion light, it will be necessary to take a short re- 
view of the latter. 1 shall merely select such facts as not only are 
perfectly well known, but especially such as will answer the inten- 
tion of my comparative view, and arrange them in the following 
order : 1. Light, both solar and terrestrial, is a sensation occasioned 
by rays emanating from luminous bodies, which have a power of 
illuminating objects; and, according to circumstances, of making 
them appear of various colours. 2. These rays are subject to the 
laws of reflection. :5. They are also subject to the laws of refrac- 
29G tion. 4. They are of diflerent relVangibility. 5. They are liable 
to be stopped, in certain proi)ortious, when transmitted through 
diaphanous bodies. 0. They are liable to be scattered on rough 
surfaces. 7. They have hitherto been supposed to have a power of 
heating bodies; but this remains to be examined. 
'•The similar propositions relating to heat, which are intended to be 
proved in this paper, will stand as follows: L Heat, both solar and 
terrestrial, is a sensation occasioned by rays emanat ing from candent 
substances, which have a power of heating bodies. 2. These raya 



572 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Syxopsis of the Writings of — Continued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

are subject to tlie laws of reflection. 3. They are also subject to 
the laws of reflection. 4. They ai'e of difl'erent refraugibility. 5. 
They are liable to be stopped, in certain proportions, when trans- 
mitted through diaphanous bodies. G. They are liable to be scat- 
tered on rough surfaces. 7. They may be supposed, when in a cer- 
tain state of energy, to have a power of ilJumiuating objects; but 
this remains to be examined." 

1800 90 297 1st Experiment. Reflection of the Heat of the Sun. 

A thermometer was exposed at the eye end of a ten-feet Newtonian 
telescope. The rays, after three regular reflections, caused the 
thermometer to rise 58 degrees. The experiment .cannot ascertain 
whether these rays were those of light or not. 
2d Experiment. Reflection of the Heat of a Candle. 
The ball of a thermometer, placed in the secondary focus of a steel 
mirror, received 3|^ degrees of heat in five minutes. 

298 3d Experiment. Reflection of the Heat that accompanies the Solar Pris- 

matic colours. 
The same mirror was covered by a piece of pasteboard, which, through 
a proper opening, admitted all the visible colors to fall on its pol- 
ished surfaces, but excluded every other ray of heat that might be 
either on the violet or on the red side, beyond the spectrum. The 

299 thermometer in the focus rose 35 degrees above its stationary posi- 
tion in the direct red rays when the mirror was covered. " Thus 
the prismatic colours, if they are not themselves the heat-maMng 
rays, are at least accompanied by such as have a power of occasion- 
ing heat, and are liable to be regularly reflected." 

4th Experiment. Reflection of the Heat of a red-hot Poker. 

300 5th Exjieriment. Reflection of the Heat of a Coal Fireby aplain Mirror. 

301 6th Experiment. Reflection of Fire-heat by a Prism. 

302 7th Experiment. Reflection of Invisible Solar Heat. 

On a board about 4 feet 6 inches long was placed at one end a small 
plain mirror, and at the other two sensitive thermometers. Upon 
this board was projected a prismatic spectrum, and just beyond the 
limit of the red rays the mirror was stationed so as to reflect invis- 
ible rays to the ball of one of the thermometers. In ten minutes 

303 this thermometer stood four degrees above the other. 

304 8th Experiment. Reflection and Condensation of the Invisible Solar Raya- 
At the focus of a concave mirror was placed the ball of a thermome. 

ter. Upon the mirror was thrown a i^rismatic spectrum which cov- 
ered half the mirror. This half was covered by a pasteboard screen 
80 that only invisible rays were reflected to the baU of the ther- 
mometer. In one minute the thermometer rose 19 degrees. 

305 9th Experiment. Reflection of Invisible Culinary Heat. 

306-307 10th Experiment. Reflection of the Invisible Rays of Heat of a Polcer, 
cooled from being red-hot till it could no lonejcr be seen in a dark Place. 

308 11th Experiment. Refraction of Solar Heat. 

The rays from the sun, falling on the mirror of a Newtonian tele- 
scope 24 inches in diameter, were transmitted after reflection through 
the four lenses of an eye-piece and allowed to fall on the ball of a 
thermometer. 

12th Experiment. Refraction of the Heat of a Candle. 

309 The image of a candle flame was thrown upon the ball of a thermom- 

eter by a lens 1.1 in diameter. 



BIBLIOGKAI'HY OF HERSCIIEL's WHITINGS. 573 

Herschel, "W.: .Synoi-sis of iin; Wuhincs of— Contiimcd. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1800 90 :U0 i:Uh ExperiiiH'til. J,', fraction of the I hat that accompauirs the Coloured 
part of the I'ri.siiKitic ^Spectrum. 
A burning Urns i) iuchcH iu (liiuiictcr \v:is covered hy a piece of paste- 
board in which there was an opening of a sufficient size to admit 
all the colouriHl part of the prismatic spectrum. As the thermom- 
eter showcHl rise of temperature, the conclusions were, that if the 
colonred rays themselv(>s are not of a heat-making nature, they are 
at least accompanied with rays that have the power of heating 
311 bodies, and that these rays an; subject to certain laws of refraction 

which cannot dilier mntdi from those affecting light. 
311-312 14th Experiment. Refraction of the heat of a Chimneii Fire. The 

same burning glass before the clear fire of a largt; grate. 
313-314 l.'jth Experiment. Ihfraciion of the Heat of a Bed-hot Iron. This 

was by a lens of 1.1 inches diameter. 
315-316 16th Experiment. Hefraction of lire-heat hij an rnsfrnment resem- 
hVuHj a Telescope. 

317 17th Experiment. Hefraction of the InrisihJe rays of Solar Heat. The 

burning kus of 9 inches diameter was half covered by a screen of 
pasteboard, upon which the prismatic spectrum was thrown, keep- 
ing the last visible red colour one-tenth of an iiieh from the edge of 
the pasteboard. The thermometer, which had its ball at the focus 
for red rays, showed great increase of temperature; but at the same 
time exhibited a slight red colouration. This occasioned a surmise 
that possibly the invisible rays of the sun might become visible, if 
they were properly condensed. 

318 18th Experiment. Trial to render the Inrisihle Bays of the Sun f'isible 

hy Condensation. 
The previous exjieriment was modified so that the last visible red 
colour was two tenths of an inch from the margin of the paste- 
board. Here a marked increase of temperature was evinced with- 
out a vestige of light. 

319 19th Experiment. Befraction of Inrisible Culinary Heat. 

A heated cylinder of iron was placed on one side of a lens of 1.1 inches 
diameter, and the ball of a thermometer in the secondary focus on 
the other side of the lens. A small pasteboard screen was alternately 
removed from before the thermometer and replaced, the thermometer 
exhibiting corresponding rise and fall of temperature, from a bright 
red. heat of the cylinder down to its weakest state of black heat. 

320-321 20^h Experiment. Confirmation of the Wth. 

322 "As we have now traced the rays which occasion heat, both solar and 
terrestrial, through all the varieties that were mentioned in the be- 
ginning of this paper, and have shown that in every state they are 
subject to the laws of reflection and refraction, it will be easy to per- 
ceive that I have made good a proof of the first three of my prop- 
ositions. For the same experinumts which have convinced us that, 
according to our second and third articles, heat is both rellexible 
and refrangible, establish also its radiant miture, and thus e(iually 
prove the first of them." 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, April 2!>, 1800. 

323-326 Explanation of the Figures. Plates XII, XII, XIV, XV, and XVI. 

1800 90 437 Experiments on the Solar and on the Terrestrial Bays that occasion Heat; 

icith a comparative View of the Laws to ivhich Light and Heat, or rather 

the Bays ivhich occasion them, are subject, in order to determine whether 



574 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W,: Synopsis of the Writings of — Continued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

they are the same or differen t. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. 
Part II. Read Nov. (i, 1800. 
"The next three articles of this paper ^\ill require, that while we 
shew the similarity between light and heat, we should at the same 
time point out some striking and substantial differences, which will 

1800 90 438 occur in onr experiments on the rays which occasion them, and on 
which hereafter we may proceed to argue, when the question re- 
served for the conclusion of this paper, whether light and heat be 
occasioned by the same or diiferent rays, comes to be discussed." 
Art. IV. Different EefrarifjibUity of the Bai/s of Heat. 

439 Construction of a curve, Irom experiments before described, the ab- 

scissas of which represent the arrangement of colours in the pris- 
matic spectrum, and the ordinates the corresponding luminous in- 
tensity. 

440 Construction of a curve which, in a similar manner, represents the 

distribution of heat in a prismatic spectrum. 
"A mere inspection of the two figures, which have been drawn as 
lying on each other, will enable us now to see how very differently 

441 the prism disperses the heat-making rays, and those which occasion 
illumination. * » * These rays neither agree in their mean 
refrangibility nor in the situation of their maxima." 

441-442 21st Experiment. The sines of Befr action of the heat-maJcing Bays are 
in a Constant Ratio to the sines of Incidence. Ten different refracting 
angles of various media were used. 

443 22nd Experiment. Correction of the Different RefrangiMUty of Heat hy 

contrary Refraction in Different Mediums. An achromatic combina- 
tion of two crown jirisms and one flint deflected no heat outside the 
visible spectrum. 

444 23rd Experiment. In Burning-glasses the Focus of the Rays of Heat is 

Different from the Focus of the Rays of Light. 

445 Art. V. Transmission of Heat-making Rays. 
446-448 Description of apparatus for this investigation. 
447 [Foot-note.] Theory of the sensibility of thermometers, 

449 Transmission of Solar Heat through Colourless Substances. 

24th Experiment. The transmission of rays by a i)iece of bluish-white 
glass measured. 

450 Reference to Table 7 at the end of the paper, which gives the propor- 

tion of light transmitted by various substances, solid and liquid, 
white and coloured. 

451 25th Experiment. Transmission through a piece of flint glass J inch 

thick. 

452-453 Experiments 26 to 30. Transmission through crown glass, coach 
glass, Iceland crystal, and two varieties of talc. 

453 Transmission of Solar Heat through Glasses of the prismatic colours. 

453-456 Experiments 31 to 43. 

456 Transmission of Solar Heat through Liquids. 

457-458 Experiments 44 to 49. Transmission through well-water, sea- 
water, spirits of wine, gin, and brandy. 

458 Transmission of Solar Heat through Scattering Substances. 

458-462 Experiments 50 to 62. Transmission through various pieces of 
ground glass, an olive-coloured glass, calcined talc, white paper, 
linen, white persiau, and black muslin. 

462 Transmission of Terrestrial Flame-heat through various Substances. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCITEL's WRITINGS. 575 

Herschel W.: Synopsis of tiik Wkitixc.s of — Contiuuetl. 

A. D. Tol. F. 

1800 90 4G2-463 Dest-i-iption ofiipparatus used. 

464-470 Experiments G3 to 93. Transniission of heat from a catullc flamo 

tLrough the various substances used beiore. 
470 Transmission of the Solar Ileat which is of an Equal BcfrangiUlity with 

Bed Prismatic Bays. 
470-471 Description of apparatus used. 
471-47G Experiments 94 to ll(i. Transmission of red sohir rays through the 

substances used before. 
476 Transmission of Fire-IJea( through rarious Suhstances. 
476-477 Description of apparatus. 
477-485 Experiments 117 to 147. Transmission of heat from a grate fire 

through the same phites before used. 
485 Transmission of the Invisihle Bays of Solar Heat. 
485-490 Experiments 148 to 169. 
490 Transmission of Invisible Terrestrial Heat. 
490-492 Method and apparatus employed. 
492-497 Experiments 170 to 194. Transmission of heat from a stove by the 

plates before used. 
497 Art. VI. Scattering of Solar Heat. 
497-498 Description of apparatus. 
499-506 Experiments 195 to 219. Determinations of the amount of heat 

scattered by various kinds of paper, textile fabrics, metals, &c. 
506 Art. VII. Whether Light and Heat be occasioned by the same or by Differ- 
ent Bays. 
506 " Before we enter into a discussion of this question it appears to me 
that we are authorized, by the experiments which have been de- 
livered in this paper, to make certain conclusions that will entirely 
alter the form of our enquiry. Thus, from the 18th experiment it 
appears that 21 degrees of solar heat were given in one minute to 
a thermometer bv rays which had no power of illuminating objects 
and which could not be rendered visible, notwithstanding they 
were brought together in the focus of a burning lens. The same 
has also been proved of terrestial heat in the 9th experiment, where 
in one minute 39° of it were given to a thermometer by rays totally 
invisible, even when condensed by a concave mirror. Henra it is 
established, bv incontrovertible facts, that there are rays of heat, 
■ both solar and terrestrial, not endowed with a power of rendering 

objects visible. . 

''It has also been proved, by the whole tenour of our prismatic ex- 
periments, that this invisible heat is continued, from the beginning 
of the least refrangible rays towards the most refrangible ones in a 
series of uninterrupted gradation, from a gentle beginning to a 
certain maximum, and that it afterwards declines as uniformly to 
a vanishing state. These phenomena have been ascertained by an 
instrument which, figuratively speaking, we may call blind, and 
which, therefore, could give us no information about light ; yet 
bv its faithful report, the thermometer, which is the instrument 
alluded to, can leave no doubt about the existence of the difterent 
degrees of heat in the prismatic spectrum. 
''This consideration, as has been observed, must alier he torm of 
our proposed inquiry, for the question being thus '-^^ eas pa^^F 
decided, since it is ascertained that we have rays «f '--* -"^^f 
.ive no light, it can only become a subject of inquirj ^shether 



576 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

HerscheL W.: Synopsis of thk Writixgs of — Coutinued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

some of these heat-mukiiig rays may not liave a power of render- 
iug objects visible, superadded to their now already established 
power of heatiug bodies." 

1800 90 508 " It has been shown that the effect of heat aud of illumination may 
be represented by the two united spectra which we have given." 
"Now when these are compared it appears that those who would 
have the rays of heat also to do the office of light must be obliged 
to maintain the following arbitrary aud revolting positions, namely: 
that a set of rays conveying heat should all at once, in a certain 
part of the spectrum, begin to give a small degree of light ; that 
this newly acquired power of illumination should increase while 
the power of heating is on the decline ; that when the illuminating 
principle is come to a maximum it should in its turn also decline 
very rapidly aud vanish at the same time with the power of heating. 
How can effects that are so opposite be ascribed to the same cause ? " 

509 Relation of the refrangibility of the maximum heat-making rays 

and that of the rays of maximum lumiuousity. 
Table I. — Containing the results of experiments 24 to 30. 

510 Table II. — Containing the results of experiments 31 to 43, followed 

by a discussion of the same. 

511 Table III. — Results of experiments on liquids. 

511 Table IV. Containing the stoppages occasioned by scattering sub- 
stances. 

512-519 Argument founded upon the data contained iu these four tables. 
The general course of this argument is that, assuming the heat- 
making rays and rays of light to be of the same nature, a ratio of 
the efficacy of the invisible rays to that of the luminous rays de- 
rived from one set of experiments is incompatible with the ratio 
derived from any other set. Under the assumistion that the heat- 
making rays are essentially different from light rays, this incom- 
patibility does not appear. 

520 Table V. Stoppage of Prismatic Heat of the RefrangihUUy of the Red 
Bays, and of the Invisible Rays. 
[The measurements on dark-red glass here quoted is Hersciiel's de- 
cisive experiment, j)roving that heat-making rays are not the same 
by nature as the light rays. The experiment involves a photome- 
tric determination not described, the result of which is, however, 
quoted.] 

521-523 Argument founded upon data in above table. 

524 Table VI. Containing the results of the experiments on the trans- 
mission of terrestrial heat. 

525-527 Showing the impossibility of explaining these results by any as- 
sumption as to the ratio of the efficacy of visible and invisible rays. 

528 Taile of the Transmission of Terrestrial Scattered Light through various 
Substances; tvith a short Account of the Method by u-hich the Results 
contained in this Table have been obtained. 

528-531 Description of the method and apparatus used, both being founded 
upon the jirinciples of Bouguer. The sources of scattered light 
were vanes of white paper illuminated by a lamp. 

532-533 Table VII. This table contains the transmitting power for light 
of nearly all the substances used in the experiments of this paper. 

533 Table of the Proportional Terrestrial Light Scattered by various Sub- 
stances. 



BIBLIOGKAPTIY OF HERSCHEL'iS WRITINGS. 577 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of tiu: Wkitixgs of— Coutinnetl. 
A. D. Vol. r. 

1800 90 533-534 Method of dc^teimiuation. 

534-535 Table VIII. Containing the relative scattering power of thirty- 

tliree bodies. 
535-538 Explanation of the ]'lates. 

1801 91 '.205 Observationii tendhuj to investigate tl\e Nature of the Sun in order to find 

the Causes or Symptoms of its variable Emission of Light and Jleat; 
with Eemarks on the Use that may possibly be drawn from Solar Obser- 
vations. By William IIeksciiel, LL. D., F. R S. Read April 16, 
1801. 

265-266 Reference to IIersciiel's view, given on a former occasion, that 
the sun is a maguiticent habitable globe ; declaration that these more 
recent observations support that view ; and a statement as to the 
impoi-tance of solar observations in their l)earing upon the climate, 
together with an opinion that such observations will enable us to 
predict the character of a season. 

267-268 Definitions of the terms, openings, shallows, ridges, nodules, corru- 
gations, indentations, and 2)ores. 

269 Explanation of the form of the paper and the reasons for it. 

270 Of openings. Openings arc Placi's where the luminous Clouds of the Sun 

are removed. 
[Foot-note.] For a geometrical proof of the depression of openings 
a reference to a paper by Alexander Wilson, rhil. Trans., vol. 
64. 

271 Large Openings have generally Shallows about them. Many Openings are 

without Shallows. Small Openings are generally without Shallows. 
Openings have generally Ridges and Nodules about them. 

272 Openings have a Tendency to run into each other. New Openings break out 

near other Openings. Probable Cause of Openings. 

273 Direction and Operation of the disturbing Cause. 

274 Maxima of Openings. 

275 TAe7-e is some Difference in the colour of Openings. Openings divide tvheii 

they are decaying. 

276 Decaying Openings sometimes increase again. When Openings are divided 

they grow less and vanish. Decayed Openings sometimes become large 
Indentations. 

277 Decaying Openings turn sometimes into Pores. When Openings are van- 

ished, they leave Disturbance behind. 

278 Apparent View into the Openings, under luminous Ilidgcs and Shallows. 
Depth of the Openings indicuted by their Darkness. 

279 Distance between the Shallows and solar Surface, indicated by the free 

Motion of low Clouds. 

280 Of Shallows. Shallows are depressed below the general Surface of the 

Sun; and are Places ivhere the luminous solar Clouds of the upper Re- 
gions are removed. The Thickness of the Shallows is visible. 

231 Sometimes there are Shalloivs without Openings in them. Incipient Shallows 
come from the Openings, or branch out from Shallows already formed, 
and go forwards. ProbaUe Cause of Shallows. 

283 Shalloivs have no Corrugations, but are tufted. Decay of Shalloics. 

283 Of Ridges. Pidgon are Elevations above the general Surface of the lu- 

minous Clouds of the Sun. 

284 Length of a Pddgc. Pddges generally accompany Openings. Pddgea are 

also often in Plates tvhere there are no Openings. 
S. Mis. 31 37 



578 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Coutinued. 

A. D. Yol. p. 

1801 91 285 lUdijes disperse very soon. Different Causes of Bidges hinted at. 

286 Of Nodules. Nodules are small, hut highly elevated, luminous Places. 

Nodules may be Midges fore-shwtetied. 

287 Of Corrugations. Corrugatimis consist of Elevations and Depressions. 

Corrugations extend all over the Surface of the Sun. 

288 Dispersed Bidges or Nodules make Corrugations. Corrugations change 

their Shape and Situation; they increase, diminish, divide, and vanish 
quickly. 

289 Of Indentations. The dark places of Corrugations are Indentations. 

290 Indentations are without Openings. In some places the Indentations con- 

tab} small Openings. The Elevations and Indeniations of Corrugations 
are of different Figures. Indentations change to Openings. 

291 Indentations are of the same Nature as Shallows. Indentations are low 

Places, ivhich often contain very small Openings. Indentations are of 
different Sizes. Indentations are extended all over the Sun. 

292 With low magnifying Powers, Indentations tvill appear like Points. 

292 Of Pores. The low places of Indentations are Pores. Pores increase 

sometimes, and become Ojienings. Pores vanish quickly. 

293 Of the Regions of solar clouds. 
Changes in the Solar Clouds happen continually. 

294 There are two different Begions of Solar Clouds. 

The inferior clouds are opaque, and probably not unlike those of our 
Planet. 

295 Quantity of light reflected from the inferior Planetary Clouds. 

297 Indentations are planetary Clouds, reflecting light through the open Parts 

of the Corrugations. The opaque inferior Clouds probably suffer but 
little of the light of the self-luminous superior Clouds to come to the Body 
of the Sun. Motion of the inferior Clouds. 

298 Motion of the superior Clouds. 

299 Eminent Use of the planetary Clouds. 

300 Of the SOLAR atmosphere. The Sun has a planetary Atmosphere. The 

Stin's planetary Atmosphere extends to a great Height. The planetary 
Atmosphere of the Sun is of great Density. 

301 The Solar Atmosphere, like ours, is subject to Agitations, such as tvith us 

are occasioned by Winds. There is some clear Atmospheiic Space, be- 
tween the solid Body of the Sun and the lowest Begion of the Clouds. 

302 The Sun's planetary Atmospjhei-e is transparent. 

303 Theoretical explanation of the solar phenomena. 
Generation of Pores. 

304 Formation of Corrugations. Cause of Indentations. 

305 Cause of the mottled Appearance of the Sun. Formation of small Open- 

ings, Bidges, and Nodules. Production of large Openings and Shal- 
lows. 

306 Signs of scarcity of luminous matter in the sun. 

Visible Deficiency of empyreal Clouds. A perfect Calm in the upper Be- 
gions of solar Clouds. Want of Openings, Bidges, and Nodules. 

307 Many Indentations without, and others tvith, changeable Pores. 

308 Signs of abundance of luminous matter in the sun. 

Visible Increase of empyreal Clouds. Many Openings, Bidges, and No- 
dules. 
310 Coarse and luminous Corrugations. 

[Each of the above headings is followed by quotations from Her- 
schel's Journals in confirmation]. 



BIRLIOGRAPIIY OF HERSCIIHL's WRITINGS. 579 

Herschel, W.: Syxopsis of rui: \Vkitix<;s of— Contiuned. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1801 91 :{1U-:U8 A f-cucial discussion ol' tlu; louclnslons to be deduced from the 
observations quoted in this paper. [To Heusciiei, it seemed that 
the absence of Openings, Ridges, and Nodules, indicated a scarcity 
of luminous uuitter in the sun, and, therefore, that the seasons 
duriu;; which such couditions of the sun were recorded ouglit to bo 
of a lower temi>erature. He finds support for this view In tho 
higher lu-ice of wlitnit during the live recorded i)criods of scarcity 
of suu spots.] 
318 Explanation of the 1st, xid, llth. and I'ith ligures of Plates XVIII 
and XIX. 

1801 91 :?54 Additional Observations tending to investigate the S!jmptom>i of the rariahlc 

Emission of the Lijht and Heat of the Sun; with Trials to set aside dark- 
ening Glasses, hg transmitting the Solar Bays through Liquids: and a 
few RemarJcs to remove Objections that might be made against some of the 
Arguments contained in the former Paper. By Willi.vm llKUscriEr., 
LL. D., F. R. S. Read May 11, 1801. 

354-355 Considerations as to the relations of the condition of the solar sur- 
face and the weather. 

355 "Before I proceed, I must hint to those who may be willing to attend 
to this subject, that I have a strong suspicion that one half of our 
sun is less favorable to a copious emission of rays than the other; 
and that its variable lustre may possibly appear to other sohir sys- 
tems, as irregular periodical stars are seeu by us; but, -whether this 
arises from some ijermaneut construction of the solar surface, or is 

35G merely au accidental circumstauco, must bo left to future investi- 
gation : it should, however, bo carefully attended to." 

356-361 Observations of the sun. 

361 Descrii)tion of a skeleton eye-piece, into the vacancy of which !uay 

be i)laced a moveable trough, shut at the ends with plain glasses, 
80 that the sun's rays may be made to pass through any liciuid, suck 
as spirits of wii4e, Port wine, mixture of ink and water, etc , placed 
in the trough. 

362 Explanation of the Figures. Plate XXVIII. 

1802 92 213 Observations on the two lately discoveredbodies. [Ceres and Pallas.] By 

William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read May 6, 1802. 

213 \_Ceres'\ is of very small size. [Foot-note.] Its real diameter is not 

as great as three-eighths of our moon. 

214 Magnitude of the new Stars. \_Ceres and Pallas.] 

Ajiril 1, 1802. I placed a lucid disc at a considerable distance from 
the eye and viewed with one eye tho magnitied star (seen with a 
7-foot reflector) and the lucid disc with the other. 

215 By this means it appears that the real diameter of ('errs is not above 

0".40. 
215 April 21. With a ten-foot reflector the same experiment gave 0". 38. 

217 April 2i. For Ceres the diameter was 0".22. For Pallas 0".17vand 

0".i:!. 

218 The real diameters arc, then, Ceres 161.0 miles, Pallas 147 miles. 

219 Of Satellites. [Observations on this subject.] 

220 There is certainly no satellite to Ceres that can be seen with the 20- 

foot reflector. 
220 Of the Color of the neiv Stars. The color of Ceres is riuldy but not very 
deep. Ceres is more ruddy than Pallas. Pallas is of a dusky whitish 
color. 



580 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis ov the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. r. 

1802 92 221 Of the Appearances of the new stars with regard to a Disk. 

Ceres has a visible disk. Pallas' disk I would rather call a nucleus. 
221 Of the appearances of the new stars, with regard to an atmosphere or coma. 

[Observations] probably no coma. 
223 On the nature of the new Stars. 

223 What are these new stars; are they planets or are they comets? 

224 Planets defined (by 7 particular proiierties). 

225 Our new stars cannot be called planets. 

226 Comets defined (by 5 particular properties).. 

223 The new stars are not comets. They should be called Asteroids from 
their resemblance to small stars. 

229 Asteroids defined. 

229 Statement of the reasons we have for expecting that additional aste- 
roids may j)robably be soon found out. 

229 I have already made five reviews of the zodiac without detecting^any 

of these asteroids ; their motion and not their appearance will be 
the future means of detecting them. 

230 We have reason to believe that a number of asteroids may remain con- 

cealed. 

230 Comets may become asteroids. 

231 Additional ohservafions relating to the appearances of the asteroids Ceres 

and Pallas. 
The coma of Ceres not much greater than that of stars of the same 
magnil ude. 

232 The fixed stars differ considerably in this respect among themselves. 
232 The coma of Pallas not much more than for equal fixed stars. 

1802 92 477 Catalogue of 500 ncio Nchulw, nebulous Stars, planetary nebula? and Clus- 
ters of Stars ; ivith Ilemarlcs on the construction of the Heavens. By 
William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read July 1, 1802. 
After a sufficient number of celestial objects is found, there is a neces- 
sity for a scientific classification. The former classification was 
only for the convenience of the observer. 

478 Enumeration of the parts that enter into the construction 

OF the heavens. 
I. Of Insulated Stars. 

479 Notion of an insulated star — our sun is one. 

480 The milky way consists of stars very differently scattered from those 

which are immediately about us. 
480 By analogy we may admit that every insulated star may be attended 
with planets, etc. I should hesitate to extend this analogy to every 
star in the heavens, and even think that probably we can only look 
for solar systems among insulated stars. 

480 II. Of Binary Sidereal Systems or Double Stars. 

481 Difference between a double and a binary star. 

482 Difference between solar and sidereal systems. 

482 No insulated stars of nearly an equal size and distance can appear 

doable to us. 

483 Proof of this. 

485 Casual situations will not account for the multiplied jrtienomena of 

double stars, and their existence is owing to a general law of na- 
ture — gravitation is that law. 

486 I shall soon communicate a series of observations on double stars, 

proviug that many of them have already changed their situation with 



BIBLIOGRAniY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 581 

Herschel. W.: synopsis ov tih; Wi;nixi;s or— Coutimicd. 
A. D. Vvl. r. 

rcyanl to each oihcr in a pnKjnusivc <oHrt<c, dcuoling a 2)erio(Jic(il revolu- 
tion round each other. 
Our sun does not beloiij;- to such a syf^tcni. 

III. 0/ more complicatiHi Sidereal Sijstems, or treble, quadruple, quintuple, 
and multiple titarn. 
1802 92 4H7 Theorem as to thi^ penuauent connection of revorviiijf stars, when tho 
forces acting on any one of them reduced to a direction as coming 
from the empty centre are in tlie diix'ct ratio of the distances from 
that centre. 
488-494 Hypothetical examples of such multiple stars. 
494 Such combinations as I have mentioned are not the inventions of fancy ; 
they have an actual existence ; and, were it necessary, I could point 
them out by thousands. 
49.') I do not imagine that I have pointed out the actual manner in wliit-h 

they are held together, but only the possibilities of such unions. 
49") IV. Of Clustering Stars and the Milky Way. 

Marks of clustering in the milky way. Example of (he stars between 
/i and C Cygni. 
49G "We may indeed partly ascribe the increase, both of brightness and 
of apparent compression, to a greater depth of the space which con- 
tains these stars; but this will equally tend to show their clustering 
condition, for since the increase of brightness is gradual, the space 
containing the clustering stars must tend to a spherical form if the 
gradual increase of brightness is to be explained by the situation of 
the stars." 
V. Of groups of Stars. Definition. 

497 VI. Of clusters of Stars. Definition. 

VII. Of JSfebulw. Perhaps they are all to be resolved into the tlireo 
last-mentioned species. 

498 Power of a telescope to penetrate not only space but time past. 

499 VIII. Of Stars with Burs or Stellar Xebulw. 
IX. Of Milky Nebulosity. 

Probably of two kinds. 1st, apparent, which is formed by distant 
["widely-extended"] clustering stars; and, 2d, real, and possibly 
at no very great distance from us. The nebula of Orion of this lat- 
ter kind. 

500 X. Of Nebulous Stars. 

501 XL Of Planetary Nebnlw. 

Perhaps they are allied to nebulous stars. 
XII. Of Planetary Nebula; with Centres. 
503 Catalogue. 

21G to No. 228 
7(59 to No. 907 
No. 748 to No. 978 
59 to No. 78 . 
45 to No. 52 
m to No. 42 
56 to No. 67 
79 to No. 88 
528 Plates XVI and XVII, 16 figures of hypothetical orbits of multiple 
stars. 

1803 93 214 Obserrations of the Transit of Mercury over the disk of the Sun; to which 
is added an inrestiyation of the causes which often prevent the proper 



Class I 


No. 


II 


No. 


III 


No. 


IV 


No. 


Y 


No. 


VI 


No. 


VII 


No. 


VIII 


No. 



582 IJIBLIOGRAPIIY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: .Synopsis of the Writings of — Coutiuued. 
A. D. Vol. r. 

action of Mirrors. By William Hp:rsciiel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read 

February 10, 1803. 
1803 93 214 The observations were made (1802, Nov. 9) with a (jJass mirror of 7 

feet focns and 6.3 inches aperture under favorable conditions, and 

215 also with a 10-feet reflector. Eye-pieces made of dark-green glass 
and others smoked on the side next the eye were used. 

216 No ring about the planet ; no distortion of the limbs of the sun or 

Mercury at egress. 

217 Mercury was perfectlj^ spherical in figure. 

217 Observations and exjjeriments relating to the causes tvMch often affect mir 
rors, so as to prevent their shoioing objects distinctly. 

217 The experience of many years will enable me to assign the principa 

causes of disappointments in the use of mirrors. 

218 The following observations have all been made with specula of un- 

doubted goodness, so that every cause which impeded their proper 
action was extrinsic. 

218 Moisture in the air. Damp air is no enemy to vision. 

219 Fogs. 

220 Frost. 

221 Soar-Frost; Dry- Air. 

222 Northern-Lights; Windy- Weather ; Fine in Appearance. 

223 Over a Building ; The Telescope lately brought out. 

224 Confined Place; Haziness and Clouds. 

225 Focal-length. 

226 In order to see well with telescopes it is required that the tempera- 

ture of the atmosphere and mirror should be uniform and the air 
fraught with moisture. 
All the preceding observations are accounted for by this i^rinciple. 
228 Experiments [on the effects of change of focal length of a speculum.] 
Heat applied back and front of a glass speculum lengthened the 
focus. 

230 With' a metal mirror the focns became first shorter and then length- 

ened. 

231 In observing the sun similar effects may arise. 

232 Perhaps these might be counteracted by an application of heat to 

the back of the mirror or by an interception of it in front. 

1803 93 339 Account of the changes that have happened during the last Twenty-Five 
Years in the Relative Situation of Double-Stars ; with an investigation of 
the Cause to which they are owing. By William Hrrschel, LL.D., 
F. R. S. Read June 9, 1803. 

339 In Phil. Trans., 1802, p. 477, I have defined insulated stars. The dis- 

covery of ICeres and Pallas'] has enlarged our knowledge of the 
system of insulated stars. 

340 I have already shown that two stars may revolve about their common 

centre of gravity; and that it is probable there would be many 
such binary systems among all the stars of the heavens. But 
neither of these reasons is a proof of the actual existence of such 
systems. I will here give an account of observations which will go 
to prove that many of them are not merely dotible in appearance, 
but are real binary combinations, intimately held together by the 
bond of mutual attraction. 

341 In Plate VII, Fig. 1, call the place of the sun, 0, of the larger star 

of a double star, a, of the smaller, x- 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCnEL's WRITINGS. 083 

Herscliel, W.: Syxopsis of the Wiutixos of— Conlimu'd. 

A. B. Tol. r. 

1803 93 341 There are three motions to he cousidercd of the hodies O, a, x- :i i"0- 
tiou of one, of two, or of all three. 

341 Single Motions. If a and are at rest, a motion of x lu^iy ^^c assumed 

so as ])erfectly to exidain any change of distance or of angle of 
position of the two stars. 

342 The etJect of a mot ion of a or of explained. 

343 Double motions. 

344 Motions of the three hodies. 

345 [Observations] case of a Geniino>-i/>n. 

The distance has remained about constant for 23^ years. 

345 In a rellector the apparent diameter of a star depends upon: the 

aperture with respect to the focal length; the distinctness of the 
mirror; the magnifying power; the state of the atmosphere. By 
contracting the aperture "wo can increase the apparent diameter; 
want of distinctness does the same thing; an increase of magnify- 
ing power increases the distance apart of two stars, hut this in- 
crease is not proportional to the increase of the power, and sooner 
or later comes to a maximum; the state of the atmosphere is the 
most material condition, as we cannot alter it. 
34G The other three causes are at our disposal. I took ten different mir- 
rors of 7 feet focus, 6.3 inches aperture, magnifying power 460. 
With these, one after another, I viewed a Geminonm. With each 
one the distance of the components was the same. 

346 When double stars are first seen they appear nearer together than 

later. 

347 I have known it to take up two or three months before the eye was 

sufficiently acquainted with the object to judge with the requisite 
precision. 

347 The error of this method of estimating the distance of these two stars 

is not above 0".34. 

348 The angle of position of these stars was in 177U, 32- 47' north-preced- 

ing; it is now only 1Q° 53'. In 23* years it has diminished 2F ..4 ; 
this change has been regular and gradual. 

348 Accuracy of the angles of position investigated by the deviation of 

separate measures from the mean. 

349 This micrometer, then, will give the position of a double star true to 

about P from 2 measures; in the worst circumstances the error 

will not be 3^^. , ■ x i i 

850 The cause of this change must be examined. A revolving .star woul.l 
explain the alteration of the angle of position with no alteration of 
the distance. As we have no precedent for, this it will be right to 
examine whether the change cannot be accounted for by the proper 
motions of the stars, or of the sun. 

350 Single motions [examined]. 

^'S^ AH are inconsistent with my observations. 

S The proper motion of the sun must be admitted m such a direction 

and of such a velocity as will satisfy the mean direction and velocity 

of the general proper motions of the stars. 
356 Double Motion. This hypothesis is not maintainable 

give the preference [to the hypothesis of a revolution of the stais 
themselves]. 



A.D. 


Tol. P. 


1803 


93 3(52 




363 




365 



584 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS, 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wpaxixcs or — Continued. 

Table of measures of Castor and comparison of calculated and oLserved 

angles. 
An observation of Bradley's on Castor (1759) quoted. 
New table of calculated and observed angles, including Bradley's 
observations. The arc 45° 39' has been described in 43 years 142 
days. 
355 The regularity of tbe motions gives us reason to conclude that the 
orbits of these stars are circular and at right angles to the line of 
sight; if this be nearly true the time of a revolution will be about 
342 years and 2 months. 
366-372 y Leonis. [This case considered as before.] 
372 Table of observations : the jieriod is about 1,200 years. 
372 e Bootis. 
378 ? HercuVis. 

380 d Serpen tis. 

381 ;k Virginis. 

382-3 Plates VII and VIII— figures of orbits. 

1804 94 353 Continuation of an Account of the Changes that have happened in the 

relative situation of douhle Stars. By William Herschel, LL. D., 
F. R. S. Read Jmio 7, 1804. 

353 In my former paper {Phil. Trans., 1803, p. 339) I gave the changes in 
the situation of six double stars. 

3.53 I used the best observations I had of the position of Castor, but as 
the proper motions of 36 i^rincipal stars published in the Green- 
wich observations give the motion of this star different from what 
I used, it will be necessary to revieAv the arguments in the same 
order as in the i)recediug paper. 

358 [The former conclusions in regard to Castor are confirmed.] 

359 In the further list of 50 double stars here given, 28 have undergone 

only moderate changes, less than 10°. 
Thirteen have altered their situation above 10° but less than 20° ; 3 
stars have changed more than 20° ; the six remaining have changed 
between 30° and 130°. 
359-384 [The various pairs considered and observations given. ] 

360 I have no longer supposed the solar motion to be directed to X Her- 

citlis^ but to a point at no very great distance from this star. 

1805 95 31 Experiments for ascertaining how far Telescopes ivill enahle «s to deter- 

mine very small Angles, and to distinguish the real from the spurious 
Diameters of celestial and terrestial Objects; with an A2)j)licatio7i of the 
Eesult of these Experiments to a Series of Observations on the Nature 
and Magnitude of Mr. Hardixg's latel}/ discovired Star. [Jmko.] By 
William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read December 6, 1804. 

31 "We know that a very thin line may be perceived and that objects 

may be seen when they subtend a very small angle ; but the case I 
wanted to determine relates to a visible disk, a round, well-defined 
appearance, which we may without hesitation affirm to be circular, 
if not spherical." 
[In 1774 Herschel found that a square area could not be distinguished 
from an equal circular one till the diameter of the latter came to 
subtend an angle of 2' 17".] 

32 1st Experiment, with the Heads of Pins. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCnEL's WRITINGS. ;j85 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of thk Wiutixgs or— Conliimcd. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

1805 95 33 These olijccts were observed at a distance of -2407. ^:> iiudn's from tbo 
mirror of a ten-feet rellecting t(;leseope. It was fuuiid that in tbo 
telescope a body subtending the niagTiilied angle of 2' ID" could 
easily bo recognized as round. 
2d Esi)crinicnt, with small Globules of Sealing-wax. 

34 It appeared that "with a substance not reflecting much light the ma^- 

uilied angle must be between 4 and 5 minutes before we can see it 
round. 

35 3d Experiment, ivith Globules of Silver. 

36-57 4th Experiment, with Globules of Pitch, Bees-xoax, and Brimstone. 
38-39 5th Experiment, ivith Objects at a greater Distance. 
40 6tli Experiment, xoith illuminated Globules. 

40 Spurious DiametePvS ok Celestial Objects. 
Obserrations and Experiments, with Bemarks. 

41 With stars, the spurious diameters are larger tliaii the real ones, which 

are too small to be seen. 
The spurious diameters of stars are of dill'erent sizes, and under the 

same circumstances their dimensions are of a permanent nature. 
The spurious diameters of the stars are differently coloured. 

42 Their spurious diameters are lessened by increasing the magnifying 

power, but in a much less ratio. 
Magnifying power acts less on tljc large diameters and more on the 
small ones. When the aperture of the telescope is lessened, it will 
occasion an increase of the spurious diameters; but this increase is 
not iiroportional to the diameters of the stars, acting more upon the 

43 small spurious diameters and less upon the large ones. Very small 
stars, however, lose their spurious diameters, and become nebu- 
lous. 

The spurious diameter of a star is reiluced by haziness of the atmos- 
phere. At a low altitude a star makes a spectrum, being coloured 
by the prismatic power of the atmosphere. 

44 Spurious diameters of terrestrial orjixts, with similar re- 

marks. 
7th Experiment )('(//( Silver Globules. 

45 8th Experiment. 

The luminous spots or spurious disks of th(> globules were of unequal 

diameters. 
9th Experiment. 10th Experiment. 

46 11th Experiment. 12th Experiment. 

47 13th Experiment. 14th Experiment. 
48-49 15th Experiment, ^vith Drops of Quiclsilrer. 

50 [These experiments, from the 7th to the 15tli, inclusive, prove that all 

the remarks made concerning the spurious disks of stars are also 
applicable to sufficiently small and bright terrestrial objects.] 
16th Experiment, with black and white Circles. 

51 17th Experiment, with different Illumination. 
18th Experiment. Measures of sjmrious Disks. 

With drops of quicksilver, the spurious disks were measured by means 
of distant disks of known diameters upon which they were projected. 
By covering the mirror with screens of ditferent apertures, and also 

52 by stopping out its center by circular screens of ditl'erent size, it 
was found that the sizes of the spurious disks were not determined 
by the quantity of light reflected from the mirror, but rather by the 



58C) BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCIIEL's ^YRITIXGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the WniTixcs of— Continued. 

A.D. \ol. p. 

1805 95 53 part-of the mirror used. Thus the inside rays of a mirror increase 
the diameter of these disks, whereas the outside rays alone have a 
greater effect in reducing it than they do when the inside rays are 
left to join with them. This affords a criterion as to whether a disk 
is real or spurious. 
19th Experiment. Trial of Estimations. 
20th Experiment. Use of the Criterion. 

54 21st Experiment. Measures of the comparative Amount of the spimous Di- 

ameters jjroduced hy the Inside and Outside Bmjs. 
22d Experiment. Trial of the Criterion on celestial Objects. 

55 22d Experiment. [Another trial. ] 

55-Gl Observations on the nature and magnitude of Mr. Harding's 
lately-discovered star. 

61 Results and application of the experiments and observations. 

62 There is a limit to the size of objects [^ second in Hersciiel's 10-foot 

telescope] above which a mere increase in magnifying power will 
betray the real disk. By the criterion of the outside and inside rays, 
an object of half this angular diameter may be shown to have real 
dimensions, but below this value the telescope cannot distinguish 
"between a real and spurious diameter. 
63-64 Remarks on the class of celestial bodies to which the new star be- 
longs, and a justification of the term asteroid as applied to them. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, December 1, 1804. 

1805 95 233 On the direction and velocity of the Motion of the Sun, and Solar System, 
By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read May 16, 1805. 
233 Dr. Maskelyne's Table of the proper motions of 36 stars proves the 
motions of the stars cf the first brightness, such as are probably in 
our immediate neighborhood. The changes in position of minute 
stars that I have ascertained prove that motions are equally carried 
on in the remotest parts of space. 

233 In 1783 I deduced from the proper motions of stars, with a high de- 

gree of probability, a motion of the sun and solar system towards 
X Herculis. 

234 The present paper Avill treat [only] of the direction of the solar 

motion. 

234 Reasons for admitting a solar motion. 

It may appear singular that I should again think it necessary to give 
reasons for this. The cause is that [in 1783 I proposed to] take 
away the various proper motions of stars by investing the sun with 
a contrary one. Now, however, [I find that] the solar motion will 
reveal so many concealed real motions that we shall have more of 
them than would be necessary were the sun at rest. Hence the ne- , 
cessity for admitting the solar motion ought to be well established. 

235 Theoretical considerations. 

235 A view of the motions of moons around planets, and these again 

round the sun, may suggest the motion of the latter round some 
unknown centre. The solar motion was suggested by Lambert; 
Dr. Wilson has shown its possibility from theoretical principles, 
and De la Lande its probability. The rotation of the sun indi- 
cates a motion of translation; the cause of both is unknown. 

236 The periodical stars should be examined with this idea. Conversely 

stars that have a motion in space may be surmised to have also a 
rotation on their axes. 



BILiLIOGRAI'IIY OF IIERSCHEL's WKl riXGS. r).S7 

Herscliel, "W".: Syxopsis ok tuk \Vrhix(;s of— Continued. 

JL. D. Vol. p. 

i805 '15 236 Si/mptoms of paralliulic Motions. 

Three sorts of motions cxplainoil by Fi<j. 1, Plate VII. 

237 The parallactie, the real, and the apparent motions. 

238 Since a motion of the sun will occasion parallactic motions of the 

stars, these again must indicate a solar motion. To a.scertain 
whether parallactic motions exist we must choose the brightest 
stars which are most afVeetcd by solar motion, they being probably 
the nearest to the snu. 

238 Wo distinguish parallactic from real motions by the direction of 

the motion. If a solar motion exists all parallactic motions will be 
opposite to it; real motions will be dispersed indiscriminately to 
all parts of space. 

239 The point towards which the sun moves is the apex of solar motion; 

the opposite point is the parallactic centre. 

240 Table I. Ten positions of the solar apex from hrst magnitude stars. 

241 Fifteen positions from fainter stars stated. 

242 Changes in 'he })osUlon of double Stars. Among the 'j'o stars which I 

have given, the changes of more than half appear to be [due to a 
solar motion]. 
242 Incongrnitij of proper Motions. 

242 Sidereal occultation of a small Star. 

As far as we can judge at present the vanishing of the small star near 
d Ci/gni is only a parallactic disappearance. A real motion would 
also explain it. 
244 Direction of the Solar Motion. 

243 When -we are in search of an apex for the .solar motion, it ought to be 

so fixed as to be eqnally favorable to every star. * * * Our aim 
should be to reduce the proper motions of the stars to their lowest 
quantities. 
249 Table II of the direction and quantity of the apparent motion of six 
stars, supposing the sun to move towards ?. Uerculis. 

251 Table III of the angles of the parallactic motion with the parallel; 

and Tal)le IV, juigles of the apparent with the parallactic motion. 

252 Table V. Quantities and sum of the least n^al Motions. 

253 Assuming the apex of solar motion to be in R. A. 270= 15', N. P. D. 

54° 45', Table VI is computed: it is similar to Tables III, IV, V. 

254 Assuming the apex R. A. 245° 52' 30", N. P. D. 40^ 22', Table VII 

[like Table VI] is calculated. 

255 Although the great proper motions of Arrtarns, Procyon, and Sirius 

are strong indications of tlieir being atfected by parallax, it is not pro- 
bable that their apparent changes are entirely due to solar motion. 
251) Observation shows that proper motions do exist : we should choose 
that apex which will take away more real motion than any other, 
or we should put the apex in R^ A. 245° 52' 30", N. P. D. 40= 22'. 

1805 95 272 Ohservations on the singular Figure of the planet Saturn. By William 
HERSCriEi., LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 20, 1805. 

272 [Brief account of the particularities of the system of Saturn.'] 

2T2 There is a singularity left which distinguishes the figure of Saturn 
from that of all the other placets. In 177G I perceived that the 

273 body of Saturn was not round. In 1781 I found it was flattened at 
the poles more than Jupiter. In 1789 I measured the polar and 
equatorial diameters, and prepossessed with the idea of its being 
spheroidical I [paid no attention to other diameters]. 



588 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCTIEL'S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Coutiimed. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1805 95 2-7:! Observatious on Saturn: [from 1805, April 12, to June 2] 1805, April 

12. The ring is brighter than the body, and whiter. 

274 April 18. The figure of Satu7-u is different from the spheroidical figure 

o{ Jupiter. Tlie 4 points of g>-eatest curvature are in latitude 4G^ 
38'. 

275 The shadow of the ring on the body is broader at the ends than in the 

middle. 
275 April 19. The figure of Sulurn is like a parallelogram with the four 
corners rounded off deeply. The latitude of the four points of 
greatest curvature is 45° 44'. 5. 
276-277 May 5-13. Saturn amlJupiler were viewed alternately [and the 
preceding remarks confirmed]. 

279 The real Saturn compared with the figure in Phil. Trans., 1790, p. 17. 

The two did not agree. I then modified the latter and made them 
agree. An exact copy is given in Plate IX. 

280 Dimensions of the parts given. 

1806 96 205 On the Quantity and Velocity of the Solar Motion. By William Her- 

schel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read February 27, 1806. 

205 The direction of the solar motion was ascertained in a former paper: 
the A^elocity is now in question. 

205 The proper motions, reduced to one direction, have been called quan- 
tities, to distinguish them from the velocities of the moving stars, 
required to produce those motions. The same distinction must be 
kept with respect to the velocity of the solar motion. 

205 At a given distance, when the quantity of the solarpiotion is known, 

its velocity is known, and every approximation towards a knowl- 
edge of the distance of a star of the first magnitude will be one 
toward a knowledge of the real solar velocity. It is otherwise with 
a star, for the angle of the direction of its motion with the visual 
ray is unknown. 

206 I shall use the former six stars in the present paper. 

206 Proportional distance of the Sfais. 

207 I jjropose the following arrangement: Table VIII, proportional Dis- 

tances of Stars ; Sirius, 1.00; Arcturus, 1.20; Capella, 1.25; Lyra, 1.30; 
Aldeharan and Procyon, 1.40. 

208 I have tried all the known and many new ways of measuring the com- 

parative light of the stars, and no one gives a satisfactory result. 
When we have more authentic data, the calculation may be re- 
peated. 

208 Effect of the increase and decrease of the Solar Motion and Conditions fo 

be observed in the Investigation of its Quantity. 

209 Table IX. In 6 columns : Stars ; Apparent motion ; Solar motion ; 

Parallactic motion ; Real motion ; Velocities. 

210 It is not the motions but the velocities which must be equalized. 

211 It is assumed that their real motions are at right angles to the visual 

ray. [The objection to this considered.] 

213 Calculations for drawing Figures that will represent the observed motions 

of the Stars. 
These are of two classes ; the first will remain unaltered whatsoever 
the solar motion ; the second must be adjusted to every change 
[of solar motion]. 

214 We must assume relative distances for i he rest of our stars. 



EIBLIOGKAniY OV HKUSCIIKI.'s WRITINGS. ;>''^0 

Herschel, W.: SvNorsis of tuk W.miNOs oF-C.nlinno.l. 

A.D. Vol. P. . , . *• 

1800 9G 215 Table X contains llu" result of calnihitioii .It the I'-'nnanent .luauti- 

ties. It has six columns: (1) gives the star's name; (-2) its pro- 
portional distaucc ; C.J) apparent motion ; (4) Direction vritb tho 
parallel; (5) Direction with the parallactic motion; (C) Velocity. 
[There are 3G stars. ] 

216 Plate IV, Fig. 1 and Fig. 3, exhibits columns 3, 1, and r. graphically. 

Fig. 2 and Fig. 4 give the velocities. 

217 liernlrks on the sidereal Motions as they are represented from Observation. 
Fi^. 1 (from observation) shows that there must bo some physical 

cause which gives a bias to tho directions in which the stars are 

moving. Discussion of Figs. 2, 3, 4. 
219 The Solar Motion and its direction assigned in the first part of this paper 

are confirmed by the rhenomena attending the observed motions of 3G stars. 
• 221 Trial of the method to obtain the Quantity of the Solar Motion by its Bank 

among the sidereal Velocities. 
22--> Calculations for investigating the Consequences arising from any proposed 

Ouantity of Solar Motion and for delineating them by proper Figures. 
2-->3 Table XI contains 5 columns: (1) name of star, including the sun ; 

(2) Parallactic Motion; (3) Real Motion; (4) Parallactic Angle; 

(5) Velocity. 
224 Fio-s. 5 and C illustrate Table XI. 

224 EemarU that lead to a necessary examination of the Cause of the sidnral 

225 A motimrof the stars may arise from mutual gravitation or froni an 

original projectile force. Both these causes act m the solar system. 

oor, The similar direction of the motion of a group of stars may be as- 
cribed to their similar projectile motions. r- , ■< e 

227 Consideraiions of the attractive Power reguircd for a sufficient T elo.ity of 
ihc sidereal Motions. , 

The mere attraction of neighboring stars «-t\ug upon eac c^^^^^^ 
cannot he the cause of proper motions, f^^^^^^^^^'^^l^^ IZ 
that cause would approach yearly by less than .OOOOOOOOo to 
eye at the distance of Sirius and supposing its r=^^-^Uax 1 • 

228 A centre of attraction must then he assumed, and original pro,, ctile 

229 motions must be supposed. 

ooo Tbfl centre of attraction may bo one mass or a group. 

IS SrttmX a union of groups; like two Cn.t.rs n' a„an .mcU 
are near the line of the 8olai> motion. 

o*?! The Milkv Way will furnish centres of attraction. 

Si IndeJendenTof the solar motion, the action of distant centres of 

''' 'IractnwiUhe required to explain the proper motions of^s^^^^^^^^ 
If the Sun he at rest Arctnrus moves 2" a year; an^l ^lu. must be 
dL to a projectile motion and the attraction of far distant center 

232 I^2:Lif the Quantity of the solar Motion. ^^^^-;^^ 
to the solar motion is a perfect luedium among the [ob] 
velocities fwhich have been considered.] ,^;„vt 

annually 1". 116992. . , , -, 

234 Concludin nemarlsand Inferences. [Objections consi.lcrcd^] 

SI mena/eneral knowledge of the I'^/- ^e. it Xt cal- 
tho 1st, 2d, and 3d magnitudes has been obtaine.i, in i 
culation can be repeated-by the same methods. 



590 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCIIEL^S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, V/.: Synopsis of tiii': AVritings of— Contiuncd. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

180G 9') 2'55 The result of calculations founded on facts, such as we must admit 
the proper motions of the stars to be, should give us useful infor- 
mation, to satisfy the inquisitive mind or to lead us on to new dis- 
coveries. The establishment of the solar motion answers both 
these ends. Our inquiries should not terminate here. A pai)er on 
general Gravitation [by Dr. Wilson] with what is said here, xmts 
us withiu reach of a link of the- chain which connects the iirinci- 
ples of the solar and sidereal motions with those which are the 
cause of so many orbitual ones. 

236 What has been said before of the Sun as an insulated star does not 

contradict the iiresent idea of its making oue of a very extensive 
system. 

237 The insulation refers merely to a supposed binary combination with 

some neighboring star. 

180G 96 455 Observations and Bemarlcs on the Figure, the Climate, and the Atmosphere 
of Saturn and its Eing. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. 
Read June 26, 1806. 

455-457 [Account of Herschel's observations on the figure of the ball.] 
Plate XXI, Fig. 1, represents Saturn in 1789, and Fig. 2, in 1805, 
May 5. 

458 To discover the flattening of the figure of the ball a high magni- 
fying power (500) was necessary. A lower jjower will afterwards 
show it. No error could arise from the defalcation of light May 6, 
1805. 

459-464 Observations of the figure of Saturn. 

462 The flattening at the poles of Saturn is more extensive than on Jupiter. 
The curvature in high latitudes is also greater. At the equator it 
is rather less. Upon the whole the shape of the globe of Saturn is 
not such as a rotatory motion alone could have given it. 

462 1806, June 3. The shadow of the ring on the ball is broader at the 

ends than in the middle. 

463 The breadth of the ring is to the space between the ring and the ball 

as about 5 to 4. The ring appears to be sloping towards the ball. 

463 The shadow of the ball on the ring is not parallel with the outline of 

Saturn. 

464 Observations on the periodical changes of color of the polar regions of 
Saturn. In the observations of Mars {Phil. Trans., 1784, p. 260) it 

has been shown that a periodical change takes place in the extent 
and brightness of the polar spots. I have suggested that this may 
be due [to frozen regions at the poles, varying in aize as they aro 
more or less exposed to the Suu.] 
The following observations may lead to similar conclusions with re- 
spect to Saturn. 
466 The gradual change of color of the polar region during a Saturnian 
year seems to be in a great measure ascertained. This can only be 
confirmed by a long series of observations. 

466 On the atmosphere of Saturn. 

From observations wo may infer the existence of a Saturnian atmos- 
phere. 

467 A probability that the ring of Saturn has an atmosphere has been 

pointed out in a former paper. 
[Dated] Slough near Windsor, June 12, 1806. 



BIBLIOGKAPIIY OF IIERSCHKL's WKITINGS. o91 

Herschel, W.: Syxoi>sis of tiik Winnxos or— Contiimod. 
A. D. Vol. 1>. 

1807 U7 180 Expcrimcr.U for inrcsti<]aiiu<i the Cause of the coloured concentric Rings, 
discorcrcd hj) Sir Isaac Newtox, between two Object-glasses laid upon 
one another. By William IIekschel, LL D., Y. R. S. Read Feb- 
ruary 5, 1807. 
180-181 Introduction. 

182-185 I. Of different inctliod-i to make one net of concentric rings visible. 
185-186 II. Of seeing Eings by Iransmission. 

187-188 III. Of Shadoics. When two or more sets of rings arc to bo ex- 
amined they may be distinguished by casting the shadow of a potiited 
penknift^ upon one set or another. 
188-193 IV. Of (wo sets of Eings. 
193-194 V. Of three sets of Eings. 

195 VI. Of four sets of Eings. 
195-198 VII. Of the Size of the Eings. 

196 VIII. Of Contact. 

197 IX. Of Measuring Eings. 
197-198 X. Of the Number of Eings. 

198-199 XI. Of the Effect of Pressure on the Colour of the Eings. 
199-200 XII. Of diluting and concentrating the Colours. When the rings 
grow wider by using a lens of larger radius, they ai'e said to be di- 
luted. 
201 XIII. Of the order of the Colours. 

201-202 XIV. Of the alternate Colour and Size of the Eings belonging to the 

primanj and dependent Sets. Certain of the dependent sets are rings 

by transmission as seen reflected at the back surface of the lower 

plate. 

202-203 XV. Of the sudden Change of the Size and Colour of the Rings in 

different Sets. This is brought about by letting the shadow of 

the knife-blade fall on one or the other set. 

204-20G XVI. Of the course of the Eaijs bg which different Sets of Eings are 

seen. 
206-207 XVII. Why two connected Sets of Eings are of alternate Colours. 
207-208 XVIII. Of the Cause of the sudden CJmnge of the Colours. 
208-209 XIX. Of the Place ivhere the different Sets of Eings are to be seen. 
209-210 XX. Of the Connection, between different Sets of Eings. 
211-212 XXI. To account for the Appearance of several Sets of Eings with the 

same coloured Centers. 
212-213 XXil. Of the reflecting Surfaces. 
213-214 XXIII. Of the transmitting Surfaces. 
214-218 XXIV. Of the Action of the first Surface. 
218-221 XXV. Of the Action of the second Surface. 
221-222 XXVI. Of the Action of the third Surface. 

222 XXVII. The Colour of the rejlecting and transmitting Surfaces is of 
no consequence. 
222-225 XXVIII. Of the Action of the fourth Surface. 

225 XXIX. Considerations that relate to the Cause of the formation of C07i- 

centric Eings. 

226 XXX. Concentric Eings cannot be formed by an allernale Reflection 
and Transmission of the Eays of Light. 

<'One of the most simple methods of obtaining a set of concentric 
rings is to lay a convex lens on a plain metalline mirror; but in this 
case we can have no transmission of rays, and therefore we cannot 



592 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 
A. D. Tol. P. 

have an alternate reflection and transmission of tliem. If to get 
over this objection it should he said that, instead of transmission, 
•we ought to substitute absorption ; since those which in glass would 
have been transmitted will be absorbed by the metal, we may ad- 
mit the elusion ; it ought, however, to have been made a part of the 
hypothesis." 
1807 97 226-228 XXXI. Alternate Fits of cast/ licflection and easy Transmission, if 
thetj exist, do not exert themselves accordintj to various Thicknesses 
of thin Plates of Air. One end of a plain strip of glass rested 
upon a plain metalline mirror, the other end being separated 
from the mirror by a thin piece of iiaper. A lens resting upon 
the strip of glass gave the primary set of rings, and the sec- 
ondary set by transmission was seen reflected in the metalline 
mirror. The rays which convey the secondary set of rings to 
the eye must have passed through the thin wedge of air ; but 
they exhibited no modification, hence the conclusion. 
228-229 XXXII. Alternate Tits of easy Reflection and easy Transmission, if 
they exist, do not exert themselves according to various Thicknesses 
of thin Plates of Glass. An experiment similar to the preceding, 
but using a slip of glass with sides not quite parallel. 
230-232 XXXIII. Coloured Eings may he completely formed without the As- 
sistance of any thin or thick Plates, cither of Glass or of Air. 
A perforated screen, at the center of curvature of a metal min-or, 
transmitted a beam of sunlight to the mirror. When hair-powder 
was strewn in the beam of light, coloured concentric circles were 
seen about the hole in the screen. 
232-233 XXXIV. Conclusion. The experiments of the last three articles are 
regarded as proofs that the theory of Sir Isaac Newton is untenable. 

1807 97 260 Observations on the Nature of the new celestial Body discovered hy Dr. Ol- 

BERS, and of the Comet which was expected to appear last January in its 
return from the sun. [This was comet, 1806, II.] By William Her- 
SCHEL, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 4, 1807. 
260 As soon as I knew of the discovery of [ Vesta'] I tried to discover its 
situation. 

262 Observations of Vesta. 

263 No disc has been seen even with a power of 636. 

264 Observations of the expected comet. It was searched for and found near 

the expected place by my Sister Carolina, Jan. 27. 
266 Out of 16 comets which I have examined 14 have been without any 

visible solid body in their centre, and two had a very ill-defined 

small central light which might perhaps be called a nucleus, but 

which did not deserve the name of a disk. 
266 Plate XVI. Configurations of Vestn and stars. 

1808 98 145 Observations of a Comet made with a view to investigate its Magnitude and 

the Nature of its Illumination. [This was comet, 1807, I.] To which 
is added an Account of a new Irregularity lately i^erccired in the ap- 
parent Figure of the Planet Saturn. By William Hersciiel, LL. D., 
F. R. S. Read April 7, 1808. 

145 My observations have been directed to its physical coudition only. 

146 Of the Nucleus. By the nucleus, I mean that part of the head which 

appears to be a condensed or solid body, and in which none of the 
very bright coma is included. It follows from this definition that 
when the nucleus is very small a large telescope is required to show it. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEl's WRITINGS. oOS 

Herschel, W.: Syxovsis ok tui? Writings of — Continued. 
A. D. Vol. P. 

1608 t)8 147 Ohscrvaiiom. (By tlio method described in rial. Tram., 1>(\'), ii. o3.) 
Tlie visible disk of tlie comet is a real one. 

147 Illumination of the Nucleus. The nucleus is round and of equal bright- 

ness all over its disk. Its color is a little tinged with red. 

148 Magnitude of the Nucleus. It appears larger at lirst sight than after 

looking a long while. 
148 I put a number of globules of sealing wax at a known distance and 
viewed them during the day, and remembered their [apparent] 
magnitudes. The nucleus was compared with these and must have 
been larger than 2". 47 and less than 2". 77. It was less than the disk 
of Jupitcr^s satellite III. 

150 Of the head of the Comet. [Deiinition of the head.] 

151 Of the Coma of the Comet. [DeOnition of the coma.] 

151 Of the tail of the Comet. 

One side of the tail is very w^ell defined ; the other, hazy. 

152 Of the Density of the Coma and Tail of the Comet. 

I took notice of many small stars covered by the Coma and tail. 
[The observations show that the interposition of the coma or tail 
between a faint star and the eye, dimmed the star.] 

153 Nebulous appearance of the Comet. 

154 Result of the foregoing Observations : 

1.56 The real diameter of the nucleus was 538 miles. 

156 I computed the phases of the comet (see Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, Plato IV, 

p. 162) for two dates. Both phases appear to me sufficiently defal- 
cated to prove that the comet did not shine by reflected sun-light 
only. 

157 If these remarks are well founded, we are authorized to conclude 

that the body of the comet on its surface is self-luminous. Its 
light is more like starlight than moonlight. 

157 The tail and coma are suClicieutly dense to obstruct the free passage of 
starlight; they shine, not by reflection but by their own radiance. 

15'J If I had met the comet in one of my sweeps as it appeared between 
Dec. 6 and Feb. 21 I should have i)ut it down as a nebula. Per- 
haps my lists of nebuliB, then, contain some comets. 

159 Account of a new irregularitij lately perceived in the ammrcnt Figure of 

the planet Saturn. 

160 I have ascribed the flattening of the polar regions to the attraction 

of the ring. In pursuing my observations I perceived a new irregu- 
larity in the figure [of the ball] which I am perfectly sure had no 
existence the last time I examined the planet. 

160 Observations [of the flattening in high latitudes] 1807, June 16, I per- 

ceived it ; it was independently drawn by my son, Joux Herschel. 

161 Dr Wilson, late of Glasgow, sent me a drawing containing the 

same features made with one of my 7-foot reflectors at Hampstead. 

162 Explanation of the "illusion" by refraction of the hglit from the 

l)ody of Saturn in the atmosphere of the ring. 

163 The ring has an atmosphere (see I'hil. Trans., 1790, p. 7). 

1«09 99 259 Contimiationof Experinients forinvestigarvng the Causeof colo,^^^^^^^^ 

centric Rings, and other Appearances of a similar ^ature. By W illiam 
Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read March 23, 1809. 
SSg-^O XXXV. Cylindrical Curves 2)rodMce streaks. 

261 "XXXVI. Cylindrical and spherical Surfaces combined produce coloured 
cllijytical Rings. 
S. Mis. 31 38 



594 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. B. Tol. P. 

Id09 99 2G1-282 XXXVII. Irregular Curves produce irregular Figures. 

XXXVIII. Curved Surfaces are required for producing the coloured Ap- 
pearances at present under consideration. 
203 XXXIX. Coloured Ajjpearanccs cannot he produced between the plain Sur- 
faces of two parallel Pieces of Glass applied to one another. 
This conclusion is derived from the observation that colours appear 
between two such glasses only when they are pressed together with 
considerable force ; but such pressure necessarily produces distorticn 
of form in the glasses. 
264-265 XL. Of the Production of coloured Appearances. 
265 The colours contained in white light may be separated by reflection, 
as well as by refraction. The production of the blue bow at the 
limit of total reflection, as described by Sir Isaac Newton, is an 
instance of this effect. 
266-268 XLI. Particulars relating to the Newtonian prismatic blue Bow. 

A description of the phenomenon, with a calculation of its place and 
breadth in a particular case. 
268-272 XLII. Account of a prismatic red Boiv. 

268 This consists of red, orange, yellow, and some green rays, the red 

colour being very predominant. To see the red bow, an observer 
should place himself in the open air, and, standing with his back 
within a few feet of some wall or building, hold the sides of an 
equilateral jirism flat over his eyes, and look upwards to an altitude 
of about 30° at the heavens. 

269 Calculations relating to this bow. 
270-271 Method of projecting the bow. 

272-274 XLIII. Of a sudden Change of the Colours of the Bows. 

272 If a right-angled prism be laid down on a sheet of white paper before 

a window, and the eye be placed in the proper position for seeing 
the blue bow, we may instantly transform it into red one by cover- 
ing the side of the prism which is toward the incident light with a 
slip of pasteboard. 

273 Relative positions of red and blue bows. 

274-276 XLIV. Of Streaks and other Phenomena produced from the prismatic 
blue and red Bows. 
These may be jiroduced by applying a surface of glass or metal to 
that surface of the prism which produces the one or the other bow. 
276-279 XLV. Explanation of various Appearances relating to prismatic Boivs. 
280-281 XLVI. The first Surface of a Prism is not concerned in the Formation 
of the blue Bow, nor of the Streaks that are produced by a plain 
Glass applied to the efficient Surface. 
281-284 XL VII. Tlie Streaks which may be seen in the blue Boui contain the 
colours of both the Parts of the prismatic Spectrum, by the critical 
separation of xchich the Bow is formed. 
282 List of colours observed in streaks. 
284-291 XLVIII. On the Formation of Streaks. 

This is an efl'ort to determine by calculation some of the features of 
the phenomenon under the supposition that the streaks are pro- 
duced by a reflection, at the surface of the glass plate, of the light 
transmitted by the prism near the critical angle. 
291-292 XLIX. Prismatic Boies, ichen seen at a Distance, are straight Lines. 
292-294 L. The colours of the Bow-streaks owe their Production to the Principle 
of the critical Separation of the different Parts of theprismatic Spectrum. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 595 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wraxixcs of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. p. 

1809 99 294-298 IjI. A Leusmayhclookeduimnasa FrismbeniroundinacircuJar Form. 

299-302 LII. The critical separation of the Colours, xchich takes place at cer- 
tain Angles of Incidence, is the primary cause of the Xewtonian col- 
oured Rings between Object-glasses. 

300-301 A comparison of the similarities presented by the phenomena of 
the rings and those of the bows, modified by a reflecting plate in 
contact with the effective surface of the prism. 

302 LIII. Remarks relating to the Newtonian alternate Fits of easy Reflection 
and easy Transmission. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, December 9, 1808. 
Plates XII, XIII, XIV. 

1810 100 149 Supplement to the First and Second Fart of the Faper of Fxperimenis for 

Investigating the Cause of Coloured Concentric Rings between Object- 
glasses, and other appearances of a similar nature. By William 
Hkrschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read March 15, 1810. 
149-150 A statement of the object of this supplement, and a discussion of 

the distinctions between the red and blue bows. 
151-153 LIV. Supplemental Considerations, which prove that there are two 

primary p)rismatic Botes, a blue one and a red one. 
154-157 LV. Illustration of the Dependence of the Streaks of both Boies upon 

the critical Separation. 
157-159 LVI. Illustration of the dependence of Rings, seen in a Prism, upon 

the critical Separation. 
159-lGl LVII. Remarks on Colours supposed to be produced by thin Flates 
or Wetlges of Air. 
A repetition of the experiment of the 39th Article slightly modified. 
Two slips of plain glass touching at one end were separated at the 
other by a single fibre of silk. It is concluded that the phenome- 
non of coloured streaks seen near the lino of contact is so well 
accounted for by the 35th Article that it Avould not be philosophi- 
cal to ascribe them to plain surfaces. 
lGl-163 LVIII. Illustrating Remarks on the Intention of the Uth Figure, ex- 

jMined in the 48th Article of my Faper. 
1G4-166 LIX. Experiments on the mtilliplying Fower of Surfaces, in contact, 

which modify the form of prismatic Appearances. 
166-163 LX. Of' the breadth of the Streaks compared to that of the Bows, and 
the cause why they must take up a broader space than the Bows from 
ichich they are derived. 
169-177 LXI. Of the Manner in rchich Rays that are Separated by critical re- 
flection or Intromission come to the Eye. 
Plates V, VI. 
1811 101 269 Astronomical Observations relating to the Construction of the Heavens, 
arranged for tlie purpose of a critical examination, the re.^ult of ivhich ap- 
pears to throw some new light on the Organization of the Celestial bodies. 
By William Hersciiel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 20, 1811. 
33-'> ^'Synopsis of the Contents of this Faper." 

[The following analysis is by Herschel himself and has served as a 

model to us. ] 
272 Diffused nebulosity exists in great abundance. 

275 Observations of more than one hundred and fifty square degrees of it. 

277 Its abundance exceeds all imagination. , ■ i ,„a^ 

Nebulous matter consists of substances that give out bght, which may 

have many other properties. 



596 BIBLIOaRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.l Synopsis of the "VVritixgs of— Continued. 
A. D. Vol. p. 

1811 101 278-281 Nebulous diffusions contain both milky nebulosity, and such as 
from its faint appearance may be mistaken for resolvable. 
278-279 The range of its visibility is confined to very moderate limits. 
280 The purpose for which such great abundance of nebulosity may ex- 
ist deserves investigation. 
282 Either greater depth or greater compression of the nebulous matter 
may occasion greater brightness. 

284 Condensation "will best account for greater brightness. 

The condensation of the nebulous matter ascribed to gravitation. 

285 When a nebula has more than one preponderating seat of attracting 

matter, it will probably in time be divided. 
This conception is supported by the appearance of double nebulae. 

286 Their double appearance can be no deception. 
Their nebulosity is derived from one common stock. 

290 This opinion is supported by the remarkable situation of nebulae. 
292 Which may be seen in Mr. Bode's Atlas Coelestis. 

293-296 The real form of the nebulous matter of which nebuliB are com- 
posed may be inferred from their figure. 
299 The form of the nebulous matter of round nebulae is globular. 

This form is caused by gravitation. 
302 The central brightness of nebulae points out the seat of attraction. 
The effect of attraction on the form of the nebulous matter depends 
on its original expansion, on the time of the action, and on the 
quantity of the attracting matter. 

305 III different stages of condensation pointed out. 

306 Comets may be highly condensed nebulae. 

307 Progressive condensation takes place. 

308 Concentric brightness as well as globular form indicates the general 

gravitation of the nebulous matter. 

Progressive condensation may be seen in the formation of nuclei. 

309-310 Nebulous matter is probably capable of being consolidated; the 

act of shining j) roves it to have chemical properties. 

It will stop light, and is partly opaque. 

311 Queries relating to the subsidence of the nebulous matter, the zodiacal 

light, and the cause of rotatory motion. 
313 Soma part of the nebulous matter is probably elastic. 

313 The uniform light of nuclei, and of much condensed nebulae, proves 

that the nebulous matter is considerably opaque. 

314 When the nebulous matter assumes hardness, the progress of conden- 

sation will be impeded. 

315 Three indications of the compression of the nebulous matter. 
Planetary appearance arises from superficial lustre. 

316 High degree of condensation of the nebulous matter. 
A still higher degree of condensation. 

318 In common good telescopes planetary nebulae cannot be distinguished 

from stars. 
Perhaps they may in the end be so condensed as actually to become 
stars. 

319 The nebulous matter in a cubical space of 10' will admit of a con- 

densation of two trillion and 208 thousand billion times before it 
can go into the compass of a globe of the diameter of our sun. 
Planetary nebulae have a rotatory motion on their axes. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 597 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wkitings of— Contimied. 
A. D. Vol. r. 

Tlif original ect-oiitricity of Ihe nebulous iiiattor of a nebula may be 
tlie physical cause of tbo rotatory motion of celestial bodies. 

1811 101 320 The nebulous star iu Orion is fictitious. 

3"21 Two out of three nebulous stars in Orion have lost their former nebu- 
lous appearance. 
Their fictitious appearance was owing to a dispersion of their light 
in passing through nebulous matter. 

322 The faintest appearance of the nebulosity in Orion is perhaps not 

further from us than the stars of the third or second magnitude; 
the brightest jiart is therefore ])robably not so far. 

323 In thirty-seven years the nebulosity of this nebula has undergone 

great changes, and much greater since the time of IIcYGiiKXS. 

324 Nebuho are not permanent celestial bodies. 

325 Additional proof of tbo oi)acity of the nebulous matter, 

325 Very distant nebulosities which cannot be seen in a state of diffusion 
may become visible when condensed into separate nebula;. 

327 Conversion of planetary into bright stellar nebuLe, into stars Avith 
burs, or stars with haziness. 

329 Conversion of more distant ones into faint stellar nebula', into stars 

with burs or with faint chevelure. 
When it is doubtfnl whether an object is a star or a nebula, it may 
be verified by an increase of magnifying power. 

330 When the object is very like a star it becomes difTicult to ascertain 

whether it is a star or a nebula. 
When wo cannot ascertain whether the doubtfnl object is a star or a 
nebula, of which several instances are given, the similitude is as 
great as any we can exjiect; for were it greater there could be no 
doubt. 
336 Postscript. 

[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, May 26, 1811. 

W^ILLIAM HeKSCIIEL. 

336 Plates IV «fe V ; 42 figures of nebuhe. 

1812 102 115 Obserrations of a Comet, with remarln on the Construction of its Different 

Farts. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read December 
19, 1811. [This was Comet 1811, I.] 
115 I have examined all the parts of the late comet with a scrutinizing 
attention by telescopes of every degree of refpiisite light, distinct- 
ness, and power. I have made so many observations that I shall 
only give a selection of such as were made under the most favor- 
able circumstances. 

115 The Flanctary Body in the Head of the Comet. 

Where with the naked eye I saw a luminous appearance not unlike 
a star, with a telescope I found that this spot, which some might 
call a nucleus, was only the head of the comet. 

116 Within its densest part was an extremely small bright ]>oinf entirely 

distinct from the surrounding glare. Its contour was certainly not 
otherwise than round, yet I could but very seldom perceive it de- 
fiuedly to be so. 

116 I examined this point with various magnifiers on a 10-feet telescope. 

With 169 it was about 1".39 in dianu-ter. 

117 With 600 it was between 1".06 and 0".68. The sealing-wax globules 

were viewed the morning after the observation as well as the morn- 
ing before. [See Fhil. Trans., 1808, p. 145.] 



598 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis of the Wpaxixcs of— Continued. 

A. I). Yol. P. 

1812 102 113 The apparent and real Magnitude of the Planetary Body. I call its ap- 
parent diameter 0".775 ; that is, its real diameter was about 428 
miles. 

118 The Eccentricity and Color of the planetary Body. 
The planetary body was eccentric in the head. 

119 The color was of a pale ruddy tint lilie that of such equally small 

stars as are inclined to red. 
119 The Illumination of the Planetary Body. 

We may infer [from observations] that it was visible by rays emitted 
from its own body. 

119 The Bead of the Comet. 

120 [Description of the head.] 

120 The Color and Eccentricity of the Head. 

The color in everyone of my telescopes was greenish or bluish green. 

121 The head was eccentric ; it deviated towards the sun. 

121 The Apparent and Beat Magnitudes of the Head. 

The real diameter of the head was about 127,000 miles. 

122 A Ti'ansparent and Elastic Atmosphere about the Head. 

I saw stars through it ; it was thus trans^jarent. Its elasticity may 
be inferred from its circular form. 
122 The extent of the Cometic Atmosphere. 

It was more than 507,000 miles in diameter; its real extent far ex- 
ceeds this. 

122 The Bright Envelope of the Cometic Atmosphere. 

123 The Figure, Color, and Magnitude of the Atmosphere. 

Its shape was circular; it reached nearly half way round the head 
of the comet, and divided into two streams, one on each side of 
the head. The color had a strong yellowish cast. Its real diame- 
ter must have exceeded 643,000 miles. 

123 The Tail of the Comet. It was, Oct. 15, 23^ long. 

124 The greatest real length of the Tail. 

It must have been upwards of 100,000,000 miles. 

124 The Breadth of the Tail. It was, Oct. 12, nearly 15,000,000 miles. ' 

125 The Curvature of the Tail. 
This was subject to variatious. 

125 Tie general appearance of the Tail. 

126 The tail had two branches. [See observations.] November 9 the 

tail of the comet being near the Milky Way, the apiiearauce of one 
compared to the other was perfectly alike. 

127 27(6 return of the Comet to the Nebulous Appearance. 

As the comet went further from the earth I had reason to suppose 
that all the still visible phenomena of body, head, atmosphere, 
envelojie, and tail would soon be reduced to the semblance of a 
common globular nebula. And this, not only from its increasing 
distance but by the actual physical changes which I observed in 
the constxuction of the comet. 

127 The gradual vanishing of the Planetary Body. 

128 The disappearance of the transparent part of the Atmosphere under the 

cover of the scattered light of the contracted Envelope. 

129 Uncommon Appearances in the Dissolution of the Envelope. 
One, two, and three streams seen in it at different times. 

130 Uncommon Variations in the Length of the Streams. 

131 Alteraiious in the Angle of the Direction of the Envelope. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEESCIIEL's WRITINGS. oDO 

Herschcl, "W.: Synopsis ov tiik Wimtings of- Coiilinucd. 

A. D. Vol. r. 

1812 10-i l;n The >>hortcmn(} of ihc Tail. 

132 Increasing Darkness between the Streams that enclose the Tail. 

133 Of the real consfrnetion of the Comet, and its various Parts. 

133 The form of the phmetaiy hody coiilainiiig th(i solid matter of tho 
comet is gU)bular. 

133 The trausparcnt eomotic atmosi)hero is also globular. 

134 The envelope must have beeu an inverted hollow cone terminating 

at its vertex in an equally hollow cap nearly hemispherical. 

134 This hemispherical cap was comparatively thin. 

135 The construction of the envelope explained. 

The luminous matter as it arises from the envelope, of which it is a 
continuation, is thrown a little outwards and assumes the appear- 
ance of two diverging bright streams ; but if tho source from 

136 -which they rise be the circular rim of a hollow hemispherical shell 
the luminous matter in its progress upwards can only form a hol- 
low cone. 

136 The feebler light of the tail between the streams is due to the thinness 
of the matter in the middle of the hollow cone through which we look. 

136 Of the SoJar agency in the 2>rodnction of Cometic Phenomena. 

137 As a comet approaches perihelion it is [more] exposed to the action 

of the solar rays, which can produce light, hi^at, and chemical 
effects. Their influence on this comet has produced an expansion. 
The way these effects have been produced may be supposed to havo 
been as follows : 
137 The matter in the head of the comet would be dilated by the action 
of the sun, chiefly in that hemisphere of the head nearest the sun ; 
and, being more increased in this direction than the oth(^r, it would 
become eccentric when referred to the situation of the body of the 
comet. The head being what draws our greatest attention, the 
planetary body would appear eccentrically situated. 

137 The nebuloiis matter which, when the comet is far from perihelion, 

is probably spherical, would, near perihelion, be rarefied and rise- 
to a certain level. In this situation we have had an opportunity 
of seeing the transparent atmosphere, which, but for the suspen- 
sion of the nebulous matter, we might never have discovered. 

138 The brilliancy and color of the envelope are proofs of the coutiinied 

action of the sun, and if we suppose the attenuation of the lumin- 
ous matter, already very rare, to be carried on, its particles will 
gradually recede from the hemisi)here exposed to the sun and 
ascend towards the region of the iixed stars. Some such operation 
nnist have beeu carried on. 

138 A whole hemisphere of it being exposed to the sun, it must ascend 

equally everywhere all round this and become a hollow cone. 

139 The luminous matter ascending in the hollow cone received no addi- 

tion to its quantity from any other source but the exposed liemi- 
si)hero. 

139 The tail, near the end, must have been rarefied in an extreme degree. 

139 The vacancy occasioned by the escape of the nebulous matter was 
probably tilled up, either from the opposite hemisphere or by a ro- 
tation of the comet about an axis, 

139 That such a process took place seems to be supported by observation. 

140 A rotatory motion of the comet would explain the variation in the 

len-fths of the two branches of the tail. 



600 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HEESCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, "W.: Synopsis of the Writixgs of— Continued. 

A. B. Vol. p. 

1812 102 140 Of the result of a Comet's Perihelion Passage. 

The quality of giving out light is immensely increased by an ap- 
proach to the sun. 
141 The act of shining denotes a decomposition in which at least light 
(and perhaps many other elastic volatile substances) is given out. 
I look upon a perihelioa passage in some degree as an act of con- 
solidation. 

141 If this idea be admitted, may we not conclude that the consolidation 

of the comet of 1807, when at perihelion, had already been carried 
to a much higher degree than that of the present one, hj some for- 
mer approach to our sun, or to other similar celestial bodies, such 
as we have reason to believe the fixed stars to be ? 

142 It is probable that comets may pass around other suns than ours. 
142 Have we not reason to suppose that the comet of 1807 was compara- 
tively a much older comet ? 

142 Should the idea of age be rejected, we may suppose that the comet of 
1811 since the time of some former perihelion passage may have 
acquired a quantity of " unjjeriheUoned matter" by passing through 
extensive strata of nebulosity. 

142 I think it not unlikely that the matter of comets is originally nebu- 

lous. It may j)ossibly hajjpen that highly condensed nebul* may 
be drawn towards the nearest celestial body of the nature of our 
sun, and, after their first perihelion passage round it, proceed 
towards some other similar body, and finally may come into the 
regions of our sun, where at last we perceive them as comets. 

143 The brilliant appearance of our comet may be ascribed either to its 

having but lately emerged from a nebulous condition, or to its 
having carried oft' some [foreign] nebulous matter. The first case 
will lead us to conceive how planetary bodies may begin to have 
an existence ; the second how they may increase and grow up to 
maturity. 

Wm. Herschel. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor, December 16, 1811. 

1812 102 229 Ohservationsof a second Comet, with Remarks on its Construction. [Comet 
1811, II.] By William Herschel, LL. D., F. E. S. Read March 
12, 1812. 
229 I call this the second comet ; the other of this year the first. 
The Body of the Comet. 

231 The nucleus was 5". 2744 in diameter. 

232 The real diameter of its nucleus cannot be less than 2,637 miles. 

232 The chevelure of the Comet. 

233 The Tail of the Comet. Its length on Januarj' 20 must have been about 

659,000 miles. 

233 Bemarks on the Construction of the Comet. 

234 When the two comets are comjiared they are found to be extremely 

different. 

234 The light of the second comet is probably reflected from the sun. 

The nucleus of the comet is surrounded by an elastic atmosphere, 
which is transparent. 

235 The little extent and extreme faintness of the tail might be ascribed 

to the great perihelion distance of the comet if the comparative 
view of the comets of 1807 and 1811 in my last jiaper did not prove 






BIBLIOGEAPnY OF IIERSCnEL^S WRITINGS. 001 

Herschel W.: Synopsis of the Wiutings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol, p. 

tliat the cfTcct of the solar asciicy depends entirely upon the state 
of tbo nebulous matter of whieh tbo comet is composed. This 
second comet bad probably but little uvperihcUoncd nuitter. 

1812 102 236 If, tben, tbe ctfect of tbe sun on comets is more or less conspicuous, 
according to tbe amount of unperibelioned nebulous juatter -wbieb 
tboy contain, wo may arrange tbeso celestial bodies in a certain 
order of consolidation, from wbich, in tbe end, a considerable in- 
sigbt into tbeir nature and destination may be obtained. 

236 For example, tbe comet of tbis paper is of such a construction that 

it was but little more affected by its peribelion passage tban a 
planet would bave been. It was in a very advanced state of con- 
solidation. 

237 Tbat of 1807 was more affected, and, altbougb considerably condensed, 

convoyed a great qu.antity of nebulous nuitter to tbe peribelion 
passage. Tbat of 1811 contained, witb little solidity, a most 
abundant portion of nebulous matter. 

1814 104 248 Aiitronomical Ohservaiions rclathuj to fhe Sidereal part of ilie Heavens and 
its Conncctmi with the Nebulous part; arranged for the purpose of a 
critical examination. By William IIersciii:l, LL. D. , F. R. S. Read 
February 24, 1814. 
In tbe memoir on tbe nebulous part of tbe beavens [Pliil. Trans.^ 
1811] I bave endeavored to sbow tbe probability of a very gradua. 
conversion of tbe nebulous matter into tbe sidereal appearance. 
Tbis paper refers to tbe sidereal part of tbe beavens. 

249 I Of stars in remarkable situations in regard to Xebulw. 

Surmise tbat nebulaj may bave considerable proper motions. Necee- 
sity of caution in sucb conclusions. Five stars in sucb situations. 

250 II Of two stars with nebulosity between them. 

19 instances of sucb connection are given; in tbo memoir ot IcU, Uo 
double nebulas joined by nebulosity were noted. 

251 Sbould we not surmise tbat possibly tbese stars bad formerly been 

bi-bly condensed nebulas like tbose tbat bad been mentioned, and 
w^re now by gradually increasing condensation turned into small 
stars- and may not tbe nebulosity still remaining sbow tbeir neb- 
ulous origin? Also as we bave over 700 double stars ft-ee from neb • 
nlosity, many of wbicb are probably at no great real dis ance irom 
u s'lt seems as if we migbt bave tbese double objects m tbree dirter- 
ent successive conditions. First, as nebube; next as stars wi b t.- 
maining nebulosity; and lastly, as stars completely free from neb- 
ulous appearance. 

251 III. Of stars tvith nebulosity of various shapes attached to them. 

2'S2 Fourteen sucb objects noted. 

Now if we admit a contact between tbese nebube and tbe stars, i 
d'^erves to be remarked tbat stars iu tbe situation of be.e four- 
teen cannot bave been formed from tbeir adjoining nebulosities, 
fa gradual condensation of tbe nebulous matter would bave been 
central- wbereas tbo stars are at tbe extremity of be nebul.is 
Tbrc;nnection is tben due to some motion ^^f^^^f^^^^^ 
the nebulas. If tbe nebulosity sbould subside into the star, it 
would give an idea of tbe growth of a star. 

253 IV. Of stars ivith nebulous branches. „,>Unlr> and ref- 



602 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 
A.D. Vol. p. 

1814 104 254 The idea of a nebula with a nucleus which gradually assumed the 
lustre of a star is more probable than the fortuitous central meet- 
ing of a star and nebula. 
V. Of nebulous stars. 
Thirteen are noted — see also Phil. Trans., 1791. p. 71. 

255 Nebulous stars are not only connected Avith a nebulosity, which, from 

its great regularity, might be taken for an atmosphere, but also 
with the luminous appearances belonging to the nebulous matter 
♦ which is so widely expanded in various regions of the heavens. 

What has been said of the gradual condensation of the nebulous 
matter in the case of extended nebula, is supported by a much 
greater number of nebulosities in aspherical form. [See Phil. Trans., 
1811, pp. 301-8.] 322 cases are there mentioned, in which the fact 
of the gradual condensation is rendered so evident as not to admit 
of a doubt. 

256 Nebulous stars only differ from round nebula? containing a nucleus 

in the degree of condensation. 
25G VI. Of Stars counccted with extensive xvindings of nebulosity. 

Three cases noted. The nebulosity which has been shown to be con- 
nected with stars, may be fully proved to be of the same nature as the 
general mass of nebulous matter. 

Stars of til is class are in a condition of growth. 

257 Possibility that stars were originally formed by a condensation of the 

nebulous matter. 
We may conceive both the generation and growth of stars to be the 
legitimate effects of the law of gravitation, to which the nebulous 
matter is proved by observation to be subject. 

VII. Of small patches consisting of Stars mixed with nebulosity. 
Thirty-seven cases noted. 

The connection may be only apparent — admitting it to be real: 
1st, it may happen that the nebulosity still mixed with the stars is 
some remaining unsubsided part of that from which they were 
formed; or, 2d, the union of stars and nebulosity may have been 
affected by the motion of either the stars or the nebulosity. 

258 Such motions do take place. Nebulas are subject to great changes in 

their appearance, as the nebula of Orion. [^Phil. Trans., 1811, p. 
320.] 

259 Every nebulosity which is carried into the region of a small patch of 

stars will probably be gradually arrested and absorbed by them, 
and the growth of stars thus continued. 

VIII. Of objects of an ambiguous construction. 

Clusters of stars at a great distance may assume a nebulous appear- 
ance. IPhil. Trans., 1811, p. 270.] 

Telescopes of gradually increasing space-penetrating powers show 
certain objects successively as nebula), mixtures of nebulosity and 
stars, and as true clusters; other objects, so viewed, increase in 
brightness, and the nebulosity becomes more uuiibrmly united and 
of a milky appearance, aud these are purely nebulous. 

260 Definition of ambiguous objects, their classilicatlon and examples. 

Seventy-one such noted in four classes. 
Class 1. Seven objects, which may be supposed to consist of stars, but 
where observations leave it doubtful. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY- OF HERSCnEL's WRITINGS. 603 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Wiutixgs of— Coutiniicil. 

A.D. Vol. P. 

1814 104 2(51 Class 2. Twonty-six objects of round or nearly round fij^uro. Tho 
round figure of these show them to be globular. They nuist either 
be in a condensed state jiurely nebulous, or else, if consisting of 
stars, they nii^st be in an advanced order of compression, and only 
appear nebulous on account of their very great distance from us. 
A middle state between the progressive condensation of a globular 
nebula and a cluster of stars can have no existence, because a glob- 
ular nebulosity when condensed can only produce a single star. A 
globular cluster may, however, intercept a uuiss of nebulous matter 
in motion, in which case the nebulosity must soon assume the form 
of the cluster, and will finally be absorbed by it. 
Class 3. Twenty-six easily resolvable objects. 
S62 Class 4. Twelve objects, probably clusters. 
IX. Of the sidereal part of the Heavens. 
Intimate connection between the nebulous and sidereal condition. 

263 Stars of first magnitude. [See Phil. Trans., 1785, p. G8.] 

264 Prismatic analysis of the light of Sirim, a Orionis, Procyon, Arciurus 

Aldcbaran and a Lyra:. 

265 X. Of the aggregation of stars. 

Star-gauges ijrove that the stars arc not equally distributed over the 

celestial regions. [See P/ii/. Trans., 1785.] 
Forming clusters. This tendency to clustering is chielly visible in 

places extremely rich in stars. Its greatest effects will then be in 

and near the milky way. 

266 The twenty objects referred to are not given as instances of the actual 

formation of clusters, but merely to draw attention to a seemingly 
aggregating arrangement. Fifteen of these are in the milky way 
and five are near it. 

266 XI. Of irregular clusters. 

Clusters in very rich parts of tho heavens arc generally of irregular 
form and imperfectly collected. One hundred and twelve such ob- 

267 jects are referred to ; eighty of size not noted, fifty-three of these in 
the milky way, eighteen near it, nine at a distance from it. Also 
thirty-two irregular clusters from 2' to 30' in diameter ; of these 
twenty-two are in the milky way and ten near it. 

267 The great number of clusters in these two collections is not only an 

indication that they owe their origin to a clustering power residing 
in the centre ; but the still remaining irregularity of their arrange- 
ment additionally proves that the action of the clustering power 
lias not been exerted long enough to produce a more artificial con- 
struction. 

268 XII. Of clusters variously extended and compressed. 

Fifteen extended clusters named; twelve in the milky way, three 
near it. Their descriptions show that the power which has drawn 
tho stars together has acted under difierent circumstances in tho 
several cases. 

269 XIII. Of clusters of stars of a peculiar description. 

Six sucli objects named: one in tho milky way, three near it, two at 
a distance from it. 
271 XIV. Of differently compressed clusters of stars. 

I have hitherto only considered the arrangement of stars in clusters 
with a view to point out whether they are drawn together by a 
clustering power in the same manner as tho nebulous matter has 



604 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herscliel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

been proved to be condensed by a gravitating principle; bat in tbo 
forty-one clusters of the following two collections we shall see that 
it is one and the same power uniformly exerted which first con- 
densed nebulous matter into stars and afterwards draws them to- 
gether into clusters, and which, by a continuance of its action, 
gradually increases the compression of the stars which form the 
clusters. The first collection has thirty-three considerably com- 
pressed clusters, seventeen in the milky way, fifteen near it, and 
one at a distance. The second collection contains eight clusters, 
highly compressed, five in the milky way, two near it, and one at a 
distance. 
1814 104 272 XV. Of the gradual concentration and insulation of clusters of stars. 

The existence of a clustering power is nowhere so visibly pointed out 
as in the thirty-nine clusters given in the folloAving collection: 
Twenty-one of these are in the milky way, seven near it, and eleven 
at a distance. 
273 XVI. Of globular clusters of stars. 

Fourteen such objects noted: One in the milky way, four near it, and 
nine at a distance from it. 
274-7 [Detailed accounts from observing books of M. 72; M. 2; M. 5; M. 

5G; M. 80; M. 13; M. 3; M. 15; M. 79; M. 19; M. 53.] 
278 XVII. Of more distant globular clusters of stars. 

The following eleven objects are so like those of the foregoing col- 
lection that I have called them miniatures of the former. Five of 
these are in the milky way, one near it, and five at a distance. De- 
tailed descriptions given. 
279 I have supposed the clusters of this class to be at a greater distance 
from us than those of the preceding collection, because the stars of 
which they are composed are more minute than those of the clusters 
of which I have called them miniatures ; their compression is also 
closer, and the size of the whole is much contracted, all of which 
particulars are readily explained by admitting them to be more dis- 
tant. This argument, however, does not extend so far as to exclude 
a real difference which there may be in different clusters, not only 
in the size, but also in the number and arrangement of the stars. 

XVIII. Of still more distant globular clusters of stars. 

280 It has frequently happened that I saw three objects in succession, the 

first of which was a brilliant globular cluster of stars, the second 
a miniature of the former in which the stars could just be perceived, 
and the third in every respect a similar miniature of the second, as 
the second was of the first, but in which the stars, though suspected, 
were no longer to be distinguished. Five such objects given, all in 
the milky way. 

XIX. Of a recurrence of the ambiguotts limit of observation. 

281 It has already been shown [VIII, p. 259] that in passing from faint 

nebulosity to the suspected sidereal condition we cannot avoid meet- 
ing with ambiguous objects, and the same critical situation will 
again occur, when, from the distinctly sidereal .appearance, we en- 
deavor to penetrate gradually further into space. 
The effects of clustering power have been gradually traced from the 
first indication of clustering stars through irregular as well as 
through more artificially arranged clusters up to the beautiful 
globular form. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS, 00.5 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis or the ^YRITIXGS of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. r. 

The oxtonded views I have taken in tins and in my fnnncr papers of 
the various parts that enter into the constnictiou of the heavens 
have prepared the way for a final investigation of the universal 
arrangement of all these celestial bodies in space. The scale is still 
wanting by which distances are to bo measured. 
1814 104 282 XX. Of the hrcakhuj ui) of the Milky Way. 

Its whitish thigc has Ijcen proved by star-gaugos to arise from ac- 
cumulated stars. It does not now consist of equally scattered stars. 

283 One hundred and fifty-seven instances have been given of clusters 

situated within the milky way. Sixty-eight more are in the bor- 
ders. Now, since the stars of the milky way are permanently ex- 
posed to the action of a power whereby they are irresistibly 
drawn into groups, we may be certain that from mere clustering 
stars they will be gradually compressed through successive stages 
of accumulation till they come up to what may be called the ripen- 
ing period of the globular form, and total insulation ; from which 
it is evident that the milky way must bo finally broken up and 
cease to be a stratum of scattered stars. 
The state into which the incessant action of the clustering power has 
brought it at present is a kind of chronometer that may be used to 
measure the time of its past and future existence ; and although wo 
do not know the rate of going of this mysterious chronometer, it is 

284 nevertheless certain that since the breaking up of the milky way 
affords a proof that it cannot last forever, it equally bears witness 
that its past duration cannot be admitted to be infinite. 

Thj8 paper is accompanied by Plate IX, p. 284, with 17 figures. 
Flo- l = H.v,46. Fig. 7 = H.iv,42. Fig. 13 = H. viu,44. 
" 2 = H.iii,67. 8=-H.iv,fi9. 14 = H.viii,4. 

3 = H. ii, 706, 9 = H. iv, 33. 15 = H. vi, 3G. 

4 = Hi,143. 10 = H.iii,r.97. 16 = H.vi,5. 

5 = H. iv, 4. 11 = n. ii, 101. 17 --- M. 72. 

6 = H.iv,35. 12 = H.ii,500. 

1815 105 293 A series of ohscrvations of the sateUUes of the Gconjian planet, including 
IBlo lOo ^^:4, ,;,,,„,,,;,,„,,, o/«.dror^,7.s; ^^manintrocluctoryacco.n^t 

of the keseopic apparatus that has heen uml on this occasion ; and a 
final exposition of some calculated particulars ded,acdfro^ the obscn^- 
tions. By William Herschel, LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 8, 181o 
293 A telescope suitable to examine these faint objects must possess the 
double power of magnifying and penetrating into space. 

^^ l^t:';xs:r^^s i"";s:tet ,....>. .., not ,.,o. ..«e 



295 



296 
206 



The'mlchinery of my 20-foot telescope is so ^«°^Pl^!« ^^^f^.;^,,^^^'^ 
been able to take up tl- planet at an early hour m he e^ e.m^^^^^^^ 
to follow it for 7, 8, or 9 hours successively. The 40-ioot teu scope 
has not b en always used because time is required for preparations. 
tI temperature i"s often too changeable ; its use requires 2 work- 
Tuen beside the assistant at the clock and writing-desk. 

The 20-foc:^tn be pointed on the planet with everything adjusted 

It^h^^Z^l^tly been a rule with me not to observe with a larger 
instrument when a smaller would answer. 



606 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the "Writings of— Contimiod. 

A. D. Vol. P. 

I have two mirrors for the 20-foot always ready, and my observations 
are never interrupted by accidents, which often happen to large 
mirrors, such as greatly injure their polish. 
1815 105 296 In these delicate observations no double eye-glass should be used, a? 
we have a waste of light at four surfaces instead of two. 

297 The hole through which the rays pass to the eye should be much 
larger than the diameter of the optic pencils and considerably 
nearer the glass than their focus, for the eye ought on no account 
to touch the eye-piece. 

297 With regard to the eye-glasses when merely the object of saving 
light is considered, I can say from experience that concaves have 
greatly the advantages of convexes, and they give also a much 
more distinct image. This fact I established by re^^eated experi 
ments about 1776. For the cause of the superior brightness and 
sharpness of the image which is given by concaves we must prob- 
ably look to the circumstance of their not permitting the reiiected 
rays to come to a focus. Perhaps a certain mechanical effect, in- 
jurious to distinctness, takes place at the focal crossing of rays in 
convex lenses. 

297 [Foot-note.] [An exxieriment to test this described. It was incon- 
clusive.] 

293 The satellites were discovered with a magnifying power of 157 
only. 

299 Magnifiers of 300, 460, 600, and 800 have been used, according to the 
conditions of the mirror, atmosphere, etc. On particular occasions 
1,200 was used, and 2,400, 3,600, and 7,200 have been used to scruti- 
nize the closest neighborhood of the planet. The known satellites 
began to be nebulous with these powers. 

299 In the following observations the j)ositious of the satellites have been 
determined in 3 ways : Coarse estimations, aided by diagrams ; 
more careful ones, aided by a wire in the focus of the eye-glass ; 
and micrometer measures. 

301 Distances were more difficult to measure than angles of position. 

302 The following observations are given in the order of the time they 

were made. They contain everything that relates to the two 
large satellites and to the researches for detecting additional satel- 
lites. 
That such there are I have no doubt. 

303 After each observation is given an ''identification" which shows by 

computation the places of the known satellites. 

304 The configurations made at the time of observation are not given. 

They generally contained the planet, its satellites and some of the 
neighboring stars, especially those that were in the path of the 
planet. 

304 Observations of the satellites of the Georgian planet, aecompanied hi/ a the- 
oretical determination of their situation, whereiy their identity may be 
ascertained. [From 1787, Jan. 11, to 1810, May 25.] 

322 [Foot-note. ] Telescopic vision in windy weather is generally very per- 
fect. 

343 Investigation of sera'al particulars deduced from the foregoing observations, 

with an exposition of the method by which they have been obtained. 

344 The place of the ascending node, the inclination of the orbits and the retro- 

grade motions of the satellites determined. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCIIEL's WRITINGS. 607 

Herschel W.; Synovsis of the Wiutings of— Continued. 

A. D. Tol. P. 

1815 105 345 Comidcralion of the prhiciphs hy which the periodical revolution of itie 
satcJlitca may he obtained from the observed aiujles of poHilion. 
348 The periodical rcrohiiious of the satellites dctirviiued. 

350 The first satellite [ Titania] makes a synodical revolution in 8'' IC^ 56"" 

5.2^ and the second lObcron] in 13'' ll^' S"" 5'J». 

351 Explanation of the identifying method. 

355 I. With the lij;ht of my 20-foot telescope the first satellite generally 

becomes invisible at a distance of [18"] from the planet; and 

II. The second at about [24"]. 

III. An interior satellite cannot be seen two nights in succession. 

356 IV. Exterior satellites that are very faint when at their greatest 

elongation can hardly ever he seen at any other time when the 
orbits are contracted. 

V. iTitania'} is probably larger than lObcron]. 

VI. Both are subject to great variations of light [not owing to the 
changeable clearness of the air]. 

VII. This may be due to a rotation on their axes, or from atmos- 
pheres. 

VIII. I have supposed the distances of the first and second satellites 
to be 36" and 48" respectively. 

IX. The existence of additional satellites has been considered akeady 
in Phil. Trans., 1798, p. 59. 

358 An interior satellite. 

359 Addition [in regard to an interior satellite]. 

360 An intermediate saiellite. An extei-ior satellite; and Addition. 

361 More distant satellites ; and Addition. 

362 Plate XVI, diagram. 

1817 107 302 Astronomical Obserrations and Experiments tending to inrestigaie the local 
Arrangement of the Celestial Bodies in Space and to determine the Exten 
and Condition of the MUky Way. By Sir William Hersc.iel, Knt. 
Gnelv., LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 19, 1817. 

302 The construction of the heavens can only bo known when we have 

the situation of each body defined by its three dnnensums. Of 
these three the ordinary catalogues give but two, leaving the dis- 
tance or profundity undetenniued. 

303 The method of parallaxes has given the distance of the sun, planets 

etc. The parallax of the stars has also received attention ^^ . h 
rc^ard to more distant objects, as small stars, compressed clusters, 
an"d nebuhe, these methods can give us no assistance. 

303 I. Of the local situation of the stars of the Heavens. 

304 It is evident that we cannot mean to affirm that the stars of the fifth 

sixth, and seventh magnitudes are really smaller than those of he 
first second or third, and that we must ascribe the cause of the 
^:Zr;n the appaU magnitudes of the stars^to a^^^-^ - 
their relative distances from us. On account of the S^f^^'^^^J 
of stars in each class we must also allow that the «tarsof ea h sue 
ceedin.r ma-uitude beginning with the first, arc, one ^^ ith ano her, 

;h:r^::^ us than tlS.se of the magnitude iinmediateyp^ 
Therelativemagnitudesgiveonlyrelativedistances . dcana^^^^^^^ 

no information as to the real distances at which ^^''^ f^^ ^smay be 
304 II. Of a standard by which the relative arrangement of the stars maj 

aX:^ of reference ^r the arrangement of the stars may he had 



608 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEl's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Coutinued. 
A. D. Tol. p. 

by comparing their distribution to a certain properly modified 

equality of scattering. The equality -which I ^iropose does not re- 
1817 107 305 quire that the stars should be at equal distances from each other, 

nor is it necessary that all those of the same nominal magnitude 

should be equally distant from us. 

305 It consists in allotting a certain equal portion of space to every star, 

in consequence of which we may calculate how many stars any 
given extent of space may contain. 
This arrangement is explained by means of a figure. Plate XV, 
Fig. 1. 

306 III. ComjMrison of tlie order of magnitudes ivith tlie order of distances. 
Comparison of the order of distances by the foregoing scheme with 

the magnitudes assigned in Bode's catalogue of 14,144 stars. 
308 The result of this comparison is, that if the order of magnitudes 
could indicate the distance of the stars, it would denote at first a 
gradual, and afterwards a very abrupt, condensation of them ; but 
that, considering the principle on which the stars are classed, their 
arrangement into magnitudes can only apply to certain relative 
distances, and show that, taking the stars of each class, one with 
another, those of the succeeding magnitudes are farther from lis 
than the stars of the preceding order. 

308 IV. Of a criterion for ascertaining the profundity or local situation of 

celestial ohjects in space. 

309 It will be admitted that those stars, the light of which we can ex- 

perimentally prove to be J, ^, -^ of the light of any certain 

star of the first magnitude must be 2, 3, 4 times as far from 

us as the standard star, provided the condition of the stars should 
come up to the supposed mean state of diameter and lustre of the 
standard star. 
309 V. Of the equalization of star light. 

309 Star gauging gave rise to an investigation of the space-penetrating 

power of telescopes. 

310 Finding that this might be calculated with reference to the extent of 

the same power of which the unassisted eye was capable, there 
always remained a desideratum of some sure method by which this 
last might be ascertained. 
Description of experimental apparatus. 

311 Method of limiting a^^ertures described. 

313 VI. Of the extent of natural vision. 

313-8 Experiments on stars made in August and December, 1803, and 
February, 1814. 

314 Arcturus has four times the light of a Andromeda, Polaris, y Ursce, 

and S Cassiopece. a Andromeda is four times as bright as f.i Pegasi, 
etc., etc. 
316 Table of projiortional light of stars of various orders. 

318 The distances of clusters cannot be ascertained by the method of 

equalizing star light. 
VII. Of the extent of telescopic vision. 

319 Experiments which go to show that the diameter of the pupil of the 

human eye is not more than 0.21 inch, and is greater than 0.17 inch 
when observing with a telescope. It may be assumed 0.2 inch. 

320 VIII. Application of the extent of natural and telescopic vision to the 

probable arrangement of the celestial bodies in space. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 609 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis ov the WpvITings of— Continued. 

A. D. Vol. r. 

We shall be able to say that a distant celestial object is so far from 
\\s, provided the stars of %Yhich it is composed are of a size and 
histre equal to the size and lustre of such stars as SirUis, Arcinrua, 
etc. 
1817 107 'Ml The stars of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth order of distances are 
not only more compressed than those in the neighborhood of tho 
sun, but, moreover, their compression in different parts of the 
heavens must be very unequal. 
IX. Of the construction and extent of the milky irai). 
322 General description of it. 

The sun is within its i)lane, for to an observer in latitude 00°, when 
at 100° R. A. the milky way is in tho east, it will at the same time 
be in the west at 280° ; while in its meridional situation it will pass 
through Cassiopeia in the Zenith and through tho constellation of 
the Cross in the Nadir. 
323-4 Examination of the cluster in the Sword Handle of Perseus, with 
various space-penetrating powers. 

325 [Beside the 863 gauges published in Fhil Trans., 1785, p. 221, above 

400 more have been taken in various parts of the heavens and are 
not published.] 

326 The twenty-foot telescope cannot fathom the profundity of the milky 

326 If the stars of the 5th, 6th, and 7th magnitudes cannot be supposed 

to be gradually of a smaller physical size ami brightness than those 
of the 1st, 2d, and 3d, how much less can a supposition be admitted 
that would require that the stars which, by a long series of ganging 
powers have been proved to make their gradual telescopic appear- 
ance should also be gradually of a different construction with re- 
gard to physical size and brightness from those which we see with 

the naked eye? ., ,, i +u^ 

327 The telescopic breadth of the milky way considerably exceeds the 

extent which, in our maps, is assigned to it. 
328-30 Observations— sweeps— which confirm this. 

330 X. Concluding RemarJcs. 

What has been said of the extent and condition of the milky way in 
mv papers on the construction of the heavens, with the addition of 
this attempt to give a more correct idea of its profundity in space 
will contain nearly all the general knowledge wo can ever have of 
this magnificent collection of stars. 

331 Our sun with all the stars we can see with the eye are deeply im- 

mersed in the milky way, and form a component part of it. 

' Wiixi.vji Herschel. 

[ Dated] Slough, near Windsor, May 10, 1817. 

,R1H 108 4-9 Astronomical ohservations and experiments, seleei^d for the purpose of as. 

1818 108 4-9 ^« ^^^^ ^.^,^^.^.^ ^.^,^„,,, ,j. ,j,„ters of stars, and of unrst,oat^ng 

Zw far the power of our telescopes may he expected to reach rnto space 
^Zldirectei to amhiguous celestial ohfeets. By «- ^io^am Hkh- 
SCHEL, Knt. Guelp., LL. D., F. R. S. Read June 11, 1818 
429 The method of equalization of star light will show the re lative d s- 
tances of stars; from this a method was explained in Phi T>a„s., 
18^7 by which means the profundity in space of every object con- 
sfstilig of stars can be ascertained as far as the light of the telescope 

S. Mis. 31 39 



610 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Herschel, W.: Synopsis of the Writings of— Continued. 
A. D. Vol. r. 

suffices. This method may he used to ascertain the profundity of 
glohiilar and other clusters. 
1818 108 430 I. Of the distance of globular and other clusters of stars. 
General principles to guide in such ohservations. 
431 II. J scries of observations of clusters of stars from which the order of 

their profundity in space is determined. 
431-51 Observations of H. \i, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 17, 20, 26, 35, 38, 41, 63, and 
of M. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 22, 30, 33, 34, 35, 53, CS, 
.56, .57, 62, 67, 68, 69, 71, 72, 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 92, 97. 
451 III. Of a method to represent the prof undity of celestial objects in space hy 

a diagram. 
470 Fig. 1, Plate xxi, represents such a method applied to the foregoing 

objects. 
460 IV. Of ambiguous celestial objects. 

An object is often ambiguous when viewed with insufficient optical 
means, and its nature may be known hy increasing this means. 
Objects ambiguous to the naked eye become known with the 20-foot 
telescope, and so on. 

462 V. The milky tvay, at the profundity beyond ichich the gauging potcers of 

our instruments cannot reach, is not an ambiguous object. 

463 We may conclude that when our gaviges will no longer resolve the 

milky way into stars it is not because it is ambiguous, but because 
it is fathomless. 

463 YI. Of the assumed semblance of clusters of stars when seen through tel- 

escopes that have not light and power sufficient to shoiv their nature and 
construction. 

464 Observations of various clusters in telescopes of various sizes. 

465 Two different principles, the nebulous and the sidereal, have been ob- 

served in the celestial spaces. 
Distinguishing characteristics of each. 

466 It seems highly probable that some of the cometic, many of the 

planetary, and a considerable number of the stellar nebula?, are 
clusters of stars in disguise. 
466 VII. Of the extent of the po^ver of our telescopes to reach into sjmce when 
they are directed to ambiguous celestial objects. 
The method of equalizing the light of stars may be applied so as to 

give an estimate of the extent of this power. 
When the united light of a cluster of stars is visible to the [naked] 
eye, there will be a certain maximum of distance to which the 
same cluster might be removed, so as still to remain visible in a 
telescope of a given space-penetrating power ; and if the distance 
of the cluster can be ascertained by the gauging power of any in- 
strument, that will just show the stars of it, the order of the pro- 
fundity at which this cluster could still be seen as an ambiguous 
object may be ascertained by the space-penetrating power of the 
telescope through which it is observed. 
467-70 Examples of this method. 
470 Plate XXI. 

William Herscht-l. 
[Dated] Slough, near Windsor. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCIIEl's WRITINGS. (ill 



VI. — Subject-Index to the scientific writings of Uerschel. 

riHLOSoPHiCAL Tr^vkbactions. Tear. Paj;e. 

Aperture : eifect of 1795 57 

: ailvantages of largo apertures 1800 255 

Apex of solar motion : (lefmed n-^:? 27U 

: defined and eousidored 1SU5 23'J 

: is not at, but near, A Ilerculis 1804 I5G0 

: isiuR. A. 245° 52' 30", N. P. D. 40^22' 1805 25G 

Asteroids: defined 1802 229 

Asteroid : justification of the name 1805 03 

Atmosphere of Mars, Venus, etc. : see Mars, etc. 

Atmospheric spectrum : of stars 1805 43 

Bayer's letters: do not indicate order of brightness. Examples 1790 174 

Bernard: 1792 14 

BiAXCHixi: 1793 201 

Binary stars : suspected 1782 143 

: see also Stars, and Double Stars. 

Bode: 1^11 292 

Bradley: 1~S2 84 

: 1795 47 

363 



33 1 



''''■' 305 

Brightness intrinsic and aggregate brightness defined 1800 .52 

Brightness of a star : defined 1800 .57 

Cassixi: 1792 9 

: 1792 14 

: 1793 201 

: 1795 47 

Catalogue of Double Stars 1~S2 112 

. 1785 40 

Catalogue of 1,000 new Nebulai and Clusters 1~S0 457 

Catalogue of a second thousand of Nebulas and Clusters 1789 212 

Catalogue of 500 new nobul;«, etc 1^0- -177 

Catalogues of the Comparative Brightness of the Stars : first 1790 KU) 

: second 1790 459 

: third 1-9' ^^^ 

: fourth 1^99 121 

Central forces : other than gravity 17^9 220 

Ceres : observations 1'^^-' -1"^ 

: its diameter is 102 miles 1802 218 

: it hasadisk ^^^ ^21 

f 100 

Classes of double stars : defined 1762^ to 

( 103 

Classes of nebulae: defined Ip^' ^^^ 

Clocks: (iised by Herschel) 1^1 1~| 

Clusters: definition '":' ~^ ' 

: are composed of stars of equal magnitude 1 ^s J i-lfa 

: are subject to central powers 1"-^ ^16 

: are ancient in proportion as their spherical form is completed .. 1789 | ^_^^ 

, ,. Iel4 265 

: their evolution 



612 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Teaksactioks. Year. Page. 

Clusters: their relative distances 1818 429 

Clusters of stars : see Catalogue of, etc. 

Clustering power : its analogy with the gravitating principle in nebulas . 1814 271 

Coma of a comet : definition 1808 151 

Comet: [1786, II] observed 1787 4 

: [1788, II] 1789 151 

Comets: [1792,1] 1792 23 

: [1796, I] 1796 133 

: [1806,11] 1807 260 

: [1807,1] 1808 145 

: [1811,1] 1812 115 

: it was self-luminous 1812 119 

: it was transparent and elastic 1812 122 

: its tail compared with the milky way 1812 126 

: its real construction 1812 133 

: [1811, II]... 1812 226 

Comet of 1807 and 1811: their relative age 1812 141 

Comets : the sun's effect on them 1812 236 

: their light is reflected sunlight 1812 234 

: defined 1802 226 

: definitions of Nucleus, Head, Coma, etc 1808 146 

: may become asteroids 1802 230 

: may restore to the sun the light it loses by emission 1795 60 

: out of 16 comets, 14 had no nucleus 1807 266 

: that of 1807, I, did not shine by reflected sunlight only 1808 156 

: the sun's influence on their j)henomena 1812 136 

: the tail and coma of 1807, I, obstructed the light of stars 1808 157 

Construction of the heavens 1784 237 

1785 213 

1789 212 

1791 71 

1795 46 

1802 477 

1811 269 

1814 248 

1817 302 

1818 429 



Diameters of the Stars : see Stars. 

Dione : observaitions 1790 450 

Diurnal motion of the earth : see Earth 1781 115 

DOLLAND (J.) 1780 518 

Double nebula) 1811 285 

Double star observations : effect of practice 1803 346 

Double stars : account of changes that have happened in their relative 

situation, and of the cause of these changes 1803 339 

: change their relative situation as proved by observation . . . 1802 486 

: changes that have happened in their relative situation 1804 353 

: see Stars. 

Drawings of Mars, Jupiter, etc. : see Mars, Jupiter, etc. 

Earth : is its diurnal motion equable ? 1781 115 

Enceladus : discovered 1789, August 28 < ' ^ 

' " < 1790 19 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. G13 

Subject-Index. PuiLoeormcAL Tkansactions. Yoar. Page. 

Enceladu8 : observations 17iKi Aiui 

Errata: in Flamsteed's catalogue 179(3 212 

Error in estimating the centre of a circle IT^l Hi.') 

Errors: in determining rotation of planets IT-^l i:!!-.''} 

: in determining parallax of stars considered 17H'.i -t; 

: of the Lamp Micrometer 2°-;P and 0".l from three measures 1782 ll'i 

: of the measures of double stars 17&2 1 12 

: in the positions given by the sweeps 178(3 4()4 

: of Hekschel's double star measures 180;5 'M~ 

Ether: see Resisting Medium. 

Evolution : of sidereal forms 1789 22(5 

Eye : causes of increased sensibility 1800 03 

: limit of natural vision 1800 58, 59 

: limits of natural vision 1"^17 'M'i 

: extent of telescopic vision 181" ^^18 

Eye-piece : for viewing the sun liSOl 361 

Eye-pieces : single better than double 1"*- 95 

: trial of concave ones 179A 58 

: ofthe40-foot 1~9-'' 409 

: used for solar observation, described 1803 21:) 

: single and double : their relative value 1815 297 

Fabricius(D.) 1~^0 333 

FaculoB : are elevations 1""^ 5" 

Ferguson: 1780509-12 

Fixed Stars : see Stars. 

Flames : are penetrable to rays of light I'^OO 50 

17S'> 84 
Flamsteed: ^_ - ^ 

: his star magnitudes ^ ' -'*' ^ ' " 

Flamsteed's magnitudes : are very inconsistent 1"'^^' 458 

Flamsteed's observations of fixed stars : Index to them 1~9~ ~93 

Galileo: 1780509-12 

1782^ li 

. 1795 47 

Gauging : see Star-gauging. 

Georgiam Sidus : named "^ 

: see Uranus. 

179(5 177 

Goodericke: 

Gravity : there may be other central forces 1 "--' 

. 1792 9 

Hadley: 

• 1 / r \ .. 180o 31 

Harding s asteroid: {Juno) 

Head of a Comet : definition ^*^^ ^^ 

Heat: radiant; in general ^^^^ ^^ 

• ISOO 293 

• ' ' 1800 437 

■• 1801 265 

■ !!.!..-.-.".. 1^01 354 

: (radiant; is of different refrangibility J^j^,^ ^J^ 

: (radiant) is reflected ^"^^^ ^^^ 

: (radiant) it is also refracted ^.^^^ ^3 

Herschel, Carollna: 



614 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Traxsactioxs. Tear. P;ige. 

Herschel, Carolina: 1795 396 

: 1797 293 

: 1807 264 

Herschel, John : 1808 160 

Herschel, William : tlieanalysisof his paper of 1811 as made by himself 1811 269 

HeveliuS: 1780 508 

: 1795 47 

Hooke: 1782 84 

Instruments: Quadrant used 1781 121 

: Camera eye-piece 1782 176 

: see Micrometers, Telescopes, etc. 

Irradiation : 1790 479 

Japefus : observations 1790 432 

: is of variable brightness 1792 13, 14 

: rotates and revolves in the same period 1792 14 

: revolves on its axis in 79 days, 7 hours, 47 minutes 1792 16 

: nature of its su^fi^ce 1792 17 

: observations from 1791, September 25 to October 1 1792 17 

: its atmo.sphere is probably rare 1792 17 

: rotates on its axis 1796 456 

Jiiniter : drawings of 1781 ) 

^ * I 123 

( 118 

Jupiter's rotation: 1781 < 

< 124 

Jupiter's satellites : their changeable brightness, and their magnitudes. . . 1797 332 

: rotate on their axes, and are of irregular shape or reflecting 

power 1797 344 

/ 334 
: theircolor 1797< 349 



Jiipittr's spots change their places 1781 116 

Jupiter's spots gradually rotate in less time 1781 126 

Keill : his theory of variable stars 1780 344 

: 1780 509-12 

Lacaille: 1796 172 

Lalande: 1780509-12 

1783 283 

1796 177 

has shown the probability of a solar motion 1805 235 

Lambert : suggested a solar motion 1805 235 

Lamp micrometer : described 1782 163 

Limiting apertures : 1817 311 

Long: 1782 88 

Lunar eclipses, mountains, etc. : see Moon. 

Magnifying power proper to be used 1782 92 

Magnifying power used (1782) 1782< 

t 171 

: its effect on the darkness of the field of "vniew 1785 82 

■ : must exceed a given limit in order to utilize the aperture.. . 1800 55 

Magnifying power (effective): defined 1815 294 



its atniospliero I7514 '. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. Glo 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Tuaxpactio.vs. Year. Pajie. 

Marius. Simon: l-iio ,;4 

Mars : drawinjr.s of 17H1 i'>7 

on its poles, axis, liguro, etc 17pj4 233 

'24 (Irawiugs 17^4 035 

the polar spot projects beyond tlie disk by its splendor 17d4 237 

polar spots are due to ice 1784 2G0 

271 
272 

: results as to tlie position of its axis, etc 1784 273 

Mars' I'otation time 17,<1 1:54 

Mam' spots are permanent H.-^i ipj 

Maskelyne : liis proper motions of 36 stars 1805 233 

Maupertius : bis tbeory of variable stars 1780 343 

Mayer: 1782 157 

Mercury : observation of its transit of 1802, Nov. 'J 1803 214 

: is perfectly spherical 1803 217 

Messieu's nebnliB examined : (with drawings) 1784 440 

: 1814 284 

: 1818 431 

Methods of observing: limitation of magnifying power 1781 494 

: single eye-pieces better than double 1782 95 

: the telescope to be used depends on the work to be done 1782 82 

: distances of double stars 1782 99 

: the observer, the air, and the instrument must have the same tem- 
perature... 1782 120 

, , . ,. ^ .^ . < 1782 174 

: determination 01 magmtyi iig powers < 

(1/83 9 

: employed in reviews of the heavens 1783 250 

: adjustment of focus 1785 43 

: effect of magnifying on very unequal double stars 1785 51 

: unequal double stars 1785 65 

• a star is not always best seen in centre of the held of view 1785 83 

: sweeps I~i36 458 

: effect of moisture on seeing 1794 54 

: see Telescopes: investigation of the causes which often prevent 

their proper action 1803 

: determination of the diameters of the nuclei of comets, etc., by ( 1808 148 

comparison with globules of sealing-wax C 1812 116 

Method of limiting apertures : l^^l' 311 

Micrometer: used in 1781 ^''^^ ^^^ 

: position (with a plate) 1~'^1 500 

: (lamp) described ^ ''^"^ ^''"^ 

: (lucid disk, etc.) described 1~*' •' 

: threads were silk and were 1" 13'" in angular dinu-iision 1785 46 

Milky Way : resolved 



general description 
in general 



214 



1784 4:J8 



1791 71 
77 



its shape, drawing of it 1"-"* '^^° 

consists entirely of stars 

the telescopic ^'^] 

example of its most crowded parts 1'*^^ '^ 

consists of stars very differently scattered from those about ns.. 1802 480 

, .• 1*14 282 

its evolution 



Mimas : discovered 1789, Sept. 17 



1.^17 322 
1817 302 

1790 :o 



Nebula of Orion : its changes 1811 



616 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL's WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Transactions. Tear. Page. 

Mimas : observations 1790 473 

Minimum visible : (naked eye) 1780 340 

: 1782 95,96 

: to tbe naked eye and telescopes 1805 33 

MiraCeti: 1780 338 

: has a period of 331 days, 10 hours, 19 minutes 1792 25 

MOLINEUX - 1782 84 

Moon : observations of its mountains 1780 507 

: three volcanoes observed 1707, April 19 and 20 1787 230 

: eclipse 1798, Oct. 22 1792 27 

: observations of its mountains 1794 41 

: is probably inhabited 1795 65 

Mountains? in Venus 1793 202 

Mountains of the Moon : see Moon. 

Multii)le stars : examples [and figures] of possible systems 1802 487 

Naked eye : can distinguish a square from a circle 2' in diameter 1780 340 

: 1782 95,96 

321 
323 
: itsdistance 1811 322 

r 442 

Nebulae : drawings of, etc 1784< to 

( 446 
: are often surrounded by spaces vacant of stars 1784 448 

{ 214 
: theoretical view of their various forms 17S5< 215 

( 216 

: planetary 1785 263 

: were plotted on a map 1786 467 

: may all be clusters of stars 1802 497 

: order of evolution 1811 325 

: their proper motions 1814 249 

: drawings 1814 284 

: observations of many of Messier's 1814 274 

: 1818 431 

: may not be distant clusters after all 1791 84 

: catalogues. See Catalogues. 

Nebuhc : Messier's. See Messier. 

NebuliB and Stars : their connection 1814 249 

Nebulae are arranged in strata 1784 442 

Nebulae (double) : their cause 1811 285 

Nebulae (planetary) : may become stars 1811 318 

: they rotate on their axes 1811 319 

Nebular hyi^othesis : see Construction of the heavens. 

Nebulosity : may be close to our system 1802 499 

: diffused nebulosity is plentiful '. 1811 272 

Nebulous matter : its nature 1791 85 

: is elastic 1811 313 

f 309 
: is partly opaque 1811 < 313 

( 325 

Nebulous stars : in general 1791 71 

: observations of special ones 1791 78-82 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF IIERSCHEL's WRITINGS. G17 

Subject-Lndex. Pmi-OsopuiCAT, TuANSACTioss. Tear Pace 

Nebulous stars: ^^^,^2 ^^^^ 

777= 1814 2o5 

Nebulous strata : tlicir origiu 17^- 2:a 

Newtox: '""!!!! 1705 '^e 

Newton's riugs : iu general 1^07 1^0 

'• lf<m 259 

= IslO l-l'J 

Nucleus of a Comet : (lefinitiou IkOS 1-16 

Oheroii : discovered Jan. 11, 1787 (period V.U days) 171-7 126 

: its elemeuts 17^3 \ ^^^ 

I 377 

; is brighter than Titania 17fS3 ^57(3 

: is variable in brightness ISlo 356 

: revolves in 13'^ ll^^ 8™ 59' 1815 :{50 

Observations: are made to jihilosophize upon, and to communicate 1784 438 

: 1785 213 

: practical hints for observing. See Methods of observing. 

Olbers: 1^07 200 

Optical illusion in viewing the moon 1795 53 

Orion : the trapezium is not connected with the nebula 1791 77 

Pallas : observations 1802 213 

: its diameter is 147 miles. 

Parallactic motions : of stars in general 1805 233 

Parallax of the Sun, Stars, etc. : see Sun, Stars, etc. 

Perihelion passage of a Comet : its effect 1812 140 

: 1812 235 

Periodicity of Solar Spots: is connected with the price of wheat 1801 310 

Phases of Comet 1807, I 1808 156 

Photometry: Table of the transmission of terrestrial scattered light 

through various substances, etc 1800 528 

: 1800 533 

: 1800 534 

Photometry of Stars : methods 1806 208 

: See Catalogues of the Comparative Brightness, etc, 

Pigott: 179G 177 

Planetary Nebulas 1802 501 

Planets : all are probably self-luminous to some degree 1795 50 

: defined 1802 224 

: their evolution 1812 143 

Pores: in the Sun 1801 292 

Price of wheat : its connection with Sun spots 1801 310 

Probable errors : see Errors. 

Proper motions : of nebulae 1814 249 

Proper motion : of the sun, stars, etc. See Sun, Stars, etc. 

Proper motions of Stars : their cause 1806 225 

Radiant Heat: see Heat. 

Red Stars : see Stars. 

Reflecting telescopes : see Telescopes. 

RefrangibiUty of heat, etc. : see Heat. 

Resisting medium I'^l 1^'' 

: may stop some light l'^~ ^'^^ 

Resolution of the milky way, etc. : see Milky Way. 



618 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEl's WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Teansactions. Tear. Page. 

Retina: may be less sensitive along one of its diameters than along others. 1794 52 

Reviews of the heavens : 1st, 2d, and 3(1 1783 < ~ 

' (250 

Bhea : observations 1790 444 

Rotation of the planets 1781 115 

Satellites : may be more jionderous towards their primaries 1792 16 

Satellite to Venus : must be less than 8-9 mag. if it exists 1793 206 

Saturn : drawings 1790 2 

: (rough) drawings of it 1790 13 

: has an atmosphere 1790 15 

: turns on an axis 1790 16 

: is spheroidal 1790 17 

: Schroeter's observations criticised 1793 203 

: rotates in lO^i IG^^ 0.^4 J-2"i 1794 66 

: the shadow of the ring on the ball is broader at the ends than at 

the middle 1805 275 

: drawings 1805 279 

: observations on its singular figure [square-shouldered aspect].. . 1805 272 

: 1806 462 

: its figure, climate, and atmosphere 1806 455 

: drawings of it in 1789 and 1805 ' 1806 455 

: may change in color at its poles with its seasons 1806 464 

: has an atmosphere 1806 466 

: shadows of its ball and rings 1794 55 

Saturn's belts : observations in detail 1794 49-59 

: (quintuple) belts, with drawings 1794 28-31 

Saturn's ring : has an atmosphere 1790 7 

: 1808 163 

: principal division 1790 3 

: is as solid as the ball 1790 5 

: is brighter than the ball 1790 5 

: its thickness 1790 6 

: its atmosphere 1790 7 

: its edge 1790 8 

: its division is a real one, as proved by fHerschel's] observations. 1792 4 

: is brighter and whiter than the ball 1805 273 

: its figure, climate, and atmosphere 1806 455 

: the breadth of the ring is to the width of the space between ring 

and ball as 5 to 4 1806 463 

: has an atmosphere 1806 467 

/Safur's rings : dimensions 1792 5 

: the inner ring also revolves 1792 6 

: more than one division has been observed only four times 1792 8 

: are not of a changeable nature 1792 11 

: diameter measured 1792 11 

: the outer is fainter than the inner, etc 1794 53 

Saturn's satellites : see Mimas, Enccladus, etc. 

: Tables of their motion 1790 488 

Saturn's shadow : the shadow of the ring on the ball is broader at the 

ends than in the middle, 1806, June 3 1806 462 

: the shadow of ball on ring is not parallel to the outline of Saturn. 1806 463 

SCHEINER : 1795 47 

Schroeter: 1793 202 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. Hlil 

Subject-Index. Puilosoi-hicai, Tkaxsactions. Year. Pngo. 

Section of our sidereal system 17S.", vJ53 

Separating ijower : see Aperture. 

Sequences : of stellar brightness 17'JG 173 

: description of Hekscuel's method for sta rs 17% 181 

Short: 171)2 

Sirius : effect of the Sun's attraction on Siriun L^OO 2'27 

Solar eclipses : see Sun (eclipses. ) 

Solar phenomena : explained 1801 303 

Sources of error considered : see Errors. 

Space-penetrating power : of telescopes 1800 49 

: HIT 319 

Spectra of stars 1 ■^ 14 204 

: see Stars. 

Spectrum: distribution of the light and heat in the spectrum shown by 

curves 1800 439 

Spectrum (atmospheric) of stars 180r> 43 

Spectrum of the Sun: in its relations to Heat. See Heat. 

SiJeculum : dimensions of the 40-foot 1795 403 

Spots on ATars, Jupiter, etc. : see Mars, Jupiter, etc. 

Spurious diameters : of stars 1*^03 345 

Spurious disks : in general 1805 31 

: of celestial and terrestrial objects 18115 40 

: criterion as to whether a disk is real or spurious 1805 53 

Square-shouldered aspect of Saturn 1805 272 

: 180(5 462 

Star-gauges : results given in part 1 ' 84 446 

I 220 

: results given 1' ^ \ to 

( 240 

: (unpublished) 1^517 325 

Star-gauging : defined l*'^^ 445 

Stars of the first magnitude : eleven pairs of them are 60° apart 1796 166 

Stars and nebulas : their connection or disjunction 1791 74-77 

: their connection \J^\\ 249 

Stars : their parallax 1"'-'^ ^^ 

: parallax ; method proposed 1762 87 

: some stars seen best with high powers, and .some witli lower 1782 92 

: drawings of o. Lyrce with various powers 1782 1 

: double stars known in 1782 1782 9/ , 93 

c 100 

: classes of double stars 1782 < to 

( 103 

: may lose light in space 1 ' 6- 1"'* 

: theory of the parallax of double stars 1782 104 

: very small stars usually rod l'^~ 1'*'^ 

: their- diameters ; a Lyrw's was 0".35 1~6- 1^'' 

: drawing of a GeminorMM 1'^^ 1_ 

: lost since Flamsteed l^^^j^ ~^^ 

: changed in brightness since Flamsteed ^"J'^ '^-^ 

: newly come to be visible 1~^^ ^'^ 

_ ^ ^ 1783 257 

• ."■, 1783 259 

: variable 



jgestiou of a method for determining the stellar system to which 
a given star belongs 



620 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL'S WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Transactions. Tear. Page. 

Stars : spurious diameters 1785 48 

: the colors of double stars might possibly tell us which comijoncnt 

was the nearer 1785 48 

: their atmospheric sjjectra 1785 83 

: are suns 1789 213 

: may be regenerated from nebulae 1791 86 

: disapj)earance of 55 HereuUs 1792 26 

: their nature 1795 46 

: their analogies with our sun 1795 68 

: are not of eqiial size nor equably distributed 1796 168 

: rotate on their axes 1796 455 

: their relative sizes 1800 59 

: their distribution in space 1800 61 

: classification of stellar systems : as Insulated ; Binary ; Multiple ; 

Clustering Stars ; Groups ; Clusters 1802 478 

: their spurious diameters 1803 345 

: different kinds of motion of stars 1805 236 

: that have a projier motion may have a rotation on their axes 1805 326 

: cause of their proper motions 1806 225 

: their spectra 1814 264 

: their evolution 1814 251 

: their distribution in space 1817 303 

: catalogues. See Catalogues. 

Sun: eclipse of 1778, June 24, observed 1781 138 

: may be in motion 1782 103 

: is probably in motion 1782 143 

260 
261 

moves towards R. A. 257° 1783 268 

is near the centre of the Milky Way 1784 443 

the sun is situated in a compound nebula of Form III 1785 244 

eclipse of 1793, September 5 1794 39 

its nature 1795 46 

early theories 1795 48 

must be wasted by emitting light 1795 60 

height of its lucid envelope 1795 62 

may be inhabited 1795 63 

its lucid substance is neither liquid nor gaseous 1795 71 

changes in the sun's he^t will account for changes in terrestrial 

climates 1796 186 

its disk cannot appear equally bright all over ) 

^ ° ( 1800 51 

advantages of viewing it with large apertures, etc 1800 255 

confirmation of previous theory advanced by Herschel 1801 265 

nomenclature of its various parts 1801 267 

its atmosphere 1801 300 

its spots change, and this change is connected with changes in the 

price of wheat 1801 310 

our sun is an insulated star 1802 479 

direction and velocity of its motion 1805 233 

reasons for admitting a solar motion 1805 234 

the quantity and velocity of its motion 1806 205 

it is a member of a very extensive sidereal system 1806 236 

its eftect on comets 1812 136 



its prof)er motion discriminated 1783 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEl's WRITINGS. 



(;2i 



Subject-Index. PniLOSOPHicAL Lnstulctions. Trar. 

Sun spots : are veiled over with nebulosity IT'jf) 

: observed 1705 

: penumbra 17'jr, 

Sun's emission of light and heat : is variable isoi 

Sun's motion in space : its quantity assigned 1806 

Sweeps : method described 1780 

: with the 40-foot 171)5 

: with 40-foot telescope it would require 812 years to view the 

whole heavens 1800 



r)7 
49-58 

62 
^ 205 

23:$ 
458 
384 

84 



Telescopes : (Herschel's 4-iuch Newtonian described) 

Dolland's 3i-foot refractors 

(Herschel's 7, 10, 20 feet) 

used by Herschel 

(Herschel's 20-foot described) 

(Herschel's 20-foot sweeping telescope described) 

experiments with various magnifying powers 

the 20-foot was much tarnished in 1788. 

those made in 1793 

(Herschel's 40-foot described) 



account of Herschel's telescopes in general 



: their space-penetrating power, etc.; general theory 

: data as to Herschel's reflectors 

: advantages of large apertures 

: light- gathering power 

: measure of their etfectiveness 

: description of one with a glass mirror 

: investigation of the causes which often prevent their proper action 

: spurious diameters 

: power to determine very small angles 

: there is a limit for each telescope below which it cannot distin- 
guish a real from a spurious diameter 

: (Herschel's 20- foot and 40-foot— their relative convenience) 

: generally perform well in windy weather 

: magnifying powers used. See Magnifying powers. 

Telescopes penetrate into space 

Telescopes penetrate space : example on a terrestrial object 

Telescopic milky way 



Teihys: observations - 

Titan : transit observed 1789, November 2 

: observations • 

Titania : discovered January 11, 1787 (period Sf days) . 



— : its elements 



: is brighter than Oberon . . 

: is larger than Oberon 

: is variable in brightness. 

: revolves in 8^ 16^ SO"" 5^; 



Uranus : discovered 1781, March 13 
: diameter is 5" .022 



1780 


513 


1780 


518 


1781 


121 


1783 


249 


1784 


437 


1786 


457 


1786 


500 


1794 50,51 


1795 


347 




347 


1795 . 


J 348 




(349 


1800 


49 


1800 68-81 


1800 


235 


1800 


55 


1800 


65 


1803 


214 


1803 


214 


1803 


345 


1805 


31 


1805 


62 


1815 


295 


1815 


322 


1789 


213 


1800 


67 


1791 


77 


1791 


84 


1790 


456 


178018,441 


1790 


438 


1787 


126 


1788 


366 


1788 


377 


1798 


78 


1815 


356 


1315 


356 


1815 


350 


1781 


492 


1782 


171 



I 17 



622 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HERSCHEL^S WRITINGS. 

Subject-Index. Philosophical Transactioks. Year. Page. 

Uranus: is round 1783 11 

: diameter (about 4') 1783 13 

: lias no ring ; and it is flattened at tlie poles 1798 70 

: certainly lias more than two satellites 1817 302 

Uranus' satellites : four new ones discovered 1798 47 

: the system of six satellites explained 1798 66 

: vanish near the planet 1798 76 

: observations 1815 293 

: observations from 1787, January 11, to 1810, May 25 1815 304 

: were discovered with a magnifying power of 157 1817 298 

Variable stars : Mira Ceti 1780 338 

: perhaps 34 Cygni has a period of 18 vears < 

i i- ^^ ^ ' < 1796 457 

: a Herculis is a periodical star 1796 452 

: have dark spots on their surface 1796 455 

: may have a proper motion 1805 236 

Venus' diameter at distance one, is 18' '.79 1793 217 

Venus : in general 1793 201 

: rotates and has an atmosphere 1793 201-2 

: its mountains ? 1793 202 

: observations from 1777, April 17, to 1793, May 20 1793 203 

: drawing 1793 204 

: is suddenly much brighter round the limb 1793 218 

: its unilluminated half has been seen 1795 51 

260 

266 

Volcanoes : observed in the moon 1787 230 



Vesta : observations 1807 



r 310 
Wheat : its price is connected with changes in the sun 1801 < to 

( 318 

Wilson : has shown the possibility of a solar motion 1806 235 

: 1808 161 

: 1783 283 

Zodiacal light : 1811 311 

Zone catalogues made : 1795 396 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



In the latter part of the year 18S0 the following circular was sent to 
all known observatories in America and to a number of foreign estab- 
lishments : 

[Circular.] 

Smithsonian Tnstitt-tiox, 

Washington, J). G. 

My Dear Sir: It is desired to present in the annual report of this 
institution a yearlj- summary of the state and progress of astronomy in 
the United States and elsewhere. To this end it is requested tliat the 
directors of observatories, public and private, will return this circular, 
with the blanks tilled out, and with such additional information as they 
may deem suitable for publication. 

It is intended that one such circular shall reach every observatory, 
public or private, in the United States; if any have been omitted it has 
been by inadvertence, and notice of such omissions is desired by the 
editor (Prof. Edward S. Holden, U. S. Naval Observatory, Washing- 
ton, D. C). 

It is proposed to continue the summaries in the future, and it is hoped 
that the directors of the various institutions will desire to furnish from 
year to year brief sketches of the activity of the observatories under 
their charge. In this way a record of current astronouiical work will 
be kept up, which otherwise it is dilhcult to maintain in the absence of 
any American periodical specially devoted to astronomy. 
Very truly yours, 

Spencer F. Uaird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institiition. 
To . 

The information asked for embraced : 1. The Personnel : II. The In- 
struments employed: («) Meridian circles; (&) (//) Meridian transit in- 
struments; (c) (c') Equatorial instruments ; (ri) Spectroscopes ; (f) I'ho- 
tomers and other subsidiary api^aratus ; (/) Chronographs ; {(j) Clocks ; 
{h) Chronometers; (i) Miscellaneous instruments: III. The character of 
observations made or contemplated. 

Replies to this circular received up to March 15, 1881, are given be- 
low, in two classes: Reports of American observatories, and reports of 
Foreign observatories. Additional information of a statistical nature 
has been obtained from an article in the Anmiaire de VOhservatoire 
Eoyale de Bruxelles, 1881; which has been translated by Miss Lockwood. 

In the absence of Professor Holden (at the Washburn Observatory, 
Wisconsin) Mr. George H. Boehmer, of the Institution, has attended to 
the arrangement and editing of these Notices. ^^ 



624 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



I. AMEEICAN OBSEEVATORIES. 



Albany, New TorJc. 

Dudley Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasliiiigton, 13°^ 12^87 E. 
Latitude, 42° 39' 49".5 X. 
Directors : B. A. Gould, 1854 ; 

O. M. MiTCHEL, 1859 ; 
G.W. Hough, 1862; 
L. Boss, 1875. 
Founded in 1851, by subscription, the principal subscriber being Mrs. 
Blandina Dudley. Built in the form of a cross, with wings east and 
west for the meridian instruments. Finished in 1854, and inaugurated 
in 1856. 



Alfred, Alleghany County^ New York. 
Alfred Observatory. 



Longitude from Washington, 2™ 55^ W. 
Latitude, 42° 15' 19".8 K 
Director : ? 



Alleghany City, Pennsylvania. 
Alleghaiiy Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, ll°i 50^.84 W. 

Latitude, 40o 37' 47".6 K 

Director : S. P. Langley. 

Assistant: F. W. Very. 

Founded in 1860 as an annex to the University ; completed in 1867 
through the liberality of W. Shaw. The dome, 26J feet (eight meters) 
in diameter, contains an equatorial. 
Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Troughton & Simms; 
aperture, 4 inches; magnifying power, 150 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, Fitz, re- worked by Clark; 
ai^erture of objective, 13 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 
to 1200; equatorial carries a 12-inch flat mirror by Clark at south end 
of its polar axis; also, position filar micrometer, polarizing solar eye- 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOKIES. <;25 

piece; apparatus for projecting' solar image; eight other fsuhsiUiary 
pieces. 

{(1) Spectroscopes: one employing large TtrTUEKFURD grating; one 
with small grating; one 2-prism spectroscope; ai>paratus tor using largo 
ecpiatorial as collimator, «^'c. 

(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus : A variety of tln-r- 
uiopiles, used in connection with a Thompson reflecting galvanometer; 
large Bunsen photometer; small i)ortable heliostat, &(•. 

(/) Chronograph : one of Bond's pattern, built by II A:\rnLET. 

{g) Clocks: two mean time; by HowAKU, both break-circuit: one 
sidereal ; by Fiiodsiiam, break-circuit, 

{h) Chronometers : one mean time; by Fkodsham: one sidereal; 
Feodsham, break-circuit. 

(/) Miscellaneous : One reflecting telescope of 0.]-inch aperture, spe- 
cially used for obtaining an image projected any size without the em- 
ployment of any enlarging lenses, ami a number of subsidiary pieces 
for investigations in heat and light. Electric appliances for the distri- 
bution of exact time, automatically aud continuously to points outside 
the observator}'. 

The work of research during the past year has lain chielly in meas- 
urements of the distribution of energy in the spectrum of the sun. The 
routine work of the time service has been continucHl. 

WOKK proposed for THE COMINO YEAU(1S81): 

(1.) The redetermination of the solar constant. 

[2.) Eedetermiuation of the law of the distribution of energy in the 
solar spectrum as it is observed after al)sorptiou by our terrestrial 
atmosphere. 

(3.) Determination (for the first time) of the law of the absolute dis- 
tribution of the solar energy, or in other words the construction of a 
curve showing the distribution of the solar energy as it would appear 
to an observer stationed outside of the eartli'S atmosphere. 

Professor Langlby is now absent witli a large party prosecuting Ins 
investigations on the solar constant, on one of the ligh mountains in 
Southern Xevada. 



Amherst, ]\rassachusetts. 

College Observatory. 

Longitude trom ^^^lshington, 18"' i\S E. 

Latitude, 42° 22' irV'.G K 

Director : W. C. Esty. 

Founded in 1857 as an annex to the College. 

S. Mis. 31 40 



(526 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Ann Aebor, Michigan. 

Detroit Observatory. 

Longitude from Watshingtou, 26°^ 43M W. 
Latitude, 42° 16' 48". K. 
Directors : F. BRtJNNOW, 1S54 ; 
J. 0. Watson, 1858; 
M. W. Haerington, 1879. 
Annex of the University of Micliigan. Projected in 1852, commenced 
in 1853, completed in 1854. The ])rincipal structure is surmounted by a 
dome and has two -svings. About thirty i)lanetoids have been discov- 
ered there. 



Annapolis, Anne Arundel County^ Maryland. 
U. S. Naval Academy Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 2™ 15^61 E. 

Latitude, 38° 58' 53".48 N. 

Authority for latitude, Professor Chauvenet 5 for longitude, United 
States Coast Survey. 

Director: Lieut. Commander P. F. Harrington, head of department 
of Astronomy, Navigation, and Surveying. 

Assistants : 1. Lieut. Commander C. J. Train, U. S. Navy ; 

2. Lieut. Commander E. P. Eodgees, U. S. Navy ; 

3. Lieut. W. J. Barnette, U. S. Navy. 

INSTRUMENTS: 

[a) ATeridian circle: one; makers, Eepsold, Germany; diameter of 
circles, 30 inches ; divided to 2' ; read by 4 microscopes to 2". Aperture 
of objective, 4 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture emjiloyed, 
— inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 80 diameters. 

{b) Meridian transit instriiment: maker, WIjrdemann; aperture, 2 
inches ; magnifying i)Ower, 40 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Al VAN Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 1% inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 40, 106, 553, 
and W)(\ ; micrometer eye-pieces, 89, 226, 673. 

(/) Chronographs: one Morse fillet; one Transit of Yenus Commis- 
sion. 

(g) Cloclc : one sidereal; makers, Arnold, Chas. Frodsham, London. 

(//) Chronometers: five, mean time; makers, Negtjs, Nos. 1030, 1088, 
1260; Dent, 2099; Hatton, 262: two sidereal; maker, Negus, Nos. 
1520, 1527. 

{i) Miscellaneous : one Talcott's zenith telescope ( WDrdemann) ; one 
Transit of Venus telescope (Stackpole); portable transit (Wurde- 
mann). 

The officers attached to the observatory are not practical astronomers, 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 027 

and they are fully occupied iu duties of instruction in the Department 
of Astronomy, Xavigatiou, aiul Surveying-. The instruments are used 
in the course of instruction, but regular observations are not made for 
purposes of astronomical investigation. 



liATTLE Creek, Calhoun Coioifi/, MkhUjan. 
HUjli ^School Obscrvaionj. 

Longitude from Wasliington, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Director: Arthur K. Bartlett (private observer). 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: one; aperture of objective, 4 inches; for obser- 
vations of the sun, aperture employed, 2 to 4 inches ; magnifying i)ower 
ordinarily employed, 75 diameters. 

(/) MisceUaneoits : The only instrument at present used in the "Obser- 
vatory" is a 4-inch achromatic telescoi)e, which was purchased by the 
board of education, about nine years ago, for the use of students and 
teachers in the high school. It was manufactured by Pike, the Xew 
York optician, and is mounted ui)on a portable tripod stand, provided 
with all the necessary adjustments. For the general observations of 
astronomy, it is regarded as one of the best telescopes in this State. 



Bethlehem, Fenmylrania. 

Bethlehem Ohsercafory. 

Longitude from Washington, C™ 40M9 E 
Latitude, 40° 30' 23".l) N. 
Director : ! 



Brooklyn, Xew YorJc. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, ! 

Latitude, "? 

Director : G. P. Serviss. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, John Byrne, Xew York; aper- 
ture of objective, 3| inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 320. 
By a double concave, or Barlow, lens of C inches focus these powers 
are each about doubled, with slight loss of light. In use, five eye-pieces 
and a prism. Also, a common spy-glass of 1| inches clear aperture, 
used for counting sun-spots and other observations; power, 25 diam- 



628 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

eters. By lengthening the eye-tnbe as described in Dick's '•Practical 
Astronomer" this power can be about doubled. 

[g) Clod's : A good watch, and clock of ordinary construction. 

Observations during the past year (from October, 1879, to 
March, 1881) : 

Observations of sun-spots ; keeping a daily map of the sun, on which 
tlie positions and number of spots are denoted ; a weather record kept 
in connection with observations of sun-spots ; also, observations of the 
Xjriucipal planets and the moon to detect physical changes; aLvo, observa- 
tions of uebulse and star-clusters, and of double stars, for color. Atten- 
tion has been given to making naked-ej'e estimates of the comparative 
brilliancy of the larger stars. As the result of a great many observa- 
tions it is found that Arcturus slightly exceeds Capella, and that Vega 
is considerably inferior to both those named. This winter, for the first 
time, Rigel has seemed slightly superior to Betehjuese. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

Continuation of sun-spot observations in connection with a weather 
record; observations of the moon, planets, &c. 

Principal publications of the observaiory: 

Many editorial paragraj^hs and other articles on astronomical subjects 
in the New York San. 

Additional information : 

Since January 1, 1881, a daily record has been kept of the sunset 
colors and their intensity, on the supposition that such a record may 
possibly have some value for meteorological purposes. A record has 
also been kept of meteors and other celestial phenomena. 



Brooklyn, New York. 
Frivate Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, ? , 

Latitude, ? 

Director: W. T. Gregg. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, William T. Gregg ; aperture of 
objective, 6;^ inches; magnifying powers of eye-i^ieces, 50 to 600. 



Buffalo, Erie County^ Neic York. 
Frivate Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 7"' 31^05 W. 
Latitude, 12o 54' 9".5 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Eeport for 18G2 of the Ecgents 
of University of State of New York. 
Director : Henry IMills. 



EEP0KT8 or ASTKONOMICAL OliSEUVATOKlKS. (il'O 

Instruinients: 
(a) Telescope, not equatorial : niakcr, liAUDor: apcitiire of <.l)i('(tivo, 
3 inclies: for observations of Hie sun, aperture employed, 3 iuclies; 
luagnifying power ordinarily oni])loyed, ."iO to L'50 diameters. 
Observatio>:s uuI^T^■(^ the past year: 
Observations on sun-s])ots and comets and sueli oHkt erlestinl jtlie- 
nomena as come witliin tlie ran.i;e of tlie instrument. 



BrFFALO, Eric Coinifij, Xetc York. 

Priratc Observatory. 

Longitude from AVasliington, ? 

Latitude, '. 

Director : James AV. Ward. 
Assistants : AVife and friends. 
Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument. 

[c] Equaiorial instrument: maker, John Byrne, New York City; 
apertnre of ol)jective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, GO, 80, 
l.-^O, 200, 330, 400; nsefnl with liarlow lens to 550. 

(/<) Chronometer: one mean time; maker, Samuels, l-iverjMX)]. 

(/) Miscellaneous : DollAND, If inches, used roughly on alt azimuth 
swivel for southern transits, &c. 

Observations during the past year: 

[h) ObseiYatious of Jupiter with memoraiuhi; observations on the 
sun's spots; observations double stars and "sweei)ing"; observatitins 
searching the floors of the lunar plains. 

AVoRK proposed for the coming year (1S81): 

As before, with illustrated astronomical instruction to a class of ama- 
teurs. 



ambridg e, Massaeh usctts. 

The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. 

Longitude from Washington, 23'" 41M1 E. 
Latitude, 42° 22' 48".3 ^\ 
Directors: W. C. Bond, 1831; 

G. P. Bond, 1800 ; 

J. WiNLOOK, 18G6; 

Edward C, Pickering, 1875. 

Ass'itants: Miss E. G. Saunt)ers, 
Miss S. C. Bond, 



€30 EEPORTS OF ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATOEIES. 

Mrs. Anna Winlock, 
Mrs. R. T. EoGERS, 
^Y. V. Brown, 

A. W. Cutler, 

J. Rayner Edmunds, 

B. PiCKMANN Mann, ' 
William A. Rogers, 

Arthur Searle, 

Frank Waldo, 

O. C. Wendell. 
Annexed to Harvard College ; projected in 1810; ground acquired in 
1827; instruments set up in 1839; a central structure, with a great dome, 
two wings, two i^avilions, surmounted by domes at the extremities of 
the wings. Here it was that G. P. Bond discovered in 1818 the seventh 
satellite of Saturn {Hyperion)^ and in 1850 the dusky interior ring inside 
the bright rings of that planet. This observatory possesses one of W. 
C Bond's chronograi^hs, mounted in 1849, and an equatorial of 20^ 
inches (0™.G8) aperture. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: makers, Troughton & Simms (glasses by Alvan 
Clark & Sons) ; diameter of circles, 36 inches ; divided to 5' ; each cir- 
cle read by 4 microscopes to O'M; aperture of objective, 8^ inches: 
for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 8^ inches; magnifying 
X)ower ordinarily employed, 300 to 350 diameters, (a') East transit cir- 
cle, by Troughton & Simms; diameter of circles, 48 inches; divided to 
5'; each circle read by 4 microscoijes to 0".2; aperture of objective, 
44 inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : one made by Herbst, of Pulkowa; 
aperture, 2| inches ; magnifying power, up to 200 diameters. {!)') Large 
photometer, mounted in the meridian, for comparing images of stars 
during transit. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : one made by Merz ; aperture of objective, 
15 inches ; magnifying j)owers of eye-pieces, 100 to 2000. [c') West equa- 
torial, by Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture, 5^ inches. 

{d) 8x)ectroscopcs : three, described in vol. viii of the Annals of the 
Observatory. 

{c) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus : One Zollner i)hoto- 
meter, and several photometers of other kinds. 

(/) Ghronofiraphs : two, spring governors, by W. BoND & Son; one 
small barrel chronograph. 

{g) Clocks: one mean time; maker. Bond, 394: one sidereal; makers, 
Frodsham, 1327; Bond, 312. 

(h) Chronometers: two sidereal; makers, Frodsham, 3451; Bond, 
230; one thermometric chronometer, Frodsham, 3424. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Comet-seeker and other small telescopes and appa- 
ratus. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOKIES. ('):U 

Observations during the past year (tVoui Novciuber 1, 
1870, to November 1, 1880) : 
{a) Observations for clock error; determinations of absobite ]»laces 
of 100 stars; observations for dilference of longitude, Caiiil»ridge and 
New Haven. 

{h') Photometric comparisons of stars visible to the naked eye ; about 
40,000 observations made. 

(c) {&) Micrometric and idiotometric observations of the satellites of 
]\Iars (including 1,103 position angles and 245 distances) ; photometric 
observations of 41 eclipses of Jupiter's satellites; observations of plan- 
etary nebuhe; discovery and exannnation of stars with unusual spec- 
tra ; observations of variable stars, comets, asteroids. 

Work proposed for the coming year (18S0-'81): 
Continuation of observations now in progress. 

Principal publications of the observatory during the 
YEAR 1879-80 : 

1. Annals of the Observatory, vol. xi, part i, 1S70. 

2. Annals of the Observatory, vol. xi, part ii, 1880. 

3. Annals of the Observatory, vol. xii, 1880. 

4. Thirty fourth Annual Eeport, 1880. 

5. E. C. Pickering, Dimensions of the Fixed Stars, published in voL 
xvi of the Proc. Amer. Acad., 1880. 

0. W. A. EoGERS, Standards of length, published in vol. xv of the 
Proc. Amer. Acad., 1880. 



Cambridgeport, Mass. 
Frirate Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 23'" 49« E., approximately. 

Latitude, 42° 21' 50" N., approximately. 

Director: Fj.F.Hawy^r. 

For the past four years the director has been principally engaged in 
recording meteoric observations, haviug published from time to time lists 
of bright meteors, stationary meteors, meteor showers, &c., and has also 
compiled two catalogues of " lladiant points of meteors," deduced from 
some 1,100 or 1,200 meteor tracks. Has also collected a series of obser- 
vations on the variable stars ,> Ceti, y Aqnila, /? Lyr(c, o Cephd, and 
P Scuti, &c., and, under the head of miscellaneous phenomena, has swept 
some for comets, &c. Observations have been published in the Astr. 
Xachrichten, Observatory, Monthly Notices, Science Observer, American 
Journal of Science, &c. During the coming year, generally the same 
field of observation will be occupied. Telescopic observations have been 
principally made with a 3=| inch Bordan, on portable equatorial stand 
with divided circles, but no clock-work. 



632 KEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Chicago, Coolc Counti/, IlUnois. 
Dearborn Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasliingtou, 42'» 14^G9 W. 

Latitude, 41o 50' 1" N. 

Directors : T. H. Saffokd, 1865 ; 
G. W. Hough, 1S75. 

Anuexed to the University. Founded by subscription in 1822. In 
1864 it came into possession of an equatorial of 18i inches (0™.47) aper- 
ture, made by Alvan Clark, with the assistance of which S. ^\\ 
BURNHAM has made a close and most interesting study of many double 
stars. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: makers, Eepsold & Son; diameter of circle, 40 
inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to O'M; aperture of object- 
ive, 6 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 3 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: makers, Alvan Claek & Sons; aperture 
of objective, 18^ inches ; magnifying jiowers of cye-j)ieces, positive, 120, 
190, 287, 385, 900; negative, 135, 225, 450, 900. 

(/) Chronograph: G. W. HoUGH ; cylinder recording. 

{g) Clocks: one mean time; makers, Howard & Co.; Graham escape- 
ment, mercury pendulum : one sidereal: makers, Charles Gortner & 
Co., London; Graham escapement, mercury pendulum. 

[h) Chronometer : sidereal; makers. Bond & Son. 

(i) Miscellaneous: signal mean time clock for transmitting time sig- 
nals. 

Observations during the tast year (from January, 1880, to 
March 1, 1881): 

(a) Eepsold meridian circle. Observations for " Time." 

(c) Micrometer observations of the satellites of Uranus. Micrometer 
observations on the planet Jupiter. (1) Great red spot ; longitude, lat- 
itude, length, breadth, &c. (2) Equatorial white spots ; longitude, lat- 
itude, length. (3) Miscellaneous spots; longitude, latitude, length. 
(4) Position and magnitude of the equatorial belt. (5) Position and 
magnitude of the faint belts. (6) Physical observations. Comet obser- 
vations for positions. Miscellaneous work. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

Satellites of Uranus. 

Jupiter continued. 

Miscellaneous. 

Principal publications of the observatory during the 
Y^EAR 1880: 
G. W. Hough, Eei)ort of the Director. Pamphlet. 

Satellites of Uranus. Astron. Nachr. 
Eed spot on Jupiter. Astr. Eegister. 
Observing seat for the equatorial. Monthly Kotices. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSER^•ATORIES. 



G33 



Additional information: 
The great e(iuatorial lias been used as lieretoforc by Mr. S. W. r.riiN- 
HAM for double-star observations. His report is appended. 

Beport of S. 11'. linruham. 



Title. 



An esaminat ion of the double star moasuics of 
the Bedford catalogue. 

The diseovory of k Poffa.'^i as a close double -star.. 

Tlie binary star, ^ Deijiliini 

New double star, cr Auri.<;;D 

The multiple star, P. xxiii, 100 (O:: 49(!) 

Notes on double staT-s 

New double star, 5 Per.sei 

^Lyrse 

40 Leonis Minoris. new double 

Xew double star, 9 Per.sei 

The double star, S 2.'n8 

The double star, 2 2789 

(/(I Aquarii 



Published in — , 



Volume. Page. 



Monthly Notices of the 
Ivoyal Astronomical 
Society. 

ilonthl V Notices 

do' 

Observatory 

do ...; 

do 

do 

do 

Astronomical llegister.. 

do 

do 

do 

do 



XL 



XLI 

XI-l 

III 

III 

III 

III 

IV 

XVIII 

XVIII 

XVIII 

XVIII 

XIX 

Number. 



497-532 



4.M 
r>68 
408 
582 

18 
110 
28G 
113 
280 

41 



Measures of the companion of Sirius I A stronomische Nach- 

rich ten. 

The double star, 8.') Pegasi (iff 733) i do 

^Sagittarii do 

SEquulei (OS 535) do 

02 367 and 02 7 ! do 



2314 

2319, 2334 
2338 
2340 
2341 



The observations during the year comprise about 800 microinetrical 
measures of previously-known double stars, and the discovery of about 
70 new pairs, the most of which have been measured on three or four 
different nights each. A number of prominent naked-eye stars, some 
of which are mentioned in the contributions to astronomical periodicals, 
are included in the list of new stars. Careful series of measures of many 
of the most difficult of the binary systems have been made, and partic- 
ularly those requiring a large aperture from the extreme closeness of the 
components, or the faintness of the companion star. 



Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Cin chi )t a i I Ohscrva to rij {'!). 

Longitude from Washington, 29"'4C^85AV. 
Latitude, 39o & 20".o N. 
Director: ? 

Clinton, Oneida County, Xeic Yorl: 
Litchfiehl Observatory of ITa mil ton College. 

Longitude from Washington, G'" 34\0r> E. 
Latitude, 43° 3' 17" N. 



634 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORLES. 

Authority for longitude: Longitude telegraphically determined from 
Cambridge, Mass. Latitude by stars in prime vertical. 

Director: C. W. F. Peters. 

Founded in 1852, by subscription; completed in 1855; central edifice 
with wings east and west. Forty-two planetoids have been discov- 
ered here. 

Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: maker, W. Wurdemann, Washing- 
ton, D. C; aperture, 2i inches; magnifying power, — diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: one made by Spencer & Eaton j aper- 
ture of objective, 13J inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 80 to 
1600. {&) One by Steinheil Sons; aperture, 4 inches, {c") One by 
Hugo Schroder ; aperture, 5 inches. 

{d) Spectroscope: one direct vision 5 prisms; attached to the 4-inch 
Steinheil refractor. 

(/) Chronograph: by Wm. Bond & Son, Boston, Mass. 

{(j) ClocJcs: mean time; makers, Wm. Bond & Son. 

{h) Chronometer: sidereal; makers, Wm. Bond & Son 
Observations during the past year: 

(h) {b') Determination of time. 

(c) Observations of minor planets, comets, &c.; positions of fixed 
stars determined in zones; charting. 

{&) {c") Practicing by students of astronomy. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

Continuation of work of preceding years. 



Columbia, Boone Coimty, Missouri. 

The Laivs Observatory, University of the State of Missouri. 

Longitude from Washington, 1^ 1™ 6^ W. 

Latitude, 38° 5G' N. 

Authority for latitude a nd longitude: Joseph Ficklin and Thomas 

J. LOWRY. 

Director : Joseph Ficklin. 
Assistants : Thomas J. Lowry, 
Wm. a. Cauthorn. 

Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle : one; maker, Brunner, of Paris; diameter of 
circle, lOi inches ; divided to 5' ; read by two microscopes to 3" ; aperture 
of objective, 2-^g inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 
2-iy inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 50 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrtiments : one made by Henry Fitz, of New York; 
aperture of objective, 4-/g- inches ; magnifying powers of eye-i)ieces, 30 to 



RKrORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. (J35 

1'40: one made by :\Ierz & Sox, of IMunieli; aperture of ol.Jeeiive, 7.^ 
inches ; magnifying powers of eye-i)ieces, 80 to lOlS. This instrument 
is furnished with a micrometer, reflecting prisms, and sun-shades. It is 
driven by ck)ckworli;. The hour circle is 10 inches in dianu'ter. It is 
graduated on silver to snigle minutes, and reads by two verniers to 
•4 seconds of time. The declination circle is 15 inches iu diameter. It 
is graduated ou silver to 10 miiuites, and reads by two vermers to 10 
seconds of arc. The tinder was made by Al ntan Clakk & Sons, of Cam- 
bridgeport, Mass. It has an aperture of 1 ; inches and a focal length of 
17i^ inches. 

{(/) Clods: one mean tiuw; maker, lliGcs, of riiiladelphia : one 
sidereal; makers, GrecKt & Eurr, of Xew York. 

{i) MisccUaneoiis : The instrumental equipment includes also a sex- 
tant made by E. & G. W. Blunt, of New York; the arc is graduated 
ou silver, and reads by a vernier and microscope to 10 seconds. An 
alt-azimuth instrument, made by E. & (r. W. Blunt; it has an aper- 
ture of 2J inches; the circles are 12 inches in diameter, and graduated 
to 10 minutes ; the horizontal circle has four verniers with microscopes 
and the vertical circle two, aud ea<,*h reads to 10 seconds. A Transit 
theodolite, made by GREGa & Eupp, of New York. 
Observations during the past year: 

{{() The meridian circle has been used for time observations only. 

(c) ((?') Uquatorial: Observations on II artwig's comet; observations 
ou Swift's comet. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

1. The ordinary work of instruction to classes in astronomy. 

2. Observatious for time. 

3. Observatious ou such new planets aud comets as may be announced. 
During February and March, 1880, the old observatory building, Avhich 

stood a few feet west of the main university editice, was moved and en- 
larged. It now stands on the beautiful emiuence iu the campus near the 
chalybeate spring. The meridian line of each pier now passes between 
the university building and the president's mansion. In this position a 
good horizon is secured. In the old ])Osition the horizon was obstructed 
ou the north by the scientitic building, and on the east by the university 
building. 

The old dome was found to be too small for the equatorial recently pur- 
chased, and a brick addition was made at the east end for the accom- 
modation of this instrument. Tlie whole l»uildiug is (>,', feet long from 
east to west, and fronts east. 

The present greatly improved coiulitiou of the Observatory is due to 
the liberality of the president, Dr. S. S. Laws, who, for the advance- 
ment of astronomical science, has given to the university more than 
$2,000 in order to procure the telescope and put it in complete working 
order, and to move aud enlarge the observatory building. 



636 KEPOKTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Columbus, FranUin County, Ohio. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 23°^ 54^ W. 

Latitude, 40° 0' 1".5 i^. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Coast Survey for State-house 
dome, a couple of miles or so distant. 

Director : K. W. McFarland. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Alv an Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 5 inches (nearly completed). 

{(j) Clock: mean time; makers, Parkinson & Frodsham. 



Dubuque, loica. 
Dubuque Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 54™ 27s.01 W. 

Latitude, 42° 29' 38" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Boundary line between the 
States of Illinois and Wisconsin, projected through tbe city of Dubuque; 
and telegraphic record of star transits at Ann Arbor and Dubuque. 

Director : AsA Horr, M. D. — Under the supervision of Prof. J. C. 
AYatson, in 1805. 

Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: maker, Wm. Wijrdem Ann, Wash- 
ington, D. C. Aperture, IJ inches; magnifying power suflBcient to note 
time by stars of the 10th magnitude. Finding circle, 4^ inches diam- 
eter, reading by verniers and lenses to half a minute of arc. The pier 
extends 17 feet into the ground, through clay to gravel; it is 7 feet 6 
inches diameter at base, 3 feet at top, which is 4 feet above the surface ; 
is surrounded by a brick wall, 8 inches from the stone shaft, the space 
between (at the surface of the ground) being stufied with oakum. The 
Y's rest on thin brass supports on the top of stone j)illars, instead of the 
iron frame which acme with the instrument. 

{g) GlocJc: mean time; makers, Howard »fc Co., Boston. Tower 
clock, reliable to less than a second a day through all extremes of tem- 
perature. 

(h) Chronometer : meantiuie; maker, K. Zimmerman, Liverpool, Eng- 
land. 

Worh: The transit instrument was erected, and has been used almost 
exclusively for the determination of local time. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL Or.SKRVATORllIS. Go7 

Elizaeetii, Cnion County, Xcic Jersey. 
Ohncrvatory. 

Longitude Iroiu AVasliiuiiton, 11'" L'2M* H. 

Latitude, 40o 40' ID" X. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Lnitod States Coast Siu\cy. 

Director : CiiAKLES W. 1'lykk. 
Instruments : 

(&) 2feri(Uan transit infitrnment : makers, John Bliss & Sons, New 
York ; aperture, 1 incli ; magnifying i)ower, 10 dianu^ters. 

(c) Equatoricd instrument : maker, Henry G. Fitz ; aperture of ob- 
jective, (j\ inches. ]S'ine eye-pieces, from 50 to 030. 



roRDHA3i, ycic York. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12"' 40^.17 E. 

Latitude, 40° 52' 3L".3 ^\ 

Latitude and longitude deduced from Coast Survey maj) of 1803 and 
American Ephemeris 1879, assuming the latitude and longitude of New 
York, given iu the Ei)hemeris, to hv the latitude and longitude of the 
City ILill. 

Director : Willia:\i 3Ieikleiiam. 

Instruments : 

((') Eiiuatorial itistriiineut : maker, rJoUNliYKNE, ot Xew York; aper- 
ture of objective, 4i% inches ; focal distance, 05 inches ; magnifying pow- 
ers of eye-pieces, 20, 30, 45, 00, 80, 150, 250, 300, 350, and 450 ; also an 
amplifier which doubles each of these powers when used. Attached to 
the telescope is a finder of \h inches aperture, magnifying 20 diameters. 
Right ascension circle divided to read to 4 seconds of time; declination 
circle divided to read to 1' of arc. liotli circles divided on silver and 
read by microscropes attached thereto. J )ri\ ing cloek. 

{d) Spectroscope : one. 

{<)) Clock: mean time; maker, Seiii Tuomas, Sons & Co. 

(/) Miscellaneous : Filar micrometer; divided on siher to measure ,V' 
of arc in distance, and 0' in position, with suitable eye-pieces and illu- 
minating apparatus. 

Fort Dodge, ^Y€hster County, Toica. 

Longitude from Washington, 1" 8'".5 W. 

Latitude, 42° 30' X. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : F. IIess. 



638 KEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Dir6)tor : F. Hess. 
Assistant : Mrs. P. B. Hess. 

Instruments : 

[h) Meridian transit instrument: makers, J. Brown & Son, New 
York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifyiu;:^ power, lOi diameters, with hori- 
zontal and verti(3al circle, each reading to 1. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: aperture of objective, 21 inches; for ob- 
servations of the sun, aperture employed, 2g inches; magnifying power 
ordinarily employed, 50 diameters. 

[g) CIoclc: mean time; mi-ker, G. M. Wheeler, Elgin, 111. 

(i) Miscellaneous : one Trougiiton sextant and artihcial horizon. 
Observations during the past year (from January 1, 1880, 
to January 1, 1881) : 

No change in the personnel nor addition to the scant equipment of 
this station, which can hardly be called an observatory, has been made 
since last report. 

Sun-spot observations have been continued throughout the past year, 
and many spots have been recorded. The new variable star r Cephei has 
been observed a few times, and the space between ^3 Polaris and e Gas- 
siopeice was frequently searched for other variables. In the course of 
hap-hazard searches for comets, two nebula3 were found, which may pos- 
sibly be variable, since they are not given on charts and lists containing 
much fainter ones not visible at all with my highest magnifying i^ower 
of 50 times. One of these nebuliE is located in apj)roximate R. A. 21'^ 
21"' Dec. + 11° 50', the other in Pv. A. 16'' 15™ Dec. — 1° 22', as esti- 
mated by the eye (unaided by position circles) from neighboring stars. 

Preparations had been made to observe the occultation of the planet 
Mars occurring here in the afternoon of March 17, but that day having 
been cloudy here, the observation could not be made. On the 10th of 
March at 4^^ 20"" p. m., after having found that planet with his small 
transit, and knowing its exact position, viz : Az. S. 60° E., Alt. 57° 18', 
the director, his wife, and two of his children could distinctly see it with 
the naked eye in broad daylight. 

Many meteors and several extensive zodiacal lights and two very fine 
auroral displays have been recorded. 

During December, 1880, and January, 1881, many extraordinary 
parhelia^ and lunar halos, and on several occasions similar phenomena 
produced by the planet Venus, also have been observed here. 

Nothing beyond short notices in our local newspai)ers and an occasional 
article in the Fort Dodge Messenger on current astronomical events of 
general interest has been published by me during the past year. 

Tlie work laid out for the present year consists in a continuation of 
the former miscellaneous observations and the special observations of 
the local times of the following phenomena: 

1. Beginning of the partial eclipse of the sun, IMay 27, 1881. 

2. The various phases of the total eclipse of the moon, June 11, in- 



K£PORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSKRVATOKIKS. G39 

eluding the occultations of b Opliiuclii by the partially-eclipsed moon, 
and of (f Ophiuchi by the totally-eclipsed moon. 

3. The first and second contacts at ingress of the transit of Mercury, 
lNrovem"ber 7. 

4. Close approaches of planets to prominent stars. 



Georgetown, District of Cohnnhia. 
Ohservatonj of Georgetown College. 



Longitude from Washington, GM-* W. 
Latitude, 38° 54' 26".2 :^f. 
Director: (?) 



Glasgow, Howard County, Missonri. 
Morrison Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 1^ 3-" 5^93 W. 

Latitude, 39° 10' 16".75N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Longitude, exchange of clock 
signals with the Naval Observatory in June and July last, 5 nights. 
Latitude, from circumpolar stars observed on meridian circle. 

Director: C. W. Pritchett. 

Assistants: 1. H. S. Pritchett, in charge of meridian circle. 
2. C. W. Pritchett, jr. 

INSTRUjNIENTS : 

(a)31eridian circle: one; makers, Troughton & Snois; diameter 
of circles, 24 inches ; divided to 5' ; read by 4 microscopes to 1" ; aperture 
of objective, 6 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 
4 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 200 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture 
of objective, 12i inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, oi) to 1-00. 

(/) Chronograph: one. 

(a) CiocA;: sidereal; maker, CHARLES FRODSHAM, London. 

//) Chronometer : sidereal; maker, T. S. & J'. D- Kegus, ^ew loilc 
\i) Miscellcmeous: Alt-azimuth, by L. P. Casella, Loudon; comet- 
seeker, by ALVAN Clark & Sons. 

Observations during the past year (from January 1, 1880, 

to January 1, 1881) : f,-^ ^nri- de- 

(a) Observations for time; comparison stars; systematic Mork de 

'TwJrObtvations of double stars; micrometric measures of pairs 
spicillly needing observations; observations of planets and comets. 



G40 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(<) Meteorological observations made three times each day. A time- 
ball is dropped daily at Kansas City, 105 miles west of the observatory, 
at mean noon of Kausas City. Clock signals are also sent to the Union 
Depot, Kansas City, daily at 4 p. m. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

1. Continuation of the double-star measures. 

2. Continuation of the observations of planets and comets. 

3. Such meridian work as our time may allow and our wants may 
require. 

Principal publications of the observatory: 
C. W. Pritchett: Ked spot on Jupiter; published in Monthly 

]S'otices. 

C. W. Pritchett: Method of observation of red spot on Jupiter; 

published in Astr. ^ach. 
H. S. Pritchett : Discussion of measures of diameters of Mars; 

published in Astr. Nach. 

H. S. Pritchett: Discussion of observ^ation on red spot on Jupiter; 

l)ublished in Proc. Am. Assoc. 
H. S. Pritchett: Observations comet {d); published in Astr. ISTach^ 
H. S. Pritchett: Observations comet (e) ; published in Astr. I^ach.. 



Hanover, Grafton Counti/, JS^civ Hampshire. 

ShatfucJc ObHcrvatory. 

Longitude fiom Washington, 19'" 3^5G E. 

Latitude, 43° 42' 15".2 ^t. 

Authority for latitude and longitude. Prof, C. A. Young-. 

Directors : C. A. YouNG, 1853 ; 

Charles F. Emerson, A. M., 1878. 
Assistants : 1. George Otis Mitchell ; 

2. Dana Chase Barber ; 

3. Sidney Bates Cady. 

Founded in 1853, through the liberality of G. Shattuck. Consists 
of a west rotunda and three additions. It has double brick walls and 
an air-chamber with a space of six iuches (0™.15) between the walls. 
Instruments : 

(«) Meridian circle : makers, Troughton & Simms ; diameter of 
circle, 30 inches ; divided to 5' ; read by reading microscopes to V, and 
micrometers to single seconds; aperture of objective, 4 inches; mag- 
nifying power ordinarily employed, 120 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aper- 
ture of objective, 9.25 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 100 to^ 
1200, 20 in number. 



EErORTS OF ASTRO:,()MICAL OUSERVATniMKS. (\\\ 

{(1) SjU'ctroscopcs : hn<^v 9-prisin ("lauk spectroscope: seven piisin, 
double acting (equivalent to L'J prisms), fitting eciuatoiial nientioneci 
above. 

(/) Chronograpli : Bond's spring governor. 

{(j) Gloclis: one mean tinu- makers, U'J zschneidek c^- 1-^haten- 
HOPER, connected with cljronograph : one sidereal; makers, I'tz- 
SCHNEIDER & Mahler, of Munich, connected with chronograpli. 

(?) Miscellaneous : Comet seeker, aperture 3.G inches, mounted on 
large tripod; small portable telescope, a])erture 3 inches ; zenith sector, 
loaned by Coast Survey, aperture 4 inches ; full set of common metttoro- 
logieal apparatus, including a recording barometer; sextant by Haudy. 
of London. 

Observations during '^uk past year : 

(a) For time and latitude. 

{d) Class illustration on reversal of lines, and tor promineiu'cs. 

{i) Meteorological observations 3 times per day; sun-spot observa- 
tions since September 1, 1879. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

Similar work, with special attention to sun spots, prominence, &c., 
and spectroscopic observations. 



Hastings, Westchester County, Xeu- Yorl: 

» 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12'" 42«.7 E. 

Latitude, 40° 59' 25" is\ 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Coast Survey. 

Director : Henry Draper. 

Assistant: A. Hofbaijer. 

Instruments : 

(&) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Stackpole & Brother: 
aperture, 2 inches; magnifying power, 45 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial imtruments : one reHector, 28 inches aperture, made 
by Henry Draper; (c') one refractor, 11 inches aperture, by Alvan 
Clark & Sons, with photographic corrector. 

{d) Spectroscopes: 1 diffraction, 1 stellar photographic, 1 automatic, 

&c. 

(/) Chronograph : one made by Henry Draper. 

{(j) Clock: one mean time; maker, Howard. 

(/() Chronometers: one mean time; maker, iS^EGUS: one sidereal: 
maker, Kegus. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Altitude and azimuth rellector of 15J inches aper- 
ture. 

S. Mis. 31 41 



642 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Observations during the past year (from January to 
December) : 
(c) Stellar spectrum photographs, with 28-mch reflector of a Lyrce. a 
Aquilw, a Bootis, a Scorpionis, Gapclla., Jupiter, Mars, &c. 

(o) (c') Photographs of the nebula in Orion, with 11 -inch photographic 
telescope, the first ever taken, and requiring an exi^osure of 51 minutes. 
Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Continuation of the above, with a series of experiments in physics as 
bearing on astronomy, in the new astro-physical laboratory in New York f 
the latter experiments especially directed to the presence of the non- 
metals in the sun The town laboratory is furnished with a siderostat 
with 9i-inch mirror, a gas engine of 4-horse power, 4 dynamo-electric 
machines, induction coils and spectroscopes, &c., suitable for the 
research. 



Haverford College, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. 
Haverford College Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 6" 59^33 E. 

Latitude, 40° 0' 36".5 N. 

(Triangulations from United States Coast Survey stations give : 

Longitude, 5^^ V 11".62 ; latitude, 40° V 49".73.) 

Director : ISAAC Sharpless. 

Assistant : WiLLiAM Bishop. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: one; diameter of circles, 26 inches; divided to 
15' ; read by 4 microscopes to 2"; aperture of objective, 4 inches 

[c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Henry Fitz, re-worked by Clark ; 
aperture of objective, 8^ inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, CO 
to 800. 

(/) Chronograph : Bond's magnetic. 

[g) Clovlcs : one sidereal ; maker, Lukens : one sidereal ; maker. Har- 
per ; mercurial compensation. 

(/) Zenith instrument : aperture, 2| inches : rejuvenated by Fauth 
& Co., and to be set up as soon as addition is built to observatory, to 
determine our latitude. 

Observations during the past year (from 9 mo., 1st, 1880, to 
3 mo., 1st, 1881) : 

{a) Time observations. 

{c) {&) Phenomena of Jupiter's satellites ; occultations by moon; 
double-star measures. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881-'82) : 

Continuation of the abo^'e. 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. G43 

Hudson, St(mmlt Count)!, Ohio. 
Iludson Ohscrratory. 

Long'itiule from Washington, 17™ 32^0() AV. 

Latitude, 41° 14' 4.2". (i N. 

Autliority for latitude and longitude : Professor Elias Loo:mis. LI.. I >. 

Director^ Charles J. Smith. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: one; maker, Sim^nis, of London; diainctcr of 
circles, 18 inclies; divided to 5'; read by 3 microscopes to 1"; aix-rtuic 
of objective, 3 inches. 

Equatorial instrument : one; maker, Simms ; aperture of objective, 1 
inches ; magnifying- powers of eye-pieces, 50, 100, 1.50, 2.50, 3.50. 

Cloclc: sidereal; maker, Molineux; mercurial pendulum. 
Observations during the past year : 

No systemati<; course of observations pursued. Instruments used 
only for purposes of instruction. 



Iowa City, Johnson County, Iowa. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude ft'om Washington, 57™ 52'^ W. 
Latitude, 41° 39'.8 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Observations made at the 
. observatory during the past eleven years. 
Director : 0. W. Irish. 
Assistants : Mrs. C. W. Irish ; 

Miss Lizzie Irish ; 

Miss Ruth Irish; 

Dr. C. M. Hobby. 

Instruments : 

(&) Meridian transit instrument: a small one made by the director 
himself; aperture, one inch; magnifying power, 11 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instriment : maker. Chevalier, Paris; aperture of 
objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 25 to 300. 

( f) Chronograph : a Morse register. 

(g) Cloch: one mean time; beating three-quarter seconds: of German 

make. 

Work proposed: 
Observation of the coming transit of Mercury, if business occupa- 
tions permit. 



644 EEPOKTS OF ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATOEIES. 

Lawrence, Douglas County, Kansas. 

Observatory connected with Kansas State University. 

Longitude from Washington, 1^ 12°^ 47^9 W. 
Latitude, 38° 5V 15" K. 

Autliority for latitude and longitude : Fred. W. Bardwell, late 
professor of astronomy, Kansas State University. 
Director : H. S. S. Smith. 

Instruiments : 
(b) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Stackpole Bros.; aper- 
ture, 2^ inches. 

(g) Clod's : one mean time ; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston 
(medium): one sidereal; maker, Brockbanks, London (old). 

{h) Chronometer : sidereal ; makers, T. S. & J. D. Negus, New York 
(good). 

(i) Miscellaneous: Sextant, by Gambey ; comet-seeker, G-iuch object 
glass. 

Observations during the past tear: 
(b) {h') Time. 
(i) Instruction. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Time observations and instruction. 



LiNWOOD, Hamilton County, Ohio. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Situated about one mile E. by S. from Cincinnati Observatory. 
Director: E. H. McClure. 

Instrusients : 
(e) One equatorial silvered glass ISTewtonian reflector. Diameter of 
the concave reflecting objective, 5i inches; magnifying powers of the eye- 
pieces, GO, 100, and 200 diameters. The mirror, tube, and mounting all 
constructed by Mr. McClure himself. 

Observations during the past year (from February 8 to 
November 30, 1880) : 
(c) Sun-spots, Faculte, Jupiter, Saturn, &c. Special attention given 
to Jui)iter, of which a few rough sketches were made. 
Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Same as above ; will also observe the transit of Mercury. Will at- 
tempt to make a mirror of larger aperture, if the time can be spared 
from regular avocations. 



EEPORTS OP ASTRONOMICAL ORSKRVATOlUi: S. G45 

Madison, Daiie County, M'hcomln. 
The Washburn Ob.servatory. 

Longitude from WasUingtoii, 49'" 2o«.8 W, 

Latitude, 43^ 4' 3G".7 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : A pier of the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, about 500 leet from the observatory, has 
been connected by a triangulation with the transit-room, and (he posi- 
tion given refers to the center of the transit circle. 

Director : Edward S. Holden , 

Assistants: S. W. Burn ham ; 
G. C. CoiiSTOCK ; 

F. W. WlNKLEY. 

The main Observatory consists of a dome for the equatorial, wliich is 
mounted, of a transit-room now ready for the Eepsold circle, and of a 
director's room. A library and additional rooms are now building, as 
an eastwing to the main building. A small student's observatory, built 
by Professor Watson, contains a transit room for the Fauth transit, and 
a dome large enough for an S-inch equatorial. The Watson Solar Ob- 
servatory is still unfinished. The building will ])robal)ly bo finished 
during the year. 

INSTRUjVIENTS : 

The following will be ordered in 1881 : 

(a) A meridian circle: maker, IIetsold & Brother, ITamburg; diam- 
eter of circles, about 30 inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to 
1". Aperture of objective, 4.8 inches; for observations of the sun, a[)er- 
ture emplojed, — inches ; magnifying power ordinarily empU^yed, — 
diameters. 

The following instruments have been ordered : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Fautii & Co., Washing- 
ton; aperture, 3 inches ; magnifying power, (JO and llM) diameters. Tliis 
will have two 12-inch circles divided on the edges: one circle to 10", 
the other for setting only. The fine circle has a level for latitude. 

{c) Equatorial inntrument: makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; ajjcr- 
ture of objective, 15.5 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 145 to 
1200. 

(/) Chronof/raph: a chronograph by Fautii ^S: Co., with a conical 
pendulum, is provided. 

{(j) Clocks : one mean time; makers, Setii TnoMAS Clock Comi'A.n v : 
one sidereal ; maker, Honwu, of Amsterdam. 

{h) Chronometers : one sidereal, maker. Bliss, Xo. 278G; one sidereal 
break-circuit, Bliss, No. 2791. 

Observations during the past year (from .lanuary, l.sso, to 
January, 1881): 

(c) A coast survey transit (since renu)ved) was used in tlie i)rinie ver- 



(>46 EEPOETS OF ASTEOXOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

tical on one night by Mr. Comstock, and the latitude of a pier 40 
feet north of the transit circle piers was found to be + 43'=' 4' 37". 77 ± 
0".61. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 
The equatorial, with Messrs. Holden & Burnham as observers, will 
begin a series of zone observations on the plan of Herschel's sweeps. 
The 3-inch transit will be used by Mr. Comstock for time observations, 
and Polaris and the Sun will be observed at every culmination with 
time stars. ' 

Additional information : 
It is hoped to commence the printing of the publications of the Wash- 
burn Observatory during the year. No. 1 will be a description of the 
Observatory and its history up to January 1, 1881, together with the 
Eeduction Tables i)repared by the late director, Professor Watson. 
No. II will contain Burnham's General Catalogue of Double Stars. No. 
I of the Contributions has already been printed, and contains a list of 
new nebulie and double stars. 



Mount Hamilton, Santa Clara Coimty, California. 
Licli Astronomical Department of the University of California. 

Longitude from Washington, 2^ 58°^ 14^6 W. 

Latitude, 37^ 2P 3" N. 

Director : Not yet appointed. 
Instruments : 

In process of construction. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

Erection of small Observatory to accommodate the Draper 12-iiich 
equatorial (Clark & Sons) and time instruments (Fauth). These are 
to be set up by Professors E. S. Holden and S. W. Burnham in Octo- 
ber, and used to observe the transit of Mercury. 
Additional information : 

From the report made to the trustees of the James LicJc Trust, by 
Prof. S. W. Burnham, the following information is gathered respecting 
the situation and elevation of Mount Hamilton, upon which the Lick 
Observatory is to be erected: 

"The city of San Jose, the nearest point of railroad connection fro*m 
Mount Hamilton, is 50 miles south of San Francisco. Mount Hamilton, 
by the highway, is 20 miles from San Jose, nearly east, and is reached 
by a good road constructed two or three years since by the county of 
Santa Clara. In order to keep the grade within the limit of six feet in 
one hundred, the last i)ortion of the road is carried up the ridges of the 
mountain by a circuitous route. The distance between the observatory 
and San Jose, in an airline, is only 13 miles. 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSKRVATOHIHS. 047 

"The approximate geographical of the Observatory I'cak is: \.nurr\. 
tilde, 121° 30' 40" W. ; latitude, 37° 21' 3" N. 

"The elevation of this point is 4,250 feet above the level of the sea. 
The north peak, which is about three-fourths of a mile distant, is 1 Ki 
feet higher. There is a ridge between, along which is a good trail eou- 
nectiug the two peaks. Hie sides of the mountain, in most directions, 
are very steep, and form an acute angle at the summit. The view from 
the i)eaks is unobstructed in every direction, there being no higher 
ground within a radius of 100 miles. In this connection the report of 
Messrs. Herrmann Bros., the engineers who surveyed the road, will be 
of interest : 

" 'The scope of the horizon i'rom .Mount Ilamilton takes in nnne ground, 
according to Professor Whitney's judgment, tuan almost any similar 
peak in the Uuiteu States, there being no obstru(;tion to the view from 
any quarter. It is remarkably free from fogs and clouds, as we had 
ample occasion to observe during our last winter's stay on the mountain 
when locating the road. The bearings of the most notable objects are 
as follows, the distances being taken, when out of our county, from oui 
most reliable maps : 

Mount Loma Prieta S. 35° 5' W., IDA miles. 

Mount Thayer S. oio IS' W., 19:| " 

Mount Poucher S. 38° 35' W., (5 " 

Block Mountain 8.87° W., 27i " 

Mount Tamalpais N. 51° 20' W., G(> '• 

Mission Peak X. 47° 55' W., 10 " 

MountStory Is\ 25o 45' W., lOj " 

Mount Diablo. N. 21o 45' W., 30i " 

Mount Sautana S. 37° E., 35 " 

Murphy's Peak S. 0° 5' W.,15 '• 

" 'None of these points reach the altitude of :\Iount Hamilton. Ol 
those within a radius of 20 miles the Loma Prieta reaches 3.800 feet; 
Thayer 3,550, and Block Mountain 2,800. All the rest are between 
1,500 and 2,500 feet. Of the further peaks Mount Diablo is 3,850.' '* 



Mount Lookout, Hamilton County, Ohio. 
Cincinnati Observa to nj. 

Longitude from Washington, 29- 29^33 W. 

Latitude, 39o 8' 20" i^. 

Authority .for longitude: Washington Observations for 18, ,, Appen- 
dix IV. For latitude: preliminary reduction of unpul)lislie(l observa- 
tions. 



G48 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Directors: O. M. Mitchel, 1842; 
, H. TwiTCHEL, 1853 ; 
' W. DAVIS, 1854 ; 
G. Abbe, 1859 ; 
Ormond Stone, 1875. 
Assistant: Herbert A. Howe. 
Students : H. Y. Egbert, 

A. S. Flint. 
Founded in 1842 by a society established for tlie purpose. The ground 
was donated by Nicholas Longworth. A new observatory was 
erected in 1870. It owns an equatorial by Merz and Mahler, with 
an ajierture of 11.8 inches=0™.30. 
Instruments : 
{h) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Bitff and Berger; aper- 
ture, 3 inches ,• magnifying ]30wer, 100 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : one made by Utzschneider andFRAUEN- 
HOFER; finished by Merz & Mahler; object-glass re-figured by Al- 
VAN Clark «& Sons; aperture of objective, 11^ inches; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, 90 to 1400. (c') One by Alvan Clark & Sons ; 
aperture, 4 inches; magnifying powers, 15 to 250. 
(/) Chronograph: Bond. 

[<j) Clods: two mean time; makers, Egbert Molyneux, James 
Ritchie & Son. 
(/i) CJironomcter : sidereal; makers, William Bond & Son. 
{i} Miscellaneous: Magnetic theodolite ; maker, Gambey. Sextant; 
makers, Stackpole & Brother. Inclinometer, time-ball, telegraj^hic 
ai)paratus, &c. 

Observations during the past year (from September 1, 
1879, to September 1, 1880) : 
{h) Determination of time and latitude. 

(c) Micrometrical measurements of double stars. Observations of sun- 
spots. Determinations of positions of comets Hartwig and Pechiile. 
(c') Approximate determinations of positions of stars south of 23"^ of 
south declination. (Continuation Argelander's Durchmusterung.) 
Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Continuation of Durchmusterung south of 23° of south declination. 
Principal publications of the observatory during the 
YEAR 1880: 
Ormond Stone: Micrometrical measurements of 1,054 double stars, 
vol. V, Publications of Cincinnati Observatory. 



Nashville, Davidson County, Tennessee. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 38" 56^ W. 
Latitude, 30© 10' 01" N. 



KEPOKTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSEKVATulvMKS. {14\} 

Authoiity lor latitude and lon-itude, United States Coa.st Survey. 
Bircctof : E. E. Baijnahd. 

rxSTliUMEN'J'S: 

(c) Equatorial instrument: a simple equatorial; aperture of ohjeet- 
ive, 5 iucUes ; magnifying- i)owers of eye-pieces, o'2 to .^20. (c') A small 
2i iuclies altazimuth telescope with good rack-work; all the eyepieces 
of large telescope lit it. 

(i) Miscellaneous : In use also a small instrument. The base of this 
instrument is divided to degrees and read by vernier to 3' of arc. An 
upright pillar carries a semi-circle of altitude ; this is divided to degrees 
and read to 3' of arc by a vernier. Attached to the semi-circle of alti- 
tude is an hour-circle divided to 4"^ of time and read to single minutes 
by vernier. Upon the hour-circle rests a semi-circle of dechnation 
divided to degrees and read to 3' of arc by vernier. On the base are two 
levels, the instrument being leveled by three adjusting screws, which 
also serve as feet. The declination semi-circle carries a very small tel- 
escope about .4 inch diameter of objective. The telesco})e has a diago- 
nal eye-piece with metal rellector and single lenses and vertical and 
horizontal hairs. The instruifient was made by W. & S. Jones, London. 
It is used for identifying stars in comet observations by setting the alti- 
tude semi-circle for the latitude, thereby converting the instrument into 
au equatorial. 

Observations during the past year : 

(c) {c') Observations of the planets and comets. 
Work proposed for the coming year: 

Continuation of the work of last year. 

PRINCIP.VL publications OP THE OBSERVATORY DURING THE 
YEAR : 

The only publications have been : Letters to the English Mechanic 
(London), Science (of Xew York), &c. 
Additional information : 

Observations have been from June, 1880, to January, 1881. These 
observations have consisted cliietly in watching the changes on Jupiter ; 
getting- positions of comets, and making drawings of Saturn. From 
July 11 to January 7 about fifty transits of the great red si)ot on Jupiter 
recorded and some seventy-five sketches and drawings made of the con- 
figuration of his surface. Transits of a number of spots, &c., on ,1 upiter 
also observed. One black transit of Satellite III and four dark (brown- 
ish) transirs of Satellite 1 also noted. 

A very good set of drawings made of the remarkable black spots 
which broke out just north of Jupiter's great e(piatorial band, in the 
iatter part of October (1880). These drawings show the remarkable 
transformations of these spots until their finally encircling the planet 
with a beautiful scolloped belt. _ 

The comets of which positions have been obtained are Swiits (the 
first position of this comet on October 21), and Pechiile's. 



G50 EEPOETS OF ASTEONOMICAL OBSEKVATOEIES. 

New Haven, New Haven County, Connecticut. 
Winchester Observatory of Yale College. 

Longitude -from Washiugton, O'^ 16°^ SOM E. 

Latitude, 41° 18' 3C".5 N. 

Authority for latitude: Zenith-telescope observations in 1857-'58. 
See Am. Jour, of Sci., vol. 30, ]). 52. Second series. (Coast Survey lati- 
tude 41°^ 18' 40".67.) 

Authority for longitude : United States Coast Survey. 

President of hoard of managers : C. S. Lyman. 

Astronomer in charge of horological bureau : Dr. Leonard Waldo. 

Assistant astronomer : William Beebee. 

Founded in 1830. Several instruments were presented by Messrs. 
Sheldon and W. Hillhouse. 

Directors; E. LooMis, 1831 ; 

D. Olmstead, 1836 ; 
C. S. Lyman, 1847. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle : makers, Ertel & Sons, 1845. Formerly the 
property of the U. S. Naval Observatory. Altered by William J. 
Young, 1855, and regraduated 1876. Diameter of circles, 40 inches; 
divided to 2' ; read by six microscopes to 1" ; aperture of objective, 3.8 
inches; for observations of the sun, aperture emi)loyed, 1.7 inches; 
magnifying power ordinarily employed, 190 diameters ; focal length, 
58.2 inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : one made by C. S. Lyman, of 36-inch 
focal length ; aperture, 2.6 inches ; magnifying power, 185 diameters. 
Circle, 12 inches, reading to 10" by verniers; it has declination microm- 
eter and fine level, for use as zenith telescope, made in 1852-'53 : one 
by T«ouGHTON & SiMJVis, London ; aperture, 3.99 inches ; magnifying 
power, 150-200 diameters; focal length, 5.108 feet, {b') Combined 
transit and zenith telescope, of 36-inch focal length ; aperture, 2.6 inches; 
power, 185 diameters; 12-inch circle, reading to 10" by verniers; decli- 
nation micrometer and sensitive level for latitude work ; made in 1852-'56 : 
object-glass by Fitz, design and mounting by C. S. Lyman. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 9 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 40, 80, 140, 
200, 280, 450, 620. (c') Portable 4§-inch refractor by Messrs. Clark «fe 
Sons. 

{d) Spectroscope: by A. Clark & Sons, of 7 prisms twice traversed. 

(/) Chronographs : one by A. Clark & Sons, with conical pendulum 
governor; another by William Bond & Son, Boston, with Bond's 
spring governor. 

(g) ClocJcs: one mean time; made by E. Howard & Co., Boston; 
one by William Hillhouse, New Haven : one sidereal; by William 
Bond & Son, Boston; one by Appleton, London; one by E. How- 
ard & Co. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 0')! 

(/*) Chronometers : ouc pocket chronometer, lucaii tiinc; liy .loiiNsoN, 
London: one sidereal; by Poole, London, inii>ro\\'d hy Neiius, New- 
York. 

{i) MiHcellaneous : Two bifilaV position-micrometers, one by Dollond, 
the other by Fauth & Co., Washington, D. C; a patent sextant and 
a patent retiecting circle, by Pistor & Martins, Berlin; repeating 
relays, sounders, &c., for time service. Yale Collegia has also in use a 
5-inch 10-foot refractor by Dollond; a sidereal clock and a L'O-inch 
transit instrument, in charge of Professor LooMis. 

The horological bureau is a department of the Winchester Observa- 
tory, organized in January, 1880, with a special ecpiipment of instru- 
ments for a regular and extended public time service. The standard 
time, by law of the State, is that of the meridian of the city hall, N«'w 
York, which is 4"^ 19^0 sloWof New Haven, and 12- 10^5 fast of Wash- 
ington. Another important work of the bureau is the testing of watches 
and chronometers in the interest of the watch manufacture, for which 
hot and cold closets and other special tacilities are provided. 

There is also connected with the Observatory a thermometrical bureau, 
in charo-e of Dr. Wai.do, for the verification of clinical and other ther- 
mometers. It is amply furnished with the best standards, apparatus ot 
comparison, and other tacilities for this work. About 1,000 tlunMuo.ne- 
ters have been tested in the last six months. 

A Eepsold & Sons, of Hambur^i^, are constructing for the Observa- 
tory a heliometer of 6 inches aperture and embodying the latest unprove- 
ments. It is to be finished during the year 1881. 

Observations during the past year (1880): 
(a) Besides the regular time-service and the thermometric work, a 
series of observations has been made, with interchange ol the observ- 
ers, for determining telegraphically the difference of longitude between 
Cambridge and New Haven, the observers being Prof. \MlliamA. 
EOGERS, of Cambridge, and Br. Waldo, of New Haven. ^^^ 
Work proposed for tue coming year (1881-'82): 
The regular time and thermometric service, and the erection ot a 
building for the heliometer, ^ith preparation for observing the approach- 
ing transit of Venus, and for other work ^vith this instrument. 



Nbwington, Hartfonl County, Connecticut. 
Frirate Ohserratory. 
Longitude from Washington, 21>" 25^ E. 

house, Coast Survey. 

Director: U. W. Edgecomb. 



652 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, A. Clark &c Sons; aperture of 
object] ve, 9.4 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, various up to 
2,000. 

{(j) Clock: Mean time; Swiss regulator, seconds. 
VI. Additional information: 

This Observatory^ consists of a small frame building, witli dome 12 
feet G inches diameter, upon the grounds of tbe owner, covering an 
equatorial telescope. The latter rests uj)on a granite pedestal, Aveigh- 
ing about 1,500 pounds. The mounting is by Young, of Philadelphia, 
and is of the best workmanship. The declination circle is 13 inches in 
diameter, reading by verniers to 10 seconds of arc. The hour circle is 
10 inches diameter, reading by verniers to 4 seconds of time. The 
graduations are upon silver. The object-glass, tube, and finder are by 
A. Clark «& Sons. The aperture of the object-glass is 9.4 inches, with 
a focal length of 121 inche.^^ , and is without doubt the finest specimen 
of the skill of Mr. Alvan Clark. Under the most rigid tests, its 
figure is found to approach very closely to absolute perfection. It is 
shown also by the vision it gives of the closest double stars and the 
faintest companions to bright stars hitherto discovered. Among the 
former, y"^ A^iclromedw, X Cassiopece^ and rj Coroncc in its present position 
may be mentioned, and of the latter class, the comi^anions to ;' Lyra', 
Z Aquillce, £ and p Hydrw, the star closely following the attendant to 
Regidus, and under very favorable circumstances the 2" companion to 
e Coronm. The instrument has been used for general observations of 
the stars, moon, and planets, other occupations preventing the owner 
from carrying on at present any more regular work. 



New Windsor, Mercer County^ Illinois. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 53™ 40^ W., approximately. 

Latitude, 41° 13' K, approximately. 

Authorities for latitude and longitude : Director's own observation, 
and from longitude of government arsenal at Eock Island, 111. 

Director: Edgar L. Larkin. 

Permanent Observatory, brick pier, and revolving dome. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: makers, Alvan Clark &, Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, G inches ; magnilying powers of eye-pieces, 27, GO, 130, 
250, 300, GOO, with prism and solar eye-piece. Two of the eye-pieces are 
GuNDLAcn's periscopic. 

{(j) Clock: sidereal; ordinary clock. 

{i) Miscellaneous: Planisphere, charts, maps, and catalogues, 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOUIKS. (ioS 

Observation's during the past yeak (from .lanuaiy .">, isso, 
wlieii telescope Wcas monuted, to February l'.;, issi ) : 
(c) AVith liij;li powers, doubles aud variables; also observations on 
planets and ou the sun, daily. 

Work proposed pop the comixo year (LS81): 
Variables, aud comet seeking; also, searching for nebuhe. 

Principal publications of the observatory durinc Tin: 
year : 

Edgar L. Larkin : IMotion. Published in Kansas City Peview, vol. 
iv, p. 177. 

Edgar L. Larkin : Meteor Notes. Published in Science Observer, 
Boston, Xo. 28, p. 27. 

Current newspaper articles. 



jSTew York, JSfcw Tori: 

Columbia College Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, IG"' 29M) E. 
Latitude, 41° 18' 3G".5 N. 
Director: ! 



Kew York, Neic TorTi. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12™ 15^47 E. 

Latitude, 4(P 43' 48".53 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: United States coast surveying 
party (1859), with zenith telescope upon 24 pairs of stars, and telegraphic 
communication with Washington and Cambridge. 

Director : L. M. Eutherfurd. 

Assistant : D. C. Chapman. 
Instrilments : 

{b) Meridian transit instrument: maker, Stackpole; aperture 3 
inches. Only used for time. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: makers, :\ressrs. Eutherfurd & Fitz; 
aperture of objective, 13 inches. The telescope has been employed 
mostly in photograi)hing the sun, moon, and groups of stars. 

(/) Chronograph: Morse. 

[g) Clock : sidereal ; maker, Dent. 



654 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

NoRTHFiELD, Rice County, Minnesota. 
■Carleton College Astronomical Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 1^^ 4™ 23^85 W. • 

Latitude, 44° 27' 40".77 ]^. 

Authority for latitude : zenith telescope observations of 40 pairs of 
stars reduced to apparent places from Safford's catalogue. 

Longitude depends on exchange of telegraphic signals between Coast 
Survey OfQce at Saint Paul and director at Northfield. 

Director: William W. Payne. 

Assistant: C. W. Beers. 

Completed in 1878. Attached to Carleton College central building, 
6 meters long, surmounted bj' a dome, with two wings, one used for 
meridian instruments,* the other for the library. 
Instruments : 

{h) Meridian transit instrument: makers, Messrs. Faittii & Co. ; ai^er- 
ture, o inches; magnifying powers, GO, 70, and 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : makers, Messrs. A. Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 8^^ inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50, 100, 
200, 400, 800. {&) Portable equatorial : maker, John Byrne of New 
York; aperture of objective 4,3 inches. 

(/) Chronograph : one, made by A. Clark & Sons. 

{g) ClocTis: one mean time; makers, Messrs. E. Howard & Co., No. 
19G: one sidereal; makers, Messrs. E. Howard & Co., No. 105. 

(/<) Chronometer: sidereal; makers, Messrs. Bond & Sons, No. 374. 

(i) Miscellaneous: The Observatory has been favored by the loan of a 
good zenith telescope for several months from Lieut. Edward jMaouire, 
chief engineer in the department, with headquarters at Saint Paul. The 
large equatorial is provided, with micrometer, with a full battery of eye- 
pieces. 

Observations during the past year : 

Class instructions and instrumental errors. 

{a) Transit used for time observations. Railroad time is given at 12 
o'clock, noon, to the Northwestern Telegraph Company for railroad com- 
panies of this and adjoining States. 

{h) Our time signal daily goes over 1,285 miles of wire. 

(c) (c') Micrometrical measures of double stars. Positions of comets 
and asteroids. 

(c') Small equatorial devoted to class instruction entirely. 

(?■) Determination of latitude and longitude of the Observatory. 
Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

1. Time observations. 

2. Other work essentially as given above. 

Additional information : 
Printed matter from the Observatory has consisted of articles for the 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL ORSl- RVATORIES. C)')b 

daily papers of Saint Paul, Minneapolis, and Chiea^^o. Tlic OLscrva 
toiy havino- no fuiuls for publieation purposes, eould do notliin-,' in this 
way thus iar. 



(Near) Oxford, La/ai/ctfr Covntu, Mississippi. 

Obscrratorii of l'itir( rsiti/ of Mississippi. 

Longitude from Wasliinjitou, 40'" .■),">\().) W. 

Latitude, 3P 22' 12".(U X. 

Authority for latitude and lonj;itU(le : R. 15. FuLTOX. 

Director : E. B. Fultox. 

The Observatory was erected in 187(1. 

IXSTRUMEXTS : 

{a) Altitucle-azimiith: makers, Lererours & Secretax; diameter of 
circles, 10 inches; divided to 10'; read by -4 microscopes to 10"; aper- 
ture of objective, li inches. 

{b) Meridian transit instnimenf: makers, T>. Pike & Soxs; ajjerture, 
2^ inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, ^Merz, of Munich; aperture of 
objective, 4^ inches; magnifying ])o\vers of eye-pieces, 1)0 to.">12 diameters. 

{(1) SpectroHcope : KiRCiiOFF's 4- prism table spec^troscope. 

{(j) ClocJc: mean time; makers, Ritchie & Soxs, Boston. 

(//) Chronometer: sidereal; makers, Willia:m Boxd & Sox, Boston. 
Work proposed for the comixg year (1881): 

Determination of variation of magnetic needle in various places in 
this State. 



Phelps, Ontario Coiintu. Xew York. 

Bed House Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington 12* W. 
Latitude, 42° 58' X. 
Director: William B. Brooks. 
Assistant : Mrs. Brooks. 

Instruments : 
{c) A silvered-glass reflecting telescope of 5 inches aperture and 50 
inches focal length, mounted as a Newtonian on alt-azimuth stand. A 
2-incli reflector, 36 inches focus. Both made by the director. 
(g) ClocJc: meantime; makers unknown; marine. 

Observations during the past year (from January 1, 1 >;.■>>(), 
to January 31, 1881) : 
{a) Sun-spots were observed with the 5-inch reflector on February 6, 
8, 9, 22, 24; March 18 and 31; April 7, 12, and 28 (very large group) ; 



65G REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

]\Iay 1, 3, 11 ; September 12, largest group for many years, equal to ^ of 
the sun's diameter ; October 3, 'and December 4. Drawings were made 
of tlie most remarkable spots. 

Hartwig's comet was observed on October 2, the evening of tlie day 
of announcement; also on October 3, 4, 5, C, 7, S, 9, and 10. On 3d 
instant it was in the same field with Alphecca. Swift's comet was 
observed November 5 and 26, December 4. Owing to dense clouds 
Pennule's or Pechiile's comet was not seen until December 31, when 
it was quickly picked up with 2-inch achromatic in E. A, 19^ 59™ 
X. Dec. 19° 23'. It was also seen January 1, 1881 ; January 2, 19, and 20. 

Preparations were made to observe the occultation of Mars, March 17, 
but clouds prevented ; also the partial eclipse of sun December 31, but 
observations were again frustrated by clouds. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

Mainly comet seeking; solar phenomena and the planets will also 
receive attention. 

Additional ikformatcon: 

Descriptive articles on Hartwig's, Swift's, and Peohl'le's comets of 
1880, also remarkable solar spots, have been published in one or more 
of the following papers : " Scientific American," " Science Observer," 
"Science," ''Eochester Democrat and Chronicle," " Geneva Courier," 
'' Phelps Citizen." 



Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

Central High- School Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 7°^ 33^G4 E. 
Latitude, 39° 57' 7".5 N. 
Director: f 



Poughkeepsie, Dutchess County, New YorJi. 

Vassar College Observatory. . 

Longitude from Washington, 12"" 38«.5 E. 
Latitude 41° 41' 18" N. 
Director : Maria Mitchell. 
Observatory built in 1878. 

Instru:ments : 

(a) Meridian circle: maker, YouNG, of Philadelphia ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 3| inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : object-glass by Clark ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 12J inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 200 to 600+ . 

(/) Chronograph: one. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSEIiVATOKIKS. GoT 

(g) ClocJc: one, sidereal; makers, Bond & Sox. 
(/<) One chronometer : meaatime; makers, Bliss & Creighto:^. 
(/) Miscellaneous : Small telo.st'0])es; one by Clark & Sons; aper 
ture, 3 inches. 

Observations during the past year (from ISSO to 1881) : 
(a) Observations for the time. 
(f) Observations on Satnrn. 
(«■) The snn is photographed on every fine day at noon. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
{a) Observations for time. 
{c') Observations on planets, especially Saturn. 
(/) Observations on sun-spots. 



Princeton, Xcic Jersey. 

Observatories of the College of Xew Jersey. 

Longitude from Washington, 9'" 34^54 E. 
Latitude, 40° 20' 57".8 N. 
Director : C. A. Young. 

The Halsted Observatory, which was built in 1870, but never 
equipped, is being put in order for the reception of the great equatorial 
of 23 inches in diameter. This magnificent instrument, which is pro- 
vided for by the liberal subscriptions of friends of the college, is in pro- 
cess of construction by the Clarks at Cambridgeport. The object-glass 
is comi)leted, and is a very fine one; the mounting is well under way, 
and unless something unexpected occurs the instrument will be in posi- 
tion before January^ 1, 1882. The telescope will be occupied at first 
mainly with stellar spectroscopy; and a spectroscope is being con- 
structed for it by Hilger, of London, under the kind supervision of 
Mr. Christie, of the Greenwich Observatory. 

The Observatory of the John C. Green School of Science, which 
was erected and provided with instruments in 1877, remains substan- 
tially unchanged. A new 3-inch transit, by Fauth was mounted in 
the west room in 1879, and the Aycrigg tiansit was transferred i)er- 
manently to the prime vertical. A reflecting circle by Pistor ^S: :\Iar- 
TiNS has also been added, and a full set of meteorological histruments. 

The principal employment of this Observatory and of Professor 
Young is in giving instruction in practical astronomy; a little scientitie 
work has, however, been accomplished. During the winter of 1878-79 a 
telegraphic connection with Washington was effected, and six nights' 
observations put the Princeton meridian circle 9™ 34^ 54 ± 0\02 east of 
the Observatory dome at Washington. During 1879 and 1880 five inde- 
pendent series of latitude determinations have been made by two dif- 
S. Mis. 31 42 



658 EEPOETS OF ASTKONOMICAL OBSEEVATOKIES, 

ferent observers, Mr. M. Mci^^eill and Mr. 'A. S. Flint, with tbree 
different instruments, the Kahler transit and the Fauth transit (used 
as zeuitli telescopes), and the prime vertical. The results agree re- 
markably well, all giving the latitude between 40° 20' 57".76 and 40° 20' 
57". 81, The final result is 40° 20' 57".79 ± 0". 04. In November, 1879, 
a series of micrometrical observations were made ux)on the planet Mars 
with the 0^-inch equatorial, for the purpose of fixing its i^olar compres- 
sion. The reduction of the observations gives 2\q for the value of this 
quantity: a result surprisingly accordant with that deduced theoreti- 
cally by Adams, on the supposition that the law of density of the planet 
is not very different from the earth's. Both satellites were readily seen 
with the instrument, and this fact, with many others, goes to show that 
the telescope, the object-glass of which it will be remembered has the 
Gaussian curves, is one of the best, if not the best, of its size in exist- 
ence. 

Occasional spectroscopic observations have been made; especially a 
minute examination of the 70 dark lines in the solar spectrum given by 
Angstrom and Thalen as belonging to the spectra of two or more 
metals in common ; indicating, according to Mr. Lockter's ideas, the 
existence of some common constituent in the metals concerned, and so 
tending to show them to be really non -elementary. The examination 
was made in the summer of 1881 with an apparatus of ur])recedented 
dispersive power, consisting of a Rutherfurd grating of 17,000 lines 
to the inch, and collimator and telescope of about 4 feet focus. As a 
result, 5G lines of the 70 were found to be distinctlj' double or multiple; 
7 were doubtful, generally because they could not be certainly iden- 
tified, and 7 api)eared to be single; 3 of the 7, however, while shown 
on the map as common to iron and some other metal, are not so given 
in Thalen's tables. On the whole, it is clear that the facts brought 
out do not favor Lockyer's hypothesis. 

One remarkable solar prominence was observed in October, 1881, 
which in an hour reached an elevation of 350,000 miles — the highest yet 
on record. 

The spectra of several comets have been observed, and some series of 
observations have been made upon their places which have been of use 
in computing their orbits. A few double-star measures have been 
taken; and observations were made upon the transit of Mercury in 
1878, the solar eclipse of last December, and sundry occultations. 

The solar eclipse of 1878 was observed at Denver by an expedition 
sent out from Princeton, under the direction of Professors Brackett 
and Young, and its results were duly published in the American Journal 
of Science. 

Besides the members of the college classes, several others have 
availed themselves, for a longer or shorter period, of the opportunities 
at Princeton for the study of practical astronomy. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OF.SEKVATOKTES. 050 

rROViDENCE, Providence Connti/, Iihodc Island. 

Seagrave Observatori/. 

Longitude Iroin Wasliiugton, 22™ ?>'i^.~)l E. 
Latitude, 41° 49' 4G".40 N. 

Authority for latitude and lougitude: United States Coast Survey 
and ourselves, F. E. Seagraye and Leonard ^YALDO. 
Director: V. E. Seagrave. 

Instru3*ients : 

(c) Equatorial instrument : one equatorial; makers, Alyan Clakk & 
Sons; aperture of objective, 8^ inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, 93, 121, 184, 311, 571; negatives, 518, 11(3, 230, 335, 375; positive 
eye-piecesr achromatic, 248. 

[d) Spectroscope: one by Broavning, Mhicli consists of 4 wliole ami 2 
half prisms of 00°; flint ghiss; gives a dispersive power of ten i)risuis 
by reflection. 

Chronometer: sidereal; maker, Victor Kullberg, London. 

Observations during the past year (from June 20, issn, to 
December 31, 1880) : 

1. Observations of 01 Cyfjni from June 20, 1880, to December 31, 1880, 
for the purpose of determining the amount of its proper motion. 

2. Observations of a few of Burnuam's double stars. 

3. A few observations of the position angles and distances of the 
satellites of Saturn. 

Work proposed for the co:virNG year (1881): 
It is proposed this year to select some star in the northern hemisphere 
(as near the pole as possible) that has a large proper motion, and select 
two or three smaller stars that are in the same field of vision, and meas- 
ure the distance and position angles of them from the large star, for tin- 
purpose of determining the amount of proper motion, and possibly its 
paralhix. 

Additional information: 
It is also intended to observe the satellites of Saturn during the next 
opposition, and measure the distances and position angles of the small 
stars next Mars during the opposition of December, 1881. 



Riverdale, Xew Tori: Cotinty, J\"eic York. 

Longitude from Washington — 

Latitude — , ^ ., z^, 4 „ 

Not yet determined, owing to the recent removal of the Observatory 

from Fordham to Biverdale. 
Director ; Wllliam JMeikleham. 



G(jO reports of astronomical observatories. 

Its'STRUMENTS: 

(c) Equatorial instrument : maker, John Byrne, of New York ; ap- 
erture of objective, 4r-^ iuclies; focal distance, 65 inclies; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, 20, 30, 45, GO, 80, 150, 250, 300, 350, and 450; also 
an amj)lifier, which doubles each of these powers when used. Attached 
to the telescope is a finder of 1^ inches aperture, magnifying 20 diame- 
ters. Eight ascension circle divided to read to 4 seconds of time; dec- 
lination circle divided to read to V of arc. Both circles divided on 
silver and read by microscopes attached thereto. Driving-clock. 

(d) Spectroscope: one. 

(r/) ClocTi: mean time; maker, Seth Thomas, Sons & Co. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Filar micrometer; divided on silver to measure 0".3 
of arc in distance and 6' in position, with suitable eye-pieces and illu- 
minating apparatus. 

Observations during the past year: 

No observations have been systematically made during the year ending 
January 1, 1881, owing to the removal of the observatory and the con- 
sequent confusion arising therefrom. 



Eochester, Monroe County, New YorTc. 
Warner Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 3™ 8^ W. 

Latitude, 43° 8' 11" K 

Authority, for latitude and longitude : Signal Service officer. 

Director: Lewis Swift. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Alvan Clark & Sons (con- 
structing); aperture of objective, 16 inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, from 45 to 2000. (c') Altitude-azimuth, 4J inches, by Fitz; 
powers from 25 to 432. Telescope 4^-inch refractor, originally by Fitz, 
but since last report the flint lens of the objective was unfortunately 
broken; it has been replaced by Alvan Clark & Sons. lis perform- 
ance, which was always good, appears to be rather better than before 
the accident. 

Observations during the past year: 
The work done during the past year has been a repetition of that for 
several years past, viz, comet seeking and observing those discovered 
by others. The nebulae observed and heretofore overlooked, which, 
however, are very few in number, have been also carefully recorded on 
star charts. This facilitates the prompt detection of a comet. Much 
caution, however, is necessary not to announce and especially not to 
cable the discovery of a comet where no motion has been detected. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 001 

The year 1880, and thus far in 1881, liave been remarkable as tlie 
most unfavorable for such work for many years jjast. 

On October 10-11, about niiduight, another new comet was discovered. 
Although no positive motion was detected in two hours' watching, from 
a strong suspicion that it was a comet, the discovery was telegrai)hed to 
four astronomers widely separated, in the hope that some one of theiu 
would be fortunate enough to have a clear sky, and be able to secure an 
early observation before the moon would interfere. Only one. Professor 
Boss, of the Dudley Ob.servatory, succeeded in finding it, and fortunately 
he obtained the first position of it that could be used in com])uting its 
orbit. Ou the evening of the 11th, as soon as twilight had disappeared 
and in presence of a half moon, it was re-observed and immediately 
cabled, but owing to mooidight it was not discovered in Europe until 
October 25. The comet though large, was very fahit, and proved 
to be identical with comet III, 18G9 (Tempel), which adds another to 
the list of periodic comets. It was for some time a question whether 
its period was 11 or 5^ years. A thorough discussion of all the observa- 
tions during Its present and last observed apparition by Prof. S. C. 
Chandler, jr., and also by others, proves beyond all doubt that its 
period is a little less than 5i years. 

The Warner Observatory is not yet completed, though work on it is 
progressing satisfactorily, and it will be ready for occupancy* in early 
autumn. The telescope, a 16-iuch refractor by the Clakks, is nearly 
completed. 

Additional information : 

The Warner Observatory- has issued the following circular: 

TO AMERICAN ASTRONOMERS. 

EOCHESTER, ]Sr. Y., January o, 1881. 

Learning that the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna has with- 
drawn its offer of a gold medal valued at $00 for the discovery of comets, 
and being desirous that the search for them should not be abandoned, 
I hereby ofler for every such discovery, subject to the conditions which 
follow, the sum of $200 in gold as a prize, to be known as the Warner' 
Safe liemedy Prize. 

Condition 1. — The comet must be unexpected and telescopic, except- 
ing only tlie comet of 1812, which is expected to reappear during the 
coming year. 

Condition 2. — The first discovery must be made in the United States 
or Canada. 

Condition 3.— Immediate notification by telegraph must be made to 
Prof. Lewis Swift, of Eochester, director of the Warner Observatory, 
who will cause the same to be cabled to Europe, and will also send 
notification to astronomers in this country by special circular or asso- 
ciated press disi>atches. 

Condition 4. — The telegram must give the time of disco\ery, the 
position, direction, and daily rate of motion with sufficient exactness to 
enable at least one astronomer to find it. 

Condition 5.— In the event of any dispute which may arise regarding 



CG2 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

iniority of claim or nonconformity with tJje conditions named, the de- 
cision shall be referred to Prof. Asaph Hall, of the ISTaval Observatory, 
Washington, D. C, and Prof. C. A. Young, of Princeton Observatory, 
and their decision shall be final. 

The above oflt'er, unless previously renewed, will expire January 1, 
1882. 

H. H. AVarner. 



Saint Louis, Missouri. 
Observatory of Washington University. 

Longitude from Washington, 52™ 37«.02 W. 

Latitude, 38° 38' 3".6J: K 

Authority for latitude and longitude : A pier about 150 feet away from 
the observatory pier was located by IIarkness and Eembeck (1870). A 
survey was made from that pier to the new one. 

Director: J. K. Eees, 1877. 

Instruments: 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: maker, Wurdemann ; aperture, 2.G5 
inches; magnifying power, 90 diameters, with micrometer attachment. 

(c) Equatorial instriiment : maker, H. FiTZ, of Kew York City; ap- 
erture of objective, 6^ inches; magnifying jiowers of eye-pieces, 7G, 125, 
190, 305, and 456 diameters, (c') Finder: 2x3^^^ inches aperture; magni- 
fying power, 23 diameters. 

{d) Spectroscope: one single prism Browning spectroscope. 

(e) Fhotomecer and other subsidiary apparatus : filar x^osition, microm- 
eter attached ; clock-work for moving telescope. 

(g) Clod: : mean time ; common tower clock. 

(//) Chronometer: meantime; makers, (1) Dent Xo. 2749, (2) Blackie 
Xo. 789. 

(<■) Miscellaneous : Sextant, by Blunt, of Xew Y'ork City. 



South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 

JSayre Observatory of Lehigh University. 

Longitude from Washington, G'" 40M9 E. 

Latitude, 40° 36' 23".89 K 

Director: C. L. Doolittle. 

Founded in 1877, in connection with Lehigh University. 

INSTRUIMENTS : 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Clark & Sons ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 6 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-i>ieces, 12 to 225. 
(g) Cloclc : sidereal ; makers, Bond & Son. 
\^i) Miscellaneous : A portable transit instrument by Stackpole, a 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 003 

zenith telescope by Blunt, and a prismatic sextant by PiSToii & Mar- 
tin. 

Observations duiiing tue past year : 
Besides the work of instruction, the principal work of the Observatory 
has been a series of measnreiuents of position angles and distances of 
Jupiter's satellites, and of their eclipses. 

Work proposed for the co3iing year (18S1) : 
Observations of Jupiter will be kept up, with such attention to comets 
as circumstances will permit. 



South Hadley, Massachusetts. 
Observatory at Mount Rolyolce Seminary. 

Longitude from Washington, ? 

Latitude, ! 

Through the liberality of Mr. A. L. Williston, of Xorthampton, the 
seminary has recently been enabled to erect a small but very comjilete 
astronomical Observatory, supplied with all the necessary instruments. 
It is designed to furnish the means for instruction to any who may wish 
to make the subject a specialty, and to give oi)portunity to any of the 
teachers or i)ost-gTaduates who may take an interest in astronomy to 
make observations of real value. 

The building, of wood, consists of a tower with a dome 18 feet in 
diameter, flanked by two wings, one extending to the east and one to 
the north. The dome is very light, and rotates so easily that even the 
feeblest of the young ladies can manage it without difdculty. The ar- 
rangements for opening and closing the shutters which cover the slit in 
the dome, and the openings for the transit and prime vertical instrument, 
are worked with equal facility. In the dome is mounted a fine 8-inch 
equatorial by Clark, completely fitted out with clock-work, finding- 
clock, micrometers, spectroscope, solar eye-piece, &c., and so arranged 
that the circles can be read and the clamps and tangent screws worked 
from the eye-piece of the instrument. 

The object-glass is almost entirely the work of the senior Alvan 
Clark, and is one of the most perfect specimens of his art. 

In the transit-room is mounted a meridian circle by Fauth & Co., of 
Washington. The instrument has a telescope of 3 inches aperture, and 
circles of IG inches diameter, reading to seconds by two microscopes. 
It has a reversing apparatus, and is fitted with a "latitude level" and 
micrometer, so that it can, if desired, be used as a zenitli telescope. A 
large collimator is mounted upon a pier south of it, and in a corner of 
the room is a clock with Denison escapement, also by Fautii & Co., as 
is the chronograph, which is mounted in an adjoining closet. The Ob- 
ervatory possesses also a sextant and artificial horizon and a set of 
smeteorological apparatus. 



664 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

There is no instrument in the prime vertical room (which is used 
mainly as a waiting-room or for recitations), but it is provided with a 
pier and shutter, so that the meridian circle can be set up there if it is 
eyer thought desirable to make observations in that iilane. 

The building and its equipment have cost not far from $10,000. 

C. A. Young. 



Tarrytown, Westchester County^ ]!^^ew York. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12™ 4:7M6 E. 

Latitude, 41° 04' 21" K 

Authority for latitude and longitude : United States Coast Survey. 

Director: Charles H. Rockwell. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: makers, — glass. Dr. C. S. Hastings; — 
mounting, John Byrne ; aperture of objective, GJ inches ; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, GO, 112, 170, 243, 327, 409, 751. 

Additional information : 
The equatorial has been mounted in a new observatory 12J feet diam- 
eter of dome. A chronodeik for equal altitude observations has been 
added to the instruments mentioned in i^revious rei)orts. No other 
changes. 



Troy, Rensselaer County^ New York. 
Williams Froudfit Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 13"" 27^5 E, (nearly). 

Latitude, 42o 43' 52" K. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Latitude determined by obser- 
vations with the zenith telescope ; longitude by electro-magnetic signals 
from United States Naval Observatory. 

Director : Professor Dascom Greene. 

Assistant: Palmer C. Eicketts. 
Instruments : 

{b) Meridian transit instruments: one made by E. Kubel, Washing- 
ton; aperture, 2.5 inches; magnifying power, 60 diameters: {h') one 
made by Phelps & Gurley, Troy; aperture, 2 inches; magnifying 
power, 30 diameters. 

(c) JEJquatorial instrument: maker, Henry Fitz, New York; aper- 
ture of objective, 3.5 inches ; magnifying i^owers of eye-pieces, 45 to 200 
diameters. 

(/;) Clocks: one mean time; maker, Stokell, New York; one by 
Howard, Boston. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. (^>C>ij 

{h) Chronometer: siaoreal; maker, J. Fletcuer, London. 

[i) Miscellaneous: Sextant; Troughton & SiiiMS, London. 

Observations during tke past year (from September, 187*), 
to September, 1880) : 

Besides regular transit observations for time, by the director and 
assistants, tlie instruments have been used by the senior class of the 
Kensselaer Polytechnic Institute for practice in astronomical observa- 
tions. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1880-81) : 

This is expected to be similar to the work of the past year. 



Washington, District of Columbia. 

United States Xaval Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5^' 8- 12«.09 W. 
Latitude, 38° 53' 38".8 N. 
Directors: M. F. Maury, 1841; 

J. M. GiLLiss, 18G1; 

C.H.Davis, 1805; 

B. F. Sands, 1867; 

Eear- Admiral John Eodgers, U. S. X., 1874. 
Assistants : 1. Prof. A. Hall, "J 

13. Prof. W. Harkness, j 

3. Prof. J. R. Eastman, )■ Professors, U. S. Kavy. 

4. Prof. E. S. Holden, 



f 

5. Prof. E. Frisby, \ 

^•^^/•£'?:.^-.™''''' Irermanent Assistant Astron- 

( omers. 



7. Mr. H. W. Paul, 

8. Mr. H. S. Pritchett, 



9*. m. J. A. Rogers, Temiwrarihj employed in photographic 

experiments. 
10. Mr. W. F. Gardner, Instrument-maker. 
Created by the Xavy Department in 1833. Transferred in 1S43 to 
University Square. In 1872 it came into possession of an equatorial ot 
ALVAN CLARK & SoN, 32^ feet (9"^9) in focal length, and with an ap - 
ture of 26 inches (0-65) ; by means of which A. Hall discovered the 
. two satellites of Mars in 1877. 

(„) SaHi^S: one; makers, PisTOR & Maktin. ; flinn.etorot 
circles 43.40 iucUes; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscoiies to U 1, ..'kt- 
n^tf obiective, 8.52 inches; for observations of ^^^'^ZZ 
ployed, 3 iucbes; magnifying power ordn.ardy <^V^^ 't ^^ ^. 

ture 3.33 inches; magnifying powers, So, bd, lOb, lit., 10- I" ) = 



C6G REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

portable transits aud zenitli telescopes combined, used on Transit of 
Venus Expeditions. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: one made by Alvan Clabk & Sons; 
aperture of objective, 26 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 126 
to 1600. (c') One made by Merz: 9.62 inches aperture; powers, 90 to 
900. {c") Eight 5 inch equatorials by Alvan Clark & Sons, used on 
Transit of Venus Expeditions. 

(e) Photometer: one nebula-photometer (Hastings' x)atteru) for use 
"with the 26-inch equatorial. 

(/) Chronographs : some 10 or 12 in all, of various kinds. 

{(j) Clocks: mean time, two; sidereal, six. 

(/<) Chronometers: mean time; all the chronometers of the United 
States Xavy are kept here. Sidereal, eight, by Negus. 
Work proposed for the coming year : 

The same as in former years. 
Additional information : 

[The following is a short abstract of the annual report of the Super- 
intendent of the Observatory to the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, 
and in it will be found details additional to the information presented 
above.— E. S. H.] 

United States Naval Observatory, 

Washington^ October ^ 20, 1879. 

******* 

The 26-inch equatorial. — This instrument has been in charge of Prof. 
Asaph Hall, with Prof. Edward S. Holden as assistant until Febru- 
ary, 1880, since which time Prof. Edgar Frisby has been the assistant. 
The instrument is now in good order, and it is in constant use. It has 
been employed as in previous years in the observation of satellites, dou- 
ble stars, and nebulce. 

The transit circle. — This instrument has been employed during the 
year under the direction of Prof. J. li. Eastman, who was assisted by 
Prof. Edward S. Holden as an observer since- April 1, 1880; Prof. 
Edgar Frisby until December 10, 1879; Assistant Astronomer A. N. 
Skinner during the year; Assistant Astronomer 11. M. Paul until his 
resignation, July 1, 1880, and Assistant Astronomer 11. S. Pkitchett 
until his resignation, February 1, 1880. Mr. Miles IIock has been em- 
l)loyed as a temporary assistant astronomer since July ], 1880; and Mr. 
William C. Winlock has been similarly employed since August 2, 1880. 
Mr. WiNSLOW Upton has been emi)loyed as a computer since July 10, 
1880. Lieut. E. Longnecker and Lieut. A. H. Vail have been em])loyed 
in reducing transit-circle observations, the former during the year and 
the latter since April 23, 1880. 

The observations have been confined to^ — 

1. Stars of the American eiDhemeris for clock and instrumental cor- 
rections. 

2. Sun, moon, major and minor planets. 

3. Stars whose occultations were observed in connection with obser- 
vations of the transit of Venus in 1874. 

4. Standard stars for a catalogue of zone observations. 

5. Such stars of the British Association catalogue between 120° 0' 



EEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. GG7 

and lol'^' 10' X. P. D. as have not been observed liere three times in 
both ri<>ht ascension and declination. 

G. Stars nsed in observations of comets with the LMJ-iiich and U.d-inch 
equatorial. 

7. Stars nsed in the determination of latitude by the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Lake Survey, Capt. G. M. Wueeler's 
Survey, and by Lieut. Conunander Y. M. Greeis' in surveys in the West 
Indies. 

Tbe whole number of observations made with the transit circle since 
the last report is 4,140. Of these observations, 08 weic of the sun, 02 
of the moon, 145 of the major planets, and ll") of the minor planets. 

The printing of the annual volume for 1870 has lieen delaytMl several 
months by lack of fuiuls, but it is now nearly d()iu\ Of the transit 
circle Avork, that for 1877 is ready for the })rint(M': the reductions of the 
1878 observations are nearly hnished ; those of 1879 are nearly tinished 
to apparent i)lace ; while those of 1880 are as lav advanced as the na- 
ture of the w^ork Avill permit. 

The d.G inch equatorial. — This instrument is under the direction of Prof. 
J. R. EAST3IAN, who has the same assistants as on the work with the 
transit circle. It has been emi)loyed in the observations of comets and 
occultations of stars, and also in determining tlie apjtroximate correc- 
tions to the ephemerides of such minor planets as are not rea<lily found 
with the transit circle. 

The meteorologi(;al department is under the direction of l*rofessor 
Eastman, and tlie usual observations, at intervals of three hours, 1)e- 
giuningat midnight, have been made throughout the year by the watch- 
men, Messrs. Hays, JIoeigan, and Cahill. 

Astronomical photographii. — The experiments in astronomical i)hoto- 
graphy, including the reduction of the i^hotographii! observations of the 
transit of IMercury in May, 1878, are under the charge of Prof. Wm. 
H ARKNESS, who has been assisted by Master E. F. Qualtrough and by 
Mr. Joseph A. Kogers. 

At the date of my last report the reductions of the Ann Arbor photo- 
graphs of the transit of Mercury were suspended because the reticule 
l>hite used in making the pictures had not been returned to this obser- 
vatory. Since then the plate has been received, and the work of reduc- 
ing the i>hotographs has made considerable progress. 

An investigation has just been commenced for the purpose of obtain- 
ing some light on the following questions, namely : 
• 1st. What are the capabilities of objectives of various sizes for as- 
tronomical photography, and what are the ajjproximate exposure coefli- 
cieuts for the different classes of celestial objects"? 

2d. What form of an ai)paratus is best adapted for photographing 
the corona during total solar eclipses, and what exposure coefficient is 
likely to be required ? 

3d. What kind of pyroxylene is best adapted for astronomical pho- 
tography, and how can it be produced with certainty ? IMuch time has 
been spent in planning these experiments, and in devising suitable 
apparatus for executing them, and it is hoped that they will lead to 
practical results. ^ 

Solar ecliines of July 20, 1878, and January 11, 1880.— The reports on 
these eclipses have been collected into a volume (which is noticed else- 
where). 

The first part of the Transit of Veims papers, embracuig the liistory 
and general discussion, is in the hands of the printer, and the composi- 



668 REPORTS OF ASTRONONICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

tiou is about comiolete. The press-work was, however, postponed on 
account of the incomplete state of the general reductions of the obser- 
vations to appear in Part II. These reductions cannot be completed 
without a small additional appropriation for the j)urpose. 

The library. — The library contains 8,500 volumes, distributed about as 
follows : 

I. Works on astronomy, mathematics, geodesy, physics, meteorology, 
and geography, including transactions of learned societies — about 0,200 
volumes. 

II. Pamphlets on the same subjects, each one separately bound in 
paper covers, i)laced in drawers, and classified by subjects — abont 1,000 
numbers. 

III. Miscellaneous works of reference, &c., in the office of the Super- 
intendent — abont 700 volumes. 

IV. Publications of the United States Senate and House of Repre- 
sentatives — abont 600 volumes. 

Total, 8,500 volumes. 

A card catalogue of about 1G,000 cards has been completed. It is 
not necessary to print this at present. After the cards become soiled 
by use, they should be printed to preserve them. 

Distribution of the publications of the Observatory, — A list of 921 names 
has been prepared, and to these correspondents our j)ublications are 
distributed. Academies of science, public observatories, and the princi- 
pal colleges, receive the complete volumes. The appendices are dis- 
tributed to all observatories, to the principal astronomers, and others in- 
terested in astronomy. 

In return for this liberal distribution, the library receives, free of cost, 
the publications of the principal observatories, learned societies, &c., of 
the world. 

Since February, 1870, about 12,000 separate numbers of our publica- 
tions have been distributed. These were mostly to fill sets which had 
been left incomplete in former distributions. At present all our corre- 
spondents have complete sets of our volumes, as far as we can supply 
them. 

In addition to his duties as librarian. Professor Holden takes his 
regular tour of duty as an observer on the transit circle ; and he has 
made a set of drawings of the planets Saturn and Jupiter, with the 
26-inch equatorial, and a series of measures of the dusky ring of Saturn, 
in continuation of those made in 1879. 

During the year the Western Union time-ball iu New York has failed" 
nine times : once on account of a heavy snow-storm ; four times owing 
to interruption to the Western Union lines ; and four times owing to 
accidents to machinery. The Washington time-ball has failed twice, 
owing to accidents to machinery. 



West Point, Xew Yorlc. 

\ West Point Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12"^ 22^71 E. 
Latitude, 41° 23' 31" K 
Director: . 



REPORTS OF ASTROXO^nCAL OBSERVATORIES. GG9 

WiLLETS Point, Queens CounUj, Xtic Yorl:. 
Field Observatory — Engineer School of Application. 

Longitude from WashingtoD, 13"' 04\57 E. ± OM-i. 

Latitude, 40^ 47' 21".59 X. ± 0".0S. 

Latitude determined by observations with zenith telescope. Longi- 
tude determined by telegraphic time-signals from jSTaval Observatory, 
Washington. 

Director : General ICenry L. Abeot. 

Assistant : Capt. J. C. Mallery. 
Instruments : 

(h) Meridian transit instruments: {Four:) One, makers, Lingke & 
Co., Silesia ; aperture, 2^ inches ; magnifying power, — diameters ; focal 
length, 30 inches. One, Eussian transit, aperture, 2.0 inches ; Stackpole 
& Bro., New York ; focal length, 30 inches. One, Troughton, ai)erture, 
2 inches; Troughton, London; focal length, 30 inches. One, Stack- 
pole, aperture, 2 inches ; Stackpole & Bro., New York ; focal length, 
24 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : makers, Fauth & Co., Washington ; 
aperture of objective, 5J inches; magnifying x)owers of eyepieces, as- 
sorted. 

(/) Ghronograplis : Hipp's; Negus-Morse register. 

{h) Chronometers : one mean time ; makers, Arnold & Dent : one 
sidereal; makers, Lukens; Bond & Son. Both break-circuit. 

(i) Miscellaneous: One portable telescope, equatorially mounted; one 
zenith telescope — William Wurdemann ; two sextants, Stackpole 
& Bro. ; one personal equation machine ; one barometer, Green's 
cistern. 

Observations during the past year : 

Observations for determining latitude and longitude, for instruction 
of engineer officers at the school. 

Observations upon auroral disi^lays, extended through entire night, 
and continued since 1870. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 

Similar to above. 

Principal publications of the observatory during the 

YEAR : 
Annual battalion order announcing results of season's works. 

Additional information : 
Observations on the Aurora Borealis — The regular series of records of 
the displays of the Aurora Borealis, begun in 1870, has been continued, 
as heretofore. Three sentinel posts, widely separated from each other, 
are guarded nightly by soldiers of the Battalion of Engineers specially 
selected as watchmen. Eight men are thus permanently detailed. 
Three of them remain on duty from sunset to sunrise, and are required 



G70 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



to report, when relieved, whether they have seen any auroral light dur- 
iugthe night ; and if not, whether the slcy has been sufficiently clear to 
I)ermit any to be visible. These records for the past year are presented 
in the following consolidated table — which, considering the difficulty of 
distinguishing the fainter displays, is regarded as establisLing the trust- 
worthy character of the record by the ge::eral accordance between the 
three independent observers. It appears that out of 216 favorable 
nights, 13 auroras were noted ; and if we may assume the same ratio to 
apply to the clouded nights, about 22 auroral displays occurred during 
the twelve months. 

Auroral disjiloifs in 1880. 



Name of month. 



Jannarv 

Febniary 

Man-li 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Total for year 



Auroras. 



^ I 



0.0 
0.0 
1.3 

i.y 

0.3 
0.0 
1.0 

:!. 

1.0 
2.0 
3.0 

0.0 



Clear nights. 



^ I 



14.7 
17.3 
16.3 
1«. 
18.7 
19.3 
18.3 
18.0 
18.3 
20.7 
16.0 
20.0 



223 i 213 |215.6 



Clouded nitrhts. 



in. 3 
11.7 
14.7 
12 
12.3 
10.7 
12.7 
13.0 
11.7 
10.3 
14.0 
11.0 



155 143 1 153 I 150.4 



Summary of auroral records for eleven years. 





Clear sky. 


Cloudy sky. 


d 

'a 
o 
H 




Tear. 


re 


'3 . 

o ? 


S 

r 


S3 


Remarks. 


1870 


184 
211 
234 
214 
190 
189 
195 
191 
185 
204 
216 


50 
CO 
GO 

54 
18 
14 

? 

2 
9 
13 


1.50 
154 
132 
151 
175 
17G 
171 
174 
ISO 
101 
150 


41 

44 

34 

38 

17 

13 

8 

6 

2 

7 

9 


99 
104 
94 
92 
35 
27 
17 
13 


Begun February 1, 1870. 


1871 


1872 




1873 ... 




1874 . 




1875 




1876 




1877 




1878 


4 


1879 


16 


1880 


00 







These observations were undertaken to throw light upon the stipposed 
connection between the number of solar spots and the frequency of 
auroras and of magnetic disturbances. They have now been continued 
long enough to give interest to the foregoing summary compiled from 
the general orders above cited. No corresponding record of solar spots 
during this period of eleven years is at hand for precise comparison ; 
.but such records have been preserved, and they show the number of 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. (171 

spots in tlie yoarl87() to bo ainaxiinuiii and ill 1878 a niiniimun. It will 
be noted that these years are nearly those of maxinnini and miniinnui 
observed auroras. 



Willia:mstown, MaH^acMsetts. 

^YiUi((lthst()^cn Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 15'" ]8«.G E. 
Latitude, 42^ 42' 49" N." 
Director : ? 



Ypsilanti, Washtenaw County^ Michiyan. 

State Normal School Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 20"' 10'' W. , 

Latitude, 42° 13' K 

Authority for latitude and longitude: J. C. Watson. 
Director : Lewis McLouth, j\I. A. 

Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument : nialver, GURLEY, Albany 5 aperture 
IJ inches; magnifying power, 30 diameters. 

((') Equatorial instrument : maker, A. Clark, Cand)ridgeport, Mass.; 
aperture of objective, 4 inches ; magnifying powers of eye pieces, 45, 00, 
144, 210. 

{(1) Sjiccfroseojye : Browning, London, 2 prism. 

{h) Chronometer : sidereal; maker, Negus. 

[i] Miscellaneous: The observatory building is completed. Xo syste- 
matic work has been done. The building is small, and its equipment is 
for instruction rather than investigation. The equatorial is quite good 
— the one with which Professor Watson made his observations on the 
supposed planet Vulcan. 



IL FOREIGN OBSERVxVTORIES. 

Aberdeen, Scotland. 

See Dun Echt. 



Abo, Russia. 



Abo Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 29°' 8».2 E. 
Latitude, GOO 20' SC'.SK 
Director : ? 



672 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Adelaide, South Australia. 
Observatory Branch of Post- Office and TelegrajpJi Department. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9^ 14™ 21« E. 

Latitude, 34° 57' S. 

Director : C. ToDD, 18G0. 

"Our Observatory is but a young institution, but Parliament bas 
recently voted over £3,000 for instruments and buildings, including a 
large Transit circle, and a barograph, thermograph, Kew anemometer, 
&c. We already possess a fine Equatorial, with which good work is 
done." 

C. Todd, 
Government Astronomer. 



Algiers, Algeria. 

Ohservatoire National, 

Longitude from Greenwich, 12™ 118.39 E. 
Latitude, 36° 45' 2". 7 N. 
Director : 1 



Altona, Prussia. 

Stermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 39™ 46«.35 E. 
Latitude, 53° 32' 45".3 N. ! 

Built upon the ramparts in 1815 ; transferred to Kiel in 1873, (See 
Kiel.) 
Directors : H. C. Schumacher, 1816 ; 

A. C. Petersen (transient), 1851 5 

P. A. Hansen, 1852 ; 

C. A. F. Peters, 1855. 



Armagh, Ireland. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2G™ 35^.5 W. 
Latitude, 54° 21' 12". 7 N. 

Founded in 1792 as .a dependency of the University. 
Directors : J. A. Hamilton, 1792 ; 
T. E. Robinson, 1825. 



REPORTS OF A.STrtONOMICAL Ol'.SERVATORIES. G73 

Atuens, Greece. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Grceinvicli, I'' 34'" 55^7 E. 

Latitude, 37° 58' 20" N. 

Commenced in 1845. Erected through the liberality of IJaron VON 
SiNA, in Vienna. It has a dome containing- a refractor of G.7 inches 
(0°M7) aperture. 

Directors : G. C. BoNRis, 1844 ; 

J. F. J. Schmidt, 1858. 



Basle, iSicitzcrland. 

Ph ysika I isch es Inst it u t. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Ed. IlAciENBAcn. 

Instruments: 

{(i) The Meridian circle, constructed by the Soci6te Genevoise, with 2i- 
iuch objective, by C. A. Steinheil. 

(c) The Equatorial, made by the "Societe Genevoise pour la construc- 
tion d'instruments de i)bysique" mounted on an isolated pillar, nnder a 
movable dome of 16A- feet (5 meters) diameter. The instrument is pro- 
vided with a centrifugal regulator, constructed according to Prof. M. 
Tiiuiiy's directions, with position micrometer, spectroscope, and camera 
obscura. 

(f7) Spectroscope. 

{()) The astronomical clock vi-as constructed by Theodor Knoblich, 
in Hamburg. 

The mean time is given by means of an electric pendulum, by ^I. 
Hipp, in Neuenburg. 

Both clocks connect with a number of dials in various rooms, and also 
with the chronograph. 



Bergen, Norway. 

Naval Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, "? 

Founded in 1788. So far has only been used to furnish the standard 
time. 

Directors: 0. F. G. BoHR, 1818; 

J. J. Astrand, 1833. (?) 
S. Mis. 31 43 



f)74 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Berlin, Prussia. 

Eonigliche Sternwartc. 

Longitude from Greeuwicli, 53™ 34^.91 E. 
Latitude, 52° 30' 1G".7 K 
Directors: G. Kirch, 170G; 

J. H. Hoffmann, 1710; 
C.Kirch, 1717; 
J. W.Wagner, 1740; 
H. N. Grischow, 1745 ; 
J. KiES, 1754; 
r. U. S. Aepinus,1755; 
j. j. huber, 175g; 
Jean Bernoulli, 1767; 
J. E. Bode, 1786; 
J. F. Encke, 1825 ; 
W. J. Foerster, 1865. 
Librarian : Dr. V. Knorre. 

Founded at the request of Leibnitz in 1705; completed in 1711. 
Originally situated in the suburb Dorotheenstadt, in the northern part of 
the city. A great square tower of live stories, 46 feet (14 meters) in 
length and 88i feet (27 meters) in height. This Observatory was re- 
modelled in 1787 and again in 1800. In 1833 a new Observatory was 
built at the southern extremity of the Oharlotteu Strasse. The "Astro- 
nomische Jahrbuch" has been published annually since 1776. It was 
here that Galle discovered Neptune in 1846. 



Bern, Switzerland. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 29"^ 46^ E. 
Latitude, 46° 57' 8".7 N. 
Directors : F. Frechsel, 1821 ; 

E. Wolf, 1847; 

J. Koch, 1856; 

H. Wild, 1859; 

A. J. T. FORSTER, 1871. 
Constructed upon a bastion in 1822. In plan a regular octagon, the 
circle described about which has a diameter of 65^ feet (20 meters). 



Birr Castle, Ireland. 

Far sons-town Ohserrafo rij. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31"^ 40«.9 W. 
Latitude, 53° 5' 47" N. 
Director: The Earl of Kosse. 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 675 

Instruments : 
It is here was erected the celebrated sixty-foot rellectin*^- telescope, 
witli a six-foot si)ecnliiin. 



Bogota, United States of Colombia. 
lUnjota Oh.sen'((toyy. 



Longitude from (Jrceiiwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Recently founded. 
Director: Gonzales. 



Bologna, Italy. 

Osser ratorio A .stro n om ico. 

Longitude from Green wicli, 45'" 24^0 E, 
Latitude, 44° 29' 47" N. 



Bo:mbay, India. 
Government ()l>scrv((tory at Colaha. 

Longitude from Greenwich, t 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Charles Chambers. 

The ])rincipal work of the Colaba Observatory is in the fields of ter- 
restrial magnetism and meteorology, and astronomical observations are 
made only for the practical purpose of time keeping, partly for the i)ub- 
lic service and partly for the use of the Observatory. 



Bonn, Prussia. 

Universitdts Stertiwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 28>" 23«.29 E. 
Latitude, oOo 43' 45" N. 
Directors: K. D. von MiJNCHOW, 1818; 
F. W. A. Argelander, 1837 j 

E. SCHONFELD, 1875. 

Founded in 1818 near the University. The erection of a more com- 
plete Observatory was decided upon in 1837, and the new establishment 
was finished in 1840. It includes two halls for meridian instruments 
and five turrets. Here it was that the review of the heavens, known 
under the name of " Durchmusterung," was undertaken and accomplished 
under the direction of Argelander, including all stars n\) to the ninth 
magnitude. 



670 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES, 

BoTHCAMP, near Kiel, Prussia. 

Observatory. 

LoDgitude from Greenwich, 40™ 30^8 E. 
Latitude, 54° 12' 9".6 K 
Director: "? 



Bordeaux, France. 
Ohservatoire. 



Longitude from Greenwicli, 

Latitude, ? 

Director: *? 



Bremen, Germany. 
Observatorium der Navigations Schule. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director : ? 



Breslau, Prussia. 

UniversitUts Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^ 8"^ 8^71 E. 
Latitude, 51° G' 56".5 N. 
Directors : J. E. Scheibel, 1759; 
L. A. JUNGNITZ, 1780; 
H. W. Brandes, 1809; 
P. H. L. Van Boynslarvski, 1827 ; 
Prof. Dr. J. G. Galle, 1852. 
Observations here were begun about 1760 at the gymnasium, where 
the professor of mathematics had collected a few instruments. They 
were continued at tlie University, and the Observatory properly so called 
was gradually developed. 



Brussels, Belgium. 

Ohservatoire Boy ale. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17" 28^6 E. 
Latitude, 50° 51' 10".5 N. 
Directors: L. A. J. Quetelet, 1829- 
J. C. HouzEAU. 187G, 



REPORTS OF ASTRO>y'OMICAL 013S1•:R^'AT0RIE.S. (',77 

riqjectcd in 1820, beiiun in 1820, completed in 18.']1. A liirj;e hull Ibr 
meridian observations is located between two wings, each surmounted 
by a turret. 



BlTDAPESTII, Jliou/drt/. 

K. K. iSti r)ur((yfc. 

See O/cn. 



Cadiz, l^p<(in. 
l^aval Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 
Latitude, ? 



Cairo, Egypt 
OJ>Herra to ire Kh edwia I. 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Maiimoitd. 
Founded about 1850. 



Cambridge, Enyland. 
Camhridge Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 22^75 E. 
Latitude, 52° 12' 51". G K. 
i)t>ecfor.s'; W. LUDLAM,17C7; 

A. Shepherd, 17G9; 
S. YiNCE, 1797 ; 
R. WooDiiousE, 1820- 
G. B. xViRY, 1827 ; 
J. CnALLis, 1830; 

J. C. ADAMS, 1800. . 

Commenced at Christ College; removed to St. Johns College ni 1.07. 
Li 1701 a special location was assigned to it above the entrance gate ot 
Trinitv College. The senate of the Uni^-ersity caused a better Obser^ a- 
tory to be erected in 1820, which was con.plcted in 1824. The structure 
consists of four halls forming a cluster of budduigs. 



678 REPORTS OF ASTROXOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Cape Town, Africa. 

Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^ 13'" "55^ E. 

Latitude, 33° 50' 3".4 S. 

Authority for longitude, Henderson ; for hititude, Stone. 

Directors: F. Fallows, 1820; 

T. Henderson, 1831; 
T. MacleAR, 1834; 
E. J. Stone, 1870; 
David Gill, 1879. 
Assistants : W. H. Finlay ; 
G. Maclear; 
EoBT. H. Pelt; 
I. Freeman. 
Founded in 1820. Owned no instruments of importance until 1829. 
It was not at this Observatory that John Herschel made his observa- 
tions, but some distance from here on a private estate called Feldhau- 

SEN. 

Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle, by Eansome & Simms for the engineering part; 
TrouGtHTON & SIMMS for micrometric and optical part ; a sister instru- 
ment to the Greenwich circle; diameter of circles, 06 inches; divided 
to 5'; read by microscopes to O'.Ol estimating easily to O'.OOl as at 
Greenwich. Aperture of objective, 8 inches ; magnifying power always 
emjiloyed, 200 diameters. 

{e) Equatorial instruments : makers, object-glass by Merz, mounting 
(German form) by Troughton & Simms ; aperture of objective, 6.9 
inches ; magnifying i^ower of eyepieces, 40 to 400. (c') Small equato- 
rial, 3.0-inch aperture (Bollard), 46 inches focal length, mounting on 
long polar axis (English form), maker unknown ; without clock-work, 
at present dismounted. 

{d) Spectroscope: spectroscope by Troughton &, Simms. 

(/) Chronograph : one by Bond, not at present in use. 

{()) Clods: one mean time; maker, Molyneux : one sidereal ; * maker, 
Barraud. 

(h) Chronometers : mean time and sidereal. A supply of these instru- 
ments kept for use of Her Majesty's ships, consequently frequently 
changed. 

(i) Miscellaneous : A heliometer of 5 feet focal length, 4 inches 
(French) aperture. Tube and cradle by Eepsold, mounting by Grubb. 
(This instrument is the private property of Mr. Gill.) 

*Anew normal clock, with Airy's escapement and air-tight case, is in course of 
construction by Messrs. Dent. 



EEPOKT!^ OF ASTIJOXOMICAI. OHSEKVATOIJIKS. f;79 

OBSERYATION.S I)UK1>(} TIIK PAST YEAR (flOlU JaUlUUy 1, 186U, 

to January 1, 1881) : 

(«) Fundamental stars tor Scliocn fold's "Durcliinustorniiii-." 

Additional stars of X. and S. declination for mvestij^ations eounected 
with refrac-tion. 

Daily observations of « and ,1 Centauri for parallax. 

Small list of stars observed at request of Dr. Auwers. 

Selected list of circumpolar stars. 

Long series of observations connected Avilli investigations on personal 
equation. 

List of stars to be used in connecting longitudes of Aden and Cai)e of 
Good Hope. 

((') Every star, down to 6tli of May, occulted by the inooii has been 
observed when weather permitted. Every eclipse of .Iu]>iter's satellites 
has been observed when weather permitted. 

(/) The heliometer arrived in December. Observations with tliat in- 
strument for annual parallax of ,5 Centauri, ; Indl and ,? Jli/dri ha\e 
been commenced. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

Completion of observations of Schoenfeld's fundamental stnrs. 

Completion of jiersonal equation investigations. 

Continuation of observations of « and ,3 Centauri. 

Comi)letion of a useful catalogue of southern circumpolars for observ- 
ers of transit of Venus, 1882. 

Completion of longitude connection of Aden and Cape ofCood Hope. 

Researches with the heliometer on parallax of fixed stars. 

C3ntinuance of series of observations of 0(;cultations of stars by the 
moon and eclipses of Jupiter's satellites. Arrangements being made for 
application of photometer to these latter observations, as at Cambridge, 
United States. 

Additional information: 

There have been no publications of the observatory issued during the 
past year (1880). The great catalogue of 12,400 stars, deduced from ob- 
servations 1870-'79, was taken to England in 1879 by Mr. Stone for 
publication, together with the annual volumes for 1877-78 in M3S. 
Owing to necessary alterations in the microscopes of the transit circle, 
and to some other instrumental changes, the new series of X. V. D. work 
was not begun till March, 1880. The completion of one series of obser- 
vations and the commencement of another creates a gap in the plan of 
publications. The Cape catalogue for 1850, deduced from ^Nlaclear's ob- 
servations in 1849, '50, '51, and '52 is nearly completed. It contains all 
stars of the B. A. C. catalogue having south declination. 

There are also under preparation for press : 

Occultations of stars by the moon (about 400 in number) observed be- 
tween 1834 and 1870, reduced and compared with tables. 



680 REPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

A series of observations of double stars made between 1849 and ] 8G8 
(cMefly observations of a Centauri, and some of tlie most interesting 
southern double stars). 



CATHARrxEBURG, Eiissia. 
Astronomical, 3Iagnefical, and Meteorological Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4'' 2'" 48^ E. 

Latitude, 50^ 49' X. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Kupffee (1841); Fritsche 
(1873 and 187C) ; Scharxhorst and Kuhlberg (1875). 

Director : G. O. Clerc, secretary Xatural History Society. 

Observers : V. A. Babkix ; 

A. M. Chechulix. 

{b) 2Ieridian transit instrument: makers, Ertel & SoHN (small pas- 
sage instrument) ; aperture, 1.5 inches, {b') Another by Brauer in St. 
Petersburg (universal instrument). 

{g) Cloclcs: one mean time; maker, F. Flauth, in St. Petersburg 
(without Xo.) ; another regulator, without name. 

{li) Chronometers : mean time ; makers, F. Flauth, Xo. 37 ; Wiren, 
No. 8G. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Magnetic theodolite, Brauer, Xo. 37 ; Brauer's 
compass for magnetical declination and intensity ; Gambey's inclinato- 
rium ; variation magnetometers (syst. Gauss) ; several series of me- 
teorological instruments of difi^ferent construction ; thermometers for 
observation of the temperature from superficy to three meters depth. 

Observations during the past year : 
[a) The passage instrument was used every day whenever the weather 
permitted, for determination of time by observation of the sun. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Magnetic and meteorological observations ; elaboration of those ob- 
servations. 

Principal publications of the observatory ditiing the 
YEAR 1880 : 
The observatory does not \)v\\ii anything ; all its observations appear 
in the annals of the central Observatory at St. Petersburg. 

G. O. Clerc: Debacle de la Tchonsdomia (Paiss. and French), p. 83, 
vol. V, " Bulletin de la Societe ouralienne des sciences natm-elles." 

G. O. Clerc : Translations from German into Eussian, and from Eus- 
siau into French, in the 5th and 0th vols, of the " Bulletin de la Societe 
ouralienne des sciences uaturelles." 



KErORTS OF ASTJJONOMK'AI. OliSl.KVATOKIES. 681 

CiiAPri/nopKC, ^[e.rico. 

y<(ii(»i(t I Observatory. 

Longitiule from (axH'iiwicli, (>'' ;3G"> 38^24 W. 
Latitude, 19o 25' 11 ".rt X. 
Director: A. AnguiAjS'o, 1S78. 
rrojected in 187Gj established in 1878. 



Chkistiam A, Xonrai/. 
Un iversi tilts Stern tea rte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 42'" r);j\(!."» K. 

Latitude, 50° 54' 4;}".7 X. 

Authority for hititu<h' and longitude: JJcschreibung und Lage der 
Universitiits Sternwarte in Christiania: N'cihandlung der fiiid'ten allge- 
nieiuen Conferenz der europiiischen (iradnu'ssnng, p, odO. Exped. 
chrouom, execntee en 1844 eutre Alton and (ireenwi(;li. 

Directors : C. IIansteen, 1815 ; 
C. Feaenley, 1873. 

Observer: U. Geelmuyden. 

Watchman : J- Thronden. 

Projected in 1815 ; constructed in 1818 ; rebuilt at some distance from 
the first structure in 1830. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circles : one ; makers, Ertel, with objective by Frau- 
ENHOFER and Utzschneider : diameter, 38 inches ; divided to 3', 
read by 4 microscopes to 2" • nperture of objective, 4 inches : magniiy- 
ing jjower, 180 diameters. 

(b) Portable transit instrument : Pistor & INFartins, makers; aper- 
ture of objective, 2 inches ; magnifying power, 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial by A. & G. Repsold. Diameter of circles, 30 inches, 
divided to 3' ; read by 2 microscopes to V ; aperture of objective, ii 
inches ; magnifying power, 50-21>0. Wire micrometer and ring mi- 
crometer, (c') Refractor : Makers, G. Merz cS: Sohne; objective, 7 
inches ; magnifying power, 80-000 ; diameters of circles 10 and 14 inches ; 
read by 2 Noniers each to 4^ and 10". Wire micrometer. 

{(1) Small universal star-spectroscope by Merz, a vision directe. 

iff) Clocl-s: one sidereal : pendulum, by Kessels, 13G5; one mean time, 
by Ure. Jurgensen og Sonner (for the bifdar) : one by L. Lamtvork 
(for the unifilar) ; F in the magnetic building. 

(/t) Chronometers: meantime; (Box) Kessels, 1251); (Pocket) Kes- 
sels, 1280: one sidereal; Dent, 2103. 

(?) Unifilar magnetometer, by Meyerstein ; bifdar magnetometer^ 



682 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

by Meyerstein ; iucliiiatometers, by Gaivibey, Barlow, Dover ; siphon 
barometer, by Pistor ; cistern barometer, by Fortin ; thermometers, 
phiviaineters, &c. 

Observations during the past year : 

Supplementary observations of zone stars betAveen 04° 50' and 70^ 
10' oST. declination (for the astronomical society). Eegular time deter- 
mination (for the benefit of navigation), sent twice a week to all Nor- 
wegian ports. 

{b) Observations for determiuation of longitude between Christiania 
and Bergen. 

(c) Observations on Comet Hartwig (1880 d.). (c') [1870. Observa- 
tions for the preliminary parallax determination of Argel. Oeltz, 11G77.] 

{(1) []S73-'74. Drawings and measuremerits of protuberances.] 

(i) Magnetic observations (twice a day). Meterological observations 
(fifteen every day). 

Additional information : 

Six astronomical lectures every week by the director, and 3 to 4 by the 
observer. 

Observations for the European "Gradmessung" were made for the 
determination of azimuth and pole distance, by the director, during 
the months of July and August, at a trigonometrical station near 
Drontheim. 



Churts, England. 
Private Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director: E. Carrington. 



CoiMBRA, Portugal. 

Observatorio Magnetico-Meteorologico de la Universidade de Coimbra. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33™ 34^5 W. 
Latitude, 40° 12' 2o".8 N. 
Directors: J. MoNTEiRO de Eocha, 1796 j(?) 
De Pinheiro, 1820 ; 
De Souza Pinto, 1855. (!) 
Established about 179C. From 1799 to the present time the A stro- 
nomical Ephemeris has been published here, which for ten years previous 
(since 1789) had been issued at Lisbon. 



REPORTS OF ASTKONOMICAL OHSKRVATORIES. 083 

CoLLOO>"EY, Ireland. 

Ma rlrcc Observatory. 

Lougitudc from Giecmvicli, ? 

Latitude, — 
Director: — 



5> 



Colombo, Ceylon, Asia. 
Frivatc Observatory. 



Lougitiule from Greenwicli, 

Latitiulo, ? 

Director: Mr. Green. 



Copenhagen, Denmarl-. 
TJniversitcts Astronomisl^e Obscrvatoriuni. 



Loiii;itiulc from Greenwich, 50"' 19^2 E. 
Latitude, 55° 41' 13".C N. 
Director : "? 



Cordoba, Argentine Keimhlic. 
Observatorio National Argentino. 

Longitude from Greeuwieli, 4^^ 10"' 45M W. 

Latitude, 31° 25' 15«.4 S. 

Director: B. A. Gould, 1870. , .^i . 

Proposed in 1S(J9; built in 1871 on an eminence southeast of the town; 
•I cruciform structure, with four towers at the extremities of the hmbs of 
the cross. The Uranometria A/'^/eH^ina was constructed here, containing 
all the stars, up to those of the seventh magnitude, which arc visible 
in the southern heavens. 

Cork, Ireland. 
Observatory of Queen\s College. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ^ 

Founded' in 1878. Hall for meridian observations. Dome 14^ feet 
(4'". 5) in diameter. 



684 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Cracow, Austria. 

Cracow Ohservaiory'. 

Longitude from Greenwich, l'^ 19'" oO^o E. 
Latitude, 50° '6' 50" N. 
Director : ? 



Cronstadt, Eussia. 
JSfaval Astronomical Observatory. 



Longitude from Green wicli, 

Latitude, ? 

Director : ? 



Danzig, Prussia. 

Ster)iirarte. 

Ohservaiory of the ISociety of Naturalists (Xaturforschende Gesellscbaft). 
Established in 1783. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 14"' 39\3 E. 
Latitude, 54° 21' 18" N. 
Directors : J. A. Koch, 1783 ; 
E. Kayser, 1850. (!) 



Derpt (Dorpat), Russia. 

TmperatorsJcaia AstronomichesJcaia Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, T' 4G"' .53*^.5 E. 
Latitude, 58° 22' 47".4 X. 
Directors: J. AV. A. Pfaff, 1808 5 

F. G. W. Struve, 1813; 

J. n. Madler, 1840; 

T. Clausen, 1874; 

L. SCHWARZ, 1878. 
Founded in 1808, as a dependency of the University. In 1825 Fraun- 
hofer's equatorial, with an aperture of 9 inches and a focal length 
of 13i feet, moved by clock-work, the largest and most powerful 
refractor in the world at that time, was mounted there. AYith the help 
of this instrument the elder Struve accomplished his famous Mensnne 
]\Iicrometrica\ published in 1837, and continued by his successor. 



REPORTS OF AsriJONOMK'Ar. OBSERVATORIES. ()85 

Dublin, Ireland. 
7>ini.siiik Oh.scrratory. 

Longitude from (h-ecnwicli, 25'" 21'' W. 

Latitude, 53° 23' V.V N. 

Authority for latitude aud longitude: J)r. liuuNXOW. 

I)i}-€cfor,s: II. Usshek, 1774; 

J. Brinkley, 1792; 

W. K. Hamilton, 1827; 

F, Brunnow, 1805 ; 

Prof. Robert S. Ball, LL.I)., F. K. S., Astronomer Royal 
of Ireland^ 1875. 
Assistant: J. L. E. Dkeyer. 

Observatory of Trinity College. 

Founded in 1771, by means of the legacy left for the i)urpose by F. 
Andeews; built in the midst of a vast park at Dunsink, IV} miles (6 
kilometers) northwest of Dublin. It was not finished until 1792. A 
structure of three stories, surmounted by a revolving dome. 
Instruments : 

(«) Meridian circle: makers, PiSTOR & Martins; diameter of circles, 
36 inches; divided to 2'; read by 8 microscopes to 1"; aperture of ob- 
iective, G.4 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 180 diam- 
eters. 

(h) Meridian transit instruments : one, made by Kamsden; aperture, 
4 inches: not in use. {h') One with reversible circle by Ramsdbn & 
BerCtE ; object-glass, 3 inches ; diameter of circle, 8 feet ; 3 micrometers: 
not iu use. 

(c) Uquatorial instruments: one; makers, Cauchoix object-glass, 
Grubb mounting; aperture of objective, llj inches; magnifying powers 
of eye-pieces, 300: is generally used. {&) One of four inches aperture ; 
English equatorial by Tulley. (?) Hardly ever used. 

(d) Spectroscopes : one of Browning's two-prism spectroscopes ; and 
one of Vogel's small-star spectroscopes. 

(/) Chronograph: maker, Grubb; two barrels and controlled clock. 

{g) Clocks: one mean time; maker, Booth of DubUn : one sidereal; 
maker, Dent, London. 

(//) Chronometer : sidereal ; maker, M'Master. 

(/) Miscellaneous: The mean-time clock controls by electricity the 
clocks in the port and docks board and Trinity College, the distance 
being about five miles from Dunsink. 

Dunsink Observatory belongs to Trinity College, Dublin. An annual 
visitation of the Observatory is held every summer by the board of 
Trinity College. 

Observations during the past year (1880) : 

The meridian observations of red stars (commenced by Dr. Cope- 



68G EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

LAND ill 1875-187G, and taken up by Mr. Dreyer in September 1878)^ 
were finislied in the summer 1880, each star being observed four times 
or oftener. The reductions to the epoch 1875.0 were nearly finished by 
the end of the year. 

The south equatorial lias been employed entirely in observations for 
annual parallax by Dr. Ball. During 1880 a series for Groombiidge 
1G18 was completed, and from the distances of + 50°, 1724, a parallax of 
+ 0". 319G ± .052 has been concluded; for Gr. 1G18 a series for P III 
242, recommended by Struve (M.N. vol. xx, p. 8), gives a parallax of 
— 0".045 i O".07O {M.^., November, 1880). A series for Schj. 249 {a) 
(red stars) has been completed, but not reduced, and a series for fy 
Cephei and e 2480 have been commenced. The sweeping observations 
described in Dunsink Observations, Part III, have also been continued. 
Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

The meridian circle is proposed to be employed in a reobservatiou of 
ArGtELANder's southern zones, commencing with the zone — 15° to 
— 20°, and extending perhai^s a few degrees more south if it appears 
j)racticable. 

The equatorial is proposed to be employed in a continuation of the 
parallax observations, much of which work is at present in hands. 
Principal publications of the observatory: 

EoBERT S. Ball: Elements of Astronomy, London, 1 vol., 459 p. 

EoBERT S. Ball: On the Parallax of P III 242. M.X., November, 
1880. 

J. L. E. Dreyer : A record of the progress of astronomy during the 
year 1879. Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society. 



Dun Echt, Scotland. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9"' 40'' W. 

Latitude, 57° 9' 3G" N. 

Authority for longitude: Ordnance Survey; for latitude, observa- 
tions with a SiMMS alt-azimuth. The transit circle confirms the result 
within a fraction of a second. 

Astronomer : Ralph Copeland, Ph. I). 

Assistant : J. G. LoiiSE. 

Computer : H. J. Carpenter. 

General meelianic : T. Kirkwood. 

Messenger and meteorology reader : J. McPherson. 

Dun Echt Observatory, the property of the Earl of Crawford and 
Balearres (late Lord Lindsay), is on the estate of Dun Echt, about 13 
miles west of Aberdeen. 

Height above the sea, 4G4 feet to cistern of standard barometer. 



reports of astronomical observatoriks. 0^7 

Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circles: 1. Transit circle by Tugugiiton & Si:\ims; one 
movable aud oue fixed circle ; diameter .')(> inches divided to 5" ; 1(> 
microscopes (carried by 2 Alidade circles, 1 movable and 1 tixed), read- 
ing to l"-tentli by estimation; apertnre of object-glass <S,ij9 inches; 
6J-iuch collimators; 2i-inch axle telescope. 2. Eeversing transit with 
Vs for meridian and prime vertical, by T. Cooke & Sons; 4 inch 
object-glass. 3. Transit instrnment by Trougiiton & Snnis; 2','-inch 
object glass. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: 1, Ah azimuth, by Trotghton & 
SnoiS; 12 inch circles, divided to 5'; 4 microscopes, vertical and hori- 
zontal circles reading seconds and tenths by estimation. Horizontal 
circle movable. 2. Theodolite by T. Cooke & Sons. 3. Theodolite by 
Aprs. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: One lo.OO-iiich refractor by Grubb. Sev- 
eral sets of eye-pieces. Bitilar micrometer. ]\Ierz helioscope. Dawes 
solar eye-piece, 2, 3, 74 inch tinders. This telescope is controlled abso- 
lutely by the sidereal clock. Uriving-clock by T. Cooke & Sons, made 
to special design. 2. One 12.9-inch reliector 122.5 focus; mirror by 
Eev. H. Cooper Key English mounting. 3. One 12:^-inch reflector by 
Browning. Solar spectroscope. 4. One G.OG-inch refractor by Soims ; 
bifilar and double image micrometers, used generally for comet seeking. 
5. One G.04inch refractor by T, Cooke & Sons. Comi)lete. 0. One 
4-inch refractor by T. Cooke & Sons ; bitilar micrometer. Clock by 
EiCHENS. Complete. 7. One 3-inch refractor by T. Cooke & Sons; 
bifilar micrometer. Complete. 

{d) Sjjectroscopes : Large solar spectroscope with 1 whole and 2 half 
RUTiiERFURD prisms with reversion aud heliometer viewing telescope. 
Stellar spectroscope modified at Dun Echt (the one most used). Brown- 
ing 5-prism automatic solar spectroscope and 2 stellar ones; also Vogel 
spectroscope by Heustrell, and a variety of direct vision, quartz, aud 
other prisms. Besides the above-mentioned spectroscope there is a 
6-prism automatic reversing table instrument by Browning, aud a hand 
direct vision spectroscope used for Auror;e. 

(e) Photometer: Zollner astro-photometer by Ausfeld of Gotha. 

(/•) Chronographs: 1. 4-fold barrel-chronograph, each barrel to run 
6 liours, driven by the same clock as the 15.()<i-iuch equatorial. 2. Port- 
able fillet chronograph by Siemens. 

{fj) Clocl-s : 1. Sidereal clock, quicksilver compensation by Frodsiiam. 
2. Mean-time clock, quicksilver compensation by Molyneux. 3. Elec- 
tric clock, outside dial and time gun. 

(/() Chronometers: 1. Kullberg; mean time. 2. FARgUHAR; mean 
time 3 J Walker ; mean time. 4. Frodsuam ; mean tune 8-day. 
5. Walker; sidereal (electric contact). 0. Walker; sidereal. 7. 
McLennan ; -iV seconds ; pocket M. T. 

(0 Miscellaneous: 1. Metre: A copy of the metre des Conservatoiie. 



088 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Feoment. 2. Linear dividing engine by Froment. 3. Lineaj divid- 
ing engine by Elliott Brothers. 4. Photograpli measuring machine 
by Grubb. 5. Balance by Oertling. 6. Five 2-meter and one IO- 
meter bars. Grubb. 7. Two comparator microscopes and long stone 
table. 8. 10-inch wheel cutting engine ; Swiss. Jenssen & Hensen. 

(j) 1. Sprengel pump C end on and many Geissler tubes. 2. Air- 
pump and apparatus. 

(/(•) Various photographic apparatus. 

(Z) A large assortment of electrical and electro-magnetical apparatus. 
One standard and one marine barometer: Negretti & Zitmbra. Vari- 
ous thermometers. 7-inch spherometer, 1 part = jo J o o inch, to oVo o th by 
estimation; 4-inch spherometer ; both by Hilger. Arithmometer by 
Thomas de Colmar; C places. Arithmometer by Thomas de Col- 
mar; 10 places. Foucault siderostat by Eichens ; 16-inch mirror (and 
a spare one), silver in glass, by A. Martin. Silbermnnn heliostat by 
DuBOSCQ. Heliostat by Browning. King's barograph and anemo- 
graph by Casella. Binocular microscopes by Smith & Beck and 
Eoss. Polariscope by Ladd ; 10-inch, 6-iuch, and 4-inch induction coils 
by Aprs. A large collection of cut crystals ; also diffraction appara- 
tus by SCHWERD. 

The library is now getting to be xqyj large and fairly representative. 
It i§ rich in early editions of astronomical and mathematical writers. 
The departments of periodicals and learned societies are good ; the sec- 
tions of optics and comets are fine. No opportunity of adding to the 
collection is missed. It has been found necessary lately to provide about 
500 feet of additional shelving. 

Work done during the past year (1880): 

The work during 1880 has been chiefly cometary and spectrosco[)ic 
observations with the 15-inch refractor and determination of compari- 
son stars with the transit circle; Mars was compared with a Orionis 
and a Tauri with the astrophotometer. 

Some specimens of glass were tested with a spectrometer made from 
an old alt-azimuth instrument. 

The greater part of the time has been devoted to the reduction of the 
observations connected with Lord Lindsay's Transit of Venus Expedi- 
tion. These reductions are now approaching completion. 
Work proposed for 1881: 

The same class of work is proposed for 1881. 
Publications : 

Ko considerable works were published in 1880. Various i^apers were 
communicated to the " Astronomische Nachrichten " ; Monthly Notices 
of the "Boyal Astronomical Society," and ''Urania," besides which 13 
special circulars were distributed to all applicants. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. G89 

Durham, England. 

Observatory. 

fjongitude from Greenwich, G™ 19^8 W. 
Latitude, 54° 4G' G".2 N. 
Directors: T. Che vallier, 1840; 
G. A. GOLDNER, 1872, 
Founded by subscription in 1840. First observations made in 1842. 



DtJSSELDORF, Prussia. 
Sternicarte {formerlij named BiU:). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27'" 5^ E. 

Latitude, 51° 12' 25" N. 

Authority for hititude and longitude : "Astrouoinische Xachrichten" 
G43, and " Berliner Jahrbucli." 

Directors: J. F. Benzenberg, 1809; 
F. Brunnow, 1848; 
liOEERT Luther, 185.j, 

Established in 1809, by J. F. Benzenberg, the savant, who in 1844 
erected a more complete building at Bilk, Ir^ miles (two kilometers) 
south of the town. This estabJishmeut, liberally endowed by its founder, 
became the property of the town in 1847, and was enlarged by it in 1852. 
Xearly twenty of the mincn- planets have been discovered here. 

Instruments : 

(a) An old repetition circle of one foot, by the late Bat'mann, at 
Stuttgart, giving 10" of centesimal division. 

{b) Meridian transit instrument nuule by the late Emil Schkoeuier, 
at Diisseldorf, objective from Munich, focal distance 2 feet, aperture 2 
inches, little circle divided in half degrees, with nonius, one minute. 

(c) Xew equatorial instrument, made by Charles Bambercj, at Ber- 
lin, in use since September, 1877, objective by Dr. Sigmund Merz, at 
Munich, focal distance 7 feet, aperture 7 inches, magnifying powers of 
eyepieces 49 to 18S, Stars of the 11.5 magnitude can be seen with it. 
Old reserve tube with horizontal and verti(;al motion, made by Merz 
& Sons, at Munich, 1847, focal distance G feet, aperture 4.\ inches. Stars 
of the 11,0 magnitude can be seen with it. 

(n) Two old sidereal time clocks made by Utzsciineider & Frau- 
enhofer, at Munich. 

(/t) One mean-time chronometer by Kessels, at Altona, and a Swiss 
watch. 

Some small instruments of minor importance. 
S. Mis. 31 44 



690 reports of astronomical observatories. 

Observations during the past year (1880) : 
Besides the determination of clock errors there have been made at 
this Observatory, during the year 1880, 50 observations of 18 minor 
planets, and since 1818, 993 observations of 128 minor planets, published 
in the "Astronoraische Nachrichten." 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
It is intended to continue the observations and calculations of planets. 



Edinburg, Scotland. 
Boyal Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 12"» 43^05 W. 

Latitude, 55° 57' 23".'^ N. 

Directors: R. Blair, 1780; 

T. Henderson, 1833; 
C. P. Smyth, 1846. 

The old Observatory, founded by subscription in L776, was not com- 
pleted until 1792. No Observations were ever made there. The new 
observatory was projected in 1812, and erected on shares in 1818. The 
municipality donat.'d the ground. In 1834, the founders ceded its ad- 
ministration to the State, and in 1846 made over the ownership. Time 
signals have been given there since 1855. Since 1872, the firing of a 
cannon has been substituted for the former ball. • ■ 



Elsfleth, Germany. 
Observatorium der Xavif/ations Schule. 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: C. Behrmann, 1870. 



Florence, Italy. 

1. O.sservatorio Astronomico ; 2. Osservatorio del B. Museo. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 45'° 1^5 E. 
Latitude, 430 '40' 4".1N. 
Directors: F. Fontana, 1774; 

]). Di Vecchi, 1807; 

Del Ricco, 1815; (?) 
' G. Inghirami, 1818; 

J. L. Pons, 1829; 

G. B. Amici, 1831 ; 

G. B. DoNATi, 1864; 

\V. Tempel, 1873. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. G91 

The first Obserratory here was established by the Jesuits at San 
Gioraimiuo College, later called The L'cIhjioHs Schools (Seole Tie). A 
secoud was i)roposed by the government in 1774 as an annex to the 
Museum of Physics and Natural History of the Pitti Palace. It was 
built from 1777 to 1784, and afterwards the establishment was trans- 
ferred to the hill of Arcetri, where Galileo lived during the latter part 
of his life. 



Frankfurt a. M., Prussia. 
Pri va tc Obser va tory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Dr. Epstein. 



Geneva, Switzerland. 

Ohserratoire de Geneve. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 24™ 3G^77 E. 

Latitude, 46° 11' 58".8 K. 

Directors: J. A. Mellet Favre, 1772 ; 

M. A. PiCTET TURRETIN, 1790; 

J. F. T. Maurice, 1794 ; 

P. PiCTET, 1802 ; 

A. Gautier, 1819; 

L. F. Wartmann, 1832 ; 

E. Plantamour, 1840. 
Founded in 1771, completed in 1773. Octagonal structure built in 
great part at the expense of J. A. Mellet, upon a casemate of the Bastion 
Saint Antoine. In 1829 the representative council of the cantpn passed 
a resolution for the construction of a new Observatory to be built upon 
the same bastion not far from the old edifice. It is composed of a main 
building of one story, and of two lateral turrets with hemispheric domes. 



Genoa, Italy. 
Osservatorio della R. Universita. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director : i 



692 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Georgetown, British Guiana. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: ? 



Glasgow, Scotland. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Greeiiwicli, 17™ 10^G W. 

Latitude, 55° 52' 42".8 K 

Directors : J. P. Nichol, 1840 ; 
E. Grant, 1860. 

Commenced in 1818 at the expense of a society. Permanently or- 
ganized in 1840 with the help of a public subscriptiou, of one subsidy 
from the University and another from the State. In 1862 a special hall 
was added for an equatorial, which has an aperture of 9 inches: (0'".23.) 



GoTHA, Germany. 

Sternwarte, 

Longitude from Greenwich, 42™ 50^53 E. 
Latitude, 50° 56' 37".5 N. 
Directors: F. X. VON Zach, 1787 ; 

B. A. VON LiNDENAU, 1808; 
J. F. Encke, 1817 ; 
P. A. Hansen, 1825 ; 
A. Kruger, 1875. 
The first Observatory was erected in 1784 on the Seeberg (Lake Mount- 
ain) 1^ miles (two kilometers) from the town. One of the first mural cir- 
cles constructed to replace quadrants, made by Eaimsden, was mounted 
here. In 1853 a new Observatory^ was built in the Jiigerstrasse, not far 
from the ducal palace. 



GOTTINGEN, Prussia, 

Konigliche Sternwarte. 

* 

Longitude from Greenwich, 39™ 46«.24 E. 

Latitude, 51° 31' 47".9 K. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: "Berliner Yahrbuch," 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOKIES. G93 

Directors: J. A. Von Segner, 1735; 
J. Tobias Mayer, 1754 ; 

G. M. LORNITZ, 17G2 ; 
• A. G. Kastner, 1704; 
K. F. VON Seyffer, 1800; 
0. F. Gauss, 1807; 
Dr. E. F. W. Klinkerfues, 185G. 
Assisiant: D. IIeidorn, calculator. 

Founded in 1734, at the same time with the University, and located in 
one of the round towers of the ancient fortification, around which was 
built an exterior gallery. In 1811 the Observatory was transferred to a 
more suitable spot outside the southern gate- way of the town. This new 
building is on the plan of a rectangle, with the longer sides facing east 
and west. An addition is made by wings to the north, a cupola sur- 
mounts the central vestibule, and a terrace encircles the whole struct- 
ure. In 1818 the first meridian circle ever made and mounted in Europe 
was placed there. The maker was J. G. Repsold. 
Instruments: 
(a) Meridian circles : one made by Repsold, sr., of Hamburg; diame- 
ter of circle, 3 J feet, divided to 5' ; read by two microscopes to 1" ; aper- 
ture of objective 4^ inches (114'^"'); magnifying power ordinarily em- 
liloyed, 90 diameters: one made by Reichenbacii, of ]\[unich; diame- 
ter of circle 3 feet; divided to 3'; read by four microscopes to 0.24"; 
aperture of objective 4:^ inches (lOO'""'); magnifying power ordinarily 
employed, 50 diameters. 

{h) Meridian transit instrument: maker, Reichenbacii, of ^Munich; 
aperture, 4^ inches (110"'™); magnifying power, 75 diameters; (//) one 
portable, maker, Ertel, of Munich. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, Frauenhofer, of Munich; aper- 
ture of objective 2.9 inches (74™"^); magnifying power of eye-piece, 75. 
(c') Five telescopes: makers, 1st, Merz, of Munich; C feet long, aper- 
ture 5 inches; 2d, Steinheil, of Munich ; 5 feet long, aperture 4 inches; 
3d, DOLLOND, of Munich; 4 feet long, aperture 3i inches; 4th, Dol- 
LOND, of Munich; 3 feet long, aperture 3 inches; 5th, Plossl, of 
Vienna; 28 inches long, aperture 2::^ inches. Three comet-seekers: 
makers, 1st, Merz, of Munich; G inches aperture; 2d, Merz, of Mu- 
nich; 3 inches aperture; 3d, Voigtlander, of Brunswick; 2i inches 
aperture. 

(d) Spectroscope: by Merz, of Munich. 
(/) Chronograph: by Ausfeld, of Gotha. 

{g) Clods: one mean time; maker, Castens; two sidereal: makers, 
1st, Hardy, of London; 2d, Shelton. 

(h) Chronometers : four mean time; makers, 1st, Bertiioud; 2d, Sack- 
MANN; 3d and 4th, Knoblich; 5th, Hardy, sixtieth part of a second. 

(i) Miscellaneous: heliometer by Frauenhofer, of Munich ; theodo- 
lites, one by Reichenbach, two by Meyerstein; sextants by Cary, 



694 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

TKOuaHTON, PiSTOR, Steinheil, and Breithaupt ; two heliotropes 
by Meyerstein. 

Observations during the past year: 

(6) Observations on planets and comets. 

(c) Observations on comets with the six-foot refractor of Merz. 

Principal publication during past year, 1880, 1881. Prof. Dr. 
Klinkerfues: Tobias Mayer's grossere Mondkarte, nebst detailzeich- 
nungen, 13 Karten, mit Text. 



Greenwich, England. 

Royal Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 5^ 8™ 12^09 E. 
Latitude, 51° 28' 38".4 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : ]Srautical Almanac, Greenwich 
observations 1878. 

Directors: J. Flamsteed, 1G75; 
E. H alley, 1720; 
J. Bradley, 1742 ; 
K Bliss, 1762; 
X. Maskelyne, 1705; 
J. Pond, 1811; 

Sir G. B. Airy, K. C. B. (Astronomer Koyal), 1835. 
Chief assistant : W. H. M. Christie. 
First-class assistants: Edwin Dunkin; 
G. S. Criswick. 
Second-class assistants: A. M. W. Downing; 
E. W. Maunder; 
W. G. Thackeray; 
And one vacancy. 
Founded by royal statute on the 4th May, 1675. Built in the park at 
Greenwich by Christopher Wren, architect. At first it consisted 
merely of an octagonal tower. In 1860 Flamsteed put up an addi- 
tional wing to accommodate the mural sector, with the help of which he 
made his catalogue of stars. The board of visitors was created in 1710. 
In 1749 and the years immediately following great improvements 
and additions were made. The sector used by Bradley in discovering 
the phenomenon of aberration was transferred to Greenwich, and Bird 
supplied a mural quadrant with a radius of 7 feet 10^ inches (2™.4), 
besides remodeling the one made by Graham. A statute of 1765 con- 
firmed the right of supervision vested in the Royal Society and exer- 
cised by the board of visitors. In 1770 two revolving domes were con- 
structed upon the turrets, and these have served as models for all 
revolving turrets since constructed. In 1772 the first achromatic 
object-glass ever used at Greenwicii was attached to the south quad- 
rant. It had an aperture of 2| inches (68 millimeters). In 1779 the 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OHSERVATOHIKS. 095 

expediency of eiilarj;inj;- the merulian openings was ackiiowicdgcd; 
hitherto the ai)ei'tniu !uul only been G inches (0'" 15«). 

At the bogiuiiing of the present century it became necessary to rc- 
buikl the Observatory, atid the work, continuing until 1811, consisted in 
the construction of two rectangular buildings, the eastern one being the 
Observatory propei- and containing halls f»u' the nieridiau instruments, 
the library, and o1Vk;c, while t!ie western structure was intended for the 
dwelling-house of the supeiintendent. Jt was in one of these new halls 
that the first ukhIcI of a mural circle, .") feet (1'" .5) in diameter, con- 
structed by E. Trougiitox, was placed in 1812. 

The present orgaaization of Green v.ich Observatory dates from a royal 
statute of 1830. According to 1 he terms of this statute the board of 
visitors consists of the members of the lloyal Society, the members of 
the Astronomical Society, and the Oxford and Cambridge professors of 
astronomy. In 1811: the tirst altazimuth was set u]). It was designed 
by Airy, and made by Eansome & Merz and Troucjuton & Snnrs, 
being intended for lunar observations. 

As a finishing touch, the immense dome to the southeast was built in 
18.")9 for the reception of the equatorial of \V. Si-^iMS, with an object- 
glass, by G. Merz, having a focal length of Si feet 5 inches (1()'" .5) ; 
now used for spectroscoiiic work. 

The observations nuule annually at Greenwich have been published 
regularly since 17G5. In the first volume of this publictation we find tin? 
first notice of the illumination of the reticulation in a nunidian iustiu- 
meut by means of the axis of the spy-glass. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: one; makers, Ransomes & May (engiiuH>rs), 
TROUGnTON & SIMMS (opticiaus) ; diameter of cinde, 72 inches ; divided 
to 5' ; read by six microscopes to 0".00 ; four supplementary microscopes 
for determiuatiou of division errors and occasional use: aperture of 
objective, 8.1 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 
8.1; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 10") diameters. 

{b') Alt-azimuth : makers, Kansomes& May and W. Sim3IS ; aperture, 
4 inches. Magnifying i)Ower, 100; diameter of circles, 3 feet, divided 
to 5'. 

(e) Equatorial instruments : makers, RANSo:\rES & Snnis (engineers) 
TROUGnTON & SIMMS (opticians), Merz (obje(;tive) ; aperture of object- 
ive, 12.8 inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, GO to 1500. {&) Shcap- 
shanlch equatorial: makers, T. GRUBB,CAUcnoix, (objective); aperture 
of objective, G^- inches. Kaylor equatorial : maker, T. Cooke, of York; 
aperture, G inches. ShucJcburyh equator i<( I : makei', Ramsden; aperture, 
■4.1 inches. 

(</) ^Spectroscopes : half-prism spectroscope; maker, 11ilgj:r. Direct 
vision : one, two, or three compound " half prisms" with dispersioiiJS (A 
to H) of about 18AO, 83°, and 335°. JSingleprism stereoscope: Makers, 
Trougiiton & SIMMS; one flint prism. 



696 KEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(e) Photometer : Airy's double-image micrometer; makers, Trough- 
ton & SIMMS. 

(/) Chronograph : makers, E. Dent & Co. 

{g) Clocks : one meantime; makers, SnEPHERD & Son: one sidereal; 
makers, E. Dent & Co., Hardy, Arnold, Graham. 

(h) Chronometers : mean time ; makers, various. There are always on 
hand a large number rated for the navy ; some of these are used when 
necessary for the Observatory. Sidereal ; none of accurate character. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Photoheliograph ; maker, Dallmeyer; aperture of 
objective, 4 inches. Several portable telescopes ; aperture, 4 inches to 
2| inches. Five other 6-inch equatorials (packed in cases) returned 
from Transit of Venus Expedition, 1874. Five 3-inch portable transits 
by SIMMS ; one 14-inch alt-azimuth by Simms ; three 14-iucli altitude 
instruments by Sim3IS ; four photoheliographs by Dallmeyer (all re- 
turned from the Transit of Venus Expeditions, 1874). 

Observations during the past year and work proposed 
for the coming year (1881) : 

On all the points mentioned here very full information will be found 
in the " Introduction to the Greenwich Observations" and in the "As- 
tronomer Royal's Keport to the Board of Visitors ". 

Principal publications of the Observatory'^ during the 
YEAR 1880 : 

The following are included in volume of Greenwich observations and 
also jDublished separately : Greenwich observations for 1878, published 
in London (IT. M. Stationery office), 884 pages; Astronomical results; 
Spectroscopic and photographic results ; Magnetical and meteorological 
results; Introduction to Greenwich observations; Rates of chronome- 
ters on trial for purchase, 1879 ; Report of Astronomer Royal to board 
of visitors, 7 June, 1879 ; Spectroscopic and photographic results, 1879. 



Halifax, England. 
Bermerside Ohscrratory, iSMrcoaf. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director: ? 



Hamburg, Germany. 
Sternicartc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 39°* 53«.7 E. 
Latitude, 53° 33' 1" K 



REPORTS OF ASTKOXO.MR'AL OH.SKKVATORIES. 007 

Directors; MOSER, 1823; 

K. L. C. ElbiKER, 1830; 

Dr. Georg F. W. Kumker, 1803. 

Secretary: Dr. Carl Sciirader. 

Built by J. G. Eepsold, in 1810, upon a location near the Altona 
gate; destroyed by tlie rrenoli in 1813; rebuilt in 1825, throuo-h a leg- 
acy left by Grell, upon the site of the old ramparts, and still in the 
neighborhood of the Altona gate. It has a central hall for meridian 
instruments, and two wings surmounted by turrets. The east wing is 
used for a school of navigation. 



Helsingfors, Russia. 
Magnetnaia c Meteorologichesl-aia Obsercatoria, 

Longitude from Greenwich, T' 39^^ 49MG E.' 
Latitude, 00° 9' 43".3 N. 
Directors: F. W. A. Argelander, 1829; 
G. LUNDAHL, 1841 ; 
F. Waldstedt, 1852 ; 
A; Kruger, 1852. 
Founded in 1829, near the University, after the fire at Abo had de- 
stroyed the scientific instruments of that Finnish town. It was at Hel- 
siugfors that Argelander completed and published his famous cata- 
logue of the proper motions of the stars. This Observatory is the most 
northerly in the world (latitude 00° 9'). 



Ipswich, England. 
Orwell Park Ohserratory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 
Latitude, ? 



Director: 



Jena, Saxe- Weimar. 
Sternwarte. 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Directors: J. F. Posselt, 1820 ; 

L. SCHRON, 1852 ; 

E. Abbe, 1878. 
Built in 1820 in the same garden where Schiller wrote Wallenstein. 



698 REPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Kalocsa, Kungary. 

Kdlocsa Observatory, 

Longitude from Greenwich, *? 

Latitude, *? 

Director : ? 



Karlsruhe, Baden. 

Stermcarte. 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ^ 

Director; W.Yalentiner. 
Transferred from Mannheim in 1879. 



Kasan, Russia. 

Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 3^ IG-^ 28^9 E. 
Latitude, 55° 47' 24" .2 N. 
Directors : J. J. Littrow, 1814 ; 
J. M, SlMONOFF, 1816 ; 
M. LiAPUNOW (or Lepounoff), 184G ; 
M. KowALSKi, 1854. 
Founded in 1814 by the University. Constructed upon a very solid^ 
ancient structure ; square tower, 23 feet (seven meters) in height. The 
southern gallery adjoins a wooden shed at its west angle, which has a 
movable roof. The building, with a portion of the instruments, was 
burned on the occasion of a fire which destroyed part of the town on the 
5th September, 1842. Immediately restored. 



Kew, England. 

Kew Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1™ 15M W. 
Latitude, 51° 28' 6" X. 
Director : "? 



KEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. G99 

KiiARKOFF, Russia. (Charkow.) 

Obscrvatoria. 

Lougitiule from Grecuwicb, 2'' 21'" SIM E. 
Latitude, 50o 0' 10".2 N. 
Director: J. Fedorenko. 
Recently established. 



Kiel, rnissia. 
K'tJH igliclic SfeniKc'rle. 

Longitude from Greeuwieli, 40'" 35^.70 E. 
Latitude, 51^ 20' 29".7 :N'. 
Directors: C. A. F. Peters, 1873; 

' Prof. Dr. A. Krueger, 1880. 
Founded in 1873 by the transfer of the Observatory from Altoua. 
(See Altona.) 



KiEW, Russia. 

Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 2'" 0\G4 E. 

Latitude, 50° 27' ir'.l N. 

Directors : Feadorow, 1838 ; 

A. SCHIDLOFFSKY, 1855 ; 

M. K. Landricoff, 1872. 
Established in 1838 as an annex to the University 



Kilmarnock, Scotland. 
Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, "? 

Director : ? 



Kjobenhavn, Denmark. (Copenhagen.) 

Universitets Astronomislc Observatoritim. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 50"^ 19^2 E. 

Latitude, 55° 41' 13".G K 

Directors: C. LuMBORa (Latin, Longomontamis), 1037; 

T. Bartholin, 1G47 ; 

O. Eoemer, 1G81; 



700 KEPOKTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Peter I. Horrebow, 1714} 

C. Horrebow, 1753 ; 

T. BuGGE, 1777; 

H. C. Schumacher, 1815; 

VoN Caroc, 1822 ; 

C. F. E. Olufsen, 1832 ; 

H. d' Arrest, 185G; 

T.«^K Thiele, 187C. 
Assistants: Schjellerup; 

Pechule. 
Foimdetl in 1637, but only coaipleted in 1G5G. The first edifice was 
destroyed by fire the 20tli of October, 1728. The Observatory was re- 
established in the round tower belonging to the University. In 1820 
a wooden addition was made to it on the Holken bastion. Finally, in 
1857, it was reorganized and removed to the glacis of the fortress be 
tweeu'the citadel and the Osferthor (eastern gate). 



KoNiGSBERG, Prussia. 
TJniversitlits Sternicarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 21'" oS^.Ol E. 

Latitude, 54° 42' 50".6 ^\ 

Directors: Z. W. Bessel, 1811; 
A. L. BusCH, 1849; 
M. L. G. WiCHMANN, 186G ; 
Prof. E. Luther, 18G0. 

Constructed in 1811 on one of the most elevated points of the ram- 
parts to the northwest of the town. A main building divided into two 
great halls — a northern and a southern. Two wings — one the meridian 
hall, the other an addition. With the use of a meridian circle, made by 
Eeichenbach and Ertel, 0™ 97 in diameter, Bessel and his assistants 
accomplished the work known as the "Konigsberg Zones," giving the 
exact positions of G2,000 stars between the parallels of — 15° and + 45°. 

This great undertaking was begun 19th August, 1821, and finished 
January 21, 1833. 



Krakau, Austria. (Cracow.) 
K. K. Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, P 19™ 50^5 E. 

Latitude, 50° 3' 50" N. 

Directors: J. J. VON Littrow, 1807; 

J. Leski, 1811 ; 

M. Weisse, 1825; 

Prof. Dr. Francis M. Karlinsky, 1864. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIKS. 701 

Assistants: Dr. Daniel Wierzbicki; 
John Ralski. 

Established in 1807 as an annex to the University. Turned into a 
powder magazine by the French in 1809. Set up once more on a spot 
a little to the north of the first l)uilding. 



Kremsmunster, Anstria. 

i^itcrnicarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 50"' 32^ 2 E. 
Latitude, 48o 3' 23". 7 N. 
Directors : A. Desing, 1748 ; 

P. FlXLMILLNER, 17G1 ; 

T. Derfflinger, 1791; 

B. SCHWARZENBRUNNER, 1824 ; 

M. Roller, 1830; 

A. Reslhuber, 1847; 

G. Stresser, 1875. 
Founded in the convent of the Benedictines in 1748; built in the con- 
Aent garden at the northern extremity of the buildings. The Observa- 
tory consists of a'massive tower, eight stories bigh, with two wings of 
five stories. 



Kronshtadt, Russia. (Cronstadt.) 

3[orsla ia Astronom ichesM ia Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, '? 

Directors : V. Fuss, 1840 ; 

A. F. Grigorieff. 
Assistant: P. S. Shubin. 
Observatory of tbe school of pilots. Founded about 1840. 



Leipzig, Saxony. 

Universitdts Stermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49"> 34^ 02 E. 
Latitude, 51° 20' G". 3 N. 
Directors: C. F. Rijdiger, 1794; 

K. B. MOLLIVERDE, 1811 ; 

A. F. MOEBIUS, 181G; 

G. A. Jahn, 1845; 

C. C. Bruhns, 18G0. 
Constructed, from 1787 to 1794, upon the great tower of the castle of 
Pleissenburg. A new Observatory, situated at the extreme end of one 
of the suburbs, took the place of the old one in 18G1. 



702 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

LEMBERa, Austria. 
Observatory of the University m 



Leyden, Holland. 

Mijlis Ohservatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 17™ 50^35 E. 
Latitude, 52° 9' 20" N. 
Directors: J. GoLius, 1G32; 

S. C. Kechel, 1667; 

C. Melder, 1668; 

B. DE Volder, 1682; 

L. ZUMBACH DE KOESFELD, 1705j 

W. J. s'Gravesrude, 1717 ; 
J. LuLOFS, 1742 ; 

D. VAN DE WlJNPRESSE, 1768; 
P. NlEUWLAND, 1794; 

J. A. Fas, 1797; 

J. F. Van Beek-Calkoen, 1799 ; 

C. E. Kama, 1812 ; 
F. Kaiser, 1837 ; 

H. G. VAN DE Lande Bakhuijzen, 1872. 
Founded in 1632. The most ancient of existing Observatories in 
Europe. Originally built, as a great tower for tbe town clock, 1636. 
Enlarged in 1689. Repaired in 1817. In 1858 a new Observatory was 
commenced, and completed in 1860. 



I 



Leyton, Essex., England. 
Barclay Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 0^87 W. 

Latitude, 51° 34' 34". 

Authority for latitude and longitude, Ordnance Survey. 

Director : Charles George Talmage, F. R. A. S. 
Instruments : 

(«) Meridian circles : makers, Houghton and Simms ; diameter of cir- 
cles, 36 inches, divided to 5' ; read by 4 microscopes to 0". 1 ; aperture 
of objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun aperture employed, 4. 
inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, Cooke, York; aperture of objec- 
tive, 10 inches ; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 70 to 1200. 

{g) Clock: sidereal; maker, Simmonds, London. 



i 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 703 

Observations during the past year (1880) : 
(a) Cloclc stars. 

(c) Measures of binary stars, comets, eclipses, occultations, and satel- 
lite phenomena. 

Work proposed for the coming year (ISSl) : 
Satellites of Saturn, binary stars, comets, and occultations. 

Principal publications of the Observatory during the 
YEAR 1878 : 
C. G. Talmage, Leyton Astronomical Observations, vol. 4. London, 
127 pp. 

Additional information : 
The Observatory is provided with double and ring' microm- 
eters, Avitli an extra 3-inch telescope, and a small transit instrument. 



Lisbon, Portugal. 

Observatorio Astronomico da Tapada de Alcantara. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 3G™ 44^.68 W. 
Latitude, 38° 42' 31".3 N. 
Directors: G. B. Carbone, 1722; 

M. DO Espirito-Santo Limpo, 17 — ; 

P. J. M. CiERRA, 1806 ; 

M. V. DO CONTO, 1823 ; 

F. DA Sieve IRA, ; 

T. A. DoM, 1876. 
Established at the Jesuits' College, 1722 ; adopted by the state in 
1758. A new Observatorv was built in 1857. 



Lisbon, Portugal. 
Observatorio Astronomico na Escola Polytecnica. 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: ? 

For the instruction of students only. 



Lisbon, Portugal. 

Observatorio de Marinha. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 36"" 25" W. 

Latitude, 38° 42' 17".6 K 

Director: Francisco de PauXa Fegreira de Mesquita. 

Established in 1798. 



704 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Liverpool, England. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 12°' 17«.2 W. 

Latitude, 53° 24' 4'' K. 

Director : J. Hartnup, 1845. 

Founded in 1838 by the municipal council ; completed in 1848. Trans- 
ferred to Birkenhead, on the opposite bank of the Mersey, in 1867. It is 
provided with an apartment for the examination of chronometers, where 
the temperature can be raised by means of a gas heater, TJie equato- 
rial is moved hy clock-work, set in motion by hydraulic power. The 
time-signal is given to the shipi>ing by firing a cannon. 



London, England. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Mr. George Bishop. (Now discontinued.) 



London, England. 
Tulse Hill Observatory [ Upper Tulse Hill, London., S. W.]. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27^7 W. 

Latitude, 51o 20' 47" K 

Director: ? 

Founded, 1856. Altitude, 170 feet above level of the sea. 
Instruments : 

An equatorial instrument by Grubb, of Dublin, so constructed that 
either a refractor of 15 inches aperture and 15 feet focal length, or a 
Oassegrain reflector with metallic speculum of 18 inches aperture may 
be placed at jjleasure on the same equatorial mounting, so that with 
either instrument the circles read sufficiently for the finding of objects. 
The driving-clock has, in addition to the usual governor balls, a second- 
ary control of a pendulum in electrical connection with a standard 
clock. 

Up to 1870, when the present equatorial was erected, a transit circle 
of 34 inches aperture was mounted in the Observatory. At that time 
the principal instrument the Observatory contained was an 8-inch re- 
fractor by Alvan Clark, mounted equatorially by Cooke, of York. 

There is a fine sidereal clock by Arnold, and various spectroscopes 
for use with the telescopes on the sun and stars ; and there has been 



KEP0RT8 OF ASTRONOMICAL 015SERVAT0RIi:S. 705 

roecntl.v added a spectroseopo with Iceland s])ar prism and (jnaitz lenses 
for pliotoi;rapliy of spectra of stars. 

Underneath the Observatory are two rooms, one devoted to chemistry 
and photograpliy, tlie other to physical experiments in connection with 
spectrum analysis. 

Work in 1880: 

Coutinnation and conqjletion of a series of i)hoto<iraphs of spectra of 
various stars, llesearches in connection with these spectra. 

(See Philosophical Transactions of Eoyal Society of London, 1880, 
Part I, p. 609.) 



Lt TBE c K , G erm a ny. 
Sternicartc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 42"' 4;■)^o5 E. 
Latitude, 53o 5P 31". 2 :Nt. 

Director: -? 



Lund, Sn-eden. 
Lund Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 52'" 45^02 E. 

Latitude, 55o 41' 52".05 :N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: ITndersokning af Meridian 
cirkeln pfi Lunds Observatorium jemte bestamming af dentammas 
folhojd af And. Lindstedt. P>estimmung der Langeu-Ditferenz 
zwischen Berlin und Lund, auf telegraphischem Wege ausgefiihrt im 
Jahre 18(58. Ilerausgegeben von C. Bruhns. 

Directors : : 



A. Lidtgheen, 1786; 

,1815; 

J. M. AOARDT, 1847 ; 
Axel ]M<")LLER, profennoy of mtronomy. 
Assist a nfs : jST." C. DuNER, observer; 

F. EN(i.STR(br, cdiid. pMl. 
Founded irs a dependency of the University about 1760. Beorganized 
in 1866. 

Instruments: 
(«) MeriMuH cireJe: one; makers, A. & G. Eepsold, in Hamburg; 
diameter of circles, ;>!» inches (1 meter); divided to 2'; read by 4 micro- 
scopes to 0,1"; aperture of objective, 6.] inclies (163""»); magnilying 
power ordinarily employed, 173 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial iustruments: makers, G. & S. .^Ierz, in .Munich, and E. 
JiJNGER,in Copenhagen; aperture of objective, Di inches (245"'"'); mag- 
S. Mis. 31 45 



706 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES, 

nifyiug powers of eye-pieces, 80 to 1,300 diameters, (c') Makers, A. 
Steinheil, in Muuich, and E. JtJNGER, in Copenhagen j aperture of ob- 
jective, 4J inches (108™™); magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 16 to 200 
diameters. 

(d) Universal spectrosco2)e by G. & S. Merz, in Munich, with 3 sets of 
prisms a vision directe. {d') Simple spectroscope by Heustreu, in Kiel, 
constructed after the indication of Professor Vogel, in Potsdam. 

(f) Chronof/raph : one by Mayer & WoLF, in Vienna. 

(g) Clocks: sidereal time; one, maker, Kessels, in Altoua: one, 
maker, Tiede, in Berlin. 

(k) Ghronomeh'r : mean time; maker, Kessels, in Altona. 

[i) One universal instrument by Repsold, in Hamburg; 3 telescopes 
by DoLLOND, Merz, and Peossl. 

Observations during the past year (1880) 

(a) 11,859 positions of stars in the zone 31° 50' to 40° 10' of north 
declination. 

(c) (c') Measures of double stars; observations of comets; observa- 
tions of variable stars. 

{d) {d') Spectroscopical researches on red stars. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881): 

The same as in 1880. 
Principal publications of the Observatory during the year. 

Axel Moller: Ephemeride fiir Fayes Comet, published in the Ber- 
liner Jahrbuch, 1882. 

Axel Moller : Ephemeride fiir Pandora, published in the Berliner 
Jahrbuch, 1882. 

K. C. Duner: Ephemeride fiir Panopela, published in the Berliner 
Jahrbuch, 1882. 



Lyon, France. 
Astronomical and Meteorological Observatory, 



Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Director : C. Andre, 1877 ; 
M. Andre ; 

Assistant : M. GoNNESSiAT. 

There was an Observatory in existence in the eighteenth century at 
the Jesuit College, where Fathers Bonnet, Berauld, Lef^^vre, and 
Lapon ma<le observations. The new Observatory was founded in 1877. 

Instruments: 
(a) Meridian circle: maker, Eichens; diameter of circles, 23^ inches 
(0"'.00), divided to 5'; read by 4 microscopes to 0".l; aperture of object- 
ive, 6 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, C inches ; 
magnifying power ordinarily employed, 300 diameters. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 707 

{!)) Meridian transit instrument: maker, Kigaut; aperture, 2 inches- 
magnifyiug- i)ower, 150 diameters. 

{g) Clocks : two sidereal : makers, Br^gl'ET & R^dier, Paris. 

(/«) Chronometers: mean time; makers Breguet, Paris: sidereal- 
maker, Breguet, Paris. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1S81): 

The meridian circle is to be employed for zone observations. 



Madras, India. 

Madras Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 20'" 58^.4 E. 
Latitude, 13° 4' 8".l N. 
Directors : J. Goldingham, 1787. 

Warren (intermediate), 1805 j 

J. Goldingham, 1811; 

S. G. Taylor, 1830 ; 

W. S. Jacob, 1848 ; 

WoRSTER (intermediate), 1854; 

W. S. Jacob, 1855; 

J. P. Tennent, I860: 

K E. Pogson,18G0. 
Founded in 1787 by the East India Company. 



Madrid, Spain. 

Ohscrvatorio de Madrid. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 14'" 45^.4 W. 
Latitude, 40© 24' 30".K. 
Directors: J. Car on ado, 1790; 

J. EODRIGXTEZ, 1817; 

BaviA, 1821; 

D. FONTAN, 1835; 

Palo Maruz, 1850; 

A. Aguilar, 18G0: 
Established at Bueu Eetiro in 1790. When the French occupied 
Madrid in 1808, they set up a battery at that place and the instruments 
were destroyed by a flre. Tlie Observatory then abandoned was not 
restored until 1840. In 1852 the grounds were enlarged, and a pa xi lion 
with a revolving turret was erected. 



708 EEPOETS OF ASTEONOMICAL OBSEKVATOEIES. 

Manila, Philippine Islands. 
Observatorio del Ateneo Municipal. 
Longitude from Greenwich, ? 



Latitude, 14° 35' S. 



Directors: J. Vernacai, 1804; 

P. F. Faura, (?). 

Temporary installation in 1804. The institution J3ecame permanent 
about 1824. 



Mannheim, Baden. 

GrossJiersogliche Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 35°* 50^52 E. 
Latitude, 49° 20' 11" F. 
Directors: C. Marger, 1764; 

K. J. KoNia, 1783; 

J. K Fischer, 1786; 

P. Ungeschick, 1788; 

E. Barry, 1788; 

H. C. Schumacher, 1813; 

F. B. G. NicoLAi, ; 

A. M.Nelle, 1852; 

E. SCHONFELD, 1859; 

W. Valentiner, 1875. 
First established in the Electoral Castle of Schroetzingen, 6| miles 
(ten kilometers) from Mannheim, and in 1772 removed to the west of the 
town, where it was located in a tower 105 feet (32 meters) in diameter, 
with remarkably thick walls. In operation from 1794 to 1801. Trans- 
ferred recently to Karlsruhe. ( See Karlsruhe.) 



Marburg, Germany. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 35™ 5^ E. 
Latitude, 50o 48' 46".9 N. 
Director : ? 

Marseille, France. 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 21'» 34^64 E. 
Latitude, 43° 18' 19".l N. 
Directors : A. F. Laval, 1702; 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 709 

E. Perenas, 1728 ; 

G. Saint Jacques de Stlvabelle, 1764; 

J. J. C. Shulis, 1793 ; 

Blanpaise, 1811; 

J. F. A. Gautbart, 1822; 

B. Valz, 1835; 

E. Stephan, 18(58. 
The Society of Jesus had an Observatory at their College of Sainte 
Croix, founded 1702. In 1749 this scientific institution was taken in 
hand by the Ministry of Marine. It is a three-story building, longest 
from east to west, erected on the summit of the Butte des Moulins. In 
1797 this Observatory was repaired. A new establishment was erected 
in 1869 on the hill of Longchamps, to supplement the work at the Paris 
Observatory. The instruments are distributed in separate apartments. 



Melbourne, Victoria. 
Melbourne Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich 9'> 39"> 54«.8 E. 

Latitude, 37° 49' 53".3 S. 

Director: R. L. J-. Ellery, F. E. S., F. R. A. S. 

Proposed first in 1853, and established, to begin with, at Williamstown 
Transferred to Melbourne in 1861. Building completed in 1863. In 
1870 there was mounted, in a building set apart for the purpose, Grubb's 
great Cassegrain Eeiiector, with a focal length of 28 feet (8"\54), and an 
aperture of 4 feet (1".22). 



Mendon {Paris), France. 
Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : J. Janssen, 1875. 

Observatory of Physical Astronomy in the park at Mendon. Instru- 
ments mounted in temporary buildings in 1875. There are photographs 
of the sun taken regularly at this place. 



Mexico, Mexico. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 6'' 36" 20^67 W. 

Latitude, 19° 26' 1".3 N. 

Director: F. Jimenez. 

Founded in 1877 at 19^ 26' north latitude. 



710 KEPORTS OF ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATOEIES. 

MiLANO, Italy. 

B. Osservatorio Astronomico di Br era 

Longitude from Greenwich 36°^ 45« .97 E. 
Latitude 45° 27' 59" .2 Is\ 
Directors : L. LAGRANGE, 1763 ; 

F. Eeggio, 1777 ; 

B. OriAni, 1804 ; 

F. Carlini, 1833 ; 

G. V. SCHIAPARELLI, 1862. 

In 1760 a telescope of 33 feet (10 meters) focal distance was mounted in ' 
the College of the Brera by P. Bovio and D. Gerra. The Observatory- 
proper was founded in 1763. In the beginning it consisted of an octag- 
onal structure to which, in 1775, two side towers were added. This Ob- 
servatory has published its Ephemeris for one hundred years, 1775 to 
1874. 



MODENA, Italy. 

Osservatorio. 

Longitude from Greenwich 43™ 42^8 E. 
Latitude, 44° 38' 52". 8 N. 
Director : ? 



MONTCALIERI, Italy. 
Osservatorio del B. Collegio G. Alberto. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 
Latitude, — 



°? 



Director : f 



I 



MONTSOURIS {Paris), France. 
Observatoire de Montsouris. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9'" 20^68 E. 

Latitude, 48° 49' 18" K. 

Directors: E. Mouchez, 1875. 
Dr. Marie Davy, 

Assistant : Alfred de Vaulabelle. 

Founded iu 1875 as an Observatory for students by the Department 
of the Marine, in the southwest corner of the Park of Montsouris at 
the southern extremity of Paris. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 711 

IMoscow, Rttssia. 
Ohserratonj of the Imperial University. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 30'" 1G».9 E. 

Latitude, 5r>o'4ry 10".8 X. 

Authority for latitude and louj;itude: Xautical Almanac. 

Directors : Krassiluskow, 1750 ; 

C. F. GOLDBACH, 1804; 
Fischer, 1801 ; 

D. Perevotschikoff, 1824; 
A, Draschnosoff, 18 — ; 
K. S. SciiWEiZER, 185G; 

Prof. Dr. Theodore Bredichin, 1876. 
Assistants: W. Ceraski; 

A. Belopolsky; 

A. SOCALOFF. 

Founded in 1753 as an annex to tbo University. A new building was 
put up in 1804 in Bielogorod. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: one; maker, Repsold, in Hamburg; diameter 
of circle, 36 inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to 0.1"; ai)er- 
ture of objective, 5.3 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 
100 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, Merz, in Munich; aperture of ob- 
jective, 10.7 inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 100 to 1200. {c') 
Photoheliograph of Dalmayer, in London. 

(d) Universal spectroscope of Merz, in Munich ; direct vision with 
10 prisms and micrometer. 

{e) One photometer of Zollner. 

(/) Chronograph: of Siemens and IIalske. 

\g) Cloclis: mean time, two: makers, Tiede, Utzschneider: sidereal, 
two ; makes, Kessels, Tolstoi. 

(/<) Chronometers: mean time, two; maker, Dent: sidereal, two; 
makers, Dent, Kessels. 

(i) Miscellaneous : transportable transit instruments, theodolites, uni- 
versal instruments, &c. 

Observations during the past year (March to December, 
1880): 

(a) Small planets. 

(c) Comets; Jupiter; spectroscopic observations of the sun. 

((/) Sun and comets. 

(e) Photometrical observations of stars. 

(i) The practical instruction of the students of the University. 

Work proposed for the comino year (1881): 
The same as in the year 1880, and the investigation of tlie gravity at 
Moscow with the reversion pendulum constructed by Kepsold. 



712 eepokts of astkonomical obsebvatoeies. 

Principal publications of the Observatory during the 
TEARS 1874-1880: 
Piofessor Bredichin, "Annales de I'Observatoire de Moscow," vols. 
I, II (parts 1 aud 2), III (parts 1 and 2), lY (parts 1 and 2), Y (parts 1 
and 2), YI (parts 1 and 2), YII (part 1). 
Additional information : 
The clock-work of the equatorial is out of use, and generally the means 
of the Observatory for scientific works and for their publications are 
very insufficient. 



MtJNCHEN, Bavaria. 
Konigliche Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 40™ 26M3 E. 

Latitude, 48° 8' 45".5 ¥. 

Directors : K. F. von Seyffer, 1809 ; 

J. VON SOLDNER, 1823; 

J. VON Lamont, 1834 (1). 
Founded in 1809, on the hill of Bogenhausen, near Munich. A main 
building of one story, facing east and west; two wings extend toward 
the north. An edifice designed for the purpose was put up in the gar- 
den for a great refractor, by the ?iid of which Lamont made his observa- 
tions of the satellites of Saturn and of the nebulee. 



Munich, Bavaria. 
See Miinchen. 



Munster, Prussia. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ! 

■Director: E. Heis, 1852. 

Founded in 1852, in the neighborhood of the Academy (High School). 
It was here that Heis pursued his extended researches into the nature 
of shooting stars, the zodiacal light, and uranometry. 



Naples, Italy. 
See Ifapoli. 



REPORTS ,0F ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 713 

Napoli, Jtahj. 

R. Osserraiorio, Capo di Monte. 

Longitude from Greeinvicli, 57'" OM) E. 
Latitude, 40o 51' 45".4 X. 
Directors: Gr. Caseli.a, 1701; 

F. M. DA Peauo, 1808; 
F. TUCCARI, 1812; 
C. Brioschi, 1818; 
E. Capocci, 1833; 

Del Ee, 1849; 

A. DE Gasparis, 1804. 
Proposed in 1788. The buildings begun at tlie northeast corner of 
the Palace of the Library (Palazzo della Biblioteca) and Royal Museum 
(Museo Eeale) were left incomplete in 1790. In 1809 one of tlie towers 
of the old Convent of San Gandisso was appropriated to tliis object. 
In 1812 was laid the first stone of a new Observatory on tlie hill of 
Miradois, at the point called Capo di Monte. The instruments were 
mounted in 1819. Seven asteroids have been discovered at this Observa- 
tory. 



Neuchatel, Switzerland, 
Ohservatoire Cantonale. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27"^ 50^.2 E. 

Latitude, 40° 59' 51" :N". 

Director : A Hirsch, 1858. 

Founded in 1857. A rectangular structure of 8Si feet by 20i feet 
(27 by 8 meters), and 19 J feet (0 meters) in height; a tower with a re- 
volving turret. 



NicOLAiEV, Eussia. 
NicoloevsJcaia Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 7'" 54M E. 

Latitude, 46° 58' 20".6 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: for latitude, K. Knorrb, "As- 
tron. Nachr.," vii,261; for longitude, telegraphic determination of 1877, 
not yet published. 

Directors: K. F. Knorre, 1821 ; 

J. KORTAZZI, 18 — . 

Founded in 1821; completed in 1826. 



714 EEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

INSTRUIMENTS : 

{a) Meridian circle: maker, Ertel, in Munich; diameter of circle, 38 
inches; divided to 3'; read by four microscopes to 1"; aperture of ob- 
jective, 4.2 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 100 diame- 
ters. 

(c) Uquatorial instrument: makers, Eepsold & Sons, in Hamburg; 
aperture of objective, 9 J inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 100, 
150, 330, 476, 0G6. 

(/) Chronograph : one of Herbst, in Pulkowa. 

{g) ClocJcs: one mean time; maker, Kessels, No. 1282: one sidereal; 
makers, Barraud, j^o. 769, and Hohvin, jSTo. 24. 

(h) Chronometers : mean time, 89, of different makers: sidereal, 3, of 
diflterent makers. 

[i) Miscellaneous : one transi)ortable transit instrument of Herbst, 
in Pulkowa, for the determination of time in the vertical of Polaris; 
aperture, 2.7 inches; magnifying power, 100. 

{k) One transportable verticle circle, 11 inches; aperture, 1.9 inches; 
circle divided to 4'; read by 2 microscopes to 2". 
Observations during the past year: 

(c) Comets, Schaberle, Hartwig, Faye; Jupiter's satellites and spots. 

(i) Determinations of clock corrections for the investigation of the 
rates of the naval chronometers. Determination of the coefficients of 
compensation of the chronometers. 

Principal publications of the Observatory during the 
year 1880 : 

T. KoRTAzzi : Beobachtungen des Comet 1880 C, published in the 
"Astronomische Nachricliten," vol. 97, p. 335. 

T. KoRTAzzi: Sur les taches de Jupiter, published in the "Bulletin 
de I'Academie Imperiale de St.-Petersbourg." 

T. KoRTAzzi: Tables of W. Thomson for the facilitation of Sumner's 
method at sea, edited in an altered form (Russian). 



KoTTiNGHAM, England. 
Alexandria Parle Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Director: ? 



Odessa, Russia. 

Sternicarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2^ 3" 2«.3 E. 
Latitude, 46° 28' 36" N. 
Director: ? 



KEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 715 

Ofen, a nstria-Hungary. 

(Budapesth) Stern icarte. 

Longitude from Greeiiwicli, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Directors : J. Pasgnich, 1804 ; 

P. TiTTEL, 1824; 

,1831; 

L. Mayer, 18G0 (!). 
Founded upon tlie "Blocksberg" in 1803. 



0-Gyalla, Hungary. 

AstroPhysiMUsches Ohservatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^^ 12'" 45«.59 E. 
Latitude, 47° 52' 43".4 N. 
Director : ■? 



Olmutz, Austria. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, lb 9^ 2« .6 E. 
Latitude, 49o 35' 43" N. 
Director: *? 



OxPORD, England. 

Oxford University Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5"^ 0'^ .4 W. 
Latitude, 51° 45' 34".2 N. 
Director: O. Pritchard, 1873. 
Founded in 1873. 



OxTORB, England. 
Radcliffe Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5™ 2^0 W. 
Latitude, 51° 45' 3G" K. 
Directors: T. Hornsby, 1771; 

A. EOBERTSON, 1810; 



716 REPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

S. P. EiGAUD, 1827; 

M. J. Johnson, 1839; 

E. Main, 1860; 

E. J. Stone, 1878. 
Founded in 1772, with the help of a legacy from Radcliffe. The 
ground was donated by the Duke of Marlborough. ' Time has been 
noted by means of a chronograph since 1858. 



Padova, Italy. 
Osservatorio Astronomico delV Universita. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 47"^ 29M3 E. 
Latitude, 45° 24' 2".5 I^. 
Directors: G. Toaldo, 1761; 

V. Chiminello, 1797; 
G. Santini, 1813; 
G. LORENZONI, 1877. 
Founded in 1761 by the Venetian senate, and accommodated in a 
massive tower built in the thirteenth century by the tyrant Ezzelino 
for a state prison. 



Padua, Italy. 
See Padova. 



Palermo, Italy. 

R. Osservatorio. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 53™ 25^ E. 
Latitude, 38° 6' 44" N. 
Directors : G. PiAzzi, 1787 ; 

N. Cacciatore, 1817 ; 
G. CacciATORE, 1842; 
D. Ragona, 1858; 
G. Cacciatore, 18G0. 
Proposed in 1786. Established in the Saint Ninfa tower of the Royal 
Palace, the ancient residence of the Emirs during the Arabian domin- 
ion. The first complete vertical circle made by Ramsden, and finished 
in 1789, was mounted in this Observatory. PiAzzi used it from 1792 to 
1813, for the observations which served him as a basis for his famous 
catalogue. Ceres was discovered at Palermo on the first day of the 
nineteenth century. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 717 

Paramatta, New South Wales. 

Faramatta Ob.servatori/, (See Sydney.) 

Lougitnde from Greenwich, 10'' 4'" 6^.2 E. 
Latitude, 33° 48' 4y".8 X. 
Director: '? 



Paius, France. 

Obserra toire Rationale. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9'" 21«,02 E. 
Latitude, 48° 50' 11".8 K 
Directors : J. D. Cassini, 1<>71; 
J. Cassini, 1712; 

C. F. Cassini (de Thury), 1756; 
X D. Cassini (de Thury), 1784; 
J. J. L. DE La Lande, 1795; 

P. Mechrin, 1801 ; 
A. Brunard, 1804; 

D. F. J. AraCtO, 1811; 

IT. J. J. Le Yerrier, 1853; 

C. E. Delaunay, 1871; 

TJ. 3. J. Le Verrier, 1872; 

E. MoucmEZ, 1878. 

National Observatory (formerly Eoyal, since Imperial) built in 10G7 
under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences, according to plans of 
C. Perrault. a vast central hall; two towers, east and west. In 
1732, a small room to accommodate a mural quadrant was added beyond 
the eastern tower, and in 1742 this was extended by a second enclosure 
for a moveable quadrant. In 17G0 a tiuTet with a revolving roof was 
built to the south of this addition. The main building having become 
dilapidated was restored in 1780 — completed 1793 — since when it has 
been detached and the south terrace built. In 1832 the small room^ 
where observations are taken were repaired, and the amphitheater 
and a rotunda with a revolving roof built upon the principal terrace. 
The dome intended for the shelter of the great equatorial was i)laced 
on the summit of the building in 1850. The great telescope with a mir- 
ror of silvered glass — 4 feet (1»'.2) in diameter — was mounted in 1876, in 
a building on the ground-floor level. John Dominic Cassini discov- 
ered four of the satellites of Saturn at the Paris Observatory, and also 
first investigated the subject of the Zodiacal Light, and here, too, the 
great grandson of this astronomer was the first to follow the variations 



718 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

of tlie magnetic needle with minute and persevering industry ; and 
it was here that Arago aud Mathieu demonstrated the extremely 
small parallax of the stars. 

A large number of astronomical manuscripts, containing matter of 
great interest, are preserved at the Paris Observatory. 



Paema, Italy. 

it. Osservatorio Astronomico. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: *? 



Parsonstown, Ireland. 
Lord Bosse's Observatory. 
See Birr Castle. 



PoLA, Austria. 

Kaval Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 55"^ 23^18 E. 
Latitude, 44^ 51' 49" Is^. 
Director : J. Palisa, 1872. 

Founded in 1872. More than a dozen minor planets have been dis- 
covered here. 



Port Louis, Mauritius. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: ? 



Potsdam, Brussia. 
Astro-BhysiJcaUsches Institut. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 52™ 17^ E I 

Latitude, 52° 22' 56" N. 1 

Director : ? 

Observers : Sporer, VoaEL, and Lohse. 

Built upon a hill adjoining the Park at Potsdam. Opened in 1879 
under the auspices of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 710 

PouLKOVo, R2issia. 
Nicolaevslcaia Glavnaia Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 1'" IS^'OT E. 

Latitude, 59° 46' 18".7 X. 

Directors: F. W. G. von Struvk, 1834; 
O. VON Struve, 18G4. 

Founded in 1834. Tiiree])rin('ipal halls on the ground floor, the east- 
ern one being used for the meridian (;ir<*le, the western one for the merid- 
ian telescope, and the southern one occupied by the prime vertical. 
Three revolving domes, the central and largest containing Mkrz and 
Mahler's Refractor, which has a focus of 23^ feet (7™.l) and an aper- 
ture of 15^ inches (0'".40). A very rich astronomical library. The most 
elaborate and minute researches on the minor corrections of spherical 
astronomy, notably' the corrections of aberration of nutation and pre- 
cession, have been made chiefly at this Observatory. 



Prague, Austria. 
K. K. Unirersitdts Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 57"^ 41^4 E. 
Latitude, 50° 5' 18".8 N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Al. David and J. Bohm. 
Directors: J. Steppling, 1751 5 
) A. Struadt, 1781; 

A. David, 1799; 
A. BiTTNER, 1836; 
K. Kreil, 1845; 
C. Jelinek, 1851; 
J. G. Bohm, 1855; 

Dr. C. HoRNSTEiN, Pro/e6-sor of Astronomy ^ 1872 (?) 
Assistants: Dr. A. Seidler ; 
Dr. G. Beck A ; 
Dr. W. EosiCKY. 
Tyciio Brahe had some astronomical instruments temporarily 
mounted at Prague (1600-1001). The Observatory, properly so called, 
was not erected until 1751, in the Altstadt quarter, at the Collegium 
Clementinium, under the direction of the Jesuits. 
Instruments : 
{a) Meridian circle: one: maker, CiiR. Starke (Mechanical work- 
shop of the I. K. Polytechnic Institute in Viemna); diameter of circle, 
36 inches; divided to 3'; read by 4 nonius to 2"; aperture of objective, 
4 inches. 



720 EEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: maker, Che. Staeke; aperture, 4 
inches: (h') maker, Schrottee ; aperture of objective, 3 inclies. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: makers, C A. Steinheil's Sons, in 
Munich; aperture of objective, G inches; magnifyinj>- powers of eye- 
pieces, 50, 84, 253, 420, 672. (c') makers, Utzsciineider & Feaun- 
HOFEE, Munich ; ajjerture of objective, 3 inches. 

((/) Spectroscopes : one; G. & S. Meez, Munich; one small star spec- 
troscope; makers, CI. «& S. Meez, Munich. 

(/) Chronograph: one; Dr. M. HiPPS, Neuchatel, maker. 

{(j) Clods: meantime; makers, Lepaute, Paris; sidereal; makers^ 
J. BozEK, Prague. 

(/<) Chronometer : mean time; maker, Baeeaijd. 

(i) Miscellaneous: one sextant; maker, Tycho Beahe; one octant; 
maker, Tvcno Beahe; one large (Hohen EJreis), by Tegughton, in 
London. 

Observations dueing the past yeae (1880): 

No astronomical observations were made during the year. 

WOEK PEOPOSED FOE THE COMING YEAE (1881): 

It will be impossible to make astronomical observations during the 
coming year. 

PeINCIPAL publications of the ObSEEVATOEY DUEING THE 
YEAE 1880: 
Magnetische und Meteorologische Beobachtungen im Jahre 1879, 
40ter Jahrgang, 4to, (vol. xviii of series). 
Additional infoemation: 
The two meridian instruments (a) and {b) have not been used for half 
a century, for want of a suitable meridian room, and have been stored 
away in boxes. 

The two equatorial instruments, (c) and (c'), though mounted, are not 
being used for observation purposes, "owing to the absence of a movable 
cupola, but are employed in the lectures on practical astronomy. 

No astronomical observations whatever can be made in the present 
condition of the old Observatory. 



PuLKOWA, Russia. 
See PoulJiovo. 



Quebec, Canada. 

Observatory, 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4^' 44™ 49^3 W. 

Latitude, 46© 48' 17".3 N. 

Director: E. D. ASHE, 1863. 

Built in 1863 on Bonner's Hill, near Quebec. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 721 

Quito, Ecuador. 
Ohservatorio del Colegio Nacional. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: J. B. Menton, 1874. 
Founded in 1874. 



Rio DE Janeiko, Brazil. 

Naiifical Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2*^ 52™ 41«.41 AV. 
Latitude, 22° 54' 23".8 S. 
Directors : A. M. de Mells, 1850 ; 

E. LiAis, 1871. 
Founded in 1780. Eestored in 1871. 



EoMA, Italy. 

B. Osservatorio Astronomico del CoUegio Rojnano. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49™ 54^7 E. 
Latitude, 41° 53' 53".7 N. 
Directors : G. Asclepi, 17G4 ; 

G. Calandeelli, 1773; 

S. Dumonchel, 1824; 

F. DE ViCO, 1838; 
A. Lecchi, 1849; 

G. S. Ferrari, 1878; 
P. Tacchini, 1879. 

Before the establishment of a reguhir Observatory a succession of 
astronomers, more or less famous, made use of temporary accommoda- 
tions. In the buildings of the old college Clavius made observations 
with a zenithal sector in 1572, and following years. Scheiner col- 
lected the materials for his famous Bosa Ursina, the printing of which 
was completed in 1G30 at the new college, west of tlie Church of St. 
Ignatius. There, too, Gottignier and Borgondio made occasional 
observations. Maire observed the comet of 1844 at the English Col- 
lege. BoscoviCH fixed himself in the principal hall of the Kircher 
Museum. Finally, Asclepi organized a permanent establishment in 
1704 ; and in 1787 a scpiare to^Vcr was built to accommodate the Ob- 
servatory at the eastern angle of the College facade on via del Gesii. 
A new building was put up in 1853, having for substructure the enor- 
mous piles which had been intended to support the dome of the Church 
of St. Ignatius. 

S. Mis. 31 4G 



722 KEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

EOMA, Italy. 

Observatory of the Capitol. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Directors: G. Calandrelli, 1824; 

A. CONTI, 1827; 

I. Calandrelli, 1841; 

L. Eespeghi, 1806. 
Established in 1824 upon the east tower of the Capitol, which is built 
above the ancient Forum. 



EuGBT, England. 

Observatory of Rugby School. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, 1 

Directors: J. M. Wilson, 1872; 

G. M. Seabroke, 1878. 
Pounded in 1872. 



EuGBY, England. 

Temple Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director: J. M. Wilson. 



San Fernando, S2}ain. 

Instituto y Observatorio de Marina de San Fernando. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 24°^ 49'*.6 W. 
Latitude, 36° 27' 41".5 ii. 
Directors : E. Armesto, 1797 ; 
J. O. Canelas, 1798; 
J. T. Cerquero, 1825; 
S. MoNTOJO, 1851 ; 
F. de p. Marquez, 1855; 
C. PujAZON, 1866. 
An Observatory had been first established at Cadiz in 1753, upon an 
ancient Eoman tower, but was soon abandoned, observations being 
made there only from 1773 to 1776, by Tofino and Varela. The new 
Observatory was built at San Fernando in 1797. This is the most 
southerly astronomical establishment in Europe. (Latitude 36° 28'.) 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 72 o 

Santiago, Chile. 
Observatorio Xaclonal. 

Lou«itu(le from Grceuwich, 4^^ 42'" 42^4 W. 

Latitude, 33° 26' 42'' S. 

Directors : E. G. ]\Iae,sta, 1852 ; 
J. I. Vekgaea, 1861. 

Proposed in 1852. The instruments and buildings wliicli liad lieon 
used for tlie temporary [N^aval Observatory of the Tnited States at Santa 
Lucia, under Lieutenant Gillisw, were purchased as a beginning, and 
in 1856 the construction of a permanent Observatory was undertalcen, 
consisting simply of a one-story edifice and central dome. The equip- 
ment has been added to gradually since 1859. 



• St. Petersburg, Russia. 

Ohscrvatoria Akademii Xaul'. [Ohscrrafory of the Academy of Sciences. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' l-^^ 13^5 E. 
Latitude, 59° 56' 29".7 K 
Directors: J. X. De L'Isle, 1747; 

P. Inschodzow, 1768 ; 

E. Barry, 1794; 

V. WiSNICROSKY, 1811; 

A. SAwiTScn, 1856. 
Pounded in 1747. 



ScnwEEiN, Germany. 

Stcrmcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 45™ 40^7 E. 
Latitude, 53° 37' 38" .2 N. 
Director: "? 



Senftenberg, Germany, 

Stermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 5'" 50^6 E. 
Latitude, 50° 5' 10".l N. 
Director: ■ ? 



724 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Speyer, Bavaria 

Stermcarte des Koniglichen Lyceum. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33"' 45^6 E. 
Latitude, 49° 18' 55".4 IsT. 
(No longer in operation.) 



Stockholm, Stveden, 



Observatory, 



Longitude from Greenwich, 1^ 12™ 14^ E, 

Latitude 59° 20' 33" K. 

Directors : P. V. WargeiSi tin, 1750 ; 

H. NiCANDER, 1776 5 

J. SOANBERG, 1803 J , 

S. A. Cronstrand, 1828 j 
X. H. Lelander, 1858 ; 
Hugo Gylden, 1871. 
Assistants : Aroid Lindhagen ; 
Freyold Eancken. 
Founded in 1750. Here Wargentin made that long series of obser- 
vations on Jupiter's satellites which resulted in the first reliable tables 
of eclipses of these satellites. 

Instruments : 
{(t) Meridian circle : makers, Brtel & Son ; diameter of circle, 18 
inches 5 divided to 3' ; read by 4 microscopes to 1" ; aperture of object- 
ive, 4i inches (0.107 meters) ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 
124 diameters. 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: maker, A. Eepsold; aperture, 2^ 
inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : maker, A. Eepsold; aperture of objective, 
7 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-ineces, 114, 150, 190, 302, GOO. 

(/) Chronographs : two. 

({l)Cloc1cs: meantime; makers, Molyneux«& Cope; sidereal; makers, 
Kessels, Sweder. 

[h) Chronometer: meantime; makers, Dent, Linderoth. 

The following is a translation of portions of a report made by Mr. 
Hugo Gylden in the " Vierteljahrsschrift der Astronomischen Gesell- 
schaft," 15ter Jahrgang, 2ter Heft : 

Mention has been made in former rejiorts of two extensive series of 
observations for the jnu^iose of, firstly, to redetermine all the bright 
stars between 45° N. declination and the K^orth Pole, which are accessi- 
ble to our instrumeuts ; and, secondly, to furnish a contribution to the 
knowledge of the mean distances of stars. 



RErORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 72") 

Tliis redetermination will result in the formation of a catalogue of 
1,210 stars, in which the positions will he laid down with a prohal. It- 
error of about ^ second in each co-ordinate (tlie rectaseension i»roh;il.ly 
more accurate). Most of the required observations were made by Mr. 
LiNDiTAGEN, and the series is nearly conii)lete. The second series, 
unfortunately, will have to be delayed, owiuii^ to necessary repairs of 
the meridian circle, which exhibits trac<'s of old a.ue. - - •• 

From the results obtained by comparison in diiforent positions, the 
the probable error of a single declination determination is estimated as 
0".5 to 0".C, which may be still reduced. 

Up to the present time the polar distances have been coiiii)uted tem- 
porarily from observations of the Jfautical Almanac stars, with a].i)lica- 
tionof the dechnation estimated hi the fundamental catalo.mie for zone 
observations in the N. sky. Predominating^, though not exclusive, use 
havino- been made of extreme northern stars, it is presumable tiiat the 
uidcnown inclination of the instrument has exerted quite an intluence on 
the results obtained. It is, however, evident from the coincidence of the 
polar positions obtained in both situations of the ol)jective and ocular 
that the inclination coefficient, Avhich appears as multiidied by the sine 
of the zenith distance, cannot be very large. - - - 

The second series is intended to furnish a contribution to the knowl- 
edge of the mean distances of the stars. Mention of this work has l)een 
made in former reports, an<l an account of the progress made during 
the past year is here presented. 

Of the stars previously mentioned as to be observed for parallax, two 
have been omitted, namely, a Aurigji', and 'V Persei; the former on ac- 
count of the difference of brilliancy between the i)riucipal star and a 
comparison star, the latter on account of the ditlerence of declination 
of the comjjarison stars. These were substituted by a Corona', and 
I UrsjB Majoris. In consequence of the brilliancy of the former the 
observations will be rather diflicult and probably somewhat incorrect. 
I propose, however, to continue them for some time yet, in ordei- to test 
whether the parallax may be confined to satisfactory limits by a multi- 
plication of the observations. The same is the case with a Persei and 
/5 Audromedse, notwithstanding their insuflicient accuracy. 

In observing t Ursa Majoris use could be made of only one compai^ison 
star; a second one, at iirst designed to be included, proving too indis- 
tinct. The former, however, is in every respect satisfactory. This star 
moves on the same parallel with the principal star and oO.J seconds 
ahead, and its magnitude, according to Argelander, is 8.0. The consid 
erable brilliancy of this star admits of its observation even during un- 
favorable state of the atmosphere, and it has not been neglected not- 
withstanding the sometimes very unsatisfactory impression obtained. 

It is thereby intended to arrive at another result in addition to the de- 
termination of the parallax, namely, the collecting of material for the 
estimation of the relative accuracy which may be exi)e(!ted at the contact 
of the cross-wire and right-ascension diftercnces during a favorable or 
unfavorable condition of the atmospiiere. Although the results obtained, 
until now, in reference thereto are not by any means conclusive, the}' 
are regarded as worth communicating. 

As the results of observations are computed, Avith but few exceptions, 
from four transits, the probable error ± 0^017 is to be expected. In 
close conformity there is deduced from the 10 observations of i Ursa ex- 
tant at present the probable error ± O^OKJ. 

This result appears to be very satisfactory. Even if the probable 
error of a result of observations were ± 0^020, 30 or 40 nights adequately 



726 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

distributed would be sufficient to determine the parallax of a star witb 
a probable error of about ± C.035. If we confine ourselves to the obser- 
vation of such stars, the star of comparison of which is neither too feeble 
or too distant, the observations may be made very rapidly without 
fatiguing the eye, so that a considerable number of stars can be compared 
in one night. There are several hundred pairs of stars in the heavens 
a\'ailable for the purpose, and it does not seem therefore at all imprac- 
ticable for several observers to take up the matter of settling upon a 
direct determination of the parallax of stars of the sixth magnitude, in 
which the probable error would amount to only about ± 0^'.O03. The 
medium parallax of these stars is, according to Peters, 0'''.027, but prob- 
ably is only one-half of this. Both magnitudes, as also their difference, 
are so much above the probable errors that it is to be hoped that con- 
jectures on this important point will, at no distant time, be no longer 
necessary. 



Stonyhuest College (near Whalley), England. 
Stonyliurst College Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9"^ 52^.68 W. 

Latitude, 53° 50' 40" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Nautical Almanac. 

Directors: A. Weld, 1838; 

Eev. S. J. Perry, S. J., F. E. S. 
Assistants: M. M. W. Carlisle; 
W. McKeon; 
' J. Eoonsy; 

J. CULLEN. 

Location : Four miles "W. of Whalley, Lancashire, England. Height 
above sea, 381 feet. Built in 1838 in the park of the Jesuit College. 
Instruments: 

{a) Meridian circle: by Jones, 2 feet 6 inches; divided to 5'; micro- 
scopes reading to 1" ; aperture of object glass, 3 inches ; power generally 
used, 56. 

(h) Transit Instrument: aperture of object glass, 2 inches |; power 
generally used, 42; by Cary. 

(c) Uquatorial instruments: one by Kapier, Curry, Troughton & 
SIMMS ; ai^erture, 8 inches; powers from 30 to GOO or 700: one by 
Jones; aperture, 4 inches, (c) A Cassegrain reflector; aperture 9 J 
inches; two, Newtonian; aperture, 7 inches. 

{d) Spectroscopes : an automatic instrument by Browning, G prisms of 
G0°, each used twice, with an half prism, making largest dispersion = 3G 
prisms of GO'^. A large star spectroscope by Simms, 4 compound prisms 
by Hoffman. A large direct vision spectroscope by Browning. Two 
smaller instruments by Browning. 

(/) Chronograph: small one by Breguet. 

{g) Cloclcs ; two sidereal, mercurial pendulums. 



EEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 727 

(h) Chronometer : Frodsham, Ko. 3148. 

(i) Miscellaneous: A couple of self-recording meteorological uiid ma^- 
netical instruments are in constant use. 

Observations of 1880: 
Jupiter's satellites, lunar occultatious, daily examination of chromo- 
sphere and solar spots, systematic search for ultra-Xcptunian planet. 

Work for 1881: 
Continuation of the same observations. 

Principal publications in 1880: 
Eesults of Meteorological and Magnetical Observations, 1870. 
Astronomical results appear in the monthly notices of It. A. S. 
Meteorological results published by the Board of Trade. 



Strassburg, Germany. 

Stern icarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31™ 2^40 E. i . , ^,, ^, 
Latitude, 480 34' 53".8 ]>^. i ^^ *^'' ^^^ Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31'" 4^.05 L. | ^^ , ^^ ^^ 

^ , .r.^ ^,, r-r^,, n ^T i Of the -S cic Ooservatory. 

Latitude, 48° 34' 59".7 X. ) -^ *^ 

Director : A. Winnecke, 1875. 

About 1770 some astronomical instruments were placed above the 
gate of the hospital . In 1804 J. Henry established a small Observatory 
in the Munster (Cathedral), and observations were made there in 1824. 
A regular Observatory was not established by the city until 1830, and 
then it was placed under the charge of Lequiante, but almost imme- 
diately abandoned. In 1873 a new Observatory was erected without the 
town, in connection with the University. Its general plan is a quad- 
rilateral. 



Sydney, New South Wales. 
Government Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 10^^ 4-" 50^0 E. 

Latitude, 33o 51' 41".l S. 

Directors: W. Scott, 185G; 

- G. K. Smalley, 18G2 ; 
H. C. Kussell, 1870. 

Proposed in 1855, completed in 1858. Its first instruments, supplied 
from the private Observatory which Brisbane had established at Para- 
matta, were those by means of which Dunlap had made his catalogues 
of double stars and of Southern Nebula. This establishment owns a 
refractor with an aperture of 11 inches (0'". 28). 



728 EEPOETS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Tashkent, Bussia. 

(Turkestan Military District.) 

Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, *? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : 1 



ToKio, Japan. 

Observatory of the Dai-GaJcu, 

Longitude from Greenwich, ? 

Latitude, ? 

Director : Prof. H. M. Paul. 



Torino, Italy. 
Regio Osservatorio dell Universita^ 
Longitude from Greenwich, 30™ 48^4 E. 



Latitude, 45^ 4' C^' N. 

Directors: G, B. Beccaria, 1759; 

T. Valpergadi Caluso, 1782 j 
A. M. Vassali Eandi, 1806; | 

J. Plana, 1811; 'J 

A. DoRNA, 1865, J 

Established in 1759 in the top of a tower at the corner of Piazza 
Castello. The Academy of Sciences undertook its direction in 1790, 
and had a new Observatory built in the Palace of the Academy. In 
1820 the establishment was transferred to a terrace of the Palazzo 
Madama. In 1865 the Observatory became an appendage of the Uni- 
versity. 



Toulouse, France. \ 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5™ 51M E. 

Latitude, 43° 36' 47" K. 

Directors: P. P. A. Be Garipuy, 1775; 

A. Darquier de Pellepoix, 1782; . 
J. ViDAL, 1791; 

Marque Victor, 1820; 

P. Petit, 1839; 

F. TisSERAND, 1866; 

B. Baillaud, 1879. 

In 1748 Darquier began to make observations at Toulouse. The 
Observatory was established in 1775 at the Lyceum. A new structure 
was built in 1840 at the extremity of the city. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 729 

Trevandrum, India. 

Trevandrum Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, "t 

Latitude, "? ; 

Director : ? 



Triioste, Austria. 
Sternwarte. 



Longitude from Greenwich, - 

Latitude, % 

Directors: F. Schaxtb, 1857 5 
A. KuNES, 1870. 



Turin, Italy. 
See Torino. 



TuRNBEiDGE Weixs, England. 
Crowborouffh Beacon Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director : ? 



Twickenham, England. 
Twiclcenham Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1"> 13M W. 
Latitude, 51° 27' 4".2 N. 
Director : *? 



IJPSALA, Sweden. 

Observatory of the University. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1" 10'" 30^0 E. 
Latitude, 59° 51' 31".5 l!^. 
Directors: A. Celsius, 1730; 

r. Maltet, 1757 ; 

E. Prosperin, 1773; 



730 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Dr. Melanderhjelm, 1796; 
Beegstrom, 1810; 



N. H. Lelander, 1852; 
G. SWANBERG, 1858; 

Herman Schultz, 18G4. 
Founded in 1730. 

The director has furnished the following i)articulars from his report 
for 1878-1879 : 

The most noteworthy occurrence during the past year is the setting 
apart, as an independent establishment, of the meteorological Observa- 
tory. This new arrangement, made practicable by a government appro- 
priation for the current expenses, is as yet in so far incomplete as in 
absence of an independent building for meteorological purposes the 
institute occupies two rooms in the astronomic building. - - - 

The requirements of the Observatory have been constantly increasing 
and are now imperative as regards instruments, repairs, and proper 
arrangements, if any kind of activity is expected. The present means 
are quite insufficient to satisfy the most urgent needs of the establish- 
ment. 

The only room of observation in a satisfactory condition is the small 
Wackerbarth cujjola, which was repaired last summer, while the meri- 
dian room and the large cupola require considerable repairs and im- 
provements. - - - 

The small collection of instruments of this Observatory, apart from 
quite antique instruments, consists of the following: 

One i^arallactic refractor; made by Steinheil, 9 inches aperture, 
the principal instrument of the Observatory, the application of which, 
however, on account of insufficient mounting, is impracticable and lim- 
ited. It has been employed mainl}' for observation of nebulae and star 
clusters. A concise description of this instrument was given in the 
"Mikrometrisk Bestiimning af 104 Stjerner inom Teleskopiska Stjern- 
grupper 20 VulpecuhE." 

One small parallactic refractor of 4 inches aperture, made by Sims, 
in good condition, and presented to the Observatory some years ago by 
Prof. Wackerbarth. 

One old universal instrument of 45 millimeters aperture, by Eepsold, 
the circles of which, however, are useless for practical measurements ; 
it has been emj)loyed for many years for time determinations in the 
meridian. 

One universal instrument 33 millimeters aperture, by Meterstein. 

One small transit instrument 54 millimeters aperture, by Steinheil, 
the application of which is excellent, but which, on account of insufficient 
mounting, and too small meridian aperture (the telescope is affixed to 
the end of the axis of rotation), has thus far not found any proper appli- 
cation. 

A small reflex circle by Pistor, in satisfactory condition. 

Four portable telescopes. 

One old pendulum clock, by Graham, reconstructed by Kjessels, 
about forty years ago. 

Two old box chronometers, by Kessels. 

One portable barometer, by Pistor. 

The only instrument purchased during the past year is an inexpensive 
pendulum clock for experiments with electrical apparatus, though order 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 731 

was given for a reiiistering ap])aratus for transit observation, and for 
three electrical clock attachments, to be employed in tlie small isulated 
pavilion. 

In the total absence of an instrnmeiit for measuring zenith distances 
preliminary communication has been hehl with the celebrated tiim of 
Kepsoed SonNE, in Ilamburg, for the preparation of a medium sized 
vertical circle. Fnrther projects for the equipment of the Observatory 
have to be dtdayed for the i)resent. 

The Wackerbarth reliector and the IvEPSOLD universal instruments 
have nndergone repairs, and results in the improvement of the latter 
for transit observation. The Steiniieil transit instrument is at present 
in the hands of Mr. Rose, maker to the University, for repair, having in 
view its application in the vertical of the Pole star. 

The library of the Observatory originated by ])rivate donations, has 
received its principal increase in voluntary contributions by scientists 
and institntions abroad. It consists of four distinct groups : the IIjor- 
TER and Mallet donation, the CoUectio Eecentior and the Svanberg 
collections. The catalogue shows for these four the following tigiu-es, 
respectively: 1150, 880, 300, and 1200, of which, however, many, such as 
journals, annuals, ephemerides, &c., consist of a large number of vol- 
umes. On occasion of the emancipation of the meteorology, the works 
relating to this branch were set apart for that institute. The increase 
during the past year amounted to 1)0 contributions, of which 70 came from 
abroad ; sixty books were bound. 

In consequence of the circumstances referred to, little scientitic work 
has been done during the past year. The director has continued his obser- 
vations on nebula^,, while the assistant made time determinations. The 
director's time has been largely consumed in perfecting arrangements for 
instruction. Very desirable text-books have been published at govern- 
ment expense, and i^reparations made to facilitate astronomical iustruc- 
tion for the students, among which is the establishment of a work-room, 
in which opportunity is given to the students to acquaint themselves 
between the observations with recent astronomical literature and jour- 
nals. 

Eight students have practiced during the year, and many have at- 
tended the astronomical lectures. 



Utrecht, Holland. 

Observatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 20"" 31«.7 E. 
Latitude, 52° 5' 10".5 K. 
JDirec^ors; J. F. Heunert, 1707; 

G. Mall, 1812 ; 

R. VAN Rees, 1836 ; 

M. HOEK. 1860 ; 

J. A. C. OUDEMANS, 1874. 

Founded in 1707. Remodeled in 1864. This Observatory possesses 
an altazimuth. 



732 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Valencia, Ireland. 

Observatory of the London Meteorological Office. 

Longitude from Greenwich ? 

Latitude ? 

Director : ? 



Varshava Russia. 
Astronomiclieskaia Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 1^ 2P^ 7^4 E. 

Latitude, 52° 13' 5". 7 K 

Directors : Arminski, 1820 ; 

J. D. Barano'waki, 1848 ; 
J. Wastokoff, 1877. 

In 1764 EosTAN made observations at tlie Castle. From 1765 to 1768 
IS". Wolf made observations at the Blue Palace on the Mniczek. The 
Observatory was not established ijermanently until 1820, and the ex- 
X)enses of construction were met by Straszie, president of the Univer- 
sity. It contains a hall for meridian instruments, and two towers with 
cupolas. 



Venice, Italy. 

Observatory of the NavaJ, Institute. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49" 25^4 E. 

Latitude, 45° 25' 49".5 K. 

Directors: B. von WtJLLERSTORF-URBAiR, 1840; 

E. MiLLOSEVICH, 1874. 

Established about 1840. 



Vienna, Austria. 
See Wicn. 



ViLNA, Russia. 

Astronomicheslcaia Ohservatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, l^' 41" 11^9 E. 
Latitude, 54° 41" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Slavinski: "Astronomische 
JS'achrichten," vol. v, and viii. 

Directors : M. O. Poczobut, 1764; 

J. B. VON Sniadecki, 1808; 



'Hi 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 733 

P. Slavinski, 1824; 
M. KLOUSCiiNEViTcn, 1841 ; 
G. A. VON Fuss, 1848; 
G. Sabler, 1854; 
Colonel Peter Mysloff, 18G7. 
Assistant: Fried. Wilhelm Berg. 

It seems that this Observatory had already existed for some time, 
when in 1704 Poczobut restored it and replaced its instruments. Its 
labors, suspended during the Eevolution, were not resumed until 1803. 
Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument : maker, Eamsden, in 1777; aperture, 
4 inches ; magnifying ijower, 40 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: maker, Eamsden, in 1777; aperture of ob- 
jective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 40 and GO. 

{(1) Spectroscope: direct vision, maker, S. Merz, at Munich. 

[e) Photometer: made by the late Prof. L. Schwerd, at Speyer. Of 
the three made by him one is in Bonn, and the other in Pulkowa. 

(/) Chronograph : maker, Ansfeld, at Gotha. 

{(/) CloclxS: one, mean time, maker, Shelton, (London); one sidereal, 
maker. Hardy, (London, 1819). 

{h) Chronometer: one, mean time, maker. Dent, Xo. 2796; one, 
sidereal, maker, Dent, No. 2000. 

(i) A Heliostat, by S. Merz. Various ancient astronomical instni- 
ments, and modern meteorological instruments. The library of the 
Observatory contains 1,960 works, in 4,181 volumes. 

Observations : 
From 1869 to 1876, photoheliographical observations, in the same 
manner as at Kew, near London. In the year 1876, the heliograph, by 
DALL31EYER, Loudou, was destroyed by lire. Meteorological observa- 
tions are made four times a day: at 7*^ A. m., 1'^ p. m., 9^^ P. i\i., and l^" 49"^ 
P. M. (=7^ mean Washington time, A. m). 



Warsaw, Russia. 
See Varshava. 



Wellington, Neu\ Zealand. 
Government Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, "? 

Director : ? 



734 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Whalley, England. 
See Stonylmrst. 



WiEN, near, (Wahring,) Austria. 

K. K. Universitclts Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^' 5^ 21^49 E. 
Latitude, 48° 13' 55".4 ^. 
Directors : M. Kell, 1756 ; 

F. VON P. Friesnecker, 1792; 

J. S. BtTRG, 1817; 

J. J. VON LiTTROW, 1810; 

K. L. VON LiTTROW, 1841 ; 

Prof. Dr. Edmund Weiss. , 

Assistants : 1. Johann Paxisa. 

2. Dr. JOHANN HOLETSCHEK. 

Aids: 1. KarlZelbr; 

2. Dr. J. V. Hepperger. 

The first observations made in Vienna were undertaken in 1745 by 
the Jesuits, J. Franqois and J. Liesgang. A permanent Observatory 
was founded in 1756. It was rebuilt from 1820 to 1826, and located 
among the University buildings. In 1874 a new establishment on a 
greatly enlarged scale was erected at Wahring, outside the town, and 
completed in 1879. An equatorial of Grubb's, with a focus of 32 feet 
(9'°.7) and an aperture of 27 inches (0™.70) is to occupy the great dome. 

INSTRUIMENTS: 

{a) Meridian circle : made by Christian Starke, at Vienna, (after 
the example of the meridian circles of Reichenbach) ; diameter of cir- 
cles, 36 inches ; divided to 3' ; read by four microscopes to single seconds ; 
aperture of objective, 48 inches; magnifying i^ower ordinarily employed 
120 diameters. 

(l)') Prime vertical: maker, Christian Starke; aperture, 50 inches; 
magnifying power, 120 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: one, made by Alvan Clark & Sons; 
aperture of objective, llf inches; magnifying powers of ej'e-pieces, up 
to 1200. {&) One, made by Frauenhofer; aperture of objective, <3 
inches ; magnifying powers, up to 600. 

[d] Spectroscopes: one small star spectroscope; one Zoellner's solar 
spectroscope. 

{(j) Clocks : two mean time ; makers, Ulzschneider, at Munich ; Vo- 
RAUER, at Vienna; several sidereal; makers, Molyneux (London); 
AucH (Gotha); Graham (London); and a few, more or less accurate. 

[h] Chronometers: mean time; maker, Arnold; sidereal, makers, 
Kessels, Molyneux. 

{i) Miscellaneous : An equatorial with adaptation for various latitudes, 
the 6-inch objective by Steinheil, the mounting by Schaffler. Two 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 73") 

refractors of 4-inch aperture; one of tliein not cquatorially mount od. 
One equatorial of 3-inch aperture, aihipted for various latitudes, object- 
ives by FRAUENnoFER. One equatorial ot ;J-incli aperture, by Dol- 
LOND. One dialitic equatorial of Plossel, of 5 inches. One comet- 
seeker, of G-inch aperture, and 4 feet focal length, by Mkuz- mounted 
equatorially on the principle of Yillareau, by Scn^EiDER. One 
comet-seeker of 3-inch aperture by Plossel ; one of 2^ inches, by Stein- 
HEiL. Besides these, various snuiller portable transit instruments, the- 
odolites, sextants, &c. 

Observations during the past year (1S80— June, 18.S1): 

(a) Adapting instrument to the new Observatory ; not regularly in 
use. Mostly used for determination of clock error, &c. 

{b') The same remarks applicable. 

(c) (c') Observations made of asteroids and comets. 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881-1882): 

Continuation of observations of asteroids and comets, with the two 
equatorials: Zone observations (re-observations of stars observed by 
Santini, between decl. 0° and 10°) with the meridian circle. If the 
large equatorial of 27 inches by H. Grube, at Dublin, can be mounted 
in due time, observations with it will be commenced at once; but the 
plan of operation is not yet settled. 

Principal publications during the year (1880): 

E. Weiss; "Annalen der K. K. Sternwarte in Wien," iii Folge, Bd. 
29, Vienna, 1881; 1 vol., 226 pp. 

E. Weiss; "Ueber die Bahn der Kometen 1843 (I), and 1880 (&)." 
AMd. d. Wiss. in Wien, 1880; 1 vol., 20 pp. 

E. Weiss, "Ueber Berechnung der Differentialquotienten in stark 
excentrischen Bahnen." AJcad. d. Wiss. in Wien, 1881; 1 vol., 11 pp. 

J. HoLETSCHEK; "Bahnbcstimmuug dcs Phineteu Pcitlio." Alad. 
d. Wiss. in Wien, 1881; 1 vol., 15 pp. 
Additional information : 

The principal instrument of the Observatory will be an equatorial of 
27-inch object-glass, and about 32 feet focal length, manutsictured by 
Howard Grubb at Dublin; but it is not yet out of the contractor's 
hands. The first Assistant, Mr. J. Palisa, re-discovered Juewa (139), 
February 23, 1881; and discovered asteroid (220) May 18, 1881. 



Wien, {Josephstadt,) Austria. 
Ohservatory of the High School of Technology. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 5" 25^3 E. 
Latitude, 48° 12' 53".8 N. 
Directors : J. Herr, 1805 ; 

W. Sinter, 1870. 
Founded in 1865 at the southwestern extremity of the city; com- 
pleted in 1867. 



736 EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

WiLHELMSHAVEN, Germany. 
Kaiserliches Marine Ohservatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 32^ 35^21 E. 

Latihide, 53° 31' 52".2 :N". 

Authority for longitude: Astronomische Arbeiten des kgl. preuss. 
geodatischen Instituts fiir 1878. Latitude, own observations of zenith- 
stars with meridian circle. 

Director: C. Borgen, Dr. phil, 187G; 

Assistants : P. Andries, Dr. phil. ; 

Lieutenant zur See, Hartmann. 

Founded in 1875 ; comi^leted in 1878. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: one; makers, A. Eepsold Sohne, in Hamburg; 
diameter of circles, 21.6 inches, divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes, 
each to 0".l; aperture of objective, 4J Inches; magnifying jiower ordi- 
narily employed, 125 diameters. 

{h) Meridian transit instruments : one portable, by 0. Bamberg, Ber- 
lin ; aperture, 1^ inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrumeiits : one, by Steinheil Sohne, in Munich; 
aperture of objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 48 to 
360; ring-micrometer, (c') One, Steinheil Sohne; 2^ inches aper- 
ture; magnifying power, 24 to 150. 

(/) Chronograph : one, by FuESS, Berlin. 

{g) Clocks: meantime; one, by Eppner, Berlin; sidereal; one, by F. 
Tilde, Berlin (standard clock). 

(i) Miscellaneous : A complete set of Lamont's instruments for ob- 
serving the variations of the magnetical declination, horizontal force, 
and inclination. 

Lamont's magnetical theodolite; dip-circle by Dover; self-register- 
ing barometer and anemometer (Robinson); meteorological instru- 
ments; self registering tide-gauge; time-ball. Since September, 1880, 
a self-registering tide-gauge, devised by Mr. Reitz, of Hamburg, has 
been erected in Heligoland and placed under the control of this Observ- 
atory. 

Observations during the past year (1880): 

(«) Observations for time and determination of places of the occulta- 
tion-stars of the IS^autical Almanac. 

(b) Only used for practical instruction. 

(c) (c') Comet Swift (1880 c). Occultations of stars. 

{i) Meteorological observations (three times a day, usual weather re- 
cording and registering of barometer and anemometer, read hourly), 
magnetical observations; every second hour from 8 a. m. to 10 p. m. 
readings of the variation instruments, and every month one or two ab- 
solute determinations of magnetic elements. Tide registerings here and 
in Heligoland. 



REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 737 

Work proposed for tue co:.iing year (1881): 
Same as 1880. 

Principal publications of the Observatory during the 
YEAR 1880: 

1. "Meteorologiselie Beobachtungen," published in the "Amialeii (k'l 
Hydrographie," vol. viii. 

"Gezeiteu Tafelii fiir 1881," published by the Hydrogiaphic Ollice of 
the Admiralty. 

3. Dr. Borgen: "Gezeitenstromungen iin Canal uud der Xordsee/' 
published in the "Anualeii der Ilydrographie," vol. viii. 

4. Dr. Borgen: " Ueber die tagliche Ungleichheit in deii Gezeiten," 
published in the "Annalen der Ilydrographie," vol. viii. 

5. Dr. Borgen: "Chronometer Untersuchungen, 1878-1880," pub- 
lished in the "Annaleu der Hydrographie," vol. viii. 

6. Dr. Andries: "Ursache des niedrigen Luftdrucks auf der Siid- 
hemisphare," published in the "Zeitschrift fiir Meteorologie," vol xv, 
p. 53. 

Additional information: 

A time-ball falls twice daily, in local and in Greenwich noon. Be- 
sides, the nautical school at Elstieth receives twice a week telegraphic 
time-signals. 

The "Gezeiten Tafeln" are computed at the Observatory and extend 
now to 7 German, 6 British, and 2 French ports. The second part, con- 
taining information about currents, &c., is worked out at the Hydro- 
graphic Office of the Admiralty, which publishes the whole. 



WiLLiAMSTOWN, VictoHa. 

Observatory. (See Melbourne.) 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9^ 39°^ 38^.8 E. 
Latitude, 37° 52' 7".2 S. 
Director: ? 



WiLNA, Russia. 

See Vihia. 



Windsor, Xeiv South Wales. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 10^^ 3"^ 21».7 E. 
Latitude, 33o 36' 28".9 S. 
Director: John Tebbutt 
S. Mis. 31 47 



738 REPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

■KA-WEI, Chi 
Observatory. 



Zi-KA-WEi, China. 



Longitude for Greenwich, 

Latitude, ? 

Director: 1 



Zurich, Switzerland. 

Sternwarte des schweizerischen PolytechniJcums. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 34"" 12«.6 E. 
Latitude, 47° 22' 40" :N^. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : Astronomische Mittheilungen 
von Dr. Eudolf Wolf. 
Directors : J. H. Wasee, 1773 ; 
J. Feer, 1787; 
j. eschmann, 1823; 
Rudolf Wolf, 1860; 
Assistant : Alfred Wolfer. 

Founded in 1773 upon the Carolus Thurni (Charles' Tower), through 
the efforts of the Ziirich Society of Naturalists. Abandoned from 1798 
to 1805. In 1810 a new Observatory was erected east of the Carolus 
Thurm; this was abandoned in 1852. Finally in 1860 the Observatory 
was rebuilt at the Polytechnikum, where it was inaugurated in 1863. 

Instruments : 
[a) Meridian circles : two ; makers, Kern, in Aarau, Ertel, in Munich; 
diameter of circles, 20 inches ; divided to 2' ; read by 2 microscopes to 
0.1" ; aperture of objective, 5.3 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily 
employed, 120.80. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : makers, Kern, in Aarau ; aperture of 
objective, 6 inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 60 to 500. {&) Merz, 
in Munich, 3J inches ; 64 to 212. 

(d) Spectroscope : one by Merz, in Munich. 

(/) Chronographs: four by Hipp, in ISTeuchatel, and Hassler, in Aarau. 

(g) ClocTcs: meantime; makers, Association ouvriereauLocle; sidereal; 
maker, Silvain Mairet au Locle. Also several pendulum clocks, among 
which one by Eepsold. 

(h) Chronometer: sidereal; seconds chronometer; maker, BuZEN- 
GEIGBR. 

{i) Miscellaneous: Several astronomical theodolites, meteoroscopes, 
panagenprisms, &c. ; also historical collection of antique instruments. 

Observations during the past year (1880): 
(a) Time determinations ; refraction, &c.; moonstars. 
(c) (c') Sunspots ; planets, &c. 
{i) Shooting stars. 



EEPORTS OF ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 739 

Work proposed for the coming year (1881) : 
Contiuiiation of former series. 

Principal publications of the Observatory during the 
YEAR (1880) : 

E. Wolf, Astronomiscbe Mittbeilungen, published in " Vierteljabrs- 
schrift der Naturforscbenden Gesellscbaft in Ziiricb." 
Additional information: 

The Observatory of the Polytecbnikum is mainly used for the prac- 
tical training- of tbe students. Tbe scientific results are voluntary 
contributions by the director and assistant. 



i 



INDEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Abbe, E., director Jena Observatory G97 

Abbot, General Henry L., director Willets Point, N. Y., Field Observatoiy .. 669 

Aberdeen, Scotland, Observatory. (Sec Dun Ecbt. ) 686 

Abo, Russia, Observatory, report of 671 

Aboriginal remains, correspondence relative to 441 

Aborigines of Australia, memoir on 3*2 

Act of Congress respecting statue of Professor Henry, (see Congress) 151 

Accountant 9 

Adams, J. C, director, Cambridge, England, Observatory 677 

Adelaide, Soutb Australia, Observatory, report of 672 

Additions to the collections of the Museum 110 

Africa, western, collections from 50 

Agents of exchange, distributing 87 

shipping ., 86 

Agricultural Department, work of 140 

Aguilar, A., director, Madrid, Spain, Observatory 707 

Airy, Sir G. B., director. Royal Observatory, Greenwich, England 694 

Alaska, collections from, to Museum 47 

Alaska Commercial Company, relation of Institution to ". 64 

explorations in 25,26,47,80 

Albany, N. Y., Dudley Observatory 624 

Alexandria Park Observatory, Nottingham, England, report of 714 

Alfred Observatory, Alfred, N. Y 627 

Algiers, Algeria, Observatoire National, report of 672 

Allegheny (Pa. ) Observatory, report of 624 

Altitudes, collection of '-^0 

Altona, Prussia, Stern warte, report of 672 

American Fish Culture Association, appropriations secured by 141 

Observatories, reports of 624 

Amherst, Mass., College Observatory, report of 625 

Analyses by Professor Atwatcr 14'"> 

Anchor Steamship Company grants free freight 15 

Andr6, M. , director, Lyon , France, Observatory 706 

Andrews, E. A., assisted in work of United States Fish Commission 74 

Anguiano, A., director, Chapultepec, Mexico, Observatory 681 

Ann Arbor, Mich., Detroit Observatory 626 

Annapolis, Md., United States Naval Academy Observatory 626 

Announcements by telegraph, astronomical 1 1 

Anthropology, progress report on, by Prof. 0. T. Mason 391 

bibliography of 

Annual report of Secretary 

ordered to be printed ^" 

741 



742 INDEX. 

Page. 

Annual Eeports of the United States Fish Commission 147 

Apparatus and methods of capture 78 

estimated expenditures for 161 

loan of - 71 

Applications for use of Museum huilding 166 

Appropriatiou for Armory building 161 

for exhibit Berlin International Fishery Exhibition ^. 80 

for international exchanges suggested 14 

for marble flooring in new Museum, resolution of Executive 

Committee respecting 156,164 

for Museum, &c 161 

for publication of Polaris report 64, 162 

Archteology, researches and collections in 31 

Arctic expedition, publication of, appropriation for 64, 162 

Architects of National Museum building, report of 165, 170 

Arizona, collections from, to Museum 48 

explorations in 23, 136 

Armagh, Ireland, Observatory, report of 672 

Armory bui Iding, appropriation for 161 

used for storage 8 

Artificial propagation of striped bass 76 

Ashe, E. D., director, Quebec, Canada, Observatory 720 

Assistants in the Museum v, 61 

of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum v 

Asteroids discovered in 1880 12,212 

Astrand, J. J., director. Naval Observatory, Bergen, Norway 673 

Astronomical announcements by telegraph 11 

Observatories, reports of 623 

Astronomy, progress report on, by Prof. E. S. Holden 183 

Athens, Greece, Observatories, report of 673 

Atlantic Cable Company, acknowledgment to 12 

Atlantic coast, collections from, to Museum 49 

Atlas Steamship Conijiauy grants free freight 15 

Atkins, C. G., explorations .by 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Atomic weights, by George F. Becker 35 

Atwater, Professor, analyses by 145 

Atwood, Capt. N. E., special agent 79 

Australia, aborigines of, memoir on 32 

B. 

Bache, steamer, dredging by 143, 148 

Baillaud, B., director, Toulouse, France, Observatoire 728 

Bailey, Sylvanus, assistance given by 25 

Baird, Prof. S. F. , Annual Eeport of 1 

appointed Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries 141 

authorized to dispose of Virginia bonds 166 

Director of the Institution iv, v, 8".) 

first prize at Berlin Fish Exhibition 149 

introduction to the report on scientific progress 181 

letter to Cougi-ess transmitting report Ill 

letter to W. W. Story relating to statue of Professor Henry. 151 

member of National Museum Building Commission 169 

Baker, Marcus, assistance given by 25 



INDEX. 743 



rage. 
i)serva- 



Bakhnyzen, H. G., van de Lande, director Leyden Holland, Ryks Ob 

torium 

7n'> 

Ball, Prof. Robert S., director, Uunsink Observatory, Dublin, IieJaiul t;>-- 

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad granted free freight .. , 

grants special freight rates j - 

Baltimore and Potomac Railroad granted free freight si 

grants special freight rates j ,-, 

Barclay Observatory, Leyton, England, report of 7(>]> 

Barker, Prof. George F., report on progress in chemistry 2C^9 

report on progress in physics 235 

Barnard, D., report of . ,, 

Barnard, E. E., director of the Nashville, Tenn. , private observatory 049 

Barnard, J. G., internal structure of the earth :V> 

Barometric observations of Prof E. S. Snell, discussions of 4(;i 

Bartlett, Arthur K., director of High School Observatory, Battle Creek. 

Mich ,;.,~ 

Basle, Switzerland, Physikalisches Institiit, report of c,~:\ 

Bass, artificial propagation of 7,; 

Battle Creek, Mich. , High School Observatory, report of tj-27 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H. , arrangement of fish duplicates 147 

collections made by 24 , 4(5, 47, 51 , 52, 53, 54 

curator, ichthyology, National Museum v 

explorations 25, 47, 80 

investigations .58, 80 

publications in Museum Proceedings 41 

report upon fishes of Alaska 2(5 

special agent 79 

Beardslee, Commander L. A., collections made by 47, 51 , .52. 53, 54 

investigations by 145 

Bebian, L. de, special thanks due IC 

Becker, George F. , atomic vreights 35 

Behrmann, C. , director, Elsfleth, Germany, Observatory 690 

Belding, Mr. , contributions by 48, 52 

Belgium, commission of international exchange 14 

Bell, James, collections made by 49, .53 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, collections 23, 48, 52, 53 

explorations 23 

Berendt, Carl Hermann, death of C9 

Bergen, Norway, Naval Observatory, report of •573 

Berlin Aquarium, articles presented by i:?5 

Berlin International Fishery Exhibition 40, 73, 80, 149 

Museum Bulletin No. 18 40 

Berlin, Prussia, Konigliche Sternwarte, report of 674 

Bermer.side Observatory, Halifax, England, report of (596 

Bern, Switzerland, Sternwarte, report of 674 

Bessels, Dr. Emil, appropriation for preparation of report of 162 

results of Polaris Expedition t54 

Bibliography of Anthropology '^^•^ 

Billings, Melvin, anthropological correspondence -I'll 

Binuey,W. G., presentation of shells ^•' 

Birds, collections of, added to Museum ••- 

North American, catalogue of "^^ 

revision of nomenclature of "^^ 

Birr Castle, Ireland, Parsonstown Observatory, report of ^j""* 



744 INDEX. 



Bishop, George, director London, England, private observatory 704 

Blackford, E. G., contributions by 143, 144 

> specimens furnished by 54 

Blood of marine animals, temperature of 145 

Bluefish, bibliographic monograph on 145 

Board of Regents, action respecting inaugural reception to President 155, 157, 165 

action of, respecting statue of Professor Henry 155, 156, 164 

journals of 33, 164, 166 

members of iv, 164, 165 

resolutions by 164, 165, 166 

resolutions granting use of Museum Building for inaugural 

reception 4 

Boardman, G. A., specimens from 52 

Boehmer, George H. , assistant, Smithsonian Institution V 

edited reports of astronomical observatories 623 

ethnological index 28 

management of exchanges 9 

Borgen, Dr. C, director, Kaiserliches Marine Observatorium, Wilhelmshaven, 

Germany 736 

Boggs, Wm. B., engineer of steamer "Fish Hawk" 74 

Bogota, U. S. of Colombia, Observatory, report of - 675 

Bologna, Italy, Observatorio Astronomico, report of 675 

Bombay, India, Colaba Observatory, report of 675 

Bonn, Prussia, Universitiits Sternwarte, report of , 675 

Books and apparatus, loan of 71 

estimated expendi tures for 161 

Booth, Hon. Newton, Regent iv, 164, 165 

Boothkamp, Prussia, Observatory, report of 676 

Bordeaux, France, Observatoire, report of 676 

Borne, M. von dem, articles presented by 135 

Boss, L. , director of Dudley Observatory 624 

Botany, progress, report on, by Prof. William G. Farlow 313 

Boxes sent abroad 85 

Brace, N. L., anthropological correspondence 441 

Brady, M. B. , photographs of Professor Henry 2,3 

Brazil, commission of international exchange 14 

Bremen, Germany, Observatorium der Navigations Schule, report of 676 

Breslau, Prussia, Universitiits Sternwarte, report of 676 

Brewer, Thomas M. , death of 66 

Brooklyn, N. Y. , private observatory, report of 627, 628 

Brooks, Mrs. C. S. , bust in plaster of Professor Henry 3, 63 

Brooks, William R., director of Red House Observatory, Phelps, N. Y 655 

Brooks, Mr., embryological history of fish 146 

Brown, James Temple 79 

Brown, S. C, registrar. National Museum v 

Brown, S. G., clerk ^ v 

in charge of transportation 9 

Bruhns, C. C., director, Leipzig, Germany, Universitats Sternwarte 701 

Brussels, Belgium, Observatoire Royale, report of 676 

Buffalo, N. Y., private observatory, report of 628,629 

Building commission, report of 165, 167 

Buildings 6 

expenses for 159, 161 

Bulletins, National Museum 38 



Bulletin No. 17. 

No. 18. 



INDEX. 745 

Pnco. 

:{9 



40 

Biuoau of Engraviiijr aiid Printing, engraving of Professor Henry 3 

Bureaus of exchange abroad 1 .j 

Burglar-alarm telegraph in now Musenm Kl'j 

Burton, C. W., bust in jdaster of Professor Henry 3 

Bush, Miss Jennie R., anthropological correspondence 441 

Business arrangement of the Institution 32 

Busts of Professor Henry 3^ 63 

C. 

Cacciatore, G., director Royale Ohservatorio, Palermo, Italy 71G 

Cadiz, Spain, Naval Observatory, report of (j77 

Cairo, Egypt, Observatoire Khedivial, report of 077 

California, collection from, to Museum 48 

salmon introduced in New Zealand and Germany 146 

Cambridge, England, Observatory, report of G77 

Mass. , Observatory of Harvard College 629 

Cambridgeport, Mass., private observatory, report of 631 

Cape Ann, fishermen of, contributions by 143 

Cape Cod, fauna north of, additions to 145 

Capetown, Africa, Royal Observatory, report of 678 

Capture offish, methods of 78 

Carib antiquities 31 

painting of 50 

Carletou College Observatory, Northfield, Minn., report of 6.54 

Carj), introduction of 146, 148, 149 

propagation of 77 

Cases in Museum, appropriation for 162 

Casey, Col. Thomas L., restoration of lawns and roads 174 

Caswell's meteorological observations 31 

Catalogue of North American birds 40 

Trochilidae 41 

Catherineburg, Russia, Observatory, report of 680 

Catlin collection of paintings :'>6 

Cattle, S. T., contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

Cephalopod mollusks of New England 1-14 

Census of Indians •. 62 

the United States, relation to United States Fish Commission work. 147, 148 

Zuui village ~'^ 

Centennial Commission archives '- 64 

Chambers, Charles, director Colaba Observatory, Bombay, India 675 

Chapultepec, Mexico, National Observatory, report of 6S1 

Charkow, Russi a. Observatory, (see Kharkoff ) 69^^ 

Chase, Alex. W., anthropological correspondence 442 

Check-list of fossil plants -''9 

Chemical analyses ^^ 

composition of fish I''"* 

Chemistry, progress report on, by Prof. George F. Barker 289 

Chemist, report of - ^^'\^' 

Chicago, Illinois, Dearborn Observatory 632 

Chief clerk. {See William J. Rhees.) 

Christiania, Norway, University Observatory, report of 681 

Churts, England, Red Hill Observatory, report of 682 



746 INDEX. 

Page. 

Cincinnati Observatory, Mount Lookout, Ohio, report of ' 647 

Circulars published by the Institution 32 

Clark, A. Howard, special agent of fisheries 79 

specimens obtained by 54 

Clark, Edward, connection with National Museum Building Commission 1G7 

Clark, Frank N., in charge of hatching station T6 

Clark, Henry James, memoir on Lucernariae 32 

Classification of fossil plants 59, 60 

Clerc, G. O., director, Catherineburg, Russia, Observatory 680 

Click, Thomas M., anthropological correspondence 442 

Clinton, N. Y., Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College 633 

Cluss and Schultze, supervising architects of National Museum building 167, 177 

Clymer, Hon. Hiester, Eegent iv, 164, 165 

motions by 165 

Coahuila, mummy from 51 

Coast Survey steamer Bache, dredging by 143, 148 

Cod-fish hatching at Wood's Holl 75 

Cod, investigations on 80 

Coimbra, Portugal, Observatory, report of 682 

Colaba Observatory, Bombay, India, report of 675 

Collaborators, deaths of , 66 

Collections of birds 52 

fishes 53 

fossils 56 

general 46 

made by fishermen of Cape Ann 143 

mammals 51 

minerals 56 

miscellanea 56 

of the Museum, additions to 110 

in New Mexico and Arizona 136, 137,138 

paintings 56 

plants 56 

reptiles 58 

preservation of, appropriations for 161 

shells 55 

College of New Jersey Observatories, reports of 667 

Collins, Capt. J. W. , assistant at the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 82 

special agent 79 

Collooney, Ireland, Markree Observatory, report of 683 

Columbia College, New York Observatory, report of ,... 653 

Columbia, Missouri, the Laws Observatory 634 

Colombo, Ceylon, private observatory, report of 683 

Color-blindness, researches m 20 

Columbus, Ohio, private observatory, report of 635 

Comets of 1880 13,200 

Commissions of international exchange abroad 14 

Compagnie G^n6rale Transatl antique grants free freight 15 

Comstock, Professsor, investigations 58 

Congress, act of, respecting statue of Professor Henry 150 

appropriation for introduction of food-fishes 141 

established Fish Commission 140 

ordered printing of Smithsonian Report iii 

ordered printing of extra copies of report ii 



INDEX. • 747 

/-< • PaRp- 

Longrossional appropriation for international exchanges suggested i j 

Consuls, acknowledgments due j-, 

Contents of the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1880 vi-vii 

Contributions to Knowledge, vol. xxii ^H 

vol. xxiii 152 

Conway, John W., anthropological correspondence 442 

Conwentz, Dr., director, Sternwarte, Danzig, Prussia <W4 

Cooke, Lewis, dredging by 14;^ 

Cope, Prof. E. D., investigations f,^i 

on the zoological position of Texas :^y 

Copeland, C. W., designed steamer "Fish Hawk" 74 

Copeland, Dr. Ralph, astronomer, Dun Echt, Scotland, Observatory n-tj 

Copenhagen Observatory, (see Kjobeuhavu) <j(iU 

Coppe'e, Prof. H., Regent.... iv, 1G4, ir,,') 

olTered resolution 1(16 

Cordoba, Argentine Republic, Observatorio National Argentiuo, report of. . . . 0-3 

Cork, Ireland, Observatory of Queen's College, report of C,)^:i 

Correspondence of the Institution 9 

relating to statue of Professor Henry 150 

relative to aboriginal remains 441 

variety of 10, 11 

Correspondents of the Institution, list of 32 

foreign 88 

Corresponding clerk v, 9 

Corson, Dr. Jos. K., collection of living reptiles 48, 53 

Coues, Dr. Elliott, investigations 58 

Courtenay, E. H., assisted in preparation of rainfall tables , 31 

Courtesies from foreign museums tU 

Cox, W. v., special agent 79 

Cracow Observatory, (see Krakau) 700 

Crawford, Capt. E., mammals from 51 

Crayon heads of Professor Henry 3 

CroHstadt Observatory, (see Kronshtadt) 701 

Crowborough Beacon Observatory, Turnbridge Wells, England, report of 7'29 

Culture of fish, investigations of 78 

Cunard Steamship Company grants free freight b'> 

Cushing, F. H., anthropological correspondence 443 

assistant, ethnology. National Museum v 

explorations 2*2-48 

specimens obtained by 23, 48, 51 

D. 

Daingerfield, Miss H. de C, clerk in charge of files v, 9 

Dall, W. H. , collections made by 2<), 4G, 47, 51 , 52, 54 

explorations 2(), 47, 79, 80 

Daltonism, see color-blindness -1 

Damon, George L., furnished iron doors for Smithsonian building 7 

Danish Fish Commission, articles presented by l'-^ 

Danzig, Prussia, Observatory, report of ^'^ ' 

Davis' Straits, collections in ^"'•' 

Davy, Dr. Mari6, director, Montsouris, France, Observatory 710 

deGasparis, N., director, Naples, Italy, Observatory "1^ 

de Mesnuita, Francisco de Paula Ferreira, director, Lisbon, Portugal, Obsor- 

^ ^ 703 

vatory 



748 INDEX. 

Page. 

de Souza Pinto, director, Coimbra, Portugal, Observatory 682 

Dearborn Observatory, Cbicago, 111., report of , 632 

Deaths of employes and collaborators 66 

Carl Hermann Berendt 69 

Thomas M. Brewer 66 

William Q. Force 69 

J. Homer Lane 68 

James H. Milner 67 

Declaration of Independence, restoration of , 72 

Decrease of fisheries, investigation of 147 

Deep-sea thermometer, experiments with 145 

work of the Fish Commission 143 

Demarara, explorations in 23 

Dennison, E. W. , brook trout 55 

Derpt, Russia, Observatory, report of 684 

Detroit Observatory, Ann Arbor, Mich. , report of 626 

Detroit River, white-fish placed in 76 

Deuster, Hon. P. V., bill introduced by 80 

Deutscher Fischereis Verein 80 

Devens, Hon. Charles, member ex offlcio IV" 

Diebitsch, H., assistant, Smithsonian Institution V 

management of exchanges 9 

Diptera, catalogue of ^ 32 

Discussion of barometric observations of Prof. E. S. Snell 461 

Display at the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 81 

Distribution of duplicate specimens , 60 

offish 76,147 

of German carp 77 

of publications 17 

of specimens 17, 139 

Doberck, J., director, Markree Observatory, Collooney, Ireland 683 

Dom, T. A., director, Lisbon, Portugal, Observatory 703 

Domestic exchanges 88 

Donaldson, Thomas, collection of minerals 56 

Donations to United States Fish Commission 135 

Doolittle, C. L., director of Sayre Observatory of Lehigh University, South 

Bethelem, Penn 662 

Dorna, N. , director, Torino, Italy, Osservatorio 728 

Dover, Thomas, anthropological correspondence 443 

Draper, Henry, director of Hastings, N. Y., private observatory 641 

Dredging by United States Coast Survey steamer "Bache" 143,148 

under Professor Packard 148 

Dublin, Ireland, Observatories, reports of 685 

Dubuque Observatory. Dubuqne, Iowa, report of 635 

Dudley Observatory, Albany, N. Y., report of 624 

Dugds, Prof. A. , collections made by 50, 52 

Duly, Albert N., engiueer, National Museum V 

Dun Echt, Scotland, Private Observatory, report of 686 

Dunsiuk Observatory, Dublin, Ireland, report of " 685 

Duplicate specimens, distribution of 60 

Durham, England, Observatory, report of , 689 

DUsseldorf , Prussia, Observatory, report of 689 

Dutch Fish Commission, articles presented by 135 

Earhardt, John G., anthropological correspondence 443 



INDEX. 749 



E. 

rage. 

Earl of Eosse, director, Birr Castle, Ireland, Observatory t;74 

Eaton, D. H., anthropological correspondence -144 

Earll, R. E., collections made by 49, r)4, 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Economy of the fisheries, investigations of the 78 

Edgecomb, D. W., director of Newington, Conn., private Observatory 651 

Edinburgh, Scotland, Royal Observatory, report of 090 

Editor of publications 9 

Edmunds, R. H. , special agent of fisheries 79 

Edwards, Vinal N., collector of Fish Commission 143 

specimens by 5,'> 

Electrical apparatus in Museum, appropriation for 1G2 

Elevator in Smithsonian building 7 

EUzabeth, N. J. , private observatory, report of 63«j 

EUery, R. L. J., director, Melbourne, Victoria, Observatory 709 

Elliot, Daniel Girard, memoir on Trochi^idae 32 

list of humming birds ^ 

Elsfleth, Germany, Observatorium der Navigations Schule, report of 690 

Embryology, attention paid to 146 

Emerson, Charles F., director Shattuck Observatory, Hanover, N. II 640 

Emerton, J. H., artist "4 

Employes, deaths of "^ 

Endlich, Dr. F. M., agent of the Treasury Department 23 

chemical examinations 58 

chemist of the institution 23 

contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

explorations ~-^ 

Engineer school Field Observatory, Willets Point, N. Y., report of 669 

Engravings on steel of Professor Henry 3 

Entomological Commission, work of !•*" 

Epstein, Dr., director, Fraukfurt-on-the-Main, Prussia, Observatory 691 

Esmatt, J. J. E., director Observatoire, Cairo, Egypt _W7 

Estahlisliments in correspondence with the Institution !>>. 16 

Estimates, receipts, and expenditures for 1881 161 

Ethnological Bureau 

appropriation for 162 

Ethnological index by George H. Boehmcr 28,43 

researches, appropriation for 

Ethnological contributions to the Museum ^1 

European fishes in Museum, list of 

Europe, collections from, to Museum 

Evans, W. W. , anthropological correspondence 

Evarts, Hon. William M., memhev ex officio ^^ 

Everhardt, J. F. , anthropological correspondence 444 

Examination of specimens, rules for ^^ ^^ 

Exchange of astronomical telegrams ' ' 

bureaus abroad ^ 

circular j. 

Congressional appropriation suggested for ^^ 

distribution of go 



domestic 



aomesLic — 15 10 

establishments in correspondence with ' 



750 INDEX. 

Page. 

Exchange expenses for 159, 161 

foreign 85 

free freight granted to 15 

government documents 16, 96 

governments exchanging 17 

international 13 

management of 9 

parcels received 16 

Professor Poey's agency 14 

statistics of 16, 85 

Executive Committee, action respecting inaugural reception to President . . . 155, 157 

statue of Professor Henry 155, 156, 164 

investigation of finances and books 162, 163 

members of iv 

report of 158,164,165 

requested special meeting of Board of Regents 164 

special report of 150 

Exhibition, Berlin international Fishery...* 40,73,80.149 

Exhibition of collections in Museum, aj)propriation for 162 

Expenditures of the Institution 159 

buildings 159 

estimated 161 

exchanges 159 

gallery of art 159 

general 159 

publications and research 159 

Explorations 22 et seq. 

Tarlton H. Bean, Alaska 25,47 

Charles Bendire, Arizona, Oregon, «&c 23 

F. H. Gushing, New Mexico 22,48 

W. H. Dall, Alaska 26,47 

F. M. Endlich, West Indies and Demarara 23 

by the Ethnological Bureau 62 

of the Grand Banks 143 

of Gulf Stream 74,75 

Ho wgate Arctic expedition 26, 52 

David S. Jordan and Charles Gilbert, Pacific coast 24,49,53 

of Luray Cavern, Virginia 449 

F. A. Ober, West Indies 24 

H. Eusby, New Mexico 26, 49 

James Stevenson 136 

Extra copies of report ordered to be printed Il 

F. 

Fairbanks, N. K. , specimen of salmon 54 

Farlow, Prof. William G. , report on progress in botany 313 

Fassett, S. M. , crayon head of Professor Henry 3 

photograph of Professor Henry 3 

Fauna north of Cape Cod, additions to 14£> 

of New England, additions to 144 

of North America, fishes added to 143, 144 

of the Grand Banks, exploration of 143 

Faura, P. F., director, Manila, Philippine Islands, Observatory 708 

Feamley, C, director, Christiania, Norway, Observatory 681 



INDEX. 751 

PaRO. 

Fedorenko, J. , director, Kliarkoflf, Russia, Observatory &J0 

Ferguson, Major T. B. , assistant fisli commissioner 74 

in charge of propagation 140, 149 

steam power in tisb-batcliing 81 

Fever, physiological research, by Dr. Wood 21», H-i 

Fossils, collections of .-,(3 

Ficklin, Joseph, director of the Laws Observatory, Columbia, Lllssouri G:U 

Figyelmesey, Consul, collection made by HO, 51 

Finances of the Institution 5, 15^ 

Financial statement of architects of National Museum 175 

Fire-extinguishers presented 70 

Fire-proof safe presented 70 

Fire-proofing of Smithsonian building 6 

Fish, chemical composition and nutritive value of 145 

Fish Commission, annual report of 147 

articles presented to 135 

epitome of the liistory of 147 

laboratories of 142 

origin of 140 

relation to tenth census 1-17, 14B 

resolution of Congress to establish 140 

results of work of 14*2 

the first decade of the 140 

work of 110,41 

Fish eggs, incubating, studies relating to 145 

Fish-hatching, steam power employed in 61 

Fish Hawk, steamer, model of 81 

Fish, specimens of, distributions of sets 147 

Fisher, William J., contributions by 80 

Fisheries, decrease of, investigation of 147 

investigation of methods 141 

statistics and history of 140, 148 

Fishermen and fishing towns, statistics of 78 

of Cape Ann, contributions by 143 

Fishery census of 1880 ''^."' 

exhibit at Berlin 40,73,80,149 

investigations, plan of " 

products, manufacture of, statistics of ~8 

Fishes added to the fauna of North America 143, 144 

collections of, added to the Museum •'^3 

Fishing-grounds, investigation of ' ^ 

towns, statistics of '° 

Fisk, Johu T., donation by ^^ 

Fison, L., memoir on aborigines of Atistralia 32 

Fixtures of Museum, appropriation for ^^^ 

Flags lent for the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 82 

Florence (Italy) Natural History Museum, articles presented by 135 

Observatories, reports of ^^ 

Florida, collections from, to Museum 

Fordham, N. Y., private observatory, report of (see also, Riversdale) 637 

Food-fishes, introduction and multiplication of 1'*! 

Ijropagation of 

Foreign correspondents 

exchange 



752 INDEX. 

Page. 

Foreign ministers, acknowledgements due 15 

Observatories, reports of 671 

Foreman, Edward, assistant, etlinology. National Museum V 

Foerster. X. J. T., director, Berne, Switzerland, Observatory (J74 

Foerster. W. J., director of Koyal Observatory, Berlin, Prussia 674 

Force. William Q., death of 69 

Fort Dodge, Iowa, private observatory, report of 637 

Fossil plants, collection of 59 

Fossils added to the Mitseum 56 

France, commission of international exchange 14 

Fraukfurt-a-Main, Prussia, private Observatory, report of 691 

Free freights 81 

granted to exchanges 15 

Free transmission of astronomical discoveries 12 

Fuel for Museum, appropriation for 162 

Fulton, R. B., director of Observatory of the University of Mississippi 655 

Furniture and fixtures of Museum, appropriation for 162 

G. 

Galhraith, F. G., collections mad« by 46,49,51 

pencil sketches by 137 

Galendo, Don Ignacio, mummy from ^ . . 51 

Galle, Dr. J. G., director, Breslau, Prussia, Universitats Stemwarte 676 

Gallery of art, expenses for 159 

relation of Institution to 63 

Gardiner, Frederick, assisted in work of Fish Commission 74 

Gardner, X. , photograph of Professor Henry 3 

Garfield, James A., Regent, elected President of the United States 1, iv 

Garman, S. E. , contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

investigations 58 

Garrett, Robert, courtesy of 449 

Gas fixtures in Museum, appropriation for 162 

Gasparis, N. de, director Xapoli, Italy, Observatory 713 

Gass, Henry, clerk v 

duties of 9 

Geare, R. I., Fishery Census 79 

Geneva, Switzerland, Observatoire, report of 691 

Genoa (Italy) Natural History Museum, articles presented by 135 

Osservatorio della R. University, report of 691 

Geological Survey, work of 140 

Geology of Lower Louisiana, by Eugene H. Hilgard 32 

progress of, by Dr. George W. Ha wes 221 

Georgetown, British Guiana, Observatory, report of 692 

District of Columbia, College Observatory, report of 639 

Germany, California salmon introduced in 146 

German carp, introduction of 146, 148, 149 

propagation and distribution of 77 

Gilbert, Prof. Charles H., collections made by 24, 46, 47, 49, 53, 54 

contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

explorations 24,49,53 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Gill, David, director Royal Observatory, Cape Town, Africa 678 

Gill, Theodore, contributed to Museum proceedings 41 



INDEX. 753 

Pnge. 

Gill, Theodore, report on progress in zoology 33I 

Glasgow, Missouri, Morrison Observatory, report of 6;}9 

Scotland, Observatory, report of C92 

Gloucester, Mass., propagation of cod-fish 75 

Goldner, G. A., director, Durhato, England, Observatory G89 

Gonzales, , director, Bogota, United States of Colombia, Observatory- 675 

Goode, G. Brown, assistant director National Museum v 

assisted in work of United States Fish Commission 75 

collection of fishes 47, 50, 55 

Commissioner to the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 45, 75, 81 

contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

in charge of Fishery Census of 1880 77 

investigations 58 

fishery exhibit at Berlin 40 

I>repared an account of the United States Pish Commission . 77 

the first decade of the United States Fish Commission 140 

visit to foreign museums 45 

Gore, Prof. J. H., visit to Luray Cave, Virginia 449 

Gotha, Germany,. Stemwarte, report of 692 

Gottingen, Prussia, Eoyal Observatory, report of 692 

Gould, Dr. B. A., director, National Observatory, Cordoba, Argentine Re- 
public 683 

proposed exchange of astronomical telegrams 12 

Government document exchange 16 

exchanges 96 

relation of the Institution to the _ 62 

Governments in exchange with the United States Government 17 

Grand Banks, explorations of the A 143 

Grand Lake Stream Station 76 

Grant, P., director, Glasgow, Scotland, Observatory 692 

Gray, Prof. Asa, investigations 58 

regent rv 

Great Lakes, exploration of 144,146,148 

Gregg, W. T., director of Brooklyn, N. Y., Observatory 628 

Green, W. J., electrician. National Museum v 

Greene, Prof. Dascom, director of WiUiams Proudfit Observatory, Troy, N. Y . 664 

Greenwich, England, Eoyal Obsers^atory, report of 694 

Griffin, Miss M. E., clerk in charge of files v, 9 

Grigorieft; N. F., director, Kronshtadt, Russia, Observatory 701 

Guesde, L., illustrations of Carib antiquities .31,50 

Gulf coast, explorations of 1^ 

stream, explorations of < 4, / 5 

Gutekunst, F., phototyiie of Professor Henry 2 

photograph of Professor Henry 3 

Guyot, Prof. Arnold, physical tables J^ 

Gyld^n, Hugo, director, Stockholm, Sweden, Observatory "24 

H. 

Habel bequest - 5,1.58,159,160,161 

Hagenbach, Ed., director Physikalisches Institut, Basle, Switzerland 673 

Halibut, investigations on 

Halifax, England, Bermerside Observatory, report of 695 

S. Mis. 31 48 



754 INDEX. 

Page. 

Halifax Fishery Commission 147 

Hall, G. R., engraving of Professor Henry 3 

Hall's Arctic Expedition, appropriation for publication of results 162 

Halsted Observatory, Princeton, N. J., report of 657 

Hamburg American Packet Company grants free freight 15 

Hamburg Observatory, Germany, report of 606 

Hamilton bequest 5,158,159,160,161 

Hamlin, Hon. Hannibal, regent iv, 164, 165 

resolution on printing Smithsonian Reports 44 

Hanover, N. H, Shattuck Observatory, report of 640 

Harger, Prof. Oscar, investigations 58,143 

Harrington, Lieut. Com. P. F., director of United States Naval Academy Ob- 
servatory, Annapolis, Md 626 

Harrington, M. W., director of Detroit Observatory, Ann Arbor, Mich 626 

Harris, George H. , anthropological correspondence 444 

Harrison, Mrs., Indian paintings presented by 56 

Hartnup, J., director Liverpool, England, Observatory 704 

Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass., report of- 629 

Hastings, Charles S., and Edward S. Holden, a synopsis of the scientific writ- 
ings of Sir William Herschel 509 

Hastings, N. Y., private Observatory, report of 641 

Havana, University of, acts as agent of exchanges 15 

Haverford College, Pennsylvania, Observatory, report of 642 

Havre do Grace, Md. , shad hatching station at 76 

Hawes, George W., curator, mineralogy. National Museum V 

report on progress in geology 221 

report on progress in mineralogy 299 

Hay, Prof. 0. P., collection of fishes '. 54 

contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

Hayes, Rutherford B., ex-officio presiding officer of the Institution iv 

member ex officio iv 

Heating apparatus in new building 168, 171, 172, 173, 174 

Heilprin, A., contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

Heis, E. , director of Miiuster Observatory, Prussia 712 

Helsingfors, Russia, Observatoria, report of 697 

Henderson, J., turtle from 53 

Henderson, Jj.G., anthropological conti'ibutions by 51,444 

Henry memorial volume 34 

Henry, Joseph, account of investigations relative to illuminating materials . 483 

bust of 63 

memorial volume of 334 

representations of 2, 3 

statue of 2,150,164 

Henshaw, Mr., investigations 58 

Herendeen, Cap t. E. P., assistance given by 25 

Herring Safe Company, fire-proof safe presented by 70 

Herring fisheries 148 

Herron, Joseph, janitor, National Museum V 

Herschel, Sir William, scientific writings of, a synopsis of 509 

Hess, F., director of Fort Dodge, Iowa, Observatory 637 

Hellers, Mr., photograpliic views by 49 

Hirsch, A. , director Neuchatel Observatory 713 

History and origin of the institution 33, 166 

and statistics of fisheries 146, 148 



INDEX. 755 

Page 

History of the Fish Commissiou, epitome of the 147 

Hobbs, Major, disbursing agent of National Museum Building Commis- 
sion 177 

Hobbs, George S., connected with Fish Commission -<j 

Holden, Edward S., director of Washburn Observatory, Madison, Wis {\a:, 

edited reports of astronomical observatories tJ'ia 

report on progress in astronomy ■ iHIi 

and Charles S. Hastings, a synojjsis of the seientilic 

writings of Sir William Herschel o09 

Holland, bureau of scieutitic exchange 14 

Holmgren, Prof. F., on color-blindness 'Jl 

Hollyer, S. , engraving of Professor Henry :{ 

Hooper, Captain, collections made by 4G, 4f,ij;j 

Ho ran, Henry, superintendent of building v 

Hornstein, Dr. C, director of Prague Observatory, Austria 719 

Hoir, Asa, director of Dubuque Observatory 635 

Hough, G.W., director of Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, 111 032 

Houzeen, J. C, director Brussels, Belgium, Observatory 676 

Howe scales, presented by May &Co 70 

Howgate, Capt. H. W., collections presented by 27, 52 

Arctic Expedition 26, 52 

Hudson, Ohio, Observatory, report of 643 

Humming birds, list of „ 32 

Hydro-pneumatic fire-extinguisher presented 70 

I. 

Ichthyology of rivers 144 

Illuminating materials, account of investigation relative to 483 

Inaugural reception of President 4, 155, 1.57, 165 

Income of Institution, to be expended by the Secretary Kw 

Increase of Museum 46 

Incubating fish eggs, studies relating to 145 

Index to Smithsonian publications 28 

Indians, census of ^2 

Inflammation in arteries, by E. O. Shakespeare, M. D 32 

Ingalls, W., oil painting of Professor Henry 3 

Ingersoll, Ernest, explorations by 144 

special agent for Census 79 

Innian Steamship Company grants free freight 1" 

Internal structure of the earth, by J. G. Barnard '-^^ 

International exchanges 1"5, 1=>. 1(5,1:^5,88,96 

Fish Exhibition 1^''> 

Int-erest on money belonging to the Institation 1^9 

Invertebrate animals, investigation of 143 

fossils from McCloud River •jO 

Invertebrates, additions to ^'*|^ 

specimens of, distribution of 14/ 

Investigationsof the United States Fish Commission 141 

Investigation relative to illuminating materials, account of 483 

Iowa City, Iowa, private Observatory, report of ^3 

Ipswich, England, Orwell Park Observatory, report of 697 

Irish, C.W., director of Iowa City, Iowa, private Observatory l>43 

Iron doors for Smithsonian building ' 

Italian Fish Commission, articles presented by ^'-^ 



756 INDEX. 



J. 

Pago. 

Jaiis.?OG, J., director, Mendon, France, Observatory 709 

Janvier, A. J. , crayon head of Professor Henry 3 

Jeifries, Prof. B. Jay, work on color-blindness 21 

Jena, Saxe-Weimar Observatory, report of C97 

Jimenez, F., director, Mexico Observatory , 709 

Johnston, Hon. Joseph E., regent 164 

Jones, George C, anthropological correspondence 444 

Jordan, Prof. David S. , collections made by 24, 46, 47, 53, 54 

contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

explorations 24, 49, 53, 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents 33, 164, 166 

Jouy, P. , collections made by 29, 50 

K. 

Kalocsa, Hungary, Observatory, report of 695 

Kai-lsruhe, Observatory (see Mannheim) 708 

Karr, W. W. , clerk Smithsonian Institution V 

Kasan Observatory, Russia, report of 698 

Kanfmann, Theodore, oil painting of Professor Henry 3 

Kendall, J. J. , specimens from 52 

Kerne, Lieut. L. M. , anthropological correspondence 444 

Kew Observatory, England, report of 698 

Kharkoff, Russia, Observatory, report of 699 

Kidder, Dr., contributions by — 55 

experiments by 145 

Kiel, Prussia, Royal Observatory, report of 699 

Kiew, Russia, Observatory, report of 699 

Kilmarnock, Scotland, Observatory, report of 699 

Kjobenhavn, Denmark, University Observatory, report of 969 

Klinkerfues, Dr. E. F. W., directorof Royal Observatory, Gottingen, Prussia. 693 

Konigsberg, Prussia, University Observatory, report of 700 

Koons, B. F., connected with United States Fish Commission 74 

Kortazzi, J., director, Nicolaev, Russia, Observatory - 713 

Kost, Professor, skull of beaver from 50 

Kowalski,M., director, Kasan, Russia, Observatory 698 

Krakau, Austria, Royal Observatory, report of 700 

Kremsmiinster, Austria, Observatory, report of 701 

Kriiger, N. , director. Gotta, Germany, Observatory 692 

director Helsingfors, Russia, Observatory 697 

Krueger, Prof. Dr. N., director Royal Observatory, Kiel, Prussia 699 

Kronshtadt, Russia, Morskaia Observatory, report of 701 

KumUen, Mr. Ludwig, exi)loration by 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

specimens collected by 52 

Kunes, A., director, Trieste, Austria, Observatory 729 

L. 

Laboratory of natural history 8 

Laboratory work, chemical 21 

Laboratories of Fish Commission 142, 143 



INDEX. 757 

rage. 

Lake Michigan, white fish planted in ^C 

Lamout, J. von, director, Miinchen, Bavaria, Royal Observatory Tl-j 

Laud and fresh wati-r shells of North America Ij-j 

Laudricofl', M. K., director, Kiew, Russia^ Observatory Gi^l 

Lane, J. Homer, death of (;w 

Laugley , S. P. , d ircetor, Allegheny, Pa. , Observatorj- (VJ4 

Larkin, Edgar L., dii-ector of New Windsor, 111., Observatory r..VJ 

Larmour, J. J., anthropological correspondence 44-1 

Latimer collection of antiquities :U 

Lat imer, W. H. , stone image from . . . . , ',1 

Lawrence, George N. , investigations f).-^ 

contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

Lawrence, Kansas, University Observatory, report of t")44 

Laws Observatory, Columbia, Mo. , report of r»:!4 

Le Clear, Thomas, oil painting of Professor Henry [i 

Leech, Daniel, in chai'ge of correspondence v, 9 

visit to Luray Cave, Virginia 449 

Lehigh Uuiversity Observatory, South Bethlehem, Pa., report of (HYi 

Leipzig, Germany, Uni versity Observatory, report of 7(11 

Museum fiir Volkerkuude, articles presented by 135 

Lemberg, Austria, Uuiversity Observatory, report of 702 

Leslie, C. C, collections made by 49, .")4 

Lesquereux Prof. L., work on collections of fossil plants , 59, W 

Leyden, Holland, Rijks Observatory, report of 7(t2 

Ley ton, England, Barclay Observatory, rejtort of 7(>'2 

Lais, E. , director, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Observatory 721 

Library additions for the year 1"^ 

in charge of Miss Turner 9 

8i)ecial gifts received 19 

Lick astronomical department of the University of California, report of MCt 

Light-House Board, facilities granted by 75 

Lindsay, Lord, jtroposed exchange of astronomical telegrams 1 :! 

Linwood, Ohio, private Observatory, report of t>44 

Lisbon, Portugal, Observatories, reports of 7(i;? 

List of periodicals received ^•"' 

Li tchfield Observatory, Clinton, N. Y. , report of (>:52 

Liverpool, England, Observatory, report of 7(il 

Loan of books and apparatus, rules for "1 

of specimens, rules for '' 

Locke, W. M., anthropological correspondence IH 

Lockington, W. N., contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

London, England, Observatories, reports of Tdl 

Lorenzoni, G., director, Padova, Italy, Observatory TIC. 

Loud, Prof. F. H., discussion of Professor Snell's barometric observations 4('<l 

Love, N. C, anthropological correspondence 44 1 

Low, Charles F., anthropological correspondence 44.". 

Liibeck, Germany, Observatory, report of "»'='> 

Lucernariae, by Henry James Clark - _-^'- 

Lund, Sweden, Observatory, report of ~0;) 

Luray Cavern, Virginia, visit to -o, ^^J 

Luther, Prof. E., director. University Observatory, Konigsberg, Prussia 700 

Luther', Robert, director, Diisseldorf, Prussia, Observatory fi^^ 

Lyman, C. S., director of Winchester Observatory of Yale College b.,0 



758 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lyoa, B. H., collection of fossils 56 

Lyons, France, Observatory, report of 706 

M. 

MacLean, Rev. Dr. John, regent iv, 165 

member of executive committee iv, 163 

Maclean, J. P., anthropological correspondence 445 

Madison, Wis. , Washburn Observatory, report of 645 

Madras, India, Observatory, report of 707 

Madrid, Spain, Observatory, report of .* 707 

Mammals, collections of, for the Museum 51 

Manila, Philippine Islau ds, Observatory, report of 708 

Mannheim, Baden, Observatory, report of - 708 

Manufacture of fishery products, statistics of 78 

Marble flooring in new Museum , 156, 164 

Marble, Hon. Edgar M., member ex officio iv 

Marburg, Germany, Observatory, report of 708 

Marine animals, histories of 145 

temperature of blood of 145 

products, investigation of natural history of 78 

Markree Observatory, CoUooney, Ireland, report of 683 

Marshall, Henry, taxidermist. National Museum V, 8 

collections made by 49,52 

Marseilles, France, Observatory, report of 708 

Mason, Prof. OtisT., abstracts of correspondence relative to aboriginal remains. 441 

bibliography of anthropology 403 

memoir on the Guesde's collection 31 

memoir on Latimer collection 31 

report on progress in anthropology 391 

visit to Luray Cave, Virginia 449 

Mather, Fred., assistant at the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 82 

special agent of fisheries 79 

study of fish 144 

May & Co., presented Howe scales 70 

Maynard, Hon. Horace, member ex ofiicio iv 

Mayer, L., director, Ofen, Hungary, Observatory 715 

McCloud River Station 76 

McClure, R. H., director of Linwood, Ohio, i)rivate Observatory 644 

McDonald, Marshall, collections made by 49, 54 

explorations by 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

McDonald, H. W., assistance given by 25 

McFarland, R. W., director of the private Observatory at Columbus, Ohio 635 

McLouth, Lewis, director, Michigan State Normal School Observatory, at 

Ypsilauti, Mich 671 

Medal of the international exhibition at New South Wales, received by the 

Institution 19,66 

Meetings of the Board of Regents 164, 165 

Meigs, General, consulting engineer of National Museum Building Commis- 
sion 167 

medallions in plaster presented by 56 

Meikleham, William, director of the Fordham, N. Y., Observatory 637 

Riversdale, N. Y. , private Observatory . . 659 

Melbourne, Victoria, Observatory, report of 709 



^ INDEX. 759 

Page. 

Members ex officio of the Institution i v 

Memorials t> 

Memorial volume of Professor Henry ;{, :M 

Memoir of Smithson x\ 

Mendon, Franco, Observatory, report of 7l>9 

Menhaden, bibliographic monograj)!! on 14r» 

Menton, J. B., director, Quito, Ecuador, Observatory 721 

Merchants' Line of Steamers (grants free freij^ht 15 

Meriill, Dr. J. C, collections made by 10 

Merrill, G. P., employed in the Fish Commission 7'J 

Mesquita, Francisco de Paula Feireira de, director, Lisbon, Portugal, Ob- 
servatory 70:{ 

Meteorology, publications :?0 

Metz, C. L., anthropological correspondence 44.5 

Mexico, collections from 49 

Mexico, Mexico Observatory, report of 709 

Meyer, Prof. A. B. , courtesy of 62 

Mlchie, P. S., director of West Point, N. Y., Observatory G<»8 

Michigan State Normal School Observatory, Ypsilanti, Mich., report of <Tri 

Milan, Italy, Observatory, report of "10 

Millosevich, E., director of the Venice, Italy, Observatory 7;{2 

Mills, Clarke, bust in plaster of Professor Henry •'? 

Mills, Fisk, bust in jjlaster of Professor Henry ■' 

Mills, Henry, director of Buffalo, N. Y. , Observatory 628 

Milner, James W., death of "7 

explorations by 1'*^ 

observations by ^■*'^ 

work of ^■*" 

Mineralogy, progress report on, by Dr. George W. Hawes ^ 

Miner.als, collections of, for the Museum -'^ 

Miscellaneous collections, volume xvi • _ 

volumes xvii, xviii, xix •'•' 

Microscopical examination of soundings 

Mitchell, Maria, director of the Vassar College Observatory, Poughkeepsie, 

N. Y ^^ 

Mobley, G. B., specimen of carp "^^ 

Modelof steamer "Fish Hawk" J*^ 

Modena, Italy, Observatory, report of ' 

Moller, Axel, director Lund, Sweden, Observatory "^^'^ 

Monographic reports, preparation of 

Montana, collections from, for Museum ^ ' 

Montcalieri, Italy, Observatory, report of ' 

Montsouris, France, Observatory, report of ' 

Moran, Dr., collection of reptiles 

Morgan, B. , anthropological correspondence '■' 

Morrison Observatory, Glasgow, Mo. , report of ;• 

Mouchez, E., director, Paris, France, National Observatory ■ - - - ' i' 

Mount Hamilton, Cal., Lick Astronon.ical Department of the University of ^^^^ 

California, report of ■ • 

Mount Holvoke Seminary Observatory, South Hadley, Mass., report of -W 

Mount Lookout, Ohio, Cincinnati Observatory, report of ^^J 

Mummy from cave in Coahuila .^^^ 

Munich, Bavaria, Royal Observatory, report of ^ ^- 

Munster, Prussia Observatory, rei)ort of ' ~ 

Murray, J. , samples of sea bottom, placed in hands of 



760 INDEX. 

Page. 

Museum building, use of, granted for inaugural reception 4, 155, 157, 165 

collections of, additions to 110 

of comparative zoology, Cambridge, specimens for 55 

marble or tile flooring in - 156, 164 

specimens received and distributed in 139 

Mysloif, Col. Peter, director, Vilna, Eussia, Observatory 733 

N. 

Naples, Italy, Observatory, report of 713 

Nashville, Tenn., private Observatory, report of 648 

National Academy of Sciences, relation of Institution to 65 

National Museum 38, 44 

additions to collections of 110 

application for use of building 166 

appropriations for 161 

appropriation for furniture and fixtures 162 

assistants in the Museum v, 61 

Bulletins 38 

courtesies from foreign museums 61 

distribution of duplicate specimens 60 

Ethnological Bureau 62 

increase of Museum 46 

officers and assistants V 

proceedings 38 

relation of Smithsonian Institution to 6 

reorganization of force 46 

specimens received and distributed 139 

systematic nomenclature 38 

work done in 57 

work done on collections 58 

work of 140 

National Museum Building Commission, report of 165, 167 

nearly completed 1,44 

proposed disjilays 45 

Natural history, laboratory of 8 

Natural history of marine products '^B 

Naval Academy Observatory, Annapolis, Md., report of 626 

Observatory, Bergen, Norway, report of ". 673 

Observatory, Washington, D. C, report of 665 

Navy Department, flags lent by 82 

Nelligar, T. S., watchman 7 

Nelson, E. H., collections made by 46,47,51,52 

Neptunus Company, articles presented by 135 

Netherlands- American Steam Navigation Company, grants free freight 15 

Neuchatel, Switzerland, Cantonal Observatory, report of 713 

Newark, N. J. , private Observatory, report of 648 

New England, fauna of, additions to 144 

New Haven, Conn., Winchester Observatory of Yale College, report of 650 

Newington, Conn. , private Observatory, report of 651 

New Mexico, explorations in ....22,26,48,49, 136 

New South Wales, international exhibition awarded medal to the Institution. 19, 66 

New species of fish 145 

Newton, Edward, collections made by 50, 53 

New Windsor, 111., Observatory, report of 652 



INDEX. in I 

Page. 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company grants free freight 1'. 

New York and Mexico Steamship Company grants free freight 1-". 

New York City Observatories, reports of ti-J-' 

New Zcahuid, California, salmon introduced in IH> 

Nicholson, Walter L., preparation of topographical relief model 'iU 

Nicholls, Dr. H. H., collections made by •'>0^:'>'^ 

Nicolaev, Russia, Observatory, report of '^-^ 

Nicolaevskaia Glavnaia Observatory, Poulkovo, Russia, report of 7 1'-» 

Nomenclature of North American birds, revision of 'lO 

North America, fauna of, fishes added to I'l^ 

North American birds, catalogue of '*0 

revision of nomenclature of ""J 

North German Lloyd grants free freight ^-^ 

privileges granted by, to the Fishery Exliil>iti()n ^1 

Northfield, Minn., Carleton College Astronomical Observatory, r.'port of .... C.>4 

Northville, Mich., hatching station at '^^ 

Norwegian Fish Commission, articles presented by ^-'-^ 

Northwestern Telegraph Company, acknowledgment to ^1- 

Nottingham, England, Alexandria Park Observatory, report 'of '^14 

Nonrse, Prof. J. E., narrative of Captain Hall's expedition "0 

Noyes, William E., assistance given by ' 

Nutritive value offish 

O. 

Ober, F. A., explorations and collections made by 24,.31,u0,.v^ 

Objects and results of the United States Fish Commission ^J_'- 

Observations, barometric, discussion of ._ ^^ 

Observatories, reports of astronomical _~' 

Odessa, Russia, Observatory, report of ' ^^ 

Oelrichs & Co., privileges granted by ^'^. 

Ofeu, Austria, Observatory, report of ' '' 

Officers and assistants of the Institution and the National Museum 

0-Gyalla, Hungary, Astro-Physical Observatory, report of ' -j 

Oilpaintingsof Professor Henry - ^^. 

Olmutz, Austria, Observatory, report of ' ^_^ 

Oregon, explorations in j^^. 

Orfe, golden, acclimatization of .^.^ ^^ 

Origin and history of the Smithsonian Institution ■ • ^^^ 

of Fish Commission - 

Orwell Park Observatory, Ipswich, England, report of 'l'^ 

Osborn, H. L. , assisted in work of Fish Commission ^'^^ 

collecting material ^,^ 

Osten-Sacken, C. R., catalogue of diptera ^,~^ 

Oterendorp ifc Co., articles presented by - 

Oudemans, J. A. C, director Utrecht, HoUand, Observatory _-^, 

Oxford, England, Observatories, reports of.— - — - 

Oxford, Mississippi, Observatory of the University, report of ;;;;;;;;;; ^^^ 

Oyster, explorations for 

P. 

12 

Pacific Cable Company, acknowledgment to !.".'..' "24, 49, r,3, 144 

Pacific coast, explorations of ""V''\", ' ' l^ 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company gi-ants tree freight ^.. 

Pacific Steam Navigation Company grants free freight 



762 INDEX. 

Page. 

Packages distributed 88 

Packard, Professor, dredgiugs by 143, 148 

Padua, Italy, Observatory, report of 716 

Painting of Carib antiquities 50 

Paintings, collection of, by Catlin 56 

Palenque tablet, by Dr. Eau 29 

Paleontological collection, work done to 59 

Palisa, J., director, Pola, Austria, Observatory 718 

Palmer, Edward, antkropological correspondence 445 

Palmer, Joseph, modeller, National Museum V 

assistant at the Berlin Fishery E xhibition 82 

preparation of plaster casts 8 

Palermo, Italy, Royal Observatory, report of 716 

Panama Eailroad Company grants free freight 15 

Paramatta, New South Wales, Observatory 717 

Parcels received for distribution 15, 16 

Paris, France, National Observatory, report of ' 717 

Paris International Congress and Exjiosition relative to Electricity 65 

Parker, Hon. Peter, member of the Executive Committee iv, 157, 108, 164, 165 

National Museum building commission 169 

presented report of Executive Committee 164, 165 

regent 164,165 

Parma, Italy, Observatory 718 

Parsonstown Observatory, Birr Castle, Ireland, report of (see Birr Castle) . .. 674 

Patent Office, chemical analyses for 22 

Paul, Prof. H. M., director Tokio, Japan, Observatory 728 

Payne, William W., director of Carleton College Observatory, Northfield, 

Minn 654 

Pennsylvania Railroad granted free freight 82 

grants special rates of freight 15 

Penobscot River Station 76 

Periodicals received. List of 98 

Perry, Rev. S.J. , director Stonyhurst College, England, Observatory 726 

Peters, C. N. F., director Observatory, Altona, Prussia 672 

Peters, C. W. F., director of Litchfield Observatory, Clinton, N. Y 634 

proposed exchange of astronomical telegrams 12 

Peterson, Kuno, articles presented by 135 

Phelps, N. Y., Red-House Observatory, report of 655 

Philadelphia, Pa, Central High School Observatory, report of 656 

Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad granted free freight 81,82 

Phillips, Barnet, special agent of fisheries 79 

Photographic views made in New Mexico and Arizona 136, 137 

Photographs of Professor Henry 2 

Physical Institute, Basle, Switzerland, report of 673 

Physical tables by Prof. Arnold Guy ot 38 

Physics, progress report on, by Prof. George F. Barker 235 

Physiological rcvsearch, Dr. Wood , on Fever 29, 32 

Pickering, Edward C, director of Harvard College Observatory 629 

Pirz, Anthony, collection of minerals 56 

Plantamour, E., director Geneva, Switzerland, Observatory 691 

Plants, collection of, from Japan 56 

Plaster casts prepared by Joseph Palmer & Son 8 

Plyer, Charles W., director of tlie Elizabeth, N. J., Observatory 636 

Poey, Prof. Felipe, acts as agent of scientific exchange 14 



INDEX. 



763 



Page. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe, collections made by .^)0, .^>3, fjS 

Pogson, N. R., director Madras, India, Observatory 707 

Pola, Austria, Xaval Observatory, report of 718 

Polaris expedition, relation of Inst itution to C:? 

Pollock, John S., clerk v,9 

Pompeii, duplicates from ^-^ 

Port Louis, Mauritius, Observatory, report of 718 

Porter, Dr. Noab, motion by ^^^ 

regent iv, 165 

Pougbkeepsie, N. Y. , Vassar College Observatory, report of 056 

Poulkovo, Russia, Observatory, report of ^19 

Potsdam, Prussia, Astro-Physical Institute, report of 718 

Powell, Prof. J. W. , in charge of Ethnological Bureau 62 

Prague, Austria, University Observatory, report, of 719 

Preparation, care, and manufacture of fishery products, statistics of 78 

Preservation of collections, appropriations for 1^1 

Prime, Frederick, jr., anthropological correspondence -l^o 

Princeton, N. J., Observatory of the College of New Jersey, report of 657 

Pritchard, 0., director Oxford, England, Observatory ''^^ 

Pritchett, C. W., director of Morrison Observatory, Glasgow, Missouri 639 

Prizes awarded the United States at the Beriin Fishery Exhibition H2 

Proceedings of the Board of Regents, journal of 164 

of National Museum '^^'^^ 

Products of fisheries, statistics of ' 

Progress report on Museum building 

Propagation, artificial ' 

division of the United States Fish Commission > •» 

offish 

. e 140 

importance ot 

of food fishes 

of the salmonidiB 

Protection and culture of fish, investigations of ' 

Providence, R. I. , Seagrave Observatory, report of ^ 

Publications 159-161 

and research, expenses for 

distribution of ^., 

of the Institution, list of ]Z 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge -_^ 

Twenty-second volume ~ 

Palenque tablet, by Dr. Ran ~ 

Physiological research ; Dr. Wood on Fever ^^^ 

Meteorology— tables of rainfall ; • "^". " ' ' ; ' , 

Archaeology (G. Latimer, F. A. Ober, L. H. Morgan, L. Tison) -U 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous collections j^- 

Sixteenth volume - " 

Seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth volumes ■ • 

Memoir of James Smithson, by W. J. Rhees |^-|/ 

Henry memorial volume 

Digest of atomic weights, by G. F. Becker ;^^ 

The Toner lectures - - • ; '^^ 

Lecture on sanitary drainage, by G. E. Waring ^^ 

Physical tables, by Prof. Guyot ^ 

Bullerins of the National Museum ^^ 

Proceedings of the National Museum 



764 INDEX. 



Publications of the Institution — Continued. 

Systematic nomenclature , 41 

Index to Smithsonian publications 28 

Smithsonian Annual Report 42, 43 

Pueblos, explorations of 136, 137 

Pujazon, C. director San Fernando, Spain, Observatory 722 

Pump in Smithsonian grounds 7 

Punderson, L. L., engraving of Professor Henry 3 

Q. 

Quebec, Canada, Observatory, report of 720 

Queen's College Observatory, Cork, Ireland, report of 683 

Quito, Ecuador, Observatory, report of 721 

E. 

Eadcliffe Observatory, Oxford, England, report of 715 

Railroad companies granting free freight 81 

Rainfall tables 30 

Ramsey, Hon. Alex,, member ex-officio iv 

Ransburg, W. C. anthropological correspondence 445 

Rathbun, Richard, assistant of United States Fish Commission 74 

arrangement of invertebrate duplicates 147 

contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

dredging by 143 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Ran, Dr. Charles, curator, archaeology, National Museum V 

investigations in archaeology 58 

Palenque tablet 29 

visit to Luray Cave, Virginia 449 

Reading-room established in the Institution 20 

Receipts, estimated 161 

in cash, by the Institution 159 

of specimens 139 

Recex^tion to President in New Museum 155, 157, 165 

Recipients of government exchanges 97 

Recognition of Institution by foreign goA^emments 65 

Redding, B. B., anthrojiological correspondence 445 

Red Hill Observatory, Churts, England, report of 682 

Red-House Observatory, Phelps, N. Y., report of 665 

Reed, George H., paymaster of Steamer " Fish Hawk " 74 

Rees, J. K., director of Columbia College, New York, Observatory 653 

Washington University Observatory, Saint Louis, 

Mo 062 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution iv 

Board of, journal of proceedings 164 

published journals of 33 

resolutions by .' 164, 165, 166 

resolution granting Museum for Inaugural reception 4 

Reichmann, R., crayon head of Professor Henry 3 

Reinsch, A., anthropological correspondence 446 

Relation of the Institution to other establishments 62 

Alaska Commercial Company 64 

Centennial Commission archives j> 64 



INDEX. 765 

Kolrition of the Institution to other estahlishmputs — Continued. 

Gallery of Art C'.i 

Government {]•> 

National Academy of Sciences (;"> 

National Museum 

Paris International Congress and Exposition, relative to electricity f..') 

Polaris expedition <;:{ 

Recognition by foreign governments (]."> 

Remains, aboriginal, correspondence relative to 441 

Reorganization of Museum force 46 

Repayment from ai)i)ropriation for the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 83 

Report, annual, of Secretary 1 

by James Stevenson i:U5 

of Fred. W.Taylor 107 

Reports of astronomical observatories 6'2',i 

the United States Fish Commission 147 

scientific progress 181 

Reptiles, collection of, added to Museum 53 

Representations of Professor Henry 2 

busts in plaster 3 

crayon dravrings 3 

engravings 3 

oil paintings 3 

photographs 2 

portraits 2 

wood-cuts 3 

Research, expenses for 159, 161 

Researches, account of 20 

Resolutions by Board of Regents . 165 

expenditure of income 165 

disposal of Virginia bonds 166 

flooring in Museum building 164 

preservation of tomb of Smithson 165 

statue of Professor Henry 1<>4 

thaijks to William J. Rhees 1*>G 

use of Museum building for Inaugural reception 4, 164, 165 

Resolution by Congress to print extra co])ies of Report ii 

Resolutions of Executive Committee : 

Marble or tile flooring in new Museum building 156 

Statue of Professor Henry l-'-'- 1-'^ 

Use of Museum building for Inaugural reception 156, 1.57 

Resolution by Senator Hamlin regarding printing of Smithsonian reports 44 

Respeghi, L. , director, Rome, Italy, Observatory ~'2*2 

Restoration of the Declaration of Independence ""' 

Results of the United States Fish Commission 72, 142 

Reynolds, Dr. Elmer R., visit to Luray Cave, Virginia 440 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk of the Institution iv, V, 8, 9 

Journals of the Board of Regents 33 

Memoir of James Smithson -^ 

origin and history of the Smithsonian Institution 33 

publications by ^^"^ 

thanks of the Board of Regents to 1G6 

visit to Luray Cave, Virginia ^^^ 



766 INDEX. 

Page. 

Rice, H. J., studies of, iu fish embryology 145,146 

Ridgway, Robert, collections made by 49, 52 

curator, ornithology. National Museum v 

investigations 58 

publications in the proceedings of the National Museum.. . 40,41 

Riley, Prof. C. V., investigations 58 

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Nautical Observatory, report of 721 

Riversdale, N. Y., private Observatory, report of G59 

Robinson, A. P., anthropological correspondence 446 

Robinson, T. R., director Armagh, Ireland, Observatory 672 

Rochester, N. Y., Warner Observatory, report of 660 

Rock fish, artificial propagation of - 76 

Rockwell, Charles H., director Tarrytown, N. Y., private Observatory 664 

Rockwell, J. E., assistant at the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 79,82 

Rodgers, Rear- Admiral John, director United States Naval Observatory 665 

Rome, Italy, Observatories, reports of 721,722 

Rosse, Earl of, director Birr Castle, Ireland, Observatory 674 

Routine work of the Institution 8 

Routine of summer operations of Fish Commission 142 

Rugby, England, Observatories, reports of 722 

Rules for the examination of specimens 107 

Rlimker, Dr. Georg, F. W., director Hamburg, Germany, Observatory 697 

Rusby, H. H., collections made by 26,49 

explorations 26, 49 

Russell, H. C, director Sydney, New South Wales, Government Observatory. 727 

Russian Fish Commission, articles presented by 135 

Rutherfurd, L. M. , director New York City private Observatory ' 653 

Ryder, J. A., contributed to Museum proceedings 41 

embryological history of fish 146 

explorations by 144 

S. 

Safe, Herring, presented 70 

Safford, T. H., director Williamstown, Mass., Observatory 671 

Saint Louis, Missouri, Observatory of Washington University, report of 662 

Salaries, estimated expenditures for 161 

Salmon, bibliographic monograph on 145 

explorations for 144 

planting of 146 

Salraonida?, propagation of the 76 

Samples of sea-bottom 59 

San Fernando, Spain, Observatory, report of 722 

Sanitary drainage, by George E. Waring 36 

Santiago, Chili, National Observatory, report of 723 

Sawitsch, A., director, St. Petersburg, Russia, Observatory 723 

Sawyer, E. F., director of Caml)ridgeport, Mass., Observatory 631 

Sayre Observatory, of Lehigh University, South Bethlehem, report of 627,662 

Schaefter, Miss F. R., copyist, National Museum V, 9 

Schaeffer, Mr. , embryological history of fish 146 

Schiaparelli, G. V. , director, Milano, Italy, Observatory 710 

Scientific progress, reports on 181 

Schmidt, J. F. J. , director, Athens, Greece, Observatory 673 

Schonfeld, E., director. University Observatory, Bonn, Prussia. 675 

Schott, Charles A., preparation of rainfall tables 30 



INDEX. 707 

Schuonnaiiii, C. W., assistant snperintondent of building v 

Scluiltz. Ilornian, director, Upsala, Sweden, Observatory 7:j() 

Schnrz, Hon. Carl, member ex officio iv 

Schuster, Car], articles presented by l:{,-, 

Sclnvarz, L., director Dcrpt, Russia, Observatory 684 

Sclnverin, Germany, Observatory, report of 70:1 

Scientific writings of Sir William Ilerscbel 50<j 

of James Smithson l(j(j 

Sciidder, C. W., assistant in fisheries 7«j 

Scudder, N. P., collection made by 14:5 

Scudder, S. H., systematic nomenclature 41 

Scup, bibliographic monograph on 14-, 

Sea bottom, samples of 59 

Seabroke, G. M., director Rugby school, England, Observatory 722 

Seagrave, F. E., director of the Seagrave Observatory, Providence, R. 1 659 

Seagrave Observatory, Providence, R. I. , report of G51) 

Senfteuberg, German j*, Observatory, report of 72:) 

Serviss, G. P., director of Brooklyn, N. Y., Observatory G27 

Sewer, construction of, appropriation for 102 

Shad, explorations for 144 

Shad-hatching 76 

Shakespeare, Dr. E. O., on inllammatiou in arteries :>2 

Sharpless, Isaac, director of Haverford College, Pennsylvania, Observa- 
tory 042 

Shattuck Observatory, Hanover, N. H. , report of 040 

Shells, collections of, added to Museum 55 

Sherman, General William T., regent 164-165 

member of executive committee i v, 157, 163 

chairman Museum Building Commission 165 

motions by 105, IOC) 

Sherman, Hon. John, member ex officio i v 

Sherman, meteorologist of the Howgate expedition 'M 

Shindler, A. Z., artist, National Museum v, 8 

Shippeu, Edward, anthropological correspondence 446 

Shipping agents of exchanges ^^^ 

Sinter, W., director of Observatory, Wien, Austria 735 

Skircoat, England, Bermerside Observatory, report of 696 

Small, E. E., porpoise from •''- 

Smillie, T. W. , photographer, National Museum v 

photograph of Prof. Henry ~ 

photographs by 8 

visit to Luray Cave, Va 449 

Smiley, C. W., in charge of clerical force of Fish Census 79 

Smith, Charles J., director of Hiulson, Ohio, Observatory 643 

Smith, H. S. S., director of Lawrence, Kansas, University Observatory 644 

Smith, J. J., contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

Smith, J. S., mate of steamer Fish Hawk 74 

Smith, Prof. Hamilton J., soundings placed in hands of 50 

Smith, R., contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

Smith. Sander.son, connected with U. S. Fish Commission - ^ 74 

investigations 58, 143 

Smithson and his bequest ^'j" 

funds, condition of ^^° 

33 
memoir of 

scientific writings of ^^ 



768 INDEX. 

Tago. 

Smithson's effects collected 3 

exhibited in Regents' room 4 

tomb, repairs to 4-165 

Smithsonian Annual Eej)ort8 for 1878 and 1879 42 

Smithsonian Building fi 

elevator 7 

facilities of approach 7 

fire-proofing 6 

iron doors 7 

protection of 7 

Smithsonian Institution 1 

history of 33 

officers and assistants V 

origin and history of 166 

relation to National Museum 6 

relation to other establishments 62 

Smyth, C. P., director, Royal Observatory, Edinburg, Scotland 690 

Smythe, Mr., specimens received from 50 

Survey of the Great Lakes 146 

Snell, Prof. E. S., barometric observations of, discussion of 461 

Soundings, microscopical examination of 59 

South America, collections from, for Museum ...." 50 

South Bethlehem, Pa., Sayre Observatory of Lehigh University, report of.. . 662 

South Hadley, Mass., Observatory at Mount Holyoke Seminary, report of 663 

South Kensington Mnsenm, courtesy of directors of 62 

Special donations 70 

Special report of executive committee 150 

Specimens collected in New Mexico and Arizona 138 

distribution of 17,60,147 

examination of, rules for .' 107 

loan of 71 

receipts and distribution 139 

Speyer, Germany, Observatory 724 

Spray, S. J., anthropological correspondence 446 

Starbuck, Mr. , history of whale-fishery 145 

State Department, co-operation with, international exchanges 14 

Stations for salmon-hatching 76 

for shad-hatching 76 

Statistics and history of fisheries 146, 148 

of exchanges 16, 85 

Statue of Professor Henry 2,150,164 

Stavanger Preserving Company, articles presented by 135 

Steam-heating apparatus for Museum, appropriation for 162 

Steam-power employed in hatching of fish 81 

Steamship lines for Brazil, Texas, Florida, and Nassau, N. P., grant for free 

freight 15 

Steamer employed by Fish Commission 142 

" Bache," dredging by 140, 148 

"Fish Hawk" 73,74 

mode] of 81 

Stearns, Silas, collections made by 49, 54 

exploration by 144 

special agent of fisheries 79 

Stephan, E., director, Marseilles, France, Observatory 709 



ixDEX. 769 

Pagp. 

Stephenson, James, explorations '2*2, G2 

collections made by Hi, IS I'J, 'A 

rex)ort of explorations IHG 

Stockholm, Sweden, Observatory, report of 7*24 

Stoerzer, Mrs. L. clerk v 

translation of letters '.» 

Stone iniajie from W. H. Latimer f.l 

Stone, E. J., director, Radclift'e Observatory, Oxford, England 7\C> 

Stone, Livingston, explorations by 144 

specimens of salmon r>4 

Stone, Ormond, director of the Cincinnati, Ohio, Observatory 048 

Stonyhnrst, England, College Observatory, report of 7'26 

Story, W. W., arrangement with, respecting statue of Professor Heury 150, 164 

letter to Professor Baird ir>l 

St. Petersburg, Russia, Observatory, report of 7'2:{ 

Strassburg, Germany, Observatory, report of 727 

Street cars near Smithsonian building 7 

Stresser, G., director, Kremsmiinster, Austria, Observatory 701 

Striped bass, propagation of 71) 

Strong, Lorenzo, anthropological correspondence 446 

Struve, O. von, director Poulkovo, Russia, Observatory 719 

Swan, James G., anthropological correspondence 446 

collections made by 47, 53, 54 

contributed to Museum Proceedings 41 

special agent of fisheries. . — '''J 

Swedish Fish Commission, articles presented by 1-55 

Sweitzer, Lieutenant, II. S. A., specimen presented by 54 

Swift, Lewis, director of Warner Observatory, Rochester, N. Y 060 

Switzerland, Bureau of International Exchange 14 

Sydney, N. S. Wales, exhibition, medal awarded to the Institution 19, 66 

Government Observatory, report of 727 

Synopsis of the scientific writings of Sir William Herschel 5(»'.t 

Systematic nomenclature "^l 

T. 

Tacchini, P., director Rome, Italy, Observatory "'il 

Talmage, Charles George, director Barclay Observatory, Leyton, England .. 702 

Tanner, Lieutenant Z. L., commander of steamer "Fish Hawk" ~4 

Tarrytown, N. Y., private Observatorj^, report of W'-* 

Tashkent, Russia, Observatory - '^-'^ 

Taylor, Dr. F. W., chemist of the Institution v, 23 

chemical examinations •''^ 

report of ^^'' 

visit toLuray Cave, Va •*■'•• 

Taylor, William B., assistant Smithsonian Institution v,9 

Taylor, William J., anthropological correspondence ^^]^ 

Tebbutt, John, director Windsor, New South Wales, private Observatory.... 737 

Telegraph, astronomical announcements by 

companies sending astronomical announcements free of charge ... 1'^ 

Temperature of blood of marine animals ^ "_' 

of water in relation to movements offish 1 '•> 

Temple, W., director Florence, Italy, Observatory J^'-"' 

Temple Observatory, Rugby, England, report of ' "" 

Tench, acclimatization of 

S. Mis. 31 49 



770 -INDEX. 

Page. 

Texas, zoological position of; Museum Bulletin No. 17 39 

Thiele, T. N., director, Kjobenhavn, Denmark, Observatory 700 

Thompson, Hon. Richard W., member ex officio iv 

Thorn, H. T., anthropological correspondence 447 

Ticheuor process of reducing ores of gold 22 

Tile fish, observations on 75 

Tile-flooring in new Museum 156, 164 

Titcomb, H. E., anthropological correspondence — 447 

Todd, C, Government astronomer, Adelaide, South Australia 672 

Todd, D. P., director Amherst, Massachusetts, College Observatory 625 

Tokio, Japan, Observatory of the the Dai- Jakee 728 

Mombusho, plants from.... 56 

Tomb of Smithson, repairs to 165 

Toner lectures, account of 32, 36 

Topographical relief model of country proposed 20 

Torino, Italy, Eoyal Observatory, report of 728 

Toulouse, France, Observatory, report of 728 

Translation of foreign letters 9 

Transportation department > 9 

Trevandrum, India, Observatory, report of 729 

Trieste, Austria, Observatory, report of 729 

Trinity College Observatory, Dublin, Ireland 685 

Trochilidae, by Daniel Giraud Elliot 32 

catalogue of 41 

Troy, N. Y., Williams Proudfit Observatory, report of 664 

True, F. W. , assistant at the Berlin Fishery Exhibition 79, 81 82 

Tryon, George W. , jr., on strepomatidae 32 

Tulse Hill Observatory, London, England, report of 704 

Turin, Italy, Observatory 728 

Turnbridge Wells, England, Crowborough Beacon Observatory, report of 729 

Turner, Lucien M. , collections made by 47 

Turner, Miss J. A., in charge of library v,9 

Twickenham, England, Observatory, report of 729 

U. 

Ulke, H., crayon head of Professor Henry 3 

oil painting of Professor Henry 3 

photograph of Professor Henry 2 

United States Berlin International Fishery Exhibition 80 

Cable Company, acknowledgment to 12 

Fish Commission 72 

account of, by G. Brown Goode 77 

collections made by 46, 49, 54 

Fishery census of 18S0 .■ 77 

University of Havana acts as agent of exchanges 15 

Upham, E. P. , clerk, arclueology. National Museum v 

Upsala, Sweden, Observatory of the University, report of 729 

Utrecht, Holland, Observatory, report of 731 

V. 

Valencia, Ireland, Observatory of the London Meteorological Office 732 

Valentiner, W. , director, Mannheim, Baden, Observatory 708 

Van Arsdale, director of the Newark, N. J., private Observatory 648 

Van de Lande Bakhuijzen, H. G., director, Leyden, Holland, Observatory .. 702 



INDEX. 771 

Prrc. 

Van Vlict, F. C, snrgeon of steamer "Fish Hawk" "4 

Varshava, Russia, Observatory, rej)ort of "•^•2 

Vassar College Observatory, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., re])(trt of t'''>6 

Yeuico, Italy, Observatory of the Naval Institute, report of 7:W 

Vergara, J. I., director, Quito, Ecuador, Observatory "-l 

Verrill, Prof. A. E., couuected with United States Fish Commission ~\ 

contributed to Museum Proceedings -ll 

estimate of additions to the fauna of New England H4 

explorations by l**"* 

investigation of invertebrate animals >"', M3 

monographs by ' '■* 

supervision of investigations !••» 

Victoria, Observatory (see Melbourne) _ ^ ^|''^ 

Vienna Observatories (we Wien) /.^.4, /.?.j 

Vigo, Seuor Don Felipe Mendez de, courtesy of ^1-' 

Vilna, Russia, Observatory, report of • - '-^'^ 

,,• • • 1 ,io 158, loll, IbO, IGl, IttO 

Virginia bonds 

Vodges, Lieutenant, fossils collected by _ ' 

Von Lamont, J., director, Munich, Bavaria, Royal Observatory ^ J- 

VonStruve, O., director, Poulkovo Obsei-vatory '1-' 

W. 

IT-- 7M 

Wahriiftr, Observatory, Austria, sec \\ien 

Waite, Hon. Morrison R., chancellor of the Institution '^^ 

president of the hoard of regents '_^__ 

Walker, Gen. Francis A. , arrangement made with ^J_'^ 

AValker, S. T., collections made by '^^^ 

War Department, flags lent by " 

Ward, James W., director of Buffalo, N. Y., Observatory i - 

Waring, George E., on sanitary drainage ^j.^^ 

Warner Observatory, Rochester, N. Y. , report of ^ J^ 

Warsaw Observatory, Russia (see Varshava) ^.'^^ 

Washburn Observatory, Madison, Wis. , report of • - - _ 

Washington, D. C, United States Naval Observatory, report^of 

Washington University Observatory, Saint Louis Mo., report of _ ^^ 

Wastokoflf, J., director of Warsaw Observatory, Russia ^^_;; 

Water fixtures in museum, appropriation for ....----• - 

Waters of the United States, investigation of, by the Fish Commussn.n 

Weiss, Prof. Dr. Edmunds, director of Wahring Observa ory 

Weisse, M., director of Royal Observatory, Krakau, Austria ^^^ 

Wellington, New Zealand, Government Observatory ]^^ 

West Indian antiquities collected by George Latimer "^^^ 

West Indies, collections.from, for Museum ^/^/^^/^ 2:?. ->4 

explorations in ^^^■^^ 

■ WestPoint,N.Y., Observatory, report of.--- --- ^.^ 

Western Union Telegraph Company, acknowledgment to -- •-"-■-■;■ j^. 

W^hale Fishery, History of __ ~.y, 

Whalley, England (.see Stonyhnrst) ^^„ 

Wheeler, Capt. G. M. , vertebrate fossils trom ,_^, 

collections of fossils ^^^ 

Wheeler, Hon. William A., member ex officio V.-'.'-'n-. l(>1,lf.r, 

regent ; ^^ 

White Charles A., contributed to Museum Proceedings 

White, Charles , ^^^^^^^_ palaeontology. National Museum 



772 INDEX. 

Page. 

White, Charles A., investigations 58 

visit to Lnray Cave, Va., 449 

work to paleoutological collections 59 

White, Surgeon, U. S. N., collections made by 46,48,52 

White Cross line of Antwerp, free freight 15 

Whitefish, bibliographic monograph on 145 

European, introduction of 14(i 

hatching-station - 76 

Whitney, J. L. , anthropological correspondence 448 

Wien, Austria, Observatories, reports of 734,735 

Wilcox, W. A., special agent of fisheries 79 

Wilhelmshaven, Germany, Observatory, report of 736 

Willet Points, N. Y. , field Observatory, report of 669 

Williams, Proudfit, Observatory, Troy, N. Y., report of 664 

Williamson, J. M., anthropological correspomlence 448 

Williamstown, Mass., Observatory, report of 671 

Wilna Observatory, Eussia (see Vilna) 732 

Wilson, Prof. E. B., investigations 58 

Wilson, J. M., director. Temple Observatory, Rugby, England 722 

Wilthers, C. T., anthropological correspondence 448 

Winchester Observatory of Yale College, New Haven, Conn., rej^ort of 650 

Windsor, New South Wales, private Observatory ..., 737 

Winnecke, A., director, Strassburg, Germany, Observatory ^ 727 

Withers, Hon. Robert E., regent iv, 164, 165 

Wolf, Rudolf, director, Observatory, Zurich, Switzerland 738 

Wood, Dr., physiological research on fever 29,32 

Wood, Rev. Preston, anthropological correspondence 443 

Wood-cuts of Prof. Henry 3 

Wood's Holl, Mass., cod-hatching at 75 

Woodman, H. T., anthropological correspondence 448 

Work done on collections 58 

in museum ■ 57 

Wright, S. Hart, anthropological correspondence 448 

Wyoming Territory, collections from, for Museum 49 

Y. 

Yale College Observatory, New Haven, Conn., report of 650 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, collections by -- - 141 

Young, C. A., director of the College of New Jersey Observatories 657 

Y^'oung, Clarence B., assistant, Smithsonian Institution V, 9 

Ypsilanti, Michigan, State Normal School Observatory, report of 671 

Z. 

Zi-ka-wei, China, Observatory '^•^S 

Zoological position of Texas, Museum Bulletin No. 17 39 

Zoology, progress, report on, by Prof. Theodore Gill 331 

Zufa village, census of **^'* 

Zurich, Switzerland, Observatory, report of 738 

O 



li 



P 




MITHSON AN 



i 



m\ 



m 



lllliMlllUi:;i 

3 9088 00944 9 




