


is^- 



:y 



.X' 



A 



j^«^ 






*^^^ -^ 



ESS, ) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. i Mis. Doc 
t. i \ No. S3. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING THK 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1863. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVF, RNJIENT PRINTING OFFICE, 

1864. 



In the House of Representatives, June 28, 1864. 
Resolved, That five thousand extra copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution be 
printed — two thousand for the Institution, and three thousand for the use of the members of 
this House. 



ANNUAL EEPOliT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAI INSTITUTION 



SHOWING 

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTI- 
TUTION UP TO JANUARY, 1SC4, AND THE PROCEEDINGS 
OF THE BOARD UP TO MARCH 16, 1864. . 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establish- 
ing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the 
Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents: 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution, during the year 1863. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 1863. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to March 16, 1864. 

4. Appendix. 



Respectfully submitted. 



R. B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 



LETTER 



OF THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

C O M ai U N I C A T I N G 

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CON- 
DITION OF THE INSTITUTION FOE THE YEAR 1863. 



JUXE 23, 18G4. — Read, and ordered to bo printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, June 27, 1864. 
Sir : In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit 
to the House of Representatives of the United States the annual report 
of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution for the year 1SG3. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. S. Colfax, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 



OFFICERS OF TPIE SMmiSOXlAN INSTITUTION. 

JANUARY, 1864. 



ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Ex officio Presiding Offioi;r of the lustitutiou. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

A. D. BACHE, ^ 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, I Executive Committee. 

R. WALLACH, J 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



H. HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

R. WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington. 

W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States, (Maine.) 

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States, (Illinois.) 

GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States, (Kentucky.) 

S. S. COX, member of the House of Representatives, (Ohio. ) * 

J. W PATTERSON, member of the House of Representatives, (New Hamp.shire.) 

H. W. DAVIS, member of the House of Representatives, (Maryland.) 

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York. 

W. L. DAYTON, citizen of New Jersey. 

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut. 

LOUIS AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citiaen of Washington. 



MEMBERS E X O F F I r O OF T H E I X S T I T U T I X 



ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United Siaies. 

HANNIBAL HAMLIN, Vice-President oftlie United St«tes. 

W. H. 8EWARD, Secretary of Slate. 

S. P. CHxVSE, Secretary of the Treasury. 

E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War. 

G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. 

M. BLAIK, Postmaster General. 

E. BATES, Attorney General. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

D. P. HOLLOW AY, Commissioner of Patents. 

RICHARD WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washingion. 



H O N R A K Y 31 E M B E R, S 



BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut. 

J. P. USHER, Secretary of the Imenor, (ei. officio 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 

' OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



INTRODUCTION. 



General considerations ivhicJi should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will op Smithson. The property is beqiieatlied to the United 
States of America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government 
of the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of 
the testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and, 2d, to 
diffuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus in- 
creased, among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by difierent methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should 
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either 
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted pro- 
visionally; can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, 
or be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be 
added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, 
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the 
construction of the building; and not only the lirst cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be 
benefited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary ex- 
penditure on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of 
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, 
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to 
contain them. 

SECTION I 

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance tvith the foregoing 
deductions from the lo'dl of Smithson. 

To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer- 
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
diflerent branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. . 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By stimidating researches. 

1. Facilities to be afforded for the production of original memoirs 
on all branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol- 
umes, in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for 
publication which does nOt furnish a positive addition to human 
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula- 
tions to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. y 

the brancli to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for 
publication only in case the report of this commission be favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, 
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless 
a favorable decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac- 
tions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all 
the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the 
remaining copies may be offered for sale ; and the other carefully 
preserved, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand 
from new institutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these me- 
moirs to be given to the public through the annual report of the 
Regents to Congress. 

II. — By appropriating a part of the income^ annually^ to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, 
in course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithso- 
nian Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 

problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, 
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the 
formation of a physical atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina- 
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and 
of light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publi- 
cation of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- 
ferent races of men in North America ; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of 
our country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By the 'publiccdion of a series of reports, giving an account of the neio 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in 
all branches of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally inter- 
esting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

the reports may be ])iiblislicd annually, others at longer intervals, as 
the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of 
knowledge may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publi- 
cations, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his 
report ; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on 
the title-page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons 
interePted in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it 
without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri- 
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific 
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in 
the reports : 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, 
and meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to art. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c. 

IIL LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. — By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general irderest. 

1. These treatises ma}' occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated irom foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission 
of competent judges previous to their publication! 

3. Ah examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of 
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in 
the table of reports. 



PEOGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization., in accordance ivith the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents providing for the tivo modes of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated 
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income- into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme 
before. given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of 
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a librar}- will be required, 
consisl^ing, first, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; second, of the more 
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary 
in preparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of 
experimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
b}'' donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary 
to purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged b}^ providing a room, free of ex- 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, <tc. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be- 
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except 
one, to act as librarian. 

■~ The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the 

United States is $515,169 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the build- 
ing) 242,129 00 

Annual income from the bequest 30, 910 14. 



12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Regents. He shall take charge of tlie building and property, 
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and 
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, 
employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art; distinguished individuals should also be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has 
become the settled policy of the Institution. The. only material 
change is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted Jan- 
uary 15, 1855, viz : 

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, 
on the 2Gth of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in 
come between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, 
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic impor- 
tance, and a compliance in good faith with the law. 



<x 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to present, at the commencement 
of another session of j'oiir honorable board, the annual report of the 
condition and transactions of the Smithsonian Institution during the 
year 1863. 

The general operations of the Institution are so uniform from year 
to year that the several annual reports can differ but little from 
each other ; the usual order will, therefore, be observed in this com- 
munication, with only such variations as the special incidents of the 
year may require. 

It will be seen by the report of the Executive Committee that the 
finances of the Institution are in as favorable a condition as the state 
of public affairs would authorize us to expect. First. The whole 
amount of money originally derived from the bequest of Smithson is 
still in the treasury of the United States, bearing interest at six per 
cent., paid semi-annually, and yielding $30,910. Second. Seventy- 
five thousand dollars of an extra fund are in bonds of the State 
of Indiana, at five per cent, interest, also paid semi-annually, yield- 
ing $3,750. Third. Fifty-three thousand five hundred dollars of the 
same fund are in bonds of the State of Virginia, twelve thousand in 
those of Tennessee, and five hundred in those of Georgia, from which 
nothing has been derived since the commencement of the war. Fourth. 
A balance of upwards of $32,000 is now in the hands of the treasurer 
of the Institution. 

The unsettled accounts at the close of the year do not exceed two 
thousand dollars. 

From this statement it appears that the Institution, after erecting 
a building, accumulating a large library and an extensive museum, 
supplying the principal museums of the world with specimens of 
natural history, and publishing a series of volumes which have been 
distributed to all first-class libraries abroad, and still more extensively 
at home, has upwards of one hundred thousand dollars in addition 
to the money received from the original bequest. In addition to 
this, the stocks of Virginia and Tennessee are quoted at about half 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

their par value, and it may be a question whether they should not be 
disposed of and the money otherwise invested. 

A part ot the original bequest, amounting to X5,015. was left by 
Mr. Rush in England, as the principal of an annuity to be paid to the 
mother of the nephew of Smithson. The annuitant having died, a 
power of attorney was sent, in November, 1862, to Messrs. Fladgate, 
Clark & Finch to collect the money; but it has not yet been received. 
Although the whole legacy was awarded to Mr. Rush in behalf of 
the United States, after an amicable suit in chancery, various objections 
have been raised to allowing the small remainder to be sent to this 
country. These objections appear to be principally of a technical 
character, and are scarcely compatible with an equitable interpretation 
of the facts of the case. There should be no prejudice in England 
in regard to the construction placed upon the terms of the bequest and 
the policy which has been adopted, since one hundred and sixty- 
nine institutions in Great Britain and Ireland are recipients of the 
Smithsonian publications and specimens of natural history, and have 
enjoyed the advantages of its system of international exchange. 

Although the financial affairs of the Institution are still in a favor- 
able condition, its ability to produce results is materially diminished 
on account of the advanced prices of labor and materials, and espe- 
cially the high rate of exchange under which its foreign operations 
are necessarily conducted. Still, all parts of the general system 
have been carried on with less abatement than might have been 
expected, as will be seen from the following account of the various 
operations : 

Publications. — The publications of the Institution, as stated in pre- 
vious reports, consist of three series : 1st, Contributions to Knowl- 
edge ; 2d, Miscellaneous Collections ; and, 3d, Annual Reports. 

The Contributions include memoirs, embracing the records of origi- 
nal investigations and researches, resulting in such new truths as are 
considered interesting additions to knowledge. Twelve volumes in 
quarto of this series have been published, and the thirteenth is nearly 
ready for distribution. 

The Miscellaneous Collections include works intended to facilitate 
the study of the various branches of natural history, to give instruc- 
tion as to the method of observing phenomena, and to furnish a 
variety of other matter connected with the progress of science. Of 
this series four large octavo volumes have been issued, and two more 
are nearly completed. 



, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

The Annual Reports to Congress consist, each, of an octavo volume 
of 450 pages. They contain the report of the Secretary on the 
operations and condition of the Institution, the proceedings of the 
Regents, and an appendix, giving a synopsis of the lectures delivered 
at the Institution, extracts from correspondence, and articles of a' 
character suited to meteorological observers, to teachers, and other 
persons especially interested in the promotion of knowledge. 

The thirteenth volume of the Contributions has been completed, 
and is now in the hands of the binder. It contains the following 
original papers : 

1. Tidal Observations in the Arctic Seas ; by Elisha Kent Kane, 
M. D ; made during the second Grinnell Expedition in Search of Sir 
John Franklin in 1853-55. Reduced and discussed by Charles A. 
Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. 

2. Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas ; by Sir Leopold 
McClintock ; made on board the Arctic searching yacht "Fox" in 
Baffin's Bay and Prince Regent's Inlet in 1857-59. Reduced and dis- 
cussed by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. 

3. Ancient Mining on the shores of Lake Superior. By Charles 
Whittlesey. 

4. Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations 
made at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840-45. 
Part II. Investigation of the Solar-Diurnal Variation of the Magnetic 
Declination and its Annual Inequality. By A. D. Bache, Superin- 
tendent Coast Survey. 

5. Part III. Investigation of the Lunar Effects of the Magnetic 
Declination. By A. D. Bache. 

6. Parts IV, V, VI. Horfeontal Force. Investigation of the ten 
or eleven year period, and of the disturbances of the horizontal 
component of the magnetic force ; investigation of the solar-diurnal 
variation and of the annual inequality of the horizontal force, and of 
the lunar effect on the same. By A. D. Bache. 

7. Records and Results of a Magnetic Survey of Pennsylvania and 
parts of adjacent States in 1840, 1841, with some Additional Records 
and Results of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 1862, and a Map. By A. D. 
Bache. 

8 . Researches upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Respiration in 
the Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. More- 
house, M. D. 

Accounts have been given in previous reports of all the papers 
contained in this volume, excepting that" on the Chelonia. This 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

paper, by S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M. D., 
of Philadelphia, is a very complete study of the anatomy and physi- 
ology of the breathing organs in turtles. It seems that, although at 
one time, and by a single observer, tlie true mode of the breathing 
of these animals was partially understood, it had long been neglected, 
and modern physiologists have taught that turtles forced air into the 
lunjzs as do frogs. Drs. Mitchell and Morehouse have shown that 
turtles breathe like mammals, by drawing air into the lungs by the 
akl of muscles situated in the flanks and on the outside of the lungs. 
Their paper contains a detailed account of the anatomy of the breath- 
ing organs of turtles, and is illustrated with numerous wood-cuts. 
The most novel discovery described by the authors is that of a chiasm 
or crossing from side to side of a portion of the nerves which supply 
the muscles of the larynx. Except the well-known facts as to similar 
crossings within the skull, no previous author has described any simi- 
lar extra-cranial arrangement of nerves. The physiological uses of 
the laryngeal chiasm has been fully studied by Drs. Mitchell and 
Morehouse ; and more recently Professor Wyman, led by their dis- 
covery, has described similar nerve arrangements in serpents and in 
certain birds. 

The authors express their indebtedness to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution for the aid with which they were furnished in obtaining the 
requisite specimens for experiments and for dissection. 

The following papers have been accepted for publication, and will 
form parts of the fourteenth volume of Contributions : 

Ist. Three additional parts of the series of discussion of the mag- 
netic observations at Girard College, by Professor A. D. Bache. 

2d. The result of a series of microsco'pical studies of the medulla 
oblongata, or the upper portion of the spinal marrow, by Dr. John 
Dean. 

3d. A memoir on the palaeontology of the Upper Missouri, by F. B. 
Meek and F. V. Hayden. 

4th. An account of the photographical observatory and various 
experiments in regard to this subject, by Dr. Henry Draper, of New 
York. 

5th. A monograph of the "Laridas" or gulls, by Dr. Elliott Coues. 

All these memoirs, except the last, are in the hands of the printer, 
or in process of illustration by the engraver. 

In several of the preceding reports an account has been given of a 
series of reductions of the magnetic observations made from 1840 to 
1845, inclusive, at Girard* College, Philadelphia, by Professor Bache. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

The first two of the papers of this series related to what is called the 
eleven-year period of the variation of the needle, which corresponds 
with the recurrence and frequency of the spots on the sun. The 
third paper relates to the influence of the moon on the variation of 
the needle. The fourth refers to the change in the horizontal part 
of the force of the earth's magnetism coinciding with the eleven- 
year period of the spots on the sun. The fifth relates to the effect 
of the sun in producing daily and annual variations in the horizontal 
component of the magnetic force. The sixth relates to the lunar 
influence on the horizontal magnetic force. 

A particular account has been given of the result of all these inves- 
tigations, which tend fully to corroborate the conclusions arrived at 
from observations in other parts of the world, that both the sun and 
moon are magnetic bodies, and exert an influence upon the polarity 
of the earth ; and also that the magnetism of the sun has variations 
in intensity which- are in some way connected Tvith the appearance 
of spots on its surface, giving rise to the variations in those perturba- 
tions of" the needle which have been called magnetic storms, and 
Avhich present a periodical recurrence at an interval of about eleven 
years. 

The influence of the moon is much less marked than that of the 
sun, and appears- to be more analogous to the temporary magnetism 
induced in soft iron. 

Parts VII, VIII, and IX of this series, now in the press, are a con- 
tinuation of the same subject. Part VII contains the discussion of 
the effect of a change of temperature on the readings of the vertical 
force instrument. 

If a magnetic needle could be supported perfectly free in space, so 
as to assume the direction into which it would be brought by the 
magnetic action of the earth, it would arrange itself in the line of 
what is called the dip, or the inclination of the needle. At the mag- 
netic equator of the earth such a needle would be parallel to the 
horizon, but, departing from this line either to the north or the south, 
the inclination would increase continually until we arrive at the mag- 
netic pole, when it would be vertical. It is plain that the full magnetic 
force of the earth, in the line of the dip, may be resolved into two 
others, viz., a horizontal force, or that which draws the ordinary 
magnetic needle back to the meridian when it has been deflected 
from this position : and, second, the vortical force which tends to 
draw the end of the needle down into the line of the dip. The fre- 
2S 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

quency of vibrations of a magnetic bar suspended by an untwisted 
thread, so as to be horizontal, gives the horizontal component of the 
force of the earth, while the vibrations of a similar bar placed in the 
plane of the dip, and poised horizontally like a" scale-beam on two 
knite-edges, gives the variations in the vertical force. These vibra- 
tions, however, will be affected not only by the changes in the mag- 
netism of the earth, but by that in the bar itself ; and as the latter 
is aflfected by the temperature of the place, a series of observations 
and discussions was necessary to ascertain the corrections due to this 
cause. For this purpose the room was artificially heated and cooled ; 
but the value of the correction was finally deduced from an investi- 
gation of the whole series of regular observations compared with the 
changes of temperature indicated by the hourly register of the ther- 
mometer. 

The corrections for temperature were afterwards applied to all 
the observations. The larger disturbances were then separated from 
the body of the series in the same manner as had been done with 
regard to the horizontal force, by which means the effect of the 
monthly and yearly disturbance of the sun is exhibited analytically and 
graphically. From the results it appears that the number and aggre- 
gate amount of disturbances were least in 1844 ; that in each year 
the greatest number of disturbances occurs in March and September, 
and the least number in June, or, in other words, the maximum about 
the equinoxes, and the minimum about the solstices. 

In an appendix to this paper the connexion of the appearance of 
the aurora borealis with the disturbances of the direction and force 
of the earth's magnetism is discussed. From the result of this dis- 
cussion it appears that there is a periodicity of about eleven years in 
the recurrence of the frequency of the aurora, as well as in that of 
the great disturbances of the needle, and that these are coincident 
with each other and with the appearance of the spots on the sun. 

The eighth part of the series gives the discussion of the daily and 
yearly variations duo to the action of the sun on the vertical compo- 
nent of the magnetic force. The mean variation of the force is deter- 
mined for each hour during each month and for the whole year, and 
also for the summer and the winter separately. These are expressed 
analytically and graphically, and an examination of the curve shows 
a principal maximum about 1 p. m., and a principal minimum about 
9 a. m. There is an indication of a secondary maximum about 2 a. m., 
and a secondary minimum about 4 a. m. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

In summer the curve appeara to have but one greatest and one 
least ordinate occurring about noon and midnight. In winter the 
double feature of the curve becomes quite conspicuous. 

The vertical force appears greater in May, June, July, and August, 
and less in the remaining months, with a range of about a hundred 
md five hundred thousandth part of the whole force. 

The ninth part gives the investigation of the influence of the moon 
upon the vertical force ; also upon the direction and intensity of the 
total force. The methods of investigation are the same in this as in 
the preceding parts. The daily effects of the moon exhibit a prin- 
cipal maximum a little before the planet passes the upper meridian, 
and a principal minimum about three hours after it passes the lower 
meridian. The average epoch of the tide of vertical force is about 
one and a half hour in advance, apparently, of the culmination of the 
moon. A secondary variation of this force, though noticed, is very 
feeble. The subject of the time of greatest lunar disturbance is yet 
very imperfectly developed, and more observations in regard to it 
are desirable. 

A comparison is also given in this paper between the observations 
made at Toronto and Philadelphia, and their accordances or differ- 
ences are stated. The effect of the moon upon the direction and inten- 
sity of the total force is obtained by a combination of the vertical 
and horizontal components. From this part of the investigation it 
appears that the dip is greatest at 8 and 20 hours, and least at 3 
hours and 13.\, the range being equal to 3.6 seconds ; and ako that 
the maximum strength of the earth is greatest at half-past 12 and 11, 
and least at 7^ and IT hours, the results, from the observations at 
Toronto and Philadelphia, being remarkably coincident. 

The next paper of the foregoing list is that by Dr. Dean, which 
comprises the anatomy of the medulla oblongata, both human and 
comparative; from the lowest roots of the hypoglossal nerve, through 
the upper roots of the auditory, including the hypoglossal, nasal, 
glossopharyngeal, abducens, facial, and auditory nerves. The ob- 
jects of the investigation were principally as follows : 

1st. To illustrate the topography of the medulla oblongata by means 
of a series of photographs, which might completely map out all the 
principal changes in structure as they successively occur, connected 
with the development of the different nerves, with the details which 
accompany the development of their nuclei and accessory ganglia. 

2d. The study of the more minute histological, details, such as the 
course of the nerve roots, their entrance into their respective nuclei 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and connexion with nerve cells, the connexion of the nuclei with 
each other by nerve fibres passing from the roots and from the nerve 
cells, the structure of the olivary bodies which possess a peculiar 
interest from their resemblance in convoluted structure to the cere- 
brum and cerebellum. 

3d. An attempt to show, notwithstanding the apparent difference of 
structure between the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, a difference 
which appears very considerable at first sight, that the jplan of struc- 
ture of the two is identical, that the general arrangement of parts 
strictly corresponds, that the relation of the nerve roots to their 
nuclei or cell groups is the same, and moreover the connexion estab- 
lished between the different nuclei is carried out on the same plan. 
The illustrations for this work were taken by the author himself 
directly from the microscopic dissections by photography. For the 
general edition the photographic illustrations have been copied on 
stone with great care by L. H. Bradford. The steel plates were en- 
graved by J. W. Watts. Besides these, a limited number of photo- 
graphic prints from the original negatives have been prepared by 
Dr. Dean himself for private distribution, and from these negatives 
other copies may be obtained either on direct application to the author 
or through the medium of this Institution. 

This paper, which is the result of over tAvo years of constant study, 
was referred to Dr. W. A. Hammond, of the United States army, 
and Professor Jeffries Wyman for critical examination, and was recom- 
mended by them for publication as a valuable addition both to hum^n 
and to comparative anatomy. 

The third paper accepted for publication is on the Pala3ontology 
of the Upper Missouri, by F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden. 

This work contains figures and descriptions of all the known inver- 
tebrate fossil remains of the various geological formations of Idaho, 
Dakota, Nebraska, and portions of Kansas. About 370 species, 
nearly all of which are new, are fully described, and the descriptions 
are accorapaniftd by remarks on the relations of each species to allied 
forms from other districts in this country and Europe, both living and 
fossil — its geological range, geographical distribution, &c. The illus- 
trations consist of about one thousand- carefully drawn figures, occu- 
pying forty-five quarto plates. 

In addition to full descriptions of species, the work also contains 
extended accounts of all the genera to which these fossils belong, with 
the synonymy of each genus, and remarks on its affinities to other 
genera, both living and extiact ; and assigns the probable period of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

its introduction, the time when it appears to have attained its maxi- 
mum development, and that at which it is supposed to have died out, 
if not represented in our existing seas. At the head of each generic 
description the etymology of the name and the type of the genus, 
when known, are given. Full descriptions of each of the families 
including these genera are likewise given ; and at the end of each 
family description the names of all the genera, whether living or ex- 
tinct. The introduction contains detailed descriptions of the various 
formations in which these fossils existed, with remarks on their 
synchronism with other American and European deposits. 

A considerable portion of the specimens described and figured were 
collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden in the several expeditions into the 
regions of the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, sent by the govern- 
ment under the command of Lieutenant (now Major General) G-. K. 
"Warren, of the United States Topographical Engineers, to whose 
scientific zeal and liberal encouragement Ave are indebted for much of 
the material upon which the work is fotmded. But besides these, a 
large number were collected by Dr. Hayden himself previous to his 
connexion with the exploring expeditions of the government. The 
specific descriptions of the fossils described in this work are therefore 
to be regarded as appearing, in the joint names of Meek and Hayden, 
while the descriptions of the genera, and families, and the discussion 
of their relations, geological range, geographical distribution, &c., 
are to be accredited to Mr. Meek alone. 

The first sketch of this work was prepared as a part of the report 
to Congress of the explorations of the above-mentioned regions, but 
Mr. Meek has since devoted almost three years exclusively to extend- 
ing and completing the investigations; and as it is probable that Con- 
gress will make no provision for its publication, it has been adopted 
by the Institution, at the earnest recommendation of several eminent 
naturp^lists, and will be published in successive parts. All the speci- 
mens described are in the collections of the Institution, and as soon 
as the work is completed the numerous duplicates will be distributed, 
as types of the species, to various scientific institutions at home and 
abroad. 

3Iiscellaneous Collections. — Several series of articles forming parts of 
the Miscellaneous Collections, as stated in previous reports, have been 
undertaken, of which some have been completed, some are still in 
hand, and others have been printed during the past year. 

The first of these series is that relating to the shells of North 
America, and will consist of the following works : 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

1. Check lists of North American shells, by P. P. Carpenter, &c. 

2. Circular relative to collecting shells. 

3. Elementary introduction to the study of conchology, by P. P. 
Carpenter. 

4. List of the species of shells collected by the United States ex- 
ploring expedition, by the same author. 

5. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the west coast of the 
United' States, Mexico, and Central America, b}'- the same author. 

6. Descriptive catalogue of the air-breathing shells of North 
America, by W. G. Binney. 

7. Descriptive catalogue of several genera of water-breathing fresh 
water univalves, by the same author. 

8. Descriptive catalogue of the Blelaniadce, or the remainder of the 
water-breathing fresh water univalves, by George W. Tryou. 

9. Descriptive catalogue of the Corbiculadce or Cijcladidce, a group 
of bivalves principally inhabiting fresh water, by Temple Prime. 

10. Descriptive catalogue *of the Unionidce, or fresh water mussels. 

11. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the eastern coast of the 
United States, by William Stimpson. 

12. Bibliography of North American conchology, by W. G. 
Binney. 

13. Check list catalogue of cretaceous and Jurassic fossils of North 
America, by F. B. Meek. 

The first and second articles of this list were published in 1860, and 
described in the report for that year. The third was published in 
1861 as a part of the annual report for 1860. A new edition would 
have been printed before this time, as a part of the Miscellaneous 
Collections, had we not been disappointed by a delay in procuring 
the expected u«e of wood-cuts for the illustration of the work from 
the British Museum. We have just learned, however, that the Mu- 
seum has liberally granted the use of these wood-cuts; that they are 
now being copied in stereotype in England; and consequently the 
work will be completed without further delay. 

The fourth and fifth articles are slill in the hands of Mr. Carpenter, 
who has reported progress, which leads us to expect that they will 
be ready for the press during the present year. 

Of the 6th, 7th, and 8th, the first draughts of the manuscripts 
have been completed, and a preliminary sketch of the conclusions 
of the authors as regards the names of the species has been printed 
in the form of proof-sheets, and distributed to conchologists, with a 
view to elicit criticisms and suggestions prior to final publication. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

Many important additions and corrections have been obtained in this 
way which will add much to the value of the works. The request has 
been made that these proof-sheets should not be considered as express* 
ing the final views of the authors, but only intended to obtain the 
information above mentioned. 

The ninth article of the series, by Mr. Prime, is well advanced in 
printing, and will be completed in 1864. In addition to the purely 
North American species, it will contain descriptions and wood-cut 
figures of those of Central and South America, as well as of the West 
Indies, thus embracing all the members of the family found in the 
New World. 

The tenth and eleventh articles are still in process of preparation, 
and the engraving of the wood-cuts for their illustration has com- 
menced. 

The twelfth article — the first part of the Bibliography of North 
American conchology by Mr. Binney, mentioned in the last report as 
in press — has been completed and distributed. It forms a volume 
of 650 pages, and contains a list of the publications of American au# 
thors relative to conchology in general. As might reasonably be 
expected, some omissions have occurred of titles of papers overlooked 
or not met with, but copies have been sent to all the working con- 
chologists of the country, with the request to furnish rectifications and 
additions to be inserted in an appendix to the second part. This 
second part, which is now in the press, is intended to include an 
account of the writings of foreign naturalists relative .to American 
conchology, and will also contain, beside the additions and corrections 
of the first volume, copious indexes of authors and names of genera 
and species. About 250 pages are stereotyped, and the whole work, 
probably filling over 500 pages, will be finished during 1864. 

The thirteenth article, check list by Mr. Meek, has been completed 
and put to press. It contains a list of all the species of cretaceous 
fossils described by authors up to the end of 1863, and will constitute 
an important aid in the labor of cataloguing and labelling collections, 
being prepared in the same style as that of the check-lists of North 
American shells, published by the Institution some years ago, which 
have been so much sought after by conchologists and amateurs. 

Another series of works belonging to the miscellaneous collections 
is intended to facilitate the study of American insects. Of this series 
the several articles are as follows: 

1. Instructions for collecting and preserving insects. 

2. Catalogue of the described Diptera (flies, musquitoes^ &c.) of 
North America, by Baron Osten Sacken. 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

3. Cataloj^ue of the descrfbed Lepidoptera (butterflies, moths, &c,) 
of North America, by Dr. Jno. G. Morris. 

4. Classification of the Coleoptera (beetles, &c.) of North America, 
by Dr. Jno. L. Le Conte. 

5. Synopsis of the described Nenroptera (dragon-flies, &c.) of North 
America, with a list of the South American species, by H. Hagen. 

G. Synopsis of the described Lepidoptera of North America, part 
I. Diurnal and Crepuscular Lepidoptera, by Dr. Jno. G. Morris. 

7. List of the Coleoptera of North America, with descriptions of 
new species, by Dr. Jno. L. Le Conte. 

8. Monograph of the Dipteraof North America, byll. Loew, with 
additions, by Baron Osten Sacken. 

9. Monographs of Homoptera and Hemiptera, (chinches, roaches, 
&c.,) of North America, by P. R. Uhler. 

10. Descriptive Catalogue of the Hymenoptera, (bees, wasps, &c.,) 
of North America, by H. De Saussure. 

These have all been described in previous reports. 
• Of No. 8, (monograph of Diptera,) the first part was published in 
18G2. During the past year the second part has been printed, and 
forms a volume of 339 pages. The manuscript of a third part is in 
an advanced state of preparation by Dr. Loew, and when received 
will, as in the case of the two preceding parts, be intrusted to Baron 
Osten Sacken for translation under his direction. We must again, in 
this connexion, express our obligations to Bavon Osten Sacken for his 
valuable assistance in the preparation and publication of these works. 

Of No. 9, monographs of Homoptera and Hemiptera of North 
America, by P. R. Uhler, the manuscript is nearly completed, and 
will soon be received from the author. 

Of No. 10, the manu'^cript of the first part (Catalogue of Hymenop- 
tera) was received from the author during the past summer, and 
placed in the hands of Mr. E. Norton, of New York, who kindly 
offered to translate it from the original French and superintend its 
publication. It is now in the press, and will soon be completed. 

In addition to the publications relating to shells and insects, the 
following, belonging also to the Miscellaneous Collections, have been 
prepared for the Institution: 

1. Check-list of Minerals, by Thomas Egleston. 

2. Instructions relative to Ethnology and Philology, by George 
Gibbs. 

3. Comparative Vocabulary, by George Gibbs. 

4. Dictionary of the Chinook Jargon or Trade Language of Oregon, 
by George Gibbs. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

5. Monograph of the Bats of North America, by Dr. H. Allen, 
United States army. 

No. 1 of these works has been prepared to aid in arranging and 
cataloguing the Smithsonian collection of minerals and the distribu- 
tion of duplicate specimens, but it will also be of value in facilitating 
the study of mineralogy by furnishing printed labels and check-lists 
for exchanges. It presents a list of all the described species of min- 
erals, with their chemical symbols and S3^stems of crystallization, indi- 
cating those which are peculiar to the United States, the whole 
arranged according to the method adopted by Professor Dana in the 
last edition of his Manual of Mineralogy. For important additions 
and corrections, this work is indebted to the principal mineralogists 
of this country, to whom the proofs were submitted, and especially 
to Professor Dana, Professor Brush, and Dr. Genth. This list is 
completed, and will shortly be ready for distribution. 

No. 2 of these works was printed in the Smithsonian annual 
report for 1861, but a large demand having arisen for it, it has been 
reprinted with corrections and additions, and now includes instriic- 
tions for philological observation, rules for recording sounds and vo- 
cabularies, &c. In the latter part of the work Mr. Gibbs has received 
important assistance from Professor W. D. Whitney, of Yale College. 

It includes directions for the collection of various specimens, hints 
for special inquiry, &c. Among the former are the skulls of Ameri-" 
can Indians, which in some cases are difiScult to obtain, on account 
of the jealous}^ with which the natives guard the remains of their 
dead. Numerous tribes, however, have become extinct, or have 
removed from their former abodes. The remains of victims of war 
are often left where they fall, and the bones of slaves and of the 
friendless are neglected. Relics of these can be obtained without 
offence to the living. It is, however, of essential importance that 
most positive information should be obtained as to the nation or tribe to 
which a particular skull belongs. This may frequently be learned 
from the history of the migrations of the tribe, or from the character 
of the ornaments and utensils found with it. 

Among the specimens of art which are designated as desirable 
are dresses, ornaments, bows and arrows, lances, saddles with their 
furniture, models of lodges, cradles, mats, baskets, gambling imple- 
ments, models of canoes, paddles, fish-hooks, carvings in wood and 
stone, tools, &c. 

American antiquities are especially indicated as objects of interest. 
They include the tools found in the northern copper mines, articles 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

inclosed in mounds, images, pottery, also the contents of ancient 
shell beds found on the sea-coast and bays, often deeply covered with 
earth and overgrown with trees; human remains, or implements of 
human manufacture, bearing the marks of tools or of subjection to fire, 
found in caves, beneath deposits of stony material formed by drop- 
pings from the roof; similar articles in salt-licks, likewise in deposits 
of sand and gravel, or such as evidently belonging to the drift period. 
Among other desiderata mentioned are the names of tribes, geo- 
graphical position, number of individuals, physical constitution, such 
as stature, proportion of limbs, facial angle, color of skin, hair, and 
eyes ; inscriptions, dress, food, dwellings, arts, trades, religion, 
government, social life, ceremonies, mode of warfare, medicine, 
literature, method" of dividing time, history, &c. 

These directions also include a list of words most important to be 
used in forming the vocabulary of a language. The pamphlet con- 
sists of thirty-four pages, and is distributed gratuitously to all who 
are desirous of aiding investigations of this character. 

No. 3 is a vocabulary of the principal words of which the 
equivalents are desired in the languages of the American Indians. 
It has been prepared witlx great care by Mr. Gibbs after the usual 
models, presenting in parallel columns the words selected in English, 
French, Spanish, and Latin, leaving a blank column to be filled by 
the required equivalents in the dialect of any given tribe. It forms 
a pamphlet of eighteen pages, including two hundred and eleven 
different words, and is printed on letter paper,' for convenience in 
filling up the blanks. 

No. 4, the Chinook Jargon, is a collection of phrases made up 
from various languages, Indian and civilized, and constitutes the sole 
medium of communication with the Indian tribes of the northwest. 
In 1853 the Smithsonian Institution published a brief dictionary of 
this language, from a French manuscript presented by Dr. B. R. 
Mitchell and edited by Professor W. W. Turner. The article was 
in great demand, and the edition was soon exhausted. Mr. Gibbs, 
having paid particular attention to the Jargon during his long resi- 
dence in Washington Territory, kindly offered to prepare a new 
edition with corrections and additions. This offer was readily ac- 
cepted, and the dictionary has been published during the past year. 

The vocabulary of the Chinook contains words of two dialects, the 
Chinook proper and the Clatsop, and perhaps also of the Wakiakum. 
The nation or rather family to which the generic name Chinook has 
been applied, formerly inhabited both banks of the Columbia river 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

from its mouth to the Grand Dalles, a distance of about one hundred 
and seventy miles, and was, as is usual among the sedentary Indians 
of the west, broken up into numerous bands. Mr. Hale, in his Eth- 
nography of the United States Exploring. Expedition, has divided 
these into the Upper and Lower Chinook. The present vocabulary 
belongs to those nearest the mouth of the river, of which there were 
five principal bands. The language of the bands further up the river 
departs more and more widely from the Chinook proper ; indeed, so 
much so that the lower Indians could not have understood the upper 
ones without an interpreter. This vocabulary is not as full as could 
be wished, and the only reason for publishing it in its present condition 
is that the Indians speaking the language are so nearly extinct that 
no better digest is likely to be made in future. 

In regard to the 5th article of the above series, the Monograph of 
Bats of North America, it may be stated that the mammalia of this 
continent have been studied and described generally by Audubon, 
Bacliman, and also b}^ Professor Baird of this Institution. These 
authors, however, have not included in their descriptions the cheirop- 
tera, or bats. • To supply this deficiency, Dr. Allen, of Philadelphia, 
has given his attention for several years to the careful study of 
the specimens of this animal in the principal museums of this country, 
and has presented the result of his labors to the Institution in the 
form of the monograph above mentioned. In this a detailed descrip- 
tion is given of each of the genera and species with wood-cut figures of 
the skulls, heads, ea*s, and tails of such species as require this mode of 
illustration. The wood-cuts of this paper have been completed and 
the manuscript is now in the hands of the printer. 

I may mention that the Institution is indebted to Mr. Figaniere, 
Portugese minister, for a very graphic account of an immense assem- 
blage of bats which had been colonized for years in the upper part 
of a mansion house which he had purchased in Marjdand. This ac- 
count will be republished in the appendix to this report, as well as 
in the paper of Dr. Allen just described. 

Heports. — The annual reports to Congress are printed at the ex- 
pense of the government as public documents, with the exception of 
the wood-cuts, the cost of which is paid by the Institution. Previous 
to 1853 the reports were principally confined to an exposition of the 
operations of the Institution, and were published in pamphlet formj 
but since that date an appendix has been added to each report, which, 
with the other matter, has increased the size to that of a volume of 
four hundred and fifty pages. These reports now form a series of ten 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

volumes, beginning with that of 1853, and in order that this series 
might contain a history of the Institution from the beginning, the will 
of Smithson, the enactments of Congress in regard to it. and the sev- 
eral reports of the Secretary, previous to 1853, were republished in 
the appendix to that volume. 

The report for 18G2 contains, in the appendix, a eulogy on the late 
Senator Pearce, by Professor Bache ; a course of lectures on Polarized 
Light, by F. A. P. Barnard, late president of the University of Mis- 
sissippi ; a course of lectures on Ethnology, by Professor Daniel 
Wilson, of the University of Toronto ; an introduction to a course of 
lectures on the Study of High Antiquity, by A. Morlot, of Switzer- 
land, translated for the Institution by the author ; an account -of 
the Articles on Archailogy, published by the Smithsonian Institution, 
copied from the "Natural History Review," of England ; a history 
of the French Academy of Sciences ; eulogies on Von Buch and 
Thenard, a continuation of the series of memoirs of distinguished 
members of the French Academy, translated by C. A. Alexander, 
esq. ; a Memoir of Isidore St. Hilaire, by Quatrefages, translated by 
a lady j a prize Memoir on the Catalytic Force, by T. L. Phipson ; 
on Atoms, b}'' Sir John Herschel ; Classification of Books, by J. P. 
Lesley ; Account of Human Remains from Patagonia, and Prize 
Questions of Scientific Societies. 

Of this report the usual number of 10,000 copies was printed, of 
which 4,000 copies were given to the Institution, to be distributed in 
accordance with the following rules: • 

1. To all the meteorological observers who send records of the 
weather to the Institution. 

2. To the collaborators of the Institution. 

3. To donors to the museum and library. 

4. To colleges and other educational establishments. 

5. To public libraries, and literary and scientific societies. 

6. To teachers, or individuals who are engaged in special studies, 
and who make direct application for them. 

Owing to the many changes which have taken place in the resi- 
dence and occupation of the correspondents of the Institution since 
the commencement of the war, it has not been thought advisable to 
send the reports to all whose names are on the record of distribution, 
but in most cases to wait until direct application is made by letter or 
otherwise for a copy of the work. Whenever a report is sent to any 
address a separate announcement is made of the fact enclosing .a 
blank receipt to be signed and returned to the Institution. 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

Ou account of the large amount of printing required by the gov- 
ernment in consequence of the war, the public printing office has been 
taxed to its utmost power ;, documents not required for immediate 
use have been delayed, and among others the report of the Institution 
for 1862 is still not quite completed. It is expected, however, that 
it will be ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. The 
number of copies of the report ordered to be printed by Congress 
has varied in different years, and consequently in the increasing de- 
mand some of thiB volumes have been entirely exhausted. It may be 
a matter of consideration whether a new edition of the report for 
1856, and perhaps for other years, might not be reprinted. To pre- 
vent the future exhaustion of the supply of the reports. Congress 
authorized the stereotyping of the last volume and the printing at any 
time, from the plates, of the whole or any part of its contents. 

In view of the great cost of paper and the space required for storage, 
it has been thought advisable to stereotype the Contributions and Mis- 
cellaneous Collections, and to strike off only as many copies of each 
article as are required for immediate distribution. By the adoption 
of this plan, the ability to supply, to any extent, copies of works 
published hereafter will always exist, while no more need be printed 
than are actually required. 

Ethnology. — Prom the first, the Institution has given considerable 
attention to the various branches of ethnology. Besides the addi- 
tions to Indian archcelogy which are to be found in the several 
volumes of its Contributions to Knowledge, it has published { jveral 
papers on languages. In the report for 1860, a list of original aianu- 
scripts was give,n relating to the languages of the northwest cjast of 
America, which had been received through the assistance of Mu Alex- 
ander S. Taylor, of Monterey, California. 

Several of these were copied at the expense of the Institution, 
with the intention of securing their preservation and subsequent pub- 
lication. It has also been stated that a number of these manuscripts 
had been presented to Mr. J. G. Shea, of New York, to be published 
in a series which he has established under the title of "Library of 
American Linguistics." By presenting these to Mr. Shea for pub- 
lication and purchasing from him for distribution to learned societies 
a number of copies, encouragement has been given to a laudable en- 
terprize, undertaken solely to promote a favorite branch of learning, 
and with but little comparative expense to the Smithsonian fund. I 
regret, however, to state that the diminution of the effective income 
of the Institution will prevent further appropriations at present for 
this purpose. The following is a list of the works of Mr. Shea's 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

series, of which the Institution has aided the publication b}^ purchas- 
ing copies for distribution: 

1. Grammar of the Mutsun language,, spoken at the mission of San 
Juan Bautista, Alta California ; by Father Felipe Arroyo de la 
Cuesta. 

2. Vocabulary of the language of San Antonio mission, California, 
,by Father Bonaventure Sitjar. 

3. Grammar and dictionary of the Yakama language, by Rev. Mie. 
Cles. Pandosy. • 

4. Vocabulary or Phrase Book of the Mutsun language, of Alta 
California, by Rev. Father Felipe Arroyo de la Cuesta. 

5. Grammar of the Pima or Nevome, a language of Sonora, from 
a manuscript of the XVIII century. 

The first of these, the Mutsun grammar, was described in the last 
report. The second, the vocabulary of the native inhabitants of 
the San Antonio, or Sexttipay, mission ; it was printed from a manu- 
.script forwarded to the Institution by Alexander S. Taylor, of Cali- 
fornia. The mission of San Antonio de Padua was founded in 1771. 
in the Sierra of Santa Lucia, twenty-five leagues southwest of Mon- 
terey ; the authors of this vocabulary being the ^rst missionaries. 
The tribe is sometimes known as Tatche, or Telame, though Mr. Taylor 
calls it Sextapay. It is gradually disappearing ; not more than fifty 
Indians still remain, although it is said they were, at one time, so 
numerous that the dialects spoken by them amounted to tw^enty. 

The third is the grammar and dictionary of the Yakamas, a people 
inhabiting the region of the Yakama river — a stream rising in the 
Cascade range of mountains, and emptying into the, Columbia above 
the junction of the Snake river. The name signifies the "stony 
ground," in allusion to the rocky character of the country. The au- 
thor of the grammar, Father Pandosy, was for many years a resident 
among these Indians, and became well acquainted with their language. 
In the destruction of the buildings of the mission by fire, during the 
Indian war in Washington Territory, the original of the grammar was 
lost, and the translation, published by Mr. Shea, which was made 
some time previously, alone remained. It is to be regretted that a 
more extended dictionary than the one now published was also de- 
stroyed at the same time. 

The fourth article is a vocabulary of the same language, of which 
the grammar constitutes the first of this series, and is by the same 
author ; the words are given in the Mutsun and Spanish languages. 

The fifth, the grammar of the Pima, with a vocabulary in the same 
language an(J in Spanish, was obtained in Toledo, Spain, and tran ;- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

lated by Buckingham Smith, esq. This manuscript was probably 
taken to Spain after the suppression of the order of the Jesuits in 
Mexico, in 1767. The Pima language was spoken by the tribes from 
the river Yaqui, in Sonora, northward to the Gila, and even beyond 
the Colorado, eastward beyond the mountains in the province of 
Taraumara, and westward to the sea of Cortez. The phrases given 
in these works will preserve the knowledge of what constituted the 
food of the inhabitants ; their manner of living, their character, and 
native customs, <S:c. This may prove of historic interest hereafter, 
if the facts be nowhere else more circumstantially authenticated. 

Meteorology. — From 185G to 1861 an appropriation was made from 
the agricultural fund of the Patent OfSce for assistance to the Insti- 
tution in collecting and reducing statistics relative to the climate of 
the United States. This was commenced while the Patent Office was 
under the direction of Judge Mason, but was suddenly discontinued 
under a change of administration. The propriety of an appropriation 
for this purpose, from the fund above mentioned, must be evident to 
every one who reflects on the intimate connexion between meteorology 
and agriculture. A knowledge of the peculiarities of the climate of 
a country is an essential requisite for the adoption of a system of 
scientific culture. The average temperature of the spring, autumn, 
and of the growing season ; the ratio of the number of unfavor- 
able to favorable years ; the amount of rain, and moisture ; the 
average time of the occurrence of late and early frosts, are all facts 
of importance in the economical adaptation of the crops to a given lo- 
cality, in order to obtain the maximum of produce from a definite 
amount of labor. 

The money received from the Patent Office was expended in assist- 
ing to defray the expense of the reductions of the observations, and 
as soon as the appropriation was stopped we were obliged to discon- 
tinue this part of the operations. The Institution, however, still con- 
tinues to derive some benefit from its association with the Patent 
Office, in receiving through it, free of postage, the returned registers 
from the different observers. 

Unfortunately, the postage law adopted at the last session of Con- 
gress prevents the correspondents on agriculture and meteorology 
from sending their reports by mail unless prepaid. This arrange- 
ment almost entirely stops the reception of these articles, for, since 
the service rendered is gratuitous, the observers cannot be expected 
to bear this additional burden. It is to be hoped that Congress will 
so modify the law as to remove this obstruction to a correspondence 
of great importance to the agricultural interests of the country. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

0\vin<; to this restriction, the number of meteorological registers 
received during the past year has been diminished, and the transmis- 
sion of nearly all of them would have been discontinued had not 
the Commissioner of Agriculture, in view of their value to his 
department, decided to advance to some of the observers the neces- 
sary postage stamps to affix to their registers. He would willingly 
have sent stamps to all, but the tax would have been too heavy for 
the office ; he therefore found it necessary to limit the number, 
and in doing so endeavored to make such a selection as Avould secure 
registers from districts distributed as uniformly as possible in all the 
States. Those observers, therefore, who have not been supplied 
with stamps should infer from this no disparagement of their observa- 
tions, for among those who have been omitted from the list are 
some whose registers are highly prized for their regularity and 
accuracy. 

Before it was known that this arrangement would be made by the 
Commissioner a circular was sent from this Institution to all the ob- 
servers, mentioning the new feature in the postage law, and requesting 
them to continue their observations, and retain the records until the 
law should be modified, or some arrangement could be made by which 
the observers would not be subject to the burden of postage.* 

Under the new organization of the Department of Agriculture a 
renewed interest has been manifested by the Commissioner in the 
collection of meteorological statistics, and he has expressed the desire 
to co-operate with this Institution in continuing and extending the 
system of records of the weather which it had established with so 
much labor and expense. 

In order to obtain and diffuse a knowledge of facts of immediate 
importance to agriculturists, the Commissioner has commenced the 
publication of a monthly bulletin giving the state of the crops, the 
condition of the weather, and various other items of importance which 
are daily received from observers, and which would lose a considerable 
portion of their value were they suffered to remain unpublished until 
the end of the year. Por this bulletin the lnstitu1;iou supplies the 
meteorological materials, consisting of the mean, maximum, and 
minimum temperature and amount of rain for each month in different 
States, and also, lor the purpose of comparison, the mean temperature 
and amount of rain for a series of five years, grouped by States ; 

* This law has been changed since the above was written, and observers can send their 
meteorological registers, or other communications, to the " Commissioner of Agriculture, "M'liA 
out prepayment of poUuge. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

together with tables of important atmospheric changes, and notices 
of auroras, meteors, and other periodical phenomena. The publica- 
tion has been received with much favor by agriculturists, and is 
regarded with great interest by the observers, who are thus fur- 
nished promptly with a general summary of the principal features 
of the meteorology of each month in all parts of the country, with 
which they can compare their own observations. 

In view of the value of the information thus furnished by the 
Institution, it is hoped that the previous appropriation will be 
renewed, and that the reductions which have been discontinued for 
the last four years may be resumed. 

The second volume of the Results of Meteorological Observations 
made for the Institution, from 1854 to 1859, and reduced by Professor 
Coffin, is still in the press, its completion being delayed by the great 
pressure, upon the public printing office, of government work relative 
to the war. 

We are indebted to the courtesy of Captain (now General) George 
G. Meade, of the topographical engineers, superintendent of the 
survey of the north and northwestern lakes, and of his successor in 
office. Lieutenant Colonel J. D, Graham, for a continuation of the 
favor formerly extended to the Institution in furnishing us with copies 
of the meteorological observations made at the different stations estab- 
lished for the survey. These records are very valuable, being made 
with full sets of instruments and at important places. They em- 
brace observations made three times a day, at the same hours with 
the Smithsonian system, 7 a. m. and 2 and 9 p. m., and at ten sta- 
tions, extending from Superior City in the State of Wisconsin, at the 
western extremity of Lake Superior, to Sackett's Harbor in New 
York, on the east end of Lake Ontario. 

The Bureau of Medicine and Surgery of the Navy Department also 
continues to furnish us with the meteorological records kept at the 
naval hospitals at Chelsea, New York, and Philadelphia. 

For several years previous to the commencement of the war a large 
map was exhibited in the Smithsonian Institution on which was daily 
represented the direction of the wind and face of the sky over the 
greater portion of the United States; and in previous reports we have 
frequently called attention to the fact that a properly organized sys- 
tem for giving daily or half daily changes of the weather in distant 
parts of the United States would be of great practical importance to 
the shipping interests of the country; we have also stated the fact 
that we are much more favorably situated for predicting the coming 
3s 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

weather tlian the meteorologists of Europe. The storms in our lati- 
tude generally move from west to east, and, since our seaboard is on 
the eastern side of a great continent, we can have information of the 
approaching storm while it is still hundreds of miles to the west of us. 
Not so with the meteorologists of Europe, since they reside on the 
western side of a continent, and can have no telegraphic dispatches 
from the oceap. The proposition, however, to furnish constant 
information of this kind could not be carried out by the limited 
means of the Smithsonian Institution, and, indeed, can only be 
rendered properly and fully serviceableunder the direction and at the 
expense of the government. 

New and interesting features have been introduced into the daily 
meteorological bulletin published by the Imperial Observatory at 
Paris. As mentioned in the last report, these bulletins are litho- 
graphed each day from records of the barometer, thermometer, wind, 
and face of the sky, compiled from telegraphic reports transmitted to 
the observatory from various parts of Europe. In addition to these, 
they now contain daily a small outline chart of Europe upon which 
are drawn diagrams showing the barometric curve of the day through 
the various stations, together with the temperature and direction and 
force of the wind. For the use of vessels about to leave port, a state- 
ment is also given of what will probably be the direction of the wind 
the next day. Chambers of commerce and intelligent seamen have 
acknowledged in strong language the benefit of these daily bulletins, 
thus adding to the ever-accumulating testimony in favor not only of 
the speculative interest but also practical benefits of meteorology.* 
kt Bordeaux, Havre, and other important ports, as soon as the bul- 
letins are received, the telegraphic announcement of the weather and 
the probable direction of wind for the following day are posted in 
public places and furnished to the principal newspapers for publica- 
tion. The bulletin also contains extracts from the correspondents of 
the observatory on astronomical and other subjects as well as meteo- 
rology. With the number for December 20, a supplement was issued 
with a diagram exhibiting the indications of the self-registering instru- 
ments at the. Royal Observatory, Greenwich, during the great storm 
on the English coast in the first three days of December, 1863. 

Laboratory. — The principal work which has been done in the 
laboratory during the past year is an extended series of experiments 
on the properties of different kinds of oil intended for ligkt-house 
purposes. For a number of years past the price of sperm oil has 
been constantly increasing, and from a dollar per gallon it had ad- 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

vanced last year to two dollars and forty-three cents. It became, 
therefore, an important matter to the Light-house Board to determine 
whether some other burning material could not be introduced in the 
place of so expensive an article. The investigation of this subject 
was given in charge to myself, as the chairman of the Committee on 
Experiments. The result of the investigations not only revealed 
a number of new phenomena, of interest to science, but also estab- 
lished the important practical fact of the superiority of winter 
strained lard oil over standard sperm oil in the intensity of the light, 
the steadiness and persistence of the flame, and the less care required 
in attendance. This fact must have an important bearing on the cost 
of lighting the extended coast of the United States, as well as upon 
the commercial value of one of the staple products of the western 
part of our Union. The price of lard oil is, at present, considerably 
less than one-half of that of sperm, and while the supply of sperm oil 
has remained stationary, or even diminished with an increasing de- 
mand, the sources of lard oil in the country are abundant, and the 
quantity which can be produced will be sufiScient to meet almost an 
unlimited consumption. 

Another series of experiments was made for determining the proper 
arrangements of reflectors and lenses for illuminating distant ob- 
jects either by the electric or the calcium light. These experiments 
were instituted at the suggestion of the Navy Department, but as no 
appropriation was made for their being carried into practice, they 
were discontinued, and the knowledge obtained remains unapplied. 

Collections of specimens of natural history, &c. — In several of the 
preceding reports a distinction has been drawn between the collec- 
tion of specimens of natural history made through the agency of 
this Institution, and what is called the Smithsonian museum. The 
object of making large collections of duplicate specimens is, first, to 
advance science by furnishing to original investigators new materials 
for critical study; and second, to assist in diffusing knowledge, by 
providing colleges, academies, and other educational establishments, 
with labelled specimens to illustrate the various productions of nature, 
while the principal end to be attained by the public museum of the 
Institution is the gratification and instruction of the inhabitants and 
visitors of the city of Washington. 

The collecting and distributing of a large number of specimens, for 
the purpose stated, is an important means of increasing and diffusing 
knowledge, and, as such, is in strict accordance with the will of the 
founder of the Institution. It has, therefore, from the first received 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

much attention, and has been attended with a commensurate amount 
of beneficial results. Among the collections received during the past 
year have been specimens of great interest, cither the results of 
explorations, undertaken by the Institution, or of exchanges with 
individuals or local societies. The materials thus collected belong 
principall}- to two classes, namely, to specimens of new or rare forms 
intended to advance natural history and duplicates of such as are to 
be labelled and distributed for the purposes of education. Among 
the former are the collections of Mr. Kennicott, whose explorations 
have been mentioned in previous reports. They are of a very valu- 
able character, illustrating the natural history and ethnology of the 
northwestern portions of the continent of North America. The 
specimens received in 1863, from this exploration, filled forty boxes 
and packages, weighing, in the aggregate, 3,000 pounds. They em- 
brace in the line of natural history thousands of skins of mammals 
and birds, eggs, nests, skeletons, fishes, insects, fossils, plants, &c. 
In the line of ethnology are skulls, dresses, weapons, implements, 
utensils, instruments of the chase, in short, all the requisite material 
to illustrate the peculiarities of the Esquimaux and different tribes of 
Indians inhabiting the northwest regions. 

In addition to the collections obtained from the British possessions 
in North America, by Mr. Kennicott, specimens have been received 
from other points and other parties. Among these are a series of 
birds and eggs from Labrador, gathered by Mr. Henry Connolly, and , 
a large amount of new material from Mexico, collected by John Xantus, 
under the auspices and at the expense of the Institution, consisting of 
birds, fishes, reptiles, shells, &c. Another series from the same country ■ 
has been presented by Dr. Sartorius, who has, for a number of years, 
been one of the meteorological observers of the Institution. Inter- ■ 
esting collections have been received, also, from Dr. A. Van Frantzius, 
of Costa Rica; from Mr. Osbert Salvin, of Guatemala; from Captain i 
J. M. Dow, of Panama; specimens from Cuba have been presented I 
by Mr. C. "Wright and Prof. Poey; from Trinidad, by Mr. Galody, 
United States consul; from Jamaica, by Mr. W. T. March; from Ecua- 
dor, by the Hon. C. T. Buckalew, now of the United States Senate.. 
A valuable contribution of birds and mammals has also been received 
from Prof. Sumichrast, of Orizaba. These collections are all intended 
to illustrate the natural history of the American continents, to the 
investigation of w^hose extended regions the Institution has especially) 
directed its labors. 

In order to facilitate the preparation of a work on the birds ofl 
America, by Prof. Baird, a circular from the Institution was dis* 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

tributed throiigh the State Department to the consular and diplomatic 
agents of the United States in Central and South America, asking aid 
in completing the collection of birds, and we doubt not that much 
new and valuable material will thus be obtained. 

The following are the rules which have been adopted in regard to 
the disposition and use of the collections: 

First. To advance original science, the duplicate type specimens 
are distributed as widely as possible to scientific institutions in this 
and other countries, to be used in identifying the species and genera 
which have- been described. 

Second. For the purposes of education, duplicate sets of specimens, 
properly labelled, are presented to colleges and other institutions of 
learning in this country. 

Third. These donations are made on condition that due credit is to 
be given the Institution in the labelling of the specimens, and in all 
accounts which may be published of them. 

Fourth. Specimens are presented to foreign institutions, on condi- 
tion that if type specimens are wanted for comparison or other use 
in this country they will be furnished when required. 

Fifth. In return for specimens which may be presented to colleges 
and other institutions, collections from localities in their vicinity shall 
be furnished when wanted. 

In the disposition of the undescribed specimens of the collection, 
the following considerations have been observed as governing prin- 
ciples: 

First. The original specimens are not to be intrusted for descrip- 
tion to inexperienced persons, but to those only who have given evi- 
dence of ability properly to perform the work. 

Second. Preference is to be given to those who have been engaged 
in the laborious and difficult enterprise of making complete mono- 
graphs. 

Third. The investigator may be allowed, in certain cases, to take 
the specimens to his place of residence, and to retain them for study 
a reasonable time. 

Fourth. The use of the specimens is only to be allowed on condition 
that a series of types for the Smithsonian museum will be selected 
and properly labelled, and the whole returned in good condition. 

Fifth. In any publications which may be made of results derived from 
an investigation of the materials from the. Smithsonian collection, full 
credit must be accorded to the Institution for the facilities which 
have been afforded. 



38 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

During the past year the assorting and labelling of the specimens 
have been continued, as well as the distribution of duplicates. 

The whole number of entries on the record book of the Smithsonian 
collection, at the end of the year 1861, was G6,075 ; at the end of 
1862, 74,764, and at the end of 1863, 86,847 ; but each entry indi- 
cates a lot consisting of a number of specimens. The whole number 
of duplicate specimens distributed to different institutions in this 
country and abroad, up to the end of the year 1863, has been 94,713. 
As these specimens are distributed on the express condition that full 
credit is to be given to the Institution on the labels, and in all pub- 
lications which may relate to them, the name of Smithson, even 
through this distribution alone, would become familiarly known in 
every part of the civilized world. 

It has been, from the first, one of the prominent objects of the 
Institution to collect the most ample materials for illustrating the 
entire natural history of North America ; to determine the different 
species of plants and of animals ; to ascertain the distribution of the 
former, and the migrations of the llftter. This object it has endea- 
vored to accomplish through the agency of the different surveying 
expeditions of government ; through explorations instituted at its own 
expense, and by enlisting the co-operation of individuals interested 
in science, and of local scientific societies. In all its efforts in this 
line it has been heartil}^ supported, and it is believed that its labors 
have been productive of valuable results. The collections thus made 
have been intrusted to competent investigators for examination and 
description, and the results published in the different Smithsonian 
series, in transactions of societies, and in various government reports. 
For a list of what has already been prepared and published, either 
by the Institution or under its direction, I would refer to a report on 
this subject in preparation by Professor Baird. 

* 3Iuseu7a. — The additions to the museum, in the line of natural his- 
tory, are principally confined to the type specimens which have been 
collected and described at the expense of the general government, or 
under the immediate auspices of the Institution. Even thus restricted, 
the specimens increase in number more rapidly than the portion of 
the Smithsonian fund which can be devoted to their support will 
authorize. Few persons have an idea of the labor, constant care, and 
expense which attends the proper preservation of a series of objects 
of natural history ; but those who have had the necessary experience 
know that large miscellaneous collections can onl}^ be properly sup- 
ported by governments , and, in the establishment of provincial socio- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

ties, the rule has been strongly recommended of attempting to pre- 
serve nothing except what is strictly local. "It is the experience 
of societies," says Dr. Jardine,* the celebrated Scotch naturalist, 
"that general collections are encumbrances, and in most instances 
get destroyed for want of care, or they are dispersed. Within these 
fetv^ years the really fine and valuable collection of the Zoological 
Society of London, chiefly presented by the late N. A. Vigors, a 
first-rate scholar and naturalist, and containing many unique things 
from our scientific exploratory voyages, has been sold. That of the 
Entomological Society has also been sold, and the greater part of that 
belonging to the Linnaean Society was sold' during the last month, 
because there was not sufficient space to keep what had been pre- 
sented to them. The collection of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 
is now undergoing the same process." 

During the past year the woi'k of labelling the specimens in the 
museum, so that the common, as well as the scientific name of each 
article may be distinctly exhibited, has been continued. 

Explorations. — The only explorations during the past year, under 
the auspices and at the expense of the Institution, are, 1st, the con- 
tinuation of that of Mr. Xantus on the western coast of Mexico ; and, 
2d, that by Mr. Meek in New Jersey and th-e lower part of Virginia. 
The explorations of Mr. Xantus extended several hundred miles 
along the western coast of Mexico in a region little known, and very 
abundant in interesting objects. 

The exploration of Mr. Meek related to the collection of complete 
series of shells to illustrate the tertiary formation of the seaboard of 
New Jersey and Virginia. Several series of shells were obtained, 
which are in the process of being accurately labelled, and are intended 
for distribution to some of the principal colleges of the country. 

Exchanges. — The important aid rendered to science and literature 
by the system of international exchange which has for many years 
been actively carried on by the Institution, is still everywhere highly 
appreciated. Our operations in this line are becoming more and 
more extensive, requiring an additional amount of time, labor, and 
attention, as well as largely increasing in expense. The great liber- 
ality of many of the transportation companies alone enables us to 
carry on the system in its present extent, and we again tender our 
acknowledgments, especially to the following parties, who have 

* Address of Sir W. Jardine, president of the Dumfriesshire and Galloway Natural History 
and Antiquarian Society, December, 1863 



4.Q REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

assisted us in this respect : The North German Lloyd, between Bre- 
men and New York ; the Hamburg and New York steamship line ; 
the Cunard line ; the Panama Railroad Company ; the Pacific Mail 
Steamship Company ; Adams's Express Company, and the Hudson's 
Bay Company. 

During the past year it was deemed advisable to establish a new 
agency of exchanges for Holland and Belgium, and Mr. Fred. 
Muller, bookseller, at Amsterdam, Avho was appoihted the agent, 
has entered upon the discharge of his duties with zeal and efficiency. 
The numbers of the transactions of the societies in the countries 
referred to necessary to complete the sets in the Smithsonian library, 
as well as much other valuable scientific and literary material, have 
been procured by him. The other foreign agents of the Institution 
are still Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic, Mr. Wesley, London, and Gustave 
Bossange, Paris. 

From the tabular statement given by Professor Baird, it appears 
that during the year 1863 there have been sent to foreign countries 
1,426 packages, each containing a number of articles, enclosed in 61 
boxes, measuring 447 cubic feet, and weighing 10,286 pounds. The 
number of packages received in return for societies and individuals in 
this country was 1,522, included in which, for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, were 4,589 books and pamphlets, besides specimens of natural 
history. 

Library. — The policy in regard to the library as has frequently 
been previously stated, is to form a collection as perfect as possible 
of all the tranactions and proceedings of the learned societies of the 
world. The success of the Institution in this enterprise has been fully 
commensurate with the expectations entertained, and the collection of 
works of this class, if the accumulation continues under the same favor- 
able conditions, will soon rival any other of a like kind in the world. 
The liberal distribution which the Institution has made of its own pub- 
lications and those of government has produced a rich return in series 
of transactions which, although existing as duplicates in some of the 
older libraries of Europe, can scarcely be obtained by purchase. 

It was mentioned in the last report that -the number of transactions 
and proceedings of learned societies contained in the library of the 
Institution had increased so much that a new edition of the cata- 
logue previously published had become necessary. This w^ork has 
since been put to press, and will be printed as rapidly as the care 
necessary to insure acccuracy will permit. Copies of this catalogue 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 41 

will be distributed to all the principal libraries of the country, and 
with the liberal policy which has been adopted in regard to the books 
of the Smithsonian collection, will serve to render the library more 
generally useful. 

By exchanges there have been received 719 octavos, 167 quartos, 
and 24 folios ; of parts of volumes and pamphlets, in octavo, 2,119 ; 
in quarto, 779 ; in folio, 581 ; maps and charts 200 ; total, 4,589. 
In addition to these about 400 volumes were purchased. 

Among the valuable works received during the year, are the fol- 
lowing : 

55 volumes from the Royal Library of Stockholm. 

Coraptes-Rendus, 1859, 18G0, 1861, with atlas, from the Commission 
Imperiale Archa^logique, St. Petersburg. 

12 volumes and 18 parts of volumes from the Koninlijk Institut des 
Ingenieurs, d' Gravenhage. 

52 volumes and 94 pamphlets from the Nederlaudsch Maatschappig 
ter Bevordering van Nijverheid, Haarlem. 

10 volumes of its own publications from the Societe pour la recherche 
et la conservation des Monuments Historiques du Grand Duche de 
Luxembourg, Luxembourg. 

24 volumes and 12 parts from the Kaiserliche Akademie der Wis- 
senschaften, Vienna. 

9 volumes and 29 charts from the Etablissement Geographique de 
Bruxelles. 

21 volumes of Proceedings from the Societe d' Agriculture, Com- 
merce, Science et Arts du Dept. de la Marne. 

24 volumes of Proceedings and Transactions from the Institution 
of Civil Engineers, London. 

36 volumes and 114 charts from the Board of Admiralty, London. 

Large donations from the Royal University of Norway. 

Braddam's Memoirs of the Royal Society of London, vol. I — X, 
1745, from Mrs. Mary A. Malthie, Syracuse, New York. 

26 volumes from the Regents of the University in behalf of the 
State of New York. 

Lectures. — The usual course of lectures has been commenced for the 
present season, and will embrace the following : 

Five lectures, by Rev. John Lord, of New York, on the ' ' Fall of 
the Roman Empire." Subjects. — I. The grandeur and glory of the 
Ancient Civilization — The external splendor of the Roman Em- 
pire in its latter days. II. The internal hollo wness and defects 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 

of the old Roman civilization — The shame and miseries of society — 
The vices of self-interest, and preparation for violence and inev- 
itable ruin. III. The fall of the empire, and the desolations pro- 
duced hy the barbarians — The destruction of the old fabric of so- 
ciety. IV. The reasons Avhy the old conservative influences of 
paganism did not arrest the ruin— The failure of art, literature, and 
science, and the mechanism of governments. Y. The reasons why 
Christianity did not save the Empire, and the ideas which the church 
incorporated with subsequent civilizations — The foundation of the 
new Teutonic structure. 

Three lectures, by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massa- 
chusetts, on the "Glacial period." 

- One lecture, by Professor J. L. Campbell, of Wabash College, on 
"Galileo." 

Seven lectures, by Dr. Reinhold Solger, on "The Races of Men." 

Six lectures, by Professor W. D. Whitney, of Yale College, on 
" Philology." I. History and objects of linguistic science — Plan of 
these lectures — Why and how do we speak English — How language 
is preserved and perpetuated — Its constant change — The study of 
language an historical science. II. Illustration of the processes of 
growth and change in language — Formation of words by combination 
of old materials— Mutilation and corruption of existing forms — Change 
and development of meaning — Rate of progress of these changes. 
III. Statement and illustration of the influences causing the growth 
of dialects, and those checking and counteracting this growth — Our 
language a Germanic dialect, with partly French vocabulary — Other 
languages with which it is related — Branches of the Indo-European 
family of languages, and proof that they are of common descent — 
Place, period, and grade of civilization of the original tribe. lY. His- 
torical and linguistic importance of the Indo-European race and lan- 
guage — History of the language — Its development from monosyllabic 
roots. Y. Survey of the other great families of language, Semitic, 
Sc3'thian, Chinese, Polynesian, Egyptian, African, and American — 
Isolated languages not included in these families. YI. Comparative 
value of linguistic and physical evidence of race, and their relative 
bearing on the science of ethnology — Relation of the study of language 
to the question of the unity of the human race — origin of language — 
Its character and value to the human race." 

The number of applications for the use of the lecture-room has 

* A synopsis of this course of lectures has been furnished by the author for insertion in the 
appendix to this report. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. • 43 

been much less since the adoption of the rule restricting its use to 
the purposes of the Institution exclusively has become more gener- 
ally known. This rule, which has been widely approved of by the 
enlightened public, has precluded a large amount of unprofitable cor- 
respondence and enabled the Institution to avoid an embarrassing and 
inausjDicious connexion with sensational expositions of the exciting 
subjects of the day. 

From the preceding account of the present condition of the Insti- 
tution, and of its operations during the past year, as well as from the 
examination of the collections and publications, it is hoped that, not- 
withstanding the unfavorable condition of the country for scientific 
research, and the diminished means at our command, it will appear 
that the line of policy and of action originally adopted has been pur- 
sued with unabated ardor and with corresponding success. 
Respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, 

Washington, 1864. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, December 31, 1863. 
Sir: I have tbc liouor to present herewith a report, for 1863, of the opera- 
tious iutrustctl to my charge, coDsistiag especially of those relating to the 
printiug, the exchanges, and the collections of natural history. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, LL.D., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 

printing. 

An accompanying table will show the works printed during the year, and 
also those now in press. The total number of pages belonging to works finished 
within the year is : 

Of quarto papers - 350 pages, 3 plates. 

Octavo Miscellaneous Collections 1, 313 pages. 

Of Avorks still in press there have been printed : 

Of quarto works, about 108 pages. 

Octavo 443 pages. 

Making a total of 458 quarto pages, and 1,756 octavo, exclusive of the annual 
report to Congress, nearly finished, and to fill 450 pages. 

EXCHANGES AND TRANSPORTATION. 

The system of exchanges has been in a highly successful condition during 
1863, both the receipts and transmissions being fully equal to the average of 
any previous year. The attendant expenses of this branch of operations are, 
however, great and increasing, and would long since have become almost pro- 
hibitory but for the liberality exhibited by various transportation companies in 
carrying the boxes and parcels of the Institution free of any charges for freight. It 
is not too much to say that thousands of dollars arc thus presented by the com- 
panies as a recognition on their part of the great importance, domestic as well 
as international, of these operations of the Institution. Among the parties de- 
serving of especial mention in this connexion are the proprietors of the Cunard 
steamers between New York and Liverpool, and New York and Havana ; the 
North German Lloyd, between New York and Bremen ; the Hamburg American 
Packet Company, between New York and Hambiu'g ; the Panama Railroad 
Company ; the Pacific Mail Steamship Company ; the Hudson's Bay Company ; 
the Adams Express Company, &c. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45 

The lustitution is under especial obligations, for important services rendered 
in tbis connexion, to tbe Hon. Hiram Barney, collector of the port of New York, 
and to his assistant, Mr. George Hillier ; to Mr. A. B. Forbes and Mr. Hubbard, 
of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, in San Francisco, as well as to the 
regular agents of the Institution. 

During the year, 1863, a new literary agency of the Institution was established 
for Hollaiicl and Belgium. Mr. Frederick Miiller, bookseller, of Amsterdam, was 
placed in charge, and he has already rendered much service. The other foreign 
agents of the lustitution — Dr. Felix Fliigel, of Leipsic ; Gustave Bossange & 
Company, of Paris ; and Mr. William" Wesley, of London — continue to dis- 
charge their duties with eiSciency, and to the full satisfaction of the Insti- 
tution. 

The number of institutions and individuals, at home and abroad, making use 
of the facilities of scientific exchanges offered bj the Smithsonian Institution is 
continually on the increase, and it is believed that any interruption or suspen- 
sion of this part of the programme of operations would be considered as a serious 
calamity. 

In 18G2 the Institution distributed four volumes of Miscellaneous Collections, 
one volume of Annual Reports, and one thick quarto volume of Meteorological 
Records and Reductions. In 1863, owing to various circumstances, the Annual 
Report for 1861 was the only volume distributed, although many copies of 
separate papers were sent abroad. For this reason the bulk of sending, in 1863, 
was less than that of jjrevious years, but it is expected that the difierence will 
be fully made lip in 1864. 

The following tables exhibit the details of the operations in the line of ex- 
change during 1863 : 



Receipt of hooks, ^., hy exchange in 1863. 
Volumes : 

Octavo 719 

Quarto 167 

Folio 24 

910 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets : 

Octavo 2, 119 

Quarto 779 

Folio 581 

3, 479 

Maps and charts 200 



Total 4, 589 

Receipts in 1861 2, 886 

Receipts in 1862 5, 035 



46 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



B. 

Table sJiowin"- the statistics of the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution 

in 1863. 



Agent and country. 


1^ 


p. 
3 

!2i 


Number of 
boxes. 

• 


a 

to . 

o « 
K a; 

it 

f -2 


Weight of boxes 
in pounds. 


Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic — 


1 

13 

4 
13 

42 

265 

30 

10 


1 

31 
14 
31 

76 
455 

58 
24 








































































Total 


378 


690 


26 


202 


3,500 




Frederick Muller, Amsterdam — 

Holland 


40 


81 
















Total 


40 


81 


4 


31 


1,006 






Gust AVE Bossange & Co., Paris — 


107 

58 

7 

4 


180 
95 
16 

8 








Italv 
































Total 


17G 


299 


13 


88 


2,800 






1C9 


316 


14 


106 


2,580 








20 


40 


4 


20 


400 








783 


1,426 


61 


447 


10, 286 







c. 

Addressed pacliages received hy the SmitJisonian Institution from parties in 
America for foreign distribution in 1863. 

Albany, N. Y. — Number of packages. 

Prof. James Hall 9 

Boston, Mass. — 

American Academy of Ai'ts and Sciences 116 

Boston Society of Natural History 205 

C. J. Sprague 1 

Cambridge, Mass. — 

Harvard College • 31 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 342 

Alexander Agassiz 34 

Prof. Asa Gray 20 

Jules Marcou & 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

Cleveland, Ohio — / 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 60 

Columbus, Oliio — 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 102 

Detroit, Mich. — 

Lieut. Col. J. D. Graham, U. S. A 56 

Ja7iesville, Wis. — 

Institution for the Blind 73 

Montreal, Can. — 

Prof. J. W. Dawson 7 

Isew Haven, Conn. — 

American Journal of Science IS 

American Oriental Society 8 

Prof. J. D. Dana 15 

New York, N. Y.— 

Mercantile Library 10 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 101 

Philadelphia, Pa. — 

Academy of Natural Sciences 165 

Entomological Society of Philadelphia 9 

Pharmaceutical Association : 100 

George W. Tryon 57 

Santa Barbara, Cal. — 

A. S. Taylor 60 

St. Louis, Mo. — 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 172 

Salem, Mass. — 

Prof J. S. Russell 1 

Toronto, Can. — 

Canadian Institute 6 

Utica, N. Y. — 

State Lunatic Asylum 4. 

Washington, D. C. — 

United States Coast Survey 672 

United States National Observatory 149 

United States Patent Office ■ 465 

Superintendent of Census 200 

J. E. Hilgard 15 

Windsor, Nova Scotia — 

Prof. H.How 18 

3, 316 



48 APPENDIX TO THE KEPOKT OP THE SECRET AKY. 

D. 

Addressed packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, for 
distribution in America, in 1863. 




ALBANY, NEW YORK. 

Albany Institute 

Albany Library 

Dudley Observatory 

New Voik Slate ApT'lcnltural Society. 

New York State Library 

New York State Medical Society 

Ne^v York State University 

Dr. E. Emmons 

Professor James Hall 

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College 

Dr. E. Hitchcock 

Charles II. Hitchcock 

Professor Charles Upham Shepherd- . 

ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND. 
State Library 

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN. 

Observatory 

Dr. Brunuow 

AUGUSTA, MAINE. 

State Library 

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. 

Maiyland Historical Society 

Peabody Institute 

Dr. J. ,1. Graves 

Dr. John G. Morris 

P. R. Uhler 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

Boston Society of Natural History . . 

Bowditch Library 

Geological Survey of Massachu- 
setts , 

Massachusetts Historical Society 

New England Historico-Genealogical 
Society 

North American Review 

Perkins' Institute for the Blind 

Prison Discipline Society , 

Public Library 

State Library , 

Dr. S. L. Abbott , 

Dr. T. W. Harris 



2 
1 
G 
29 
21 
1 
4 
1 
4 



86 

65 

1 

3 
3 

1 
1 
1 
1 
4 
4 
1 
1 



BOSTON, MASS. — Continued. 

Professor C. J. Jackson 

Professor Rogers 

S. H. Scudder 

Charles Sprague - 

George Ticknor 

BRATTLEBORO', VERMONT. 

Asylum for Insane 

BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 
Historical Society of Maine 

BURLINGTON, IOWA. 

Iowa Historical auxl Genealogical In- 
stitute 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT. 

University of Vermont...... 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Observatory of Harvard College 

Professor L. Agassiz 

G. P. Bond 

Professor H. J. Clark 

Professor J. P. Cooke 

Dr. Jolm Dean 

Hon. Edward Everett 

Dr. B. A. Gould 

Professor Asa Gray 

Professor H. W. Longfellow 

Professor J. Lovering 

Professor Jirles Marcou 

Professor B. Peirce 

F. W. Putnam 

Dr. T. H. Satford 

Professor G. A. Schmit 

Mr. Tuttle 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Academy of Sciences 

Mechanics' Institute 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

Astronomical Observatory 

Dental Register of the West 

Ilistoiical and Philosophical Society 

of Ohio 

Mercantile Library 

John G. Anthony 



EEPORT OP" THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

D. — Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, ^r. — Continued. 



CLINTON, NEW YORK. 

Observatory of Hamilton College 

Dr. C. H, F. Peters 

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

COLUMBIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Professor S. S. Haldeman 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 

Leo Lesquereux 

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

New Hampshire Historical Society... 
State Library 

DES MOINES, IOWA. 

State Library 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 

Michigan State Agricultural Society.. 

Lieutenant Colonel J. D. Graham 

Dr. Tappan 

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 

EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK. 

Asa Fitch 

EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Prof. J. H. Coffin 

FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

State Library 

GAMBIER, OHIO. 

Kenyon College 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 

Georgetown College 

Dr. H. King 

A. Schott 

4s 



f2i ^ 




51 
4 

2 



21 



HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

State Library 

State Lunatic Asylum 

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 

Historical Society of Connecticut. 
State Library 

HAVANA, CUBA. 

Royal Economical Society 

HUDSON, OHIO. 

Western Reserve College 

Professor Charles A. Young 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Indiana Historical Society 

State Library 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 

State University 

JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS. 
Institution for the Blind 

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

State Institution for the Blind 

JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI. 

Historical Society of Missouri 

State Library 

LANCASTER, OHIO. 

Dr. J. M. Bigelow...*. ... 

LANSING, MICHIGAN. 

State Agricultural College 

State Library 

LEON, NEW YORK. 

T. Apoleon Cheney 

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 

State Library 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

Colonel Long 

Professor J. Lawrence Smith 

Dr. L. P. Yandeil 



50 



APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



D. — Addressed packages receded bytJie Smithsonian Institution, Sfc. — Continued. 




MADISON, WISCONSIN. 

Historical Society of "Wiscousin 

Skaudinaviske Pressc-Fovenin*? 

State Af>-i-icultural Society 

State Library 

MONTPELIER, VERMONT. 

Historical aud Antiquarian Society of 

Vermont 

State Library 

Albert Ilager 

MONTREAL, CANADA EAST. 

Natural History Society 

Professor Billings 

Thomas E. Blackncll 

Professor J. W. Dawson 

Sir W. •Loo^au 

Professor T. S. Hunt 

M. Toly de Lotbiuierc , 

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey 

Professor George IL Cook 



NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and Arts 

American Oriental Society 

Yale College 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor E. Loomis 

Professor B. Silliman 

Professor W. D. "Whitney 

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences » 



NEW YORK, N. Y. 

American Agriculturist 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society 

American Institute 

Astor Library 

Farmer aud Mechanic 

Historical Society 

Journal of Pharmacy 

Medical College , 

New York City Lunatic Asylum 

New York Dental Journal , 

New York Lyconm of Natural History 



13 



1 
2 

29 



1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
] 
53 



NEW YORK, N. Y. — Continued. 

L^'niversity 

W. Cooper 

Dr. Draper 

Dr. Daniel Eaton 

T. Egleston 

D.G. Elliot 

T. W. Greene 

Dr. Harper 

C. F. Jung 

(x. N. Lawrence 

Charles B. Norton 

Edward Norton 

Baron Ostensacken 

Temple Prime 

John H. Redfield 

James Kenwick 

Dr. John Torrey 

Mr. Wheatley 

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Mr. Lyman 

OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY 

Territorial Library 

OMAHA, NEBRASKA. 

State Library 

OWEGO, NEW YORK. 

Mr. Pumpelly 

PEORIA, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. Brendel 

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Philosophical Society 

Ccntial High School 

Dental Cosmos 

Entomological Society 

Franklin Institute 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania. . 

Institution for the Blind 

Wagner Free Institute 

Dr. Allen 

A. D. Brown 

Lorin. Blodget 

J. Cassin 

F.Clay 

T. A. Conrad 

Dr. E. D. Cope 

E. T. Cresson 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51 

D. — Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, Sfc. — Continued. 



O fciC 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. — Continued. 

E. Durand 

Professor "Haldeman 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. J. L. Le Conte 

Dr. Joseph Leidy 

H. Norton 

G. Ord 

William Sharswood 

H. S. Tanner 

George W. Tryon 

Professor Wagner 

Horatio C. Wood 

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 

Professor A. Guyot 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Rhode Island Histoiical Society 

State Library 

Professor A. Caswell 

QUEBEC, CANADA EAST. 

Astronomical Observatory 

Laval University , 

Literary and Historical Society 

QUINCY, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. John Ritter 

ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. Velie 

Benjamin D. Walsh 

RYE, NEW YORK. 

John C. Jay 

SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA. 

State Library 

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

Deutsche Institute ftir Forderung der 

Wissensckaften 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 

St. Louis University 

Dr. George Bernays 

Dr. George Engelmann 

Dr. Adam Hammer 

Dr. B. F. Shumard 

John Wolf 



1 

86 
1 
] 
5 
1 

10 
1 



ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Historical Society of St. Paul 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Essex Institute 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 
Professor W. P. Blake '. . .' .' '. ........ 



SANTIAGO, CHILI. 
University 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 



State Agricultural Society . 
State Library 



STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

TORONTO, CANADA WEST. 

Bureau of Agriculture and Statistics.. 

Canadian Institute 

Magnetical and Meteorological Obser- 
vatory 

University College 



TOPEKA, KANSAS. 

State Library 

TRENTON, NEW JERSEY. 

State Library 

UTICA, NEW YORK. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 

Library of Congress 

National Observatory 

Navy Department 

Ordnance Bureau 

Revenue Department 

Secretary of State 

Surgeon General United States Army 

Topographical Bureau 

United States Coast Survey , 

United States Patent Office , 



52 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

D. — Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, ifc. — Continued. 



WASHINGTON, D. C. — Continued. 



War Department 

Colonel J. G. Abert 

Professor A. D. Bacbe 

Dr. E. Coues 

Theo. Gill 

Captain .1. M. Gilliss 

General Emory 

Mr. Glover 

Dr. F. V. Hayden 

Professor Hubbard 

General A. A. Hninphreys. 

Colonel iS. H. Long 

D. Smith McCauley 

Professor G. A. Matile 



O bo 



6 
4 

] 

1 

24 

2 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 



WASHINGTON, D. c. — Continued. 



T. Posche 

Captain John Rodgers . . 

S. W. Simm 

H. R. Schoolcraft 

Dr. W. Stimpson 

W. A. Treadway 

H. Ulke 

Baron Von Gerolt 

Captain Charles Wilkes. 
John Xantus 



WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Antiquarian Society . 



6^ 



Total of addresses 273 

Total of parcels 1, 522 



MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS. 

It is gratifying to bo able to state that the interest in the subject of natural 
history, which received so material a check in 1861, and showed symptoms of 
revival in 18G2, has continued to manifest itself still more strongly during the 
year 1863. No better indication of this could be found than in the increase in 
the number of collections received by the Institution, which amounted to 264 
distinct donations in 1863, while, in 1862, there were but 124. 

Among the collections received have been many specimens of great interest; 
some, the results of special explorations under the auspices of the Institution for 
developing the natural history of portions of this continent ; others, the sponta- 
neous offerings of correspondents; and others, again, exchanges received in return 
for donations of specimens on the part of the Institution. No additions have 
been made by purchase, the Institution not having funds at its command for 
this purpose. It has, nevertheless, been found that a given amount of money 
can be better applied in meeting the expenses of explorations in particular 
regions than in buying collections already made. The results thus obtained 
are usually mcn-e varied in their character, and more important, from having 
been accomplished under definite instructions, and M'ith special reference to the 
acquisition of lacts and information additional to that which would be furnished 
by the specimens themselves. It is not merely specimens of natural history 
that are secured in the course of the several explorations, but information is 
obtained respecting the habits of animals, the ethnological peculiarities of human 
races, the meteorology, the physical geography, the geology of the country, &c. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

Among the explorations wholly or partially carried on under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, and furnishing results of more or less interest, may 
be lUtMitioned the following : 

Explorations by Mr. Kcnnicoft. — A brief mention was made in the last 
report of the return of Mr. Kennicott, late in 1862, after an absence of nearly 
four years in the north, his movements while there having previously been indi- 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

cated in the reports of 1859, 1860, .and 1861. By the arrival of all his collec- 
tions, and those of gentlemen connected with the Hndson's Bay Company, who 
have so liherally aided him and the Institution in the effort to develop a 
knowledge of the natural and physical liistory of the north, we are now enabled 
better to realize the magnitude of the resxdts of these operations. The collec- 
tions received in 1863 (which include some which should have arrived in the 
end of 1862) hlied forty boxes and packages, many of them of large size, and 
.veighing, in the aggregate, about 3,000 pounds. They embraced thousands of 
kins of birds and mammals, eggs of nearly all the birds nesting in the north, 
numerous skulls and skeletons of animals, fishes in alcohol and preserved dry, 
insects, fossils, plants, &c. 

Not in any way inferior in interest and importance to the natural history 
collections were those relating to the ethnological peculiarities of the Esquimaux 
and different tribes of Indians inhabiting the Arctic regions. It is believed that 
no such series is elsewhere to be found of the dresses, weapons, implements, 
utensils, instruments of Avar and of the chase, &c., &c., of the aborigines of 
Northern America. 

The cataloguing and labelling of the specimens last received is now iiearly 
completed, and Mr. Kennicott will then proceed to make a detailed report of the 
scientific results of his operations, as well as those of the various gentlemen of 
the Hudson's Bay service who co-operated in the work. The materials at his 
command will serve to fix with precision the relationships of the arctic animals 
to those of more southern regions, their geographical distribution, their habits 
and manners, and other particulars of interest, and to extend very largely the 
admirable records presented by Sir John Richardson relative to arctic zoology. 
The Institution has already acknowledged, in many ways, its indebtedness 
to the Hudson's Bay Company, as well as to its officers, for their numerous 
favors — the company itself, through its secretary, Mr. Thos. Fraser, of London; 
the governors. Sir George Simpson and Mr. Dallas ; Mr. E. M. Hopkins, the 
secretary at Montreal ; the chief factors. Governor Wm. McTavish, Mr. George 
Barnston, Mr. John McKenzie, Mr. J. A. Grahame, Mr. Wm. Sinclair ; the 
chief traders, Mr. B. R. Ross, Mr. W. L. Hardisty, Mr. R. Campbell, Mr. Jas. 
Lockhart, and others, together with Mr. R. W. MacFarlane, Mr. L. Clarke, Mr. 
S. Jones, Mr. J. S. Onion, the Rev. W. W. Kirkby, Messrs. Andrew and 
James Flett, Mr. C. P. Gaudet, Mr. John Reid, Mr. Harriot, and others — all 
have lent their aid towards the accomplishment of the work — every possible 
facihty was given to Mr. Kennicott, every privilege granted within the rules of 
the company. At all the posts he was an honored guest, and he and his col- 
lections and outfit were transported from point to point in the company's boats 
and sledges without charge. 

In addition to collections from the region traversed by Mr. Kennicott in his 
four years' exploration, some valuable specimens have been received from other 
points of British North America. Conspicuous among these is a series of birds 
and eggs from Rigolette, in Labrador, gathered by Mr. Henry Conolly, of the 
Hudson's Bay Company's service, and brought to Boston, without charge, by 
Mr. J. W. Dodge. This collection embraced specimens of the rare Labrador 
falcon, and others of much interest. A collection of birds and other objects 
of natural history, made at Moose Factory, for the Institution, by Mr. John 
McKenzie, has reached London by ship from Hudson's Bay, and may shortly 
be expected in Washington. 

Exploration of Wcstctn Mexico hy Mr. Xantus. — In my last report I men- 
tioned that Mr. John Xantus, so long and so well known in connexion Avith 
explorations about Fort Riley, Kansas, Fort Tejon, California, and Cape St. 
Lucas, was about proceeding to a new field of operations. He left New York 
on the 11th of December, 1802, for Manzanillo, Mexico, the Panama Railroad 



54 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Company and the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, with that liberality they 
have so steadily exhibited in their transactions Avith the Institntion, having 
"•iveu free passage over their respective rontes to himself and his outfit. Mr. 
Xantus arrived at Manzanillo early in January, lbG3, and making this and 
Colima his principal ])oints of departure, extended his explorations in various 
directions, especially among the mountain regions. He is still occupied in his 
labors, the field being very extensive and of varied interest. Many of his col- 
lections have already been received, and found to contain numerous species 
of birils, reptiles, fishes, shells, &c., new to science, while others throw much 
lio-ht on the geographical distribution of the plants and animals of Mexico and 
Central America. 

Explorat'ionn in Costa Rica. — For some time jiast much attention has been 
directed by naturalists toward the natural history of Costa Rica, a region which, 
from its- peculiar jjhysical conformation, indicated a fauna quite ditiereut from 
that of the adjacent states. The birds were particularly sought after owing to 
tin.' many remarkable forms, brought to light by travellers. It was, therefore, 
with no little gratification that a collection of birds, made by Dr. A. Von Frant- 
zius, an eminent naturalist and physician, resident in Costa Rica, aided by the 
Hon. C. N. Riottc, United States minister, and Mr. J. Carniol, was received a 
few mouths ago at the Institution. A careful examination of these specimens 
proved that the peculiar interest of the iauna had not been overestimated, a 
large proportion of the species being either new, or but recently described. 
Additional collections, shortly expected from Dr. Von Frautzius, will, it is 
hoped, increase still more our knowledge of the species. 

MisccUancous explorations in Mexico. — For several years past a highly valued 
meteorological correspondent of the Institution, Dr. Charles Sartorius, of Mira- 
dor, has made contributions of specimens of the natural history of his vicinity. 
During the year several collections were received from him of much interest and 
importance, especially certain species of Mexican deer, recently described, and 
but little known. As Dr. Sartorius, aided by his son, Mr. Florentin Sartorius, 
is now engaged in preparing an account of the animals of eastern Mexico, with 
special reference to their habits, &c., it is a source of gratification to us to have it 
in our power to aid him by identifying the species from his specimens, which his 
remoteness from large collections and libraries prevents him from doing for him- 
eelf. Prof. F. Sumichrast, of Orizaba, has also made valuable contributions of 
birds and mammals of Mexico, and proposes to renew these whenever the con- 
dition of the internal affiiirs of Mexico will allow of the transmission of his 
collections. Dr. G. Bereudt, of Tabasco, is also occupied in a similar manner 
in the interest of science and of the Institution. 

Explorations in Guatemala and the west coast of Central America. — Mr. 
Osbert Salvin, an eminent English ornithologist, who has spent many years in 
the exploration of Guatemala, has transmitted to the Institution a second col- 
lection of the birds of that region. As these contain specimens of most of his 
new species, and all have been carefully compared, as far as practicable, with 
the types, his series of birds is of especial value, as furnishing standards for the 
identification of other collections. 

Additional collections of much interest continue to be sent to the Institution 
by Captain J. M. Dow, of the Panama Railroad Company, so frequently men- 
tioned in my previous reports. Certain rare birds and fishes collected by him 
are especially noteworthy. 

Trinidad. — A collecti(ni of nearly fifty species of birds of Trinidad was pre- 
sented by ^Ir. Galody, United States consul at Antigua, embracing many species 
not formerly in possession of the Institution. 

Jamaica. — Mr. W. T. March, from whom the Institution has already received 
extensive collections in Jamaican zoology, has again made an important contri- 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. bO 

butiou of au extensive series of birds' uests and eggs, the materials upon which 
he based a memoir on the birds of Jamaica, transmitted to the Institution, to be 
published by the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, and printed in its 
proceedings for November, 1863. 

Cuba. — Additional collections were received during the year from Mr. Charles 
Wright and Professor F. Poey, embracing new and rare species of birds, shells, 
i-eptiles, and fishes. Some collections, transmitted by Dr. J. Grundlach, have 
not yet reached us. 

Ecuador. — The Hon. C. R. Buckalew, now United States senator, while 
United States minister, resident at Ecuador, made quite an extensive collection 
of the birds of that country, which he has lately presented to the Institution. 
Nearly all of the species thus obtained were new to the cabinet. 

No collections of magnitude, from regions or localities other than American, 
have been received during the year. It is not the intention or expectation of 
the Institution to make general collections of the natural history of the globe, 
neither its space nor available funds warranting so broad a field of operations. 
By limiting its labor to America, a hope may be entertained of possessing, in 
time, a complete series of the animals of the continent. 

Exotic collections, as far as they are spontaneously offered, and especially 
such as are necessary to illustrate the characters of American species, are 
always acceptable, and the specimens gathered by the government exploring 
expeditions, of which the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian, will always 
be carefully preserved ; but any especial efforts towards the increase of the 
museum may advantageously be confined, as a general policy, to the New 
AVorld. 

The most important additions, it will be readily seen, relate to the class of 
birds. Desirous of extending the observations upon the birds of North 
America, as published in the ninth volume of the Pacific railroad report, a cu'- 
cular was issued by the Institution, which has been distributed by the State 
Department to the consular and diplomatic oificers of the United States in the 
foreign portions of America, asking aid in completing the collection of birds ; 
and important additions are expected from the request thus extended. The 
materials received will be used, in connexion with those already in possession 
of the Institution, in the preparation of catalogues and monographs relative to 
American ornithology. 

Among the specimens received by the Institution during the year should 
especially be mentioned the great Ainsa or Tucson meteorite. 

This meteorite was first discovered by the Jesuit missionaries in Sonora, by 
whom it was considered a great curiosity, exciting much speculation as to its 
origin. In 1735 the "Gran Capitan de las Provincias del Occidente, Don Juan 
Baptista Anza, was induced to visit the aerolite," and found it at a place called 
"Z/05 Muchaches," in the Sierra Madre, and, struck with its appearance, under- 
took to transport it to San, Bias, then the nearest port of entry, with the view 
of carrying it to Spain. With this object it was brought as far as the Presidio, 
near Tucson, in Arizona, and left there on account of the difficulty of carrying 
it any further. After the withdrawal of the Spanish garrison it was taken into 
the town of Tucson, set up vertically, and used as a kind of public anvil, of 
which it bears marks at the present time. In this condition it was seen and 
reported upon by various travellers ; among others it was visited by John R. 
Bartlett, July 18, 1852, at the time Commissioner of the United States and 
Mexican Boundary Survey. Mr. Bartlett gives a short account of it, (Personal 
Narrative, volume II, p. 297,) accompanied by a figure, (the lower one on the 
plate,) where it is represented as resting upon two legs, owing to the lower 
part of the ring, of which it consists, being buried in the ground. His estimate 
of six hundred pounds as its weight falls far within the actual amount. 



56 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In 1857, Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, United States army, then stationed at Fort 
Buchanan, south of Tucson, found this meteorite lying in one of the by streets 
of the village, half buried in the earth. As no one claimed it, he publicly 
announced his intention to take possession of it and forward it to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, whenever an opportunity offered. Some time after, assisted 
by Mr. Palatine llobinson, of Tucson, (near to whoso house the meteorite lay,) 
he succeeded in having it sent, by the agency of Mr. Augustine Ainza, to 
Hernuisillo, where it remained for some time at the hacienda of Don Manuel 
Ynigo, father-in-law of Mr. Ainza. 

In jNIay, 1863, Mr. Jesus Ainza, brother of Mr. Augustine Ainza, and grand- 
son of Doua Ana Ainza do Iglas, the daughter of Don Juan Bautista Ainza, 
visited Sonora, and on his return brought the meteorite with him to San Fran- 
cisco, where it was delivered by his brother, M. Santiago Ainza, to the agent 
of the Smithsonian Institution, Mr. A. B. Forbes, of the Pacific Mail Steamship 
Company, and forwarded by him, via the Isthmus, to Washington, where it 
arrived in November, and is now on exhibition, and the great object of attraction 
to visitors in the Smithsonian hall. It is proper to state that, although Dr. 
Irwin was authorized to expend whatever was necessary to secure the trans- 
mission of the meteorite to San Francisco, beyond some small expenses paid 
by him for placing it upon the truck in Tucson, no charge was made by the 
Ainza family for the cost of transportation to Guaymas and delivery to the 
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, performed partly with their own wagons 
and partly by other means of conveyance. It was brought free of charge from 
Guaymas to San Francisco by the Flint and Haliday line of steamers. While 
on the route to New York the Pacific Mail Steamship Company and the 
Panama Railroad Company, with that liberality which has ever characterized 
their intercourse wath the Smithsonian Institution, transported it without 
expense to Aspinwall, and thence to New York. 

The meteorite is in the shape of an immense signet ring, much heavier on 
one side, where it is nearly flat on its outer surface, and presents tiie iace used 
as an anvil. The greatest exterior diameter is 49 inches ; width of thickest 
part of the ring 9 inches, the least 38 inches ; the greatest width of the central 
opening, 23 inches; width of thickest part of the ring, 17^ inches. The weight 
is now 1,400 pounds, but some portions have been removed from time to time, 
probably reducing it considerably. Its composition is principally of iron, with 
small specks of a whitish silicious mineral diffused through it. 

A careful chemical and physical examination of the meteorite will be made 
by Professor G. J. Brush, of New Haven, to whom the Smithsonian Institution 
has committed the subject for a detailed report. 

As the a;rolite was first brought from the mountains north of Tucson by the 
great grandfather of the gentleman to whose exertions in transporting it to 
Washington the Institution owes so much, it is proposed to call it the " Ainsa 
meteorite." To Dr. Irwin, of the United States medical department, the Insti- 
tution is also under great obligations for his agency in securing this specimen. 

Dr. Irwin states that the inhabitants of Tucson have a tradition that a shower 
of these meteorites took place in the Santa Catarina mountains about two hun- 
dred years ago, and that there are many other masses of a similar character 
yet remaining in those mountains. 

This meteorite is among the largest known, and in this country is only 
exceeded a little in weight by the Gibbs meteorite in the cabinet of Yale Col- 
lege, New Haven, while it surpasses the latter in size, being disposed in the 
form of a ring instead of a solid mass. 

The Smithsoniitn Institution also possesses the third largest meteorite in the 
country in the "Couch meteorite," weighing 252 pounds, and brought from 
Northeastern Mexico by Major General D. N. Couch, and by him presented 
to the Institution. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



57 



IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIMENS. 

Continued progress has been made during tlie year in the determination and 
arrangement of the species in the Smithsonian collections, and the cabinet is 
gradually becoming more and more useful for reference and study. Any appa- 
rent shortcoming in this respect will be excused in view of the fact that the 
work done is mainly a voluntary contribution on the part of gentlemen engaged 
in making special examinations of the Smithsonian collections, and the Insti- 
tution is under many obligations for their assistance. 

DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS. 

In accordance with the plan of the Institution, as fast as the identification 
of the species is satisfactorily accomplished, the duplicate specimens are set 
aside for distribution to such museums at home and abroad as appear to be 
suitable recipients. The total number of objects thus distributed to the end 
of the year 1863, all properly determined and labelled, amounts to 26,651 
species, and 50,601 specimens, as shown by the following schedule : 

Statement of specimens of natural history distributed by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution up to December 31, 1863. 





Prior to 1854. 


1854 to July, 
1861. 


1861 to August, 
1863. 


Total. 


Special distribu- 
tion of shells of 
Exp'g Exp'n. 


Specimens. 




a 
S 

o 
p. 


1 


1 

u 

P. 

CO 




1 

a, 


P. 


n 
.§ 
&. 

02 


t» 


1 

<a 
a, 
Id 




5 

825 

18 


5 

1,035 

22 


404 

3, 162 

1,470 

1, 623 

9.-i6 

551 

588 

216 
1,537 


624 
4,255 
2,356 
3,921 
1,894 

727 
1,985 

330 
3,558 


172 

1,787 

18 

20 


216 

2,494 

18 

28 


581 

5,774 

1,506 

1,643 

936 

551 

898 

528 

2,279 

747 


845 
7,784 
2,396 
3,949 
1,894 

727 
2,365 

712 
5, 100 
2,238 


1 


Birds 














































310 

312 
628 
747 


380 

400 
1,235 
2,238 


10, 934 


44, 112 


Invertebrates, in- 








Eggs of birds 


114 


307 
























Skulls 


58 


58 






5 

211 


5 
354 


63 

211 


63 
354 


























Total 


1, 0-20 


1,527 


10, 487 


19, 650 


4,210 


7,368 


26, 651 


72, 657 


10, 934 


44, 112 



In the index to the three volumes of transmissions of specimens for examina- 
tion, or donation, the names of two hundred and fifty-nine institutions and indi- 
viduals are entered up to August, 1863. 

N. B. — The preceding enumeration of specimens distributed does not include 
the specimens ("duplicates) retained by collaborators in behalf of certain author- 
ized collections — as of insects, by Messrs. Lecoute, Uhler, Morris, Ostensackeu^ 
Saussure, Edwards, Hagen, Loew, Scudder, &c. ; of vertebrate fossils, by Leidy, 
for the Philadelphia Academy ; of fishes, by Professor Agassiz ; shells, by 
Messrs. Carpenter, Binney, Tryon, &:c. ; mammals, by Messrs. Leconte, Allen. 
&c. ; birds, by Mr. Cassin ; reptiles, by Mr. Cope ; plants, by Messrs. Torrey, 
Gray, Engelman, and Eaton. These will probably amount to at least 10,000 
species, and 30,000 specimens additional. 

The cataloguing of specimens in the record-books of the Institution has been 
continued during the year, and, as will be seen by the accompanying table, now 
amounts to 86,547 entries, being an increase, since 1863, of over 12,000. 



58 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRET AR IT. 



Table showing fhc total mnnher of entries on the record-hooks of the Smithsonian 
collection at the end of the years 1861, 1802, and 18G3. 



Skeletons and skulls... 

Miunnials 

Birds 

Kt'ptik'S 

Fishes 

Eggs of birds 

Crustiiceaus 

MoUusks 

Radiates 

Fossils 

Minerals 

Ethnological specimens 
Annelids 

Total 



1861. 



459 
550 
510 

088 
()43 
830 
287 
718 
800 
031 
500 
550 
105 



66, 075 



1862. 



4, 750 
5,900 

26, 157 
6,311 
4, 925 
6,000 
1,287 

10, COO 

2, 675 

2, 100 

3, 725 

825 

109 



74, 764 



1863. 



6,275 
7, 175 

31,800 
6,325 
5,075 
7,275 
1,287 

10, 450 

2, 725 

2, 550 

4, 925 

875 

no 



86,847 



LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

IN 1863. 

Atkins, L. S. — Eggs of birds and shells from Ohio. 

Ainsa, J. — See Irwin. 

AkJmrst, J. — Birds from St. Thomas, West Indies. 

Baer, O. P. — Uniouidte from Indiana. 

Baird, S. F. — Iron ore from Hanover station ; series of skins and eggs of birds, 
mammals, fishes, and invertebrates, from Wood's Hole and Cohasset, Massa- 
chusetts. 

Baird, Mrs. S. F. — Leuciscus, from Pott)mac river. 

Beadle, Rev. E. R. — Bergen Hill minerals. 

Bean, W. — Collection of annelids and cirripeds of Great Britain. 

Behrens, Dr. — Insects from California. 

Berlin Musewm. — 54 skins of birds of Central and South America. 

BethuUe, Rev. C. S. — Skin of Scalojys hreiceri, Canada. 

Bluckmuri, Mr. — Skins and eggs of birds, Illinois. 

Blake, W. P. — Keg of fishes from Hakodadi, Japan. 

Bland, Thomas. — Spiraxis, from West Indies. 

Boardman, George A. — Embryo Canada grouse in alcohol ; skins and eggs of 
birds. 

Bouve, Thomas T. — Large crystals of beryl. 

Brass, W. — Birds, mammals, &c.. Fort Halkctt. 

Brcvoort, J. (J. — Fresh specimen of Zoarces anguillaris. 

Bruckart, II. G. — Insects from Lancaster county, Pennsylvania. 

Buckalcw, Hon. C. R. — Collection of birds of Ecuador. 

Burling, \V. — Skin of Ilalicetus i^clagicas from the Amoor river. (Through 
Samuel Hubbard.) 

Carniol, J. — Skins of Costa Rican birds. 

Carpenter, P. P. — Fossils from vicinity of Moscow. 

Carpenter, Robbie S. — Skin of starling, Sturnus vulgaris, Warrington, England. 

Clark, Law re not. — A general zoological collection from Fort Rae, Great Slave 
lake. 

Coleman, Lyman. — Seeds of Damascus thorn ; petrified wood from Cairo. 

Coleman, IV. T. — Birds and eggs from Canada. 

Comstock, A. — Cuttings of California grapes. 



REPORT OP THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59 

Conolh/, H. — Skins and eggs of birds from Labrador. 

Cooper, Dr. J. G. — Shells of California. 

Cones, Dr. E. — Series of skins of birds of District of Columbia. 

Coivles, P. IV. — Insects from Vicksburg. 

Crosier, Dr. E. S. — Vorticella, &c., Now Albany, Indiana. 

Do Sa/issure, Dr. H. — Skins of Mexican birds, and lacustrian antiquities of 
Switzerland. 

Diebitsck, Professor II. — Rana pipiens. 

Dodd, P. W. — Skulls of animals and eggs of birds from Sable island. 

Dow, Captain J. M. — Skins of mammals, and birds, lishes, &c., from west 
coast of Central America. 

Drew, Dr. F. P. — Collection of reptiles and eggs of birds from Kansas. 

Drewsen, Charles. — Series of Greenland shells. 

Drexler, C. — Series of skins of birds of the District of Columbia. 

Egleston, Thomas. — Series of European fossils. 

Elliot, D. G. — Skins of European gulls ; skins of humming birds. 

Elliot, H. W. — Large collection of Unionidte ; shells, &c., in alcohol, Ohio. 

Engelniami, Dr. — Eossils from Illinois. 

Fairbanks, Pr(>f'cssor. — Box of eggs. 

Fai/, Joseph S. — Chlorastrolite from Lake Superior. 

Flett, Andrew. — Skins and eggs of birds ; Fort Normauu. 

Flett, Jaines. — Eggs of birds, &c., from La Pierre's house. 

Foreman, Dr. E. — Five boxes of minerals from Maryland. 

Freiburg, Mining Acadc?ny of. — Box of mineralogical and geological speci- 
mens from Germany. 

Frick, Dr. — Shells of California and Japan. 

Galodij, M. — Skins of birds of Trinidad. 

Gaudet, C. P. — Skins and eggs of birds, &c., from Peel's rivei*. 

Gibhs, George. — Indian curiosities. 

Gilliss, U. (S. N., Captain. — Six boxes of microscopic soundings. 

Gil/nn, Dr. J. B. — Series of shrews and mice of Nova Scotia. 

Goldsmith, Dr. j\L — Cricket from the Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. 

Gould, Dr. A. A. — Forty species of MelaniadcR. 

Grahame, J. A. — Skins of mammals, &c., Norway House. 

Giehel, Dr. C. — Three boxes of insects of Europe, (365 species.) 

Gruber, Ferd. — Skins and eggs of birds from California. 

Gundlach, Dr. J. — Specimens of Gundlachia, Cuba. 

Gunn, Donald. — Skins and eggs of birds from Red River settlement and Lake 
Winipeg. • * 

Haldcman, Professor S. S. — Types of the species of Melaniada described by 
him. 

Hall, W. F. — Birds and eggs from Massachusetts. 

Hamilton, R. — Collection of skins and eggs of birds from Great Whale river, 
(through Mr. George Barnston.) 

Hardisty, W. L. — Birds, mammals, &;c., from Fort Liard. 

Harris, W. O. — Minerals from Chester county. 

Harriot, Mr. — Skins of birds from Fort Anderson. 

Hays, Dr. TK W. — Fishes, &c., from Sacramento river. 

Hayden, Dr. F. V. — Alcoholic specimens, Beaufort, South Carolina. " 

Huymond, Dr. R. — Cypris from Indiana. 

Hejjburn, James. — Skins and eggs of birds from the Pacific coast. 

Hibhard, Francis. — Lead ore from New Brunswick. 

Hibbard. James. — Antimony ores. New Brunswick. 

Hitz, R. B. Sf' George. — 1,200 eggs, of twelve species of birds, from Northamp- 
ton county, Virginia, with shells, &c. (See also Stimpson.) Fossils from 
Aquia creek. 



60 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Hi'ge, Mr. — Skin of boa from the Sorapiqui river. 

Hiqje, John. — Eggs of birds, fif^hes, &c., Great Bear lake. 

Hotaling, C. F. — Rock salt from Louisiana. 

Hoxie, \V. — Insects from Massaclmsctts. 

Hdij, Dr. P. R. — Nests and eggs from Racine. 

Hunt, General L. C. — Indian knife, Klamath lake. 

Irivin, Dr. W. W.,andJ.Ainsa. — Meteorite from Tucson, weighing 1,400 pounds. 

Jt'ffrei/s, Mr. — Box of minerals of Chester county, Pennsylvania. 

Jones, Strac/tan. — Eggs of birds, &c., from the Yukon. 

Julian, A. A. — Series of fishes, &c.. Sombrero island. 

Keep, Iter. Marcus R. — Moose horns from Maine. 

Kennedy, Dr. H. W. — Collection of reptiles of Uruguay. 

Kcnnirott, R. — Insects, eggs, &c., from Illinois. 

Kcnnicott, R., a?ul others. — Fifteen boxes, three bales, one keg, and one chest 

of Arctic collections. Mr. Keunicott's collections principally from the mouth 

of the Porcupine river, Peel's river, Fort Good Hope, La Pierre's house. Fort 

Resolution, &:c. 
Kirtland, Dr. J. P. — Two boxes of western Unionidce. 
Krefft, Dr. G., (through W. Cooper.) — Collection of Australian reptiles. 
Krider, John. — Mounted hawks. 
Lapkam, I. A. — Unionlda; of Wisconsin. 

hawrence, George N. — Skins of birds from Central America and Panama. 
hea, Isaac. — Box of Unionidce, and one hundred species of Melaniadai. 
hewis, James, Dr. — Large collection of land and fluviatile shells from the in- 
terior of New York. 
Lnckhart, James. — Large series of zoological specimens, principally birds' eggs, 

from the Yukon ; skins of birds, mammals, eggs, &c., from Fort Resolution. 
Lykins, IF. H. R. — Fossils from Kansas. 
MacFarlane, R. W. — A general zoological and ethnological collection from 

vicinity of the Anderson river, Arctic America. 
McGuire, J. C. — Two boxes of Unionidce. 
McKenzie, Hector. — Birds' eggs from Red river. 
McKenzie, J. — Birds, &c., from Fort Resolution. 
McKenzie, Roderick. — Birds' eggs from Lake Manitobah. 
McMurray, W. — Birds' eggs from Winipeg river. 
MacTavish, Gov. William. — Skins and eggs of birds, &c., from the Red River 

country. 
Mann, William. — Skins of Pinicola canadensis, Lake Superior. 
March, W. Thomas. — Three boxes of skins, nests and eggs of Jamaican 

birds. 
Meek, F. B. — Series of fossils from New Jersey and Maryland. 
Moore, Carleton R. — Double tail of Limulus. 
Michener, Dr. E. — 156 crania of birds, and 54 of mammals ; two boxes of 

mnierals. 
Onion, J. S. — Plants, eggs, &c., from Fort Good Hope. 
Palmer, Dr. E. — Fossils, minerals, &c.. Pike's Peak. 
Parker, Rer. H W. — Marine shells, United States, and two boxes of minerals 

from New Bedford. 
Parkinson, D. T. — Skins and eggs of birds, Indian skulls, plants, &e.. Fort 

Crook, California 
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences — Seventy species of Melaniadce. 
Piper, Col., (10th regiment New York volunteer artillery.) — Rock specimens 

and fossil wood from Fort Meigs, near Washington. 
Poey, Prof. F. — Collection of bats and Neuroptera ; fishes from Cuba. 
Poole, Henry. — "Cone in cone" in slate. From a shaft sunk in the Harbor 

Vein coal seam, Little Glace Bay, Cape Breton. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61 

Prentiss, D. W. — Series of sklus of bird3 of the District of Columbia. 

Quackcnbush, Leslie R. — Fossils of the Utica slate. 

Reed, John. — Skins and eggs of birds from Big Island, Great Slave Lake. One 

collection through L. Clarke, jr. 
Reed, Peter. — Sorex platyrhinus, Washington county, New York. 
Richards, T/ios. — Skins of birds, &c., from Temiscamingue. 
Riottc, Hon. C. — Reptiles and insects in alcohol, skins of birds, shells, &c., 

Costa Rica. 
Rttc/iic, J. P. — Skin and egg of Buteo j?ennsijlra7iicus from Massachusetts. 
Rodgers, Commodore John. — Elthnological collections of the North Pacific Ex- 
ploring Expeiition. 
Ross, B. R. — A general zoological collection from Fort Simpson and vicinity. 
Rousseau, E. — Box of shells from New York. 
Sacmann, L. — Box of European minerals. 

Salisbunj, Dr. S. H. — Scalops in alcohol from Fairfield county, Ohio. 
Salle, A. — Skins of Mexican birds. 

Salrin, O. — Collection of birds of Guatemala, (150 species.) 
Sartorius, Dr. C. — Collection of birds, mammals, alcoholic specimens, &c., 

Mexico. 
Sch?nidt, Dr. — Birds from the vicinity of Washington, collected by the late 

Chas. F. Schmidt. 
Sclater, Dr. P. L. — Skins of Mexican birds. 
Si?/ij)son. George B. — Copper spear-head, and other relics. 
Sitka, Governor of. — Box of Crustacea. (Through Mr. Jas. Hepburn.) 
Springer, P. M. — Skins and sterna of birds, Illinois. 
Stimpson, Dr. W. — Three boxes of marine invertebrates of Great Britain ; two 

of American. 
Stimpson, Dr. W. and R. B. Hitz. — Three boxes shells, eggs, &c., Northamp- 
ton county, Virginia. 
Sumichrast, Prof. F. — Mammals and birds of Mexico. 
Su7-s:eon General. — Tertiary fossils, Suffolk, Virg-inia. 
Swan, J. G. — Indian curiosities, skins of birds, eggs, shells, fishes, &c., from 

Puget Sound. 
Thomson, J. II — Box of New England shells. 
Tohnan, J. TF. — Skins and eggs of birds of Illinois. 
Tnnnhidl, George. — Wavellite from Chester county. 
Tryon, G. TF. — One hundred and twenty-five species jof Melaniadce. 
Ulke, II. — Skins of birds from Illinois. 
Van Cortlandt, Dr. E. — Mammals in alcohol, skins of Lepidosteus, &c., from 

Ottawa. 
Frantzins, Dr. — Collection of birds and mammals from Costa Rica. 
Velie, Dr. J. W. — Eggs of Protonotaria citrea, &c., from Illinois. 
Vienna Gculogisches Rcichs-Anstalt. — Collection of Austrian fossils. 
Walker, R. O. — Fishes, shells, skulls, &c., Allegheny county, Pennsylvania. 
White, Dr. — Marine shells and skulls of mammals. Isthmus, Panama. 
Willis, J. R. — Shells, eggs, and fishes of Nova Scotia. 
Williams College Lyceum, — Eggs of Greenland birds. 
Wilson, N. — Seeds of plants from Jamaica. (Through Thos. Bland.) 
Wingate, J. D. — Box of shells, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. 
Woodworth; Dr. J. M. — Reptiles and insects from Memphis. 
Wouton, W. G. — Skins and eggs of birds of Nova Scotia. 
Wright, Chas. — Birds, shells, and insects of Cuba. 

Wynne, Dr. Jas. — Specimen of sphinx or hawk moth from Central America. 
Kantus, John. — Fourteen boxes of mammals, birds, and other animals, plants 
&c., from Manzanillo, Colima, &c. 



62 APPENDIX TO THE KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

LIST OF WORKS PUBLISHED IN 1863. 

(155.) Ancient ]\Iining on tho Shores of Lake Superior. By Charles Whit- 
tlesey. 4to., pp. 32, and one map. (Published April, 1863.) 

(146.) Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Sir Leopold 
McClintock, 11. N. Made on board the Arctic searching yacht " Fox," in 
Billin's Bay and Prince Regent's Inlet in 1857, 1858, and 1859. Reduced and 
dincu.-ised at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution by Charles A. Schott, 
Assistant United States Coast Survey. 4to., pp. 160, and one map. 

A small edition of this work was published in May, 1862, but the final issue, 
with corrections and additions, took place in 1863. 

(16G.) Records and Results of a Magnetic Survey of Pennsylvania and parts 
of adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional Records and Results 
of 1S34, 1835, 1843, and 1862, and a map. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R. S., 
Member of Corresponding Academy of Sciences, Paris ; President of National 
Academy of Sciences ; Superintendent United States Coast Survey. 4to., pp. 
88, and one map. (Published October, 1863.) 

(169.) Researches upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Respiration in the 
Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M. D. 4to., 
pp. 50. (Published April, 1863.) 

(156.) Catalogue of Minerals, with their Formidas, &c. Prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution by T. Egleston. 8vo., pp. 42. 

(140.) List of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithso- 
nian Institution by John L. Leconte, M. D. Part I. 8vo., pp. 60. (Published 
March, 1863.) 

(167.) New Species of North American Coleoptera. Prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution by John L. Leconte, M. D. Part I. 8vo., pp. 94. (Pub- 
lished March, 1863.) 

(142.) Bibliography of North American Conchology previous to the year 
1860. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by W. G. Binney. Part I. 
American authors. 8vo., pp. 658. (Published March, 1863.) 

(171.) Monograph of the Diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution by II. Loew. Part II. Edited by R. Ostensacken. 8vo„ 
pp. 340. (Published January, 1864.) 

(160.) Instructions relative to the Ethnology and Philology of America. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by George Gibbs. 8vo., pp. 36. 
(Published March, 1863.) 

(161.) A Dictionary of the Chinook Jargon or Trade Language of Oregon. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by George Gibbs. 8vo., pp. 60. 
(Published March, 1863.) 

Systematic index to the list of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, corrected to January, 1862. 8vo., pp. 16. 

Appendix to the list of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
corrected to January, 1863. 8vo., pp. 7, 

(170.) Comparative Vocabidary. Reprinted from the Smithsonian Instruc- 
tions relative to ethnology and philology. 4to., pp. 20. (Published ]\Iay, 1863.) 

WORKS STILL IN PRESS. 

(174.) Bibliography of North American Conchology. By W. G. Binney. 
Part II. 8vo., 239 pages stereotyped. 

(143.) Synopsis of Air Breathing Shells. By AV. G. Binney. Svo. 

(144.) Synopsis of North American Vivipara, &c. By W. G. Binney. 8vo. 

(145.) Monograph of American Cor^>/c?</fl;(^(E. By Temple Prime. 8vo., (42 
pages in type.) 

(177.) Check-list of North American Fossils J cretaceous formation. By F 
B. Meek. Svo. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63 

(172.) Palaeontology of the Upper Missouri. By F. B. Meek aud F. V. 
Hayden. 4to. 

(16-5.) Monograpliof North American Bats. By Harrison Allen, M. I). Svo. 

(173.) On the Microscopic IS fracture of the Medulla Oblongata and the Tra- 
pezium. By Dr. John Dean. 4to. 

(175.) Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations of Girard 
Colkge. By Prof. A. D. Bache. Part VII, VIII, IX. 4to. 

(179.) List of publications of learned societies, periodicals, and encyclopaedic 
works in the library of the Smithsonian Institution, July 1, 1863. 

(178.) Monograph of North American Ilymenoptera. By H. De Saussure. 
Part I. Edited by Edward Norton. Svo. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR 1863. 



Name of observer. 



BRITISH AMERICA. 

Acaclia College 

Baker, J. C 

Clarke, Lawrence, jr 

Connolly, Henry 

Delaney, Edward M. J 

Everett, Prof. J. D 

Flett, Andrew 

Hall, Archibald, M. D 

McFarlane, U i 

Magnetic Observatory 

Mnrdock, G 

Phillips, H 

Rankin, Colin 

Kichurds, Thomas 



MEXICO. 

Laezlo, Charles 

Sartorius, Dr. Charles 

CENTRAL AMERICA. 

Riotte, C. N 

White, WUliam T., M. D. 



WEST I.NDIES. 



United States Consul. 
Julien, Alexis A 



Royal Engineers, (in the 
Royal Gazette.) 



SOUTH AMERICA. 

Hering, C. T 



Station. 



Wolfville, Nova Scotia 

Stanbridge, Canada East 

Fort Kae, Great Slave Lake 

Rigolet, Labrador 

Colonial BuUding, St. John's, New- 
foundland. 

King'sCollege, Windsor, Nova Scotia 

Fort McPherson, Hudson's Bay Ter- 
ritory. 

Montreal, Canada East 

Fort Anderson 

Fort George 

Toronto, Canada West 

St. John, New Brunswick 

Niagara, Canada West 

Michipicoton, Canada West 

Kenogumiss'ee, Hudson's Bay Terri- 
tory. 



San Juan Bautista, Tabasco . 
Mirador, Vera Cruz 



San Jos6, Costa Rica . 
Aspinwall 



Turk's Island . . . 
Sombrero Island . 



Centre Signal Station, Saint George's 



Government Plantation Rustenberg, 
colony of Surinam, Dutch Guiana. 



45 06 
45 08 



47 35 



44 59 
68 00 



45 30 
68 30 



43 09 
47 56 
49 50 



17 47 
19 15 



9 54 
9 21 



18 55 



64 25 
73 00 



53 40 



64 07 
135 00 



73 36 
127 30 



79 21 



79 20 
85 06 
84 00 



92 36 
96 25 



84 06 
79 54 



63 27 



Feet. 
95 



200 
200 



57 



tl08 
'"270 

'i.'ooo 



40 
3,600 



3,772 



A 

T 

T 

B. T . . . 
B. T. R. 



T... 
A .. 
B.T. 
A .. 
B.T. 
T... 



T.R , 
A .. , 



* A aignifles Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrom- 
ctcr, and Ruin Gauge. 
B signiiies Barometer. 
T Bignifles Thermometer. 



P signifies Psychrometer. 
R Bir;nilics Rain Gauge. 
N signiiies no instrument, 
t Above Lake Ontario. 



S.> 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorolGgical stations and observers, Sfc. — Contiuued. 



65 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



County. 



CALIFORNIA. 

Ayres, W. O., M. D 

Belcher, W. C 

Croft, Charles 

Duukum, Mrs. Elizab'h S. 
Logan, Thomas M., M. D. . 
Parkinson, David F 



Smith, M. D. 



COLORADO. 
Luttrcll, James 



COSSECTICUT. 



Case, Jarvis 

Hunt, Rev. Daniel . . . 
Johnston, Prof. John . 
Learned, D wight W-- 
Leavenworth, D. C-.. 
Rockwell, Charlotte-. 
Yeomaus, William H . 

DAKOTA. 
Williams, Herbert G.. 



DELAWARE. 
Hedges, Urban D.,M.D-.. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

aiacKee, Rev. C. B 

Smithsonian Institution . . . 

FLORIDA. 
Dennis, 'William C 



Collins, W. O 

liosseau, M. C 



ILLINOIS. 



Aldrich, Verry 

Babcock, E 

Bacon, E. E 

Baker, Nathan T 

Ballon, X. E., M. D 

Baudelicr, AdolphusF.,jr. 

Blanchard, Orestes A 

Boettuer, Giistav A 

Breiidel, Frederick, M. D . . 

Brookes, Samuel 

Byrne, Arthur M 

Dudley, Timothy 

Grant, John \ 

Grant, Miss Ellen 5 

GrifHng. Henry 

Little, J. Thomas 

Livingston. Prof. Win 

Mead. S. B.. M. D 

Merwin, Mrs. Emily H 

Riblot, J. H 

Rogers, O. P. and J. S 

Tolman, James W 



San Francisco - . . 

Marysville 

Sacramento 

Honcut 

Sacramento ..... 
Presidio of San 

Francisco. 
Spanish Kanche . . 



Montgomery 



Canton 

Pomfret 

Middletown . 
Plymouth . . . 
Xew Haven . 
Colebrook . . . 
Columbia 



Yankton . 



Wilmington 



Georgetown . 
Washington . 



Key West . 



Fort Laramie. 
Fort Benton.. 



INDIA.NA. 



Tiskilwa 

Riley 

Willow Creek . 

Belleville 

Sandwich 

Highland 

Elmira 

Chicago 

Pt-oria 

Chicago 

Chicago 

Jacksonville .. 

Manchester 

Hazel Dell 

Dixon 

Galesburg 

Augusta 

Ottawa 

Pekin 

Alarengo 

Winnebago Di 
pot. 



Anderson, Henry H Rockville Parke 

Burroughs, Reuben South Bend St. Joseph. 



San Francisco . 

Yuba 

Sacramento . . . 

Yuba 

Sacramento . . . 
San Francisco . 



Plumas. 



Park 



Hartford 

Windham ... 
Middlesex ... 
Litchfield . .. 
New Haven . 
Litchfield..., 
ToUand 



New Castle. 



Washington . 
Washington . 



Bureau. .. 
McHeury. 

Lee 

St. Clair . 
De Kalb . 
Madison . 

Stark 

Cook 

Peoria 

CJok 

Cook 

Morgan . . 

Scott 



Cumberland . 

Lee 

Knox 

Hancock 

La Salle 

Tazewell . .. 
McHenry . .. 
W^innebago . 



37 48 
39 29 

38 31 

39 25 

38 35 
37 48 

39 56 



122 27 
121 .30 
121 29 
121 30 

121 28 

122 22 

120 40 



39 00 106 00 



42 00 
41 52 
41 32 
41 40 

41 18 

42 00 
41 40 



38 54 
38 53 



42 10 
47 49 



41 15 

42 11 
41 45 
38 29 
41 31 

38 45 
41 12 

41 54 

40 43 

42 00 

41 57 

39 30 

39 33 

39 00 
41 45 



40 10 

41 20 
40 36 

42 14 
42 17 



36 00 
41 39 



73 00 
72 23 

72 39 

73 03 

72 56 

73 06 
72 42 



97 31 



77 03 
77 01 



81 28 



104 47 
110 36 



89 66 

88 20 

86 ."se 

90 06 

88 30 

89 46 

90 15 
89 40 

89 30 

87 30 

87 38 
GO 06 

90 34 

88 00 

89 31 



91 00 

88 47 

89 45 

88 38 

89 12 



87 00 
86 71 



5s 



' Above low-water mark at Quincy. 



Feet. 

130 

80 

65 



41 



13, 000 



700 
587 
175 



4,472 

2,780 



550 
760 
1,040 
600 
605 



591 
676 



*203 
500 



842 
900 



1,100 
600 



A 

B.T. R. 
T.R ... 

T 

A 

A 



B. T. R. 



T.R 
A .. 
A .. 
T ... 
B.T. 
T... 
T... 



T.R 



T.R 
A .. 



N 

T.R .. 

N 

B.T.. 
T. R . . 
B. T. P 
T. R . . 
B. T.. 
A .. .. 

T 

B. T .. 
T.R .. 



N 

T 

A .. .. 
T. P. R 
T. R .. 
B. T. R 
B. T. R 
B. T. R 



T.R 

T. R . . . . 



12 



12 

12 

5 

1 

12 

12 

3 

1 

12 

7 

3 

12 

12 

12 

Jl 
11 
10 
12 
5 
12 



QG APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

List of meteorological stations and observers, Sfc. — Continued. 



Kamo of observer. 



INDIANA — Continued. 



Chappellsmith, John. 
Crozier, Dr. E. S 



Dawson, William ... 

Dayton, James II 

Huiiios, John 

Jlelni, Thomas IJ 

I.arrnbce, William II. 

iMiiy liew, Uoyal 

Hainlio, Eihvaril Ti 

KpilUing, Thomas K .. 
Rice, E. J 

IOWA. 



Brings, E. L 

Chamberlain. John 

Dunwoody, Wm. P ; 

Collin, Prof. Alonzo 

Deering:, J). S 

Doyle. L. 11 

Pafnsvvortb, P. J., M. D. 

Foster, .Suel 

Gidley, Isaac M 

Horr, Asa, JI. D 

SloConncl, Townseiid. 



McCoy, Franklin, M. D. ) 
McCoy, JliiiS Elizabeth.. J 

McCrcady, Daniel 

Marshall, (^f n ;:ory 

Jlillard, Andrew J 

Parvin, Prof. Theodore S. . 

Sheldon, Daniel 

Townsend, Nathan 

Walton, Josiah P 

Wheaion, Alex. Camp 

KANSAS. 



Browne, O. H 

Drew,F.P.,M.D.,lT. S.A. 

Fuller, Arthur N 

Goodnow, Isaac T 

Denison, Henry Jj 

Sonle, W. L. (V 



KENTUCKY. 

Matthews, Jos. McD.,D. D 

Woodniff, E. N 

Youug, Mrs. Lawrence . . 

MAINE. 

Brackctt, Geo. Emerson . . 

Dana, Wm. D 

Gardiner, U. 11 

Guptill, G. W 

Moore, Asa P 

Parker, J. D 



Pitman, Edwin J 

Pitman, Mark 

Reynolds, Lauriston 

Van Blarcom, James 

West, iSilas 

Wilbur, Benj. P 5 

MARYLAND. 



Bacr, Miss Harriott M. . . 
Dutton, Prof. J. Rusael. 
Goodman, William R... 



Station. 



New Harmony.. 

New Albany 

Cadiz 

Spieeland 

South Bend 

llichmond 

Logansport - . .. 

Greeneastle 

Indianapolis 

Richmonil 

Newcastle 

Muneio 



County. 



Mount Pleasant. 

Davenport 

Mount Vernon. . 
Independence — 

Waterloo 

Lyons 

Mutcatine 

Bangor 

Dubuque 

Pleasant Plain.. 

Algona 

Fort Madison... 
Vernon ,Spring8. 

Sioux City 

Iowa City 

Forestvillo 

Iowa Falls 

Muscatine 

Independence 



Ridgeway . 
Fort Riley. 
Lawrence . 

Manhattan . 

Lawrence . 



Nicholasville . . . . 
LouiBville .... 
Louisville .... 



Belfast 

North Perry 

Gardiner 

Cornishvillc 

Lisbon 

Steuben 

Williamsburg.. ) 

Sebec > 

Foxcroft 

East Wilson 

Vassalboro' . 

Cornish 

Dexter 

West WatcrvUle, 



Sykesvillo . . . , 
Chestertown .. 
Annapolis ..... 



Posey 

Floyd 

Henry 

Henry 

St. Joseph. 
Way no . . . 

Cas^s 

Putnam . . . 

Marion 

Wayne . . . 

Ht luy 

Delaware . 



Henry . 

Scott . . 



Linn 

Buchanan . . . 
Black liawk. 

Clinton 

Muscatine . . . 

Marshall 

Dubuque . .. 
Jefferson 

Kossuth 

Loo 

Howard 

Woodbury . . 

Johnson 

Delaware . . . 

Hardin 

Muscatine . . . 
Buchanan . . . 



Osage . 



Douglas 
Riley . . . 
Douglas . 



Jessamine 
Jefferson . . 
Jefferson . , 



Waldo 

Washington . . 
Kennebec . . . . 
York 

Androscoggin 
Washington . . 

Piscataquis . . 

Piscataquis . . . 

Franklin 

Kennebec . . . . 

York 

Penobscot 

Kennebec 



Carroll 

Kent 

Anne Arundel. 



41 00 

41 30 

42 00 



42 30 
41 50 

41 2(; 

42 00 

42 30 

41 07 

43 01 

40 37 
43 20 

42 33 

41 37 

42 40 
42 32 

41 25 

42 25 



39 02 
39 00 
^38 53 

'39 13 

38 58 



37 58 

38 22 
38 07 



44 23 

45 00 
44 41 

43 40 

44 00 
44 41 



45 12 
44 44 
44 28 

43 40 

44 55 



39 23 
39 12 
38 59 



87 50 
85 29 
85 20 

85 18 
8C 07 

84 59 
80 13 

86 47 

85 CO 

84 47 
8.-) 27 

85 20 



91 38 

90 40 

91 00 



92 31 
90 10 

92 00 

93 00 
90 52 

94 51 



95 11 

96 30 

95 13 

96 45 
95 13 



84 18 

85 38 
85 24 



60 08 
67 06 

69 46 

70 44 
70 04 
67 50 



69 13 

70 17 

69 47 

70 44 
69 32 



76 57 

75 59 

76 29 



Feet. 
320 



1,060 

"'eoo' 



600 
800 

698 

800 

1,000 



666 
9.50 



94 04 


1,500 


91 26 




92 12 




96 27 


1,258 




621 


91 50 




93 20 




92 02 


586 


92 00 





850 

1, 300 

970 

1,000 

970 



940 



570 



100 
90 

8r.o 

130 
50 



784 
700 



700 
"26' 



T.R 
R... 



T. R .. 
A .. .. 
B. T. li 
T. R . . 
T. R . . 
A .. .. 



B. T .. 

N 

B. T .. 
T. R . . 
T.R .. 
T. R . . 



T. P. R. 

A 

A 



- 


a 


— 


A 






IJ. 


i'. 


P.. 


T. 


R 




B. 


T. 


R.. 


T. 


R 




B. 


T 




T. 


R 




N 






T. 


R 




T. 


P. 


R.. 


B. 


T 




B. 


T. 


R.. 


T. 


R 




A 






T 






T 






N 






T 


R 




N 






T 


R 




A 






T 


R 




T 






T 


R 




B. 


T. 


R.. 


T 


U 




A 






T 






T 


R 




A 






T 


it 




N 






T 


T? 





METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological stations and observers, Sfc. — Continued. 



67 



Name of observer. 



MARYLA.ND — Continued. 



Hanshew. Henry E 

Lowndes, Benjamin O 

Stephenson, Rev. James. 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Astronomical Observatory 

Bacon, William 

Barrows, N., M. U 

Caldwell, John H 

Davis, lie V. Emerson 

Dewhurst, Rev. Eli 

Fallon, John 

^Ietcalt•,J()hnGeo.,M. D.. 
Prentiss, Henry C, M. D. 

Rodman, Samuel 

tJnoll, Prof. E. .S 

MICHIGAN. 

Blaker, Dr. G. H ? 

Bacon, Prank M 5 

Kedzie, Prof. R. C 

Scliettcrly, Henry R 

Streng, L. H 

Van Orden, Wm. , jr 

Whelpley, Miss Florence E. 
Woodard, C. S 

MINNESOTA. 

Grave, Mary A 

Kelly, O. H 

Paterson, Rev. A. B., D. D 

Smith, Henry L 

Wieland, C 

MISSOURI. 

Christian, John 

Engelmann, George, Jl. D. 

Fendler, Augustus 

Muir, Wm 

Myers, J. H 

Ray, George P 

Tidsweil, Miss Mary Alice. 

NEBRASKA. 

Bowen, Miss Anna M. J. . . 

Evans, John 

Hamilton, Rev. Wm 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Brown, Branch 

Chase, Arthur 

French, Isaac S., M. D 

Nason, Rev. Ellas 

Udell, Fletcher 

Pitman, Charles H 

Smith, Pvul'ua 

Whiting, Robert C 

NEW JERSEY. 

Beans, Thomas J 

Brooks, Wm 

Cooke, Robert L 

Deacon, John C 

Rhees, Morgan J., M. D . . . 

Stokes, Howard A 

Thompson, George W 

Whitehead, W. A 



Frederick . . 
Bladeuaburg 
St. Inigoes.. 



Williamstown 

Richmond 

Sandwich . . . . 
Topstield . ... 

Westlield 

Baldwinsvillc. 

Lawrence 

Meudon 

Worcester 

Kew Bedford. 
Amherst 

Marquette - . . . 

Lansing 

Northport 

Holland 

Clifton 

Monroe 

Ypsilanti 

Tamarack 

Itasca 

St. Paul 

Forest City... 
Beaver Bay . . 



Harrigonville 

St. Louis 

St. Louis 

LaborviUe . . 
Kirksville . .. 

Canton 

Warrenton . . 



Elkhorn City 

Fonteuelle 

Bellevue 

Stratford 

Claremont 

Loudon Ridge . . 

Exeter 

Shelburne 

North Barnstead 
Xorth Littleton . 
Littleton 

Progress 

Pa.'isaic Valley. . 

Bloomfield 

Burlington 

Mount Holly 

Long Branch . . . 
New Brunswick. 
Newark 



County. 



Frederick 

Prince George's. 
St. Mary's 



Berkshire . 
Berkshire . 
Barnstable . 

Essex 

Hampden . 
Worcester . 

Essex 

Worcester . 
Worcester . 

Bristol 

Hampshire 



Marquette . . 

Ingham 

Leelenaw . . 
Ottawa . . . . 
Keweenaw . 
Monroe . . . . 
Washtenaw 



Hennepin . 

Anoka 

Ramsey . . 
Bleeker . . . 
Lake 



Cass 

St. Louis. 
St. Louis. 
St. Louis . 

Adair 

Lev/is 

Warren .. 



Douglas 

Washington 
Sarpy 



Coos 

Sullivan .. .. 
Merrimack . . 
Rockingham. 

Coos 

Belknap 

Grafton 

Grafton 



Burlington . 

Passaic 

Essex 

Burlington . 
Burlington . 
Monmouth . 
Middlesex . 
Essex 



39 24 

38 57 
38 10 



42 43 
42 23 

41 45 



42 06 
42 37 
42 42 
42 06 
42 16 

41 39 

42 22 



46 33 

42 42 
45 23 
42 00 

47 00 

41 56 

42 15 



45 15 

44 57 

45 13 
47 17 



38 37 
38 37 
38 33 
40 38 
40 12 
38 37 



41 22 
41 31 

41 08 



44 08 
43 22 

43 20 

42 58 

44 23 

43 38 

44 20 
44 20 



77 26 
76 58 
76 41 



73 13 
73 20 
70 30 



72 48 
72 05 
71 11 
71 34 

71 48 
70 56 

72 34 



87 33 

84 35 

85 24 

86 00 

88 00 
83 23 
83 47 



93 28 

93 05 

94 28 
91 18 



90 15 
90 16 

90 43 
92 50 

91 37 
91 16 



96 12 
96 45 
95 50 



71 34 

72 21 
71 25 

70 55 

71 06 
71 27 

71 50 

72 00 



40 20 
40 30 
40 45 



74 06 

75 31 
74 10 



112 i T. R 

45 A .. 



1, 190 



180 
847 
133 



5^8 

90 

207 



680 
800 
590 
751 



856 
800 



481 
470 



1,000 



1,000 
1,000 



1,000 
539 
475 
125 
700 



P.. T. R. 
T. R . . . 
T. R . . . 
T. R . . . 

A 

U. T. R. 

A 

B. T. R. 

A 

A 

A 



A .. 
R... 
T. R 
T ... 
T. R 
A .. 



T 

T 

T. R . . 
T. R . . 
B. T . . 



T... 
A .. 
B. T. 
T... 

N... 
T ... 
T... 



T 

T. R . . 
T. R . . 



T.R .. 
B. T. R 
T. R . . 
B. T . . 
B. T . . 

T 

B. T . . 
T. li . . 



B. T . . . 
T. R . . . 

A 

T 

B. T . . . 
T. R . . . 

T 

B. T. R. 



68 



APPENDIX TO THE KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY 



List of meteorological stations and observers, Sfc. — Coutiuued. 



Name of observer. 



NEW YORK. 

Ardcn, Thos. B 

Harrows, Storrs 

Bartlett, Eras^tus U 

IJeaucliBiiip, Wiu. M 

Bowmau, Johu 

Cowiug, Philo 

Dill, John B 

Douuing, AVilliam II 

Dewey, Prof. Chester... ^ 

Krcyer, Carl T 3 

Gregorv, S. O 

GiUBt, "W. E 

Hcimstreet, John W 

Holmes, Dr. E. S 

House, John C 

Howell, Kobert 

Ingalsbe, Greenville M 

Mack, Rev. Eli T 

JMcJIore, P. A 

Jlaleom, \Vm. .Scbuvler. . . 

Mathews, M. M., M. D 

Morris. Prof. Orau W 

Paiue, H. M., M. D 

Pratt, Daniel J 

Koo, Kev. San. W., M. D. 

Hussell, Cyrus H 

Spoouer, Dr. Stillman 

Swift, Lewis 

^\■akeley, Chas. C, liuth- 
crford's Observatory. 

Warren, James II 

While, Aaron 

Willis, Oliver R 

OHIO. 

Abcll.B.F 

Adams, D. P 

Atkins, Kev. L. S 

Beuner, Josiah F 

Clark, Win. P 

Colbrunn, Edward 

Cotton, D. B., M. D 

Crane, George W 

Dille, Israel 

Dole, J. G I 

Griffing, C. S. S > 

Engelbrocht, Lud 

l''ra>er, James 

llammitt, John W 

Harper, George W 

Haywood, Prof. John .. < 

Hill, F. G 

Huntington, George C 

Hvde, Gustavus A } 

Hyde, Mrs j 

lagraui, John, M. D 

Jerome, A. E 

King. Mrs. Ardelia C 

Lar.-h, Thomas J 

MeClung, Charles L 

Jlc.Uillan, .Smith B 

Mathews, Joseph McD 

Newton, Rev. Alfred 

IVck, Wm. R., M. D 

Peirce, Warren 

Phillips, K. C. and J. II... 

Samins, Dr. C. C 

Sohauber, Hubert A 

Smith, C.H.,M.D 

Thonn)3on, Rev. David... 



Station. 



Garrison's 

South Trenton. . . 

Vermilliofl 

Skaneateles 

Baldwins ville 

Seneca Falls 

Auburn 

Fishkill Lauding. 

Rochester 



Theresa 

Ogdensburg 

Troy 

Wilson 

Waterford 

Nichols 

South Hartford . 

Flatbush 

Fort Ann 

Os^yego 

Rochester 

New York 

Clinton 

Fredonia 

Jamestown 

Gouverneur 

Wampsville 

Marathon 

New York .:... 



Suffern 

Cazenovia .. .. 
White Plains . . 



Welshfield 

Marietta 

Saybrook 

New Lisbon 

Medina 

Cleveland 

Portsmouth 

Bethel 

Newark 

Austiuburg . . . . 

I'ortsmouth 

Little Hocking . 
(;ollege HUl . . . . 

IMncinnati 

Wester ville 

Kingston 

Dallasburg 

Keiley's Island. . 

Cleveland 



Savannah 

New Westfield. 

Bladisou 

Eaton 

'I'roy 

East Fairfield. . 
Hillsborough . . 

Norwalk 

BowliugGreen. 
Garrettsvillo. . . 

Cincinnati 

Hillsborough . . 

Cardington 

Kenton 

Milnersvillo . . . 



County. 



Putnam ... 

Oneida 

Oswego . . . 
Onondaga . 
Onondaga . 

Seneca 

Cayuga . .. 
Dutchess . . 
Monroe . . . 



Jefferson 

St. Lawrence. 
Rensselaer . . . 

Niagara 

Saratoga 

Tioga 

Washington .. 

Kings 

Washington . . 

Oswego 

Monroe 

New York 

Oneida 

Chautauqua . . 
Chautauqua . . 
St. Lawrence. 

Madison 

Cortland 

New York 



Rockland . . 

Madison 

Westchester 



Geauga .... 

Washington 
Ashtabula . . , 
Columbiana 
Medina . . . . , 
Cuyahoga . . . 

Scioto 

Clermont . .. 
Licking 

Ashtabula .. 



Scioto 

Washington . 
Hamilton . .. 
Hamilton . .. 

Franklin 

Ross 

Warren .. .. 
Erie 



Cuyahoga . . 

Ashland .. . 

Hood 

Lake 

Preble 

Miami 

Columbiana . 
Highland . .. 

Huron 

Wood 

Portage .. .. 
Hamilton . . 
Highland . .. 

Morrow 

Hardin 

Guernsey . . 



41 22 
4:5 10 
43 26 
43 00 
43 04 

42 54 

42 55 
41 34 

43 08 



41 30 

42 55 
41 05 



41 23 

.39 25 

41 52 

40 

41 

41 

38 

39 

40 

41 54 



74 02 
74 56 
77 26 
76 30 
76 41 

76 51 
74 28 

74 18 

77 51 

75 48 

75 37 
73 37 

78 56 
73 39 

76 .32 

73 21 

74 02 

73 44 

76 30 

77 51 

74 05 

75 15 

79 24 
79 19 
75 29 

75 50 

76 00 

73 59 

74 31 

75 46 
73 40 



81 12 
61 31 
81 01 

80 45 

81 47 

81 40 

82 50 
84 00 
82 21 

80 52 

82 36 

81 00 
84 26 
84 27 

83 00 

83 00 

84 31 

82 42 

61 40 

82 31 

83 49 
81 00 
74 00 

84 06 
80 44 



82 30 

83 40 
81 10 

84 27 



83 00 

84 41 
81 45 



Feet. 
180 



327 

932 



403 



42 
516 

365 

279 

58 

250 

70 



400 

54 

1, 430 

250 

525 
25 

600 

'i,'454 

'"560 
""41 



1,260 



1,205 
630 
650 
961 

1,255 
665 
523 
555 
825 

816 

537 



800 
*500 



692 
800 
587 

64.3 

1,098 
692 
620 
1,400 
1,103 
1,152 



700 

900 

540 

1.120 



T.R -. 
T. R .. 

T 

B. T - . 

T 

B. T . . 

T 

B. T. R 

B. T. R 

T. R . . 

N 

A .. .. 

T 

A .. .. 

T 

T. R . . 
B. T. R 
T. R . . 
B. T. R 
A .. .. 
A . . . . 
T. P. 11 
B. T. R 
T. R . . 
B. T. R 
T. R . . 
T. R . . 
A .. .. 



T.R 
A .. 

T . . . 



T. R . . . 
T. R . . . 

T 

B. T. R. 

A 

T 

B. T. li. 
T. R . . . 
T ..-■.. . 

B. T. R. 

B. T. R. 

N 

T. R . . . 

A 

A 

A 

N 

B. T. R. 

B.T. R. 

A 

T.R ... 
T. R . . . 

T 

B. T. li. 

A 

A ., ... 

T 

B. T. R- 

T 

B. T. R. 
T.K ... 

N 

B. T . . . 
T 



Above low-water in the Ohio river at Cincinnati. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological stations and observers, 8fc. — Continued. 



69 



Name of observer. 



OHIO — Continued. 

Thompson, Rev. Elias. 
Thompson. Prof. 11. A. 
Trfenibley. J. B.. M. D. 

AVard, Kev. L. F 

Warder, A. A 

WiUiams. Prof. M. G . - 

Wilson, Prof. J. H 

Young, Prof. Chai. A- . 
Elliott, J. C 



OREGO.V. 

Ironside. R. B 

Willis, P. L 

PENNSYLVANU. 

Atwater, H. H , 

Bentley, E. T 

Boyers. W. R 

Bruckart, H. CI 

Biugger, Samuel 

Darlington, Feuelon 

Eggert, John 

Friel, P ^ 

Hance, Ebenezer 

Hcisie V, Dr. John 

Hickok, W. O 

Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R 

Jacobs, Rev. M \ 

Jacobs, II. E 5 

Kirkpatrick, Prof. Jas. A 

Kohler, Edward 

Lyceum, Jefferson Coliege 

Martindale. Isaac C 

Meehun, Thomas \ 

Meehan, J 5 

Muller, Prof. Rudolph 

Ralston, Rev. J. Grier 

Rieksecker, Lucius E 

Savery, Thos. II 

Smith, Wm., D. D 

Swift, Dr. Paul 

Taylor, John 

Walker, Robert L 

Weeks, James A 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Caswell, Prof. Alexis 

Sheldon, H. C 

SOUTH CAKOLI.VA. 

Marsh, M. M., M. D.... ? 
Marsh, Mrs 3 

TE.V.VESSEE. 

Stewart, Prof. Wm. 31 

UTAH. 

Pearce, Harrison 

Phelps, W. W 

VERMONT. 

Buckland, David 

Chickering, Rev. J. W 

Cutting. Hiram A 

ilai-sh. :>I. M., M. D 



Station. 



Croton 

Westcrvillo. 

Toledo 

WelUugton . 
Cincinnati . . 
Urbana . . . . 
College Hill 

Hudson 

Atiburn . . . 
Salem 



Susquehanna De- 
pot. 

Tioga 

Blairsville 

Silver Spring 

Fleming 

Parke rsville 

Berwick 

Shamokin 

Philadelphia .. . 

Morrisville 

Harrisburg 

H.arrisburg 

Mount Joy , 

Gettysburg X. . 

Philadelphia .. . 
North Whitehall 
Cannonsbui'g . . . 
Byberry 

Germautown 



Pittsburg 

Norristowri 

Nazareth 

Altoona 

Cannonsburg . . . 
West Haverford. 
Conneilsville .. . 

Moorhead 

Oil City 



Providence . 
Providence . 



Clarksvillo 



St. George 

Salt Lake City 



Brandon . . . 
Springfield . 
Lunenburg . 
Moutpelier . 



County. 



Licking 

Franklin 

Lucas 

Loraine 

Hamilton . . 
Champaign . 
Hamilton . . 

Summit .. . 



Baker . 
Marion 



Susquehanna 



Tioga 

ludiaua 

Lancaster 

Centre 

Chester 

Columbia 

Northumberland 
Philadelphia .. . 

Bucks 

Dauphin 

Dauphin 

Lancaster 

Adams 



Philadelphia . 

Lehigh 

Washington . . 
Philadelphia . 

Philadelphia . 

Alleghany . . . 
Montgomery . 
Northampton . 

Blair 

Washington . . 
Delaware . . . . 

Fayette 

Alleghany .. . 



Providence . 
Providence . 



Beaufort . 



Montgomery. 



Washington 
Salt Lake . . . 



Rutland . . . . 
Windsor . . . . 

Essex 

Washington . 



40 13 

40 04 

41 .19 
41 08 

39 08 

40 CG 
39 19 

41 15 



44 37 
44 56 



40 31 

40 05 

40 55 

39 54 

41 05 

40 45 

39 57 

40 12 
40 1(1 
40 20 
40 08 

39 49 

39 57 

40 40 
40 17 
40 05 



40 30 
40 08 
40 43 
40 35 
40 16 
40 00 
40 00 



41 49 
41 50 



32 20 



36 28 



37 00 
40 45 



82 38 

83 00 

82 32 
81 13 

84 35 

83 43 

84 25 

81 24 



74 43 

76 45 

77 53 

75 37 

76 15 
76 30 

75 50 

74 48 
70 15 

76 50 
70 30 

77 15 

75 10 
75 26 
80 10 
75 00 



80 09 
75 19 
75 21 

78 22 
80 10 
75 21 

79 36 



n 25 
:i 25 



114 00 
111 26 



43 45 


73 00 


43 18 


72 33 


44 28 


71 41 


44 17 


72 36 



Feet. 



604 
875 
800 
1,015 
800 

1,137 



120 



1,010 



780 
218 
583 
700 
50 
30 



50 
250 
9.36 

70 



937 
153 
530 
1,178 
936 
400 



3U0 

1, 124 

540 



T. R . . . 

A 

B.T. R. 

A 

T. R ... 
B.T. R. 
B. T. R. 

B. T. R.. 



T 

B. T. R. 



T. R . . . 

T 

T. R . . . 

T 

T. R . . . 
T. R . . . 

A 

T. R . . . 
T. R . . . 
B. T. R. 

A 

A 

A 



B.T. R. 

A 

T 

A 

T. R . . . 



B. T. R. 

A 

T 

T 

B. T. R. 
T. R . . . 

T 

T 

T 



A 

B. T. R. 



T. R 
A -. 



T. R 
T. R 
A .. 
B.T. 



70 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



List of meteorological stations and observers, SfC. — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



VERMONT — Continued. 

Mead, Stephen O 

Paddock, Janiea A 

Parker, Joseph 

Petty, McK 

Pollard, T. F 

Tobey, James K 

WASHINGTON. 

Swan, James G 

WISCONSIN. 

Armstrong, .S 

Curtis, W. W 

Ellis, Edwin, M. D 

Gridley, Ilev. John 

Kelloy, Charles W 

Lapliain, Incr'se A., LL.D 

Lups, Jacob 

Mann, William 

BlathcwK, George 

Mead, H. C 

Porter, Henry D 

Sterling, Prof. John W. . . 

AVhitiug, Wm. H 

Winkler, Carl, M. D 

Woods, William 



Station. 



Rutland 

Craftsbury 

M'est llupert . . . 

Burlington 

Brooklield 

Calais 



Neeah Bay , 



Waterford 

Rocky Run 

Odanah 

Kenosha 

Delafield 

Milwaukee- 

Manitowoc 

Superior 

Brighton 

Waupaca 

Beloit 

Madison 

Geneva 

Milwaukee- 

Weyauwega 



County. 



Rutland . . . . 

Orleans 

Bennington . 
Chittenden .. 

Grange 

Washington 



Racine . .. . 
Columbia... 
Ashland .. . 
Kenosha . . . 
Waukesha . 
Mlwaukee-, 
Manitowoc 

Douglas 

Kenosha . . , 
Waupaca . 

Rock 

Dane 

Walworth . 
Milwaukee- 
Waupaca.. 



44 40 

43 15 

44 27 
44 02 
44 22 



28 41 



42 48 

43 26 
46 33 

42 35 

43 06 

43 03 

44 07 
46 46 
42 36 
44 20 

42 30 

43 05 

42 30 

43 03 

44 15 



72 29 

73 11 
73 10 
72 36 
72 09 



88 13 

89 20 

91 00 

87 50 

88 36 
87 59 

87 45 

92 03 

88 03 

89 11 
89 04 
69 25 
89 41 

87 57 

88 50 



1,100 

. 750 

367 



610 
600 
900 
593 

65a 

680 
700 



750 
1,068 



600 
850 



'1' . . . 
T.R 
T... 
A .. 
T.R 
T.R 



T 

T 

T. R . . 
T. R . . 
B. T. R 
B. T . . 
A .. .. 
B. T.. 
T. R . . 

N 

T 

B. T. R 
A .. .. 

T 

B. T. R 
T 



DEATHS OF OBSERVBRS. 

Dr. S. P. Hildreth, Marietta, Ohio, July 24, 1863. 
T. F. Pollard, Brookfield, New Hampshire, August 19, 1863. 
Hon. Robert Hallowell Gardiner, Gardiner, Maine, March 22, 1864. 
David Bucklaud, Brandon, Vermont, July 19, 1864. 



Colleges and other institutions from v}hich meteorological registers were received 
during the year 1863, included in the preceding list. 



Nova Scotia.. 

Canada 

Connecticut . . 
Illinois 

Iowa 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michif^an 

New .Jersey . . 
Now York 



Acadia Collejre , 

King's College , 

Grammar School , 

Magnetic Observatory 

Wcsleyan University , 

Lombard University 

University of Chicago 

Cornell College 

Griswold College 

Iowa State University 

Oak Grove Seminary 

Washington College 

Amherst College 

State Lunatic Hospital 

Williams College 

State Agricultural College 

Freehold Institute 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

Erasmus Hall Academy 

University of Rochester 



Wolfville. 

Windsor. 

Niagara. 

Toronto. 

Middletown. 

Galesburg. 

Chicago. 

Mount Vernon. 

Davenport. 

Iowa City. 

Vassalboro'. 

Chestertown. 

-Aimherst. 

Worcester. 

Williamstown- 

Lansing. 

Freehold. 

New York. 

Flatbush. 

Rochester. 



METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 71 

Colleges, Sfc., from wliich meteorological registers were received, h^. — Continued. 



Ohio Farmers' College 

Halcyon Academy 

Otterbeiu Uuiversity 

Urbaua University 

I Western Reserve College. 

Woodward High School.. 

Oregon Willamette University. — 

Pennsylvania Central High School 

Haverford College 



College Hill. 

Croton. 

Westerville. 

Urbaua. 

Hudson. 

Cincinnati. 

Salem. 

Philadelphia. 

West Haverford. 



Rhode Island Bi own University 

Tennessee Stewart College 

Vermont University of Vermont 

Wisconsin Beloit College 

! Wisconsin University . 



Jt'ff'rsou College 1 Caunousburg. 



Providence. 

Clarksville. 

Burlington. 

Beloit. 

Madison. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REGULAR 

OBSERVATIONS. 

Abbott, Francis. — Abstract of observations made at eight stations in Tas- 
mania, or Van Diemau's Land, during the six months ending June, 1862, for 
the papers and proceedings of the lloyal Society. 

Caswell, Prof. A., D. D. — Summary for the year 1863, and comparison with 
the previous thirty-two years, at Providence, Rhode Ishmd. Printed in the 
Providence Daily Jouruah 

Dabney, Wdliam H. — Temperature of the valley of Orotava, Island of Tene- 
riffe, compared with that of London, Paris, Pan, Nice, Eome, and Madeira. 
Extracted from the pamphlet of the Baron of Belcastel. 

DreiUzer, O. E., (cousul, Bergen, Norway.) — Summary of meteorological 
observation.5 for each month in the year 18G3, kept at the hospital in Bergen. 
The readings of the barometer reduced to inches, and the thermometer to Fah- 
renheit scale, by Mr. Dreutzer. 

Gardiner, R. H. — Printed summary of observations during the year 1863, 
at Gardiner, Maine, and monthly mean temperature and amount of rain for a 
period of twenty-seven years, fi'om 1837 to 1863, inclusive. 

Goddard, C. TF! — Daily observations at Constantinople, from October, 1862, 
to September, 1863, inclvisive. Also a summary for the year 1862. 

Gregory, S. O. — Diagram shov/ing the changes of the wind every day in the 
year 1863, at Theresa, New York. 

Graham, Colonel Jaiucs D. — Register of Avater-level and meteorological ob- 
scryations, made at the following places, under the direction of Captain George G. 
Meade, topographical engineers, until August, 1863, and subsequently under the 
direction of Colonel James D. Graham, corps of engineers, superintendent of 
the survey : 

Sackett's Harbor, New York. — July, 1861. to December, 1863. 

Charlotte, New York. — July, 1861, to December, 1863. 

Fort Niagara, New York. — July, 1861, to December, 1863. 

Buffalo, New York. — June, 1860, to December, 1863. 

Cleveland, Ohio. — June, 1860, to December, 1863. 

Monroe, Michigan. — July, 1861, to December, 1863. 

Detroit, Michigan. — January, 1860, to December, 1863. 

Tawas City, Michigan. — July, 1861, to December, 1863. 

Thunder Bay Island. Michigan. — July, 1861, to November, 1863. 

Sugar Island, Michigan. — November, 1863, to December, 1863. 

Grand Haven, Michigan. — July, 1861, to July, 1863. 

Ontonagon, Michigan. — July, 1861, to December, 1863. 
* Superior, Wisconsin. — June, 1861, to December, 1863. 



72 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Ives, William. — Summary of observations at Buffalo, New York, during the 
year 1S63, newspaper slip. 

Kirhpatrick, Professor James A. — A general abstract of the meteorological ob- 
servations made at Philadelphia during the year 1863, and a comparison with 
those of the last twelve years. Printed sheets from the Journal of the Franklin 
Institute. 

Lake Winjiipisseogce Cotton and Woollen Manufacturing ComjJony, Ncio 
Hampshire. — Amount of rain for each month in 1SG3, at the outlet of Lake 
Winnipisscogce, in the town of Laconia, New Hampshire, and also at Lake 
Village, about four miles south on the same stream of water. 

Lapliam, I. A., LL.D. — Table showing the direction and force of the wind for 
each hour during the month of September, 1863, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
taken from the autographic record made by Burnell's anemograph. Prepared 
for the Commissioner of Agriculture by I. A. Lapham, LL.D. 

Summary of observations at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with a full set of instru- 
ments, during the year 1863. (Printed slip from the Milwaukee Sentinel.) 

Lewis, James, M. D. — Hourly record of the temperature at Mohawk, New 
York, during the year 1863, from the register made by his metallic self-recording 
thermometer ; also, monthly and half-monthly means, and hourly mean for the 
whole year 1863. 

Lippincott, James S. — Meteorological observations made by Benjamin Shep- 
herd near Cxreenwich, Cumberland, New Jersey, from March, 1856, to June, 
1861. Tabulated and reduced by James S. Lippincott, Haddonlield, Camden 
county, New Jersey, for the Smithsonian Institution. 

Logan, Thomas M., M. D. — Monthly summaries of the meteorology and 
necrology of Sacramento, California, reported for the Sacramento Daily Union 
by Thomas M. Logan, M. D., secretary of the Board of Health. 

Contribution to the Physics, Hygiene, and Thermology of the Sacramento 
River, by Thomas M. Logan, M. D. From the Pacific Medical and Surgical 
Journal. 8 pp. 8vo. 

Magneticul Observatory, Toronto, Canada West, (Professor G. T. Kingston, 
M. A., director.) — Mean meteorological results for the year 1862; also, a com- 
parison of the same with a series of preceding years. 

Mayhcw, Royal. — Mean temperature at Indianapolis, Indiana, for the hours 
of sunrise, 7 a. m., 12 m., and 2, 6, and 9 p. m., during each month in the years 
1861, 1862, and 1863 ; also, the amount of rain in each month during the same 
period. 

Morris, Prof Oran W. — Summary of observations for 1863, giving maxi- 
mum, minimum, mean, and range of all the instruments for each month, as kept 
at the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, New York. 

Murdoch, G. — Appendix to Agricultural Report, being hints on meteorology, 
with summaries of observations made at Saint John, New Brunswick, iu the 
years 1851 to 1862, inclusive, by Gr. Murdock, superintendent of water- works 
at St. John. 8vo. 34 pages. 

Nason, Rev. Elias. — Record of events in Exeter, New Hampshire, during 
the year 1863, containing notices of the weather. No. 3, by the Rev. Elias 
Nason. 12mo. 24 pages. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture. — Fifteenth Annual Report of the board 
to the general assembly of Ohio for the year 1860. Contains articles on the 
influence of forests upon soil, climate, rain, and winds. P. 255 to 274. 

Report for 1861. '-The atmospheric conditions, showing the value of ba- 
rometers for agricultural purposes," by C. A. Richard, of Columbus, Ohio. P. 
234 to 275. 

Osscrvatorio del Collegio Romano. — Bullctino Mcteorologico del' Ossorvatorio 
del Collegio Romano con corrispondenza c blbliografiaper 1' avanzamento delia 
fisica terrestre. Published at Rome twice a month, beginning March, 1862. 



METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 73 

Paine, H. M., M. D — Summary of observations at Clinton, New York, for 
1862 and 1863, with a full set of instruments, giving the monthly and annual 
means, maxima, and minina. 

Pafcrson, Rev. A. B — Meteorological notes for December, 1863, at St. 
Paul, ^[innesota, with a comparison with the previous four years. (Newspaper.) 

Riotte, C. X. — Printed summary of observations made at seven stations in 
Costa Rica in the year 1863. 

Sartorius. Charles. — Summary for the year 1863, with full set of instru- 
ments, at Mirador, Mexico. 

Secc/ti, P. Angela. — Alcune riclierche meteorogiche sulle tempeste occorse nel 
lS59-'60 memoria del P. Angelo Secchi. Estratta dagli Atti della accadomi 
de' Nuovi Lincei Sessione III, dell' Anno XIII, del 5 febbraro 1860. Rome. 
1860. 28 pp. quarto. 

State Department. — Statistical i*eport on the weather and health of Fvankfort- 
on-the-Main during the year 1863, by William W. Murphy, consul. 

Vaughan, Captain D. — Meteorological Journal and Report relative to the cur- 
rents, climate, and navigation of that portion of the lower St. Lawrence forming 
the Strait of Belle-Isle. Second edition. Compiled by Captain D. Vanghan, 
Quebec. 8vo. 62 pp. 

Whitehead, W. A. — Summary of observations dui-ing the year 1863 at 
Newark, New Jersey. Printed slip from Newark Daily Advertiser. Also, an 
article on the " Climate of Newark," being an examination and comparison of 
the observations made there during the last twenty years. 

Wislizenus, A., M. D. — Monthly and yearly mean of positive atmospheric 
electricity, of temperature, and of relative humidity, in 1861, 1862, and 1863, 
at St. Louis, Missouri, based upon daily observations at 6, 9, 12, 3, 6, and 
9 o'clock. Published in the St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal. Vol. I, 
No. 1. ■ . 



KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Regents the 
following report of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution 
during the year 18G3, with estimates for the year 1864: 

General Statement. 

RECEIPTS. 

The whole amount of the Smithson bequest deposited in the 
treasury of the United States is $515,169, from which an 
annual income at 6 per cent, is derived of $30, 910 14 

The extra fund of unexpended income is invested as follows, viz : 

In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent, bonds, yielding (less United States 

tax) 3, 749 50 

In 853,500 Virginia 6 per cent, bonds. 

In $12,000 Tennessee 6 per cent, bonds. 

In $500 Georgia 6 per cent, bonds. 

In $100 Washington city 6 per bonds, yielding 6 00 



Total income 34, 665 64 

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, January, 1863 29, 509 61 



Total receipts .■ 64, 17a 



EXPENDITURES. 



For building, furniture, and fixtures $2, 1 1 1 78 

For general expenses 11, 688 69 

For publications, researches, and lectures 10, 761 65 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 7, 259 23 



31,821 35 



Balance in the haud.^ of the treasurer, January, 1864 32, 353 90 



STATEMENT IN DETAIL OF THE EXPENDITURES OF 1863. 

Building incidentals $1 

Furniture and fixtures 

Meetings of the Board of Regents 

Ijighting 

Heating 

Postage 

Transportation, general 

Exchanges 1, 357 76 

Stationery 486 09 



$1 


598 


79 




512 


99 




104 


50 




343 


71 


1 


090 


75 




421 


46 




374 


05 



111 78 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 75 

General printing $3 50 

Apparatus 531 98 

Laboratory 129 59 

Incidentals, general 584 65 

Extra clerk -hire 371 65 

Salaries, secretary 3, 500 00 

Salaries, chief clerk, bookkeeper, laborers, &c 2, 389 00 



Smithsonian contributions 2, 545 48 

Smithsonian reports 583 85 

Smithsonian miscellaneous collections 3, 535 88 

Smithsonian and other publications 441 15 

Meteorology 2, 410 97 

Researches and investigations 150 00 

Lectures 1, 094 32 



$11,G88 69 



Cost of books and binding 1, 844 65 

Pay of assistants in library 1, 100 00 

Transportation for library 290 35 

Incidentals for library 24 15 

Museum, salary of assistant secretary 2, 000 00 

Transportation for museum 695 29 

Incidentals for museum 395 40 

Explorations for museum 762 39 

Gallery of art 147 00 



10,761 65 



7,259 23 
$31,821 35 

The whole income during the year 1863 was §34,665 64, corresponding with 
the estimate in the report for 1862. The expenditures during the year 1863 
were S3 1,821 31, leaving $2,844 33 to be added to the balance in the hands of 
the treasurer at the beginning of the year. 

The amount of bills outstanding will not exceed $2,000. 

The foregoing statement is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian funds irre- 
spective of credits and payments made in behalf of other parties. The Institu- 
tion has during the year paid several bills for work done and articles purchased 
on account of the government, part of which has been refunded and credited to 
the appropriation from which the expenditure Avas originally made. Those 
which have been refunded are as follows : $476 87 from the Surgeon General's 
office for books purchased in Europe through the agency of the Institution ; 
and $37 from the Xaval Observatory for transportation. In addition to these, 
several expenditures have been made on account of the Light-house Board for 
pliotometrical apparatus, and experiments in the laboratory, which have not yet 
been refunded. 

Messrs. Hice & Kendall, of Boston, have also refunded $93 80 for paper pur- 
chased (if th(-'m remaining in their hands not used. 

The appropriations from Congress for the preservation of the collections and 
the distribution of the duplicate specimens of the exploring and surveying 
expeditions of the government have been expended, as heretofore, under the 
diieclion of the Secretary of the Interior in assisting to pay the expenses of 
assistants in the museum, and the cost of arranging, labelling, and preserving 
I he specimens. The sums thus received have been credited to the museum, and 
have scr^'ed to diminish the apparent amount of expenditures for that object. 



76 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The estimated expenditures for 1863 were as follows : 

■JPor building, fnruiture, and fixtures -S2, 000 

For general expenses 10, 500 

For publications, researches, and lectures 10, 500 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 9, 000 

Total $32, 000 



The actual expenditure on the building is very nearly the same as the amount 
appropriated. 

For genei'al expenses the amount is larger than the estimate, and this is due 
to the increased cost of materials. 

For publications, Ike, the actual expenditure is nearly the same as the 
estimate. 

For library, museum, and gallery of art, the expenditure is nearly tlwee 
thousand dollars less than the estimate, but this is on account of the expend- 
iture on the collections of the remainder of an appropriation from Congress for 
the distribution of the specimens. 

For the year 18G 4 the same estimates are recommended as those made for 1863. 
The committee have examined the books and accounts of the Institution for 
the past year, and find them to be correct. 
Respectfully submitted. 

A. D. BACHE, 
EICHARD WALLACE, 

Committee. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 



THE 1] A II D OF REGENTS 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, January 20, 1864. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Kegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual session on the third 
Wednesday of January of each year, the Board met this day in the Regents' 
room, at 10.] o'clock a. m. Present : Hon. S. S. Cox, Hon. J. W. Patterson 
Hon. R. Wallach, General J. G. Totten, and Professor Henry, the Secretary. 

A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Monday, Januar} 
25, at 1\ p. m. 



Monday, Januar ij 2-3, 1864. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents Avas held this day at 1\ o'clock p. m 
Present : Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. W. P. 
Fessenden, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. H.W.Davis, Hon. 
R. Wallach, Mr. William B. Astor, General Joseph G. Totten, Professor A. D. 
Bache, the treasurer Mr. Seaton, and Professor Henry, the Secretary. 

In the absence of the chancellor, Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair. 

The Secretary announced the election, by joint resolution of the Senate and 
House of Representatives, of Professor Agassiz, of Massachusetts, as a Regent 
in place of Mr. Badger, the reappointment by the Speaker of Hon. S. S. Cox, 
of Ohio, and the appointment of Hon. J. W. Patterson, of New Hampshire, 
and Hon. Heniy Winter Davis, of Maryland, as Regents from the House of 
Representatives. 

The general statement of the funds of the Institution and of the receipts and 
expenditures during 1863 was presented by the treasurer. 

The Secretary submitted the annual report of the operations of the Institu- 
tion during the past year, which Avas read in part. 

The Secretary made a statement as to the policy which had been adopted in 
regard to bequests and donations having special conditions attached to them, 



78 rROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

and gave (he reasons for declining to accept a herbarium which had recently 
been bequeathed to the Institution. 

On motion it was 

Resolved, That the action of the Secretary in this case be approved. 

The Secretary called attention to the unexpected delays and embarrassments 
which had occurred in obtaining the remainder of the original bequest of 
Smithson left in England as the principal of an annuity to the mother of the 
nephew of Smithson, and read the correspondence on the subject with the 
attorneys, and also a letter from Hon. C. F. Adams, the American minister to 
England. 

On motion it was 

Rcsolred, That a committee be appointed, consisting of the Secretary, Mr. 
11. W. Davis, and Professor Bache, to confer with the Secretary of State and 
the British minister relative to the action of the English authorities in regard 
to the money due the Smithsonian Institution. 

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, January 27, at 7.J 
o'clock p. m. 



Wednesday, January 27, 1864. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at the Institution at 7 J o'clock 
p. m. Pi-esent : Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. 
G. Davis, Hon. R. Wallach, Mr. William B. Astor, Professor A. D. Bache, and 
the Secretary. 

Mr. 'Hamlin was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

Professor Bache presented the report of the executive committee, which was 
read and approved. 

The Secretary presented the remainder of his annual report, which was read 
and adopted. 

He also presented a series of letters illustrating the correspondence and 
operations of the Institution.* 

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



Tuesday, March 15, 1804. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at lOj o'clock a. m. 
Present : Hon. II. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. S. S. 
Cox, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. R. Wallach, Professor L. Agassiz, Professor 
A. B. Bache, and the Secretary. 

Mr. Hamlin was -called to the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary presented a series of works on natural history, which had 
been prepared and printed at the expense of the Institution, and also the 



* See end of the Proceedings, page 80. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 79 

mamiscripts of several others which had been offered for publication. All of 
these, he stated, had been referred for critical examination to Professor Agassiz, 
who would favor the Board with some remarks in regard to them. 

Professor Agassiz stated that, so far as he had had an opportunity of 
examining the original papers, he considered them worthy of publication ; that 
he would give the whole series of works on natural history, which constitute 
portions of what is called the Miscellaneous Collections, a critical examination, 
and present a report tipon them at a future time. At present he would beg 
leave to make a few remarks on the importance of adopting measures for in- 
creasing the efficiency of the active operations of the Institution by relieving 
them of the expense of the support of the museum, library, and gallery of art. 
Unless this could be done, many valuable contributions to science oifered for 
publication would have to be postponed or refused. He thought that the 
resources of the Institution were inadequate to carry on at the fame time its 
active operations, and maintain a museum, a library, and a gallery of art upon 
the only footing upon which they can truly be creditably supported. Without, 
therefore, making a definite motion, he would submit for future consideration 
the pi'opriety of asking the goveiuimcnt to take charge of the museum, the 
library, and the building now occupied by the Institution, with a view of main- 
taining them on a more extensive scale, and relieving the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion of a large expenditure which, for the advancement and diffusion of science, 
had better hereafter be devoted to the active operations of the Institution. He 
hoped that if such a plan would be carried out, the resources reverting to the 
Institution from the transfer of the museum and library to the government, 
either to form an independent organization or to be carried on hereafter as 
before by the Smithsonian Institution, the active operations of the latter would 
be greatly extended. 

The Seci-etary stated that the suggestions of Professor Agassiz were in 
accordance with the views which had been entertained by the majority of the 
Board of Regents from the first discussion of the organization of the Institu- 
tion ; that the present disposition of the funds was a necessity which was im- 
posed upon the directors by the requii'cments of the law of Congi'ess establish- 
ing the Institution, and that he had always entertained the hope that the sup- 
port of the building and collections would in due time be provided for by the 
general government, and a national museum be founded which would be com- 
mensurate with the intelligence, extent, and resources of the country. 

Professor Bache fully concurred in these remarks, and moved the following 
resolutions, which were adopted : 

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to report to the Board of Regents 
any suggestions for extending the active operations of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and for the separate maintenance of the collections. 

Resolved, That this committee consist of Professor Agassiz, the Secretary 
of the Institution, Mr. Fesscnden, Mr. Patterson, and Mr. Cox. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

LETTERS PRESENTED TO THE BOARD OF REGENTS TO ILLUSTRATE THE 
CORRESPONDENCE AND OPERATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



Communication from Dr. B. A. Govld, on a new discussion and reduction of the 
ohservations of Piazzi of Falertno. 

Cambridge, May IG, 1863. 

Mv Dear Sir : For many years I have been strongly convinced that an 
extremely valuable contribution to astronomical science might be made by a 
new dit'cussion and reduction of tlie observations of Piazzi at Palermo. 

This eminent astronomer, with his assistants, was engaged, during the twenty- 
two years from 1792 to 1813, in observing the positions of the principal lixed 
stars. lie was provided with the best instruments which could be obtained at 
that time, and his observations have been, and must continue to be, our prin- 
cipal and most trustworthy source of information as to the places of between 
seven and eight thousand fixed stars at the beginning of the present century. 
As ucarlv as I can estimate without an actual count, he must have made about 
ninety thousand determinations of right ascension, and from sixty to seventy 
thousand of declination, the original records of which observations still exist. 
From these he constructed his two well-known catalogues — the first in 1803, 
the second in 1814 — containing the mean places for 1800.0 of 7,646 stars. 

His methods of observation, while, of course, far inferior in many respects to 
those of the present day, were the best in use at that period ; and the care and 
fidelity with which they were used seem to have been unsurpassed ; and, al- 
though the reductions upon which the catalogue was based seem to have been 
incommensurate in precision with the observations themselves, still this cata- 
logue has, for the past fifty years, been a standard authority with astronomers, 
and, for a great part of that time, their chief dependence for both the right 
ascensions and declinations of stars. 

The original observations of Piazzi were sent by him for safe keeping to his 
friend Oriani, in Milan, and have been carefully preserved at the Observatory 
of the Brera in that city. In 1845, Professor Littrou, the director of the Impe- 
rial Observatory of Vienna, incited specially, as he says, by Argelander, and 
encouraged by Bessel, Grauss, Schumacher, Struve, &;c., commenced the printing 
of these original observations as part of the series of Annals of the Vienna 
Observatory, and they have thus been for several years accessible to astronomers. 

When organizing the Dudley Observatory in 185G-'58, it formed an integral 
part of my plan, not merely to institute new observations of the heavenly bodies, 
but to carry on such computations, reductions, &c., as might render available 
past observations of this and the last century, which would otherwise be either 
useless or of inferior value to astronomy. Various undertakings of this kind 
were planned, but the first of all to be begun was the re-reduction of the whole 
series of Piazzi's observations, using the best values of the constants of pre- 
cession, aberration, and mutation, and investigating all the instrumental errors 
with care ; and I made considerable progress in arranging the details of the 
computation. After communication Avith Professor Littrou, and an extended 
correspondence with Professor Argelander on the subject, in which this distin- 
guished astronomer gave me many very us(>i'ul suggestions, the whole plan was 
comj)leted, and, but tor the misfortunes which interfered with the usefulness 
of the Dudhiy Observatory before its activity had fairly begun, the new cata- 
logue would doubtless now have been in the hands of astronomers. 

My health and opportunities of labor being now greatly improved, I am 
anxious to resume this work, and write to ask for your influence and aid, as far 
as possible, in furtherance of the plan. Knowing, as you do, the nature of the 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 81 

work proposed, it is almost needless to dwell upon its value to science. The 
one consideration, that Piazzi's obsei'vations must, for long years to come, fur- 
nish the only means of determining the proper motions of more than five 
thousand stars, is of itself sufficient. For the other stars observed by him, 
they constitute a most important element in the determhiatiou. The huge 
number of stars, observed in zones by Lalande, at almost the same period — more 
than fifty thousand — depend for their reduction and value almost solely upon 
Piazzi's results ; and the formation of a new catalogue of the latter will give an 
altogether new value to the results of Lalande. The great mass of independent 
observations thus rendered more accurate can speak for themselves, and it is 
manifest that their usefulness will be far greater than that of the same number 
of new observations made now. 

Unfortunately, Piazzi's observations do not afford all the elements now 
known to be needed for their reduction, and it will doubtless be necessary to 
reduce them differentially, thus greatly increasing the labor. Not merely ques- 
tions -of azimuth, zenith point, and clock correction, but also questions of 
graduation, of irregularity of pivots, and even of refraction, must be discussed, 
thus rendering the undertaking one of no small magnitude ; still it would, I am 
sure, be labor well bestowed, and, as Professor Argelander wrote me in 1857, 
"it would be a grand thing, * * * * and one of the most important 
things that could be done." 

The first process required is the reduction to the mean equinox of 1800.0 of 
all the observations just as they were given by Piazzi. This is a work Avhich 
could be carried on by ordinary computers, and would in itself be of great service, 
even were the discussions of the observations to be omitted. It would consti- 
tute nearly two-thirds of all the labor, and possesses the great advantage that 
whatever is done, be the amount large or small, is immediately available. The 
best estimate that I am able to make gives about $5,000 as the probable cost 
of this reduction, to which from one-quarter to one-third should be added for 
the expense of checking, comparing, and correcting mistakes. Therefore, be- 
fore beginning, I desire to make sure that at least $6,000 will be available for 
the purpose. There is scarcely a limit to the number of computers who could 
be employed at once upon this part of the work. It might easily be accom- 
plished in a single year, or it might be slowly and regularly carried on for a 
long time, the expense being not very different in the two cases. 

This process being completed, the remainder of the work, consisting of various 
investigations, in addition to the discussion of the instrumental corrections, and 
the formation of a catalogue from the observations after all reductions have been 
applied, would, of course, require more deliberate study. It would probably 
occupy at least two years, but 1 think the expense would be decidedly inferior 
to that of the first process. Indeed, I have convinced myself that all the out- 
lays needed for the whole undertaking in all its branches Avoiild not exceed 
$10,000, and that if this sum were now available, the Avork might be completed 
in two years, inasmuch as parts of all the processes could go on simultaneously. 

My sense of the usefulness of this work, and my conviction that astronomers 
everywhere would agree in this opinion, are so strong that I have determined 
to appeal to you for aid, well knowing that your interest and moral support 
will, under any circumstances, not be wanting. It is precisely such an under- 
taking as the plan of the Smithsonian Institution would lead it to encourage ; 
and although I can readily see that the amount needed is larger than the Smith- 
sonian would probably be able to apply at any one time to the furtherance of 
any one science, still I come to you './ith my plan, well assured that you will 
willingly do what you can in its behalf, whether by some gradual appropriation 
year after year, from the Smithsonian funds, in aid of what I have called the 
first process, viz. : The computation of the correction to the mean equinox of 

6 s 



82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

1800.0, or in some still more active way, by enlisting interest and securing aid 
from other sources. 

For several months past I have devoted such time and means as I could to 
the preliminary steps, and, as you are aware, 1 now desire only the means of 
defraying the iudif=pensable outlays, wishing to contribute my own services in 
behalf of the work. 

I am, dear sir, very respectfully and truly youre, 

B. A. GOULD. 
Professor Josrph IIexry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Project of an outline history of public education in the United States, by 

Frederic A. Packard. 

The proposed volume, to contain from 600 to 800 pages royal 8vo, to be 
put up in a cheap form, in the manner of legislative documents, Avith ample 
tables, indexes, &c., for easy reference. If it shall be thought best, the form 
might be changed to two volumes — one embracing the original thirteen States, 
and the other the remaining States and Territories. The plan of the work 
would comprise the following topics : 

I. Of unicersal education, considered as an essential element of free political 
institutions, what should be its character and extent ? 

II. An historical sketch of the laws of the several States on the subject of 
education, and the establishment of public schools, academies, and colleges. In 
this connexion would be given the provisions for education under the colonial 
government, and their inlluence on succeeding legislation. 

III. An abstract or synopsis of all laws now in force in the several States 
touching public education, and of contemporaneous judicial expositions of the 
law, so far as they affect the essential principles of the system. 

IV. A sketch of the present state of public education in the country : 
(a.) Of the division of territory for school purposes, what and how made ? 
(b.) Of the manner of raising money for the support of schools, and the 

amount raised and expended in each decade of years, of the present century. 

(c.) Of the permanent revenue for the support of schools — if derived from 
a fund — when and how "was such fund created, and what is its amount and in- 
vestment ? what portion of the annual school expense is derived from it, and 
what is its cff'ect to stimulate or depress the working of the system ? 

(d.) Of the number and average age of children under instruction, distin- 
guishing the sex ; the number in attendance, in proportion to the whole popu- 
lation, and the^verage time of attendance. 

(e ) Of the mode of employing teachers and determining their qualifications. 

(f.) Of the number of teachers employed, distinguishing the sex ; the compen- 
sation allowed ; the average age of teachers, male and female separate ; and the 
average amount of time employed in daily teaching, making distinct heads 
of summer and winter schools. 

(g.) Of the branches taught in the public schools, and the proportion of time 
devoted to each. 

(h.) Of the preparation and introduction of school-boeks ; character of them 
in early schools — improvements in them ; expense of them, and by whom borne ; 
and the number and variety of them, in the different branches, which are in 
use in the different schools. 

V. Of normal schools, number, when organized, how supported, number of 
pupils, terms and condition of admission ; what proportion of pupils pursue 
teaching for a livelihood, and what proportion of these succeed. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OP REGENTS. 83 

VI. Of scliool-homes, their number, average capacity, manner and means of 
building, and improvements in respect to site, ventilation, heating, furniture, 
out-houses, &c., &c. 

VII. Of school libraries, number of schools supplied with ; how and by whom 
selected ; funds to purchase, and the amount and source of the same ; number 
and character of volumes ; cost, mode of distributing, preserving, and extent of 
circulation. 

VIII. Of the religious elevient in public schools ; if less than formerly, 
why ? To what extent necessary and practicable % 

IX. Of popvlar manners and. customs in the schools ; habits of thinking and 
acting; domestic and social character, and qualifications for citizenship, as they 
are influenced by our systems of public education. 

X. Of p/iys^jca? education, what time appropriated to it ; what facilities and 
encouragements are afforded ; what methods adopted, as drill, gymnasium, or 
athletic garner ; and what part teachers take therein. 

XI. Of infant schools. 

XII. Of Smiday schools. 

XIII. Of colleges and other ptiblic literary tTistitutions, so far as they afford 
aid to, or receive aid from, the public schools. 

XIV. Of the comparative expense and value of public education at different 
periods of our history. 

XV. Of lyceums, mechanics' institutes, evening schools, and other methods of 
adult education, to make other means of ^education available, or to compensate 
for the want or neglect of early advantages. 

XVI. Number of j)ersons of school age that are under instruction, the pro- 
portion of the population that can both read and write ; the qualifications of 
the pupils, upon leaving school, to engage in the active pursuits of life, with a 
superior ^7/iy.??m^, moral, and intellectual character. 

The materials l>3ing thus collected, would be arranged under the title of fefth 
State, respectively, whatever is peculiar in its educational history and statistics 
being placed under specific heads, and what is common to all under general 
heads. 

For example, Maine might occupy the first chapter or section of the volume — 
and we should first refer to Massachusetts for all matter preceding 1820, when 
it ceased to be a province. Then would come a succinct account of all legisla- 
tion on the subject, including an abstract of existing laws; then the origin, 
amount, and mode of distributing any school fund. Next, a bird's-eye \iew of 
the actual condition of the schools, government, discipline, constraction of 
buildings, character of teachers, text-books, and the obvious fruits of the sys- 
tem. Whatever peculiarity there may be in the climate, in the habits and 
pursuits of the people, or in the condition of society, affecting favorably or 
otherwise the interests of education, would find a place in this ^nnexion. 

After completing the circle of States in this way, a condensed chronological, 
historical, and statistical survey of the entire country would be in place, and 
such principles or conclusions as are established by the facts stated and illus- 
trated. 

It will be observed that the plan contemplates the history of each State 
complete in itself and if prepared by an individual selected for the purpose, 
might bear the author's name, like contributions to a biographical dictionary or 
an encyclopaedia. Of course it would serve a valuable local purpose, and if 
properly prepared, would secure a share of public patronage, while the xohole 
volume would furnish highly interesting and important information to the 
country at large and to foreign inquirers. 

When the outline thus sketched is well digested and matured, my purpose 
would be to forward a schedule of the subjects to some qualified patriotic person 
in each State, requesting his co-operation. The great advantages of having the 



84 TROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

work done by a resident of the States, respectively, are the accuracy, fidelity, 
and fulness which would be secured, the facilities for obtaining materials, and 
the authority which it would bear. These considerations might induce one or 
more suitable persons in each State to encounter some personal inconvenience, 
especially as the service is one of vast and permanent importance, and can be 
better done now than at any future period. 



The President of the Chamber of Commerce of Bordemix to the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution at Washington : 

Sir : I am not ignorant that the Institution of which you are the Secretary, 
and which labors with the most praiseworthy zeal to promote the progress of 
the difterent branches of human knowledge, maintains relations of exchange 
with the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts of Bordeaux. 

The Chamber of Commerce, anxious in its turn to co-operate, as far as pos- 
sible, in the realization of the plans which you pursue, feels pleasure in trans- 
mitting to you a copy of its publications. They comprise a collection of its 
proceedings since 1850, the first volume of the catalogue of its library, &c. It 
is hoped that these various publications will find a place in your collections. 
The Chamber has, on its own part, founded a considerable library, which is 
open to the public, and it would be happy if the Smithsonian Institution should 
think proper to send us some of the volumes which it publishes, and which are 
filled with documents of the greatest interest on America, aiid on different ques- 
tions of importance. These works would thus be at the disposal of a consid- 
erable number of studious persons, and they Avould contribute to make the 
services of the Institution of which you are the organ appreciated in all their 
extent in Europe. Be pleased, sir, to accept the assurance of my most dis- 
tinguished consideration. 



Carte del Palasio, Milan, 

October 31, 1862. 
Sir : Through the kindness of your agent, Mr. Bossange, of Paris, we have 
received the Annual Report of the Board of Regents, presented by the great 
and liberal Smithsonian Institution to the Carte del Palasio's Agricultural As- 
sociation, of which we are directors and regents. Reading your valuable re- 
port, we have seen with the greatest satisfaction that the interesting and useful 
results of your^bors have been approved and commended by intelligent men 
everywhere. Whilst expressing, honored sir, our warmest thanks for having 
been deemed worthy by your Institution to participate in the gifts which the 
liberality of the Smithsonian Institution renders to men devoted to science, it 
will be a source of pleasure to us to endeavor to reciprocate your kindness. 
To promote knowledge and facilitate its progress by stimulating men of science 
to undertake general and extensive researches, and to offer the means of con- 
tinuing them, is the most useful service which can be rendered to mankind. 
The very extensive mean.s which your great Institution has at its command, 
the ardor with which your officers and regents began and continue their difficult 
work, are infallible indications of the greatest results which will be produced. 
And we do not doubt that the material and moral progress of individuals, with that 
of science in general, will fully realize the anticipations of the founder, and 
amply recompense the continued labors of the distinguished directors of the 
Smithsonian Institution, 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 85 

As directors of a new institution, which we hope will also soon produce im- 
portant results in agriculture, we shall be content if, in reciprocating your 
kindness, we can also in any way serve the laudable purposes of your Institu- 
tion by presenting the results of our own labors and researches. 

Again expressing oixr thanks, we have the pleasure of sending some of the 
publications relating to our institution, with the hope that they will be placed 
in the Smithsonian library. They are the following: 1. Programme of organi- 
zation of the Carte del Palasio's Agricultural Association. 2. Annual Reports 
of the Association for 1S59-'61. 3. Agricultural Annals, by Dr. Gaetano Can- 
toni, professor of agronomy. 

Your most obedient servants, 

SiG. ANTONIO EESCHIN, Direttore. 
Dr. GAETANO CANTONI, Professor. 



Office -Sup't U. S. Military General Hospitals, 

Mejnjjhis. Tennessee, Septemhcr 5, 1863. 

My Dear Sir : I am in receipt of your letter of the 25th ultimo, by which 
I learn the pleasing intelligence that the " great Tucson meteorite " is in a fair 
way of getting to Washington at last. I am sure you will feel proud of it when 
you see it. I knew the " Carlton specimen" was not ours, as I hatTsent it to 
Hermosilla before I left Arizona. That sent in by General 0. is about 750 
pounds, while ours is about twice that weight. 

The only history I can give you is a vague one, as there is no written record 
of its advent in Tucson. The old inhabitants of that place all agree that it 
was brought there from the Santa Oatarina mountains, which lie to the north 
of Tucson, about midway between the Rio San Pedro and that town. It was 
brought in by the military stationed at the old presidio, where it remained until 
after the withdrawal of the Spanish garrison. It was then taken into town, 
set up on end, and used as a kind of public anvil for the use of the inhabitants. 
The smaller one was used in a blacksmith's forge for similar purposes. In 
1857 I found- the large one lying in one of the by-streets half buried in the earth, 
having evidently been there a considerable time. No person claimed it, so I 
publicly announced that I would take possession of it in behalf of the Smith- 
sonian, and forward it whenever an opportunity offered. Mr. Palatine Robinson, 
near whose hoitse the iron 'was, assisted me in getting it sent to Hermosilla. 
There was some expense attending its hoisting into the truck-wagon that took 
it down to Souora, which I paid to Mr. R. Mr. Ainsa agreed to take it, or 
have it taken, to Guaymas, Sonora, for fifty dollars. 

The people of Tucson all agree that a shower of these meteorites fell in the 
Santa Catarina mountains some two hundred years ago, and I have been told 
that there were plenty of them remaining in the mountains. I never was iu 
the immediate portion of the mountain range where they report the specimens 
are to be found, so I cannot vouch for the correctness of their reports. As the 
country is volcanic almost entirely, I have often thought, from the fact that 
iron ore is abundant iu several of these mountains, that it might have been that 
masses of iron mineral were reduced to the metallic state by volcanic heat. See 
in the case of the femous "Planchas de plata" silver mines, some one hundred 
miles south of the Santa Catarina, where large pieces of pure silver have been 
found reduced to the pure state by fire, which has left everything in its vicinity 
in a state of calcination. One piece weighing 1,500 pounds was found and cut 
in two to allov>r its removal to the city of Mexico by the Spanish authorities, 
I think you will find allusion to those interesting and once rich mines in Brantz 
Mayer. 



86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

I believe I have given you some data about the Tucson meteorites in a 
monogram published by the War Department in 1860 ; Medical Statistics ot" 
United States Army, 1855-'60. 

I wish I could give you full information on this matter. Please let me know 
when you receive it, and be assured that when I go to Washington I will pay 
my respects in person to you and it. 

I am very busy, so you will excuse this hun-ied letter, and believe me 
Yours, very respectfully, 

B. J. D. IRWIN, 
Surgeon United btatcs Army. 



San Francisco, Oal., Jtdy 2, 1863. 

Dear Sir : The aerolite which had remained so long at Alamito, for want 
of a proper person to bring it here, was brought by one of my brothers, Jesus 
M. Ainsa, who visited Sonora lately. We have been induced to retain it here 
for a short time, to satisfy the curiosity of the San Francisco people. The 
State Geological Society asked to be allowed to have a small piece for their 
collection, which request was, of course, granted. With this exception the 
aerolite has been preserved entirely in the same condition in which it was found 
in Arizona, and by the 13th of this month we will have the pleasure to ship it 
to New York, under the care of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. 
I take this opportunity to offer my services to the Institution. 
I remain, respectfully, 

SANTIAGO AINSA. 
Professor Ssnry, \ 

Smiihsonian Institution, Washington, D. G. 



San Francisco, Oal., August 26, 1863. 

Dear Sir : I have the pleasure to acknowledge your favor of July 31, and 
I take pleasure in complying with your request. In fact I intended to do thia 
before, but, owing to many engagements on hand, I have been postponing it to 
this moment. 

I announced in my last that the meteorite would be sent by the following 
steamer from that date ; but we were asked to retain it some time longer by 
some scientific men, who wished to examine it closely. 

The history of this aerolite we have from our grandmother. Dona Ana Anza 
de Islas, daughter of Don Juan Bautista Anza, our great grandfather. The 
Jesuit missionaries had the earliest knowledge of this curiosity. There were 
various theories entertained about it ; but it was generally believed to proceed 
from some iron mine in the vicinity, which belief holds to this day in Sonora. 
In an expedition made by Don Juan Bautista Anza, then "Gran Capitan de 
las Provincias del Occidente," about the year 1735, to the country about 
Tucson, he was induced to visit the aerolite, and he undertook the work of 
transporting it to Spain. The place where it was found is called " Sierra de 
la Madera," on a spot called Los Muchadios. Through the want of proper 
means and the bad state of the roads, (having to carry it to San Bias, then the 
nearest port of entry,) the work of transportation was given up, and they were 
satisfied to take it as far as Tucson. There it remained ever since, until my 
brother, Agustine Ainsa, undertook to transport it, in 1860, and present it to the 
Institute. His intentions, however, were never carried out until May last, 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS, 87 

when another of my brotliers, Jesus M. Aiusa, visited Sonora and brought it 
with him on his return. 

By the time of the receipt of this the aerolite must be ah-eady in Washington, 
as we delivered it to the agent of the Institute about a month ago, to have it 
transported to you. Your agent spoke to its about expenses ; but we wish not 
to deprive ourselves of the honor of having presented it to the Institute, and 
as such we desire that you should accept it. 

I would be thankful if you would send me a copy of the analysis, and of other 
informat-.on about the aerolite ; and if you find it not too troublesome, to send 
the same, with my compliments, to St. John's College, Fordham, N^ew York, 
where I Avas educated. 

I have the honor to remain, your obedient servant, 

SANTIAGO AINSA. 

Joseph He.xrv, Esq., 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. G. 

[This meteorite is now in the museum, and is an object of special interest to 
visitors.] 



Little Glace Bay, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, 

October 25, 1863. 

My Dear Sir: I send you a specimen of "cone-in-cone," Avhich I have 
lately obtained in sinking a shaft at this place upon the Harbor Vein seam of 
coal described in Professor Lesley's report of this coal-field last year. 

It was found in the band that corresponds to the black bituminous shales 
below the one inch of cannel coal, and 23 feet above the Harbor series of five 
feet of coal. 

It -was only obtained on the northwest side of the shaft, thinning out to the 
south and east, or towards the "crop." The greatest thickness of the bed was 
about 7 inches. The largest "cone-in-cone " was 5^ inches in diameter. 

The journal of the strata sunk through differs somewhat from Professor 
Lesley's taken at the shore. 

ft. in. 

At the shaft-drift and gravel 10.0 

Blue shales, with cyclas shells, fish teeth, and other remains 3.0 

Cone-in-cone ' .5 

Brown band, with coprolites .3 

Blue arenaceous shales , 1.0 

Hard white sandstone 2.0 

Thin bauds of shales " fucoids" 3.2 

Hard sandstone .4 

Blue arenaceous shales 2.6 

Sandstone, black mark, like the fruit " cardeocarpon " 1.04 

Sandy shales .11 

Hard blue shales 3.10 

Blacker band .4 

Fire-clay and ironstone balls 7.5 

Coal 5.5 



41.11 



I cannot find in any work that I possess anything exactly like them, so 
think they may be of interest to add to your museum. 
The points of the cones are downwards. 



88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

I shall be glrtd to hear from you about them after they have been examined. 
I have sent a specimeu to Dr. Dawson, Montreal, but fear the season is too 
late for him to get it this year. 

I remain, my dear sir, your obedient servant, 

HENRY POOLE. 
Joseph I1l;.\kv, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, WasJiington. 

The above relates to a very interesting specimeu of a remarkable concretion 
of a clayey material, which occurs in thin slabs, entirely formed of cones, the 
axes of which are all at right angles to the parallel surfaces of the slabs. The 
only explanation which occurs to us of the mode of formation of this structure 
is that of })ercolation of water charged with earthy material through a porous 
rock, and filling a horizontal crevice with parallel sides, with a series of stalac- 
tites and stalagmites. J. H. 



Hungarian National Museum, 

PestJi, October 15, 1863. 
Sir : In reply to your esteemed letter of the 29th of May, I have the honor 
to inform you that tlie birds sent us through Dr. Flugel have been duly re- 
ceived, and I beg leave to return the heartfelt thanks of our institution for the 
same. Full acknowledgments have also been made in our reports, and in the 
newspapers, of our obligations to the Smithsonian Institution, which stands so 
high in public opinion everywhere. 

AUGUST V. KUBINYI, Director. 
Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



Christiana, Norway, Noremler 4, 18G3. 

Sir : Having been appointed director of the Ethnological Museum at the 
University of Christiana, I have perused a letter of the Gth May, 1862, from 
the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the secretary of this university. 

As this letter alludes to the endeavors of your excellent Institution for the 
collection of ethnological objects from North America, and the utility of estab- 
lishing a system of exchange for European curiosities, I have made use of the 
opportunity to offer you Avhat we have in this line. 

The aboriginal population of this country are the Laps or Laplanders, living 
at present on the mountains and sea-coasts farthest north of Norway, Sweden, 
and Russia. Their language proves them imdoubtcdly to be of the Mongolian 
stock in Asia, and, as such, related to the red man of America. The Laps are 
a remarkable instance of this race, as they are converted to Christianity and 
have adopted the habits and industiy of civilization, modified by the severity 
of the arctic climate in their country and their peculiar mode of subsistence as 
nomads with flocks of reindeer. We have procured a set of models made by 
the individuals of the people themselves, and illustrative of their present mode 
(if existence. 

In offering this small collection for your acceptance, we hope that it may 
serve a scientific purpose in comparing the red man with his yellow brother in 
the old continent. If it should be in your power to afford us some correspond- 
ing objects from your field of research, that is so immensely more extensive, a 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 89 

very great desideratum in our collection would be supplied that would engage 
our mo.st earnest attention. 
The articles in question are — 

I. Three casts, in plaster, taken from living individuals, viz : 1, an unmixed 
Lap, 39 years old ; 2, a man whose father was a Fin from Russian Finland, 
and whose mother Avas a Lap, 42 ycavs old ; 3, a man wliose grandmother was 
a Swede, (of the Teutonic stock,) otherwise Lap, 43 years. 

II. Four photographic portraits: 1, mixture of Lap and Fin, 28 years; 2, 
74 3'-cars ; 3, 28 years ; 4, 38 years — pure Laps. 

III. A reindeer, harnessed with its sledge. The sledge is canoe-shaped, so 
as to be able to move upon the deepest and softest snow without going down into it, • 

IV. A pair of snow-shoes, being very long pieces of thin wood, with which 
the Lap can walk upon soft snow. They have straps or stirrups to put the 
feet into. The man moves on with the staff. 

V. A pair of pack-saddles, with which they move their luggage in summer 
on the back of the reindeers ; included is a model of a wooden tub and a cask ; 
two flat pieces of wood to lay across the back of the reindeer are attached. 

VI. A trunk, in which is included the wooden bowl for preserving the rein- 
deer milk, and the press for making cheese out of it. 

VII. A spade for removing the snow. 

VIII. Two large wooden bowls. 

IX. A tent ; in the middle the fireplace and two pots hanging over it ; 
behind is a scaffolding of wood for their stores, raised upon poles, so that it 
may not be attacked by dogs. 

Confiding in your interest for the advancement of science, I remain, very 
respectfully, your obedient servant, 



Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary t-'mitlisonian Institution, Washington. 

[These articles are now in the museum.] 



LOUIS KR DAA. 



Kaiserliche-Konigliche Geologische Reichs-Anstalt, 

Vienna, December 11, 1863. 
Sir : I have the honor to transmit to you for the Smithsonian Institution a 
scries of tertiary fossils from the Vienna basin, viz : 

From the Congeria beds 6 species. 

From the Cerithium beds 10 species. 

From the Marine beds 270 species. 

Total 2SG species. 



In the, Jbox prepared to be sent you will find, 1, the present letter ; 2, a sys- 
tematic catalogue, with tabular reference to the localities ; 3, a catalogue in 
which the localities are kept separate ; 4, a guide of geographical reference for 
the localities. The number of specimens or lots in catalogue 3 is 622. Beside 
these there are a number imperfectly determined or not belonging to Austrian 
localities. The rest will give a pretty fair idea of the leading or type mollusca 
of our Vienna basin. The series here ofi'ered has been composed or selected 
under the auspices of Dr. Homes, director of the Imperial Museum of Miner- 
alogy, and he placed it at the disposal of our Imperial Geological Institute, so 
that I beg you will consider it as a joint offer from both establishments. 

I have the honor to be, deair sir, ever most truly yours, 

W. HAIDINGER. 



90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

British Museum, December 30, 1863. 
Dbar Sir : I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of this day's 
date, and to acquaiut you that the trustees have acceded to the request made 
by Professor Heury, on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, and that 1 have 
instructed Dr. Gray to give you every facility with a view to such electrotype 
impressions being made for that Institution as are required from our wood 
engravings illustrative of the conchology of the North American continent. I 
shall be happy to see you, and to give you any assistance in my power when 
ever it may be convenient for you to call at the museum, as you propose. 
Believe me, dear sir, yours truly, 

A. PANIZZI. 
Dr. P. P. Carpenter. 



31 Pfeidemarket, Hamburg, 

February 4, 1864. 
Dear Sir : I duly received your very kind letter of the 6th of January, in- 
forming me that the director of the Smithsonian Institution would have the 
kindness to send me five of the American pereunibrauchiates for investigation. 
A few days afterwards the box was delivered into my hands, containing — 

1. Menopoma Alleghaniense. 

2. Menobranchus lateralis. 

3. Siren lacertina. 

4. Amphiuma tridactylum. 

5. Siredon pisciformis. 

All these amphibia being of the greatest importance for my studies, I cannot 
but express to you my most sincere thanks for this most valuable assistance. 
YouAvill allow me to pay to your renowned Institution, in the mean time, my thanks 
for the reports and other valuable works, particularly on the Zoology and Anatomy 
of Amphibia, published at Washington, and directed to me some years ago. 

I should feel most happy if you would give me a direction how I might pay 
my thanks in a more material manner. You will, therefore, oblige me very 
much by informing me of the desiderata in your collections. Perhaps there 
might be some European fishes or amphibia which I might be able to procure for 
you. Of sea snakes, which family of snakes I have described some years ago, 
there are also some few species in my own possession. In minerals I am pretty 
rich, having the best private collection of this branch that exists in our place. 

It is only on the supposition that I might be able to furnish to the Smithso- 
nian Institution some equivalent that I take the great, and, perhaps, immodest 
liberty to mention, that one specimen more of the genera amphiuma, siren, and 
menopoma, would be of the greatest importance for my studies. It would be 
very difficult to decide all the anatomical questions concerning the named 
amphibia after the investigation of only one specimen. Having the intention to 
describe in a comparative manner the bones, muscles, and nerves of the famous 
Salamandra Japonica, with relation to the other genera of Ichthyodea, I feel 
myself in a high degree advanced by the specimens which I owe to your kind- 
negs, and would be induced to hope that my little work niight not remain quite 
imperfect, if there would be any chance to acquire still one specimen more of 
the above-mentioned three genera. 

Finally, you will allow me to say that I am not now in any connexion with 
the Hamburg Museum, as the address of your letter said, but that, though 
behig on very friendly relations with the directors of our collections, I have 
given up my place among them. 

With the highest regards, I am yours, very respectfully, 

Dr. J. G. FISCHER. 

[The specimen requested was sent to Dr. Fischer.] 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 91 

ViENiVA, February 9, 1864. 

My Dear Sir : Permit me to enclose here au invitation to join in a subscrip- 
tion for a gold honorary medal to be presented to our most worthy Professor Ch. 
Fr. Ph. von Martius, of Munich, on his fiftieth anniversary of medical doctorship 
on the 30th of March, 1864. 

Our most honored friends on the other side of the Atlantic should not fail in 
the list; only I am sorry that by various impediments 1 was prevented from 
writing at an earlier period. It is now so late that only by very good luck, it 
will be possible that an answer may arrive previously to the ir)th of March, to 
be entered in the first list which must be printed, embellis"hed, and then bound 
up, and sent to Munich from Vienna before the 30th of March. Whatever is 
brought to notice later than the 30th will be appended, and what comes to hand 
after the 30th up to the end of June will be given in the first complementary 
report to be published on the 1st of July. Nothing will be lost, as even what 
comes after that period will be published afterwards. 

Every subscriber, of course, will have a bronze copy of the medal, and the 
votary tablet sent to him. Subscriptions should be three florins Austrian silver 
money, or more, which is about one and a half dollar American silver. 

By this time you may already have received our last box with tertiary fossil 
types of several localities of the Vienna basin, being a joint parcel from the 
Imperial Mineralogical Cabinet and our own Geological Institution. 

I am happy to hear you have now the Ainsa Tucson meteoric iron. I shall 
send some of these days a paper of mine on the Carleton Tucson, which ap- 
peared in the Vienna Academy Proceedings. I enclose impression from the 
surface, cut, polished, and etched, and galvanographed positively and negatively. 
We shall be happy, as soon as you may fix on cutting some slices off the block, 
to receive a bit from you for our Imperial Mineralogical Museum of the Ainsa 
Tucson too. 

With all the most cordial wishes, ever most truly yours, 

W. HAIDINGER. 

Professor Joseph Henry, 

Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



Office Hudson's Bay Company, 

Montreal, February 26, 1864. 

My Dear Sir : Absence from home and subsequent indisposition have pre- 
vented my acknowledging receipt of your letter of 19th ultimo at an earlier date. 

The settlement you have made of Mr. Kennicott's account is quite satisfac- 
tory. There was a small deficiency in consequence of a change in the rate of 
exchange when your draft reached me ) but that matter can be arranged when 
we receive Mr. Mactavish's final statement of Mr. Kirkby's account. 

The kind expressions of thanks contained in your letter are very gratifying. 
We have always felt pleasure in promoting scientific research ; but, in Mr. 
Kennicott's case, this was enhanced by his amiable character and prudence. It 
is no easy part to play, going as a stranger into a territory inhabited by men 
bound to a foreign government, and with exclusive views on many points. But 
Mr. Kennicott knew how to meet the circumstances ; and from his arrival among 
us until his departure was always popular, and I believe inspired a sincere 
friendship and esteem among those with whom he most associafed. If in 
Washington, pray offer him my kind regards. 

Hoping some day to have the honor and pleasure of forming your personal 
acquaintance, believe me, sir, very truly yours, 

EDW. M. HOPKINS. 

Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 



GEA^EEAL APPENDIX 



REPORT FOR 1863. 



The object of tliis appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution 
by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish 
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and 
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge. 



LECTURES. 



BRIEF ABSTRACT 

OF A SERIES OF SIX LECTURES ON 



r 



THE PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE, 

DELIVERED AT 

9 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN MARCH, 1864. 



BY \nL! lAM D. WHITNEY, PROFESSOR OF SANSKRIT IN YALE COLLEGE, NEW HAVEN. 



The scientific study of language is of modern date. Only its scanty and im- 
perfect germs are to be found in ancient times. It lacked that wide and com- 
prehensive basis of observed and collected facts on which alone such a science 
can be founded. The active and searching curiosity of the past century, with 
the facilities for investigation given by trade, travel, and philanthropic effort, 
could not but call it into being. No single circumstance has so powerfully aided 
its development as the introduction of Sanskrit to the knowledge of Europe. 
This, the most ancient and primitive of Indo-European tongues, laid the sure 
foundation of the comparative philology of the Indo-European family, out of 
which has grown the general science of language. 

The objects of this science are twofold : To discover the nature and history 
of language itself, and to elicit information respecting human history. Both 
are invested with a very high c^egree of importance. The value of language 
to man, and the absorbing interest of inquiry into its character, are palpable, 
and attested by the labors and speculations of generations of scholars and 
thinkers. It has also quite recently been found that language is the principal 
means of ethnological investigation, of tracing out the deeds and fates of men 
during the prehistoric ages. Not only does it detei-mine the fact and the de- 
gree of relationship among nations, but it gives information which can be ob- 
tained in no other way respecting their moral and intellectual character, and the 
growth of their civilization. Linguistic science, as a bi'anch of the study of 
human history, embraces the whole race at every period of its history. All 
spoken or recorded speech is its material. The dialects of the lowliest as well 
as the most highly endowed races are its care. It would fain hold up and study 
every single fact in the light of every other related fact, since only thus can all 
be fully understood. 

To survey in detail, in these lectures, the whole field of linguistic science will 
be, of course, impracticable. We can only attempt to lay down and illustrate 
its fundamental principles, to gain some insight into its methods, to determine 
the nature and force of linguistic evidence, to see how this is elicited from the 
material containing it, to note its bearing on historical and ethnological study, 
and to review briefly the principal results hitherto obtained by its means 
The method followed will be the analytic, establishing principles from facta 



06 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

witbiu every onc't? apprehension, and proceeding from that which is well known 
or obvious, to that ^hich is more obscure. Ilhistrations will be sought, mainly 
from ami)ng the ])henomena of our own familiar speech, since every living and 
growing language has that W'ithin itself which exemplifies the facts and princi- 
ples of universal application in all language. We shall also avoid, as nuich as 
possible, the use of ligurative, philosophical, and technical phraseology, and 
talk the language of plain fact. 

Our j)reliminary in(|uiry may properly be. Why do Ave, ourselves, speak Eng- 
lish? Though a simple question, its correct answer will clear our way of 
many dilliculties. The general reply is obvious : We learned English from 
those among whom our earliest years were passed. We did not produce the 
words we use by an internal impulse, by the reflection of phenomena in our 
consciousness, and the like. As soon as we were able to associate an idea 
and its uttered sign, we were taught to stammer the names of the most familiar 
objects, and our instruction advanced with our capacities ; our notions and con- 
ceptions Averc brought into shapes agreeing Avith those they took in the minds 
about us, and Avere called by the names to Avhich these were accustomed. Cer- 
tain liquids Avhich Ave saAv, colorless and white, had not to be studied and com- 
pared by us in order to the iuA-ention of a title for them. We Avere informed 
that they Avere " Avater " and "milk." The one of them, in certain modes of occur- 
rence, Ave Avcrc made to know as " puddle" and " river." The Avords crjj, strike, 
bite, eat, drink, lore, hate, and so on, Avere taught us by being applied to acts 
and states of Avhich Ave made experience. Long before any mental analysis of 
our own Avould have given us the distinct ideas of true and Jfilse, they Avere im- 
pressed upon our minds by admonition, or something stronger. The ap- 
pellations of hosts of objects, places, beings, Avhich Ave had not seen, and per- 
haps have not yet seen, were fixed in our minds, Avith the means of attaching 
some distinctive idea to them. The amount and kind of this training A^aried 
greatly in different cases, but we all had it, and by it alone could learn to talk 
as we do. Language was the first step in our education. It came by educa- 
tion, and not by inheritance. English blood would never have given us Eng- 
lish speech. We could just as easily have learned to say wasser or eau as 
" Avater," viilcJi or laitas " milk," liehcn or aimer as '■' love," &c. An American 
child is brought up by a French nurse in order that it may speak French first, 
and' it does so. The infant cast on shore alive from a wreck learns the tongue 
of its foster-jDarents, and no outbreak of natural speech ever betrays whence it 
derived its birth. The imported African forgets, in a generation, his Congo or 
Mendi, and is able to use only a dialect of his master's speech. 

It is already clear, then, that English people do not, as some liaA'e paradoxi- 
cally maintained, speak English by inherent natural gift, because they are 
English, just as all SAvallows tAvitter, all bears growl, all lions roar, and so 'on. 
The special forms of spoken language are matters of imitation. They are kept 
up by usage, and transmitted by oral tradition. 

We thus learn, not English simply, but the particular kind of English Avhich 
is spoken by our instructors. A fcAv, perhaps, get nothing from the outset but 
the purest style of the language; but hardly any can escape some tinge of local 
dialect, of the slang of caste or calling, even of individual peculiarities of our 
teachers, inelegancies of pronunciation, pet phrases, colloquialisms and A'ul- 
garisms, and tlu; like. Ofteu en-ors and infelicities thus acquired in early life 
are ineradicable by all the care of after years. 

Again, this process does not give us universal command of the resources of 
the language. A child's A'ocabulary is A'ery scanty, and goes on incrcasiiig to 
the end of life. The encyclopedic English tongue, as we may call it, contains 
over one hundred thousand Avords. Of these, the most uninstructed classes ac- 
quire only three to five thousand, a frugal stock of the most indispensable Avords 
and phrases. To such a nucleus every artisan, in every walk of labor, must 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 97 

add his own technical language, containing much which most English speakers 
know nothing of. No small portion of the one hundred thousand words is made 
up of such special vocabularies. The generally educated man learns much of 
many of them, but no one learns them all. Everyone may find, on every page 
of our rreat dictionaries, v/ords which he knows not how to deal with. There 
are various styles of expression for tlie same thing which arc not at every one's 
command. Even the meanings attributed to the same words by different speakers 
are different. The voluptuary, the passionate, the philosophic, and the senti- 
mental, for example, mean very different things by "love" and " hate." It is 
no paradox to maintain that, AvhileAve all speak English, no two among us speak 
precisely ihe same language, the same in extent, form, or meaning. 

What, then, is the English language 1 It is the aggregate of the articulated 
signs for thought current among the English people ; or, it is their average, that 
part which is supported by the usage of the majority — a majority counting not 
by numbers only, but by culture. It includes varieties of every kind ; but it 
has unity, from the fact that all who speak it may, to a considerable extent, and 
on matters of the most general interest, talk so as to understand one another. 
It is kept in existence by uninterrupted tradition, in which each individual takes 
a part, handing down his portion of it, with his limitations and peculiarities — 
books, a kind of undying individual, greatly assisting in the process. But all 
traditional transmission is inherently and necessarily defective, and that of 
language forms no exception. If English were a certain fixed body of words, 
learned complete by every one, and kept intact, it might more easily be preserved 
from alteration. As the case stands, it does not remain the same from genera- 
tion to generation. 

Its most noticeable mode of alteration is that which is ever going on in its vo- 
cabulary, especially its technical vocabularies. New processes ,and products, 
new views and opinions, new knowledge of every kind, must find their fit ex- 
pression. No well-informed man can write a chapter now upon what every one 
. is thinking and talking of which would be intelligible to the well-informed man 
of a century ago. There are also changes affecting rather the form than the 
content of language, of slow progress, and in their inception, in great part, inac- 
curacies of speech, opposed by the conservative forces, yet as inevitable in the 
end as the others. They show the influence of the great numerical majority 
who do not speak with correctness, but whose errors finally become the norm 
of the language. Thus, we had formerly a special preterit form spake, and good 
speakers would as soon have said " he come and done it" as " he spoke to me." 
Now only sjwke is in common use. Three centuries ago we had only his as 
possessive of both //e and it, but popular usage struck out a new possessive, 
its, for the latter. You we employ not only as object, according to its ancient 
usage, but as subject, instead of ye, &c., &c. The influences Avhich brought 
about such changes are still to be seen in full operation about us, especially 
among children and uninstructed persons, to whom the communication of the 
language is imperfectly or incorrectly made. A child substitutes an easy for 
a hard sound in pronouncing, drops out a syllable or two from a half-under- 
Etood word, says "I bringed" or "Ibraug" for I brought, says "mansj" and 
"mouses," says "gooder" and "goodest," and the like. Its own and others' 
care corrects these errors ; but if the car6 be wanting, the error remains ; and 
there arc ever in existence, among the lower strata of language-users, hosts of 
these deviations from correct usage, always threatening, and sometimes suc- 
ceeding in making their way to the surface, and securing recognition and gen- 
eral adoption. The conservative forces arrayed against them, aided by school 
instruction and reading, are now so powerful among lis that the language 
changes but very slowly in this way, yet the examples given are truly typical, 
and illustrate a force always in action. That, in these and other methods, lan- 
guage actually undergoes notable change is palpably true. Go back only to 
7 S 



93 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

our Bible translation, to Sbakspeare, and much is found which is no longer good 
English. Go back five hundred years, to Chaucer, and our own tongue is only 
partially intelligible to us. Another five hundred years carries us to the Anglo- 
Saxon of King Alfred, a totally strange form of speech, as much so as the 
modern German ; and yet each one of the thirty or forty generations between 
lis and Alfred was as singly intent on transmitting to its successor the language 
it received from its predecessor as is our OAvn. 

^'hesc facts and conditions are of universal occurrence in linguistic history. 
All language is handed down in the manner described, and is subject to the 
same disturbing forces. The process of transmission always has been, and al- 
ways will be, imperfect. Ko tongue remains the same during a long period of 
time. This is the fundamental fact on which rests the whole method of lin- 
guistic investigation. 

We see now what is meant when language is spoken of as having an inde- 
pendent existence, as being organic, or an organism, as growing or developing, 
and so on. These are only figurative modes of speech. Language has no ex- 
istence, save in tlu; minds and mouths of those who employ it. It is an aggre- 
gate of signs of thought, deriving their significance from the intelligent agree- 
ment of speakers and hearers. It is in their power, and subject to their Avill. 
As they maintain it in existence, so their consenting action modifies and alters 
it. It cannot be changed hastily or capriciously, because it depends upon gen- 
eral consent, which can be won only for such modifications and extensions as 
are in accordance with its already established rules. Individuals are constantly 
trying experiments of alteration upon it, with childish errors of expression, with 
bad grammar, with slang, with artificial turns of phrase, and arbitrarily coined 
words. But these are, for the most part, only laughed at as blunders, or put 
down as mannerisms and vulgarisms. Individual authority, except in special 
cases, is too weak to force itself upon public opinion. The speakers of lan- 
guage constitute a republic, in Avhich authority is conferred only by universal 
suffrage, and for due cause. High political rank does not give power over 
speech. The grammatical blunders of an emperor do not become the rule to 
his subjects. But individuals are allowed to introduce novelties and changes 
into the general speech ; thus, for instance, to name their own inventions or 
discoveries, if they do it discreetly ancl suitably ; and great masters of the art of 
speech, poets, orators, are permitted to touch even the more intimate and sacred 
parts of language. Is it called fqr 1 is it in accordance with the usages and 
analogies of the language? is it offered or supported by good authority? — 
such are the consideraticms by which, in any given case, general consent is 
won or repelled, and this decides whether the proposed change shall be ire- 
jected, or shall become part and parcel of the universal speech. 

As, then, an organic being grows by the gradual accretion of homogeneous 
organic matter, as its existing parts and processes form the new addition, in order 
to help the life and functional action of the being, so language extends by the 
addition of material accordant with its substance, evolved by its formative 
methods, and intended to secure the end of its existence, the expression of the 
thoughts of those who speak and write it. It thus presents striking and in- 
structive analogies with organic life ; but to call it an organism outright, as some 
do, and to claim that its growth is independent of human agency, and that its 
study is, therefore, to be ranked among the physical sciences, is palpably and 
seriously to misinterpret it. Language is an institution, constantly midergoing, 
at the hands of those who us(> it, adaptation to their varying circumstances and 
needs. Between all determining causes and their results in its development 
stands, as middle term, the human mind, seeking and choosing expression for 
human thought.' Its every part is a historical product. Its study is a historical 
Bcieuce, a branch of the study of the human race, and of human institutions. 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 99 

« 

As every constituent item of language is the product of a series of changes, 
working themselves out in history, the method of linguistic investigation must 
be historical. To understand the structure and character of speech, and to 
penetrate to its origin, we must follow backward the modifying processes to 
which it has been subjected, endoavoring to understand the influences which have 
produced and governed them. This can be done to but small extent by means 
of contemporary records.- We must call to our aid the art of etymological 
analysis. On etymology, the tracing out of the history of individual words, is 
founded the whole science of language. To illustrate the methods of etymolo- 
gizing, and to bring to light some of its results, by simple and characteristic 
examples, is the object of this second lecture. 

Let us look first at evidence showing the composite nature of words. We 
are all the time putting together two words to form a compound ; as, Jear- 
inspiring, god-like, Iwuse-top, and so on. But the extent to which language is 
the result of such composition is apparent only on deeper study. Fearful is 
as clear a compound, on reflection, a,s fear-inspiring ; yet ful is, to our appre- 
hension, a kind of sufiix, forming a large class of adjectives from nouns, like 
the suffix ous, (in peril-ous, riot-ous, &c. ;) and its independent origin and 
meaning are but dimly present to the mind of one who uses the adjectives. 
Fearless and its like are not less evident compounds ; but the less here is not 
our word less, but the altered form of an older word, meaning " loose, free." 
Again : ly, in godly, brutherly, &c., is of yet obscurer origin, and we deem it 
merely a suflix ; but a study of the other forms of our language, or a compari- 
son of kindred Germanic dialects now spoken, shows it to be descended from 
the adjective like, which has been used in all the languages of our family as 
an adjective-forming suffix ; Ave alone have given it the further and now re- 
motely derived office of adverbial suffix, employable at will to convert any 
adjective into an adverb. The d of such words as I loved, I hated, is proved 
by the form it wears in the oldest Germanic tongues to be a relic of the past 
tense did : I loved is originally 1 love did. Such and whick were once so-like- 
and v^io-like, and so on. The same is the case in the Latin part of our lan- 
guage, and even in its oldest and most essential constituents. The ble or pie 
0^ double, triple, and so 'on, is the root jylic, meaning "bend, fold;" trijjle is 
the precise etymological equivalent of threefold. The two letters of am, which 
seems as simple a word as aught can be, are relics of two elements : one, the 
root as, meaning "be;" the other, the pronoun mi, meaning " me, I;" am 
stands for as-mi, " be-I." The third person, is, has lost the whole of a second 
^lement, ti, which it once possessed, and of which at least the t is left in nearly 
fll the kindred languages ; compare German ist, Latin est, Greek esti, Sanscrit 
asti, &c. 

With few exceptions, all the words of our language admit of such analysis, 
which discovers in them at least two elements : one radical, containing the 
fundamental idea ; the other formal, indicating its restriction, application, or 
relation. This is, in fact, the normal constitution of a word ; it contains a root 
and a suffix or prefix, or both, or more than one of both. Thus, inapplicabili- 
ties contains two prefixes and three suffixes, all clustered about the root plic, 
" bend ;" and it is, as it were, the fusion and integration of the phrase " nume 
rous conditions of not being able to bend or fit to something." 

Our examples show that word-analysis is, at least in part, only the retracing 
of a previous synthesis. We are as sure of the actuality of the process of com- 
t bination by which these words were formed as if it had all gone on under our 
own eyes. There would have been no such suffixes as ful, less, ly, &c., if 
there had not been before in the language the independent words full, loose, 
like, &c. No small part of the formative elements of our language can thus 
be proved descended from independent words ; if a considerable part do not 
admit like proof, we are not authorized to suppose that their history is different 



100 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

from that of the others, but ouly that we have not at command the evidence 
which would explain it. 

The same examples show not less clearly that alteration, corruption, and 
mutilation of the products of combination is a rule of the life of language. 
The reason of this corruption lies in great measure in the fact that, having 
once struck out a compound, we are not solicitous to keep up the memory of 
its descent. We accept the word coined as a conventional sign for the idea 
which it conveys, and give our attention mainly to that. Hence ease and con- 
venience in the use of the word are consulted ; a long vocable is contracted ; a 
hard combination of consonants is mouthed over into more ntterablc shape ; 
subordinate elements arc defaced into conformity with the inferiority of their 
consequence. So the sailor says hos'n for boatswain, t&gaVnts'ls for topgal- 
lantsaUs, &c. This is a part of the wise economy of speech, a sign and means 
of the integration of words, contributing to conciseness and vigor of expression. 
But it is also a blind tendency, and its effect is in part destructive. It leads 
to waste as well as economy; ease and convenience being consulted by the 
sacrifice of what is valuable as well as the rejection of what is unnecessary — 
if, indeed, it can truly be said that a people not undergoing degradation of 
character ever sacrifices anything of its language which is really valuable with- 
out providing an equivalent. A language may thus, at any rate, become greatly 
altered, giving up much which in other tongues is retained and valued. Our 
own English offers one of the extremest examples known of the prevalence of 
these wearing-out tendencies. 

Thus, for instance, the primitive language from which our own is descended 
had a full set of terminations for the three persons plural of the vei'b, viz : jnasi, 
tasi, nti — e. g., lagamasi, lagatasi, laganti, " we lie, ye lie, they lie." In 
Latin they appear shorn of their final vowel, as vius, tis, nt. In Gothic, the 
oldest Germanic language, they are reduced to their initial consonants only, 
m, th, nd — thus, ligam, ligith, ligand. They arc still, in this form, pretty 
distinctive, and sufficient for their purpose. But the prevailing custom of ex- 
pressing the pronouns along with the verb lessened their necessity; and in 
Anglo-Saxon they are all reduced to a single form, ath in the present, on in 
the imperfect. We, finally, have cut them off entirely, and say ice lie, ye lie, 
they lie, without any endings designating the person. 

In the declension of nouns we have effected a revolution not less thorough. 
Our ancient mother-tongue declined every noun substantive in three numbers, 
with eight cases in each, and every adjective in three genders besides. With 
us all adjective declension has disappeared, and of substantive declension Ave 
have saved only a genitive and a plural ending, both s. In a few plurals, lis 
men, mice, teeth, M'C have seized npon a distinction at first euphonic and acci- 
dental only, and have made it significant. So also in the conjugation of our 
" irregular" verbs, as sivg,sang, sung ; the change of vowel was at first merely 
euphonic, then became, as in most German dialects it still continues, auxiliary 
to the sense, and finally, with us, it is in many cases the only means of dis- 
tinction of present, preterite, and participle. 

In one remarkable case, the Avcaring-out processes have led to the total 
abandonment of a conspicuous department of grammatical structure. A dis- 
tinction of gender in nouns, as masculine, feminine, or neuter, marked by dif- 
ferences of termination and declension, has ever prevailed in the family of lan- 
guages to which ours belongs. Even in the Anglo-Saxon, noims were still 
masculine, feminine, or neuter, not according to their natural character, but in 
conformity with the ancient tradition, on fanciful grounds of difference, which 
we find it excessively difficult to trace out and recognize. But in the exten- 
sive decay and ruin of grammatical* forms attending the elaboration of modern 
English from Anglo-Saxon and Norman French, this whole scheme of artificial 



PEINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. lOi 

distinctions lias disappeared, leaving alinost no trace behind. Natural gender 
has replaced grammatical, and the pronominal forms he, she, it, 7us, him, her, its, 
are our only means for its indication. 

These two processes — the production of new forms hy the comLination of 
old materials, and the wearing down and Avearing out of the forms so produced, 
are tlie principal means by which the external life and growth of language are 
kept up, by whose operation spoken tongues are constantly becoming other 
than they Avere. But they are only auxiliary to a not less striking growth in 
the interior content of speech, in the meaning of words. It is as important a 
part of the historical study of a word to trace out its changes of signiiication 
as its changes of form ; and the former are even richer in curious and unex- 
pected developments, are fuller of instruction, than the latter. The internal 
content of language is phistic to the touch of the inspiring mind. But for 
this, no variability of form or facility of combination could make it aught but a 
stiif dead structure, incapable of supplying for any time the needs of a think- 
ing, feeling, observing, and reasoning community. ' Old words are applied to 
new uses ; the general is individualized, the individual generalized ; the con- 
crete becomes the abstract ; a pregnant expression, a startling metaphor, is 
reduced to the level of an ordinary phrase ; delicate shades of meaning are dis- 
tinguished by the gradual differentiation of sj'uonymous words, and so on. 

The rate at which these processes of change go on is very various. It de- 
pends, in part, upon subtle and recondite causes, as upon the individual char- 
acter of different languages and the qualities of the peoples who speak them — 
qualities, perhaps, wliich exhibit themselves only in this way, and hardly ad- 
mit of analysis and recognition elsewhere. In part, it depends also upon ex- 
ternal circumstances, upon change of surroundings and mode of life, of mental 
and physical activity. An English family, wrecked on a coral island in the 
south seas, Avould soon find a great part of its vocabulary useless, and in a 
very few generations its language would have become vastly impoverished. 
A tribe from such an island, again, if suddenly transferred to the midst of 
northern variety of clime, product, and occupation, would have to expand 
I'apidly its store of speech to keep pace with the growing wealth of its expe- 
riences. As regards grammatical change, all that assists the j)urity of linguistic 
tradition tends to keep language the same ; so, especially, culture, literature, 
the habit of instruction. Careful and pervading education reduces to a mini- 
mum that immense and most important class of changes which begins in popu- 
lar inaccuracies. On the other hand, the intermixture of races of diverse 
speech, rendering necessary the elaboration, by mutual compromise, of a new 
dialect for common use, tends powerfully to the disorganization of grammatical 
structure. It is such a course which has made of our English the language 
which, above all others, has yielded up most of the grammatical fabric which 
was its birthright and inheritance. 



The processes of alteration illustrated in the last lecture are familiarly spoken 
of as going on in language itself, like fermentation in bread, or deplacement 
and replacement in animal tissues. But it must not be forgotten that every 
separate item of change is the work of an individual or individuals. In lan- 
guage, the ultimate atoms at work are not dead matter, but intelligent beings, 
acting for a purpose. Each, indeed, acts unpremeditatedlv, and for the most 
part unconsciously ; each only wants to use the common possession for his own 
benefit, at his own convenience ; yet each is also an actor in the great work of 
preserving and of shaping the general speech. Now, the infinite diversity of 
circumstances and of characters in the speakers of language tends toward infi- 
nite diversity in their action and its results ; each would, acting independently, 
impress upon its progress a somewhat different course. Linguistic develop- 



102 PKINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

ment is thus the procluot of jm infiuity of divergent or dfentrifugal forces. The 
great centripetal force which hohls them in check, and combines them into a 
sinc'le direction, is the necessity of communication. Man is no soliloquist, and 
that would not be language which was understood and employed by one only. 
Each person is, in his own way, engaged in modifying language, but no one's 
action sha])es the general speech unless it be accepted by the rest and biecome 
common usage. Each community must speak alike; Avhatever changes their 
tongue may undergo must be ratiiieil and adopted by ihem all. 

Communication being thus the force which produces uniformity of speech, it 
is clear that whatever narrows communication and tends to isolate communities 
favors separation of a language into dialects ; whatever extends communication 
and expands the limits of communities, tends to preserve language homoge- 
neous. When a race is confined within narrow boundaries, however rapidly 
its tongue may undergo the inevitable processes of change, all will learn from 
each and each from all, and they will continue to understand one anoth(?r. But 
if the race grow rapidly in numbers, spi-eading over region after region, and 
sending out distant colonies, only favoring circumstances and conditions can 
preserve its unity of speech. In a low state of civilization' a maintenance of 
the bonds of community over a wide area is impracticable ; the tendency is to 
clannish feeling, to separation into tribes ; and multiplicity of dialects is the 
natural consequence. Culture and enlightenment give a wonderful cohesive 
force; political- unity, national feeling, community of traditions and faith, make 
strongly in favor of linguistic unity also; a traditional literature helps yet more 
powerfully to the same result; but, most of all, a written literature, and a sys- 
tem of popular instruction. The same causes which restrict the variation of 
language in time, from generation to generation, restrict it also in space, from 
region to region. Moreover, as community occasions and preserves identity of 
speech, so it also has power to bring identity out of dissimilarity. The fusion 
of communities causes the fusion of their forms of speech ; the multiplication 
and strengthening of the ties which bind together the sections of a people makes 
for the efi'acement of differences already existing, the assimilation of dialects, and 
the production of homogeneous language. 

Both classes of influences — those which lead to diversity and those which 
produce assimilation — are always at work, and a consideration of their joint 
and mutual action is necessary to the explanation of the history of any lan- 
guage, or family of langvxages'; but the former are more fundamental and in- 
separable from linguistic growth ; the latter are more external and incidental, 
more varying in their mode and scale of operation. Language everywhere 
tends to diversity, but circumstances connected with its use check, control, and 
even reverse the tendency. The division of a formerly homogeneous language 
into dialects has been the rule in human history ; the extinction of dialectic 
differences, wdielher by the extinction or fusion with others of the peoples em- 
ploying them, or by extension of the sway of single dialects, has been the ex- 
ception, connected with the great facts of history, as the spread of empire and 
civilization under the auspices of certain races. Misled by a too exclusive at- 
tention to facts of the latter class, one or two modern authors of high rank have 
been guilty of the paradox of holding that infinite dialectic division is the 
noi'mal primitive state of language, which tends to coalescence and assimilation. 
A greater and more pernicious error could hardly be maintained. 

'rhe principles h^"e laid down teach us how we arc to proceed in classifying 
and arranging the infinity of tongues now prevailing on the earth. Many of 
them, at least, are the divergent branches of more original stocks. Languages 
arc to be grouped by their affinities : we are to rank together first those which 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 103 

are of closest and. most evident relationship, and gradually to extend our scheme 
till we have done all which the nature of the case permits ; tift the evidence on 
•which we found our classification fails us. 

That the slightly distinguished Ibrms of speech prevailing in the different 
sections of our own country, and even the more notable dialects which are to 
be found among the lower orders of population in the British isles, constitute 
together a single language, is too evident to call for proof. Let the man most 
ignorant of history go alDout the world, from British colony to colony, finding 
here and. there, on coast and island, in fortress and city, communities of Englith- 
speakiug people, and he will not think of doubting that they v/ere all scattered 
thither from a common centre, and have their common language by community 
of linguistic tradition. A like conclusion is almost equally palpable when we 
seek after kindred for our language on the continent of Europe. There is a 
large class of evidently related dialects, occupying the Netherlands, Germany, 
Denmark, the Scandinavian peninsula, and Iceland, which a very little study 
shows us to be akin with the more important half of our own tongue, tiiat 
which comes to us from the Anglo-Saxon. There is another large class in 
southern Europe, comprising the French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Rhato- 
Komanic, and Wallachian, which exhibit an equally clear connexion with the 
non-Saxon part of our familiar speech. If Ave say true, Avhilc the Dutchman 
says trouw, the German tmi, the Swede and Dane tro, Sec, it is because vvo 
have all received the same word in the same sense by uninterrupted tradition 
from some community which tised a form coincident Avith one of these, or nearly 
resembling them all. So, also, if we say verity, while the Frenchman says 
rerite, the Italian verita, the Spaniard verdad, &c. Recorded history, in fact, 
fully explains the descent of this latter class of languages from a single mother, 
the Latin, as it also makes clear why our English is composed of materials 
derived from both classes. What recorded history does not explain is the 
more recondite, but not less undeniable evidence of relationship Avhich Ave dis- 
cover between these two classes themselA'es, as well as between them both and 
most of the other languages of Europe, together Avith some of those of Asia. 
These are, namely, the Greek, ancient and modern ; the SlaA'onic, occupying 
Russia, Poland, Bohemia, Servia, and other provinces in the eastern part of 
Austria and the northern of Turkey ; the Lithuanic, around the southern shore 
of the Baltic; the Celtic, of Avhich the scanty remains are now found in Ireland, 
the Scotch highlands, AVales, and Brittany; and, outside of Europe, the tongues 
of Iran, as the Persian, Avith its ancient and modern congeners, and its remoter 
kindred, Kurdish, Armenian, Afghan, and Ossetic ; and, finally, the languages 
of India, the Sanscrit and its descendants. 

These \'arious branches go together to make np the great family of related 
languages Avhich'Ave call the Indo-European. Their relation to one another is 
the same in kind Avith that of the various Germanic dialects, or the Romanic, 
and differs only in degree. The resemblances and coincidences Avhich they 
exhibit are explainable only upon the hypothesis of a common linguistic tradi- 
tion ; their differences are fully accounted for by their diA^ergent groAvth and 
development during the ages Avhich haA'e passed since their separation. A fcAV 
selected specimens of their accordance Avill be enough to give here, as their 
relation is noAv a matter of general knowledge, and feAV or none are found to 
doubt or deny it. Examples of Avords corresponding in all or nearly all the 
branches are as follows (the equivalent words in tAvo or three unconnected 
languages are also added for the sake of more fully exhibiting the value of the 
coincidences) : 



104 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE'. 



Three. 


1 Seven. 


Thou. 


Me. 


Mother. 


Brother. 


Daughter. 


Thri. 

Tri. 

Tri. 

Tri. 

Tres. 


Sibun. 

Sepfyui. 

Sedmi. 
1 Secht. 
j Septem. 
1 Hepta. 

Hapta. 

Sapta. 

1 Sab'. 
: Ycrli. 
' llet. 


Thu. 

Tu. 

TU. 

Tu. 

Tu. 

Su. 

Tiim. 

Twam. 

Anta. 

Sen. 

Te. 


Mik. 

Manen. 

Man. 

Me. 

Me. 

Me. 

Me. 

Me. 

Ana. 
Ben. 
Engem. 


Muoter. 

Moter. 

Mater. 

Mathair.» 

Srater. 

Meter. 

Matar. 

Matar. 

Umm. 

Ana. 

Anya. 


Brothar. 

Brolis. 

Brat. 

Brathair. 

F rater. 

Phrator. 


Dauhfar. 
IJukter. 
Docliy. 
Dear. 


Trcia. 
Tri. 


Thugater. 


Tri. 

Thalath. 

Uch. 

Ilarom. 


Bhratar. 

Akh. 

ICardash. 

Fiver. 


Duhitar. 

Bint. 
Kiz. 
Loany. 



Germanic Twa. 

Lithuanie J)u. 

Slavonic ■ Dwa. 

Celtic I Dau. 

Latin Duo. 

Greek Duo. 

Persian Dwa. 

Sanscrit I Dwa. 

Arabic | Ithn. 

Turkish i Iki. 

Hungarian | Ket. 



But, to the liistorical student of language, correspondences of grammatical 
structure arc more unequivocal signs of near relationship than Correspondences 
of words, being less exposed to imputation of accidental origin. As striking 
and convincing an example of this kind of evidence, perhaps, as any other is 
furnislied in the inflection of the verbal tenses, as folloAvs : 





I have. 


Thou hast. 


He hath. 


We have. 


Yo have. 


They have. 




Haba. 

-mi. 
-mi. 
-m. 
Habeo. 

-mi. 
-m. 
-mi. 


Habai-s. 

-si. 


Habai-th. 
-ti. 
-ti. 
-d. 
Habe-t. 
-ti. 
-d. 
-ti. 


Habar-m. 

-me. 

-mu. 

-m. 
Habe-mus. 

-mes. 

-m. 

-ruasi. 


Habai-th. 

-te. 

-te. 

-d. 

Habe-tis. 

-te. 

-d. 

-tha. 


Haba-nd. 






-nU, 


Celtic 




Habc-s. 
-si. 


Habe-nt. 
-nti. 
-nd. 
-nti. 








-si. 





These are specimens, taken from among a host of others which crowd every 
part of the grammar and vocabulary of the languages in question, and their 
convincing weight it is impossible to deny. It is certain that at some time in 
the past, and in some limited region of Asia or Europe, there lived a tribe from 
whose rude speech have descended all those rich and cultivated tongues now 
spoken and written by so many great nations of both the eastern and western 
continents ; but to know just where and when is beyond our power. The claim 
often set up that the home of the family was in the northeastern part of the 
Iranian plateau, not far from the mountains of the Ilindu-Koh, rests upon no 
Bufficient grounds. The traditions of no race reach back far enough to be 
authoritative upon such a point. Nor is the testimony derivable from language 
more conclusive. And to define, even with distaiit approach to confidence, the 
time which the tongues of the family must have occupjed in running their 
career of development is wholly impracticable. That the time of Indo-Euro- 
pean unity must have been thousands of years before Christ is very certain. 
Recent discoveries are proving that man's antiquity is much greater than has 
hithei'to been usually supposed. Respecting the origin of particular races our 
knowledge is likely ever to continue exceedingly indefinite. As to the grade 
of civilization and mode of life, however, of the Indo-European fiimily before 
its dispersion, their language gives us reliable, though incomplete, information. 
Words which are found in the speech of all the separated branches must have 
appertained to tlie mother tongue, and must imply the knowledge or possession, 
in that primitive period, of what they indicate. By such means we learn that 
the tribe was not nomadic, and that it addicted itself to agriculture and the 
raising of cattle. It reared our chief domestic animals. The region it inhabited 
was varied, and not near the ocean ; its most marked season was winter. 
Barley, and perhaps Avheat also, was raised for food. Certain metals were 
worked, perhaps iron among them. Weaving was practiced. 1'he arms of 
oiTence and defence were those usual among primitive peoples — the bow, sword, 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 105 

ppear, and sliiclcl. Boats were built and managed by oars. The political organi- 
zation was probably that of petty tribes. The relations of the fomily were well 
and distinctly established. Some of the stars were noticed and named ; the 
moon Tvas the chief measurer of time. The religion was polytheistic — a worship 
of the personified poAvers of nature, and its rites were practiced without a 
priesthood. 



The present lecture is to be devoted to the further consideration of the Indo- 
European family, to a brief exposition of its importance, and of the special 
interest attaching to its language, and to some account of the history of the 
latter. 

One source of the especial interest which we feel in Indo-European speech 
is found in the fact that our own language is one of its branches. This would 
call for and justify a particular attention to it on our part, even did it lack 
claims to the same from men of other races. But it does, in fact, possess such 
claims, and that partly by reason of the historical importance of the peoples 
which sj3eak it, and their superior gifts, Avhich lend prominent value to inquiries 
into a matter which illustrates both. Since the first rise of the Persian empire, 
the various branches of this family have borne a leading part in the drama of 
universal history. Greece, however, the bitter foe and final conqueror of Persia, 
was the chief founder of Indo-European greatness, and the most brilliant ex- 
ample of Indo-European genius ; in art and literature what the Hebrew race 
has been in religion, and exerting an influence as unlimited in space and in 
time. Rome next, inheriting the fruits of Greek culture, gained the empire of 
the world, and impressed upon all nations a political and social unity. Chris- 
tianity itself, rejected by the Semitic race among whom it appeared, was taken 
up by Indo-Europcans, and added a new bond of unity, a religious one, to the 
ties by which Rome bound the world together. The Germans were mainly 
instrumental in overthrowing the power of Rome ; they gave monarchs to nearly 
every throne in Europe, and infused new blood into the effete populations ; but 
their devastations ushered in a period of darkness, during which it seemed for 
a time as if the Semites, inspired with the fury of a new religion, (Moham- 
medanism,) were to succeed to the empire of humanity. With their repulse and 
downfall began the last and most glorious era of Indo-European supremacy, in 
the midst of which we live; when the races of that family are the undisputed 
leaders, the acknowledged guardians and propagators of civilization. The 
establishment of the unity of this family, and the light thrown from language 
upon its history, constitute the most brilliant achievement of the new science 
of language, Avhich began Avith its recognition, and has developed along Avith 
its investigation. Indo-European language furnished such a grand body of 
related facts as the science needed for its sure foundation. Its dialects have a 
range, in period and A'ariety of development, to which those of no other family 
approach ; they illustj'ate the processes of linguistic groAvth upon an unrivalled 
scale. The records of Chinese literature'go back, perhaps, to an antiquity as 
great, or greater ; but the Chinese language is almost Avithout a history. There 
are Egyptian Avrittcn documents Avhich -are older than anything else the world 
has to show, but they are scanty and obscure, and the Egyptian tongue also 
stands comparatively isolated. The Semitic languages come nearest to offering 
a parallel ; but they, too, fall far short of it. While their age is nearly the same, 
their variety is greatly inferior; they are a group of closely related dialects, not 
presenting greater differences than some single branches of the Indo-European 
family, as, for instance, the Germanic. And the other divisions of the human 
race hardly cover, to any notable extent, time as Avell as space Avith their knoAA'n 
dialects; they offer us only their extant forms of speech. Now, much may be 



106 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

done, even with the aid of contemporary related dialects only, toward pene- 
trating their common hit^tory, bccausso one will be found to have preserved one 
part, another auolhcr, of their ances^trul tongues; but conclusions so reached 
will be inferior both in copiousness and in certainty to those which are derived 
from a comparative study of older and younger dialects, which illustrate the 
laws of change in their progress, and trace, as it were, currents and coui-ses of 
development whose direction Ave can follow backward with confidence. This 
advantage we enjoy, to the highest known degree, in the Indo-European lan- 
guages. In the Germanic branch we have several different lines of linguistic 
descent, extending through a period of 1,500 years ; the English going back to 
the Anglo-Saxon of the seventh century ; the German nearly or quite as far ; 
the Scandinavian to a somewhat less remote period; while the venerable Gothic 
of the fourth century (oldest of all) helps notably to bridge over the interval to 
the primitive language of the family. Celtic literature is much less rich, and 
also less ancient, carrying us up. to or beyond the tenth century. The oldest 
of the numerous Slavonic dialects, the ancient Bulgarian, has monuments a 
thousand years old. The Lithuanic is of much more recent date, but in many 
of its forms more antique and primitive than any of the languages hitherto 
referred to. The Romanic languages, through their mother, the Latin, take 
us up to a few centuries beyond the Christian era; the Greek to toward a 
thousand years before Christ. The varied series of Persian tongues comes 
down from an antiquity nearly equalling the Greek; and the Sanscrit, the 
sacred language of ancient India, exceeding all the rest in age, and yet more in 
its preservation of primitive material and forms, reaches in its oldest records an 
epoch lemoved nearly 4,000 years from our own day. 

In investigating this rich and varied body of kindred tongues, the new 
science of language elaborated its processes and deduced its general laws, ap- 
plicable, with such modifications as the separate cases require, to other families 
also. The general method of study is everywhere the same, being conditioned 
by the nature of language itself, as a thing of historic growth, and by the 
capacity of related languages to cast light upon each other's history. Historic 
analysis, by the aid of an extensive and careful comparison of kindred forms, is 
the grand means of research. From this its fundamental method, the science, 
in its growing stage, bore for some time the familiar name of "comparative 
philology." The comparison must be made in a scientific and orderly manner, 
proceeding from the nearer to the more remotely connected, from the clearer to 
the more obscure; but, finally, all language is brought within its sphere, and 
the full meaning of each linguistic fact is read in the light of every other, 
diverse as well as correspondent. 

The history of Indo-European speech has been more carefully read, and is 
better understood, than that of any other grand division of human language — 
imperfect as is still our comprehension of much that concerns it, partly owing 
to the incomplete analysis of evidence still preserved, but partly also to the 
irreparable loss of evidence. Some of the principal facts in that history are 
worthy of further attention. 

The chief processes in the growth of the languages of our family have been 
shown to be the combination of old material into new words, with accompany- 
ing corruption and mutilation of phonetic form and independent meaning. 
These processes may go on in the future to an indefinite extent, with constant 
evolution from each form of speech of another slightly differing from it, until 
the descendants of every existing dialect shall be so unlike their ancestors 
that their relationship shall be scarcely discoverable. The question arises, 
whether there has been the same indefinite progress in the past, without 
traceable sign of an actual beginning. This inquiry is to be answered in the 
negative ; the evidence of language points distinctly back to an earliest con- 
dition, or commencement of history ; our analysis brings us fiuAlly to elements 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 107 

which we must regard as original. First, it must he claimed that our analyses are 
real, and not imaginary ; they are the retracing of the steps of a previous 
synthesis. This is palpably the case with the latest of them, as in the case 
of truthful (trutli-ful ) and godhj (god-like) ; it is equally clear, too, as regards 
all the formative apparatus which is peculiar to the Germanic languages, since 
this must have been elaborated by them from their own materials, since the 
separation of the Germanic branch from the rest of the fiimily. But there is 
no stopping in this series of admissions. Every word-element, separable by 
analj'sis, of Avhich the genesis can be shown, which can be carried back to a 
word having an independent status in the language, must have been appended 
as an independent vocable to the words with which it was first connected. 
And even more. Considering how easily the evidence of origin becomes oblit- 
erated by the processes of phonetic alteration, we may not deny a former in- 
dependence to formative elements of which we cannot now trace the genesis. 
The parts into which etymological analysis separates our words are, as a uni- 
versal rule, those by the actual putting together of which the words in ques- 
tion wei'e once made up. In analyzing irrevocahility, for example, we take 
off affix after affi"x, leaving each time a word to which that affix had been 
added, till at last is left only the syllable ?;oc, which conveys the idea of "call- 
ing," and which, though nowhere appearing in its naked form in actual use, 
we must believe to have existed before any one of the various affixes with 
which we find it in combination was appended to it. To such syllables, which 
we call roots, we everywhere arrive by pushing our analytical process to the 
utmost, and these we believe to be the germs out of which language has actu-> 
ally grown. In other words, the Indo-European languages began with an 
original monosyllabic stage. From monosyllabic roots, by processes not difTer- 
iug in nature from those which are still in operation, has been developed the 
marvellous and richly vai-ied structure of our modern speech. TMs is a truth, 
the recognition of which has been reached, almost with unanimity, by students 
of language ; the objections which are urged against it by the few who refuse 
it their belief are founded in misapprehension and prejudice, and are of no 
avail. 

The Indo-European roots are of two classes : roots of position, demonstra- 
tive or pronominal roots, and roots of quality, pi'edicative or verbal roots. The 
former form chiefly pronouns and prepositions ; the latter, verbs and nouns. 
Pronominal roots denote the relations of things to the speaker as regards place ; 
their fundamental distinction is between the this and the tJiat, the nearer and 
the remoter object. They are of the simplest phonetic form, genei'ally a sim- 
ple consonant with a following vowel, composing an open syllable, and they 
are but few in number. The verbal roots are more numerous, counting by 
hundreds, and they are of every variety of form, from a simple vowel to a 
vowel both preceded and followed by one or more consonants. Instances are : 
i and gd, denoting simple motion ; ak, swift motion ; std, standing ; vas, stay- 
ing ; sad, sitting; ^?«(:/, walking; vart, turning; pat, flying; ad, eating; pa, 
drinking; vid, seeing; vak, speaking; da, giving; garhh, grasping; dik, 
pointing out; hhar, bearing; kar, making; bandh, binding; hhd, shining; 
bhu, growing, &c., «Scc. They represent each its own meaning in its naked- 
ness of all limitations or applications, in a state of indeterminateness from 
which it is equally ready to take on the semblance of verb, substantive, or 
adjective. 

The first beginnings of polysyllabism were made by compounding together 
roots of the two classes. Thus, the addition to the root vdk, "speaking," of 
the pronominal elements mi, si, ti, produced combinations to which usage as- 
signed the meaning "I speak, thou speakest, he speaks," laying in them the 
same idea of predication which we put into the ambiguous word love, when we 
say " I love." Other pronominal elements, modified or combined to express 



108 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 



duality and plurality, formed the other numbers of this simple verbal tense. 
The prefixion of an augment, an adverbial preiix, jjointing to a "then" or 
" there" as one of the conditions of the action, gave a past tense ; reduplica- 
tion, symbolizing the completion of the action, produced a perfect. The future 
and the moods, subjunctive and optative, Avere chiefly formed by composition 
•with the developed forms of other roots, ^ signifying "to be" and " to desire." 
Expansions of the verbal scheme, down to such late fonnations as the Germanic 
preterit (I lovc-d =z I love-did J and the llomanic future [faimcr-ai =: j'ai a 
aimer, " I have to love,") arc very numerous and various. The same root of 
action or quality, by the addition of other affixes, in part of pronominal origin, 
in part derived from other verbal roots, had its iudefiniteness limited to expres- 
sion of the person or thing possessing the quality or exerting or suffering the 
action, or of the act or quality itself; and the forms so created became the basis 
of still further modification and combination. Thus arose nouns, substantive 
and adjective ; for the two classes are originally and in idea but one. Things 
were named as the possessors of qualities or acts, not in the way of definition 
or complete description, but by seizing on some notable characteristic, and 
making it stand as representative of the rest. Nouns were provided with case- 
terminations ; these varied the themes to which they were appended, as to num- 
ber, whether singidar, dual, or plural ; as to gender, whether male, female, or 
neither of the two, (and this, as already noticed, upon an ideal scheme of classi- 
fication ;) and as to case, or kind of relation sustained to the action of the sen- 
tence, whether as subject, direct object, or indirect object, with implication of 
the relations which we express by the use of the prepositions to, in, with, from, 
for, and of. Eight such cases were possessed by the primitive language ; the 
Anglo-Saxon retained five of them ; we have saved but one of the oblique 
cases, the genitive, (our " possessive.") Prepositions, adverbial prefixes to the 
verb, of mixal pronominal and verbal origin, were from a very early time im- 
portant aids in directing and limiting the action expressed by the verb ; these 
only later, and by degrees, detached themselves from the verb, and came to 
belong to the noun, assuming the office of its disappearing case-endings. The 
article is the part of speech of most modern origin, the definite article growing 
out of the demonstrative pronoun, the indefinite out of the numeral one. 

At what rate these processes of growth went on at the beginning, how rapid 
was the development out of monosyllabic barrenness into the wealth and fer- 
tility of inflective speech, we can never hope to know. The conditions of that 
ancient period, and the degree in which they could quicken the now sluggish 
processes of word-combination and formation, are beyond our ken. We know 
only that, before the separation of the Indo-European tribe into the branches 
Avhich later became the nations of Europe and southwestern Asia, so much of 
this linguistic development had taken place that its traces remain uneffaced, 
even to the present day, in the languages of them all ; and, also, that the work 
was accomplished hundreds of years, if not thousands, before the light of re- 
corded history breaks upon the very oldest member of the family. 



Much of what has been shown to be true of the history of Indo-European 
language is true also of that of other divisions of the human race. All the 
varied forms of speech which fill the earth have grown into their present 
shape by development out of such simple elements as we have called roots; 
roots, too, have been everywhere of the same two classes, pronominal and ver- 
bal, and the earliest forms have beeti produced especially by the combination 
of the two. Linguistic families are made up of those languages which have 
recognizably descended, in the ordinary course of linguistic tradition, from a 
common ancestor. But these great families are found to differ from one 
another, not only in their material, but also in their management of it ; in their 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 109 

apprenension of the grammatical relations to be expressed by the combination 
of elements, and in the general way in -which they apply their resources to tlie 
expression of these relations. Indo-European languages arc what is generally 
called " inflective." By this is meant, that they show a pcc;iliar aptitude in 
closely combining the radical and formal elements, forgetting their separate 
individuality, and accepting the compound as integral sign cf the thing indi- 
cated ; submitting it then, as a whole, to the altering processes of linguistic 
growth. This tendency shows itself very differently in different constituents 
of the language : in untruthfulhj, for example, the four elements are held in- 
dependently apart ; while in sing, sang, sung, song, inflection has reached its 
extreme result, substituting an, internal variation for original aggregation. The 
value of this distinction Avill appear more clearly as we go on to consider the 
characteristics of the other great families. We will take them up in an order 
partly geographical, partly based upon their relative importance. 

The second family is the Semitic, or Shemitic, so called because the descent 
of most of the nations speaking its languages is traced in the Bible to Shem. 
Its principal branches are : 1. The northern, Syriac or Aramaic. 2. The 
central, Hebrew and Phenician. 3. The southern, Arabic, with its outliers in 
Eastern Africa, the languages of Abyssinia. It is a strongly marked group, 
and, though occupying but a narrow territory, is of prime consequence, from 
the conspicuous part which the race speaking it has played in the history of 
the world. In the great empires of Mesopotamia the Semitic race first rose to 
high importance; then in the commercial and civilizing activity of the Phe- 
nicians, whose colony, Carthage, long disputed the dominion of the world with 
Rome. Meantime, the politically almost insignificant little people of the 
Hebrews were producing a religion and religious literature, Avhich, made uni- 
versal by Christ, were to become the mightiest elements in history. Finally, 
in the Mohammedan uprising, the third branch of the race advanced suddenly 
to a leading place, and for a while threatened even to reduce to vassalage the 
Indo-European nations ; and it is still a conquering and civilizing power in 
parts of Asia and Africa. 

The Semitic type of language is also inflective, like the Indo-European, but 
not in such a way as implies any historical connexion between the two. The 
Semitic tongues are in many respects of a more strange and isolated character 
than any others known. Their most fundamental peculiarity is the triliterality 
of their roots, every Semitic verbal root containing just three consono.nts. 
And it is composed only of consonants : their vocalization is almost solely a 
means of grammatical flexion. Thus, q-t-l is a root conveying the idea of 
"killing;" then qatala means "he killed;" qvtila, "he was killed;" vqtul, 
"kill;" qtitil, "killing;" iqtal, "causing to kill;" qatl, "murder;" qitl, 
"enemy;" qutl, "murderous;" and so on. Prefixes and suflixes are also used, 
but to only a limited extent ; there is little left for them to do ; the formation 
of derivative from derivative, by accumulation of affixes, is almost totally un- 
known. This significant vocalization is, to our knowledge, an ultimate fact in 
Semitic speech in all its forms, as is the radical triliterality; but it seems im- 
possible to regard the latter, especially, as absolutely original ; and many at- 
tempts are made, with but indifferent success as yet, to reduce the roots to a 
simpler and less Procrustean form, out of which they should be a development. 
The different languages are of very near relationship, like German, Dutch, and 
Swedish, rather than like German, French, and llussian, for instance. Nor 
have they varied in the coui-se of their i'ecorded history to anything like the 
same extent with the Indo-European languages. Everything in Semitic speech 
wears an aspect of peculiar rigidity. 

The Semitic verb is strikingly unlike ours in its apprehension of the element 
of time. It distinguishes only two tenses, whose chief distinction is that of 
complete and incomplete action : each may be, in different circumstances, either 



110 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

past, present, or future. Of wcaltli of modal forms there is but little ; distinc- 
tions of the action of transitive, causal, intensive, iterative, reflexive, and the 
like, by so-called conjugations, arc multiplied instead. In their nouns, the 
Semites distinguish two genders, masculine and feminine, and throe numbers ; 
but cases are almost wanting, only the Arabic separating nominative, genitive, 
and accusative. The substantive verb is mostly wanting. The language is 
poor in particles and connectives ; sentences are strung together, not interwoven 
into a period. The characteristic stifihess is also shown in the development of 
signification. Words applied to intellectual and moral uses remain metaphors ; 
the figure shows through, and cannot be lost sight of. Semitic speech, then, is 
rather pictorial, forcible, vivid, than adapted to calm and reasoning philosophy. 
The next family of languages is one of much greater extent andvariety. It 
covers the whole northern portion of the eastern continent, with most of Central 
Asia, and parts of both Asia and Europe lying further south. We will call it 
the Scythian family ; it is known also by several other names, as Ural-Altaic, 
Tataric, Mongolian, Turanian. It is divided into five principal branches : 1. 
The Ugrian, or Finno-IIungarian, which is chiefly European in situation, in- 
cluding the languages of the Lapps, the Finns, and the Hungarians, with their 
congeners in the Russian territories, on both sides of the Ural. 2. The Samoi- 
edic, in Siberia, of small consequence. 3. The Turkish, or Tataric, spoken by 
races avIio have played some conspicuous part in modern history, especially in 
the dismemberment of the Mohammedan empire : its subdivisions are numerous, 
and extend from Turkey in Europe to the lower Lena, in Northern SiTjeria. 4. 
The Jlongoliau, the language of a people who in the 13th century overwhelmed 
nearly all the monarchies of Europe, and established for a brief period an em- 
pire the widest the world has ever seen : the Mongols now live in insignificance 
under Chinese domination. 5. The Tungusic, in the extreme east, having for 
its principal branch the Manchu, spoken by the present ruling dynasty and 
tribe in China. 

The Scythian races have played but a subordinate part in human affairs. 
War and devastation have been their chief trade : they have shown no aptitude 
for advancing civilization, and but little for appropriating it. No written mon- 
uments of their languages carry us back to a past at all remote. But it is 
claimed of late by students of the Assyrian and Babylonian inscriptions, that 
one of their languages is a Scythian dialect, of the Einno-Huugarian bi'anch, 
and even that those who spoke it were the founders of the civilization of that 
region. If this is established as true, it will greatly modify the aspect of an- 
cient ethnological history. 

The linguistic tie M'hich binds together the branches of this great family is 
but a weak one, much less unequivocal than in the other families we have noted. 
There is less correspondence between them in linguistic material and forms ; 
either their separation is very remote, or they have had a peculiarly mobile and 
alterable structure. Their chief resemblances are of morphological character ; 
they are all alike "agglutinative;" the combinations by which their words are 
formed are of a loose nature ; the root or theme is held apart from the suffixes, 
and these from one another, with a distinctive consciousness of their separate 
individuality. All formative elements follow the root to which they are attached ; 
prefixes are unused ; the root, which is monosyllabic, remaining pure and un- 
changed, whatever accretions it may receive. It, however, usually affects the 
suffixes, in a manner which constitutes one of the striking phonetic peculiarities 
of the family. The vowels are divided into two classes, heavy and light, and 
only vowels of the same class are allowed to occur Avithin the limits of the same 
word ; hence, the vowels of all suffixes are assimilated to that of the root. Thus, 
in Turkish, from hlihu comes haba-lar-um-dan, "from our fiithers ;" while from 
dedeh comes dede-ler-in-den, " from their grandfathers." This is usually called 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. HI 

the "law of harmonic sequence of vowels." Varieties atid irregularities of 
conjugation and decleusiou are almost wholly wanting in Scythian grammar. 

The rank of the Scythian languages in the general scale of human speech, 
notwithstanding their euphonious structftre and great wealth of forms in certain 
departments, is but an inferior one. Those of the western or European branch 
are decidedly the noblest, and they diminish in value eastward, the Tungusic 
being the poorest of all. 

There are those who would give the Scythian family a yet wider extension, 
even making it include most of the other Asiatic tongues, with those of the 
islands. Such sweeping classification, in the present state of our knowledge, 
has no scientific value, and is even opposed to the plainest evidences of lin- 
guistic structure and material. One group, that of the Tamulic or Dravidian 
dialects of Southern India, is most confidently, and with most plausibility, claimed 
as Scythian, and may probably yet be proved such. 

China and Farther India are occupied by races whose languages form a sin- 
gle class. Their distinction is that they are monosyllabic ; they have never 
grown out of that original stage in which, as we have seen, Indo-European 
speech also had its beginning. Their words are still roots, of indeterminate 
logical form ; they are made parts of speech only by the consenting apprehen- 
sion of speaker and hearer, guided by their order and by the general require 
ments of the sense. But while the difi'erent languages of the class agree in 
general morphological character, they show great diversity in material, and the 
nature and degree of their relationship is very obscure. The' Chinese is infi- 
nitely the most important among them. Its abundant literature goes back even 
into the second thousand years before Christ. It has only about 450 different 
phonetic combinations in its vocabulary ; which, however, by change in the 
tone of utterance, are made into rather more than twice that number of distinct 
words. Yet this scanty apparatus, by the power Avhich the mind has over its 
instrument, has been the means of expression of far higher, profounder, and 
more varied thought, than the majority of highly organized dialects spoken* 
among men. China has been the mother of culture to the races lying south, 
east, and west of her terrilory : the rest of the world she has affected mainly 
through the products of h*' ingenuity and industry. 

Those who speak the Malay-Polynesian languages fill all the islands, from 
the coast of Asia southward and eastward, from Madagascar to the Sandwich 
group, from New Zealand to Formosa. Only the present spoken dialects are 
known, and most of those but very imperfectly, s(» that their groupings and 
degrees of relationship are little understood : there may prove t6 be more than 
one distinct family among them. Their phonetic form is of the simplest kind. 
Their roots are prevailingly dissyllabic in form, and of nominal rather than ver- 
bal meaning. Reduplication is a common mode of their development ; the rest 
is accomplished more by prefixes than suffixes. Anything that can properly 
be called a verbal form is hardly to be found in most of the dialects ; mood, 
tense, number, gender, case, are wanting. 

The oldest dated monuments of ancient culture, the oldest written records, 
are found in the valley of the Nile. The earliest form of Egyptian speech is 
preserved on tables of stone and rolls of papyrus held by dead hands ; a later, 
the Coptic, has a Christian literaft.ure of the first centuries after Christ, but the 
Coptic also has been extinct now for more than two centuries. It was of the 
simplest structure ; its monosyllabic roots had value as verbs and a5 nouns, 
and only primary derivatives were formed from them ; nor were its suffixes, 
for the most part, more closely attached than those of the Scythian family. 
In some of its constructions it was as bald as the Chinese, and even more am- 
biguous. It agrees with the Indo-European and Semitic languages in distin- 
guishing gender in its forms ; no other human languages do this. There are 
apparent signs of relationship between Egyptian and Semitic which lead many 



112 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

scholars to entertaifl the confident opinion that the two descend from a com- 
mon ancestor; this, ho.wcver, is as yet by no means to be regarded as certain. 
Many of the tongnes of Northern Africa, and the Uottentot and Bushman, in 
South Africa, are also asserted to exhibit signs of an ultimate connexion with 
Egyptian. Excepting those dialects which are cither clearly Semitic, or 
claimed to be of kindred with Semitic or Egyptian, Africa is filled with a 
great variety of tongues, forming a distinct family. They are, in a certain 
way, rich in forms, and have some striking and peculiar traits. The use of 
preformativcs characterizes them ; a root never appears without a prefix of 
some kind, and the prefixes arc varied to accord with that of the dominant 
word in the sentence, producing a kind of syntactical alliteration. 

There remains for consideration, of the great families of human speech, only 
that one which occupies the American continent. It is too vast and varied to 
be dealt with here in any detail. Isolation of communities and the consequent 
indefinite separation into dialects have been carried in America to an extreme. 
Moreover, there is a peculiar changeableness of material, hard to explain and 
account for, which causes that two branches of a tribe which have been sep- 
arated but a brief time speak languages which are mutually unintelligible, 
and of Avhich it is even hard to trace the relationship. But it is believed that 
a fundamental unity lies at the base of all the infinite variety of American 
dialects, from the Arctic Circle to Cape Horn ; whatever their differences of 
material, there is a single type or plan on which their forms are developed and 
their constructions made. It is called the incorporative, or polysynthetic. It 
tends to the aggregation of the parts of the sentence into one great Avord ; to 
the substitution of an intricate compound for the johrase with its separated and 
balanced numbers. 

Xo linguitttic evidence of any real value has yet been adduced going to show 
the afiinity of American Avith Asiatic language, nor has the time yet come for 
a fruitful discussion of the question. To make a bare and immediate compari- 
son 01 the modern dialects of the two continents is altogether futile. When 
the comparative philology of the separate families is fully worked out, from 
the collation and analysis of all attainable mater^ in each, if we shall find 
ourselves in a position to judge and decide the quRtion of Asiatic derivation, 
we shall have reason to rejoice at it. What we have to do at present is sim- 
ply to learn all that we possibly can about the aboriginal languages of this 
continent ; our national honor and duty are peculiarly concerned in the Avork, 
tOAvard Avliich, Avith too ranch reason, European scholars accuse us of indifier- 
ence and inefiiciency. The Smithsonian Institution has recently taken up the 
subject, under special advantages and Avith laudable zeal, and all Americans 
should countenance and assist its efforts by every means in their power. 

Before closing this cursory and imperfect revicAv of the great families of hu- 
man language, Ave should glance at one or tAvo isolated languages or groups, 
hitherto unclassified. One of the most notCAvorthy is the Basque, spoken on 
the borders of France and Spain by the representatives of the ancient Iberi- 
ans, and perhaps the scanty relic of a race earlier than the irruptions of the 
Scythian and Indo-European tribes. Another is the Etruscan, of Italy, saA'ed 
in scanty inscriptions, Avhich off'er an unsolved and probably insoluble problem 
to the linguistic student. In the Caucasian mountains, again, appears a little 
knot of idioms Avhich have defied the efforts of scholars to connect them Avith 
other knoAvn forms of speech. Each family has, as may be seen even from 
our hasty sketch, its OAvn peculiar characteristics, Avhich distinguish it from 
every other. By such sAveeping classifications of them as iuto monosyllabic 
and polysyllabic, into isolating, agglutinative, and inflectional, or the like, little 
or nothing is gained. True classification must be founded on a consideration 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 113 

of the whole complicate structure of the languages classified ; it must, above 
all, be historical, holding together, and apart from others, those groups which 
give evidence of genetic derivation from a common original. 



On reviewing this division of the families of language, any one will be struck 
by its non-agreement Avith the divisions based on physical characteristics. This 
brings up the important question as to the comparative value of linguistic and 
physical evidence of race. A reconciliation of their seeming discordance must 
be sought and finally found, for the naturalist and linguist are both trying to 
work out the same problem — the actual genealogical history of human races — 
and they cannot disregard each other's results. Their harmonious agreement 
can only be the result of the greatly advanced and perfected methods and con- 
clusions of both. Nothing more can be attempted here than to note certain 
general considerations bearing upon the subject. 

In the first place, language is no certain evidence of descent. As was shown 
in the first lecture, language is not inherited, but learned, and often from 
teachers of other blood than the learner. Nor does mixture of language prove 
mixture of race. The Latin part of our vocabulary was brought us by men of 
• Germanic descent, who learned it from Celts and Germans, and they from a 
mixed mass of Italians. These defects of linguistic evidence have always to 
be borne in mind by those who are drawing conclusions in linguistic ethnology. 
But their eftect must not be exaggerated ; nor must it be overlooked that physi- 
cal evidence has quite as important defects. The kind and amount of modifi- 
cation which external circumstances can introduce into a race-type is as yet 
undetermined. Many eminent naturalists are not unwilling to allow that all 
existing differences among men may be the effect of processes of variation, and that 
the hypothesis of different origins is at least unnecessary. Hence, as a race 
may change its language, and not its physical type, it may also do the con- 
trary. Language may retain traces of mixture uudiscoverable otherwise. Lan- 
guage may more readily and surely than physiology distinguish mixed from 
transitional types. In many respects linguistic evidence has a greatly superior 
practical value ; differences of language are much the more easily apprehended, 
described, and recorded. Individual diff'erences, often obscuring race-diff'erences 
of a physical charactei , disappear in language. Testimony coming down from 
remote times is much more accessible and authenticable in language. Discord 
between the two, or question as to relative rank, there is none, or ought to be 
none. Both are equally legitimate and necessary modes of approaching the 
solution of the same difficult and, in its details, insoluble problem, man's origin 
and history. Each has its notable limitations, and needs all the aid it can get 
from the other and from recorded history to supply its defects and control its 
conclusions. But the part which language has to perform in constructing the 
ethnological history of the race must be much the greater. In laying down 
grand outlines, in settling ultimate questions, the authority of physiology may 
be superior ; but the filling up of details, and the conversion of a barren classi- 
fication into a history, must be mainly accomplished by linguistic science. 

Another important question is, what has the study of language to say re- 
specting the unity of the human race 1 This question can already be pretty 
confidently answered, but the answer must be a negative one only. Linguistic 
science can never hope to give any authoritative decision upon the subject. To 
show that it can never pretend to prove the ultimate variety of human races is 
very easy. It regards language as something which has grown by degrees out 
of scanty rudiments. It cannot assume that these rudiments were produced 
by any other agency than that Avhich made their after combinations. It cannot 
say how long a time may have been occupied in the formation of roots, or how 
long the monosyllabic stage may have lasted ; and it must confess it altogether 
8 s 



114 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

possible that an original human race ghould have separated into tribes before 
the formation of any language so distinctly developed, and of such fixed forms, 
as should leave traceable fragments in the later dialects of the sundered por- 
tions. x\.moug all the varieties of human speech there are no differences which 
are not fully explainable upon the hypothesis of unity of descent. 

That the linguistic student also cannot bear positive testimony in favor of 
such descent is equally demonstrable, although not by so direct an argument. 
There is here no theoretic impediment in the way, but a practical one. It might 
be hoped that traces of an original unity would be discoverable in all parts of 
human language ; only examination could show that such is not the case. But 
investigation, however incomplete, has already gone far enough to leave no 
reasonable expectation of making the discovery. 

The processes of linguistic change alter the constituent parts of language in 
every manner and to every degree, producing not only utter difference between 
words which were originally one, but also apparent correspondence between 
those which are radically unconnected. There are no two languages on the 
face of the earth between which a diligent search may not bring to light resem- 
blances which are easily proved by a little historical study to be no signs of rela- 
tionship, but only the result of accident. Now, the more remote the time of sepa- 
ration of two related languages, the more numerous will be their differences, the 
more scanty their resemblances ; hence, the more ambiguous will be the indica- 
tions of their connexion ; until finally a point is reached where it is impossible 
to decide whether apparent coincidences which we discover are genuine, or only 
accidental, and evidence of nothing; and, in the comparison of languages, that 
point is actually reached. When we come to hold together the forms of speech 
belonging to different families, the evidence tails us. It is no longer of force to 
prove anything to our satisfaction. The families are composed of such lan- 
t^-uao-es as can be seen to have grown together out of the radical stage. If there 
is community between them, it must lie in their roots alone ; and to give the 
comparison this form is virtually to abandon it as hopeless. To trace out the 
roots of any family, in their ultimate form and primitive signification, is a task 
of the very gravest difficulty. By the help of the great variety and an- 
tiquity of its dialects, and especially by the Sanscrit, the task can be somewhat 
satisfactorily accomplished for the Indo-European tongue; but the Semitic 
roots, as already explained, are of the most perplexingly developed form. Radi- 
cal correspondences among the great branches of the Scythian family are hardly 
sufficient to prove the ultimate relationship of those branches ; and to hope that, 
in the blind confusion of Malay, African, and American dialects," linguistic 
analysis will ever arrive at a confident recognition of their primitive germs, is 
altogether futile. Accidental correspondences are, if anything, more likely to ap- 
pear among roots than in the forms of developed speech. Authorities arc much 
divided upon the question whether the Indo-European and Semitic families are 
proved connected, with a decided preponderance of the best and safest opinions 
on the negative side. If it may possibly be hoped that their connexion will 
yet be established, with the help of evidence coming from outside of language, 
the same hope cannot be entertained as to the connexion of either of these with 
any other family, and yet less as to the inter-connexion of all the families. 

We come, finally, to consider the origin of language. We may claim that 
the problem has been greatly simplified by what has already been proved as to 
the history of speech. Did we find the latter everywhere and always a com- 
pletely developed and complicated apparatus, we might be tempted to despair of 
explaining its origin otherwise than by the simple hypothesis of a miraculous 
agency. But we have seen that the wealth of the noblest tongues comes by 
slow accumulation from an early poverty. We have only to satisfy ourselves how 
men should have become possessed, at first, of the scanty and humble germs of 
language. And, in the first place, there is no reason for supposing them 



PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 115 

generated by any otlier- agency tlian that wliicli is active in their after combi- 
nation and development ; namely, by the conscious exertion of man's natural 
powers, by his use of the faculties conferred upon him for the satisfaction of the 
necessities implanted in him. In this way, and in no other, is language a di- 
vine gift. It is divine in the sense that man's nature, with all its capacities and 
acquirements, is a divine creation. It is human, in that it is a product of that 
nature, in its normal workings. 

It is highly important that we make clear to ourselves what is the directly 
mpelling force to the production of language. It is not any internal and 
necessary impulse to expression on the part of thought itself, although this is 
very often maintained ; it is the desire of communication. One man alone would 
never form a language. Two children could not grow up together without ac- 
quiring some means of exchange of thought. Language is not thought, nor 
thought language ; noris there a mysterious and indissoluble connexion between 
the two, so that we cannot conceive of the existence of the one apart from the 
other. But thought would be awkward, feeble, and indistinct, without the 
working apparatus afforded it in language. The mind, deprived of such an in- 
strument, would be, as it were, lamed and palsied. The possession of ideas, 
cognitions, reasonings, deductions, imaginings, hopes, cannot be denied to the 
deaf and dumb, even when untaught any substitute for spoken language ; nor, 
indeed, even to the lower animals, in greatly inferior and greatly varying degree. 
Thought is anterior to language and independent of it. It does not require ex- 
pression in order to be thought. The incalculable advantage Avhich it derives 
from its command of speech, though a necessary implication in the gift of 
speech to man, comes incidentally, growing out of that communication which 
man must and will have with his fellow. A word, then, is not a thought ; it 
is the sign of thought, arbitrarily selected and conventionally agreed upon. 
It is the fashion to cry down the use of the word conventional as applied to 
language ; but, rightly understood, it precisely expresses the fact. It does not 
imply the holding of a convention and formal discussion, but the acceptance and 
adoption into use, on the part of a community, of something proposed by an in- 
dividual ; and in no other way, as has been shown above, does anything in 
language originate; nor did it, back to the very beginning. Every root-syllable 
was first used in its peculiar sense by some one, and became language by the 
assent of others. 

These considerations relieve the remaining part of our problem of much of its 
difficulty. Under the outward impulse to communication, thought tends irre- 
sistibly toward expression: it will have expression, and, were it destitute of 
articulate speech, it would have sought and found other means — gestures, atti- 
tudes, looks, written signs, any or all of these. But the voice was the appointed 
and provided means of supplying this great want, and no race of men, accord- 
ingly, is found unprovided with articulate speech. It remains to inquire how 
men should have discovered what the voice was meant for, and have applied it 
to its proper use. Several theories have been proposed in explanation of this. 
One, the onomatopoetic, supposes that the first names of objects and acts were 
generated by imitation of the cries of animals and the noises of dead nature ; 
another, the interjectional, regards the natural sounds which we utter when in 
. a state of excited feeling, our exclamations, as the beginnings of speech ; another 
compares man's utterance with the ringing of natural substances when struck, 
and holds that man has an instinctive faculty for giving expression to the 
rational conceptions of his mind. The last of these is believed to be destitute 
of all value, as grounded in unsound theory, and supported by nothing in our 
experience or observation. The other tAvo are so far true that it must be granted 
that exclamations and imitated sounds helped men to realize that they had in 
their voices that which was capable of being applied to express the movements 
of their spirits. But the study of language brings to light no interjectional 



116 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 

roots ; and onomatopoctic ones, although sometimes met with, are rare, at least 
in tlie better knoAvu families of language, and in great part of late formation. 
Evidence does not show, and theory does not require, that the actual beginnings 
of speech should have been of either character. The process of root-making 
was in much the greatest part a free and arbitrary one ; it was, as we may with 
especial propriety call it, a tentative process, a devisal and experimental pro- 
posal of signs, to be thenceforth associated by a community with conceptions 
which pressed for representation. Objective and absolute connexion between 
sound and sense there was none, except in words of onomatopoctic formation ; 
of a subjective connexion, a giiiding analogy, we do catch occasional glimpses, 
or seem to catch them ; they are too subtle and evanescent to be believed in 
with confidence, nor have we ground for suspecting their wide occurrence. 
There is thus enough of obscurity, of uncertainty, resting upon the earliest pe- 
riod of linguistic growth ; but of mystery, hardly any ; the process is not beyond 
our ken, although its details are out of our knowledge. 

Of all animals, man is the only one that has proved himself capable of origi- 
nating a language. For this, the general reason, that man's endowments are 
vastly higher than those of the inferior races, is the best that can be given. 
When philosophers shall have determined precisely wherein lies man's supe- 
riority, they will at the same time have explained his exclusive possession of 
speech. If, however, it were necessary to say in what mode of action lay that 
deficiency of power in the lower animals which, more than any other, put lan- 
guage out of their reach, we should incline to maintain that it was the power of 
distinct reflection on the facts of consciousness ; of analyzing impressions, and 
setting their parts so clearly before the internal sense as to perceive that each 
is capable of a distinct sign. Many animals come so near to a capacity for lan- 
guage as to be able to understand and be directed by it, Avhen addressed to them 
by man ; nor is their condition without analogy with that of very young chil- 
dren,- whose power of comprehending language is developed much earlier and 
more rapidly than their power of employing it. It may well be questioned 
whether, as regards capacity for speech, the distance from the unimpressible 
oyster, for instance, to the intelligent dog, is not vastly greater than that from 
the dog to the lowest and least cultivable races of men. 



MEMOm OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 



BY M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT, 

ERPETUAL SECRETARY 0F THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A, ALEXANDER. 



To this Academy no species of scientific renown is alien; and if sucli men as 
la Perouse, d'Eutrecasteaux, Baudin, Diimont d'Urville, have disappeared 
from the stage of the world without having been numbered in its ranks, it was 
because an inauspicious destiny arrested their career. Their place here was 
already marked. To have obtained it would have been to them, next to the 
consciousness of duty fulfilled, the highest of gratifications. To you, gentle- 
men, the privilege of crowning their memorable labors by your suffrages would 
have been a subject of the most just self-congratulation. Those labors death, 
which has snatched away their authors, has not withdrawn from your domain. 
It is still grateful to you to extol them, and your committee has concurred with 
me in thinking that I could prefer no better claim to your fiivorable attention 
than by attempting to retrace, on this occasion, the life of a colleague who knew 
how to obtain and to justify all your sympathies, and whose name invariably 
recalls those of the heroes of hydrography we have named, of whom he was, 
with better fortunes and not less daring, the companion, the rival, or the master. 

Charles-Fran Qois Beautemps-Beaupre was born August 6, 1766, at Neuville 
au Pont, a village situated one league north of Sainte Menehold, in that part 
of Champagne which now forms the department of the Marne. His father was 
an unpretending tiller of the soil, and the young Francois, who seemed destined 
to cultivate, in his turn, the rather prosaic fields of that worthy coimtry, passed 
his first years in youthful sports on the pleasant hills which, branching from 
the Argonne, agreeably diversify the banks of the Aisne. His constitution, 
naturally robust, and strengthened by country exercise, received on one occa- 
sion a severe shock. While heedlessly playing with the rope of the parochial 
bell he fell with violence, and sustained such injuries of the head as to make 
trepanning necessary. The operation was no doubt skilfully performed, for 
the young sufferer became, with advancing years, a man of tall stature, of a 
noble and expressive mien, and retained, for nearly eighty years, the use of the 
exalted faculties which won him a place in this assemblage. I have not been 
able to recover the name of the modest provincial surgeon to whom, under 
Providence, our colleague was indebted for life and intelligence, and who, per- 
haps, never knew the full value of the head he had been instrumental in re- 
storing. 

M. Beautemps-Beaupre passed, indeed, only the years of childhood at his 
native village. Among his relations Avas an eminent geographer, M. Jean Nico- 
las Buache, the head of a geographical establishment derived by collateral in- 
heritance from the family of Delisle — a family wholly devoted to science, and 
known, through more than a century, for its connexion with almost every pub- 
lication relating to geography, astronomy, and the marine. M. Buache, visit- 



118 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

ing Neuville au Pont about the year 1776, was struck with the intelligent coun- 
tenance of his young relative. He was pleased at the idea of associating with 
himself a docile intelligence which might be trained to the conduct of the patri- 
monial business, and readily induced the little Beaujjre to accompany him to 
Paris. Thus the latter found himself installed, at the age of ten years, in the 
midst of the hereditary traditii)ns of a house which had become, in some sort, 
the focus of geographical studies. He was charged Avith the arrangement and 
preservation of those charts, atlases, and globes with which we liave most of us 
been occupied at some period of our lives. To this labor, Avhich would have 
repelled the generality of young persons, he gave himself with unbounded de- 
votion. He lived among his dear maps, assorting, adjusting, studying them; 
hence he was not long in mastering all that was necessary for understanding 
them. His vocation stood revealed to him; nor, with such innate tastes, could 
his eventual accession to this Academy be a matter of doubt, provided that for 
him, also, the condition stipulated in the distich of La Fontaine should be 
realized : 

"Little fisli to large will grow, 
If God shall only life bestow." 

M. Buache, gratified at the manifestation of so happy a turn, afforded every 
facility in his power for its development. 

The attention of this learned geographer was by no means confined to the 
commerce of his establishment. He had assisted in the education of the three 
princes who became, successively, Louis XVI, Louis XVIII, and Charles X, 
and maintained with the first of these monarchs, himself a distinguished geog- 
rapher, relations of confidence founded on a similarity of tastes and studies. It 
is to be presumed that he contributed much towards shaj)ing the views of the 
excellent King in relation to the expedition of la Perouse, and being intrusted, 
jointly with M. Pleurieu, with the preparation of instructions for the voyage — 
instructions strongly impressed Avith the benevolent spirit of Louis XVI — it 
became necessary for him to execute in the short space of three months a nu- 
merous series of charts. Naturally he turned for assistance in this labor to his 
young coadjutor, with Avhose talent for this species of design he had been so 
much delighted ; and, quite as naturally, the youthful enthusiast, in Avhom 
there Avas much more than the material for a draughtsman, groAv enamored, 
as he proceeded, not only of the charts but of the expedition, and eagerly 
pressed to be alloAved to embark on one of the frigates. Happily for himself 
and for science, M. Buache decided that, at the age of eighteen, there was yet 
too much for him to learn to make it advisable that he should engage in such 
an enterprise, and thus prevented his taking part in that fatal expedition from 
which no one Avas destined ever to return. 

The young Beaupre had not, hoAvever, escaped the notice of M. de Fleurieu, 
and Avas transferred as engineer in 1785 from the department of the Marine, in 
which he had heretofore serA^ed under the orders of M. Buache, to that of the 
Controls, Avhere, in immediate subordination to M. de Fleurieu, he was required 
to assist in the execution of the charts of the Baltic KejHune. 

MeauAvhile the expedition commanded by la Perouse had sailed from Brest, 
August 1, 1785. After having traversed the coasts of the Pacific ocean in aU 
directions, and moored in the harbor of Botany Bay, it had again put to sea, 
March 10, 1788, in order to prosecute the route marked in its instructions. 
From that time nothing had been hdard of it, and apprehensions for its safety 
began to be entertaineil Avhich Avere unhappily too Avell founded. 

The National Assembly having petitioned the King to despatch armed ves- 
sels in search of the distinguished navigator, two new frigates, la Recherche 
and rExperance, Avere designated to sail, under the orders of Rear- Admiral 
Bruny d'Entrecastcaux, upon this laudable mission ; and this time M. Beau- 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPEE. 119 

temps-Bcauprd obtained the favor of accompanying the expedition. He Avas 
assigned, Jnly 31, 1791, under the tiile of first liydrographical engineer, to 
the frigate la Recherche, commanded by the admiral in person, and reported 
himself at Brest, Avhither he had repaired in company with M. de la Billardiere, 
the botanist of the expedition, and destined himself also to become a member 
of this Academy. 

The two vessels sailed September 29, 1791, at which time Beaupre was 
twenty-five years of age. By his labors during six years in the compilation 
of the Neptune of the Baltic sea, he had thus early become an experienced 
chartographer, and the expedition now departing oflered the happiest occasion 
for the application of his talents in this line ; for the admiral, being about to 
explore with great minuteness all the coasts where traces of la Perouse might 
be expected to be found, had received orders to determine at the same time their 
hydrography Avith all possible compactness. 

After having doubled the Cape of Good Hope, the expedition passed in 
sight of the isle of* Amsterdam, coasted at a distance the southern shores of 
New Holland, and came to anchor towards the southeast point of Van Die- 
men's Land, at the then desert entrance of the river on which now stands the 
city of HobarttoAvn. It next penetrated into the Pacific ocean, followed the 
western coast of New Caledonia and the northern of New Guinea, passed to 
the uorthAvest of Amboyna and Timoi', to the west of New Holland, explored 
m detail the sotitli coast of that vast region, and, after having thus made its 
entire circuit, again cast anchor, January 21, 1793, in the soiTth part of Van 
Diemen's Land. 

Having completed, during the finest month of the austral summer, import- 
ant hydrographical labors commenced the previous year, and particularly the 
survey of the straits of d'Entrec^astcaux, which separate the isle of Bruny from 
the main land, the expedition again sailed, Febrnar}^ 27, and passed anew into 
the wide Pacific. Directing its course towards all the points where la Perouse 
could be supposed to have touched or to have been driven, after his departure 
from Botany Bay five years before, the expedition visited Tongataboo, one of 
the Friendly islands, and once more shaped its course towards New Caledonia, 
which was now reached from the northwest. Some idea of the incidents and 
perils of these courses may be conveyed by a few passages of the admiral's 
narrative: "On the eve of our arrival at New Caledonia, April 17, 1793, it 
blew a hard gale ; the atmosphere was thick, but not so dark as to induce me 
to lose a night oft' thu Cape. I gave orders to proceed under easy sail. About 
three in the morning it grew very dark, and tko cries of numerous birds Avere 
heard near the frigate, an almost certain indication at that hour, of the neighbor- 
hood of land. Although day was not far oft', M. Merite, ofiicer of the Avatch, 
prudently decided to bring to, and scarcely had objects become distinguishable, 
Avhen a Ioav coast presented itself to \-iew ; an instant after it Avas discovered 
to be surrounded Avith breakers on AA'hich avb should certainly have struck but 
for the precaution just mentioned; for Ave had been making tAvo leagues an 
hour under topsails alone, closely reefed. This dangerous ledge was recon- 
noitred, and a special draught of it carefully executed. Its length from north 
to south is from nine to elcA'cn miles, and its breadth, east and Avest, sca'cu to 
eight. We saAV to the east of this reef tAvo small Avooded islands, Avith a third 
larger midAvay betAveen them : these Ave have named the Beaupre islu?ids.'"* 



* The claims of M. Beautemps-Beaupre to a distiuction of tbis kiud Avere iucicleutally 
recognized by the distinguished and lamented explorer. Sir John Franklin. Being on a visit 
to Palis, just before his departure on the expedition Avhich was destined to so fatal a result, 
he called on M. Beautemps-Beaupre, and, speaking of Van Diemen's Laud, of which Sir 
John had been goA'eriior, learned from the lips of our colleague that the latter had been the 
first explorer of the site on which noAV rises Hobarttown, the capital of the island. "How 



120 MEMOIR OF C. F. I'.EAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

When his name was thus conferred, M. Ueaulenips-Beaupre had been daily 
prosecuting his labors for more than twenty months under the eyes of the 
admiral and his olHcers, and the testimonial may, therefore, be regarded as the 
more deliberate and honorable. 

" The same day," continues the admiral, "at half after 1 o'clock, we descried 
New Caledonia, and in two hours were a mile distant from the reef on the eastern 
coast of this great island, which seemed to be bordered by it, as the western 
coast had been ascertained to be in 1792. * * * * As the entrance of 
the harbor of Balade, wjiere I proposcjd to come to anchor, was only marked by 
an interruption of the reef which borders the coast, we followed tliis reef closely 
in order not to miss the opening. We reached the pass by 2 o'clock, and a 
favorable tack gave us hopes of gaining the anchorage, when it was signalled 
that the other frigate, V Esperancc, had struck." 

Happily the imperilled vessel was safely extricated, and the two frigates finally 
cast anchor very nearly at tire spot where Captain Cook had done in 1774. 

" The naturalists of the expedition repaired, April 25, to the neighboring 
mountains, and i\I. Beaupre ascended with them in hopes of discovering the 
reefs with Avhich the channels of Balade are bestrown, and of fixing their position. 
The sea was discernible to the east, west, and north, and the isles of Balabra, 
Reconnaissance, and many other points which had been entered in the maps 
of 1792 were recognized. The positions of these were determined by M. 
Beaupre AA'ith reference to the observatory of Balade, with the view of con- 
necting the trigonometrical operations of this year with those of the preceding 
one. From the top of these mountains the shelf which borders the other side 
of New Caledonia was perceived, and an interruption distinguished, which, after 
renewed observations, seemed to correspond with that discovered the previous 
year in visiting the western coast." 

The expedition left the roads of Balade May 9, 1793, and soon after encoun- 
tered the dangerous reefs which stretch to the N W. of New Caledonia ; these 
having been examined but imperfectly by Cook, have received the name of the 
reefs of d' Enh-ecasteaux. Twice, at the break of day, were the ships of the 
last-named navigator found to have so closely approached this barrier, that 
there was barely room for the evolution by which they were extricated. Direct- 
ing his course northeastwardly towards the island of Santa Cruz, the admii'al 
gave the name of la Recherche to an island in the vicinity of the former, whose 
latitude and longitude were determined to be, within but a few minutes, 11° 40' 
south, and 164° 25' east. During the numerous courses made by the vessels 
in the archipelago of Santa Oi.iz, M. Beaiitemps-Beaupre, favored by fine 
weather, succeeded in fixing the position of a multitude of points, as well on 
the principal island as its accessories. 

According to the method which he had adopted for making his observations, 
and M'hich has since become of general use, he first made at each station a 
draught of the coast, in which he indicated by letters or numbers not only the 
most remarkable objects, but wrote the measures of the angles observed, the 
bearings of the points with respect to one another, the estimate of distances, &c. 
The draughts, on which were to be written the results of the obser\'ations made 

mucb do I icf^ret," exclaimed Sir Jolin, " tliat I was ignorant of the circumstance ! I should 
have bestowed your name on the finest portion of the city." 

Captain Fhnders, who, in I801-1SU3, conducted an expedition "for the purpose of com- 
pleting the discovery of that vast country" to which he gave the name of Terra Australis, 
(afterwards changed to Australia,) and who published an account of his voj'age in two 4to. 
volumes, accompanied by an atlas, bears testinion^', as well in notes engraved upon the maps 
as in passages of the text, to the accuracy of the labors of our colleague. In the introduction 
to the work it is said: "The charts of the baj's, ports, and arms of the sea at the southeast 
end of Van Diemen's Land, constructed in this expedition by M. Beautemps-Beaupr6 and 
assistants, appear to combine scientific accuracy and minuteness of detail, with an uncom- 
mon degree of neatness in the execution. They contain some of the finest specimens of 
marine surveying, perhaps, ever made in a new country." 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 121 

on board, could not be taken witb too much rapidity, for it was necessary that 
the ship should not materially change its place during the time of the opera- 
tion. The principal operations which serve as a foundation for the charts con- 
structed by M. Beaupre are such as were executed either at midday, or simul- 
taneously with the observations of horary angles ; that is to say, at such times 
of each day as the position of the vessel was determined by astronomical ob- 
servations and the chronometer. On these occasions he assembled around him 
the greatest possible number of observers, and he had found or formed a great 
many among the officers of the frigate. Just one minute before taking the 
observations he made a sketch of the coast under view, beginning with those 
parts of it which, being most remote, would undergo least change of outline by 
reason of the movement of the ship ; then, precisely at the moment when the 
astronomical observations were taken, he measured the angular distance be- 
tween the object which he had designated to his assistants as the point of de- 
parture and one of the remarkable places of the coast, while each of the as- 
sistants measured the angular distance of the same point of departure from one 
of the other objects embraced in the survey. The results of these simultaneous 
observations were afterwards transferred to the sketch which had been made 
of the outline of the land. All the angular measures were taken with Bordd's 
repeating circle. 

When the suu was not too high above the horizon, one of the observers 
measured the distance of that body from one of the remarkable points of the 
coast ; by means of the heights of the suu observed at the same moment by 
M. de Rossel, and from the distance measured, M. Beaupre obtained the astro- 
nomical bearing of that point, whence he deduced the bearing of all the points 
between which angles had been taken. 

Two compasses were always directed, during the observations, on the place 
chosen as a point of departure for the angles, and the mean of the bearings 
given by those instruments was transcribed in the collection of notes, and this 
whether an astronomical bearing had been obtained or not. In the first case the 
magnetic indication served to show the variation of the needle, and in the second 
to supply, though imperfectly, the absence of an astronomical observation. If 
circumstances, which, however, occurred but rarely, prevented the co-operation 
of a sufficient number of observers to take simultaneously the angles of all the 
remarkable points necessary to be determined, M. Beaupre arranged several 
circles of retiection, so that each observer might promptly take two or three 
angles, without being obliged to write them on the spot; and these observations, 
made with a rapidity proportionate to the expertness of the observer, were 
found to agree almost as exactly as those made simultaneously. 

M. Beaupre, who drew the chart with as much facility as exactness, found a 
marked advantage in embodying the results observed as promptly as possible, 
for he had then all the circumstances of the observations present to his mind. 
It was not seldom that he was enabled in this way to detest and remedy inad- 
vertencies committed in Avriting the angles measured. The precision of his 
graphic constructions ever rendered it practicable for him to verify, and some- 
times to correct, with great probability, the positions of the ship, determined 
* several times a day by astronomical observations, combined with the indica- 
tions of chronometers and the estimate of courses. 

The means of verification resulted, in part, from the fact that the observa- 
tions of each station gave him a series of visual lines, springing essentially from 
the same point, and forming known angles, whether Avith one another or with 
the astronomic meridian, or at least with the magnetic meridian, itself deter- 
mined by an observation made at nearly the same time. They resulted, more- 
over, from the circumstance that all the visual lines directed from diifcrent stations 
on the same object, such as a cape or a mountain, must, on the draught, intersect 
one another at the representation of that object. When, at the first trial, these did 



122 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

not meet, a series of approximations tending to modify in au admissible degree 
the position of tlie ship at the different stations sufficed to establish the neces- 
sary junction. The approximations in question might be made with still more 
rigor by calculation, and one of our most scientific hydrographers, IM. de Tcssan, 
has even shown that the method of least sqiiares is here applicable;* but M. 
Bcaupre adhered generally to the graphic method, which he employed with as 
much sagacity as precision. 

The application of this rigorous method fixes the position of the principal 
points of the chart about to be constructed, as the tops of mountains, capes, &c. 
The details, such as the outline of coasts, course of rivers, &c., are afterwards 
described with such degree of precision as time permits ; and when a sojourn 
of some duration i-cuders it practicable to add the soundings taken at sea, as 
was the case in regard to the straits of d'Entrecasteaux and other parts of the 
coasts of Van Diemen's Land, the positions of the points of sounding are fixed 
by reference to the principal points determined by the bearings, in accordance 
with the methods which will be presently indicated when Ave arrive at the 
hydrographic surveys of the coasts of France. 

The bearings taken from the 19th to the 23d May, in the archipelago of Santa 
Ci'uz, enabled M. Beaupru to give a remarkable proof of his skill in applying 
these processes, Avhich were then new. Faithful to his method of constructing, 
day by day, the chart of those parts of coasts which he would not again see, he 
devoted the night of the 21st to describing the details of the south coast of the 
island of Santa Cruz ; that of the 22d was similarly occupied with the north 
coast; and, the ships sailing on the 23d for the Solomon islands, he applied 
himself,- as soon as the land was lost sight of, to the definitive reduction of his 
chart. This, like all the rest belonging to the voyage of d'Entrecasteaux, was 
constructed on a scale of three lines for one minute of the equator ; and as it 
presented, for the discussion of which we have been speaking, nearly all the 
cases to be met with in practice, M. Beaupre has caused it to be engraved in the 
19th plate of the atlas, with all his lines of construction, as au example of his 
manner of operating, and it is here that he has explained his method with de- 
tails at which Ave haA'C only been able to give a cursory glance. They may be 
seen in the appendix relative to this subject at the end of the first volume of 
the A'oyage of d'Entrecasteaux, an appendix Avhich has become the vade-?necu?}i, 
and, if 1 may so sjDeak, the catechism of the constructors of marine charts. 

In reducing to rule, and in practicing his method, M. Beaupre fulfilled the 
most cherished Avish of the scientific hydrographers, Avho, at the close of the 
eighteenth century, employed themselves Avith the means of giving to nautical 
science all the precision of Avhich it is susceptible. Borda, after having placed 
in the hands of navigators the repeating circle of which they still make 
use, had recommended its employment in preference to the compass, Avhich 
till then Avas exclusively relied on for surveys executed at sea. Flurieu had 
equally recommended astronomic surveys. For naturalizing these scientific 
processes in the practice of hydrography, it Avas requisite that some engineer of 
a peculiar aptitude should devote himself Avith energy and perseverance to the 
application of the ncAV instruments and rigorous geometric methods adapted to 
the accurate measurement of angles. M. Beauprd proved fully equal to this 
honorable mission, and, thanks to his unceasing efforts, the voyage of d'Entre- 
casteaux inaugurated the opening of a ncAv era — that of precise hydrography. 
Like all other branches of human knoAvledge, hydrography has been adAanced 
by degrees. After the invention of the compass, so far surpassed at a later 
stage by ^ew instruments, the discoveries of Christopher Columbus and of 
Vasco de Gama gave ideas a Avholly new direction. Subsequently the adveu- 



* See Voyage autour du Monde, par Ic frigate Venus, coinmandee par 
Thouars: Physique, par M. do Tessan, t. v., p. 233. 



M. Abel Dupetit 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE, 123 

turous circumnavigations of the Magellans, Mendanas, Drakes, Tasmans, and 
Dampiers, made known the principal outlines of the two oceans, but Avith very 
imperfect exactness, as may be perceived from a glance at the old globes which 
are still of frequent occurrence in Paris. That, according to the happy expres- 
sion of M. Yillemain, was the heroic age of the navigation of discovery ; the 
modern Argonauts went forth in their search for the golden fleece with an ardor 
little favorable to systematic exploration, and which yet did not prevent them 
from overlooking the rich auriferous deposits of California and Avistralia. 

Towards the middle of the eighteenth century, after Bufl'on had published his 
J^atural History, the taste for voyages was revived under a form even then 
much more scientific. In the course of a few years we see Byron, Carteret, 
Wallis, traverse the Pacific ocean, and make the tour of the world. Cook is 
sent to Tahiti to observe, June 3, 1769, the passage of Venus over the disc of 
the sun. He makes two other important voyages, and after having traversed 
the Pacific in all directions, and penetrated into the frozen regions of both poles, 
falls in 1779 beneath the weapons of the natives of the Sandwich islands. Cook 
remaiu.s the principal figure and characteristic of this period ; but had fate per- 
mitted the instructions given to la Perouse to have been completely carried 
out, the voyage of this last would, perhaps, have afforded the best example of 
what it was possible to accomplish with the hydrographic methods then in lise. 
These different enterprises made known almost all the lands and archipelagos 
with which the ocean is strown, and furnished charts which already presented 
their general form with a great degree of fidelity. 

Last come the hydrographic voyages of precision. If the expedition of 
d'Entrecasteaux offers the first example of them, the voyage of the Coquille, 
executed under the command and published under the direction of our distin- 
guished colleague. Captain Duperrey, must, perhaps, be regarded as the most 
perfect type of this class of enterprises. To the same class belong the almost 
too hazardous voyages of Sir John Ross among the ices of the antarctic pole, 
and those not less daring of M. Dumont d'Urville, 

The hydrographic study of the archipelago of Santa Cruz, which retained 
around M. Beautemps-Beaupre some of the most skilful officers of the frigate, 
did not so exclusively occupy the attention of Admiral d'Entrecasteaux and 
other chiefs of the expedition as to divert their attention from the main object 
of their mission, which was to seek for traces of la Perouse. They constantly 
communicated with the shores, questioned the natives, examined the objects in 
their possession, and observed, among other things, a piece of iron from the 
hoop of a cask, set as a hatchet ; but no one then suspected that there was here 
a vestige of the expedition of la Perouse. The admiral has minutely recorded 
the reasons why no importance was attached to the circumstance. 

Nevertheless the chart of the archipelago of Santa Cruz presents, in its SE. 
portion, an island on which by a rather singular chance the admiral bestowed 
the name of la Recherche, after that of his own frigate sent in search of la 
Perouse. "We took the bearing of this island, says M. Beautemps-Beaupre, 
for the first time from our point of station at 20 minutes after 9 o'clock, 19th 
May, at a great distance. At noon, the same day, we again took its bearing, 
and then lost sight of it." Situated at the southeast extremity of the archipel- 
ago of Meudaiia, this island has been in like manner seen and lost sight of by 
not a few other navigators in whose track it lay, and who little imagined that 
la Perouse and his companions had paid v/ith their lives for the honor of having 
previously discovered it. 

Thus two years earlier than d'Entrecasteaux, Captain Edwards, commanding 
the English frigate Tandora, had .discovered, August 13, 1791, this same island, 
which he had named IPitt island, and had sailed around its southern shore with- 
out suspecting that it concealed the remains of a world-renowned shipwreck. 
Thirty years later, in 1823, Captain Dupen-ey, among whose oflficers was M. 



124 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

Dumont d'Urville, passed in the corvette la Coquille, 2d and 3d August, at 
about halt' a degree to the W.SW. of the island. Strong eastwardly winds 
prevented him from approaching nearer, but he took numerous bearings which 
seryed to rectify the position of the island, and then obeyed without thought 
the wind which bore him away from it, having himself no reason for supposing 
that this obscure spot presented any trace of the expedition of la Perouse. 

Yet the veil was about to be withdrawn. Four years after, in December, 1827, 
and January, 1828, M. Dumont d'Urvillo was lying with the Astrolabe in the 
port of Hobarttowu, situated in those parts of Van Diemen's Land which MM. 
d'Entrecasteaux and Beautemps-Beaupre had surveyed with so much care while 
they were still desert. Here reports reached him, vague indeed, and even con- 
tradictory, respecting a surprising discovery made by Captain Dillon, com- 
manding an English vessel, engaged in commerce. This mariner, it was said, 
had acquired authentic information relative to the shipwreck of la Perouse, and 
had even brought aAvay the handle of a sword which he claimed to have belonged 
to that celebrated navigator. 

Notwithstanding the slight authority for these reports, M. Dumont d'Urville 
thought himself justified in modifying the route which his instructions traced 
for him. He touched, February 10, at Tikopia, where he found among the 
natives a lascar named Joe, a sailor and native of Calcutta, who was the same 
that had sold the sword-handle to Captain Dillon. This man, after a little 
hesitation, acknowledged that some years before he had gone to the Vanikoro 
isles, which are no other than the group of la Recherche, where he had seen 
many objects belonging to the vessels of la Perouse ; that he had been then 
told that two very aged whites were still alive, but he himself had not seen 
them. 

The next day, February 11, 1828, the Astrolabe sailed for the Vanikoro 
islands, situated, according to the natives, about forty leagues W.NW. from 
Tikopia. The vessel came to anchor, February 14, at the place of its 
destination, and remained till the 17th of March. M. Dumont d'Urville, being 
quite seriously indisposed, could not quit the corvette, Avhich, besides, was, in 
more than one respect, not considered in entire safety ; but, after having inter- 
rogated the natives, he despatched in succession several parties commanded by 
responsible officers, with whom he associated his faithful surgeon, M. Gaimard, 
whose recent death has been a new occasion of sorrow to the friends of science. 

The chain of reefs which, at a distance of two or three miles, forms an im- 
mense girdle around Vanikoro, closely approaches the southern coast near Paiou, 
in front of a place called Ambi. Here it is but a mile off, and it was here that, 
on a first visit, the native who preceded M. Jacquinot stopped his canoe in an 
opening between the breakers, and made a sign to the Frenchmen to look be- 
neath the water. There; at a depth of twelve or fifteen feet, were clearly 
distinguishable, scattered here and there, and imbedded in corals, anchors, 
cannons, bullets, and divers other objects, especially numerous sheets of lead ; 
the wood had entirely disappeared. The position of the anchors seemed to in- 
dicate that four of them had sunk with the ship, while two others had probably 
been let go. On a second visit M. Guilbert succeeded in withdrawing from the 
reefs the following objects : An anchor of about eighteen Imndred pounds weight, 
without a stock, much rusted and covered with a crust of corals apparently from 
one to two inches in thickness ; a cast cannon, likewise covered with corals, and 
so much oxydized that the metal readily yielded under the hammer ; a small 
swivel of brass and a blunderbuss of copper in much better preservation, one 
bearing on its trunnions 548 as its number, and 144 as its weight ; the other 
286 and 94 for its number and weight respectively, with no other marks ; a pig 
of lead and large sheet of the same metal, together with some fragments of por- 
celain. The remains of a kettle had been previously procured at Nama, a vil- 
lage of the coast. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 125 

The following is the amount of the information obtained from the natives : 
About forty years previous to 1828, (which would carry us back to 1788, the date 
of la Perouse's disappearance,) one morning, at the close of a very dark night, 
during which the wind blew with violence from the SE., the islanders suddenly de- 
scried on the southern coast, opposite the district of Tauema, an cnorraons pirogue, 
stranded upon the reefs. It was rapidly demolished by the waves, and so en- 
tirely disappeared that nothing was ever recovered from the wreck. Of the 
persons who manned it a few only succeeded in escaping in a boat and gained 
the shore. The following day, likewise in the morning, a second pirogue, 
similar to the first, was discovered on the rocks before Paiou ; where, in the 
lee of the island, and less racked by the wind and sea, stranded moreover on a 
level shelf of twelve or fifteen feet depth, it remained some time in its position 
without being destroyed. This, like the first, bore a white ensign. The 
strangers who manned it landed at Paiou, where they established themselves 
with those saved from the other ship, and immediately set about constructing 
a small vessel from the fragments of the ship which had not gone dovn. Their 
task was completed in six or seven moons, and, as most, of the savages averred, 
all the strangers left the island. A few, however, declared that two remained 
behind, but that these had not long survived. 

M. do Fromelin, who also visited these shores in 1828, on the corvette la 
Bayonnaisc, and who had doubtless heard of the discovery of the English Cap- 
tain Dillon, ascertained by examination the existence of the remains of the 
French frigate on the reefs of Vanikoro. 

It was a source of regret to M. Dumont d'Urville thathe had not been able, 
in 1828, to visit in person the place of the shipwreck ; hence, when on a last 
and memorable expedition he traversed anew the great ocean, he caused his 
ships, the Astrolabe and the Zclee, to lie to, 6th November, 1838, near the 
"eef of the southern shore of Vanikoro. Landing in a sea too rough to admit 
f stopping on the reef, he discovered a space cleared of trees, which appeared 
to him to have been the spot where the parties from the wreck had pitched their 
camp. Near it he observed a large cocoa-nut tree which had been deeply cut 
around the trunk at two metres above the ground, besides other traces of the 
use of the axe at a remote date, but beyond this he noticed no new indications. 
The two frigates mounted with cannon, which could be none but those of la 
Perouse, for no others were knoAvn to have disappeared in these seas, had 
doubtless encountered, but with more adverse fortune, casualties similar to those 
which befell the frigates of Admiral d'Entrecasteaux ; of which one was near 
being lost on the Beaupre islands at the time of their discovery, and the other 
struck on a reef of zoophytes in the pass which forms an entrance to the haven 
of Balade, but was fortunately extricated. 

It was not an impossibility that the remnant of the crews of la Perouse should 
be saved in the bark which they had constructed, and on which they put to sea 
about the close of the year 1788. In fact, the English Captain Bligh, of the 
ship Bounty, abandoned in the midst of the South sea by his revolted crew, 
in an undecked shallop only twenty-two feet in length, passed, 18th May, 1789, 
about fifty leagues to the south, and consequently almost within sight of the 
isles of Vanikoro, and succeeded. May 29, in reaching the coast of NeAV Holland 
at the south entrance of Torres' straits, whence they made their Avay to Cou- 
pang, in the island of Timor. True it is, as appears from the romantic narrative 
of his adventures, that not to have perished a hundred times was due only to 
the most astonishing good fortune. This fortune was denied to la Perouse and 
his companions, though the boat in which they left Vanikoro but a few months 
before was no doubt larger and better appointed than that of Bligh. 

In similar circumstances many others have succeeded in being saved. In 
reading the stirring recital of their various perils, we readily perceive that in the 
fate of la Perouse there is nothing enigmatical ; nor can the conclusion escape 



126 MEMOIR OF C. P. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

113 tliat tlie expedition of cl'Entrecasteaux must have been conducted with as 
much ability as zeal, when we see on the chart of the archipelago of Santa 
Cruz, by i\[. Beautemps-BcauprLJ, two of the lines of survey directed by him 
upon the island of la Recherche or Vanikoro, meet precisely at the spot where 
still lie beneath the waves the anchors and cannons of one of the frigates of the 
illustrious and unfortunate navigator. 

The ships of d'Entrecasteaux continued in sight of the island la Recherche 
almost the whole of the 19th of May, 1793. Besides the instruments of the 
, survey, there was no deficiency of telescopes pointed towards the land, through 
which, if signals after the European manner had been made, the piercing eyes 
of some of the mariners could not fail to have descried them. But the survi- 
vors of the wreck were doubtless long departed or dead when the expedition 
passed, Avhich was not till five years after the disaster. As to finding under 
the waters of the sea the remains of the shipwreck, that would have been a 
stroke of good fortune such as seems in general not to have attached to any- 
thing connected with the expedition of la Perouse. Perhaps, however, d'En- 
• trecasteaux might have had that melancholy satisfaction, if his officers had 
paid more attention to the piece of iron, mounted as a hatchet, which was seen 
in possession of the natives of Santa Cruz, for it had very possibly been pro- 
cured from the remains of tlie Avrecked frigates. But who will venture to say 
that in their circumstances he would himself have divined it. • 

However that may be, the hour had now come for the departure of the ex- 
pedition. Sailing from Santa Cruz it pursued its prescribed course, and thus 
separated itself more and more from the principal object of its research ; yet, 
thanks to the indefiitigable zeal of M. Beautemps-Beaupre, it continued to ren- 
der eminent service to hydrography. It traversed the archipelagos of the Solo- 
mon and Louisiade groups, the coasts of New Britain and New Guinea ; but a de- 
plorable incident awaited it on these obscure shores. Admiral d'Entrecasteaux 
died July 20, 1793, after a short illness which presented some of the symptoms of 
scurvy. The captain of the frigate I' Esperance had already fallen a victim 
to fever in the port of Balade. Very soon scurvy and dysentery had decimated 
the crews which left France in 1791, while the loss among the higher officers 
divided itself with impartial severity between Paris and Coblentz. Not that 
there Avas any suspension of the surveys, which continued to produce excellent 
charts, but a feeling prevailed that it was time to desist. The two frigates 
were turned towards the island of Java, and entered the port of Sourabaya, 
where the voyagers learned that the day of their arrival was not only October 
27, 1793, but, at the same time, the 6th Brumaire of the year II. 

The expedition was here broken up and its different members returned sep- 
arately to Europe. In his passage, M. Beautemps-Beaupre stopped some time 
at the Cape of Cood Hope. He had preserved the minutes of his charts, but 
the fairly executed transcripts, with other scientific documents collected by the 
expedition, were captured on the return by the English, by whom, however, 
they were restored at a later period. Yet, to avoid the possibility of their dis- 
appearance, he employed the time of his stay at the Cape in making a new 
copy, which his friend M. Renard, chief surgeon of the expedition, undertook 
to convey privately to the representative of France in the United States of 
America. He himself embarked on a Swedish vessel, which landed him at Goth- 
embourg, Avhere M. Fournicr, French consul, procured him the means of 
re-entering his own country. 

_ Arrived at Paris August 31, 1796, after an absence of five years, he rejoined 
his excellent friend M. Flcurieu, and resumed, under his direction, the prepara- 
tion of the Neptune of the Baltic sea, being at once named hydrographic engi- 
neer of the first class, and under-kcieper of the general depot of the marine. In 
1798 the editing and publication of the charts of the voyage of d'Entrecasteaux 
were officially confided to him. This great performance, which did not appear 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS -BEAUPRE. 127 

till 1808, was a work of prolonged cxecutiou, but tlie co-operation wliich lie 
gave it did not engross liim exclusively, and from tlie 20tli July, 1799, to the 
26tli June, 1804, he was charged in'chief with making the hydrographic survey 
of the course of the Scheldt, and with a succession of other hydrographic mis- 
sions relative either to the Scheldt or to the coasts of the North sea. 

Admiral Rosily, director of the depot of marine, being designated at the end 
of the campaign of 1802 to make an inspection of these labors, informed himself 
of the methods followed by M. Beautemps-Beaupre, as well in fixing the posi- 
tions of shoals and of soundings as in the construction of the plan. He gave 
bis complete approbation to these methods, which consisted essentially in the 
combination of the accurate measurement of angles by means of the circle of 
reflection, with the employment of the geometric principle of the " problem of 
three points," a combination Avhose application to submarine topography is one 
of the best titles of M. Beautemps-Beaupre to the respectful consideration of 
bydrographers. 

In 1804 the Nautical Description of the Coast of the North S>eafrom Calais 
to Ostend was published under the auspices of the depot of marine. This work 
gives in detail the description of the shoals which obstruct the port of Dunkirk, 
and of those which are comprised between Dunkirk and the entrance of the 
Scheldt, as well as the nautical instructions necessary for mariners who frequent 
those shores. The chart which accompanies it was reproduced at the hydro- 
graphical office of London, with an English title, as having been executed by 
Admiral Beautemps-Beaupre ; for the English were not slow in ascertaining, 
though a little vaguely, that under that name there existed a hydrographer 
Avorthy of the highest confidence. In the following years M. Beautemps- 
Beaupre explored the course of the Scheldt, till then but little studied, and, for 
the first time, demonstrated the practicability of the ascent of that river by 
ships-of-the-line as high as Antwerp, an indication which furnished a basis for 
the plans of the Emperor at that point. Charts of minute detail embody the 
results of these labors, before the termination of which M. Beautemps-Beaupre 
was advanced in his position as hydrographical engineer and ofticer of the 
marine, and was named (August 5, 1804) a member of the legion of honor. He 
had by this time, indeed, become pre-eminently the hydrographer of the Em- 
peror Napoleon. The latter, when a city or department required an important 
and difficult construction, was accustomed to say : " I will stnd Prony thither." 
When the matter in hand was the elaboration of one of those great projects 
which he had so justly at heart for the re-establishment of our maritime power, 
he sent, without saying anything, M. Beautemps-Beaupre. 

After the campaign of Austerlitz and the peace of Presburg, the views of 
the Emperor were turned towards the coasts of Dalmatia, of which the numerous 
inlets and islands, Avith their steep banks and deep channels, present magnifi- 
cent harbors, equally sheltered from the wind and the enemy, and of great 
importance to the Venetian marine. M. Beautemps-Beaupre received (February 
6, 180G) an order to make the hydrographic survey of the military ports on the 
east shore of the Gulf of Venice. To this object he devoted three campaigns, 
in 1806, 1808, and 1809. He took plans of the Avhole coast from Trieste to the 
mouths of the Cattaro, embracing the port af Pola, and the still more magnifi- 
cent one of Calamota, near Ragusa. The plans and surveys of coasts Avhich 
he executed have been published on a reduced scale, but the admirably drawn 
originals remain one of the ornaments of the depot of marine. 

After the battle of Wagram he was sent by General Maureillan, governor of 
Zara, to the headquarters of the French army at Vienna, as bearer of a conven- 
tion of armistice relative to Dalmatia. Pie received, on this occasion, from the 
band of the Emperor, the decoration of the iron crown. Being ordered to 
report himself," with his charts, to the minister of marine at Paris, he had 
scarcely arrived at that city when he was named member of a commission 



128 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

cliargcd Mitli duties relating to military operations on the coast of Zealand, 
where the English had made a descent. Recurrence to him was the invariable 
rule in everything bearing on the afiairs of the Scheldt, and in the intervals of 
his labors in Dalmatia he had been repeatedly required to return thither. His 
indefatigable activity was equal to all demands. 

A new phase in his life now opened to him. The death .of his venerable 
master and friend, JVI. dc Fleurieu, had left a place vacant in the first class of 
the Institute in the section of geograjihy and navigation. JI. Bcautemps-Beau- 
pre consented, with much distrust, to become a candidate. To make the report 
on his titles to a nomination fell to the lot of M. Arago, who, observing the 
number and variety of his labors, said to him : " Yov must have lived a hundred 
years /" He had lived, however, but forty-four, and Avas nominated, September 
24, 1810, by a large majority. One of his principal competitors was Admiral 
dc Rosily, director of the depot of marine, his official chief and constant friend. 
The transient rivalry produced no change in their feelings or relations. In our 
peaceful contests, he who loses to-day frequently succeeds to-morrow, and the 
merit of one aspirant places in higher relief the merits of others. Admiral 
Rosily was himself an hydrographer of much experience and great knowledge. 
In 17S7, during the voyage of la Perouse, he had executed, by order of the 
King, on the frigate Venus, which he commanded, the hydrographic recon- 
naissance of the Red sea. In 1816, zealously supported by M. Beautemps- 
Beauprd, he, too, became a colleague of the Academy in the section of free 
academicians. 

In 1811 the empire had been extended as far as Hamburg and Lubeck. M, 
Beautemps-Bcaupre, who, at the beginning of his career, had labored on the 
Baltic Neptune under M. r'leurieu, was now charged with the hydrographic 
exploration of the northern coasts of the empire beyond the Scheldt. From 
1811 to 1813 he made a series of surveys in the departments of Holland, as 
well as at the mouths of the Ems, the Weser, and the Elbe, in view of the estab- 
lishment of a great military port. The decision, founded on his investigations, 
being in favor of the Elbe, he was charged, with the selection of the most 
favorable site on the left bank of that river, and made a complete hydrographic 
survey of its course. 

In 1815, during the hundred days, the Emperor, at a reception in the Tuil- 
leries, stopping abruptly before M. Beautemps-Beaupre, said to him, with an air 
of chagrin : " We are still very far from the Elbe — and your charts V " Sire," 
replied M. Beautemps-Beaupre, "1 considered it my duty to send them to the 
United States by an American vessel." " It is weU," rejoined the Emperor, 
gratified at recognizing in this trait the man Avho had been the confidant and 
faithful instrument of his great designs. At a later period the charts were 
remitted to the government of Hanover, and M. Beautemps«-Beaupre was named 
a member of the Royal Society of Sciences of Gottingen. 

Justly honored for so long a series of services, he might have now resigned 
himself to a well-earned repose, but his was not the temperament for such an 
indulgence, and at an age when many think of closing their career he com- 
menced a new one. Since his return from the Cape of Good Hope in 1796, 
he had been unable, by reason of. the war, to extend his labors beyond the 
waters closed to the enemy, and, Avith the exception of his exploration of the 
coasts of the North sea, after the peace of Amiens in 1802, he had been obliged 
to confine himself to some of the rivers of Germany and the equally protected 
inlets of Dalmatia. The return of peace again made the ocean free, and the 
opportunity of revisiting it Avas seized Avith alacrity by M. Beautemps-Beauprd, 
for Avhom it seemed to revive the brightest days of his eaily manhood. 

Admiral Rosily, director of the depot of marine, had the merit of imme- 
diately comprehending Avhat the occasion required and alloAved, and Louis 
XVIII that of entertaining his proposals Avith favox', notwithstanding the em- 



MEMOIR OP C. P. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 129 

ban'assments of the times. The ordinance directing the immediate prepara- 
tion of i\\e pilot of the coasts of France •^vai^ signed June 6, 1814, bvit the labor 
could not be commenced till 1816. By an ordinance of the former date, M. 
Beautemp.^-Beauprc was named hjdrographic engiuecr-in-chief* and joint 
keeper of the general depot of the charts, plans, and journals of the marine. 

The condition of French hydrography at that time was an anomaly result- 
iag from circumstances. The administration of Louis XIV had occupied itself 
with the hydrography of the coasts of France, and the engineer Lavoye had 
executed, about 1670, charts of the coasts of Brittany which were quite passa- 
ble, or at least very much superior to those which represented the parts of the 
coast comprised between the mouth of the Loire and the shores of Spain. A 
century afterwards, in 1776, the government ordered a hydrographical recon- 
naissance of the coasts of France under the superintendence of la Brettonniere, 
captain in the navy, and Mechain, astronomer for the marine and member of 
the Academy of Sciences ; but it would seem that those distinguished person- 
ages were rather charged with the collection of materials for rectifying the 
errors of the old charts, than Avith the execution of such a d •tailed and com- 
plete survey as might meet the wants of the service under ali circumstances. 
There remain in the archives of the depot of marine bui: few documents rela- 
ting to their operations, which extended, however, from Dunkirk to tile Bay 
of Cancale. • 

Since that time geography had made in France important advances with 
which hydrography had by no means kept pace. Before the close of the 
eighteenth century there were geographic charts of a great part of the globe, com- 
petent to convey a general and sufficiently precise idea of the continents and 
seas. France particularly had been enriched with the map of Cassini, known 
also by the name of the map of the Academy, a work of great merit for that 
time in point of execution, and of great utility. It may be said, however, with 
truth, that towards the end of the last and in the first years of the present cen- 
tury, the art of constructing geographical charts received improvements by 
which it was essentially revolutionized. This amelioration was consequent 
upon the establishment of the metric system, which had necessitated the meas- 
urement of the meridian of France, from Dunkirk to Barcelona, and afterwards 
to Formeutera. To the chain of triangles established in the execution of this 
measurement a comprehensive triangulatiou was subsequently attached, ex- 
tending over the whole of France, and in the sequel over considerable portions 
of Spain, of Italy, and of Great Britain. In the prosecution of these vast and 
difficult labors several members of the Academy have borne a conspicuous 
part: MM. Delambre, Mechain, Biot, Arago, Mathieu, Puissant, in conjunc- 
tion with most of the members of the corps of topographical engineers and 
sundry officers of the military staff. On the triangles of the meridian has been 
based the trigonometric system of the new map of France, published by the 
depot of war. In England, savants of the highest merit. Colonels Mudge, 
Roy, Sabine, and the most distinguished officers of the ordnance corps, have 

* It may occasion surprise that M. Beautcmjis-Bcaupre, employed and appreciated as he 
was by tlie Emperor Napoleon I, should have retained till 1H14 the title of ingenicur-hydro- 
graphe ordinaire; but this will be more easily understood from the following letter written 
July 20, 18l'J, by M. le due Dccres, who had been minister of the marine under the empire: 
"All the world appreciates the services rendered by M. Beautemps-Beaupre with a zeal, per 
aeverance, and talent above all praise; but 1, who have maintained close relations with him 
for many j'ears, cannot but refjard him with sincere attachment, and owe hiui many thanks 
for the proofs of friendship which he has always given me. There are persons who, without 
the least claim, are always soliciting; these are numerous. There are others, forming but a 
small minority, who, with the most incontestable claims, never solicit anything. The fact is, 
that during the eighteen years of my official relations with M. Beautemps-Beaupre, he ceased 
not to occupy my attention by his labors, but never once invoked it by a solicitation. Since- 
ho forgets himself, it is but right that justice and friendship should remember him." 
9 s 



130 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

:ombiiie(l tlioir opcnitions with those of our own countrymen, and have com- 
menced the publication of a magnificent chart of England, designated by the 
name of the Ordnance Map. 

To place French hydrography on a level with geography, while rescuing 
it from the momentary abandonment which war had necessitated, was now the 
object of interest. The instructions which ]\[. Beautemps-Beaupni received 
for this purpose were framed by Admiral Rosily, chief of the marine depot, 
and ]M. de Ilossel, Avho had become one of its joint directors, after having aided 
in the hydrographical labors of the expedition of d'Entrecasteaux. These in- 
structions indicated the west coast of France as first claiming attention, since 
among all those to whose hydrography navigators had need of daily recur- 
rence, this was most noted for its defect of exploration. It was to Brest, 
therefore, that M. Beauteinps-Beaupre repaired, and here two schooners had 
been built for him, whose names, la liechcrchc and V Astrolabe, gratefully re- 
called the memory of la Perouse and d'Entrecasteaux, To these were joined 
the light vessels necessary for the accomplishment of his mission. 

In indicating the objects proposed for his attainment, he was left at liberty 
to adopt that mode of operating which long experience in labors of this nature 
might iiuluce him to select. He thus found himself authorized either to unite 
all the means placed at his disposal on a small extent of coast, in order to pro- 
,duce promptly a description of it, or to di^iribute them over several points at 
the same time. 

The first was the mode on Avhich he determined ; as well because he had 
already proved, as he himself tells us,* its efiiciency under various circum- 
stances, as because it was the only one which would enable the depot of marine 
to publish in succession the collective results of each campaign. By concen- 
trating the operations of the engineers successively on small extents of coast, it 
Avas in his power to verify in some measure daily the labors of each of his as- 
sistants. Thus, for instance, Avhen an engineer, in sounding, encountered some 
obstruction which had escaped former researches, he gave notice of it, and M. 
Beautemps-Bcaupie Avas in a position to make a personal investigation imme- 
diately. To this mode of operating he owed the advantage of being able to 
combine all his means at the same moment on a dangerous position, when the 
weather was favorable. In this way he has often succeeded in terminating in 
a single day, or even a ia^^ hours, the examination of dangers situated far in 
the oiling, the description of which would have required the employmenfof an 
isolated engineer during a whole season; of this kind were the reconnaissances 
of the western extremity of the bank and race of Sein, the flals of lloche- 
Bonne, &c. 

The years 1816, 1817, 1818, were exclusively devoted to the survey of the 
maritime position of Brest, and its results, forming the first part of the Pilole 
Fran^a'iH, were published in 1822, The operations of 1819, 1820, 1821, and 
of the first part of 1822, embraced the survey of that part of the western 
coast of France comprised between the point of Penmarch (Finislerre) and 
the isle of Yen, (Vendee.) and furnished the materials of the second part 
of the above work, published in 1829. From 1822 to 1826 the survey was 
extended to that part of the coast comprised between the isle of Yen and Spain, 
and its results appeared as the third part in 1832. In 1839 the fourth part 
was given to the world, representing the labors of five years from 1829 to 1833, 
and embracing a description of the coast between the isle of Brehat and Bar- 
fieur. In 1834, 1835, and 1836, the operations were extended from the latter 
point to Dunkirk. Finally, in 1837 and 1838, the survey was made of 
that portion of coast comprised between the isle of Brehat and the 

* Expos6 des Travaux Uilutifs a la Reconnaissance Jlijclrogrftphique des Cotes Occidentalis 
de France, par M. Beauleuips-Bcuupie, p. 3. 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 131 

northern rocks of the Passage du Four, (Fiuistcrrc,) where operations had 
stopped ill 1818, and tlms were completed the materials for the fifth and sixth 
parts of the Pilate Francais, which appeared in 1842 and 1844. The six 
atlases contain twenty-one general charts, sixty-five special charts, thirty-one 
pl»ns of double elephant size, fifteen of half elephant, and fourteen of quarter 
elephant size, two hundred and seventy-nine tables of surveys taken of the 
principal dangers of the west and north coasts of France, and one hundred and 
eighty-four tables of high and low water observed during the progress of the 
twenty seasons spent upon the same coasts. The account ( C Expose, &c.) 
of these hydrographical labors, executed under his orders, was so drawn up by 
M. Beautemps-Beauprc as to serve as the complement to the second chapter of 
the appendix attached to the first volume of the voyage of d'Entrecasteaux. 
In justifying this form of composition, he pleads that, when that appendix was 
published, his practical knowledge of the best means for reconnoitring maritime 
obstructions could not be so positive as that acquired during his first ten cam- 
paigns (1817 to 1S27) on the coasts of France. It is certain, nevertheless, that 
in everything essential his method was definitely fixed at the time of the pub- 
lication of d'Entrecasteaux's voyage in 1808 ; and in the preface to that work 
it is thus spoken of by M. de Ilossel, an authority of undoubted competency : 
'* Navigators will in general find in this appendix hydrographic instructions of 
a far more complete nature than any heretofore published. ^I. Beautemps; 
Beaupre has here given also several expeditious methods for sounding a coast 
and marking the depths on the chart. These methods, of which he availed 
himself for his operations conducted on the coast of France, (before 1808,) by 
order of the minister of marine, are so useful that it would be unjust to with- 
hold them from navigators, as well as those of which he made use during the 
campaign." 

From these judicious observations of one of the masters of hydrographic 
science, it will readily be inferred that the operations Avhich M. Beautemps- 
Beaupre conducted on the coasts of France differ in several essential particulars 
from those with which he was habitually occupied in the voyage of d'Entre- 
casteaux. In the latter, which pertain generally to what is called surveying 
under sail, the end principally in A'iew was to fix the position of the remarkable 
objects seen on the land, capes, mountains, &c., by means of observations 
directed towards those objects from certain points in the course of the ship, de- 
termined with especial care. The operations on the coasts of France, within 
an extent generally less wide and with much less rapidity, had in view to fix 
various points of the sea, rocks, places of sounding, &c., with reference to cer- 
tain objects determined on land, mountains, steeples, semaphores, and other 
signals. This was almost an inverse operation to the preceding ; yet this also 
required numerous admeasurements of anglos, which were obtained with the 
same reflecting circle, and the geometric constructions were derived essentially 
from the same trigonometric principles, although the proposition of the " problem 
of three points" was here more frequently employed. 

As the bearings taken from the sea were directed upon all the remarkable 
objects of the land, it was necessary that the position of these should be deter- 
mined by geodetic measurements made ashore with all the precision attainable 
by science. For this reason a triangulation was executed on land embracing 
all the points of the coast. This was efi'ected for the western coasts of France, 
from Brest to Saint Jean de Luz, by M. Daussy, and for the northern and 
southern coasts by M. Bi;gat, both members of the corps of hj'drographical 
engineers of the marine. These triangulations have been connected with the 
grand triangulation which serves as a base for the new chart of France pub- 
lished by the corps of the etat-7najor, and have been found so exact that they 
have been finally incorporated in that fundamental system. MM. Daussy and 
Begat have deduced from their trigonometric labors a complete table of the 



132 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPEE. 

positions of all the rcmarkaLlo objects of the coasts of France which can be 
seen from the soa ; and it was by hearings directed upon these points, rigor- 
ously determined, that M. Beautemps-Bcanprc; and his assistants iixed the posi- 
tions of the points of the sea wliich were to be marked on the charts and plaus. 
The bearings were invariably taken with the reflecting circle, in the managTi- 
mcut of wliich valuable and delicate instrument M. lieautemps-Beauprc had 
acquired great dexterity. Nor was he less expert in constructing graphically on 
the lirst rough draught of his chart the points observed by his method, founded 
on the geometrical principle of the " problem of three points." lie was 
master in a surprising degree of the varied constructions deducible from this 
principle, and applied them, as the case might require, with the utmost readi- 
ness and sagacity. 

It is usually by means of the circumferences of circles described with the ob- 
served distances that the points of station are obtained; but when this construc- 
tion presents some difficulty by reason of the length of the radius of the circle, 
the nearness of centres, &c., it is practicable to substitute one of those somewhat 
numerous and generally quite simple constructions which elementary geometry 
deduces from the same fundamental theorem. Tlius, in many circumstances, 
calculation may be used to find the radii and centres of the circles to be described. 
M. Beautemps-Bcauprii recommends for these constructions, combined with 
calculation, the employment of the tables of natural tangents and sines. 

The scale adopted by the hydrographic engineers for the first reduction of 
the • labors Avas six lines for 100 toises, or YiToo' equal to six times that of the 
cb of Cassini. The charts, aiid even plans, however, have been generally 
published on a scale much smaller, but M. Beautemps-Beaupre soon recognized 
the propriety of not only collecting the materials requisite for the execution of 
the new charts of the coasts of France, but of exerting himself, moreover, to 
bring together in the archives of the depot of marine all the documents which 
might be useful in the sequel for forming a judgment of any projects relating 
to navigation. He suffered himself to be deterred neither by the difficulties nor 
magnitude of the work, and the depot found itself eventually in possession of a 
collection of five hundred and twenty-seven quarto volumes, containing the 
documents requisite to execute at need, on the largest scale, the plan of all parts 
of the western and northern coasts of France to which the- attention of govern- 
ment might be called. 

One of the most essential and useful parts of marine charts is the indication of 
the depths of the sea at difterent points obtained by the sounding line and denoted 
by figures on the chart. M. Beautemps-Beauprd was equally skilled in making 
and in marking the positions of soundings, and it is with the authority of a 
practised master that he recapitulates in the Expose des Travaux, Sfc., the rules 
of the difficult art of submarine topography. It was seldom that an obstruction 
or peril escaped him, though he seems to take pleasure in citing, for the instruc- 
tion of his successors, instances in Avhich his researches were baffled for years 
in succession. One day notice was given him that a vessel had touched upon 
a rock at a point where none was known to exist. He sought for it a long time 
without success, but at last his line fell upon it. The rock was siniply a peak 
whose diam(!ter scarcely exceeded that of the lead of the sounding line. 

It is necessary to take accoiuit in soundings of the constant variations of the 
level of the sea by reason of the tides. " The first thing to be done," says our 
hydrographer, "at the commencement of a campaign, on a coast where the water 
througli this cause continually changes its level, is to place a certain number of 
scales, divided into feet and inches, on which those changes shall be observed, 
since it is by means of observations of this kind that we are enabled, in giving 
the chart its definite form, to reduce to the lowest water' level the soundings 
made at all hours of the day and tide. To reduce the soundings is to subtract 
from the depths found on different days and at all hours of the tide, for every 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 133 

point of the coast souuded, the suitable number of feet, iu order to transfer to 
the plan only the depths of water lound at each point at the precise instant of 
lowest depression. The tables of high and low tide, at many principal points 
on the coasts of France, are extracts frem the large body of observations which 
served for the reduction of the soundings." [Exjwse dcs Traraux, &c., p. 10.) 
As M. Beantemps-Bcaupre has more than once remarked, the soundings in 
many parts of the sea are far from being necessarily unchangeable. It is readily 
conceived that they must vary as well from the effect of deposits produced at 
some points as of erosions which take place at others. He had said, as early 
as 1804, in his nautical description of the coast of the Noi'th sea: " We forewarn 
navigators that our work must not be regarded as everywhere authoritative, ex- 
cept for a limited time, on account of the changes which are in progress in the 
shoals upon these shores." To the same effect he observes with reference to 
the western and southern coasts of France : " Ail banks of sand and ooze un- 
dergo changes of position and of depth of which navigators should ever be dis- 
trustful, since ihe best charts can only give, as regards dangers of this kind, 
insufficient information when some time has intervened since their construction. 
And this applies especially to such banks when they obstruct the mouths of 
rivers. Hence the necessity of sounding annually the principal channels, and, 
indeed, of frequently renewing the charts of the entrances of rivers." It may 
be added that the comparison of the successive charts of the same region will 
some day furnish valuable data respecting the accumulation of sub-marine 
alluviums. 

It was to the class of researches just spoken of that our colleague dedicated 
his last hydrographic labor. He had not taken final leave of the sea in closing, 
in 1839, his survey of the northern coast of France. In 1841, at the age of 
seventy-five, he cheerfully complied with the invitation of Admiral Baudin to 
join him in an investigation of the changes produced in the system of bars at 
the mouth of the Seine within the seven preceding years. It was then that for 
the first time he had at his disposal a vessel moved by steam, and the superior 
facilities thus furnished for hydrographic enterprises drew from him the remark, 
" That he would gladly recommence his career if it were only for the pleasure 
of pi'osecuting hydrography with such advantages." 

Though he cheerfully acknowledged that the marine had done iu his behalf 
all that was practicable, yet he had never, during his operations on the coasts 
of France, possessed other resources for transportation than those supplied by 
the sail and oar. He had generally at his command a company of eight or ten 
hydrographical engineers and ofiicers of marine, and from this school of prac- 
tical hydrography have proceeded many of each class who have since been in- 
trusted with the most important labors in remote as well as neighboring seas. 
Among them have appeared at different times our present colleagues, M. Daussy, 
Admiral du Petit Thenars, and M. Dortet de Tessau; MM. Givry and Gressier, 
to whom was intrusted, under our distinguished and regretted colleague, Admi- 
ral Roussin, the hydrography of the coasts of Brazil ; MM. Monnier and Le 
Bourguignon Duperre, who have furnished us a magnificent chart of our colony 
of Martinique, and have commenced the hydrographic survey of our Mediter- 
ranean coasts, and those of Italy ; MM. Begat, Keller, Chazallon, Lisusson, 
DL-lamarche, de la Roche-Poncie, now actively prosecuting the grand hydro- 
graphic enterprises of the depot of marine; MM. Darondeau and Vincendon 
Dumoulin, who have so honorably associated their names with our great voy- 
ages of circumnavigation and other important labors ; MM. Le Saulnier de 
Vauhello, Lapierre, Jehenne, De Villeneuve, who, as officers of our marine, 
have in different quarters of the Avorld rendered signal services to hydrography. 
Familiar with all the hazards of the sea, M. Beautemps-Beaupre exercised a 
consummate prudence in the employment of his assistants, and Avas justified in 
saying to the Academy, when he presented it with the sixth and last volume of 



134 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

the Piiofc ile France : " It completes the satisfnction 1 feci at having brought 
to a successful close so considerable a Avoik as that which I now submit to the 
Academy, that never in the course of tAventy campaigns, amidst the innumerable 
dangers which beset our coasts, have I had to deplore the loss of one of my 
comiades by any accident of the sea." Nor was he less emphatic in acknowb 
edging the zeal and science of those who had taken part in his labors, and we 
feel that it was with equal pride and pleasure that he took another occasion to 
say : " Practical knowledge may advance, and methods be hereafter improved, 
but we believe ourselves fully justilied in afllnning, that under no circumstances 
can greater zeal be exerted than has been displayed by all our fellow-laborers." 
Hence, when Louis Philippe, in 1844, named him grand officer of the legion of 
honor, the entire corps of bydrographical engineers felt themselves recompensed 
in the person of their venerable chief. 

Kindness of disposition did not preclude, in the case of our colleague, great 
firmness of character, as was abundantly manifested amidst the vexatious in- 
separable from labors like his; especially was his constancy of purpose proved 
by a circumstance which would have discouraged most others. Although he 
embarked young, and at the outset was tossed for two successive years on the 
most stormy seas, he ceased not at any time to be subject to sea-sickness, and 
it was amidst sufferings from this malady, which so completely subdues the 
stoutest spirits, that for fifty years it devolved on him to measure angles with 
the nicest precision, and note the details of soundings, while exposed on slight 
vessels to the waves which often SAA'ept oA'cr himself and his drawings ; yet he 
paid uo attention to these things, and disliked to have his infirmity observed by 
others. To his assistants, however, his sufferings could not be unknown, and 
must have contributed to the sympathetic affection with which he was regarded 
by those, whether officers or mariners, with whom his labors brought him into 
contact. 

It was indeed natural that, with such a character as his, M. Beautemps- 
Beaupre should be L.ved by all who approached him, and it may be readily 
imagined that the 25tli September, 1S4S, which witnessed his official retirement, 
was, for the depot of marine and the whole corps of hydrographic engineers, a 
day of undisscmbled regret. Equally may we conclude that it was a day of 
festivity when, Pebruar}' 2, 1853, M. Ducos, minister of marine, came, in the 
name of the Emperor and in the presence of the corps of engineers, to inaugurate 
the bust of our colleague in the grand gallery of the depot, whose invaluable 
documents have in great part been collected by himself or under his orders, or 
at least by the methods with which he has endowed hydrography. On this 
interesting occasion. Admiral Mathieu, the worthy and learned director of tlie 
depot, ])ronounced a discourse, from which I must content myself Avith trans- 
cribing the; following passage: "In having constantly before our eyes the ven- 
erable features of lum who was once our chief, and who has created that admi- 
rable liydrograj)liic science which is the torch of navigation, Ave shall recall 
without ceasing his vast and conscientious labors, his useful counsels, his devo- 
tion to duty, his rigid probity, and at every moment of the day, so to speak, avc 
shall pay him the tribute of respect and gratitude due to him by so many titles." 
"To this address M. Ducos cordially responded : "This bust," he said, in closing 
his remarks, "is entitled to our respect, fV)r it is that of M. Beautemps-Bcaupn'', 
£0 much endeared to the naA'igators of all nations and of every sea. In dedi- 
cating this effigy of the man of science, whom you justly consider the founder 
of the depot of marine, in the place Avhich has been the Avitness of the labors of 
his long career, it Avould seem to be no strained metaphor Avhich should liken 
this tribute of your regard and veneration to one of those beacons erected by 
his counsels and exertions by Avhich you Avould ingeniously recall to his suc- 
cessors the modest point of departure, and the glorious point of success AA'hich 
they too may realize." The bust is perfect in its resemblance, faithfully repro- 



MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.' 135 

ducing the noble features, the kiudliuess, united with penetration, which charac- 
terized the original. Under a physiognomy impressed with so much goodness, 
we are easily persuaded that we see one of those ancient savants of the primitive 
type whose renown is the property of ages. To the skilful statuary (JM. 
Desprez) who executed it, the more honor should accrue, inasmuch as ]\I. Beau- 
temps-Beaupre had reached the age of eighty-six without having ever permitted 
any one to take his portrait. After the ceremony, the minister, the admiral, 
and the whole body of assistants pi'ocecded to the modest residence of M. 
Beautemps-Bcaupre, ia the street dcs Saints-Peres, there to render to the illus- 
trious old man in person, and amidst the applause of all present, an homage 
which must have sensibly touched his heart. 

Nor were the scientiiic bodies, to which he belonged by more than one 
title, less conscientious in their acknowledgments. In 1824 l>e had been named 
member of the bureau of longitudes, and assiduously attended the meetings 
whenever he was in Paris. Ilis advice in all that regarded navigation was 
here listened to with invariable deference. He had been also named one of the 
commission of light-houses from the commencement in 1826, and was especially 
intrusted with the suitable location of those invaluable aids to navigation. The 
active and inllucntial part which he took ia the deliberations of the board was 
warmly acknowledged at his funeral by i\l. Leonce lleynaud, the skilful con- 
structor of the light-house of Brehat, the site of which was fixed by M. Beau- 
temps-Bcaupre himself, after the difficult and dangerous exploration of the 
Roches- Doicrres at the entrance of the British channel. His character, his long 
experience of the sea, his solicitude for the public good, conspired, with the 
intrinsic ivisdom of his counsels, to secure their constant adoption. Even on 
his death-bed his thoughts were still occupied with the interests and dangers 
of maritime enterprise ; and if he manifested a sensibility, it was to the assur- 
ance that the member of the commission of light-houses had completed the 
work of the hydrographcr, and that thenceforward all important questions 
bearing on the lighting of our sea-coast were resolved. 

Whatever related to the sea interest(!d him to the last. In 1853 a commission 
was appointed to investigate, under the direction of M. Dumas, certain ques- 
tions touching the existence of the tangue, a product of marine origin which the 
sea throws up at the entrances of certain rivers of Normimdy and Brittany. 
Agriculture dreaded the disappearance of this fertilizer. Tlie commission, de- 
sirous of consulting M. Beautemps-Beaupre on this production of shores which 
be had so thoroughly explored, repaired in a body to his residence. 'Y\\ii aged 
navigator i^^covered all his animation in speaking of places which lie had so 
often visited : "We know not," lie said, " how the tangue is reproduced at 
those points ; it is the fuiol whiclt lai/s golden eggs ; it must not be interfered 
with." 

In the presence of the great spectacles of nature, IM. Beantemps-BeanpnJ had 
contracted a taste for natural history. If he did not cultivate it himself, he 
zealously aided those who did. In the expedition of d'Entrecasteaux he had 
formcid intimate relations with its botanist, M. de la Billardiere, and it was he 
who brought to France the beautiful nautilus vitre now in the Museum of 
Natural History which was bequeathed to the government by M. de Kermadec, 
captain of the Espcrance, on his death in New Caledonia. Many of our col- 
leagues recall with sensibility the cordial and obliging reception extended to 
them on our coasts by M. Beautemps-Bcaupre while prosecuting his own 
arduous hydrographic labors. 

Ileared among the savants of the close of the eighteenth century, he had pre- 
served that almost religious respect for science which was one of their dis- 
tinctive characteristics. Hence the dignity, united with friendliness, which per- 
vaded all his relations. "He was," said the Marchioness de Laplace, whose 
remembrance is itself a eulogy, "a man of an antique character." He possessed 



136 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 

tbat elevation of gcutiment which Plutarch eo well knew how to paint. Heverses 
of fortune, which would have overwhelmed another, were encountered by him 
with stoic firmness. Involved at an advanced age in the failure of a banker,* 
he lost by that c\cnt the savings of his whole life ; but he contented himself 
with saying aU'ectionatcly to JNIadamc Beautemps-Beaupre, " This event, my 
love, makes us youngc.T by thirty years," an expression which supposed in her 
an elevation of sentiment equal to his own. Few marriages, indeed, have been 
80 happy as that which he contracted, in 1S04, with Madame Fayolle, widow 
of a commissary general of marine. Both were nearly eighty when death sepa- 
rated them by the removal of the wife ; it was the first cloud which had dark- 
cued their union. 

M. Fayolh;, issue of the first marriage of Madame Beautemps-Beaupre, found 
in our colleague a second father, and, as hydrographical engineer, was for many 
years one of his most distinguished and useful assistants. 

M. Beautemps-Beaupre had always had a weakness of the breast ; at the age 
of eighteen some physicians had even augured an early decline. When he 
embarked to take part in the expedition of d'Entrccasteaux, it was generally 
thought that he would never again see France. This prognostic Avas fortu- 
nately falsified ; but an obstinate cough attended his whole life, and in later 
years subjected him to much annoyance. 

It will scarcely be forgotten among ourselves that, at our sessions, he was a 
model of punctuality. He signed our record the 23d of October, 1853, but 
thenceforward was forced to renounce his attendance. This privation, and the 
sufi'erings which occasioned it, he bore with a resignation full of cheerfulness. 
One of our colleagues having called to see him, and expressing the hope that a 
strong constitution would again restore him to us, he replied with a smile, " I 
am duly sensible of your kindness, but I shall soon be eighty-eight." Firm in 
a Christian faith, M. Beautemps-Beaupre accepted death without a murmur. 
" Let us not repine," said Admiral Baudin at his grave, " that, in subjecting 
him for several months to the supreme trial of excessive sufiering, God afforded 
him the opportunity of setting an example of resignation and unalterable 
serenity." 

He expired March 16, 1854, surrounded by a devoted family, which numbers 
two inheritors of his distinguished, name — M. Pierre Beautcmps-Beau])re, presi- 
dent of the Chamber of Commerce of Grandville, and M. Charles Beautemps- 
Beaupre, imperial procurator at Mantes, lu this Academy he succeeded M. de 
Fleurieu, his master and friend, and has himself been succeeded by M. Daussy, 
whu, from 1811, had been his most constant collaborator, and wl),o efficiently 
contributed to secure to the hydrographic survey of the coasts of France 
geodetic bases of irreproachable precision. 

* The banker, wlio was bis relative, niigbt bave been j^rosecuted for fraudulent bank- 
ruptc}'. M. Jje.autcuips-Beaupre tluew in the tire the unly paper which could have pro- 
cured his condemualiou, sajiug, "It is not I who will ever be instrumental in disgracing a 
relative." 



OUTLINE OF THE ORIGIN AND HISTORY 



ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 



PREPARED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



"The principal advantage of academies consists in the philosophical spirit naturally en- 
gendered by theui, which spreads itself throughout society, ai;d extends to all objects. The 
isolated inquirer may resign himself without fear to the spirit of system ; he only hears afar 
oft' the contradiction which ho incurs. Cut in a learned society the conflict of systematic 
opinions soon results in their overthrow ; and the desire of being mutually satisfied necessarily 
establishes between the members an agreement to admit nothing but the results of observation 
and calculation. Hence, as experience has shown, true philosophy has been generally dif- 
• fused since the rise of academies. By setting the example of subjecting everything to the 
examination of a rigorous analysis, they have dissipated the prejudices which had too long 
tyrannized in the sciences, and in which the best intellects of preceding ages had shared. 
Their useful influence over opinion has, in our day, dispelled errors which had been received 
with an enthusiasm that in other times would have perpetuated them. Equally exempt from 
the credulity which would admit everything, and the prejudice which disposes to the rejection 
of whatever departs from received ideas, tliese eidighteued bodies have always, in difficult 
questions, and with reference to extraordinary phenomena, wisely awaited the answers of ob- 
servation and experiment, which they have at the same time solicited bj' prizes and by their 
own labors. Proportioning their appreciation, as well to the magnitude and difficulty of a 
discovery as to its immediate utility, and convinced by many examples that the most sterile 
in appearance may some day lead to important consequences, they have encouraged the re- 
search for truth in regard to all objects, with the exclusion of those only which the limits of 
man's understanding render forever inaccessible. Finally, it is from their bosom that those 
great theories have arisen whose generality places them beyond the common reach, and which, 
spreading themselves by numerous applications over nature and tiie arts, have become inex- 
haustible sources of light and fruition. Wise governments, convinced of the utility of such 
societies, and considering them as one of the principal foundations of the glory and prosperity 
of empires, ha^■e not only instituted them, but attached them to their own service, that they 
might derive from them that knowledge which has often proved of the highest public advan- 
tage." — (Laplace, Precis de VHistoire de l^ Astronomic, p. 99.) 

" The development and advancement of science," it has been remarked, "are 
signally indebted to three among modern associations : the Accademia del 
Cimento at Florence, which endured, however, but for a exhort time ; the Royal 
Society of London ; and the Academy of Sciences at Paris." The lirst of these 
was established in 1657, under the patronage of the Grand Duke Ferdinand II, 
acting upon the advice of Viviaui, the great geometrician. The name adopted 
by this society implies as its object the investigation of truth by experiment 
alone, and its members, whose number was unlimited and included the distin- 
guished names of Castellio and Torricelli, were held to no other obligation but 
an abjuration of all authority and a resolution to inquire after truth, without 
regard to the doctrines of any previous system of philosophy. Nor did the 
Academy pass away without leaving a record of its labors. A volume, con- 
taining reports of the experiments made under its auspices, was printed in 1666, 
including, with many others, those on the supposed incomprcssibility of water, 
the universal gravity of bodies, and the property of electric substances. 

For England, after Italy, is claimed a priority in the formal inauguration of a 
similar and purely scientific association, and the date of the establishment of 



138 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

the Royal Society, which is referred to 16G0, certainly preceded by six years 
that of its French rival. But, indepentlently of tlie consideration that the 
period had arrived when the state of experimental science urgently demanded 
tlie realization of those splendid visions of associated activity which had long 
Lefore kindled the imagination of Bacon, * the chronological origin of the illus- 
trious bodies in question is involved in some obscurity in consequence of their 
previous existence as })rivate and spontaneous reunions of certain learned men 
of (he age. Hence the title of the " Invisible College," which we find applied 
by Boyle to the future lioyal Society, while as yet it existed only in this in- 
choate state, a period of which the follov.ing passageti convey to us some inter- 
esting notices : 

"About the year 1645," says Dr. "Wallis, "while I lived in London, (at a 
time when, by our civil Avars, academical studies Avere much interrupted in 
both our nniA'ersitics,) besides the conversation of divers eminent divines as to 
matters theological, 1 had the opportunity of being acquainted Avith divers 
Avorthy persons inquisitive into natural philosophy and other parts of human 
learning, and particularly of Avhat hath been called the New Philosophjj, or 
Experimental Fli'dosophy. We did, by agreement, divers of us, meet weekly 
in London on a certain day, to treat and discourse of such matters. Our. busi- 
ness Avas (precluding matters of theology and state affairs) to discourse and con- 
sider of philosophical inquiries, and such as related thereunto, as physic,, 
anatomy, geometry, astronomy, navigation, statics, magnetics, cliymics, me- 
chanics, and natural experiments, Avith the state of these studies as then culti- 
vated at home and abroad. We then discoursed of the circulation of tJte blood, 
the ralres in the reins, the vcnce. lactecc, the lijmphatic vesneh, the I'opicrnican 
]i})2>nlhcsis, the nature of comets and new stars, the satellites of Jupiter, the oval 
shape (as Avas then sn[>posed) of Saturn, the spots on the sun and its turning on 
its own axis, the incquat ities and selcnograph ij of the moon, the several j'hases 
of Venus and Mercury, the improvement of telescopes and grinding of glasses 
for that purfose, the weight of air, the possibility or hnpossibility of vacuities 
and nature's abhorrence thereof the Torricellian experiment in quicksilver, the 
descent of heavy bodies and the degrees of acceleration therein, and diA'ers other 
things of like nature, some of Avhich Averc then but ncAv discoveries, and others 
not so genei-ally knoAvn and embraced as noAv they are." 

" For such a candid and impassionate company as that Avas," says Dr. Sprat, 
in his History of the Royal Society, " and for such a gloomy season, Avhat could 
liaA'e been a better subject to pitch upon than natural philosophy ? To have 
been always tossing about some theological question Avould have been to make 
that their private diversion, the excess of Avhich they themselves disliked in 
th(! public ; to have been eternally musing on civil business and the distresses 
of tlu'ir country Avas too melancholy a retlection. It Avas nature alone AA'hich 
could pleasantly entertain them in that estate. Their meetings Avere as frequent 
as their aft'airs permitted; their proceedings, rather by action than discourse, 
chietly attending some particular trials in chemistry or mechanics. They had 
no rules nor method fixed ; their intention Avas more to communicate to each 
other their discoveries, Avhich they could make in so narroAv a compass, than 
an united, constant, or regular inquisition. Thus they continued, Avithout any 
great intermissions, till about the fatal year 165S, Avhen the continuance of 
their meetings might haA'e made them run the hazard of the fate of Archimedes; 
for then the place of their meeting (Gresham College) Avas made a quarter for 
soldiers." 

" There arose at this time," says Dr. WheAvell, alluding to the period ante- 
cedent to the epoch of Newton, " a group of philosophers Avho began to knock 

*Sec the "NeAv Atlantis," of Lord Bacon. 



ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 139 

at the door where truth was to bo found, although it was left for Newtou to 
force it open. These were the founders of the lioyal Society." " The men who 
formed the Koyal Society," says Bishop Burnet, " were Sir Robert Moray, 
Lord Brouncker, a profound mathematician, and Dr. Ward, a man of great re- 
search, and so dexterous that his sincerity was much questioned. But he wl.o 
labored most, at the greatest charge, and with the most success at experiments, 
was the lion. Robert Boyle, a devout Christian, humble and modest almo^st to a 
fiiult." Among other names connected with the Society in its earlier stage, or at 
the period of its formal organization, and still memorable in sdcnce, literature, or 
the arts, may be distinguished those of Bishop Wilkins, Sir Keuelm Digby, 
Evelyn, Denham, Clarke, Cowley, Willis, Wren, Ashmole, Szc. 

" The first journal book of the Society, a plain unpi'eteudiug volume, bound 
in basil, yet destined to receive great names and to be the record of important 
scientific experiments," opens with the date of November 28, 1660, and with 
the proceedings of a meeting which may be regarded as organic in relation to 
the form and permanence of the Society. Here it was determined that meet- 
ings should be regularly held every Wednesday during term tiine ; that a con- 
tribution of ten shillings on admission, and of one shilling weekly, should be 
levied on each member, whether present or absent, as long as he should please 
to maintain his connexion with the association, and a list v^as formed of the 
.names of such persons, known to those present, as were judged willing and fit 
to unite with them in their design. At a subsequent meeting a committee of 
three or more (as occasion might permit) was empowered to frame a constitu- 
tion, which was submitted and adopted at a general meeting on the 12th of 
December following. By this, the standing officers of the Society were declared 
to be three : a president or director, a treasurer, and a register ; the first to be 
chosen monthly, the two latter annually. An amanuensis and operator are 
styled "servants belonging to the Society," and receive salaries, the former 40, 
the latter 4 pounds per annum. The stated number of members Avas fixed at 
fifty -five, with permission that all persons of the degrees of baron or above 
might, at their choice, be admitted as supernumeraries. It was provided that 
no candidate should be elected the same day he was proposed, and that at least 
twenty-one members should be present at each election. For such election, 
the amanuensis, it is ordered, shall provide " several little scrolls of paper of 
equal length and breadth, in number double to the Society present. One-half 
of them shall be marked with a cross, and being rolled up shall be laid in a 
heap on the table ; the other half shall be marked with ciphers, and being 
rolled up shall be laid in another heap. Every person coming in his order 
shall take from each heap a roll, and throw which he please privately into an 
urn, and the other into a box. Then the director, and two others of the 
Societ3% openly numbering the crossed rolls in the urn, shall accordingly pro- 
nounce the election." Two-thirds of those voting wei'e necessary to a choice. 

The Society having included, as we have seen, two poets, Denham and 
Cowley, among its members, was fairly entitled to a greeting from the muse. 
This it received through the ingenious pen of Cowley, in verses whose philoso- 
phical truth as Avell as originality of illustration may perhaps still justify 
quotation. After deploring the fate of philosophy, which for three or four 
thousand years had been kept by unwise or dishonest tutors in a state of 
nonage, he tells us : 

Bacon, at last, a mig-lity man! arose, 

Whom a wise kiu^ and Nature chose 

Lord chancellor of both their laws, 

Aud boldly undertook the injur'd pupil's cause. 

From the long errors of the way, 

In which our wandering predecessors went, 

Aud, like the old Hebrews, many years did stray 



140 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

In deserts, but of small cxteut, 

Bacou ! like Moses, led us lorth at last 

Tlie buneu wilderness be pass'd — 

Did on tbe very border stand 

Of the bless'd promis'd land. 

And from the mountain's top of bis exalted wit, 

Saw it himself, and show'd us it. 

If the poet has somewhat overstated the claims of Lord Bacon as the herald 
of experimental philosophy, he seems to have been gifted with a clearer vision 
of the future aclncvements of the Society, which he thus apostrophises : 

From you, great champions ! we expect to get 
Those spacious countries but discover'd yet ; 
Countries where yet, instead of Nature, we 
Her image and her idols worship'd see. 

New scenes of heaven already we espy, 

And crowds of golden worlds on high. 

Which from the spacious plains of earth and sea 

Could never yet discover'd be 

By sailor's or Chaldean's watchful eye. 

Nature's great works no distance can obscure, 

No smallness her near objects can secure: 

Ye'avc taught the curious sight to press 

Into the privates! recess 

Of her imperceptible littleness; 

Ye'ave learn'd to read her smallest hand. 

And well begun her deepest sense to understand. 

Cowley possessed other claims than merely literary ones to scientific fellow- 
ship ; he had taken a degree in medicine and Avritten, elegantly at least, on 
plants and trees. He had besides, as Dr. Sprat assures us, accelerated the 
foundation of the Royal Society by the publication of s^ proposition for the ad- 
vancement of experimental philosophy, which is still found among his works, 
and though the form of his proposed " college" was not adopted, it cannot be 
denied that he has comprehensively, if quaintly, stated the objects to which 
such an institution would necessarily be destined : " To weigh, examine, and 
prove all things of nature, and detect, explode, and strike a censure through 
all false moneys, with which the world has been paid and cheated so long, and 
(as I may say) set the mark of the college iipon all true coins, that they may 
pass hereafter without any further trial. Secondly, it will recover the lost in- 
ventions, and, as it were, di'owned lauds of the ancients. Thirdly, it will im- 
prove all arts which we now have, and, lastly, discover others which we yet 
have not." 

It cannot but aflford a curious insight into the state of natural knowledge at 
this early stage of the labors of the Society, if we glance at the manner iu 
which it proceeded to deal Avith the currency of which Cowley speaks, in order 
to explode what was spurious and accredit what was genuine. With this view 
a few entries from the journal are here given : 

" Dr Clarke was entreated to lay before the Society Mr. Pellin's relation of the production 
of young vipers from the powder of the liver and lungs of vipers. 

"Sir Gilbert Talbot promised to bring in what he knew of sympatbeticall cures. Those 
tbat bad any powder of sympathy were desired to bring some of it at the next meeting. 

" The Duke of Buckingham promised to cause charcoal to be distill'd by his chj'mist, and 
to bring into the Society a piece of unicorue's horn. 

"Sir Kenelui Digby related that the calcined powder of toads reverberated, apjjlyed in 
bagges upon the stomach of a pestiferate body, cures it by several applications. [Digby 
delighted in the marvellous, and is said to have fed bis wife on capons fattened with the 
flesii of vipers, in order to preserve her beauty.] 

" A circle was made with powder of unicorue's borne and a spider set in the middle of it, 
but it immediately ran out scverall times repeated. The spider once made some stay upoa 
the powder. 

"A letter was introduced treating of a petrified city and its inhabitants." &c., &c. 



EOYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 141 

Other entries there are undoubtedly, and in greater number, which show that 
the spirit of inquiry was rajudly finding its true direction : Investigations of 
the mechanical properties of the air, by Boyle ; experiments with the pendu- 
him, by Sir Christopher Wren, who is said to have first suggested its oscilla- 
tions as a standard of measure ; observations on the " anatomy of trees," by 
Evelyn ; instructions for the guidance of curious observers " in the remotest 
parts of the Avorld." Even what now seem ludicrous tentatives with the pow- 
der of toads and vipers, or frivolous inquiries respecting the witch-hazel and 
still more wonderful Lcpas anatifera,* it is more just to regard as obligatory and 
conscientious efforts to bring the questionable opinions of the day, however 
trivial, to the assay of direct experiment. The time will probably not soon 
come when science can claim absolute exemption from like humble labors ; not, 
at least, " While," to borrow the words of Sir Thomas Brown, " the spirit of 
delusion, though expelled from his oracles and more solemn temples, still runs 
hito corners, exercising minor trumperies, and acting his deceits in inferior 
seducers." 

The Restoration, in diffusing a general sense of permanence and security, Avas 
highly favorable to the objects of the association, and Charles II had enough of 
curiosity, perhaps of wisdom, to look with a patronising eye on inquiries which 
threatened to interfere neither Avith his indolence nor pleasures. He held sundry 
communications with the philosophers, and even proposed subjects for investi- 
gation, before proceeding to what has been uncharitably called the only wise 
act of his reign — the incorporation of the Royal Society. 

In the instrument by which this was effected, the King, after protesting his 
zeal for all learning, especially !br those studies Avhich aim by solid experiments 
to strike out something new in philosophy, or bring to perfection what already 
exists, (novam extundcrc jpMlosopliiam aut cxpoUre retcrcm,) declares himself 
founder and patron of the Society, conferring on it the name of the Royal 
Society of Loudon ^^ro scicntia naUirall 2rromovenda.\ 

Its government is deposited iu the hands of a president and council, to the 
number, including the president, of twenty-one, all of whom were, in the first 
instance, nominated by the crown. For the succession, it is provided that an 
election shall annually take place on St. Andrew's day, in which a president 
shall be chosen from among the members of the existing council, and ten of this 
latter body shall be removed, and their places supplied by others ; on which 
occasion not less than thirty-one members of the Society shall be present, (the 
president or his deputy being always one of them,) and a majority of that num- 
ber shall determine the choice in each instance. Other officers of the Society 
are a treasurer, two secretaries, two or more curators of experiments, one clerk, 
besides two mace-bearers to attend on occasion upon the president. PoAver is 
given to the president and council to make from time to time such laAvs and 
ordinances as shall seem to them useful and necessary for the better government 
and regulation of the Society ; and grants of certain pieces and parcels (pr.cios 
et parccllos) of land, of no great extent, are made to the learned body, to be 
held of the croAvn by the tenure of free and common soccage. A somewhat 
singular concession is that which authorizes the Society to demand the bodies 
of such executed criminals as may be desired for dissection — a circumstance 

* Sir Robert Mora}', first president of the Royal Society, sicjnalized the meeting at which 
he WHS elected by presentincr a paper relating to t«r?j«f/fs, in which he affirmed that he had him- 
self seen, in the western isles ot Scotland, trees to which were attached nuiltitudes of shells, 
each containing a small but perfectly shaped sea-fowl, or solan-goose. He candidly confesses, 
however, that he did not see the products of these extraordinary limpets alive. 

t " The epithet natural,'" says Dr. Paris, iu his Life of Sir Humphrey Davy, " was here 
intended to imply a meaning of which few persons are probably aware. At the period of the 
establishment of the Society, the arts of witchcraft and divination were very extensively en- 
couraged, and the word natural was therefore introduced in contradistinction to supernatural." 



142 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

pointing perhaps to the large proportion of medical men which outerecl at that 
time into the asi^ociition. Finally, it is provided that if abuses i^hould occur or 
dissensions arise, the Archbishop of Canterbury and certain high officers of 
state shall be invested with powers for removing such abuses and deciding such 
controversies.* j 

The first j)resident of the Society, after the incorporation, was Lord Brouacker; '^ 
the secretaries, Dr. "Wilkins and Henry Oldenburg; all ap{)ointed by the crown. 
" Some idea may be formed of the activity of the Society at this period by the 
following list of eight committees appointed on the 30th JMarch, 1GG4 : 1. 
Mechanical, consisting of sixty-nine members. 2. Astronomical and optical, 
fifteen members. 3. Anatomical, consisting of Boyle, llookc. Dr. Wilkins, and 
all the physicians of the Society. 4. Chymical, comjjrising all the jthysicians 
of the Society, and seven other Fellows. 5. Georgical, consisting of thirty-two 
members. 6. For histories of trades, consisting of thirty-five members. 7. For 
collecting all the phenomena of nature hitherto observed, and all experiments 
made and recorded, consisting of twenty-one members. 8. For correspondence, 
consisting of twenty members." Oldenburg, about this time, received, as he 
tells Boyle, the agreeable assurance from his correspondents in Paris, that "the 
English })hilosoph(.'rs were doing more for science than all the other nations of 
Europe, as well in curious and detached particulars as in the great works given 
to the public." 

The labors of the Society were destined to be soon interrupted by the ])lague 
of 1G()5, which drove the members very generally from London. Oldenburg, 
however, remained at his post, and continued his correspondence on scientific 
matters during the Avhole period of the pestilence. When the meetings of the 
Society Avere resumed, the sources of the late calamity became naturally a sub- 
ject of investigation, and on this occasion the animalcular origin of the epidemic 
was suggested. But " the vermination of the air as the cause of the plague" 
was supposed to have received its strongest confirmation in Italy, where Dr. 
Bacon, who had long practiced physic at llome, Avas said to have observed that 
" there was a kind of insect in the air Avhich laid eggs hardly discernible with- 
out a microscope; Avhich eggs being, for an experiment, given to be suufied up 
by a dog, the animal fell into a distemper accompanied with all the symptoms 
of the plague." Hooke, however, had observed that, during the summer in 
question, there was, in London at least, a very great scarcity of flies and insects. 
A second interruption of the meetings was occasioned by the "great fire" of 
the following year, for, though the apartments of the Society in Oresham Col- 
lege (;scaped, that edifice was required for the purposes of the corporation of 
London. A removal of the meetings to Arundel House, at the invitation of 
its owner, led in the sequel to a donation of his valuable library, which thus 
became the nucleus of that of the Society. The collection ci insisted of 3,287 
printed books, chiefly first editions after the invention of printing, besides 544 
volumes of Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Turkish, and other rare manuscripts, of 
which the greater part, of both classes, had been purchased in Vienna by an 
ancestor of the noble house, and comprised the curious and costly collection 
formed by the celebrated Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary. About this 
time also the foundations of a museum, or " collection of natural things," was 
foimed, which, it will not surprise us to be told, comprised, among other articles, 
" the stones taken out of Lord Balcarres's heart, a bottle lull of stag's teai'S, a 
pclrified fish, the skin of an antelope which died in St. James's park, a petrified 
foitus," and other equally extraordinary objects, which the language of the age 
not unaptly termed " rarities." The rival museum of tin; Tradescants already 
contained "two feathers of the phoenix tayle" and "a natural dragon!" 

** The charters and statutes of the Society may be seen at large in the appendix to Weld's 
History of tiii; Kovai. Sociktv, a k'arucd and interesting work, ou whose stateuuents the 
present brief account is founded. 



KOYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 143 

A subject whicli at this time attracted geueral attention was the transfusion 
rf blood from the veins of one animal to those of another as a means of restoring 
hcuhli or prohsnging life. As usual, the most extravagant expectations were 
indulged by the unr^'llecting in regard to the eflicacy of this process, and the 
Society, rightly judging the verilication of its virtues to fall within their domain, 
lifter trying with impunity the experiment of transfusion on that customary 
victim of scieutiiic curiosity, the dog, set themselves in quest of a human sub- 
ject for further investigation. It was first proposed to try the pi'actice upon 
" some mad person in Bedlam," probably with a view to test the effects upon the 
mental as well as bodily sanity, but the physician in charge of the hospital re- 
fused his assent. A poor student was, however, soon found, who, for the price 
of a guinea, consented to undergo the operation, and indicated a sheep as the 
animal whose blood he was willing to receive. The experiment was conducted 
at Arundel House, in the presence of the Society and of other distinguished in- 
dividuals, and was attended with such encouraging circumstances as to lead to 
its repetition some weeks afterwards, on which occasion eight ounces of human 
blood were taken, and about fourteen ounces of sheep's blood injected. The 
patient, Ave are told, was " well and merry" after the operation, his pulse and 
appetite being better than before, but respecting the permanence of these good 
results we arc Icit somewhat in the dark. The condition of the patient's mind, 
as well before as after the experiment, may be judged of from the mystical 
reason he assigned, when questioned why he had elected to have the blood of 
a sheep transfused rather than that of some other creature : Sanguis ovis sym- 
bollcam quayidan facultatcm hahet cutn sanguine Christi, quia Christus est 
Agnus Dei. The Society had thus far met with better fortune than some of the 
cotemporary inquirers in both Germany and France, where death had in more 
than one instance been the result of similar proceedings, exposing those Avho 
conducted them to the danger of prosecution for manslaughter. Tidings of 
these disasters at once turned the current of public opinion in England, and led 
to the abandonment of further investigation on the part of the savants. 

There can be no doubt that the inquisitive spirit of the Society, though often 
directed to subjects which no longer appear either dignified or important, had 
already exercised the happiest inliuence on the course and habits of public 
thought. Inquiry was propagated, and a salutary scepticism everywhere man- 
ifested its encroachments on the domain of popular delusion. Under this point 
of view, the iustorian of the Society is justified in signalizing the fact that 
although "during the civil wars upwards of eighty individuals were executed 
in Sufiblk alone for supposed witchcraft, there were but two witches executed in 
England after the Hoyai Society published their Transactions." A body Aviiich 
at once prosecuted researches on the theory of eclipses, the nature of comets, 
and the causes of pestilence, could afford but little countenance to the Avide- 
spread delusion which associated the last of these phenomena in some myste- 
rious concomitance with the two former. When even the scrupulous Boyle had 
thought fit to give to one of his scientific treatises the title of The Sceptical 
Chemist, there could be not much hope for alchemy and its attendant frauds. 
In other fields, too, the habits of philosophical speculation Avhich, if the Royal 
Society did not introduce it; at least eft'ectually promoted by inlluenc(^ and ex- 
ample, gave rise toi-eforms Avliich, as Buckle remarks,* rendered the reign of the 
mean and spiritless A'-oluptuary Charles II one of the brightest epoclis in the na- 
tional annals, with reference to laws then passed and principles then established. 

The zeal of the Society for furthering and stimulating experimental inquiry 
was manifested at an early period by the adoption of a resolution " that such 
of the Fellows as regarded the Avelfare of the Society should be desired to oblige 

'History of Civilization in England, vol. I, p. 275. 



144 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

themselves to entertain it, once a year at least, with a philosophical discourse, 
grounded upon experiments made or to be made ; and in case of fhihire, to for- 
feit «£5." This voluntary engagement on the part of l"'elh)ws, deemed " able 
and likely" to furnish such discourses, was at the same time made an impei'ative 
obligation on each member of the existing council. For one, the indefatigable 
Ilooke is recorded in the journal-book as having produced new experinienta 
and inventions at alniost every meeting. An agent was salaried to traverse 
England and Scotland in search of zoological and botanical specimens, and this 
at a time Avhen a default on the part of many members in the payment of the 
weekly subscription had so crippled the resources of the Society as to render 
even its existence precarious. An active foreign correspondence had contributed 
to secure to it an influence abroad scarcely inferior to that which it enjoyed at 
home, as was testilied by the learned of Europe, among others by Leibnitz, 
Malpighi, and Leuwenhoeck, in the dedication of their Avorks to the Society, or 
a submission of their labors to its judgment. It is a coincidence not unworthy, 
jierhaps, of notice, that about the time Avhen " one Mr. Leuwenhoeck," as we 
lind him called in the correspondence, recommended to the notice of the Society 
his improved microscope, by the assiduous use of which he eventually arrived 
at the distinction of being esteemed "the father of microscopical discoveries," a 
" poor Cambridge student," named Isaac Newton, presented to it his reflecting 
telescnpo, " the first perfect reflector known, and made by the hands of Newton 
himself."* Thus science was simultaneously endowed with the perfected means 
of realizing both terms of Cowley's poetical prophecy — the penetration alike 
"of the crowds of golden Avorlds on high," and "the recesses of nature's imper- 
ceptible littleness." The presentation of the telescope was soon followed by 
the adoption of the inventor into the Society, the year 1671 being the date of 
the accession of the great philosopher, destined, in the eloquent language of Dr. 
Young, " to advance with one gigantic stride from the regions of twilight into 
tlie noonday of science." 

From this period the history of the Royal Society becomes so thoroughly 
interwoven Avith the general history of science that it is manifestly impossible, 
in a sketch necessarily confined within the narrow limits of the present, to do 
more than touch upon a few prominent points illustrative either of the progress 
of the Society or of the knowledge which it has cultivated. 

On the 8th of February, lG71-'72, Newton communicated to the Society his 
investigations respecting " light, refractions, and colors, importing light to be 
not a similar, but a heterogeneous thing, consisting of difibrm rays." For these 
discoveries the author received the " solemn thanks" of the Society, at whose re- 
quest they were jiublished in the J^li'dowphical Transactions, being the first of 
Newton's jjroductions which saw the light. His experiments had been made 
in 1G66, when he was only twenty-three years of age. No sooner, however, 
was his theory of light g'-ven to the world than it was vehemently attacked, 
both as regarded his conclusions and the accuracy of the experiments from 
which they had been deduced; Hooke and Huygheus appearing among the 
number of his assailants. So true is it, as Biot has remarked, that " by un- 
veiling himself Newton obtained glory but at the price of his repose." 



* Newton's telescope, says Weld, was the first reffectin<T telescope directed to the heavens, 
thouj^h .Tames Gieffoiy hail previously (Jt>ti:>) described the manner of constructing one with 
two concave specula. Newton jierceived so p^reat disadvantages in Gregory's plan, that, ac- 
cording to his own statement, "he found it necessary to alter the design, and place the eye- 
glass at the side of the tube, rather than at the middle." Newton's mechanical labors led to 
his being someliuies regarded abroad as a )nakcr of telescopes, and we lind him styled in a 
book of that period, Artifer. (juiilatii <iu<rlus noniine Newton. It is suggestive to consider into 
what gigantic proportions the instrument constructed by the Cambridge student has been 
developed under the hands of Hersciiel and Rosse. Newton's first telescope is nine inches 
long ; the length of Lord Rosse's six-feet reffector is sixty feet. 



ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 145 

In 1686 the MS. of Newton's immortal work, Philosopliice Naturalis Prtn- 
dpia Matlicmatica, was presented to tlie Society ; and being accepted with 
thanks, it was ordered "that the printing of the book be referred to the con- 
sideration of the council, and that it be put into the hands of ]Mr. Hailey to 
make a report thereof." The council, duly sensible of the slenderness of the 
Society's finances at that time, were glad to devolve upon Ilalley, who agreed 
to accept it, the " business of looking after and printing the Avork at his own 
charge." In the course of the preparations for that purpose, it became neces- 
sary for Ilalley to inform the author that Ilooke claimed to have " some pre- 
tensions upon the invention of the rule of the decrease of gravity being recip- 
rocally as the squares of the distances from the centre," though he admitted 
the demonstration of the curves generated thereby to belong wholly to Newton. 
When apprized of this claim, the illustrious geometer determined upon the sup- 
pression of the entire third book of the Principia. "Philosophy," he said, "is 
such an impertinently litigious lady, that a man had as well be engaged in law- 
suits as have to do Avith her. I found it so formerly, and now I am no sooner 
come near her again but she gives me warning." In the controversy relative 
to his optical discoveries he had written to Oldenburg : " I intend to be no 
further solicitous about matters of philosophy, and therefore I hope you will 
not take it ill if you find me never doing anything more in that kind." It 
required much remonstrance and entreaty on the part of Ilalley to induce New- 
ton to abandon his intention of suppressing the third book, De Sijstcmatc Mundi, 
without which the celebrated work might have borne the title, Dc m<Au Cor- 
ponwi Libri duo. In view of all the circumstances it is difficult to deny the 
justice of the remark made in Rcgaud's Essaf/ o?i the First Publication of the 
Principia, that " it is hardly possible to form a sufficient estimate of the im- 
mense obligation which tlie world owes in this respect to Ilalley, without whose 
great zeal, able management, imwearied perseverance, scientific attainments, 
and disinterested generosity the Principia might never have been published." 

Ilalley had been elected a Fellow of the Society in 1G73, on his return from 
his voyage to St. Helena, made chiefly with a view to astronomical observa- 
tions, of Avhich the fruit remains in his Catalogus stellarum australium, but 
rendered subservient also to the science of terrestrial magnetism, of Avhich he is 
styled by a high authority the father and founder. " To liim," says Sir John 
Herschel, "Ave owe the first appreciation of the real complexity of the subject 
of magnetism. It is Avonderful, indeed, and a striking proof of the penetration 
and sagacity of tiiis extraordinary man, that Avith his means of information he 
should have been able to draw such conclusions, and to take so large and com- 
prehensive a vicAV of the stibject as he appears to have done." Ilalley's com- 
munications to the Society on this subject consist of a chart, the first of its 
kind, showing the A^aiiation of the compass, based on the idea of employing 
curA'es draAvn through points of equal declination, and of papers published in 
the ISOth and ]95th numberKS of the Philosnp/iical Tranm'iions. In the last 
of these occurs a striking passage, in Avhich he expresses his belief " that he 
has put it past doubt that the globe of the earth is one great magnet, having 
four magnetical poles or points of attraction ; near each pole of the equator tAvo; 
and that in those pails of the Avorld Avhich lie near adjacent to any one of those 
magnetical poles, the needle is chiefly governed thereby, the nearest poles 
being always predominant over the more remote." Amid the efforts Avhich are 
noAv directed to this sitbject, it Avill not be uninteresting to observe Avith how 
much modesty this early explorer defers the solution of his difficult problem 
to later times. " The nice determination," he says, " of this and of several 
other particulars in the magnetic system is reserved for remote posterity ; all 
that Ave can hope to do is to leave behind us observations that may be confided 
in, and to propose hypotheses Avhich after ages may examine, amend, or refute." 
And he proceeds to urge upon all navigators and lovers of natural truths to 
10 s 



146 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

make or collect observations of this kind in all parts of the Avorlcl, and to com- . 
municate tbcm to tlic Royal Society, "in order to leave as complete a history) 
as may be to those that are hereafter to compare all together, and to complete i 
and perfect this abstruse theory." 

Anotiier science Avhicb at this era engaj^cd the attention of the Society was i 
geology, or, as it was then termed, "the Natural History of the Earth ;" thei 
chief representatives of which, before the Society, appear to have been Dr. 
Lister and Dr. "Woodward. Of the former, Lyell remarks : " He was the first 
who was aware of the continuity over large districts of the principal grouj 
of strata in the British scries, and who proposed the construction of regular . 
geological maps." Woodward published an essay towards a Natural llistoryj 
of the Earth, Avhich attracted much attention and was elaborately reviewed ini 
the Transactions. Dr. Whewell, moreover, has noted as " one of the most re- 
markable occurrences in the progress 6f descriptive geology in England, the for- 
mation of a geological museum by William Woodward as early as 1G95.J 
This collection, formed with great labor, systematically arranged, and carefully j 
catalogued, he bequeathed to the University of Cambridge; founding and eu-t 
dowing at the same time a profes^orshij) of the study of geology. The Wood- 
wardian Museum still subsists, a monument of the sagacity with which its. 
author so early saw the importance of such a collection."* 

An official connexion of the Society with the progress of astronomical obser-:j 
vations resulted from its relations to the observatory of Greenwich (founded^ 
1675,) of which, after having done much to sustain and advance it during the^ 
many years while it remained neglected by government, the Society finally 
became the formal directors or visitors by royal warrant. Under this authority 
the Society are required to exact from the astronomer royal for the time beingj 
an account of the annual observations made, to inspect the instruments of the., 
observatory, and to su])erintend and, if deemed proper, to direct its operations 
If, therefore, so eminent an autliority as jM. Struve has singled it out as a poini 
well worthy of remark and encomium, that the astronomers of this illustrioi 
observatory have maintained one unchanged sj'stem or plan in their laborf 
during the long period from the origin of (be establishment to the present day 
something of this uniformity may reasonably lie ascribed to its connexion witt 
and subordination to a fixed and self-perpetualing body like the Royal Society.) 

The application of steam, which in our day has acquired so astonishing a 
development, did not fail to find among the early Fellows of the Society: 
at least one curious inquirer, whose speculations and projects are preserved ini 
the Transactions. Dr. Papin, inventor of the well-known digester for softening 
bones, and whose " philosophical supper" prepared upon that plan may still be 
enjoyed by the readers of Evelyn's Diary, is noticed in 1690 as having in- 
vented a method of draining mines by the force of " vapor," in which, though 
much was wanting to the practical perfection of the engine, the philosophical 
principle of the condensation as well as elastic force of steam is observed and 
pointed out. At a later pei'iod Dr. l^apiu communicated to the Society an ea 
tension of this principle to the propulsion of boats " to be rowed by oars moved! 
with heat," and had the honor of having his project referred to Sir Isaac; 
Newton, from whom it received a conditional approval.t 

* Woochvarcl, whatever his scientific moit, seems to have beeu of an irascible teuipera-i 
ment. He was expelled from the coimcil of the Society for insulting Sir Hans Sloane andj 
refusing to apologize. He fbnght a duel with Dr. Mead, occasioned by a dispute, as Voltaire,! 
says, sur Id manic re tin purgcr loi midade. Woodward's foot slipped and befell. " Take), 
your lite I" exclaimed Meade. " Anything but your physic," replied Woodward. j 

tThe Ijetter known project of Savery, wliose jngine was able, through the introduction of' 
a vacuum, to perform double tlie work of that devised, at a sti'l earlier day, by the Marqiiisj 
of Worcester, was exiiibited before the Society ( IG9U, ) and the certificate granted by that bodj!: 
to the ingenious contriver, was the means of his obtaiuiug ii patent from the Crowu for tht: 
■manufacture of steam-engines. — Weld, I, 357. ' Ifl 

■ 



ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON 147 

While the Society was thus pursuing its diversified and prosperous career, 
Charles II, " founder and patron," had died, having entertained no inter- 
course with the learned corporation during his later years, except to send it a 
receipt for the cure of hydrophobia, compounded, after the manner of that 
time, of as many simples (agrimony roots, dragon roots, star of the earth, 
&c., &c.) as could well be disposed of in one preparation. Lord Brouncker 
had resigned the presidency after fifteen years of acceptable service, and had 
been followed in succession by Sir Joseph Williamson, (1677,) Sir Christopher 
Wren, (IGSO,) Sir John Iloskins, (1682,) Sir Cyril Wyche, (1G83,) Samuel 
Pepys, (1GS4,) Lord Carbery, (IGSG,) Lord Pembroke, (1G89,) Sir Robert 
Southwell, (1G90,) Lord Halifax, (1G95,) and Lord Somers, (1698.) The 
Society was soon to remove from the precarious quarters which it had here- 
tofore occupied to a house of its own in Crane Court, Strand, and, as appears by 
one of its statutes, had found reason to place some further restriction on the too 
indiscriminate and easy admission of Fellows. 

On the withdrawal of Lord Somers, in 1703, Sir Isaac Newton was elected 
to the presidency, the duties of which he continued to fulfil for 24 years with 
exemplary punctuality. His treatise on Opticks was now presented to the 
Society, a work prepared long before, but which he had decided to withhold 
from publication during the lifetime of Hooke. The remark suggested by the 
death of that able but morose and jealous man of science seems, therefore, to 
be fully justified : La Socicte ij gagnc plus que la gcometnc 7i'ij perd ; but, as 
if the sensitiveness of Newton was doomed never to be freed from impor- 
tunate molestation, the dispute respecting the authorship of the htjinitesimal 
analysis soon supervened; a dispute in which Newton, indeed, maintained his 
usual reserve, but which his own partisans, equally with those of Leibnitz, con- 
ducted with so much asperity and prejudice that the contest might have seemed 
one of honor or interest between Grcrmany and England.* At the instance of 
Leibnitz, a committee was appointed by the lloyal Society, in March, 1712, to 
examine the evidence bearing on the matter in question, and, in April following, 
were submitted, in a report, the reasons which led the committee " to reckon 
Mr. Newton the first inventor." That this did not satisfy or silence the parti- 
sans of Leibnitz will be readily believed ; but at this distance of time we may 
acquiesce in the opinion pronounced by the historian of the Society, that 
Newton was the inventor of Fluxions as early as 1666, but that Leibnitz has 
the merit of having first given full publicity to his discovery of the Differential 
Calculus in 1673. "Had Newton done this," says Mr. Weld, "a controversy, 
painful in its nature and unsatisfactory in its results, would have been avoided. 
But all admit that he labored more for the love of truth than of fame ; and 
this is one of the reasons why Newton is the greatest of philosophers." 

This great man died, on the 20th March, 1727, being, perhaps, the only one 
who lias ever lived whose genius and virtues could sustain the exaltation of 
his epitaph : Sibi grantulentur mortalcs tale tanti/mfpie exstitissc humani generis. 
He was succeeded in the presidency of the Society by Sir Hans Sloane, who 
had long acted as secretary .and vice-president, and whose merits as a botanist, 
habits of business and official assiduity, relieved the council of embarrassment 
in a choice, even after Newton. Martin I'olkes, (elected 1741,) Earl of 
Macclesfield, (1752,) Earl of Morton, (1764,) James Burrow, (1768,)' James 
West, (1768,) Sir John Pringle, (1772,) bring down the succession in the 
■presidency to the protracted official term of Sir Joseph Banks, (1778 — 1820.) 
There are points of interest, however, in this long interval, upon which it is 
proper to touch even in so rapid a sketch as the present. 

* M. Aragfo seems to have been willing to make France a third party to this memorable 
competition, for, in his Notices Biograpliicjues, vol. Ill, p. 522, he brings forward the claims 
of 'his countryman, Fermat of Toulouse, as an earlier inventor of the Calculus than either 
Newton or Leibnitz. 



148 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

From an early date tlio Society scorns to have labored uiuler two especial 
e.a"^^('^^ of eiul)arrassmcnt : want of pecuniary mean?, arising cliiefiy from tlie 
failure of members to pay the stipulated contribution, and a constant tendency 
to extend the honor of membership to persons whose pretensions were of doubt- 
ful validity. We learn with some surprise that, while a few were occasionally 
exempted from the payment of the small weekly contribution, (among whom 
ut one lime was Sir Isaac Newton,) there were many others of ample means 
who suffered their liabilities to accumulate until the Society, to Avhich no 
doubt they prided themselves in belonging, was reduced almost to the point 
of inaction. Nor does it increase our respect for this class of delinquents to 
find that when, in 1728, the Attorney General had given his opinion that the 
Society was authorized to sue for such arrears, and steps were taken for that 
purpose, the liabilities were generally discharged and the Society placed in 
com})arative ease.* The extent of the second inconvenience may be appreciated 
from a saying ascribed to D'Alembert, who, in allusion to the extreme prodi- 
gality with which the honors of the Fellowship were distributed, used "jocularly 
to ask any person going to England if he desired to be made a member of the 
Society, as he couhl easily obtain it for him, should he think it any honor." 
The necessity, thenifore, for some additional restriction being sensibly felt, the 
Society sought legal advice as to their powers in that regard, and were advised 
that, while their charter did not appear to authorize them to limit the Fellows to a 
certain number, it clearly empowered them to describe and ascertain the quali- 
fications of persons to be elected. A statute was thereupon enacted, Avhich has 
since been steadily observed, by \yhich it is required that all candidates, except 
peers and some other privileged persons, shall be proposed at a meeting of the 
Society by three or more members, and that a paper signed by them and set- 
ting forth specifically the qualifications of the candidate, " shall be fixed up in 
the meeting-room at ten several ordinary meetings before the said candidate 
shall be put to the ballot." It appears that candidates were also expected to 
send in a paper on the branch of science with which they were most conver- 
sant. 

Another but more occasional source of disquietude has been a jealousy 
sometimes manifested of undue influence or irregular procedures on the \)iirt of 
the presiding officer. This exhibited itself to some extent even towards New- 
ton in the course of the preliminary steps for the removal of the Society's 
quarters to Crane court; but it broke out with excessive violence against Sir 
Joseph Hanks, in 1784, upon the alleged charge of improper interference with 
elections, and particularly of having favored the pretensions of naturalists in 
preference to tliose of mathematicians. Groundless as this charge is shown to 
have been,t and factious and OA-erbearing as was the conduct of Dr. Ilorseley, 
who, with very slender scientific pretensions, affecttd the leadership of the 
mathematical party, this schism not only disturbed the harmony of the Society, 
but seemed ibr a time to threaten its stability. 

The influential part borne by the Society in the introduction of the reformed 
caleiular into England may render an allusion to it in this place not UTelevant. 
By this change, which took place on the 2d September, 1752, "eleven nominal 
dayswere struck out, so that the last day of old style being the 2d, the first 
of new style (the next day) was called the 14th instead of the 3d. The same 

* Bt'foro tlip inc()rj)oration, ten shillings were required of members on the admission and a 
weekly iiuj'iiu'Ut of one sliilling-. \]y the statutes of J()63 the initiatory fee is advanced to 
forty shillings, tlio weekly payments remaining as before. In 1847 the former charge had 
become ten i)ounds, and the weekly contribution been converted into an annual one of four 
pounds, to be paid in advance. Lib<'rty is given to coQipound for tliewbole by the payment, 
in 8om(3 cases, of forty, in others of sixty pounds. 

t See Lord Brougham's Lives of Philosophers, p. 363. 



ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 149 

legislative enactment which established the Gregorian year in England in 1752, 
shortened the preceding year (1751) by a full quarter. Previously the eccle- 
siastical and legal year was held to begin with the 25th March, and the year 
A. D. 1751 did so accordingly ; that year, however, was not suffered to run 
out, but was supplanted on the 1st of January by the year 1752, which it was 
enacted should commence on that day, as well as every subsequent year."* 

The attcm])t to retrace here, even in the most summary manner, the philo- 
sophical labors of the Society would suggest a start' ing contrast between the 
narrow limits allotted to this outline and the vast field which it would be neces- 
sary to tra^■erse. How mere a catalogue of names and of terms would be the 
result of any attempt to recall those achievements in every department of 
natural science which have distanced imagination and rendered the fictions of 
poetry tame and spiritless in comparison ! Especially would this be the case 
as we approached that wonderful era of discovery, the close of the eighteenth 
century, which suggested to Cuvier the imposing retrospect with which he 
opens the Elogc of Ilaiiy: "The laws of a geometry, as concise as compre- 
hensive, extended over the entire heavens ; the boundaries of the universe en- 
larged, and its spaces peopled with unknown stars ; the courses of celestial 
bodies determined more rigorously than ever, both in time and space ; the earth 
weighed as in a balance; man soaring to the clouds or traversing the seas with- 
out the aid of winds ; the intricate mysteries of chemistry referred to certain 
clear and simple facts ; the list of natural existencies increased tenfold in every 
species, and their relations irrevocably fixed by a survey as well of their in- 
ternal as external structure ; the history of the earth, even in ages the most 
remote, explored by means of its own monuments, and shown to be not less 
wonderful in fact than it might have appeared to the wildest fancy : such is 
the grand and unparalleled spectacle which it has been our privilege to con- 
template !"f And in the realization of each and all of these surprising results 
the Iloyal Society of London has borne its effective part, yielding to none in 
the reflected lustre of its long line of brilliant names : its Herschels, Bradleys, 
Maskclynes, Youngs, Priestleys, Daltons, Watts, Wollastons, Davys, Buck- 
lands, Murchisons, Faradays, and Airys. For, as the illustrious savant just 
quoted has elsewhere said with equal force and generosity, " The philosophers 
of England have taken as glorious a part as those of any nation whatever in 
the labors of the intellect Avhich are the common heritage of the civilized world ; 
they have dared the ices of either pole, nor is there any nook of the two oceans 
which they have not visited ; they have multiplied tenfold the catalogue of the 
kingdoms of nature ; by them the heavens have been made populous with 
planets, satellites, and stupendous phenomena ; they have counted, so to say, 
the stars of the galaxy ; if chemistry has assumed a new face, the facts whTch 
they have furnished have essentially contributed to the transformation; to them 
we are indebted for inflammable air, pure aav, phlogisticated air; they have dis- 
covered the decomposition of water ; new metals in large number have sprung 
from their analyses ; by them only has the nature of the fixed alkalies been 
demonstrated ; finally, at their voice, mechanics has become pregnant with 
miracles, and placed their country above all others in nearly every species of 
productive industry.''^ 

* Herscliel's Astronomy, p. 413. So ^rcat was the popular repugnance to the changje of the 
style or calendar, that the mob pursued the minister in his carriage, clamoring i'or the days 
by which, as they supposed, their lives had been shortened ; and the illness and deatii of the 
astronomer Biadley, who had assisted the government with his advice, was attributed to a 
judgment iVom heaven. It is also related that wlieu the grandson of Lord Macclesfield, who 
had likewise been prominent in effecting the change of style, was standing a contested elec- 
tion for Oxford, the mob insultingly called out to him, "Give us back, you rascal, those 
eleven days which your grandfather stole from us." — Wdd. 

t See Smithsonian Report, 1660, Memoir of Haily. 

t Cuvier, Eloge of Sir Joseph Baulis. 



150 OrJGIN AND HISTORY OF THE 

Among the incentives and rewards of scientific research employed by the 
Society are three medals, derived from funds bequeathed or granted for that 
jjurpose. 1st. The Copley medal, tlie fruit of a legacy bequeathed in 1709 by 
8ir (iodiVcy Copley, and termed by Sir Humphrey Davy "the ancient olive- 
crown of the Itoyal Society," being regarded as the most honorable within its 
gift. Tliis has been annually awarded, with a few intervals, since 1736, in 
conformity with a resolution then adopted by the Society, " that the medal 
should be adjudged to the author of the mo?t important scientific discovery or 
contribution to science, by experiment or otherwise." It cannot but be pecu- 
liarly gratifying to an American to find that when, in 1753, on the death of the 
surviving trustee of the legacy, the adjudication devolved on the president and 
council for the time being, the first award of the medal was made to Dr. 
Franklin, On this occasion the Earl of j\Iacclesfield, in his address as presi- 
dent, stated that the council, " keeping steadily in view the advancement of 
science and uselul knowledge, and the honor of the Society, had never thought 
of conlining the benefaction within the narrow limits of any particular country, 
much less of the Society itself." The money value of this medal is five pounds, 
and it bears as a legend the motto of the Society, KuU'ms in icrha. 2d. The 
Rumford medal, derived from the interest of a fund of 661,000, given by Count 
Kumlbrd, in 1796, for the purpose of promoting discoveries in heat and light. 
This premium is duplicate, consisting of two pieces struck in the same die, the 
one of gold, the other of silver, and by the terms of the gift is to be awarded 
"once every second year." The device on this medal is a tripod with a flame 
upon it, and the inscription from Lucretius, Kosccrc qucB vis ct causa. It is 
gratifying to note that the first adjudication of this prize was justly made to 
the founder himself, "for his various discoveries respecting light and heat," 
while the names of Mains, Fresnel, Melloni, and Biot, among later competitors, 
show that this, too, is freely accorded to foreign merit. 3d. The Royal medal, 
Avhieh, again, is du])licate; consisting of two gold medals of the value of lifty 
guineas each, a beneticence projected by George IV in 1825, thongh not actually 
realized till the reign of his successor. These medals, bearing on one side the 
likeness of the reigning monarch, and on the reverse the figure of Sir Isaac 
Newton, with emblematical accompaniments, are given for such papers only, on 
important and completed discoveries, as have been presented to the Royal 
Society, and inserted in their Transactions. Here, also, the distinguished names 
of Struve, Encke, Mitscherlich, and De Candolle, in the list of recipients, ap- 
prise us that this recompense has been liberally offered to the competition of 
all countries. 

The subjects for Avhich these prizes have been awarded are almost too multi- 
farious for classification, and aftbrd no indifi'erent criterion of the astonishing 
progress which has been made " since the day when the founders of the Royal 
Society went forth to collect May dew for its supposed cosmetic virtues, or with 
the Virgula dirina in search of the hidden treasures of the earth." Yet those 
early inquirers are i)erhaps not less entitled to honor for the fidelity and hero- 
ism (for heroism it was at that epoch) with Avliich they adhered to experiment 
amidst the difiiculties and obscurity which surrounded them, than those who, 
following them in the nse of the same irresistible instrument, continued to press 
forward with firmer and more rapid steps in the pursuit of abstract science, as 
if conscious that in //lat and its applications rested the sole hope for mankind of 
any leal and sustained progression. Nor can either of the two classes cited 
justly claim pre-eminence over the intrepid explorers of to-day, who, undeterred 
by the seemingly exhaustive research to which the heavens and the earth have 
been subjected, still lift their minds to new and mightier enterprises, and, having 
encircled the entire globe with observatories and observers, shrink not from 
grnpj)ling with problems as subtle and inconstant as magnetism or the winds, 
and vast as the secular movements of suns and constellations. 



KOYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 151 

'Wheu we reflect," says Mr. Weld, "on the benefits conferred on mankind 
by the discoveries of modern science, Englishmen must feel an honest pride in 
the fact that so large a proportion have emanated from the Fellows of the Royal 
Society. Nor will that pride be diminished, when it is remembered that from 
first to last the Society has received no annual pecuniary support from govern- 
ment, nor assistance of any kind, beyond the grant of Chelsea College, shortly 
after their incorporation, and more recently, the use of the apartments they now 
occupy in Somerset House.* While the members of the French Institute re- 
ceive a yearly stipend, the Fellows of the lloyal Society pay an annual sum for 
the support of their institution and the advancement of science. It would be 
repugnant to the feelings of Englishmen to submit to the regulations of the 
Institute, which require official addresses, and the names of candidates for ad- 
mission into their bod3% to be approved by government before the first are 
delivered or the second elected. The French saran-s are, it is true, ennobled 
and decorated by orders, which the wiser among them, in common Avitli true 
philosophers of any country, regard with indiil'erence. Nobly did Fourier say 
of Laplace : " Posterity, which has so many particulars to forget, will little cai'e 
whether Laplace was for a short time minister of a great state. The eternal 
truths which he has discovered, the immutable laws of the stability of the world, 
are of importance, and not the rank which he occupied." 

As a consequence of this independence and self-support, it was necessary that 
the Royal Society should be numerous, and by a consequence not less necessary, 
as Cuvier remarks, " that, as in all political associations where the participation 
of the citizens in the government is in inverse ratio to their number, those to 
whom the Society intrusts its administration should exercise over its labors, and 
to a certain extent over the course and progress of science, an influence more 
considerable than can be readily conceived of by the academies of the conti- 
nent." That the Society has been fortunate in the zeal and ability of those 
callvd to jjresidc over it, will have been observed in the course of the preceding 
sketch. It remains to be added that, on the death of Sir Joseph Banks, in 1820, 
the chair was for a short time occupied by Dr. Wollaston,t followed in the same 
year by Sir Ilumphrey Davy ; by Davies Gilbert, in 1827 ;f the Duke of Sus- 
sex, in 1830 ; the Marquis of Northampton, in 1S3S ; Earl of Rosse, in 1849 ; 
Lord Wrotteslcy, in 1854; Sir Benjamin Brodie, in 1858; and General Sabine, 
in 1S61. The latter still worthily occupies the chair. 

As something has been said above of financial embarrassments at an earlier 
period of the Society, it is gratifying to state, on the authority of Mr. Weld, 
referring to the year 1848, that this condition of things is wholly changed; be- 
sides certain tracts of laud, the Society then held in the public funds upAvards 
of d£33,000 ; its incomcibeing derived from rents, dividends, annual subscriptions, 
admission fees, compositions, and sale of Transacticms and Pro'seedings. The 
number of Fellows, at the same date, was 821, of whom thirteen were honorary 
and forty-seven foreign. The library of the Society, then containing upwards 
of 40,000 volumes, is extremely rich in the best editions of scientific books. 
Fellows are allowed to borrow books under certain regulations, though still more 
use is made of the library for purposes of reference. 

The sessions of the Society commence in November and continue until June. 
At the ordinary meetings, after the usual preliminary business, one of the sec- 
retaries announces the pi'esents made to the Society, Avhich arc so numerous that 

* WbitLer the Society removed in 1780. 

t lu rcfcicnce to the extraordinary tact and acuteness of Wollaston as a physicist, it was 
said by Magendie that "his hearing was so lino ho might have been thought to be blind, and 
his sight so jjiercing he might have been sui)posed to be deaf." 

tMr. Gilbert will be remembered by Americans as having pronounced the eulogy on Smith 
son, contained in the first Smithsonian Annual Keport. 



152 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 

their titles fill, on an average, two folio pages weekly during the session. 
Certificates of candidates for election arc then read, and next such i)aper or pa- 
pers as may have been communicated to the meeting. For these papers formal 
thanks are returned, and they become thenceforth the property of the Society. 
Discussion on the subject treated of in the paper follows, after which the meet- 
ing is adjourned, and "the Fellows repair with their friends to the library where 
they partake of tea, a custom introduced, it is stated, by Sir Humphrey Davy. 
A conrcrsazione ensues, which lasts until about eleven o'clock. The council 
meets monthly, or more frequently, if necessary. The scientific committees 
assemble as occasion requires. Those annually appointed are : Mathematics, 
astronomy, physics, chemistry, geology, botany, zoology, and animal physiology. 
The number of members varies from fifteen to thirty, the latter number rcpre- 
scntin"- that of physics which is the largest. The FMlosophical Transactions 
are "-enerally pubfished in two parts, (June and November,) Avhich form a vol- 
ume, though occasionally a third or even a fourth part appears. Besides the 
Transactions, abstracts of the papers and minutes are published monthly, and 
these, now extending to more than ten volumes, are entitled Proceedings of the 
Royal Society. 



A BRIEF SKETCH 



MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



BY CHARLES M. WETHERILL, PH. D., M. D. 



After the electric current had been applied to the decomposition of inorganic 
bodies, and it had been discovered that hydrogen, the metals, and the bases 
appeared at the negative pole, while oxygen, chlorine, and the acids were mani- 
fested at the positive pole, the assumption that electrical attraction Avas the 
bond of union in chemical combinations was very natural, and the electro- 
chemical theory growing out of these experiments became speedily adopted by 
chemists. The theory explained satisfactorily all known phenomena ; it gained 
additional support from the discovery that the chemical elements and com- 
pounds were separated by electricity from their combinations in the ratio of 
their equivalents. In those days it was assumed, and at the present time it 
is manifest, that any theory not embracing organic as well as inorganic com- 
pounds would be untenable, and hence arose the radical theory, first applied 
to inorganic salts, but afterwards thoroughly studied and developed in respect 
to organic compounds. 

As the present sketch is intended less for chemists than for others who may 
be confused at the appearance of the formulae of organic compounds given iu 
modern chemical essays, the author may be pardoned iu citing facts and 
formulae trite to chemists. He would also take occasion here to accredit to the 
Lehrbuch of Graham Otto many of the illustrations, as well as some of the 
ai'guments, employed in the present sketch. 

The nature of electrical attraction renders the idea of hinary compounds in 
chemi.stry imperative, if we assume that electricity is the bond of union in such 
compounds. 

Berzelius imagined the elementary atoms laden with electricity and with 
positive and negative poles, but so that in the atom of one element the positive 
electricity predominated, while in that of another element the negative elec- 
tricity was in excess. This excess of (+ or — ) electricity communicated its 
characters to the clement, making it positive or negative. If two atoms of dif- 
ferent electrical character are brought sufficiently near to each other, they 
mutually attract each other, forming a compound atom, which is itself positive 
or negative according to the predominance of one kind or the other of its 
electricity. The new compound atom was, therefore, susceptible of further 
attraction by another compound atom of diflPerent electricity, and so on, the 
attraction becoming weaker as the compound atom becomes more complex. 

Ampere imagined the atoms of positive elements to have positive nuclei with 
negative atmospheres or envelopes, and atoms of the negative elements to have 
negative nuclei and positive envelopes. Hence a positive and a negative atom 
upon coming together would mutually polarize each other ; the -\- and — E of 
their nuclei would draw them together to form a compound, and the i E of 



15-1 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



tlieii- rcs[)OCtive ciivoloiJCS would be driven oft' and combiue to produce the 
electrical i»lieuomeiia always attending cliemical action* 

According to tlii.s view all cliemical compounds are hinarrj; tliey are 
capable of being decom])o,sed by the clc-ctric current, whicb attracts tlie atoms 
from caeli other according to their character, the positive appearing at the 
negative pole, the negative at the positive pole. 

In writing forinulai the positive atom or atom group is placed before the 

+ .. + _ + _ 

negative one, thus : KO; SO3; KO, SO3.T 

The most comidex formulaj are constructed according to this binary method. 
In alum = K() 80:) + AL O3 oSOs + 24IIO the sulphate of potassa atom 
is ])osilive, and united to an electro-negative atom of sulphate of alumina to 
form a still more complex atom of positive character, which is united to the 
negative grou]) of atoms 24110. When, hoAvever, the atom becomes so com- 
plicated, it is difficult to determine the electro-chemical character of its imme- 
« — 

* For views as to polarity in cliemical compouuds, see the excellent treatise upon the cata- 
lytic force, by T. L. Phipsou, Smithsonian Report for JdG2, page 395. 

t For the coiiveiiiejice of tliose whose memory may requiie refreshing as to chemical 
symbols and combining quantities, or atomic weights, we subjoin the following table. 



SYMBOLS AND PROPORTIONAL NUMKERS OF THE ELEMENTS. 
(From Odimg^s Manual of Chemistry.) 



H 

Fl 
CI 
IJr 
I 

O 

S 

Se 

T 

N 

P 

As 

Sb 

Bi 

C 

Si 
Ti 
Sn 
Ta 



Li 
Na 
K 

Ca 
Sr 
Ba 

G 
Y 

Th 



Hydrogen 1 

Fluorine 19 

Qhloiiiie 35. 5 

Bromine 80 

Iodine 127 

Oxvgen IG* 

Sulphur 32* 

Selenium 80* 

Tellurium 128* 

Nitrogen 14 

Pliosjihorous 31 

Arsenic 75 

Antimony, (Stibium) 120 

Bismuth 20d 

Carbon 12* 

Silicon 28. 5* 

Titanium 48. 5* 

Tin, (Stannum) 118* 

Tantalum 13S* 

Boron 11 

Lithium 7 

Sodium, (Natrium) 23 

Potassium, (Kulium) 39 

Calcium 20 

Strontium 44 

Barium 08. 5 

Glucinum 4.7 

Yttrium 32 

Thorium 5D. 5 



M'g 
Zn 
Cd 

Hg 
Pb 

Ag 

Cr 

Mn 

Fe 

Ni 
Co 
Cu 

Al 

Zr 

Ce 

La 

D 

U 

Mo 
Yd 
W 

Au 

Ro 
Ku 
Pa 

Pt 
Ir 

Os 



Magnesium 12 

Zinc 32. 5 

Cadmium 5G 

Mercury, ( Ihidrargyriim) .. 100 

Lead, ( IHumbum) 103. 5 

Silver, (Argentuiit) 108 

Chromium 26 

Maganese 27 

Iron, (Ferru)ji) 28 

Nickel 29 

Cobalt 30 

Copper, (Cuprum) 31. 7 

Aluminum 13. 7 

Zirconium 33. 5 

Cerium 46 

Laulhammi 47 

Didymium 48 

Uranium GO 

Molybdenum 48 

Vanadium 68. 5 

Tugsten, (Wolfram) 92 

Gold, ( Auru)n) 197 

Rhodium 52 

Ruthenium 52 

Palladium 53 

Platinum 98.5 

Iridium 98. 5 

Osmium 99. 5 



* These elements have had their equivalentB doubled to conform to the type theory. 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. J 55 

diate constituents. In the above example the 24HO may be driven off by heat, 
but not by electricity simply; and from other considerations it is impossible to 
decide from analysis alone whether water is an acid or a base, as it possesses, 
according to the suhstance with which it is combined, each of these characters; 
in oil of vitriol it is a base HO SO3 ; in hydrate of potassa, an acid KO HO. 

There is still another method of imagining the grouping of. the atoms in a 
complex atom to form a binary compound. This involves the cnsence of the 
radical theory. 

SO3 docs not redden litmus nor form salts with bases ; its compound with 
HO (oil of vitriol) possesses this property. We may imagine this acid to be 
HO, SO3, according to the principles just laid down ; or to be H SO4, a binaxy 
compound, in which H is + and SO4 is — . If for hydrogen we substitute potas- 
sium or any metal, we will have sulphate of potassa or the salt corresponding to 
the metal. SO4 is, therefore, a compound radical in the sense in which the word 
has been employed in chemistry, although it has not been isolated. "When 
water and anhydrous sulphuric acid are brought together, this compound radical 
is generated by the decomposition of water in the manner illustrated above. 

It is, however, more particularly in the case of the bases that the theory of 
compound radicals has been developed. 

The example of ammonia illustrates an inorganic compound radical ; if, in- 
deed, it may at present be called inorganic. 

The gas ammonia XII3 (in a manner analogous to that of anhydrous sulphuric 
acid) acquires basic properties only by the action of water; NH3, H0 = NH4 0. 
NH4 is the compound radical, ammonium. It has never been isolated ; it is an 
hypothetical group of atoms playing the part of a metal. 

The following table illustrates the parallelism existing between compound 
and simple inorganic radicals : 

Comp. radical ammonia. Simple radical potassa. 

+ - + - 

NH4 + ") Oxide. ^ K + 

NH4 + S ! Sulphide. J K + S 

^\U + CI f Chloride. ) K -f CI 

NIi4 + SO4 3 Sulphate. (. ^ + ^^4 

When organic chemistry began to be developed, the compounds first studied 
were those containing different proportions of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, 
together with a few containing nitrogen. These were studied in their analogies 
to inorganic compounds, and the assumption of a large number of organic 
radicals became imperative. For example, if ether (C4 H5 O) were the oxide 
of a radical (C4 H5) called ethyl, the compounds of ether could be brought into 
comparison with those of oxides of the different metals, (C4 H5,) being a com- 
pound organic radical, which group of atoms plays the part of a metal, thus : 

Ethyle (C4H5) 

Ether (04115)0 

Alcohol (C4H5)0, HO 

Chloride of ethyle (C4H5)G1 

Nitrate of the oxide of ethyle (C4H5) 0, NO5 

Acetate of the oxide of ethyle (C4n5)0,(C4H3)03 

Sulphate of the oxide of ethyle (C4ll5)0, SO3 

Sulphovinic acid (C4Hr,)0, SO3 + HO, SO3 

Sulphovinate of the oxide of zinc (C4H5)0, SO3 -\- ZnOSOa 

Potassium K 

Potassa KO 

Hydrate potassa KO, HO 

Chloride potassium KCl 



156 THE MODEKX THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 

Nitrate potassa KO, NO5 

Acetate potassa KO, (€4113)03 

Sulj)li.ito potassa KO, SO3 

Bisiilphate potassa KO.SOa + HO, SO3 

Sulphate potassa and zinc KO, SO3 4- ZuO, SO3 

Upon tliis principle, and notwithstanding tlie fact that for a long time the 
organic nulicals were entirely hyi)0tli(.'tical, the development of organic radicals 
went jmri passu with the study of organic compounds. The following illus- 
tration shows how the organic acids were subjected to the radical theory. 

Acetic (0.211)03 with radical acetylc (0211) 

Propionic (O4H:0O3 " propyle . . . (04113) 

Butyric (08ll7)03 " butyle . - - . (CaH,) 

Valerianic (OioIIg)03 " valyle.... -. (O10II9.) ^^c. 

The theory is so simple, so well known, so satisfactory in the explanation 
of the phenomena to which it is applicable, that the reluctance to abandon it, 
especially by chemists educated under its influence, is natural. That it has 
been attacked vigorously, and almost to its fall, is owing to the present great 
wealth of chemical compounds, and the discovery of phenomena Avhich cannot 
readily, if at all, be brought in subjection to it. 

Daily the realm of chemistry is extending, and the boundary line between 
organic and inorganic compounds is becoming more and more indistinct. If to 
the atoms of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen has been assigned a 
greater facility of mutual chemical attraction, the reason lies less, perhaps, in a 
peculiarity of the nature of these atoms, than in the kind of experiments to 
which they have been subjected. Continually, elements formerly called in- 
organic are added to organic compounds, and it is not too much to expect that 
the same chemical attractions exist between all of the elements as between 
C, H, 0, and N inter illis. If the right of combining, in indefinite number of 
atoms, the original organic elements, gives rise to so many " changes,'" i. e., com- 
pounds, what would it be if each of the sixty-four elements could play an equal 
part with these? 

The number of possible chemical compounds would approach infinity, and 
could only be conceived by the aid of comparison. It would be no exaggeration 
to compare their number Avith the distance from the earth of the fixed stars ex- 
pressed in feet, or even with the diameter of that great orbit in which our solar 
system is supposed to be moving. 

It is true that theories are not formed to xaQQt future y^^axit?,; but, nevertheless, 
a general consid(;ration that the radical theory Avas becoming daily insufficient 
for the rapid increase of chemical facts, urged thoughtful men to invent a theory 
which should, at least, generalize chemical compounds, and bring them into the 
proper order and connexion to render their more perfect study possible. A 
satisfactory theory has not yet been invented, and chemists are loath to aban- 
don totally the electro-radical theory for that of types pure and simple. 

While the radical theory was in a very flourishing condition, certain newly ob- 
served phenomena demonstrated that avc could substitute electro-negative chlo- 
rine for electro-positive hydrogen in a compound M'ithout changing the chemical 
character of the body to a great extent. Thus, by the action of chlorine (01) 
upon olefiant gas, (O4 H4,) four Dutch chemists had many years ago discovered a 
peculiar compound, whicli has received the name of Dutch liquid, and which 
has the comjtosition C4 H4 OI2. When \\\K)\\ this body the action of chlorine 
was continued, supported by sun light, it was discovered that a series of liquids 
could be obtained having the samt; character as Dulch liquid, but differing in 
that the hydrogen was replaced atom by atom by chlorine, thus : 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. ^57 

Dutch liquid C4H4CI2 — (C4H4)Cl2 

1st substitution C4H3CI3 = (^4 { Qi^Gh 
2d " C4H2CI4 = (C4 1 ^^Qoh 

3d " C4H CI5 = fCi I ^JC12 

4tll " C4CI6 — (C4Cl4)Cl2 

If upon the members of this series an alcoholic solution of potassa act, one 
equivalent each of hydrogen and chlorine is separated, and we obtain the fol- 
lowing compounds ; 

TT \ 

From Dutch liquid C4H4C12 we obtain C4^,,^ > 

" 1st substitution O4H3CI3 " C47,j | 

" 2d " C4H2CI4 " C}^^^ I 

" 3d " C4HCI5 " C4Cli; 

which demonstrates that in Dutch liquid and its chlorine compounds the latter 
element exists in two conditions : one in which it takes the place of hydrogen, 
atom by atom, and another in which it unites with carbon and the compound 
atom thus formed. In other words, the negative atom of chlorine drives out 
and takes the place of the positive atom of hydrogen. To bring these phe- 
nomena in accord with the former electro-chemical theory, we would have to 
assign to the atom of chlorine a preponderating positive and a negative charac- 
ter at the same tim:-, which was deemed inadmissible. 

The same difficulty occurred with respect to the negative atom oxygen, to 
which, according to some, a place had to be assigned sometimes inside of the 
positive I'adical. 

The behavior of acetic acid with chlorine gas in sun-light affords a strik- 
ing example of the substitution of CI for H. By this reaction, from C4 H4 O4 
(acetic acid) there arises, by the substitution of chlorine for hydrogen, chlor- 

acetic acid, ( C4 pi ? O4 I and between the two acids there is a great chemi- 
cal similarity. They each saturate the same amount of base, and when acted upon 
by the same reagents, give rise to analogous products. Thus, by heating with 
excess of alkali, acetic acid becomes carbonic acid (2 C Oo) and light carburetted 
hydrogen, (O2 H4,) while by the same treatment chloracetic acid becomes 

2 C O2 and C2 pi [ or chloroform, Avhich may be regarded as light carburetted 

hydrogen, in Avhich a portion of the hydrogen is replaced by chlorine. By the 
action of nascent hydrogen, chloracetic acid is regenerated to acetic acid. It 
is true that these difficulties might be reconciled by the assumption of both a 
negative and positive character being assumed under different circumstances 
by the same atom. This must be done in certain instances to bring the mod- 
ern type theory in accord Avith the electro-chemical theory, and, indeed, the 
experiments of Schoenbein upon ozone, and the phenomena of the action of 
certain bodies in the " nascent" state, would render this assumption not un- 
likely ; but the immediate result of the experiments cited was to hold the 
electro-chemical theory in abeyance, and to develop the theory of types. 

The first type theory was a theory of the classification of chemical com- 
pounds, and was analogous to the natural history system of classification into 
orders, genera, and species. There was a "molecular" or "mechanical" type 



IT)!^ THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 

which corrcppoiulod to the "order;" a "chemical" type to the "genus;" aud 
the various meniberd under the same chemical type corresponded to the 
" species." 

Compounds of the same molecular type consisted of the same number of 
atoms; hut not in binary groups, as the electro-chemical theory required. 

Under each molecular type were the chemical types, consisting of tin; same 
number of atoms (as before) but similarly arranged. The individuals of the 
Bamc chemical type consisted of the same number of atoms, similarly arranged, 
but dirtering iu the kind of atoms. The following example will illustrate the 
theory : 

MOLECULAU TYPE OF TWELVE ATOMS. 

, , 1 . 1 X f Acetic acid 04114^)1 > Individuals of 1st chemical 

1st chemical type J (ji,io,aeeticacid. 04 01,1104 ] type. . 

-, 1 , . 1 ^ i Alcohol C4 He O2 ) Individuals of 2d chemical 

2d chemical type <,r . r^ n i^ } + 

•^ ^ ( iUercaptan O4 tie b-z } type. 

These all bi-loug to the same molecular type of twelve atoms. The iirst 
two and the last two belong, respectively, to the same rliemlcul type; the atoms 
are regarded as being similarly arranged, because acetic and chloracetic acids, 
on the one side, and alcohol and mercaptan on the other, bear a great analogy 
to each other in their compounds and in the proilucts of their decomposition by 
the same reagents. The following method was adopted for writing the for- 
mulfe according to this theory : 

Acetic acid O4 ^^ [ O4 

Chloracetic acid C4 yy^ > O4 

Acetate of potassa C4 ,.^ > O4 

Acetic ether C4 ,.-, v'r \ ^ O4 

(U4il5J ) 

Chloracetic ether C4 ,^\i . \ O4 

V^4-t-t5J ) 

The following contain Cg Ilg O4, but the atoms are arranged differently 

Butyric acid Cg ^' I O4 

Acetic ether ^•^ fO H) 1 ^-^ 

Propionate of methyle Cg /^ il \ ? O4 

It will be observed that chlorine, in the type, takes the place of the upper 
hydrogen atoms and potassium, and the radicals the place of the lower ones, 
thus indicating the diiTerent nature of the several hydrogen atoms iu the type ; 
and, furUier, that this theory was obliged to assent to the idea of " radicals," 
namely, groups of atoms playing the part of single atoms. 

The type theory met with many supporters, some of them the best thinkers 
which have enriched modern chemistry ; it met with many variations, some 
of which penetrated far into the realms of fancy; but it would probably have 
fallen into disuse had not the discovery of the compound ammonias directed 
the att(!Utioa of the chemical world to this method of imagining the constitution 
of chemical compounds. 

At the same time that attention to this subject was arrested, homologous 
scries were discovered, (by a type theorist,) and important laws with respect, 
to them, such as the relative boiling points of their members, their vapor den-> 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



159 



sity, atomic volumo, &c., became known ; out of which accessions to our knowl- 
edge was developed the modern type theory. 

The compound ammonias are bases bearing a very great analogy to ammo- 
nia, their salts being strictly analogous. By the former radical theory it would 
be" impossible to assign to them satisfoctory formulae ; but by the assumption 
that they are constituted after the pattern or type of ammonia, their formula} 
become very simple. They are ammonias, in which one or more atoms of hy- 
drogen are replaced by one or more radicals, thus : 



Type H > N = Ammonia. 
H) 

Efhylamine. Diethylamine. 

(C.Hs) ) (C4H5) ) 

H S N. (C4H5) } N. 

H N H N 



Triethylamine. 

(CJI5) ) 



The laws alluded to above which enable a more correct conception of the 
chemical constitution of bodies are as follows : 

1. T//e hat) of even atoms. — The remarkable fact has been discovered that 
(the cqivalents of and H being 8 and 1) by far the greatest number of 
organic compounds contain an even number of carbon atoms ; further, that the 
nmi of the atoms of hydrogen, chlorine, iodine, bromine, nitrous oxide, (N O4.) 
nitrogen, and metal is an even number ; which is also true for the sum of their 
oxygen and sulphur-atoms. For example, in Benzoic acid Ch Hg O4 the number 
of cai'bon atoms is an even number, and so is that of the hydrogen and of the 
oxygen atoms. 

2. The law of atomic volume. — The greater portion of organic compounds ex- 
perience in the vaporous condition a condensation during the combination of 
their elements to four volumes — in other words, in the state of vapor their 
atom occupies four times the volume of an oxygen atom. This, law, it will be 
remembered, is seen by comparing the quotients arising from a division of the 
equivalents of compounds by the speciiic gravity of their vapors, and gives the 
result that the atomic volume of the atoms of the elements and their compounds 
bear a simple relation to each other, as may be seen from the following table, 
which is quoted from its bearing upon the type theory : 



Names of bodies. 



Suiphur 

Oxygen 

Phosphorus 

Hytlrogen 

Nitrogen 

Chlorine 

Bromine 

Iodine 

Water 

Sulphuretted hydrogen 

Carbonic acid 

Protoxide of nitrogen. 
Deutoxide of nitrogen. 

Hj-drochloric acid 

Ammonia 

Chloride of ethyle 

Acetic acid 

Valerianate of ethyle. 



Symbol. 



S 

o 

p 

n 

N 

CI 

Br 

I 

HO .... 
HS 

CO2 

NO 

NO, 

HCl 

NH3 

C4 Hi CI. 

C4 H4 O4. 

Ch Hi4 O4 



Division of the 
equiv. by the 
sp.gr. of vapor. 



Relative atomic 
volume. 



2.41 

7. 22 
7.22 
14.44 
14. 44 
14.44 
14.44 
14. 44 
14.44 
14.44 
14.44 
14.44 
28.88 
28. 88 
28.88 
28.88 
23.83 
23.88 



Atomic volume. 
Oxygen = 1. 



160 



THE MODERN TIIEOKY OF CHEMICAL TYPES, 



So closely do clicm'cal compounds conform to this law that it is uped daily 
to control vapor density determinations ; the experiments show whetlier the 
condensation is to 1, 2, or 4 volumes, and whether, accordingly, the equiva- 
lent of the body is to be divided by 7.22, 14.44, or 28.88, to calculate the den- 
sity of its vapor. The calculation is more accurate than the actual experiment 
on account of the superior accuracy by which the equivalents have been deter- 
mined. The law of even atoms, and the observation that in most organic com- 
pounds the condensation is to 4 volumes, serve often to determine the formulae 
of organic compounds. Thus, to acetone was formerly assigned the formula 
C3 II3 0. which salisiics neither law; by doubling its formula (and there is 
no chemical reason to the contrary) it becomes Co Hy O2, which satisfies both laws. 
For the same reason the formula of ether ( C4 II 5 O) may be doubled to Cs IIio O2. 

A"-ain : it has been doubted from its origin and chemical behavior whether 
amyie obtained from amy lie alcohol (Cio Ui> (h) should have the formula Cm 
Hii, or C20 II-.'2 ; but the latter formula agrees with the law of even atoms, and 
with a condensation to four volumes. 

3. T/iC law of homologous scries. — Another law influencing strongly the de- 
termination of chemical formulae, and which is one of the most remarkable 
among the discoveries of modern chemistry, is that of homologous series. 

The following is an example : 

Sr.iMKS (C„ II„x2-) 



Etbylo butyle 
Ethyle amyle 

Butyle 

Butyle amyle 
Aniylo 



Boiling point. 



C,2 Hx4- 
C14 Hi6- 



f C4 H. _ 

I C« H, \ — 
<s C4 H5 }_ 
\ C,„H„ ^- 

S ^8 H9 \ p TT 

J Cs H9 ^-CioHis 

{ Cs Ho \ .pi TT 

j C.oHn^-^'^^^" 

5 ClO Hll ? p TT 



02° C. 

108° 
132^ 
158° 



Sp. gr. at 
00 U. 



0.701 
0.707 
0. 710 
0.725 
0.741 



Sp. gr. of 
vapor. 



2.97 
3.4G 
3.94 
4.42 
4.91 



The membci's of this series are subject to the "same law ;'^ they advance 
from the lowest by an increment of C2 Il2- A general formula for the scries 
Avould be C„ H(„4. 2,) n being an even whole number. Their boiling points 
as well as their spccilic gravities in the liquid and in the vaporous condition 
rise gradually. We haA'e, from its position in this series, an additional reason 
why amyle should have the formula C20 II22. and not do Hu, Indeed, as may 
be seen in the table, amyle is regarded as having (in combination) do IIu> but, 
when in the free state, two of its atoms arc joined together to form a compound 
atom C2r Il2c- The following are additional illustrations of homology 



I. IIVDHOrAnRONS. 

(c„n,.) 

Ethylene d H4 

Propylene Cc He 

Butylenc Cg Us 

Amylene Cjo liio 

Olecne C12 II 12 



II. ACIDN. 

Cu Hu O4. 

Formic C2 H2 O4 

Acetic C4 H4 O4 

I'ropionic Co Hg O4 

Butyric vOy Ilg O4 

Valerianic •. . . Ctoliio04 

Palmitic C32 II32 O4 

Stearic Cac H36 O4 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



161 



IV. Bases. 

CnH(„_5)N) 
Aniline CiaH^ N 

Toluidiue... CuHg N 
Xylidine ... CieHuN 
Cumidine ... Ci8 H13 N 
Cy midine ... C20 H15 N 



V. Hydrocarbons. 

CuH(n_6) ) 

Benzole do Hg 

Toluole Ci4 Ha 

Xylole CieHio 

Cumole Cig H12 

Cymole C20 H^ 



III. Alcohols 

C,H(u+2^02) 

Formylic C2 H4 0> 

Ethylic C4 He O2 

Propylic .... Cg Hg 0. 

Butylic Cg Hio 0. 

Amylic do H12 0. 

Aetbalic C32 H34 O2 

The most remarkable phenomenon connected with homologous series is not 
the uniform law according to which the formulae are developed ; but that the 
successive increment of the atoms C2 H2 contributes to a certain regularity of 
physical and chemical character ; thus, neighbors in the series have greater 
analogy to each other than to more distant members. The acids and alcohols 
quoted advance (at the normal temperature) by degrees from liquids to solids; 
and chemically, formic and acetic acids on the one hand, and palmitic and ste- 
aric acids on the other are analogous. The boiling points increase with regu- 
larity ; for example, in series II and III every addition of C2 H2 adds 19° C. 
to the boiling pointr. Though this regularity of boiling point applies to other 
series, the difference is not the same for all ; thus in series V every increment 
of C2 H3 adds 24" C. to the boiling point. 

It would create too great a diversion from the main object of the present 
article to enter further upon the nature of homologous series. The curious law 
may, however, be cited with respect to certain series of acids, ethers, and alco- 
hols, viz : that if two of them have an equal number of hydrogen and oxygen 
atoms, and one has X more atoms of carbon, the latter will boil at X 14.5 degrees 
centigrade higher. For example : 

Benzoic acid, C^ Hq O4 ; boiling point, 253- 
Propionic acid, Cg Hg O4 ; " 137 



Difference, 

Angelica acid. 
Butyric acid. 



C 



IIG'^ 



8 X 14.5 

Cio H3 O4 ; boiling point, 185- 
d H8O4; " 15G = 



Difference, C2 



2 X 14.5 = 29- 



On the other hand, if the number of atoms of carbon and oxygen is the 
same, and one compound contains X equivalents less of hydrogen, its boiling 
point will be X 5 C.° higher. 

Angelica acid, Cio H3 O4 ; boiling point, 185'° 
Valerianic acid, Cio Hio O4 ; " 175° 



Difference, 



H, 



2X5 



10 



Not only are the members of the same series subjected to one and the same 
law, but some of the series are connected with each other. The importance of 
this foct is very great, since it enables a systematic grouping of chemical com 
pounds. From the character of well-studied bodies, and from the analogies 
alluded to, we are able to pronoinice a judgment upon the chemical constitution, 
nature, and beha""::.:- of new bodies. 

This connexion of the scries is as follows : 

From alcohol C4 Hg O2 we may obtain by the addition of oxygen, and by the 

subtraction of hydrogen, acetic acid, (C4 Ilg O2) -f- O4 = (C4 H4 O4) -f 2 H 0. 

Hence, in general terms, if from the series (Cu H(n-j-2) O2) we subtract H2, and 

add O2 = (Cu Hu O4,) we obtain an acid analogous to acetic acid. Moreover, 

11 s 



1G2 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



by subtnictiiig 2 II O from (C„ H(u+2)02 ) we obtain Cu Hu, or the series of 
hydrocarbons (I.) Ethylene is thus actually obtained from alcohol. 

Again, Irom every acid of the series Cu IIn O4 we may obtain an amide Cn 
H(„ + ,)N02. 

The law of homology conduced strongly to the type theory by contributing 
a better knowledge of the chemical constitution of bodies. I3y its study, radi- 
cals containing oxygen were definitely accepted. Thus, (in series 11,) acetic 
acid (C, II4 04) is not formed from ethylene (C4 II4) by the addition of O4, but 
from alcohol (U4 II,j O2) by the addition of O2, and by the subtraction of H2 in 
such manner that the radical (C4 II3O2) is formed ; which makes acetic acid (C4 
11^ Oj) = (O4 H3 O2) II O2. As a proof of the existence of such a radical in 
acetic acid, we may obtain its compound with chlorine by the action of oxychlo- 
ndi.' of phosphorus upon acetate of soda, and we may restore this chlorine com- 
pound to acetic acid by the action of water upon it.* 

(NO4) is another radical containing oxygen. By acting upon benzoic acid 
so as to substitute (NO4) for hydrogen, we have nitro-benzoic acid — that is, C14 
He O4 becomes Cu H5 {NO4) O4. 

These considerations have been leading us gradually to the ideas of modern 
chemical types. Such a type is a group of atoms of which the individuals bear 
a certain relation to each other, and forms a pattern for imagining all chemical 
compounds, between the atoms of which a similar relation is supposed to exist. 
It may be illustrated by certain blocks glued together, or by a cage of wire with 
compartments, in which the blocks may be placed, thus : 

THE TYPE — WATER. 



/ / 


/ 


/ II / II 


/ 


/ 






/ 


/ 



Examples of the type of water ; 
Sulphuretted Hydrogen. 



Hydrate of Potassa, 





* See examples of reactions by the type metliod toward the close of this article. 



THE MODERN THEORY OP CEEMICAL TYPES. 



163 



The four compounds represented above are supposed to be constituted after 
the pattern of water, which is the type. Thus, if the oxygen atoms of the type 
are rephiced by sulphur atoms, we have sulphuretted hydrogen. 

If, iu the type, we substitute for the hydrogen block, upon the left hand, a 
potassium block, the result is hydrate of potassa. If, on the other hand, we re- 
move a right-hand block of hydrogen, and substitute a block representing the 
radical acetyle, we have acetic acid. And if we replace each hydrogen block 
of the type, one with a potassium block and the other with an acetyle block, 
there results acetate of potassa. 

In the above illustration the compounded blocks are of one size, thus repre- 
senting a volume of four oxygen blocks, and conforming to the law of conden- 
sation of organic compounds to four volumes. We must bear in mind that the 
individual blocks may be larger than an oxygen block when outside of the 
type, though condensed to the size of such block in the compound. For ex- 
ample, 2 volumes of oxygen + 4 volumes of hydrogen = 6 volumes, which are 
condensed, by combination of the gases, to 4 volumes of vapor of water. 

Hydrogen constitutes another type, thus : 



HYDROGEN TYPE. 




Benzole and Acetone examples of this type are represented thus : 
Benzole. Acetone. 



/ ^ 


/ 


/ C12H5 


/ 

/ 


/ 






1G4 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



Ammonia gives another type, thus : 

AMMONIA TYPE. 



/./" 


/ 


/ ^^ / " 


/ 






/ 


/ 



I 



Ethylamine and Aniline are examples of this type, and are thus represented : 

Ethylamine. Aniline. 



/ N /cA\h 


1 

1 


/ 11 / \l 


/ 
1 






\/ 




The sizcn of these hydrogen and ammonia types are equal to that of the 
water type, viz : four volumes. 

With this preliminary illustration the following table (from Graham Otto's 
Lehrbuch) may be quoted : 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 



165 



2-- 




o 
6 



1—1 ^ 







OCti 




S5 OJ 

tO u - 















ooa 



iH^ 

I ^ o 
CPU 



WmP-i 



W 



Q 
« 

O 

o 
o 

O 

O 
Q 



— — <.:3 




ooo 












dl 




_ ^ :3 


T^ 


OK S 


c3 


QO 





O 


M 


K" 


O 




'^^3 


Q 


o 


<1 








M 




o 


a 






ft, 




o o 


> 




^s >> 


H 


^ 


K3^ 


a 


ooo 


3 













ffl § 


HlH 


r^. a 


^^ 


2 oj 




o« 








^ 




^^-'^'"-^^ (D 




^ -T^ 




^. a 




WrtM N 




-<■ S 




Z. D 




o w 




125 




^"^-A^^^*' ^ 




^ T^ 




o •§ 




ffiWWl 




•>• ^ 




o -< 


^ 


6 
?2 


HH W 


S 




"^ 


I 1 


a 




<o 


"^ 


^^^ 


W 


oo g 


< 


WKffiJ 


s 


c» f -r • 


o 


c5d6Q 


s 




s 




^ 


i3 

.9 


a 


a 


>> 


*^ ^ 


^ 


''ir^^J^'2 






a 


W W hM ^Jl^ 








UOOH 


O 




c-i 


.3 


O 


^- 3 


2 


^ _2 






5 


^^■^^>^-> >, 










o 


HI HH u_| O 


o 


o 


OO Q 


<1 





C/3 




Q 


a 


2 


^ 3 


3 


/■^-A^.^^ - 


O 




a, 


«Iww5 


O 


o pq- 


O 






1^ 




^-^ 








O d 




:^ .3 




"•^H-l HH TZ 




w 1 












6 ^ 




^ 




i> 




W .3 




^,WW^ 




o <J 



IGG THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 

The table illustrates the method of writing the formulse of bodies according 
to the types of water, hydrogen, and ammonia, to which they respectively belong. 
Determination.s of the specitic gravities of the vapor of water and of hydrogen 
show that the furmuhc II O and II (0 = S and II = 1) agree to a condensation of 
ttvo volumes. In order, therefore, to make types of these bodies, their formulae 
must be doubled so as to correspond to a condensation of four volumes, which 
is the atomic volume of the greater ^lart of organic compounds. 

The formula for ammonia N II3 already corresponds to four volumes, e. g., 
2 vols. N + 6 vols. 11 = 8 vols, condensed to 4 vols. N H3. 

It will be observed that, in the table, compounds of a basic character are 
placed to the left hand, those of acid nature to the right hand, while salt or 
neutral bodies occupy positions in the middle of the table. 

It will be observed, further, that in the formulae of the bodies according to the 

types TT > O2 and |, > the electro-negative elements are placed in the bracket 

to the left hand, and these are distinguished into a superior atom of hydrogen, 
capable of being replaced by chlorine, &c., or an acid radical, and an inferior 
atom of hydrogen susceptible of being exchanged for a metal or basic radical, 
while the electro-negative elements, oxygen, sulphur, &c., occupy positions to 
the right hand, outside of the bracket. 

The relations existing between anhydrous or hydrated acids or bases ; the 
difference between hydrogen acids and oxygen acids ; the nature of acid, base, or 
salt, are more readily perceived by a close examination of the table than by the 
most extended description. It will be seen by this inspection how the ammonia 

salts are represented. xr TT ^ [ ^2 is the acetate of ammonia. By adding H 

TT 1 
to the type ammonia we have a new type tt }• N, ammonium, which enables 

the formation of salts, according to the ammonium theory, by introducing this new 
type into the type of water. Thus diethyle-methyle-amyle-ammonium would be 

H -) O4H3O2 ^ 

C4 II5 ~) 
N. Its hydrated oxide C4 H5 i -j^ 
C2 II3 I 
CioHji 3 J CioHii 




C4 H5 

XT I 

•N. 



> O2. Its acetate C4 II5 ( at r O2. 



O2 H3 (^'- I 
The homologous series may thus be generalized by this system of nomencla- 



ture — c. g., ordinary alcohol is p tt ? O2 ; p tt > O2 is any alcohol, and 

P TT O i "* n (n+ ; J 

1'^ ^ 1 ^^^ corresponding acid of the same homologous series. 

Another principle, which has been adopted in tbe type method, consists in 
the assumption of radicals capable of replacing Hg or H3 in the types. Such 
radicals are diatomic when they replace H2, and are represented thus, (",) and 
triatomic ( '") when they replace H3 ; and the types of water, hydrogen, and 
ammonia are doubled or trebled to form new types by which bibasic or tribasic 
acids or salts may be represented. Thus : 

niBASIC ACIDS. 

Type. Sulphuric acid. Succinic acid. Tartaric acid. 

TRIBASIC ACIDS. 
Type. Phosphoric. Meconic. Citric 

JMOr ^^'"'\0r CuUO,'")^ C,2H5 0«'")^ 



THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 1G7 

The following are examples of the di;plicatiou and triplication of the hydro- 
gen and ammonium types : 

Tvpe. Cliloro-sulphuric acid. Chloride of succinvle. 

H2 I S2 O4" ( Cs H4 O4" \ 

Hz] CI2 I CI2 f 

Type. Siiccinimide. 

H. ) ■ Cb H4 O4" ) 

H2) H2 ) 

Type. Oxychloride of phosphorus. 

H3 ) P 0,"' I 

H3} C13 J ' 

Type. Citramide. 

H3 ) C12 H5 Og'" ) 

H3 } M H3 > X3. 

H3 ) H3 ) 

These derived types are connected with the primary types by the hypothesis 
that a "polyatomic" radical may replace several atoms of hydrogen in the 
primary type. Thus — 

Anhydrous sulphuric acid. Anhydrous succinic acid. 




S2 04"|02. C8H4 04"j02. 



Sulphurous acid. 
S2 O4" I 
Succinimide. 

The following examples illustrate the use of the type method of expressing 
a chemical reaction — e. g., that of hydrochloric acid with hydrated oxide of 
ammonium. 

By the former method it would be — 

N H4 + H CI = N H4 CI + H O 

By the type method — 



H 
NH 



j0^+*^}=N\}+g|0. 



Again : by the action of oxychloride of phosphorus upon acetate of soda, 
chloride of acetyle is formed together with phosphate of soda, which reaction 
is represented. 

By the former method — 

P O2 CI3 + 3 (N, 0, C4 H3 O3) = 3 N^O, P O5 + 3 (C4 H3 O2) CI. 

By the type method — 

P O2'" ) ^ . /C4 H3 O2 ) ^ \ P O/" ) o + -W ^^ ^^ ^2 
CI3 } + M Na ] ^') - Xa3 r^« + M CI. 



Some regard the type method of imagining a body as essential in the nature 
of matter ; to these the type of the same body is invariable, with which, if 



168 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 

phenomena .agree not, the rcigon is souglit, and the correct type determined by 
experiment. 

But others emph)y this method as a means of comparing chemical reactions, 
and as suggestive of new experiments. Such write f'ormulic sometimes according 
to the ohl nomenchiture, and sometimes t.akc great liberties with the types, 
viewing the same body in different types ; for example, taking aldehyde 

(C4 114 ex.) .iccording to the type „, thus: '•* jj-^ ' > or, according to the 

, 11 ) ,, ,1 C4 H:, I n 
typejr > O2, thus: * ,t' > O2. 

A very serious defect, in my opinion, in the type method is that it pl.aces the 
hydrogen acids and salts in a different type from the oxygen acids and salts ; 
while tlie analogies existing between these acids and salts furnish urgent reason 
why they shouhl have the same constitution, Avhich similarity chemists have 
always labored to discover. It is not fair to constitute a type ammonia founded 
on the chemical analogies of it and the compound ammonias, and at the same 
time place hydro-chloric and nitric acids in different types. And yet, by the 
present method, they cannot come in the same type, because, first, oxygen can- 
not come in the hydrogen type, jy > ; jj ? ; and second, in the Wciter-type 

TT I ^^ ^^'^ oxygen outside of the bracket is differently combined, compared 
with the oxygen of an oxy-radical replacing H. Thus nitrate of potassa must 
be y^ ■" i O2, and not i/- "^ [ j (since O4 and O2 are differently combined,) and 

CI ) 

chloride of potassium can only be jt- > . 

In concluding the subject, it may be observed that by the former method of 
writing formula?, the binary nature of chemical compounds, owing to the polarity 
of their atoms, was kept prominent ; while this is not the case with respect to 
type formula;, although in these the polarity of the atoms is not denied, but 
kept in subordiu.ate view. 

Whatever be the faults or merits of the type method, it has, by placing bodies 
before us in a new relation, suggested experiments (which, perhaps, Avould not 
have been otherwise suggested) which have led to important discoveries. At the 
present time, not to understand this method of writing formulae is to be excluded 
from following the course of modern chemical progress. 



RESEARCHES ON THE PHENOMENA 

WHICH CHARACTERIZE AND ACCOMPANY 

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY 

IN HIGHLY EAKEFIED ELASTIC FLUIDS.* 



BY PROFESSOR A. DB LA RIVE. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Mcmuires de la Societe dc Physique el 
d' Historic Naturdle de Geneve, tome XVII, 1863. 



I was led in 1849, in my first memoir on the aurora borcalis,f to show that 
the electric light which is produced in a vacuum of from four to five millimetres 
is obedient to the action of the magnet. I subsequently found that this experi- 
ment, in which, to produce electricity, I at first used an ordinary electric instru- 
ment, and then the hydro-electric machine of Armstrong, succeeded still better 
with Ruhmkorif's induction apparatus. The employment of this apparatus 
has since supplied the means of studying in a surer and more commodious 
manner the propagation of electricity in rarefied gases, and thus the assurance 
has been obtained that, while an absolute vacuum will by no means transmit 
electricity, the presence in any space of the smallest quantity of ponderable 
matter in the state of an elastic fluid suffices for such propagation. To the con- 
clusive experiments of M. Gassiot we essentially owe the demonstration of this 
important principle. It has been observed that the transmission of electricity 
through elastic fluids is effected with more or less facility, according to the na- 
ture and density of the fluid, and that it is accompanied, when the gas is very 
much rarefied, by an appearance which has been called the stratification of 
electric light, consisting in the phenomenon of a succession of strata alternately 
luminous and obscure, presented by the luminous electric discharge. The 
action of the magnet on this light has likewise been studied. M. Plucker, after 
numerous and important experiments, has ascertained its law in connecting it 
with the formation of magnetic curves. Lastly, different explanations have 
been offered of the stratification of electric light, some based on the peculiar 
mode of the production of electricity by Ruhmkorff's apparatus, others referring 
it, not to the character of the apparatus producing the electricity, but rather to 
that of the medium which propagates it. 

The phenomena just cited had awakened in me a lively interest, and I have 
for some years more particularly studied them. I have encountered great diffi- 
culties in this pursuit, as, on account of the necessity, in operating on highly 
rarefied elastic fluids, of having apparatus which Avill properly maintain a vacuum, 
as well as very delicate instruments to appreciate with minute exactness the 
degree of rai-efacation. The establishment at Greneva, conducted by so skilful 
a machinist as M. Schwerd, has, however, enabled me in a great measure to 

* For a table of French measures, compared with English, see the last page of this Report. 
t Annates dc Cliimie ct dc Physique, tome XXV, p. 31U; and Comptcs Rcndus del Academie 
des Sciences, tome XXIX, p. 412. 



170 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

surmount those difficulties, and to arrive at results which I can with confidence 
present to the society. 

My curlier researches, which had chiefly for their object the study of the 
general phenomena, were directed only to hydrogen and nitrogen, two gases, 
diflfering greatly as regards their physical and chemical properties, and ofiering, 
moreover, the advantage of being at once simple, unalterable, and without action 
on the metals serving as electrodes. Atmospheric air, on Avhich also I have 
often operated, acts very much as nitrogen, whether because the proportion of 
oxygen it contahis is small in comparison Avith that of the nitrogen, or because 
this oxygen, at least in great part, quickly disappears by reason of the trans- 
mitted eleotricity, which, converting it into ozone, facilitates its combination 
with the metal of the electrodes. I have also, in some cases, mixed with the 
gas submitted to experiment a little vapor of water or of alcohol. 

Electricity has, in my experiments, been produced by a Ruhmkorff induction 
apparatus of mean force, set in action by one or two pairs of Grove's cups,* 
and operating by means of the ordinary cut-off. The electricity thus produced 
is transmitted by means of copper Avires covered with gutta-j)ercha through the 
gaseous mediums, more or less rarefied, contained in glass vessels of different 
forms, tubes, jars, spherical or ovoid globes, &c. These vessels are to be carefully 
closed with good taps, and furnished with metallic electrodes of divers forms 
and natures, which serve to introduce the electric currents, t In the circuit 
which these currents are destined to traverse we place distilled water in a small 
glass trough, some twenty centimetres in length by five in width and three in 
depth. Two plates of platina fixed respectively at the extremities of the trough, 
and whose surface is exactly equal to the transverse section of the stratum of 
water, serve to establish this water in the circuit. The purpose of the interpo- 
sition of the water is to determine the intensity of the' electric current by means 
of an expedient which permits, with that view, the employment of a very deli- 
cate galvanometer. Two Avires of platina, each inserted in a glass tube, are 
attached vertically to solid supports, so as to be immersed in distilled water at 
their lower extremities, Avhich extremities project from the glass only a milli- 

* The battery in question is but a particular form which I have given to Grove's apparatus 
to render its management more convenient and prompt. It is constructed as follows : 

A glass jar with a large opening of about ten centimetres, closed with a glass stopper rubbed 
with emery, contains about a litre of nitric acid. When the pair is to be used, Ave remove the 
stopper and replace it by a porous cylinder of such diameter that it can enter freely into the 
jar by the opening. This cylinder, long enough to be plunged nearly to the bottom of the 
jar, has on its upper portion an annular protuberance, by means of which it rests on the edge 
of the opening. It contains sulphuric acid diluted Avith water, and a tube or strip of zinc im- 
mersed in tiio acid solution. It is, besides, sunounded externally with a thin plate of platina, 
to which is soldered with gold a Avire, also of platina, which terminates outside, traversing 
the annular projection of the porous cylinder. The zinc and the platina Avire each carry 
nippers, by which the conductors are readily attached. There may be several similar 
pairs, and nothing is easier than to arrange them in series, so as to obtain a battery more or 
less powerful. But a single pair is suthcient, if well mounted, for nearly all electro-dynamic 
experiments, and particularly lor the demonstration of the laAvs of Ampere, as Avell as for the 
production of the phenomena attending the discharge of the Euhmkortf apparatus in rarefied 
gases. 
^ It is not necessary otten to change the nitric acid, since the jar contains a large quantity. 
The same acid may serve for several days and for many experiments. It is of advantage, 
however, frequently to change the acidulated water which tills the porous tube— a very easy 
and unexpensive operation. Finally, an important precaution to be taken is, that, Avhen we 
cease to use the pair, the porous cylinder should be withdraAvn from the nitric acid, care being 
taken nnmediately to replace it with the stopper rubbed with emery, and the cylinder should 
be immersed ui a bottle tilled with pure water. Thus the emanations of the nitrous vapors, 
and the penetration of the nitric acid through the porous cylinder, are avoided. We should 
guard agamst immersing the amalgamated zincs in the same water in Avhich the porous 
cylmdors have been plunged, for the smallest trace of nitric acid in water suffices to alter the 

ZUU-H. 

t For electrodes I have chiefly used balls of platina, one centimetre in diameter. 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 171 

metre, in accordance with the plan of Dr. Wollaston, while their upper extremi- 
ties communicate respectively with two ends of" the wire of a galvanometer, 
whose coils are well isolated by means of resin. The supports which bear the 
platiua wires are movable along a division in such way that the two extremi- 
ties of the wires immersed in the water may be made to approach one another as 
closely as possible, or be separated very nearly the whole length of the stratum 
of water. By means of a micrometric screw, the relative distance of the two 
points of platina may be so varied as to be appreciable to nearly the tenth of 
a millimetre. These two points draw off an almost insensible proportion of the 
electric current which traverses the trough filled with water — a proportion, how- 
ever, which suffices to act in a distinct manner on the needle of the galvanometer. 
The proportion drawn off depends for a current of constant intensity on the dis- 
tance of the two points, so that, if the intensity be variable, it is the variable 
distance to which it is necessary that the two points shall be brought, in reference 
to one another, in order for the indication of the galvanometer to remain con- 
stant, which measures the proportion drawn off in each case, and thus, by a ratio 
easily determined, the absolute intensity of the current. 

Finally, a good pneumatic pump, to which a second complementary one may 
be joined, enables us to bring the gas to an advanced degree of rarefaction. As 
to the elastic force of the gas, that is measured by a manometer of mercury 
very carefully constructed, with which, by means of a cathetometer, a difference 
of pressure of even the fiftieth of a millimetre may be appreciated. 

$ I.— GENERAL PHENOMENA PRESENTED BY THE TRANSMISSION OF 
ELECTRICITY IN RAREFIED GASES. 

The Ruhmkorff apparatus, of which I have availed myself, gives in the in- 
ducted wire two successive and alternately contrary discharges. Hence, if 
these discharges encounter in the circuit which they traverse only good con- 
ductors, such as metallic wires, and even distilled water, no deviation is re- 
marked in the galvanometer, because the discharges being alternately in a 
contrary direction, and in rapid succession, their opposed double acti(m is 
neutralized. But if the circuit comprises an elastic fluid very much rarefied, 
the resistance which it opposes to the passage of the two successive discharges 
causes one of them to predominate, so that the phenomena take place as though 
there were but a series of discharges all in the same direction. The explana- 
tion of this difference is, that the two discharges, or inducted currents, though 
eqxial in quantity, have not the same tension, the direct, which have a less 
duration, having a stronger tension. It thence results that when the circuit is 
interrupted by a body which is a bad conductor, such as an elastic fluid more 
or less rarefied, the direct currents can alone be transmitted, so that the direc- 
tion of the inducted current which traverses the elastic fluid is the same with 
that of the inductive current, and the latter changing, the other changes at the 
same time. 

The pressure at which a discharge of a given intensity begins to pass through 
a gas varies with the nature of that gas, with its degree of rarefaction, and with 
the dimensions and form of the vessel which contains it. Moreover, the dis- 
charge does not pass immediately upon the electrodes being put in communica- 
tion with the poles of the Ruhmkorff apparatus. For that a certain time is 
necessary — a time so much longer in proportion as the resistance is greater, 
whether arising from the nature or density of the elastic fluid, or from the effect 
of the form and dimensions of the vessel. Thus, in a long tube, from 2 to 
5 centimetres in diameter and from 30 to 50 centimetres in length, it requires 
several minutes before the discharge can be transmitted, however rarefied the 
gas. But the first discharge having once passed, the succeeding ones pass 
with facility, and follow one another so rapidly as to produce on the galva- 



172 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

uometcr the effect of u continuous current. The passage of the discharges may 
even be interrupted for many minutes without the loss of the capacity which 
the gas had acquired of immediately transmitting them. To lose it completely 
we must wait a long time, or renew the gas, and consequently again rarefy it. 
An equally important fact to be noticed is, that the discharges once transmitted, 
there may be gradually introduced, while they arc passing, a new quantity of 
the same gas, which amounts to an augmentation of the density, without their 
ceasing to pass; the pressure may thus be carried to almost double what it was 
at the beginning. The direction of the discharges has no influence on this 
train of phenomena; for, the discharge having once effected a passage, its 
direction may be changed at will, without a cessation of immediate transmission. 
This result, which 1 have had occasion to verify in many and very different 
cases, would seem to show that the gaseous matter opposes a certain inertia to 
the establishment of that particular disposition Avhicli the transmission of elec- 
tricity requires, and which determines the tension which precedes that trans- 
mission ; but that this disposition once established, it subsists long after the 
passage of electricity has ceased, provided no disturbance intervene in the state 
of the gas. It had long been supposed, particularly in the theory of Grotthus 
on electrolytic decompositions, that something analogous occurred in the trans- 
mission of voltaic currents through liquids ; it had thence been inferred that 
the tension of the poles of the piles induced in the liquid in which these poles 
were plunged, a polarization, which preceded the passages of the current. Only 
these two effects succeeded one another in a time so short as to be inappre- 
ciable, while with gases they would be found to be separated by an interval 
of more or less duration, but always appreciable. 

I shall restrict myself here to certain numerical results, — results of but little 
importance indeed, since it is impossible to deduce from them a law, in view of 
the numerous causes which occasion them to vary. They serve only to show 
the accuracy of the general principle which I have just indicated. We may 
also infer from them the great superiority of hydrogen over nitrogen and atmo- 
spheric air, as regards its conducting power — a fact already noticed by several 
experimenters. 

In a tube 5 centimetres in diameter and 16 in length, the discharge, when 
the tube was filled with atmospheric air, only began to pass when the pressure 
was reduced to 20 millimetres ; with nitrogen it passed under a pressure of 24 
millimetres, and with hydrogen under that of 36 millimetres. It is true 
that subsequently, under the same conditions of intensity, and still with 
hydrogen, the discharge passed at pressures of 42, and even 48 millimetres ; 
when rendered still stronger, it has been transmitted under a pressure of 
even 72 millimetres. With a tube having a like diameter of 5 centimetres, 
but only one metre in length, the same discharge only began to pass through 
nitrogen under a pressure of from 4 to 5 millimeters ; with hydrogen it passed 
only under a pressure of from 12 to 13'""\ Afterwards, when stronger, and 
again with hydrogen, it passed under a pressure of 18, and even 20°"'". When 
the discharge begins to be transmitted, it exhibits itself in very minute jets 
or streams, more or less intermitted ; afterwards these streams combine to form 
a larger and more continuous one. In a jar iilled with hydrogen the discharge 
passed from an isolated central ball to a ring 12 centimetres in diameter, 
making the distance of the transmission but 6 centimetres in a space of hydro- 
gen wliich might be called unlimited. In this case it was transmitted under a 
pressure of 128""" in the form of streams more or less intermittent and undu- 
lating, darting from the central ball to all points of the ring indifferently. At 
90'""' the discharge gave rise to a continuous stream, susceptible of being in- 
fluenced by magnetism. 

We see, by the instances just cited, that the pressure under which, fijr an)» 
given gas, the discharge can pass varies with so many circumstances, that its 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 17.5 

determination is of little importance. Not so, however, when the discharge is 
once transmitted in regard to the influence which the pressure of the gas it 
traverses exerts on its intensity. The following are two comparative experi- 
ments made with nitrogen and hydrogen. These two gases were successively 
introduced into a tube 5 centimetres in diameter and 50 in length; the dis- 
charge passed between two balls of platina one centimetre in diameter, placed 
respectively near each extremity of the tube, so that the passage across the 
gaseous medium was quite 50 centimetres in extent. 

Nitrogen. — The intensity of the discharge was measured by means of that 
of the derived current received by the two points of platina phniged, at a fixed 
distance of 120°'™, in the distilled water which was placed in the circuit : 

Pressure. Intensity of derived current. 
9™™ Galvanometer almost insensible. 

"jiinm AO 

6"°^ 13° to 16 = 

4mm to 5mm 2G° to 30^ 

3mm to 4mm 350 

3™™ 38= to 40° 

2"™ 42° to 45° 

Hydrogen. — Proceeding at first as in the case of the nitrogen, the two points 
of platina which received the derived current were left at a fixed distance from 
one another : 

Pressure. Intensity of derived curi'ents. 

GO™™ to 30"""^ 1° to 4° 

26™™ 5° 

18™™ 6° 

15™™ 7° 

13™™ 13° 

10™™ 40° 

9™™ 50° 

For pressure of less than 9 millimetres the points of platina were in each 
case brought nearer together, so as to have a constant current. At a distance 
of 55™™, the derived current, which under a pressure of 9™™ had been 50°, Avas 
reduced to 40°. Tbe following series was then obtained; and here, in order 
to restore the derived current to 40°, it was requisite, in proportion as the press- 
ure diminished, to bring the points closer together, so as to render the interval 
of derivation smaller: 

Pressure. Distance of points. 

gmm ^ _ _ 65™™ 

Cmm 4^mm 

•7min 30™™ 

gmm 25™"" 

gmm 9Qmm 

4mm _ ji^mm 

3mm _ J 4mm 

omm 12™™ 

Thus, as for as 2™™ of pressure, the intensity of the derived current, and 
consequently the conductibility of the gas, goes on increasing as well for the 
hydrogen as for the nitrogen ; but we see how much more considerable is the 
conducting power of tlife hydrogen than that of the nitrogen, since, under a 
pressure of 9™™, all othei' circumstances remaining the same, the derived cur- 
rent is, with the nitrogen, scarcely sensible, while it is 50° with tbe hydrogen. 



174 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

In two other comparative expcriiiieuts, the pressure and the distance of the 
electrodes were made to vary alike for the nitrogen and hydrogen. The two 
eases had been successively introduced into the same ovoid globe. The fol- 
lowing table gives the intensity of the derived current for three different dis- 
tances' of the electrodes under diftcrent pressures, when nitrogen is in the ball: 

Pressure. Distance of the electrodes. 

14 cent. 7 cent. 1 cent. 

20""" 10° 23° bb"" 

gm"' 40° 47° bb° 

5mm 50° bb° 57° 

3mm 550 55° 57° 

When ibr nitrogen we substitute hydrogen, the results differ somewhat, 
especially in the lower pressures, and when the electrodes are in close proximity 
with one another, which proceeds probably from the circumstance that the 
gaseous medium, in view of the form of the vessel, may be regarded as having 
an almost indefinite breadth. In a large receiver, in effect, where the current 
passes between a central ball and a concentric ring having a diameter of 12 
centimetres, the intensity of the derived current is very little increased by 
diminishing the pressure beyond 10"''^\ That intensity, measured by the de- 
rived current, amounts, under a pressure of 15""™, to 35° ; under a pressure of 
10™'", it attains 45"; then augments gradually as far as 5"'™, when it reaches 
its maximum of 50°, which it never exceeds, manifesting rather a slight ten- 
dency to become less under 2'"'^. By raising the central ball so as to give to 
the electric sheet a conical instead of circular form, the conductibility is not 
sensibly diminished. Under the same circumstances the atmospheric air does 
not present a resistance much greater than the hydrogen ; thus the intensity 
of the derived current is 35° at 5'"'" instead of 50°, and at 2™™ is 45°. How- 
ever, with the tube of one metre in length, hydrogen must be subjected to a 
much weaker pressure in order to transmit the discharge, but its conductibility 
increases very raj)idly with the diminution of that pressure. Thus, the appa- 
ratus of derivation being placed in the circuit, Ave have : 

Pressure. InteDsity of the derived current. 

5'"'" , 0° 

4mm ]^2° 

3'^™ 22° 

Sni'" 30° 

2mm 52° 

Finally, with the same tube, one metre in length and 5 centimetres in 
diameter, a sensible and regular augmentation in the intensity of the derived 
current has been obtained, for the same pressure and in the two gases alike, by 
a corresponding diminution of distance between the electrodes. The compari- 
son of the numbers indicates, that, when the gas is sufficiently rarefied to be a 
good conductor, that is, to permit the discharge to become, so to say, continu- 
ous, it follows, like liquids and solids, in its conductibility, the law of the inverse 
of the length. It has been already seen that the influence of the section 
and of the volume is very considerable ; but I have not been able to determine 
its law in a j)recise manner. 

Thus far I have considered the |iropagation of electricity in gaseous sub- 
stances only in relation to the resistance they oppose to it — a resistance variable 
with their nature, their density, and their dimensions. I have but glanced 
at this part of my subject, to which I shall return at an early occasion, as I 
propose to extend my researches to a much larger number of gasd^us substau- 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 175 

ces. I pass now to phenomena of quite anotbev order, and which relate to the 
mode itself in Avhich the propagation of electricity is effected in gases — a mode 
which manifests itself under the form of stratification of the electric light. 

^ II.— INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING THE STRATIFICATION OF THE 
ELECTRIC LIGHT. 

It is known that at a certain degree of diminution of the elastic force of 
a gas which transmits the electric current, that current becomes stratified — that 
is to say, is decomposed into strata alternately obscure and luminous. The 
stratification commences hy the appearance of certain slight striae or furrows on 
the side of the positive electrode ; then gradually, as the elastic force dimin- 
ishes, the current, which Avas at first very narrow, dilates, and the strioe grow 
larger. Next appears an obscure space, separating the extremity of the lumi- 
nous column from the negative electrode, which is itself surrounded with a bluish 
atmosphere. This atmosphere continues to dilate, and the obscure space to 
lengthen, in proportion as the rarefaction of the gas increases. 

In order to obtain the stratification of the electric light, it is necessary to di- 
minish the pressure of a gas in proportion as the gas offers more resistance to 
the transmission of electricity. Thus in hydrogen, under a pressure of 18"'™, 
the electric stream, which consists as yet of but a small rose-colored filament 
from three to four millimetres in diameter, is seen to divide into very distinct cir- 
cular sheets, alternately obscure and luminous, the breadth of which is one-fourth 
of a millimetre. These striae, at first more distinctly marked at the positive elec- 
trode, become general throughout the whole electric current, whatever bo its 
length ; and, in proportion as the pressure diminishes, the stream becomes en- 
larged, so as even to occupy the whole interior of a tube five centimetres in di- 
ameter. At the same time the breadth of the alternately obscure and luminous 
divisions so increases that, under a pressure of 2^^, it is about 5™™. These di- 
visions are themselves annular, as I have satisfied myself by closing the tube 
which contains the rarefied gas, at one of its extremities, with a glass disk, 
which permits the whole interior of the tube to be seen in the direction of its 
length. 

When the striae begin to appear, an obscure space, as has been said, is seen 
to form in front of the negative electrode, increasing in proportion as the press- 
ure diminishes, so far as finally to occupy a length of ten centimetres— ^a length 
which is independent of that of the gaseous column. However, by oh^orving 
with attention this obscure space, Ave discover, beyond an interval which is per- 
fectly black, and of a well-defined length of from 2 to 3™™, a palish, rose-colored 
gleam, which is only visible in utter darkness. This gleam, which has the form 
of a cone, whose base is the last section of the luminous column, only appears 
when the pressure has become very slight and quite inferior to that under which 
the obscure space is manifested. It is accompanied by the appearance, in the 
same obscure space, and at unequal intervals, of several still more luminous 
rings, (I have counted as many as four,) which contrast, by their immobility and 
their well-defined outlines, with the agitated striae or divisions of the rest of the 
current. Let us add, that the luminous and stratified part of the current, which 
is much the longest, is so much the more distinctly and sharply separated from 
the obscure or palish part, as the electric discharge is more intense. 

The bluish atmosphere which surrounds the negative electrode is also en- 
larged in proportion as the pressure diminishes, and nearly in the same ratio 
as the striae. At the same time, its brightness becomes less vivid, and its exte- 
rior outline less sharply defined. This bluish atmosphere, which at first 
enveloped only the negative ball, at last, and in proportion as the pressm-e 
diminishes, equally envelops, in all its length, the metallic rod which supports 
the ball ; at least, if this be not covered Avith an isolating coat, Avhich indicates. 



176 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

ou the part of ucj^ative electricity, a great facility in dispersing itself in the 
ambient medium, Avhen once that medium is rarefied. 

The {i^:;itation of the stria? in the luminous part of the current becomes very 
considerable under the i?light pressure of two millimetres. It manifests itself 
at iirst very sensibly in the neij^hborhood of the jiositive electrode, from which 
the luminous stream issues under the form of an outspreading cone, which, in 
proportion as the pressure diminishes, becomes more and more cylindrical, until 
it assumc-s altogether the form of a cylinder of whose circular base the electrode 
is the centre, the agitation of the striae being, at the same time, general through- 
out the whole extent of the current. • 

When the discharge is effected in a cylindrical jar, between a ball serving as 
a negative electrode and a metallic ring of which that ball is the centre, and 
which serves as a positive electrode, the bluish atmosphere which surrounds the 
ball enlarges by several centimetres at a pressure of 2™"\ and its exterior out- 
line is covered with small filaments, presenting a tuftlikc appearance. These 
filaments are probably formed by the series of molecules Avhich transmit the 
discharge. They are much more distinct with hydrogen (a good conductor) 
than with other gases. If the ball serves as a positive electrode, it is surrounded 
with a lively rose-colored halo of about a centimetre in diameter, presenting 
well-marked stratifications ; then comes a dark annular space, which terminates 
at the ring, which is itself completely invested with an envelope or sheath of 
clear violet, with opaline tints. 

Nitrogen presents the same phenomena as hydrogen, though the stratification 
of the electric light does not begin, except under a much feebler pressm-e. In 
the long tube (one metre in length) the agitation of the striae, unclera pressure 
of 2™™, is even more considerable than with hydrogen. These striae seem to 
form an animated helix, with a movement of rotation around its axis. The 
light is also more vivid, the tint being of a peach-blossom rather than pale rose, 
color. The phenomenon is of a most brilliant description. Further, there is 
the same obscure space in the vicinity of the negative electrode, the same ■ 
glimmer of palish rose color at a weak pressure of from 1 to 2™™ in this obscure 
space, the same appearance in this glimmering mist of well-defined and motion- 
less rings more luminous than the space which surrounds them. 

Atmospheric air corresponds in its phenomena with nitrogen. I have ob- 
served only that here the agitation of the stria? is less striking, and the light of 
a rose color less deep than in nitrogen. 

Thf appearances which I have just described are, therefore, within some 
mere shadings, precisely the same in hydrogen, nitrogen, and atmospheric air ; 
they are equally the same, whether these gases are dry, or contain the vapor 
of water or of alcohol in more or less quantity ; there are no difiereuces, except 
that the pressures at which the various phenomena, and the tints of light which 
accompany them, are observed, vary with the nature of the rarefied elastic fluid. 
We cannot, then, attribute the effects just considered to an electro-chemical 
decompo.^ition which cannot take place in a simple and w^ell-desiccatcd gas, nor 
to any action appertaining to the chemical nature of the elastic fluid. They 
are evidently the result of a mechanical action which accompanies the trans- 
mission of electricity — an idea first advanced by M. Riess, who showed that an 
analogous phenomenon presents itself, under a little difi'erent form, it is true, in 
liquids and in solids. 

The phenomenon in rarefied elastic fluids Avould consist in the alternate con- 
tractions and dilatations of the gaseous medium produced by the series of dis- 
charges, always more or less intermittent, of which the electric stream is formed. 
In fact, whether it be by llulunkorffs apparatus, or an ordinary electric machine, 
or by a hydro-electric machine of Armstrong, that the stratifications are pro- 
duced, there is never a continuous discharge, but, in reality, a series of dis- 
charges which may succeed one another so rapidly that the intermission shall 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY- 177 

not be betrayed, even by a galvanometer. But it does not the less exist, as M. 
Gassiot has shown in operating with a pile of Grove at high tension, which, 
with the same electrodes, and in the same medium, will give rise, first to strati- 
fications, and afterwards, when the current has become continuous, to a voltaic 
arch. 

The mechanical action of the series of discharges on the rarefied elastic fluid 
may, indeed, be directly verified by the very marked oscillations of the column 
of mercury of the manometer placed in communication with the clastic fluid, 
which accompany the propagation of electricity iu that fluid. These oscilla- 
tions rise to two or three tenths of a millimetre in hydrogen, under a pressure 
of 16"^™. They begin to be sensible when once the stream passes, that is to 
say, at 36°^™ of pressure ; attain their maximum of three-tenths of a millimetre 
between 20 and 12™™ of pressure ; and diminish rapidly in descending from 12 
to 5™™, at which last pressure they no longer take place. With nitrogen and at- 
mospheric air, and employing the same tube 16 centimetres in length and 5 in 
diameter, the oscillations begin, at the moment when the stream passes, under 
the pressure of about 20™™; attain their maximum of from four to five tenths of 
a millimetre between 12 and 8™™ of pressure ; and then continue to diminish 
until 2 or 5™™, at which pressure they cease to be sensible. 

With the tube one metre in length, and even with that of 50 centimetres, I 
have not succeeded in observing any appearance of oscillation accompanying 
the transmission of the electric current, whatever might be the gas enclosed iu 
these tubes, and whatever the pressure to which it was subjected. On the other 
hand, 1 have obtained very distinct ones, of one and two tenths of a millimetre, 
under pressures varying from 30 to 15™™, in a jar 20 centimetres in height by 
16 in diameter, filled with rarefied hydrogen, and in which the electric stream 
passed from a central ball to a ring 12 centimetres in diameter concentric to 
that ball. This last result shows that the absence of oscillations in the long 
lubes has less connexion with the volume of the gaseous medium, which is less 
than in the vessel of the last experiment than with the influence of the sides 
of the tubes which embarrass the movement of the gas. It is also a proof that 
the oscillations proceed from a mechanical action, and not from an elevation of 
temperature. As regards their intensity, the oscillations evidently depend on 
the greater or less resistance which the gaseous medium opposes to the trans- 
mission of the electric current, since the oscillations are more considerable with 
nitrogen than with hydrogen, and diminish as the pressure does, reckoning from 
a certain point of the pressure, which is that at which the discharge can take 
place in a complete manner, and at which the intensity of the oscillations attains 
its maximum. 

The stratification of electric light would appear then to be a phenomenon 
analogous to the production of undulations of sound, that is to say, a mechanical 
phenomenon proceeding from a succession of isochronous impulses communi- 
cated to the rarefied gaseous column by the series of electric discharges rapidly 
succeeding each other. We find a new proof favorable to this view of the phe- 
nomenon in the perturbation which a displacement of the gaseous matter occa- 
sions in the stratifications, and, consequently, in the disposition of the elastic 
fluid Avhich permits those stratifications to appear. To produce this perturba- 
tion, it suffices to introduce into the tube in which there is a rarefied elastic 
fluid, fuul while the electricity is in process of propagation, an additional 
quantity of the same gas already enclosed therein, so as to increase the pressure 
by one-fourth or one-half of a millimetre at most. Let us see what then occurs 
with hydrogen, remarking that the effects are the same with the three tubes, 
respectively, 15, 50, and 100 centimetres in length. 

We begin by rarefying the gas to the extent of 2™™, so as to have the phe- 
nomenon of the stratifications as distinct as possible. We then introduce a 
small quantity of hydrogen ; if the introduction takes place on the side of the 
12 S 



178 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

ncativc electrode, strice of a fine rose color arc immediately seen to form in the 
obscure space, their diameter being that of the stratitied column— that is, of 
the tube, while they are at the same time very narrow and well defined. They 
are gradually proijagated in the tube, confounding themselves with the original 
stria?, which arc much larger and less distinctly limited; then, as soon as the 
entrance of the gas is arrested, the luminous column is seen to recede slowly 
from the negative electrode, and resume gradually its primitive appearance. 
"When the introduction of the gas takes place on the side of the positive elec- 
trode, in place of the stria) occupying the whole cavity of the tube, we see a 
brilliant stream of very small diameter {2 to 3""") distinctly striated, and quite 
similar to u minute spiral spring (rcssort a hovdin,) advance along the axis of 
the tube in the relatively obscure interior of the luminous column, which itself, 
as soon as the gas begins to enter by the positive as well as by the negative 
electrode, immediately advances so as to occupy almost entirely the obscure 
space up to the negative electrode, from which it is only separated by the in- 
terposed stratum, 2'""' in thickness, which it cannot surmount. Then, the intro- 
duction of the gas once stopped, everything returns quickly to the normal state. 
By whichever of the two extremities of the tube the gas is made to penetrate, 
we see, on the entrance of the gas, a very subtle mist of a roseate white color 
make its appearance, and diffuse itself in the tube ; but this, as soon as the in- 
troduction of the additional quantity of gas has ceased, passes over from the 
negative to the positive electrode, leaving the obscure space to form itself anew, 
and momentarily hiding in its passage, by enveloping them as it were with a 
light cloud, the successive stratifications of different parts of the column ; then 
this mist disappears, and the luminous column resumes its primitive appearance, 
which it maintains so long as nothing is changed either in the electric current 
or the state of tin? gas traversed by it. The appearance of this mist, which per- 
fectly resembles that I have mentioned as existing in the dark space of the 
column in a state of repose, well denotes the agitation into which the introduc- 
tion of a small additional quantity of gas throws the whole column — an agitation 
so conspicuously manifested by the progression of the striaj and their encroach- 
ment on one another. The phenomenon presents this further feature : that the 
definitencss and brightness of the stria; in the gaseous portion introduced, which 
make them so plainly distinguishable from the gas which was already in the 
rtube, enable us to follow the progressive movement of that portion from one end 
■of tlie tube to the other. The experiment may be repeated several times in 
succession by successive introductions of additional quantities of gas, provided 
that each time the pressure be not increased more than ^ of a millimetre, and 
that the total ])ressure do not in all exceed 5 or C""". 

With nitrogen and atmospheric air the incidents arc the same, only avc can- 
not push the experiment so far, the pressure, at which the phenomenon ceases 
to take place with these gases being much less than it is with hydrogen. The 
narrow strife Avhich display themselves at the moment of the entrance of the gas 
on that side where the entrance takes place are also less distinct and less bril- 
liant, but there is equally a momentary disappearance of the obscure space, the 
production of a roseate mist, and progression of this mist, on the cessation of 
the introduction of gas, from the negative electrode to the positive. With the 
three gases alike, we see, when the introduction is effected on the side of the 
negative electrode, the mist advance at first like the slender striated thread 
which follows the axis of the tube from the positive electrode to the negative ; 
then, having arrived at this extremity of the tube, it turns back, passing over, 
as has been said, from thp negative to the positive electrode. 

This mist evidently proceeds from a portion of the gas which, in entering the 
tube, is excessively dilated, and becomes visible by the electricity which trav- 
erses it. From the slowness Avith which the mist is propagated we may judge 
of the feeble degree of elastic force in the gas. It is to the same cause probably 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 179 

that we sboixld ascribe the slowness with which the mixture of the gas which 
is entering the tube with that ah-eady present is effected — a slowness which is 
manifested by the circumstance of the definite and narrow strice appearing in 
the new portion of gas, while in the old the striae are much larger, and by no 
means so distinctly defined — a phenomenon which can only proceed from the 
former not being, at the moment when it enters the tube, so much dilated as the 
gas which was already there. In fine, the fact that the gaseous column with 
narrow striai is much larger when the gas which produces it enters on the side 
of the negative electrode than when it enters on that of the positive, is a proof 
that, before the new introduction of gas, the gaseous column already in the tube 
was much more dilated in the neighborhood of the negative electrode than on 
the side of the positive. So, then, the passage of the electric discharges very 
rapidly succeeding one another across a rarefied gaseoi;s column would pro- 
duce therein, when the rarefaction had reached a certain degree variable with 
the nature, and consequently with the conductibility of the gas, first, a consid- 
erable dilatation of the gaseous matter around the negative electrode, and next, 
beginning in this dilated portion of the column, a succession of alternate con- 
tractions and dilatations as far as the positive electrode. It is highly probable 
that the same effect takes place when the gas is not sufficiently rarefied for 
producing stratification of the electric light. But in that case, the greater 
elastic- force of the gas, joined with the necessarily less rapid succession of the 
discharges, allows the immediate return of the contracted and dilated strata to 
their state of normal density, and thus prevents that double state from mani- 
festing itself; while Avh en the gas is less elastic, and the discharges succeed one 
another more rapidly, the state of dilatation and contraction of successive strata 
produced by a first discharge still subsists when a second arrives, the result 
being that it becomes sensible. 

The transmission of electricity, then, through a gaseous column occasions a 
movement in the particles of gas, and that movement seems to be an impulse 
emanating from the negative electrode. Might not this effect be attributed to 
the static electricity with Avhich the molecules are charged, and which would 
augment their constitutive repulsion 1 We know, and it is seen by the lumi- 
nous aureoles which surround the negative ball and rod, that, at an equal tension, 
the negative electricity issues more readily than the positive from its metallic 
electrodes in order to penetrate into the rarefied ambient medium. Hence, the 
portion of that medium nearest to the negative electrode must be more charged 
with static (negative) electricity than is (with positive) the portion of the rare- 
fied gas near the positive electrode ; it is not, then, surprising that the repulsion 
of the gaseous molecules, and consequently the rarefaction of the gas, should be 
greater in the first of these two portions than in the second.* Now, why does 
negative electricity diffuse itself more easily than jiositive under the same con- 
ditions of intensity, magnitude, and position of electrodes, nature and rarefac- 
tion of the ambient medium 1 Here is the mystery, or at least a point of most 
interesting consideration as regards the theory of electricity. 

^ III.— PARTICULAR PHENOMENA PRESENTED BY DIFFERENT PARTS OF 
THE STRATIFIED ELECTRIC CURRENT. 

The gaseous column traversed by the electric current is composed, as we 
have said, when it has been brought to a certain degree of rarefaction, of strata 
alternately dilated and contracted, with an obscure space greatly dilated in the 
neighborhood of the negative electrode. The more dilated parts of the column 
offering less resistance to the transmission of electricity must remain obscure. 

* Tbe fact that the electricity of tension is more easily propagated around the negative than 
around the positive electrode may be readily verified by experiment, as well as the permanent 
state of electric tension of the gaseous column during the passage of the electric current, what- 
ever may be the rarefaction of the gas. 



\^Q PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

while the raoro contracted, with less capacity of conduction, grow warm, and 
become luminoud, even when it is the same discharge which traverses them. 
We shuiild here expect a phenomenon exactly analogous to that which is pro- 
duced when we place in the circuit of a voltaic jiilc a chain formed of alternate 
wiresofplatina and silver, having the same length and diameter; although they 
both tran.<mit the same current, the wires of platina, offering most resistance, 
grow hot, and become even incandescent, while those of silver, being better 
conductors, remain cold and opaque. 

To demonstrate that in fact the space remaining opaque offers less resistance 
to the transmission of electricity in the stratified column than the luminous part 
of that column, I have arranged two small disks of })latina, 7™™ in diameter, 
each attached by a point in its circumference to the cud of a wire of platina, 
enclosed in a tube of glass, in such a way as to be kept parallel to one another 
at a distance of three centimetres. The two disks are connected in a solid 
manner, though very carefully isolated, and without any possible electric com- 
munication except by means of the wires of platina soldered to their circumfer- 
ence, and enclosed in a tube of glass. The free extremities of the two wires of 
platina can be respectively placed in communication Avith those of the wire of a 
galvanometer. The apparatus is arranged in such manner that the two disks 
of platina may be introduced into the stratified electric stream so as to cut it 
transversely, and to have their centres situated in the very axis of the stream. 
They thus serve as sounds destined for the derivation of a part of the current, 
and the intensity of that derived portion, which is so much less as the conduc- 
tibility of the interval of derivation is greater, is measured by the deviation of 
»he needle of the galvanometer put in communication with the free extremities 
of the platina wires which support the disks ; these wires, as has been said, are 
themselves enclosed in tubes of glass where they traverse the recipient which 
contains the rarefied gas, with a view to their remaining well isolated, and that 
the disks alone may be in contact with the gaseous substance which transmits 
the discharges. Now, it suffices to change the direction of these discharges in 
order that the sounds, without being displaced, shall be immersed either in the 
obscure space near the negative electrode, or in the luminous space Rear the 
positive one. The apparatus is, moreover, so contrived that the sounds may be 
placed in other portions of the current. It is proper to add, that the electrodes 
between which the electric stream passes are two disks of platina, each five cen- 
timetres in diameter, placed parallel to one another at a distance which may 
vary from forty to thirty centimetres, and consequently, like the little disks 
serving as sounds, perpendicular to the axis of the stream. 

Tlu; following are some experiments made successively with nitrogen and 
hydrogen : 

NITROGEN, OR ATMOSPHKRIC AIR. 
Pressure of the gas. Intensity of the derived current. 

Sounds near thepositive electrode. Sounds near the negative electrode. 

6""" 70° 18° 

4™"^ 40° 8° 

2™"^ , 18° 3° 

HYDROGEN. 

IS'"'^ 90° 90° 

e""'^ 82° 65° 

4'"'" 52° ... 2° 

^"" \\ 35°[[[[[[[]]" ..].][['.]'.[ 0° 

We see from these tables that the intensity of the derived current diminishes 
with the pressure, although the transmitted current be much stronger, which 
Bhows with what rapidity the resistance of the gas diminishes in proportion as 
ito rarefaction increases. But at the same time the diminution of the derived 



THE PROPAGATIOX OF ELECTRICITY. 181 

current, and consequently that of the resistance, is much greater when the 
sounds are immersed in the obscure space near the negative electrode than in 
the himinous part of the stream near the positive one. Thus, under the pi'css- 
ure of 2'^°\ it is impossible in hydrogen to perceive the least derived current 
in the black space, while this derived current is at the same time 35° in the 
luminous space ; at a pressure of 15"*™ it was 90° in the nei^-hborhood of the 
two electrodes alike, but there Avas as yet no formation of the obscure space, 
and consequently the state of density of the gas was the same at the two ex- 
tremities of the tube. Tlie resistance of the obscure space is also very feeble 
in nitrogen under a pressure of 2™"', since the derived current is only 3°, while 
it is 18° in the luminous space ; but the difference between the two derived 
currents is less than in hydrogen. This difference results from the fact that 
hydrogen, having a conductibiliry much superior to that of nitrogen on the one 
hand, the absolute intensity of the current is gi-eater, which explains why we 
have 35° instead of 18° in the luminous space ; on the other hand, the derived 
portion must then be less where rarefaction still more augments the conducti- 
bility of the gas, which accounts for our having 0° in place of 3° in the obscure 
space. 

Let us here remark, that all the results which show the unequal resistance 
presented by differeiit parts of the same gaseous column to the propagation 
of electricity are readily comparable with one another, since it is the same elec- 
tric stream which successively traverses these different and unequally conducting 
parts. 

If we place the sounds in a portion of the stream which is ^ of the distance 
from one of the electrodes, and consequently § from the other, we have for 
the intensity of the derived current, under a pressure of 2™™ in air or nitrogen, 
8"^ when the negative electrode, 12° when the positive, is nearest to the sounds. 
In hydrogen we have 20° and 36°. Thus, the couductibility of the gaseous 
column goes on diminishing gradually from the obscure space, where it is at its 
maximum, to the space near the positiA'c electrode, where it is at its minimum. 

By placing the sounds always in the same portion of the stream, we can 
find in the intensity of the derived current a sufficiently exact expression of the 
degree of resistance of different gases at different degrees of pressure, provided 
we take care, by means of a rheostat, to give to the principal current in each 
case the same degree of absolute force. This is an investigation Avith v,'hich I 
am at present occupied, and which is not yet finished. • 

We see, then, that the obscure space near the negative electrode offers much 
less resistance to the passage of the current than does the luminous part near 
the positive electrode. It thence results that, for the same reason that the less 
conductive portion of the gaseous column is more luminous than that Avith 
greater conducting capacity, Avhich remains nearly dark, the temperature of the 
first should be higher than that of the second — an inference Avhich experiment 
has fully confirmed. 

Two thermometers of mercury, Avith cylindrical reserA'oirs, were placed in the 
interior of the tube, which is 16 centimetres in length and 4 in diameter, at the 
respective distance of one centimetre from each of the electrodes — a distance 
sufficient, as Avas ascertained, to annul the cooling or heating influence of those 
electrodes. That the influence would rather liaA'e been refrigerant, Avas found 
susceptible of A^erification by bringing them nearer the reservoir of the ther- 
mometers, which is not surprising, in view of their dimensions, (full metallic 
balls one centimetre in diameter.) 

By causing the electric stream to traverse the rarefied nitrogen or hydrogen, 
a great difference Avas at once perceptible between the temperature acquired by 
the thermometer placed in the dark space near the negatiA-e electrode and that 
acquired by the thermometer placed in the luminous space near the positive 
electrode. These differences observe nearly the same ratio between the press- 



I<5i2 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

ures of 1 to 10"»"», even whcu the absolute temperatures, witli which they must 
uot be coufbunJed, vary with the pressure aud with the nature of tlie gases. 
Thus, even when there is uo longer any sensible obscure space at the negative 
electrode, the thermometer is less elevated there than in the neighborhood of 
the positive, which })roves that the gas is there more dilated and of more con- 
ducting capacity** The difference of temperature, then, should be a still more 
sensible criterion than the difference of brightness, of the greater or less electric 
resistance of different parts of the gaseous column. The absolute temperature 
is iu general less in hydrogen at all degrees of rarefaction than in nitrogen and 
atmospheric air, which offer more resistance to the passage of electricity. The 
difference between the two thermometers was, moreover, never so great in hydro- 
gen as in nitrogen, or atmospheric air. Thus it was at the maximum of 4^°* 
in hijdrogcn, under the pressure of 9 to 12™™, the thermometer having risen, 
in two minutes, from 21"^ to 2G^" at the negative electrode, and 21° to 31° at 
the positive, in nitrogen the maximum difference was 5° under the pressure 
of 5™™, (20° to 24° at the negative thermometer, 20° to 29° at the positive.) 
In atmospheric air the maximum difference was, at a pressure of 6™™, 6°, (from 
18° to 2G° at the negative thermometer, and from 18° to 32° at tlie positive.) 
At a pressure of 20™™ the difference was not more in hydrogen than 2.}°, (from 
21° to 28^°, and from 21° to 26°;) in nitrogen but a half degree, (from 20° to 
to 25°, and from 25° to 25^°;) and in atmospheric air it was null, (from 19° to 
28° at the two thermometers alike.) When there is no longer a difference be- 
tween the indications of the two thermometers, or that difference is very slight, 
it will be observed that the appearance of the luminous stream is perfectly 
uniform through its whole extent. 

llere we give a table of some experiments : 

ATMOSPHKKic AIR, (duration of the experiment, two ininutes.) 
Pressure. Positive tliermometer. Negative thermometer. Difference. 

2™™ 16° to 25° 16° to 21° 4° 

4™™ 18° to 31° 18° to 25^° 5.^° 

6™™ 18° to 32° 18° to 26° 6° 

8™™... 18° to 31° 18° to 27i° 3|° 

10™™ 18° to 31° 18° to 28° 3° 

15™™.^ 18J° to 31° 18^° to 29° 2° 

20™™ 19° to 28" 19° to 28° 0° 

NITROGEN, {duration of the experiment, tioo minutes.) 

2™™ 19° to 24° 19° to 22° 2° 

4™™ 20J° to 28° 20J° to 25° 3° 

5™™ 20° to 29° 20° to 24° 5° 

6™™ 20° to 31^° 20° to 27° 4.^° ■ 

9™™ 20° to 31° 20° to 27° 4° 

15™™ 21° to 30° 21° to 27° 3° 

20™™ 20° to 25i° 20° to 25° ^° 

IIYUROGEN, {duration of the cxpcrivient, two minutes.) 

2«»» 21° to 27" 21° to 25° 2° 

5™™ 20° to 28^° 20° to 25i° 3° 

G™™ 21° to 29° 20° to 25i° 3^° 

9™™ 21° to 31° 20° to 26|° 4|° 

15™™ 21° to 30° 21° to 26° 4° 

2p™™ 21° to 28^° 21° to 26° 2^° 

30™™ 21° to 25° 21° to 23 J° l|° 

* The thermometric indications are in degrees of Keaumiur. 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTKICITY. 183 

The following is the result of an experiment in which the duration of the 
passage of the current was prolonged beyond 2 minutes, through atmospheric 
ail' at a pressure of 5°^'^^ : 

Duration of passage. Positive thermometer. Negative tlaermomcter. Difference. 

2' 18° to 31° 18° to 26° 5° 

4' — to 37° — to30i°... 6i° 

6' — to 40° — to 32° 8° 

8' — to 42° — to 33° 9° 

10' — to 43° — to 34° 9° 

In proportion as the diiratiou of the experiment increases and the absolute 
temperature rises, the diiferences between the temperatures indicated by each 
of the two thermometers become proportionally less ; the indications of the two 
thermometers end by approximating, and even becoming the same after the 
lapse of a certain time. Hydrogen and niti'ogcu give the same results. 

The numbers which express the temperatures in the preceding tables cannot 
be gi^en as being of perfect exactness ; they vary, in effect, in their absolute 
values with the intensity of the electric stream ; but they are sufficiently con- 
stant and exact to demonstrate : 1st, that there is a sensible elevation of tem- 
perature, which accompanies the propagation of the electric current in rareiied 
gases ; 2d, that this elevation is sensibly less in the neighborhood of the 
negative electrode than near the positive, when once the gases are sufficiiently 
rarefied for the discharge to pass easily and the electric light to be stratified ; 
3d, that the absolute elevations of temperature at the two electrodes, and their 
differences, vary with the density and the nature of the gas. 

A fact which shows well all the calorific and luminous power off electricity, 
is, that hydrogen reduced to li™'-^ of pressure can become luminous and be 
heated in a very sensible degree* by the passage of electricity, although at that 
pressure it has a density so inconsiderable that a cubic centimetre of the gas 
does not weigh more than barely 5 y'jpjj of a milligramme. 

When we see matter so subtle as hydrogen reduced to one or two millimetres 
of pressure, becoming luminous under the influence of electricity, the temptation 
can hardly be resisted of surmising an analogy with the matter at once so subtle 
and so luminous which constitutes the comctary bodies. This analogy becomes 
still more striking when we examine closely the appearance presented, in the 
tube which contains the rarefied hydrogen traversed by the electric current, by 
those species of luminous mists which manifest themselves at the moment when 
we introduce a little gas into the tube, and which we also see in the obscure 
space when a certain degree of rarefaction has been attained. Undoubtedly the 
gaseous matter is there still more rarefied than it is in the rest of the mass where 
it is already extremely so, and it offers at the same time a remarkable resem- 
blance with the luminous matter Avhich constitutes the comets. 

^ IV.— INFLUENCE OF MAGNETISM ON ELECTRIC CURRENTS PROPAGATED 
IN HIGHLY Ri\JREFIED GASEOUS MEDIUMS. 

This influence, whose existence I have shown under the form of a rotation 
communicated by the pole of a magnet to the electric currents which radiate 
from it, is, as might be expected, and, as M. Plucker has evinced by several re- 
markable experiments, general. The luminous filaments which display them- 
selves in rarefied gases, traversed by the discharges of the E-uhmkorft' apparatus, 

* The heating of the gas must in fact be very considerable to be capable, in two minutes, of 
raising by nearly 3° the temperature of a thermometer whose reservoir is a cylinder of mer- 
cury )ii millimetres in diameter by 3 centimetres in length. Besides, the single fact that the 
gas is luminous well evinces its high temperature ; for the light is evidently but the effect of its 
incandescence. 



184 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

are attracted or repelled by magnets as electric currents circulating in metallic 
wires would be. In a word, tins action is subject to all the laws of electro- 
dynamics, Avitli this difference, that all the parts of the mobile conductor being 
independent of one another, instead of being united with one another, as they 
arc in a rigid wire, they completely obey the forces which act upon them, and 
take the positions of equilibrium which result therefrom. Hence it is that the 
luminous iilament takes the form of a magnetic curvcj a necessary condition, in 
order that the equilibrium should take place, since the action of the magnet on 
the element of the current is then nothing, the direction of the action being per- 
pendicular to that element when it is a tangent to the magnetic curve. 

I have verified in sundry cases the hnv just recited, and have even succeeded 
in showing that, conformably to the law of Ampere, tAvo electric streams having 
the s.ame direction in a rarefied gas attract each other as two voltaic currents 
transmitted across movable metallic Avires would do. I have not realized the 
repulsion of two electric streams passing in contrary directions, by reason of the 
practical difllculty Avhich I have hitherto encountered in constructing an appa- 
ratus for the purpose. 1 do not, however, renounce the hope of being able to 
do so. I shall return to this subject in an article in which I propose to consider 
the mutiial action of electric currents on one another. I restrict myself, for the 
present, to an investigation of the effects of magnetic action on those currents. 

My researches on this subject comprise two series of experiments : first, those 
in whifli the electro-magnet from which the electric action emanates is placed 
externally to the rarefied gas through which the electric stream is propagated; 
secondly, those in which the magnetized iron is situated in the gas itself. 

One of the most simple cases is that in which one of the tubes of which I 
have spoken in preceding experiments is placed either axially or equatorially in 
relation to the poles of a strong electro-magnet. The following is what is ob- 
served when care has been taken to rarefy well the gas which transmits the 
electric current. The portion of this current submitted to magnetic action is 
condensed towards the walls of the tube in the part nearest, or that most remote 
from, the magnetic poles, according to the direction of the current and that of 
the magnetization; the striai become much more compressed and more brilliant. 
If the portion of the tube placed in the neighborhood of the electro-magnet is 
that Avherc the negati\'e electrode happens to be, the obscure space is immedi- 
ately seen to become luminous, and to present close and brilliant stria; as would 
be the case with the constantly luminous portion of the current which seems to 
advance. At the same; time, the bluish photosphere which surrounds the neg- 
ative ball contracts to at least half its size, becoming more brilliant, and the sort 
of bluish sheath which surrounded the metallic rod, at the extremity of which 
is the negative electrode, com])letely disappears. All that bluish atmosphere is 
concentrated on the ball. It seems that all the gaseous filaments, which may 
Ix; considered as so many conductors of the discharge, instead of radiating from 
i'll points of the negative ball and rod, and being disseminated through the 
(entire gaseous mass as far as the positive electrode, radiate only, when tin; 
magnetic action is exerted on them, from the negative ball, becoming condensed 
towards the Avails of the tube, on one side or the other, as far as that portion of 
their course at which, the action being no longer sensible, they resume their 
normal position, 'i'his condensation explains why the part of the current which 
was obscure because the gas was there too much dilated, becomes luminous, and 
why thfit part Avhich Avas already luminous becomes more slender and brilliant, 
with stratifications more closely compressed. The action of the magnet pro- 
duces the same effect Avhich Avould be produced by a local augmentation of 
density in the rarefied gaseous matter. Further, it is not necessary that the 
action of the magnet should take place exactly on the obscure part in order to 
its becoming luminous ; it equally becomes so, even Avhcn the magnetism acts 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 1^5 

on auotlicr portion of the current, provided it be not too remote from the neg- 
ative electrode. 

The consequence of the explar.atiou just given, and which it is easy to verify 
by experiment, is, that the portion of the gas which transmits the discharge 
must, when it is subjected to the action of the magnet, become a more imperfect 
conductor, and that consequently the electric current must, on the whole, en- 
counter a greater resistance in its passage along the interior of the tube when 
one part of the tube is approached by the electro-magnet than it encountered 
previously. 

Thus the tube of one metre being filled with rarefied hydrogen, and the ap- 
paratus of derivation placed in the circuit,* we obtain the following results : 

Pressure. Intensity of the derived current. 

Without magnetization. Magnetization at the Magnetization at the 

positive electrode. negative electrode. 

4™™ 33° 30° 20° 

8°^ni 30° 30° 10° 

With the tube 50 centimetres in length, filled with nitrogen, we have : 

Pressure. Intensity of the derived current. 

Without magnetization. Magnetization at the Magnetization at tfie 

positive electrode. negative electrode. 

21"" 57° 52° 42° 

4"'" 37° 27° 17° 

6"^™ 25° 20° 12° 

The effects are more marked when the tubes are placed equatorially between 
two soft-iron armatures of the electro-magnet, Avhich are immediately in contact 
with tlie walls of the tube, than when they are placed axially on the poles 
themselves. We see that there is a much greater increase of resistance when the 
magnetism acts on the portion of the current near the negative electrode than 
when it acts on the portion near the positive electrode. The reason of this 
difference is, that the first portion which, as we have seen in the preceding 
paragraph, is endued with a much greater share of conductibility, must natu- 
rally experience a more considerable diminution of that property by the con- 
densation of the gaseous matter produced by the action of the magnet, than is 
experienced by the second portion, where the gas is less rarefied. The direction 
of the magnetization has no influence on the results : it has no other effect than 
to elevate or depress the current, which, when the magnet does not act, is simply 
horizontal. 

Among the experiments which I have made regarding the influence exerted 
by the exterior action of magnetism on rarefied gases enclosed in tubes, I will 
further cite those in which the tube is convoluted into a flat spiral terminated 
by two prolongations perpendicular to the plane of the spiral which serve to in- 
troduce and rarefy the gas, as well as to give a passage to the discharges ; the 
tube of the spiral and its prolongations is a little less than one centimetre in 
diameter, and its total development nearly eighty centimetres. It is necessary 
that the gas should be rarefied at least as much as 2™™ for the discharges to 
pass when nitrogen or atmospheric air is employed. With hydrogen, a press- 
ure of 5 or 6™™ suffices for their transmission. But whatever the gas or its 
degree of rarefaction, it is only after the lapse of some minutes from its being 
placed in the circuit that the discharge begins to pass. It is evidently neces- 
sary that it should be sometimes charged with static electricity for the resist- 
ance to the establishment of the continuous stream to be surmounted. But that 

* It should not be forgotten that here the derived cuiTent is proportional to the principal 
current, so that its intensity may be regarded as being quite approximately the measure of 
that of the discharge which traverses the tube. 



Igg PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

rci-istancc once surmountod, we may interrupt the passage of the discharge with- 
out iucurring the necessity of waiting more than an instant for the transmission 
to recommence, when we close the circuit anew, provided the interruption does 
not exceed an hour or two. The luminous current presents, with liydrogen 
under a pressure of 5 or C""^, very neat and distinct striai of a rose color; at a 
pressure of 2"^', they become much larger and less distinct ; the color is also 
paler. The same occurs Avith air and with nitrogen, but the effects are more 
striking with hydrogen. A remaikable ajjpearance presented by the current in 
the interior of the spiral is, that it seems to undergo a very distinct movement 
of rotation, in a direction which appears to vary with the direction of the dis- 
charge ; but this last result is not very constant, which has led me to think that 
the rotation is only apparent, and that it is the effect of the discontinuity of the 
discharges which constitute the current, a discontinuity which produces the 
illusion of a displacement. This point, however, deserves to be studied anew. 

In order to observe the action of magnetism on the spiral current, I place the 
spiral of glass between the two poles of the electro-magnet in such a way that 
its plane shall be the same with that of the two polar surfaces, the two prolon- 
gations being thus rendered vertical, the one above, the other below, that plane. 
The magnetization, according to its direction, either condenses the current 
towards tlie interior walls of the spiral tube, or, on the contrary, repels it towards 
the exterior walls, rendering it very difi'use. In the first case, it becomes highly 
brilliant, and the stratifications are very distinct; in the second case, they are 
but slightly visible, and the current itself is much larger and quite dim. It 
aj)pcars to undergo, in even a more sensible manner, the movement of rotation, 
of which we have spoken. A quite curious fact is, that in the vertical branch 
of the tube which is below the spiral, and consequently between the two 
branches of the electro-magnet, the current divides itself, under the influence of 
the magnetism, into two streams or filaments, which tend, respectively, to one 
and the other side of the tube. Of these two filaments, one is very small, and 
of little brilliancy, in comparison with the other. The cause of this separation 
consists, very probably, in the fact that the inductive current of the Ruhmkorff 
apparatus is really composed, as Ave have already taken occasion to say, of two 
successive and opposite inductive currents, one having much more tension, and 
passing almost exclusively through the gas, while the other is transmitted with 
much difficulty, but yet passes, in very small proportion, it is true, since the 
action of the magnet separates it from the principal current, Avhich is the only 
one in general that it is requisite to consider in this kind of phenomena, because 
it is by much the strongest. 

I have sought to determine in the case of the spiral tube, as I had done Avith 
the large rectilinear tube, the influence of magnetization on the resistance of the 
gas to the transmission of the discharge, and 1 have obtained a rather curious 
result. The tAvo points of platina of the apparatus of derivation being at a dis- 
tance of ten millimetres from one another in the distilled water, I obtained a 
derivative current of 20°, the spiral tube being filled Avith hydrogen under the 
pressure of 2""". The spiral Avas placed A'ertically between the tAvo horizontal 
armatures of the electro-magnet Avhich Avere exactly in contact Avith its tAvo 
faces. As soon as the magnetization took place, the derivative current Avas re- 
duced to 15°, Avhen the discharge Avas repelled, and driAcn tOAvards the exterior 
Avails of the spiral Avith an apparent movement of rotation, and it Avas raised, on 
the contrary, to 25°, Avhen the discharge Avas condensed towards the interior 
Avails of the spiral. Does this influence of the direction of the current or of the 
magnetization de])end on the particular form given to the stream, or to the small 
diamctoi- of the tube, in comparison Avith its dcA'clopmeut in length ? It is a 
point for future elucidation. 

I pass uoAv to the case Avhere the magnetic pole is in the midst of the gas 
which transmits the discharge. I have first operated with a spherical globe. 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 187 

about fifteen centimetres in diameter, furnislied with four tubulures situated at 
the respective extremities of two diameters of the globe, which intersect one 
another at right angles. Two cylindrical rods of soft iron are fixed by means 
of two of these tubulures in the interior of the globe, in the direction of 
the same diameter, so that their interior extremities may be at a distance of 
about eight or ten centimetres from one another, while their exterior extremities 
project from the tubulure nearly two centimetres. It is these exterior extremi- 
ties which are to be placed in contact with the poles of a strong electro-magnet, 
in order that the interior extremities may thus become two magnetic poles. 
The two other tubulures serve to introduce into the interior of the globe two 
isolated metallic rods, terminated by balls Avhich are at a distance of about ten 
centimetres from one another, and which serve as electrodes to the electric 
stream whose direction is thus equatorial, that is to say, perpendicular to the 
right line which joins the two magnetic poles. As long as the rods of soft iron 
are not magnetized, the electric stream remains perfectly rectilinear ; but so soon 
as magnetization takes place, the stream, which we will suppose to have a hori- 
zontal direction, takes the form of a half circumference of a circle situated either 
above or below the line which joins the magnetic poles, according to the direc- 
tion of the magnetization or that of the discharge. The form of the luminous 
arc is that of a half ring much flattened, as well as widened. The striae are 
strongly marked in it, more than they were in the rectilinear current, and its 
exterior part is much serrated, especially when the gas contains a little vapor 
of alcohol or ether. If the electric current, instead of being equatorial, is axial, 
that is to say, directed from one of the magnetic poles to the other, these two 
poles serving it as electrodes, it exijerieuces no sensible modification under the 
influence of magnetization. 

If, however, the discharge is made to pass between a ball of brass and one 
of iron, placed at the extremity of an iron rod so as to be cajDable of being mag- 
netized, there is observed, at the moment of magnetization, a movement of de- 
pression, or of elevation in the luminous atmosphere which surrounds the ball 
of iron. This movement pertains evidently to the change of direction under- 
gone by the electric filaments which radiate from the ball. But the best mode of 
studying the action of magnetism in the cases where the magnetized bar is in the 
interior of the gas, is to make use of a bell or cylindrical jar sixteen centimetres 
in diameter by twenty centimetres in height, in the axis of which is placed a 
rod of soft iron having a diameter of about three centimetres, whose rounded 
end is situated at the middle of the axis of the cylinder. This rod is planted 
in a circular disc, which serves to close the jar. A metallic ring, about twelve 
centimetres in diameter, formed of Avire from 3 to 4"^™ in diameter, and having 
for its centre the top of the iron rod, is situated in a plane perpendicular to the 
axis of the jar. This ring communicates, by means of a rod covered with an 
isolating coat which is soldered to it, with one of the poles of the Ruhmkorff" 
apparatus, Avhile the other pole is placed in communication, outside the jar, 
with the extremity of the rod of soft iron, which, in the interior of the jar, is 
also covered with an isolating coat, except at its summit. It is between this 
summit and the ring of which it is the centre that the discharge takes place. 
In order to magnetize the rod of soft iron, it now sufiices to place it in contact, 
by its exterior extremity, with the pole of an electro-magnet, taking care to 
place between the two a thin strip of caoutchouc to serve as an isolating layer, so 
that the whole apparatus shall be well isolated. The cylindrical jar is also 
closed at that one of its two extremities where the rod of soft iron is absent, 
and it is there furnished with two cocks, of which one serves to form a vacuum, 
and to introduce a gas which is more or less rarefied ; and the other, constructed 
in Gay Lussac's manner, permits the introduction into the ball of a greater or 
less quantity of vapor of whatever nature. 



1S8 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

I liave mule many exporimcnt? with this jar by filling it successively with 
atmospheric air, with nitrogen, and with hydrogen, at difterent degrees of rare- 
faction, these gases being at times perfectly dry ; at others, containing a greater 
or less proi)ortion of vapor, either of water or of alcohol. 

Atmospheric air and nitrogen, when both dry, give nearly identical results, 
with this ditferencc, that the light is more vivid and clearer with nitrogen. If 
the soft iron be taken for the positive electrode, and the ring for the negative 
one, the luminous current is seen to form, at a certain degree of rarefaction, a 
sort of peac'h-red envelope around the top of the soft iron, and a sheath of a 
pale violet color along an arc of a greater or less number of degrees around the 
ring. At a very weak pressure this sheath encompasses the whole ring, while 
the to]i of the soft iron is completely enveloped with a rose-colored aureole, 
from which issues a very short stream of the same shade, and presenting the 
form of a large virgule, or comma. This virgule, when the iron is magnetized, 
is distinctly seen to turn in one or the other direction,. with the aureole from 
which it fuianates, according to the direction of the magnetization. The violet- 
colored slieath which surrounds the ring is also seen to turn in the same direc- 
tion with the rose-colored aureole, although they are separated by a space 
complcicly obscure. By changing the direction of the discharges, there will be 
seen at the negative electrode a violet-colored envelope, which only covers the 
whole surface of the top of the iron rod when the gas is very much rarefied, and 
at the positive electrode, brilliant points, separated from one another by a roseate 
glimmer which surrounds the entire ring, and whence emanate regular stratifi- 
cations, internally concentric to the ring. When the gas is not greatly rarefied, 
theie is seen to issue from the ring a luminous jet which tends to the summit 
of the central rod of soft iron, being only separated from it by a small, black 
space, and which undergoes a movement of rotation in one direction or the 
other, like the hand of a watch, according to the direction of the magnetization. 
In this case there is but a portion of the top of the iron rod which is covered 
with the violet envelope, and thia luminous segment turns with the brilliant jet. 

I have made a great number of experiments, under the conditions just indi- 
cated, with atmospheric air, with nitrogen, and with hydrogen, Avhether dry or 
more or less charged with vapors. I shall proceed to give a description of them 
in a summary manner, first remarking, however, that, whatever be the gas and 
its degree of elasticity, whether it be dry or impregnated with vapor, the rapidity 
of rotation is always much greater when the ring serves as the positive than 
when it serves as negative electrode, and that this rotation, which increases in 
rapidity in proportion as the tension diminishes, ceases to be appreciable at a 
much less tension in the second case than in the first. 

In my earlier experiments I had made use of a large globe, twentj^-five cen- 
timetres in diameter, in which the ring was twenty centimetres in diameter, 
and the central iron rod three. This globe was furnished with two tubulures, 
one serving to introduce the iron rod,, whose top reached the centre of the 
globe, and its lower extremity issuing from the tubulure, so as to be capable of 
resting on the polar surface of an electro-magnet. The other tubulure was 
closed by acock, which served to introduce the gas and vapor, and from it there 
issued an isolated conductor, which supported the ring and admitted of its being 
jdaced in the circuit. The discharge thus passed between the summit of. the 
rod of soft iron and the metallic ring. 

This globe was^ filled with air rarefied to 4'"™. The discharge took place 
under the form of a stream which turned with a rapidity of sixty revolutions 
per minute when the ring was positive, and twenty Avheu it was negative. At 
a pressure of C"™ the velocity was only forty revolntions per second in the 
ibrmer case and twenty in the latter. With vapor of alcohol, at a pressure of 
.')"»■', the velocity was respectively twenty-two and eleven revolutions per minute. 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY, 180 

After these first experiments, which served as my introduction to this sort of 
researches, I resumed the study by availing myself of the jar of twenty by six- 
teen centimetres, described above. The following are the results obtained with 
dry atmospheric air : 

Pressure. Number of revolutions iu a minute. 

Ring', positive. Ring, negative. 

16'"°^ 55 oG 

iy""Ji 83 55 

9'"'" 99 63 

G'"« „ 100 

3"m „ 128 



At 9°^™, with the ring serving as a positive electrode, there is no longer a 
stream, but a dilatation of the discharge, forming a sector of from 30° to 45'^ ; 
and this sector obeys the movement of rotation as the stream before obeyed it. 
But it enlarges, in proportion as the pressure diminishes, and at 6™'» forms a 
complete circular sheet, and it is then that the rotation, which, up to this point, 
had increased iu rapidity, becomes no longer sensible. When the ring serves 
as a negative electrode it is covered with a violet sheath, whose size likewise 
increases in proportion as the pressure diminishes, but which occupies only half 
the circumference of the ring under a pressure of 4™"^. It is seen to turn very 
rapidly, but at a pressure of 2""™ it occupies the whole circumference of the 
ring, and there is no longer any sensible rotation. At the summit of the mag- 
netized iron rod there is a roseate aureole, from which, as has been said, emanates 
at one point a very short jet iu shape of a comma, which turns with the violet- 
colored sheath, from which it is separated by a very considerable obscure interval. 

It should be remarked that, at a pressure of 6, of 4, and sometimes of even 
3™"", it most often happens, when the ring serves as positive electrode, that at 
the first moment of the circuit being formed there issues a stream which turns 
too rapidly to allow its velocity of rotation to be measured, but which quickly 
expands so as to form, for so ne instants, a sector which continues to revolve, 
and soon after a complete circular Sheet, which no longer manifests any movement. 

It does not follow that the action of magnetism is annulled when the gas is 
too much rarefied for the continuance of a sensible rotation. That action is 
manifested under another form, as is shown by experiments made under a 
pressure of from 3 to 2^^^™. Thus, if the ring serves as negative electrode, the 
violet sheath which surrounds the soft iron is seen, at the moment when this 
last is magnetized, to subside sensibly, and to rise at the instant of its being 
demagnetized. If, on the contrary, the ring serves as positive electrode, the 
rose-colored sheet Avhich tills the interval between the ring and the summit of 
the central rod of iron is raised, as well as the violet sheet which issues from 
that summit, at the moment of magnetization, and depressed at the instant of 
demagnetization. 

The following is a more complete experiment with dry nitrogen, and shows 
that rotation begins to manifest itself at stronger pressures when the ring is 
positive than when it is negative : 

Pressure. Number of rotations in a minute. 

Ring, positive. Ring, negative. 

35™°i 12 , 

29°''" 27 

2lmm 45 3G 

16'™ 67 51 

121121 99 ,'39 

8«i™ 115 70 

6mm „ 115 

5™™ ,, 150 



100 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING 

At 4""™ the rotation is too rapid to allow its degree to be observed ; at 3™™ 
it appears completely to cease. The rose-colored aureole is very vivid when 
the summit of the rod of soft iron is positive. When there is no longer any 
rotation, there is observed, as with atmospheric air, a movement of depression 
and of ascension under the influence of magnetization. 

The presence of vapor modilies in some important particulars the results 
obtained with dry gases. The following is an experiment made with ordinary 
air subjected to a pressure of 2™™, into which vapor of water has been intro- 
duced in successive quantities, so as to increase that pressure solely by the 
eflect of the presence of the vapor: 

Pressure. Number of rotations in a minute. 

Rinff, positive. Ring, negative. 

2 mm 
..........••••••--•- ,, ...................... ,, 

4'"'° „ M 

6°>m „ 92 

8™™ 140 70 

10™™ 120 52 

12™™ 90 50 

14™™ 80 48 

We sec that at an equal pressure the rapidity of rotation is greater with 
vajjor of water than Avitli dry air, which is attributable probably to the greater 
facility with which the electric discharge is transmitted. With the external 
air of a mean humidity, we have, with a pressure of 14™™, 72 revolutions 
instead of 80 Avhen the ring is positive, and 44 instead of 48 when it is 
negative. 

But the most characteristic fact produced by the presence of watery vapor 
is the division, under the influence of magnetism, of the single current into 
several small distinct and equidistant currents, which turn like the radii of a 
wheel. This division is only observed when the ring serves as a positive 
electrode. At a pressure of 6™™ the single current begins with turning, then 
(ixpands, whereupon the rotation is no longer perceptible ; but at the pressure 
of 8, of 10, and of 12™™ this current, from the commencement of its rotation 
under the action of magnetism, divides into five or six small sti-eams which 
turn, as was just said, like the radii of a wheel ; while, when the air is dry, the 
current never divides ; but, under a weak pressure, it merely expands into a 
sector or a circle of which all the parts arc continiious. 

When the riug is negative, and there is vapor present, it will be seen that 
the current which issues from the summit of the iron rod presents, where it is 
in contact with the iron and at the moment when this is magnetized, instead of 
a continuous smface, a series of small brilliant points, which seem points of 
emanation for as many small currents, too little distant from one another to 
hecome distinct. Here, then, this current, which does not divide into separate 
filaments, simply undergoes dilatation or expansion at the point where it is in 
contact with the iron. 

The vapor of alcohol produces similar effects with the vapor of water. The 
single current is, in this case, much more brilliant than with dry air or with the 
vapor of water ; it presents fine stratifications, Avhich give it an appearance not 
unlike that of a caterpillar. Magnetization expands and divides it into several 
currents, sensibly larger than those observed Avith the vapor of water. If, 
however, the diameter of the ring is too large, greater, for instance, than fifteen 
centimetres, the subdivision of the current is not effected without difficulty, 
unless the intensity of the discharge and that of the magnetization be very 
considerable. 

The following is an experiment in which, the rarefied gas being hydrogen, 
different portions of alcoholic vapor were successively introduced. The pressure 



THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 191 

of the dry and pure gas was in the commencement 5™™ ; at this pressure, as we 
shall forthwith see, the hydrogen transmits the discharge only under the form 
of a luminous sheet. The pressure was afterwards augmented solely by means 
of the vapor of alcohol, with the following results : 

Pressure. Number of revolutions in a minute. 

Ring', positive. Ring, negative. 

7™™ Luminous sheet 92 

lO-"™ 80 52 

ISni"" 64 48 

IS'"" 48 38 

ISmni 40 32 

22°im 30 25 

27">™ 24 18 

36'°'° 12 10 

38™™ 12 10 

The division into distinct currents, more or less numerous, was manifested 
when the ring was the positive electrode. 

When pure and dry hydrogen is adopted as the medium in which the dis- 
charges take effect, the phenomena of rotation are obtained with giVat difficulty. 
At rather strong pressures, such as that of 128™™, we have a number of currents, 
but these currents are too intermittent to allow of the magnet's acting upon them. 
At 90"'™ I have obtained a small stream under the form of a bluish-white 
iilament, which, the ring being positive, turned at the rate of thirty-five times 
per minute ; but, at the lapse of some instants, it became subdivided into a 
multitude of small, irregular streams, and rotation was no longer perceptible. As 
far as 40™™, the action of the magnet was indistinct. At 30™™, the negative 
ring was covered with small violet sheaths, at equal intervals, which seemed to 
experience, at the moment it was magnetized, a tendency to move in one direc- 
tion or the other, according to the direction of the magnetization. The same 
was the case with the small brilliant points, likewise distributed at minute in- 
tervals, with which the ring, Avhen positive, is covered. At 5™™, and still more 
at three and at two, the ring is entirely covered, when it is negative, with aline 
violet-colored sheath, which becomes contracted under the influence of the mag- 
net. The top of the iron rod, which is then positive, is surrounded by a beau- 
tiful white aureole, slightly tinged with rose, three centimetres in breadth, and 
stratified in a very marked degree. Magnetization sensibly contracts this au- 
reole, and compresses its striae without diminishing their number, elevating it, 
and, at the same time, giving it the form of a pear resting with its base on the 
magnetic pole. When this pole is the negative electrode, there issues from it, 
as we have seen, a brilliant tuft of a violet color, which conforms itself to the 
action of the magnet. 

All the phenomena just described show, in a striking manner, the molecular 
differences which various elastic fluids present, as regards one another, even at 
an advanced degree of rarefaction. Thus in hydrogen, although that gas is a 
very good conductor of electricity, electric currents can, wuth difficulty, and, 
indeed, scarcely at all, obey the action of the magnet, probably by reason of the 
slight density of the gas. In air, and in nitrogen, it is quite otherwise, and still 
more when these gases are humid. The singular property possessed by the 
electric current of dividing itself into several small and distinct streams, instef.d 
of diffusing itself, under the influence of magnetization, when the medium which 
transmits it contains a more or less quantity of vapor, would seem to indicate 
in the vapor a greater cohesion than in the gases properly so called, if, indeed, 
we may employ the term cohesion when the question relates to elastic fluids so 
much rarefied. It might also be possible that this division into streamlets is 



192 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 

the result of an optical illusion, due to a very rapid succession of jets emanating 
from diireioiit points, and wliicli, in reality, are not simultaneous. This is a 
point for examination. 

However this may be, it is evident that the study of the stratification of elec- 
tric light, and of the action of the magnet on the discharges in different gaseous 
mediums, discloses differences between those mediums which can only result 
from their difference of molecular constitution. Density, in particular, would 
appear to have a great influence on this order of phenomena, since we see hy- 
drogen manifest them in so feeble a degree, while the vapors of Avater, and 
especially of alcohol and ether, present them in so decided a manner. The 
proper nature of elastic fluids, opposing more or less resistance to the transmis- 
sion of electricity, must, doubtless, also play its part. It might not be impos- 
sible then, that, in a more detailed and more exhaustive study of the phenomena 
with which our attention has been occupied, and more particularly of those re- 
lating to the action of the magnet on electric currents propagated in much rare- 
fied elastic fluids, Ave may be able to find the means of acquiring some ncAV ideas 
on the physical constitution of bodies, and on the manner in which the propa- 
gation of electricity is therein efi'ected. 



REPORT ON THE PROCEEDINGS 

OF THE 

SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA, 

FEOM JULY, 18G'2, TO JUNE, 1863. 



BY PIIOFRSSOR .MARCET, PRESIDENT. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



I.\ proceeding, as has been the custom of my predecessors, to present an 
account of the hibors of the societ}' during the year just ehipsed, it is but 
proper that I slioukl aekno\vh;dge how greatly my task has been facilitated by 
the scrupulous exactness with which the reports of our several meetings have 
been drawn up by our secretary, M. Ed. Claparedc. Among the topics claiming 
my attention, many have been already communiciited to the public, or are'about 
to be so, through the medium of scientific Journals ; as regards these, therefore, 
I shall restrict myself to an indication of the titles, or a very summary analysis 
of the conclusions arrived at. In the arrangement of subjects I cannot do better 
than adopt the division into two sections, that of the physical and that of the 
natural sciences, first proposed b}- 31. de la Rive, and since observed by the 
greater part of the presidents who have succeeded him. I shall follow, more- 
over, the example of my immediate joredecessor in touching very lightly on the 
discussions which have taken place either on the occasion of original memoirs 
read before the society or of verbal. reports on recent discoveries made in other 
countries ; not that these discussions have not often possessed a genuine interest, 
but because it is essential, if this valuab'e observance is to be retained by us, 
that the appreciation of the labors of others, the verbal communications in 
which one is sometimes led to enunciate ideas arising at the moment and perhaps 
not always sufficiently considered, should receive no greater publicity than that 
which results from the reading of the journal of our sittings. 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 

Our indefatigable colleague. Professor Gautier, has continued to keep the 
society well informed of the discoveries made in astrunonuj . His communica- 
tions have been numerous and diversified ; we must here limit ourselves to the 
mention of the most important. M. Gautier presented to the society, in the first 
jilacc, a report on the observations of M. d'Arrest, of Copenhagen, relative to 
ihe number and to the variability in brightness of the nebula?, as well as to 
certain points, still doubtful, which would tend to indicate a proper movement 
in some of those bodies ; secondly, an account of a memoir of M. Lamon on the 
p(;riods of the variations of magnetic declination, and the analysis of researches 
by M. Maine on the flattening of i\Iars, Mhich he estimates at tJ.j ; thirdly, a 
report on some recent observations of il. Donati on the comets, and on a memoir 
of the same author relative to stellar spectra : M. Gautier announced on this 
13 s 



194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

occasion tliat Father Secclii also was occupied in the study of stellar spectra 
compared with the solar spectrum; fourthl}-, M. Gautier presented lastly to the 
society a plate oi' Father Secchi, representing the different appcij-ances of the 
nucleus of the comet of 1862, differences which, as M. Wartmann, sr., has 
pointed out, might result, at least in part, from the circumstance that the 
observations took place at diff"erent hours. 

Professor I'lantamour announces that he has collated the series of observa- 
tions made for twenty years on the latitude of the observatory of Geneva. 
That latitude would be 46° 11' 5S".75, with a mean error of some hundredths 
of a second. 

Mvtcorolog)/ and terrestrial jjJnjsics establishing a natural bond between 
astronomy and jihysics properly so called, we shall first direct our attention to 
several communications which wc owe to Professor Plantamour. Besides the 
annual meteorological summary for Geneva and Saint-Bernard, published, as 
usual, in the archives of the physical and natural sciences of the " Bibliolheque 
Univcrselle,'" ]\I. Plantamour has communicated to the society an interesting 
memoir relative to observations made at Geneva, for thirty-five years, on the 
force and direction of the winds. lie has found that in winter the number of 
northeast and that of southwest winds balance each others the northeast pre- 
domiuates in spring and in autumn, the southwest in summer. The general 
resultant is a little west of north, which proceeds from the fact that the mean 
direction of northeast winds more nearly approximates to north than does the 
mean direction of southwest Avinds to south. The above results are somewhat 
mortified if the origin of the winds be taken into account and if local are dis- 
tinguished from general winds. The former depend chiefly on the vicinity of 
the lake and the variation of temperature in the twenty -four hours, giving rise 
to a regular breeze morning and evening, analogous to breezes of the land and 
sea. The memoir of 31. Plantamour has been lately published in his extensive 
work on the climate of Geneva. (See page 1^, ct sequent.) 

The same savant read to the society a memoir on the diurnal variations of 
the atmos[)heric pressure, a- memoir likewise published in the work just men- 
tioned. After having passed in review and combated as insufficient the theories 
proposed by MM. Krail and Dove, M. Plantamour concludes in favor of that 
proposed by M. Lanion, according to which the phenomenon of the diurnal 
variation Avould depend on two distinct influences, one resulting from the tem- 
perature properly so called, the other from a kind of electric attraction, whose 
nature is as yet completely unknown, but owing pjrobably to the action of the 
sun. M. Plantamour founds his preference for this theory over the preceding 
on the consideration that it furnishes the means of explaining the double diurnal 
oscillation -which is obsei-ved in the barometer, while the influence of the tem- 
perature, it would appear, ought to produce but a single one. The author 
presents, in support of his opinion, a comparative table of the diurnal variation 
of the temperature and of the barometer for Geneva and Saint-Bernard. 

To complete bur analysis of what relates to terrestrial physics and meteor- 
ology, I have still to notice two communications, one from Professor de la Rive, 
relative to an aurora ])orealis observed in the month of December, in Avhich the 
rotation of the arch from east to west was perfectly evident, and another from 
]\I. Louis Soret, who has presented to the Society an apparatus constructed 
according to his directions in the workshop of M. Schwerdt, an apparatus de- 
signed for the measurement of heights by a determination of the temperature of 
the ebullition of water. In the construction of this instrument, the chief object 
of M. Soret has been to attain a perfect precision in thermometrical indications, 
a condition which has heretofore been wanting. He has succeeded, on the one 
hand, by surrounding the ball of the thermometer with two envelopes of vapor 
instead of one, in abating the variations of temperature proceeding from with- 
out ; and, on the other hand, he prevents the effect of an ebullition often too 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 195 

mucli precipitated, by immersing the bottom of the lamp of alcohol, by the flame 
of which the water is to be made to boil, in a bath of cold water. The sole, yet 
somewhat grave objection which has been advanced against this apparatus, is, 
that in a still gi-eatcr degree perhaps than the barometer, it requires to be observed 
with scrupulous care, and demands precautions which can scarcely be ex- 
pected on the part of observers who are not physicists. 

If we pass now to ^j/'y/^/c* properly so ' called, we shall see that, as in the 
past, it is electricity which has played the principal part in the communications 
made to the Society during the year under review. Our colleague, M. de la 
Itive, has communicated to us, at two consecutive meetings, the results of his 
researches on the phenomena which characterize and accompany the propagation 
of electricity in highly rarefied clastic fluids. In the classification of his ap- 
paratus, M. de la liive insists more particularly on the means which he has em- 
ployed to measure the intensity of the discharges or transmitted currents, by 
availing himself of a derived current taken by means of two small sounds of 
platina, in the distilled water placed in the circuit of the principal current. 
He also describes a manometer which enables him to appreciate to nearly the 
fiftieth part of a millimetre, and, for practiced eyes, even to the hundredth part, 
the tension of the elastic fluid submitted to experiment. The researches of 
M. de la Rive have been directed to atmospheric air, nitrogen, and hydrogen. 
He has studied, in the case of each of these gases, the influence of the dimen- 
sions and form of the gaseous mass, as well as of the j^ressure, on its capacity 
for transmitting electricity. lie has described the successive appearances 
which the electric light assumes, in proportion as the pressure of the gas dimin- 
ishes, and particularly the variable form and size of the stratifications of that 
light, together with the formation of a violet-colored photosphere around the ball 
serving as a negative electrode, and of a black space, from five to ten centi- 
metres in length, which sejiarates that photosphere from the stratified luminous 
column. He has satisfied himself, in the course of a great number of ex- 
periments, that these appearances of electric light in rarefied gases are 
due to a mechanical effect produced by the transmission of electricity, an idea 
which had already been advanced by M. lliess. M. de la Kive has suc- 
ceeded in showing, by direct experiments, that the mechanical eff"cct in ques- 
tion consists in a considerable dilatation of the gaseous matter near the negative 
electrode, followed by alternate contractions and dilatations' in the column up to 
the positive electrode. First. lie was easily able to verify, by means of the 
manometer, the existence of the oscillatory movement in the gaseous column, 
and the variations in its intensity, which depends, as he has shown, on the 
nature, degree of tension, and dimensions of the gaseous mass in question. 
Secondly. lie has demonstrated experimentally that if, by means of small sounds 
of platina suitably arranged, derived currents are taken in different parts of the 
luminous column, all traversed by the same dischai'ge, great difi'erences will be 
found in the intensity of these currents, differences which prove that the ob- 
scure parts possess a greater conducting capacity, and are consequently the most 
dilated. With hydrogen, the best conductor of the gases, no derived current 
is obtained in the obscure part of the column. Thirdly. M. de la Rive points 
out that the indications of the thermometer placed in different parts of the 
stratified column conduct us to the same results, by evincing great differences 
between the temperatures of those different parts ; the more obscure parts being 
sensibly less warm than the luminous, which proves that the former are better 
conductors. The author has obtained a great number of numerical results, in- 
dicating the differences of temperature, at different pressures of various portions 
of the gaseous column traversed by the discharges. 

M. de la Rive completed his communication at a subsequent session, by ex- 
plaining to the Society the modifications produced in the phenomena relative to 
the propagation of electricity, through highly rarefied mediums, by the action of 



196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

a etroi)"- mnjnif'tic power. This action tends to augment the resistance of the 
gascous'sul>.<tance to the transmission of electricity, hy condensing the gaseous 
tihimi-nts, and has in particular the effect of rendering luminous the obscure 
part of the column, by contracting the ])reviously too much dilat-'d gas which 
occurs there. Lastly, the attention of i\I. de la Rive was especially drawn to 
the rotatory and expansive action of magnetism on the electric discharge. IIo 
has succeeded in obtaining, in regard to this point, certain very constant f icts, 
such as those relative to the duration of the rotatory movement of the discharge, 
which varies with the direction of the current, the nature of the gas, and its 
degree of density, lie has also remarked the very great difference which the 
phenomenon presents, according as the rarefied gas is dry or contains vapor 
of water or of alcohol. In the lirst case, the luminous discharge expands undei- 
the influence of magnetism into a sheet which forms the surface of a sector, or 
even that of a full circle when the gas is very much rarefied. In the case in 
which vapor is present in the rarefied gas, the discharge, instead of expanding, 
divides into a greater or less number of small partial j(.'ts at equal interspaces, 
forming, as it were, a star animated by a movement of rotation around its centre. 
These ])henoTnena, and others of the same kind, have led M. de la Hive to 
cstablisli a difference between permanent gases and vapors, in reference to the 
point of cohesion, or rather their molecular constitution. The author termi- 
nated the reading of his m'emoir with some general considerations on this exteu- 
•givc subject ; announcing that, for the present, conclusions too absolute would 
be ])remature, and that he abstains from presenting them until he shall have 
completed his researches by extending them to a greater number of gaseous 
eubslances.' 

If we have enlarged a little more than is usual in an analysis of the memoir 
of M. de la Hive, wc find a justification, not only in the importance of the sub- 
ject, but in the circumstance that the results which he obtained have been here- 
tofore published only in fragments. The entire memoir is nbout to appear iu 
the seventeenth volume of tlu; Memoirs of the Society, now in the jjress.* 

It should be added, that we owe to 51. de la Rive the model of a new system 
of Grove's apparatus. The modification which he has introduced into llu; bat- 
tery of that jiiiysicist is essentially calculated to render its managemcnit more 
commodious and ju'ompt. Ilis instrument, which is extremely manageable, and 
is furnished with conductors of alumina, jjossesses the advantage of reqiiiiiug 
little; manipulation, and of rendering superfluous the removal of the nitric 
acid ; the same acid suflices for the service of several days and many experi- 
ments. AVith the help of a single pair of this battery, i\I. de la llive has been 
able to repeat all tin; principal experiments of the electro-dynamics of Ampere — 
experiment!? which usually require five or six pairs of Grove or of Bunsen. 

Besides some verbal communications by I*rofi;ssor Wartmann relative to 
electrical phenomena, particularly to the limit of pressure which permits a 
spark to pass through a gaseous medium, as well as to the influence which the 
Btate of tension of a gaseous medium exercises on the passage of a current, the 
eavant just named engngod the attention of the society by an account of some 
of the principal subjects discussed iu the last reunion of the British Association 
at Cambridge, at which he was present. Among the communications made on 
that occasion, 31. Wartmann cites more particularly the observations of M. 
Kasmilh relative to tin; structure of the sun. To avoid the inconvenience of a 
too great light, ]\I. Nasmith, instead of introducing tin; solar rays dinctly into 
the i-ye, "places near the oljject glass a lens which is plane on the side next the 
eye, but concave on the opposite side, so as to disperse the luminous rays and 
allow tin; study of only the quantity of light reflected by the plane surfice. 
The author has thus been able to ascertain that towards the hour of noonday 

* A full t^llIl^l,•ltiou of tliis interesting nicuioh- h g-iveu iu this report. — Sec pajje 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 197 

the luminous envelope of the sun presents a great number of ppindle-^haped 
imai^-es, which might be compared to willow leaves strewn confusedly over ita 
surface. Of these M. Wartmann has presented to the Society a pliotograph 
taken from the original designs of M. Nasmith. These images seem to be dis- 
placed one by another, sometimes parallel to thefr axis, sometimes by an angu- 
lar movement. The preceding obsei'vations have been coufiimed by M. l^it- 
chard, who announces that they may be repeated with a good telescope of from 
three to four inches. JI. Wartmann also gave an account of experiments in 
telegraphic electricity by M. Wheatstone, which he witnessed, and by which 
it is practicable to obtain despatches written with extraordinary rapidity. 

The same physicist communicated to the Society a note relative to an elec- 
trical i)henomen(m observed by M. Alizier, teacher at Geneva, July 24, 1856, 
on the summit of the Oldenhorn. (3f a sudden the staves borne by M. Alizier 
and the persons who accompanied him began to sound in the manner of the 
posts of the telegraph. In a few moments a heavy storm of hail descended. 

Professor de la Uive, on his return, in May, 18G'3, from a sojourn in Paris, 
reported to the Society several new scientific facts v/hich he had gathered. He 
drew attention, in particular, to an investigation of ^I. Ilelmholtz, hy whiih that 
savant had arrived, simultaneously with M. W. Thompson, at the conclusion 
that the earth cannot be liquid in its interior. He also thinks himself entitled 
to affirm that it is not necessary to recur to the hypothesis of aerolites falling 
continually into the sun, in order to explain the persistence of the high tem- 
perature of that body. It sufhccs to admit that the sun, having become heated 
by an undetermined cause, is now growing cold with extreme slowness; for, 
according to J\I. Ilelmholtz, the calculations heretofore made greatly exag- 
gerated the rapidity of refrigeration in regard to that body, because they 
neglected to take account of an important element, namely, that the sun 
diminishes in volume as it grows cooler, and that this contraction must de- 
velop new heat. 

M. dc la Hive presented to the Society, in the name of his son, M. Lucien de 
la Itive, a memoir on the number of independent equations in the solution of a 
system of linear currents. <rhis memoir, being wholly mathematical, is not 
adapted to analysis. 

Professor IMarcet has continued to impart to the Society many facts relative 
to nocturnal radiation ; among others, to an altogether abnormal refrigeration 
of the surface of the ground, and of the stratum of air in immediate contact 
with it, which he has remarked during the first days of March in localities 
turned tow.ards the north, not only at the hour of sunset, but even during the 
warmest hours of the day. The author attributes this extraordinary cooling 
of the surface to the concurrence of several atmospheric circumstances, but 
more especially to the extreme dryness which had prevailed for some time, and 
which, as Tyndall has proved, peculiarly facilitates the radiation of terrestrial 
heat.* 

M. Marcet has taken advantage of the residence of his son in Australia, to 
induce him to repeat at Queensland, under the 22(\ degree of south latitude, 
the experiments on nocturnal radiation, which have been recently made in our 
temperate climates. It would seem to result from these experiments that the 
])henomenon of the increase of temperature at certain jicriods of the day, when 
we ascend some feet above the surface of the earth — a phenomenon so well 
;;uthenticatcd in our temperate climates — is not remarked in the ri'gions of the 
torrid zone either at tlie lising or setting of the sun ; or if it takes ])lace, it is 
in a degree scarcely sensible, hardly ever exceeding 0^.4 Cent. M. Lucien de 
la Hive has recently made some observations in Egypt, on the banks of the 
Nile, which would appear to lead to an analogous result. M. Marcet explains 

* See Arcldves dcs Sciences Physiques et Naturdlcs, April, 1863. 



198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

tlii? apparent anomaly by attributing it to several causes, but more particu- 
larly to the great quantity of water, under the form of elastic vapor, held by 
the atmosphere in tropical regions, especially in countries but little remote 
from the sea — vapor -which, it is known, poss(;sses the property of intercepting 
in a higli degree the dark fieat emitted by the ground, and which would 
thus contribute! to render so much less apparent the efiects produced by the 
nocturnal radiation. 

Couununications on chemistry proper have this year been less numerous 
than usual. We have scarcely anytliing to cite but some remarkable researches 
of Professor Marignac on the tungstates, the fluo-tungstates, and the fluo- 
borates. The subject, although of great importance, and treated in a masterly 
manner, is too special to allow of my presenting here even a summary analysis. 
We may, besides, direct the reader for a detailed extract of the memoir to the 
compfcs rcndus of the Academy of Sciences, in anticipation of its appearance 
in cxtcnw in early numbers of the Annalcs de Chimle ct de P/njsique. 

Dr. W. Marcet has drawn the attention of the Society to investigations made 
by him on the digestion of fats, particularly on the mode in which the emulsion 
of those substances is effected by means of the bile, and probably also of the 
phosphates, which occur abundantly in animal food. The same chemist also 
communicates experiments, which he has recently undertaken, on the compo- 
sition of the gastric juice, and on the changes which it undergoes as to the 
degree of acidity during the act of digestion. 

NATURAL SCIENCES. 

The natural sciences, and more especially geology and paleontology, have 
this year had a large share in the labors of the Society. We should mention, 
in the first place, several important communications of Professor A. Pavre ; 
and, first, his geological chart of portions of Savoy, Piedmont, and Switzerland, 
in th(! neighborhood of Mont-Blanc — a chart drawn on a scale of -js^tyu-ocr' ^^^ 
which is the result of persevering and conscientious labors pursued since 1840. 
]\I. Favre has also presented us with the geological chart of the Jura mountains 
pertaining to Basle — the first published at the expense of the confederation, 
under the care and direction of M. Miillcr. It is designed on a scale of 5 oooo- 
There is reason to fear, however, that the enterprise cannot be continued in 
such wide proportions, and that it will be necessary to return to the scale of 

i— 00*0 077- '^^^^ chart is accompanied by a publication in two series — one for the 
ura, the other for the Alps. 

I\I. Favre alf^o read to the Society a memoir containing a detailed description 
of the mountain of the Voirons, of which he has determined the succession of 
the dilFerent strata. This memoir will soon appear in the text which will ac- 
company the chart of Savoy. 

The same geologist read to the Society a critical analysis of MM. Koechlin- 
Schlumberger and Schimper on the transition deposit of the Vosges — a deposit 
referred at present to the old carboniferous series. He also presented, in the 
name of M. Studer, a geological memoir on the Balligstock and the Bi'atcnberg, 
situated on the borders of the Lake of Thoune — a memoir which has been pub- 
lished in the Archives of the Physical and Natural Sciences. 

Professor ]^ictet read to the Society a note containing critical observations on 
the sul)ject of a new stratum, which IM. Coquand proposes to introduce into the 
series of cretaceous formations— a stratum already known under the name of 
♦'alpine neocomian," and to which he proposes to give that of " baremian" 
consi.lering it as the equivalent of the yellow stone of Neuchatel. M. Pictet, 
witliout disputing tlie propriety of a new name, does not admit, between the 
bari'mian and the yellow stone of Neuchatel, so precise and restricted a paral- 
lelism. 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 199 

The same savaut called the attention of the Society to an alleged reptile with 
feathers, found iu the Jurassic of Soleuhofer, and described by M. Wagner 
as possessing at ouce the tail of a reptile and the feathers and feet of a bird. 
This fossil has been acquired for the British Museum by M. Oweu, who will 
soon publish a detailed description of it. • 

The Society has continued to keep itself informed of the facts relative to the 
"fossil mem." Its interest has been particularly excited by the discovery of 
the human jaw-bone of Moulin-Quignon, near Abbeville. M. Pictet, who took 
occasion very recently to study, at Paris, this bone, and the hatchets which ac- 
companied it, has set forth to the Society the reasons which seemed to him to 
render the authenticity of those objects incontestable, notwithstanding the doubts 
at first expressed on this subject by eminent paleontologists. More recently we 
have learned with much interest that a sort of scientific congress had been con- 
voked at Paris, and the authenticity admitted with unanimity. It remains to 
solve the question of antiquity — that is to say, to decide what place the deposit 
of Moulin-Quignoii should occupy in the series of quaternary and modern 
formations. 

-^M. Ilenevier has communicated to us a photographic view of the Diablerets, 
geologically colored, and has, at the same time, given to the Society an account 
of some recent geological excursions in the vaudese Alps. He has been enabled 
to complete the series of Jurassic formations iu this district by the discovery, in 
the Diablerets, of a stratum of hajocian, (inferior oolite,) and of a stratum of 
bathonian, (greater oolite,) the first being characterized by a gigantic fucoid. 
Finally, M. Renevier announces grains of "chara" in the uummulitic of the 
Diablerets. 

We arrive now at organic natural history, and it remains to speak of botany 
and zoology. 

Botany. — Professor De Candolle has presented to the Society several in- 
teresting communications relative to vegetable physiology and to botany proper ; 
particularly a paper on a new charac'ter observed in the fruit of oaks, and on 
the best division to adopt for the genus "Quercus;" a memoir entitled Studies 
on species, occasioned hy a revision of the foividy of Cupid fercB, in which the 
author discusses the system of Darwin, and the theory, applied to the vegetable 
kingdom, of a succession of forms proceeding from the deviations of an anterior 
form. Both these memoirs having been published in the archives of the physical 
and natural sciences of the Bibliotheque Universelle we shall here content 
ourselves with indicating them to savants who are interested in questions of 
this kind. 

Besides the original memoirs just cited, M. de Candolle brought to the notice 
of the Society some iiiteresting results of observations made by M. Schubler 
" on plants cultivated in Norway." The author has shown us in what degree 
the deficiency of heat, in northern regions, appears to be compensated by the 
prolonged action of the light due to the length of the days ; to such an extent 
that, in proportion as we advance towards the north, the coloration and sapidity 
of plants seem to increase rather than diminish in intensity. 

M. de Candolle has also drawn attention to two memoirs of Dr. Hooker. The 
first relates to a plant discovered on the African continent, opposite Fernando-Po, 
to which he has given the name of Welwitschia. This plant, whose trunk is a 
cone of little height, surmounted by a torous (hosseU) table attaining a diameter 
of six feet, presents the singular character of having but two leaves, which are 
indeciduous cotyledons. It is the only vegetable known Avhose cotyledons are 
not caducous. The second memoir of M. Hooker relates to the celebrated 
group of cedars of Lebanon, which is found to be established on the moraine 
of an ancient glacier, and which this botanist visited in ISGO. M. Hooker is 
inclined to think that, in the present circumstances of climate, this tree could, 
with difficulty, establish itself on the mountain where it is found, and pronounces 



200 TROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

tho opinion that llic old cedars wliicli now exist there arc but the remains of 
an ani-ient fon-st. datiii}; from an epoch more favorable to the development of 
the specii ;*. Jt is ccitain, in the mean lime, that the cedar of Lebanon, that of 
the Himalaya, and that of the Atlas present varieties which it is ditlicult to 
distinj^aiish from one another. Hence M. Hooker is disposed to admit that 
they all descend from one primitive form, which has spread itself over a vast 
region when the climate was more temperate than it is at present. 

To Kev. 51. Diiby we are indebted for a note relative to observations made 
at Bombay, on a chami)igrion or fungus which attacks the feet of the natives, 
and produces a malady known in the country under the name of " podelcoma 
mycetoma." The bones of the foot and lower leg are gradually perforated 
through and through, and the champignon, which bears spores very similar to 
those (if the ouliuin, lodges in the cavities thus formed, under the shape of a 
ppongv mass. M. Duby has also occupied our attention with the very ingenioiia 
observations of 51. Darwin on '• the mode of fecundation of the red ilax." The 
same botanist also announces that he has observed in the CallistacJij/s linearis 
a very remarkable movtmcnt of the inferior leaves which, at the decline of day 
embrace the stem, while the superior leaves embrace the ear. 

Zoologif and P/ii^siologi/. — Dr. Dor called the attention of the Society to a 
new tlieoiy of Daltonism, or rather to an old theory of Young, to which there 
seems to be a tendency to recur at the pn^sent time. Agreeably to this theory 
there exist in the retina three descriptions of nervous fibres; the first sensitive 
to red, the second to green, the third to violet. Daltonists, then, would be 
tliosc in whoin one of these orders of fibres' is completely paralyzed. M. Dor 
has also proposed a new scale of characters for measuring the distinctness of 
vision. 

51. Victor Fatio presented to the Society a specimen of a lizard of the Alps 
called " Laccrta nigra," regarded by some authors as constituting a particular 
species. 51. Fatio is rather dis]iosed to consider it as being but a simple variety 
of the " Lacerta vivipara," and he adduces the reasons which lead him to hold 
this opinion. 

'J'he same physiologist read to the Society a note on the habits of the " pleo- 
bate cultripede," of the coasts of Brittany. He has ascertained that this batra- 
chian is a nocturnal animal, Mhich buries itself dui-ing the day in the sand, and 
remains there till night in a state of conijilete iunr.obility. 51. Fatio has also 
commmiicated to us a ])lan of goograjdiical distribution, designed to form the 
basis of an extensive work, wlueh he has undertaken with the vicAV of making 
a complete catalogue of the \(,'rtebrata of Switzerland. 

To complete what we have to say on organic natural history, we should 
mention an interesting notice by 51. Mullcr, relative to the recent modifications 
■which the theory of cellular org;niization has undergone through the infiuence 
of the labors of 5151. J-Jriicke and 51a.\. Schultze; and a communication of 51. 
Claparede, in which that physiologist renders an accouiit of some epidemic 
instances of "trichinus spiralis" lately authenticated in Germany, and more 
especially in Saxony. It, is now known that the larva of this })arasite continues 
to liv(! in the llesli of the hog when insufficiently smoked. Xow, a single pair 
of these animalcules, arriving at maturity in the human intestine, sulilce to 
infect with larv;c all the nuiscles of the body, and to occasion the gravest cou- 
eeqnences, sometimes evtju death. 'Plie danger of such an infection is now so 
fully realized that the inhabitiuit.s of Flanen, in Saxony, have established at 
their slangliier-liouse an official, j)rovided with a microscope, and have prohibited 
the sale of hogs whose flesh has not been jjreviously examined with the help of 
that instrument.* 



* For au appcudix to tliis part of the report see the cud of this article. 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 201 

Dr. Gosse lias communicated to the Society a note of M. Campbell relative 
to the frequency of goitre, in the dif?tricts near the foot of the Himalaya — a 
malady with which ulao goats and sheep are frequently infected when they de- 
scend from the mountain Lastly, Dr. Lombard has read to us a detailed 
extract of observations publishei by M. Jordanuet, a French physician, on the 
climate of Mexico, considered in a medical point of vie 



Having thus presented a cursory review of our proceedings during the past 
year, my task unfortunately is still incomplete; for, notwithstanding the re- 
stricted number of our members, scarcely a year passes in which your presiding 
otlicer, in his annual report, is not called on to deplore the loss of one or more 
of them. This year has removed two from among us: one of them, ]\L Le 
Hoyer, a retired member, of advanced age; the other, j\L Etieune Melly, a 
member in ordinary, whose years authorized us to hope that we might long re- 
tain him. I must not close this report without briefly recalling the titles they 
possessed to the esteem of the learned world and the affection of their colleagues. 

Etienue JMeily, born at Geneva, in 1807, early evinced a decided taste for the 
physical sciences. After successfully pursuing the course of our Academy, he 
went to Paris to complete his scientilic studies, and on his return to his country 
was attached to the Lidustrial school of this city as a teacher of physics and 
chemistry, the study of which he may be said to have created in the establish- 
ment in question, and from tlie superintendence of which he never desisted 
until the infirm state of his health made it impossible for him to give to his 
duties the care and attention which his scrupulous conscience exacted. While 
thus employed he prosecuted divers physico-chemical researches of great interest, 
only a part of which, owing to his characteristic diffidence, have been commu- 
nicated to the public. His two principal publications appeared, the first, in 
1839, in the Bihlio/heque Unin'rs(dle, the second, in 1841, in the first volume 
of the Archives de V Klcctricite. The former treats of certain felicitous attempts 
which he had made to apply platina to other metals by means of pressure so as 
to obtain a very solid phite, and be thus able to substitute, in certain chemical 
processes, for utensils of platina, utensils of platinized copper. This mode of 
platinizing offers greater assurance than that by electricity ; in that it better 
resists the action of chemical agents. 

The second publication of M. Melly, and that of most importance, embraces 
two distinct parts : the first, relating to a more economical construction of the 
battery of" Grove, then just invented, and to the study of the chemical effects of 
electricity by means of that a])paratus. The second part has for its object the 
study of the chemical effects of the electric spark, whether produced by Grove's 
battery or by currents of induction. M .Melly sets forth in his memoir the 
numerous experiments by which he had succeeded in decomposing, by means 
of that spark, not only distilled water, but the most isolating substances, such 
as oils, ethers, alcohol, &c. He establishes, by a well-sustained analysis of the 
results he had obtained, the difference which exists between this mode of de- 
composition and electro-chemical decomposition properly so called, and he shows 
that it is an effect, not of electricity itself, but of the intense heat developed by 
the electric spark. 

We know that this decomposing power of heat, carried to a high degree, has 
been since demonstrated in a direct manner upon water, without the interven- 
tion of electricity, by M. Grove, and has been extended upon a wide scale to a 
multitude of substances by M. Deville, who has called it, " the dissociation of 
bodies by heat." Still, there will remain to M. Melly the honor of having first, 
by his ingenious experiments, called the attention of the learned world to this 
important subject. Independently of what he has made known by his publi- 



202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OP 

cations, IMclly, ^Yllo knew no remission of labor, often obfaincd interesting 
results Avbicli be kept to bimself, or communicated but to a few of Lis friends. 
Tlio tlistressiiiy- state of bis bealtb baving compelled bim, many years since, to 
abandon bis laboratory, be did not give way to discouragement, but continued 
to devote bimself witb tbe same ardor to tbe microscopic investigations wbicb 
constituted tbe scientific interest of bis latter days. Of tliese be bas left but 
few written notices; tbcir results are contained in bis collections, especially in 
tbat of tbe Diatomea>, of wbicb be bas left more tban fifty boxes, containing as 
Avell tbe Diatomenc of tbe environs of Geneva, as tbose of foreign lands and tbose 
of ty})es determined by known autbors. As to tbe microscopes of wbicb be 
availed bimself, it may be affirmed tbat never liave tbe Algaj of our country • 
been studied witb tbe belp of instruments so perfect. Melly, besides, brougbt 
an extreme carefulness to tbe preparation of microscopic objects; we may judge 
of it by tbe following fact reported by Professor 'J'liury in tbe interesting notice 
wbicb be read of bis friend : Tbe collection of Diatomeaj was twice resumed 
entirely anew by Melly, because tbe distilled water and alcobol wbicb be bad 
employed were found to be not absolutely pure. 

Of a conversation as frank as amiable, Melly bad, moreover, tbat devotedness 
for otbcrs, wbose cbaracter is tbe most complete self-abnegation. Happy in tbe 
success and welfare of bis friends, every feeling of envy and jealousy was so 
alien from bis nature, tbat be would not even admit tbe existence of tliese evil 
sentiments in anotber. Having suffered in bis dearest affections by tbe loss of 
a beloved consort, be remained tbenceforward completely isolated. But tbis 
isolation, far from rendering bim egoistic, bad still more enlarged bis beart. 
His gratitude, for tbe cares and attentions of wbicb be was tlie ol)jcct on tbe 
part of bis friends was as toucbing as amiable. Tbe religious sentiments wbicb 
sustained bim in tbe midst of trials so various and afflicting were always 
nnited in bim witb a perfect tolerance in regard to tbose wbo did not sbare bis 
opinions. It was tbe fruit of an elevated and disinterested nature, sucb as is 
rarely witnessed. He sank, Febrnary 4, 1SG3, after long and acute sufferings. 

Auguste Le Royer sprung from an bouorable family, and wbose ancestors 
had been pbarmaccutists from father to son ; was born at Geneva, in 1793. After 
pursuing his earlier studies in bis native city, be went in 1811 to Strasburg, 
where be passed eighteen mouths of prcparanon in studying pharmacy, bis 
future vocation. In 1813 be returned to Geneva, took an active part in tbe 
political events of tbe time, and in 1817 was admitted a pharmaceutist after an 
honorable examination. Tbenceforward Le Royer zealously occupied bimself 
in scientific labors related to bis profession. It was in 1818 that the illustrious 
Uumas, then ten years of age, entered himself as a clerk with Le Royer, and 
Bubsoquently became his principal assistant. Besides these friendly connexions 
with Dumas, Le Royer contracted others with Dr. Prevost, taking part in many 
of the physiological researches of the latter in their chemical bearing. In 1821 
be was adopted as a member of this Society and of the Helvetic Society of 
natural sciences. Tbe departure of ]\I. Dumas for Paris, in 1823, compelled 
Le Royer to occujty himself almost exclusively witb pharmacy, and I know not 
that be has published anything since 1824, Nevertheless, he preserved a taste 
for study, and always encouraged the scientific labors of tbose wbo approached 
him. Like Etienne Melly, with whom he had more tban one trait of conformity, 
an extreme modesty pushed almost to timidity, joined to delicate health, pre- 
vented Le Royer from making that mai'k in science to which bo might have 
pretended: The following is a list of the articles which be published jointly 
with Dr. Prevost : 

1. Koteon tbe free acid contained in the stomach of the herbivore, (Memoirs 
of the Socie/ij of Phijsics and Natural lllstorij, vol. Ill, 2d jtart.) 

2. A memoir on digestion in the rumiuants, f Bidliot/icquc U/iiverscllc Jbr 
1824. vol. XX VII J 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY. OF GENEVA. 203 

3. Observations on tlic contents of the digestive canal in tlie foetus of the 
vertebrates, ( Bihliutltcque Uniccrsclle, vol. XXIX. J 

Lastly, he published alone in the Bibliot/icque Univcrsclle, vol. XXVI, a 
memoir on the active principle contained in the "purple digitalis." 

Having become a valetudinarian in 1850, in consequence of rheumatic affec- 
tions, Le Royer was struck, in 18G0, with cerebral apoplexy, which kept him 
riveted to his chair till the moment of his death, a few weeks siuce, without any 
notable abatement of his intellectual faculties. 



APPENDIX ON THE TKICHINIASIS. 

We annex the following additional information in respect to Trichiniasis, 
mentioned in the preceding article : 

A few months ago there was a festive celebration in Hettstadt, a small coun- 
try town near the Hartz Mountains, in Germany. Upwards of a hundred per- 
sons set down to an excellent dinner, and having enjoyed themselves more 
majorvin, separated, and went to their homes. 

Of these one hundred and tln-ee persons, mostly men in the prime of life, 
eighty-three are now in their graves ; the majorit}'^ of the twenty survivors lin- 
ger with a fearful malady ; and a few only walk apparently unscathed among 
the living, but in hourly fear of an outbreak of the disease which has carried 
away such numbers of their fellow-diners. 

I'hey had all eaten of a poison at that festive board, the virulence of which 
far surpasses the reported effects of aqua toj^luma, or of the more tangible 
agents described in toxicological text-books. It was not a poison dug out of 
the earth, extracted from plants, or prepared in the laboratory of the chemist. 
It was not a poison administered by design or negligence. But it was a poison 
unknown to all concerned ; and was eaten with the meat in which it was con- 
tained, and of which it formed a living constituent. 

When the festival at Hettstadt had been finally determined upon, and the 
dinner had been ordered at the hotel, the keeper of the tavern arranged his bill 
of fare. The introduction of the third course, it was settled, should consist, as 
usual in those parts of the country, of Rosfeicur.'it tind Gemma. The Roste- 
wurst was, therefore, ordered at the butcher's the necessary number of days 
beforehand, in order to allow of its being properly smoked. The butcher, ou 
his part, went expressly to a neighboring ])roprietor, and bought one of two 
pigs from the steward, Avho had been commissioned with the transaction by his 
master. It appears, howev(!r, that the steward, unfortunately, sold the pig 
which the master had not intended to sell, as he did not deem it sufficiently iat 
or well-conditioned. Tlius the wrpng pig was sold, carried on a barrow to the 
butcher, killed and worked up into sausages. The sausages were duly smoked 
and delivered at the hotel. There they were fried and served to the guests at 
the dinner table. 

On the day after the festival, several persons who had participated in the 
dinner were attacked with irritation of the intestines, loss of appetite, great 
prostration and fever. The number of persons attacked rapidly increased ; and 
great alarm was excited in the first instance by the appreliension of an impend- 
ing epidemic of typhus fever or continued fever, with which the symptoms ob- 
served showed great similarity. But when, in some of the cases treated by the 
same physician, the features of the illness began to indicate at first, acute peri- 
tonitis, then pneumonia of a circumscribed character, next paralysis of the inter- 
costal muscles and the muscles in front of the neck, the hypothesis of septic 
fever, though sustained in other cases, had to be abandoned with respect to these 
particular cases. Some unknown poison was now assumed to be at the bottom 



204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

of the outbreak ; and an active inquiry into all the circum:^tances of the dinner 
was instituted. Every article of food and material was subjected to a most 
ri"-id examination, without any result in the first instance. But A\lien the symp- 
tor.8 in some of the cases invaded the muscles of tliele<^, particularly the calves 
of some of the sufi'erers, the description which Zenker had given of a fatal case 
of trichinous disease was remembered. The remnants of sausage, and of pork 
employed in its manufactui-e, were examined with the microscope, and found 
to be literally swarming with encapsuled trichinae. From the sufieriiig muscles 
of several of the victims small pieces were excised, and under the microscope 
found charged with endjryonic tiichinSe in all stages of development. It could 
not be diuibted any longer, that as many of the one hundred and three as had 
had ])artaken of lluslcivurst had been infested with trichinous disease by eating 
of trichinous pork, the parasites of which had, at I(;ast in part, escaped the 
efl'ects of smoking and frying. 

'JMiis awful catastrojflK; awakened sympathy and fear throughout the whole 
of Germany. Most of the leading physicians were considted in the interest of 
the suflerers, and some visited the neighborhood where most of the afflicted 
patii'Uts remained. But none could bring relief or cure. AVith an obstinacy 
unsurpassed by any other infectious or parasitic disease, trichiniasis carried its 
victims to the grave. Many anthelmintics were arrayed to destroy, if not the 
worms already in the flesh, at least those yet remaining in the intestinal canaJ. 
Picric acid was employed until its use seemed as dangerous as the disease; 
benzole, which had promised well in experiments upon animals, was tried, but 
was unavailing. As patient after patient died off, and the dissection of each 
proved the parasites to have been quite unaffected by the agents employed, the 
conviction was impressed upon every mind that a man afflicted Avith llesh-worm 
is doomed to die the slow death of exhaustion from nervous irritation, fever, and 
loss of muscular power in parts of the system essential to existence. 

But medical science had only just unravelled a mystery; and if it could not 
eave the victims, it was determined at least to turn the occasion to the next 
best account. The cases were therefore observed with care and chronicled 
with skill. All the multifarious features of the parasitic disease were registered 
in such a manner that there can hereafter be no difficulty in the diagnosis of 
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely, 
the ap])earance of the ilesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the 
lower side of the tongue. The natural history of trichina in man was fouud to 
be the same as that in animals. 

All observations led to the conviction that the trichina encapsuled in the 
flesh is in the condition of puberty. Brought into the stomach, the calcareous 
capsule is digested with the flesh, and the trichina is set free. It probably 
feeds upon the walls of the intestines themselves, for the irritation of the intes- 
tines b( gins before the bringing forth oi 'young trichina} has taken place. 
Copulation is immediately effected; and within a few hours, or a short portion 
of days, from sixty to eighty live embryos leave the female, and begin theii 
own career of destruction. 

This consists, in the first instance, in an attempt to pierce the walls of the 
intestinal canal. Great inflammation of the entire surface ensues, ending not 
rarely in death of the villous or mucous membrane, or in the formation of masses 
of pus on its surface. Sometimes there are bloody stools. But these severe 
symptoms only ensue when much trichinous meat has been eaten ; when less 
has been consumed, pain and uneasiness in the abdomen arc produced, accom- 
panied, however, in all instances by wasting fever and prostration. The 
embryos actually pierce- the intestines, and are found free in the eff"usion. 
sometimes serous, sometimes purulent, which is ahvays poured out into the 
abdominal cavity. Thence they again proceed towards ,the periphery of the 
body, pierce the peritoneum, causing great irritation, and sometimes peritonitis, 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 205 

to tlic extent of gluing the intestines together to a coherent mass. They next 
proceed to the muscles nearest to the abdomen ; arrived at the elementary 
muscular fibres, which, under the microscope, appear as long cylinders with 
many transverse striae, they pierce the membranes, enter the fibres, cat and 
destroy their striated contents, consume a great part of the granular detritiis, 
moving up and down in the fibres until grown to the size necessary for passing 
into the (juiescent state. They then roll up in spiral or other irregular windings, 
the bags of the muscular fibres collapse, and only where the trichinae lie a cal- 
careous matter is deposited, perhaps by the trichin;i3 themselves, which hardens 
into perfect capsules round the parasites. A muscular fibre may harbor one or 
several parasites ; but every fibre invaded by a single parasite loses its character 
entirely, and becomes a bag of detritus from one end to the other. 

If it b(^ remembered that one ounce of meat filled with trichina; may form the 
Btock from which in a i'cw days three millions of worms may be bred, and that 
these worms will destroy in the course of a few weeks not less than two millions 
of striated muscular fibres, an idea of the extent of destruction produced by 
these ]iarasites can be formed. We arc not in a position to say to what propor- 
tion of the fifty or sixty pounds of muscle required for the performances of the 
human body these two millions of elementary fibres actually amount. In the 
muscles nearest to the abdomen the destruction is sometimes so complete that 
not a fibre free from parasites can be found. This amounts to comj)lete 
paralysis. But death is not always produced by the paralysis; it is mos:ly 
the result of paralysis, peritonitis, and irritative fever combined. No case is 
known in which trichiniasis, after having d(;clared itself, became arrested. All 
persons afi'ected have either died, or are in such a state of prostration that their 
death is very ]»robable. 

M(»st educated peo])le in Germany have, in consequence of the Ilettstadt 
tragedy, adopted the law of Closes, and avoid pork in any form. To some of 
the large |)ig-breeders in Westphalia, who keep as many as two thousand pigs, 
the falling of the price of pork has been a ruinous^at the least a serious — loss. 
In the diuing-rooius of the hotels in the neiirhborhood of Hettstiidt notices are 
hung up announcing that pork will not be served in any form in these estab- 
lishments. To counteract this panic, the farmers' club of the Ilettstadt district 
gave a dinner, at which no other meat but pork was eaten. But it has had no 
appreciable effect. U'he raw ham and sausages of Germany are doomed to 
extinction ; the smoked and fried sausages must necessai'ily be avoided. * * 
In the south of Germany some people now say that it is the Hungarian pigs 
which arc most frequently affected with trichina;. This rumor, like the famous 
pork dinner of the farmers' club, may, however, have been setup with the inten- 
tion of quieting apprehension about tlie native pigs. We have already mentioned 
the accident which befell the crew of a merchant vessel. They shipped a pig 
at Valparaiso, and killed it a few days before their arrival at Hamburg. Most 
of the sailors ate of the pork in one form or another. Several were affected 
with trichina; and died. Of those whose fate could be inquired into, only one 
seems to have escaped the parasites. Another outbreak in Saxony has carried 
away twelve persons. A fourth wholesale poisoning by trichina; is just repoited 
from OiYenbach, the Birmingham of Hesse-Darmstadt. Of njtwards of twenty 
jiersons infected, three h.ul already died when our corrcs[)<)ndent's letter left. 
Numerous sporadic cases of fever, and epidemics of inscrutable peculiarity, but 
referred to an anomalous type of fever, are now claimed by medical authors, 
and with much show of reason, to' have been outbreaks of trichiniasis, or fiesh- 
worm disease. Several German physicians experimentalized with a view of 
finding a cure for this terrible disorder. Professor Eckhardt at Giessen, we 
are told, has obtained permission to try the disease and sup})osed remedies 
upon a murderer under sentence of death. We have not been told whether his 
reward in case of success is to "be a commutation of his capital sentence, but 



20G SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

should hope tliis to he the case. The experiment, even if it shoukl not have 
the romantic character indicated, Avill probably teach some curious details of the 
life of these parasites. Almost everywhere the commonest rules of cleanliness 
are disregarded in the rearing of pigs. Yet pigs are naturally clean animals, 
avoiding" like dogs and cats, all contact with ordure. Though they burrow in 
the earth, and in summer wallow in the mud, they abhor the heaps of excre- 
ments mixed with straw in and upon which they are frequently kept. A due 
regard to cleanliness will prevent trichime in the pig. In wild boars, of which 
many are eaten in the country round the Hartz mountains, trichina has never 
been found. Neither has it been rnet with in sheep, oxen, or horses. Beef is 
the satcst of all descriptions of meat, as no parasites have ever been discovered 
in it. They have also never been found in the blood, brain, or heart of those 
animals in whose striated muscles they love to reside. — British Medical Journal. 
[Lately, the common ground-worm has been found to be infested by trichinaj, 
one of the probable sources of the infection of swine.] 

The interest excited by this case has induced a more careful investigation 
into the consequences resulting from the imprudent use of hog's flesh, and fatal 
cases have been recently reported in this country. It had, indeed, been long 
known among men of science that the trichina Avas occasionally found incysted 
in the muscles of man in the United States as well as in other countries, but no 
case of death resulting from the presence of the worms is known to have been 
observed till recently. In February, 1864, "an instance of the poisoning of 
a whole family and the death of one member caused by eating ham" infested 
with the trichina was observed by Dr. Schnetter in the city of New York.* 
Dr. L. Krombein has since recorded some cases of a fatal nature noticed by 
him in the western part of the State. Having been summoned to attend a man 
and his wife resident in the village of Chccktonaga, he found them afflicted 
apparently with '• acute muscular rheumatism of a somewhat peculiar charac- 
ter," and was sustained in his opinion by the concurrent belief of an associate, 
Dr. Dingier. He subsequently surmised that the symptoms might indicate 
trichiniasis ; and the patients having soon afterwards died, a microscopical 
examination by Dr. Krombein, assisted by Dr. Homberger, demonstrated the 
presence of " trichina3 both in the incysted and free state." " The specimen 
of human muscle taken from one of these cases after death, and also the sau- 
sages eaten of, wei'e examined by Dr. J. 11. Lothrop and Professor George 
Iladley under the microscope, and the trichina found in both in gi-eat numbei"^. 
In the muscle the parasite was free, in the sausage incysted." t Other members 
of the family, attacked by the same parasite, were only less unhappy in escaping 
a fatal end. 

[The foregoing accounts, though they indicate an alarming cause of disease, 
point out a ready means by which the evil may be averted, particularly in the 
great pork marts of this country, namely, inspection by the microscope. It 
will probably be found that the disease is exceedingly rare, but the assur- 
ance which the inspection would give of this fact would be of sufficient import- 
ance to warrant its adoption. — J. H.] 

* American Medical Times, Fehniary 20, 1864. 

t Uuliulo Medical aud Suigical Jom-nul, June, 1864. 



EXPERIMENTAL AND THEOEETICAL RESEARCHES 

ON 

THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

WITBDKAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY, &c. 



BY J. PLATEAU, PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF GHENT, ETC 



From the Memoirs of the Eoyal Academy of Brussels. 



INTRODUCTIOiN BY THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[The interesting investigations of wliicli we commence in tliis article to give 
an account consist of* a series of parts originally published in the Transactions 
of the Brussels Academy. A translation of the hrst three parts was published 
in Taylor's Scientilic Memoirs ; the remainder has been translated for this 
Institution, and the whole will be published in this and the next volume of the 
Smithsonian Annual Reports. The author has devised an ingenious method 
by which a. liquid may be withdrawn, as it were, from the influence of gravity, 
and left free to assume the figure or external form which is produced by the 
interaction of its own molecules. The experiments described in the first and 
second parts of the series have excited much interest, and have frequently been 
presented in popular lectures as precise illustrations of the mode of formation 
of Saturn's ring, and almost conclusive proofs of the truth of the hypothesis 
of La Place as to the genesis of the solar system. 

It should, however, be observed that the force in operation in the phenomena 
of the heavenly bodies and that in the experiments of our author are very dif- 
ferent, and can only give rise to accidental similarities, and not to identical 
results. Gravity, which is operative in the first case, is the most feeble of all 
known attractions, while its sphere of action is indefinitely great. On the 
other hand, molecular attraction, v.diich is operative in the second case, is 
exceedingly energetic, while its sphere of action only extends to the nearest 
contiguous particles, and becomes imperceptible at sensible distances. The 
great power exhibited by the earth on heavy bodies, near its surface, arises 
from the combined effect of an immense number of attracting atoms. We know 
that the attraction of the Avhole earth gives to a body near its surface a velocity 
of 32 feet in a second, and by comparing the masses and distances from the 
centre of the earth, and a globe of the same density and a foot in diameter, we 
can easily calculate the velocity the latter would give a small body near its surface. 
The velocity thus determined is less than that of an inch in a year. From 
this result we may infer that small liquid masses, possessed of a slight degree 
of vicidity, would never assume the form of a globule under the mere force of 
gravitation. On the other hand, the great power of molecular attraction is 
shown by the energy with which water is drawn into wood and other porous 
substances. 



!?08 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

But llic difference of the two forces is still more strikingly exhibited by the 
differcnci; of ilieir t^plieres of attraction. Irt the case of gravitation every atom, 
for eXiinipUs of the earth attracts every other atom of the whole mass, eacff* 
conspiring with all the others to produce the; spherical form. While under the 
influence of molecular attraction the atoms of a li([uid globule only acts upon 
the other atoms which are immediately around them; and hence the atoms in 
the interior of a globule are, as it were, in a neutral condition, attracted e(|U.illy 
in everv direction. The only atoms, therefore, which arc active in j)roduciiig 
the globular forms and in giving rise to the phenomena described in this 
memoir, are those at the suifice of the liquid, since these are only attracted on 
one side, and are, therefore, free to exert their eneig}' towards the mass, and 
their tendency to bring this into the smallest compass, namely, that of a sphere. 
According to this view a globuh; of water may be considered an assemblage of 
atoms, without attraction, compressed into the; spherical form by a contractile 
film, within which the atoms are enclosed. The amount of contractile force 
of such a lilm will depend on the energy of the attraction between the con- 
tiguous atoms and the degrees of cnrvarurc. To illustrate tliis, let us suj)pose 
a slip of lndia-rubb(;r to b(; stretched horizontally between two supports. If to 
the middle of this we attach a small weight, the slip will sag downwards, and 
the point to which the weight is attached will descend until there is an equi- 
librium between the weight and the contractile force. If an additional weight 
be attached, tli(^ descent will be increased until a new equilibrium is attained, 
and so on, the contractile i'orce will increase with the d(>gree of bending. A 
pimilar force is exerteil at the free surface of all li(iuids. If this surface is hori- 
zontal, the attraction will be equal in ever}' direction in the horizontal plane; 
but if at any point w(! press the surface so as to bei;d it out of this j)lane, the 
contractile ibrce will be called forth, tending to bring the ])oint back into its 
former position. It is this surfaces contractile force which causes a small globule 
of water or mercury, when ilattened, to spring back into the spherical form 
when the compressing force is removed. The more the globule is compressed, 
or the greater the curvature at the circumference, the greater will be the resist- 
ance. Hence, also, the smaller the bubble the greater will be the contractile 
power of its surfaces, and the more energetically will it assume the spherical 
form. This is converse of the action of gravity, the tendency of which to 
produce the globular form will be the greater in proportion to the greater size, 
and consequently less curvature of the surface. 

These remarks will enable the reader to comprehend more definitely the 
nature of the phenomena exhibited in the following paper. 

J. ll.l 



FIRST SERIES. 

1. Liquids, being gifted with an extreme molecular mobility, yield with 
facility to the action offerees which tend to modify their exterior form. Bat 
amongst these forces there is one which predominates so much over the. rest 
that it almost entirely masks their action. This ibrce is gravity; this it is 
which cjaises licjuids to asj-ume the form of vessels which contain tliem ; and it 
is this, also, which makes smooth and horizontal the portion of their surface 
which remains free. We can scarcely recognize, along the c(uitour of this free 
suriaee, a slight curve which reveals the action of the combimd forces of the 
attraction of the liquid for itself, and of its adherence for the solid matter of the 
vessel. Jt is only by observing very small lifjuid masses, upon which the rela- 
tive action of gravity is thus weakened, tiial we can see the iniluence of otli(;r 
forces upon the iigiire of these masses manifested in a very forcible manner. 
Thus the small drops of liquid, placed u\Hm surfaces which they caiuiot moisten, 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 209 

assume a splicrical form more or less perfect. Leaving these minute quantities, 
if we wish to observe liquid masses which have freely taken a certain form, we 
must quit the earth, or rather consider the terrestrial globe itself and the other 
planets as having been primitively fluid, and having ackpted their exterior form 
to the combined action of gravitation and centrifugal force. Theory then indi- 
cates that these masses ought to take the form of spheroids more or less flattened 
in the direction of their axis of rotation, and observation confirms these deduc- 
tions of theory. Observation shows us, also, around Saturn, a body of annular 
form, and theory finds, in the combined actions of gravity and centrifugal force, 
means of satisfying the equilibrium of that singular form. 

If, however, Ave could, by some means, withdraw from the action of gravity 
orfe of the liquid masses upon which we have to operate, at the same time 
leaving it free to be acted upon by other forces which -might tend to modify its 
form, and if our process allowed of giving to this mass sufficiently large dimen- 
sions, would it not be very curious to see it take a determinate figure, and to 
see this figure vary in a thousand ways with the forces on which it depends? 
Now I have succeeded, by an extremely simple means, in submitting to the 
above conditions a considerable liquid mass. 

2. Fat oils are, it is known, less dense than water, and more dense than alco- 
hol. Accordingly, w^e may make a mixture of water and alcohol having a den- 
sity precisely equal to that of a given oil — of olive oil, for example. Now, if 
any quantity of olive oil is introduced into the mixture thus formed, it is evident 
that the action of gravity upon this mass of oil will be completely annihilated ; for, 
in virtue of the equality of density, the oil will only hold the place of an equal 
mass of the ambient liquid. On the other hand, the fat oils do not mix with a 
liquor composed of alcohol and water. The mass of oil must therefore remain sus- 
pended and isolated in the midst of the surrounding liquid, and it will be per- 
fectly free to take the exterior form which the forces that may act upon it will 
give to it. 

This being supposed, if the molecular attractions of the oil for itself, those of 
the alcoholic mixture for itself, and those of this mixture for the oil were identi- 
cal, there would be no reason that the mass of oil left in the midst of the ambient 
liquid should take spontaneously oue form more than another, since, relatively, 
to all the forces acting upon it, it Avould be exactly in the same position as an 
equal mass of alcoholic mixture whose place it would occupy. But it is evident 
that this identity between the difierent attractive forces does not exist, and that 
the attraction of the oil for itself greatly exceeds the two others. The mass of 
oil, therefore, ought to obey this excess of its own attractive forces. 

We thus come to this conclusion, that our mass of oil may be perfectly as- 
similated to a liquid mass without weight, suspended freely in space, and sub- 
mitted to its own proper molecular attractions. Now, it is clear that such a 
mass must take the spherical form. 

Well, exj^eriment confirms all this in a complete manner. The mass of oil, 
■whatever its volume, remains, in fact, suspended in the midst of the alcoholic 
liquid, and takes the form of a perfect sphere. 

3. In order to obtain this singular result with facility, it is necessary to take 
certain precautions, wdiich I Avill describe. 

The first concern the formation of the alcoholic mixture. The density of this 
mixture necessarily varies with the kind of oil Avhich is itsed. For the olive oil 
which I employed, and for the purity of which I cannot vouch, the proper mixture 
marked twenty-two degrees on the areometer of Beaumo. If, therefore, auy one 
wishes to use olive oil, he may always consider the above vlilue as n first approx- 
imation, and, by successive attempts, will bring the liquor at length to the exact 
point which it ought to reach. To accomplish this, a test tube is filji'd with 
the liquor, into which a little oil is afterwards poured by means of a long-necked> 
funnel, which reaches about half way down the test tube. The oil, on reaching 
14 s 



210 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

the liquor, forms a globule, to wliicli a diameter of about two centimetres* must 
be given, and which a little shake will detach from the mouth of the funnel if 
it does not detach itself. Then, accordingly as this globule falls to the bottom 
of till- liquor or rises to its surface, wc conclude that the quantity of alcohol of 
the mixture is too great or too small ; we therefore add to this a little water or 
alcuhol, taking care to stir it well, and recommence the experiment of the test 
tube, 'i'he same operations are repeated until the globule of oil remains sus- 
penii'd in the liquor, without appearing to have a tendency either to fall or rise. 
The mixture may then be considered as approaching very nearly the desired 
point. 1 say very nearly, for the globule of oil of the test tube, being of small 
dimensions, has more dilHculty in moving in the liquor than spheres of a large 
diameter, and it may seem to be in equilibrium of density with the surrounding 
liquid, whilst for a larger volume of oil this equilibrium does not exist. 

4. Wht-n the alcoholfc mixture, which I presuppose to be contained in a 
lar"-e glass llask of the ordinary form, has attained this point of approximation, 
the next thing is to introduce the mass of oil. For this purpose the long-necked 
funnel which has been mentioned above must be again used, and this must 
reach to a certain depth in the liqiior contained in the flask. Letting the funnel 
rest on the neck of the latter, we pour the oil slowly. Then, if the alc.oholic 
mixture is by chance exactly in the requisite proportions, the oil forms, at the 
extremity of the neck of the funnel, a sphere, the volume of which increases 
gradually in proportion as we add this last liquid. When the sphere has at- 
tained the volume we desire, the neck of the funnel is withdrawn with caution; 
the sphere which adheres to it rises with it toward the surface of the liquor, 
and the oil which it still contains is added to the preceding. Lastly, when the 
sphere has nearly reached the surface of the alcoholic mixture, a little shake 
detaches it fiom the funnel. Ordinarily, however, the mixture has not so exactly 
the desired density. We then see, in general, several successive spheres of oil 
formed, which, detaching themselves one after another from the mouth of the 
funnel, fall slowly to the bottom of the flask, or rise to the surface of the alco- 
liolic liquor. Li this case all these spheres should, in the first place, be united 
into one, Avhich is easily done by the following means. We introduce into one, 
of them the end of an iron wire. The adherence which the oil contracts with 
'this metal then allows the sphere in question to be easily conducted in the am- 
bient liquid, and to be led to join with a second sphere, t By continuing this 
treatment, we soon succeed in uniting all. Then, according as the whole sphere 
shall remain at the bottom or on the surface of the liquor, add cautiously to the 
latter a certain quantity of water or of alcohol ; and, after having corked the 
flask, we next turn it several times slowly, and so as not to disunite the sphere 
of oil, until the mixture is well effected, Avhich will take place when we no 
longer perceive any striae in the liquor on looking through it at a window. 
Lastly, the same operation is to be repeated until the sphere of oil is perfectly 
in equilibrium in the surrounding liquor. 

5. If the experiment has been made, as I have supposed, in a flask of the 
ordinary form, that is to say cylindrical, the mass of oil does not, however, ap- 
pear exactly spherical; it is widened in the horizontal direction. But this is 
only an optical illusion, attributable to the form of the flask. The latter, with 
the liquor whieh it contains, acts in the manner of a cylindrical lens whose axis 

* S(^ table of measures at the end of this vohime. 

t III order tlms to compel two sphcros to unite, it does not snfiBce to put them in contact 
with one another. They niig^ht touch for a lonfj time without mingling into one; one would 
say that they are enveloped in a resistinfj pellicule which opposes their union. It is also 
necessary, tlierelbre, to introduce the extremity of the metallic wire into the second sphere, as 
if we wished to break the partition which separates the two masses. The union is then cflocted 
immediately. I'shall revert to these phenomena hereafter. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 211 

would be vertical, and enlarges in appearance tlie horizontal dimensions of the 
object. * 

In order entirely to avoid this illusion, we must use a vessel of plane smooth 
sides, formed of plates of glass set in a metal frame, (§ 8.) We then have, in a 
complete manner, the curious spectacle of a considerable mass of liquid present- 
ino- the. form of a perfect sphere, and imitating, in some measure, a planet sus- 
pended in space. 

Instead, also, of the above vessel, a glass balloon may be used, which is more 
imple and less expensive. In this case, indeed, the mass of oil only appears 
in its real figure when it occupies the centre of the balloon ; but the apparent 
distortion is small, as long as the sphere is not moved considerably from this 
centre. A vessel of this kind is very convenient for most of the experiments 
which I shall describe in this part of the memoir ; but it would not serve for 
those which I shall have to make known subsequently". 

6. Now, having obtained, by means of the process above detailed, a fine 
sphere of oil well suspended, and presenting, I will suppose, a diameter of six 
to seven centimetres, we shall observe the following circumstances, which it is 
important to notice before we proceed further : 

In the first place, the equilibrium, previously well established, is soon dis- 
turbed of itself. At the end of a few minutes we see the sphere quit its place, 
and rise with extreme slowness towards the upper part of the ambient liquid. 
If a little alcohol be then added to restore the equilibrium, on treating the mix- 
ture by the process of § 4, this equilibrium is again broken in the same manner 
at the end of a certain time. In fine, it is only by continuing for some days to 
maintain it by the successive addition of small quantities of alcohol that we 
come to obtain a permanent equilibrium, wlii(?h is then no further disturbed, 
except by an accidental cause, of which we shall speak in the following para- 
graph. If the temperature does not foil below 18° centigr., the above phenomena 
are the only ones observed ; but sometimes, if the temperature remains below 
that limit, and always, if it is below 15°, another effect is manifested, namely, a 
diminution in the transparency of the oil. 

These phenomena are owing to a gradual chemical action which takes 
place between the oil and the alcoholic mixture. The first of these would be 
very inconvenient in most of the experiments ; but, happily, it may be obvi- 
ated. This can evidently be effected by employing the two liquids only when 
they have already exerted upon one another all the action of which they are 
capable. The oil and the alcoholic mixture which I used are now inert with 
regard to one another, because, having been employed a great number of times, 
they have had time to exercise the whole of their mutual action. Besides, it is 
easy, in a short time, to bring the two liquids to that state of relative neu- 
trality, by agitating them together in order to divide the oil, and thus to 
accelerate the action, then separating them by a suitable process. This opera- 
tion requires some precautious, which we shall examine in § 24, in order not to 
interrupt the course of the memoir by details which are not now indispensable. 
In all that follows we shall always suppose that two liquids thus prepared are 
employed. 

7. Another cause disturbs the equilibrium between the sphere of oil and the 
ambient liquid. This is the variations of temperature, which alter the equality 
of the two densities ; and the degree of sensibility of such a system in this re- 
spect would hardly be conceived. For example, when the vessel is carried 
into a room a little warmer or colder than that in which it had been before, the 
' sphere soon falls in the first case and rises in the second. On the mere appli- 
* cation of the hands to the outside of the vessel, it will be seen, after a few sec- 
onds, that the sphere begins to fall. 

We must be continually on our guard against these effects of temperature ; 
otherwise, they disturb the experiments. The following is a recent instance 



212 TUB FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

which occurred to me. The oil ainl the alcoliolic liquor were enclosed in dif- 
ferent flasks, and the latter contained a very slight excess of alcohol. Uaving, 
by chance, carried these two flasks into a room warmer than that in which they 
had been, I iirst introduced into the mixture a certain quantity of oil, which, by 
reason of the slight excess of alcohol, descended slowly to the bottom of the 
flask. A short time afterwards I poured in another quantity of oil, and I was 
Burprised to sec this, on the contrary, rise towards the upper part of ihc mix- 
ture. The reason of the singular difference was this : the alcoholic mixture 
inclosed in one of the flasks was very considerable in quantity relatively to the 
oil which the otlier contained. Now, at the first moment the liquids, not 
having sensibly changed their temperature, maintained betAveen them the same 
relation of density ; but after a short time the oil, by reason of its small volume, 
having become warmer than the alcoholic mixture, had thus become relatively 
lighter. The warmth of the hand which held the flask in pouring out the oil 
must have also contributed to the effect in question. 

8. Now let us suppose a fine sphere of oil in permanent equilibrium in the 
surrounding liquid, and let us endeavor to submit it to other forces than its 
own attracti(m.s. 

The first idea which presents itself is to try the action of centrifugal force. 
For this purpose it is necessary to impress on the sphere of oil a mnvement of 
rotation around one of its diameters, and which is effected by introducing into 
this sphere a small metallic disc, which is made to turn upon itself by means 
of an axis which traverses it perpendicularly. This disc carries the oil with it 
by its adherence, and the whole mass of this liquid takes a movement of rotation. 

Before explaining the effects which result from this movement, I shall describe 
in detail the apparatus I have employed — an apparatus by the aid of which all 
the experiments succeeded perfectly and with the greatest facility. It is rep- 
resented in fig. 1. 

Fig. 1. 




The vessel is with plane sides, formed of rectangular plates of glass set in 
an iron frame ; the sides are each 25 centimetres br^ad and 20 high. The 
small disc and its axis are also of iron, a metal whose prolonged contact with 
oil does not stain it as copper does. The diameter of the disc is about 35 milli- 
metres, and the axis is formed of an iron AVire about H millimetre thick. 'Jliis 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



113 



Axis is fixed by its lower end into a hole pierced in the middle of the plate of 
glass which forms the bottom of the vessel. This hole is closed below by a 
small plate of iron cemented to the ,2:lass. The upper end of the axis is screwed 
to a larger wire, which forms the prolongation of it, and which, held yn\\i a 
moderate degree of friction, \a frottevient donx,] in apiece of which I shall speak 
hereafter, receives at its other extremity the handle by means of Avhich the disc 
is turned. When the whole system is in place the disc ought to be half way 
up the vessel. The square plate of glass which closes the vessel above is 
pieced with two openings, each furnished with an iron neck, which is closed 
with a stopper of the same metal. One of these openings is in the middle of 
the plate, and its diameter is 55 millimetres. It is through the stopper which 
closes it that the rod passes, a frottement dcmx, which receives on the ofle side 
the axis of the disc, and on the other the handle. (See figure 2.) The other 

F\s. 2. 




opening is smaller, and is placed near one of the angles of the plate. It serves 
for introducing into the vessel either the metallic wire, by the aid of which we 
unite the partial masses of oil, or additional portions of alcohol, or of mixture at 
another degree, (§ 9,) &c., when these operations are to be performed without 
removing the disc from its place. Lastly, this same plate is cemented into an 
iron frame, which is turned up all round, so as to fit upon a vessel as a lid upon 
a box. The upper edges of the vessel have been ground with emery all to- 
gether, after their being placed in the frame, so that the upper plate of glass fits 
exactly upon them ; and by rubbing these edges and the metallic stoppers with 
a little oil, the vessel, when the plate and stoppers have been placed, may be 
considered as perfectly closed and keeping the mixture without evaporation of 
alcohol. 

In my apparatus the plates of glass are fixed to the metallic framing by a 
resinous cement, and this is slightly attacked by the alcoholic mixture. It 
would perhaps be better to use some glazier's putty ; for the alcoholic mixture, 
being prepared so as not to act any more upon the oO, (§§ 6 and 24,) this latter 
cement would probably not suffer any alteration. However, the resinous mastic 
resists to such a degree, that I have been able to leave the alcoholic liquor, 
without inconvenience, in the vessel for whole months. 

The apparatus which I have just described is the best suited for obtaining, 
in all their beauty, the phenomena, which are the objects of these experiments; 
b\it, as I have said above, a hollow sphere of glass of pretty large dimensions 
might be used with less cost, and without too much disadvantage, at least for 
the experiments treated of in this part of the memoir. This ought to be fur- 
nished with two tubular openings, one of which would serve for introducing the 
system of the disc, and the other would efi'ect the same object as the second 
opening of which we have spoken above. 

I shall, however, in what follows, suppose all along that the plane-sided ves- 
sel above described is the one employed. 



214 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBKIUM OF A LIQUID MASS ^ 

9. The apparatus being properly arranged, the next thing is to operate so as 
to cause a sphere of oil to surround the disc in such manner that their two 
centres are seiisiblj coincident. To attain this point, let us first endeavor, be- 
fore introducing the disc into the vessel, to bring the centre of the sphere to 
remain at the height at which that of the disc should be. It would be extremely 
diilicult to accomplish this by suspending a sphere in a homogeneous alcoholic 
mixture, as we have hitherto supposed; for then there is no reason why the 
sphere should not stand higher or lower ; and, if even by chance it were placed 
exactly at the desired height, the movements which would be produced on in- 
troducing the disc would very probably change this height. It is, therefore, 
necessary to employ a more sure process, and the following succeeded perfectly. 
We bt"^in by causing the alcoholic mixture to contain a small excess of alcohol. 
Then, the vessel being furnished Avith its Hd, and the stopper which closes the 
central opening being lifted up, the mixture is introduced by this opening in 
such quantity that the vessel bo not completely filled. A certain quantity of 
a mixture, less charged Avith alcohol, and marking only 16° on the areometer 
of Beaume, is then cautiously added. This, from its excess of density, falls to 
the bottom of the vessel, Avhere it spreads itself in a horizontal layer. The oil 
is then introduced, which, by reason of the small excess of alcohol contained in 
the upper mixture, descends through the latter till it rests upon the denser layer 
of tlu; lower mixture, either in a single mass or in several partial masses (§ 4.) 
This bein'i" so, we unite, if the case i-equires it, the isolated spheres into a sin- 
gle one ; then Ave stii' the liquor cautiously Avith a glass rod, so as to mix im- 
perfectly the layer at the bottom Avith the higher layers, but Avithout dividing 
the mass of oil, and the system is then left to rest. It Avill be seen that there 
must hence result in the alcoholic liquor a state of density increasing from the 
U])per layers of less density to the loAver of greater density than that of the 
oil ; and that, in consequence, the mass of oil will necessarily remain in stable 
equilibrium Avith respect to the vertical direction, in a certain layer whose mean 
density is equal to its OAvn. Now, in performing the operation Avith the neces- 
sary precautions — that is to say by stirring the liquid only a very little, then 
leaving it to rest to observe the effect which results, again stirring it and leaving 
it to rest, and so on ; lastly adding, if necessary, a small portion of mixture at 
16°, or of pure alcohol, according to circumstances, Ave easily succeed in causing 
the mass of oil to remain exactly at the desired height, and, as we have seen, 
without tcrndency to a change of position in the vertical direction.* In geome- 
trical strictness, truly, this mass of oil cannot then be any longer perfectly 
spherical ; it must be flattened a little in the vertical direction; but, if Ave liaA'e 
operated so that the increase of the densities is very feeble at the height at 
which the oil stands — and we easily obtain that result by suitable trials — -the 
flattening in question is completely insensible to the eye, and the mass appears 
exactly spherical. 

Fur the experiments Avhich Ave have to describe, the most convenient diameter 
to give to the sphere of oil is about 6 centimetres. We easily accomplish this 
by first forming a less sphere, and adding successively fresh portions' of oil, 
Avlrich Ave unite Avith the first. 

The next thing is to place the disc. This being attached by its axis to the 
rod Avhich passes through the metallic stopper, (§ 8,) Ave begin by oiling it as 
well as the axis, then introduce it slowly into the alcoholic liquid, and cause it 
to penetrate by its edge into the sphere of oil. As the disc has previously 
been oiled, the sphere envelopes it without difficulty, and, what is remarkable, 

* Tlic3 different liquid layers thus superjiosed tend of themselves, it is tnie, to mix ; but, as 
they arc placed in the order of their densities, this spontaneous mixture proceeds only Avith 
extreme slowness, and it requires a great many days for the liquor to become homogeneous. 
No incouvenicuco thcreforo results from this for the experiments 



, WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 215 

gradually of itself assumes such a position that the axis of the disc traverses it 
diametrically. This effect is evidently owing to the attractive action of this 
axis, or rather of the coating of oil with which it has been moistened — an 
action which tends to operate in a symmetrical manner all around it, and thus 
brings the entii'e sphere of oil into a position symmetrical with respect to this 
same axis. Now it will be seen that the centre of the sphere tending, on the 
one hand, to remain at the height of that of the disc, on account of the super- 
position of the alcoholic layers of unequal density, and, on the other hand, to 
place itself in the axis of the disc, on account of the symmetry of the 
attractive actions exerted by the latter upon the oil, the centre of the sphere 
and that of the disc will coincide, and will tbus remain in a fixed position. 
Only the sphere will then be slightly elongated in the vertical direction by the 
attraction of the axis of the disc ; but this elongation is very trifling if the 
sphere present, as we have supposed, a diameter of 6 centimetres. 

10. The sphere of oil being thus suitably placed, we slowly turn the handle. 
We then presently see the s\)lierejiaftcn at its poles and swell ovt at its equator, 
and we thus realize on a small scale an effect which is admitted to have taken 
place in the planets. 

However, although the results may be of the same nature in the case of the 
great planetary masses and in that of our little masses of oil, I must not omit 
to remark here that there is an essential difference between the forces which are 
in play in the two cases. In the first, the force which tends to give to the great 
planetary mass a spherical figure, and against which the centrifugal force acts, 
is universal attraction ; in the second, the force which acts the same part with 
regard to the small mass of oil, is molecular attraction, which is subject to 
different laws. But as, on either hand, the aggregate of the actions reduces 
itself to a contest between centrifugal force and another force tending to pre- 
serve the spherical form of the liquid mass, it appears that the results must be 
analogous, if not identical, with respect to the figure which that mass assumes. 

[This, we do not think, is quite correct. The forces which produce the equi- 
librium of the ring are as follows : First. The centrifugal force which tends 
to throAV the atoms from the centre of motion. Second. The force developed 
by the external and internal horizontal curvatures, the direction of wliich is to- 
wards the centre. Third. The force developed by the external and internal 
vertical curvatures, one of which acts towards the centre, and the other from 
the centre. The roundness of the ring is caused by the combined action of the 
external and internal curvatures, which, under no circumstances of velocity of 
rotation, would produce a flattened ring — J. IL] 

In order to observe, in all its beauty, the phenomenon on which we are en- 
gaged, the handle must, at first, be turned with very little velocity — a tu/n in 
five or six seconds. The effects are even then very decided. If we after- 
wards apply a somewhat greater velocity — for example, a turn in four seconds — 
tlie flattening at the axis, and the swelling at the equator, arc seen to be more 
considerable, and they are further augmented by increasing the velocity of the 
handle to one turn in three seconds. Before proceeding further we may remark 
that, in these experiments, the handle must not be turned too long, for the masi3 
of oil which, in the first moments, presents exactly a figure of revolution, 
eventually loses this foi-m. At each fresh trial, therefore, the system must be 
left to repose. The oil then resumes its spherical form, and slowly, of itself, 
replaces itself in the proper position. The change of form which supervenes 
when too many turns are given to the disc occasions results of a particular kind, 
and which are not without interest. I shall speak of them by-and-by, (§ 22.) 

11. Now, if instead of moving the handle slowly a considerable velocity is 
given to it, as two or three turns in a second, new, and very curious, phc- 




216 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MAS3 

nomcna arc manifested. The liquid sphere first takes rapidly its maximum 
of tlattcniug, then becomes hollow above and below 
•^'o* "*■ around the axis of rotation, stretching out continually 

in a horizontal direction, and, finally abandoning the 
disc, is transformed into a j^crfccthj rarular ring. 

This ring is rounded transversely, and appears to have 
a circle for its generatrix. At the moment of its form- 
ation its diameter increases rapidly up to a certain limit; 
when this is reached the movement of the disc must be 
stopped. The ring now remains for some seconds in 
the same state. Then, the resistance of the ambient 

liquid weakening its movement of rotation, it returns upon itself and changes 

back into a sphere around the disc and its axis. 

The velocity of the handle most suitable for producing a beautiful ring, is 

about three turns per second. The ring thus obtained has a mean diameter of 

9 to 10 centimetres. 

12. "Wlu'rt, at the instant of the formation of the ring, the mass of oil which 
constitutes it separates from the disc, a singular circumstance is ob.^ervablc ; the 
ring rem;iins iniited to the disc by an extremely thin pellicle or film of oil, 
which fills all the space between them. But at the instant that, the ring having 
reached its greatest extent, wc stop the motion of the disc, this pellicle breaks 
and disappears of itself, and the ring then remains jterfectly isolated. 

It may be conceived that this pellicle is not a circumstance essential to the 
phenomenon of the formation of the ring ; and we shall see, in another part of 
these experiments, that it is probably connected with an order of facts wliolly 
diflFerent. 

13. The heavens exhibit to us also a body of a form analogous to our liquid 
ring. I allude to Snturn's ring. That, indeed, is flattened, whilst the trans- 
verse contour of ours appears altogether round ; but I do not think that this dif- 
ference is so great as it appears at first. 

In fact, the centrifugal force, which goes on increasing from the inner cir- 
cumference of the ring of oil xap to its outer circumference, necessarily tends 
to stretch this ring in the direction of its breadth, or, in other words, to flatten it. 
But the flattening must be of very small amount ; for, on account of the in- 
considerable dimensions of the ring, and the slowness of its angular movement, 
the kind of traction which results from the variation of centrifugal force must 
be very trifling in comparison with the forces developed by molecular attrac- 
tion. 

14. It appears to me, then, that we may reasonably admit that our ring of 
oil is in reality slightly flattened, and that in consequence it only dilfers from 
that of Saturn, with regard to general form, in the less quantity of flattening.* 
But further, in the system of Saturn, the flattening of the ring is in part deter- 
mined by the attraction of the central planet. Now, at the first moment of 
the formation of the ring of oil, the latter is submitted to a particular force, 
which plays a ])art analogous to that of the above attraction. In fact, this 
attraction acts with the greatest intensity .4t the inner circumference of Saturn's 
ring, and thence decreases rapidly in the rest of this body. Now, at the first 
moment of the formation of the ring of oil, avc have seen (§ 12) that the latter 
remains united to the disc by a thin film of the same liquid, and we may con- 
vince oui-selves that this film exerts, on the inner circumference of the ring. 
a considerable force of traction. In fact, if we stop the movement of the disc 
a little too soon, that is to say a little before the ring has reached its maximum 



* I leave out of tbe question here the subdivision of the ring of Satum. This subdivision, 
as is known, is not essentially connected with the conditions of equilibrium of the ring. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OP GRAVITY. 217 

of diameter, the film of oil does not break, and the ring then returns upon 
itself (§ 11) with a much greater rapidity than when the film of oil Is broken, 
and the ring remains isolated. The traction which the film of oil e:Jserts on the 
inner circumference of the ring ought therefore to produce an effect analogous 
to that of the attraction of Saturn, that is to ?ay, contribute to increase the 
flattening. "Well, the ring of oil before the rupture of the film presents a very- 
marked flattening. In order to obtain it perfectly, care must be taken that the 
sphere be well centred in relation to the disc, before beginning the experiment; 
and it is useful to turn the handle with a velocity somewhat less than that 
indicated at § 11 ; the most suitable velocity has appeared to me to be about two 
turns in a second. As soon as the film of oil breaks the flattening disappears, 
and the generatrix of the ring becomes, as we have seen, sensibly circular.* 

15. Geometricians, Avho have investigated the figiu-e of equilibrium of a liquid 
mass in rotation, have only regarded ihe case in which the attraction which 
counteracts the centrifugal force is that of universal gravitation, and they have 
demonstrated that elliptical figures in that case satisfy this equilibrium. Are 
we thence to conclude that the annular form developed by the rotation of our 
mass of oil results from the different law which governs molecular attraction, 
(§ 10,) and that, in the instance of the heavenly bodies, the figure of an iso- 
lated ring could not be produced by the sole combination of centrifugal force and 
of the mutual attractions of the different parts of the mass ? 1 am not of that 
opdliiou, and I think it, on the contrary, very probable that if calculation could 
approach the general solution of this great problem, and lead directly to the 
determhiation of all the possible figures of equilibrium, the annular figure 
would be included among them. This general and direct solution presenting 
very great difficulties, geometricians have contented themselves with trying 
whether elliptical figures could satisfy the equilibrium, and with proving that 
they in fact do satisfy it ; but they leave the question in doubt, whether other 
figures would not fulfil the same conditions. In truth, M. Liouville, in his 
last researches on this subject,! appears at first view to have nearly solved 
the question, by introducing the consideration of the stability of the figure of 
equilibrium, and showing that for each value of the moment of rotation, or, in 
other words, for any initial movement, whatever, of the mass, there is always 
an elliptical figure, either of revolution or of three unequal axes, according to 

* I bad thought that it would be possible to obtain rings isolated and greatly flattened by 
operating upon larger masses of oil, for then, the ring having a larger volume,' the inflnence 
of the molecular attraction should be less. But I have found that, in operating on largei 
masses, it was necessary, in order to obtain the ring in a regular manner, to employ a more 
feeble velocity of rotation, so that, if the influence of the molecular attraction was diminished, 
that of the centrifugal force was so equally. Tlie flattening, then, did not become more sensi- 
ble ; or, if I have sometimes imagined that I observed any, I have not been able to reproduce 
it at will. I have operated thus on spheres which were, successively, about 10, 11, 12, and 
14 U'ntimetrcs in diameter, with discs of a diameter of from seven to nine centimetres, and in 
a vessel with plane surfaces, having a bottom 35 centimetres square, and a depth of -25 centi- 
metres. The effects, however, thus obtained f-e very beautiful. The rings are magnificent; 
present a considerable diameter, and remain suiue;.;:es tor eight to ten seconds before retmn- 
iug on themselves. With a sphere of ten centimetres diameter, a disc of seven, and a velocity 
a little less than one turn of the disc per second, we obtain, in a very beautiful and very 
marked manner, the flattening resulting from the traction of the film of oil. 

These experiments, however, are inconvenient and difficult, on account of the large dimen- 
sions of the vessel, and the great quantity of alcoholic liquid necessary to till it. 

It may be conceived, moreover, why a larger mass of oil requires a less velocity of rotation 
to produce a regular ring. It is precisely because the molecular attraction has less influence; 
whence, it results that, if we attempt to employ tlie same velocity of rotation which would 
give a beautiful ring with a less quantity of oil, the mass disunites, and is scattered into 
spherules. 

t The memoir of M. Liouville was communicated to the Academy of Sciences in the sitting 
of the 13th of February in this year. An analysis of it may be found in the Journal L'/h- 
stitiU, No. 477. 



218 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

the circumstauces, which constitutes a form of stable equilibrium. It appears, 
in C'flect, uatural to admit that, for a given disturbance of a liquid mass, there is 
but one single final state admissible ; and, in this case, this state must necessa- 
rily possess stability. However, I do not deem the conclusion which may be 
drawn from these results so general as it appears at first sight. Without doubt, 
for a primitive disturbance given, there is only one final stale possible, and that 
state must be stable, lint the condition of stability of a found figure of equi- 
librium docs not necessarily involve the consequence that this figure will con 
stitute the final state in quet?tion, for it may happen that several figures of equi- 
librium, corresponding to the same primitive disturbance, might equally possess 
stability, and that the choice of the mass for one of these figures may have been 
determined by other circumstances ; for example, by the modifications which 
its movement experiences in the first moments of rotation. In fact, it is by 
examining these modifications, to which the attention of geometricians has not 
been directed, that I shall attempt to arrive at the mode of generation of annular 
figures. 

16. When the mass begins to revolve upon itself, the angular velocity of the 
portions remote from the axis, which are carried off by their centrifugal force, 
necessarily goes on diminishing. This diminution is especially apparent ou 
the equator of the mass, and it is the more considerable in proportion as the 
initial movement of rotation was more rapid. It thence results that, in the first 
instants of a sufliciently rapid rotation, there will be a great diilerenco of angular 
velocity between the portions which are near the axis and those Avhich are near 
the equator. Nevertheless, if we admit for a moment that, in virtue of the 
adherence of the liquid for itself, and of the friction of its several parts, the 
portions which turn most rapidly communicate by degrees a part of their ve- 
locity to the others, so that in the end the result is a mean angular velocity, 
corresponding to the same moment of rotation, and equal in all the points of the 
mass, this may take an ellipsoidal figure. But long before the feeble forces, of 
whicb wc have just spoken, can bring about this mean result, another order of 
phenomena would be manifested, which may impede the development of the 
elliptical figure and give rise to an annular form. 

In fact, it follows necessarily from the preceding considerations that, in the 
first instants of a rotation aufticicntly rapid, the centrifugal force at the equator 
of the mass will be much less than that which would correspond to the above 
mean velocity ; and that, on the other hand, the centrifugal force of the portions 
near the axis will be by much superior to that which would correspond to the 
same mean velocity. The liquid next the axis will, therefore, be driven towards 
the liquid of the equator, whence there will necessarily result the formation of 
a sort of circular cushion, (bourrdei,) more or less marked. In other words, 
the mass will soon become hollow in the middle, and will swell out all around. 
Now as soon as this phenomenon takes place, it will be conceived that the at- 
traction exerted by this hourrclct on the liquid remaining around the axis must 
be an addition to the action of the centrifugal force, and contribute to increase 
the volume of the hourrtlet at the expense of the central, liquid. Hence, there- 
fore, it may evidently result that all the liquid will leave the axis for the hour- 
rclct, and the latter become in a manner a veritable ring. 

This generation of the annular figures would therefore be independent of 
the law which the attraction follows, and would be, in consequence, the same 
in the case of universal attraction and in that of molecular attraction. 

17. It is easy to verify this mode of generation upon our mass of oil, or at 
least to assure ourselves that during the formation of the hourrclct and of the 
ring, the angular velocity is much less at the equator of the mass than toAvards 
the axis. For this purpose I shall first point out that Avhcn a certain number 
of experiments have been performed upon the same mass of oil, and this has 
been several times disunited and refoimed into a single sphere and into a ring. 



WITHDEAWN FROM THE ACTION OP GRAVITY. 219 

it ahvaya liolds within it a multitude of small bubbles of alcoholic liquor, wliicli 
borne along by the oil that surrounds them, render the movements of the difter- 
ent points of the mass perfectly observable. Now, if the experiments which 
we have described be repeated with the aid. of a sphere of oil thus tilled with 
alcoholic bubbles, the following results are observed. So long as we give to 
the disc such slight velocities only as are sufficient to produce a simple flatten- 
ing, there is not a great diiference of angular velocity between the portions 
next to the axis and the portions adjoining the equator ; but this ditlerence 
becomes very considerable when the disc turns more ra-pidly, and the bourrelet 
and the ring are developed. 

We may thus prove, by means of the small alcoholic bubbles, that the mean 
angular velocity is established in the ring once formed, and that all the points 
of the latter perform their revolutions in the same time. 

Furthermore, in our experiments upon the masses of oil, there are two foreign 
fofces which act, in addition to the causes which we have noticed, to facilitate 
the development of the bourrelet and of the ring. One is the resistance of the 
ambient liquid, which contributes to weaken the angular velocity of the equa- 
tor of the mass ; the other is the action of the hand which keeps up the motion 
of rotation of the disc, and consequently hinders the central portions of the 
mass from participating gradually in the slackening of the equatorial portions. 
But that which is produced by these two foreign forces would be equally pro- 
duced by a greater initial velocity of rotation if we could annul them. 

IS. When, by the aid of a moderate velocity of the disc, we limit ourselves 
to producing the flattening of the mass, the two foreign forced of which we have 
just spoken necessarily hinder the latter from attaining an angular velocity 
equal in all its points, even though we keep turning the disc. The result is, 
that the mass cannot take exactly the figure which would correspond to that 
equality of angular velocity. That which it adopts is a figure of revolution ; 
but on placing the eye at the height of the centre of the mass, it is easily recog- 
nized that it is not an ellipsoid. The curvature at the equator is too small, 
and this is the more evident in proportion as the flattening is more consider- 
able. 

Now, is this difference between the figure thus produced and that which would 
correspond to the case of universal gravitation solely the result of the action of 
the two foreign forces in question, or is it in part caused by the difference of the 
laws which the two kinds of attraction follow ? In other words, if we could 
eliminate or render insensible the difi"ereuces of angular velocity of the several 
parts of the mass of oil, would the figure produced be an ellipsoid or not? Now, 
we should render these differences of angular velocity insensible if we could 
impress a movement of rotation on a mass of oil suspended in an isolated man- 
ner, without interior system, in the alcoholic liquid, and then leave it to itself. 
In this case the resistance of the ambient liquid would be exercised, indeed, 
on the exterior of the mass ; but nothing maintaining the constancy of velocity 
of the central parts, these, by virtue of the strong self-adherence of the oil, 
would participate eventually in the slackening of the exterior portions, and we 
might consider the mass as having each Instant an angular velocity equal 
throughout. 

Now, it is very easy to realize the above by availing ourselves of the fact 
that, when the ring of oil is formed, it returns, after some time, upon itself, (§11.) 
At the instant when the ring is well developed, and when we have just stopped 
the disc, we lift the latter cautiously by means of the metallic stopper which 
bears its axis. Then the mass of oil, which is again formed by the return of 
the ring upon itself, continues still to repilve for some time, completely isolated 
the ambient liquid. Its figure is then, as well as the eye can judge of it, a 
perfect ellipsoid of revolution, which gradually approximates to a sphere in 



220 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID ' MASS 

proportion as tlic rotatory motion becomes weaker.* Thus, the difference of 
the laws wliich govern the two sorts of attraction appears not to influence the 
nature of the hgure taken by the mass that turns upon itself. 

19. A liquid mass can only assume and preserve an annular form under the 
influence of a suflicient centrifugal force. 'J'hus, as we have seen, when the 
resistance of the alcoholic liquid has diminished below a certain limit Oic velocity 
of rotation of the ring of oil, the latter, obeying the preponderating action of the 
molecular attraction, returns upon itself, loses its annular form, and reconstitutes 
itself into an entire mass, first ellipsoidal and then spherical. But if, by a 
method which I shall describe, we prevent the ring from agglomerating thus, 
and still leave the action of its centrifugal force to diminish, we then witness 
the appearance of other phenomena Avell meriting interest. In order to produce 
them perfectly, in place of the disc of 35 millimetres, a disc of about 5 centime 

* I liad expected to be able to obtain a revolving isolated mass by means of another process, 
viz : by forming a splMe of oil in the middle of a cylindrical flask so arranged as to he able 
to turn upon its axis ; then causing this flask thus to turn with rapidity, until all the liquid 
within, alcoholic mixture and mass of oil, had taken the same motion; then suddenly stop- 
ping the llask. In eiVcct, it seems that then tlio alcoholic liquor being the first to lose its 
rotatory moti'^n by the friction against the stationary sides of the flask, a moment must 
occur when the mass of oil maintains an excess of angular velocity over the ambient liquid, 
and that tlien the efilects of centrifugal force upon that mass may* manifest themselves. But 
the experiuieut gives few results. First, it is extremely difficult to keep a mass of oil in the 
middle of the flask. We keep it tolerably in the axis of the latter, because, if we liave suc- 
ceeded in placing it so that its centre is Iktle removed from that axis, the rotation of the am- 
bient liquiil brings it there, and then retains it there very well. But it is not the same in the 
direction of the height of the flask. If a homogeneous alcoholic mixture be employed, and 
the sphere of oil is placed, beibre turning the flask, a little higher or lower than. the middle of 
the height of the latter, it quits its place when the flask turns to ascend, in the first case, or 
to descend, in the second, until it comes to be dispersed against one of the two bases of the 
flask. This cflect is attributable, I think, to the fact that the two bases exercising upon the 
sections of liquid wiiich touch them a motive action much greater than that to which the 
parallel sections of the interior of the mass are subjected, there ensues near these bases, at 
the commencement of the rotation, an excess of centrifugal force which determines a ten- 
dency upwards and downwards of the liquid near the axis. It is therefore necessary to en- 
deavor to place the sphere of oil in a position very near to the midclle of the height of the 
vessel. Unfortunately we cannot use for this purpose the process of superposition of the al- 
coholic layers of unequal density, (ij 9;) for then, in the rotation of the flask, the denser in- 
ferior layers come necessarily, by the excess of centrifugal force which results from their ex- 
cess of density, to rise against the sides, causing the less dense liquid to occupy the axis; and 
in this movement the mass of oil is drawn downwards, and is also dispersed upon the bottom 
of the vessel. 

By employing a homogeneous alcoholic mixture and a sphere of oil of only about three 
centimetres diameter, I liowever succeeded several times, by dint of patience, in giving to 
this sphere a suflicieutly exact ])osition in the flask to be able to keep it at the same height 
until it had itself taken the rotatory movement of the whole system. But then, when I 
stopped the flask, a violent internal agitation was produced, which almost alwa3^s dispersed 
the oil in innumerable spherules througliout the alcoholic liquid, or at least destroyed its form 
in a completely irregular manner. I attribute these effects to the following cause. When 
the flask is stopped, the portions of the alcoholic liquid which touch the sides and bases, losing 
first their centrifugal force, the more internal portions, which still retain theirs, make their 
way through them, dividing them, and this confusion is soon propagated to the axis, where 
it gives rise either to the dispersion or to the irregular disfiguring of the mass of oil. 

In the cases in which I have been able to give a suitable position to the sphere of oil, I 
"have observed a curious eftect; namely, that in the first instance of tlie rotation of tlie vessel 
the mass of oil quits the spherical form, and becomes elongated in the direction of the axis 
of rotation. This elongation is easy explained : the movement of rotation is communicated 
to the j)ortions of the mixture which are nearest tlie axis above and below the mass of oil, 
before being able to communicate itself witli the same intensity to the latter: hence, in the 
different points of tins mass, there must result a less centrifugal force than in the points of 
the alcoholic mixture sitiuited at the same distances from the axis of rotation. Thence a rush 
of the oil to the axis, and an elongation of the mass of the latter in the direction of this same 
axis. ]5ut, on continuing the rotation, the 41 comes to receive the same movement as the 
surrounding liquid, and it also resumes gradually the spherical form. 

On stopping the flask, not suddenly, but in a rather rapid manner, I succeeded once in 
obtainmg a result sufiiciently regular, and I observed, as I expected, the sphere become flat- 
tened considerably in the direction of the axis of rotation. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 221 

tres was gubstitutcd *, whicli renders necessarj^, in order to form tlie ring well, 
a less velocitj of rotation than with the preceding disc, (the most suitable ap- 
pears to me to be a little less than two turns in a second.) Noav, instead of 
stopping the movement of the disc at the instant Avhen the ring has attained its 
greatest development, we must continue to move the handle. The film of oil 
will then break in a little time, as if the disc had been stopped ; but, the latter 
continuing to revolve in the alcoholic liquor, the portions of that liquor whicli 
are in contact with it will themselves assume a rotatory movement, and the 
cenirifugal force which results from it will drive them continually towards the 
ring, so that the latter'will not be able to i-eturn upon itself. Now, in these 
circumstances, we soon see the ring lose its regularity, then divide into several 
isolated masses, each of which immediately takes the spherical form. Thus the 
ring, when it cannot preserve its ligure on account of the decrease of its cen- 
trifugal force, and an obstacle prevents its reforming itself into a single sphei'e, 
resolved itself into several isolated spheres. As soon as the separation begins 
to take place, the movement of the disc must be stopped. 

This is not all : one or more of these spheres are then almost ahvays seen 
to assume, at the instant of their formation, a movement of rotation ujiou them- 
selves — a movement which constantly takes place in the same direction as that 
of the ring. Moreover, as the ring, at the instant of its rupture, had still a re- 
mainder of velocity, the spheres to which it has given birth, tend to* fly off at a 
tangent ; but as, on the^other side, the disc, turning in the alcoholic liquor, has 
impressed on this a movement of rotation, the spheres are especially carried 
along by this last movement, and revolve for some time around the disc. Those 
which revolve at the same time upon themselves consequently then present the 
curious spectacle of planets revolving at the same time on themselves and in 
their orbit. The movement of rotation of these masses is, however, too slow, in 
relation to their diameter, to cause any sensible flattening. Finally, another 
very curious effect is also manifested in these circumstances. Besides three or 
four largo spheres into which the ring resolves itself, there are almost always 
produced one or two very small ones, which may thus be compared to satellites. 

The experiment which we have just described, presents, as we see, an image 
in miniature of the formation of the planets, according to the hypothesis of 
Laplace, by the rupture of the cosmical rings attributable to the condensation 
of the solar atmosphere. 

20. When some oil is introduced into a mixture containing a little excess of 
alcohol, a phenomenon is observable, which is connected with that of the ixiso- 
lution of the ring into isolated spheres. If the oil be poured in with sufficient 
rapidity it forms a long cylindrical train, extending from the beak of the funnel 
to the bottom of the vessel, where the mass gathers. .Now, this kind of tail, 
which connects the mass of oil with the beak of the funnel, remains as long as 
the oil which forms it has a sufficiently rapid movement of translation — that is 
to say, as long as we continue to pour ; but, as soon as we cease to pour out, 
and the movement of translation is slackened, the train of oil is instantly re- 
solved into several isolated spherules. 

21. The formation of a ring analogous to that of Saturn naturally inspires 
the desire to carry further the resemblance to the system of that planet, and to 
seek, whether, by some modification of our experiment, it Avould not be possible 
to contrive so that a sphere of oil should remain in the middle of the ring. Now, 
I have succeeded in producing this effect, by means of a process which I shall 
proceed to describe ; only that this experiment rjiust be regarded merely as a scien- 
tific sport, for the circumstances which give rise to the result have evidently no anal- 
ogy with those which can have occasioned the configuration of the system of Saturn. 

* This substitution is accomplished by tletaching the upper end of the axis of the first disc 
from the large wire which passes through the metallic stopper ($8,) and screwing }n its 
place the end of the axis of the new disc. 



222 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

It is first necessary to be able to give to the disc a considerable velocity of 
rotation. To do this, we adapt to the upper part of the vessel a system of two 
pulleys — one small, and fixed on to the prolongation of the axis of the disc at 
the place of the handle, which is taken aAvay ; the other larger, and to the axia 
of which the same handle is attached. In my apparatus the diameters of the 
two pulleys are, respectively, 12 and 75 millimetres. In the second place, the 
dianu-ter of the sphere being always nearly six centimetres, that of the disc 
should be only two centimetres. Lastly, the disc should not have, as in the 
preceeding experiments, its centre coinciding with that of the sphere. It should 
be placed lower, toward the inferior part of the latter. 

Matters being thus arranged, the handle is turned with a velocity which ex- 
perience soon enables us to determine. In my apparatus this velocity ought to be 
about two turns and a half per second, which nearly corresponds to fifteen turns 
of the disc in the same time. We then see, in general, a ring rapidly formed, 
which extends itself, leaving in its centre a mass of oil, to Avhich it remains 
ixnited by a thin pellicle. At the instant when the ring has attained a sufficient 
development, (and by habit alone can this be correctly learned,) the rotation is 
suddenly stopped. The pellicle then breaks, the ring remains completely iso- 
lated, and the central mass forms inio a sphere. We have thus, during some 
instants, a curious representation of the system of Saturn, except the flattening 
of the ring. The ring returns rapidly, afterwards, upon itself, and is again 
xmitcd to the central sphere. This experiment does not offer any great diffi- 
culties. It requires, however, some skill to succeed perfectly.* 

22. In describing(§ 10) the experiment in which the flattening of the sphere is 
effected by the immediate action of the disc, I have remarked that the movement 
of the latter should not be continued too long, because the mass of oil then 
comes to lose its form. Now, if Ave continue, nevertheless, to turn the handle, 
with a view to observe the results of this disfigurement, we see manifested new 
and very capricious effects. 

The sphere being Avell centred with relation to the disc, if we give velocities 
of one turn in six, five or four seconds to the latter, Ave begin, after seven or 
eight turns, to see the mass of oil elongate itself horizontally in one direction, 
taking a form A\diicli*resembles much an ellipsoid of three axes ; and, Avhat is 
more singular, this kind of ellipsoid is placed in an eccentric manner Avith rela- 
tion to the axis of rotation. Figure 4 represents, for a A^elocity of a turn in 

Fig.- 4. 






four seconds, the mass viewed from three different sides ; that is to say, from 
above and in the two lateral directions of the smallest and of the largest hori- 
zontal axis : the dotted parts indicate the positions of the disc and of the axis of 
rotation. The aspect of the mass seen from above shoAvs that it is slightly bent in one 
direction; but this effect is evidentJy OAving to the resistance of the ambient liquid. 
When once the mass has taken this form, it preserves it indefinitely as long 
as the movement of the disc continues ; it continues to rcA^olve eccentrically 



* On comnmincatnig this very experiment to the academy, in the sitting of April, 1842, 
(see thu Biilictius,) I stated tlint it Avas uecessary to vary tlic velocity of rotation. I have 
since touud that, having adopted a convenient velocity, it was best to keep it uniform. 




WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 223 

round the lat^r, and with a velocity much less than that of this disc. This 
inferior velocity, I may add, evidently also proceeds from the resistance of the 
ambient liquid. 

If a greater velocity is given to the disc without, however, passing a certain 
limit — if, for example, we give it one turn in three seconds, the phenomena are 
still of the same kind ; only the mass is more elongated, the flexure due to the 
resistance of the ambient liquid is more decided, and the j-j> 5 

form is more removed from an ellipsoid. Figure 5 repre- . 
sents the mass viewed on the side, and showing to the eye 
its greatest length. 

If the velocity of the disc is increased to a turn in two 
seconds, the phenomena become less constant and less 
regular. We should say that there is, for this velocity, a " 
transition from one oi'dcr of phenomena to another, and that the mass hesitates 
between the two. 

In fact, with a velocity still a little greater, namely, about one turn in a second 
and a half, the pheaiomena begin again to be regular and constant, but they are 
different from the first. They are exhibited in all their beauty Avhen the velocity 
is increased to a turn in a second. The mass then is at first deeply hollowed 
around the axis, as if the ring was on the point of being developed ; and it re- 
mains under this form of a circular bourrelet during sixteen to eighteen turns of 
the disc; we then see it elongate gradually according to a horizontal diameter, 
but no longer eccentrically, so that, seen from above, it presents an elliptic 
figure sometimes very perfect, of which the disc occupies the centre, (fig. 6.) 
This ellipse then lengthens more and more, rather rapidly, and begins to bend 

Fis. 6. Fis. 7. 






by the resistance of the ambient liquid, (fig. 7.) Lastly, on a sudden the mass 
becomes strongly inflected from both sides, and its form „. „ 

seen from above is then as represented in fig. 8. The ®* 

mass afterwards preserves this last form in a perfectly 
fixed manner, as long as the movement of the disc con- 
tinues. 

23. However capricious these phenomena may appear, 
chance, or accidental causes, have still no part in them. 
I have repeated a great number of times the experiments detailed above, and 
the effects have aways been identically the same for the same velocities. 

After having seen the stable figures Avhich the mass takes in these circum- 
stances, we cannot help making a comparison between these figures and the 
ellipsoids of three axes of MM. Jacobi and Liouville, (§15,) — ellipsoids which 
are also always, as the latter of these geometricians has shown, figures of stable 
equilibrium. Would the identity of the phenomena in the case of universal 
gravitation and in that of molecular attraction hold good so far 1 Doubtless 
the singular figures which we have just described are not ellipsoids ; but their 
aspect admits of our attributing the difference to the resistance of the ambient 
liquid, Avhicli on one side determines the flexures of which we have spoken, 
and on the other maintains a permanent inequality of angular velocity between 
the poi-tions adjoining the disc and the more distant portions. Calculation alone 
could inform us up to what point the above comparison is well founded ; the 
complete solution of the problem, for the case of molecular attraction, would per- 
haps not present difficulties so insurmountable as for that of universal attraction. 



224 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

24. In all thfc experiments wliicli I have described in this memoir, I have 
sui)i)Osed that the oil and the alcoholic mixture were rendered chemically inert 
Aviih ro;j:ard to each other, and 1 have paid (§ G) that it was easy in a short space 
of time to obtain two such liquids. I proceed now to detail the process by 
means of which this object is attained. 

We begin by making a mixture of alcohol and distilled water, containing a 
certain excess of alcohol, so that when submitted to the trial of the test tube 
(§ 3) it h'ts the small sphere of oil fall to the bottom rather rapidly. After 
having formed the mixture in quantity more than sufficient to till the vessel 
which is to serve for the experiments, we introduce into this same mixture a 
quantity of oil about double what is considered necessary for these experi- 
ments.* If a flask is not at hand large enough to contain the Avhole, we divide 
the masses among several separate flasks : but care must then be taken that 
each one may contain the same proportions of water, alcohol, and oil. After 
this we invert these flasks rapidly a great number of times, but without shaking 
them, until the oil has been divided into spherules of the size of a pin's head ; 
the whole is then left to rest. Then if the alcohol of the rnixture is in proper 
quantity, the spherules should sink with extreme slowness, so as to take about 
a quarter of an hour for the greater part to collect at the bottom of the flasks. 
If it is otherwise, Avater or alcohol is to be added, as may be required ; the con- 
tents to be mixed by inverting the flasks several times, as above, then left 
again to settle, and the operation thus to be recommenced until the result is 
obtained which I have described. When this point is obtained the whole is 
thrown ujion filters, care being taken to cover the funm'ls containing these . 
last with plates of glass. This precaution is necessary in order to prevent, 
as much as possible, the evaporation of the alcohol, and for another reason, of 
which we shall speak hereafter. The alcoholic liquor ])asses the first through 
the filters, ordinarily carrying with it a certain number of very minute spherules 
of oil. Wheii the greater part has thus passed, the spherules become more 
numerous. What still remains in the first filters, namely, the oil, and a residue 
of alcoholic liqxaor, is then thrown into a single fdtcr placed on a new flask. 
This last filtration takes place much more slowly than the first, on account of 
the viscosity of the oil. It is considerably accelerated by renewing the filter 
once or twice during the operation. If the funnel has been covered with suffi- 
cient care the oil will collect into a single mass at the bottom of the flask, under 
a layer of alcoholic liquor. 

The preceding operations have thus given us the following results : On the 
one hand, the inert alcoholic mixture, still holding a sm;ilL excess of alcohol, 
and containing a certain number of small spherules of oil; on the other hand, 
the oil equally inert, and covered with a little of this same alcoholic liquid. 
Now, a second filtration completely clears the first from the spherules which it 
holds. With respect to the oil, it is extracted from below the alcoholic layer 
by means of a small siphon, armed with a lateral ttibe, and received into a dry 
flask, which is to be perfectly corked. In this manner we have the two liquids 
separate and inactive, with regard to each other. When it is desired to use 
them, if we perceive that the alcoholic liquid is a little too dense, we correct it 
with pure alcohol ; and if, on the contrary, there is too little density, we correct 
it with alcohol at 16 degrees. In this latter case we must not use pure water* 
• because this, when it mixes with the prepared alcoholic liquor, produces in it a 
cloudiness more or less decided. 

The various trials I have made relatively to the above process, have led me 
to ascertain that the two liquids, when they have not been submitted to this 
preparation, are both modified by their mutual contact. The alcoholic liquid 

* It is indispensable to Lavo the two liquids thus in excess, on account of the quantities 
whicii iin: ufcossaiily lost during the diffuieut operations which wo shall describe, and in the 
preparation of the experiments. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 225 

dissolves some oil, and this in its turn probably dissolves some* alcoliol. It is 
especially from the modilication which the oil undergoes that its great diminu- 
tion of relative density results, (§ 6.) Xo\v, when the oil thus modified remains 
exposed to the air, it passes again gradually to the state of fresh oil, and resumes 
its former density. It is partly to avoid this that I have recommended the fun- 
nels which enclose the filters to be kept constantly covered, and the oil to be 
kept in a flask perfectly corked. As for the alcoholic mixture, it is evident that 
this last precaution is ecjually necessary. 

25. Before I conclude, I must forewarn those persons who may wish to repeat 
my experiments of two effects which sometimes occur, and which cause disturb- 
ance in the operations if the experimenter does not know the means of pre- 
venting or destroying them. 

When some oil is introduced into a mixture containing an excess of alcohol, it 
happens sometimes that the mass which has sunk to the bottom of the vessel 
contracts adherence with this bottom and spreads itself out more or less on its 
surface. There is then no means of removing it entire ; but the spreading of 
the adhesion may Joe prevented by contriving that the bottom of the vessel 
should be occupied by a layer of a mixture more dense than the oil, (§ 9.) 

The second effect to which I allude is presented in the inverse case — that is 
to say, when the sphere of oil, instead of reaching the bottom of the vessel, rises, 
on the contrary, to the surface of the alcoholic Jiquor, either because this liquor 
contains too little alcohol, or on account of a lowering of temperature, or because 
we have not been able to \ise prepared oil. TVhen this happens the mass flat- 
tens at first, more or less, at the surface of the mixture, as if this last opposed 
"a. resistance to it. Then, after some time, it makes its way through, and then pre- 
sents a portion of plane surface, more or less extended, on the level with that of the 
alcoholic liquor. But what occasions trouble is, that then, so to speak, it has 
contracted an adherence with this same surface, from which it is not detached 
without great difficulty. It is, at first, easy to prevent the production of this 
effect by pouring on the surface of the liquor a small layer of pure alcohol ; and 
this same means will serve also to destroy the effect in question, if it is already 
produced. In this latter case we may again invert the vessel with caution. 
The movement thus imparted to the ambient liquor suffices, ordinarily, to detach 
the mass of oil, with the exception of a small portion, which almost always re- 
mains adhering to the surface. 

26. Lastly, I have already mentioned the fact that, after a certain number of 
experiments, the oil becomes filled with small spherules of alcoholic liquor. 
Now, reciprocally, the ambient alcoholic liquor is also often sprinkled with a 
multitude of small spherules of oil. It is scarcely necessary to remark that, 
when all these spherules have become too numerous, and we desire to restore 
the liquids to their original transparency, this is easily accomplished by fillra- 
tions similar to those of Avhich I have spoken above, (§ 24.) 

27. We have been hitherto engaged with the figures assumed by a liquid 
mass abstracted from the action of gravity and submitted to the attraction of 
its molecules, either when this mass is at rest, or when a movement of rotation 
upon itself is imparted to it. Notwithstanding the difference of the laws which 
the attractive forces follow in this case and in that of the large planetary masses, 
we have seen produced, on a small scale, a striking representation of the 
majority of the phenomena of configuration relative to the celestial bodies. In 
the second part of this investigation we shall submit our liquid masses to new 
forces, and Ave shall then see developed a series of phenomena quite as curious 
but of a different class. 

Note. — Professor Faraday, who has repeated many of M. Plateau's remarkable and beau- 
tiful experiments, coloured his oil green, for the purpose of rendering it more distinctly visible 
in' the spirit, by dissolving in it a little oxide of copper. This, he states, is easily done by 
heating a little oil with the oxide, and then mingling that with the rest. 
15 S 



226 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



SECOND SERIES. 

PREFACE. 

At the period wlien attacked by the disease which lias entirely deprived me of sight, I had 
tcriniiiated the greater part of tlie'experinieuts relating to this series, as well as the following. 
M. Diiprez, correspondent of the Brussels Academy, and M. Donny, had the kindness to 
undertake those which were still wanting. I constantly directed their execution ; nearly all 
were made in my presence, and I followed all the details. I have therefore considered 
myself justified, in order to simplify the description, in expressing myself in the course of 
this investigation as if I had made the experiments. 

With respect to the theoretical portions, I am indebted to the able assistance of one of my 
colleagues, M. Lamarle, who has most kindly devoted many long hours to listening to the 
details of my investigations, and to aiding me in the explanation of several diflicult points. 
I am also indebted to another of my colleagues, JI. Manderlier, for the execution of a part 
of the calculations. 

May I ho. pennittcd to express in this place ray gratitude to these devoted friends? 
Thanks to their generous lielp, science is still an open field for me: notwithstanding the 
inlirmity with which I am afflicted, I am able to put in order the materials I have collected, 
and even to undertake fresh researches. , 



Prclhninnr}/ considerations and theoretical principles. General condition to 
he satisfied, hi/ the free surface of a liquid mass withdrawn from the action of 
gravitij, and in a state of equilihrinm. Liquid sphere. 

1. The process described in the previous memoir enabled us to destroy the 
action of gravity upon a liquid mass of considerable volume, leaving the mass 
completely at liberty to assume the figure assigned to it by the other forces to 
■which it is subject. This process consists essentially in introducing a mass of 
oil into a mixture of water and alcohol, the density of which is exactly equal 
to that of the oil employed. The mass thouikremains suspended in the sur- 
rounding liquid, and behaves as if Avithdrawn from gravity. By this means we 
have studied a series of phenomena of configuration, dependent either simply 
upon the proper molecular attraction of the mass, or upon the combination of 
this force with the centrifugal force. We shall now abandon the latter force, 
and introduce another of a different kind, the molecular, attraction exerted be- 
tween liquids and solids ; in other Avords, we shall cause the liquid mass to 
adhere to solid systems, and study the various forms assumed under these cir- 
cumstances by those portions of the surface which remain free. In this way 
we shall have the curious spectacle presented by the figures of equilibrium ap- 
pertaining to a liquid mass, absolutely devoid of gravity and adherent to a 
given solid system. 

But the figin-es which we shall obtain present another kind of interest. The 
free jjortions of their surface belong, as we shall show, to more extended figures, 
which may be conceived by the imagination, and which, in the same condition 
of total absence of gravity, Avould belong to a perfectly free liquid mass ; thus 
our processes Avill partially realize the figures of equilibrium of a mass of this 
kind. I'he latter are far from being confined to the sphere ; but among them 
the sphere alone is capable of being completely foi'med, the others presenting 
either infinite dimensions in certain directions, or other peculiarities which we 
shall point out, and which equally render their realization in the complete 
state impossible. 

Moreover, the results at which we shall arrive will constitute so many now 
and unexpected confirmations of tlie theory of the pressures exerted by liquids 
upon tlicniselves in virtue of the mutual attraction of llieir molecules, a theory 
upon which the explanation of the plumomcna of capillarity is based. 

Lastly, in our liquid figures wi; .shall discover remarkable properties, which* 
will lead ua to some important applications. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 227 

2. In order to guide us iu our experiments, and also to enable us to com- 
prehend tlieir bearing, we shall first consider the question iu a purely theoretic 
point of view. The action of gravity being eliminated and the liquid mass 
being at rest, the only forces upon which the figure of equilibrium will depend 
will be the molecular attraction of the liquid for itself, and that exerted between 
the liquid and the solid system to which we cause it to adhere. The action 
of the latter force ceases at an excessively minute distance from the solid ; 
hence, in regard to any point of the surface of the liquid situated at a sensible 
distance from the solid, we have only to consider the first of the two above 
forces, i. e., the molecular attraction of the liquid for itself. 

The general effect of the adhesive force exerted between the liquid and the 
solid is to oblige the surface of the former to pass certain lines ; for instance, 
if a liquid mass of suitable volume be caused to adhere to an elliptic plate, the 
surface of the mass will pass the elliptic outline of the plate. At every point 
of this surface, situated 'at a sensible distance from this margin, the molecular 
attraction of the liquid for itself alone is in action. 

Let us now examine into the fundamental condition which all points of the 
•free surface of the mass must satisfy, in virtue of the latter force. 

The determination of this condition and its analytical expression are com- 
prised in the beautiful theories upon which the explanation of the phenomena 
of capillarity is based, although geometricians have not specially studied the 
problem of the figure of a liquid mass void of gravity adherent to a given solid 
system. We shall, therefore, now resume the principles and the results of the 
theories in question, at least those which relate directly to our subject. 

3. Within the interior of a liquid mass, at any notable distance from its sur- 
face, each molecule is equally attracted in every direction ; but this is not the 
case at or very near the surface. In fact, let us consider a molecule situated 
at a distance from the surface less than the radius of the sphere of sensible 
activity of the molecular attraction, and let us imagine this molecule to be the 
centre of a small sjihere having this same radius. It is evident that one por- 
tion of this sphere being outside the liquid, the central molecule is no longer 
equally attracted in every direction, and that a preponderating attraction is 
directed towards the interior of the mass. If we now imagine a rectilinear 
canal, the diameter of which is very minute, to exist in the liquid, commencing 
at some point of the surface in a direction perpendicular to the latter, and ex- 
tending to a depth equal to the above radius of activity, the molecules con- 
tained in this minute canal, in accordance with what we have stated, will be 
attracted towards the interior of the mass, and the sum of all these actions-will 
constitute a pressure in the same direction. Now, the intensity of this pressure 
depends upon the curves of the surface at that point at which the minute canal 
commences. In fact, let us first suppose the surface to be concave, and let us 
pass a tangent plane through the point in question. All the molecules situated 
externally to this plane, and which are sufficiently near the minute canal for 
the latter to penetrate within their sphere of activity, will evidently attract the 
line of molecules which it contains from the interior towards the exterior of 
the mass. If, therefore, we suppressed that portion of the liquid situated ex- 
ternally to the plane, the pressure exerted by the line would be augmented. 
Hence it folloM's that the pressure corresponding to a concave surface is less 
than that which corresponds to a plane surface, and we may conceive that it 
will be less in proportion as the concavity is more marked. 

If the surface is convex, the pressure is, on the contrary, greater than when 
the surface is plane. To render this evident, let us again draw a tangent plane 
at that poiut at which the line of molecules commences, and let us imagine for 
a moment that the space included between the convex surface and this plane is 
filled with liquid. Let us then consider a molecule, m, of this space sufficiently 
near, and from this point let fall a perpendicular upon the minute canal. The 



228 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

action of the molecule m upon the portion of the line comprised between the 
base of the perpendicular and the surface will attract this portion towards the 
interior of the mass. If afterwards we take a portion of the line equal to 
the former from tlic other side of the perpendicular, and commencing at the base 
of the latter, the action of the molecule m upon this second portion will be equal 
and oppo.site to that which it exerted upon the first ; so that these two portions 
conjointly would neither be attracted towards the interior nor the exterior of 
the ma?s ; if beyond these two same portions another part of the line is com- 
prised within the sphere of activity of m, this part will evidently be attracted 
towards the exterior. The definitive action of vi upon the line Avill then be in 
the latter direction. Ilcnce it follows that all the molecules of the space com- 
prised between the surface and the tangent plane which are sufficiently near the 
line to exert an effective action upon it, will attract it towards the exterior of 
the mass. If, then, we suppress this portion of the liquid so as to reproduce 
the convex surface, the result will be an augmentation of the pressure on the 
pai't of the line. Thus the pressure corresponding to a convex surface is greater 
than that corresponding to a plane surface, and its amount will evidently be 
greater in proportion as the convexity is more marked. 

4. If the surface has a spherical curvature, it may be demonstrated that, rep- 
resenting the pressure corresponding to a plane surface by P, the radius of the 
sphere to which the surface belongs by r, and by A a constant, the pressure 
exerted by a line of molecules, and reduced to unity of the surface, will have 
the following value : P 4- ^ (\\ 

r 
r being positive in the case of a convex, and negative in that of a concave 
surface. 

Whatever be the form of the surface, let us imagine two spheres, the radii of 
which are tiiosc of greatest and least curvature at the point under consideration. 
It is evident that the pressure exerted by the line will be intermediate between 
those corresponding to these two spheres, and calculation shows that it is ex- 
actly their mean. Denoting the two radii in question by R and R', the press- 
ure exerted by the line, referred to the unity of surface, would be 

--ia^r.) • •• <^' 

The radii R and R' are positive when they belong to convex curves, or, in other 
terms, Avhen they are directed to the interior of the mass ; whilst they are nega- 
tive when they belong to concave curves, i. e., when they are directed towards 
the exterior. 

5. From the preceding details we can now easily deduce the condition of 
equilibrium relative to the free surface of the mass. 

The pressures exerted by the lines of molecules which commence at the dif- 
ferent points of the surface are transmitted to the whole mass ; consequently, 
for the existence of equilibrium in the latter, all the pressures must be equal to 
each other. In fact, let us imagine a minute canal running perpendicularly 
from some point of the surface, and subsequently becoming recurved so as to 
terminate perpendicularly at a second point of this same surface, it is evident 
that equilibrium can only exist in this minute canal when the pressures exerted 
by the lines which occupy its two extremities are eqtial ; and if this equality 
exists, equilibrium will necessarily exist also. Now, the pressures exerted by 
the different lines depend upon the curves of the surface at the point at which 
they commence ; these curves must therefore be such, at the various points of 
the free surface of the mass, as to determine everywhere the same pressure. 

Such is the condition which it Avas our object to arrive at, and to which in 
each case the free surface of the mass must be subject. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 229 

The analytical expression of this condition is directly deducible from the. 
general value of the pressure given in the preceding paragraph ; we only require 
to equalize this value to a constant, and, as the quantities P and A are them- 
selves constant, it is in fact sufficient to make 

i+w^"" ,<^' 

the quantity C being constant for the same figure of equilibrium. 

This equation is the same as those which are given by geometricians for ca- 
pillary surfaces, when, in the latter equations', the quantity representing gravity 
is supposed to be O. 

R and R' may be replaced by their analytical values; ^ve are thus led to a 
complicated differential equation, which only appears susceptible of integration 
in particular cases. Yet the eqiiation (3) will be useful to us in the above sim- 
ple form. Now we know that the normal plane sections which correspond to 
the greatest and the least curvature at the same point of any surface form a 
right angle with each other. Geometricians have shown, moreover, that if 
any two other rectangular planes be made to pass through the same normal, 
the radii of curvature, p and /?', corresponding to the two sections thus deter- 
mined, will be such that the quantity 1 — ; will be equal to the quantity 

-^ + TT",. Hence the first of these two quantities may be substituted for the 

second ; and, consequently, the equation of equilibrium, in its most general 
expression, will be 

- + -,= 0, ■ (4.) 

in Avhich equation p and p' denote the radii of curvature of any two rectangular 
sections passing through the same normal. 

6. These geometric properties lead to another signification of the equation 
(4.) We know that unity divided by the radius of curvature corresponding to' 
any point of a curve is the measure of the curvature at this point. The quantity 

— + — represents, then, the sum of the curvatures of two normal rectangular 
P f' 

sections at the point of the surface under consideration. This being admitted, 
if we imagine that the system of the two planes occupies successively 
different positions in turning around the same normal, a sum of curvatures 

— -I , 1 , -^ -\ , &;c., will correspond to each of these positions ; 

p p' p" p'" p^^ p^ 

and, according to the property noticed in the preceding paragraph, all these 
sums will have the same value. Consequently, if we add them together, 
and let n denote the number of positions of the system of the two planes, 
the total sum Avill be equal to 7i times the value of one of the partial sums, 

or to « B ' 1 B. Now, this total sum is that of all the curvatures 

— , — , — , — , &:c., iu number 2)1, correspondiuo' to all the sections determined 

/ )r III ' i o 

P p' p" p'" 

by the two planes. If, then, we divide the above equivalent quantity by 2n, 

the result — ( — -\ ; 1 will represent the mean of all these curvatures. Now, 

2\/> f' J 

as this result is independent of the value of n, or of the number of positions 
occupied by the system of the two planes, it will be equally true if we suppose 



230 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

this number to be infiuitely great, or, iu other words, if the successive positions 
of the .system of the two plaues arc iufiuitely approximated, aud consequently 
if this same system turns around the normal in such a manner as to determine 
all the curvatures which belong to the surface around the point in question. 

The quantity - | - H ^^ represents, then, the mean of all the curvatures of 

the surface at the same point, or the mean curvature at this point. Now if, in 

passing from one point of the surface to another, the quantity - -1 -^ retains 

the same value, i. c, if for the whole surface we have — | : = C, this sur- 

P P 
face is such that its mean curvature is constant. 

Considered in this purely mathematical point of view, the equation (4) has 
formed the object of the researches of several geometriciaud, aud we shall profit 
by these researches iu the subsequent parts of this memoir. 

Thus our liquid surfaces should satisfy this condition, that the mean curve 
must be the same everywhere. We can understand that if this occurs, the 
mean efiect of the curvatures at each point upon the pressure corresponding to 
this point also remains the same, and that this gives rise to equilibrium. Hence 
we now see more clearly the nature of the surfaces we shall have to consider, 
and why they constitute surfaces of equilibrium. 

6*. We must now call attention to an immediate consequence of the theo- 
retical principles which have led us to the general condition of equilibrium. 
According to these principles, each of the linos of molecules exerting upon the 
mass the pressures upon which its form depends, commences at the surface and 
terminates at a depth equal to the radius of the sensible activity of the mole- 
cular attraction, so that these lines collectively constitute a superficial layer, 
the thickness of which is equal to the radius itself, and we know that this is 
of extreme minuteness. It results from this that the formative forces exerted 
by the liquid upon itself emanate solely from an excessively thin superficial 
layer. We shall denominate this consequence the princ/j^le of the superficial 
layer. 

7. A spherical surface evidently satisfies the condition of equilibrium, because 
all the curvatures in it are the same at each point; also when our mass is per- 
fectly free, i. e., when it is not adherent to any solid which obliges its surface 
to assume some other curve, it in fact takes the form of the sphere, as shown 
in the preceding memoir. 

8. Before proceeding further, we ought to elucidate one point of great im- 
portance in regard to the experimental part of our investigations. The liquid 
mass in our experiments being immersed in another liquid, the qiiestion may 
be asked whether the molecular actions exerted by the latter exert no infiuence 
upon the iigure produced; or, in other words, whether the figure of equilibrium 
of a li([uid mass adherent to a solid system, and withdrawn from the action 
of gravity by its immersion in another liquid of the same density as itself, is 
exactly the same as if the mass adherent to the solid system were really de- 
prived of gravity and Avere placed in vacuo. Now, we shall show ithat this 
really is the case. The molecular actions resulting from the presence of the 
surrounding liquid are of two kinds, viz., those resulting from the attraction of 
this li([uid for itself, and those resulting from the mutual attraction of the two 
liquids. Let us first consider the former, imagining for an instant that the 
otlu'rs do not exist. The surrounding liquid being applied to the i'ree surface 
of the immersed mass, the former presents in i^ifngHo the same figure as the 
latter mass presents in relief. Those molecules of this same liquid which are 
near the common surface of the tAVO media must then exert pressures of the same 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 231 

nature as tliose which we have cousidered throup;hout the preceding details, 
towards the interior of tlie liquid to Avhich they belong, and these pressures 
must consequently also impart a figure of equilibrium to the surface in intaglio ; 
so that if the immersed mass of itself had no tendency to assume any one iigure 
rather than anotlier, the surrounding liquid would give it a determinate one, by 
compelling it to mould itself in the above hollow figure. This is why a bubble 
of air in a liquid assumes the globular form, solely in consequence of the pres- 
sures exerted by the liquid upon it. Kow let us suppose that the immersed 
mass has assumed that figure which it would acquire in vacuo if really deprived 
of gravity; the analytical condition of paragraph 5 would then be satisfied as 
regards this mass. Now at each point of tne common surface of the two media, 
the radii of curvature p and />' have the same absolute values, both in the case 
of the immersed mass and of the hollow figure of the surrounding liquid, except 
that their signs are contrary, according as they are considered as referring to 
one or the other of the two liquids. To pass from one of the two figures to 
the other, we need therefore only change the signs p and />', or, what comes to 
the same thing, change the sign of the constant C. Changing the sign does 
not destroy the condition of equilibrium ; and consequently, if the immersed 
mass is in equilibrium as regards its own molecular attractions, the same will 
hold good in the case of the hollow figure of the surrounding liquid. The 
pressures of the latter liquid cannot, therefore, by themselves produce any 
modification in the figure of equilibrium of the immersed mass. 

Let us now introduce the second kind of molecular actions, i. e., the mutual 
attraction of the two liquids, and see what will be its efiects. Let us imagine, 
for an instant, that the immersed mass, or, for the sake of fixing the ideas, the 
mass of oil in our experiments is replaced by the same kind of liquid as that 
which surrounds it, i. c, by the alcoholic mixture. In other words, supposing 
the vessel to contain only the alcoholic mixture and the solid system, let us 
limit, in the imagination, a portion Avithiu the liquid of the same figure and 
dimensions, and situated in the same manner as the preceding mass of oil. It 
is then clear that the molecules of the mass near its surface being, like those 
of the interior, completely surrounded by the same kind of liquid beyond their 
sphere of activity, these molecules Avill no longer exert any pressure upon the 
mass ; consequently, the pressures which would exist if this mass could be 
isolated must be considered as destroyed by the attractions emanating from 
the surrounding liquid. The latter forces are, therefore, all equal and opposite 
to the pressures in question. Now, as these are all equal to each other in ac- 
cordance with the figure which we have attributed to the imaginary surface of 
the mass, the attractions emanating from the surrounding liquid will also all be 
equal to each other. If we now replace the mass of oil, the attractions emanating 
from the surrounding liquid may certainly alter in absolute value, but it is evi- 
dent that they will retain their directions, and that they Avil! remain equal to 
each other. We therefore see that they Avill only diminish, by the same quan- 
tity, all the pressures exerted by the mass of oil upon itself; consequently, as 
all the differences remain equal to each other, the condition of equilibrium will 
still be satisfied as regards that mass. It is evident that the same mode of 
reasoning may be applied to the pressures exerted by the surrounding liquid 
upon itself — pressures which will retain their directions, all of which will only 
be diminished to the same extent by the attractions emanating from the oil, so 
that the condition of equilibrium will still be satisfied as regards the hollow 
figure of the surrounding liquid. Thus the whole of the molecular actions due 
to the presence of the surrounding liquid will not tend in any way to modify 
the figure of equilibrium of the immersed mass, which figure will, consequently, 
be idetitically the same as if that mass were really void of gravity and were 
placed in vacuo. We can, therefore, leave the surrounding liquid completelj' 



232 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

out of the question, its sole function being to neutralize the action of gravity 
upon the masri forming the object of the experiments. 

9. We f^llall now pass to the experimental part. And first, to avoid useless 
rt'iJetition, we shall say a few words relative to the apparatus to be used. As 
tin; liquid always consists of a mass of oil immersed in an alcoholic mixture of 
the same density as itself, our solid systems will all consist of iron, and this for 
the following reasons : In ordinary circumstances oil contracts, I beHeve, per- 
fect adhesion with all solids ; but this is not exactly the case when the same 
oil is plunged into a mixture of water and alcohol ; for then, in the case of cer- 
tahi solids, as, e.g., glass, the phenomena of adhesion sometimes undergo modi- 
fications which give rise to trouble in the experiments. Wc shall meet with 
an instance of this in the subsequent parts of this memoir. Now, the metals 
do not ]nesent this inconvenience ; moreover, the form which we have given to 
most of our solid systems would render their construction of any other sub- 
stance besides a ruetal difficult. Now, among metals we prefer iron, not copper, 
because oil removes nothing from iron, whilst by prolonged contact with copper 
it slightly attacks it, acquires a green color, and increases in density, which is 
a great inconvenience.* 

When we wish to use one of tlicse solid systems of iron, before introducing 
it into the vessel, it must be completely moistened with oil; and for this pur- 
pose it is not sufficient simply to immerse it in this liquid, but it must be care- 
fully rubbed with the finger. The presence of this coating facilitates the 
adherence of the liquid mass. 

We shall continue to make use of the vessel with plane walls, described in 
the preccdiiig memoir, § 8;t a common-shaped bottle, and the flask previously 
mentioned (§§ 5 and 8) in the same memoir, are not well adapted, because they 
do. not exhibit the true figure of the mass. 

When the solid system is composed of a single piece, it is supported by a 
vertical iron wire, which is screwed to the low^er end of the axis traversing the 
metallic stopper ; but for certain experiments the solid system is formed of two 
isolated parts, and then only one of them is attached to the axis, as I have 
stated ; the other is supported by small feet which rest upon the bottom of the 
vessel. It need not be mentioned that those liquids only which are prepared 
in such a manner as to be incapable of exerting any chemical action upon each 
other can be employed, (§§ 6 and 24 of the preceding memoir.) 

In addition to the little funnel for introducing the mass of oil into the vessel, 
the iron wire which serves for uniting the isolated spheres, &c., of which I have 
spoken in the preceding memoir, the experiments require some other accessory 
instruments, as, in the first place, a small glass syringe, the point of which is 
elongated and slightly bent. It is used as a sucking-pump, to remove, for in- 

* In a, letter wliicli Dr. Famday did me the honor of sending' to me, regarding the pre- 
cetliug memoir, he informed me lluit, when about to repeat my experiments before a nuu;erous 
audicuee, wishing to produce a still greater ditfercuce in the aspect of the tAvo liquids, he 
dissolved intentionally a little oxide of copper in the oil, so as to render tlie latter of a green 
color. The compound having thus been made beforehand, and rendered perfectly liomoge- 
neous, and the ulcoliolic mixlure having been regulated according to the density of the modi- 
tied oil, the presence of the copper in solution could not produce any inconvenience ; but in 
this case also tlie solid systems should unquestionably be made of iron. ' 

tin making tlie experiments rela.ing to the present memoir, I found that it was requisite 
slightly to mo<lify tlie apparatus in question. The second perlbration in the plate forming 
the lid of the vessel should be but htlle smaller than the centrat aperture ; its neck should be 
less elevated; and, lastly, it should be placed near the other; if left as previously described 
and figured, tlie emi)loyment of the accessory instruments which we shall iTescribe would be 
imi)0ssihle. Aloreover, the neck of the central aperture should be furnished with a slight 
rim, so that it may be easily taken hold of when we wish to remove the lid, as, e.g., v. hen it 
is required to attach a solid system which is too large to pass through this same aperture to 
thoa.'cis which traverses the stopper. Lastly, the vessel should be fumishea with a stop 
cock at its lower part, so that it may be easily emptied. 



WITHDRAWN PROM THE ACTION OP GRAVITY. 233 

stance, a portion of the oil composing tlie liquid massi, when it is required to 
diminish the volume of the latter, or to withdraw the entire mass of oil from the 
vessel, an operation which is sometimes required, &c. In the second place, two 
wooden spatulas, one being slightly bent, the other straight, covered with fine 
linen or cotton stuff. When these spatulas are introduced into the vessel, and 
the cloth Avith which they are furnished is thoroughly impregnated with the 
alcoholic liquid, the mass of oil does not adhere to them. Hence, by means of 
one or the other of these spatulas, the mass can be moved in the surrounding 
liquid, and conducted to the place which it is required to occupy in the interior 
of the vessel without any of it remaining upon the spatula. This is the pur- 
pose for which these instruments are intended. After they have been used, 
care must always be taken to agitate them in pure alcohol before allowing 
them to dry. If this precaution be omitted, the alcoholic mixture with which 
they are impregnated, on evaporating, would leave the small quantity of oil 
which it held in solution upon their surface; and when the ^ame instruments 
are used again, the mass of oil would adhere to it. In the third place, an iron 
spatula, the uses of which we shall point out in the proper place. Lastly, as it 
is necessary, in all the experiments which we shall relate, that the alcoholic 
liquid should be homogeneous, the process indicated in the preceding memoir 
(§ 25) cannot be used to prevent the mass of oil from becoming occasionally 
adherent to the bottom of the vessel ; but the same result is obtained by cover- 
ing the bottom with a square piece of linen. 

New experiments in support of the theoretical 2>rinciples hrought forward in the 
preceding obscrrations. Figures of equilibrium terminated by surfaces of 
spherical curvature. New j^ri'icijile relating to layers of liquids. 

10. The facts which Vi^e shall first describe may be cousidered as constituting 
the experimental demonstration of the principle of the superficial layer, (§ G, bis.) 
Let us imagine any solid system to be immersed in the liquid mass, and let us 
give to this mass such a volume that it may constitute a sphere which com- 
pletely envelops the solid system without the latter reaching the surface at any 
point. Then, if the above principle be true, the presence of the solid system 
will exert no influence upon the figure of equilibrium, because, under these 
circumstances, the superficial layer, from Avhich the configuring actions emanate, 
remains perfectly free ; whilst if these actions emanated from all points of the 
mass, any unsymmetrical modification occurring in the internal parts of the 
latter would necessarily produce one in the external form. This is confirmed 
by experiment. The condition of a solid system completely enveloped by the 
mass of oil would be somewhat difficult to realize ; but it must be remembered 
that, in the experiments relating to the preceding memoir, the system of the disk, 
by means of which the mass was made to revolve, was very nearly in this con- 
dition, because it did not reach the external surface of the mass excepting at 
the two very small spaces which gave passage to its axis. But we then saAv 
(§ 9 of the preceding memoir) that when the mass was at rest, its sphericity 
was only very slightly altered by the presence of this system. The theoretical 
condition may be more nearly approached by taking a very fine metallic Avire 
for the axis of this same system ; in this case the alteration in form is quite 
imperceptible. The axis being supposed to be vertical, the disk may, moreover, 
be placed so that its centre coincides Avith that of the mass of oil, or is situated 
above or below the latter Avithout producing any difference. I shall relate 
another fact of an analogous nature. In the course of the experiments, it some- 
times happens that portions of the alcoholic liqvxid become imprisoned in the 
interior of the mass of oil, forming so many isolated spheres. Now, hoAvever 
these spheres may be situated in the interior of the mass, not the least alteration 
is produced in the figure of the latter. 



234 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



11. Again, lot us caui?e some kiud of solid system to penetrate the liquid 
mass; but now let the mass be of too small a volume to be capable of com- 
pletely enveloping this system. The latter will then necessarily reach the 
eupcrlicial layer; and, if the princii)le in question be true, the figure of the 
liquid mass will be modified, or, in other words, will cease to remain spherical. 
This doi's really occur, as we might have expected ; the liquid mass becomes 
extended at those portions of the solid system which project externally from 
its surface ; it finally cither occupies the whole of these portions, or only a part 
of their extent, according to the form and the dimensions of the solid system, 
and thus assumes a new iigure of equilibrium. We shall meet with examples 
of this hereafter, (§§14, l.O, 17.) 

12. Instead of causing the solid system to penetrate the interior of the liquid 
mass, let it simply be placed in contact w^ith the external surface of the latter. 
Au action being then established at a point of the superficial layer, equilibrium 
must be destroyed, and the figure of the liquid mass ought again to be modified. 
This really occui*s ; the mass becomes extended upon the surface presented to 
it, and consequently acquires a different shape. This resttlt might also have 
been anticipated from what occurs under ordinary circumstances, when a drop 
of water is placed upon a previously moistened solid surface. ' One might be 
induced to believe that, as regards the actual result, this case is referable to 
that of tlic preceding paragraph or that in paragraph 10 ; for it appears that 
the liquid mass, becoming extended upon the solid system so as to obtain the 
new figure of equilibrium, should ultimately occupy or envelop this system in 
the same manner as if the latter had been made to penetrate its interior directly. 
Under certain circumstances this must occur ; but the experiments Avhich are 
about to be related will show that under other circumstances the result is 
totally different. 

13. Let us take for the solid system a thin circular plate,* attached by its 
centre to the iron wire which supports it, (Fig. 1,) and let us pro'duce the 



J^;^ /. 



fi^. 2. 




adhesion of its lower surface to the upper part of the mass of oil.t Directly 
contact is completely established, the oil extends rapidly over the surface pre- 



* TIic dianu'tcr of that which I have u.sed is 4 centimetres. I mention this diameter for 
the sake of being' definite. It is evident tliat in onr experiments the diineusious of the appa- 
ratus arc coiiip;etely arbitrary, except that if these dimensions exceed certain limits, the 
operations will become euibanassing in cousequence of the large quantities of liquid which 
would be icquiied. 

t In order that this operation may be effected with facility, the sphere of oil must first 
remain in the surrounding liquid beneath the central aperture in the lid ; the plate being then 
introduced into ilic vessel, we have merely to lower it by means of the axis traversing the 
8toi)])cr to In-ing it towards tlie liquid mass. If the latter does not occupy the position in 
question, it must be pieviously placed there l\y means of a spatula covered with linen, {^ 9.) 
It must be remarked here, that true contact between the plate and the sphere of oil does not 
ustuiliy ensue iumiediatcly ; a certain resistance has to be overcome, analogous to that treated 
of in the note to paragraph 4 of the preceding memoir; but to overcome this, the liquid 
sphere need only be gently moved by means of the jjlate. The slight resulting pressiure 
Boon causes the rupture of the obstacle and the production of adhesion. 



WITHDSAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



235 



genCed to it; but, what is remarkable, although the precaution has been taken 
of rubbing the whole of the system, (§ 9,) that is, the two faces of the plate as 
well as its rim, with oil, the oil terminates abruptly at this rim without passing 
to the other side of the plate, and thus presents a sudden interruption in the 
curvature of its surface. In the case in question, the new figure acquired by 
the mass is a portion of a sphere. This portion will be as much larger in pro- 
portion to the complete sphere as the volume of oil is greater ; but the curvature 
will always terminate abruptly at the margin of the plate. (See Fig. 2, which 
represents a section of the solid system and the adherent mass in the case of 
three different volumes of the latter.) 

The cause of this singular interruption of continuity is readily understood. 
The rim of the plate reaching to the superficial layer, it is natural that some- 
thing peculiar should occur along this margin, and that the continuity of form 
should cease at that point where a foreign attractive action is exerted without 
transition on the superficial layer. 

14. Let us again make use of the above plate ; but instead of presenting one 
of its faces to the exterior of the sphere of oil, let us insert the plate edgewise 
into the interior of this sphere.* The liquid will necessarily extend over both 
faces of the solid ; and if the diameter of the primitive sphere were less than 
thxit of the plate, the oil will be seen to form two spherical segments upon the 
two laces in question, the curvatures of which will still terminate abruptly at 
the margin of the plate. These two segments may be either equal or unequal, 
according as the edge of the plate has been introduced into the liquid sphere in 
such a manner that the plane of the plate passes through the centre of the 
sphere or not. The upper segment will be slightly deformed by the action of 
the suspending wire ; but this eftect will be less sensible in proportion to the 
thinness of the Avire in question. Fig. 3 represents the result of the experiment 
with two unequal segments. The discontinuity of the curvatures is a very 
general fact, which Ave shall frequently find to recur in the course of our 
experiments ; it Avill hereafter lead us to very important consequences. 



/-/^J. 



^7y. 4-. 



7i'ff.5, 



J'icf.G, 







15. I have repeated the same experiment, substituting a plate of an elliptic 
form for the circular plate. In this, as in the preceding case, the oil extends 
OA-er both laces of the solid, so as entirely to cover them ; and, if the volume of 



"^ Tliis openition is peifoiuied as follows: The stopper to wliieh the system of the ])lal6 is 
attached is kept at some distance above the neck of the central aperture, in such a manner, 
however, that the latter is immersed to a sufficient depth in the alcoholic mixture. The 
plate can then be moA'cd with tolerable freedom, and it is conducted towards the liquid 
mass For this purpose the latter ought previously to occupy a suitable position. Imme- 
diatelj- the l.quid mass is cut, the piate is kept still until the action is terminated, after 
which the stopper is carefully placed in the neck. A process the reverse to the preceding 
may also be made use of. The liquid mass is first made to occupy a position near the second 
aperture, and a sufficient distance from the axis which passes through the centre of the cen- 
tral aperture; then, having fixed the solid system timdy in the position which it is to occupy, 
move the liquid mass towards it, and when this has been cut, allow the action to continue 
uninterruptedly. These processes are also emploj'ed in other experiments, and it is enough 
to have pointed them out once. In some cases the second is the only practicable one. This 
may be easily decided upon in making the experiments. 



236 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

the liquid mass is not too great, the curvatures again terminate abruptly al5ng 
the rim of the plate. By gradually augmenting the volume of the primitive 
sphere of oil, without, however, rendering it sufficiently large to allow of the 
mass completely enveloping the plate so as to retain the spherical form, a limit 
is attained at which the edge of the plate ceases to reach the superficial layer 
of the new figure of equilibrium except at the two summits of the ellipse. The 
discontinuity in the curvatures then only occurs at these two places. Figs. 4 
and 5 exhibit the result of the experiment in this case. In Fig. 4 the long axis 
of the ellipse is presented to view, in Fig. 5 its short axis. 

IG. All the facts which we have hitherto detailed show that so long as the 
interior of the mass is modified its external shape undergoes no alteration ; but 
that directly the superficial layer is acted upon, the mass acqua-es a different 
form. To complete the proof, by experiment alone, that the configuring actions' 
exerted by the liquid upon itself emanate solely from the superficial layer, the 
only point would then be the possibility of reducing a liquid mass to its super- 
ficial layer, or at least to a thin pellicle, and to see if in this state it would 
assume the same figure of equilibrium as a complete mass. Now this is com- 
pletely realized in soap-bubbles ; for these bubbles, when detached from the 
tube iu which they have been made, assume, as is well known, a Spherical form, 
i. c, the same figure as that which we find a complete mass acquires in our 
apparatus when withdrawn from the action of gravity and perfectly free. 
When the mass adheres to a solid system, which modifies its figure, it is clear 
that the entire contigurative action is composed of two parts, one of which 
belougs to the solid system ; and we find that this system only exerts it when 
acting upon the superficial layer ; the other belongs to the liquid, and emanates 
directly from the free portion of this same superficial layer. The facts which 
we have related show clearly what is the seat of this second part of the whole 
configurative action, but they do not make us acquainted with the nature of 
the forces of which it consists. On referring to theory, Ave find that these forces 
consist in pressures exerted upon the mass by all the elements of the superficia 1 
layer, pressures the intensity of which depend upon the curvatures of the surface 
at the points to Avhich they correspond. Hence it follows that the mass is 
pressed upon by every part of its superficial layer, with an intensity depending 
in the same manner upon the curvatures of the surface. For instance, a mass 
the free surface of which presents a convex spherical curvature, will be pressed 
upon by the whole of the superficial layer belonging to this free surfsice, with a 
greater intensity than if this surface had been plane ; and this intensity will be 
more consid(.'rable in proportion as the curvature is greater, or as the radius of 
the sphere to which the surface belongs is less. Let us see whether experiment 
will lead us to the same conclusions. 

17. The solid system which we shall employ is a circular perforated plate, 
(Fig. 6.) It is placed vertically, and attached by a point of its circumference 
to the iron wire which supports it. Let the diameter of the sphere of oil be less 
than that of the plate, aiul let the latter be made to penetrate the mass by its 
edge in a direction which does not pass through the centre of the sphere. At 
first, as in the experiment at paragraph 14, the oil will form two unequal 
spherical segments : but matters do not remain in this state. The most convex 
segment is seen to diminish gradually in volume, consequently in curvature, 
whilst the other increases, until they have both become exactly equal. One 
part of the oil then passes through the aperture in the plate, so as to be trans- 
ferred from one of the segments towards the other, until the above equality is 
attained. 

Let us now examine into the consequences deducible from this experiment, 
judging from the preceding ones, and independently of all theoretical considera- 
tions. When the oil has once become extended over both surfaces of the plate, 
in such a manner that the superficial layer is applied to every part of the 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 237 

margin of the latter, tlie action of the solid system is completed ; and the move- 
ments which subsequently ensue in the liquid mass, to attain the figure of 
, equilibrium, can only then be due to an action emanating from the free part of 
the superficial layer. It is, therefore, the latter which compels the liquid to pass 
through the aperture in the plate ; and the phenomenon must necessarily result 
either from a pressure exerted by that portion of the superficial layer which 
belongs to the most convex segment, or by a traction produced by the portion 
of this same layer belonging to the other segment. Our experiment not being 
alone capable of determining our choice between these two methods of explaining 
the effect in question, let us provisionally adopt the first, i. e., that which attributes 
it to pressure. ■ In our experiment, this pressure emanates from the superficial 
layer of the most curved segment ; but it is easy to see that the superficial layer 
of the other segment also exerts a pressure which, alone, is less than the pre- 
ceding. In fact, if for the most curved segment a segment less curved than the 
other were substituted, the oil would then be driven in the opposite direction. 
Hence it follows that the entire superficial layer of the mass exerts a pressure 
upon the liquid which it encloses, and that the intensity of this pressure depends 
upon the curvatures of the free surface. Moreover, as the liquid proceeds from 
the most curved segment to that which is least so, it is evident that in the case 
of a convex surface, the curvature of which is spherical, the pressure is greater 
in proportion as the curvature is more marked, or as the radius of the sphere to 
which the surface belongs is smaller. Lastly, since a plane siuface may be 
considered as belonging to a sphere, the radius of which is infinitely great, it is 
evident that the pressure corresponding to a convex surface, the curvature of 
which is spherical, is superior to that which would correspond to a plane surface. 
All these results were announced by theory. They perfectly verify, then, that 
part of the latter to which they refer, and this concordance ought now to decide 
in favor of the hypothesis of pressure. This same part of the theory was already 
verified, in its application to liquids submitted to the action of gravity, by the 
phenomenon of the depression presented by liquids in capillary tubes, the walls 
of which they do not moisten ; but the series of our experiments, setting out 
with the elements of the theory, and following it step by step, yields far more 
direct and complete verification. Our last experiment leads us to still further 
consequences. The liquid passing from one of its segments to the other, so 
long as their curvatures have not become identical, and the pressures corre- 
sponding to the two portions of the superficial layer becoming equal to each 
other simultaneously with the two curvatures, it follows that the mass only 
attains its figure of equilibrium when this equality of pressure is established. 
We thus have a primary verification of the general theory of equilibrium which 
governs our liquid figures, a condition in virtue of which the pressures exerted 
by the superficial layer ought to be everywhere the same. Moreover, it is 
evident that if a superficial layer, having a spherical curvature, exerts by itself 
a pressure, this principle must be true, however small the ex-tent of this layer 
may be supposed to be. It follows, therefore, that an extremely minute por- 
tion of the superficial layer of our mass, taken from any part of either of the 
two segments, ought itself to be the seat of a slight pressure; consequently, 
that the total pressure exerted by the superficial layer is the result of individual 
pressures emanating from all the elements of this layer. This was also shown 
by theory. Further, following the same train of reasoning, we sec that the 
intensity of each of the minute individual pressures ought to depend upon the 
curvature of the corresponding element of the layer, which is also in conformity 
with theory. Lastly, as in a state of equilibrium the two segments belong to 
spheres of equal radii, the curvature is the same in all points of the surface 
of the mass ; whence it follo\i^3 that all the minute elementary pressures are 
equal to each other. The general condition of equilibrium (§ 5) is, therefore, 
perfectly verified in the instance of our experiment. 



238 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRimi OF A LIQUID MASS 

18. The principle of the puperficial layer, applied to the preceding experi- 
ment, allows of the latter being modified in such a manner as to obtain a very 
remarkable result. When the figure of equilibrium is once attained, the per- 
forated i)late acts upon the superficial layer by its external border only. The 
whole of the remainder of this plate then exerts no influence upon the figure in 
question. Hence it follows that this figure would still be the same if the aper- 
ture were enlarged, only the greater the diameter of the latter the less time is 
required for the establishment of the equality between the two cur^■atures. 
Lastly, we ought to be able to enlarge the ajjcrture nearly to the margin of the 
plate without changing the figure of equilibrium ; or, in other words, to reduce 
the solid system to a simple ring of thin iron wire. Now, this if? confirmed by 
experiment; but, to put it in execution, we cannot confine ourselves, as before, 
to making the solid system penetrate a sphere of oil of less diameter than that 
of this same system, and subsequently to allow the molecular forces to act, be- 
cause the metallic wire, on account of its small extent of surface, Avould not 
exert a sufficient action upon the supc^rficial layer to cause the liquid to extend 
so as to adhere to the entire surface of the ring. The mass would then remain 
traversed by part of the latter, and its spherical form would not be sensibly 
altered if the metallic wire were small; the liquid surface would merely be 
slightly raised upon the wire in the two small spaces at which it issued from 
the mass. To speak more exactly, under the circumstances in question two 
figures of equilibrium are possible. One of these differs but very slightly from 
the sphere ; it is not symmetrical with regard to the ring, one part of Avhich 
traverses it whilst the other part remains free. The second figure is perfectly 
symmetrical as regards the ring, and completely embraces its margin; its surface 
is composed of two equal spherical curves, the margins of wdiich rest upon the 
ring; in other words, it constitutes a true doubly convex lens of equal curva- 
tures. This is the figure which it is our object to obtain. For this purpose 
we first give the sphere of oil a diameter slightly greater than that of the 
metallic ring ; we then introduce the latter into the mass so that it is com- 
pletely enveloped; lastly, by means of the small glass syringe, (§ 9,) some of 
the liquid is gradually i-emoved from the mass.* As this diminishes in A-olume, 
its surface is soon applied to every part of the margin of the ring, and the 
volume continuing to diminish, the lenticular form beeomes manifest. After- 
wards, by withdrawing more of the liquid, the curvatures of the two surfaces 
may be reduced to that degree which is considered suitable. In this Avay a 
beautiful double convex lens is obtained, which is entirely liquid except at its 
circumference. Moreover, in consequence of the index of refraction of the 
olive oil being much greater than that of the alcoholic mixture, the lens in 
question posfiesscs all the properties of converging lenses ; thus, it magnil^es 
objects seen" through it, and this magnifying power may be varied at pleasure 
by removing some of the liquid from, or adding more to, the mass. Our figure, 
therefore, realizes that which could not be obtained with glass lenses, i. e., it 
forms a lens, the curvature and magnifying power of which are variable. The 
diameter of that which I formed was 7 centimetres, and the thickness of the 
metallic wire was about ^ a millimetre. A much finer ware might have been 
used with the same success ; but the apparatus Avould then become inconve- 
nient on account of the facility with which it would be put out of shape. By 
operating with care, the curvatures of the lens may be diminished so as almost 
to make them vanish ; thus I have been enabled to reduce the lens which I 
formed, and the diameter of which, as I have stated, Avas 7 centimetres, to 
such an extent that it was only 2 or 3 millimetres in thickness. Hence Ave 
might presume that it would be possible to obtain, by a proper mode of pro- 

* The poiut of the inslrumcut is iutroduccd into the vessel throutrli the second aperture in 
tbo lid. <= i 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 239 

ceeding, a layer of oil witli plane faces. This is, in fact, confirmed by expe- 
rience, as we shall see further on. 

19. To render the curvatures of the liquid lens very slight, the point of the 
' syringe must naturally be applied to the middle of the lens, because the maxi- 
mum of thickness exists there. Now, when a certain limit has been attained, 
the mass suddenly becomes divided at that point, and a curious phenomenon is 
produced. The licjuid rapidly retires in every direction towards the metallic 
circumference, and forms a beautiful liquid ring along the latter; but this ring 
does not last for more than one or two seconds, after which it spontaneously 
resolves itself into several small, almost spherical masses, adhering to various parts 
of the ring of iron wn-e, which passes through them like the beads of a necklace. 

20. The reasoning which led us, at the commencement of paragraph 18, to 
reduce the primitive solid system to a simple metallic wire representing- the line 
in the direction of which this system is met'by the superficial layer belonging 
to the new figure of equilibrium, may be generalized. We may conclude that 
whenever a solid s^'stem introduced into the mass is not met by the superficial 
layer of the figure produced, excepting in the direction of small lines only, sim- 
ple iron wires, representing the lines in question, may be substituted for the 
solid system employed. But if the volume of the primitive solid system were 
considerable, it would evidently be requisite to add to the mass of oil an equiva- 
lent volume of this liquid, to occupy the place of the solid parts suppressed. 

There is, however, an exception to this principle ; it occurs when the solid 
system separates the entire mass into isolated portions, as in the experiment of 
paragraph 14 ; for then these portions assume figures independent of each other, 
and Avhich may correspond to different pressures. In this case the suppression 
of one portion of the solid system would place the figures primitively isolated 
in communication, and the inequality of the pressures would necessarily induce 
a change in the whole figure. Excluding this exception, the principle is gen- 
eral, and the result of it is that well-developed eff"ccts of configuration may be 
obtained on employing simple iron wires instead of solid systems. The experi- 
ment of the biconvex lens furnishes one instance of this, and we shall meet with 
a great many others hereafter. Nevertheless, to be enabled to comprehend the 
influence of a simple metallic wire upon the configuration of the liquid mass, it 
is not requisite to consider this wire as substituted for a complete solid system ; 
it may also be considered by itself. It is, in fact, clear that the solid wire 
acting by attraction upon the superficial layer of the mass, the curvatures of 
the two portions of the surface resting upon it ought not to have any further 
relation of continuity with each other. The metallic wire may, therefore, de- 
termine a sudden transition between these two portions of the surface, the curv- 
atures of which Avill terminate abruptly at the limit which it places to them. 
The principles which we have established ought undoubtedly to be considered 
as among the most remarkable and curious consequences of the principle of the 
superficial layer, and one cannot avoid being astonished when we 
see the liquid maintained in such different forms by an action ex- 
erted upon the extremely minute parts of the superficial layer of 
the mass. 

21. We have experimentally studied the influence of convex 
surfaces of spherical curvature ; let us now ascertain what experi- 
ment is able to teach us in regard to plane surfaces and concave ^^^^ 
surfaces of spherical curvature. Let us take for the solid system a r 
large strip of iron, curved circularly so as to form a hollow cylinder, 
and attached to the suspending iron wire by some point on its outer 
surface, (Fig. 7.) To prevent the production of accessory phenomena 
in the experiment, we shall suppose that the breadth of the metallic 
band is less than the diameter of the cylinder formed by the same band, or that it 
is at least equal to it. Make the mass of oil adhere to the internal surface of this 



240 THE FIGURES OF EQUI1.IBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

system, and let us suppose that .the liquid is in sufficient quantity then to project 
outside the cylinder. In this case the mass will present on each side a convex 
surface of spherical curvature, and the curvatures of these two surfaces will be 
equal. This figure is a consequence of what we have previously seen; and we 
must not stop here, for it will serve us as a starting point in obtaining other 
lio-ures which we require. Apply the point of the syringe to one of the above 
convex surfaces, and gradually withdraw some of the liquid; the curvatures of 
the two surfaces will then gradually diminish, aud with care they may be ren- 
dered perfectly plane. It follows from this first result that a plane surface is 
also a surface of equilibrium, which is evidently in conformity with theory. Let 
us now apply the end of the syringe to one of these plane surfaces, and again 
remove a small quantity of liquid. The two surfaces will then become simul- 
taneously hollow, aud A\ill form two concave surftices of spherical curvature, the 
mar"-ins of which rest upon the metallic band, and the curvatures of which are 
the same. Finally, by the further removal of the liquid, the curvatures of the 
two surfaces become greater and greater, always remaining equal to each other. 

Hence it results, first, that concave surfaces of spherical curvature are still 
surfaces of equilibrium, which is also in accordance with theory. Moreover, as 
the plan(> surface left free sinks spontaneously as soon as that to which the in- 
strument is applied becomes concave, it must be concluded that the superficial 
layer belonging to the former exerts a pressure which is counterbalanced by an 
equal force emanating from the opposite superficial plane layer, but Avhich ceases 
to be so, and which drives away the liquid as soon as this opposite layer com- 
mences to become concave. Again, as further abstraction of the liquid deter- 
mines a new rupture of equilibrium, so that the concave surface opposite to that 
upon which we directly act exhibits a new spontaneous depression when the 
curvature of the other surface increases, it follows that the concave superficial 
layer belonging to the former still exerted a pressure, Avhich at first was neutral- 
ized by an equal pressure arising from the other concave layer, but Avhich be- 
comes pre^jonderant, and again drives away the liquid, when the curvature of 
this other layer is increased. 

Uttuce it f'ol]oA\'S, first, that a plane surface produces a pressure upon the 
liquid ; second, that a concave surface of spherical curvature also produces a 
pressure; third, that the latter is inferior to that corresponding to a plane surface; 
fourth, that it is less in proportion as the concavity is greater, or that the radius 
of the sphere to Avhich the surface belongs is smaller. These results were also 
pointed out by theory, and had already been verified in the application of the 
latter to liquids submitted to the, action of gravity, by the phenomenon of the 
elevation of a liquid column in a capillary tube, the Avails of Avhich are moistened 
by it. 

, Reasoning upon these facts, as Ave liave done at the end of paragraph 17 in 
regard to coua'Cx surfaces of spherical curA'ature, Ave shall arrive at the conclu- 
sion that the entii'e pressure exerted by a concave superficial layer of spherical 
curvature is the result of minute individual pressures arising from all the elements 
of this layer, and that thi; intensity of cacli of these minute pressures depends 
upon the curvature of that clenKmt of the layer from Avhich it emanates. Our 
last experiment, therefore, perfectly verifies that part of the theory Avhich relates 
to plane and convex surfaces of spherical curvature. Lastly, in the state of 
equilibrium of our liquid figure, the curvature being the same at all points of each 
of the two concave surfaces, it is again evident that all the minute elementary 
pressures are ec^iuil to each other, Avhich gives a new complete verification of 
the general condition of equilibrium. 

22. The figure we have just obtained constitutes a biconcave lens of equal 
curvatures, and possesses all the properties of diverging lenses, i. e., it dimin- 
ishes objects seen through it, &c. More&ver, as the curvature of the tAvo sur- 
faces may be increased or diminished by as small degrees as is Avisbed, it follows 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 241 

that we tlius obtain a diverging lens, the curvature and action of wliich are 
variable. 

23. Now let us suppose that we have increased the curvatm-es of the lens 
until the two surfaces nearly touch each other by their summits.* We might 
presume that if the removal of the liquid were continued, the mass would be- 
come disunited at that point at which this contact took place, and that the oil 
would recede in every direction towards the metallic baud. This is, however, 
not the case ; Ave then observe in the centre of the figure the formation of a 
small sharply defined Circular space, through which objects no 'longer appear 
diminished, and we easily recognize that this minute space is occupied by a 
layer of oil with plane faces. If the removal of the liquid be gradually con- 
tinued, this layer increases more and more in diameter, and may thus be ex- 
tended to within a tolerably short distance of the solid surface. In my experi- 
ment, the diameter of the metallic cylinder was seven centimetres, and I have 
been enabled to increase the size of the layer until its circumference was not 
more than about five millimetres from the solid surface ; but at this instant it 
broke, and the liquid of which it consisted rapidly receded towards that which 
still adhered to the metallic band. The fact which we have just described is 
very remarkable, both in itself and in the singular theoretical consequences to 
which it leads. In fact, that part of the mass to which the layer adheres by its 
margin pres(jnts concave surfaces, whilst those of the layer are plane ; now the 
existence of such a system of surfxces in a continuous liquid mass seems in op- ' 
position to theory, since it appears evident that the pressures cannot be equal 
in this case. But let us investigate the question more minutely. 

24. According to theory, the pressure corresponding to any point of the sur- 
face of a liquid mass, as we have seen, (§ 3,) is the integral of the pressures 
exerted by each of the molecules composing a rectilinear line perpendicular to 
the surface at that point, and equal in length to the radius of the sphere of 
activity of the molecular attraction. The analytical expression of this integral 
contains no other variables than the radii of the greatest and of the least curva- 
ture at the point under consideration, (§ 4,) consequently the pressure in 
question varies only.Avith the curvatures of the surface at the same point. This 
is rigorously true when the liquid is of any notable thickness ; but we shall 
show that in the case of an extremely thin layer of liquid there is another 
element which exerts an influence upon the pressure. Let us conceive a liquid 
layer, the thickness of which is less than twice the radius of the sphere of sen- 
sible activity of the molecular attraction. Let each molecule be conceived to 
be the centre of a small sphere with this same radius, (§ 3,) and let us first 
consider a molecule situated in the middle of the thickness of the layer. The 
little sphere, the centre of which is occupied by this molecule, will be intersected 
by the two surfaces of the layer, consequently it will not be entirely full of 
liquid; but the segments suppressed on the outside of the two surfaces being 
equal, the molecule will not be more attracted perpendicularly in one direction 
than in the other. Now let a small right line, normal to and terminating at the 
two surfaces, pass through this same molecule, and let us consider a second 
molecule situated at some other point of this right line. The little sphere 
which belongs to the second molecule in question may again be intersected by 
the two surfaces of the layer ; but then the two suppressed segments will be 
unequal ; the molecule will consequently be subjected to a preponderating at- 
traction, evi^lently directed towards the thickness of the layer. The molecule 
will then exert p, pressure in this direction, and it must be remarked that this 
pressure will be less than if the liquid had any notable thickness, the molecule 

* To effect this operation, the point of the syringe must not be pliiced in the middle of the 
figure, as in the case of the doubly convex ions; but, on the contrary, near the metallic 
band, as this is now the point whore the greatest thickness of the liquid exists. 
16 S 



242 THE FIGURES OP EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

being situated at tlie same diiftance from the surfince ; for in the latter case the 
litth' sphere Avould only be cut on one side, and its opposite part would be per- 
fectly full of liquid. It might also happen that the little sphere belonging to 
tlie molecule in question in the thin layer is only cut on one side ; the molecule 
will then still exert a pressure in the same direction, but its intensity will then 
be as great as in the case of a thick mass. It is easy to see that if the thick- 
ness of the layer is less than the simple length of the radius of the molecular 
attraction, the; little spheres will all he cut on both sides; Avhilst if the thickness 
in question is. comprised between the length of the above radius and twice this 
same length, a portion of the minute spheres will be cut on one side only. In 
both cases the pressure exerted by any molecule being always directed towards 
the middle of the thickness of the layer, it is evident that the integral pressure 
corresponding to any point of either of the two surfaces will be the result of the 
pressures individually exerted by each of those molecules, which, commencing 
at the point in question, are arranged upon half the length of the small perpen- 
dicular. Now each of the two halv(;s of the small perpendicular beiug less than 
the radius of the sphere of activity of the molecular attraction, it follows that 
the number of molecules composing the line which exerts the integral pressure 
is less than in the case of a thick mass. Thus, on the one hand, the intensities 
of part or the whole of the elementary pressures composing the integral pres- 
sure will be less than in the case of a thick mass, and, on the other hand, the 
number of these elementary pressures will be less ; from this it cvid'ently follows 
that the integral pressure will be inferior to that which would occur in the case 
of a thick mass. P always denoting the pressure corresponding to any point of 
a plane surface belonging to a thick mass, (§ 4,) the pressure corresponding 
to any point of either of the surfeces of an extremely thin plane layer will there- 
fore be less than P. Moreover, this pressure will be less in proportion as the 
layer is thinner, and it may thus diminish indefinitely ; for it is clear that it 
would be reduced to zero if we supposed that the thickness of the layer was 
equal to no more than that of a simple molecule. 

We can obtain liquid layers with curved surfaces ; soap-bubbles furnish an 
example of these, and we shall meet with others in the progi'ess of this investi- 
gation. Now by supposing the thickness of such a layer to be less than twice 
the radius of the molecular attraction, we should thus evidently arrive at the 
conclusion that the corresponding pressures at either of its two surfaces would 
be inferior in intensity to those given by paragraph 4, and that, moreover, these 
intensities are less in proportion as the layer is smaller. We thus arrive at the 
following neAV principle ; 

In the case of every liquid layer, the thichness of which is less than ticice the 
radius of the sphere of activity of the molecular attraction., the pressure will not 
depevd solely uj)on the curvatures of the surfaces, hit will vary with tlie thick- 
ness of the layer. 

25. We thus sec that an extremely thin plane liquid layer, adhering by its 
edge to a thick mass the surfeccs of which are concave, may form with this mass 
a system in a state of equilibrium ; for we may always suppose the thickness 
of the layer to be of such value that the pressure corresponding to the plane 
surfaces of this layer is equal to that corresponding to the concave surfaces of 
the thick mass. Such a system is also very remarkable in respect to its form, 
inasmuch as surfaces of different nature, as concave and plane surfaces, suc- 
ceed each other. This heterogeneity of form is, moreover, a natural consequence 
of the change which the law of pressures undergoes in passing f?bm the thick 
to the thin part. • 

26. As we liave already seen, theory demonstrates the possibility of the ex- 
istence of such a system in a state of equilibrium. As regards the experiment 
which has led us to these considerations, although the result presented by it 
tends to realize in an absolute manner the theoretical result, there is one circum- 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVIT 243 

stance which is unfavorable to the completion of this realization. We can un- 
derstand that the relative mobility of the molecules of oil is not sufficiently 
great to occasion the immediate formation of the liquid layer with that excessive 
tenuity which is requisite for equilibrium ; the thickness of this layer, although 
veiy minute, absolutely speaking, is undoubtedly, during the first moments, a 
considerable multiple of the theoretical thickness. If, then, we produce the 
layer without extending it to that limit to which it is capable of increasing 
during the operation, and afterwards leave it to itself, the pressure correspond- 
ing to its plane svirfaces will still exceed that corresponding to the concave 
surfaces of the remainder of the liquid system. Hence it follows that the oil 
within the layer will be driven towards this other part of' the system, and that 
the thickness of the layer will progressively diminish. The equilibrium of the 
figure will then be apparent only, and the layer will in realily be the seat of 
continual movements. The diminution in thickness, however, will be effected 
slowly, because in so confined a space the movements of the liquid are neces- 
sarily restrained; this is why, as in the experiment in paragraph 17, the mass 
only acquires its figure of equilibrium slowly, because there is a cause which 
impedes the movements of the liquid. The thickness of the layer gradually 
approximates to the theoretical value, from which the equilibrium of the system 
would result ; but unfortunately it always happens that before attaining this 
point the layei» breaks spontaneously. This effect depends, without doubt, 
upon the internal movements of which I have spoken above. We can imagine, 
in fact, that when the layer has become of extreme thinness, the slightest cause 
is sufficient to determine its rupture. The exact figure which corresponds to 
the equilibrium is therefore a limit towards which the figure produced tends ; 
this limit the latter approaches very nearly, and would attain if it Avere not itself 
previously destroyed by an extraneous cause. 

Oiu' experiment has led us to modify the results of theory in one particular 
instance ; but we now see that, far from weakening the principles of this theory, 
it furnishes, on the contrary, incomplete as it is, a new and striking verification 
of it. The conversion of the doubly .concave lens into a system comprising a 
thin layer is connected with an order of general facts : we shall see that a large 
number of our liquid figures become transformed, by the gradually produced 
diminution of the mass of which they are composed, into systems consisting of 
layers, or into the composition of which layers enter. 

27. If by some modification of our last experiment we could succeed in ob- 
taining the equilibrium of the liquid system, we might be able to deduce from 
it a result of great interest — an indication of the value of the radius of the 
sphere of activity of the molecular attraction. In fact, we might perhaps find 
out some method of determining the thickness of the layers ; these might, for 
instance, then exhibit colors, the tint of which would lead us to this determina- 
tion. Now we have seen that in the state of equilibrium of the figures, half the 
thickness of the layer would be less than the radius in question ; hence we 
should then have a limit above which the value of this same radius would exist. 
In other words, we should know that the molecular attraction produces sensible 
efi'ects, even at a distance from its centre of action beyond this limit. Our 
experiment, although insufficient, may thus be considered as the first step 
towards the determination of the distance of sensible activity of the molecular 
attraction, of which distance at present we know nothing, except that it is of 
extreme minuteness. 

28. Let us now return to the consideration of thick masses. It follows from 
the experiments related in paragraphs 13, 14, 17, 18, and 21, that when a con- 
tinuous portion of the surface of such a mass rests upon a circular periphery, 
this surface is always either of spherical curvature or plane. But to admit this 
principle in all its generality, we must be able to deduce it from theory. We 
shall do this in the following series, at least on the supposition that the portion 



244 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



of the surface in question is a surface of revolution. We shall tben see that 
this same principle is of great importance. AVe may remark here that in the 
cxporimeut in paragraph 23 the layer commences to appear as soon as the 
surfaces can no longer constitute spherical segments. Now we shall again find 
that in the other cases, when a full figure is converted, by the gradual with- 
drawal of the liquid, into a system composed of layers, or into the composition 
of which layers enter, the latter begin to be formed when the 
figure of equilibrium, which the ordinary law of pressures would 
determine, ceases to be possible. The mass then assumes, or 
tends to assume, another figure, compatible with a modification 
of this law. Such is the general principle of the formation of 
layers under the circumstances in question. 

29. After having formed a converging and a diverging liquid 
lens, it appeared to me curious to combine these two kinds of lens, 
so as to form a liquid telescope. For this purpose, 1 first substi- 
tuted for the ring of iron wire, in paragraph 18, a circular plate 
of the same diameter, perforated by a large aperture. (Fig. 8.) 
This plate having been turned in a lathe, 1 was certain of its being 
perfectly circular, which would be a very difficult condition to fulfil in the case of 
a simple curved iron wire. In the second place, I took for the solid part of the 
doubly concave lens a band of about two, centimetres in breaflth, and curved 
into a cylinder three and a half centimetres in diameter. These two systems 
were arranged as in I'ig. 9, in such a manner that the entire apparatus being 






f 



Fi^. M 




suspended vertically in the alcoholic mixture by the iron wire a, and the two 
liquid lenses being formed, their two centres Were at the same height, and ten 
centimetres distant from each other. In this arrangement the telescope cannot 
be adjusted by altering the distance between the objective and the eye-piece; 
but this end is attained by varying the curvatures of these tAvo lenses. With 
the aid of a few preliminary experiments, I easily managed to obtain an excel- 
lent Galilean telescope, magnifying distant objects about twice, like a common 
opera-glass, and giving perfectly distinct images with very little irisation. 
Fig. 10, which represents a section of the system, shows the two lenses com- 
bined. 



Figures of equilibrium terminated hy 2}lanc surfaces. 
Laminar figures of equilibrium. 



Liquid polyJiedra. 



30. In the experiment detailed at paragraph 21, we obtained a figure pre- 
senting plane surfaces. These were two in number, parallel, and bounded by 
circular peripheries ; but it is evident that these conditions are not necessary 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 245 

in order to allow plane surfaces to belong to a liquid mass in equilibrium. We 
can understand that the forms of the solid contours might be indifferent, pro- 
vided they constitute plane figures. We can, moreover, understand that the 
number and the relative directions of the plane surfaces may be a matter of 
indifference, because these circumstances exert no influence upon the pressures 
which correspond to these surfaces, pressures which will always remain equal 
to each other. Lastly, it follows from the principle at which we arrived at the 
end of paragraph 20, relative to the influence of solid wires, that for the estab- 
lishment of the transition between a plane and any other surface, a metallic 
thread representing the edge of the angle of intersection of these two surfaces 
will be sufficient. We are thus led to the curious result, that we ought to be 
able to form polyhedra, which are entirely liquid excepting at their edges. 
Now, this is completely verified by experiment. If for the solid system we 
take a framework of iron wire representing all the edges of any polyhedron, 
and we cause a mass of oil of the proper volume to adhere to this framework, 
we obtain, in fact, in a perfect manner, the polyhedron in question ; and the 
curious spectacle is thus obtained of parallelopipedons, prisms, &c., composed 
of oil, and the only solid part of which is their edges. 

To produce the adhesion of the liquid mass to the entire framework, a 
volume is first given to the mass slightly larger than that of the polyhedron 
which it is to form ; it is then placed in the framework ; and, lastly, by means 
of the iron spatula, (§ 9,) which must be introduced by the second aperture of 
the lid of the vessel, and which is made to penetrate the mass, the latter is 
readily made to attach itself successively to the entire length of each of the 
solid edges. The excess of oil is then gradually removed with the syringe, 
and all the surfaces thus become simultaneously exactly plane. But that this 
end may be attained in a complete manner, it is clearly requisite that the 
equilibrium of density between the oil and the alcoholic mixture should be 
perfectly established; and the slightest difference in this respect is sufficient to 
alter the surfaces sensibly. It should also be borne in mind that the manipu- 
lation with the spatula sometimes occasions the introduc- 
tion of alcoholic bubbles into the interior of the mass of 
oil. These are, however, easily removed by means of the 
syringe. 

31. Now, having formed a polyhedron, let us see what 
will happen if we gradually remove some of the liquid. 
Let us take, for instance, the cube, the solid framework of 
which, with its suspending wire, is represented at Fig. 11.* 
Let the point of the syringe be applied near the middle of 
one of the faces, and let a small quantity of the oil be drawn 
up. All the faces will immediately become depressed simul- 
taneously and to the same extent, so that the super- 
ficial square contours will form the bases of six similar hollow figures. We 
should have imagined this to have been the case for the maintenance of equality 
between the pressures. 

If fresh portions of the liquid are removed, the faces will become more and 
more hollowed ; but to understand what happe-ns when this manipulation is 
continued, we must here enunciate a preliminary proposition. Suppose that a 
square plate of iron, the sides of which are of the same length as the edges of 
the metallic frame, is introduced into the vessel, and that a mass of oil equal 
in volume to that which is lost by one of the faces of the cube is placed in con- 
tact with one of the faces of this plate; I say that the liquid, after having 
become extended upon the plate, will present in relief the same figure as the 

* The edges of all the frames which I used were 7 centimetres in length. 




24G THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



face of the modified cube presents in intaglio. Then, in fact, in passing from 
the hollow surface to that in relief, the radii of curvature corresponding to each 
point will only change their signs without changing in absolute value ; conse- 
quently, (§ 8,) since the condition of equilibrium is satisfied as regards the first 
of these' surfaces, it will be equally so with regard to the second. 

Now, let us imagine a plane passing through one side of the plate, and tan- 
gentially to the surface of the liquid which adheres to it at that point. As 
long as this liquid is in small quantity, we should imagine — and experiment 
bears us out — that the plane in question will be strongly inclined towards the 
plate; but if we gradually increase the quantity of liquid, the angle comprised 
between the plane and the plate will also continue to increase, and instead of 
bein"- acute, as before, will become obtuse. Now, so long as this angle is less 
than''45°, the convex surface of the liquid adhering to the plate will remain 
identical with the concave surfaces of the mass attached to the metallic frame, 
and suitably diminished ; but beyond this limit, the coexistence in the frame 
of the six hollow identical surfaces with the surface in relief becomes evidently 
impossible, for these surfaces must mutually intersect each other. Thus, when 
the withdrawal of the liquid from the mass forming the cube is continued, a 
point is attained at which the figure of equilibrium ceases to be realizable in 
accordance with the ordinary law of pressures. We then meet with a new 
verification of the principle enunciated in § 28, i. e., that the formation of 
layers commences. These layers are plane ; they commence at each of the 
wires of the frame, and connect the remainder of the mass to the latter, which 
continues to present six concave surfaces. In fact, we can. imagine that, by 
this modification of the liquid figure, the existence of the whole of this in the 
metallic frame a"-ain becomes possible, as also the equilibrium of the system ; 
for there is then no further impediment to the concave surfaces assuming that 
form which accords with the ordinary law of pressures ; 
I and, oil the other hand, in supposing the layers to be suffi- 

ciently thin, the pressure belonging to them might be 
equal to that which corresponds to these same concave sur- 
faces, (§ 25.) 

On removing still further portions of the liquid, the layer 
will continue to enlarge, whilst the full mass which oc- 
cupies the middle of the figure will diminish in volume, 
and this mass can thus be reduced to very minute dimen- 
sions : Fig. 12 represents the entire system in this latter 
state. It is even possible to make the little central mass 
disappear entirely, and thus to obtain a complete laminar 
system; but for this purpose certain precautions must be taken, which I 
shall now point out. When the central mass has become sufficiently small, 
the point of the syringe must first be thoroughly wiped ; otherwise the oil 
adheres to its exterior to a certain height, and this attraction keeps a cer- 
tain quantity of oil around it, which the instrument cannot absorb into its 
interior. In the second place, the point of the syringe must be depressed to 
such an extent that it nearly touches the inferior surface of the little mass. 
During the suction this surface is then seen to become raised, so as to touch 
the orilice of the instrument, and the latter then absorbs as much of the alco- 
holic mixture as of the oil ; but this is of no consequence, and the minute mass 
is seen to diminish by degrees, so as at last completely to disappear. The 
system, then, consists of twelve triangular layers, each of which commences at 
one of the wires of the frame, and all the summits of which unite at the centre 
of the figure; it is represented in Fig. 13. But this system is only formed 
during the action of the syringe. If, Avhen this is complete, the point of the 
instrument is slowly withdrawn, an additional lamina of a square form is seen 



D^.J2. 



^ 


\^ 


/ 




% 


x \ 


V 



•WITHDKAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



-247 



to be developed in the centre of the figure, (Fig. 14.) This, then, is the defini- 
tive laminar system to which the liquid cube is reduced by t-he gradual diminu- 
tion of its mass. 





32. In the preceding experiment, as in that of paragraph 23, the thickness 
of the layers is at first greater than that which would correspond to equilibrium. 
If, then, the system were left to itself whilst it still contains a central mass, we 
should imagine that one portion of the liquid of the layers would be slowly 
driven towards this mass, and that the layers would gradually become thinner. 
Moreover, it always happens that one or the other of the latter increases after 
some time, uudouktedly for the reason which we have already pointed out, 
(§ 26.) Hence, for the perfect success of the transformation of the cube into 
the laminar system, one precaution, which has not yet been spoken of, must be 
attended to. It consists in the circumstance that, from the instant at which 
the layers arise, the exhaustion of the liquid must be continued as quickly as 
possible until the central mass has attained a certain degree of minuteness. In 
fact, as soon as the formation of the layers commences, their tendency to 
become thinner also begins to be developed ; and if the operation is effected too 
slowly, the system might break before it was completed. When the central 
mass is sufficiently reduced — and experience soon teaches us to judge of the 
suitable point — the action of the syringe must be gradually slackened, and at 
last the other precautions which we have mentioned must be taken. 

We are able, then, to explain the rupture of the layers so long. as there is a 
large or small central mass ; but when the laminar system is complete, we do 
not at the first glance see the reason why the thickness of the layers diminishes, 
and consequently why destruction of the system takes place. Nevertheless the 
rupture ultimately takes place in this as in the other case, and the time during 
which the system persists rarely extends to half an hour. In ascertaining the 
cause of this phenomenon, it must be remarked that the intersections of the 
difiereut layers cannot occur suddenly, or be reduced to simple lines : it is 
evident that the free transition between two liquid surfaces could not be thus 
established in a discontinuous manner. These transitions must, therefore, be 
efiected through the intermedium of minute concave surfaces, and with a little 
attention we can recognize that, in fact, this really takes place. We can then 
understand that the oil of the layers ought also to be driven towards the places 
of junction of the latter ; and consequently the absence of the little central 
mass does not prevent the gradual attenuation of the layers, and the final 
destruction of the system. 

33. If, during the action of the syringe, when the system shown in Fig. 13 
has been attained, instead of slowly withdrawing the instrument, it is suddenly 
detached by a slight shake in a vertical direction, the additional layer is not 
developed ; but the little mass in Fig. 12 is seen to be reproduced very rapidly^ 
This fact confirms in a remarkable manner the explanation which we have 
given in the preceding paragraph. In fact, at the moment at which the point 
of the instrument is separated from the system, the latter may be considered 
as composed of hollow pyramids. Now it also follow^s, from causes relating to 



248 THE FIGUKES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



their continuity, that the summits of these pyramids should not constitute sim- 
ple points, but little concave surfaces. Bat as the curvatures of these minute 
surfaces are very great in every direction, they would give rise to still far less 
pressure than those which establi.sh the transitions between each pair of sur- 
faces of the layers ; for in the latter there is no curvature in one direction. 
The oil of the la^'ers will, therefore, be driven with ranch greater force towards 
the centre of the figure than towards the other parts of^ the junctions of these 
layers. Again, the twelve layers terminating in this same centre, the oil flows 
there siniultaneou:?ly from a large number of sources. 1'hese two concurrent causes 
ought then, in conformity with experiment, to produce the rapid reappearance of 
the small central mass ; and we can understand why it is impossible to obtain the 
complete sys^tem of the ])yramids otherwise than during the action of the syringe. 
34. All the other polyhedric liquids become transformed, like the cube, into 
laminar systems Avhen the mass of which they are composed is gradually 
diminished. Among these systems some are complete ; the others still contain 
very small masses, which cannot be made'to disappear entirely. Analogous 
considerations to those which we applied with regard to the cube would shdw, 
in each case, that the formation of layers commences as soon as the hollow 
surfaces which would correspond to the ordinary law of pressures cease to be 
able to coexist in the solid frame. Figs. 15, IG, 17, and 18 represent the 



Jt.jY3. 




Fn/./6 




laminar systems resulting from the triangular prism, the hexahedral prism, the 
tetrahedron and the pyramid with a square base, these systems being supposed 
to be complete. They arc all formed of ])laue layers, commencing at each of 
the metallic wires; and that of the hexahedral prism, as is "shown, contains a,n 
additional layer iu the centre of the figure. 



Fiff. 19. 



JFig. 20. 






3v.. Tlie system aiismg from the regular octohedron presents a singular 
exception, which I have not been able to explain. The layers of which this 
system is composed arc curved, and form a fantastical group, of which it is 
difficult to give an exact idea by graphic representations. Eig. 19 cxhibit,s 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 249 

them projected upon two rectangular vertical planes ; and it is seen that the 
aspects of the system observed upon tAvo adjacent sides are inverse as regards 
each other. The formation of this system presents a curious peculiarity. At 
the commencement of the operation all the faces of the octohedron become 
simultaneously hollow; the layers in progress of formation are plane, and 
arranged symmetrically, so that the system tends towards the form repi'csented 
at Fig. 20. But when a certain limit is attained, a sudden change occurs, the 
layers become curved, and the system tends to assume the singular form which 
we have mentioned. I have several times repeated the experiment, varying 
the circumstances as much as possible, and the same effects are always pro- 
duced. 

In the course of this memoir I shall point out another process for obtaining 
laminar systems ; it is an extremely simple one, and has moreover the advan- 
tage of producing all the systems in a complete state. 

36. In concluding our observations upon polyhedric liquids, I shall remark 
that the triangular prism may be employed to produce the phenomena of dis- 
persion. In this way a beautiful solar spectrum may be obtained by means of 
a prism with liquid faces. But as the effect only depends upon the excess of 
the refracting action of the oil above that of the alcoholic liquid, to obtain a 
considerably extended spectrum the angle of refraction of the prism must be 
obtuse; an angle of 110° gives a very good result. Moreover, it is evidently 
requisite that the faoes of the prism should be perfectly plane, which is obtained 
by using a carefully made frame ; by establishing exact equilibrium between 
the density of the liquids ; and, lastly, by arresting the action of the syringe 
exactly at the proper point. 



250 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 




Other figures of Revolution besides the Sphere. Liquid Cylinder. 

37. Let us now endeavor to form some new liquid figures. Those best 
adapted to tlieoretical considerations would be figures terminated by surfaces of 
revolution otber than the sphere and lenticular figures, which we have already- 
studied. Surfaces of revolution enjoy simple properties in regard to the radii 
of the greatest and least curvature at every point ; we know that one of these 
two radii is the radius of curvature of the meridional line, and that the other is 
that portion of the normal to this line which is included between the point under 
consideration and the axis of revolution. We shall now endeavor to obtain 
figui-es of this nature. 

38. Let our solid system be composed of two rings of iron 
wire, equal, parallel, and placed opposite to each other. One 
of these rings rests upon the base of the vessel by three feet 
composed of iron wire; the other is attached, by means of an 
intermediate piece, to the axis traversing the central stopper, 
so that it may be approximated to or removed from the former 
by depressing or elevating this axis.* The system formed 
by these two rings is represented in Plate VII, Fig. 20 bis; 
the diameter of those which I employed was 7 centimeters. 
After having raised the upper ring as much as possible, 
let a sphere of oil, of a slightly larger diameter than that of 
the rings, be formed, and conducted towards the lower ring 
in such a manner as to make it adhere to the entire circum- 
ference of the latter; then depress the upper ring until it 
comes into contact with the liquid mass, and the latter is uniformly attached to 
it. When the mass has thus become adherent to the system of the two rings, 
let the upper ring be slowly raised; when the two rings are 
at a proper distance ajiart, the liquid will then assume the 
form the vertical projection of which is represented in Fig. 
21, in which the lines a h and c d are the projections of the 
rings. The two portions of the surface which are respect- 
ively applied to each of the rings arc convex spherical seg- 
ments; and the portion included. between the two rings con- 
stitutes a figure of revolution, the meridional curve of which, 
as is shown, is convex externally. We shall recur, in the following series, to 
this part of the liquid figure. If we now continue gradually to raise the upper 
ring, the curvature of the two extremities and the meridional curvature of the 
intermediate portion Avill be diminished ; and if there is exact equilibrium be- 
tween the density of the oil and the surrounding liquid, the 
surface included between the two rings will be seen to assume 
a perfectly cylindrical form, (Fig. 22.) The two bases of the 
liquid figure are still convex spherical segments, but their cur- 
vature is less than in the preceding figure. If the interval 
between the rings be still further increased, it is evident that 

the surface included between them Avould lose the cylindrical 

form, and that a new figure would result. This is what 
occurs; but the consideration of the figure thus produced must be deferred. 

Instead, then, of immediately increasing the distance between the rings, let 
us commence by adding a certain quantity of oil to the mass, which will again 



J'l^.Zd. 




IY^.22. 




* In the experiments which we are now about to describe, the sliort axis represented in 
Fig. 2 of the preceding memoir, and wliich has liitherto answered our purpose, must be 
replaced by another of about 15 centimeters in length. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



251 



render the surface included between the rings convex. Let us then gradually 
elevate the upper ring, and we shall produce a cylinder of greater height than 



Mg.23. 



li^. 24. 





the first. If we repeat the same manipulation a suitable number of times, we 
shall ultimately obtain the cylinder of the greatest height which our apparatus 
permits. I have in this manner obtained a perfectly cylindrical mass 7 cen- 
timeters in diameter, and about 14 centimeters in height, (Fig. 23.) To allow 
of the cylinder of this considerable height being perfect, it is requisite that per- 
fect equality be established between the densities of the oil and the alcoholic 
liquid. As a very slight diflFerence in either direction tends to make the mass 
ascend or descend, the latter assumes, to a more or less marked extent, one of 
the two forms represented in Fig. 24. Even when the cylindric form has been 
obtained by the proper addition of alcohol of 16°, or absolute alcohol, as occa- 
sion may require, (§ 24 of the preceding memoir,) slight changes in tempera- 
ture are sufficient to alter and reproduce one of the above two forms. 

39. Let us now examine the results of these experiments in a theoretical 
point of view. First, it is evident that a cylindrical surface satisfies the general 
condition of equilibrium of liquid figures, because the curvatures in it are the 
same at every point. Moreover, such a surface being convex in every direction 
except in that of the meridional line, where there is no curvature, the pressure 
corresponding to it ought to be greater than that corresponding to a plane sur- 
face. The same conclusions are deducible from the general formulte (2) and 
(3) of paragraphs 4 and 5. In fact, as we have already stated in paragraph 37, 
one of the quantities R and R' is the radius of curvature of the meridional line, 
and the other is the portion of the normal to this line included between the 
point under consideration and the axis of revolution. Now, in the case of the 
cylinder, the meridional line being a right line, its radius of curvature is every- 
where infinitely great ; and, on the other hand, this same right line being 
parallel to the axis of revolution, that portion of the normal which constitutes 
the second radius of curvature is nothin"; more than the radius itself of the 



1 1 



dis- 



cylinder. Hence it follows that one of the terms of the quantity p , ^ 

appears, and that the other is constant ; this same quantity is, therefore, con- 
stant, and consequently the condition of equilibrium is satisfied. Now, if we 
denote by I the radius of the cylinder, the general value of the pressure for 
this surface would become 

A 1 



P + 



1 "A" 



Now A being positive because it is directed towards the interior of the liquid, 
(§ 4,) the above value is greater than P, i. e., than that which would correspond 



252 THE FIGURES OP EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

to a plane surface. It is, therefore, evident that the bases of our liquid cylinder 
must neces^sarily be convex, as is shown to be the case by experiment ; for as 
equilibrium requires that the pressures should be the same throughout the 
whole extent of the figure, these bases must produce a greater pressure than 
that which corresponds to a plane surface. 

Our plane figure, then, fully satisfies theory; but veMficatiou may be urged 
still further. 'J'heory allows us to determine with facility the radius of those 
spheres of which the bases form a part. In fact, if we represent this radius by 
X, the formula (1) of paragraph 4 will give, for the pressure corresponding to 
the spheres iu question, 

P+A.-. 

X 

Now, as this pressure must be equal to that correspondhig to the cylindrical 
surface, we shall have 

PH-|.l = P + A.l, 

2 / X 

from which we may deduce 

x = 2X. 

Thus the radius of the curvature of the spherical segments constituting the 
bases is equal to the diameter of the cylinder. 

Hence, as we know the diameter, which is the same as that of the solid 
rings, we may calculate the height of the spherical segments ; and if by any 
process we afterwards measure this height in the liquid figure, we shall thus 
have a verification of theory even as regards the numbers. "We shall now 
investigate this subject. 

40. If we imagine the liquid figure to be intersected by a meridional plane, 
the section of each of the segments will be an arc belonging to a circle, the 
radius of which will be equal to 2A, according to what we have already stated, 
and the versed sine of half this arc will be the height of the segment. If we 
suppose the metallic filaments forming the rings to be infinitely small, so that 
each of the segments rests upon the exact circumference of the cylinder, the 
chord of the above arc will also be equal to 2X ; and if we denote the height of 
the segments by h, we shall have 

7i = ,l(2-A/3) = 0.268.>l. 

Now, the exact external diameter of my rings, or the value of 2A, correspond- 
ing with my experiments, was 71.4 millimeters, which gives 7^ = 9.57 millime- 
ters. But as the metallic wires have a certain thickness, and the segments do 
not rest upon the external circumference of the rings, it follows that the chord 
of the meridional arc is a little less than 2A, and that, consequently, the true 
theoi-etical height of the segments is a little less than that given by the pre- 
ceding Ibrmuhu To determine it exactly, let us denote the chord by 2c, which 
will give 

A = 2/1 -a/ 4/2 -c2. 

Now, let us remark that the meridional plane intersects each of the rings in 
two small circles to Avhich the meridional arc pf the spherical segment is tan- 
gential, and upon each of wdiich the chord of tliis arc intercepts a small circular 
segment. The meridional arc being tangential to the sections of the wire, it 
follows that the above small circular segments arc similar to that of the spheri- 
cal segment ; and as the chord of the latter differs but very slightly from the 
radius of the circle to which the are belongs, the chords of the sijiall circular 
segments may be considered as equal to the radius of the small sections, which 
radius we shall denote by r. It is moreover evident that the excess of the ex- 
ternal radius of the ring over half the chord c is nothinj? more than the excess 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 253 

of the radius r over half the chord of the small circular segments, which half 
chord, in accordance with what we have stated, is equal to ~r. Thence we 

get A — c = ^, whence c = ,i — —r, and we have only to substitute this value 
in the preceding formula to obtain the true theoretical value of h. The thick- 
ness of the wire forming my rings is 0.74 millimeters ; hence — r = 0.18 milli- 
meters, which gives as the true theoretical height of the segments under these 
circumstances, • 

7i = 9.46 millimeters. 
I may remark that it is difficult to distinguish in the liquid figure the precise 
limit of the segments, i. c, the circumferences of contact of their surfaces with 
those of the rings. To get rid of this inconvenience, I measured the height of 
the segments, commencing only at the external planes of the rings; i. c, in the 
case of each segment, commencing at a plane perpendicular to the axis of revo- 
lution, and resting upon the surface of the ring on that side which is opposite 
the summit of the segment. The quantity thus measured is evidently equal to 
the total height minus the versed sine of the small circular segments which we 
have considered above ; consequently these small circular segments being simi- 
lar to that of the spherical segment, we obtain for the determination of this 

versed sine, which we shall denote by^i the proportion — = — , which in the 

—r 
2 

case of our liquid figure gives f=0.Q5 millimeters, whence 

h — y=: 9.41 millimeters. 
This, then, is definitively the theoretical value of the quantity which was required 
to be measured. 

41. Before pointing out the process which I employed for this purpose, and 
communicating the result of the operation, I must preface a few important 
remarks. If the densities of the alcoholic mixture and of the oil are not rigor- 
ously equal, the mass has a slight tendency to rise or descend, and the height 
of one of the segments is then a little too great, whilst that of the other is a 
little too small ; but we can understand that if their difference is very small, an 
exact result may still be obtained by taking the mean of these two heights. 
We thus avoid part of those joreliminary experiments which the establishment 
of perfect equality between the two densities requires. But one' circumstance 
which requires the greatest attention is the perfect homogeneity of each of the 
two liquids. If this condition be not fulfilled with regard to the alcoholic mix- 
ture, i. e., if the upper part of this mixture be left containing a slightly greater 
proportion of alcohol than the lower portion, the liquid figure may appear 
regular and present equal segments ; all that is required for this is, that the 
mean density of that part of the mixture, Avhich is at the same level as the 
mass, must be equal to the density of the oil ; but imder these circumstances 
the level of the two segments is too low. In foct, the oil forming the upper 
segment is then in contact with a less dense liquid than itself, and, conse- 
quently, has a tendency to descend, whilst the opposite applies to the oil form- 
ing the inferior segment.* Heterogeneity of the liquid produces an opposite 
efiect, i. e., it renders the height of the segments too great. In fret, the least 
.dense portions rising to the upper part of the mass tend to lift it up, whilst the 
most dense portions descend to the lower part, and tend to depress it. Now, 

* By intentionally producing very great heterogeneity in the alcoholic mixture, (§ 9 of the 
preceding memoir,) and employing suitable precautions, a perfectly regular cylinder may be 
formed, the bases of which are absolutely plane. 



254 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

the quantities of pure alcohol, aucl that at 16° added to the alcoholic mixture 
• to balance the mass, necessarily produce an alteration in the homogeneity of 
the oil ; for, in the first place, the oil during these operations being in contact 
with mixtures which are sometimes more, sometimes less charged with alcohol, 
must absorb or lose some of this by its surface; in the second place, these same 
additions of alcohol to the mixture diminish the saturation of the latter with 
the oil, so that it removes some of it from the mass; and this action is undoubt- 
edly not equally exerted upon the two principles of which the oil is composed. 
Uence, before taking the measures, the different parts of the oil must be inti- 
mately mixed together, which may be effected by introducing an iron spatula 
iuto the mass, moving it about in it in all directioift, and this for a long time, 
because the mixture of the oil can only be perfectly effected with great diffi- 
culty on account of its viscidity. 

To avoid the influence of the reactions which render the oil heterogeneous, 
the operations must be conducted in the following manner : The mass being 
introduced into the vessel and attached to the two rings, and the equality of 
the densities being perfectly established, allow the mass to remain in the alco- 
holic liquid for two or three days, re-establishing from time to time the equi- 
librium of the densities altered by the chemical reactions and the variations of 
temijerature. Afterwards remove the two rings from the vessel, so that the 
mass remains free; remove almost the whole of this, by means of a siphon, into 
a bottle, which is to be carefully corked ; withdraw with the syringe the small 
portion of oil which is left in the vessel, and reject this portion. Next replace 
the two rings, and mix the alcoholic liquid perfectly ; then again introduce the 
oil into the vessel, taking the precaution of enveloping the bottle containing it 
with a cloth several times folded, so that the temperature may not be sensibly 
altered by the heat of the hand.* Then attach the mass to the lower ring only, 
the upper ring being raised as much as possible ; mix the oil intimately, as we 
have said above ; then de^jress the upper ring, cause the mass to adhere to it, 
elevate it so as to form an exact cylinder, and proceed immediately to the 
measurement. 

* The followiug is the reason why the oil must be removed from the vessel before employ- 
ing it for the experiment. After having remained a considerable time in the alcoholic liquid, 
the oil becomes enveloped by a kind of thin pellicle ; or, more strictly speaking, the super- 
ficial layer of the mass has lost part of its liquidity, an effect which undoubtedly arises from 
the unequal action of the alcohol, upon the principles of which the oil is composed. The 
necessary result of this is, that the mass loses at the same time part of its tendency to assume 
a determinate figure of equilibrium, which tendency must, therefore, be completely restored 
to it. This is why the oil is withdrawn by the siphon. In fact, the pellicle docs not pene- 
trate the interior of the latter, and during its contraction continues to envelop the small por- 
tion remaining; so that after the latter has been removed by the syringe, which ultimately 
absorbs the pellicle itself, we get completely rid of the latter. 

Before using the siphon, the thickness and consistence of the pellicle are too slight to 
enable us distinctly to perceive its presence; but when the operation of the siphon is nearly 
terminated, and the mass is thus considerably reduced, we find that the surface of the latter 
forms folds, hence implying the existence of an envelope. Moreover, when the siphon is 
removed, the small residuary mass, which then remains freely suspended in the alcoholic 
liquid, no longer assumes a spherical form, but retains an irregular aspect, appearing to 
have no tendency to assume any regular form. 

This indifference to assume figures of cqtiilibrium, arising from a diminution in the 
liciuidity of the superficial layer, constitutes a new and curious proof of the fundamental 
])rinciplc relating to this layer, (H (i I/is and 10 to JG.) M. Ilageu {Mcmoirc sur la Surface 
tics Liquidcs, in the Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin, ]84r>) has observed a remarkable 
fact, to which the jjrecediug appears to be related. It consists in this, that the surface of 
water, left to itself lor some time, undergoes a peculiar modification, in consequence of which 
the water then rises in capillary S|nices to elevations which are very distinctly less than is 
the case when its surliice is exeinpt or freed from this alteration. This fact might, perhaps, ' 
be explained Ijy admitting that tlw water dissolves a small proportion of the substance of the 
solid witii which it is in contact, and that the external air acts cliemically at the surface of 
the liquitl upon the substance dissolved, thus giving rise to the formation of a slight pellicle 
which modilies the eflects of the molecular forces. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 255 

42. The instrument best suited for effecting the latter operations in an exact 
manner is undoubtedly that which has received the name of cathctomctcr, and 
which, as is well known, consists of a horizontal telescope moving along a ver- 
tical divided rule. The distance comprised between the summits of the two 
segments is first measured by the aid of this instrument ; the distance included 
between the external planes of the two rings (§ 40 ) is then measured by the 
same means. The difference between the first and the second result evidently 
gives the sum of the two heights, the mean of which must be taken ; and, con- 
sequently, this mean, or the quantity sought, h — f, is equal to half the differ- 
ence in question. 

The determination of the distance between the external planes of the rings 
requires peculiar precautions. First, as the points of the rings at which we 
must look are not exactly at the external surface of the figure, the oil inter- 
posed between these points and the eye must produce some effects of refraction, 
which would introduce a slight error into the value obtained. To avoid this 
inconvenience, we need only expose the rings by allowing the liquids, to escape 
from the vessel by the stop-cock, (note 2 to § 9,) then remove the minute portions 
of the liquid Avhich remain adherent to the rings by passing lightly over their 
surface a small strip of paper, which must be introduced into the vessel through 
the second aperture. The drops of alcoholic liquid remaining attached to the 
inner surface of the interior side of the vessel must also be absorbed in the 
same manner. In the second place, as it would be difficiilt for the rings to be 
rigorously parallel, their distance must be measured from two opposite sides 
of the system, and the mean of the two valves thus found taken. The follow- 
ing are the results which I obtained : The mensuration of the distance between 
the summits gave first, in four successive operations, the values 76.77, 76.80, 
76.85, and 76.75 milli:neters, the mean of which is 76.79 millimeters. But after 
the alcoholic liquid had been again agitated for some time, to render its homo- 
geneity more certain, two new measurements taken immediately afterwards 
gave 77.05 and 77.00 millimeters, or a mean of 77.02 millimeters. The distance 
between the external planes of the rings was found, on the one hand, by two 
observations, which agreed exactly, to be 57.73 millimeters ; on the other hand, 
two observations furnished the values 57.87 and 57.85 millimeters, or as the 
mean 57.86 millimeters. Taking, then, the mean of these two results, we get 
57.79 millimeters as the value of the distance between the centres of the ex- 
ternal planes. Hence, if we assume the first of the two values obtained for the 
distance of the summits, 76.79 millimeters, we find 

^ 76.79 — 57.79 ^_ .,,. 
h — f^^ ^ = 9.50 millimeters ; 

and if from the second result, 77.02 millimeters, we find 

^ 77.02 — 57.79 
h — j = 2 ^ = 9.61 millimeters. 

These two elevations evidently differ but little from 9.41 millimeters, the 
altitude deduced from theory, (§ 40;) in the first case the difference does not 
amount to the y^uth part of this theoretical value, and in the second it hardly 
exceeds ^^^ths. These differences undoubtedly arise from slight remains of 
heterogeneity in the liquids ; it is probable that in the first case neither of the 
two liquids was absolutely homogeneous, and that the two contrary effects 
which thence resulted (§ 41) partly neutralized each other, whilst in the second 
case, the alcoholic liquid being rendered perfectly homogeneous, the effect of the 
plight heterogeneity of the oil exerted its full influence. However this may be, these 
differences in each case are so small that we may consider experiment as in accord- 
ance with theory, of which it evidently presents a very remarkable confirmation. 

43. Mathematically considered, a cylindrical surface extends indefinitely in 
the direction of the axis of revolution. Hence it folloM's that the cylinder 



256 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

iiicludc'il between the two rings constitutes one portion only of the complete 
figure of equilibrium. Hence also, if tbe liquid muss were free, it could not 
assume the cylindrical form as the figure of equilibrium; for the volume of this 
mass being limited, it would be necessary that the cylinder should be termi- 
nated on bolh sides by portions of the surface presenting other curvatures, which 
would not admit of the law of continuity. But this heterogeneity of curvature, 
which is impossible when the mass is free, becomes realizable, as our experi- 
ments show, through the medium of solid rings. As each of these renders the 
curvatures of the portions of the surface resting upon it (§ 20) independent of 
each other, the surface comprised betAveen the two rings may then be of cylin- 
drical curvature, whilst the two bases of the figure may present spherical 
curvatures. We therefore arrive at the very remarkable result, that with a 
liquid mass of a limited volume we may obtain isolated portions of figures of 
equilibrium, which in their complete state would be extended indefinitely. 

44. With the vieAV of obtaining a cylinder iir which the proportion between 
the height and the diameter was still greater than that in Fig. 23, I replaced 
the rings previously employed by two others, the diameter of which was only 
2 centimeters. I first tried to make a cylinder 6 centimeters in height, i. e., the 
height of which was thrice the diameter; and in this operation I adopted a 
slightly difierent process from that of paragraph 38. The uniformity in the 
density of the two liquids being accurately established, I first gave the mass of 
oil a somcAvhat larger volume than that which the cylinder would contain; 
having then attached the mass to the two rings, I elevated the upper ring until 
it was at a distance of G centimeters from the other; this distance was measured 
by a scale introduced into the vessel and kept in a vertical position by the side 
of the liquid figure. In consequence of the excess of oil, the meridional line of 
the figure Avas convex externally ; and as there was still q, slight diflerence 
between the densities, this convexity was not symmetrical in regard to the two 
rings. I corrected this irregularity by successive additions of pure alcohol 
and alcohol of 16°, an operation which requires great circumspection, and 
towards the end of Avhich these liquids could only be added in single 
_/jy. £S. drops. The figure being at last perfectly symmetrical, 1 carefully re- 
moved the excess of oil by applying the point of the syringe to a point 
at the equator of the mass, and in this manner I obtained a pei-fect 
cylinder. Subsequently, after having added some oil to the mass, I 
increased the distance between the rings until it Avas equal to 8 centi- 
meters, i. e., to four times their diameter. The oil Avas in sufficient 
quantity to alloAv of the meridional line of the figure being convex ex- 
t(;rnally ; but the curvature Avas not perfectly symmetrical, and I en- 
countered still greater difficulties in regulating it than in the preceding 
case. The defect in the symmetry being ultimately corrected, the meri- 
dional convexity presented a versed sine of about 3 millimeters, (Fig. 25.) 
I then proceeded to the removal of the excess of oil; but before the versed sine 
was reduced to 2 millimeters, the figure appeared to have a tendency to become 
thin at its loAver part and to swell out at the upper part, as if the oil 
/^. 2ff. had suddenly become slightly increased in density. At this moment I 
\yithdrcw the syringe, so as to be enabled to observe the effect in ques- 
tion better; the change in form then became more and more pronounced; 
the loAver part of the figure soon presented a true strangulation, the 
neck of Avhich AA-as situated nearly at a fourth part of the distance be- 
tween the rings, (Fig. 2G;) the constricted portion continued to narroAv 
gradually, Avhilst the upper part of the figure became saa'oIIcu ; finally, 
the liquid separated into tAvo unequal masses, Avliich remained respcct- 
iA-ely adherent to the tAvo rings; the upper mass formed a complete 
sphere, and the loAver mass a doubly convex lens. The Avhole of these 
phenomena lasted a very short time only. 





WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITy. 257 

"With a view to determiue whether any particular cause had in reality pro- 
duced the alteration of the densities, I approximated the rings; then, afrci 
having reunited the two liquid masses, 1 again carefully raised the upper ring, 
ceasing at the height of 7 J centimeters, so that the versed sine of the meridional 
convexity was slightly greater than when this was 8 centimeters. The figure 
was then found to be perfectly symmetrical, and it did not exhibit any tendency 
to deformity; whence it follows that the uniformity in the densities had not 
experienced any appreciable alteration. I recommenced, with still more care, 
the experiment with that figure which was S centimeters in height ; and I waa 
enabled to approach the cylindrical form still more nearly ; but before it was 
attained, the same phenomena again presented themselves, except that the 
alteration in form was effected in an inverted manner, i. e., the figure became 
narrow at the upper part and dilated at the base ; so that after the separation 
into two masses, the perfect sphere existed in the lower ring and the lens in the 
upper ring. On subsequently uniting, as before, the two masses, and placing 
the rings at a distance of 7 J centimeters apart, the figure was again obtained in 
a regular and permanent form. Thus when we try to obtain between two solid 
rings a liquid cylinder the height of which is four times the diameter, the figure 
always breaks up spontaneously, without any apparent cause, even before it 
has attained the exactly cylindrical form. Now as the .cylinder is necessarily a 
figure of equilibrium, whatever may be the proportion of the height to the 
diameter, we must conclude that the equilibrium of a cylinder the height of 
Avhich is four times the diameter is unstable. As the shorter cylinders which I 
had obtained did not present analogous effects, I was anxious to satisfy myself 
whether the cylinders were really stable. I therefore again formed a cylinder 
6 centimeters in height with the same rings ; but this, when left to itself for a 
full half hour, presented a trace only of alteration in form, and this trace ap- 
peared about a quarter of an hour after the formation of the cylinder, and did 
not subsequently increase, which shows that it was due to some slight accidental 
cause. 

The above fiicts lead us then to the following conclusions : 1st, that the cyl- 
inder constitutes a figure the equilibrium of which is stable when the proportion 
between its height and its diameter is equal to 3, and with still greater reason 
when this proportion is less than 3 ; 2d, the cylinder constitutes a figure the 
equilibrium of which is unstable when the proportion of its height to its diameter 
is equal to 4, and with still greater reason when it exceeds 4; 3d, consequently 
there exists an intermediate relation, which corresponds to the passage from 
stability to instability. We shall denominate this latter proportion the limit of 
the stability of the cylinder. 

45. These conclusions, however, are liable to a well-founded objection. Our 
liquid figure is complex, because its entire surface' is composed of a cylindrical 
portion and of two portions which present a spherical curvature. Now we can- 
not affirm that these latter portions exert no influence upon the stability or the 
instability of the intermediate portion, and consequently upon the value of the 
proportion which constitutes the limit between these two states. To allow of 
the preceding conclusions being rigorously applicable to the cylinder, it would 
be requisite that the figure should present no other free surface than the cylin- 
drical surface, which is easily managed by replacing the rings by entire disks. 
I effected this substitution by employing disks of the same diameter as the pre- 
ceding rings, but the results were not changed; the cylinder, G centimeters in 
height, was well formed, and was found to be stable; whilst the figure 8 centi- 
meters ill height began to change before becoming perfectly cylindrical, and was 
rapidly destroyed. The final result of this destruction did not, however, consist, 
as in the case of the rings, of a perfect sphere and a double convex lens, hut, 
as evidently ought to have been the case, of two unequal portions of spheres, 
17 s , 



258 THE FIGURES OP EQUILIBEIITM OF A LIQUID MASS 

respectively adlieront to the two opposite solid surfaces. The limit of the 
stability of the cylinder, therefore, really lies between 3 and 4. 

The experiments which we have just related are very delicate, and i-equire 
some skill. In this, as in all other cases of measurements, the oil must be 
allowed to remain in the alcoholic mixture for two or three days, then the pel- 
licle must be removed from it, (note to p. 254;) afterAvards, when the mass, 
after having been again introduced into the vessel, has been attached to the two 
solid disks, some time must be allowed to elapse in order that the two liquids 
may be exactly at the same temperature ; moreover, it must be understood that 
the experiments should be made in an apartment the temperature of which 
remains as constant as possible. Lastly, it is scarcely necessary to add, that 
when the alcoholic liquid is mixed, after having added small quantities of pure 
alcohol or alcohol at 16°, the movements of the spatula should be very slow, so 
as to avoid the communication of too much agitation to the mass of oil ; we are 
even sometimes compelled momentarily to depress the upper disk, so as to give 
greater stability to the mass, and thus to prevent the movements in question from 
producing the disunion. 

4G. It might be asked whether the want of symmetry, which -3 constantly 
seen in the spontaneous modification of the above unstable figures, is the result 
of a laAv which governs these figures ; or whether it simply arises, as we should 
be led to believe at first sight, from imperceptible differences still existing be- 
tween the densities of the two liquids, which differences acting upon unstable figures 
might produce this want of symmetry, notwithstanding their extreme minuteness 
After having concluded the preceding experiments, I imagined that to solve 
the question in point, all that would be requisite would be to arrange matters so 
that the axis of the figure, instead of being vertical, as in the above experiments, 
should have a horizontal direction. In ftict, in the latter case, the slightest 
difference between the densities ought to haA'e the effect of slightly curving the 
figure, but evidently cannot give the liquid any tendency to move in greater 
quantity tOAvards one extremity of the figure than the other ; whence it folloAvs, 
that if the spontaneous alteration of the figure still occurs unsymmetrically, 
this can only be OAving to a peculiar law. 

On the other hand, if the figure really tends of itself to change its form un- 
symmetrically, it is clear that, in the case of the vertical position of the axis, 
the effect of a trace of difference betAveen the densities ought to concur with that 
of the instability, and thus to accelerate the moment at which the figure com- 
mences to alter spontaneously. Consequently, on avoiding this extraneous 
cause by the horizontal direction of the axis of the figure, we may hope to 
approximate more nearly to the cylindrical form, or even to attain it exactly; 
we can, moreover, understand that the difficulty in the operations will be found 
to be considerably diminished. 

I therefore constructed a solid system, presenting two vertical disks of the 

same diameter, placed parallel Avith each 
other, at the same height, and opposite 
each other. Each of these disks is sup- 
ported by an iron wire fixed normally 
to its centre, then bent A^ertically doAvn- 
"wards, and the lower extremities of 
these two Avires are attached to a hori- 
zontal axis furnished Avith four small 
feet. This system is represented in 
perspective in Fig. 27. The diameter 
of the disks is 30 millimeters, but the 
distance Avhich separates them is not 
four times this diameter. I thought that 
by approximating the figure more to the limit of stability, the operations 




WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 259 

would require still less trouble ; the distance in question is only 108 millime- 
ters, so that the relation between the length and the diameter of the liquid 
cylinder which would extend between the two disks would be equal to 3.6. 

We shall now detail the results obtained by the employment of this system. 
In the first place, the operations were much more easily performed.* In the 
second place, the figure still bad a tendency to deformity before it had been 
rendered perfectly cylindrical ; but this tendency always exhibited itself uusym- 
metrically, as in the vertical figures ; from which circumstance alone we m<ght 
conclude that the unsymmetrical nature of the phenomenon is not occasioned by 
a difference between the densities of the two liquids. In the third place, by a 
little management, I have pursued the experiment further, and succeeded in 
forming an exact cylinder.! This lasted for a moment; it then began to bo 
narrowed at one part of its length, becoming dilated at the other, like the verti- 
cal figures; and the phenomenon of disunion was completed in the same manner, 
giving rise ultimately to two masses of difierent volumes. 

I repeated the experiment several times, and always with the same results, 
except that the separation occurred sometimes on . one, sometimes on the other 
side of the middle of the length of the figure. However, although the phe- 
nomenon is produced in an unsymmetrical manner with regard to the middle of 
the length of the figure, whether horizontal or vertical, on the contrary there is 
always symmetry with regard to the axis; in other words, throughout the dura- 
tion of the phenomenon the figure remains constantly a figure of revolution. 
We may add here, that in the horizontal figure the respective lengths of the 
constricted and dilated portions appear to be equal ; we shall show, in the fol- 
lowing series, that this equality is rigorously exact, at least at the commencement 
of the phenomenon. 

It is now evident that the alteration in the form of these cylinders is really 
the result of a property which is inherent in them. We shall hereafter deduce 
this property as a necessary consequence of the laws which govern a more 
general phenomenon. 

It moreover results from the above experiment that the proportion 3.6 is still 
greater than the limit of stability, so that the exact value of the latter must lie 
between the numbers 3 and 3.6. It is obvious that this method of experiment 
might be employed to obtain a closely approximative determination of the value 
in question ; I propose doing this hereafter, and I shall give an account of the 
result in the following series, when I shall have to return to the question of the 
limit of stability of the cylinder. 

47. In the unstable cylinders which we have just formed, the proportion of 
the length to the diameter was inconsiderable; but what -stould be the case if we 
were to obtain cylinders of great length relatively to their diameter? Now, 
under certain circumstances, figures of this kind, more or less exactly cylindri- 
cal, may be realized, and we shall proceed to see what the results of the spon- 
taneous rupture of equilibriury are. 

* The two disks in this solid system being placed at an invariable distance from each 
other, it is necessary, in making a mass of oil, the volume of which is not too great, adhere 
to them, to employ an extra piece consisting of a rlDg of iron wire of the same diameter as 
the disks, supported by a straight wire of the same metal, the free extremity of which is held 
in the hand. By means of this ring the mass, which has been previously attached to one of 
the disks, is drawn out until it is equally attached to the other; tho ring is then reaioved. 
The latter removes a small portion of the nfass at the same time ; but on leaving the vessel it 
leaves this portion in the alcoholic liquid. It is then removed by means of the syringe. 

t To effect this the following proceeding must be adopted for the removal of the excess of 
oil. The operation is at first carried on with a suitable rapidity until the figure begins to 
alter in form ; the end of the point of the syringe is then drawn gently along the upper part 
of the mass, proceeding from the thickest to the other portion. This slight action is sutBciont 
to move a minute quantity ot oil towards the latter, and thus to re-establish the symmetry 
of the figure ; a new absorption is then made, the figure again regulated, and these proceed- 
ings are continued until the exactly cylindrical form is attained. 



2C0 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM Q¥ A LIQUID MASS 

A f;ict which I described in paragraph 20 of the preceding memoir, and which 
I shall now describe more in detail, aflords us the means of obtaining a cylinder 
of this kind, and of observing its spontaneous destruction. Wheii some oil is 
introduced by means of a small funnel into an alcoholic mixture containing a 
slight excess of alcohol, and the oil is poured in sufficiently quick to keep the 
funnel full, the liquid forms, between thi; point of the funnel and the bottom of 
the vessel where the mass collects, a long train, the diameter of which continues 
tO|increase slightly from the upper to the lower part, so as to form a kind of 
very elongated cone, which does not differ much from a cylinder* This nearly 
cylindrical figure, the heightof which is considerable in proportion to the diameter, 
remains without undergoing any perceptible alteration so long as the oil of which 
it consists has sufficient rajjidity of transference ; but when the oil is no longer 
poured into the funnel, and consequently the motion of transference is retarded, 
the cylinder is soon seen to resolve itself rapidly into a series of spheres, which 
are perfectly equal in diameter, equally distributed, and with their centres 
arranged upon the right Hue forming the axis of the cylinder. 

To obtain perfect success, the elements of the experiment should be in certain 
proportions. The orifice of the funnel which 1 used was about 3 millimeters in 
diameter, and 11 centimeters in height. It rested upon the neck of a largo 
bottle containing the alcoholic mixture, and its orifice was plunged a few milli- 
meters only beneath the surface of the liquid. Lastly, the length of the cylinder 
of oil, or the distance between the orifice and the lower mass, was nearly 20 
centimeters. Under these circumstances, three spheres were constantly formed, 
the upper of which remained adherent to the point of the funnel; the latter was 
therefore incomplete. We may add, that the excess of alcohol contained in the 
mixture should neither be too great nor too small ; the proper quantity is found 
by means of a few preliminary trials. 

48. The constancy and regularity of the result of this experiment complete 
then the proof that the phenomena to which the spontaneous rupture of equilib- 
rium of an luistable liquid cylinder gives rise are governed by determinate laws. 

In this same experiment, the transformation ensues too rapidly to allow of its 
phases being well observed ; but the phenomena presented to us by larger and 
less elongated cylinders, i. e., the formation of a dilatation and constriction in 
juxtaposition, and equal or nearly so in length, the gradual increase in thickness 
of the dilated portion and the simultaneous narrowing of the constricted portion, 
&c., authorize us to conclude that in the case of a cylinder the length of which 
is considerable in proportion to the diameter, the following order of things takes 
place : the figure becomes at first so modified as to present a regular and uniform 
succession of dilated portions, separated by constricted portions of the same 
length as the former, or nearly so. This alteration, the indications of which 
are very slight, gradually becomes more and more marked, the constricted por- 
tions gradually becoming narrower, whilst the dilated portions increase in thick- 
ness, the figure remaining a figure of revolution ; at last the constrictions break, 
and each of the various parts of the figure, which are thus completely isolated 
from each other, acquire the spherical form. We must add, that the termination 
of the phenomenon is accompanied by a remarkable peculiarity, of which we 
have not yet spoken ; but as it only constitutes, so to speak, an accessory por- 
tion of the general phenomenon, we shall transfer the description of it to a 
subsequent part of this memoir, (see § 62.) 

41). It might be asked why, in the experiment which we have last described, 
the cylinder is only resolved into spheres when the rapidity of the transference 
of liquid of which it is composed is diminished. In fact, we cannot understand 
how a motion of transference could give stability to a liquid figure which in a 

* Tlic slight increase in diameter depends upon the retardation which the resistance of the 
surrounding liquid occasions in the movemcut of the oil. 






WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 261 

state nf repose was unstable. lu explaining this apparent peculiarity, we must 
remark that, as the spontaneous transformation of an unstable cylinder is effected 
under the action of continued forces, the rapidity with which the phenomenon 
occurs ought to be accelerated ; this may be, moreover, easily verified in experi- 
ments relating to larger and less elongated cylinders ; this same rapidity ought, 
therefore, always to be very minute at the commencement of the phenomenon. 
Now, in the case in question, as the changes in figure occur in the liquid of the 
cylinder whilst this liquid is animated by a movement of transference, it is 
evident, from A\'hat we have stated, that if this movement of transference is 
sufficiently rapid, the changes of form could only acquire a very slightly marked 
development during the passage of the point of the funnel to th(! mass accumu- 
lated at the bottom of the vessel ; so that, the liquid being continually renewed, 
there will be no time for any alte>ration in form to become very perceptible to 
the eye. Hence, so long as the rapidity of the flow is sufficiently gn-at, the 
liquid figure will appear to retain its almost cylindrical form, although its length 
is considerable in comparison with its diameter. On the other hand, when the 
velocity of the transference is sufficiently small, there will be time for the 
alterations in form to take place in a perfect manner, and we shall be able to 
see the cylinder resolve itself into spheres throughout the whole of its length. 

50. We shall now describe another method of experimenting, which allows 
us to observe the result of the transformation under less restrained and more 
^regular conditions in some respects than those of the preceding experiment, and 
which will, moreover, lead us to new consequences as regards the laws of the 
phenomenon. We shall first succinctly describe the apparatus and the opera- 
tions, and afterwards add the necessary details. 

The principal parts of which the apparatus consists are : 1st, a rectangular 
plate of plate-glass, 25 centimeters in length, and 20 in breadth; 2d, two strips 
of the same glass, 13 centimeters in length, and fr millimeters in thickness, 
perfectly prepared and polished at the edges ; 3d, two ends of copper wire, 
about 1 millimeter in thickness, and 5 centimeters in length; these wires should 
be perfectly straight, and one extremity of each of them should be cut very 
accurately, then carefully amalgamated. The plate being placed horizontally, 
the two strips are laid tiat upon its surface and parallel with its long sides, so 
as to leave an interval of about a centimeter between them ; the two copper 
wires are then introduced into this, placing them in a right line in the direction 
of the length of the strips, and in such a manner that the amalgamated extremi- 
ties are opposite to, and a few centimeters distant from, each other. A globule 
of very pure mercury, from 5 to 6 centimeters in diameter, is next placed be- 
tween the same extremities ; the two strips of glass are then approximated 
until they touch the wires, so as only to leave between them an interval equal 
in width to the diameter of these wires. The little mass of mercury, being 
thus compressed laterally, necessarily becomes elongated, and extends on both 
sides towards the amalgamated surfaces. If it does not reach them, the wires 
are made to slide towards them until contact and adhesion are established. 
The wires are then moved in opposite directions, so as to separate them from 
each other, which again produces elongation of the little liquid mass and dimi- 
nution of its vertical dimensions. By proceeding carefully, and accompanying 
the operation with slight blows given with the finger upon the apparatus to 
facilitate the movements of the mercury, we succeed in extending the little 
mass until its vertical thickness is every where equal to its horizontal thickness, 
*'. e., to that of the copper wires. Thus the mercury forms a liquid wire of the 
same diameter as the solid wires to which it is attached, and from 8 to 10 cen- 
timeters in length. This wire, considering the small size of its diameter, which 
renders the action of gravitation insensible in comparison with that of molecular 
attraction, may be considered as exactly cylindrical; so that in this manner we 
obtain a liquid cylinder, the length of which is from 80 to 100 times its diame- 



262 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

ter, and attached by its extremities to solid parts, which cylinder preserves its 
form so lonp: as it rcmaius imprisoned between the strips of glass. Weights are 
next jilaccd upon the parts of the two copper wires which project beyond the 
extremities of the bands, so as to maintain these wires in hrm positions; lastly, 
by means which we shall point out presently, the two strips of glass are raised 
vertically. At the same instant, the liquid cylinder, being liberated from its 
shackles, becomes transformed into a numerous series of isolated spheres, ar- 
ranged in a straight line in the direction of the cylinder from which they origi- 
nated.* Ordinarily the regularity of the system of spheres thus obtained is 
not perfect ; the spheres present diflerences in their respective diameters and in 
the distances which separate them; this undoubtedly arises from slight acci- 
dental causes, dependent u])on the method of operation ; but the differences are 
sometimes so small that the regularity may be considered as perfect. As 
regards the number of spheres corresponding to a cylinder of determinate 
length, it varies in different experiments ; but these variations, which are also 
due to slight accidental causes, are comprised within very small limits. 

51. Let us now complete the description of the apparatus, and add some 
details regarding the operations. As the plate of glass requires to be placed in 
a perfectly horizontal position, it is supported for this purpose upon four feet 
with screws. A small transverse strip of thin paper is glued to each of the 
extremities of the lower surface of the strips of glass, in such a manner that the 
strips of glass resting upon the plate through the medium of these small pieces, 
of paper, their lower surface is not in contact with the surface of the plate. 
Without this precaution, the strips of glass might contract a certain adhesion to 
the plate, which would introduce t^n obstacle when the strips are raised vertically. 
Moreover, the latter are furnished, on their upper surface and at a distance of 6 
millimeters from each of their extremities, with a small screw placed vertically 
in the glass with the point upwards, firmly fixed to it with mastic, and rising 8 
millimeters above its surface. These four screws are for the purpose of receiving 
the nuts which fix the strips to the system by means of Avhich they arc elevated. 
This system is made of iron ; it consists, in the first place, of two rectangular 
plates, 55 millimeters in length, 12 in breadth, and 3 in thickness. Each of 
them is pierced, perpendicularly to its large surfaces, by two holes, so situated, 
that on placing each of these plates transversely upon the extremities of the two 
strips of glass, the screws with which the latter are furnished fit into these four 
holes. The screws being long enough to project above the holes, nuts may 
then be adapted to them, so that on screwing them the strips of glass become 
fixed in an invariable; position with regard to each otliQr. The holes are of an 
elongated form in the direction of the length of the iron plates ; hence, after 
having loosened the nuts, the distance between the two strips of glass may be 
increased or diminished without the necessity of removing the plates. A vertical 
axis, 5 centimeters in height, is implanted upon the middle of the upper surface 
of each of the plates ; and the upper extremities of these two axes are connected 
by a horizontal axis, at the middle of which a third vertical axis commences ; 
this is directed upwards, and is 15 centimeters in length. The section of the 
latter axis is square, and it is 5 millimeters in thickness. When the nuts are 
screwed up, it is evident that the strips of glass, the iron plates, and the kind 
of fork which connects them, constitute an invariable system. The long vertical 
axis serves to direct the movement of this system ; with this view, it passes 
with very slight fiiction through an aperture of the same section as itself, and 
5 centimt.'ters in length, i)ierccd in a piece which is fixed very firmly by a suitable 
support 10 centimeters above the plate of glass. Lastly, the perforated piece 
is provided laterally Avith a thumb-screw, which allows the axis to he screwed 



* Wc may remark that tlic conversion of a iiietallic wire into globules by the cloctiic dis- 
charge must undoubtedly be referred to the same order of phenomena. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 263 

into the tube. By this arrangement, if all parts of the apparatus have beeu 
carefully fiuishcil, when once the little nuts have been screwed up, the two 
strips of glass can only move simultaneously in a par-allel direction to each 
other, and always identically in the same direction perpendicular to the plate 
of glass. When the liquid cylinder is well formed, and the weights are placed 
upon the free portions of the copper wires, the linger is passed under the hori- 
zontal branch of the fork, and the movable system is raised to a suitable dis- 
t:iuce above the plate of glass; it is then maintained at this height by means 
of the thumb-screw, so as to allow the result of the transformatiou of the cylin- 
der to be observed. As the amalgamation of the copper wires always extends 
slightly upon then- convex surface, the latter is coated with varnish, so that 
the amalgamation only occurs upon the small plane section. It Avould be 
almost impossible to judge by simple inspection of the exact point at Avhich the 
separation of the copper wires from each other, to allow of the liquid attaining 
a cylindrical form, should be discontinued. To avoid this difficulty, the length 
of the cylinder is given beforehand, and this length is marked by two faint 
scratches upon the lateral surface of one of the strips of glass ; the weight of 
the globule of mercury, which is to form a cylinder of this diameter and of the 
length required, is then determined by calculation from the known diameter of 
the wire; lastly, by means of a delicate balance, the globule to be used in the 
experiment is made exactly of this weight. All that then remains to be done 
is to extend the little mass until the extremities of the copper wires between 
which it is included have reached the marks traced upon the glass. Lastly, in 
making a series of experiments, the same mercury may be used several times 
if the isolated spheres ai"e united into a single mass at the end of each observa- 
tion. However, after a certain number of experiments, the mercury appears to 
lose its fluidity, and the mass always becomes disunited at some point, in spite 
of all possible precautions, before it has become extended to the desired length, 
which })henomena arise from the solfd wires imparting a small quantity of cop- 
per to the mercury. The latter must then be removed, the plates of glass and 
the strips cleaned, and a new globule taken. The amalgamation of the wires 
also sometimes requires to be renewed. 

52. By means of the above apparatus and methods, I have made a series of 
experiments upon the transformation of the cylinders ; but before relating the 
. results, it is requisite for their interpretation that we should examine the phe- 
nomenon a little more closely. 

Let us imagine a liquid cylinder of considerable length in proportion to its 
diameter, and attached by its extremities to two solid bases ; let us suppose 
that it is effecting its transformation, and let us consider the figure at a period 
of the phenomenon anterior to the separation of the masses, ^. c, when this 
figure is still composed of dilatations alternating with constrictions. As the 
surfaces of the dilatations project externally from the primitive cylindrical sur- 
face, and those of the constrictions on the contrary are internal to this same 
surface, we can imagine in the figure a series of plane sections perpendicular to 
the axis, and all having a diameter equal to that of the cylinder; these sections 
will evidently constitute the limits which separate the dilated from the con- 
sti'icted portion, so that each portion, whether constricted or dilated, will be 
terminated by two of them ; moreover, as the two solid bases are necessarily 
part of the sections in question, each of these bases should occupy the very 
exti'emity of a constricted or dilated portion. This being granted, three hypo- 
theses present themselves in regard to these two portions of the figure, i. c, to 
those which rest respe<-tively upon each of the solid bases. In the first place, 
we may suppose that both of the portions arc expanded. In this case each of 
the constrictions will transfer the liquid which it loses to the two dilatations 
immediately adjacent to it ; the movements of transport of the liquid will tdke 
place in the same manner throughout the whole extent of the figure, and the 



264 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

transformation will take place -with perfect regularity, giving rise to isolated 
spheres exactly equal iu diameter, and at equal distance s apart. This regu- 
larity will not, however, extend to the two extreme dilatations; for as each of 
these is terminated on oue side by a solid surface, it will only receive liquid 
from the constriction which is situated on the other side, and will, therefore, 
acquire less development than, the intermediate dilatations. Under these cir- 
cumstances, then, after the termination of the phenomenon, wc ought to find 
two portions of spheres respectively adherent to two solid bases, each present- 
ing a slightly less diameter than that of the isolated spheres arranged between 
them. 

In the second place, wc may admit that the terminal portions of the figure 
are, one a constriction and the other a dilatation. The liquid lost by the first, 
not being then able to traverse the solid base, will necessarily all be driven into 
the adjacent dilatation ; so that, as the latter receives all the liquid necessary 
to its development on one side only, it will receive none from the opposite side ; 
consequently all the liquid lost by the second constriction will flow in the same 
manner into the second dilatation, and so on up to the last dilatation. The 
distribution of the movements of transport will, the;i'eforc, still.be regular 
throughout the figure, and the transformation will ensue iu a perfectly regular 
manner. This regularity will evidently extend even to the two terminal por- 
tions, at least so long as the constrictions have not attained their greatest 
depth ; but beyond that point this will not exactly be the case, for independ- 
ence being then established between the masses, each of the dilatations, except- 
ing that which rests upon the solid base, will enlarge simultaneously on both 
sides, so as to pass into the condition of the isolated sphere, by appropriating 
to itself the two adjacent semi-constrictions, \thilst thfe extreme dilatation can 
enlarge on one side. Consequently, after the termination of the phenomenon, 
we should find, at one of the soild bases, a portion of a sphere of but little less 
diameter than that of the isolated spheres, and at the other base a much smaller 
portion of a sphere, arising from the semi-constriction which has remained 
attached to it. 

Lastly, in the third place, let us suppose that the terminal portions of the 
figure were both constrictions, in which case, after the termination of the phe- 
nomenon, a portion of a sphere equal to the smallest of the two above would 
be left to each of the solid bases. In this case, to be more definite, let us 
Btart from one of these terminal constrictions ; for instance, that of the left. All 
the liquid lost by this first constriction being driven into the contiguous dilata- 
tion, and being sufBcient for its development, let us admit that all the liquid 
lost by the second constriction also passes into the second dilatation, and so 
on ; then all the dilatations, excepting the last on the right, will simply acquire 
their normal development; but the right dilatation, which, like each of the 
others, receives from that part of the constriction which precedes it the quan- 
tity of liquid necessary for its development, receives in addition the same 
quantity of liquid from that part of the constriction which is applied to the 
adjacent solid, so that it will be more voluminous than the others. Hence it is 
evident, in the case in point, that the opposed actions of the two terminal con- 
Btrictioiis introduce an excess of liquid into the rest of the figure. Now, what- 
ever other hypothesis may be made respecting the distribulion of the move- 
ments of transport, it must always happen cither that the excess of volume is 
simultaneously distributed over all the dilatations, or that it only augments the 
dimensions of one or two of them ; but the former of these su])positiona is 
evidently inadmissible, on account of the complication which it would require 
in th(; movements of transi)ort ; hence we must admit the second, and then the 
isolated spheres will not all be equal. Thus this third mode of transformation 
would necessarily of itself induce a cause of irregularity ; and, moreover, it 
would not allow of a uniform distribution of the movements of transport, be- 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 265 

cause there would be opposition in regard to these movements, at least in the 
terminal constrictions. 

it may, therefore, be regarded as very probabl'.i that the transformation takes 
place according to one or the other of the two lirst methods, and never accord- 
ing to the third, i. c, that things will be so arranged that the figure which is 
transformed may have for its terminal portions either two dilatations, or one 
constriction and one dilatation, but not two constrictions. In the former case, 
as we have seen, the movement of the liquid of all the constrictions would 
ensue on both sides simultaneously ; and in the second this movement would 
, occur in all in one and the same direction. If this is really the natural arrange- 
ment of the phenomenon, we can also understand how it will be preserved even 
when it is disturbed in its regularity by slight extraneous causes. I^ow, this, 
as we shall see, is confirmed by the experiments relating to the mercurial 
cylinder. Although the transformation of this cylinder has rarely yielded a 
perfectly regular system of spheres, I have found in the great majority of the 
results either that each of the soild bases was occupied by a mass little less in 
diameter than the isolated spheres, or that one of the bases was occupied by a 
mass of this kind and the other by a much smaller mass. 

53. For the sake of brevity, let us denominate divisions of the cylinder those 
portions of the figure each of which furnishes a sphere, whether we consider 
these portions in the imagination as in the cylinder itself, before the com- 
mencement of the transformation, or Avhether v/e take them during the accom- 
plishment of the phenomenon, /.f., during the modifications which they undergo 
in arriving at the spherical form. The length of a division is evidently that 
distance which, during the transformation, is comprised between the necks of 
two adjacent constrictions; consequently it is equal to the sum of the lengths 
of a dilatation and two semi-constrictions. Let us, therefore, see how the 
length in question, i. c, that of a division, may be deduced from the result of 
an experiment. Let us suppose the transtbrmation to be perfectly regular, and 
let A be the length of a division, I that of the cylinder, and n the number of 
isolated spheres found after the termination of the phenomenon. Each of these 
spheres being fuinished by a complete division, and each of the two terminal 
masses by part of a division, the length I will consist of n times k, plus two 
fractions of /. To estimate the values of these fractions, Ave must recollect 
that the length of a constriction is exactly or apparently equal to that of a dila- 
tation, (§ 46 ;) now, in the first of the two normal cases, (§ 52.) /. c, when the 
masses remaining adherent to the bases after the termination of the phenomenon 
are both of the large kind, each of them evidently arises from a dilatation plus 
half a constrictioi), therefore three-fourths of a division ; the sum of the lengths 
of the two portions of the cylinder which have furnished these masses is, there- 
fore, equal to once and a half I, and we shall have in this case / = (« + 1.5) I, 

whence X^=. — . In the second case, i. c, when the terminal masses con- 

n -f 1.5 
sist of one of the large and the other of the small kind, the latter arises from a 
semi-constriction, or a fourth of a division, so that the sum of the lengths of the 
portions of the cylinder corresponding to these two masses is equal to k ; con- 
sequently we shall have A =: — — — . 

As the respective denominators of these two expressions represent the num- 
ber of divisions contained in the total length of the cylinder, it follows that 
this number will always be either simply a whole number, or a whole number 
and a half. On the other hand, as the phenomenon is governed by determinate 
laws, we can understand that for a cylinder of given diameter composed of a 
given liquid, and placed under given circumstances, there exists a normal 
length which the divisions tend to assume, and which they would rigorously 
assume if the total length of the cylinder were infinite. If. then, it happens 



26G THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 



that the total length of the cylinder, although limited, is equal to the product 
of the normal length of the divifsions by a whole number, or rather a Avholc 
number plus a half, nothing will pieveut the divisions from exactly assuming 
this normal length. If, ou the other hand, which is generally the case, the 
tof.il length of the cylinder fulfils neither of the preceding conditions, we should 
think that the divisions would assume the nearest possible to the normal length; 
and then, all other things being equal, the difference will evidently be as much 
"less as lh(^ divisions are more numerous, or, in other words, as the cylinder is 
longer. We should also believe that the transformation would adopt that of 
the two methods which is best adapted to diminish the dilference in question, 
and this is also confirmed by experiment, as we shall see presently. Hence, 
ah hough, as I have already stated, the transformation of the cylinder of mei'- 
cury almost always ensues in one of the two normal methods, the result is 
rarely very regular; we must, thert^fore, admit that slight accidental disturbing 
causes in general render the divisions formed in any one experiment unequal 
in length ; but then the expressions of A obtained above evidently give in each 
experiment the mean length of these divisions, or, in other words, the common 
length which the divisions would have taken if the transformation had occurred 
in a perfectly regular manner, giving rise to the same number of isolated 
spheres and to the same state of the terminal masses. 

Lastly, since the third method of transformation presents itself, i. c, since it 
sometimes happens that each of the bases is occupied by a mass of the small kind, 
if we would leave out of consideration the particular cause of irregularity inhe- 
rent in this method, (the preceding paragraph,) and find the conesponding 
expression of )., it need only be remarked that each of the terminal masses 
then proceeds from a semi-constriction or the fourth of a division, which will 

evidently give X = -r-z- 

54. I shall now relate the results of the experiments. The diameter of the 
copper wires, consequently of the cylinder, was 1.05 millimeter. I first gave 
the cylinder a length of 90 millimeters, and repeated the experiment ten times, 
noting after each the number of isolated spheres produced, and the state ot the 
masses adherent to the bases ; I then calculated for each result the correspond- 
ing value of the length of a division, by means of that of the three formulaj of 
the preceding ])aragraph which refers to this same result, I afterwards made 
ten more experiments, giving the cylinder a length of 100 millimeters, and al.io 
calculated the corresponding values of the length of a division. The table con- 
tains the results furnished by these cylinders, and the values deduced for the length 
of a divi.'^ion. I only obtained a perfectly regular result in one case in each series; 
1 have placed an * opposite the corresponding number of isolated spheres.- 



Length of the cylinder 90 millimeters. 


Length of the cyliuder 100 millimcUirs. 


Number of 
isolated 
BlJlieres. 


Masses adherent to the bases. 


Length 

of a 
division. 


Number of 
isolated 
spheres. 


Masses adherent to the .bases. Length 
of a 
division. 


10 


Two large 


millims. 

7.8:i 
6.G7 
7.20 
5.45 
5.81 
7.20 
7.20 
G.[)i 
6.21 
7.20 


11 
14 
14 
14 
M4 

r.i 

11 
14 

n 

10 


Cue large and one small . . 


millims. 

8.;J3 


*12 


Two lai go 


G 45 


12 


Two Biimll 


Two large 

Two large 

One large and one small- . 
One large aud one smaif. . 

Two large 

One large and one small. . 


0.45 


15 


Two large 


6.45 


14 


Two large 


6 G7 


11 


Two large 


7.14 


11 


Two large 


8 00 


12 
13 


Cue large aud one small. . 
Two large 


6.67 
6.00 


11 


Two laa tre 




8.69 




'' 







WITHDRAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



267 



This table sliows, iu the first place, that the diifcrent values obtained for the 
length of a division are not so far removed from each other as to prevent our 
perceiving a constant value, the uniformity of which is only altered by the 
influence of slight accidental causes. In the second place, out of twenty ex- 
periments, it happened once only that the masses adherent to the bases were 
both of the small kind. In the third place, both the perfectly regular results 
have given identically the same value for tlie length of a division; this value, 
expressed approximatively to two decimal places, is 6.67 millimeters ; but its 
exact expression is 6§- millimeters ; for the operation to be effected consists, in 
the case of the first series, in the division of 90 millimeters by 13.5, and, in the 
case of the second series, in the division of 100 millimeters by 15. As the two 
lengths given to the cjdinder are considerable in proportion to the diameter, and 
consequently the numbers of division are tolerably large, this value, 65 milli- 
meters, ought very nearly, if not exactly, to constitute that of the normal length 
of the divisions. It is seen, moreover, that to give the divisions this closely 
approximative or exact value of the normal length, the transformation has 
chosen, in one case the first, in the other case the second method. 

55. Let us pursue our inquiry into the laws of the phenomenon with which 
we are engaged ;. we shall soon make an important application of them, and it 
will then be understood why so extensive a development is given to this part of 
our work. It might be regarded as evident a priori that two cylinders formed 
of the same liquid and placed in the same circumstances, but differing in diameter, 
would tend to become di\'ided in the same manner, i. e., that the respective nor- 
mal lengths of the divisions would be to each other iu the proportion of the 
diameters of these cylinders. 

In order to verify this law by experiment, I procured some copper wires, the 
diameter of which was exactly double that of the first, therefore equal to 2.1 
millimeters, and 1 made with them a new series of ten experiments, giving the 
cylinder a length of 100 millimeters. This series also furnished me with only 
a single perfectly regular result, which I have denoted as before by an * placed 
opposite the corresponding number of isolated spheres. The following is the 
table relating to this series : 



Number of 
isolated 
spheres. 



Masses adheront to the bases. 



Length 

of a 
division. 



Two small 

Two laige 

One large and oue small 
One large aud one small 

Two large 

Two large 

Ouc large and one small 
Oue laige and one small 

Two small 

One large aud one small 



millijns. 
13.33 
13.33 
14.28 
1-2..O0 
13.33 
13.33 
14.28 
11.11 
11.76 
14.28 



By stopping at the second decimal place, wc have, as is evident, 13.33 milli- 
meters for the value of the length of a division corresponding to the perfectly 
reo'ular result; but as the operation which yields it consists in the division of 
100 by 7.5, the value when perfectly expressed is 13^ millimeters. This then 
is very nearly, if not exactly, the normal length of the divisions of this new 
•cylinder; now this length, 13^ millimeters, is exactly twice the length, C§ 
millimeters, which belongs to the divisions of the cylinder of the preceding 



268 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS. 

paragraph ; tlic?e two longtlis aro thereforo, in fact, in tlie proportion to each 
other otilhe diamntcrs of the two cylirtder.s. 

A? tlie perfectly roguhir result of the above table has given a mass of the 
larger kind to each ba;^c, it follows, that to enable the divisions of the cylinder 
itself to assume their normal length, or the nearest possible length to this, the 
transformation has necessarily ensued according to tlie former method ; whilst 
in regard to a cylinder the diameter of which is a half less, and the total length 
of Avhich is the same, I'OO millimeters, the transformation ensued according to 
the second method, (§ 54.) 

Ucrc, also, the case in which there are two masses of the small kind to the 
solid bases is the least I'rcquent, although it occurred twice. Lastly, the differ- 
ent values of the length of a division are more concordant than in the second 
scries relating to the first diameter, and consequently show the tendency towards 
a constant value better; we also see that the normal length is that which is 
most frequently reproduced. 

56. According to the law Avhich we. have just established, when the nature of 
the liquid and external circumstances do not change, the. normal length of the 
divisions is proportional to the diameter of the cylinder; or, in other words, the 
proportion of the normal length of the divisions to the diameter of the cylinder 
is constant. 

As we have seen, the diameter of the cylinder in paragraph 5i was 1.05 mil- 
limeters, and the normal length of its divisions was very little less than G.G7 
millimeters ; consequently, when the liquid used is mercury and the cylinder 
rests upon a plate of glass, the value of the constant proportion in question is 
6.67 , , 

-j-rrp ^^ 6.35, which approximates closely. 

To ascertain whether the nature of the liquid and external circumstances 
exert any influence upon this proportion, we shall now determine the value of 
the latter in the case of a cylinder of oil formed in the alcoholic mixture, which 
may be effected, at least approximatively, with the aid of the n^sult of tho 
experiment in paragraph 47. To simplify the considerations, we shall suj^pose 
that the transformation does not commence until the rapidity of transference has 
entirely ceased. The ])oint of the funnel, on the one hand, and the section by 
which the imperfect liquid cylinder is in contact with the mass which collects 
at the bottom of the vessel, on the other hand, may then be regarded as playing 
the part of the two buses of the figure. Now it is evident that, as regards the 
second <,f these bases, the last portion of the figure which is transformed should 
be a constriction ; for if it constituted a dilatation, there would be discontinuity 
of the curvature at the junction of the respective surfaces of the latter and the 
large mass, which is inadmissible. But the same reason does not apply to the 
other base ; and experiment shows that in this case a dilatation is formed, be- 
cause after the termination of the phenomenon we always find at tho point of 
the funnel a mass comparable to the isolated spheres. Hence in this experiment 
the transformation ensues according to the second method. Therefore, as the 
whole length of the figure is about 200 millimeters, and as the transformation 
constantly yields two isolated spheres, the mean length of the divisions has 

(§ 53) for its approximative value — — ■ millimeters = 66.7 millimeters ; I say 

th*^ mean length, because, as the diameter of the figure increases slightly from 
the summit towards the base, the divisions are probably not exactly equal in 
length. It must be added here, that the transformation ensues under circixm- 
stances which are always identical, and consequently, in the absence of acci- 
dental disturbing causes, the above quantity ought to represent the normal 
length of the divisions, or the nearest possible length to the latter. Now, 1 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 269 

estimate the mean diameter of the figure before the transformation at about 4 

.„. 1,1 , , 66.7 

millimeters; we should consequently have —-—= 16.7 as the approximative 

value of the proportion between the normal length of the divisions and the 
diameter of the cylinder. This is, therefore, approximativcly the constant pro- 
portion sought in the case of a cylinder of oil formed in the alcoliolic mixture ; 
now this proportion, as is evident, is much greater than that which belongs to 
the case of a cylinder of mercury resting upon a plate of gla^s. 

In fact, the length 66.7 millimeters may. differ somewhat materially from the 
normal length ; for if on the one hand, the whole length of the figure of oil is 
considerable in regard to its diameter, on the other hand, the number of divisions 
which form there is very small. Let us then see, for instance, what is the least 
value which the normal length of these divisions may have. We must in the 
first place remark, that in this case, notwithstanding the absence of disturbing 
causes, the third method of transfer nation is possible; in fact, as the lower 
constriction is adherent to a liquid base, nothing can prevent the oil which it 
loses from traversing this base to reach the large mass, so that in the third 
method, also, the direction of the movements of transport may be the same in 
regard to all the constrictions, (§ 52.) This granted, as the denominator of the 
expression which gives the length of one division can only vary by half 
units, (53,) and as the length which we have found resulted from the division 
of 200 millimeters by 3, it follows that the length immediately below would be 

200 

— — millimeters =: 57.1 millimeters, which would correspond to three isolated 

spheres and a transformation disposed according to the third method. But as 
matters do not take place in this manner, since there are never more than two 
isolated spheres formed, and the transformation always ensues according to 
the second method, we must conclude that the' normal length of the divisions 
approximates more closely to the length found, 66.7 millimeters, than the length 
57.1 millimeters. If, then, the normal length is greater than the first of these 
two quantities, it must at least be more than their mean, ^. c, 61.9 millimeters ; 
consequently the relation of the normal length of the divisions and the diameter 

61.9 
of the cylinder is necessarily greater than — — -= 15.5; now this latter num- 
ber considerably exceeds the number 6.35, which corresponds to the mercurial 
cylinder. 

Thus, the proportion of the normal length of the divisions to the diameter of 
the cylinder varies, sometimes according to the nature of the liquid, sometimes 
according to external circumstances, at others according to both these elements. 

57. But I say that there is a limit below which this proportion cannot descend, 
and that this is exactly the limit of stability. Let us imagine a liquid cylinder 
of sufficient length in proportion to its diameter, comprised between two solid 
bases, and the transformation of which is taking place with perfect regularity. 
Suppose, for the sake of clearness, that the phenomenon ensut-s according to the 
second method, or, in other words, that the terminal portions of the figure con- 
sist one of a constriction, the other of a dilatation ; then, as we have seen, (§ 52,) 
the regularity of the transformation will extend to these latter portions ; i. c, the 
terminal constriction and the dilatation will be respectively identical with the 
portions of the same kind of the rest of the figure. Let us then take the figure 
at that period of the phenomenon at which it still presents constrictions and 
dilatations, and let us again consider the sections, the diameter of which is equal 
to that of the cylinder, (§ 52.) Let us start from the terminal constricted por- 
tion ; the solid base upon which this rests, and Avhich constitutes the first of the 
sections in question, will occupy, as we have shown, the origin of the constric- 



270 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRimi OF A LIQUID MASS 

tion itself; we shall tlicn liave a second section at the origin of the first dilatation; 
a tliird at the origin of the second constriction ; a fourth at the origin of the 
second dilatation, and" so on; so that all the sections of the even series will 
occupy the origins of the dilatations, all those of the odd series the origins of 
the constrictions. The interval comprised between two consecutive sections of 
the odd series will therefore include a constriction and a dilatation ; and as the 
figure begins with a constriction and terminates with a dilatation, it is clear that 
its entire length will be divided into a whole number of similar intervals. In 
consequence of the exact regularity which we have supposed to exist in the 
transformation, all the intervals in question will be equal in length ; and as the 
moment at which we enter upon the consideration of the figure may be taken 
arbitrarily from the origin of the phenomenon to the maximum of the depth of 
the constrictions, it follows that the equality of length of the intervals subsists 
during the whole of this period, and that, consequently, the sections which 
terminate these intervals preserve during this period perfectly fixed positions. 
Besides the parts of the figure respectively contained in each of the intervals 
imdergoing identically and simultaneously the same modifications, the volumes 
of all these parts remain equal to each other ; and as their sum is always equal 
to the total volume of the liquid, it follows that, from the origin of the trans- 
formation to the maximum of depth of the constrictions, each of these partial 
volumes remains invariable, or, in other words, no portion of liquid passes 
from any one interval into the adjacent ones. Thus, at the instant at which 
we consider the figure, oh the one hand, the two sections Avhich terminate any 
one interval will have preserved their primitive positions and their diameters ; 
and on the other hand these sections will not have been traversed by any por- 
tion of liquid. Matters will then have occurred in each interval in the same 
manner as if the two sections by which it is terminated had been solid disks. 
But the transformation cannot, ensue between two solid disks, if the proportion 
of the distance which separates the disks to the diameter of the cylinder is less 
than the limit of stability; the proportion of the length of our intervals and the 
diameter of the cylinder cannot then be less than this limit. Now, the length 
of an interval is evidently equal to that of a division ; for the first, in accord- 
ance with what we have seen above, is the sum of the lengths of a dilatation 
and a constriction ; and the second is the sum of the lengths of a dilatation and 
two serai-constrictions, (§ 53 ;) the proportion of the length of a division to the 
diameter of the cylinder cannot then be less than the limit of stability; and we 
may remark here that this conclusion is equally true, whether the divisions are 
able or not to assume exactly their normal length. 

58. Let us now attempt to ascertain the influence of the nature of the liqviid 
and that of external circumstances, commencing with the latter. Our liquid 
cylinder of mercury, along the whole of the line at which it touches the plate 
of glass, must contract a tJight adherence to this plate, which adherence must 
more or less impede the transformation. To discover whether this resistance 
exerted any influence upon the normal length of the divisions, consequently 
upon the proportion of the latter to the diameter of the cylinder, a simple 
means presented itself, viz., to augment this resistance. To arrive at this 
result, I arranged the apparatus in such a manner as to remove only one of 
the strips of glass, so that the liquid figure then remained simultaneously in 
CO tact with the plate and the other strip. I again repeated the experiment 
ten times, using copper wires 1.05 millimeters in diameter, and giving the 
cylinder a length of 100 millimeters. The fjllowing were the results : 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



271 



Kumber of 
isohited 
spheres. 


Masses adherent to the bases. 


Length 

of a 
division. 


9 


One large and one small 


millims. 
10 00 


8 


One large and one small 


11 11 


9 


One large and one small 


10 00 


8 


One large and one small 


11.11 


11 


Two small 


8 69 


8 


One large and one small 


11.11 


8 


One large and one small 


11.11 


8 


Two large 


10.53 


8 


One large and one small 


11 11 


6 


Two large 


13.33 









It is evident that the different values of the length of a division, with a sin- 
gle exception, are all obviously greater than all those which relate to a cylinder 
of the same diameter, the surface of which only touches the glass by a si.ngle 
line, {§ 54.) We must thence conclude that, all other things being the same, 
the length of the divisions increases with the external resistance; consequently, 
under the action of the same resistance, this length is necessarily greater than 
it Avould be if the convex surface of the cylinder had been perfectly free. 

In the above series neither of the results appears to be very regular; but we 

can readily understand that the mean of the values of the third column will 

approach the normal length of the divisions. This is, moreover, confirmed by 

the tables in §§ 54 and 55. If we take in the former the respective means of 

the values of the two series, we find for one 6.77 millimeters, and for the other 

7.17 millimeters, quantities, the first of which is nearly equal to the length 

6.67 millimeters, which may be considered as the normal length, and from 

which the second does not differ much ; and if likewise we take the relative 

mean in the following table, we find 13.15 millimeters, a quantity very near 

the length 13.33 millimeters, which in the case of the second table may also be 

regarded as the normal length. Now, the corresponding mean in the above 

table is 10.81 millimeters ; consequently, in the case of two lines of contact we 

1 SI 
liave -j-—-- = 10.29 as the approximate value of the proportion of the normal 
l.Uo 

length of the divisions to the diameter of the cylinder, whilst in the case of a 
single line of contact we found only 6.35. Hence the proportion between the 
normal length of the divisions and the diameter of the cylinder increases by 
the effect of an external resistance. 

59. Let us proceed to the influence of the nature of the liquid. All liquids 
are more or less viscid ; i. c, their molecules do not enjoy perfect mobility with 
regard to each other. Now, this gives rise to an internal resistance, which 
must also render the transformation less easy ; and as external resistances 
increase the length of the divisions, we can understand that the viscidity will 
act in the same manner; consequently, all other things being equal, the propor- 
tion now under consideration will increase with this viscidity. But, on the other 
hand, with equal curvatures,. the intensities of the forces Avhich produce the 
transformation vary with the nature of the liquid ; for these intensities depend, 
in the case of each liquid, upon that of the mutual attraction of the molecules. 
Now, it is clear that the viscidity will exert so much more influence upon the 
length of the divisions as the intensities of the forces in question arc less. 
Thus, leaving external resistances out of the question, the proportions of the 
normal length of the divisions to the diameters will be greater in proportion to 
the viscidity of the liquid and the feebleness of the configuring forces. 



272 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

The intensities of the configuring forces corresponding to different liquids 
may be compared numerically for the same curvatures. In fact, let us first 
bear in mind that the pressure corrcKponding to one element of the superficial 
layer, and reduced to unity of the surface, is expressed by (§ 4,) 



--tG-0 



Now, the value of the part P of this pressure being the same for all the elements 
of the superficial layer, and the pressures being transmitted throughout the 
mass, this i)art P will always be destroyed, whether equilibrium exists in the 
liquid figure or not; so that the active part of the prest^ure (that which consti- 
tutes the configuring force) will have for its measure simply "^ I "tT + i77 Y 

Hence it is evident that when the curvatures are equal, the intensity of the 
configuring force arising from one element of the superficial layer is propor- 
tional to the coefticiont A. Now, this coefiicicnt is the same as that which 
enters into the known expression of the elevation or depression of a liquid in a 
capillary tube : consequently the measures relating to this elevation or depres- 
sion M'ill give us, in the case of each liquid, the value of the coefiicient in ques- 
tion. Hence we may also say that the proportion of the normal length of the 
divisions to the diameter of the cylinder will be greater as the liquid is more 
viscid and as the value of A which corresponds to the latter diminishes. For 
instance, oil is much more viscid than mercury ; on the other hand, it Avould 
be easy to show that the value of A is much less for the first than for the 
second of these two liquids ; lastly, this value must be much diminished in 
regard to our figure of oil by the presence of the surrounding alcoholic liquid, 
the mutual attraction of the molecules of the two liquids in contact diminishing 
the inteiisities of the pressures, (§ 8.) This Is why the proportion belonging to 
a cylinder of oil formed in the alcoholic mixture considerably exceeds that be- 
longing to a cylinder of mercury resting upon a plate of glass, notwithstandmg 
the slight external resistance to which the latter is subjected. 

60. It follows from this discussion concerning the resistances that the 
smallest value Avhich the pi'oportion of the normal length of the divisions to 
the dii^meter of the cylinder could be supposed to have corresponds to that 
case in Avhicli there is simultaneously complete absence of external resistance 
and of viscidity; and, after the demonstration given in § 57, this least value 
will be at least equal to the limit of stability. Now, as all liquids are more or 
less viscid, it follows that, even on the hypothesis of the annihilation of all ex- 
ternal resistance, the proportion in question will always exceed the limit of 
rttability ; and since this is more than 3, this proportion will, a for lion, be 
always more than 3. 

It is conceivable that the least value considered above, ^. c, that which the 
proportion would have in the case of complete absence of resistance, both 
internal as well as external, would be equal to the limit of stability itself, or 
woukl very slightly exceed it. In fact, on the. one hand, the proportion ap- 
proximates to this limit as the resistances diminish, and on the other hand, if it 
exceeds it, the transibrmation becomes possible, (§ 57;) hence we see no reason 
why it sliouhl differ sensibly from it if the resistances were absolutely null. 
The results of our experiments, moreover, tend to confirm this view. First,. 
since the proportion belonging to our cylinder of mercury descends from 10.29 
to C.35, passing from that case in which the cylinder touches the glass at two 
lines to that Avhere it touches it at a single one only, (§ 58,) it is clear that if 
this latter contact itself could be suppressed, which would leave the influence 
of the viscidity alone remaining, the proportion would become much less than 



WITHDEAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 273 

6.35; and as, on tbe other hand, it must exceed 3, we might admit that it would 
at least lie between the hitter number and 4, so that it would closely approxi- 
mate the limit of stability. If, then, it were possible to exclude the viscidity 
also, the new decrease which the proportion would then experience, would very 
probably bring the latter to the very limit in question, or at least to a value 
diti'ering but exceedingly little from it. Thus, on the one hand, the least value 
of the proportion, that corresponding to the complete absence of resistances, 
would not differ, or scarcely so, from the limit of stability; and oa the other 
hand, under the influence of viscidity alone, the proportion appertaining to tha 
mercury would be but little removed from this least value. Hence it is evident 
that the hiiluence of the viscidity of mercury is small, which is moreover ex- 
plained by the well-known feebleness of this same viscidity. 

We can now vmderstand in the case of other but very slightly viscid liquids, 
such as water, alcohol, &c., where the viscidity is not able to form more than a 
minimum resistance, that this viscidity, notwithstanding the differences in the 
intensities of the configuring forces, will also exert only a feeble influence upon 
the proportion in question. Hence it results that, in the absence of all external 
resistance, the values of this proportion respectively corresponding tO' the various 
very slightly viscid liquids cannot be very far removed from the limit of sta- 
bility; and as the smallest whole number above this is 4, we may in regard to 
these liquids adopt this number as representing the mean approximative proba- 
ble value of the proportion in question. 

Starting from this value, calculation gives us the number 1.82 as the propor- 
tion of the diameter of the isolated spheres which result from the transformation 
to the diameter of the cylinder, and the number 2.18 for the proportion betAveen 
the distance of two adjacent spheres and this diameter. 

61. There is another consequence arising from our discussion. For the sake 
of simplicity let the diameter of the cylinder be taken as unit}'. The propor- 
tion of the normal length of the division to the diameter will then express this 
normal length itself, and the proportion consiituting the limit of stability will 
express the length corresponding to this limit. This admitted, let us resume 
the conclusion at which we arrived at the commencement of the; preceding sec- 
tion, which conclusion we shall consequently express here by stating that in 
the case of all liquids the normal length of the divisions always exceeds the 

' limit of stability ; we must recollect, in the second place, that the sum of the 
lengths of one constriction and one dilatation is equal to that of a division, 
(§ 57;) and, thirdly, at the first moment of the transformation the length of one 
constriction is equal to that of a dilatation, (§ 46.) Now, it follows from all 
these propositions, that when the transformation of a cylinder begins to take 
place, the length of a single portion, whether constrigted or dilated, is necessa- 
rily greater than half the limit of stability ; consequently the sutn of the lengths 
of three contiguous portions, for instance two dilatations and the intermediate 
constriction, is once and a half greater than this same limit. ^ Hence, lastly, if 
the distance of the solid bases is comprised between once and once and a half 
the limit of stability, it is impossible for the limit of stability to give rise to three 
portions, and it will consequently only be able to produce a single dilatation in 
juxtaposition with a single constriction. This, in fact, r we have seen, always 
took place in regard to the cylinder, in § 46, which was evidently in the above 
condition, and the want of symmetry in its transformation now becomes ex])licable. 

62. As stated at the conclusion of § 48, we have yet to describe a remarkable 
fact which always accompanies the end of the phenomenon of the transformation 
of a liquid cylinder into isolated masses. 

In the transformation of large cylinders of oil, whether imperfect or exact, 
(§ 44 to 46.) when the constricted part is considerably narrowed, and the sepa- 
ration seems on the point of occurring, the two masses are seen to flow back 
rapidly towards the rings or the disks; but they leave between them a cyliudri- 

18 s 



274 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

cal line which still establishes, for a very short time, the continuity of the cue 
with the other, (Fig. 28;) this line then resolves itself into partial masses. It 



Ii^.2 



28. 



Fig. 29. 





generally diyicles into three parts, the two extreme ones of which become lost 
in the two large masses, the intermediate one forming a spherule, some milli- 
meters in diameter, -which remains isolated in the middle of the interval which 
separates the large masses ; moreover, in each of the intervals between this 
ppherule and the two large masses, another very much smaller spherule is seen, 
which indicates that the separation of the parts of the above line is also effected 
by attenuated lines. Fig. 29 (PL VIII) represents this ultimate state of the 
liquid system, 'i'lie same effects arc produced when the resolution of the thin 
and elongated cylinder of oil of § 47 into spheres occurs, only there is in one 
or the other of the intervals between the spheres frequently a larger number 
of spherules, and, besides, the formation of the principal line is less easily 
observed, in consequence of the more rapid progress of the phenomena. Lastly, 
in the case of our cylinders of mercury, the resolution into spheres takes place 
also in too short a time to allow of our perceiving the formation of the lines; 
but we always find, in several of the intervals between the spheres, one or two 
very minute spherules, whence we may conclude that the separation is effected 
in the same manner.* 



* We cannot avoid recognizing an analogy between the phenomenon of the formation ot 
liquid lines and that ot the formation of lammae. In fact, in the experiment in ^ 23, for 
instance, the piano layer begins to be formed when the two opposite concave surfaces'are 
almost in contact with each other at theii' summits ; and in the resolution of a cylinder into 
spheres, the formation of the lines commences when all the meridional sections of the figmes 
almost touch each other by the summits of their concave portions. 

When treating of the layers, we have considered their formation as indicating a hind of 
tendency towards a particular state of eqnillbruim, which results from the circumstance that 
in the case of the thin part of the liquid system the ordinary law of pressure is nioditied. For 
the analogy between the two orders of jjhcnomena to be complete, it would, tlicreibre, be 
necessary liiat excessively delicate liquid lines should connect thick masses, and should thus 
form with tiiese masses a system in erji^Jibrio, notwithstanding the iucompatibihty of this 
equilibrium with the ordinary law of pitjssures. Now, we shall show that this equilibrium 
is in reality possible, at least theoretically. Let us always take as example the resolution 
of our unstable cylinder iutof)anial masses. When the cylindrical Hues form, their diameter 
is even then very small in comparison with the dimensions of the thick masses; consequently 
their curvature in the direction peipendicular to the i.:;;s is very great in comparison with 
the curvature of these masses. The pressure corresponding to the lines is then originally 
much greater than tliose corresponding to the thick masses, whence it follows that the liquid 
must be driven from the interior of the lines towards these same masses, and that the lines, 
like the layers, ought to continue diminishing. Moreover, their curvatures, and conse- 
quently their pressure augmenting in proportion as they become more attenuated, their 
.tendency'to diminish in thickness will go on increasing, and consequently if we disregard 
the instability of the cylindrical form, we sec that they must become of an excessive tenuity. 
IJut I say that the augmentation of the pressure will have a limit, bcyt)nd which this pressure 
will jirogressivcly diminish, so that it may become equal to that which corresponds to the 
thick parts of tlie liquid system. 

lu fact, without having recourse to theoretical developments, it is readily seen that if the 
diameter of tiie line becomes less than that of the sphere of the sensible activity of the mole- 
cular attraction, the law of the pressure must become nioditied, and, the diameter continuing 
to decrease, the pressure must liuisli by also progressively diminishing, notwithstanding the 
increase of the cuivatures, in consequence of the diminiuion in the number of attracting 
molecules. Hence the pressure may diminish indetinitely ; for it is clear that it would 
entirely vanish, if the diameter of the line became reduced .to the thickness of a single mole- 
cule. Those geometricians who study the theory of capillary action know that the formulae 



WITHDRAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



275 



As we are now acquaiuted with the entu-e course which the transformation 
of a liquid cylinder into isolated spheres must take, we can represent it graphi- 

Fin. 30. 



I 



I 








cally. Fig. 30 represents the successive forms through which the liquid figure 
passes, commencing with the cylinder up to the system of isolated spheres and 



of this theory cease to be applicable in the case of very great curvatures, or those the radii 
of which are comparable to that of molecular attraction. Now, it follows from what has 
been stated, that we may always suppose the thinness of the line to be such that the cor- 
responding pressure may be equal to that existing in thick masses which have attained a 
state of equilibrium. In this case, admitting that the lines are mathematically regular, so 
that the pressure there may be everywhere rigorously the same, consequently that they have 
no tendency to resolve themselves into small partial masses, equilibrium will necessarily 
exist in the system. In this case the form of the thick masses will not be mathooiatically 
spherical; for their surface must become slightly raised at the junctures with the lines by 
presenting concave curvatures in the meridional direction. This form will be the.samd as 
that of an isolated mass, traversed diametrically by an excessively minute solid line, (^ 10.) 
This system, like those into the composition of which layers enter, is composed of surfaces 
of a ditferent nature ; but this heterogeneity of form becomes possible here, us in the case of 
the layers, in consequence of the change which the law of pressures undergoes in passing 
from one to another kind of surface. 

We can, moreover, understand that the equilibrium in question, although possible theo- 
retically, as we have shown, can never be realized, in consequence of the cylindrical form 
of the lines. The same does not apply to the case of the plane layers; for, as we shall show 
in the following series, the plane surfaces are always surlaces of stable equilibrium, whatever 
may be their extent. 



276 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

of spherules. This figure refers to the case of a very slightly viscid liquid, 
Buch as water, alcohol, &c., and where the convex surface of the cylinder is 
perfectly free; consequently, in accordance with the prohable conclusion with 
which § 60 terminates, the ]noportion of the length of the divisions to the 
diameter has been taken as equal to 4. 

The phenomenon rf)f the formation of lines and their resolution into spherules 
is not confuied to the case of the rupture of the equilibrium of liquid cylinders; 
it is always manifostcd when one of our liquid masses, whatever may be its 
figure, is divided into partial masses. This is the manner in which, for 
instance, in § 29 of the preceding memoir the minute masses which Avere then 
compared to satellites are formed.* The pluniomeuon under consideration is 
also ])roduced when liquids are submitted to the free action of gravity, although 
it is then less easily shown. For instance, if the rounded end of a glaf^s rod be 
dii)j)ed in ether, and then ^'ithdrawn carefully in a perpendicular direction, at 
the instant at which the small quantity of liquid remaining adhcnmt to the rod 
separates from the mass, an extremely minute spherule is seen to roll upon the 
surfacf>of the latter. Lastly, the phenomenon in question is of the same nature 
as that which occurs when very viscid bodies are drawn into threads, as glass 
softened by heat, except that in this case the great viscidity of the substance, 
and moreover the action of cold, which solidifies the thread formed, mahitains 
the cylindrical forai of the latter tud allows of its acquiring an indefinite 
length. 

03. To complete the study of the transformation of liquid cylinders into 
isolated spheres, it still remains for us to discover the law according to which 
the duration of the phenomenon varies with the diameter of the cylinder, and 
to endeavor to obtain at least some indications rektive to the absolute value 
of this dtu-ation in the case of a cylinder of a given diameter, composed of a 
given liquid, and placed in given circumstances. 

We can understand, a priori, that when the liquid and the external circum- 
stances are the same, and su])j)Osii)g the length of the cylinder to be always 
such that the divisions assume exactly their normal length, (§ 53,) the duration 
of the phenomenon must increase with the diameter; for the greater this is, the 
greater the mass of each of the divisions, and, on the other hand, the less the 
curvatures upon which the intensities of the configuring forces depend. It is 
true that the surface of each of the divisions increases also with the diameter 
of the cylinder; consequently it is the same with the number of the elementary 
configuring forces; but this augmentation takes place in a less proportion than 
tha! of the mass. This we shall proceed to show more distinctly. Under the 
above conditions two cylinders, the diameters of which are ditl'erent, will be- 
come divided in the same manner; ?'.«., the pro])ortion of the length of a division 
to the diameter will be the same in both parts, (§ o5.) Now, it may be considered 
as evident that the similitude in figure Avill be maintained in all the ])liases of the 
transfoi-mation ; this is, moreover, confirmed by experiment, as we shall soon see. 
Hence it follows at each homologous instant of the transformations of the two 
cylinders the respective surfaces of the divisions will always be to each other 
as the squares of th;' diameters of these cylinders, whilst the masses, which 
evidently remain invariable throughout the entire duration of the phcnouK na, 
will always be to each other as ihe cubes of these diameters. Thus, at each 
homologous instaiit of the respective transformations, the extent of the- super-, 
filial layer of a division, consequently the number of the configuring forces 
which emanate from each of the elements of this layer, change fnjin one figure 
to the other only in the proportion of the squares of the primitive diameters of 

* It is clear that this mode of fonnatiou is entirely foreign to La Place's cosmogoiiic liypo- 
tlicsis; therefore we have liad no idea of deduciiipf from this little experiment, which "only 
relers to I he effects of molecular attractiou, and not to those of gravitation, any argument in- 
lavor of the liypothesis in question — an hypothesis which, in other respects, we' do not adopt. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 27? 

these figures; whilst the mass of a division, all the parts of which mass receivei 
under the action of the forces in question, the movements constituting the 
transformation, changes in the proportion of the cubes of these diameters. As 
regards the intensities of the configuring forces, we must remember, first, that 
the measure of that which corresponds to one element of the superficial layer 

has (§ 59) for its expression "5 f tT + tt, |- This granted, if, at an homologous 

instant in the transformations of the two figures, we take upon one of the divi- 
sions of each of the latter any point similarly placed, it is clear from the simili- 
tude of these figures that the principal radii of curvature corresponding to the 
point taken upou the second will be to those corresponding to the point taken. 
uj)on the first in the proportion of the diameters of the original cylinders, so 
that if this proportion be n, and the radii relating to the point of the first figure 
be 11 and R', those belonging to the point of the second will be «R and nW ; 
whence it follows that the measure of the two configuring forces corresponding 

• A / 1 1 \ T A / 1 1 \ 
to these pomts will be respectively ^ I fi + ^ /• ^"^^ ~^\~v "^ P' / ^^ 

- . — • I v^ + t;-: y Thus, in passing from the first to the second figure, the 
n 2 \ll IV / r o 

intensities of the elementary configuring forces in all the phases of the trans- 
formation will be to each other in the inverse proportion of the diameters of 
the cylinders. 

I have convinced myself, by means of cylinders of mercury 1.05 millimeters 
and 2.1 millimeters in diameter, (§ 54 and 55,) that the duration of the phe- 
nomenon increases, in fact, with the diameter : although the transformation of 
these cylinders is effected very rapidly, yet we have no difficulty in recognizing 
that the duration relating to the greater diameter is greater than that which 
refei's to the least. 

64. As regards the law which governs this increase in the duration, it would 
undoubtedly be almost impossible to arrive at its experimental determination in 
a direct manner, i. e., by measuring the times which the accomplishment of the 
phenomenon would require in the case of two cylinders of sufficient length 
to allow of their being respectivel}' converted into several complete isolated 
spherules, and of their sati.'^fying the conditions indicated at the commencement ■ 
of the preceding section. In fact I can hardly see any method of realizing such 
cvlinders without giving them very minute diameters, like those of our cylindei-s 
of mercury, and then their duration is too short to allow of our obtaining the 
proportion with sufficient exactness. 

But we may be able to arrive at the same result, but with certain restrictions, 
which we shall mention presently, by means of two short cylinders of oil formed 
between two disks, {§ 46 ;) there is nothing to prevent these cylinders from 
being obtained of such diameters as to render the exact measure of the durations 
easy. In the transformation of a cylinder of this kind, only a single constric- 
tion and a single dilatation are produced ; but as in the transformation of cyl- 
inders which are sufficiently long to furnish several complete isolated spheres, 
the phases through which the constrictions and the dilatations pass are the same 
for all, we need only consider one constriction and one dilatation. "VVe can 
understand that the relative dimensions of .the two solid systems ought to be 
such, that the relation between the distance of the disks and their diameters is 
the same in both parts, in order that similitude may exist between the two liquid 
figures at their origin and at each homologous instant of their transformations. 

Before giving an account of the employment of these figures of oil for the 
determination of the law of the durations, we shall take this opportunity of 
making several impoftant remarks. We shall only require to make iise of the 
law in question in that case, which in other respects is the most simple, where 



278 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

the cjliudcrri are formed in vacuo or in air, and are free from all external resist- 
ance, or, in other words, free upon tlie wlioTe of their convex gurface. Now our 
short cylinders of oil are formed in the alcoholic liquid, and it might be asked 
whether this circumstance does not exert some influence upon the proportion of 
the durations corresponding to a given proportion between the diameters of these 
cylinders. At first, a greater or less portion of the alcoholic liquid must be 
displaced by the modifications of the figures, so that the total mass to be moved 
in a transformation is composed of the mass of oil and this portion of the alco- 
liolic liquid ; but it is clear that in virtue of the similitude of the two figures of 
oil and that of their movements, the quantities of surrounding liquid respectively 
displaced will be to each oilier cxactlj', or at least apparently, as the two masses 
of oil ; so that the relation of the two entire masses will not be altered by this 
circumstance. Ileuce it is very probable that this circumstance Avill no longer 
exert any infiuence upon the proportion of the durations, except that the abso- 
lute valnes of these durations will be greater. On the other hand, the mutual 
attraction of the two liquids in contact diminishes the intensities of the pressures, 
(§ 8,) and consequently the configuring forces ; but it is easy to see that this 
diminution does not alter the relation of these intensities in the two figures. 
For let us imagine that at au homologous instant of the two transformations the 
alcoholic liquid becomes suddenly replaced by the oil, and let us conceive in 
the latter the surfaces of the two figures as they were at that instant. The 
configuring forces will then be completely destroyed by the attraction of the oil 
outside these surfaces, or, in other words, the external attraction will be at each 
point equal and opposite to the internal configuring force. If we now replace 
the alcoholic liquid, the intensities of the external attractions will change, but 
they will evidently retain the same relations to each other ; whence it follows 
that those corresponding to two homologous points taken upon both the figures 
will still be to each other as the configuring forces commencing at these points ; 
so that in fact the respective resultants of the external and internal actions at 
these two same points will be to each other in the same proportion as the two 
internal forces alone. Thus the attractions exerted upon the oil by tbe sur- 
rounding alcoholic liquid will certainly diminish the absolute intensities of the 
configuring forces, but they Avill not change the relations of these intensities, 
consequently they may be considered as not exerting any influence upon the 
durations. Ikit it is clear that this cause will nevertheless greatly increase the 
absolute values of the latter. For the two reasons which we have explained, 
the presence of the alcoholic liquid will then increase the absolute values of the 
two durations to a considerable extent ; but we may admit that it will not alter 
the relation of these values, so that this proportion will be the same whether the 
phenomenon take place in vacuo or in air. We shall, therefore, consider the law 
which we deduce from our experiments upon short cylinders of oil as inde- 
pendent of the presence of the surrounding alcoholic liquid, and this will be 
found to be supported by the nature of the law itself. 

But the exact formation of our short cylinders of oil requires (§ 46) that in 
these cylinders the ])roportion between the length and the diameter, or what 
comes to the same thing, between the sum of the lengths of the constriction and 
the dilatation and the diameter, exceeds but little the limit of stability. Now, 
in the transformation of cylinders sufficiently long to fuinish several spheres, 
which would be formed in vacuo or in the air, and free upon their entire convex 
surface, and the divisions of which have their normal length, the proportion of 
the sums of the lengths of one constriction and one dilatation to the diameter, 
which proportion is the same as that of the length of oue division to the diam- 
eter, Avonkl vary with the nature of the liquid, (§ 59,) and we are ignorant 
whether the law of the durations is independent of the value of this proportion. 
The law which we shall obtain in regard to short cylinders of oil can only there- 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 279 

fore be legitimately applied to cylinders of sufficient length to furnish several 
spheres supposed to be in the above conditions, in the case where these latter 
cylinders are formed of such a liquid that they would give for the proportion ija 
question a value but little greater than that of the limit o{ stability. 

Now this is the case of mercury, (§ GO,) and it is also very probable that of 
ail other very slightly viscid liquids, (§ CO.) Thus the law given b}' the short 
cylinders of oil will be exactly or apparently that which would apply to cylin- 
ders of mercury of sufficient length to furnish several spheres, supposing the 
latter to be produced in vacuo or in air, free at the whole of their convex surface, 
and of such length that the divisions in each of them would assume their normal 
length. Moreover, the same law w. uld be undoubtedly applicable to cylinders 
formed of any other very slightly viscid liquid, and supposed to be in the same 
conditions as the preceding. 

The law may possibly be completely general, i. e., it may apply to cylinders 
formed, always uuder the same circumstances, of any liquid whatever ; but our 
experiments do not furnish us with the elements necessary to decide this ques- 
tion. Lastly, the transformation of our short cylinders presents a peculiarity 
which entails another restriction. The two final masses into Avhieh a cylinder 
of this kind resolves itself being unequal, the smallest acquires its form of 
equilibrium considerably before the other, so that the duration of the phenom- 
enon is not the same. Hence we can only determine its duration iip to the 
moment of the rupture of the line ; consequently the proportion which we thus 
obtain for both cylinders will only be that of the durations of two homologous 
portions of the entire transformations. Moreover, the proportion of these partial 
durations is exactly that of which we shall have hereafter to make use. 

65. I made the experiments in question by employing two systems of disks, 
the respective dimensions of which were to each other as one to two; in the 
former, the diameter of the disks was 15 millimeters, and they Avcre 54 milli- 
meters apart ; and in the second their diameter was 30 millimeters, and their 
distance apart 108 millimeters. The cylinders formed respectively in these two 
systems weie therefore alike, and, as I have previously stated, (§ 63,) these 
two figures exactly maintained their similarity, as far as the eye was capable of 
judging, in all the phases of their transformations. It sometimes happened that 
the cylinder, when apparently well formed, was not at all persistent and imme- 
diately began to alter; this circumstance being attributable to some slight 
remaining irregularity in the figure, I immediately re-established the cylindrical 
form,* and the time was only taken into.accoiint when the figure appeared to 
maintain this form for a few moments. Another anomaly then sometimes pre- 
sented itself, Avliich consisted in the simultaneous formation of two constrictions 
with an intermediate dilatation ; this modification ceased when it had attained 
a very slightly marked degree, and the figure appeared to remain in the same 
state for a considerable period ; t then one of the constrictions became gradually 
more marked, Avhilst the other disappeared, and the transformation afterwards 
went oft in the usual manner. As this peculiarity constituted an exception to 
the regular course of the phenomenon, I ceased to reckon as soon as it showed 
itself, and I again re-established the cylindrical form. The estimation of the 
time was only definitively continued in those cases in which, after some per- 
sistence in the cylindrical form, a single constriction only was produced. 

I repeated the experiment upon each of the two cylinders twenty times, in 
order to obtain a mean result. As soon as one transformation was completed, 

* See the second note to paragraph 46. 

t We shall see, in the following series, to what this singular modification iu the figure id 
owing. 



280 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

I reunited the two masses to which it had given rise, and again formed the 
cylinder,* in order to proceed to a new measure of the time. 

The number of seconds are given beh)w ; each expresses the time which 
elapsed from the moment of the transformation of the cylinder to that of the 
rupture of the line. These periods were determined by means of a v/atch, which 
beat the |ths of a second. 



Cyl 


linder 


15 milliiuB. 


iu diameter. 


II 




II 


25.0 




36.4 


2G.G 




32.0 


28.0 




30.4 


SO.O 




24.6 


24.8 




32.6 


35.2 




33.8 


27.0 




33.8 


30.0 




20.2 


30.4 




28.6 


29.8 




32.6 


]\Iean 


29" 


.59. 



Cj'lindei 




30 millima. in diameter. 


n 


II 


59.6 


51.6 


73.0 


GS.O 


57.0 


73.6 


61.0 


G1.8 


67.8 


53.0 


60.0 


58.0 


63.6 • 


63.8 


54.2 


60.0 


61.0 


52.& 


52.6 


55.2 


Mean GO" 


.38. 



It is evident that the numbers relating to the same diameter do not difFe 
sufficiently from each other to prevent our regarding the proportion of the two 
means as clo!>cly approximating to- the true proportion of the durations. Now the 
proportion of these tAvo means is 2.04, i. e., almost exactly equal to that of the two 
diameters. ]\Ioreovcr, it is evident that in the case of each of the latter the 
greatest of the numbers obtained must correspond to that case \vhere the cylinder 
is formed in the most perfect manner; consequently it is probable that the pro- 
portion of these two greatest numbers also closely approximates to the true 
proportion of' the durations. Now, these two numbers are, on the one hand 
36.4, and on the other 73.6, and their proportion is 2.02, which number differs 
still less from 2, or from the proportion of the diameters. 

We may, therefore, adroit that the durations relating to these two cylinders 
are to cacli other as their diameters; whence we deduce this law, that the par- 
tial duration of the transformation of a cylinder of the same kind is in proportion 
to its diameter. 

1 have said (§ 64) that the law thus obtained would of itself furnish a new 
motive for believing that it would not change if our short cylinders of oil were 
produced in vacuo or in air. In fact the proportionality to the diameter is the 
simplest possible law; and, on the other hand, the circumstances under which 
the phenomenon is produced are less simple iu the case of the presence of the 
alcoholic liquid than they would be in that of its absence; consequent!};, if the 
law changed from the first to the second, it w^ould follow that a simplification 
in the circumstances would, on the contrary, induce a complication of the law, 
•which is not very probable. 
^1 • '_ ' 

* Tliis was cffcoteJ by conducting the large mass towards tbe small one, by means of the 
ring (;f which I sjioke in the first note Iu paiagia])h 4G. But care must be taken to prevent 
the ling, on soiiajating from the liquid liguie, from carrying a^ay with it any perceptible 
quantity i.if oil ; for this purpose, instead of making the entire ring adiiere to the great mass, 
1 left a small jiortion of ihe latter free, and, as its action was then insufficient to make the 
large mass reach the other, 1 aided it by gently pushing the oil with the extremity of the 
point of the syringe. On withdrawing the ring alter the reunion of the two masses, only a 
very small sphernle of oil separated from it in the alcoholic liquid, which in the next experi- 
ment I again united to" the rest of the oil by means of the ring itself, as also the largest of 
the spherules arising from the transformation of the line. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 281 

We may, tlierefore, I think, legitimately generalize the above law iu accord- 
ance with the whole of the remarks made in the preceding .^ection, and deduce 
the following conclusions : 

1. If we conceive a cylinder of mercury formed in vactio or in air, of sufficient 
length to furnish several spheres, its convex surface being entirely free, and its 
length such that the divisions assume exactly their normal length, the time 
which will elapse from the origin of the transformation to the instant of the 
rupture of the lines will be exactly or apjxa-rently projjortional to the diameter 
of this cylinder. 

2. The same very probably applies to a cylinder formed of any other very 
slightly viscid liquid, as water, alcohol, &c., and supposed to exist under the 
same circumstances. 

3. It i.s possible tliat this law is completely general, i. e., applicable to a cyl- 
inder formed, always under the same circumstances, of any kind of licjuid what- 
ever; but our experiments leave us in doubt on this point. 

66. Let us now enter upon the consideration of the absolute value of the time 
in question for a given diameter, the cylinder always being supposed to be pro- 
duced ill vacuo or iu air, of sufficient length to furnish several spheres, its entire 
convex surface free, and its length such that its divisions assume their normal 
length. It is clear that this absolute value must vary according to the nature 
of the liquid; for it evidently depends upon the density of the latter, upon the 
intensity of its configuring forces, and, lastly, upon its viscidity. The experi- 
ments which we have detailed give with regard to oil a very remote superior 
limit ; this results, first, from the two causes which we have mentioned in § 64, 
and which are due to the presence of the alcoholic liquid ; but with these two 
causes is connected a third, which we must make known. If we imagine a cyl- 
inder of oil formed under the above conditions, the simi of the lengths of a 
constriction and a dilatation will necessarily be much greater in regard to this 
cylinder than in regard to one of our short cylinders of oil of the same diameter; 
for in the former this sum is equivalent to the length of a division ; and in con- 
sequence of the great viscidity of the oil, this latter quantity must greatly 
exceed the length corresponding to the limit of stability. Now, it may be laid 
down as a principle, that, all other things being equal, an increase iu the sum 
of the lengths of a constriction and a dilatation- tends to render the transfiirmation 
more rapid, and consequently to abbreviate the total and partial durations of 
the phenomenon. In fact, for a given diameter, the more the sum in question 
difi'ers from the length corresponding to the limit of stability, the more the forces 
which produce the transformation must act with energy ; moreover, as the trans- 
formation ceases to take place immediately above the limit of stability, the 
duration ef the phenomenon may then be considered as infinite, whence it fol- 
lows that when this limit is exceeded, the duration passes from an infinite to a 
finite value, consequently it must decrease rapidly as it deviates 'from this limit; 
lastly, this is also confirmed by the results of observation, as we shall slow 
hereafter. Thus, even if it wefe possible to form in ractio or in air one of our 
very short cylinders of oil, consequently to eliminate the two causes of retarda- 
tion due to the presence of the alcoholic liquid, ^the duration relative to the 
cylinder would still exceed that which would relate to a cylinder of oil of the 
same diameter formed under the conditions we have supposed. 

I have said that the principle above established is confirmed by experiment, 
i. c, for the same diameter, the same liquid, and the same external actions, if 
any exist ; when, from any cause, the sum of the lengths of a constriction and a 
dilatation augments, the total and partial durations of the transformation become 
less. We shall proceed to make this evident. In the experiments of the pre- 
ceding section, the partial duration relating to the cylinder, the diameter of 
which was 15 millimeters, was, for instance, about 30 seconds, iJic mean, as shown 
by the table. Consequently, if we \tere to form iu the alcoholic liquid a similar 



282 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 

cylinder of oil, the diameter of which is 4 millimeters, the p.artial duration of 
thini, in virtue of the law which we have found, would be nearly equal to 
30'' 4- 4 

— — =t: 8". Now, in the nearly cylindrical figure of oil of § 47, Avhich 

lo 

figure is also formed in the alcoholic liquid, the moan diameter was (§ 50) about 
4 millimeters. In this and the preceding figure, the diameter, tlie liquid, and 
the external actions then arc tlie same; but in the former, the sum of th(> lengths 
of the constriction and the dilatation would only be equal to 4 millimeters, 
+ 3.0=: 14.4 millimeters, whilst in the second, this sum, which is equivalent to 
the length of a division, was {§ 56) approximatively 66.7 millimeters. Now, on 
observing this latter figure, we recognize easily that the duration of" its trans- 
formation is much less than 8". In truth, from the nature of the experiment, 
it is impossible with regard to this same figure to fix upon the commencement 
of the formation of a given constriction or dilatation, so that the complete dura- 
tion- should considerably exceed that which would be deduced by the simple 
i:ispoction of the phenomenon ; but the latter does not amount to one second, 
and there cannot be any douht that it would be going too far to extend the 
omplete duration, and a fortiori, the portion Avhicli terminates at the rupture 
of the lines, to two seconds. Thus in the case w'e have just considered, the sum 
of the length of a constriction and a dilatation becoming about four and a half 
times greater, the partial duration becomes at least four times less. 

67. But if, in reckoning the absolute duration in the case of one of our short 
cylinders of oil, we only obtain with regard to this liquid one upper limit,, and 
tJiis much too high, the cylinder of mercury in § 55 (which cylinder is formed 
in the air, and the length of Avhich in proportion to the diameter is sufficient for 
the divisions to have^assumcd exactly, or very nearly, their normal length) will 
furnish us, on the contrary, in regard to this latter liquid, with a limit which is 
probably more approximative and which will be very useful to us. 

First, in the case of this cylinder, the diameter of which, as we have said, 
was 2.1 millimeters, the transformation does not take place in a sufiicicntly short 
time for us to estimate with any exactitude the total duration of the phenomenon; 
I say the total duration, because in so rapid a transformation it would be very 
difiicult to determine the instant at which the rupture of the lines occurs. To 
approximate as closely as possible to the value of this total duration, I have had 
recourse to the following process. 

By successive trials, 1 regulated the beats of a metronome in such a manner, 
that on rapidly raising, at the exact instant at which a beat occurs, the system 
of glass strips belonging to the apparatus serving to form the cylhidev, (§ 50 and 
51,) the succeeding beat appeared to me to coincide with the termination of the 
transformation ; then having satisfied myself several times that this coincidence 
appeared very exact, I determined the duration of the interval between two 
beats, by counting the oscillations made by the instrument during two minutes, 
and dividing tljis time by the number of oscillations. I thus found the value 
0".39 for the interval in question. The total duration of the transformation of 
our cylinder of mercury may therefore- be valued approximatively at 0".39, or 
more simply, at 0".4. 

But the entire convex surface of this cylinder is not free, and its contact with 
the plate of glass must exert an influence upon its duration, both directly as 
well as by the increase which it produces in the length of the divisions! Let 
us examine the influence in question under tliis double point of view. 

The direct action of the contact with the plate is undoubtedly very slight ; for 
as soon as the transfoi-raation commences, the liquid must detach itself from the 
glass at all the intervals b(?tween the dilated parts, so as only to touch the solid 
plane by a series of very minute surfaces belonging to these dilated parts; 
consef|uently, if tUc direct action of the contact of the plate were alone eliminated, 
«. c, if wc could manage so that the euth-e A)nvex surface of the cylinder should 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 283 

be free, but that tbe divisious formed iu it should acquire the same length as 
before, the total duration would scarcely be at all diminished. 

There still remains the effect of the elongation of the divisions. The length 
of the divisions of our cyliuder is equal to 6.35 times the diameter, (§ 56,) 
whilst, according to the hypothesis of the complete freedom of the convex sur- 
face, this length would very probably be less than four times the diameter, 
(§ 60.) Now, in virtue of the principle established in the preceding section, this 
increase in the length of the divisions necessarily entails a diminution in the 
duration, which diminution is more considerable iu proportion as it occurs in 
the vicinity of the limit of stability ; consequently, if it could be managed so that 
the elongation in question should not exist, the total duration would be very 
considerably increased. Thus the suppression of the direct action of the con- 
tact of the plate would only produce a very slight dimiuution of the total dui-ation ; 
and the annihilation of the elongation of the divisions would produce, on the 
other hand, a very considerable increase in this same duration. If, then, these 
two influences Avere simultaneously eliminated, or, in other words, if the entire 
convex surface of our cylinder were free, the total duration of our transformation 
would be very considerably greater than the direct result of observation. 

Now, the quantity which we have to consider is' the partial, and not the total 
duration ; but, under the same circumstances, the first must be but little less 
than the second; for when the lines are about to break, the masses between 
which they extend even then approximate to the spherical form ; consequently, 
iu accordance with the conclusion obtained above, we must admit that the 
partial duration under our present consideration, i. e., that referring to the case 
of the complete freedom of the convex surface of the cylinder, would still exceed 
considerably the total duration observed, i. e., 0".4. 

Iu starting from this value 0".4 as constituting the lower limit corresponding 

to a diameter of 2.1 millimeters, the law of the proportionality of the partial 

duration to the diameter will immediately give the lower limit corresponding to 

any other diameter; we shall find, e.g., that for 6 millimeters this limit would be 

0".4 4- 10 

zzz 1".9, or more simply 2". 

.2.1 ^ ■^ 

If, then, we imagine a cylinder of mercury a centimeter in diameter, formed 
in vacuo or in air, of sufficient length to furnish several spheres, entirely free at 
its convex surface, and of such a length that its divisions assume their normal 
length, the time which will elapse from the origin of the transfoa-mation of this 
cylinder to the instant of the rupture of the lines will considerably exceed two 
seconds. 

68. It will not'be superfluous to present here a resume of the facts and laws 
which the experiments we have described have led us to establish with respect 
to unstable liquid cylinders. 

1. When a liquid cylinder is formed between two solid bases, if the proportion 
of its length to its diameter exceeds a certain limit, the exact value of which is 
comprised between 3 and 3.6, the cylinder constitutes an unstable figure of 
equilibrium. 

The exact value in question is that which we denominate the limit of stahiHty 
of the cylinders. 

2. If the length of the cylinder is considerable in proportion to its diameter, 
it becomes spontaneously converted, by the rupture of equilibrium, into a series 
of isolated spheres, of equal diameter, equally distant, having their centres 
upon the right line forming the axis of the cylinder, and in the intervals of 
which, in the direction of this axis, si^herules of different diameters are jdaced ; 
except that each of the solid bases retains a portion of a sphere adherent to its 
surface. 

3. The course of the phenomenon is as follows : The cylinder at first gradually 
swells at those portions of its length which arc situated at equal distauccs from 



284 THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OP A LIQUID MASS 

cacli other, whilst it hecomes thinner ;it the iutermodiate portions, and the length 
of the dilatations thus Ibrnied is equal, or nearly so, to that of the constrictions; 
these modilicatious become gradually more marked, ensuing with accelerated 
rapidity, until the middle of tlie constrictions has become rery thin; then, com- 
meueiugat the middle, the liquid rapidly retires in both directions, still, however, 
leaving the masses united two and two by an apparently cylindrical line; the 
latter then experiences the same modifications as the cylinder, except that there 
are in general only two constrictions formed, which consequently include a 
dilatation between them ; each of these little constrictions becomes in its turn 
converted into a thinner line, which breaks at two points and gives rise to a 
very minute isolated spherule, whilst the above dilatation becomes transformed 
into a larger spherule; lastly, after the rupture of the latter lines, the large 
masses assume completely the spherical form. All these ph(uaomena occur 
symmetrically as regards the axis, so that, throughout their duration, the figure 
is always a figure of revolution. 

4. Wc denominate divisions of a liquid cylinder, those portions of the cylinder, 
each of v/hich must furnish a sphere, whether we conceive these portions to exist 
in the cylinder itself, before they have begun to be apparent, or whether we take 
them during the transformation, i. c, whilst each of them is becoming modified 
so as to arrive at the spherical form. The length of a division consequently 
measures the constant distance Avhich, during the transformation, is included 
between the necks of two adjacent constrictions. 

Moreover, by normal length of the divisions, we denominate that which the 
divisions would assume, if the length of the cylinder to which they belong were 
infinite. 

In the case of a cylinder which is limited by solid bases, the divisions also 
assume the normal length when the length of the cylinder is equal to the pro- 
duct of this normal length by a Avhole number, or rather a whole number and a 
half. Then, if the second factor is a whole number, the transformation becomes 
disposed in such a maimer that during its accomplishment the figure terminates 
on one side with a constriction, and on the other with a dilatation; if the second 
factor is composed of "a whole number and a half, the figure terminates on eacH 
side in a dilatation. When the length of the cylinder fulfils neither of these 
conditions, the divisions assume that length which approximates the most closely 
possible to the normal length, and the transformation adopts that of the two 
above dispositions which is most suitable for the attainment of this end. 

5. In the case of a cylinder of a given diameter, the normal length of the 
divisions varies with the nature of the liquid, and with certain external circum- 
stances, such as the pi'esence of a surrounding liquid, or the contact of the 
convex surface of the cylinder with a solid plane. In all the subsequent state- 
ments we shall take the simplest case, i. e., that of the absence of external 
circumstances ; in other words, we shall always suppose that the cylinders are 
produced in vacuo or in air, and that they are free as regards their entire convex 
surface. 

G. Two cylinders of different diameters, but formed in the sam(; liquid, and 
the lengths of which are such that the divisions assume in each of them their 
normal length, become subdivided in the same manner, i. e, the respective 
normal lengths of the divisions are to each other as the diameters of these cyl- 
inders. In other Avords, when the nature of the liquid does not chang«3, the 
normal length of the divisions of a cylinder is proportional to the diameter of 
the latter. 

The same consequently applies to the diameter of the isolated spheres into 
which the normal divisions become converted, and to the length of the intervals 
which separate these spheres. 

7. The proportion of the normal length of the divisions to the diameter of the 
cylinder always exceeds the limit of stability. 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY 



285 



8. This proportion is greater as the liquid is more viscid <and as the config- 
uring forces in it are weaker. 

9. In the case of a cylinder of mercury, this proportion is mucli less than 6, 
and we may admit that it is less than 4. 

In the case of a cylinder composed of any other very slightly viscid liquid, 
such as water, alcohol, &;c., it is very probable that the proportion in question 
is very nearly 4. Hence, in the case of the latter liquids, we have for the 
probable approximative value of the proportion of the diameter of the isolated 
spheres resulting from the transformation and the diameter of the cylinder, the 
number 1.8:^ ; and for that of the proportion of the distance of two adjacent 
spheres to this same diameter, the uumbcr 2.18. 

10. If mr-rcury is the liquid, and the divisions have their normal length, the 
time which elapses between the origin of the transformation and the instant of 
the rupture of the lines, is exactly or apparently proportional to the diameter 
of the cylinder. 

This law very probably applies also to each of the other very slightly viscid 
liquids. 

This same law may possibly be general, i. e., it may be applicable to all 
liquids ; but our^experiments leave this point uncertain. 

11. For the same diameter, and when the divisions are always of their normal 
■ length, the absolute value of the time in question varies with the nature of the 

liquid. 

12. In the case of mercury, and with a diameter of a centimeter, this absolute 
value is considerably more than two seconds. 

13. When a cylinder is formed between two solid bases sufficiently approx- 
imated for the proportion of the normal length of the cylinder to the diameter 
to be comprised between once and once and a half the limit of stability, the 
transformation gives only a single constriction and a single dilatation ; we then 
obtain for the linal result only two portions of a sphere which are unequal in 
volume and curvature, respectively adherent to solid bases, besides interposed 
spherules. 

(to be continued in the next report.) 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 



COMl'ILEI-) FOR Tin: IXSTITLTIOX PRINCIPALLY FROM THE "AUS DF.R NATUR." 



There are two great forces of nature everywhere present and at every 
moment exerting tlicir influence, namely, gravitation and magnetism. They 
are similar in many particulars, all pervading and perhaps equally powerful. 
The magnetic phenomena of the earth, however, do not manifest themselves as 
freely to the senses as those of gravitation, and the naturalist is obliged to em- 
ploy refined, and, in some cases, complicated apparatus to study the laws of its 
operation. In. this article we purpose to present to our readers a sketch of the 
earlier discoveries relative to magnetism, and in doing so we shall also briefly 
explain the general principles of the science. 

There is found in different parts of the earth a mineral of a dark color, 
principally composed of iron and oxygen, which has long been an object of in- 
terest to the ignorant as well as the learned, principally on account of the attrac- 
tion which it exhibits for iron, and the wonderful property which it imparts to 
steel needles of pointing toward the poles of the earth. Its composition may 
bo expressed cheniically by th" formulse Fe + Fe2 03, being a compound 
of the first and second oxide of iron. It is called loadstone, and occurs most 
generally in primary mountains of gneiss ; chlorite slate, in primitive lime- 
stone, and sometimes in considerable masses in serpentine, and in trap. It is 
found in great quantity and purity at Ivosslay, in Sweden, in Corsica, on the 
island of Elba, in Norway, Siberia, Saxony, Bohemia, and in the Hartz moun- 
tains. A hill in Swedish Lapland, and Mount Pumachanche, in Chili, arc said 
to consist almost entirely of magnetic ore. Extensive beds of magnetic iron ore 
are found in various places in the United States, and in some of these occur 
masses of the mineral possessing polarity ; such as those at Marshall's island, 
Maine, at ^Magnet's Cove, Arkansas, at (iosheu, Chester county, Pennsylvania, 
and Franklin, New Jersey. 

It has been asserted that this mineral is not magnetic in its natural condition 
in the mine, but that the pieces only exhibit this property after having been 
exposed to the light ; but this statement has not been verified, and is apparently 
at variance with well-established facts. 

Th(i specimens of th*s mineral are usually so hard that they produce fire when 
struck with steel, and it is this circumstance which renders them so difficult to 
be worked into proper form for exhibiting in the best manner the magnetic 
piYtperty. 

The name magnet, by which the mineral is known to us, is said to be derived 
from ^lagnesia, a city in Asia Minor, where it was first found. The Roman 
poet Lucretius bears testimony to this in a passage of his celebrated poem on 
the nature of things, in which he states that the (xreeks called this stone mag- 
net because it was found in the country of the Magnesians. 

This statement is much more probable than the account given by Pliny, who 
derives the name of magnet from Magnes, a herdsman, who, in guarding his 
flock on ]\Iount Ida, f'oiuul himself suddenly held fast to a magnetic rock by the 
iron nails in his shoes and the iron point of his staff. But whatever may be 
the origin of the names by which the magnet has been designated in different 
languages, it is a remarkable fact that they show distinctly the idea that pre- 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 287 

vailed in every part of tlae world respecting the phenomenon of its attraction 
of iron. In those cases where the roots of the languages have no analogy- 
whatever, the ideas expressed by the terms are often identical. In some, in- 
deed, the attraction itself is alone expressed ; but in the majority of cases the 
mot'ire of attraction is embodied with it — a supposed affection for the iron — a 
love for it is expressed. It is the same in the European and Asiatic languages ; 
and as the magnet is found in all, or nearly all, the countries of the Old World, 
we can only suppose that it arose in most cases in every language independently 
of any other. Nor is this peculiarity wholly confined to the names amongst 
nations of the most poetic temperament, since even the Chinese have the same 
idea in their TJtsu-cJnj (the common name) or Jovestone. What may appear 
most surprising is, that the name of the magnet seldom occurs in the older 
poetry of any country ; but probably this arose from the unpoetic subject, 
namely, that of iron, with which it was coupled. In the'jjoetry of later times, 
however, allusion to the magnet often occurs, and in several beautiful passages, 
of our own it would be easy to point it out, both in expressing love and con- 
stancy — the former by its attractive, and the latter by its direct power. No 
phrase, indeed, is moxe familiar than to call the object of affection " the magnet." 

From all the records which refer to the subject, we must conclude that the 
ancients had at an early period a knowledge of some of the more obvious 
phenomena of magnetism, and that they possessed magnets of considerable lift- 
ing power. They appear also to have been acquainted with the means of in- 
creasing the attractive power of the loadstone by the application to its poles of 
what is called an armature, that is, by applying pieces of soft iron to the parts 
of the stone which exhibited the greatest attraction, and which, as we shall here- 
after see, are called its poles. Thus, Claudenus, in his work entitled Magnes, 
states that the wonderful stone gains power by contact Avith iron, and loses it 
again by the separation of this metal. 

The same author describes a performance in a temple in Avhich a statue of 
Venus, cut from a magnet, lifted an iron statue of Mars into the air. Lucian, 
in his work on the Syrian goddess, mentions a similar performance, in which a 
statue of Apollo was lifted before his ey^es by^ the priests without being touched, 
and remained suspended in the air. Pliny also relates that Dinocrates, an 
architect of Ptolemy Philadelphus, commenced to build a temple at Alexandria, 
in honor of Arsinoe, sister of the King, of which the vault was to be built of 
magnets, so that an iron statue of the former might be suspended in the air. 
This temple, hoAvever, was not finished because both Ptolemy and his archi- 
tect died before it could be completed. 

According to Cedreuus and Augustine, a similar performance Avas actually 
exhibited in a temple of antiquity. The former asserts that the statue of an 
ancient god Avas held suspended by magnetic power in the serapium at 
Alexandria, and the latt(^r, Avithout mentioning any particular temple, states 
that the suspension was such as to cause the people to believe that the statue 
AVas soaring in the air. Matheolus, a commentator of Galeuus, relates a similar 
story of the coffin of Mahomet, Avhich is said to soar in the air in a sanctuary 
built of magnetic stones. 

These statements,' though probably founded on a limited knoAA'ledge of mag- 
netic phenomena, are uoav known to be fabulous, since, after a full investigation 
of the subject, we are certain that it is impossible to suspend in mid air, Avilhout 
contact, a piece of iron by means of magnetism. The magnetic power diminishes 
very rapidly with the distance from the poles, and, in order that the iron should 
be suspended, it must be placed at the exact point in space at Avhich the at- 
traction of the magnet upwards Avould be equal to the force of gravity ddwn- 
Avards ; bi\t if it could be placed in this position, it Avould not retain it for a 
moment, since the slightest jar or the least breath of air Avould disturb the 
equilibrium, and the iron would immediately fall to the floor, or spriug up into 



288 HISTORY OF DISCOVERY ■ RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 

contact with the poles of the magnet. Some plausibility was, however, given 
to these stories, because magnets have been obtained which could sustain a 
heavy weight of iron when the latter was in contact with the poles of the latter. 
Thus, Wolf mentions examples of natural magnets which could support, by 
means of an armature, from sixteen to forty times, and even three hundred and 
twenty times their own weight. Dufay had in his possession a magnet of nine 
pounds in weight, which could hold seventy-six pounds. As a general rule, 
smaller magnets can support comparatively more than larger ones. Such, for 
example, as weigh from twenty to thirty grains will sometimes support fifty 
times their weight, whilst magnets Aveighing two pounds scarcely ever sustain 
ten times their own weight. According to Dr. Martin, Sir Isaac Newton had 
a magnet which was set in a finger-ring, and which, though only of three 
grains in weight, could hold seven hundred and forty-six grains. In the philo- 
sophical cabinet of the university at Dorpat there is a magnet weighing forty 
pounds, including the armature and a copper case, which is able to sustain 
eighty-eeven pounds. A still larger one is found in Tyler's museum, which 
Aveighs three hundred and seven pounds, the armature inclusive, and holds 
more than two hundred and thirty pounds. Not less considerable was the 
mngnet which John 1, King of Portugal, received as a present from the Em- 
peror of China, which weighed a little over thirty-eight pounds, and was able 
to support tAvo hundred and two jiounds. 

But to return to the direct continuation of our history, we should state that a 
tradition of a A^ery ancient date still exists in China respecting a mountain of 
magnetic ore rising in the midst of the sea, the intensity of attraction of Avhich 
is so great as to draAv the nails and iron bolts Avith Avhich the planks of a ship 
are fastened together from their places Avith such force as to cause the vessel to 
fall to pieces. This tradition is not confined to China, but is very general 
throughoxit all Asia; and the Chinese historians assign to the mountain a spe- 
cific place Avhich they call Tchang-hai, the southern sea, between Tonqiiin and 
Cochin- China. Ptolemy, also, in a remarkable passage in his geography, 
places this mountain in the Chinese seas. In a Avork attributed to St. Ambrose 
there is an account of one of the islands of the Persian Gulf, called Mammoles, 
in Avhich the magnet is found, and the pi-ecautions necessary to be taken in 
building ships Aviihout iron to navigate in that vicinity is distinctly specified. 
In tAA'o passages of the Avork of the Arabian geographer, Chenf-Edrlu, and in a 
remarkable one in the apocryphal Arabian translation of the "Treatise on 
Stones," attributed to Aristotle, the existence of this mountain is again specifi- 
cally stated. A reference to it also occurs in Vincent de Beauvais, a French 
Avriter, Avho had been in the holy Avars ; and, after his time, in the works of a 
groat number of European writers. 

A circumstance remarkable enough is, that the Chinese Avriters place this 
magnetic mountain in precisely the same geographical region in Avhich it is 
stated^ to exist by the author of the voyages of Sikbad the Sailor. This has 
been justly lookod upon as a confirmation of an opinion as to the oriental 
origin of a great number of the talcs, half fiction, half fact, Avhich are so univer- 
sally diffused among the legendary literature of every country as to appear 
indigenous in each of them. We would not, however, go to the extent of saying 
that all our nursery fictions are derived from the east, though it cannot be 
denied that a great number of them are of oriental origin.- 

It is not surprising that the magnet Avhich exhibited such extraordinary 
physical effects should have attributed to it Avonderful moral and medicinal 
powers. Accordingly avc find the belief entertained that it could enable its 
possessor to gain the confidence of princes, the affection of Avomen, and to 
secure conjugal love, as Avell as cure the gout, the headache, and the heartache. 
,ln a little book of secrets, extracted from Albertus Magnus and others, Avas one 
to ascertain Avhether your sweetheart did really love you, and another to dis- 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 289 

cover wliether your bride had man-ied you from motives of aflPectiou or other- 
wise. Both were to be eflPected by the mystical use of the maguet. 

It has ah-eady been meutioued that on the surface of a maguet there are two 
points at which the attractive power manifests itself with the greatest intensitv, 
and that these points are called poles. If a piece of soft iron is presented to 
one of these poles, the iron itself will become a magnet of inferior power, will 
exhibit two poles, and attract a second piece of iron ; this second piece of iron 
will in turn become a maguet, and attract a third, and so on. The power may 
thus be developed in a series of iron bars placed end to end, provided the original 
magnet has considerable power. If, instead of bars of iron, small particles, 
such as filings of iron, be placed under the influence of the magnet, they will 
adhere together in masses, and form a kind of beard around the poles, or, if they 
are sprinkled oil a sheet of paper placed over the magnet, they will be attracted 
to the poles and to each other, forming curves of great regularity and beauty.* 

These experiments were known to the ancients, and Lucretius must have seen 
them performed by the priests, since he describes them minutely in his poem 
to which we have previously alluded. In this he states that iron filings con- 
tained in a brass basin appeared to boil when a magnet was moved under them; 
that a row of iron rings would hang one below the other on a magnet, and that 
these experiments were performed by the priests in connexion with the Samo- 
thracean mysteries. A similar experiment was exhibited at a festival held every 
ninth year in honor of Apollo at Thebes, in Boetia, which consisted in hanging 
one iron ball on another. These experiments were undoubtedly made by means 
of a strong magnet inducing its power in pieces of soft iron, the^atter exhibiting 
the attraction as long as they were in metallic contact with the former, but im- 
mediately losing the power when the contact was severed. 

It is only when the iron has been rendered hard by hammering or twisting 
that it is able to retain a small amount of magnetism. But if, instead of soft 
iron, bars of tempered steel are placed in contact with the pole of a magnet, 
they will at first not be attracted as powerfully as those of iron ; but if they 
are allowed to remain in contact for some time, or if rubbed with the magnet, 
they will fully acquire the magnetic property, and retain it after they have 
been sejiarated from the inducing magnet. 

If a bar of steel, which has thus been rendered permanently magnetic, and 
of which its poles are at its ends, be placed on a piece of cork, and allowed to 
float horizontally on water, or if it be supported on a firm point at its centre of 
gravity, or, still more simply, by a fine thread, so as to have free motion in 
every direction horizontally, it will not remain at rest indifi'erently in any 
direction, but will turn itself so as to point Avith its poles to a definite region of 
the earth, the one to the north, and the other to the south. If two such movable 
magnetic bars are brought near each other, the poles of both which point to the 
north, and also those which point to the south, will repel each other, whilst the 
pole which points to the north in the one will attract the pole which points to 
the south in the other, and vice versa. 

The directive property of a freely suspended magnetic bar towards certain 
points of the horizon, which is generally called the polarity of the needle, was 
not known to western nations as early as the attractive power of the magnet 

* A very interesting experiment, which may be called the exhibition of magnetic spectres, 
consists in tracing on a polished plate of steel, such as the blade of a wide handsaw, an image 
in outline with a pencil, and afterwards passing slowly and with some pressure along the 
lines of this image one of the tapered poles of a straight magnet of considerable power. If a 
sheet of white paper is aftenvards pasted smoothly over this steel surface, and against this, 
while it is held vertically, fine iron filings are projected from a box with a perforated cover, 
the image will start into existence on the blank paper, as if by magic, in lines of bristling 
fihngs. 

The image is interestingly shown by drawing a serpentine line on a long saw blade, to 
represent a snake ; the configuration of the filings gives a peculiar effect to tins exhibition. 

19 s 



290 HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATITE TO MAGNETISM. 

for iron. It is true that King Solomon is said to have been acquainted with 
the u.'jc of the mariner's compass, and the Ilebrew Parvaim, to which he sent 
his vi'ssels for treasures, is said to have been no other country than Peru itself; 
but, since Solomon employed Phenician seamen, the compass would necessarily 
ifave been known to the Phenicians, and from these the Greeks and the Romans 
would most certainly have learnt its application. 

The claims of the Chinese to the discovery of the directive power of the 
magnet, and its application to navigation, has long been affirmed and denied ; 
but it has of late been defended by an author of much learning and ability, 
namely, Ivlaproth, in a letter to Humboldt. It is difficult to mention any useful 
contrivance which is not in some degree known to this singular people, or any 
period in histoiy when they did not know it. The great obstacle which has 
stood in the way of admitting the claims of the Chinese to many of these in- 
ventions is the high antiquity to which their records profess to ascend, and their 
consequent incompatibility with our own received chronology; but whoever has 
looked with any degre6 of attention upon the fragments of their scientific his- 
tory, and the incidental mention made of things which were familiar to the 
writers, but which did not form the principal object of the record, cannot fail to 
be struck with the apparent general consistency which runs through all their 
claims to high antiquity, and to be forced to the conclusion that there is still 
wanting a key to that consistency which is not furnished by the sweeping 
charge of the forgery of their. annals. 

It has been said that the fine arts of China appear more like being in a con- 
dition of gradual decay than in a state of freshness and energy, and that it may 
be possible that their arts, as well as those of Egypt, were transferred from some 
older people, who were in a condition of decline ; but this is mere conjecture, 
unsupported by any evidence, either written or oral. In regard to the Chinese, 
it would appear, from the little progress they have made since they became 
known to history, and their want of knowledge and appreciation of the scien- 
tific principles on which art is founded, that their condition is just such as 
would be produced in an ingenious people in a long time by the accidental dis- 
coveries of facts, and their empirical application to the wants and conveniences of 
life. After a certain time, such a people would make no further progress ; the 
facts which could be gathered from casual observation would be exhausted, and 
the advance in civilization, as well as the increase in population, would become 
exceedingly tardy. 

Duhalde, in his account of China, states that the inhabitants of that country 
were acquainted with the polarity of the needle in the earliest times ; that hun- 
dreds of years before our era they used, in their land excursions, an instrument 
in which the movable arm of a human figure invariably pointed towards the 
south, as a means of assistance in finding their way through the grass-covered 
plains of Tartary. Even as early as the third century of our era, about sevea 
hundred years b(;fore the introduction of the mariner's compass into the Euro- 
pean seas, it is asserted that Chinese vessels sailed on the Indian ocean, directed 
by magnetic polarity pointing towards the south. Humboldt has shown that, 
according to the "Fdu-Tsaou," (a work on medicine and natural history, 
written four hundred years before the time of Columbus,) the Chinese suspended 
the magnetic needle by a fibre of silk, and found that it did not point directly 
towards the south, but deviated somewhat towards the southeast. 

The directing property of the magnetic needle, and its use in navigation, 
became known in Europe at a considerably later period. It is mentioned, for 
the first time, by Are Erode, an Icelandic historian, who was born in 1068, ac- 
cording to the testimony of Snorro Sturleson, and who must have written his 
History of the Discovery of Iceland towards the end of the eleventh century. 
In this work he states, in the most unequivocal manner, that, in his time, the 
directing property of the magnetic stone was known. He also states that in 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 291 

the year 868 Foke Vilgerdarson, tbe third discoverer of this island, a noted 
pirate, sailed from llogalaud, in Norway, in search of Iceland, or Gardarsholm, 
as it was then called, and took with him as pilots three ravens. To consecrate 
these to their important pnrpose, he instituted a grand sacrificial ceremony at 
Smoersund,' when his ship was at anchor ready to sail; for, says Are Frode, the 
seamen in the northern regions were as yet unacquainted with the use of the lead- 
ing stone. By the term leading stone the writer designated the natural magnet, 
which, in English, is still called loadstone or Icadstone. It may, however, be 
presumed, from this form of (expression, that in Frode's time the compass pro- 
perly was not yet known, but that the natural magnet was suspended by a 
thread. According to the testimony of Hansteen, mention is made of the leidar- 
Btone or solar-stone, in the vSturhinga Saga. Gilbert, in his celebrated work 
"De Magneto," relates that, according to the report of Flavins Blondus, the 
Amalfitanes (Amalfis?) in Naples, first, about the year 1300, constructed and 
applied the mariner's compass, and this according to the direction of John 
Gioja, one of their fellow-citizens. He presumes, however, that more probably 
the knowledge of this compass had been brought from China to Italy, by Paul 
Venetus, about the year 1260. Gioja, of Amalfi, was, nevertheless, at least the 
first who- placed the magnetic needle on a point, and divided the compass, ac- 
cording to the points of the horizon, into eight divisions. 

That the mariner's compass, however, was known at an earlier period in the 
south of Europe, although in a rude form, is evident from a passage of a satirical 
poem, which was published by Guyot de Provins in 1203, and of which the 
original manuscript is still preserved in the royal (imperial) library at Paris. 
It is mentioned in this poem that the seaman easily finds the northern direction 
by the assistance of an ugly, black stone, called mariniere, and this even under 
a cloudy sky ; that for this purpose it was only necessary to rub a needle with 
the stone, and then, attaching the former to a straw, allow it to swim on 
water, when it Avould point to the north. Cardinal Vitri, who lived about the 
year 1200, also makes mention of the magnetic needle in his history of Jerusa- 
lem, and remarks, moreover, that it is of inestimable value to mai-iners. 

That the mariner's compass was known to northern nations is evident from 
the history of Norway, by Torfceus, in which it is stated therein that Yarl 
Stula was rcAvarded with a compass for a poem written on the death of the 
Swedish coiint Byrgeres. The directive force of the magnet is also distinctly 
alluded to in a letter to Peter Peregrinus de Marcourt, which was written 
towards the end of the thirteenth century. This letter was directed to " Sige- 
rius de Foucancoui-t, a soldier in the service of magnetism," and contains a de- 
scription of the magnet, of the means to find its poles, and of its peculiar 
attractive property in regard to iron, and finally proves that the extremity of 
the magnet which turns towards the north is attracted by the one that tm-ns 
towards the south. One of the oldest treatises on magnetism is contained in a 
Latin manuscript of Peter Alsiger, which is found in the University library at 
Leyden, and was written in 1269. This manuscript, which seems to have been 
composed for the instruction of a friend, is divided into two parts, of which the 
first contains ten, and the second three, chapters. In the second chapter of the 
second part the mariner's compass is distinctly and perfectly described ; and 
what is still more interesting, the author does not only mention the variation 
of the magnetic needle from the true north pole, but also gives an account of 
the accurate observations which he had made in regard to the amount of this 
deviation. " Observe well," says he, " that the ends of the magnet, and those 
of the needle rubbed with it, do not accm-ately turn toward the poles, but that 
the end which points toward the south inclines somewhat to the west, and the 
one pointing to the north in an equal proportion to the east." The magnitude 
of this deviation amounts, according to numerous observations, to five degrees. 



292 niSTORY OF discovery relative to magnetism. 

The variation of the magnetic needle from the meridian, or its declination, as 
it it5 called, was known before the time of Columbu?', to whom its discovery has 
been generally ascribed. His son, Ferdinand, in the biography of his father, 
written in Italian, and published at Venice, in 1571, relates that Columbus, on 
the ]4th of September, (on the 13th according to Irving,; 1492, wlien he was 
at the distance of 200 leagues from the isle of JPerro, first observed the deviation 
of thd magnetic needle, "a phenomenon, which," as the recorder says, "had 
never been observed before." Columbus found that at the dusk of evening the 
needle, instead of pointing towards the north star, deviated about half a point, 
viz., from five to six degrees towards the northwest, and on the following morn- 
ing still more. Astonished at this discovery, he observed the needle for three 
days, and found that the deviation increased the further he advanced to the 
west. At first he did not call the attention of the crew to this phenomenon, well 
knowing how easily they might be excited to revolt. The sailors, however, 
soon became aware of the fact, and, on account of it, fell into the greatest con- 
sternation. It appeared to them that the very laws of nature were changing as 
they advanced on their adventurous career, and that they were entering into a 
new world governed by entirely unknown influences. They saw the compass 
losing its truthful character, and asked with alarm what would become of them 
without this guide on the trackless inhospitable ocean? Columbus had to tax 
all his ingenuity to appease their terror. He stated to them that the needle 
does not direct itself strictly towards the polar star, but towards another invisi- 
ble point in the sky, and that the variation of the magnetic needle was not due 
to a change in the compass, but to the motion and the diurnal revolution of this 
celestial point around its pole. The confidence which the sailors had in the 
astronomical knowledge of Columbus gave weight to this explanation, and their 
excitement was consequently calmed. Although, as we have seen before, the 
deviation was known two hundred years previous to the voyage of Columbus, 
it is, however, evident from the facts just related that he made another discovery 
of not less importance, namely, that of the difference of the declination in differ- 
ent places of the earth. 

We find more accurate notions of the declination of the magnetic needle, but 
these arc as late as the middle of the seventeenth century. In the year 1541 
the deviation of the needle from the meridian at Paris was found to be from 
seven to eight degrees to the east; in 1550 from eight to nine degrees ; and, in 
1580, eleven degi'ees and a half to the east. Norman, who first observed the 
deviations in London, found it to be 11^ degrees in 1596, and Cellibrand, at 
the same place, in 1034, four degrees towards the east. 

We have seen by what precedes that the magnetic needle does not point in 
all parts of the earth precisely to the geometric pole of the globe, and also that 
the amount of the deviation is not the same in all places. But it is important 
further to remark that a magnetic bar, free to move in every direction, will not 
remain stationary if placed in a horizontal position ; on the contrary, in the 
northern hemisphere the north end of the bar will turn down towards the earth, 
and in the southern hemisphere the south end will assume a similar position. 
The bar will only remain horizontal in the region of the equator. The discovery 
of this important property, which is called tlie dip or inclination of the magnetic 
needle, has been generally ascribed to Robert Norman, (whose name has just 
been mentioned in connexion with the variation,) an Englishman, an experienced 
sailor, and, as William Gilbert calls him, an artist of genius. It is said the dis- 
covery was made by Norman in the year 1576, but, according to authentic 
documents, it was known as early as 1544 to George Hartmann, vicar of the 
church of St. Sebaldus, in Nuremberg. Hartmann was in correspondence with 
Albert, Duke of Prussia, one of those enlightened minds who recognized the 
importance of the sciences even at their early dawn. Their correspopdence, com- 
mencing in 1541, was principally on scientific subjects, but the letter, which is 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 293 

of the most interest to us at present, is dated March 4, 1544, and contains accu- 
rate descriptions of three magnetic discoveries which Hartmann had shown the 
year before, at Nuremberg, to Ferdinand, King of Bohemia, a brother of Charles 
V. This letter is found in the secret archives at Berlin, and was published 
by Mosor. Hartmann states in this that he had discovered that the extremity 
of the needle, which is intended to point to the north, must be rubbed with the 
end of the stone which points to the south, and that a needle so rubbed which 
has previously been accurately balanced so as to rest horizontally, will, after 
the magnetization, incline or dip at one end below the horizon. Further, that 
a large bar of iron placed vertically becomes so strongly magnetic as to repel 
with its lower end the northern point of a compass needle. This fact is best 
shown by using a large bar and a small needle. 

The fact that rusted ii-on bars, which have remained for a long time in a 
vertical position, exhibit always more or less magnetism, was first observed in 
1590 by Julius Cwsar, a surgeon, at Rimini, who observed that an iron rod, 
which had been placed for the support of the wall of the tower of the church of 
the Augustines, had become magnetic. Gassendi observed the same, in 1G30, 
in an iron cross which had been 'thrown down by lightning from the church 
tower at Aix. He found that the rusted extremities of this cross had the qual- 
ities of the loadstone. When, about the year 1722, the iron cross whigh had 
adorned for several centuries the spire of the church tower at Delft was taken 
down for repair, the celebrated Loewenhoeck, on the suggestion of a stranger, 
as he says, obtained a piece of the iron from one of the laborers, but no influ- 
ence was exhibited by it on the compass needle. Some time afterwards, Ifowever, 
the same laborer brought him a rusted piece from the foot of the vertical bar, 
which exhibited more powei" of attraction than the two natural magnets which 
Loewenhoeck possessed. 

Whilst magnetism made but slow progress by incidental observations, it re- 
ceived suddenly a powerful impulse from the investigations of Dr. William 
Gilbert, of Colchester, England. This distinguished individual, who was phy- 
sician to Queen Elizabeth, published in 1600 his "Dissertation on the Physiology 
of the Magnet," a work which not only contained everything known of magnet- 
ism and electricity up to that period, arranged in a truly scientific manner, but 
also a numerous and ingenious series of investigations on the subject by himself. 
He was the first who advanced the proposition that the earth itself acts, in all 
its parts, as a great magnet, in opposition to the opinions of those who, either 
with Olaus Magnus, supposed that there existed great magnetic mountains of 
such power that ships, in the construction of which iron had not been entirely 
omitted, Avould be attracted and held fast, or with those who placed the power 
of attraction in the sky, as, for instance, the astrologer, Lucas Gauricus, who 
supposed that a great magnet existed under the tail of Ursa Major, a constella- 
tion in the northern hemisphere to which all compass needles pointed. Gilbert 
logically refuted these and similar fanciful hypotheses? and substituted his own 
rational theory in their stead — a theory which, in its general principles, has 
been retained to the present time. He also attempted to explain, but with less 
success, the declination of the needle by ascribing magnetism merely to the 
solid parts of the earth, and not to the water, so that the needle would incline 
towards the continent, because a greater amount of magnetic power existed there. 

It could, moreover, not escape the sagacity of a man like Gilbert, that the 
magnetic terminology, as he found it, was liable to great inconsistencies. Even 
in our days we are still accumstomed to call the end of the needle which points 
to the north its north pole, and the one pointing to the south its south pole. 
This form of expression is, nevertheless, incorrect, for if we admit that the 
earth is a great magnet, and that in the vicinity of the geographical north pole 
a magnetic north pole is situated, this north pole could only attract the south 
pole of another magnet, and consecyiently the end of the magnetic needle 



294 HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 

which turns towards it shoukl be called the south pole. lu like manner the 
end of the needle which points to the south should be called its north pole. 
Gilbert objected to the use of this inconsistency, and introduced in its stead the 
correct appellation, lie did not succeed, however, in abolishing the old terms, 
altliou^-h physicists agreed with him, and even some of the more recent 
writers un this subject have adopted his forms of expression. This is the case 
with the French authors on magnetism, and some of the English physicists 
have endeavored to avoid the difficulty by using the term north end for the 
extremity of the needle which points to the north, and the south end for that 
which is directed to the south. 

The fact was still unknown, even to Gilbert, that the deviation of the mag- 
netic needle changes with time, and, upon the whole, there is but little trust- 
Avorthy testimony to show to whom the discovery of the secular variation 
of the magnetic needle is to be attributed. Although observations made at 
Paris and London exhibit in different years a difference in the variations, the 
idea could not be seized upon at once that the needle changed its position from 
one year to another ; on the contrary, it appears that the differences observed 
were considered as errors of the observations. Gellibrand, however, who observed 
the variation in 1G34, in London, hnding it different from that observed by 
Gunter in 1C22, and that by Burrows in 1580, concluded that the deviation was 
variabfe, and therefore the discovery is generally ascribed to him. Although 
the French had observed as early as 1541, 1550, 1580, and 1603, in Paris, four 
different variations, and although Gunter, in Loudon, had also 'found a devia- 
tion different from that of Burrows, the honor of the discovery cannot be 
ascribed to any of them, since the one who makes a discovery is he who first 
clearly perceives the essential particulars of the phenomena and gives an intel- 
ligible account of them; for this reason, and, indeed, with justice, the dis- 
covery of Uranus is ascribed to Herschel, although Flamstead had observed 
it nearly a hundred years before, but had mistaken it for a fixed star. The 
fact of the yearly variation of the magnetic needle was adopted and defended 
by Gassendi, in France, and was soon generally admitted, although it was 
thought at the time that the motion was regular, or that the north end of 
the needle moved every year an equal amount towards the west. It was, 
however, soon discovered that its progress was far from being regular, but it 
was still thought that the motion was so stow that the needle might be con- 
sidered stationary at least for a few days. But this also proved to be incor- 
rect when Father Guy Tuchart, in 1682, observed the deviation in the city of 
Louvo, in Siam, in presence of the King ; he found it on four, and again on 
three successive days to assume different directions, either increasing or decreas- 
ing. The celebrated mechanist, Graham, in London, repeated these observa- 
tions with better instruments in 1722, and discovered that the needle changes 
its position not only from day to day, but even from hour to hour ; that, indeed, 
it does the same continitally, and is, in fact, in a state of perpetual motion. 
Assessar Swedenborg, in his treatise on magnetism, expressed a doubt as to the 
correctness of these propositions, and asserted that they were based upon errors 
of observation. This induced the celebrated professor Celsius, at Upsala, to 
repeat the observations of Graham. As early as in 1740 he communicated a 
few results to the public, which showed the correctness of Graham's discovery. 

Celsius was also the first who, in company with Hiarter, observed the remark- 
able and violent disturbances of the magnetic needle Avhich accompany the appear- 
ance of the aurora borealis, and it was he who also first established the fact of 
the simultaneous motion of the needle at different places on the earth. He had 
induced Graham, in London, to make observations simultaneously with him, in 
order to ascertain whether the disturbances of the needle depends on local 
changes, or on those affecting large portions of the earth. After the death of 
Celsius, Olav Hiarter continued his observations and published the records of 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 295 

the whole. From the comparison of these observations with those of Graham 
it was found that in Europe the needle is furthest to the east in the morning from 
eight to nine o'clock, and furthest to the west in the afternoon from one to two 
o'clock, when it again proceeds eastwardly imtil eight or nine o'clock in the 
evening, when it either remains stationary for a few hours, or makes a small 
movement of a few minutes back towards the west. During the night it gener- 
ally moves somewhat towards the east, so that in the morning at eight o'clock 
it is found a little more to the eastwaid than in the evening. 

About the year 1756, John Canton, in London, made observations on the 
daily deviations, or of the variations, as they were called, from which the 
result was deduced that the regular daily motion about the time of the sum- 
mer solstice is nearly twice as great as at the winter solstice. In the first 
instance, it amounts to about ^, in the latter to about |- of a degree. Can- 
ton endeavored to explain the daily. western and the subsequent eastern varia- 
tion of the needle by referring it to the influence of solar heat on the mag- 
netism of the earth. He supposes, since magnetism is weakened by heat, that, 
if iii the forenoon the sun warms the eastern parts of the earth, the needle 
will be more attracted towai'ds the western parts, and in a similar manner in 
the afternoon, when the sun has weakened the western side, the greater in- 
fluence of the eastern will draw the needle more towards that direction. 

Before proceeding further in the exposition of this subject, we are obliged to 
take a step backwards and direct our attention to an individual who produced 
an epoch in the theory of the magnetism of the earth. We allude to Dr. 
Edmund Halley, of England, who in 1683 published his theory of terrestrial 
magnetism, which, in some particulars, still forms the basis of our present 
theories. He advanced the hypothesis that there were four magnetic poles, 
two in the vicinity of each geometrical pole of the earth, so that in difierent 
parts of the earih the needle always directs itself in such a manner that 
the influence of the nearest poles overcomes that of the more distant one. He 
further assumed that the pole which at that time was nearest to England was 
situated on the meridian of Cape Landsend, at the distance of seven degrees 
from the north geometrical pole, and that the other magnetic north pole was on 
the meridian of Calitbrnia, at the distance of 15 degrees from the north geometrical 
pole. He placed one of the two magnetic south poles 16 degrees from the geo- 
graphical south pole, and 95 degrees Avest from London, and the other, the 
strongest of the four, at the distance of 20 degrees from the south pole, and 120 
degrees west from London. 

In order also to explain the successive variations of deviations, he advanced 
the remarkable hypothesis that our earth is a hollow sphere within which is a 
solid globe ; that the two revolve around the same centre of gravity in nearly, 
though not in exactly the same time ; and furthermore, that the solid globe is 
separated from the exterior hollow shell by a liquid medium. He also supposed 
that the internal globe, as well as the external shell, have each two magnetic 
poles, and that the changing deviation of the needle was produced by the want 
of perfect simultaneousness in the rotation of the two spheres. According to 
this hypothesis the magnetic poles of the external shell, while they do not 
coincide with the geometric poles of the same shell, always retained the same 
position, and, therefore, if the needle was only affected by them, the variation 
would always remain the same at the same place ; but the needle being also 
acted vipon by the magnetic poles of the interior globe, and as these slowly 
change their position relative to those of the exterior shell on account of the 
difference of velocity in the revolution of the two spheres, a change in the 
direction of the needle on all points of the earth's surface must be constantly 
going on. 

Also after a complete rotation of the exterior within the interior sphere the 
variation must again become the same. This hypothesis created at the time a 



296 HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 

great sensation, and in order to verify it and to discover from observations the 
law of the variation of the magnetic needle, Halley obtained, through the in- 
fluence of King William, the command of a small vessel of the royal navy, iu 
which he made two voyages in the yc-ars 1G98 and 1699. lie soon returned 
from the first voyage on account of his crew having fallen sick after })assing 
the equal or, and also on account of the mutiny of Lis lieutenant. In 1699 he 
sailed again and cruised iu the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in various directions. 
From these voyages he gathered a sufficient number of observations to enable 
him to prepare his celebrated prospective chart of the variations of the mag- 
netic needle. 

On this chart he counected with continued lines all the places on the earth 
where similar and equal deviation of the needle had been observed, and thus 
produced a projection of what is called the lines of equal variation, or isogenic 
lines. These lines afford a ready means of presenting at once to the eye the 
totalit}' of the phenomenon. They are also sometimes called Ilalley's lines, 
although, as may be inferred from a passage in Kircher, he was not the first 
who constructed such charts. Kircher, , in fact, states, at page 443 of his 
Nautica Magnetica, that a Father Chr. Burrus had thought he had discovered 
a process by which longitude at sea might be determined, and had on account 
of it claimed a reward of 50,000 ducats from the King of Spain. His state- 
ment is as follows : On his voyage to India he observed, under the widely dif- 
ferent meridians, the deviation of the magnetic needle, and collected also obser- 
vations made by others. These observations, the number of which was not 
inconsiderable, he projected on a map, and then connected the places of equal 
variation by lines, which he called chalyboclitic lines. He asserted confidently 
that, by means of these lines, he could accurately determine the geographical 
longitude of a place by merely observing its magnetic variation. The insuffi- 
ciency of this method was, however, recognized at the time. Gilbert made a 
similar proposal for determining longitude; but, instead of applying the varia- 
tion, he thought to use the inclination or dip of the magnetic needle to obtain 
the object sought. 

Enler, the great geometrician, also occupied himself with the theory of the 
magnetism of the earth, and endeavored to show that the hypothesis of Halley 
respecting four magnetic poles was unnecessary, and to prove from mathemati- 
cal deduction that the assumption of the existence of two poles was sufficient; 
he determined the position of them for the year 1757. The north pole was be- 
yond latitude 76"" north, and longitude 96° west from Teneriffe; the south pole at 
latitude 58° south, and longitude 158° west. 

In recent times a large number of the most accurate and valuable observa- 
tions on the declination and inclination of the magnetic needle, and on the force 
of terrestrial magnetism in different parts of the earth, and especially in the 
neighborhood of the equator, have been made by Alexander von Humboldt 
during his travels. It was principally from these observations that the French 
physicist, Biot, endeavored to give an improved theory of the magnetism of the 
eai-th. He assumes in this theory that the magnetic poles are not situated on 
the earth's surface, but in its centre, and in close proximity to each other, and 
by means of a somewhat complicated mathematical process he succeeds in 
bringing the results of observations into apparent harmony with his theory. 

But one of the most zealous promoters of our knowledge of the magnetism 
of the earth is Professor Christopher Hansteen, of Christiana, who, iu 1817, 
published his work entitled " Investigations relative to the Magnetism of the 
Earth." An incident in the beginning of the year 1807 gave the first impulse 
to these investigations. Examining a physical globe constructed for the Cos- 
mographical Society of Upsala, Hansteen found, at its south pole, an elliptic 
figure, designated by the name of ''magnetic polar region,'' and it was further 
inscribed on the globe that this naagnetic polar region had been delineated by 



HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 297 

"Wilke from observations Biade by Captains Cork and Fourneaux. One focus 
of the ellipsis was designated as the stronger, the other as the weaker region. 
Hausteen was induced to compare these statements with the observations, and 
the comparison being satisfactory, he was led to investigate more tlioroughly 
the theory of Halley, which, until then, he had looked upon as a wild specula- 
tion. The result of these investigations was that he became a convert to the 
theory of the existence of four movable magnetic poles. 

In 1811 the Royal Danish Society of Sciences had offered the annual prize 
for the best answer to the question, "Whether it is necessary, in order to ex- 
plain the magnetic phenomena of the earth, to admit the existence of several 
magnetic axes, or whether one is sufficient?" At the beginning of the following- 
year Hausteen presented the greatest part of his work, as far as it was com- 
pleted, and the society crowned his labors with its principal prize. 

The most important part of Hansteen's work is that in which he treats of 
the number, the position, and the motion of the magnetic poles. From all the 
observations collected by him on the variations of the magnetic needle, he con- 
cludes that there are four points ou the earth through which the lines of equal 
deviation pass, viz., a stronger and a weaker one in the vicinity of each 
geometric pole. Both the stronger poles, as well as the two weaker ones, are 
situated opposite to each other, as if they were extreme points of the same axes. 
All four have a regular rotation, the two northern ones from west to east, and 
the southern ones from east to west. 

In order to elucidate the nature of the magnetism of the earth in each of its 
relations, Hausteen also undertook to make numerous observations, and even 
made a journey to Siberia, in order to carry on his investigations within the 
region of greatest intensity of the magnetic phenomenon. This journey, besides 
directly enriching our knowledge of the magnetism of the earth with valua- 
ble results, had other consequences of great importance ; it called the attention 
of the Russian government to this subject, and thus prepared the way for the 
labors of Alexander von Humboldt, at whose request the Emperor of Russia, 
with great liberality, ordered a number of magnetic observatories to be erected 
in his empire. Humboldt, immediately after his return from his travels iu 
America, (1799, 1S04,) had erected, iu a garden at Berlin, an observatory, ex- 
clusively devoted to magnetism, and in which observations were made, often 
from four to six consecutive days, every half hour without interruption. The 
proposal of Humboldt, to erect similar observatories in other places of G-ermany, 
was not responded to partly on account of the political disturbances which were 
then visiting that country, partly because its celebrated citizen was intrusted 
with a mission from his government to France, and was thus hindered, for the 
time, in'the pursuit of his favorite object. Arago commenced in 1818, at Paris, 
an exceedingly valuable series of magnetic observations, and by comparing them 
with such as were made simultaneously at Kasan, he confirmed the assertion of 
his friend Humboldt in regard to the importance and necessity of corresponding 
observations. 

Humboldt returned to G-ermany in 1827, and established in the autumn of 
1828 a continuous and regular series of observations. In consequence of his 
solicitation, the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg and the curator of the 
University at Kasan, erected an observatory at St. Petersburg and Kasan, and 
under the protection of the chief of the mining corps. Count Canain, magnetic 
stations were established from the south of Russia through the whole of northern 
Asia. The Russian Academy sent George Fuss to Pekin, where he erected 
a magnetic observatory in the garden of the Greek convent, in which Kowanko 
made a continued series of observations corresponding with those of all the 
other stations. Admiral Greig also erected a magnetic observatory at Nico- 
lajeff, in the Crimea ; and, at the instance of Humboldt, a subterranean mag- 
netic station was established under the supervision of Professor Reich, in the 



298 HISTORY OF DISCOVERY RELATIVE TO MAGNETISM. 

miues at Freiberg, in Saxony, whilst Arago, at his own exjjense, had a decli- 
nation compass placed in the interior of Mexico, at the height of 6,000 feet above 
the level of the sea. On the suggestion of Admiral Labord, the secretary of 
the navy of France directed the establishment of a magnetic observatory in 
1836, at Rcikiavik, in Iceland, and Ilumboldt sent instruments for an observa- 
tory to Havana. 

In 1832 a new epoch commenced in the history of magnetic investigations; 
in that year Frederic Gauss, the renowned author of the general theory of the 
magnetism of the earth, as Ilumboldt calls him, erected in the observatory of 
Gottingen a set of instruments, constructed upon an entii-ely new principle. In 
1834 this apparatus was transferred to a new observatory, expressly prepai-ed 
for the pui-pose, and placed in charge of William Weber. After this, from 
Gottingen, as from a centre, was diffused over Germany, Sweden, and Italy, 
a spirit of magnetic observation with the improved methods and the instruments 
of Gauss. In 1836 four annual terms, each of twenty-four hours, were agreed 
upon by all the observers, during which a continued series of observations were 
to be simultaneously made, although the hours of these terms did not exactly 
correspond with those which Ilumboldt had proposed, yet they were unanimously 
adopted. 

England had thus far taken no part in the general movement, although the 
celebrated English physicist. Sir David Brewster, made application to the 
government for the establishment of magnetic stations at different points of the 
British possessions, but it was here again, through the influence of Humboldt, 
that the desired result was obtained. He addressed a letter in April, 1836, to 
the Duke of Sussex, then president of the Royal Society in London, strongly 
recommending the establishment of permanent magnetic stations in Canada, at 
St. Helena, the Cape of Good Hope, on the Isle of France, Ceylon, and New 
Holland. In consequence of this letter, a committee of the Royal Society was 
appointed in order to examine and report upon the subject. It was proposed 
by this committee, in a letter to the government, not only to establish permanent 
magnetic observations, but also to equip ships for an expedition to the Antarctic 
ocean for the purpose of magnetic observations in that region. 

(to be continued in the next report.) 



ACCOUNT 



RECENT RESEARCHES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULJl. 



BY PROFESSOR GAUTIER 



Translated for the Smitlisoniau Institution from the Archives des Sciences Physiques el Natu- 

relies, Geneva, 1862. 



There is no part of the vast field of the astronomy of observation which is 
not at present the object of persevering explorations. I propose on this occa- 
sion to give a cursory view of those which relate to a widely extended and 
highly curious class of celestial objects, which was first made a subject of 
special study by the distinguished astrononiers Herschel and Messier, and 
since by Lord Ross, by Fathers De Vico and Secchi, and by MM. Lamont, 
Lassell, and Bond ; a subject which presents peculiar difiiculties, and respecting 
which there remains much to be cleared up. I allude to the nebulae, those 
small whitish patches, of feeble light, which the telescope reveals to us in great 
numbers in the heavens, and which powerful instruments enable us, for the 
most part, to recognize as assemblages of stars, situated at enormous distances 
from the earth. 

In this rapid review I shall follow, in general, the order of dates, and I shall 
commence by saying a few words of a catalogue of the positions in the heavena 
of fit\y-three nebulae, the result of observations made at the observatory of 
Paris by M. Langier, principally in 1848 and 1849, and by him presented to 
the Academy of Sciences of Paris at its sitting of December 12, 1853. This 
catalogue, published in the Compte Rendu of that sittiug, gives with the precision 
of seconds of a degree the right ascensions and mean declinations of the centre 
or most brilliant point of those nebulee to January 1, 1850, as well as the 
differences between these positions and those resulting from the catalogues of 
Herschel and Messier. It is a first attempt at precise determinations of the 
position of a certain number of nebulae, undertaken with a view of serving to 
decide, in the sequel, the question whether these bodies are really situated 
beyond the fixed stars which are visible to us. 

RESEARCHES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULA OF ORION. 

M. Liapounoff, director of the observatory of Kazan, in the beginning of 1856 
presented to the Academy of Sciences of Petersburg!!, through the medium of 
M. W. Struve, a memoir on the great nebula of Orion, being the result of 
observations made for four years with an equatorial telescope of the power 
of that of Dorpat and a meridian circle of Repsold.* He has applied himself 

* I know this memoir only from a very succinct mention of it at the entl of the number of 
the Monthly Notices of the Astronomical Society of Loudon for March 14, 18.')G, vol. xvi, 
p. 139. As I shall frequently have to cite this compilation, as well as that published at 
Altona by Dr. Peters under the title of Astronumische Nachrichten, 1 shall designate them 
respectively by then initial letters, M. N. and A. N. 



300 RECENT RESEARCHES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULA. 

to a very exact (Iptermiuation, by a process of triangulation, of the positions 
of all the stars which his instruments have enabled him to see in that nebula, 
and to a most careful delineation of all the parts of that remarkable celestial 
object, of which more than one chart had been already constructed, while 
assi'>-ninf^ particular names to its several regions. M. Struve, in comparing the 
results of Liapounoff with those of Sir John llerscbel, Lamont, and Bond, has 
expressed the opinion that this nebula must be subject to changes of form and 
relative brightness in its different parts. 

M. Otto Struve has continued, at the observatory of Poulkova, the labors of 
M. Liapounoff', and has reported the first results of his researches in a commu- 
nication, of the date of May 1, 1857, presented to the Astronomical Society by 
M. Airy, June 12 of the same year, and published in the seventeenth volume 
of the M. N., pp. 225-230. 

In this, M. Struve begins by describing the variableness of the lustre of 
different small stars situated in the nebula of Orion — a variableness which he 
has verified as well by a comparison of his observations with those of other 
astronomers as by different observations of his own.* "The existence of so 
many variable stars," he continues, "in so limited a space of the central part 
of the most curious nebula of the heavens must naturally lead to the supposition 
that these phenomena are intimately connected with the mysterious nature of 
this body. * * Admitting that the rapid changes of light observed in these 
small stars, whether in the region called Huygens or in that called Suhnehulosa, 
are connected with the nature of Irhc nebula, it might be presumed that changes 
would be equally observed in the appearance of the nebula and in the distribu- 
tion of the nebulous matter. But observations of this kind are subject to so 
many illusions, that we can scarce be sufficiently reserved in the conclusions 
drawn from them. I cannot think that the course commonly pursued by 
astronomers in this species of researches — the comparison, namely, with one 
another of graphic representations made at different epochs by different 
observers — ever conducts to results which can be regarded as indubitable. 
The optic power of the telescope, the transparency of the atmosphere, varying 
with different stations, the peculiarities of the observer's eye, the measure of 
skill and of experience in graphic representations of the kind — all this, joined 
with the influence of the imagination of the observer, forms obstacles which it 
will always be difficult to overcome in proceeding after this manner. It might 
perhaps be possible, by following this method for centuries, to discover pro- 
gressive changes, if any exist ; but those can never be thus verified which take 
place in short intervals of time. Now, the rapid variations of light in the stars 
may well cause us to expect similar, and perhaps periodical, variations in the 
appearances of the nebulous matter. It is therefore to rapid changes of this 
sort that we should particularly direct our attenti(to, and we shall be better able 
to verify their existence by comparative observations on the degree of light and 
the forms of some prominent portions of the nebula than by representing it in 
its entireness. It was in this way that I endeavored to proceed during last 
winter, and the impression produced upon me was a strong one that, at different 
points, considerable changes occurred within the short period of my observa- 
tions. I do not venture, however, to regard them as positive facts until they 
shall have been corroborated, especially by observers stationed in more favorable 
climates and provided with optical instrumentalities sufficient for the purpose." t 

* I have heretofore had occasion to speak of this work of M. O. Struve, in a Notice on the 
Stars of Variable Brightness, published in the numbers of the Bibliotheque UnieerselU 
{Archives, vol. xxxvi, pp. 5-8U) for September and October, 1857. M. Otto Struve has 
receutly succeeded his fatlier in the direction of the great Russian observatory of Poulkova. 

tThe memoir of M. 0. Struve on this subject has been published, I believe, in vol. ii of a 
collectioa entitled, Melanges MaUiematiques ct Astronomiques, 



RECENT EESEARCHES EELATIVE TO THE NEBUL.E. 301 

M. O. Struve proceeds to mention in detail four parts of tlic nebula of Orion 
in which he perceived most distinctly, in an interval of some months, changes 
of form or of the degree of light. The first is a bay, extending from the straits 
of Lc Gentil in the direction of the .trapezium of stars situated towards the 
middle of the nebula. 'J^his bay appeared to him at one time altogether 
obscure, like the straits ; at another, full of nebulosity, and little inferior in 
brightness to the surrounding portions of the region of iluygens. Dr. Lamont 
first delineated this bay, which has never been seen by Sir John llerschel. 
The second is a nehulous bridge, which crosses the great straits, with a point 
of concentrated light about midway. ]\[. Struve saw it in winter, sometimes as 
represented by llerschel, sometimes as by LiapounofF, with much greater con- 
centration of light, but always much more extended than in the representations 
of these astronomers, and closely approaching the southern limit of the great 
strait. Very faint traces of it arc indicated by M. Lamont, while Professor 
Bond did not see it at all. The third is a nebulosity surrounding star 75 of 
Herschel's catalogue, which appeared to M. Struve to be subject to great 
changes of brightness. Lastly, the fourth part is a sort of narrow canal, uniting 
in a right line the obscure space situated around the stars 76, 80, and 84, of 
Herschel's catalogue, with the north side of the great strait, near the exterior 
extremity of the bridge before mentioned. The canal, which has not been 
represented by any other observer, was distinctly seen by M. Struve March 24, 
1857, Avhile on other occasions he has not perceived the least trace of it. 

This astronomer, in closing his communication, adds, that the general im- 
pression resulting from his observations is to the effect that the central part of 
the nebula of Orion is in a state of continual change of brightness as regards 
many of its portions. In those cases where the images were most distinct, 
their appearance did not seem entirely uniform from night to night. Those 
changes in the degree of light cannot, however, be perceived in the greater 
number of cases without instruments of considerable optical power ; and he does 
not think that achromatic telescopes of less than ten inches opening can serve 
to verify them, except under atmospheric conditions extraordinarily favorable. 

The twenty-second volume of the M. N. (pp. 203-207) contains the analysis 
of another memoir relating to the same nebula. It was communicated to the 
Astronomical Society, May 10, 1861, by Professor George Bond, who has suc- 
ceeded his father in the direction of the observatory of Harvard College, at 
Cambridge, near Boston. The paper bears for its title. On the spiral stritcture 
of the great iiehula of Orion. 

Professor Bond the father, in a memoir published in 1848, had already 
remarked that the light of this nebula seemed to present a radiated appearance 
on its southern side, starting from the neighborhood of the trapezium of stars 
situated towards its middle. Professor G. Bond has undertaken, since 1857, 
to form a catalogue of the stars comprised in a square of forty minutes to the 
side, having of Orion lor its centre. He selected one hundred and twenty-one 
bright stars as guiding points to which to refer the smaller stars, of too feeble 
light, for the most part, to remain visible under a strong illumination of the 
micrometric threads. In a first sheet he has arranged two hundred and sixty- 
two stars, and then subdivided the same surface into four charts, finally reunited 
into a single one. The form and arrangement of the elongated luminous tufts, 
alternating with the more obscure spaces stretching from the neighborhood of 
the trapezium, have been determined by two independent procedures, the nebula 
being first delineated as a bright object on a dark ground, and then as a dark 
object on a white ground. 

I cannot enter here into the descriptive details given in the analysis of Prof. 
Bond's memoir, and I shall confine myself to a report of its conclusion. The 
general aspect of the greater part of the nebulae of Orion is an assemblage of 
tufts or curvilinear pencils of luminous matter, emanating from bright masses 



302 RECENT KESEARCIIES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULA. 

near tlic trapezium, extending towards the pouth, on each side of an axis pass- 
ing by the apex of the region called Iluygens, of which the angle of position 
is in the neighborhood of 180°. Some twenty of these circumvolutions have 
been distinctly traced, whilst others, producing the same impression, arc too 
ftiiut or too coraplicatecf to be described with precision. We may class, then, 
according to Prof. Bond, the ncbulai of Orion among the spiral nehulce, such as 
they were, for the first time, described by Lord Ross, with the aid of his great 
reflecting telescope. The nebulse No. 51, of the catalogue of Messier, was the 
first in which he discovered this spiral conformation, which had escaped both 
the astronomers llerschel. 

Prof. Bond has observed that, in a great number of cases, the masses of neb- 
ulous matter are associated with stars, frequently under the form of small tufts 
extending from their southern side. He cites two remarkable instances where 
there is a deficit of luminous matter near stars of considerable brilliancy ; the 
first, in reference to the trapezium itself, whose obscure centre has been remarked 
by sundry observers; the other, to the star Iota of Orion. These peculiarities 
appear to Prof. Bond to be favorable to the supposition of a physical associa- 
tion of the stars with the nebuLie. The existence of an an-angement in a spiral 
form of the parts which compose it accords with the idea of a stellar constitu- 
tion ; for among the objects which present this peculiarity of form are found 
not only nebulie resolvable into stars, but masses of stars properly so called, 
such, for instance, as the grand mass of stars of the constellation Hercules, 
where the exterior stars have evidently a curvilinear arrangement. 

OTHER FACTS RELATING TO THE NEBULiE. 

M. Norman Pogson, whilst at the observatory of Dr. Lee, at Hartwell, in 
1860, witnessed a change in the nebulae, or mass of stai's, No. 80 of the cata- 
logue of Messier, situated in the constellation of the Scorpion, and very close 
to a pair of A'ariable stars R and S of the Scorpion, which have been observed 
by M. Chacornac since 1853. The 9th of May this nebulae had its usual aspect, 
without any stellar appearance, and the 28th of the same month Mr. Pogson 
saAV therein a star of the 7th or 8th magnitude, which has been also observed 
since the 21st of May by MM. Luther and Auwers at Koningsberg, and which 
the latter have estimated to be of something more than the 7th magnitude. 
The 10th of June following, with a magnifying power of 66, the stellar ap- 
pearance had nearly passed away, but the nebulae had a greater brilliancy than 
usual, with a clearly marked central condensation. M. Pogson does not think 
that this variation can be attributed to a change in the nebulae itself, but he re- 
gards as singular that a new variable star, the third comprised in the same field 
of vision, should be found exactly situated betv/een the earth and that nebulae. 
This observation has been published in the twenty-first volume of the M. N., 
p. 32. 

M. Chacornac has observed quite recently, with M. Foucault's great reflect- 
ing telescope of plated glass, so adapted as to procure a great degree of enlarge- 
ment, the ainiular nebulae of the Lyre, and he has ascertained that it is in reality 
resolvable into a mass of very small stars, closely crowded together, the bright- 
est of them occupying the extremities of the small diameter. This nebulae, in 
an examination of several nights, presented to him the appearance of a hollow 
cylinder, seen in a direction nearly parallel to its axis ; and its centre, as Lord 
Ross describes it, is veiled by a curtain of nebulous matter, which converts it- 
self into a somewhat thin stratum of little stars. M. Chacornac adds, in a com- 
munication to Dr. Peters on this subject, dated Paris, 9th June, 1862, and pub- 
lished in No. 1368 of the A. N., that when the view is screened from all inter- 
fering light, the scintillation of this multitude of luminous points, occupying a 
large portion of the surface of the retina, produces a sort of giddiness which 
is quite cuiioua. 



I 



RECENT EESEAKCHES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULiE. 30i5 

I pass now to the labors of M. d'Arrest, relative to the nebulce. This 
astrouomer had begun to occupy himself with this subject while he was still 
attached to the obsei-vatory of Leipsic, and, since 1857, has published in the 
collection of the memoirs of the Royal Society of Saxe the result of his first 
observations of 230 nebuloe, made with a double annular micrometer, of Frauen- 
hofer's construction, applied to a telescope of 52 lines opening and 6 feet focal 
length. Prof. d'Arrest* is at present director of the observatory of Copen- 
hagen, and he has continued, since the month of September, 1861, his observa- 
tions of the uebulse, with a large achromatic telescope, of 11 inches opening and 
16 feet focal length, the optic power of which he estimates to be intermediate 
between that of Herschel's 20 feet reflecting telescope, and that of the telescope 
of the same kind with which Lassell likewise has observed the nebula) from 
1852 to 1854. The telescope of Copenhagen has enabled M. d'Arrest not 
only to recognize all the nebulte of Herschel, but to discover more than a hun- 
dred new ones among 776 observed in eight months. He has been enabled also, 
under favorable circumstances and with some diflficulty, to see certain nebulsB 
indicated by Lassell. 

M. d'Arrest, making his observations alone, soon perceived that he could 
scarcely combine the observation of celestial objects of very feeble light with 
the microscopic reading of the circles of his instrument. It follows that his 
new catalogue will not assign, with all the precision attainable, the absolute 
position of each object on the celestial sphere. This position is only given to 
the minute of a degree in right ascension and in declination ; but as the nebulae 
are very carefully compared with the neighboring small stars by the help of 
annular «nd thread micrometers, we shall thus have competent means for ascer- 
taining with precision their proper movements in respect to those stars, which 
constitutes one of the principal aims of the researches of M. d'Arrest. This 
astronomer has published, in No. lo66 of the A. N., an interesting notice, dated 
20th May, 1862, of his later labors; and from this I shall extract some de- 
tails, tending to complete those which precede. 

VARIABILITY OF THE BRIGHTNESS OF THE NEBULAE. 

M. d'Arrest considers as well established one of the results of the great 
labor of Argelander, in which has originated his new catalogue of stars, namely, 
that, of 50,000 stars already well recognized, there exists but a small number 
of which the brightness is periodically variable ; and he believes the same 
may be aifirnied, though with less certainty, to be very nearly the case Avith 
the nebulae. 

Sir W. llerschel had subdivided the nebulfe into three classes, with reference 
to their relative degree of brightness. M. d'Arrest has found a great many 
instances in which the ncbulaj, as at first classed by Herschel, must now be as- 
signed by one or even two units a new place in the classification. Herschel 
himself had, in the course of some years, changed several of his appreciations. 
But in view of the great diversity of atmospheric influences in humid climates, 
bearing upon observations of this kind, M. d'Arrest thinks, like M. Otto Struve, 
ihat it is impossible to be too circumspect in regard to the conclusions to be de- 
duced from variabilities of this nature. He instances, however, a small num- 
ber of cases in which some degree of variability has been positively ascer- 
tained. 

The first of these cases is that resulting from the observations of M. 0. Struve 
on the nebula of Orion before spoken of. The observations of this nebula 
recently made, at difi"erent times and in favorable nights, by M. d'Arrest, with 
his large telescope, have confirmed those of M. Struve, particularly as regards 

* See M. N., vol. xvii, p. 48. 



304 EECENT RESEAECHES RELATIVE TO THE NEBULiE. 

the bridge over the great strait, which, last winter, was Bometimes distinctly 
visible at Copenhagen, presenting the appearance assigned it by M. Lassell. 

The second case of well-established variability is the almost total disappear- 
ance of a small and faint nebula? discovered by M. Hind, October 11, 18-32, in 
the constellation Taurus, recognized by other astronomers, and in the begin- 
ning of 1S<36 still readily perceptible with a telescope of six feet focal length. 
Two years later it was no longer to be seen, except with great difficulty, in the 
heliometer of the observatory of KiJnigsberg. It was invisible October 3, 1861, 
with the gi-eat telescope of Copenhagen. M. Chacornac, with the new telescope 
of M. Foucault, and M. Lassell, at Malta, with his reflecting telescope of four 
feet diameter, sought for it in vain in 1862, though it was still to be seen with 
the great achromatic telescope of Poulkova. 

A curious circumstance, connected with the great diminution of the bright- 
ness of this nebula, is that this diminution has coincided with that of a small 
star ^^'hich presented itself almost in contact with the nebula. M. Argelander 
estimated the magnitude of this star, in 1852, at 9.4. It was of not more than 
the tenth magnitude in 1858, of the eleventh in 1861, and of the thirteenth or 
fourteenth in 1862. 

Sir John Herschel believed that he had recently detected another instance 
of the disa])pearance of a nebula from not having found inscribed in the first 
catalogue of M. d'Arrest a very faint nebula, noticed by Sir W. Il-erschel, near 
two others in the constellation of Berenice's hair. But M. Chacornac has ascer- 
tained, with the new telescope of M. Foucault, that this feeble nebula is still 
plainly visible, and M. d'An-est has also observed it with his great telescope. 
The latter astronomer further cites a small number of cases where there may 
have been variability of brightness, or even disappearance of nebulai ; but these 
instances are not as well established as that of the nebula of M. Hind. 

DOUBLE NEBULAE. 

Sir John Herschel has remarked in his important memoir on the nebulae, 
published in the PMlosopJiical Transactiovs for 1833, p. 502, that the number 
of nebulai physically connected with one another is probably more considerable, 
relatively to the total number of the nebulae, than is that of double stars among 
the fixed stars.* Admitting a mutual distance of five minutes of a degree to 
be the greatest for the double nebulre, M. d'Arrest even now enumerates about 
fifty comprehended within this limit, and is of opinion that there may be two 
or three hundred of them among the whole number of some 3,00'0 nebulae dis- 
cernible in our heavens, t So considerable a proportion of double nebulaj justi- 
fies the presumption that there is a real connexion in these groups, and their 
aspect confirms this idea, particularly in the case where unusual forms present 
themselves at once in two equal exemplifications. Sir W. Herschel seems not 
to have had an idea of this physical connexion betAveen the nebulre, but Sir 
John distinctly speaks of it on more than one occasion. It can scarcely be 
doubted that at some future period astronomers will be called on to calculate the 
orbits of the double nebulae. 

M. d'Arrest mentions some particular cases of this sort of nebula?, of which 
one is triple. There is as yet but one recognized, where, on comparing the 
distances and respective positions of the two nebulae of the same group observed 
m 1785, 1827, and 1862, considerable changes have been noticed, which seem 
to indicate a movement of revolution of the one around the other. This double 



A short analysis of this adinirable paper of Sir J. Herschel, accompanied with a plate, is 
given in tho issues of the Dibitothcqiic Univcrsdk for June and July, 1834. 

t M. d'Aircst has quite recently published, in No. 13G9 of the A. N., a catalogue, for the 
commencement of 18tjl, of tho positions and aspect of fifty double uebulse which he has 
already recognized, and of which a dozen are now ones. 



RECENT RESEARCHES RELATIVE TO THE NEIBUL^. 305 

and particularly interesting nebula is situated at 109^ 12' of right ascension, 
and 29^ 45' of north declination. M. Lasscl has represented it in Fig. 9 of 
Plate XI, accoinpaayiag his m';njir, pibli-ihed in vol. xxiii of the quarto 
collection of the Astronomical Society of Loudon. The two components of tho 
nebula are very distinct, though their mutual distance is at present but 28 
seconds; but they are difficult to be seen when the threads of the micrometer 
are illuminated. A very small star is found between the two, exactly in tho 
same place where M. Lassell. observed it ten years ago. M. d'Arrest Avill tako 
occasion, when his labors on this subject arc completed, to cite some other 
analogous cases of change of relative position in double uebulce. His pro- 
sumption, in the mean time, from what he has been able thus far to discern, is, 
that there will not be found in any of these groups of nebulai as short periods 
of revolution as those which have been verified in the case of some of the 
double stars. 

Finally, M. d'Arrest reports a small number of cases where, by comparing a 
nebula with some small star near it, and repeating this comparison at the end 
of a certain time, he has been able to verify slight differences of distance or of 
position, which might indicate a proper movement in one or the other of ^hoso 
bodies. 

I here terminate this short review, in which I have been able to give but a 
rapid glance at the present state of observation iu respect to one of the most 
difficult and least advanced parts of astronomical science.* 

Post scriptujn. — M. d'Arrest has just announced, in No. 1378 of the A. N., 
that he has recognized in the constellation Taurus the existence of a second 
nebula of varisible brightness. 

*I ought here to correct an error, pointed out to me by Dr. Hirsch, ■which I committed in 
my notice on the observatory of Neufchatel, inserted iu the number of the Archives for last 
July, volume xiv, p. 224. It is not M. Hirsch, but Professor Kopp, of Neufchatel, who 
forms part of the meteorological commission instituted by the Helvetic Society of Natural 
Science. 



20 S 



I 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 



BY SR. MIGUEL MERINO. 



Anuario del Real Obserratorio de Madrid; cuarto ano; 1863. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ET 0. A. ALEXANDER. 



Ipf an article inserted in oiar Annual for 1862, under the same title with the 
present, we proposed, as our nearly exclusive object, to present, in an elementary 
manner, the result of the investigations heretofore made to determine the form 
and volume of the earth, apart from historical notices, numerical details, and, 
in a word, whatever might embarrass the course of the reasoning, or distract 
the attention of our readers. Thus conceived and compiled, that first article 
was for the most part dry, as regards results, and incomplete under various as- 
pects. Dry, inasmuch as the mind takes less pleasure in the final solution of 
a problem than in the survey of the means and computations employed to over- 
come, one after another, the difficulties which beset it; and incomplete, because 
without numbers there is in the physical sciences no precise solution, such as 
shall leave the mind tranquil and satisfied. To supply our intentional omission 
is the design of the present pages, in which, assuming the substance of our for- 
mer article to be known, we shall consider, successively, and under the new 
point of view just indicated, the three following points : 

First. In wiiat manner the human understanding, acted upon by the immediate 
testimony of the senses, acquired, after a long uncertainty, a clear idea of the 
roundness and rotation of the earth. 

Second. By what means that first idea, fovmded on a somewhat superficial ex- 
amination, became confirmed, and, at the same time, modified in some of the de- 
tails by the actual and direct measurement of our globe. 

Third. The present state of the question, briefly summed up in certain nu- 
merical tables. 



In considering the progress of astronomy we must distinguish two epochs of 
quite diff"cr(!nt character — one very remote, and only known to us by vague and 
confused tradition, which has often undergone a strained interpretation ; the 
other nearer to our own times, whose history has been consigned to unequivocal 
and imperishable monuments. In the opinion of certain authors possessed of 
erudition and talent, and doubtless sincere in their belief, but led astray possibly 
by the excess of their imagination, the ancient people of central Asia, the 
Chinese, Indians, Assyrians, and Chaldeans, as wel^ as the Egyptians, enjoyed 
a civilization superior to the modern, cultivated the sciences, and possessed, 
particularly, a knowledge of celestial phenomena, to Avhich our present astrono- 
mers cannot yet pretend. In the possible case that this were so, although the 
mind instinctively revolts from believing it; that astronomy flourished at a period 
of which history preserves no distinct traces, and that all which we know to- 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 307 

day resppcting the form of the earth and its rchitions with the other bodies of our 
system was known many ages before that in whieh we live ; granting, moreover, 
that in view of the constant and great vicissitudes to which the world is sub- 
ject, where the events of to-day so readily and radically eftace the most mo- 
mentous memories of 3-esterday, we are left without any positive grounds for 
roundly denying the above assertions, yet what imports it to us whether the 
primitive people of Asia were more enlightened than those of modern Europe, 
if there remain only incomplete traces of their knowledge — if their science has 
disappeared or been transmitted only when the modern had secured new foun- 
dations, assuredly not less solid than the ancient 1 If we concede at once that 
those people had ascertained the roundness of the earth, whether from the ex- 
perience acquired in their emigrations and their warlike and commercial expe- 
ditions, or else from a species of intuition; that from the demonstrated fact they 
ascended to the producing cause, and that, not content with a knowledge of the 
form, they had sought and succeeded in determining the dimensions of the globe, 
what advantage have the moderns derived from all this? In what respect have 
these problematical antecedents served to enlighten us with reference to the 
questions with which we are engaged? This is to us the point of interest, and 
it is this which we should first of all endeavor to make plain. 

In his heroic poems Homer brings together all the cosmographic and geo- 
graphic ideas of his age and of the people to whom he belonged — a people fitted, 
beyond all then known, for the cultivation of the sciences, distinguished by 
their lively and penetrating imagination, and inhabiting a country in all respects 
the most favorably situated for observation. And yet Homer, minute and exact 
as he is in the description of the scene on which his heroes moved, supposes the 
earth to be a plane, and bounded in all directions by the waters of the ocean ; 
places in the middle of it Greece, and particularly the Thessalian Olympus; estab- 
lishes, on the mysterious limits of the horizon, pillows which serve as a support 
for the skies; pictures Tartarus, the abode of the enemies of the gods, at a great 
depth beneath the surface; and beyond the dim confines of earth imagines chaos, 
or immensity, a confused mixture of life and vacuity, an abyss where exist, 
Avithout ordex-, all the elements of Tartarus, earth, and heaven. Here we have 
the point of departure for our existing knowledge respecting the form of the 
earth and the constitution of the celestial vault ; and is there here anything 
which reveals the profound research, whether certain or problematical, of the 
pristine races ? Have Ave here, indeed, anything more than the primitive ideas, 
Avhich the spectacle of nature wakens in the breast of every one moderately en- 
dowed with an inquiring spirit, dressed in the colors of a gloAving imagination, 
but betraying the incapacity to discover the truth through the mists which en- 
velope it? 

The voyages of the Phenicians, though conducted with less timidity than 
those of the cotemporary Greeks, yet with a prudence and caution indicative 
of no transmitted knowledge, open the door to wider investigation, to juster 
ideas of the figure of the earth, and lead, by a more certain, at least more ex- 
peditious path, to the discovery of the truth. Till this epoch history presents 
to us each people shut up within the narrow limits which nature had marked 
for it, here separated from .the rest by mountain chains, there by tempestuous 
seas. Tiie dwellers of Tyre and Sidon are the first to venture habitually on 
distant voyages in search of new lands, of foreign productions, of the objects of' 
luxury and affluence, Avhich were wanting at home. They visit, one by one, 
all the islands of the Mediterranean, coast along the north of Africa, founding 
colonies Avherever suitable ; and, without recoiling before the dreaded straits of 
Gades, launch into the ocean and establish the principal seats of their com- 
merce on the smiling shores of Betica. And while advancing on the west to 
points never before reached, this commercial people unite the fleets of their 
King Hiram with those of Solomon to explore the coasts of the Red and of the 



308 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

Erytlircan or ludian seas ; while still later, as some historians maintain, their 
boidiie<s readies such a jtoiut that they navigate the shores of Africa by the 
east, double the Cape of Good, Hope, afterwards long forgotten, and regain their 
country at the end of three years by the before-mentioned straits of Gades, or 
Gibraltar.* 

The Carthaginians, possessing the same enterprising and mercantile genius 
with their ancestors of Phenicia, and bcnelitiug by the experience of the latter, 
projected still more important, if not more daring, expeditions. Hanno, with a 
numerous lleet, traces the western coast of Africa and attains the mouth of the 
river Senegal, while Ilimilco, sailing in the opposite direction, stops not short 
of England, where he loads his vessels with the coveted metal stored in that 
region. 

Similar expeditions, made with ever-increasing frequency and boldness, such 
as the voyage of Coloeus of Samos, which extended to the entrance of the At- 
lantic, and so strongly excited the curiosity of the Greeks, and kthe much later 
one of ]*ytheast of Marseilles, who advanced as far as the Feroe islands, and 
even entered the Baltic, although they might be undertaken solely with the 
vicAvs of adventure or cupidity, could not but be conducive to the progress of 
astronomy and its kindred sciences, as well in regard to the preliminaries they 
required, as the observations and notices collected in these protracted wander- 
ings. However closely attracted to the land by necessity or interest, can we 
suppose that these early navigators did not often lift their eyes to contemplate 
the celestial vault, induced as well by the requirements of safety as by the 
curiosity inherent in man of seeing and learning something new ? In this 
way the old impressions that the earth was plane and undefined, that the stars, 
quenched in the sea, were again kindled at their rising, and others of the same 
kind, would necessarily give way, not alone in the conceptions of the thoughtful, 
but in the opinion of the vulgar, and be replaced by ideas more creditable to 
human sagacity, and conformable to the truth and simplicity of nature. To this 
result v.'ould conduce, indirectly but still effectually, the travels undertaken by 
land, whether towards the north in search of amber, furs and materials of con- 
struction, towards the east for ivory and spices, or towards the west for metals. 
The wars among nations would also promote this result, as necessarily tending 
to a mixture of races, and a comp irison of conflicting ideas. Among influences 
of this kind we may especially distinguish the expedition of Alexander, at 
once enlarging beyond example the limits of the known world, and bringing 
into propitious coincidence a vast material and a most favorable conjuncture of 
circumstances for new and fruitful meditation ; the conquests of the Romans, 
extend into one almost all the nations of the known world, and attracting 
to the common centre whatever that Avovld contained which could minister to 
an nnboundfi^d love of ostentation and luxury ; the Gothic irruption, covering 
the world with ruins from which the germs of knowledge might spring with a 
new and more vigorous life; and the subsequent appearance of the Saracens, 

*Tliis voyage of circunmaviiratiou, of which Herodotus speaks as having been undertaken 
about the bcgimiing of the sixth century before our era, and at the instance and direction of 
Nccos, King of Egypt, has always met with warm asserters and oppiigners. To us the ar- 
guments of the latter seem to have the most weight, though amongst the ibrmer appears the 
^H'arned and judicious Cesar Cantu. In so disputable a matter, doubtless, the reader need 
not resign himsiOf blindly to the opinion of any one; but, for our present purpose, it is suf- 
ficient to know, that if sucli a voyage was really performed, it led to no results worthy, from 
their ciuiosity or importance, to be transmitted to modern times. As regards other ancient 
voyages around Africa, there are still stronger reasons for discrediting them than that at- 
tributed to the Pheniciaus. 

tTlie reality of the voyage of Pytheas, to the west and north of Europe, is generally ad- 
mitted, but the descriptions given by him of the lands and seas ho visited are regarded as 
exaggerated, as thoy are certainly in many points obscure, even when wo concede their 
foundation in fact. 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 309 

endoAved with a .special culture and lieirs of the ancient civilization of the East, 
upon tlie theatre where modern civilization was undergoing its definite develop- 
ment. This scries of momentous events, we repeat, in proportion as it conveyed 
to each people the traditions and impressions of the rest, as it brought into 
contact, beneath another climate and sky, under natural conditions essentially 
different from those in which they had before lived, the natives of regions most 
widely remote from one another, could not but prompt human reason to discard 
the trivial ideas which it had cherished and insensibly adopt others more in 
harmony with the truth of nature. And this, be it observed, without the inter- 
vention of ancient science, lost or at least forgotten amidst the convulsions 
which had swept away its cultivators, and solely by an immediate effect of the 
events which, at the epoch of regeneration referretl to, constantly modified the 
state of societies. 

The incursions of the northern hordes having at last ceased, the present 
nationalities began to take shape ; and if the systematic cultivation of the sci- 
ences was not yet to be expected, at least a delight in their study began to 
dawn. Nor did eventual circumstances, and such as might have appeared ex- 
traneous, cease to stimulate the taste for voyages and discoveries. As the 
occupation of the south and west of Europe by their warlike predecessors 
opposed an insuperable barrier to the progress, in that direction, of the Scandi- 
navians or Normans who brought up the rear of tbe Asiatic migration, these 
established themselves permanently on the shores of the Baltic, and from thence, 
impelled by their roving and hardy genius, explored the northern islands and 
continents, the archipelagoes of Shetland and Feroe, Iceland, and, in the tenth 
and two succeeding centuries, the inhospitable coasts of Greenland, and those, 
somewhat more fertile, of Vineland, the present Labrador. * Meanwhile there 
arises in Asia a formidable empire, whose limits expand witli astonishing rapidity 
from the seas of India to the frontiers of Europe, giving rise to the dread of a 
new invasion of destructive races ; yet its service as a counterpoise to the Sara- 
cenic power, not less formidable on another side, is appreciated, and pontiffs 
and kings- send embassies, sometimes to propitiate the redoubtable successors 
of Genghis-Khan, sometfmes to solicit help from Tartar and Mogul princes, at 
times simply in sign of admiration and respect. At their return from these 
distant scenes, observers like Ascelin, Carpini, Rubruquis, Polo, Sotomayor, 
and Clavijo, whether sent as ambassadors or led thither by inclination, com- 
municate their impressions and adventures without reserve, and awaken in all 

* The following is a recapitulation of the later discoveries referred to in the text. They 
may be found more particularly described in the eighteenth book of Malte Brun's Geography, 
and in the notes to the tburteenth book of Cesar Cautu's Universal History. 

About the middle of the ninth century Iceland was discovered, and before the end of the 
century a numerous colonj' of northmeu was established in that island. In 986, among 
olher colonists, one called Eric the Red, having been banished from Iceland, takes reiuge in 
Greenland. Biorn, son of Eriulph, one of the companions of Eric, desirous of joining his 
father, freighted a ship and directed Iris course towards Greenland, but wandering for some time 
in those seas, got a sight of new coasts other than that which he was seeking. In the same 
ship with Biorn, Leif Ericson, son of Eric the Red, set sail iVom Greenland in the year 1000, 
and visited in succession a sterile, rocky and snow-CDvered coast, (Helluland;) another 
level, hoar with frost and well wooded, (Markland;) and a third, which abounded in vines, 
(Vineland.) Thorwald and Thorstein, brothers of Leif, prosecuted, with no successful result, 
the exploration of these lands, as did others of the same race. And though commerce and 
communication between Iceland, Greenland and the parts last mentioned, continued for a 
considerable length of time, they underwent many alternations, and proved of no real im- 
portance to geography. Judging from the descriptions given, as well of the lands as of the 
celestial phenomena which were observed, Markland seems to correspond to Nova Scotia, 
and Vineland to the region about Cape Cod, as far eouth as latitude 4i'\ If the documents 
published by the Society of Northern Antiquaries may be relied on — and it is not our province 
to controvert them — Columbus made no true discovery ; but how the Icelandic adventurers 
came to stop midway, and allowed the intrepid Genoese to snatch from them the domain 
of a world, is a phenomenon difficult to explain, and, in our opinion, more discreditable than 
otherwise to those in whose honor it is cited. 



310 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

minds more competent c ncoptions of the form and size of the earth, and of the 
diversity of climates, than could otherwise have been attained. Thus, by means 
the most indirect, the limits of the world were extended, many obscure spaces 
of the earth brought to light, and the minds of men prepared for greater and 
more decisive discoveries. 

We have now arrived at the first half of the fifteenth century. Portugal is 
a prosperous kingdom, without near enemies to combat, and possessed of a 
vitality which refuses to confine itself within the territorial frontier ; it claims 
a wider field, and enterprises more worthy of the national spirit. With this 
spirit the geographical position of Portugal at one of the extremities of the an- 
cient world, in front of that world which now awaits discovery, concurs to make 
it tha point of departure for the great maritime expeditions of the age. Its 
princes, too, second opportunely the impulse, as well by their patronage of 
science and its cultivators as by a steady faith and interest in all enterprises 
calculated to enhance the name and importance of their country. Under the 
protection of Prince lienry, the Portuguese navigators explore and take pos- 
session of the archii)elagoes of Azores, Madeira, and Cape Verde, and double 
Cape Bojador, so long the terminus of the African coast, thus penetrating into 
the vast Gulf of Guinea. Still later, in 1486, Bartholomew Diaz reaches the 
southernmost extremity of Africa, to which he gives the name of the Cape of 
Stonris, a name soon changed by King John II mlo the more propitious one 
of Good Hope; and, finally, Vasco de Gama, passing, in 1497, beyond this for- 
midable promontory, and turning his prow in an opposite direction to that of 
the supposed Phenician navigators of a remote age, points out to his adventu- 
rous cotemporaries the marit.me route to India and China, immense regions 
till then only knowi^ through vague and inexact tradition. 

It seemed impossible that the ardor of the Portuguese for distant and haz- 
ardous exploration could be surpassed by any other country, and that silll more 
important successes were in reserve for a different people. And yet this seeming 
impossibility "was realized in a manner the most simple and natural, and with 
means the most limited imaginable. The genius and perseverance of an obscure 
and ill-understood mariner having met, though after long struggles, with sup^- 
port and countenance in the faith and enthusiasm of a queen, Columbus was 
enabled to launch his three frail caravels, manned by a handful of Spaniards, 
upon the broad Atlantic; there, leaving the Portuguese to contend with the 
dangers of the African coasts, and disregarding the circuitous and unprofitable 
track pursued by the Scandinavian adventurers, he directed the course of his 
vessels first south, and then constantly west, until he reached the archipelago 
of the Antilles, the gate of a new world resplendent with beauty, which seemed 
at that moment to ascend from the bosom of the seas. 

Among the multitude of daring navigators who followed Columbus in the 
work of western exploration we may distinguish Magallaues, a Portuguese in 
the service of Spain, for the importance of the results attending his enterprise. 
After the discoveries of Columbus and De Gama, it still remained to be ascer- 
tained what separated, and at how wide an interval, the two continents to which 
they had led the way. There existed, as Balboa had descried, in 1513, from 
the Isthmus of Darien, a vast sea, but of its extent no conception had been 
formed, and yet Magallaues, not more enlightened on this point than previous 
explorers, proposed to traverse it. He sailed from Spain in September, 1519, 
passed the next year through the difficult straits which bear his name, and per- 
ished in the Philippine islands, after having overcome the chief difiiculty of his 
Undertaking. His second in command, Elcano, a Biscayan by birth, and not 
less resolute than the chief he had lost, still continued his course westwardly, 
and finally regained his country in a direction opposite to that by which he had 
departed. The sphericity of the earth, already recognized by reflecting minds, 
and gradually revealed by the discoveries which have been here briefly re- 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 311 

traced, was now for the first time practically shown ; to the rude marinQr, as to 
the astronomer, the limitation of our globe in all directions, and its isolation in 
space, were from this date evident ; and to the abstract but little diffused 
methods of geometry was now added a new means for forming an idea of the 
dimensions of the eartli. Elcano, in effect, though encountered by many unex- 
pected obstacles, had performed, in little more than three years and three 
mouths, a complete voyage of circumnavigation. 

From the memorable epoch referred to, geographical discoveries have suc- 
ceeded one another with greater rapidity than ever, the earth has been explored 
in all directions, the width of the seas calculated, and the surface of the conti- 
nents measured ; but all these labors, however vast their importance, liave been 
those of detail, and have added no new idea to the results of the bold naviga- 
tion performed in the fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth centuries', as re- 
spects the general form and approximate dimensions of the planet we inhabit. 
To these last dates must be referred, if not the first clear conception, the definitive 
verification of the nearly. spherical figure of the earth. 

Looking back, however, it must be conceded that neither the voyages of 
Columbus nor Magallanes were absolutely necessary for the demonstration of 
the spherical figure of the earth, since this fact might have been deduced with 
sufficient clearness from geographical principles already verified ; from the de- 
lusion indulged by every nation that its own territory was central, as regarded 
the rest of the earth ; from the general and changeable aspect of the heavens 
upon every change of country ; from the apparent sphericity of the sun, and 
especially that of the moon, still more conspicuous through the succession of its 
phases, and from the circular outline of the earth's shadow during the eclipses 
of the lunar planet. But all these indications of the limitation and roundness 
of the earth, however conclusive for reflecting and studious minds, would have 
carried no conviction to the generality of mankind, without the incontestable 
support of those other proofs which might be called material or tangible. With 
what obstacles did Columbus meet betbre finding himself intrusted with three 
frail vessels — how much incredulity in all countries, even to the extent of being 
charged with madness — and for what 1 Columbus said : " The Portuguese 
seek the gold and spices of India by steering towards the east ; and 1, who 
cherish the persuasion that the earth is round, propose to trace a more expe- 
ditious route by reaching the same point in au opposite direction." Had there 
bcen^many who at that time held the doctrine of the earth's sphericity, no one 
would have treated so logical and obvious a thought as extravagant ; nor would 
Columbus -have been indebted to the noble instinct of a woman for the success- 
ful issue of his enterprise if modern society had inherited from the ancient that 
vast store of science attributed to the latter, instead of having to rear from the 
very foundation the edifice of its own knowledge. 

What has been just said in regard to the form of our globe may, with even 
more propriety, be asserted of its movement of rotation. We shall admit, 
without discussion, that among the Indians, the Chinese, the Chaldeans, there 
might possibly be a few who recognized and maintained the reality of this 
movement ; that the same might be true of ancient Egypt, and that certain 
Greek philosophers, especially of the school of Pythagoras, also taught at a 
later period the same truth. To explain the alternation of day and night two 
hypotheses were feasible, and there was nothing to forbid men of special talent 
adopting the more rational one; but was the merit of Copernicus, therefore, less 
in having reproduced the right idea about the middle of the sixteenth century ? 
How many years must still elapse, how many angry and deplorable discussions 
ensue before the ideas of Copernicus became firmly established even among 
men of science and systematic cultivation. On the other hand, did the Greek 
philosophers, who admitted the rotation of the earth, build their doctrine on the 
difficulty of reconciling in any other manner the phenomena of the heavens, or 



312 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

was it maintained rather in the spirit of the school, by which same spirit they 
might have been induced to support the direct contrary?* It is certain that 
llipparchus, Ptolemy, Euclid, and Archimedes, eminent minds and founders 
of true astronomy, of geometry, and of mechanics, more versed certainly in 
observation and calculation than in the subtleties of metaphysics, denied the 
movement of the earth, and for many ages strengthened the opposite belief 
with their imposing authority. Hence this belief was the prevailing one when 
Copernicus appeared in the world to overthrow it, at the epoch of great geo- 
graphical discoveries, as if the Creator had designed that after the form and 
distinct features of our jilanet were unveiled, its relations of analogy with the 
rest of the universe should also be disclosed. 

Copernicus was not only a consummate methcmatician, a skilful observer, 
capable of deducing great results wiih rude and inciEcient instruments, but he 
was likewise, as we are assured by his biographer, Czynski, a man of profound 
piety, full of faith in the wisdom of the Creator, and penetrated with the sim- 
plicity of his works. With these elements of character the astronomer of 
Thorn studied the movements of the celestial bodies, perceived their inextrica 
ble complication upon the principles then received, the infinity of occult agen- 
cies and of forces distinct in direction and intensity, which must concur in the 
operation to carry all the heavenly bodies around the earth without varying 
their relative distances, or altering in the minutest particular the harmony of 
the creation, and instead of confining himself to saying, with the sage King of 
Castile, "it is strange that this should be so," resolutely pronounces, "this 
cannot be so." 

* To show that we exaggerate nothing in thus expressing ourselves, we shall here retrace, 
with all possible brevity, the diifercnt opiuions of the Greek philosophers on the form of the 
earth ainl its situation in space, making use for that purpose of the work by G. Lewis, enti- 
tled. An Historical Survey of the Astronomy of the Ancients. 

Thales of Miletus, who flourished between 639 and 546 years before om' era, likened the earth 
to a bark flouting in a limitless ocean. 

According to Anaxiniander, likewise of Miletus, and disciple of Thales, the earth was cylin- 
drical, and occupied the centre of the created universe. 

Anaximenes, a disciple of the former, assigned to the sun the form of a thin disk, and to 
the earth that of a trapezium sustained in the air, and the same opinion was entertained by 
Anaxagoras of Clazomeuo, likewise a philosopher of the Ionic school. 

Xenoplianes of Colophon, founder of the Eleatic school, supposed the earth to be illimita- 
ble and supported in the abyss on immovable foundations. Parmenides and Empedocles, 
dissenting from tliis opinion of Xenophanes, pronounced, perhaps before any one, the doctrine 
of the sphericity of the earth and of its isolation in space. 

The cosmical opinions of the Pythagoreans, as stated by Philolaus, a diaciple of the great 
master, were these: in the centre of the universe there exists a mass of fire, the soul of the 
world, aroimd which revolve in a circle ten bodies in the following order : first and most dis- 
tant, the heavens with the fixed stars ; next tlie five planets ; then the sun, the moon, the 
earth, and finally the Aniichthon, a mysterious conception, which, indulgently interpreted, 
would seciii to signify the terrestrial hemisphere opposite to that inhabited by ourselves. The 
basis of this system, one of the most judicious bequeathed us by antiquity, was puicly men- 
tal, or the offspring of an invention governed by mystical abstractions and vague axioms re- 
Bpecting the virtues of numbers. To support it, instead of having recourse to tiio observatiou 
of natural phenomena, it was assumed, for instance, as a principle, that fire, being of a more 
exalted or worthy nature than earth, nuist by right occupy the place of greatest dig'nity, and 
that in any series of different bodies that place must correspond either with Iho centre or the 
extremes. From this reasoning the reader may form an estimate of the system of Philolaus, 
a system, liowever, which not all the Pythagoieans received without restriction and modifica- 
tion, for while some, as llicetas, lleraclides and Epiphantus, attributed to the earth a move- 
meutof rotation from west to east, others, and among them perhaps Pythagoras himself. 
Whose original ideas have not been transmitted to us, thought the earth immovable in the 
midst of the universe. 

Leucipi)us and Democritus, both of the Atomic sect, maintained, towards the middle of 
the htth century, like tlie Ionic philosophers, that the earth was a plane disk immovable in 
apace and supported by the air. 

It was in the early half of the fourth century before Christ that astronomy, based on the 
observation of the celestial pheuomeua, began to flourish among the Greeks. At that time 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 313 

The great truth cannounccd by Copernicus, the basis of existing astronomy, 
encountered at the time more oppon(;nts than partisans ; nor was it possibh^ that, 
in detect of good instruments and delicate observations, he could corroborate 
by incontestible facts the surprising revelations of his intellect; he could but 
consign to after ages the contirmation of his theory. In vain did Tycho Brahe, 
contrary to what might have been expected from his 'profound knowledge of 
celestial phenomena, impugn in the name of science, and that so late as the 
close of the sixteexitli century, the astronomical system of Copernicus ; in vain, 
at the commencement of the seventeenth, was it sought, in the name of more 
sacred but ill understood interests, to convert into a stumbling block the public 
belief in the movement of the earth: the truth wrought its own way, and from 
Galileo onward, for every adversary there were hundreds who sustained it. 
At present there is no longer any discussion about it ; he who controverts it 
is regarded as irrational, and meets in universal indifference the reproof of liis 
stolid incredulity. 

II. 

If the knowledge, whether certain or presumptive, of the ancient philoso- 
phers and mathematicians respecting the roundness and rotation of the earth, 
cannot be considered as the origin or basis of the ideas at present received on 
both those points, but merely as a remote antecedent completely forgotten at the 
revival of the discussion in modern times, the same thing nearly may be predi- 
cated of the researches undertaken to find the value of the radius of the earth's 
circumference. The analogy, it is true, is not entirely exact, for in these latter 
researches two things are to be distinguished : the method or principle on which 
they are founded, and the results finally obtained. The first as devised, two or 
three centuries before our era, by Eratosthenes and Posidonius, both of the school 
of Alexandria, is the same with that employed in our own time, as is shown in 
our Annual for 1862 ; the results of the method, whether from the imperfec- 

lived Eudoxus of Gnidus, a disciple of Plato, usually resident at Cizycum at the entrance of 
the Euxiup, and one of the most distinguished among the learned of his time in the field, 
both of theory and practice. To explain the appearances of the heavens, on the hypotiiesis 
of the repose of the earth, Eudoxus conceived the first idea of crystalline spheres with axes 
in different directions, and also with different movements. New facts having been discovered, 
Calippus, a disciple of Eudoxus, in place of 26, admitted 33 spheres, a number which Aris- 
totle found it necessary to raise to 55. These spheres, supposed at pleasure and symbolical 
of as many insoluble difficulties in the cosmical system followed by these savants, became 
established principles in the minds of the philosophers who had imagined them, as well as 
in those of their disciples, and consequently obtained unquestioned currency in the world. 

Aristotle, taking up anew and analyzing the ideas of his predecessors, and rejecting almost 
all of them, a proof of their fundamental impracticability, admitted, however; Jst. That the 
earth is spherical, because such is the apparent form of all the firmameutal bodies ; such also 
the form which a body, as a drop of water for instance, assimies when left to the free gravi- 
tation of its panicles; and sitch the form of the earth's shadow in eclipses of the moon. 
2d. That the dimensions of the earth cannot be extended in an indefinite plane, seeing that 
with cA-ery change of place there is a change also in the aspect and number of the visible 
stars ; and 3dly, That it cannot be movable in space, since its hypothetical mobility meets 
with no reflection in the constant position of other bodies of the universe. The system of 
Aristotle, based on the observations and conjectures of Eudoxus and his disciples, was that 
adopted by Euclid, Archimedes, Hipparchus and Ptolemy. 

A o-eneratioR a; er Euclid, who entitled one of his theorems "The earth the centre of the 
universe," and while the opinions of Aristotle and his followers were in the highest favoi-, 
there was a formidable protest against them advanced l)y Aristarchus of Samos, who flourished 
in the earlier half of the third "century before our era, and who was one of the most distin- 
guished luminaries of his age. Aristarchus exploded all the spheres of Eudoxus and Aris- 
Totle, set the earth again at'liberty, assigned to the sim and stars their true posiUon, and laid, 
in a word, the basis of the Copernicau system ; but in opposition to Aristarchus iqipeared 
Archimedes, on behalf of science, and Cleanthes, chief of the stoic sect, in defence of the 
faith and religious prepossessions of the age, and the happy conception of tlie suge of Samos 
remained sunk in oblivion, or passed into the category of dreams, until, in the process of time, 
it revived with new vitality and brighter evidence in the mind of the recluse of Thorn. 



314 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

tion of instruments, the want of precision on tlie part of observers, or from 
liavinj^ reached us in obscure expressions or in units vagui,'ly understood, have 
been of no service to modern geometers. Five of these final results ai-e cited 
by Bailly in his Uistory of Ancient Astronomy, and these, doubtless, are not all 
that might have been cited; it is sufficient to compare them with one another, 
to perceive how little guarantee of exactness either of them affords a priori, or 
without subsequent corroboration. According to Aristotle, the opinions received 
in his time assigned 400,000 stadia as the circumference of the earth; Ptolemy 
adopted 180,000 ; Eratosthenes and Posidonius respectively 250,000 and 
240,000; Cleomedes 300,000. The learned historian above mentioned explains 
these enormous discrepancies, which could not have resulted from the ignorance 
or dullness of the observers, in a suHiciently natural maimer, by assigning a 
different value in each case to the stadium ; assuming, as the state of knowl- 
edge at his time respecting ancient measures seemed to indicate, four kinds of 
stadia, approximately of 100, 136, 170 and 230, metres each, he arrives at the 
conclusion that these results, so discordant in appearance, are in the main iden- 
tical, and not remote from those obtained by modern investigation. But Bailly 
himself, one of the most enthusiastic defenders of ancient science, agrees with 
us in thinking that the geodesic Libors of the astronomers but little anterior to 
his own epoch, as well as those of his cotemporaries, were conducted in complete 
independence of the investigations of remote ages and Avithout reference to a 
coincidence of numbers. Leaving to himself, therefore, the responsibility of his 
ideas, which we shall neither attempt to defend nor contravene, and judging 
this to be no occasion for reporting the earnest arguments adduced by highly 
respectable authors both for and against his views, let us concede, not to anti- 
quity in general, but to a part of its philosophers, a knowledge, however loosely 
approximate, of the dimensions of the earth ; and with this concession, let us 
pass to an exposition of the geodesic labors of times nearer our own and of 
more authentic character, though not all marked by an undoubted stamp of 
exactness.* 

Towards the year 830 of our era, the Arabian astronomers measured, by 
order of the wise Caliph Almamon, an arc of the meridian in the plain of 8ind- 
giar, near the coasts of the Red Sea ; but the result of this operation made but 
little approach to the truth, or was either confusedly expressed at first or has 
been corrupted in the transmission. 

In the year 1490, as Martin de Navarette relates in his compendious History 
of the Spanish Marine, our learned countryman Antonio de Nebrija, determined 
by various measurements and observations the quantity of a terrestrial degree, 
and obtained a number more near the truth than those before deduced. Subse- 
quently, Glareans, in Switzerland, and Oroncio Fineo, in France, undertook and 
accomplished a labor analogous to that of Nebrija ; and the same thing, with 
even better success, was effected by the French physician Fernel, who founded 
his estimate on the number of revolutions made by the wheel of a carriage 
in its transit from Paris to Amiens, cities situated under nearly the same me- 
ridian. t 

In 1617, the Dutch astronomer Schnell revived the method of Eratosthenes, 
and applied it, with better means and more accuracy than had yet been observed, 

*The reader who may desire to know the slight or deficient foundations on which rest the 
conjectures of the authors who maintain the profound astronomical science of the ancients 
may consult the treatise of Sr. Vasquez Queipo, entitled. Essay on the Metric and Monetary 
Systems of Ancient Nations, tome J, ])p. (i5, 6(3, and note 10, corresponding thereto. 

t Upon the points licre treated of, and other analogous ones not less deserving to be known, 
the reader will find critical notices of great value in the discourse relative to the progress of 
geodesy, read by Sr. Saavedra Meneses, at the beginning of the present year, on his recep- 
tion into the Academy of Sciences. 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 315 

to the measurcmeut of the arc of 1° 11' 30" comprised hetween Alkmaar and 
Bergen-op-Zoom ; but the result of his uudei'taking, calculated and discussed 
by Muschembrock, did not see the light until a later period, when others had 
been oljtaiued of the same kind with higher pretensions to certainty. 

In like manner with SchncU, Norwood determined, in lOoO, the difference of 
latitude between York and London, equal to 2^ 28', by the difference of the al- 
titude of the sun between their respective horizons at the period of the sol- 
stices ; and afterwards measuring the distance between those cities, he arrived at a 
valuation, too great however, of the length of a degree of the meridian; making 
it 57,442 toises, or about 111,955 metres. 

For its novelty, if nothing else, there should be mentioned in connexion 
with the preceding attempts the method proposed by Manrolico, at that epoch 
of measurements, to determine the terrestrial radius. Assuming the unc|uestion- 
able fact that the extension or breadth of land which, seen from the sea-shore, 
or in the interior of a nearly level cotintry, depends at once on the height at 
which the spectator is stationed, and on the curvature or radius of the earth, 
Manrolico thought that by measuring the height of a mountain near the sea 
and the route traced without change of direction by a bark until it disappears 
below the horizon, the value of the radius sought might be deduced, without 
reference to, any astronomical observation. This process, put in practice at a 
later period, with some variations, and only by way of trial, has led to a result 
greater than might have been expected, being complicated with some causes of 
error and uncertainty ; we do not know that the solution of the problem was 
ever attempted in the lifetime of its author. 

Another idea, ingenious like all proceeding from the same source, occurred to 
Kepler, and Riccioli undertook to realize it, although in practice, from the im- 
perfection of instruments among other considerations, it could not but lead to 
a result very distant from the true one. The idea consists in measuring upon 
any given surface of ground the greatest lineal distance possible, and then cal- 
culating the angles of the two respective verticals with the common line of 
vision comprised between the extremes of the base. It requires but a slight 
notion of geometry to comprehend how delicate was the operation which Ric- 
cioli took charge of, and how little reliance could be placed on results deduced 
from such a process. 

These different estimates — for they merit no other name — towards ascertaining 
the magnitude of the earth, were but the prelude to other more exact processes, 
and show the necessity that was felt, but 200 years ago, of obtaining a pre- 
cise knowledge of the dimensions of our planet, as well as the oblivion into 
which the labors of antiquity had fallen or the small importance attached to 
them. In proof of this, let us remember that at the end of the fifteenth century and 
beginning of the next, Columbus shaped his coiu-se towards the unknown shores 
of India and Magallanes traced his adventurous progress across the Pacitic, 
upon the delusive supposition that the earth was of much less size than it really 
is; and that, in the midst of the seventeenth century, Newton himself, in 
whom the highest genius was not at variance with extensive erudition and a 
sound judgment, found himself under the necessity of suspending his researches 
respecting the reciprocally attractive action of the earth and the moon, in con- 
sequence of the want of an approximate valuation for the radius of our globe. 
So pressing did the necessity referred to appear, that when the Academy of 
Sciences of Paris was instituted, in 1666, one of its first acts was to commit to 
Picard, a distinguished member of that learned assembly, the measurcnieut of 
a new arc of the meridian ; a Avork which this astronomer completed before the 
end of 1670, by the method adopted by Eratosthenes and Posidouius, as well 
as by Schuell and Norwood, but which was executed with so much accuracy 
in the details as to form an epoch in the annals of astronomy and geodesy. 



316 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

Between Villojuif and Juvisi, Picarcl measured a base of 5.663 toises, and 
by mcaud of five triangles, resting on that line, deduced a distance from Mareil 
to Malvoisin equal, in the units just cited, to '32S97. This line, much greater 
than the lirst, served him now for a base to connect Malvoisin with Sour- 
don, near Amiens, by a chain of triangles in the direction of the meridian. 
The arc comprised between the two last points was 1° 11' 57", and the dis- 
tance deduced from the triangulation and projected on the meridian was 68.4.30 
toises ; whence there resulted for the value of a terrestrial degree the number 
57064. Still later, Picard extended the operations to Amiens, and the degree 
then stood reduced to 57.057 toises ; or, taking a middle term, to 57.060 ; 
a result which, assuming the sphericity of the globe, implied as the length of 
the earth's radius 3,269,300 units of the above name.* 

Although in this memorable operation, on which we have dwelt somewhat, 
as being the first among those really worthy of confidence, Picard displayed 
great talent and activity, the result obtflincd was closely approximate to the 
truth only through a singular combination of errors ; since, as appeared in the 
sequel, there was a very considerable one in the value of the first base, nor 
was that which existed in the quantity of the arc insignificant; two circum- 
stances which, as they affected the result in opposite directions, were neutral- 
ized as regarded the operation itself, but were afterwards the source of much 
extraneous confusion and of long and warm discussions : a sad proof that im- 
perfection, under some disguise or other, lurks in all the works of man ; and 
that, without doing injustice to the memory or merits of the learned, wc should 
never blindly surrender our belief to their authority. 

The rotation of the earth being by this time a fact received without contra- 
diction in the scientific world, of necessity soon drew with it its natural conse- 
quences : thus, the ideas of the less weight of bodies at the equator than in 
the neighborhood of the poles from the eff'ect of the centrifugal force opposed 
to gravitation, and of the compression of the globe in the direction of the axis 
of movement, had begun to take root in all refiecting and unprejudiced minds, 
when an observation, in some degree unexpected, gave confirmation to this 
view of the question. The academician Richer, having been sent to Gruiana, 
in 1672, for scientific purposes of different kinds, returned to his country the 
following year, and among other results of his expedition presented to the 
Academy an observation which, though incidentally made, proved to be the most 
important of all : the astronomical pendulum which, at Paris, gave an oscilla- 
tion of one second, was found to move more slowly in Guiana, to the extent 
of making in a day 88 oscillations fewer than at the former point. This indi- 
cated an energy of gravitation at the equator inferior to that in high northern 
latitudes, the existence of the centrifugal force due to the rotary movement of 

* Tlie toise spoken of is that of Franco, containing 0.39459 feet, which dates from the time 
of Chaiiemague, ami is said to have originated with the Arabs. For many centuries the 
standard of this unit of measure was little known, and from time to time underwent modifi- 
cations, tiie results of ignorance or carelessness more than of fraud, until in lOGrf a new one 
was prepared and deposited in a secure place, in order to serve as a type for all of its kind ; 
it was to this standard that Picard and the geometers who succeeded him referred their geo- 
desic operations. A century afterwards the iron rule which was adopted for the standard of 
measmement of trigonometrical bases in Peru, also a toise in length, but better constructed 
than the toise of Picard's time and in a better state of preservation than the latter, was, at 
the suggestion of Condamiue, declared to be the legal miit, at a temperature of l'.P Reaumur, 
or 1(5" centigrade, that having been its medium temperature during the operations near 
the equator. The subsecpieut labors of Delambro and JMechain served to fix the length of 
the new lineal unit, or, in other words, of the metre, which, at tho temperature of 0" is, in 
lines, 44;?, 290, thus establishing between the metre and the toise the ratio of 1 to 1.94901)031. 
This last number has been employed as factor in the remainder of this article, while it has 
been thought proper to convert tho ancient units into the modern, or more usual of tho deci- 
mal metric system. 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 317 

tbe earth, and the great probability of the ellipticity of the globe. But as the 
ideas of attraction and of central and centrifugal forces had not as yet become 
familiarized, and as the phenomenon discovered by Richer might proceed from 
an unknown cause, the Academy suspended its judgment upon the consequences 
deducible from that pheuomeuon, until new and repeated observations should 
confirm or disprove them. The confirmation was not long deferred, for llalley, 
repeating four years after in St. Helena the same experiments v/hich Richer 
had made, obtained an identical result, and the fact has subsequently been real- 
ized in all the regions of the earth as well as upon the high seas. 

We may take this occasion to remark that in the study of nature there arc 
problems whose solution, after resisting for ages all the forces of man, seems at 
some determinate epoch to become practicable in a hundred different ways ; such 
a problem, undoubtedly, was that which now occupies us. In the sixteenth 
century Copernicus, Galileo, and Avhosoever thought as they did respecting the 
movement of the earth, were regarded with scorn or aversion ; in the middle 
of the seventeenth, the roundness and rotation of the globe are admitted Avithout 
difliculty ; in 1G70 Picard determines by a satisfactory process the value of 
the earth's radius ; two years later, the observations of Richer show that the 
form of the globe differs sensibly from the spherical ; about the same time, Cas- 
sini, by means of the telescope, perceives and measures the remarkable oblate- 
ness of Jupiter, thus supplying from analogy a weighty reason for admitting 
without other proof that of the earth ; while Huyghens and Newton, preceding 
and directing, as it were, the methods of observation, deduce the same result 
by process of reasoning, establish the extreme limits within which its numeri- 
cal expression must be comprised, and ascend to the cause from which it pro- 
ceeds. Honorable epoch for the human intellect in which such capital discov- 
eries rapidly succeed one another ! "With the songs of triumph, however, soon 
mingle the notes of discord, and for some years the problem of the figure of 
the earth remains stationary and proves to be beset with unexpected difficul- 
ties. 

The Academy of Paris, stimulated by the prompt and apparently satisfac- 
tory termination of the measurement of the terrestrial degree by Picard, con- 
ceived the idea of prolonging the operations instituted by that savant from oi)^. 
extremity of France to the other, or, more precisely, from Amiens to Perpig- 
nan ; a bold enterprise for that epoch, which the intelligent activity of Domin- 
ico Cassini realized in the latter part of the century. But when Cassini, the 
operations and calculations being concluded, compared with one another the 
values of the 7^ of the meridian measured, he observed with surprise that their 
length continually diminished from south to north, as if the curvature of the 
earth increased towards the poles, or its radius diminished ; or, in other terms, 
as if the compression of the globe corresponded to the equatorial region, contrary 
to all that Avas then conjectured or deduced from theory ; a consequence which 
the same astronomer still arrived at after having prolonged the French meridian 
north from Amiens to Dunkirk, at the end of the year 1713. A conflict thus 
became unavoidable and imminent. On the one hand, the authority of Newton 
interposed itself; on the other, that, scarcely less weighty, of the French geom- 
eters, as well as the national pride of the latter ; and as between the extremes 
in discussion there could be no possible compromise, the scientific world Avas 
divided into two parties ; all that had been done or deduced to determine the 
true figure of the earth w^as brought before the tribunal of opinion, from the 
principle of the universal attraction of matter to the ability of the observers who 
had officiated in the measurement of the arc of the meridian. After much time 
had been lost in barren and heated discussions, the French Academy of Sciences, 
at the suggestion of Maupertuis and Bougucr, two of the most distinguished 
savants of their age, adopted the only feasible plan for setting the question 

\ 



318 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

finally at rest. With this view, two delegations, composed chiefly of members 
of the Academy, and provided with the most delicate instruments for observing 
then known, were despatched, one towards the equator, tlie other to a high 
northern latitude, for the purpose of measuring one or more degrees of the 
meridian, from the comparison of which measurements, if effected with accuracy, 
might readily be deduced the direction of the terrestrial compression and its 
value, or the amount of divergence from a spherical form. 

Mauportuis himself, assisted by Clairaut, Le Monnier, Camus, Outhier, and 
the Swedish astronomer Celsius, undertook the second of the operations re- 
ferred to, proceeding to Lapland in 173G, as far as the 76° of latitude ; and 
although it might have seemed that the rigors of the climate would preser^ ob- 
stacles little less than insuperable, he had the good fortune to terminate his un- 
dertaking in scai'cely more than two months. The triangulation extended from 
the mountain of Kittis at the north to the church of Tornea at the south ; the 
base, of 7.407 toises, was measui'ed upon the frozen river bearing the latter name, 
under conditions of exactness scarcely to be attained in any other climate ; the 
quantity of the arc measured was 57' 29", and the resulting value of the de- 
gree of the meridian equal to 57.438 toises, or 378 more than the degree of 
Picard, as would be naturally the case on the supposition of the earth's being 
flattened towards the poles. 

The other commission destined for the equator, and composed of Godin, La 
Condamine and Bouguer, had sailed a year earlier, or in 1735, and by order of 
the Spanish government was joined at Quito by D. Jorge Juan and D. Anto- 
nio de Ulloa, both worthy, from their zeal and intelligence, to co-operate with 
the French delegation. To recite the hardships to which these distinguished 
men were subjected during the eight years occupied in their prescribed task, 
the disappointments which they encountered, the deficiencies to be remedied, 
the precautions to be taken, and the sagacity and skill of which they made proof, 
would be beside our present purpose. Suffice it to say, that their measurement 
of the arc in Peru, notwithstanding the recent progress of practical astronomy, 
is still considered as a masterly operation in its kind. 

The degree of Peru, of 56.753 toises, compared with that -which Picard had 
njeasurcd in the north of France, pointed substantially to the same result with that 
already obtained by the collation of this last with the degree of Lapland ; that 
is to say, to the polar compression of the terrestrial globe. To what, then, was 
it attributable that from the examination of the different degrees of the French 
meridian there resulted a diametrically opposite consequence to the above ? 
From the fact before hinted at, that the first base measured by Picard labored 
under a considerable error, compensated, indeed, as regarded the final result by 
other errors of quite a distinct kind which were committed in the course of the 
operations, and which by a rare concurrence of circumstances operated in an 
opposite direction to the preceding. Without distrusting its exactness, Cassini 
also took that first line for the base of a triangulation much more extensive and 
important than that of Picard, and hence arose those incidental anomalies 
Avhicli involved the learned in so much confusion, until the illustrious La Caille 
divined from what source that incomprehensible difficulty emanated. Tlie base 
in question having been rectified by successive admeasurements in 1740-1754, 
and the calculations corrected, the capital discrepancy, which till that date 
had interfered with the various geodesic results, disappeared. 

In stating that the contradiction disappeared, we would only be understood 
to say that, after the epoch just referred to, there was a unanimous concur- 
rence in the fact of the defective sphericity of the earth and the flattening of 
its poles ; as regards the definite value of this, and the geometric figure to 
which our globe most nearly approaches, neither did such unanimity then, nor, 



FIGURE O^ THE EARTH. 319 

to our regret, does it Htill prevail ; perhaps, indeed, the conditions of the prob- 
lem forbid that it should ever do so. 

From the values of the degree measured in Lapland and of the mean degree 
of France, there was deduced, as the expression of the terrestrial oblatenoss the 
fraction ^^2 5 which means that, representing the equatorial radius by a length 
of lo2 units of any kind, the polar radius would be 131 of the same. A com- 
parison of the degree of Peru with the French gave for the value of this ine- 
quality the number ^L . that of the extreme degrees of Peru and Lapland 
^\q ; while, according to Newton, theory assigned to this quantity the value 
2^0- Thus it was that, in a point so delicate and interesting, it still seemed 
ditiicult to know upon what to rely, notwithstanding the diligerice and solicitude 
applied to the solution of the question in all its bearings. 

It might have seemed that here were contradictions enough ; but in propor- 
tion as other values of a degree of the meridian were determined, as by liosco- 
vich between Rome and Rimini in 1754. by Beccaria in Piedmont in i7G2, by 
Liesgauig in Hungary and Austria in 1768, by l^Lison and Dixon in xVmerica, 
about the same period, and by La Caille near the Cape of Good Hope, new ir- 
regularities or anomalies were constantly encountered, incomprehensible upon 
any one principle, or inexplicable by the adoption of any regular and unique 
type, however complicated, as the figure of the earth. The confusion grew to 
such an extent that every one felt impelled to investigate its origin ; and while 
some ascribed it to the physical conditions of the globe, admitting no assimilation 
of its form to any geometrical type, others imputed it to a defect of the instru- 
ments, others to the occasional oscitancy of the observers, and others again to 
errors of calculation. There was a little of all these. The calculations were 
revised and considerable errors detected, in the degree of Lapland among 
others; the observations were discussed, and were found not to be worthy of 
unrestricted confidence ; the condition of the instruments was examined and 
was not found to be unimpeachable ; in fine, since Bouguer first suspected it 
in his expedition to Peru until now, there have been encountered, in the local 
attractions of mountains and in the diftercnce of thickness and of material in the 
crust of the earth, numerous causes of perturbation in the direction of the ver- 
tical — that is to say, of the first line of reference ; which causes must necessa- 
rily exert an injui-ious influence on the final results of the observations. To 
whatever attributable, the fact remains, that till near the end of the last cen- 
tury the uncertainty respecting the value of the terrestrial flattening was com- 
plete. When we shall have finished the recital of geodesic operations conducted 
subsequently to those already mentioned, Ave shall see whether or not the same 
doubt exists at this advanced stage of the present century. 

The idea of establishing a system of weights and measures whose fundamen- 
tal unit, instead of being arbitrary, should present a simple relation to some im- 
portant element of the same kind derived from the physical world, induced the 
republican government of France to order in 1792 a new measurement of the 
terrestrial globe. The operations instituted by Picard and continued by the 
Cassinis, Maraldi and La Caille, on account of the imperfection of the instru- 
ments employed and the errors and doubts involved, were deemed insufficient 
for the purpose ; and Delambre and Mechain assumed the colossal task of re- 
newing them from the beginning and completing them according to various cri- 
terions. Delambre exhibited his science and talent in the measurement of the 
French meridian from Dunkirk to Perpignan, and Mechain in the prolongation 
of this 'line through Catalonia to the coasts of Valencia. The labors of these 
two celebrated geometers having been concluded in 1799, the value of the 
earth's polar compression was, with the concurrence of an assemblage of 
savants of different countries, computed at g-i^, and upon this computation the 
length of the metre, the base of the new system of weights and measures, was 



320 iFIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

taken as tlic ten millionth part of one qnarter of the meridian just measured.* 
In 1803 Mechain passed anew into Spain with the intention of prolonging the 
arc of the m;.'ridian to the Balearic islands ; but being placed in detention in 
the fortress of Mantjuich, in consequence of the ill understanding then subsist- 
ing between his own government and ours, he took the occasion to rectify his 
former calculations and observations, and from the mortification which he ex- 
perienced at observing certain discrepancies, fell into a state of dej(!ction, and 
after having been previously set at liberty, died at Castellon de la Plana in the 
year 180-5. During the two following years, Biot and Arago, assisted by the 
Spaniards Chaix and Rodriguez, not less worthy of participating in this work 
than Don Jorge Juan and Ulloa in that of Peru, carried the operation to the 
issue contcm])lated by the too scrupulous Mechain. 

The British triangulation Avas initiatcid in 1784 under the direction'^of General 
Roy, with the twofold object of perfecting the geographical chart of the United 
Kingdom, and at the same time prolonging towards the north the measurement 
of a terrestrial meridian. After being suspended in 1788, these labors were 
resumed in 1793 under the supervision of W. Mudge, who extended the geodesic 
system to the extreme confines of Scotland, and deduced, as the value of the 
earth's compression, the fraction 3^^, being identical with that obtained in 
France; yet the Spaniard Rodriguez soon after demonstrated that in the course 
of the British operations frequent and, to a certain extent, inexplicable anoma- 
lies were distinguishable. 

After the preceding measurements the following are the principal ones in the 
order of their dates : 

That of the arc of Lapland in 1801, undertaken with a view of verifying 
and extending the work of Maupertius. 

That efi'v'ctcd in India, in 1802, 1803, by Colonel Lambton, from which there 
resulted at first a flattening of ^^g^, which Rodriguez, in repeating the calcula- 
tions, reduced to ^J q. The same Lambton inaugurated another vast operation 
which, continued by Captain Everest, embraced an actual arc of more than 21^^, 
from Cape Comorin to Kaliana, north of Delhi. 

That of Piedmont, 1821 to 1823, conducted by the Italian astronomers 
Carlini and Plana. 

That of the meridian of Dorpat, begun in 1817 and 1821 by Tenner and W. 
Struvc, and Avhich up to this time prolonged north and south fi'om the frozen 
coast of Norway to the mouths of the Danube, comprises an' arc of more 
Uian 25'". 

Those of Hanover and Denmark, accomplished by Causs and Schumacher, 
it the same date with the Piedmontese triangulation. 

The Prussian, corresponding to the meridian of Kciningsberg, which, under 
the superintendence of Bessel and Bayer, exhibits a model in labors of this 
nature, and which it Avill be difficult for any future ones to excel. 

Besides these important triangulations, still another deserves notice, which 
was eflccted by Maclear in the extreme south of Africa, with the object of 



' The calculations required to fix the length of tlie metre were executed by SAvinden on the 
part of Holland, Trallcs of Switzerland. Laplace and Legendre of Franco, and Ciscar of 
Spain. Delambio showed, not long afterwards, that, as well in the selection and analysis 
of the elements of the calculation as in the calculation itself, not all the circumspection desir- 
able had been observed ; a judgment which analogous worlis, effected in the coui>o of the 
present century,' liavc fully coniirmed. The difTerence between the legal and the tiicoietic 
metre — a difference wliicli will ncvi-r be perfectly known — is, however, very small, and abates 
but little or not at all the mciit of the decimal metric system, which possesses, in other 
respects, the most unrjuestionable advantages over otlier systems now in use. Still it ia 
well to know that between (he metre and the quarter of tho meridian there does not exist the 
simple relation which was at first supposed, that unit having been reduced to a conventional 
tyj)e, as is also the case witli all others of its kind. 

On this subject may bo consulted the Tratado do Metcorologia Antiqua y Modcrna, por M. 
Saigey. 



PIGUKE OF THE EARTH. 321 

deciding wliether the curvature of tlie two terrestrial hemisplieres should be 
regarded as identical or distinct. At the end of the last century, as has been 
before intimated, La Caille had transported himself from France to the Cape of 
Crood Hope, in the design of co-operating in the solution of various astronomical 
problems which in that remote country seemed to call for an intelligent ob- 
server, and having there executed the measurement of a small arc of the mei idian, 
he obtained for the irregularity of the globe a much smaller value than any of 
the analogous ones deduced in Europe and America. How was this anomalous 
result to be explained? In oue of two manners: cither by attributing it to a 
real defect of symmetry in the form of the earth, or to an error, not easily to 
be avoided, in the operations of La Caille; but as the first was contradictory 
of the received theory and opposed to many facts well ascertained by other 
observers, and as the second was scarcely admissible in view of the recognized 
talent, industry and conscientiousness of the French savant, no one knew which 
alternative to adopt. Everest, on his return from India, inspected the locality 
where La Caille had operated, and at sight of the mountains which surrouncl 
it concluded that the distinguished astronomer might easily have deceived him- 
self, or neglected certain precautions without which no geodesic labor can really 
afibrd a sufticieut guarantee of certainty. Maclear, with due regard to the 
indications of Everest, undertook in 1837 an operation analogous to that pre- 
viously executed by La Caille, though on a larger scale and with better material 
resources ; and the result now confirmed the previsions of the theory, or the 
identity of form of both terrestrial hemispheres. 

Nor has it been only in a direction from north to south that astronomers and 
geometers have essayed to estimate the dimensions of the earth. When a com- 
parison of the first results obtained in the proceedings directed to that object 
had revealed, not only the defective sphericity of our globe, but the irregulari- 
ties or accidents which interrupt its presumed ellipticity, whether from one pole 
to the opposite, or even in passing from one meridian to another not far distant, 
the attempt was also made to measure oue or more arcs of parallel. That by 
this means, as by the former, and still better by a combination of both, a know- 
ledge of the form and volume of the earth might be obtained, is readily con- 
ceived ; and when it is considered that this new operation is even more delicate 
and troublesome than the other, the reader will scarcely wonder that till a quite 
recent epoch the number of arcs of pai-allel measured bore no proportion to the 
arcs of meridian. The Franco-Spanish commission, charged with measuring an 
arc of the latter sort in Peru, proposed also to determ'uu the value oi a degree 
of parallel, which in those regions would have been a degree of the equator, 
but a difierence of views as to the execution, added to the dii.iculties of the 
enterprise, led to a relinquishment of the project before it had begun to be 
carried into efixict. At the same epoch, 1734 to 1740, the Cassinis, Maraldi 
and La Caille measured in France two arcs of parallel, one in the latitude of 
• Paris, the other across Provence; and still later Lambton undertook in India a 
work of the same kind; but these first essays led to no definite result, and 
s.'rved only to show at once the utility of the undertaking and the difiiculties 
which its adequate accomplishment would present. The measuri;ment of a 
great arc of parallel, stretching from the neighborhood of Bordeaux to Padua, 
or from the ocean to the Adriatic, over an extent of 13° and at a latitude of 
45^ 40', was commenced u» 1811 under the direction of Colonel Crossean, and 
continued in 1820 across upper Italy by Carlini, Plana and other astronomers 
and geometers of Italy, Fi-ance and Switzerland. Besides this operation, which 
forms an epoch in the annals of geodesy, there must also be mentioned the 
measurement of another arc upon the parallel of Paris, from Brest to Strasburg, 
executed between 1818 and 1823, by the French functionaries Bonne and 
Ilenry ; another completed from Greenwich to Valcntia in the west of Ireland, 
by Professor Airy ; and a third commenced in 1857 by W. Struve, in 52^ of 
21 s 



322 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

latitmle, tlosij^netl to connect with the last, and thus embrace an arc of about 
70^. total length, from one extremity of Europe to the other. 

It would be impossible, without overstepping the limits which discretion pre- 
scribes, to carry further this enumeration of geodesic labors already accom- 
plished, or in course of execution, or projected for early realization. The eartli 
would be seen to be covered with an immense net-work of triangles, whose 
meshes interlace more and more every day, so as to leave to truth thus earnestly 
sought less and less chance of finally evading detection. In this Avork of so 
many ages, where, more peidiaps than in any other, man has displayed the 
talent and irresistible energy with which he is endowed, Spain is to-day taking 
an active and honorable i)art. The summits of our mountains, although con- 
stantly visited by distinguished military functionaries, resound not now with 
the echoes nor are seen clothed with the smoke of battle. They serve not as 
watch-towei's of wiir, but as stations for geodesic signals, true symbols of peace 
and of culture. 

But, as is opportunely asked, in order to dispel the doubt, by one of the most 
estimable intellects of our country,* To what end do so many measurements 
of the globe conduce ? What practical result is expected from such laborious 
and persevering attempts 1 Of results to be appreciated by the material and 
tangible interests involved, perhaps none; but does science pi'opose for its ex- 
clusive object the satisftiction of man's primary necessities? Hunger and thirst 
appeased, is there, indeed, nothing beyond ? Wretched 'would be the science 
which would shut itself up within such narrow limits, which should restrict the 
soul to the care of its frail tenement, and seek in the secrets of nature no trace 
of its Creator, which should refuse to lift itself from the abject to the elevated, 
from the slough of earth to the etherial regions of infinity. And taking for 
granted that there is nothing fortuitous in the universe, and that the earth, instead 
of being spherical, is elliptical, or of a more complicated form, does not science 
fulfil its appropriate task when it investigates the true figure of this little globe 
of GUI'S, not for the simple pleasure of knowing it, but with the further purpose 
of discussing the reason of that form, its origin, the changes experienced, the 
perturbations by Avhich it may have been affected, the influence it exerts or the 
function it fulfils in the admirable co-ordination of the created whole? If all 
this is not worth the trouble of investigation, to what other mystery of the physi- 
cal world should man, in preference, consecrate his studies ? 

III. 

Having mentioned the principal geodesic operations which have, at difi'erent 
times, been efi'ected in difterent countries, to determine the form of the earth, 
it remains only to indicate the manner in which the partial results deduced from 
those operations have been combined, in order to obtain the final result, which 
is, at present, regarded as most approximate to the existing reality. Three 
distinct modes have been successively adopted for arriving at the proposed end. 

As the result of inexact observations, and an incomplete theory, it was first 
assumed that the earth's figure was perfectly spherical. The labors of Picard, 
and of the French geom(!ters, who immediately followed him, conclusively 
demonstrate the fallacy of this supposition ; since, in contradiction of such an 
hypothesis, very diffei-ent terrestrial radii were found to result from the several 
degrees of meridian measured, and within limits too wide to admit of the infer- 
ence that tliese differences were, collectively, attributable to errors of observa- 
tion, or mistakes in calculation. 

The laws even then recognized, of the universal attraction of matter, the 

aspect of certain planets, such as Jupiter, which exhibit a flattening towards 
» 

* Sr. Vasquez Queipo : Disquisition on fho Discourse of Senor Saavedra Meneses, before 
cited. 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH, 323 

their poles, or the extremities of the axis of rotation, and an induction founded 
on well-proved facts, showing that the terraqueous globe existed, at some very- 
remote period, in a state of perfect fluidity, furnished suificient grounds for con- 
cluding that the earth, instead of being spherical, would naturally present an 
elliptical figure, or one slightly depressed in the direction of the polar axis. 
This being conceived, it remained simply to deduce from geodesical operations 
the value of the depression, or, Avhat amounts to the same thing, the relation of 
the two axes of the generating ellipsoid, as well as the definite dimensions of 
those axes, for all which it had, in strictness, sufficed to measure two small 
arcs of meridian in widely separated latitudes — one, for instance, near the equa- 
tor, the other in some inhabitable region nearest to either pole ; nor, on the 
above supposition, would it have been of consequence whether those arcs cor- 
responded to the same or to difi"erent meridians, while any intermediate arc, 
which might be measured, would serve for the verification of the former, as well 
as of the law of ellipticity, assumed as a point of departure. When the results 
of the scientific expeditious to Peru and Lapland were known, and were com- 
pared in the proposed view with those obtained in France, and for the first time 
the values of the oblateness of the earth and of the equatorial and polar axes 
were deduced, it was observed, not without surprise, that between the final de- 
ductions drawn, with the aid of so much experience, and with the theoretical 
ideas generated by those laborious investigations, there did not exist all the 
conformity which had been hoped for. The discordance, however, was at once 
attributed, not so much to the defect of the theory, as to the errors, to a certain 
extent inevitable, which had been committed in the course of the operations, or 
to local irregularities in the surface of the earth ; but, as time advanced, and 
instruments were improved, while the obstacles already overcome served as 
useful indications to succeeding observers, the conviction was acquired, cither 
that the form of the earth was not so simple and regular as was at first sup- 
posed, or, more probably, that the heterogeneity of its mass, and the inequality 
of the thickness of its crust, acting as disturbing causes, embarrassed the labors 
of geodesy, and opposed their indefinite advancement. Certain it is, at any rate, 
that at the close of the last century, as has been already intimated, great inde- 
cision prevailed as to the real value of the earth's ellipticity, and that, but for 
the resort to an ingenious mode of eluding the difficulty, the same doubt would 
have prevailed on this point to the present day. A single citation will prove 
the truth of what has been just said. The "Russian general, Schubert, a dis- 
tinguished mathematician and astronomer, collated, in a memoir published at 
St. Petersburg in 1859,* the elements of the eight principal arcs of meridian 
yet known, being the Russian arc, measured by Hansteen, Sclander, Struve, 
and Tenner ; the Prussian, the English, and the French arcs ; the arc measured 
in Pennsylvania by Mason and Dixon ; that in Peru, by the Franco-Spanish 
commission ; that in India, by Lambton and Everest ; and that measured at 
the Cape of Good Hope by Maclear. By combining these eight arcs, two hy^ 
two, in all possible manners, the Russian savant deduced, for the elements 
of the terrestrial ellipsoid, twenty-eight difTerent results, between limits much 
wider, doubtless, than the reader would imagine. Limiting ourselves, for 
example, to the polar compression, the twenty-eight valuations just cited 
group themselves in this manner : Three are higher than the fraction 3^17 ; fo"!' 
are higher than ^iij, and lower than the preceding fraction ; nine are comprised 
between the last and ^i^ ; seven between that and -^^ ; three between -r^^o and 
5I0 ; and two, finally, being those corresponding to the combinations of the 
Russian with the Prussian arc, and of the arc of the Cape with that of Pennsyl- 
vania, are lower than the fraction y^W- Supposing even that there weregood 
and sufficient reasons for subtracting from the extreme values, it will still be 



* EsMi d'une Determination dc la Veritable Figure de la Tcrre. 



324 FIGUKE OF THE EARTH. 

seen from this slight analysis of Schubert's work that there is a wide field for 
the exercise of doubt. 

If it be conceded that the spherical figure of the earth is not admissible, and 
the elliptical appears as little accordant with the most probable results of obser- 
vation, what other geometrical type will represent, better than these two, or 
more approximately than the second, the general form of our globe ] None, in 
fact; for neither the more complicated figure, which Bougucr imagined, nor the 
idea of separating the axis of symmetry from the polar axis, suggested by Klii- 
gel, conceptions, both of them, which the theory of the attraction and primeval 
riuidity of the earth excludes, are found to be exempt from the grave incon- 
veniences which oppose themselves to the adoption of the second supposition. 
Of this truth Schubert himself supplies us with a good proof. In his memoir 
above cited, after analyzing the divergences, with reference to the form of the 
earth, according to the elements from which that form is deduced, and investi- 
gating the causes from which so great a discordance might proceed, he concludes 
by maintaining that the earth resembles, not so much an ellipsoid of revolution, 
as an ellipsoid of three axes, or, what is the same thing, that the meridians are 
to be regarded as unequal ellipses, and the equator and parallels as also el 
lipses, and not as circles, as had, till that date, been believed. But the same 
astronomer, who seems so Avell persuaded of this consequence from his first in- 
vestigations in April, 1859, afiirms, in January, 1861,* that, setting aside the 
arc of India, he does not find, in the rest of the geodesic operations, any grounds 
for doubting that the terrestrial globe is an ellipsoid of revolution, compressed 
in the direction of the poles. What does this change of opinion, tliis vacillation, 
in a man of Schubert's merit prove, if not that this last figure represents that 
of the earth, as far as a geometrical abstraction can represent the forms, full of 
life and harmonious adaptability, of natural objects ? 

But, admitting the elliptical form, it still remains to determine its constitutive 
elements, and its dimensions ; and, with this view, what is the combination of 
arcs of meridian which should be preferred to the rest, whether for the precision 
■with which those arcs have been measured, the merit of the geometers to whom 
the operations were intrusted, or the favorable circumstances of time and terri- 
tory in which they were executed 1 No single combination whatever : First. 
Because all that astronomers of merited reputation and conscientiousness profess 
to have done should be considered to be well done, or, at least, to be comparable 
with what other astronomers, endowed Avitli the same qualities, are capable of 
realizing, under the penalty of introducing into the science a principle of endless 
confusion. Secondly. Because the differences which occur in the elements of 
the terrestrial ellipsoid, taken by sejDarate combinations of arcs of meridian, indi- 
cate, not so much a defect in the operations, or a fault in the observers, as a real 
irregularity in the form of the earth, or the existence of disturbing causes, such 
as the local attraction of mountains, and even those, scarcely avoidable in prac- 
tice, which proceed from the unequal density and thickness of a plane surface. 
And thirdly. Because if, in all strictness, the form which we seek docs not co- 
incide with the preconceived figure, the interests of truth will always vindicate 
their claim to recognition, if not by an apparent simplicity, at any rate by other 
more fertile qualities than pertain to any theory, however simple and seductive. 
In order, then, to deduce the geometrical figure of the earth the proper course 
would seem to be to take into view all the partial measurements Avhich have 
been made, or such, at least, as are distinguished by some notable circumstance, 
as the place to which they correspond, the extent they embrace, or the accuracy 
which has marked their execution, rejecting, of course, all which manifest care- 
lessness on the part of the observers, or defect in the instruments which they 
have been obliged to employ ; and, assuming that the ellipsoid of revolution is, 

* Astronomische Nachrkhtcn, No. 1303. 



FIGURE. OF THE EARTH. 



325 



in theory, and to a certain point also by experiment, the hypothetical figure 
most conformable to reality, the final problem, one of pure mathematical analysis, 
and not certainly exempt from difficulties, will consist iu finding, by a collation 
of the values of the several arcs of meridian and parallel already measured, 
or hereafter to be measured, the curvature and dimensions of tjie ellipsoid of 
the above species, which, without exactly satisfying one or two geodesical 
operations, represents the results of all with the closest possible approximation. 
In this difficult labor the Germans, Walbeck and Schmidt, by combining, re- 
spectively, six and seven degrees of meridian, Bessel ten. Airy fourteen of 
meridian and four of parallel, and, finally, the Englishman, Colonel II. James, 
eight arcs of the former kind, which afforded the greatest assurance of exact- 
ness, arrived independently at results closely coiuciding with one another, each 
of which might serve, in the absence of the rest, for a definite solution of the 
problem with which we are occupied. In the first of the two following tables, 
taken, though not entire, nor in the form here presented, from the Annual 
(Jahrbuch) of the Observatory of Berlin, for 1852, are .shown the principal 
values given by the above mathematicians, together with the elements of the 
ellipsoid, which served for the establishment of the decimal metric system, in 
the calculation of which, as was before said, only the results obtained iu Peru, 
France, and Lapland were taken into account, and that, too, before these were 
competently known. In the second table are presented other values, relative 
likewise to the form and volume of the earth, deduced from the fundamental 
elements of the globe, calculated by Bessel, and not less worthy of attention 
tlian those contained in the former table. The initials employed in both tables 
signify as follows : 

In the first, R and r, the equatorial and polar radii ; D, their difference ; C, 
the polar compression of the globe, or the difference of the radii referred to the 
greater ; <? , the square of the eccentricity of any meridian ellipse, or, say, the 
difference of the squares of the two principal radii, referred to the square of the 
equatorial radius ; Q and q, the values of the equatorial and meridian quadrants; 
and D and d, the values of a single degree of the equator and of a mean degree 
of meridian, computed in metres like all the preceding which do not- express 
abstract relations. 

In the second table the sign (p marks the latitude or distance from the equator 
of the place or point to which the numbers on the right refer ; M expresses the 
value of an arc of meridian of a single degree, comprised between the first and 
the corresponding latitudes of the margin ; P, that of a degree of parallel ; R, 
the terrestrial radius or distance of the surface from the centre of the earth 
variable with the latitude ; and A, the area in square kilometres, comprised be- 
tween two meridians separated by a degree of the equator and two parallels, 
between which intervenes a degree of meridian for different latitudes. 

Elements of the terrestrial ellipsoid. 
TABLE 1. 





(1799.) 


Walbeck, 
(1819.) 


Schmidt, 
(1829.) 


Bessel, 
(1841.) 


Airy, 
(1849.) 


James, 
(1858.) ' 


R 


G375739 

635GG50 

19089 

'334. 00 

0. 005979 

10014988 

10000000 

111277. G 

111111.1 . 


G376895 

6355832 

2J0G3 

'30-2.78 

0. 00G595 

1001G803 

100002G8 

111297.8 

111114.1 


G376959 

G355.'')22 

21437 

'297.48 

0. 00G712 

1001G904 

10000074 

111-298.9 

11111J.9 


G377397 

G35G079 

21318 

'299. 15 

0. 00GG74 

10017592 

1000085G 

J1130G.G 

in 120. G 


6377480 

G35G175 

21.305 

'299. 33 

0.00GG71 

10017722 

10000990 

111308.0 

111122.2 


6378283 


r.. .. 


635G686 


D 


21597 


C 

C2 


'294. 26 
0. 0067S5 





10018933 


a 


10001966 


D 


111322.0 


i 


111)33.0 







326 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 



TABLE 2. 



<>■ 


M. 


P. 


R. 


A. 





110564 
565 
566 
568 
571 

574 

578 
583 
588 
594 

600 
608 
616 
624 
633 

643 
653 
664 
675 

687 

700 
713 
726 
740 
754 

769 
784 
800 
816 
833 

110849 

867 
884 
902 
920 

938 
956 
975 
994 
111013 

032 
051 
071 
090 
110 

129 
149 

168 
183 
207 


111307 
290 
239 
155 
037 

110886 

701 
482 
230 
109945 
627 

275 

108890 

472 

021 

107538 

022 
106474 
105893 

280 
104635 

103958 

250 

102510 

1739 

10(^938 

106 
99246 

8350 
7427 
6475 

95493 
4482 
3442 
2373 
1277 

0153 

89001 
7822 
6616 
538-4 

4125 
2841 
1531 
0196 

78837 

7454 
6047 
4616 
3163 
1687 


6377397 
7391 
7372 
7340 
7296 
7239 

7168 
7085 
6990 
6882 
6761 

6628 
6483 
6327 
6160 
5981 

5790 
5588 
5376 
5154 
4922 

4680 
4428 
4166 
3895 
3616 

3228 
3033 
2730 
2419 
2102 

6371778 
1447 
1111 
0770 
0424 

0073 

6369718 

9360 

8993 
8633 

8266 
7897 
7526 
7154 
6783 

6412 
6040 
5669 
5299 
4931 




1 


12306 


2 


302 


3 


295 


4 


284 


5 


269 


Q 


251 


7 


229 


8 


204 


9 


175 


10 . 


142 


11 


106 




066 


13 . 


022 




11975 


15 , 


924 


16 . 


870 




812 


18 


751 




686 


20 


618 


21 


546 


22 


471 


23 


392 


25 


310 
224 


26 


135 




043 


28 


10947 




848 


30 ^ 

31 


746 

10640 


32 


531 


33 


419 




304 


35 


186 


36 


064 




9939 


38 


811 




681 


40 


548 


41 


411 


42 


271 


43 


129 




8983 


45 


835 


46 


684 




531 


48 


375 




216 


50 


054 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 
TABLE 2— Continued. 



327 



M. 



R. 



51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 

56, 

57, 
58 
59 
60 

61 
62 
63 

64 
65 

GQ 

67 

68 

69, 

70, 

7] 



73.. 

74- 

75.. 



76 

77 
78 
79 
80, 

81, 
82. 

83, 
84. 

85, 

86. 

87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 



226 
245 

264 
283 
301 

320 
338 
356 
373 
391 

408 
424 
440 
456 
472 

111487 
501 
515 

529 
542 

555 
567 
578 
589 
599 

609 
619 
627 
635 
642 

649 
655 
661 
666 
670 

673 
676 
678 
679 
680 



0189 
68670 
7130 
5569 
3987 

2386 
0766 
59 J 27 
7470 
5794 

54101 
2392 
0667 

48926 
7170 

45399 
3614 
1816 
0005 

38182 

6347 

4500 
2643 
0775 

28898 

7012 
5118 
3216 
1307 
19391 

17469 
15542 
13610 
11673 
9733 

7790 

5845 
3898 
1950 



4565 
4202 
3842 
3486 
3134 

2786 
2442 
2 J 03 
1769 
1442 

1122 

08U9 

0503 

0204 

6359913 

6359631 
9358 
9094 

8838 
8592 



8129 
7914 
7711 

7518 

7337 
7167 
7009 
6863 

6728 

6606 
6496 
6399 
6315 
6244 

6185 

6138 
6106 

6(,i87 
6079 



Total area 509,950,715 square kilometres.. 

Volume 1,082,841,311,330 cubic kilometres. 

From the examination of the first of the above tables it results that, if we- 
adhere to the geodesic operations aloue, the number -j^^ expresses by how muclv 
the terrestrial globe differs from the spherical form, and the numbers 6,377 and 
6,358 (kilometers) give the dimensions of the greater and less or equatorial and 
polar radii, an approximation which might, in all probability, be qualified with 
a higher degree of exactness by adopting either the fundamental elements given 
by Bessel, the astronomer of the most enviable reputation of the curr(;nt century, 
or those deduced somewhat later, and, of course, from more copious data by the 
distinguished director of the Observatory of Greenwich, Professor Airy. The 



328 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

exactness, or, at least, close approximation of the number j^-^j, is found, more- 
over, to be confirmed by another class of considerations extraneous, in a certain 
degree, to geodesy, and very indirectly related to those which served the two 
celebrated astronomers last mentioned as a basis and guide in their valuable 
labors of c()ml)ination and analysis. 

It was remarked at the close of the second pai't of the present article that 
nothing in nature is fortuitous ; and it might well have been added that not only 
is nothing fortuitous, but there is nothing without a reason for its being as it is, 
nothing susceptible of being essentially modifi(!d without communicating an 
impression to oiher organic parts of the complicated mechanism of the universe. 
The movement by which the moon is carried around the eartli does not dept>nd 
exclusively on the intervening distance or the respective masses of the two 
bodies, but on tli(^ distribution of their masses in concentric groups or on the 
figure of both globes. If the earth were spherical, the movement of its satel- 
lite would not be that which is always observed; nor if the discrepancy from 
that simple form had been represented by a fraction differing from g-i^- would 
this fact have failed to disclose itself in a degree more or less sensible in some 
of the accidents which characterize the lunar movement : theory, based upon 
the laws of universal attraction, laws announced by Newton and so sagaciously 
developed by Laplace, indicated the orbit which the moon was destined to de- 
scribe on the hypothesis of the polar depression of our globe being less by -^^ 
than the equatorial radius, and observation promjitly confirmed all the conclu- 
sions to which the theory had pointed. Few astronomical discoveries reflect 
more honor on the human intellect than the valuatioti of the earth's ellipticity 
based upon the principles which have been just cursorily mentioned. 

But it is not necessary to withdraAV our eyes from the globe we inhabit to 
discover other means, besides those which are strictly geodesical, not only of 
demonstrating the ellipticity of its form, but of verifying the limits within 
which the eccentricity of that new figure is comprised. Our readers will doubt- 
less readily infer that the process alluded to consists in the use of the pendu- 
lum, whose oscillations are more or less rapid in different parts of the earth, 
by reason of its form being sensibly and essentially different from the spheri- 
cal. When Laplace announced the relation existing between the movement of 
the moon and the oblateness of the earth, Olairault, in a special treatise on the 
subject, had already stated the law of interdependence by which the continu- 
ous depression of the globe from the equator to the poles is associated with 
the variations of gravitation or of the weight of bodies, and consequently with 
the oscillatory movement of a pendulum on the surface of that globe. By both 
geometers the task of verifying tlic truth of their theories was bequeathed to 
after experiment, and in both cases the previsions of mathematical analysis and 
the results of observations long and carefully repeated have been found to be 
perfectly accordant. 

In the long period which elapsed from the date when the French academician 
Richer first noticed the retardation of the pendulum in the equatorial zone, 
to that when the Spanish admiral, Malespina, undertook his justly celebrated 
voyage of scientific exploration in 1789, the experiments made with the pendu- 
lum were numcn-ous and interesting, in so far as they were directed to the 
demonstration of the ellipticity of the earth and the accidental irregularities 
which distinguish it; but those undertaken with a view to determine the value 
of that ellipticity have been neither so many nor were they so early as the 
former. In 182G Bcssel showed the inaccuracy or want of care in the process 
till then followed for deducing from the oscillations or length of a compound 
pendulum, moving in air and at a variable temperature, the corresponding ele- 
ments of a simjde pendulum, oscillating in a vacuum and in a thennal state of 
absolute invariability ; and, even much later, Humboldt thought that experi- 
ments Avith the pendulum, comparable in delicacy and precision with the 



FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 329 

multitude of other, the most common, astronomical or geodesical operations, 
would scarcely amount in number to sixty. So scanty a result should, in our 
opinion, be attributed to two quite distinct causes. In the comparative experi- 
ments made with the pendulum, there is sought, in the first place, a difference of 
length or of numbers so small that the least inadvertence in the operation, or a 
disturbing cause unworthy elsewhere of consideration, Avill materially influence 
the result and impair its exactness. Andmoreovei% even when the observations 
are conducted throughout with all the requisite accuracy — a thing, we repeat, 
of great difficulty — still the theoretic principle of their combination for dedvicing 
the terrestrial ellipticity supposes that the density of our globe, though variable 
according to an arbitrary law from the surface to the centre, continuos'identically 
the same in each layer concentric with the superficial one ; an hypothesis which 
departs in some degree from the reality of nature, and which on that account 
cannot lead to results of absolute certainty. After these considerations, it will 
not be a matter of surprise that the values of the terrestrial ellipticity, deduced from 
experiments made in the present era by Borda first, and afterwards by Biot, 
chiefly at different points of the French meridian, by Kater in England, by the 
navigators Freycinet, Duperry, Sabine, Foster and others, under very different 
and distant latitudes, should sensibly vary from one another, and likewise to 
some extent the final number, deduced from the examination of all of them, when 
compared with that which results from the sum of the principal geodesic labors. 
But to Avhat at most does the difference amount 1 From the experiments made 
with the pendulum, there results as the value of the earth's polar compression 
the number ^q, somewhat greater than the fraction gl^ and less than ^; the 
difference of these two extreme fractions is equal to -^^qq ; so that the d'ifference 
of the results obtained by help of the pendulum and by the ordinary processes 
of geodesy will be found to be represented by a number still less than the last. 
Admitting, then, that the value of the equatorial radius is in metres 6,377,397, 
there would remain in the length of the polar radius an uncertainty of 2.362 ; 
and this, it must not be forgotten, on the supposition, really more unfavorable 
than is warranted, that the doubt respecting the polar compression of the earth 
would present to us as equally uncertain the two fractions 3J ^j and -^^-^j. But 
the relation of the number 2.362 to the value of the equatorial or the polar 
radius is lower than that of 1 to 1000 : thus in the appreciation of a quantity 
composed of a thousand equal parts, it would be at last doubted whether we 
had counted one part more or less than Avas proper ! Instead of being surprised 
at the existence of such an uncertainty as this, it might well cause astonishment, 
as Prof. Airy has remarked in reference to this subject, that man should have 
arrived at a knowledge so precise in a matter so difficult and obscure ; while 
there is still room for confidence that further advances are in his power, and 
adequate encouragement to persist in the pursuit of the truth. 

That this confidence and encouragement exist is shown by a simple reference 
to the projects of new geodesical operations and experiments, suggested by 
some of the most celebrated of cotemporary astronomers. In 1857, for example, 
Biot proposed to the Academy of Sciences of Paris that a new determination 
should be undertaken, by methods and with instruments more delicate than 
were before known, of the whole extent of the arc of Peru as well as of the 
various arcs of parallel measured in Europe ; that experiments with the pendu- 
lum should be multiplied in those localities where considerable anomalies have 
been noted in the direction of the vertical, or where their existence is suspected, 
with a view to ascertain their cause or causes ; in a word, that no means should 
be spared of discovering all the accidents of form and density which distinguish 
the terraqueous globe from the theoretical ellipsoid deiined by Bcssel and the 
mathematicians who, with a degree of precision difficult to surpass, have cither 
preceded or followed him in this enterprise. The ideas of Biot, de'iberately 
considered and digested eventually into the colossal project of measuring a n(;w 



330 FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 

arc of meridian extending from Palermo to the parallel of Cristiauia and Upsal, 
across seas and continents prodigiously diversified, and intermediate to tlie Rus- 
sian arc in the east and that stretching from Fornientera to the Shetland isles 
in the west uf Europe, have been zealously seconded by the Prussian general 
Bacyer, tlie companion of Bcsscl in the geodesic operations of Koenigsberg, and 
distinguished alike for his knowledge and experience. In the memoir relative to 
this matter, which he published in Berlin in 18G1, Baeyer does not ask the pro- 
tection of govcrmcnts, nor invoke the learned of all countries to unite their 
efforts, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the polar compression of the 
earth is a hundred-thousandth part greater or less than it is believed to be ; he 
holds, on the contrary, that the geometrical problem is resolved ; but the physi- 
cal and geological problem, closely associated with the real figure of the globe, 
he regards as scarcely yet defined. The idea of Baeyer, which Biot, as we 
have seen, also cherislied, and which equally exercises the thoughts of other 
savants, would doubtless be realized, if the local influences Avhich embarrass 
and complicate the geodcsical operations, instead of being avoided as heretofore, 
were purposely sought for and measured ; if, wherever practicable, the net-work 
of triangles were extended around and over the surface of seas and of volcanic 
regions, and across the valleys and mountain-chains of more abnormal compo- ' 
sition; if the instruments for measuring distances and angles were rendered 
comparable in some sort to the balance of the chemist and the goniometer of the 
mineralogist ; in brief, if, after having defined the external figure of the earth, 
geodesy should penetrate, as it were with the eyes of induction, into the interior 
of the globe, in order to reveal to us the origin of that figure, the transforma- 
tions it has experienced, and the stability, whether little or great, which it pos- 
sesses for resisting the destructive assaults of time. Considered under this new 
aspect, the question presents an extraordinary interest, opens to view an indefi- 
nite and almost unexplored horizon, and affords one proof more of the close 
interconnexion which exists among all the natural sciences. Let the project 
of Baeyer or some analogous one be transferred to the field of practice, and the 
nineteenth century will have won yet another title to the consideration of the 
ages to come. 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES 

PERFORMED 

WITH A VIEW TO THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the works of Francis Arago, late secretary 
of the French Academy of Sciences, Sfc. 



I. — THE INVENTION OP BALLOONS. 

Man, by reason of Lis weight, and the weakness of his muscular power, 
seemed doomed to creep on the surface of the earth, and to have been disquali- 
fied for studying the physical properties of the higher regions of our atmosphere, 
except through the toilsome ascent to mountain summits. But what ditKculties 
are there over which genius, united with perseverance, will not eventually tri- 
umph 1 From the most remote times the idea of soaring into the air, far above 
all terrestrial objects, by means of machines which the imagination endowed 
with pi'operties unfortunately of impossible attainment, has never ceased to oc- 
cupy the human mind. Who has not heard of the attempts of Dedalus and 
Icarus, of the projects of Koger Bacon, and of Fathers Lara and Galen ? But, 
until 1783, it had been granted to no one to realize the dream of so many ages. 
Joseph i\Iichel Montgollier, who was born in 1740, at Annonay, in the depart- 
ment of the Ardeche, and who died, a member of the Academy of Sciences, in 
1810, had calculated that through the rarefaction, by means of heat, of the air 
contained in a pajDcr balloon of a certain extent, an ascensional force might be 
given it sutficent for elevating men, animals, and any desired instruments. So 
much confidence had he in his theory that he did not hesitate to undertake, June 
5, 1783, a public and formal exhibition before the deputies of the provincial 
estates of Vivarais, a,ssembled at Annonay. Montgolfier has himself described, in 
the following terms, this first experiment, which forms an epoch in the history of 
the most important discoveries : " The aerostatic machine was constructed of 
canvas, lined with paper, and covered by a network of twine attached to the 
canvas. It was nearly of a spherical form, and of a circumference of 110 feet, 
(35™.73 ;) a frame of wootl, 16 feet square, steadied it on its base. * Its capacity 
was about 22,000 cubic feet. It, therefore, displaced, supposing the mean weight 
of the air equal to g^^ of the weight of water, a mass of air equivalent to 1,980 
pounds, (969 kilograms.) 

" The weight of the gas (heated air) was nearly half that of the air, for it equal- 
led 990 pounds, and the machine, with the frame, weighed 500 pounds. For the 
rupture of equilibrium there remained, therefore, 490 pounds, as was found con- 
formable to the experiment. The diiferent pieces of the balloon were fastened 
together simply by means of button-holes and buttons. Two men sufficed to 
lift and fill it Avith gas, but it required eight to retain it. When released, at a 
given signal, it mounted with an accelerated velocity, though less rapid towards 
the end of the ascension, to the height of 1,000 toises, (upwards of 6,000 feet.) 
A wind,. scarcely perceptible at the surflicc of the earth, bore it to the distance 
of 1,200 toises from the place of departure. It remained ten minutes in the air. 
The loss of gas by the button-holes, needle punctures, and other imperfections, 
prevented any longer suspension. The wind was, at the time, southerly 



332 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

with rain. The baHoon descended so lightly that it broke neither the branches 
nor iVamcs of the vineyard ou which it finally rested." 

The gas employed in this experiment was nothing but air dilated by heat, 
but its nature was not stated in the report of the ascension publit^hod in the 
joui'uals. Without waiting for further indications, the artist Hobert and the 
physicist Charles, by means of a national subscription, which was readily ad- 
vanced, constructed, of lutestring coated with gum elastic, a balloon four meters 
(13.12 feet) in diameter, which they filled with hydrogen gas, procured by 
the action of diluted sulphuric acid on iron filings. This balloon ascended from 
the Champ de Mars, August 27, 1783, at five o'clock in the afternoon, in 
presence of an immense crowd, and heralded by salvos of cannon. It remained 
but three-quarters of an hour in the air, and fell at Gonesse, near Econen, five 
leagues distant from Paris. Thus was demonstrated the possibility of making 
balloons of varnished material, nearly impermeable by hydrogen, the lightest 
of known gases, and possessing great advantages over -the heated air. Yet this 
means of obtaining very considerable ascensional force with balloons of limited 
dimensions was not immediately adopted, and sundry experiments were suc- 
cessively made with very large aerostats inflated with air heated by a fire of 
straw mixed with a little wool. It was with such a balloon, having an oval 
form, a height of 23 meters, a diameter of 15, and a capacity of 2,056 cubic 
meters, that Pilatre do Roziers and d'Arlandes made the first aerial voyage 
which man had ventured to undertake in balloons wholly detached and uncon- 
fined. Ascending from the Chateau de la Muette, Nov^ember 21, 1783, they 
traversed a distance of two leagues at an elevation of about 1,000 meters, having, 
in their transit, hovered over Paris for 20 or 25 minutes. The 1st of December 
following, Charles and Robert ascended from the Tuilleries in a spherical balloon, 
made of lutestring coated with gum elastic, and having a diameter of only 8.50 
meters, Avhich was inflated with hydrogen. After a passage of about nine 
leagues the balloon touched the earth at Nesles, where Robert left the car, while 
Charles reasceuded and reached an elevation of abcut 2,000 meters, alighting 
finally two leagues further on, after having experienced a cold of — 5^, or -+- 
23 Pah., when the thermometer indicated on the ground +7°, 44| Pah. Prom 
this day dates the demonstration of the practical possibility of balloon voyages — 
voyages always adventurous, but which have become, at a later period, a pastime 
with per.-^ons of leisure. I shall not speak here of the attempts which have been 
made to derive advantage from, aerostats in military expeditions, nor of the nu- 
merous contrivances to direct their course throiigh the air, nor of the unfortunate 
experiment of uniting the action of fire with the employment of hydrogen, for 
which l*ilatre de Roziers atoned with his life, nor of the substitution of illumi- 
nating gas for hydrogen, a substitution which renders these enterprises less 
costly, but *rhich diminishes the ascensional force of apparatus of a determinate 
dimension. I must restrict myself to aeronautic voyages, performed with a view 
to the advancement of science. 

We must refer to the old Academy of Sciences if we would find*an account 
of the first voyages by which science was benefited through the employment 
of ballo >us, in which hydrogen gas was used as an agent. The expeditions of 
MM. Biot and Gay Lussac, made in 1804, were preceded by the ascensions of 
Robertson, Llioest, and Sacharoff, which yielded some interesting results ; but 
not until after nearly half a century were the remarkable voyages of MM. Barral 
aud Bixio undertaken, followed shortly afterwards by those of Mr. John Welsh. 

IF. — RESEARCHES TO BE MADE IN AEROSTATIC ASCENSIONS. 

Those who propose to undertake aerial voyages form, in general, no idea of 
the number of questions to be resolved, nor of the difiiculties to be surmounted 
in order to furnish science with certain elements of discussion. The instru- 
ments requisite for investigating, as well the temperature as the hydrometric 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 333 

state of the air, the plienomena of the magnetic needle, the proportions of po- 
larized light contained in the light of the atmosphere, the diaphaneity, the 
color more or less blue of the different strata of air, &c., do not exist at all, or 
else require important modifications before being applied to the research of the 
laws by which the phenomena vary with the height, which is itself not deter- 
mined with entire precision by barometrical observations. For half a century 
many learned bodies — the French Academy of Sciences, that of St. Pctcrsburgh, 
the British Association for the advancemimt of science, the Academy of Dijon, 
&c. — have directed inquiry to the means of supplying the defect of which I 
speak, and of furnishing aeronauts with adequate instruments of investigation. 
But the problem has been by no means considered under all its aspects, and is 
very far from having received a complete solution; at all events, the suggestions 
which have been derived from the voyages of Biot and Gay Lussac, and especially 
from those of Barral and Bixio, should be taken into serious consideration by 
those whose zeal shall hereafter prompt them to encounter the perils of such en- 
terprises, in the view, particularly, of reaching the most highly rarefied aerial 
regions, atid traversing the atmosphere under its most variable conditions. The 
principal questions on which the attention of such explorers should be fixed 
are the following : 

1. The law of the decrease of atmospheric temperature with the elevation. 

2. Influence of the solar radiation in the different regions of the atmosphere, 
deduced from observations made npon thermometers whose bulbs are coated 
with very different absorbing substances. 

3. Determination of the hygrometric state of the air in the several atmos- 
pheric strata, and comparison of the indications of the psychrometer with the 
dew-point at very low temperatures. 

4. Analysis of the air from different heights. 

5. Determination of the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the higher 
regions of the atmosphere. 

6. Examination of the polarization of light by cloitds. 

7. Observation of different optical phenomena produced by the clouds. 

8. Observation of the diaphaneity, and of the intensity of the blue color of 
different strata of air. 

9. Observation of the declination and inclination of the magnetic needle, and 
of the intensity of magnetism. 

10. Study of the electric state of different atmospheric strata. 

11. Experiments on the transmission and reflection of sound in different 
strata of air in a serene state of the sky, and in a sky containing clouds. 

12. Physiological observations on the effects produced by the rarefaction of 
the air, "very low temperatures, extreme dryness, &c. 

The instruments at the disposal of the voyagers should be the sai?ie as those 
•which, by my ov.-n advice, and that of my illustrious colleague, M. Regnault, were 
carried by MM. Barral and Bixio in their expeditions, and which they would 
have continued to use had they been able to make other ascensions, to wit : 

1. Two siphon barometers, graduated on glass, of which the aeronaut need 
observe only the upper meniscus, the position of the lower meniscus being given 
by a table constructed after direct observations made in the laboratory. Each of 
these barometers shov;ld be provided Avith a thermometer divided in centigrade 
degrees, so as to present a scale extending from +35° to — 39^. It is now 
known that the aeronaut may encounter strata of air having a temperature 
lower than that of the congeation of mercury ; hence the ordinary barometer 
will not answer, and an instrument should therefore be furnished, founded 
on the pressure exerted by the atmosphere on an elastic spring, and tested at 
very low temperatures under feeble pressures obtained by the pneumatic machine. 

2. A vertical thermometer, of arbitrary graduation, the cylindrical reservoir 
of which is placed in the axis of several concentric envelopes of bright tin, open 



334 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

at tLcir bases to admit the circulation of air. This arrangement has been devised 
in order to obtain, at least approximately, the temperature which a thermometer 
would indicate in the shade. 

3. Three thermometers, having arbitrary scales, attached to a metallic plate 5 
centimeters apart. The reservoir of the first of these thermometers should have 
a vitreous surface ; the surfiice of the second should be coated with lamp- 
black ; and the reservoir of the third should be covered with a cylinder of 
polished silver, which must also envelop a portion of the stem. The reservoirs 
should be narrow cylinders, much elongated. Immediately below the reservoirs 
the metallic plate should support another plate brightly coated with silver. The 
plate bearing these thermometers should be arranged horizontally on one of the 
Bides of the car, with a view to its remaining constantly exposed to the solar 
radiation. 

4. A psychrometer formed by two thermeters of an arbitrary scale. 

5. One of Regnault's condensing hygrometers. 

6. Tubes of caustic potash, alid also of pumice, wet with sulphuric acid, for 
the determination of the carbonic acid of the air. The air should be drawn in 
by means of a pump of the capacity of one litre (1.760 pint) accurately gauged. 

7. Tavo balloons of one litre capacity, furnished with stop-cocks of steel, for 
collecting the air of the higher regions. These balloons, enclosed in tin bexes, 
■should be scrupulously exhausted of air before the ascent. 

8. A minimum thermometer of M. AValferdin, which should be enclosed in a 
tin cylinder, pierced with holes. It is best that this instrument should be placed 
under seal, as was done by MM. Barral and Bixio, since the control of the per- 
sonal observations by means of a mute instrument imparts considerable value 
when they come to be verified, and affords a triumphant reply to objections 
which, through a natural tendency of the human mind, always ojjpose themselves 
'to results which cannot be immediately verified by new experiments made under 
the same conditions. In the event, moreover, of the ascension of the balloon to 
heights where the temperature falls below — 40°, the point of congelation for 
mercury, it will be necessary to have thermometers of alcohol or sulphuret of 
carbon, graduated below that point of the thermometric scale, so that the obser- 
vations may not be interrupted by a circumstance Avhich has ceased to be con- 
sidered as of impossible occurrence. 

9. It is from the considerations just stated, that I would recommend also the 
use of the apparatus devised by M. Regnault, and intended to indicate the 
minimum of barometric pressure, and consequently the maximum of elevation to 
which the balloon has attained. This apparatus should be enclosed in a tin case 
pierced with numerous small openings. The lid of this case should be secured 
with a seal like the minimum thermometer. 

10. Polariscopic telescopes, such as I have described, Astronomie populaire, 
ii, p. 101. 

11. Instruments for showing the declination, inclination, and intensity of 
magnetism, suspended in such a manner as not to be aflFected by the movements 
of rotation of the balloon in its ascent, as has been observed by MM. Biot, Gay 
Lussac, Barral, and Bixio. 

12. Electrometers so constructed as to be capable of indicating at once the 
kind and the intensity of the electricity of difiereut atmospheric strata. 

It is scarcely probable that in an ascension, observers will be able to embrace 
at one time so many subjects of study, or use successively and opportunely so 
many instruments. The aeronaut should, on each occasion, limit himself to a 
small number of important inquiries. It is only in a series of aeronautic expe- 
ditions that a collection of records can be made corresponding to the great number 
of questions which the constitution of the ten-estrial atmosphere presents for 
solution. 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 335 

It is impossible to frame a programme whiob will embrace all tlie points 
wortbj of examination; wc are constrained to admit tbat tlie unforeseen will 
always play a principal part in aeronautic expeditions. We know little at 
present of tbe constitution of clouds, of tbe pbenomeua of refrigeration produced 
by tbcir evaporation, of tbe mixture of strata of air differently saturated witb 
humidity and derived from very different sources, of tbe action of electricity 
wbich traverses great aerial spaces, &c. In every case it is desirable tbat, during 
tbe progress of aerial voyages, tbere should be made, at least from hour to hour, 
in the principal terrestrial observatories, observations analogous to those which 
the aeronauts propose to undertake. This was advised in 1S41 by a committee 
of the British Association, in a report relative to the advantages which science 
might derive from aerostatic ascensions, a report signed by Brewster, Herschel, 
Lubbock, Robinson, Sabine, Whewell, and Miller, and the advice was observed 
by MM. Barral and Bixio, who were thus enabled to connect the phenomena 
noticed in the higher regions of the air with those which occurred at the same 
time on the surface of Europe. 

Barometric observations in connexion with those of temperature }-ield, by 
means of a formula which we owe to the genius of Laplace, the measure of the 
elevation to which balloons ascend above tbe level of the sea. This formula has 
been reduced into the usual tables which are found in the Annualre du bureau 
des longitudes. The considerations on which the illustrious geometer founded 
his analysis led him to employ in \\.U admirable formula a coefficient whose 
determination Ramond bad arrived at, by comparing a great number of the 
measurements of the height of mountains taken with tbe barometer with their 
trigonometric measurements. Now, as Kamond operated chiefly under the par- 
allel of 45^, and upou mountains whose elevation scarcely reached 3,000 meters, 
there is nothing to prove that the undetermined coefficient of Laplace's formula 
is susceptible of being applied to the measurement of much more considerable 
heights, and made in other latitudes. It would not be superfluous to measure 
directly, by observations made from several astronomical stations situated at 
known distances, the heights to which aeronauts attain, and to compare the 
results obtained Avith the barometric determinations. No doubt these operations 
will present numerous difficulties, and may be not uufrequcntly tried without 
success, because the balloons may disappear in the clouds or be carried in 
directions which will not permit the terrestrial telescopes to follow them with 
any advantage. But the problem to which I here call attention merits by its 
importance the sacrifices which may bo encountered in giving it a satisfactory 
solution. 

III. — AERONAUTIC VOYAGES OF LHOEST, ROBERTSON, AND SACHAROFF. 

The first aeronautic voyage to which science was indebted for some useful 
indications was that performed at Hamburg, July 18, 1803, by the physicist, 
Robertson, accompanied by Ids countryman, Lhoest. They remained suspended 
in the air five hours and a half, and descended at Hanover, twenty-five leagues 
distant from the place of departure. 

At tbe moment of the ascension the barometer on the earth stood at 28 inches, 
and the thermometer at+16^ Reaumur; at the greatest height to which they 
attained the barometer showed 12.4 inches, and the thermometer — 5^.5 Reaumur. 
These observations, reduced to metric and centigrade measurements, give 758 
millimeters for the barometric height, and + 20^ for the temperature at starting ; 
336 millimeters and — 6^.9 at the highest point reached. Hence, according to 
the formula of Laplace, we deduce 6,831 meters as the maximum height to 
which the balloon ascended. 

The two aeronauts thought that at that height they observed the oscillations 
of the magnetic needle to be much less rapid than at the surface of the earth, 
and that consequently the magnetic intensity diminishes rapidly as the elevation 



336 AEEONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

iu the atmnsplicro increases. They also reported that they had experienced 
much pliyt^ical t^uffering, and observed phyt>iological phenomena, f^uch as the 
Bwelliiijj of the lips and veins, the bleeding of the eyes, tScc, which have not 
been uniformly verified in subsequent expeditions. 

However this might be, the Academy of Sciences of St. Pctersburgh deter- 
mined on a repetition of the experiment to be made by Robertson himself, assisted 
by Sacharoff. one of its own members, distinguished both as a physicist and 
chemist. This second expedition took place June 30, 1804. The aeronauts 
ascended from St. Pctersburgh at 7 hours 45 minutes p. m., and descended at 
10 hours 45 minutes, near Sivoritz, at a distance of about 20 leagues. At the 
moment of departure the barometer stood at 30 inches, and the thermometer at 
19^ llcaumur; at the greatest elevation the two instruments indicated respect- 
ively 22 inches and 4^.5 Reaumur. We conclude from these observations that 
the barometric pressure and the temperature Averc, at the point of departure, 812.1 
millimeters, and + 23°.7; at the greatest elevation, 595.5 millimeters and + 5^.6; 
and from this it results that the highest point reached was 2,703 meters. MM. 
Robertson and Sacharoff were not able to make re";ular mag-netic observations, 
but they felt authorized to affirm that the needle of declination had ceased to 
be horizontal, and that its north pole Avas elevated about 10 degrees, its south 
pole having an inclination of the same amount towards the earth. 

IV. — VOYAGES OF BIOT AND GAY LUSSAC. 

Saussure, after a scries of observations made on the Col du fleant at a height 
of 3,435 meters, conceived it to be ascertained that at that height the magnetic 
intensity undergoes a sensible diminution, which he estimated at about one-fifth. 
This result appeared to bo verified by the aeronautic voyages of Robertson, 
Lhoest, and Sacharoff, just spoken of. But the proof's of the fact were not 
given in a sufficiently decisive manner to secure it a definitive reception into 
science, and the question appeared important enough to the principal members 
of the Institute, Laplace, Berthollet, Chaptal, to jusl^ify a special experiment. 
This Avas intrusted to MM. Eiot and Gay Lussac, who ascended from the garden 
of the Conservatoire clcs arts ct metiers, August 24, 1804, provided with all the 
necessary instruments. The small dimensions of the balloon did not allow the 
two aeronauts to reach the height of more than 4,000 meters, and at that eleva- 
tion the temperature, Avhich had been+17°.5 on the earth, had only sunk to 
+ 10^.5. Leaving at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, they descended, about half 
after one, 18 leagues from Paris, in the department of Loiret. Taking advantage 
of the moments when the movement of rotation of the balloon in one direc- 
tion stopped, being about to be resumed in the opposite direction, the learned 
physicists were able to determine the duration of five oscillations of the magnetic 
needle iu different aerial strata, and they obtained the following results : 

Heights. Duration of 5 oscillations. 

meters 35.25 seconds. 

2,8G2 " 35 

2,897 " 35 

3,038 " 35 " 

3,589 " 34 

3,6G5 "* 35.5 " 

3,742 " 35 " 

3,845 " 36 

3,977 " 35 

Thus the observations agree in giving 35 seconds for the duration of five 
oscillations, or at least the observed difiercuces arc too small to allow of any 
conclusiou being drawn from them. 



I 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 337 

Under these circumstances it was evident that a new ascension ought to be 
undertaken. This time Gay Lussac ascended alone. He rose from the garden 
of the Conservatory, September 16, 1804, at 9 hours 40 minutes in the morning. 
Ho alighted at 3 hours 45 minutes, between lloucn and Dieppe, 40 leagues from 
Paris, near the village of Saint (lourgon. 

The distinguished savant had furnished his aerostat with long cords, designed 
to moderate its movement of rotation, and he could consequently count more 
easily the oscillations of the magnetic needle; he obtained the following results: 

Heights. Duration of 10 oscillations. 

meters 42.I6 seconds. 

3,371 " 41.5 

3,857 " 42.0 

4,551 " 42.5 " 

4,294 " 41. « 

4,367 " 43.0 

4,765 ^' '42.2 

4,848 " 42.8 

5,277 " 42.2 " 

5,671 " 42.5 

6,146 " 42.0 

6,182 " 41.0 

6,923 " 41.7 " 

From these observations, which do not present sufficiently appreciable dif- 
ferences, Gay Lussac drew the conclusion that the magnetic force does not 
undergo sensible variations up to the greatest heights which we can attain. In 
regard to this he thus expresses himself: "The consequence which we have 
drawn from our experiments may seem a little too precipitate to those who 
remember that we have not been able to make observations on the inclination 
of the magnetic needle. But when it is remarked that the force which causes 
a horizontal needle to oscillate is necessarily dependent on the intensity and 
direction of the magnetic force itself, and that it is represented by the cosine 
of the angle of inclination of this last force, the conclusion which we have 
arrived at cannot fail to be drawn, that, since the horizontal force has not 
varied, the total force cannot have varied, unless one chooses to suppose 
that the magnetic force may vary precisely in an opposite direction, and with 
the same relation to the cosine of its inclination, whfch is not at all probable. 
We have, moreover, in support of our conclusion, the experiment of the incli- 
nation which was made at the height of 3,902 meters, and which proves that 
at that elevation the inclination did not vary in a perceptible degree." This 
conclusion was logical at an epoch when it was not generally known that at a 
given place and under given circumstances the duration of the oscillations of a 
magnetic needle is influenced by its temperature. Now, the depression of the 
thermometer of Gay Lussac had been sufficiently considerable to produce 
noticeable changes in the magnetic needle. We see that, in the imperfect state 
of the instruments and the science in 1804, it was impossible to arrive at an 
exact solution of the problem which the Institute had in view. Even at 
present this problem is still unsolved. 

The principal result of the aeronautic voyage of Gay Lussac relates to the 
constant composition of the atmospheric air to a height of 7,000 metres. The 
illustrious physicist had the good fortune to bring the first air from those high 
regions, and to give an analysis of it, whose accuracy has been uniformly veri- 
fied by new experiments conducted with the improved processes which science 
has discovered during half a century. 

Another fact, no less important, is the wide difference which Gay Lussac 
found between the temperatures below and at the great height to which Ikj 
22 s 



338 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

ascended. At the moment of his departure the barometer registered 765.25 
millimeters, and the thermometer +27°. 75; at the greatest elevation these 
instruments gave 328.8 millimeters for the pressure, and —9°. 5 for the tem- 
perature. It results that Gay Liissac rose to the height of 7,016 meters above 
the mean level of the sea, and that he found himself exposed to temperatures 
differing by 37°. 

I shall not speak of the hygrometrical observations, because it only results 
from them, as from the greater part of those which have been made to this day, 
that the dryness of the air becomes very considerable in high regions of the 
atmosphere. Plair hygrometers are instruments whose indica ions are so little 
comparable with one another that it is impossible to deduce precise conclu- 
sions from them. 

Gay Lussac has reduced to their just value the recitals of physical sufferings 
which are supposed to be felt in very elevated strata of air ; he expresses him- 
self on this subject with perspicuity and simplicity : " Arrived at the highest 
point of my ascension, 7,016 meters above the mean level of the sea, my respi- 
ration was sensibly embarrassed ; but I was still very far from experiencing a 
degree of inconvenience Avhich could induce me to descend. My pulse and 
respiration were much accelerated ; and, breathing thus rapidly in an air of 
extreme dryness, I could not be surprised at having the throat so dry that it 
was painful for me to swallow bread." 

It is thus seen that the ascensions of Biot and Gay Lussac are the first 
which have been made with marked success as regards the solution of scientific 
questions. 

V. — VOYAGES OF BARRAL AND BIXIO. 

MM. Barral and Bixio made two aeronautic voyages, by the last of which, 
especially, science was enriched with unforeseen results of great impoi'tance. 

In reporting to the Academy of Sciences an account of the first exciirsion of 
these intrepid physicists, I expressed myself in nearly the following terms : 
" MM. Barral and Bixio had conceived the idea of ascending to a great height 
in order to study, with the improved scientific instruments of the present day, 
a multitude of atmospheric phenomena still imperfectly known. It was pro- 
posed to determine the law of the decrease of temperature with the height ; the 
law of the diminution of humidity; to ascertain whether the chemical composi- 
tion of the atmosphere is the same throughout ; the portion of carbonic acid at 
different elevations ; to compare the calorific effects of the solar rays in the 
highest regions of the atmosphere with these same effects observed on the sur- 
face of the earth ; to determine whether there arrives at a given point the same 
number of calorific rays from all points of space; whether the I'ght reflected 
and transmitted by clouds is or is not polarized, &;c. 

The instruments necessary for so interesting an expedition had been pre- 
pared with great care and precision by M. Regnault. Never has the love of 
science been manifested with more disinterestedness. M. Walferdin furnished 
several of his ingenious thermometers. The explorers were, besides, provided 
with barometers very accurately graduated, for determining the height at which 
the different observations Avere made. 

The aeronauts had intrusted the preparation of the balloon to M. Dupuis 
Delcourt, who had distinguished himself by twenty-eight aerial voyages. All 
the arrangements were made in the garden of the Observatory of Paris. The 
ascension took place Saturday, June 29, 1850, at 10 hours 27 minutes in the 
morning, the balloon having been filled with pure hydrogen gas ];rocured by 
f the action of chlorhydric acid on iron. 

According to all previous calculation, the explorers might now have expected 
to rise to the height of 10,000 or 12,000 meters, supposing the upper strata of 
the atmosphere to correspond with received theoretical ideas. 



AERONAUTIC VOYOGES. 339 

At the moment of departure, however, it might easily be seen that in several 
respects the aerostatic apparatus, was imperfect. The balloon, in consequence 
of the prevalence of high winds, had been torn at many points, and mended 
with too great haste ; the rain fell in torrents. What was to be done? It had 
been most prudent, perhaps, not to ascend, but the aeronauts rejected the idea. 
They placed themselves in the car, and boldly launched into the air, without 
even taking the precaution, so violent was the wind, of determining with a 
balance the ascensional force of the aerostat. Their ascent was extremely 
rapid ; the spectators compared it to that of an arrow ; they very soon disap- 
peared in the clouds, and it was above the curtain which thus shrouded them 
from the view of man that the stirring scenes took place which remain to be 
described. 

The dilated balloon pressed with great force on the meshes of the netting, 
which was much too small. It expanded from above downwards ; descended 
on the aeronauts, whose car was suspended by cords which were too short, and 
covered them in some sort like a hood. At this time the adventurers found 
themselves in a situation of the greatest difficulty ; one of them, in his efforts to 
disengage the cord of the valve, caused an opening in the inferior prolongation 
of the balloon ; the hydrogen gas, which escaped nearly on a level with their 
heads, almost suffocated them, and caused excessive vomitings and momentary 
syncope. , 

Consulting the barometer, they found that they were descending rapidly, 
and, in seeking to ascertain the cause of this unexpected movement, they dis- 
covered that the balloon was torn in the region of its equator to the extent of 
nearly 2 meters. They now perceived, but with a composure which merits 
admiration, that all they could hope was to escape with life. It is no little 
to say that the velocity of their descent was much greater than that of their 
ascent. They discharged all their remaining ballast, threw overboard even the 
coverings which had been provided against the cold, including their furred 
boots, but parted with none of the instruments of research. 

They fell, at 11 hours 14 minutes, in a vineyard, the ground of which was for- 
tunately soft, in the commune of Dampmart, near Lagny. The laborers and 
vine-dressers ran to their help, and found the two aeronauts clinging by the 
feet and hands to the stems of the vines, in order to counteract as far as possi- 
ble the horizontal movement of the car. The most earnest assistance was 
rendered them. 

From a voyage performed under such conditions it is evident that science 
could derive but a very small amount of information in comparison with what 
might have been expected ; yet it is our duty to say that our two physicists 
established, by decisive experiments, that the light of clouds is not polarized ^ 
that the bed of clouds which they traversed was at least 3,000 meters in thick- 
ness, and that, notwithstanding the existence of this curtain between the earth 
and sky, the decrease of temperature was very nearly the same with that 
verified by Gay Lussac in his celebrated voyage performed in a perfectly 
cloudless sky. From the barometrical observations compared with those made 
at the Observatory of Paris, it is deducible that, in the region where the 
balloon was torn, the height attained was 5,900 meters, and from a similar 
computation that the upper surface of the cloud passed through was at the 
height of 4,200 meters. 

The following numbers complete the details which I laid before the Academy: 
At the moment of departure the barometer of the Observatory, reduced to zero, 
marked 753 millimeters, and the exterior thermometer 30°.3 ; the direction of 
the wind was west-southwest, and the sky was completely covered. At 10 hours 
29 minutes the voyagers penetrated into a cloud having the appearance of a 
dense mist, which deprived them of the sight of the earth. At 10 hours 47 
mmutes the barometer of the car, reduced to zero, marked 458.3 millimeters, and 



340 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

the thermometer +7°; at the same instant the barometer of the Observatory- 
indicated a pressure of 753.17 millimeters, and the thermometer + 19°.4. These 
numbers give, by calculation, the height of 4',242 metres above the mean level 
of the sea, and correspond with the moment at which the balloon emerged from 
the upper part of the clouds. The bed of clouds now below the observers pre- 
sented the appearance of mamillary swellings, silver white in color, the light 
from which, examined with the polariscopic telescope, yielded no trace of polari- 
zation. Except a few clouds, which here and there rose high above the balloon, 
the sky was of a pale and .dull blue. At 10 hours 59 minutes the barometer of 
the car indicated 373.4 millimeters, and the thermometer had sunk below zero. 
M. Barral was unable to make out the exact thermometric degree on account of 
a layer of hoar-frost deposited on the instrument, which he could not remove. 
The barometer was at this time in a state of oscillation, the mean height of its 
changes being represented by the number just mentioned. The balloon, which, 
notwithstanding the precise directions given, had been so constructed as not 
to leave sufficient room for the development incident to the natural dilatation 
of the hydrogen,* had now sunk down upon the excursionists ; the valve pro- 
vided for the escape of the gas was closed ; a rent had taken place in the upper 
part of the balloon, and MM, Barral and Bixio fell to the earth after having 
traversed 5,800 meters in from four to five minutes. 

They immediately commenced preparations for a new ascent, which took 
place a month after that of which an account has been given. They rose, as 
before, from the garden of the Observatory ; and I was a witness of this, as I 
had been of their former ascension. I had taken part in all the deliberations 
which regarded the scientific purposes of the voyage. If the first one had been 
rendered, by imfavorable circumstances, almost entirely barren of results, beyond 
giving proof of the intrepidity of the two distinguished explorers, and initiating 
them in the dangers of an ascent through an atmosphere agitated by winds and 
turbid with thick clouds, it would be sufficient to read the journal of the second 
voyage to comprehend how fertile it was both in novelty and interest. The 
Academy of Sciences having judged it desirable that such a statement should 
be prepared as would enable those least familiar with these matters to appre- 
ciate the importance of the contribution made by MM. Barral and Bixio to 
meteorology, I yielded to the wishes of that learned body, and shall here 
reproduce, in nearly identical terms, the account of the voyage which I then 
submitted : 

" The two scientific explorers having properly resolved to renew their enter- 
prise under more favorable circumstances, and being no longer under a neces- 
sity of evincing their courage or punctuality, could afford to await patiently 
the day arid the moment. M. Regnault took charge, with JM. Barral, of the 
preparations, which is equivalent to saying that the utmost ingenuity and 
exactness presided over the construction and disposal of the instruments. No 
one, hoAvever, but an eye-witness, can appreciate the indefatigable zeal and 
devotedness Avhich my distinguished colleague exerted day and night in this 
behalf. 

" Everything was ready on Friday, July 26, 1850, but the weather was 
adverse. Saturday morning, the atmosphere having cleared up, the filling of 
the balloon was begun. The operation was tedious, and by the time it was 
finished, towards one or two o'clock, the sky was overclouded, and a deluge 
of rain Avas falling. The rain finally ceased, but the sky remained entirely 
overcast; it would have been only natural, under these circumstances, to 

*■ The difficulty of mana!^m<T tho balloon before its ascent Avas the reason why the length 
of the cords attachinfi^ tlio car aves reduced. The Avind was so violent that 120 soldiers could 
scarcely keep tho balloon from being carried away. 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 341 

renounce the proposed ascension. I made, in tte presence of the two aeronauts, 
the observation that it might be very useful to know the decrease of the atmos- 
pheric temperature with the height when a continuous screen of clouds shuts 
from us the view of the sky.* Now it sometimes happens that the sky 
becomes clear of a sudden ; in this case there must remain iu the atmosphere 
traces more or less marked of the abnormal deci;ease of temperature of which 
the presence of the cloud had been the cause. The observations made iu 
aerostatic ascensions, performed during clear weather, are not completely 
applicable to this special case. Besides, there are numerous occasions when 
we observe through openings in the clouds. When MM. Barral and Bixio 
arrived at the conclusion, from these considerations and others which it Vi'ould 
be superfluous to mention, that their voyage might prove useful, they placed 
themselves in the car and launched into the air. 

" All the details of this ascension are scrupulously given iu the journal 
written at the time by the aeronauts, and the calculations were compared by 
M. Regnault with the indications of the sealed instruments carried in the expe- 
dition. I shall only advert here to the fact that at their greatest elevation our 
explorers experienced no uneashiess or embarrassment in their respiration ; and 
that M. Bixio, who had suffered iu his first voyage from acute pain in the ears, 
guarded against that annoyance by simply counterfeiting from time to time 
the act of deglutition, by Avhich the air within and without the organ was 
maintained in a state of equal pressure. It may be added, that they encoun- 
tered a mass of cloud of more than 5,000 meters iu thickness, that they did not 
succeed in rising entirely above it, but at the height of about 7,000 meters 
(22,960 feet) were forced to commence an involuntary descent, the effect of a 
rent in the lower part of the ballocn. They might, perhaps, by throwing out 
the last of their ballast, have prolonged their stay at the height which they 
bad readied, but circumstances no longer permitting them to gather useful indi- 
cations for science, they thought best not to struggle against the downward 
tendency of the apparatus. * 

" Let us speak novv^ of the observations which they had an opportunity of 
making. When they had attained their highest station in the immense bed of 
cloud, an opening took place in the vaporous mass Avhich surrounded them, 
through which the blue sky was apparent. The polariscope, directed towards 
this region, showed an intense polarization ; on the contrary, there was none at 
all, when the instrument was pointed aside beyond the opening. This should 
not be regarded as a repetition of the experiment made in the first voyage, for 
then they observed the light reflected by the clouds, while now it was in the 
tran,smitted light that they verified the absence of all polarization. 

"An interesting optical phenomenon was exhibited during this ascension. 
Before attaining the highest limit, the bed of cloud which enveloped the bal- 
loon, having diminished in thickness or become less dense, the sun appeared 
weak and quite white ; at the same time there appeared, below the horizontal 
plane of the car, at an angular distance from that plane equal to the angle 
formed by the sun's height, a second sun similar to one which might have been 
reflected from a sheet of water situated at that elevation. It is natural to sup- 
pose, with our aeronauts, that the second sun was formed by the reflection of 
the luminous rays on the horizontal faces of crystals of ice floating in that 
vaporous atmosphere. 

" We now come to the most striking and wholly unexpected result furnished 
by the thermometrical observations. Gay Lussac, in his ascension in clear or 
rather slightly vaporous weather, had found a temperature of 9°. 5 below zero 

* The refractions at moderate heights depend on the law according to which this decrease 
is effected. 



342 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

at the height' of 7,016 meters. Thia was the minimum he observed. MM. 
Barral and liixio encountered this same temperature in the cloud at the height 
of about 6,000 meters; but from this point, through an extent of some 600 
meters, the temperature varied in a manner the most extraordinary, and beyond 
all anticipation. Lest the number which results from the observations should 
strike the reader with a feeling of incredulity, it is proper to say that proof 
of its exactness will be promptly submitted. At the height of 7,049 meters, 
at some distance from the upper limit of the cloud, MM. Barral and Bixio 
saw the centigrade thermometer descend to 39 degrees below zero. It is 30 
degrees lower than the number observed by Gay Lussac at about the same 
height, but when the weather was clear. 

" I hasten to prove that this surprising result is affected by no error of observa- 
tion. The barometer for determining the height was of course furnished with 
a thermometer intended to give the temperature of the mercury. This ther- 
mometer had been graduated to 37 degrees below zero. It was thought that 
these 37 degrees ought to suffice for the greatest heights to which it was sup- 
posed explorers could ascend. But the mercury had descended below this 37th 
degree, though it had not shrunk entirely within the reservoir. By an estimate 
which could hardly be inexact when made by such a physicist as M. Regnault, 
the mercury had descended 2 degrees below 37. The thermometer of the ba- 
rometer marked, therefore, 39 degrees. 

" M. Walferdin has invented very ingenious self-registering thermometers, 
which give the maxima and minima of temperature to which they have been 
exposed. The one for maxima is frequently used; it is desirable that the 
second, which is less known, should be generally adopted by physicists. It 
is capable of being of great service to meJ;eorolgy. The inventor had sent 
one of his thermometers d minima with arbitrary divisions to our aeronauts, 
and this was enclosed in a case with numerous holes to permit the circula- 
tion of air. At the request of the two aeronauts, a seal was applied, and this 
seal, which arrived untouched, was broken,/^ the College of France in the 
presence of lilM. Regnault and Walferdin. Careful examination proved that 
the minimum thermometer had sunk to — 39°. 7. After these precise obser- 
vations it is scarcely necessary to say that the proof of an extraordinary depres- 
sion of temperature is to be found in the impossibility which the aeronauts 
experienced of reading the indications of several thermometers, the fluid of 
which had sunk as low as the stopper of cork which supported them. Every 
attempt to remove this obstruction was frustrated by the stiffening of the liugers 
with cold. This nearly instantaneous depression of the temperature in the 
cloudy mass is a discovery which interests meteorology in the highest degree. 
What IS the special constitution of a cloud which qualiiies it, whether by radia- 
tion into space or from whatever other cause, to exhibit so prodigious a refrige- 
ration ? It is a question Avhich at this moment we can do no more than pro- 
pound. Can this abnormal constitution play a part in the formation of hail ? 
Is it, perchance, the cause of the considerable changes of temperature which 
are suddenly experienced at a given place 1 The solution of these questions 
is reserved for the future, which does not, however, at all diminish the import- 
ance of the observation. 

" In the journal of the voyage the temperatures observed were rendered by 
thermometers having an arbitrary graduation ; the aeronauts did not know what 
the numbers signified which they read and registered; the real temperatures 
were afterwards determined by M. Regnault, and the heights calculated by M. 
Mathieu. We may thus rely Avith perfect confidence on the results. From 
these we deduce that the height attained was 7,049 meters, taking into account 
the diminution of weight at those great elevations and the influence of the hour 
of the day on the barometric measurement of heights; this is 33 meters higher 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 343 

than Gay Lussac had ascended. It is proper to observe that the formulas used 
In calculating heights proceed upon the hypothesis of a nearly vmiform decrease 
of temperature, and that, in this instance, a change of elevation which may be 
estimated at 600 meters, was attended by a variation of temperature of about 
30 degrees, Avhile, in an unclouded atmosphere, the variation would have been 
but from 4 to 5 degrees. 

" The important discovery made in this aeronautic voyage shows what science 
may expect from like expeditions when they shall be confided, as at that time, 
to intrepid, careful, exact, and candid observers." 

The following is an extract from the journal kept by the two accomplished 
physicists during the voyage : 

"The graduated instruments which we carried with us had been constructed 
by M. Fastre, under the direction of M. Regnault. The tables of graduation 
had been prepared in the laboratory of the College of France, and were known 
only to the last mentioned-savant. 

" The balloon is the same which served for our first ascension ; it is formed 
of two hemispheres of a radius of 4.8 millimeter, separated by a cylinder 3.8 
millimeter in height, having for its base a great circle of the sphere. The total 
volume of the balloon is 729 cubic meters. A lower orifice, intended to give 
issue to the gas during its dilatation, is terminated by a cylindrical appendage of 
silk, 7 meters long, which is left open to permit the free escape of the gas dur- 
ing the period of ascent. The car is suspended at about 4 meters below the 
orifice of the appendage, so that the balloon may float at the distance of 11 
meters from the car, and in no respect iuterfere with the observations. The 
instruments are fixed around a large cast-iron ring which is attached to the 
usual wooden circle for securing the cords of the car, and is of such a form 
that the instruments may be within convenient distance of the observers. 

"It was our intention to set out at about 10 o'clock a. m., and measures had 
been taken for commencing the inflation of the balloon, an operation with which 
MM. Veron and Fontaine were charged, at 6 o'clock. Unfortunately, circum- 
stances beyond our control, and arising from the necessity of thoroughly wash- 
ing the gas in order to guard against its action upon the tissue of the balloon, 
occasioned delay, and it was 1 o'clock before the arrangements were completed. 
The sky, which had been quite clear tdl noon, became covered with clouds, 
and soon a deluge of rain was falling upon Paris. This continued until 3 o'clock. 
The day was then too far advanced, and the condition of the atmosphere too 
unfavorable, for us to hope that we could carry out the programme wc had pro- 
posed. But the aerostat was ready, great expense had been incurred, and it 
was possible that observations in this troubled state of the atmosphere might 
lead to useful results. We decided, therefore, to ascend. Our departure took 
place at 4 o'clock. Some difficulty was occasipned by the narrowness of the 
space which the garden of the observatory aftorded for the evolution of ascent. 
The balloon, as has been seen, was at a considerable distance from the car, and, 
swept forward by the wind, got the start of the frail skiff in which we were 
embarked, so that it was only through a series of oscillations, sufficiently 
divergent on either side from a vertical line, that we attained a state of tranquil 
suspension from the aerostat. We came in contact with trees and a pole, by 
which one of the barometers and the thermometer with a blackened surface 
were broken, and these were left behind. We shall here transcribe the notes 
taken during our ascension. 

" 4^' 3*". Departure. — The balloon ascends at first slowly, taking a direction 
towards the east. The movement of ascension becomes more rapid after the 
discharge of some kilograms of ballast. The sky is completely covered with 
clouds, and we presently find ourselves in a light mist. 



344 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 



Hours. 


Barometer. 


Thermometer. 

1. 


Height. 


4h (Jin OB 


Millimeters. 
694. 70* 
674. 96 
6r)5. 57 
636. 68 


+16° 


Meters. 
757 


43 


999 


4 9 30 


-fin. 

+ 9.8 


1,244 


4 11 


1,483 







"Above us there extends an uniuterrupted bed of elouds ; below we perceive 
here and there detached clouds which appear to float over Paris. The wind is 

frc-^li. 



Hours. 


Barometer. 


Thermometer. 


Height. 


4hl3m 


597. 73 

558. 70 
482, 20 


+93,0 


2,013 


4 15 


2, 567 


4 20 


—0 .5 


3, 751 







" The cloud which we enter presents the appearance of an ordinary dense 
fogr. The earth is no longer discernible. 



Bai'ometer. 


Thermometer. 


Height. 


405. 41 


—70. 


5, 121 meters. 



"A few solar rays become perceptible through the clouds. 

"The barometer oscillates from 366.99 millimeters to 386.42 millimeters ; the 
thermometer marks — 9°.0; calculation gives from 5,911 to 5,492 as the height 
reached at this point of time. 

" The balloon is entirely inflated. The appendage, compressed till now by 
the external atmosphere, is at present distended, and the gas escapes by its 
lower orifice under the form of a whitish trail ; we perceive its odor very dis- 
tinctly. We discover in the balloon, at the distance of about 1.5 millimeter from 
the insertion of the appendage, a rent, which afibrds issue to a greater amount of 
gas, without diminishing, howevei-, in any important degree, the ascensional 
force of the aerostat. 

"An opening in the cloud enables tis vaguely to perceive the position of the 
Bun, 

" The balloon resumes its ascendant movement after a new discharge of 
ballast. 

" 4'^ 25^. — Oscillations of the barometer between 347.75 millimeters and 
367.04 millimeters indicate a new station of the balloon ; the thermometer varies 



* All (he barometric heif^hts taken have been reduced to the temperature of 0° by calcula- 
tion. By means of the barometric and thermometric observations, made at the observatory 
and in the car, the heicfhts of nineteen stations above the observatory and above the sea ^vere 
calculated, increasing them by 65 meters. But the three heights, 6,512, 7,049, and 6,765 
meters, where the temperature had sunk to — 35°, — 36'^, and — 39'^, were obtained by cal- 
culating, not from the observatory, but from the intermediate station of 5,902 meters, where 
the temperature was — 9'^.8, and the pressure 367.04 millimeters. There results 7,004 for the 
highest station. But it is still necessary to add a correction of 12 meters, due to the height (5,902 
meters) of the inferior station of comparison, and 33 meters on account of the influence of the 
hour of .the day, as was justly remarked by M. Bravais, which makes in all 7,049 meters. 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 345 

from — 10°.5 to — 9°.8; tlie height we have reached varies from 6,330 to 6,902 
meters. 

" The fog, much less dense, permits our seeing a white and feehlc image of 
the sun. 

"A renewed discharge of ballast occasions a new ascension of the balloon, 
which attains a new stationary position, indicated by renewed oscillations of the 
barometer. We are covered with small particles of ice, in the shape of ex- 
tremely fine needles, whioh accumulate in the folds of our clothing. AVlrile the 
barometric oscillation is descending, and the movement of the balloon is conse- 
quently ascensional, these particles fall upon our open, note-book in such quan- 
tity as to produce a sort of crepitation. Nothing similar is observed while the 
barometer is rising and the balloon, of course, descending. 

"The horizontal glass thermometer indicates —4°.69; the silver-plated ther- 
mometer — 8 ".95. 

"We distinctly see the disc of the sun through the frozen mist; but at the 
same time, in the same vertical plane, we perceive a second image of the sun, 
almost as intense as the former. The two images appear symmetrically dis- 
posed above and below the horizontal plane of the car, each 'making with this 
plane an angle of about thirty degrees. This phenomenon is apparent for more 
than ten minutes. 

" The temperature lowers rapidly. We prepare to make a complete series 
of observations on the thermometers of radiation and those of the psychrometer, 
but the mercurial columns are liidden by the stoppers, inasmuch as no such 
rapid fall in the temperature had been anticipated. The thermometer with con- 
centric envelopes of tin gives — 23^.79. 

" We open a cage iu which two pigeons are confined, but they refuse to 
©scape. We cast them off" into space, when, spreading their wings and wheel- 
ing in large circles, they sink downwards and are soon lost to sight in the mist 
wdiich surrounds us. We cannot perceive the anchor which is suspended below, 
at the end of a cord 50 meters long. 

" 4^' 32™. — We discharge ballast and rise still higher. The clouds separate 
above, and we see in- the sky a space of bright azure blue, similar to that seen 
on earth in clear weather. The polariscope indicates no polarization, in any 
direction, on the clouds immediately around or remote from us. The blue of 
the sky, on the contrary, is strongly polarized. 

" The oscillations of the barometer indicating that we have ceased to ascend, 
we throw out ballast, and obtain a new ascensional movement. 



Hours. 


Barometer. Thermometer. 


Height. 


4h 45m 


• 
Millimeters. 

33S. 05 —350 


Meters. 

G,512 







" Our fingers are stiffened with cold, but we experience no pain in the ears. 

nor is respiration at all embarrassed. The sky is covered anew with clouds, 
but the sun, though veiled, is still seen, as well as its image. We think it would 
be interesting to find if the cold Avill still increase on ascending yet higher. We 
throw out ballast, which determines a further ascension. 

" 4^' 50'". — The barometer marks 315.02 millimeters. The extremity of the 
column of the thermometer of the barometer is lower by about two degrees than 
the last division marked on the instrument. This division is —.37^ ; the tem- 
perature, therefore, Avas about— 39°; the height, consequently, which we had 
attained is 7,039 meters. 

"The barometer oscillates from 315.02 millimeters to 326.20; hence the bal- 
loon oscillates from 7,039 to 6,798 meters. There are only four kilograms of 



346 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 



ballast remaining, whicli we judge it prudent to keep for the descent. Besides, 
it is useless to try to mount higher Avith instruments \A'hich have become mute; the 
mercury is congealed. We could, at most, only strive to maintain ourselves for 
gome time at the same height, but, although the appendage is raised to prevent 
the escape of gas by its orilicc, the balloon begins to descend. We proceed to 
secure portions of the air, and, though the tube of one of the receptacles is 
broken in attempting to turn the stop-cock, the other is filled without accident. 
But the cold paralyzes all our efforts; observations Jiave become impossible; 
our fingers are disqualified for every operation. We resign ourselves to a 
descent. 



** We still encounter the little needles of ice 



Hours. 


Barometer. 


Temperature. 


Height. 


gh Om 


Millimeters. 
43G. 40 


—90 


Meters. 
4,502 







Hours. 



5h 7m 
5 10 
5 12 
5 14 



Barometer. Temperature. 



Millimeters. 
483.16 
540. 39 
559. 70 

582. 90 



Height. 



Meters. 
3, 688 
2, 796 
2, 452 
2, 185 



" The thermometer with a glass surface marks +2°. 50 ; that with a silvered 
surface +1°.91. 

a Qh iQm — rpj^g barometer oscillates from 598. 5 millimeters to 618.0 millime- 
ters, because we throw over our ballast, and this arrests our descent ; the tem- 
perature is l'-\8; the height varies from 1,973 to 1,707 meters. 

" The oscillations are prolonged by the discharge of the last portions of our 
ballast. We are now only occupied with moderating the descent by sacrificing 
all that we have at our disposal, except the instruments, and we place the 
thermometers in their cases. 

" 5^ 30™. — We touch the earth at the hamlet of Peux, a commune of Saint 
Denis les llebris, arrondissement of Coulommiers, (Seine et Marne,) at some 
paces from the residence of M. Brulfert, mayor of the commune, 70 kilometers 
distant from Paris. 

" We had the good fortune to break no instrument in our descent. The 
village afforded but a single vehicle to carry us to the Strasbourg railroad, 18 
kilouicters distant, and the transfer was rendered troublesome by a violent storm 
of wind and rain ; the horse fell, breaking two of the instruments, which we 
greatly desired to carry safe to Paris, namely, the balloon for air, and the instru- 
ment indicating the minimum of barometric pressure. Fortunately the minimum 
thermometer of M. Walferdin, with his seal, was conyeyed intact to the College 
of France. Here the seal was removed by MM. Hegnault and Walferdin, and 
the minimum of temperature determined, by direct experiment, was found to be 
— 39^.G7, consequently very little difierent from the lowest temperature observed 
by ourselves on the thermometer of the barometer." 

In rendering my report to the Academy of Sciences, I remarked that the fact 
of the presence of a cloud composed of small particles of ice having a temper- 
ature of about —40° in mid-summer, at a height of from 6,000 to 7,000 meters 
above the surface of Europe, is the gi'catest discovery which meteorology has 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 347 

for a long time i-ecorded. This discovery explains how these icy particles may 
become the nucleus of hailstones of considerable volume, for we readily com- 
prehend how they may condense around them and solidify the aqueous vapors 
contained in the atmospheric strata in which they float ; it likewise demonstrates 
the truth of the hypothesis of Mariotte, who attributed the existence of halos, 
parhelia, and paraselenes, to crystals of ice suspended in the air. In fine, the 
presence of a widely-extended cloud of great coldness very well accounts for the 
sudden changes of temperature which so often and unexpectedly affect our 
climates. MM. Barral and Bixio, in discussing the meteorological observations 
made in Europe at the time, including the day preceding and the day following 
their memorable ascension, were enabled to establish the occurrence of sudden 
and general accessions of cold, which bore undoubtedly a direct relation to the 
arrival of the intensely frigorific masses of vapor which were then propagating 
themselves from the northeast to the southwest. 

VI. — VOYAGES OF JOHN WELSH. 

In July, 1852, the committee of directors of the observatory of Kew, near 
London, resolved on the execution of a series of aeronautic ascensions with a 
view to the investigation of the meteorological and physical phenomena which 
develop themselves in the most elevated regions of tlie terrestrial atmosphere. 
This resolution was approved by the council of the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science. Instruments were immediately prepared, consisting 
of a barometer of Gay Lussac, dry and wet thermometers, an aspirator, a con- 
densing hygrometer of Regnault, a hygrometer of Daniell, a polariscope and 
glass tubes to collect the air. The balloon made use of was that of M. Green, 
who constantly accompanied M. John Welsh, to whom the observations were 
intrusted ; illuminating gas was employed for inflation. Four ascensions took 
place, August 17 and 26, October 21, November 10, 1852. In the first two 
voyages M. Nicklin also accompanied M. Welsh. The place of departure was 
the garden of Vauxhall. 

In the first ascension, August 17, the expeditionists set forth at 49 minutes 
after three in the evening, and again touched the earth at 20 minutes after five, 
23 leagues north of London. They reached the height of 5,947 meters. The 
lowest pressure they obtained was 364.5 millimeters, and the minimum tem- 
perature —13°.2. On the earth the barometer indicated 755.1 millimeters, and 
the thermometer -|-21°.8. A cloud covered the horizon, its inferior limit was 
reached at about 762 meters, and its superior limit at 3,963 meters. The bal- 
loon then penetrated into pure air, but at a great distance above there spread a 
dense cloudy mass. Snow, consisting of star-shaped flakes, fell from time to 
time on the balloon. 

The second ascension, August 26, commenced at 4 hours 43 minutes in the 
evening, and terminated at 7 hours 35 minutes; the descent took place 10 
leagues W.N W. of London. The balloon rose to a height of 6,096 meters, and 
the lowest temperature observed was —10^.3. On the earth the pressure was 
760.9 millimeters, and the temperature 4-19.1. A few clouds were suspended 
in the atmosphere at a height of about 900 meters ; above, the sky was clear 
and of a bright blue. 

The third ascension took place October 21, at 2 hours 45 minutes; the voy- 
ao-ers descended at 4 hours 20 minutes, about 12 leagues to the east of London. 
They ascended only to a height of 3,853 meters ; the least pressure observed 
was 475.5 millimeters, the lowest temperature —3°. 8. On the earth the ba- 
rometer marked 759.2 millimeters, the thermometer + 14=.2. Between 254 and 
853 meters, the balloon encountered detached and irregular clouds ; at about 
915 meters it entered a continuous bed of cloud, whose upper surface terminated 
at 1,093 meters. On its emergence from the cloud the balloon projected on its 
nearly level expanse a shadow surrounded with fringes. The light, directly 



348 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 



reflected by the cloivd, examiued with the polariscope, presented no trace of 
polarization. 

The greatest height at which M. Welsh arrived was attained in his fourth 
voyage, performed the 10th of November. The ascent took place at 2 hours 
21 minutes, and the descent, near Folkstone, 23 leagues E.SE. of London, at 
3 hours 45 minutes. The height reached was 6,989 meters ; minimum tem- 
perature observed — 23^.6; minimum pressure 310.9 millimeters. On the earth 
the barometer indicated 761.1 millimeters, and the thermometer +9°. 6. A 
first cloud Avas encountered at 254 meters, Avhose upper surface reached a height 
of 600 meters. There occurred next a space of 620 meters, free from all sensible 
vapor ; but, at a height of 1,220 meters, a new cloud was met with, which ter- 
minated at 4,494 meters. Beyond this there were only a few cirri at a very 
great height. 

"We see that the English aeronauts only once approached, though without 
attaining, the height of 7,000 meters, reached by Gay Lussac, and by Barral 
and Bixio. The very low temperature of — 23°. 6, observed by Welsh in his 
last ascension, would certainly have appeared extraordinary if our countrymen, 
in their expedition of July 27, 1850, had not encountered a cloud having a 
much lower temperature. The air collected by Mr. Welsh was analyzed by 
M. Miller, who found its composition the same with that of normal air. The 
hygrometrical observations which Mr. Welsh made with care, and in great num- 
ber, by help of the psychrometer and hygrometer of M. Ecgnault, did not indi- 
cate any considerable dryness. On the contrary, even in the highest regions, 
the relative atmospheric humidity approached saturation. 



VII. 



-THE GREATEST HEIGHTS REACHED, AND THE TEMPERATURES OBSERVED, 
IN THE UPPER REGIONS OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 



It is worthy of remark that, to the present time, man has not ascended into the 
eitmosphere as high as the aerial stratum which surrounds the loftiest mountain 
summits of tlie Old and New World. Kintschindinga and Aconcagua, the former 
8,592, the latter 7,291 meters high. In the ascent of mountains, barely 6,000 
meters may be assigned as the height to which human effort has attained. In 
June, 1802, my illustrious friend, Alexander Humboldt, accomj)anied by M. 
Bonpland, ascended Chimborazo to the altitude of 5,878 meters. In December, 
1831, another of my friends, M. Boussiugault, accompanied b5^ Colonel Hall, 
climbed the same mountain to the height of 6,004 meters above the level of the 
sea. If we add to these two celebrated excursions the aeronautic voyages of 
Lhoest and Robertson, July 18, 1803; of Gay Lussac, September 16, 1804; 
of MM. Barral and Bixio, July 27, 1850; of M. Welsh, August 26 and No- 
vember 10, 1852, we' have the sum of all the enterprises in which man has 
succeeded in maintaining his position for a few instants in the strata of air 
situated from 6,000 to 7,000 meters above the mean level of the seas. The 
following table recapitulates the thermometric and barometric observations 
made under these rare circumstances : 



Names. 



Humboldt and Bonpland 

Lhoest and Robertsou 

Gay Lussac 

Boussingault and Colonel Hall 

Banal and Bixio 

Welsh 

Welsh 



Dates. 



June 24, 1802 
July 18,1803 
Sept. J(j, 1804 
Dec. 16, 1831 
July 27,1800. 
Aug. 26, 18.72 
Nov. 10,1852 



Greatest 
heights 
attained. 



Lowest barometric 

pressures oliserved. 

(Reduced to 0^) 



Meters. 
5, 878 
6,831 
7,016 
6, 004 
7,049 
C,096 
6, 989 



Millimeters. 
376.7 
336. 
323.8 
371.1 
315. 
371.1 
310.9 



Lowest 

temperatures 

observed. 



Degrees. 

— 1.6 

— 6.9 

— 9.5 

-1-7.8 
—39.7 
—10.3 
—23.6 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 349 

These figures certainly demonstrate that, in high atmospheric regions, the ther- 
mometnc variations are not less considerable than on the surface ot' the earth, and 
that, in any case, if there be a stratum of constant temperature in the terrestrial 
atmosphere, the fact of its existence is only admissible as regards an elevation 
probably much greater than any yet reached. Is it practicable to transcend 
this limitary height of 7,000 meters, by which all ascensions hitherto undertaken 
have been bounded ? There is but one consideration which can make us hesi- 
tate to answer affirmatively. We know not if man's physical constitution could 
adapt Itself to a pressure much lighter than that of 311 mUlimeters, about two- 
fifths of the mean pressure observed on the sea-shore. 



AN ACCOUNT OF BALLOON ASCENSIONS. 



BY MR. JAMES GLAISHER. 



• IFrom the London Athcnmim, October, 1864.] 

The committee on balloon experiments was appointed last year for the fol- 
lowing purposes : To examine the electrical condition of the air at diiferent 
heights ; to verify the law of the decrease of temperature ; and to compare the 
constants in different states of the atmosphere. With respect ' to the first of 
these objects no progress had been made, with the exception of preparing an in- 
strument and apparatus for the investigation. At the request of the committee Mr. 
Fleming Jenkin undertook the construction of the best instrument for the purpose, 
and one was finished towards the end of 1SG3, but it was constructed to be used 
"with fire. It has since had to be adapted for water, a constant flow of which is neces- 
sary in electrical experiments in balloons. This apparatus Mr. Glaisher was re- 
quested by the committee not to use, as they felt that these instruments, if exert- 
ing no influence while the balloon was rising, might, when it was falling, throAV 
considerable doubt on the experiments relating to humidity. With respect to the 
second of these objects, the verifying the law of the decrease of temperature in 
different states of the atmosphere, the committee considered would be best at- 
tained by taking as many observations as possible at times in the year, and at 
tipies in the day, at which no experiments had been made, for the purpose of 
determining whether the laws which hold good at noon apply equally well at 
all other times of the day. The committee have always pressed the importance 
of magnetic observations in the higher regions of the air — the Astronomer lioyal 
suggesting the use of a horizontal magnet, and taking the times of its vibration 
at different elevations, a method which is seldom practicable, owing to the al- 
most constant revolution of the balloon. To obviate this. Dr. Lloyd suggested 
the use of a dipping-needle, placed horizontally when on the ground, by means 
of a magnet above it, so that, w^hen in the balloon, the deviation from horizon- 
tality might be noticed, and which deviation would be independent of rotary 
motion of the balloon. The latter method has not yet been tried. Dr. Lloyd 
wishing some experiments to be made before the instrument was constructed. 
At Newcastle a very general wish being expressed that very high ascents 
should not again be attempted, none above five miles had since been made. Mr. 
Glaisher then gave an account of the ascents made by him during the past year. 
The first was from Newcastle, on the 31st of August. The balloon left the earth 
at 6h. 11m. p. m., with a north wind, 'and descended. at five minutes past 7, at 
Pittington, near Durham. The decrease of temperature within the first SQO 



350 AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 

feet of the earth in this ascent was very remarkable, no such rapid decrease 
having been found in any other ascents. On the ground the temperature was 
64^, and by the time 200 feet had been attained, a decrease of 8 degrees had 
taken place, the temperature being 56°. From this height to 1,200 feet there 
was but little change, and above this the temperature decreased from 2° to 3 J° in 
each succeeding 1,000 feet up to 7,000 feet, when the balloon entered a relatively 
warmer current of air. The second ascent, on the 29th of September, 1863, was 
from Wolverhampton. The gas on this occasion had been prepared in July 
expressly for a high ascent intended to have taken place before the Newcastle 
meeting, but circumstances prevented this being made, and the gas was oblig- 
ingly stored in the gasometer by the directors of the gas-works. The balloon 
left at 7h. 43m. a. m., wind S W. At 8,200 feet there were two layers of clouds 
below the balloon and very dense clouds above. When at 11,000 feet the clouds 
were still a mile higher; there was a sea of blue-tinged cloud below, and peeps 
of the earth was seen through the breaks. At 13,000 feet high clouds were 
still above; but after this they began to dissipate, and at 9h. 38m., at 14,000 
feet, the sun shone brightly. Ten minutes afterwards the travellers discovered 
the Wash at a distance of only ten miles, and were compelled to descend. A 
southwest gale was blowing, and so strong was the wind that on the grapnels 
taking the ground near Sleaford, at lOh. 30m., the balloon was rent from top to 
bottom. In this ascent warm currents Avere met with at 8,000 and 13,500 feet. 
In the descent a warm current was passed through, extending from 14,000 to 
9,000 feet. Temperature at the ground on leavhig 48^ ; at time of descent 53°. 
On passing out of the mist at 3,000 feet the humidity declined to 58° at 8,000 
feet. Here there Avere dense clouds above and below. At 9,000 feet the hu- 
midity was 71°, and then the air became suddenly dry. The third ascent was 
made from the Crystal Palace, at 4h. 29m. p. m., on the 9th of October. In sev- 
enteen minutes it was 7,300 feet high, and directly over London Bridge, and all 
the vast number of buildings, comprising the whole of London, could be clearly 
seen. There were neither warm nor cold currents met with on this day. The 
secretary of state for war having granted permission to the committee to avail them- 
selves of the facilities afforded in the Iloyal Arsenal, at Woolwich, the ascent of the 
12lh of January was made from thence. It was intended to have been made on the 
21st of December previous, and from time to time the balloon had been partially in- 
flated. It left at 2h. 7m. p. m., and in 14 minutes had crossed the Tilbury rail- 
way, and was over Hainault forest. At 3h. 31m. the height of 12,000 feet was 
attained, when the balloon began to descend, and touched theground at 4h. 10m. 
at Lakenheath. On the earth the wind was SE. At 1,300 feet a strong SW. 
current was entered, in which the balloon continued up to 4,000 feet, when the 
wind changed to S. At 8,000 feet the wind changed to S.SW., and afterwards 
to S.SE. At 11,000 feet fine granular snow was met with, and the balloon 
passed through snow on descending till within 8,000 feet of the earth. Clouds 
were entered at 7,000 feet, Avhich merged at about 6,000 feet into mist. This 
ascent is the only one ever made in January for scientific purposes. The fifth 
ascent was designed to have been made as near the 21st of March as possible, 
but through adverse weather was deferred to the 6th of April. The balloon 
left Woolwich at 4h. 7m. p. m., with a SE. wind, ascending evenly at the rate 
of 1,000 feet in about three minutes, till 11,000 feet was attained at 4h. 37m. 
It descended into Wilderness Park, near Sevenoaks, in Kent. Its course was 
most remarkable, having passed over the Thames into Essex. The balloon, un- 
known to the aeronauts, must have I'epassed the river and moved in a directly 
opposite direction, and so continued till it approached. the earth, when it again 
moved in the same direction as at first. The ascent is remarkable for the small 
decrease in temperature with increase of elevation. The air, at the period of 
starting, Avas 45^°, and did not decline at all till after reaching 300 feet, after 
which it decreased gradually to 33° at 4,300. A warm current was then en- 



AERONAUTIC VOYAGES. 351 

tered, and the temperature increased till 7,500 feet was attained, when 40° 
were attained, being the same as had been experienced at 1,500 feet. It 
then decreased to 34° at 8,800 feet, and then increased slowly to 37° at 
11,000 feet, a temperature which had been experienced at the heights of 8,500, 
6,500, and 3,000 feet in ascending. After the great injury to the balloon on the 
29th of September, in addition to the repairs it had previously undergone, Mr. 
Coxwell did not consider it, after the additional rough usage in the last two 
voyages, safe for extreme high ascents, and determined to build a new one, 
which he did, capable of containing 10,000 cubic feet more gas than the old one, 
so that, if need be, two observers could ascend together to the height of five 
miles. A new balloon, however, needs trying in low ascents until it proves 
gas-tight before it can be used for great elevations ; and, on June 13, it was 
therefore started on a small ascent from the Crystal Palace, at 7 o'clock — the 
sky cloudless, and the air perfectly clear, except in the direction of London. An 
elevation of 1,000 feet was reached in 1-^ minute, 3,000 feet at 7h. 8m., when 
the balloon descended to 2,300 feet, and then reasce'nded to 3,400, when, after 
a slight dip, it again ascended to 3,550 feet, the highest point by 7h. 28m., and 
then, after some oscillations, began its downward coin-se at 7h. 50m. from 2,800 
feet, reaching the ground at East Horndou, five miles from Brentwood, at 8h. 
14m. — the remarkable feature in this voyage being that, below 1,800 feet ele- 
vation, there was scarcely any change of temperature until the earth was reached. 
This fact of no change in the temperature of the air at the time of sunset was 
very remarkable, for it indicated that, if such be a law, the law of decrease of 
temperature with increase of elevation may be reversed at night for some dis- 
tance from the earth. June 20, the balloon left Derby at 17 minutes past 6 
p. m., and descended near Newark. June 27, the balloon ascended from the 
Crystal Palace at 6h. 33 Jm. — the sky cloudy, wind west. The descent was 
made on Romney Marsh, 5 miles from the shore. These several trial trips of 
the new balloon were made, and it was gradually becoming gas-tight, when its 
lamentable destruction at Leicester took place. The mayor of that town has 
recently presided over a meeting for the purpose of collecting subscriptions to 
assist Mr. Coxwell to rebuild a new balloon ; and we concur in Mr. Glai.shcr's 
wish that the town of Leicester and the Foresters' Society will soon remove the 
stigma resting upon them. Mr. Coxwell, since then, has had recourse to the 
old balloon, Avhich he had repaired as best he could, and the next and last as- 
cent of which Mr. Glaisher had to speak was made with it, on August 29, from 
the Crystal "Palace, at 4h. 6m. The difference between the temperatures of 
the air and those of the dew-point in this ascent was rather remarkable. The 
most important point in the past year's experiments are that, though the 
law of decrease of temperature under ordinary circumstances in the summer 
months is pretty well determined, we cannot say such a law holds good through- 
out the year; nor can we say that the laws which are in force during the day 
will be in force 'at night. In carrying out these experiments Mr. Glaisher said 
he had freely given up all his leisure, and that Mr. Coxwell had done the same 
in a most unselfish manner. Indeed, had it not been for the generous spirit in 
which Mr. Coxwell had entered into these experiments, they never could have 
been made, except at a multiple of the cost that had been incurred. 



352 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 



AN ACCOUNT 

OP 



THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS 



THE CALIFORNIA^ PENINSULA, 

AS GIVEN BY 

JACOB BAEGERT, A GERMAN JESUIT AIISSIONARY, WHO LIVED THERE SEVENTEEN 
YEARS DURING THE SECOND HALF OF THE LAST CENTURY. 



TRAKSLATED AKD ARRANGED I OR THE Sx^UTHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY CHARLES RAU, OF KEW YORK CITY. 



INTRODUCTION. 



When, in 1767, by a decree of Charles III, all members of the order of tbe 
Jesuits were banished from Spain and the transatlantic provinces subject to that 
realm, those Jesuits who superintended the missions established by the Spaniards 
since 1697 in Lov/er California were compelled to leave their Indian converts, and 
to transfer their spiritual authority to a number of friars of the Franciscan order. 
One of the banished Jesuits, a German, who had spent seventeen years in the 
Californian peninsula, published, after his return to his native country, a book 
which contains a description of that remote part of the American continent, and 
gives also quite a detailed account of its aboriginal inhabitants, with whom the 
author had become thoroughly acquainted during the many years devoted to 
their conversion to Christianity. This book, which is now vefy scarce in 
Germany, and, of course, still more so in this country, bears the title : Account 
of the American 'Peninsula of ' Calif ornia ; with a twofold Appendix of False 
Reports. Written hy a Priest of the Society of Jesus, loho lived there many 
years 2^ast. Puhlishcd with the Permission of my Superiors. Mannheim, 1773.* 

Modesty, or perhaps other motives, induced the author to remain anonymous, 
but with little success ; for his name, which was Jacob Baegcrt, is sometimes 
met with in old catalogues, in connexion with the title of his book. That his 
home was on the Upper Rhine he states himself in the text, but further par- 
ticulars relative to his private affairs, before or after his misrjionary labors in 
California, have not come to my knowledge. He does not even mention over 
which of the fifteen missions existing at his time on the peninsula he presided, 
but merely says that he had lived in California under the twenty-fifth degree, 
and twelve leagues distant from the Pacific coast, opposite the little bay of St. 
Mao-dalen. On the map accompanying his work there are two missionary sta- 
tions marked under that latitude — the mission of St. Aloysius and that of the 



* Nachrichtcn ron der Amerikanischeii Halbinsel Californien: mit einem zweyfaclien 
Anliang Falsclier Nachrichtcn. Gcschrieben von einem Priester der Gesellschalt Jesu, 
wolcher lang darinn diese letztere Jahr gelebet hat. Mit Erlaubnuss der Oberen. Mann- 
heim, ]77o. 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 353 

Seven Dolors, (Scptem Dolorum,) of whicli the first named evidently was his 
place of residence. 

The work iu question constitutes a small octavo volume of 358 pages, and is 
divided into three parts. The first division (of which I will give a &hort 
synopsis in this introduction) treats of the topography, physical geography, 
geology, and natural history of the peninsula; the second part gives an account 
of the inJiahitants, and the third embraces a short but interesting history of the 
missions iu Lower California. In the appendices to the work the author refutes 
certain exaggerated reports that had been published concerning the Californian 
peninsula, and he is particularly very severe upon Venegas' " Noticia de la 
California," (Madrid, 1757, 3 vols.,) a work which is also translated into tho 
English, French, and German languages. He accuses the Spanish author of 
having given by far too favorable, and, in many instances, utterly false 
accounts of the country, its pi-oductions and inhabitants, which is rather a 
noticeable circumstance, since Vc?irgas is considered as an authority in mutters 
relating to the ethnology of California. 

While reading the Avork of the German missionary, I was struck with tha 
amount of ethnological information contained in it, especially in the second 
part, which is cxclusivel}'- devoted to the aboriginal inhabitants, as stated 
before ; and upon conversing on the subject with sor.ie friends, members of the 
American Ethnological Society, they advised me to truuslate for publication if 
not the whole book, at least that part of it which relates to the native popula- 
tion, of which we know, comparatively, perhaps less than of any other portion 
of the indigenous race of North America. As there is a growing taste for tho 
study of ethnology manifested in this country, and, consequently, a tendency 
prevailing to collect all materials illustrating the former condition of tlic Ameri- 
can aborigines in different parts of the continent, I complied with the request 
of my friends, and devoted my hours of leisure to the preparation of this little 
work, supposing that the account of a man who lived among those Californians 
a century ago, when their original state had been but little changed by inter- 
course with Europeans, might be an acceptable addition to our stock of 
ethnological knowledge. 

I have" to state, however, that the following pages are not a translation in 
the strict sense of the word, but a reproduction of the Avork only as far as it 
refers to ethnological matters. The reasons which induced me thus to deviate 
from the usual course of a translator are obvious ; for even that portion of the 
text which treats of the native race contains many things that are not in tho 
least connected with ethnology, the good father being somewhat garrulous and 
rather fond of moralizing and enlarging upon religious matters, as might be 
expected from one of his calling; and, although he places the natives of the 
peninsula exceedingly low in the scale of human development, he takes, never- 
theless, occasion to draw comparisons between their barbaric simplicity and tho 
over-refined habits of the Europeans, much in the manner of Tacitus, who seizes 
upon every opportunity to rebuke the luxury and extravagance of his country- 
men, while he describes the rude sylvan life of the ancient inhabitants of Ger- 
many. My object being simply to rescue from oblivion a number of facts 
relating to a portion of the American race, I have omitted all superfluous com- 
mentaries indulged in by the author, and, in order to bring kindred subjects 
under common heads, I have now and then used some freedom in the arrange- 
ment of the matter, which is not always properly linked in the original. 
Althouo-h the second part of the book has chiefly furnished the material for 
this reproduction, I have transferred to the English text, and inserted in tho 
proper places, all those passages in the other divisions, and even in the two 
appendices that have a bearing upon ethnology, giving thus unity and com- 
pleteness to the subject,*which induced me to prepare these pages. For tho 
rest I have preserved, so far as feasible, the language of the author. Not 
23 s 



354 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 

much can be said, Lowcver, in favor of the style exhibited in the original, and 
even the spelling, of the words defies all rules of orthography, ■which were 
adopted a centuiy ago in the German language ; nor is our lather unaware of 
his deiiciencics, but honestly states in his preface that "if his style was none 
of the smoothest, and his orthography incorrect in some places, the reader 
might consider that during the seventeen years of his sojourn in California, 
comprising the period from 1751 to 1768, he hardly ever had conversed in 
German, and, consequently, almost forgotten the use of his mother language." 

Of the peninsula Father Baegert gives a rather woeful account. lie describes 
that region as an arid, mountainous country, covered with rocks and sand, 
deficient in water, and almost without shade-trees, but abounding in thorny 
plants and shrubs of various kinds. The sterility of the soil is caused by the 
scantiness of water. "No one," says the author, "need be afraid to drown 
himself in water; but the danger of dying from thirst is much greater." There 
falls some rain, accompanied by short thunder-storms, during the months of 
July, August, September^ and October, filling the channels worn in the hard 
ground. Some of these soon become dry after the showers ; others, however, 
hold water during the whole year, and on these and the stagnant water col- 
lected in pools and ponds men and beasts have to rely for drink. Of running 
waters, deserving the name of brooks, there are but six in the country, and of 
these six only four reach the sea, while the others lose themselves not very far 
from their sources among rocks and sand. There is nothing to be seen in 
Lower California that may be called a wood; only a few straggling oaks, 
pines, and some other kinds of trees unknown in Europe, are met with, and 
these are confined to certain localities. Shade and material for the carpenter 
are, therefore, very scarce. The only tree of any consequence is the so-called 
mesquite; but besides that it always grows quite isolated, and never in groups, 
the trunk is very low, and the wood so hard that it almost defies the applica- 
tion of iron tools. The author mentions, further, a kind of low Brazil wood, a 
tree called paloblanco, the bark of which serves for tanning ; the palohierro or 
iron-"wood, which is still harder than the mesquite ; wild fig trees that bear no 
fruit ; wild willows and barren palms, " all of which would be ashamed to 
appear beside a European oak or nut-tree." One little tree yields an odoriferous 
gum that was used in the Californian churches as frankincense. But in com- 
pensation for the absence of large trees, there is a prodigious abundance of 
prickly plants, some of a gigantic height, but of little practical use, their soft, 
spongy stems soon rotting after being cut. Among the indigenous edible pro- 
ductions of the vegetable kingdom ai^ chiefly mentioned the tunas or Indian 
figs, the aloe, and the pitahayas, of which the latter deserve a special notice 
as forming an important article of food of the Indians. There are tAvo kinds 
of this fruit — the sweet and the sour pitahaya. The former is round, as large 
as a hen's c^^, and has a green, thick, prickly shell that covers a red or white 
flesh, in which the black seeds are scattered like grains of powder. It is 
described as being sweet, but not of a very agreeable taste without the addition 
of lemon juice and sugar. There is no scarcity of shrubs bearing this fruit, 
and fi-om some it can be gathered by hundreds. They become mature in the 
middle of June, and continue for more than eight weeks. The sour pitahaya, 
which grows on low, creeping bushes, bristling Avith long spines, is much 
larger than the other kind, of excellent taste, but by far less abundant ; for, 
altliough the shrubs are very plentiful, there is hardly one among a hundred 
that bears fruit. Of the aloii or mescale, as the Spaniards and Mexicans call 
it, the fibres are used by the aborigines, in lieu of hemp, for making threads 
and strings, and its fruit is eaten by them. 

A very curious portion of the book is that which treats of the animals found 
in California. The author is evidently not much of aliaturalist, and, in classi- 
fying animals, he manifests occasionally a sovereign independence that would 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA 355 

shock the feelings of ca Blumonbach or Agassiz; yet his remarks, resulting from 
actual observation, are for the most part correct, and evince undeniably his 
love of truth. In the list of wild quadrupeds are enumerated the deer, hare, 
rabbit, fox, coyote, wild cat, skunk, (Sorillo,) leopard, (American panther,) 
onza, and wild ram. In reference to the last-named animal the author remarks: 
"Where the chain of mountains that runs lengthwise through the whole penin- 
sula reaches a considerable height, there are found animals resembling our 
rams in all respects, except the horns, which are thicker, longer, and much 
more curved. When pursued, these animals will drop themselves from the 
highest precipices upon their horns without receiving any injury. Their num- 
ber, however, cannot be great, for 1 never saw a living specimen, nor the fur 
of one in the possession of an Indian; but many skins of leopards and onzas." 

This animal is doubtless identical with the Eocky Mountain sheep, fOvia 
montana.) 

The feathered tribe does not seem to be very plentiful in California, since, 
according to Father Baegert, a person may travel one or two days without see- 
ing other birds but occasionally a tilthy vulture, raven, or "bat." Among the few 
which he observed are the red-bird, (cardinal) blue-bird, humming-bird, and 
an "ash-colored bird with a tail resembling that of a peacock and a beautiful 
tuft on its head;" also wild ducks and a species of swallow, the latter appear- 
ing only now and then in small numbers, and therefore considered as extraneous. 

There are some small fish found in the waters of California; but they do not 
amount to much, and during lent the father obtained his supply from the 
Pacific, distant 12 leagues from his habitation. On the other days of abstinence 
his meal usually consisted of a "little goat-milk and dry beans, and if a few 
eggs were added, he cared for nothing else, but considered himself well enter- 
tained." 

Under the comprehensive, but not very scientific head of " vermin," the author 
enumerates snakes, scorpions, centipedes, huge spiders, toads, wasps, bats, ants, 
and grasshoppers. These vermin seem to have been a great annoyance to the 
good missionary, especially the snakes, of which there are about twenty differ- 
ent kinds in California, the rattlesnake being, of course, the most conspicuous 
among them. This dangerous reptile, Avhich seems to be very numerous in that 
region, is minutely and correctly described, and, as might be expected, there 
are also some "snake stories" related. One day when the author was about 
to shave and took his razors from the upper board of his book-shelf, he discov- 
ered there, to his horror, a rattlesnake of large size. He received likewise in 
his new dwelling-hou:~e, which was a stone building, frequent visits from scor- 
pions, large centipedes, tarantulas, ants and toads, all precautions being unavail- 
mg against the intrusion of these uninvited guests. The grasshoppers are rep- 
resented as a real public calamity. Migrating from the southern part of the 
peninsula towards the north, they deluge the country, obscuring the sun by 
their numbers, and causing a noise that resembles a strong wind. IS ever devi- 
ating from their line of march, they will climb houses and churches encountered 
during their progress, laying waste all fields and gardens over which their per- 
nicious train passes. 

Of the climate in California the author speaks well, and considers it as both 
healthy and agreeable. Being only one degree and a half distant from the 
Tropic of Cancer, he lived, of course, in a hot region, and he remarks with ref- 
erence to the high temperature that some thought the name " California" was 
a contraction from the Latin words calida fornax, (hot oven,) without vouching, 
however, for the correctness of the derivation,' though he is certain that the ap- 
pellation is not of Indian origin. The greatest heat begins in the month of 
July and lasts till the middle of October ; but there is every day in the year 
quite a refreshing wind blowing, which begins at noon, if not sooner, and con- 
tinues till night. The principal winds are north west and south west ; the norti 



356 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 

wind blows only now and then during the winter months, hut the east wind 
hardly ever, the latter circumstance being somewhat surprising to the author, 
who observed that the clouds are almost invariably moving from the east. He 
never found the cold severer than during the latter part of September or April 
on the banks of the Rhine, where, after his return, the persevering coldness of 
winter and clouded atmosphere during that period made him long for the mild 
temperature and always blue and serene sky of the country he had left. Fogs 
in the morning are frequent in California, and occur not only during fall and 
winter, but also somt'timcs in the hot season. Dew is said to be not more fre- 
qu-ent nor lieaviei; than in middle Europe. 

Though the author represents California as a dry, sterile country, where but 
little rain falls, he admits that in those isolated ])arts where the proximity of 
water imparts humidity, the soil exhibits an astonisliiiig fertility. " There," ho 
gays, " one may plant what he chooses, and it will thrive; lliere the earth yields 
fruit a hundred-fold, as in the best countries of Europe, [producing wheat and 
maize, rice, pumpkins, water and othia- melons of twenty pounds' Aveight, cot- 
ton, lemons, oranges, plantains, pomegranates, excellent sweet grapes, olives 
and figs, of which the latter can be gathered twice in a summer. The same 
field yields a double or threefold harvest of maize, that grows to prodigious 
height, and bears sometimes tvvelve cars on one stalk. I have seen vines in 
California that produced in the second year a medium sized basket full of 
grapes; in the third or fourth year some are as thick as an arm, and shoot forth, 
in one season, eight and more branches of six feet length. It is only to be re- 
gretted that such humid places are of very rare occurrence, and that wiitcr for 
irrigating a certain piece of land sometimes cannot be found within a distance 
of sixty leagues." 

In the last chapter of the first part the author gives an account of the pearl 
fisheries and silver mines carried on in Lower California while he was there. 
Both kinds of enterprise arc represented as insignificant and by no means very 
profitable. " Every summer," he says, "eight, ten or twelve poor Spaniards 
from Sonora, Cinaloa or other parts opposite the peninsula, cross the Gulf in 
little boats, and encamp on the California shore for the purpose of obtaining 
pearls. They carry with them a supply of Indian corn and some hundred 
weight of dried beef, and are accompanied by a number of Mexican Indians, 
who serve as pearl fishers, for the Californians themselves have hitherto shown 
no inclination to risk their lives for a iew yards of cloth. The peail fishers 
are let down into the sea by ropes, being provided with a bag for receiving the 
pearl oysters which they rake from the rocks and the bottom, and when they 
can no longer hold their breath, they are pulled up agaiii with their treasure. 
The oysters, without being opened, are counted, and every fifth one is put aside 
for the king. Most of them are empty; some contain black, others white pearls, 
the latter being usually small and ill-shaped. If a Spaniard, after six or 
eight Aveeks of hard labor, and after deducting all expenses, has gained a hun- 
dred American pesos (that is 500 French livres, or a little more than 200 llhen- 
ish florins — a very small sum in America!) he thinks he has made a little for- 
tune Avhich he cannot realize every season. God knows whether the fifth part 
of the pearls fished in the Californian sea yields, on an average, to the Catho- 
lic king lf)0 or 200 pesos in a year, even if no frauds are committed in the 
transaction. I heard of only two individuals, with whom I was also personally 
acquainted, who had accumulated some wealth, after spending twenty and more 
years in that line of business. The others remained poor wretches, with all 
their pearl fishing." 

There were but two silver mines of any note in operation at the time of 
Bacgert's sojourn in California, and those had been opened only a few yeai'8 
previous to his arrival. They were situated in the districts of St. Anna and 
St. Autouio, near the southern eud of the peninsula, and only three leagues 



THE CALIFOENIAN PENINSULA. 357 

distant from eacli other. Digging for silver in California is not represented as 
a lucrative business, the owner of one of the mines being so poor tiiat he had 
to beg for his travelling money when he was about to return to Spain. The 
proprietor of the other mine was in better circumstances, but he owed his wealth 
more to other speculations than to his subterranean pursuits. The mining 
population iu the two districts amounted to 400 souls, women and children in- 
cluded, and the workmen were either Spaniards born in America, or Indians 
from the other side of the Californian gulf. The external condition of these 
people is represented as wretched in the highest degree. The soil produced 
almost nothing, and not having the necessary money to procure provisions from 
the Mexican side, they were sometimes compelled to gather their food iu the 
fields, like the native Californiana. The author speaks of a locality between 
the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth degree, called Eosario, where some sup- 
posed gold to exist, but even admitting the fact, he thinks it would be almost 
impossible to work mines iu that region, where neither food for men and beasts, 
nor water and wood, can be procured. Near the mission of St. Ignatius (28tb 
degree) sulphur is found, and on the islands of El Carmen and St. Joseph in 
the Californian gulf, and in different places on both coasts salt of very good 
quality is abundant. 

Having thus given an abstract of the first part of the book, I cannot con- 
clude these introductory remarks without saying a few words iu favor of the 
Jesuits. Whatever we may think, as Protestauts, of the tendencies of tliat 
order, we cannot but admit that those of its members who came as missionaries 
to America deserve great credit for their zeal in propagating a knowledge of 
the countries and nations they visited in the New World. To the student of 
American ethnology particularly, the numerous writings of the Jesuit fathers 
are of inestimable value, forming, as it were, the very foundations upon which 
almost all subseqiteut researches iu that interesting field of inquiry are based. 

" The missionaries and discoverers whom the order of the Jesuits sent forth 
were for the most part not only possessed of the courage of martyrs, and of 
statesmanlike qualities, but likewise of great knowledge and learning. They 
were enthusiastic travellers, naturalists, and geographers ; they wore the best 
mathematicians and astronomers of their time. They have been the first to 
give us iaithful and circumstantial accounts of the new countries and nations 
they visited. There are few districts in the interior of America concerning 
which the Jesuits have not supplied us with the oldest and best works, and we 
can scarcely attempt the study of any American language without meeting Avith 
a grammar composed by a Jesuit. In addition to their chapels and colleges iu 
the wilderness, the Jesuits likewise erected observatories ; and there are few 
rivers, lakes, and mountains iu the interior, which they have not been the first 
to draw upon our maps." 

Witli this well-deservod etdogy, which is qvaoted from Mr. J. G. Kohl's re- 
cent work on the discovery of America, I leave to Father Baegert himself the 
task of relating his experiences among the natives of Lower California. 



AN ACCOUNT OF THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF THE 
CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 

CHAPTER I. — THE STATITIE, COMPLEXION, AND \U.MBER OF THE CALIFORMANS ;. 
ALSO, WHENCE AND HOW THEV MAY HAVE COME TO CALIFORNIA. 

In physical appearance the Californians resemble perfectly the Mexicans and 
Other aboriginal inhabitants of America. Their skin is of a dark chestnut or 
clove color, passing, however, sometimes into different shades, some individuals 
bein"- of a more swarthy complexion, while others are tan or copper colored. 



358 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 

But in new-born cliildren the color is much paler, so that they hardly can be 
distinguished from white children when presented for baptism; yet it appears 
soon after birth, and assumes its dark tinge in a short time. The hair is black 
as pitch and straight, and seldom turns gray, except sometimes in cases of 
extreme old age. They are all beardless, and their eye-brows are but scantily 
provided with hair. '1 he heads of children at their birth, instead of being cov- 
ered with scales, exhibit hair, sometimes half a linger long. The teeth, though 
never cleaned, are of the whiteness of ivory. The angles of the eyes towards 
the nose are not pointed, but arched like a bow. They are well-formed and 
well-proportioned*people, very supple, and can lift up from the ground stones, 
bones, and similar things with the big and second toes. All walk, with a few 
exceptions, even to the most advanced age, perfectly straight. Their children 
stand and walk, before they are a year old. briskly on their feet. Some are tall 
and of a commanding- appearance, others small of stature, as elsewhere, but no 
corpulent individuals are seen among them, which may be accounted for by their 
r.i.iimer of living, for, being compelled to run much around, they have no chance 
01 icrowing stout. 

in a country as j)oor and sterile as California the number of inhabitants can- 
not be great, and nearly all would certainly die of hunger in a few days if it 
were as deni^ely populated as most parts of Europe. There are, consequently, 
very few Californians, and, in proportion to the extent of the country, almost 
as few, as if there were none at all ; yet, nevertheless, they decrease annually. 
A person may travel in different parts four and more days M'ilhout seeing a 
single human being, and I do not believe that the number of Californians from 
the promontory of St. Lucas to the llio Colorado ever amounted, before the 
arrival of the Spaniards, to more than forty or fifty thousand souls.* It is 
certain that in 1767, in fifteen, that is, in all the missions, from the 22d to the 
31st degree, only twelve thousand have been counted. But an insignificant 
popidation and its annual diminution are not peculiar to California alone ; both 
are common to all America. During my journey overland along the east side 
ot the Californian gulf, from Guadalaxara to the river liiaqui, in the IMexican 
territory, a distance of four hundred leagues, t I saw only thirteen small Indian 
^-illages, and on most daj-s I did not meet a living soul. Father Charlevoix, 
before setting out on a journey through Canada or New France, writes in his 
first letter, addressed to the Duchess of Lesdiguieres, that he wotdd have to 
travel sometimes a hundred and more leacrues without seeiu": any human beings 
besides his companions. | 

With the exception of Mexico and some other countries. North America was, 
even at the time of the discovery, almost a wilderness when compared with 
(xcrmany and France ; and this is still more the case at the present time. 
Whoever has read the history of New France by the above-named author, or 
has travelled six or seven hundred leagues through Mexico, and, besides, ob- 
tained reliable information concerning the populaiion of other provinces, can 
easily form an estimate of the number of native inhabitants in North Auierica; 
and if the southern half of the New World does not contain a hundred times 
more inhabitants than the northern part, which, relying on the authority of men 
who have lived there many years and have travelled much in that country, I 
am far from believing, those European geographers who speak in their books of 
300 millions of Americans are certainly mistaken. Who knows whether they 

•WasLiugton, Irving states they liad numbered from 25,000 to 30,000 souls AvLen the first 
missions were established; ou what authority I do not know. — Adccnlurcs of Captain Bon- 
neville, (cd. of 1851,) p. 3.32. 

i Sliinden. — I translate this word by "league," though the French //ewe is a little longer 
than tiie German stumle. 

t Jlistoiie de la Nouvelle France, par le P. de CharleToix. Paris, 1744 ; vol. v, p. 66 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 359 

would find ill all more than fifteen or twenty millions? The many hundred 
languages which are spoken in South America alone are a sure evidence of a 
scanty population, although the contrary might be inferred at first sight; for, if 
there were more people, there would he more communiiy among them, the tribes 
would live closer together, and, as a result, there would be fewer languages. 
The Ikas in my district speak a language different from that of the other people 
in my mission ; but I am pretty sure that the whole nation of these Ikas never 
amimntcd to five hundred persons. 

It is easy to comprehend why America is so thinly populated, the manner of 
living of the inhabitants and tiieir continual wars among themselves being the 
causes of this deficiency ; but how it comes that, since the discovery of ihe fourth 
part of the woHd, its population is constantly melting down, even m those prov- 
inces where the inhabitants are not subjected to the Europeans, but retain their 
full, unrestrained liberty, as, for instance, according to Father Charlevoix, in 
Louisiana, (that is, in the countries situated on both sides of the Mississippi,) la 
a question, the solution of which I leave to others, contenting myself with what 
is written in the Psalms, namely, that the increase or diminution of the human 
race in difterent countries is a mystery which man cannot penetrate. 

However small the number of Califoruians is, they are, nevertheless, divided 
into a great many nations, tribes, and tongues.* If a mission contains only one 
thousand Si)uls, it may easily embrace as many little nations among its parish- 
ioners as Switzerland counts cantons and allies. My mission consisted of 
Paurus, Atshemes, Mitshirikutamais, Mitshirikuteurus, Mitshirikutaruanajeres, 
Teackwas, Teeuguabebes, Utsliis, Ikas, Aujukwares, Utshipujes ; all being 
different tribes, but hardly amounting in all to five hundred souls. 

It might be asked, in this place, why there existed fifteen missions on the 
peninsula, since it appears that 12,000, and even more, Indians could be con- 
veniently superintended and taken care of by three or four priests. The answer 
is, that this might be feasible in Germany as Avell as in a hundred places out of 
Europe, but is utterly impracticable in California; foi", if 3 or 4,000 Califor- 
uians were to live together in a small district, the scanty means of subsistence 
afforded by that sterile country would soon prove iusutficieut to maintain tliem. 
Besides, all of these jietty nations or tribes have their own countries, of which 
they are as much, and sometimes even more, enamored than other people of theirs, 
80 that they would not consent to be transplanted fifty or more leagues from 
the place they consider as their home. And, further, the different tribes who 
live at some distance from each other are always in a mutual state of enmity, 
which would prevent them from living peaceably together, and offer a genoue 
obstacle to their being enclosed in the same fold. In time of general contagiouis 
diseases, lastly, which are of no unfVeq[uent occurrence, a singk; priest could no\ 
perform his duties to their full extent in visiting all his widely scattered patients, 
and administering to their spiritual and temporal Avants. My parish countec 
far less than a tliousand members, yet their encampments were often more thar< 
thirty leagues distant from each otlier. Of the languages and dialects in this 
country there are also not a few, and a missionary ia glad if he has mastered 
one of them. 

It remains now to state my opinion conccrnin^T' the phvce where the Califor- 
niaus came from, and in what manner they effected their migration to the country 
they now occupy. They may have come from different localities, and either 
voluntarily or by some accident, or compelled by necessity ; but that people 

*.Tbe autlior probably fell into tbe very common piTor of confounding dialects witb lan- 
guages. Dr. Waitz, relying on Busclmi;iun's linguistic rescarcbes, mentions only tlireo prin' 
cipal languages spoken by tlie uatives of Lower California, viz., tbe I'erieu, Monqiii, and 
Cocbimi languages.— Jn^Aro/joio^te dcr NaturtOlker von Dr. Theodor IVaitz. Leipzig, 1864 ; 
vol iv, p. 2Ati. 



360 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OP 

elioiild have migrated to California of their own free will, and without compul- 
Bion, 1 am unable to believe. America is very large, and could easily support 
fifty times its number of inhabitants on much belter soil than that of California. 
How, then, is it credible that men should have pitched, from free choice, their 
tents amidst the inhospitabh; dreariness of these barren rocks ] It is not impos- 
sible that the first inhabitants may have found by accident their way across the 
eea from the other side of the Californian gulf, where the provinces of Cinaloa 
and Sonora are situated ; but, to my knowledge, navigation never has been 
practiced by the Indians of that coast, nor is it in use among them at the 
present time. There is, furthermore, within many leagues towards the interior 
of the country no kind of wood to be had suitable for the construction of even 
the smallest vessel. From the Pimeria, the northernmost country opposite the 
peninsula, a transition might have been easier cither by land, after crossing the 
Rio Colorado, or by water, the sea being in this place very narrow and full of 
islands. In default of boats they could employ their balsas or little rafts made 
of reeds, which are also used by my Californians who live near the sea, either 
for catching fish or turtle, or crossing over to a certain island distant tAvo leagues 
from the shore. I am, however, of opinion that, if these Pimerians ever had 
gone to California induced by curiosity, or had been driven to that coast by a 
Btorm, the dreary aspect of the country soon Avould have caused them to return 
without delay to their own country. It was doubtless necessity thnt gave the 
impulse to the peopling of the peninsula. Nearly all neighboring tribes of 
America, over whom the Europeans have no sway, are almost without cessation 
at war with each other, as long as one party is capable of resistance ; but when 
the weaker is too much exhausted to carry on the feud, the vanquished usually 
leaves the country and settles in some other part at a sufficient distance from 
its foes. I am, therefore, inclined to believe that the first inhabitants, while 
pursued by their enemies, entered the peninsula by land from the north side, 
and having found there a safe retreat they remained and spread themselves out. 
If they had any traditions, some light might be thrown on this subject ; but no 
Californian is acquainted with the event's that occurred in the country prior to 
his birth, nor does he even know who his parents were if he should happen to 
have lost them during his infancy. 

To all appearance the Californians, at least those toward the south, believed, 
before the arrival of the Spaniards in their country, that California constituted 
the whole world, and they themselves its sole inhabitants ; for they went to 
nobody, and nobody came to see them, each little people remaining within the 
limits of its small district. Some of those under my care believed to be de- 
rived from a bird ; some traced their origin from a rock that was lying not far from 
my house ; while others ascribed their descent to still different, but always 
equally foolish and absurd sources. 

CHAPTER II. — THEIR HABITATIONS, APPAREL, IMPLEMENTS, AND UTENSILS. 

With the exception of the churches and dwellings of the missionaries, which 
every one, as well as he could, and as time and circumstances permitted, built 
of stone and lime, of stone and mud, of huge unburnt bricks, or other materials, 
and besides some barracks which the Indians attached to the missions, flie few 
soldiers, boatmen, cowherds, and miners have now erected in the fourteen sta- 
tions, nothing is to be seen in California that bears a resemblance to a city, a 
village, a human dwelling, a hut, or even a dog-house. The Californians them- 
Bclves spend their whole life, day and night, iu the open air, the sky above them 
forming their roof, and the hard soil the couch on which they sleep. During 
winter, only, when the Avind blows sharp, they construct around them, but only 
opposite the direction of the Avind, a half moon of brush-wood, a few spans high, 



THE CALIFOKNIAN PENINSULA. 361 

as a protection against the inclemency of the weather,* showing thus that not- 
withstanding their simplicity, they understand pretty well "how to turn the 
mantle towards the wuKl."t It cannot be otherwise with them; for, if they 
had houses, they would be compelled to carry their dwellings always with 
them, like snails or turtles, the necessity of collecting food urging them to wan- 
der constantly about. Thus they cannot start every morning from the same 
place and return thither in the evening, since, notwithstanding the small num- 
ber of each little people, a small tract of land could not provide them with 
provisions during a whole year. To-day the water will fail them ; to-morrow 
they have to go to some locality for gathering a certain kind of seed that serves 
them as food, and so they fulfil to the letter what is written of all of us, namely, 
that wc shall have no fixed abode in this world. I am certainly not much mis- 
taken in saying that many of tliem change their night-quarters more than a 
hundred times in a year, and hardly sleep three times successively in the same 
place and the same part of the country, always excepting those who are con- 
nected with the missions. Wherever the night surprises them they will lie 
down to sleep, not minding in the least the uncleanliness of the ground, or ap- 
prehending any inconvenience from reptiles and other vermin, of which there 
is an abundance in this country. They do not live under the shade of trees, as 
some authors have said, because there are hardly any trees in California that 
afford shade, nor do they dwell in earth-holes of" their own making, as others 
have said, but sometimes, and only when it rains, they resort to the clefts and 
cavities of rocks, if they can find such sheltering places, which do not occur 
as frequently as their wants require. 

Whenever they undertake to construct shelters for protecting their sick from 
heat or cold, the entrance is usually so low that a person has to creep on hands 
and feet in order to get in, and the whole structure is of such small dimensions 
as to render it impossible to stand erect within, or to find room to sit down on 
the ground for the purpose of confessing or comforting the patient. Of no better 
condition are the huts of those Indians Avho live near the missions, the same 
being often so small and miserable that man and wife hardly can sit or lie down 
in them. Even the old and infirm are utterly indifferent as to their being under 
shelter or not, and it happened often that I found old sick persons lying in the 
open air, for whose accommodation I had caused huts to be built on the pre- 
ceding day. So much for habit. 

As the blue sky forms the only habitation of the Californian Indians, so they 
wear no other covering than the brown skin with which nature has clothed them. 
This applies to the male sex in the full sense of the word, and even women have 
been found in the northern parts of California in a perfect state of nudity, while 
among most nations the females always covered themselves to a small extent. 
They did. and still continue to do, as follows : They understand how to pre- 
pare from the fibres of the aloe plant a white thread, which serves them for 
making cords. | On these they string hundreds of small sections of Avater-reed, 
like beads of a rosary; and a good number of these strings, attached by their 
ends to a girdle, and placed very close and thick together, form two aprons, 
one of Avhich hangs down below the abdomen, while the other covers the hind 
part. These aprons are about a span wide, and of different length. Among 



* Captain Bonneville gives a cheerless account of a village of the Root Diggers, which lio 
saw in crossing the plain below Powder river. "They livt!," says lie, " without any Curther 

[)rotection from the inclemency of the season than u sort of break-wouther, about tlirce feet 
ligh, composed of sage, (or wormwood, ) and erected around them in the shape of a half 
moon.'"— H'a^lii)igton Irving : Adventures of Caj)tain Bvnncville, p. 5i59. 
t German proverb. 

t It may not be out of place to mention here that in Mexico the dried fibres of the aloe or 
maguey plant (Agave Americana) are a universal substitute for hemp in the manufacture of 
cordage and packing-cloth. 



362 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OP 

some nations they reach down to the knees ; among others to the calves, and 
even to the feet. Both sides of the thighs, as well as the rest of the body, re- 
main perfectly naked. In order to save labor, some women wear, instead of the 
back-aprons, a piece of untanned deer-skin, or any woollen or linen rag which 
they can now-a-days obtain. Of the same untanned skin tliey make, if they 
can get it, their shoes or sandals, simply flat pieces, which they attach to the 
feet by coarse strings of the above-mentioned aloe, passing between the big and 
small toes and around the anklcvS. 

Loth sexes, the grown as well as the children, wear the head always uncov- 
ered, however inclement the weather may be, even those in a certain mission 
who understand how to manufacture pretty good hats from palm-luaves, Avhich, 
on account of their lightness, were frequently Avorn by the missionaries while 
on their travels. The men allow the hair to grow down to the shoulders. Wo- 
men, on the contrary, wear it much shorter. Formerly they pierced the ears of 
new-born children of the male sex with a pointed stick, and by putting bones and 
pieces of wood into the a])erture they enlarged it to such a degree that, in some 
grown persons, the flaps hung down nearly to the shoulders. At present, how- 
ever, they have abandoned this unnatural usage. It has been asserted that 
they also pierce the nose. 1 can only say that I saw no one disfigured in that 
particular manner, but many middle-aged persons with their ears perforated as 
described above. Under certain circumstances, and on their gala days, they 
paint different parts of the body with red and yellow color, which they obtain 
by burning certain minerals. 

The baptized Indians, of course, obsei'ved more decency in regard to dress. 
The missionaries gave each male individual, once or twice in a year, a piece of 
blue cloth, six spans long and two spans wide, for covering the lower part of 
the body, and, if their means allowed it, a short woollen coat of blue color. The 
women and girls Avere provided Avith thick white veils, made of avooI, that cov- 
ered the head and the Avhole body down to the feet. In some missions the 
women recei\'ed also petticoats and jackets of blue flannel or Avoven cotton 
ehirts, and the men trowsers of coarse cloth and long coats. But the Avomen 
ihroAv aside their veils, and the men their coats, as soon as they leave church, 
because those coverings make them feel uneasy, especially in summer, and im- 
pede the free use of their limbs, Avhich their mode of living constantly requires. 
I Avill mention here that all these goods had to be brought from the city of 
Mexico, since nothing of the kind can be manufactured in California for want 
of the necessary materials. The number of sheep that can be kept there is 
small, and, moreover, they lose half their avooI by passing through the thorny 
shrubs, of which there is an astonishing abundance in this ill-favored country. 

It is not to be expected that a people in as low a state of development as the 
Californians should make use of many implements and utensils. Their Avbolc 
furniture, if that expression can be applied at all, consists of a boAv and arrows, 
a flint instead of a knife, a bone or pointed piece of Avood for digging roots, a 
turtle-shell serving as basket and cradle, a large gut or bladder for fetching 
water and transporting it during their excursions, and a bag made like a fishing 
net from the fibres of the aloe, or the skin of a Avild cat, in Avhich they preserve 
and carry their provisions, sandals, and perhaps other insignificant things Avhich 
they may happen to possess. 

The bows of the Californians are more than six feet long, sliglitly curA^d, 
and made from the roots of Avild willows. They are of the thickness of the 
five fingers in the middle, round, and become gradually thinner and pointed 
tOAvards the ends. The bow-strings are made of the intestines of beasts. The 
shafts of their arroAvs consist of common reeds, Avhich they straighten by the 
fn-e. They are above six spans long, and have, at the lower end, a notch to 
catch the string, and three or iour fi'athers, about a finger long, not much pro- 
jecting, and let into slits made for that purpose. At llie upper end of the shaft 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 363 



a pointed piece of heavy wood, a spaa aud a half loug, is inserted, bearing 
usually at its extremity a tiint of a triangular shape, almost resembling a serpent's 
tongue, and indented like the edge of a saw * The Californians' carry their 
bows and arrows always with them, and as they commence at an early age to 
use these weapons many of them become very skilful archers. 

In lieu of knives aud scissors they use sharp flints for cutting almost every- 
thing — cane, Avood, aloe, aud even their hair — and for disembowelling and skin- 
ning animals. With the same flints they bleed or scarify themselves, and 
make incisions for extracting thorns and splinters which they have accidentally 
run into tlijeir limbs. 

The whole art of the men consists in the manufacture of bows and arrows, 
while the mechanical skill of the females is merely conflned to the making of 
the above-mentioned aprons. Of a division of labor not a trace is to be found 
among them ; even the cooking is done by all without distinction of sex or age, 
every one providing for himself, and the children commence to practice that 
necessary art as soon as they arc able to stir a fire. The time of these people 
is chiefly taken up by the search for food and its preparation; and if their physical 
wants are supplied they abandon themselves entirely to lounging, chattering, and 
sleep. This applies particularly to the roaming portion of the Californian In- 
dians, for those who dwell near the missions now established in the country are 
sometimes put to such labor as the occasion may require. 

CHAPTER III. OF THEIR FOOD AND THE MANNER OF PREPARING IT. 

Notwithstanding the barrenness of the country, a Californian hardly ever dies 
of hunger, except, perhaps, now and then an individual that falls sick in the wil- 
derness and at a great distance from the mission, for those who are in good health 
ti'ouble themselves very little about suph patients, even if these should happen 
to be their husbands, wives, or other relations ; and a little child that has lost 
its mother or both parents is also occasionally in danger of starving to death, 
because in some instances no one will take charge of it, the father being some- 
times inhuman enough to abandon his offspring to its fate. 

The food of the Californians, as will be seen, is certainly of a mean quality, 
yet it keeps them in a healthy condition, and they become strong and grow old 
in spite of their poor diet. The only period of the year duiing Avhich the Cali- 
fornians can satisfy their appetite without restraint is the season of the pitaha- 
yas, which ripen in the middle of June and abound for more than eight Aveeks. 
The gathering of this fruit may be considered as the harvest of the native in- 
habitants. They can eat as much of it as they please, and with some this food 
agrees so well that they become corpulent during that period ; and for this rea- 
son I Avas sometimes unable to recognize at first sight individuals, otherwise 
perfectly familiar to me, Avho visited me after having fed for three or four weeks 
on these pitahayas. They do not, however, preserve them, and when the sea- 
son is over they are put again on short rations. Among the roots eaten by 
the Californians may be mentioned the yuka, which coiistitutes an important 
article of food in many parts of America, as, for instance, in the island of Cuba, 
but is not very abundant in California. In some provinces it is made into a 
kind of bread or cake, while the Californians, who would find this process too 
tedious, simply roast the yukas in a fire like potatoes. Another root eaten by 
the natives is that of the aloe plant, of which there are many kinds in this 
country. Those species of this vegetable, however, which aSbrd nourishment 
for not all of them are edible — do not grow as plentifully as the Californi- 
ans mi"-ht wish, and very geldom in the neighborhood of water ; the prepara- 



* In the collection of Dr. E. H. Davis, of New York, there are a inimber of arrows ob- 
' tained from the Imliaus of the island of Tihnron, in the Culifornian gulf. They answer, ia 
every respect, the description given in the text. 



364 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 

tions, moreover, which are necessary to render this phmt eatable, require much 
time and kibor, as will be mentioned hereafter. I saw the natives also frequently 
eat the roots of the common reed, just as they were taken out of the water. 
Certain seeds, some of them not larger than those of the mustard, and different 
Borts in pods that grow on shrubs and little trees, and of which there are, ac- 
cording to Father Piccolo, more than sixteen kinds, are likewise diligently 
sought ; yet they furnish only a small quantity of grain, and all that a person 
can collect with much toil during a whole year may scarcely amount to twelve 
bushels.* 

It can be said that the Californians cat, without exception, all animals they 
can obtain. Besides the different kinds of larger indigenous quadrupeds and 
birds ah-eady mentioned,! they live now-a-days on dogs and cats ; horses, asses 
and mules ; ifc7n, on owls, mice and rats ; lizards and snakes ; bats, grasshop- 
pers and crickets; a kind of green caterpillar without hair, about a finger long, 
and an abominable white worm of the length and thickness of the thumb, which 
they fnid occasionally in old rotten wood, and consider as a particular delicacy. 
The chase of game, such as deer and rabbits, furnishes only a small portion of 
a Californian's provisions. Supposing that for a hundred families three hun- 
dred deer are killed in the course of a year, which is a very fiivorablc estimate, 
they Avould supply each fiimily only with three meals in three hundred and 
Bixty-fivc days, and thus relieve but in a very small degree the hunger and the 
poverty of these people. The hunting for snakes, lizards, mice and field-rats, 
which they practice with great diligence, is by far more profitable and supplies 
them with a much greater quantity of articles for consumption. Snakes, espe- 
cially, are a favorite sort of small game, and thousands of them find annually 
their way into the stomachs of the Caliibrnians. 

In catching fish, particularly in the Pacific, which is much richer in that re- 
spect than the gulf of California, the natives use neither nets| nor liooks, but 
a kind of lance, — that is, a long, slender, pointed piece of hard wood, which they 
handle very dexterously in spearing and killing their prey. Sea-turtles are 
caught in the same mannei-. 

I have now mentioned the different articles forming the ordinary food of the 
Californians ; but, besides these, they reject nothing that their teeth can chew 
or their stomachs are capable of digesting, however tasteless or unclean and 
disgusting it may be. Thus they will eat. the leaves of the Indian fig-tree, the 
tender shoots of certain shrubs, tanned or untanned leather ; old straps of raw 
hide with which a fence was tied together for years ; item, the bones of poultry, 
s'.ieep, goats and calves ; putrid meat or fish swarming with worms, damaged 
wheat or Indian corn, and many other things of that sort which may serve to 
appease the hunger they are almost constantly suffering. Anything that is 
thrown to the hogs will be also accepted by a Californian, and he takes it 
without feeling offended, or thinking for a moment that he is treated below his 
dignity. Por this reason no one took the trouble to clean the wheat or maize, 
which was cooked for them in a large kettle, of the black worms and little bugs, 
even if the numbers of these vermin had been equal to that of tlie grains. By 
a daily distribution of about 150 bushels of bran, (which they are in the habit 
of eating without any preparation,) I could have induced all my parishioners 

* One multer, in German, wliich is about equivalent to twelve bushels. 

tin the intioduction. 

t Venegiis mentions fishing-nets made of the pita plant, (Noticia de la California, vol. i, p. 
52.) According to Baegert, (Appendix i, p. '.V2-^,) no such plant exists in Calii'oniia, and iho 
word "pita" only signifies the tiuead twisted from (he aloe. • In refuting Venegas, Father 
Baegert hardly ever refers to the original t^panish work, nor mentions the name of its author, 
but attacks the French translation, wliich was published in Paris in the year 1/(37. lie 
probably acted so from motives of delicacy, Venegas himself being a priest and brother 
Jesuit. The effect of this proceeding, as can be imagined, is comical in a high degree. 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 3G5 

to remain permanently iu the mission, excepting during tlie time when the pita- 
hay as are gathered. 

I saw one day a bliud man, seventy years of age, who was busily engaged in 
pounding between two stones an old shoe made of raw deer-skin, and when- 
ever he had detached a piece, he transferred it promptly to his mouth and swal- 
lowed it ; and yet this man had a daughter and grown grand-children. As 
soon as any of the cattle arc killed and the hide is spread out on the ground 
to dry, half a dozen boys or men will instantly rush upoa it and comm;.Mice to 
work with knives, flints and their teeth, tearing and scratching off pieces, which 
they eat immediately, till the hide is full of holes or scattered in all directions. 
In the mission of St. Ignatius and in others further towards the north, there 
are persons who will attach a piece of meat to a string and swallow it and pull 
it out again a dozen times in succession, for the sake of protracting the enjoy- 
ment of its taste. 

I must here ask permission of the kind reader to mention something of an 
exceedingly disgusting and almost inhuman nature, the like of which probably 
never has been recorded of any people ia the world, but which demoustratea 
better than anything else the whole extent of the poverty, uncleauness and 
voracity of these wretched beings. In describing the pitahayas,* I have al- 
ready stated that they contain a great many small seeds resembling grains of 
powder. For some reason unknown to me these seeds are not con,7umed in the 
stomach, but pass off in an undigested state, and in order to save them the 
natives collect, during the season of the pitahayas, that which is discharged 
£i-om the human body, separate the seeds from it, and roast, grind and eat them, 
making merry over their loathsome meals, -which the Spaniards therefore call 
the second harvest of the Califomians.t When I first heard that sucli a filthy 
habit existed among them, I was disinclined to believe the report, but to my 
utter regret I became afterwards repeatedly a Avitness to the proceeding, which 
they are unwilling to abandon like many other bad practices. Yet 1 must say 
in their favor that they have always abstained from human flesh, contrary to 
the horrible usage of so many other American nations who can obtain their 
daily food much easier than these poor Californians. 

They have no other drink but the water, and Heaven be praised that they 
axe unacquainted with such strong beverages as are distilled in many Ameri- 
can provinces from Indian corn, the aloe and other plants, and which the 
Americans in those parts merely drink for the purpose of intoxicating them- 
selves. When a Californian encounters, during his wanderings, a pond or pool, 
and feels a desire to quench his thirst, he lies flat on the ground and applies 
his mouth directly to the water. Sometimes the horns of cattle are used as 
drinking vessels. 

Having thus far given an account of the different articles used as aliment by 
the aborigines of the peninsula, I wiH now proceed to describe in what manner 
they prepare their victuals. They do not cook, boil, or roast like people 
in civilized countries, because they arc neither acquainted with these methods, 
nor possessed of vessels and utensils to employ for such purposes; and, besides, 
their patience would be taxed beyond endurance, if they had to wait till a 
piece of meat is well cooked or thoroughly roasted. Their whole process 
simply consists in burning, singeing, or roasting in an open fire all such victuals 
as are not eaten in a raw state: Without any formalities the piece of meat, 
the fish, bird, snake, field-mouse, bat, or whatever it may be, is thrown into 
the flames, or on the glowing embers, and left there to smoke and to sweat for 
about a quarter of an hour; after which the article is withdrawn, in most cases 



* Introduction. 

tThis statement is corroborated in all particulars by Clavigero, in his Storia ddla Call' 
fornia, (Venice, 1780,) vol. i, p, 117. 



366 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OF 

only burned or cliarred on tLe outside, but Ptill raw avid bloody witliin. As 
soon ari it has become sufficiently cool, they t^liake it a little in order to remove 
tht; adhin-inj? dust or sand, and eat it with «-reat relish. Yet I must add here, 
that they do not previously take the trouble to skin the mice or disembowel 
the rats, nor deem it necessary to clean the hall'-emi)tied entrails and maws of 
larger animals, which they have to cut in pieces before Ihey can roast them. 
Seeds, kernels, grasshoppers, green caterpillars, the Avhite worms already men- 
tioned, and similar things that Avould be lost, on account of their smalhiess, in 
the embers and flames of an open fire, are parched on hot coals, which they 
constantly throw up and sliake in a turtle-shell, or a kind of frying-pan woven 
jout of a certain plant. What they have parched or roasted in this- manner is 
ground to powder betAveen two stones, and eaten in a dry state. Bones are 
treated in like manner. 

They eat everything unsalted, though they might obtain plenty of salt ; but 
since the}'' cannot dine every day on roast meat and constantly change their 
quarters, they would find it too cumbersome to carry always a supply of salt 
with them. 

The preparation of the aloe, also called ?nescale or maguey by the Spaniards, 
requires more time and labor. The roots, after being properly separated from 
the plants, are roasted for some houi-s in a strong fire, and then buried, twelve 
or twenty together, in the ground, and well covered with hot stones, hot ashes, 
and earth. In this state they have to remain for twelve or fourteen hours, and 
when dug out again they are of a fine yellow color, and perfectly tender, 
making a very palatable dish, which has served me frequently as food when I 
had nothing else to eat, or as dessert after dinner in lieu of fruit. But they 
act at first as a purgative on persons who are not accustomed to them, and 
leave the throat somewhat rough for a few hours afterwards. 

To light a fire the Oalifornians make no use of steel and flint, but obtain it 
by the friction of two pieces of wood. One of them is cylindrical, and pointed 
on one end, which fits into a round cavity in the other, and by turning the 
cylindrical piece with great rapidity between their hands, like a twirling stick, 
they succeed in igniting the lower piece, if they continue the process for a 
sufficient length of time. 

The Oalifornians have no fixed time for any sort of business, and eat, con- 
sequently, whenever they have anything, or feel inclined to do so, which is 
nearly always the case. I never asked one of them whether he was hungry, 
who failed to answer in the affirmative, even if his appearance indicated the 
contrary. A meal in the middle of the day is the least in use among them, 
because they all set out early in the morning for their foraging expeditions, 
and return only in the evening to the place from Avhich they started, if they 
do not choose some other locality for their night quarters. The day being 
thus spent in running about and searching for food, they have no time left for 
preparing a dinner at noon. They start always empty-handed ; for, if per- 
chance something remains from their evening repasts, they certainly eat it 
during the night in waking moments, or on the following mornmg before 
leaving. The Oalifornians can endure hunger easier and much longer than 
other people ; whereas they will cat enormously if a chance is given. I often 
tried to buy a piece of venison from them when the skin had but lately been 
stripped of? the deer, but regularly received tbe answer that nothing was left ; 
and I knew well enough that the hunter who killed the animal needed no 
assistance to finish it. Twenty-four pounds of meat in twenty -four hours is 
not deemed an extraordinary ration for a single person, and to see anything 
eatable before him is a temptation for a Californian which he cannot resist ; 
and not to make away with it before night would be a victory he is very 
seldom capable of gaining over himself. 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA. 367 

One of tliem requested from hif< missionary a number of goats, in order to 
live, as he said, like a decent man; that is, to keep liouse, to pasture the goata, 
and to support himself and his family m ith their milk and the flesh of the kids. 
But, alas ! in a few days the twelve goats with wliich the missionary had pre- 
sented him Avere all consumed. 

A priest who had lived more than thirty years in California, and whose 
veracity Avas beyond any doiibt, assured me repeatedly that he had 'known a 
Californian who one day ate seventeen watermelons at one sitting; and anoth,cr 
native who, after having received from a soldier six pounds of unclarified sugar 
as pay for a certaiu debt, sat down and munched one piece after another till 
the six pounds had disappeared. He paid, however, dearly for his gluttony, 
for he died in consequence of it ; while the melon-eater was only saved by 
taking a certain physic which counteracted the bad effects of his greediness. 
I was called mys-lf one evening in great haste to three or four persons, who 
pretended to be dying, and wanted to confess. These people belonged to a 
band of about sixty souls, (women and children included,) to Mhom 1 had given, 
early in the morning, three bullocks in compensation for some labor. When 
I arrived at the place where they lay encamped, I learned that their malady 
consisted merely in belly-ache and vomiting; and, recognizing at once the 
cause of their disorder, I reprimanded them severely for their voracity, and 
went home again. 

CHAPTER IV.— ^OF THEIR MARRIAGES AND THE EDUCATION OF THEIR CHILDREN. 

As soon as the young Californian finds a partner, the marriage follows im- 
mediately afterwards ; and the girls go sometimes so far as to di-mand impetu- 
ously a husband from the missionary, even before they are twelve years old, 
which is their legitimate age for marrying. In all the missions, however, only 
one excepted, the number of men was considerably greater than that of the 
females. 

Matrimonial engagements are concluded without much forethought or scruple, 
and little attention is paid to the morals or qualities of the parties; and, to con- 
fess the truth, there is hardly any dilfen-nce among them in these respects ; 
and, as far as good sense, virtue, and riches are concerned, they are always 
sure to marry their equals, following thus the old maxim : Si vis nuhcre, nubc 
j)ari. It happens veiy often that near relations want to join in wedlock, and 
their engagements have, therefore, to be frustrated, such cases excepted in 
which the impcdimentuvi ajffinitatis can be removed by a dispensation from the 
proper authorities. 

They do not seem to marry exactly for the same reasons that induce civ- 
ilized people to enter into that state ; they simply want to have a partner, and 
the husband, besides, a servant Avhom he can command, although his authority in 
that respect is rather limited, for the -women are somewhat independent, and 
not much inclined to obey their lords. Although they are now duly married 
according to the rites of the Catholic church, nothing is done on their part to 
solemnize the act ; none of the parents or other relations and friends are 
present, and no wedding feast is served up, unless the missionary, instead of 
receiving his marriage fees, or jura stolae, presents them Avith a piece of meat, 
or a quantity of Indian corn. Whenever I joined a couple in matrimony, it 
took considerable time before the bridegroom succeeded in putting the Avedding 
ring on the right finger of his future Avife. As soon as the ceremony is over, 
the neAv married couple start off in different directions in search of food, just as 
if they were not more to each other to-day than they Avere yesterday; and in 
the same manner thoy act in future, providing separately for their eupport, 
sometimes without living together for Aveeks, and Avithout kuoAving anything 
of their partner's abiding place. 



3G8 THE ABORIGINAL INHABITANTS OP 

Before tlicy were baptized eacli man took as many wives as he liked, and if 
there Averc several sisters in a family lie married them all together. The son- 
in-law was not allowed, for some time, to look into the face of his mother-in- 
law or his wife's next female relations, but had to step aside, or to hide himself, 
when these women were present. Yet they did not pay much attention to con- 
sanguinity, and only a few years since one of them counted his own daughter 
(as he believed) among the number of his wives. They met without any 
formalities, and their vocabulary did not even contain the words "to marry," 
which is expressed at the present day in the Waicuri language by the para- 
phrase tikerc midiri — that is, " to bring the arms or hands together." They 
had, and still use, a substitute for the word "husband," but the etymological 
meaning of that expression implies an intercourse with women in general. 

They lived, in fact, before the establishment of the missions in their country, 
in utter licentiousness, and adultery was daily committed by every one without 
shame and without any fear, the feeling of jealousy being unknown to them. 
Neighboring tribes visited each other very often only for the purpose of spending 
some days in opeu debauchery, and during such times a general pi'ostitution 
prevailed. Would to God that the admonitions and instructions of those who 
converted these people to Christianity and established lawful marriages among 
them, liad also induced them to desist entirely from these evil practices ! Yet 
they deserve pity rather than contempt, for their manner of living together en- 
genders vice, and their sense of morality is not strong enough to prevent them 
from yielding to the temptations to which they are constantly exposed. 

In the first chapter of this book I have already spoken of the scanty popu- 
lation of this country. It is certain that many of their women are barren, and 
that a great number of them bear not more than one child. Only a few out of 
one or two hundred bring forth eight or ten times, and if such is really the case, 
it happens very seldom that one or two of the children arrive at a mature age. 
I baptized, in succession, seven children of a young woman, yet I had to bury 
them all before one of them had reached its third year, and when I was about 
to leave the country I recommended to the woman to dig a grave for the eighth 
child, with which she was pregnant at the time. The unmarried people of both 
sexes and the children generally make a smaller group than the married and 
widowed. 

The Californian women lie in without difSculty, and without needing any 
assistance. If the child is born at some distance from the mission they carry 
it thither themselves on the same day, in order to have it baptized, not minding 
a walk of two or more leagues. Yet, that many infants die among them is not 
surprising ; on the contrary, it would be a Avonder if a great number remained 
alive. For, when the poor child first sees the light of day, there is no other 
cradle provided for it but the hard soil, or the still harder shell of a turtle, in 
which the mother places it, without much covering, and drags it about wherever 
she goes. And in order to be unencumbered, and enabled to use her limbs with 
greater freedom while running in the fields, she will leave it sometimes in charge 
of some old woman, and thus depiive the poor creature for ten or more hours of 
its natural nourishment. As soon as the child is a few months old the mother 
places it, perfectly naked, astraddle on her shoulders, its legs hanging down on 
both sides in front, and it has consequently to learn how to ride before it can 
stand on its fet^t. In this guise the mother roves about all day, exposing her 
helpless charge to the hot rays of the sun and the chilly v/iuds that sweep over 
the inhospitable country. The food of the child, tdl it cuts its teeth, consists 
only in the milk of the mother, and if that is wanting or insufficient, there is 
rarely another woman to be found that would be willing, or, perhaps, in the 
pi'opcr condition, to take pity on the poor starving being. I cannot say that 
the Californian Avomen are too fond of their children, and some of them may 
even consider the loss of one as a relief from a burden, especially if they have 



THE CALIFORNIAN PENINSULA 369 

already some small cliildrcn. I did not see many Californian mothers who 
caressed their children much while they lived, or tore their hair when they 
died, although a kind of dry weeping is not wanting on such occasions. The 
father is still more insensible, and does not even look at his (or at least bis 
wife's) child as long as it is small and helpless. 

Nothing causes the Californians less trouble and care than the education of 
their children, which is merely confined to a short period, and ceases as soon 
as the latter are capable of making a living for themselves — that is, to catch 
mice and to kill snakes. If the young Californians have once acquired sufiS- 
cient skill and strength to follow these pursuits, it is all the same to them 
whether they have parents or not. Nothing is done by these in the way of 
admonition or instruction, nor do they set an example v.'orthy to be imitated 
by their offspring. The children do what they please, without fearing repri- 
mand or punishment, however disorderly and wicked their conduct may be. 
It would be well if the parents did not grow angry when their children are 
now and then slightly chastised for gross misdemeanor by order of the mis- 
sionary ; but, instead of bearing with patience such wholesome correction of 
their little sons and daughters, they take great offence and become enraged, 
especially the mothers, who will scream like furies, tear out the hair, beat tlieir 
naked breasts with a stone, and lacerate their heads with a piece of wood or 
bone till the blood flows, as I have frequently witnessed on such occasions.* 

The consequence is, that the children follow their own inclinations without 
any restraint, and imitate all the bad habits and practices of their equals, or 
still older persons, without the slightest apprehension of being blamed by their 
fathers and mothers, even if these should happen to detect them in the act of 
committing the most disgraceful deeds. The young Californians who live in 
the missions commence roaming about as soon as mass is over, and those that 
spend their time in the fields go Avherever, and with whomsoever, they please, not 
seeing for many days the faces of tlieir parents, who, in their turn, do not mani- 
fest the slightest concern about their children, nor make any inquiries after 
them. These are disadvantages which the missionary has no power of amending, 
and such being the case, it is easy to imagine how little he can do by instruction, 
exhortation, and punishment, towards improving the moral condition of these 
young natives. 

Heaven may enlighten the Californians, and preserve Europe, and especially 
Germany, from such a system of education, which coincides, in part, with tke 
plan proposed by that ungodly visionary, J. J. Rousseau, in his " Emile," and 
which is also recommended by some other modern philosophers of the same 
tribe. If their designs are carried out, education, so far as faith, religion, and 
the fear of God are concerned, is not to bo commenced before the eighteenth or 
twentieth year, which, if viewed in the proper light, simply means to adopt the 
Californian method, and to bring up youth without any education at all. 

(to be continued in the next repout.) 

* This statement does not seem to agree well with the alleged indifference of the Californian 
»romen towards their children, and the formalities which the Californians were obliged to 
observe, when meeting with the mothers and other female relations of their wives, renders a 
total absence of jealousy among them rather doubtful. Dr. Waitz has also pointed out the 
latter discrepancy while citing a number of facts contained in our autlior's work, (Anthro- 
pologie der Naturvoelker, vol. iv, p. 250.) My object being simply to give an English ycr- 
Bion of Baegert's account, I abstain from all comments on such real or seeming incongruities. 

24 s 



ETHiNOLOGY. 



FROM THE LONDON ATH^NEUM, 



Halifax, Nova Scotia, June 21. 1863. 

During the last winter's session of the Nova Scotian Institute of Natural 
Science, the llev. John Ambrose, rector of the parish of St. Margaret's bay, a 
district lying on the Atlantic seaboard of this colony, brought to the notice of 
the Institute the existence of extensive beds of refuse shells and bones, mixed 
■with fragments of rude pottery, and perfect and imperfect flint arrow and spear 
lieads. Gifted Avith an inquiring mind, the gentleman in question naturally 
considered that their occurrence was not a matter of chance ; and, following up 
the subject, he ascertained that similar beds had been known to exist on the 
shoi^es of Denmark and the adjacent isles, and that they had received the name 
of hjoihlicn-moidding, or kitchen-middings, from being heaps of refuse shells, 
bones, &c., thrown aside by the primitive race of men who, in days of remote 
antiquity, visited annually, or dwelt continuously, in such positions. On perus- 
ing an article published in the report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1860, 
which gave an interesting account of the kitchen middinga of Europe, as sur- 
veyed by the Danish archeologists, a perfect resemblance to those of the Nova 
Scotian coast was at once perceived, in so far at least as the few specimens then 
obtained from these heaps proved. 

To endeavor to make a thorough search, and prove the nature of these de- 
posits, the Council of the Institute of Natural Science decided upon having a 
field meeting on the spot where the kitchen middings lay; and, accordingly, on 
the 11th of June last, a large party proceeded by land from Ilalifex, the capital 
of the province, to St. Margaret's bay, which is distant, in a S.SW. direction, 
about twenty-two miles. This bay is exceedingly spacious, runs inland some 
eight or ten miles, and is in breadth, perhaps, five or six miles. A few islands 
stand at the entrance as well as at its head, and long, low, promontories, clothed 
with spruce, birch, and maple, stretch into the water at the NE. corner, forming 
snug coves and sheltered strands. It is on the shore of one of these minor 
bays, having a sandy beach, where canoes could be hauled up easily and safely, 
that the principal lcjoikTxcn-in(nddhig, found by Mr. Ambrose, lay, on a rising 
knoll some twenty feet above the bay at high-water mark. It forms part of a 
grass field belonging to a farm-house hard by, and according to the statement 
of the farmer, and the appearance it presents, has been submitted to little, if 
any, disturbance at the hand of man. The deposit appears to have extended 
about fifty yards or more in length by a well-defined breadth of eight yards. 
Its surface is irregularly depressed and dotted over, on its western extremity, 
with granitic boulders of no great size. The soil which covers the mass is 
similar to that of the field in which it occurs, though, perhaps, a little darker in 
color. It grows common meadow grass and the ordinary field plants, and its 
cl;';)th does not exceed two or three inches when the shell deposit appears, pre- 
senting a layer of compact shells, perfect and imperfect, in which lie bones of 
animals and birds, flint and quartz arrow and spear heads, large and small teeth, 
and broken pieces of very roughly made pottery, bearing evident traces of 
attempt at ornament. This pottery was very dark in color, and contained in 
its substance grains of granitic sand, and mica in quantity. From the pieces of 
rim obtained, judging from their curvature, the earthen vessels could scarcely 
have exceeded the dimensions of a quart bowl. These bowls or cups must 
have been in common use, as the fragments occur in some plenty. No traces 



ETHNOLOGY. 371 

of implements denoting any connexion with the later iron age occnrrcd, and the 
only objects on which the art of man had been practiced beyond tlu; pottery and 
flint weapon-heads were bones shai-pened into awls, one of which was obtained 
in a very perfect state. 

In the midst, but more abundantly at the bottom, of the refuse deposits 
occurred rounded stones, from the size of a man's clenched hand and upwards, 
bearing evident traces of having undergone the action of fire. These stones are 
precisely similar to those found on the beach beneath. 

At the bottom of the refuse heap, which occurred at a distance of eighteen 
inches from the surface, a layer of black soil came two inches thick ; then a 
layer of white brown sand of the same thickness ; then came a reddish colored 
earth, getting lighter as the spade went down, until the original foundation of 
hardened drift proclaimed no further investigation necessary in that direction. 
Taking a general view of the surface, the observer naturally supposed that the 
rounded granitic boulders which lie scattered on the heap had afforded seats for 
the primitive people, who rudely cooked their food at this encampment on the 
edge of the Avild forest ; nor was the supposition incorrect, for on digging around 
these boulders greater masses of shells, and more evident traces of lire were 
apparent than in other parts of the heap. The charcoal, in some instances, had 
lost but little of its former consistency, while in others it powdered into dust on 
being handled. This probably arose from the nature of the wood, some kinds 
affording a hard charcoal, and others soft. 

The Fauna of this Nova Scotian 'kjo>khcn-m(Kdd'mg., so far as it could be 
ascertained, was as follows : Of mammals, the moose, ( Cervus alces,) the bear, 
(Ursus americanus,) the beaver, ( Castor canadensis,) and the porcupine, ( Hys- 
trix dorsata,) were noticed; the beaver and porcupine by their teeth, which, from 
their brightness and compactness, might just have been taken from the jaw. A 
beaver's tooth had the root part rubbed, and smoothed to a head, giving, with 
its chisel-like point, the appearance of an instrument for cutting. Some of 
these teeth were jagged on their edges as if by artificial means. The bones 
of the animals had been broken, and, with the exception of a fcAV very small 
ones, none were obtained whole. Of birds, there were the bones of different 
species, some very large, and evidently belonging to a bird much larger than the 
great northern diver, ( (Jolymhus glaclalis,) which is one of the largest wild 
birds in the colony at the present clay. The bird bones were also more or less 
broken, and one in particular had been opened by means of a cutting instrument 
down the side. Of fishes, the vertebrse of two or three species, the largest 
measuring about an inch in diameter, while two or three specimens of the oper- 
cular spines of the Norway haddock, ( Sebastes norwegians,) were procured 
among the debris in a perfect state, which led to the supposition that they were 
used for some purpose, such as pricking holes. Of moUusks, the most common 
were the quahog, ( Venus merccnaria,) clam, (Mya arcnaria,) scallop, (Pecten 
islandmis,) Cre-pidula furnkata and Mytilus eduUs. Of the two former species 
nearly the whole mass of shell consisted. The mussel shells had become so 
friable that the slightest touch was sufficient to break them. 

Time did not permit, however, a closer examination to be made on this first 
visit to the mounds ; but isome members of the Institute, aware of the interest 
attaching to the subject, have decided upon camping out during the ensuing 
summer in the vicinity of other deposits known to exist in various places, and 
hope, by thoroughly excavating the several mounds, to bring to light specimens 
which will doubtless help to prove the age in which they were constructed, and 
the similarity which existed between the manner and customs of the race who 
formed them, and the constructors of those placed in like positions on the shores 

of Denmark and Northern Europe. 

J. M. JONES, 
President of the Institute of Natural Sciences. 



ABSTRACT OF THE FIFTH REPORT OF DR KELLER 

ON 

LAOUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 



FROM THE BULLETIN OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF GENEVA. 



In January, 1854, certain works, undertaken on the slioros of tlie Lake 
of Zurich, at Obermeilen, brought to view, with the mud and ooze from the 
bottom of the water, an assemblage of ancient remains, together Avith piles. 
Dr. Keller, president of the Archseological Society of Zurich, published in the 
spring of 1854 a first report respecting this discovery. It was a brief but lucid 
description, accompanied with numerous figures, and the conclusion was even 
then arrived at that there had existed in ancient times, at the point in question, 
habitations built upon pile-work. Discoveries of the same kind were rapidly 
multiplied in Switzerland, few savants possessing, in an equal degree with Dr. 
Keller, the art of guiding and encouraging others in the labors of research. Hi3 
con-espondence forms a connected course of instruction, strikingly recommended 
by the unaffected liberality which pervades it, and which naturally evokes a 
reciprocal spirit of frank communication in regard to all noAv facts and observa- 
tions. To this concurrence of efforts, directed to different points, which, taken 
separately, would have been of little avail, we owe the rapid development of 
Swiss archtcology ; and it is this also which has enabled Dr. Keller to publish 
a second report on lacustrian habitations in 1858, a third in 1860, a fourth in 
1861, and now the fifth, with which Ave are at this moment occupied. These 
several reports are all distinguished by an affluence of well-ascertained facts, 
and of accurate figures, as Avell as by the absence of those idle discussions 
and fantastic reflections Avhich are still but too rife in matters of archaiology. 
Nor is it a circumstance unworthy of notice that even our neighbors of Italy 
and Germany have contributed to SAvell this fifth report by valuable communi- 
cations presented under their own names ; for Dr. Keller is of that class of 
saA-ants who conscientiously render to each AvhatoA^er is his due, and Avillingly 
withdraAv themselves from notice in order to give greater prominence to the 
merits of another. 

Unfortunately Dr. Keller only ptiblishes in German, Avhence his reports, 
though noAV and then containing an article Avritten in French, such as the ex- 
cellent paper of M. L. Rochat on the lacustrian habitations of the neighbor- 
hood of Yverdon, are too little kuoAvn in certain countries. There should be a 
French publication recapitulating the labors of the savant of Zurich, but a 
natural repugnance is felt to undertaking such a work while progress and dis- 
covery are Btill in full career. We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to a 
simple revicAv of the fifth report, Avhich is before us. 

This report commences Avith a notice of ten pages on the Tcrramara de 
r Emilia, by M. P. Strobe, professor of natural history in the University of 
Parma, and M. L. Pigorini, a young archaeologist of the city of that name. 
The German translation is from the pen of M. Strobel, who speaks and writes 
German perfectly well. Three plates, comprising eighty-nine figures, accom- 



LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 373 

pany this notice, whicli resembles those given by Dr. Keller in its avoidance 
of all useless phraseology. 

In the duchy of Parma there occur, in the level tracts bordering upon rivers, 
deposits of a peculiar nature, which have been for some time employed, imder 
the name of terramara, in the culture of lands. They arc accumulations of a 
marshy nature, interspersed with beds of river ooze, of charcoal and cinders, 
through the whole of which ai"e thickly strewn the crushed bones of animals, 
pieces of wood, fragments of pottery, and divers objects in hone, in stone, and 
in bronze. It is apparent that man once inhabited these places, liable as they 
were to occasional submersion. At one point there was found, in good preser- 
vation, a floor built upon piles, which had been planted in a marshy soil be- 
neath shallow water, which, by the accumulation of solid material, had since 
become dry land. 

The bronze articles occuring in the terramara are hatchets, reaping-hooks, 
lance-heads, poniard-blades, hair-pins, a small bronze comb, chisels, and awls, 
the whole bemg of the kind met with in Switzerland and the north, and re- 
garded as characteristic of the age of bronze. The pottery is coarse, composed 
of clay mingled with sand, rudely shaped by hand, without the use of the wheel, 
as is still practiced in villages of the Appenine in preparing utensils intended 
to resist the action of fire. The vases present a peculiarity, not as yet else- 
where observed, in being often furnished with small handles, drawn out into 
variously shaped horns and knobs, and sometimes ornamented Avith stripes. 
Spindle whirls, plain or striped, are of frequent occurrence. Among the objects 
of bone may be mentioned two combs, embellished with carvings in the manner 
of the bronze age, and among those of wood the remnant of a wicker basket. 
The remains of animal bones have been carefully studied by Professor Strobel, 
who, after having compared them with those of the lacustrian settlements of 
Switzerland, described by Professor Rutimeyer, of Bale, has had the satisfaction 
of seeing even the most questionable of his decisions confirmed by the last- 
named savant. The species thus far recognized by M. Strobel are : remains 
of the bear, the wild boar, the roe-buck, and the stag ; and, of domestic animals, 
the dog, the horse, the ox, the hog, the goat, and the sheep, all of them races 
occurring in the lakes of Switzerland. To this list should be added some re- 
mains of birds, and, among others, of the domestic fowl, Avith those of terrestrial 
and fluviatile moUusks, still found alive in the country. The vegetable king- 
dom has contributed various kinds of wood, wheat, (triticum turgidiim,) beans, 
hazel-nuts, pears, apples, service-berries, acorns, and the capsules Avhich enclose 
the seeds of flax. It would appear from the collective circumstances that the ter- 
ramara represents what may be called the kitchen-middens (kjxkken-inosdding) 
of the age of bronze, formed in co-operation with the alluvium of rivers. 

Lacustrian settlement at Peschiera, on Lake Garda, in Italy. — M. de Silber, 
Austrian officer of engineers at Verona, reports that, in dredging at theentrance 
of the port of Peschiera, remains of pile-work were found, entirely buried in the 
mud at the bottom of the water, while the mud itself contained numerous ob- 
jects in bronze, of which Dr. Keller gives three plates of figures. These con- 
sist of poniard-blades, hair-pins of various shapes, hooks, or small fish spears, 
a knife, and some small remnants of clothing, all bearing much resemblance to 
those taken from the lakes of Switzerland. Among these objects from Peschiera 
are some of copper, which leads Dr. Keller to dissent from the generally re- 
ceived idea that the age of bronze, properly so called, had its origin in Asia, 
since Europe would then have had no ago of copper, forming the necessary 
stage between the age of stone and that of bronze. Ur. Keller presents, in sup- 
port of his opinion, a plate comprising the figures of twenty-eight objects of red 
copper, chiefly hatchets and coins, found in Hungary and Transylvania, and 
he adduces the testimony of a friend of his, who resided long in Hungary, and 



374 LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 

who affirms that these objects of copper are freq[ueut in the countries of the 
lower Danube. 

Lacustrian settlements of the Untersee, that is, of the portion of the Lake of 
Cojistance to the east of the city of Constance. — For several years an extensive 
pile-work of the age of stone, situated near the village of Wangen, at one league 
and a half from Stein, had been used, Avith a view to the trade in antitj^uities, 
by one Loehle, under the direction of Dr. Keller, who has spoken of this locality 
in previous reports, liecently M. K. Dehoti', employed in the customs of the 
grand duchy of Baden, has explored the whole Baden part of the Untersee, 
and his account, occupying nine pages, is given with the skill of a master, and 
the precision of a mathematician. Many of the observations already made at 
Waugen are here reproduced, but several interesting results of a general nature 
flow from them. In the lirst place, there is the absence, in all this region, of 
pile-works belonging to the age of bronze, all those explored up to this time 
having furnished, besides pottery, bone, buck-horn, &c., only stone, vrithout 
any trace of metal, which does not import, however, that none will ever be 
found. Another curious remark is, that silex of foreign production occurs, un- 
shaped and in abundance, at certain localities, denoting a place of fabrication, 
while elsewhere it is wholly wanting, as if the division of labor had existed, 
not only among individuals of the same settlement, but among the lacustrian 
villages, to some of which the preparation of instruments of silex, for the com- 
mon supply, had been specially assigned. It is also a striking circumstance 
that in these settlements without metals are not unfrequently found hatchets 
of serpentine of excellent form, so ingeniously and even ornamentally wrought 
that we might be inclined to refer them to a later age, characterized by greater 
advances in art, and by the employment of bronze. On the other hand, such 
handles of buck-horn for the stone wedge as are found at Meileu, at Moossedorf, 
and elsewhere, are almost entirely Avanting in the Untersee. Here the usual 
form of handle for the stone wedge was the branch, bent and notched with a 
ligature to retain the wedge in the notch. Two plates, with twenty-seven fig- 
ures, accompany the memoir of M. Dchofif, comprising, among others, the plan, 
with sections, of the pile-work near Alleusbach, the place of each pile being 
indicated, which gives, for the first time, a complete and correct idea of the 
subject. In concluding, M. DehofF furnishes also some information respecting 
the prolongation, towards the northwest, of the Lake of Constance, called 
Ueberlingersee, which presents, in respect to lacustrian settlements, the same 
features with the Untersee. 

The fascine-work of Niedcr- Wyl, near Frauerfeld, canton of Thurgau. — Dr. 
Keller, while he gives the French term fascinage, calls it in German pack- 
werkbau, corresponding somewhat to that which is known in Ireland under 
the name of crannoge. A small lake, or, more properly, a natural pond, filled 
with peat, was subjected to exploration. At one point the workmen reached, 
at a depth of from two to three feet, under the surface of the peat-moss, a col- 
lection of wood and solid matter, forming a sort of isle of about 20,000 square 
feet, around which there was a depth of eight or ten feet of the peat before at- 
taining the ancient bed of the lake. This isle was ascertained to be an artificial 
construction, which had served as a foundation for habitations. To the selected 
point in the lake it seems that logs and boughs were brought, bound together 
m rafts, and loaded with sand to make them sink, piles being driven around to 
mark the limits of the construction, and the operation repeated till it rose above 
the surface of the water. A floor of logs, in close juxtaposition, was then laid 
upon sills regularly arranged, and tliis floor was covered with a layer of com- 
pacted clay, upon which the dwellings were erected. These dwellings were 
rectangular, being, on an average, twenty feet long and twelve wide. The 
walls, parts of which were still in place, were formed of logs split into rough 
boards, confined between stakes or posts planted vertically at suitable inter- 



LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 375 

vals. la the corner of one of these dwellings there was found a hearth formed 
of unwrought flag-stones, still covered with coals and cinders. The floors, 
having sometimes sunk, at one point or other, to the extent of several inches, 
even a foot or more, the level had been restored by filling up the cavity. It 
would seem, in some instances, that the entire floor had sunk beneath the level 
of the water, and new ones been constructed above, since the reniaius of articles 
of domestic use or production occur between the two courses. The dwellings, 
which seem to have been covered with thatch, Avere distant fiom one another 
only two or three feet, and it is in these interstitial spaces, where the floors 
-were more or less interrupted, that the remains of human industry have been 
chiefly discovered. This settlement bears no marks of having been destroyed 
by fire ; it appears to have been voluntarily abandoned. At all events, its re- 
mains are the most complete and best preserved which have been yet dis- 
covered in Switzerland. 

The constructions discovered by Colonel Suter, of Zofinguen, in the peat- 
moss of Wau\\(yl, much resemble those just described, only at AVauwyl they 
are more primitive and less skilfully combined, although those of Niederwyl be- 
long to the age of stone, as well as those of Wauwyl. The researches at 
Niederwyl have disclosed hatchets of stone, wheat and tissues of flax, both 
charred, fragments of pottery, and bones of animals, which had served for food. 
We owe this interesting discovery to the zeal of il. Pupikofer, who has super- 
intended the excavations made by M. Messikommer. 

Lacustrian settlement near Zug, described by Professor MuMberg, of Zug. — 
In the suburbs of Zug, on the road leading to Cham, workmen were diggiug 
the foundations of a house, when, at a depth of five feet, a dark-colored bed of 
decomposed organic matter was encountered, in which were found hatchets of 
stone, fragments of silex, hulls of hazel and beach nuts, apple-seeds and animal 
bones, together with the tops of stakes planted vertically, on som(i of which 
still rested cross-pieces of wood. Here, there were evidently the remains of a 
lacustrian settlement of the age of stone, embosomed in the solid earth which 
had gradually encroached upon the lake. The bones have been examined by 
Professor liutimeyer, of Bale, and he has distinguished the cow, of that race 
which he names afcer the peat, the peat hog, the peat dog, the roe and the deer. 
Settlement of Ebersberg, canton of Zurich. — In a sequestered spot, at the 
back of a hill called the Ebersberg, near the Rhine, ancient remains have been 
found, Avhich M. Escher de Berg has described in vol. vii, 4th part, of the Me- 
moirs of the ArchiEological Society of Zurich. M. Escher resumed his re- 
searches in 1862, and has drawn up an account of his explorations, Avhicli were 
continued for G4 days. This site has a peculiar interest, for it presents there- 
mains of a settlement on terra firma, and an assemblage of objects entirely 
corresponding Avith those which characterize the lacustrian habitations of the 
ao-e of bronze, for instance, in the lake of Bieline. Under 5 or G feet of detri- 
tus, an ancient surface of well-rammed clay was brought to light, and on this 
surface were discovered near one another the remains of two rectangular ovens, 
5 to 6 feet long by 3 broad, formed of siliceous pebbles and clay mixed Avith 
much sand. Beyond these there was a pavement of pebble stones, and it was 
on these substructions that the bed containing anticpe articles immediately 
rested, while the thick mass of superincumbent humus was entirely destitute 
of them. In the .bed spoken of, the very first excavations had yielded a cres- 
cent of stone skilfully cut. In the recent excavations a second crescent has 
been disclosed, but composed of baked clay, precisely like those taken by Col- 
onel Schwab from the lake of Bicnne, and which were probably used in the 
religious rites of the time. These later researches have also yielded : fragments 
of flint, wedges or hatchets of serpentine, stones for crushing grain ; and, of 
bronze, two knives, some dozens of hair-pins like those of the lakes, several 
small chisels, an arrow-point, a number of rings and of plates of metal orua- 



376 LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 

Qientecl witli lines. Otlicr objects obtained arc: a bead of glass or of blue and 
white enamel, such as we now have from the lakes of Bieuue and Neufchatel ; 
buck-horns carved ; fossil teeth of the shark taken from the molasse of the 
country ; spindle-whirls of baked clay ; pottery, like that of the bronze-sites 
in the lakes ; cones of baked clay, with a hole at top, designed doubtless as 
weights to stretch the threads in the process of weaving ; and pieces of the 
clay facings of the walls of wicker-work, bearing the impression of the branches 
or osiers destroyed by fire. Bones of aniuials were by no means wanting, and 
they have been ascertained by Professor Rutimeyer to pertain to a cow of large 
species, to the hog, the goat, the deer and the roe-buck. 

Lacustrian settlement af UohenJiaicsen, at Lake PIdJJikon, canton of Zuricli. — 
Of this notice has been taken in previous publications of Dr. Keller. M. Mes- 
sikommer continues to make explorations, leading to interesting observations 
and to the discovery of objects, often of great curiosity, Avhich, after having 
submitted them to the inspection of Dr. Keller, he offers for sale. This local- 
ity is situated in a moss, at the east end of the lake, which there had but little 
depth, and where the growth of the peat has by degrees advanced the limits of 
the dry land. To arrive at the bed containing piles and antique objects, it is 
necessary to remove some six feet of peat ; this requires long continued exhaus- 
tion, but the objects are in a remarkable state of preservation. The report on 
recent researches is drawn up by IM. Messikommer, who even indites some 
pleasing verses on the occasion. He has remarked that the objects are found 
more or less grouped, according to their nature. Thus, at certain points, char- 
red cereals occur in abundance ; elsewhere flax prepared for s])inning ; further 
on there may be flax woven or platted, and at still another place numbers of 
those perforated cones of baked clay which pertained to textorial operations. 
At one point M. Messikommer discovered that under the floor of the ancient 
dwelling there Avas a formation of peat from 2 to 2^ feet deep, beneath which 
was found another floor, still more ancient. We must infer that the place was 
long inhabited and during the age of stone, for not the least trace of metal has 
been met with. 

The new acquisitions at Robenhausen, to which Dr. Keller has appropriated 
two plates, are : a canoe formed of the hollowed trunk of a tree, 12 feet long 
by 1 J wide, with a depth of 5 inches (the Swiss foot has 10 Inches and is 
equivalent to 0.3 of a meter;) some well fashioned bows of yew wood; an 
arrow point of silcx, still attached to its wooden staff by means of flax thread 
and mineral bitumen ; a hatchet or wedge of stone fixed transversely in a 
wooden handle, somewhat club-shaped ; another hatchet of stone fixed in a piece 
of buck's horn, which again was fastened transversely to the handle of wood. 
This last arrangement was also met with at Concise, but the stupendous im- 
postures practiced at that locality throw suspicion on whatever comes from it, 
especially when it is known that the counterfeiters went so far as to cast their 
own fabrications into the lake, that they might be afterwards drawn up by the 
dredge before the eyes of the amateurs. At Robenhausen, divers articles of 
wood also have been collected, such as knives, basins, implem(!uts which served 
perhaps for beating butter, and large spoons like those for skimming milk. 
Among articles of flax, recently obtained, may be mentioned a portion of a girdle 
or ribbon quite skilfully Avoven, so as to present a small figure in squares of 
very neat appearance; also remnants of fishing-nets, with meshes measuring 
0.05 of a meter on the side; and, lastly, a bit of cloth to which a pocket is at- 
tached by sewing. 

Scttlaneni in the lalce of Botcrget, in Savoij. — Baron Despine having drawn 
attention to a pile-work in the lake of Bourget, the Savoyard Society of history 
and archaeology caused reseaches to be made, under the direction of MM. Des- 
pine and Delaborde. M. Rabut Laurent has given an account of them, in the 
Bulletin of the above Society, from ISGl to 18G2, second number, p. 44, and 



f 



LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 377 

this report ia here republished by Dr. Keller. At the point in question there 
have been found articles of pottery, calcined bones, a stone hammer, a small 
bronze ring, cars of wheat, acorns, hazelnuts, cherry-stones, grains of millet, 
and, what has not been yet met with in Switzerland, husks of chestnuts. Professor 
Desor also has made explorations in the lake of Bourget ; and M. Louis Revon, 
the zealous and able director of the museum of Annecy, has commenced them 
in the pile-works of the lake of Annecy. , 

Lake of Neuchdtcl, nno discoveries of Colonel ScJnoah, 4 plates, comprising 
71 figures. — The indefatigable colonel has caused dredgings to be executed at 
several points and has considerably enriched his admirable collection at Bienne. 
Certain objects reappear in indefinite numbers, such as haii--pius of bronze, but 
from time to time new and curious articles repay the zeal of the antiquary. 
We may distinguish of this class, a wheel of cast bronze, 0.49 of a meter in 
diameter; it has four radii, which, equally with the perimeter, are hollow. The 
nave, also hollow, is prolonged on both sides, making its entire length 50 of 
a meter. Near this wheel, thirteen small objects of the crescent-moon shape 
were found, each with a handle perforated at the end, as if to suspend the ob- 
ject, which is of bronze cast in a single piece. These, as well as the wheel, 
were perhaps employed in some religious ceremony. Similar small crescents 
appear also in the exquisite collection of ]\radame Febvrc, of Chisenl, at Macon, 
a French lady, Avhose 83 years place in stronger relief the artistic discrimination, 
as Avell as the rare and high-bred courtesy of the venerable owner. Among 
the new acquisitions of Colonel Schwab we should further specify a sling of 
platted flax, exactly like one brought from the Sandwich Islands, and to be seen 
in the museum ot Berne ; also several beads of amber, and others, oblong in 
form, of blue glass or enamel, around which is encrusted a spiral of white enamel. 
These glass beads have been met with at four stations, whose characteristics 
clearly assign them to the age of bronze. In Mecklenberg, also, beads of blue 
glass, but of simple formation, have been twice found in tombs of that age. 
It is to the age of bi'onze, then, that we must refer the appearance of glass, but 
only in the shape of such beads ; and even these are extremely rare at that 
epoch, at least in countries north of the, Alps. 

Of all Colonel Schwab's discoveries, the most curious is the product of a 
station of the age of bronze near Coataillod, being a dish in terra cotta, fash- 
ioned by the unassisted hand, having a diameter of 0.39 of a meter and a height 
of 0.4 of a meter, and inlaid on the inner surface with small plates of tin. 
These plates, which are themselves embellished with carved lines, are so ar- 
ranged as to form a geometrical design surprisingly rich and ingenious, com- 
prising among others a circuit of figures, which recall those, in the Greek man- 
ner, seen on Etruscan vases. The surface of the vessel had been blackened 
and rendered lustrous by being rubbed with graphite. It has not been ascer- 
tained by what means the tin was made to adhere to the surface of the material. 

The above notices are followed by some account of the stations of pile-work 
in the lakes of Sempach, Baldegg and Maucn, and by a brief memoir of pro- 
fessor Deicke on the researches made by M. Ullersberger of Uberlinger in the 
lake of Constance. The publication of Dr. Keller concludes Avith 7 pages of 
remarks on the book entitled Laciistrirm Habitations of Ancient and Modern 
Times, by F. Troyon. After having long kept silence. Dr. Keller at length 
raises his voice to rectify the errors and refute the absurdities of the book in 
question ; a book which tends to induce obscurity, where it would be so de- 
sirable to proceed by sober investigations, set forth in simple and precise terms. 
Dr. Keller incidentally notices that his own reports have been entirely absorbed 
in the work of M. Troyon. The distinguished savant of Zurich could say no 
more, for he is not one to complain of having been unfairly laid under contri- 
bution. In the remarks spoken of, he shows that the collective phenomena of 
lacustriau settlements seem to evince a gradual and peaceful development of 



378 LACUSTRIAN SETTLEMENTS. 

civilization in Switzerland, from the age of stone to the Roman epoch, without 
an indication of violent social convulsions or industrial revolutions, suddenly 
superinduced by external and intrusive influences. It is doubtless picturesque 
to burn periodically, as M. Troyon does, all the lacustrian cities and to massa- 
cre their population. But it is more rational to recognize, as Laplace did at 
the close of his long and brilliant career, that what we know is little, Avhile 
what we do not Imow is immense ! 

A. MORLOT. 

P. S. — The seventeenth plate of Dr. Keller is not alluded to in the text of 
the report ; it contains plans of the lakes of Neuchatel, Bieune, Morat and 
Sempach, with an indication, according to the researches of Colonel Schwab, 
of all the lacustrian stations discovered, distinguishing them as respectively 
dating from the age of stone, of bronze, of iron, or finally from the Roman 
epoch, for there are a few where Roman objects have been found. Professor 
Vogt has published a work on man, Vorlesungun ncher den Menschcn, in which 
lie severly criticises certain parts of M. Troyon's " Jjacustrian Habitations," 
upon which Dr. Keller had not animadverted; and the central organ of German 
archaeology, published at Nurnberg, Anzciger fur hunde dec deutschen vorzeit, 
equally takes ground against M. Troyou's book. (See Beilage, No. 10, Octo- 
ber, 18G3, page 373.) 



AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS 



NORTH AMERICAN STONE PERIOD. 



BY CHAS. RAU, OF NEW YORK. 



My collectiou of Indian stone implements contains a number of specimens 
remarkable alike for large size and superior workmanship, which, to all appear- 
ance, have been used for agricultural purposes by the aborigines of this country; 
and, as no description of similar relics has appeared as yet in any modern Avork 
on North American ethnology or antiquities, a notice thereof might be acceptable 
to all who take an interest in the former condition of the aboriginal inhabitants 
of North America. 

The implements in question are of two distinct forms, represented in the wood- 
cuts, figures 1 and 2, and may be classified, from their shape and probable 
application, as shovels and hoes. The material from which they arc chipped, 
and which I never succeeded in discovering in sitti, is invariably a very hard 
flint of a bluish, gray, or brownish color, and a slightly conchoidal fracture, and 
quite unlike that variety of flint of which the arrow and spear heads occurring 
in the west are usually made. 

• Fig. 1. Fig. 2. 





Fig. 1 represents one of the shovels in my possession. Like all other speci- 
mens of this kind, it is an oval plate, flat on one side and slightly convex on the 
other, the outline forming a sharp edge. It measures above a foot in length, a 
little more than five inches in its greatest breadth, and is about three-quarters 
of an inch thick along the longitudinal diameter. The workmanship exhibits 
an admirable degree of skill. Besides the specimen just described, which was 
discovered in a field near Belleville, St. Clair county, Illinois, I possess two 
others of similar shape and workmanship. The one of these last named I found 
myself within sight of the celebrated Cahokia temple-mound in Illinois, in the 
construction of which it may have assisted centuries ago ; the other was dug up 
in 1861 in St. Louis, while earthworks Avcre built by order of General Fremont 
for the protection of the city against an apprehended attack of the southern 
secessionists. When attached to solid handles, these stone plates certainly con- 
stituted very efficient digging implements. 

Fio-. 2 illustrates the shape of a hoe. This specimen, which was obtanied 
fromli burial-mound near Illinoistown, opposite St. Louis, is seven and a half 
inches long, nearly six inches wide, and about half an inch thick in the middle; 
the round part is worked into a sharp edge. Another specimen of my coUec- 



380 ANTIQUITIES. 

tion, of equal workmanship but inferior in size, was found, after a heavy rain, in 
a garden in the city of Belleville. The fastening to a handle was facilitated by 
the two notches in the upper part, and, in order to constitute a hoe, the handle 
was doubtless attached in such a manner as to form a right or even an acute 
angle with the stone plate. 

If the shape of the described implements did not indicate their original use, 
the peculiar traces of wear Avhich they exhibit would furnish almost conclusive 
evidence of the manner in which they have been employed ; for that part with 
which the digging was done, appears, notwithstanding the hardness of the mate- 
rial, perfectly smooth, as if glazed, and slightly striati-d in the direction in which 
the implement penetrated the ground. This peculiar feature is common to all 
specimens of my collection, and also to the few which I have seen in the pos- 
session of others. They seem to be rather scarce, and merely confined to the 
States bordering on the Mississippi river. Dr. E. II. Davis, of New York, has 
none of them in his excellent and comprehensive collection of Indian relics, and, 
consequently, does not describe or represent them in his work on the " Ancient 
Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," forming the first volume of the Smith- 
sonian publications ; nor am I aware that Mr. Schoolcraft has mentioned them 
in his large work on the North American races, 

A passage in the " History of Louisiana," by Du Pratz, refers, doubtless, to 
the implements described by me as hoes. In speaking of the agricultural pur- 
suits of the Indians of Louisiana, that author observes, they had invented a hoe, 
(pioche.) with the aid of which they prepared the soil for the culture of maize. 
" These Jioes," he says, " are shaped like a capital L ; they cut tcith the edge 
of the lower part, ivhich is entirely fiaty* It is true, he does not mention of 
what material this "lower part" consisted, but we may safely infer that it was 
stone, the substance from which the aborigines of North America manufactured 
nearly all their implements of peace and war. They had no iron, and the 
scanty supplies of native copper, derived from the region of Lake Superior,were 
almost exclusively used for ornamental purposes. 

The fact itself that simple agricultural utensils of Indian origin are occasion- 
ally met Avith is by no means surprising, for we know from the accounts of the 
early writers that many ot the North American tribes raised maize and a few 
other nutritious plants before the arrival of the Europeans on this continent. 
Maize was, however, their principal produce, and that on which they mainly 
depended. In dpscribing the ill-fated Mississippi expedition of De Soto, Gar- 
cilaso de la Vega speaks repeatedly of the extensive maize fields of those Indian 
tribes through whose territories that band of hardy adventurers passed. During 
an invasion of the country of the Senecas, made as early as 1687 under the 
Marquis de Nonville, all their Indian corn was burned or otherwise spoiled, and 
the quantity ^^hus destroyed is said to have amounted to 400,000 minots, or 
1,200,000 bushels. t It is even asserted by Adair, that the colonists obtained 
from the Indians " diff"erent sorts of beaus and peas with which they were before 
entirely unacquainted." | 

From these and other facts, which need not be cited in this place, we learn 
that the. North American Indians generally, though warriors' by disposition and 
hunters by necessity, had, nevertheless, already made some steps towards an 
agricul'-ural state. But the events that happened after the arrival of the whites, 
instead of adding to their improvement, served only to lower their condition, and 
reduced them, finally, to the position of strangers in their own land. 

* Ccs pioches sont faites commo une L capitate ; elles tranchent par les cotes du boul; bas 
qui est tout plat. — Histoire dc la Loulsiane, par M. Le Page du Pratz, (Paris, 1758,) vol. ii, 
p. 176. 

t Documentary Histoiy of New York, vol. i, p. 238. This estimate may be somewhat 
exaggerated. 

t The History of the American Indians, by James Adair, (London, 1775,) p. 408. 



ANTIQUITIES. 381 

ANCIENT FORT AND BURIAL-GROUND. 

Perry City, New York, January 25, 1S64. 

Tlie remains of an ancient fort and burial-ground exist about one-half mile 
northwest of Waterburg, a small village in the town of Ulysses, Tompkins 
county, Xew York. When the country about here was unsettled, some sixty 
years ago, the remains of this monument of a former period was plainly to be 
seen. _ The fort (by which name it is called and generally known about here) 
was situated on a rise of ground some twenty-five or thirty feet above the level 
of a stream of water — Tanghanic creek — large enough, when the country was 
new, to run a saw-mill four or five months of the year, the creek forming the 
southeastern boundary of the lot. 

The " fort lot" contained eight or ten acres, perhaps, and around its eastern 
and northern sides an embankment was thrown up several feet in height. At 
this time it is not more than one foot, or near that; but, before it was ploughed, 
it was considerably higher than at present. At the northwest extremity of 
this embankment a ditch was dug at right angles to it. Around the outside 
of the embankment posts were set, which, perhaps, served the same or a similar 
purpose to that Avhich our fence-posts do now. These posts Avere .set into the 
ground to a depth of three feet, and judging from this we should be led to con- 
clude that they extended above ground eight or ten feet. On the west side 
there were three rows of posts, but no embankment that could be discovered. 
But it is very pfobable that the ditch, of which I have before spoken, extends the 
whole length of the west side, though it can now be- traced but a little way. 
At the northeast and southeast corners there were gate-posts set, where the 
gates were situated, which afforded egress and ingress to the camp. The south- 
east gate was calculated to afford a direct passage to the stream of water before 
mentioned, while the other one led directly to a burial-ground. On the southern 
and southeastern sides there is a bank fifteen or twenty feet in height, and 
pretty steep. Posts were here set part way down the bank so that a bridge 
might be formed over the bank for some purpose besides preventing any one 
from entering from that side. Mr. Jonathan Owen, (an aged former who resides 
near the fort,) from Avhom I have most of my information, thinks that the inhab- 
itants of the enclosure had access to the creek by an underground passage. Let 
this be as it may, it is very evident, from the appearances around, that they 
guarded against enemies on all sides, thus showing that some other party or 
nation Avas hostile to them. 

About sixty years ago everything that I have described was distinctly visible. 
Parched Indian corn was seen in considerable quantities in various places. 
The corn, in fact, was burnt black, and everything else showed that the Avhole 
structure had been destroyed by fire. If it had rotted down or decomposed in 
the ordinary way, it is not probable that the Avooden part of the fabric would 
have remained many years. The part of the posts that entered the ground had 
been burnt to charcoal. It is probable that large quantities of Indian corn 
which were put up for fnture use Avere destroyed by fire. Mr. Owen stated that, 
" after digging through about two inches of loose dirt," he came to a bed of 
about the same thickness of bones, oyster, and clam shells, and a considerable 
quantity of earthenware. The bones Avere principally deer's bones. EeloAV 
this Avas a bed of ashes of nearly the same thickness. The remains of their 
earthenAA^are showed that they had made some progress in the arts. 

"When the embankment around the northern and eastern sides Avas ploughed 
it was found to be composed of a loose mucky earth, very much resembling 
earth formed mostly from rotten Avood. This led Mr. Owen to the conclusion 
that the embankment Avas formed of logs covered Avith earth. Its being covered 
with earth to some depth Avould prevent the logs from taking fire when the 
structure Avas destroyed in that Avay. 



382 ANTIQUITIES. 

A part of the embankment extends into the woods on the north side, and on 
it arc growing several trees, one of them a pine tree 3^ feet in diameter. This 
tree has undoubtedly grown where it is since the embankment was made. The 
tree must be several centuries old. This, and in fact everything around it, 
testifies to the comparatively great antiquity of the fort. 

A few rods to the west of the enclosure, on a knoll, there were two burial- 
grounds, where the dead bodies of the inhabitants were deposited. Sixty years 
ago, according to my father, " a hundred graves could be counted in a row." 
These burial-grounds -were quite extensive, embracing not less than two or three 
acres. In a northeast direction, about fifteen rods from the fort, was another 
burial-ground. The northeast gate, as before mentioned, led directly to this 
one. This burial-ground contained at least half an acre. In all of them the 
bodies Avere as thickly deposited as they conveniently could be. The last 
burial-ground mentioned is still visible, it being in the woods ; but the other two 
have been ploughed, so that they cannot be distinguished at present. In the 
one that is now distinguishable, I have assisted in digging out several graves. 
In some, bones were found; while in others, nothing of the kind were seen. 
Wherever there is a grave tlie earth is sunk a little. In the first one that 
v/as opened we found the thigh-bones, hip-bones, arm-bones, and various other 
smaller ones. A jaw-bone and several teeth were found, but no hair. We 
used nothing but our hands to throw out the earth with ; otherwise, it is prob- 
able, we should have found more things. The earth was very loose, and it was, 
consequently, easily throwiji out. The depth of the grave was about 3J feet. 
One grave, in which several bones were found, was under a root of the stump 
of a large pine tree. This tree was, perhaps, from three to six hundred years 
old, and it is probable that it has grown there since the grave was made. 

All things indicate that these people were buried in a sitting posture. The 
graves are very short, not being more than four feet in length. Also the jaw, 
hip, and thigh bones were all found together, just as they naturally would be if 
the body was buried in a sitting posture. 

Various little trinkets have been found on the " fort-lot" at different times. 
A great many arrow-points have been found there, made of the hardest flint 
stone. Stone hatchets, or axes, have also been found. Several years since, a 
neighbor, Mr. David Farriugton, found a pipe there, probably used for smoking 
tobacco ; the stem was not very long, but of a sufiicient size to admit a wooden 
stem of any length ; the pipe-bowl had the face of a frog formed on it. 

Within three miles of here there arc three other similar forts to the one which 
we have here described. 

DAVID TROWBRIDGE. 



remains of an ancient town in minnesota. 

Itasca, Anoka County, Minnesota, 

November 25, 1863. 

Dear Sir: Presuming that your Institution is the proper one with which 
to file a report of new discoveries, I take the privilege and pleasure to inform 
you that indications are favorable to encourage the belief, that upwards of one 
hundred years ago there existed at the mouth of Crow river, where it empties 
into the Mississippi, 24 miles above the Falls of St. Anthony, a toAvn compris- 
ing at least seven hundred inhabitants. I have commenced collecting the ar- 
ticles that have been found, Avitli the intention of forwarding the same to you if 
you desire me to do so. 

AVe presume that the village was destroyed by fire of an enemy, for these 
reasons : we find the outlines of the buildings forming ridges of earth, under 
which are ashes, indicating fire ; we also find human bones near the surface, 
which leads to the belief that they were not buried. 



ANTIQUITIES. 383 

As to proof of the age of these ruins, trees have been cut down having one 
hundred rings, which were grooving inside of the piles of ashes. 

That they were at least civilized, is shown by our finding the locality of a 
blacksmith's forge, where the cinders, bits of iron, &c., were plenty. Each 
house was furnished with a fireplace of stone, the foundations of which are 
easily found. 

Among the articles I now have, though somewhat decayed, are knives, forks, 
a fish-hook, piece of china bowl, piece of looking-glass, very long and well made 
wrought nails, part of an iron hinge, part of a clay pipe, strips of copper, one 
knife of extra fine quality of steel — has the name of " Pelou" on the blade. 
If among your antiquities you have any cutlery bearing the same mark, it may 
perhaps assist us to ascertain the direction these ancient settlers came from. 

If you deem this information of any value, and will give me any directions 
regarding further explorations and the manner in which you wish the articles 
sent you, I will, as soon as the frost in spring will permit, turn over the ashes 
in several more places, in hopes to find some record to add interest to the dis- 
covery. 

Can you gather any information by examining a jaw-bone of a human skele- 
ton ? I have one I can send, found near the forge. 
I remain yours, most respectfully, in haste, 

0. H. KELLEY. 

P. S. — I am the oldest white settler, with one exception, in this neighborhood, 
having been here since January 1850, and have seen th'e forest cleared from the 
ground Avhere these ruins are found, and the present little town of Dayton 
built up. Senator Eamsey will vouch for my being an old settler here. 



ANCIENT RELICS IN MISSOURI. 

Washington, March 14, 18C4. 

My Dear Sir: I promised you some time ago a description of some ancient 
relics of pottery from the mounds of Missouri, but that promise has remained 
unfulfilled up to this time. 

Accompanying this note are photographs of three vessels : 

1. Front view i of probably a priest, or some official personage, if we re- 

2. Profile view ] gard the head-dress as a badge of office. 

.' -r^ n^ • i of a captive, bound, perhaps, for immolation. 

4. Profile view j ^ ^ ^ 

5. A plain vessel without any ornamentation. 

These vessels are about twelve inches in height and are composed of clay 
slightly burnt, and are without any glazing. The interior is hollow, and the 
orifice in two instances is at the side, and in the other at the top. The thick- 
ness of the crust is about one-fourth of an inch. I regard them as water- 
coolers ; the texture being such as to retain "water for a considerable time, and 
also to allow evaporation from the exterior surface. 

I think you will agree with me that the ancient sculptor exhibited consider- 
able skill in moulding. The proportions of the features are not very grossly 
exaggerated, and he possessed sufficient skill to delineate the traits character- 
istic of his race. Those traits belong not to the North American Indians, but, 
I think, to the Peruvians. The fillet on the head I am disposed to think was 
made of cloth. I hand you specimens of ancient weaving, which I have here- 
tofore described. {Vide Trans. Am. Asso., Albany meeting,) [1855 ?| 

These specimens were taken from mounds in Mississippi county, Missouri, 
by the late Sylvester Sexton, of Chicago, and are now in the possession of his 



384 ANTIQUITIES. 

widow. From Mr. Stevens, who assisted in llic exploration, I drew tlie follow- 
ing particulars : 

There are several mounds scattered throughout this country, but the largest 
group, and that from which these relics were taken, is on section 6, township 
24, range 1 7, extending over about ten acres of ground. The mounds vary from 
10 to 30 feet in heiglit, and many of them, on exph^ration, have yielded relics. 

The most convenient point of approach is from Columbus, Kentucky, being 
about eight miles distant, and about seven miles from the balslle-ground of Bel- 
mont. 

Yours, very truly, 

J. W. FOSTER. 



mound in tennessee. 

Salem, Marion County, Oregon, 

December 12, 1863. 

Sir : We write on a subject of some though not of great moment. That 
subject is this : On a mound, in East Tennessee, on Lick creek, near its junc- 
tion with the Nolechuckey, in Gpeene county, six miles north of Warrensburg. 
It is some twenty-five or more feet high, covers an area of half an acre or more, 
is cone-like or round, is quite steep, and flat on its apex. It is a made mound, 
is of loam, and in the bottom next the creek. There is an excavation near, 
showing, evidently, that the earth removed is that of M'hich is formed the mound. 
This mound is full, so far as examined, of human bones and carbonized wood. 
The bones lay irregularly, and seem to have been thrown in promiscuously. We 
think this a cemetery, or burial of slain in battle. The skeletons are larger than 
our race ; are yellow and firm and strong when disinterred, but soon crumble on 
exposure. The apex is flat and sunken in the centre. Our informant, Mr. 
Isaac W. Bewley, brother to the martyr, Anthony Bcwley, dug down some 
three feet, on top, and came to a burnt, smooth surface, under which, in sinking, 
he found large pieces of charcoal and considerable ashes. Mr. Bewley's father 
settled, or rather bought the place, some fifty years ago. How long it had been 
settled before we are not informed. The cause of our informant digging down 
on its top was from mere curiosity. This mound has no name that we know of. 
We have given you its location, hoping you may make known this, we think, 
important matter. The opening of this mound might lead to more than mere 
conjecture concerning a once enlightened race. The earth seems to have been 
dug and elevated for a toinh. This shows some advance in the race who did it. 
An excavation might reveal important facts. We think the mound should be 
examined. "What has an examination of the lacustrian cities led to ? To im- 
portant results to the archa3ologist. And might not some good result from an 
exhumation of the remains in this mound ? We think so, and therefore urge it. 

We have Avritten this for the cause of science — the light that may flow from 
an examination of this Lick creek mound, near the junction of Lick creek with 
the Nolechuckey. 

And now another matter: We have here some relics of Indians, as stone 
mortars and pestles, arrow points, stone axes, stone scrapers, or knives, &c. 
Would these be of any use to the Smithsonian Institution? If so, please write 
me at your earliest opportunity. 

There are mounds in this country, too, and if you desire it we will write you 
about them. 

We are, &c., 

A. F. DANILSEN. 

Joseph IIenry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington city, D. G. 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM THE GERMAN 
PERIODICAL, "AUS DER NATUR," &c. 



The idolatry of classical antiquity finds its chief antagonism in the natural 
sciences. It would be easy to show how many illusions, nestling in the heads 
of the admirers of the olden time, have been dispelled by modern chemistry 
alone ; and, although our present purpose is to deal with two objects of sub- 
ordinate importance, yet these also serve to show how very broad is the line of 
separation between our own times and the remote ages, to whose languages and 
ideas so much of the time and training of our youth are commonly devoted. 

The colors of azure and purple were amoi\g the most highly priced as well 
as the most highly prized productions of antiquity. The former was sold for 
its weight in gold, and the latter was especially reserved for the noble and the 
powerful; its use was in some ages even forbidden to all beneath those of the 
highest rank on pain of death. Science and art have wrought here a striking 
change ; being no longer limited to the direct gifts of nature, we are able, from 
the most apparently unpromising raw material, to furnish for the use of the 
whole community what could then be but scantily produced for the ruling few 
The contrast is certainly suggestive. 

As early as three hundred and fifteen years before the Christian era, Theoph- 
rastus drew a distinction between natural and artificial azure, the latter of 
which, he tells us, was manufactured in Egypt. It seems most probable, how- 
ever, that the terms natural and artificial indicate in this case only the greater 
or the less degree of care with which the color was prepared from the beautiful 
stone which we call Liapis lazuli, to which the ancients gave the name of sap- 
phire. While in some cases the stone was merely reduced to a fine powder, in 
others, probably, the coloring matter was more carefully separated, as is done 
in our own day. 

The Lapis lazuli, or sapphire, is found in the least accessible parts of Little 
Bucharest, Thibet, China, and Siberia, in layers or strata of granite or limestone. 
Of old, as at the present day, it was polished and wrought as a gem, and it is 
almost the only member of the large f imily of gems that has an intrinsic value. 
This distinction it owes to the fact that, in addition to its great beauty, it yields 
for the use of the painter one of his most beautiful colors, which, moreover, is 
unaffected by air or heat ; that color is ultramarine. 

As lately as the commencement of the present century, ultramarine, or azure 
blue, was not simply a fine powder of the gem, but the result of a long and 
troublesome process. The stone was first broken into small pieces, and even 
this first step in the process was no easy one, the stone being exceedingly hard. 
The pieces, of the size of a hazelnut, were cleaned by means of lukewarm water, 
then made red-hot, and afterwards slacked in a mixture of water and acetic 
acid. The cohesion of the particles is so great that this process must be repeated 
from six to ten times before the mineral can be transformed into a fine powder. 
It is afterwards rendered still finer by trituration with the muller stone of the 
painter, having been first mixed with water, honey, and dragon's blood, then 
treated' with the ley of the ashes of the grapevine, and finally dried. The pow- 
der is next compounded into a mass with turpentine, rosin, wax, and linseed oil, 
25 s 



38G PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

melted together, and kneaded under water. By this process the fine powder i9 
washed out, and in time siidvs as a sediment in tlie liquid. The mineral yields 
not more than one-fourth of its weight of coloring material. 

Up to a very recent time Italy continued to be the chief, as it had been the 
original, manufactory of ultramarine, and thence the finest shades were derived. 
The tediousness, the difficulty, and, consequently, the costliness in both time 
and money of the old process of producing ultramarine from the Lapis lazuli, 
naturally excited great desire among scientific chemists to find some cheaper 
and readier artificial means of producing that color, doubly precious to the 
painter for its beauty and its permanency ; but so invariable from different 
causes v.^ere the failures of all attempts in that directioii that the solution of the 
problem was well nigh despaired of, when hope was as suddenly as accidentally 
revived. In 1818 it happened that in France a sandstone furnace for the melting 
of soda was taken down, and a beautiful colored substance, never seen there be- 
fore, was discovered. It was remarked, that formerly the furnace for the melting 
of soda had always been constructed, not of sandstone, but of brick. The mass 
of matter thus discovered was examined by Vauqueliu, who observed in its 
appearance and composition points of great resemblance with ultramarine ; btit 
still no clue offered itself to guide him through the perplexities of the investi- 
gation. Similar observations were made in other soda manufiilctories, as, for 
instance, by Hei-raann, in Schoubeck, Avho had thrown away above a hundred 
weight of the colored mass found in a similar furnace when the latter was pulled 
down ; and by Kuhlmann, at Lille. We shall not venture to decide whether or 
not the " blue material," mentioned by Goethe in his " Italian Travels," (1781,) 
as being taken from limekilns in Sicily, and used for the adornment of altars 
and other objects, was homogeneous with this product of the soda furnace, and 
whether both were, in fact, an artificially and accidentally produced ultramarine. 

The question still remained uhanswercd, how was this substance in the case 
of each furnace produced ? In what did it originate 1 At length, in 1828, the 
solution of this important question Avas found and published by Professor C 
Gmelin, of Tuebingen. During eighteen years he had been occupied with 
researches on the "Lapis lazuli" and its kindred minerals, the products of the 
volcanic eruptions of Vesuvius. Reflecting on the recent circumstance, he was 
led to believe that, notwithstanding there had been so many unsuccessful 
attempts, the production of an artificial ultramarine Avas not an impossibility. 
Furtlier study of the natural coloring substance disclosed to him the sulphurous 
portion of the components, and holding that clue he at length succeeded in 
producing a most brilliant ultramarine. 

At about the same time, another German chemist, the well-known " Doebe- 
reiner," had a glimpse of the true nature of the coloring principle of ultramarine. 
He was the fii'St positively to assert that it was to be attributed to sulphur alone. 
He obtained, however, a mere glimpse of this beautiful discovery, other occupa- 
tions preventing him from following it up. A very few more experiments, and 
he would have been completely in possession of it. Gmelin was scarcely more 
successful, though the absence of this additional jewel in his scientific crown 
was owing to a diff"ereut cause. It is not in the nature of a true savant to 
place his talent at usury, or, in plainer terms, "to make money by it;" though 
now and then doubtless, in these days of extravagant projects, it is not impos- 
sible to find a savant at the head of some speculating manufactory, to the 
success of which his reputation gives a substantial guarantee. Men of science 
of this kind are certainly much souglit after by industrial speculators, yet the 
exceptions do not greatly affect my assertion as to the general disinterestedness 
in this respect of the German savant.* He, for the most part, when, in the 

* This characteristic is by no means confined to German savants, but is stared by most 
men of science in all countries. 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 387 

course of his researches and experiments, a discovery has been made which may- 
he rendered available for utilitarian purposes, forbears to make a secret of it, 
publishes it without reserve, and leaves the pecuniary harvest, large or small, to 
be reaped by others. Is this because the enthusiastic savant has so little worldly 
wisdom, or so exclusive a desire of reputation ? Gmclin's oAvn words may, per- 
haps, help the reader in forming a reply to this question, lie says : " I have 
thus mentioned all the circumstances which must be kept in view in the man- 
ufacture of artificial ultramarine, and I have also added some hints for the use 
of those who may make it their object to manufacture this color on a larger 
scale. J have now only to desire that others in like manner may unreservedly 
publish their experience on the subject, so that the production of this article 
may, as early as possible, attain to the highest degree of perfection. We can- 
not, it is true, when an important technical discovery has been made, which 
promises large profits, foirly blame any one for keeping it a secret until he has 
achieved that great and justifiable aim of all mankind, security against want ; 
but beyond this, no one has a right to maintain secrecy that he may secure 
gain. And it is very much to be regretted that by the withholding of so many 
discoveries (often buried with those who make and conceal them) science has 
been hindered in its progress, and an obstacle thrown in the way of the noblest 
object of man, that, namely, of increasing knowledge and diffusing civilization." 
Such, literally, was the practice of Gmelin. While at Paris, in 1827, and pre- 
vious to the publication of his discovery, he xinreservedly communicated his 
ideas on the artificial production of ultramarine to several chemists, especially 
to Gay Lussac. And, behold ! on the 4th of February, 1828, Gary Lussac made 
a report to the French Academy that Guimet, at Toulouse, had succeeded in 
manufacturing ultramarine of all kinds. Did the discovery originate in the open 
and disinterested communication of Gmelin, or did it not 1 Who shall decide ? 
Guimet, it is but just to say, warmly defended himself against such a suspicion ; 
he affirms that he was prompted to his experiments by the examinations of 
Lapis lazuli, made by Desormes and Clement, and claims that he had produced 
artificial ultramarine before Gmelin's visit to Paris. 

W^hether the method of Guimet is essentially different from that of Gmelin 
cannot be determined, for, while the latter published his discoveries with every 
particular, Guimet, on the contrary, has kept his method a secret to the present 
day. In so far as profit is concerned, Guimet, it must be confessed, has main- 
tained the advantage over Gmelin, and France OA'er Germany ; for Guimet forth- 
with made his discovery lucrative to himself and others. As early even as the 
same year, 1828, he had erected a manufactory at Paris for the production of 
artificial ultramarine, which he sold at two dollars and sixty-six and a half cents 
per pound, while the natural article was a little more than double that price. 
Guimet succeeded in having his product adopted for the painting of the beau- 
tiful ceilings of the museum of Charles X, and thenceforth his fortune Avas made. 
In 1834 the price had risen to from four to five and one-third dollars per pound, 
but in 1844 had again fallen, and ranged from two and one-sixth to two and one- 
third per pound, though the best quality for oil painting was still sold at six 
dollars and forty cents. The cheapness of the ordinary article enhanced the 
demand, and the product of Guimet's factory speedily rose from twenty thou- 
sand to one hundred and twenty thousand pounds, of which twenty thousand 
pounds were exported to foreign countries. Not only did Guimet amass im- 
mense wealth ; he was the recipient also of many public honors. From the 
French "Society for the Encouragement of Industry" he received a premium 
of 5,000 francs, and medals from various French industrial exhibitions ; and 
this as early as 1834, when the real importance of this eminent discovery could 
have been scarcely appreciated. In 1851, at the London exhibition, Guimet 
received the large gold medal. 



388 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

In Germany the manufacture of ultramarine proceeded at a far sloAVCr and 
less profitable rate, though the directions published by Gmcliu would have 
amply sufficed for manufacturing on a. much larger scale. He already kne^y 
that the proportions of silicious earth, natron, and potter's clay might vary to a 
certain extent without at all affecting the result; and he had also found that 
the pr()duction of artificial ultramarine requires two distinct operations, viz: 

1. The production of the so-called green ultramarine; and, 

2. The transmutation of the green into thn blue article by roasting the former, 
while allowing the access of air. 

This latter necessity he was taught by the accidental bursting of a crucible. 
His observation of this accident enabled him to master the whole process, and 
conduct it to any desirable issue. To the manufacture on an extensive scale, 
however, the conditioTi insisted upon by Gmelia of perfect or chemical purity in 
the silicious earth and the potte.'s clay employed, continued to present an 
embarrassing obstacle on account of the delay and difficulty in bringing the 
material to that state. 

It is true that he had himself raised the question whether the production of 
the two expensive materials, both of them bchig components of potter's clay, 
might not be dispensed with, and he experimenti'd upon various specimens of 
tolerably pure clay containing the maximum of 4J per cent, of iron. But he 
considered the results of the experiments unsatisfactory, on account of the 
presence of even such a proportion of iron. From a porcelain clay containing 
very little iron he obtained, indeed, a very beautiful ultramarine, which he con- 
sidered quite fit for oil painting, especially for landscapes. But even this pro- 
duct could by no means be compared to the natural and most beautiful kind. 
The artificial article always retained a scarcely perceptible tinge of green and 
gray; while the positive red, on which depends the peculiar brilliancy of the 
natural ultramarine, was wanting. This difference was especially noticeable 
when both pigments were rubbed in oil. The circumstance that Gmelin aspired 
to the highest excellence, and would not content himself with mere mediocrity, 
was aii obstacle to the introduction of this article into German industry, and 
restricted its use when it was introduced. Still, the first German manui'actory 
on the principle of Gmelin's process commenced working in 1S34, under the 
management of Leverkus, of Wermelskirchen, and very soon occasioned a 
great change alike in the price and the popularity of the article. 

In 1832, the celebrated French chemist, Dumas, in his "Manual of Chemis- 
try," had expressed the opinion that chemical purity of materials might very 
well be dispensed with in the manufacture of artificial ultramarine, and that 
common clay might be used, provided it did not contain too much iron. Pro- 
fessor Engelhardi, of the Polytechnic School, Nuremberg, while translating the 
works of Dumas into German, was especially impressed by that statement, 
and was induced thereby to make new experiments, but his labors were termi- 
nated by death before he had obtained any positive and satisfactory results. 
His assistant and successor, Leykauf, continued the deceased professor's experi- 
ments, and was fortunate enough to succeed, where all previously had failed. 
Bi^' means of potter's clay, Glauber's salt, and coal, he manufactured the most 
beautiful ultramarine, in the renowned manufactuory of Ley Rauf, Heyne & Co., 
at Nuremberg; and in a very few years the firm counted its wealth by millions. 
Nowhere else has this branch of industry acqixired such an extension ; being 
conspicuous even among the diversified activities of Nuremberg, and justifying, 
tli:^refore, a brief description in this article. 

In the vicinity of the Nuremberg railroad depot, the , attention of the ob- 
sorvant traveller is pretty sure to be attracted by a stately and spacious mass 
of buildings of white and red sandstone. The long rows of structures, with 
then- streets and yards, cover a space of some eighteen aci-es. Surrounded as the 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 389 

wliole is by a rampart, one might at first fancy himself to be looking upon a 
fortress. But the smoke from numerous tall chiumeys would speedily correct 
this error and betray the abode of ingenious and successful industry. It is to 
be regretted that visitors are rigidly excluded from the interior of this industrial 
hive ; a useless exclusion, as the manufacture of ultramarine can no longer by 
any possibility be considered a secret. The visit of the King of Bavaria, in 
1855, to this efj[ually interesting and important factory, so far lifted the veil 
ihat we possess something like a reliable description, instead of the strange sur- 
mises which were previously in circulation Avith respect to it. On a first glance 
at the exterior we perceive that the vast erection has been built piecemeal, ad- 
ditions having been made from time to time to meet the necessities of the increas- 
ing business. It required the long period of seventeen years to render the 
wl^cde what it now is — a structure heterogeneous, indeed, in appearance, but 
really possesshig the highest conceivable adaptation to the purposes fin- which 
it was designed. 

Three rows of the buildings are devoted solely to the preparation of the raw 
material, the motive power consisting of two steam engines coujoiutly possessing 
a thirty-eight horse-power. So various and well contrived arc the stampers, 
crushing and sifting machines, &c., which are set in motion by these various 
works, that a small amount only of human labor is required to furnish abundant 
raw material to employ elsewhere a vast number of hands. 

Groups of buildings surrounding those just mentioned contain water-works, 
and consist of five divisions of vaulted galleries, supported by iron pillars. 
Near these are the drying stoves. Close by these three principal divisions are 
the buildings for storing, packing, and weighing, and die clerks' oQices and re- 
pairing shops. Here is a scene of contiu-ual activity, the human labor being 
greatly aided by a high-pressure steam engine of twenty-horse power. The 
communication betwecir these various and extensive buildings is facilitated by 
a railroad six thousand feet, or considerably above au English mile, in length, 
crossing from east to west, and from north to south, and similar tram roads of 
timber connect the buildings in the upper stories. The iron railroad leads ta 
the depot of the public railroad ; thus placing the fiictory in easy and speedy 
communication with the principal high roads of G-ermany. The weight annu- 
ally carried on this little railroad amounts to nearly 2,000 tuns ; about one-tenth 
of which consists of the manufactured article. 

About 200 laborers are constantly employed in this establishment, and it is 
greatly to the credit of the proprietors, Zeitoner & Heyne, that they have es- 
tablished a savings bank, a sick fund, and a fund for the support of widows and 
orphans. 

We have spoken of the remarkable fall in the price of ultramarine. Compe- 
tition and improved machinery and modes of operating have effected so much 
in that respect, that the whole price of the best article at the present time does 
not exceed that paid fur the mere grinding, only eighteen years ago. This con- 
tinual fall of price necessarily compels a corresi)onding expansion of the manu- 
facture and sale to compensate for the deficit in piofit. On this account scarcely 
a year passes without the addition of new buildings to this vast establishment. 
Considerably more than 5,000 tons are manufactured here yearly, at the average 
cost of from 25 to 37 cents per pound. The cheapness and exceeding beauty 
of the color cause it to be profitably and largely exported to France, in spite 
of the absurdly heavy import duty levied upon it there. 

What we have said of this single manufactory, vast as it is, gives but a very 
inadequate idea of the extent and importance of the ultramarine manufacture 
in Germany. At the Industrial Exhibition at Munich no fewer than seven ex- 
tensive manufacturers received medals, and two were honorably mentioned. 

At the Parisian exhibition the French manufacturers did not dispute the ex- 
cellence of the German ultramarine, or the exquisite Ijcauty of its colors. But 



390 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

tliey complained tliat it -was of so many different shades that the various trades 
and professions whicli use the article were unnecessarily embarassed in the 
choice among so many gradations of color ; for while the German manufacturers 
exhibited twenty different tints, the French furnished but eight. To this Ger- 
mans rc])Iied, that in supplying so many different shades of the color they but 
compliixl with the public wish. Yet, nothing can be plainer than that in every- 
thing relative to color and cognate matters of taste, it is not the jtublic which 
prescribes, but the artist, who elicits the artificial want. It was Phidias who 
created the Atlienian taste for the surpassing beauty of the Phidian sculpture. 

Up to 1849, France had only two manufactories of ultramarine. In that year 
a third was added, in Alsace, (Zuber & Co., at Rixheim,) which deserves men- 
tion with that of Guimct, who still sustains his long-established reputation. 
To such an extent is the manufacture of p;iper-liangings carried on at Rixheim, 
that the manufjxcture of colors might appear a merely accessory and subordi- 
nate branch. But such is not the fact ; for, besides supplying the home demand, 
that factory exports to a very large amount. As long ago as 1849, the estab- 
lishment employed 500 laborers, at an expense of $43,333. And the motive 
power consisted of 44 machines, exerting, in the aggregate, a sixty .two horse 
power. 

As mentioned above, Gmelin's mode of using only the very purest raw 
material has been abandoned. But, though the ultramarine 'mamifactured on 
his method was undoubtedly more costly, it is no less certain that it was also 
far superior in color to all other sorts of ultramarine. Economical manufacture 
is now sought in a variety of ways. A white German clay found in many parts 
of the country, and known to the trade under the name of "lanziu," is the 
most commonly nmde use of. White porcelain earth is preferable on account 
of its greater purity. A small portion of magnesia and lime is of no conse- 
quence; but if iron be present in greater proportion than one per cent., the utmost 
care is requisite to produce an even tol(>rablc color. All foreign matters of a 
tangible kind are carefully removed by repeated washings ; the clay is then 
dried, made red-hot, and reduced to a fine powder in a mill or stamper. These 
preparatory processes, simple as they appear to be, are in reality of great im- 
portance, and the mechanical contrivances for rendering them perfectly effectiA'-e 
are among the most ingenious, as well as the most costly, of all the machinery 
employed in the manufacture. To the ground or crushed mass there arc now 
added sulphuric natron, soda, sulphur, and coal or charcoal ; the whole having 
been previously reduced to the finest possible powder. If coal instead of char- 
coal be used, such must be selected as after combustion leaves the smallest 
quantity of ashes. Sometimes rosin is used instead of coal, and, being discom- 
posed by the heat, answers all the purpose of the mineral. Heated together, 
these various materials become fused into one mass. Upon the process thus far 
described, and, especially upon the exactly proper proj)ortion of each of the 
materials, the result greatly depends. 

With regard to one point in the procedure there is a wide difference between 
the French and the German manufacture. In the latter, Glauber salt or a mix- 
ture of that salt and natron is always used; in the former, only soda. The 
German mode is the more economical, because the sulphuric acetical natron is 
by the agency of the coal converted into sulphuric natrium, and thus the sul- 
phur can be wholly or partially dispensed with if soda be added at the same 
time. It is true that a somewhat greater quantity of coal will be required, 
but there can be no comparison between its price and that of sulphur. As to 
the result, it does not seem that the one or the other method is very greatly 
preferable. 

There is great difference in the proportions of the several components of this 
mixture ; but the following may serve as a general rule : 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 391 

GERMAN METHODS. 

I'cvrts. 

I. White potter's clay, free from water 100 

Glauber salt, free from \vat(;r S.5 to 100 

Coal 17 

II. White potter's clay, free from water 100 

Glauber salt, free from water 41 

Soda, free from water 41 

Sulphur 13 

Coal ; ; ; ;; n 

FRENCH METHOD. 

White plotter's clay, free from water ] 00 

Soda, free from water 100 

Sulphur GO 

Coal 11 

The next operation to be performed is that of what is called the over-glow- 
ing of this mixture. It is placed in melting pots of potter's clay, formed to 
withstand intense heat, and slowly dried till burnt. Absolute exclusion of air 
being indispensable, it is especially requisite that the meltiug pots be so tempered 
that they will neither burst nor become softemid in the intense heat requisite 
to burn the mass within them. They may vary from 4 to 12 inches in height, 
with the like diameter. When filled up they are packed one on the other in a 
furnace resembling in form a flattened brickkiln. They occupy the whole 
centre of the surface, while the space on each side of them is used for the burn- 
ing of similar pots. The furnace being properly filled, the mouth is walled up, 
and the firing commences. The burning continues during from seven to eight 
hours up to three days, according to the size, construction, and contents of the 
furnace. Fuel must be added till the mass is thoroughly incorporated and 
begins to melt. Upon this operation everything depends. If it be not prop- 
erly conducted, the best and most accurately proportioned raw material will 
not yi'eld a profitable result. The temperature must be of a certain height, 
which is to be ascertained beforehand by trials in a small testing oven. It 
approaches a bright red or incipient white heat, and must be kept at the same 
point during a specified time; and it msist be mule to heat the whole mass as 
thoroughly as possible. When the furnace is cooled, the glowed mass is taken- 
out and cooled with water, and then repeatedly washed and drained to renu)v 3 
any salt still remaining. The now dried and spongy mass is next removed to 
the mill and broken and pulverized to the utmost possible degree of fineness ; 
the powder is repeatedly washed with water, and after being thoroughly dried, 
again ground and nicely sifted. It lias now reached the first stage of ultra- 
marine, or what is called green ultramarine, and is ready either for sale or for 
transmutation into the blue colored or proper ultramarine. Hitherto, however, 
the green ultramarine has been in no very great request, as compared with- the 
blue. It varies through several shades, from apple green to blue green; and ia 
beauty it is far excelled by the copper color and even by the cobalt. Its chief, 
if not its only recommendations are its cheapness and its innoxiousness ; and 
those qualities, important as they undoubtedly are, seem insufficient to counter- 
balance its want of brilliancy. 

The next important operation is the transmutation of the green into the blu-^ 
color. Here there is but one cause for anxiety. To obtain a perfectly beautiful 
blue, we must previously have a perfectly beautiful green. The latter is roasted 
with sulphur, air being freely admitted during the process. It sometimes hap- 
pens that the change of color takes place without any interference. The sul- 
phuric natrium contained in the mass causes spontaneous ignition on the admis- 



392 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

sion of air, and wlicn it ceases to glow we have still sulphuric acid present, and 
the green color is thus self-changed into a beautiful blue. 

As to this process also of transmuting the green color into blue the French 
and Germans have their peculiar methods. The Germans use t:5mall iron cyl- 
inders for roasting ; the French small hearth ovens, into which, however, the 
flame cannot enter. Hitherto cylinders of potter's clay have not been adopted, 
though we doubt not that they would serve just as well, and be even more 
durable. The cylinder being filled with from twenty-five to thirty pounds of 
green ultramarine, a vane (Flugelvvelle) is set in motion so that the contents of 
the cylinder may not be burnt without being first thoroughly roasted within. 
A pound of sulphur is now passed through an upper opening into the cylinder, 
and while the wind-vane continues in motion the sulphur is gradually consumed. 
The addition of sulphur may be continued as long as the color improves in 
purity and brilliancy, but care must be taken not to continue it too long. After 
the color has been thus roasted it must once more be washed, dried, ground, 
and sifted. 

The French method of roasting possesses this advantage, that, by allowing 
a freer accession of air, the green mass is the more speedily transmuted into 
blue. But, on either the French or German method, a large quantity of sul- 
phuric acid escapes, which renders the factory a nuisance to its neighbors, 
while, were that quantity of sulphuric acid preserved, it would suflice for the 
production of all the Glauber salt used in the manufacture. 

The quality of the green color is the rule and test of that of the blue ; but 
something of its intensity also depends upon the manner in which it is ground — 
the finer it is powdered the brighter and clearer it becomes. But not all kinds 
ai'e of equal beauty ; lighter tones of color are frequently obtained without there 
having been any appreciable difference in the mixture of the raw materials. 
From these lighter and darker shades a medium kind is obtained by mixing 
them together, and adding other white or light materials. Where this admix- 
ture is resorted to, equal tones of color are out of the question ; the shades vary 
from the softest sky blue to a glowing, almost ruddy, dark blue — the former 
generally forming a more compact powder, the latter a more loose and smooth 
one. 

The principle upon v/hich the blue color of the ultramarine is dependent is 
as undecided now as it was in the time of Gmelin. It is much to be regretted 
that his analysis of the Lapis lazuli, which so much conduced towards the manu- 
facture of artificial blue ultramarine, has not been repeated and followed up. 
The foundation which he laid in scientific experiment has been built upon only 
in the way of the merest empiricism; and the success Avhich has thus, in a 
merely monetary point of view, been obtained by the manufactures, has led 
not a few of them to imagine — how vainly we need not say — that henceforth 
they are quite independent of science. They forget that practical men, how- 
ever ably they may profit by what science has taught them, do literally nothing 
towards clearing up what science itself has yet to learn. It was the science of 
Gmelin which alone laid the foundation for the manufactui'e of ultramarine as 
it at present exists ; but who shall ])retend to limit the improvements that 
might be made in that manufixcture could another Gmelin arise to discover 
the principle on which the coloring of the ultramarine depends? Attempts 
have, indeed, often been made to lift the veil from this mystery, but hitherto 
they have been so made that it was impossible for them to succeed. Analysis 
has followed analysis, regardless of the fiict that the ultramarine trade is 
not a prc|Daration of determinate composition from which imiform results call 
be obtained. However accurately the operator may have treated the clay 
with water and sulphur, does not the color imbibe some portion of silicious 
matter 1 Nay, has not each specimen of clay dificrent elements and different 
proportions of elements in its own composition 1 How are we to tell, even 



PUKPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 393 

from the most skilful and laborious analysis, wliicli is the essential product 
and which the accidental ? Which the portion which conduces to the pro- 
duction of the color, and Avhich the portion that, to a greater or less extent, 
limits its quantity and diminishes its brilliancy ? The time spent in analyses, 
thus inevitably indecisive, may be considered as completely thrown away. In 
truth, those analyses have rather raised questions than settled them. The in- 
fluence of iron, for instance, upon the production and the color, which long ago 
was considered a settled tact, is now relegated into the realm of doubt. There 
seems good reason to believe that sulphur has a chief, if not the sole, part in 
coloring the green and blue ultramarine ; but how — through what combinations ? 
The material itself opposes difficulties to our clear view of the subject ; and the 
difficulties arc increased by the coincidence of two chemical processes, and by 
the facile decomposition of the material the moment it is attacked by reagents. 
Finally, we are but too imperfectly acquainted with the affinities of sulphur 
and the recently discovered sulphuric acids for the alkalies. This power- 
lessness of analysis to pronounce definite judgment has necessarily given 
rise to various opinions, founded not upon facts, but upon fancies, and, a3 
usual in such cases, the opinion founded upon f\incy has been more per- 
emptorily asserted than the knowledge founded upon fact. Of the green ultra- 
marine, we have seen it positively asserted, though without even an attempt at 
proof, that it is a simple combination of sulphur natrium, while another disputant 
is not less positive that it is a mixtuie of blue ultramarine with some yellow 
substance, the elimination of which turns the green to blue. Others assert that 
the acid has transformed the sulphur natrium of the green ultramarine into a 
sulphuric metal, combined with other and unascertained matter; that oxydi- 
zation has taken place, and the sulphur has united with the undocomposed 
sulphuric natrium. According to others the oxygen acts upon the sulphur and 
forms a sub-sulphuric acid, or some other of the recently dit^covcred sulphuric 
acids. In short there has been much disputation, but no approach to a conclu- 
sion which can be relied upon. To arrive at such a conclusion we must, as 
our starting point, first study the affinities of aluminum and sulphuric natrium. 

All that we are thus far warranted in saying is simply this, that ultramarine 
contains silicious earth, potter's clay, natron, and sulphur. But, what else ] 
That is the real question at issue. The silicious earth is, if not superfluous, at 
least inoperative, as regards the production of the blue color ; but, though not 
itself the cause of the blue color, it at least supplies the fire-proof quality. Too 
much of it, undoubtedly, is injurious to the color. If the silicious acid be not 
fixed by natron, the blue color is either very much faded, or wholly destroyed, 
and the ultramarine is rendered unfit for the purposes of the porcelain painter. 
The artificial ultramarine has still another great advantage over the natural. 
While the latter could only be used for oil paintings, the former can be used in 
every art in which the blue color is indispensable, and consequently it has, to 
a very considerable extent, supplanted cobalt, litmus, and Prussian blue. 
Even when the ultramarine commanded a far higher price than smalt, (the lat- 
ter selling, in France, at 47 to 50 cents per pound, while the former could not 
be purchased for less than from $1 62 to %\ 73,) it was found that ultramarine 
was the cheaper article, for the simple reason that one pound of ultramarine 
Avould do the work of ten pounds of cobalt blue. 

Ultramarine is a reliable color for oil painting or for painting on glass, for 
tapestry, and for paper-hangings in patterns, and for the coloring of soaps, 
candles, &c., &c., and it is not easy to over-estimate its importance in printing 
on wool, cotton, linen, or silk. To the French manufacturer, Blondin, belongs 
the credit of having been the first to use ultramarine in cotton printing. For 
six years he kept his application a secret ; but, in 1S44, Dolfus, a cotton manu- 
facturer from Alsace, visited the French exhibition and made himself master of 
the process. Since tlleu, as is said in the report of the French exhibition of 



394 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

1849, "Guimot's mettotl Las travelled round the world, supplanting all tlic blue 
colors which had been previously employed by the cottou-printer." It must 
be confessed, however, that this statement is not quite exact, for the manufac- 
turers still experienced some difficulty in using ultramarine. At first the color 
was, for the most part, not sufiiciently fine, and consequently it aftected both 
the spreading- knife and the rollers. That difficulty was obviated by the use 
of albumen, (the whites of eggs,) which thus became a by no means unimport- 
ant article of trade. It is used to condense, and to aid in spreading, the color, 
but requires some slight admixture of oil to prevent the decomposition which 
the albumen, pure and simple, was found to produce. 

Ultramarine is used not only to produce a blue, but also a white. Every 
housewife well knows that blue of some kind must be used to counteract that 
yellowish tinge which Ihien and cotton goods acquire when Avashed. This use 
of the blue color is familiarly called nshig the blue-bag, but using the whitening 
bag Avould, in truth, be the more appropriate phrase. As a general thing the 
blue-bag is used far too freely. The effect should not be, as it generally is, 
to leave a blue tinge, but only to neutralize that yellow tinge with which we 
unavoidably associate the idea of imperfect cleansing. Ultramarine is also of 
important service in restoring linen and cotton yarns and fabrics to good color — 
from two to three pounds of the color sufficing to restore fifty pieces of linen. 
From ten to fifteen ounces are sufficient for the perfect bleaching of twenty 
pounds of yarn, and so efiective is it in small quantities, and therefore so cheap, 
that even whitewashers use it to give increased brightness and cleanness to 
their white. 

It was formerly considered, on toxicological grounds, that the use of ultra- 
marine in whitening sugar was objectionable. We need here only so for ad- 
vert to the discussions of the public journals upon that point as to say that 
two pounds and a half of ultramarine suffice to bleach fifty tons of sugar, being 
just -^j^ grain to the pound, a proportion in which even that deadly corrosive, 
arsenic, Avould be entirely innocuous. Whether the sulphuric-hydrogen gas, 
which is liberated by the contact of the ultramarine in the sugar with the acid 
in wine, be offensive, is a question Avhich we leave to the olfactories of the 
chemist to decide. How far ultramarine is, or may be, adulterated, chemists, 
we believe, have not, as yet, determined. Manufacturers maintain that it is 
not merely right, but even necessary, to mix potter's clay and gypsum with 
ultramarine, in order to get a lighter color; and to us it seems that, on that 
point at least, the manufacturer is a better judge than the chemist. The pur- 
chaser well knows that such admixture is made, and for what purpose, so that, 
whether right or wrong, there is, at all events, no deception ; but if be wishes 
no such admixture in the ultramarine which he purchases, a simple and facile test 
of the quality is at hand. Adulteration is present if the color be not entirely 
discharg(>d by strong acids, or if it change color when boiled in a ley of potash. 
The adulteration in this latter case has been made by organic matters, for the 
purpose of producing the fiery brilliancy of the natural ultramarine. If, to be 
thus tested, the ley assume a greenish tinge, the ultramarine contains a super- 
fluous amount of sul])hur natrium ; and if the ultramarine adheres in hard clots 
or lumps the salts have not been sufficiently washed from it. When mere ap- 

f)carance is alone relied on as a criterion, the judgment, however practiced, is 
iable to be mistaken, for there is no other color which afibrds so much scope 
for visual deception. 

There arc two qualities to be regarded in the genuine ultramarine — the color- 
ing and the covering quality — which maintain no direct ratio one to the other. 
The coloring quality may be tested by mixing one part of ultramarine with 
ten parts of any white color — white lead, for instance, or clay, or gypsum — and 
then closely observing the tone of the mixture. These trials should never 
be omitted by pm-chascrs, for in two ultramarines, whiclf to the sight appear 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 395 

exactly alike, there may be a difference, iu both brilliaucy and durability, of 
from one to two hundred per cent. Another important question is thi?; : llow 
much mordant docs the particular ultramarine require ? Nor is this important 
only in those great factories where the mordants are a considerable item of cx- 
penr^e, for the artist also should be aware that every addition of mordant di- 
minishes the clearness of the color. The less mordant the finer color, and vice 
ver.sa. 

It admits of no doubt that from remote antiquity the art of coloring of the 
raiment with which mm invested himself had acquired a certain degree of 
proficiency. Pliny, though he gives no particulars of the processes, yet assures 
as that the ancients were well acquainted with the use of mordants, by which 
fixity is given to colors which otherwise would gradually change by successive 
gradations, or disappear altogether from the dyed fabric. Of those mordants 
he mentions human urine, ammonia, and certain salts, including rock salt and 
soda, as serving to give at once brilliancy and fixity of color to spun and woven 
stuffs. And in another passage he intimates a still more advanced knowledge 
of the art of dyeing as practiced by the ancients. " In Egypt," he says, 
" cloths are dyed in a quite peculiar manner. The cloth is first thoroughly 
cleansed and then successively dipped into one or more solutions, and finally 
into the fluid color for Av^hich the previously used solution has so great an affin- 
ity that the cloth is dyed as permanently as instantaneously. What is most 
remarkable about this process is the fact, that though the dye-vat contains dye 
of only one color, the web of cloth is dyed of one, two, or several colors, ac- 
cording to the kind of solutions used for the preliminary washings or dippings. 
And further, not only is the cloth so permanently dyed that the color cannot 
be washed out, but the cloth itself is rendered stronger and more durable." 

This language of Pliny shows, that our knowledge of the uses and effects of 
various mordants to heighten and fix color, and rather to improve than to injure 
the fabric of the stuff to be dyed, though doubtless much indebted to modern 
chemistry, is, substantially, as old as chemistry itself. In the case of ancient 
Egypt, such a knowledge need scarcely excite our surprise, that antique and 
mysterious land having been the source of the chemical science of at least 
all the people of antiquity. As nature herself suggested colored ornamenta- 
tion, and the fugitive qualities of the earlier dyestuffs forced chemistry into 
the discovery of mordants, so the lack of a cultivated taste made the glaring 
scarlet and tawdry yellow the favorites of the earlier ages ; just as, in our day, 
the same lack or imperfection of taste is apt to recommend those vivid hues 
to the favor of the childish and the unrefined. Next to the Egyptians the 
people of ancient India evinced most skill in the art of coloring.^ Job speaks 
with great admiration of the brilliant colors of Indi;in cloths. There is at this 
day iu the museum of the Industrial ^^ociclij at Paris a large and valuable 
collection of Indian colored stuffs, together with the utensils by which they 
were prepared. These stuffs should be called painted rather than dyed ; the 
absorbent and mordant fluids were first applied with a brush, and the; desired 
colors then laid on ; those portions which were to remain Avhite were at the 
outset covered with wax, and the outlines of the pattern traced on the remainder. 
There is also at Paris a shawl, ten feet long and five feet wide, the handiwork 
of Indian princesses, and so elaborately as well as beautifully executed that it 
must have employed the skill and industry of more than one generation of the 
royal and dusky )vorkwomen. But everything else in ancient dyeing was sur- 
passed by the proverbially pre-eminent 

TYUIAN PURPLE. 

Inventions have their place in Mythology, and not improperly ; for if chance 
plays no inconsiderable part in the inventions and discoveries of the present days, 
BO also, it did in the days of old. All have heard, or read, the story of the dog 



396 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

which occasioned the discovery of the beautiful Tyrian purple. As Hercules (so 
runs the fable) walked one day on the sea-shore with the fair object of his love, 
her pet dog, playing around them, seized an open sp.a-snail, and dyed his mouth 
of so beautiful a color that the lady uttered a wish to have a dress of that self- 
same hue. Hercules, of course, succeeded in granting her desire. It is as- 
sumed that this discovery dates frum the year 1500 B. C. 

For nearly all that we know of purple dyeing we are indebted to Aristotle, 
Pliny, and Vitruvius. Pliny mentions two shell-fish that yield the "purple," 
the "buccinum," so called, on account of its resemblance to a trumpet, and 
the " purpura." The coloring substance was said to be contained in a trans- 
parent and branching vein at the back of the creature's neck, and while the 
animal was alive, the fluid had a mucous or creamy consistence. If the fish 
were small, they were pounded ; but if large, containing so much as an ounce 
of the highly valued fluid, the vein was detached, its contents mixed with five 
or six times its weight of water, and to the mixture thus formed soda was added, 
in the proportion of twenty ounces to every hundred pounds. The whole was 
then put into lead or tin vessels and kept in a moderately warm place for five 
or six days, the scum being from time to time carefully removed. As soon as 
the fluid assumed the precise tone of color that was desired, the wool was dyed- 
The proc-ess was very simple. The wool, being thoroughly cleansed from grease 
and all other im[)urities, was plunged into the dye for some five or six hours, 
or even longer if the object was to double dye the material, {dlbaphes,) in which 
ease it was highly esteemed and proportiouably high in price. W^ool thus dyed 
commanded in ihe reign of the Emperor Augustus the enormous price of two 
hundred dollars per pound, nearly its weight in gold ! 

We learn from Vitruvius that various countries had their peculiar shades of 
purple. At the north, the shade approached to violet, while at the south it 
became the vivid red which we now term a bright scarlet. Pliny also dis- 
tinguishes two different shades of purple — the tyrium or purpura, a dark crim- 
son like that of coagulated blood ; and the amethystinum, the light violet blue 
of the amethyst. Both authors agree in stating that an excellent purple was 
obtained from some plants; our own madder, it would seem, being among them. 
Madder (Rubia tinctorum) was undoubtedly known and cultivated in several 
ancient countries — Italy and Judea, for instance. Woad, too, (Isatis tiactosria,) 
was well knuwn to the ancients, and served to give to the purple that fine violet 
tint which was so much prized. 

The purple-yielding shell-fish were found on all the coasts of the Old World; 
and in Ureece, Italy, Dalmatia, Istria, and Egypt, there were large dyeing 
houses. Of course they used up an immense number of these minute animals ; 
but the supply was equal to the demand. For instance, Mount Testaceo, near 
Tarentum, consisted almost entirely of the shells of the Murex brandaris, which 
we believe to be tlu shells from which the Roman dyers extracted their color- 
ing matter. Accorcing to Tacitus, the Germans had a purple dye which was 
especially in reqiiest for linen. But above all the purple dyes of the ancients, 
that of Tyre and Sidon was admired, and it was a very important item in the 
commerce of the merchant princes of Tyre. No color has ever been so long 
valued and so profusely lauded as the purple. In the days of Moses it was the 
distinctive color of the great and the wealthy; Homer makes iEneas offer a su- 
perb purjjle robe to Bcllerophen ; Dives, in the New Testament, is " clothed in 
purple and fine linen;" and it was in a robe of purple that the stern Roman 
Imperator triumphantly returned to the seven-hilled city, after vanqiiishing and 
subjugating some far barbarian foe. Pliny speaks of "the Tyrian purple" as 
being a color so representative of dignity and majesty that Roman lictors made 
way for it with their fasces and their followers. Not only was it the distinctive 
mark for both young and old of high rank or great wealth, but was still fur- 
ther honored by being the indispensable color of the robes of those who reve- 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 397 

rently sacrificed to the gods, to obtain tlieir favor or to avert their wrath. 
Pliny is so much in k^ve with the purpU^ that he deems it no mere idle vanity, 
but a laudable and natural yearning in men eagerly to desire it. 

To the great majority of Romans purple was forbidden for a long time by its 
enormous cost as compared with the moderate fortunes of most of the plebeians ; 
but when wealth flowed into Rome and corrupted the Romans, purple was fast 
becoming the only wear, and the Cassars, from Julius downwards, prohibited 
its use by private citizens under pain of death. The Byzantine emperors made 
it penal even to write with purple ink; tlie use of which they monopolized for 
their own imperial signatures; and the very art of dyeing in purple was con- 
fined as a privilege and a monoply to favored individuals. As a natural con- 
sequence, the art decayed, and at length was entirely lost towards the end 
of the twelfth century, though so recently as the preceding century the Greeks, 
Saracens, and Jews, had been renowned for their skill as dyers. During the 
twelfth century the j)urple was less various in its shades, and very much less 
in request. But though the fickle tyrant Fashion, for a time, discarded purple 
in favor of scarlet, procured from the Thermes, the traditionary reverence for 
the imperial purple was not extinct, for even to this day, throughout the Old 
"World, "purple" is synonymous with imperial power and place. 

Strangely enough, while purple-dyeing Avas a disused, if not a forgotten, art 
in many of the countries to which it had once procured so much profit, it still con- 
tinued to be considerably practiced in Britain. With that island the ancient 
Phoenicians are known to have had considerable commerce, the Britons, as we 
learn from Herodotus, supplying the Phoenicians with tin, aud it is probable 
that it was from the Phoenicians that the Britons learned the art of purple- 
dyeing. The practice of the art existed in England till the close of the four- 
teenth century ; and so late even as 1681 an Irishman is said to have made a 
large fortune by the peculiar skill Avith which he gave the purple dye to fine 
linen and other articles of female apparel. He, like the ancients, obtained his 
dye from a shell-fish. 

The Chinese are said to have had a dye resembling the purple ; and in the 
New World, according to Don Antonio d'Ulloe, the people of the provinces of 
Guayaquil and Guatemala were, from the eailiest times, possessed of a beautiful 
red color, which they obtained from certain sea snails of a size not greater than 
a hazelnut. These, on account of their scarcity, Avere highly prized, and Avere 
used only for dyeing choice and costly matters, such as beads, fringes, braidings, 
&c. It was the popular belief that both the weight of the animal and the color 
of its juices varied Avith the houi-s of the day. 

The purple dve had at length become so entirely forgotten that Avhat the 
ancient Avriters had said of it was regarded as a fable, invented by the Phoeni- 
cians to conceal their knowledge of the cochineal insect. A shell-fish yielding 
such a fluid Avas no longer knoAvu. ItAvasnot until the seventeenth century 
that the first attempt Avas made to redscover and to ultilize the long-forgotten 
secret of antiquity. Then, indeed, men Avere enabled once more to vicAv the 
prodigy with their own eyes, for in the West Indies, in Peru, on the coasts of 
ItalyrFrance, and England, there Avere found muscles Avhosc vital juices, from ^ 
being at first colorless, soon took, successively, the shades of yellow, green, blue, 
and finally a splendid purple. William Cole, of Bristol, in England, was 
the first who, in the seventeenth century, experimented for the revival of 
the lost art of dyeing in purple, and he used only the common muscle Avhich is 
so abundant on the shores of England, and after long trial at length discovered 
the long-sou"-ht-for shell-fish in the Purpura Lapdlus. "If, "says he, "avc 
carefully break the shell we find, near the head of this shell-fish, a white vein 
lyiuo- in a furrow, and within that vein is a white, creamy, and somewhat gluti- 
nous fluid, Avhich is the much-desired dyestufi"." His description precisely 
coincides Avith that of Aristotle and of Pliny. 



398 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

In 1709 Juspicn made similar rescarcbcs on the French coast — researches 
which, in the following year, were continued by IJcaumur, who delighted, to make 
theory and ppccnlation the obedient handmaidens of every day utility. Some- 
what later the ?oft-shelled molluscs of the Mediterranean shores wore carefully 
examined by Italian naturalists, and so well has their pains-taking example 
been followed up that we are now acijuainted with a goodly number of mollnscs 
that yield the purple dyestuff. For the most part they belong to the families 
of the Micrcx and the Bucc'minn, of Linnaeus ; and it is thought that the Murex 
tritncidus, of Linnoeus, (one of the most abounding of the Mediterranean sea- 
snails,) and the Purpura and Piirptira ptitula, of Lamarck, are identical with 
Pliny's Buccinum. The Purpura Lapillus is quite common on the European 
shores, and is believed to have been the most important among the purple sea- 
snails of antiquity. Lesson thinks that the Jantliina frogdis is the true buc- 
cinum of antiqiiity. It is a native of the Mediterranean. In stormy weather 
it is thrown upon the coast of the French department of Ande in such vast 
numbers as actually to cover the strand. Lesson attributes to Narbonne (the 
Karhu Martins of the ancients) great skill and celebrity in the art of purplo 
dyeing in the times of ancient Home. Other writers say that though the Gar- 
lish purple Avas very splendid, it yet was very evanescent. The janthina un- 
doubtedly affords a bright and beautiful purple, and w:lien taken oi;t of the water 
yields the fluid to the average amount of about an ounce. But the fluid is fm*- 
nished by a gland entirely different from that spoken of by the old writers, a 
tact which it is difficult to reconcile with the ancient statement. Moreover, the 
modern purple is very evanescent, while the ancient was valued no less for its 
durability than for its beauty. Thus, in Plutarch's Life of Alexander the 
Great, we read that the Greeks found in the treasury of Darius purple stuffs to 
the value of five thousand talents, and that, though some of them were nearly two 
centuries old, the color had not at all faded. Lesson says that the coloring fluid 
yielded by the janthina passes through the same changes of light and shade 
as the vegetable colors do. With alkalies, it becomes blue ; Avith acids, red. 

Some writers include Aphjsia dcpulans and Scalaria dathrtis among the 
purple sea-snails, but this is doubtful. It is true that the aplysia sometimes 
voluntarily, ahvays when alarmed, does emit a beautiful purple fluid, and, in the 
latter case, in such quantities as to color the water for several yards around- 
Probably the purple fluid, in the case of the shell-fish, is analogous to the 
ink of the cuttlefish, the concealing and protecting provision of the otherwise 
defenceless creature. The fluid is colored at the moment of its ejection, but 
the tint is of slight duration. The fluid of the Scalaria rlathrus is still more 
evanescent — time and exposure to light discharging it entirely. Of the Plan- 
orhis Cornells Wallis says : " If you put salt, ginger, or pepper into its mouth 
it yields a purple fluid, but the color is so evanescent that we know of no 
mordant that can fix it." 

At present we arc acquainted with a great number of purple-yielding shell- 
fish, but we cannot identify any of them Avith the purple sea-snails of the an- 
cients, the descriptions left us by the old writers being too general and vague. 

In our own time Bancroft has industriously experimented with the dyeing 
fluid of purple sea-snails, and he asserts that they yield a fluid which surpasses 
everything else in animal nature, alike for the brilliancy and the permanency 
of its purple, and for the facility and simplicity of its use. Within the fish, or 
wdien separated from it, the fluid has a creamy appearance, or, as Reaumur 
phrases it, resembles a well-developed pus. The textures to Avhich it is ap- 
plied become first of a light, then of a darker green, next blue, and acquire 
finally a rich deep purple tint, inclining to crimson. According to Bancroft, the 
gradual prismatic changes of the colors are as beautiful as they are remarkable. 
Even the most powerful chemical agencies, whether mineral acids or the most 
corrosive alkali, can only subject this purple to one change — wash the fabric in 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 399 

strong soapsuds and the purple becomes a magnificent and permanent crimson. 
Dyed with this singular fluid the fobric passes throiigh all the prismatic changes 
of color of which we have spoken, in a very few minutes ; and if exposed to heat 
as well as light, the changes are so rapidly effected that the eye can scarcely 
appreciate the passing of one hue into another ; but if, on the contrary, light 
be completely excluded, the first pale, yellowish green will remain^ unchanged 
for years. Bancroft proved this with some linen thus dyed, and kept for nine 
years in the dark. 

As to the causes of the changes of color they arc not clearly understood. 
Bcrthollet thinks that the coloring matter absorbs oxygen. Bancroft attributes 
the effect to light. lie justifies his opinion by reference to the coloring of prints, 
flowers, &c., Avhich coloring is known to take place, not from wai-mth, but from 
light. It is by the mere exclusion of light that we bleach, for instance, endive 
and celery. 

As far as we arc at present informed, the chemical nature of this coloring 
matter is as little known as the modua operandi of its successive changes afrer 
being applied to a textile material. Highly as Bancroft and others have praised 
the purple, it has had its day of popular favor. For dyeing fine muslins, and 
as a marking fluid, purple is still occasionally used. Even as long ago as the 
thirteenth century, scarlet, from Kcrmes, instead of purple, was the adopted 
color of the Hungarian magnates. Our numerous dyestuffs, and our facile and 
economical dyeing processes, render us independent of the ancient purple. 

With the revival of science and art from the decadence into Avhich tliey had 
sunk,, during wha^ are not unjustly called the dark ages, dyeing, like other arts, 
started into new, vigorous life. Till the fifteenth century, and still later, Italy 
bore away the palm in the art of dyeing, for which Florence and Venice were 
especially renowned. The discoA'ery of America gave a great impulse to the 
Siime art, dyestuflTs being furnished which were entirely unknown to the Flora 
and the Fauna of the Old World. From the Italians the mastery in the art 
passed to the Flemings ; and when the religious persecutions by Spain drove 
the Flemings into exile, these latter carried their art into France and England. 
It was a native of the Netherlands, Cornelias Drebbel, by whom, in 1650, the 
discovery was made that cochineal Avas capable of yielding a dye f;\r surpassing 
iu beauty the purple of the ancients. Drebbel was at work in his laboratory, 
when an accident having thrown some aqua rcga over the tin fastenings of the 
window panes, and thence into a bottle full of an aq^ueous infusion of cochineal, 
the latter on the instant assumed that magnificent scarlet tint which is now 
so well known. Drebbel was too acute and too reflecting an observer to neglect 
such an indication, and from that time cochineal has played an important part 
in the art of dyeing. 

]\Iodern chemistry, however, has done more for this art in single years than 
had previously been accomplished in centuries. Pure and eficctive mordants 
and mineral colors have wonderfully changed both the laborious and the eco- 
nomical processes of the art. Colored garments were formerly the external sign 
of rank or opulence. At the pi-csent day, thanks to the labors of men of science, 
the man who wears the homeliest and cheapest garb, as to quality of fabric, may 
yet wear it of the most tasteful color. Chemistry, however, is still making and 
will lon<^ continue to make still further improvements in this art, as in others. 
One of tlie latest acquisitions thus made by the secluded men of the laboratory 
15 that of the much-valued coloring material known as 

MUREXl.NE, (MUREXIDROTH.) 

This color is extracted from the uretric acid contained in urine. 
The ancient adepts, or alchemists; carefully analysed that fluid, in which in- 
deed they sought thcii- arcanum, and iu the course of their expcrimeutiug they 



'400 PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

produced volatile alkali, aud pliospLoretic ammonire natron. The last named 
salt was probably known to the ancients, aud used by them in soldering metals. 

The uric acid which now is so importantly utilized in viriuc, or rather in uric 
calculi, was found by Scheele, in the year 177G, which are, for the most part, 
composed of that acid, itself a component part of the urine of all carnivorous 
animals, and perhaps of all animals having a renal secrcition ; * being in the ex- 
crement of birds, snakes, and even iu that of caterpillars, snails, &c. 

Scheele remarked, that a solution of uric acid in acid of saltpetre left, Avlien 
evaporated, a red sediment, and would stain the skin a fine red color. In 1818, 
Prout, by the action of ammoniaj on a solution of uretric matter in acid of salt- 
petre, discovered a material which he called " purple acetic amraonia^um," on 
account of its splendid color. He thus describes the process of producing it : 
Pure acetic acid and acid of saltpetre are mixed with an equal volume of water 
and gently warmed till solution takes place and strong fermentation is produced. 
The superfluous acid of saltpetre is then diluted w4th ammoniajum and the 
whole reduced by evaporation. During the operation the color gradually 
changes from purple to red, and through numerous shades of dark red. Green- 
ish granular crystals are precipitated, which consist of purpuric acid and am- 
moniajum. This reaction is remarkable, and so positive that chemists have 
long availed themselves of it to detect the presence of uretric acid in any organic 
substance, for this characteristic coloring only takes place in the way mentioned 
and where uretric acid is present. 

Liebig and Woehler, in 1837, also produced this brilliant colored matter 
while exjierimenting on the changes of uretric acid under the influence of oxyd- 
ating matter. It appeared iu the form of small crystals, or short four-sided 
prisms, Avhich Avhen held up to the sunlight appear of a rich garnet-red color, 
changing, under a reflected light, to a greenish metallic splendor not unlike that 
of the wing of a rose-chaflfer. Those chemists believing Prout to be mistaken 
as to the chemical composition of this beautiful colored material gave it the 
name of "murexid," from murex, the purple snail. It is not formed directly 
from the uretric acid, W'hich is first converted into aloxan and aloxantine by 
means of acetic snltpetre. These are two colorless combinations of little. dura- 
bility, but, acted upon by ammoniajum, they exhibit the purple-red coloring. 

Prout produced sevoral compositions fi-om purpuric acid and other bases, such 
as lime, quicksilver, and oxyde of zinc, aud all such compositions were remark- 
ably beautiful in color. lie also claimed that some of those compositions can 
be utilized not only in painting, but also in the dyeing of wool and other tex- 
tiles, but his statement could not immediately be acted upon. In the first 
place, his description Avas so vague and general that experiments often failed 
when based xipon it. Then the temperature, not less than the concentration 
of the fluid, is of great importance iu producing the result, which often is very 
different even when the accurate prescription of Liebig and Woehler is followed. 
Moreover, in Prout's time the raw material was insufficient for the production 
of a large and constant supply of this dyestuff. It is true that, as we have 
stated, the uretric acid is furnished by many species of animals, but it is fur- 
nished only in very small quantities. Man, for instance, secretes only about 
one-third of a drachm of it in twenty-four hours. The excrement of birds is dis- 
tinguished for its great proportion of uretric acid ; it is yL part of the Aveight of 
dried |)ig(!on's dung. But that could not be prodiiced in large quantities any 
more than the excrement of snakes, which consists chiefly of uretric-acidical 
salts. 

* Millions of dollars are annually paid for guano by the farmers on both sides of the Atlantic, 
yet tlicy, for the most part, suffer the urine of tlioir live stock to sink uselessly into the ground 
or to ])nlliite and empoison the air, forgetting, if they ever knew, that guano is only more 
valuable than the manure of the farm-yard or the stable because birds have no urinary pas- 
sage, and therefore their faecal excrement contains all the uretric salts. — Translator. 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 401 

If even the chemists were iusufliciently supplied with the raw material, still 
less could it be procured for the purposes of industry. In Prout's time, the 
cost of a pound of uretric acid was from thirty-two dollars to forty-two dollars 
and forty cents ; it can uoav be bought for from two dollars to two dollars and 
fourteen cents, though it is not in a chemically pure state. This great reduc- 
tion, which enables the manufacturer and artisan to be plentifully supplied with 
murexid, is owing to the introduction of 

GUANO. 

This substance is imported from Peru into various parts of North America 
and Europe, at the rate of between one and two hundred thousand tons per 
annum. Guano is found in vast quantities in Peru and on many of the cliffs 
and islands in that part of America between the 13th and 21st degrees of south 
latitude. It is the excrement of sea-birds, and contains as much as four per cent, 
of uretric acid. In those regions the sandy soil could ba but unprofitably cul- 
tivated without the aid of guano. It is known that as early as the twelfth 
century manuring with guano was practiced there. Under the Incas, guano 
was considered so valuable that killing the young birds on the guano islands 
was punishable by death. 

Each of those islands had its superintendent, and each island was assigned 
to a particular province. From 6,000 to 7,000 tons were annually used in Peru 
alone ; and Avheu Alexander von Humboldt was exploring America, there were 
as many as fifty small coasting vessels employed exclusively in the transport 
of guano. Humboldt took some samples to Europe, where they were analyzed by 
Klaproth, Fourcray, and Vauquelin. The celebrated traveller and writer also 
published what he had learned as to the importance of guano to agriculture, 
but for some time his words remained unheeded. In Germany, Liebig's call 
upon the cultivators of the soil failed to stir them into activity, and it is even 
now insufficiently used, even by England, v^hose severely worked land more 
than almost any in Europe requires such a return of the elements of which 
years of grain-growing have deprived it. •• • 

Liebig and Woehler were the first chemists to experiment on guano. In the 
course of their inquiries on the subject of uretric acid they had often been em- 
barrassed by want of material ; they therefore requested William Kind, an 
apothecary of Bremen, to procure them some, and in due season received a hun- 
dred pounds weight from Valparaiso. So much have agriculturists been enlight- 
ened since that time, that, in several European countries, guano is an article of 
considerable yearly importation, and the raw material of uretric acid is never 
wanting. And such is the potency of modern chemistry that guano, so highly 
offensive to the nostrils in its raw state, is made to yield some of the most deli- 
cate of the perfumes which are used by the fair and the fashionable. A greater 
contrast than that presented in this case by the raw material and the article it 
is compelled to yield can scarcely be imagined. 

The first attempts to render the murexid available for dyeuig purposes were 
made by Sacc, in Alsace, that high school of the art of dyeing ; and he suc- 
ceeded in giving to wool an amaranth color far more beautiful than that obtained 
from cochineal." This induced Schunberger to try a new course of experiments, 
in which, if he did not entirely succeed, he at least ascertained that white tex- 
tures could be thus dyed both handsomely and durably. Sacc maintained on 
this occasion that the coloring matter of the cochmcal, the kermes, &c., has 
some connexion with murexid. He claimed to have discovered that birds, and 



pecially those of Brilliant plumage, the parrots, for instance, while they are 
^oultmg, secrete scarcely a distinguishable trace of uretric acid, but secrete a con- 
siderable quantity as soon as they recover their full plumage. What, then, 
becomes of the uretric acid when it is no longer excreted ixom the body? 



26 S 



402 PUErLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 

May it not be mctamorpliosed into some other substance Avhicb, like tbe alloxan, 
is capable of dyeing the feathers ? These questions are only suggested, and 
we are not as yet able to supply the answers ; but this hypothesis, if adopted 
with regard to birds, must also be extended to reptiles, insects, &c. 

The murexid is now a favorite dyeing material, strongly competiitg even with 
cochineal. Germany, as usual, was the last to adopt it. In a new and little 
known process mistakes are quite natural. When this new dyestuff first made 
its appearance as an article of trade, under the names of purple carmine, purple 
murcxide, or paste murexide, it was in the form of a dirty-brown pulp. Though 
it sold as high as 84 SO to $6 the pound, it was a very inferior quality, 
and in many cases contained not more than from four to five per cent, of the 
murexid. Of course, this inferiority arose from imperfect preparation. 

To extract uretric acid from guano, the latter must be moistened with diluted 
acid of salt, and warmed. Tlie calcareous salts and everythiiig soluble in water 
. or acids is removed, while the uretric acid, Avith a not inconsiderable quantity of 
sand and other adulterations, remains. The well-washed residue is then put, 
in small quantities, into acid of saltpetre of 1.45 specific gravity, and the vessel 
must be kept cold. Only when the fermentation subsides should more uretric 
acid be added. .By this procedure alloxan and alloxantine are obtained. But it 
must not be forgotten, that, as it is impossible to hit upon the exactly correct 
quantity of the acid of saltpetre, we should always have a surplus of the acid 
at hand. It must be remembered, too, that very noxious fumes escape during 
the evaporation of the solution. The above-mentioned chemical products of 
uric acid suffer a further decomposition, and form combinations destitute of 
murexid. To avoid this, it is necessary that to the solution of uric acid and 
acid of saltpetre there should, during the evaporation, be an addition of ammo- 
nseum. Murexid may be formed without that addition, but always at the ex- 
pense of the alloxan and alloxantine ; for if the ammonseum be absent during the 
evaporation, the alloxan and alloxantine are required to supply its place in tho 
chemical production of murexid during the evaporation ; and, moreover, the 
decomposition just spoken of continues, and we run the risk of having the 
murexid destroyed as fast as formed. 

The murexid must not be suffered to crystallize ; the solution is to be evapo- 
rated only to the consistency of a pulp. In the whole process there should be 
the utmost care observed that only the purest and best murexid be produced. 
The high price of the pure article Avould be more than compensated by its 
greater efBcacy in dyeing. All textile fabrics, silk, Avool, cotton, and flax, 
may be dyed Avith murexid, Avhich is also used in cotton printing. Truly splen- 
did colors are obtained by using the oxmuriate of mercury as the adhesive 
medium. We are obliged, hoAvever, to confess Avith regret that the murexid red 
cannot compare Avith the ancient purple as to durability. Samples on Avhich we 
experimented Avith the usual re-agents lost their colors, hoAvever beautiful. "We 
do not speak of such re-agents as the corroding alkalies and potent mineral acids 
Avhich Avould affect, and in our experiments did affect, black no less than murexid 
red. But this latter faded inider the application of cA'cn Aveak A-egetablc acids, 
such as vinegar, lemon-juice, &c., and even perspiration left visible traces upon 
the delicate tincture, llere, no doubt, are considerable defects ; but it is to be 
remembered that the Avholc art of dyeing Avith murexid is as yet in its infancy. 
Even the ancient purple Avas not indestructible, and in the present day the 
public demand is not for indestructibility, but for cheapness. If the color please 
the eye and the price per yard be Ioav, little is thought about the durability of 
the article. Time and the progress of chemical science Avill doubtless remedy 
the defects spoken of, since there can be no question but that this color is sus- 
ceptible of great improvement. If the murexid be jirecipitated from its solu- 
tions by metallic salts, as, for instance, oxymuriate of mercury, or salts of lead 
or zinc, very beautiful lac colors arc obtamed, which can be used for the paint- 



PURPLE DYEING, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 403 

ing or printing of paper-hangings ; anrl quite a new field is opened to the dyer 
and printer of textile fabrics by the affinity of this coloring material for various 
metallic salts. Not only several beautiful shades of red can be produced with 
it, but also yellow, blue and violet. 

And thus it is that our sober and utilitarian day steals one by one its glories 
from hoar antiquity. What the mightiest and haughtiest magnates of the olden 
day claimed as their exclusive privilege has now become common property to 
the humblest as well as to the highest. A striking proof, this common pro- 
perty in beautiful colors, of the superiority of the present age in its utilitarian 
tendencies to that antiquity which we so highly, and, in a pin-ely asthetic point 
of view, so justly, glorify. The animals which supplied the ancients with their 
costly purple arc perfectly known to us and easily obtainable, but we cast them 
aside, because we can more readily obtain our objects by other means. Whether 
the murexid be the very "purple" of the ancients is a question fairly open to 
discussion ; but that it is so is by no means improbable. We know that uric 
acid is a constituent of the common snail, and, it is not unreasonable to suppose, 
of the piTrple snail also, though the fact be not experimentally proved. Putre- 
fied urine, added to the fluid of snails, furnishes ammonia ; so that the ingre- 
dients for the formation of mm-exid are certainly present. 

Should the murexid red be still supposed inferior to that resplendent purple 
which the old writers so eloquently extol, let it not be forgotten that the skill 
of the dyer -^vas of old limited almost to that one really splendid color, and 
that our modern wealth of gorgeous colors and delicate tints was then not 
dreamed of. Could we place our murexid, however, side by side with the true 
Roman purple, the former probably would not lose by the comparison. The 
glories of antiquity, like the prestige of our modern gi-eat men, might lose not 
a little of their illusion were we placed in closer contact with them. 



METHOD OF PRESERVING LEPIDOPTERA. 



PREPARED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY TITIAN R. PEALE. 



The difficulties in the preservation of zoological collections generally arise 
from two causes, namely, moisture and destructive insects. 

To guard against the effects of moisture requires so little ingenuity that I 
shall merely allude incidentally to the necessity of drying the specimens well 
at iirst, and then keeping them in dry places. 

The greatest of all difficulties to guard against, particularly in this country, 
is the voracity of the destructive insects belonging to the entomological families 
of Dcr))iestid(B and TlneidcB. These are the worst enemies of the zoological 
curator, as well as the fur-trader and careful housewife. 

Tinea tapetzella, the clothes moth, which troubles the housewife and the 
clothier, does not disturb the entomologist ; consequently the whole of this 
family may here be passed by in silence. 

Dermestes lardarius (the bacon beetle) and Anthrenus musceorum (museum 
beetle) and their congeners are the great depredators. In the time of the 
Pharaohs of Egypt they destroyed the mummies which were intended to last 
through all time, and now in our day they destroy the specimens with which 
we hope to enlighten posterity. As they have been known for centuries, nu- 
merous poisons and various devices have been resorted to in order to destroy 
them, but they remain as numerous as ever, being naturalized and abundantly 
propagated wherever man has made his resting-place on the earth. 

In early life I was a devoted student of nature, an industrious collector of 
specimens, and a somewhat expert taxidermist. It is, however, needless to 
record the fact that I lost my specimens, like others, almost as fast as they 
were collected, and, as a last resource, I was compelled to undertake a careful 
study of the habits of the enemieis with which I had to contend, in order to learn 
the means of subduing them. I eaidy found that substances containing albu- 
men or gelatine stand but little chance of escaping the ravages of the Dcnncs- 
tidce, and must bo destroyed, sooner or later, by their attacks, whether moist or 
dry, imless chemically changed in character, or kept by some mechanical ar- 
rangement beyond the reach of the insect. I say chemically altered, because, 
as in the case of gelatine soaked in corrosive sublimate, the coagulation of 
the material, which is a chemical change, so alters the matter as to render 
it no longer a proper food for the insect. The means of protecting, therefore, 
must be adapted to the kind of specimens to be preserved. Our present object 
is principally to describe a successful experiment in preserving Licpidoptera, and 
to this subject we shall chiefly confine our remarks. 

The vapor of camphor, and the essential oils generally, are sickening or fatal 
to the perfect insects of the family Dcrincstidce, but have little or no eflect upon 
their eggs or larva) ; consequently, although these perfumes in close cases are 
useful to keep out the parent insects, they will not destroy the progeny after a 
lodo-ement has once been attained. The several species of this family, unlike 
most other insects, have no fixed period or season for depositing their eggs, and 
consequently require to be vigilantly guarded against at all times. They are 
about one year in attaining their full growth, in which time they cast their skins 
four or five times. Their feet, though armed with claws, are unfit to climb on 
a hard smooth substance like that of clean polished glass. They spin no silk, 
and therefore cannot, like many caterpillars, construct a fibrous ladder to climb 



METHOD OF PRESERVING LEPIDOPTERA. 405 

up tlie same surfoce. Upon these simple facts I based plans for the preserva- 
tion of Liepidoptera as long ago as 18::i8, and since then uo specimen which I 
have wished to preserve has been touched by Dermestes. 

For collecting insects I have generally found the case described by LeVal- 
liant, during his travels in South Africa, the most convenient. This principally 
consists of a box filled with perpendicular slides covered with cork, to which 
the specimens are pinned, and a horizontal drawer at the bottom to receive any 
specimens which may be disengaged from the slides during transportation, and 
thus preventing it from damaging those Avhich remain on the slide. The spaces 
between the slides being all open below, a single bag of camphor placed in the 
drawer will diiiuse its vapor through all the compartments, and thus prevent the 
attack of ants, roaches, and other large insects which prey, especially in tropical 
countries, on the fresh specimens. By placing the specimens on the perpen- 
dicular slides, tile-fashion, I have found that double the number could be ac- 
commodated, while additional security was gained by this arrangement from 
the danger of the loosening of the pins by the jolting of the box. 

In the preparation for the cabinet I begin by pinning the specimens to be 
preserved in the order in which they are finally to be preserved on the bottom 
of a shallow box, lined with a thin layer of cork, or, better, of balsa-wood, which 
is easier penetrated by the point of the pin. This box must be of precisely the 
same length and breadth as those which are to form the permanent cases of the 
cabinet. When the specimens have been ar- 
ranged in the order to suit the taste, and so that 
one may not overlap the other, the box, with its 
contents, is transferred to an oven, which I also 
invented in 1828 for this special object, but 
which has since been used, generally by chem- 
ists and others, for a variety of purposes. It is 
surrounded and heated by boiling water, the 
temperature of which is sufficient to kill the 
eggs and the larvaj of the Dermestes, but is not 
sufficient to injure the specimens of butterflies, 
moths, &c. The specimens are kept in this oven 
several hours, or during the night. (See Fig. 1.) 

After the specimens have been sufficiently 
baked I lay a clean pane of plate glass imme- Firr \ 

diately over the specimens, which, resting on «• • 

the perpendicular sides of the box, does not touch them. On the upper side 
of this glass plate, face -down, and directly over the pin securing each specimen, 
I attach, with fish-glue, (isinglass,) a circular piece of paper, about a quarter 
of an inch in diameter, containing a printed number. The size of the glass 
plates which I use, and find most convenient, is eight and a half by ten and a 
half inches. It is commonly imported, and used for cheap mirrors. It must 
be cleaned with dilute nitric acid, or the surface will be liable to become foggy 
in damp changes of weather. 

Next small cylinders of cork of the same diameter as the papers contain- 
iuf the numbers, and just large enoitgh to support the specimens, are cemented 
to°the o-lass plate directly on the top of each of the paper numbers. The cement 
used for this purpose is composed of about equal parts of resin, beeswax, and 
chrome "-reen, melted, for convenience, over a nursery lamp placed on the table 
beside me. The pieces of cork are dipped into tin; composition, and while the 
portion of the latter which adheres is still liquid, they are attached to the glass 
in their proper positions. 

The next operation is to attach the plate glass to a wooden frame, thus form- 
ing a shallow box, of which the glass plate Avill be the bottom, having the 
numbers and cork supports on the inner side. This frame is made of strips of 




406 



METUOD OF PEESERVING LEPIDOPTERA. 



Fis. 2. 




white pine, ready planed by the carpenter, to the dimensions of one inch and 
an eighth in width, and three sixteenths of an inch in thickness. 
These slips are cut to the proper length, and fastened in the form 
of a rectangle by common pins at the corners, as shown in Fig. 2. 
Previous, however, to forming the slips of wood into frames, they 
are coated on all sides with tinfoil, which is attached by means of 
the cement above described, omitting the coloring matter. I find 
it convenient to keep on hand while preparing these cases a supply 
of tinfoil, coated on one side ready, when required, to be cut into 
slips of the proper size. The coating of cement is put on by means of a brush 
dipped into the melted material. 

Another plan, and I believe the best one, is to have the cement enclosed in a mus- 
lin bag, which may be tied to the end of a short stick ; the tinfoil is to be spread out 
on a hot iron plate, say the top of a stove, when the 
bag containing the cement is rubbed over its surface, and 
the heat being sufficient to melt the wax and resin, the 
foil may be evenly coated, and on removal from the hot 
metal plate, as it cools quickly, may then be rolled up 
and kept in readiness to bccut in suitable pieces for use, 
Ffg. 3 exhibits a box thus formed, of which a, b, c, 
d are the wooden sides covered with tinfoil, and e the 
glass plate, on the inside of which are placed the paper 
numbers covered by the cork supports. The next step 
in the process is to transfer the butterflies in the pre- 
liminary box to their several supports on the glass plate, and to securely pin 
them to the cork so as not to fall off in the ordinary handling of the cabinet. 
After this the box is to be permanently closed with a glass cover of the same 
dimensions as the one which forms the bottom, and the whole fastened air-tight 
by means of the tinfoil. By this arrangement the specimens are hermetically 
sealed between two parallel panes of plate glass, which allow the under as 
well as the upper surfaces of the insect to be seen, while the whole is preserved 
from atmospheric changes and the ravages of insects. 

The cases containing the specimens are now' furnished, so far as the means of 
preserving the contents are concerned, but this case itself requires to be guarded 

from injury and kept free of dust. For 
this purpose it is placed in an outer case, 
which I prefer to make in the form of a 
book with covers, which, on opening, ex- 
hibit the glass plates and the contents of 
the case. On the inner surfaces of these 
covers I write, or print, the names of the 
specimens therein contained. 

All the cases which form the whole 
cabinet are arranged in an ordinary book- 
case with glass doors, and when properly 
ornamented on the back resemble a series 
of large octavo volumes. The cases 
should always be kept like books in a case, 
in an upright position, and never allowed 
to lie on their sides, except when in use. The reason for this will be obvious: 
the perfect Dermestcs might find a small hole in the tinfoil wherein to enter, or, 
deposit its eggs; but should the glass be upright, neither the old nor the young 
depredators would be able to climb up to the specimens, which they possibly 
might reach if the case should lie on its side. 

Thirty-five years' experience with cases made as above described has proved 
the correctness of the theory of their construction. 




Fis;. 4. 



AN ACCOUNT 

OP 

A REMARKABLE ACCUMULATION OF BATS. 



BY M. FIGANIEIIRE t. ftlOUAO, AUNISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY FROM PORTUGAL TO THE 

UNITED STATES. 



In the winter of 1859, having purchased the property known as Seneca Point, 
in the margin of the Northeast river, near Charleston, in Cecil county, Mary- 
land, we took possession of it in May of the next year. The dwelling is a brick 
structure, covered with slate, in the form of an _!_, two storied, with garret, cel- 
lars, and a stone laundry and milk-house attached. Having been uninhabited 
for several years, it exhibited the appearance, with the exception of one or two 
rooms, of desolation and neglect, with damp, black walls, all quite unexpected, 
as it had been but very slightly examined, and was represented in good habitable 
condition, merely requiring some ^gw repairs and a little painting. 

The boxes, bundles, and other packages of furniture which had preceded us, 
laid scattered around and within the dwelling; these, with the exception of some 
mattresses and bedding for immediate use, were hastily arranged for unpacking 
and placing in order at leisure. The weather, which was beautiful, balmy and 
warm, invited us towards evening to out-door enjoyment and rest, after a fatigu- 
ing day of travel and active labor; but chairs, settees, and benches were scarcely 
occupied by us on the piazza and lawn, when, to our amazement and the horror 
of the female portion of our party, small black bats made their appearance in 
immense numbei's, flickering around the premises, rushing in and out of doors and 
through opened windows, almost obscuring the early twilight, and causing a 
general stampede of the ladies, who fled, covering their heads with their hands, 
fearing that the dreaded little vampires might make a lodgement in their hair. 

This remarkable exhibition much increased our disappointment in regard to 
the habitable condition of our acquisition, and was entirely unexpected, inas- 
much as the unwelcome neighbors were in their dormant state and ensconced 
out of sight wheu the property was examined previous to purchase. With 
their appearance, and in such immense numbers, the prospect of immediate in- 
door arrangement and comfort vanished ; the paramount the urgent necessity 
was to get rid of such a nuisance as quickly as possible, and the question was 
by what means could this be accomplished. Our acienlific friends and acquaint- 
ances both in New York and Philadelphia were consulted, various volumes of 
natural history were examined, in order to ascertain the peculiar habits of the 
vermin, but we derived no efi'ectual consolation from these sources. One of 
our frieads, indeed, sent us from New York an infallible exterminator in tlie 
form of a recipe obtained at no inconsiderable cost : strips of fat pork saturated 
with a subtle poison were to bo hung up in places where the annoying " crea- 
tures did most congregate"— of this they would surely eat and thus "shuffle 
off their mortal coil." How many revolving bat seasons it might have re([uired 
by this process to kill off the multitude, the urgency of the case would not al- 
low us to calculate, and the experiment was therefore abandoned. 

Evening after evening did we patiently though not complacently watch this 
periodical exodus of dusky wings into light from their lurking-places one after 



408 A REMARKABLE ACCUMULATION OF BATS. 

another, and in Bome instances in couples and even trebles, according as the size 
of the holes or apertures from which they emerged in the slate rooting would 
permit. Their excursions invariably commenced with the cry of the " whip- 
poorwill" both at coming evening and at early dawn, and it wa^ observed that 
they always first directed their flight towards the river, undoubtedly to damp 
their mouse-like snouts, but not their spirits, for it was likewise observed that 
they returned to play hide-and-seek and indulge in all other imaginable gam- 
bols ; when, after gratifying their love of sport and satisfying their voracious ap- 
petites (as the absence of mosquitoes and gnats testified) they would re-enter 
their habitation, again to emerge at the first signal of their feathered trumpeter. 
I thus ascertained one very important fact, namely, that the bat, or the species 
which annoyed us, ate and drank twice in twenty-four hours. Such appeared 
their habit — such, therefore, was their indispensable need. Upon ascertaining 
this fact, after having tried suffocation by the fumes of brimstone Avith only 
partial success, I concluded to adopt a more efficient plan of warfare, and for this 
purpose commenced by causing all the holes, fissures in the wood-work, and aper- 
tures in the slating to be hermetically sealed with cement. This put a stop to 
their egress, but to avoidtheir dying by starvation and deprivation of water, which 
would much increase the annoyance by adding their dead to their living stench, 
I ordered apertures of about two feet square to be opened in the lathed and plas- 
tered partition on each side of the garret windows and also in the ceiling of 
every garret room ; lastly, when the bat's reveille was sounded by the buglo 
of the whippoorwill, all the hands of our establishment, men and boys, each 
armed with a wooden implement, (shaped like a cricket-bat.) marched to the 
third floor "on murderous deeds with thoughts intent;" a lighted lantern Avas 
placed in the middle of one of the rooms, divested of all furniture, to allure the 
hidden foe from their strongholds. After closing the Avindow to prevent all 
escape into the open air, the assailants distributed themselves at regular dis- 
tances to aA'oid clubbing each other, awaited the appearance of the bats, enticed 
into the room by the artificial light and impelled by their OAvn natural craving. 
The slaughter commenced and progressed Avith sanguinary vigor for several 
hours, or until brought to a close by the weariness of dealing the bloAvs that 
made the enemy bite the dust, and overpoAvered by the heat and closeness of 
the apartment. This plan succeeded perfectly. After a fcAV evenings of simi- 
lar exercise, in Avhich the batteurs became quite expert in the use of their weapon 
every Avielding of the Avooden bat bringing doAvn an expiring namesake, the 
war terminated by the extermination of every individual of the enemy in the 
main building. HoAvever, there still Avas the cock-loft of the laundry, Avhich 
gave evidence of a large population. In this case I had recourse to a plan 
which had been recommended, but was not carried out in regard to the dAvelling- 
house. I employed a slater to remove a portion of the slating Avhich required 
repairing. This process discovered some fifieen hundred or two thousand bats, 
of which the larger number Avere killed, and the surAiving sought the barn, trees, 
and other places of concealment in the neighborhood. 

In the main building nine thousand six hundred and forty bats, from actual 
counting, Avere d(!stroyed. This AA'as ascertained in the following manner: after 
the battling of each evening the dead were swept into one corner of the room, 
and in the morning, before removing them to the manure heap, they Avere care- 
fully counted and recorded ; many had been killed before and some few after 
the reckoning Avas made, and Avere not included in it, nor Avere those killed under 
the adjoining laundry roof. The massacre commenced by killing fewer the first 
evenings, the number increasing and then dihiinishing towards the end, but it Avas 
generally from fifty or a hundred, up to six hundred and fifty, the highest 
mortality of one evening's work, dAvindling doAvn to eight, five, three, and tAvo. 

This species of bat is generally small, black, and very liA-ely ; some smaller 
than the ordinary size Avere found, probably young ones, and one or two larger, 



A REMARKABLE ACCUMULATION OF BATS. 409 

supposed to be graudfatliers, of a reddisli hue, which was thouglit to be from 
ag-e. These vermin are generally more or less covered with a small-sized bug 
not very dissimilar to the common chinch, but of a different species. As pre- 
viously stated, the bat has a very disagreeable odor, which also pertains to its 
ejection. 

The manure as well as the bodies of the slain was used to fertilize the flower- 
ing and vegetable garden, and thus, in some degree, they served to comi)ensate 
us for the annoyance to which we had been subjected. The manure, however, 
required to be applied with caution, since, if used in too large a (piautity, it ap- 
peared to burn the organism of the plants. 

'1^0 remove the very disagreeable odor which remained in the upper part of 
the house, various kinds of disinfectants were employed with some advantage ; 
but the most eifectual method resorted to was that of opening holes of about 
four inches square, two at each gable end, to permit a current of air to pass 
through. These holes were covered with iron gauze to prevent the re-cntranco 
of any of the remainder of the army of the enemy which might hover around 
the premises. At the end of five years the odor has now nearly disappeared, 
being barely perceptible during a continuance of very damp weather. 

[The fact mentioned above of the numerous parasites infesting bats is perhaps 
the most revolting feature in these creatures. The enormous population of 
Acari found upon their bodies is due to the great generation of animal heat in 
their close haunts, a condition conducive to a rapid increase of all kinds of ver- 
min. In this country the common bed-bug ( Chncx Icctularis) is frequently 
found upon their fur. The entrance of a bat, with its precious burden, into the 
open window of a farm-house is the solution of that frequ(>ntly propounded 
question of the despaiiing housewife, "Where can the bugs come from?"] 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



ENGLISH WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



AVOIRDUPOIS. 





Grains. 


Draclims. 


Ounces. 


Lbs. 


Qrs. 


Cvvt. 


Tons. 


Grain 


1. 

27.34 

437.5 

7000, 

190000. 

784000. 

156S0OO0. 














Drachm 


1. 
16. 

256. 

7108. 

28072. 

573440. 












Ounce 


1. 

10. 

448. 

1792. 

35840. 






, 




I'ound 


1. 

28. 

112. 

2240. 








Quarter 


1 
4 

80 






Cut 


1 
20 




Ton 


1 







TROY WEIGHT. 





Grains. 


Dwts. 


Ounces. 


Lb. 


Grain 


1 

24 

480 
5760 








Penny wcic^ht . ... ... ... 


1 

20 
240 






Ounce 


1 

12 




Pound 


1 







cubic incli of distilled water, in air, at 62° F z= 252.456 gr. 

cubic inct of distilled water, in vacuo, at 62° F zz: 252.722 gr. 

Cubic inches. 

gallon = 277.276. 

= 34.659. 

= 1.7329. 

= 61.024. 

= 0.061024. 

= 16.387 cubic centimetres. 



pmt 

fluid ounce 

litre 

cubic centimetre, 
cubic inch 



1.00000 parts of gas at 32 F., 29.922 bar., (also at 32^ 
bar. 30 iucbes, (also at 60°) =1.05720 parts. 



become, at 60° F., 



FRANCE. 



METRICAL SYSTEM NOW IN USE. 



English value. 

Millimetre, (1,000th of a metre) 0.03937 inches. 

Centimetre, (100th of a metre) 0.39371 inches. 

Decimetre, (10th of a metre) 3.93708 inches. 

Metre,* (unit of length) 39.3708 inches, or 3.2809 feet. 

Decametre, (10 metres) 32.809 feet, or 10.9363 yards. 

Hectometre, (100 metres) 328.09 feet, or 109.3633 yards. 

Kilometre, (1,000 metres) 1093.63 yards, or 0.62138 miles. 

Myriametre, (10,000 metres) 10936.33 yaixls, or 6.21382 miles. 



*Tho metre is a ten-millionth part of the quadrant of the meridian of the earth, or, in other 
words, the teu-milDonth part of Lhe distance from the equator to the pole. 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



411 



SURFACE. 

m .• z-^^, n English value. 

Centiare, (100th of an are, or a square 

^ °^etre) 1.1960 sriuare yards. 

Are, (square decametre and unit of sur- 

_ ^=^^6) 1 19.G033 square yds., or 0.0247 acres. 

Decare, (10 ares) 1196.033 square yds., or 0.2474 acres. 

Hectare, (100 ai-es) 119G0.33 square yds, or 2.473G acres. 

CAP.\CITY. 

Millilitre, (l,000tb of a litre, or cubic cen- 
timetre) 0.06103 cubic inches. 

Centilitre,' (100th of a litre) 0.61027 cubic inches. 

Decilitre, (10th of a litre) 6.10270 cubic inches. 

Litre, (cubic decimetre and unit of ca- 
pacity) 610.2705 cubic inches, or 2.2010 £?alls. 

Decalitre, (10 litres) 61.02705 cubic inches, or 1.7608 pts. 

Hectohtre, ( 100 litres) 3.53106 cubic feet, or 22.0097 galls. 

Kilolitre, (1,000 litres, or cubic metre.) . 35.3 1658 cubic feet, or 220.0967 galls. 

Myriahtre, (10,000 litres) 353. 1658 cubic feet, or 2200.9667 galls. 

SOLID. 

Decistere, (10th of a store) 3.531 7 cubic feet. 

Stere, (cubic metre) 35.3166 cubic feet. 

Decastere, (10 stores) 353.1658 cubic feet. 

WEIGUT. 

Milligramme, (1,000th of a gramme) — 0.0154 grains. 

Centigramme, (100th of a gramme) 0.1544 grains. 

Decigramme, (10th of a gramme) 1.5440 grains 

Gramme, (unit of weight) 15.44 grains. 

Decagramme, (10 grammes) 154.4 grains. 

Hectogramme, (100 grammes) 1544 grains, 3.2167 oz. troy, or 3.5291 

oz. avoirdupois. 

Kilogramme, (1,000 grammes) 32^ oz. troy, or 2.2057 lbs. avoirdupois. 

Myriagramme, (10,000 grammes) 32I50Z. troy, or 22.057 lbs. avoirdupois. 

Value of viUlimetrcs in English incJies. 



Millimetres. 


English inches. 


; Millimetres. 


English inches. 


Millimetres. 


English inches. 


] 


0. 03937079 
0. 07874158 
0.11811237 
0.15748316 
0. 19()H5395 
0. 2:;()22474 
0. 27559553 
0.31496332 
0.354 53711 
0. 39370790 
0. 5905 
0. 7874 
0. 9842 
1.1811 
1.3779 
1. 5748 


45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

70 

75 

80 

85 

90 

95 

100 

105 

110 

115 

120 


1.7716 
1.968 
2. 165 
2. 362 
2. 559 

2. 756 
2. 953 
3. 149 

3. 346 
3.543 

3. 740 
3. 937 

4, 134 
4. 331 
4. .-.28 
4. 744 


125 

130 

135 

140 

145 

150 

155 

KiO 

165 

170 

17.- 

180 

185 

190 

195 

200 


4 941 


2 


5 118 


3 


5 315 


4 


5 51"' 


5 


5 708 


6 


5 906 




6 103 


8 


6 -'99 


9 


o! 496 


10 


6.693 


15 


6.890 


20 


7; 087 


25 


7. 284 


30 


7. 480 


35 


7.677 


40 


7.874 







412 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Tabic for the conversion of degrees of Centigrade thermometers into those of 

FakrenUeiC s scale. 



Cent. 


Ftih. 


Cent. 


Fiih. 


Cent. 


Fah. 


Cent. 


Fab. 


—100 


—148.0 


—49 


—56. 2 


2 


35. 6 


53 


127.4 


— 99 


—146.2 


—48 


—54. 4 


3 


37.4 


54 


129.2 


— 98 


-144.4 


—47 


—52. 6 


4 


39.2 


55 


131.0 


— 97 


—142.6 


—46 


—50. 8 


5 


41.0 


56 


132.8 


— 9U 


—140. 8 


—45 


—49. 


6 


42.8 


57 


134.6 


— 93 


— 139.0 


—41 


—47. 2 


7 


44.6 


58 


136.4 


— 94 


—137.2 


—43 


—45. 4 


8 


46.4 


59 


138.2 


— 93 


-135.4 


—42 


—43. 6 


9 


48. 2 


60 


140.0 


— 92 


—133.6 


—41 


—41.8 


10 


50. 


61 


141.8 


— 91 


—131.8 


—40 


—40.0 


11 


51.8 


62 


143. 6 


— 90 


—130.0 


—39 


—38. 2 


12 


53. 6 


63 


145.4 


— 89 


—128.2 


—3d 


—36. 4 


13 


55. 4 


64 


147.2 


— 88 


—126.4 


—37 


—34. 6 


14 


57.2 


65 


149.0 


— 87 


— 124.6 


—36 


—32. 8 


15 


59. 


66 


150.8 


— 86 


—122. 8 


—35 


—31.0 


16 


60.8 


67 


152. G 


_ 85 


—121.0 


—34 


—29. 2 


17 


62.6 


68 


154. 4 


— 84 


—119.2 


—33 


—27. 4 


18 


64.4 


69 


156. 2 


— 83 


—117.4 


—32 


—25. 6 


19 


66. 2 


70 


158.0 


— 82 


—115.6 


—31 


—23.8 


20 


68.0 


71 


159.8 


— 81 


—113.8 


—30 


—22. 


21 


69.8 


72 


1()1.6 


— 80 


—112.0 


—29 


—20. 2 


22 


71.6 


73 


163.4 


— 79 


—110.2 


—28 


—18.4 


23 


73.4 


74 


165.2 


— 78 


-108.4 


—27 


—16.6 


24 


75. 2 


7.5 


167.0 


— 77 


— 106.6 


—26 


—14. 8 


25 


77.0 


76 


168.8 


— 7G 


—104.8 


—25 


—13.0 


26 


78.8 


77 


170. 6 


— 75 


—103.0 


—24 


—11.2 


27 


81). 6 


78 


172. 4 


— 74 


—101.2 


—23 


— 9.4 


28 


82.4 


79 


174. 2 


— 73 


— 99. 4 


—22 


— 7.6 


29 


84.2 


80 


176. 


— 72 


— 97.6 


—21 


— 5.8 


30 


86.0 


81 


177. 8 


— 71 


— 95. 8 


—20 


— 4.0 


31 


87.8 


82 


179.6 


— 70 


— 94.0 


-19 


— 2.2 


32 


89.6 


83 


181.4 


— 69 


— 92. 2 


—X'^ 


— 0.4 


33 


91.4 


84 


183. g 


— 68 


— 90. 4 


—17 


+ 1.4 


34 


93.2 


85 


18.5.0 


— 67 


— 88.6 


—16 


3.2 


35 


95.0 


86 


186.8 


— 66 


— 86.8 


—15 


5.0 


36 


96.8 


87 


188.6 


— 65 


— 85.0 


—14 


6.8 


37 


98.6 


88 


190.4 


— 64 


— 83.2 


—13 


8.6 


38 


100.4 


89 


192.2 


— 63 


— 81.4 


-12 


10.4 


39 


102.2 


90 


194.0 


— 62 


— 79. 6 


-11 


12. 2 


40 


104.0 


91 


195. 8 


— 61 


— 77.8 


—10 


14.0 


41 


105.8 


92 


197. 6 


— 60 


— 76.0 


— 9 


15.8 


42 


107.6 


93 


199.4 


— 59 


— 74.2 


— 8 


17.6 


43 


109.4 


94 


201.2 


— 58 


— 72.4 


— 7 


19.4 


44 


111.2 


95 


203. 


— 57 


— 70. 6 


— 6 


21.2 


45 


113.0 


96 


204. 8 


— 56 


— 68. 8 


— 5 


23. 


46 


114.8 


97 


206. 6 


- 55 


— 67.0 


— 4 


24.8 


47 


116.6 


98 


208.4 


— 54 


— 65.2 


— 3 


26. 6 


48 


118.4 


99 


210.2 


— 53 


— 63. 4 


— 2 


28.4 


49 


120.2 


100 


212. 


— 52 


— 61.6 


— 1 


30,2 


50 


122.0 


* 101 


213.8 


— 51 


— 59. 8 


— 


32.0 


51 


123. 8 


102 


215. 6 


— 50 


— 58.0 


+ 1 


33.8 


52 


125.6 


103 


217.4 



CONTENTS. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Letter of the Chancellor and Secretary to Congress 3 

Letter of the Secretary submitting Report for 18G3 4 

Officers and Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 5 

Members ex officio and honorary members of the Institution 6 

Programme of Organization 7 

Report of the Secretary, Prof. Henry, for 1863 ]3 

Report of the Assistant Secretary, Prof. Baird, for 18G3 44 

Statistics of international exchanges 45 

Donations to the museum in 1863 58 

List of Smithsonian publications in 1 863, and works in press .^ 62 

List of meteorological stations and observers 64 

Report of the Executive Committee 74 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents 77 

Extracts from Correspondence 80 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Lectures on the Principles of Linguistic Science, by Prof. W. D. Whitney. 1>5 

Memoir of C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRfc, by M. Elie de Beaumont. 117 

Origin and History of the Royal Society of London, prepared by C. A. 

Alexander 137 

Modern Theory of Chemical Types, by Dr. Charles M. Wetherill 153 

Researches on the Phenomena which Accompany the Propagation of 

Electricity in Highly Rarefied Elastic Fluids, by Prof. A. de la Rive 169 
Report on the Proceedings of the Society of Physics and Natural His- 
tory OF Geneva, from July, 1862, to June, 1863, by Prof. Marcet 193 

Experimental and Theoretical Researches on the Figures of Equili- 
brium OF a Liquid Mass withdrawn from the Action of Gravity, &c., 

by Piof. J. Plateau, (39 wood-cuts) 207 

History of Discovery Relative to Magnetism 286 

Recent Researches Relative to the Nebulae, by Prof. Gautier 299 

Figure of the E.\rth, by Sr. Miguel Merino 306 

Aeronautic Voyages performed with a View to the Advancement of 

Science, Account of, by Francis Arago 331 

Account of Balloon Ascensions, by James Glaisuer 349 

Account of the Aboriginal Inhabitants of the Californian Peninsula, 

by Baegert, translated by Prof. C. Rau 352 

ETHNOLOGY.— Account of Kicekken-Moedding in Nova Scotia, by J. M. 

Jones, of Halifax 370 

Abstract of the Fifth Report of Dr. Keller on Lacus- 

trian Settlements, by A. MoRLOT 372 

Agricultural Implements of the North Ajvierican Stone 

Period, by Cilvrles Rau, (2 wood-cuts) 379 



414 CONTENTS. 

FAOE. 

ETHNOLOGY.— Account of Ancient Fort and Burial Ground in Tomp- 
kins County, New York, by David Trowbridge 381 

Account of Ancient Town in Minnesota, by O. H. Kelley. 382 
Account of Ancient Relics found in Missouri, by J. W. 

Foster 38;^ 

Account of a Mound in East Tennessee, by A. F. Dan- 

ILSEN 384 

Purple and Azure Dyeing, Ancient and Modern, translated from Aus der 

Natur 385 

Method of Preserving Lepidoptera, by Titian R. Peale, (4 wood-cuts)... 404 

Account of a Remarkable Accumulation of Bats, by M. Figanierre t 

MoRAO, Portuguese minister to the United States 407 

Tables op Weights and Measures 410 



INDEX. 



PAOE. 

Aboriginal inhabitants of California. Account of 352 

Aeronautic voyages. Account of 331, 349 

Agassiz, Prof. L. Remarks on operations pf the Institution 79 

Agricultural Department. Aid from, for meteorology 32 

Agricultural implements of the North American stone period, by C. Rau 379 

Ainsa meteorite. Account of 55, 86 

Alexander,' C. A. History of the Royal Society of London 137 

Translations by 117,169,193,207,286,299,306,331,372 

Allen, Dr. H. Monograph of the bats 25, 27 

Annuity to mother of nephew of Smithson 14 

Antiquities. Directions for collecting 25 

Antiquities of the North American stone period 379 

Antiquities in California 352 

Nova Scotia 370 

Duchy of Parma 373 

Italy 373 

Lake of Constance 374 

Frauenfeld 374 

Zug 375 

Ebersberg 375 

Zurich -. 376 

Savoy 376 

NeuchStel 377 

Illinois 379 

Tompkins county, New York 381 

Crow river, Minnesota 382 

Missouri 383 

East Tennessee 384 

Arago's account of aeronautic voyages 331 

Aurora. Eleven years' period of 18 

Azui-e and purple dyeing 385 

Bache, Prof. A. D. Magnetic observations at Girard College 16, 18 

Baegert, Jacob. Account of aborigines of Californian peninsula 352 

Baird, Prof. S. F., on the birds of North America 36 

Report of, for 1863 44 

Bats. Account of remarkable accumulation of 407 

Monograph of, by Dr. H. Allen 27 

Balloon ascensions by Glaisher 349 

Balloons. Account of voyages in 331 

Beaumont, Elie de. Memoir of Beautemps-Beaupr6 117 

Beautemps-Beaupr6. Memoir of 117 

Bequests and donations. Policy respecting 77 

Binney, W. G. Bibliography of conchology 22,23 

Bradford, L. H. Photographs of medulla oblongata 20 

British Museum. Cuts of shells from 22 



416 INDEX. 

PAOE. 

Califoruia. Account of aboiigincs of 352 

Carpenter, P. P. Works ou shells 22 

Ciitalngue of transactions in the library 40 

Chelonia. Account of researches on, by Mitcliell and Morehouse ir> 

Chemical types. Theory of 153 

Chinook jargon 4t 24, 26 

Collections of natural history. Object of 35 

Special notices of 36 

Rules for disposition and use of 37 

Colleges furnishing meteorological records 70 

Conchology. Smithsonian works on 21 

Cou*i-in-cone, from Henry Poole, Nova Scotia 87 

Contributions to knowledge. Account of vol. xiii 15 

Account of vol. xiv 16 

Costa Kica. Explorations in 54 

Coues, Dr. E. Monograph of Laridse, or gulls 16 

Cuba. Explorations in 55 

Daa, Louis Kr. Letter from, with ethnological specimens 89 

Dauilscn, A. F. Antiquities in Tennessee and Oregon 384 

Dean, Dr. John. Researches ou medulla oblongata 16, 19 

De la Rive. Ou propagation of electricity in rarefied elastic fluids 169 

Department of Agriculture. Meteorological operations of 32 

De Saussure. On Hymenoptera 24 

Directions for preserving Lepidoptera 404 

Distribution of specimens and collections 38, 57 

Donations to the museum in 1863 58 

Draper, Dr. H. Astronomical photography 16 

Dyeing. Azure and purple, ancient and modern 385 

Earth. Investigations relative to form and size 306 

Ecuador. Collections from 55 

Education. Project of, history of, by F. A. Packard 82 

Egleston, T. Check list of minerals 24, 25 

Electricity. De la Rive on propagation of, in rarefied elastic fluids 169 

Entomology. Directions for preserving Lepidoptera 404 

Smithsonian works on 23 

Ethnological instructions 25 

specimens from Norway 88 

Ethnology. Articles on 370 

Smithsonian labors in 29 

Exchanges. Account of, and statistics 39, 44, 46 

Explorations. Account of 39, 52 

Figanicrre, M. de. Account of remarkable accumulation of bats 27, 407 

Figure of the earth, by Merino 300 

Finances of the Institution 1 3, 74 

Fischer, Dr. J. G. Letter on Amphibia 90 

Fossils from Imperial Geological Institute of Austria 89 

Idaho, Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas 20 

Foster, J. W. Antiquities in Missouri 383 

Gautier. Researches relative to the uebula3 299 

Gibbs, George. Chinook jargon 24, 26 

Comparative vocabulary 24, 26 

Ethnological instructions 24, 25 

Glaisher, James. Uulloon ascensions by .- . 349 



INDEX. 417 

PAGE. 

Gould, B. A. On Piazzi's observations 80 

Graham, Colonel J. D. Meteorological system under direction of 33 

Groat Britain. Number of institutions in, receiving exchuuges from Smithsonian... 14 

Guano _ 491 

Guatemala. Explorations in 54 

Haidinger, W. Letter from, with fossils 89 

Letter relative to the Martius medal ■ 91 

Hayden, F. V. Collections by ijl 

Palaeontology of the Upper Missouri 16, 20 

Henry, Prof Jos. On figures of equilibrium of liquid mass withdrawn from gravity. 207 

Report of 13 

History of discovery relative to magnetism 286 

the Royal Society 137 

Hog-flesh. Diseases and death caused by eating 203 

Hopkins, E. M. Letter relative to Robert Kenuicott 9i 

Hudson's Bay Company. Scientific labors of 53 

Hungarian National Museum. Letter from 88 

Indian grammars aud vocabularies 30 

Insects. Smithsonian works on 23 

Irwin, Dr. B. J. D. On great Tucson meteorite 85 

Jamaica. Explorations in 54 

Jardine, Dr. On general museums t 39 

Jones, J. M. Account of KjcEkken-madding in Nova Scotia .*. . 370 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents 77 

Keller, Dr. Fifth report on Lacustrian settlements 372 

Kelley, O. H. Antiquities in Minnesota 3S2 

Kennicott, Robprt. Collections and explorations 36, 52 

Letter from E. M. Hopkins relative to 91 

Laboratory. Researches in 34 

Lacustrian settlements. Fifth report of Dr. Keller on : 372 

Lard-oil. Experiments on, by Prof. Henry 34 

Lectures during 1863-64 41 

Prof. W. D. Whitney's, on linguistics 95 

Legacy of Smithson, Residuary 14 

Lepidoptera. Method of preserving 404 

Library of the Institution 40 

Light. Experiments on, by Prof. Henry 34, 35 

Linguistic science. Whitney's lectures on 95 

Letters. Secretary to Congress 4 

Chancellor aud Secretary to Congress 3 

B. A. Gould on a new discussion of observations of Piazzi 80 

F. A. Packard on education 82 

Carte del Palasio's Agricuhural Association, on exchanges 84 

Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux, on exchanges 84 

Dr. Irwin, on " great meteorite " 85 

Santiago Ainsa, on meteorite 86, 87 

Henry Poole, on " cone-iu-conc " 87 

Hungarian National Museum, thanks 88 

Ethnological Museum of University of Christiana, Norway 88 

Imperial Geological Institute of Austria, presenting fossils 89 

British Museum, granting wood-cuts 90 

Dr. J. G. Fischer, on Amphibia 90 

E. M. Hopkins, Hudson's Bay Company, on Kennicott's explorations. 91 

W. Haidinger, gold medal lor Martius .- 91 



418 INDEX. 

PAGE. 

Loevv, H. On Diptera 24 

Magnetic observations by Prof. Baeho IG 

Magnetism. History of discovery relative to 286 

Marcet. Eeport of progress in physics, &c 103 

Martins. Gold medal lor 91 

Meade, General G. G. Meteorological system under 33 

Medulla oblongata. Eesearches on, by Dr. J. Dean 19 

Meek, F. B. Check list of cretaceous and Jurassic fossils 22, 23 

Explorations in New Jersey and Virginia 39 

Palaeontology of the Upper Missouri 16, 20 

Members ex officio of the Institution 6 

Memoir of C. F. Beautcmps-Beaupre, by Elie de Beaumont 1 17 

Merino, M. On the figure of the earth -306 

Meteorite. Aiusa, or Tucson 55, 85 

Meteorological bulletin of Paris Observatoiy 34 

material received in 1863 71 

obsei-vations. Eesults of, 1854-'59, 2d vol. of 33 

stations and observers 64 

Meteorology. Smithsonian labors in 31 

Telegraph applied to purposes of 38 

United States lake system 33 

Naval Hospital system 33 

Mexico. Explorations in 54 

Minerals. Check list of 25 

Mitchell, Dr. B. E. Jargon 26 

Mitchell, Dr. S. W. Eesearches on Chelonia 15 

Morehouse, Dr. George R. Researches on Cheloniu 15 

Morlot, A. Antiquities of Europe 372 

MuUer, F. New agent of exchanges for Holland 40 

Murexiue .• 399 

Museum and collections. Account of 39, 52 

Museum. List of donations in 1 8G3 58 

Natural history. Report of progress in 193 

Special collections of 36 

Nebulae. Gautier's researches relative to 299 

Norton, E. On Hymenoptera 24 

Nova Scotia. Antiquities in 370 

Officers of the Smithsonian Institution 5 

Oil. Experiments on 34 

Osteu Sacken, Baron. On Diptera 23, 24 

Packard, F. A. Project of history of education 1 82 

Paltuontology of Upper Missouri, by Jleek and Hayden 20 

Pauizzi, A. Electrotypes of shells granted 90 

Patent Office. Aid from, for meteorology 31 

Peale, T. R. Method of preserving Lepidoptera 404 

Philology. Instmctions relative to 25 

Physics. Report of progress in 193 

Piazzi. Obsei'vations of 80 

Plateau, J. Eesearches on figures of equilibrium of a liquid mass 207 

Poole, Henry. On " cone-in-cone " 87 

Pork. Death from eating 203 

Preservation of Lepidoptera. Method of 404 

Prime, Temple. On Corbiculadae 22, 23 



INDEX. 419 

PAGE. 

Printing. Report on, for 1863 44 

Programme of organization of the Institution 7 

Publications of the Institution. General account of 14 

in 1863 62 

Pui-ple dyeing. Ancient and modem 385 

Eau, Charles. Agricultural implements of the North American stono period 379 

Translation of Baegert's account of aborigines of California 352 

Kegents. 'Journal of proceedings of 77 

Kegents of the Institution. List of 5 

Eeport of the Executive Committee for 1863. .' 74 

Reports of the Institution. Account of 15, 27 

Rules for distributing 28 

Eeport on proceedings of Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, for 

1862-'03, by Marcet 193 

Royal Society of London. History of 137 

Eush, Richard. Part of bequest left in England by 14 

Shea, J. G. Aid rendered philological publications of ^ 29 

Shells. Smithsonian works on - 21 

Smith, Buckingham. Pima grammar 31 

Smithson. Will of 7 

Stereotyping Smithsonian publications 29 

Stimpson, W. Catalogue of shells of east coast 22,23 

Tables of weights and measures ' 410 

Taylor, Alexander S. Original MSS. from 29 

■ Telegraph applied to meteorology 33, 34 

Transportation. Account of 44 

facilities granted the -Institution 40 

Trichiniasis. Account of 203 

Trinidad. Explorations in 54 

Trowbridge, D. Antiquities in Tompkins county. New York 381 

Tucson meteorite ^5 

Turner, Prof. W. W. Jargon 26 

Turtles. Researches on, by Mitchell and Morehouse 16 

Tiyon, G. W. Catalogue of Melanidae 22,23 

Uhler, P. R. On Homoptera and Hemiptera 24 

Vocabulary of English, French, Spanish, and Latin 26 

Warren, G. K. Expedition by 21 

Weights and measmes. Tables of 410 

WetheriU, Dr. Charles M. Theory of chemical types 153 

Whitney, Prof. W. D. Aid rendered in philology * 25 

Lectures on principles of linguistic science 42, 95 

Wyman, Prof. J. Physiological researches by 16 

Xantus, John. Explorations in Mexico 36,39,53 



SMfTHSONIAN INSTtTUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6220 



SMfTHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6220 



