ANNUAL REPORT 



OF Mil". 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES. AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR THE 

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 189.5. 

REPORT 

OF THE 

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



WASHINGTON: 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1893. 



Fifty-second Congress, Second Session. 

Resolved by the Senate ( the House of Representatives concurring), That there bo printed 
of the reports of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National Museum for the 
year ending June 30, 1892, in two octavo volumes, 10,000 extra copies; of which 1.000 
copies shall be for the use of the .Senate, 2,000 copies for the use of the House of 
Representatives, ">.000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, and 2,000 
copies for the use of the National Museum, 



RM30 



REPORT 



3 7 



U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 



UNDKR T1IK DIRECTION OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



YEAR ENDINft JUNE 3 0, 1«!>Q 



REPORT OF THE II. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 30, 1892. 



SUBJECTS. 

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
in charge of the National Museum, upon the condition and 
progress of the Museum. 
IT. Reports of the Curators. 
I] I. Papers illustrative of collections in the II. S. National Museum. 
IV. Bibliography. 
V. List of accessions. 

V 



TI. S. National Museum 
Undek direction of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, December h 1892. 
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith ;i report upon the present 
condition of the IT. S. National Museum and upon the work accom- 
plished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending June 
80, lS'.rJ. 

Very respectfully, 

(1. Brown Goode, 
Assistant Secretary in charge of U. 8. National Museum. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



C O N T E N T S. 



Page. 

Subjects v 

Letter op Transmittai vii 

Contexts * ix 

List of Illustrations xm 

Section I. — Report op the Assistant Secretary in charge op the 

National Museum. 

A. — General considerations 3 

Principal sources of the collections 4 

B.— Special topics of the year r 6 

Increase in the collections 6 

Increase in the Museum library : 6 

Decreased edition of the reports of the Smithsonian Institution and 

National Museum 6 

Visitors G 

Museum appropriations for 18!L'-'!'3 G 

Proposed additional Museum building G 

Representation of the United States at the Madrid Exposition 7 

Necrology 7 

C. — The condition of the collect ions 8 

Census of the collections 8 

Catalogue entries 11 

Development and arrangement of the exhibition scries 11 

D.— The Museum staff 13 

The scientific staff 13 

List of curators, assistant curators, and aids 13 

The administrative statf 14 

E. — Review of work in the scientific departments 14 

Division of anthropology 14 

1 Hvision of zoology 17 

Division of botany 22 

Division of geology 23 

F. — Review of the administrative work 23 

Registration and distribution 23 

Geographical statement of the distribution of specimens during the 

year 24 

Library 31 

Specimens sent to the Museum for examination and report 32 

Foreign exchanges 45 

Publications 49 

Visitors 53 

Lectures and meetings of societies 54 

Students 55 

IX 



CONTENTS. 



F.— Review of the administrative work— Continued. 

Finance, propertj , supplies, and accounts 56 

( lorrespondence and reports 61 

Preparation of labels 63 

Buildings and labor — police and public comfort 63 

Tlie \\«>ik of the Museum preparators 64 

(4. — Accessions - 66 

Number of accessions annually since 1881 66 

Geographical review of the more important accessions 66 

II. Cooperation of the Departments and Bureaus of the Government 82 

1 >epartmeni of State 82 

Treasury Department 83 

War 1 >epartment and the Army 84 

Navy 1 >epartment and the Navy - 85 

1 department of the Interior 86 

I (eparl ment of Agriculture 89 

United States Fish Commission 91 

Department of Justice 92 

Bureau of Ethnology 92 

I. — Explorations 93 

Collectors' outfits 95 

Section II. — Reports of the Curators. 

Ethnology 101 

American aboriginal pottery 109 

Oriental antiquities Ill 

Historical collections 115 

Graphic aits 121 

Forestry .• 125 

Transportation and engineering 127 

Materia medica 133 

Prehistoric anthropology 135 

Mammals 143 

Birds 147 

Birds 3 eggs 153 

Reptiles and batrachians 155 

Fishes 159 

Mollnsks (including cenozoic fossils) .• 163 

Vertebrate fossils 169 

Insects 171 

.Marine in vert el nates 175 

Comparative anatomy 181 

Fossil plants 185 

Invertebrate fossils : 

1'aleozoic \{)\ 

Mesozoic 195 

Botany 197 

Minerals 201 

Geology 205 

Section HI.— Papers Describing and Illustrating Collections in the 

U. s. National Museum. 

1. Japanese Wood-cutting ami Wood-cut Printing. Communicated by Mr. T. 

Tokuno, and edited by S. R. Koehler 221 

2. The Relation of Biology to Geological Investigation. By Charles A. White 245 



CONTENTS. XI 

Page. 

3. Scientific Taxidermy for Museums. (Based on a study of the United Stales 

Government collections.) ByE. W. Shufeldt, M. j> 369 

4. The Shofar. By Dr. Cyrus Adler 437 

5. The Crump Burial Cave. By Frank Burns 451 

(!. Minute Stone Implements from India. By Thomas Wilson" 45") 

7. Comparative Oology of North American Birds. By R. W. Shufeldt, m.d.. 461 

Section IV. — Bibliography of the U. S. National Museum i oh the 
Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1892. 

I. Publications of the Museum 497 

II. Papers by officers of the National Museum and other investigators, whose 
writings are based directly or indirectly on the collections of the 
Museum 498 

Section V. — List of Accessions to the U. S. National Museum i>n:i.\<; 
the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1892. 

List of accessions 529 

Index A— By locality 579 

Index B — By departments in the National Museum 591 

General Iudex 603 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



TLATES. 



Facing page. 

Pl. i. Railroad monument at Bordentown, New Jersey 128 

ii. Bronze tablet on the railroad monument at Bordentown, New Jersey 128 

m. Diagram showing arrangement of cases in Department of Geology, June 30, 1832. 217 

iv. Tools used by Japanese woodcutters 222 

v. Tools used by Japanese wood cutters 222 

vi. Japanese wood-cutter at work 221 

vil. Tools and appliances used by Japanese wood-cut printers 230 

viii. Tools and appliances used by Japanese wood cut printers 230 

ix. A. Japanese wood cut printer at work 230 

x. Baren and its parts 230 

XI. Method of using Baren 232 

xii. Method of using Baren 232 

xin. Registering 232 

XIV. Table showing the time range of certain kinds of animals and plants 303 

xv. Octopus, Octopus vulgaris 388 

XVI. Common squid, Sepia officinalis, rf 'jg8 

xvii. Histioteuthis bonelliana 388 

XVIII. AnnelidsT 

Fig. 1. Polynoe leucohyba. 

2. Gastrolepidia clavigera 388 

xix. A Marine worm, Boncllia viridis 388 

xx. Skate, Jiaia crinacea 394 

xxi. Shark, Carcharhinut obscurus, and Remora, Echeneis uai'crats 30G 

xxu. Nurse shark, Ginylymostoma cirratum 396 

XXlll. Turhot, Rhombus maximus 396 

xxiv. Fig. 1. Parrot-fish, Searus sp.? 

2. Common pompano, Traehi/notus carolin us 398 

xxv. Fig. 1. Mirror carp, Cyprinus carpio. 

2. Buffalo- fish, Ictiobus uruB 400 

xxvi. The Mudfish, Amia calva 400 

xxvii. Common garter snake, Eutcenia sii talis 402 

XXVIII. Rattlesnake, Crotalus adamantcus 402 

xxix. Ancistrodon piscivorus 4114 

xxix la). Monitor gouLdi 404 

xxx. Sistrurus miliarias 41)4 

xxxi. Bull frog ! 404 

xxxii. Soft-shelled turtle, Atpidonectesferox, ad did 

xxx 111. Box tortoise, Cist ado clausa 406 

xxxiv. Gopher, Gopherus ajassizi 406 

xxxv. Tupinambis teyuixin 406 

xxxvi. Old and improved methods of mounting a penguin 406 

xxxvil. Fig. 1. The Great Auk, Plautus impennis. 

2. The Great Auk, Pla utus impennis 406 

xxxvm. Ring-billed gull, Larus occidentalis, juv 408 

xxxjx. Swallow-tailed gull, Creagrus furcatus 408 

xl. Black ducks and young, A nas obscu ra 408 

XLI. Method of mounting diuruuli»a^<y;w, einp.oved in the British Museum 410 

XIII 



XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Facing page. 

T>l. xi.n. Method of mounting diurnal Raptores, employed in tlie British Mizseum 410 

xi.m. A scolding parrot 410 

xliv. Fig. 1. Parrot on the defensive. (Rear view.) 

•_'. Parrot on the defensive. (Front view.) 410 

xlv. Male hornbill feeding imprisoned female - 410 

xi.vi. Indian game lien, "Lady Whitfield" 412 

xlvii. Indian game cock (dubbed) 412 

xi.viii. Bead of Indian game cock (undubbed) nearly life size. 
Fig. 1. (Front view.) 

2. (Lateral view.) 412 

xi.ix. Fig. 1. Black Sumatra cock. 

2. White-faced black Spanish cock 412 

i . Silver-spangled Hamburg hen 412 

LI. I '.lack Sumatra cock 412 

Ml. Brown Leghorn cock 412 

Mil. Black Sumatra cock 412 

MV. Light Brabmacock 414 

lv. Light Brahma hen 414 

lvi. Common dove-cote pigeon. (Dozing.) 416 

lvii. Common dove-cote pigeon 416 

lviii. Fig. 1. Pigeon, black outside tumbler, <J . 

2. Dove-cote pigeon : 416 

MX. Fig. 1. Gambel's partridge, C.gambeli, cf- 

2. Quail, Colinus, ? 418 

i.x. Gambel's partridge, Callipepla gambeli, jf 418 

i.xi. California partridge, Callipepla californiea, ,-J 418 

lxii. Massena partridge, Cytonyx montezumce, cf - 418 

lxiii. Quail, (Minus, sp. cf 418 

LXIV. English pheasant 418 

lxv. Moor cock, T. tetrix, cf 418 

lxvi. Ruffed grouse, Bonasa umbellus, on hough 418 

lxvii. Pig. 1. Dusky grouse Dendragapus obscurus. 

2. Richardson's grouse, Dendragapus canadensis richardsoni 418 

lxviii. Wild turkey, Meleagris gallopavo 418 

lxix. Heads of wild turkeys, Meleagris gallopavo '. 418 

lxx. Screech owl, Megascops <tsi<> 420 

lxxi. Great horned owl, Bubo Virginian us 420 

lxxii. Great horned owl, Bubo Virginian us 420 

Lxxm. Baltimore oriole, Icterus galbula, $ 420 

lxxiv. Great rock kangaroo, Macropv* robustus, H" 422 

lxxv. Defective specimens, including a badly mounted kangaroo 422 

lxxvi. Group of ai-madillos, Tatusia novem-cincta 422 

lxxvi («) . Spotted porpoise, Prodelphin usplagiodon 422 

lxxvii. Flying lemur or colugo, Galeopithecus volans 422 

lxxviii. Thomson's gazelle, Gaze.Ua thomsonii 424 

lxxtx. Group of American bison, Bison americanus 424 

lxxx. Musk ox, Ovibos moschatus 424 

lxxxi. Head i if zebra, Eq was btt rehellii 424 

LXXXH. African elephant "Mungo," Elephas africanus, juv.' 426 

lxxxiii. Fig.l. Western "prairie dog," Oynomys columbianus, '■ 

2. Western l ' prairie dog," Oynomys columbianus, cf 426 

lxxxiv. "Jack rabbit," Lepus callotis callotis, cf 426 

lxxxv. White or Polar hear, Thalassarctos maritimus 428 

I.XXXVI. Fig. 1. Manikin for a walrus. 

2. Walrus. Odobcenus obesus, 7 430 

lxxxvii. Walrus, Odobcenut obesus, cf 430 

i.xxxvi ii. American badger, Taxidea a, americanus 432 

Lxxxix. A group of coyotes, Canis In trans 432 

v . Fig.l. Hairless Mexican terrier. 

2. Lynx, Lynx rufus 432 

vi. Head of tiger, Fells tigris 432 

xcii. <; roup of Labrador ducks, Camptolaimus labradorius. 436 

xcm. A pair of Louisiana water thrushes, Siurus motacilla, and nest ' 436 

XCiv. Group of robins in the American Museum of Natural History, New York City... 436 

xcv. Group of opossums 436 

xcvi. Indian rhinoceros ' ' Borabi, " lihinoceros unicornis ..,„.„ 436 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XV 

Facing page. 

T'l. xcvii. Shofars and other horns 438 

xcvih. Shofars 440 

xcix. Shofars i 44-2 

c. Shofars 444 

ci. Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Objects illustrating prehistoric burials 452 

en. A series of minute prehistoric stone implements from caverns in the Vimlva Hills. 

India 456 

CHI. Minute prehistoric stone implements from central and southern France 450 

TEXT FIGURES. 

Fig. 1 . Japanese wood-cutter's knife 223 

_'. An European wood-cutter of the XVI century 233 

3. The knife used by Papillon 234 

4. Papillon 's manner of holding the knife 235 

5. Two of printers' balls 238 



SECTION I. 

R E P R T 

UPON THE 

MDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1892. 



G. BROWN GOODE, 

ASSISTANT SKCKETAUY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, IN CHARGE 
OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



Ii. Mis. 114, i»t. 1' 1 



REPORT 

ri'ox 

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S, NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1892. 

BY 

<;. Brown Goode, 
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of U. S. National Museum. 



A.— GENERAL ( OXSIDERATIONS. 

The report now presented relates to the operations of the National 
Museum during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891'. 

The history of the origin and development of the National Museum 
has been discussed in previous reports, both in the introductory pages 
and in a paper published in the report for 1891, entitled "The Genesis 
of the National Museum."* It will therefore be sufficient for our pres- 
ent purpose to repeat a few of the most essential facts. 

The Smithsonian Institution was established by act of Congress in 
1816. One of the provisions of the act was that all objects of art and 
of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, 
and geological and mineralogieal specimens belonging to the United 
States, should be placed in the custody of the Smithsonian Institution. 
As one of the results of this provision, the collections, both of ethno- 
logical and natural history objects, made by the numerous Government 
exploring expeditions, came into the possession of the Institution. 
These, with the " National Cabinet of Curiosities," which was exhibited 
in the Patent Office building, and which Avas transferred to the Smith- 
sonian Institution in 1858, formed an important nucleus around which 
thousands of other collections have since gathered. The " National 
Cabinet of Curiosities" wns a name given to the collections of the 
"National Institution," which was organized six years before the act 
creating the Smithsonian Institution had been passed. 

The National Museum thus grew up under the care of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and the Secretary of the Institution was appointed 
by Congress "Keeper of the Collections." 

P. 273. 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The National Museum has been recognized as such by Congress for 
many years, but it was not until 1879 that an appropriation was made, 
providing money tor the construction of ;i building especially intended 
for the display of the national collections. This action of Congress 
had been doubtless precipitated by the large increase made in the col- 
lections of the Government at the (dose of the Centennial Exhibition 
in 187G. The building was completed in L881, during which year the 
collections were in part transferred to it from the Smithsonian building. 
In the following year a careful estimate of the extent of the collections, 
including the results of Government expeditions and gifts from private 
individuals, showed that the total number of specimens in the National 
Museum was 193,362. At the end of dune, 1802, this total had in- 
creased to 3,223,941. Thus in one decade from what was practically 
the date of occupancy of the Museum building, the collections have 
increased sixteenfold. This result is certainly very gratifying. The 
Museum building is, however, very much overcrowded, and a new build 
ing is urgently needed. The attention of Congress has been frequently 
called to this matter, but nothing has yet been done. If the present un- 
satisfactory conditions are to exist much longer. such a rate of increase 
in the collections will, as has been already pointed out. become exceed 
ingly embarrassing, and instead of endeavoring to interest people in 
contributing to the national collections, it will soon become necessary 
to discourage them from doing .so. Indeed, this policy has already 
been adopted in certain instances, and (he National Museum has lost 
control of several large and important collections. In the ease of col 
lections made by various branches of the Government, the Museum is 
obliged by law to receive them, having been appointed by Congress 
the custodian of such collections. The necessity of receiving these 
makes it the more incumbent to decline offers from private sources. 

During the year the Museum has accomplished much in connection 
with the preparation of an exhibit for the World's Fair, to be opened 
in Chicago next May. In this the following departments of the Museum 
will be represented : Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, Fishes. Insects, Marine 
Invertebrates', Comparative Anatomy, Minerals, Physical Geology, Eth- 
nology, American Prehistoric Pottery, Prehistoric Anthropology; as 
well as several sections of the Department of Arts and Industries, viz.. 
Animal Products. Oriental Antiquities, Graphic Arts, and Musical 
Instruments. 

PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF THE COLLECTIONS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The collections of the National Museum are made up. to a very large 
extent, of the following materials: 

(1) The natural history and anthropological collections, accumu- 
lated since L850 by the efforts of the officers and correspondents of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5 

(2) Collections which have resulted from explorations carried oil 
more or less directly under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. 

(.">) Collections which have been obtained through, the courtesy of the 
Department of State and the cooperation of United States ministers 
and consuls. 

(4) Collections which have been obtained by naval expeditions, such 
as the Wilkes exploring expedition, the Perry expedition to .Japan, 
and other expeditions conducted by the Navy Department. 

(5) Collections made by the scientific officers of Government sur- 
veys, such as the Pacific railroad survey, the Mexican boundary survey, 
and the surveys carried on by the Engineer Corps of the IT. S. Army. 

(0) Collections made by officers of the Signal Corps of the U. S. 
Army, stationed in remote regions. 

(7) Collections obtained by the U. S. Geological Survey. 

(8) Collections made by officers of the U. S. Fish Commission. 

(0) Collections resulting from expeditions conducted by other depart- 
ments of the United States Government. 

(10) Collections resulting from explorations carried on by the Smith- 
sonian Institution in connection with educational institutions or com- 
mercial establishments. 

(11) Collections resulting from explorations conducted by private 
individuals. 

(12) The collections made by the United States to illustrate the ani- 
mal and mineral resources, the fisheries, and the ethnology of the 
native races of the country on the occasion of the International Exhi- 
bition at Philadelphia in 1870; the fishery collections displayed by the 
United States at the International Fisheries Exhibitions at Berlin in 
1880 and at London in 1883, and the collections obtained from various 
local expositions — as, for instance, the New Orleans Cotton Centennial 
Exposition in 1881 and 1885, and the Cincinnati Exposition in 1887. 

(13) The collections given by the governments of the several foreign 
nations, thirty in number, which participated in the Philadelphia exhi- 
bition in 1876. 

(14) The industrial collections given by numerous manufacturing 
and commercial houses of Europe and America at the time of the Phil- 
adelphia exhibition and subsequently. 

(15) The material received, in exchange for duplicate specimens, 
from museums in Europe and America, at the time of the Philadel- 
phia exhibition and subsequently. 

( Hi) Collections received as gifts, deposits, or in exchange, from indi- 
viduals, numbering usually from 1,000 to 1. 500 each year. 



6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

B.— SPECIAL TOPICS OF THE YEAR. 

INCREASE IN THE COLLECTIONS. 

During the year the collections have been increased by the addition 
of more than 228,000 specimens. These are, for the most part, contri- 
butions, and have been obtained without any special effort on the part 
of the Museum. The total number of specimens now in the collections 
is 3,223,941. 

INCREASE IN THE MUSEUM LIBRARY. 

The number of publications added to the Museum library during' the 
year was 11,892, including 693 volumes of more than 100 pages, 1,612 
pamphlets, and 8,486 parts of regular serials. 

DECREASED EDITION OF THE REPORTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The edition of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, including 
that of the National Museum, has been reduced by the Fifty-second 
Congress to 10,000 extra copies. 

VISITORS. 

The number of visitors to the Museum building duringthe year end- 
ing June 30, 1892, was 269,825, and during the same period 114,817 
persons visited the Smithsonian building. The total number of visit- 
ors since 1881 to the Museum building is 2,668,200, and to the Smith- 
sonian building, 1,196,498. 

MUSEUM APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1892-93. 

Preservation of collections $132,500 

Furniture and fixtures .• 15, 000 

Printing 12, 000 

Heating and Lighting 11,000 

Postage 500 

Total 171, 000 

This is $42,500 less than for the preceding year. 

PROPOSED ADDITIONAL MUSEUM RUILDING. 

On January 21, 1S92, the bill providing for a new Museum building 
was introduced in the Senate and referred to the Committee on Public 
Buildings and Grounds. It was favorably reported by this committee 
February 26, and passed the Senate April 14. The bill was referred to 
the same committee in the House of Representatives, but was not 
reported. It lias now passed the Senate three times, but has failed of 
action in the House. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

REPRESENTATION OF THE UNITED STATES AT THE MADRID EXPOSI- 
TION. 

In accordance witl) an act <>t Congress, approved May 13, 18!>2, the 
President appointed a commission to represent the United States at the 
Columbian Historical Exposition to be held in Madrid in L892, in com 
memoration of the fourth centenary of the discovery of America. The 
commission consisted of Rear-Admiral S. B.Luce, II. S. Navy, commis- 
sioner-general; Dr. James C. Welling, president of the Columbian Uni- 
versity, Washington, and Dr. G. Brown Goode, Assistant Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, commissioners. 

The act of Congress authorizing the participation of the Tinted 
States in the Madrid Exposition reads as follows: 

For the expense of representation of the United States at the Columbian Historical 
Exposition to be held in Madrid in eighteen hundred and ninety-two in commemora- 
tion of the fonr-hmidredth anniversary of the discovery of America., fifteen thousand 
dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be expended under the direction 
and in the discretion of the .Secretary ot State; and the President is hereby author- 
ized to appoint a commissioner-general and two assistant commissioners, who may, 
in his discretion, be selected from the active or retired list of the Army or Navy, and 
shall serve without other compensation than that to which they are now entitled by 
law, to represent the United States at said exposition; that it shall be the duty of 
such commissioners to select from the archives of the United States, from the National 
Museum, and from the various Executive Departments of the Government such 
pictures, books, papers, documents, and other articles as may relate to the discovery 
and early settlement of America and the aboriginal inhabitants thereof ; and they 
shall be authorized to secure the loan of similar articles from other museums and 
private collections, and arrange, classify, and install them as the exhibit of the United 
States at the said exposition; that the President is authorized to cause the detail of 
officers from the active or retired list of the. Army or Navy to serve without compen- 
sation other than that to which they are now entitled by law, as assistants to said 
commissioners; and the said commissioners shall lie authorized to employ such cleri- 
cal and other assistance as may be necessary, subject to the approval of the Secretary 
of State. 

NECROLOGY". 

Prof. H. X. Moseley, of Oxford, England, a highly valued correspond- 
ent of and contributor to the National Museum, died on November 10. 
1891. 

Prof. Sereno Watson, curator of the herbarium of Harvard Univer- 
sity, died March 9, 1892. Prof. Watson was recognized as one of the 
foremost botanists of the world, and was for many years a correspondent 
of the Museum. 

Another valued correspondent, Gen. Mariano Jimenez, governor of 
the State of Michoacan, Mexico, and founder of the museums of 
Oaxaca and Michoacan, died February 28, 1892. 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 
0.— THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS. 



CENSUS OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

Although no special effort has been made to increase the collections 
during the year, the accessions to the Museum since July, 1891, have 
exceeded that of the preceding fiscal year by 94,639 specimens, the 
total number of specimens received during the year covered by this 
report being 228,249, as is shown in the following' table: 



Departments. 



Arts and industries: 

Materia medica 

Domestic animals 

1 1 istorieal collections, coins, medals, et< 

Musical instruments 

Transportation and engineering 

Modern pottery, porcelain, and bronzes 

Graphic arts 

Ethnology 

American aboriginal pottery 

Prehistoric anthropologj 

Mammals (skins and alcoholics) - 

Birds 

Birds' eggs and nests 

Reptiles and batrachians 

Fishes 

Vertebrate fossils 

Mollusks (including cenozoic fossils) 

Insects 

Mai ine invertebrates 

Comparative anatomy : 

( teteology 

Anatomy 

Invertebrate fossils: 

Paleozoic 

Mesozoic 

Fossil plants 

Recent plants 

Minerals 

i leologv 



Number 
of speci- 
mens. 



207 

6 

4.50(1 

94 

265 

88 

200 

2.241 

1,817 

9, 326 

1,086 

5, 610 

• 3,004 

1,004 

1.900 

1, (Mil 

6,225 

10,50(1 
7, 120 

426 

869 

3,099 

100. 000 

53, 384 

4, 121 

4, 000 



228. 240 



The yearly growth of the collections since 1882 is presented in the 
following table, the total number of specimens now in the Museum 
being 3,223,941 : 



KEI'OKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



O ri 00 O -* 

a — x x a 



t- ^ ~i if ri — 



M ^ x ~ -r -f c-l — 
x — x X a l~ t~ O 

a^ — ricaa-t — 



I- O X X X 

I- a 



.— x re -r 






— — X M -f 



■^ O C. <~ I- so 
■_r :■: *,r x r— co 

X ri -* x> X 



x <r. :t S x 



a S -S 

L"> 7 



ri ri 71 X X 

— — -M I- -r 



ri r- -f x rr 

EO t- -r* b- 7i 
I- X — a: X 



— I- -r t~ 



ti ss c; N 
x 3 x f^ 



a a o => 



s t~ — — . o — :: C 



t— rH O . O i-i 00 ri 



pj n o o 



-+ I- X 

i5 ^r ~"l 



o Cj n oc n 



I- O O 1- - 



3 £ 

* S » q. a • 3: "^ 

= ; - « s t i. - * 



-r ri - m ■ - 

?i ?l i- I- h- 



o a 

3 O 

o O 

a' *r 



= f " 7; 1 ■= L ; : ' :| 






— ~ .s 



n O 

a c-j 

-* a 

o -+" 



a ]S — 






a ~ 

a x 

c — ft 



o— " 



._ — .= OJ 



X =m r = ; 








o 


a 












T. 








n p,S,o 






§■§££ 


a 


i 






5®-2Sj 


> 


fe 



— - es^, g , s „j 



a g ? s 



- .5 

a 3 



O 5pS 
> C 

a a - a - ■ 

§ - i 8* 

~ = - S ~ 



gftfeB 



. •= r - a 



o o .3 a :s 






5 & f? W C 






Ph : P.OUA 



J. - - _ 

g ^3 3 - :• a 



SSHrSfl 



^-i:-S 



10 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



r-ISOCOi-'COCMOr- 
-t Tl — Tl IT. l~ >-. X 

00 t -T O Oi rH T i — ' P5 



X -h 



'© ■— 5! :: IT. 



Tl r-l © © © 
— 1 1 O © i ~ 



CC r-t rt © 

IC © Tl — 



© r- O i* <N © © © 



ri © O C 

" - O 

30 — 



— i-; © 






-+ « L~ © 
t> t- © '-" 



[~~ © CC l- 



X lO CD IS 

-* © © tt 



© rw m © 
tjJ" ocf i^" © 

i-t -r CM 3 



•**©-*<© 



i- t- ~. ~ 



O © ~ x 

w ~r ti o 



© © © 



00 © © © © i-H 



© © © 



© © © © no 
© © as o t-< w 



© © 00 



-f w -r 



Tl r-l lO 



T-! f © 

r-i M l- 



:i o -< c 



o © © 



X Tl X — © 



© © © 



r-l X © 



Tl © © "^ O 

-r © -* © © 
i-' ©' x" © x> 



© © © 

©' r^' O 

© O © 

rH f-i « 



-t © © © » tH 
r-l © © © S CS 
!M O © © r- I (M 



TC © - L- 









— © © 






g-O <\ 



" - « :' S , 



k 3 fi 3 o 



F4 " 






•i. Z — 










B .5 J 


SB* 




r. •- c5 






S h c3 


=>.2.S 



-f? 5E~ c 



HI 






J&-S £' 



® g s 






sir 

oa -2 - * 

X _ - =W 

x -- — r 



a. 1 *■ - jg 



CD A © 



L-: ft; 

S 5 






- - - ~ 3 

-i - .- ~ d 
to --.— - 

=h - - B - 
3^3 ~ 



- - 
- fcO to — 

x »1fl B 



:f i 



« =H .C 



^••: 2 

o a s 



pa ■? go 



M-Sg S^ 



^ — ^. p,»-l 



o • 



a 



^ EG 

'— — -— 
^ ? = 
B - ~ 

i-- 



I? 

"o - 
= M 

J=.5 
II 



— >". 



«j 1 o 



x 

r. =■ 



-it ::i.r E-_: = 
,2 ST S i ■/. 'fi 

r ^ 3 i £ 5c 



i _ OS 

" J- ?..~« 2 j.= - S 

- ;/ - '" 

- n.O - 



bB O r-l 



~ r *--S«br<-^."ttO to CC 

ftS-'o - Sj -'" i^'€— 2 

C-, i — S — - . t V 4- - 

1' I i J " J 1 " | § Tr ~ *" « 
1 = — ~Z -"' £ o "-S ™ o "S^ 



■r= W CC *= 



~ ~ CC ftrH 

Z 2 rb £ „ s ^ a >•-•- S a £ 

C — B — ~ PAh C J — - H - 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



11 



CATALOGUE ENTRIES. 



The number of catalogue entries made in the books of the several 
departments during the year amounts to 40,550. One entry may include 
one specimen, or a number of specimens, if from the same locality, or 
several individuals of the same species. 



Departments. 



Materia raedica 

Historical collections 

Musical instruments 

Transportation and engineering 

Modern pottery 

Graphic arts 

Ethnology 

American aboriginal pottery 

Prehistoric anthropology 

Mammals 

Birds 

Birds' eggs and nests 

Reptiles and batrachians 

Fishes 

Vertebrate fossils 

Mollusks (including cenozoic fossils) 

Insects 

Marine invertebrates 

Comparative anatomy: 

Osteology 

Anatomy 

Paleozoic fossils 

Mesozoic fossils 

Recent plants 

Minerals 

Geology 



Number 

of 
entries. 



55 

T."j 

59 

161 

111 

179 

1,243 

18, 874 

1,268 

1,086 

5, (JU9 

840 

1,055 

55:? 

1, 124 

2 510 

295 

1,318 

574 

95 

419 

512 

1,451 

1,045 

40, 550 



DEVELOPMENT AND ARRANGEMENT OF THE EXHIBITION SERIES. 

The overcrowded condition of the Museum building has prevented 
any extensive changes in the arrangement of the exhibition halls. 
Although a large number of interesting objects has been received during 
the year in almost every department, it has not been possible to place 
them on exhibition. They have, therefore, for the most part been stored 
away until additional facilities for exhibition purposes shall have been 
obtained. This can only be brought about by the passage by Congress 
of an act authorizing the construction of an additional Museum build- 
ing. In spite of the many disadvantages under which the work of the 
Museum has been carried on during the year, considerable progress has 
been made in connection with the rearrangement of the collections on 
exhibition and in preparing specimens for installation, when it has been 
possible to provide the necessary space. 



12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892. 

The curator of the department of ethnology has continued to mount 
and label new specimens, which will be held in readiness for exhibition 
when practicable. A large number of specimens of aboriginal pottery, 
consisting mainly of fragments collected by the officers of the Bureau 
of Ethnology in the tide water districts of Maryland and Virginia, have 
been installed. In the section of graphic arts several important gaps 
have been filled. Table-cases have been placed in the alcoves to accom- 
modate new specimens, and considerable progress has been made in tin' 
substitution of printed for written labels. Several exhibits relating to 
the development of the railroad and telegraph have been added to the 
collections in the section of transportation and engineering. The col- 
lection of birds' eggs has been carefully rearranged and relabeled, 
and new insect-proof cases have been provided. Numerous illustra- 
tions have been added to the systematic series of insects, making it 
nearly complete. A large collection of vertebrate fossils, from regions 
in the west, secured by Prof. O. C. Marsh, in connection with his official 
work for the U, S. Geological Survey, has been placed upon exhibition. 
This collection is arranged in a wall-case especially constructed for it, 
extending the entire length of the east side of the exhibition hall. The 
collection of Cambrian and Ordovician fossils has been completed, 
labeled, and placed upon exhibition. A large collection of Mesozoic 
fossils has been received from the Geological Survey, and a part of it 
has been placed upon exhibition. The herbarium has been practically 
rearranged. New genus covers and genus labels have been substituted 
for the old ones. An entirely new arrangement of the exhibition series 
of fossil plants was begun during the year. Heretofore, the plants 
have been arranged with a view to illustrating the origin and develop 
ment of plant life, but it has been found desirable to substitute for this 
a geological arrangement. A large and exceedingly valuable collection 
of fossil plants has been presented by Mr. II. D. Lacoe, of Pittston, 
Pa., and portions of it will be placed upon exhibition as oppor- 
tunity offers. A considerable portion of the exhibition series in the 
department of minerals has been remounted on ebonized blocks, and 
the entire collection will soon be similarly provided for. Two large 
mahogany cases have been provided for the exhibition of the gems and 
semi precious stones. This collection embraces 2,215 specimens. There 
have been transferred to the exhibition hall about 1,800 specimens be- 
longing to the exhibition and study series, which had accumulated in 
the mineral laboratory. In the department of geology considerable 
time has been devoted to the installation, in the south-west court, of the 
economic series, which may now be said to be in an approximately sat 
isfactory condition. The collection of ores, tin, nickel, manganese and 
antimony are systematized, and temporary labels have, in most cases, 
been prepared. The laying of new pavements in the south-west court 
and west-south range necessitated the moving of all the floor-eases, 
and, incidentally, the rearrangement of the specimens. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13 

I).— Till: MUSEUM STAFF. 

THE SCIENTIFIC STAFF. 

Very few important changes in the personnel of the scientific depart- 
ments of the Museum have occurred during the year. 

Dr. James M. Flint. U. S. Navy, who has been honorary curator of 
the section of materia medica during- the greater part of the time since 
its organization, was recalled by the Secretary of the Navy in Novem- 
ber, 1891. tie was succeeded by Dr. John 0. Boyd, U. S. Navy, who 
remained until April <>, L892, when he was relieved by Dr. William S. 
Dixon, 17. S. Navy, who now occupies that position. 

There are at the present time thirty-two organized departments and 
sections in the Museum under the care of curators, including honorary 
and acting curators, and assistant curators. 

LIST OF CURATORS, ASSISTANT CURATORS, AND AIDS. 

Aits and Industries: Dr. G. Brown Goode, Honorary Curator. 

Materia Medica: Dr. William S. Dixon, TJ. S. Navy, Honorary Curator. 

Animal Products: Mr. R. Edward Earll, Acting Curator. 

Naval Architecture: (apt. J. W. Collins, U. S. Fish Commission, Honorary 

Curator. 
Fisheries: Capt. J. W. Collins, U. S. Fish. Commission, Honorary Curator. 
Foods: Prof. W. O. Atwater, Department of Agriculture, Honorary Curator. 
Historical Collections, Coins and Medals: Mr. A. Howard Clark, Curator. 
Transportation and Engineering: Mr. J. E. Watkins, Curator. 
Oriental Antiquities: Prof. Paul Haupt, Johns Hopkins University, Honorary 

Curator; Dr. Cyrus Adler, .Johns Hopkins University, Assistant Curator. 
Graphic Aits: Mr. S. R. Koeliler, Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Cuiator. 
Forestry: Dr. B. F. Fernow, Department of Agriculture, Honorary Cuiator. 
Physical Apparatus: Mr. W. C. Winlock, Smithsonian Institution, Honorary 
Curator. 
Ethnology: Prof. Otis T. Mason, Curator; Mr. Walter Hough, Assistant. 
American Prehistoric Pottery: Mr. William H. Holmes, Bureau of Ethnology, 

Honorary Curator. 
Prehistoric Anthropology: Dr. Thomas Wilson, Curator: Mr. E. P. Upham, As- 
sistant. 
Mammals: Mr. Frederick W. True, Curator. 
Birds: Mr. Rohert Ridgway, Curator. 

Birds' Eggs: Capt. C. E. Bendire, U. S. Army, Honorary Curator. 
Reptiles and Batrachians: Dr. Eeonhard Stejneger, Curator. 
Fishes: Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, U. S. Fish Commission, Honorary Curator; Mr. Barton 

A. Bean, Assistant. 
Vertebrate Fossils: Prof. <>. C. Marsh, Yale College, Honorary Curator; Mr. Fred- 
eric A. Lucas, Assistant Curator. 
Mollusks: .Mr. William H. Dall, F. S. Geological Survey. Honorary Curator; Dr. 

R. E.C.Stearns, Adjunct Curator. 
Insects: Dr. C. V. Riley. Department of Agriculture, Honorary Curator: Mr. Martin F. 

Einell, Aid. 
Marino Invertebrates: Mr. Richard Rathbun, F. S. Fish Commission. Honorary 

Curator; Mr. James E. Benedict, Assistant Curator. 
Comparative Anatomy: Dr. Frank Faker. National Zoological Park, Honorary 
Curator; Mr. Frederic A. Lucas, Assistant Curator. 



14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 181)2. 

Invertebrate Fossils : 

Paleozoic : Mr. ('. D. Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator. 
Mesozoic: Dr. ('. A. White, U. S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator. 
Cenozoic: Mr. William IT. Pall. U. S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator. 
Fossil Plants: Mr. Lester F. Ward, U. S. Geological Survey, Honorary Curator; 

Mr. F. H. Knowlton, Assistant Curator. 
Botany: Dr. George Vasey, Botanist of the Department of Agriculture, Honorary 

Curator. 
Minerals: Prof. F. W. Clarke. Chief Chemist, U. S. Geological Survey, Honorary 

Curator; Mr. William S. Yeates, Assistant Curator. 
Geology: Mr. George P. Merrill, Curator; Mr. W. H. Newhall, Aid. 

THE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 

No important changes in the administrative departments have been 
made during the year. 

In the office of the Assistant Secretary, who has been appointed rep- 
resentative of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum 
at the World's Columbian Exposition, Mr. R. E. Earll has assisted in 
the preparation of the exhibit for the World's Fair. 

The Department of Supplies and Accounts remains under the charge 
of Mr. W. V. Cox. A statement of the work of this department will 
be found on page 56. 

The Division of Correspondence and Reports is under the charge of 
Mr. R. I. Geare. For a statement of the work accomplished, see page 
61. 

Mr. S. C. Brown is in charge of registration and storage. A report 
of his work will be found on page L'3. 

Mr. A. Howard Clark has continued his work as editor of the Pro 
ceedings and Bulletin of the Museum. He also has charge of the 
preparation and printing of labels. 

Mr. John Murdoch, who has tilled the position of librarian of the 
Museum since 1887, resigned May 15, 1892. At the close of the fiscal 
year his successor had not been appointed. A report upon the opera- 
tions of the Library during the year will be found on page 31. 

The superintendent of the Museum. Mr. Henry Horan, with Mr. 
Charles A. Steuart as assistant superintendent, continues in charge of 
the mechanics and laborers. 

E.— REY1IAY OF WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC DEPARTMENTS. 

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 
ETHNOLOGY. 

The work in this department for the past year has been chiefly con- 
fined to the preparation of an exhibit for the World's Columbian 
Exposition. After consultation, it was decided to unite the work of 
the Bureau of Ethnology, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, with that of the Department of Ethnology in the National Museum. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15 

Several valuable contributions to the collections were received dur- 
ing- the year. From the Cocopa,Yaki, Yuma, Papago, and other tribes 
of Sonora, Mexico, and Lower California, Mr. Edward Palmer collected 
for the Museum objects illustrating the industries of these tribes. Val- 
uable material was also received from Mr. II. W. Bartlenian, United 
States legation, Caracas, Venezuela; Prof. Henry II. Giglioli, director 
of the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence. Italy; Hon. Rouusevelle 
Wildinan, United States consul at Singapore, India; Prof. I. C. Rus- 
sell, U. S. Geological Survey; Lieut. G. B. Harber, U. S. Navy, and 
Mr. J. Walter Fewkes, Cambridge, Mass. The number of specimens 
received during the year was 2,241, and the number of catalogue entries 
1,243. 

PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The curator, Dr. Thomas Wilson, has continued his investigations of 
the evidences of the remote antiquity of man in America, and in this 
connection has made a special study of arrow-heads and spear-heads, or 
knives. He was called upon to prepare exhibits for the Madrid Exposi- 
tion and also for the World's Columbian Exposition. 

About 10,000 specimens Mere added to the collections of this depart- 
ment during the year. The principal collections were received from 
Edward Palmer; the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy; the 
National Museum of Anthropology and Ethnology, Florence, Italy; 
A. C. Carlisle, De Witt Webb, the Bureau of Ethnology, Edward 
Lovett, Henry Balfour, and others. 

ORIENTAL ANTIQUITIES. 

This section is devoted to biblical archaeology, and to the archaeology, 
history, languages, arts and religions of the people of western Asia 
and Egypt, and is under the immediate charge of Dr. Cyrus Adler, as 
assistant curator. During Dr. Adler's recent visit to the east, in the 
interests of the World's Columbian Exposition, he obtained several 
interesting objects. Two carefully made and well-preserved paper 
molds of a piece of sculpture and a cuneiform inscription from Perse]) 
olis, have been received through the Department of State, from the 
Hon. Truxtou Beale, United States minister to Persia. The Telfair 
Academy of Arts and Sciences of Savannah, Ga., has deposited a 
portion of the collection of oriental books and manuscripts owned by 
the late William B. Hodgson. 

GRAPHIC ARTS. 

The most important additions of the year, as reported by Mr. S. R. 
Koehler, curator, are the illustrations of the half-tone relief screen- 
process, and of a variety of the photo- aquatint intaglio process. Inter- 
esting specimens illustrating the advances made in chromo collographic 
process-work were given by Mr. E. Bierstadt, of New York, and by the 



1<; REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892. 

.!. J'». Lippincotl Company, of Philadelphia. About 200 specimens were 
added during the year, the catalogue entries numbering 179. 

FORESTRY. 

Dr. B. P. Fernow, honorary curator, reports that the forestry collec- 
tion lias not received many additions during the year. The lack of 
space tor exhibition purposes has restricted his efforts toward develop- 
ing the collection, and the bulkiness of the material makes it undesira- 
ble to add to it in the storage rooms. The curator has, during the year, 
prepared for publication- a list, with notes, of all the species of trees 
found in the parks of Washington, 1). ('. 

AMERICAN ABORIGINAL POTTERY. 

The operations of this department, as reported by Mr. William II. 
Holmes, honorary curator, consisted in the installation of a number of 
specimens from the tide water districts of Maryland and Virginia, and 
the Gila Valley, Arizona. Among the principal contributions were 
fragments of ancient Pueblo ware from Arizona, received from the U. S. 
Geological Survey, and earthen vessels from Guadalajara. Mexico, 
collected by ('apt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army. The estimated num- 
ber of specimens received during the year was 1,817. 

I KANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 

Satisfactory progress is reported by the curator, Mr. J. E. Watkins. 
The accessions during the year are both valuable and interesting. They 
include, among other things, an electrical locomotive, which made a 
speed of L20 miles an hour at Laurel. Md., in 1889. The value of the 
collection of telegraphic apparatus has been greatly enhanced through 
the cooperation of Mr. George C. Maynard. secretary of the American 
Association of Inventors and Manufacturers. The collection showing 
the development of the typewriting machine has also received several 
important additions. Messrs. Wyckotf, Seamans & Benedict have de- 
posited a model of the Sholes & (Hidden typewriter, invented in 1867, 
and the original machine made from this model. Mr. J. T. Richards, 
assistant chief engineer of the Pennsylvania Railroad, presented a 
model of the monument elected at Bordentown, N. J. in 1891, to com- 
memorate the first movement by steam on a railroad in the State of 
New Jersey, which occurred on November P2, L831. Miss Katherine 
Parsons, of Washington, deposited a sedan chair decorated with gold, 
owned and used by the royal family of Prance during the reign of Louis 
xiv. The number of specimens received during the year was 205, the 
catalogue entries numbering 1(11. 

K< >OI>>. 

Prof. W. O. At water, the honorary curator, while in Europe during 
the past fiscal year, spent considerable time in collating data available 
for use iii preparing labels, charts, diagrams, and plans for the food 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17 

collection in the National Museum. With this object in view he con- 
ferred with a number of experts and investigators and visited museums 
in which food collections are to be found. Mis recent study of the sub 
ject has strengthened his belief in the practicability of developing the 
collection in the National Museum in such a manner as to make it <>!' 
great popular interest, to say nothing of its educational and scientific 
value. 

MATERIA MEDICA. 

Dr. William S. Dixon, U. S. Navy, who assumed charge of this sec- 
tion in October, 1891, as honorary curator, states that the labeling of 
the collection has been completed. The estimated number of specimens 
received during the year was 1*07, the larger portion of which was from 
the Royal Gardens at Kew, England. The catalogue entries numbered 
55 

DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY. 



Mr. Frederick W. True, curator, states that the work in this depart- 
ment has been seriously arrested by the necessary preparations for the 
exhibit at the World's Columbian Exposition. 

Many foreign and domestic mammals were obtained from various 
sources. Dr. W. L. Abbott sent a valuable collection of East African 
mammals, and Mr. William Astor Chanter presented two excellent 
mounted heads of giraffes from the same locality. Dr. Edgar A. Mean is, 
U. S. Army, of the Mexican Boundary Commission, has sent in some 
finely prepared specimens from the border. The President of the 
Inited States deposited an armadillo which had been sent to him by 
Mr. R. R. Skaggs, of Breckenridge, Tex. More than fifty mammals 
were received from the National Zoological Park. The estimated num- 
ber of specimens received during the year was 1,086. 

BIRDS. 

This department, under the charge of Mr. Robert Ridgway, as cura- 
tor, shows a gratifying growth during the past year. The work of 
transferring the specimens in the study collection to new trays and 
cabinets has been vigorously pushed. The preparation of an exhibit of 
birds for the World's Columbian Exposition occupied a large share of 
the curator's time. The present state of the collection is more satis 
factory than during the preceding year, the arrangement of the speci- 
mens being better adapted for the convenience of visitors. The esti- 
mated number of specimens added was 5,6 10. involving 5,001) catalogue 
entries. 

BIRDS' eggs. 

The honorary curator, (apt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, re- 
ports that the collections are in excellent shape, having been carefully 
overhauled and relabeled. The most important contribution during 
H. Mis. 114, pt, 2 2 



18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

ilir year was made by Dr. William L. Ralph, of New York, consisting 
of 1,630 eggs and 100 nests, several of the species being new to the 
Museum collection. This is the most valuable gift which has been 
made to this collection for several years. In view of the large number 
and great value of the contributions made by Dr. Ralph to the collec- 
tion of birds' eggs in the National Museum, it is understood that this 
collection will not be drawn upon for purposes of exchange or dona 
tion, and that it will form an integral part of the national collection of 
birds* eggs. A number of specimens, gathered in the Death Valley 
region of southern California, were received from the Department of 
Agriculture. There were received during the yeai 3,094 specimens, 
involving 840 catalogue entries. 

REPTILES AM) IJATRACH1ANS. 

The curator, Dr. Leonhard Stejnegcr, reports that satisfactory pro- 
gress has been made during the year. The work of installing, identi- 
fying, and labeling the collections has been actively continued, and 
preparations were made for an exhibit at the World's Colombian Ex- 
position. The most valuable and interesting collection of reptiles 
received by the Museum since 1890 was the material sent by Dr. C. 
Hart Merriam, through the U. S. Department of Agriculture. These 
specimens, over 000 in number, were collected by the Death Valley 
Expedition in 1S01 from the desert regions of California, Nevada and 
Utah. In addition to the collections mentioned in the last report, there 
has been received a number of specimens from Mr. P. L. Jouy, obtained 
by him in southern Arizona. Facilities for studying the collections 
were afforded to Dr. O. P. Hay. of Irvington. ind., and Dr. G. Baur. 
of Worcester, Mass. In addition to his other duties the curator has 
continued his work on the supplementary volume of the "Nomenclator 
Zoologicus." There were 1,055 entries in the catalogue of the depart- 
ment during the year, embracing 1,004 specimens. 

FISHES. 

The work accomplished has, in general, been similar to that of the 
preceding year. The honorary curator. Dr. Tarleton H. Bean, has been 
occupied with his duties in connection with the U. S. Fish Commission. 
and the routine work has chiefly devolved upon Mr. Barton A. Beau, 
assistant curator. Fifty-five sets of duplicate fishes were prepared for 
distribution to educational establishments. Each set contained about 
125 species, including both fresh and salt water forms. Valuable 
collections were received from the U. S. Fish Commission, Prof. B. W. 
Evermann, Mr. P. L. Jouy, and Mr. Charles W. Richmond. The 
estimated number of specimens added to the collection was 1,906, the 
catalogue entries being 553. 

VERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 

A large collection of vertebrate fossils, secured by the honorary cura- 
tor, Prof. O. C. Marsh, during his official work for the U. S. Geological 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19 

Survey, was received at the National Museum in July, 1891, and was 
immediately placed upon exhibition. This is the tirst installment in 
the Museum of the official collections of Professor Marsh. The speci- 
mens have l>een well catalogued and arranged by the assistant curator. 
Mr. F. A. Lucas. Another valuable collection, sent from New Haven 
by the honorary curator in 1886, is still in storage, on account of lack 
of room in the exhibition hall. Professor Marsh is now preparing two 
memoirs, containing a full description of the more important specimens 
lately deposited in the Museum. During the year, 1,124 catalogue en- 
tries were made, and about 1,001 specimens were added to the collec- 
tion. 

MOLLUSKS (INCLUDING TERTIARY INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS). 

Mr. William 11. Dall, honorary curator, reports that a large amount 
of time has been devoted to sorting, naming, cataloguing, and storing 
the duplicate shells. The greater portion of them is now packed in 
small boxes in the storage room, each specimen bearing its catalogue- 
number. A card-catalogue makes it possible to refer at a moment's 
notice to any duplicates in the collection. It has also been found nec- 
essary to arrange and catalogue the drawings of shells. The report 
on the "Later Tertiary of the United States,*' though in type, will be 
issued a few days too late to appear in the Bibliography of this year. 
Considerable labor has been bestowed on the continuation of the report 
on the "Florida Tertiary MoUusks," for the Wagner Institute of Phila- 
delphia. The most valuable contribution during the year was a collec- 
tion of shells from St. Helena, donated by ('apt. W. H. Turton, of the 
Royal Engineers, Chatham, England. Mr. Rounsevelle Wilclman, 
United States consul at Singapore, sent a collection of shells repre- 
senting the principal marine forms of that vicinity. The number of 
specimens added during the year was (',l > l > .~>. the catalogue entries being 
2,546. 



Prof. C. V. Riley, honorary curator, reports that a large amount 
of time has been devoted to the study collections in the laboratory, 
although important additions have been made to the systematic exhibi- 
tion series. Among the more important accessions are: 400 specimens 
of Heteroptera, received from Prof. A. L. Montandon, Bucharest. Rouma- 
nian a collection of Californian insects, from Mr. I). W. Coquillet, of 
Los Angeles; material collected by Mr. A. Koebele during the Death 
Valley expedition, in 1891, from the Department of Agriculture: 1,900 
specimens of Lepidoptera (native and exotic) from Mr. (i. Beyer, of New 
York; and 57 specimens, embracing L'7 species, mostly Coleoptera, from 
Mr. Charles Dury, of Cincinnati. Ohio. Mr. Dury has also expressed 
his willingness to contribute more material, and to aid in every way pos- 
sible in increasing the value of the collection. In September. 1891, Prof. 



20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

John JB. Smith, entomologist of the New Jersey Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, was requested by the National Museum to compare the 
North American Noctuida? in several of the museums of Europe, while 
visiting that country for purposes of study. In London he studied the 
British Museum collections, and succeeded in identifying most of the 
Walker types ami t\\e species described by Guenee. He also made 
critical comparisons between the collections of Grote, Zeller and 
Walker. At the museum in the Jardiu des Plantes, Paris, he succeeded 
in finding many of the insects studied by Guenee and Boisduval, which 
form, at least in part, the basis of their work on the North American 
Lepidoptera. At Berlin he examined the collections of the Royal Mu- 
seum, including material which has been used as the basis of papers on 
North American species. At Dresden he examined the Standinger 
collections, and compared long series from the Siberian, Alaskan, Ice 
landic, and other Arctic fauna! districts. In the course of these studies 
Professor Smith collected considerable information for publication in the 
Proceedings of the National Museum, and he also succeeded in obtain- 
ing from Mr. W. Schaus, jr., who has collected extensively in Mexico 
and South America, a promise to present to the Museum his collection, 
which is very large and contains many of the types described in the 
Biologia Centrali Americana. About 10,500 specimens were added to 
the collection during the year, the catalogue entries numbering 295. 

MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 

Mr. Richard Pathbun. honorary curator, states that considerable 
progress has been made during the year in the study of the collections 
of this department. The accessions of the year show a marked increase 
both in number and in extent and value. The 1". S. Fish Commission 
has transferred the collections of the Albatross in the North Pacific 
Ocean, and important collections made by the Fish Hawk&ncl the Gram- 
pus have also been received. Some additions have been made to the 
exhibition series; but little can be done in this direction until more 
space can be provided. Mr. J. E. Benedict, assistant curator, has con- 
ducted experimental work with a view to the manufacture of some plas- 
tic substance suitable for reproductions of soft substances. The prepa- 
ration of an exhibit representing the families of American marine in- 
vertebrates for the World's Columbian Exposition has progressed. 
Mr. Benedict and Miss Pathbun have completed a monograph of the 
genus Panopeus, and the latter has prepared catalogues of the Peri- 
ceridce and Maiidw. These will be published in the Proceedings of the 
U. S. National Museum. The department has received the assistance of 
several specialists in the determination of recently acquired material. 
The number of catalogue entries during the year is 1,318. The number 
of specimens received is 7,120. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21 



<ii.M1'.\|;aT1\ K AXATOM V. 



The work of the year has consisted largely in the preparation and 
arrangement of osteological material by the assistant curator, Mr. F. A. 
Lucas. The most important accession of the year was the skeleton of 
a young sperm whale, obtained through the courtesy of the Life-Saving 
Service from the station at Green Run Inlet. The IT. S. Fish Commis- 
sion contributed valuable material. The increasing care of the collec- 
tions has prevented any special researches. The exhibition series is in 
good condition. During the year .~>74 specimens "were added to the col- 
lection, and a large number were transferred to the department of 
vertebrate fossils. 

INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (PALEOZOIC '). 

Mr. O.D.Walcott, honorary curator, has necessarily devoted the greater 

portion of his time to work connected with the U. S. Geological Survey, 
with which he is associated. The principal accessions during the year 
were received from the Geological Survey. The collection of Cambrian 
and Ordovician fossils was placed upon exhibition. 

In the latter part of 1891 the attention of the curator was called to 
an un worked collection of Lower Carboniferous crinoidsand associated 
invertebrates from Crawfordsville, Ind., comprising specimens brought 
together by Prof. Frank Bradley, and presented by Prof. (). C. Marsh 
to the Vale University Museum, and others gathered by the Rev. 
D. "A. Bassett upon his farm at < !rawfordsville, and also the property of 
the Yale Museum. The National Museum possessed at that time but 
one or two small specimens from this formation, and plaster casts of 
several others. The curator urged the extreme desirability of securing 
a full representation from this classic locality of North American Lower 
Carboniferous fossils. After some correspondence with Prof. Marsh, 
with this end in view, Mr. Charles E. Beecher, of the Yale Museum, 
submitted a proposition, offering to give to the National Museum a 
large number of the Bassett and Bradley fossils, provided the Museum 
would be willing to work up the collection and supply the necessary 
tools. This proposition was accepted, and the task of working up the 
collection was begun at New Haven, the university kindly furnishing 
abundant laboratory room and every facility for properly carrying on 
the work. The material, as it was received at New Haven, weighed 
two tons, and contained between 3,000 and 4,000 specimens, many of 
them, however, being duplicates. In addition to the single crinoids 
and groups of crinoids upon slabs, the collection includes fossil brachio- 
pods, corals, and other invertebrates. It is estimated that the value of 
the share which wdl come to the National Museum will exceed double 
the amount of money expended in working up the collection. The 
material is very showy and attractive, and will form a valuable addi- 
tion to the exhibition series. 



22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The number of specimens received during the year was about 869, 
involving 95 catalogue entries. 

INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS ( MESOZ01C). 

Dr. C. A. White, honorary curator, reports gratifying progress dur- 
ing the year. The most important accession was received from the 
U. S. Geological Survey. This embraced a large number of specimens, 
including some of the most important paleontological material studied 
by members of the Survey. There were 419 catalogue entries during 
the year, representing about 3,099 specimens. 

DIVISION OF BOTANY. 
FOSSIL PLANTS. 

Prof. Lester F. Ward, honorary curator, states that the work has 
been chiefly confined to the installation and care of specimens. There 
were added to the collection more extensive and valuable accessions 
than in any previous year. The most important was the collection of 
fossil plants, presented by Mr. R. I). Lacoe, of Pittston, Pa. This 
collection numbers 100,000 specimens and is of world-wide reputa- 
tion. Prof. F. H. Knowlton continued during the year his study of 
the Laramie flora, and identified a large collection of plants from the 
P>ozeman (Montana) coal fields. The " Flora of the Dakota Group," by 
the late Prof. Leo Lesquereux, was printed during the year. 

RECENT PLANTS. 

Dr. George Vasey, botanist of the Department of Agriculture, and 
honorary curator of the department of botany in the National Museum, 
reports that the growth of the National Herbarium has been steady, 
although the percentage of increase has not been as great as in the 
preceding year. The collections have been practically rearranged and 
new labels provided. The duplicate specimens were threatened with 
destruction by insects., and it became necessary to poison them to pre- 
vent further damage. New specimens are now treated in this manner 
when they first arrive. Considerable time has been spent in the prep- 
aration of a card-catalogue of all the botanical works in the libraries 
to which this department has access. Among the more important ac 
cessions were the collections made by Mr. F. V. Coville, assistant bot- 
anist of the Department of Agriculture (2,150 specimens); Mr. G. C. 
Nealley (1,709 specimens from Texas and Arizona); Edward Palmer 
(3,521 specimens from Mexico and Arizona); Mr. J. N. Sandberg (15,191 
specimens from Minnesota and Idaho), and Mr. J. M. Holzinger (2,530 
specimens from the Tinted States and Europe). There were 512 cata- 
logue entries made during the year, embracing about 53,384 specimens. 
Of the total number of accessions, 41 were transmitted directly to the 
National Museum, the remainder being received by the Department of 
Agriculture. 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23 

DIVISION <>T GEOLOG N . 



Prof. F. W. Clarke, of the U. S. Geological Survey, continues to act 
as honorary curator of this department, with Mr. W. S. Yeates as as- 
sistant curator. The preparation of an exhibit of minerals and gems 
for the World's Columbian Exposition has occupied considerable time. 
A large part of the systematic exhibition series has been remounted on 
ebonized blocks, and the specimens in the reserve series have been 
transferred to the exhibition hall. It is intended to provide species 
labels for the systematic exhibition series, indicating- the chemical com- 
position of each species, its crystallographic form, hardness, specific 
gravity, and different varieties with their characteristics. The sys- 
tematic duplicate series was thoroughly overhauled and reclassified. 
Among the more important accessions were twenty-five boxes of min- 
erals, presented by Mr. Joseph Willcox, of Philadelphia; several speci- 
mens of minerals from Connecticut, and a crystal of spangolite from 
Tombstone, Ariz., presented by Prof. S. L. Penrield, of Vale College; 
lour specimens of ornamental stones and one specimen of churchite, 
from Mr. Clarence S. Bement, of Philadelphia; two cut specimens of 
transparent spessartite, from Mr. Ira R. Allen, of Fair Haven, Vt. ; 
three specimens of native gold from the Potomac mine, Montgomery 
county, Md., presented by Mr. A. B. Russ, of Washington, D.C. Sev 
era! lots of minerals were also received from the V. S. Geological Sur- 
vey. There have been 4,121 specimens added to the collection during 
the year, the catalogue entries numbering 1,454. 

GEOLOGY. 

Mr. G. P. Merrill, curator, reports that the work in this department 
has been largely confined to the arrangement and classification of mate- 
rial, and the preparation of about 200 sets of specimens for distribu- 
tion to educational establishments. Several expeditions for collecting 
specimens were made during the summer and autumn by the curator, 
and by Mr. W. H. Newhall, his assistant. The work of preparing an 
exhibit for the World's Columbian Exposition was entered upon, and 
the curator visited Arizona, New Mexico, Virginia, Tennessee, Ken- 
tucky, Indiana, and Missouri, collecting a large amount of volcanic and 
cave material. The contributions made by Mr. G. F. Becker, of the 
U. S. Geological Survey, Mr. W. B. Robertson, of Saltville, Va., Mr. F. 
W. Crosby, and Mr. Henry G. Bryant were among the most important 
received during the year. The catalogue entries numbered 1,045, 
embracing more than of 4,000 specimens. 

F.— EEVIEW OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WORK. 

REGISTRATION AND DISTRIBUTION. 

In the report of Mr. S. < '. Brown, registrar, it is stated that the total 
number of packages of all kinds received during the year is 30,702 — an 



24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

increase of 3,016 over the previous year. The entries covering these 
receipts number 2,970, of which 980 consisted of specimens and 91S of 
supplies intended for the National Museum. The record of outgoing 
packages for the year embraces 1,408 entries, covering 2,341' packages 
of various kinds. The storage register shows that during the year ~n 
packages have been withdrawn from storage by officers of the Museum, 
and that 290 packages have been temporarily placed in storage. Dur- 
ing the year 98 transportation bills have been subdivided and copied, 
and 184 letters written relating to the transmission of packages through 
custom houses and to railroad and express companies. In addition, 
,~>40 notices of transmission have been sent out. The total number of 
accessions, i. e., lots of specimens received for the National Museum, 
during the year was 1,357. In addition, there were received 527 pack- 
ages of specimens sent for examination and report. The disposition of 
the accessions among the departments in the Museum is shown in one 
of the appendices to the accession list, which constitutes Section v of 
this report. 

The distribution records show that during the year 172 packages, con- 
taining l(».<nii specimens. were sent out. These sendings included speci- 
mens given, lent, sent in exchange, and returned to the owners. 

The following statement indicates, by geographical arrangement, the 
recipients of the duplicate specimens distributed, and the character of 
the material: 

Geographical statement of the distribution of specimens during the year ending June 30, 1892. 

NORTH AMERICA. 

CANAD \. 

Peter Redpath Museum, Montreal: Cast of trilobite showing appendages. Gift. 
(1). 7059). 

Museum of the Geological survey of Canada. Ottawa: Cast of trilobite showing 
appendages. Gift. (D. 7058.) 

University of Toronto, Toronto: Collection of echinoderms, etc.; duplicate collec- 
tion of casts of stone implements (set 10). Gift. (1). 7142.) (D. 7274.) 

UNITED STATES. 

Arizona. Edgar L. Storment, Tempe: Mud-puppy (1 specimen) ; lobsters (2 speci- 
mens); horseshoe crabs (2 specimens) ; holothurians (2 specimens), in exchange. 
(D. 6987.) (D. 7280.) 

California. Leland Stanford jr. University, Menlo Park: Fishes (3 specimens); 
duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series iv, set 188). Gift. (D. 
7096.) (D.7234.) 
L. L. Frost, Susanville : Fragment of meteorite. Gift. (D.7126.) 

Colorado. University of Colorado, Boulder: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 
121); duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 45). Gift. (D. 7308.) 

Connecticut. Bridgeport Scientific Society, Bridgeport: Duplicate collection of 
minerals (set 109); duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 50). Gift. (D. 
7029.) (D.7212.) 

" ' D." refers to the distribution record kept in the registrar's office. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 25 

G. R. Lnmsden, Greenvillej Gorgoniaus and aponges (2 packages). Gift. (I). 
7179.) 

H.S.Williams, Haddam: Ores (24 specimens), in exchange. (D.7005.) 

Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 
111); duplicate collection of casts of stone implements (set 6). Gift. (D. 
7071.) (D. 7230.) 

Peabody Museum, New Haven: Panopeus (4 specimens), in exchange. (D.7087.) 

Vale College Museum, New Haven : Cast of trilobite showing appendages. < iift. 
(1). 7055.) 
District of Columbia. Miss Nellie Baird, Washington: Collection of unassorted 
Foraminifera. Gift. (D. 7166.) 

Miss Mary Clark, Washington : Specimen of Moki Indian basket tray, in ex- 
change. (D.6805.) 

Columbian University, Washington: Plaster east of the Rosetta stone. Gift. 
(D. 0997.) 

Commissioner of Patents. Washington: Crude petroleum (34 samples). Gift. 
(D.7157.) 

E. E. Howell, Washington : Specimens of minerals (2 boxes, l bottle and 1 pack- 
age) ; minerals (6 specimens), in exchange. (D.6831.) (D.6865.) Miscella- 
neous ores (183 specimens); three slabs ofonyx and 300 pounds of iron ore; 
rocks (39 specimens) for exchange, ( D. 6875. ) (D. 6898. ) 

J. W. Langdale, Washington: Specimen of Vanadinite, in exchange. (D. 7258.) 

S. Ward Loper, National Museum: Specimen of onyx, in exchange. (D. 7252.) 

National Deaf Mute College, Washington : Special, collection of duplicate marine 
invertebrates. Gift. (D. 7109.) 

Soldiers' Home, Washington: Duplicate collection of casts of stone implements 
(set 2). Gift. (D. 7164.) 
Illinois. William A. Morris, Aledo: Unios (7 specimens), in exchange. (D.6882.) 

Arizona Oynx Company, Chicago: Seven slabs ofoynx, in exchange. (D. 7226.) 
Indiana. Indiana University. Bloomington: Rocks (51 specimens). Gift. (D.7028.) 

Hanover College, Hanover: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 16). Cit't. 

(D. 722:;.) 

Indiana State Normal School, Terre Haute: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes 

(set 10). Gift. (D. 7181.) 
Indian Territory. A. T. Odeneal, Lehigh: Lodestone (I specimen). Gift. 

(D.6819.) 
Iowa. Iowa State Normal School, Cedar Falls: Duplicate collection of marine invert- 
ebrates (series iv, set 185); duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 54). 

Gift. (D. 7084.) (D.7192.) 
Museum of State Library, Des Moines: Indian pottery (136 specimens). Gift. 

(D.7089. 
Jefferson County Library Association. Fairfield: Duplicate collection of casts of 

stone implements (set 1 ). Gift. (D.7120.) 
Parsons College, Fairfield : Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes | set 53). Gift. 

(D.7191.) 
Herbert E. Brock, Mason City: Indian implements (57 specimens); arrow and 

spear heads (50 specimens), in exchange. (D.6820.) (D.7218.) 
Cornell College, Mouni Vernon: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 106); 

duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 2). Gift. (D. 6977. i 
Kansas Baker University, Baldwin: Duplicate collection of minerals iscl 116). 

Gift. (D.7193.) 
College of Emporia, Emporia : Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 21). 

Gift. (D.7216.) 
Southwest Kansas College, Winneld: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 108). 

Gift. (D.7014.) 



26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Kentucky. L. C. Lane, Frankfort: Collection of shells, in exchange. (D.7332.) 

State University, Louisville : Duplicate collection of minerals (set 117), Gift. 
(D.7204.) 

Centra] University, Richmond: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 43). 
Gift. (D. 7235.) 
Louisiana. Louisiana state University, Baton Rouge: Duplicate collection of alco- 
holic fishes (set 49). Gift. (D. 7211.) 

Tulane University, New Orleans: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 6); 
duplicate collection of minerals (set 118) ; duplicate collection of easts of stone 
implements (sel 5); special collection of marine invertebrates (6 boxes). Gift. 
(D.7140.) (I). 722;"..) (D.7226.) 
Maine. Dr. A. C. Hamlin, Bangor: Miscellaneous minerals (60 specimens), in 
exchange. (D. 6979.) 

Maine State College, Orono: Miscellaneous ores (111 specimens), in exchange. 
(D. 7265.) 

T. F. Lamb. Portland: .Miscellaneous minerals (I'll specimens), in exchange. ( l». 
7041.) 

F. H. Thompson, Portland : Specimens of infusorial earth. Gift. (D.7242.) 

Colby University, Waterville : Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 14). 
Gift. (I). 7207.) 
Maryland. Dr. George H. Williams. Baltimore: .Minerals (15 specimens), in ex- 
change. ( I K 7152. ) 

Rockhill College, Ellicott City: Collection of casts of stone implements (set 4). 
Gift. (D.7213.) 
Massachusetts. George II. Barton, Boston: Ores (1235 pounds), for exchange. il>. 
6871.) 

Prof. W. O. Crosby, Boston: Collection of Nevada nickel ores, in exchange. 
(D. 6908.) 

Massachusetts institute of Technology, Boston: Ores (598 specimens), in ex- 
change. (D.7092.) 

N. L. Wilson, Boston : Minerals (28 specimens), in exchange. 1 1>. 7285. I 

Museum of Comparative Zoologj . ( lambridge : Cast of trilobite showing append- 
ages; specimen of Tile fish and 7 species of Scopelids. Gift. (D. 7056.) iP. 
728! I.) 

Peabody Museum, Cambridge: Collection of Navajo dyes and dye stuff. Gift. 
(D.6789.) 

Bigelow School, Marlboro: Specimens of wulfenite and azurite. Gift. (D. 
7001.) 

Wellesley College, Wellesley: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (se1 13). 
Gift. (D. 7189.) 

Worcester Society of Antiquity, Worcester: Photographs of the log of the steam- 
ship Savannah and Trevithick's locomotive, in exchange. (D. 7012.) 
Michigan. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor: Collection of casts of stone imple- 
ments (set 7). Gift. (D. 7249.) 

Frederick Stearns, Detroit: Collection of Unionidse; miscellaneous shells (71 
specimens), in exchange. (D. 6810.) (D. 6893.) 
Minnesota. Hamline University, Mainline: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes 
(set 25). Gift. (I). 7231.) 

state Normal School, Mankato: Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates 
(series iv, set 181); duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 4). Gift. (D. 
7062.) 

Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, Minneapolis: Duplicate collection of 
alcoholic fishes (set 26). Gift. (D. 7277.) 

Universityof Minnesota, Minneapolis: Fossil plants (12 specimens), in exchange. 
I D. 724.-.. j 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27 

State Normal School, si . Cloud: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (se1 IT i. 
Gift. (D. 7262.) 

Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 
107). Gift. (D. 7003.) 
Missouri. Hooper Institute, Clarksburg: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 111). 
Gift. (D. 7143.) 

.Missouri State University, Columbia: Duplicate collection of minerals (set L13). 
Gift. (1). 7135.) 

C. A. Brocket!., Kansas City: Stone (1 specimen). Gift. (D. 7132.) 

Missouri Valley College, Marshall: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes 
(set 52). Gift. (D. 7195.) 

Julius Hurter, St. Louis: Reptiles (7 specimens). Gift. (D. <>986.) 
Montana. College of Montana. Deer Lodge: Duplicate collection of alcoholic 
fishes (set 15). Gift. (D. 7208. 1 

Homer Squyer, Mingusville: Shells (18 specimens), in exchange. (D. 7313.) 

.James Allen, Willis: Beauxite and cryolite (3 specimens). Gift. (D. 6800.) 
Nebraska. Bellevue College, Department of University of Omaha, Bellevue: 
Duplicate collection of casts of stone implements (set 9). Gift. (D.7282.) 

University of Nebraska, Lincoln: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 
8); duplicate collection of casts of stone implements (set 8). Gift. (1). 7159.) 
(D. 7266.) 
New Jersey. Biological School, Avon-by-the-Sea : Duplicate collection of marine 
invertebrates (scries iv, set 180). Gift. (D.6821.) 

Albert Mann, jr., Newark: Samples of ocean bottom. Gift. (D.7075.) 

J. C. Smock, Trenton : Specimens of labels, blocks, bottles, and wires used in ex- 
hibition series of the National Museum. Gift. (D. 7113.) 
New Voi:k. Wells College, Aurora: Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates 
(series iv, set 181) ; duplicate collection of minerals (set 101); duplicate col- 
lection of alcoholic fishes (set 1). Gift. (D. 6848.) (D. 6976.) 

Williamsburg Scientific Society, Brooklyn: Duplicate collection of minerals 
(set 119). Gift. (D.7260.) 

Society of Natural Sciences, Buffalo: Echinoderms (10 specimens). Gift. (D. 
7081.) 

Hamilton College, Clinton: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set. 17). 
(lift. (D.7209.) 

State Normal School, Cortland: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 51); 
duplicate collection of casts of stone implements (set 3). Gift. (D. 7196.) 
(D.7182.) 

Fort Edward Collegiate Institute, Fort Edward: Duplicate collection of min- 
erals (set 112). Gift. (D.7121.) 

Charles Babcock, Cornell University, Ithaca: Onyx and syenite (1 specimen of 
each). Gift. (D.7088.) 

Cornell University, Ithaca : Hocks (48 specimens): bones of Great Auk. in ex- 
change. (D. 7186.) (D.7247.) 

American Museum of Natural History, New York City : Cast of trilobite showing 
appendages. Gift. (D. 7000. ) 

S. P. Avery, New York City: Specimen of lithograph by Menzel, in exchange. 
(D. 7202.) 

G. Beyer, New York City : Dried insects (2 boxes) : dried insects (253 specimens), 
inexchange. (D. 7137.) (D. 7119.) 

College of the City of New York, New York City: Duplicate collection of alco- 
holic fishes (set 22). Gift. (D. 7217.) 

Robert Demcker, New York City: Minerals (52 specimens), in exchange. (D. 
7085.) 



28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

George L. English & Company, New York City: Minerals (12 specimens); min- 
erals (12 specimens), in exchange. (D. 6846.) 

George V. Kim/. New York City : Minerals (9 specimens), in exchange. ( D.7138.) 

Charles Mali, Belgian Consul, New York City : Coal (17 specimens). Gift. (J). 
6859.) 

Tiffany A, Company, New York City: Minerals (6 specimens), in exchange. (D. 
7148.) 

Tun Jefferson Union School, Port Jeffersou: Duplicate collection of minerals 
(set 99). Gift. (D. 6786. i 

Henry A. Ward, Rochester: .Minerals (37 specimens), in exchange. (D. 6849.) 

Union College, Schenectady : Two species of Pentacrinns ; collection of Foramin- 
ifera. Gift. (D. 7160.) (D.7141.) 

Syracuse University, Syracuse : Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 18). 
Gift. (D.7214.) 

S: .Johns School, Utica: Duplicate minerals (26 specimens). Gift. (D.6949.) 
North Carolina . Garrett D. Kay, Asheville : .Minerals (60 specimens), in exchange. 
(D.6975.) 

D. A. Bowman, Bakersville : Minerals (2 specimens). Gift. (D.6798.) 

Trinity University, Durham: Duplicate collection of marine invertebrates 
(series i\. se1 ISL'); duplicate collection of alcoholic lishes (set 55). Gift. 
(D.6888.) (D.7190.) 
Ohio. Mrs. 1). D. Meacham, Cincinnati : Archaeological specimens (17), in exchange. 
(D.7125.) 

Oherlin College, Oherlin : I >n plicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 28). Gift. 
(D.7312.) 

Mansfield Memorial Museum, Mansfield: Duplicate collection of marine invert- 
ehrates (scries iv, set 187); duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes (set 7). 
Gift. (D.7144.) 

Scio College, Scio: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 110). Gift. (D.7033.) 
Penns^ i. \.\m \. Western University of Pennsylvania, Allegheny: Duplicate collec- 
tion of alcoholic fishes (set in. Gift. (i>.7188.) 

St. Vincent College, Beatty: Duplicate collection of alcoholic lishes (set :'). 
Gift. (I). 7172.) 

Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia : Scopelids (5 specimens), Gift. 
(D.7030.) 

University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia: Set of plaster casts of Haida gam- 
bling sticks: specimens of seeds used in games, in exchange; duplicate col- 
lection of casts of stone implements (set 11). Gift. (D. 6864.) (D.7100.) 
(1). 7305.) 

Wagner Free Institute of Science. Philadelphia: Unionidae I 375 specimens. I7ti 
species), in exchange. (D.6974.) 

Joseph Willcox, Philadelphia: Minerals (8 specimens), in exchange. (D. 7123.) 

Duquesne College, Pittsburg: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 103). Gift. 
I D. 6921.) 

Central State Normal School. lank Haven: Duplicate collection of alcoholic 
lishes (set PI). Gift. (D.7264.) 

Pennsylvania State Normal School. Millersville : Duplicate collection of alco- 
holic lishes (set 5); duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series iv. set 
189). Gift, (D.7110.) (D.7281.) 

George Wieland, State College: Rocks (57 specimens), in exchange. (D.7027.) 

E.G.Dutton, Twin Oaks: Minerals (59 specimens), in exchange. (D.7099.) 

F. S. Randall. Warren: Shells (102 specimens), m exchange. (D. 7311.) 
Sol hi Carolina. South Carolina College, Columbia : Duplicate collection of alco- 
holic fishes (set 23). Gift. (I). 7221.) 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29 

Tennessee. University of Tennessee, Knoxville: Duplicate collection of alcoholic 
fishes (set 20). Gift. (D.7215.) 
Obion Normal College, Troy : Duplicate collection of minerals (set L04). Gift. 
(D.6945.) 
Texas. Columbia College, \ an Alstyne: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 100). 
Gift. (D. 6842.) 
Fort Worth University, Fori Worth: Duplicate collection of marine inverte- 
brates (series l\ . set L83). (D. 7001.) 
William Taylor, San Diego: Five mammal skulls, in exchange. (D.6962.) 
Utah. R. Forrester, Castle Gate: Minerals (6 specimens), in exchange. (D. (>!t07.) 
Virginia. Miller Manual Labor Training School of Albemarle, Crozet : Collection 
of silver, copper, and lead ores including gold. Gift. (I>. 6863 l 
Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute, Hampton: Duplicate collection of 
minerals (set 105). Gift, , D. 6958.) 
West Virginia. University of West Virginia, Morgantown : Duplicate collection of 

alcoholic fishes (set 13). Gift. (D. 7178.) 
Wisconsin-. High School, Antigo : Duplicate collection of minerals (set 120), Gift. 
(D. 7261.) 
University of Wisconsin, Madison : Cast of trilobite showing appendages. Gift. 

(D. 7057.) 
state Normal School, Milwaukee: Duplicate collection of alcoholic lishes (set 

19). Gift. (D. 7210.) 
State Normal School, Whitewater: Duplicate collection of minerals (set 102): 
duplicate collection of marine invertebrates (series iv, set 186). Gift. (I». 
6896.) (D. 7136.) 
Wyoming. Wyoming University, Laramie: Duplicate collection of alcoholic fishes 
(set 24). Gift. (D. 7227.) 

Transmissions to Foreign Countries. 

AUSTRALIA. 

NEW SOUTH WALKS. 

Australian Museum, Sydney : Collection of echinoderms. Gift. (D. 7181.) 

NEW ZEALAND. 

Auckland Museum, Auckland: Collection of photographs and working-drawings of 
museum cases, also specimens of labels. Gift, (lb 6971.) 

Otago University Museum. Dunedin: Crinoids (3 specimens) ; reptiles (15 speci- 
mens), in exchange. (D. 7294.) 

EUROPE. 

AUSTRIA. 

University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria: Castof trilobite showing appendages. Gift. 
(D.7051.) 

DENMARK. 

Royal Zoological Museum, Copenhagen: Deep-sea (ishes (37 species); Crustacea and 
Radiata (324 specimens), in exchange. (D.6825.) 

ENGLAND. 

Edward Lovett, Croydon: Forty ethnological specimens, in exchange. (D.7039.) 
Rev. A. M. Norman, Fence Houses, Durham: Marine invertebrates (5 specimens), for 
exchange. (D. 7095.) 



30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Rev. Henry Baker Tristram, Durham: Bird skins (60 specimens), in exchange. (D. 

6797.) 
British Museum, London: Cast of trilobite, showing appendages; 69 specimens of 

ethnologica. in exchange. (D.7053.) (D.7201.) 
Mr. Cossman, London: Shell marl from Alabama (2 barrels), in exchange. (D.7065.) 
H.E. Dresser, London: Bird skins (4 specimens), in exchange. (D.7302.) 
Hugh Fulton, London: Turricula Bairdii (10 specimens), in exchange. (J). 6832.) 
George F. Harris, London: Shell marl (1 barrel), in exchange. (D.7175.) 
Owens College Museum, Victoria University, Manchester: Cast of trilobite showing 

appendages. Gift. (D.7047.) 
Prof. Henry Balfour, University Museum, Oxford: Candle-fish (Thalichthys pacificus), 

(5 specimens). Gift. (D.7072.) 
R. N. Worth, Plymouth: Ores (152 specimens), for exchange. (D. 6867.) 



M. C. Marquis G. de Laporta. Bouches-du-Rhone, Aix-en-Provenee: Fossil plants (24 

specimens). Gift. (D.6964.) 
University of Lille. Lille: Cast of trilobite showing appendages. Gift. (D. 7052.) 
Museum of Natural History, Paris: Snakes ( 12 specimens). Gift. (D. 6818.) 

GERMANY. 

Dr. A. Nehring, Berlin: Specimens of seeds of North American NymphaeceaB ; seeds 
of Brasenia and Nuphas, in exchange. (D. 7124.) (D. 7241.) 

Museum of Natural History. Bucharest, Romnania: Cast of trilobite showing ap- 
pendages. Gift. (D. 7050.) 

Zoological, Archaeological, and Ethnological Museum, Dresden: Four easts of Easter 
Island tablets, in exchange. (1>. 7269.) 

Prof. R. Wiedersheim, Freiburg: Siren lacertina (I specimens). Gift. (D. 7098.) 

Geological Museum of the University of Jena, Jena: Cast of trilobite showing ap- 
pendages. Gift. ( 1 ). 70 15. ) 

University of Munich, Munich: Cast of trilobite showing appendages. Gift. (D. 
7048.) 

ITALY. 

Zoological Museum, Bologna : Prof. C. Emery, insects (5 specimens). Gift. (D. 7079.) 
Royal Zoological Museum, Florence: Prof. Henry H. Giglioli, ethnological material 

(172 specimens) and archaeological material (100 specimens), in exchange. (D. 

6988.) 



Zoological Museum of the University of Christiania, Christiania: Skin of young sea- 
lion and model of skull; tishes (2 specimens), in exchange. (D. 6824.) (D. 7102. ) 



Geological Museum of the University of Moscow, Moscow: Cast of trilobite showing 
appendage's. Gift. (!>. 7016 ) 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg: Cast of trilobite showing append- 
ages; geological specimens (2 boxes), and publications, in exchange. (D. 
7i CD (D. 7170.) 

SWEDEN. 

Geological Survey of Sweden, Stpckholm: Cast of trilobite showing appendages. 
Gift, f !). 7014. ) 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



31 



The following table shows the number of specimens distributed from 
the various departments of the Museum during the year ending June 
30,1892: 



Department. 


Number 

of speci- 1 (epartnient. 
mens. 


N •lllllll'l' 

•>i speci- 
mens. 






583 

"5S 




303 Insects 






5 855 










I.:t0l Fossil plants 


36 






Birds 






Birds' egga ami nests 




231 


Reptiles and batrachians 


276 
5. 132 Total 






26 









LIBRAE Y. 

Mr. N. P. Scudder, assistant librarian, has furnished the following 
statement in regard to the operations of the Museum library during 
the year: 

The number of publications added to the library is 11,892 (693 vol- 
umes of more than 100 pages, 1,642 pamphlets, and 8,486 parts of 
regular serials). Of these, 297 volumes, 771 pamphlets, and 6,363 parts 
of serials have been retained for the use of the Museum from the 
accessions of the Smithsonian Institution, the remainder being obtained, 
as usual, by gift, exchange, and purchase. 

During the year, 6,094 books were borrowed from the library, of 
whieh 1,832 had been returned at the close of the year. The books 
assigned to the sectional libraries art* counted with those borrowed, 
hence the great excess of these over those returned. During the year, 
243 orders for books were sent to the Library of Congress. There have 
been added 2,235 titles to the card-catalogue by authors, and 1,989 
cards were added to the subject-catalogue, making a total of 3,827 
cards in this catalogue. 

SECTIONAL LIBRARIES. 

The designations of the sectional libraries now organized, and the 
number of books assigned to each, are as follows: 

Administration. — 111 volumes. 74 parts, and si pamphlets. 
Aeronautics. — 3 volumes and 29 parts. 
Astronomy. — 63 volumes, 522 parts, and l!i pamphlets. 
Birds. — 589 volumes, 155 parts, and 56 pamphlets. 
Editor. — 656 volumes, 229 parts, and 16 pamphlets. 
Ethnology. — 379 volumes, 99 parts, aud i'!> pamphlets. 
Fishes. — 52 volumes, 19 parts, and In pamphlets. 
Geology. — 717 volumes, 169 parts, and 1.').". pamphlets. 



32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Insects. — 192 volumes, 310 parts, and 210 pamphlets. 

Mammals. — 210 volumes and 295 pamphlets. 

Marine invertebrates. — 89 volumes and 46 pamphlets. 

Materia medica. — 251 volumes, 97 parts, and 23 pamphlets. 

Mesozoic fossils.— 30 volumes and 2 pamphlets. 

Mineralogy. — (A) 242volumes. 63 parts, and 19 pamphlets; (B) 89 volumes, 24 
parts, and 7S pamphlets. 

Mollusks and cenozoic fossils. — L10 volumes, 27.") parts, and 89 pamphlets. 

Oriental archaeology. — 311 volumes, 157 parts, and 137 pamphlets. 

Plants. — 396 volumes, 302 parts, and 335 pamphlets. 

Prehistoric anthropology. — 79 volumes, 40 parts, and 12 pamphlets, in addition to 
the Rau Memorial Library of 1,609 titles. 

Reptiles. — 16 volumes, 7 parts, and 4 pamphlets. 

Transportation. — li'l volumes, 189 parts, and 2 pamphlets. 

Owing to ilif failure of Congress to appropriate any money for bind- 
ing, it has been impracticable to bind any of the books belonging to the 
Museum library. There arc at least 1,500 volumeswhich need binding, 
some being of great value. 

In several instance's it has been found necessary, in order to preserve 
the books, to withdraw them from circulation, while in other instances 
where the work of curators would not permit this, the books are being 
worn out by constant though careful use. 

Of the Smithsonian deposit .")()() volumes were bound upon application 
to the Librarian of ( longress. 

SPECIMENS SENT TO THE MUSEUM FOR EXAMINATION AND REPORT. 

The record which has been kept of the specimens sent during the 
year for examination shows that 526 lots have been received (Nos. 
IL'48 to 1774, inclusive). Specimens forwarded to the Museum for this 
purpose are referred to the curator of the proper department, who pre- 
pares a report embodying the result of his examination, a copy of 
which is transmitted to the sender. 

A list* of the specimens received for examination, arranged alpha- 
betically by name of sender, is here given: 

Adams, C. F., Champaign, 111.: Birds' skins. lt>,">!> (Y-A). 

Adams. W. W., Mapleton, N. V. : Shell beads. 1342 (III). 

Alderson, Hon. J. 1>. (See under Mrs. B. T. Beirne.) 

Allen. James. Willis, Mont,: Mineral. 1600 (XVI). 

Allen. Levi, Salubria, Idaho: Sand, and 9 specimens of ore. 1648, 1689 (Wlh. 

American Museum of Natural History, New York City: Squirrel. 1634 (IV). 

Ames. W. VV., De Ruyter, N. Y. : Insect. 1296 (X). 

Anastasiades, K., Norfolk, \'a. : Two glass cases containing 2 silk ribbons made by 
silkworms. (Returned.) 1393 (X). 

Anderson, John Y.. Little Creek, Del.: Portion of owl. 1557 (V-A). 

Angel, L. ('.. Ridge Spring, S. C. : 3 specimens of minerals. 1515 (XVI). 

Appleton. John W. M.. Salt Sulphur Springs, W. Va. : An object having the appear- 
ance of a soft -shelled egg— dug from the ground. 1482 (X). 

*The number accompanying each entry is the number assigned to the sending on 
the Museum records. The number in parentheses indicates the department in the 
Museum to which the specimen was referred for examination. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33 

Arthur, F. G., Sioux City, Lowa: Ball-shaped objed fastened to au oak leaf. 1250 
(XIV). 

Ashtoji, H. H., Thomtowii, Ind. : Silk-moth. L724 (X). 

Austin, Mrs. R. M., 1 >avis Creek, Cal. : Butterflies. 1111 (X). 

Ayer, X. . I., Cactus Flat, Cal.: Butterfly. 1421 (X.) 

Ayres, T. F., Richland Center, Wis. : Small carved image. 1602 | 111). 

Babcock, George 11., Phillipsburg, Mout. : Two specimens of talc. 1386 ( XVII). 

Bachmann, George, Tanuersville, N. Y. : Ore and bottle of fluid, UiiM (XVII). 

Bailey, M. J., Custer City, S. Dak. : Two specimens of rocks. 1410 (XVII). 

P.aunon, F. T., Jessups, Md.: Insect. 1395 (X). 

Barker, S. R., Chambersburg, Ind. : Insect. 1437 (X). 

Barlow, C. F., Canastota, N. Y. : Worms and grubs found infesting celery ami union 
fields. 1738 (X). 

Barnes, B.E., Boy ett,N. C. : Supposed meteoric iron. (Returned.) 1771 (XVI). 

Barnes, E. A., Syracuse, X. Y. : Dandelion, with ten flowers on one stalk. 1727 (XV). 

Barnett, J. D., Gainesville, Tex. : 3 shells. 1440 (IX I. 

Barnuin, Dr. Eugene E., Lancaster, Va. : Bone. 1721 (XII). 

Barratt, D.W. P., Georgetown, S. C. : Crass. 1607 (XV). 

Bash, C.B., Cle-Elum, Wash.: Plants. 1664 (XV). 

Bartholomew, W. I... Buckley, Wash.: Ore. 1718 (XVII). 

Bassler, Thomas, Louisiana, Mo.: 45 species of Coleoptera. L304 (X). 

Baur, Dr. G., Worcester. Mass.: Collection of birds. 1624 (V-A). 

Hear. M. O., Orcukala, Ariz. : Plant, 1468 (XV). 

Bearden, C.C., Comanche, Tex.: Insect. 1390 (X). 

Beaver, Charles, Taiuora, Nebr. : Fossil bones of mammal. 1 102 (XII ). 

Beirne, Mrs. B. T., Lewisburg, W. Va., through Hon. J. D. Alderson: Sun-dial sup- 
posed to have belonged to Thomas Jefferson. 17.">S> ( II- A t 

Belcher, B. S., Ada, W. Va. : Specimens of ores. 1369, 1423, 1622 (XVII). 

Beldeu, Dr. C.K., Jamaica, N. Y. : Insects. 1277 (X). 

Bell, A. Melville, Washington, D. C : Luna-moth. 1328 (X i. 

Bendendorf, Otto A., Wilniot, Fans. : Rock. 1711 (XVII). 

Bennett. Richard, Eureka Springs, Ark.: 2 specimens <>1' rocks. (Returned). 1564 
(XVII). 

Bentley, Dr. Henry, Mystic, Conn. : Fossil teeth. 1503 (XII). 

Bishop, Ma j. D. E., New York City, X'. Y. : Copy of Arkansas state Gazette, pub- 
lished at Little Rock, June 6, 1866. (Returned.) 1521 (I). 

Blanchard, llon.X. C, House of Representatives : Shells. 1589 iIX I, 

Bloch, A., Bowling Green, Ky. : Ore. 1516 (XVII). 

Bloonn, 0. B., Harrisburg, Ariz. : Ore. 175(5 (XVII). 

Bohannan, F. A., Luray, Va. : Moth. 1261 (X |. 

Boker, Edward W., Washington, 1>. C: 17 silver coins and medals of Germany, Italy, 
and Poland. (Returned.) 1489(1). 

Bonelli, George, Tooele City, Utah: Ore. 1615 (XVII). 

Bowman, D. A., Bakersville, X. ('.: 2 specimens of minerals. 1587 (XVI I. 

Box, Henry, Terraville, S. Dak. : Quartz crystals. 1629 (XVI). 

Boyle, Mrs. Mary, Flemington, N. .).: Small stone. 1457 (25065) (IX). 

Bracken, A. II., Hensley, X. ( !.: Ore. (Returned.) 1565, 1712 (XVII). 

Bradford, George 1'.. New York City : 1" species of Coleoptera. 1608 i X i. 

Bradley, I. S., Dayton. Ohio: Worm. 1255 X i. 

Brandt, Carl L., Savannah, Ga. : 177 manuscripts, :!!* printed books, and 3 news- 
papers. 1650 (I). 

Brashear, C. G., Boaz, Tex., through W. H. Holmes. Iron pike-head. (Returned). 
1293 (IDA). 

Braziel, II. P.. Daytoua, Fla. : Small fragments of fossil bone ; mineral. 1467 (VIII, 
XVI). 

II. Mis. 114, pt. 2 3 



34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Breseman, Henry, Wayne Wis.: Copper implement. 1554 (III). 

Bringhurst, Dr. William, Philadelphia, Pa.: Insects; water containing egg-shaped 

insects. 1470, 1477 (X). 
Brinkley, Thomas C, Cleveland, Ohio: Insect. 1303 (X). 
British Museum, London, England, through Dr. 1 >. Sharp : Collection of West Indian 

hemiptera and hynienoptera, 1310 (X). 
Brock. A. T... Osceola, Mo. : -Mineral. 1771 (XVI ). 
Brock, Herbert E., Mason City, Iowa: 11 specimens of crinoids. 1(520 (25508) 

(XIII-A). 
Brockway, W. J., Vallicita, Cal. : Substance found after a rain shower in loads, tields, 

etc. 1547 (XV). 
Brooke, A. C, Lexington, Va. : Insect. 1113 (X). 
Brown, Abram, Robertstown, Pa. : < >re. 1345 (XVII ). 
Brown, G. S.. Vandalia, N. Y. : Insect. 1340 (X ). 
Brown, Phil. F., Blue Ridge Springs. Va. : Insect. 1750 (X). 
Brown. W. E., Pine Bluff, Ark. : Insect. It 17 (X ). 
Brown, Prof. W. J., U. S. Grant University, Athens. Term., through G. P. Merrill: 

Pharyngeal of Aplodinotus grunniens. (Returned.) 1736 (VII). 
Bryan, William A. ('., Nephi City. Utah : < >re. L389 (XVII). 
Bryan, Rev. C. B., Lenoir, N. C. : Mushroom; caterpillar from Danville, Va. 1352, 

1508 (XV, X). 
Bryan, T. J., Fort Gibson, Ind. T. : PlastfSr cast of a piece of metal found at Bush 

Creek, Adams County. Ohio. 1706 (III). 
BuelJ, A. D., Palm Springs, Fla, : Insect. 1323 (X). 
Bullcne, George W., Seattle, Wash. : Rock. 1301 (XVII). 
Bullock, David J.. Par Harbor, Me. : 2 specimens of wasps. 1271 (X). 
Burk, Frank, Nephi City, Utah: Mineral. 1422 (XVII). 
Campbell, H. C, Lansingburg, X. Y. : Beetle. 1670 (X). 
( lampbell, J. .1.. Hot Springs. \. C. : Minerals. 1379 (XVI). 
Camptield, C. H., Dulzura, Cal. : Ores. 1620, 1625 (XVII). 
Canter, A. F., Jordan Valley, Oregon : Rock. 1391 (XVII). 
Carder, E. E., South Sioux City, Nebr. : Insect. 1263 ( X). 
Carlisle, Dr. J. P., Cold Springs, Tex. : Cretaceous echiuoid (?). (Returned.) 1603 

(XIII-B). 
Carter, I, C, Macon, Ga. : Vegetable substance. 1772 (XV). 
Cartel", Miss Sue, Cloverport, Ky. : Mineral. 1682 ( XVI). 
Case, Mrs. H. M., Emmetsburg, Iowa : Plant. 1315 (XV). 

Chambers, G. W., Eggcr, Ark. : 2 specimens of ores. (Returned.) 1647 (XVII). 
Chambers, . I. C, Paint Rock, Tenu. : Ancient Hebrew manuscript, ancient Hebrew 

book, 2 phylacteries in cases with straps. (Returned.) 1723 (I). 
Chapman, Gilman, Bethel, Mc. : Insect. 1262 (X). 

Chase, .lames II.. Wenatchee, Wash.: Quartz; rock. 1340. 1419 (XVI, XVII). 
Chatham. W. S., Roanoke, Va. : Mineral substance found in sinking a shaft for iron. 

1685 (XVI). 
Chesney, J. C, Northumberland, Pa. : Ore. 1361 (XVII). 
Christy, W. H., Xew York City : Metallized fossil from Peru. 1405 (XII). 
Church, F. L., Shushan, X. V. : Alcoholic specimen of six-legged frog. 1337 (24770) 

(VI.) 

Church, Mrs. J. L. W Hake, Ky. : Insect, 1355 (X). 

Clark, A. Howard, Gloucester, Mass.: Portion of shoulder-girdle of skate. (Re- 
turned.) 1413 (XII). 
Clark, Alexander, Port Angeles, Wash. : Ore. (Returned.) 1161 (XVII). 
Clarke. D.O., Perico, Fla,: Insect, 1588 (X). 
< louse, Henry, Phebe, Tenn.: Ore. 1668 (XVII). 
Cole, James, Meadville. Pa: 2 specimens of quartz. 1695 (XVI). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 35 

Coleman, B. L., Poindexter's Store, Va: : Moth. 1282 (X). 

Collins, Dr. William, Somerset, Pa.: Surveyor's compass made by Rittenhouse and 

Potts, and used on the Mason and Dixon line survey in 1763-1767. (Returned. ) 

1505 (I). 
Cone, C. C, Lagrange, Ind. : Moth. 124!) i X ). 
Cook, E. F., Omaha, Nebr. : Butterfly. ( 1375 (X). 
Cook, Frank, Houston, Idaho: .Rock. (Returned.) 1272 (XVII). 
Cook, R. E., Nottingham, Ala. : Clay. 1637 ( X V 1 1 ). 
Cooper, L. F., Crescent City, Cal. : Rock. 1657 (XVII). 
Cooper, Samuel. (See under George Weston. ) 

Copeland, .1. B., Harrisburg, Pa.: 2 specimens of stones. 1341 (XVII). 
Cornick, Miss L. A. B., Genito, Va. : Minerals. (Returned.) 1287 (XVI). 
Coyne, P. .1., Gratersville, Ariz. : (Pottery (?) 1770 (III). 
Craig, J. W., Mushet, Va. : Micaceous hematite. 1476 (XVII). 

Creveco'ur, F. F., Onaga, Kans. : 25 species of miscellaneous insects. 1502 (25028) (X). 
Crites, Stanley M., Pipestone, Mich. : Rock. (Returned.) 1458 (XVII). 
Crockett, J. T., Chambersburg, Ind. : Insect. 1445 (X). 
Crook, Robert L., Eastonville, Colo. : Insect. 1493 (X). 
Crosby, Prof. W. O., Boston, Mass. : Eruptive rocks. 1408 (X VII ). 
Cunningham, Burton L., Fort Klamath, Oregon: Butterflies. 1382 (X). 
Curry, Mrs. Hattie G., Sioux City, Iowa: Moth. 1264 (X). 
Dahl, F. O., Libby, Mont. : Stone implement. 1546 (25432) (III ). 
Daniel, Dr. Z. T., Blackfeet Agency, Piegan, Mont.: Stone, supposed to he a petri- 
fied imprint of a moccasin foot in soft sand, found by a Blackfeet Indian in Two 

Medicinal Creek. 1745 (25834) (III). 
Daniels, William H., Fairhaven, Wash.: Insect. 1357 (X). 
Darling, Elisha, Ridgway, Colo.: Mineral. 16S7 (XVI). 
Davis, B. S., Charlotte, N. C. : Plant. 1733 (XV). 
Dell, Edward H., Scottsville, Mo., through Hon. Samuel W. Peel, M. C. : Madstone. 

(Returned.) 1585 (II-A). 
Demcker, Robert, New York City: Minerals. 1703 (25758) (XVI). 
De Meules. A. J., Organ, N. Mex. : Rocks. 1491 (XVII). 
Dennett, W. S., Saco, Me. : Insects. 1494 (X). 

Detrick, W. L., Julian, Cal.: 3 specimens of ores. (Returned.) 1616 (XVII). 
Devereux, A., Decatur, Tex.: Fossil; stone. 1320, 1559 (VIII, XVII). 
Dietz, Ottomar, New York City: 237 species of Coleoptera. (Returned.) 1623 (X). 
Diggins, II. \\\, Springfield, Mo.: Ore. 1747 (XVII). 
Diggles, Mrs. J. A., Etna, Cal.: Insect, 1313 (X). 
Dodge, Mrs. Charles, jr., San Carlos, Ariz. : Large basket made by Chilclmana, an 

Apache Indian chief. 1523 (25088) ( II-A). 
Dmvniiiiiii, R. H., Warrenton, Va.: Insect, 1117 (X). 
Drake, Harry, Hatton, 111. : Insect. 1366 (X). 
Duges, Prof. A., Guanajuato, Mex.: Insects; coral, parasitic worms. 1536, 1716 

(25780), 1385, 1409 (X, XI). 
Duulap, R. S., Greenfield, Ohio: Carved bone. 1632 (III). 

Du Pre", Prof. D. A., Wofford College, Spartanburg, S. C. : Mineral. 1190 (XVI). 
Duscoll, M., Billings, Mont,: 2 butterflies. 1762 (X). 
Eaton, Lucy C, Truro, Nova Scotia: Insects. 1690 (X). 
Ebaugh, Jeremiah, Carrollton, Md. ; Ore. 1640. (Returned.) 1666 (XVII). 
Eckart, Edward, Waupun, Wis.: Butterfly. 1336 (X). 

Eells, A. F., Boston, Mass.: Granite from Buck's Harbor. Maine. 1571 (XVII). 
Egglestou, Mrs. L.T., Forest Depot. Va.: Leaf of plant. L807 (XV). 
Elker, R. F., Kenterville, Idaho: Ore. 1431 (XVII). 
Ellis, F. G., Hogan, Mont.: Skull of mammal. 1663 (IV). 
Ellitkorpe, O. A., Gainesville, Tex. : Concretion. (Returned.) 1548 < XI1I-B). 



36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Emerson Brothers, Santa Ana. Cal. : Insect. I T lit (X). 

Eimnert, John W., Bristol, Tenu. : Chipped implements and a human skull. 1697 

(HI). 
Ensign, George A., Defiance, Ohio: Insect. 1309 (X). 
Evans, lion. H. (lay. Chattanooga, Tenn. : Rock. 1572 (XVI). 
Evans. William A.. Jacksonville, Fla.: Insect. 1518 (X). 
Faucher, C. H., Flagstaff", Ariz.: Phosphate rocks. 1592 (XVII). 
Faulk, Charles, East Liverpool, Ohio: Ore. (Returned.** 1560 (XVII). 
Ferguson, .1. M., Bald (reck. X. C: Mineral. 1501 (XVI). 
Ferris, ('. 1.., West Aid. urn. Pa.: Insect. 1279 (X). 
field, E. R., Helper, Utah: Fossil lish. 1741 (VIII). 
Field, J. A., New Castle, Pa.: Plant. 1291 (XV). 

Finney, Mrs. A. P., Washington, D. C. : Ore. (Returned.) 1462 (XVII). 
Finnigan, Thomas, Bunlap, Ariz.: 8 specimens of rock. 1702 (XVII). 
Fitch, M. L., Logansport, Ind. : Insect. 1701 (X). 
Fitzgerald, J. C, Greenville, S. C. : Alcoholic specimen of jointed or glass snake. 

1581 (25484) (VI). 
Fitzjohn, A. W., Toledo, Ohio: Insect. 1326 (X). 

Flack. .1. O., Atoka, Ind. T. : 2 specimens of rock. (Returned.) 1463 (XVII). 
Flag,-, H. W., Martinsburg, W. Va. : Rock. (Returned.) 1662 (XVII). 
Fletcher, S., Phebe, Tenn. : 7 specimens of rocks. (Returned.) 1691 (XVII). 
Ford, K. T., Naillon, Tenn. : 2 small specimens of rock. 1612 (XVII). 
Forrer, R., Strashurg, Germany : 43 specimens of antique Roman and Byzantine 

textile fabrics, and 10 tablets of wood with Greek, Egyptian, and Coptic inscrip- 
tions. (Returned.) 1594(111). 
Forrester, Robert, Scofield, Utah: Seeds; fossils; fossil shells; fossils; eruptive rock ; 

1653 (returned); 1656 (returned); 1675 (returned); 1678, 1694 (returned) (one 

specimen retained, 26000). (XIII-B, XV, XVII). 
Fox, J. J., Horti, Fla. : Insects. 1370, 1464 (X). 
Foy, Alfred D., Lookout Mountain, Tenn.: Plants. 1725 (XV). 
Frazee, C. T., Villa Grove, Colo. : Small portion of the skeleton of a uiammd. 1253 

(IV). 
Five, Levi, Rinkerton, Va. : Ore, mineral. 1396, 1550 (XVII, XVI). 
Gallagher, E. J., Now York City: Mineral. 1543 (XVI). 
Calvin, C. D., New York City: Sample of supposed phosphate from North Carolina. 

(Returned.) 1321 (XVII). 
Garner, R. L., Roanoke, Va. : 4 teeth and 2 mammal horns (?) from the phosphate 

beds, Ashley River, South Carolina: 2 specimens of minerals. 1364, 1520 (VIII, 

XVI). 
i See under J. Williams. ) 
Garwood, II. C, Jersey City Heights, X. J. : Insect. 1399 (X). 
Gaskill, S. I., Salesville, Mont, : Ore. 1586 (XVII). 
Gay, Miss Agatha, Staunton, Va. : Insects. 1778 (X). 
Gibbs, W. B.. Jackson. W. Va. : Rocks. (Returned. ) 1380 (XVII). 
Gieger, Martha A.. Silver, Wash. : Ores. 1318 (XVII). 
Gilbert. Mrs. L. R., Plainfield, X..).: 44 species of Lepidoptera; 37 species of Lepi- 

doptera from the United States and Ireland. 1484 (returned), 1535 (X). 
Gilmore, C. W., Pipestone, Minn. : Worm. 1407 (X). 
Gilmore, Mrs. J. W., North Fork, Cal. : Butterfly. 1331 (X). 
Glenn, Harvey L.. Livingston, Mont. : Mineral. 1674 (XVI). 
Goldsmith, J., Carlisle, N.Mex.: Ore. (Returned.) 1251 (XVII). 
Graham, Miss Rebecca, Davenport College, Lenoir, N. C. : Wasp. 1439 (X). 
Gray, Harry and Ethel. Dell, Oregon : Insect. 1856 (X). 
Griffin, Miss Anna H., Columbus. Ga. : Insect. 1398 (X). 



. REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37 

Gudie, Robert, Nashville, S. Dak.: Sample of sand, .small piece of rock out of which 

it was taken, aud 24 small pebbles. 1601) (XVTI). 
Hagner, Gen. P. N.. U. S. Army. Washington, D. C. : Ores. 1642 (XVII), 
Hale, Dr. E. M., Chicago, 111. : Snake. 1654 (25595) (VI). 

Hall. Dr. C. II.. Madison. Wis.: 2 lead models of turtle. (Returned.) 1394 (III). 
Halley, J. T.. Middlesboro. Ky. : Fossil plants. 1760 (XIV). 
Ham. Mrs. K.C., Albany. N. V.: Insect. 1344 (X). 
Hammers, .1. E., Luray, Va. : Butterfly, insect. 1322, 1764 (X). 
Hanske. E. A., Bellevue, Iowa: Petrification. 14!»<x (XVII). 
Harris, D. M., Homer. La. : Moth. 1260 (X). 

Harris, Mary V., Cherry ( 'reek. Miss. : Sample of earth. (Returned.) 1371 (XVII). 
Harris, T. S., New York City : Sample of clay; brown sandstone. 1655,1669. (Re- 
turned.) (XVII.) 
Hart, Mrs. J. M., Blaekstone, Va. : Insect, 1330 (X). 
Hasbrouck, H. J.. Idaho Falls, Idaho : Ore. 1752 (XVII). 

Haskell, L.. Fort Meade, Fla. : Specimen of supposed pbosphate. 1671 (XVII). 
Hassett, E., Atoka, Ind. T. ; Two specimens of rocks. 1433 (XVII). 
Hassett, E. B., St. Paul, Ark. : Ore. 1758 (XVII | . 

Hatcb, Prof. John W., Agricultural Institute, Hampton, Va. : Insect. 1511 (X). 
Hauschild, Henry, Sioux City, Iowa : Butterily. (Returned.) 1280 (X). 
Henry, MissMattie C, Lexington, Mich. : Butterfly. 1729 (X). 
Heron, D. S., Globe, Ariz. : Ore. (Returned.) 1553 (XVII). 
Herring, Mrs. E. B., Plainneld, X. J., through F. O. Herring: 25 species of Lepidop- 

tera. (Returned.) 1500 (X). 
Herring, F. 0. (See under Mrs. E. B. Herring.) 
Hester, L.G., Marble Falls, Tex. : Insect. 1349 (X). 
Heymann. S., Lafayetteville, Teun. : Three specimens of supposed gold. (Returned.) 

1576 (XVII). 
Hill, E. E. Rockland, Me. : Living specimens of beetles. 1455 (X). 
Hill, T. Scott, Augusta, Me. : Rock. 1569 (XVII). 
Hillyer, Miss Daisy, Corsicana, Tex. : Bone. 1672 (XII). 

Hoare and Fett, Findlay, Ohio: Radish shaped like a man's hand. 1286 (XV). 
Hobson, W. P., Pueblo, Colo.: Stone of peculiar formation. (Returned.) 1541 

(XVII). 
Hodges, Miss Corine L., Georgetown, Tex. : Butterfly. 1374 (X). 
Hollingswortb, Miss Sarah, Dogwood, Mo.: Minerals, stone, ore. 1358, 1472, 1570 

(XVI, XVII). 
Holmes, A. I., Roscoe, Mo. : Skull. 1555. (VIII). 
Holmes, N. D., Toledo, Ark. : Rock. (Returned.) 1435 (XVII). 
Holmes, W. H. (See under C. G. Brasbear.) 
Hooper, J. J., Selma, Ala. : Insect, 1367 (X). 
Hopkins, II., La Fayette, < (regon : Clay. 1710 (XVII). 
Horton, O. E. and M. ('.. Pendleton, S. C. : Two insects. 1334 (X). 
Houck, R, H., Springfield, Ohio: Fossil coral. 1362 (XIII-A). 
Hourston, Joseph, Cumberland House, Canada: Mineral and a small piece of the same 

material melted. 1688 (XVI). 
House, Miss Lily, State Mills, Virginia : Moth. 1378 (X ). 
Hovey, George F. S., White Church, Kans. : Stone. 17w0 (XVII). 
Howard, Ezra E., Edgar, Nebr. : Skin and skull of mountain goat from British 

Columbia. (Returned.) 1350 (IV). 
Huddleston, John R.. Kanawha Falls, W. Va. : Double-headed snake. 1384 (24823) 

(VI). 
Hummel, James, Gloversville, X. V. : 2 rocks. 1079 (XVII). 
Hungate, J.H.. La Harpe, 111.: 2 inscribed stones and 4 fragments of arrowheads 

found by Weyman Huston. (Returned.) 1504 'III). 



38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Hunt Bros., Sturgisi Miss. : Rocks. (Returned.) 1001 (XVII). 

Hunt, George H., Kingston, 111.: Spear-head. 1197 (III). 

Hunt, J. R.,jr., Stuigis, Miss. : Ore. (Returned.) 1641 (XVII). 

Hunt, W. T., Sturgis, Miss. : Mineral. 1591 (XVI). 

Hurd, Charles V., Harrisonburg, Va.: Insect. 1348 (X). 

Huston, W. (Sec under J. H. Hungate.) 

Hyatt, C. J., luka, Miss.: Geological material from the mountains of .Alabama. 

1720 (XVII). 
Ijinia, I. (See under Seienee College, Imperial University, Tokio.) 
Intram, Robert, Chenowith, Wash.: Iuseets. 1753 (X). 
.lames, H. A., Quartz, Okla, : Minerals, rock. 1575, 1652 (XVI, XVII). 
Jaske, Brother Herman, Normal School, Brothers of Mary, Dayton, Ohio: Fossils 

from Besancon, France ; specimens of marble. ( Returned. ) 1368 (XIII-A, X VI I ) . 
Johnson and .lames, Asheville, N. C. : 14 specimens of minerals. 1544 (XVI). 
Johnson, W. E., Galena, Kans. : Insect. 1373 (X). 
Johnston, F. J., New Carlisle, Ohio: Fragments of skull, bones, and 3 pieces of 

flint (?). 1562 (25633) (III). 
Jones, E. Walley & Sons, Seattle, Wash. : 3 specimens of minerals. 1451 (XVI). 
Kayser, William, Wapakoneta, Ohio: Insects. 1387, 1454 (X). 
Keenan, Michael, Springer, N. Mex. : Stone. 1265 (XVII). 
Kelly. C. M., Lewistown, Mont, : Insect. 1420 (X). 
Kenney, George, Elk, N. C. : Ore. (Returned.) 1604 (XVII). 
Kepler, Rev. William, Crestline, Ohio: 2 specimens of fossil cladodus. (Returned.) 

1412 (XII). 
Kincaid, Trevor, Olympia, Wash.: Series of Coleoptera, 1459 (X). 
King, F. G., Rochester, N. Y. : Clay. 1297 (XVII). 

Kirkbride, J. J.. Richwood, N. J. : Stone axe. (Returned.) 1319 (III). 
Kirksey, John R., Brindleton, N. C. : 230 Indian beads, grooved stone axe, 5 arrow- 
points taken from an Indian grave in North Carolina. (Returned.) 1755 (III). 
Kitchen, E. C, Brownwood, Tex. : Ore. 1696 (XVII). 

Knowles, F.E., Spencer, Iowa: Iowa grasses. 1519. (Returned.) 1298 (XV). 
Kunz, George F., New York City: 12 reproductions of ancient gems. 1524 (XVI). 
Lander, W. Tertsh, Williamston, S.C.: Fern. 1611 (XV). 
Lane, L. C, Frankfort, Ky.: Fossil shells. 1621 (25523) (XIII-A). 
Larsen, L, Alpha, Wash. : Mineral. 1430 (XVI). 
Lartigue, Dr. G. B., Blackville, S. C. : Plant. 1610 (XV). 
Laws, Franklin, Windom, N. C. : Minerals. 1392 (XVI). 
Lea, J.S., Roswell, N.Mex.: Rock. 1595 (XVII). 
Lee, A. E., Alpona, Wash. : Rocks. 1765 (XVII). 
Legare, Miss Clara, Charleston. S. C. : Twelve buttons, taken from the uniform of 

Thomas Jones, who served in the Revolutionary war. (Returned.) 1226 (I). 
Lewis, B., Thurber, Utah. Rock. 1580 (XVII). 
Lewis. William H., North Fork, Pa. : Mineral. 1534 (XVI). 
Lighton, William R., < hnaha. Nebr. : Fossils. 1658 (XIII-A). 
Ligon, Joseph, Massic's Mill, Va. : Mineral. 1488 (XVI). 
Lindsey, 11. A., Asheville, N. C. : Mineral. 1513 (XVI). 
Linthicum, Cassady, Hyattstown, Md. : Ores. 1376. (Returned.) 1734. 
Lipscomb, R. S., Beans Creek, Tenn. : Spider. 1327 (X). 
Livingston, Alexander, Wichita, Kans. : Four specimens, supposed to be Chinese or 

Japanese coins. 1530 (I). 
Long, John. Sand Point Station. Idaho: Ore. 1432 (XVII). 
Long, Le Roy, LowesviUe, N. C. : Insect, 1295 (X). 
Louden. J. Albert. Frenchville, W. Va. : Spanish bill ($30). 1531 (I). 
Lowe, Camille, Knights Ferry, Cal. : Insects. 1406, 14S0 (X). 
Lowe, James IL, Knights Ferry, Cal.: Butterfly. 1318 (X). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39 

Lowenstein, William, jr., Keokuk, Iowa: Four specimens of beetles. 1274 (X ). 
Luce, George S., Galesville, Wis. : Clay found in a phosphate bed in Florida. 1739 

(XVII). 
Luke, J. C, Irwinville, Ga. : Insect. 1273 (X). 
Luse, J. E., Cisco, Tex. : Ore. 1452 (XVII). 
Lyle, S. W., Madisou, Ind. : Moth. 1314 (X). 
Lyons, Rev. J. A., Gonzales, Tex. : Plant. 1732 (XV). 

McAlerney, C. W., Plymouth, Pa.: 1 specimens of rock. (Returned.) 1578 (XVII). 
McCann, A. F., Jeffersonville, Ind.: Insect. 1400 (X). 
McConnel, William, Muncie, Ind. : Insect. 1363 (X). 
McDonald, Col. Marshall, U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries, through Mr. Richard 

Rathbun: 2 specimens of minerals. 1302 (XVI). 
McGloskey, Joseph J., Asheville, N. C: Butterfly. 1335 (X). 
McGuire, F. M.. Chico, Mont, : Ore. 1456 (XVII). 

Mclntyre, James M. R., River Dennis, Nova Scotia: Insect, 1495 (X). 
McKendree, Mrs. M. L., Fort Klamath, Oregon: Collection of butterflies. 1769 (X). 
McLucas, J. D., Marion, S. C. : Scales of Gar. 1275 (VII). 
MacRae, Hugh, Wilmington, N. C. : Small seed. 1737 (XV.) 
McVay, William, Prineville, Oregon: Ore. 1598 (XVII). 
Main, H. H., Lincoln, Nebr. : Insects. 1285 (X). 

Malone, George W., Hornbeak Post Office, Tenu. : Ore. (Returned.) 1532 (XVII). 
Marsh. Charles H., Dulzura, Cal. : Pale bat, 1768 (25941) (IV) (purchased for 

World's Columbian Exposition). 
Marsh, Charles W., Topeka, Kans. : Spider. 1397 (X). 
Martin, John, & Company, Montreal, Canada : Two musk oxen. (Returned.) 1754 

(IV). 
May, William, Cooperstown, N. Y. : 2 specimens of moth. 1278 (X). 
Mercer, R. W., Cincinnati, Ohio: 25 specimens of arrow-points made by Prof. J. C. 

Steele, of Wallula, Wash. (Returned.) 1434(111). 
Merchant, Rufus B., Fredericksburg. Va. : Insect. 1289 (X). 
Mercier, W. G., Alpha, Wash.: Ore. (Returned.) 1403 (XVII). 
Merrill, G. P. (See under Prof. W. J. Brown.) 

Miles, William H., Salt Lake City, Utah: Clay. (Returned.) 1673 (XVII). 
Miller. H.D., Plainville, Conn. : 2 specimens of mica and specimen of quartz crystal. 

1485 (XVI). 
Miller, J. S., Chewelah, Wash. : Ore, 1722 (XVII). 

Miller, W., Grand Rapids, Mich. : Fossil shells and other material. 1619 (XIII-A). 
Mirick, H. D., The Portland, Washington, D. C. : Samples of clay and shale. 1618 

(XVII). 
Monroe, Arthur B., Le Raysville, Pa. : Insect, 1766 (X). 
Morehouse, F. A., Atlantic Highlands, N. J. : Stone implement found in Bethel, Conn. 

(Returned.) 1741 (III). 
Moyers, F. H., Copp's Ford, Tenn. : Ore. (Returned.) 1426 (XVII). 
Murch, Elmer F., Ellsworth, Me. : Birds' skins. 1617,1746. (Returned.) (V-A). 
Mnrn, Paul, Boulder, Mont, : ( >re. 1638 (XVII). 
Myers, A., Havre, Mont, : Insects. 1414 (X). 

Narrin, Mrs. M. L., Goodrich, Mich. : 3 specimens of rocks. 1288 (XVII). 
Navarre, LA., Chelan, Wash.: Ore. 1596 (XVII). 
Neal, Dr. James C, Lake City, Fla. : Minerals. 1312 (XVI ). 
Neefe, Miss Bessie, Sweden. Pa. : Insect. 1267 ( X ). 
Nehring, Prof. A., Berlin, Germany : Specimens of a remarkable seed (fruit from the 

lower peatbogs of Klinge). 1751 (XV). 
Nelson, William. Columbia, Va. : Specimen of supposed soapstone and a specimen of 

ore. 1339 (XVII). 



40 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Newlon, Dr. W. S., Oswego, Kans. : Mineral; doll's head supposed to have been found 

in bituminous coal; mammal bones; mineral or rock; fossil wood. 1291.1487. 

( Returned. | 1549, 1649, 1709 (XVI, III, Mil, XVI, XIV). 
Newport, Miss Eddie. Glasgow, Ky. : Living snake, sent with a view to purchase. 

1446 (24894) (VI). 
old, II. ('.. Blairsville, Pa.: Owl, woodchuck, and partridge. (Returned.) 1529 

(V-A). 
Oliver, Stanley A., Texarkana, Ark.: Insect. 1749 (X). 

Olney, A. M., Wyoming, R. I. : Worm found iu the gizzardof a hen. 1731 (XI). 
Omdorff, ('.. Mount Olive Post Office, Va. : Ore. 1248 (XVII). 
Osburn, William, Nashville, Tenn.: Insects from Colorado. 1597 (X). 
Overstreet, J. T., jr., Elmwood, Tenn.: Indian pipe. (Returned.) 1552 (III). 
Overstreet, Robert L., Dade City, Fla. : Butterfly. 1728 (X). 

Palmer, James, Grantsville, Utah : Ore from Eagle Mine, Skull Valley mining dis- 
trict. (Returned.) 1257 (XVII). 
Peel, Hon. Samuel W., M. ('. (See under Edward H. Dell.) 
Pence, W. C, Shenandoah, Va. : Spider. 1353 (X). 

Pennypacker, J. L., Haddonfield, N. J. : Stone implement. (Returned.) 1424(111). 
Perkins, F. S., Burlington, Wis.: 395 copper implements and perforated tooth of a 

bear. 1761(111). 
Terry, George W., State geologist, Rutland, Vt. : Teeth of mammal. (Returned.) 

1359 (IV). 
Picher, Miss Annie I!.. Pasadena, (al. : Samples of Indian drawn- work, East Indian 

drawn-work, and Spanish drawn-work. 1465 (II-A). 
Pisor, J. II., Hon-, Mont,: Stones, rock. 1276 1726 (XVII). 
Player, P. P., Bledsoe, Ala. : 2 specimens of ore. (Returned.) 1571 (XVII). 
Picas, C. E., Clinton, Ark.: 3 wasps. 1740 (X). 

Porter & Butler, Baker City, Oregon: 2 specimens of stone. 1684 (XVII). 
Powell, Dr. Tate, Starke, Fla.: Insect, 1444 (X). 
Price. Samuel, Dunlap, Ariz.: 2 specimens of rock. 1702 (XVII i. 
Prindle, A. T., Ebensburg, Pa.: Giant water-bug. 1713 (X). 
Proctor. .).('.. l.S. National Museum: Insect. 1377 (X). 
Qnelch, Bertram, Wilmington, X. C. : 2 butterflies. 1332 (X). 
Raber, Charles A., South Riverside, Cal. : Ore. (Returned.) 1573 (XVII). 
Ragland, .1. M., Osceola, Mo. : Mineral. 1526 (XVI). 
Ragsdale, G. H-., Gainesville, Tex. : Marine shells ; 2 birds' skins. (Returned.) 1388 

(V-A, IX). 
Rathbun, Richard. (See under Col. Marshall McDonald.) 
Rathfin, Jesse, West Fairview, Pa.: Insects. 1306 (X). 
Rawlings, 1>. A., Box Elder, Colo.: Rock. (Returned.).. 1661 (XVII). 
Raw son, Prank. Judson, Ga. : Copper coin, (Returned.) 1259 (I). 
Ray, Garrett, D., Burnsville, X. C: Mineral. 1545 (XVI). 
Remington, S. C, Phillipsburg, Mont,: Ore. (Returned.) 1563 (XVII). 
Remsbnrg, George .1., Oak Mills, Kans.: Fragments of bones found iu a mound near 

Oak Hill. 1521 (III). 
Rexward, Henry, Thomas, W. Va. : Mineral. 1284 (XVI). 
Richardson, W. D., Fredericksburg, Va. : Insects. (Returned.) 1660 (X). 
Richmond, Charles W., Greytown, Nicaragua: Bows and arrows; 2 archaeological 

objects; mammal skin; birds' skins; birds' eggs; reptiles and batrachians; 

fishes; shells, insects; crustaceans; bone. (Purchased, with the exception of 

mammal skin, birds' eggs, and bone). 1692 i II-A. III. IV, V-A. V-B. VI, VII, IX. 

X, XI, XII). (The bone — sternum of Brown Pelican — was retained under accession 

26460.) 
Kicketts, Miss L. W., Baton Rouge, La. : Worm. 1418 (X). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 41 

Ridenour, Joseph, Buckton, Va : Insect. 1381 (X). 

Ridenour, William 15., Brooklyn. X. V. : Subterranean fungi. L404 (XV). 

Rider, 1. 1., Granite Canon. Wyo. : Water insects. 1714 (25779) I X ). 

Roberts, P. H.,Graball, Tex. : Medal supposed to have belonged to La Salle, which 
was lost in Montgomery County, Tex., and recently found while plowing. ( Re- 
turned. ) 1517 i 1 ). 

Robinson, S. A., Orlando, Fla.: Small fossils; samples of phosphatic deposits. 1473, 
L628(XII,XVI). 

Rogan, James \Y.. Rogersville, Tenn. : Bird in the flesh. 1169 (XII). 

Rogers, Archibald, Hyde, Park on Hudson. X. V.: Collection of drawings by George 
Catlin. (Returned.) 1667 (I). 

Rogers, O. P., Marengo, 111. : Supposed meteoric iron and hoy-iron ore. 1514 (XVI). 

Romeyn, Capt. Henry, U. S. A., Mount Vernon, Ala. : Specimen of supposed poisonous 
spider. 1317 (X). 

Roslmrough, .1. B., Aransas Pass. Tex. : Rock deposits and soil. 1453 (XVII). 

Rosenthal, Joseph, New York City, X. Y. : li skins of Birds of Paradise. 1254 (24589) 
(V-A). 

Rothenllue, Peter U., San Antonio. Tex.: Violin. (Returned.) 1336(1). 

Rowe, C. H., Worcester, Mass.: Five lots of insects. (Returned.) 1474,1582,1643, 
1705,1763 (X). 

Rnggles, Charles. Bronson, Mich.: Ivory implement from near Orland. Ind. (Re- 
turned.) 1584(111). 

Sampsell, Miss Addie, New Orleans, La. : Insect. 1506 (X ). 

Sanders, A. G., Sanders, Cal. : Plants. 1507 (XV). 

Sandford, J. W. A. .jr.. Montgomery, Ala. : Butterfly. 1401 (X ). 

Seherr, Julius. Eglon, W. Va. : Mineral. 1644 (XVI). 

Schramm, Ernst. Leavenworth. Kans. : Insect. 1347 (X). 

Science College, Imperial University, Tokio, Japan, through Prof. I. Ijima: 68 Jap- 
anese birds. 1712 (V-A). 

Shaffer, A. W., Raleigh, N. C. : Fragment of feldspar. 1470 (XVII ). 

Shannon, W. W., Clay Lick, Ohio.: Small image from a mound on Flint Ridge. 
(Returned.) 153!) (III). 

Sharp, Dr. D. (See under British Museum.) 

Shearer, Mrs. R. A., Stotiel, Xev. : Insects. 1372, 1496, 1525 (X). 

Shelton, J. C, Roseland, Va. : Minerals. 1416 (XVI). 

Shott, W. C, M. A., Principal of New Philadelphia Business College, New Philadel- 
phia, Ohio: Butterfly. 1256 (X). 

Shumaker, P. F.. Flat Creek, La. : Sample of black and white sand. 16S3 (XVII). 

Simpson, A.M., Forinan, X. Dak. : Cocoons taken from box elder trees. 1676 (X). 

Simpson. Stewart, Ruthburg, Idaho: Rock. 1715 (XVII). 

Sinaw, William, Eutaw, Ala.: 3 stone implements. 1698 (III). 

Sivyer, Leonard D., Spokane, Wash.: Qre. (Returned.) 1579 (XVII). 

Slocum, J.W., Knoxville, Tenn. : Mineral. 1730 (XVI). 

Smith, A.M., Minneapolis, Mini). : Collection of American colonial coins and paper 
money. (The larger partof this collection was returned.) 1743 (I). 

Smith, B.O., Lyerly, Ga. : Minerals. 1311 (XVI). 

Smith, Charles X , Bell Branch, Mich.: 5 archaeological objects. (Returned.) 17(17 
(III). 

Smith, Mrs. E. L., LaPlata, N.Mex.: Stone and an ornament made of stone. (Re- 
turned.) 1699 (XVII). 

Smith, G. A., Liberty, Tenn.: Insect. 1428 (X). 

Smith, Harlan I., Saginaw, Mich.: Alcoholic specimen of a portion of the leg of a 
water amphibian, covered with a peculiar growth; alcoholic specimens of some 
parts of crayfish with parasites attached. 1735 (XV). 



42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892, 

Smith, John E., Fort Supply, Ind. Terr. : Spider. 1483 (X). 

Smith, Joseph E., Post Oak Springs, Term.: Mineral. 1627 (XVI), 

Snyder, Jacob, Two Taverns, Pa.: Supposed meteorite. (Returned.) 1320 (XVI). 

Snyder, W. E., Beaver Dam. Wis. : 46 species of coleoptera; 24 specimens of coleop- 
tera. 1299, 1717 (25781) (X). 

Somers, Dr. J. F., Crislield, Md. : Slug. 1478 (24942) (XI). 

Somers, John, Cle-Elum, Wash. : Specimen of supposed quartz and 2 specimens of 
supposed coal. 1360 (XVII). 

Soule, George, Billings, Mont.: Male Rocky Mountain sheep. 1561 (25298) (IV). 

Speer, Mrs. F. S. (See under I. S. V. Speer.) 

Speer, I. S. V., Wooster, Ohio, through Mrs. F. S. Speer: Moth. 1281 (X). 

Spencer, E., Big Pine, Cal. : 4 specimens of ore. 1677 (XVII). 

Spencer, Miss Florence J., Lake Worth, Fla. ; Insect. 1448 (X). 

Sprinkel. Mrs. H. A., Dulinsville, Va. : Insect. 1492 (X). 

Sprinkel, J. W., Dulinsville, Va, : Insects. 1450, 1460 (X). 

Squires, W. H., The Plains, Va. : Mineral. 1527 (XVI). 

Stacy, W. D., Hampton, Va. : Specimens of dried rats. (Returned.) 1605 (IV). 

Staples, E., jr., Riverside, Cal. : Shark's egg. 1583 (VII). 

Steele, Prof. John C, Pock Hill, S. C. : Rock. 1538 (XVII ). 
(See under R. W. Mercer.) 

Stephenson, A., Cincinnati, Ohio: Indian arrow-head from San Miguel Island, oppo- 
site Santa Barbara, Cal. 1693 (25720) (III). 

Stevens, W.E., Wenatchee, Wash. : Ores. 1436, 1509 (XVII). 

Stinson, B., New York City: Clay from Indiana. 1540 (XVII). 

Stony, Thomas H., Duluth, Minn. : Mammal skins. (Returned.) 1411 (IV). 

Stoutfer, Jeremiah, Wooddale, Pa,: Ores. 1593, 1599, 1639. (Returned.) (XVII.) 

Stout, R.C., Caddo, Tex. : Rocks. 1686. (Returned.) 1708 (XVII). 

Stovall, D. O., Muldrow, Ind. T. : Nuts. i:>67 (XV). 

Stufflebeam, H. E., Delaney, Ark. : Ore. 1736 (XVII). 

Stump, W. J., Hartmonsville. W. Va. : < >re. 1707 ( XVII). 

Suprenant, J. V., Anaconda, Mont, : Ores. (Returned.) 1537 (XVII). 

Swarthout, E. H., Little Rock Creek, N. C. : Ores. 1383 (XVII). 

Taylor, Jones, Ivanpah, Cal. : Ores. (Returned.) 132") (XVII). 

Taylor, N. W., Oberlin. Ohio: Arrow-head. (Returned.) 1528(111). 

Teagardeu, G. H., Memphis Mine, ( >rgan, X. Mex. : Rocks. 1499 (XVII). 

Thompson, H. G., Menekaunee, Wis. : Insect. 1449 (X). 

Thompson, William Nelles, Chatham, Kent County. Ontario, Canada: Confedera- 
tion belt. (Returned.) 1757 (II-A). 

Thomson, G. S.. Nashville, Tenn. : Cryptogams. 1633 (XV). 

Thome, R. F., Iuka, Miss.: Red clay and mineral. (Returned.) 1606 (XVII). 

Thornton, II. R., New York City Ivory coat of mail obtained from an Eskimo of 
Cape Prince of Wales, and plates of iron dug up at the same place. 1590 (26018) 
(II-A). 

Thorp, Keedie E., Renwiek, Iowa: Insect, 1481 (X). 

Tifton, McN. (No address given except Green Mountains): Mineral. 1646 (XVI). 

Tingley, D. S., San Mateo, Florida: Insect. 1427 (X). 

Tompkins, Charles C, Salem, Va. : Insect, 1665 (X). 

Torrence, Charles E., Washington Heights, 111. : Insect. 1258 (X). 

Trump, A. C, Lake Valley, N. Mex.: Ore. (Returned.) 1551 (XVII). 

Truslow, Edward, Summit, N. J. : Insects. 1425 (X). 

Turner, Dr. J. S., Granbury. Tex. : Insects. 1630 (X). 

Ulrich, E. ( >. Newport, Ky. : Graptolites. 1486 (XIII-A). 

Van Deren, 0. E., Cottonwood. Ariz. : Stone. 1645 (XVII). 

Van Dyke. J . ( '., Buffalo, Wyo, : Insect, 1438 (X). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43 

Vaill, E. !•:., St. Augustine, Fla.:.Clay. 1533 (XVII). 

Velie, Dr. .1. W., Academy of Natural Science, Chicago, III.: Calcareous sponges 
from northern Michigan. 1558 (XI). 

Vickers, George H., Lame Deer, Mont. : Supposed volcanic material. (Returned.) 
1568 (XVII). 

Von Ringharz, Theo., Middletown, Va. : Mineral. 1613 I XVI). 

Walker, J. M., Kingston, N. Mex. : Minerals. 1442 (XVI). 

Wallace, H. C, Alta City. Utah. : < >re. 1510 (XVII). 

Wallace, James L., Shreveport, La.: Insect. 1748 (X). 

Waltermire, Amos S., Fort Smith, Ark. : Mineral. 1300 (XVI). 

Warner, Claude C, Carthage, Mo.: Insect. 1704 (X). 

Warren, Henry & Son, Oregon, Tenn. : Ore. 1292 (XVII). 

Wayman, G. Turner, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, West Indies: About 1,050 specimens, 
representing 90 species of butterflies from Trinidad. 1471 (25335) (X). 

Weary, Conrad, Seattle, Wash. : Hair ball taken from the stomach of a cow. (Re- 
turned.) 1651 (IV). 

Weiuert, Felix, Steamboat Springs, Colo.: Supposed stone. (Returned.) 1466 
(XVI). 

Wentwortk, J. W., Payson. Ariz.: Ore. (Returned.) 1475 (XVII). 

Weston, George, Stevens Point, Wis., through Mr. Samuel Cooper: Wax impressions 
of coins. 1429 (XVI). 

Wheat, Rev. Q. A., Wardensville, W. Va. : Mineral. 1270 (XVI). 

White, A. W., Albert Lea, Minn. : Stone implement. (Returned.) 1635 (III). 

Whitenian, Rev. George H.. Harwood, X'. Dak. : Insect. 1415 (X). 

Whitton, William R., Seattle, W r ash. : Fossil tooth of mammal. 1308 (VIII). 

W T ilkes, Miss Sarah E., Charlie Hope, Va. : Sample of earth. 1354 (XVII). 

Williams, J. H., Charleston, S. C, through R. L. Garner: Pones from the phosphate 
beds uear Charleston. 1365 (VIII). 

Wilson. Reid A., Connecticut: Moth. 1268 (X). 

Wilson, Miss Tillie, Stockton, N. J. : Worm. 1305 (X). 

Wilvert, E., Sunbury, Pa., through S. P. Wolverton: Ores; mineral. 1310, 1680, 
1522 (XVI, XVII). 

Y\ inters, Milo, Crown Point Center, X. Y. : Ores. (Returned.) 1550 (XVII). 

Wolverton, S. P. (See under Emile Wilvert.) 

Woodruff, Miss Anna, Wessington, S. Dak. : Butterfly. 1333 (X). 

Woodruff, L. D., jr., Johnstown, Pa. : Butterfly. 1252 (X). 

Woodward, Charles L., New York City: Three of Catlin's cartoons, lull-length por- 
traits of Indians. (Returned.) 1614 (II-A). 

Worthex, C. K., Warsaw, 111.: Wolves' skins; mammal skin; 91 named skins and 
skulls. 1321. 1542, 1577 (IV). 

Wotherspoon, Lieut. W. W., U. S. A., Mount Vernon, Ala. : Ore. 1681 (XVII). 

Yeatts, I.. K.. Elba, Va. : Ores. 1283 (XVII). 



44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Index to list of specimens sent for examination and report, arrant/erf geographically. 



Source. 



No. of lot. 



Total. 



North America: 

British America 

i Vntral America . ... 

Mexico 

United States: 

Alabama 

Arizona 

Arkansas 

California 

Colorado 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia 
Florida 

Georgia 

Idaho 

Illinois 

Indian Territory - . 

Indiana 

lima 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

L misiana ■- 

Maine 

Man land 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 

Mississippi 

Missouri 

Montana 

Nebraska 

Nevada . 

New Jersej 

New Mexico 

New York 

North ( Carolina 

North Dakota 

Ohio 

( iklaliom.i Territorj 

i >regon 

Pennsylvania 



1350, 1495, 1688, 1690, 1754,1757 

1692 

1385, 1409, 1536, 1590, 1716 

1317, 1367, 1401 1574, 1637. 1G81. 1608 

1468, 147.".. 1523, 1553, 1592, 164.",. 1702, 1756, 1770 

1300, 14:;.".. 1447. 1521, 1564, 1636, 1047. 1740, 1740. 1758 

1313, 1318, 1325, 1331, 1406. 1421. 1441, 146".. 1480, 1507, 1547, 

1573, 1583, 1616, 1620, 1625, 1677. 1693, 1710. 1768. 

1253, 1466. HO:;, 1541. 1597, 1 661, 1687 

1268, 1485, 150 I, 1657,1741 

1557 

1302, 1328, 1377,1462,1589, 1618.1642 

1312, 1323, 1370. 1427. 1444, 144s, 4464. 1467,1473, 1518, 1533. 

1588, 162S. 1671, 1728,1730. 

1250. 1273, 1311, 1398, L650, 1772 

1272. 1431, 1432, 1648. 1689, 1715. 1752 

1258, 1290, 1321, 1366. 1407. 1504. 1514. 1542. 1558. 1577,1654, 

1050. 
1433, 1463. 1483. 1567 

1249, 1314. 1363. 1400. 1437. 1445. 1540. 1584. 1701, 1724 

1250, 1264, 1274, 1280, 1208. 1315, 1481, 1408, 1519, 1626 

1?91, 1347. 1373. 1397. 1487. 1502, 1512. 1530. 1549, 1649, 1700, 

1700.1711. 

1355.1446. 1486, 1516. 1621. 1682, 1760 

1260, 1418. 1506. 1683. 1 748 

1262. 1271. 1455. 1404, 1560. 1571, 1617. 1746 .'. 

1376, 1395, 147S. 1640. 1666. 1734 

1408. 1413,1474, l."82. 1624. 1643. 1705, 1763 

1288. 1458. 1619, 1707, 1729. 1735 

1 358. 1 407. 1411 , 1635. 1 743 

1371.1501.1601. 1606. 1641.1720 

1260. 1304. 1472, 1526, 1555. 1570, 1585. 1704. 1747. 1771 

1276, 1386, 1414. 1420, 1456. 1537, 1546. 1561. 1563. 1568. 1586. 

1600, 1638, 1663, 1674, 1726. 1745. 1762. 

1 263. 1285. 1 375. 1402. 1 658 

1372. 1 496. 1525 

1305, 1319. 1300, 1424. 1425. 1457, 1484, 1500 

1251, 1265. 1442.1401. 1400,1551, 1505. 1600 

1254, 1277, 1278, 1296, 1297, 1337, 1342. 1344. 1346. 1351, 1404, 
1524.1543.1556, 1608,1614,1023. 1631, 1634.1655. 1660. 
1667. 1670, 1679. 1703, 1727. 1738. 

1205, 1324. 1332, 1335, 1352, 1379, 1383. 1392. 1439, 1470, 1501, 
1513,1544,1545,1565,1587.1604. 1733,. 1737, 1742. 1755. 
1774. 

1415, 1076 

1255. 1256. 1281, 1286. 1303, .1300. 1326. 1362. 1387,1412,1454, 
1528. 1530. 1560. 1562. 1508, 1632. 1706. 

1575. 1652 

1 356. 1 382. 1301. 1684, 1710, 1769 

1252, 1207, 1270. 1204, 1306, 1310, 1329. 1341. 1345. 1361, 1470, 
1477,1505. 1522. 1520, 1534.1566. 1578,1593, 1599,1639. 
1680.1605,1713,1766. 



2 
18 

2 
6 

25 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



45 



Index to list of specimens sent for examination ami report, arranged geographically— Con- 
tinued. 



Source 



No. of Id . 



Total. 



Rhode Island 17:! 1 

South Carolina 1266, 1J7">, 1334, 1364, 1365, 1490, 1538, 1581, 1607, 1610, 1611 

South Dakota ... 1333, 1410, 1515, 1609, 1629 i 

Tennessee (292, 1327, 1426, 1428, 1469, 1532, 1552, 1572, 1576, 1612, 1627, 

1633, 1668, 10111, 1«:0T. 1723, 1725, 1730, 1736. 
Texas 12 13, 1320, 1336, 1349, 1374, 1388, 1390, 1440, 1452, 1453, 1517, 

1548, 1559, Kin:;. 1630, 1672, 1686, 1696, 1708, 1732. 
Utah 1257, 1389, 1422, 1510. 1580, 1615, 1653, 1656, 1673, 1675, 1678. 

1694, 1744. 

Vermont 1359 

Virginia 1248, 1261, 12S2, 1283, 1287, 1289, 1307, 1322, 1330, L339, 1348, 

1353,1354, 1378,1381, 1393, 1396,1416, 1417, 144::, 1450 

1460, 1476. 1488,1492,1508, 1511. 1520, 1527, 1550, 1605. 

1613, 1660, 1665, 16S5. 1721, 1750, 1764. 177:!. 
Washington 1301, 1308, 1340, 1343, 1357, 1360, 1403, 1410. 1430, 1434,1436, 

1451, 1450,1461. 1509,1570. 1596, 1651,1664, 171s. 1722, 

175:!, 1765. 
West Virginia J 1270,1284,1369, 1380, 1384, 1423, 1482, 1531,1622,1644,1662, 

1750. 1767. 

Wisconsin 1299. 1338, 1395, 1429, 1449, 1554, 1602, 1717,1761 

Wyoming 1438. 1714 

From unknown locality 1646 [ 



West Indies 



J 1316. 



1405. 



South America: 

Peru 

Europe, including — 

Great Britain 1535 

France 1368 

Germany 1489, 1751 . 

Italy 1489. 1594. 

Poland I 1489 

Asia : 

Japan 1712 



FOREIGN EXCHANGES. 



Exchanges of specimens with foreign museums has been continued 
during the year, with results as given below. The "domestic" ex- 
changes are indicated in the "Accession List" (Section v). 

ETHNOLOGY. 

From the British Museum, London, England, have been received 
four throwing- sticks from Australia, for, which ethnological objects have 
been sent in return. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum,* Florence, Italy ( through Prof. 
Henry II. Giglioli, director), has been received a collection of ethno- 

* Other parts of the collection received from this museum are referred t<> under 
Prehistoric Anthropology and Marine Invertebrates. 



46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

logical objects obtained principally from New Guinea, for which an 
equivalent has been sent. A very valuable and interesting collection 
of objects from the Andaman Islands, has been promised by Prof. 
Giglioli. 

The Icelandic Natural History Society (through Mr. B. Grondal, 
president) transmitted articles of clothing forming part of a woman's 
costume, and carved wooden vessels used for food, in return for a col- 
lection of marine invertebrates. 

Casts of Easter Island tablets have been sent to Dr. A. B. Meyer, 
director of the Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnographical 
Museum, Dresden, Germany, for which an equivalent has been prom- 
ised. 

PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Mr. Henry Balfour, The Museum, Oxford, England, has sent several 
flint cores, paleolithic implements, scrapers and hatchets. Five speci- 
mens of candle-fish (Thaleichthys pacificus) have been transmitted to 
Mr. Balfour. 

A collection of archaeological objects from France, Italy, Egypt, Brit- 
ish Honduras, and a few from the Andaman Islands (not forming a 
part of the collection referred to under Ethnology), have been received 
from Prof. Henry Giglioli, director of the Royal Zoological Museum. 
Florence, Italy. 

Mr. Edward Lovett, Croydon, England, transmitted a number of 
paleolithic implements and worked flints from various parts of Eng- 
land, for which an equivalent has been sent. 

Thirty seven objects relating to prehistoric anthropology have been 
received from Dr. Paolo Mantegazza, director of the National Museum 
of Anthropology, Florence, Italy, for which fifty-five similar specimens 
have been returned. 

MAMMALS. 

Prom the British Museum, London, England (through Dr. Henry 
Woodward) were received four teeth of a mammoth, Elephas primi- 

<JC»illX. 

The skin and model of skull of a California sea-lion have been sent 
to Dr. Robert Collett, director of the Zoological Museum, Christiania, 
Norway, in return for specimens already received. 

From the Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales (through 
Dr. Edward P. Ramsey, curator), has been received a very fine collec- 
tion of marsupials, in continuation of an exchange. 

The Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zealand (through Prof. T. F. 
Cheeseinan, director), transmitted birds 1 skeletons in return for a col- 
lection sent by the museum. 

From the .Museum of Natural History, Paris, France (through Dr. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

E. Beauregard), have been received mammal skins, birds' skeletons, 
and an alcoholic specimen of Chimpanzee, in continuation of an ex- 
change. 



A collection of birds' skins has been sent to Mr. H. E. Dresser, Lon- 
don, England, for which an equivalent has been promised. 

From Rev. Henry B. Tristram, The College, Durham, England, have 
been received birds' skins from New Guinea, New Caledonia, New Heb- 
rides, and Fiji Islands, for which similar specimens have been sent. 

Birds' skins have been sent from the Auckland Museum, Auckland, 
New Zealand (through Prof. T. F. Cheeseman), in return for specimens 
already transmitted by the National Museum. 

From the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France (through Dr. E. 
Beauregard), have been received birds' skins from Madagascar, the 
Philippine and adjacent islands, in continuation of an exchange. 

From the Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales (through 
Dr. Edward P. Ramsay, curator), have been received birds' skins, in 
continuation of exchanges. 



Thirty-seven species of deep-sea fishes were sent to the Royal Zoolog- 
ical Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark (Prof. Dr. C. Liitkeu, director), in 
return for specimens already received. 

MOLLUSKS. 

From Mr. C. F. Ancey, Boghari, Algeria, have been received very 
fine specimens of African shells, for which an equivalent will be sent. 

Mr. M. Cossman, Paris, France, transmitted Tertiary fossils from the 
Paris basin, France (the first installment), in return for Claiborne shell- 
marl already transmitted by the National Museum. 

Mr. Hugh Fulton, London, England, transmitted specimens of Vo- 
luta aulica L, from the Indo-Pacific Ocean. Specimens of Turcicula 
Bairdiihstve been sent to Mr. Fulton in return for specimens already 
received. 

Specimens of shell-marl from Claiborne, Ala., have been sent to Mr. 
G. F. Harris, London, England, for which European Miocene fossils 
have beeen promised in return. 

Mr. William Moss, Ashton-under-Lyne, England, has transmitted 
specimens of Bulimus acutus, with microscopic slides; specimens show- 
ing serrated organ and details, and V2 microscopical slides showing 
dentition of British mollnsks, in return for publications sent. 



From Dr. William Eichhoff, Strasbnrg, Germany, have been received 
typical specimens representing species of North American and exotic 



48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Scolytidae, ;ill new to the collection, for which an equivalent has been 
sent. 

Mr. Paul Noel, Rouen, Fiance, has sent specimens of European in- 
sects, for which an equivalant will be transmitted. 

From the Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zealand (through 
Prof. T. F. Cheeseman, director), have been received specimens of in- 
sects in return for specimens already sent. 

MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 

From Prof George S. Brady. Mowbray Villa, Sunderland, England, 
have been received specimens of British fresh water Cyclopida?, in ex- 
change for echinoderms and corals already sent. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy '(through Prof. 
Henry (iiglioli. director), have been received sponges from the banks 
of the Lainpedusa, for which an equivalent has been sent. 

Specimens, representing 22 species of European Paguridce and Pyeno- 
gonida have been transmitted by Rev. A. M. Norman, Durham, Eng- 
land, in return for specimens of Pycnogomda already sent. 

The Otago University Museum, Dunedin, New Zealand (through 
Prof. T. Jeffrey Parker), transmitted specimens of crustaceans, for 
which crinoids and specimens of Nesturus and Amblystoma have been 
sent as an equivalent. 

From the Australian Museum, Sydney. New South Wales (through 
Dr. Edward P. Ramsay, curator), have been received specimens of 
crustaceans and asteroidea; also specimens of echinoderms. Echino- 
derms have been sent in exchange for those received. 

Crustaceans and radiates have been transmitted to the Royal Zoolog- 
ical Museum, Copenhagen (Prof. Dr. C. Liitkeu, director), in return for 
specimens which have been received. 

INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS (PALEOZOIC). 

A collection of graptolites have been received from the Australian 
Museum, Sydney, New South Wales (through Dr. Edward P. Ramsay, 
curator), for which a similar collection will be returned. 

Mr. L. Tornquist, Lund, Sweden, transmitted specimens of grapto- 
lites, in exchange for specimens of similar nature previously sent. 

FOSSIL PLANTS. 

Prof. Dr. A. Nehring. Berlin, Germany, transmitted specimens of 
( 'ratopleura helvetica Nehring, for which an equivalent in seeds has been 
sent. 

From the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Sweden, 
have been received specimens of Siberian Phanerogams, for which an 
equivalent will be sent. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

BOTANY. 

Botanical specimens have been received from the Auckland Museum, 
Auckland, New Zealand (through Prof. T. F. Cheeseman, director), 
for which an equivalent lias been scut. 

MINERALS. 

Prof. A. Streng, G-iessen, Germany, transmitted minerals, for which 
an equivalent will be sent. 

GKOLOGt ■ 

Mr. II. N'. Worth, Plymouth. England, transmitted ores and geologi- 
cal material in exchange for specimens already sent. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The public demand for the publications of the Museum is constantly in- 
creasing, but comparatively few applications can be favorably considered 

on account of the very limited appropriation for printing. Some years 
ago both the Proceedings and Bulletins of the Museum Mere reprinted 
by the Smithsonian Institution in its Miscellaneous Collections. By this 
means it was possible to supply a large number of libraries with these 
publications. The Institution has, however, for several years ceased to 
do this. The entire distribution of these publications now falls upon 
the Museum, and with an edition of only 3,000 copies of the Proceed- 
ings and of the Bulletins, it is evident that a large number of deserving 
libraries must be excluded from the mailing-list, as well as many stu- 
dents to whom these volumes would be of great assistance, 

REPORTS <>F THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

During the year the Report for 1889 was distributed. This volume 
contains the following papers: 

1. The museums of the future. By G. Brown Goode. 

2. Te Pito Te Henna, or Easter Island. By William J. Thomson, paymaster, 
U. S. Navy. 

3. Aboriginal skin dressing ; a study based on material in the 1". S. National 
Museum. By Otis T. Mason. 

4. The puma, or American lion (Felis concolqr <>f Linnaeus). Bj Frederick W. 
True. 

">. Animals recently extinct, or threatened with extermination, as represented in 
the collection of the U. s. National Museum. By Frederic A. Lucas. 

6. The development of the American rail and track, as illustrated by the collection 
in the U. S. National Museum. By J. Elfreth Watkins. 

7. Explorations in Newfoundland and Labrador in 1887, made in connection with 
the cruise of the U. S. Fish Commission Schooner Grampus. By Frederic A. Lucas. 

8. (>n a bronze Buddha in the Q. S. National Museum (repriut). By Charles De 
Kay. 

The manuscript of the reports for 1890 and 1891 has been transmitted 
to the Public Printer. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 4 



50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

PltOCEKDIXGS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Volume xiii (1890) of the Proceedings, embracing separates 790 to 
841, was issued during the year. This volume contains 605 pages, with 
38 plates and 11 text-figures. A list of the titles of the separate 
papers is given on pp. 01, 62 of the Report for 1891. A table contain- 
ing an enumeration of the papers by subjects is given on p. 63 of tha'i 
Report. 

All the papers constituting Volume xiv of the Proceedings and 
embracing numbers 842-886, inclusive, have been published separately 
during the year. A list of these papers is here given by title: 

No.842. Catalogue of the fresh-water fishes of South America. By Carl H. Eigen- 
inann and Rosa S. Eigenniann. Pp. 1-81. 

No. si:;. Fishes collected by William !'. Seal in Chesapeake Bay at Cape Charles 
City, \ a.. September 16 to October 3, 1890. By Barton A. Bean. Pp. 
83-94. 

No. 814. List of North American lam. and fresh-water shells received from the U.S. 
Departmeul of Agriculture, with notes and comments thereon. By Rob- 
ert E. C. Steams. Pp. 96-106. 

No. 845. Relations of temperature to vertebra; among fishes. By David Starr Jordan. 
Pp. 107-120. 

No.846. Report upon a collection of fishes made ai Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, with 
descriptions of new species. By Barton W. Evermann and Oliver P. 
Jenkins. Pp. 121-165. 

No. 847. Description of a new genus and species of tailless batrachian, from tropical 
America. By Leonhard Stejneger and Frederick C. Test. Pp. 167, 168. 

No.848. On the structure of the tongue in humming birds. By Frederic A. Lucas. 
Pp. 169-172. 

No. 849. < >n some new or interesting West American shells, obtained from the dredg- 
ings of the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatrovs in 1888. and from 
other sources. By William H. Dall. Pp. 173-191. 

No. 850. Descriptions of two supposed species of mice from Costa Rica and Mexico, 
with remarks on Uespvromys melanophrys of Coues. By .I.A.Allen. Pp. 
193-195. 

No. 851. Contributions toward a monograph of the Noctuidce of temperate North 
America. Revision of Maiwstra. By John B. Smith. Pp. 197-276. 

No.852. Report upon the Annelida polychonta of Beaufort, X. C. By E. A. Andrews. 
Pp. 277-302. 

No. 85:-!. On Eleginu8 of Fischer, otherwise called Tiles ia or Pleurogadua. By Theo- 
dore A. Gill, m. i)., ph. d. Pp. 303-305. 

No. 854. List of shells collected on the west coast of South America, principally be- 
tween latitudes 7° 30' S. and 80 !9 N., by I>r. W. H. Jones, surgeon, 
II. S. Navy. By Robert E. 0. Stearns. Pp. 307-335. 

No. 85."). Description of new genera, species, and subspecies of birds from Costa 
Rica. By George K. Cherrie, Pp. 337-346. 

No. 856. Description of apodal fishes from the tropical Pacific. By Charles H. Gil- 
bert, Pp. 347-352. 

No. 857. Description of a new species of chameleon from Kilima-Njaro, eastern 
Africa. By Leonhard Stejneger. P. 353. 

Np.858, The genus Panopeus. By James E. Benedict and Mary J. Rathbun. Pp. 
355-385. 

No. 859. Some observations on the Havesu-Pai Indians. By R. W. Shufeldt. Pp. 
387-390. 

No, 860. The Navajo belt-weaver. By R. W, Shufeldt. Pp. 391-393. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51 

No. 86E Onthegenera Labnchthys and Pneudolairus. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 395-404. 
No.862. Description of a new scincoid lizard from East Africa. I'.y Leonhard 

Stejneger. 1*. 105. 
No.863. Description of a new species of lizard, from the Island San I'c<lr<> Martir, 

Gulf of California. By Leonhard Stejneger. P.407. 
No. 864. Description of a new North American lizard of the genus Sauromalus. By 

Leonhard Stejneger. Pp. 109-411. 
No. 865. Notes on and a list of birds and eggs collected in Antic America. 1861-1860. 

I'.y R. MacFarlane. Pp. 413-446. 
No. 866. On the characters of some paleozoic fishes. By E. D. Cope. Pp. 447-463. 
No. 807. Description of a new species of whip-poor-will from Costa Rica. By Rober! 

Ridgway. Pp. 465, 466. 
No.868. Notes on some birds from the interior of Honduras. By Robert Ridgway. 

Pp. 467-471. 
No.869. Notes on some Costa Rican birds. By Robert Ridgway. Pp. 473-478. 
No. 870. Note on Pachyrliampus albinucha Burmeister. By Roberl Ridgway. Pp. 

479, 480. 
No. 871. Description of two supposed new forms of Thamnophilus. By Robert Ridg- 
way. P. 481. 
No. 872. Description of a new sharp-tailed sparrow from California. By Robert 

Ridgway. Pp. 483, 484. 
No. 873. Notes on Sceloporus variabilis and its geographical distribution in the United 

States. By Leonhard Stejneger. Pp. 485-488. 
No. 874. Notes on the .Japanese birds contained in the Science College. Imperial 

University, Tokyo, Japan. By Leonhard stejneger. Pp. 489-498. 
No. 875. Notes on the cubital coverts in the birds of paradise and bower birds. By 

Leonhard Stejneger. Pp.499, 500. 
No. 876. Notes on some North American snakes. By Leonhard Stejneger. Pp. 501-505. 
No. 877. Note on the genus Sittasomus of Swainson. By Robert Ridgway. Pp.507- 

510. 
No. 878. On the snakes of the Californian genus Lichanura. By Leonhard Stejneger- 

Pp. 511-515. 
No. 879. Notes on Costa Rican birds. By George K.Cherrie. Pp. 517-537. 
No.880. Scientific results of explorations by the U. S. Fish Commission Steamer 

A Ibatross. No. xxn. Descriptions of thirty -four new species of fishes col 

lected in 1888 and 1889, principally among the Santa Barbara Islands 

and in the Gulf of California. By Charles H. Gilbert. Pp. 539-566. 
No. 881. The biology of the hymenopterous insects of the family Chaleididm. By 

L. O. Howard. Pp. 567-588. 
No. 882. A critical review of the characters and variations of the snakes of North 

America. By E. D. Cope. Pp. 589-694. 
No.883. Note on the genus Hiatula of Lacepede or Tautoga of Mitchill. By Theo- 
dore Gill. P. 695. 
No. ssl. Note on the genus Chonerhinus or Xenopterw. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 097- 

699. 
No.885. On the genus Gnathanacanthus of Bleeker. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 701-704. 
No. 886. Notes on the Tetraodontoidea. By Theodore Gill. Pp. 705-720. 

Of Volume xv the following papers were issued separately during 
tlic year: 

No.887. Preliminary descriptions of thirty-86ven new species ofhermil crabs of the 
genus En pag urns in the U. S. National Museum. By James 15. Benedict. 
Pp. 1-26. 

No. 888. Description of two apparently new flycatchers from Costa Rica. By Georgia 
K. Cherrie. Pp. 27, 28 



52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

BULLETIN OK THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Of the Bulletin, Parts A to E of No. 3i> have been issued. This Bulle- 
tin is published in separate pamphlets, each one containing- instruc- 
tions to collectors in some special department of natural history. The 
manuscripts of Parts F (Directions for Collecting and Preserving In- 
sects) and (J (Instructions for Collecting Mollusks, and other Useful 
Hints for the < Vmcbologist) have been transmitted to the Public Printer. 
It is hoped that this series of instructions to collectors will prove of 
service to naturalists and others engaged in making natural history 
collections, rt is probable that before very long additional contribu- 
tions to this series will be made, containing suggestions to collectors in 
other blanches of natural history. 

In addition, No. 41. Bibliography of Dr. Charles Girard, and No. 42, 
A Preliminary Descriptive Catalogue of the Systematic Collections in 
Economic ( leology and Metallurgy in the National Museum, by Mr. F. P. 
Dewey, have been published. The manuscript of Bulletin No. 40, Bib- 
liography of George X. Lawrence, by Dr. G. Brown Goode, has been 
temporarily withdrawn. 

In order to meet special requirements in connection with the descrip- 
tion of certain valuable collections in the National Museum, it has been 
decided to issue, from time to time, monographsof collections in quarto 
form. This series of publications will be known as the " Special Bulle- 
tin." During the year, No. 1 of this series, entitled "Life Histories of 
North American Birds," has been issued. This book has been prepared 
by Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, honorary curator of the department 
of birds' eggs in the U. S. National Museum. It is based largely upon 
the collections in the .Museum. The preparation of this book was com- 
menced in accordance with the wishes of Professor Baird. The present 
volume relates only to land birds. It is hoped that before long Capt. 
Bendire will be enabled to prepare for publication subsequent vol- 
umes relating to the same general subject. 

A large number of papers upon scientific subjects has been published 
by officers of the Museum and other specialists. These are, for the 
most part, based on collections in the museum, and are referred to by 
title in the Bibliography, constituting Section IV of this report. The 
authors of these papers are seventy five in number, thirty-two of whom 
are connected with the Smithsonian Institution or the National Museum. 
The papers referred to in the Bibliography number 238, and relate to 
the following subjects: 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



53 



Subject. 



Administration 

Biography 

Birds 

Ethnology 

Exploration 

Fishes 

Fossils 

Geology 

Graphic arts 

History 

Mammals 

Marine invertebrates 

Minerals 

Mollusks 

Oriental antiquities 

Prehistoric anthropology - 

Recent plants 

Reptiles and batraehiaus. 

Transportation 

Miscellaneous 



Total 



By offi- 
cers of 

the Mu- 
seum. 

3 

1 
6 


By investi- 
gators IH>t 
officially 
connect! il 
with the 
\l useuni. 








18 


9 

:; 








1 


18 




6 


17 




1 

2 


•j 
^> 
4 
4 










10 


30 
15 








1 


1 

9 
12 












27 


15 




4 


8 

7 








2 



166 



VISITORS. 

During the year the total number of visitors to the Museum building 
was 269,825, and to the Smithsonian Institution, 114,817. 
The monthly register of visitors is as follows: 



Year and month. 



1891: 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

1892: 

January 

February 

March 

April 

Max 

June 

Total 

Approximate daily a\ eragc mi a basis of 313 days in 1 1n- 3 eai 



National 
Museum 
building, 



Smith- 
sonian 
building 



. 825 
862 



8. 350 
9 856 

9, 552 
9,331 
7,038 
9,089 

7 185 

in. 7: IS 
9, 706 
10,716 
16, 215 
7, 130 



114, S17 
367 



54 



REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Since 1881 a careful record of visitors to the Museum and Smith- 
sonian buildings has been kept. The results up to June 30, 1892, are 
here presented : 



Year. 



1883 

1882 

1883 

1884 

1885 (January-June). 

1885-'86 

188C-'87 

1887-'88 

39 

L889 '90 

L890 '91 

1891-'92 

Total 



M iisi'iuii 
building. 


Smithson- 
ian build- 
ing. 


Total t<> 
both build- 
ings. 


150.000 




L50 noil 


107.455 


152,744 


320, 199 


202, ls.s 


104. 823 


307,011 


195,322 


91, 130 


286. 452 


107,365 


Sill. 428 


107, 793 


174.22r, 


88, 960 


263. 185 


216,562 


98, 552 


315.114 


249, 665 


102,863 


352,528 


374, 843 


L49,618 


524. 461 


274,324 


120, 804 


395. 218 


286, 420 


111.609 


398, 095 


269. 825 


114.817 


384, 642 


2, 608, 200 


1, l'.'li. 498 


3, 804. 608 



•ivil war. By Mr. Gilbert 



By Mr. (i. K. Gil- 



LECTURES AND MEETINGS OF SOCIETIES. 

As in previous years, the use of the lecture hall has been granted for 
lectures and meetings of societies. Lectures have been held uuder 
the auspices of the National Geographic Society as follows: 

December SO, 1891. — Peary and the West Greenland expedition. By Dr. Benjamin 
Sharp. 

February 26, 1892. — Military surveying during tli 
Thompson and Maj.Joel Hotchkiss. 

March 18. — (don Mountain. Arizona, and the Diablo meteorites, 
bert. 

March 25. — Greece and Palestine. My Mr. W. A.Croffut. 

April I. — The cruise of the Albatross through the straits of Magellan. By Prof. 
Leslie A. Lee. 

April 8. — A trip through Bolivia. By Lieut. C. H. Harlow, U. S. Navy. 

April 15.— The Cliff Dwellers. By Mr. W. H. Holmes. 

April 22. — The Challenger Expedition, with some of its scientific results. By 
Prof. John Murray. 

May 13. — The gates and straits of Europe and Africa. By Mr. Talcott Williams. 

The following meetings of associations and scientific societies have 
been held: The American Pomological Association, September 23; the 
American Historical Association (eighth annual meeting), December 30; 
the American Forestry Association, December 30; the American Geo- 
graphical Association, December 30; the National Association of Dairy 
and Food Commissioners, March 30 and 31 5 the National Academy of 
Sciences, April 19-22. 

At the meeting of the National Academy of Sciences the following 
papers were presented: 

An American Maar. (i. K.Gilbert. 

The form and efficiency of the iced bar base apparatus of the IT. S. Coast and 
Geodetic Survey. R.S.Woodward. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 

On Atmospheric Radiation of Heat in Meteorology. C. Abbe. 

On the Deflecting Forces that Product' the Diurnal Variation of the Normal Ter- 
restrial Magnetic Field. F. H. Bigelow. 

Abstract of Results from the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Magnetic Observa- 
tory at Los Angeles, Cal., 1882-1889, Pari III. Differential Measures of the Hori- 
zontal Component of the Magnetic Force. C. A. Schott. 

On the Anatomy and Systematic Position of the Mecoptera. A. S. Packard. 

On the Laws of the Variation of Latitude. S. C. Chandler. 

On the Causes of Variations of Period in the Variable Stars. S. ('. Chandler. 

On the Force of Gravity at Washington. T. C. Mendenhall. 

On the Recent Variations of Latitude at Washington. T. C. Mendenhall. 

On the Acoustic Properties of Aluminum, with experimental illustrations. A.M. 
Mayer. 

Disruption of the Silver Haloid Molecule by Mechanical Force. M. Carey Lea. 

On the Homologies of the ( Iranial Arches of the Reptilia. E. D. Cope. 

On the Osteology of the genus Anniella. E. D. Cope. 

The Astronomical, Geodetic and Electrical Consequences of Tidal Strains within 
an Elastic Terrestrial Spheroid. C. Abbe. 

Asiatic Influences in Europe. E. S. Morse. 

Exhibition of Chladni's Acoustic Figures transferred to paper without distor- 
tion. A.M.Mayer. 

On Electrical Discharges through poor vacua, and on Coronoidal Discharges. 
M. I. Pupin. 

Biographical Memoir of William Ferrel. C. Abbe. 

A definition of Institutions. J. W. Powell. 

Several other societies held their annual meeting in Washington. 
Among them may be mentioned the National Art Association, May 10- 
30; American Microscopical Society, August 11,12; Association of 
American Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, August 12- 
15; Association of Official Agricultural Chemists. August 13,15; So- 
ciety for the Promotion of Agricultural Sciences. August 1 7. 18; Wash- 
ington Chemical Society, August 17, 18; Geological Society of America. 
August 23,24; International Congress of Geologists, August 25-Sep- 
tember 1; American Association for the Advancement of Science, Au- 
gust 17-September 2. 

STUDENTS. 

During the past year, as heretofore, the National Museum has con- 
tinued to aid students and others engaged in scientific work by lend- 
ing them material to be used in connection with their researches. 
Among the more important loans made during the year are the follow- 
ing : A specimen of Maia to Mr. J. E. Ives, of the Philadelphia Academy 
of Natural Sciences. Pieces of Gorgonians and sponges for micro- 
scopic work to Mr. G. R. Lunisden, Greeneville, Conn. ( Jrayfisb.es, from 
Lake Chapala, Mexico, to Prof. Walter Faxon, Museum of Comparative 
Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. An example of Dendroica pityophila to 
Mr. C. P>. Cory, Boston, Mass. Central American birds to Mr. Osbert 
Salvin, London. England. Turtles to Dr. G. Baur, Clark University, 
Worcester, Mass. Anatomical specimens to Prof. It. Wiedersheim. 
Freiburg, Germany. Anatomical specimens to Mr. W. B. Barrows, 



. r >() REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

Department of Agriculture, Washington. Skins and skulls of Gapromys 
to Dr. J. A. Allen, New York City. Skeletons of Fruit Bats to Dr. 
Harrison Allen. Philadelphia, Pa. A scries of California Hemiptera- 
keteroptera to Prof. A. L. Montandon, Bucharest, Roumania. A fossil 
plant, Zamiostrobus miraMUs, to Prof. 11. Graf zu Solms-Laubach, 
University of Strasburg, Germany. Material h;is also been furnished 
to the Bering Sea Commission, in connection with its investigations 
concerning the fur-seal. 

During the session of the International Congress, in August, many 
of the leading paleontologists and geologists of Europe examined the 
collections of the Museum. Dr. O. P. Hay, of Irvington, Ind., spent 
some time studying the Indiana reptiles and batrachians.' Prof. R. L. 
Packard availed himself of the opportunities offered for study in the 
department of geology during a portion of the year, and has rendered 
valuable service in determinative and analytical work. Dr. G. Baur, 
of Clark University, Worcester, Mass.. has examined the collection of 
Chelonians. 

FINANCE, PROPERTY, SUPPLIES. AND ACCOUNTS. 

The statements relating to these branches of the administrative work 
have been prepared by Mr. W. Y. Cox, chief clerk. 

The appropriations made by Congress in behalf of the U. S. National 
Museum for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1802, are as follows: 

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the col- 
lections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern- 
ment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of all 
necessary employes, $115,000. 

For eases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhibi- 
tion and safe keeping of the collections of the ^National Museum, in- 
cluding salaries or compensation of all necessary employes, $25,000. 

For the expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and tel- 
ephonic service for the National Museum, $12,000. 

For removing the old boilers under the Museum hall in the Smith- 
sonian building, and replacing them with new ones, and for necessary 
alterations and connections of steam-heating apparatus, and for cover- 
ing pipes with fire-proof material, $3,000. 

For removing decayed wooden floors in the Museum building, substi- 
tuting granolithic or artificial stone therefor, and for slate for covering 
trenches containing heating and electrical apparatus, including all 
necessary material and labor, to be immediately available, $5,000. 

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and blanks, and 
for the bulletins and annual volumes of the proceedings of the National 
.Museum, $15,000. 

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Mu- 
seum. $500. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57 



PRESERVATION OK COLI.KCTIONK. 



At the time of submitting the report for 1891 from this office, the 
unexpended balance of the appropriation for the preservation of col 
lections held to meet liabilities contracted during the fiscal year end- 
ing June :>(>, 1891, was $7,979.99. Since then bills have been vouchered 
and paid as follows : $489.93 have been expended for services; $1,079.37 
for supplies; $1,191.51 for specimens; $768*.15 for books; $420.46 for 
stationery; $273.04 for travel; $465.95 for freight, making a total of 
$7,688.11. and leaving an unexpended balance July, 1892, of $291. 5S, 
to settle an account of Elkington & Company, London, and to meet a 
few other small bills still outstanding. 

From the appropriation of $115,000 for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1892, the disbursements are as follows: 

For salaries or compensation, $119,911.79; for special or contract 
services, $2,839.64; for specimens, $6,310.12; for general supplies, 
$2,038.76; for freight and cartage, $2,180.95; for travel, $1,571.81; for 
stationery, $812.79 ; for books and periodicals, $153 ; a total of $136,181.86, 
which leaves an unexpended balance of $8,818.11, duly 1, 1892, to meet 
outstanding liabilities. 

FURNITURE AND FIXTURES. 

The unexpended balance of the appropriation for furniture and fix- 
tures for 1891, held to meet liabilities contracted during that fiscal 
year, was $3,690.54. The following bills have been vouchered and paid 
from this balance: One thousand one hundred and eighteen dollars for 
exhibition cases; $13.50 for drawers, trays, etc.; $397.91 for glass; 
$210.77 for hardware, tools, cloth, etc.; $723.76 for glass jars and con- 
tainers for specimens; $737.65 for lumber; $52.77 for paints, oils, and 
brushes; *316.70 for office furniture; $12.10 for tin, lead, etc. ; $11.88 
for rubber goods; $2.85 for traveling expenses, making a total of 
$3,688.19, and leaving an unexpended balance July 1, 1892, ot $2.35. 

From the appropriation of $25,000 for furniture and fixtures for the 
fiscal year ending June 30, 1892, the disbursements are as follows: 

For salaries or compensation, $13,885. si ; for special or contract serv- 
ices, $87.96; for exhibition cases, with designs and drawings for same, 
$365; for drawers, trays, and boxes, $513.72; for frames, stands, and 
miscellaneous woodwork, $l(i!>.50; for lumber, paints, oils, glue, and 
brushes, $2,159.91; for tools, glass, hardware, and interior fittings 
for cases, $1,107.31; for apparatus, glass jars, vials, etc, $1,191.97; for 
office and hall furniture and other fixtures, $765; for plumbing, tin 
and lead. $999.14; for leather belting, rubber tubing for rendering cases 
moth proof, etc., $122.28; for traveling expenses, $2, making a total of 
$21,699.63, and leaving a balance of $3,300.37 on hand July 1, 1892, to 
meet outstanding liabilities. 



58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The following is a detailed list of cases, unit tables, fixtures, etc., 
made or furnished during the year by persons outside of the Museum: 

Two mahogany double- width cases (for lay figures), $350; 2 mahogany unit table 
cases, .$224; 12 mahogany wall cases, $840; 5 mahogany Kensington cases. Gray pat- 
tern. $390; 75 pairs mahogany wing frames, $166.50; 200 mahogany case heading 
frames, $00; 2 insert cabinets, $300; 200 insect boxes, $220; 1 oak desk, $162; 1 oak 
desk, $145; 1 oak table, $95; 1 small oak desk, $32; 12 pine, half-unit, moth-proof 
cases, $324; 1 drawing table, $12.50; 1 revolving office chair, $5: 1 umbrella stand. 
$4.75. 

The following is a list of cases, tables, bases, etc., built in the Museum 
workshops: 

Three mahogany American cases; 2 mahogany table-cases, upright; 7 walnut table- 
cases, double width ; 7"> moth-proof tables, quarter size ; 14 unit tables, half size; 1 

pine bookcase, in three sections; 2 pine bookcases, single; 7 pine storage cases, large 
size; 2 pine unit cases, for poisoning specimens ; 1 ash case, special ; 1 walnut cata- 
logue-case; 1 pine case for press-copy books. 

Cases and tables repaired or remodeled: 

One floor case; 2 small Kensington cases; 1 Liverpool case; 1 unit table; 2 unit 
tables changed into half unit; 2 unit tables, half size, rendered moth proof; 2 unit 
tables, quarter Bize, rendered moth proof; wall cases on east and west sides of north 
hall; 2 pier cases; 14 slide-screen cases; 2 slide-screen cases for costume boxes; 6 
floor cases; 1 cherry case for bird group ; 1 Kensington case; 2 unit tables, half size; 
x bird case, old style ; 1 standard bookcase; 2 catalogue cases ; 6 unit tables; 2 unit 
tables, quarter size; 10 table cases; 2 wall cases; 1 storage cases ; 13 cases glazed; 
884 cases painted and repolished. 

Miscellaneous furniture, fittings, etc., made during the year: 

Fifty-two tank boxes; 17 tin boxes tor collecting specimens; 00 tin cans for ship- 
ping specimens ; 721 packing and storage boxes; 710 blocks tor the exhibition of 
specimens; 600 special Mocks, index, etc.; 169 liases; 500 brass label holders; 4,000 
tin tags; 200 oak tags; 12 copper tanks; 2 lead-lined tanks; 91 label frames; 33 
picture frames; 107 unit drawers; 132 unit drawers, half size ; 1,049 unit drawers, 
quartersize; 330 drawers for table cases ; 2.") drawers for storage, etc.: 381 shelves; 
lit doors. 

Miscellaneous furniture, fittings, etc., repaired and altered dining the 
year: 

Twenty-seven unit boxes repaired; X unit boxes, double size, altered; !t costume 
boxes altered; 25 tank boxes repaired : Ob tin cans tor shipping specimens repaired; 
18packingand storage boxes repaired and altered; 1,440 blocks shellacked and 
polished: 289 bases repaired, painted, and polished; 52 copper tanks repaired ; 644 
miscellaneous frames hinged, painted, and glazed; 71 unit drawers repaired ; 1,583 
drawers litted; 246 shelves repaired and painted; 21 doors altered: 999 doors re- 
paired, eased, and adjusted. 

HEATING AND LIGHTING. 

The unexpended balance of the appropriation for heating and light- 
ing and electric and telephonic service tor 1891, held to meet unpaid 
liabilities for that year, was $842.34. Bills have been vouchered and 
paid from this ha lance as follows: *4<;.L'<) for coal and wood; $74.75 for 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59 

gas; $200.25 for telephones; $384.95 for electric supplies; $32.75 for 
electric work; $20 for rental of call boxes; $81.79 for heating supplies, 
making a total of $840.69, and leaving an unexpended balance July 1, 
1892, of $1.65. 

Prom the appropriation of $12,000 for heating and lighting for the 
fiscal year ending June 30, L892, the disbursements are as follows: 

For salaries or compensation, $5,218.93; for special or contract serv- 
ices, $20; for coal and wood, $3,365.85; gas, $1,360.51; telephones, 
$622.65; electric work and supplies, $124.53 ; rental of call boxes, $100; 
heating repairs. $329; heating supplies, $433.62; making a total of 
$11,575.09, and leaving an unexpended balance July 1, 1892, of $424.91, 
to meet outstanding liabilities. 

From the appropriation of $5,000 for removing decayed wooden floors 
in the Museum building, and replacing them with artificial stone pave- 
ment, and for the purchase of slate for covering trenches containing 
heating and electrical apparatus, the expenditures for materials and 
services to July 1, L892, are $4,474.64, leaving on that date an unex- 
pended balance of $525.30 on hand to meet outstanding liabilities. 

With a view to securing the best pavement possible, as well as for 
the purpose of obtaining for future guidance a practical knowledge of 
the merits of the artificial stone flooring made by different bidders, three 
proposals, which did not vary materially in amount, were accepted. It 
will require a greater length of time than has yet elapsed to pronounce 
upon the relative merits of these pavements, but they have already 
proved themselves far more satisfactory than the wooden floors for 
which they were substituted, and it is hoped that it will soon be possi- 
ble to put down the same or some equally durable form of pavement in 
other parts of the Museum. 

From the appropriation of $3,000 for removing the old boilers under 
the Museum hall in the Smithsonian building, and replacing them with 
new ones, making necessary alterations and connections of steam-heat- 
ing apparatus, and covering pipes with fire-proof material, the expen- 
ditures are as follows: Alteration of pipes, etc., $121; purchase of two 
new boilers, $2,769; black pipe, etc., $48.47; making a total expendi- 
ture of $2,9.38.47, and leaving ou hand July 1, 1892, an unexpended 
balance of $61.53 to meet liabilities still outstanding. 

The Museum is under obligation to Commodore Melville, U. S. Navy, 
Chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering, Navy Department, who, in 
July, 1801, at the request of the Acting Secretary, appointed a board 
of engineer officers to prepare specifications and examine bids for the 
new steam-heating apparatus. The Museum was thus enabled to profit 
by the skill and experience of Passed Assistant Engineer Baird and 
Assistant Engineer Leopold, the officers designated to serve on this 
board. The practical working of the steam-heating apparatus has 
since demonstrated the wisdom of the board in the preparation of the 
test questions and specifications submitted to the bidders, and of the 



(JO REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Museum in its final approval of the proposal of the firm to which the 
work of putting in the new heating apparatus was intrusted. 

In addition to the work mentioned in the detailed list, much has been 
accomplished in the way of general repairs. The carpenter's shop has 
been extended to make room for two lathes: the storage shed south of 
the Smithsonian building has been enlarged and the roof tinned; the 
old paint shop has been reconstructed for use by the special employes 
detailed for service in connection with the World's Columbian Expo- 
sition; steam pipes have been furnished with casing: the old and worn- 
out fixtures connected with the plumbing of the Smithsonian building- 
have been removed and replaced with new; much necessary repairing 
has been done to the roofs of both buildings; skylights have been re- 
paired, painted, and glazed; windows have been glazed, painted, and 
furnished with weather strips; the walls in both buildings have been, 
to a considerable extent, painted and calcimined, and necessary repairs 
in general have been made within the means available for this purpose. 

By the laying of the asphalt walk on the west side of the Museum, 
and the consequent raising of the grade in that locality, it was found 
that the surface water, being turned toward the wall of the building 
and having no way of escape, frequently collected there to the depth 
of several inches. Permission was accordingly asked of Col. Ernst, U. S. 
Army, the Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, to pro 
vide for the drainage of this area by the laying of a small sewer to be 
connected with the large one from the Smithsonian building. The re- 
quired permit having been issued, the work was done by the Museum 
force, with materials already available for this purpose. 

The buffaloes were removed from the shed south of the Smithsonian 
building to their new quarters in the Zoological Park on the L'Oth of 
July, 1801. The building thus vacated was immediately renovated 
and remodeled for the use of the painters. 

The number of requests for the use of the lecture hall by the scien- 
tific societies of Washington and the country has not varied materi- 
ally, the average being about two a month. In some parts of the year, 
however, the hall is required in this way much more frequently, so 
that its proper preparation as a room of public assembly becomes an 
item of considerable importance in connection with the work of the 
Museum force. The Geographic Society used the room for lectures on 
five different dates in April, 1892, and in this month, as usual, the 
annual session of the National Academy was held here for four days, 
April 19 to 22. At the time of the annual sessions of the various 
scientific associations of the country, which arc often held in the hall 
of the Museum, it generally becomes necessary, as in the case of the 
Academy, to prepare and set apart some of the smaller rooms of the 
building also for the meetings of the committees, a courtesy which is 
always cheerfully accorded. In addition to these meetings, held in 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 61 

the lecture hall of the Museum, the National Art Association was 
giveu permission to use the room in the Smithsonian building, known 
as the chapel, for an art exhibition during the two weeks beginning 
May 16, L892. 

Tt should also be mentioned that various scientific and educational 
associations avail themselves more and more frequently of the privilege 
of using the oxyhydrogeo lantern belonging to the Museum, for the 
purpose of illustrating their lectures, winch, if not given in the lecture 
hall, are. as a rule, held at the Columbian University or the Cosmos 
( !lub. The lantern is always used under the direction of a skilled oper- 
rator connected with the Museum, and, except on occasions for which 
the use of the lecture hall lias been granted by the Eegents of thelusti 
tution for the Washington meetings of national scientific and edu- 
cational societies, the expenses incurred for gas, etc., are paid by the 
society under the direction of which the lecture is given. Among the 
bodies which have availed themselves of the use of the lantern during 
this year are the Association of Agricultural Colleges, the Association 
of Agricultural Chemists, the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science, the Geological Society of America, the International 
Geological Congress, the Philosophical Society, the Biological Society, 
the American Folk-Lore Society, the Cosmos Club, and the Corcoran 
School of Art. 

In compliance with the request of the Department of State, and in 
accordance with the act of Congress making an appropriation for the 
purpose, preparations were begun in June, 1802, for an exhibit by the 
National Museum at the Columbian Historical Exposition, to be held 
in Madrid, iu commemoration of the four hundredth anniversary of the 
discovery of America. 

Preparations for the exhibit of the Museum at the World's Columbian 
Exposition, commenced last year, have been prosecuted vigorously. 
As the act of Congress making the appropriation for this exhibit pro- 
vides for no clerical service, the work of this nature required for the 
Exposition has been performed by the Museum force, often, of course, at 
the expense of service beyond the regular departmental hours. While 
the necessity for extra work is always cheerfully complied with, it is 
but proper to put on record the fact that there exists a gradually in- 
creasing need for a permanent addition to the clerical force. 

CORRESPONDENCE AND REPORTS. 

The work of this office continues under the direction of Mr. E. I. 
Geare. The force of assistants in July, 1891, consisted of 2 stenograph- 
ers, 2 typewriters, 2 iudexers, 1 accession clerk, 1 copyist, and 1 mes- 
senger. During the year the work increased considerably, and before 
the close of the year it had been found necessary to obtain the services 



62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

of an additional clerk. In May, 1892, the distribution of Museum pub- 
lications was added to the work of the office, and in the months of May 
and June there were partially distributed Dr. W. L. Abbott's Catalogue 
of Ethnological Collections in the IT. S. National Museum from Kili- 
manjaro, East Africa (published in the Eeport of the National Museum 
for 1891), and a paper by Dr. G. Brown Goode, entitled Museums of the 
Future (published in the Eeport of the National Museum for 1890). 
During the year the routine work connected with the distribution of 
specimens has also been attended to in this office. The correspondence 
of the Museum (including the acknowledgment of gifts, loans, and ex- 
changes, the preparation of reports upon material sent for examination, 
and replies to requests for technical information of all kinds), and the 
preparation, editing, and proof-reading of the Annual Eeport of the 
Museum, constitute the principal work of the office. 

The routine work performed in the case of each letter received is as 
follows: The date of its receipt at the Museum is stamped upon it, after 
which the proper reference is indorsed upon it.* It is then charged to 
the person to whom it is referred, and inclosed in a wrapper, on which 
is written the name and address of the writer, the subject of the inquiry? 
and the name of the person to whom it is referred. On its return from 
the referee a reply is prepared, which, with the original letter, is trans- 
mitted to the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, or Curator-in-charge, for 
signature. It is then detached, marked for riling, and a label is attached 
giving the name and address of the writer, the subject, and date of 
letter. The letters written are copied in the current number of the 
appropriate series of letter books. All letters written are indexed in 
the letter-books, and also on cards prepared for the purpose. These 
cards are filed alphabetically, and thus, at a glance, the amount of cor- 
respondence with any person, including the date of each letter, can be 
ascertained. A cross-reference is also prepared under every name 
mentioned in each letter written, and filed alphabetically. By this 
means a clew is ofteu furnished to correspondence which it would other- 
wise be difficult to find. 

A record is kept, in card-catalogue form, of all offers of specimens 
which are not at the time accepted, whether offered as gifts, loans, in 
exchange, or for sale. The possibility of bringing together in a mo- 
ment all offers relating to material in a given department of the Museum, 
has frequently proved very useful, and has saved many hours' work in 
examining' the letter-hies. 



*A large proportion of the letters does not require reference, in which case the 
intermediate steps of the routine are omitted. 



KEPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63 

PREPARATION OF LABELS. 

During the year. L,986 forms of labels were printed, as shown by the 
following table, '2± copies of each form being printed: 



1 ». ■ i . i rtment. 



Ethnology 

Minerals 

Geology 

Transportation and engineering 
Naval architecture 

Total 



Number of 
forms. 



1,578 

229 

116 

32 

31 



1, 9S6 



BUILDINGS AND LABOR — POLICE AND PUBLIC COMFORT. 

The report submitted by Mr. Henry Horan, superintendent of build- 
ings, shows that the force of laborers and mechanics has been busily 
employed under his supervision, assisted by Mr. Charles A. Steuart. 
The following abstracts from his report indicate some of the principal 
items of work the force has accomplished: 

1891. 

July.— The buffaloes were removed from their quarters south of the Smithsonian 
Institution to the Zoological Park, and the shed thus vacated was remodeled for use 
as a paint shop. The .Jackson sarcophagus was removed from the west hall of the 
Museum, and placed on the parking north of the building. 

August. — The animal pens south of the Smithsonian building were removed. The 
Museum was opened to visitors on the evening of the 21st, and also of the 28th, on 
which occasions it was lighted by electricity. 

September. — The American Pomological Association held a fruit exhibition in the 
northeast court from the 18th to the 25th, inclusive. The Japanese house, which 
has been in storage for some months, was set up in the west hall. 

October. — The work of reconstructing the wall-cases on the west side of the north 
hall was completed. The remainder of the living animals were removed to the 
Zoological Park on the 21th. 

Norcmbcr. — The laborers were employed in removing the exhibition cases prepara- 
tory to the work of tearing up the floors in the west-south and north-west ranges, 
for the purpose of laying granolithic pavements. Two heavy slabs of granite and 
sandstone were fastened to the wall in the west-south range. The work of putting 
in place the new boilers for the Smithsonian building was commenced on the 23d. 

December. — The west end of the Smithsonian building was kalsomined and painted. 
The cases were removed from the lecture hall, and the room was prepared for the 
meetings of the Americau Forestry Association, the American Historical Association, 
and the American Geographic Association. Granolithic pavements were laid in the 
tank room, the photographic laboratory, and the north-east court, involving a large 
amount of work by the laborers in removing cases and cleaning. 

1892. 

January.— Both buildings were suitably draped in respect to the memory of Gen. 
M. C. Meigs, a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, who died January 2. The 



64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

work of preparation of floors, preliminary to the laying of new pavements by the con- 
tractors, was continued during January and February. 

February — Shelves were placed at the west entrance, in order to provide storage 
room for the property clerk. The wall-case on the south side of the north hall was 
altered. 

March. A large number of exhibition cases were cleaned, the locks overhauled, 

and the doors eased. The preparation of the lecture-hall for meetings and lectures 
required the attention of the laborers several times during the month. It was found 
that the weight of the exhibition cases rendered the bird gallery in the Smithsonian 
building unsafe, and some of the cases were accordingly removed. 

April, — An electric light was hung at the east entrance of the Museum. Skilled 
laborers were engaged in repairing the tiling around the building. Repairs were 
made in the chapel of the Smithsonian building. 

May. — The boiler room in the Smithsonian building was thoroughly cleaned and 
whitewashed, and new window frames were placed in the coral hall. The chapel 
was prepared for an exhibit by the National Art Association. An electric alarm was 
placed in the .Joseph Francis case, for the purpose of protecting the collection. 
Sewer traps were placed at the foot of the steps at the northwest entrance of the 
Museum and in front of the door to the World's Fair carpenter-shop, the work being 
done by Museum laborers. An addition was made to the south end of the Museum 
carpenter-shop, to provide room for two lathes. 

j une . — A. number of exhibition cases were brought from storage in the Armory 
building and prepared for shipment to the Madrid Exposition. The large lathe 
was removed from the engine room to the carpenter shop. The shed at the west 
end of the Smithsonian building was extended to provide room for the storage of 
cases, etc. The work on the new return pipes of the Smithsonian building was com- 
pleted on the 17th instant, so far as it was possible to carry them this fiscal year. A 
concrete walk was laid in the area at the south door of the Smithsonian, the work 
being done by laborers from the Museum force. Extensive repairs were made in the 
public-comfort rooms. 

THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS. 
TAXIDERMISTS. 

The force of taxidermists, under the charge of Mr. William Palmer, 
has been engaged, the greater part of the time, in the preparation of an 
exhibit for the World's Columbian Exposition. The entire exhibition 
series of mammals has been examined and cleaned, and a number of 
mounted specimens have been repaired and placed upon new stands. 
The skins in pickle have been overhauled. The total number of skins 
received from all sources during the year is 492. Of this number 368 
have been worked up. The total number of skins on hand at the end of 
the year is 452. For the World's Fair exhibit, 181 mammals have been 
mounted and finished, including 6 Rocky Mountain sheep, 5 Newfound- 
land caribou, 3 Alaskan caribou, 3 Arizona deer, 1 armadillos, 5 badg- 
ers, 8 Californian sea lions, a male walrus, from Walrus Island, Bering 
Sea. and an African crocodile. A series of experiments have been suc- 
cessfully made with a view to preparing a composition for making casts 
of reptiles. Experiments, with good results, have also been made in 
1 (reserving leaves and plants for use as accessories in groups of ani- 
mals. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65 



OSTKOLOGICAL PKKPAKATOlt. 



The greater part of the time of Mr. F. A. Lucas, the osteological 
preparator, has been devoted to matters other than those pertaining 
directly to his department. Important work has, however, been ac- 
complished in the preparation of skulls and skeletons for the study 
series. Several weeks were spent in the preparation of the skeleton 
of a young sperm whale. A summary of the work accomplished is 
given in the following table: 



Mammals. Birds. Reptiles. Fishes. Total. 



Receh ee in the Mesli : 

Entire skeletons .. . . 7 

Skulls 

Incomplete skeletons 

Cleaned: 

Entire skeletons 8 

Skulls 376 

Incomplete skeletons H 

Mounted : 



Skeletons 

Incomplete skeletons 

Total 



IS 


101 




388 




2H 


11 

1 


13 

1 



In addition, 86 specimens of vertebrate fossils were cleaned, 2!> molds 
and 25 casts of invertebrates were made, and 6 anatomical models were 
mounted. 

PHOTOGRAPHER. 

.Mr. T. W. Smillie, the photographer, reports that he has made 295 
negatives during the year, as follows: 

Ethnology . . . . , , , , , \:, 

Mammals , T .,...,.,,,.. , , , , 4<; 

Geology , v , :>i 

Prehistoric anthropology , 20 

Miscellaneous i:;<> 

There have also been made 1,056 silver prints, as shown by the fol- 
lowing table: 

Ethnology 770 

Mammals ; til 

Geology - 333 

Prehistoric anthropology 29 

Miscellaneous K>0 

In addition, 181 cyanotypes and 36 lantern slides were made. For 
the U. S. Fish Commission there were prepared 71!) silver prints, 389 
cyanotypes, and 35 negatives. For this work the < Jommission furnishes 
the necessary material and an assistant to aid the photographer. 
H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 5 



GG 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1*112. 



COLORIST. 

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler lias been engaged in painting- life-size easts for 
the Department of Ethnology, including among others the figure of an 
Una Indian, a group of five Kiowa children at play, an Eskimo woman 
at play-, an Eskimo woman and child. Sitting Bull, and a Labrador 
woman and child. Mr. Shindler has also continued the work of paint- 
ing in oil representations of the various races of man, and has made a 
copy from a photograph of a painting of Pocahontas, dated 1616. 

(^.—ACCESSIONS. 

The number of accessions received during the year is 1,357* (acces- 
sions Nbs. 24528 to 25884, inclusive). These accessions embraced 
228,2491 specimens, giving an average of about 168 specimens to each 
accession. This increase over the number of accessions received last 
year, as shown in the foot-note, is the more conspicuous, as no effort 
has been made to invite contributions on account of lack of space for 
exhibition or storage. A large proportion of the specimens received 
will, for this reason, have to remain in the boxes in which they were 
shipped to the Museum. 

A tabulated statement, showing the number of accessions to the 
Museum annually since 1881 (the first year of occupancy of the Museum 
building) is here presented : 



Year. 



1881 

1882 

1883 

1884.... 

1885 (January to. Tun 

1886 

1887 

1888 ' 

1889 - 

1890 -- 

1891 

1892 



\ ccession 

numbers 

(inclusive). 



9890—11000 
11001—12500 

12501—13900 
13901—15550 

15551—16208 
16209—17704 
17705—19350 
L9351 20831 
20832—22178 
22179—23340 
23341—24527 
24528—25884 



Number of 

accessions 
(luring 
the year. 



1111 

1500 
1400 
1650 
658 
1490 
1040 
14S1 
1347 
1162 
1187 
1357 



GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW OF THE MOKE IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS. 

AFRICA. 
CENTRAL AFRICA. 

L'Yom the Department of State, through Hon. James G. Blaine, Sec- 
retary, was received a collection of butterflies; a specimen of Selagi- 
nella; the pappus of a seed, collected by Mr. J. H. Camp in Central 
Africa, and four photographs of natives of West Africa. 

An increase of 170 over the number of accessions received last year. 
t An increase of 94,639 over The number of specimens received last year. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67 

EAST MM I (A. 

From Dr. Cyrus Adler, Rational Museum, were received manuscripts, 
parts of costumes, weapons, and instruments from Egypt. Dr. Adler 

also deposited a Soudanese girdle, worn by women, and a camel driver's 
coat from tlie Upper Nile region. 

Mr. William Astor Chanler, of New York City, presented two mounted 
giraffe heads (male and female). 

Mr. C. B, Cory, Boston, Mass., transmitted in exchange a skin of 
crocodile bird {Pluvcmius cegyptiaeus). 

From Dr. James Grant-Bey, Cairo, were received two Arab glass- 
lamps. 

NORTH AFRICA. 

Mr. C. F. Ancey, Boghari, Algeria, transmitted in exchange several 
specimens of rare African shells. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. 
Henry Giglioli, director, were received in exchange archaeological objects 
from northern Africa. 

SOUTH AFRICA. 

Mr. A. L. Babcock, Sherborn, Mass., transmitted, in exchange, three 
species of South African coleoptera. 

WKST AFRICA. 

Mr. R. It. Gurley, U. S. Fish Commission, presented a hammock. 

Seven specimens, representing four species of birds' skins from An- 
gola, were collected for the National Museum and transmitted by 
Messrs. W. H. and A. H. Brown. 

From Rev. A. C. Good, American mission, Gaboon, was obtained by 
purchase a collection of ethnological objects relating to the life and 
manners of the Fang tribe, and a number of musical instruments. 

^XJMlilRICA. 
NORTH AMERICA. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C.*V. Riley, 
entomologist, were received species of coleoptera new to the collec- 
tion; also specimens of North American coleoptera, collected by D. W. 
Coquillet. 

From Prof. L. Bruner, Lincoln, Nebr., through Prof. Riley, were 
received specimens of coleoptera and four types of a new orthoptera. 

From Dr. William Eichhoff, Strasburg, Germany, were received in 
exchange, typical specimens representing 100 species of North Ameri- 
can and exotic Scolytkhe, new to the collection. 

From the U. S. Fish Commission, through Col. McDonald, commis- 
sioner, was received ;i collection of crustaceans obtained bv the Fish 



C)H REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Commission vessels 011 the Atlantic coast, aud also crustaceans chiefly 
from the North Pacific Ocean, collected during the cruises of the 
steamer Albatross for the past four or five years. 

From Mr. William J. Fox, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadel- 
phia, through Prof. Riley, were received in exchange specimens of 
North American aculeate hymenoptera, most of which are new to the 
collection. 

JtHITISH A.MEKICA. 

British Columbia. — From Mr. Ashdown Green, Victoria, was received 
a line specimen of Ghirolophus polyactocephalus. 

From Mr. P. MacFarlane, Cumberland House, Saskatchewan, were 
received birds* nests, skins and eggs, collection of fossil resin, and skin 
of a marmot (Arctomys monax). 

From Dr. Karl Bominger, Ann Arbor, Mich., were received 145 
specimens of Middle Cambrian fossils from Mount Stephen. 

Mr. Frank Russell, Iowa City, Iowa, presented eight fossil shells. 

Mr. Walter D. Wilcox, New Haven. < !onn., presented valuable speci- 
mens of Middle Cambrian carboniferous fossils from Mount Stephen. 

Labrador. — Front the Department of Agriculture were received 3 
gray seals. 

Newfoundland. — From Col. Cecil (May, Department of Justice, were 
obtained by purchase 5 specimens of woodland caribou. 

CENTRAL AMERICA. 

British Honduras. —From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, 
Italy, through Prof. Henry Giglioli, director, were received archaeolog- 
ical objects from British Honduras. 

Costa Rica. — From the National Museum, San dose, were received 
birds' skins, and, through Mr. George K. Cherrie, were received type 
specimens of Mionectes semischistaceus, sp. now, and Ornithion pusillum 
subflavum. 

Mr. Gustave Michaud, San dose, through Prof ('. Y. Riley, United 
States entomologist, Departmentof Agriculture, transmitted specimens 
representing various orders of insects. 

Yucatan.— Capt. Charles E. Bendire, I. S. Army, honorary curator 
of birds' eggs. National Museum, presented a. set of eggs of Tantalus 
loculator. 

From the U. S. Fish Commission, through Col. McDonald, commis- 
sioner, were received shells and alcoholic specimens of lizards from 
Cozumel Island, oil" the coast of Yucatan, collected in 1885, 



Capt. John (1. Bonrke, U. S. Army, presented a collection of Guada- 
lajara pottery, and deposited soles of the "guarachi," or sandals, used 
by the Mexican foot-soldiers along the Rio Grande; throwing-stick and 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. (if) 

bird-spear, "and specimens of .folk-medicine of the Lower Grande Val- 
ley. 

Mr. Britton Davis, Corralitos, Chihuahua, transmitted a specimen of 
the rare snake, Heterodon kennerlyi. 

Prof. A. Duges, Guanajuato, sent the skin of an orange-crowned 
warbler (Helminthophila celata). 

From Dr. A. E.Foote, of Philadelphia, Pa., wereobtained by purchase 
2 specimens of calcite from Guanajuato. 

Mr. W. J. McGee, U. S. Geological Survey, transmitted silver ores. 

From Dr. C. II . White, V . S. Navy, were received miscellaneous 
insects from Acapulco. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy collected for the Museum in northern Mexico very 
interesting and valuable specimens. A full report upon these will be 
found in the accession list, Section v. 

UNITED STATES. 

Alabama. — Messrs. Clarence and Samuel E. Varce, Brownsville, pre- 
sented a specimen of living alder-blight, Pemphigus tesselatus Fitch. 

Alaska. — Dr. Frank Baker, acting manager of the National Zoological 
Park, transmitted to the Museum an Arctic fox and a specimen of 
aguti, a day old. The fox was obtained from St. George Island by 
Dr. 0. Hart Merriam, Department of Agriculture. 

From the U. S. Fish Commission, through Col. McDonald, commis- 
sioner, were received birds' skins and eggs, collected by C. H. Townsend, 
and plants obtained during the cruise of the steamer Albatross in 1889 
and 1890. 

Ma]. -I .W.\ 'owell, I Hrector of the U. S. Geological Survey, transferred 
to the Museum two pairs of snow-shoes, collected by Mr. I. C. Russell, 
from Charley's Village, Yukon Piver. 

Mr. Chase Littlejohn, Redwood City, Cal., presented eggs of the 
rare Steller's duck (Eniconetta stelleri), from the mouth of the Yukon 
River. 

Mr. I. C. Russell, U. S. Geological Survey, transmitted a collection of 
Eskimo ivory carvings, dishes, and other ethnological objects from the 
Upper Yukon River. 

Arizona. — From the Department of Agriculture was received a 
highly interesting collection of fresh- water shells from various locali- 
ties in Arizona, principally in the vicinity of Death Valley. 

From Mr. George A. Allen, U. S. Indian agent, Colorado River 
Agency, Parker, were received specimens of Pepsis formosa Say and 
Sphaerophthalma cveusa Cress; skins of two rare bats, Macrotus cali/or- 
nicus and Molossus ealifornicus Merriam. 

From Dr. A. E. Foote, Philadelphia, Pa., were obtained by pur- 
chase specimens of meteoric iron and the same material altered tolimo- 
nite, from Canon Diablo. 



70 REPORT OF NATIONAL .MUSEUM, 1892. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy collected for the National Museum some valuable 
reptiles, a full report upon which will be found in the accession list, 
Section v. 

Mr. George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum, presented specimens 
of Asida sordida, bee. the only insect found on the plains about Canon 
Diablo. 

Mr. Cosmos Mindeleff, 0". S. Bureau of Ethnology, presented speci- 
mens of calcite pseudomorph after glauberite. 

Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, transmitted a valuable and 
interesting- collection of reptiles and a living specimen of horned 
toad. 

Arkansas. — Dr. W. P. Jenney, U. S. Geological Survey, transmitted 
two specimens of cadmaniferous smithsonite from Morning Star Mine, 
Marion County, and specimens of ores. 

California. — From the Department of Agriculture was received a col- 
lection of fresh -water shells from Death Valley. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C. V. Riley, 
entomologist, were received specimens of Californian orthoptera, col- 
lected by D. W. Coquilletj specimens representing species of rare 
coleoptera, collected by D. W. Coquillet in San Diego and Los Angeles 
counties; specimens of Californian coleoptera, lepidoptera, hymen- 
optera, hemoptera, and diptera, also collected by Mr. Coquillet, and 
specimens of insects collected by Mr. A. Koebele, of the Death Valley 
Expedition. 

Mr. L. Belding, Stockton, presented birds' skins, and the head, wing, 
and foot of a blue goose, Chen cmrulescens. 

The Hon. W. W. Bowers, House of Representatives, presented a 
block of pure pig-iron, and a specimen of tin ore from the Temescal 
Tin Mine, South Riverside, San Bernardino County. 

Prom the Fish Commission, through Col. McDonald, commissioner, 
was transmitted the skin of a coast fox, Orocyon virginianus littoralis 
from Santa Rosa Island, collected by Mr. Charles Townsend, of the 
Fish Commission steamer Albatross. 

Mr. L. L. Frost, Susanville, presented a collection of archaeological 
objects, and a polished stone object supposed to be a charm-stone. 

Maj. J. W. Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, transferred 
to the Museum 34 specimens of radiated brown tourmaline from Colfax, 
Nevada County, collected by Mr. W. Lindgren. 

Dr. W. P. Jenney, C. S. Geological Survey, presented a specimen of 
rubellite. 

Miss Annie B. Richer, Pasadena, presented photographs of Padre 
Serra, a Mexican drawn-work maker; Father Serra's stirrup (Indian 
wood-carving), and a piece of drawn-work showing the " Little Jesus" 
stitch. 

Lieut. Charles Pond, U. S. Navy, Mare Island, sent a sphinx-moth 
(Smerinthus opthalmicus Bd.). 



REPORT OF assistant SECRETARY. 71 

Colorado. — From Mr. T. Charlton, Denver, w.eie received three teeth 
of extinct llama (Auchenia hesternd), 

From Mr. Thomas II. Jackson, West Chester, Pa., was obtained, by 
purchase, a set of eggs of the white-railed ptarmigan [Lagopus ten- 
dinis). 

Mr. W. W. .Jones, Silver ('lift', presented specimens of cerussite and 
nadorite with cerussite. 

From Mr. S. Ward Loper, F. S. Geological Survey, were received 
specimens of banded jasper from Canon City. 

Dr. William L. Ralph, Utica, N. Y., presented two skins of saw-whet 
owl (Nyetala acadica), a flammulated screech owl (Megascops jiammeo- 
lus), and a woodpecker (Dryobates villosits hyloscopus). 

Maj. J. W. Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, transferred 
to the Museum minerals and rock showing" slickensides, collected by 
Prof. S. L. Penfleld. 

Connecticut. — Mr. S. Ward Loper, U. S. Geological Survey, presented 
a specimen of angite rock from East Bock, and sent in exchange two 
slabs of shale with rain-prints from Durham. 

From Prof. William .North Rice, Wesleyan University, Middletown, 
were received rocks and ores in exchange. 

The Singer Manufacturing Company, Hartford, transmitted an old- 
style Singer sewing machine, and one of the latest style of manufac- 
ture. 

District of Columbia, — Mrs. S. S. Cox deposited the memorial vase 
presented to her by the members of the Life Saving Service of the 
United States in commemoration of the services of the late S. S. Cox. 

From Mr. H. W. Henshaw, Bureau of Ethnology, was received a fine 
set of mounted herbarium plants, representing the fauna Quercus, 
Aster, and Solidago, forming a very complete and valuable addition to 
the collection. 

From Gen. M. C. Meigs, through his executors, Montgomery Meigs 
and Mary M. Taylor, were received medals, bronzes, and other histori- 
cal relics. A full description will be found in the accession list, Sec* 
tion v. A revolving rifle of very early pattern, invented about 1835, 
made at Bochester, by Billiughnrst, seven colored sketches, and twenty- 
three pencil sketches had been previously transmitted by General 
Meigs. 

Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Takoma Park, transmitted a model 
of a fossil bird, Archceopteryx macrura,from Solenhofen, Bavaria. 

Mr. Charles AY. Richmond, of the Department of Agriculture, trans- 
mitted 3,000 birds' skins. 

Florida. — The Florida Phosphate Company. Phosphoria. transmitted 
samples of phosphate rock from various counties. 

From Dr. E. M. Hale, Chicago, 111, was received a snake, Osceola 
elapsoidea. 



r> REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, ls!»2. 

Mr. Alexander Lynch, President of the Bloomfield Kaolin and Phos- 
phate Works, Gainesville, sent specimens of kaolin. 

From Dr. William L. Ralph, Utica, N. Y., was received a mounted 
wolf, Canis lepus griseoalbus. 

From Mr. De Witt Webb, St. Augustine, were received archaeologi- 
cal objects from shell-mounds. 

Mr.G-eorge Webster, Lake Helen, transmitted specimens of land and 
fresh-water shells. 

Georgia. — Mr. J. C. Hart, Onion Point, through Mr. J. L. Black, 
Blacksburg, S. ('., transmitted specimens of magnetic ores from the 
line of Green County. 

From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Mai. I. W. Powell, director, 
were received specimens of minerals. 

/^//^>.— Maj. J. W. Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
transferred to the National Museum minerals collected by Dr. W. H. 
Melville in Mullan. 

Illinois. — Mr. ( ). Chanute, Chicago, presented a collection of antique 
patterns of rail-sections, maps, and other objects. 

Indian Territory. — Mr. AY. H. Holmes. U.S. Geological Survey, trans- 
mitted 3 rude implements of novaculite from an ancient Indian quarry. 

Indiana. — Mr. Frederick C. Test, U. S. National Museum, presented 
reptiles and batrachians. 

From Mr. Benjamin Vail, Washington. D. C. was received a trilobite 
found 3 miles west of Aurora. 

Kansas. — Maj. J. W. Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
transferred to the Museum specimens of minerals from Galena, col- 
lected by Dr. W. P. Jenney. 

Kentucky. — From the V. S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. 
Powell, director, was received a specimen of chalcedony. 

Louisiana. — Mr. T. Wayland Vaughn, Mt. Lebanon. Bienville Parish, 
presented freshwater shells representing 11 species. 

Maine. — From the Forest and Stream Publishing Company, New York 
City, was received the head and tail of an Atlantic salmon (Salmo 
salar) from the mouth of the Cabbassacontic River, sent by Mr. John 
T. Richards, Gardiner, Me. 

From Dr. A. C. Hamlin, Bangor, were received in exchange 10 cut 
specimens of tourmaline and 19 samples of red and green tourmaline. 

Dr. W. P. Jenney, TJ. S. Geological Survey, transmitted a specimen 
of kyanite from Windham. 

Maryland. — From Mr. James E.Benedict, National Museum, were 
received specimens of Gelasimus inma.c. 

From the Life-Saving Service. Treasury Department, was received a 
skeleton of Physeter macroeephalus juv., from Green Run Inlet Life- 
Saving Station, collected by Cap t. J. J. Dunton, keeper; also a rare 
specimen of fossil crab, sea-horses and specimens of quartz, obtained 
in the same manner. 



ItEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73 

From Air. L. G. Eakins, of the Geological Survey, was received a 
specimen of native gold in quartz from Potomac Mine Montgomery. 

Mr. C. W. Richmond transmitted a marsh hawk [Circus hudsonius), 
and a long-eared owl (Asio wikonianm). 

Massachusetts. — Prof. William North Rice, Wesleyan University, 
Middletown, Conn., transmitted rock and ores in exchange. 

Michigan. — Mrs. M. L. Narrin, Goodrich, transmitted specimens of 
serpentine quartzite. 

Air. George W. Webster, Lake Helen, Fla.. sent !» species of land and 
freshwater shells. 

Minnesota. — From the Bureau of Ethnology, through Maj. J. AY". 
Powell, director, was received a collection of birch-bark scrolls and 
mnemonic songs, obtained by Dr. W. J. Hoffman during tin' years 
1887-88, '89 and '90, relating to the ritual of the Society of Shamans, 
usually designated the '• Grand .Medicine Society. 1 ' 

Missouri. — From the F. S. Geological Survey, through Maj. -I. \V. 
Powell, director, were received minerals collected by Dr. YY. P. Jenney, 
in Aurora, Joplin and Sherwood. 

Montana. — From Prof. B. W. Evermann, of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion, were received two specimens of Anabrus simpler II aid., collected 
at Missoula. 

From the Fish Commission, through Col. Marshall .McDonald, com- 
missioner, was received a collection of reptiles and batrachians collected 
by the Commission in 1891, and specimens of iishes, including a new 
species, collected during the summer of L891, by a Fish Commission 
party under the direction of Prof. B. W. Evermann. 

Air. C. H. Hand, of Butte, transmitted through Messrs. Packard and 
Alelville, of the V. S. Geological Survey, a specimen of granite with 
native copper oxide, from Pice's Addition Mine. 

From Prof. A. D. Meeds, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, was 
received an exceedingly fine slab of stone from the Fort Union Group 
of southern Alontana, bearing the impression of eight fossil leaves, 
among them a Populus, new to science. 

Mr. R. S. Williams, Great Falls, transmitted the nest and four eggs 
of (reothhipis macgillivrayi, and nest and three eggs of Empirfonax fla 
virentris, both of which are rare and valuable species. 

Nevada. — From Mr. Walter F. AVebb, Geneva, 1ST. Y., were received 
15 eggs (5 sets) of Larus Cali/or ulcus from Pyramid Lake. 

Nebraska. — Prof. Robert Hay, of Kansas, sent a block of standstone 
from the sandstone dyke in northeast Nebraska. 

Maj. Powell, director of the U. S. Geological Survey, transferred to 
the Museum, the tootli of a specimen of Petalodm destructor, a carbon- 
iferous selachian, collected by Mr. David A. Harrah. 

New Hampshire. — From Mr. H. P. Sharpless, Boston. Mass.. were 
received two specimens of columbite from Wakefield. 



74 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

New Mexico.^-Mr. George H'. Thwaites, of Socorro, presented three 
fine specimens of lepidodendron. 

New Jersey. — From Mr. W. G. Binney, of Burlington, were received 
photographs <>f the teeth of moHusks, the original drawings of shells, 
slugs, and cuts of shells used in various publications on land-shells. 
These constitute a valuable donation. 

Nen- York. — From Mr. Park Benjamin, New York City, was received 
the original application of Jesse Ramsden, dated December 2, 1775, for 
a patent in England, written and signed by himself, for an astronomical 
equatorial instrument. 

Mr. E. H. Chapin, Baltimore, Md., transmitted a trilobite, Phaeop8 
rana, from the Hamilton group. 

From Mr. F. L. Church, Shusha, was obtained, by purchase, a six- 
legged frog. 

From Prof. Thomas Egleston, of the School of Mines, Columbia Col- 
lege, New York City, were received in exchange minerals from various 
localities. 

From Messrs. Otis and Gorsliue, Rochester, through Prof. H. L. Fair- 
child, were received specimens of well-drillings from a deep well at 
Rochester. 

Dr. William L. Ralph, Utica, presented a magnificent collection of 
birds' eggs, containing L,630 specimens, representing 444 sets and 104 
species, several of which are -new to the Museum, and also 100 birds' 
nests. 

Prof. William North Rice, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., 
transmitted rocks and ores in exchange. 

Mr. C. 1). Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey, presented four specimens 
of calcite from Smith's Basin, Washington County. 

From the Williamsburgh Scientific Society, Brooklyn, was received 
fossil rock found in the Catskill Mountains, at High Falls, Greene 
County. 

North Carolina. — From H. A. Lindsey, Asheville, was obtained by 
purchase a specimen of fergusonite from Madison County. 

The Morganton Land Improvement Company. Morganton, transmitted 
a specimen of almandite and specimens of corundum altering to dam- 
ourite from Burke County, and corundum from Yancey, collected by 
Mr. W. S. Yeates, of the National Museum. 

From Dr. Hugh M. Smith, TJ. S. Fish Commission, were received 
7 specimens of Arris gryllus from Plymouth. 

From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. NY. Powell, 
director, were received 40 specimens of minerals. 

Mr. W. S. Yeates, ('. S. National Museum, preseutedan Indian ban- 
ner-stone from near Zirconia. 

North Dakota. — From Mrs. Mary C. Collins were received cretaceous 
fossils from the Montana formation. 



REPORT ()F ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 75 

Oklahoma Territory. — Prom Rev. T. K. Voth, Darlington, was ob- 
tained, by purchase, a tomahawk pipe. 

Ohio. — Mr. William II. MeGinniss, Xoungstown, presented 116 crys- 
tals of selenite from Ellsworth, Mahoning County. 

Oregon. — From Dr. C. T. Cooke were received 2 skins of Steller's jay 
(Gyanocitta stelleri), and a handsome nest of the same species, new to 
the collection. 

Pennsylvania. — From Mr. R. D. Lacoe, of Pittston, was received the 
first installment of his collection of fossil plants (known as the Lacoe 
collection), presented by him to the National Museum. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, through Mr. Joseph T. Rich- 
ards, assistant chief engineer, transmitted a plaster cast of a bronze 
table for the Bordentown monument, to mark the first piece of track 
laid in the State of New Jersey, and also to commemorate the sixtieth 
anniversary of the first movement by steam in New Jersey. 

From Mr. Edward S. Thompson, Thompsontown, were received 408 
archaeological objects found along the Juniata River between Thomp- 
sontown and Port Royal. 

Titus Ulke, Washington, D. C, presented rare specimens of coleop- 
tera collected at Blue Ridge Summit. 

■From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Maj. J. W. Powell, 
Director, was received a specimen of wavellite from Steamboat Springs, 
Chester Comity. 

Rhode Island. — From Mr. George A. Lewis, Wickford, was received 
an American eider (Somateria dresseri) in the flesh. 

South Carolina. — From the Wagner Free Institute of Science, Phila- 
delphia, through Mr. Joseph Willcox, was received a collection of plio- 
cene fossils from the Waccamaw River. 

South Dakota. — Mr. John II. Ainley, Rapid City, transmitted speci 
men of hornblendic schist, showing free gold, from the Cross Mine. 
Pennington County. 

From Mr. J. H. Caton, Rosebud Agency, was received a fossil turtle, 
Stylemys nebraseensis, from Bad Lands, and impure opal from the same 
locality. 

From the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., were 
received in exchange two lizards, collected by Prof. S. Garman. 

Texas. — From Prof. II. P. At t water, Rockport, was received a set of 
eggs of Otocoris alpestris giraudi (new to the collection) and eggs of 
Gardinali8 cardinalis and Mimus polyglotUis, selected to show extremes 
in size and coloration, and forming a very interesting series. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C. V. Riley, 
were received 200 specimens of various orders of insects, collected by 
Mr. C. G. Schaupp. 

Mr. L. G. Eakins, IT. S. Geological Survey, presented gadolinite from 
Llano County. 



7C REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Vermont. — Mr. C. 1). Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey, transmitted 
specimens of contorted slate from Rutland County. 

Virginia. — From the Bureau of Ethnology, through Ma]. J. W. Powell, 
Director, was received a collection of archaeological objects from a mound 
in Rockingham County. 

Mr. Walter Morel and, Washington, D. C, sent a specimen of .Larimus 
fasciatus, rarely found on our Atlantic coast. This is the second speci- 
men so far recorded from Chesapeake Bay. 

Washington. — Robert Intram, esq., of Chenoweth, presented a speci- 
men of centiped (Chomatobius ruber), a species now occurring in the Bast, 
and a specimen of milleped, new to science. 

West Virginia. — From Mr. John R. Huddleston, Kanawha Falls, was 
obtained, by purchase, a double-headed snake. 

Wyoming. — From the U. S. Fish Commission, through Col. Mel )onald, 
were received 055 specimens of fishes, including Leuciscus gilli, a new 
species, collected during the summer of 1890, by a Fish Commission party, 
under direction of Prof. B. W. Evermann. 

Miscellaneous. — Prof. S. L. Fairfield, New Haven, Conn., presented 
specimens of minerals from various localities. 

Admiral and Mrs. .lames E. Jouett deposited a dish and ewer of 
precious metals, presented to Admiral Jouett for services rendered in 
saving from shipwreck the British steamship Historian in the Caribbean 
Sea in 1885. 

Mr. Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum, presented birds' 
skins, consisting of selected specimens, each one remarkable for some 
more or less marked peculiarity of plumage. 

From Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, U. S. National .Museum, were received 
birds" skins, including a series of Sitta cassia, from various localities. 

The U. S. Geological Survey, through Ma.j. J. W. Powell, Director, 
transferred to the Museum a collection of fossil insects, described and 
figured by Prof. S. 1 1. Scudder, of the Geological Survey, in volume xm, 
Hayden Reports ; fossil plants, transmitted by Dr. J. S. Newberry, of 
Columbia College, to the Survey, and specimens of minerals from va- 
rious localities. 

ISLANDS IX THE ATLANTIC OCI'.AX. 

St. Helena. — From Capt. W. H. Turton, P. P., Brompton Barracks, 
Chatham, England, were received shells, comprising over 400 species, 
a contribution of special interest and value. 

WEST INDIES. 

From Dr. John F. Chittenden. Victoria institute, Trinidad, through 
Hon. William Pierce, U. S. Consul, were received specimens of Achirus 
lineatus and Azevia n. sp. 

Mr. C. W. Cunningham, through Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the 
Geological Survey, transmitted samples of crude potroleum. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 77 

From Dr. -1. F. R. Dufour, Washington, D. C, was received ;i skin 
of brown pelican ( Pelecanus fuscus). 

Mr. Frank Everett, Washington, I). C, presented birds' eggs, and 
deposited a ( 'arib stone hatchet from the island of Navassa. 

From Mr. T. H. Morgan, Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, were received 
crustaceans from near Jamaica. 

From the Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia, were re- 
ceived land-shells. 

SOUTH AMERICA, 

BRAZIL. 

Messrs. Tiffany & Company, New York City, transmitted in exchange 
a specimen of " Phantom" quartz. 

Mr. William Palmer, U. S. National Museum, presented a specimen 
of Jandaya Parrakeet (Cornurus jandaya). 

From the Eoyal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. 
Henry Giglioli, director, were received in exchange archaeological 
objects from Brazil. 



Dr. C. EL White, l T . S. Navy, presented specimens of crude nitrate 
of soda from Iquique. 



Dr. White, U. S. Navy, transmitted a collection of insects from Payta. 

UNITED STATES OF COLOMBIA. 

From Mr. M. L. Marks, Washington, I). C, were received 5 gold orna- 
ments obtaiued from ancient graves. 

VENEZUELA. 

Mr. K. M. Bartlemau, United States legation, Caracas, transmitted 

photographs of native scenery and other objects relating to Venezuela. 
He also sent an armadillo (Tatusia sp.). 

From Mr. C. B. Biker, New York City, were received birds' skins 
from the Lower Amazon. 

CHINA. 

From Mr. Komyn Hitchcock were received (5 copies of the " Peking 
Gazette," the oldest newspaper in the world and now published daily 
in Peking. 

From Dr. J. Neumann, Hoihow, were obtained a collection of cocoa 
nut ware, tools used for carving shells, and other ethnological objects. 



78 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1893. 



Dr. William L. Abbott, Philadelphia, presented a very fine collection 
ol* mammal skins, skulls, bones, birds' skins, and a rope madeof goat's 
hair used by the coolies of Kashmir in packing their loads. A full 
report of this sending will be found in the Accession List in Section v. 

From the Calcutta Botanic Garden were received specimens of dried 
plants. 

JAPAN. 

From r he Science College Museum, Imperial University, Tokio, 
through Dr. J. Ijima, were received two skins of Japanese ptarmigan 
(Lagopus, species undetermined). 



From Mr. I\ L. Jouy, U. S. National Museum, was received the skin 
of a land otter (Lutronectes sp.). From Mr. Jouy was also obtained, 
by purchase, specimens of reptiles from a remote region of Korea. 

From the Department of State were received specimens of wool and 
woolen fabrics, transmitted by Consul-General Samuel Merrill, from 
Chitteldroog and Davengire Taluks, in the Chitteldroog district, prov- 
ince of Mysore, collected by Mr. L. Ricketts, director of statistics and 
agriculture in Mysore-Bungalore, svith a report on sheep and wool in 
India furnished by Mr. Merrill; samples of Indian wool, collected by 
Mr. Merrill and Mr. T. X. Mukharji, assistant curator of the Indian 
Museum; woolen fabrics contributed by Mr. L. Ricketts, of Mysore- 
Bungalore; and specimens of Indian wools, woolen yarns and fabrics, 
transmitted through Mr. Merrill. 

ASIATIC RUSSIA. 

Lieut. G. B. Harber, U. S. Navy, transmitted articles of fur clothing 
worn by him while connected with the Jeannette Belief Expedition, 
made by the Yokuti of northern Siberia. 

From the II. S. Treasury Department was received the skin of a 
female walrus (Odobwnus obesus), captured in Holy Cross Bay, Siberia, 
and transmitted by Capt. M. A. Healy, U. S. R. M. steamer Bear, 
through Lieut. D. H. Jarvis, of the same steamer. 

From Mr; Romyn Hitchcock, XI. S. National Museum, was obtained 
by purchase a walrus's head and tusks from Anadir Bay. 

From the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Sweden, 
were received, in exchange, 140 species of Siberian phanerogams. 

Messrs. Tiffany & Co., New York City, transmitted, in exchange, 3 
ornamental stones. 

ASIA MINOR. 

From Dr. John P. Peters, Philadelphia, was received through Dr. 
Cyrus Adler, a Turkish baker's tally from Broussa, in Aaia Minor, the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7'.) 

ancieut capital of Turkey. From Dr. Peters were also received a 
weaving-loom, card, and shuttle. 

ISLANDS IN THE INDIAN OCEAN, 

Mr. Hugh Fulton, London, England, scut, in exchange, a specimen 
of Volwta auliea L. 

Mr. Isaiah Greegor, Jacksonville, Florida, presented interesting- 
marine shells. 

KXJ ROPE, 

Dl'.WIAKh. 

From Mr. N. C. Gram, Dyrefjord, Iceland, were received two ladies 1 
side-saddles, one marked 178!> and the other reported to be 250 years 
old. 

From the Icelandic Natural History Society, through Mr. Benjamin 
Grondal, president, were received, in exchange, portions of a woman's 
costume, carved vessels for food, and other ethnological objects from 
Reykjavik, Iceland. 

Dr. D. S. Martin, New York, transmitted two specimens of lignite 
from Disco Island, Greenland. 

Messrs. Wyekoff, Seauians & Benedict. New York City, transmitted 
a Mallig-Hansen typewriter from Copenhagen. 



From Mr. Henry Balfour, Oxford. England, were received, in ex- 
change, archaeological objects. 

Mr. George F. Harris, London, England, sent a collection of Eocene 
fossils, chiefly from the Paris basin. 

Miss Katherine Parsons, Washington, I). C. deposited a sedan 
chair formerly owned by the family of Louis XIV. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. 
Henry Giglioli, director, were received archaeological objects from 
France. 

GERMANY. 

From Dr. William Eichhoff, Strasburg, were received in exchange 
type specimens representing 100 species of Scolytida'. all new to the 
collection. 

Prof. Dr. A. Nehring, Berlin, transmitted, in exchange, seeds of 
Cratopleura helvetica Nehringi, C. AVeber, found in peat at Klingi. 

From Prof. A. Streng, Giesseu, were received minerals, in exchange. 

GREAT 15RITAIN. 

From Prof. George S. Brady, Sunderland, were received in exchange 
specimens of British fresh-water Cyclopidse. 



SO REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892. 

From Messrs. Elkington & Company, London, was received an elec- 
trotype reproduction of Tycho-Baehe's quadrant. 

Mr. A. E. Foote, Philadelphia, transmitted in exchange specimens 
of anglesite and matlockite from Cromford, Derbyshire. 

From Mr. C. D. Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey, were received 
eckinoids, specimens of flint, and the tooth of a shark from the creta- 
ceous chalk of Croydon. 



From C. II. Pennypacker, West Chester, Fa.. were obtained, by pur- 
chase, specimens of adamite and smithsonite. 

NORTH HOLLAND. 

Mr. Edward Lovett, Croydon. England, tramsraitted ;i curious old 
Hint. 

ITALY. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. 
Henry Giglioli, director, were received archaeological objects ami 
spon gesi 

Dr. G. Frown Goode, Assistant Secretary. National Museum, collected 
for the Museum twenty -three pieces of Savony faience. The potteries 
have been discontinued for nearly two centuries, and the pieces are 
principally of the 14th and 15th centuries, most of them being drug- 
gist's vessels of a highly ornate character. 

From the National Museum of Anthropology, Florence, through Dr. 
Paolo Mantegazza, director, were received archaeological objects. 



Mr. Charles de Struve, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipo- 
tentiary, Russian legation, presented thirty-nine sheets of portraits of 
Russians. 

Lieut. George F. Emmons, U. S. Navy. Sitka, Alaska, transmitted 
a fish-knife obtained from a native Russian woman. The knife was 
made in Siberia, and is a relic of ancient Russia. 

Mr. George F. Kunz, Hoboken, N. J., transmitted through Consul 
General -I. M. Crawford, St. Petersburg, a collection of castings of 
figures, set of Russian weights, samples of ores, and specimens of 
sand from which the castings are made. 



From Hon. R. W. Turner, U. S. consul, was obtained a small cast 
of a Phoenician tomb. 

SWEDEN. 

The geological survey of Sweden, Stockholm, transmitted, in ex- 
change, specimens of Cambrian fossils. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 81 



SWITZERLAND 



Prof. II. <U' Saussure, Museum <>1' Natural History, Geneva, sent 
specimens of orthoptera. 

OCEANICA. 
AUSTRALASIA. 

AUSTRALIA. 

New South Wales. — From the Australian Museum, through Dr. E. P. 
Ramsay, curator, was received a collection of birds' skins, mammals, 
echinoderms, graptolites, and specimens of crustaceans and asteroidea. 

Dr. C. C. Cox, through Mr. Charles Headley, Australian Museum, 
Sidney, New South Wales, transmitted alcoholic specimens of JEJjphippo- 
donta Macdougalli Tate, a very remarkable bivalve mollusk, recently 
described, from Australia. 

NEW CALEDONIA. 

From Rev. H. B. Tristram, The College, Durham, England, were 
received birds' skins in exchange. 

NEW GUINEA. 

From Dr. James Rodman, Hickman, Ky., was obtained by purchase 
a superb bird of paradise (Lophorhina superba). 

The Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. Henry 
Giglioli, director, transmitted archaeological objects in exchange. 

Rev. H. B. Tristram, The College. Durham, England, transmitted 

birds 1 skins in exchange. 

■ 

QUEENSLAND. 

Mr. S. F. Denton, TT. S. Fish Commission, presented a skin of white- 
bellied sea eagle (Haliaetus leucogaster) or allied species. 

From Mr. E.E.Howell, Washington, D. C, were received, in exchange, 
specimens of cut and rough opals. 

VICTORIA. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C. V. Riley, en- 
tomologist, were received specimens of Australian hemiptera, collected 
by Mr. J. G. (). Tepper, of Adelaide. 

From Mr. W. T. Bednall. of the South Australian Museum, was re- 
ceived a specimen of Anthcerea eucalypti. 

NEW ZEALAND. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. Riley, were re- 
ceived specimens of New Zealand Goccinellidw, collected by Mr. D, W, 
Coquillet. 

II. Mis. lit, pt. 2 G 



82 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

From the Auckland Museum, through Prof. T. F. Cheeseman, curator, 
were received in exchange botanical specimens, insects, birds' skins 
and skeletons. 

The Otago Museum, Dunedin, through Dr. T. Jeffrey Parker, director, 
transmitted specimens of crustaceans in exchange. 

Mr. Charles T. Simpson . U. S. National Museum, presented dried 
specimens of Lepas liillii. 

MALAYSIA. 

From Mr. Victor A. Jenny, consular agent at Macassar, Celebes, 
were received specimens of shells, ethnological objects, and three musi- 
cal instruments, collected by him for the National Museum. 

Hon. Alexander Webb, United States consul, Manila, Philippine 
Islands, transmitted to the Museum musical instruments collected by 
him for the National Museum. 

Hon. Rounsevelle Wildman, United States consul, Singapore, Straits 
Settlements, transmitted Malayan musical instruments and ethnologi- 
cal objects collected by him for the National Museum. 

POLYNESIA. 

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 

Lieut. T.G. Fillette, U S. Navy, deposited a cane of palm- wood with 
handle made of a wild boar's tusk, gold-mounted, presented to him by 
King- Kalakaua. 

From Mr. Scott B. Wilson, Heatherbank, Weybridge, Surrey, Eng- 
land, was obtained, by purchase, a skin of Baillou's grosbeak [Loxioides 
bailloui). 

SAMOA2S ISLANDS. 

• 

From Hon. Harold M. Sewall, United States consul, was received a 
collection of Samoan musical instruments. 

From Ward's Natural Science Establishment, Rochester, N. Y., was 
received the type of the flying fox, Pteropus lanigera. 



H.— COOPERATION OF THE DEPARTMENTS AND BUREAUS 
OF THE .GOVERNMENT DUPING THE YEAR ENDING 
JUNE 30, 1892. 

The National Museum during the past year has been the recipient 
of numerous contributions from the different bureaus of the Govern- 
ment, as will be seen from the following statements: 

DEPARTMENT OF STATE. 

From the Department were received specimens of Indian wool, woolen 
yarns and fabrics; also samples of Indian wool, collected by Consul- 
General Samuel Merrill, Calcutta, India, assisted by Mr. T. N. Muk- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83 

harji, assistant curator of the Indian Museum, and ;i report by Mr. 
Samuel Merrill relating to sheep and wool in India; wool and woolen 
fabrics from Chitteldroog and Davengire Tuluks in the Chitteldroog 
district, Mysore Province, contributed l>y Mr. L. Ricketts, director of 
statistics and agriculture in the Mysore Bungalore, also transmitted 
by Mr. Merrill to the Department of State and transferred to the Na- 
tional Museum. 

From Mr. R. M. Bartleman, of the United States legation at Caracas, 
Venezuela, were received photographs of native scenery and other 
objects of interest in Venezuela, also of the shores of the lagoon of 
Lake Sinamaica, Goajira Lake dwellings, and a group of Goajira 
Indians. 

Hon. Truxton Beale, United States consul. Teheran, Persia, transmit 
ted to the Department of State, three molds of sculptures from Persep- 
olis, which were transferred to the Museum. 

Consul-general .John M. Crawford, St. Petersburg, Russia, kindly 
forwarded, through the State Department, a collection of castings of 
figures, ethnological objects, iron ores, and sample of the sand from 
which the castings are made, obtained by Mr. George F. Kunz, of 
Hoboken, N. J., for the National Museum. 

Mr. Charles de Struve, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipoten- 
tiary, Russian legation, Washington, D. C, presented 39 sheets of eth- 
nological portraits of the inhabitants of Russia. 

Mr. Victor A. Jenny, consular agent at Macassar, Celebes, transmitted 
three musical instruments, specimens of shells, and ethnological objects. 

Mr. William P. Pierce, United States consul at Trinidad, West Indies, 
forwarded through the Department of State, in behalf of Dr. J. F. Chit- 
tenden of the Victoria Institute, specimens of sole (Achirus lineatus 
and Azevia n. sp.). 

From Mr. Harold M. Sewall, United States consul. Apia, Samoa, were 
received a number of native musical instruments. 

Mr. R. W. Turner, United States consul, Cadiz. Spain, transmitted 
a door formerly used in the convent of La Rabida at Palos, and a small 
cast of a Phoenician tomb. 

From Mr. Alexander R. Webb, United States consul, Manila, Philip- 
pine Islands, were received ethnological objects and musical instru- 
ments used by the natives. 

Mr. Rounsevelle Wildinann, United States consul, Singapore. Straits 
Settlements, transmitted a collection of Dyak and Malayan ethno- 
logical objects, shells, corals, and musical instruments. 

TREASURV DEPARTMENT. 

The requests for free entry which have heretofore been extended by 
the Treasury Department to the National Museum in connection with 
collections from foreign countries, have as usual been complied with. 
The bureaus named below have shown much interest in the work of 



84 RETORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the Museum, and have rendered valuable assistance in procuring con 
tributions: 

U. 8. Coast <ind Geodetic Surrey. — Through Dr. T. G. Mendenhall, 
Superintendent, was received a collection of insects, mammals, birds 
skins, fishes, geological material, birds 1 eggs and a nest, collected by 
Assistant J. E. MeGrath during his expedition to Alaska. 

('. 8. Life-Saving Service. — From this Bureau were received specimens 
of quartz pebbles, 2 sea-horses (Hippocampus hudsonius), and a fossil 
crab, collected at Ocean City life-saving station by Capt. J. J. Dun ton, 
keeper, and also a skeleton of Physeter macroceplialm juv. from Green 
Run Inlet, collected by Capt. Dunton. 

I', 8. Revenue-Marine Service. — From ('apt. M. A. Healy, through 
Lieut. D. H. Jarvis, both of the steamer Bear, was received the skin of 
a female walrus ( Odobaznus obesus), captured in Holy Cross Bay, Siberia. 

WAR DEPARTMENT AND THE ARMY. 

Several officers of the Army have contributed material to the Museum 
collections, and very valuable assistance has been rendered by the 
Quartermasters Department in connection with the transportation of 
heavy material to Washington. 

Gen. M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster-General (retired), presented a 
revolving rifle (in a mahogany case) of early pattern, invented about 
1835, and made in Rochester, N. Y. 

A large collection of bronze medals, intaglios, antique stones, and 
other objects of a similar nature were deposited in the Museum by the 
executors of Gen. Meigs's estate, as a bequest from him to the Xational 
Museum. 

Col. R. I. Dodge (retired), Sacketts Harbor, N. V., transmitted 4 speci- 
mens of horse-fly (Gathophilus equi Fab.) and a Wasp [Pelccinm poly- 
cerator). 

From Maj. William EL Powell, Fort Keogh, Mont., was received, 
through Dr. 1). P. Wolhaupter, of Washington, D. G. a pipe belonging 
to Washakie, an Arapahoe chief, presented to Maj. Powell by him dur- 
ing the campaign of L876. 

Capt. Charles F. Bendire, curator of birds' eggs in the National 
Museum, presented the skin of an American pipit [Anthus pensilvani&m) 
from Lockport, X. V., a set of eggs of Tantalus loeulator from Yucatan, 
and deposited a buffalo robe, lance-holder (rawhide beaded), and a 
beaded quiver made of otter skin. 

Capt. John (1. Bourke, Fort Ringgold, Tex., presented a collection of 
Guadalajara pottery, specimens of materia medica obtained from a 
Mexican woman, samples of folk-medicine from Lower Rio Grande Val- 
ley, and salt crystals from the Fl Sal del Rev Lake in southern Texas. 
Capt. Bourke deposited three votive offerings, soles of the "guarachi," 
or sandals used by the Mexican foot troops along the Kio Grande, a 
throw ing-stiek, and a bird-spear from Mexico, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 85 

Lieut. HarryC. Benson, Fort Walla Walla. Wash., transmitted nests 
and eggs of Troehilus alexandri with skins of tlie same, sets of eggs of 
Buteo swainsoni and Accipiter cooperi from St. Louis ranch, San .Joa- 
quin Valley, California, and Santa Lucia Valley. 

From Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, Fort Snelling, Minn., were received birds' 
eggs and skins, mammal skins, turtle, and forty-eight species of shells. 
In connection with his work on the International Boundary Commission. 
Dr. Mearns obtained for the Museum a collection of birds' skins and 
eggs, turtles, and mammal skins, birds' eggs, birds' nests, rocks, shells, 
fossils, mammal skulls, cocoon of bag worm, and fishes. 

Dr. J. IT. Porter, Army Medical Museum, Washington, 1). ('..trans- 
mitted two human skulls, piece of hone, and 4 stone implements from 
Rockingham County, Va. 

From Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Takoma Park, I). C, were received birds' 
nests and skins; model of a fossil bird, Archceopteryx macrura, from 
Solenhofen, Bavaria; nest of prairie warbler (Dendroica discolor) from 
Takoma Park; a skin of Wilson's snipe (Gallinajo delicata) from Fort 
Wingate, X. Mex.; specimen of Carinifex Ne?vbergi, from the Equus 
beds, Fossil Lake. Oregon, and a specimen of iguana. 

Dr. Timothy B. Wilcox. Fort Huachuoa, Ariz., presented a collection 
of mammals, insects, reptiles, fishes, and birds,* and a living horned 
toad. 

From Dr. Charles E. Woodruff, Fort Missoula, .Mont., through Mr. 
Garrick Mallery, of the Bureau of Ethnology, were deposited thirty- 
seven photographs pertaining to the Hoopa V alley Indians of California, 
and presented a stone baking-dish obtained from the same tribe of Indi- 
ans. 

From Rev. J. H. Potter, Fort Clark. Tex., was received a large speci- 
men of fresh- water shrimp. 

Mr. Frank X. Holzner, Fort Snelling. Minn., presented specimens of 
mammals and birds' skins. 

Mr. Charles E. Fosdick. of the War Department, transmitted a star 
fish with nine rays. 

NAVY DEPARTMENT AND THE NAVY. 

Admiral Jouett and Mrs. Jouett deposited a dish and ewer of ''pre 
cious metals," presented to the Admiral for services rendered in saving 
from shipwreck the British steamship Historian in the Caribbean Sea 
in 1885. 

From Lieut. George F. Emmons, Sitka, Alaska, was received a fish 
knife made in Siberia, and preserved as a relic of the old Russian days. 

From Lieut. T. G. Fillette were received seven pictures illustrating 
the Chinese idea of the war in Tonkin, and a showbill, ••Chiarinisshow 



* Dr. Wilcox was assisted in obtaining this collection by Miss Florence Wilcox, 
Lieuts. J. A. Emery and Simpson, Dr. R. G. Ebert, Master Harry Ebert, Master Fred 
Fowler, Master Glover Wilcox, and Mr. Leah, hospital steward, 



86 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, L891 

in China." Mr. Fillette deposited ;i cane made of |>al:n wood, with a 
handle carved from the head of a wild boar, presented to him by King 
Kalakana, of the Hawaiian Islands. 

Lieut. C II. Harber transmitted portions of a fur costume, made by 
the Yokuti of North Siberia and worn by him on the Lena Delta, (lur- 
ing - his connection with the Jeannette relief expedition. 

Lieut. Charles F. Pond, Mare Island Navy-Yard, California, trans- 
mitted a specimen of sphinx moth (Smerinthus ophthalmicus Bd.). 

From Lieut. F. E. Sawyer were received specimens of crustaceans 
collected in Brazil. 

Ensign Roger Wells, jr., obtained a specimen of cayman (juv.) from 
Trinidad, West Indies, which he transmitted to the National Zoological 
Park. Tin 1 specimen was transferred to the National Museum by Dr. 
Baker, acting manager. 

Dr. Howard E. Ames transmitted a bird skin, reptiles, fishes, crus- 
taceans, ophiurans, and insects from the West Indies and South Amer- 
ica. 

From Dr. W. H. Bush were received shells from the eastern coast of 
South America. 

From Dr. C. H. White was received a miscellaneous collection of 
insects made at Acapulco, Mexico, and Payta, Pern. Dr. White also 
presented a specimen of crude nitrate of soda from Iquique, Chile. 

From the United States Naval Eclipse Expedition were received seven 
birds' skins, representing two species, from Ascension and St. Helena 
islands. 

Dr. -lames M. Flint, under whose efficient supervision, as honorary 
curator, the collection of materia medica has been developed, was re 
called in November, 181)1, by the Secretary of the Navy. He was suc- 
ceeded by Dr. J. C. Boyd, who, in April. L892, was succeeded by Dr. 
William S. Dixon. 

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR. 

Indian Office. — From Mr. George A. Allen, United States Indian 
agent, Colorado River Agency, Parker, Ariz., were received specimens 
of Pepsis formosa Say and Sphcerophthalma creusa Cress., skins of two 
rare bats, Macrotus californicus and Molossus californicus, and speci- 
mens of Trombidium, n. sp., near giganteum Riley. 

Dr. Z. T. Daniel transmitted several contributions from Cheyenne 
River Agency, S. Dak., and Blackfeet Indian Agency, Mont., among 
which were archaeological objects from an ancient Indian village 
site near Fort Bennett; ethnological objects found in a camp of" Big 
Foot's" people; lock of hair cut from the head of "Yellow Thigh and 
Bed Star," a Yankton Sioux Indian and a participant in the Custer 
battle; scraper from the ruins of a I fee village; moccasin- shaped stone 
from Montana; plum seeds. •'kansu, r used by the Sioux Indians 
for gambling purposes, and a ration ticket of "Banged-in-the-Eye;" 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 87 

wooden spoon obtained from an Indian of the Piegan tribe, Montana; 
archaeological objects, chalcedonic concretions, and specimens of water- 
worn chalcedony; pipe made by "Afraid-of-Nothing," a Sioux Indian, 
and a pipe pouch made by an Indian of the same tribe: specimen of 
hawk moth (Memaris Mffinis Bd). 

Pension Office. — From Mr. W. W. Cheshire was received a photograph 
of the breastbone of a wild goose, perforated by an Eskimo arrow. 

From Merritt Lewis, esq., was received a carved stone pipe from 
Clinton County, Mich. 

U. 8. Geological Survey. — The following statement will show the 
extent of the accessions transmitted by the Survey daring the year: 

Through Map J. VV. Powell, director, was received a collection of 
vertebrate fossils obtained from the estate of the late Dr. Joseph Leidy ; 
specimen of pyrolusite from 1 mile west of Walnut Grove, in Murphrees 
Valley, Etowah County, Ala.; 2 specimens of bornite from Gillis Com- 
pany's mine, Guilford Comity, X. G; a large collection of cretaceous 
invertebrate fossils, gathered in Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, Oregon, 
Washington, California, Dakota, Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and Mon- 
tana; chalcedony from Frankfort, Ky. ; specimens of minerals from 
various localities, consisting of agate, selenite, satin spar, calcite, 
fluorite, quartz, phlogopite, chalcedony, massive apatite, stalactite, 
dolomite and calcite, and kaolin in quartz geodes; 2 specimens of 
sphalerite, 11 specimens of calamine, a specimen of galena, and 4 
specimens of calcite from Aurora, Mo.; minerals, consisting of pink 
grossularite, tridymite, orthoclase, sylvanite, emplectite, fluorite, mi- 
metite, damesonite, adularia, smoky quartz, tourmaline, wernerite and 
strontianite; 40 specimens of galena and 15 of sphalerite from Joplin, 
Mo.; collection of fossil insects, constituting the group mentioned, 
described and figured by Prof. S. H. Scudder, of the Geological Sur- 
vey, Vol. xiii, Hayden Reports; specimen of wavellite from Steamboat 
Springs, Chester County, I 'a. 

Collected by Dr. T. M. Chatard, 46 specimens of minerals from North 
Carolina, 10 specimens from Georgia, and a specimen from Pennsyl- 
vania, consisting of lucasite, asbestus, corundum, vermicnlite, enstatite. 
talc, garnet, sun stone, andesite, diaspore, chrysolite, margarite, amphi- 
bole and spinel. 

Collected by Mr. David A. llarrah, Burehard, Nebr., tooth of Vita 
Indus destructor, a carboniferous selachian. 

Collected by Dr. W. P. Jenney, 4 specimens of galena, 12 specimens 
«»f calcite on galena from Joplin.. Mo. ; 1!) specimens of pyrite. sphalerite, 
cerussite and smithsonite from Galena, Kans. 

Collected by Mr. W. Liudgren, 34 specimens of radiated brown tour- 
maline from Colfax, Nevada County, Cal. 

Collected by Prof. O. C. Marsh, specimens of invertebrate fossils 
transferred from the Survey to the Museum. 

Collected by Dr. W. II. Melville, minerals from Dillon. Mont.: 29 



88 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

specimens of minerals, consisting of barite, galena, plattnerite, garnet 
and cerussite from Mullan, Idaho. 

Collected by Dr. J. S. Newberry, Columbia College, New York City, 
specimens of fossil plants transmitted to the Survey and. transferred to 
the Museum. 

Collected by Prof. S. L. Penheld, 59 specimens of minerals from 
Colorado, consisting of aragonite, cerussite, pyrite, native gold, rhodo- 
chrosite, galena, orthoclase crystals, embolite, hyalite, and calcite, 
specimen of hubnerite from North Star mine, and '2 of guitermanite 
and zunyite from Zuiii mine near Silverton, Colo, (deposit i, specimen 
of rock showing slickensides from central Colorado. 

Collected by Mr. J. C. Russell. 2 pairs of snow-shoes from Charley's 
Village, Yukon River. 

Collected by Mr. H. YV. Turner, 5 specimens of garnet and 4 speci- 
mens of epidote. 

From Mr. Frank Burns was received an iron tomahawk from Blount 
County. Ala. 

Dr. T. M. Chatard deposited a scarf pin made of cassiterite from 
Chesterfield County, S. C. 

From Miss May Clark was received a fetish (mole) from New Mexico 
(exchange). 

Mr. William II. Dall transmitted 10 specimens ofmollusks from Bad- 
deck, Cape Breton Island, Xova Scotia; <"> albums containing photo- 
graphs of ethnological objects and celebrated men, and a daguerrotype 
of Rev. C. H. A. Dall, of Harvard College. 

Prom Mr. L. G. Fakins was received a specimen of gadolinite from 
Llano County, Tex., and a specimen of native gold in quartz from the 
Potomac mine. Montgomery County, Md. 

L Dr. W. P. Jenney transmitted ores from Arkansas, 2 specimens of 
cadminiferous smithsonite from Morning Star mine, Marion County, 
Ark., a specimen of rubellite from San Diego. CaL. and one of kyanite 
from Windham, Me. 

From Mr. L. C. Johnson were received fresh-water shells from Wad- 
dell's mill pond, near Marianna, Fla. 

From Mr. W. Lindgren were received rocks and ores from Lake 
Valley, New Mexico. 

From Mr. S. Ward Loper were received 6 specimens of banded 
jasper from Crown City, Colo. ; 2 slabs. of shale with rain-prints from 
Durham, Conn., and a specimen of angite rock from Fast Bock, New 
Haven, Conn. 

Mr. W .1 McGee transmitted silver ores from Mexico. 

From Mr. R. II. Payne was received an enamel picture on glass, 
transferred from stone. 

Mr. I. C. Russell transmitted a collection of Eskimo ivory carvings, 
dishes, spoons, pipes, daggers, and ethnological objects of various kinds 
from the Upper Yukon River. Alaska. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 89 

From Dr. R. K. C. Steams were received 1 specimens of shrimp 

from the western coast of North America, and a garter-snake from 
Berkeley, Cal. 

Mr. H. W. Turner transmitted an alcoholic specimen of shrew (Sorex 
vagrans). 

FromMr. C. D. Walcott was received contorted slate from near Wells, 
Rutland County. Vt.j 5 echinoids, 5 specimens of flint, and tooth of a 
shark from the cretaceous chalk of Croydon, England, and 4 speci- 
mens of calcite from Smith's Basin, Washington County, N. Y. 

Several of the honorary curators in the National Museum are officers 
of the Geological Survey, and the Museum is much indebted to them for 
their valuable cooperation with the work of the Museum. These are Mr. 
C. D. Walcott, in charge Of paleozoic fossils: Dr. C. A. White, in charge 
of meso/.oic fossils; Mr. William H. Dall, in charge of mollusks and 
cenozoic fossils; Prof. Lester F. Ward, in charge of fossil plants; Prof. 
F. W. Clarke, in charge of minerals, and Prof. (). C. Marsh, in charge 
of vertebrate fossils. 

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through the Secretary, have 
been received the following objects: 

Collection of land and fresh-water shells from various localities in 
Arizona and in the vicinity of Death Valley. 

Three Gray seals from Labrador. 

From the Division of Forestry were received 37 photographs repre- 
senting species of woods, 18 photomicrographs of woods of the United 
States (deposited), and 12 distribution charts of trees of the United 
States, prepared by Mr. C. S. Sargent, special agent of the Tenth 
Census. 

Through the Division of Economic Ornithology, were received speci- 
mens of land and fresh- water shells from Brownsville, Tex., collected by 
Mr. William Lloyd; 3 portions of JSlephas bones, 323 birds' eggs, and 
r>5 birds 1 nests from ( Jalifornia, Nevada, Utah and Texas. 

Through Prof. C. V. Riley, entomologist: specimens of North Ainei 
ican coleoptera, representing 24 species, new to the collection; collec- 
tion of insects of all orders, made in the Northwestern States, British 
Columbia and Alaska; .V> specimens of Californiau orthoptera, repre- 
senting 21 species; 78 specimens, representing 25 species of insects, 
mostly lepidoptera; large series of hymeuoptera and homoptera from 
southern California; 43 specimens, representing 17 species of neurop- 
tera ; 31 specimens, representing 7 species of orthoptera; 130 speci- 
mens, representing 43 species of hemiptera, from Los Angeles; 28 
specimens, representing 4 species of Australian Coccinellidce', L'45 spec 
imens, representing 51 species of Californiau coleoptera; 81 specimens, 
representing 31 species of California!] lepidoptera; -<>(> specimens, rep- 



!)() REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

resenting 59 species of California^ bynienoptera; _J4(> specimens, rep- 
resenting- 64 species of Californiau hemiptera; L82 specimens, repre- 
senting 18 species of diptera {Bombylidm), including types of new- 
species; 236 specimens, representing 35 species of North American 
coleoptera and 25 specimens of New Zealand CoccinellicUe; 5 new spe- 
cies of Bombylidce, consisting of Lordotus junceus Coq., Lordotus diver- 
sus Coq., Toxophor a vasta Coq., Paracosmus insolens Coq., Amphicos- 
mus elegans Coq., <S species of rare coleoptera, and 7 species of rare 
orthoptera; 170 specimens, representing 11 species of rare coleoptera, 
new to the collection, from San Diego and Los Angeles counties, col- 
lected by Mr. D. W. Coqnillet; 3,473 specimens, representing 636 spe- 
cies of insects obtained by Mr. A. Koebele during his connection with 
the Death Valley Expedition; 200 specimens, representing insects of 
various orders, collected by Mr. C. Gr. Schaupp, in Burnet County, 
Tex.; and a miscellaneous collection of insects, including biologic ma- 
terial also collected by Mr. Schaupp at Cypress Mills, Tex.; specimens 
of Australian hemiptera, representing 8 species, collected by Mr. J. CO. 
Tepper, of Adelaide. 

Through Dr. George Vasey, botanist: specimen of "Travellers 
Tree," from Mexico. 

From Mr. Frank H. Hitchcock were received 3 meadow larks, 3 spar- 
row hawks, a blue jay, a red-tailed hawk from Maryland, and a tor- 
toise collected by Mr. E. A. Preble from the Potomac Flats. 

From Mr. S. B. Johnson, through Mr. F. W. Malley, assistant ento- 
mologist, was received the upper jaw bone of a paddle fish {Polyodon 
folium) from a stratum of rock at Rocky Point. La. 

From Mr. Charles W. Richmond were received 3,000 specimeus of 
birds* skins from the District of Columbia ; 152 specimens of reptiles and 
batraehians from various localities; 12 birds (chiefly owls), represent- 
ing species, from Sandy Spring, Md., red-tailed hawk, sparrow-hawk, 
broad winged hawk, sharp-shinned hawk, Cooper's hawk, long-eared 
owl, from Maryla n< i ; 35 specimens, representing 6 species of birds' skins, 
from the District of Columbia. 

From Dr. A. Charles True were received 6 specimens of cretaceous 
fossils from dniontown, Ala., teeth of Gorax prislodontus and Lamna 
elegans, tooth of Lamna cuspidota, and vertebra of Lestosaurus from 
the same locality. 

From Mr. n. E, Van Deman was received a specimen of black skim- 
mer. 

Mr. Harry G. White transmitted a specimen of red-tailed hawk and 
a short eared owl in flesh from Arlington, Va. 

The very valuable services rendered by Prof. Riley, honorary curator 
of insects; Dr. B. E. Fernow, honorary curator of the section of for- 
estry; and Dr. George Vasey, honorary curator of the department of 
botany, have been continued and are hereby acknowledged. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 91 

UNITED STATES 1TSI1 COMMISSION. 

The following collections and contributions have been transmitted to 
the National Museum through Col. Marshall McDonald, U.S. Coni- 
missioner of Fisheries: 

Four photographs of Alaskan Indians and their houses; frog from 
Grenadier Island, New York; specimens of Avian entozoo from Yellow- 
stone Park, described by Prof. Edward Linton; 955 specimens of fishes, 
representing 15 species, including Leuciscus gilli, a new species, col- 
lected in Montana and Wyoming during the summer of 1891 by a Fish 
Commission party under the direction of Prof. B. W. Evermann; col- 
lection of reptiles and batrachians made by Prof. Evermann in Mon- 
tana and Wyoming, in 1891; specimens of fishes representing the fol- 
lowing species : -Lutjanus blaekfordi, Haploidonotus grunniens, Pomn- 
dasys virginicus, JEpinephelus morio, Ictiobtis bubal us, Stoasodon narinari, 
Serranus atrarius, Mentieirrus nebulosus, Cynoscion regale, Clupea haren- 
gus, Merlueius bilinearis, Phycis chuss, Lophopsetta maculata, Uso.r lucius, 
Cottus octodecimspinosus, Pomoxys, Pleuroneetes amerieanus, Roccus chry- 
sops, Roncador stearnsi, Pleuroneetes stellatus, Ophiodon elongatus, Mie- 
ropterus dolomieu, Lampris luna, Phycis, Brosmius brosme, Pleuroneetes 
amerieanus, Pollaehius carbonarius, Cottus octodecimspinosus, Citharich- 
thys sordidus, Paralichthys ealifornicus, Pleuroneetes stellatus, Psettich- 
thys melanostictus, SebasticMhys auriculatus, Ophiodon elongatus, Raia 
oeellata, Batrachus tau, Gyprinus carpio, Alutera schoepfli, Liostomus 
xanthurus, Pomadasys fulvomaculatus, Onchorhynchus chouicha and Ru- 
vettus temmincMi ; specimen of turtle, Aspidonectes spinifer; specimen 
of tarpon and Logger-head turtle; plants obtained in Alaska during 
the cruise of the steamer Albatross in 1889 and 1890 ; plants from the 
Galapagos Islands, obtained daring the cruise of the steamer Alba- 
tross, under the direction of Prof. Alexander Agassiz ; alcoholic speci- 
mens of birds, reptiles, insects, rocks, birds' nests, and skeletons; col- 
lection of crustaceans, chiefly from the North Pacific Ocean, made by 
the Albatross during the past three or four years; alcoholic speci- 
mens of lizards and shells from Cozumel Island, off the coast of Cen- 
tral America, collected in 1885; skin of coast fox, Urocyon virginianus 
littoral is from Santa Rosa Island, California; collection of lards' skins 
from the Galapagos Islands and Alaska, and birds' eggs from Alaska, 
collected by Mr. C. 11. Townsend, of the steamer Albatross; 117 birds' 
skins from the Galapagos Islands, collected in March and April of 1891 
by the steamer Albatross, under tin; direction of Mr. Townsend, and the 
skin and skull of a brown bear, shot by Mr. Townsend at Port Moller. 

Through Mr. Richard Rathbnn, acting commissioner: Small col- 
lections of crustaceans, chiefly from the dredgings of the steamer Alba- 
tross in the Pacific Ocean, but including a i'ew specimens from the At- 
lantic 



02 KEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

From Mr. W. II. Abbott were received specimens of Corydalus cor- 
nutus and Orthosoma brunneum. 

Dr. Tarletoii H. Bean presented the skin of a red phalarope and a 
turtle. 

From Mr. S. F. Denton was received the skin of a white-bellied sea 
eagle (Haliaetns leucogaster) or an allied species, from Queensland, 
Australia, and a bat, Ve&perugo .serotinus, in flesh. 

Mr. Vinal N. Edwards transmitted a specimen of American scoter 
(Oidemia Americana) from Wood's I loll. Mass. 

Specimens of reptiles and batrachians collected by Prof. B. W. Ever- 
mann during' the fall of 1891 in Missouri and Texas were deposited by 
him. 

From Mr. R. R. Grurley were received specimens of seeds and shells 
from Texas. 

Mr. Richard Rathbun transmitted a small collection of Panopeus 
from Brazil, collected in 1875-'76. 

From William P. Seal were received 3 specimens of American pipit 
(Anthus pensilvanicus) from Alexandria. Va. 

Dr. Hugh M. Smith transmitted 7 specimens of Aeris gryllus, a series 
of 8 human hyoids, a set of human ear bones, and 5 mud puppies (Xcc- 
turus lateralis). 

From Mr. Charles H. Townsend were received 5 skins of Eumetopias 
stelleri and 2 skins of Phoca ritulina, collected near .Monterey, Cal. 

The valuable services of Mr. Richard Rathbun as honorary curator 
of marine invertebrates; Dr. Tarleton H. Bean as honorary curator of 
fishes, and Capt. J. W. Collins as honorary curator of fisheries and 
naval architecture have, through the courtesy of Col. McDonald, U. S. 
Commissioner of Fisheries, been continued. 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. 

From Col. Cecil Clay, were obtained five specimens of woodland 
caribou from Newfoundland. 

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The following contributions have been received from the bureau and 
its officers : 

Through Maj. J. AY. Powell, director: collection of arclueological 
objects and specimens of pottery obtained from a mound near Linville, 
Rockingham County. Va.; .'570 ethnological objects collected by Mr. 
James Mooney from the Kiowa Indians of Oklahoma Territory; collec- 
tion of scrolls of birch-bark and mnemonic songs, collected by Dr. W. -1. 
Hoffman in Minnesota during the years 1887, 1888, 1889, and 1800. re- 
lating to the ritual of the Society of Shamans. 

From Dr. A. S. Oatschet was received a winnowing basket made in 
1X77 by an Indian belonging to the Klamath tribe, southwest Oregon, 
and specimens of Indian food obtained from the same tribe. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT .SECRETARY. 93 

From Mr. II. W. Henshaw was received a valuable set of mounted 
herbarium plants, representing the fauna Quercus, Aster and Solidago 
from the District of Columbia, and a collection of fishes, reptiles, and 
batrachians from Virginia and the District of Columbia. 

Mr. W. H. Holmes transmitted 3 rude implements made from novae 
ulite, obtained from an ancient Indian quarry in Indian Territory. 

From Mr. Cosmos Mindeleff was received a specimen of calcite pseu- 
domorph after glauberite from Rio Verde, Arizona. 

Mr. dames Mooney transmitted ethnological objects obtained from 
the Piute Indians. 

Mrs. M. E. Stevenson presented U fetiches (bear) from New Mexico, 
and deposited I feather-plumes and a stone object obtained from the 
Zuni Indians. 

I .— K X P L( >R AT IONS. 

The collections of the Museum have been very materially increased 
during the year through the cooperation of various collectors, com- 
missioned by the Smithsonian Institution or the Museum, as well as 
through the interest and courtesy of friends of the Museum who have 
voluntarily offered their services in procuring material for the Museum. 
The collections which have resulted from the assistance of these per- 
sons are here referred to. 

Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose contributions to the Museum have for many 
years been so generous and acceptable, has added a very interesting 
and valuable collection chiefly from Kashmir and Baltistan, comprising 
ethnological objects, birds' skins, mammal skins and skulls, and includ- 
ing specimens of the Himalayan ibex and Vigne's sheep. 

From the Department of Agriculture, through Prof. C. V.Riley, 
entomologist, were received .'>.47.'» specimens, representing <>.'>«> species 
of insects, collected by Mr. A. Koebele, during his connection with the 
Death Valley expedition in March and April of 1889. These specimens 
were transferred from the Department of Agriculture to the National 
Museum. 

The Museum has also been the recipient of land and fresh-water 
shells from the same locality, obtained during the same expedition. 

Mr. James E. Benedict, of the National Museum, was engaged in 
an exploring trip in the vicinity of Point Lookout for the purpose of 
obtaining marine invertebrates for the Museum. He was successful 
in his undertaking and added several very interesting specimens to 
the collection. 

Mr. R. M. Bartleman, of the United States legation, Caracas, Vene- 
zuela, expressed his willingness to obtain views for the National Museum. 
and he was accordingly furnished with a photographic out lit for that 
purpose. An interesting series of photographs, representing native 



94 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892. 

scenery and other objects connected with Venezuelan life and the sur- 
rounding country, lias been received from him. 

In the chapter on explorations, contained in the Report of the National 
Museum for 1890, mention was made of an exploring expedition which 
had been sent into the unexplored lands of Africa by the British South 
African Exploring Society. Tins expedition was joined by Mr. William 
Harvey Brown, who was sent out under the auspices of the Smith- 
sonian Institution in connection with the Naval Eclipse Expedition, 
and who had made during the previous year large ami valuable addi- 
tions to the collections of the National Museum. In a letter recently 
received from him he states that he has secured for the Museum natural 
history specimens, including several head of large game from the Urn- 
swezi River. These specimens have not yet been received. The only 
material received from him during the present year are six birds' skins, 
representing lour species from Angola. 

Mr. J. H. Camp, Leopoldville, Congo district, Africa, in a letter dated 
December 1".). 1891, offered to collect natural history specimens for the 
National Museum. A collection of African butterflies, photographs 
of natives, and botanical specimens has been received from him. 

Mr. William Astor Chanler, of New York City, visited the Smithson- 
ian Institution in September, 1891, and kindly offered during his pro- 
posed travels in Africa to make collections for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. His offer was gladly accepted, and the result of his exploration 
in connection with the Institution will be given in a later report. 

The U. S. Fish Commission has transferred several large and inter- 
esting collections to the National Museum during the year. Among 
them are valuable collections of plants from the Galapagos Islands and 
Alaska, collected by the Albatross, under the direction of Prof. Alex- 
ander Agassiz; a collection of birds, rocks, insects, batrachians, birds' 
skeletons and nests, also collected by the steamer Albatross; specimens 
of crustaceans collected by the Albatross in the North Pacific Ocean, 
and birds from the Galapagos Islands obtained by the same steamer, 
under the direction of Mr. Charles H. Townsend. 

The U. S. Geological Survey, has, through its director, Maj. J. W. 
Powell, added largely to the mineral collections of the National Museum, 
as well as by the contributions made by individuals connected with the 
Survey while engaged in field-work in different parts of the country. 

On September 15, 1891, letters of introduction to lames P. Turnbull, 
United States consular agent, San Luis Potosi; Hon. Thomas Ryan, 
Minister to Mexico; Rev. George B. Win ton, and Dr. Pagenstecher 
were given to Mr. P. L. Jouy, of the National Museum, who visited 
Mexico for the purpose of making collections of natural history speci- 
mens for the National Museum. The results of his expedition will be 
recorded in the next Report. 

Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army, while engaged in his work with 
the International Boundary Commission, kindly offered to collect natural 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 95 

history specimens for the National Museum. There have already 
been received from him several very interesting collections, and a full 
report of those not mentioned in the accession list accompanying the 
present Report, will be given in the Report for L893. 
• Mr. George P. Merrill, of the National Museum, engaged in an explor- 
ing expedition through Arizona and New Mexico, and secured for the 
Museum some beautiful specimens of onyx marble and other acceptable 
geological material. In Virginia and adjoining States he also obtained 
interesting ores and marbles. 

Mr. Newhail, of the National Museum, while engaged in held work 
for the Museum, obtained rocks, ores, and conglomerates from Virginia 
and New Jersey. 

Mr. Charles W. Richmond, Department of Agriculture, in a recent 
trip through Guatemala and Nicaragua, by an agreement made with the 
National Museum, secured several large collections of natural history 
specimens. A detailed report of these collections will be found by ref- 
erence to the accession list (Section v), and the material received after 
the close of the present fiscal year will be recorded in the next Report. 

In addition to the collections which have heretofore been received 
from Mr. I. C. Russell, of the U. S. Geological Survey, in connection 
with his explorations in Alaska, he has generously contributed a num- 
ber of ethnological objects, consisting of Eskimo ivory carvings, dishes, 
spoons, pipes, daggers, dolls, trinkets," etc., from the Upper Yukon 
River. 

Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox, U.S. Army, Fort Huachuca, Ariz., has con- 
tinued to transmit specimens for the National Museum from the vicinity 
of Fort Huachuca. Some very rare specimens of reptiles have been 
received from him. 

Mr. Thomas Wilson, curator of Prehistoric Anthropology in the 
National Museum, was present at the opening of the Hopewell mine in 
Chillicothe, Ohio. The objects exhumed consisted of copper spools, 
copper pieces, bones, mica cut into stencils, a broken effigy, boat-shaped 
objects of stone, beads made of bone, and a large number of pearls 
bored or drilled, etc. 

Mr. William S. Yeates, assistant curator of minerals in the National 
Museum, collected specimens in North Carolina, and secured some very 
acceptable minerals and Miocene fossils. 

COLLECTORS' OUTFITS. 

During the fiscal year ending June, 1892, the following collecting 
outfits have been furnished by the Museum: 

L891. 

July .;.— To Dr. J. T. Scoville, Terre Haute, Ind. Copper tanks, 
tank-box, alcohol, etc., to be used in collecting and .pit-serving natural 



!>6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

history specimens for the National Museum. A list of the specimens 

received from him will be found in the accession list (Section v). 

July 13. — To Capt. John G. Bourke, U. S. Army. Fort Ringgold, Tex. 
An outfit for collecting plants. 

July 21.— To Mr. W. W. Roekhill, Berkeley Springs, W. Va., in con- 
nection with his expedition to the Chinese Empire. Collecting imple- 
ments and other apparatus to be used in obtaining specimens for the 
National Museum. 

August 15. — To Mr. James E. Benedict, of the U. S. National Mu- 
seum, in connection with his collecting trip in the vicinity of Point 
Lookout. Necessary outfit for collecting and preserving specimens. 
The collections received from him are referred to in the accession list 
(Section V). 

August 25. — To Mr. R. M. Bartleman, U. S. Legation, Caracas, Ven- 
ezuela. A photographic outfit, to be used in obtaining views for the 
Museum collection. The photographs received from him are referred 
to in the accession list (Section v). 

To Dr. R. R. Gurley, II. S. Pish Commission. Two copper tanks for 
the preservation of natural history specimens for the National Museum. 
Reference to the collections received from him is made in the accession 
list (Section V). 

To Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox, IT. S. Army, Port Huachuca, Ariz. Ap- 
paratus and material for preserving and collecting natural history spec- 
imens. Several collections have been received from him, reference to 
them being made in the accession list (Section v). Other collections 
received from him will be referred to in the accession list of the Mu- 
seum Report for 1893. 

October 1. — To Mr. P. L. Jouy, P. S. National Museum. A very ex- 
tensive collecting outfit, to be used in obtaining and preserving natural 
history specimens during his travels in Mexico. A list of the speci- 
mens obtained by him will appear in the accession list of the Museum 
Report for 1893. 

October 6. — To Mr. Heli Chatelain, consular agent, Loanda, Africa. 
An outfit to be used in collecting and preserving natural history speci- 
mens and other objects for the National Museum. 

Xoreinber 19. — To Mr. R. M. Bartleman, TJ. S. Legation, Caracas, 
Venezuela. Photographic outfit, to be used in obtaining views for the 
National Museum. 

December J <<n<l l',. — To Mr. Charles \Y. Richmond, Department of 
Agriculture. Copper tanks, tank-boxes, alcohol, etc., to be used in 
collecting and preserving natural history specimens for the Museum. 
A very large and interesting collection has been received from Mr. 
lvichmond, obtained from the vicinity of Guatemala, and is referred to 
in the accession list (Section V). 

December 10,— To Mr. Charles T. Simpson, P. S. National Museuum, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 97 

Mason jars, alcohol, net, canvas, etc., t<> be used in collecting and pre- 
serving natural history specimens. 

L893. 

February 9. — To Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, l T . S. Army, Internationa] 
Boundary Commission, El Paso, Tex. A collecting outfit to be used in 
collecting and preserving natural history specimens for the National 
Museum. Reference to a portion of the collections received from him 
will be found in the accession list (section v). Other collections 
which have been received from him will be referred to in the Museum 
Report for LSO.i. 

March 9. — To Mr. Louis Dexter, United States consul, Azores. Tank- 
box, copper tank, alcohol, etc., to be usc(\ for collecting and preserving 
natural history specimens for the National Museum. 

March 24.— To Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox, U. S. Army, Fort Huachuca, 
Ariz. Tank-box, copper tank, alcohol, etc., to be used in collecting and 
preserving natural history specimens for the National Museum. 

March 29. — To Mr. J. H. Camp, Leopoldville, Congo District, Africa. 
Outfit to be used in obtaining and preserving natural history specimens 
for the National Museum. 

May 16. — To Mr. George P. Merrill, TJ. S. National Museum. Copper 
tank, tank-box, and other material necessary to be used in collecting 
and preserving natural history and other specimens for the National 
Museum during his explorations in Arizona and adjoining States. 

June 2. — To Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army, International Boun- 
dary Commission, Deining, JN. Mex. Ammunition, cotton and hemp- 
twine, and other articles for use in collecting and preserving natural 
history and other specimens for the National Museum. 

June 11.— -To Rev. J. A. Potter, Fort Clark, Tex. Two tank-boxes, 
alcohol, paper labels, and other material, required in collecting and pre- 
serving natural history specimens for the National Museum. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 7 



SECTION II. 



REPORTS OF THE CURATORS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 

UPON THE PROGRESS OF THEIR WORK DURING THE 

FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1892. 



yy 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOOY 
IN THE [J. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. L892. 



By Otis T. Mason, Curator. 



During the fiscal year the entire staff of this department has been 
engaged in making preparation for the World's Columbian Exposition. 
The subject of ethnology at Chicago having been placed under the 
charge of Prof. Putnam, of Cambridge, it was necessary to devise some 
scheme by which his operations in the general exhibit should be kept 
separate from that of the Smithsonian Institution in the Government 
building. 

After consideration it was thought best to have the work of the 
Bureau of Ethnology (which is under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution) and that of the Department of Ethnology united. For the 
double purpose of this cooperation and of avoiding conflict with the gen- 
eral exhibit, it was very opportune that the work of Maj. Powell, entitled 
Indian Linguistic Families of America North of Mexico, was completed, 
so that it could be utilized for our purpose. The result of this investi- 
gation is that the tribes of North America have been divided into the 
following linguistic families : Algonquian, Athapascan, Attacapan, Beo- 
thukan, Caddoan, Chimakuan, Chimarikau, Chimmesyan, Chinookan, 
Chitimachan, Chumashan, Coahuiltecan, Copehan, Costanoan, Eski 
mauan, Esselenian, Iroquoian, Kalapooian, Karankawan, Keresan, Kio- 
wan, Kitunahan, Koluschan, Kulanapan, Kusan, Lutuamian, Mariposan, 
Moqueluinnan, Muskhogean, Natchesan, Palaihnihan, Piman, Pujunan, 
Quoratean, Salinan, Salishan, Sastean, Shahaptian, Shoshonean, 
Siouan, Skittagetan, Takilman, Tahoan, Timuquanan, Tonikan, Ton- 
kawan, Uehean, Waiilatpuan, Wakashan, Washoan, Weitspekan, 
Wishoskan, Yakonan, Yanan, Yukian, Yuman, Zuiiian. 

Many of these stocks, whatever may have been their previous his- 
tory, at present include only a few individuals. Indeed a tew of them 
have become extinct, and are known only in the literature of the early 
explorers and missionaries. 

The Chicago Exposition furnishes an excellent opportunity of testing 
the questions — how far language coordinates itself with industries and 
activities as a mark of kinship and race, and how far climate and the 
resources of the earth control the arts and industries of mankind in the 

101 



102 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

sphere of language and race. For the purpose of testing these questions 
thoroughly, the following stocks have been selected: Algonquian, 
Athapascan, Eskimauan, Iroquoian, Kiowan, Koluschan, Muskhogean, 
Piman, Shoshonean, Siouan, and Yunian, in order to emphasize ori- 
ginal influences as affecting activities regardless of stock. 

Southeastern Alaska and British Columbia were chosen as one region, 
northern Colorado, Oregon, and Washington as another, southern Cal- 
ifornia and parts adjacent as a third region, and the Pueblo country as 
a fourth. 

The Algonquian family formerly inhabited the southern and eastern 
drainage of Hudson Pay. Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, the Atlantic 
slope of the United States as far south as the thirty-fifth parallel, the 
regions around lakes Michigan, Hurou, and Superior, and almost the 
entire drainage of the Ohio River. This would give an excellent op- 
portunity of studying the effect of twenty Ave degrees of latitude and 
every variety of elevation, access to inland and salt waters, abundance 
or scarcity of various animal and vegetable productions. The question 
then in this case would be to find out how far uniformity of activities 
had been secured over this wide and varied area by the possession of 
a common language. 

The Iroquoian stock occupied the region around lakes Erie and On- 
tario, and the upper St. Lawrence River. They were also in possession 
of the Susquehanna drainage, the mountainous region of Tennessee, 
Kentucky. Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, and Alabama, with two 
small grants on the Atlantic coast, one in southern Virginia, the other 
in eastern North Carolina. 

The territory of the Muskhogean stock was bounded on the west by 
the Mississippi River, north by the Tennessee River and Cherokee 
Country? south by the Gulf of Mexico, east by the Atlantic Ocean. 
This stock was early visited by Spanish, French, and English explorers, 
and, on account of the advanced civilization of its tribes, has been 
looked upon as furnishing the best explanation of the mode of life among 
the Mound Builders. 

The Siouan stock may be studied with advantage, on account of its 
restriction to the country of the buffalo, extending along the Missis- 
sippi (and particularly the Missouri), on the plains of the great West, 
reaching as far north as Saskatchewan River and as far south as the 
city of Natchez. A narrow strait across the State of Wisconsin, extend- 
ing to Lake Michigan, was occupied by this stock, and some of the 
tribes are known to have lived in the mountains of Virginia and North 
Carolina, above the falls of the rivers running into the Atlantic Ocean. 
The Biloxis of Louisiana belong also to this stock. 

Perhaps the most interesting of all the stocks, as regards geographic 
distribution and the relationship between tribal organization, language, 
and activities, is the Athapascan, occupying the drainage of the Yukon 
River, in Alaska, and the Mackenzie River, in Canada, and extending 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 103 

southward and inland to the upper waters of the Frazer River, in British 
Columbia. They touch the waters of the Pacific at Cook's Inlet, in Alaska, 
and on the coast of northern California and southern Oregon. They 
are also spread out over Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Mexico. 
The distance between the most northern and most southern members 
of this stock is over 40 degrees of latitude. 

The Eskiniauan stock affords an excellent example of a homogeneous 
people, spread out over many thousands of miles in an eastern and west- 
ern direction, but always in an arctic or subarctic environment. In 
this area, however, there is great variety of materials, so that the 
same apparatus appears in one place, made of walrus ivory, in another 
of antlers, in another of driftwood, in another of bone. At the lowest 
points reached by these people may be found implements fashioned from 
the standing trees. Another source of variety in the production of 
this stock is the accessibility of the various regions to the whaling indus- 
try and other forms of trade. In those places from which the trading 
vessel has been excluded, the people are living in unchanged simplicity. 
In other parts where the natives have been in close contact with the 
whites, as in the Russian domain, the acquisition of better tools has 
enabled them to improve remarkably upon their own arts, and this may 
fairly raise the question whether in other parts of North America the 
arts of the aborigines were not bettered by the coming of the superior 
race. 

The Kiowan stock, so far as we can gain auy knowledge of its 
spread historically, was confined to a very narrow area in Wyoming 
and Nebraska. The Kiowas are surrounded by Siouan, Shoshonean, 
and western Algonquian tribes; furthermore, since their home is on the 
plains of the great West, the buffalo country, their arts may be expected 
to resemble those of the surrounding peoples. 

The Shoshoneau stock, joined by Brinton and others with the Piman 
stock and the Aztecan, is confined chiefly to the Great Interior Basin, 
with outlying tribes in and across the mountain east and west. In one 
place, at the Moki villages, we have an example of Shoshoneans living 
in pueblos; all of the other tribes are dwellers in tents. 

The Pueblo country furnishes an excellent example of the mode 
of architecture and life controlled by the region, and dominating 
over both language aud tribal organization. In the open country 
among these Pueblos dwell the Apache and Navajo, of Athapascan 
stock, and late intruders from the north. These two peoples of the 
same family differ very much in ail the arts of life, because the former, 
refusing to receive flocks from the Spaniards, have continued their 
course as bloodthirsty savages down to the present moment. On the 
other hand, the Navajo, accepting flocks of sheep from the Spanish 
explorers, have learned the value of personal and tribal property, and 
have changed their mode of life and their industries altogether in ac- 
cordance with the new state of affairs. 



104 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Around the Gulf of California are the Piman and Yuman stocks, 
and these, owing to their homogeneous environment, furnish better 
materia] for the student of comparative ethnology. 

In exhibiting material from the Pacific slope, owing to the great 
variety of stocks crowded in circumscribed areas, the study was made 
of special regions offering natural conditions. Between Vancouver 
Island and Mount St. Elias is a vast forest region, the waters abound- 
ing in fish. Here are the Koluschan, Chimmessyan, Skittagetan, and 
Wakashan stocks, and their homogeneous environment enables the 
ethnologist to study the diversities of tribes and stock, so far as they 
are expressed in natural things. 

The Salishan and Shahaptian stocks together occupy the drainage of 
the Lower Prazer and Columbia rivers and could easily be considered 
apart. But from the mouth of Columbia River to the Santa- Barbara 
Islands there is such a confusion of languages that we should hardly 
expect to find a new set of activities corresponding to each one of 
them. 

The effort was made during the year to set up in proper costume 
groups of men, women, and children belonging to the largest of these 
stocks, engaged in some characteristic operation, so as to give to the 
visitors to the exhibition some idea of how the people would look in 
their homes. In addition to this, an arrangement was made for a series 
of alcoves, each one devoted to a separate stock. The objects were to be 
arranged in these alcoves to show the habitation, industries, and activ- 
ities of the tribes belonging to the several stocks. Supplementary to 
this, a series of alcoves was devoted to characteristic arts, and in these 
the materials, apparatus, and products of each art were arranged upon 
an ethnographic basis, enabling the beholder to compare tribe with 
tribe upon the basis of a single industry. 

Inasmuch as a large amount of American aboriginal handiwork is 
made by women, it has been thought advisable to devote one alcove 
exclusively to woman's work. The object of this is especially to show 
that the seeds of our modern industrial life were sown by women in 
savagery. Whether we regard the exploitation of the earth for min- 
erals in the shape of day for pottery or materials for cooking vessels 
and cutlery, the gleaning of the fields and forests for plants to be 
worked up into food and textile, or the manipulation of animal sub- 
stances of food, shelter, clothing or useful apparatus, the result is the 
same. It has been decided to exhibit these results in an alcove espe- 
cially set apart for women's work. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The following accessions, made during the year, deserve special men- 
tion : 

Asa result of the patenl congress, Miss Nellie Long Maynard loaned to the Na- 
tional Museum, through Mr. George W. Maynard, the collection <>t' models and fire- 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 105 

arms illustrative of the invention of the Maynard rifle. This deposit, in connection 
with that of Col. Dodge, secures to the Museum a most creditable series of breech- 
loading firearms. 

From the Cocopa, Yaki, Yuma, Papago, and other tribes of Sonora, Mexico, and 
Lower California, Mr. Edward Palmer collected for the Museum objects illustrating 
the industries of these tribes. The specimens in this collection are of the greatest 
value because they were selected in order to illustrate the humble industries of 
these tribes. 

The Icelandic Natural History Society made a contribution of clothing and house- 
hold utensils from that island. 

The musical instruments of the Samoan Islands were contributed by Hon. Howard 
M. Sew all. 

From Torres Straits Mr. A. C. Haddon sent a collection of eighty-three pieces il- 
lustrating the arts and life of the natives of that region. They are especially in- 
teresting on account of the contact at this point between the Papuan and Austra- 
lians. 

Capt. J. O. Spicer, of Groton, Conn., has added one more to the many obligations 
under which the Museum has been brought by his generosity in giving specimens of 
Eskimo clothing from Hudson Bay. 

Hon. Alex. R. Webb, consul to the Philippine Islands, collected apparatus for 
games and gambling. 

The collection of 372 pieces of Mr. James Mooney from Kiowa, Cheyenne, and 
Arapaho, Comanche, Sioux, and Wichita Indians was made with a view to illustrat- 
ing the life of these tribes at the Chicago Exposition. Therefore they are of special 
value for ethnographic study. 

Capt. John G. Bourke continued to manifest his interest in the Museum and sent 
from Mexico objects of very great value. 

Dr. W. J. Hoffman, for the Bureau of Ethnology, made a collection among the 
Ojibwa and Menomonee Indians. 

Mr. K. W. Bartleman, 1'nited States legation, Caracas, Yenezuela, has taken a 
special interest in the National Museum, and sent valuable material from that coun- 
try. 

Mr. Emile Granier contributed costumes and industrial implements from the Arap- 
ahos and Shoshones. 

The Museum was very fortunate to secure from the Royal Zoological Museum, 
Florence, through Mr. H. H. Giglioli, ethnological specimens from New Guinea, 
Andaman Islands, and from several groups in the Molgave and Melanesian area. 

Miss Anna Picher, of Pasadena, CaL, contributed specimens of Mexican handiwork. 

Dr. Z. T. Danie', F. S. Army, continued to favor the Museum with specimens from 
Dakota. 

Mr. S. <i. Worth, U. S. Fish Commission, contributed apparatus to illustrate the 
turpentine industry of North Carolina. 

Mr. Fred. A. Ober sent from various islands of the West Indies rude appliances in 
vogue among the more ignorant peoples. 

Lieut. George Emmons, U. S. Navy, sent to the Museum a number of bracelets of 
great value from Sitka. 

Through Hon. Rounsevelle Wildman, United States consul at Singapore, the Mu- 
seum received a small number of weapons and apparatus for gaming. 

Dr. Washington Matthews made a collection of Navajo wools and the material 
used in dyeing them. 

Dr. W. H. Dall gave to the Museum collections made in India by his lather, Rev. 
C.H. Dall. 

The Museum is greatly indebted to Mr. I. ('. Russell for 171 specimens collected 
during his exploration of interior Alaska. 

Dr. ('. E. Woodruff, U. S. Army, contributed 'M photos of llupa Indians in Cali- 
fornia. 



106 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

From Mr. H. R. Thornton the Museum secured a complete suit of armor made in 
imitation of that of Japan from plate of walrus ivory. 

A collection of ethnological objects from the Montagnais Indians of Labrador was 
presented by Mr. Henry U. Grant. 

Lieut. G. B. Harber, U. S. Navy, presented a costly and beautiful series of fine, cloth- 
ing from the Yokui of North .Siberia. Additional value is given this collection by 
the fact that these costumes were worn by Lieut. Harber and members of his party 
during the Jeannette relief expedition. 

Ur. J. Walter Fewkes presented to the Museum illustrations of Mold dances and 
rendered good service in labeling many of the specimens collected already in the 
Museum from ancient Tusayan. 

Dr. Franz Boas brought from the Chinuk tribes of Washington Territory a small 
collection. 

FromCapt. R. H. Pratt, U. S. Army, the Museum has received a large collection from 
various Indian tribes represented by the children at Carlisle school. 

From Mr. Charles de Struve the Museum received 39 portraits of the people of 
Russia. 

Mr. John Murdoch gave a small collection of Eskimo clothing personally made by 
him at Point Barrow, Alaska. 

The Museum received a great many favors from Mr. Stuart Culin, of Philadelphia, 
who has familiarized himself with the games of the Chinese. 

Mr. J. H. Turuer, of the U. S. Coast Survey, gave the Museum 277 specimens col- 
lected on the boundary line between Alaska and Canada. 

Dr. R. H. Lamborn, of Philadelphia, has loaned to the Museum a collection of 
Galton's anthropometric apparatus. 

Mr. Edward Lovett, of Croydon, England, has continued to enrich the Museum 
with specimens from the East. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

The routine work of the department of ethnology during- the fiscal 
year was greatly aided by the construction of a large cabinet for the 
study series of objects and the setting apart of a special room for 
specimens too large for the ordinary cabinet. Owing to the lack of 
space it will be impossible in the future to increase the number of ob- 
jects on exhibition at any one time. To meet the difficulty, and also to 
prepare for any additional space which maybe granted in the future to 
this department, the curator has continued to mount and label new 
specimens in standard unit boxes. The boxes compare in size to the 
standard Museum drawers, viz : 30 inches in length by 24 inches in 
width, and of any depth to suit specimens from 2 to 12 inches. When 
once the specimens are mounted and labeled and sealed up in these ex- 
hibition boxes, these may be filed away on shelves or racks like books 
in a library. 

The curator has had a large number of drawings made and has pre- 
pared the library material for a monograph on the arts of war among 
the North American aborigines. Mr. Walter Hough has bestowed a 
great deal of care on the preparation of a catalogue of the Korean col- 
lection,* which has been brought together through the cooperation of 



See Report of U. S. National Museum, 1891, pp. 429-488. 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 107 

Dr. Allen, Ensign Bernadon, U. S. 1ST., Mr. P. L. Jouy, and others in- 
terested in the work of the National Museum. 

In conclusion the curator most earnestly hopes that in future more 
ample accommodations may be furnished for the exhibition of the 
ethnological collections. The object of all such exhibits should be the 
education of the people in the history of culture, but a comprehensive 
and correct idea of human progress can be given only where there is 
sufficient room to tell the whole story without crowding. 

The first catalogue entry in July, 1891, was 152651, and the last 
entry in June, 1892, was 153894, giving a total of 1,243 entries. 

The number of specimens received during the year is 2,241. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN ABORIGINAL POTTERY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By William H. Holmks, Honorary Curator. 



The operations in this department have been chiefly confined to the 
instalment of a large number of collections, none of which are of espe- 
cial importance. These collections consisted for the most part of frag- 
mentary wares collected for the Bureau of Ethnology by the curator 
and his assistants in the tide-water districts of Maryland and Virginia, 
and in the Gila valley, Arizona. 

Daring the year the curator completed an elaborate paper upon the 
pottery of the mound-builders, to be published by the Bureau of Eth- 
nology. Two papers upon aboriginal decorative art, derived from 
ceramic sources, were published in the " American Anthropologist," 
one in the January and the other in the April number. 

The last catalogue number for June, 1801, is 136183; and tor June, 
1892, 155306. 

Donations of earthenware were made by the following persons: Mr. 
Samuel A. L. Queredo presented fragments of painted pottery from the 
Argentine Republic, South America. Mr. W. Hallet Phillips trans- 
mitted fragments of vases from Ossabaw Island, Georgia. Mr. William 
Harden contributed a large earthen vessel from Ossabaw Island, 
Georgia. Prof. G. K. Gilbert, of the U. S. Geological Survey, presented 
fragments of ancient pueblo ware from Arizona. Mr. Henry Adams 
sent fragments of pottery from St. Helena Island, Georgia. Capt. John 
G. Bourke, U. S. Army, transmitted earthen vessels from Guadalajara, 
Mexico. Mr. Arthur H. Weston gave fragments of pottery from Florida. 
Thomas Dowling, jr., contributed fragments of pottery from Montgom- 
ery County, Md. From Mr. E. S. Golson were received fragments of 

pottery from Saginaw River, Michigan. 

109 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF ORIENTAL ANTIQUITIES 
IN THE U, S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Cyrus Adlek, Assistant Curator, 



111 the absence in Europe of Prof. Paul Haupt, honorary curator of 
the section, I beg to submit the following- report for the past year: 

Tbe scope of an oriental department fully organized may be seen 
from the division into sections which was adopted by a committee of 
the American Oriental Society, organized tor the purpose of drawing 
up a programme to be submitted in the event of the assembling of an 
International Congress of Orientalists in America. The sections were 
as follows: 

I. Aryan section. II. Semitic section (Hebrew, Arabic, Syriac, 
etc.). HI. Cuneiform section, including all languages using cuneiform 
characters. IV. Egyptian section, comprising the other African lan- 
guages with the exception of Ethiopic and Arabic. V. Section of the 
extreme Orient (China and Japan) and of Central Asia. 

The Section of Oriental Antiquities, in view of the limitations upon 
its scope and resources, is practically devoted to Biblical archaeology, 
to the archaeology, history, languages, arts, and religions of the peo- 
ples of western Asia and Egypt. Material is chosen which especially 
illustrates Biblical history, and labels are prepared from this point of 
view. 

The fact must be emphasized that before the organization of this sec- 
tion was contemplated, much of the material which would find place in 
a department of oriental antiquities had been collected for the Museum 
and installed in other departments, where it still remains. 

In the report for 1880 the hope was expressed that from the policy 
inaugurated by the Museum of preparing copies of A ssyro-Baby Ionian 
objects for a study collection, there would grow a catalogue of all the 
Assyro-Babylonian objects in this country. This plan, it is expected, 
may shortly be realized. At the meeting of the American Oriental 

111 



112 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Society held in Washington in April, 1892, the following resolution was 
adopted : 

In view of the introduction into this country of numerous collections of oriental 
antiquities, especially from Egypt, Assyria, and Babylonia, 

Resolved f. That the Oriental Society recommends that records he obtained of such 
objects, in Uotli public and private collections; 

Resolved II. That a committee of three be appointed by the president t<> aid in 
securing such material. 

The assistant curator was appointed a member of this committee. 

The American Oriental Society held its annual meeting in the chapel 
ofthe Smithsonian Institution, April 21-23. A portion of the Hodg- 
son collection of oriental MSS., and of photographs of Assyrian ob- 
jects and of paper impressions of Egyptian sculpture, was tempo- 
rarily placed on exhibition in the chapel during- the meeting. 

Mr. % Frederick Stearns has offered to place his collection of Babylo- 
nian cylinders and other oriental objects of glyptic art at the disposal 
ofthe Museum for copy. 

The honorary curator, Prof. Paul Haupt, left for Europe in themonth 
of May. Me will attend the Ninth International ( !ongress of Oriental- 
ists at London as the delegate ofthe Smithsonian Institution. 

The assistant curator returned from Ids absence in the Orient in the 
interest ofthe World's Columbian Exposition in the month of January, 
and resumed his connection with the Museum on March 1. Much of 
his time has been given to the formation of a collection of religious cer- 
emonials for the exhibit of the National Museum at the Columbian 
Exposition. 

Two very carefully made and well preserved paper molds of a piece 
of sculpture and a cuneiform inscription from Persepolis have been 
received, through the I >epartmentof State, from the Honorable Truxton 
Beale, United States minister at Teheran. Casts have been made from 
these molds and their contents will be described in a special paper. 

Mr. Beale had secured permission from the Persian Government to 
remove some objects from Persepolis. On arriving at the spot he con- 
cluded that nothing characteristic could be removed without grossly 
disfiguring the ruins. He found also that Mr. Herbert Weld Bluu- 
dell had already commenced to make copies for the British Museum, 
but was quite willing that the National Museum should cooperate in 
the work. These two moldings, the first made, were presented by 
Mr. Blundell to Mr. Beale. It appears that the mold ofthe cuneiform 
inscription is the first ever taken from Persepolis. It is to be hoped 
that means will be found to prosecute this important archaeological 
undertaking. 

The Museum has received on deposit from the Telfair Academy of 
Arts and Sciences, of Savannah, Ga., a portion of the collection of 
oriental books and manuscripts ofthe late William B. Hodgson. Mr. 
Carl L. Brandt, director of the Telfair Academy, is entitled to hearty 



SECTION OF ORIENTAL ANTIQUITIES. 113 

recognition for his assistance in securing the deposit of this interest 
iug collection. 

The crowded state of the Museum has rendered it impossible to place 
anymore objects in the exhibition series. 

Two papers, relating to the Hodgson collection, were read by Dr. 
Adler before the American Oriental Society at the meeting held in 
Washington: "Notes on William B. Hodgson"' and k > Christopher 
Columbus in oriental literature with special reference to a Turkish 
MS." 

The catalogue of the section is kept by the department Of ethnology, 
H. Mis. 1U, pt L' 8 



REPORT ON THE HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



A. Howard Clark, curator. 



The curator of historical collections, being also editor of the Pro- 
ceedings ami Bulletin, and in charge of the printing of labels and 

blanks for all departments of the Museum, has been unable to give as 
much attention as desired to the general work on the very valuable 
collection of objects classified as " historical relics," and which are of 
very great interest to the numerous visitors to the National Museum. 

An effort has been made to place on exhibition relics or memorials 
that may teach biography or American history in an intelligent man- 
ner, rather than to exhibit objects that are simply "curios," bearing no 
special relation to eminent men or important events. 

Being without the aid of an experienced assistant, the curator is 
unable to report much technical work accomplished in the study and 
arrangement of the hundreds of medals and coins that have accumu- 
lated. In fact, the incomplete condition of several classes of objects on 
exhibition, as regards proper labeling and installation, has necessitated 
the temporary withdrawal of some of the most interesting collections. 

For exhibition at the Columbian Historical Exposition at Madrid in 
the summer and fall of 1892, the curator brought together quite a full 
series of American colonial coins; medals illustrating the colonial 
period, the Revolutionary War, and medals commemorative of political 
and civic events, besides a large series of paper money, extending from 
the early days of the American colonies down to the present national 
currency; also postage stamps of each issue since 1847, when they 
were introduced in this country; maps of early explorers, engravings 
of important national events, etc. 

The character of the historical collections in the National Museum 
was outlined in the curator's report for the last fiscal year, and an effort 
has been made to carry out the plan therein set forth. Some valuable 
additions have been made to the collections. The number of accessions 
has been thirty-three, aggregating several hundreds of individual 

115 



116 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

objects. Among the import ant accessions were the cabinet of ancient 
and modern gold, silver, and copper coins, antique sc;ils, etc., bequeathed 
by Gen. Meigs; the Cox memorial vase from Mrs. S. S. Cox; the Sevres 
vase presented to Prof. Hilgard, some autograph papers by President 
Adams and William Henry Harrison, the original roll and muster of 
Gen. Washington's body guard in 178l\ a disb and ewer of precious 
metals presented to Admiral Jouett, and a complete collection of photo- 
graphic and engraved portraits and autograph letters of members of 
the National Academy of Sciences. 

The curator has been called upon to examine and report on ten col 
lections of coins, medals, and historic objects, which have been returned 
to the owners. 

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,1892. 

A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. Haytien copper coin. (Ace. 24529. ) 

Dr. Clarence W. Bowen, New York City. Programmes, circulars, invitations, cards, 
and other official papers relating to the centennial celebration of Washington's in- 
auguration in New York ( 'ity, April 30, 1789-1889. (Ace. 24551.) 

Weil Brothers, Alexandria, Va. Spanish coin of the year 1781. (Aec. 21599. ) 

T. G. Fillette, U. S. Navy, Washington City. Cane of palm wood, the handle a wild 
hoar's tusk, gold mounted, presented to Lieut. Fillette by His Majesty Kalakaua. 
King of the Hawaiian Islands. (Ace. 21660.) 

Win. V. Kramer, Washington City. Copper coin, 2^ cent, of Dntch East Indies, 
1S.">S, and copper coin, 1 cent, of British North Borneo Company. (Aec. 24661.) 

Paul Beckwith, Washington City. Photograph from pencil sketch (made by Col. 
R6ne" Paul) of first residence built in the city of St. Louis, Mo., February 10, 1764. 
(Ace. 21721.) 

John F. Kelly, Washington City. Police baton carried by the auxiliary guard, a 
night police force of Washington, D. C, prior to 1861. (Ace. 24817. ) 

Paul Beckwith, Washington City. Jubilee medal of Pope Leo XIII, issued on the 
fiftieth anniversary of his episcopacy. (Ace. 24831. | 

James J. Clark, Troy, N. Y\ Small box made from portion of tree in Scotland 
under which Sir William Wallace hid himself in the xinth century. (Ace. 21883.) 

George E. Muzzey, Lexington. Mass. Silver medal of the centennial celebration 
of the battle of Lexington, April 19, 1775-1875. ( Ace. 24958.) 

B.H.Hall, Washington City. The Kearney cross, bronze, Birney's Division, one 
of the thousand decorations given by Gen. Birncy. in 1862-'63, to soldiers under his 
command for bravery. ( Ace. 21966.) 

Mrs. W.N. Callender, Greenbush, N. Y. Hand-made shingle from original portion 
of Van Rensselaer house, built in 1642. (Ace. 24967.) 

Henry Saudham, Boston, Mass. Gravure etching proof of the reproduction of oil 
painting, Battle of Lexington (original by Mr. Sandham), in town hall at Lexing- 
ton, Mass. (Aec. 25018.) 

W. N. Callender, Greenbush, N. Y T . Stone porthole from the Van Rensselaer man- 
sion, built at Greenbush in 1612. (Aec. 25051.) 

B. T. Nash, Syracuse, N. Y. Cap worn by Nathan Ives during naval engagement 
between the Kearsarge and the Alabama; also knife sheath and sailor's palm owned 
by Seaman Ives. (Ace. 25148.) 

Mrs. J. E. Hilgard, Washington City. Sevres vase presented to Prof. Hilgard by 
the French Government. (Ace. 25172.) 

Joseph Francis, Minneapolis, Minn. Silver medal presented to Mr. Francis on 
occasion of a celebration on Lake Lucerne. 



HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 117 

Gen. M. C. Meigs, U. S. Army. Seven water-color sketches of views in Washington 
City. 

Executors of estate of Gen. M. C. Meigs. U. S. Arjiy. Antique seal ring with 
intaglio portrait of Julius Caesar, signet ring of bronze with stone engraved intaglio, 
cabinet of ancient and modern gold, silver, and copper coins, medals, etc. ; silver 
tureen presented to Gen. Meigs by citizens of Washington; silver tea-kettle pre- 
sented to Commodore Rodgers by citizens of Baltimore for saving the city from 
British capture during war of 1812-T5, and other objects bequeathed by Gen. Meigs 
to the National Museum. (Ace. 25386.) Also, large collection of maps, architectural, 
engineering, and monumental engravings, photographs, scrapbooks, etc., collected 
by Gen. Meigs. 

Mrs. S. S. Cox, New York City. Memorial vase presented to Mrs. Cox by the mem- 
bers of the Life-Saving Service of the United States in commemorat ion of the services 
of the late Hon. S. S. Cox. 

Mrs. Charles L. Brace, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. Silver medal presented in 1877 by 
Kine- Victor Emmanuel to the late Charles L. Brace for his labors among the Italian 
children in New York City. (Ace. 25476. ) 

A. F. Wooster, Norfolk, Conn. French copper coin. (Ace. 25185.) 

J. H. McCreery, Oceanport, X. J. Portion of foundation of Quaker Church, built 
in 1727 in Burlington County, N. .1. (Ace. 25543.) 

Mrs. Matthias Denman Wilbur, Newark, X. J. Military land patent signed by 
John Adams, President of the United States, and dated at Philadelphia, March 28, 
1X00, granting 4,000 acres in Northwest Territory to Matthias Denman. (Ace. 25551.) 

Miss Charlotte 1). Wilbur, Newark, X. J. Autograph receipt from William Henry 
Harrison, clerk of the Northwest Territory, to Matthias Denman, dated May 21, 
1800, indorsed by John Cleves Symmes. (Ace. 25552.) 

Mrs. Theodore W. Parinele, New York City. Historical chart of the United States. 
(Ace. 25558.) 

Romyn Hitchcock, Washington City. Six copies of the Peking Gazette, the 
oldest newspaper in the world, published daily in Peking, China. (Ace. 25569.) 

.John C. Bird, St. Louis, Mo. Flint-lock, breech-loading musket, with silver plate 
inscribed: " By resolve of Congress presented to Gustavus A. Bird for gallantry at 
battle of Pittsburgh." (Ace. 25598.) 

Capt. James M. Miller, Washington City. Original roll and muster of the Com- 
mander-in-Chief's (Gen. Washington's) Guard for the month of .Inly. 17*2, certified 
by Win. Colfax, Lieutenant in command: also testimonial to good service and char- 
acter of de Arendt. (Ace. 25672.) 

Admiral J. E. Jouett, F. S. Navy, and Mrs. Jouett, Washington City. Dish and 
ewer of " precious metals," presented to Admiral Jouett for services in saving from 
shipwreck the British steamship Hisloi'ian in the Caribbean Sea in 1885. (Ace. 
25679.) 

R. W. Turner, U. S. consul at Cadiz, Spain. Wooden door formerly used in the 
convent of La Rabida at Palos, Spain. (Ace. 25681.) 

Mrs. James C. Booth, Haverford, Pa. Platinotype portrait of Prof. James C. 
Booth, Ph. D., LL. D., late inciter and refiner of the United States mint at Philadel- 
phia. (Ace. 25785.) 

Dr. Marcus Benjamin, New York City. Complete collection of photographic or 
engraved portraits, and autograph letters of members of the National Academy of 
Science. 

AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION. 

As in previous years, the annual meeting - of the American Historical 
Association was held in the lecture hall of the National Museum during 
the Christmas holidays, when the curator of historical collections pre- 



118 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

pared a special exhibit of documents and relics pertaining to American 
history. 

Under the act of incorporation the association deposits its collections 
in the National Museum. During - this fiscal year there have been re- 
ceived for storage several thousand volumes and pamphlets published 
by the association since its organization in ISSi, besides a consider- 
able number of books and pamphlets presented to the association and 
forming the nucleus of a historical library. 

The programme of the annual meeting held December 29-31, 1891, 
was as follows: 

Inaugural Address. By Hou. William Wirt Henry, of Richmond, Va., President 
of the association. 

The Virginia Secession Movement. The Convention of 1861. By Dr. Jeffrey R. 
Brackett, of Baltimore. 

A Few Facts from the Records of an Old Virginia County. By President Lyon G. 
Tyler, of William and Mary College 

The Earliest Texas. By Mrs. Lee C. Harhy, of New York City. 

Henry Clay, the First Political Speaker of the House. By Miss Mary Parker 
Follett, Harvard "Annex." 

Gov. William Leete and the Absorption of New Haven Colony by Connecticut. By 
Dr. B. C. Steiner, Williams College, Massachusetts. 

Lord Lovelace. By Gen. James Grant Wilson, president, New York Genealogical 
and Biographical Society. 

Once Famous Louisbourg and Memorials of the French Regime in Cape Breton. 
By J.,G. Bourinot, C. M. G., LL. D., D. C. L., Ottawa, Canada, 

Enforcement of the Slave Trade Laws. By W. E. B. Du Bois, A. M., Rogers 
Memorial Fellow, Harvard University. 

Lotteries in American History. By Hou, A. R. Spofford, Librarian of Congress, 
Washington, 1). C. 

Some Characteristics of Boston Puritans. By Prof. Barrett Wendell, of Harvard 
University. 

Parliamentary Government in Canada. By J. G. Bourinot, C. M. G., LL. D., 
I). C. L., Ottawa, Canada. 

Slavery in the Territories, Historically Considered. By President James C. Well- 
ing, of the Colnmbian University, Washington, 1). C. 

Historic Portraits of Benjamin Franklin. Illustrated. By Clarence Winthrop 
Bowen, Ph. D., New York. 

The History of the Irish Land Legislation. By Prof. William A. Dunning, of Co- 
lumbia College, New York City. 

Phenomena of Universal Suffrage. By Brooks Adams, Quincy, Mass. 

The Treaty-Making Power under the Constitution. By Judge Charles B. Elliott, 
Ph. D., Law School, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. 

The United States and International Arbitrations. By Prof. John Bassett Moore, 
of Columbia College, New York City. 

Visitorial Statutes of Audover Seminary. By Prof. Simeon E. Baldwin, law de- 
partment, Yale University. 

State Sovereignty in Wisconsin. By Albert H. Sanford,, B. L. of the University 
of Wisconsin. (To be read by Prof. C. H. Haskius.) 

Commerce and Industry of Florence during the Renaissance. By Dr. Walter B. 
Scaife, Pittsburg, Pa. 

The Present Status of the Subject of pre-Columbian Discovery by the Norsemen. 
By James Phinney Baxter, esq., Portland, Me. 



HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 119 

The History and Determination of the Line of Demarcation established by Pope 
Alexander VI between the Spanish and Portuguese Fields of Discovery and Colo- 
nization. By Prof. Edward G. Bourne, Adelbert College, Cleveland. 

Recent Discoveries concerning Columbus. By President C. K. Adams, of Cornell 
University. 

The Annual Report of the Association for 1890 was transmitted to 
Congress by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in February, 
1891, but was not printed until the present fiscal year. It is an octavo 
volume of 310 pages, the contents being as follows: 

Report of proceedings at seventh animal meeting, held in Washington, D. ('., 
December 29-31, 1890. 

Inaugural address of John Jay, president of the association: The Demand for 
Education in American History. 

I.— Canadian History. 

Canada and the United States from Historical Points of View. By J. G. Bourinot. 
New England Settlements in Acadia. By Benjamin Rand. 

The Legislative Work of the First Parliament of Upper Canada. By William 
Houston. 

II.— European History. 

The Fate of Dietrich Flade. By Prof. George L. Burr. 

Theory of Village Community. By Dr. Charles M. Andrews. 

A Plea for Reform in the Study of Municipal History. By Dr. George Gross. 

Mirabeau's Speech of May 20. By Freeman M. Fling. 

The Formation of the French Constitution. By Adolphe Colin. 

Karl Follen and the Liberal Movement in Germany. By Prof. Kuno Francke. 

Bismarck the Typical German. By William G. Taylor. 

III. — American Constitutional History. 

How the Written Ballot came into the United States. By Douglass Campbell. 
A Virginia Bill of Attainder, the Case of Josiah Phillips. By Prof. William P. 
Trent. 
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States. By Herman V. Ames. 
Congressional Demands upon the Executive for Information. By E. C. Mason. 
Responsible Government in Canada. By J. G. Bourinot. 
Bills of Rights in State Constitutions. By Gen. R. D. Mussey. 

IV. — American Economic History. 

The Historical Development of the Budget of the United States. By Ephraim D. 
Adiiins. 

The Yazoo Land Companies. By Dr. Charles H. Haskins. 

State Articles and Politics. By William V. Willoughby. 

Slavery in New York. By Edwin Vernon Morgan. 

Slavery in the District of Columbia. By Mary Tremain. 

Remarks by William Birney on Miss Tremain's paper, "Slavery in the District of 
Columbia." 

V.— American History— Historical Science. 

Raleigh's Settlements on Roanoke Island. By Dr. Stephen B. Weeks. 
The Political Ideas of the Puritans. By Dr. Herbert L. Osgood. 
State Historical Societies. By Gen. C. W. Darling. 
Organization of Historical Material. By W. H. Mace. 



120 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Is History ;i Science.' By Prof. R. H. Dabney. 

Webster's Seventh of March Speech. By James Sehouler. 

The Borderland between the Historian and the Archaeologist. By Prof. Otis T. 

Ma sou. 

Bibliography <>f the Writings of the Members of the American Historical Association 
for 1890. By Paul Leicester Ford and A. Howard Clark. 

Supplementary Bibliography of the Writings of Members of the American Histori- 
cal Association. By Paul Leicester Ford and A. Howard Clark. 

Bibliography of the Historical Societies of the United States. By A. P. C. Griffin. 
Part I. 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF GRAPHIC ARTS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By S. R. Koehler, Curator. 



Repeating the words of my report for last year, it may be said that 
the work done in the section of graphic arts during the fiscal year just 
ended, does not show perceptibly in the appearance of the collections 
exhibited. The aim has again been to make the several divisions more 
complete by filling gaps here and there, and these additions are, as a 
matter of course, lost in the mass to the general observer. From the 
following details it will appear that the endeavor to complete the illus- 
tration of the modern photo-mechanical processes has been continued, 
while at. the same time due attention has been given to the other 
departments, so tar as the means at command would allow. 

The most important additions of the year are the illustrations of the 
halftone relief screen process and of a variety of the photo-aquatint 
intaglio process (Photogravure Gilbo), prepared for the Museum at 
reduced prices by Mr. M. Wolfe, of Dayton, Ohio, and Messrs. A. YV. 
Elsou & Co., of Boston, Mass., respectively. Some interesting speci- 
mens, illustrating the advances made in chromocollographic process 
work, have been given by Mr. E. Bierstadt, of New York, and the J. B. 
Lippincott Company, of Philadelphia. The collection of materials 
used in the photo-mechanical processes has been increased by gifts 
from Messrs. Jas. P. Smith & Co., of New York, and by purchase. A 
beginning towards the illustration of the application of chromolitho- 
graphy and of wood-cutting to the production of posters — a kind of 
work which lias reached a high order of merit in the United States — 
has been made by the gift of a few specimens by the A. S. Seer Theat- 
rical Printing Company, of New York; the Courier Lithographing 
Company, of Buffalo, N. Y., aud Messrs. W. J. Morgan & Co., of Cleve- 
land, Ohio, and by the purchase of some of the tools used. The fol- 
lowing additions to the illustrations of the history of the reproductive 
arts have been made by purchase: Head ot Christ, P. 192, woodcut 
after I Mirer; Portrait of Otto Heinrich von Schwarzenberg, woodcut, 
dated 1607, by Chr. vau Sichem, after Goltzms; Christ before Annas, B 
12, engraving on copper by Israel van Meckenem; Portrait of Philip 
II, engraving on copper, dated 1586, by Ilieroiiymiis Wierix; Portrait 

121 



122 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

of Jan Lutma, the younger, by himself, dated 1681, executed on copper 
with punches (opm mallei), the rirst specimen of this kind of work ac- 
quired by the Museum, and a hue proof of J. G. Mailer's portrait of 
Anton Graff, after Graff, engraved on copper. 

The specimens received during the year have mostly been placed on 
exhibition. To accomplish this, part of the division of photo-mechani- 
cal process work had to be rearranged, and a number of table-cases 
had to be placed in the alcoves. These cases interfere somewhat with 
the appearance of, and the freedom of movement in, the alcoves, 1 >ut they 
are excellently well adapted for the display of technical specimens, and 
it is to be hoped, therefore, that more of them will be provided as the 
collections grow and are rearranged. Considerable progress has been 
made iu the labeling, by the substitution of written for printed labels. 
It has been possible in this way to label nearly all the specimens on the 
eastern, and a considerable number of those on the western side of the 
hall of Graphic Arts. It is uow proposed to complete the labeling in 
this manner, leaving the collections for the present in essentially their 
actual condition, with the exception of such additions as it maybe pos- 
sible to make meanwhile. The next step will be the systematic cata- 
loguing of all the material on hand, and the endeavor to procure such 
additional specimens as are needed to complete the various series. 
This done, the whole collection can be rearranged according to the 
catalogue, and a manual of it can be prepared for the use of students. 
The exhibition of The Reproductive Arts, arranged by me at the Mu- 
seum of Fine Arts, Boston, at the beginning of this year (1892), and 
the catalogue prepared for the same exhibition, were preliminary stud- 
ies on the basis of which the more extensive scheme planned for the 
U. S. National Museum is to be carried out. 

No further progress has been made in the arrangement of the collec- 
tion of patents. 

The last number entered on the catalogue of the section of Graphic 
Arts for the year ending June 30, 1891, having been 4797, and the cor- 
responding number for the year now under consideration being 4970, 
it follows that the number of entries during the year has been 179. As 
some few of these entries represent more than one specimen, the num- 
ber of accessions may be given in round numbers at about 200. Of 
these specimens 42 were purchased. A list of the donors is included 
in Section v of the report. No statistics can be given, for the present, 
of the reserve and duplicate series. 

LIST OF ACCESSIONS RECEIVED AS GIFTS DURING THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1892, 
ARRANGED ALPHABETICALLY ACCORDING TO NAMES OF DONORS. 

Avery, S. P., New York. One dry-point by Del&tre. No. 4970. 

Bates, Kimball A Guild, Boston. A series of photo-mechanical reproductions of 

pencil drawings. No. 4839. 
Bierstadt, E'., New York. A set of progressive proofs of a chromocollograph. Nos. 

4799-4805. 



SECTION OF GRAPHIC ARTS. 123 

Courier Lithographing Company, Buffalo, N. V. Lithographic poster. No. 497*5. 
Cross. Prof. Chas. R., Boston, Mass. Heliotype printing til in and impression; spec- 
imens of collographic printing; Woodburytypes. Nos. 4840-4850. 
Crosscup & West, Philadelphia. Specimens of the new Ives process, line and halt- 
tone. Nos. 4851-4871. 
Eweu, Warren, jr. & Co., Chieago, 111. Architectural drawings printed by the 

"Multicolor process." Nos. 4813-4816. 
Goode, Dr. G. Brown, Washington, 1). C. The Analectic Magazine, .July, 1819, with 

two plates; one mezzotint by Pelham ; one engraved copperplate, with an im- 
pression from it. Nos. 4939-4943 ; 4971, 4972. 
Hinds, J. E., Brooklyn, N. Y. Specimens of early American half-tone relief work. 

No. 4935. 
Ives, Fred. E., Philadelphia. Four specimens illustrating the making of plaster casts 

from swelled gelatin reliefs. Nos. 4878-4881. 
James, Joseph F., Washington, D. C. Catalogue of Mosler exhibition. No. 4933. 
Ketterlinus Printing House, Philadelphia. A chromolithographic proof book. No. 

4908. 
Koegler, Franz, Brooklyn, N. Y. Two specimens of photo-mechanical work produced 

with grained screens made by the donor. Nos. 4945, 4946. 
Koehler, S. R., Roxbury, Mass. A scale of tints for reproduction. No. 4820. 
Linton, W. J., New Haven, Conn. Two wood-engravings by the donor. Nos. 

4826, 4827. 
Lippincott Co., The J. B., Philadelphia. One chromolithograph; four chroniocollo- 

graphs. Nos. 4895-4899. 
Morgan, J., & Co., Cleveland, Ohio. Three specimens of chromolithographic poster 

work. Nos. 4973-4975. 
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. Modern impression from a fifteenth century 

wood-block; mold from a gelatin wash-out relief, and cast from same. Nos. 

4812, 4882, 4883. 
Payne, Robert H., Washington, D. C. An enamel picture on glass, by the donor. 

No. 4819. 
Ross, Waldo ()., Boston. Specimens of photo-mechanical process work. Nos. 

4951-4969. 
Rowlands, Walter, Allston, Mass. Specimens of photo-mechanical process work. 

Nos. 4872-4877. 
Seer Theatrical Printing Company, The A. S., New York. Three specimens of poster 

work. Nos. 4921-4923. 
Smith, . las. P., & Co., New York. Specimens of gelatin used for photo-mechanical 

process work. Nos. 4806-4809. 
Snyder, Theo., Brooklyn, N. Y. Specimens of photo-mechanical process work, etc. 

Nos. 4944, 4947-4950. 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF FORESTRY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By I>r. B. E. Fernow, Honorary Curator, 



The forestry collections have remained without many additions, owing 
to the fact that lack of space limits their exhibition, and the bulkiness 
of the material makes it undesirable to add to them in the storage- 
rooms. 

Since the Museum does not, like the Kew Gardens, command any 
grounds of its own for the exhibition of living specimens, and the city 
parks of Washington afford ample opportunity to serve as aii arboretum, 
the curator ot forestry collections has prepared during the year a full 
list, with notes, of all the tree species found in these parks, and plotted 
the same so that they may be readily found. This compilation, car- 
ried on at the expense of the Museum, will be ready for publication next 
year. 

125 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By .1. ELFRETH W ATKINS, Curator, 



During' the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891', the time of the curator 
was largely taken up by assignment to other duties; hence little atten- 
tion could be devoted to the section. 

Unfortunately for the student of the history of the American steam- 
boat and railway, little thought was given in the early days to the 
preservation of objects which would now be considered invaluable 
relics of the early stages of the development of these appliances of 
transportation upon water and land. 

So far as is known, the important relics now in existence, with very 
few exceptions, have been deposited in the TJ. S. National Museum 
through the cooperation of the officials of railway and steamboat com- 
panies. The future additions to the transportation collection must, 
therefore, necessarily consist of models and drawings of historic objects. 
Since the appropriations by Congress did not permit of their construc- 
tion or purchase, extension of the collection during the year has been 
made by the acquisition of such objects relating to the development of 
the mechanic arts as illustrate the evolution of the epoch-making inven- 
tions. 

During the year the curator took part in the meetings* of the Ameri- 
can Association for the Advancement of Science, at Washington; the 
convention of the Old-Time Telegraphers' Association, at Washington, 
and the ceremonies at the completion of the monument erected by the 
Pennsylvania Railroad Company at Bordentown, N. J. 

The erection of this monument (Plate i) by the Pennsylvania Railroad 
Company, to mark the tirst piece of iron railway track laid between 
New York and Philadelphia in 1831, attracted the attention of officials 
and employes of the railway companies throughout this country, and 
the general public as well, and a description thereof found place in the 
principal railroad journals of Europe and America. A description of 



*See Bibliography (Section iv.) 

127 



128 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the monument from the memorial volume issued at the time is given 
below : 

The railroad monument at Bordentown, erected by the Pennsylvania Railroad 
Company, was completed in 1891. It is composed of a cube of Baltimore granite, 5 
feel square and 7 feet high, supported upon an octagonal foundation composed of the 
stone blocks upon which the iron rails were originally laid in the tracks of the Cam- 
den and Amboy Railroad. Around this cube is a circle composed of two of the 
original rails with which the road was first laid. These rails are supported by stone 
blocks according to the original practice, the spikes and joint fixtures also being 
from the original tracks. This type of rails, which is now known throughout the 
world as the "American rail," was designed by Robert L. Stevens in 1831. Sunk in 
the south side of the granite block is a- bronze tablet, which contains a representa- 
tion (carefully drawn to scale), in relief, of the locomotive ''John Bull," with 
tender improvised from a freight truck, with tank consisting of a whisky hogshead, 
and the two passenger cars that first did service in the State of New Jersey in 1831. 

The tablet (Plate ii) contains the following inscription in raised letters: 

"FIRST MOVEMENT BY STEAM ON A RAILROAD IN THE STATE OF NEW 
JERSEY. NOVEMBER ll>, 1831, BY THE ORIGINAL LOCOMOTIVE 'JOHN 
BULL, - NOW DEPOSITED IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 
AT WASHINGTON. THE FIRST PIECE OF RAILROAD TRACK IN NEW JER- 
SEY WAS LAID BY THE CAMDEN AND AMBOY RAILROAD COMPANY BE- 
TWEEN THIS POINT AND THE STONE, THIRTY-FIVE HUNDRED FEET EAST- 
WARD, IN 1831." 

Upon the east side of the block, cut into the granite are the words : 

"CAMDEN AND AMBOY RAILROAD, 1831," 

and on the reverse side is inscribed: 

"ERECTED BY THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY, 1891." 

The programme of the exercises at the celebration of the sixtieth 
anniversary of the first movement by steam in the State of New Jersey, 
which was held at Bordentown, November 12, 1891, was as follows: 

Address of presentation, by Joseph T. Richards, assistant chief engineer, Pennsyl- 
vania, Railroad Company. 

Address of acceptance, by F. Wolcott Jackson, general superintendent. United 
Railroads of New Jersey Division, Pennsylvania Railroad Company. 

Historical address: The Camden and Amboy Railroad — origin and early history — 
by J. Elfreth Watkins, curator, section of transportation and engineering, V. S. 
National Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company has since published the 
addresses delivered at the celebration in a memorial volume, hand- 
somely illustrated. 

Interest in the department of transportation at the World's Colum- 
bian Exposition has led to frequent examinations of the collection dur- 
ing the year, the objects both in the exhibition and study series being 
studied by officials of the Exposition and of several railroad compa- 
nies who propose to take part therein. The chief of the department 
of transportation exhibits of the Columbian Exposition spent several 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Watkins. 



P LATE I. 




SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 129 

days in the Museum, in August, L891, where lie studied the collect ions 
and had access to a provisional outline of a proposed exhibit, which 
had been prepared by the curator at the request of the assistant sec- 
retary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be used if it were decided that 
the section of transportation and engineering should be represented in 
the Government exhibit at Chicago. 

With the return of this scheme of classification the following con; 
muuication was received: 

[Department transportation exhibits— railways, vessels, vehicles— Willard A. Smith, chief.] 

Office of the Director-General, 

World's Columbian Exposition, 
Chicago, III., U. S. A., August 27, 1891. 
Dear Sir: I return herewith a scheme of a transportation exhibit, which you 
kindly loaned to me, and which promises to be of much value. I am greatly obliged 
to you for the favor, as also for the other literature which you kindly gave me. It 
will save a great deal of research which would otherwise have been necessary. 
Yours truly, 

Willard A. Smith. 
Prof. J. E. Watkins, 

National Museum, Washington, !>.<'. 

Access to the study and exhibition series in the section was also 
given to Mai. J- Cr. Pangborn, special agent in charge of the Baltimore 
and Ohio Railroad Company's historical exhibit at the World's Colum- 
bian Exposition. Numerous photographs of models and drawing's in 
the collection were made by Maj. Pangborn's representative for this 
exhibit, which promises to be more elaborate than ever before made at 
an exposition by a railroad company. 

At the request of the chief clerk of the Post-Office Department a 
number of models and drawings in the collection were photographed to 
form the basis of illustrations for a publication which is designed to 
show the growth of the United States Post-Office Department. 

Among the important accessions during the year are the following: 

Electrical locomotive, which made the most rapid recorded speed (11.") to 120 miles 
per hour) on land, by generated power, at Laurel, Md., in the year 1889. Publicly 
reported by O. T. Crosby in his paper entitled High Speed Electrical Works, and 
by .1. Dashiell, jr., in the Electrical Railway as Applied to Steam Roads. Both papers 
are to be found in the proceedings of the American Association of Mechanical Engi- 
neers. 

The following letter accompanied this most interesting piece of machin- 
ery : 

New York, June 13, 1890. 

My Dear Sir: According to your request 1 make the following statement: My 
electric motor was originated and designed by me for rapid speed. I had in view 
the enlargement id' the same to supplant the steam engine on standard railroads for 
long-distance service. 

It was the first electric motor which was successfully run with the armatures 
wound directly around the axles, thereby doing away with all wearing parts except 
the journals, and admitting of any speed desirable. 

H. M is. 114, pt. 2 



130 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

My motor was run near Laurel. Mel., on a circular track, 2 miles in circumference, 
constructed especially for making these experiments, which extended over a period 
of nearly two years, during which time speeds were made from 100 to 120 miles per 
hour. Twenty miles per hour was the fastest speed made by any other electrical 
motor until mine had made 100 miles per hour. 
Yours very truly. 

David (i. Wkems. 
Prof. .1. E. Watkins, 

Washington, I). C. 
The following certificate is attached to the locomotive: 

On December 3, 1889, 1 witnessed Mr. Weems' electric motor make a speed of from 
115 to 120 miles per hour. I was employed by Mr. Weems as mechanical engineer 
for about two years, and assisted in a number of test trials of speed made with the 
motor, and also assisted at the time the above fast rate speed of llo to 120 miles was 
made. 

B. J. Dasiiiell, Jr. 

The collection has been greatly enriched by the addition of the series 
of models, templates, and drawings of the various sections of rails, which 
were considered by '• the committee on form, weight, manufacture, and 
life of rails," appointed by the American Society of Civil Engineers in 
1873, and whose deliberations have had an important bearing upon the 
American rail standards for the last twenty years. This series, which 
is a most valuable one, was presented by Mr. Octave Chanute, past 
president, American Society of Civil Engineers, who was an active 
member of the committee during all its deliberations. 

A series of models of steel railroad cross-ties used in Europe was 
deposited by Dr. B. E. Fernow, of the Division of Forestry in tire Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, who, in his official capacity, is taking tin active 
interest in the introduction of metallic ties upon American railroads, 
in order that the present demands shall not continue to be made upon 
the forests of this country to supply the wants of railroad builders. 

Mr. S. L. Roberts, of the Aniboy Division of the Pennsylvania Rail- 
road, has added to the collection previously deposited by him, a num- 
ber of objects illustrating the development of the rail splice. These 
objects were mainly collected from the old Camden and Amboy Rail- 
road. 

The value of the collection of telegraphic apparatus has been greatly 
enhanced through the enthusiastic cooperation of Mr. George C. May- 
nard, of Washington, secretary of the American Association of Invent- 
ors and Manufacturers. 

During the annual convention of the Old Time Telegraphers' Associ- 
ation their loan collection of telegraph apparatus was, at his sugges- 
tion, placed on exhibition in the section, and attracted much attention. 

Among the important objects since deposited are to be found the 
cross-arm and insulator laid on the line from Washington to Baltimore 
in 1841 ; a register and relay used in the first office opened in Indiana 
in 1848; twisted telegraph wire used in 1864; various forms of earthen- 
ware and glass insulators, and a pair of English dial telegraph instru- 
ments. 



SECTION OF TRANSPORTATION AND ENGINEERING. 131 

The collection showing the development of the typewriting machine 
has received several valuable additions, among them the typewriter in- 
vented by John Pratt in 1S<!4, which was obtained through his kindly 
assistance. 

Messrs. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict have added a Danish writing- 
ball and other old forms of typewriters to their collection, among them 
a model of the Sholes & Glidden typewriter invented in 1807, together 
with the original of one of the first machines made from this model. 

The curator has received Communications from the Caligraph Com- 
pany and Mr. W. H. Travis, of Philadelphia, both of whom promise 
valuable additions to this collection. 

The Singer Manufacturing Company has increased the collection of 
sewing machines referred to in the last report. 

The application of Jesse Ramsden for a patent for an equatorial 
instrument, written and signed by himself, has been presented to the 
Museum by Mr. Park Benjamin and placed in the case with the origi- 
nal dividing engine, deposited a few years since by Dr. Morton, presi- 
dent of Stevens Institute. 

Among the relics, attention may be called to the plaster model from 
which the bronze tablet for the monument erected at Bordentown by 
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company was cast. This model was re- 
ceived through Mr. J. T. Richards. 

A sedan chair, decorated with gold and handsomely upholstered, 
which was owned and used by the royal family of France during the 
reign of Louis XIV, has been deposited in the collection by Miss Kathe- 
rine Parsons, of Washington. 

The recent increase of popular interest in matters relating to the his- 
tory of transportation is most remarkable, while the recognition of the 
importance of illustrating this phase of human effort by the managers 
of American expositions is none the less gratifying. 

At the Centennial Exposition of 187(5 a single old steam locomotive 
and car were exhibited, together with a few implements of transporta- 
tion, shown in the ethnological collection. At New Orleans, ten years 
later, a single railway exhibited a series of models of ancient locomo- 
tives and cars. At Cincinnati, in 1888, the first synoptical exhibit 
showing the development of the art of transportation was made by the 
U. S. National Museum in the Government building, where a very lim- 
ited space could be devoted to the subject. 

At the World's Columbian Exposition, four years later, a handsome 
exhibition building containing 250,000 square feet of floor space has 
been erected, which, together with the annex, occupies an area of over 
17 acres. 

It is indeed a matter of the greatest satisfaction to know that the 
importance of that place in history which is occupied by the record of 
the development of the methods of intercommunication through which 



132 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

our national growth has been so greatly accelerated during the century, 
is thus to receive due recognition. 

The extent of the collection of transportation exhibits, together with 
the publications in relation thereto, can not tail to make a permanent 
and worldwide impression, both upon the visitors who see, and those 
absent who read of their magnitude. 

Thus will the future generations be made to understand the influ- 
ence which the world's great systems of transportation have had upon 
the progress of civilization during the four centuries since Columbus 
sailed away from Palos in a caravel. 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEDTCA 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By William s. Dixon, I . S. Navy, Honorary Curator, 



During the year ending Juno 30, 1892, the labeling of specimens and 
illustrations of plants, etc., in the exhibit was completed. Several 
specimens that had deteriorated were replaced by good examples. 
Efforts were made to identity some of the vegetable specimens presented 
to the Museum. Their accompanying history being meager, and essen- 
tial characteristics absent, a satisfactory recognition was impossible. 

The accessions during the year number 55, and were received princi- 
pally from the Royal Kew Gardens, England. Several specimens were 
received from W. H. Schieffelin & Co., in response to special request. 
The arrangement of this section is, essentially, as left by Dr. Flint, the 
first curator of this collection. 

The following table shows the number of specimens in the various 
scries: 

Kxhiltition series 3,346 

Reserve series ' 1. 223 

Duplicate series 859 

In addition to which there are — 

Colored plates .' 662 

Photographs • 10:' 

I [erharium specimens 60 

Micrographs 38 

862 

(!, 200 

The last catalogue entry in June, 1891, was 142225, and in June, 1892, 

142280. 

133 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Thomas WILSON, Curator. 



GENERAL REVIEW OF THE YEAR'S WORK. 

The general character of the work of the past year is not greatly dif- 
ferent from that of other years. There is the same reception of speci 
mens, their classification, entering, numbering, and cataloguing; they 
then have to be marked and put in the display cases assigned to the 
State to which they belong, or if not classified geographically, among 
other specimens of the same kind. 

The curator was engaged during the first part of the fiscal year upon 
the preparation of a work which he considered was needed in the I Jmted 
States — a gathering or collection of the evidences of high antiquity of 
man in America. Later on, he took up a particular chapter of that 
work, to wit, that on arrow- and spear-heads or knives. Before the lat- 
ter was entirely completed, he was called upon to prepare an exhibit 
for the Exposition Historic©- Americano, held at Madrid,* Spain, in 
celebration of the fourth centenary of the discovery of America by 
Christopher Columbus. 

It was believed that the display made for Madrid could be utilized 
for the Chicago Exposition, and the work thus done in the current year 
would serve equally well for the display to be made in the subsequent 
year, but that hope has not been realized. 

The number of specimens received during the past year is about equal 
to the average of former years, amounting to nearly ten thousand speci- 
mens. 

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR. 

From Dr. Edward Palmer: A collection of objects from an ancient 
Indian village site.'U miles X\V. by N". from Manzanillo, Mexico. A large 
obsidian implement, 3 polished hatchets, a hammer stone, a rubbing 

Mr. Wilson sailed from New York for Madrid on the 27th of July. The exposition 
was to open iu that city on the 13th of September, though it did not actually do so 
until the 30th ofOctoher. It closed on the 1st of February, and the display has not 
returned at the time of writing this report, although Mr. Wilson did not remain dur- 
ing the entire period of the exposition. 

135 



13(1 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

stone, fragment of ;i metate, 5 clay vessels, 90 fragments of pottery, 
22 small grotesque clay figures (human form), 15 ornamental clay beads, 

5 obsidian flakes, a shell ornament, an animal tooth, a fragment of 
human jaw with teeth (child), a stone ax, and a quantity of broken 
pottery (not counted); one hundred and forty-nine specimens. From 
Mr. Palmer's notes concerning this collection the following' extracts are 
taken: "In a secluded cove of the harbor of Manzanillo is an embank 
ment several feet above high tide, upon which is a thicket of bushes and 
trees. Removing these and by digging, remains of an Indian village 
site containing stone implements, pottery, etc., are discovered. Much 
excavating has been done, and some of the embankment from time to 
time has crumbled down, tending to still more break the pottery. It 
would seem that at the time of its abandonment (probably during the 
Spanish conquest) much of the material was broken and destroyed, as 
none of the stone mortars and metates are complete." With this acces- 
sion were also received Hi fragments of clay figures (mostly human 
form), from ancient house sites near the village of Almeria, State of 
Colima, Mexico, 30 miles east of Manzanillo. Mr. Palmer says: "A 
railroad cut revealed the house sites. The surface in places shows 
rocks of different forms and sizes placed in rude circles. The Indians 
who once lived here were removed by force, and that would account 
for the fragmentary condition of most of the objects found." 

In addition to the above-mentioned objects was sent a human skele- 
ton* with painted bones, from a cave on the island of Espiritu Santo, 
near the harbor of La Paz, Lower California. 

From the Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy, through Prof. 
Henry H.Giglioli: Twenty-five worked flint flakes, a terracotta ball, 
a terracotta fusaiole of unusual shape, 2 earthenware vases, a hoar's 
tusk, and a point of roebuck's horn, from the cave of Lazzaro, Rosilini, 
near Modica, Sicily (see Bull. Paletnologia Ital. vn, 1892); bone 
breccia with worked hints imbedded, from cavern of Les Eyzies, Dor- 
dogne, France, Lartet »x Christy; (> fragments of subfossil bones and 
2 teeth of equus and 10 worked flint knives and scrapers from a 
cave on the island of Levanzo ( Egades), \Y. Sicily — discovered by 
Prof. II. H. Giglioli, August i'!>. 1890; 7 flint knives and scrapers 
and two arrowheads, from Sartiano, Siena, Italy; 2 rliut knives, a 
scraper, and 13 arrowheads, collected in the vicinity of Florence, 
Italy; portion of a Hint borer, found at the Thermae of Caracalla, 
Rome, Italy; 3 casts in wax of beautiful Hint implements (knife, ar- 
rowhead, and a dagger, or spearhead), from an Etruscan tomb at Sa- 
turnia, Tuscan Maremma.t The originals are in the Museum of Anthro- 



The skeleton was presented to me [Mr. Palmer] by Gaston Vevis. esq., of La I'az. 
Nothing was reported to have been found with the hones. (Ace. 21(1(10. | 

IThe question " Whence came the Etruscans" is probably the foundation of the 
oldest dispute or discussion known to history, it began in the fifth century B. ('., be- 
tween Herodotus and 1 >ion\sins of Haliearnassus. and continued until the nineteenth 



DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 137 

pology at Florence; 2 dint knives found at Bari, Puglia, southeast 
Italy; a stone fusaiole found near Arezzo, Tuscany; blade of a bronze 

dagger, found near Cortona, Tuscany (rare); 2 primitive bronze fig- 
ures (human), votive or sacred, from an Etruscan tomb near Chiusi, 
Italy (rare); 2 bronze man heads, spikes, from Etruscan necro- 
polis, near Chiusi (rare); a Roman sling-stone in lead, with inscrip- 
tion, found near Aseoli-Piceno, Italy (rare); an Etruscan sling-stone 
in lead, with inscription, found near Cortona, Italy (rare) (this speci- 
men is similar in shape to the sling-stones of steatite used by the natives 
of New Caledonia); a small silver fibula, Greco-Italic, from an ancient 
tomb near Capua, southern Italy; plaster east of a small stone chisel 
from the Santa Cruz district, Jamaica, West Indies (the original is in 
the archaeological museum, at Cambridge, England); a worked tiint 
knife or scraper from the Babel-Maluk Valley, near Thebes, Egypt, and 
5 flint flakes found with many similar ones near Baalbec, Syria; col- 
lected by Dr. Verio in 1890; 5 fragments of rudely ornamented pot- 
tery, 3 shells, 26 bones of a pig (Sus andamanensis), and 2 bones of a 
tish from a Kitchen -midden, near Tort Blair, Andaman Isiands. Bay 
of Bengal (relics of the aborigines), collected by E. H. Man, esq.; 
7 fragments of coarse pottery from a mound on the Manatee River, 
British Honduras, collected by J. Ballamy in 1890; rude figures in 
coarse terra cotta, excavated from ancient tombs on the bank of the 
Rio Tajajos, Province of Para, Brazil; the figures represent an owl, a 
tortoise, a sitting human figure, the legs of a bird, a human head, and 
a cone-shaped object, collected by A. M. d' Almeida Leal in 1889. En- 
tire number of objects received, 140. (Ace. 24918.) 

From the National Museum of Anthropology and Ethnology, Florence, 
Italy, through I )r. Paolo Mautegazza, curator : A collection of archaeologi- 
cal specimens from Italy; a fragment of worked wood and a plaster cast 
representing a somewhat similar piece, from the lacustrine habitation 
at Mecurago, Province of Novara (bronze age) : model in plaster of a 
perforated stone disk, and a fragment of pottery from lacustrine habi- 
tation at Isolino, Lake Varese; fragment of pottery (brule), Terramare 
de Noceto, Parma; fragment of pottery from the cave of Bergeggi 
(Savona); terracotta spindle whorl fusaiole from Mount Calamita, island 
of Elbe; two polished hatchets from Casentiuo, and one from Mount 
Cuccoli, Tuscany ; polished stone hatchet (diorite) from the Province of 

century. The discovery in this country of. prehistoric man with his ages of stone 
and bronze has settled the question that the Etruscan country was occupied long 
prior to the Etruscan civilization, and, there being nothing to the contrary, we may 
suppose that the former occupants were the ancestors of the Etruscans. Some of 
the monuments at Saturnia were dolmens and have been recognized as belonging to 
the prehistoric ages of stone or bronze. It may, therefore, be doubted whether the 
"beautiful flint implements" mentioned really came from an "Etruscan tomb" 
at Saturnia. As they are similar in every particular to prehistoric flint implements, 
it has been contended that they belonged to the ages of stone or bronze, and were 
earlier than Etruscan. — Curator. 



138 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Teramo; model in plaster of a small polished stone hatchet, the origi- 
nal from a lacustrine habitation, Lake Varese; 2 arrowheads of flint, 
barbed and stemmed, from Ascoli-Piceno ; 2 flint arrowheads, barbed 
and stemmed, from Montorio, Abruzzi; 2 flint arrowheads from Sarte- 
ano, Province of Siena; an arrowhead and 2 worked flint flakes from 
the valley of the Vibrata, Abruzzi (collection of Dr. Concerio Rosa) ; 2 
flint flakes or knives from the valley of the Vibrata and 1 from the 
Ainbra; a bronze hatchet from Maremma, Tuscany. 

The following objects (11 in number) are from different localities 
on the island of Elbe, collected by Dr. Kaffaello Foresti: Two flint 
scrapers, Cala Giovanni; a large worked flint flake, Saut-a Lucia; a 
flint scraper and a rude point, San Martino; a large worked flint flake, 
Tre Acque; a flint flake — retouched — (graver?), Valley of the Inferno; 
piece of worked stone. San Martino; a worked flint flake, Lito; a flint 
flake (double ended) and a small polished hatchet from Lacona. (Ace. 
24910.) 

From the same source were also received 3 modern oak disks 
from interior Italy, turned in a lathe and decorated with concentric 
rings. The sizes of these disks are respectively 6f by 2, If by 14, 3^ 
by 1| inches. The North American Indians had a game called Chung- 
kee, played with disks of stone by rolling them on the ground or court. 
These wooden disks are used in Italy to play the similar modern game of 
Puizzole (called Ruzzoletta when played by children with the small 
disks). It is sometimes played by peasants, when they use disks of 
cheese in the form common to the country, betting one cheese against 
the other, the winner taking both. It is then called " Giuoccodel For- 
maggio," or play of the cheese. It is played by two persons, but may 
be by four, arranged in opposing sides. The game is played similar to 
quoits, except that the disks are rolled on the ground instead of being- 
pitched through the air. Goals or marks are established, and the player, 
standing alternately at one, rolls toward the other, the disks nearest 
the mark being the winners. This game is of great antiquity, and is 
believed to be a survival of the classic game represented by the antique 
statue of Discobolus. (Ace. 24919.) 

From A. \Y. White, Albert Lea, Freeborn County, Minn.: A rude 
chipped implement found 15 feet below the surface in glacial drift forma- 
tion of a railroad cut in Freeborn County; also arrow and spearheads, 
surface finds from the same locality; 7 specimens. (Ace. 25492.) 

From Alfred Pruden, Dayton, Ohio: A copper ax found in an Indian 
mound corner Fifth and Mound streets, Dayton, Ohio. (Ace. 25113.) 

From Warren K.Moorehead, Xenia, Ohio: Large altar of baked clay 
(weight, 590 pounds), from a mound in the Scioto Valley, on the north 
fork of Paint Creek, Ross County, Ohio. These altars are formed In- 
placing a mass of clay on the surface of the ground, hollowing it out, 
as seen in this specimen, and burning it to a brick-like hardness. The 
cavity usually contains relics and human bones. (Ace. 25903.) 



DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 139 

From M. L. Marks, Sixth Auditor's office, Post-Office Department, 
Washington, I). C: Five gold ornaments from ancient graves in the 
United States of Colombia. (Ace. 25150.) 

From Edward S. Thompson, Thoinpsontown, Pa.: Large collection of 
aboriginal relics found along the banks of the Juniata River, between 
Thoinpsontown and Port Royal; arrow and spear heads, perforators, 
rude chipped implements, a chipped disk, notched sinkers, a polished 
hatchet, fragments of steatite and pottery vessels, pieces of clay iron- 
stone (slightly worked), and fossil shells; 408 specimens. (Ace. 25117.) 

From A. G. Carlisle, through Charles Seidler, No. 46 Eyot Gardens, 
Hammersmith, London, England: A large collection of chipped imple- 
ments, principally flakes, knives, crescents, etc., of agate, chalcedony, 
jasper and chert, from caves in the Vindhya Hills, central provinces of 
India. Discovered and collected by A. C. Carlisle, esq., late of the Ar- 
chaeological Survey of India; 1,074 specimens. This is an interesting 
and valuable acquisition to the Museum. Archaeological specimens 
from India are hard to obtain, and previous to this occasion our repre- 
sentation from this locality was extremely small — less than 100 objects. 
The long, thin flakes and the crescent-shaped implements are the per- 
fection of flint chipping. (Ace. 25122.) This collection is described in 
a separate paper. 

From De Witt Webb, M. 1)., St. Augustine, Fla, : A large collection 
from Shell Mound near St. Augustine: Perforated shells (club heads?), 
shells used as food, scrapers, hatchets, perforators, sinkers, spoons, 
ladles, etc., of shell; also bone implements, stone mortars and pestles, 
bones of fishes, animals and birds, fragments of pottery, and parts of 
two human skeletons; 433 specimens in all. (Ace. 25232.) This col- 
lection to be described in a separate paper. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution 
(through Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau): A collection of 
aboriginal objects from a mound near Linville, Rockingham County, 
Ya: Chipped flint implements, hammer stones, polished hatchets, per- 
forated tablets, stone and clay pipes, implements and ornaments of 
shell and bone, clay vessels, fragments of pottery, and human skulls 
and bones. One hundred and forty-two specimens (packages of shell 
beads, fragments of pottery and of bone, counting as one number). The 
mound was explored by Mr. Gerard Fowke, and will be described in a 
future report of the Bureau of Ethnology. (Ace. 25300.) 

From O. X. Bryan (bequest of), through George R. Bryan, Marshall 
Hall, Md. : Large collection, containing rude chipped implements (paleo- 
lithic type), leaf-shaped implements, knives, scrapers, perforators, arrow 
and spear heads, rude notched axes, hammer stones, pitted stones, 
chipped and polished hatchets, grooved axes, bowlders and slabs with 
mortar-like cavities, notched sinkers, drilled tablets and ceremonial 
objects, carved pipes of steatite, fragments of pottery, and steatite bowls. 
The above specimens are mostly surface finds from the Bryan plan- 



140 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

tatious in Charles ;ut<l Prince George's comities, Md. The materials 
are principally quartz, qnartzite, hornstone and rhyolite. There are 
also arrow and spear heads, scrapers, etc., of flint and jasper, from Ohio, 
Indiana, Illinois, North and South Carolina. A number of polished 
hatchets (locality not given); fragments of pottery from Massachusetts, 
Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, Ohio, and from the pueblo of Moqui, Ariz. 
2,<>74 specimens in all. (Ace. 24837.) 

From Edward Lovett, West Burton House, Outram Eoad, Croydon, 
England: Twenty-two rude flint implements and worked flakes (paleo- 
lithic), from Norfolk, Suffolk, Devon, Cheswick, Ightham, Han well, and 
Stamford: also 44 worked flint flakes (neolithic), from the Thames River 
and from Capel, Sussex. England. (Ace. 25615.) 

From Henry Balfour, Anthropological Museum, Oxford, England: A 
flint core, 4 paleolithic implements from France, a flint scraper, and a 
small polished hatchet from the cavern of Les Eyzies, France; 5 flint 
scrapers from South Downs, Dorset County, England, and ."> stone 
hatchets (Carib), from the West Indies. (Ace. 24703.) 

From Charles H. Russell, Bowling Green, Ohio: A bird-shaped carv- 
ing of banded slate from Center Township, Wood Comity, Ohio. Fine 
specimen. (Ace. 25(>2r>.) 

From F. J. Johnston, Xew Carlisle, Clark County, Ohio: Colled ion 
from a gravel pit near Xew Carlisle, of bone perforators and chisels, 
pieces of worked bone, animal teeth, broken flint spearheads and frag- 
ments of a human skull. (Ace. 25633.) From letters received with the 
specimens, the following extract is taken: 

"The ridge in which the pit was tiny is of a glacial formation, having a southeastern 
anil northwestern direction. The gravel is in layers and reaches to the surface. On 
the tup of the ridge the gravel has been removed, making a boat-shaped heir, length 
about 1") feet, width in center 6 feet, depth in center 4 feet. In this cavity, which 
was tilled with red clay mixed with gravel, the specimens were found. 

Nos. 1 and 2 (fragments of a human skull) were found within 1 foot of the surface, 
with no evidence of other bones. A piece of a skull was found within (i inches of the 
surface. Nos. 3, 4. 5, (>, and 7 (a beaver tooth and four bone points) were taken from 
the southern end; also the broken spear heads and a conglomerated mass of human 
bones. Several ribs were found between two femurs. All the skeletons (bund 
separate (9) were lying with their heads to the west of north." 

From William S. Thomas. Washington.!). C. : A large collection from 
the District of Columbia of hammer stones, rude chipped implements 
(principally qnartzite), notched axes, chipped hatchets, partly polished 
arrow and spear heads of quartz, qnartzite, and felsite, perforators, 
scrapers, grooved axes, drilled ceremonial objects, fragments of pot- 
tery, a small piece of steatite with groove, and parts of a human skull; 
also a polished stone hatchet from Duchess County, X. Y., with a hole 
drilled in the upper portion, and fragments of pottery from Georgia. 
434 specimens. (Ace. 2.j(>7.">.) 

From A. Stephenson. Cincinnati. Ohio: An arrowhead of quartz 
crystal from San Miguel Island, California. Fine specimen. (Acc.25720.) 



DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 141 

From Mrs. B. I). Spencer, Brooklyn, 3S". V. (through Dr. H. T. Cresson, 
of Philadelphia, forwarded by Prof. F. W. Putnam, of Peabody Museum) : 
A pyrula shell with an engraving of a mastodon or grand pachyderm, 
human and animal teeth, shell beads, bone implements, stone arrow 
and spear heads, perforators and scrapers, and a piece of wood, show- 
ing the cutting marks of a stone ax, from the peat and fallen forest 
layer and neighboring locality near Holly Oak Station, Philadelphia, 
Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, Delaware. These objects were 
discovered by Dr. 11. T. Cresson and M. Safault in 18G4. Seventy- 
nine specimens. (Ace. U4G95.) 

From P. Forrer, Strasbnrg, Germany: Thirty-four pieces of pottery 
(Saurian ware) of Roman manufacture, each one having a name stamped 
upon it; and 25 pieces of Coptic cloth. (Purchased.) The name given 
to these has been Coptic cloth, because they were made principally at 
the city of Coptos, which was located about halfway between the cities 
of Thebes and Panopolis. Thence this commerce was carried in every 
direction both through Egypt and Ethiopia, and these and similar cloths 
have been found as far north as Fayum. There are evidences of Greek, 
Roman and Byzantine influences. Some of the fabrics were woven in 
the loom with shuttles, but others were made as tapestries. They are 
usually of flax, though wool is interwoven. Silk was known in that 
day, but seemed to have been such a luxury that its use was uncommon. 
Some of these cloths have been described by Herodotus and Strabo. 
The use of this and similar fabrics made with the loom in Egypt dates 
from high antiquity. Many of these are tapestries and woven in the 
same manner as the Gobelins. They were all used as garments ami 
were the burial dress of their owners, having been exhumed from the 
graves of the neighborhood. They date from the first to the seventh 
century, A. D. These objects will be described in a separate paper. 
(Ace. 24690.) 

ROUTINE WORK, CLASSIFICATION AND ARRANGEMENT OP COLLECTION. 

This department of the Museum, consisting, as it does, of antiquated 
bones, stones, and pottery, much of it in fragments, is not attractive to 
the ignorant visitor. Its objects have been known throughout historic 
times without exciting public interest. If they have been gathered, it 
was from curiosity. All this has been changed by the discovery of pre- 
historic man. Now the objects take their proper place as evidence of 
the antiquity of man, and are regarded with proper interest and given 
their true value. But this requires an understanding of the objects 
and their relation — man and man's industry. This is explanatory of 
the statement that in my department visitors frequently call upon me 
for explanations, and ask my opinion upon objects, sometimes those in 
the Museum, at other times those owned and brought by the visitors, 
and this adds much to our routine labor. I approve this idea, and have 



142 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

always done what I could to satisfy this laudable scientific curiosity on 
the part of the public. I remember that this is a Museum for the peo- 
ple as well as an organization for the advancement of science. 

The number of entries in the loan book during the year was 26. 
Specimens entered in this book are principally sent for examination 
and report, sometimes with regard to purchase, but more often classifi- 
cation, probable use, etc., is desired. This requires more or less corre- 
spondence with the parties sending, and after the report is made, repack- 
ing and return of the specimens. 

Subject to these explanations, the routine work of former years has 
been kept up. 

DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATE ARCHAEOLOGICAL SPECIMENS. 

The following statement indicates the distribution of archaeological 
specimens by the National Museum during the year ending June 30, 
1892: 

To Herbert E. Brock, Mason City, Iowa; 57 archaeological specimens 
in exchange for fossils. (Sent July 24, 1891.) 

To Mrs. I). B. Meacham, Ridgway avenue, Amidale, Cincinnati, 
Ohio: 17 archaeological specimens in exchange. (Seut February 11, 
1892.) 

To Herbert E. Brock, Mason City, Iowa: 50 specimens of arrow and 
spearheads, in exchange for Crinoids. (Sent March 2.'>, 1892.) 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

Number of specimens in the collection as indicated in the report for the 
preceding year 127. 890 

Number of specimens received in the department during the year ending 

June 30, 1892, and entered in Vol. \xxi, Museum Catalogue 9,594 

137. 1S4 

Specimens .sent in exchange 312 

Now on hand 137, 172 

CATALOGUE. 

Number of last entry in June, 1891 . 148,133 

Number of last entry in June, 1892 149, 401 

In the Bibliography (Section IV) will be found references to several 
papers which have been published by the curator during the year. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS 
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Frederick W. True, curator, 



As regards the regular work of the department, the year covered by 
this report was less productive of results than its predecessors. The 
time of the Curator was occupied by other duties for one-third of the year. 
The preparations for the World's Fair were in progress, and arrange- 
ments could uot be made to secure the services of a skilled assistant 
to replace the assistant engaged in held work. As intimated in last 
year's report, it is probable that normal conditions will not return until 
after the close of the work for the World's Fair. In the meantime 
little can be done beyond protecting the collections from deterioration. 

In number and importance the accessions will compare favorably with 
those of former years.* The principal accessions are here referred to: 

Many foreign mammals have been obtained through the continued kindness of the 

friends of* the Museum, and important additions to the series of American species 
have also been made in the same manner, and to a certain degree by purchase. 

Dr. W. L. Abbott, to whom the Museum is indebted tor a valuable collection of 
East African mammals, supplemented his donation by a collection from Central Kash- 
mir, including a tine series of skins of the Rhesus monkey, a Thibetan bear, and other 
interesting species. Mr. William Astor Chanter presented two excellent mounted 
heads of giraffes, a male and a female, from East Africa. A very valuable collection of 
skins of marsupials, including 12 species of kangaroos and wallabies, was received 
from the Australian Museum. Most of these were previously unrepresented in the 
Museum collections. 

Capt.M.A. Healy, U. S. Revenue Marine, obtained tor the Museum the skin of a 
female walrus from Holy Cross Bay. Siberia, an excellent mate for the male obtained 
last year by Capt. Coulsou. Through the kind offices of Dr. C. H. Merriam, of the 
Department of Agriculture, and Mr. C. A. Townseml, of the Y. S. Fish Commission, four 
sea lions, Eumetoplas stelleri, and two harbor seals were obtained from Monterey. Cal. 
Dr. Merriam also aided the Museum in obtaining from Newfoundland three gray 
seals, Haliclm rus grypus, a species rare in American collections. A fine adult male 
hooded seal, Cystophora crislata, was obtained by Rev. M. Harvey, of St. .Johns. 
Newfoundland. 

The Mexican Boundary Commission began field work (luring the year. Dr. Edgar 
A. Mearns. \J. S. Army, who was appointed surgeon to the Commission, expressed his 
desire to make zoological collections for the Museum ami was supplied with traps, 
preservatives, and other collecting apparatus. He has entered enthusiastically into 
the work and scut in from the border large collections of finely prepared specimens. 



No attention is paid at this time to the numerous specimens obtained for the 
World's Fair. These will be mentioned in next year's report, when a detailed account 
of the work done for the exhibition will be submitted. 

113 



144 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL .MUSEUM, 1892. 



As t lie collections made in this region by tlio earlier Boundary Survey have largely 
deteriorated, this fresh material is of great interest. 

Mr. 1'. L. Join, who was detailed from the department for held work, made con- 
siderable collections during the year in .Southern Arizona, and in Sonora and San 
Luis I'otosi, Mexico. A skin of the coati, Nasua nasica, was obtained by Lieut. 
John S. Winn. IT. S. Army, in the Huachuca Mountains of Arizona. This is one of 
the earliest evidences of the presence of this singular animal in the United States. 

The Museum was permitted by Capt. W. H. Cassel to obtain in Druid Hill Park, 
Baltimore, four Virginia deer— two buck, a doe. and a fawn. The park had become 
overstocked, and il was necessary to reduce the number. A skeleton of the white- 
beaked dolphin, Lagenorliyn<?hua albirostris, was received in exchange from Prof. 
Robert Collett, of Christiania. Norway. 

The mounted skin of a dolphin, Delphinus delphis, from Carmel Hay. California, 
was purchased. 

Specimens of the rare American bats, Macrotus califomicus and Promops californi- 
cus, were presented by Mr. George A. Allen. Indian agent in Yuma County. Ariz. 
Mr. E. Li. Storment also presented a specimen of the latter species and one of Atdla- 
phtt entered. 

flic President deposited in the Museum an armadillo sent him by Mr. R. R. Skaggs, 
of Breckenridge, Tex. 

A considerable collection of small mammals from the vicinity of Fort Snelling, 
Minu., was presented by Dr. Mearns. Small mammals from Texas and. California, 
needed to till gaps in the study series, were purchased from Mr. C. K. Worthen, of 
Warsaw, 111 

A number of skeletons of species of ruminants and other mammals previously un- 
represented in the collections were obtained from the Museum D'Histoire Naturelle 
in exchange. 

During the year more than 50 mammals, including a moose.:! bears, I goats, and 
other large forms, were received from the National Zoological Park. While the loss 
of so many animals by the Park is to be regretted, it seems inseparable from enter- 
prises of this kind, and is in some, degree counterbalanced by the gain to the Museum. 

No important changes have taken place in the exhibition hall during 

the year, and no groups were added. A tew skins were mounted by 
the taxidermists, who have had little time, however, to devote to the 
regular work of the Museum. The chief addition was a portion of 
the Abbott collection, mounted by Ward's Natural Science Establish- 
ment. 

The list of new mounted skins is as follows: 



White-collared Mangabey, Gercoccbun col- 

laris. 
Common Macaque, Macacits cynomolgus. 
Pig-tailed Macaque, Macacits nemestrinns; 
Yaguarundi cat. Felis yagiiarundi. 
Gray wolf, t'aiti* lupus (Florida). 
Striped skunk, Spilogale sj}.{ semi-albino). 
Striped ichneumon, Crossarchus munyo 

(Abbott Coll.). 
Squirrels (4 species). 
Tana, Tupaia tana. 
Hedgehog, EHnacens eiuopaius. 
Giraffe (heads of male and female). 
White-maned gnu. Connoclicetes taurinus 

(llbajllha/its. 



Reed buck, Eleotragus arundinaceus, 
Pencil-eared oryx, Oryx callotis. 
Water buck, Kobus ellipsiprymus. 
Bush buck, Tragelaphv8 8criptu8roualeynii. 
Coke's hartebeeste, Alcelaphus cokii. 
Pallah antelope, Aepyceros melampus. 
Graut's gazelle. Gazella grantii. 
Thomson's gazelle, GaeelJa Ihomsonii. 
Abbott's antelope, Cephaloplus sp a <l i x, 

(Type.) 
Black-fronted pygmy antelope, Cephalo- 

j>hiis nigrifrons. 
Damara-land' pygmy antelope, Neotragus 

damarensis. 



This and the succeeding antelopes are all males, from the Abbott collection. 



DEPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 145 

The regular routine work of the department, identifying specimens, 
cataloguing, assorting, and rearranging, was carried on as usual. 
For the Department of Agriculture collection, 5,897 skins and 5,88J 
skulls were catalogued by our clerks. A large number <>(' skulls of 
small mammals belonging to this collection were cleaned during the 
year, but large numbers remain uncleaned. The Museum also made 
up a considerable number of skins of foxes, skunks, coat is, peccaries, 
bears, etc., belonging to this series. 

No special report on the work of the taxidermists can be made with 
advantage at this time. Only two taxidermists were retained on the 
Museum roll during the year, and these were engaged for the greater 
part of the time in work connected with the World's Fair exhibits. 
Nothing could be done to decrease the number of skins in pickle, 
though it is unfortunate that some of them should remain longer 
unmounted. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy, formerly assistant in the department, was engaged 
in field work during the year. The explorations of Dr. Mearns have 
already been referred to. 

A few specimens were loaned for study or distributed during the 
year. These were: To Dr. J. A. Allen, New York, 3 skins and 5 skulls 
of Capromys, for study; to Mr. William Taylor, San Diego, Tex., 5 
skulls of North American mammals, in exchange; to Dr. Harrison 
Allen, Philadelphia, Pa., 2 skeletons of fruit bats, for study. 

Identifications of North American mammals were made for Mr. GL S. 
Miller, Jr., of Cambridge, Mass. Mr. (i. H. Eagsdale, of Gainesville, 
Tex., received information regarding the distinguishing characters of 
the various species of American eats. 

The number of specimens in the several series, dune 30, 18!>L>, was as 
follows : 

Number of mounted skins in the exhibition series S3S 

Number of skins and alcoholic specimeus in the study and reserve scries .. . !t. 47H 

Number of skins arid alcliolic specimens received during the year 709 

The last entries in the several catalogues June 30, 1892, were as follows: 
Regular series : 

Skins and alcholics I'D, 17."> 

Skulls and skeletons 35,527 

Department of Agriculture deposit : 

Skins _' 34, 328 

Skulls 46, 419 

H. Mis. 114, pt, L> 10 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Robert Ridgway. Curator, 



GENERAL REVIEW OF THE YEAR'S WORK. 

Iii addition to the regular routine work of the department, which of 
itself is too complicated to admit of specific description, the following 
special work was accomplished during the year. It may be premised 
that all such work has been done at irregular intervals, or only when 
time could be spared from the more exacting duties of the curator. 

The working up of a collection of birds from Honduras and another 
from Costa Rica was completed during duly, and the results turned in 
to the editor of the "Proceedings" for publication. Considerable work 
was also done, as opportunity occurred, on a revision of the genera 
Sittasomus and Formicarius, besides other groups, the results of which, 
so far as the work has been completed, are mentioned by title in the 
Bibliography (Section iv). 

In August, the transferring of specimens constituting the study col- 
lection to new trays was begun, as was also the consideration of plans 
for an exhibit of birds at the World's Columbian Exposition, the cata- 
loguing and putting away of the Richmond collection of over .'>,000 
specimens, the separation of duplicates from the same, and numerous 
other matters. 

The rearrangement of the study collection in the new cabinets was 
continued in September until all the cabinets in the gallery were rilled. 

In April, a large collection of birds from (Jaslimir. presented by Dr. 
W. L. Abbott, was worked up, involving considerable labor, since most 
of the material was entirely new to the Museum. Much work lias also 
been done on a large collection of birds from the Galapagos Islands. 

As time and facilities afforded, a large amount of difficult and labori- 
ous work was performed in the rearrangement of specimens in the west 
basement, where modern cabinets had been substituted tor some of the 
various kinds of unsuitable cases in which this extremely valuable part 
of the collection had been stored. The work is far from finished, how- 
ever, and can not be completed until after the World's Fair exhibit has 

been disposed of. 

147 



148 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

A very considerable part of the curator's time was employed in the 
consideration of plans and details of execution for an exhibit of birds 
at the World's Columbian Exposition. This matter was embarrassed 
by many obstacles, the most serious of which was the extreme difficulty 
experienced in securing competent skilled assistants. It was also 
found very difficult — in some eases impossible — to obtain the necessary 
material; and, owing to the novel character of the work undertaken, 
much time was necessarily spent in experiment. Further time was lost 
by illness of assistants; but, all these hindrances taken into considera- 
tion, the progress of the work has been satisfactory, and unless the 
value of the exhibit is impaired by material reduction of its extent, a 
highly interesting and instructive collection will be produced. 

NOTES UPON THE MORE IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS RECEIVED DURING 

THE YEAR. 

The number of specimens entered in the Museum register of birds 
during the year 1891-'92 is 5,008 (catalogue numbers 120753 to 126349, 
inclusive, and 12II351 to 126361, inclusive), the more important acces- 
sions being the following: 

Prom Dr. W. L. Abbott, Philadelphia, Pa.. :ii>2 specimens (number of species unde- 
termined;, from Cashmir, India. (Gift.) 

From C. F. Adams, Champaign, 111.. 2 specimens of the American Flamingo (Phwui- 
voplerus ruber), from the Galapagos Islands. ; Purchased for the World's Pair 
exhibit.) 

From the American Museum of Natural History, New York City, id specimens (31 
species), from Chapada, Matto (i rosso, Brazil. (7 species new to the collection, i 
(Exchange. ) 

From F. B. Armstrong, Brownsville, Tex.. 2 specimens of Chachalaca (Ortalis vetitla 
mceallii), from Texas. (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 

From the Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zealand, 58 specimens (37 species) of 
New Zealand birds, many new to the collection. ( Exchange.) 

From the Australian Museum, Sydney. New South Wales, 137 specimens (90 species), 
from Australia, most of the species new to the collection. (Exchange.) 

From Rollo H. Beck, Berryessa, Cal., 98 specimens (58 species), from California. 
(Gift.) 

From E. Belding, Stockton, Cal., 1 specimen Blue Goose (('hen cwrulescens), from 
California. (Gift.) 6 specimens (3 species), from California. (Gift.) 17 speci- 
mens (11 species), chiefly from California. (Gift.) 

From Lieut. Harry G. Benson. F. S. Army, Sequoia Reservation, California, 3 speci- 
mens Black-chinned Humming Bird ( Trochihis alexandri (.from California. (Gift.) 

From A. Boucard, London, England, (a) 11 specimens (11 species) birds of Para- 
dise (purchased for World's Columbian Exposition); (1>) 12 specimens (10 
species) parrots (purchased for the Museum); (c) 21 specimens (24 species) 
humming birds (purchased for the World's Columbian Exposition); (d) 12 
specimens (10 species) parrots (purchased, part for the Museum, part for World's 
Fair group); (e) 3 specimens (same number of species) birds of Paradise, from 
\ew Guinea (purchased for World's Fair exhibit). 

From Walter Brett, Lakeport, Cal., 2 specimens of Double-crested Cormorant (Pha- 
lacrocorax dilopJins), from California. (Gift.) 

From H.H.and C. S. Brimley, Raleigh, N.C., 1 specimens ['■> species), from North 
Carolina. (Purchased.) 



DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 14'.» 

From Edward J. Browu, Washington, D.C., 4 specimens Seaside Sparrow (Ammo- 
dramus maritimus), from Cobb's Island, Virginia. (Exchange. I 

From O. N. Bryan (deceased), Marshall Hall, Md., 12 specimens (9 species), chiefly 
from Marshall Hall, Md. (Bequest. This bequest contained a much largernum- 
ber of specimens, but nearly all were so badly moth-eaten and infected with 
insects that it was necessary to burn them.) 

From .lames C.Carter, New York City, a line specimen of hybrid Mallard (Anas 
boschas) and Pintail (Dafila acuta), from Swan Island. North Carolina. Also a 
European Widgeon (Mareca penelope), from the same locality. (Gifts.) Two 
specimens of the American Merganser I Merganser americanus), in the Hesh, from 
Chesapeake Bay. (Gift. ) 

From C. T. Cooke. Salem, Oregon, a pair of Steller's .lay (Cyanocitta stelleri), from 
Salem, Oregon; parents of nests and eggs purchased for oological collection. 
(Gift.) 

From C. B. Cory, Boston, Mass., 1 specimen of the Crocodile Bird (Pluvianns 
cegyptins), from Egypt. (Gift.) 

From B. L. Cunningham, Fort Klamath, Oregon, 3 specimens (2 species), from 
Fort Klamath, ((lift.) 

From S. F. Denton. I'. S. Fish Commission, 1 White-bellied Sea Eagle ( Halia>,etu8 len- 
cogasler), from Queensland, Australia. (Gift.) 

From Department of Agriculture (through Dr. C. Hart Merriam, chief of Division of 
Economic < Ornithology and Mammalogy), 2 specimens Florida Bobwhite ( Colimts 
virginianiiR jloridanus) and 2 of Chestnut-bellied Scaled Partridge (Callipepla 
squamata castanogastris ). 

From A. Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico, 3 specimens (3 species), from various localities 
in Mexico. ((Jilt. ) 

From Bruno Gcisler, Finschhaven, Dutch New Guinea, I'M specimens (7 species), 
chiefly birds of Paradise, from New Guinea. (Purchased.) 

From E. M. Hasbrouck, Washington, D. C, 1 Carolina Paroquet (Canurus earolinen- 
sis), from Florida. (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit. ) 

From F. H.Hitchcock, Department of Agriculture. 1 specimen Red-tailed Hawk 
(Buteo boreu lis), 2 American Sparrow-hawks (Falco sparverius), and 1 Meadow 
lark {Sturm Iht magna), in the Hesh. from Sandy Spring, Md. (Gift; 3 accessions.) 

From P. L. Jouy, Washing! D. ('..71 specimens (64 species), from various localities 

in United States. (Exchange.) 11 specimens (6 species), from Sonora, Mexico, 
and 11 specimens ((i species) from Arizona. (Collected for the Museum. t 55 speci- 
mens (33 species) from San Puis Potosi. Mexico. (Collected for the Museum.) 

From Peter Lepp, East Saginaw Mich"., 5 specimens (5 species) of owls. (Exchange.) 
3 specimens Screech Owl (Megascops asio). (Exchange.) 

From George A. Lewis, Wickford, P. I., 1 female American Eider {Somateria dresseri), 
in the flesh, from Rhode Island. (Gift.) 

From C. Littlejohn, Redwood City,Cal.,2 specimens, same number of species, from 
California. ((Jilt.) 

From Leverctt M. Looiuis, American Museum Natural History, New York City, N. Y., 
^specimens Mountain Solitary Vireo ( Vireo solitaries alticold), from Caesar's Head, 
South Carolina. (Gift. ) 20 specimens ((I species), from (Cesar's Head, South Caro- 
lina. (Gift.) 

From A. W. Lord, Jacksonville, 111., is specimens (11 species), from Illinois. (Ex- 
change for publications.) II specimens (10 species) from Illinois. (Exchange 
for publications | 9 specimens (6 species) from Illinois. (In exchange for publi- 
cations. ) 

From Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, Fori Smiling. Minn.. 1 lo specimens I 78 species I, 
from Minnesota. (Gift. ) 

From Dr. E. A. Mearns. I'. s. Army (through International Boundary Com mission). Id I 
specimens (30 species), chiefly from El Paso, Tex. 



lf)0 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

From T. C. Mendenhall, Superintendent U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, 13 speci- 
mens (same number of species), from Alaska. 

From G.Frean Morcom, Chicago, 111., 1 Cackling Goose (Branta minima), in the 
flesh, from Minnesota. ((Jilt.) 

From the Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, San Jos€, Costa Rica (through George K. 
Cherrie), type specimens of Mionectes semischistaceus Cherrie, and Ornithion suh- 
flavum Cherrie, new species. (Gift.) I specimens (2 species, both new to sci- 
ence). (Gift.) 

From National Zoological Park. Washington, D. ('.. 3 specimens (in flesh) of Scarlet 
Ibis (Guara rubra). (Gift.) 

From Ralph N. Norton, Westbrook, Me., 7 specimens Red and White-winged Cross- 
bills (Loxia curviro8tra wmoraud /.. leucoptera), from Westbrook, Me. ( Exchange 
for publications.) 

From . I. T. Park. Warner, Tenti.. 4 skins of the bronzed Grackle (Quiscalua ceneus), 
from Warner, Tenn. : important as showing that this form, and not Q. quiscula, 
breeds in that section. (Gift.) 

From A. II. Parker, Westbrook, Me., 4 specimens (3 species), from Goshen and West- 
brook. Me. (Exchange for publications.) 

From William Palmer, National Museum,! specimen Jendaya Paroquet (Couurus 
jendaya), from Brazil. (Exchange.) 

From ('. F. Fleas, Clinton. Ark.-, 12 specimens (10 species), mounted birds, from Ar- 
kansas. (Exchange for publications.) 

From A. G. Prill, Sweet Home, Oregon, 1 Cooper's Hawk, downy young, from Oregon. 
(Gift.) 

From Dr. Wm. L.Ralph, Utica, N. Y., lskin of Flammulated Screech Owl (Megaseops 
flammeolm) and 2 skins of Saw-whet Owl (Nyetala acadiea), from Colorado; 
parents of eggs presented by Dr. Ralph to the oological collection of the Mu- 
seum (gift; purchased for the Museum by Dr. Ralph); 11 specimens (11 species), 
from Florida. (Gift. ) 

From Jenness Richardson, New York City, 8 specimens Carolina Paroquet (Conurus 
carolinensis). (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 

From C. W. Richmond, Bluenelds, Nicaragua, 217 specimens (114 species), from 
vicinity of Greytown, Nicaragua, and Rio Frio, Costa Rica. (Purchased.) 13 
ipecimens (3 species), from various localities. (Gift.) Three thousand (3,000) 
specimens (331 species), from the District of Columbia, Montana. California, 
Texas, etc. (Purchased.) <> specimens (6 8pecies), lords from District of Colum- 
bia and Maryland. (Gift.) 1! specimens hawks and owls, in the flesh, from 
Sandy Spring, Md.. 1 wo accessions. (Gifts.) 

From R. Ridgway, curator department of birds, U. S. National Museum, 29 speci- 
mens (17 species) bird skins, from various localities in Eastern United States — a 
selected lot. all the specimens showing unusual variations of plumage. (Gift.) 
One young (half-grown) Turkey Buzzard, from Washington, I). C. ; 1 Downy 
Woodpecker, from Wheatland, lnd., and 1 Yellow-bellied Sapsucker, from Laurel. 
Md. (Gift.) 

From ('. B. Piker, New York City, 399 specimens (228 species), from the Lower Ama- 
zon. A specially important collection, containing a large number of types of 
species described in the " Proceedings" of the National Museum (Vol. X, pp. 
516-528), and 28 species previously unrepresented in the Museum's collections. 
( Purchased ). 

From Frank Robinette, Washington, I). ('., 15 specimens ( 13 species), from Chihuahua, 
Mexico. (Purchased. > 5 specimens i same number of species i. from ( 'hihuahua. 
Mexico. (Gift.) 



"Purchased in June, but owing to part not being received, collection was not en- 
tered till July. 



DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 1")1 

From Jos. Rosenthal, New York City, 4 specimens | I species) birds of Paradise, etc. 

(Purchased.) 
From Fred Satiter, New ^ 01 k ( it y. t> specimens | i> species I humming birds, from Ecua- 
dor. (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit. | 
From Edw. S. Schmid, Washington, I). ('.. African Gray Parrot (Psittacus erytha- 

cus) and 1 Festive Parrot {Amazon a f estiva), in the flesh; the latter (from South 

America) new to the collection; two accessions. (Gift.) 
From the Science College Museum, Tokio, Japan ( through M. M. Kikuchi). 2 speci 

mens of the Japanese Ptarmigan, new to the collection. (Gift.) 
From Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, Takoma, D. C, 1 specimen Wilson's Snipe | Gallinago deli- 

cata), from Fort Wingate, X. Mex. -(Gift.) 
From Wm. <;. Smith, Loveland, Colo., 2 specimens Dusky Grouse (Dendragopus 

obscurus) and 1 of White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus), from Colorado. 

(Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 
From Southwick & Critchley, Providence. I>. I.. :i specimens American game birds. 

( Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 
From Harold B. Stabler, Sandy Springs, Md., I specimens (3 species) hawks and 

owls in the flesh. (Gift. ) 
From Dr. L. Stejneger, curator department of reptiles, U. S. National .Museum, 40 

specimens (16 species) bird skins, from various parts of the. world, including 26 

specimens and 6 species of the genus Sitta. ((Jilt. | 
From R.C. Stuart, Tampa, Fla., 1 male Ivory-billed Woodpecker {Campephilns prin- 
cipalis). (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 
From Rev. IP B. Tristram, The College, Durham, England, 53 specimens (47 species), 

chiefly from New Guinea, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Ac. ( Exchange). 
From B. P. Watrous, Washington, D. C, 4 specimens Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallo- 

pavo) in the flesh. (Purchased for World's Fair exhibit.) 
From Arthur T. Wayne, (Md Town, Fla., 2 specimens Swallow-tailed Kite (Elanoides 

forficatus). One specimen presented to Museum, one purchased for World's Fair 

exhibit. 
From Harry Gordon White, Washington, D.C.,2 specimens (2 species) hawks, from 

Virginia. (Gift.) 
From R. S. Williams, Great Falls, Montana, a pair of Western Flycatchers {Empi- 

donax difficUis), from Belt River Canon, Montana; parents of nest and eggs pur- 
chased for oological collection. (Gift.) 
From Scott P. Wilson, Heatherbank, England, 1 specimen Baillon's Grosbeak (Loxi- 

oides bailloni), from Hawaii. (Purchased.) 
From the V. S. Fish Commission, Washington, I). C. (through Col. Marshall 

McDonald, Commissioner), 117 specimens (20 species), from the Galapagos 

Archipelago, collected by Mr. Chas. H. Townsend. Twenty-seven specimens 

(20 species), chiefly from Alaska. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

A considerable part of what might properly be included under this 
heading has been already mentioned. 

The number of specimens mounted during the year (exclusive of those 
mounted for the World's Fair exhibit) is 276, and of specimens made 
into skins, 33. These totals are less than for the year 1890-'91, for the 
reason that a considerable portion of the taxidermist's (Mr. Marshall's) 
time was devoted to work on the World's Fair exhibit. 



152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The following minor routine work was performed during LS < ,(L- ,, ,»2: 

< Uncial letters written 1X6 

Official memoranda written 213 

< >r<lers for wmk 62 

Requisitions ( house ) 97 

Requisitions (outside) 130 

Memoranda of packing IX 

Monthly reports pages.. 72 

Papers for publication written and turned in_ do (57 

Invoices of specimens distributed do 30f 

Proof corrected do 407f 

Proof corrected, galleys do 95^ 

Manuscript revised do 3 

Annual report for 1890-'91 written , do 37 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES. 

Under this heading may be mentioned chiefly the curator's work upon 
collections from Honduras, Costa Rica, the Galapagos Archipelago, 
Cashmir, etc., and upon special groups, as the genus Formicarius; 
Dr. Stejneger's upon collections from Japan and the Sandwich Islands; 
Mr. J. A. Allen's on the genus Golaptes, and Mr. Frank M. Chapman's 
upon the Genus Quiscalus. Sonic of these investigations have not been 
concluded; but the results of others have been published. (See Biblio- 
graphy, Section iv.) 

PRESENT STATE OP THE COLLECTK >N. 

The present state of the collection is considerably improved over that 
of last year, -ring to the tar more convenient arrangement of the larger 
part in modern cabinets. A considerable portion (much the bulkier 
part, though numerically less; has yet to be rearranged, the work having 
been retarded by the preparation of the World's Fair exhibit as well 
as by want of cases. It will, however, be resinned at as early a date 
as possible, and it is to be hoped that by the end of the current year 
the entire study collection may be put in a thoroughly systematic state, 
and the duplicates separated and classified, so that by next year an 
extensive distribution of sets can be made. 

The number of specimens contained in the collection at the end of 
June, 1892, is shown in the following table: 



Study series 

Exhibition series 
Duplicate scries. . 

Total 



1890-'91. 



1891-92. Increase. 



49, 995 


53,624 


3, 629 


7. 403 


l 7,884 


481 


5, 80S 


0, 908 1 


1 500 



62,806 68,416 



srtained 1>\ actual count. 



The last entry in the catalogue for June, L891, is 1l'075l'; that for 
June, 1892, is 126361. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF OOLOGY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Charues E. Bendire, IT. S. Army (retired). Honorary Curator. 



I am pleased to be able to state that the collection is now in excellent 
shape, easy of access, and reasonably safe from insects and vermin. 
During the past year thirty new quarter unit zinc-lined and insect-proof 
cases have been furnished for its accommodation, and the entire collec- 
tion has been carefully overhauled, rearranged, and relabeled. The 
majority of the specimens now on hand in the reserve collection are in 
an excellent state of preservation, and as at present cared for will re- 
main so. 

The exhibit of nests and eggs in the main hall of the Smithsonian 
Institution conld now be materially increased, if more room was avail- 
able for this purpose. 

The most important contributions to the collection during the year 
are as follows: 

Dr. Win. L. Ralph, 26 Court street, Utica, X. Y., a magnificent collection, consist- 
ing of 444 sets of eggs, representing 194 species and 1,630 specimens. Among 
these are several species new to the collection: many others are very rare and 
have been especial desiderata for years, and all are beautifully prepared. Ac- 
companying these eggs are 100 nests, also in an excellent state of preservation. 
This collection is by far the most valuable gift received since I have been in 
charge of the department. 

Mr. B. MacFarlane, chief factor, Hudson Bay Company, Cumberland House, Sas- 
katchewan, Canada, an interesting collection of 59 sets of eggs represented by 
225 specimens and 30 nests. This donation is of considerable scientific value, as 
it extends the breeding range of several species considerably to the northward. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. a valuable collection, consist- 
ing of 40 sets. 113 specimens, and 17 nests, from thelk-ath Valley region in south- 
ern California, Nevada, and Utah, and containing a number of rare specimens. 
Interesting accessions have also been received as follows: 

Mr. Guy E. Mitchell, Washington, 1). C, a local collection, consisting of 59 sets and 
230 specimens. 

Mr. Walter F.Webb, Geneva, X. V., 30 sets, numbering 137 specimens and 10 nests. 

Assist: Surg. Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army, Fort Snelling, Minn., 46 sets, number- 
ing 177 specimens and 20 nests. 

V. S. Fish Commission (Washington, D. C), sets, 29 specimens, and 2 nests. 

Mr. Charles Littlejohn, Redwood City, (al., 21 sets, 42 Specimens, and 1 nest. 

Mr. H. P. Attwater, Rockport, Aransas County, Tex., 11 sets, 56 eggs, ami :; nests. 

153 



154 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Mr. Frank Robinette, Washington, 1>. C. 17 sets, 42 eggs, and 2 nests. 

Mr. Thad. Surber, White Sulphur Spring-", W. Va.. 13 sets, 52 eggs. 

Mr. W. G. Smith, Loveland, Colo., 7 sets, 23 eggs, and 7 nests. 

Mr. Frank Everett, Washington, D. C, 9 eggs. 

Dr. A. (J. Prill, Sweet Home, Oregon, 2 sets, 10 eggs, and 1 nest. 

Mr. R. S. Williams, Great Falls, Mont., 2 sets, 7 eggs, and 2 nests. 

IT. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C, 2 sets, 8 eggs, and 1 nest. 

Mr. F. B. Pattee, Valley Springs, Calaveras County, Cal., 1 sets, 2:5 specimens. 

Mr. P. L. Jouy, Washington, D. C 3 sets, 10 specimens, and 1 nest. 

Dr. Loverett M. Loomis, Chester, S. C, 4 sets, 12 specimens. 

Mr. R. H. Kirby Smith, Sewanee, Tenn., 5 specimens. 

Mr. Fred. Fowler, Fort Huachuca, Ariz., 2 specimens. 

Mr. W. B. Porter, Chicago, 111., 15 specimens. 

Lieut. Harry C.Benson, Fourth Cavalry, U. S. Army, Presidio of San Francisco. Cal., 

6 sets, 13 specimens, and 3 nests. 
Capt. Charles E. Bend ire, Washington, D. C, 3 specimens. 
Mr. H. H. Phillips. Crystal Falls, Mich., 1 specimen. 
In addition to these donations 37 specimens, representing 7 species, were purchased 

during the year. 

The routine work has consisted in recording, marking, measuring, 
and arranging 2,!)li) specimens received during the year, and placing 
them in their proper order in the reserve collection. Also revising and 
rearranging in numerical order 382 register sheets, showing the present 
status of the collection, and overhauling and rearranging the collection 
of nests. 

The curator has also been engaged in reading proof of Vol. I, Life 
Histories of North American Birds, etc., compiling the index for this 
volume, and in gathering material for another volume. Twenty-nine 
lots of eggs sent for identification have been reported on. 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

Specimens in North American series (representing 771 species and subspe- 
cies) 34,700 

Specimens in North American series, duplicates 11, 759 

On exhibition 1,491 

Total 47,950 

Specimens in foreign series (representing 611 species) 4, 330 

Specimens in foreign series, duplicates 231 

Total .« 4, 501 

Nests in North American reserve series 2, 530 

On exhibition 235 

Worthless and destroyed 25 

Total number of nests now in the collection ... . 2, 709 

The last catalogue entrv made in June, 1S91. was 24336, and in June, 1892, 25170. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS 
IN THE 0. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



B\ LEONHARD StEJNEGEH, ('untltir. 



The herpetologioal department has every reason to look upon the 
year 1891-91' with satisfaction. The number of accessions was larger 
than during any previous year, 1,055 specimens having been entered,* 
and the material was not interior, nor were the collections of less in- 
terest. Several very interesting species were added to the collection, 
some very rare or for the first time, others hitherto undescribed. 
Among the latter I would call special attention to a very remarkable 
blind cave salamander, discovered by Mr. F. A. Sampson in the Rock 
House Cave, Missouri, and described by me as Typhlotriton spelceus. 
It is related to Desmognathtts, but its eyes; by disuse, have become 
non-functional; the eyelids closed over and grew together, and now 
there is only a shallow furrow and a dark spot left to designate ex- 
ternally the place of the eye. The Proteus, from the grottoes in Kaern- 
then, Austria, is the only other batrachian hitherto known to be blind 
in the same way, but it belongs to a different order, and Typhlotriton 
is so far the only known blind salamander. Of rare species I may 
mention a fine specimen of Plethodon arneus, from South Pittsburg, 
Tenu., transmitted by Mr. E. Morton Middleton, and several specimens 
of another salamander recently described, viz, Spelerpes maculicaudus, 
received from Dr. (). P. Hay, and from Messrs. Frederick C. Test and 
George E. Harris. The principal accessions will, however, be referred 
to further on. 

The work in the department has consisted chiefly of routine work, 
installing, identifying, caring for, labeling, and reporting upon collec- 
tions as they have arrived. The curator has attempted some work 
upon certain groups and upon the geographical distribution of the 
reptiles in the southwestern portion of the country, but a consistent 
and steady systematic work has been out of the question. 

At the beginning of the last tiscal year it was decided to take up 
the many collections received during the last ten years and stored in 



For comparison it may lie mentioned that the number of entries in 1890-'91 was 
908; in 1889-'90,705; in 1888-'89, 784 ; in 1887-'88,19; in 1886-'87, 138. 

155 



156 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

hulk. As soon as jars and alcohol had been provided, the work of as- 
sorting and labeling was begun, and has continued steadily at such 
times as could be spared from the daily routine work. The work is 
slow, involving, as it does, not only the labor of handling, consulting 
the records, labeling, and card-cataloguing, but also a great deal of 
identifying. 

Some time has been spent in preparations for a herpetological dis- 
play at the World's Columbian Exposition. Thanks to Mr. Benedict's 
experiments, a plastic and pliable substitute for plaster was obtained 
for making the casts of reptiles and batrachians. 

By far the most valuable and interesting collection, not only of 
the year, but since the Wheeler .Survey west of the one hundredth 
meridian in the seventies, and ranking with those of the famous old 
exploring expeditions in the West, is the material received from Dr. C. 
HartMerriam, through the United States Department of Agriculture, 
and collected by him and his parties during the so-called " Death Val- 
ley Expedition,' 1 1891. It consists of more than 000 specimens (only a 
small portion, however, having been entered on the register before the 
end of the year), chiefly from the desert regions of California and 
Nevada, but many also from Utah, and quite a number from the great 
interior basin of California. A special report upon this collection has 
been prepared by the curator. 

In addition to the collections mentioned in last year's report, as made 
by Mr. P. L. Jouy in southern Arizona, quite a number of specimens 
were received from him during the present fiscal year. The excellent 
quality of his collections and of his field observations are quite as 
marked in the latter as in the former. 

From the same source the Museum procured the only extra-limital 
collection worth mentioning, viz. a number of reptiles ami batrach- 
ians collected by Mr. Jouy during his stay in Korea several years ago. 
Very little is known of the herpetology of that rather inaccessible 
country, and the collection is therefore one of unusual interest. 

The type specimen of Typhlotriton spelceus, the blind cave salaman- 
der, presented by Mr. F.A.Sampson, of Sedalia, Mo., has already been 
mentioned, but 1 may add that we are indebted to Mr. George E. Harris, 
of Cassville, Mo., for numerous larva- of the same interesting species. 

Many other valuable and interesting species have been received dur- 
ing the year from various correspondents, which can not be enumerated 
in detail in the present connection, but among the more prominent con- 
tributors the following deserve mention: Herbert Brown, Tucson, 
Ariz.; Prof. I>. W. Evermann, through U. S. Fish Commission; ,1. I). 
Figgins, Washington, 1). C; Dr. O. P. Hay, Irvington, Ind.; H. W. 
Henshaw, Washington, D. C; Julius Hurter, St. Louis, Mo.: It. Mor- 
ton Middleton, South Pittsburg, Tenn.; Charles W. Richmond, Wash- 
ington, D.O.j N. P. Scudder, Linden, Md.; Edgar Storment, Tempe, 
Ariz.; Dr. Timothy E. Wilcox, U. S. A., Fort Huachuca, Ariz. 



DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS. l. r >7 

Facilities for studying the collections, so far as they were accessible, 
have been extended to several gentlemen not connected with the Museum. 
])y. O. P. Hay spent more than a month in the department study- 
ing the reptiles of Indiana. Dr. (I. Baur, of Clark University, Wor 
cester, Mass., spent considerable time at the Museum working up 
the collection of chelonians for his proposed work on the tortoises of 
North America, to be published by The Museum. 

The work on the proposed supplementary volume of the " Noinenclator 
Zoologicus" has advanced satisfactorily. The genera and subgenera 
recorded in the Zoological Records for 1879-1889 have been card-cata- 
logued during the year, and the work of indexing the additional names 
contained in the Zoologische Jahresberi elite has been commenced. 

Mr. Frederick C. Test has been employed as an aid to the department 
during the entire year. ( )ne half of his time has been devoted to work 
on the Nomcnelator Zoologicus. the other half chiefly to routine work 
in the department. 

During the year that part of the Museum collection which was 
brought home by the naturalists of the V. S. Fish Commission steamer 
Albatross from the Galapagos Islands was recalled from Prof. Cope. 
A large quantity of material is, however, still in his possession, and an 
accurate census of the herpetological specimens of the Museum is there- 
fore as impracticable as it was last year. Like that presented a year 
ago, the following estimate has been prepared in this way: taking last 
year's estimate as a basis, those specimens which have been disposed 
of by exchange, or otherwise, have been deducted, and those which 
have been catalogued during the fiscal year have been added. Such 
an estimate shows the status of the collection on June 30, 1892, to be 
as follows: 

Specimens. 

Reserve series 15. 921 

Duplicate scries 8, 705 

I nassoited and exotics 6, 313 

Total 30. 939 

The last catalogue entry in dune, 1891, was No. 17136 and the last 
entry in June, 1892, is No. 18191. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHES 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892, 



Bv Tauleton If. Bean, Honorary Curator, 



The work accomplished in this department lias been in many respects 
generally similar to that of preceding years. My own duties in con- 
nection with the U. S. Fish Commission have rendered it impossible 
for me to devote much time to Museum matters, and the routine work 
of the department has devolved almost entirely upon Mr. Barton A. 
Beau, assistant curator. 

The curator has assisted Dr. Goode in the preparation of a bulletin 
upon the deep-sea fishes contained in the U. S. National Museum, aud 
the work was pushed rapidly forward during the fall of 1891. 

Several hundred skeletons of fishes were prepared for the depart- 
ment by Mr. E. E. Howell. These have been turned over to Dr. Theo- 
dore Gill, temporarily, for study. 

There has been a marked increase in the number of letters received 
through the Assistant Secretary's office. These for the most part con- 
tain queries concerning the fishes of various portions of the country, 
and the questions as a rule have been promptly answered. Others 
bring information of much importance concerning fishes and their life 
histories. Intelligent correspondents are much desired, and the policy 
of encouragement to such is strongly recommended. 

A number of students examined materials belonging to the Museum 
(Drs. Gill, Jordan, Gilbert, Eigenmann, Smith, and Profs. Evermanu, 
Hay, aud others). Collections aud papers based upon the same were 
received from numerous correspondents, a list of which will be found 
in the Bibliography (Section iv). 

Quite a large number of drawings of deep-sea fishes have been made 
by Mr. A. H. Baldwin. An important addition to the sectional library 
was made by the purchase of four volumes of Dr. Bleeker's "Atlas 
Ichthyologique," which completes the set of that work. 

The explorations here referred to resulted in the addition of impor- 
tant collections of fishes for the National Museum: 

The U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross cruised in the North 
Pacific and Bering Sea during the summer of 1891 and the spring of 
1892. During the winter of 1891 and 1892 the vessel was engaged in 
the survey of a cable route from California to the Sandwich Islands 
On these cruises collections of fishes were made. 

15«J 



160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The steamer Fish .'hark was engaged in the lower Chesapeake Bay. 
where small collections were obtained. 

The scl tier Grampus did general collecting in the lower Chesa- 
peake and in the coast waters adjacent thereto. 

Prof. P>. W. Evermanu, for the U. S. Fish Commission, collected 
tishes in Montana and Wyoming during duly and August, 1891. 

Profs. J. T. Scovell and A. J. Wool man made some collections in 
northern Mexico during August, 1891. Mr. P. L. Jouy collected in 
Mexico (Lake Chapala, principally), in February and April, 1892. 

Mr. Charles W. Richmond sent from Nicaragua collections made in 
February, March and April. 1892. 

The total number of packages sent out during the year, not including 
the sets of duplicate tishes. was twenty four. The most important were : 

Thirty seven species of deep-sea tishes to the Royal Museum of 
Copenhagen, Denmark, in exchange; a large series of fishes to be skele- 
tonized: and seven species of Scopelids and a tile fish to the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Mass. 

Fifty five sets of duplicate fishes were prepared and turned over to 
the registrar. The specimens were all carefully wrapped, and each set 
contained about 125 species, both fresh and salt water forms. A list to 
accompany each set was printed. 

The number of specimens added to the collections of tishes during 
the year was 1,90(5. The first entry in the register was No. 436*03, the 
last 44151;. making a total of 553 entries. 

The following list comprises the accessions to the department of 
fishes received daring the year: 

A small collection of tishes. made in Arizona by 1'. L. Jouy. 24582. 

Two specimens of the shark-pilot, Echeneis naucrates. From Wrights ville Sound, 

North Carolina. 24625. 
One specimen of Argentina alius. From H. P. Thompson. Belfast, Me. 24681. 
Two specimens of sculpin, Coitus richardsoni var., from Arkansas. Received from 

F A. Sampson, Sedalia, Mo. 24685. 
Small collection of tishes. made at Guayraas, Mix., by 1*. I.. Jouy. 24686. 
Upper jawbone of Lepidoslem platystomus from strata of rock at Rocky Point, La. 

From s. B.Johnson, Shreveport, La. 24704. 
One specimen of Chirolophus polyactoeephalus in alcohol. From Ashdown Green, 

Victoria, British Columbia. 21711. 
Twenty-one line specimens of lancelets, Branchiostoma lanceolatum, from San Diego 

Day, Cal. Purchased from L. C. Bragg. 2472S. 
Small collection of tishes from Mexico. Collected by Prof. A. Duges. 24727. 
A small collection from Matsoronga, Cordova. Estado Vara Cruz. From A. L. 

Herrera. 2476!t. 
A small collection of tishes from the West Indies and the west coast of South 

America. Collected by Dr. Howard E. Ames, of the I'. S. Navy. 24892. 
Head and tail of Sal mo salar, from the ( labbassacontic River, Maine. Sent by John T. 

Richards through Forest and Stream of New York. 25170. 
One specimen of Chilomycterns calif 'orniensis (new species), from San Diego Bay. 

Purchased from L. C. Bragg. 25173. 
A small collection of fishes, from the west coast of Florida, made by J. C. Henderson, 

ir. and Charles T. Simpson. 25300. 



DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 161 

One fresh specimen of squirrel lish. Serranusfascicularis. From John Sutherland, New 

York. 25305. 
Small collection from the District of Columbia and Virginia. Received from II. \V. 

Henshaw. 25322. 
One black-nosed dace, Rhinichthys atronasus, from the hot springs at Banff, in the 

National Paris of Canada. Received from Henry M. Ami for identification. 25326. 
One specimen of the Cascadura, Hoplosternum littorale. Procured by Roger Wells. 

U. S. Navy, on the island of Trinidad. 25336. 
Three fresh fishes from the Washington, D. C, market. From F. H. Javin.s. 25367. 
Numerous specimens of dried fish skins from Japan. Sent by II. Loomis, Clifton 

Springs, N. Y. 25379. 
One large example of flounder, Pseudopleuroneotea americanus, taken in the beam 

trawl in deep water off the New England coast. From Weaver and Ihl, New 

York. 25389. 
A collection of fishes from FortSnelling, Minn. From Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A. 25392. 
Two fishes from Fort Huachuca, Ariz. Sent by Dr. T. E. "Wilcox, U. S. Army. 25401. 
Three fresh fishes from the Gulf of Mexico. Sent by Bartholomew & Co., New 

Orleans, La. 25405. 
One specimen of Anoplarchus. Collected by J. E. McGrath in South Alaska. 25431. 
A collection of fishes from Montana, Wyoming, and the Yellowstone Park, made by 

B. W. Evermaiin. 25434. 
Eight specimens of Rhinichthys nasutus, from the warm and cold springs of the Na- 
tional Park of Canada. Sent by Henry M. Ami, of Ottawa, for identification. 

25440. 
( >ne specimen of Achirus lineatus and one specimen of Cyclopsetta n. sp. Collected by 

Dr. John F. Chittenden of the Victoria Institute, Trinidad, West Indies. 25537. 
Pike's eye with fungus attached. Sent by Harlan I. Smith, of Saginaw, Mich., for 

examination. 25606. 
Two dried seahorses, Hippocampus hudsoniua. Sent by J. J. Dunton from Ocean 

City, Md. 25640. 
One specimen of Azevia panamensis, in exchange, from the Museum of Comparative 

Zoology. 25687. 
One fresh specimen of Priouotus carolinua. Javins & Co., Washington, D. C. 25710. 
One dried specimen of Monacdnthus hispidus. Sent by C. A. D.Hill, of Pensacola, 

Fla, 25717. 
One specimen of Larimus fasdatus, from Chesapeake Bay. Donated by Walter More- 
land. 25712. 
One specimen of Chilomypterw geometricus. Donated by Douglas Taylor. 25770. 
One fresh specimen olAmiacalva, from the Niagara River. Sent by V. L. Tiphaine, of 

Lewiston, N. Y., through Forest and Stream. 25788. 
One specimen of Ctenolabrmadspersus, from the Lower Potomac. Donated by Walter 

Moreland. 25794. 
Collections of fishes from the Northwest Branch, Maryland, and from Four MileRun, 

Virginia. Donated by Audubon Ridgway. 25822. 
Small collection of fishes from Mexico. Collected by J. T. Scovell and A. J. Wool- 
man. 25859. 

SPECIMENS SENT FOR EXAMINATION AND REPORT. 

Scales of the gar-pike. Received from J. D. Lucas, Marion, S. C. (No. 1275.) 
Egg-case of shark, Gyropleurodus francisci. From E. Staples, jr., Riverside, Cal. 

(No. 1583.) 
A small collection of fishes, made in Honduras in 1892, by C. W. Richmond. (No. 

1692.) 

H. Mis. Ill, pt. 2 11 



REPORT UN THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS 

(INCLUDING CENOZOIC FOSSILS) 

IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892. 



By William H. Dall, Honorary Curator. 



The force of the Department of Mollusks during the past year has 
comprised, besides the honorary curator, Mr. Charles Torrey Simpson, 
aid, Mr. S. Hazen Bond, copyist, and Miss .N. C. Beard, copyist. Dr. 
B. E. C. Stearns, of the U. S. Geological Survey, honorary adjunct 
curator, has been absent on sick leave during nearly the whole year, 
so that we have not had the advantage of his valuable aid and advice 
in the work of the department. The three persons mentioned above 
have comprised the salaried force of the department. Mr. Gilbert D. 
Harris and Mr. Frank Burns, of the U. S. Geological Survey, in the 
course of their work on the tertiary invertebrate fossils, have rendered 
incidental assistance on that part of the collection. The writer, with 
the permission of the Director of the U. S. Geological Survey, has con- 
thmed to act as honorary curator. 

The members of the force have been diligent, faithful, and accurate 
in their work, and Mr. Simpson especially has devoted much time out- 
side of ordinary office hours to forwarding the work of the department 
and assisting its numerous correspondents. 

GENERAL OPERATIONS. 

The routine work of the year has made considerable progress. The 
number of registrations which are tabulated in another place in this 
report is less numerous than for some years previous, because more time 
has been devoted to putting the collection of duplicates in order and to 
other matters set forth below. As the arrears of material not admin- 
istered upon have been reduced, the number of duplicates has increased, 
and it has for some time been obvious that in order to make the ex- 
changes often called for, and to keep informed as to the state of duplicate 
material, it was urgently required that the latter should be put in order 
for reference. Much of the time of Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bond has been 
devoted to sorting, naming, cataloguing, and putting away the duplicate 

163 



164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

shells iii numbered boxes. A large proportion of the duplicates is now 
packed in small boxes in the storage-room, each bearing its catalogue 
number, the last box entry being No. 2035, while a card-catalogue, 
alphabetically arranged under the names of the species, makes it possi- 
ble to refer at a moment's notice to any duplicates in the collection. 
Some few marine collections remain to be reviewed and the duplicates 
eliminated, but the great mass of duplicate recent and fossil shells are 
now arranged in orderly and accessible condition, occupying over 1,700 
boxes, each plainly marked with its registration number ami name. 

The drawings, published and unpublished, are becoming so numer- 
ous that here also cataloguing and arrangement have become necessary. 
A list, in the form of a card catalogue, had been made of all the wood 
cuts and stereotypes of mollusks illustrated in the Smithsonian Reports 
and in the Proceedings and Bulletins of the Museum (with certain excep- 
ts ms). Stout mauilla envelopes, of the same size as the standard library 
card, have been used to contain original drawings, whether published 
or unpublished, while in a blank form, stamped on the outside of the 
envelope, is noted the catalogue number of the drawing, the registra- 
tion number (in the Museum register), name, and provenance of the 
specimen from which the drawing was made, together with the publi- 
cation, volume, plate, figure, number, and page reference of the engrav- 
ing made from the drawing, if published. The latter data are entered 
on library cards in cases where the engraving exists, but the drawing 
is not extant. These cards and envelopes are arranged together alpha- 
betically under the name of the species, in two series, one comprising 
the published and the other the unpublished drawings, so that refer- 
ence can be had immediately to the data relating to any species which 
have been drawn, or of which a figure has been published in the publi- 
cations of the Museum or of the Smithsonian Institution. The excep- 
tions to this comprise the figures which have appeared in Bulletin 37, 
V. S. National Museum, which contains over a thousand figures; those 
figures which are contained in the series of Smithsonian manuals of 
land and fresh-water shells in the Miscellaneous Collections of the Insti- 
tution, and a set of stereotype figures derived from the British Museum 
publications. As the cuts above named arc indexed in the publications 
referred to, and thus easily reached, it was not thought worth while 
to undertake the considerable labor of adding them to the catalogue 
until other more pressing matters are out of the way. 

The amount of labor involved in these various directions can be 
better appreciated if placed in tabular form as follows: 

Species of duplicates registered 1, 708 

Card-catalogue of the same 1, 70S 

1 drawings registered 576 

Envelopes for the same tilled out 576 

Cards cataloguing published figures 603 

Total entries 5, 171 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 16T) 

It will be observed that this is equal to 5,171 registrations, so far as 
the clerical labor is concerned, and if we add to it the regular entries 
for the year in the Museum Register, we have a total of about 7,700 
entries as against about 5,800 for 1890-'91. As the staff, by reason of 
Dr. Stearns' absence was diminished by one person, the equivalent at 
the lowest estimate of 25 per cent of its efficiency, this record may be 
regarded as satisfactory. 

Besides the work above referred to, the general operations of the 
department comprise the preparation of special reports on collections 
made under governmental auspices by various organizations, such as 
the Fish Commission, the Navy, the Revenue Marine, the Agricultural 
Department, and special expeditions. In this line various papers have 
been printed by the writer and other members of the staff, a reference 
to which will be found in the Bibliography (Section iv). Among them 
is a paper forming Part G of Bulletin 39 of the U.S. National Museum, 
containing instructions for collecting and preserving mollusks, notes 
on the arrangement, outfit, and cataloguing of collections, and the con- 
struction of dredges. This it is thought will be of use to collectors be- 
ginning work on the Mollusca, and will save much clerical work in 
writing out such instructions at short notice, as has been required fre- 
quently in the past on the starting of expeditions undertaking natural 
history work. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The number of accesssions during 1891-'92 was 85, against 79 in 
1890-'91. Several of them comprised large series of valuable and inter- 
esting forms, many of which are new to the collection. Among the 
most interesting the following may be noted: 

From Mr. C. F. Ancey were received a number of rare and peculiar species from 
Africa, iucluding several of the forms found only in the south African Lake Tangan- 
yika. 

Mr. W. G. Biuney presented the blocks of figures used in bis publications of the 
past two years, thus making them available for use in future publications of the 
Museum. 

Mr. R. W. Brown, of Washington, has continued to present to the Museum the 
numerous land-snails, etc., which are found from time to time in his importations of 
foreign fruit, so that we have had the opportunity of observing in a living state in 
an improvised snailery, several of the peculiar types of Antillean pulmonates. 

The heirs of the late Oliver N. Bryan, of Marshall Hall, Md., in accordance with 
bis Avisli presented his collection of fossils, Indian relics, etc., to the National Mu- 
seum, by which quite a number of line and interesting fossil mollusks Jell to the share 
of this department. 

To Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, New South Wales, through Mr. Charles Hedley of the 
Australian museum, we are indebted lor alcoholic specimens of the remarkable Ephip- 
podonta Macdougallii Tate, a bivalve related to GaJeomma and on which an investi- 
gation of its anatomy may be based. 

Through Mr. Hugh Fulton, of London, by exchange and purchase a number of rari- 
ties not otherwise obtainable have been received, including a line specimen of the 
extremely rare Voluta aulica which formerly belonged to the Barclay collection. 



166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

From Mr. I. Greegor, of Jacksonville, Fla., a number of interesting specimens have 
been received, mostly from Florida and the Antilles. 

Mr. Simpson, of the department of mollusks, joined Mr. J. B. Henderson, jr., on an 
expedition to the west coast of Florida, which proved fruitful in results. A series of 
the specimens collected, so far as they might be useful to the Museum, was presented 
by Mr. Henderson. 

Two large series of Japanese mollusks have been received during the year. These 
accessions greatly enrich that department of the collection, each containing several 
rarities which were not comprised in the other. One of these was the gift of the 
Rev. H. Loomis, of Yokohama, and the other was received in exchange for other 
specimens sent to Frederick Stearns, esq., of Detroit, Mich., who supplemented it by 
other forms from Mauritius and the Hawaiian Islands. 

Another gift which is highly appreciated was a set of several hundred species from 
St. Helena, probably illustrating the whole of its mollusk fauna, including the curious 
extinct land shells. This very interesting contribution was received from Capt. 
W. H. Turtou, of the Royal Engineers, Chatham, England. The collection of which 
chis is a representative set was reported on at length by Mr. E. A. Smith, of the Brit- 
ish Museum. 

The extinct fresh-water mollusk fauna of the Colorado desert has always been of 
great interest. One by one the species have been found living in springs, to which 
they retreated on the desiccation of the ancient lake. One alone remained to be dis- 
covered, Tryonia clathrata of Stimpson; and among the collections of the expedition 
to Death Valley made by Dr. C. Hart Merriam under the auspices of the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture this has been at last secured, living in a spring with a 
water temperature of 97° F. in the Pahranagat Valley. This is certainly one of the 
most interesting malacological events of the year. 

Through the efforts of the Hon. Rounsevelle Wildman, United States consul at 
Singapore, a collection representing the chief marine forms of that vicinity was 
obtained from native collectors. 

Mr. Joseph Willcox, of Philadelphia, has continued to contribute to the collection 
of Tertiary fossils, and has enriched it by a number of species from the Tertiaries of 
the Carolinas and Florida. 

ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS. 

The work of assisting students in various parts of the country to 
identify their local fauna?, to intelligently direct their studies, and 
answer their numerous queries on various branches of the subject, has 
always been regarded as an important function of this department, and 
has been frequently referred to in the previous reports. Correspondence 
of this kind was kept up in 1890-'91 with 160 persons, involving over 300 
letters and between 600 and 700 pages of writing, besides the identifica- 
tion of about 1,200 species of mollusks. In 1891-'92 the number of cor- 
respondents was 114, and the number of pages of writing involved in 
the correspondence 820. The number of species identified for various 
students, chiefly by Mr. Simpson, under my direction, amounts to con- 
siderably over 3,000, for each of which a label had to be written. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES. 

A reference to the Bibliography (section iv) will indicate the direc- 
tion of the studies carried on during the year. The report on the later 
Tertiary of the United States and Mr. Simpson's paper on Floridian 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 



167 



Unios, though printed, will be issued a few days too late to appear in 
the Bibliography of this year. The priucipal labor of the year has been 
bestowed on the continuation of the report on the Florida Tertiary Mol- 
lusks, for the Wagner Institute, of Philadelphia; preliminary work on 
the mollusks of the Galapagos trip of the IT. S. Fish Commission 
steamer Albatross, and also those collected by Dr. G. Baur; and on the 
Unionida', to which group Mr. Simpson is giving special attention. 

STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

In previous reports I have explained why it is not yet possible to 
give the exact number of species, specimens, duplicates, etc., contained 
in the collection under my charge. In my last report it was estimated 
that the collection contained about 470,500 specimens, of which one- 
fourth are preserved in alcohol. During the year about 0,225 speci- 
mens have been received, which would make a present total of about 
482,725 specimens contained in the collection. The number of entries 
in the register for 1891-'92 was 2,540, as is shown in the accompanying 
table. 



Volume. 


From — 


To— 


Total. 


Remark a. 


XXIII 


106, 856 
112, 040 
122,524 


106, 904 
112, 400 
124, 662 


48 

360 

2,138 

2,546 


Volume^in use. 


XXIV 


XXVI 








Total for 1891 '92 

















The total number of registrations to date, deducting all duplications 
and omissions in the register, is 103,113, representing about 300,000 
specimens. The number of workers and their distribution in different 
parts of the building renders it necessary to use simultaneously several 
volumes of the register. This explains why the preceding' table is nec- 
essary in order to show the total registrations for the year. The formal 
registrations (with the gaps alluded to) terminates June 30, 1892, with 
number 124,002. 



REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE FOSSILS 
IN THE I T . S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 

By <).('. Marsh, Honorary Curator. 



The most important event in this department of the Museum during 
the past year has been the accession of a large collection of vertebrate 
fossils from the West, secured by the honorary curator during his 
official work for the U. S. Geological Survey. These specimens were 
prepared in New Haven, sent to the National Museum in July, 1891, 
and placed at once on exhibition, so as to be accessible to the members 
of the International Geological Congress, which met in Washington 
in August of that year. This collection of fossils, which is more exten- 
sive and important than any other hitherto received by the Museum, 
is arranged in a wall-case especially constructed for it, extending the 
entire length of the east side of the exhibition room. 

These specimens, selected by the honorary curator as the first instal- 
ment of his official collections to be placed in the National Museum, 
arc all of large size, and especially characteristic of three important 
geological horizons of the West. The ceratops beds of the upper Cre- 
taceous of Wyoming are here represented by three skulls and other 
rare remains of the gigantic horned dinosaurs recently described, and 
among these fossils is the type of Triceratops elatus Marsh. From the 
Brontotheriuin beds of Nebraska and Dakota is shown a very complete 
series of skulls and portions of skeletons of the huge Miocene mam- 
mals of the family Brontotheridce. This scries contains ten good skulls 
representing several genera, and is by far the most important collec- 
tion of the group ever placed on exhibition. The horizon of the Plio- 
cene, known as the Pliohippus beds, is likewise represented by skulls 
and other remains of extinct species of the Rhinoceros family, espe- 
cially of the genus Aceratherium, all from Phillips County, Kans. A 
few other Tertiary fossils and some rare casts are included in this col- 
lection, but the limited space available prevented the exhibition of a 
more extensive series. 

This collection, when sent from New Haven in 33 boxes, weighed 
6,860 pounds. It has now been catalogued and well arranged by Mr. 
F. A. Lucas, assistant curator, whose services in other respects have 

169 



170 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

been of great value to the department. The catalogue numbers em- 
bracing this collection extend from 1201 to 1582, as recorded in the 
National Museum register of vertebrate fossils. The greater part of 
this collection was obtained by Mr. J. B. Hatcher, and a careful record 
of all the localities has been preserved. 

Another important collection of 72 large boxes of vertebrate fossils, 
sent from New Haven in 1880 by the honorary curator, still remains in 
storage, as there is no room for its exhibition in the National Museum 
The Smithsonian numbers of these boxes are 6001 to 6072. 

The honorary curator of this department has recommended to the 
director of the Museum that other wall-cases for vertebrate fossils be 
constructed on the three remaining sides of the exhibition room, as this 
space will be needed eventually, if the specimens already secured and 
now under investigation are all placed on exhibition. One side conld 
then appropriately be devoted to the extinct reptiles of the Triassic 
and Jurassic, another to those from the Cretaceous, while the third 
and fourth would be required for the vertebrate fossils of the Tertiary 
alone. 

During the past year the honorary curator of this department has 
published a number of papers relating, in part, to the collections above 
described, but these publications belong more appropriately to his 
work in connection with the IT. S. Geological Survey. In two memoirs 
now in preparation, however, he will give full descriptions of the more 
important specimens he has recently deposited in the National Museum. 

The collection of vertebrate fossils, which has been catalogued partly 
with the osteological specimens and partly in a separate book, has 
been recatalogued during the year in a volume specially devoted to 
vertebrate fossils. 

During the year 1,124 catalogue entries were made, and 1,001 speci- 
mens were added to the collection. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By C. V. Riley, Honorary Curator. 



Although most of the time during the past fiscal year lias been 
devoted to the study collections in the laboratory, some improvements 
have been made in the exhibit collections, especially in the systematic 
series, where numerous illustrations and specimens have been added, 
making it almost complete. 

ACCESSIONS. 

Many important accessions have been received during - the year, 
among which the following may be mentioned: 

(1) One hundred, and thirty-five species in about 400 specimens of Heteroptera, 
collected in various parts of the world, authoritatively named, from Prof. A. L. Mon- 
tandon, Bucarest, Roumania (Ace. 24579, 25244, and 25520). These have in part been 
paid for by exchange. 

(2) Series of Californian insects, collected by Mr. D. W. Coquillet, of Los Angeles, 
Cal., and transferred to the Museum collection by the curator, as follows: Diptera, 
23 species in 182 specimens (Types); Coleoptera, about 100 species in 720 specimens; 
Orthoptera, 35 species in 116 specimens; Humenopiera, 109 species in 400 specimens; 
Homoptera, 40 species in 200 specimens; Hemiptera, 107 species in 575 specimens; 
Lepidoptera, 56 species in 159 specimens; Neuroptera, 17 species iii 43 specimens; 
includes much valuable material in all orders (Ace. 24628, 24816, 24890, 24950, 25005, 
25111, 25356, 25400). 

(3) From the Department of Agriculture: Collection of insects made by Mr. A. 
Koebele during the Death Valley Expedition from the Department of Agriculture in 
the spring of 1891. Contains about 636 species in 3,473 specimens. Good and excel- 
lently preserved material. 

(4) Collection of Lepidoptera (native and exotic) from Mr. G. Beyer, of New York. 
Nine hundred species in about 1,900 specimens, nearly all large and showy forms, 
besides many North American and European species new to our collection. This is 
the largest acquisition of tropical butterflies ever made by the Museum. It was 
obtained by exchange for a corresponding number of North American Coleoptera 
from our duplicate series, that were new to Mr. Beyer's collection. This one and 
the previous accession are the most valuable during the year. (Ace. 25378.) 

(5) Collection of Aculeate Hymenoptera, about 4,000 specimens of 675 North Ameri- 
can species (including types of 25 species described by Mr. William Fox), and 100 
exotic species from Mr. William Fox, Academy Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. Pur- 
chased by the Museum. (Ace. 25769.) 

(6) Collection of insects of all orders, made by Mr. H. F. Wickham in the North- 
western States, British Columbia, and Alaska. About 1,200 specimens, transferred 
to the Museum collection by the curator. (Ace. 25554.) 

(7) Lepidotera from Trinidad, about 15,000 specimens of 95 species, from Mr. <;. 
Turner Wayman, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. Purchased by the Museum. (Ace. 25335.) 

171 



17*2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1*92. 

(8) Twenty-seven species miscellaneous insects in about 200 specimens, mostly 
from Galapagos Islands, from the U. 8. Fisli Commission. (Ace. 25157.) 

(9) Two hundred and twelve species of New Zealand Coleoptera iu about 400 speci- 
mens, from Auckland Museum, New Zealand, from T. F. Ckeeseman, intended for 
exchange. (Ace. 24957.) 

(10) Sixty-six species of authoritatively named exotic Orthoptera from Prof. H. 
do Saussure, Mnsee d'Histoire Xaturelle, Geneve, Suisse. This collection was obtained 
by the curator and by him transferred to the Museum collection. (Ace. 25271.) 

(11) Types of 16 species of Muscidse, described by Prof. C. H. Tyler Townsend, Las 
Cruces, New Mexico, and some other insects from Prof. Townsend. (Ace. 25792.) 

(12) Types of 3 new species of Odonata. from Mr. P. C. Calvert, Academy Natural 
Sciences, Philadelphia. (Acc.25609.) 

(13) Types of Scudder's articles on fossil insects in Hayden's report of 1 '. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey, Vol.xni, from Maj. J. W. Powell. (Ace. 24593.) 

(14) From the curator, 100 species of Scolytidae, mostly exotic, including many 
types, from Dr. W. Eichhoff, Strasburg, Germany. (Ace. 25498.) 

(15) Ten species in 42 specimens of Orthoptera, including some types, from Prof. 
L. Bruner, Lincoln, Nebr. (Ace. 24976. ) 

(10) Twenty-four species of North American Coleoptera, new to collection, col- 
lected by Mr. L. E. Ricksecker, San Diego, Cal., and transferred to the Museum col- 
lection by the curator. (Ace. 24940.) 

(17) Two hundred specimens of various orders, collected in Texas by Mr. F. G. 
Schaupp, and transferred to the Museum collection by the curator. (Ace. 25110.) 

(IS) Twenty-lour species of North American Coleoptera, new to collection, from 
Mr. F. C. Bowditch, Brookline, Mass. (Exchange.) (Ace. 25593.) 

(19) Male specimens of Dynastes granti Horn from Mr. Ike Patrick, Crown King, 
Ariz. (Ace. 24915.) 

Numerous valuable specimens have been added to the collections 
without accession numbers by the curator and his assistants. 

As a temporary accession may be mentioned a large collection of West 
Indian Hemiptera and parasitic Hymenoptera, sent to the curator for 
systematic study by the West India Committee of the British Museum. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

This has consisted in — 

(1) Making- up collections for exchange, some of which are the fol- 
lowing: 

(a) A series of 57 species of Scolytidae for Dr. Wm. Eichhoff, Stras- 
burg, Germany, in return for Ace. 25498. 

(/>) A series of 35 species of Scolytidae for A. D. Hopkins, Morgan- 
town, W. Va. 

(<■) A series of 900 species of Coletfptera for Mr. G. Beyer, New York, 
in return for Ace. 2537s. 

(d) A series of Hemiptera for Prof. A. L. Montandon, Bucharest, 
Roumania. 

(e) A series of 24 species of Coleoptera for Mr. F. C. Bowditch, 
Brookline, Mass., in return for Ace. 25593. 

(/') Sixty-nine species of Elateruhe for Mr. H.de Buysson, Chateau 
de Vernet, Allier, France. 

(2) Reporting on accessions sent for examination and report. One linn 
dred and seventy-two of these reports have been made during the year. 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 173 

(3) The naming of specimens for collectors. Fifty two larger and 
smaller series of insects of all orders have been identified for corre- 
spondents, representing about 3,000 species. 

(1) The selection of material to be sent to specialists for study and 
determination, as here indicated: 

(a) A series of Californian Hemiptera-Heteroptera has been sent to 
Prof. A. L. Montandon of Bucarest, Roumania. 

(b) The material in the Noctuid genera Xylomiges and Cncullia was 
sent to Prof. J. B. Smith, New Brunswick, N. .1.. to assist him in his 
study of these groups. 

(c) A series of Geonietridse, mostly collected in the Death Valley, 
California, was sent to Dr. A. S. Packard, of Providence, for determina- 
tion. 

(d) A small series of Diurnals was sent to Mr. W. H. Edwards for 
determination. 

(e) Several smaller series and all the Odonata, collected by Dr. Ab- 
bott in Africa, have been sent to Dr. P. C. Calvert, Academy Natura 
Sciences, Philadelphia, for systematic study. 

(/) A complete representation of the Museum collection in theRhyn- 
chophorus Tribe Barini has been sent to Capt. T. L. Casey, New York, 
who has undertaken to monograph the group. 

(g) A series of Geometriche has been sent to Rev. George D. Hulst, 
Brooklyn, N. Y., for identification. 

(h) All the material in the Hemipterous family Veliidse has been 
borrowed by Mr. H. E. Summers for study. 

(i) The undetermined Lepidoptera collected in Africa by Dr. W. L. 
Abbott have been sent to Dr. W. J. Holland, Pittsburg, Pa., for study. 

(5) The work of arranging in permanent shape all the collections. 

Iu the Diptera, mentioned in the last annual report as being for the 
most part arranged, the remaining families have been classified as far 
as they are studied in our fauna. In the Lepidoptera the North Ameri- 
can Diurnals, Sphingid, Bombycid, and Geometrid families have been 
completely rearranged according to the last published classification, 
and the very large accessions incorporated. Of North Americau Diur- 
nals 410 species are represented, and of Geometrids about 290 North 
American and 102 European species. A systematic arrangement has 
also been made of the tropical Diurnals, and they are represented as 
follows : 

Species. 

From Mexico and Central America lhit 

From West Indies (outside of Trinidad) 10 

From Trinidad (all of Ace. 25,335) 95 

From South America 255 

From Asia 42 

From Australia 17 

From Africa (outside of Abbott collection ) 50 

In the Orthoptera the North American collection has been rearranged, 
now occupying three full cabinets with sixty drawers, and containing 



174 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

597 species in 5,925 specimens, besides numerous duplicates separately 
arranged. In the Neuroptera the North American species have been 
arranged in one cabinet with twenty drawers, and count 348 species 
(only 211 species named) in 1,185 specimens. In the Coleoptera the 
exotic species have been arranged in seventy-six single and double fold- 
ing boxes. 

The number of species represented in our collection of this order is 
as follows: 

Coleoptera from — Species. 

Europe 3, 200 

Asia 236 

Japan 63 

Australia 312 

New Zealand 310 

Madagascar v 28 

Africa - - 450 

South America 760 

Hawaii 81 

Central America 1, 200 

West Indies 100 

United States and Canada 7, 000 

Total 13, 740 

In the Hymenoptera some of the families have been studied and the 
accessions incorporated. 

(6) Mounting, expanding, and labeling specimens for the collection. 
Much time is taken up by this work, as a large percentage of the acces- 
sions arrive unmounted and all have to be labeled before distribution 
in the collections. 

RESEARCHES. 

Most of the special researches based upon museum material are 
mentioned under the paragraph relating to routine work. In addi- 
tion to these, however, Mr. W. H. Ashmead has completed his mon- 
ograph of the Proctotrypidse of North America, based very largely 
on Museum material. This is the first monograph written upon the 
American representations of this group. 

Dr. George Marx has had at his disposal the Acarians of the family 
Ixodidie, belonging to the collection, and is engaged upon a monograph 
of the family. 

PRESENT STATE OF THE COLLECTION. 

Daring the last year about 10,000 specimens have been added to the 
collection. The last catalogue entry for June, 1891, is 740, and for 
June, 1892, is 1,041. The whole collection was carefully examined for 
museum pests during the month of June, and was found to l>e in a 
highly satisfactory condition. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES 
IN THE U, S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892, 



By Richard Rathbun, Honorary Curator. 



Much progress lias been made during the past year in the study of the 
collections belonging to this department, especially of the higher crusta- 
ceans, and in the preparation of reports relating to them. As the west 
hall of the Smithsonian Institution has remained closed during this 
entire period, owing- to delays in the completion of the repairs, it has 
not been possible to take any active steps toward the improvement of 
the exhibition series, although a very fair display has been maintained 
in the temporary quarters allotted for this purpose in the iish hall ad- 
jacent. There has been a marked increase over the previous year in 
the number as well as in the aggregate extent and value of the acces- 
sions which have been received from many diverse sources. Much 
time has necessarily been required in caring for these additions, and in 
attending to the continued preservation of the general collections, 
which have now attained so large a size as to severely tax the storage 
accommodations assigned to them. But few changes have been made 
in the quarters occupied by this department, and they remain there- 
fore in essentially the same condition as described in the last report. 

The curator has exercised only a general supervision over the affairs 
of the department, leaving to the assistant curator, Mr. James E. Bene- 
dict, and to Miss M. J. Rathbun, the burden of the work, which has been 
attended to, as heretofore, in the most thorough and conscientious 
manner. 

The total number of accessions received was forty-six. The largest 
contribution was made by the IT. S. Fish Commission and consisted 
mainly of crustaceans, chiefly brachyura and aiiomoura, represented by 
many species and a very large number of specimens, the same having 
been collected by the steamer Albatross in the North Pacific Ocean 
and Bering Sea; by the steamer Fish Hawk and the schooner Grampus 
on the Atlantic sea coast, and by Prof. B. W. Evermann in Texas. It 
also included a small collection of avian entozoa made by Prof. Edwin 
Linton in the Yellowstone National Park. 

175 



176 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The other more important accessions wore the following : From the 
Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales, 24 species of Aus- 
tralian echini, 14 of which were new to our collection, 13 species of As- 
teroidea and 50 species of brachyura and anomoura ; the Rev. < "anon A. 
M. Norman, of England, Uli species of European Paguridse and Pycno- 
gonidse ; Mr. George S. Brady, England, a named series of British fresh 
water CyclopidaB; Rev. H. Loomis, a large dried collection of crusta- 
ceans, echinoderms and sponges, 'from Japan; the Otago Museum, Dune- 
din, a collection of New Zealand crustaceans; Mr. John Murray, Edin- 
burgh, Scotland, many specimens of hermit crabs, Ewpagurus, from the 
Firth of Clyde; Mr. P. L. Jouy, a number of fresh- water crabs and 
crayfishes from Lake Chapala, Mexico, and crustaceans, echini, and 
worms from Gruaymas; Dr. T. H. Morgan, of Bryn Mawr College, a coh- 
lection of crustaceans from Jamaica; O. F. Cook and H. R. Jaquay, a 
series of Oniscidse from different parts of the United States; the King- 
ston Exposition, Kingston, Jamaica, a large and very tine series of 
dried specimens of commercial sponges; J. C. Henderson, jr., and C.T. 
Simpson, a miscellaneous assortment of crustaceans from the west coast 
of Florida; Lieut. F. E. Sawyer, U. S. Navy, Brazilian crustaceans ob- 
tained during a trip in connection with the World's Columbian Expo- 
sition. The remaining contributions, while of smaller size than those 
enumerated, have also added many valuable specimens to the collection. 

Two half-unit upright cases filled with large jars of especially inter- 
esting alcoholic specimens, such as crinoids, deep-sea pennatulae, echi- 
noderms, and crabs, have been added to the exhibition series in the tish 
hall, and Mr. Benedict has also experimented in the matter of making- 
dried preparations of crustaceans for display purposes. This it is not 
generally difficult to accomplish with the brachyurans or true crabs, but 
the hermit crabs and shrimps arc less amenable to such treatment, owing 
to their thinner shells and more delicate appendages, it is expected, 
however, that entirely satisfactory specimens can be prepared by care- 
ful treatment, and if the trials now being made turn out successfully it is 
proposed to increase the display collection. Another direction in which 
experimental work is being conducted by Mr. Benedict has reference to 
the manufacture of a plastic substance suitable for making reproduc- 
tions of the softer animals and sufficiently durable for exhibition pur- 
poses. His efforts have already met with much success and promise im- 
portant results not only for this, but also for several of the other de- 
partments of the Museum. 

The customary routine work of the department, such as the mainte- 
nance of the collections, the periodical overhauling of all the speci- 
mens to insure their preservation by the renewal of alcohol or the 
removal of Museum pests, the assorting of recent additions, their cata- 
loguing, labeling, etc., has been regularly attended to, and has occu- 
pied a very huge amount of time. In the course of all systematic 
studies the specimens of each species regarded as duplicates have been 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 



177 



separated at once from the reserve series, and the material for prepar- 
ing- new sets for distribution to educational institutions has therefore 
been gradually accumulating. Many such special sets have also been 
made up and disposed of as explained elsewhere. Much of the mate- 
rial in the line of marine invertebrates derived from the recent inves- 
tigations of the Fish Commission has been assorted in this department, 
and several of the groups which are still unassigned for study have 
likewise been stored here. Progress has been made with the card or 
reference catalogue corresponding with the work in the identification 
of species, and so far as the collections are determined, it forms a con- 
venient index to them. Collections of crustaceans borrowed from 
Union College and the Peabody Museum of Yale University for pur- 
poses of comparison have been returned to these institutions. 

Some steps have been taken toward preparing an exhibition illus- 
trating the scope of this department for the World's Columbian Expo- 
sition. These have consisted mainly in determining the family groups 
represented by the known American marine invertebrates and in ascer- 
taining our desiderata iu that respect. No more instructive exhibit 
for the use of biological students could be planned than one contain- 
ing essentially all of these families, suitably displayed, and with accom- 
panying descriptive labels. 

The amount of cataloguing done during the year is explained in the 
following table: 



Group. 



Crustaceans 

Worms 

Echinodernis and cu'lenterates. 
Sponges and protozoans 

Total 



Entries to June 30 — 



1891. 



:.->, 814 

4,935 
17, 640 
6,315 



1892. 



Entries 
made dur- 
ing year. 



16, 987 
4,958 

17, 759 
6,318 



1,173 

•j:: 

119 

3 



1,318 



Mr. Benedict and Miss Rathbunhave completed and published in the 
proceedings of the Museum a monograph upon the genus Panopeus of 
crabs, which is represented in the Museum collection by 25 species, of 
which 6 were previously undescribed. The hermit crabs belonging to 
the genus Eupagurm, of which 80 species are contained in our collec- 
tion, have received much attention from Mr. Benedict, and a complete 
report upon the group is now in course of preparation. Explorations 
during the past few years, especially by the steamer Albatross in the 
North Pacific Ocean, have added 37 new species to this genus, and pre- 
liminary descriptions of these by Mr. Benedict have recently appeared 
in the Proceedings. He has also submitted for publication a paper 
upon the Corystoid crabs of the genera Telmessus and JUrimacrus, illus- 
trated with three plates, and has reported upon a collection of crusta- 
H. Mis. 114, pt, 2 12 



ITS REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

ceans obtained in the vicinity of Kingston, Jamaica, by Dr. T. H. Mor- 
gan, The latter report was printed in one of the Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity circulars, and the specimens have been deposited in the National 
Museum. 

Catalogues of the Pericerkhe and Maiidae, families of maioid crabs, 
as represented in our collection, have been completed by Missliathbuu, 
and she is at present at work upon the family Inachidae. She has also 
prepared a list of the crustaceans obtained on the coast of Texas by 
Prof. B. W. Evermann, during a recent fishing investigation, for pub- 
lication in the Bulletin of the Fish Commission. Large numbers of 
crustaceans belonging to other families than the above, principally the 
result of Fish Commission explorations, but some derived from other 
sources, have been identified and will be made the subject of report at 
a future time. 

The department is indebted to Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., 
the Buffalo Society of Natural History, and Mr. F. A. Stearns, of Detroit, 
for the loan of specimens of crustaceans which were desired for exam- 
ination and comparison in connection with the studies above referred 
to; and also to Mr. J. E. Ives, of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural 
Sciences, for assistance in comparing specimens sent from Washington 
with the collections of that society. Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale Univer- 
sity, has returned to this Museum for study, the maioid crabs, the 
Paguridse and Porcellanida- belonging to the earlier collections of the 
Fish Commission, and some Brazilian crustaceans collected by the cura- 
tor. Mr. C. S. Dolley has also returned the crustaceans obtained by 
the steamer Albatross in the Bahama region, and sent to him for exam- 
ination a few years ago. 

Prof. A. E. Verrill and Miss K. J. Bush have continued their studies 
upon the Fish ( Vmimission collections, the property of the National Mu- 
seum, now deposited under Prof. Verrill's charge at the Peabody Mu- 
seum of Yale University. Prof. Walter Faxon, of the Museum of Com- 
parative Zoology at Harvard College, has reported upon the crayfishes 
received in recent accessions, including a new species obtained in Mexico 
by Prof. A.Duges; and the specimens of Oniscidae have been sent for 
examination to Profs. O. F. Cook and H. E. Jaquay, of Syracuse Univer- 
sity, Syracuse, N. Y., who are proposing to monograph that family. 
Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and Jefferson College, has described 
a number of birdentozoa collected by Mr. P. L. Jouy, at Guaymas, Mex- 
ico, and by himself at the Yellowstone National Park, and a paper upon 
the subject has been published. 

Although no regular fishery investigations were undertaken by the 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross during the past year, yet inci- 
dental dredgings were made during a cruise to Bering Sea with the 
United States Seal Commissioners, in the summer of 1891, and during 
the hydrographie survey for a cable route between California and the 
Hawaiian Islands the following winter. Many interesting and several 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 179 

new forms of deep- sea in vertebrates were obtained iu the course of both 
of these expeditions, and shore collecting was also carried on at Hono- 
lulu. The investigations of the steamer Fish Hawk and the schooner 
Grampus on tbe Atlantic coast have been limited to the shallow and 
surface waters, and while the natural history collections obtained by 
them are not extensive, they will eventually add some material of 
importance to this department. 

Ten sets of duplicate marine invertebrates, belonging to series No. 
IV, the composition of which has beeu described in previous reports, 
have been distributed to educational institutions, as follows: Biolog- 
ical School, Avon-by-the-sea, X. J.; Wells College, Aurora, N. V.: 
Trinity University, Durham, N. C; Fort Worth University, Fort Worth, 
Tex.; State Normal School, Mankato, Minn.; Iowa State Normal 
School, Cedar Falls, Iowa; State Normal School, Whitewater. Wis.; 
Mansfield Memorial Museum, Mansfield, Ohio; Leland Stanford Junior 
University, Menlo Park, Cal.; Pennsylvania State Normal School, Mil- 
lersville, Pa. 

The following special collections have also been supplied, namely: 
To the Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales, 73 species of 
echinoderms; to the University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada, 7."> species of 
echinoderms and eadeuterates; to Tuiane University, New Orleans, La., 
L3 species of corals, 27 species of echinoderms, and 23 species of crusta- 
ceans; to the Royal Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, a large 
series of radiates and crustaceans; to the National Deaf-Mute College, 
Kendall Green, Washington, D. C, 37 species of corals, echinoderms, 
hydroids, and sponges. A number of other institutions and of individ- 
uals have likewise been furnished with a few species each, generally 
for purposes of special study or to supply deficiencies in their collec- 
tions. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892, 



By Frederic A. Lucas, Assistant Curator. 



The general work of the year has been, as heretofore, mainly in the 
preparation and arrangement of osteological material, but much has 
been accomplished for the department of vertebrate fossils, the work 
of that department being, so far as the Museum is concerned, carried 
on by the Department of Comparative Anatomy. 

The most important accession of the year was the skeleton of a young 
sperm whale, obtained through the courtesy of the Life-Saving Service, 
from the station at Green Run Inlet, Capt. J. J. Dunton, keeper. Many 
fishes have been received from the IT. S. Fish Commission in connec- 
tion with their work for the World's Columbian Exposition, among 
them a fine tarpon and a specimen of the opah, Lampris lima, the 
latter having a special value as being the first example taken near our 
coast. From the Fish Commission also came an adult bastard logger- 
head turtle, Colpochelys Jcempi, one of the special desiderata in this 
department. A second skeleton of the rare fork-tailed gull, Creagrus 
furcatus, together with other desirable skeletons of birds, was procured 
by Mr. C. H. Townsend, of the Fish Commission steamer Albatross. 

In addition to the regular routine work a new catalogue of verte- 
brate fossils has been commenced, and the greater part of the material 
in that department has been recatalogued, a task that has entailed 
much comparison of specimens with published figures, reference to 
other catalogues, and some necessary identifications. 

This has taken a great deal of the time of the assistant curator, as, 
owing to the smallness of the force, nearly all the work, even to its 
simplest details, has devolved upon him. Twenty lots of recent and 
fossil bones have been reported on, and work has been continued on 
the synoptic exhibition series of invertebrates, both in the preparation 
of specimens and of labels. Comparatively few additions have been 
made to the exhibition series, as the work of the preparators has been 

181 



182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

mainly devoted to material for the study series, and these additions 
have been chiefly skeletons of fishes, that class being at present rather 
poorly represented. It may be said, however, that a number of speci- 
mens were prepared for mounting, which, owing - to the pressure of 
other work, could not be finished. A small number of Auzoux models, 
illustrating certain details of digestion and circulation, have been pur- 
chased for the exhibition series, as well as sonic for use in connection 
with the series of invertebrates. 

The details of the work of the preparators are given in the report of 
the osteological preparatory and it speaks well for the skill and indus- 
try of the assistants that so much has been accomplished in spite of 
the many unavoidable interruptions. 

The ever-increasing care of the collections has prevented any special 
researches, although the assistant curator has devoted a little time to 
the study of the osteology of the Steganopodes, a group of birds unusu- 
ally well represented in the Museum. Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, to whom 
material has been loaned, has continued his work on the osteology of 
North American birds. Material has been furnished to Prof. Cope, for 
his work on North American reptiles, and to the Bering Sea Commis- 
sion in connection with their inquiries concerning the fur seal. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION. 

The present state of the collection is good, but if time admitted and 
space were available, a great deal of work might be most profitably 
done in labeling and arranging the study series. 

The exhibition series is in good shape, but some changes are needed 
in a few of the purchased specimens, and some of the labels should be 
replaced by others more; descriptive in their character. 

The number of specimens on exhibition at the end of the year was 
as follows : 

Skeletons of — 

Mammals 196 

Birds 71 

Reptiles 39 

Batrachians 7 

Elasiiiobranchs and fishes 35 

Skulls of mammals 63 

Other osteological pieces ">8 

Auzoux anatomical models 25 

Total 494 

The number of osteological specimens on exhibition has been lessened 
since the report of 1891 by the transfer of some pieces to the Department 
of Vertebrate Fossils and the temporary withdrawal of a few others. 

* See p. 65. 



DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 



183 



The additions to the collection as shown by entries in the catalogues 
are as follows: 





Last number, June 

ISO— 


Increase. 




1891. 


1892. 






35144 
19002 
29300 


:i5526 
19105 
29325 


382 


Birds 


103 




25 




26085 


26149 


<;4 








Total 




574 







REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS 
IN THE II, S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Lester F. Ward, Honorary Curator. 



The work of the year has been in general a continuation of that out- 
lined in the report for last year, the object in mind being the arrange- 
ment of the specimens in such a manner as to facilitate their consultation 
and study.- The work of rearranging and labeling the Carboniferous 
specimens was continued to some extent, but the Museum assistant, 
Mr. Theo. Holm, has spent the larger part of his time in caring for the 
herbarium. Many specimens have been mounted and added to the 
collection, and it has in other ways been made of greater assistance in 
the study of fossil plants. 

During the year there have been added to the collection more exten- 
sive and valuable accessions than ever before in the history of the de- 
partment of fossil plants. The hist of these is the immense collection 
of Potomac plants turned over by the U. S. Geological Survey through 
Prof. William M. Fontaine, of the University of Virginia. This collec- 
tion, filling thirty-one large boxes, and representing several thousand 
specimens, embraces the entire series of types and duplicates used by 
Prof. Fontaine in the preparation of his elaborate Potomac or Younger 
Mesozoic Flora, which forms Volume xv of the Monographs of the 
U. S. Geological Survey. This flora is a very remarkable and interest- 
ing one. It embraces about 365 species, of which number 75 are dico- 
tyledons of peculiar and archaic types, representing perhaps the oldest 
dicotyledonous flora known in the world. 

At the same time the U. S. Geological Survey, through Prof. Fon- 
taine, turned over the specimens representing the older Mesozoic flora, 
which had been used by Prof. Fontaine in the preparation of Mono- 
graph vi, entitled " Contributions to the Knowledge of the Older Meso- 
zoic Flora of Virginia." This collection was contained in nine boxes, 
and represented several hundred specimens. It is an exceedingly val- 
uable collection, not only because it contains most of tlie types de- 
scribed in the above work, but because it embraces many particularly 

fine if not unique specimens. 

185 



186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

No gift of greater importance to the department of fossil plants has 
ever been made than that by Mr. E. D. Lacoe, of Pittston, Pa., under 
the terms of which his great collection of fossil plants is to be perma- 
nently deposited in the National Museum. The value of this collec- 
tion, one of world-wide reputation, is far greater than that of the entire 
amount of the collections in the department prior to the date of its 
gift. The task of procuring fossil plants from the older formations for 
use in paleontological and biological research has been prosecuted for 
nearly twenty years by its donor, whose liberal means and scientific 
and practical mining knowledge, as well as his favorable location in the 
heart of the northern anthracite coal field, have enabled him to bring 
together an invaluable body of material, of which Prof. Lesqnerenx 
remarked in one of his last publications: * " Mr. B. 33. Lacoe, of Pitts- 
ton, has procured from almost all the localities where coal is worked in 
the United States an immense amonnt of specimens, far beyond any 
seen, even in the largest museums of Europe." Since the above quota- 
tion was written Mr. Lacoe has continued his work, having several col- 
lectors in his employ in various States and the Acadian provinces, a 
portion of the material collected having been examined by Prof. Les- 
quereux. Besides gathering this material in the field, he has also pur- 
chased a number of private collections containing many type speci- 
mens, so that it is perhaps safe to say that nearly one-half of the types 
of the American Carboniferous flora now lie within the Lacoe collec- 
tion. In fact, there are few outstanding American types except those 
resting in several State geological museums. But even the deficiency 
in the balance of originals has largely been compensated for by the 
collection of duplicates from the type localities, and these, like all other 
collections made prior to 1889, were examined and labeled by the orig- 
inal author of nine-tenths of the Paleozoic species described from the 
United States, Leo Lesqnereux. How prominent a part this material 
has taken in both the biological and economic applications may be 
recognized at a glance in the three volumes (especially the third) of 
the "Coal Flora," published with an atlas by the second geological 
survey of Pennsylvania in 1878-1884, Report P. it is sufficient to add 
in this place that within this collection the data for working out the 
geological and geographical distribution of the Carboniferous plant 
species, as far as they can be worked out at the present stage of explo- 
ration, is probably more ample than that of all other American collec- 
tions combined. 

It will at once be seen that the accession of this invaluable wealth 
of material will necessarily make this institution, as the repository of 
the types or authentic specimens of nearly all the American Paleozoic 
species, the reference center for all extensive work ou the Paleozoic 
flora in this country in future, as well as the custodian of valuable geo- 
logical correlation data. But the proper installation in this Museum 



*Ami. Rep. 2d Geol. Surv. Penna., 18St>, Pt, 1, p. 493. 



DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 187 

of so great a collection, numbering about 100,000 specimens, is a matter 
involving much embarrassment in the way of space and study facili- 
ties, it being agreed in the terms of the gift that this collection, to be 
kept entire and known as the •• Lacoe Collection," shall, together with 
all future additions, either by exchange or gift of the donor, be kept in 
order and made accessible to scientists and students without distinc- 
tion, under such proper rales and restrictions ;is may be necessary for 
the preservation from loss or injury of the specimens. 

As constituted at present the collection consists of: (1) Types and 
study specimens; (2) Fine exhibition slabs and specimens; (.">) Boxes 
containing (a) unstudied and (b) duplicate material. The area required 
by the first class, making no allowance either for the future accessions 
or for new material to be found in the boxes not yet examined, amounts 
to over 1,000 drawers of the size in ordinary use in the Museum. The 
exhibition material will occupy about 2,100 square feet. Of the bal- 
ance of the collection, about 80 boxes, a portion only will require 
drawer space, while the remainder may be labeled and made in some 
way accessible as exchange material. 

Arrangements were made whereby, in January and February of this 
year, Mr. David White, assistant paleontologist in theU. S. Geological 
Survey, spent four weeks in Pittston engaged in work preliminary to 
the transfer of the collection. Among the boxes brought back was a 
small portion of the type and study exhibition material. Two eases of 
exhibition material have been arranged and labeled by Mr. White, and 
they now stand in the central rotunda. 

The remainder of the cases brought from Pittston include a large 
quantity of material more or less thoroughly studied by Prof. Lesque 
reux and supposed to represent species either new to science or not 
before found in this country. Most of these unpublished specimens 
examined by Prof. Lesquereux are accompanied by MS. in various 
stages of completion, or notes with some illustrations. All this new 
matter, together with the plants in question, has been placed by Mr. 
Lacoe in the hands of Mr. White, who will assist him in revising, veri- 
fying, and completing the posthumous work for publication. Much 
time and labor will be necessary in the preparation of the MS. and 
additional drawings for the publication, which should appear as soon 
as possible, before this portion of the collection is ready for enrollment 
on the Museum register. Owing largely to tailing health during the 
last years of Prof. Lesquerenx's scientific labors a considerable time 
will need to be spent in going through the collection in a scrutinous 
review. This task, along with the identification of a large quantity oi 
new material, probably requiring five or six months, it is the donor's 
desire to have accomplished before the entire collection is removed 
and enrolled on the Museum books. It can probably be best done in 
Pittston, where Mr. Lacoe w ill be at hand to furnish any needed geo- 
graphical or stratigraphical information. 



188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Iii the removal of so enormous a collection it will perhaps be better 
to transfer it by orders or groups as fast as the necessary scrutiny and 
completion of labels and enrollment are finished. It is therefore de- 
sirable that, whenever the work is renewed, cases may be ready for its 
reception as fast as the material arrives in Washington. 

The separation of the duplicate specimens for exchange will be simul- 
taneous with the review aud registry of the specimens. These should 
be labeled and fully listed before placing them in an accessible storage. 
Several exchanges have already been engaged with American and 
European paleontologists, the specimens for which may be selected 
while the collection is being packed. 

In acquiring the Lacoe collection the Museum not only receives a most 
important paleontological accession, but it becomes the custodian of a 
large mass of unelaborated correlative material, which, if rightly used, 
will prove of great value and aid to scientific and economic geology; and 
this rich possession affords just ground for national scientific pride, 
while the liberal public spirit with which it was given is worthy of 
imitation by all patrons of science. 

My investigations of the local exposures of the Potomac formation, 
as mentioned in my last report, were continued as opportunity afforded 
throughout the year. In September aud October I made, in company 
with several members of the U. S. Geological Survey, an extended 
field trip to Texas and Arkansas with a view of determining the prob- 
able relation of the Trinity formation of those States with the Potomac 
formation. In April I also made another field trip, this time studying 
the Lower Cretaceous formations of Alabama, securing a valuable col- 
lection of fossil plants. Later, in May and June, I made an extensive 
overland journey from the Potomac to the Raritan in New Jersey for 
the purpose of studying the relation of the Potomac of Virginia and 
Maryland and the so-called "Amboy clays" of New Jersey. The results 
were iu every way satisfactory and will be published by the IT. S. 
Geological Survey. 

Mr. Theo. Holm was the Museum assistant for the entire year. His 
time was mainly spent in work on the herbarium, with a view to making 
it of the greatest possible value iu the study of fossil plants. He 
mounted and placed in the cases several hundred sheets of plants, 
largely native trees and shrubs, and at the close of the year was 
engaged upon the duplicate collection in selecting such as it seemed 
desirable to mount for the study series. He had also begun the deter- 
mination of a collection of plants from Morocco, obtained during 1889 
by Mr. Talcott Williams, of Philadelphia. 

Prof. F. H. Knowlton continued during the year his study of the 
Laramie flora, and had well under way at the close a revision of the 
plants of this group, based on the original Lesquereux type specimens 
in the National Museum and large recent collections from Colorado. 
When this work is completed, it is hoped that the Laramie flora will be 



DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS. 189 

placed on a basis that will admit of its extensive geological use. Prof. 
Knowlton also identified and revised, by the aid of Museum material, 
a considerable collection of plants from the Bozeman (Montana) coal 
field and prepared a report which will soon be printed. It enumerates 
forty-four species, five of which are described as new to science. 

The accessions of Upper Paleozoic material, with the exception of the 
fossil woods, have been examined by Mr. David White, who has reported 
on all minor transmittals. In connection with his regular survey work 
Mr. White has also spent a considerable time on the collections sent by 
Dr. J. H. Britts from the tower coal measures of Missouri, and the first 
collection forwarded by L. Graff from Van Buren, Ark., the speci- 
mens being studied by genera, together with those of the Carboniferous 
plant collections of the II. S. Geological Survey now in his hands. The 
work on the Britts collections, which include a number of new or little 
known forms, will probably be completed by the 1st of January. His 
study and other work on the Lacoe collection is mentioned in the part 
of this report relating to that particular collection. 

Mr. Charles S. Prosser was in the field from July 1 to August 26, 
engaged in studying the Middle and Upper Devonian formations of 
Monroe, Pike, and Wayne Counties, Pa., with special reference to the 
flora and fauna. The collection made is of great importance in deter- 
mining doubtful horizons and correcting previous errors. His time in 
the office was largely spent on the compendium of paleobotany which 
has been in preparation for some years in this office. 

An entirely new arrangement of the exhibition series of fossil plants 
was begun. Heretofore the plants had been arranged systematically, 
with a view to illustrating, as far as the material admitted, the origin 
and development of plant life, but it had been found that plants widely 
separated geologically were brought side by side, and it was thought 
best to abolish the botanical and substitute for it the geological ar- 
rangement. Each plan of arrangement has its advantages, but as all 
the other paleontological collections were arranged geologically it 
seemed as well to have the plants conform. The system of placing 
each specimen on an ebonized block was also abandoned as unsatisfac- 
tory. 

As the exhibition series is confined to a single row of table cases in 
the fossil court, nothing like a complete series can be shown, but 
beginning with the lowest plant-bearing rocks, enough specimens were 
placed on exhibition to give a fairly good idea of the predominant 
vegetation of each period. The specimens illustrating the Devonian, 
a part of the Carboniferous, and all of the Potomac were put in the 
cases. The last-named flora, that of the Potomac, is very fully exhib- 
ited on account of its peculiar types of vegetation. The other forma- 
tions will be as fully illustrated as the space will admit. 

The flora of the Dakota Group, by the late Prof. Leo Lesquereux, 
as announced in the last annual report, was printed during the year. 



190 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

It forms Monograph xvn of the U. S. Geological Survey. The larger 
part of the type specimens upon which it is based is now the property 
of the Museum. Of these not now here, many are in the lately donated 
collection of Mr. R. D. Lacoe and will be brought here shortly. A few 
of the types are in the Museum of the University of Kansas, but by 
the kindness of the chancellor. Prof. F. H. Snow, duplicates, in some 
cases better than the originals, have been donated, so that the Museum 
now has probably the most complete collection extant representing this 
flora. 

Prof. William M. Fontaine, of the University of Virginia, has worked 
up a small but very interesting collection of plants from the Kootanie 
beds at Great Falls, Mont. Several species and varieties are found 
to be new, and the whole collection has been described and discussed 
in an illustrated paper which is about to be published in the u Proceed- 
ings of the National Museum." 

Several exceptionally tine specimens of a gigantic fossil alga (Nema- 
tophyton crassum), obtained by Mr. Charles S. Prosser, at Skunnemunk 
Mountain, near Monroe, Orange County, N. Y., have been made the 
basis of a special study by Prof. 1). P. Penhallow, of McGill University, 
Montreal, Canada. His paper, illustrated by a number of photomicro- 
graphs, is also about to be published in the " Proceedings of the 
National Museum." 

In Lesquereux's Tertiary Flora (p. 70, PI. lxiii, Figs. 1, Id) there 
was described and figured a peculiar silicitied fossil plant from near 
Golden, Colo., under the name of Zamiostrobus mirabilis. This speci- 
men, No. 100 of the catalogue of fossil plants in the National Museum, 
was, by request, loaned to H. Graf zu Solms-Laubach. professor of bot- 
any in the University of Strasburg, Germany, who was making a 
special study of all the fossil cycadean stems and fruits of the world. 
He had several large thin sections cut from the specimen and gave it a 
thorough microscopical study, which resulted in his changing the name 
to Cycadeoidea pamiostrobus. The specimen has been returned with 
several microscopical preparations. 

In addition to the Lacoe collection, about 25,000 specimens have been 
added to the collection of the department during the year, making a 
total increase of about 125,000 specimens. 

The last catalogue entry lor June, 1891, is 3,503, and for June, 1892, is 3,598, an 
increase of 95 entries. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF PALEOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 



By ('. 1>. W'AIX'OTT, Honorary Curator. 



The year's work, in its bearings upon the collections, has been very 
much the same as for 1890-'91, when I reported that it was indirect 
rather than direct, owing to the necessity for niy completing certain 
work for the U. S. Geological Survey. Large quantities of material 
have been received from the collectors of the Survey, much of which 
has been placed in storage awaiting an opportunity to have it elaborated 
and transferred to the Museum. During the month of duly, 1891, the 
collection of Cambrian and Ordovician fossils, belonging to the exhibi- 
tion series, was completed and placed on exhibition and a large number 
of labels written for it. And at various times during the year addi- 
tions of individual specimens were made to the exhibition series. 

In the laboratory considerable time was given to painting the record 
numbers on the specimens belonging to the accessions of previous 
years that had not been fully recorded, and in the preparation for study 
of a large amount of material obtained by the collectors of the Geo- 
logical Survey. Owing to the crowded condition of the laboratoryand 
the want of exhibition space, more attention was given to the prepara- 
tion of material for future study and exhibition than to the immediate 
incorporating of it into the exhibition series. 

Mr. Oscar Hinrichs, jr., was employed during the year in his various 
duties connected with the laboratory and the exhibition series — enter- 
ing, numbering, and labeling the accessions, writing cards for the exhi- 
bition specimens, etc. 

Dining the week of the meeting of the International Congress of 
Geologists (in August) many of the leading paleontologists and geol- 
ogists of Europe visited and examined the collections of fossils in the 
Museum. They commented most favorably on the Museum exhibition 
and also on the large amount of line material in the various labora- 
tories. 

Reference to the papers published by me during the year is made in 
the Bibliography (Section iv). 

During the year 29 accessions were received. A list of them is here 
given. 

191 



192 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

LIST OF ACCESSIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1891-'92. 

Specimens. 
Acc. 23938. From E. A. Hauske, Bellevue, Iowa, oiie Crinoid and one small shell, 
found in Pennsylvania. (Returned to registrar. Of little value without exact 

locality ) 2 

Acc. 24356. From A. W. Barker, Orlando, Fla. (Returned to registrar, to be re- 
ferred to Dr. W. H. Dall. ) 
Acc. 24597. From Australian Museum, Sydney, Australia. (Not examined. ) 
Acc. 24609. From Sv. Leonh. Tornquist, Lund, Sweden. (Not examined.) 
Acc. 24610. From D. H. Chapin, Baltimore, Md. : 
Hamilton group : 
Phacops rana 1 

Acc. 24641. From Herbert E. Brock, Mason City, Iowa: 
Devonian : 

Spirifera (?) 6 

cyrtiniformis 2 

orestes 2 

whitneyi Hall . . .• 2 

hungerfordi Hall 2 

Cyatbophyllum sp 3 

Atrypa reticularis Linnaeus 3 

aspera Schlotheim 2 

Streptorhynchus chemungensis 2 

Orthis iowensis Hall 2 

Cryptonella calvini 3 

Strophodonta demissa Conrad 2 

exilis 3 

arcuata, Hall 2 

Bellerophon ( ? ) sp ( ?) 2 

Productus dissimilis Walcott 2 

Strophodonta reversa Hall 3 

Naticopsis gigantea Hall and Whitf. 2 

45 

Acc. 24652. From Charles Yale, Louisiana, Mo. One Orthoceras (purchased) 1 

Acc. 24837. From Geo. R. Bryan, (bequest of O. N. Bryan), Marshall Hall, Charles 

Co., Md. 39 species. 105 specimens. 

Acc. 24855. From Joseph A. Young, Bellevue, Iowa. Pentremites sp 4 

Acc. 24935. From Willie B. Tate, 1459 Florida avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Brachiopod ( Paleozoic) 1 

Acc. 25058. From Elmer Rambo, Lower Providence, Pa. Pentremites sp 12 

Acc. 25061. From Edward S. Golson, South Saginaw, Mich. Several species of 

Silurian corals from drift 15 

Acc. 25155. From Walter D. Wilcox, 127 College street, New Haven, Conn. : 
Middle Cambrian : 

Acrotreta gemma var. depressa Walcott 3 

Agnostus interstrictua White 2 

Alga3(?) . 1 

Acrothele subsidua White 2 

Hyolithes sp 2 

Hyolithellus sp 7 

Graptolite 2 



DEPARTMENT OF PALEOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 193 

Ace. 25155. From Walter D. Wilcox, etc. — Continued. 
Middle Cambrian — Continued. 

Hypostoma sp . , 3 

Kutorgina, like K. sterlingensis 2 

Lingulella macconnelli 3 

Orthisina alberta 1 

Sponge 2 

Scenella sp 3 

Ogygopsis klotzi (?) 23 

Ptychoparia cordillene 7 

sp 2 

Bathyuriscus bowelli Walcott 5 

Olenoides nevadensis Walcott 12 

Zachanthoides spinosus 6 



Ace. 25288. From Henry G. Bryant, 1227 Nerth Broad street, Philadelphia, Pa. : 
Middle Cambrian : 

Paradoxides bennetti 1 

Ace. 25325. From Dr. Karl Rominger, Ann Arbor, Mich. : 
Middle Cambrian : 

Ogygopsis klotzi Rominger 130 

Bathyuriscus bowelli Walcott 13 

Olenoides nevadensis Meek 5 

148 

Aec. 25496. From Benjamin Vail, 344 E street NE., Washington, I). C. : 

Calymene senaria 1 

Ace. 25500. From Williamsburg Scientific Society, through Louis Kirsch, presi- 
dent, Brooklyn, N. Y. Rock specimen containing specimens of bracbiopods. 

Aec. 25502. From F. A. Randall, Warren, Pa. 

Ace. 25508. From Herbert E. Brock, Mason City, Iowa : 

Physetocrinus ventricosus 1 

Dichocrinus inornatus 1 

Strotocriuus segilops 1 

Dorycrinus parvus 2 

Eretmocrinus verneuilanus 1 

Strotocriuus regalis 1 

Agariococrinus tuberosus 2 

Batocrinus sequi brachiatus 3 

12 

Aec. 25514. From Dr. J. H. Lemon, New Albany, Ind. Fossil shells, mostly dupli- 
cates of the Museum collection 400 

Ace. 25523. From L. C. Lane, Frankfort, Ky. Fossil sliells 

Ace. 25590. From Williamsburgh Scientific Society, through Louis Kirsch, presi- 
dent, Brooklyn, N. Y. Brachiopod 1 

Ace. 25607. From Mrs. L. M.Tucker, Ortouville, Mich. Corals (from drift) 14 

Ace. 25617. From Frank Russell, Iowa City, Iowa. Pentamerus decussatus 
Whiteaves 8 

Ace. 25630. From Geo. U. S. Hovey, White Church, Kans. Productus symetricus. 
(Returned.) 1 

H ? Mis. 114, pt. 2 13 



194 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Ace. 25655. From Frank Russell, Iowa City, Iowa: 

Corals 41 

Protozoa sp ., 6 

47 

Ace. 25670. From New York State Museum, through Prof. J. M. Clarke. 
Ace. 25683. From Herbert E. Broek, Mason City, Iowa. 
Ace. 25711. From Chas. Miller, jr., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

The catalogue numbers taken up were from 24059 to 24153, both in- 
clusive; but many additional numbers will be used wheu the unfin- 
ished accessions have been prepared for record. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MESOZOIC INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 



By C. A. White, Honorary Curator. 



During the past year, as in preceding years, the work of this divi- 
sion has been done wholly by members of the U. S. Geological Survey; 
and yet the usual routine, and much of the special work pertaining to 
it, has been fully attended to. 

The fossil collections have continued to increase during the year, the 
most important accession having been received from the U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey. This accession (No. 25725) embraces 10,566 specimens 
and includes some of the most important paleontological material which 
has been studied by members of the Survey. A large part of this 
accession is now placed in the exhibition series, and more of it will be 
similarly placed as soon as time for the work can be spared. 

The entries in the Museum catalogue for the year range from 21752 

to 22170. 

195 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY 
IN THE IT. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By Dr. George Vasey, Honorary Curator. 



The report now presented constitutes my fourth annual report relat- 
ing to the National Herbarium. 

The growth of the herbarium has been steady, although the per cent, 
of increase has not equaled that of last year. The herbarium has 
practically been rearranged during the past year. New genus-covers 
and genus-labels have been substituted for the old ones. The labels 
are printed either in black or red. The black label implies that the 
genus belongs to North America north of Mexico; the red label 
implies that the genus is foreign. These are divided into two groups: 
Mexican and South American, and Old World. Each is placed in a 
separate genus-cover. The native and foreign genera are not other- 
wise separated. The species under each genus, as a rule, are arranged 
alphabetically; in some American genera of which there are recent 
monographs, the species are arranged systematically, with an alpha 
betic index to the species. The Phanerogams have been arranged 
according to Dmand's Index. 

The Ferns are arranged by genera according to Hooker's Species 
Filicum. In the case of the Mosses, Liverworts, and Lichens the gen- 
era are arranged alphabetically. 

The Fungi are represented by 10,397 specimens and contain 6,424 
species. They are now kept in the Division of Vegetable Pathology, 
Department of Agriculture. 

The Mosses aud Liverworts have all been remounted during the 
past two years. These are kept in tight pockets. Six of these pockets 
belonging to one species are glued upon a single sheet of the standard 
size of mouuting paper and filed away, as ordinary herbarium speci- 
mens. The number of pockets of Mosses in the herbarium at the pres- 
sent time is 8,154, and of Liverworts 1,300. 

The mounted specimens are almost free from all kinds of herbarium 
pests. Our duplicate collections, however, were threatened with 
destruction by what the entomologist of the Department of Agriculture 
considered a new genus of insects, probably introduced with specimens 

197 



198 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

sent from the dry regions of western Mexico. The pest is a small 
geoinetrid larva about 8 mm long. In order to get rid of this larva, a 
wooden box with close-fitting top was prepared, of the following dimen- 
sions : 4 feet long by 20 inches wide and 2 feet deep. This box was 
then filled with bundles of plants, a cup holding about half a gill of 
bisulphide of carbon was placed with them, covered, and allowed to 
remain for twenty-four hours or more. This operation was repeated 
until all the duplicates had been poisoned. Our large collections are 
treated in this manner when they first arrive. 

During the year a card catalogue of all the botanical works in the 
libraries to which this department has access, has been begun. Already 
the library of the Department of Agriculture has been catalogued, and 
many of the books in the Library of Congress and the library of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The accessions received during the year ending June 30, 1802, num- 
ber 512 (catalogue Xos. 001 to 1503), of which 41 were received through 
the National Museum (as shown in the tabulated statement accompany- 
ing this report); the rest, mostly from collectors employed by the De- 
partment of Agriculture. The following are some of the more impor- 
tant accessions: 

Two sets of Pringle's Mexican collection, of 2X7 species each, one obtained by dona- 
tion and one by purchase. 

About 50 specimens from Dr. Charles Mohr, mostly ballast plants collected about 
Mobile, Alabama. 

A set of 47 Californian species, from J. (J. Lemmon, obtained by donation. 

A set of 60 species from C. V. Piper, of Washington, obtained by exchange. 

A set of 33 specimens of eastern United States plants obtained by donation from 
William M. Canby. 

A set of 107 specimens obtained by exchange from G. McCarthy. 

A collection of 2,150 specimens made by Frederick V. Coville on the Death Valley 
Expedition. 

A set of 285 species obtained by purchase from A. A. Heller. 

A set of 450 species of New Zealand plants, sent by J. F. Chcescman. 

A set of 125 species of African plants obtained by donation from J. M. Wood, 
Natal, Africa. 

A collection of 776 Californian species from S. B. Parish, obtained by exchange. 

A set of 470 South American plants obtained by purchase from Thomas Morong. 

A set of 1,340 specimens from C. Copineau, of Paris, obtained by exchange. 

A set of 297 species from the Malay peninsula obtained by purchase from C. Curtis. 

A set of 1,709 specimens, collected by G. C.Nealley in Texas and Arizona. 

A set of 2,530 specimens from United States and Europe, obtained by exchange and 
purchase from J. M. Holzinger. 

A set of 250 plants, collected by Dr. E. A. Mearns, IT. S. A., in Minnesota and Texas. 

A set of 3,521 specimens from Mexico and Arizona, collected by Dr. Edward 
Palmer. 

A set of 733 plants collected in the Indian Territory by C. S. Sheldon. 

A set of 615 specimens collected by F. F. Wood in Minnesota and Canada. 

A set of 106 plants collected by S. M. Tracy in Mississippi. 

A set of 1,793 specimens collected in Nebraska by P. A. Rydberg. 



DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY. 



199 



A set of Canadian plants numbering 233, collected by J. M. Macoun. 

A set of 425 specimens collected by T. E. Wilcox in Arizona. 

A set of 28 plants collected by E. P. Sheldon in Minnesota. 

A sot of 1,411 specimens from Arizona, collected by D. T. McDongal. 

A set of 15,191 plants collected by J. H. Sandbergand assistants in .Minnesota and 
Idaho. 

A set of 2,011 specimens collected in Florida by J. II. Simpson. 

A set of 1,590 specimens collected by M. A. Car let on in Kansas, Oklahoma, and 
New Mexico. 

A set of 93 specimens from E. L. Greene, collected in California, Washington, and 
Alaska. 

A set of 144 specimens collected by G. A. Holzinger in North Dakota. 

A set of 140 plants (United States and foreign) collected by H. A. Green. 

The total number of specimens received from all sources is 53,384. 

The number of specimens mounted and distributed into the collec- 
tions is about 12,000. 

The number of packages sent out from the herbarium is 335. The 
number of herbarium specimens sent to college museums, experimental 
stations, etc., is 15,748. 

The number of plants remaining in the duplicate collection is about 
75,000. 

The following - table will show a comparison of the work with the two 
previous years: 

Comparative statistics of the herbarium for the years 18'>n. 1891, 1S92. 



1891. 



1892. 



Specimens received 21, '.'AC* 

suit in experimental stations, etc 7. 951 

Number of accessions 370 



40, 90:5 
8, 456 

621 



53, 384 

i:..7ix 
512 



The following list indicates the accessions to this department which 
were received directly by the National Museum: 



Cata- 
logue 
No. 



1003 
1024 
1038 
1049 
1050 
1051 
1073 
1076 
1077 
1112 
1134 
1172 
1214 
1230 
1248 



Acces- 
sion Nil. 

125o 


Date. 


July 7 


245.",:, 


July 14 


24614 


July 21 


12S6 


.1 uly 24 


1294 


.'..do .... 


1298 


...do .... 


1307 


Aug. 1 


1315 


Aug. 3 


24673 


...do .... 


1352 


Aug. 24 


'J4727 


Aug. 31 


24044 


Sept. 25 


1468 


Oct. 16 


24957 


Oct 28 


1507 


Nov. 6 



Name of Bender. 



F. ti. Arthur 

Mrs. C. M. Ferry 
C.G.Pringle 

Una re and Felt 

.1. A. Field 

F. E. Knowles 

Mrs. I.. T. Eggleston 

Mrs. H. M. Case 

Ernest Walker 



C. 1!. Bryan 



A. Duges 

Mrs. J. A. Sherman 

M.O. Bear 

Aukland Museum 
A. ( ;. Sanders 



Num- 
ber of 

species. 

1 

I 

287 

1 
1 
9 
1 

1 



14 

404 

1 

450 

3 



200 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Cata- 
logue 
No. 


Acces- 
sion No. 


Date. 


Name of sender. 


Num- 
ber of 
species. 


1261 


1519 

25035 

25084 

25079 

25080 

1547 

1567 

25267 

25288 

1607 

1610 

1611 

25404 

1547 

1633 

25436 

25510 

1653 

1664 

25601 

25578 

25709 

1725 

1733 

1732 

1737 


Nov. 13 
...do .... 

Nov. 28 
...do .... 


F. E. Knowles ' 


5 


1262 




1 


1281 




6 


1282 


do 




1283 


.. do .... 


do 


84 


1285 


Dec. 3 

Dec. 29 
Jan. 11 
Feb. 8 
Feb. 15 
Feb. 20 
Feb. 23 
Feb. 24 
Feb. 25 
Mar. 19 
Mar. 31 
Apr. 6 
Apr. 7 
Apr. 13 
Apr. 23 
May 4 
May 18 
June 3 
June 8 

...do.... 

...do... 




1 


1300 


D.O. Stovall 


1 


1319 


R. R. Gurlev 


19 


1342 


H. G. Bryant 


2 


1346 


W. P. Barratt 


1 


1351 




1 


1352 


"W. T. Lander 


1 


1354 


Miss M. J. Ratbbun 


87 


1355 




] 


1386 


G. S. Thomson 


19 


1391 


0. Tollin 


5 


1399 




1 


1400 




1 


1403 


C. B. Bash 


3 


1415 






1429 




30 


1449 




1 


1475 


A. D. Foy 


4 


1479 


]'.. S. Da vis 


1 


1480 




1 


1481 




1 









REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 



By F. W. Clarke, Honorary Curator. 



Probably no year has been more productive of good results in the 
department of minerals than the one now ended. A large part of the 
systematic exhibition series has been remounted on ebonized blocks, 
replacing the former white paper trays; and soon the entire series will 
be so displayed. Several cases of this series have been supplied with 
printed specimen labels, and the work of labeling is still in progress. 

A large double case has been substituted for the small single gem- 
case, so that now the collection of gems and semi-precious stones, num- 
bering 2,215 specimens, is contained in two large double mahogany 
cases. Of this collection 1,717 specimens are on exhibition. 

Many specimens belonging to the reserve and duplicate series had 
accumulated in drawers stacked up in the mineral laboratory. The 
reserve specimens have been transferred to the cases in the exhibition 
hall, and the duplicates have been disposed of by restocking the cases 
containing the classified duplicates, and by packing and sending the 
remainder to storage; of these last there were 7,823 specimens. The 
systematic duplicate series has been thoroughly overhauled and reclas- 
sified, and it has been much improved by rejecting inferior specimens 
and adding new and better material. This series is now used largely 
for improving the collection by means of exchanges with other museums 
and private collectors. During the year exchanges of 371 specimens 
of minerals have been made with 13 different parties and 61 specimens 
have been sent out as gifts, making a total disbursement of 432 speci- 
mens. 

Considerable time has been consumed in selecting and preparing the 
mineral and gem series to be exhibited at the World's Columbian Expo- 
sition in Chicago. The scheme for this exhibit is subjoined: 

1. A series of crystallized minerals to illustrate the crystal form of 
minerals, (a) Crystals not attached; (b) distinctive crystals on matrix ; 
(c) crystal groups. 

2. A series illustrative of the twinning of crystals. 

3. A series to illustrate the irregularities of crystals. 

4. A series of crystalline aggregates. 

201 



202 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

5. A series of mineral pseudomorphs. 

6. A series to illustrate cleavage and fracture. 

7. A series to illustrate diaphaneity, color and lustre. 

8. A series of gems and ornamental stones. 

ACCESSIONS. 

Among the most important accessions, mention may be made of the 
following: 

Twenty-live boxes of minerals from Pennsylvania, the gift of Joseph Willcox, of 
Philadelphia. (Aec. 24802.) 

A suite of 11 specimens of minerals from Branchville, Conn.; 1 specimen from 
Salisbury, Conn., and 1 specimen from Brewsters, N. Y., the gift of Prof. 8. L. Pentield, 
«»f Yah' University. (Ace. 25202.) 

Four specimens of ornamental stones and 1 specimen of chnrchite, the gift of 
Mr. Clarence S. Bement, of Philadelphia. (Ace. 25395.) 

A crystal of spangolite from Tombstone. Ariz., the gift of Prof. S. L. Penfield, of 
Yale University. (Acc.25421.) 

Two cut specimens of transparent spessartite from Amelia C. H., Va., the gift of 
Mr. Ira R.Allen, of Fair Haven, Xt. (Ace. 25739.) 

Three specimens of native gold from the Potomac Mine, Montgomery Co., Md., 
deposited by Mr. A. B. Russ, of Washington, D. C. (Ace. 24805.) 

Twenty-nine specimens of ornamental stones from various localities, purchased 
of Mr. W. J. Knowlton, of Boston, for the World's Columbian Exposition. (Ace. 
2151."..) 

Thirty-two specimens of minerals from various localities, nine of them for the 
World's Columbian Exposition, purchased of H. A. Ward, of Rochester. (Ace. 
24778 and 24779.) 

Eleven gems from Maine and Xew Hampshire, bought of Mr. T. F. Lamb, of Port- 
laud, for the World's Columbian Exposition. (Ace. 24927.) 

Nineteen specimens of minerals from various localities purchased of Messrs. 
English & Co., New York City, for the World's Columbian Exposition. (Ace. 
2 IS lit. ) 

In addition to the foregoing, several lots of minerals have been 
received from the U. S. Geological Survey. 

The condition of the collection, with the exception of the study 
scries, which is only partly classified, is very satisfactory. The sys- 
tematic exhibition series of minerals is displayed in twenty-two mahog- 
any and plate-glass double slope-top cases, arranged in rows in the 
exhibition hall. The series is arranged mainly according to Dana's 
system, and each specimen is mounted on an ebonized wooden block, 
li inches thick, on the beveled front of which is fastened a gray card- 
board label, clearly printed, giving the name of the species, its variety, 
the locality of the specimen, the name of its donor or collector, and its 
catalogue number. 

When the installation has been completed, the series will be provided 
with species labels, indicating the chemical composition of each species, 
its crystallographic form, hardness, specific gravity, its varieties with 
tlieir characteristics, and any additional information which maybe of 
public interest. 



DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS. 203 

The ornamental stone collection is displayed in single specimens and 
in groups, on black and white plush pads, each specimen or group 
having - a card-hoard label beneath it. 

The meteorite collection consists at present of an exhibition series 
only, no attempt having yet been made to separate from it a study or 
a duplicate series, though many exchanges have been made by which 
the collection has been largely built up. It is installed in mahogany 
wall-cases with plate-glass fronts, each specimen occupying a black 
tray with a beveled front, the bottom of which is lined with dark red 
billiard cloth. The labels are of French gray card-board, like those of 
the systematic mineral series, and give similar information, the date of 
the fall or find being added when known. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION. 

The condition of the collection at present is as follows: 

Specimens in the recent accession case 64 

Specimens in the systematic series 3, 395 

Specimens in the Lea collection of micas 3S4 

Specimens in the case of duplicates 57 

Specimens in the meteorite collection 1ST 

Specimens in the Shepard collection of meteorites 447 

Casts of meteorites 9 

Pedestal specimens 10 

Specimens in the wall-case series 195 

Specimens in the collection of gems and semi-precious stones 1, 717 

Photographs 13 

Total 6, 469 

IX THE STUDY SERIES. 

Specimens in the systematic series 12, 575 

Specimens in the Lea collection of micas 1, 052 

Specimens of gems and ornamental stones 498 

Total 1J, 125 

IN THE DUPLICATE SERIES. 

Specimens in the systematic scries 8, 153 

Specimens in storage 7. 823 

Casts of meteorites 3 

Total 15, 979 

Total numher of specimens in the collection 36, 375 

Dining the year 1,454 entries on the catalogue have been made, rep. 
resenting 4,121 specimens. Of these, 3,350 were assigned to the reserve 
series, 7C3 to the duplicate series, and 8 were rejected. Nineteen were 
specimens reentered by mistake and 30 were specimens belonging to 
the old collection. The last catalogue entry, June 30, 1891, w as 501 88; 
June 30, 1802, 51042. 



REPORT ON" THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY 
IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



By George P. Merrill, Curator. 



As during the previous year, a considerable proportion of our time 
has been occupied in the arrangement of the exhibition series. This 
work was interrupted during the months of November, December, and 
January by the laying of the new pavements in the south-west court 
and west-south range. This necessitated moving all the floor-cases in 
both halls, aud, incidentally, nearly every specimen, since specimens and 
labels were as a rule displaced by the jar caused by moving the cases, 
or else were so covered with dust as to necessitate thorough cleansing. 
Aside from the mere delay here involved, fully two months were actu- 
ally lost, so far as advance of work was concerned, in restoring the col- 
lections to their original conditions. 

A very important work of the year has been the preparation of some 
two hundred sets of duplicates for gratuitous distribution. In addition 
to the immense quantity of duplicate matter received from the Centennial 
Exposition at Philadelphia in 1876, there has since accumulated much 
other valuable material, and the long-deferred time seemed to have 
actually arrived when the department could begin to respond to its 
many applications. In order, however, that the collections might be 
to some extent systematic, several collecting trips were undertaken 
during the late summer and fall. Mr. W. H. Newhall was thus engaged 
in New Jersey and Virginia in August and September, and the curator 
made brief trips into New Jersey, Maine, and Massachusetts on similar 
errands. The collections thus obtained are noted under the head of 
accessions. The following list shows the character of the material put 
into these series : 

205 



206 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



List of duplicate rocks and ores distributed by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the' 

National Museum. 

[Note. — These collections have been made systematic as far as the duplicate material was available 
for the purpose. The specimens included in this set are indicated by a check mark ( \/). With each 
specimen is wrapped a label, giving its name and that of the locality in which it was obtained] 



No. of 
speci 



Locality. 



Gold cire. Auriferous sulphurets 

Gold ore. Auriferous sulpharsenides in quartz . 

Gold ore. Auriferous sulphurets in quartz 

Gold-silver ore. Quartz with auriferous and 
argentiferous sulphurets. 

Gold-silver ore. Siliceous rock with aurifer- 
ous and argentiferous sulphurets. 

Silver ore. Ruby silver and stephanite in 
quartz. 

Silver ore. Granitic rock carrying silver chin- 
ride. 

Silver ore. Hard carbonate ore 

Silver-lead ore. Argentiferous galena 

do 

do 

Silver copper ore. Argentiferous chalcopyrite 

Lead-zinc ore. Galena and sphalerite 

Lead-zinc ore. Galena, blende and mispickel 
in quartz. 

Lead-zinc-copper ore. Galena, sphalerite, and 
chalcopyrite. 

Zinc ore. Calamine 

Zinc ore. Sphalerite -... 

Zinc ore. Smithsonite 

Zinc ore. Willemite, zineite, and franklinite. .. 

Copper ore Chalcopyrite 

do 

do 

Copper ore. Nativecopper infeldsitic conglom- 
erate. 

( 'opper ore. Native copper in melaphyr 

Nickel ore. Nickeliferous pyrrhotite 

Nickel-copper ore. Nickeliferous pyrrhotite 
and chalcopyrite. 

Nickelore, Oxidized ore. i Erythrite, Anaber- 
gite. etc.) 

Silver-lead ore. Cerussite 

Tin ore. Cassiterite with wolfram and pyro- 
lusite. 

Pyrite. For making sulphuric acid 

do 

Pyrite and chalcopyrite. For making sul- 
phuric a< id. 

Iron ore. Red hematite 

Iron ore. Magnetite 

do 

Iron ore. Hematite, specular iron ore 

Iron ore. Siderite 

Iron ore. Limonite 

do 

Iron ore. Hematite. Called fossil ore 



Gilpin County, Colo. 

Kern ( 'ounty. Cal. 

Mariposa ( 'ounty, Cal. 

< lomstock Lode, Storey ( iounty, New 

French District, Owyhee County, Idaho. 

Keese Kiver District, Lander County, Nov. 

Colorado. 

Lead\ ille. Lake County, Colo. 

Utah. 

Hidden Treasure Mine, Utah. 

Montana. 

Pocahontas Mine, Fremont ( Ounty. Colo. 

Portugal. 

Dona Ana County, N. Mex. 

Do 

Friedensville, Pa. 

Do. 
Austria ( ?)• 

Franklin Furnace, Sussex ( 'ounty. N. J. 
Queensland, Australia. 
Dona Ana County, N. Mex. 
Ely, Orange County, Vt. 

Calumet and Hecla Mine, Lake Superior, Mich- 
igan. 
Lake Superior, Michigan. 
Gap Mine. Lancaster County. Pa. 
Modum, Norway. 

Lovelocks, ( Ihurchill < 'ounty. Nov. 

T'tah and Nevada. 

Temescal, San Bernardino County, Cal. 

Rio Tinto, Portugal. 

Louisa < 'ounty. Va. 
Do, 

Giles ( ounty, Va. 

Essex County, NY. 

Sweden. 

Marquette County. Mich. 

Germany. 

Do. 
Lawrence County, Ind. 
Tennessee. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 



207 



List of duplicate rocks and ores distributed by the Smithsonian Institution <>u behalf of the 
National Museum — Continued. 



No. of 
speci 



Name. 



Locality 



Manganese ore. Impure wad 

Manganese ore 

Ferro-nianganese 

do 

Native sulphur 

Mercury ore. Cinnabar 

Chromite. Chrome iron ore, 

Anthracite coal. Graphitic 

do 

Bituminous coal •- 

Cannel coal 

Graphite 

Emery lock 

Phosphatic sandstone South Carolina 

Massive apatite Canada. 

do Norway. 

Rock salt Petite Anse, La 



Tennessee. 

Do. 
Italy 
Austria. 

Rabbit Hole Mine. Humboldt County, Nev. 
California. 
Shasta County, Gal 
Newport, R. 1. 
Schuylkill County, Pa. 
West Virginia. 
Kentucky. 

Buckingham, Quebec, ( lanada. 
Chester, Hampden County. Mass. 



Kaolin 

Biotite granite 

do 

do 

Biotite muscovite granite 

Orbicular granite 

Hornblende syenite (drift) 

Elrcolite syenite 

do 

Diabase 

do 

Olivine diabase 

Gabbro 

Diorite 

Norite 

Kersantite 

( lamptonite 

Quartz porphyry 

Liparite (rhyolite) 

do 

Liparite (obsidian) 

do 

Trachyite 

Phonolite 

Hornblende andesite 

Hornblende andesite 

Basalt 

do 

Melaphyr 

Peridotite (picrite) 

Peridotite (hornblende picrite) 

Peridotite (dunite) 

Pyroxinite ~. 

Theralite 

Impure serpentine 

Serpentine 

Serpentine 



Lawrence County, Ind. 

Woodstock, Md. 

Red Beach, near Calais, Me. 

West Concord, X II 
Craftsbury, Vt. 
Cape Elizabeth, Me. 
Litchfield, Me. 
Libertyville, N. J. 
York, Pa. 

Mine La Motte, Mo. 



Keeseville, N. Y. 

Franklin Furnace, Sussex County, N. 

Lewiston, Me. 

Ironton, Mo. 

Yellowstone National Park. 

Zacatecas, Mexico. 

Yellowstone National Park. 

Mono Craters, < !al. 

Silver Cliff, Colo. 

Black Hills, Dak. 

Yellowstone National Park. 

Madison County, Mont. 

Yellowstone National Park. 

Brighton, Mass. 
Little Deer Isle, Me. 
Stoney Point, N. Y. 
Cullasaja, N. C. 
Webster, N. C. 
Crazy Mountain, Mont. 
Chester County, Pa. 
Deer isle. Me. 
Montville, N. J. 



208 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



List of duplicate rooks and ores distributed by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the 
National Museum — Continued. 




95 
96 
97 
98 
99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 
108 
109 
110 
111 
112 
113 
114 
115 
116 
117 
118 
119 
120 
121 
122 
123 
124 
125 
126 



Serpentine 

Serpentine (variety Williamsite) 

Glaucophane rock 

Gneiss with cordierite 

Gneiss 

Amphibolite 

Mica schist 

Quartzite 

Steatite < soapstone) 

Crystalline limestone (marble) . . 

Crystalline dolomite (marble) 

do 

Ophiolite 

Limestone (fossiliferous) 

Limestone (oolitic) 

do 

Limestone (coral) 

Slate 

Gypsum 

Calc Sinter 

Siliceous oolite 

Chert 

Sandstone (Triassic) 

Sandstone (Subearboniferous) ... 

Calcareous conglomerate 

Rhyolite tuff 

...'.do 

Infusorial earth 

do 

Oolitic sand 

Shell sand 

Lapilli 



Locality. 



Easton, Pa. 

Fulton, Lancaster County, Pa. 

Sonoma County, Cal. 

Guilford County, Conn. 

Montgomery County, Md. 

Hanover, N. H. 

West "Washington, D. C. 

Potsdam, N. T. 

Grafton, Vt. 

West Rutland, Vt, 

Westchester, N. Y. 

Lee, Mass. 

Essex County, N. Y. 

Rochester, N. Y. 

Indiana. 

Kentucky. 

Bermuda. 

Buckingham, Quebec, Canada. 

Saltville, Va. 

Yellowstone National Park. 

Center County, Pa. 

Licking County, Ohio. 

Seneca Creek, Md. 

Berea, Ohio. 

Loudoun County, Va. 

Douglas County, Colo. 

Zacatecas, Mexico. 

Pope's Creek. Md. 

Nevada. 

Salt Lake, Utah. 

Hawaiian Islands. 

Mono Craters, Cal. 



Unfortunately it was impossible to make the sets all alike either in 
kind or number. The following list shows the full number included in 
each set as boxed ready for shipment : 




124. 

125. 
126 to 128. 
129 131 . 
132 140. 
Ill 145. 
146 150. 
151 165. 
166 171. 
172 174. 
175 183. 
184 187. 

188. 
189 191. 
192 193. 

194. 

195. 
196 200. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 209 

The work of preparing an exhibit for the World's Columbian Expo- 
sition was entered upon late in September. It was decided that the 
department should, so far as the limited appropriations permitted, 
make an exhibit illustrative of the various phenomena grouped under 
the heads of I, Vulcauology; II, Glaciers and Glaciation, and III, 
Caves and Cave Deposits. 

The general character of the exhibit, as planned, may be understood 
by reference to the outline given below : 

I. Vulcanology. 

(1) Map showing distribution of active volcanoes. 

(2) Map showing areas of volcanic rocks in the United States. 

(3) Photographs and other illustrations of active and extinct volcanoes. 

(4) Diagrams and models showing shape of volcanic cones and lava flows, crater 

lakes, hot springs and geysers, natural scenery as modified by volcanic action. 

(5) Specimens showiug volcanic products; (a) Characteristic forms, as columnar, 

slaggy, pumiceous and glassy lavas, hombs, lapilli, sand, and dust, (b) Kinds 
of lavas, both ancient and modern, (c) Kinds ejected by same volcano at 
different periods of activity. 

(6) Contact phenomena and secondary minerals. 

(7) Economy of volcanoes and allied phenomena (Hot Springs, etc.), as shown by 

chemical products, pozzuolana, building-stone, travertines, ''onyx" mar- 
bles, etc. 

(8) Destructive effects as shown at Pompeii, etc. 

II. Glaciers and Glaciation . 

(1) Views illustrating living glaciers, icebergs, etc. 

(2) Relief map of the United States, showing the ice sheet of the glacial epoch in 

its lobate stage. 

(3) Illustrations of glacial phenomena, as fields covered by drift bowlders; large 

stranded bowlders illustrating direction of drift and transporting power of ice 
sheet; kames, drumlins, etc. 

(4) Specimensshowinggrooving, striation, and polishing; drift clays, sands, gravels, 

and bowlders; scratched bowlders from till. 

(5) Economy of glaciers: View of glaciated landscapes, showing how denudation 

has rendered accessible deeply buried materials; leda clays and their utiliza- 
tion; drift bowlders for building material. 

(6) Destructive effects : Fields covered by bowlders; forests destroyed. [Shown by 

illustrations only.] 

III. Cares anil Can' Deposits. 

(1) Theoretical sketch showing method of formation by solvent action of water. 

(2) Actual plans and sections of caves. 

(3) Cave interiors. Shown by photographs and transparencies. 

(4) Cave deposits (stalactites, stalagmites, etc.). Shown by specimens. These in 

part cut and polished to show color and structural variations. 

(5) The economy of caves. Shown by blocks and slabs of cave marble (stalagmite) ; 

nitrous earths and other salts. 

(6) Cave life. Shown by bats, eyeless fish, crayfish, insects, etc. 

(7) Caves as dwellings. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 14 



210 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The work of obtaining materials illustrative of glacial action in the 
eastern United States was placed in the hands of Prof. W. O. Crosby. 
As the work is still in progress at time of writing, nothing more need 
now be said regarding it. 

For the purpose of collecting materials for this exhibit the curator 
left Washington October 27 for Arizona and New Mexico, returning 
December 10. A large amount of volcanic and cave material was col 
lected during this time, which will be noted under the head of acces- 
sions. May 17 the curator again left on a similar errand, visiting 
caves in Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Missouri. The 
material obtained during this trip was exceptionally good, as well as 
varied in character, but owing to the fact that his absence was pro- 
longed beyond the end of the fiscal year, it cannot here be reported on 
in detail. 

NOTES UPON THE MORE IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS RECEIVED DURING 

THE YEAR. 

One hundred and sixteen regular and 135 temporary accessions were 
received during the year, the regular accessions comprising upwards ol 
4,000 specimens. The more important of these are mentioned below. 
It should be stated that a large share of these materials are designed 
for the duplicate series or for the World's Columbian Exposition. 

Gold and silver ores from Marquette County, Mich. Gift of J. Ropes. 24521. 

Fossiliferous marble from Tennessee. Gift of T. S. Godfrey. 24522. 

Rocks and ores from the quicksilver district of Almaden, Spain. Collected by 
G. F. Becker. 

Silver ore, Colorado. Gift of A. Sadtler. 24546. 

Rock salt, Livingston County, N. Y. Gift of Retsof Mining Company. 24554. 

Crude petroleum, Santa Clara, Cuba. Gift of C. W. Cunningham, U. S. Geological 
Survey. 24580. 

Gneiss with cordierite, Guilford, Conu. Collected by < >. C. Farrington. 24581, 
24639. 

Volcanic rocks, Lower California. Received from Dr. Ed. Palmer. 24600. 

Manganese ore, Tennessee. Gift of 11. Claiborne. 24605. 

Kaolin, Blooinfield, Fla. Gift of Alex. Lynch. 24604. 

Ores and minerals from Utah and Scotland. (Oft of R. Forrester, Scuofield, Utah. 
24611. 

Crude nitrate of soda. Iquique, Chili. Gift of C. H. White. 24619. 

Silver ore, San Bernardino County, Cal. Gift of W. II. Gould. 24638. 

Iron ore, Llano County, Tex. Gift of R. T. Hill. 24642. 

Thirty-four specimens phosphate rock, Florida. Gift of E.Willis. 24640. 

Twenty-four specimens phosphate rock, Florida. Gift of Florida Phosphate Com- 
pany. 24676. 

Zinc ore and barite, Virginia. Collected by G. P. Merrill. 24734. 

Feldspar, New York, Maine, and Delaware. Gift of Golding and Sous. 24720. 

Silver ore, El Pas >, Tex. Gift of W. H. Von Streeruwitz. 24725. 

Stalagmite marble, Washington County, Va, Collected by G. P. Merrill. 24729. 

Copper ores, Huntington, Oregon. Gift of Phillip A. Markson. 24735. 

Asbestos, Knights Ferry, Cal. Gift. of James H. Lowe. 24723. 

Magnetic iron ore, Green County, Ga. Gift oi John C.Hart. 24741. 

Granite, with native copper, Butte, Mont. Gift of C. H. Hand. 24797. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 211 

Two hundred specimens gypsum, Saltville, Va. Gift of W. B. Robertson. 24820. 

Photograph of sandstone dike, Chadron, Nebr. Gift of Prof. Robert Hay. 24881. 

Feldspar, South Glastonbury, Conn. Gift of Charles H. Hall. 24895. 

Elseolite syenite, Beemerville, N. J. Collected by W. H. Newhall. 24903. 

Zinc ores, Franklin, N. J. Collected by W. H. Newhall. 24912. 

Forty-seven specimens ores, England. Received from R. N. Worth. 24794. 

Five hundred specimens calcareous breccia, Loudoun County, Va. Collected by 
W. H. Newhall. 25002. 

Eleven specimens silver ores, New South Wales. Gift of Walter J. Koehler. 
24503. 

Contorted rock, Sugar Loaf Mountain, Maryland. Received from George H. 
Williams. 25057. 

Copper ore, Washington County, Idaho. Gift of C. F. Drake. 25081. 

One hundred specimens melaphyr, Brighton, Mass. Received from George H. 
Barton. 25101. 

Two hundred specimens siliceous oolite, State College, Center County, Pa. Re- 
ceived from George R. Wieland. 25106. 

Twenty-three specimens ores and rocks. El Paso County, Tex. Gift of W.A.von 
Streeruwitz. 25059. 

Silver ore, Sonora, Mex. Gift of John Alexander. 25189. 

Zinc ore and barite, Union County, Tenn. Gift of Philip A. Markson. 25147. 

Thirteen specimens eruptive rocks, etc., Chatham Islaud, Galapagos. Received 
from U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross. 25157. 

Silver ores, Mexico. Gift of W. J. McGee. 25195. 

One hundred and sixty-one specimens rocks and ores from Arizona and New 
Mexico. Collected by G. P. Merrill. 25198. 

(In part) a fine specimeu of native silver from the Black Hawk district, near Sil- 
ver City, N. Mex. Gift of E. M. Hand. 25198. 

Onyx, Yavapai County, Ariz. Collected by G. P. Merrill. 25199. 

Augite rocks. New Haven, Conn. Received from S. Ward Loper. 25200. 

Rocks, Texas. Gift of W. H. von Streeruwitz. 25206. 

Contorted slate, Rutland County, Vt. Received from U. S. Geological Survey. 
25207. 

Yellow ochre, Monroe County, Ala. Gift of Claiborne Ochre Company. 25208. 

Kaolin, Langley, S. C. Gift of T. S. Lamar & Co. 25211. 

Rock salt, Kanopolis, Kans. Gift of Royal Salt Company, James Cowie, super- 
intendent. 25213. 

Silver ore, Charcas, Mexico. Collected by P. L. Jouy. 25212. 

Tin ore and pig tin, Temescal Mine, San Bernardino County, Cal. Gift of Hon. 
W. W. Bowers. 25183. 

Fifteen specimens rocks, Massachusetts. Received from William North Rice. 
25210. 

A large series of volcanic materials, Arizoua and New Mexico. Collected by G. P. 
Merrill. (25226), 25231. 

Fifty-seven specimens ores and rocks, Arkansas. Received from W. P. Jenuey. 
25253. 

Two hundred and ninety-three specimens ores and rocks, Texas, Oregon, New 
Mexico, Cedros Island, Nevada, California, and Colorado. Collected by F. W. 
Crosby. 24310, 

Thirty-seven specimens ores and minerals, various localities. Received from E. E. 
Howell. 25277. 

Zinc ores, Jasper County, Miss. Collected by W. P. Jenney. 25276. 

Forty-six specimeus ores, etc., England. Received from R. N. Worth. 25233. 

Wurtzillite, Emery County, Utah. Gift of Robert Forrester. 25324. 

Volcanic rocks, Peru and Mexico. Gift of Otto P. Pfordte. 25278. 



212 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Red sandstone, Pecos City, Tex. Gift of Pecos Red Sandstone Co. 25351. 

Elteolite syenite, from New Hampshire, and gold ore and coal from Maim'. Gift 
of W. S. Bayley. 25366. 

Ores and rocks, Labrador and Newfoundland. Gift of Henry G. Bryant. 25288. 

Ores and rocks, New Mexico. Collected by G. P. Merrill. 25384. 

Hornblende schist with free gold, Pennington County, S. Dak. Gift of H.John 
Ainley. 25396. 

Shale with rain prints, Durham, Conn. Gift of S. Ward Loper. 25428. 

Granite (4-inch cube), South Brookville, Me. Gift of A. F. Eells. 25430. 

Ore and rocks, Texas. Gift of W. H. von Streeruwitz. 25482. 

Silver and zinc ores, Aspen, Col. Gift of S. L. Pen field. 25261. 

Silver ore, British Columbia and Loess Formation, China. Gift of R. Hitchcock. 
25499. 

A large series of stalactites and stalagmites, Luray, Va. Collected for World's 
Fair exhibit by James H. Morrison. 25517. 

Clays and molding sand, Devonshire, England. Received from R. N. Worth. 
25527. 

Banded argillite, Canyon, Col. Gift of S. Ward Loper. 25546. 

Quartz, Topsham, Me. Gift of Wilson Manufacturing Company. 25585. 

Salt, Lake "El Sal del Rey," Texas. Gift of John G. Bourke, 25619. 

Rocks, New Mexico. Received from W. Lindgren. 25622. 

Magnetite containing native gold, Carroll County, Md. Gift of J. W. Tyson. 
25648. 

Rocks, District of Columbia. Gift of J. W. Langdale. 25673. 

Iron ore, Marquette, Mich. Gift of G. J. Northrup. 25802. 

Iron ore, Siqua iron mines, Santiago de Cuba. Gift of John Vallance, superin- 
tendent. 25803. 

CHARACTER OF ROUTINE WORK. 

The character of the routine work has varied luit little from that of 
preceding years. The work of preparing the duplicate series neces- 
sitated the overhauling' and breaking- up of many of the large ore piles 
that have hitherto cumbered the west front; 30 boxes were also with- 
drawn from storage, and their contents utilized. In process of this 
work some 15,057 specimens of rocks and ores were broken up, trimmed, 
labeled and wrapped ready for packing. The final work of packing 
these 200 sets, though scarcely completed at the end of the fiscal year, 
was so nearly done as to be properly comprehended in this report. 

A large amount of time was devoted to the installation of the economic 
series in the southwest court and which may now for the first time 
claim to be in a condition approximately satisfactory. 

Duplicates have been sent out, mainly in the way of exchanges, as 
follows : 

July 9, 1891, to James Allen, 3 specimens of rocks. 
July 25, 1891, to A. T. Odeneal, 1 specimen of rock. 
August 31, 1891, to M.Mali, Belgian consul, 17 specimens of coal. 
September 3, 1891, to R. N. Worth, 152 specimens of ores. 
September 7, 1891, to C. E. Vawter, 3 boxes (150 pounds). 
September 9, 1891, to George H. Barton, 5 boxes (1,235 pounds). 
September 9, 1891, to E. E. Howell, 183 specimens of rocks. 

September 15,1891, to E. E. Howell, 300 pounds of ores and 3 specimens of slab 
marbles. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 213 

October 9, 1891, to E. E. Howell, 59 specimens of ores. 

October 15, 1891, to K. Forrester, 6 specimens of minerals. 

December 22, 1891, to H.S.Williams, 24 specimens of rocks, 

December 30, 1891, to George R. Wieland, 57 specimens of rocks. 

December 30, 1891, to V. F. Marsters, 51 specimens of rocks. 

February 3, 1892, to W. O. Crosby, 598 specimens of ores. 

March 9, 1892, to II. S. Commissioner of Patents, 34 specimens of petroleum. 

March 21, 1892, to H. S. Williams, 48 specimens of rocks. 

April 2, 1892, to Arizona Onyx Company, 7 specimens of onyx slabs. 

April 4, 1892, to H. T. A. Lemon, 35 specimens of ore fragments. 

April 4, 1892, to Prof. Bigelow, 100 pounds of ore fragments. 

April 9, 1892, to E. E. Howell, 2,600 pounds of rocks and ores. 

April 20, 1892, to Maine State College, 115 specimens of ores. 

April 27, 1892, to S. Ward Loper, 1 specimen of onyx. 

May 17, 1892, to E. E. Howell, 6 specimens of rocks and ores. 

Total, 4,385 pounds and 1,398 specimens of rocks, etc. 

This list does not include the 200 boxes comprising 17,924 specimens 
above referred to. 

The work of identifying- materials sent in by those not connected with 
the Museum continues, as heretofore, to consume its full share of time. 
The following list of special reports will serve to give some idea of the 
extent of this practice. As stated previously, the department can not 
make assays or analyses on such occasions, but whenever possible with- 
out too great an outlay of time, the mineralogical nature of the mate- 
rial has been ascertained and the applicant referred elsewhere for infor- 
mation not obtainable here. These reports were made as follows: 

Pyrite. Sent by Cover Orndorn , Mount Olive, Florida. 1248. 

Material lor assay. Sent by J. Goldsmith, Carlisle, N. Mex. 1251. 

Material for assay. From James Palmer, Grantsville, Utah. 1257. 

Material for assay. From Michael Keenan, Springer, N. Mex. 1265. 

Material for determination. Sent by Frank Cook, Huston, Idaho. 1272. 

Material for determination. Sent by J. H. Pisor, Horr, Mont. 1276. 

Iron ore. Sent by L. K. Yeatts, Elva, Va. 1283. 

Rocks for determination. Sent by Mrs. M. L. Narrin, Goodrich, Mich. 1288. 

Fire clays. Sent by Miss L. A. B. Cornuck, Genito, Va. 1287. 

Pyrite. Sent by H.Warren A- Son, Oregon, Lincoln County, Tenu. 1292. 

Clay. Sent by F. G. King, 60 Park avenue, Rochester, N. Y. 1297. 

Material for assay. Sent by Geo. W. Bullene, Seattle, Wash. 1301. 

Supposed tin ore. Sent by Emil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. 131(1. 

Phosphates. Sent by C. D. Galvin, New York City. 1324. 

Material for assay. Sent by Jones Taylor, of San Bernardino, Cal. 1325. 

Rocks for determination. Sent by William Nelson, of Columbia, Va. 1339. 

Quartz. Sent by J. B. Copeland, of Harrisburg, Pa. 1311. 

Material for assay. Sent by M. A. Geiger, Silver. Wash. 1343. 

Pyrite. Sent by Abram Brown, Rohrerstown, Pa. 1345. 

Material for assay. Sent by C. D. Galvin, New York. 1351. 

Clays. Sent by S. E. Wilkes, Charlie Hope, Va. 1354 . 

Iron ore and bituminous shales. Sent by John Somers, Cle-Elum, Wash. 1360. 

< >< ■herons clay. Sent by J. C. Chesney, Northumberland, Pa. 1361. 

Ancient marbles. Sent for identification by Hermann Jaske, Dayton. Ohio. L368, 

Manganese and iron ores. Sent by B. S. Belcher, Ada, W. Va. 1369. 



214 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Material for assay. Sent by M. V. Harris, Cherry Creek, Miss. 1371. 

Material for assay. Sent by W. B. Gibbs, Jackson, W. Va. 1380. 

Material for assay. Sent by Cassady Linthicum, Hyattsville, Mil. 1376. 

Material for assay. Sent by E. H. Stewart, Little Rock Creek, North Carolina. 
1383. 

Material for determination. Sent by Geo. H. Babcock, Phillipsburg, Mont. 1386. 

Supposed aluminum ore. Sent by W. A. C. Bryan, Nephi City, Utah. 1389. 

Pyrite. Sent by Levi Frye, Rinkerton, Va. 1390. 

Volcanic glass. Sent by A. F. Canter, Jordan Valley, Oregon. 1391. 

Material for determination. Sent by R. F. Eller, Kenterville, Idaho. 1101. 

Ore. Sent by W. G. Mercier, Washington. 1403. 

Rocks for examination. Sent by Prof. W. O. Crosby, Boston, Mass. 1408. 

Material for assay. Sent by M. J. Bailey, Chester, N. Dak. Mil). 

Rock. Sent by J. H. Chase, Wenatchee, Wash. 1419. 

Materials for determination. Sent by Frank Burk, Nephi City, Utah. 1422. 

Materials for determination. Sent by B. S. Belcher, Ada, W. Va. 1423. 

Limonite and slag. Sent by F. H. Moyers, Clapp's Ford, Tenn. 1426. 

Pyrrhotite. Sent by John Long, Sand Point Station, Idaho. 1432. 

Material for identification. Sent by Ed. Hassatt, Atoka, Choctaw Nation, Ind. T. 
1433. 

Material for determination. Sent by N. D. Holmes, Toledo, Ark. 1435. 

Supposed tin ore. Sent by W. E. Stevens, Wenatchee, Wash. 1436. 

Material for determination. Sent by J. E. Luce, Cisco, Tex. 1452. 

Material for determination. Sent by J. B. Rosenborough, Aransas Pass, Tex. 1453. 

Material for assay. Returned to sender. 1456. 

Limonite. Sent by Stanley M. Crites, Pipestone, Mich. 1458. 

Copper ore for determination. Sent by Alex. Clark, Port Angeles, Wash. 1461. 

Supposed silver ore. Sent by Mrs. A. M. Finney, St. James Hotel, Washington, 
D. C. 1462. 

Material for determination. Sent by J. O. Flack, Atoka, Ind. T. 1463. 

Material for determination. Sent by Miss Sarah Hollings worth, Dogwood P. O., 
Douglas County, Mo. 1472. 

Material for assay. Sent by J. W. Wentworth, Payson, Ariz. 1475. 

Micaceous hematite. Sent by J. W. Craig, Muchet, Augusta County, Va. 1476. 

Quartz and feldspar. Sent by A. W. Shaffer, Raleigh, N. C. 1479. 

Material for determination. Sent by E. A. Hanske, Bellevue, Iowa. 1498. 

Material for assay. Sent by W. E. Stevens, Wenatchee, Wash. 1509. 

Pyrite and pyrrhotite. Sent by H. C. Wallace, Alta City, Utah. 1510. 

Galena. Sent by A. Block, Bowling Green, Ky. 1516. 

Quartz. Sent by George W. Malone, Hornbeak, Tenn. 1532. 

Clay. Sent by E. E. Vail, St. Augustine, Fla. 1533. 

Supposed lead ore. Sent by J. V. Surprenant, Anaconda, Mont. 1537. 

Clay. Sent by B. Stinson, Paoli, Ind. 1540. 

Siliceous sand. Sent by W. P. Hobson, Pueblo, Colo. 1541. 

Pyrite. Sent by John G. Steele, Rock Hill, S. C. 1538. 

Material for assay. Sent by A. C. Trump, Lake Valley, N. Mex. 1551. 

Material for assay. Sent by D. S. Heron, Globe, Ariz. 1553. 

Pyrite. Sent by Milo Winters, Crown Point Center, N. Y. 1556. 

Material for determination. Sent by A. Devereaux, Decatur, Tex. 1559. 

Material for assay. Sent by Chaides Faulk, East Liverpool, Ohio. 1560. 

Material for assay. Sent by S. O. Remington, Phillipsburg, Mont. 1563. 

Material for determination. Sent by Richard Bennett, Eureka Springs, Ark. 
1564. 

Material for assay. Sent by A. H. Bracken, Hensley, Yancey County, N. C. 1565. 

Material for determination. Sent by Geo. H. Vickers, Lame Deer, Custer County, 
Mont, 1568. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 215 

Quartz porphyry. Sent by Dr. Scott Hill, Augusta, Me. 1569. 

Minerals for determination. Sent by Sarah Hollingsworth, Dogwood P. <>., Mo. 
1570. 

Biotite granite. Sent by A. P. Eells, Boston, Mass. 1571. 

Material for determination. SentbyChas. A. Raber, South Riverside, Cal. 1573. 

Material for determination. Sent by P. P. Player, Bledsoe, Ala. 1574. 

Pyrite. Sent by S. Heymann, Fayetteville, Tenn. 1576. 

Material for determination. Sent by C. VY. McAlarney, Plymouth, Pa. 1578. 

Pyrrhotite. Sent by Leonard D. Siver, Spokane, Wash. 1579. 

Bituminous limestone. Sent by Benson Lewis, Thurber, Piute County, Utah. 
1580. 

Magnetite, supposed tin ore. Sent by S. I. Gaskill, Salesville, Gallatin County, 
Mont. 1586. 

Phosphatic limestone. Sent by C. G. Faucher, Flagstaff, Ariz. 1592. 

Material for assay. Sent by J. Stouffer, Wooddale, Pa. 1593. 

Supposed ore for determination. Sent by J. S. Lee, Roswell, N. Mex. 1595. 

Micaceous schist carrying graphite. Sent by J.A.Navarre, Chelan, Wash. 1596. 

Material for assay. Sent by Wm. McVay, Prineville, Oregon. 1598. 

Material for identification. Sent by J. Stouffer, Wooddale, Pa. 1599. 

Material for determination. Sent by Hunt Bros., Sturgis, Miss. 1601. 

Supposed ore, for determination. Sent by Geo. Kenney, Elf, Clay County, N. C. 
1604. 

Clay, for analysis. Seut by R. F. Thorne, Iuka, Tishomingo County, Miss. 1606. 

Sand for determination. Sent by Robert Goudie, Nashville, S. Dak. 1609. 

Minerals for determination. Sent by R. T. Ford, Naillon, Tenn. 1612. 

Minerals for analysis. Sent by Geo. Bonnell, Tooele City, Utah. 1615. 

Ore for determination. Sent by W. L. Detrick, Julian, San Diego County, Cal. 
1616. 

Clay for analysis. Seut by A. D. Merick, The Portland, Washington, D. C. 1618. 

Supposed ore. Sent by C. H. Campfield, Dulzura, San Diego County, Cal. 1620. 

Material for determination. Sent by B. S. Belcher, Ada, Mercer County, W. Va. 
1622. 

Material for determination. Sent by C.H. Campfield, Dulzura, San Diego County, 
Cal. 1625. 

Material for assay. Sent by George H. Buchanan, Tannersville, N. V. 1631. 

Material for assay. Sent by H. E. Stufflebeam, Delaney, Ark. 1636. 

Clay, supposed aluminum ore. Sent by R. E. Cook, Nottingham, Ala. 1637. 

Pitchstone. Sent by Paul Murn, Boulder, Mont. 1638. 

Metal for determination. Sent by J. Stouffer, Wooddale, Fayette County, Pa. 
1639. 

Material for assay. Sent by J. Ebaugh, Carrollton, Carroll County, Md. 1640. 

Alloy for determination. Sent by J. R. Hunt, jr., Sturgis, Miss. 1641. 

Supposed gold ore. Sent by Gen. P. N. Hagner, Washington, D. C. 1642. 

Stalagmitic limestone. Sent by C. E. Van Deren, Cottonwood, Ariz. 1645. 

Material for assay. Sent by G. W. Chambers, Egger, Ark. 1647. 

Volcanic dust. Sent by Levi Allen, Salubria, Idaho. 1648. 

Eruptive rock. Sent by Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kans. 1649. 

Material for assay. Sent by H. A. James, Oklahoma. 1652. 

Clay. Sent by T. S. Harris, New York, N. Y. 1655. 

I (('composed asbestos. Sent by L. F. Cooper, Crescent City, Cal. 1657. 

Material for assay. Sent by L. A. Rawlins, Box Elder, Colo. 1661. 

Material for assay. Sent by II. W. Flagg, Martinsburg, W. Va. 1662. 

Quartz stained by oxide of iron. Sent by J. Ebaugh, Hamilton, Carroll County, 
Md. 1666. 



216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Supposed silver ore. Sent by Henry Clouse, Phebe, Tenn. 1668. 

Rock for analysis. Sent by Theo. S. Harris, New York, N. Y. 1669. 

Phospbatic rock. Sent by L. Haskell, Fort Meade, Fla. 1671. 

Material for assay. Sent by H. W. Miles. Salt Lake City, Utah. 1673. 

Material for determination. Sent by E. Spencer, Big Pine, Inyo County, Cal. 
1677. 

Eruptive Rock for determination. Sent by Robert Forrester, Scofield, Utah. 
1678. 

Material for analysis. Sent by S. Hummel, Gloversville, N. Y. 1679. 

Supposed tin ore. Sent by Einil Wilvert, Sunbury, Pa. 1680. 

Iron ore. Sent by W. W. Wotherspoon, Mount Vernon Barracks, Mount Vernon, 
Ala. 1681. 

Material for analysis. Sent by P. F. Sbumaker, Flat Creek, Winn Parish, La. 
1683. 

Building stone. Sent by Porter and Butler, Baker City, Oregon. 1684. 

Material for examination. Sent by R. C. Stout, Caddo, Stephens County, Tex. 1686. 

Supposed tin ore. Sent by Levi Allen, Salnbria, Idaho. 1689. 

Supposed onyx. Sent by S. Fletcher, Phebe, Tenn. 1691. 

Material for examination. Sent by E. C. Kitchen, Brownwood, Tex. 1696. 

Gypsum. Sent by Mrs. E. L. Smith, La Plata, N. Mex. 1699. 

Ferruginous concretion. Sent by Geo. U. S. Hovey, White Church, Wyandotte 
County, Kans. 1790. 

Volcanic dust. Sent by Sam'l Price and Thos. Finuegan, Dunlap, Graham County, 
Ariz. 1701'. 

Clay lor analysis. Sent by H. Hopkins, La Fayette, Oregon. 1710. 

Clay. Sent by Otto A. Benkendorf, Wilmot, Cowley County, Kans. 1711. 

Conglomerate. Sent by Stewart Simpson, Ruthburg, Washington County, Idaho. 
1715. 

Pyrite. Sent by C. J. Hyatt, Iuka, Miss. 1728. 

Supposed ore. Sent by J. S. Miller, Chewlah, Stevens County, Wash. 1722. 

Minerals for determination. Sent by J. H. Pisor, Horr, Mont. 1726. 

A supposed gold ore. Sent by Cassady Linthicum, Hyattstown, Montgomery 
County, Md. 1731. 

Supposed ozocerite. Sent by Geo. S. Luce, Galesville, Wis. 1739. 

Material for analysis. Sent by A. H. Bracken, Hensley, Yancey County, N. C. 1742. 

Galena. Sent by H. W. Diggins, Springfield, Mo. 1747. 

Material for assay. Sent by H. J. Hasbrouck, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 1752. 

Sand and ore for examination. Sent by O. B. Bloom, Harrisburg, Ariz. 1756. 

Material for analysis. Sent by E. B. Hassett, St. Paul, Madison Couuty, Ark. 1758. 

Minerals for determination. Sent by A. E. Lee, Alpowa, Garfield County, Wash. 
1765. 

Red Hematite. Sent by W. J. Stump, Hartmonsville, Mineral County, W. Va. 1767. 

Material for assay. Sent by W. S. Rynearson, Indian Valley, Idaho, 1777. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES. 

Little time has been at our command for special research. The De- 
partment has no chemist, and the entire determinative work falls upon 
the curator, who even makes a large proportion of his own analyses. 

The titles of such papers as have appeared during the year are given 
in the Bibliography (sec. iv). 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Merri 



Plate III. 



I- 
£ 
D 
O 
U 

co 

u 

I 

(- 
D 

o 

CD 



r. 



ojij; 



s 



m 











LH l!l3 



I X 






o 





E 



© © 



WEST-SOUTH RANGE 











Li 



Mammal Mall 



,.73 l i 



-J r— Uj— I 1-'-| 



Diagram showing Arrangement of Cases in Department of Geology, 
June 30, 1892. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. 

Diagram showing Arrangement of Cases in Department of Geology, June 30, 1892. 

"West-south range. — No.l, wall-case containing collection of elements of rock-forming minerals, color, 
structure, and fracture series; Nos, 2 to 10, inclusive, table-cases with slope-top cases contain- 
ing systematic Beriesof rocks; No. 11, table-case with slope- top case containing volcanic mate- 
rials; No. 12. floor-upright case with calcareous and siliceous deposits, from hot springs, gey- 
sers, and extinct lakes; No. 13, hall' unit table-case with model of Vesuvius; No. 14, table-case 
with slope-to]) case containing lavas from Ice Spring Buttes, Utah ; No. 15, table-case with 
special top containing collections illustrating stratification and its accompaniments; No. 16, 
door-screen case with type collections of rocks of Comstock, Lode and Washoe district, Neva da ; 
No. 17, door-screen case with collections illustrating the geology and mineralogy of the District 
of Columbia; No. 18, special base with large concretions from Cannon Ball River, Dakota; 
No. 19, table-case with large masses of obsidian; No. 20, half unit table-case with blocks of 
glacial polished and striated limestone; No. 21, wall-case containing series illustrating joints, 
faults, veins, ami pressure effects; No. 22, wall-case containing concretions; No. 23, wall-case 
containing collections illustrating (a) formation of pebbles by wave action on a beach, (b) the 
drifting power of water, (e) effects of lightning (fulgurites), (d) rock decomposition and the 
formation of soils, (c) contact metamorphism ; Nos. 24, 23, and 26, door-screen cases with build- 
ing and ornamental stones ; No. 27, special case with large geyser cone; No. 28, floor-upright 
case with stalactite and stalagmites; Nos. 29 and 30, table-case with relief maps; Nos. 31. 32, and 
33, door-screen cases with building and ornamental stones; Nos. 34 and 35, table-cases with 
building and ornamental stones showing style of dressing; Nos.36,37, and 38, door-screen 
cases with building and ornamental stones; Nos. 39, 40,41, and 42, table-cases with ripple marks, 
mud cracks, foot-prints, etc.; Nos. 4:1 to 48, inclusive, door-screen cases with building and 
ornamental stones; No. 49, large block of glaciated limestone: No. 50, table-case with slope-top 
case containing glacial exhibits; No. 51, relief map of Grand Canon District ; No. 52. table-case 
with wing-frames for pictures; Nos. 53 and 54, relief-maps of the Uinta and Wasatch moun- 
tains. Yellowstone. Park, high plateaus of Utah, and Mount Taylor, New Mexico; Nos.55 
and 56, pier-cases with foreign building and ornamental stones; No. 57, pier-cases with col- 
lections showing reproductive and constructive effects of plant and animal life, the geology 
of Bermuda; No. 58, pier-cases witli collection illustrating the origin of serpen tinous rocks,- 
No. 59. wall-case with rocks of New Hampshire: No. 60, wall-case with historical series includ- 
ing type series of rocks of Canada: Nos. 61 and 62, columns of grindstones ; No. 63, table with 
books for reference. 

South-west court.— Wall-cases : Nos. 1 to 54. inclusive, geographic series of ores and useful mineral 
substances. 

Floor-cases and tables: No. 1, table with books for reference; Nos. 2 to 4, gold ores of 
systematic series; Nos. 5and6, silver ores ; Nos. 7 and 8, silver lead ores ; Nos. 9 and 10, lead ores; 
Nos. 11 to 16, copper ores; Nos. 17 to 20, Tenth Census collection of iron ores; Nos. 21 to 23, 
iron ores; No. 24, manganese ores; Nos. 25 to 27, zinc ores; No. 28, antimony ores; Nos. 29 
and 30. tin ores; Nos. 31 and 32, nickel and cobalt ores; Nos. 33 and 34, mercury ores; No.:;;,, 
aluminum ores; No. 36, miscellaneous; Nos. 37 and 38, silver and its extraction; No. 39, lead 
and its extraction; Nos. 40 to 42, copper and its extraction; Nos. 43 and 44, the manufacture 
of steel; No. 45. iron and its extraction ; Nos. 46 and 47, zinc and its extraction; No. 48, mineral 
pigments, detergents, and lubricators: Nos. 49 and 50, alloys and their manufacture ; No. 51, 
coke and its manufacture; fluxes; Nos.52to 56, economic collections from Mexico; No. 57,' 

economic collections from Central America: No. 58, economic collections from South A ricai 

Nos. 59 and 60. economic collections from British America; Nos. 61 to 64, coals; Nos. 65 to 67,' 
hydrocarbon compounds; Nos. 70 to 72. economic collections from Austria; No. 73. economic 
collections from New Zealand ; Nos. 74 to 76, economic collections from Sweden; No. 77, 
economic collections from Norway: Nos. 78 and 79. graphite and its applications; Nos. 80 and 
81, fictile materials; Nos. 82 to 85, asbestos and its applications; Nos. 86 and 87, not perma- 
nently occupied: Nos. 88 and 89, economic collections from Russia; Nos.90to 93, polishing and 
abrading materials: Nos. 94 to loo. salts used in chemical manufacture: No. 101, economic 
collections from Japan; Nos. 102 and 103, economic collections from Germany; Nos. 104 and 
105, economic collections from Austria; Nos. 106 and 107, economic collections from Portugal; 
Nos. 108 and 109. economic collections from Spain; No. 110. large mass of anthracite coal; No! 
Ill, economic collection of kerosene and shale from Australia ; Nos. 112 and 113. Vermont 
marbles: No. 114, model of the Eureka District. Nevada: No. 115, pedestal; No. 116, table- 
case and wing-frames with photographs. 



DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY. 217 

PRESENT STATE OF COLLECTION. 

The present state of the collections may be best comprehended by 
reference to the accompanying plan of the exhibition halls (Plate in) 
and the figures given below : 

A . — Systematic geology. 

(1) Exhibition series 6,250 

(2) Study series 12, 000 

B. — Economic geology. 

(1) Exhibition series 13, 537 

(2) Study series 4, 000 

Total , 35, 787 

First catalogue entry July, 1891 67, 005 

Last catalogue entry June, 1892 68, 01 It 

It will be observed that the figures for the study series are the same 
as in my last report. This does not mean that there have in reality 
been no additions to this series, but rather that these additions, of 
which there are several very important, are not as yet properly installed. 
As heretofore, no attempt is made at estimating the number of speci- 
mens in the storage sheds, or of duplicate materials. 

The need of additional exhibition space is even greater than at the 
time of my last report, and it is hoped that before the close of another 
year steps may be taken towards the erection of a balcony around the 
south-west court which will afford space for the building- stone collec- 
tion. The necessity for this change was sufficiently dwelt upon in my 
last report. 

The regular working force of the department for the year, aside from 
the curator, has been as follows: Mr. W. H. Newhall, aid; Miss C. 
Hurlburt, copyist; and Mr. J. O. Neale, preparator. Thomas Eeese, 
laborer, has also served for a large portion of the year. Prof. R. L. 
Packard, who has availed himself of the opportunities offered for study 
during a considerable portion of the year, has rendered the department 
on sundry occasions, great service in determinative and analytical work. 



SECTION III. 



PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Page. 

1. Japanese Wood-cutting and Wood-cut Printing Communicated by Mr. T. 

Tokuno, and edited by S. R. Koehler 221 

2. The Relation of Biology to Geological Investigation. By Dr. Charles A. 

White 245 

3. Scientific Taxidermy for Museums. Based on a Study of the United States 

Government Collection. By Dr. R. W. Shufeldt 309 

4. The Shofar — Its Use and Origin. By Dr. Cyrus Adler 437 

5. The Crump Burial Cave. By Frank Burns 451 

6. Minute Stone Implements from India. By Thomas Wilson * 455 

7. Comparative Oology of North American Birds. By Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. . . 461 



219 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 



Communicated by T, Toku.no, 

Chief of Insetsu-Kioku (Bureau of Engraving and Printing) of the Ministry of Finance, 

Tokio, Japan. 

Edited and annotated by S. R. Koehler, 

Curator of the Section of Graphic Arts, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C. 



Through the kindness of Mr. T. Tokuuo, Chief of the Bureau of 
Engraving and Printing of the Ministry of Finance, Tokio, Japan, the 
U. S. National Museum has received as a gift from the Imperial Gov- 
ernment of Japan the complete outfit of a Japanese wood-cutting 
and wood-cut printing establishment, accompanied by illustrated de- 
scriptions of all the tools and materials sent and of the processes 
used by Japanese engravers and printers. The original statements 
made by Mr. Tokuno were supplemented by answers to questions ad- 
dressed to him by me, and the patience and courtesy shown by this 
well-informed official can not be too highly appreciated and too warmly 
acknowledged. The publication of the information thus elicited will 
be welcomed by those Avho are interested in the art of the wood-cutter 
and in the arts of Japan, more especially as Mr. Tokuno's communica- 
tion is, so far as I know, the first authoritative statement on this sub- 
ject made by a native of Japan thoroughly qualified for the task. As 
the information which follows is scattered through a number of letters 
and memoranda, it will not be possible to give it absolutely in the 
shape in which it was received, but care will be taken to adhere as 
closely as possible to Mr. Tokuno's own statements. Occasional ob- 
scurities which still remain must be charged to the necessity of corre- 
sponding m English and to the great distance between the correspond- 
ents. The illustrations which accompany this paper, so far as they 
relate to Japanese wood-cutting and printing, were all made either 
from the objects themselves or from drawings by Japanese artists fur- 
nished by Mr. Tokuno. Such remarks as suggest themselves upon a 
comparison of our own methods, past and present, with those of Japan 
will be given as an appendix to Mr. Tokuno's communication. 

The tools and specimens alluded to in the following pages have been 
placed on exhibition in the Hall of Graphic Arts, eastern side, alcove 
2, in the square case on the floor of the alcove, and in frames 28 to 34. 

22L 



222 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

MR. T. TOKTJNO'S COMMUNICATION. 

The woods used and their preparation. Although "tsuge," a 
variety of Buxus Japonica, or "adsusa." Catalpa Kcempferi var. Ja- 
ponica, are employed, according - to the degree of fineness of the written 
characters or pictures to he reproduced, the wood most generally used 
is "sakura," a variety of cherry. In all cases, however, the texture 
must be very fine and hard. 

The wood is first cut into planks, and these are planed until they 
are perfectly level and smooth, free from all traces of the plane, and 
show some luster on the surface. Both sides are finished alike, as the 
woodcutter utilizes both of them. 

Cut planks which are to be printed in black only are usually mounted 
between strips nailed to each end. There are several reasons for this. 
It prevents the warping of the planks; it gives free access to the air 
between them, when a number are stored on top of one another, and 
provides the best means of keeping them dry and guarding against 
damage by insects; it prevents immediate contact of the blocks, and, 
finally, it is sometimes very convenient, as it facilitates the drawing- 
out of such planks as may be needed from among many stored away 
together, the planks being marked or numbered on the sides of the 
strips. For color-printing, however, the same plank often has two or 
three designs upon it for different tints, and consequently has register- 
ing marks on different parts. In that case the end strips would be in 
the way, and are, therefore, omitted. 

The tools of the engraver. For engraving, knives and chisels 
of the best quality are required. All the tools needed by the engraver 
are represented on Plates IV (1-18) and V (19-25), and with the following 
explanations their uses will be readily understood: 

/. Ruler for cutting straight lines and for fixing the registering 
marks on the planks used in color-printing. 

2. Brush for removing from the plank the chips thrown out by the 
cutting tools. 

3. Engraving knife, for cutting out the design. Only one knife, 
always of the same pattern and size, is used by the Japanese wood- 
cutters, and with this one knife they perforin all grades of work, from 
the coarsest to the finest, the execution depending entirely <>n the skill 
of the engraver. [See Fig. 1 for a Japanese wood-cutter's knife, actual 
size, seen from both sides.] 

4-9. Chisels for removing smaller portions of wood between the lines 
of the design. They are used exactly like the engraving knife. 

10, 11. Ch isels for correcting unsatisfactory parts [i. e., removing parts 
for "plugging"]. 

12. Saw for cutting small pieces of wood to be inserted in the plank 
where corrections have to be made. 

13-16. Chisels for removing larger portions of wood. 

17, 18. Semicircular chisels, used for the same purpose as L3-1G. 



Report of National Museurr., 1892.— Koehler 



Plate IV. 



■'■'< •/ 



I I 






~ 



7u. /r 



flo 



' 



>mmiif Mtu.ii< 



?14- t. 



A 



•■:•- . / 



- 'J 



tic. ,'3 



OK). I 



Tools used by Japanese Wood-cutters. 
(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Koehler. 



Plate V. 



OIO. 2 3 



1 



rrOZfl 



nt-Zf 




>i: 




?**.. %L 




91 



Tools used by Japanese Wood-cutters. 

(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist.) 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 



223 



19. A special Mnd of grinding stone, for leveling the surface of I he 
grinding stone, No. 20. 

20. Grinding stone for taking off the somewhat roughened edges of the 
knives and chisels, alter they have been sharpened on the stone, No. 21. 

21. Grinding stone. [See No. 



20.]* 

22. Oil pot, in which oil of 
Sesamum orientate is kept, for 
rubbing the portions of the 
plank to be cut, so as to 
soften the wood and make the 
cutting easier and cleaner. 

23. Oil brush for the oil just 
spoken of. 

24,25. Wooden mallets for 
driving the chisels, Nos. L3-18. 

The originals furnished 
to the wood-cutters, and 
the method of transfer- 
ring them to the flanks. 
Written characters or pict- 
ures to be cut on wood are 
drawn upon a certain kind of 
Japanese paper, "minogami" 
or " gampishi," and the draw- 
ings thus made are pasted 
[face downward] upon a pre- 
pared plank, by means of 
starch paste. The plank is 
now ready for the engraver. 
This applies to prints in black 
only. For color-printing, the 
outlines of the design are first 
cut and printed in black ink 
(Indian ink mixed with a 
solution of glue) upon "mino- 
gami," and the designer of 
the picture then marks the 
parts to be colored [on differ- 
ent sheets]. These sheets are 
then pasted down on the 
p 1 ks, as before stated, and <Fr 

the engraving also proceeds as before. 



Fig. 1. 
Japanese Woodcutter s knike. 

Actual size. Two view 8. 
om the specimen in the U. S. National Musuein.) 



* Mr. Geo. P. Merrill, curator of the Department of Geology, to w horn these stones 
were submitted, has kindly Supplied the following information concerning them: 
None of them correspond exactly to the stones used for similar purposes with ns. 
No. 19 is a dark blue-gray, fine-grained argillaceous rock, impregnated with lime, 



224 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Aim of Japanese woodcutting. The important point to be kept 
in view in characteristic Japanese woodcutting is to show the direction 
of the brush in painting, so as not to destroy the features of an original 
picture or of written characters. The direction in which the knife is 
moved might be said to be almost identical with the direction of the 
brush, and wood-cuts by skillful hands therefore show the exact fea- 
tures of the originals, while, at the same time, they have a special ar- 
tistic character of their own. 

Manner of handling the engraving tools. The tools, having 
been put into good order and well sharpened, are laid on one side of 
the engraving table, and upon the latter is placed the plank to be cut. 
The wood-cutter, holding his knife in his right hand and pushing the 
back of it with the middle finger of the left hand, first cuts around all 
the lines of the design, and then removes the wood between them by 
means of the chisels, so as to leave the lines in relief. He then, with a 
small brush, cleans and washes the plank, and has a proof taken, after 
which he makes corrections, if necessary. 

Plate vi shows a wood-cutter at work. A is the plank ; B, a grinding 
stone for sharpening the knives and chisels; is a box containing 
engraver's tools. 

Difference between old and modern Japanese methods of 
wood-cutting. Although the method of cutting on wood differs 
slightly at present from the ancient method, the principal points are, 
nevertheless, the same. 

All ancient wood -cuts are comparatively deeper than those of the 
j ncsent day. The shallowness of modern cutting is due, probably, to 
the ability to do much finer work. 

In the ancient style the outer boundaries of letters or pictures were 
cut away deeply before they were properly engraved. At present the 
stages are reversed. The latter method takes less labor and time, and 
it is probably one of the causes of the shallow cutting at present in 
vogue. 

Formerly the }>aper bearing the original design, after it had been 
pasted down on the plank, was oiled, so as to make it transparent, 
and to enable the wood-cutter to see the design quite distinctly. This 
is not necessary now, as it is easy to get paper sufficiently thin and 
transparent in itself. 

Semicircular chisels are now in use for removing some of the parts 
between the lines of the design. There were no such chisels formerly, 



somewhat resembling our ordinary roofing slate, but softer and less finely fis- 
siled. 

No. 20 is a soft, buff -colored argillaceous rock, more like the German razor bone 
than anything we use. 

No. 21 is a whitish, somewhat decomposed siliceous rock, rather coarse for a whet- 
stone, giving, when breathed upon, a distinct clayey odor, indicating the presence of 
free argillaceous matter. 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Koehler. 



Plate VI. 




Japanese Wood-cutter at Work. 

(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist.) 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 225 

and hence much more time and labor was spent on this part of the 
work than at present. 

Papers used for printing, and their treatment. The papers 
used, whatever their quality, should be sized with a thin animal size. 
Among the prints sent to the U. S. National Museum are impressions 
on three different kinds of paper: — a special Japanese paper, made at 
the Insetsu-Kioku paper mills [known in America as Imperial Japanese 
paper], a Chinese paper, and "masa" paper. 

The sheets are moistened with water before the printing begins, the 
degree of moisture differing according to the quality of the paper, 
the proper degree being determined by the judgment of the printer. 
"Masa" paper, for instance, on which the progressive proofs of one of 
the pictures ("Yinaka geuji") sent to the U. S. National Museum are 
printed, should be very slightly moistened by means of a brush. Ex- 
periment has shown the amount of moisture in this case to be 13.86 
per cent. A single wet sheet is put between every three or four dry 
sheets, until a suitable layer is formed, which is pressed between two 
wooden press boards. When all the sheets have the proper degree of 
moisture they are ready for printing. 

As the printing on this moist paper is done with water colors, it can 
be well done only by an experienced printer. The following points are 
to be noted : A. The paper should rather be under than overmoistened. 
If it is overmoistened the water colors will spread beyond their limits.* 
If the paper dries during the progress of the work, wet sheets are 
put between the sheets to be printed, and the heap is allowed to lie 
until the proper degree of moisture has been obtained. If the paper is 
thick and strong it should be slightly moistened from the back by 
means of a brush. B. Great care must be taken not to put an exces- 
sive quantity of color on the plank. Rice paste serves well to prevent 
the water colors from spreading, and it ought to be used for every im- 
pression. 

The printed sheets, in the interval between two printings, are laid on 
top of one another, to the number of many hundred sheets. If the 
w r ater colors have been properly applied there is no fear of offsetting 
on the backs of the sheets. 

A backing sheet is not generally used, but if it is desired to avoid 
all traces of the " baren " on the back of the printed sheets, a sheet of 
thin paper is used for backing. 

Printing on silk. — Silk is occasionally used for printing instead 
of paper, and one of the specimens sent to the U. S. National Museum 
is on this material It is usually found necessary to mount the silk on 
paper, but some experts can print without this device. The silk on 
which one of the impressions of " jSTandina domestica" is printed [in 
33 colors] was mounted on paper, but only along the edge which was 
laid against the registering marks. When the printing was finished 
this edge was trimmed off. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. L» 15 



226 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Pigments and vehicles fsed for. printing. — Five colors or 
pigments only [black, white, red, yellow, blue] are generally used for 
the most characteristic Japanese printing, such as the picture called 
"Yinaka genji,"* sent to the U. S. National Museum. They are all 
mixed with the necessary quantity of water, when about to be used, 
and the various hues, shades, and tints required are obtained by mixing 
the proper pigments together. These pigments, of which samples were 
sent to the IT. S. National Museum, are the following: 

a. Black, " tsuke-zumi," is generally prepared by macerating Japan- 
ese ink (a kind of India ink) in water for a few days, until the glue con- 
tained in it is dissolved, and the ink is sufficiently softened. It is then 
ground by means of pestle and mortar. As, however, the "tsuke- 
zumi" so made is very liable to deterioration, a sample of a lampblack 
obtained from a Japanese ink macerated in water so as to remove the 
glue, was sent to the U. S. National Museum. Consequently when this 
lampblack is to be used, and after it has been mixed with water, glue 
solution, or rice paste (according to the judgment of the printer) will 
have to be added. If glue solution is used it should be mixed with 
the lampblack in a basin, but if rice paste is used, that is mixed with 
the pigment on the plank itself by means of the brush. 

b. White, "to-no-tsuchi," is white lead. It is used either alone, for 
prints of flowers, birds, etc., or mixed with other colors, if light tints 
or body colors arc wanted. 

* "Yinaka genji" is a design in black outlines with color washes. It is printed 
on three sheets, intended to he pasted together, each sheet measuring about 9| 
inches in breadth by 14 inches in height, printed surface, or the three sheets, when 
pasted together, about 29 inches in breadth by 14 inches in height. It represents a 
hilly landscape, in the middle ground of which agricultural operations are being 
carried on. Six larger figures occupy the foreground, as follows : On the first sheet 
are represented two richly dressed ladies, the one to the left kneeling, turned to- 
wards the right, and holding a parcel in her left hand. The one to the right stands, 
with the body turned towards the right, but looking down upon the kneeling figure 
on the left, and holding in her left hand a vessel suspended by a string. In the 
second or middle sheet there is another richly dressed lady, kneeling, with her 
body nearly fronting the spectator, while her face, shaded by the left hand, is turned 
up towards the group in the third sheet. In her right hand she holds a fan. On 
the third sheet there is a group of three figures. A man, likewise richly dressed, 
wearing a sword in his belt, and holding a pipe in his left hand, stands, turned 
somewhat towards the left, but looking back upon a. lady who kueels to the right 
of him and makes an appealing gesture with her left hand. To the right of the 
kneeling lady, somewhat back of and bending down towards her, is a second lady, 
standing, who makes a gesture of astonishment with her left hand. Both are richly 
dressed. The coloring is brilliant, mostly in flat masses, with little modeling or 
gradation, except in the sky. The first sheet has 25 printings, the second 26, the 
third 23, including a "blind" impression, which produces an embossed pattern in 
the garment of one of the figures. 

"Yinaka genji" is the title of a Japanese novel, of which this picture is an illus- 
tration. 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 227 

c. Red, "yo-ko," a kind of scarlet (imported), probably carmine. 
Formerly the best kind of safflower, called "ki-jo-mi," was used, but 
on account of its present high price the use of "yo-ko" has become 
quite popular. 

d. Blue, "bero-ai," is Prussian blue. Formerly "ai-ro" paste, ob- 
tained by extraction from blue threads or rags dyed with indigo, or 
from "ai-gami," a paper saturated with indigo, was used. But since 
the introduction of Prussian blue from Europe its use has become quite 
general. 

e. Yellow, "ki-wo, r is orpiment. Formerly "zumi," extracted from a 
particular yellow wood; turmeric, "wukon-ko;" and a yellow ocher, 
"wo-do," were used, but orpiment has now taken their place. 

For mixing these colors water only is used, but never any sizing, 
such as glue, except with lampblack, as before stated. A small quan- 
tity of rice paste is, however, mixed with the colors on the block or 
plank when color prints are to be made. 

By mixing these pigments the various hues desired can be obtained, 
but the results will be as bright as those shown in " Yinaka genji" only 
in the hands of a skilled workman. There is, however, no particular 
method of producing these colors; the result depends entirely on the 
practical experience of the printer, who can judge the exact proportions 
of the pigments to be mixed, without using either balances or measur- 
ing glass, and who does the mixing either in his color dishes or upon 
the blocks themselves. Bice paste gives a peculiar luster to the colors, 
and much of their beauty depends upon the time and care devoted to 
grinding them with water. It is a fact well known to Japanese printers 
that skilled hands produce much finer colors with the same pigments 
than unskilled hands. 

There is a brilliant purple [violet] in "Yinaka genji" which has been 
taken for an aniline color, although no aniline color has been used in 
the printing of this picture. The color in question was obtained by 
boiling a certain quantity of red (scarlet) and blue (Prussian blue), such 
as those just described, with water, and with proper treatment a bright 
purple [violet] can be obtained, almost the same as an aniline purple. 
This latter purple, however, has now come more generally into use, 
owing to the ease with which it can be managed. A brown color, 
formerly made by mixing red, yellow, and black, has now also been 
replaced by "bengara," which is a kind of red ocher. 

The pigments used for printing "Namibia domestica"* arc quite 
different from those so far spoken of, but the method of using them is 
the same. Following is a description of these pigments: 

a. Black, "sumi," the best kind of India ink made in China or Japan 

* This picture represents a stalk with leaves and a cluster of the fruit of "Nandina 
domestica/' a plant belonging to flic Barberry family, printed on a sheet measuring 
6 inches in breadth by 9| inches in height. It is without a background and with- 
out outlines, broadly and effectively modeled, but without any attempt at realistic 
rendering. 



228 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

(the particular place is Kara). It is prepared for use by rubbing it with 
water upon the surface of a stone vessel called " suzuri," familiar to 
eveiy Japanese. 

b. White, " gof un, " calcium carbonate [white chalk]. For use it is 
put in a color dish, and a few drops of glue solution are added. It is 
then rubbed with the finger in contact with the dish, uutil it becomes 
a wet mass and somewhat pasty. A little glue solution is again added, 
and the rubbing repeated, and so on several times. When the mass 
has become sufficiently pasty to be made into a pudding, it is beaten 
several times against a plank, and then reduced to a thin paste by di- 
luting with water. 

c. Pink, " sho-yen-ji." This is apparently cochineal, but its chemicai 
nature has not yet been ascertained. It is imported from China, in the 
form of cotton felt dyed red. To prepare it for use this felt is put into 
water and gently pressed. The resulting pink water is poured into a 
color dish, and evaporated nearly to dryness in a water bath, or over a 
very slow fire, care being taken not to let it dry completely, as other- 
wise its brilliancy would be destroyed. It is then kept in a cool place, 
and protected from dust by putting a cover on the dish or by placing it 
upside down in a box. 

d. Blue, " ai-bo," a dark blue, hard stick made of indigo. For use it 
is ground, like " suini," in a color dish, with a few drops of glue solu- 
tion. When a sufficiently deep blue color has been obtained, it is well 
rubbed with the finger in contact with the dish, and then evaporated 
to dryness over a slow fire. A few drops of water are now added, the 
dish is again placed over a slow fire, the rubbing with the finger gone 
through with as before, and water is added gradually, until the proper 
shade of color has been obtained. If these directions are not strictly 
followed, the pigment is not well diffused in the water, and the result- 
ing color, as a matter of course, is not satisfactory. The treatment of 
the pigments gofun, shoyen-ji, <u-bo, etc., requires great caution, and 
the Japanese printers and painters consider it one of the difficulties of 
their art. 

e. Yellow, " shi-o." This is gamboge, and is imported. For use it is, 
diffused in water, and no glue whatever is added. 

f. Brown, " tai-sha-bo," a hard, brown stick made of a red ocher. For 
use it is treated exactly like " ai-bo." 

g. Red, "shu," vermilion. For use it is well mixed with a few drops 
of glue solution, ground thoroughly with the finger, and then diluted 
with water to the proper consistency. 

The following pigments are also used in printing, and samples of them 
have been sent to the U. S-. National Museum : 

Bed, " ki-jo-mi," safflower. This color, in solution, is very apt to suf 
fer on exposure to sunlight, and the bottle in which it is sent is, there- 
fore, wrapped up in black paper. Alter it has dried on the paper, it is 
not so fugitive as to make it undesirable for printing. 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 229 

Red oeher, u ben-gara." 

Turmeric, "wakon-ko." 

Yellow oeher, "wo-do." 

Yellow, ci zumi," extract from a particular yellow wood. 

Blue, "ai-garai." Paper saturated with a solution of indigo. 

Blue, "ai-ro." Indigo paste. 

Of the vehicles used by the printer in the manipulation of his colors, 
the following- is to be said : 

Glue solution. The strength of this solution differs according to the 
different pigments, printing papers, silks, etc., to be used,' About one 
third of an ounce of glue to about three-fourths of a pint of water is, 
however, an approximate proportion. 

Rice paste. This is used for both of the classes of pigments described. 
It is made by boiling rice flour with a certain quantity of water, and is 
kept in a suitable vessel. Newly made paste is preferable; old and 
rotten paste should not be used. The pigment to be used is put on the 
block or plank, and some of the paste is then added, care being taken 
to mix the two well and evenly by means of a brush. If the printing 
brushes are not charged with this paste, the brilliancy of the colors is 
much lessened. 

The tools of the printer. The use of these tools will be 
understood from the examination of Plates VII (1-4), VIII (5-17), and 
ix, in connection with the following explanations: 

1. Box, for keeping all the tools and materials required for printing. 
The rack on top is used to hang the brushes on, andean be removed 
and packed in the box. The paper is kept on the shelf, so as to pre- 
vent its drying and being carried away by the draft. The colors are 
placed into the lower compartment. The box also serves to keep the 
dust and dirt from the paper and the colors. 

2. Hoards, for pressing wet paper. 

3. Small box, for keeping colors, color dishes, etc. This is stored in 
the box No. 1, when not in use. 

4. Printing table, which, when not in use, serves to close the front of 
box No. 1. 

5-7. Bruslies, for charging the cut planks with the printing colors, 
one particular brush being used for each color. When not in use, they 
are hung on the rack on top of box No. 1. 

8. Brush, for wetting paper. 

!K Oil of Sesamum orientale, contained in a bottle. (See No. 10.) 

10. Baren, a little shield which answers the purposes of the Euro 
pean press. After the sheet has been laid down on the plank charged 
with color, it is rubbed on the back with the "baren," so as to make it 
take the impression. The face of the " baren " in contact with the paper 
is occasionally rubbed with oil of Sesamum orientale. 

11-13. Chisels and a knife, used to correct the registering marks, if 
that should be necessary. 



230 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1*92. 

14. Agitator, for mixing colors in the basin, Xo. 17. 

15. Pads of cotton cloth, to be placed under the four corners of the 
planks, while printing-, to keep them from moving. 

16. The Jive dry colors described above as used in the printing of 
" Yinaka genji," put up in bottles. 

17. Basin, for mixing colors. 

The printer and printing. The method of taking-impressions is 
illustrated on Plate ix. The printer seats himself, and arranges all the 
tools and materials required, in good order, as shown. The plank to 
be printed is placed on the printer's table A, and the required color is 
laid on with the brush B. The paper being ready for printing, and 
having been placed upon the shelf C of the box D, a sheet of it is laid 
down upon the plank, and is rubbed lightly with the "baren" E. The 
printed sheet is then placed on a board which rests upon the box F, 
used for keeping colors, color dishes, etc., and when the required num. 
ber of sheets has been printed, they are put back on the shelf C. An- 
other plank is now taken, the second impression is made upon the 
sheets bearing the first, and this is followed by the third, fourth, etc., 
until the printing is completed. 

Charging the block with color. ["Inking" the block.] As before 
stated, the pigment to be used is put on the block or plank, and some 
rice paste is then sprinkled upon it. It is well, also, to soak the brush 
properly with this paste, so as to mix it thoroughly with the pigment. 
This increases the brilliancy of the colors, and also hxes them more 
completely. 

Dry impression. [Embossing.] There is a special kind of printing, 
called " dry impression." This is used when it is desired to represent 
designs of the same color as the ground, but differing in brilliancy. It 
is executed after the printing has been finished, and the paper has be- 
come quite dry. The sheet is then laid upon a plank specially cut for 
the purpose, but not charged with color, and is rubbed with the 
"baren."* 

The " baren " and the method of using it. The " baren" (see Plate x 
a-d) is a little hard shield, d, consisting of a stiff disk a, made of 
layers of paper pasted together, and turned up at the edge so as to 
form a very shallow receptacle, and covered with cotton cloth on the 
outside. A second disk b, formed of twisted cord, fits into this shallow 
receptacle, and is held in place by the bamboo sheath c, made of the 
ribbed leaf of the bamboo, which is drawn tightly over it and twisted 
together on the back, so as to form a handle. This latter is made more 
convenient for the hand to grasp it by a strip of paper wound around 
it and so arranged as to assume the shape of a rectangular pad.t The 

*Some specimens in the U. S. National Museum show, however, that this emboss- 
ing is occasionally done before the printing is finished. 

tThis description is based upon the object itself, rather than upon Mr. Tokuuo's 
notes. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Koehler 



Plate VII. 




Tools and Appliances used by Japanese Wood-cut Printers. 
(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Koehler. 



Plate VIII. 



>U> 



^M.r 




:f>. // 






'?:c, /u 



sm/3 o^-/^ 



1UQ fd 




<m H 



} 7 



;16. If 



c 



N. 



tfii 



•t 



i 






Tools and Appliances used by Japanese Wood-cut Printers. 
(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Koehler. 



Plate IX. 




A Japanese Wood-cut Printer at Work. 
(From a drawing in the U. S. National Museum by a Japanese artist. | 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Koehler. 



Plate X. 







Baren and its Parts. 

(Keduced in size. Actual size, 5£ inches diameter ) 

^ ^^n^ ' A- bamboo 

wound an »iind it. »ack, snowing the handle, with the strip of paper 

(From specimens in the U. S. National Museum.) 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 231 

reason why it is made so hard, besides making the filling of twisted 
cord, is to prevent its bending during use. Moreover, if it were not so 
hard and rigid, the full stretching of the bamboo sheath would be im- 
possible. The ribbed surface of the bamboo serves not only to get a 
sharper impression, by limiting the contact to the ribs, but it also pre- 
vents the adhesion of the wet paper to the " baren," which would occur, 
to the spoiling of the paper, if the covering were smooth. The con- 
tacting surface should be applied only to those parts of the plank which 
have been left standing in relief. If this precaution is neglected, there 
is the possibility of smearing from the depressed parts of the block. 
The direction in the movement of the " baren " should be zigzag, as 
shown on Plate xi, but if a very small and isolated part of the design is 
to be printed, it is better to give a lighter rub with the edge of the in- 
strument. On Plate xn the dotted line shows the direction of the 
"baren," while the solid curved lines mark the outlines of the design. 
The rib of the bamboo sheath should be kept as nearly as possible 
at a right angle to the direction, of the " baren." 

Smearing from the depression* of the block. As the depressions of the 
cut planks — that is to say, those parts which have been cut away be- 
tween the lines and masses of the design — are rather shallow, and at 
the same time in many cases quite extensive, it would seem almost im- 
possible to prevent the sinking of the sheet into the depressions and 
taking the color in these places, more especially when the method of 
applying the printing color with a brush is considered, which makes it 
impossible to keep the depressions clean. Experienced printers, never- 
theless, work without fear of smearing, and no special precautions are 
used to guard against it. 

Registering. As each color requires a separate cut, each plank must 
have certain fixed marks [registering marks], so that all the sheets may 
be laid down in exactly the same position, to insure the fitting of each 
color upon the others. No mechanical means whatever are used, either 
in placing the sheet, or for holding it in position after it has been placed. 
The Japanese printer, in these mattersas in all others, depends simply 
upon experience. The manner of placing the sheet on the block is 
shown on Plate xiii. The same figure shows also the registering marks 
on the block or plank, which consist of a rectangular notch | at 

the right, and a straight notch at the left. 

General remarks about printing. The printing may differ in quality, 
but the method employed is always about the same. The printing of 
a picture like u Xandina domestica" [which is an imitation of a water 
color painting without outlines] requires, of course, greater skill than 
the printing of u Yinaka genji" [which is a drawing in outlines, with 
colorwashes]. The aim in this case is to produce impressions which 
an inexperienced eye can hardly distinguish from the original. But 
there is no special way of treating either class of prints. The difference 
between the best and the less good is due eutirely to the skill of the 



232 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

printer in producing the various hues, tints, and shades with printing 
brushes, in precisely the same way as the water-color painter. This 
holds good also of the engraver. The arts of engraving and of printing 
are practiced in Japan according to the dictates of experience, with no, 
or at the most but very slight, mechanical assistance. 

Cost of designs. The original design of "Yinaka genji," by Kuni- 
teru, called also Yichiyusai, cost 10 yen (about $7.60). 

That of "Nandina domestica," by Chinzan, Tsubaki, cost the same 
sum. 

Tost of engraving. " Yinaka genji," engraved by Kokichiro, Mo- 
rikawa, cost 10 yen (about $12.30), and took the engraver about 20 days. 
[The three sheets, executed respectively in 25, 2G, and 23 printings, or 
in all 71 printings, required the cutting of 37 blocks. See the notes by 
the editor, p. 210, concerning the discrepancy between number of print- 
ings and number of blocks.] 

"Nandina domestica," engraved by Kotaro, Ivido, cost 8.1 yen (about 
$6.38), and took about seven days in the doing. [There are 33 print- 
ings, but the number of blocks used is not stated.] 

Cost of printing. The printer of "Yinaka genji," Tsurusabro, 
Nakamura, received 70 sen (about 51 cents) per day. He printed 3,000 
sheets per day from the black block, and 700 to 800 sheets per day Irom 
the color blocks. 

The printer of " Namibia domestica,'* Yiwakichi, Yamamoto, received 
one yen (about 76 cents) per day. He finished about 200 sheets per 
week. 

The people engaged in home industries do not generally take a rest 
on Sunday. The week, therefore, has seven days of about eight hours 
each. As "Xandina domestica" lias 33 printings, 200 finished sheets 
are equal to 6,600 impressions per week, or !>13 per day. The numbers 
differ, hoAvever, according to the different nature of the blocks. Of the 
easiest, for instance, such as a uniform green for the leaves, 1,200 to 
1,800 sheets can be printed in a day, while of the most difficult ones, 
such as those giving the half-tints in the fruit, only 000 to 700 sheets 
can be printed. 

NOTES BY THE EDITOR. 

To any one familiar with the history of the technique of relief engrav- 
ing, the reading of Mr. Tokuno's communication makes it evident that 
the methods used by the Japanese engravers of to-day, so far as they 
have not been influenced by European precept, are precisely those used 
in Europe in the 15th, 10th and 17th centuries. In other words, these 
artists are not, correctly speaking, wood-engravers, but woodcutters. 
This is apparent from the material and the tools used by them. 

The material is wood cut in the direction of the fiber, i. e., planks, for 
which, since Bewick's time, blocks cut across the fiber or grain have been 
substituted with us. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.-Koehler. 



Plate XI. 



ssr^" 



■» „«~*«r 



#r* 



^""^^ 




o s 



fieport of National Museum, 1892.— Koehler. 



Plate XII. 




Report of National Museum, 1892,-Koehler. 



Plate XIII. 




JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AN1> WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 23S 



The tools arc knives, which with us have been displaced by gravers 
It is interesting - to compare the representation of a Japanese wood. 
cutter (PI. vi) with the oldest known representation of a European 
wood-cutter (Fig. 2), here reproduced from Jost Amman's "Beschrei- 
bung aller Stande" (generally, although not quite correctly, called 
"Book of Trades"), published in Frankfort-on-the-Main in the year 
15G8. As Jost Amman was a very prolific designer for wood-cutters, 
he must have been thoroughly familiar with the craft, and his repre- 
sentation may therefore be 
accepted as reliable. At 
first sight the way of hold- 
ing the tool adopted by Am- 
man's " Formsehneider " 
(form -cutter, i. e., wood- 
cutter) impresses one as 
peculiar, and perhaps un- 
warranted. A glance at PL 
VI, however, shows a strik- 
ing analogy between the 
manner of holding the tool 
of the Japanese "Form 
Schneider" of to-day aud 
that of his European prede- 
cessor of the sixteenth cen- 
tury, i. e., they both hold 
the tool perpendicularly, 
the only difference being 
that the Asiatic uses also 
the left hand in guiding it. 
The modern Japanese docu- 
ment may therefore serve 
to confirm the correctness 
of Jost Amman's delineation. 

Of the shape of the knife used by the old wood-cutters of Europe 
and of the way of grinding it, we have no positive knowledge, as the 
representations of tools which often accompany the monograms of the 
"Forinschiieider" on sixteenth century wood-cuts are too small, and 
oftentimes too fantastic, to be of any use for information. The knives 
or "engraving points," as he called them, used by J. M. Papillon, the 
well-known French wood-cutter of the eighteenth century, are figured 
and fully described in his "Traite de la Gravure en Bois," 2 volumes, 
Paris, lTlili. The blades were made of clock springs mounted in split 
wooden handles, in which they were fastened by means of a piece of 
string wound around them. Fig. 3 shows one of these knives, actual 
size, reproduced from PI. iv in Papillon's second volume. It is flat on 
the side not shown in the illustration, beveled on the side shown, and 




Fig. 2. 
A European Wood-Cutter of ihe xvi. Century. 

F lost Amman's "Book ol Trades," [568. 



234 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892- 



cut off obliquely at the extremity. The straight edge is the cutting 
edge. The Japanese knife (see Fig. 1) at first sight seems to be simi- 
larly constructed. Its blade is, indeed, heavier, but it is mounted in 
a somewhat similar handle, not split, however, but with only a slit 
in it, into which the blade is wedged, and in which it is 
held in place by a ferrule.* it is furthermore beveled 
on oue side like Papillon's knife; but the bevel is on 
the opposite side, and there is a bevel also along the 
edge which forms an angle with the long edge of the 
knife. This is necessary, because the cutting edge is 
the short oblique one and not the long edge. That 
this is so is apparent from the way in which the Japa- 
nese wood-cutter holds the knife on PI. vi. 

It is worth remarking that Papillon's way of hold- 
ing the knife differed radically from that of his Euro- 
pean predecessors and of the Japanese wood-cutters 
of to-day. Pig. 4, also taken from Papillon's second 
«/W.^^^ ^» volume, illustrates this point. 

In the method of transferring the design to the 
plank, we again find a close analogy; for although the 
early wood-cut draftsmen of Europe in most cases, 
probably, drew their designs directly on the wood 
with pen and ink, it is well known also that some- 
times the drawing was made on a sheet of paper and 
pasted on the plank, face downward, in precisely the 
way which is practiced in Japan at present. 

Still more curious, however, is the similarity be- 
tween the instrument, "baren," used by the printers 
of Japan, and the earliest contrivance for taking im- 
pressions from cut blocks, of which mention is made, 
so far as at present known, in a European book. The 
" bareu " has the form of a little shield. In the treatise 
on painting, written by Cennino Cennini da Colle di 
Valdelse, towards the close of the fourteenth century, 
chapter 17.3, entitled "How to paint on cloth with a 
form," the following directions are given: A wood 
block upon which the design has been cut is to be 
charged with color. For this purpose a glove is to be 
worn on the left hand, the color to be used is to be 
spread on the palm of the hand, and the block is then 
to be charged with the color, '•carefully, so that the 
parts cut out do not fill up," the gloved hand doing 
from h» -'Traite,- wee.) the office of a printer's ball. The cloth is now to be 
laid on the block charged with color, and then, continues Cennini, "take 



A 

A 



IB 



Fig. 3. 
The Knife used 
Papillon. 



* Papillon also describes this arrangement, but prefers tbe one shown in Fig. 3. 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 235 

a shield of wood in the right and press with the back upon the surface, 
so far as the cut plank will bear it."* It is, however, apparent from 
this most summary description that Cennini's rude contrivance is not 
to be compared for efficiency with the Japanese "baren," with its 
twisted cord packing and ribbed bamboo sheath. Nor does the print- 




Fig t. 

Papillon's Manner op Holdino the Knife. 

I'r lua -Traite," 1766. 



ing - shield mentioned by Ceunini seem to have come largely into use, 
for the instruments generally supposed to have been employed in 
Europe for taking impressions previous to the introduction of the 
press are rubbers (which, however, might have been shield-shaped) 
and rollers, of which the latter remained in use for the taking of 



* Quoted from Ilg'a translation, in Quellensehriften tier Kunstgeschichte, Vol. I, 

Vienna, 1871, p. 122. 



236 REPORT 1 OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

proofs down to the time of Papillon, who describes and figures thein 
in the book before cited. 

That the method of plugging practiced by the Japanese wood-cut- 
ters — evidently by square instead of round plugs — is the same as the 
old European method is not to be wondered at in view of the identity 
of the materials used. 

With these elementary factors of materials, tools, and appliances, the 
similarity between Japanese and sixteenth century European wood. 
cutting ends, however, and further examination discloses differences of 
a very marked kind. 

it is well-known that the work of the old European wood-cutters is 
essentially black-line facsimile, i. e., the reproduction, more or less 
faithfully, of drawings in black lines, generally pen and ink drawings, 
on a light ground. It was this limitation which threw the wood-cut out 
of the race with the other reproductive arts, until it was enabled to 
enter the lists again after it had been transformed into wood-en- 
graving. The woodcutters and printers of Europe did, indeed, attempt 
to produce color effects as early as 1457, this being the year in which 
appeared Fust and Sehoeffer's Psalter, the first dated printed book, so 
far as we know, and at the same time the first dated piece of color- 
printing. This, however, was merely work of a decorative character. 
The first pictures really printed in colors are Cranach's chiaroscuros, 
the oldest of which are dated 150G, and, of works printed in positive 
colors, Jost de Negker's portrait of Jacob Fugger, about 1512, and 
Altdorfer's Beautiful Maria of Ratisbonne, about 1519. But of these 
two kinds of productions, only the first, the chiaroscuros (clairobscurs, 
Helldunkel) — that is to say, imitations of India ink and sepia drawings 
and other monochromes — came largely iuto use during the sixteenth, 
seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, while the attempts to introduce 
printing from relief blocks in positive colors, although renewed from 
time to time, never succeeded to any extent, so that it may be said even 
to-day that chromoxylography is practiced only occasionally, except 
for such coarse work as advertisements, show bills, etc.* 

The Japanese, as a matter of course, have also produced and still 
produce facsimiles of drawings in black lines, but owing, possibly, to 
the fact that their artists use the brush instead of the pen or some 
still more unyielding point, they were soon led to attempt the repro- 
duction of washed drawings, not only in black and grays, but also in 
positive colors. Their earliest productions of this kind do not, indeed, 
according to Prof. Fenollosa, go back beyond about the year 1715, t but 

* As these notes treat only of relief printing no account is taken here of chromo- 
chalcography and chromolithography. 

tTkere is considerable variation in the statements found in books concerning tke 
oldest specimens of Japanese color-printing. From Dr. Justus Briuckmann's Kunst 
und Handwerk in Japan (Berlin, 1889, p. 222), we learn that these specimens, accord- 
ing to a Japanese author, Sakakiwara, date from the year 1695, although ou p. 237 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 237 

they made up for their later appearance in the field by a prodigious ac 
tivity and a superb facility of execution — within the limitations of their 
art — that far outstripped t lie isolated achievements of their earlier Euro- 
pean colleagues. 

We have seen that, according to Mr. Tokuuo, the highesl aim of 
Japanese ckromoxylography is the imitation of the original, even to 
the sweep of the brush, so close that an inexperienced eye shall tind it 
difficult to tell the printed counterfeit from the painting made by the 
hand of the artist, and it must be admitted that the wood cutters and 
pri nters of Japan have been wonderfully successful in their efforts, not 
only in the reproduction of black- and- whites, for which, also, several 
printings are generally used, but quite as much with designs in color. 
It is true, certainly, that Japanese painting lends itself more easily to 
deceptive imitation than European painting; but there is still another 
cause to be assigned for the success of Japanese color-printing in this 
respect, and that is the method of printing practiced by the Japanese, 
or, more correctly speaking, their method of charging ("inking") the 
block.* 

of the same book it is stated that Torii Kiyonobu, who was not horn until 1688, wa3 
the first painter who had his designs reproduced by color-printing'. According to 
Theodore Duret (see ChronikfurvervielfaltigendeKunst, 1889, No. 6), the first color- 
prints with two or three tints were produced between 1710 and 1720. Finally, ac- 
cording to Dr. Win. Anderson, the author of the Catalogue of Prints and Books 
illustrating the History of Engraving in Japan, issued by the Burlington Fine Arts 
Club in 1888, the date is about the year 1700 (see p. XVII of the catalogue named). 
Prof. Fenollosa, however, is of opinion that these earlier specimens were not color- 
prints, but colored prints, i. e., prints tinted by hand. 

* Dr. Brinekmauu, p. 230 of the book previously quoted, says that in Japan "we 
look in vain for the painted types of the color-prints, since the artist who work j 
for color-printing creates independent works of art by its means," while, on the con- 
trary, he says of us that we claim triumphantly to have reached our aim in repro- 
duction "when it becomes impossible to tell the original from the copy without 
close investigation." Dr. Brinckmann, indeed, contradicts himself, when, on p. 288, 
he speaks of the publication of the paintings of Korin and of his brother Ken/.an, a 
celebrated ceramic artist, by Hoitsu, about a century after the death of these artists, 
and Mr. Tokuno's statement that the highest aim of Japanese printing " is to pro- 
duce impressions which an inexperienced eye can hardly distinguish from the origi- 
nal," certainly shows that the first statement made by the author named, however 
broadly it may apply to certain kinds of printing, is not true absolutely. More- 
over, among the specimens sent to the U. S. National Museum by Mr. Tokuno, there 
are several reproductions of paintings, including a book in two volumes, "Shu bi g\\ a 
kan.'or reduced copies of pictures drawn by eminent old artists of the Kioto or Shijo 
school. 

Color-prints made without painted originals to work from are also found among 
our own productions, although they are of a subordinate rank and do not aspire to 
rival the brilliant productions of the Japanese color-printers. Sketches in color are 
rarely made for the colored pictures in the comic journals like "Puck." These pic- 
tures are printed from four stones, one giving the design and modelling in black or 
brown, the other three supplying the coloring by means of Iris tints, two running 
in one direction, the third at right angles to it. and these Iris tints are mostly ad- 
justed on the press under the direction of the designer, without an original by 



238 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



The old printers <>f Europe, down to the beginning- of this century, 
inked their blocks with printer's balls, such as are shown in Fig. 5, 
reproduced from Jost Amman's " Charta Lusoria," published at Nurem- 
berg in the year 1588. The custom of the present day is to use elastic 
.rollers, made of a mass consisting of glue, molasses, etc. On our steam 
presses the inking is also done by rollers. The ink used in all cases 

is linseed-oil varnish, with 
which the pigment has been 
ground up. Water - colors 
have, indeed, been tried for 
printing occasionally, but 
practically without success, 
except for the printing of wall 
papers. The Japanese print- 
ers, on the contrary, so far as 
they have not been affected 
by European methods, use 
nothing but water-colors, and 
instead of balls or rollers they 
employ brushes, that is to say, 
they paint their blocks. There 
is a very obvious advantage 
in the use of water-colors by 
the Japanese printers, as all 
the originals to be imitated 
by them are painted in water- 
colors. It is evident that the 
brilliancy and quality of the 
pigments are the same in orig- 
inal and copy, while the pig- 
ments which we use for our 
chromoxylographic and chro- 
molithographic printing, be- 
ing mixed with linseed-oil 
varnish, are affected by it in 
The use of a brush 




Fi£ 



Two of PRINTERS' Calls. 
From .i.-t \i an's " Charta r.usoria," 1588. 

their purity as well as in their surface quality. 
instead of a roller for inking the blocks is also a factor of great im- 
portance. The brash is a pliable instrument, capable of expression in 



which to be guided. A small specimen of this kind is shown in Frame 67 A, on the 
eastern side of the Hall of Graphic Arts. Much more brilliant work has, however, 
been done by the same means. The old chiaroscuro printers were also in a measure 
independent of the artist, not only sometimes adding tints to designs by artists long 
dead, hut varying these tints for the same, picture. The tint blocks for Diircr's por- 
trait of Varulmler, for instance, were added after his death, and there are impressions 
in brownish and in greenish tints. In this case the liberties taken by the printer 
w ere permissible, from the same cause which favors the Japanese color-printers, that 
is to say, because the coloring aud lighting of the old chiaroscuros are purely con- 
ventional. 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 23'J 

the hands of an intelligent being-. The roller, on the contrary, even in 
the hands of the most skilled printer, is much less pliable, and on the 
steam press it is without any pliancy. This quality has, indeed, be- 
come a merit in the steam press, so that it is now looked upon as more- 
reliable than the hand press. But this is true only in so far as uni- 
formity of result in the impressions is concerned. The artist can do 
nothing- with it, while with a bare block or plate and a brush full of 
color he can do wonders. We have seen this of late years in the re- 
newed development of the monotype, and it may. indeed, be said of 
Japanese printing that it involves, at least in its best productions, the 
principle of the monotype. It follows from this that the Japanese 
printer must be something of an artist. In the words of Mr. Tokuno, 
he must have the skill to produce "the various hues and shades with 
printing brushes, in precisely the same way as the water-color painters 
do.'" • 

As the color is laid on the block with the brush, the facilities offered 
by this tool can, as a matter of course, be utilized, and are utilized to 
their fullest extent, by the Japanese printer. He can deposit more or 
less pigment on the block, according as he may need a stronger or a 
more delicate tint, and he can even produce gradations on it quite inde- 
pendent of the wood-cutter ; that is to say, on a perfectly flat block. All 
the gradations from light to dark seen in Japanese color-prints are the 
result of the printer's brush used on the block, assisted sometimes, it 
is said, by wiping with the finger. The roller which we use for inking 
our blocks is not capable of producing such gradations,* as it deposits 
a uniform film of ink all over the surface. The consequence is that 
with us the gradations are produced by the engraver, who cuts away 
more and more of the wood, either in lines or in dots, as he proceeds 
from dark through lighter tints to white, while the Japanese wood- 
cutter furnishes to the printer blocks which are solid even in those 
parts which in the impression are to be gradated. It follows that what 
we call "engraved tints," either flat or gradated, are never seen in 
purely Japanese wood-cuts. The blocks offer nothing but flat masses, 
and such lines as appear in them serve merely to bring out the forms, 
patterns of stuffs, textures, etc. Whenever a European engraver has 
to render a sky gradated simply from a darker blue, through lighter 
tints downward, and finally merging into a tint so light that he must 
express it by white, he cuts a series of white lines, narrower and farther 
apart where the color is to be strongest, and gradually increasing in 
width and nearness as it decreases in strength, until, where the white 
paper is to show, he cuts away all the wood. His Japanese colleague, 
on the contrary, gives the printer a flat block, on which those parts 
merely are cut away which correspond to objects seen against the sky, 
such as trees, mountains, houses, etc., and which, therefore, must be 
kept free from the blue of the sky behind them. On this block the 



'Except iii '"Iris printing," which, however, need not he considered here. 



240 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

printer paints the gradations needed, and if be can not get a .satisfac- 
tory result with one printing, lie uses the same block twice, only vary- 
ing the ''inking." In the picture " Yinaka genji," for instance, the sky 
is printed once with a gradation reaching from the top of the picture 
to about the middle of the sky, and again a second time with a grada- 
tion reaching considerably farther down. It is evident that the upper 
part of the sky may thus be strengthened, and the gradual shading- 
off into the Avhite along the horizon made still more gradual. 

From what has just been said, it is apparent that the same block 
may be used twice on the same picture. This is true not only of the 
printing of skies, but the same device is resorted to also in other parts 
of the design. A block may lie printed in a flat tint or color the first 
time, and it may then be charged a second time with another color, 
say a gray, but gradated, and printed on top of the first color to pro- 
duce modulations. The number of planks cut for a Japanese color- 
print, therefore, is very far from corresponding to the number of print- 
ings. It is, moreover, reduced still further by painting the same block 
with different colors in different parts. These colors may. indeed, be 
printed at the same time,* but it happens frequently that they are used 
separately; that is to say. that the block is painted and printed in part 
only, and then laid aside, to be taken up again later and painted on 
those parts which were left uninked before. Thus of the three sheets 
which together "make up the picture "'Yinaka genji," the first has 25 
impressions, the second 26, the third 23. Of blocks used, however, 
there are only 13 for the first, 10 for the second, and II for the third, or 
37 cuts, executed on 21 planks, for 71 printings. 

It is seen from the number of impressions needed for the completion 
of the picture just alluded to, that the Japanese printers are not bent 
on saving labor in this respect, a fact which is occasionally shown in a 
most curious manner, as when a single pair of red lips is printed by 
itself in a flat red, although several other red blocks are used for the 
same picture. From 23 to 26 impressions for a print like *' Yinaka 
genji," seems to us an excessive number. Even for a refined, although 
brilliant fruit piece, like "Nandina domestica," 33 printings impresses 
us as extraordinary, in spite of the fact that the use of flat blocks makes 
it necessary to multiply them so as to produce the desired gradations. 
With our means of producing gradations by either wood- en graving 



'According to Dr. Bpnckmann (p. 228), tbe inking of one block with several colors 
is occasionally carried so far as to produce a complete picture in several colors atone 
impression. Amon# other prints, he describes one of a gray grasshopper feeding on 
th<- reddish meat of a piece of watermelon, the green rind and the black seeds of 
which are also seen. The four colors named are applied, each separately, to dif- 
ferent parts of the block. We have here the principle of rubbing in a plate in 
different colors, used so extensively by the printers of the colored stipples produced 
iu the eighteenth century and now again popular. The principle has not, however, 
been applied to relief printing among us, except by Wm. Blake, and even by him 
onlv to a very limited extent. 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PRINTING. 241 

or lithographing, 8 to 10 printings would be considered ;i large number 
for the reproduction of an original of similar character. But even 
33 is not the highest number of impressions used. I am informed by 
Prof. Fenollosa that as many as 120 impressions were used lately on a 
reproduction of a Japanese water-color painting, although the number 
was considerably reduced in the printing of a subsequent edition of the 
same picture by a different manipulation of the blocks.* It may be of 
interest to state here, for the sake of comparison, that the highest num- 
ber of printings used on our most complicated chromolithographs is 
about fifty, 

From the statement by Mr. Tokuno concerning the pigments used in 
characteristically Japanese color-printing, /'. <■., blue, yellow, and red, 
besides black and white, it would seem as if the whole system of this 
kind of printing were based upon the old three-color theory, which pre- 
vailed also with the early chromochalcographic and chromolithographic 
printers of Europe. It is nevertheless true that the Japanese print- 
ers do not, at present at least, produce the so-called secondary colors, 
green, orange, violet, by printing the so-called primaries, i. e.,blue and 
yellow for green, yellow and red for orange, and red and blue for 
violet, over one another. Wherever these ••secondaries" are needed — 
and the same observation holds good also for the "tertiaries" — they are 
printed by themselves, although the "primaries" which enter into them 
may occur in the same picture. I am again indebted to Prof. Fenollosa 
for having called my attention to the fact that the printing of the 
"primaries" over one another to produce the '•secondaries*' does, in- 
deed, occur in the earlier work of the Japanese printers, but it is evi- 
dent that it has now been abandoned. As subdued and broken colors 
were mainly used in the earlier Japanese color-prints, while the modern 
show a decided preference for brilliant and even glaring coloring, it is 
quite likely that this printing of the "primaries" over one another, 
which with us is considered a decided advantage, more especially in 
cheaper and simpler grades of work, as it saves time and money, was 
given up, even in such work as the printing of pictures for fans, for the 
sake of the more brilliant effects which can be produced by mixing the 
pigments themselves. 

This brings us to another point of great importance, and that is the 
little care had by the Japanese wood-cutters andprinters for labor- saving 
devices and mechanical aids. ••Our arts of engraving and printing," 
says Mr. Tokuno in one of his letters, u rely entirely upon experience, 
with no, or very slight mechanical assistance." The manual skill, which 
has grown out of this reliance upon experience and disdain for mechan- 
ical aids, is truly marvelous. It is difficult to believe thai all Japan- 

*The earliest attempts at color-printing made by the Japanese, were, of course, 
much simpler, beginning with from two to four Mocks. Sec Dr. Anderson's cata- 
logue, before quoted, p. xvn; also Brinckmaim. 
H. Mis. 114, pt, 2 16 



242 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

ese wood-cutting', even to the finest lines in the most delicate black- 
and-white facsimile work, is done vvitli the one clumsy knife repre- 
sented in Fig. 1. We know from Papillon's book that he found it nec- 
essary to use three grades of knives, according to the grade of work to 
be executed, and we naturally arrive at the conclusion that the Japan- 
ese woodcutter alsoac commodates his knife to his work. Neverthe- 
less, Mr. Tokuno replies to a direct question on this point: " Our 
engraving on wood depends wholly on the skill of the engravers. With 
only one knife, such as that sent you, they can execute all grades of 
work, from the roughest to the finest. We therefore have no other 
kind of knife." 

The answers given to questions regarding the difficulties which con- 
front the Japanese printer, and which to us would seem insurmounta- 
ble, are of the same tenor. It seems impossible to prevent smearing, 
with blocks having great shallow hollows, inked with a brush, and 
therefore charged with color, not only on the parts left standing in 
relief, but also in the depressions, and with the thin moist paper used, 
held down on the plank with one hand, while the other guides the 
" baren." To the question whether any special precautions are adopted 
to prevent smearing, Mr. Tokuno replies: ''Although smearing from 
the depressions in the block seems almost unavoidable, experienced 
printers, nevertheless, work without fear of it, and there is no special 
way of preventing it." Again, to the question whether mechanical 
means are not used for registering, the reply is: " Our priuters use no 
mechanical means whatever, depending simply upon experience/' To 
illustrate this point, a water-color drawing was sent, of which Plate xm 
is a reproduction. To the inquiry, how it is possible to print with 
water-colors on moist paper, keep the paper moist to prevent contrac- 
tion, and lay the sheets on top of one another without offsetting, the 
answer given is: "This can only be done well by an experienced 
printer," to which laconic statement a few technical points are added, 
which have already been given in Mr. Tokuno's communication. 

A visitor to the U. S. National Museum, who sees, for the first time, and 
without explanation, the exhibit of Japanese wood-cutting and wood-cut 
printing, the whole (except theprinted speeiniensand thedrawings illus- 
trating tools, etc.) crowded into a case measuring about -1 by 3J by 2A feet, 
will most probably take it for granted that he has before him a collection 
of miniature models. In this assumption he would, however, be grossly 
mistaken. Considerably more room would, of course, be needed to 
arrange the tools, etc., for practical working use, but both the tools and 
the materials shown are actually those employed by the wood-cutters 
and printers of Japan. It needs only to think of the heavy machinery 
used by our printers, even by those who confine themselves to taking 
proofs for wood-engravers, to realize the contrast between the methods 
of Japan and our own. Other occasions for comparing these methods 
have been brought out by the questions addressed to Mr. Tokuno, as 



JAPANESE WOOD-CUTTING AND WOOD-CUT PKINTING. 243 

given above, and the answers returned by him-. The contrast becomes 
still more marked when Ave recall, for instance, the methods of prepar- 
ing colors described by Mr. Tokuno. It is true, no doubt, that, influ- 
enced by us, the Japanese are coining to depend more and more on 
machinery, but it is also true that by their old and simple methods, 
trusting to their experience, their skill, and their artistic feeling, they 
have produced the best of their work, in which their national charac- 
teristics have found their most original expression. Nor have they, ac- 
cording to Mr. Tokuno's statements, suffered in productiveness in con- 
sequence of their methods. The short time spent in cutting the .">7 
planks needed for the printing of k ' Yinaka genji," i. c. twenty days, is 
astonishing enough in spite of the simplicity of the blocks, but our as- 
tonishment increases to wonder when we read of the number of im- 
pressions made per day by the Japanese printers, and consider at the 
same time the tedious methods employed in charging the block with 
color. As I feared a misunderstanding on my part of the figures 
given by Mr. Tokuno, I asked him to consider my interpretation of 
his statements, and in reply the original flgures were confirmed, viz., 
3,000 sheets per day of about eight hours from the black block, and 
700 to 800 sheets per day from the color blocks of u Yinaka genji," 
and on an average 943 sheets per day of u Nandina domestiea," the 
number varying from 1,800 for the simplest to 600 for the most diffi- 
cult blocks. It is impossible to make a direct comparison between the 
productivity of the Japanese and our own printers, as the methods 
differ too radically, and as long editions of wood-engravings are but 
very rarely printed nowadays on the hand-press. The following figures 
will nevertheless be of some interest: Mr. Thos. H. Brennan, wood- 
engraving proof-printer, of Boston, assures me that 250 impressions 
from a block measuring 11 by 14 inches and 350 from one measuring 5 
by 7 inches is a fair average for a working day of nine hours. This is, 
of course, for first-class work and for first class engraving. Messrs. 
L. Prang & Co., the well known chromolithographers, also of Boston, 
write me that the number of impressions which a lithographic printer 
prints on the hand-press, whether it be from a crayon stone or a pen- 
and-ink stone, in black or in colors, varies from 175 to- 250 per day of 
nine hours, and that 200 would be considered a good average. 

It goes without saying that the Japanese methods described above 
are not suitable for application to our art. A complicated sky, tor in- 
stance, with all its wealth of delicate tints, such as we And it in the 
works of our best landscape painters, or the human countenance, ex- 
pressive of the deepest emotions of the soul, as our best figure painters 
set it ii] i before us, can be interpreted for us by the skill of our wood 
engravers, and even their coloring can be successfully approached by 
our color-printing processes in their most refined development, but they 
can never be rendered by means of flat blocks, even when painted in 
delicate gradations by the most skilled of Japanese printers. In try- 



244 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

mg to arrive at an estimate of Japanese color-printing - , it must not be 
forgotten, therefore, that problems like those just alluded to are never 
offered to the Japanese reproductive artists. The originals which they 
are asked, not to interpret, but rather to imitate, or the original color- 
prints which they produce, are, indeed, exceedingly beautiful, and 
worthy of attentive study as giving embodiment to the ideals of a 
highly gifted people, moving in an intellectual atmosphere quite differ- 
ent from our own, but it remains true, nevertheless, that they are purely 
and frankly conventional. Looking at the technical side of the question 
only, it may be said that it is this tact which has enabled the Japanese 
wood-cutters and printers to hud methods answering their wants almost 
to perfection. In a more searching study of Japanese art, other con- 
ditions would, indeed, also have to be considered, but their discussion 
would be out of place in a report like the present, which is of necessity 
limited to a statement of facts. 



THE RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 



A SERIES OF ESSAYS DISCUSSING THE NATURE AND SCIENTIFIC USES 
OF FOSSIL REMAINS AND THE NECESSITY FOR THEIR SYS- 
TEMATIC COLLECTION AND PERMANENT CONSER- 
VATION IN PUBLIC MUSEUMS. 



By Charles A. White. 



245 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Preface 247 

I. The character and origin of fossil remains 251 

II. Sedimentary formations, their character and limitation 268 

III. The relation of fossil remains to structural geology 275 

IV. The relation of hiology to systematic and historical geology 284 

V. The relative chronological value of fossil renia ins 302 

VI. Correlative geology and its criteria 314 

VII. The criteria of past aqueous conditions 328 

VIII, The claims of geological science upon investigators, museums, etc 302 



246 



PREFACE. 



Iu the preparation of these essays I have had several objects in 
view, among which are a further presentation of elementary matter 
pertaining' to biological geology than has before been published, the 
defense of biology as an indispensable aid in geological investigation 
and the repudiation of certain untenable claims that have been made 
in its favor, an application of the principles discussed to the practical 
work of the geologist, and the demonstration of the necessity of the 
preservation of fossil remains in public museums as storehouses of 
evidence upon geological questions. These essays are therefore con- 
lined mainly to a discussion of questions pertaining to biological 
geology, including both its structural and systematic branches, only 
incidental reference being made to other important branches of geo- 
logical science, such as mineralogy, lithology, dynamic geology, etc. 

I have intended an approximately full statement of the subjects 
selected for discussion as well as scientific accuracy in my conclusions, 
but in the manner of their presentation I have chosen to address gen- 
eral readers and students of geology as well as special investigators. 
I have accordingly presented a more detailed and methodical state- 
ment of the principal facts upon which biological geology is based 
than otherwise would have been thought desirable. Every working 
geologist is necessarily more or less familiar with the principles and 
criteria which are based upon these facts, but a comprehensive knowl- 
edge of them is not yet accessible to the student except by personal 
experience or didactic instruction; that is, because these principles 
and criteria have not yet been systematically and fully stated in pub- 
lished works the greater part of accessible knowledge concerning them 
is traditional. 

It is true that some of the knowledge referred to has been briefly 
and more or less clearly presented in text-books, but the elements of 
biological geology are too comprehensive to allow of a satisfactory 
summary in even the largest of them. All discussions of principles 
and criteria pertaining to that subject are also usually omitted by 
authors of other works, evidently upon the reasonable ground that 
scientific writings ought not to be encumbered by a repetition of ele- 
mentary principles, and upon the less reasonable assumption that the 

247 



248 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

reader is familiar with and accepts as trustworthy those which they 
have adopted for their own guidance. 

If it were not for my evident need of frequent reference to such 
elementary matter the desirability of publishing it in this connection 
might perhaps be questioned by those who are already familiar with 
it and with the range of its applicability. Still, the working geologist 
needs only to recall his early embarrassments and later experiences to 
be assured that the time has not yet passed when even the frequent 
enunciation of elementary truths is of material benefit to the student. 
I not only have not hesitated to adopt such a treatment of the subjects 
of these essays, but I have not sought to avoid numerous trite remarks 
and commonplace statements. These, however, are employed not so 
much for the purpose of conveying information as for that of giving 
logical continuity to the statement of my own ideas and of leaving the 
least possible room for doubt as to my meaning. 

The relation of biology to geological investigation is so fundamental 
and the facts pertaining to it are so concrete and so accordant with 
both biological and physical laws, that the prevalence of any opposition 
to its legitimate claims seems unnatural. It is also unnatural that 
claims should still be made in favor of that relation which are not sup- 
ported by the principles of modern biology. Of late years, however, 
such wide differences of opinion have become prominent, some of them 
being especially so among American geologists. In their writings 
some of these authors either entirely ignore biological evidence as 
furnished by fossil remains or treat the best of it as being of little 
importance in the investigation of structural geology. Others have 
taken quite opposite ground, not only making the just claim that 
biological evidence is indispensable in structural geology, but the 
untenable one that it is absolute and exclusive in systematic geology. 
Notwithstanding the prevalence of these extreme views, I have ab- 
stained from a controversial attitude in the treatment of the subjects 
to which they pertain, preferring to attempt their statement in such a 
way that the reader will necessarily reach correct conclusions. 

Because it is necessary to discuss those differences of opinion in these 
essays, it is desirable to refer briefly to their origin and the causes of 
their perpetuation. Doubtless some of the causes of their existence 
are remote or obscure, but it is apparent that they are largely due to 
the broadening of the field of geological investigation, making it neces 
sary that it should be divided into numerous specialties. In such cases 
it is natural that differences of opinion should be greatest between 
those investigators whose chosen studies are most diverse in character. 
Another cause is doubtless one of inheritance from the early condition 
of both geological and biological science. 

A special cause of the perpetuation of these extreme views evi- 
dently exists in the form of personal domination by such of those who 
entertain them as happen to possess unusual opportunities for their 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 249 

enforcement. It is well known that such influence has at various times 
and in various ways retarded the progress of geological science and 
that there is danger of its being exercised in all cases when the per- 
sonal judgment of an observer is liable to be modified or controlled 
by official or other temporary authority. 

The opinions which have been referred to as the result of inherited 
errors are mainly those which relate to the application of biology to 
systematic geology. They are evidently due to the difference of ability 
or of inclination among the authors who have written upon those sub- 
jects, to adjust the early methods of thought which they have adopted 
to those which were made necessary by the great revolution in the 
views of naturalists upon the subject of evolution, which took place 
after standards for both biology and geology had been formulated and 
generally adopted. I regard this cause as being so important that I 
have arranged the discussions of the geological scale now in use so 
that they embrace references to the condition of thought among pro- 
moters of geological science from about 25 years before the revolution to 
the present time. 

It is apparent, however, that, besides, the tendency to follow estab- 
lished channels of thought, which has just been referred to the contin- 
uance of these differences of opinion, and the consequent differences in 
practice among geologists, are largely due to the fact that the princi- 
ples and criteria which are necessary to constitute a standard or series 
of standards which shall accord with modern views of biology have 
never been conventionally formulated and published. It is very desir- 
able that concerted attempts toward such formulation should be made, 
but it is nevertheless true that the necessity for a special exercise of 
personal judgment in every act of geological investigation renders 
exact formulation peculiarly difficult. 

The attempts toward enunciating principles and formulating criteria 
which are made in these essays have been suggested by those of my 
own geological investigations which have been prosecuted mainly from 
a biological standpoint. Among the incentives to these attempts has 
been a desire to give to the readers of my published writings upon the 
subjects referred to a more explicit statement of the grounds of cer- 
tain opinions therein expressed than it was practicable to make in those 
writings. Indeed I believe the present general condition of geological 
science in all its departments demands from its active investigators 
some more definite public exposition of principles, and even of certain 
elements, than has yet been published. It is at least apparent that 
such publications for each subordinate branch of geology would be of 
great service to students because it would give them greater facility in 
comprehending the meaning of authors, and it would enable the latter 
to write more concisely and intelligibly, as well as more accurately, 
upon the results of their investigations. It would also give authors in 
the different branches of geology an opportunity to become better 



250 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

acquainted with the character and value of the work done by their 
colleagues. 

The differences of opinion which have been referred to have neces- 
sarily produced corresponding differences in practice among" geologists, 
and 1 have therefore found it necessary to consider them in connection 
with the application of the principles discussed in these essays to the 
practical work of the geologist. In doing so I have taken occasion to 
show that both extremes have had the effect not only to retard the 
progress of geological science, but to diminish the practical value of 
geological investigation. Furthermore, I have taken every oppor- 
tunity to insist that notwithstanding the paramount value of fossil 
remains in structural and systematic geology the geologist, when in- 
vestigating these subjects will be without excuse if he should fail to 
avail himself of every attainable relevant fact, whether biological or 
physical. 

Finally, 1 have undertaken to point out some of the legitimate claims 
which geological science may make, not only upon individual investi- 
gators, but upon museums, and scientific organizations, and to show 
that these claims are based upon the necessities of science and not upon 
a sentimental idea. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 251 



I. THE CHARACTER AND ORIGIN OF FOSSIL REMAINS. 

In prosecuting the study of the fossil remains of animals and plants, 
the investigator may have either one or the other of its two leading 
objects in view, but each being so closely related to the other it is al- 
ways essential that they should be pursued with direct relation to each 
other. In the first case, the leading object to be attained is the exten- 
sion of our knowledge of the animal and vegetable kingdoms far beyond 
that which may be acquired by the study of living animals and plants, 
and in the second case it is to apply that knowledge to the study of 
structural and systematic geology. The object in the first case is 
purely paleontologieal; in the second it is not only to acquire paleonto- 
logical knowledge, but to apply it to various branches of geological in- 
vestigation. 

This essay, like the others which follow it, is written with imme- 
diate reference to the latter object, but the facts presented in it are of 
equal importance to the former. My principal purpo.se in writing it 
is the presentation of such facts as indicate the true significance and 
value of fossil remains in geological investigation that the references 
which are made in the following chapters may be the better understood. 
While I endeavor to point out clearly those facts which show the 
paramount value of fossil remains in geological investigation, I do 
not hesitate to also point out their imperfection as representatives of 
formerly existing faunas and floras as well as of separate members of 
the same. This candid treatment of the subject is not only proper in 
itself, but it is necessary in view of the fact that in the following essays 
I oppose certain views which are shown by geological literature to 
be held by many authors, especially those which indicate an under- 
estimation of the value of all fossil remains on the one hand and the 
relative overestimation of the value of certain kinds on the other. A 
large part of this essay is of the most elementary character, but the 
necessity for having such elementary matter at hand for reference has 
already been pointed out, and it will further appear in the following- 
essays. 

The substance of the bodies of animals considered with reference to 
the subject of fossili/ation may conveniently be divided into soft and 
hard parts. The soft parts are those constituting the organs by which 
the physiological functions of the body are performed, together with 
their connecting tissues, while the hard parts are skeletal and protec- 
tive in their character. Some animals are destitute of either skeletal 
or hard protective parts, and their bodies are therefore wholly soft or 
fleshy. 

The soft parts of animals are always so soon and so completely de- 
composed after death that they are never really fossilized, but in rare 



252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

cases the form of some of them has been preserved in fine sediments 
in the condition of imprints and molds.* Therefore in the study of 
fossil zoology we are, with the rare exceptions just indicated, confined 
to an investigation of the skeletal and protective parts of animals, be- 
cause these parts alone are capable of true fossilization. 

Those parts of the living animal are largely composed of mineral 
substances, and they are of various kinds and character, some being 
chitinous and some corneous, but the greater part are composed of 
lime compounds, the most common of which are bones and shells. They 
often are of different composition in different families or other divisions 
of the animal kingdom, and often thus different in different parts of the 
same animal. Being originally composed of mineral substances in inti- 
mate association with a small proportion of animal matter, and being 
usually still further mineralized by replacement of the animal by min- 
eral matter in the process of fossilization, they become nearly or quite 
as indestructible as are inorganic minerals. It is, however, true that 
all kinds of hard parts of animals, even those originally containing the 
greatest proportion of mineral substance, if exposed continuously to the 
atmosphere after the death of the animal, will, within a few years at 
most, become as completely decomposed as will the soft parts. That 
is, the hard parts of animals may become permanently fossilized under 
favorable conditions, or they may become as completely decomposed 
under those that are unfavorable as will the soft parts under all con- 
ditions. 

Compared with animals, the proportion of the component substance 
of plants, except that of a few kinds which quickly decompose after 
death, is very small. Much the greater proportion of the substance of 
all of them, aside from w T ater, is carbonaceous and comparatively slow to 
decompose, but none of it resists decomposition so fully as does most of 
the skeletal and protective parts of animals. Still, the complete decom- 
position of all plants is certain unless they fall under conditions which 
are specially favorable to their preservation. Therefore in the study of 
fossil botany we are confined to an investigation of imprints, mostly of 
leaves, and of such of the woody parts as may have become antiseptically 
changed by saturation with certain acids or with soluble salts, or com- 
pletely mineralized by a process to which I have applied the term histo- 
metabasist. Immense quantities of vegetable substance have in past 
geological time been accumulated and reduced to the fixed condition of 
carbon and thus permanently preserved in the form of coal, but this 
substance has seldom been found of material use in the study of fossil 
botany. 

See the close of this essay for an explanation of the different forms and con- 
ditions i]i which fossils are found and the different methods by which they have 
reached those conditions and acquired those forms. 

tSee remarks on conditions of fossilization at the close of this essay. 



RELATION OE BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 253 

Because even the hardest and most enduring of the component sub- 
stances of animalsand plants become entirely decomposed if continuously 
exposed to the atmosphere after death, it is necessary to their permanent 
preservation that they should fall under such conditions as exclude the 
atmosphere. Almost the only way in which this can be accomplished 
in a natural manner is by their subaqueous intombment in the con 
stantly accumulating sedimentu which are deposited at the bottom of 
all bodies of water. In the cases of aquatic animals such intombment 
of their remains is a necessary result of the nature of their habitat, but 
the remains of land animals and plants must reach such intombment 
accidentally if at all. The manner in which remains of land animals 
reach the waters, in the sediments of which they become into mbed, is by 
accidentally falling into those waters and sinking there, or into tribu- 
tary streams which transport them to the intombing sediments, their 
transportation being sometimes facilitated by buoyant gases which 
accumulate in recently dead bodies. Furthermore, the annual freshets 
which sweep the flood plains of rivers transport to such a sedimentary 
intombment remains of the various animals which at other times safely 
dwell there. Plant remains reach such intombment in similar ways, 
and also by the action of the winds. In the latter class of cases they 
are in the form of leaves and small fragments of the plants which grew 
in the vicinity of bodies of water. Besides the methods just mentioned 
remains of both animals and plants not unfrequently become intombed 
in the slime and flood accretions of marshes. 

It will be shown on following pages that the difference in the condi- 
tions under which the various kinds of fossil remains have been pre- 
served has much significance to the geologist, but it is proper to remark 
here that the more quiet the prevailing physical conditions and the less 
the necessity for the transportation of those remains to reach sediment- 
ary intombment the more likely were they to become fossilized and pre- 
served in a favorable condition for study. The conditions presented by 
an open seacoast were specially unfavorable because of the constant 
triturating action of the waves. It is doubtless mainly for this reason 
that so few remains of land animals and plants are found in marine 
deposits, notwithstanding the comparatively abundant opportunity that 
such remains must have had of being cast into marine waters. 

It is of such aqueous sediments as have just been referred to that the 
stratified formations of the earth are comrjosed, and it is such remains 
of animals and plants as have just been mentioned that constitute the 
fossils which are found to characterize them. 

The statements which have just been made indicate that some kinds 
of the animals and plants which existed informer geological epochs 
could not have become represented by fossil remains in the sedimentary 
formations, because no part of their bodies was fossilizable. They also 
indicate that of those which might have become thus represented the 
representation of some of them is necessarily less complete than is that 



254 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

of others, because their fossilizable parts were less indestructible in 
some cases and the conditions necessary to their fossilization were less 
favorable in others. Furthermore, they show that while the preserva- 
tion of the remains of some animals was a natural result of the condi- 
tions under which they lived, that of the remains of other auimals and 
of plants was in all eases the result of accidental or unusual conditions. 

The following- brief 'review of the animal and vegetable kingdoms is 
presented for the purpose of further applying the general statements 
that have just been made to the subject of this essay and of com- 
paring our presumably obtainable knowledge of extinct animal and 
vegetable forms with our more definite knowledge of those which now 
exist. The legitimate methods of this comparison have to some extent 
just been indicated and they will be further shown on subsequent pages. 
In the following remarks it will be necessary also to make some com- 
parisons of the now living land and aquatic animals, respectively, with 
those which lived in past geological epochs. 

If such a comparison could be made of all living with all extinct 
animals, the proportion of now living land animals would doubtless be 
shown to be much greater as a whole than it was during past geological 
time, because in the earlier get >logieal periods there were probably no land 
animals in existence, and their proportional numbers have since grad- 
ually increased. In discussing certain of the higher classes, however, 
mammals and birds for example, I assume that the proportion of 
extinct aquatic to land denizens was not far from the same that it now 
is, because the latter animals lived only in later geological time, dur- 
ing which time their general conditions of life have probably suffered 
comparatively little essential change 

Vertebrata. — Excluding si tine of the lowest and also some doubtful 
or exceptional forms, all vertebrates possess either Avell developed teeth 
or a bony skeleton, and much the greater part of them possess both. 
Under favorable conditions the fossilization of these animal substances is 
complete. Therefore, having fallen under such conditions, almost any 
vertebrate animal which existed in former geological time is likely to have 
left lossil remains. The epidermal structures, such as horns, hoofs, 
feathers, etc., which cover either the whole or portions of the bodies of 
certain vertebrates, being more destructible than bones and teeth, are 
not often preserved in a fossil condition except as imprints or casts. 
This remark, however, does not apply to the scales of teleost fishes, 
which, although epidermal in their character, are nearly or quite as 
indestructible as are the bones and teeth of those animals. 

Although the members of the orders Cetacea and Sirenia, and of the 
family Phocid** of the order Carnivora, are very numerous, they con- 
stitute only a small proportion of the whole class Mammalia, and it is 
these families alone every member of which is fully adapted to an aquatic 



"The small family to which the walruses belong should also he included here. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 255 

life. A considerable number of other mammals, such as various car- 
nivores, rodents, etc., are amphibious in their habits, but far the greater 
part of this important class are dwellers upon the land. Therefore, while 
remains of the extinct representatives of the aquatic animals just 
mentioned would naturally have become intombed in the sediments of 
the waters in which they lived, and have there become fossilized, 
remains of representatives of the strictly land mammals could have 
reached a similar intombment only in the indirect manner that has 
already been explained. That is, the intombment of the. remains of 
the aquatic mammals was almost a matter of course, while that of the 
remains of all others was the result of the exceptional and accidental 
falling or conveyance of their bodies into the water after death, or of 
their miring and dying in the slime of ponds and marshes. 

The greater part of the remarks which have just been made con- 
cerning mammals is applicable to birds, and perhaps in some respects 
with even greater force, for it is doubtful if so large a proportion of 
formerly existing birds as of mammals have become represented by 
fossil remains. Only a small proportion of now existing birds habitually 
live upon the water, and these, like all others, nest upon the land. The 
remains of at least a portion of those which habitually resort to the 
water are of course likely to become quickly intombed in its sediments, 
while remains of all strictly land birds must reach such intombment, 
if at all, by indirect or accidental means. Therefore, fossil remains 
of aquatic birds are more likely to be discovered in sedimentary rocks 
than are those of any others, although it is quite probable that the 
terrestrial kinds as greatly preponderated over aquatic kinds in former 
geological times as they now do. 

While all reptiles are air-breathers many of them habitually live in 
the water and in adjoining swamps and marshes. Many of this class, 
however, are not only confined to the land, but some of them abound in 
arid districts. The preservation of reptilian remains is, of course, sub- 
ject to conditions similar to those under which mammalian and avian 
remains are preserved, and it is therefore evident that while remains of 
aquatic and palustral reptiles may readily find sedimentary or slimy 
intombment those of strictly land reptiles are less likely to become thus 
preserved. It is doubtless in part for this reason that fossil remains of 
representatives of now living upland reptiles are so rare as compared 
with those of representatives of other living forms. It is true that alarge 
proportion of the great extinct subclass of Dinosauria were vegetable 
feeders, as is shown by their skeletal structure and especially by the 
character of their teeth, but most of those whose remains have been 
discovered were probably of lowland or palustral rather than of upland 
habitat. Their remains were therefore more likely to have undergone 
intombment than were thoseof the upland reptiles which may have been 
contemporary with them. That is, besides the usual methods in the 
case of land animals, their remains were liable to intoinbmeut by miring 



256 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

in the slime of marshes and shallow waters or by receiving a covering 
of such sediments as river floods usually carry. 

A few of the living Batrachia pass their whole lives in the water, but 
the greater proportion of them are, in their adult state, air-breathing 
paliistral animals. A smaller proportion of them live upon dry land, 
but these, like all the others, have aqueous respiration during their 
larval condition. Besides this, as a rule, those which are strictly land 
animals in their adult state seek the water at the breeding season. 
Therefore, a larger proportion of batraehian remains are likely to find 
paliistral, than other sedimentary, intombment. The living Batrachia 
do not constitute so conspicuous a class as do the other vertebrates, 
and fossil batraehian remains are also comparatively rare, but among 
the reasons for this rarity is doubtless the fact that few of the class 
inhabit the larger bodies of water, such as those in which the more im- 
portant formations were deposited. 

Because all fishes are of aquatic habitat the intombment of their 
remains in the sediments of the waters in which they lived is more a 
matter of course than it is in the case of any of the other vertebrates. 
It is true, however, that fossil fish remains are, as a rule, less abundant 
in the sedimentary formations than might be expected in view of the 
comparative abundance of fishes in now existing waters. This is diffi- 
cult to explain, even if it were now necessary to do so, but it is perhaps 
due in part to the entire destruction of their bodies in many cases by 
predatory enemies, in part to the large proportion of animal matter in 
their bones, and in part to other destructive causes acting upon the 
usually but not always fragile ichthyic skeleton. The absence of a 
true skeleton in many fishes ought also to be taken into consideration 
in this connection, extinct fishes of this kind being represented only, or 
mainly, by teeth and spines. 

Mollmca. — The hard parts of mollusks, those which are preservable 
by sedimentary intombment, consist mainly of lime carbonate with a 
smaller proportion of animal matter than the hard parts of vertebrates 
contain. They are sometimes internal; but these, strictly speaking, are 
not skeletal in the sense that the bones of vertebrates are so. Usually 
they form a protective shell which envelopes the whole, or the greater 
part, of the animal. Much the greater proportion of the members of 
this branch of the animal kingdom have aqueous respiration, and these 
consequently live only in the water. The others are air-breathers and 
live either upon the land or at the water's edge. Many species and 
genera and some whole families of both aquatic and laud mollusks have 
no hard parts, and their bodies are therefore immediately and com- 
pletely decomposed after death, leaving no trace of their former exist 
ence. The hard parts of aquatic mollusks find speedy intombment 
in the sediments at the bottom of the waters in which they lived, while 
those of land mollusks are liable to complete atmospheric decomposi- 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 257 

tion, or if thus intombed they musl read) those sediments in the acci- 
dental manner which has been described on preceding pages. 

It is reasonable to assume that at least as greal a proportion of ex- 
tinct, as of living mollusks were destitute of protective shells, and 
that as great a proportion were provided with only internal or other 
imperfect shelly parts. This having been the case it is plain that a 
large part of formerly existing mollusks can have no representation 
among fossil remains, and that a large proportion of the others must 
have failed of such representation. Still, mollusks as a class are so 
generally provided with a complete shelly protection for their bodies 
that these objects are among the most abundant and valuable fossil 
remains of which the geologist makes use in his investigations. Their 
value is enhanced above that of the remains of any other class as a 
whole by the fact that so large proportion of them were denizens of 
the waters in which were deposited the sedimentary formations which 
are now characterized by them. 

Annuloida. — The existence in former geological time of others of the 
Annuloida than those which constitute the class Echinodermata has 
never been satisfactorily proved by the discovery of their fossil remains, 
but there seems to be no reason for doubt that some such animals really 
existed during at least a portion of that time. If such were the case 
their failure to be represented by fossil remains was doubtless due to 
the absence or imperfection of hard or fossilizable portions of their 
bodies. On the contrary, only a few of all the living Echinodermata are 
destitute of protective hard parts, which generally consist of a nearly 
or quite complete calcareous spinous test that under favorable condi- 
tions preserves the form of the animal after death. Most of them are pro- 
vided with certain small internal hard parts, but no true skeletal frame. 

The abundance of discovered fossil remains of Echinodermata show 
that the plan of their anatomical structure was essentially the same as 
that of their living representatives. The living Echinodermata are 
dwellers in marine waters, and it is presumable that the class has 
always been confined to a marine habitat. In former geological ages 
their representatives were abundant and varied, as is shown by their 
often abundant calcareous remains which are found in many formations, 
where they readily became intombed when those formations were in the 
condition of sediments in the waters in which those Echinodermata 
lived. 

Annulosa. — Of the five classes constituting the Annulosa remains of 
the Crustacea are more likely than those of the others to be preserved 
by sedimentary intombment, because all the members of this class are 
provided with a more or less firm chitinous or calcareous covering for 
their bodies, and because with few and comparatively inconspicuous 
exceptions they are all of aqueous respiration and aquatic habitat. 
Being of aquatic habitat the Crustacea of former geological periods are 
H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 17 



258 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

likely to have become quite completely represented by fossil remains, 
because their crust aceous coverings would have found ready intomb- 
ment in the sediments of the waters in which they lived. It is never- 
theless true that while crustacean remains arc by no means rare in 
paleozoic strata, in mesozoic and later formations remains of this class 
have rarely or never been found abundant, and often they do not appear 
among fossil faunas, the members of which would seem to have been 
their natural associates. This is all the more noteworthy because of 
the frequent molting of the mature shell by these animals, each indi- 
vidual of which would thus produce many fossilizable counterparts of 
itself. 

The Myriapoda, Arachnida, and lusecta are so generally dwellers 
upon the land, that, as a rule, their remains can reach sedimentary 
iutombment only by such accidental means as have been mentioned in 
preceding paragraphs when referring to other land animals. The pres- 
ervation of such remains of these Annulosa, however, as may undergo 
sedimentary intombmeut is favored by the fact that they are generally 
provided with a covering of chitine, a substance which resists decom- 
position more effectually than do most other hard parts of animals, not 
excepting bones, teeth, and calcareous shells. 

These three classes, especially the Insecta, arc now represented by 
myriads of mostly minute animals presenting the greatest diversity of 
form and of habits of life. It cannot be doubted that at least the 
Insecta were abundantly represented among the faunas of former geo- 
logical periods, although fossil remains of them are comparatively rare. 
This rarity is doubtless due to the fact already indicated that their 
remains could have reached sedimentary intombmeut only by acciden- 
tal means, and also in part to the fragile character of the chitinous cov- 
ering of a large proportion of them. In short, it seems necessary to 
conclude that comparatively little can ever be known concerning the 
probably great abundance of Insect, Arachnid, and Myriapodal life of 
former geological time. 

Only the aquatic Annelida need be considered in this connection, 
because no satisfactory remains of extinct representatives of the others 
are likely to be found among any of the fossil faunas. * Even the aquatic 
Annelida are of less importance as regards the subject of this essay 
than arc most of the other classes of animals, because, with the ex- 
ception of the Tubieola, few of them possess such hard parts as 
instructively represent their different forms after the death of the ani- 
mal. It is true that some of these arc provided with a more or less 
delicate chitinous covering which sometimes approximately preserves 
the form of the animal after the decomposition of the soft parts, and 
some of them also possess minute teeth. Traces of forms similar to 
these are sometimes discovered in stratified rocks, as are also such 
minute teeth as compare with those of some living annelids. 

The living Tubieola, however, secrete an external shell, usually cab 



RELATION' OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 259 

careous and much like that of the Gasteropoda, and such shells as these 
in considerable variety are found among fossil faunas. Many aquatic 
annelids burrow in the mud or sand at the bottom of the water in which 
they live, and similar burrows arc not unfrequently found in sediment- 
ary strata, which were doubtless made by extinct annelid species. 

Gcelenterata. — The Ccelenterata consist of somewhat numerous orders 
and families, all of which are aquatic animals and all except a few in- 
conspicuous forms are denizens of saline waters. Therefore if all the 
living - members of this branch of the animal kingdom were possessed 
of such hard parts as would resist decomposition after death, we would 
be justified not only in inferring that the bodies of their extinct repre- 
sentatives were similar in structure, but in assuming that all of them 
have been more or less completely represented by fossil remains. .V 
large part of the living Ccelenterata, however, are entirely destitute of 
even the most delicate hard parts, while others secrete a more or less 
massive calcareous or corneous skeleton, or sometimes an external 
tube, such as the well-known corals, sea fans, etc. It is therefore 
necessary to infer that while a very large proportion of the Ccelen- 
terata which have existed during past geological time secreted coral- 
line skeletons and tubes in infinite variety, another large proportion 
have left no material proof of their existence. It is true that casts 
and impressions in fine sedimentary strata of certain extinct forms of 
jelly fishes have been discovered;* but this is a rare and remarkable 
exception to the rule just referred to, the purport of which is that none 
of the extinct animals whose bodies consisted only of soft parts could 
have left any satisfactory evidence of their existence. Fossil corals 
are often so well preserved that they may be as completely studied as 
the now living forms, but still much of the structure of the extinct 
polyps must forever remain unknown. 

Protozoa. — All the Protozoa to which reference need be made in this 
connection are of aquatic habitat, most of them living in marine waters. 
These are the Foraminifera, Radiolaria, and Spongida, and only these 
secrete such hard parts as resist decomposition. Their hard parts 
are sometimes in the form of minute complex calcareous or siliceous 
shells, sometimes of calcareous or siliceous masses, and they sometimes 
consist of the well-known substance which constitutes sponges. 

Much of protozoan life has no known connection with such hard parts 
ashavejust been mentioned, and it is presumable that the proportion of 
protozoan forms which secrete no hard parts was similar in past geolog- 
ical epochs to that which now obtains. If so, there must have been an 
abundant representation of such life in the past of which no trace has 
been left. 

Plants. — The natural method by which plants or portions of them 
maybe preserved from decay, and the conditions that during the geo- 



* Sec remarks on eon<l.it ions of* lossili/ation at the end of this ess;iy, 



2(10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

ogical epochs have been necessary to their fossilization, have already 

been referred to, but it is desirable to consider to what extent remains 
of extinct floras may have been so preserved and fossilized. 

The true aquatic plants or algae, except those belonging to the family 
Corallinacese, are usually so succulent that they decompose almost as 
quickly as do the soft parts of animals, and they are therefore repre- 
sented in sediments only as easts or impressions. Although the diatoms 
are represented by abundant remains in both marine and nonmarine 
waters, comparatively little use has been made of them in the systematic 
study of fossil remains. 

With few and comparatively unimportant exceptions it is only such 
plants as grow upon marshes which are subject to periodical overflow 
and sedimentary accretion, and such portions of others as may be cast 
into adjacent waters by the winds or carried into them by river freshets, 
that are likely to undergo such sedimentary intombment as would 
insure their preservation in a condition for satisfactory study. No up- 
land plants, except portions of those which grow in the neighborhood 
of bodies of water, are likely to become so intombed, and herbaceous 
plants, most of which wither and remain attached to their roots, as 
well as the foliage of evergreen trees, are also not likely to be cast into 
the water together with autumn leaves of deciduous trees. Again, the 
fruits of deciduous trees, being usually more compact than their leaves, 
are not likely to be transported by winds to a sedimentary burial. 

It is therefore apparent that the representation by fossil remains of 
every formerly existing flora is necessarily very incomplete, not only 
because of the accidental character of even the most favorable condi- 
tions for their preservation, but because a large, and apparently the 
larger, part of every flora existed under conditions which rendered the 
preservation of any portions of it impossible. Furthermore, the process 
of intombment, as well as of being detached and conveyed to it, neces- 
sarily reduced every plant so preserved to a fragmentary condition, 
and breaking up the rocks in winch they are now found they are una- 
voidably still further injured and often destroyed by even the most 
careful collector. 

The incompleteness of representation of extinct animals and plants 
by fossil remains when they are considered with reference to the entire 
bodies of living animals and plants has already been referred to. It 
has also been shown that a large proportion of the animals which lived 
in the various geological epochs could have left no recognizable trace 
of their existence because of the perishable nature of all parts of their 
bodies. From these and other facts which have been stated the conclu- 
sion is necessary that a very large proportion of those extinct animals 
and plants which possessed fossilizable parts have never been repre- 
sented by fossil remains, because those parts, not having fallen under 
conditions favorable to their preservation, have been as completely 
decomposed and destroyed as have the soft parts of the same bodies. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 261 

Besides the facts already indicated fclie following liave special signifi- 
cance in this connection. All fossil remains are more or less imperfect 
as such because of the destructive natural conditions f<> which they 
inevitably have been subjected, and the firm consolidation of most of 
the rocks containing them lias rendered impossible the recovery of the 
greater part of those which have really been preserved. Tin 1 successive 
displacements which have taken place in the crust of the earth have so 
exposed the sedimentary formations to erosion that during the succes- 
sive epochs large portions of all of them have been destroyed, together 
with their fossil contents, thus reducing the paleontological record to 
that extent. Other large portions of those formations have been so 
completely covered by succeeding deposits, by debris resulting from 
their erosion, and by the waters of present lakes and seas that they are 
inaccessible for study, and the avadable paleontological record has been 
thereby still further reduced. 

An additional reduction has doubtless been accomplished by meta- 
morphism — that is, in view of many important facts, both physical and 
biological, it is not unreasonable to conclude that the various series of 
pre-Canibrian stratified formations which are found in different parts of 
the world were once fossiliferous, and that the fossils they then con- 
tained have been destroyed as such by the metamorphic action which 
changed the mineral character of the strata. 

If fossils were to be treated only as mere tokens of the respective 
formations in which they are found, their biological classification would 
be a matter of little consequence, but their broad significance in his- 
torical geology as well as in systematic biology renders it necessary that 
they should be classified as nearly as possible in the same manner that 
living animals and plants are classified. Considering the imperfection 
of all fossil remains, the question arises, Can they be classified upon the 
same general plans and by the same systematic methods that are used 
for living animals and plants? The answer is mainly in the affirmative, 
because structural characteristics are possessed by the fossilizable parts 
of animals and plants which are cognate, coincident, and of a similar 
classificatory character with those of the unfossilizable parts, although 
the latter, being more complete and convenient, are mainly relied upon 
in the classification of living forms. 

As regards the classification of animal fossil remains, precisely the 
same system is available that is used for living animals, the former 
classification being in fact, only an extension of the latter. In the 
former case, however, the methods and details depend more fully than 
in the latter upon the well established principles of comparative anat- 
omy, because the direct and complete anatomical study of fossil animals 
is for obvious reasons impracticable. Indeed, it is upon comparative 
anatomy that most of the real scientific value of fossils depends, and 
without its aid they would always remain little more than mere curios 



262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

ities or arbitrary tokens of the formations, in which they are found. 
With the aid of comparative anatomy and systematic taxonomy these 
fossils, notwithstanding their imperfection and faunal incompleteness, 
become not only indispensable in geological investigations, but real rep- 
resentatives of the grand succession of animal life that lias existed upon 
the earth. 

Jn the ease of fossil Vertebrata it is the skeleton and teeth almost 
alone that are used in classification, but so distinctly were the classifi- 
catory characteristics of those animals impressed upon the hard parts 
of their bodies that the nearly or quite complete structure of the whole 
animal may legitimately be inferred from them. Furthermore, these 
characteristics are so distinctly impressed upon the teeth and upon cer- 
tain essential parts of the skeleton that legitimate classification of 
extinct forms can often be established upon no more than a few scat- 
tered teeth or fragmentary portions of the skeleton. 

The extinct Mollnsca, as has already been shown, are represented by 
their fossil shells, and these are classified precisely as are the shells of 
living members of that class.* Moreover, the classification of the fossil 
molluscan forms accords more completely with that of the living than is 
the case with the Vertebrata because living mollusks are largely classi- 
fied by their shells alone, even when the soft parts of the animal are 

available. 

As in the case of the Mollnsca the fossil Echinodermata are classified 
in the same manner and by the same means as are the living forms, 
because the classification of the latter is based mainly upon those which 
in the extinct forms become fossilized. 

The method of classification of all the fossil Annulosa is essentially 
the same as that which is used for the living forms, the difference, if 
any, being mainly due to the usual incompleteness of the fossil speci- 
mens. In such cases, as well as in those of the greater part of other 
fossil remains, more attention is given to certain characteristics of the 
hard parts than is found necessary when the whole animal is available 
for study. 

While the classification of those living Cflelenterata which have no 
hard parts is necessarily based wholly upon the structure of their soft 
bodies, that of those living forms which possess skeletal or protective 
parts is largely based upon them. In this latter respect the extinct 
Ccelenterata are classified in the same manner as are their living rep- 
resentatives, namely, by means of their coralline hard parts. 

Because the soft bodies of the living Protozoa are so nearly struc- 
tureless that they can not furnish a satisfactory basis for classification 
it is necessarily based upon the structure and character of the hard 
parts in the case of those Avhich secrete them. Therefore the classifica 

* The elaborate classification of the fossil cephalopoda by means of their septal 
flexures may be taken as an exception to this statement. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY to GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION 26*3 

tion of tbe fossil Protozoa has precisely tbe same basis as lias that of 
the living forms. 

The classification of fossil plants is, in a general way, similar to that 
of living plants, and so far as the recognition of the great classes and 
subclasses is concerned it is the same — thai is, each of these higher 
divisions of the vegetable kingdom is recognizable among fossil-plant 
remains by its peculiar histological structure and the characteristic 
plan of its foliage venation ; but the method of discrimination of species 
and genera of fossil plants is wholly different from that which is em- 
ployed in the study of living plants, the latter method being impractica- 
ble because of the imperfection of the fossil material. In the case of 
living plants the detailed structure of the flower and fruit together 
with the general structure of the whole plant forms the basis of classi- 
fication. In the case of fossil plants, however, classification is based 
almost wholly upon foliage, the main reliance for the discrimination of 
species being upon the venation of leaves the imprints of which are 
found upon the riven surfaces of stratified rocks, while their form or 
marginal outline is the principal reliance for the discrimination of 
genera. Other data are sometimes used for classification, such as the 
general form of the plant so far as it may be determinable, the micro- 
scopic woody structure, etc.; but these are rarely available and are 
generally less satisfactory than arc those which are furnished by foliage. 

In presenting the foregoing statements concerning the character of 
fossil remains I have taken occasion to indicate their high biological 
value not only when considered as fossils, but even in comparison with 
living forms as a standard, especially when studies and comparisons of 
them are made with reference to the principles of comparative anatomy; 
and I have also asserted their paramount value in geological investiga- 
tions. Still, I have not hesitated to call attention to their imperfection 
and their faunal and floral incompleteness — that is, I have thought it 
necessary to indicate how incompletely any of the faunas and floras 
which have formerly existed upon the earth are, or can be, represented 
by them, and also how imperfect, even as fossils, are a majority of the 
specimens which reach the geologist's hands. My object in doing this 
is to show that the boundaries of possible knowledge with reference to 
the life which has formerly existed upon the earth lie within the limit 
which some authors have seemed disposed to assign to it, and in the 
same connection I have called attention to certain other facts wheh in- 
dicate that at least portions of the knowledge which is legitimately at- 
tainable may be overestimated or misapplied. 

This treatment of the subject would be unfair if it were not accom- 
panied by statements of facts and principles showing the paramount 
importance of fossil remains in the prosecution of geological investi- 
gation. Such a showing will be made in the Following essays, and in the 
same connection the true value and teaching of fossils will also be dis- 
cussed. 



'2fi4 REPORT <>K NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The following explauatiou of the different conditions in which fossil 
remains arc found will supplement the preceding discussions and add 
to the description of their character which has already been given. 

There are seven different natural conditions in which fossil remains 
are recognizable, three of which relate to substance, three to form, and 
one to both. To those relating to substance 1 have applied the terms 
permineralization, histometabasis, and carbonization: to those relating 
to form, the terms molds, imprints, and casts; and to the one relating 
to both form and substance, the term pseudomorphism. 

The term permineralization applies to that condition of fossil remains 
of animals which <liffers least from their original condition as parts of 
living animals, such, for example, as bones of vertebrates, shells of 
mollusks, tests of crustaceans, etc. It is in this condition that the 
greater part of all fossil remains are found. In their original condition 
they were all composed of both mineral and animal matter. Mineral 
matter greatly preponderated in allot them, but the proportions differed 
much in the case of different branches of the animal kingdom. For 
example, the proportion of animal matter is much greater in bones, 
even in their most solid portions, than in shells of mollusks or tests of 
most crustaceans. In all cases, however, the proportion of mineral mat- 
terwas sufficient to perfectly preserve the original form of each specimen 
during the process of fossilization. Their only material change in this 
process was the removal by decomposition of the animal matter and 
its replacement by mineral matter, the latter having been added as a 
precipitate from its solution in the waters in which the fossilization 
took place. This having been continued until all the minute inter- 
stices originally occupied by the animal matter were filled, the fossils 
became wholly mineralized and as indestructible as are other minerals 
of like composition. Indestructibility of these fully mineralized fos- 
sils, however, is not in all cases absolute, as will appear by remarks in 
following paragraphs. 

The term histometabasis* is applied to that condition of fossilization 
in which an entire exchange of the original substance for another has 
occurred in such a maimer as to retain or reproduce the minute and 
even the microscopic texture of the original. It is especially applicable 
to silicified wood. In such cases of fossilization the exchange has 
been made by destructive decomposition, molecule by molecule, of the 
woody tissues and their immediate replacement by precipitated mole- 
cules of the silex held in solution in the water in which the wood was 
immersed. By this remarkable process not only the original cell struc- 
ture of various kinds of wood but the characteristic cell markings of 
each kind are often found to have been so perfectly preserved in the 
solid agate-like mass that it may be as completely studied as if the 
specimens were taken from living trees. 



Etym. : cafb'c, tissue; /mraf-idmr, exchange. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 265 

Pseudomorphism <>!' fossils is so nearly like thai of mineral crystals 
that this term is equally applicable to both. It consists in the replace- 
ment of the original substance of the fossil by a crystallizable or crys- 
tallized mineral, such, for example, as calcite, pyrite, quartz in the form 
of chalcedony, etc., the original form of the fossil being perfectly retained. 
It is evident that at least a part of the crystallized pseudomorphs 
were formed by the precipitation of the component mineral from its 
solution within such cavities as are described as molds in another 
paragraph. In such cases they differ from casts as described on the 
next page only in being crystallized, but crystallization is one of the dis- 
tinguishing characteristics of pseudomorphs. In many cases pseu- 
domorphs were evidently formed by molecular replacement. All those 
chalcedonic pseudomorphs of shells which sometimes occur in lime- 
stone, and from which they often may be freed in a complete condition 
by acids, have doubtless been produced by molecular replacement. 

The term carbonization is applied in this connection only or mainly 
to such masses of vegetal remains as coal, lignite, and peat. While 
such remains are of great economic value and often of great importance 
in structural geology, they are of little paleontological importance, be- 
cause the organic structure of the plants from which they were de- 
rived has been so completely obliterated as to render them useless for 
such a purpose. Occasionally, however, fruits and other separate 
parts of plants are found to have acquired a carbonized condition in 
which their botanical character may be approximately determined. 

Molds are cavities in sedimentary rocks which were originally occu- 
pied by fossils, the latter having been subsequently removed by the 
percolation of water containing a solvent of the fossils but not of the 
rock. Such solvents, while completely removing certain kinds of fos- 
sils sometimes left others unaffected, and sometimes they acted un- 
equally upon fossils of essentially the same chemical composition. For 
example, the shells of the Ostreidae almost always have resisted such 
solvents more than have most other shells. The original surface features 
and markings of fossils are often minutely preserved in molds, but 
they are frequently obscured in different ways; for example, by com- 
pression of the mold after it was formed, or by its having received a 
drusy lining. 

Imprints do not differ materially in character from molds, the former 
term being usually applied to impressions left in the rock by thin sub- 
stances like leaves of plants, wings of insects, etc., after their removal 
by decomposition. Sometimes, however, the molds of shells and other 
fossils have been reduced to the character of imprints by the extreme 
pressure to which the strata containing them have been subjected. The 
details of imprints have often been obscured by pressure, as in the case 
of molds, but they are often preserved with the greatest degree of 
minuteness. 



266 ■ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Casts are counterparts of fossils, haviug been produced by the tilling 
of molds with a substance other than that of the original fossil. It 
may have been by the injection, caused by pressure or otherwise, of 
substance derived from the matrix or inclosing - rock, or by the precipi- 
tation of substances brought into the cavity suspended in percolating 
water. If in the latter case the cast is composed of a crystallized 
mineral, the term pseudoinorph is applied to it, as already stated. 
Natural stony casts of the interior of shells and other fossils are often 
found within the molds which were formed by the solution and re- 
moval of the fossil itself, and they are also often found filling permineral- 
ized shells. The student of fossils often finds it desirable to take ar- 
tificial casts of natural molds, especially in case he can obtain no other 
representation of the species he desires to study. By such a cast the 
original form and surface features are often reproduced with the great- 
est accuracy. 

In the foregoing paragraphs are described the principal conditions 
in which fossils occur or by which they are represented, but one occa- 
sionally finds specimens which indicate certain conditions that are not 
fully recognized in the foregoing descriptions. 

These cases, however, are less important than are those which have 
been considered, and they need not be further mentioned, but it is 
desirable to refer to certain conditions under which the soft parts of 
animals have sometimes been represented by impressions in sedimentary 
rocks, or under which they have been preserved from ordinary decay 
for an unusual length of time. 

The fact was referred to on page 252, that although the soft parts of 
animals could never have become really fossilized, cases have occurred 
of the preservation in fine sediments of their form and even parts of 
their structure, in the condition of imprints or casts. A most remark- 
able and exceptional case of this kind is that of the jelly-fishes of the 
Jurassic slates of vSolenhofen, where, in the fine sediments of which the 
slates were originally composed, not only their shape but the essential 
parts of their structure are preserved. Impressions, presumably of 
similar animals, have been found in older rocks, but these are less per- 
fect than the Solenhofen specimens. 

Fossilization or petrefaction of human bodies is often popularly re- 
ported to have occurred, but these are only cases of the change of the 
adipose and muscular tissues of the body to the wax-like substance 
adipocere, which process only delays but does not prevent final and 
complete decomposition. This chauge frequently occurs in other ani- 
mal bodies that have become buried in wet or constantly damp earth, 
and packages of pork recovered from old river wrecks have often been 
found to have undergone the same change. 

Every specimen of fossilized man is really only a skeleton, but the 
wonderful cases of preservation of the human form in the partially 
hardened volcanic ash of Pompeii are worthy of mention in this con 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 267 

iiection as illustrating more than one of the facts thai have been stated 
in the foregoing paragraphs. While excavating the buried eity the 
workmen came upon molds of the bodies of persons who were suffo- 
cated by, and buried beneath, the shower of ashes from Vesuvius. 
The body, even including the bones, long ago decomposed and was 
removed by the percolation of water which fell from the clouds. Casts 
of these molds, when discovered, were made by pouring them full of 
plaster, and when the comparatively soft inclosing matrix was removed 
au exact counterpart of the body was disclosed just as it fell in death 
well nigh two thousand years ago. 



268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



II. SEDIMENTARY FORMATIONS, THEIR CHARACTER AND LIMITATION. 

It is apparent from statements made in the preceding essay that, as 
a rule, to which there are no geologically important exceptions, fossils 
have been preserved only in those accumulations of aqueous sediments 
which are now known as the sedimentary or stratified rocks of the 
earth, and that it is therefore these rocks only which furnish biological 
data for geological investigation. Furthermore, it is upon the general 
classification of these rocks, based upon both their physical and bio- 
logical characteristics, that the whole system of historical geology 
depends, and it is their fossil contents that furnish the most efficient 
aid in the study of structural geology. The following essay w ill be 
devoted to discussions of these subjects, and it is therefore desirable 
first to present some remarks upon the stratified rocks with reference 
to the origin ami limitation of the formations into which they are natu- 
rally divided. These remarks will necessarily include both the physi- 
cal and paleontological definition of formations, and a reference to 
their use as units of stratigraphic classification. 

There has been much difference of custom among geologists as re- 
gards the use of the term formation, some applying it to the smallest 
assemblages of strata which possess common characteristics, while 
others designate by the same term those series of formations to which 
the term system has been generally applied. That is, some apply 
the term formation to local or limited developments of strata, while 
others apply it to such systems as the Devonian, Carboniferous, Cre- 
taceous, etc. This term has generally been confined to the stratified 
rocks, but by a few authors it has been applied to the eruptive, and 
also to the great crystalline rock masses. In these essays, however, 
the use of the term formation is not only confined to the stratified rocks, 
but it is restricted to those assemblages of strata which have common 
distinguishing characteristics, whether they have little or great geo- 
graphical extent, or whether they aggregate a few feet or thousands of 
feet in thickness. That is, the use of the term is herein confined to 
those assemblages of stratified rocks of sedimentary origin* to which 
many authors have applied the term group, and others the term ter- 
rains 

A formation of this kind consists of an assemblage of strata which 
bears evidence of having been deposited by continuous sedimentation 
in a broad body of water, the sediments in different formations and 



* To avoid frequent repetition, the terms sedimeutary formation and stratified for- 
mation are used interchangeably when applied to formations as defined in this essay. 
The terms sedimentary rocks, stratified rocks, and fossiliferous rocks are also used 
interchangeably, but with a somewhat more general meaning than is intended by 
tin- two former terms. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 269 

sometimes in different parts of the same formation having varied in 
condition from that of impalpable fineness to that of sand and gravel. 
They are composed of calcareous, argillaceous, or siliceous materials 
which in process of time have become more or less completely hardened 
into rock and which in their separate condition are limestones, sand- 
stones, and shales, respectively. These materials may, and often do, 
occur thus separately, not only in different formations, but in different 
parts of the same formation. Besides this, the different materials are 
often mechanically commingled, producing rocks of a mixed character; 
and sometimes the character of all kinds of stratified rocks is found to 
have been materially changed by metamorphism. 

Formations differ greatly in thickness because the rate of accumu- 
lation of sediments was necessarily very variable and because their 
upper and lower limitation was coincident with, and due to, accidental 
changes of physical conditions which occurred at irregular intervals of 
time. That is, their limitation was caused by such movements of the 
earth's crust, including both land and sea bottom, as produced a more 
or less complete interruption of sedimentation, or change in the char- 
acter of the same, and consequently a more or less complete extinction, 
or geographical transference, of the life that existed in the water in 
which the sediments were deposited. This is an almost invariable rule, 
but in rare cases the faunal and physical delimitations were not fully 
coincident. In such cases an abrupt faunal change has occurred within 
the vertical range, or at the upper limit, of a formation where sedimen- 
tation seems to have been unbroken between it and the next succeed- 
ing one. Such cases plainly resulted from a change in the character of 
the water as a faunal habitat, which was uot accompanied by a corre- 
sponding arrest of, or even by a material change in, the character of 
the sedimentation.* 

Formations may sometimes be continuously traced by the eye for 
considerable distances, especially if the debris of erosion has been well 
removed by denudation. In such cases no question can be raised as to 
their identity. Sometimes also a formation may be satisfactorily rec- 
ognized at separate but not distant localities by means of its litholog- 
ical characteristics alone when actual continuity is obscured or hidden 
from view by succeeding formations or other overlying material. In 
their greater geographical extension, however, formations undergo such 
changes of lithological character, and they often so closely simulate 
some one or more associated formations, that their lithological identifi- 
cation is uncertain or impracticable. Therefore, with the minor excep- 
tions mentioned, the only known meaus by which a formation may be 
certainly identified at any other than its originally discovered locality 
is that which is afforded by its contained fossil remains. 



"•Reference is here made particularly to conditions that arc observable among the 
Upper Cretaceous formations of the interior portion of North America. 



270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Because of the frequent displacements of portions of the eartli crust 
which have occurred during geological time, and also because of the 
resulting great erosion of the materials of which formations are com- 
posed, none of them now exists in its original entirety, but it is desirable 
to consider them with reference to their origin as well as to their pres- 
ent condition, the better to understand their character. 

Every formation originally consisted of sediments, which, within a 
portion of geological time of limited but uncertain duration, were de- 
posited in any broad body of water, whether inland or marine, during 
all of which time both the body of water and the surrounding or ad- 
jacent land remained comparatively unaffected by displacements of the 
earth's crust or by any other adverse physical changes. Under favor- 
able conditions every such body of water was the congenial habitat of 
aquatic animals, remains of which became fossilized in the constantly 
accumulating sediments. These animals constituted more or less dis- 
tinct faunas, the geographical range of each of which was, in the case 
of inland waters, throughout the whole area occupied by each, and in 
the case of oceanic waters, throughout each of such large portions as 
were circumscribed by natural intramarine limits to fauna! distribu- 
tion, these limits having been in a general way barriers between 
faunal areas, although they were never sharply defined and were 
usually indefinite. 

Within these more or less indefinite intramarine barriers the various 
forms of aquatic life constituted a separately recognizable fauna, and 
the sedimentary deposits became a separately recognizable formation. 
Still, those barriers are properly designated as indefinite because it is 
evident that the sedimentary deposits of any one of those ancient 
oceanic areas always blended to a greater or less degree with those of 
adjacent areas, and that certain members of every fauna ranged into 
adjacent faunal areas, just as certain species of every living marine 
fauna have a much wider geographical range than have most of their 
associates. 

Much the greater part of the sedimentary formations of the earth 
were deposited in marine waters, as is shown by the character of 
their contained fossils, and most of those waters were then, as now, of 
oceanic extent. The character of the contained fossils of a compara- 
tively small but important part of the sedimentary formations, how- 
ever, show that they were deposited in inland bodies of water, some of 
which were fresh and some brackish. Some of those inland bodies of 
water were comparatively small, but others were of such extent that 
their deposits rival marine formations in that respect. 

Every formation resulting from deposits in iidand waters hav- 
ing had practically the same geographical extent as the body of water 
in which it was deposited, the original boundary of the whole forma- 
tion was coincident with the shore line, but this can not be assumed 
with regard to the formations which were deposited in waters of 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 271 

oceanic extent. These, like existing- marine waters, notwithstanding 
their extensive continental and island shore lines, which became in 
part original limits to formations, had world-wide continuity, but it 
is evident to every geologist that the most extensive of the mari in- 
formations in their separate physical and biological identity have 
rarely exceeded a few hundred miles in extent, and they are often 
much less. The variable physical limits to the areas of sedimentation 
within which were produced the separately recognizable formations 
were coincident with the indefinite intra-marine faunal barriers, just 
mentioned, and all marine formations more or less completely merged 
both their physical and faunal identity into that of those which were de- 
posited in adjacent waters. It is to be inferred that climatic influences, 
or rather those of temperature, had much to do with faunal limitation, 
but temperature was doubtless in large part equalized by the currents 
which conveyed the sediments that produced the formations. 

The geographical definition of marine sedimentary and faunal areas. 
and consequently that of the resulting formations, was mainly or wholly 
due to the various and shifting conditions of land and sea bottom, 
which in different parts of the world and during successive geological 
epochs modified or changed the distribution of sediments within the 
great areas into which the oceanic waters were thus divided, and it was 
generally accomplished without affecting the aqueous continuity 
between them. In a large proportion of cases these shifting conditions 
did not affect the continuity of those waters, and they were sometimes 
so slight as to leave the resulting formation with illy defined upper and 
lower limitations, as well as with their usual indefinite geographical 
boundaries. They were often so great, however, as to elevate and long 
retain the former ocean bottom above the water level, and to thus pro- 
duce a greater or less unconformity of, or a longer or shorter time hiatus 
between formations. • 

While shitting conditions of sea bottom constituted the principal 
factor in limiting areas of sedimentation, they sometimes caused the 
partial overlapping of the borders of contemporary formations by 
having alternately shifted those of adjacent sedimentary areas, thus 
adding to the usual iudefiniteuess of such boundaries. 

The upper and lower limits of formations we e sometimes produced 
by the elevation of sea bottom above water level and its resubmergence, 
in which case those limits were sharply defined. In other cases the 
movements of elevation and depression were too slight to entirely 
interrupt sedimentation, and those or other physical changes were too 
slight to prevent the survival of certain members of the earlier fauna 
as members of the later one. Indeed, it is through such survivals that 
continuity of life has been preserved during the whole range of geo- 
logical time. In such cases the physical difference between the forma- 
tions is usually slight. This, added to the partial commingling of their 
faunas, sometimes renders it difficult to fix upon a dividing line between 



272 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

theui, and makes it especially necessary in determining the character- 
istics of each formation to study their respective faunas each as a whole. 
Still, it is usually the case that the vertical range of a large proportion 
of the species is not found to pass beyond the vertical limits of the for- 
mation in which they occur. 

The beginning and ending of the sedimentation which produced each 
formation having been dependent upon the unstable conditions of the 
earth's crust, the occurrence of the displacements of which were irreg- 
ular in time and variable in extent, formations are necessarily not only 
very unequal as regards their geographical extension, but also as 
regards their relative value in stratigraphical classification. For these, 
among other causes, they are also unequal in their relative importance 
as representing stages in biological development. 

The foregoing remarks apply especially to marine formations, and 
they are of general applicability. The manner, however, in which 
occurred the upper and lower delimitation of the series of fresh water 
formations in the interior region of North America was evidently some- 
what exceptional. These deposits took place in waters which rested above 
ocean level, and their differentiation into formations was evidently 
largely due to the shifting level of the waters in which they were 
respectively laid down, as well as to the shifting of the areas of denu- 
dation from which their sediments were derived. The latter was doubt- 
less also the cause of the differences in lithological charactistics of 
those formations. 

Because both the time and areal limits of marine faunas were always 
indefinite, especially as regards both the time and geographical range 
of certain species, it is plain that it is the fauna as a whole, and not 
separate members of it, that must be regarded as characterizing a 
formation, although a single species is often sufficient for its identifica- 
tion within a limited district or region after its characterization has 
been determined by means of its fauna, aided by its physical features. 

The remains of aquatic faunas only have been considered in connec- 
tion with the foregoing discussions of the origin and limitation of the 
sedimentary formations, because the life history of those faunas only 
was intimately connected with their production. The greater part of 
the fossiliferous formations of the earth contain no other remains than 
those of aquatic faunas, but in many formations remains of members 
of contemporary land faunas and floras are found commingled with 
those of aquatic faunas. The latter were intombed where they origi- 
nated, but the others reached their intombment by the indirect way that 
was described in the preceding essay. It is therefore plain that the 
remains of denizens of the waters in which a given formation was de- 
posited are more characteristic of it than those of contemporaneous land 
animals and plants could be, because the aquatic fauna which they rep- 
resent, whatever may be its value as representing a stage of biological 
development, was dependent for its existence upon the same conditions 
which were necessary to the production Qf tue formation, 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. '273 

It is true that fossil remains of certain species of land animals and 
plants may be, and often are, found only within the limits of a certain 
formation. In that respect they maybe regarded as among its char- 
acteristic fossils, but the time range of a land fauna or flora is likely 
to have fallen short of, or to have exeeeded that of an aquatic fauna 
whose own duration is known to have been at least in part contempo- 
raneous, because the physical conditions which were the principal fac- 
tors in establishing and extinguishing an aquatic fauna would not nec- 
essarily have materially affected the existence of adjacent and contem- 
poraneous land faunas and floras. These questions, however, will be 
more fully referred to in following essays. 

The foregoing remarks concerning the characterization of formations 
have been made with special reference to those which are more or less 
fossiliterous. It sometimes happens, however, that fossils do not exist, 
or are not discovered, in certain formations which are evidently of sed- 
imentary origin. This may have been due in some eases to the uncon- 
geniality as a fauna! habitat of the waters in which the formation was 
deposited, and in others to their failure to receive any fossilizable re- 
mains of animals and plants from the laud. In other cases the absence 
of fossils may have been due to their destruction or obliteration. The 
latter has probably been the case with many metamorphic rocks and 
with the great pre-Cambrian series of stratified rocks generally. In 
all these cases the formations, while they may possess more or less dis- 
tinct physical characteristics, lack the chief characteristics of sedi- 
mentary formations, namely, the biological. 

The occurrence of an uufossiliferous sedimentary formation as a 
member of an otherwise fossiliterous series is unusual, but in such a 
case its definition and limitation would be effectually accomplished 
by the underlying and overlying formations. In the case, however, 
of a great uufossiliferous series of stratified rocks like the pre Cam 
brian it is necessary to adopt a method for their study and classili- 
cation based wholly upon physical data, after the fact that they 
are pre-Cambrian has been determined from biological data. Such a 
method of classifying and characterizing those uufossiliferous stratified 
rocks as they occur in North America has been proposed by Prof. R. 
D. Irving* and afterward elaborated by others. This great series of 
rocks as it is developed on this continent has such distinguishing gen- 
eral characteristics ami such magnitude and geographical extent that 
some geologists have thought it worthy of being assigned to a special 
division of study, but because no certain traces of organic forms have 
been discovered in them they have, so far as it is now known, only the 
indirect relation to biological geology that has just been referred to. 
Still I regard it as not improbable that those strata were once fos- 



* Irving, R. D. : Classification of the Early Cambrian ;m<l pre-Cambrian forma- 
tions. Seven tli Ann. Rep. IT. S. Geol. Survey, pp. 371-399, 

H. Mis. 114. pt. 2 IS 



274 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

siliferous and that the great series was once made up of formations 
similar to those which have been defined on preceding pages, but it 
does not necessarily follow that the divisions which are now recogniz 
able by physical characteristics correspond to those formations. It is 
probable that they more nearly correspond to systems or to the larger 
divisions of systems as they are recognized in the great scale of the 
fossiliferous rocks of the earth. Therefore the discussion of formations 
in this essay does not necessarily apply to the pre-Cambrian stratified 
rocks. 

The following conclusions concerning formations are deducible from 
the facts which are stated in the foregoing paragraphs: 

While they are physical objects and have only a physical existence 
their proper characterization is chiefly biological. 

They are charaoterizable mainly by the fossil remains of aquatic 
faunas. 

Neither their physical nor biological limits are sharply defined except 
as a result of accidental causes. 

Their geographical limitations are indefinite except those which 
were occasioned by shore lines. 

They do not necessarily bear any close relation to one another as to 
geographical area, thickness, or the duration of tiihe in their accumu- 
lation. 

Although they are thus unequal to one another they constitute the 
only available physical units for local or regional stratigraphic classi- 
fication. 

Because of their limited geographical extent they can not be used as 
units of the universal classification of the stratified rocks. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 275 



III.— THE RELATION OF FOSSIL REMAINS TO STRUCTURAL GEOLOGY. 

The character and origin of fossil remains and the character and 
limitation of the sedimentary formations, as well as the manner in 
which the latter originated and became fossiliferons, have been dis- 
cussed in the preceding essays. It is necessary that such discussions 
should have preceded those which are embraced in this and following 
essays, because they contain numerous statements of tact which it 
will be constantly necessary to refer to or to bear in mind in connection 
with the subjects now to be discussed and without which those sub- 
jects couhl not be intelligibly presented. 

There are two methods by which the study of fossils may legitimately 
be applied to geological investigation, the following statement of the 
character of which is in part explanatory of the results that may be 
obtained by their aid. For convenience one of them maybe termed 
empirical and the other philosophical, because in the one case results 
are obtained by experience and in the other by reasoning upon the 
various results thus obtained. Still, discrimination between these two 
methods can not usually be sharply drawn, because while all geological 
investigation is largely empirical it is always more or less philosophical. 
Such a division of the subject, however, besides being a present con- 
venience, gives me an opportunity to emphasize the fact that a large 
proportion of the work that is done in structural geology is based 
mainly upon the empirical observation and collection of biological data. 

Both these methods are not only important but indispensable, the 
one not less so than the other. Both may be, and often are, used 
together, but the empirical method is more largely used in practical 
field studies than in others, because in such studies fossils' are to a 
large extent treated as characteristic tokens of formations or as arbi- 
trary means of identifying them and distinguishing them from one 
another. Such identification necessarily constitutes one of the first 
steps in the practical study of structural geology, but the subsequent 
study of the fossils thus empirically used is necessarily more philo- 
sophical. 

Furthermore, in the prosecution of field studies it is often necessary 
to make special philosophical use of fossils, not only with reference to 
questions which are discussed in following essays, but to some of 
those which relate more particularly to the subject of this. Among 
such questions are those which relate to the conditions of origin of 
formations, the character and quality of the waters in which they were 
deposited, and the various conditions of habitat of the faunas and 
floras whose remains characterize them. 

The philosophical method of treating fossil remains, however, is 
largely applicable to systematic geology or those branches which per- 



276 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

tain to the universal chronological classification of the sedimentary 
formations and to their correlation in different parts of the world. The 
naturalist studies fossil remains as representatives of the long- succes- 
sion of progressively and differentially developed organic forms which 
during geological time have existed and become extinct and of which 
succession the now existing forms of life constitute only the terminal 
portion. It is the results of such studies as these that the geologist 
uses in the philosophical studies referred to. While these questions 
are discussed in following essays this one is devoted more especially 
to questions pertaining to the practical study of geology in the field. 

The idea of using fossils as characteristic tokens of formations by 
means of which they may be distinguished from one another and iden- 
tified in their geographical extension began to prevail with the earliest 
studies of structural geology. Originally they were apparently re- 
garded as of little or no more value in the identification of formations 
than was their lithological composition, to which, indeed, their use 
seems at first to have been merely auxiliary. Although the use of 
fossils soon came to be recognized as indispensable in the characteriza- 
tion and identification of formations, and their investigation came to 
constitute a leading feature in geological research, it was long before 
they began to be studied in a philosophical rather than in an empirical 
manner. 

That increase in their philosophical use did not diminish their value 
in other respects, as is apparent from the fact that a large propor- 
tion of the practical field work of to-day is necessarily based upon the 
empirical use of fossils as tokens of formations. That is, a large propor- 
tion of all the field work in structural geology depends upon the specific 
identification of fossil remains with, necessarily, only incidental refer- 
ence to their systematic biological classification, and with no necessry 
reference to their value in other respects. Therefore the empirical use 
of fossils is even now held to terms as simple as those which were em- 
ployed by the early geologists. Although it is essential that geological 
observations of all kinds should always be made with reference to all 
related physical as well as biological facts which maybe available, it is 
not to be expected or desired that this primitive empirical use of 
fossil remains will ever be either discarded or diminished. 

The foregoing remarks are made in defense of even the simple use of 
fossils just indicated, because it is evident that their value in that re- 
spect, as well as in others, is often underestimated, even by some 
geologists. The full measure of their usefulness, however, even in the 
identification and characterization of formations, can be attained only 
by a thorough investigation of comprehensive collections, prosecuted 
with direct reference to, and a rational interpretation of, the biological 
laws that governed the existence of the respective faunas and floras 
which they represent, and with equally direct reference to the physical 
laws which governed the production of the formations which they 
characterize. 



KELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 277 

It was shown in the preceding essay that although formations as they 
are there denned are not, and cannot be, the units of a universal classi- 
fication of the stratified rocks they arc the true units of local or regional 
classification of those rocks, and their use as such is indispensable 
in field studies of structural geology. Therefore the accurate identifi- 
cation of formations is indispensable, and because of this the means of 
correctly identifying them is of prime importance. It is true, as 
already stated, that formations have really only a physical existence, 
but their biological characteristics become in fact a part of their iden- 
tity, and these characteristics constitute the principal, and in most cases 
the only criteria of identification. The criteria of identification of for- 
mations will be specially discussed in Essay VI, but it is necessary to 
consider them briefly in this connection. 

Of the two ways iu which formations are naturally charaterizable 
one is physical and the other biological. Physical characterization 
may be direct or general, that is, it may be by identity of kind or kinds 
of rock of which the formation is composed or by its possession of 
that more general or indefinite property or condition which indicates 
homogeny. 

The physical or, more specially, thelithological, characteristics of any 
given formation may be so different from those of an underlying or 
overlying one that the contrast may be an efficient aid in its identifi- 
cation, but this is too seldom the case to be generally relied upon, the 
physical difference between them being usually no greater than that 
which may occur between different parts of one and the same forma- 
tion in its geographical extension. Again the physical identification 
of an unfossiliferous formation may sometimes be satisfactorily deter- 
mined from its position with relation to overlying or underlying forma- 
tions whose biological characteristics are known, but such methods 
are usually too indefinite to meet the requirements of practical field 
studies. 

It is true that in certain regions where erosion, corrasion, and denu- 
dation have been especially active, the field geologist may trace forma- 
tions continuously and completely for many miles by means of their 
lithological and other physical characteristics and without the aid of 
fossils, but usually they have become so obscured by the overlapping of 
one upon another, or by being overlain by glacial or other drift or the 
debris resulting from their own erosion, that they are exposed to view 
only at wide intervals, and then incompletely. It is also true, that as 
a result of a long series of observations at such limited exposures of 
formations as those just referred to, one may obtain an approximately 
clear idea of the identity of a formation from the physical evidence 
which it presents of its homogenesis. Although in late years it has 
become the custom of some geologists in seeking to identify formations 
to rely upon these indications to the exclusion of others, a careful con 
sideration of all available relevant facts will make it plain that the 



278 REPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

principal value of these Judications consists in their availability as 
accessories to biological evidence. These physical indications of the 
identity of formations are further discussed in Essay VI. They are 
mentioned here only for the purpose of comparing them with biological 
indications. 

Formations are biologically characterized only by the fossil remains 
of animals and plants which lived while they were in process of depo- 
sition, and the more intimate the natural relation of any of those 
animals and plauts to the physical conditions which produced a forma- 
tion, the more characteristic of it are their remains. This implies that 
while no kind of fossil remains is to be rejected in practical studies of 
structural geology, there is much difference in the value of the different 
kinds for this purpose. These differences in value will be specially 
discussed in following essays. 

In the preceding essay it was shown that there was an intimate 
relation between the geographical boundaries of each aqueous area 
within which the sedimentation took place that resulted in the produc- 
tion of a formation and those of the habitat of the aquatic fauna the 
remains of which are now found to characterize it. Also that each 
aquatic fauna began its existence as such with the beginning of the 
deposition of the formation and ended its faunal existence with the 
completion of that deposition, although, as a rule there was some ge- 
netic connection with both the preceding and succeeding faunas. 
Again it was shown that the conditions which attended the establish- 
ment of those boundaries and controlled the deposition of the sediments 
also constituted each area a congenial habitat for its aquatic fauna and 
that consequently the whole life history of each of those faunas was 
intimately connected with the production of the formation in which its 
remains are found, while contemporary land faunas and floras bore no 
such direct relation to it. Furthermore, reasons were given why it 
may be accepted as a fact that as a necessary consequence of the con- 
ditions of their habitat, every species of every aquatic fauna which 
possessed fossilizable parts, was originally fully represented in the for- 
mation to which the fauna pertained, while all other kinds of fossil re- 
mains have always very imperfectly represented the faunas and floras 
to which they belonged. Besides this, their presence in any formation 
was always the result of accident. 

Although these are sufficient reasons why remains of aquatic faunas 
are always of greater value than any other in the identification of for- 
mations, that fact does not imply that other kinds are not of the high- 
est value for other purposes nor that they are valueless for this purpose. 
For example, although land faunas and floras bore no direct relation 
to the production of a formation, it is evident that the effects of the 
physical changes which respectively inaugurated and closed its depo- 
sition would in each case have been of such a character, and that they 
would have been so extended upon the land, as to cause important 



DELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. "-V.> 

changes in the contemporaneous land fauna and flora; Therefore it is 
to* be assumed that such faunas and floras in their entirety bore an 
important indirect relation to the respective formations with the pro- 
duction of which they were contemporaneous, and that such of their 
remains as found intoinbment in their sediments would be largely 
characteristic of them. 

Still, the incongruity of the biological relation and of the physical 
conditions of existence of land faunas and floras to aquatic faunas* 
and the accidental relation of such of the remains of the former as 
became fossilized to the sediments in which they were intombed render 
it difficult to treat the evidence afforded by fossils of terrestrial origiU 
as concurrent with that which is afforded by aquatic fossil faunas. This 
difficulty is increased by the incompleteness of representation by fossil 
remains of land animals as entire faunas, and that of plants not only as 
entire floras but as individual members of them. 

Furthermore, remains of land animals and plants have never been 
found in any of the fossiliferous formations of the earlier geological ages, 
and in the marine formations of the later ages* they are rarely, and 
usually never, found.t Therefore their study, except in cases of doubt- 
ful value, is confined to the nonmarine formations of the carboniferous 
and later ages. The restricted range of such studies as compared with 
that of the study of other fossils is the more apparent when it is remem- 
bered how small is the proportion of non marine to marine formations. 
These remarks are by no means to be understood as suggesting the 
rejection of any kind of evidence in any case or as calling in question 
the general paleontological, and the purely biological, value of fossil 
remains of terrestrial origin. It is only claimed that their value in the 
characterization, identification, and limitation of formations is below 
that of remains of aquatic faunas. 

It was also mentioned in the preceding essay that the biological 
characterization of any formation is fully recognizable only by means 
of its fossil fauna or flora, each as a whole, and not by separate mem- 
bers of either, although separate members, especially of an aquatic 
fauna, because of their limited vertical range, are often sufficient for 
its identification after its characterization has been fully established. 
This fact is of importance in every estimate of the true value of fossil 
remains in practical geology, because, notwithstanding their paramount 
value as evidence in the cases referred to, no evidence in such cases is 
ever so complete as to be beyond the need of accessory support. 

The foregoing remarks apply to that direct practical use of fossils 
which is necessary from the beginning to the close of every investiga- 
tion of structural geology. The following apply to their more indirect 
use in reaching conclusions of a general character, but which are also 

* See table on Plate xiv, showing time ranges of animals and plants. 

t Diatomaceons remains are not considered in connection with this statement. 



280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

of practical importance in all such investigations. Besides other appli- 
cations that may be made of the facts mentioned in those remarks, they 
show the necessity for the study of the different kinds of aquatic faunas 
with relation to one another, and make it evident that so great a differ- 
ence in their kinds and in the conditions of their origin implies a wide 
range of practical applicability to geological studies. 

Comparative studies of this kind are prosecuted mainly by the philo- 
sophical method and require a consideration of various biological and 
physical facts. Among them are those which relate to the various gen- 
eral conditions under which sedimentary formations were produced and 
the more special conditions under which the aquatic faunas lived whose 
remains now characterize them. The general conditions referred to 
are largely of a geographical character, while the more special relate 
to the quality of the water in which the respective faunas lived as the 
element of their habitation. 

The fact that the fossil remains of aquatic animals generally possess 
inherent and unmistakable evidence as to the character and quality of 
the respective bodies of water in which were deposited the sedimentary 
rocks which are now found to contain them was recognized at an early 
date, and the character of that evidence is such that there never has 
been any important disagreement among geologists as to its trust- 
worthiness.* Indeed they usually ami properly assume that there is as 
little room for reasonable doubt as to the quality of the water in which 
each fossil aquatic fauna lived as would be the case if those waters 
were still subject to a gustatory test or to chemical analysis. t Admis- 
sible evidence as to the quality of the water relates only or mainly to the 
presence and comparative proportion of salt in, or to its absence from, 
the various bodies of water which have existed during geological time, 
ami in which sedimentary deposits were made. In other words, it is 
the kind of evidence that indicates whether those waters were fresh, 
brackish, or of marine saltness. Such evidence indicates whether the 
water in which a given formation was deposited was marine, estuarinej 
lacustrine, or tluviatile, and all this evidence, although relating to 
physical questions, rests upon comparisons of fossil remains of aquatic 
faunas with corresponding parts of members of now living faunas whose 
structural characteristics and restrictions of habitat are known. The 
marine so greatly preponderate over all other kinds of aquatic faunas 
that it is convenient in discussing the sedimentary formations to make 
the general distinction of marine and nonmarine, the former term not 



'The criteria of the character of formerly existing bodies of water are discussed 
in Essay vn, hut they are briefly referred to here in discussing tin- subject of this 
essay. 

tit is probable that the earliest oceanic waters were much less salt than are those 
of the present day because the earth has ever since been subjected to a process <>f 
leaching, with the oceans as a reservoir, but the comparisons here made apply 
mainly to comparatively late portions of geological time. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 28] 

needing definition, the latter being applied to all faunas that are re 
garded as having lived in either brackish or fresh waters. 

In making practical application of the evidence which has been re- 
ferred to, it is the general conditions which are indicated by the special 
that will most need to, be considered. For example, the marine char 
acter of a fauna having been ascertained, the conclusion is legitimate, 
in the absence of conflicting evidence, that the area which constituted 
its habitat was bordered wholly or mainly by other marine areas, and 
that their sediments and faunas blended to a greater or less extent with 
one another. In other words, such a fauna indicates that its habitat 
was part of a great oceanic expanse which was occupied by other 
more or less similar faunas. 

In case a fossil aquatic fauna should present intrinsic evidence of its 
brackish water origin the inference would be legitimate that its habitat 
was either an estuary or an inland sea, and in case the fauna should 
prove to be of fresh water origin we must conclude that the habitat 
Avas either a river or a lake. In all of these nonmarine cases the habitat 
had more definite boundaries than could have been the case with that 
of any marine fauna, and usually, but not necessarily always, a non- 
marine formation has a less geographical extent than have marine for- 
mations. It is true that an estuary fauna blends in part with the 
adjacent marine fauna on the one hand and with the tluviatile fauna on 
the other, but its other limits are shore lines such as alone constitute 
the faunal boundaries of all other nonmarine bodies of water. 

The estuarine, tluviatile, or lacustrine origin of a deposit or formation 
having been ascertained by means of the character of its fossil remains, 
aided by the accompanying physical indications, important inferences 
are to be drawn as to the geographical conditions which prevailed in 
that region at the time of its deposition. For example, the existence 
of an estuary deposit implies that contemporaneously with its deposi- 
tion there was an adjacent body of marine water, and also a large land, 
if not a continental, area which was drained by the inflowing river.* 
Again, every lake or inland sea, the former existence of which may be 
determined by the character of the fossil aquatic fauna which the for- 
mation representing it contains, was necessarily surrounded by a broad 
land area. 

The foregoing remarks apply to methods of distinguishing between 
formations of marine and nonmarine origin, and to the legitimate 
inferences that may be drawn from them, respectively, as to the physical 
conditions which prevailed while they were accumulating. In closing 
this essay it is desirable to present some remarks upon the relative 
value in practical geological field work of the fossils found in marine 
and nonmarine formations, respectively. 

That the fossil remains of marine faunas are far more valuable as in- 

' There are, of course, estuaries at the mouths of those rivers which flow iuto lakes, 
but brackish water estuaries only arc here referred to 



282 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

dicators of the chronological divisions of the geological scale and of the 
correlation of its divisions in different parts of the world than are those 
of nonmarine faunas is apparent to everyone who is familiar With even 
the general facts of biological geology, but it does not follow, and it is 
not true, that the latter are intrinsically less valuable than are the for- 
mer in held studies of practical geology. For this practical work both 
marine and nonmarine fossils are treated by the empirical method 
already explained, and both are found to characterize the respective 
formations in the same manner. 

Certain conditions, however, give each an advantage over the other 
under different circumstances. For example, the geographical range 
of the nonmarine invertebrate fossil faunas, especially those of fresh 
water, having been sharply denned by shore lines, the species which 
constituted them are to that extent more characteristic of the forma- 
tions in which they occur than is the case with marine faunas. Cer- 
tain species of the latter faunas, as already shown, usually ranged 
beyond the limits of the area which was occupied by each fauna as a 
whole. 

Xonmarine formations as a rale occur singly in a series of marine 
formations, in which case the vertical as well as the geographical range 
of their invertebrate species is sharply defined. It is true that in the 
interior portion of North America there is a continuous series of fresh 
water formations and that certain of the species range from one into 
another. These, however, are notable exceptions to the rule referred 
to, and they at most only make such nonmarine faunas equal to the 
average marine fauna as regards exceptional vertical range of species. 
Again, nonmarine formations usually have the advantage of the pres- 
ence of remains of plants and of land vertebrates and invertebrates, 
which in marine formations are usually so extremely rare as to be 
unavailable. 

On the other hand, marine faunas embrace such a wide diversity of 
forms as compared with the nonmarine, and their progressive and dif- 
ferential evolution from epoch to epoch has been so much greater that 
they offer as faunas much more abundant means for the characteriza- 
tion and identification of formations. It is clear, however, that the 
opinion which some geologists have expressed or implied that the fos- 
sil contents of nonmarine formations are of little value in practical 
geological investigation is not well founded. The following are the 
principal conclusions reached in the foregoing discussions : 

Formations being the only true units of local or regional strati- 
graphic classification, their correct identification is the first, and an in- 
dispensable, step in the practical field work of structural geology. 

Although formations as such have only a physical existence, their 
biological characteristics are always the best, and often the only, means 
of their identification, and therefore the exhaustive study of fossils is 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 283 

of paramount importance in connection with all practical investiga- 
tions of that kind. 

The value of fossils in this respect is as purely practical as is that 
of any other aid to geological investigation, and it may be made avail- 
able without reference to their great value in other respects. 

Although all fossil remains are valuable for this practical use, those 
of aquatic faunas are more valuable than any others. 

Remains of nonmarine faunas are of similar value for this purpose 
to those of marine origin. 



2X4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSE I'M, 1892. 



IV. THE RELATION' OF BIOLOGY T< > SYSTEMATIC AND HISTORICAL 

GEOLOGY. 

The preceding essay was devoted to discussions showing the im- 
portance of all fossil remains as well as the interrelative value of the 
different kinds of the same in the prosecution of geological field work. 
A leading object of that essay was to show that fossils constitute 
the most important of the distinguishing characteristics of all sedi- 
mentary formations and also the principal means of their identifica- 
tion as physical units of stratigraphic classification within any district 
or region. This essay is devoted to discussions of the more general 
relation of fossil remains to geological investigation; that is, to general 
discussions of the relation of biology, the science which they, together 
with living animals and plants, represent, to certain of the broader 
subjects of geological study. These subjects embrace systematic ge- 
olgy, or the general classification of the stratified rocks of the earth, 
historical geology, or the establishment of that classification upon a 
chronological basis, and correlative geology, or the adjustment to one 
another of the full chronological series of stratified rocks which occur 
on each continent or large division of the same. The latter subject, 
however, will be more specially discussed in Ess;iy vi. 

It has been made apparent in the preceding essays tliat each case 
of structural classification of stratified rocks based upon formations as 
physical units is independent of all others, and that its application is 
necessarily of limited geographical extent, because formations are them- 
selves thus limited. It therefore follows that the structural geology 
of any district or region, embracing even an extensive series of forma- 
tions, may be practically and thoroughly investigated, as regards both 
scientific accuracy and economic requirements, independently of that 
of any other district or region, especially of those regions which are 
not adjacent. It is now to be shown how the multitude of series of for- 
mations thus locally classified throughout the world have been grouped 
into a universal system of classification in connection with a scale hav- 
ing its divisions arranged in chronological order. 

The grandest and most comprehensive of the ideas which were con 
ceived and developed by the early geologists relates to the construc- 
tion of this scale and the conserpient reduction of geology to a, univer- 
sal system; but it is remarkable that although this idea is now known 
to have an almost exclusively biological basis, its original conception 
was not the result of correct biological knowledge as now understood, 
but of empirical observation of physical and biological facts and a 
sagacious perception of their interrelation. 

It is true that while the early geologists relied mainly upon fossils as 
indicators of the relative age of formations, the belief was at first 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 285 

somewhat general among fchem that the consolidation <>f the sedimen- 
tary rocks, and also in part their displacements, were secularly accom- 
plished and therefore that such conditions are to that extent indicators 
of their relative age; but these views did not long survive. 

When the fossil faunas and floras which characterize each of a given 
series of sedimentary formations are compared with those which sev- 
erally characterize the formations of the next preceding and suc- 
ceeding series, and the whole are systematically compared with living 
faunas and floras, there is to be observed among those fossil forms, when 
studied in connection with an unbroken vertical range of formations, 
an order of successive changes and modifications indicative of a general 
advance in biological rank and also an indication of structural relation- 
ship. Furthermore, when the faunas and floras of a given series of 
formations are compared with those of other series in other parts of the 
world, it frequently appears that there is a close similarity between 
those of a certain portion of each series which indicates their correla- 
tion. In such cases an order of biological rank is to be observed sim- 
ilar to that which was observed in the original case. It also frequently 
occurs that the range of rank is found to be greater in one or both direc- 
tions than is to be observed in other cases. By such means a knowl- 
edge of the order of faunal and floral, as well as of stratigraphical, suc- 
cession far beyond that which could be obtained in anyone region, has 
been acquired. 

It is upon such empirical facts as these that the early geologists 
based their investigations concerning the chronological arrangement 
of the sedimentary formations of the earth, the grand result of which 
was the adoption of a general scheme and the construction of a corre- 
sponding scale for their classification. This scale, which in its present 
condition is a masterpiece of inductive reasoning, necessarily originated 
in Europe, because it was there that geology was first systematically 
studied, and it is there also that its adaptation is more complete than 
elsewhere. The first of the two following tables, the one to which, for 
the sake of convenience, the date 1840 is given, represents the scale in 
a condensed form as it was recognized and approved by leading geolo- 
gists at, and a few years both prior and subsequent to, the date men 
tioned. 1 

The second table, the one bearing the date 1890, has been compiled 



ft is not my purpose to discuss historically* any of the questions referred to in 
these essays, but it is proper to remark that Cuvier and Brongniart seem to have 
been the first to apply paleontology to tin- study of structural geology (1800-1812), 
and that William Smith did the same, apparently independently of the two authors 
.just named, in 1816, 1S17. In lsli) Brongniart advanced the idea of correlating dis- 
tinctly separated formations by means of fossils. After the latter date these ideas 
rapidly gained acceptance, and the first steps toward the construction of a genera] 
geological scale soon followed. 



■ 28(> 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



from European text-books of geology, and is intended to represent tlie 
scale as it is now generally accepted and approved by geologists. It 
will of course be understood that only a general outline of the great 
scale which has been established by the concurrent labors of European 
geologists is represented by these tables, but they are deemed sufficieDt 
for illustrating the following remarks and discussions. 

Condensed scale of the fossilifcrous rocks, No. I, 1840.* 
Recent and Postpliocene. 

Pliocene ) 

Miocene I Tertiary. 

Eocene 

Maestricht 

White Chalk 

Chloritic Series 

Gault 

Neocomian 



Cretaceous 



Wealden 



Pnrheek Beds 

Portland Stone. . . 
Kiinmeridge Clay . 

Coral Rag 

Oxford Clay 

Great Oolite.- 

Inferior Oolite . . . 
Lias 



1 Jurassic . 



Secondary. 



Upper New Red Sandstone , Triassic . 

Lower Xew Red Sandstone Permian 

Coal Measures ) 

Mountain Limestone \ Carboniferous 

Old Red Sandstone Devonian \ Primary. 



Upper Silurian i 



Lower Silurian 

Cambrian? . ... Cambrian .' 

Condensed scale of the fossiliferous rocks, No. ..', J890, 
Recent and Postpliocene. 



Pliocene . . 
Miocene.. 
Oligocene 
Eocene... 



■1 



Tertiary Cenozoic. 



*At the date here indicated there was much difference of opinion as to the proper 
method of dividing the scale. This table is intended to represent the leading 
opinion, mainly as expressed by Lyell. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 287 



Condensed scale of the fossiUferoua rocha, No. ', 1890 — Continued. 



Danian 

Senonian 

Turouiau . . . 
Cenomanian. 

Ganlt 

Neocomian . . 



( Iretaceous 



l'ortlandian 

Oxfordian , , 

Bathouiau 

Lias, or Scbwarzcu Jura. 



Jurassic 



Rba-tic 

Keuper 

Muschelkalk 
Bunter 



Triassic 



Mesozoio, 



Permian, or Dias. 



Goal Measures 

Millstone Grit 

Carboniferous Limestone 



:1c, 



arboniferous . 



Upper Devonian : \ 

Middle Devonian Devonian 

Lower Devonian ' 



Paleozoic. 



Upper Silurian 
Lower Silurian. 



Silurian. 



Upper Cambrian 

Lower Cambrian \ 



Jo. 



nibrian 



It was the intention of the founders of this scale, as it is and has 
been of all other geologists, that it should represent the whole of geo- 
logical time from the beginning of life upon the earth until the begin- 
ning of the epoch of human history,* and that its divisions in the order 
in which they are named in the tables should represent consecutive 
portions of that time. It is necessarily assumed that each of these 
time divisions was represented by sedimentary deposits wherever dur- 
ing its continuance bodies-of water existed upon the earth, and where 
they did not exist the passage of time was not recorded at all, or that 
it was not so recorded as to be understood without reference to the 
aqueous record as represented by the scale. That is, it is necessarily 
assumed that although during every epoch of geological time there 
were portions of the earth's surface upon which no sedimentary de- 
posits were made because they were then above water level, there were 
during every epoch large portions of it beneath waters which were 
constantly depositing sediments. Thus, contemporaneously with such 
breaks in sedimentation within certain regions as have just been men- 



* Tbis statement may be taken as a definition of tbe term geological time, in tbe 
use of which term no direct reference is made txxsiderial time. 



288 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



fcioned, sedimentation was continuous and comparatively undisturbed 
in others. Therefore, notwithstanding the occurrence of numerous and 
extensive breaks, there lias been an abundant and continuous sedimen- 
tary record made for the whole earth. It is to this continuous record 
that the great geological scale is applied. Although the statement that 
sedimentation has been continuous upon the larger part of the earth's 
surface during every epoch of geological time now accords with the 
views of all geologists, it will be seen by proposition 3, on page 291 that 
in certain particulars it does not agree with those of the early geolo- 
gists; but this matter will be discussed on following pages. 

In dividing and subdividing the scale geologists have generally rec- 
ognized three grades of divisions, as is shown by the three columns of 
names in each of the two preceding tables, the second grade being 
subordinate to the first, and the third to the second. The divisions of 
the hist grade are general, only three in number, and evidently very 
unequal as to the actual duration of time represented by each. Those 
of the second grade are more, and those of the third still more special. 
The divisions of the third grade may each be locally represented by a 
single formation or by more than one. That is, formations are not the 
natural units of this scale. 

The different divisions of each of these three grades are unequal to 
one another, but for convenience of classification they are treated as 
of similar rank in each grade. It is not, however, to be understood 
that the different divisions of the same grade represent at best more 
than a remote approximation to equal portions of time or to equal 
average advances of animals and plants in biographical rank Besides 
this, the sedimentary accumulations which represent any one of the 
divisions of the respective grades may be many times greater than 
those of another division of the same grade, but the bulk of formations 
is not an index of the relative length of time within which each was 
accumulated, because the rate of sedimentary accunmltion was always 
extremely variable. 

In discussing the divisions of such a classification as these tables 
represent it is desirable that for the sake of clearness of statement each 
of them should have both a structural and chronological designation. 
That is, the general designation given to each of the assemblages of 
strata which constitutes a division or subdivision in such a classification 
ought, if practicable, to have a time correlative. The general failure of 
authors to agree upon such a plan is doubtless due to the natural dif- 
culty of correlating a chronological idea with physical objects which 
among themselves are of unequal quantity and, to a certain extent, of 
variable quality. In my own writings, however, I have generally used 
the term epoch as a time correlative of formation, and the term age as a 
time correlative of system,* but for present convenience I shall vary my 
custom in the latter respect which will be the less objectionable because 



See for example, Geology of Iowa, White, 1870, vol. i, p. 25. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 289 

the custom of geologists lias not been uniform as to the geueral desig- 
nation given to eacli of the three grades represented by the three eol- 
umnsofthe tables. In referring to and discussing these tables I shall 
therefore apply the time term stage instead of age to systemsor divisions 
of the second grade or middle column of the tallies and the term sub- 
stage to the divisions of the third grade or left hand column. 

It will be seen by the foregoing statements that although the greal 
scale in its entirety is comprehensive and trustworthy it is indefinite 
and unequal in its divisions and subdivisions, respectively. The sig- 
nificance of this indefiuiteness and inequality is made more or less 
apparent in the discussions which are recorded on following pages. 

Although the purpose of this scale is the classification of the sedi- 
mentary rocks of the earth its veal units are not physical but chrono- 
logical. That is, formations are not the units in this case as they are 
in the structural geology of districts or limited regions, but these units 
are such divisions of time as are indicated by the successive changes 
in the structure and character of the animals and plants which have 
existed upon the earth from the beginning of life until now. It is true, 
as has already been shown, that the chronological order of succession 
of a few formations may sometimes be determined within limited regions 
by means of their actually observed superposition, without reference 
to the fossil remains which they may contain. Such a method of de- 
termining that order, however, is wholly inadequate for general pur- 
poses because opportunities for observing successive cases of super 
position are comparatively rare and because formations never possess 
any other than biological characteristics which originally could have 
suggested the idea of their age with reference to the full course of 
geological time. Therefore,a rational scheme of universal stratigraphic 
classification can have no other than a biological basis. That is, its 
real basis must be the evidence which fossils afford of the progressive 
evolution of organic forms during the progress of geological time and 
the various divisions and subdivisions of a resulting scale, while they 
must of necessity be locally recognized with reference to formations 
and systems, must coincide with widely recognizable secular stages in 
the progress of thee volution. In short, the true basis of such a scheme 
of classification is essentially a great biological idea to which material 
expression is given by its application to the successive accumulations 
of sedimentary deposits which now constitute the stratified rocks of 
the earth. 

A comparison of the two preceding tables, although they represent 
only an abridgment of the great scale, will show at a glance how well 
the early geologists accomplished the work of constructing it. It will 
be observed that after more than fifty years of active scientific investi- 
gation the only essential changes that have been found necessary are 
thefillingof a few gaps and the mure complete definition of the Cambrian 
U. Mis. 114, pt. 2 19 



290 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

system at its base. Still, it is a fact that those pioneers of geological 
science builded better than they knew, for they accomplished their work 
at a time when the views of naturalists upon the vital principles of 
biology were radically different from those which now prevail.* They, 
therefore, misconceived the tine character of the basis of the scheme 
upon which they constructed their scale, and yet their structure remains 
without need of material change after a revolution in the methods of 
thought upon the subjects to which its fundamental idea pertains, the 
equal of which has never been known in the history of scientific inves- 
tigation.! That is. the scale, notwithstanding their misconception of 
its underlying principles, was constructed in accordance with certain 
immutable facts which they used wisely in their structure but inter- 
preted wrongly as to the relation to those principles of the facts which 
they so clearly perceived. It is to their erroneous interpretation of 
facts and the influence which that interpretation has had upon later 
investigators that I now desire to call special attention. 

Although the scale now in use was established before the truth of 
the progressive evolution of organic forms was accepted by naturalists 
and when all differences between those forms was believed to be due 
to special creations, general progression in average biological rank dur- 
ing geological time was perceived by the early geologists as well as by 
those of the present day, but with them it was the perception of a progres- 
sive succession in rank of faunal and floral groups of great assemblages 
of organic forms, and not the recognition of the principle of evolution. 
Therefore they sought methods of explaining the facts and conditions 
which they observed with reference to the geological scale which they 
had established that should accord with the biological views which 
then prevailed, and which were largely of a supernatural character. 
Indeed, in the absence of the now prevalent natural method of explain- 
ing these facts the supernatural method of the early geologists seems 
to have been necessary. 

The following deductive propositions which now remind a naturalist 
of the articles of a creed more than of a statement of scientific princi- 
ples, are presented as indicating the fundamental ideas held by the 
early geologists in connection with the construction of the geological 
scale and as illustrating the state of prevalent opinion among leading 
geologists upon biological subjects in their time. It is true that no one 

* It is tine that dicing those early years of geological investigation there were a 
few advanced thinkers who held a belief in the progressive evolution of all organic 
tonus, hut their views were then at best only tolerated by the great body of 
naturalists. 

tThis revolution occurred about midway of the time that is discussed with refer- 
ence to the two preceding tables— that is, about midway between 1840 and 1893. 
The fact that this time embraces nearly the whole history of really scientific geolog- 
ical investigation is suggestive of a hope that within less than a like number of 
years all the inherited effects of the erroneous views of the pioneers upon biological 
geology will have been eliminated. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 291 

author has ever published these propositions in the exact form in 
which they arc here presented, but I have formulated them from the 
published utterances of numerous authors and from my personal recol- 
lections of an active participation in geological work during a number 
of years immediately preceding the great revolution in methods of bio 
logical thought and investigation which has been referred to. In stat- 
ing these propositions reference is necessarily made to the divisions and 
subdivisions of the table on page 2S<>, representing the geological scale 
for 1840, and to the paragraphs preceding and following it. These 
propositions are: 

(1) That every species of animals and plants, both living and extinct, was specially 
created, and that they are, and always have been, immutable. That genera, and 
also the higher groups into w -Inch both the animal and vegetable kingdoms are sys- 
tematically divisible, are categories of creative thought, and that they also are im- 
mutable. 

(2) That although secular extinction of certain species, and even genera, occurred 
during everj stage of the geological scale, at the close of each stage, except the 
Tertiary, all life upon the earth was simultaneously destroyed, and that at the close 
of each substage life was at least in large part destroyed. 

(3) That, at the close of each stage coincidently with, and the divinely ordained 
instrument of, the complete extinction of life there was a universal physical catas- 
trophe, and that the close of each substage was, at least in part, physically catastro- 
phic. 

(4) That all life for each successive stage was created anew. 

(5) That the life of each stage embraced specially ordained generic, or more gen- 
eral, types which were distinctive of and peculiar to it, and that their distribution 
was world-wide. 

(8) That there was a special ordination of characteristic types for each substage, 
which received world-wide and simultaneous distribution within its narrow time 
limits. 

(7) That no identical and few similar, specific forms were created for any two or 
more stages. 

(8) That the world-wide distribution of the distinctive types of animals and plants 
which were ordained to characterize any stage or substage was effected in connec- 
tion with the act by which their respective faunas and floras were created; or that 
in the case of species not having a world-wide distribution the typical integrity of 
faunas and floras was preserved by the introduction of representative, that is, closely 
similar, but distinct species. 

(9) That by creative design the average biological rank of each new creation was 
higher than that of the next preceding one. 

(10) That upon the fossilizable parts of the animals and plants which were cre- 
ated for each stage, and upon those designed to characterize each substage, was 
impressed not only their own structural features, but recognizable evidence of their 
chronological ordination. 

These propositions represent only those views of the pioneer geolo- 
gists which pertain to biological geology. Other views which were 
held by them are unassailable, eyen in the light of the present advance 
of science, and their biological views are not introduced here for the 
purpose of disparagement, but to show that they gave origin to certain 
erroneous methods which are in part retained as an inheritance by 



292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S92. 

some paleontologists * even though they ostensibly accept the princi- 
ples of modern biology. 

It is evident from these propositions that the methods adopted by 
the early geologists of explaining the phenomena with which they had 
to deal, when any explanation was attempted, were based upon a belief 
in the supernatural origin and direct divine ordination of those phe- 
nomena, and not upon what is now accepted as a correct knowledge of 
natural laws. It will also be seen that among their leading ideas was 
that of sharp definition, not only of all the forms of animal and vege 
table life, but of the divisions of the geological scale, and consequently 
of all the divisions of geological time. Of all the ideas which they 
conceived and held, to which proper exception can be taken, the influ- 
ence of the one just mentioned, notwithstanding its inconsistency with 
natural laws, has evidently produced the most lasting influence upon 
modern geology. Some of the effects of this influence will be shown 
in the following propositions and in the remarks which follow them 
respectively. 

The foregoing propositions relate to what were regarded by the early 
geologists as fundamental ideas in the construction of the geological 
scale, while the following relate to those ideas which are now held to 
constitute its true basis because they only accord with natural laws. 
These are therefore essentially a counter statement of the preceding- 
propositions, but the principal object of their preparation is to point 
out the true relation of biology to systematic, historical and correlative 
geology. They consist largely of the statement of certain of the prin- 
ciples involved in the theory of organic evolution, but they are by no 
means intended as a full statement of those principles, nor are they 
presented for the purpose of either discussing or defining them as such. 
That is, the statements are made not for the purpose of formally enun- 
ciating these principles, but for the purpose of making practical appli- 
cation of them to the subject in hand. I have selected for* statement 
and comment such of them as 1 believe to be accepted by all naturalists 
who admit the truth of organic evolution, and! make such application 
of them as I believe will necessarily commend itself to all geologists 
who admit that truth audits applicability to biological geology. 

These propositions are not intended to embrace the whole range of 
biological geology, but only such of its leading principles as are discussed 

*As a rule I do not use the term paleontologist to indicate a geologist who prose- 
cutes his investigations mainly from a biological standpoint. He lias no more need 
of a special designation than one who devotes himself to geological dynamics or to 
stratigraphy, and much less than one who rejects the aid of fossil remains in the hit- 
ler branch of geological investigation. In the present instance, however, I refer to 
those who regard paleontological evidence not merely as essential in systematic 
geology, but as independent of physical evidence. The hitter claim will on follow- 
ing pages be shown to be without rational foundation. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION, 293 

in these essays. Therefore, a certain lack of immediate relevancy will 
appear in the order in which they are stated. 

I 1 ) All species of animals and plants have originated genetically from preexisting 
forms, and therefore nil arc more or less mutable as regards their reproduction. These, 
together with the various divisions higher than species into which the animal and 
vegetable kingdoms are divisible, have respectively acquired their distinguishing- 
characteristics hy differential and gradually progressive evolution. The extinction 
of all species and other divisions of the animal ami vegetable kingdoms which lias 
taken place during geological time has always been by natural means and in accord- 
ance with natural laws. It has generally been secular and gradual, but in many 
cases locally or regionally accidental. No universal extinction has ever occurred. 

This proposition is presented mainly as a countercheck to those por- 
tions of the preceding series of propositions which assert the special 
creation and periodically universal extinction of species, and also as a 
necessary concomitant of the propositions which follow. It is proper in 
this connection, however, to make some general remarks concerning 
species. 

It was comparatively easy to define a species in accordance with the 
views of the early naturalists, but it is more difficult to do so in accord- 
ance with the principles of modern biology. Because of this, and doubt- 
less in part because of the lingering influence of those early views, there 
is much difference of opinion as to what constitutes a species. This is 
especially observable among those who describe and publish fossil re- 
mains. Some treat every form which is describably different from 
another as a distinct species, while others treat these closely similar 
forms, especially if they evidently belong to the same fauna, as varieties, 
and apply the term species in a more comprehensive manner. 

I adopt the latter method in these essays, and regard as belonging to 
one and the same species all assemblages of individual forms, even if 
they are very variable, which occur in strata of the same stage, or if 
they occur in adjacent or other stages, which there is reason to believe 
freely interbred and were capable of producing the same kind with its 
varieties. — that is, 1 regard species as being variable as well as muta- 
ble. Still, although species are more or less variable, they have a 
recognizable entity, for while they are mutable they possess a certain 
tendency to stability of characteristics which has remained through long- 
lines of reproduction or until gradually overcome by evolutional change. 

(2) Coincident with the progress of evolution, notwithstanding the retardation, 
inertion, and even degradation that have occurred along certain lines, there has 
been during geological time a general average advancement in biological rank of ani- 
mal and vegetable tonus, evidence of which is afforded \>\ certain characteristics of 
their fossil remains. The evidence of this general advancement constitutes trie ulti- 
mate standard of measures of geological time as a whole and the principal means 
of ascertaining the order of full succession of the events which attended the pro 
dnction of the stratified rocks of the earth. 

ft is true, as was briefly mentioned in Essay n, tliat the practical 
geologist finds numerous local indications of the relative age of for- 



294 REPOBT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

illations and of the order of occurrence of geological events, such as the 
resting of one formation upon another, lava overflows, faults and other 
displacements, sub aerial erosion, etc. All such indications, however, 
are of service only in local, or at best in regional, investigations, and 
although they may be numerous and of great local value, they are 
always so disconnected that they can never be reduced to a general 
system of chronological classification, or even to a part of it, without 
the aid of fossil remains. It, therefore, can not be too earnestly asserted 
that the general advancement which has occurred during geological 
time in the biological rank of organic forms, notwithstanding its varia- 
tions and numerous discrepancies, together with their multifarious dif- 
ferentiation, constitutes the only means of measuring that time as a 
whole or of any considerable portions of it. It is to this abstract meas- 
ure of time that material form has been given in the construction of the 
geological scale. 

Notwithstanding the indispensability and general trustworthiness 
of this time-measure in the study of historical geology, it cau not be 
denied that it is not comparable in precision with the standard of 
sidereal time, because the latter is mathematically definable, while the 
former is based upon past biological conditions which were subject to 
infinite and often great variation. 

(3) The chronological features which fossils possess are not of a special character 
as such, but they are amoug those upon which their biological classification is based, 
all of which features have resulted from both progressive and differential evolution. 

Progressive, and differential evolution were more or less completely 
concurrent, but it was sometimes the case that the latter was greatly in 
excess of the former. From progressive evolution we have successive 
stages in biological rank, and from differential evolution the infinite 
variety of forms which occur in approximately the same rank. Both 
are often exemplified by one and the same series of fossil forms, but 
in the study of historical geology the results obtained from each are 
of different applicability. Those of progressive evolution are directly 
chronological in character, and therefore of broader significance, than 
are those of differential evolution, the results of the latter being only 
indirectly chronological in character and of empirical applicability in 
geological studies. 

Progressive evolution has produced from the great mass of life which 
has continuously existed upon the earth variously connected genetic 
lines of organic forms, the aggregate of which lines extended through 
the whole of geological time. The varying structure of these forms 
exhibits grades of biological rank, which, by their continuity and their 
relation to one another, become chronological in character as well as 
constituting the basis of their biological classification. 

Differential evolution has produced a great diversity of forms in each 
of the principal grades of biological rank which have successively ex- 
isted during geological time, and these are found by empirical study to 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 295 

characterize the respective stages and substages of the geological scale. 
While the principal evidence of the full chronological order of the 
stages and substages of the scale lias been derived from results of pro- 
gressive evolution alone, the results of the empirical studies just men 
tioned are of the utmost importance in systematic geology as well as in 
all practical geological investigations. Indeed, not only the first steps 
in the construction of the geological scale, but the working out of all its 
details, are the result of empirical study, while the result of the philo- 
sophical study of all its fossil forms followed and completed it as a 
chronological standard. 

(4) The average rate of progessive evolution for the different branches or divi- 
sions of both the animal and vegetable kingdoms has not been the same for each in 
all parts of the world, nor the same for all in any one part «>l the world, during all 
the time they have coexisted. 

While the various divisions of geological time as expressed in the 
construction of the great geological scale aresatisfaetorilyirecognizable 
by their respective fossil faunas and floras, each as a whole, their limits 
are often obscured not only by the ranging of certain specific forms 
from one to another, but by the relative acceleration and retardation of 
the rate of progressive evolution of certain of the types which are dis- 
tinctive of the divisions of the scale. Such retardation and accelera- 
tion have occurred in various divisions of both the animal and vegeta- 
ble kingdoms, which has not only resulted in obscuring the limits of 
the recognized divisions of the scale, but in imparing to some extent 
the relative chronological value of the characteristics possessed by 
fossil remains belonging to different branches respectively of the animal 
and vegetable kingdoms. 

These differences in rate were no doubt largely due to inherent differ- 
ences between those great groups of organic forms respectively, but they 
were also largely due to differences in the effects of the same environing 
conditions upon different groups; that is, the conditions which were 
congenial to the existence of marine, fresh water, and land faunas and 
land floras, respectively, <>r. in short, the conditions under which marine 
and continental life, each as a whole existed, have been so different and 
in many cases so incongruous that their relative rate of advancement 
in progressive evolution was necessarily unequal even under similar 
climatic and hydrographic conditions, and much more unequal when 
these conditions were different. 

For example, in Europe a certain progressive grade was reached for 
the whole of animal and vegetable lite which all geologists recognize 
as Cretaceous. In Xorth America remains of invertebrate life, and in 
part those of vertebrate life, exhibit evidence of essentially the same 
Cretaceous grade, but associated remains of vegetable life show a much 
more advanced grade, while a few vertebrate types show an earlier or 
retarded grade, all being judged by the European standard. 

The foregoing remarks apply particularly to the first part oi propo- 



296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

si t ion 4. The second part finds abundant illustration in tlie great dis- 
parity of advancement in rank between molluscan and mammalian life 
during Tertiary time and between molluscan and dinosaurian life dur- 
ing Mesozoic time. The disparity is seen to be all the greater if only 
the fresh water mollusca are considered, the slight differential develop- 
ment of which during successive epochs of geological time is mentioned 
and referred to in following paragraphs. 

In these essays the term type* is usually employed with reference to 
the chronological significance of the forms or groups of forms thus des- 
ignated. Their succession in time was not necessarily coincident with 
progressive evolution, but they were always the result of differential 
evolution. Their chronological value to the geologist depends upon the 
dehniteness of the limits of their time range. Usually their time range 
was comparatively short, but sometimes they continued their existence 
through long periods of time. A considerable number of types are 
specially characteristic of each stage of the geological scale, but any 
of them were liable to range beyond its limits. 

(5) The rate of differential evolution among the forms constituting certain 
divisions of the animal and vegetable kingdoms was greater than that among those 
constituting other divisions; and it was greater for some of the members of a given 
division under certain conditions than it was for other members of the same divi- 
sion under other conditions. 

The truth of this proposition may be more clearly shown by exam- 
ples than by explanation. Some of the most remarkable examples of 
slight differential evolution during a succession of geological periods 
being furnished by fresh water and land molluscan faunas, these may 
first be mentioned. 

fossil remains of numerous fresh water gill-bearing molluscan fau- 
nas have been found in North American strata belonging to nearly 
every geological period from the Jurassic to the post Tertiary, inclu- 
sive, each fauna consisting of members most, and sometimes all, of 
which belong to genera that are abundantly represented by living 
species; that is, only a small proportion at most of extinct genera, 
and no extinct families are known to have been included in any of 
these faunas. In short, the differential evolution of the North Ameri- 
can fresh water mollusca during the Mesozoic andCenozoic eras seems 



Because the term "type" is used in theseessays in a special and alsoasomewhat 
variable sense, it requires explanatory definition. It is herein used to indicate groups 
of animal or vegetable forms which have certain recognizable but often difficultly 
describable, characteristics in common. Such groups are sometimes identical with 
genera, but "hey are sometimes less, and often more comprehensive, even embracing 
families and. in rare cases, orders. They usually have only an incidental relation 
to the groups which are recognized as divisions of the systematic classification of 
animals and plants, but they sometimes coincide with them or constitute accessory 
features of such classification. Types thus designated are recognizable by general 
form, peculiar details of essential parts of struct lire, accessory features, or a general 
summary of peculiarities of structure or biological characteristics. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 297 

to have been coniined mainly to specific variation, and in many cases 
this also was slight. These remarks apply equally to the gasteropods 
and lamellibranchiates. Furthermore, the land and palustral pulmo- 
nale mollusks which were contemporary with those just mentioned 
seem as a whole to have been subject t> little if any greater degree of 
differential evolution than were the others. It is true that progressive 
evolution in the case of all these mollusks was also very slight, but 
that does not explain the cause of the slight differential evolution. 

During the time that all those fresh water and land mollusks were 
so slightly affected by evolutional change marine mollusks were not 
only extremely differentiated, but many genera and some families suc- 
cessively became extinct and many others were introduced. During 
that time also some of the most important advances were made in both 
progressive and differential evolution of animal ami vegetable forms 
that have ever occurred upon the earth. So far as is now known all 
exogenous plants began their existence since those mollusks began 
theirs, and the earlier ones mentioned were contemporaneous with the 
most tlourishing period of the dinosaurs. That great reptilian sub- 
class passed its climax of development and became extinct, and yet 
those mollusks were meantime but little changed. 

An example of extreme differential evolution is afforded by the Tri- 
lobites, which in the early geological ages became greatly differenti- 
ated, but from the time the order became established to that of its ex- 
tinction there was comparatively little advancement in biological rank. 
A somewhat similar example is afforded by the dinosaurs. While 
their rank among reptiles was the highest the difference in average 
rank between the earliest and latest known forms belonging to that 
subclass is comparatively small and little, if any, in favor of the latter 
forms. The Mammalia afford a notable example of both progressive 
and differential evolution, ranging in time from the early Tertiary and 
in rank ending with man. 

(6) The succession of gradual mutations in the development of the Leading classi- 
ficatory features which characterize certain groups of fossil tonus was not neces- 
sarily concurrent with consecutive portions of time. 

For example, the mutations of the flexures of the dental sac which 
produced the various structural features of the teeth by which the dif- 
ferent groups ofthe mammalia were characterized, or those of the mantle 
in the production of the lobes and saddles ofthe septa of chambered 
cephalopods, did not in either case occur along a single line of progres- 
sive evolution, but along numerous differential lines coincident with each 
of which the rate ofbiologieal progress was different from that of others. 
Therefore advanced stages of progress must necessarily have been 
reached on certain of those lines contemporaneously with much retarded 
stages on others, and similar stages of progress were reached at more 
or less widely separated intervals of time. 

This statement concerning 1 the dental features of the Mammalia and 



298 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the septal features of the chambered ceplialopods * is only intended to 
show that while they really have a good degree of chronological value 
they can not be relied upon to indicate consecutive portions of time, nor 
as absolute tokens of substages of the geological scale. 

(7) The progress of" secular extinction of species and other divisions of the animal 
and vegetable kingdoms, including the types which specially characterize the various 
stages and substages of the geological scale, was accelerated hy adverse changes of 
environing conditions and were retarded by a continuance of congenial conditions. 
The final consummation of the extinction of the types was naturally often, and 
perhaps usually, caused by catastrophic changes of conditions which occurred within 
the limited areas to which they were reduced by approaching secular extinction. 

Secular extinction of all of these forms would naturally begin in those 
localities which first became uncongenial and would be longest deferred 
where congenial conditions lingered longest. It has thus happened 
that certain of the types which specially characterized a given stage or 
substage of the geological scale have survived in some parts of the 
world long after they became extinct in other parts, and indeed after 
the close of the stage or substage which they and their associates had 
specially characterized. In such cases the surviving types are found 
associated with those which characterize a later stage or substage than 
the one in which they originated. 

In this way, for example, it is possible that a given assemblage of 
strata in one region which upon ex parte paleontological evidence would 
be assigned to the Cretaceous was actually c< nitemporaneous with another 
assemblage elsewhere, which, upon other ex parte evidence would be 
assigned to the Tertiary. A similar statement may be made concerning 
any of the other systems or stages of the geological scale with reference 
to those which adjoin them respectively. 

It is not necessary to infer that the locally catastrophic changes 
which completed the final act of extinction of species and types were 
always, or even generally, due to violent physical movements of the 
earth's crust. Such physical changes as would diminish food supply, 
increase the number and relative strength of enemies, alter climatic 
conditions, or affect the quality of habitable waters were doubtless the 
usual immediate causes of final extinction. 

(8) The geographical distribution of species within the time limits of the stages 
and substages of the geological scale, and consequently that of the distinguishing 
types which the species constitute, has been effected by natural means. Such means 
included not only locomotory and mechanical dispersion within those time-limits 
from one original center which was then the terminus of an evolutional line, but, at 
least in the same cases, survival in various regions by separate evolutional lines 
from the faunas of preceding stages and substages was also included. 

Because these septal features were extraneous to the bodily structure and bore no 
known relation to that structure or to any animal function it may well be questioned 
whether a classification based upon them is accordant with that which their anato- 
mical structure might have furnished. Indeed the philosophical naturalist can not 
be entirely satisfied with such a classification. The case is different, however, as 
regards mammalian dentition, which has direct relation to essential structure and 
bodily functions. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 299 

It can not be reasonably doubted thai ;is a rule the specific forms 
which constitute the fossil aquatic fauna of any stage <>v substage of 
the geological scale reached the localities where they are found by 
geographical dispersion from a single genetic center, even in cases of 
unusually great dispersion. Slill.it seems impossible that all the fossil 
forms which geologists usually feel obliged to regard as representing 
separate species could have originated and become dispersed in that 
manner. It therefore may be reasonably assumed that each of the 
really or apparently identical forms which occur in different regions, 
but which belong to one certain stage or substage, may have reached 
their respective geographical stations within that stage or substage by 
separate evolutional lines from a common ancestral form which existed 
in a preceding stage, which lines were too slightly differentiated to 
produce new specific characteristics. In short, paleontological evidence 
seems to warrant the conclusion that in many cases, at least, both 
generic and specific forms have originated independently in different 
parts of the world, not only contemporaneously, but at successive inter- 
vals of time. 

If species and genera really had such a diversity of origin as has 
been suggested, the various types which they constitute and which are 
held to characterize the various stages ami sitbstages of the geological 
scale maybe assumed to have originated in a similarly diverse manner. 
Furthermore, the variable rate of differential evolution suggests a rea- 
son why certain of the characteristic types of a given stage or substage 
might naturally have survived the others and continued their existence 
into the next substage, as indicated in the paragraph following propo- 
sition 0. 

(9) The animal and vegetable life of cadi stage of the geological scale was in the 
aggregate different as to its forms from that of all others, ai.d each stage and sub- 
stage was further specially characterized by certain generic, and also more general, 
types or peculiar groups of species. These types, however, were not necessarily 
confined within absolute time-limits. 

So distinctive are the assemblages of types of organic forms which 
characterize each of the stages or systems of stratified rocks that, not- 
withstanding the exceptions mentioned in preceding paragraphs, the 
experienced geologist upon such evidence alone readily assigns to its 
proper stage of the great geological scale comprehensive collections of 
fossil remains from any given series of stratified rocks in any part of 
the world. For example, the great Carboniferous system has been by 
means of its fossils as distinctly recognized in Asia and in North and 
South America as in Europe where it was first studied, and in all those 
parts of the world it has been supposed to be sharply definable and 
wholly distinct, as to its fossil forms, from the Triassic above and the 
Devonian beneath. Later investigations, however, have shown that 
Devonian and Carboniferous types are often commingled upon the 
lower, and Carboniferous and Triassic types upon the upper, confines 
of the Carboniferous system. 



300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

Sucli a commingling of types is known to occur upon the confines of 
other systems as well as the < 'orboniferous, and the discovery of similar 
faunal conditions is to be expected in the case of any of them in all 
regions where the successive series of stratified rocks is complete. 
That is, where there is a sharply defined boundary between any two 
systems it has been due to such physical changes as broke the conti- 
nuity of sedimentation and of life for the region in which it occurred. 

(10) Although movements and displacements of the earth's crust have from time 
tn time occurred over large portions of its surface, arresting sedimentation or chang- 
ing its character and causing great destruction of life, there has never heen a uni- 
versal catastrophe'of that hind. On the contrary, during all the time that disastrous 
conditions prevailed in any given area, conditions congenial to the existence and 
perpetuity of life prevailed in other and greater areas. 

Tt is this persistence of congenial physical conditions over large por- 
tions of the earth's surface while smaller portions were disastrously 
affected that has not only insured the perpetuity of life in general, but 
that has insured the survival of certain chronological types of living 
forms in some parts of the earth after their complete extinction in 
other parts. Furthermore it is the evidence of the unbroken continuity 
of sedimentation attending those congenial conditions, as well as that 
of the unbroken continuity of life, which renders it difficult and often 
impracticable to draw distinct physical, as well as biological, lines of de- 
marcation between contiguous stages and snbstages of the geological 
scale, especially when attempting to determine the correlation of the 
divisions of the scale for different parts of the world. 

The second of the two sets of propositions, together with the accom- 
panying remarks, which are recorded on the preceding pages, show 
that certain of the views held by the early geologists, notably those 
which assumed the universally sharp definition of all the divisions of 
the geological scale, were radically wrong. Still, it is evident to every 
one who is familiar with modern geological literature that those views 
have continued to exert an adverse influence upon the biological 
branch of geological investigation long after they have been formally 
rejected, even by those who continued to be influenced by them. The 
early geologists adopted methods of investigation which were consis- 
tent with their biological views, but I have shown that from the pres- 
ent standpoint of biology certain of those views were so fundamentally 
wrong that the methods which were based upon them are quite out of 
place in modern investigation. Still, those methods of our energetic 
predecessors have come down to the present time with such force and 
with such evidence of the general correctness of the scale which they 
had established by them that it has been difficult for their successors 
to adopt the modification of methods which has been necessitated by 
the great subsequent revolution in biological thought ami methods of 
investigation. 

The facts which have been presented on the preceding pages show- 
that, while the scale which the early geologists established is a wonder- 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 301 

ful production of human reasoning and the best possible general stand 
ard which can be adopted before a comparatively full investigation of 
the geology of the whole earth has been made, it is not, and cannot 
be except in a general way, of universal applicability. That is, while 
the respective stages and substages of the scale are recognizable only 
by means of their characteristic fossil remains, it has been shown that 
any of those characteristic forms are so liable To range from one stage 
or substage to another that it is impossible to sharply define the limits 
of stages, and often impossible to distinguish substages in one part of 
the world as they are known in another part. 

The facts and principles which are enunciated and explained in this 
essay are of great importance in discussions of the relative chronologi- 
cal value of the different kinds of fossil remains and of the correlation 
of series of strata in separate regions of the earth, both of which sub- 
jects will, however, be specially discussed in following essays. 

There is another subject which, if more data were available, might 
be profitably discussed at length in this connection. This subject re- 
lates to what may be designated as paleoclimatic conditions,* that is, 
to formerly existing conditions, which in certain parts of the earth were 
more or less materially different from those which now exist in the 
same parts. The evidence that such climatic changes have occurred 
upon the earth's surface consists of the presence of the fossil remains 
of kinds of animals and plants the living congeners of which could not 
exist in such a climate as now prevails there. For example, abundant 
fossil remains of arboreal floras are found in Greenland far north of the 
present northern limit of trees, and fossil corals are found at various 
localities in similar latitudes which are still farther beyond the northern 
limit of living coral- forming polyps. 

These and similar cases must be taken as positive proof that great 
changes of climate have occurred upon the earth, but there are other 
cases which are frequently accepted as evidence of such changes that 
are of a more doubtful character. That is, +here is much reason to 
believe that certain kinds of animals and plants formerly lived under 
climatic conditions which their nearest living congeners seem incapable 
of enduring. For example, the natural range of living elephants, 
rhinoceroses, and palms does not reach beyond a warm-temperature 
climate, but remains of certain species of those animals have been found 
where arctic winters prevail, and they are known to have been pro 
vided with a hairy protection against the cold. Remains of palms 
have also been found associated with those of fossil floras that indicate 
at least a cool temperate, if not a more severe, climate. 

There is a multitude of other facts which bear upon this subject, but 
only these references to it are introduced here to indicate it as one of 
those which the geologist needs to bear in mind in all his biological 
investigations, especially those which pertain to correlation. 

* Il^Xaio^, ancient; KAijita, climate. 



302 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



V. THE RELATIVE CHRONOLOGICAL VALUE OF FOSSIL REMAINS. 

The discussions in the preceding essay of the positive value of fossil 
remains in systematic and historical geology have made it apparent 
that there is much difference in their relative value, especially as regards 
their use in characterizing the different stages of the geological scale and 
in determining the geological age of the strata in whichvfchey may be dis- 
covered. It is this subject, the relative chronological value of fossil 
remains, which I propose to discuss in this essay. 

The basis of comparison of such values is a matter of much impor- 
tance. The early geologists believed that all kinds of animals and 
plants were specially endowed at their creation with a certain chrono- 
logical impress, but that this impress, being more distinctly recogniz- 
able in the fossil remains of some kinds than in those of others, they are 
consequently of greater chronological value. According to this idea 
the relative value of fossil remains consists only in the greater or less 
distinctness with which that impress can be recognized. The accept- 
ance of the theory of the evolutional development of organic forms 
necessitates the rejection of this idea of the early geologists, which 
was one of the strongest influences in shaping their views of historical 
geology, but as already intimated its adverse influence is still observ- 
able in the practice of certain modern authors, even though they may 
theoretically disavow it. 

Rejecting the idea of special endowment just referred to, we must 
consider the relative chronological value of fossil remains with refer- 
ence to the natural laws which have produced their characteristics and 
governed the various conditions of their origin. Much may profitably 
be said concerning the comparative chronological value of the different 
genera, families, etc., belonging to one and the same class of any 
branch of either the animal or vegetable kingdom, or to different classes, 
but I propose to discuss only the broader relations to one another of 
the more general kinds of fossil remains. These discussions will re- 
late to the time range of each of those general kinds, the various con- 
ditions under which they have been preserved, the various conditions 
of habitat of the animals and plants which they represent, the relative 
rate of evolutional development of the different kinds and their differ- 
ences of reciprocal relation to one another. 

No fact in historical geology is more conspicuous than that of the 
great differences in time range of the various kinds of organic forms, 
some of them having ranged through the whole of the time represented 
by the geological scale, while others, and among them some of the bio- 
logically most important kinds, ranged through only a comparatively 
small part of it. 

The various conditions under which the different kinds of fossil re- 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— White. 



Plate XIV. 







A 


E 


c 


D E E G 




Recent.- 




















Tertiary. 




















Cretaceous, 




















Jurassic. 




















Triassic, 


















CARBONIFEROUS; 




P 






■ 
< 






Devonian. 




L 










IL Silurian. 




i 


1 


i : 




USilurian. 




1 




Cambrian. 







Table showing the Time-range of Certain Kinds of Animals and Plants. 



A. Marine invertebrates. 

B. Non-marine and land invertebrates. 

C. Fishes. 

D. Batraehians and reptiles. 



E. Birds. 

F. Mammals. 

G. Land plants. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 303 

mains have been preserved is also of great importance in this connec- 
tion. Some of them Lave been preserved only in marine deposits and 
others only in nonmarine. Marine deposits have been continuous 
through the whole of geological time, while nonmarine deposits are not 
known among the older formations, and those which are known have 
necessarily been isolated and have had little or no direct relation either 
to one another or to marine deposits. The various conditions of habi- 
tat of the animals and plants which have furnished fossil remains also 
have much significance with reference to these discussions because of 
their essential relation to the differences between the kinds audto their 
differences of relation to one another. 

It was shown in the preceding essay that while the general ad- 
vancement in biological rank of organic forms which has occurred dur- 
ing geological time constitutes the ultimate standard of measure for 
that time, there has not been a uniform secular advancement for all 
kinds, but that there has been much difference in the rate of evolu- 
tional advancement for the various kinds of both animals and plants. 
Again, the differences of reciprocal relation between the various kinds 
of animals and plants which have furnished fossil remains are inti- 
mately connected with the causes which have produced the differences 
of chronological value of those remains. That is, certain kinds were 
not ODly radically different from others, but they lived under such wide 
differences of condition and were so nearly free from reciprocal rela- 
tion to others, that they could not have produced a closely similar chro- 
nological record. 

The facts thus briefly stated are of themselves clearly suggestive of 
the subject of this essaj', that is, of wide difference in the relative 
value of the different kinds of fossil remains as means of characterizing 
the different stages of the geological scale and of determining the geo- 
logical age of the strata in which they are found. These differences, 
however, will be discussed at some length on the following pages, but 
it is proper to say at the outset that while certain of the kinds men- 
tioned are much more valuable for the purpose indicated than are 
others, it is inexcusable iu any geologist, in attempting to determine 
the geological age of formations, to reject any kind as valueless, or to 
fail to give due weight to every accessible relevant fact, whether bio- 
logical or physical. 

A special grouping of the different kinds of fossil remains is more 
appropriate for these discussions than is a strictly systematic one, and 
1 have therefore adopted the following: (a) marine invertebrates, (b) 
nonmarine and land invertebrates, (c) fishes, (<l) batrachians and rep- 
tiles, (e) birds, (/) mammals, and (g) land plants. For convenience of 
reference our present knowledge of the time-range of these kinds may 
be presented in tabular form. The accompanying table, Plate XIV, rep- 
resenting the whole of geological time by its height, indicates in a 
general way by perpendicular lines the time range of the kinds just 



304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 181)2. 

mentioned, and remarks in following paragraphs further explain the 
known range of some of the subordinate, as well as that of the princi- 
pal kinds. 

The horizontal spaces of the table represent the systems or stages of 
the geological scale. The proportionate width of the spaces which 
contain the names of those systems or stages is not intended to indi- 
cate the actual ratio of geological time for each, but it may be stated 
as the general opinion of competent investigators that the portion of 
the scale from the Cambrian to the Carboniferous inclusive represents 
a much greater length of time than does the portion from the Trias to 
the Tertiary inclusive. In other words, it is generally believed that 
the Paleozoic portion of the geological scale was of much longer dura- 
tion than was that of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic portions together. 

The perpendicular lines in the table, which are placed singly or in 
pairs or groups under letters of the alphabet from A to G inclusive, 
represent the time range of the kinds of animals and plants which 
have already been mentioned, and which for convenience of reference 
are again recorded opposite corresponding letters at the foot of the 
table. This method of grouping the different kinds of animals and 
plants, as already intimated, is adopted only for present convenience 
in making comparisons of chronological values. All the principal kinds 
which are designated in the usual systematic classification are, how- 
ever, included in these special groups, the few that are omitted being- 
regarded as of little or no importance in this connection. The dotted 
portion of certain of the lines indicates uncertainty as to the real ex- 
tent of the time range which is shown by them because of imperfect or 
doubtful representation of those kinds by discovered fossil remains. 

Of all the animals which have existed upon the earth whose remains 
have been discovered only those of marine invertebrates have been 
found to range through the whole geological scale. The time range of 
these important portions of the animal kingdom is represented by the 
group of five perpendicular lines under the letter A. The marine in- 
vertebrate life thus represented includes the Protozoa, Coelenterata, 
Annuloida. Annulosa. and Mollusca, the latter including the Mollus- 
coida. That is, it includes rive of the six subkingdoms or branches of 
the animal kingdom. 

The nonmarine and land invertebrates whose time range is intended 
to be represented in the table by the two perpendicular lines under the 
letter B are only insects and freshwater, brackish-water, and land 
mollusks. The discovered fossil remains of all other nonmarine and 
land invertebrates are regarded as either too rare or too unimportant to 
be profitably considered in the comparisons which are to follow. The 
longer of the two lines may be taken as representing the known time 
range of insects and the shorter that of land and nonmarine mollusca. 

The pair of perpendicular lines in the table under the letter C shows 
the approximate time range of all the various kinds of animal remains 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 305 

which have been referred to the fishes. The shorter of the two lines in- 
dicates the known range of the teliosl fishes and the longer which of 
the other kinds, the latter including certain forms that differ materially 
from any living fishes. 

The time range of Batrachians and reptiles, so far as it is known, is 
shown by the three perpendicular lines in the table under the letter D, 
that of the dinosaurs alone being represented by the shortest line of 
the three. 

The known time range of birds is represented by the single line under 
the letter E. It is here assumed that most, if not all, the fossil tracks 
round in Triassic strata and formerly referred to birds are those of 
dinosaurs. 

The two lines in the table under the letter F represent the known 
time range of mammals, the longer line representing that of the non- 
placental and the shorter that of the placental mammals. 

The known time range of land plants is represented by the two lines 
under the letter (1. The shorter line represents the range of the dicoty- 
ledons and palms and the longer one that of all other kinds. The alga' 
and diatoms are omitted from the table as being of little or no impor- 
tance in the comparisons and discussions which are to follow. 

The earlier portion of the time range for each of the kinds of animals 
and plants as shown by the perpendicular lines in the table is naturally 
more incompletely and indefinitely represented by fossil remains than 
is the later portion, because of the smaller variety and greater rarity of 
those earlier remains and also in most eases because of the increasing 
difference in character from living forms which is observable from later 
to earlier formations. In Nome cases, however, the early portion of the 
time range as it is now known begins so suddenly and with forms of 
such high biological rank as to make it evident that its real beginning 
was mucn earlier than it nas yet been proved to be by actual discovery 
of fossil remains. The last mentioned fact is of great importance in 
many respects, buc n does not necessarily affect the question under 
consideration, because all estimates of the relative chronological value 
of fossil remains must be confined co the kinds already known, and the 
application of such estimates must be confined to those portions of the 
geological scale in the strata pertaining to which the remains are 
known to occur. 

Although much the greater part of all the known fossil remains of 
the earth are of marine origin, it is a significant fact that most of the 
general kinds represented in the table are either of nonmarine or hind 
origin. The extreme diversity o'l these conditions of habitat implies a 
wide diversity of character and suggests a wide difference of values. 
It is this diversity which makes it necessary to discuss the different 
kinds of tossil remains with reference to both habitat and conditions 
of preservation. 

H. Mis. 114, pt, 2 20 



306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

While ;i greater or less number of other kinds of animals, such as the 
Cetacea, Sirenia, birds, reptiles, etc., resort to or live in marine waters, 
only invertebrates and fishes have marine aqueous respiration. It is 
therefore evident that with the foreinentioned exceptions, together with 
that of their ancient representatives, these kinds of animals only have 
ever been denizens of marine waters, and it is also evident that with 
the exception of a few migratory kinds the remains of denizens of 
marine waters found intombment in no other than marine sedimentary 
deposits. 

The character of the physiological functions of all the other animals 
which are represented by fossil remains made them denizens either of 
the land or of nonmarine waters. In view of this fact and of others 
which have been mentioned in Essay i, b is apparent that with few 
and mostly accidental exceptions their remains became fossilized only 
in nonmarine sedimentary deposits. 

The land in the vicinity of inland bodies of water naturally consti- 
tuted a more congenial habitat for such plants as have in part become 
fossilized than did open seacoasts, and, as shown in Essay I, plant re- 
mains were nmch more likely to have become preserved in nonmarine 
than in marine sediments. This statement is supported by the fact that, 
with rare exceptions, all discovered plant remains, especially such as are 
preserved in a classifiable condition, are found in nonmarine deposits, 
which an? shown to be such by the character of the accompanying re- 
mains of aquatic faunas. Among the apparent exceptions to this rule 
are the beds of coal, and of shale containing plant remains, which are 
found to alternate with other beds bearing remains of unmistakably 
marine animals. These cases, however, are regarded as representing 
alternate subsidence and slight emergence of marshy land with relation 
to the level of shallow marine waters. Such conditions are accordant 
with the foreinentioned alternation of the remains of land plants with 
those of marine animals, and also with the fact that the actual com- 
mingling in one and the same bed of the two kinds of remains has very 
rarely been discovered. 

The foregoing facts make it evident that as a rule, having only the 
exceptions just indicated, strata of marine origin contain no other fos- 
sil remains than those of invertebrates and fishes. It should also be 
remarked in this connection that fish remains are often absent from 
strata that contain invertebrate remains in great abundance, ami that 
in all other cases the proportion of the former to the latter is very small 
as regards both numbers and variety — that is, as a rule, fish remains 
are comparatively so rare that a large proportion of the marine forma- 
tions are found to contain no other fossil remains than those of inver- 
tebrates. Those facts also make it evident that with few and compar- 
atively unimportant exceptions the remains of all land animals, as well 
as those of all land plants, are found only in sedimentary deposits of 
nonmarine origin. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. .'JOT 

By referring to the table on Plate xiv it will be seen that the time 
range of none of the nonmarine kinds of fossil remains extends much 
beyond the estimated later half of geological time, and that the range 
of a part of them is nnicli less. It will also be observed that the time 
range of marine invertebrates is from the beginning to the end of the 
time represented by the geological scale. Therefore, there is no possi- 
bility of making comparisons between remains of marine animals and 
those of all other animals as well as those of land plants for a very 
large early part of the geological scale, because none of the latter kinds 
have been discovered there. Indeed, opportunities for any such com- 
parisons for the whole Paleozoic portion of the scale, besides those 
which are practicable between remains of the marine animals and those 
of the land plants of the Carboniferous system, are very few and com- 
paratively unimportant. It is probable that many and important non- 
marine deposits were formed during Paleozoic time and that they con- 
tained the remains of nonmarine faunas, but reference is here made 
only to the present extent of our knowledge in that direction. 

For the Mesozoic and Cenozoic portions of the geological scale oppor- 
tunities are much more numerous for comparing fossil remains of ma- 
rine with those of nonmarine origin than they are for the Paleozoic 
portion. This is because nonmarine formations are of more frequent 
occurrence among the sedimentary rocks of the two later eras than 
among those of Paleozoic era, and also because of the greater abun- 
dance and variety of the remains of nonmarine and land faunas and of 
laud floras in those later formations. It is, however, a fact of great 
importance in this connection that the aggregate proportion of non- 
marine formations to those of marine origin, even for the Mesozoic and 
Cenozoic portions of the scale, is very small. 

It is thus apparent that for the Paleozoic portion of the scale it is 
marine formations almost exclusively with which the geologist has to 
deal, and that for the remainder of the scale marine formations are far 
in excess of the nonmarine. Indeed, they are so far in excess that, 
with the exception of a few regions like the interior portion of North 
America, for example, the occurrence of nonmarine formations is quite 
exceptional. 

The absence of marine deposits among the formations of the earlier 

part of the geological scale and the great excess of the mari >ver 

the nonmarine among those of the later part, even where the latter 
are most abundant, is a great impediment to the comparisons which it 
isdesirable to make between them aud their fossil contents respectively. 
Still, this is not a greater impediment to such comparisons than is the 
incongruity or want of reciprocal relation not only between the marine 
and nonmarine, but between the different kinds of the latter.* 



*Dr. Theodore (Jill lias clearly pointed out the incongruity between land and 
marine faunas from the standpoint of recent biology. See Proc. Biolog. Sue, Wash- 
ington. Vol. 2, p. 32. lXX->; ami Tin- Nation. Vol. 1' 1 . \>. 13. 1877. 



308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The physical incongruity between marine and nonmarine formations 
is manifest in 1 1 it* tact that the presence of one or more of the latter 
in a series of the former kind of formations always implies that there 
have been such disturbances of physical conditions as to cause at least 
a local break ia the continuity of marine sedimentation as well as in 
that of faunal succession. Such breaks also imply a greater or less 
interruption of the chronological record, the extent and character of 
which can be determined, if at all, only by indirect means. It is, how- 
ever, the want of reciprocal relation between marine faunas on the one 
hand and nonmarine and land faunas and laud floras on the other that 
more concerns the question of the relative value of the different kinds 
of fossil remains in characterizing the time divisions of the geological 
scale than docs a similar want with reference to other kinds. 

The biological contrast between marine faunas and land floras and 
between their respective conditions of existence is so complete that it 
is unreasonable to assume that the evolutional changes which have 
taken place in each during geological time were chronologically concur- 
rent. Therefore, whatever of intrinsic value in the characterization 
of the divisions of the scale the fossil remains of the one series may 
possess, it is quite independent of that of the other. 

It is true that the biological contrast between marine faunas and 
land faunas is not so complete as it is between marine faunas and land 
floras, but as regards interdependence and common conditions of ex- 
istence the want of reciprocal relation between marine faunas and a 
largo proportion of the members of all the land faunas is well nigh 
complete. Rsal or apparent exceptions to such completeness are ob- 
servablein the exclusively marine habitat, or marine resort for subsist- 
ence, of certain mammals, reptiles, ami birds, but these are cases of 
adaptation to conditions which are abnormal of exceptional for the 
respective classes to which they belong. 

Notwithstanding these exceptions if is evident that during geological 
time there has been no necessary concurrence of rate or degree of pro- 
gressive evolution between murine and land faunas, and therefore that 
the chronological value of the one series of faunas has in no ease a 
necessary relation to that of the other, or no other than a common sec- 
ular relation,* which is at best obscure. 

The relation of the marine to the nonmarine aquatic faunas is less 
incongruous than it is in the case of the land faunas already noticed, 
the respective members of nonmarine faunas having much in common 
with corresponding members of marine faunas as regards zoological 
affinity. Such a relation, however, does not make nonmarine fossil 
faunas of concurrent chronological value with the marine, because of 
the conspicuous fact that the rate of both progressive and differential 
evolution has been remarkably slow in the case of nonmarine. especially 

v The difficulty or impossibility of correlating mariue deposits with those of non- 
marine origin is discussed al the close of Essay vi. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 309 

fresh-water, faunas. Among illustrations of this tardiness of evolution 
may be mentioned the close similarity to one another of the Jurassic, 
( Jretaceous, Tertiary, and recent fresh-water mollusean faunas, and also 
the fad that much the greater pari of the ancient ichthyic types which 
have survived to the present day arc found among the fresh- water fishes. 

The foregoing comparisons have been made between marine faunas 
(.11 the one hand and all other faunas and the land floras on the other. 
When we come to compare the various kinds of land animals with one 
another, and with land plants, we find that while reciprocal biological 
relation between them is more or less intimate in certain respects, there 
is no such relation as would necessarily have produced a concurrent 
rate of progressive evolution in all of them. On the contrary, when we 
come to examine the fossil land faunas and floras we tin.l that there has 
been a great difference among them as to the rate of progressive evo- 
lution for each, and also a marked difference in the relative extent of 
differential evolution. 

For example, the earliest known dinosaurs were introduced before 
the earliest known dicotyledonous plants. The former, after a wonder- 
fully differentiated development, became extinct, together with tin' 
enaliosaurs, about the time of the introduction of the earliest known 
of the placental mammals. Other reptilian families, and even closely 
related genera, which were contemporary with the dinosaurs and enal- 
iosaurs, have survived to the present day. Long before the extinction 
of the dinosaurs, and before the introduction of the earliest known pla- 
cental mammals, a dicotyledonous flora prevailed, composed largely of 
families which are well represented by living plants, several of which 
families contain genera that are common among living floras.* 

Up to the close of the Cretaceous the general rate of progressive 
evolution of land plants was, as shown in the preceding essay, more 
rapid for North America than for Europe: but it was afterward much 
less rapid on this continent than was that of the contemporary placen- 
tal mammals. 

For the time that the dinosaurs are known to have existed their rate 
of progressive evolution was very slow and their differential evolution 
very great. That is. while their differential evolution resulted in an 
infinite variety of forms and their adaptation to the greatest extremes 
in methods of locomotion and of dietetic subsistence, the average bio 
logical rank of the Jurassic and Cretaceous dinosaurs seems not to have 
been appreciably higher than is that of their Triassic predecessors. 
Indeed, it is an admitted fact that many of the latest known North 
American dinosaurs have strong Jurassic affinities; and it may also be 
remarked that the affinities of their associated nonplacental mamma 
ban remains are similar in this respect. 

*AI1 these comparisons are made wiih special reference o> North American paleoii 
tology. 



310 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Two extremes of rate of evolution are exemplified by the fresh-water 
mollusca on the one hand and the placental mammals on the other. 
The evolution of the former has been slower than that of any other 
animals of equal biological rank, and the evolution of the latter more 
rapid than that of any others, even among- their contemporary forms 
of life. 

Applying the foregoing statements to the methods which have been 
adopted in the construction of the geological scale and in the recogni- 
tion of its divisions, we observe that for the portion which may reason- 
ably be assumed to represent fully the first half of geological time the 
work has been accomplished entirely by means of marine invertebrate 
fossils. These only were available for that purpose, but they were 
sufficient. We further find that the remainder of the Paleozoic portion 
of the scale was constructed by means of marine invertebrate remains 
with only the auxiliary aid of plant and fish remains. The latter aid 
was not really necessary, because the succession and completeness of 
Paleozoic marine life was unbroken, and the remains which those forms 
of lite afforded constitute of themselves abundant material for charac- 
terizing consecutive divisions of the scale. 

The opinion formerly prevailed among geologists that at the close of 
Paleozoic time there was a material and general break in the succes- 
sion of marine life coincident with that which was assumed to have 
taken place in the case of land plants, and which was also assumed to 
have been at least approximately coincident with the introduction of 
dinosaurs, birds, and nonplacental mammals. 

It is now known, however, that the succession of marine invertebrate 
life was as complete from Paleozoic to Mesozoic time and from Mesozoic 
to Cenozoic time as it was for any other portions of the geological scale. 
Furthermore the remains of Mesozoic and Cenozoic marine inverte- 
brates are as sufficient for the characterization of those divisions of 
the scale as are remains of marine invertebrates for the Paleozoic por- 
tion. 

It is thus apparent that there has been a continuous and full succes- 
sion of marine invertebrate life through the whole time range of the geo- 
logical scale, and that its remains are as sufficient as any fossil remains 
can be for the characterization of ever} 7 one of its divisions wherever 
they are represented by fossiliferous rocks of marine origin. Further- 
more, from the beginning to the end of geological time, there has been 
a good degree of uniformity of the rate of development of marine inver- 
tebrates, and the reciprocal relation of the various kinds to one another, 
so far as concerns its bearing upon geological questions, has always 
been intimate and of a comparatively uniform character. Therefore, the 
paleontological record which they have produced is to a great degree 
complete in itself and harmonious in all its parts. 

On the other hand it is apparent that the longest known time range 
of the fossil remains of any of the other kinds of animals or of land 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 311 

plants falls very far short of the full range of the scale, while the range 
of each of the more important of these kinds is at best through only a 
portion of the later half of the scale. Besides this, the incongruity 
which has been shown to have existed between the different kinds of 
these nonmarine and land animals and land plants respectively, and the 
difference in the rate of evolution of each, were such that their respec- 
tive time ranges could not have been so coraplemental of one another 
as to constitute of themselves a consecutive and harmonious paleonto- 
logical record for that portion of the geological scale in which they oc- 
cur. At least a record thus produced could not have been so complete 
as is that which has been produced for the whole scale by the combined 
ranges of the different kinds of marine invertebrates. 

If the fossil remains of the nonmarine and land faunas and land 
floras can not be used conjointly as a standard for the characterization 
and recognition of the divisions of the geological scale it is evident 
that none of the kinds which they embrace can be separately so used. 
It has been claimed by some authors that, although their complexity of 
structure was the predisposing cause, the exciting cause of the re- 
markably rapid progressive, and the wide differential, evolution of the 
placental mammals was their sensitiveness to physical changes which 
w T ere so slight that they produced little or no effect upon associated 
faunas. They further claim that this sensitiveness to slight physical 
changes has made the remains of those animals more valuable as indi- 
cators of the divisions of geological time than are any other fossil 
remains. 

Whatever may have been the cause of the rapid changes which took 
place among those mammals it is true that their remains are often 
valuable for distinguishing subordinate horizons which other fossils do 
not clearly indicate. It is plain, however, that a chronological classi- 
fication based upon such rapidly changing forms alone will not har- 
monize with that which we are obliged to use for all that great earlier 
portion of the scale in the strata of which such remains do not occur, 
nor with the continuation of that classification which is necessarily 
used for the remaining portion of the scale. 

If the remains which the placental mammals have left had shown 
any such approach to a direct .succession of faunas as have the marine, 
and especially the nonmarine, invertebrates they would be much more 
valuable in the wayjust mentioned than they are now found to be. That 
is, there are great faunal breaks among themselves so far as their suc- 
cession is known, and an especially wide faunal hiatus between the ear- 
liest ot them and the nonplacental mammals and the dinosaurs which 
preceded them, while the known succession or continuous existence of 
species of gill-bearing mollusks show that the stratigraphic record is 
continuous. 

For example, certain species of gill-bearing fresh water mollusks are 
found associated with dinosaurian remains in the interior region of 



312 REPORT OF. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

North America, and the same species have been found in an overlying 
formation which is characterized by an abundant placental mammalian 
fauna. Such a survival of gill-bearing mollusks implies the continua- 
tion of a congenial aquatic habitat, continuous sedimentation, and a 
continuous record of time. In this way specific molluscan forms are 
found to have bridged the gap between characteristic mesozoic, and 
equally characteristic ceriozoic vertebrate forms so far as the existence 
of the latter has been proved by the discovery of fossil remains. It is, 
therefore, e\ ident that neither the exceptionally rapid rate of evolution 
like that of the placental mammals, nor the exceptionally slow rate, 
like that of the fresh water mollusca, can be used independently as a 
standard of geological time. 

It has been shown on preceding pages that it is the general advance- 
ment in biological rank for all organic forms and for the whole of geo- 
logical time that constitutes the ideal ultimate standard of measure 
for that time. It does not necessarily follow, however, that the geo- 
logical scale is actually based upon the combined average rate >f 
advancement of all those forms because this is a factor which can not 
be definitely ascertained. Still, in all cases it is necessary to apply 
that idea so far as is practicable. 

In view of the facts recorded in the preceding paragraphs we must 
necessarily place the highest estimate of chronological value upon the 
fossil remains of those kinds which have existed under the most nearly 
uniform conditions through the whole of geological time, and which 
give evidence of the most nearly uniform advancement in biological 
rank". Accordingly the remains of marine invertebrates possess legit- 
imate claims to a higher estimate of chronological value than do those 
of any other kinds of animals or of plants. 

It is true that the rate of development in biological rank of marine 
invertebrates does not embrace i he entire advance for the whole animal 
kingdom because it begins in the scale as it is now known with many 
highly organized forms and ends without including the vertebrates, 
but this fact does not affect any of the necessary elements of their 
superior chronological value which have just been mentioned. The fol- 
lowing summary of facts relating to the marine invertebrates show their 
principal claims to the highest estimate of value in characterizing the 
divisions of the geological scale and in determining the geological ago 
of the strata in which their remains are found. 

The marine invertebrates embrace five of the six subkingdoms or 
branches of the animal kingdom. 

They have coexisted in every stage of geological time while the 
known time-range of other animals, as well as of land plants, has been 
very much less. 

The preservation of their remains having been a natural consequence 
of the character of their habitat they are faunally more complete than 
are those of any land animals, and for the same reason they are florally 
more complete than are remains of land plants. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. . 813 

They all lived under the same <>r closely similar conditions, a ud those 

conditions wore more nearly uniform throughout all geological time 
than were those under which any other forms of lite existed. Their 
remains have, therefore, produced a more nearly uniform chronological 
record. 

Their relations to one another were wholly congruous, while the rela- 
tions of all of them to all nonmarine faunas and land floras w;is re 

or less incongruous, and in many cases extremely so. 

The formations containing their remains are for the whole world and 
the whole of the geological scale far in excess of those which contain 
the remains of any other forms of life, especially the remains of land 
plants and land animals. 



314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



VI.— CORRELATIVE GEOLOGY AM) ITS CRITERIA. 

The term correlative geology is not in common use but it is .adopted 
as a present convenience in discussing the correlation of assemblages 
of strata as divisions or subdivisions of the geological scale as it is 
developed in separate regions, and the identification of formations 
within one and the same district or region. As here used the term 
correlation refers to geological systems or other comprehensive series 
of stratified rocks which occur in different and more or less widely sep- 
arated parts of the world between which parts there is no physical 
continuity of strata, or none find it is possible to discover. Correla- 
tion applies to general geology, identification to local or regional inves- 
tigations. 

The latter may be discussed under two heads, direct and relative. 
Direct identification applies to formations the characteristics of which 
at one or more localities have been ascertained, and as these are 
naturally of limited geographical extent* the application is similarly 
restricted. 

If a formation were exposed at the surface throughout its whole 
geographiral extent its identity at all points would be self-evident, but 
all formations being more or less covered from view by one another or 
by surface debris, they are usually accessible for study only where 
they have been corraded by drainage streams or brought to the sur- 
face by movements of the earth's crust where their exposure has 
been effected by subaerial erosion and denudation. It is at such 
localities only that they can be satisfactorily identified, but such iden- 
tification implies the actual or original continuity of the formation 
between all the localities at which the identification has been made. 

It is the identification of formations and not their characterization 
which is here discussed. The latter, as indicated in Essay n, must be 
determined by original studies at one or more localities from a variety 
of data, chief among which are the biological, although the physical 
are always indispensable, while identification refers to a recognition of 
those characteristics elsewhere. 

Specific identity of fossils affords the surest test of the direct identity 
of a formation at localities between which its physical continuity can 
not be traced, but lithological similarity, general evidence of liomogeny 
and other physical indications are often eflieient aids in such identifica- 
tion, and in case of failure of biological evidence they are often in a 
good degree satisfactory. 

By the term relative identification is meant the recognition of the 
proper place of a given formation in a series the taxonomic order of 



* The term formation is herein used in accordance with the restricted definition 
and the characterization which are given in Essay II. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 315 

which has been determined by the previous study of formations which 
have been directly identified. Therefore, while direct identification is 
coniined to the geological limits of separate formations, relative identi- 
fication may extend throughout a large region by the overlapping of 
formations. Such a recognition of the taxonoraic position of formations 
is usually the direct result of empirical study of a given series within a 
limited region, but it is often the result of those philosophical studies 
which have been made in connection with the construction of the great 
geological scale, especially in cases where a wide time-hiatus exists 
between formations.* The latter, however, approaches correlation in 
character. 

Identification, except in the relative cases justmentioned, is always the 
result of empirical studies; but correlation is more philosophically deter- 
mined. The latter not only implies the existence of closely similar 
biological characteristics in systems or series of formations in different 
and widely separated parts of the world, but in each case it has refer- 
ence to a similarity of relation to preceding and succeeding series of 
formations respectively. That is, correlation relates to the serial recog- 
nition of the various divisions of the geological scale in more or less 
widely separated parts of the world, and is based wholly upon biology, 
those divisions coinciding with stages in the evolutional progress of 
development of organic forms which has occurred during geological 
time. 

In the practical study of the structural geology of a region the prin- 
cipal use of correlation is to apply universally acceptable names to the 
different groups of formation. That is, the structural geology of great 
regions, or even of the greater part if not the whole of continents, may 
be minutely and comprehensively studied and all the stratified rocks 
accurately classified in chronological order by means of direct and rela- 
tive identification of formations and without necessary reference to 
their correlation with those of any other part of the world except as a 
means of detecting such cases of wide time-hiatus between formations 
as are not otherwise clearly revealed. 

Because fossil remains constitute the principal criteria in the practi- 
cal identification of formations it is desirable in this connection to con- 
sider the relative value of the different kinds for this purpose, although 
the subject has been briefly discussed and frequently referred to in 
the preceding essays. 

Fossils being the remains of animals and plants most of the princi- 
pal kinds of which lived under different physical conditions, some of 
them have a more direct relation than others to the formations in 
which they are found. Therefore they differ materially as to their 

What I have here designated as relative identification has often been by. authors 
included under the head of correlation, I also have done so in Bulletin I'. S. Geo- 
logical Survey, No. 82, ]>i» 17-25, bui the more clearly to state the principles involved 
I herein restrict the use of that term as indicated in preceding paragraphs. 



316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

relative value in the identification of formations. Naturally the re- 
mains of aquatic faunas exceed all others in value for this purpose 
because the faunas not only found a congenial habitat in the waters 
in which were deposited the formations that now contain their fossil 
remains, but they could have existed in no other. Their whole life 
history, with the minor exception, of migratory fishes, especially such 
as entered nonniarinc waters, was therefore intimately and wholly con- 
nected with the production of those formations. 

A large proportion of all the formations which are characterized by 
the remains of aquatic faunas contain none of land faunas and floras, 
but in other formations remains of the latter kind are found com 
mingled with those of aquatic faunas. In all such cases the remains 
of land faunas and floras reached their intombment by accidental 
means while the intombment of the remains of aquatic faunas was a 
natural result of the character of their habitat. Moreover, all the mem- 
bers of extinct aquatic faunas which possessed fossilizable parts are 
likely to have been represented by fossil remains, because in their in- 
tombment they were not separated from their habitat, while the intomb- 
ment of all remains of land faunas and floras was not only accidental 
but necessarily partial as regards the faunas and floras from which 
they were derived.* 

Again, the existence of every extinct aquatic fauna had not only an 
intimate connection with the conditions which produced the formation 
in which the remains are found, but it began its existence as a fauna 
with the establishment of those conditions and was extinguished as 
such when the conditions were changed, and largely or wholly in conse- 
quence of the change. It might easily, and evidently often did, happen 
that changes of physical conditions which caused the extinction of one 
aquatic fauna and the introduction of a succeeding one would not mate- 
rially affect the continued existence of the fauna and flora of the adja- 
cent land which were contemporary with the extinguished fauna. In 
such a case the land fauna or flora began its existence before, or con- 
tinued it after, that of the aquatic fauna, or its existence may have 
extended continuously from the epoch before to that after the one in 
wlrch the aquatic fauna lived. In such a case also, while the aquatic 
fauna was characteristic of only one formation and one epoch, the land 
fauna and flora may have characterized two or three formations and as 
many epochs. Furthermore, geologists sometimes find evidence from 
the association of their remains with those of aquatic faunas that land 
faunas and floras were repeatedly and materially changed during a 
period within which aquatic faunas of the same region suffered com- 
paratively little change. 

It is true, as mentioned in those paragraphs of essay II, in which 
methods of defining and characterizing formations are discussed, that 



*See pages 254-261. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 317 

Ibssil remains of certain kinds of land animals and plants may be and 
often arc found only within the limits of a given formation, ami in that 
respect they may bo regarded as characteristic of it; but that docs not 
affect the accuracy of the foregoing statements. 

The foregoing comparisons of the relative value of fossil remains of 
aquatic and terrestrial animals can not be of unlimited application be- 
cause no remains of terrestrial animals have been found in the forma- 
tions of the earlier geological periods, and it is generally believed that 
none existed then. Indeed, such comparisons are of little applicability 
in the case of any formations earlier than the Mesozoic, and they mainly 
pertain to tin- Cenozoic. 

The facts mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs have far-reaching 
significance other than that which directly relates to the identification 
of formations. They arc to be again mentioned, but only for the pur- 
pose of showing that whatever of value fossil remains of land animals 
and plants may possess other than that which has been referred to, 
they are, as a rule, of much less value in identifying and characterizing 
formations than are those of aquatic animals. 

Marine waters having always been of world-wide extent, and marine 
conditions more nearly uniform or subject to far less vicissitude than 
either nonmarine or terrestrial conditions, the fossil remains of the 
marine faunas naturally constitute a better medium for a continous 
chronological record by organic evolution than do those of terrestrial 
faunas and floras or those of fresh-water faunas. This fact, however, 
does not make the fossil remains of fresh-water faunas any less trust- 
worthy than are those of marine faunas for the identification of the 
formations which they characterize.* 

With the exception of fishes and a few mammals and reptiles verte- 
brates of the kinds whose remains are available in geological studies 
are mostly land animals, while those of invertebrates of the kinds whose 
remains are thus available are mostly aquatic animals. The superior 
value of the latter has already been pointed out ; but it should be added 
that remains of fishes, in case of equally complete faunal representation, 
are of no less value than are those of aquatic invertebrates. The migra- 
tory habits of a greater or less proportion of fishes, however, has in 
some cases caused their remains to be commingled with those of more 
than one fauna and to be deposited in more than one formation. 

The remains of other vertebrate aquatic animals are sometimes avail- 
able in the identification of formations, but they are generally of less 
value than are the remains of fishes, because the aerial respiration and 
amphibious habits of most of them generally restricted their range within 
narrower limits. Furthermore, their range in geological time is even 
less extended than that of fishes. That is, air-breathing vertebrates 
are not yet known to have existed earlier than the Carboniferous, and 

* For discussions <>t this subject see pages 281-283. 



318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

during' that age they were comparatively unimportant. Although -fishes 
existed earlier than other vertebrates, their remains afford little material 
for comparison with those of invertebrates in earlier rocks than those 
of Devonian age. Therefore the identification of all those earlier forma- 
tions, comprising a large part of the whole geological series, must be 
made by means of invertebrate remains alone. 

When considering the relative value of fossil remains of animals and 
plants in the identification of formations, only terrestrial plants* are 
worthy of notice, because of the low grade of aquatic plants proper, and 
because our definite knowledge of terrestrial plants extends no farther 
back in geological time than the Devonian. Furthermore, their remains 
being very rare in rocks of that age, a satisfactory comparison of plant 
remains with those of animals is necessarily restricted to formations of 
the Carboniferous and later ages. 

Again, the disparity of value between the remains of aquatic and 
terrestrial faunas, which has already been mentioned, is not only 
equally great between those aquatic faunas and laud floras, but for 
reasons stated in Essay i plant remains in all cases much less com- 
pletely represent the floras from which they were derived than do the 
remains of aquatic animals the faunas in which they originated. 

From the foregoing statements it is seen that, although fossils in all 
cases constitute not only much the most, but usually the only, trust- 
worthy criteria for such identification of format ions as is indispensable 
in the study of structural geology, the various kinds differ materially 
as to their relative value. This value, however, has no necessary rela- 
tion to that which they may possess as indicators of geological time or 
of the correlation of the strata containing them with those of other 
parts of the world. The two values are distinct, although one kind of 
fossil remains may often possess both. 

Other criteria of identification than those of fossil remains were 
briefly referred to in a preceding paragraph as being chiefly homogeny 
and lithological similarity, both of which are valuable aids when pale- 
ontological criteria are deficient, and both may often be relied upon in 
cases of the absence of those criteria. Except in the more or less con- 
stant use of lithological characteristics, that ought always to be made 
in connection with the biological identification of formations, those 
characteristics are at best of limited applicability as criteria, and they 
are available only in either direct or indirect relation to biological cri- 
teria. Their indirect availability is that which has just been referred 
to. Their direct availability is mainly in connection with what in a 
preceding paragraph has been designated as relative identification, be- 
cause it can be made only with reference to some one or more of already 
known biological horizons. 

Sometimes the relative strati graphical position of a single unfossilifer- 
ous sedimentary formation may be determined by means of its relation to 



Palustral plants are included in this designation. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 319 

those which underlie, and overlie it and which have been biologically 
identified, or the relative age of a formation of volcanic origin intercalated 
between known fossiliferous formations may 1 >e thus determined. Again, 
there maybe a great series of unfossiliferous stratified rocks, such as is 
the pre-Cambrian, the divisions of which are identifiable by means of 
lithological criteria aided by the general evidence of homogeny. 

In the case of single unfossiliferous sedimentary formations such as 
have just been referred to, their relative identity is determinable by the 
underlying and overlying fossiliferous formations. The same is true in 
case of the formations of volcanic origin which have also been referred 
to, the claim formerly made that the geological age of this kind of rocks 
can be determined by the mineral composition having been generally 
abandoned. The geological age of the pre-Cambrian formations also 
have not been determined by any inherent evidence, but only by their 
ascertained stratigraphic relation to the fossiliferous Cambrian rocks. 
That is, their geological age or relative identification could be ascer- 
tained only by reference to biological criteria. 

While fossil remains unquestionably afford the most trustworthy and 
often the only means of either direct or indirect identification of forma- 
tions, in the absence of these means the geologist often reaches conclu- 
sions in this respect by methods of reasoning that it would be difficult 
even for himself to formulate, and these conclusions are valuable in 
proportion to his acquirements and experience. Among these less clearly 
definable methods is that which takes cognizance of homogeny; that 
is, of a method in connection with which certain inherent lithological 
and stratigraphical characteristics, which are possessed by a formation 
or series of strata in one part of a given region under investigation, are 
accepted as evidence that it had a common origin with a formation or 
series presenting similar characteristics in another part of the same 
region. Such a conclusion necessarily implies that originally there was 
physical continuity of similar strata between such localities, and that it 
has either been destroyed or obscured. 

This method of identifying formations is one of minor importance as 
compared with that which is based upon fossil remains, but unfortu- 
nately it has, especially within the last few years, been adopted by cer- 
tain geologists in charge of important works almost to the entire exclu- 
sion of paleontological considerations. Although it can not be denied 
that in the hands of an experienced and broad minded investigator this 
method of identifying formations is of great value, the fact remains that 
some of the most grievous mistakes that have ever thrown discredit 
upon geological investigation have occurred by its adoption to the 
exclusion of paleontological evidence. 

The term correlation, as restricted by the preceding definition and 
distinguished from identification, is applied to a comparison of the 
stages and substages of the geological scale as they are respectively 
recognizable in distinctly separate regions. Such regions as are referred 



320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

to are now separated from one another by intervening broad bodies of 
water beneath which there may or may not have ever been strati- 
graphieal continuity, or by terrestrial conditions which have made it 
impossible to truce such continuity if it ever existed. 

Thus, while correlation in this restricted sense is usually confined to 
a comparison of great series of stratified rocks as they occur on sepa- 
rate continents, it is sometimes quite as applicable to different parts of 
one and the same continent as is the case, for example, with the east- 
ern and western portions of North America. 

In considering the subject of correlation as thus restricted, we iind 
that it not only depends quite as fully upon the study of fossil remains 
as does the identification of formations, but having reference to regions 
too distinctly separate from one another to have recognizable strati- 
graphical continuity between them, such questions as those pertaining 
to physical characteristics and identity are eliminated. We also find 
that the manner of dependence upon fossil remains in the two classes 
of cases is different; that is, in the one case it is mainly specific iden- 
tification that is relied upon, and in the other reliance is placed only 
upon the recognition of various general fauna! ami floral types, such as 
are referred to on pages 290-300. 

As was stated in Essay n, formations being physical units of local, 
but not universal, stratigraphic classification, the term identification is 
especially appropriate when referring to studies of their relation to one 
another in the held. The determination of correlation is also in some 
sense an act of identification; that is, it is the identification, or, more 
properly speaking, the recognition of the divisions or subdivisions of 
the great geological scale in different and distinctly separate parts of 
the world. The fact that the divisions and subdivisions of the scale 
may thus be more or less completely recognized being fully admitted 
by all geologists, the only question that need be discussed in that con- 
nection relates to the manner of their characterization, the distinctness 
of their limitation, the completeness of their representation, and to 
synchronism or contemporaneity and liomotaxy. 

The idea of correlation presupposes a standard, and as every standard 
must be either absolute or conventional it is uecessary to consider what 
must be the character of one by which correlation as herein defined 
maybe recognized, because upon this depends an intelligible discussion 
of the subject. If the standard of correlation is an absolute one, there 
can be no question as to the dehniteness and completeness of its appli- 
cability in all cases and in all parts of the world where the necessary 
observations can be made. If, however, the standard is a conventional 
one, its recognition as such implies more or less uncertainty as to the 
definiteness and completeness of its universal applicability, but a con- 
ventional standard may be based upon such an array of admissible facts 
that in all cases where those facts are recognizable uncertainty and 
indetiniteness in its practical application are reduced to comparatively 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 321 

narrow limits. This, briefly, is my conception of the true character of 
the only standard of correlation that may legitimately be used, because 
it is the only one that agrees with a rational interpretation of natural 
laws. 

It has, however, been the custom of a large proportion of geologists 
to regard the geological scale as it lias been established in Europe as 
the absolute standard for the whole earth. A necessary consequence 
of this view is their assumption that the systems which physically con 
stitute that scale, and at least most of the divisions of those systems, 
may not oidy be recognized, but as clearly defined in all parts of the 
earth as they are in Europe, if in those parts contemporaneous deposits 
were made and still remain intact. 

While fully accepting the fact of the existence of a rational standard 
of correlation and of its great practical value, it is my purpose to oppose 
the idea of its absoluteness which is still entertained by many geolo- 
gists, and which was formerly entertained by all. Before proceeding 
with those remarks, however, it is desirable to inquire briefly as to the 
origin of that idea and the probable reason of its survival, and to refer 
to other ideas which were entertained by the early geologists but which 
have long been abandoned. 

One of the abandoned ideas referred to relates to the recognition of 
lithological identity as a criterion of correlation. This idea is indicated 
in various ways by the writings of those early authors and to some 
extent by their application of names to the divisions of the scale — such, 
for example, as Old Eed Sandstone and New Red Sandstone* for the 
Devonian and Triassic systems, respectively. Another relates to the 
degree of consolidation or compactness that sedimentary rocks have 
acquired, and still another to the degree of general disturbance which 
they have suffered. As already stated, those pioneers regarded these 
conditions as indicating relative age and also as being an aid to litho- 
logical identification as a criterion of correlation. 

These ideas were abandoned because they were found to be untenable 
even from the standpoint of their originators, and yet they are scarcely 
less rational than is that which ascribes absoluteness to the European 
scale as a standard of correlation. The only cause that I can suggest 
for the survival of the latter idea while the former ideas have been 
abandoned is a general conservative disinclination of the mind to adjust 
itself to new methods of thought, especially if the old methods have 
been rendered plausible by artificial adjustment to indisputable facts, 
and are intricate by the complex nature of the subject. The idea of 
the chronological value in the study of systematic geology of litholog- 
ical character and conditions seems to have been abandoned not only 
because it was fallacious but because the portion of the subject to 

* The Permian was by the early geologists sometimes included with the Triassic 
under the name New Red Sandstone. 
H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 21 



322 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

which it pertains not being complex the idea was readily dismissed. 
The idea of the absoluteness of the geological scale now in general use 
as a standard for the whole earth pertains to an unusually complex 
subject, involving various concurrent lines of systematic thought. It 
was probably for this reason that it was not fully dislodged eveu by 
the great biological revolution which has been referred to in the last 
essay, notwithstanding the fact that its subject is essentially a bio- 
logical one. 

Originally the idea of correlation involved that of actual and com- 
plete contemporaneity. That is, in accordance with their belief in 
special creations the early geologists assumed that every fannal and 
floral type, as well as every species, having been specially created* each 
one of those types which characterize any given stage or substage of 
the geological scale was simultaneously deposited. They also believed 
that all the divisions and subdivisions of the geological scale were 
divinely ordained and sharply definable, and their acceptance of that 
scale as an absolute universal standard of correlation was a necessary 
result of that belief. Notwithstanding the great revolution in methods 
of biological thought and practice which has been referred to, paleon- 
tological literature abounds with proof that the idea of absoluteness of 
correlation is still held even by authors who ostensibly reject all the 
beliefs which alone could have given origin to such an idea. 

Sufficient reasons have been given why formations as such can not 
be considered in discussing correlation, but I again refer to the fact for 
the purpose of emphasizing the statements that true correlation is es- 
sentially a biological and not a physical matter, that its application is 
necessarily restricted to divisions of the geological scale that are more 
comprehensive than those which may be represented by even the great- 
est of the formations as they are defined in Essay n, and that in the 
determination of such correlation specific identity of fossils can rarely 
be considered. It is therefore necessary to consider what divisions of 
the scale may be satisfactorily correlated and what are the character 
and attributes of the biological forms that constitute the criteria of 
their correlation. 

Naturally the larger divisions. of the scale are more readily recogniz- 
"able than are the smaller, because, besides other reasons, the fauna! 
and floral characteristics of the former are more general than are those 
of the latter, and their vertical range also is greater. Thus the sys- 
tems, or stages, as I have designated them on preceding pages when 
discussing the geological scale, are readily recognizable in widely sep- 
arated parts of the world by means of more or less numerous general 
types of fossil forms, while the characteristic types of their divisions are 
fewer and more special. By means of those more general indications 
the whole series of systems from the Cambrian to the Tertiary, inclu- 



* See pages 291-299. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 323 

sive, are recognizable in North America with as much, certainty as they 
are in Europe, although some of them, the Triassic and Jurassic, for 
example, have not been so completely recognized. 

On the other hand the recognition of the substagcs, or division of 
systems, which are more or less clearly definable in Europe, has in no 
case been made with rational satisfaction in North America, although 
many geologists have attempted their full recognition on this conti- 
nent, and some have even attempted that of secondary divisions of 
systems not only in North America but in other parts of the world, by 
means of their European characteristics. 

I do not mean to say that at least some of the more general divisions 
of systems are not distinguishable in North America as well as in 
Europe, such for example as the Upper, Middle and Lower Devonian, 
Upper and Lower Cretaceous, etc. I also do not mean to say that cer- 
tain of the faunal and floral types which characterize divisions or sub- 
stages, such as those of the European Cretaceous from the Neocoiniau 
to the Danian, inclusive, as well as similar divisions of other systems, 
have not beeu discovered in North American strata and in those of 
other parts of the world.* 

I claim, however, that while the systems are satisfactorily recogniz- 
able as already stated, their upper and lower limits are often illy de- 
finable, and that they often do not accord with the recognized limits in 
Europe, and that the same is also the case with the large general divi- 
sions of systems referred to. Furthermore, I claim that in case of the 
presence in North American strata of types which characterize any of 
those divisions of the European Cretaceous and other systems just 
referred to they are so often commingled with certain of those types 
which characterize one or more other divisions of the same system 
there that they can not have the same chronological significance on the 
two continents. That is, types which are characteristic of different 
divisions of a system in Europe, and which occur there in a certain 
order of succession, are known to occur in American divisions of the 
same system in a different order of succession. It is therefore evident 
that the presence in a group of American strata of any one, or even 
more, of the types which characterize a given division of a system in 
Europe does not prove the absolute identity of that division in Amer- 
ica. 

Although, as before stated, all the systems of the European scale have 
been satisfactorily recognized in North America, their upper and lower 
limits are not only often illy definable and sometimes discordant with 
those of corresponding systems in Europe, but those limits have been 
designated as occurring ai different horizons by those geologists re- 
spectively who rely upon different kinds of fossil remains. For exam- 



* Although I more particularly compare North American strata with those of Eu- 
rope, and oftener refer to the Cretaceous system than to others', I assume that tht 
facts and principles involved are of world-wide application. 



324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

pie, abundant remains of a flora, consisting- of types which in Europe 
are characteristically Tertiary, are found in American strata, which 
are shown by all other known evidence, which is abundant, to be of 
Cretaceous age. Again nonplacental mammalian remains of generally 
accepted Jurassic types are found in American strata which other 
evidence shows can not be of earlier age than the uppermost ( Creta- 
ceous, if, indeed, they are not of Tertiary age. Associated with these 
mammalian remains are those of dinosaurs which are so characteristic 
of that great subclass in its prime, and show so little evidence of its 
decadence that when they were first discovered they were believed to 
be of Jurassic age. 

The cause of this association of types in the strata of certain sys- 
tems, or in those of certain of its divisions as they occur in some parts 
of the world with those which characterize other systems or others of 
their divisions in another part, must be sought in the facts and princi- 
ples stated in the propositions and remarks on pages 203 to 300, which 
propositions have been presented for the purpose of such reference. 
From the facts thus stated and referred to it may be seen that such a 
commingling of types, so far from being an abnormal condition, is 
wholly natural and what ought to be expected. It is thus shown that 
the average rate of progressive evolution which produced the types 
that characterize the different systems and their respective divisions 
was not the same in all parts of the world for each of the different 
branches of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, nor the same for the 
same part of the world during all the time those branches have 
coexisted. 

In view of the foregoing statements of facts and principles the idea 
held by the early geologists, as well as by some of those now living, 
that identity of fossil types proves synchronism or exact contempora- 
neity of origin of any two or more series of strata containing them, is 
quite untenable. The facts which have been presented also suggest 
that the term hoinotaxy must be used with some degree of latitude as 
to its application to the subdivisions of systems, because the order of 
sequence in the occurrence ot the types which characterize them, 
respectively, in one part ot the world is in another part sometimes par- 
tially reversed or partially interchanged. That is, the taxonomy of 
those subdivisions as biologically indicated is not the same for all parts 
of the world. 

Although the toregoing statements contain expressions of earnest 
dissent from certain views which have been more or less prevalent, it 
is not to be inferred that I discard any of the legitimate principles 
upon which correlative and historical geology are based. Indeed, the 
evidence is incontestable that the successive stages of the geological 
scale were in a general but an effective way characterized by peculiar 
secularly developed groups of organic types, and that those types have 
wonderfully wide distribution within their respective stages. With 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 325 

reference to such characterization it is the adequacy of those types to 
sharply define the limits of stages or to clearly identify substages in 
widely separated parts of the world that I deny. This denial, of course, 
implies what has before been stated, that the geological scale now in 
general use is not an absolute standard for the correlation of the strati- 
fied rocks of the whole earth, but I repeat what was said iu connection 
with that statement, that this scale is unquestionably the best that it 
has been possible to devise, and make the additional statement thai it 
needs adjustment rather than material change.* 

The foregoing discussions having required frequent reference to cer- 
tain erroneous views which have prevailed upon the subject of corre- 
lation that subject has necessarily been somewhat antagonistically 
presented. That is, its scope has been to a large extent negatively 
rather than positively indicated. 

It has been shown that the presence in widely separated parts of the 
world of all the systems of the geological scale, as well as of some of 
their larger divisions, has been demonstrated by the labors of a multi- 
tude of geologists and that the fact of correlation is therefore not to 
be called in question. The principal questions which have been raised 
concern the scope of correlation or the limitation of the assemblages 
of strata the relation of which to respective divisions of the scale is 
more or less obvious. These questions are of practical application in 
the study of the structural geology of any part of the world other 
than that in which the geological scale wns established, but they are of 
such a character that they must be conventionally rather than arbi- 
trarily determined. 

For example, iu discussing the questions which have arisen concern- 
ing the earlier and later limits of the systems of the geological scale in 
North America the difference of opinion as to those limits have been 
wider and more various with regard to the later systeais than to the 
earlier. This is because of the greater number and variety of the kinds 
of fossil remains to be considered in such discussions of the later sys- 
tems, their difference from the earlier in this respect being plainly 
indicated by the table on Plate xiv, and by the accompanying statement s 
relating to it. It is therefore evident that in reaching a conclusion as 
to the limitation of any of these systems, or of any of their subdivisions, 
it is necessary to take into consideration all available facts, physical 
as well as well biological. It is equally evident that it is the duty 
of every American geologist to hold in abeyance any final decision as 
to the correlation of the groui>s of strata which he may study with 
divisions of the European scale until all such facts have been duly and 

"Although the views concerning correlation which arc enunciated in this essay 
are opposed to those which were generally held by the early geologists, sonic of 
tnose pioneers held views which are much in accord with those herein advocated. 
Sec, for example, de la Heche, Henry T. : .Sketch of a (Jlassilication of the European 
Kocks. Am. Jour. ScL, 1st ser. Vol. xvill, pp. liG-37, 1830. 



326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

justly considered. In .short, the idea of absoluteness in such cases is as 
much out of place as is the assertion or recognition of personal authority. 

Although the remarks in the last paragraph refer directly to North 
American geology and geologists, they are equally applicable to other 
parts of the world when reference is made to the scale as represented by 
the European rocks. 

Notwithstanding the great excellence of the scale now in general use 
and the fact that so little change has been made in it since it was first 
devised by the early geologists, the future progress of geological science 
will demand modifications the necessity for which will be especially 
urgent when the true character of correlation for all the principal parts 
of the earth has been ascertained. Hitherto correlation has been inves- 
tigated with the single purpose of adjusting the series of formations 
which occur in each of the various parts of the world to the scale now 
in use, but although its general applicability to that purpose is not to be 
questioned the ultimate result of the study of correlation will be to 
modify this scale and adjust it to the systematic geology of the whole 
earth. That is, the scheme of stratigraphic classification which has 
been the main factor in adjusting the elements of systematic geology, 
must in turn be itself adjusted to the great system which it will have 
been the principal agent in producing. 

There is another subject which properly pertains to correlative 
geology, but which does not come under the head of identification of 
formations and only in part under that of correlation as the term has 
been defined and the subject discussed on preceding pages. It relates 
to the great obscurity or absence of evidence of chronological relation 
between the marine and freshwater deposits which may occur upon one 
and the same continent, and also to the equally great uncertainty as 
to the correlation with one another of the nonmarine deposits of widely 
separated parts of the earth. 

When the geologist is seeking to systematically classify the forma- 
tions of a continent or region which consist of both marine and fresh 
water deposits, among the physical facts with which he is confronted is 
that in no case can a formation of one of these kinds be .continuous 
with one of the other kind because they were necessarily deposited in 
separate bodies of water. Therefore there can in no case be any direct 
physical proof of contemporaneity of a fresh-water with a marine forma 
tion, and there can be no physical indication of chronological relation 
between them except in case of observable superposition. These re- 
marks are made with special reference to intracontinental fresh-water 
deposits on the one hand and border-region marine deposits on the 
other. 

He is also confronted with the biological fact stated on preceding- 
pages that the fossil faunas pertaining to fresh-water formations are 
so different from those pertaining to mari e formations, and the two 
kinds are so incongruous in their respective characters, even in case 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 327 

of actual contemporaneity of origin, that they can not be used as con- 
current chronological evidence. 

The latter statement applies chiefly to the remains of aquatic faunas, 
but the case is little if any changed by the association with them of 
remains of land faunas and floras unless such faunas and floras should 
be represented in the fresh-water as well as the marine formation. 
Such association and identity are to be regarded as the only direct evi- 
dence of contemporaneity of a fresh- water and marine deposit. All 
other evidence is indirect and of more or less uncertain value. 

Such a dual commingling of remains of a land fauna and flora with 
those of aquatic faunas implies that the two bodies of water in which 
the commingling took place were separated by a land area, the whole 
breadth of which was occupied by the fauna and flora represented by 
the remains. It also implies that those remains reached their intomb- 
ment in the sediments of both bodies of water in the manner described 
in Essay i. It is a fact, however, as already pointed out, that re- 
mains of land animals and plants are very rarely found in marine de- 
posits, even in case there is reason to believe they lived abundantly in 
the vicinity of the waters in which those deposits were made. This 
circumstance greatly lessens the chances of discovering direct proof of 
contemporaneity of fresh water and marine formations. 

The indirect evidence of contemporaneity of fresh water and marine 
formations which may occur upon one and the same continent is in part 
that which is afforded by the position of each in their order of succes- 
sion in a series of formations of known geological age, and in part that 
which pertains to the general subject of correlation. I have already 
shown that the best of the evidence which pertains to that subject, 
especially when applied to so small a portion of the geological scale as 
is represented by even the greatest of the fresh water formations or 
series of deposits, is of very uncertain value. I may now add that such 
evidence is still less valuable when it rests upon the remains of fresh- 
water faunas alone, because of their remarkably slow evolution, both 
progressive and differential, during the whole of that portion of geo- 
logical time in which they are known to have existed. It should also 
be stated that whatever of accuracy may have been attained in assign- 
ing the fresh water formations of Europe to their respective taxonomic 
positions in the geological scale it does not necessarily follow that fresh 
water formations upon other continents bearing closely similar faunal 
and floral fossil remains can be assigned upon such evidence alone to 
exactly the same taxonomic positions. Therefore, in attempting to cor- 
relate interior fresh water formations with border region marine forma- 
tions, such as those which occur in North America, for example, the 
geologist must, as a rule, to which no exceptions are yet known, rely 
upon general indications and cumulative evidence. 



328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



VII. CRITERIA OF PAST AQUEOUS CONDITIONS. 

Among the more conspicuous facts in geology are some of those which 
relate to the maimer of origin as well as to the original and present 
conditio!; of the sedimentary formations. These subjects have been 
discussed at some length in Essay [I, and among those discussions are 
some references to the character of the water in which each formation 
was deposited. Studies of the sedimentary formations, especially those 
made from a biological standpoint, have demonstrated that the bodies 
of water in which they were deposited were of the various kinds that 
are now known; that is. sonic were marine, some fresh, and some brack- 
ish. 

It is by no means for biological reasons alone that it is desirable to 
obtain a knowledge of the character of formerly existing bodies of water 
and of the character of their respective aquatic faunas. On the con- 
trary, such knowledge conveys important information concerning vari- 
ous subjects in general geology, notably concerning formerly existing 
physical conditions and many of the physical changes which took place 
from epoch to epoch of geological time. For example, the presence of a 
marine formation within any given geographical area shows that when 
it was deposited that area was beneath ocean level, and consequently 
that marine waters prevailed there. The presence of a nonmarine 
formation shows that land areas surrounded the body of water in which 
it was deposited and separated it more or less completely from marine 
waters. Therefore, an extensive nonmarine formation necessarily im- 
plies that a large land area, which may have been of continental ex- 
tent, surrounded the body of water in which it was deposited. 

In the present advanced state of geological knowledge the distin- 
guishing characteristics of marine formations are well understood, 
because they have been exhaustively studied by geologists, and found 
to agree iu general character with the faunas and deposits of existing 
seas, and because opportunities for the study of these formations are 
abundant in almost all parts of the world. For various reasons the 
distinguishing characteristics of nonmarine formations are generally 
not so thoroughly understood as are those of marine origin, among 
which reasons are their comparative rarity and usually their compara- 
tively small geographical extent. Usually, also, they are not so abun- 
dantly fossiliferous as are marine formations, and, therefore, the prin- 
cipal means for their characterization are often not available. More- 
over, these formations require some modification of the usual methods 
of investigation because they are themselves of different kinds, as is 
shown by inherent evidence possessed by each, and because they have 
in common certain characteristics which distinguish them from those 
of marine origin. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 329 

The facts which constitute the evidence as to the variety and char- 
acter of the no nmarine formations, and that of their distinction from 
those of marine origin, are usually well understood by those geologists 

who are also naturalists because the subject to which they relate is 
mainly biological, but they are often not so well understood by the 
general reader, nor by those who pursue their geological studies wholly 
upon physical grounds. For these reasons the following statements 
and dismissions, while they are in some respects necessarily technical, 
are, so far as practicable, expressed in an elementary manner. 

The evidence that the greater part of the sedimentary rocks of the 
earth, those which constitute the formations containing the records of 
its past biological history, are of marine origin is based almost wholly 
upon the character of their contained fossil remains, and is, as has just 
been intimated, so abundant and complete that it can not be seriously 
questioned. That is, it is evident that they were deposited either in 
oceanic waters or in those of similar saltness whose geographical extent 
were more restricted by land areas, such, for example, as the present 
oceans on the one hand, and the Mediterranean and Red seas on the 
other. All these are designated as marine deposits, and the waters in 
which they were formed are understood to have rested at that world- 
wide level which is usually termed sea level, but which is herein written 
ocean level, because in this essay the term sea is used in a somewhat 
restricted sense. 

The other sedimentary rocks were deposited in other than oceanic 
waters. Most of them so much resemble marine formations in litho 
logical and stratigraphical character, that it is only by means of the 
peculiar character of their fossil remains that it is known that their 
deposition took place either in fresh waters or in those which contained 
salt in less proportion than it is contained in oceanic waters. All these 
are designated as nonmarine deposits. They usually occupy smaller 
districts than do marine deposits but a few of them rival the latter in 
thickness and geographical extent. 

Nonmarine deposits are more varied in both character and origin 
than is indicated by the mere evidence which they may afford that salt 
was present in, or absent from, the waters in which they were accumu- 
lated, because the physical conditions were in each class of cases con- 
siderably different, ruder the head of nonmarine sedimentary depos- 
its are placed those which, from the inherent evidence they respectively 
afford, are assumed to have been formed in liuviatile, estuarine or lacus- 
trine waters, or in the waters of lagoons, bays, or inland seas. The 
first three terms just mentioned are of themselves sufficient to indicate 
that the deposits to which they are applied were laid down in formerly 
existing rivers, estuaries or lakes. There are certain other nonmarine 
deposits with which the geologist sometimes comes in contact, namely, 
those of littoral and of palustral origin. The former are produced 
along the shores of broad bodies of water and the latter in the swamps 
and shoals which frequently border the same. 



330 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

The terms lagoons and bays as here used are applied to such par- 
tially landlocked bodies of water as now exist along oceanic borders 
but which are often, at least in part, of less than marine saltness be- 
cause of inflowing streams. The restricted use in this essay of the 
terms lake and inland sea is indicated in the following paragraphs: 

In accordance with the elementary nature of these remarks it is 
thought desirable to briefly characterize the various kinds of existing 
bodies of water in which sediments similar to those which constitute 
the various sedimentary formations are now in process of deposition. 
Such a characterization is made to consist in part of an explanation of 
the special terms just referred to. 

The term lake is properly applied, and ought to be restricted, to in- 
land bodies of fresh water. It will be so used in this essay except 
in those cases where a contrary practice has resulted in a public recog- 
nition of such proper names as Great Salt lake, etc. 

The source of the water supply of lakes is rainfall, which is drained 
into them from the surrounding land. It is therefore fresh in the ordi- 
nary acceptation of that term, but as it enters the lake it always con- 
tains at least a minute proportion of soluble salts derived from their 
original home, the land, by leaching. The amount of salts in such 
cases being inappreciable by gustatory test, lacustrine waters are prop 
erly designated as fresh, but to remain fresh a lake must have free out- 
flow and not excessive evaporation from its surface. Otherwise it will 
become distinctly saline by the gradual accumulation of soluble salts 
which inflowing streams constantly bring from the land. 

The term inland sea, as used in connection with the terms indicating 
other bodies of water and with reference to certain formations with 
which the geologist sometimes has to deal, is applied to any body of 
water more or less completely surrounded by land which holds in solu- 
tion a sufficient proportion of saline matter to modify or characterize 
its aquatic fauna, or which holds a so much greater proportion as to be 
sufficient to prevent the existence in it of such a fauna. Therefore an 
inland sea, especially one that has an outlet, differs physically from a 
lake only by the presence of at least a readily appreciable amount of 
soluble salts in its waters. This restricted use of the term sea is war- 
ranted by prevalent custom with reference to the Black, Caspian, Dead, 
and other existing seas. 

While the difference between inland seas and lakes is important as 
regards their respective aquatic faunas the distinguishing character of 
both is subject to change because in both cases it depends upon physi- 
cal conditions the stability of which is uncertain, and because any con- 
siderable change of those conditions will result in a change of charac- 
ter. For example such a change in the physical conditions which sur- 
round a lake as would reduce the proportion of outflow to influx of 
water and increase evaporation from its surface would, according to 
the definition just given, change it to an inland sea. That is, soluble 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 331 

salts would accumulate in its waters to such an extent and of such a 
character as to modify or destroy its aquatic fauna. A reversal of such 
conditions would change an inland sea to a lake, because soluble salts 
would cease to accumulate in its Maters and the previous surplus would 
gradually be removed by the free outflow which would result from such 
a change. 

Inland seas may hold either more or less saline matter in solution 
than does the ocean. In those which by reason of having no outlet 
hold more, or hold a large proportion of other salts than sodium chlo- 
ride, little or no gill-bearing animal life exists. Such seas may lie above 
ocean level, as does Great Salt lake, in Utah, or below it, as does the 
Dead sea. 

But the waters of some existing inland seas which have no outlet 
have not yet become so impregnated with soluble salts as to destroy, 
or to prevent the accession of aquatic life. This is at present the con- 
dition of the Caspian sea, excepting some of its bays where from exces- 
sive evaporation the water contains an excess of saline matter, but if 
surrounding physical conditions continue the same as they now are the 
present average degree of saltnessof this sea will continually increase. 
Its surface being more than 80 feet below ocean level it can of course 
have no outlet. The land area which is drained into it, being very 
large there is a considerable and constant accession of saline matter 
to its waters. Therefore it can not be doubted that if surrounding con- 
ditions should remain unchanged the natural increase of soluble saline 
matter will ultimately destroy all aquatic life in this sea. 

The Black sea is an example of an inland sea lying nearly at ocean 
level, the difference between its level and that of the Mediterranean 
and of the ocean really amounting to little or no more than the short 
and slight river slope of the Bosphorus and of the Hellespont. The 
proportion of soluble salts in the waters of this sea, like those of the 
Caspian, Baltic, and other seas, differs greatly in different parts and at 
different depths, the average proportion being less than that of the 
oceans; but any cause which should diminish or increase its supply of 
drainage water would increase or diminish its average saltness, as 
already explained; and such increase or diminution would correspond- 
ingly affect the character of its aquatic fauna. 

The general statements contained in the last three paragraphs con- 
cerning the conditions which prevail in connection with existing lakes 
and inland seas, and the circumstances upon which those conditions 
depend, are introduced here for the purpose already indicated, and also 
that they may be referred to in connection with the criteria which are 
discussed in the following paragraphs: 

Because the waters in which even the latest of the sedimentary for- 
mations of the earth were deposited have long ago passed away, and 
their beds changed to dry land, the grounds upon which geologists 
assume that of the formations which they have to investigate, some 



332 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

were deposited in marine, and others in nonmarine waters, and that 
some of the latter deposits were formed in inland seas, some in lakes, 
and some in estuaries or rivers, are necessarily inferential in character. 
Still, the former existence of those previous conditions is held to be 
demonstrated by means of certain accepted criteria. 

The only criteria of this kind which may be :*egarded as trustworthy 
are based upon conditions which are observable with reference to now 
existing oceanic and inland waters, and upon the character of the 
organic forms which inhabit those waters respectively. They are there- 
fore of two kinds, physical and biological. The physical criteria pertain 
to conditions surrounding, or prevailing in the region adjacent to, each 
of such bodies of water. The biological criteria pertain to the organic 
forms for which any given body of water constitutes a congenial hab- 
itat. As used in geological investigation, physical criteria are applied 
mainly to the stratigraphical and lithological character of sedimentary 
formations or deposits, to the method of their accumulation and to the 
action of those natural forces which have characterized them or con- 
trolled their production. Biological criteria are applied to the fossil 
remains of animals and plants which the formations respectively are 
found to contain. In some instances, however, the character of the 
fossil remains is such as to imply the coexistence of certain physical 
conditions which may not otherwise be plainly indicated. 

The distinguishing physical characteristics of fluviatile deposits, be- 
sides the narrowness of their limits and the effects of self-corrasion 
of their valleys, which are shown in terraces and bluffs, are the preva- 
alence of shingle and sand in their channels, and of silt upon their 
flood plains, and the absence of such regular stratification of any of 
these materials as is to be observed in those which constitute marine 
and lacustrine deposits. These characteristics are more or less plainly 
apparent in the lew ancient fluviatile deposits which have been discov- 
ered in association with formations which have been deposited in broad 
bodies of water. It is true, however, that shingle and silt sometimes 
accumulate in the marine waters of narrow straits or channels in such 
a manner as to resemble fluviatile deposits, and that their wave-worn 
bluffs often resemble some of those which have been produced by river 
corrasion. While therefore it is sometimes practicable to recognize 
among geological formations such fluviatile deposits as these by means 
of physical data alone, it is always difficult and often impracticable to 
do so, especially if their true character has become obscured by dis- 
placement and erosion, or by the overlapping of other formations. 

These remarks are made with particular reference to those ancient 
river channels which have been corraded out of sedimentary forma- 
tions and covered by others of a similar kind, and not to those later 
channels, some of which have become covered by glacial drift and 
others by lava outflows. The earlier are usually less distinct and char- 
acteristic than are some of t lie later ones, doubtless because the effects 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 333 

of a receding- and encroaching' shore line, and other results of the ele- 
vation and depression of the land surface upon which they were formed, 
generally were of a destructive character. It is of course only portions 
of any of these ancient fluviatile deposits that have been discovered, 
but portions of some of the later ones have fallen under unusually pre 
servative conditions. 

Those narrow bodies of water, usually called lagoons, which are sepa- 
rated from the open ocean only by sand reefs, often partake of the charac- 
ter of estuaries as regards both their aquatic life and their varying pro- 
portion of soluble salts. Their deposits also so often resemble those of 
estuaries that upon physical grounds alone it probably will always be 
difficult and generally impracticable to distinguish from each other the 
ancient deposits of these two kinds which may exist among geological 
formations. 

The extent of an estuarine deposit of course depends largely upon 
the size of the inflowing river, the largest sometimes rivaling in ex- 
tent the deposits of lakes and inland seas. In some respects their 
physical characteristics resemble those of fluviatile deposits. That is, 
like the latter, they contain accumulations of silt and shingle, and they 
generally are wanting in that regularity of stratification which charac- 
terizes the deposits of broad bodies of water. This irregularity is usu- 
ally apparent even upon the outer border of an estuary, where it shows 
the effects of the litoral wash of the great body of water between which 
and the inflowing river it holds an intermediate place. Kstuaries exist 
upon the borders of both lacustrine and marine waters, but the physi- 
cal character of their deposits is essentially the same in both cases. 
It therefore is impracticable upon physical grounds alone to distin- 
guish an estuary deposit made upon the border of marine waters from 
one made upon a lake border. 

The physical characteristics of those sedimentary deposits which 
are made in lakes and inland seas are similar in all essential respects 
to those made in marine waters, except that, as a rule, calcareous mate 
rial is more prevalent among marine deposits than any other. The 
materials of which they are composed, like those of marine deposits, are 
more or less evenly bedded, and they constitute characteristic members 
of that great class of sedimentary deposits to which the term stratified 
rocks is applied. Because of this uniformity of general characteristics 
it is always difficult, and generally impossible, to demonstrate by means 
of physical data alone whether a given formation was deposited in 
marine waters or in those of a lake or an inland sea. Still, a geologist 
who has much experience in the application of all available evidence 
may often approximate a correct judgment in such cases by means of 
physical data, but the almost certain presence in such strata of bio 
logical data leaves him without excuse for relying only upon the 
physical. 



334 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

It is apparent from the foregoing remarks that upon physical evi- 
dence alone it is not practicable to satisfactorily classify the sedimen- 
tary formations of the earth in such a manner as to serve the purpose of 
thorough geological investigation. Therefore such data are in this, as 
in most other cases, chiefly valuable as being accessory to the evidence 
afforded by biological data. 

The biological criteria which are relied upon by geologists to distin- 
guish from one another the sedimentary formations which have been 
produced in marine waters, or in those of inland seas, lakes, rivers, or 
estuaries, relate to the characteristics of faunas which now inhabit 
those waters respectively, and to the differences from one another of 
such faunas. That is, the conclusions which geologists reach concern- 
ing the questions just indicated are based upon now-existing phys- 
ical conditions, upon the known character, structure, and habits of 
animals with relation to those conditions, and upon the assumption 
that in past geological epochs animals of a given character and struc- 
ture had similar habits, and lived under conditions similar to those 
which are congenial to their living congeners. 

To aid in defining these criteria it is necessary to review the animal 
kingdom as it now exists, and to select for consideration those portions 
of it which furnish data upon which to base the necessary definitions. 
This selection is based mainly upon the function of aqueous respiration, 
because it is only animals possessing this function that have a direct 
relation to the character of the water in the sediments of which their 
remains may become intombed, and because these sediments and their 
organic contents are similar in their origin to those which constitute 
the fossiliferous formations with which the geologist has to deal. Land 
animals are only briefly referred to in this review because they have at 
best only incidental relation to the character of the respective bodies 
of water near which they live and to the sediments which are depos- 
ited in them, and for a similar reason plants also will be only briefly 
considered. Still, remains of land animals and plants have an indirect 
value in this connection. For example, it is obvious that such remains 
are more likely to find intombment in inland than in marine waters. 
We also may assume that they rarely reach those of the open ocean or 
that they quickly become destroyed by the triturating action of the 
waves if they reach oceanic waters. 

All those aquatic animals whose bodies possess no internal or exter- 
nal skeleton, or such portions as resist decomposition after death, are 
also excluded or only incidentally mentioned, because it is those parts 
only that really become fossilized, as has already been explained ir 
Essay t, and also because in the application to paleontological inves- 
tigation of the facts to be presented in this review reference can be 
made only to the fossil remains of animals similar to those now living. 
All extinct animals are also excluded from this review because it is 
these to which the criteria based upon living forms are to be applied. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 335 



VKKTKI5KA I A. 



Although the Vertebrata constitute the highest division of the animal 
kingdom, for the reasons just mentioned, comparatively few of them 
except the fishes have a direct bearing upon any inquiry concerning 
the character of formerly existing bodies of water. That is, much the 
greater part of all the other vertebrates consist of land animals the 
natural habitats of which have at best only an indirect relation to the 
character of the waters in the sediments of which their remains may 
find intombment. 

Mammalia. — The Mammalia are so generally dwellers upon the dry 
land that while a few are amphibious in their habits only the orders 
Cetacea and Sirenia and the Phocidae and Odobaenidae of the order Car- 
nivora are confined to an aquatic habitat, at least so far as concerns 
their locomotion. Besides this, all these animals being air-breathers 
their aquatic habitat may be regarded as a matter of special adapta- 
tion. 

Fossil remains of any of the larger Cetacea may be taken as presump- 
tive evidence of the marine origin of the deposits in which they maybe 
found, but so many of the smaller members of that order live in estua- 
ries that other evidence is usually required to determine the character 
of the deposits in which fossil remains of such animals occur. Because 
the structure and habits of the Sirenia restrict them to an estuarineor 
littoral habitat, fossil remains of such animals have much significance 
as to the character of the deposits in which they may occur, and as to 
the proximity of the land to the place where such deposits were made. 
Although the Phocidae and Odobaenidae usually inhabit marine waters, 
they often range into estuaries and occasionally, but rarely, some of the 
former inhabit fresh waters. Therefore, fossil remains of such animals 
is strong presumptive, but not positive, evidence of the marine origin 
of the formations in which they may be found. 

The foregoing remarks apply to those mammals which live in, or 
habitually resort to the water, but the larger part of all discovered fos- 
sil mammalian remains are those of strictly land animals. The manner 
in which such remains have found intombment in aqueous sediments, 
and the probable reasons why they are much oftener found in nonma- 
rine than in marine formations have been indicated on preceding pages. 

A res. — As a class, birds have little bearing upon the subject of this 
review, because their respiration is aerial, and comparatively few of 
them habitually live in the water as a permanent habitat. Further- 
more, with apparently the exception of the Spheniscidae and some of 
the Laridae, those which resort to an aquatic habitat find saline and 
fresh waters equally congenial. Avian fossil remains are therefore of 
comparatively little value as indicating the character of the water in 
which any given formation was deposited. Still, as is the case with 
the mammals and other land animals, avian remains are more likely to 
be found in the sediments of inland than of marine waters. 



336 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Beptilia. — All reptiles are air-breathers, and a large part of them are 
strictly land animals. Many are amphibious, and some are habitually 
aquatic in their habits. Among aquatic reptiles are the Hydrophidae 
and some of the Ohelonia, which live in marine waters, and others ot 
the latter order which live in fresh waters. The Crocodilia also usually 
inhabit fresh waters and the shores of the same, but they frequently 
range into the saline waters of estuaries and lagoons. The greater 
part of all living reptiles of aquatic habits, however, are found in fresh 
waters, and therefore fossil reptilian remains referable to living fami- 
lies are regarded as more likely to indicate a nonmarine than a marine 
origin for the formation containing them. 

The abundance and great variety of known fossil reptiles show that 
the class is only partially represented by all those now living. Fur- 
thermore, most of the extinct reptiles differed so much from any living 
kinds that comparatively little inference may be drawn as to the char- 
acter of their respective habitats by a consideration of those of living 
reptiles. The character of the habitat of those of extinct reptiles must 
be learned mainly from their osseous structure and their dentition ; but 
in the case of those whose aquatic habitat is thus determined, the 
marine or nonmarine character of the waters in which they lived is 
rarely indicated. Therefore, while a great, and doubtless the greater, 
part of the preserved remains of extinct reptiles were intombed in non- 
marine sediments, whether those sediments were deposited in brackish 
or fresh waters must usually be learned, if learned at all, from other 
evidence than that which is furnished by the remains themselves. 

Batrachia. — In their larval, gill-bearing condition all Batrachians 
are denizens of fresh waters, usually those of pools and marslies. A 
few of them retain their gills and fresh-water habitat during life, but 
most of them become air-breathers. A part of these become denizens 
of the dry land, but the remainder continue to live in the palustral 
habitat in which their larval stage was passed. Therefore it is assumed 
that batrachian fossil remains are much more likely to be found in 
strata of fresh, than of marine, or even of brackish, water origin. 

Pisces.* — Because all fishes have aqueous respiration it is desirable 
for the present purpose to review the whole class by families. The 
general facts concerning the habitat of each family are well exhibited 
by the following tabular arrangement of their names, the three columns 
of the table representing marine, brackish, and fresh waters, respec- 
tively. The occurrence of the name of a family only in the left hand 
column indicates that no representative of it is known in any other 
than marine waters; and in case the name occurs only in the right 



* The classification here used is that of Dr. Theodore Gill in his arrangement of 
the families of fishes as published in Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections No. 247, 
pp. 1-25 and personally revised hyhiin fortius essay. Dr. Gill has long had in hand 
an elaborate revision of this classification; but that which is here presented is deemed 
sufficient for the illustration of these discussious. 



DELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 337 

band column an exclusively fresh-water habitat is indicated for thai 
family. The occurrence of the name of a family in more than one of 
the columns indicates that it has representatives in more than one of 
the three kinds of habitat. The two kinds of eases first mentioned 
need no further explanation, but a variety of facts connected with the 
latter kind need to be considered. These will be briefly stated in the 
series of explanatory notes following the table, and certain other facts 
and considerations will be presented in the closing paragraphs of this 
review. 

TELEOSTEI. 



Marine. 



Brackish. 



Orthagoriscidse 
Tetrodontida: . 

Triodontida' 

Ostraciontidir . . 
Balistkhr 



Fresh. 



Tetrodoni ida 



Triacanthida' 

Hippocampidaa Hippocampidse 

Syngnathida? Syngnathida- 

Solenostomida? . . . .. 

Maltheidse 

Lophiida? 

Oratiida? 

Antcnnariida> 

Soleidie 

Pleuronectida- 

Macruridse 

Congrogadida' 

Fierasfeiida> -. - - - 

Ophidiida3 ■ 



Syngnathida?. 



Soli' id* . 

Pleuronectidae Pleuronectida'. 



Brotulid*. 



Brotulida 1 

Brotnlophidida' 

Bregmacerotidce 

Ranicepitiila 1 

Gadidaa ! Gadidae. 

Merluciidse 

Lycodida* 



Ateleopodidse 

Xenoceplialida' 

Amraodytidae 

Gadopsida? 

( Iryptacantludai 

Stichandoe 

Xiphidiontida- 

Acaiitliocliniila- 

I 'ha-nnpsida? , 

Nemophidida? 

Anarrbichadida- 

Cebidichthyidae , 

Blenniidae ] Bleimiida: 

Pataxida: : 



Batracbidse 

Leptoscopidx 

P'actyloscopida? 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2- 



Batrachidse 



Batrachidx 



338 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 
TELEOSTEI— Continued. 



Marine. 



Brackish. 



Fresh. 



Uranoscopidse . . . 

Trachinidae 

Trichodontidse — 

Gobiesocidse 

Liparididae 

CyclopteridsB 

Platypteridse 

Callionymidse — 

Gobiidae 

Triglidse 

Agonidae 

Cottidae 

Platycephalidae. . 
Heraitripteridae. .. 

Scorpeenidae 

Chiridae 

Scarida? 

Siplionognathidae . 

Labridae 

Pomacentridae 



Gobiidae Gobiid®. 



CbttidaB 



Embiotocidae 
Gerridse 



Polyuemidae 

Acanthnridae 

Amphacanthida-. 

Toxotidse 

Cha?todontidae . . . 

Ephippiidao 

Xiphiidae 

Trichiuridae 

Scombridae 

Carangidae 

Drepanidae 

Coryph»nidae — 
Nematistiidae . . . . 

Stromateidae 

Zeidae 

Pteraclididae 

Bramidae 

Lampridida* 

Dianidac 

Kurtidae 

Capridae 

Nouieidae 

Sillaginidae 

Chaenichthyidae . 
Harpagiferida? . . . 

Xototheniidoe 

Bovichthyidae - . . 

Latilidae 

Mullidae 



Pomacentridae 



( !ichlidae. 
Embiotocidae. 



Gerridae 



Helostomidae. 
Anabantidse. 
Osphromenidae. 



Pelynemidae 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 33 ( J 
TELEOSTEI— Continued. 



Marine. 


Brackish. 


Fresh. 








































PristipomatidsB. 






















( Vntropomidse. 














































Aphredoderidae. 






















Comephoridse. 
















Luciocephalidse. 
Ophiocephalidse. 




































Mugilidse. 
Gasterosteidae. 






































B 1 1 


Scom beresoeida* 










Aniblyopsidte. 














( !j prinodontidsB 


CyprinodontidsB. 








I'l-TCKpsillil'. 

BaplochifconidaB. 












i tsteoglossidsB. 
Notoptoriiliv. 























340 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 
TELEOSTEI— Continued. 



Marine. 


Brackish. 


Fresh. 










































































A lbulidae 










Elopidae. 
















< lupeidae. 




























Cyprinidse. 
Cobitidse. 










Homalopteridoe. 










Sternopygidse. 
Electrophoridse. 




















Hypoplitbalniidae. 
















Chacidse. 
Plotosidse. 




Plotosidaa 








Callichtbyida>. 






















AspredinidsB. 
Monopteridse. 














Amphipnoidac. 









































































RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. <>4l 



G \ CTOIDEI. 



Marine. 






Brackish. 


E'fesh 








Amiida-. 

Lepidosteida.'. 

Polypteridsc. 

Lepidosirenidse. 

( ieratodontidre, 

Polj odontida:. 

AcipeuseridsR. 


































Ac 


penseridi 




Aci] 


enserh 







KLAS.MOI'.K AM 111 1 



lirai-kish. 



Chima 



Fresh. 



Myliobatidac . . . 
Cephalopteridffi 

Trygonida- 

Torpedinidse - - - 

Raiida? 

Rhinobatidse. . 
RhamphobatidiE 

Pristida- 

Sqnatinidae . . . . 
Heterodonlida- 

Nblidanidse 

Rhinodontidse . 
Cetorhinidse . . . 

Lanmidse 

Odontaspididaa . 
Alopeciidse . ... 
Sphyrnidse 



Trygonida: 



I r\ gonitis. 



Raiida 



Raiida-. 



Prist ida- Priatidse. 



Galeorhioidse 

ScylliidaB 

Gringlymostomatidse . 

C'rossorhinida- 

Spinacidae 

Sevmnida- . — 

Oxynotidae 

Pristiophorida- 



Galeorhiuidae ] Galeorhinida-. 



The following remarks apply only to those families Which have repre- 
sentatives in more than one of the three kinds of aquatic habitat which 
arc indicated in the foregoing table. The presence of the name of a 
family in only oneof the three columns is alone a complete expression of 
the fact that no representative of it is known in any other habitat than 
the one thus indicated. It must be remembered, however, that almost 
any fish whose habitat ranges along the seacoast may occasionally run 
up into brackish water. Consequently the families enumerated under 
the head of "brackish" are such only as have representatives habitu- 
ally living in brackish waters. 

Although the Tetrodontid.e area typically marine family, one species 
of it is known in South American fresh waters. 



342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Most of the Syngnathidae inhabit marine waters, but some of them 
range into estuaries, and a few are found in fresh waters. 

As a rule the Soleidae are marine fishes, but representatives of the 
family are known in South American and other fresh waters. 

The Pleuronectidae are also typically marine, but some species range 
into estuaries, and some of these range into adjacent fresh waters. 

The Brotulidae are mainly marine, many being found in abyssal 
depths j but two blind species, representing two genera, are found in the 
fresh waters of Cuban caves. 

TheGradidae, with the known exception of only one species, are marine 
fishes. This species is common to Europe and North America and is 
confined to fresh waters. 

One species of the Blenniuke in Europe inhabits fresh waters. Most 
of the known representatives of the family are marine, but some, espe- 
cially in Australia, range into estuaries and fresh water. 

Three South American species of the Batrachidae range from marine 
and brackish into fresh waters. Almost all other known members of the 
family are denizens of marine waters. 

The greater part of the Gobiidae inhabit marine waters exclusively, 
but several species range into estuaries and "adjacent fresh waters. 
Some species are confined to fresh waters. 

A majority of the Cottidae arc routined to marine waters, but certain 
genera are of exclusively fresh- water habitat. 

The Cichlidae are a typically fresh-water family, but one genus usu- 
ally referred to it is found in marine and estuarine waters. 

The Embiotocidse are mostly marine, but one genus is confined to 
fresh waters. 

Most of the Gerrid;e are of exclusively marine habitat, but some 
species range into estuaries and some even into adjacent fresh waters. 

The Polynemidae are typically marine, but some species range into 
est uaries. 

The Sciaenidae are mainly of estuarine habitat; some range into fresh 
waters, and oue North American genus is confined to fresh waters. 

The Pristipomatida' are mostly marine fishes, but certain Australian 
forms are known to range into brackish and fresh waters. 

The Serranida' are also mostly marine fishes, but some species occur 
in brackish waters, and a few North American forms live almost exclu- 
sively in fresh waters. 

The Percidae are a fresh-water family, but some species range down 
into mildly brackish waters. 

Most of the Centropomidae are denizens of marine waters, but some 
species find a congenial habitat in estuarine, and even in adjacent fresh 
waters. 

The Atherinidae arc mainly marine, but some range into fresh waters, 
and one genus is confined to fresh waters. 

The Mugilidae arc mostly of marine habitat, but some range into estu- 
aries, and several species are confined to fresh water. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 343 

Some of the Gasterosteidse are confined to marine waters and others 
to fresh. Most species are found in brackish waters. 

The Belonidse are mostly marine, some of them ranging into estu- 
aries and even into fresh water. One genus is of exclusively fresh- 
water habitat. 

The Scomberesocidse are also mostly marine, some ranging into estu- 
aries and even into the adjacent fresh waters. 

The Cyprinodontidae are mainly fresh-water tishes, but some range 
into estuaries and some are denizens of salt waters. 

The Microstonmhe are mainly marine, but one species occurs also in 
fresh waters. 

Some of the Salmonida- have an exclusively fresh-water habitat, never 
migrating to salt waters. A large proportion of them migrate from 
marine to fresh waters for reproduction, but none of the family is 
wholly con lined to marine waters. 

The Salangidae are typically marine, but some range into estuaries. 

The Elopidie are mostly marine, but some range into estuaries, and 
one species is found in the fresh waters of Lake Nicaragua. 

Some of the Clupeida? are conhued to marine waters, and at least one 
species is known only in fresh waters. A large proportion of them, 
however, range from marine into fresh waters for reproduction. 

The range of habitat of the Dorosomidre is similar to that of the 
Clupeidse. 

The Siluridae are mainly denizens of fresh waters, but one section of 
the family is confined to marine waters. 

The Plotosidoe are mostly marine, but some species range into 
brackish waters and in some cases into fresh Abaters also. 

The Anguillidse all range from marine to fresh waters, returning to 
marine waters for reproduction. 

The Acipenseridse are usually found in fresh waters, but some of 
them range down into estuaries and even into waters of full marine 
saltness. 

The Trygonidie are mainly confined to marine waters, but one sec- 
tion of the family is peculiar to South American fresh waters. 

The Raiidse are almost exclusively of marine habitat, but some range 
into estuaries, and they have occasionally been found in waters that 
are nearly or quite fresh. 

All the Pristidse, with very few known exceptions, are confined to 
marine waters. One species is found in the fresh waters of Lake Nica- 
ragua and another in the Philippine islands ranges from marine into 
fresh waters. 

One species of the Galeorhinidse is also found in Lake Nicaragua 
and another ranges from marine to fresh waters in the Philippine 
islands. All other known species are confined to marine waters. 

Of the thirty-nine families mentioned in the foregoing notes as hav- 
ing representatives in more than one of the three kinds of habitat 
designated in the table. 28 of them are so generally confined to marine 



344 REPORT OF NATIONAL MU&EUM, 1892. 

waters that geologists usually regard the discovery of remains of simi- 
lar fishes in any given geological formation as evidence of its marine 
origin. Still, members of certain of these families present remarkable 
exceptions to the general rule thus indicated; such, for example, as the 
presence of Selachians in Lake Nicaragua and other fresh waters. 
Therefore, in case the fossils associated with such lish remains should 
distinctly indicate the fresh-water origin of the strata containing them, 
their presence may be held as not necessarily constituting conflicting 
evidence because of the known exceptions to the rule that their living 
congeners have a marine habitat. 

Of the remaining eleven families mentioned in the foregoing notes 
three are more abundantly represented in fresh than in saline waters. 
To these the converse of the foregoing remarks will apply. Because of 
the varying range of habitat of the remaining eight families mentioned 
in the foregoing notes tlw discovery of remains referable to any of 
them in a given formation would be of little value as evidence in deter- 
mining the character of the water in which it was deposited unless 
supported by other and more definite evidence. 

The Marsipobranchii and Leptocardii are by some authors included 
in the class of fishes proper, but Dr. Gill and others regard them as 
separate classes coordinate with tishes, reptiles, etc. 

Two of the three families belonging to the Marsipobranchii are known 
only in marine waters. Most of the members of the other family, 
namely, the Petromyzontidae, range from marine into brackish and 
fresh waters, as is well known in the case of the lampreys. 

No representation of the Leptocardii are known in other than marine 
waters. 

This review of the tishes is confined to those families which have 
living representatives, and the criteria relating to the different kinds 
of aquatic habitat of fossil fishes which may be based upon this review 
apply directly only to the families here named. 

Fossil remains of a large number of kinds of fishes have been dis- 
covered, especially in the paleozoic formations, which differ so much 
from all living kinds that they can be referred to no family, and some- 
times to no order, which has living representatives. 

The character of the water in which such tishes lived might be con- 
jectured by reference to their most nearly related forms, but the most 
reliable indication is furnished by such other fossil remains as may be 
found associated with them. 

MOLLUSCA.* 

The Mollusca are of peculiar importance in connection with the sub- 
ject of this review, because the greater part of the members of this sub- 
kingdom have aqueous respiration, and because in the matter of 

* The classification of the Mollusca used in this review is that of Dr. Theodore 
(Jill's "Arrangement of the Families of Mollusks." See Smithsonian Miscellaneous 
Publications, No. 227, 1871. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 345 

distinguishing marine from nonmarine formations and the latter from 
one another it is with their often abundant fossil remains that the geol- 
ogist has more frequently to deal than with those of any other animals. 

Cephalopoda. — Every known member of all the families of this elass 
is exclusively marine, therefore the presence of fossil remains referable 
to any member of the elass in any formation is regarded as sufficient 
evidence of its marine origin, provided that its character and condition 
indicate that the animals thus represented were denizens of the waters 
in which the formation was deposited. 

(jas1ero[)o(h{. — The following table, constructed upon the same plan 
as that of the fishes, is intended to give a synoptical view of the aquatic 
habitat of each of the families of living gasteropods which have direct 
relation to the subject of this review. For obvious reasons all those 
families are omitted which include only air-breathers as well as those 
families all the members of which possess no shell, either internal or 
external. As in the case of the preceding table, this one is followed 
by explanatory notes setting forth certain facts which are not clearly 
expressed by means of such a tabular arrangement: 

Diceca. 
ORDER PECTINIBRANCHIATA. 



Riasoellidse 



.Vasiminiida 



Marine. 


Brackish. 


Fresh. 










































Volutidae 








































Tnrbinellidsc 












Olividse 












Ptychatractidae 






Muricidfc 






( lolumbellida? 







Ampullariidae 
Valvatidii'. 
Vi\ iparida?. 

Assiniilliichr. 



Pomatiopsidni 



346 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Diceca — Contin ued. 
ORDER PECTINIBRANCHIATA— Continued. 



Marine. 



Rissoidae. 
Skeneidss 



Brackish. 



Ri.ssoida' 



RissoidsB. 
BytbiniidsB. 



Fossarida? 
Littorinidse. . . 
Pyramidellidse 

Euliiiiida- 

Styliferidse . . 



Ceritbiopsidae. 
Cerithiidae ... 
Planaxidse . . . . 



LittorinidsB. 



MelanopsidsB 



CeritbiidsB. 



Ceripb&siidae. 
MelanopsidsB. 
MelaniidsB. 



( lerithiidae. 



■id; 



Vermetidae — 
Tenagodidae - . . 
Turritcllida' . . . 
Trichotropidse 
Hipponicidae. . . 

Capulidae 

Calyptreidas . . . 
Neiitopsidae . . - 

Onnstidae 

Strombidae 

Aporrbaidae . . 
Pediculariidae - 
Ampbiperasida 

CypraBidsa 

Triviidae 

Mavseniidae — 

Velutinidse 

Naticidse 

Pyrulidte 

Doliidas 

Cassididae . .... 

Ranellidae 

Tritonidae 

lantliinidiB 

Solariidae 
Scalariidae 



Atiantidae 

Carinariida?. . . 
Pterotraehseidas 



ORDER HETEROPODA. 



ORDER RHIPHIDOOLOSSA. 



Neritidae Neritidaa 

Roteliidae 



Rotellidae . 



V i ; 1 1 : 1 : " . 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 347 



Diceca — Continued. 
OEDER RHIPHIDOGLOSSA— Continued. 



Turbinidse 

Liotiidae 

Trochidse 

Stomatellidae .... 
Pleurotomariidse. 

Scissurellidse 

Haliotidae 

Fissurellidse 

Emarginulidre . . . 



Brackish. 



Fn-sli 



ORDER DOCOGLOSSA. 



Acmaeidae". 
Patellidae . 
Lepetida' . 



AciiiM'iihi' 



Acmaeidae. 



( (tinida? 

Auriculidae . . 
Siphonariidse . 
Gadiniidae .'. .. 
Amphibolidae. 



ORDER POLYPLACOPHnRA. 






















Pnl mon if era. 
ORDER Pl'I.MONATA. 



Otinidae 

Auriculidse . . . 
Siphonariidse. 
Gadiniidae . . 
Amphibolidae. 



Chilinida-. 
Physidae. 
Ancylidae. 
Limnaeidae. 



Opisthobranchiata. 
ORDER TECTIBRANCHIATA. 



Philiuidae 

Amphyspiridae - . - 

Ringiculidae 

Actseonidae 

( !ylinchnidae 

Bullidae 

Ampluatridae 

Lophoeercidae 

Aplysiidae 

Runcinidae 

1 yliidinidie 

Umbrellidse 

Pleurobran< hiidae. 



34S EtEPORT OP NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Pteropoda. 
ORDER THECOSOMATA. 



Limacinkla3. 
HyalicUe .... 
( !j nil.iiliid.i- 



Brackish. 



Fresh. 



ProsocephaJ-a. 
ORDER SOLENOCONVU.K. 



Deiitiliid.i 



The foregoing table of the families of living Gasteropoda is, as 
already stated-, constructed upon the same plan as that of the fishes, an 
explanation of which plan and its significance is given on page 33l>. 
The list includes the names of only those families at least some mem- 
bers of which possess shelly or skeletal parts that are likely to resist 
decomposition after the death ot the animal. Other families are not 
included, because it is only by means of those hard parts that the liv- 
ing can be compared with fossil forms. The significance of placing the 
name of a family in only one of the three columns of the table is so ap- 
parent as to need little, if any, explanation, but there are certain facts 
relating to members of others of these families which such a table can 
not distinctly show . Mention of such of these and kindred facts as is 
deemed necessary for the present purpose is made in the following 
supplementary notes. 

The greater part of the Buecinidae inhabit marine waters, but they 
uotunfrequently range into estuaries, and certain species are sometimes 
found in waters that are nearly or quite fresh. 

While a majority of the species of the Assiminiidse find a freshwater 
habitat congenial, sonic live upon the borders of saline water, at river 
mouths or in estuaries. 

Of the living forms referable to 'the Kissouhe some inhabit marine, 
some brackish, ami others fresh waters, but no species is known to 
range from one of these kinds of habitat into another, although it is 
probable that some may <lo so. Because the fossil species referable to 
this family may, as a rule, be regarded as distinct from all living spe- 
cies, the presence of fossil shells referable to this family in any forma 
tion does not necessarily give any definite indication as to whether it 
was of marine, brackish, or fresh water origin. In such cases the char- 
acter of the habitat must be determined by means of their faunal asso- 
ciates. 

The Littorinuke usually inhabit the margins of marine waters, but 
some species have a brackish-water habitat. 

The Melanopsida- usually inhabit fresh waters, but some of them are 
ound in waters that are more or less saline. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 349 

All living forms of the Melaniidse are regarded as freshwater niollusks, 
but a few species appear to be able to live in waters which arc in some 
degree saline. Certain fossil members of this family have been found 
in such association with other lnollusean remains as to indicate that 
they were capable of living in saline waters. 

Much the greater part of the Cerithiidse inhabit marine waters, but 
some species are known to find a congenial habitat in brackish waters, 
and a few are known to range into adjacent fresh waters. 

As a rule, the Neritidaeare found in either marine or brackish waters. 
but a few species are known to live in fresh water. 

The Trochus-like shells which have been found in Lake Tanganyika 
probably do not belong to the Trochidae. The trochids are therefore 
regarded as distinctly marine. 

A few of the Acmaud limpets found in Borneo are reported to pass 
from saline waters into fresh. The Acuueidae are not uncommon in 
brackish waters, but members of the family are most abundant in ma- 
rine waters. 

The Otinidae, Auriculuhe, Siphonariidae, and Gadinidse, are air- 
breathing moliusks living upon the margins of both marine and brack- 
ish waters. The Amphibolidae also usually inhabit the sea margin, but 
some of them appear to find waters of less than marine saltness not 
uncongenial. 

Although the Bullidae are, as a rule, strictly marine, two genera, 
namely, Haminea and Tornatella, have been found in the mud of brack- 
ish water lagoons. 

As indicated in the paragraph preceding this table, all the members 
of the (lasteropod order Nudibranchiata, together with all those of the 
Pteropod order Gymnosomata are omitted from it because none of the 
species possess more than a minute embryonic shell, and therefore no 
identifiable fossil remains of any members of these orders are likely to 
be discovered. All the Tunicata and land Pulmonata also arc omitted, 
the former because the character of the body is always such that re- 
mains of it are not likely to be found fossilized, and the latter, because 
they have no direct relation to an aquatic habitat. 

Of the twelve families mentioned in the foregoing notes as having 
representatives in more than one of the three kinds of habitat indicated 
in the table, fully one-half of them are so generally found only in marine 
waters that geologists usually are inclined, in the absence of contrary 
evidence, to regard fossil representatives of them as indicating a marine 
origin for the strata in which they may occur. Three of the other fam- 
ilies are so generally found only in fresh waters that the converse of 
the foregoing remarks would apply to them. Representatives of the 
others are so often found in both marine and nonmarine waters that 
in the case of fossil representatives it is always necessary to have cor 
roborative evidence as to the probable character of the water in which 
they lived. 



350 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Conchifera. — The following table of the families of the Conchifera is 
constructed in the same form as that of the Gasteropoda, and tbe gen- 
eral remarks preceding that table are applicable to this: 



ORDER DIMYARIA. 



Marine. 



Brackish. 



Aspergillida' 

Gastrochsenidae 

Teredinidse Teredinidse 

Pholadidse 



Soloiiidie 

Solecurtida- Solecurtidas. 

Saxicavidae 

Myidae 



Fresh. 



Teredinidse. 



Solecurtidse. 



Corbttlidae 

Paiidoridae 

Anatinidse 

Myochamidse .. 
Pholadomyidse. 
Mactrida- 



Corbulidffi Corbnlid; 



Mesodesniida- . . . 
Ampliidesnnda>. 

Tellinidaj 

Psammobiidae . . . 

Donacida? 

Petricolidse 

Veneridae 

Glauconomidae. . 
Cyrenidae 



Psammobiidae. 



Cyrenoididae . 
Dreissenidae . 

Veniliidie 

Glossidae 

Cardiidas 



Chamidse 

Lueinidae 

Ungulinidae. . 

Eryriuidse 

Cyaiuiidre 

Leptonida' — 
Galeoinmidae. 
Soleruyida? — 
Crassatellidre 
Carditida? 



Glauconomidae - 

Cyrenida' Cyrenidas. 

Pisidiidae. 

Cyrenoidida> Cyrenoididae. 

Dreissenidae Dreissenidae. 



Adacnida> 



Trigonidia 1 
Nuculidae .. 

Ledidae 

Areidae 



Arcidae 



Adacnidse. 



Unionida 1 . 

Iridinida'. 

Mycetopodida-. 

iEtheriidae. 

Muelleviidae. 



Areidae . 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 351 



ORDER METAKKIIIl'T.K. 



Murine 



Tridacnidse 



Brackish. 



Fresh. 



ORDER HETER< >M V ARIA. 



Mytilidje Mytilidae. 



ORDER MONOMYARIA. 



Pinnidse 

Pteriidae — 
Vulsellidae . 
Spondylidse . 

Lhuida; 

Pectinidse. . . 
Placunidse . . 
Auomiidse . . 
Ostreidiv 



Anomiidas. 
Ostreidaa . . 



The following remarks are confined to those families which are known 
to have representatives in more than one of the three kinds of aquatic 
habitat indicated in the foregoing table. 

The Teredinida 1 are properly regarded as a marine family, but at 
least one living species is known in a fresh-water habitat, namely, in 
the lower Ganges. Therefore the discovery of a fossil member of this 
family is not of itself positive, although presumptive, proof ot the marine 
origin of the formation containing it. 

A similar remark may be made concerning the Solecurtidae, a few- 
species of which have been found in brackish waters, and in rare cases 
some have been known to range into fresh waters. 

The Corbulid;e are common in bothjnarine and brackish waters, and 
they are occasionally found to have passed into adjacent fresh waters 
or to have survived the freshening of the saliue waters in which they 
formerly lived. Fossil members of this family are often found with 
only marine associates, quite as often with brackish water associates, 
and in rare cases all associated species are fresh-water forms. 

Some species of both the Psammobiidse and Glauconomkke have 
been found in estuarine waters of considerably less than marine saltness. 
Therefore fossil species referable to either of these families are likely 
to be found associated with an estuarine fauna. 

The Cyrenidie like the Corbulidae, are represented in marine, brack- 
ish, and purely fresh waters, and the paleontological significance of both 
families is similar. 

The range of habitat of the Cyrenoididae is similar to that of the 
Cyrenidae, except that none of them are known to inhabit purely tresh 
waters. 

The Dreissenida? as a family appear to find marine, brackish, and 



352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892/ 

fresh waters equally congenial, and some species appear to range into 
both brackish and fresh water. This family, however, is represented 
by a greater number of species in uonmarine than in marine waters. 

The Adacnidae are seldom or never found in waters of full marine 
saltness, but they are found in such waters as those of the fresher por- 
tions of the Black sea, in estuarine waters, and in those which are quite 
fresh. Therefore fossil members of this family are regarded as indicat- 
ing a nonmarine origin for the deposits containing them. 

One feels so fully warranted in regarding the living Arcidse ;is a 
marine family that he expects to find no exception among its fossil 
members, but the case of the living fresh-water Stvtphiila gangetica 
shows that this rule is not absolute. Therefore it is possible, if not 
probable, that fossil members of this family may be discovered in non- 
marine formations. 

While the Mytilida* all thrive in waters of full marine saltness, some 
of them also thrive in brackish waters. Entirely fresh waters, however, 
seem to be uncongenial to all of them. 

All the Ostreidse thrive in waters of full marine saltness. They thrive 
equally well in the less saline waters of estuaries and bays, but never 
in entirely fresh waters. Therefore the presence of fossil representa- 
tives of this family in any formation is taken to indicate that the water 
in which it was deposited was at least in some degree saline. 

The Anomiidie are far more abundant in marine than in any other 
waters, but they are frequently found in the less saline waters of bays 
and lagoons. They are not known to occur in fresh waters, and it is 
therefore inferred that no fossil members of this family had a fresh- 
water habitat. 

Brachiopoda. — Every Known member of all the families of this class 
is exclusively marine. Therefore geologists regard the presence in 
any formation of Brachiopod remains as sufficient evidence of its 
marine origin, in case there is no indication of its accidental presence. 

Poh/zoa. — With the exception of the three fresh- water families, Pec 
tinatellidse, Cristatellkhe, and Plumatellidse, all the Polyzoa inhabit 
saline waters, most of them living in those of full' marine saltness. A 
few of them range into brackish waters, but as a class they are so gen- 
erally marine in their habits that the geologist rarely hesitates to con 
elude that any formation is of marine origin which contains fossil 
polyzoan remains. This conclusion is supported by the fact that the 
living fresh-water representatives of the class are rarely provided with 
skeletal, protective, or supporting parts which resist decomposition 
after the death of the colonies of minute animals. 

ANNCLOIpA. 

The Annuloida are divisible into two classes, the Seolecida and Ech- 
inodermata. All the Seolecida are omitted from this review because 
the remains of no representative of any of its families is likely to be 
discovered in a fossil state. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 353 

Every known member of all the families of the class Echinodermata 
is a denizen of marine waters. Therefore the discovery in any forma- 
tion of fossil remains referable to this class is accepted as proof of its 
marine origin. 

ANNTLOSA. 

The classes Myriapoda and Arachnida arc omitted from this review 
because they are all land animals except the few that rind a congenial 
habitat in more or less direct contact with water. 

In their adult state the Insecta are generally land animals, but some of 
them resort to at least a partially aquatic habitat. In their larval state, 
however, many insects are true aquatic animals, usually living in fresh 
waters. In this state some of them possess no such skeletal or protec- 
tive parts as are likely to resist decomposition, but many of them, like 
the adult Insecta, Arachnida and Myriapoda, are provided with a chi- 
tinous covering which retains more or less completely the bodily form 
of the animal after its death and decomposition. Therefore such forms 
arc not uufrequeutly found preserved in a fossil state, but because all, 
or nearly all the members of those three classes had either a land or 
fresh-water habitat their remains are much more likely to find intomb- 
ment in the sediments of fresh waters than in those of either brackish 
or marine waters. Indeed no such remains are known to have been 
found in any deposits which are unmistakably of marine origin. 

Crustacea. — All the Crustacea being provided with gills or other 
organs suited to aqueous respiration have a peculiarly direct relation 
to the subject of these discussions. All of them also being provided 
with a more or less complete dermal skeleton or outer covering which 
resists decomposition and retains the form of the animal after its death, 
necessarily are of great paleontological importance. It is, however, 
true that their practical value in the present discussion is much less 
than that of the Mollusca not because of any inferiority, but because 
crustacean remains are comparatively very rare, especially in all North 
American strata which represent that portion of geological time during 
which were deposited the principal unmistakably non marine forma- 
tions. For this and other reasons a tabulation of the families of the 
living Crustacea like that of the fishes and mollusks on preceding 
pages has been omitted. Some of the uiore important facts concerning 
the range of habitat of certain of the various groups which constitute 
this class are, however, recorded in the following paragraphs. 

This review of the Crustacea is, therefore, somewhat more general 
than that of the fishes and mollusks. That is, no regular classification 
of the Crustacea is attempted, but tin 1 remarks are ranged under the 
head of the general divisions of the class, and direct reference is made 
only to those families or other subdivisions representatives of which 
arc found in either fresh or brackish waters or both. All those sub- 
divisions, which are not specially mentioned, are not known to live in 
other than marine waters. 

H. Mis. Ill, pt. L* L'3 



354 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Members of many of the families of the large subclass Malacostraca 
range beyond the limits of marine waters, but most of them are con- 
fined to a marine habitat. 

The living Brachyurans are so generally of marine habitat that in the 
absence of any conflicting evidence geologists are usually disposed to 
regard all those strata as of marine origin which contain fossil remains 
referable to this division of the Crustacea, but the following facts show- 
that this exclusive view is not admissible. The greater part, if not all 
of one subfamily, the Thelphusinia, are either denizens of Iresh waters 
or live a large part of the time upon the land in the vicinity of fresh 
waters. Some species of the Grapsoidea, although most of them are 
marine, also have a similar range and peculiarity of habitat while 
others are apparently confined to brackish waters. Many of the marine 
as well as of the fresh-water species of the Grapsoidea range more or 
less upon the land. 

Although it is well to emphasize the fact that most of the species 
and genera of the Brachyurans are typically marine animals, many of 
them besides those already referred to, such, for example, as the genera 
Oallinectes and Panopeus, range into estuaries and bays, some of them 
going into adjacent fresh waters without apparent inconvenience. It 
is also a signittcant fact that of the Brachyurans, as well as of the 
Macrurans which inhabit fresh waters, many more are found in flnvia- 
tile and palustral than in lacustrine waters. 

The range of habitat of the Anomoura is similar to that of the Brach- 
yura. Most of them live in waters of full marine saltness, some 
inhabit brackish waters, some wander inland, and one genus, iEglea, 
is nearly or quite confined to fresh waters. It is thus apparent that 
the discovery of fossil remains of a representative of this group of Crus- 
taceans in a given formation would not necessarily be proof of its marine 
origin. 

The Macrura as a whole have a wide range of aquatic habitat, most 
of them living in marine waters, many in fresh waters, and some of 
them venturing occasionally upon the land. 

The family Astacidse proper, or crayfish, are all denizens of fresh 
water, while those similar genera which were formerly referred to this 
family are confined to a marine habitat, with the probable exception 
that some of them range into brackish waters. Although many of the 
Astacida? burrow in wet earth at considerable distances from any body 
of water, few or none of them wander so far upon the land as do some 
of the Brachyura or even some of the Anomoura. 

The Crangonida- are generally of marine habitat, but some range into 
brackish waters. 

Most if not all the Atyidre inhabit fresh waters. 

Many of the Pahemonidie are restrictei to marine waters, many live 
in brackish waters, and several genera are confined to fresh waters, 
some of them living in rivers far from the sea. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 355 

As a rule the Penseidse inhabit marine waters, but sonic of the spe- 
cies are known to range into fluviatile waters. 

The Stomatopoda have considerable range of habitat. Some of the 
Mysidae range from marine into brackish waters, and at least one spe- 
cies is found in inland fresh waters. 

The Squillidae are, as a rule, marine forms, but some of them range 
into brackish waters. 

The greater part of the Isopoda inhabit marine waters, but many 
genera are confined to fresh waters, while all the members of one family, 
the Oniscidae, are of terrestrial habitat. A considerable number of 
genera also range into brackish water. 

All known members of the Anisopoda are denizens of marine waters. 

A considerable proportion of the species and many genera of the 
Amphipoda are denizens of fresh water while most of the others are 
confined to a marine habitat, many ranging into brackish waters. 

Tbe subclass Entomostraca embraces a greater proportion of denizens 
of nonmarine waters than does the subclass Malacostraca. They are 
also of special interest to the geologist because representatives of at 
least one suborder are found in much earlier formations than are any 
members of the other subclass. 

The Girripedia are so generally regarded by geologists as being ex- 
clusively denizens of marine waters, or of those which are of nearly 
full marine saltness, that they rarely hesitate to accept the presence of 
fossil remains of any crustacean referable to this order in any forma- 
tion as evidence of its marine origin. One species of Balanus, how- 
ever, has been found in comparative abundance ranging from marine 
waters far up the St. John's river in Florida, and thriving there in 
fresh water. This case is apparently as exceptional as that, for exam- 
ple, of the Teredinoid and Arcoid mollusks in the lower Ganges and of 
Selachian fishes in Lake Nicaragua, but it may be that other similar 
cases will be found among the Girripedia. Still, in the absence of con- 
flicting evidence geologists are probably justified in regarding Cirriped 
remains as indicating marine conditions. 

The Copepoda are mostly minute animals, and inhabit both fresh and 
salt waters. They are usually provided with a ehitiuous or membra- 
nous covering which, with few exceptions, is too delicate to be well 
preserved in sediments after the death of the animal. It is probable, 
therefore, that few fossil remains of these animals have ever become 
fossilized, and these are likely to escape discovery because of their 
minuteness and delicacy. 

Various forms of the bivalve Crustacea constituting the Ostracoda 
are found in both fresh and marine waters, and also in the brackish 
water of estuaries. They are often gregarious, immense numbers being 
often found together. Their former abundance was also great, as is 
shown by the multitudes of fossil forms that are sometimes found in 
the sedimentary rocks of various ages. 



356 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Most of the Phyllopoda inhabit fresh waters, but some live in marine, 
and some in brackish waters. They are mostly small or minute Crus- 
taceans but being gregarious they are often found together in great 
numbers. Their paleontologicai value is similar to that of the Ostra- 
coda except that the latter are more prevalent in the paleozoic forma- 
tions. 

Nearly or quite all the Crustacea of the earlier geological ag-3S are 
referable to the subclass Gigantostraca, but its living representatives 
are only the Xiphosura, and these are confined to two species of the 
genus Limnlus. Although the Malacostraca are more conspicuously 
abundant than all other living Crustaceans, fossil remains referable to 
any divisions of this subclass are comparatively rare in strata of any 
age and none have been found in rocks of earlier than Carboniferous 
age. On the contrary, the Gigantostraca, which are represented by 
only two known living species, existed in great abundance in the Cam- 
brian, Silurian and Devonian ages, when they were represented by 
numerous genera and families, especially of the trilobites. 

It is therefore evident that a knowledge of the different kinds of 
aquatic habitat of living crustaceans affords little direct information 
concerning that of those which lived daring the three earlier geological 
ages just mentioned. Consequently all the obtainable evidence of this 
kind is derived from the remains of their fauna! associates. Much the 
greater proportion of all those ancient crustaceans, including all of the 
trilobites, are thus assumed to have lived in marine waters, but the 
usual absence of immediately associated forms that can be with cer- 
tainty assigned to either a marine or nonmarine origin has left in 
doubt the question as to the character of the water in which others of 
the Gigantostraca lived. 

Annelida. — The members of this class which possess such skeletal or 
protective parts as are most likely to resist decomposition are the Tubi- 
cola, all of which secrete a shell, usually calcareous, much resembling 
the shells of gasteropod mollusks. They are all denizens of saline 
waters, mostly those of the open ocean. By means of the partly chiti- 
nous covering of certain of the Errautia or roving worms, their bodily 
form may occasionally be preserved after the death of the animal in the 
sediments which formed its habitat while living; and their presence in 
such sediments is often indicated by their burrows when the animals 
themselves are not discovered. 

So generally are the Annelida denizens of marine waters that the 
presence of the remains or burrows of any of them in a geological for- 
mation is regarded by geologists as indicating its marine orig u. 

CCELENTERATA. 

The Hydrozoa only of the somewhat numerous orders embraced in 
this subkingdom are represented in fresh waters. These fresh water 
representatives are all minute, and are not furnished with skeletal parts 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 357 

such as would be likely to be preserved in a fossil state. Therefore it 
is not to be expected that fossil remains referable to the Ccelenterata 
will be found in any formation of fresh -water origin. 

The marine subclasses Siphonophora, Discophora, and Lucernarida, 
as well as many members of the class Actinozoa, are also all destitute 
of such skeletal parts as are likely to long- resist decomposition after 
the death of the animal. It is an interesting - fact that unmistakable 
imprints of the bodies of Codenterata belonging or related to the jelly- 
fishes have been found in certain geological strata composed of ex- 
tremely hue sediments; but, as a rule, the geologists can not hope to 
discover any fossil traces of animals which in life were not furnished 
with such skeletal or integumentary parts as would resist the decompo- 
sition of their soft parts after death. While the bodies of many of the 
Ccelenterata are wholly of this soft character, a large proportion of them 
are furnished with stony skeletal parts, the most conspicuous examples 
of which are the numerous kinds of corals. Others are furnished with 
corneous or chitinous coverings or supports which are sometimes found 
fossilized. So characteristic; are these Actinozoa of marine waters that 
the geologist does not hesitate to accept as of marine origin any forma- 
tion containing fossil corals, which are the skeletal parts of such 
animals. 

PROTOZOA. 

Of the Protozoa only the orders Foraminifera, Eadiolaria, and Spon- 
gida need be mentioned in this review, because only representatives of 
these orders secrete such hard parts as are likely to be preserved in a 
fossil state. Much the greater portion of the Protozoa are microscopic- 
ally minute, but the sponges and some other forms are frequently of 
large size. The Protozoa live in both fresh and marine waters, but 
they are so very much more abundant in the latter that the discovery 
of their remains in a geological formation is usually taken as indicat- 
ing its marine origin. 

PLANTS. 

( Jompared with the fossil remains of animals very little direct infor- 
mation can be obtained from those of plants as to the character of the 
water in which the formations containing them were deposited. 

The siliceous remains of diatoms often constitute layers of consider- 
able thickness among the sedimentary rocks, but because they are 
found in both marine and nonmarine deposits, and because of the 
special character of their classification, they are not definitely referred 
to in these discussions. 

All seaweeds or marine plants are far more simple in structure than 
land plants and their composition is such as to insure their rapid de- 
composition. This character has prevented their fossilization in the 
sediments of formerly existing seas in such a condition as to be of any 
considerable value in paleontological study. The case is somewhat 



358 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

different as regards palustral plants, the character of most of wliich 
may usually be accepted as trustworthy evidence of their nonmariue 
habitat. Still, the remains of land plants, like those of land animals, 
are far more likely "to have found the quiet entombment necessary to 
their preservation in the sediments of nonmarine than in those of 
marine waters, because the former waters were surrounded by the land 
upon which the plants grew, and because the nonmariue sediments 
receiving such remains are, as a rule, not subject to the destructive 
littoral wash which usually prevails along sea borders. 

The following facts and assumptions have a direct bearing upon the 
foregoing statements and discussions and upon their practical applica- 
tion to geological investigation. 

The various bodies of water which existed during geological time, 
and which constituted the habitat of aquatic animals, were of the same 
kinds that now exist, namely, marine and fresh, together with those of 
the various intervening grades of saltness. Although it is probable 
that the marine waters of early geological time were not so salt as 
those of the present oceans, it is believed that this difference in salt- 
ness has not been so great as to make any appreciable difference as to 
legitimate conclusions of the kind that have been indicated on pre- 
ceding pages. It seems to be especially evident that this difference 
has been thus inappreciable since the close of paleozoic time, since 
which time the greater part of the known unmistakably nonmarinc 
formations were deposited. 

Existing bodies of water are constantly depositing materials similar 
to those of which the sedimentary rocks are composed. 

In past geological epochs the habits of animals of a given character 
and structure were the same as those of similar now living animals, 
and they lived under conditions similar to those which are congenial 
and necessary to their now living congeners. Also in those epochs 
plants of a given character lived under conditions similar to those 
which are necessary to the corresponding kinds of now living plants. 

Those animals alone which are furnished with organs for aqueous 
respiration can be confidently relied upon as indicating the character 
of the water in which they respectively lived. 

Thus, if all the known now living members of a given family are con- 
lined to marine, or to fresh waters, as the case may be, it is assumed 
that the habitat of the extinct members of such families were similarly 
restricted, and that the presence of fossil remains of such animals in a 
given formation is, in the absence of conflicting facts, sufficient evi- 
dence of its marine origin on the one hand or of its fresh-water origin 
on the other. Again, if a given family is known to have representa- 
tives now living in marine, brackish, and fresh waters, respectively, it 
is assumed that it had a similar range of habitat during past geolog- 
ical epochs. Therefore, the discovery in a given formation of fossil re- 
mains of a single representative of a family having such a varied range 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 359 

of habitat is not of itself sufficient to enable one to decide whether it 
was of marine, brackish, or fresh water origin, and other evidence 
must be sought. 

The evidence upon which criteria of the character of formerly exist- 
ing bodies of water are based is usually more or less direct, but it is 
sometimes cumulative and concurrent in its character. Still, when 
properly applied, the latter kind of evidence is usually nearly or quite 
as valuable as if it were absolute and direct. 

The criteria of past aqueous conditions which are discussed in this 
essay are of course only such as may be derived from sedimentary 
formations and their contents. It can not be said that there are any 
fully trustworthy physical criteria because a nonmarine formation 
rarely presents any condition of stratification, or any lithological 
character, which is not observable in some marine formations. Still, 
there are many more or less valuable indications which may be ob- 
served and to some degree relied upon in the absence of fossil remains. 

For example, although considerable accumulations of calcareous 
strata are sometimes found among the generally arenaceous strata of 
fresh water formations they have never been found to contain any im- 
portant accumulations of regularly bedded limestones. Furthermore, 
estuarine deposits are often still more of a detrital character than are 
fresh-water formations and also they more rarely contain calcareous 
layers. Therefore if one should encounter a series of regularly bedded 
limestones, either magnesian or fully calcareous, he will rarely, if ever, 
be at fault in regarding them as of marine origin even without biologi- 
cal evidence. 

In a large proportion of the nonmarine formations the stratification 
is less regular than is usually the case with marine formations. Still, 
this by no means is a certain criterion, and in some cases nonmarine 
formations are found to rest so conformably upon the marine and to 
be so conformably overlain by them as to give little indication of the 
great difference in the condition of their origin. 

The foregoing examples show how indefinite is the character of physi- 
cal evidence as to the past aqueous conditions under which the various 
sedimentary formations have been produced, but they serve to empha- 
size a statement of the fact that almost entire reliance must be placed 
upon the evidence furnished by fossil remains. 

With reference to general indications of difference between marine 
and nonmarine formations which are furnished by their fossil remains 
we observe that a conspicuous difference lies in the comparative abun- 
dance and variety of forms of life which the fossil faunas of the for- 
mations respectively represent. Marine waters have always teemed 
with life in a wonderful variety of forms, and their fossil remains are 
proportionally abundant. The variety is less in brackish waters and 
least of all in lacustrine waters. It is true that ichthyic life is abun- 
dant in some fresh waters, but never so generally abundant or so 



360 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

various as in marine waters. It is also true that molluscan life is 
often locally abundant in shallow fresh waters, but, as already several 
times mentioned, the variety is extremely meager. All these peculiar- 
ities are distinctly observable among- the fossil faunas of the non- 
marine formations. 

Other general indications of difference between marine and non- 
marine formations are furnished by remains of laud plants and animals. 
Open-sea formations are naturally free from any vegetal remains de- 
rived from the land, although coal and other materials of vegetal origin 
are not unfrequently found alternating with layers containing marine 
fossil remains. These, however, as explained on a preceding page, are 
regarded as cases of emergence of the bottom of shallow sea waters and 
the subsequent subsidence of the same as plant laden marshy land. It 
is a matter of fact, the reason for which has been suggested in preced- 
ing essays, that plant remains of any kind, especially such as are in 
a classifiable condition, have so rarely been found associated with re- 
mains of denizens of marine waters that the discovery of fossil plants 
in any formation is of itself presumptive evidence of its nonmarine 
origin. 

It has already been shown on preceding pages that the remains of 
land animals have so seldom reached marine waters or, having reached 
them, they were probably so generally destroyed by the triturating 
action of coast waves that the discovery of any of this kind of fossil 
remains in any formation may also be regarded as presumptive evidence 
of its nonmarine origin. 

The foregoing statements have been made with reference to indica- 
tions which are either of a general character or without direct relation 
to the quality of the waters in which sedimentary formations have been 
deposited. All the direct evidence, as already has been fully stated, 
is derivable from the fossil remains of the denizens, especially the gill- 
bearing kinds, of the waters in which were deposited the formations' 
under investigation. 

Referring to the foregoing review of the animal kingdom, including 
the tables which it embraces, it will be seen that a large number of 
families of both fishes and invertebrates are confined to a marine hab' 
itat, and that every member of even some of the higher divisions is ; 
similarly restricted. For example, every known member of the classes' 
Cephalopoda and Brachiopoda is confined to a marine habitat. It will! 
also be seen that a certain small number of families, especially of the' 
mollusca, are equally restricted to fresh waters. The significance of ' 
such cases ns these lias already been pointed out, but it is desirable to> 
refer to them again. 

Fossil remains representing any one of these kinds of animals may 
be taken as positive evidence of the quality of the water in which was 
deposited the formation containing them, provided there shall be no 
room for reasonable doubt that the animals were really denizens of 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 361 

that water. That is, caution is necessary even in these more positive 
cases, especially when the amount of discovered fossil material is mea- 
gre. 

Not only caution but the exercise of careful judgment is necessary 
in other cases. For example, it will also be seen by referring to the 
foregoing review that certain families, while most of its members are 
confined to one kind of water, may have one or more representatives 
in other kinds, and again that certain families may have representa- 
tives in all the known kinds of habitable waters. In such cases as these 
it is plain that all evidence afforded by fossil remains to be of any 
value must be corroborated by other evidence. 

Still, the cases are very few in which serious doubt need be enter- 
tained as to the true character of the water in which a given formation 
was deposited. This is especially true if the fossil remains are suffi- 
cient in quantity and perfection to approximately represent the whole 
fauna that lived in those waters. Indeed, if the facts which are re- 
corded on the preceding pages are borne in mind there need be no more 
doubt as to what was the quality of the water in which any given for- 
mation was deposited than might arise concerning any other geological 
observation. 



362 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM 1892. 



VIII. THE CLAIMS OF GEOLOGICAL SCIENCE UPON INVESTIGATORS, 

MUSEUMS, ETC. 

With reference to the ordinary pursuits; of life it can hardly be said 
that, aside from a natural demand for respectable emulation, one's 
occupation has any claims upon him other than those which are either 
conventionally or legally imposed by society upon every one of its 
members. The geological investigator, however, is not only amenable 
to all such claims but to others of a different nature which, although 
not enforceable by legal, and unfortunately not yet by conventional, 
penalties are not less imperative in their character. 

These claims upon the investigator will be presented in the following 
paragraphs, but it is well to remark here that they are by no means an 
abridgement of his rights as an individual, because he has no rights 
with relation to science which the latter does not confer. It is true 
that the legal right of personal ownership of scientific material and 
the abstract right of independent investigation can not be questioned 
from the standpoint of the ordinary affairs of life, but it is my purpose 
to show that the individual investigator owes an allegiance to science 
which demands at least a modification of the privilege of asserting 
those rights. That is, I propose to show that because the general 
advancement of geological science must be accomplished and its integ- 
rity maintained by the cooperation of a multitude of workers in the 
various branches of investigation, its claims are superior to those of 
the individual, and that he can not exclusively assert the rights referred 
to without material disadvantage to science. Indeed, he can not do so 
without lessening, and to some extent destroying, the value of his own 
labors. 

Much might be said in favor of the demands which may be made in 
the name of science upon the individual on the ground of justice and 
of moral and social ethics, but I shall omit all considerations of this kind 
and refer only to those claims which are supported by the urgent neces- 
sities of science itself. Claims of the kind referred to might be made 
in favor of all the various divisions of science, but I shall on the pres- 
ent occasion confine my discussions to those which pertain to biological 
geology, including both its structural and systematic branches. With 
reference to the manner in which the subject of this essay is pre- 
sented it is proper to say that the homilitic form has not been adopted 
merely from personal preference, but because I believe it to be in the 
present case a proper and effective, if an indirect, method of calling 
attention to prevalent errors, and of suggesting necessary improve 
ments in certain prevalent methods. 

These claims of science will be considered not only with reference to 
the individual investigator, but to associations, museums, and geolog- 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 363 

ical organizations. Those which may be* made upon the individual 
investigator relate to the manner of prosecuting his work and of pub- 
lishing its results, and also to his final disposition of the evidence upon 
which his conclusions are based. Claims upon associations or societies 
relate to the character and methods of publication; those upon muse- 
ums, to the conservation and installation of fossil remains and of the 
records pertaining to them; and those upon organizations, to the pres- 
ervation of the integrity of geological science. 

Among the necessities of geological science which require the enforce- 
ment of these claims are those which arise from its extensive range, 
the interrelation of its various branches, and the cumulative character 
of the evidence upon which it is based. Its extensive range makes it 
impossible that any one investigator should compass more than a small 
part of the whole field, the interrelation of its branches requires that 
each branch should be investigated with direct reference to all the 
others, and the cumulative character of the evidence which constitutes 
its foundation requires that every item of that evidence should be con- 
ventionally judged. These conditions shoir that it is the public and 
not the individual that must be the final arbiter of all questions per- 
taining to the results of investigation. It is, therefore, essential that 
the public should be furnished with all the evidence upon which the 
individual reaches his conclusions, and that this evidence should be so 
preserved as to be accessible to all investigators. 

In all such arbitrations a clear distinction must necessarily be made 
between evidence and testimony. The former rests upon facts and is 
therefore intrinsically infallible. The latter rests only upon individual 
judgment and is in every case liable to be modified even by its authors, 
and to be questioned, if not opposed, by others. Facts observed and 
recorded, and material collected and preserved, constitute a perpetual 
source of evidence, but personal authority can have no permanently 
exclusive or dominant place with relation to geological science, and 
acceptable personal responsibility for published conclusions and an- 
nouncements of discovery must be confined to those which are sup- 
ported by tangible evidence and by reference to all obtainable funda- 
mental and relevant facts. 

In biological geology the principal evidence necessary to be obtained 
is of two kinds, biological material in the form of fossil remains, and 
stratigraphic conditions with relation to geological structure and gen- 
eral stratigraphic classification. The fossil remains must necessarily 
be collected for study, and science justly demands that they should be 
placed where they will ever after be accessible to all investigators. It 
is also essential that observations of stratigraphical conditions should 
be made iu immediate connection with the collection of fossil remains, 
and that such observations and collections should in all cases be 
so recorded and published that every locality may be readily revisited 
and identified, and every observation repeated by any other observer. 



364 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

In short, it is essential that the public should be furnished with the 
same means of judging of the significance of all the facts and condi- 
tions that may be reported by an original, or any other, observer that 
they have themselves employed. It is largely with reference to the 
collection and conservation of the kinds of evidence referred to that 
the claims of biological geology are here presented. 

In considering the claims of science upon the individual it is desir- 
able to make some reference to the amateur as well as to the special 
investigator. This recognition of nonprofessional work is desirable 
because the general subject of geology has acquired such a hold upon 
the popular mind and the opportunities for making observations with 
relation to it are everywhere so common that in every civili7A*d coun- 
try there is a multitude of persons who are in the habit of making more 
or less critical observations. Notwithstanding the usually limited and 
desultory character 'of such observations, they have often contributed 
materially to the general fund of geological knowledge, especially when 
accompanied by a faithful record and preservation of evidence. Indeed 
some of the most valuable facts in geology have been brought out by 
amateur observers, who themselves were hardly conscious that they had 
made their way alone to the frontier of acquired knowledge; and from 
the ranks of such observers have arisen many of the leaders in geologi- 
cal investigation. 

Although only a small proportion of amateur observers can hope to 
accomplish so much as this, it is proper to assume that a very large pro- 
portion of them desire to contribute all they can to the advancement 
of science. These will therefore be included with other individual in- 
vestigators in presenting the claims of science upon them, but for 
obvious reasons no reference need be made to those whose attention is 
directed to geology by mere curiosity or the desire for pecuniary gain. 
In the following remarks concerning the claims of science upon the in- 
dividual the amateur will readily perceive what portions of them are 
applicable to himself. 

It has been shown in the preceding essays that systematic geology 
could have no existence without the use of fossil remains, and also that 
without their use structural geology would be reduced to mere local 
and disconnected studies. It has also been shown that to arrive at a 
just estimate of the value of fossil remains in these branches of geology 
they must be thoroughly and systematically studied as representatives 
of faunas and floras as well as tokens of the formations in which they 
are found. The proper collection and preservation of fossil remains is 
therefore a subject of the greatest importance. In view of these facts 
it is the plain duty of every geologist upon beginning a piece of held 
work in structural geology to accompany every step of his examina- 
tion of the strata by as full a collection as possible of the contained 
fossils and to preserve them, together with notes recording the results 
of his observations and a statement of all the facts relevant thereto. 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 365 

If it were practicable to obtain from these fossils at sight all the infor- 
mation which they are capable of conveying, and if the judgment of 
every collector were so infallible that no cooperation by other observers 
and no final arbitration by the scientific public were necessary, it 
would not be essential to the successful prosecution of held work that 
fossils should be collected and preserved. But this is only a negative 
method of stating the imperative necessity of making full collections of 
fossils in the prosecution of investigations in structural geology and of 
preserving them for future reference. 

Fossils thus collected and the facts concerning them recorded become 
invested with a value which differs materially from that which is pos- 
sessed by ordinary property, and the claims of science upon them and 
upon the investigator with relation to them at once begin. These 
claims, as just intimated, require that a careful descriptive record be 
made of the stratigraphies! conditions under which the'fossils are found, 
including a directive record of the locality and designation of the 
stratum from which they were obtained. They also require that these 
records should be inviolably preserved and made inseparable from every 
specimen by indices that shall be as intelligible to other investigators 
as to the original observer. 

Aside from the claims of science such precaution is necessary, because 
reliance upon memory alone is always unsafe in the most favorable 
cases, and it can at best give rise only to such oral traditions as are 
out of place in scientific work. The immediate preparation of the 
records and indices just mentioned is also necessary, because, while 
every specimen is at all times competent to impart to an investigator all 
obtainable knowledge of its own character, it can of itself convey no 
information as to its original locality and stratigraphic position. With 
this information secured for a collection of fossils they maybe made at 
all times available as aids to scientific research not only by the collector, 
but by all other investigators. 

The claims of science also require that immediately upon the com- 
pletion of the original study of fossils thus collected and recorded 
they shall be placed where they will be freely accessible to the scien- 
tific public, and that reference to their place of deposit shall be made 
in connection with their publication. It is needless to say that the 
only suitable places for such deposit are public museums. It is only 
when this indispensable evidence is thus made accessible that the public 
can exercise that arbitration over the accumulated results of the labors 
of investigators which has been shown to be imperative. 

The preparation and publication of complete records concerning the 
locality and strata from which fossil remains are obtained are necessary 
even from a biological point of view alone, especially when those remains 
are studied with reference to the range of organic forms in time, and 
without such records fossil remains are comparatively worthless as aids 
in geological investigation. It is unfortunately true that a not uuimpor- 



366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

taut proportion of the paleontological material contained in our best 
museums is without these essential records, and that many of the publi- 
cations containing descriptions and illustrations of fossil remains give no 
satisfactory information as to the localities and strata from which they 
were obtained or of the final disposition of the specimens. In such cases 
those authors and collectors have evidently assumed to decide for 
themselves and for scieuce the exact taxonomic position in the geolog- 
ical scale <>f the strata from which their fossils came. In omitting such 
records as have been referred to they seem to have considered any 
information unnecessary that would enable the scientific public to 
repeat their observations upon their specimens or those which they 
may have made in the field, or to learn the biological characteristics of 
the formations from which their collections were obtained other than 
those which may be suggested by their own partial collections and their 
necessarily imperfect descriptions. It is doubtless true that such omis- 
sions have been largely due to an honest lack of appreciation on the 
part of authors and collectors of the importance of preserving such 
records, but it is to be feared that in some important cases the omis- 
sions or suppressions have been intentional. In the former class of 
cases the fact can only be deplored, but in the latter every geologist is 
justified in feeling that a crime has been committed against science. 

The claims of geological science upon associations and societies are 
so generally and justly recognized that only the one which relates to 
the manner of publishing the results of investigation need be referred 
to in this connection, and this reference will be confined to the necessity 
of enforcing the claims upon individual investigators which have al- 
ready been discussed. This claim may be sufficiently indicated by ref- 
erence to those last mentioned, and by the remark that if it is the duty 
of individuals to publish records of their observations in the manner 
that has been stated, it is plainly the duty of those persons Avho maybe 
in charge of the means of publication to refuse to publish the writings 
of those authors who do not conform to that requirement. 

The facts and principles which have been stated in the preceding 
essays fully warrant the statements made on foregoing pages of this 
one, that individual authority can have no existence with relation to 
geological science, that the public must be the final arbiter of all ques- 
tions concerning the value of proposed contributions to its advance- 
ment, and that a public exposition should be made of the evidence upon 
which any contribution to biological geology is based. In accordance 
with the last-named requirement it is necessary to consider the claims 
of this branch of science upon museums, the force of which is apparent 
when it is remembered that the material pertaining to it therein stored 
constitutes the vital evidence of the value of all contributions to its 
advancement, and that without such evidence this branch of science 
would be reduced to a mass of personal testimony. 

In view of the great scientific value of fossil remains the following 



RELATION OF BIOLOGY TO GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. 367 

remarks are offered concerning the precautions which are necessary in 
their preservation. Tt is true that most if not all these precautions 
arc observed in a large part of the principal scientific museums of the 
world, but it is also true that much remissness in this respect has 
occurred in others. Besides the propriety of referring to the latter fact, 
these remarks are necessary to complete my statement of the claims of 
science which constitute the subject of this essay. 

Three general classes of specimens of fossil remains should be rec- 
ognized in museum collections, namely, typical, authenticated, and 
unauthenticated. Under the head of typical or type specimens arc 
included not only those which have been described and figured in any 
publication, whether original or otherwise, but those which have in any 
public manner been so used or referred to. While all such specimens 
as these should at all times be accessible to any competent investiga- 
tor, the risk of loss or injury is so great that they should in no case be 
allowed to be taken from the museum building in which they are in- 
stalled. Such specimens are in a peculiar sense unique, and there can 
be no substitution and no equivalent in value. Their loss greatly re- 
duces the value of every publication any part of which is based upon 
them, and to that extent retards the advancement of science. It is not 
enough that other, and even better, specimens of presumably the same 
species may be discovered; the former constitute the original, the latter 
only supposititious evidence. Besides the risk of loss or injury to type 
specimens by removal from the place of their installment their absence 
is a disadvantage to science. That is, no one investigator should be 
allowed their use to the exclusion of any other. 

The term u authenticated specimens" is here applied to such as have 
been studied and annotated by competent investigators and properly 
installed. Such material constitutes the bulk of every important mu- 
seum collection, and next to the type specimens already mentioned 
they are most valuable. Their increased value is due to the scientific 
labor that has been bestowed upon them, and it needs only the addi- 
tional labor of publication to constitute them type specimens and to 
make them of like value. Authenticated specimens when installed are 
ready aids to all investigators of such value that even the temporary 
removal of any of them from a public museum is, to say the least, of 
doubtful expediency. 

Unauthenticated specimens are, of course, those which have not been 
studied and installed, and they constitute the great mass of material 
from which authenticated and type specimens are drawn. Among 
them are those which constitute the material evidence upon which 
original observations in biological geology are based. If these are 
accompanied by the records and descriptive notes which on a preceding 
page have been shown to be essential to their value, they constitute 
proper material for acceptance by museum authorities, but if not their 
installment should be refused, whatever their character may be. That 



368 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

is, to apply a statement made in another connection, no specimen of 
fossil remains should be admitted to permanent installation in any pub- 
lic museum which is not accompanied by such a record of the locality 
and stratum from which it was obtained as will enable any investiga- 
tor to revisit the same. In every case of installment such records 
should be so connected with every specimen as to be readily accessi- 
ble, and so arranged that the danger of loss or disconnection shall be 
reduced to a minimum. 

The foregoing discussion of the claims of science upon museums is 
intended to embrace reference only to those which are devoted to the 
preservation of material pertaining to biological geology, but they are 
of more or less general applicability. These partial claims alone dem- 
onstrate the important relation that museums hold to science and to 
civilization as centers of learning and conservatories of the evidence 
concerning acquired knowledge. Museums should not only be made 
safe treasure-houses of science, but they should be what their name 
implies — temples of study — perpetually open to all investigators. 

The claims of science upon geological organizations can not be dis- 
cussed at length in this essay,, but because the ratio of power for the 
advancement or retardation of science possessed by such organizations 
is so much greater than that of individuals working independently, it 
is desirable to make this brief reference to them. That power increases 
also with the ratio of the extent of the organization, and it is largely 
centered in the director. His responsibility, especially if his organi- 
zation is a large one, is peculiar, and, to himself, of an unfortunate 
character. That is, while all or nearly all the advancement of science 
that may be accomplished by the organization is the work of his subor- 
dinates, retardation, if it should occur, is mainly due to his failure to 
require that each branch of investigation should be prosecuted in ac- 
cord with all others, and the case would be little less than disastrous 
should he himself favor ex parte methods or fail to require a symmetrical 
development of the work in his charge. The claims of science upon 
geological organizations are therefore really claims upon their directors, 
and they are more responsible than any other class of persons for the 
preservation of the integrity of geological science. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 

(BASED ON A STUDY OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT COLLEC- 
TIONS. ) 



By R. W. Shufeldt. M. D. 



in a valued communication, dated January 16, 1<S98, the present 
writer was honored by a request from the United States National 
Museum to furnish to it a paper upon what may briefly be termed 
"scientific taxidermy" in its widest sense. My attention was espe- 
cially invited to the progress that had been made in the art of taxi- 
dermy, as exemplified on the part of the various methods used in the 
preparation of, and the modes of mounting - resorted to, in the case 
of all kinds of animals for museum exhibition. It was proposed 
that in a general way this study should review the field, in so far as 
the collections contained in the IT. S. National Museum and Smith- 
sonian Institution were concerned, from those times when specimens of 
mounted animals were first being - made by those institutions to the day 
when the opening of the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago per- 
mitted people to see, in the varied groups and single examples of pre- 
served animals from nearly every department in nature sent there, 
what could be accomplished in such matters through the operations of 
skilled moderns in the taxidermic art. What was expected of me was 
further definitely defined, in the letter to which reference is made above, 
in the following words : " We should like to have your unbiased opinion 
of the different pieces and kinds of work, whether favorable or unfavor- 
able, and should be glad to have you indicate, so far as you feel dis- 
posed to do so, what lines of work, in your opinion, promise the best 
results if carried further, and what you think should be abandoned." 
This injunction, when faithfully performed in the ease of any art what 
soever, is the only proper test of our progress in it. and it is through 
comparison alone of early accomplishments, work recently performed, 
and what is being done in the particular line at the moment, that we 
can inform ourselves precisely where we stand. Very soon it became 
possible for me to direct my attention to this matter, and a preliminary 
overlook of the field convinced me that my chief duty lay in making 
just criticism of the results attained on the part of the artist in tax- 
idermy, rather than an enumeration and description of all the details of 
H. Mis. 1 11, pt. 2 24 369 



370 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

technique of that art. Much that refers to the last-named class of work 
has been and will be shortly still more thoroughly set forth iu certain 
papers and reports published by the National Museum. Some valuable 
instructions of that kind, I understand, are in press at the present 
writing, and ere long the scientific taxidermist will have before him 
all that refers to correct methods of the mounting of animals, as well 
as plastic modeling and everything that has any bearing thereupon. 

The present paper, then, will have little or nothing to do with what 
might properly be called the chemistry and mechanics of taxidermy, 
but will rather deal with it from the standpoint of the art student and 
biologist. At some points these two lines, however, converge, but never 
distinctly intersect each other; and my chief object will have been 
attained, if this paper proves itself to be a useful adjunct to the others 
upon kindred hues of inquiry. Properly, it will fill the place of the last 
of the series, for the reasons that have just been stated. 

History goes to show that there has been just as much of an evolu- 
lution, of progressive advancement, in the science and art of taxidermy 
as there has been in the case of the necessity for, the growth and im- 
provement in the building of, the stocking, and the management of 
museums. To a very large extent these two developments have been 
pari passu in nature, and, in one sense, they are quite dependent upon 
each other. To instance my meaning, it maybe said that a handsome, 
instructive, and scientifically preserved group of animals may utterly 
fail of a useful purpose by being placed upon exhibition in some poorly 
lighted, indifferently ventilated, and otherwise unsuitable museum-hall; 
while on the other hand no amount of architectural beauty andperfect- 
ness in the latter will ever serve to shield a group of animals that have 
been mounted by a person ignorant in all the departments of scientific 
taxidermy, from the criticism that work of that kind is sure to have 
continually poured down upon it by the intelligent natural historian. 

It can be shown, then, that the taxidermic art, as in the case of all 
the arts and sciences, has had its dawn, having been nursed in a cradle 
of crude beginnings, far back in history, and since which time it has 
enjoyed a very remarkable career of development. To me there is no 
doubt but what it came into being with such pristine pursuits as pre- 
historic tanning, the embalming of the human body, and those of cer- 
tain domestic animals as the cats and dogs found in prehistoric remains 
of Egypt and elsewhere. Sure it is that Hanno, the very ancient Car- 
thaginian navigator, in the record that he has left us of his African ex- 
plorations, made five centuries before Christ, gives an account of his 
discovery of the gorilla, and "having killed and flayed them, we con- 
veyed their skins to Carthage." There they were preserved for many 
generations, and are, no doubt, the Gorgones described by Pliny (140 
B.C.). 

Our own Pueblan Indians, as the Zunians and others, make very 
good "flat skins" of small birds to-day, an art no doubt traceable in 



•SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 371 

them to the Mexicans, and the latter have probably practiced it for 
ages. 

Montezuma, as stated by Cortez, possessed robes covered with the 
skins of the Trogan and other brilliantly plumaged birds. From the 
making of these flat skins for personal ornament to the desire to pre- 
serve in their natural appearance similar forms, as well as other small 
animals of all kinds, for the ornamentation of habitations, is both easy 
to be imagined, and very probable what took place. Gradually there 
was a demand for that kind of work, and it fell to the hands of those 
most skilled in its performance. They were the early taxidermists. 
Before specialization was ever dreamed of for the early arts of whatso- 
ever kind, there always, so history teaches, existed a kind of an affinity 
bonding more or less closely together, the naturalist, the medical man, 
and the conservator of the curious in nature. Shakespeare's portrayal 
of the London apothecary is illustrative of this, within whose 

Needy shop a tortoise bung, 

An alligator stuffed, and other skins 

Of ill-shaped fishes. 

Complete differentiation in certain quarters, in these days of the 
manhood of those sciences, has not as yet been thoroughly brought 
about, and even in some of the old German cities of the present time 
we yet hear of organizations known as " The Society of Naturalists and 
Physicians," and in some of our own late expeditions made under the 
auspices of the Government, the duties of " surgeon and naturalist" 
are relegated to one individual. 

Now, although the mere preserving the skins of animals is an opera 
tion to be easily traced back through nearly all races of people to the 
dawn of history, this does not altogether hold true with the "mount- 
ing" of animals.* 

Taxidermists are quite agreed that this phase of the art is of com- 
paratively quite modern origin. For instance, Montagu Browne has 
remarked that — 

Little is known of the beginnings of the practice of the "stuffing" or "setting 
up" of animals for ornament or for scientific purposes; and it is highly probable, 
from what we gather from old works of travel or natural history, that the art is not 
more than some three hundred years old. It was practiced in England towards the 
end of the seventeenth century, as is proved by the Sloane collection, which in 1725 
formed the nucleus of the collection of natural history now lodged in the galleries 
at South Kensington. 

It was not until the middle of last century that any treatise devoted to the prin- 
ciples of the then little-understood art was published in France, Rea tuner's treatise 
(1719) being probably the first. This was followed at intervals by others in France 
and Germany, until the beginning of the present century, when the English began 

* Probably, as Mr. Goode informs me, the oldest museum specimen in existence is 
a rhinoceros still preserved in the Royal Museum of Vertebrates in Florence. This 
was for a long time a feature of the Medicean Museum in Florence, and was origi- 
nally mounted for the museum of Ulysses Aldrovandus in Bologna. It dates from the 
sixteenth century. 



372 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

to move in the matter, and several works were published, notably those by E. Don- 
ovan,* YV. Swainson,t Capt. Thomas Brown, t and others. These, works, however, 
are now inadequate, and since the Great Exhibition of 1851, when the Germans and 
French taught British taxidermists the rudiments of scientific treatment of natural 
objects, several works have appeared upon the subject from the pens of American 
and English authors, such as J. H. Batty,§R. Ward,|| and Montagu Browne. 51 

That the art is recent was also held by Dr. Holder, who, in an able 
address given before the Society of American Taxidermists, said that 
the— 

First authentic examples in this comparatively new art with which we are fa miliar 
are those produced through the patronage of the Prince Maximilian, of Nieu "Wied, 
Germany. This distinguished naturalist had spent several years in exploring the 
bird region of "North and South America. Equipped with every needful r.ppliance 
for successful research, he included in the personnel of his staff a practical taxider- 
mist, and the numerous species of American birds and mammals, embracing many 
types of great value, testify to the thorough exploration which the Prince accom- 
plished in these regions. It was the good fortune of the American Museum of Nat- 
ural History to come into possession of the entire collection of natural objects which 
formed the well-known museum of this naturalist, and thus, through tins collection, 
we have representations of the earliest period of the art. 

Among the numerous examples contained in the Maximilian collection are a num- 
ber that yet hear the original label in the handwriting of the Prince. The frequent 
occurrence of Meiner Reiser (my journey), accompanied by dates from 1812 upwards, 
a period comprising a full three score years and ten, is recorded testimony of great 
historical value. Unscathed as those specimens are by museum pestB, they present 
a most satisfactory evidence of the reliability of arsenical treatment as a means of 
perpetuation well nigh indefinite. How much earlier the art was practiced we have 
no detinite knowledge. The numerous stuffed skins of reptiles, or rather mummies, 
found in Egyptian tombs naturally claim our notice as perhaps the earliest exam- 
ples.** 

Extending over a very considerable period of duration we next find 
the art of taxidermy passing through a stage of its development, of 
which no end of examples quite parallel with it might be cited from 



* Instructions tor Collecting and Preserving Various Subjects of Natural History, 
London, 1794. 

tThe Naturalist's Guide for Collecting and Preserving Subjects of Natural History 
and Botany, London, 1822. 

i Taxidermist's Manual, Glascow, 1833. 

§ Practical Taxidermy and Home Decoration, New York, 1880. 

|| Sportsman's Handbook of Practical Collecting and Preserving, London, 1880. 

5j Practical Taxidermy, London, 1879, second edition, 1884; also, article Taxidermy, 
Encycl. Brit., ninth edition, vol. xxm, p. 89, from which the above quotation is 
made. 

** J. B. Holder, I >r. Third Annual Report of the Society of American Taxidermists, 
Washington, 1884, p. 40. In this connection it is well worthy of notice that in the 
same report Mr. L. M. McCormick (then of the U. S. National Museum) presents us 
with a most valuable and useful Bibliography of Taxidermy (pp. 91-112), wherein 
the earliest work cited on the art is that of Johann Daniel Geire, which consists of 
merely two pages from the Miscell. Acad. Nat. Curios, entitled " De vernice ad con- 
servanda insecta et aninialia," being published December 2, 1689. Nothing of any 
importance, however, appearing between that date and the well known work of 
Ferchault de Reaum, which was given to the world in 1748. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 373 

tlie early histories of other arts and sciences. Photography and chem- 
istry are excellent instances of it. During the times to which I refer, 
taxidermists both in this country and Europe, with but rare excep- 
tions, could be grouped in two classes — the first, and by far the most 
numerous, was chiefly represented by men coming from the lower 
planes of society, who endeavored to throw as much mystery about 
their operations as possible; in fact, to keep their art a secret one, and 
if divulged at all. only done so at a high figure. The second class, as 
a rule better men socially, consisted of those who seemed to think that 
to either be a taxidermist or even to publish anything on the subject, 
required an humble apology to society. My private library contains 
works illustrative of both these classes. The first is a miserable little 
volume of some thirty pages published by its author, Mr. S. H. Sylves- 
ter, at Middleboro, Mass., in 1865, and entitled "The Taxidermist's 
Manual, giving full instructions in mounting and preservinglnrds [etc.], 
sec. ed. (Price, $1.)." Apart from the ridiculous meagreness of the 
information it affords, a single leading page is entirely devoted to the 
following "suggestion: " 

As common things lose their charm, so is it more particularly in this art. A person 
having this work should not leave it exposed to the eyes of the curious. The same 
caution should he used in the practice. Work by yourself that none may know the 
mysteries of the art, unless they are willing to pay for the information as you your- 
self have done. 

NO less a book than the one published by Capt. Brown illustrates 
the second class to which we have referred.* In his preface this author 
remarks that — 

In the following treatise it has been my object to attend more to rendering the 
meaning clear than to elegance of language; and, besides, to get the work up in a 
style at once creditable and moderate in price, so that it might he generally useful. 
At the same time I have preferred avowing myself the author to publishing the work 
anonymously, being firmly of opinion that no man should publish on a subject which 
he is ashamed to acknowledge, (p. VI.) 

Such a "suggestion" as has been given us by Mr. Sylvester will 
never again appear upon the page of any standard work devoted to 
the art of taxidermy and published by a civilized nation anymore than 
('apt. Brown's thought of apologizing for the admirable little treatise 
which he has given us on the subject will ever be repeated in a similar 
work. Capt. Brown had the less to be u ashamed'' of in his book, for 
in his introduction he places himself upon the record by his observa- 
tions as being one of the very first to sound the keynote, which, swell 
ing through the last quarter of a century, has had its due influence in 
lifting taxidermy from the realm of an ignoble pursuit to the broad 

*Thomas Brown (Capt.), F. L. S.. late president of the Royal Physical Society, 
etc. The Taxidermist's Manual; or. The Art of Collecting, Preparing, and Preserv- 
ing Objects of Natural History, designed for the use of Travelers, Conservators of 
Museums, and Private Collectors. London and Edinburgh, 1870, | Plates vi. pp. 150.) 



374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

platform of one of the most important and exact of all the sciences. 
I refer to the paragraph in which he has said: 

Although considerable advances have been made of late years in the art of taxi- 
dermy, it is still tar from perfection. This is to be attributed, in a great measure, 
to the education of the persons who practice this art; for among all I have met 
with employed in the preservation of animals, none have had the advantage of 
anatomical study, which is quite indispensable to the perfection of stuffing. One or 
two individuals, it is true, have attended to the structure of the skeleton of man 
and a few of the more common animals, but this is far from the information which 
they ought to possess; for nothing short of a general and extensive knowledge of 
comparative anatomy can qualify them sufficiently for an art which is so compre- 
hensive and varied in its application (pp. 2, 3). 

Prophetic words, indeed, and not in a few quarters has the prophecy 
of this distinguished authority been largely fulfilled. More light, how- 
ever, is needed in other places, and in many of our museums of the 
very highest standing the examples of taxidermy they offer us are 
far, very far from our ideal of what they should be. 

Charles Waterton is another worthy name that must not be forgotten 
here, and fully seventy years ago, in his Wanderings in South America, 
he wrote, in his quaint and impressive old style, yet pregnant with 
truth : 

Were you to pay as much attention to birds as the sculptor does to the human frame, 
you would immediately see on entering a museum that the specimens are not well 
done. This remark will not be thought severe, when yon reflect that that which 
was once alive has probably been stretched, stuffed, stiffened, and wired by the 
hand of a common clown. Consider, likewise, how the plumage must have been 
disordered by too much stretching or drying, and, perhaps, sullied, or at least 
deranged, by the pressure of a coarse and heavy hand— plumage which, ere life had 
fled within it, was accustomed to he touched by nothing rougher than the dew of 
heaven and the pure and gentle breath of air. 

These are potent words as coming from the pen of a man who wrote 
them within a year or two of three-quarters of a century ago. Espe- 
cially is this the case when that ingenious naturalist in the same work 
enjoins that — 

If you wish to be in ornithology what Angelo was in sculpture, you must apply to 
profound study and your own genius to assist you. 

You must have a complete knowledge of ornithological anatomy. You must pay 
close attention to the form and attitude of the bird, and know exactly the propor- 
tion each curve, or extension, or contraction, or expansion of any particular part 
bears to the rest of the body. In a word you must possess Promethean boldness, 
and bring down tire and animation, as it were, into your preserved specimen. 

"Repair to the haunts of birds on plains and mountains, forests, 
swamps, and lakes, and give up your time to examine the economy of 
the different orders of birds, " is also the kind of study Waterton 
recommended in L825 to those who desired to preserve birds in their 
strictly natural attitudes as they assumed them in life and in nature. 

Standing almost alone as he did as a sound instructor of the tax- 
idermic art in the fust quarter of the present century, he is represented 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 375 

at this writing, or in the very last part of the century's hist quarter, 
by scores of teachers in Europe and America who entertain precisely 
similar opinions. Not only this, but recruits are rapidly coming- to the 
ranks as time hastens on, and it is quite safe to predict that in another 
century, or even less, the old time "bird- stuffier" will cease to be found 
" in the flesh" among - us. 

Already I have given above, in the words of Montagu Browne, who 
have been the chief promoters of this art in Great Britain; other na- 
tions also have in this way powerfully contributed to the material prog- 
ress of taxidermy. In France the immortal names of Verreaux, Verdey, 
and others had a most beneficial influence; and our own country has 
been by no means backward in this particular. 

Within the past ten years or more the published opinions of a num- 
ber of these writers are the best evidences upon the substantial nature 
of the progress of this science that we can here adduce, and by quot- 
ing some of them I resort to the most effective means in my power to 
illustrate what taxidermy has attained to in those places where its 
standard is now considered to be at the highest plane of its present 
development. 

Turning again to the article Taxidermy, by Mr. Montagu Browne, 
already referred to above, we find him concluding it thus: 

A new school of taxidermy, with new methods, whose aim is to combine knowl- 
edge of anatomy and modeling with taxidermic technique, are now coming to the 
front, and the next generation will discard all processes of "'stuffing" in favor of 
modeling. Within the limits of an article like tbe present it is impossible to do 
more than glance at the intricate processes involved in this. In the case of mam- 
mals, after the skin lias been completely removed, even to the toes, a copy is 
made of the body, posed as in life, and from this an accurate representation of form, 
including delineation of muscles, etc., is built up in light materials; the model is 
then covered with tbe skin, which is damped and pinned in to follow every depres- 
sion and prominence; the study is then suffered to dry, and, models having been 
made, in the case of large animals, of the mucous membrane of the jaws, palate, 
Tongue, and lips, these are truthfully reproduced in plastic material. The ordinary 
glass eyes are discarded, and hollow globes, specially made, are hand-painted from 
nature, and are fixed in the head so as to convey the exact expression which the 
pose of the body demands. Birds, if of any size, can be modeled in like manner, 
and fishes are treated by a nearly identical process, being finally colored as in a '•still- 
life*' painting. 

To give a life-like appearance, attention is also paid to artistic "mounting.'' By 
this is meant the surrounding of specimens with appropriate accessories, and it is 
well exemplified by the new work shown in the natural history museum at South 
Kensington, where, for example, birds are arranged as in a state of nature, feeding, 
or flying to their young, sitting on their eggs, swimming in miniature pools, or 
preening their feathers whilst perched lovingly side by side, and surrounded by 
exquisitely modeled foliage and dowers. This, with correct modeling of the speci- 
mens, which, except in rare instances, is not quite so striking in the new groups, 
indicates the future of the art, the hope of which lies in the better educal ion of tax- 
idermists as designers, artists, and modelers. 

Not only should they be better instructed in designing, in art. and in 
modeling, but, what is quite as important, they should be trained espe- 



376 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

cially in the power of correct observation in animal morphology, and 
in other matters which will be enumerated farther along. 

Dr. Sharpe has given ns a very able article touching upon the ques- 
tion of artistic taxidermy.* He says: 

At Leyden, where a staff of trained taxidermists is kept in the museum, some 
attempt has been made to vary the usual mode of stuffing animals by representing 
them in varied and active positions, and thus the general effect is never monotonous. 
But this was never done in the British Museum, and the constrained attitudes of 
many of the specimens exhibited at Kensington form part of a legacy from the pa- 
rent institution, the bad influence of which it will take many years to efface. Thou- 
sands of specimens have been unmounted already or have been transferred to ih • 
duplicates and distributed to such provincial museums as prefer to tread in the old 
paths, and will accept specimens belonging to the bad old times. 

The credit of having broken away from time-honored tradition, in the mode of 
mounting animals in this country is certainly due to Mr. John Hancock, who taught 
how to combine scientific accuracy and artistic feeling. Mr. Hancock's name is at 
Password throughout England wherever taxidermy is mentioned, and in London 
his ablest representative has probably been Mr. A. D. Bartlett, the well-known 
superintendent of the zoological gardens, to whom we owe many of our most beauti- 
fully mounted specimens in the bird gallery. But the first to suggest this combina- 
tion of art and taxidermy for an entire museum, was undoubtedly Mr. E. T. Booth, of 
Brighton, whose collection of British birds in the Dyke Load Museum, still remains 
one of the sights of England, and is not surpassed in interest by any natural history 
exhibition in the whole world. Here may actually be seen our native birds in their 
haunts, every species being represented as in a wild state, with corresponding nat- 
ural accessories, reproducing as nearly as possible the surroundings as they were 
when the birds were alive, and representing the scenes sketched by the collector 
at the time of capture. Many years before we actually saw Mr. Booth's collection, 
its lame had reached our ears, and the idea seemed to us to indicate what the museum 
of I lie future, ought to be; thus we lost no opportunity of advocating this system of 
artistic taxidermy in all our public lectures. At Leicester the notion was well 
received, and some groups of British birds were mounted under the auspices of the 
natural history committee of the town museum, until by the appointment of Mr. 
Montague Brown, as the curator of the museum, Leicester obtained the services of a 
taxidermist as skilled as he is energetic, and the result has been that the system of 
natural mounting has been extended to the entire collection of birds, so that not 
only British, but foreign species are represented with their familiar surroundings in 
a state of nature. The Leicester Museum is the only one which has applied the 
principle in its entirety with the utmost success and public appreciation. 

And farther along in his article, and referring to the series of the 
groups of British small birds and their nests in the South Kensington 
Museum, Dr. Sharpe adds: 

In this corridor are placed most of the smaller perching birds, some of the artistic 
work being very satisfactory. The mounting of the specimens has been done by Mr. 
Pickhardt, who, when he exercises his full powers, is probably without a rival as a 
bird-stuffer, and the majority of the plants have been reproduced by Messrs. Min- 
torn, of Soho Square, but a great deal of the arrangement of the cases is done in the 
taxidermist's room of the museum by Mr. .James West, one of the staff. And here it 

'Sharpe, R. Bowdler: Ornithology at South Kensington. The English Illustrated 
Magazine, No. 51, December, 1887. London: Macmillan & Co., pp. l(>. r >— 17"*. Illus- 
trated. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. .'U7 

must he explained that the groups of British birds exhibited are absolutely true to 
nature, the birds being in every case the actual ones which built the nest in the 
identical situation reproduced iu the ease. 

So wonderfully interesting is Sharpe's article that the writer would 
fain republish here every word of it, but we must hastes on to the 
expression of opinions of others. 

When commenting upon the "Common Faults in the Mounting of 
Quadrupeds," our veteran taxidermist, Mr. William T. Hornaday, has 
said: 

The task of the taxidermist, if properly appreciated, is a grave and serious one. 
It is not to depict the mere outline of an animal on paper or canvas and represent 
its covering of hair, feathers, or scales; nor is it to build up a figure of yielding clay 
and cnst it in plaster. It is to impart to a shapeless skin the exact size, the form, 
the attitude, the look of life. It is to recreate the animal, or at least so much of it 
as appeals to the eye; to give it all that nature gave it except the vital spark. It 
should be an exact copy, as if it were a cast of the animal as fashioned by nature's 
cunning hand. It must stand the crucial test of being viewed from all points — from 
the side, the front, from behind, above, and below. 

.More than all this, the animal must be prepared to stand the test of time. It must 
not swerve from its poise; it must not shrink nor change its form: it must retain its 
smoothness and resist the ravages of destroying insects.* 

Mr. Hornaday, it will be remembered, was at one time in charge of 
the taxidermical department of the U. S. National Museum, and many 
of his most successful accomplishments, grand groups of our larger 
mammals, preserved in the most masterly style, are in the cases of that 
institution — silent attests to the durability and thoroughness of his 
work. A number of these will be noticed further on in the present 
paper. 

There was much in Mr. Hornaday's studio tit the National Museum 
that reminded me of the workshop of that giant among American 
taxidermists of his time, the late John G. Bell, of New York. There 
I met him over a quarter of a century ago. His place was some- 
where down upon Broadway, and his room upon the second or third 
story of the building. At the entrance door downstairs was a small 
case containing a mounted scarlet ibis and a tew other birds, to 
invite attention to those in search of his rooms above. At that time, 
about 1868, 1 Mas a student of one of Mr. Bell's best graduates, Mr. 
.lames YV. Jenkins, now of Madison, 111., and very well do I remember 
my hist introduction to that Broadway establishment. I had been 
engaged by Prof. Albert S. Bickmore to accompany, as naturalist, 
one of the Polar expeditions, then organizing, to make collections for 
the American Museum of Natural History, and had been sent with 
specimens of my bird-skins to Mr. Bell to have him pronounce upon 
them and my work generally, with the view of having his opinion 
on my fitness for the position. As I entered the room I observed 
an old red fox chained to a bolt in the wall, but lying down with 



Third Ann. Rep. of the Soc. Amer. Taxidermists, p. 67. l882-'83. 



378 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

bis head between bis forepaws and eyes upturned in my direction. 
On the floor in bis immediate neighborhood were a number of beauti- 
fully mounted birds on stands, and fearing lest the animal should 
suddenly arise if I came farther into the apartment, and do some dam- 
age, I started to pass round and give him as wide a berth as possible. 
The room was small, and Mr. Bell was engaged with a couple of stu- 
dents at a window opposite where I entered, but he turned in time to 
see my detour around the fox, and did not spare me in his merriment 
at my thinking the animal was alive. To some extent, however, he 
mitigated my chagrin by saying he had deceived over a hundred vis- 
itors with that fox during the rive years it had lain there. I could not 
help but admire his tall and well-knit frame, his piercing blue eyes, 
and general bearing. His specimens too, which I examined, were per- 
fect works of art, and, as all know who have ever had a similar oppor- 
tunity to study them, were tin' admiration and the envy of the taxi- 
dermists of those days, now long gone by. 

Of all the taxidermical institutions, however, that this country has 
developed none can in any way compare with the natural science estab- 
lishment of Prof. H. A. Ward, of Rochester, N. Y. Not only has Prof. 
Ward powerfully influenced for good the growth of the ait in America, 
or we may truthfully say throughout the civilized world, but he has by 
inspiring others with bis enthusiasm and energy built up a school of 
advanced taxidermists that are worthy emulators of his skill, and who 
have with marked ability passed the torch in many directions. There 
is not a museum in our land at all entitled to bear the name that is not 
in some way, whether directly or indirectly, indebted to him for im- 
provements of all kinds in its taxidermic methods, and the proper 
modes of exhibiting materials illustrative of the kindred arts ami 
sciences. 

Mr. F. A. Lucas, who has done so much to develop the exhibiting of 
osteological subjects, and models and specimens of both vertebrates 
ami invertebrates at the U. S. National Museum owes much of his suc- 
cess to his early training under Prof. Ward, and the art is not only 
under lasting obligations to him, but through his wise teaching it has 
been firmly and permanently placed in that quarter upon a safe and 
lasting basis. That Mr. Lucas appreciates "The scope and needs of 
taxidermy" in their truest sense no one can doubt who has ever read 
his article of that title in the Third Annual Report of the Society of 
American Taxidermists. 

Mr. Frederic S. Webster is another of whose writings and produc- 
tions the country has every reason to be proud, and the high standard 
of work so constantly put forth by that artist has always had a most 
beneficial effect upon the younger aspirants in the United States. 

Attention of American and European students has also been drawn 
from the old-time museum models in taxidermy and directed to a closer 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 379 

copying' of nature through the far-reaching works of Dr. Elliott Cones, 
who has said, in his Key to North American Birds: 

Faultless mounting [of birds] is an art really difficult, acquired by few; theaver- 
age work done in this line shows something of caricature, ludicrous or repulsive, as 
the ease maybe. To copy nature faithfully by taxidermy requires not only long 
and close study, but an artistic sense; and this last is a rare gift. Unless you have 
at least the germs of the faculty in your composition, your taxidermical success will 
be incommensurate with the time and trouble you bestow. My own taxidermical 
ait is of a low order, decidedly not above average. Although I have mounted a 
great many birds that would compare very favorably with ordinary museum work, 
few of them have entirely answered my ideas. A live bird is to me such a beautiful 
object that the slightest taxidermical tlaw in the effort to represent it is painfully 
offensive. Perhaps this makes me place the standard of excellence too high im- 
practical purposes (p. 40, 2d ed., 1884). 

Powerful impulses of the best kind have often been instilled into the 
art through the patronage and guidance of those who have at different 
times in their careers been either directors of, or curators in. our larger 
museums. I speak especially in this country of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution and the National Museum. 

Through the wise and ever-operative influence of our great Nestor of 
all the sciences zoological, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, he so directed the 
management of those institutions when under his administration that 
their workshops came to be the great drill ground for many of the most 
deserving who possessed the evidences of success in skillfully preserv- 
ing all manner of objects illustrative of the various classes of the animal 
kingdom. 

What has been the outcome of much of his wisdom we hope to por- 
tray, however faintly, in the following pages. Most ably has Prof. 
Baird's influence been fostered and furthered by the succeeding efforts 
along similar lines of those who are his successors in the administration 
of the Museum and who at the present time are doing so much to give 
actual shape and form to what before was simply in outline and crude 
beginnings. Where such influence tells the best is in th e directing of 
the skilled efforts of the taxidermic artist in those cases where the lat- 
ter, through lack of opportunity, fails to possess therequisite knowledge 
of the forms and habits of many of the world's rarer animals. Indeed, 
frequently some of the best group pieces of mounted mammals, birds, 
and others, have resulted from the combined knowledge and skill of the 
capable zoologist on the one hand and the trained taxidermist upon the 
other. Not a few of such groups are to be found in the collections of 
the Government museums. 

Very often it will be seen, then, in thefuture, I think, that hue, realistic 
groups of mounted animals will be produced that will be composites; 
in other words, will be the resultant of the combined labors of the 
biologist, the taxidermist, the modeler, and the designer and artist. 
Rarely will all these prerequisites be found in one man, though occasion- 
ally undoubtedly it will be so; then the museum which can claim his 
services will be very fortunate. 



380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Among - many others who have been more or less influential in insist- 
ing upon the highest standard for the art, in each and all of its 
branches, we must not forget the distinguished names of Joseph H. 
Batty, the author of a number of works upon practical taxidermy; 
0. J. Maynard, the well-known writer of the The Naturalist's Guide; 
Prof. J. AY. P. Jenks, who, through a long and honorable career, has 
never reused his efforts in not only doing much for taxidermy, but in 
the introduction of study series of animals in the public schools in 
New England and elsewhere; and a host of other worthy promoters. 

At the Nation a 1 Museum, at Washington, in recent times, in addition 
to the fine group pieces of Hornaday and of Lucas, there has been 
some masterly work done in the taxidermic art by Mr. Joseph Palmer, 
and his son, Mr. William Palmer; also by Mr. Nelson R. Wood and 
Mr. Henry Denslow, the nature of which I have already noticed in a 
popular article published in The Great Divide, of Denver, Colo., for 
December, 1892. and which will be referred to again in the present 
connection. 

From the opinions, then, of the European and American taxidermists 
as 1 have thus far quoted them, it is evident that the general develop- 
ment of the art sliows at this time very marked improvement, and the 
tendency among its votaries is to raise it to the highest possible stand- 
ard of excellence. With such a movement the writer is in the most 
hearty sympathy, and I am of the opinion that the day is not far dis- 
tant when taxidermy will rind its lawful place on the platform of the 
most highly cultivated of the arts. As a matter of fact it has every 
right in reason to stand side by side with painting and with sculpture, 
and its students need have no fears in claiming such a station for it. 

To be a scientific taxidermist requires, or should require, in the first 
instance, a very thorough education, quite equal to that given by our 
best colleges. He should have a complete training in biology, with 
especial emphasis having been placed upon his studies in comparative 
morphology, so as to be familiar, as far as possible, with the vertebrate 
skeleton and topographical anatomy, to include more particularly the 
study of the superficial muscles of vertebrates. He should have such 
a conception of physics as to be able to decide upon the possible and 
the impossible in animal postures. In a way, he should be a good ar- 
tist, be enabled to use the photographic camera, and make intelligent 
sketches of animals of all kinds and their natural haunts. He should 
be fully abreast ot the times in all taxidermic technique per se, and 
possess fine mechanical skill. 

As full a knowledge as can be attained of the habits of animals from 
personal observations should be added, as well as a constitutional de- 
sire to become familiar through current literature of all advances made 
from time to time in his art, and a healthy ambition to ever utilize them 
and improve upon the same. 

8o far as human ability is concerned, were I at this moment called 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 381 

upon to decide ;is to the relative merits of the talent required to paint 
a lite size elephant, to sculpture one in stone, or to properly preserve one 
in ;i natural position and color so it would safely resist the ravages of 
time and all else that might injure it. I should not hesitate a moment 
in rendering an opinion, for I should say it lay with the scientific tax- 
idermic artist. Mind you, when I do thus decide 1 have had in my lite- 
time, with specimens of smaller animals, experience with all. At t la- 
best, however, the difference is but of very small degree, and yet the 
taxidermist, in a way, should be master of both the art of the painter 
and the art of the sculptor, for frequently he has to use the brush with 
great fidelity to nature, and the time is fast coming on when he must 
be able to build up, in clay at least, the entire forms of the larger ani- 
mals which he aims to preserve. 

Next, it may be asked, Why a collegiate education ? Simply because 
I believe a man in any calling is a better man in every way for having 
received the four years' training which a university gives him. And 
surely neither the taxidermist, nor the artist, nor the sculptor offer any 
exception to the rule. Moreover, everything that the skilled taxider- 
mist would acquire in a college course would materially assist him in 
his profession in his subsequent career. Whatever may have been 
written, and whatever may have been said on the broad question of 
the college man versus the self-made man, it has been my experience 
that the kind of men that bring our country the most desirable recog- 
nition from other nations are those who have received a liberal educa- 
tion. A taxidermist should be a good ge leral biologist, and he should 
pay especial attention to the habits of all animals in nature; the geo- 
graphical ranges of fauna 1 ; breeding habits; the peculiar habits in- 
dulged in by various kinds of animals; their natural resorts during times 
of feeding, amusement, or conducting their young. Plants of all kinds 
should with scrupulous care be studied from the taxidermist's stand- 
point, as well as the localities where they grow, nature of surfaces of 
the ground, and all else presented on the part of held, ocean, stream, 
and forest. Nothing should escape his constant study of such matters, 
and, above all else, he should cultivate the faculty of patience. An 
impatient man, it may be safely said, can never attain to the highest 
position the art has in its power of giving him. 

In comparative morphology, as I have said, he should devote a great 
deal of time to the skeleton and to topographical anatomy. The study 
of the skeleton is of the very highest importance, as without a knowl- 
edge of it there is no hope at all of a man being a perfect taxidermist 
in all its varied departments. Normal movements of the articulations 
and the ligaments that control them should receive most careful consid 
eration, and no opportunity lost to study such matters scientifically 
upon all kinds of animal cadavers. Special drawings made by the 
taxidermist should record special points observed and worked out — the 
possibilities in normal movements and postures as exhibited by the 



382 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

osseous system. In its entirety, however, this can not be fully appre- 
ciated without a full knowledge of the muscular system, for there are 
possible movements that the skeleton, when cleaned and dried, is capa- 
ble of making, which, in life, become impossible from the operation of 
muscles and tendons. So myology must be systematically studied 
pari passu with the subject of skeletology, and with the aim constantly 
in view of acquiring a clear insight into the normal postures of animals. 

This leads to the consideration of the question of correct form, and 
to acquire that requires prolonged research and study upon the entire 
subject of topographical anatomy. Muscles extended; muscles con- 
tracted; muscles at rest; contours formed by the normal deposit of adi- 
pose tissue; contours formed by parts of the skeleton that are merely 
subcutaneous; contours formed by the presence of glands of all kinds, 
of scsamoidal bones, cartilages, and every other structure that may in 
any way affect the normal contour of an animal. To this must be added 
the careful study of all external characters proper, as the hair and 
analogous parts, throughout the animal kingdom — the eyes and their 
surroundings, the nasal structures, the mouth of all vertebrates and 
invertebrates. Indeed, there is not a point properly falling within the 
range of topographical anatomy in its very widest sense that should be 
beneath the special notice of the taxidermist. 

Colors of parts should also receive marked attention; and the taxi- 
dermist should keep a notebook devoted to that one branch alone. 
Never should an opportunity be lost to record by actual [tainted 
sketches the colors of every external anatomical character presented 
on the part of any animal whatsoever. Zoology itself would be far freer 
from gross errors of the color descriptions of animals were naturalists, 
as a rule, more careful in such matters. This is marked by the case in 
ichthyology and in the naked skin tracks of mammals and birds. We, 
then, are naturally led to the question of drawing and painting; and no 
one will doubt the necessity of a taxidermist being more or less pro- 
ficient in all these branches. But none of them will be of any service 
to him unless the power be supplemented by the more important fac- 
ulty of being a correct observer, and to be a correct observer is to see 
and appreciate things as they really exist. Taxidermists should have 
a knowledge of not only making correct sketches of all kinds of animals 
and their haunts and of plants and coloring them correctly, but they 
should be enabled to use such instruments as are demanded in making 
reduced drawings correctly from large subjects. Coloring in oil is also 
of great value in restoring the tints in some cases on the skins of pre- 
served animals, and the student in this art should constantly aim to 
cultivate his sense of color appreciation and of the matching of all the 
various shades. 

.More or less pertinent to this question, Capt, Thomas Brown has 
said: * 



Taxidermist's Manual, pp. 3, 4. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 383 

A knowledge of drawing and modeling are also indispensable; qualifications, to 
enable tbe stuffer to place bis subject in a position both natural and striking. It is 
the too-frequent practice for the stuffer to set about preserving the animal without 
having determined in what attitude he is to place it, so that it will appear to most 
advantage and be in character with the ordinary habits of the creature. This he leaves 
to the last efforts of finishing his work, and. consequently, its proportions and 
character are likely to be devoid of all appearance of animation. 

The first thing, therefore to be attended to in all great national natural history 
establishments is to choose young persons who are yet in their boyhood to be in- 
structed in this art most important to science. Their studies should be commenced 
by deep attention to drawing, modeling, anatomy, chemistry, while they at the 
same time proceed with the practical part of their art. Every opportunity of ex- 
amining the habits and actions of the living subject should be embraced and its atti- 
tudes and general aspect carefully noted. Without strict attention to these points, 
so manifestly obvious, the art of preserving animals never will attain that degree of 
perfection which its importance demands. On the other hand, if this art is pursued 
in the manner here recommended, artists may be produced who will fulfill the ob- 
jects of their profession with honor to themselves and advantage to their country. 
Would any person expect to arrive at eminence as a sculptor if he were unacquainted 
with the established preliminaries of his art, namely, drawing and anatomy? The 
thing is so self-evident, that I am only surprised it has not longagobeen acted upon. 
Upwards of twelve years have elapsed since I pointed out these facts to the profes- 
sor of natural history in the University of Edinburgh, but things continue as they 
were before that time. 

Since Capt. Brown wrote these words, and very true ones they are, 
another art and the accessories to it have enormously developed. I 
refer to the art of photography. Now, if there be one thing more use- 
ful to the scientific taxidermic artist than another it is a full practical 
knowledge of the use of the photographic camera and all that directly 
pertains thereto. Its application is most varied, and is greatly en- 
hanced by the use of the time and instantaneous shutters. By the use 
of the camera the taxidermist can secure subjects that the unaided eye 
and pencil can never give him, and these are all kinds of animals in rapid 
motion, and they may be obtained, after a due amount of practice, by 
the use of the photographic camera. One has but to study the superb 
series of photographs obtained through the indefatigable Eadwuard 
Muybridge to appreciate my meaning here. No taxidermist who has 
any regard for an attainment of excellence in his calling should neglect 
to make good photographs of all the living animals that he can, and that 
upon every possible opportunity. This should not be confined to wild 
animals alone, but to all the domestic ones in their most common atti- 
tudes. 

Horses, cows, dogs, cats, pigs, and till the barnyard fowls should by 
no means be beneath his notice. They should also be takenfrom many 
points of view," I might say from every possible point of view, and then 
be nearer what the taxidermist really needs in his work. He should 
carefully keep a series of large-sized and suitable scrapbooks wherein 
all his photographs should be carefully inserted, together with his 
sketches, and everything of the kind, with their full histories and notes, 



384 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

etc., recorded upon opposite pages. Photographs should be made also 
of plants of all kinds directly in the places where they occur in nature; 
also the resorts of animals of every description; birds' nests; and, in 
short, every possible natural subject and creature and locality that the 
taxidermist may be called upon to reproduce in his workshop. He 
should also make photographs of dissections, the skeletons of animals, 
models, and designs, and of dead animals. Ever should it be promi- 
nently before his mind that one of the greatest of all taxidermieal de- 
siderata is the obtaining of good models of all kinds and descriptions, 
and models true to nature in every sense of the word. Frequently 
artists who are correct observers and portrayers of animals make tine 
illustrations of them, either in the form of colored or uncolored prints, 
and these the taxidermist should secure for his "note book" when- 
ever he possibly can. 

On this point Mr. Staebner has very truly remarked:* 

It would seem almost superfluous to insist ou the value, nay the absolute neces- 
sity, of good illustrations as aids to the taxidermists, were it not that the impor- 
tance of the subject appears to be hardly yet fully appreciated by many of the very 
ones to be most benefited. 

There was a time, now happily past, as the work exhibited by this association 
abundantly proves, when individuals who mounted birds and animals (as their cards 
set forth) were content to ram a hide full ot packing material, sew it up, and call 
the effigy by ibis or that name, according as this or that animal was desired. The 
degree of monstrosity, if it may be so termed, thus produced, was in inverse ratio 
to the care of the workman for his art and his knowledge (often scant enough) of 
the external appearance of the animal he was attempting to reproduce. These mon- 
strosities of taxidermy are still to be seen in many of our public museums, where, let 
us hope, they at least serve the purpose of teaching the younger generation, how not 
to do it. 

As in all other departments of human activity, so in this is the skilled workman 
plainly superseding the unskilled, and the class of work thus becoming- more and 
more a source of pride and satisfaction. The man with a love for his art, necessa- 
rily something of a naturalist and witn a naturalist's care, anxious about the correct- 
ness of all the details of his work, must utilize all the aids at his command, and of 
these aids accurate drawings and paintings occupy the chief place. These are the 
taxidermist's works of reference to which he goes for information precisely as an- 
other goes to his encyclopedia, since the ability is given to no man to carry all the 
minute points of an animal's external appearance in his mind. That the representa- 
tions for this purpose should be what are strictly understood as works of art is obvi- 
ously unnecessary. 

The objects to be secured, however, and which they should possess to meet the 
requirements of the case are: (1) accuracy of outline; (2) truthfulness of attitude, 
and (3) in order offlmportance, correctness of coloring, and in so far as they conform 
to these things are they already, by just so much, works of art. What is technically 
known as artistic effect should here be a secondary consideration. Having secured 
the first three essential points, attention may be given to the last. 

In the case of rare animals such representations as is well known are the sole reli- 
ance of the taxidermist. That they have a value even in the case of more familiar 
animals may be instanced by the case of the walrus. The pictures of this mammal 

* Staehner, F. W. : Note on the value of animal illustrations to taxidermists. Third 
Auu. Rep. .Society of American Taxidermists, 1882-'83, pp. 72-71. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 385 

in all the professed works on zoology and natural history, even in so good and gen- 
erally correct a work as Brebm, are glaringly false, and it is only within the last 
few years that anything approaching truthful representations — figures drawn from 
observation instead of copies of previous drawings originally evolved from the artisl s 
" inner consciousness" — have been given us, and so it happens that of mounted speci- 
mens of the walrus showing the, true appearance of the animal almost the only ones 
at the present time are the one at Cambridge, and that other at the United States 
National Museum mounted by Mr. Hornaday.* 

How often has a painstaking taxidermist wished for a means of refreshing his rec- 
ollection on some little matter of detail concerning a creature's anatomy, and been 
obliged to finally guess at it because of the lack of adequate illustrations. Let me 
not be understood as descrying the assistance afforded by zoological gardens. It is 
just here that they come into play, and as it is better for the taxidermist to observe 
at first hand, so these are even better than drawings for reference; but the. fact is 
they are far from being readily accessible at best in this country, and in the few 
instances in which this objection does not apply the variety of specimens which 
they contain is too limited, so that we are still compelled to supplement them by a 
more ready source of information, and thus we fall back upon pictorial representa- 
tions as on the whole most convenient. As above implied, however, these represen- 
tations must be taken from life by skillful hands, and must give us the animals as 
they look, and not as the artist thinks they ought to look. 

But in order that we may have such we must encourage those who work in this 
line — the Landseers, the Baryes, the Wolfs, the Spechts, etc., whom, under a change 
of name, we have in this country in the Beards, the Kenieyses, etc. We must make 
it profitable for them to undertake the work we so much need, and if we have the 
good of taxidermy at heart, if we have faith in its capabilities as an art we will do 
this, for in so doing we are helping it and ourselves as well as them. 

Iii The Auk for April, 1891, the present writer published a letter en- 
titled " Camera notes for ornithologists," which, not being of very- 
great length and quite in line with the views just quoted above, will, 
I think, bear repeating here, and enlarging upon a little further along. 
I said: 

At the last congress of the American Ornithologists' Union there were exhibited 
many photographs of all sorts of ornithological subjects, and the majority of them 
were examined by the. writer with great care. 

For one, I was disappointed in the results arrived at by the authors of the most 
of them, as there appeared to be such a total absence of any practical result attained. 
Among the best that I saw Avere some taken by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns, but even those, 
the work of a most painstaking naturalist, did not come up to what the camera is 
capable of performing for practical ornithology. Little or nothing is to be gained 
in this latter direction by photographing bunches of game or badly mounted speci- 
mens and similar subjects. Any tyro can accomplish as much as that, and orni- 
thology not be called upon to thank him for it. 

In the present communication it is the writer's object to relate some personal 
experiences which may be of assistance to those interested in this line of work. 

Now, in the first place, as to some of the objects to be attained: There are a num- 
ber of these. We may desire, for example, a sharp, clear photograph, which either 
may be natural size or may present the subject reduced, for the use of the lithog- 
rapher, in order to place in the latter's hands an accurate figure to be copied ou to 
stone, and the plates printed therefrom to be used for illustrative purposes. The 



* In this connection see the various figures of the walrus illustrating the present 
report, Plates i.xxxv, i.xxxvi. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. L> 25 



;186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

subject may be a bird, its young, or its nest, <>r a dissection of a bird, or its skele- 
ton, or its eggs, aud so on indefinitely. Owls present to many artists difficult sub- 
jects to draw satisfactorily, but there is no reason why we should not, by the aid of 
the camera and a 5-by-8 plate, for a small sum, and in very short older, have ready 
for the lithographer a life-size figure, aud a perfectly accurate one, of such a species 
as Nyctala acadica, or upon a similar plate a handsomely reduced figure of Bubo vir- 
ginianus. Again, by varying our material, colored figures are easily obtained for 
like purposes. Photographs of this character may also be used to make wood cuts 
from, or they may be reproduced by some of the various styles of "process work." 
Yet another object: We may desire to produce by the aid of a camera an accurate 
figure of any of the above-mentioned subjects from which an electrotype can be 
directly made. This also is now easy of accomplishment, and such illustrations 
meet avast variety of needs in descriptive ornithology. These, then, are some of 
the principal objects to be attained, viz, clear, accurate figures, either life size or 
reduced to any desired size, and either plain or colored, which (by the use of differ- 
ent materials) can be used at once by either the lithographer, the wood engraver, 
the "process worker," or the electrotyper. 

Your material must be the best in all particulars. I use a large, first-class, quick- 
working lens; a Blair's camera for the 5 by S plate; the iron and oxalate, developer, 
using the chemically pure material (filtered); bichloride of mercury and ammonia 
for intensifying, etc. 

Our method of procedure can best be illustrated by a few examples. Say we wish 
to reproduce, life size, a hawk's egg. Suspend on the wall opposite and under the 
strong sunlight, a smooth, half-inch pine board; cover this with white blotting 
paper, held on with some half dozen artists' thumb tacks. Of course your egg is to 
be blown and not show the opening. Next you decide whether or no you desire it 
to throw a shadow; if you do, you simply fasten it to the blotting paper with a 
small piece of soft wax, exposing to the camera the side you wish represented ; if you 
do not, you insert a piece of wire a few inches long into the board and perpendicular 
to it, and fasten the egg to the end of it with a soft piece of wax. Place a bucket 
of water on the floor under the egg, in case the specimen should accidentally drop 
off. Focus the egg natural size and sharp on the ground glass of your camera; this 
maybe ascertained by a pair of calipers, comparing the actual length of the egg 
with its image upon the ground glass. Insert your smallest diaphragm and expose, 
the time of exposure being governed by your former experiences. I prefer Seed's 
dry plates. They give excellent results. After developing, unless you get a very 
strong negative it is always best to intensity your plate, and this is done by the 
usual mercury and ammonia process. Now, if you wish an un colored figure to be 
lithographed, or woodcut, or for some of the special processes, you must print on the 
best ready sensitized albumen paper, toning the print handsomely afterwards. On 
the other hand, if you desire a colored figure, you must print on plain, i. e., non- 
albumenized, sensitized paper, and afterwards color the print by hand with New- 
ton's water-colors from the specimen. Pure white eggs stand out well when pho- 
tographed against black velvet or crape; this also applies to some skulls and other 
osteological specimens, when they are cleaned to a state of glistening whiteness. 
Such a procedure defines the outlines well for the engraver. 

When we conic to the photographing of birds, living birds, for the purpose of 
obtaining the proper kind of figures that can be used for the various methods of 
reproduction now in vogue, we enter upon a field where one ran display no end of 
patience, tact, and ingenuity. It will be a long day before the writer will forget 
his experience in obtaining a photograph of a live screech owl. Three times I 
walked half a mile from the house where 1 could get a sky background tor him on 
the summit of a hill, where an old natural stump was also to be found to serve as a 
perch for him. Just as good a result can be obtained by photographing your bird" 
in your studio with a sheet for a background, and then you may choose any kind of 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 387 

perch you desire, from a museum T to the limb of a ni^'i'd old pine with the coues 
and spmes on. 

Right here, however. I desire to mention a process, no doubt already known to 
many, for which there is no end of use. Saj you have obtained a fine, intensified 
negative, the subject being a bird caught in the act of some habit peculiar to it. You 
wish to- obtain a good, strong, accurate outline figure of it, from which an electro- 
t ype can at once be made, to serve as an illustration for some article upon which you 
may be engaged. Make a print from the plate upon plain, uonalbuminized, sensi- 
tized paper. Remove the print to the dark-room and wash out the silver from it 
thoroughly. You may tone, but it is not absolutely necessary unless there is very 
considerable detail in your figure. Dry the print in the dark, and keep in a 
perfectly dark place until evening. When evening comes complete your work 
under a good lamp where the direct rays do not fall upon your print. Pin this lat- 
ter out on a small drawing-board with artists' thumb tacks, and then with a map- 
ping-pen (No. 291, (iillott's) and Higgins' American drawing ink carefully ink over 
by lines and otherwise the outlines of your figure. In doing this you will have the 
opportunity of making it appear just as you desire your outline ink sketch to appear 
when it comes to be finally printed from the electrotype. Having carefully com- 
pleted your work, immerse the print flat in a tray containing a saturated solution of 
bichloride of mercury. This in a moment takes out all of the print except the ink 
outline you have traced, and this latter it leaves upon a pure white sheet of paper. 
Next dry the print thoroughly and mount upon a suitable card. At a small cost, a 
good electrotype can be made from this figure. Photographing against a sheet, of 
course, takes out a great deal that you do not want in your reproduced figure, but 
by the process just described you need not have a single point or line more than you 
want. It works admirably where we wish to reduce the subject to any required 
size; in osteological subjects and in dissections; in deformities of birds; and indeed 
in dozens of other cases. To naturalists in general I would say that the process just 
described is absolutely invaluable ; by its means ready and accurate sketches are 
made of characters of country; of all sorts of ethnological subjects, as pottery and 
native arts, sometimes so difficult to draw; of complicated skeletons; of living ani- 
mals of all kinds, and thousands of other subjects too numerous for enumeration. 

With some live birds the following plan will be found to work well: Suspend a 
shelf, at the proper height, from the wall of your studio and in the proper light. 
This shelf, as usual, is to be entirely covered with white blotting paper, and upon 
its horizontal part is to be firmly fixed the limb, trunk, or rock, or turf upon which 
you desire your specimen to appear. Set up your camera and focus this perch 
sharply on your ground-glass; next put in your smallest diaphragm and attach your 
•' pneumatic shutter" ready for instant use. Gently take your living bird in your 
hand, smooth its feathers, caress it for a moment or two, then quietly place its head 
under its wing, and by beginning slowly soon rapidly whirl your specimen in a cir- 
cle. This, as it were, "put it asleep," but it will seize the perch with its feet, or rest 
quietly on rock or turf. Place it as near as possible in the position you desire, and 
stand ready for a semi-instantaneous picture. Be perfectly quiet. In a few moments 
your bird gradually comes to, rights himself, preens up a little, looks around, steadies 
himself udo a natural attitude, finally looks himself, and then more or less animated, 
fins is your chance, puff the snap on him ! 

Upon reading this over I find few, if any, alterations to make, and 
since it was written I have succeeded in obtaining- not a few good fig- 
ures according to its directions, some of which are republished as illus- 
trations in the present paper and will be described a little later. 
There is one thing, however, that needs notice, and in order to get a 
good electrotype or stereotype, it is not necessary to proceed ;is above 



388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

given, for we can simply make a blueprint; that, as we know, can be 
done in a few moments, and is a finished picture, i. c, does not require 
toning and fixing. Then trace what you desire to appear on your blue 
print as directed, and bleach out with a saturated solution of bicarbo 
nate of potash. This gives you a black and white drawing of any finish, 
aceording to the labor you may desire to put upon it, and is the working- 
drawing now so commonly used for newspaper cuts; but when printed 
upon the best paper, for the resulting electrotype or stereotype fur 
nishes an excellent drawing for a variety of purposes, and a very useful 
one for the working naturalist and practical taxidermist. 

Blotting paper in large sheets makes a far better background than 
a sheet, and you may use it pure white, or blue, or gray, according to 
the effect you desire to produce. Your subject should be well in front 
of the background, and, if possible, so far in front as to avoid a shadow 
being thrown upon it. Pictures thus taken out of doors, on clear, bright 
days, are generally excellent. 

Returning now to the requirements of the skilled taxidermist, 1 have 
said, and Capt. Brown supports me in it, he should have such a knowl 
edge of physics and chemistry as will assist him in the case of the first 
in deciding upon the possible and impossible in the matter of the atti- 
tudes of animals, and to some extent in the surroundings, as m the 
rock work, etc., now extensively used in reproducing large groups. 
With respect to chemistry he should be so much master of its general 
principles as to be enabled to practically apply it to the action ana 
composition of preservatives lor the preservation of every description 
of animal tissue. Not only that, but such a knowledge will be useful 
to him in experimenting with the preservation of many kinds of plant 
growths and kindred structures. For instance, I have recently been 
shown specimens of the leaves of some varieties of trees that had been 
gathered in nature and so perfectly restored that there was no very 
great depreciation in them, either of form or color, and the effect when 
properly done is most excellent. 

Fruits are now frequently reproduced by the methods of the plastic 
cast, and are so perfect as to absolutely deceive the most critical of 
observers. The persimmons in the Raccoon Group in the National 
Museum were manufactured in that way, and it is by no means an easy 
task, aided by the eye alone, to distinguish them from the originals. 

This brings us to the question of the various modes of modeling, and 
here is one of the branches of the taxidermic art, upon which too great 
an amount of skill and ingenuity can not well be expended. Here all 
the acquirements of the art student in taxidermy can be applied and 
nothing lost by the labor, it involves the application of all his knowl- 
edge of anatomy, his technique, his taste, and indeed, nearly everything 
which it has been recommended above for him to prepare himself m. 
He should be able to make casts of both vertebrates and invertebrates 
in plaster of Paris; he should be familiar with the various methods now 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XV. 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XVI. 




Common Squid (Sepia officinalis, <S ). 
From a gelatine cast; reduced. 



Report of National Museum, 1832,-Shufe 



Plate XVII. 




HlSTIOTEUTHIS BONELLIANA. 

From a gelatine cast; reduced. 



■Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XVIII. 




Fig. l. Polynoe leucohyba. 




Annelids. 



Fig 2. Gastrolepidia clavigera, 



From gelatine casts; somewhat enlarged. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XIX. 




A Marine Worm (BoneU/a viridis). 
From a gelatine east; greatly enlarged 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 389 

so generally in use, of the reproduction of many of the smaller animals 
in the different. kinds of plastic material; he should be an adept in the 
use of clays, was, wood, and other materials for the restoration of 
parts. In short, now that taxidermy is a rapidly progressing art, the 
advanced students and representatives of it, require, I think, no word 
from me here to stimulate them to keep abreast of the many improve- 
ments taking place in it. Among other things it should be the aim of 
taxidermists to establish in this country at least several good soci- 
eties, where from time to time they could meet and exhibit the most 
recent successes in their art. Where papers could be read, and the 
work of individuals generally compared. Organization, in other words, 
I must believe, would at the present stage of the art's development, be 
a benefit. 

The writer of this paper has ever been a strong advocate of the 
establishment of large, thoroughly equipped Government institutions 
of learning or universities, and of the nation's duty to educate in the 
best possible manner her aspirants in the dirierent departments of 
science and art. What a national safeguard it would be in such a 
profession, for example, as medicine; what a source of stimulation to 
such an art as taxidermy ? I weigh my words well, when I say that if 
such an institution could annually graduate in this country 50 thor- 
oughly educated and skilled taxidermists, it would in time, far more 
heavily redound to our national credit than much else I could name 
which our Government indulges in. Apply it to all the arts and 
sciences, and we would command the respect of every nation of the 
globe, and, better than this, it would be that kind of respect which 
skill, knowledge, and culture always brings, and which brilliant dis- 
play of warships, guns and warism can never inspire. 

Let us pass next to the consideration of the question of some of the 
results now attained to by modern taxidermists in the preserving of 
animals for museum exhibition. Here we meet with at the very out- 
start, a phase of the art in which the workers at the IT. S. National 
Museum have kept themselves tally abreast with the advances made 
m it. llecently some beautiful work has been turned out here, espe- 
cially in the line of single specimens, as well as groups, of marine in- 
vertebrates for the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago. 

Take, for example, such an elegant reproduction of an Octopus as is 
shown in Plate xv ( 0. vulgaris). This triumph in the matter of an exact 
model, perfectly preserved, of a large soft invertebrate animal is ac- 
complished through the use of the plaster mold, and gelatine cast, 
now so successfully brought to such perfection. Under the careful 
supervision of Mr. F. A. Lucas, whom I must thank here for the selec- 
tion of the six specimens illustrating this department, the proper speci- 
mens are first picked out from the collection or are chosen from plates, 
and pass next in order to the most skilled modellers, casters, and color- 
ers. Of the series 1 here present, Mr. A. H. Baldwin has made the 



390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

models after the drawings of various artists which will be hereinafter 
mentioned. After a model has been made, a mold is next taken, and 
from it a gelatine east is seemed which later is finally trimmed to life, 
and faithfully colored to nature. Mr. .1. W. Scollick is responsible for 
the delicate manipulation required in securing accurate molds and 
castings from the models, and then they once more pass to. Mr. Bald- 
win's hands to be colored. After this operation and when perfectly dry, 
they may either be tastefully mounted upon properly tinted pieces of 
small boards of a suitable kind of wood, dressed down to a right thick- 
ness, or they may play their part in a group, wherein all the natural 
surroundings of such creatures are reproduced, save the element in 
which they exist. This specimen of Octopus vulgaris was based on the 
figure given by Yerany, as was also the models of. Sepia officinalis, 
shown in Plate xvr and in one of Histioteuthis bonelliana, shown in 
Plate xvii, and so may be relied upon as being more or less true to 
nature. 

Uidess one has seen one of these finished gelatine casts of such an 
animal as an Octopus, it is hard to realize what a perfect represen- 
tation it gives us of the living animal; and, the cast being perfectly 
pliable, much as is the best of good rubber, it still further enhances 
the resemblance to the original. But to produce this, requires skill 
and art of a very high order at nearly every step of the process. In 
the first place, if we are to model from a drawing, that drawing must 
be known to be accurate; if we model from a specimen, we must be 
sure about placing it in a posture that the animal is known to habitu- 
ally assume. Great skill is next required in making a perfect model 
or copy of the design or specimen, and then it goes without saying 
that it is only through long experience and care thatthe necessary molds 
and casts are obtained. Much depends at last upon the ability of the 
artist to faithfully color the result of all the previous efforts; that is, 
the trimmed east, lioruaday has said in his work on Taxidermy: 

For irregular objects, the working of a gelatine mold is perfection itself. It 
yields gracefully in coming out of the undercuts and around corners, takes every 
detail perfectly, and in the jacket its shape is always the same. A careful operator 
can make from twenty to fifty copies of a east in a single mold before its loss of 
sharpness necessitates its abandonment (p. 267). 

Hornaday's brief chapter on the making of molds and casts in the 
volume just quoted is one of the most useful and valuable in the book. 

In passing, I am tempted to say here that the Cuttlefishes to which 
this Octopus belongs are the most highly organized members of the class 
of animals constituting the Cephalopoda. As the MalaMa, they were 
fully recognized by Aristotle over three hundred years before Christ. Of 
their distribution, Nicholson has said that — 

They are all marine, active, rapacious, and carnivorous in their habits, swimming 
vigorously by means of the jets of water emitted from thefuunel, or in an opposite di- 
rection by means of tins, and creeping about the sea bottom by means of the prehensile 
arms. Some forms (such as the Octopodidce and Sepia) are essentially littoral animals. 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 391 

frequenting shallow seas, living in the vicinity of the land, and specially affecting 
rocky bottoms, others (such as Tremoctopus, Sepiola, Argonauta, Spirula, Architeu- 
this, Onychoteuthis, etc.) arc pelagic animals, living in the open ocean, often far 
from land, and swimming at or near the surface. Though more varied as regards 
their specific and generic types in the warmer seas of the globe, cuttlefishes are 
found in almost all seas, and are sometimes extremely numerous individually even 
in the colder oceans. It seems also certain that our present knowledge as to the 
pelagic forms is only very imperfect. As to their dimensions, none are extremely 
minute, and some attain truly gigantic dimensions. Not to speak of the fabulous 
accounts of colossal cuttlefishes given by many of the older writers, such as Pon- 
toppidan and Olaus Magnus, Ave arc now acquainted through the observations and 
descriptions of scientific witnesses, such as Banks and Solander, Quoy, and Gaim- 
ard, Steenstrup, Yerrill, etc., with various huge cuttlefishes, inhabiting both the 
Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Some of these, though only known by imperfect spec- 
imens, certainly attain a length of 15 feet or upwards to the body and head, and 
from 30 to 40 feet or upwards in the long tentacles. All these giant cuttlefishes 
appear to belong to the suborder of the Decapoda.* 

These gelatine easts are not only accurate and beautiful objects to 
be placed in the cases of any museum, but they, by being kept under 
the protection of glass doors, will last for almost an indefinite length 
of time, unaltered in color or form. The range of the applicability of 
the gelatine cast is well-nigh infinite. I have seen tish, frogs, ser- 
pents, lizards, and similar animals tints reproduced, and so perfectly 
that their faithful portrayal of the original subjects was truly marvelous. 
As to fruit of all kinds, it can be imitated so closely that sometimes, 
by the aid of the eye alone, one can not correctly decide between the 
original and the copy thus made. 

For the presentation of form, color, and general character, such 
reproductions of animals as the common Squid, shown in Plate XVI, and 
the Histioteuthis, shown in Fig. 4, leaves but little to be desired along 
such lines. No oue can for a moment doubt but what a great deal is to 
be hoped for from this department of animal preservation, and the en- 
couragement of it is to be most highly recommended. 

Other line successes in this direction are shown in Plate xvni, Fig. 1, 
Plate xvni, Fig. 2, and Plate xix. Plate xvni, Fig. 1, of a specimen of 
Polynoe leucohyba (somewhat enlarged), and likewise the Gastrolepidia 
clavigera, shown in Plate xvni, Fig. 2 (somewhat enlarged), are from 
Schmarda, both being very instructive representations of the originals. 
As is known, these low forms belong to the Annelida, each being genera 
in the order Potychceta of that group. 

Another beautiful reproduction of an interesting annelid is shown in 
Plate xix. This is also from a photograph of the gelatine cast in the 
collections of the IT. S. National Museum and represents a specimen of 
Bonellia viridis of the Mediterranean Sea. It is greatly enlarged, and 
the model based upon the drawing given us of this form by Lacaze- 
Duthiers, who has rendered an account of this marine worm in a paper 



Nicholson, H. A. Art. "Cuttlefish." Encyl. Brit. 9th ed. vol. vi., pp.739, 740. 



392 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

entitled "Reeherches sur La Bonella (Bonellia viridis)." (Aim. Scien. 
Nat., torn, x, Paris, 1858, pp. 49-110, Pis. 1-4.) 

Such annelida as Bonellia represents belong to the order Gephyrea, 
and, according to W. C. Mcintosh, "seem to approach the Echino- 
derms through the Holothuroidea." They are all marine types, being 
very widely distributed throughout nature, specially in muddy regions, 
some being frequently found in univalve shells. 

By such representations as these, and by the judicious use of ex- 
planatory tables, surely he museum of the future has a fine field to 
look forward to, for such an art as this is capable of classifying in cases, 
according to natural taxonomical schemes, whole groups of animals, 
that heretofore have been studies only from the specimens and from 
plates and drawings. It also admits of similar casts, duly colored, of 
the anatomical structure of these little popularly known types, and, as 
I have already said above, of placing many of them in their cases sur- 
rounded by reproductions of the objects of their several environments 
in nature. 

Passing next to the art of taxidermy as applied to crustaceans we 
are confronted with an entirely different problem than the one of which 
we have just been speaking. And, as the writer has had no personal 
experience of the kind, it is with no little pleasure that I find a brief 
but able article on this subject by my friend Mr. F. A. Lucas, and from 
it 1 here quote such parts as are in keeping with the present paper, by 
which I mean that the outstanding difficulties will be indicated while 
the technique of the art will be omitted. 

Lucas has said: 

Mounting of crabs, lobsters, and other crustaceans is somewhat of a thankless task, 
requiring an outlay of considerable time and trouble to arrive at results at all satis- 
factory. At first sight it would seem an easy matter to mount an animal whose form 
is determined beforehand, but a little trial develops the fact that, like bringing up 
children, it is much easier in theory than in practice. As crustaceans dry they be- 
come very brittle, and the small legs and delicate feelers break only too readily. 
Worse than all, the beautiful colors with which these creatures are adorned while 
living fade rapidly, and the only way in which they can be renewed is by a dex- 
trous use of paint. Therefore the great requisites for mounting crustaceans are a 
careful touch, a good eye for colors, and some knowledge of the proper methods of 
applying them. The preparation of crustaceans is a little peculiar, inasmuch as, in- 
stead of the skin being removed from the body, the body is removed piecemeal from 
the skin. * * * 

Crustaceans maybe mounted either on plain pedestals or on artificial 
rock work, according to the purpose they are to serve, and in any case they should be 
kept out of the dust as far as possible, since, owinj; to their fragile nature, they are 
very difficult to clean.* 

*On the Mounting of Crustaceans. Third Annual Report of the Society of Ameri- 
can Taxidermists, pp. 74-77, 1882-'83. As it is a fact quite as well known to every 
one interested in the matter as it is unfortunate, that The Society of American Taxi- 
dermists no longer has any existence, I will here make a bibliographical note of 
the two former reports of that society tor the benefit of those who may desire tocon- 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 3t>3 

In time we must believe that the plastic method as described above for 
invertebrates will come to be generally used for crustaceans as well. 
There is no reason that I can at present see that it should not, and every 
reason that it should. Xo specimens of the group preserved in that 
way have come to my attention in the collections of the National 
Museum or elsewhere, and so 1 have no plates of the same to offer here. 
Those prepared by the methods recommended by Mr. Lucas are so well 
done, and differ so little or not at all from those animals as they are 
recognized by us in nature, that nothing would be gained by reproduc- 
ing photographs of them as illustrations to the present report; there- 
fore the idea was not entertained. 

This fact has also influenced in regard to insects; moreover, in the 
case with that group our Government has already published very full 
instructions upon their mounting and preservation for museum pur- 
poses, and that taxidermist who aspires to be a master of every depart- 
ment of his art can do no better than consult the admirable treatist s of 
Prof. C. V. Riley, and of Prof. A. S. Packard, and others in the same 
field. 

When we come to fishes, however, we at once enter upon the bor- 
derland of the taxidermy of the great realm of the vertebrata, and for 
it there exists a not inextensive literature, and methods and instruc- 
tions are found almost without end. 

Fishes seem to have constituted the bete noir of the museum collec- 
tor and the taxidermist for ages past, and until the use of the gelatine 
cast came into vogue their natural preservation seemed almost hopeless. 
In alcohol many of them become shrunken, and a large percentage part 
with their natural colors entirely. Moreover, the usual cylindrical jars 
used to exhibit them in, on the museum shelves, so distort their forms 
to the eye of the casual observer who thus views them through the 
glass, that another serious disadvantage is added. To a large extent, 
this has recently been overcome by Mr. J. E. Benedict, of the National 
Museum, who, by indefatigable patience and thought, has devised very 
neat appearing glass receptacles, with plane surface sides, and a few 
ingenious devices for sustaining the contained specimens in morenatu 
ral positions, thus largely doing away with the aforesaid disadvantage. 



suit them in the future. I am indebted to Mr. Lucas for the loan of them, and they 
are works of no little interest. They are as follows: 

First Annual Report | of the | Society | of | American Taxidermists. | — | March 
24th, 1880, to March 25th. 1881. | — | Rochester, N. Y. | Daily Democrat and Chronicle 
Book and Job Print, 3 West Main st. | 1881. 8vo., pp. 3t>. 3 process plates. 

Second Annual Report | of the | Society | of | American Taxidermists. | — | March 
25th, 1881, to March 24th, 1882. | — | Compiled by the secretary. | — | Rochester, N. 
Y. | Judson J. Withall, Book and Job Printer, 39 N. Union street, | 1882. Svo.. pp. 
56, with an announcement and index. 2 plates. 

It is very much to be desired that this society should be reorganized, and that 
upon a basis of organization of some one of our best societies in the arts or sciences. 
The need for such a society is great. 



394 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Still, where alcohol is the preservative used, there yet remain the loss 
of color and the distortion due to shrinkage. Many authors in the art 
of taxidermy have suggested in their works from time to time various 
plans for the skinning of fishes, and " stuffing" them much in the same 
way that birds and mammals are done. But as a rule, failure of greater 
or less degree is generally the outcome of all such attempts. I have 
studied collections of stuffed fishes in many parts of this country and 
elsewhere, and I yet have to meet with one in any museum or private 
collection, that comes up to what it ought to be. We turn from the 
cases of such objects with feelings of anything but a pleasurable nature. 
We hear a great deal said about the beauty of birds, and they are beau- 
tiful, but I, for one, see a beauty that is quite equal to it in the vast 
majority of fishes. Where has nature a lovelier object to offer for our 
admiration than a finely marked adult speckled trout just as the fellow 
is pulled out of his natural element and lies in the bright rays of the 
sun, panting upon a grassy bank ? And, do we ever see anything that 
very much resembles his incomparable charms in our miserable dried-up 
collections of" stuffed" fishes'? Hornaday has said: 

Certain it is that in nearly every large zoological museum the stuffed fishes are 
the least attractive, and the least lifelike of all the vertebrates, In many instances 
the reptiles are not far behind in unsightliness, although, as a rule, they are a little 
more lifelike than the fishes. In only one natural history museum cut of tweuty- 
seven have I found a collection of stuffed fishes which surpassed in number and 
quality of specimens the collection of birds and mammals, and formed the most 
attractive feature of the entire museum. That fish collection is to be seen in the 
Government museum at Madras, India, and I have reason to believe it is at present 
the finest of its kind in existence. The collection consists of a very general assort- 
ment of specimens from the Indian Ocean, and particularly from the Coromandel 
coast, and besides a large number of small specimens it also contains as many large 
sharks, Rhinobatidce, and rays as the authorities have been aide to obtain without 
duplicating the species. 

The specimens were all mounted while fresh from the ocean, which, of course, has 
been a great advantage to the taxidermist. I was somewhat surprised to learn that 
the taxidermist in question was an Indian native named 1'. Anthony Pillay, because 
East Indian natives of all classes are almost without exception very bad taxider- 
mists. Upon being introduced to Mr. Pillay, an old Mohammedan gentleman with a 
long white beard, dressed in the style of his class, he very obligingly explained to 
me his method of mounting fish of all kinds.* 

Personally, I have but liftle or no confidence in cultivating the art 
along on these lines, notwithstanding the measure of success attained 
to by the Indian taxidermist just mentioned. For all large zoological 
museums I believe that experimentation should proceed in the direc- 
tion of discovering, if possible, some clear, transparent, preservative 
fluid that will not change the form or color of the specimens, and then 
exhibiting them in such positions as we would see them in aquaria 
and such tanks containing living fishes as are to be seen at the exkibi- 



* Hornaday, W. T. : A New and Easy Method of Mounting Eish Medallions. Sec- 
ond Ann. Rept. Anier. Taxidermist, 1881-'82, p. 38. 



■Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XX. 







SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 395 

tion room, the grottos, of the 0". S. Fish Commission at Washington, 
D. 0. Mr. Benedict, no doubt, has the correct idea in regard to the 
form of the receptacles that should contain them, and that is a very 
important step in advance. Added to this, the taxidermic artist has 
a beautiful tield open to him in his method of making plaster casts and 
casts of gelatine, upon both of which he may exert his utmost powers 
and ability to color so as to have them resemble the natural fish as 
closely as possible, and I mean the natural fish immediately after he 
has been removed from the water and wiped dry. The study of the 
proper colors alone is in itself a vast subject, for they must not only 
counterpart the natural shades of the specimens, but they must be 
selected with the view to their permanency and general effect. Vari- 
ous methods of gilding and silvering upon plaster-of- Paris, gelatine 
casts, and papier-mache ones require careful research and considera- 
tion, as by their use many admirable results are to be obtained. 

As to the large cartilaginous fishes, as the rays, sharks, and their 
kin, Ave must believe that the processes just referred to are at present the 
only ones known to us by which the living specimens can be reproduced 
with any marked fidelity to nature and fit for a first class museum. 

By the old fashion "stuffing" method, it seems quite out of the ques- 
tion, even for the most skilled taxidermists among us, to succeed in 
thus preserving a shark's skin, or that tissue in the troublesome ray. 
They will not resist the effects of time. They shrink, become distorted, 
and finally burst, and bring only failure and disrepute upon the art. 
One may as well try and stuff a soap bubble, and fortunately there is 
no necessity for either experiment. 

In his usual vigorous style, the artist I have last quoted, remarks: 

Rays are the meanest of all subjects that vex the soul of the taxidermist. Shun 
them as you would the smallpox or the devil. Such abomiuable animated pancakes, 
with razor edges that taper out to infinite nothingness, were never made to be 
mounted by any process known to mortal man. To mount the skin of a vile ray, 
and make it really perfect and lifelike, is to invite infinite shrinkage, rips, tears, 
warps, defeat, and humiliation at the hands of your envious rivals. If you must 
mount a ray, by all means get square with it at the start. Stuff his miserable old 
skin with tow or straw, the more the better. Ram him, cram him, " full to the very 
jaws," like the famous rattlesnake skin that taxidermist Miles Standish stuffed 
"with powder and bullets." If you can burst him wide open from head to tail, by 
all means do so, and you may call me your slave for the rest of my life. Make him 
nice and round, like a balloon, and then no matter what he does afterward to mor- 
tify and disgrace you, and to drag your fair standard in the dust, you will always 
have the satisfaction of knowing you are square with him. 

Once when I was young and innocent, I encountered an enormous ray. He was 
not thrust upon me. for I achieved him— and my own ruin also — at one fell stroke. 
I mounted him willingly, nay, eagerly, as Phaeton mounted his chariot, to .show the 
rest of the world how all rays should be done. I mounted his vast, expansive skin 
over a, clay-covered manikin that had edges like a Damascus razor, and I made him 
fiat. He was liat enough to navigate the Platte River at low water, which even a 
thick shingle can not do. He was lifelike and likewise was a great triumph. Put 
almost the moment my hack was turned upon him forever, he went hack upon me. 



BOO REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

I had put li i in up to stay put, so far as my part was concerned, so he just got mad 
and literally tore himself to tatters. He became almost a total wreck, and to make 
my defeat a more genuine and unmitigated crusher. Prof. Ward sent word tome, 
all the way from Washington, that he would sell me that large ray for $5. I never 
forgave him for that. 

The best way to mount a ray is to make a nice plaster east of it, paint it, and then 
bury the. accursed ray in a compost heap. As a class these fishes are remarkable, and 
highly interesting, and there is a far greater variety of them than anyone who is not 
an ichthyologist might suppose. To me there is no other group of fishes moreinter- 
esting, and, I may add, there is no other group that is, as a general thing, so poorly 
represented in museum collections. They exhibit all possible intermediate forms 
between the ordinary shark and the perfectly round, Hat ray. The intermediate 
forms, Rhinobatii and Rhamphobatis, are naturally really the most interesting.* 

Some very fine plaster of-Paris casts of fishes of all kinds are to be 
found in the collections of the U. S. National Museum, but as has just 
been remarked, for some reason or other the rays are but meagerly rep- 
resented. These fishes, however, cast beautifully in plaster, and their 
colors are not difficult to imitate. It would be hard, for example, to 
find a more fitting specimen for museum exhibition than the plaster 
cast of the skate shown in Plate xx of the present paper. The plastic 
method also reproduces them with even greater fidelity, audit has the 
advantage of not being near so easily injured or broken. So perfect are 
these two methods that I will warrant that were we to take the living 
skate, the gelatine and plaster casts, make photographs of them all of 
the same scale and under the same conditions as the one seen in my 
plate, we could only with the greatest difficulty distinguish among 
them. 

Not only is it possible to reproduce life-like representations of living 

fishes by means of the plaster-of- Paris cast, but to a certain degree we 
can also, by the same means, show some of the habits of this interest- 
ing group of vertebrates. A fine examnle of this is seen in Plate xxi of 
this report, wherein we are presented with a most excellent cast of a 
shark (CarcharMnus obscurus) to whose left side has attached itself a 
Remora (Mcheneis nnucrates), a habit this parasitic fish is habitually 
addicted to, as is well-known. This fine piece of work, done by Mr. 
Joseph Palmer, of the museum, has been colored very closely to imitate 
life, and is not only a most interesting and instinctive object to have on 
exhibition in any zoological museum, but leaves but little to be desired 
in the matter of conveying a correct idea of the form and general appear- 
ance of these fishes, and in a method at once practical and, with care, 
enduring. The mode of mounting such specimens is also seen in the 
figures in the plates, and it probably can not very well be improved 
upon, consisting as it does of two strong metal upright standards of 
the proper length, and which are embedded below in the horizontal 
base or stand of wood. This latter may be either plain pine, painted 
black and heavily varnished, or it may be of any of the dark, hard 



Taxidermy, pp. 215, 216. 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXI 




^ £ 



x _ 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXII 





Nurse Shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum). 
From a plaster cast: greatly reduced. (Cat. No. 16909, U. S. N. M. 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXIII. 




5 ? 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 397 

woods highly polished. In any event the aim should be to have it all of 
a pattern and kind throughout the museum for subjects of one class, as 
these fishes. It admits placing the label adopted by the museum in 
front and in the center below, which may be attached in various ways, 
or simply fastened to an obliquely cut block of wood, finished in the same 
style as the base, and left to rest free upon it. It is important that the 
base should be as long, or nearly as long, as the specimen it supports, 
for that not only lends an appearance of good balance and symmetry 
to the whole, but it also is a great safeguard against the cast being 
accidentally tipped over and broken, or broken by the specimen pro- 
jecting out beyond it too far, and so not properly protecting it. 

The Remora shown in Plate xxi is at once recognized by the black 
stripes down its side and the white corners to the caudal tin. It seems 
to attach itself principally to the sharks, thus differing with its congener 
of the ocean {Remora squalipeta) so frequently found adhering to the 
sides and bottoms of ships at sea, well below their water line. 

Another tine cast of a shark ( Ginghjmostoma cirratum) also in plaster, 
is seen in Plate xxn, and viewed upon superior aspect. This not only 
gives an absolutely correct idea of the animal it was taken from, but 
shows very well the peculiar lateral corrugations of the skin, so charac- 
teristic of this and other species. 

Of the Teleosteans I am enabled to present in my plates quite a num- 
ber of interesting and well-known forms, and if the methods of casting 
in plaster-of-Paris and plastic compounds be so successful in the case 
of the cartilaginous tishes, it requires nothing to be said that it is equally 
applicable to them. 

All of the casts of the specimens here offered are from the collections 
of the National Museum, and the perfect manner in which they are 
done is well exemplified in the specimen of the turbo t shown in Plate 
xxiii (Rhombus maxim us). Most, if not all of them, were executed by 
Mr. Joseph Palmer with the assistance of his son, Mr. William Palmer, 
under the supervision and direction of some ichthyologist of the muse- 
um's staff, and skillfully colored by Mr. A. Z. Shindler. Among the 
principal x>oiuts to be looked to in making such casts is (1) the selec- 
tion of as perfect specimens as possible, especially in the matter of 
unmutilated parts, as fins and tail, and structures of the head; (2) 
the parts should be exhibited in a natural manner or properly spread 
out; (3) the cast so made as to exhibit special characers; it should be 
colored true to nature in a way already indicated; and, (5) finally, 
they should be well mounted, labeled, and exhibited in a closed glass 
case. 

Later on we shall see that fish do not require in these matters quite 
as much knowledge, care, and study as do the reptiles; still they require 
a good deal, and it should invariably be bestowed upon them. 

More or less uniformly colored, and comparatively smooth fishes, 
show up fully as well as those with many salient characters, and this 



398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

is well seen iii such an example as the common Pompano (Trachynotas 
carotin its) of Plate xxrv, Fig. 2, which gives a most complete idea of this 
interesting species. In most of these specimens the ventral tins, it will be 
seen, have, before easting-, been brought up so as to be in contact with 
the body of the fish. This is done with the view of giving them the 
support of the latter and thus greatly decreasing the danger of having 
them broken off either through subsequent handling of the cast or 
otherwise. 

Plaster easts of fishes also admit, in some eases only, of having the 
proper kinds of glass eyes inserted in them after the cast is made; or 
some special structures added, as the barbels of certain species, or 
spines of great delicacy, or hair-like appendages — these structures 
being composed of some other material than plaster, and being painted 
and made to naturally harmonize with the specimen as in life. This is 
rarely, if ever, necessary in the case of those fishes east in gelatine or 
similar plastic compounds. This feature of the work admits of no lit- 
tle skill and knowledge on the part of the caster and painter of these 
vertebrates. Nothing should in any event be omitted that will lend a 
true and life like appearance of the original specimen, and very encour 
aging progress is being made along such lines. 

Another excellent plaster east of a fish is seen in Plate xxv, taken from 
a specimen of the Mirror carp (Gyprinus carpio), a fish with an inter 
esting history in this country now, and which, among other characters, 
is at once recognized by having "extraordinarily large scales which run 
along the sides of the body in three or four rows, the rest of the body 
being bare." 

A fine east is also shown in Plate xxv, fig. 2, it being the Buffalo fish 
(Itiobus urns). 

It is needless almost to invite attention here once more to the fact 
of how well these casts here represent the forms as they appear in life. 
The red fish or bass of. the Southern States (Scicena ocellata) has also 
been east, and a fine example of it exists in the collections of the 
Museum. Where a fish has strong and pronounced external charac- 
ters, such as large scales, large projecting rays to the tail or fins, and 
marked characters of mouth or operculum, they are sure to constitute 
one of the most favorable varieties of fish to cast in plaster, and they, 
when skillfully painted, make someof the most striking specimens among 
a collection of such objects. This may be appreciated by an examina 
tion of the east of the Parrot fish {Scarus sp. ?), shown in Plate XXIV, or 
to nearly an equal extent in the one of the Trigger fish (Balistes capri- 
sens), a specimen of which is to be found in the Museum's collections; 
and as for the reproduction of color markings, we see a good example 
in the cast of the well-known Mud fish (Amia calva), to which Plate 
xxvi, Fig. 2, of this paper is devoted. 

We have already alluded to the use of the plastic method of casting 
for fishes, and so far as my personal investigations have been directed 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXIV, 




Fig. 1. Parrot-fish (Scorns sp. ?). 
From a plaster cast. 




Fig. H. Common Pompano (Trachynotus carolinus). 
From a plaster cast. (Cat. No. 23351, U. S. N. M.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 399 

they have been concerned principally with the work of that nature, done 
by the U. S. Fish Commission, much of which was accomplished with 
the view of having it exhibited at the World's Columbian Exposition. 
In this connection my thanks are due Dr. Tarleton II. Bean for the use 
of a series of photographs of the results of such methods and other 
processes. These, unfortunately, with the single exception of the Opah, 
were taken too small to be used here, and as the originals had been for- 
warded to Chicago, it was too late to have them photographed of a 
larger size. My thanks are also due to Mr. Denton for his kindness in 
showiugme his method of reproducing specimens of fish and reptiles by 
the plastic method from casts made in plaster, and for submitting to 
me for examination specimens of his work after they had been painted 
and prepared for final exhibition. It would be difficult to overestimate 
the value of this kind of work, and the field is a broad one, full of 
importance and interest to the art student in taxidermy. 

Specimens of many species offish made according to such processes 
bear very close resemblance to the living types, so much so that pho- 
tographs of the two are scarcely to be distinguished. This may best 
be appreciated by an examination of the specimen in the U. S. Fish 
Commission, or the reduced photograph which that institution has of 
the plastic cast of the Opah, from a specimen taken upon our own 
coasts. Its peculiar form and high coloring rendered it a specially fine 
subject for the skill of the person who reproduced it. Ichthyologists 
have always expressed great interest in this member of the finny king- 
dom, and if the digression be not considered too great, I will quote 
here what Mr. Goode has said of it in The Fishery Industries of the 
ITnited States (p. 335). According to this distinguished authority, the 
Opah family, or the Lamprididce, " is represented in the Atlantic by a 
single species, Lampris guttata*, a pelagic fish, which appears to be 
more abundant in the deep waters of northern seas than elsewhere. It 
has been observed at many points upon the Norwegian coast, about 
Iceland and Madeira, as well as in the Mediterranean, but is of unusual 
occurrence everywhere, except perhaps about Madeira. On the coast 
of England it is one of the great rarities, and is much sought for by col- 
lectors on account of its beauty. It is said to be one of the most bril- 
liantly colored fishes known — 'red and. green, with tints of purple and 
gold dotted over with silvery round spots. Iris of the eye is scarlet, 
and fins of lively red.' A specimen was obtained years ago near Sable 
Island, Nova Scotia, and the species will doubtless be found still nearer 
our shores. It is said that no young specimens have yet been seen. 
The species attains the length of 4 feet aud more, and is said to be very 
excellent eating." 

Everything that has been said above in regard to the various methods 
employed in times past, as well as at present, for the preservation of 
fishes for exhibition in zoological museums and elsewhere applies with 
equal truth to reptiles. The day has apparently fully arrived when 



400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the advanced student of taxidermy will no more think of employing 
the old time-honored methods of stuffing a frog or a snake or a tortoise 
than he would of mummifying a bird — a practice that was formerly 
recommended, it is said, to avoid the apparent difficulty of removing the 
skin. Of all the effigies, I think, in the forms of bad taxidermy that 
have figured in such nightmares I have suffered from, or in my waking 
dreams, the various stuffed snakes I have seen certainly take the palm. 
They have been enough to frighten clean out of existence one laboring 
under an attack of mania a potu, as well as the reptiles one claims to 
see upon such an occasion. It is almost impossible to remove the skin 
from any kind of an ordinary snake without disastrously disturbing its 
delicate scales and their beautiful arrangement. And, as for the "stuf- 
fing" of frogs, why that may be left to those lovers of the "grotesque 
in taxidermy," for surely such feats have no place in a scientific mu- 
seum, and it has always been a wonder to me how they ever could 
claim even a smile from a thorough naturalist, let alone words of praise. 

My meaning in these premises will be made perfectly clear by turning 
to Plate xxix, Fig. 12, which is from an excellent photograph of a specimen 
of Gould's monitor (Monitor gouldi) now in the collections of the U. S. 
National Museum.* This favored representative of the taxidermy of a 
past decade, formed a part of the South Australian exhibit sent to the 
Centennial Exhibition, at Philadelphia, in 1870, and subsequently, pre- 
sented to the Institution, where it now is. To the enlightened taxider- 
mist my saying it is a stuffed lizard would be all sufficient, but I fain 
would invite attention to the absolutely impossible attitude it has been 
compelled to assume. It is nailed to the base with coarse pins, whose 
heads show on the top of every individual foot. The hind feet are 
rammed to a bursting point — the forefeet are empty. To save length 
of stand the tail has been forced round to the side, and the toes are 
alternately pointing to the four quarters of the globe. We do not pass 
favorably upon that kind of work any more, and the only interest it 
has for me is the stage it represents in the growth and development of 
the art of taxidermy, though it is a comfort to know that the day for 
such ridiculous productions is rapidly passing into history. 

By whatever method done, the casting of most reptiles has one 
great advantage over the casting of most fishes — an advantage to the 
extent of exercising a greater. skill and knowledge on the part of the 
operator, for it must be easy for one to realize that to make a plaster 
mold of a flounder and a plaster mold of a frog are two very dif- 
ferent matters. The first, beyond a spreading of tail and fins, requires 
but little arrangement, whereas in the case of the second I have met 
with many a person who could not for the life of him place a dead 
frog in a natural attitude, to say nothing of making one ready and 
obtaining a plaster mold of it. Lizards are sometimes still worse. It 
is now, then, that we come to a point where good photographs, good 



* Catalogue No. 8896. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXV. 




Fig. 1. Mirror Carp (Ci/priuuu carpio). 
From a plaster cast ; greatly reduced. (Cat. No. 25257, U. S. N. M.) 




Fig. 2. Buffalo-fish (Ictiobus urus). 
From a plaster cast; greatly reduced. (Cat. No. 23558, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXVI. 




The Mud-fish (Amia calvd). 

Plaster cast. (Cat. No. 20776, U. S. N. M.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 401 

models, and good illustrations in the vertebrate scries really first 
come into play. It is only the exception among fishes that such 
necessary adjuncts elsewhere will be found useful. One would hardly 
think of looking for a model to make a cast of a ''Needle Gar," for 
instance; he might in the case of such a form as the Goosefish (LopJiius 
pisctttoriitx); whereas in the case of an attacking Cobra, or some of 
the winged or frilled lizards models would soon be in demand, or at 
least very much more so. Snakes form no exception to these remarks, 
for the attitudes assumed by them in nature are not only various 
in the extreme, but in some cases downright peculiar. And, in good 
groups of reptiles peculiar characters and habits should be exhibited 
by showing them or exhibiting them by a duplication of the species 
composing the group. The blowing viper (Seterodon) should not only 
be preserved and shown with expanded and flattened fore parts, but at 
a state of rest likewise. Take another example in the little lizard 
Anolis, the American chameleon ; we would by no means gain a full 
idea of its form aud appearance from one specimen, colored bright pea- 
green, and the flaming red ornament at the throat retracted; but we 
should have a group of at least four or five of them, showing all such 
remarkable characters, as well as the various tints it may assume when 
it exerts it chameleonic powers. With many lizards and with many 
snakes this is not always necessary, and with them one good, faithfully 
colored cast will be quite sufficient. 

Of course, the very large reptiles, as large Iguanas, Alligators, and 
even such large snakes as Anacondas and Pythons, admit of being skill- 
fully mounted by the manufacture of bodies made of tow — that is, a 
manakin,with internal wire supports and a final clay covering; but, as 
1 have said, it would appear that the time has come when all small rep- 
tiles will no longer be so preserved, and the tendency to cast them is on 
the increase. An ingenious method of preserving small reptiles in al- 
cohol is resorted to by Mr. Samuel Garmau at the Museum of Com- 
parative Zoology at' Harvard College, but I have never had the personal 
opportunity of investigating it, though the fact that so able an herpi- 
tologist recommends it as is Mr. Garman is enough to say that it pos- 
sesses its merits for museum purposes. He claims that by its means 
he "can give the specimens life like attitudes, or arrange them in 
groups, as if playing, courting, or fighting; and the liquid heightens 
their beauty, as the water does that of the pebble at the seashore, 
while ravages of insects are entirely out of the question."' 

The larger Chelonia, as the Hawksbill, the Green turtle, the Leather- 
back, and the Loggerhead, can also be mounted by the processes usually 
recommended by the best taxidermists and successfully, and Mr. Lucas 
has pointed out an admirable way for mounting the smaller turtles,* 

* Lucas, F. A. : On the mounting of turtles. Third Ann. Rep. Soc. Aiiut. Taxider- 
mists, 1882-'83, pp. 84-90, 2 figs. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 26 



402 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

but even this does not convince me but what such mounts Avill finally 
be superseded by the plastic methods and subsequent artistic painting. 
I speak especially for the large scientific institutions where a full series 
of alcoholics can be maintained in alcohol, and the exhibition series are 
intended simply to faithfully present the external characters and ai>- 
pearances of the specimens. 

The National Museum possesses at least one very elegantly preserved 
crocodile. Mounted much in the manner pointed out above, it has been 
placed in an attitude of rest, with very simple surroundings, but made 
the more interesting from the fact that the taxidermist has placed upon 
its back one or two specimens of that small Black-headed Plover 
(Charadrius melanocephalus), which in nature may often be seen perched 
there, attracted as it is by the insects which occur in numbers upon 
that part of the huge reptile. 

Here we not only get a fine and naturally preserved specimen of an 
important and widely known animal, but we likewise have represented 
in the most striking manner one of the most engaging chapters in its 
history. 

In alluding to groups of re p tiles, llornaday, after all his long experi- 
ence, has said that — 

I know of but one good group of reptiles, and that is a group of turtles which 
was prepared by Mr. F. A. Lucas, and displayed at the exhibition of the S. A. T. iu 
New York in 1883, where it received a medal, and afterwards was presented by him 
to the National Museum. This altogether unique and pretty group teaches one very 
important lesson, viz, that even the most commonplace animals are interesting when 
they are well mounted and grouped with a setting which represents their natural 
haunts. Some of the specimens in this group are represented above water, and some 
beneath it, while one enterprising individual is caught in the act of diving, with 
half of his body under water and the other half out. The situation represents the 
successful accomplishment of a very neat mechanical feat and is of itself an illustra- 
tion of the possibilities in such matters." 

But progress of the most substantial nature, thanks to Mr. Goode, 
is now being made along such lines in his collections of the U. S. National 
Museum, and I believe that in a very few years hence the exhibition 
series of this institution will stand among the very finest in the world. 
The consummate skill of the Palmers, Mr. Lucas, and a large trained 
staff of many others of the first ability in designing, painting, and cast- 
ing, is sure to make it so. Dr. Stejneger has been kind enough to place 
at my disposition a number of the casts of his department (Reptiles), 
for which and other courtesies my thanks are here tendered him. 

With regard to the attitudes assumed by snakes, we may say that 
they are exceedingly numerous and many of them very interesting to 
behold. To secure figures of these for the use of modelers and casters 
we have a host of fine illustrations throughout the literature of reptiles, 
but I am more and more inclined to believe that a work devoted to a 
carfully prepared series of photographs of snakes taken directly in 



* Taxidermy, pp. 249, 250. 



Report of National M useum , 1892,-ShufeWt. 



Plate XXVII. 





--:::=:— ;~_ 



i 'djk. i 



Report of National Museum, 1892— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXVIII. 




SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 403 

their natural haunts is in reality what is now most in demand. At 
zoological gardens, at least here at Washington, they are usually kept 
in wire cages, often huddled together, and rarely assume the animated 
attitudes most natural to them, and so, even if photographs could be 
obtained of them there, they would hardly meet the end in view. That 
they are easily obtained in nature I have recently demonstrated in one 
instance for illustration in the present connection, though I am confident 
with just a little more practice in that way the results can be made all 
that is to be desired. About a month ago on my premises I secured a 
good-sized Garter snake, uninjured in the least degree, and at once 
•placed him in a large glass jar. Immediately I cut out, on the bank 
of a stream on my place, a suitable piece of ground, with plants glow- 
ing on it, for my "-base." This 1 placed out of doors on a large box 
about the height of my camera, and for a background behind it I 
placed a large sheet of common white blotting paper. My snake was 
then removed from his jar and placed on the base. By tapping him 
on the head he at once threw himself in the position I secured him in 
in the photograph, of which Plate xxvn is a good copy. 

Now, this operation altogether took less than an hour, and a fairly 
good figure was the result. But it may be accomplished very easily in 
another way; for all we have to do is to " go afield " armed with our 
camera and a necessary number of plates, and a thin board covered 
with white blotting paper for our background, to be used for cutting 
off superfluous foliage, etc. On meeting with a snake, or indeed any 
small animal, he may in 50 per cent of the cases be obtained by the 
methods above indicated. Recently 1 have even succeeded in get- 
ting them on the ground by placing the camera right down in front 
of them, putting up my background, then assuming a prone position 
myself, focused and got my figure. 

Such a photograph of the Heloderinas was obtained by me in New 
Mexico. The specimens represented in it were my own; they were 
healthy and vigorous, and had been disporting themselves in the sun, 
when, becoming tired, they sought the shade of some plants, and as 
they assumed positions of rest I there photographed them. 

All the figures of snakes given in the present report are from plaster- 
of-Paris casts in the collections of the National Museum. They were 
all made, I believe, by Mr. Joseph Palmer, and most naturally colored. 
They are wonderfully tine things, and a credit to any museum in exist- 
ence. But what is still more to the point they faithfully represent the 
originals, and that is what we want. Not only are these snakes in 
plaster, but so are the tasteful bases of rock, etc., upon which they have 
been placed. Take, for example, the rattlesnake shown in cast !>50. 
With tail elevated, and the reptile thrown into natural coils, partly 
within the recess of the spreading roots of a large tree, Ave have an 
accomplishment in plaster theequal of which for that particular snake 
I do not believe to be extant. 



404 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Quite as good is the young - Ancistrodon in the collection, for here, too, 
the snake is partly within a recess and fully the anterior fourth of the 
animal free. 

Errors can sometimes occur, however, even in apparently such a sim- 
ple procedure as properly coiling - up a snake for a plaster cast, and as 
tine a work of art as it is in other respects, I am inclined to think that 
in nature a snake never so abruptly bends the neck as close to the head 
as lias been done for the one in Plate xxx. A dead snake may be placed 
in a great many postures which in nature it never assumes, and these 
dead attitudes must be guarded against; and it is just here where the 
results of good photographs of snakes in nature come in most advan- 
tageously. 

In the coloring' of snakes and other reptiles we should rely solely 
upon specimens that are alive, and taken as subjects if possible just 
after the " shed." It is almost needless to add that a cast should only 
be painted from the snake from which the cast was made, and not 
another specimen of the same species. Frogs, for some reason or other, 
are not always well drawn and colored, and, as I have before re- 
marked, some of the most abominable stuffed specimens and casts of 
them are in existence. Those in some of our museums bear no closer 
resemblance to the original animal than a camel does to a chestnut 
burr. They are simply horrid. This is often the case, too, in many 
departments of decorative art. Even our Indians, who occasionally 
make pretty good hits, crude as they are, at pictorial decoration with 
some of the animals they happen to be most familiar with, miss it 
when they try the frog. Attempts made by the Japanese in such mat- 
ters are often very much better than the results turned out by the 
brushes aud implements of our own artists and designers. There is one 
very life-like plaster-of-Paris cast, colored, of this Batrachian in the 
collections of the National Museum, and it is reproduced in Plate xxxi 
of the present paper. It shows the animal in one of its most common 
poses, and may well serve as a model for anyone who desires to copy 
it for any purpose whatsoever. 

Some grand results in the matter of the casting of turtles, both large 
and small ones, have been accomplished in the workshops of the 
Museum. These are either in plaster-of-Paris like all the specimens 
here figured, or in some few cases the natural shell of the animal has 
been retained, and the exposed external parts, as head, legs, and tail, 
cast in the usual plastic material used, and subsequently fitted to the 
former. When cast in plaster-of-Paris, they of course have to be painted, 
as in the case of all animals so reproduced. When photographed, 
these tints do not show, and consequently my figures, with the par- 
tial exception of the box tortoise (Gistudo), exhibit only the form of 
the specimen. 

Especial attention is invited to the beautiful cast of Aspidonectes 
Plate xxxit, which is not more than one-sixth the linear length of the 



Report of National Museum, 1 892._Shufeldt. 



Plate XXIX. 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXIXa>. 




Monitor Goi-ldi. 
Stuffed specimen; old style, faulty mounting. (Cat. No. 8896, U. S. N. 31.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Snufeldt. 



Plate XXX. 




Rep 



ortof National Museum, 1892,-Shufeldt. 



PLATE XXXI. 




SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 405 

original. So far as external form is concerned it simply stands as 
good as the original, as ottering- to the naturalists of all ages an abso- 
lutely correct idea of this interesting chelonian. Lizards are more 
difficult to cast than are turtles, as in many of their details of external 
structure they are more delicately formed, and, upon the whole, I do 
not think an equal success has been attained at the Museum in the 
plaster casting of saurian s as has in the case of the chelonians. 
Nevertheless the plaster casts of some of the larger lizards leave us 
nothing to be desired in that art. A truly magnificent thing is seen in 
the plaster cast of Tupinambis (Plate xxxv). It would seem to be per- 
fect in every particular, and by all odds is the finest result of the kind 
that I have ever had the pleasure of examining. 

Just here this is all 1 have to say in regard to the preservation of 
reptiles tor museum exhibition, but the subject, in a general way, will 
be reverted to again before closing this paper. 

We next pass to a consideration of the preservation of birds. Upon 
entering this department, after passing fish and reptiles in review, we 
seem almost to come into entirely new fields. Zoologically birds are not 
one bit more important than either fishes or reptiles, but from a popular 
standpoint they have probably received, as every biologist knows, fully 
fifty times the attention. Ornithological literature, taken by and large, 
is a hundred fold more voluminous than that of the two other groups just 
mentioned put together. Thousands of birds have been preserved by 
one method or another (not including alcoholics), to one fish. When one 
alludes to the art of taxidermy in the presence of the laity the idea that 
first comes up is, that the taxidermy of birds only is intended ; mammals 
are far less frequently thought of by such people; and fish and reptiles 
rarely or never. Plates, figures, drawings, and illustrations of this 
group are far more numerous; and, notwithstanding my sincere efforts 
to equalize the illustrations for the various departments in this paper, 
somehow or other the plates of birds constitute nearly one-half of 
them. Many taxidermists devote themselves to birds alone, and it is 
only those in this country who are really finished adepts in the art that 
can skillfully handle the preservation of any kind of an animal what- 
ever, birds included. 

Taking all this into consideration, one would naturally think that that 
department of taxidermy had made far greater progress than any other; 
but I hasten to say this is by no means the case. If we take the col- 
lections of such an institution as the National Museum for example, we 
find upon examination that there is quite as much bad taxidermy among 
birds as there is among mammals, and when it is bad it is very bad. 
On the other hand, from the host of "terrifies' 1 that still linger in the 
cases of the ornithological department there has been growing out of 
it of recent years a most satisfactory and most encouraging progress. 
Both individual specimens as well as groups of birds are now being 
produced which bear every evidence of the highest accomplishments 



400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

attained to by taxidermists anywhere in the world. There are two great 
reasons for this : First, taxidermy itself has only recently been raised 
from the plane of mere cheap jobbery to the place it long ago should 
have occupied — that is, to a school of living art; and, second, the selec- 
tion from that school for employment in the Museum of at least a rep- 
resentation. 

Everything 1 have thus far said in the foregoing pages in the matter 
of models, of grouping, and, indeed, of reproducing nature in the Museum 
with respect to fishes and reptiles, applies with equal force to birds. 
With regard to the photography of birds in their native haunts and 
elsewhere, for the purpose of securing models as guides to natural atti- 
tudes of this class of vertebrates for the taxidermie artist, it would seem 
to be far more important here than with either reptiles or fish. This is 
so from the fact that in the case with the last two the specimens are 
now most frequently cast, while, as we well know, with birds it is differ- 
ent; they being skinned, the artist must have a model to go by for the 
restoration of form. 

Where models are not followed, especially in those cases where the 
taxidermist may never have seen the bird either alive or even a good 
figure of it, the most pitiable results follow. This is well seen in PI. 
xxxvi, showing two king penguins — birds of the same species. The 
taller of the two was mounted by one of the old schoolmen taxider- 
mists years ago, and it is so bad that I consider it quite beyond the 
pale of criticism. The second and more upright bird, recently done at 
the Museum, although in some particulars not everything it should be, 
is such an advance upon the first, that comparison becomes quite unnec- 
essary. Bad mounting of the kind just referred to is still more disas- 
trous when it has been done in the case of a bird of great rarity, and 
consequently of almost priceless value. This was unfortunately the 
case in regard to the specimen of the Great Auk (Plautus impennis) 
owned by the National Museum. A figure of this as first mounted by 
some ancient bungler is shown on PI. xxxvn, Fig. 1. No living auk in 
good health ever stood in that position; but thanks to what art can 
sometimes accomplish in these days, this outraged bird was not des- 
tined for all eternity to stand as a drum-major at dress parade. 

It was determined to have it remounted; an operation, owing to the 
age of the specimen and a lack of knowledge as to what condition the 
.skin might be in, that required a full measure of judgment relative to 
what taxidermy could hope for in such premises. The work of remod- 
eling was accomplished by Mr. Wood, of the National Museum, and the 
result is shown in Plate xxxvn, Fig. 2, and this now probably extinct 
fowl, one of the treasures of the department, presents a far more respect- 
able appearance, and is certainly posed in a far more natural attitude, 
though judging from Audubon's plate of it, I believe it still to be not a 
posture this auk was wont to assume. Still, it was most assuredly the 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXII. 




Soft-shelled Turtle (Aspidonectes ferox, ad.). 
From a plaster cast; greatly reduced. (Cat. Xo. 8899, U. S. N, M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892 — Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXIII. 




Report of National Museum, 1892,-Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXIV. 




« « 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXV. 





fs#*i$>%. 




•*,.*» : ***u 



Tcpinambis teguixin. 
From a plaster cast ; reduced. (Cat. No. 30790, U.§. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXVI. 




Old and Improved Methods of Mounting a Penguin. 
From specimens in the National Museum. (Cat. Nos. 124684 and 15686, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXVII, 





SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 407 

very best that could have beeu done under the circumstances; for when 
birds' necks are stretched out of all proportion, and then allowed to 
remain that way for years, it is by no means an easy matter to even 
partially restore them again to their normal lengths. Even among the 
more common birds there still linger numerous examples of old-style 
bird stuffing in the cases of the National Museum. Some of these abso- 
lutely violate every correct principle of taxidermy, and it is devoutly 
to be hoped that the time is not far distant when they can be presented 
to some fourth-rate museum or college "in the provinces." Surely 
both this Museum and the people have outgrown such scarecrows. I 
allude to such looking affairs as we have represented in Plate xxxvni 
of this report, a specimen of Larus occidentalis. Now, gulls make espe- 
cially beautiful subjects when they are well mounted ; for in nature they 
are graceful in the extreme, and their plumages, so simple and so harmo- 
niously blended, are very attractive. Plate xxxix, a mounted specimen 
of Creagrus furcatus in the national collection, is in my opinion an ab- 
solutely lifelike reproduction of the bird as it appeared when it was 
alive. It is nature ami simplicity itself, and, with its neat stand, leaves 
nothing to be desired in the way of mounting a single individual in an 
attitude of rest.* 

There is no class of vertebrates that admit of grouping for museum 
exhibition that can exceed birds. Most of the species are small, which 
is an advantage, inasmuch it allows us to increase the amount of nat- 
ural surroundings; then a great many birds have very peculiar habits 
and construct a great variety of nests, and these may often be repro- 
duced with the greatest possible interest, t 

One of the most lifelike groups of birds known to me is the pair of 
Black Ducks (Anas obsoura) and young, which form a part of the 
ornithological mounted collection of the American Museum of Natural 
History of New York City. Through the kindness of Dr. J. A. Allen, 

"This gull was the work of Mr. Nelson R. Wood, one of the taxidermists employed 
in the National Museum, who also prepared all the mounted domestic fowls and 
pigeons here shown with the exception of the white-faced hlack Spanish cock (Plate 
i. xix, Fig. 2) ; the Parrot (Plate xliv, Figs. 1, 2) ; the Baltimore oriole (Plate lxxiii) ; 
the turkey (Plate XLVIH,); and the great horned owl (Plate i.xxii). Mr. Wood 
has cheerfully tendered his assistance to me in several ways during my examination 
of specimens, for which he fully deserves my thanks, as he does for the loan of his 
living specimen of Gambel's partridge and Black Sumatra cock, both of which by 
photography have been secured for plates for this paper. 

tAccording to Mr. Goode: "The mounting of animals in picturesque and lifelike 
groups in the midst of accessories taken from their natural haunts appears to have 
been first attempted by Prof. Paolo Savi in the early part of the present century. 
In the museum of the University of Pisa nearly one hundred of these arc still pre- 
served. One of these, a group of starlings upon the head of a dead sheep, is as tine 
as anything since produced anywhere; and a pair of boar hounds attacking a boar 
is, for action, the best piece of mammal mounting I have ever seen. The collection 
is a wonderful one, and is still perfectly preserved." 



408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

of that institution, I am enabled to present that group here as one of 
my illustrations. It is shown in Plate xl.* 

The subjects shown in Plate xliii, Parrot; Plate i.xi, California Partridge; Plate 
lxii, Massena Partridge; Plate LXni, Quail; Plate i.ix, Fig. 2, Quail; Plate lxiv, 
English Pheasant; Plate lxv, Moor Cock; Plate lxvii, Ruffled Grouse; Plate lxvii, 
Fig. 1, Dusky Grouse; Plate lxvii, Fig. 2, Richardson's Grouse, and the well-mounted 
turkey head in Plate lxix, are all examples of Mr. Densiow's style of mounting. 
My thanks are due him for the loan of the drawing from which the figure of the 
Great Horned ( hvl, shown iu Plate i.xxn, was made. It is from his well-tilled "note- 
book " of drawings and photographs of all kinds of animals from life and good 
illustrations — just such a book as every taxidermist should compile. Mr. Denslow 
was at one time employed by the National Museum and is in my opinion a taxider- 
mist of the highest order of merit. 

Great simplicity may characterize groups of birds, or they may be 
gotten up with every refinement of detail. A beautiful piece of work 
representing the former style is to be found in the collection, where 
two flamingoes and their nests are represented; while of the latter 
kind, it would be difficult to find a group anywhere that would present so 
many interesting features, and such wonderful harmony in detail, as is 
seen in the group of jacanas, which, together with the flamingoes, were 
sent on to the World's Columbian Exposition. The piece of pond work in 
this latter, including the flowers and their leaves, and the handling of the 
bottom, are simply exquisite. Such work is an adornment to any 
museum, and a whole chapter in zoological science to any visitor who 
may chance to give it any study whatever. The artist, I regret to say, 
is not known to me, but there is no question that he knew a jacaua.t I 
have seen the birds alive in nature, and the way he has rendered the 
peculiar habit the males have of vertically erecting their Mings, in a 
manner similar to our Solitary sandpiper, is capital. This delicate case, 
as I have just said, was sent on to the World's Fair at Chicago, and it 
is to be hoped that no misfortune will befall it either in going there 
or having it returned here. 

Perhaps some of the finest groups in the world are at South Kensing- 
ton of the British Museum, and at the commencement of this paper I 
quite extensively quoted from Dr. Sharpe's article upon the nature of 
many of them. That distinguished ornithologist, who is in charge of 
the department of ornithology there, has kindly sent me, as I have 
before said, two beautiful photographs of their method of mounting 
specimens of the diurnal Raptores. Those photographs, unfortunately, 
1 had to have very much reduced, but still they show very well the 

*This group was designed and prepared by Mr. Jenness Richardson, at the Ameri- 
can Museum of Natural History, in 1890; the studies being made from life at Gar- 
diner's Island. New York, in May. 1889. The accessories were made by Mrs. E. S. 
Mogridge, uuder the supervision of Mr. Richardson, and are actual facsimiles from 
nature. 

iThe group was mounted by Henry Marshall, for many years the principal bird 
taxidermist in the National Museum. — Editor. 



Report of National Museum, 1892 — Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXVIII. 







Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate XXXIX. 







?eport of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XL. 







p a 



_i v 
£ o 

3 3 



A! 1) 
3 « 
■<,§ 

u o 

5 « 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 409 

grandeur of the scale upon which such work is executed. Their copies 
are faithfully rendered in Plates xli and xlii, and to study them simply 
means to excite our fullest admiration for such bold and truthful ren- 
dering'. In Plate xli one of the birds is exhibited in full flight, and yet 
the rocky wall behind him seems to be in contact with his tail, and, in- 
asmuch as there is no perch for him to have pitched off of in full flight, 
the question might naturally arise, going at the rate he apparently is, 
whence did he come? The defect so apparent is probably due to the 
picture itself, which does not represent the actual and necessary space 
that exists between the sailing bird and the rocky cliff behind him. 

Such illustrations bring up to my mind the great question of the 
amount of activity permissible in birds mounted for museum exhibi- 
tion. My opinion in these premises can be briefly put. The great bulk 
of individual specimens of small birds exhibited in the cases of a large 
scientific zoological museum should be mounted up on the T of the 
perch in one of the most common attitudes of the species; a slight dip- 
ping forwards, or slight inclination of the head in some directiou, being 
alone permissible. But this would give rise to great monotony, and to 
break that we would advise a certain amount of activity in single spec- 
imens. This should be accorded to those birds which normally are very 
active in nature. With respect to groups of birds we may to a greater 
extent indulge in arranging birds in different attitudes. At the best 
this is what we would naturally look for anyway, for in groups of birds 
the individuals composing it are more frequently mounted in the act 
of performing something, either feeding their young or flying, or nest- 
building, or some other avocation. Even violent action, as fighting 
each other, or capturing their prey, may be introduced in a limited 
number of groups. 

The scolding parrot, shown in Plate XLin, which, by the way, is a mas 
tei-ly piece of work, is an excellent example of activity shown in a single 
specimen, and this one subject would give relief to a dozen quiet par- 
rots in the same case; or, for example, the other species, equally as well 
rendered, shown in two views in I Mate xliv, Figs. 1 and 2. For ordinary 
small birds the style shown for the female oriole in Plate lxxiii is some- 
times desirable, especially when a bird is selected having such active hab- 
its as the oriole has, and where the artist can succeed in reproducing one 
of its more usual postures as well as has been done in the case of this 
specimen. Otherwise it most certainly should not be attempted. But 
the acme of all activity and of all grouping is reached when such artis- 
tic pieces of work, so faithfully executed, so full of interest and all that 
is natural, are set forth as the piece shown in Plate xlv. Mr. Adams 
who both collected and mounted this most attractive thing, would cer- 
tainly have "capped the climax" had he been able to have brought 
home the very section of the tree in which that identical Ilornbill built 
her nest. This part is artificial, having been built up of line papier- 
mache ; but it is only fairly well done. It represents the male of one of the 



410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

species of Hornbills feeding the female, whom he has imprisoned during 
the period of incubation in a hollow tree. I never pass it that I do not 
think of what Wallace has said of the habit in his Malay Archipelago 

(p. 147): 

I had sent my hunters to shoot and while I was at hreakfast they returned, bring- 
ing me a fine large male of the Buceroa bicornis, which one of them assured me he 
had shot while feeding the female, which was shut up in a hole iu a tree. I had 
often read of this curious habit, and immediately returned to the place, accompa- 
nied by several of the natives. After crossing a stream and a bog, we found a large 
tree leaning over some water, and on its lower side, at a height of about 20 feet, 
appeared a small hole, audAvhat looked like a quantity of mud, which 1 was assured 
had been used iu stopping up the largo hole. After a while we heard the harsh cry 
of a bird inside, and could see the white extremity of its beak put out. I offered a 
rupee to anyone who would go up and get out the bird, with the egg or young oue, 
but they all declared it was too difficult and they were afraid to try. I therefore 
very reluctantly came away. In about an hour afterward, much to my surprise, a 
tremendous loud, hoarse screaming was heard, and the bird was brought me, to- 
gether with a young one which had been found iu the hole. This was a most curi- 
ous object, as large as a pigeon, but without a pa tide of plumage on any part of it. 
It was exceedingly plump and soft, and with a semitransparent skin, so that it 
looked more like a bag of jelly with head and feet stuck on than like a real bird. 

The extraordinary habit of the male in plastering up the female with her egg and 
feeding her during the whole time of incubation and till the young one is fledged, is 
common to several of the large hornbills, and is one of those strange facts in natural 
history which are "stranger than fiction." 

A very favorable commencement has been made at the National 
Museum of illustrating our own native birds by similar methods, and 
it would not be easy to overestimate the value and interest that 
attach to so important a step. We have already in one handsome 
single case a pair of shrikes with their nest and young in a thorn-apple 
bush, while upon several of the spines of the hitter are suspended vari- 
ous insects and a small mammal, showing the habit of those interesting 
birds in nature of thus impaling such creatures. Others are in the 
course of making, and still others in contemplation. A pair of Wood 
Ducks with their real nest, taken from some lofty tree, is a good sub- 
ject for some enterprising artist, and many others suggest themselves 
to us. There were magnificent groups of our birds sent on to the 
Columbian Exposition at Chicago, and when these are returned, as 
they Mill be, it will form a fine basis for such a collection to be added 
to in the future. I fear I must leave a great deal unsaid here that I 
would like to say, but it is to be devoutly hoped that the wide interest 
our people are taking in such matters, and the national desire of build- 
ing up a National Museum at our fair capital, will induce our Govern- 
ment to open the public purse to the extent of bestowing the room 
required for the proper exhibition of this series, even to the giving of a 
large and suitable building, now so much needed through the rapid 
increase and accumulation of such treasures. 

This will be the more necessary inasmuch as within a few years past, 
through the wise foresight of Mr. Goode, another very important de- 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XLI. 




X o 



X — 



z 1.' 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XLII. 




Method of Mounting Diurnal Raptores employed in the British Museum. 

Reproduced from a photograph Isnt by Dr. R. Bmvdler Sharpe, keeper of the Department of 
Ornithology, British Museum. 



Report of National M useum , 1892,-Shufeldt. 



Plate XLIII. 





"-*-*-.— fa crcr Mu 



seum. (Cat. No. 126612, U. S. N 



3. N. M.i 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XLIV. 




, \ 


$ 










lf \v~ 




Report of National Museum, 1892—Shufeldt. 



Plate XLV. 




IP 1 ' w v % 

iiii 



Male Hornbill Feeding Imprisoned Female. 
(Cat. No. 116621, U. S. N. M. Collected and mounted by Mr. C. F. Adams.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 411 

partment is growing up at the Government museums, and this in the 
field we now have under consideration, and it is the exhibition of the 
finest possible specimens of all our domesticated fowls, especially 
pigeons, chickens, and the like. So far as the art has applied itself to 
the preservation and representation of these lately, it lias been most 
satisfactory, and many masterpieces of this kind now adorn the scries. 

The style in which the fowls are being done is well exemplified in 
Plates xlvi and xlvii. Mr. 0. A. Sharp, of Lockport, N. V.. imported 
the birds there shown from England. They are both prize-winners, and 
both splendid samples of Indian game fowl, cock and hen. At their 
death they were presented by Mr. Sharp to the National Museum. 
"Lady Whitfield," the hen, is an hundred-dollar bird, while her consort 
brought $350. From an artistic point of view, in so far as taxidermy 
is concerned, they are markedly superior pieces of workmanship and 
in every particular — pose, topographical anatomy, coloring, spirit, and 
all. To appreciate their beauty, we have but to compare them with 
some of the taxidermy that was done during the old regime of the 
Museum's history. I mean such types of it as I am enabled to show in 
Plate xlix, Fig. 2 — a- White-faced black Spanish cock — a relic I ex- 
humed from the vaults of the specimens now being discarded. What a 
beauty ( ?) — saddle-backed, tail thrown up like a toucan's, wires show- 
ing everywhere, most all of his body in front of his legs, stepping off 
with both feet flat on the ground, and such a weird, grotesque, con- 
sequential, lop-sided aspect anyway — this fright with no form of a fowl 
known to me is only fit to grace the front window of a fourth-class cheap 
bird u stutter's" shop. A few more such " spooks" as this still linger on 
exhibition, as if by courtesy to the past, but they will shortly have to 
make way before the work now coming in. 

Sometimes these game cocks are "undubbed," that is their wattles 
and comb are not trimmed oft*. In preserving these parts in a bird like 
this they are cast from the original and restored in a plastic material, 
that will keep indefinitely without change of form or color. After the 
bird is mounted, these are properly attached in their places on the 
head, and the suture lines colored over. The effect is absolutely per- 
fect, and to show how perfect it is I have introduced two additional 
figures, nearly life size, of the head of a game cock (Plate xlviii, Figs. 
1, 2). They will bear the minutest inspection from every critical point 
known to taxidermists. In Fig. 2 the eye is unfortunately marred by 
the light refraction, but we can not avoid that in photography. Thor- 
oughly lifelike again is the pretty specimen shown in Plate L, a Silver- 
spangled Hamburg hen. The artist who mounted this specimen is 
a close student at all times of the various attitudes assumed not only 
by fowls and pigeons of all kinds, but of the feathered creation at 
large, and in tbis instance has happily hit the appearance of a hen 
feeding as she walks along or regarding some small object on the 
ground that has attracted her attention. 



412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Another worthy subject is seen in Plate xlix, Fig. 1, a proud old 
black Sumatra cock, that comes from a line of fowls unsurpassed by 
any in beauty or from. Mr. Wood, of the Museum, owns one or more 
of the grandsons of the rooster here portrayed, and through the skill 
and patience of Mr. T. W. Smillie, in charge of the photographic gallery 
of the National Museum, I am enabled to present figures from photo- 
graphs of this cock, taken from the live bird. 

They are valuable as models, going to show the disposition of plum 
age, the contour of general form, its attitudes, and general appear- 
ance. These fowls are black all over, with strong blue and green 
reflections in every changing light. Special attention is invited to the 
elegant manner in which the superb tail is horizontally carried and the 
proud carriage of the bird in Plate lxi. 0*ye artists of the pen and 
block who diligently illustrate for our thousand and one agricultural 
periodicals all over this country, and sometimes do not quite hit in your 
efforts the galline form divine, pray look upon these portraits before 
getting down to your easels again, and profit thereby! 

Other remarkably fine pieces of work of this kind are seen in Plates 
lii, liv, and lv. They are all equally good and deserving of the highest 
compliment that I can give them, and that is they are absolutely true 
to nature. My only regret is that they are not colored as well, for they 
would then be still more lifelike and their real beauties greatly enhanced. 
This factor is not so much missed in the good old light Brahma hen in 
Plate LV, for she is largely black and white. She was presented to the 
National Museum by Mr. Charles Griffin, of Shelter Island — with the 
cock that goes with her they constitute a pair of fowls of great beauty. 
(Plate liv and lv.) 

Many of the domestic pigeons have also been treated at the Museum 
quite as artistically as have the fowls. No opportunities have been lost 
to catch these in their every mood, and reproduce them in preserved 
specimens of the individuals themselves. One of the prettiest subjects 
sent on to the Chicago fair by the National Museum was a large pigeon- 
cot covered with many varieties of our tame pigeons, both the common 
and the rarer kinds. It was gotten up by Mr. Lucas in a manner that 
admitted of no improvement, bearing as it did a true likeness to an 
original. Two of the pigeons that were upon it are shown in Plate lvi 
and lvii. When one thinks of the stiff and uncouth things that so 
many taxidermists give us and call them pigeons, it is positively grate- 
ful to turn to these here shown, and observe the eminently natural atti- 
tudes in which these gentle creatures have been thrown. One of the 
prettiest pieces of taxidermy that I have ever had the pleasure of study- 
ing is the dozing dovecot pigeon, depicted in Plate lvi. We hope that 
this collection, now so well advanced, will continue to grow both nu- 
merically and in the variety ot the species. Were it possible to obtain 
some of the steps in Mr. Darwin's numerous experiments with pigeons, 
and all that he demonstrated thereby, and the corresponding forms and 



D ort of National Museum, 1892—Shufeldt 



Plate XLVI. 





Indian Game Hen, "Lady Whitfield." 
(Cat. No. 100057, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XLVII. 




Indian Game Cock (dubbed). 
(Cat. No. 106079, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate XLVIII. 







•—- 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt 



Plate XLIX. 




< "3, 







Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate L. 






+#%&£ 




M & 



S3 o 

c 2 



'useum, '892._Shufeldt. 



Plate LI, 




: 



h - 
z 5 



~ g 



3 * 



Report of National Museum, 1 892,-Shufeldt. 



Plate Lll. 




j 



I 



Report of Nat,ona, Museum, ,8 92 ._ Shufe(dt _ 



Plate LJIJ. 





SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 413 

crosses could be obtained, the plan would not be a bad one to devote a 
few eases to illustrate so important a subject. 

When we come to study the collection of mounted specimens of the 
Gallime in the ornithological cases of the Smithsonian Institution in 
the large hall where all the mounted birds are exhibited, we find the 
same condition of affairs presented to us, as has been described for the 
other avian groups. Inferiority of work, as a rule, characterizes the 
older specimens, while real merit marks the most of those that have 
appeared within comparatively recent times. This appears to have 
been the case, in so far as the latter kind are concerned, during a period 
extending over perhaps a twelve month prior to the opening of the 
World's Columbian Exposition. Some fine work began to make its 
appearance just then, due apparently to that cause, which was having 
a similar stimulating infiuence in all quarters, no art or industry being 
exempt from it. The advances in methods and results was being 
silently watched by me with a keen interest and appreciation, not to 
say a feeling of pride and exultation at the genuine gain that was being 
made in such matters. 

My attention, among other things, was especially drawn towards the 
group to which allusion has just been made, particularly the American 
partridges and grouse and their allies. Some of the species of par- 
tridges that were being mounted and placed in the cases struck me as be- 
ing more life-like than was common, and I mentally compared them with 
my recollections of the living species in nature, as well as all the figures I 
knew of them. As the present paper began to take on form I deter- 
mined, if possible, to introduce copies of a few photographs of living 
partridges, and, as has been mentioned on a previous page, the opportu- 
nity was duly presented. Mr. Smillie was good enough in my presence 
to make several exposures upon a living specimen of Gainbers partridge, 
and some of those results are well worthy of publication. They are 
presented in Plate lix, Fig. 1, and Plate lx. In the first figure the 
bird had elevated all his feathers just prior to preening himself. This 
in a way should be compared with the quail shown in Pig. 2, recollect- 
ing, however, that the living bird is not on the ground and that the 
mounted one is done with the act of preening and is just about to shake 
herself. 

In Plate lx the bird was taken as it sat quietly upon a perch, and 
slightly elevated the feathers at the neck and forepart of the body. It 
shows that one of the feathers of its plume was broken and hung down 
below the others and is not a shadow, as might by some be supposed. 
This figure is a fine model for those whe may desire to mount a par- 
tridge in this attitude. Although of a different genus, it is interesting 
to compare this with the partridge shown in Plate lxiii, which is one 
of the best mounted specimens of a Colt tuts with which I am acquainted. 
It will be noticed that the slight flatness that naturally exists over the 
pectoral region is apparent in both the living bird and in the specimen 



414 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

shown iii Plate lxiii. This feature should also be compared with what 
we see in Plate lx. 

Some excellent judges of the taxidermy of birds have spoken very 
highly of the California partridge shown in Plate lxi, and though ap- 
parently in all essential respects faultless in workmanship, design, and 
execution, it is to me not as pleasing a result as the Gyrtonyx seen in 
Plate LiXil. Birds of the latter species I have seen in New Mexico, and 
in nature they exactly have the form here shown. The model used in this 
case, however, was from the figure in Gould's monograph on the Odon- 
tophorincB, while in the case of the California partridge it was from life. 

Of the larger game birds the Museum has quite a number of a char- 
acter not to be excelled by any institution in the world, and probably 
not fully equaled by any other in this country. They must excite even 
the admiration of those who care ever so little for either ornithology or 
for the feats of pure art in taxidermy. But such people, fortunately, 
I am not now dealing with and care less for. But tell me, where is the 
naturalist, or the sportsman, or the taxidermist, or the cultured any- 
where who can not see the extreme beauty and excellence in such 
specimens as I have been permitted to present in such a piece as the 
Pheasant portrayed in Plate lxiv, or the moor cock shown in the next 
plate following, or Plate lxv. It is too bad we can not show the color 
in such a specimen as this, for it is surely a gorgeous fowl. There is 
another specimen of the moor cock in the collection and the taxider- 
mist has attempted to mount it in an attitude of strutting on a log, or 
a large bough, I do not remember which now, for I only remember the 
unpleasant sensation left upon me after having seen the bird itself It 
has the appearance as though it was about to have a spasm. It is an 
excellent example of — very bad taxidermy. 

Wolf's superb drawings form almost an inexhaustible supply of grace- 
ful and accurate postures and positions of all kinds of vertebrates, and 
it was from that work that the artist secured his model for the Ruffed 
grouse reproduced in Plate lxvi. In placing this, however, before the 
camera I gave it a front view rather than a lateral one, this being, as 
is well known, one of the severest tests to which you can submit the 
artist's work, especially in a piece of this kind. How well it stands it 
others must be left to judge; for my own part and in my humble 
opinion it represents to a line, to a feather, a startled grouse as he 
regards from the bough of a tree the object that has alarmed him. The 
balance, with upper wing slightly lowered, with tail flatly outspread, 
raised ruffs, and eager look, the position of the feet — indeed the entire 
poise is admirable throughout. 

In order to show how well some of the other species of our grouse have 
been preserved I chose the two shown in Plate lxvii. Figs. 1, 2, either of 
which are as good as they can be made. It would have been an easy 
matter here to have selected a dozen or more mounted specimens of 
grouse from the collection that would have shown how bad these birds 



Report of National Museu m , I892 ._ Shu 



feldt. 



Plate LIV. 





Light Brahma Cock 
(Cat. No. 106043, u. S. N. M.) 



Report of Nar.onal Muse um , 1892,-Shufeldt 



Plate LV. 




Light Brahma Hkx. 
(Cat. No. 106044, U. S. N. M.i 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 415 

can be mounted when they fall into the bands of the unskilled. It is 
better, however, I think to forget and forgive all that has been done 
in the past, provided we continually strive to copy nature as closely as 
possible in the future. To this end 1 reproduced as many good models 
as possible, and have given only a few showing how taxidermy ought 
not to be done. Examples of the " bow-not- to-do-it" 1 kind have been in- 
troduced here and there only as warnings. 

Our wild turkey seems always to have given trouble to the old-time 
taxidermists, and some perfect frights are made to do duty for that noble 
fowl in the collection. Some of these are so badly prepared that they 
are downright hideous, while in some respects they fail to give any idea 
of the bird or its appearance in nature. The taxidermy of the turkey, 
moreover, presents difficulties that are to be encountered only in a lim- 
ited number of birds in any avifauna. Chief among these problems is 
the proper preservation of the practically featherless head. This is not 
only without feathers, as we know, but in life is highly colored, corru- 
gated, and wattled below. Whoever it was that prepared the turkeys 
in former times that now disgrace the cases of the ornithological depart- 
ment I do not pretend to know, any more than I know the reason why 
such miserable fifth-class pieces of work are retained there, unless it 
be something after the order of Chinese ancestry worship, and an op- 
posing of the methods of the moderns. 

To condemn the bad and to recommend every result that reproduces 
nature is my object here, and this thought was uppermost in my mind 
when the comparison made iu Plate lxix was undertaken. As one looks 
at this plate the left-hand head shows how wretchedly bad meleagriue 
taxidermy may be done sometimes* The wattle-like comb has had no 
pains whatever taken with it, and appears more like a curved, semi- 
erect, filamentous horn than anything else; the skin of the head has 
been stretched down an inch lower than it belongs, rendered possible 
by the "stufifer" eliminating all the corrugations that naturally occur 
in it; then the feathers that belong on the back of the neck are twisted 
round to the front. After it was dry he further insulted the poor bird 
by blotching his neck all over with red, white, and bluepaint — patriotic, 
but a villainous practice notwithstanding. 

Compare this with the second head in the same plate. In the first 
place it is perfect iu form, and all the parts are naturally disposed. 
This bird's head is restored in wax — that, is the skin of it is, together 
with the comb and anteroinferior wattles. In this the proper colors 
have been so adroitly incorporated that the effect produced is life-like 
in the highest degree. Even the little hair-like feathers have been by 
a process of the art normally scattered in their places over the head. 
The remainder of the bird is prepared quite in keeping with this truly 
beautifully preserved specimen. An old gobbler of this species is shown 
in Plate lxviii. He is mounted in the act of strutting, and the models 
for it have been furnished principally by the act as it is performed by 



416 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the domesticated bird. I consider this to be one of the finest pieces of 
modern taxidermy, so far as birds are concerned, in the museum. The 
arrangement of the exceedingly profuse plumage is perfect; the mark- 
edly oblique tilting of the spread tail, a feature that it is difficult to 
appreciate in the plate, is most truthfully rendered. This bird's head 
was prepared after the usual methods, but I understand it is contem- 
plated to model it in wax, like the one just described above. When 
this is done I believe the National Museum will possess the finest 
specimen of a mounted wild turkey in existence. 

( )wls have not only given a great many artists infinite trouble to 
correctly portray, but they have likewise been placed upon the black 
list of a perfect host of taxidermists. Literature illumed by plates of 
birds goes to show that many an ornithologist who could draw and 
paint nearly every other kind of bird failed when owls were essayed. 
So, too, there are taxidermists who can mount most all birds correctly, 
who fail to a large extent when they take any of the Striges in hand. 
Wilson, the American ornithologist, used to complain bitterly of his in- 
ability to figure any of these birds exactly to his liking, and even the 
master, Audubon, shows a little weakness sometimes in such directions. 
Now, in my first attempts at the photography of birds, owls were the 
subjects, and one might think, inasmuch as they quietly roost and 
doze nearly all day, that is, the strictly nocturnal species, they would 
be easy subjects, but this is by no means always the case. A number 
of years ago, in New Mexico, I frequently tried specimens of Aiken's 
Screech owl (Megascops asio aikeni), but the results obtained were never 
entirely satisfactory to me. I have kept many kinds of American 
owls alive in my lifetime, and these screech owls have a habit, com- 
mon to some other species during their dozing hours during the day, 
of drawing themselves up in an erect attitude, with all the feathers 
compressed against the body, and with the plumicorns erected to their 
fullest extent. But when we come to try and photograph one in such 
a desirable attitude, we must, to get him anything like life size, get 
the camera within a very few inches of his owlship, and this almost 
invariably alarms him, and he will flatten out his plumicorns, puff him- 
self up, and then, after a second's idiotic stare, fly to some other part of 
the room. Photographing them at a longer distance makes the figure 
of him too small. 

I was once a whole day here at Takoma endeavoring to secure a pho- 
tograph of oneof our Common Sereeeh owls (M egascops asio) in my room — 
and then failed. He would jump up on top of my camera, emit a loud, 
rolling whistling note of disapproval of the procedure, dash off and 
finally nearly brain himself by bumping into the mirror of my wardrobe. 
I'd hypnotize him, stand him on the perch, and disappear for half an 
hour, and on my return he would be standing up as straight as a rocket 
in just the position I wanted him, but all my efforts to sneak up to the 
camera and remove the cap and make the necessary exposure failed 



Report of National Museum, 1892 Shufeldt. 



Plate LVI. 



' 





/Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LVI 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LVIII. 




Fig. 1. Pigeon. Black Outside Tumbler, cf. 
(Cat. No. 106100, U. S. N. M.) 




Fig. 2. Dove-cote Pigeon. (Act of preening.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. . 417 

utterly, for he would reenact the same performance I have just described. 
Finally I tied a pieceof strong pack thread to his leg and took him out 
of doors, took him in the broiling glare of the sun, and giving him a 
blotting-paper background and a pretty perch, i went at him again. 
After numerous attempts I secured the fairly good result shown in 
Plate lxx. When obtained he was staring his eyes out at a chicken that 
was making a disturbance not far away, and with a pin-hole diaphragm 
in, I gave him an exposure of at least ten seconds, during which time 
he never moved. His right foot exhibited an old dislocation, and its 
twisted position is evident in his picture. I am indebted to Master 
Richard Lay, of Takoma, D. 0., for the loan of this bird, for which and 
for his trouble in capturing it for me I desire here to express my grate- 
ful acknowledgments. It is my intention to experiment with the pho- 
tography of owls until I succeed in getting a tine series of them in all 
possible poses, with the hope that when duly published they will prove 
useful to both artist and taxidermist. On a former page I have invited 
attention to the picture of the owl shown in Plate lxxii. It is a plate 
made from a photograph of a drawing that was accurately copied from 
the original photograph of the bird, and is a good result and ought to 
prove useful both to the artist and to the taxidermist. This pluftiug up 
of the feathers in Bubo is common practice with them, and the act, to 
a moderate degree, has been well rendered in the exceptionally tine 
mount of one of the bubonine owls which I offer in Plate lxxi. It 
shows the bird in what might be called the first stage of observant 
defiance, or when something, evidently not of a pleasing nature, has 
attracted his attention and he is "getting on a ready" to repel it. The 
original has but to be seen to be admired, for it is remarkably well 
done. 

There is not much encouragement to the taxidermist if the ever pres- 
ent tact is before him that the work with which he has taken so much 
pains, and given so much of his labor, is at last to be but poorly exhib- 
ited; that is, his birds are to be huddled together in small and unsuit- 
able cases, and those in an illy-lighted hall. Unfortunately this is just 
what exists in the ornithological department now in the old Smithson- 
ian Institution building, where certainly 50 per cent of the room space 
is particularly not of the proper kind wherein to exhibit birds. This 
subject, though not altogether foreign to the present report, is in reality 
one that should be far more extensively dealt with than I will be ena- 
bled to do in this connection. 

Of all the departments of the art of taxidermy none can exceed, and 
I doubt any cau quite equal, the talent required to properly preserve 
mammals. This is due to the fact that in a vast majority of them the 
hair is sufficiently short to exhibit the anatomical contours of the body, 
head, and limbs, while in some the hair is practically entirely absent, 
and this very much increases the difficulty. The proper handling of 
the mouth and associated structures, of certain special organs, and of 
H. Mis, 1U, pt. 2—27 



41 S REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the feet and ears, etc., all conduces to this. And so, of a consequence, 
it especially devolves upon the taxidermist of the class of the vertebrata 
to provide himself with accurate drawings and with photographs of 
mammals, also with casts and figures of the skinned bodies and parts 
of bodies of his subjects. This is just what the sculptor is obliged to 
do in his art, and I remember very well, years ago, when I enjoyed the 
rare opportunity of watching Mr. John Rodgers at work in his studio. 
I have known him to carefully measure as many as thirty well-formed 
horses and take the average of those measurements sO as to get at the 
data to model a handsome animal for a statuette of Washington. Not 
content with this, he had also in his room a complete series of plaster 
casts of the superficial muscles and other structures demonstrating 
equine morphology. 

Further, all the principles I have referred to in the taxidermy of 
birds apply, almost without exception, to the class now to be consid- 
ered. Groups are of especial interest where mammals are the subjects, 
and the National Museum has some of the grandest of them now on 
exhibition as a part of her mammalian series known to any institution 
of the present time. Take, for example, the group of American opos- 
sums in the collection. This was mounted by Mr. Hornaday, who has 
described it in the following words in his work on taxidermy. He says : 

The case which incloses the entire group is 4 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 3 feet 
high. The frame of the case is as light as possible, and all four sides and the top 
are of glass. On the side of a sloping bank stands the base of a small gum tree, 
with the roots on the lower side exposed by the crumbling away of the bark. Of 
course the trunk rises to tbe top of the case, where it is cut squarely off. At the 
bottom of the sloping bank between two of the roots is an opening, which is recog- 
nized at once as the doorway to the opossum's home. The burrow winds upward 
between the roots of the tree, and finally turns off to the left into the bank, where, 
after running through a passageway of 2 or 3 feet in length, the nest itself is found. 
It is in a pocket-like excavation, and a circular section is cut out of the front of the 
bank so as to make an opening through which the nest can be seen. * 

The nest is lined with dead leaves, in which lies an opossum curled up and sound 
asleep. At the back of the case a sectional view of the bank is represented, and by 
means of an opening cut here and there the course of the burrow is plainly seen. 
In the foreground is an old mother opossum with several young ones riding on her 
back, clinging to her gray coat, while the head of another protrudes from her 
pouch. This represents the manner in which the opossum carries her young after 
they have reached a certain age. From a small branch hangs another opossum, sus- 
pended by its prehensile tail, sprawling in midair. This specimen is a female, and 
shows the size and location of the wonderful marsupial pouch, t Another individual 

* This I take to be the only real defect in this otherwise masterly piece of taxi-. 
dermic art. That cut, subcircular as it is, is constantly being mistaken for the real 
entrance made by the animal to its burrow, and what is the true opening between 
the roots of the tree often overlooked. The false cut should have been made on the 
end of the bank, where the side glass covers its supposed section, and we could have 
seen into the burrow through it. This can easily be remedied. 

tThis individual does not appear in the group as it is now exhibited, but forms a 
separate piece. 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LIX. 




Fig. 1. Gambel\s Partridge (C gambeli, d )■ 
Act of preening and elevating of plumage. (.From photograph of living bird.) 






.1*'" 




Fig. 2. Quail {Colinus, 9 ). 
Elevation of feathers prior to shaking herself. (Cat. No. 1120*3, U. S. X. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.~Shufeldt. 



Plate LX. 




Gambel's Partridge (Callipepla gambeli, cf). 
(From photograph of living bird.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate LXI. 




California Partridge (CaUipepla californica, d)- 
Reduced. (Cat. No. 107407, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXII. 







Report of National Museum, 1892 — Shufeldt. 



Plate LXIII. 




Report of National Museum, 1892,-Shufeldt 



PLATE LXIV. 




English Pheasant. 
On elevated station, surveying objects below. (Cat. No. 116855, U.S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum. 1892-Shufeldt. 



Plate LXV. 





Moor Cock (T. tetrix, d)- 
Reduced. (Cat. No. 126574, U. S. N. M.) 



RePOrt ° fNati0na,M — ,'8 92 ._Shu feld , 



Plate LXVl. 



.•*•''' 




Ki'ffei) Grouse (Tin , 
0° bough. Reuueed ,Z ' Z ^ 

(Cat, No. ST09T, V. a. N.M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXVII. 




Fig. 1. Dusky Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus). 
Reduced. (Cat. No. 112682, U. S. N. M.) 




Fig. 2. Richardson's Grouse (Dendragapus canadensis riehardsoni). 
Reduced. (Cat. No. 126345, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXVIII. 




Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo). 
Reduced. (Cat. No. 1 17389, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXIX. 




-o**, v. 




, ,Jfi '/ f/.y] ) 



Oi c 



-- o 



Q =3 

3 o 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 419 

is climbing up the trunk of the tree. A fourth specimen, which has been disturbed 
by another, is pausing to protest with widely opened mouth, while in the act <>l 
creeping- into the mouth of the burrow . 

Please notice the number of facts that air taught by this simple little group, It- 
shows that the opossum is a marsupial, and the female carries her young in a pouch 
in her own body; that when the yonnt;' reach a certain age they ride upon the 
mother's back, clinging to her fur; that the animal is arboreal inhabit and has ;i 
prehensile tail, by which it is capable of suspending itself; that it burrows in hanks 
in dry situations, and sleeps curled up like a hall in a bed of dry leaves. It also 
shows the full size of the adult, the young of the previous year, and the recent 
brood. But for an unfortunate accident, which has yet to be repaired, it would 
also show the number born at one birth. Of course in this group the grass and moss 
are properly represented, and there are artificial leaves on the tree branches which 
enter the group (pp. 240, 241). 

Very truly Mr. Hornaday further remarks in the succeeding para- 
graph: 

Groups of this class can easily be made to show the ordinary nesting and breeding 
habits of the animals represented. Now it happens that animals of some species 
make a variety of nests, according to circumstances or caprice. In 1889 we prepared 
a group in three sectious, each of which shows one of the habits of the gray squirrel 
in nesting. Each is composed of au actual nest, and in the identical tree in which 
it Avas built by Bunny himself. One represents a nest in a hollow beech tree, iu 
which a pair of gray squirrels bred for years. Another is what might he called a 
summer nest, made of cedar bark, iu the top of a cedar tree. The third section 
represents an outside nest of green oak leaves, placed on a branch of an oak tree. 
These three groups are exhibited in one case, but while each is separated from the 
others by a plate of heavy tinted glass, it is made apparent that they all illustrate 
the habits of the same animal. The specimens composing the three groups were all 
collected within a radius of 10 miles of the city of Washington. Besides teaching 
what the nesting habits of the gray squirrel are, it also impresses upon the observer 
the very important fact that the habits of different individuals of a given species 
are capable of wide variation.* They show how dangerous it is for a student or 
scientific investigator to generalize too freely from one or two facts, aud that it is 
dangerous for anyone to say what an animal will not do (p. 242). 

Another scientifically mounted marsupial in the collection is seen in 
the single specimen of the great Bock Kangaroo (Macropus robustus) 
(Plate lxxtv). This piece of work was done by Mr. Jenness Richardson, 
then holding the position of taxidermist of the American Museum of Nat- 
ural Historyof New York City, N. Y., where he produced some avian and 
mammalian groups quite worthy of his distinguished instructor, the 
artist from whom I have just been quoting. This large and thoroughly 
life-like specimen, place din an attitude so natural to it, and with every 
structural detail so perfectly preserved, is decidedly the best kangaroo 
in the museum, and being so good, it has the effect of still further 
depreciating- the specimens of bad taxidermy of animals of the same 



And what is quite as important, the species, as it occupies a very limited geo- 
graphical area. Had the place where these squirrels were collected been in an 
unknown locality, and recently explored, one naturalist might have come away 
with specimens and one set of notes on breeding habits, and another, and a third, 
come away with different accounts, none of the three of which would have agreed 
in this particular. 



420 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

family kept in its proximity in the mammal hall. Some of these are so 
bad that they have been ordered into the workshops for remodeling. 
Such a one is shown in Plate lxxv, and it is a. very good example of 
how kangaroos ought not to be mounted. 

About as near perfect as mammalian groups can be made is another 
one in the collection seen in the armadilloes (Plate lxxyi). This has 
three animals preserved in it, all in different positions, while the sur- 
roundings, as plants, cacti, etc., are originals that have been collected in 
the section where these interesting animals are found. So far as its taxi- 
dermy is concerned, it may be said that the form of the armadillo is 
more or less fixed, yet it presents problems to the taxidermist which 
are quite as difficult to deal with as is the fitting the skin of a hairy 
mammal to its manakin. If I remember (for the group has at the 
] uesent writing gone on to the World's Fair at Chicago), some of the 
accessories in it, as the cacti, are casts, but their reproduction is so 
perfect, spines and all, that it is simply impossible to distinguish them 
from the plants as they occur in nature. Speaking of cacti and this 
group of armadilloes reminds me of a conversation that I had with 
Mr. William Palmer, who is now doing such admirable work in the 
taxidermy of mammalian groups at the Museum, in regard to the 
reproducing in some group a specimen of the giant cactus of our 
extreme southwestern territorial districts. It may be introduced with 
great effect in some one of a variety of ways, either in the mammal or 
the ornithological department, and it is to be hoped that that will be 
done some time in the near future. Mr. II. W. Henshaw once remarked 
to me that he found a species of our pigmy owls breeding in holes in 
the giant cactus, and a group embodying this idea would certainly be 
one of great value and interest. 

A group of mammals requiring an entirely different kind of handling 
from any we have thus far noticed is seen in the Cetaceans. Papier- 
mache is here the material to reproduce its various species in the most 
satisfactory manner, and a very fine example of this is seen in the cast of 
Prodelphituts plagiodon (Cope), shown in Plate lxxvi«. Here much 
depends upon the skill of the colorist, and the smooth surface of the 
material used offers a beautiful ground to him whereupon to reproduce 
the exact natural tints of the animal as it is seen in nature. Mr. Shin- 
dler, of the Museum, is an adept at much of this, and examples of his 
skill are best shown in some of the fishes which were noticed upon a 
preceding page of this report. Incidentally it may be said that to the 
zoologist this species of Dolphin is a very interesting one, and its char- 
acteristics and relationships have been set forth by Mr. F. W. True in 
Bulletin ]So. 3G of the U. S. National Museum publications, entitled 
u Contributions to the Natural History of the Cetaceans, a Review of 
the Family Delphinida?" (p. 66). By all odds the papier-mache cast 
is the most effective way in which to reproduce the cetaceans for 
museum exhibitions. 

I desire now, at this point, to invite attention to one of the larger 



Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXX. 




Screech Owl (Megascops asio). 
Reduced. (From a photograph of a living specimen by the author.) 



Report of Nat.onal Museum, 1 892,-Shufeldt 



PLATE LXXI. 




Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginiarms). 
Greatly reduced. (Cat. No. 119367, U. S. N. M.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXII. 




Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginiawus). 
Reduced. (Reproduction of a drawing from a photograph of a living specimen.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXIII. 




Baltimore Oriole (Icterus galbula, $). 
Somewhat reduced. (Cat. No. 103212, U. S. N. M.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 421 

groups of mammals on exhibition at the Museum, and I will select that 
magnificent piece of fcaxidermic work seen in the moose group. A 
number of these massive cervidine animals have actually been mounted 
with the most perfect surroundings of their natural habitat in one great 
interesting collection, all under a single glass case. They are, probably 
without exception, altogether the finest series of mounted moose in this 
or any other country. 

The act of the young buck riding down a sapling has been questioned 
by some, but I believe that the practice of the animal to accomplish that 
feat in order to reach the delicate foliage of the tree can be well sub- 
stantiated. 

Hornaday has said of this piece in his Taxidermy (pp. 246, 247) : 

The setting represents a section of the moose woods of upper Canada, in which 
the larger animals are hrowsing on the tender twigs of the white birch. The 
animals have come together at the edge of a hog, which is growing full of a 
gigantic species of grayish moss peculiar to that locality. The time represented is 
the middle of autumn. The few leaves that remain on the maple saplings have 
been painted with October's most gorgeous tints of crimson and yellow, mixed 
with green, and the leaves of the white birch have turned pale yellow. The ground 
is plentifully strewn with leaves of bright tints, through which the green moss of 
moist banks shows in patches here and there. 

Of the animals, the three largest — and huge beasts they are, truly — are feeding 
upon the birch twigs. A yearling calf is licking the head of a tiny brown-coated 
younger brother, while a two-year-old bull is in the act of "riding down" a stout 
birch sapling in order to get at the branches of its top, which would otherwise be- 
beyond his reach. 

Three of these fine specimens were collected by Col. Cecil Clay, of 
Washington, and by him presented to the Museum for this group, 
together with the trees, moss, and other accessories, which he collected 
with infinite labor and care in the moose woods. He also furnished us 
with field notes and critical advice throughout, which had much to do 
in making the group what it is — a monument to Col. Clay's skill and 
prowess as a sportsman, and to his deep interest in Alces malehis. It 
is to be sincerely hoped that other sportsmen will follow the colonel's 
admirable example, and aid the museums in which they are most inter- 
ested to secure some attractive groups. There can be no doubt what- 
ever as to theperfectness in which these animals are mounted and pre- 
served, and they are apparently in their external forms very true to 
nature. While we have the taxidermy of the Cervidre under consid- 
eration, however, it would appear to be as well to refer to one great 
common defect that we have frequently observed made by taxidermists 
in them, and that is the lack of care that is sometimes evident in the 
proper handling of the lacrymal depression in these animals, or in 
other words, the pit which occurs in so many of them just anterior to 
the distal canthus of the eye. I have seen plenty of deer heads which, 
from an artistic standpoint were otherwise very creditable pieces of 
work, but in which this fossa had been almost or quite obliterated. It 



422 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

is to the strict attention to stich anatomical details that very often the 
success and reputation of a taxidermist depends, and he can do no 
better than to see well to ir that no such haws creep into his perform- 
ances. 

This group of moose is about the only notable thing of the kind that 
the National Museum has for the Cervidse at present, but this does 
not mean to imply that a general poverty exists in so far as that fam- 
ily is concerned. There are a goodly number of individual pieces of 
deer, some of which, however, are deplorable looking objects, and 
fitting relics of those days when taxidermy had not readied to what it 
can do so well in these times. Among the better specimens we observe 
a fine piece in that representative of the antelope group known as 
Thomson's Gazelle (Gazella thomsonii), Plate lxxviii. It has been 
entered as No. 189G4 of the collection of the Museum, and has been 
recently described by Mr. True in his u An Annotated Catalogue of 
the Animals Collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Kilima-Njaro 
Region, East Africa." (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. v, xv, p. 473., PI. lxxvii, 
1802). The faults in the mounting of this specimen are of so trivial a 
nature that it is not worth my while to enumerate them here, and were 
all the deer and their kin preserved as well as this specimen is, it would 
be far more of a pleasure to the sensitive naturalist to gaze upon them, 
who is now pardonably often shocked upon viewing some of his favor- 
ites in the museum cases. 

But to return to the groups, we have now to notice perhaps one of 
the very finest accomplishments that the art of taxidermy has produced 
in this country. I refer to the case containing the several specimens 
of our now nearly extinct bison or American buffalo. This triumph 
in the preservation of mammals of ponderous proportions is almost 
entirely due to the consummate skill and perseverance of Hornaday, 
who has popularly described it in many places. This latter fact, taken 
in connection with the fine Plate (lxxix) I have been permitted to give 
of it, renders it obviously unnecessary for me to dwell upon the general 
appearance of this life-like herd of bovines. They are all true to the 
life, preserved by all the most efficient methods of modern taxidermy, 
and, what is not generally kuown by people who are, or have been, priv- 
ileged to see this case, that the very sod upon which these animals now 
stand was brought for the purpose all the way from Montana, being 
shipped direct from the buffalo ranges of that territory to Washington. 
This applies also to the sage-brush which is made to appear to be actu- 
ally growing therein; and the broom-sedge, and the cacti. The skulls 
and other bones of the buffalo lying about were gathered in the same 
place: indeed, as a whole, it is a strip of a Montana prairie of an old 
range of these animals, [ticked up piecemeal, and now again unfolded 
in the ease at the Museum just as it occurred in nature. Even the very 
buffalo tracks seen about the pool of water in the case Avere made by 
using a real buffalo's hoof for the stamp to make the impressions. No 



Report of National Museum, 1892 Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXIV. 




"'Report of National Museum, 1892,-Shufeldt. 



Plate Lxxv. 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXVI. 




Report of National Museum, 1892 -Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXVI 



(a). 




Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXVII. 




%* 



'■fr*^ ■-*-*■*»'!_'<*• :*'. 



J 



Flying Lemur, or Colugo (Galeopithecus volans). 
An example of bad taxidermy. (Cat. No. 3946, U. S. N. M.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 423 

art known to me has ever accomplished a grander feat than this, and 
it is as fully worthy of our unstinted admiration as is any form that has 
ever materialized beneath the chisel of an Angelo or a Hiram Powers. 
And were I to choose between being- the author of Paul Potter's bull 
and these buffalo, I should without a moment's hesitation decide in 
favor of the latter. 

They will be standing in as good order as they are at this writing, 
long after the former has faded away from off its canvas. 

Many hue groups of mammals were by the National Museum sent on 
to the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago to form a part of the 
Smithsonian exhibit. Most of these were as fine things of the kind as 
have ever been seen in this country, and the writer of this report en- 
joyed the unusual privilege of seeing many of these in the course of 
their mounting. This was accomplished by a corps of skillful work- 
men, including such men as Mr. Joseph Palmer, William Palmer, George 
Marshall, and others, the whole being under the direction of Mr. P. AY. 
True, curator of mammals. 

it would be quite out of the question to even enumerate, not to say 
describe, all of the - groups or single pieces of mammals that now enrich 
the collections of the U. S. National Museum. We can at the best put 
in a word here and there about the most notable of them and the good 
or bad points they offer us. Among those as yet unnoticed is the fine 
case eontaining'the three specimens of Ovibos moschatus, the musk oxen, 
and I have heard various criticisms in regard to the forms that were 
bestowed upon those animals by the taxidermist who preserved them. 
Never having seen the animal alive, I hardly feel competent to judge in 
the matter, but that the group is a most pleasing one there can be no 
question. They are represented standing upon barren rock which has 
recently been overlain by a light fall of snow. This last has been admi- 
rably rendered by a composition compounded of starch, the pulp of white 
blotting paper, and plaster-of-Paris — an invention of Mr. Joseph Pal- 
mer's that has produced a very realistic effect. 

Perhaps the best mounted specimen of a Musk Ox now extant is the 
one in the possession of E. V. Skinner, esq., of the Canadian Pacific 
Railroad Company, and valued at*$2,500. 

Mr. Frederic S. Webster published an account of this animal in 
Forest and Stream, of New York, in its issue of January 20, 1893, and 
gave a figure of the Ox. Through the kindness of Mr. Skinner for the 
waiving of copyright and loan of the electro of that figure we are 
enabled to reproduce it herein Plate lxxx. Mr. Webster's article in 
Forest and Stream was entitled " An Arctic Rover,' 1 and ran as fol- 
lows: 

The musk ox (Ovibos moschatus) is considered by naturalists one of tlie rarest of 
our North American mammalia. In aclinic of almost perpetual winter, within the 
Arctic Circle, this animal lives and thrives. In a land which has been so fascina- 
ting and so fatal to the many explorers who have sought to solve the mysteries of 



424 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

these desolate rucky ice-bound fields, in which no animal, it would seem, could 
exist, the hardy musk ox roams at will during the entire year. The ability to 
stand the rigors of such a climate is a striking feature of its interesting life history. 

The musk ox is at present found only in the most northern parts of North America, 
where it ranges in small bands on the barren grounds between the sixtieth parallel 
and the shores of the Arctic Sea. Its southern range is gradually contracting, and 
it is no longer met with west of the Mackenzie River. It is found through the 
Parry Islands and Grinnell Land to North Greenland, reaching on the west coast as 
far south as Mellvile Bay. It was met with by all the polar exploring expeditions, 
including the l)e Long, Hall, and Greely parties. Lieut. R. E. Peary in his late 
Greenland journey secured several specimens of various ages, and reports it com- 
paratively abundant. The German polar expedition of 1869-70 found it at Sabine 
Island on the east coast. In former times the musk ox roamed in other parts of the 
world. Its fossil remains, or those of an allied species, have been found in northern 
Siberia and the plains of Germany and France. It has also been found in the gravel 
beds in several parts of England, as Bromley, Bath, and Freshtield, and also in the 
brick earth of the Thames Valley at Crayford, Kent. 

In size the musk ox equals the smaller varieties of Scotch and Welsh cattle, but 
in structure and habits it is more like the sheep ; and the combination of character- 
istics is well expressed by its generic name, Ovibos. It is gregarious in habit, going 
in herds of 20 or 30 head, and sometimes 90 or 100 have been observed. The bands 
contain one or two full-grown bulls. Notwithstanding their short legs, they run 
with considerable speed. When frightened, they gather together like a flock of 
sheep, and follow a leader as sheep do an old ram. This habit makes the total 
extermination of a herd an easy task, when it is the desire of its destroyers to 
accomplish it. When thoroughly alarmed they easily ascend precipitous slopes, 
their curved, sharp-edged hoofs greatly aiding them in gaining a foothold. 

The name of musk ox is given on account of the musky odor exhaled by the ani- 
mal. The odor does not proceed from any special gland, as in the case of the musk 
deer and other animals which secrete a musky odor. The cause of this peculiar odor 
has not been satisfactorily explained. 

According to Sir John Richardson, " when the animal is fat its flesh is well tasted 
and resembles that of caribou, but has a coarser grain." According to other author- 
ities the flesh of the bulls is highly flavored, and both bulls and cows, when lean, 
smell strongly of musk. This odor does not seem to be confined to either sex, or to 
any particular season of the year. At times the flesh of some of the animals is said 
to be tender and very well flavored. 

The carcass of a good-sized male will weigh 300 to 350 pounds. In summer they 
accumulate considerable fat, and during winter use up this fatty tissue. The males 
are considerably larger than the females. The cows calve about June 1, giving 
birth to one young one. The animal is also known as musk buffalo and musk sheep, 
both very expressive names. 

The animal has a very prominent tendency to a hump. The dorsal processes of 
the vertebral column, as shown in the skeleton, indicate this. The dense, long, and 
somewhat stiff bunch of hair over the shoulders plainly proves that the animal pos- 
sesses a hump. All specimens which have been heretofore mounted do not show this 
feature of the animal. The head is large and broad. The horns in the old males 
are extremely broad at the base, meeting in the median line and covering the whole 
top of the head. They are directed, at first, slightly outward, and then suddenly 
downward by the side of the head, and then they turn upward with a graceful curve, 
and forward, ending in the same plane as the eye. The horns at the base are rough, 
but gradually grow smooth from the center to the tips, which are round, glossy, and 
black. At the base they are a dull white. The horns of the females are much 
smaller, and at their base the space between them is much broader in the middle of 
the forehead. The ears are small and are concealed in the hair. The space between 
the nostrils and the upper lip is covered with a short, close hair, as in goats and 



Rspori of National Museu 



m, 1892—Shufeldt 



Plate LXXVIIJ. 






'\J 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufe'dt 



Plate LXXIX. 




Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXX. 




Report of National Museum.. 1892.-Shufeldt. 



PLATE LXXXI. 




SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 425 

sheep, and has no trace of the hare "muffle" of oxen. The general color of the 
hair is a rich brown, shading into black. It is long, matted, and rather curly at the 
neck and shoulders. On the back and hips the hair is long and straight, on the sides 
of the body exceedingly long, bo hum ;,s to hang below the midille of the legs. In 
some specimens which we have measured the .ongest hairs have been 20 inches long. 
In the center of the back there is a patch of soiled brownish white, termed the 
saddle. 

There is a closely-matted short under wool, exceedingly soft and fine of texture, 
and so dense that it is impervious to snow and rain. Oh the chest the hair is long 
and straight, and hangs down gracefully like fringe. The tail is short and hidden 
in the long hair on the hips. On the legs the hair is short, stiff, and without any 
underwool. The hoofs are much curved and larger than those of the caribou, which 
they resemble in shape, and the eye of a skilled hunter would lie taxed to detect the 
difference between the tracks of the two species in the snow. The bones of the ani- 
mal are very dense; those of the legs have the weight and appearance of ivory. 

The food of the mnsk ox is similar to that of the caribou, and consists of grass at 
one season and lichen at another. The curved hoofs enable the animal to scrape away 
the deep snows which cover their scanty food. Their sense of smell is very acute. 
The illustration of the musk ox here given represents the character of the animal. 
The specimen from which it is taken is the largest in this country or Europe. The 
skin of this specimen was obtained by E. V. Skinner, esq., of the Canadian Pacific 
Railroad, and placed in the hands of Messrs. Sowdon and Webster, of 14 East Forty- 
second street, this city, who have prepared it, as faithfully represented by the plate. 
Through the kindness and by the permission of Mr. Skinner we have the pleasure 
of placing before our readers this handsome likeness. 

This specimen was sledded by natives oxer 1,400 miles near Fort Franklin, and was 
received here in fine condition. The order for it was given three years since and 
the specimen has been in transit most of this time. The few measurements may 
serve to impress the reader with the proportions of this particular specimen. The 
animal stands at the shoulder 4 feet 5 inches; the length from nose to stern is G feet 
7 inches; height at the rnmp, 3 feet 10 inches; length of head from base of sknll to 
end of nose, 24 inches; length of horn from median line, following the outside curve 
to tip, 24 inches; width of both horns at base, 12 inches; diameter of horns at base r 
9A inches; breadth of muzzle, 4| inches; circumference of muzzle, 14 inches; cir- 
cumference of hoof of front leg, 17 inches; circumference of hoof of hind leg, l'S 
inches. 

There are but four other mounted specimens of the musk ox in this country. One 
is at Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass., and three compose a group at the U. S. 
National Museum, Washington, D. C. < )f these, one is a male, one a female, and one 
a two-year-old, none of them superior specimens. 

Anion g the mounted species of the JEJquidce at the National Museum none 
can, in my estimation, in anyway approach the specimen of Burchell's 
zebra (Plate lxxxi). The animal lias been given an attitude indicative 
of moderate movement, with the evident idea in its mind of making' an 
attack or standing at bay, in which he will use his teeth to bite — a 
habit so familiar to us in some cases of vicious horses. The short mane 
is semierect, the ears are thrown back, the eye looks the owner's intent r 
while the quivering and nearly rigid lips drawn apart show the glisten- 
ing upper " nippers " and the crowns of the lower ones; the nostrils are 
somewhat closed by the elevation of the superior lip; finally, the entire 
rendering of the whole animal is most perfect in all particulars. I am 
enabled to present herewith the left lateral view of the head of this 
zebra, so its excellence may be the better appreciated. 



426 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

But the climax of the taxidermist's ambition is reached when lie can 
mount a hairless mammal, large or small, that is at once a perfect 
reproduction of the original, and will keep indefinitely uninjured by 
the ordinary ravages of time and pests. Of this kind of work the 
Museum has several notable examples, and none of these can exceed in 
beauty of design, and consummate skill and knowledge in workmanship 
thenowfamous African elephant "Mungo" (Plate lxxxii). Chief among 
the factors of success in mounting an animal of this kind is the fact 
that the skin is laid over a thick coat of clay, which latter overspreads 
the manikin. Through this ingenious device, after the skin is on and 
the taxidermist essays to model the form to copy the live animal in 
every particular, it is seen that all the depressions, wrinkles, lines, and 
pits, and protuberances can be exactly reproduced by the proper sim- 
ple instruments by working them on the skin through the agency of 
the yielding clay beneath it. 1 have compared most critically this 
specimen "Mungo" with photographs of living elephants in my collec-. 
tiou, and find that in each and every particular it is anatomically cor- 
rect, and that the attitude is most perfect. Another piece which shows 
equally well the master hand is the specimen of the hairless Mexican 
terrier (Plate xc). This dog had no hair at all apparently, and his 
skin was as thin as ordinary writing paper, but through the aid of a 
plaster cast of his entire body as a model and the use of the clay- 
covered manikin, a most remarkably line thing has been produced. 
This specimen has also been delicately tinted where it became necessary, 
and as now preserved will last without change for an indefinite length 
of years. Hornaday mounted both " Mungo 1 ' and this terrier. The first 
received the silver specialty medal awarded " for the best piece in entire 
exhibition" at the New York exhibition of the Society of American 
Taxidermists in 1883, which prize was nearly wrested from it by the 
judges and given to the terrier, which had been entered in competition 
against it. This process of using clay has also been employed by its 
introducer in mounting the bison, polar bear, Burchelfs zebra, the 
tiger, and the puma, figures of each of which illustrate this naper and 
are the work of the same illustrious taxidermist. 

Speaking of comparing "Mungo" with photographs of living ele- 
phants brings up the use of the camera again as applied to mammals. 
Now, 1 entirely dissent from Mr. Hornaday's opinion as to the necessity 
of taking photographs of all the mammals we can. 1 believe in photo- 
graphing them in all positions, every possible species, wild and domes- 
ticated, living and dead. In his Taxidermy (pp. 21, 22) he remarks: 

To the taxidermist and collector, photographs of dead animals are of very little 
value, unless it be a large picture of the head of a, large specimen, such as a 
moose, hut that photographs of live animals, taken "broadside on,'' as the sailors 
say. arc extremely valuable aids in mounting; but these you get only in the zoolog- 
ical gardens. I never took a camera into the field with me, and have always been 
glad of it, for it would not have repaid the trouble it would have involved. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXII. 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXIII. 




j< 






•7 



% 



<+ S^Skr' 



Repoit of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 

'--,»*" I I 



Plate LXXXIV. 




Jack Rabbit (Lepus callotis callotis, J). 
(From a photograph by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt.) 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 427 

When a person \* rites in such a strain as this I am convinced he has 
not made himself master of the instrument, and knows but very little 
about its capabilities. Why, even my very earliest attempts in this 
line, in the photography of living- and dead mammals in the field, I still 
claim are of some use, while others of them are highly suggestive. Take 
the Cynomys or Prairie dog, shown in Plate lxxxiii, Figs. 1 and 2. I 
made that photograph while the animal stood at the very entrance of his 
burrow. It was in New Mexico. The relative position of the eye, the 
ear, and the nose are well shown in Fig. 1, while the prominent cheeks 
are clearly defined in Fig. 2. Whoever it was that mounted the group 
of these animals at the National Museum I do not now just remember. It 
may have been Mr. Hornaday, but whoever it was he did not appreci- 
ate this prominence of the cheeks in Cynomys, and I must believe that 
such a figure as here given would have enlightened him on the subject. 

There is another structure that I have noticed that is rarely well 
preserved, and that is the ears of large hares. These appendages, as 
1 have studied them in most museum specimens of Lepus, always to me 
appear to be more or less shrunken. This especially applies to the ears 
of the American Jackass Rabbits (Plate lxxxiv), and the proper preser- 
vation of the form, size, and coloration of these is, of course, very impor- 
tant. All these particulars are well shown in the plate, although it is 
only a dead animal, it being a photograph I made of one of those hares 
immediately after I shot it. Another example of the kind is seen in my 
photograph of a dead Badger ( Plate lxxxyiii). The attitude here shown 
corresponds exactly with one which, among others, it assumes while in 
the act of burrowing, and many a person whom I have shown this 
picture has been deceived by it to the extent of mistaking it for a live 
specimen. It gives a first-rate idea of the form of the badger's head, 
position of ears, etc. Had a full series of even such photographs as 
these been available, or had it been possible for the explorers in foreign 
climes to have taken with them one of the many highly convenient forms 
of cameras now manufactured, and used it intelligently, I am quite 
confident that, had the older taxidermists the ability to avail themselves 
of the pictures obtained in this way, we should not have had so many 
abominable things to look at in the cases of our museums, and be told 
on the labels that this represented that animal, and that this, and so 
on. Things, for example, like the flying lemur, shown in Plate lxxvii. 
Horrid is not the name for such work as it represents, and it is a pity 
that that taxidermist did not have a good photograph of the head of a 
Galeopithecus, living or dead, when he started in on the specimen. 
Apart from the head, we see feet that seize nothing, shriveled ears, 
protruding wires, distorted form — and those 1 eyes! 

There is still another class of cases wherein the camera can be made 
to do great service, and this is where we meet with an animal given to 
building for its home a large and cumbersome nest, such as is seen in 
the N~eotoma group in the collection. With the enterprise now exhibited 



428 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

upon the part of museum collectors and taxidermists, the feat of trans- 
porting such a structure from the wilds of the Southwest to the mammal 
hall of the National Museum would be considered perfectly feasible. 
But before disturbing- such a nest in any way where the rats had orig- 
inally built it, it would most assuredly be the thing to do to make a 
good photograph of it, so that, in the event of having to restore or 
arrange parts of it after its transportation and arrival, we would have 
the photograph as a model, and the best that could be procured. In- 
deed, with the material at hand the entire nest could be again rebuilt 
by it, as for the matter of that. 

From the standpoint of the introduction of groups of mammals, 
illustrating habits, etc., such a nest as this presents the problem of 
devoting a large piece of valuable space to a very small animal. But 
we contend here, most emphatically, that the lesson it teaches is fully 
worthy of it, and these are the very kinds of objects that we should 
devote our very best pains to introduce, with a strict fidelity to nature, 
into our zoological museums. I would go farther; I would go to the 
extent of giving many square feet of museum space, and faithfully 
illustrate in the very best possible manner, a group of beavers and the 
dam they build. These animals are now being rapidly exterminated 
in our country, and ere they are gone entirely it is surely our bounden 
duty to entertain such an idea with the view of carrying it out. Typ- 
ical beaver dams are quite as scarce as the builders of them, but one 
should be sought at an early date, photographed from various poiuts 
of view, and, cost what it may, reproduced at the National Museum. 

Few, at the best, realize how rapidly many of our mammals in this 
country are being forever' swept away. We are fortunate at the 
National Museum in having preserved, in the very best manner, a num- 
ber of them, but there yet remain a great many more demanding our 
attention, and, in some cases, our immediate attention. It is the Gov- 
ernment's first duty to see to this matter, and Government aid should 
not be withheld for a moment where such enterprises are on foot, but 
should, on the contrary, not only propose them, but encourage the under- 
taking in every possible way. I have always entertained the idea that 
the education of the people of any country is one of the best, if not 
the best investment that that country can make, and surely none of 
us will question but what zoological and other museums are great 
educators. We stand very much in need of a zoological museum in 
connection with our other Government museums, one large building 
devoted exclusively to everything in the animal series below man. 
We have no such building at present. We have been very generous 
to ourselves in these matters on a number of occasions in the past, but 
the income from it has well repaid us each time, and the benefit there- 
from as a whole is simply incalculable. The time is near at hand again 
when we should think of repeating one of those wise acts, one of those 
well-put investments. 



Report of National Museum, 1892. — Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXV. 




SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 429 

There is another, and now exceedingly rare animal, it being on the 
very verge of extinction, which our museum is exceptionably fortunate 
in obtaining a specimen, before the destructive and thoughtless hand of 

man eliminated it entirely. I refer to the walrus. This animal's status 
is now pretty well known to the reading public, through the publications 
of the National Museum, those of Mr. H. W. Elliot, of William Palmer, 
and the daily press incidentally to the general question of the seal-fish- 
ery problem. The Museum walrus was mounted in the light of all the 
improvements and skill modern taxidermy could bring to bear upon 
the undertaking, and the success was complete. It constituted when 
finished one of the graudest subjects the Smithsonian sent on to the 
Government exhibit at the Columbian Exposition, where at the pres- 
ent writing it is. On Plates lxxxvi, Figs. 1 and 2, and lxxxvii I am 
permitted to give a series of figures from photographs taken at various 
times during the preservation of this colossal mammal. These so 
clearly represent what I intend they should that special explanation of 
any one of them becomes unnecessary. The series are destined to be 
illustrations of the very highest interest for ages to come, and ere 
another century rolls by, people will regard them with wonder, and 
that men actually preserved such a brute, in the flesh, will read far 
more like fiction than a reality. At a far remote period it will be 
classed with such ideal scenes as prehistoric man engaged in slaying a 
mammoth or rudely carving upon the tusks of one. 

Some of the seals and other marine mammals in the Museum are very 
fine in every particular, while, on the other hand, some of them sadly 
need reduplicating, as they, too, are soon to be exterminated. This 
applies also to the bears, of which there are some very handsome repre- 
sentatives, but none more so than the Polar Bear (Plate lxxxv), of 
which there is not a finer mounted specimen in the world. He is rep- 
resented as walking up an ice floe at a slight incline, and from the free 
upper margins of which hang many icicles. Ice is often wonderfully 
well counterfeited by using a moderate coat of paraffin over sheet glass, 
or even wood, and we gain the proper effect through its transparency. 
The icicles are of glass, of course, and made especially for the purpose, 
while the tout ensemble of the effect is perfect. 

When another commodious zoological building is added to the pres- 
ent group of Government institutions, I am of the opinion that the 
correct idea is to not only show groups of animals composed of one 
species, but to a certain extent faunal groups, wherein can be worked 
with the greatest advantage many other natural productions of the 
country where the animals occur, as plants, topography, etc. ISTow 
these large groups, if arranged round the wall space, with a varying 
depth of 5 to 25 feet, may in some cases be made to advantageously 
merge into each other — that is, to a certain extent, show regional groups 
and their mergences. For instance, one large case might be con- 



430 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

structed to represent an arctic realm, carried down in the foreground 
and to one side to the seashore, and upon another rocks, glacial ice, 
sheet ice, and what not, as representing the higher land. Then the 
foreground should be merged with the background by a skillful artist, 
so as to cany with it great depth, and offer the opportunity to show 
peculiarities of a sky perhaps, and the effect of distance, as well as to 
add other accessories, as a distant shore covered with seals, or, higher 
np, a herd of caribou. Such a case could be made to contain an entire 
marine mammalian fauna, and be made far more instructive and impos- 
ing than single specimens an comfortably huddled or scattered through 
the various cases, absolutely ignoring any zoological arrangement. 

We have the power and the understanding now to carry out such 
bold designs, and it is high time that we were about it. The whole 
tendency is in just such directions, and all it requires is skillful hand- 
ling. What an object lesson or lessons such groups would be, and this 
broad and deep country of oars, including every kind of a fauna and 
flora from. Alaska to Florida, thriving in every variety of climate, 
includes the very scries of zones, realms, and areas that should by just 
such means be illustrated, it would represent ideas and groups of 
ideas, and ideas are what we want. It would powerfully illustrate 
literature as the biologist now makes it for us, and in an orderly man- 
ner show our people what we mean by faunal areas, Arctic realms, 
geographical ranges, variations of animals under varying conditions of 
altitude, desert areas, and shore lines. Museums, among other things, 
are made to educate the people of a nation; but a favored few of the 
people can study such things in nature. So it is the business of the 
museum to bring whole living sections of nature within its walls, where 
it can be studied and where books and labels are displayed in abun- 
dance to help show how it ought to be studied. 

When we can make such animals and groups of animals as those 
shown in Plates lxxxix. or lxxix, or lxxxi, there can be no question in 
the world but what the more extensive groups can be combined with 
more telling effect. But to be successful in the highest sense of the 
word there must be no cheap designers, cheap modelers, cheap artists, 
or cheap anything employed; all must be of the very best that the 
United States affords — and we have it in both talent and material. 
Especially for the painted backgrounds should an artist of the very 
highest ability be employed, wit 1 a staff of others to assist in the intro- 
duction of distant animals, forests, or marine effects. If refinement, 
knowledge, science, and art are wholesomely combined in such efforts 
there is not one bit of danger of either producing a cheap museum 
effect, much less anything that savors of the scenery of the theatrical 
stage. In one sense it would be far more economical, in the same pro- 
portion that it is far more so to make one large case of animals than it 
is to build up six or eight small ones. 

Then the space throughout the Museum halls, apart from the regional 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXVI 




Fig. 1. Manikin fok a Walrus 
(Partly completed. ) 




Fig. 2. Walrus (Odobainus obesus, r/). 
Nearly completed. (Cat. No. 19245, U. S. N. M.) 



■Report of National Museum, 1 892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXVIL 




SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 431 

groups occupying the walls, could be advantageously devoted to cases 
of the smaller species groups, single pieces, and other specimens. 

Coming to the Felidce in the collection of the Museum we hnd it repre- 
sented by specimens similar to those in the other groups, in other words 
by the good, by the bad, and by the indifferent, and these are the most 
undoubted examples of every genus of this provisional classification. 
We see a specimen of the last-mentioned kind in the lynx shown in 
Plate xc, wherein faults about the mouth, slightly wrinkled ears, and 
some minor points debar it from the category of the best specimens of 
taxidermy. While on the other hand the grand specimen of a tiger, 
the head and fore part of which is given in Plate xci, has not its peer for 
that species in any public museum in the United States. The Puma 
is also another admirable preserved specimen of this group. 

Of this group Hornaday has said that the "large Felidcv (tiger, lion, 
leopard, etc.) are the finest subjects for the taxidermist that the whole 
animal kingdom can produce. They offer the finest opportunities 
for the development of muscular anatomy, and the expression of the 
various higher passions." (Taxidermy, p. 171.) This may be very true, 
but in my opinion the pieces left by this talented artist to commemorate 
his name after his connection with the Museum was severed, and the 
ones which will most surely pass his name down into history as a most 
masterly taxidermist of his time, are the group of American bison, and 
"Mungo" the African elephant, though bis Bengal tiger, to gain a sim- 
ilar place, be stepping in the very footprints of the latter as he leaves 
them. 

One who has not seen the feat performed in one of our larger museums 
can have but little conception of the skill required in handling the 
facial expression and all the structures that enter into the mouth parts. 
The skinning of a tiger's tongue and preserving it so as to make that 
organ resemble the original as it appeared in the living subject; the 
cleaning of the teeth ; the blending of the black part of the lips with 
the delicate pink gums inside; to make the animal grin and not smile, 
and to lend to the eyes the flash of anger, are all accomplishments that 
demand of the artist his best judgment, knowledge, skill, and, what is 
more, his infinite patience. 

I agree with him when he says: 

Some of the old-fashioned taxidermists have the habit of smearing a lot of nasty 
lampblack in the eyes of every mounted mammal [and a variety of birds, too], for 
what purpose no one knows, but possibly in imitation of actresses, some of whom 
have the same unaccountable trick, and a hideous one in its results in both cases. 
There is only one point in its favor: it is the easiest way in the world to give an 
animal a black eye. (Ibid., pp. 177, 178.) 

Many groups of monkeys and the higher apes now adorn the cases 
in the mammal department of the IT. S. National Museum. Some of 
these are among the best groups of the kind in the hands of the insti- 
tution. Among them is the now famous group of Orangutans, too 



432 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

well known to require description in this place; and there are others of 
equal beauty and interest. 

Of recent years a great deal of well-directed energy and skill has 
been brought to bear to reproduce various races of men, and these 
attired in their native costumes and represented in the pursuit of 
various employments. They are. as a rule, the size of life, and so real 
in the majority of instances as to excite the wonder and admiration of 
all who chance to behold them for the first time. But this subject has 
been found too extensive to handle in the present connection, and it 
will no doubt furnish the material for another writer at some time iu 
the near future. If ever the Museum indulge in the mounting of such 
groups, the propriety of which seems to be questionable, as Jules Ver- 
reaux's "Arab courier attacked by lions," or John Wallace's famous 
'•Horseman attacked by tigers," and similar efforts, why this would 
appear to be the more proper place for them, rather than any depart- 
ment of zoology. If not showing too much or great activity, or other- 
wise not too sensational, some such compositions arc quite instructive, 
and to the public always interesting. 

So far as I am aware at present, the Museum has never undertaken 
to preserve man, by any other process than the ones now employed, of 
clothed manikins, the laces and heads being obtained by casts or other 
means. That the direct preservation of man's body intact has been 
elsewhere attempted, however, there can be no doubt, and with some 
measure of success. On page 14 of Oapt. Brown's little work on 
taxidermy, I read : 

Numerous have been the attempts of mankind to preserve the skin of their fellow - 
creatures. The very hest of these have been most disgusting deformities, and so 
totally unlike the " human form divine " that none of them have found a place iu 
collections, with the exception of some parts of man. which form part of the Euro- 
pean anatomical collections. In the museum of the Jardiu dn Roi, at Paris, there is 
one of the best things of this kicd which we have seen, a human head injected and pre- 
served in spirits of turpentine. This curiouspreparationwas the production of Riutch, 
a Dutch physician, highly celebrated for his pathological skill. The precise manner 
this interesting preparation was originally preserved is not known. However, it 
retains to the present day, all the original and natural colors. In winter, the cold 
affects the spirit so much, in which it is preserved, that the head can not be distin- 
guished, until the return id' warm weather, which dispels its cloudy appearance. The 
New Zealanders have a method of drying and preserving the heads of their chiefs, 
with the flesh entire. Many of these arc to be found in museums; but they are of 
little use, and by no means calculated to produce pleasurable seusatious. 

We may safely predict that no method will ever be discovered, by which man can 
be preserved so as to be fit for placing in a museum. (1870.) 

Could Capt. Brown but see the host of thoroughly lifelike Indians, 
Africans, Japanese. Sauioau, Aino, Esquimau, and Caucasian figures, 
of all ages, and both sexes, that Prof. O. T. Mason now marshals in his 
department, he could have but one opinion about it, and that is that 
the necessity therefor had gone by. 

As I closed upon a former page of this paper what I had to say 
about the taxidermy of birds, I passed a few brief remarks upon the 



Report of National Museum, 1892 Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXVIII. 



"'•IMS 




M S 
o 

z r 




Report of National Museum, 1892.- Shufeldt. 



Plate LXXXIX. 




s 





Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XC. 




Fig. 1. Hairless Mexican Terrier. 
(Cat. No. 116718, U. S. N. M.) 




Fig. 2. Lynx {Lynx rufus). 



Report of National Museum, 1892,-Shufeldt. 



Plate XCI, 





SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FUR MUSEUMS. 433 

hall in which their cases w"ere exhibited. In this particular the mam- 
mal department is far better off. It being in the National Museum 

building proper, a comparatively more modern structure, it is both 
well lighted and well ventilated. The casings are of the most recent 
improved kinds, and set off their subjects very satisfactorily. An 
object of great interest, and suspended from the roof, is the vertical 
mid-section of a hollow papier mache whale, into which has been 
placed a skeleton of the same species in situ. It renders a fine idea of 
the position of the osseous framework of this huge marine mammal. 

CONCLUSIONS. 

In writing out the account of my observations and in giving my opin- 
ions for this report on the present status of the art of taxidermy, and 
what may be hoped for it in the future, I have been very largely influ- 
enced by what I have seen and been enabled to study in the collections 
of the U. S. National Museum and Smithsonian Institution at Wash- 
ington, D. 0. When my labors were first undertaken it was the inten- 
tion to incorporate herein descriptions of methods and work, with the 
appropriate plates illustrating it, of many other museums, both here 
and in Europe. In some few instances this has been accomplished, while 
from one reason or another it has failed in others. Often institutions 
of the kind we speak are more or less sensitive on the point of submit- 
ting their work for an impartial criticism, and so withheld it: while in 
others such a very large proportion of the work Avas so far below the 
standard of what taxidermy ought to be in these days, that for very 
obvious reasons it has been placed aside without notice. Looking 
broadly over the field and taking the subject as a whole, I am of the 
opinion that there is, even in many of our first-class museums, very 
wide room for improvement in such matters. My aim has been through 
out this entile paper to accord full praise where it appeared to be justly 
merited, and in those cases where the work was below what it ought 
to be I have endeavored to keep myself above mere fault-finding by 
simply indicating the only too apparent errors. We are to be congrat- 
ulated that the art is making such very satisfactory progress among 
Us, and that at the present writing, in our most advanced institutions, 
Government and otherwise, there is to be found so much to be praised 
and recommeuded and so little to be condemned. 

Much might be said here on the subject of suitable museums for the 
exhibition of scientific collections of preserved animals, but this phase 
of the question will be, as has been said, dealt with in another place. 
Be it enough to say here in passing that our Government museums 
are as yet very faulty in this particular and far behind some of the 
better institutions in, for example, England and elsewhere. The old 
ornithological hall in the Smithsonian building is already crowded to 
overflowing, and is at the best but illy suited for the purpose, a large 
H. Mis. 1U. pt. L> 28 



434 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

proportion of the recesses being- so very dark that tlie specimens can 
not be properly seen, much less studied. The National Museum build- 
ing is better fitted for the exhibition of ethnological and other material 
than it is for zoological. We stand in need, very much in need, of 
a scientifically constructed zoological museum, for, in the first place, 
to properly exhibit the superb collections that have within compara- 
tively recent times grown up here, and, second, to relieve the buildings 
already in use. As the British Museum threw off its South Kensington 
Department of Natural History, so has. and from like causes, the time 
come for us to make a similar step. 

1 have called attention to the fact that taxidermists should be thor- 
oughly educated men, fully trained in all the technique of their art in 
its broadest sense, as pointed out in the body of the paper; that with 
respect to the art itself, the main factors of success to be observed are 
the using of every means at our command to reproduce nature in 
every particular, not only in the case of the specimens themselves, but 
in the accessories used in connection with them; that they should be so 
prepared as to resist in every way the ravages of time, or the attacks 
of pests; that they should, in addition, not only show the appearance 
of the animal itself, but aim to give a chapter in its life history, drawing 
therefor either upon its habits or its habitat; that everything that in 
any way whatever partaking of the grotesque or fanciful or extravagant 
innovations should be promptly and forever discountenanced. 

My studies have led me to believe that the art of taxidermy has had 
a singular evolutionary growth peculiarly its own, the various phases 
of which have, in one place or another, been pointed out in the forego- 
ing pages, and that of recent years the strong tendency in our leading 
museums has been to group animals, and for a variety of purposes. I 
am convinced that in the future museums will carry this idea still fur- 
ther, and that these groups will be so combined as not only to exhibit 
single species, showing some of their habits and surrounding in their 
natural haunts, but also to a very large extent to show faimal regions, 
and the animal and plant life of various geographical areas. When thus 
presented in the museums of large cities, and showing in that way the 
distribution of the animal and plant life of the region wherein the par- 
ticular city may be situated, or for the country at large in our Govern- 
ment museums, the ever-present lesson they will present for study to 
the thousands of men, women, and children who may see such an exhi- 
bition during the course of a year will in its practicable value be sim- 
ply beyond all calculation. By such arrangements the eye will be 
enabled to take in and the mind appreciate the aspect and the biologic 
forms of any particular region of the United States almost at a glance. 

For the sake of economy, both for the present and the future, we should 
employ only the very best materials in our work, and. what is quite as 
important, secure the services of only. the most skillful and advanced 
artists in the country. Not mere plodders for pay, but men thoroughly 



SCIENTIFIC TAXIDERMY FOR MUSEUMS. 435 

in love with their work and possessing talents fully capable of improve- 
ment and desirous of seizing upon each and every advance made in 
the art. To this end, whenever proper opportunity offers, facilities to 
in form themselves in all that directly relates to their work should be 
extended to them. 

In closing. I but acquit myself of a duty and a pleasure at once 
when I extend my thanks to Prof. G. Brown Goode, long in charge 
of the National Museum, not only for the advantages that have come 
to me in the way of studying the material for this paper but for the 
pleasure it has been for me to write it, and for the many courtesies I 
have received at his hands. 

To Mr. F. W. True I am especially indebted for the assistance he lias 
so freely given me upon every occasion. As the curator -in -charge of 
the Museum, it has lain within his power to further my labors in numer- 
ous ways, and this throughout has been done with such marked kind- 
ness, promptitude, and cheerfulness that I find it difficult for me to ex- 
press to him the gratitude I experience for it and so thoroughly feel. 

My own work will have been amply repaid if it result in the further 
encouragement and stimulation of the progress of the art of taxidermy, 
now so firmly placed on foot in so many quarters of the civilized world. 



APPENDIX. 



After the manuscript of this paper had been completed, and had 
been transmitted to the Museum for publication, there were received 
for incorporation in it, through the kindness of Dr. J. A. Allen, of the 
American Museum of Natural History, New York City, five photo- 
graphs for plates. These photographs represent groups in the collec- 
tions of the American Museum of Natural History, in which institu- 
tion Dr. Allen has charge of the departments of ornithology and mam- 
malogy. They came too late to be inserted in the body of this paper, 
but owing to their general excellence and interest, and to the great 
courtesy of their sender in submitting them, as well as to the trouble 
which he had taken to write out their histories, it Mas decided to have 
them engraved and placed together at the end of the paper. The first 
of these added plates (Plate xcn) represents a group of Pied Ducks 
(Camptolaimus labradorim) which were designed and prepared by 
Jenness Richardson in 1889 at the American Museum of Natural His- 
tory. The birds were mounted by Mr. H. C. Denslow. 

The group which is represented in the second plate of this series 
(Plate xciii) is a more or less elaborate piece of work, also designed and 
prepared by Mr. Richardson at the American Museum of Natural I lis. 
tory in 1886. It represents very faithfully the side elevation of a bank, 
part way down in which a pair of Louisiana water thrushes [Siurm 



436 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

motacilla) have built their nest. The male and female birds are seen 
approaching it. as they leisurely hop along the roots and twigs of 
plants which protrude from the side of the bank. 

Of all the specimens on exhibition in the collections of the American 
Museum, none have a greater attraction for the observer and visitor 
there than the admirable series of bird groups, and one of the most 
life-like of these is the beautiful subject of the third plate in this series 
(Plate xciv). It represents a pair of robins (Merula migratoria) with 
their nest in an apple tree, the latter being in full bloom of early sum- 
mer. • 

The fourth plate in the supplemental series (Plate xcv) represents a 
group of opossums (Didelphis virginiaiia), male, female, and a number 
of young ones. In many respects it resembles the similar groups of 
these animals which are to be seen in the U. S. National Museum, and 
which have been described in the body of this paper. The group rep- 
resented in this plate was prepared and designed by Mr. Jenness .Rich- 
ardson at the American Museum of Natural- History in 1891. It is an 
especially fine piece of work, and although it does not contain as many 
specimens as the National Museum group, it is hardly the less instruc- 
tive on that account. 

In so tar as the larger mammals are concerned, there is probably not 
a piece- in the entire collection of the American Museum of Natural 
History that can in any particular compare with the superb specimen of 
the huge pachyderm shown in Plate xcvi. It is the Indian rhinoceros 
"Bombi" (Rhinoceros unicornis L.). This specimen was mounted at the 
American Museum of Natural History in 1890 by Mr. Richardson and 
his assistants. The data for the work consisted in measurements taken 
from the animal when alive, and also from a photograph obtained at 
the same time. After having been mounted, it was properly colored 
after a living specimen in the Zoological Gardens of Philadelphia. It 
is probably one of the best mounted specimens of this species in the 
United States. 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



PLATE XCII. 




Report 



of National Museum, 1892—Shufeldt. 



PLATE XCMI. 




■V 







A Pair of Louisiana Water Thrushes f«urw 



,oi,u-iUa\ and Nest. 



(.From a group in the American 



Museum of Natural History, New York City.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892— Shufeldt. 



Plate XCIV. 




Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XCV. 




,„ Group of Opossums. 

(From an electrotype lent by the American Museum of N 



Natural History, New York City.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Shufeldt. 



Plate XCV1. 




THE SHOFAR-ITS USE AND ORIGIN/ 



By Cyrus Adlkk, Assistant Curator of Oriental Antiquities. 



The modern Jewish synagogue has preserved in its ceremonial, anions 
other customs, the use of the shofar, translated in the English version 
of the Bible " cornet." Several times during the service on IsTew Year's 
day, or Bosh hashanah, at the conclusion of the Bay of Atonement, on 
the seventh day of the festival of Tabernacles or SuJckoth, Hostiana 
Baba, and during the entire month of Ellul, after the recital of the 
supplications or Selichoth, the shofar is sounded. Its use on all these 
occasions is not general and probably never was, but it still survives in 
many places. For the Xe w Year's service it is the characteristic feature. 

The shofar is usually made of a ram's horn, straightened and flat- 
tened by heat. All natural horns can be shaped either by heat or by 
cooking in oil.t 

The bore of the instrument is a cylindrical tube of very small caliber, 
which opens into a kind of bell of parabolic form. J 

It is not only the solitary ancient musical instrument actually pre- 
served in the Mosaic ritual, but is the oldest form of wind instrument 
known to be retained in use in the world. § 

In the discussion of Wetzstein's paper, cited below, Prof. Steinthal 
pointed out that this was an instrument no doubt used in prehistoric 
times. 

* In the abstract of this paper published in the proceedings of the American Ori- 
ental Society, October, 1889, p. clxxi, if., I made the request forthe communication 
of additional information on the subject, and I have been favored with some valuable 
suggestions from the late Prof. Paul de Lagarde, of Gottingen. 

1 1 have recently met a curious survival of the use and manufacture of a musical in- 
strument made of natural horn. While walking on Pennsylvania avenue, Washing- 
ton, August 22, 1890, I saw a negro boy about 10 years of age with a cow horn in his 
hand. He told me that he had cut off the end, shaped the mouthpiece with a hot 
poker, and then scraped it witli a knife. On being urged, he blewit quite easily. I 
endeavored to secure possession of it, but the boy declined to part with his handi- 
work. 

i Musical Instruments Historic, Rare, and Unique, by A. J. Hipkins, Edinburgh, 
Black, 1888, p. 12. 

§ Ibid., p. 1, and South Kensington Museum Art Hooks, edited l>y William Maskel] ; 
Musical Instruments, by Carl Engel, London, 1ST"): Chapman & Hall, p. 21. 

437 



438 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 189:'. 

There seems to be little doubt that it has been continuously used in 
the Mosaic service from the time it was established until now. (Hip- 
kins, XII.) 

FORM. 

The shape of the instrument varies considerably. The modern ex- 
amples are usually flat (PL xcvn, Fig". 1). Two Italian specimens of 
the seventeenth century preserve the form of the natural horn ; the first 
of these is in possession of the Eev. Dr. S. Morais, of Philadelphia ; it 
was procured for him from Venice by Dr. Isaiah Luzzatto, of Padua. 
The second Italian specimen (PI. xcvn, Fig. 2) was collected by Dr. H. 
Friedenwald, and belongs to the National Museum collections. The 
same shape is exhibited in a beautiful example figured by Hipkins 
(PI. xcvin, Fig. 1), preserved in the Great Synagogue, Aldgate, Lon- 
don. A number of excellent specimens were brought together at the 
Anglo Jewish Historical Exhibition, held in London in 1887. They are 
figured in the accompanying plates and briefly described in the list of 
illustrations. Occasionally the instruments contain Hebrew inscriptions. 
Such an one, found near Dessau, was exhibited before the Berliner 
Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, Ethnologic und Frgeschichte, at the 
meeting of March 20, 1880, and formed the subject of a valuable paper by 
r f. < f. Wetzstein (pp. 63-73. See PI. xcvin, Fig. 3). A similarly carved 
and inscribed instrument is in possession of a lady in New York (PI. C, 
Fig. 1). The inscription reads: a Happy are the people who know the 
sound (of the shofar)," and on the reverse, "In the light of Thy coun- 
tenance shall they walk." The inscription on the Dessau instrument 
consists of Isaiah xxvii, 13 (quoted below), and the two blessings 
recited by the person who blows the instrument: " Blessed art Thou, 
O Lord, our God, King of the Universe, who has sanctified us with 
His commandments and commanded us to hear the sound of the 
shofar;" "Blessed art Thou, O Lord, our God, King of the Universe, 
who has caused us to live, and preserved us, and caused us to reach 
this time/' (Wetzstein, p. G5.) 

The shofar was not the only natural horn used by the Israelites as a 
musical instrument, but no copies or representations of the other instru- 
ments have come down to us. 

Some commentators are of the opinion that the instrument known in 
the Bible by the generic name of qeren, was also made of rani's horn, 
and was very nearly identical with the shofar, the only difference being 
that the latter was more curved than the former. (Engel., p. 21.) 

METHOD OF SOUNDING. 

The method of sounding the shofar has been handed down by tradi- 
tion, though it varies slightly in different communities. Three sounds 
are employed: the shortest, or tcqihi, a broken or interrupted sound, 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCVII. 

Shofars and other Horns. 

Fig. 1. Modern shofar, ordinary form. (Cat. No. 154402.) 

2. Shofar, Italian form. (Cat. No. 95142.) 

3. African war horn (antelope). (Cat. No. 41)60. ) 

4. Shringa. (Cat. No. 92709. India.) 

5. Siamese copper horn. (Cat. No. 27293.) 

6. Large African war horn of ivory, from plaster cast in National Museum. 

(Original in museum of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut.) 
(Cat. No. 94892.) 

7. Small African war horn of ivory, from plaster cast in National Museum. 

(Original in museum of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut.) 
(Cat. No. 94893.) 

8. Ivory war horn. (Cat. No. 127193. Byanzi, Africa. ) 

9. African war horn. (Cat. No. 5412.) 

10. Embuchi; Ivory war horn. (Cat. No. 4793. Pala Ballas, Africa.) 

11. Ivory war horn. (Cat. No. 4793. West coast of Africa.) 

12. Ivory war horn. (Cat. No. 127195. Byanzi, Africa.) 



Report of National Museum, 1 892. — Adler. 



Plate XCVII. 




THE Sllol'AI.'. 



439 



shebarim, consisting' in the teqi % given three times, and terua, which 
is simply a prolongation of the teqi' a. Terua gedola, or the greal teru f a, 
is merely ;m exaggeration of the simple sound ofthatname. The Ger- 
man Jews sound the teqi' a gedola or great te<ji<<. (Hipkins, p. xiii.) 

Tin 1 sound is produced by the ejection of a volume of air into the 
trumpet through the lips, which act as a reed, pressed against the ori- 
fice of the trumpet. 

According to Hipkins the embouchure of the shofar is very di then It, 
and but three proper tones are usually obtained from it, although in 
some instances higher notes can be got. The short rythmic flourishes 
are common, with unimportant differences, to both the German and 
Portuguese -lews, and consequently date from before their separation. 
These flourishes, as used in the ritual, are teqi' a CG shebarim C | GC | 
GC ( Gaud teru'aCGCC | CCCO | OOCC | G usually a tongued vibrato 
of the lower note. The gedola is the great teqi a. concluding the flourishes 
(p. xiii). "The notes here given are those usually produced, but from the 
empirical formation of the embouchure, and a peculiarity of the player's 
lips, an octave is occasionally produced instead of the normal fifth." My 
own observation has led me to the conclusion that the production of 
the octave is quite common. The fundamental, if obtained, is not re- 
garded as a true shofar note. 

Wetzstein gives the following musical notation. 

Teni'a. Shebarim. Teru'a. Teqi'a gedola. 



c- 




$jjir.ri % 



According to Mishna Bosh hashana (iv, 9) the order of sounding the 
shofar is as follows: the sounds are blown thrice, the time of the dura 
tion of the teqi a is equal to that of three teritas, and that of each terua 
is equal to three disconnected notes. 

From this it would appear that the interrupted sound or shebarim 
was not known when this Mishna was written. This conclusion, how 
ever, can not be drawn with certainty. 

THE SHOFAR IN THE LITURGY. 



Portions of the liturgy for New Year's Day have especial reference 
to the sounding of the shofar. First among these is the hymn, Adonai 
beqol shofar, by an unknown author: "With the sound of the, trumpet 
will the Lord publish salvation, to assemble the scattered sheep at the 
coming (accomplishment) of the vision of salvation. God is exalted with 
a triumphal shout." 

"With the sound of the trumpet God causes a voice to be heard 
from heaven, on the holy mountain, and on Jerusalem; then shall the 
place be established, by Thy right hand shall be restored to its primi 
tive state. God is exalted with a triumphal shout." 



440 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

" With the sound of the trumpet the Lord will reveal the period and 
appointed time, when He will blow the trumpet and go in the whirl- 
winds of the south; then shall the wicked kingdom of Edom be de- 
stroyed. God is exalted with a triumphal shout." 

"O Lord, with the sound of the trumpet wilt Thou blow upon the 
holy mountain ; the beautiful dwelling of Zion wilt Thou expand ; Mount 
Seir shall be rent; the fixed stake shall be plucked up and removed. 
God is exalted with a triumphal shout." 

This is followed by a hymn composed of the various passages (to be 
discussed later on) in the Bible, in which the use of the shofar is 
mentioned. The sounding of the cornet thereupon follows. 

The liturgy of the German and Polish Jews contains the ten reasons 
for sounding the shofar stated by Saadia Gaon.* 

Rabbi Saadia observes that God commanded us to sound the cornet 
as alluding to the following subjects: 

First. Because this day is the beginning of the creation on which 
God created the world and thus began to reign over it; and as it is 
customary at the coronation of kings to sound the trumpets and cornets 
to proclaim the commencement of their reign, we, in like manner, pub- 
licly proclaim, by the sound of the cornet, that the Creator is our king, 
and thus says David, •• With trumpets and the sound of the cornet 
shout ye before the Lord."" 

Second. As the New Year is the first of the ten penitential days, 
we sound the cornet as a proclamation to admonish all to return and re- 
pent, which if they do not, they cannot plead ignorance, as having been 
fully informed. Thus also we find earthly kings publish their decrees 
that none may plead ignorance thereof. 

Third. To remind us of the law given on Mount Sinai, as it is said, 
Exodus xix. Hi, "and the voice of the cornet was exceedingly loud," 
and that we ought to bind ourselves to the performance thereof, as our 
ancestors did, when they said, "All that the Lord has said, will we do. 
and be obedient." 

Fourth. To remind us of the prophets who are compared to watch- 
men blowing the trumpets as mentioned in Ezekiel xxxiii, 4, "Whoso- 
ever heareth the sound of the cornet and taketh not warning, and the 
sworu cometh and taketh him away, his blood shall be upon his own 
head, but he that taketh warning shall save his life." 

Fifth. To remind us of the destruction of the Holy Temple, and the ter : 
rifying alarm of the enemy's warriors shouting to battle as mentioned 
in Jeremiah iv, 10, '•because thou hast heard, oh my soul, the sound of 
the trumpet, the alarm of war," and therefore, when we hear the sound 
of the cornet, we ought to beseech the Almighty to rebuild the Holy 
Temple. 



"Saadia lien Joseph, 892-942, our of the great Jewish scholars of the middle a.^es. 
He translated the Bible iuto Arabie and wrote niauy important works. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCVIII 



Shofars. 



Fii;-. 1. Shofar, of the Great Synagogue, Aldgate. Londou. (Photograph frorn Hip- 
kins. ) 

2. * Shofar, exhibited at Anglo-Jewish exhibition. .Supposed to belong to the 

pre-expulsiou period (1290) of the English Jews. (From a photograph.) 

3. Shofar, carved and with inscription. (Photographed from Wetzstein's 

paper. ) 



This figure is illustrated in the catalogue of the Ajiglo-Jewish exhibition. 



Report of National Museum, 1892,-Adler. 



Plate XCVII1. 




l 





the siiofai;. 441 

Sixth. To remind us of the binding of Isaac who willingly submitted 
himself to the will of Heaven ; thus ought we also willingly submit 
even to death itself, for the sanctification of the unity of His holy name. 

Seventh. That when we hear the sounding of the cornet we may, 
by the dread thereof, he induced to humble ourselves before the Su- 
preme Being, for it is the nature of these martial wind instruments to 
produce dread and terror. As the prophet Amos observes, "shall a 
trumpet be blown in a city and the people not be terrified .''' 

Eighth. To remind us of the great and awful day of judgment on 
which the trumpet is to be sounded as mentioned, Zephaniah I, 1I-1G: 
"The great day of the Lord is near, it is near and hasteneth much, a 
day of the trumpet and of shouting." 

Ninth. To remind us to pray for the time when the outcasts of Is- 
rael are to be gathered together, as mentioned, Isaiah xxvn, 13, "and 
it shall come to pass in that day, the great trumpet shall be sounded 
and those shall come who were perishing in the land of Assyria." 

Tenth. To remind us of the resurrection of the dead and the firm belief 
thereof, as the prophet Isaiah saith " Yea, all ye that inhabit the world, 
and that dwell on the earth, when the standard is lifted up on the 
mountain, ye shall behold when the trumpet is sounded, ye shall hear." 

The Biblical passages relating to the trumpet are again employed in 
the additional service or Musaf which is read on Sabbaths and holi- 
days in place of the additional sacrifice commanded for those days. 

In Mishna Bosh hashana (iv, 5) minute directions are given as to the 
nature of the Biblical passages to be employed. 

The order of the blessings is as follows: Aboth (relating to the fore- 
fathers), qedushath hashem (relating to the holiness of God), and gebu- 
roth (relating to the greatness of God), and joined with them are the 
malkiyoth (relating to God as king), and the shofar is not sounded ; then 
come texts concerning the holiness of the day, after which the shofar 
is sounded ; then follow the zikronoth (memorials), after which the shofar 
is again sounded. Next follow the sliofaroth (relating to the shofar), 
and the shofar is sounded; he then says abodah (worship), hodd'ah 
(thanksgiving) and birkath Jeohanim (the priestly blessing). Such is the 
opinion of Rabbi Jochauan ben Nourrie; but Rabbi Aqiba objected 
saying to him: "If the shofar is not to be sounded after the reading 
of the malkiyoth why are they to be mentioned?" But the proper 
order is the following: Aboth, geburoth, and qedushath hashem are said 
with which the malkiyoth are to be combined; after which the shofar 
is to be sounded, then the zikronoth are to be read, and the shofar 
sounded; next sliofaroth and the shofar is again sounded; after which 
abodah, hod a 1 ah and birkath Jeohanim are said. Mishna Eosh hashana 
(IV, 6) provides that no less than ten texts relative to malkiyotJi, zikro- 
noth, and shbfaroth must be said. 

Part of the Bible lesson of the day consists of a recitation of the 
sacrifice of Isaac, and there is a hymn in the service which dwells on 



442 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

the incident. It is possible that it was sought to establish a basis for 
the sacredness of the Ram's horn from the fact that it was a ram or 
Uiyil which was caught in the thickets by its horns and which served 
as an offering instead of Isaac. In Talmud Bosh hashana we read 
"Ye shall blow before me with a shofar of a ram, in order that ye may 
be reminded of the sacrifice of Isaac, the son of Abraham." 

The hymn referred to above contains the acrostic Abbas, Judah, 
Samuel : i. e., Judah ben Samuel ibn Abbas, a poet of the twelfth cen- 
tury, who traveled from Spain to the Orient, and afterward became 
Eabbi of Fez.* 

MISHNIC REGULATIONS. 

The Mishna permitted the use of any horn. In Bosh hashana in, 
3, we read: " Every kind of horn may be used because it is a qeren." 
Eabbi Jose remarked, are not all shofars called qeren (horn) 1 ? (Joshua 
vi, 6.) 

The shofar of New Year's day was usually the straight horn of a 
yaal, a kind of antelope or wild goat (chamois), the mouthpiece of 
which was covered with gold; while the shofar of fast days was a ram's 
horn whose mouthpiece was covered with silver. 

The statute is found in Mishnah Rosh hashana in, 3: "The 
shofar of the New Year was the straight horn, of a yaal, the mouth- 
piece of which was covered with gold, and two trumpets were placed 
on either side. The sound of the shofar was prolonged and that of the 
trumpets made short, because the command of the day is for the shofar; 
(IV) and on fast days crooked rain's horns were used, whose mouth- 
pieces were covered with silver and two trumpets were stationed be- 
tween them. The sound of the shofar was made short and that of the 
trumpets prolonged, because the command of the day is with reference 
to the trumpets (v). The year of the jubilee is like the New Year with 
respect to the sounding and the blessings. Rabbi Jehudah, on the con- 
trary, says: "On New Year they sound with the horns of rams, and at 
the Jubilee with chamois/' 

The instrument used in the modern synagogehas no adornments. It 
probably represents a more ancient form than the instrument described 
in the Mishna. 

A shofar, which had been broken and joined together could not be 
employed, though its use was admissible, if it contained a hole which 
had been closed so as not to interfere with the sound. t 

In the modern synagogue the shofar is not sounded on New Year's 
day when it occurs on the Sabbath. This seems to have been the 



* Karpeles, Geschiehte der Judischen Literatur, p. 496. 

t "It is unlawful to use a shofar which had been rent and afterwards joined to- 
gether; also one composed of several pieces joiued together. If a shofar had a hole 
which had been closed, if it hinders the proper sound, it may not be used; but if it 
does not affect the proper sound it may be used." — Mishna Jionh hashana, ill, 6. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCIX.' 

Shofars. 

Fig. 1. Shofar of the eighteenth century, from Bagdad. Exhibited at the Anglo- 
Jewish exhibition. (Enlarged from a photograph.) 

2. Shofar exhibited at the Anglo-Jewish exhibition. (Enlarged from a pho- 

tograph. ) 

3. shofar (black from age) belonging to the Great Synagogue, London. 

Exhibited at the Anglo-Jewish exhibition. (From a photograph.) 

4. Shofar exhibited at the Anglo-Jewish exhibition. (Enlarged from a pho- 

tograph. ) 

5. Shofar used by the Bene-Israel, a colony of Jews settled in Bombay and 

neighborhood. It was brought from Aden, and is said to be made of the 
horn of an animal called the "cudoo." Exhibited at the Anglo-Jewish 
exhibition. (Enlarged from a photograph.) 



These figures are illustrated in the catalogue of I lie Anglo-Jewish exhibition. 



Report of National Museum, 1892— Adler. 



Plate XCIX. 





! v, 






/ 



- 



Shofars. 



THE SHOFAR. 443 

ancient rule after the destruction of the temple, though it was subject 
to some modification.* 

Mishna Bosh hashana, iv, provides that some person other than the 
reader of the prayers shall sound the shot'ar.f 

BIBLICAL PASSAGES. 

We will now proceed to examine the biblical passages witli reference 
to the shofar. Its use for religious exercise is prefaced by the presence 
of its sound at the giving of the law. (Exodus, xtx, 19; xx, 18.) 

It is mentioned with other instruments as a fitting announcement of 
the new moon. The solemn feasts were similarly announced. New 
Year's day was a u memorial of blowing," though it will be noticed that 
the passages in the Pentateuch which refer to this day, both use the 
word "teruah," or blowing, without expressly mentioning the shofar 
itself. 

"Speak to the children of Israel as follows: In the seventh month, 
on the first day of the mouth, there shall be to you a Sabbath, a memorial 
of blowing, a holy convocation" (Lev., xxin, 24), while in another pas- 
sage it is simply called " a day of blowing" (Numbers, xxix, 1). 

Special feasts or solemn assemblies for particular purposes were 
announced by the blowing of the shofar. (Joel, II, 15.) 

The great year of release, which occurred after the enumeration of 
seven times seven years, was announced by the sounding of the shofar, 
not at the beginning of the year, on New Year's day, as might be 
expected, but ten days thereafter, on the Day of Atonement. (Leviticus, 
xxv, 9.) 

In Isaiah's vision of the great day of judgment the shofar is blown 

* ' ' When the feast of the New Year happened, on the Sabbath they used to sound 
the shofar in the sanctuary, but not out of it. After the destruction of the temple, 
Rabban Jochanan, son of Zaceai, ordained that they should sound ( on the Sabbath) in 
every place where there is a tribunal of justice 'IUih Din). Rabbi Eleazar says: 
"He only issued this order in respect to Jamnia," but they (the other sages) said 
unto him, -, it was the same lor Jamnia as for any other place in which there is a 
permanent tribunal of justice." 

"And in this respect also was Jerusalem privileged above Jamnia, viz, that every 
city from whence Jerusalem could be seen and the Bounding heard, which was near 
enough, and to which it was allowed to go on the Sabbath, might sound; but in 
Jamnia it was only permitted to sound before the tribunal of justice. — Mishna Eosh 
hashana, iv, 2. 

f'ltwasnot permitted for the purpose of sounding the shofar on the feast of 
New Year, to go beyond the Sabbatical limits, to remove a heap of stones under 
which a shofar is buried, mount a tree, ride on any animal, or swim over the waters 
to get a shofar, nor may he cut it with anything that may not be used, on account 
of transgression against the Sabbatical rest, nor disobey on its account any nega- 
tive precept of the law ; but a person may, if he choose, pour water or wine into the 
shofar to improve its sound. Children should not be prevented from sounding, but 
on the contrary it is lawful to bo occupied in teaching them to sound."— Mishna 
Rosh hashana, IV, S. 



444 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

to assemble "those who are lost in the land of Asshur and those who 
are outcasts in the land of Egypt." (xxvii, 13.) 

When David removed the ark to Jerusalem the sound of the shofar 
was heard in the procession. (II Samuel, vi, 15; I Chron., xv, 28.) 

It is mentioned along with other musical instruments as a proper 
accompaniment of psalmody. u Praise Him with tlie blowing of the sho- 
far, praise Him with the psaltry and the harp. 1 ' (Ps., cl, 3; cf. also 
xcviii, 6.) 

Some years ago I was informed it had been introduced into opera by 
an Italian composer, with what success I do not know. 

WAR HORN. 

The most ancient use of signals of any sort was no doubt to apprise 
a tribe of the coming of an enemy and to call together the clansmen for 
defense. Possibly the earliest, certainly the most frequent use of the 
shofar in Israel, was for military purposes. 

The ancient Egyptians used a trumpet for military purposes, but it 
was a long, straight metallic instrument like the Hebrew hagogera. 
(Wilkinson, i, 104f.) 

The troops seemed to have marched to its notes. (Ibid., woodcut 
289, and Eawlinson, History of Ancient Egypt, Vol. I, p. 491.) 

The shofar could be heard at a great distance. There is an allusion to 
its loudness in Isaiah (lviii, 1): "Cry with a full throat, spare not, 
like the shofar lift up thy voice, and declare unto my people their 
transgression, and to the house of Jacob their sins.' 1 

It played an important part in the imposing demonstration made 
before the walls of Jericho. (Joshua, VI, 1, o, C, 8, 9, 13, 16, 20.) 

When Gideon was tilled with the spirit of the Lord he assembled 
the outlaws who composed his army by blowing the shofar (Judges 
vi. 34). Each man carried one of the instruments and the noise thereof 
very materially contributed to the surprise of the Midianite army. 
(Judges, vn, 8, 10, 18, 1$, 20, 22.) 

In the actual narrative itself, the shofar is not as frequently men- 
tioned as the constancy of its use for certain purposes might lead us 
to expect. The infrequency of its mention is in a way, however, a sort 
of evidence of the frequency of its use. The blowing of the bugle is 
as regular a part of a charge as the horses on which the cavalry is 
mounted. Its picturesqueness would naturally strike the mind of a 
poet and so the references to the shofar in the prophetical hooks are 
numerous. 

In the following nineteen passages from the prophets, the shofar 
symbolizes war: 

"Tell ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem, and say, Blow ye the 
shofar in the land: call out, gather together, and say, Assemble your- 
selves, and let us go into the fortified cities." (Jeremiah, iv, 5.) 

"My bowels, my bowels! I am shaken, at the very chambers of my 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE C. 



Shofars. 



Fij>'. 1. Shofar in possession of Miss Elizabeth F. Aaron, New York. (From ;i photo- 
graph of the original drawing, through the courtesy of the Century Com- 
pany, New York. ) 
2. Shofar belonging to the Great Synagogue, London. Exhibited at the 
Anglo-Jewish exhibition. (From a photograph.) (Inscribed.) 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Adler. 



Plate C. 




\ ■ V 




THE SHOFAR. 445 

heart; my heart beateth tumultuously in me; I can not remain silent ; 
because the sound of the shofar hast thou heard, O my soul, t lie alarm 
of war." (Jeremiah, IV, l ( ->.) 

"How long - shall I see the standard, hear the sound of the shofar?" 
(Jeremiahj iv, 21.) 

"Assemble, () ye children of Benjamin, to tiee out of the midst of 
Jerusalem, and in Thekoa, blow the shofar and on Bethhakkerem set 
set up a fire signal; for evil is seen (coming) out of the north, and 
great havoc/' (Jeremiah, vt, 1.) 

"Then did I set watchmen over you, (saying) Listen to the sound of 
the shofar. But they said, We will not listen.'' (Jeremiah, vi, 17.) 

" Saying, No; but into the land of Egypt will we go, that we may not 
see war, nor hear the sound of the shofar, and that Ave may not have 
hunger for bread; and there will we dwell." (Jeremiah, xlii, 14.) 

"Lift ye up a standard in the land, blow ye the shofar among the 
nations." (Jeremiah, li. 27.) 

" And if he see the sword coming over the land, and blow the shofar 
and warn the people." (Ezekiel, xxxni, 3.) 

"And whosoever heareth the sound of the shofar and taketh no 
warning; and the sword cometh, and taketh him away, his blood shall 
be upon his own head." (Ezekiel, xxxni, 4.) 

" The sound of the shofar hath he heard, and he hath taken no warn- 
ing; his blood shall be upon him. But had he taken warning he would 
have delivered his soul." (Ezekiel, xxxni, 5.) 

"But if the watchman see the sword coming, and blow not the shofar 
so thai the people be not warned, and the sword cometh, and taketh 
away from among them some person, this one is taken away for his 
iniquity; but his blood will I require from the watchman's hand. 
(Ezekiel, xxxni, 6.) 

• ldow ye the shofar in Gib'ah, the trumpet in Bamah; bio w the alarm 
at Beth-aven. (The enemy is) after thee, O Benjamin." (Hosea, v, 8.) 

"Set the shofar to thy mouth. (Let the enemy come) like the eagle 
against the house of the Lord; because they have transgressed my 
covenant, and against my law have they trespassed." (Hosea, vm, 1.) 

" Blow ye the shofar in Zion, and sound an alarm on my Holy Mount ; 
let all the inhabitants of the land tremble; for the day of the Lord 
cometh, for it is nigh." (Joel, n, 1.) 

" And I will send a tire against Moab, which shall devour the palaces 
of Keriyoth; and Moab shall die in the tumult, in the shouting, amidst 
the sound of the shofar." [Amos, u, 2.) 

"Shall a shofar be blown in a city and the people not become afraid? 
Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord have not done it." 1 (Amos. 
in, 6.) 

"A day of the shofar and alarm, against the fenced cities, and 
against the high battlements." (Zephaniah, r, 16.) 

"With impatient noise and rage he holloweth (with his hoof) the 



446 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

ground, and keepeth not quiet when the shofar's voice (is heard)." 
(Job, xxxix, 24.) 

OTHER VSES. 

From the Talmud we learn that the use of the shofar as a note of 
alarm of war was transferred to other seasons of danger and -distress. 
Famine, plague of locusts, and drought (Mishna Taanith, 1, 6) occasioned 
the blowing of the shofar. 

The shofar was employed at the public ceremony of excommunica- 
tion.* (Wetzstein, p. 07.) 

A very curious use of the shofar in later times was in funeral cere- 
monies (Wetzstein, p. 07). I agree with Wetzstein that this use of 
the instrument is quite apart from the usual Semitic custom and was 
probably borrowed. 

As a signal instrument of war it had various uses, possibly accord- 
ing to the note that was blown. It was the signal for going out to 
battle, for the announcement of a victory, and for a recall of the troops. 

It was with the shofar that Ehud assembled the people. "And it 
came to pass, when he was come, that he blew the shofar on the moun- 
tain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from 
the mountain and he before them." (Judges, in, 27.) 

"And again there happened to be a worthless man, whose name was 
Sheba, the son of Biehri, a Beiijamite, and he blew the shofar and 
said, 'We have no part in David, nor have we any inheritance in the 
son of Jesse; every man to his tents, O Israel.'" (II Samuel, xx, 1.) 

Isaiah refers to this use (xvin, 3) :t "All ye inhabitants of the world, 
and dwellers on the earth, when the ensign is lifted upon the moun- 
tains, see ye; and when the shofar is blown, hear ye." 

When Jonathan had defeated the Philistines in Geba, " Saul blew 
the shofar throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear," 
(I Samuel xin, 3,), and thus become acquainted with the victory. 

It announced the end of the struggle between Abner and Joab which 
succeeded the death of Saul. (II Samuel, n, 28.) 

After the death of Absalom, which really ended the revolt against 
David, Joab blew the shofar and the people returned from pursuing 
after Israel. (II Samuel, xvni, 16, of. also II Samuel, xx, 22.) 

The shofar was employed to announce the coronation of a king. 
This may be considered but a feature of its use for military purposes, 
since, as some of the passages about to be quoted show, the coronation 

Tn Sanhedrin, 7 !>.. we read : "Rah Huna when about to hold court was accustomed 
to ask for the implements of his trade : a rod, a strap, a shofar, and a sandal." The 
shofar, remarks Rashi, was for use at an excommunication. 

tNakarek Khaneh, a rock near Bandamir, in Persia, is so called (according to tra- 
dition) because at the sound of drums and trumpets the workmen engaged on the 
walls and dikes in the neighborhood assembled there to receive their wages and 
provision. (Qusely, n, 186.) 



THE SHOFAR. 447 

of the king and the announcement of his victory over some other tribe 
or faction were one and the same event. 

When Absalom was engaged in the revolt against his father he sent 
spies among all the tribes of Israel announcing his intentions and in- 
forming them that when they beard the shofar sounded they might say 
that he had become king. (II Samuel xv, 10.) 

In the directions given with regard to the coronation of Solomon the 
use of the shofar is expressly mentioned (I Kings, I, 34 and 30), and its 
sound affrighted Adonijah and guests at their banquet. (I Kings, i, 
41.) 

The overthrow of the house of Ahab and the coronation of Jehu 
were proclaimed in the same way. (II Kings, ix, 13.) 

ETYMOLOGY. 

The etymology of shofar is not at all clear. Gesenius derived it 
from the stem shafar ti to be bright, clear, beautiful — possibly on ac- 
count of its clear sound,' 1 but this is hardly satisfactory. The editors 
of the eleventh edition of Gesenius retain the same explanation.* 

Nothing can be learned from Arabic mbburA This is simply bor- 
rowed from the Talmudic form sippuraov sippiir, the b in Arabic repre- 
senting the Hebrew p, as the Arabic possesses no p, but oidy f.t 

The trumpet now used by the Arabs of Asia Minor, which they call 
seifur, is a metallic instrument. It is x><>ssible, however, that the word 
was originally applied by the Arabs to an instrument of horn. § 

The Arabian Jews called the shofar saafar. We may, however, get 
some light from Assyrian. || 

According to Stade (Grammar, par. 218«) the Hebrew shofar stands 
for a form sa/ppar, and exactly this form has been found in Assyrian. 
In a cuneiform list of animals (II Kawlinson, vi, 6 cd) we find, following 
aturiti, "he goat," the word sapparu, which is accordingly the name of 
an animal, possibly of the goat order. The word also occurs in a 

"They say parenthetically that the shofar was the shape of a horn and })ossiblij 
made of horn. 

tWetzstein, p. 73, proposes an Arabic etymology; infra and safir in Arabic mean 
edge or corner, and it is probably his idea that they bear the same relation to shofar 
that corner bears to Latin cornn. The late Prof, de Lagarde compared shofar with 
Armenian shifora (Armei ische Siudien , p. 117, No. 16931). 

XCf. Siegmund Fraeukel, Die Aramaischen Fremdworter im Arabiachen, Leyden, 
1888, p. 24. 

§ See Musical Instruments and their Homes, by Mary E. Brown and William 
Adams Brown (New York, 1888), p. 196. It is principally interesting because it 
resembles the trumpet played by an Assyrian warrior on a bas-relief of Nineveh and 
the Hebrew trumpet represented on the arch of Titus at Rome. This latter is not 
identical with the shofar; it is the straight metallic trumpet or Uacocera which is 
represented on the arch of Titus (Engel. p". 21 ). 

|| Fr. Delitzsch, Prolegomena eines neuen Hebraisch- Aramaischen Worterbucliea zum 
Allen Testament, Leipzig, 1886, p, 125. 



448 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

bilingual incantation (V Rawlinson, 50, 47-I9/>) describing the action of 
:the disease called asdkku. The passage reads: turdha ina qaqqadisu u 
qarnisn iggabit, atuda sappar sadi sappariasunu iggabit, " the -mountain 
goat by its head and horns it seizes, the lie goat, the sappar of the 
mountain, by its sappartu it seizes." Here sappartu undoubtedly means 
"horn," being the feminine form used in Semitic to denote lifeless objects 
'(Gesenius, Grammar, par. 107, 3, a) ; the conclusion would, therefore, be 
that the shofar is so called because it was originally made of the horn 
of the species of goat called sappar.* The Hebrew shofar corresponds 
to Assyrian sappartu, it being worthy of notice that shofar, although 
not possessing the feminine termination in the singular^ always makes 
a feminine plural. 

In the discussion on the Wetzstein paper Mr. Hartmann suggested 
that the peculiar shape of the horn given to it artificially was intended 
to imitate the shape of the horn of some wild animal, possibly the wild 
sheep (Oris cyprias) ; not that I apprehend that the suggestion is exactly 
correct, since, as will be seen, the shape is not uniform. The suggestion, 
however, that the horn was not that of a domesticated animal, but of an 
animal more difficult to get, seems to have a certain inherent probability. 

Wetzstein is of the opinion that the use of the ram's horn may have 
been borrowed by the Israelites and goes back to a people who were 
engaged solely in the care of sheep. By these it was used as a signal 
of alarm. 

SIMILAR INSTRUMENTS. 

Various ancient and modern nations have used the horns of animals 
for wind instruments. The following specimens are preserved in the 
collection of musical instruments in the U. S. National Museum. 

At the time of the Festival of the Prophet the Berbers use a horn 
which consists of two rams' horns joined at the ends and provided with 
metal mouthpieces. This instrument is now called zamr. The speci- 
men belongs to the National Museum and was collected by Mr. Talcott 
Williams. 

The Shringa, "an ancient outdoor wind instrument of the horn 
species. It is commonly known as the Indian horn. It was the favor- 
ite instrument of the Hindu god Siva." It is a common ox or buffalo 
horn of dark color, scraped and polished, the tip cut off and the em- 
bouchure enlarged and shaped with a hot iron. It is 12h inches in 
length and the diameter varies from five-eighths to 2h inches. In form 
it differs in nowise from the shofar. (PI. xcvn, Fig. 4.) 

The Embuchi, also known as the Ponza, Apunza,a,nd Ouhpwe, an Afri- 
can trumpet or war horn made of an elephant's tusk, the natural cavity 

* Baron von Kuril', in the discussion of \\ etlzstein's paper, asserted that the goat 
horn was still used for making shofars by the Jews of Poland. If this statement be 
correct it would point to a tradition more ancient than that contained in the Jewish 
liturgy. 



THE SHOFAR. 440 

forming the bore of the horn. (PI. xovn. Fig. 10.) The embouchure is 
formed on the inner or concave side of the tusk, the ivory being worked 
away so as to leave a projecting mouthpiece 3f inches long, 1.] inches 
wide and one half inch high. The instrument itself is 2H inches long; 
the diameter tapers from 3£ by 3f to three- fourths of an inch. It is made 
by the Palla Balla negroes of the Lower Congo. 

African war horn made of elephant's tusk, rudely carved about the 
mouth hole and smaller end. It is suspended by a cord of human hair 
sennit. The natural cavity forms the bore of the horn. The embouch- 
ure is made in the concave side of the horn and is elliptic in shape. 
The instrument is 20 inches long, the diameter of the bell being 3£ 
inches. There are four other war horns of elephant's tusks, made in 
various parts of Africa, which do not differ iu form from the specimens 
described above. 

The natives of Sumatra use a trumpet made of the horn of a cow.* 

The earliest metal trumpets were constructed on the same principle 
as the shofar, and in some cases the form of the instrument is plainly 
a copy of some natural horn.t 

Iu one of the smaller mounds at Tello, M. de Sarzec discovered a 
fragment of a large bronze statue. "It was," he says, "a life sized 
bull's horu of bronze plating, mounted on a wooden frame, but the 
wood was carbonized by the action of fire." 

There is a Siamese engraved copper horn in the U. S. National 
Museum shaped like a buffalo horn. (PI. xcvir, Fig. 5.) The British 
Museum possesses a bronze Etruscan cornu (engraved), constructed ou 
the same principle (Engel, p. 33). Of similar pattern was the tuba. 
Both the cornu and the tuba were employed in war to convey signals 
(ibid., p. 36). 

The Greeks had a curved horn, Jceras, made of brass, and a straight 
horn, salpinx, exclusively used in war (ibid., p. 32). Trumpets are 
often mentioned by writers who have recorded the manners and cus- 
toms of the Indians at the time of the discovery of America (ibid., 
p. 67). No specimen of such trumpets have so far been discovered 
among North American aboriginal remains. A wooden wind instru 
ment is in use among the Oarvadoo, an Indian tribe in Brazil. " With 
this people it is the custom for the chief to give on his war trumpet 
the signal for battle, and to continue blowing as long as he wishes the 
battle to last" (ibid., p. 69). 

The metallic descendant of the Indian buffalo horn, the shringa, men- 
tioned above, is the rana shringa, an outdoor instrument made of cop- 
per, formerly used in military and now universally iu religious pro 
cessions throughout India, both by Hindus and Mohammedans, the 



* Indonesien, oder die Inseln dea malayischen Archipel, von A. Bastian. in. IAeferung. 
Sumatra und NackCarackaft. Berlin, 18X6. PI. 11, No. 5. 

tBabelon: Manual of Oriental Antiquities, p. 37; Revue archc'uloyiqut, 1883 (3 e 
sene, t. 11), PI. xx. 

H, Mis. 114, pt. 2 29 



450 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

performers usually being Hindus of the lower caste. In the villages 
of southern and central India the watchmen blow it at sunset and at 
certain hours of the night, like the German nachtwachter. In large 
cities a horn-blower is always attached to the police. There is seldom 
a guard or detachment of native irregular troops without one. It is 
employed in all processions, temple services, marriages, and other 
festive occasions, and at funerals.* 

Another trumpet of the same class is the kurna, used chiefly in reli- 
gious processions, or in festivals in honor of local divinities. Only 
Brahmins and persons of a certain rank are permitted to use the kurna. 
It is esteemed by all Brahmins to be the most ancient instrument of 
music in existence, and the sound of it to be especially pleasing to the 
gods in various particular ceremonies and at solemn parts of the sacri- 
fices (Cf. Ibid. loc. cit.). 

CONCLUSIONS. 

In conclusion, the following deductions, which seem to be legitimate, 
are drawn, though, all are not advanced with equal confidence: 

(1) The oldest wind instrument used by inland peoples was the horn 
of an animal, with a natural cavity, and a mouthpiece formed by cutting 
off the end. Horns which required hollowing came later into use. 

(2) These horns were originally used as signals in time of danger 
and for making announcements in general. 

(3) Many of these important announcements had a religious charac- 
ter. The antiquity of the instrument caused its permanent adoption 
for sacred purposes. 

(I) The shofar, speaking especially of the instrument of that name, 
was originally a wind instrument, made of the horn of a wild goat. Its 
sacred character may be connected with sacrificial use made of the 
goat. 

(5) The etymology of the word is to be sought in the Assyrian sappar, 
a species of wild goat; sappartu (the feminine form) meant originally 
the horn of the sappar, and it may afterwards have been used for horn 
in general. 

Tribes dwelling near the sea used shells for the same purpose. Bib- 
lical Hebrew }iossesses two other words for the horn of some special 
animal, qeren and yobel, which were originally applied to animals. It 
is interesting in this connection that Hebrew qeren, Latin cornu, and 
English horn are all used both for a wind instrument and for the horn 
of an animal. 



* Cf. Capt. Meadows Taylor. Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy, Vol. 
ix, PL 1, p. 110. 



THE CRUMP BURIAL CAVE. 

(BLOUNT COUNTY, ALABAMA.) 



By Frank Burns, U. S. Geological Survey. 



This cave was discovered in the summer of 1840, by Mr. James New- 
man and some of his friends while hunting - . It is located on the 
banks of the southern branch of the Warrior Biver, in Murpheys Val- 
ley, Blount county, Alabama, and is in the steep limestone cliffs where 
the river entered a gorge and left the valley. The entrance to the 
cave was about 400 feet above the stream and 50 feet below the plateau 
above. The opening into the cave was so small that a man could 
scarcely crawl into it. Procuring lights, the hunters entered the cave. 
They found it perfectly dry, the air pleasant and cool, and the rooms 
sufficiently large to accommodate the rather large party of young men. 
A short distance from the entrance was a room, which proved to be a 
"burial cave" of the aborigines. They found eight or ten wooden 
coffins of black and white walnut, hollowed or cut out of the solid, 
after the fashion of the "dugout" canoe. The coffins were sent to the 
Smithsonian Institution, where they have been restored as far as pos- 
sible, and are now exhibited in the department of prehistoric anthro- 
pology. Eight have been restored, and there are in addition many 
parts of coffins. The coffins are about 7£ feet long, 14 to 18 inches 
wide, 2i inches thick, and 6 or 7 inches deep. They have been hol- 
lowed out by fire, aided by stone or copper chisels, or hatchets. Traces 
of the use of both implements are to be seen on the inside. The ends 
are open, as shown in Fig. 1 of the accompanying plate. (PI. ui.) 

In proximity to the coffins were twelve or fifteen human skulls, and 
also a large number of human bones. These were scattered around, 
showing that there had been disturbance after burial, whether by 
beasts of prey or otherwise could not be determined. If there were 
bones of other animals, it was not observed or not reported. 

There were five or six wooden trays — one was secured and sent to the 
Smithsonian Institution. It is 18 inches long, 12 inches wide, li inches 
thick at the bottom, reduced to thin edges at the top, and 3 inches deep. 
Also six small wooden bowls, a fragment of one only being secured. 
Scattered about, but near the skeletons and coffins, were found the 

451 



452 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

following - objects : About 200 pounds of galena, some of the larger 
pieces being rudely grooved, similar to the aboriginal stone axes and 
mauls, as though for warclubs — casse-tetes ; a number of arrow and 
spear heads and other relics ; a small copper hatchet, a copper chisel 
about 5 inches long, and about twenty copper ornaments, most of these 
having small holes drilled as though for suspension ; six or seven large 
shells [Fulgar carica) ; some shell disks and beads and pieces of wooden 
matting about G inches square, made of bark or cane and much decayed. 
One of the copper chisels and some of the galena were in one of the 
coffins. 

The opening of the cave was enlarged, and became a place of some 
celebrity, being visited by the citizens, neighbors, guests, etc., who 
carried away such things as suited their fancy. The skulls were car- 
ried away by doctors, and the beads were appropriated by the children, 
while others broke up the galena and carried it away for the purpose 
of making bullets. 

The cave remained in this condition for twenty or more years. Dur- 
ing the war for the suppression of the rebellion, the cave was excava- 
ted for saltpeter, and was also a hiding-place for refugees. The coffins 
were badly damaged, as is shown by their present condition, but 
fortunately were not destroyed. How they could have escaped use as 
firewood is scarcely imaginable. 

The late Rev. William Crump owned the land on which the cave was 
situated, and from whom it takes its name, and his family still owns it. 
They had in their possession a few years ago, a number of copper 
objects, a few stone implements, and two of the large shells, one of 
which was used at the blacksmith shop for pouring water on hot iron. 
1 made effort to obtain these relics, but failed. They permitted me to 
visit the cave and collect the coffins and pieces there, which I hauled 
a distance of 30 miles to the railroad, and shipped them to the Na- 
tional Museum. I spent some time on different occasions in visiting 
this cave and talking to Mr. James Newman and others who discov- 
ered the cave, and obtained from them the facts which I have here re- 
corded and which I regard in every way as reliable. That the cave 
was a very old burial place is undeniable. 

There is a small mound at the foot of the bluff in the narrow river 
bottom, and around it a number of relics have been plowed up, one 
of which was a "stone wheel" with a groove around it, probably used 
as part of a machine for drilling holes in stone and copper. 

About five miles north of the Crump Cave, on the mountain of lime- 
stone just beneath the overhanging cliff of Millstone Grit, I found and 
forwarded to the Museum an Indian ladder which stood against the 
precipice and had been used to mount or climb up to what the people 
call a "rock house," i. e., a large, roomy, dry place under overhanging 
cliffs of stone, probably used like the cave, for burial purposes. This 
ladder is the trunk of a cedar tree about 8 inches in diameter, is about 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Burns. 



Plate CI. 




Objects Illustrating Prehistoric Burials. (Bronze age.) 

Fig. 1. Hollowed oak coffin, containing skeleton of a man. (Treenhoi, Denmark.) 
Fig. 2. Woman's woolen dress found in oak coffin. (Borum-Eshoi, Denmark.) 
Fig. 3. Detail of woman's woolen dress. (Denmark.) A similar specimen in the 
U. S. National Museum. (Cat. No. 130615.) 



THE CRUMP BURIAL CAVE. 453 

14 feet long, has 7 or 8 steps, 18 or 19 inches apart, made by cutting 
nto the tree a scarf about 6 inches high and 2 inches deep. Near the 
foot of the ladder, but out in the open air, was a rock mound of good 
size, from which some relics had been dug by parties hunting for 
buried Indian money. 

There are many such houses in the coal measures, and they were 
used by the aborigines as dwelling or burial places. I have found 
human bones, and in one instance some beautiful arrow-heads, in a 
number of such places among the mountains. The aborigines would 
lay their dead away in rock crevices in wild and retired spots, and 
cover them with stones enough to protect them from wild animals and 
leave them in the "Eternal Silence." I have in some instances sent 
the bones to the Museum; in other cases 1 left them undisturbed. I 
have walked many miles for the purpose of making similar investiga- 
tions through the country formerly belonging to the Creeks or Musco- 
gees, when it was impossible to ride and dangerous even to walk. 

In the year 1881 I visited the site of a former Creek Indian village 
in Brown's Valley, Marshall County, Ala. This was a village of 
friendly Creeks. They had helped Gen. Jackson in the war against 
their countrymen, and after peace was made, he removed and settled 
them on lands of the Cherokees until they were sent west of the Mis- 
sissippi. The early settlers told me that when one of the Creeks died, 
they buried him in a corner of one of the huts or wigwams, which in 
this village were small houses made of logs after the manner of the 
white settlers, and that when a person was buried in each corner of a 
hut, it was pulled down and removed to another spot. I had no means 
of verifying this report. In the Cherokee country they buried their 
dead in caves in some instances, but generally in the ground, like 
Americans. 

Remarks by Mr. Thomas Wilson. — While this method of coffin 
burial was unusual, if not unknown in the United States, yet there 
were similar burials among the prehistoric peoples of other countries. 
In the center of one of the display rooms in the great Prehistoric Mu- 
seum at Copenhagen stand two coffins, similar in appearance to those 
just described, made of the cloven and hollowed trunk of an oak tree 
(PI. ci, Fig. 2). One came from Treenhoi and the other from Borum- 
Eshoi, Denmark. One contained the body of a man; the other that of 
a woman. The skeleton of the man had crumbled away; that of the 
woman was well preserved. From the remains of the clothing they 
have been able to reconstruct the garment of that period (PI. ci, 
Fig. 3). The material was wool, which had been closely spun, and 
was of the color known in the United States as "butternut"; whether 
that was the original color, or whether it had been changed by contact 
with the oak coffin, was not determinable. The garments consisted o* 
a high cap, a wide, roundly cut mantle, a sort of tunic pieces of 
wool which had probably covered the legs, while at the feet were 



454 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

remains of leather or skin, which had possibly been shoes. The cap 
was without a visor, and it and the garment were covered with a pro- 
jecting knotted thread, which hung down. The tunic was kept together 
with a long woolen belt, which went twice around the waist, was knotted 
in front, and the two long ends hanging down were decorated with 
fringe. At his left side lay a bronze sword in a wooden sheath lined 
with skin. At the foot was a round wooden box containing a smaller 
box of the same kind, which, in its turn, contained an extra woolen 
cap, a horn comb, and a bronze razor. The bodies in both burials were 
wrapped in cow-hide. The woman's coffin contained a bronze fibula, or 
safety pin, a bronze dagger with a horn handle, a spiral finger ring, 
two bracelets, a torque, and three round and beautifully decorated 
bronze belt plates of different sizes, with points projecting in the 
middle. 

There is in the National Museum a square of the same cloth from 
a similar burial, obtained by myself at Frederichsund, a detail of 
which, the fiber and mode of weaving, can be seen as shown in Fig. 3 
of the plate. In these cases the .coffins were different from those at 
Crump's Burial Cave, the corresponding upper half of the tree trunk 
having been hollowed out and serving as a coffin lid. 

The London Chronicle (1767) reports the opening of a mound (barrow) 
near Wareham, Dorsetshire, wherein was found a human burial in the 
hollowed trunk of an oak tree. The bones were wrapped in a covering 
of deer skins sewn together. And here was found what was consid- 
ered a piece of gold lace wrought into lozenge pattern. (Mrs. Bury 
Pallister, History of Lace, p. 3.) J 



MINUTE STONE IMPLEMENTS FROM INDIA. 



By Thomas Wilson, Curator of Prehistoric Anthropology. 



The National Museum has become possessed of an extensive series of 
minute chipped stone implements from India. They were collected by- 
Mr. A. C. Carlyle, formerly of the Arclneologic Survey, in the Vindhya 
hills or mountains in central and north-western India. They were ob- 
tained through the assistance of Mr. Charles Seidler, of London. The 
series comprises every condition of the implement, from the rude mate- 
rial, the nucleus or core, the flake — sometimes rude, often quite symmet- 
rical — and so on through the various steps, until is reached the 
finished chipped implement of every form. Their peculiarity, differing 
from other prehistoric implements, is their remarkably small size. The 
cores themselves arc rarely more than an iuch and three-quarters in 
length, and the blades are rarely more thau an inch and a quarter or 
an inch and a half — the majority of them are not more than an inch, while 
the finished specimen is frequently not more than five-eighths of an 
inch in length. Needless to say that all these flakes are of extreme 
thinness. The finished implements are of various forms — slim, almost 
needle-like, triangular, with a base, convex, straight or concave, quad- 
rilateral, trapezoid, rhomboidal; while the most delicate and finely 
finished are in the form of a crescent. 

These various shapes are indicated in the figures on the accompanying 
plates, and the numbers of each kind belonging to the collection will be 
given in the list at the end of this paper. Plate Oil represents some of 
the implements by photograph. There is a marked difference between 
the two edges of the crescents. The crescent edge is thick and has been 
worked in to its present shape by the secondary chipping of the most 
minute kind, while the straight edge is the cutting edge, sharp and thin, 
just as it comes from the nucleus, and is without any secondary chip- 
ping. The material comprises all the variety of silicious rock jasper, 
cli rt, horn-stone, flint, agate, and chalcedony; some of them are rare 
and fine specimens. They belong to the neolithic period, although they 
are something new to its culture. The whole series bears the same im- 
press. The similarity of form and mode of manufacture, and their be- 
ing found in the same general locality, is evidence showing the same 
intention on the part of the makers, although we are quite in the dark 

455 



456 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

as to what that intention was. All varieties of .small implements were 
found by Mr. Carlyle in the eaves and rock-shelters among - the Vindhya 
hills in places difficult of access and unknown to the ordinary traveler. 
Some of them were found in the alluvium at the mouth of the cave, 
where they had been washed out and were caught in slight ledges of 
the rock, after the fashion of washed gold in the rocking-cradle. Within 
the caves they were found in the upper strata, while immediately be- 
neath, but separated from them, were larger implements, different in 
size, kind, and style, and formed of indurated sandstone, hematite and 
chert. Crescent implements were found in grave mounds in the neigh- 
borhood of the caves, leading one to suppose that the inhabitants of 
the eaves who made these implements built the mounds and here 
buried their dead. Mr. Carlyle, while agreeing that these implements 
belonged to the neolithic period, has found those belonging to the 
paleolithic period in the same locality, and believes that the evidence 
of the archaeology of the district shows, contrary to the opinion held 
in regard to Western Europe, that there was no such hiatus between 
the paleolithic and neolithic periods, and that the series of implements 
run from one period to the other, their difference being accounted for 
by the general progress from the lower to the higher civilization. To 
this period of transition, Mr. Carlyle has given the name of "mezo- 
lithic." 

It is not easy to determine the purpose of these small implements, 
especially the crescent, trapezoid, and scalene triangular, which have 
neither known prototype nor antetype. Some of the triangular and 
long-pointed ones might have served as arrow-heads. If they had been 
found on the California coast, they would, without doubt, have been 
thus attributed ; but they are entirely different from any recognized 
arrow-heads in the Western Hemisphere. It has been suggested that 
they, or some of their kindred, might have been used for tattooing, 
but there is nothing more to favor this than its possibility and our ig- 
norance of their real purpose. Some of the smaller and straigkter 
objects might have served as needles or perforators. A possible use 
akin to that of tattooing might have been that of the medicine man 
for bleeding or scarifying. One can scarcely understand any use possi- 
ble which should have required the infinite number of these implements 
or confined them to the one general locality. 

There surely is not enough distinctiveness in these implements to 
induce the belief that they form a racial distinction. 

Mr. Carlyle reports that on the walls of some of the caves at Morahua 
Pahar there were rude drawings of men and animals painted in red. 
They were of the usual character seen in pictographs of savage races, 
and the interest is increased by the fact that in these caves, and associ- 
ated with these implements, rude pottery was found, roughly orna- 
mented by incised marks which might have been made by some of these 
flakes. " These pieces of pottery," says Mr. Carlyle, "were rubbed 



Report of National Museum, 1892.— Wilson. 



Plate Cll. 



(Hhltllll >>< M 
'MiMIIM tllll 



A Series of Minute Prehistoric Stone Implements from Caverns in the Vindya Hills, 

India 
Four-sevenths natural size. 



Plate CHI. 



Report of National Museum 



1892.— Wilson. 







Minute Prehistoric 



Stone Implements from 
Natural size. 



CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN FRANCE. 



MINUTE STONE IMPLEMENTS PROM INDIA. 457 

down and smoothed by pieces of red hematite which had been brought 
from the laterite deposits.'' There were also grinding stones with which 
this hematite might have been ground into a paste, such as would serve 
to decorate the walls. These implements have been found by other 
travelers — other archaeologists, one might say. Mr. Rivett Oarnac has 
found them in the Panda district and described them in a paper en- 
titled " Stone Implements from the Northwest Provinces of India," 
Calcutta, 1883. Sir John Evans has also desciibed the discoveries of 
worked flints near Jubbalpur^ in central India, in Proceedings of the 
Society of Antiquaries, second series, Vol. in. Prof.Haynes, of Boston, 
found some in Egypt; Bellucci found them in Tunis; the French army 
of occupation found them all along the northern coast. Adrian de 
Mortillet describes them in LPHomme, Vols, i and n, as from central and 
southern France. While those from France are similar to these now 
under discussion from India, yet it is to be suggested that they are 
not in sufficient number to be more than sporadic (Plate cm). Mr. 
Merejkowski found some of these in the Crimea near Kizilkoda, and 
has described them in his Premier recherche sur Vage de la pierre en 
Eussie (St. Petersbourg, 1880). Whether these are of types sufficiently 
pronounced and are found in sufficient numbers to have relation to the 
implements from India, I am unable to say. 

CATALOGUE OF SMALL CHIPPED IMPLEMENTS FROM INDIA, SHOW- 
ING FORM, MATERIAL, AND LOCALITY. 

Collecied by Mr. A. C. Carlyle. 

Crescent-shaped implements: No. 

Perfect : Morahua Pahar : Agate, chalcedony, chert 26 

Broken at both ends: Morahua Paliar : Agate, chalcedony, jasper, chert .. 14 

Some broken : Barkura, west of Morahua : Jasper, chert 13 

Perfect : Partap Ganj : Agate , 1 

Perfect : Basari, east of Maihiar : Agate and chert 2 

Rude: lathi, Riwa Territory: Carnelian, agate, chalcedony 5 

Perfect : Barkura, west of Morahua Pahar : Chalcedony 1 

Quadrangular: 

Barkura, west of Morahua Pahar : Agate 1 

Partap Ganj : Agate 1 

Triangular: 

Barkura : Chalcedony 3 

Morahua Pahar : Agate, jasper 2 

Likhneya Pahar : Agate 1 

Magardah Pahar, Mirzapur district : Agate 5 

Fields near Banda : Agate 1 

Fields near Banda : Agate, chalcedony 3 

LONG, NARROW-POINTED IMPLEMENTS WITH ROUNDED BUTT: 

Moretha Pahar : Agate 1 

Morahua Pahar : Agate [ 1 

Partap Ganj 1 

Implements with sloping end: 

Barkura : Chalcedony 6 

Moretha Paliar : Chert 2 



458 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Implements with sloping end — Continued. No. 

Barkura : Chert 2 

Chovwa Pahar, Laoriya Dali 2 

Partap Ganj 1 

lathi, Riwa Territory : Jasper 1 

Fields near Banda : Chert 1 

Misir Gaon, south of Naon : Jasper 2 

Magardah, Mirzapui district : Agate 2 

Morahua Pahar : Agate, chalcedony, etc 13 

Drills: 

Likhneya Pahar : Agate 2 

Baghe Khor,West Bhains-awar : Moss agate, chalcedony 4 

Moretha Pahar 2 

Moretha Pahar 1 

Bhagatpura near Hanumana : Jasper 1 

Crimped-back flakes: 

Morahua Pahar : Agate, Jasper, etc ; 13 

Round-ended implement: 

Morahua Pahar : Agate 1 

Pointed implements: 

Likhneya Pahar : Agate , 5 

Round-ended implements: 

Donga Pahar, east of Satua 4 

Moretha Pahar : Agate 1 

Aniila Nala Bhains-awar : Agate 4 

Long pointed implement: 

Morahua Pahar 1 

Small oval implements: 

Fields near Banda : Agate, chert., etc 4 

Small, narrow implements with finely worked points : 

Morahua Pahar : Agate, chalcedony, etc 22 

Long, narrow curved implements: 

Morahua Pahar : Chalcedony, agate, etc 9 

Rounded ends: 

Bhains-awar : Agate 2 

Long, narrow implements : 

Round ends : Morahua Pahar : Agate 3 

Two faceted with triangular section : Morahua Pahar 2 

Small implements of various shapes: 

Morahua Pahar : Agate, chalcedony 14 

Fields near Banda 7 

Small flakes with minute secondary chipping: 

Barkura : Chalcedony 1 

Pointed implements with square back: 

Barkura : Chert 4 

Naro 8 

Knife-shaped implements: 

Naro 3 

Long, narrow implements: 

Naro ti 

Knife-shaped implements : 

Moretha Pahar : Jasper, etc ti 

Long, thick, and narrow implements: 

Naro 4 

Cores: 

Naro 2 



MINUTE STONE IMPLEMENTS FROM INDIA. 459 

LONG, NARROW flakes: No. 

Much chipped from use : Morahua Pahar: Agate, chalcedony, chert 56 

Afew chipped: Morahua Pahar : Agate, chalcedony 12 

A few chipped: Partap Ganj : Agate, chalcedony 21 

A few chipped: Markura : Chalcedony, agate, etc 30 

Flakes and chips: 

Very small; Morahua Pahar: Agate, chalcedony, jasper 35 

Narrow; used as side scrapers : logianDari: Agate, jasper 3 

Narrow; Phases of usage : logianDari: Agate, jasper, chalcedony 6 

Long and narrow : Kachnar Ki Pahar : Agate, chert, etc 63 

Flakes: 

Long and narrow, mostly used : Moretha Pahar 129 

Long and narrow, mostly used: Barkura : Chert, agate 12 

Long and narrow : Suwara Khate, west of Katia Ghat, Southern Mirzapur 

District : Chalcedony 7 

Small: Morahua Pahar: Chalcedony, agate, chert 191 

Small : Magardah. Mirzapur District 9 

Small : Fields near Banda : Agate 25 

Small : Amila Nala, West Bhains-awar: Agate, etc 4 

Used : Magardah, Mirzapur District .- 11 

Scrapers: 

Okhara Pahar; West Hanumana, north part of Riwa Territory 1 

Balnathka Pahar, Mirzapur District : Chalcedony 6 

Likhneya Pahar : Agate : 1 

Bhains-a war : Rock crysta 1 1 

Boat-shaped implements : 

Bhage Khor, West Bhains-awar 2 

Moretha Pahar 1 

Spoon-shaped implements : 

Naro 6 

Saws ( f ) : 

Naro 2 

Long, cutting implements: 

Naro 4 

Likhneya Pahar 7 

Sen a per: 

Gusru, south of Maihiyar 1 

Flakes used as knives: 

Lakhahar Pahar 3 

Naro 10 

Fields near Banda 10 

Large chipped implements: 

Donga Pahar, east of Satna 2 

Flakes POSSIBLY USED as scuapeks: 

lathi, Riwa Territory : Chalcedony , agat e 19 

Bhains-awar: Jasper 20 

Misir, south of Naon : Jasper 9 

Suwara Khate, South Mirzapur District: Quartz 6 

Partap Ganj : 7 

SCRAPEKs: 

Basari, west of Maihiyar 4 

Chorwa Pahari, Laoriya Da h 2 

Rajapour, Riwa Territory 6 

Baghe Khor, near Bhains-awar: Jasper 3 

Gadur Hata, West Naogaon Riwa 3 



460 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Scrapers — Continued. No. 

Nawa 1 

Chilahwa Nala, Riwa Territory 2 

Flakes: 

Primari chipping : Partap Ganj 10 

Primari chipping : Naro 7 

Secondary chipping : Hanumavi, Riwa Territory : Chalcedony 1 

Secondary chipping : Dhir 5 

Secondary chipping: Hills between Parari and Mahatain 4 

Secondary chipping : Barkura 6 

Secondary chipping : Barkura 15 

Three or four faceted : Barkura 4 

Some with secondary chipping : Barkura 14 

Large and small : Babura, Mirzapnr I dstrict 5 

Large and small : Maro 14 

Large and small : Chorwa Pahari, Laoriya Dah 5 

Large and small : Singhpur Patar Kaehar 10 

Large and small : Naro 5 

Long and narrow : Morahua Pahar 9 

Long and narrow : Naro : Agate . *. 14 

Some with secondary chipping: Kot Tirath, South Chilrakot: Agate 11 

Some with secondary chipping : Moretha Pahar 9 

Some with secondary chipping : Rajapur : Agate, jasper 5 

Some with secondary chipping : Naro 7 

Long and narrow : Morauah Pahar 13 

Long and narrow : Amila Nala. west Bhains-awar 6 

Flakes and scrapers: 

Marpha 23 

Moretha Pahar 14 

Partap Ganj _ 22 

Chilahwa. Nala, Riwa Territory 14 

Koda ila Pahar, west of Partap Ganj 15 

Naonka Pahar, north of Partap Ganj 8 

Knife with square back: 

Naro - 1 

Pottery and bones: 

Baghe Khor, near Bhains-awar 6 

Flakes with secondary chipping: 

Fields near Banda 9 

South of Kalinjar : Agate, chert, etc 36 

Cores : 

Various localities : Agate, chert, chalcedony 81 

Palaeolithic (f) 

SCRATERS; LARGE, ROUGHLY CHIPPED: 

River gravels of the Gawr Riwa : Jasper, chert, etc 24 

River gravels of the Nabada Riwa : Jasper, chert, etc 9 

Flakes and scrapers, large and roughly chipped: 

Marpha : Basalt 12 

Various localities 51 

Thick scrapers: 

Various localities: Chert, jasper, etc Ill 

Rude implements: 

Various localities : Chert, jasper, etc - -. 1 () 

Flakks: 

Various localities: Agate, etc 47 



comparative: oology of north American birds. 



Bv R. \V. Snri.Ei.DT, SI. 1). 



The only object of this paper is to bring together what is already 
well known in regard to the oology of North American birds, placing 
it before the ornithologist in a more condensed form than it is usually 
given and in a comparative way. The question of the variation in 
the matter of form and coloration of the eggs of the birds of this and 
other countries has interested the writer for many years, and in the 
light of our present knowledge of the relations existing between birds 
and reptiles, both in this age and the past ages of the world, I have 
often wondered at what the causes were that eventually brought 
about the variation in color and form of which I have just spoken. 

So far as the writer is concerned, he is not aware of the discovery of 
the eggs of any of the now extinct forms of reptiles, either fossil or 
subfossil, and it is beyond all probability that we will ever know what 
the eggs of Archceopteryx, or any of the toothed birds of the Kansas 
Cretaceous beds (Hesperomis, Ichthyomis, and others), or, indeed, any 
of the smaller extinct types of Aves, looked like. We have in our 
possession but very little upon this subject. Of the extinct Dinornis 
of New Zealand, and of the ponderous JEpyomis of Madagascar, also 
extinct, we have their eggs in a subfossil state, but except in the point 
of size they probably did not markedly depart from those of existing 
Ostrich types of birds (Struthionidce) now living and most nearly 
related to them. 

All of the eggs of the common African Ostrich (Struihio camelus) that 
1 have examined have been of a more or less ellipsoidal form, unitinted, 
and with hard, flinty, and externally polished shells.* Their peculiar 
mode of incubation is well known and has been faithfully described by 
Lichenstein.t During the breeding season a cock Ostrich associates 

"North African Ostriches, strange to say, differ remarkably from those of the Cape 
of Good Hope birds, in so far as the eggs of the former have a perfectly smooth, 
ivory-like surface, while those of the latter are rough-surfaced and dinted all over 
with minute punctures; yet no specific difference seems to obtain between the forms 
of the birds themselves from the two localities mentioned. 

t Lichensteiu, SI. II. K. : Reise im siidlichen Africa, II, pp. 42-4."> ( Berlin, 1812). 

461 



462 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

with tour or rive hens and the latter all lay their eggs in the same nest 
until some thirty are deposited. The male bird incubates during the 
night and the hens take turns during the day. 

The main facts to bear in mind here are that the eggs average about 
30 in number, are ellipsoidal in form, and are unspotted, being a yel- 
lowish-white in color, with a hard shell. The South American Ostriches 
(Rhea ) essentially agree in these character's.* We meet with exceptions, 
however, among the Ratitce in the Cassowaries and Emus. The mode 
of incubation here is much the same as in the Ostriches, but Cassowa- 
ries (Casuaridw) lay dark-green and rough-shelled eggs, while the 
Emus (Dromceidm) make a shallow nest in the ground, in which they 
lay from 9 to 13 eggs of a bluish-green to a dark bottle-green color; 
the period of incubation being eighty days, the cock bird performing 
the duty of hatching. Apieryx lays but a single egg two or three times 
a year. It is enormous for the size of the bird, and is deposited in a 
hole in the ground. Authors differ in their opinion as to the question 
of incubation. Some hold it is performed by both sexes, while others 
contend that it is performed only by the female. The Ratite birds are, 
structurally, the most reptilian forms of the class Arcs we have in ex- 
istence, yet were we to depend upon a study of their methods of incu- 
bation and their eggs it would be but an uncertain clew as to what we 
might be led to expect either in the higher groups of carinate birds, or 
in existing reptiles, or in extinct forms of either class, or finally, in 
lowly organized birds of other groups. We have the main facts, how- 
ever, that in the Ratitce the eggs may in number range from one to 
many; in color from yellowish- white to a green (never spotted or 
streaked, etc.); in form ellipsoidal (always?); and incubated by one or 
both of the sexes. Let us look at one or two other peculiar groups of 
birds and then pursue the subject in a different direction. In the case 
of the Penguins (Impennes), they lay two white or greenish-white eggs 
in a rude nest on the ground or in a burrow, while, on theother hand, 
the Tinamous (Grypturi) lay eggs which are "remarkable objects, curi- 
ously unlike those of other birds. Their shell looks as if it were of 
highly burnished metal or glazed porcelain, presenting also various 
colors, which seem to be constant in the particular species, from pale 
primrose to sage green or light indigo, or from chocolate brown to pink- 
ish orange."t 

Incubation is performed by the male,! a strong Ratite character; nest 
"a mere scrape, insufficiently lined with a few grass-leaves." § Herr 
von Nathusius has further observed that the minute structure of the 
eggshell of a Tinamou "is quite different from that of the true Galli, 

*Newton, A.: Art. "Rhea,'' Encyclo. Brit., 9th ed.. Vol. xx, p. 506. 
t Newton, A. : Art. '•Tinamou," Encycl. Brit., 9th ed., Vol. xx.ni, p. 403. 
t Bartlett, Mr. : P. Z. S.. 1868, p. 11."., PI. \n. 
§ Hudson, Mr.: In Argent. Orn. v. n, p. 210, 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 463 

and more resembles that of apteryx."* In form they are more or less 
globular and completely opaque. This last-named character in the 
eggs of birds is a very interesting one to the student. Prof. Newton, 
who has thrown so much light for us upon the subject of avian oology, 
remarks upon this point that " In form, eggs vary very much, and this is 
sometimes observable in examples not only of the same species but 
even from the same mother, yet a certain amount of resemblance is 
usually to be traced according to the natural group to which the par- 
ents belong. Those of the Owls (Strigidw and of some of the Picariw — 
especially those which lay the glossy eggs above spoken of — are often 
apparently spherical, though it is probable that if tested mathematic- 
ally none would be found truly so; indeed it maybe asserted that 
few eggs are strictly symmetrical, however nearly they may seem so, 
one side bulging out, though very slightly, more than the other. The 
really oval form with which we are most familiar needs no remark, but 
this is capable of infinite variety caused by the relative position and 
proportion of the major and minor axis. In nearly all the Idmicolm 
and some of the Alcidce the egg attenuates very rapidly towards the 
smaller end, sometimes in a slightly convex curve, sometimes without 
perceptible curvature, and occasionally in a sensibly concave curve. 

The eggs having this pyriform shape are mostly those of birds which 
invariably lay 4 in a nest, and therein they lie with their points almost 
meeting in the center and thus occupying as little space as possible 
and more easily covered by the brooding parent. Other eggs, as those 
of the Sand Grouse ( Pt&roeleidce), are elongated and almost cylindrical 
for a considerable part of their length, terminating at each end obtusely, 
while eggs of the Grebes (PodicipedidcB), which also have both ends 
nearly alike, but pointed, are so wide in the middle as to present a 
biconical appearance.! 

The remarkable variation in both color and form of the eggs of many 
of our North American birds can nowhere be better studied and appre- 
ciated than is the splendid quarto (with its many beautifully colored 
plates), recently published by Oapt. Bendire,| and in the treatises of 
corresponding magnitude of other authors, as those of Wolley, Thiene- 

*Journ. fur wissensch. Zoologie., 1871, pp. 330-355. Mr. Lucas, of the U. S. 
National Museum, tells me that the egg of Apteryx is white, and the shell like that 
of a hen's egg. 

tNewton, A.: Art. "Birds" Encycl. Brit., ninth ed., vol. m, p. 775. See also in 
this connection the valuable contributions to the subject by dea Murs, Triate" gdneral 
d'Oologie ornitbologique (8 vo. Paris: 1860). 

t Beudire, Charles : Life Histories of North American Birds, with special reference to 
their breeding habits and eggs, 12 lith., plates Washington, 1892. (U. S. Nat. Mas.) 
Special Bull. No. 1. The author of this superb work promises to produce in the 
future similar volumes treating of other groups of our birds. Those dealt with in 
the present installment are the gallinaceous birds, the Pigeons, and Birds of Prey, 
in which latter group he includes the somewhat heterogeneous assemblage of the 
American Vultures, the Falconidw, and the Owls. 



464 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

niann, Hewitson, Brewer, of this country, Taczanowski, Lefevre, Bade- 
ker, aud special memoirs in the publications of the learned societies. 

With the information then upon the form of birds' eggs in general given 
as above by Xewton, and the facts that birds so low in the scale of organ- 
ization as the Ostriches, Emus, Cassowaries, Apteryx, Tinainous, and 
Penguins lay eggs varying all the way from 1 to 30, being either globular 
or ellipsoidal in form, white or uni tinted in color, with highly polished 
shells or the reverse case, I turned to the oology of existing reptiles 
to ascertain if possible what its study would offer in contrast. With 
this in view I communicated with my friend Prof. Samuel Garman, of 
the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College, and in his 
reply the following facts were kindly placed at my disposal.* That 
distinguished herpetologist, observes: "All eggs of reptiles, so far as 
1 know, are white. Those eggs with a limy covering are pure white; 
those leather-covered, without the lime, are sometimes dingy to yellow- 
ish, or flesh tinted. Marine tortoises lay spherical eggs. So, also, do 
various river tortoises, as Podqcnemys of the Amazon. In species lay- 
ing ellipsoidal eggs individuals sometimes vary to the spheroidal, in 
the snapping tortoise (Chelydori) for instance. Some of the land or box 
tortoises lay a very small number of eggs, possibly the smallest among 
the reptiles. The largest number is attained by sea tortoises, species 
of which are said to lay more than 200 in a season. The Crocodiloidea 
also lay large numbers. Some of the smaller lizards lay very few; the 
average will probably be smaller in lizards than in tortoises or snakes. 
The lizard's eggs with which I am acquainted are all ellipsoidal in 
shape. A near approach to the spheroid is made in some cases, as 
Gonatodes, a small Geckoid. The greatest departure from the sphe- 
roid is seen in some snakes, as for instance Scatophis or Pityophis. Of 
tortoises or lizards I know none that incubate, though some of the lat- 
ter have acted as if keeping guard over the eggs until hatched. As 
you are aware a arious lizards and snakes hatch the eggs before extru- 
sion, being ovoviviparous. The pythons coil around the eggs to hatch 
them. Both ends of the reptile egg are usually alike ; neither is pointed 
as in a bird. The alligator, as you know, has a habit of nesting like 
that of the Megapodes of the birds."' 

It is as well to remark at this point that, according to Wallace, t the 

*Dr. Leonard Stejneger, curator of the department of reptiles, U. S. National 
Museum, also seut me a letter on the sam«gubject, for which I desire to express my 
thanks. Such information as he was able to furnish me, however, is contained iu 
Prof. Carman's letter, where the ground is more fully covered. 

tWallace. A. P., The Malay Archipelago, New York, 1869, p. 166. Upon pages 402 
and 403 of this work the author also says of M. wallacei that it " comes down to the 
seabeach to deposit its eggs; hut instead of making a mound or scratching a hole 
to receive them, it burrows into the sand to the depth of about 3 feet obliquely 
downward and deposits its eggs at the bottom. It then loosely covers up the mouth 
of the hole, and is said by the natives to obliterate and disguise its own footmarks 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 465 

Megapodes lay bricJc-red eggs, and Sharpe tersely remarks in his Classi- 
fication of Birds, "Nest none. Eggs deposited in a mound raised by 
many of the birds in concert. Young hatched without the intervention 
of the parent bird, and able to fly almost from birth" (p, 68). It would 
seem then that in the nesting habits of the Megapodes, we see not a little 
to remind us of the corresponding habits in some oft he reptiles. Ac- 
cording to Gibson crocodiles -'are oviparous, depositing their eggs, 
from 20 to GO in number and inclosed in a calcareous shell, in holes 
made in the sand or mud of the river side, where they are left to be 
hatched by the heat of the sun, or as in the case with certain Ameri- 
can species, in hillocks formed by themselves which they hollow out 
and fill with leaves and other decaying vegetable matter, where the 
eggs are hatched by the heat generated in the decomposing mass."* 
The very distinguished herpetologist, Prof. E. D. Cope, also briefly 
writes me thus, his communication being dated Philadelphia, Decem- 
ber 15, 1892 : "As to reptile eggs I know of noneexcepting those of Croc- 
odilia, which are not elliptic and white. Tortoises lay more eggs than 
either lizards or snakes, so far as known. No incubation among rep- 
tiles is known to me excepting in the cases of Pythonid snakes. I 
must add that a great deal remains to be known on the subject/' 

Among the Craces the nest is placed in a tree, the eggs are white 
and two in number. (Sharpe, loc. cit., p. 68.) 

With the facts that I have enumerated in the foregoing paragraphs 
at our command, we can next pass to the consideration of tiie oology 
of the various groups of birds occurring in the avifauna of the United 
States, and here, relying as 1 do upon the published works of authors, 
who are widely recognized as authorities in such matters, I find the 
greatest amount of variance in the descriptions. These differences of 
opinion refer to the number of eggs laid by any particular species of 
bird, to the coloration of the eggs, and to the questions of nesting and 
incubation. In cases where, from the rarity of specimens, or where 
the eggs of certain species are known to vary even in the clutch laid 
by the same individual, and so on, there may be some excuse for this 
but in cases where hundreds or even thousands of eggs of the same 
species have been examined by competent describers, it would seem 
that it is about time we had something like uniformity in description. 
This is only too frequently not the case, as the reader later on will soon 
discover. 

Among our more lowly organized groups of birds stand the Divers 
(Uriiiatoroidea), and Grebes (Podicijioidca). related as they are to the 



leading to and from the bole by making many other tracks and scratches in the 

neighborhood. It lays eggs only at night. * All these birds seem to be semi- 

nocturnal. The eggs arc all of a rusty-red color, and very large for the 

size of the bird." 

* Gibson, John, Art. "Crocodile." Encycl. Brit., 9th ed., vol. vi, p. 593. 
H. Mis. Ill, pt. 2 30 



466 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

extinct toothed-birds of the genus Hesperornis y * and yet their nidifiea- 

tion is not as indicative of reptilian affinity as is that of some of the 
higher groups. Of course it is not at all likely that Ave- shall ever 
know what the eggs of any of the toothed birds looked like, or much less 
what their breeding habits were, but it is fair to presume that it dif- 
fered in important particulars from existing Pygopodes. I am of the 
opinion, however, that all the early reptiles and reptile like birds laid 
white eggs, of either an ellipsoidal or of a spheroidal form, and they 
were not hatched by the parents. In number they may have been few 
or many. 

Authors appear to be agreed that with respect to the Grebes they 
build a nest of rushes and sedges, etc.. which to a greater or less extent 
tloats upon the surface of the water in ponds and marshes among the 
reedy growths there occurring. They differ, however, in their descrip- 
tions of the eggs. Newton says their eggs have " a chalky white shell 
almost equally pointed at each end;"-t Kidgway states "eggs 2 to 5, 
dull white, bluish-white, or very pale bluish-green," while Cones 
observes that " the eggs are more numerous thau in other pygopdous 
birds, frequently numbering 6 to 8; elliptical, of a pale or whitish color, 
unvariegated; commonly covered with chalky substance.f Dr. Sharpe, 
in his Classification of Birds, says the eggs are white,§.but does not 
mention the number laid by members of this group. Both in form and 
color, then, Grebes' eggs remind us of reptiles', which is not the case in 
either particular with the Divers. Here we tind according to Coues that 
the Colymbidce "lay two or three dark-colored spotted eggs in a rude nest 
of rushes by the water's edge" (loc. tit., p. 789), while Ridgway declares 
the eggs to be but two, " elongate-ovate, deep brown or olive, latter 
sparsely speckled or spotted with dark brown and blackish" {Inc. c/Y .,p. 7). 
Sharpe says nothing about their being spotted, but that they are two 
in number and of a "dark olive-brown" (loc. tit., p. 7). The eggs of these 
birds are probably spotted and the fact is an important one, as it is not 
only a point of difference between their eggs and those of the Grebes, 
but in that particular they differ from the eggs of any known reptile. 
They are the first eggs that have markings on them that we meet with 
among the lower groups of our birds. The difference in form is equally 
important, as it is likewise the first departure from the reptilian ellip- 
soidal or spheroidal form of egg, it being in the Divers larger at one end 
than it is at the other. 

The Tubinaees is another group wherein we find the birds laying, as 
a rule, an ovate or subovate egg that may be spotted or pure white. 



*Shufeldt, R. V\\, Concerning the taxonomy of the North American Pygopodes, 
based upon their osteology. Jour, of Anat. and Phys.. vol. XXVI, Loud., 1892. p. 199. 

tArt. "Grebe," Encycl. Brit.. 9th ed., Vol. XI, p. SO. 

,*l>i(lg\vay, Robert: A Manual of North American Birds, 18S7. p. t. For the 
American Eared Grebe this author gives " eggs lour to eight" (p. ti). 

(ones. E. Key to North American Birds, ISSl. rev. ed.. p. 793. 

§Loc. cit., p. 71. 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 



467 



The following table compiled from Coues's Key (rev. ed.) and Ridg- 
way's Manual will fairly present the oologieal characters of this group. 

Oology of North American TuMnares. 



Species, etc. 



Generai characters, the Alba- 
trosses. 



Coues. 



D. albatnis 



Phoebetria fuliginosa - 

PROCELLAKIIDiE 

Fulmarus glacialis. . . 



Puffin us p ii flit) us. (Manx Shear- 
water.) 

Oceanodroma leucorhoa, Leach's 
Petrel. 



Single egg, on the ground, near- 
ly equal ended; white: both 
sixes incubate. 



Egg single, white, with rough 
brittle shell, resembling" a 
hen's egg in size and shape 
(p. 778). 

Egg single, dead white, smooth. 
2.35 X 1.60 (p. 786). 

Egg single, white: nest in bur- 
rows in the ground (p. 781). 



Ridgway. 



Egg single, ovate or elliptical 
ovate, white, sometimes speckled 
or sprinkled on large end with 
reddish brown (p. 50). 



Egg white, minutely sprinkled 
with brown on larger end (p. 53). 

Egg single, white (unless adventi- 
tiously stained) (p. 53). 



Passing next to the Auks (Alcje) we find Dr. Sharpe briefly referring 
to them as follows : " Egg single, white when in a burrow, otherwise 
of varied and beautiful color and markings when laid on a rock" 
(loc. cit., p. 71), and Coues states it differently, inasmuch as he says u eggs 
few or single, plain or variegated " (Key, p. 797.) Ridgway agrees with 
Sharpe, declaring the u egg single," though "variable as to form and 
color " (Manual, p. 8). ( 'ones, in describing the egg of Alle, again finds 
an exception to Sharpe's diagnosis, for he says the "single egg v laid 
by that bird is pale greenish-blue (Key, p. 811), but confirms his state- 
ment given above that Auks lay more than a single egg, in his descrip- 
tion of Uria grylle, and he remarks of that species, the Common Black 
Guillemot, that the " eggs, 2 to 3, sea-green, greenish-white or white, 
spotted and blotched most irregularly with blackish-brown, and with 
purplish shell markings" (Key, p. 815). According to this authority 
then an Auk may lay as many as 3 eggs, and another species may lay 
a blue unmarked egg. The Great Auk, probably now extinct, and one 
of the most ancient types of the suborder Alcje, laid, as we know, a 
single egg, which was a milk Avhite, spotted and blotched with dark 
brown. In form the eggs of Auks assume some modification of the 
ovate, but are never ellipsoidal or spheroidal. We take it then, judg- 
ing from such premises, that these birds stand much higher above the 
reptiles than do any of the Ostrich types. It would seem that this sub- 
ject will bear its share of thorough revision, for as I write these lines I 
ascertain through the kindness of Capt. Bendire, who has kindly given 
me access to the superb collection of birds' eggs of the V. 8. National 
Musem, that Alle alle normally lays '2 eggs, and that they are of a very 
pale greenish-blue, almost white. They are very uniform, both in form 
and color, and the collection contains eight or ten sets of them. This 



468 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



does not fully agree with either the statements of Coues or Ridgway; 
and we find similar discrepancies in the next suborder or the Loncii- 
pennes, as the subjoined table clearly shows. 

Oology of Longipennes. 



Species, etc. 



( iil|r>. 



Grinei il des< nption 



Xema sabinii 



Sterna antillaiem. 

Tern.) 



Tihynchops nigra 



(Least 



Eggs, generally :t. light-colored, 
with numerous heavy dark 
blotches: Niditication normally 

terrestrial. (Key, pp. 7:i3, 774.) 
Eggs 3, * brownish-olive. 

sparsely splashed with brown. 
1.75 X 1.25. (Key. p. 75;i.) 



Eggs, 1, 2, or 3 in number; ground 
color, varying from pale clear 
greenish to dull pale drab, 
speckled all over with small 
splashes, etc. 1.20tol.30 0.99. 
(Key. p. 767.) 

Eggs ■'< in number, pure white, 
spotted and splashed with dark 
browns and blackish, and ]>alc 
neutral tint. (Key, p. 773.) 



Ridgwaj . 



None given. (Manual, p. 20.) 



Eggs 2-5, * * deep olive 

(varying in intensity, however), 
rather indistinctly spotted or 
blotched with brown. 1.78X1.26. 

(Manual, p. 38.) 
Eggs 2-4, white, huffy white, or 
butt', spotted with brown or pur- 
plish gray. 1.28 X 0.91. (Man- 
ual, p, 46.') 



Eggs 2-5, white, buffy white, or 
pale buff, marked with large 
bold spots of rich dark or deep 
brown, and smaller, fainter spots 
of purplish gray. (Manual, p. 
40.) 



Gulls, Jaegers, Terns, and Skimmers (Rhynehops) all lay eggs of some 
form of the ovate or " short " ovate. Chionis minor, it maybe inter- 
esting to know in this connection, ''lays 2 or 3 eggs,"* which accord- 
ing to Dr. Kidder differ much in color, the general tint, however being 
a cafe au lait, irregularly blotched with several shades of dark sepia 
brown, chiefly near the larger end; but according to Dr. Sharpe the 
blotches are of a "purple" color (loc. cit., p.- 72). 

As we know, among the Limicolce, the eggs are generally four in 
number, with a ground color of some shade of buff or olive, more or 
less spotted and blotched, and of a pyriform shape. The markings 
are commonly of some shade of brown, almost black in some instances, 
or purplish. Coues, in his u Key," ignores the eggs of a great many of 
the limicoline birds, including such interesting forms as the Woodcock, 
Oyster Catchers, and Turnstones. The study of the oology of this 
group is important, for " Perhaps the greatest scientific triumph of 
oologists lies in their having fully appreciated the intimate alliance of 
the Limicolce (the great group of Snipes and Plovers), with the Gavice 
(the Gulls, Terns, and other birds more distantly connected with them), 
before it was recognized by any professed taxonomist, L'flerminier, 
whose researches have been much overlooked, excepted ; though to 
such an one was given the privilege of placing that affinity beyond 
cavil" (Huxley, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1867, pp. 426, 456-458; c/. Ibis, 1868, 
p. 92).t 

If for our present purposes we include in a suborder (Herodiones) 
the Ibises, the Storks, the Herons, Egrets, Bitterns, and their natural 



* Kidder. J. II: Bull. l T . S. Nat. Mus. No. 3, 1876, p, 
t Newton A., Art. " Birds," Encyl. Brit., p. 77;>. 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 4G9 

allies, we have an interesting group, presenting a number ofpeculiarities 
in their oology. Dr. Sharpe says of the Ibises ('• Platalece") that in 
Platdlea the eggs are "greenish-white" with spots, while in Ibis they 
are "green" (I. c, p. 75). Now, Cones makes the statement that the 
eggs of our American Spoonbill (Ajaja) are usually 3 in number, 
"nearly elliptical and white" {Key, p. 652), while Mr. Kidgway gives 
an entirely different description of them when he says that they are 
"ovate, white, or buffy white, blotched, spotted, and strained with 
various shades of brown" (Man., p. 123). 

A similar confusion of description is extended to the eggs of Ibises. 
Coues says the eggs of the Glossy Ibis (P.falcinellus) are ovoidal in 
shape and "greenish-blue" in color (Key, p. 041)), while Eidgway re- 
marks that both Glossy Ibis and White-faced Glossy Ibis lay eggs of a 
"plain greenish verditer blue" color (Manual, p. Ill); and Coues says 
the last-named species lays green eggs, 3 or 1, rarely 5 in number (Key, 
p. G51). Kidgway states that both the White Ibis and the Scarlet Ibis 
(G. alba and rubra) lay eggs that are "greenish-white, buffy, or pale 
brownish, stained, blotched, and spotted with brown" (Manual, p. 123). 
Coues describes the eggs (3 in number) of G. alba as being of a "dull, 
chalky white, blotched, and spotted with pale yellowish and dark red- 
ish-brown" (Key, p. 051). When Dr. Sharpe in his description said the 
eggs of the Ibis were "green," as cited above, he must have referred to 
the Glossy Ibis, and not the Sacred Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus and not 
Ibis (vthiopica), though he says "I6*s." Newton observes that the eggs 
of the Sacred Ibis " are of a dingy white, splashed, spotted, and speckled 
with reddish-brown;" and further remarks of the Glossy Ibis (P. falci- 
nellus) that " one of the most remarkable things about this species is that 
it lays eggs of a deep sea-green color, having wholly the character of 
heron's eggs, and it is noticed that it often breeds in company with 
herons, while the eggs of all other Ibises, whose eggs are known, re- 
semble those of the Sacred Ibis." (Art. " Ibis," Encyl. Brit., v. xn, 
p. 607.) 

Tantalus loculator, according to Coues, lays " eggs 2 to 3, elliptical 
in contour, shell rough, with flaky substance; color white (Key, p. 053), 
while Kidgway contends that the eggs of this bird are "usually more 
or less stained, in streaks, with pale brownish." (Manual, p. 125.) 

Mr. Kidgway says that all our North American Herons (Ardra, Xycti- 
corax) lay "plain, bluish-green eggs, varying in depth of color" (/. c, p. 
128); Sharpe remarks that the eggs of the Ardece are "generally blue" 
(/. c, p. 75); while Dr. Coues pretty thoroughly covers the ground for 
the Herons when he observes that they " are altricial, and generally 
nest in trees or bushes (where their insessorial feet enable them to 
perch with ease), in swampy or other places near the water, often in 
large communities, building a large, flat, rude structure of sticks. The 
eggs vary in number, coincidently, to some extent, with the size of the 
species; the larger Herons generally lay 2 or 3, the smaller kinds 5 or 
0; the eggs are somewhat elliptical in shape and usually of an unvarie- 



470 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



gated bluish or greenish shade." (Key, p. 05<>.) When we come to the 
Bitterns, however, a peculiar difference is to be noted, and the descrip- 
tion of their oological characters are set forth in the subjoined table: 

Eggs of Ameriva)i bitterns. 



Species. 



Coues. 



Ridgwav. 



Botaurus lentiginotus Nests on the ground; eggs, 3-5: 

brownish-drab, with a gray (not 
green) shade. 1.90 to 2.00 X 1.50. 
Key, p. 664.) 

B.exilis Eggs, 3-5, elliptical, white, with 

faintest tinge of bluish 1.92 X 
1.22 (I. e.,p. 665). 



Eggs pale olive-drab, orp ale isa- 
bella color. 1.88 X 1.43. (Man- 
ual, p. 126.) 

Eggs white, or greenish-white. 
1.20 X 0.93. (I. c, p. 127). 



If the Bitterns are to be considered as a subfamily of the Ardeidce 
(Ardew Sharpe), it can not be truly said that all the representatives of 
such a group lay blue eggs. 

More uniformity seems to exist among authors in their descriptions 
of the eggs of the Cranes, Bails, and their allies (suborder Paludi- 
col^:). Selecting the works I have thus far consulted, we find the fol- 
lowing characters variously given : 

Oology of the Paludicolas. 



Species, etc. 



Coues. 



Cranes {Grvs). . . 
Grits americana 



A ramus 



A. giganteus 
liallas 



Nest on the ground; "eggs few (p. 
666). 

Eggs 2 (or 3?) 3.75 X 2.65 light 
brownish-drab, rather sparsely 
marked, except at great end. with 
large irregular spots of dull choc 
olate brown, witli paler obscure 
shell - markings; shell rough, 
with numerous warty elevations 
andpunctulate (p. 667). 



Ridgw;.y. 



Porzana noveboracensis 



The eggs are numerous, generally 
variegated in color (p. 670). 



Eggs about 6, rich, warm butty - 
brown, marked at the great end 
with a cluster of reddish-choco- 
late dots and spots (p. 674). 



Ionornis martinica I Not recorded (p. 676) 



Gallinula galea ta 



Faliea americana . 



Nidiflcation exactly that of 
coot (p. 675). 



Eggs about a dozen, broad, shaped 
like an average hen's egg, clear 
clay color, uniformly and mi- 
nutely dotted with dark brown, 
tin spots usually mere pin-beads, 
sometimes large blotches. 1.75 
to 2.00 long by 1.20 to 1.35 broad 
(pp. 676,677;. 



Eggs pale olive or olive, bully, 
spotted with brown, reddish- 
brown, and purplish-gray. 

Size 4.04 X 2.50. 



fEggs 4-7 (sometimes as many as 

15? (2.32 X 1.70, pale dull buff. 

spotted, daubed, and stained 

with brown and purplish- gray 

\ (p. 136). 

Eggs 6-15, white, butty white, dull 
butf, or pale brownish-buff, rather 
sparingly spotted and speckled 
with rusty brown and purplish- 
gray (p. 137). 

Eggs 6or more, creamy-buff dense- 
ly sprinkled and speckled on 
larger end with rusty brown (p. 
140). 
Eggs about 11, light-burl' or pale 
olive butt', spotted longitudinally 
with ciunamon brown or rusty 
and purplish gray (p. 140). 
Eggs 6-10, pale cream color or 
creamy white, speckled (some- 
times," also, sparingly spotted), 
chiefly around larger end with 
brown and purplish gray (p. 141). 
Eggs 8-13; butt', pale buffj brown- 
ish-butt', or butty brown, sparse- 
ly spotted with dark brown (p. 
141). 
Eggs 6-12. pale dull buff, finely 
dotted or sprinkled with brown- 
ish - black and purplish - gray. 
1.91 X 1.32 (pp. 141. 142). 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 471 

I'Tom what this table shows it would appear thai in so far as their 
oology seems to indicate, the Cranes and Rails are not very intimately 
related and I iind Dr. Sharpe, in his Classification of Birds, placing 
them widely asunder, though he retains the "Arami" with his (Irci- 
formes (order XIX), and the •• Porfica" with the Kallieormes 
(Order X). Dr. Gadow retains them both in (rRripoRyiES. (P. Z. S. 
1892, pp. 244,245). 

Our next group is the Steganopodes, and I Iind considerable differ- 
ence of opinion exists not only as to the number of eggs normally laid 
by stegauopodous birds, but as to the general character of those eggs. 
Cones, in presenting the oology of the group, says: "The eggs are 
very few, frequently only one, usually if not always plain-colored, and 
inerusted with a peculiar white chalky substance" (p. 7I!>). 

THE STJLID.E. 

Dr. Sharpe Egg, 1 only, white, with a chalky texture (p. 77). 

Dr. Cones Egg, generally single, is plain in color, and inerusted 

with a calcareous matter (p. 720). 
(Sula bassana) Egg, single, pale, greenish-blue, flaked over with white 

chalky substance (p. 720). 
Mr. Ridgway (Sulida-) Eggs 1^2, elliptical or elongate-ovate, chalk-white 

superficially, hut beneath the calcareous crust pale 

greenish-blue. (p. 75). 

TIIF. PIIALACROCORACID.K. 

Dr. Sharpe (iu the Anhin- 

gidae) Eggs lour, white or light-blue, with a chalky texture 

(P. 77). 
Dr. Coues (not including the 

I'lotid(t') Eggs are commonly two or three, of elliptical form, and 

pale greenish color, overlaid with a whits chalky sub- 
stance (p 720). 
Mr. Ridgway (not including 

the Anhingida) Eggs 2-f>, elongate-ovate, pale bluish green, with a more 

or less continuous white chalky crust (p. 77). 
Dr. Coues (Plotus anhinga) . . Eggs 3-4, like cormorant eggs in color and texture, hut 

narrow and elongate (p. 730). 

THE PELECANID.E. 

Dr. Sharpe Egg, one only, white with a chalky texture (p. 77). 

Dr. Coues (P. fuseus) Eggs 2-3, white, chalky, elliptical (p. 723). 

Mr. Ridgway (Pelecanus) Eggs 1-1. oval, ovate, or elongo-ovate, with rongh 

chalky shell, pure white, but usualh much blood 

stained (p. 81). 

the ereoatid E ( Frigate birds i. 

1 >r. sharpe Egg only one, white, much smoother t ban those of Sula 

(p. 77). 
Dr. Coues (Tachypetes (Kjni- 

lus) Eggs 2-3 in number, are greenish-white, with a thick 

smooth shell. 2.90X2.00. (P. 731.) 
Mr. Rid »way (Fregata 

aquila) Kg.U's ( usually only 1), pure white, oval, ovate, or elongo- 

ovate. 2.70x1.83. (P. 83.) 



472 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Dr. Coues makes no record of the characters of the egg of Pha'tfbhon 
in Ms "Key" (pp. 731, 732), but Ridgway describes the egg of the 
genus (common char.) as " egg ovate, dilute claret-brown or whitish, 
speckled, sprinkled, spotted or blotched with deep claret-brown' 1 (p. 
74). Dr. Sharpe says of his Phaethontes, " Egg, one only j mottled 
reddish-brown" (p. 76). This is a curious departure from the steganop- 
odous birds generally, and so far as it goes, reminds us of the Longi- 
pennes in color, that is being spotted, but Steganopodes, in being but 
one of them laid. 

Prof. Newton says Sula bassana lays only a "single egg" with 
"a white shell of the same chalky character as a Comorant" (A. n., Art. 
"Gannet," Encyl. Brit., vol. x, p. 71), but that Pelecanus, or the Pelicans, 
lay "2 eggs commonly" (Art. " Pelican," loo. oit., vol. xvm, p. 475). Here 
certainly authors do differ most widely. Dr. Sharpe declaring that 
Pelicans lay but "one egg only." Prof. Newton says two, and Ridg- 
way says they lay as many as four. 

A similar diversity of opinion appears to be extended to the oology 
of the representatives of the next group of birds, the Odontogloss^e. 

Prof. Sharpe says the Flamingoes lay a " single white egg "(7. c, 
p. 70), while most other authorities claim the clutch consists of two 
for those birds. Ridgway says " eggs [not how many] are pure chalk- 
white and of an elongate ovate, or cylindrical ovate " form. (Manual 
p. 121.) Possibly he may mean two or more. 

Dr. Cones is positive about it when he observes for Phoenicopteriis 
ruber, " Eggs 2, 3.2.~>x 2.10, with thick shells, roughened with white 
flaky substance, blnish when this is scraped away" (p. 070). Flamin- 
goes' eggs have been known for a long time, and Newton, quoting 
Dampier, observes* that these birds •' never lay more than two eggs 
and seldom fewer." 

Coming next to the Swans, Geese, Ducks, and their allies (Anseres), 
the statements are more uniform in character, and the general one of Dr. 
Coues "the eggs are usually of some plain pale color, as greenish, drab, 
or creamy; the clutch varies in number, commonly ranging from half 
a dozen to a dozen and a half" (p. 081); or that of Dr. Sharpe, "eggs 
numerous, creamy buff, or greenish white, or pure white" (p. 70), will 
probably cover the ground. Our Swans lay from 2 to 5 eggs, rough- 
shelled, and of a dull white color (Coues), while among the Geese we find 
Philaete canagica lays 5 eggs, which are white, "with fine pale brown 
(lotting, giving a general pale dirty brown color," and Branta canaden- 
sis lays as many as ""5 to 9, ellipsoidal, smooth, pale dull greenish" 
(Cones, pp. 686-688). The number becomes still greater among the 
Ducks, and our American Wigeon (M. americana) often lays as 
many as 1 li eggs of a "dull pale buff" color, and the little Baffle-head 
(O. albeola) as many as 14, they being of an ellipsoidal form and of a 
"buft'y-drab tint (between greenish-olive and rich creamy-white" 

'Newton, A. : Art. " Flamingo," Encycl. Brit. vol. ix, p. 286, cites Dampier, New 
Voyage round the World, ed. 2, corrected, vol. i, p. 71, London, 1697. 



TOMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMKUICAN HIRDS. 



473 



(Cones, p. TOG). Eider Ducks also lay from 8 to 10 drab-colored eggs, 
and the Mergansers lay about an equal number — they being white in 
the Hooded Mergansers (/,. cucullatus) (Ridgway). Swans and (ieese, 
then, as a rule, lay the fewest number of eggs, and certain varieties of 
the smaller species of Ducks tlie greatest number, and at least one an- 
serine bird lays spotted eggs (P. canagica — the Emperor Goose). 

When we come to examine the oology of the great Columbo-gallina- 
ceous group, one well represented in the avifauna of the United States, 
it is possible to make the comparisons quite extensive, owing to Ben- 
dire's exhaustive labors, as seen in his fiim quarto volume already 
spoken of at the beginning of this paper. This 1 shall endeavor to do 
in a table, incorporating also the observations of Dr. Coues and Mr. 
Ridgway, and giving the majority of the species of the two suborders 
(GaUhuv and Columbce): 

Oology of American Gallince. 

[Pagination after Dr. Coues's name refers to his "Key" (rev. ed. 1884), after Ridgway'a to his, 
"Manual," and alter Bendire's his "Life Histories of North American Birds." Nomenclature of 
A. O. U. "Checklist."] 



Groups, species, etc. 



Colinus . 



Dr. Coues. 



Eidgwa-j 



Bend ire. 



Oreortypt pietus 



Callipepla squamata . . 



Eggs white, pyriform, 
numerous {Ortyx. p. 
589). 



Eggs colored: a mina- 
ture of the ruffled 
grouse's, only distin- 
guislied by smaller 
size (p. "i'JI). 

Eggs Kl-12-16, rather 
elliptical than coni- 
cal, white, minutely 
freckled with buff 
(p. 594). 



Gyrtonyx Not given 



Dendragapus obscurus. 



Bonasa umbelhis. 



Lagopus . 



Tympanuclius. 



Eggs creamy-buff, fine- 
ly freckled all over 
with chocolate-brown, 
seldom with any large 
spots (p. 579). 



Eggs very characteris- 
tic, from creamy white 
to creamy butt' usual- 
ly immaculate, some- 
times minutely dotted, 
etc. ; pyriform (p. 585). 

Eggs very heavily col- 
ored, with bold con- 
fluent blotches of in- 
tense burnt-sienna 
color, upon a more or 
less reddish -tinted 
buff ground (p. 586). 

Pale green ish-gr ay , 
with sometimes a 
glaucous bloom, usu- 
ally unmarked, some- 
times very minutely 
dotted with brown 
<p.584). 



Egg3 numerous (12 to 
upward of 20). pyri- 
form-ovate, w hit e, 
usually more or less 
stained (adventitious- 
ly?) with light brown 
(p. 187). 

Eggs cream color or 
creamy buff, varying 
in depth of color 
(p. 190). 

Eggs whit e, b u ff y 
white or pale buffy, 
visually more or less 
distinctly sprinkled or 
speckled with brown 
(p. 191). 

Egg (identification 
very doubtful) plain 
white (p. 194). 

Eggs 8-15, buffy or pale 
brownish, sprinkled, 
speckled, or more rare- 
ly spotted with dark 
brown (p. 194). 



Eggs 6-10 or more, buffy, 
usually plain, some- 
times speckled with 
brown (p. 197). 



Eggs about 10-16, more 
or less heavily spotted 
or marbled with dark 
brown or black on a 
buffy or light-rusty 
ground (p. 198). 

Eggs 8-12, light drab, 
olive, or dull buffy, 
etc. (p. 2021. 



Eggs varying from 12-18; 
in form from round 
ovate to subpyriform 
in shape ; are du'llwhite 
in color, slightly glos- 
sy, sometimes stained 
with grass or soil (pp. 
4,6). O. virginianus. 

Same as Ridgway. 
Shape short ovate; re- 
semble unmarked eggs 
of ruffed grouse (p. 14). 

Number ranges from 
9-16. Lusterless; pale 
buff; markings sharp, 
small, bro.vn to fawn, 
equally distributed 
(p. 21). 

Eggs 10; rather glossy, 
w bite; generally ovate 
in form (p. 40). 

Eggs average 8-12; 
ovate in shape; pale 
cream to cream buff; 
more or less spotted 
over entire surface 
with fine dots of chest- 
nut-brown (p. 49). 

Eggs 8-14, average 11, 
ovate or short ovate, 
milky white to pinkish 
buff, occasionally 
finely speckled, etc. 
(p. 63). 

Eggs average 11-16, ovate 

to elongO-OVate, cream 
color to reddish buff, 
some specimens heav- 
ily marked with con- 
tinent blotches and 
markings (p. 74). 



474 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 
Oology of American Gallinte — Continued. 



Groups, species, etc. 



Cent roce reus 



Meleagris 



Dr. ( !oues. 



Ortalis vetula maecalli. 



Essentially agrees with 
Ridgway. 



Not given.. 



Eggs generally 3, with 
a thick, granular, antl 
very hard shell, like a 
guinea fowl's, oldong, 
oval, buff-colored, or 
creamy white, large 
for the bird (p. 573). 



Ridgway. 



Eggs 6-15, varying from 
pale olive buff to light 
olive greenish, speck- 
led, sprinkled, or spot- 
ted with deep brown 
(p. 205). 

Eggs 10-18 or more, light 
butfy. thickly (but 
sometimes indistinct- 
ly) speckled or sprin- 
kled with brown (p. 
206). 
do. 



Bendire. 



Essentially ditto 



The ground color varies 
from palecreamy white 
to creamy buff (p. 116). 



Do. 



COLEMli.E 



Colvmba fasciata . . . Eggs 2, equal-ended, 
white, glistening (p. 
565). 

Ectopistes migratoHus . Eggs 1 or 2, equal-end- 
ed (p. 566). 

Zenaidura ! do 



Zenaida I Not given . 



For the family Colum- 
bidce. Eggs 2, plain 
white or buffv white 
(p. 210). 



Engi/ptila. 



Not given . 



Melopelia Eggs 2, white or creamy 

(p. 569). 



Columbigallina, Sea *- 

dafella. 
Geotrygon martinica. . 
Stamcenas 



Large for size of bird; 
- * * pointed ellip- 
tical ovate, pure white, 
glossy (p. 127). 

Eggs 1 or 2, elliptical 
oval, pure white, 
slightly glossy (p. 138). 

Eggs 1 or 2, pure white, 
oval or elliptical oval, 
or elliptical ovate (p. 
142). 

Eggs 2, pure white and 
oval, more rounded 
than pigeons usually 
are (p. 144). 

Eggs 2, elliptical oval, 
cream buff, glossy 
(p. 1451. 

Eggs 2, seldom 1 ; when 
Fresh a rich creamy 
tint; as incubation ad- 
vances fades to a dull 
dead white (p. 147). 

Eggs 2, white. 

Not known. 

Not positively known. 



As will be seen from this table, and as has long - been known, the 
eggs of the Fowl series differ very materially from those of the Colum- 
bine series of birds. In this connection I quote the following from Dr. 
Sharpe: "As far as their osteology goes the sand grouse are very 
columbine, and had they occurred in a fossil state only they Avould 
probably have been placed in the Columba*. * * * Nest none. 
Egos three, double-spotted, equally rounded at both ends. Nestling 
Galline. Young clothed with down like the young of a Partridge, but 
more variegated with white tufts." (Class of Birds, p. 09.) 

Among the Cathartidce and Raptorial birds (Aooipitres), exclusive of 
Striges, we find a great diversity of eggs, both in the matter of form and 
color. This seems to be especially true of the Hawks, Eagles, and their 
allies, where not only the same species may lay very different-appearing 
eggs, but in some cases the same individual may do likewise and variously 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 475 

tinted eggs be discovered in the same clutch. According to Behdire 
the California Vulture (Pseudogryphm) lays twoelong&te ovate, slightly 
glossy eggs of a uniform lighl grayish-green color and unspotted. 
They differ from the eggs of other Vultures in that they are "close 
grained and deeply pitted " (p. 1GL). Of the Turkey Vulture (Cathartes 
dura) he observes that "two eggs are usually laid, occasionally but 
one, and very rarely three. These are among the handsomest eggs of 
the Baptores. Their ground color is generally a light creamy tint, 
occasionally a dull, dead white, with a very faint trace of green in some- 
few instances. They are blotched, smeared, and spotted with various 
shades of reddish-brown, chocolate, and lavender, the markings usually 
predominating about tin; larger end of the egg, and very irregular in 
outline. In eggs belonging to the same set the markings frequently 
dift'er greatly in size and intensity, one being heavily marked and the 
other but slightly. Occasionally an egg is found which is entirely 
unspotted. The eggs also vary greatly in shape; the majority are 
elongate ovate, a few are ovate, others elliptical ovate, and now and 
then one is perfectly cylindrical ovate" (p. 164). Gatharista atrata, 
on the other hand, lays eggs which " are readily distinguished from 
those of the Turkey Vulture by their different ground color, somewhat 
larger size, and fewer markings as a rule. By far the greater num- 
ber of eggs are elongate ovate, a few are short ovate, others elliptical 
ovate. Their ground color is a pale gray-green; in none of the speci- 
mens before me can it be called a creamy white; the tint is perceptibly 
different. In an occasional specimen it may be called pale bluish- 
white, like well-watered milk, but the first-mentioned color predomi- 
nates. u The markings vary from chocolate to reddish-brown of differ- 
ent tints, and mixed among these, in about half of the specimens, 
are fouud shell markings of lilac and lavender; in an occasional speci- 
men these predominate over the first-mentioned tints. In the series 
before me all the markings are rather irregular in shape and are clus- 
tered about the larger end of the egg. They are usually large and 
seldom confluent. A few eggs are but slightly marked, and the spots 
are small and tine, but none are entirely unspotted." {Log. cit., pp. 107, 
108.) 

We now come to the Falconidce, a group of birds which are known, 
as a rule, to lay very beautiful eggs, and one has but to examine the 
richly colored and thoroughly accurate figures in Capt. Bendire's work 
to fully appreciate this tact. 

Kidgway observes that Elanus leucurus lays from 2 to .'1 eggs r but 
Bendire says the}* lay more than that commonly, and that the ''set varies 
from 3 to 5, generally 4." They are of great beauty, the " groundcolor 
is creamy white, and they are heavily marked over their entire surface 
with irregular continent blotches and smears of dark bloodied and 
claret brown, of different degrees of intensity, the smaller end being 
often the more heavily colored. But little of the ground color is visible 



476 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



in the majority of the specimens. Some sets are much lighter than 
others, possibly a second laying. The eggs are usually oval in shape." 
(Bendire.) Cones contends that one of these Kites may lay as many as 
6 eggs, and that in form they are " subspherical." (p. 525.) 

The question of the difference in egg markings of birds of the same 
species, or even, as I have said, in the eggs of the same individual, is 
one of great interest. From all that has been gathered it would appear 
to largely depend upon the physical condition of the parent bird at the 
time of depositing the egg. Captivity and fright have also their influ- 
ence, the secretions of the oviduct being often checked or even entirely 
arrested at such times. Age likewise has much to do with it, and the 
fact is now pretty well established that the older a bird is the more in- 
tensely will its eggs be colored, meaning, as I do, of course, those species 
which lay colored eggs, either tinted all over or with varied markings. 
Young birds of the first season lay lighter eggs in all respects, for ex- 
ample, than those individuals which have bred for many years. 

Another American Kite, Ictinia mississippiensis, lays, according to 
Bendire, usually but tiro eggs, or at the most 3. " They are 
rounded, ovate in shape, pale bluish white in color, and unspotted, or, 
as the rarest exception, show ' a few minute deeper blue shell markings.' 
(P. 179.) The eggs of this species were unknown to Dr. (-ones. They 
are frequently adventitiously stained. The Everglade Kite (Rostrha- 
mm 8ociobilis) also lays 2 or 3 eggs which are 'blotched, marbled, 
and stained with various shades of brown on a paler (sometimes bluish 
white) ground color.' 7 ' (Kidgway, p. 226.) In the Marsh Hawk we 
find a greater number of eggs laid (Circus /unison lux), as many as 6 
according to Bendire (p. 186), and 8 in Ridgway's account (p. 220). 
They are commonly plain, with a white or bluish white ground color, 
but may be blotched and spotted with light buff and brown markings. 
They assume some form of the ovate in contour, and are generally 
glossy-shelled and smooth. 

Oology of tin genua Aocipiter. 







Species. 


Ridgway. 


Bendire. ' 


4 






Eggs 2-5, white, greenish white, 
in- bluish white, usually very 
heavily blotched with "brown. 
1.47x"l. 16. (p. 227.) 

Usully plain bluish while, rarely 
faintly spotted with pale brown- 
ish. 1.93 1.50. (pp. 227. 228.) 

Eggs 2-3 ; white or glaucous white, 
sometimes very faintly marked 
with pale brownish. 2.31 X 1.74. 

(p. 228.) 


Eggs 4-5 (7 in one case), oval or 
short ovate ; pale bluish or green 
ish white, heavily blotched, 
spotted, and marbled with va- 
rious shades of brown. Some 
specimens ground color, hidden 
by confluent markings of cinna- 
mon rufous. The different pat- 
terns of marking are endless in 
variety (p. 191). 

Eggs 2-(i (varying with locality), 
pale bluish or greenish white 
(fades out in time). Many (50 
per cent) are variously spotted 
(p. 195). 

Eggs 2-5; pale bluish white in 
color and unspotted (p. 198). 








A 


at> leap 









COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 477 

From this it will be seen that the eggs of Hawks may vary greatly in 
the same genus, from an unspotted white egg (A. atricapillus) to a green- 
ish white egg, heavily marked all over (A. velox.). 

Harris's Hawk (Parabuteo) also lays three or four eggs, whieh are 
white or a buff white, and show more or fewer light brown markings. 
About half the eggs of this species also lack markings. The eggs of 
our common Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo borealis), which I have collected 
upon numerous occasions, vary •wonderfully in point of size. There are 
generally four to the clutch, and have a ground color of bluish white. 
Some have spots, others are irregularly marked with various brown- 
ish tints, which markings are of the greatest variety, no two specimens 
being exactly alike in pattern with respect to size, color, intensity, or 
distribution. Unspotted eggs occur in the same set with spotted ones. 
Bendire says of the Zone-tailed Hawk (Buteo abbreviatus) that its "eggs 
vary from 1 to 3 in number, usually 2, and seem to be for the most part 
unspotted. They are oblong oval in shape, pale bluish white in color, 
and the shell is rather smooth and finely granulated." (p. 233.) 

Hawks of the genus Falco as a rule lay dark-colored eggs, more or 
less covered all over with markings of various shades of brown. Falco 
mexicanns, however, lays from 2 to 5 creamy white eggs, more or less 
sprinkled over with madder-brown spots and markings. Other whit- 
ish-colored eggs of species of this genus may have the ground color al- 
most entirely hidden or obscured by the markings being so numerous 
and close together. The egg of the Aplomado Falcon is an instance of 
this kind. Audubon's Caracara ( Polyborus cheriway) also lays from 2 to 
3 eggs, which, according to Bendire, are "oval in shape; the ground 
color, when visible, which is not often the case, is creamy white, and in 
the majority of specimens is entirely hidden, the egg appearing to be 
of a uniform rufous cinnamon of different shades, some of the darker ap- 
proaching vinaceous rufous. This is again overlaid with irregular 
blotches and spots of dark chocolate, claret, brown, and burnt umber. 
Most of these eggs are heavily marked, a few, however, only slightly, 
and in these the markings are usually small and more regular in out- 
line, a few are unspotted, and although the ground color is not visible it 
is entirely overlaid with an even-colored cinnamon tint." (pp. 317, 318.) 
It would be impossible here, without far exceeding the limits of space, 
to begin to describe the eggs of the Osprey (Pandion). They are all 
wonderfully handsome, but vary in size, form, ground colors, and mark- 
ings to an endless degree. To view Capt. Bendire's beautifully-colored 
figures of them (PI. xi) one can hardly believe that they were laid by 
the same species of bird. Still the eggs of Polyborus shown upon the 
same plate vary quite as much and in the same particulars, and even 
more so in the matter of size. 

Eagles, as in the case of the Falcons and Hawks, lay but few eggs, 
rarely more than three, and they also range from a pure white egg 
{Halice'etus leucocephalus) tooneshowing upon its surface speckles, spots, 



478 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

blotches, and a clouding with brown and gray (Aquila). Bendire re- 
marks of the Harpy Eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia) that "I have been un- 
able to And a correct description of the egg of this species," and he 
supplies one from the specimens of that bird in the TJ. S. National 
Museum, and observes " the eggs are white, with yellowish-brown dots 
and washes, and about as long, though not quite as heavy, as a hen's 
egg. Of these eggs the Harpy lays 4 or 5, but never hatches more 
than 2, and, if the Indians can be believed, feeds the first two eaglets 
that make their appearance with the contents of the remainiug eggs" 
(p. 271). 

Coming next to the Psittact, I find that neither Cones nor Ridgway 
give in their works the number of eggs laid by our Carolina Paroquet 
(Gonurus caroUnensis); the former says "eggs whitish, 1.40 x 1.05, 
elliptical in shape, rough in texture" (p. 496), and the latter, "eggs 
1.39x1.07, ovate, short ovate, or rounded ovate, pure white" (p. 270). 
Dr.Sharpe says simply "egg white" for his Order Psittaciformes (p. 83). 
I am of the opinion that the fact is not exactly known, and the truth of 
the matter is, we stand sadly in need of a knowledge of much in the 
biology of this entire and large group of most interesting birds. 

Coccyges : The parasitic habits of the European Cuckoo (C. canorus) 
are too well known to require comment here, and Coues observes that 
"the American Cuckoos have been declared free of suspicion of such 
domestic irregularities; but, though pretty well behaved, their record 
is not quite clean: they do sometimes slip into the wrong nest. The 
curious infelicity seems to be connected in some way with the inability 
of the female to complete her clutch of eggs with the rapidity and regu- 
larity usual among birds, and so incubate them in one batch. The 
nests of our species of Coccygus commonly contain young by the time 
the last egg of the lot is laid " (p. 471). Such habits, however, are de- 
parted from by the genus Crotophaga, birds which build a large nest for 
the use of a number of the species to lay in in common. In Geococeyx 
and Coccygus, species that lay numerous eggs at irregular intervals, we 
find often a fresh egg just laid and perhaps a nestling half as large as 
the parent bird, with an intermediate gradation of eggs in various 
stages of incubation and young grading up to the size of the one just 
mentioned. 

Crotophaga ani may lay as many as 8 eggs, which according to Coues 
are "greenish" and to Ridgway a "dull glaucous-blue," but they are 
always more or less overlaid with a white substance chalky in nature, 
that in the recently laid egg easily washes off. Our Ground Cuckoo 
(Geococeyx) also lays white eggs or of a pale buff- white, and there may 
be as many as a dozen deposited before the bird completes her irregu- 
larly lain clutch. Opinions do not agree as to the number of eggs laid 
by our common Yellow-billed Cuckoo (0. americanus), Dr. Coues stating 
" eggs 4 to 8, pale greenish" (p. 476), and Ridgway, " eggs 2 to 4, dull 
pale glaucous-green or glaucous-white" (p. 273). And the latter au- 
thority says of the Black-billed Cuckoo (C\ erytliroplithalmus "eggs 2 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 479 

to 4, deep glaucous-green or verditer-blue" (p. 274). The present writer 
discovered the uest of oue of this latter species many years ago in ^New 
England, and it had four eggs in and t/co nestlings. It was a very 
slight affair for a nest, loosely put together with scanty material of 
twigs, etc., and placed upon the horizontal bough of ;i small apple tree. 

I have never seen the eggs of any of the Trogones, and personally 
know nothing of the nesting of our United States species T. ambiguus. 
Prof. Newton, however, remarks, "so- far as has been observed, the 
nidification of these birds is in holes in trees, wherein are laid without 
any bedding 2 roundish eggs, generally white, but certainly in one 
species (Quezal) tinted with bluish-green" (Art. "Trogon," Encycl. 
Brit., vol. xxin, p. 584). Doctor Sharpe makes a like statement, but 
no exceptions thereto. "Nest in hole of tree, eggs white" (Class, of 
Birds, p. 82). 

We have two species of Kingfishers (Alcyones) in our avifauna, 
Cerylc ahyon and Ceryle cabanisi. Either species usually lay six pure 
white eggs of an ovate or oval form. They are characterized by 
having smooth, glossy shells, which in the case of the last named 
species is very thin and brittle, having the appearance of being com- 
posed of porcelain. Such glossy and glassy, pure, white eggs are 
also laid by every species of our Woodpeckers (Pici), and those birds 
are very numerous in our avifauna — nearly forty of them. Ridgway 
in his "Manual" barely mentions the eggs of these birds, and Coues 
simply says that inform they are "rounded" (p. 471)). Most all the 
species lay to the clutch, but in Dryobates villosus and Colaptes 7 are 
sometimes taken. Probably in nearly all the species the eggs are more 
or less of an oval or ovate shape; all that I have ever collected I have 
found to be so. 

In noticing the eggs of our Owls (Striges), I will rely almost entirely 
upon Bendire's work, so frequently quoted in this article. 

Oology of Owls. 

Asio wilsonianus Eggs 3-6 (sometimes 7); pure white; oval; shell 

smooth, finely granulated and rather glossy. 

Asio accipitrinus Eggs 4-7 (rarely more) ; white; oval to elliptical 

ovate ; sometimes nearly equally pointed at each end. 

Syrnium nebulosum Eggs 2-4 (4 are rare) ; pure white; not very glossy; 

oval or rounded oval. 

Scotiaptex cinerea Eggs 2-4 ; dull white ; broad elliptical oval. 

Nyctala t. richardsom E»gs3-7; pure white; oval; almost lnsterless. 

Mcgascopn asio Eggs 4-5 (rarely 7 or more); pure white; oval or 

nearly globular; moderately glossy. 

Megascopn ftammeolus Eggs 3-4; white, with a faint creamy tint; oval; 

shell strong, finely granulated ; slightly glossy. 

Bubo Virginia mix Eggs 2-3; white; little or no gloss; rounded oval; 

shell thick, coarsely granulated. 

Xycfea nyctea Eggs 3-10 (usually 5-7) ; white, creamy tint in some 

cases; oblong oval in shape; no luster; a few cor- 
rugated lines starting a trifle beyond the center of 
the egg and run to the longer axis in most specimens. 



480 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Oology of owls — Continued. 

Surnia ulula Eggs 5-8 ; white ; smooth ; glossy. 

Surniau. caparoch Eggs 3-7; white; oval or oblong oval; somewhat 

glossy; smooth, hue grained. 

Speotyto cunicularia hypogwa Eggs 6-11; (not rare to find 11); pure white when 

washed ; rounded ovate and very glossy ; shell close- 
grained and rather smooth. 

Glaucidium gnoma Eggs 4 ? 

G. g. californieum Eggs 3-1 ; dull milky white, with a faint creamy tint ; 

lusterless; peculiarly pitted with punctures; very 
thin shells, almost semitranslucent. 

G, phaltenoides Eggs 4 ; oval ; compared with the last species shells 

much thicker; coarsely granulated ; no pittings or 
punctures, but on the contary show a few slight 
protuberances on their surfaces. 

Micropallas whitneyi Eggs 2-5 ; commonly 3 ; pure white ; oval ; finely granu- 
lated and rather glossy. 

From this table it will bo seen that our largest Owls lay both the least 
number (Bubo) as well as nearly the greatest number (Nyctea) of eggs, 
the greatest number, however, probably being laid by the Burrowing 
Owls (Speotyto). In other words, it maybe tersely said that our Striges 
lay from two to a dozen white, oval eggs, varying somewhat with the 
species. 

An equally useful table for the oology of our Caprimulgi can be 
compiled from Dr. Coues's "Key, 1 ' and his descriptions of the eggs of 
those birds is quite full. 

The following is what he records upon the subject: 

Oology of X. American Caprimulgi. 

Antro8tomii8 carolinensis Eggs 2; 1.45 X 1.05; heavily marked in intricate pat- 
tern with browns and neutral tints. 

A. vociferus Eggs 2 ; 1.25 X 0.90 ; creamy white ; heavily marked 

with browns and neutral tints. 

Phalceonoptilus nuttalli Eggs 2; 1.05 X 0.80; elliptical; white. 

Nyctidromus albicollis Eggs 2; 1.25 X 0.92; creamy buff, spotted with pinkish 

brown and lilac. 

Chordeiles virginianus Eggs 2; elliptical; 1.52 X 0.87; finely variegated with 

stone-gray and other neutral tints, over which is 
scratched and pitted dark olive-gray; but the pat- 
tern and tints are very variable. 

C. texensis Eggs 2 ; heavily veined and marbled ; 1.20 X 0.87. 

The most remarkable exception, if it be true, among these birds, 
then, is the elliptical white egg of Phalceonoptilus. For the Caprimulgi 
as a group, Dr. Sharpe says : " Eggs white, with scroll-like markings 
and spots" (p. 18), and Ridgway, for the family Caprimulgidce, "Eggs 
deposited on bare ground, dead leaves, gravel, or sand, 2 broadly 
elliptical — oval, plain or spotted" (Manual, p. 297), and of Phalceonoptilus 
nuttallif "0.99 x 0.78, plain dead white, usually with a faint buffy or 
pinkish tinge" (p. 299). This latter author's descriptions of the eggs of 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 



481 



our Goatsuckers differ quite materially from those of l>r. Goues, which 
is probably due to the fact that the eggs of the several species them 
selves differ to such a marked degree both in color, form, and markings. 

According to Newton, "The Guacharo (Steatomis) is said to build 
a howl like nest of clay, in which it lays 2 to 1 white eggs, with a 
smooth but lusterless surface, resembling those of some Owls." (Art. 
"Guacharo," Encycl. Brit. 9th ed. Vol. \\i. p. 227.) And we may add, 
this is not the only character we know of (hat indicates caprimulgo- 
strigine affinity. 

The Humming-birds need not detain us long; and it is very remarka- 
ble that for so large a, group there is such complete uniformity, so far 
as we are at present aware, in their oology. Tersely it may be said 
that the Trochili all lay tiro pure white eggs, large for the bird in any 
species, and generally of an elliptical-oval, or elliptical-ovate form. 
These eggs remind me somewhat of the eggs of our smaller existing 
lizards. 

In another suborder, the Cypseli we are still ignorant of the charac- 
ter of the eggs of several of the species, but those of Chcetura pelagica 
are well known. In that species from 4 to 5 are usually in a set. 
They are pure white, and narrowly elliptical in shape. The eggs of 
Cypscloide* niger have as yet not been collected by any naturalist that 
I am aware. The eggs, too, of Micropus melanoleucm are unknown to 
me. 

Lastly we come to that great host of birds included in the Passeees, 
and here I propose to contrast the descriptions of Cones and Ridgway, 
confining myself principally to the various genera, occasionally only 
to the family where the eggs of the birds in the latter are very similar. 
Where birds of the same group differ to any marked degree such dif- 
ferences will be noted. Where the eggs of others are unknown the 
fact will also be shown; and I trust that such a table, condensed and 
compared, although it may add nothing that is new to the subject, 
will yet prove to be useful to the working oologist. 

Oology of North American Paaseres. 



Families, genera, etc. 



< ' >s. 



Ridgway. 



1. TYRANMIi.K. 

Milvulus forfieatus . . . 

'I'u i <i a nun tyrannus . . 

Pitangus derbianus . . . 



Eggs 4-5; white, boldly blotched 
with reddish on the surface, and 
lilac shell-spots. 

Eggs usually 4 f>. white, rosy, or 
creamy, variously spotted or 
blotched in bold pattern with 
reddish and darker brown sur- 
face spots and lilac shell-mark- 
ings. 

Not given 



II. Mis. 114, pt. 



-31 



Eggs 3-5; .88. XG6: pure white 
or creamy white, boldly but spar- 
ingly spotted witli rich madder- 
brown and lilac-gray. 

Eggs3 5; white, spotted with rich 
madder-brown or chestnut, and 
lilac-gray. [ Eggs of this genus 
are particularly handsome ob- 
jects.—!;, w. s'.| 

Eggs 3-5, huffy white, speckled 
ami spotted (the markings mostly 
longitudinal), chiefly on larger 
end, with madder-brown and 
purplish gray. 



482 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 
Oology of North American Passeres — Continued.. 



Families, genera, etc. 



1. TYRANNID.3E— continued. 



Myiozetetex texensis 

Myiodynastes luteiventris 
Myiarchus 



Sayomis — 
Contopus - . . 
Empidonaz . 



Not given 

Not given 

Eggs scratched and snarled, hut 
chiefly scrawled lengthwise with 
dark brown in close and intri- 
cate pattern. 



Eggs, white (s parse h dotti 
fusca). 



(1; S. 



Eggs spotted 



Pyrocephalus r. mexicanus 



Omithion imberbe. . . 

2. OSCINES. 

Laniidce 

Ampelidce 



Hirundinidce . 



Alaudidce — 
Otocoris. 



Gerthiidce . 



Motadllidce — 
Motacilla 



Sylviidce — 
Keyulvn. 



Eggs spotted (/'.'. flaviventrit) or 

white (E. minimus) ; also E. ob- 
seurus, where they are 3-4 and 
large. 



Not given 



Nest and eggs unknown . 



Eggs 4-6; speckled . 



Eggs spotted; (narrow and elon 
gate; 3-6. A. cedrorum). 



Eggs pure white, unmarked : hi<l<> 
proene bicolor, Tachycineta tha- 
lasiina, Gotile riparia, Stelgidop- 
teryx serripennis, Progne subis. 
Eggs thickly speckled ; Hirundo 
horreorum, Petrochelidon luni- 
front. 

Eggs very variable iii tone, but 
always profusely and heavily 
marked with brownish-gray, or 
dark stone-gray, upon a grayish 
or greenish white ground'; in 
some eases the whole surface 
nearly uniform. 

Lay numerous white speckled 
eggs (p. 272). 



[Tireo.) Eggs white, spotted (p 

330). 



l'oliiijitiltl 

Ccerebidce 



Eggs 4-ti, very dark colored 



Eggs 6-10; fully speckled 



Eggs 4-5; fully speckled 
Not given 



Ridgway. 



Eggs unknown. 

Not given. 

Eggs 3-6, curiously marked with 
line penlines ami intricate pen- 
cilings of black anil various 
shades of rich purplish-brown 
over a hutfy or creamy brown. 

Eggs 3-6. pure white, sometimes 
finely but sparsely speckled 
round larger end with dark 
brownish. 

Eggs 2-4, pale cream-color, hand- 
somely wreathed round larger 
end with spots of rich brown and 
lilac-gray or lavender. 

Descriptions of eggs of the diffi- 
cult genus practically agree 
with those given by Dr. Cones: 
E. acadious eggs 2-4; creamy 
white, spotted chiefly on larger 
end. 

Eggs 2-4, pale olive bull', or dull 
Duffy (rarely nearly white), 
boldly and heavily spotted, 
chiefly in wreaths around larger 
end or near middle, with dark 
vandyke-brown or brownish- 
black and purplish-gray. 

Not given. 



Eggs 4-7, dull whitish, spotted 
with light brown or olive. 

Eggs 3-5, pale dull bluish or pale 
purplish-gray, spotted and dot ted 
with dark brown, black and 
purplish. 

Agrees with Cones. 



Eggs 3-5, pale olive, pale dull 
burly, dull olive, wnitish, etc.; 
finely but usually densely 
speckled or sprinkled with 
olive brown (rarely pale cinna- 
mon-buff, speckled with cinna- 
mon rusty). 

Eggs 5-0. white or creamy white, 
speckled or spotted, chiefly on 
or round the larger end. with 
reddish-brown. 

Eggs white, usually more or less 
dotted, or sparsely speckled 
round larger end with brown or 
blackish. 

Eggs 3-5, whitish, thickly speckled 

with brown. 
Eggs with pale ground color, but 

the dense speckling of brown 

gives nearly a uniform brown to 

the whole shell. 

Eggs 5-10, whitish or buffy, mi- 
nutely freckled with brown 
(sometimes apparently immacu- 
late); 

(Certhiola.) Eggs 2-4, white or 
buffy white, finely speckled or 
sprinkled chiefly on larger end 
with umber brown. 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 483 
Oology of North American Passeres — Continued. 




J. oscines — continued. 
Mniotiltidoe 



Siurus 



Tcteria 

CinclidcB 

Troglodytidce 



(1) Telmatodytes palustrus . 



(2) Salpinctes ohsoletus. 



(3) Cistothorus atellaris 

MIMING. 
Oreoscoptes 



Mimus. 



Galeoscoptes 

Harporhynchus . 

H. rnfus 

H. crissalis 



The American warblers lay from 3-7 cgg«, some 3-4, etc. As a rule, 
they are white, or creamy white, or pale greenish or bluish white, 
or grayish, or even pinkish. They arc more or less spotted, etc., 
chiefly round the larger enu, with various shades of brown or lilac, 
or roan black, less commonly speckled all over. Species very numer- 
ous, and the eggs varying for each species. 

i Eggs 3-6, pure white or creamy 

white, spotted with reddish- 
brown and lilac-gray. 
Egg 3-5, white and speckled with brown. 

Eggs, about 5, pure white | Eggs 3-5, plain pure white. 

Eggs of three patterns, (1) those densely spotted; (2) those sparsely 
spotted, and (3) those pure white. Generally numerous, some species 
laying as many as 10. I give a species of each from Coues, using the 
nomenclature of his "Key." 
Eggs 0-10, very dark colored, being 
so thickly dotted with chocolate- 
brown as to appear almost uni- 
formly of this color. 



Eggs, 5-8; crystalline whiteness, 
sparsely sprinkled with reddish- 
brown dots. 

Eggs white 



Eggs4, light greenish-blue, heavily 
marked with brown and neutral 
tint. 

Eggs 4-0, oluish-green, heavily 
speckled and freckled with sev- 
eral brownish shades. 

Eggs 4-6, deep greenish-blue, not 
spotted. 



Turd idee: 

My (ideates. 



Tardus 

T. mustelinus 
T. alicice , 



Merula 

Cyanecula suecica . 



S-xicola cenanthe 

Sialia 



Paridee : 
Pants 



Psaltriparus . 
Auriparus. .. 



Eggs 4-6, whitish or greenish, 

speckled with brown. 
Eggs, usually 2, emerald green, 

unspotted. (The exception for 

the genus.) 

Eggs, 4; bluish-white, freckled 
with reddish-brown. 



Like Merula migratoria. 



Eggs, 4-7; greenish-blue without 
spots. 



Tanagrid.ee. 
Evphonia . 



Eggs, 6-8: white fully sprinkled 

with reddish-brown. 
Eggs, 6-9; white, unmarked. 
Eggs, 4-6; pale bluish, speckled 

with brown. 
Dull greenish-blue, fully spotted 

with brown and lilac. 



(Campylorhy'nchvs.) Eggs with 
the. ground color whitish, 
creamy white, or salmon buff 
nearly masked by dense sprink- 
ling of reddish-brown, general 
hue light brownish-pink. 



Eggs very variable in coloration, 
but usually speckled. 



Eggs plain pale greenish-blue. 



Eggs, 3-0; whitish, speckled with 
reddish-brown. 

Eggs, 2-5; plain greenish-blue. 

Eggs greenish-blue, spotted with 
rusty brown. 

Eggs, 3-5 ; plain bluish (veryrarely 
speckled with brown). 

Eggs, 3-5 ; pale olive, olive-green- 
ish or brownish, deeper on or 
around larger end (sometimes 
uniform). 

Eggs 3-0 plain, pale greenish-blue. 

Eggs, 4-7; plain, pale greenish- 
blue (very rarely white). 

(White, usually speckled). 

(Pure white). 

(Chiefly around larger end). 

(Piranga): 3-5, bluish or green- 
ish, spotted with brown. 

Eggs creamy-white, with a few 
scattered 'spots and blotches, 
principally at the larger end, of 
two shades of brown. 



484 



KEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Oology of North American Pa8seres : — Continued. 

FRINGILLIDiE. 

Note.— There are upwards of 150 species of Finches, Sparrows, Grosbeaks, Cross-bills, etc., in the 
United States avifauna, and they lay a great variety of eggs, and it would be quite impracticable to 
describe or classify even a part of them here, so I resort to the plan of only presenting the character- 
istic types. Of these eggs many are spotted, with a ground color of white, various" shades of pale 
green and blue, and the spotting near the larger end in a wreath. White eggs, sparsely spotted, are 
not common, and in my selections I have endeavored to show the differences that exist. 



Families, genera, etc. 



Coues. 



Pinicola enucleator 

Leucosticte 

Spinus tristis 



Eggs 4; greenish-blue, spotted and 
blotched with dark brown and 
lilac shell-spots. 

Eggs 3-6; pure white 

Eggs 4-fl; bluish-white, normally 
unmarked. 



Eidgway. 



Eggs pure white. 



Note.— In the numerous species of the genera Pooecetes, Ammodramus, Melospiza, Junco, Garpodacus. 
Spizella, Loxia, Zonotrichia, Ghondestes (4-7, white, with zigzag lines, as in some Iteridce), Passeiella, 
Calcarius, Pipilo, and others, the eggs, although showing almost an infinite variety of patterns, all 
have the common character of markings upon them of some kind or other. They constitute the great 
bulk of United States "fringilline " birds. Exceptions are seen in the other genera as given below. 



Families, genera, etc. 


Coues. 


Ridgway. 




Eggs 4-5, whitisu, unmarked 

Eggs greenish, profusely spotted, 
etc. 


Eggs plain greenish or bluish 

white. 
Eggs speckled with brown. 





Note. — The case of Amphhpiza is one of a plain egg and a marked one in the same genus of birds. 



Families, genera, etc. 


Coues. 


Eidgway. 






Eggs 3-5, plain white or bluish - 

white. 
Eggs 2-4, plain pure white. 
Nest and eggs not distinguishable 

with certainty from those of 

Spiza americana. 




Eggs pure white, unmarked 

Eggs 4-5, pale bluish-green, nor- 
mally unmarked, occasionally 
speckled. 







Note.— The so-called " Grosbeaks " of the genera Habia, Oardihalis, PyrrhtUoxia all lay handsomely 
marked eggs, but in the genus Guiraca the eggs are a "pale greenish-blue or bluish- white," and not 
marked. In Passerina (some of the species (2*. amcena) the eggs are also plain. 



Families, genera, etc. 



Coues. 



Eidgway. 



Dolichonyx 



Moloth rus (parasitic 
Agelceus 

Xanthocephalcw 

Sturnella 

Icterus — 

/. galbula 



Eggs 4-6, stone-gray, dotted, mot- 
tled, and clouded with dark 
brown. 



Eggs white, fully speckled, and 
dashed with browns and neutral 
tints. 

Eggs 4-0; pale blue, fantastically 
dotted, blotched, clouded, anil 
scrawled over with dark or even 
blackish-brown and paler or 
plurplish shell marks. 

Eggs :s-ti; gray-green spotted, as 
in Scolecophagus, with reddish- 
brown, not scrawled as in Age- 
lceus. 

Eggs 4-6; crystal white, speckled 
with reddish and purplish (very 
variable). 

Eggs 4-6; shaded white, irregu- 
larly spotted, blotched, clouded, 
and especially scrawled with 
blackish-brown, etc., and shell 
markings. 



Eggs 2-5, dull white or brownish. 
white, heavily spotted or 
blotched with "vandyke-brown- 
usually with a few fine lines or 
irregular markings of blackish. 
Dull white, greenish-white or 
brownish-white, speckled or spot- 
ted more or less densely with brown. 
Agrees with Coues. 



M Occasionally pen-lined.) 

Eggs 3.-6; white, speckled with 
reddish - brown, blackish - brown, 
and lilac-gray. 

Description practically agrees. 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 485 



Oology of North American Passeres — Continued. 

CORVIIi-K. 

Note. Iii the genua Quiscalus the eggs are also peculiarly marked, as in the( Irioles, but not so with 

Scolecophagus. 



Families, genera, etc. 



Pica 

Oyanocitta — 

C. cristata. . . . 

Aphelocoma — 
A . woodhousei 



Xanthoma — 
X. Ivxuota 



Perisoreus — 

J', canadensis . 



Corvus (common char.) 



Picicorvus — 

P. columbianun 



Cyanocephalus — 
C. cyanocephalus. 



Cones. 



JJidgway. 



Eggs 6-9; pale drab, dotted, dashed. 
ami blotched with purplish-brown. 

Eggs5-6, broad, drab-colored, with 

brow n spots. 



Not specifically given. 



Eggs 3-4, greenish-drab, marked as 
usual with browns. 



Eggs 3-4, yellowish-gray or pale 
green, finely dotted and blotched J 
with brown and slate or laven- 
der, especially about the larger 
end: others more uniformly and 
largely blotched ; variation wide. I 
as in other jays. 

(C. corax.) Eggs 4-S, oftener 4-5, j 
greenish, dotted, blotched and 
clouded with neutral tints, pur- 
plish and blackish brown. 



Eggs light grayish-green, speckled 
and blotched with grayish-brown 
and lilac, chiefly about the larger 
end. 

Eggs 3-4, greenish-white, pro- 
fusely spotted with light brown 

and purplish. 



Eggs 3-10; pale olive-butty, dull 
white, or very pale greenish, vari- 
ously marked with brown. 

Eggs (3-5?), pale olive, isabella- 
color, greenish or bully, rather 
spareeh spotted or speckled 
with brown. 

Eggs 3-6, pale green, rather 
sparcely marked with very dis- 
tinct dots or small spots of deep 
madder-brown. 

Eggs 2-4, pale buff or pale grayish- 
huff, thickly speckled with 
umber-brown. 

Eggs dull white, drab-white, or 
very pale grayish buff, speckled 
with hair-brown or grayish- 
brown or lilac-gray. 



Eggs 2-7. bluish-green, pale olive 
or olive, spotted or dashed (or 
both) with olive-brown (some- 
times nearly uniform olive from 
density of markings). 

Eggs dull white, sparingly 
speckled, chiefly on larger end 
with brown and purplish-gray. 



Eggs 3-5, pale greenish-blue or 
greenish-white, thickly but finely 
speckled with olive-brown. 



STURNIDJE. 



,5'. vulgaris Not given. 



Egg 4-7, plain pale greenish-blue 
or bluish-white. 



This article would not be complete did I not add to it some of the 
excellent observations of Prof. Alfred Newton and others relative to 
the eggs of birds. After I have done this, I will draw up my " Con- 
chiding remarks." Newton briefly gives us some excellent observa- 
tions upon the "forms of the markings" on birds' eggs, and these it 
is not difficult to see "have been deposited on the shell a short time 
before its exclusion, are primarily and normally circular, for hardly any 
egg that bears markings at all does not exhibit some spots of that form, 
but that in the progress of the eggs through that part of the oviduct 
in which the coloring matter is laid on many of them became smeared, 
blotched, or protracted in some particular direction. The circular spots 
thus betoken the deposition of the pigment while the egg is at rest, the 
blurred markings show its deposition while the egg is in motion, and 
this motion would seem often to be at once onward and rotatory, as in- 



48o" REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

dicated by the spiral markings not uncommonly observable in the eggs 
of some birds of prey and others — the larger end of tin 1 egix (when the 
ends diner in form) making way for the smaller."* 

"At the same time the eggs of a great number of birds have, besides 
these last and superimposed markings, more deeply seated stains, gen- 
erally of a paler and often of an altogether different hue, and these are 
evidently due to some earlier dyeing process. The peculiar tint of the 
ground color, though commonly superficial, if not actually congenital 
with the formation of the shell, would appear to be diffused soon after." 
(Art. "Birds," Encycl. Brit,, 9th ed., Vol. in, p. 773.) This. distin- 
guished ornithologist also invites attention to the fact that "the size 
of eggs is generally but not at all constantly in proportion to that of 
the parent. The Guillemot (Alca troile) and the Raven (Corvns corax) 
are themselves of about equal size, Their eggs vary as ten to one." 
(Loc. cit., p. 775.) Many other examples of this among our Ameriean 
avifauna will be recalled by the thoughtful oologist. Reasons for these 
discrepancies are not far to seek, i. e., nestling Ravens lay long in the 
nest after birth, whereas young Guillemots are larger and better devel- 
oped at the time of hatching. Then the number of eggs laid by a 
Raven may be as many as 8 (see table), and, as we know, the Guillemot 
lays but one, giving either bird about the same egg surface to cover 
during incubation. 

From my reading of avian oologieal works I And that certain expla- 
nations, or partial explanations have been put forth as the reasons for 
the variations in the colors of the shells of birds' eggs. I formulate 
these as follows : 

BIOLOGICAL LAWS EXPLANATORY OF THE VARIATION IN COLOR OF 
THE SHELLS OF EGGS IN THE CLASS AVES. 

<1. In many instances the general color and markings art 1 in conform- 
ity with the law of protective coloration. 

2. Where both sexes are more or less brilliantly colored the eggs 
are generally laid where they are not exposed to view, and where the 
parent hatching them is also concealed to a greater or less extent. 
This is effected by either the form of nest constructed or by the eggs 
being laid in burrows or hollow trees. The eggs of such birds are, as 
a rule, not handsomely marked, or often only white. Otherwise in 
general, irrespective of plumage, birds that lay in such places as have 
just been mentioned usually lay white eggs. 

*That the larger end is protruded first was found on actual experiment by Mr. 
Bartlett, superintendent of tlie gardens of the Zoological Society, to be the case 
commonly, but as an accident the position may be sometimes reversed, and this will 
most likely account for the occasional deposition of markings on the smaller instead 
of the larger end, as not unfrequently shown in'eggs of the Sparrow Hawk (Accipiter 
tiisns). The head of the chick is always found at the larger end. [For a beautiful 
example of the heavy deposition of nearly all the color at the small end of the egg, 
see the one figured by Beudire ofAccipiter rclox, PI. v, Fig. 17. — it. w. s.] 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 487 

3. Where the general tone of the plumage of the incubating parent 
is- in harmony with its environment, the eggs, as a rule, are laid in 
open nests or places where they are fully exposed to view. Such eggs 
are frequently very handsomely tinted and marked, or the reverse may 
he the ease. 

4. When the female alone incubates, and is of dull or somber plum- 
age, the male bird brilliantly feathered, the third law, as a ride, is op- 
erative. 

5. Frequently birds that lay eggs in open and exposed places, as di- 
rectly on the ground, rock, or sand, without any apology for a nest, 
their eggs are either tinted, or colored and marked, or both, so as to 
be in harmony with their surroundings. 

(>. It is probable that the earliest forms of birds laid white, ellip- 
soidal eggs, varying in number to the clutch from one to many. Pos- 
sibly in some of the lower types of existing birds such an ancestral 
trait has persisted. 

7. In certain instances where birds lay exposed to view either white 
or light tinted eggs, or those not otherwise protectively colored, they 
have the habit of covering the clutch over with leaves, etc., when, for 
any purpose, the incubating parent temporarily quits the uest. 

8. Birds, irrespective of the character of the coloration of their 
plumage, which habitually lay in inaccessible places, their eggs are often 
either white or light-tinted and exposed to view. 

9. Both the age of the bird and the physical condition of its consti- 
tution at the time of laying an egg have their influence upon the color- 
ation of its shell. Changes in the constitution may be due to external 
causes, as fright, etc., or to internal causes, as disease, etc. The rich- 
est colored eggs of any species (that lay other eggs than white ones) 
are laid by that species at its prime. 

10. The positions of the egg as it passes down the oviduct, as well as 
its motions, effect the pattern of its markings. 

CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

In the light of what has been presented in this paper we can now 
briefly review some of the oological peculiarities of the birds of Xorth 
America. 

Many Grebes (Podicipoidea) have the habit of covering over their 
numerous white eggs with bits of vegetation when the parent tempo 
rarily quits the nest (seventh law), but whether the Loons ( Urinatoroidea) 
ever resort to this means of protection 1 am not at present informed, 
though I am inclined to think they do not. The eggs of the latter, how- 
ever, harmonize better with their surroundings (fifth law). 

The American Tubinares, with but one or two exceptions, as far as 
known, lay white eggs, but they are protected, from the fact that they 
are laid either in inaccessible or little frequented places (eighth law). 
Birds rather low in the scale of organization, as the Short-tailed Alba- 



488 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

tross (D. albatrus), which lay a "nearly equal-ended white egg," and 
where for many ages there may have been no special reason for it to 
take on any other form or a pattern of varied coloration, possibly may 
have done so through a long line of avian ancestors (sixth law). 
Among the Aleve I am not sure whether Alle lays its two unitiuted 
eggs in a concealed nest or the reverse. Otherwise the coloration of the 
eggs of the birds of this group can all be explained under the second, 
third, and eighth laws as given above. I am inclined to think that the 
handsomely marked eggs laid by the Longipennes gain protection under 
the operation of the fifth law, and in many cases where 1 have collected 
the eggs of Gulls and Terns I have noticed that they often harmonize 
admirably with their surroundings. It is almost a universally con- 
ceded fact that this is distinctly so in the case of the Limicolw, where 
it is sometimes most beautifully exemplified. 

Bitterns among the Herodiones are striking examples where the 
species lay unitiuted eggs, but the sitting bird has a plumage that is 
in complete harmony with the environment of the nest. Even the 
long pointed brown or dark-green feathers of the back and head simu- 
late the thin lengthy sedge leaves when matted in mass on the ground. 
With Herons which build in trees such a protection is less evident. In 
the Rallidce both the plumage of the bird and the coloration of the eggs 
themselves arc protective. This is also the case with the GruidcB, an- 
other family of the Paludioolce. 

Passing next to the Steganopodes we meet with another group of 
bird forms, morphologically more or less lowly organized, which for 
ages in the world's history have probably laid their eggs in the most 
inaccessible of places, and it is just possible that the eggs they now 
lay, sometimes single and sometimes few (Cormorants), may be more or 
less like those that were laid by their very early ancestors. The 
elliptical white eggs of the Sulidce, covered with a calcareous crust, are 
very different affairs from the more ordinary appearing eggs of water 
birds higher in the scale of organized bird life. And, notwithstanding 
their evident anserine affinities this may also apply to the Flamingoes 
(OdontoglosscB). 

Oologists generally express the opinion that the pale unitiuted eggs 
of the Anseres are protected against the pillaging of ordinary maraud- 
ers, from the fact that nearly all birds of this group build their nests 
or lay their eggs in inaccessible localities (eighth law). It must be 
remembered, however, and it is a very interesting fact, that in the case 
of the Swans (Cygnince) the dull white shells of their eggs are frequently 
adventitiously stained by the soil and especially by the wet and decay- 
ing vegetation composing the rude nest in which they are deposited. 
This often discolors them with a brownish, dirty shade, thus rendering 
them the more difficult to be seen upon casual observation. This 
applies likewise to the eggs of many Ducks (Anatince). But Ducks, too, 
often lay drab, greenish or buffy tinted eggs harmonizing with their 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIROS. 489 
i j 

> 

surroundings, and such hues arc also characteristic of the eggs of the 
arboreal building Ducks, such as Aix, for example, which lays drab- 
colored eggs, smooth and ellipsoidal in form. The still more typical 
tree-Ducks of the genus Dendrocygna may lay whiteeggs ( J), autumnalis). 
♦With our Gallina% birds which always build their simple nests 
upon the ground, we find their large clutches of eggs either white, or 
else more or less protectively marked, or finally made so by adventi- 
tious staining (Golinus). These birds, however, as a rule, wear a 
plumage that is preeminently in harmony with the nest surroundings, 
and additional protection is undoubtedly afforded from the fact that 
the incubating birds are all close sitters. There is an interesting 
exception in this suborder in the case of the Massena Partridge 
(Gyrtonyx). This curious bird, described by Vigors in 1830, remained 
comparatively unknown up to the year 1890, at which time not an egg 
of the species was in the possession of science, and even at this writing 
it is one of the United States game birds with which we are the least 
familiar as to its breeding or other habits. Strikingly showy in plum- 
age it lays a glossy, white egg, but it resorts to breed to the moun- 
tainous ravines in the western part of country, and this fact, in so far 
as man is concerned, at least, is the reason its nest has been so rarely 
discovered (eighth law). .Judging from its other habits it is probably, 
too, a very close sitter. 

Pigeons (suborder Columbce) lay, as a rule, white eggs, and both 
sexes incubate in some of the species. Many of them are somber in 
plumage, and make their nests upon the ground, or very near it. So 
far as known they lay but two eggs to the set, but many of them breed 
several times in the season. Those, like Eetopistes, which formerly re- 
sorted to the forests in numberless hosts for the purpose, have been 
largely exterminated through man's agency. It would seem that with 
such a species it mattered not what color their eggs may have assumed, 
it would have afforded no protection whatever against any class of 
despoilers. On the other hand, a little dove-like Golumbigallina fre- 
quently saves its eggs by the habit it has of pitching suddenly off the 
nest and fluttering about on the ground as if wounded, and leading 
away the would-be robber of its treasures. Still, this bird, too, will 
build in the most exposed sites about the habitations of men, where 
their very gentleness and familiarity often protects them. If many 
should resort to this latter practice, and men rarely disturbed them 
when breeding, it would manifestly afford a double protection, for egg- 
eating mammals and birds, so common in the forests. Mould not likely 
be found in such localities, and thus their nests be exempt from plunder 
from such sources. Other birds, as many of the Limicolce, have the 
trick of playing wounded when their eggs are endangered by man's 
approach; but it is a question in my mind whether, in many cases, it 
does not defeat its very object, inasmuch as it often inspires the in 



490 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1802. 

trader to search for the nest. I have never had the opportunity to 
observe how the subterfuge affects other animals below man. 

The Aceipitrine birds lay, as a rule, notoriously handsome eggs, but 
they are commonly protected in two ways : (1) By the inaccessible places 
where the species build their nests, as well as from the fact (2) that 
many of the larger raptorial birds are fully capable of defending them 
against robbery, often driving off man himself. Buzzards ( Gathardidce), 
I believe, never defend their eggs by direct attack, nor do I personally 
know of an instance where they vomit the contents of their stomachs 
over the intruder, as 1 have had some of the Herons serve me (Ardea 
virescens). It is a remarkable fact that the eggs of Gathartes and 
Pseudogryphus differ so in their characters, and we have at present no 
explanation to offer on the subject. It has its significance, however, 
and future researches may solve such problems. Audubon states that 
our Carolina Paroquet deposits its two eggs, which are light greenish- 
white, in the hollow of a tree, and that many females of the species lay 
them together at the bottom of the same cavity (Conurus: Psittact). 
They are examples of the second law given above, and this apparently 
applies with equal truth to the Trogones. 

Exactly why the Coccyges should lay either white or unitinted eggs 
the present writer, at this time, does not pretend to know. They fall 
under the exceptions to the third law, or are examples of somber- 
plumaged birds that lay eggs like those to which reference has just 
been made, in open and exposed nests. Possibly in the future such 
circumstances as the tacts that G. americanus lays "glaucous-white" 
eggs. G. erythrophthalmus •• verditer-blue" ones, and Geococcyx " white" 
ones may aid, slender as such clues usually are, in unraveling the true 
affinities of this group, but our knowledge in .such premises must then 
be far more extensive than it is now. 

The oology of Alc yones, Pici, and Striges, in each and every group, 
affords strong support to the truth of the second law and its general 
proposition, as does that of all our caprimulgine birds (Caprimulgi), 
save Phalceonoptilus nuttalli, support the truth of the fifth law. The 
writer will be obliged to have the opportunities to study the surround- 
ings of the places of deposit of the eggs of a great many Common and 
Nuttall's Whip-poor-wills before expressing an opinion as to why the 
first should lay an egg with a creamy-white shell, heavily marked with 
browns and neutral tints, and the latter a white one. It is remarkable 
in another light, tor Steatomis and the owls lay white eggs. 

Every variety of the means of protection exemplified in the case of 
the eggs of birds is to be seen in the Trociiili. In the first place, the 
eggs of Hummingbirds are inconspicuous from the fact that they are 
so small and few in number. The nests, also small, are frequently so 
constructed as to perfectly harmonize with the surroundings. The nests 
are often built in very inaccessible places, and so, difficult to be seen 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 491 

or reached on that account. The nests are sometimes so* constructed 
as .to hide the eggs from view; in most instances the plumage of the 
back of the incubating- bird is in complete harmony with the environ- 
ment of the nest, and, finally, the eggs are too small to be of any value 
scarcely to any egg-eating animal. 

The somber-plumaged Swifts (Cvpseli), so far as is known of our 
North American species, lay their four or live white eggs in some cav- 
ity where they are hidden from the general view (second law, last part), 
and in this agreeing with some of the Swallows among the Pasneres 
that do likewise. 

There are some curious and interesting examples and departures to 
be seen in our great and compact group of passerine birds (Passeres). 
If we consider the Corrida' to be the most highly organized family of 
the suborder, and Gorvus the highest genus, then in it we find the 
species layiug somewhat numerous, dark-colored and marked eggs 
(G.corax); but these characters rapidly change directly within the 
family, for Gyanocephalus lays only three or four eggs, which are white, 
tinged with greenish and profusely spotted, and such characters are con- 
tinued into the next group, the Stumidae, where, however, they are 
more prolific layers (S. vulgaris), and the eggs, as a rule, are not marked. 
Then, passing by for the moment all the intermediate interrelated 
families, we find in the Clamatores, Tyrannus, which lays but four or 
five eggs, white, boldly and handsomely spotted with brilliant browns 
and yet, too, in that very family (Tyrannidcv) we discover Empidonax 
minimus laying white eggs and unspotted. But just how a Raven 
comes to lay dark-colored, heavily marked eggs, and a small Flycatcher 
white ones I am inclined to believe we shall never exactly know. They 
both in this particular come under the third law, the Raven under the 
first part of it and the Flycatcher under the second. 

The matter of coloration for protective purposes in this group would 
hardly seem to account for the characteristic colors of the eggs of the 
several families of passerine birds; nor, as I have heard it advanced, 
has the light anything to do with it, although my own observations 
lead me to think that crows are more frequently away from their nests 
during the period of incubation than are the smaller Passercs. They are 
not as close sitters. Such a theory, however, immediately becomes 
untenable when wc take species like Ampelis cedrorum and Petroehelidon 
lunifrons into consideration. The first lays a dark-colored, heavily 
marked egg in an open nest, the parent being a close sitter, while the 
second, a Swallow, lays a white, thickly speckled egg in. a covered 
nest, and is not especially a close sitter. Other Swallows, which lay 
pure white eggs in burrows (G. riparia) may fall under the operation 
of the last part of the second law (see above). Affinity of the birds 
again seems to have hardly anything to do with it in some cases, for 
even among species very closely related the eggs are very different. 



492 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 

Good examples of this are seen among our wren. v Troglodytidce). These 
birds all lay in places where their eggs are not exposed to view, yet 
some of them lay pure white eggs, and others those which are very 
dark and densely spotted. It is seen again in Harporhynchus, where 
H. rufus lays whitish eggs speckled with brown, and its first cousin in 
the same genus, //. crissalis, two emerald-green and unspotted eggs. 
Such apparent anomalies would appear almost to defy a correct solu- 
tion. 

When we come to the Fringillidce it is even still more difficult to 
account for the peculiarities of the colors assumed by the shells of their 
eggs. Here we find species of the same genus, habits alike, nesting 
alike, and the localities inhabited much alike, and yet laying very 
different appearing eggs. For example, the Black-faced sage Sparrow 
(A. bilineata), which lays whitish, unmarked eggs, ami the California 
sage Sparrow (A. belli), which lays greenish-blue speckled eggs. 

Another interesting case is one that I have alluded to in my table 
on the oology of the Passeres given above, and we find it among the 
"Grosbeaks." Those birds, so called, usually all lay handsomely 
marked eggs; but the Blue Grosbeak (O. ccerulea) lays a plain egg 
quite like the oik 4 laid by the Indigo Bird of the genus Passerina (P. 
eyanea), only larger. Now, the Blue Grosbeak in plumage and other 
characters is strikingly like an Indigo Bird, and 1 believe that this is 
an instance pointing to the affinity of the two forms: indeed, I further 
believe that the Blue Grosbeak is more nearly related to our Indigo 
Bird than are some of the other species they have placed in the same 
genus with the latter, as, for instance. Passerina ciris and Passerina 
versicolor, birds that lay pearly-white eggs speckled with brown of 
two shades. When 1 say this 1 am also aware that the eggs of the 
Indigo are occasionally speckled. In the popular mind the name 
"Grosbeak 1 ' has given the impression that a number of birds in this 
country so designated are much of the "same kind of species," whereas 
in reality the affinity in several instances is not so close as is generally 
supposed. For example, Guiraca is structurally much more nearly 
related to Passerina cyanea than it is to Habia, and still nearer than it 
is t<> either Gardinalis or Pyrrhuloxia. 

Finally, among our Tcteridce we find beautiful examples of that class 
of cases (fifth law) where the male bird is of very handsome plumage; 
the female (the incubator) more or less somber in that respect; and 
where the eggs, more or less exposed to view (oftener less or partially 
concealed), are very remarkably and exquisitely decorated. 

My examinations and studies of the oology of North American birds 
have clearly shown me that we should strive more and more towards 
correct and exact observation in such matters. It is especially needed 
to have before the oologist abundance of material, and they should 
seek to employ a common nomenclature in the description of colors, 
tints, hues, and shades. This is also applicable to the descriptions of 



COMPARATIVE OOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS. 193 

forms and to the measurements of eggs. In regard to the last, or the 
measurements of eggs, it is a matter of the very, highesl importance to 
the avian oologist. Throughout the present paper I have frequently, 
but not always, contrasted the measurements as given ns by different 
authorities, and it will be seen that the variance in statements in this 
particular is often quite as great as are the descriptions of form and 
color. The fact is the eggs themselves of the same species vary greatly 
in size, and averages taken from large series constitutes the only kind 
of data that can be safely relied upon. Nests and their environments 
are deserving of the most painstaking studies and descriptions, and 
frequent comparisons should be made of the nests of birds of allied 
families and groups. The best oological works are those which are 
fully illustrated with the most correct colored tignres of eggs. In many 
instances a full knowledge of the breeding habits, nesting, and oology 
of birds will be of powerful assistance in determining the affinities of 
avian types. From a scientific standpoint avian oology has accom- 
plished much in the past and will undoubtedly do so in the future. 



SECTION IV. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE 
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1891 



495 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE H. S, NATIONAL MUSEUM, L892, 



I. — PUBLICATIONS <>F THE MUSEUM. 
AWHTUAIi REPORTS. 

Annual Report | of the | Board of Regents | of the | Smithsonian In- 
stitution, | showing | the Operations, Expenditures, and Condi- 
tion | of the Institution | for the j year ending June 30, 1889. 
| — | Report | of the | National Museum. | — | Washington: | 
j Government Printing Office. | 1891. 
8vo., pp. xvii-|-883+50. 107 plates, 137 text-figures, and 7 maps. 

PROCEEDINGS. 

Smithsonian Institution. | United States National Museum. | — | Pro- 
ceedings | of the | Uidted States National Museum. | — | Vol. 
xiii. | 1890. j — | Published under the direction of the Smithson- 
ian Institution. [ — | Washington: | Government Printing Office. 
| 1891. 

8vo., pp. viii+665. Plates i-xxxvu, text-figures 1-11. 

The papers in this volume comprise Nos. 790-841, all of which were pub- 
lished separately during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1891. The date 
of publication of each paper is given in the Report for 1891, on pages 
739, 740. 

BUEEETIN. 

No. 39 is composed of several pamphlets containing instructions to col- 
lectors. Parts A-E have been published during the year. These 
are: 

A. Directions for collecting birds. By Robert Iiidgway. 

Svo., pp. [l]-[27]. Figs. 1-9. 

B. Directions for collecting recent and fossil plants. By F. H. 

Knowlton. 
8vo., pp. |l]-[*6]- Figs. 1-10. 
O. Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons. By Frederic 

A. Lucas. 
8vo., pp. [1]-[11]. Figs. 1-12. 

D. Directions for collecting, preparing, and preserving birds' 

eggs and nests. By Charles Bendire. 
8vo., pp. [1]-[10], Six figures. 

E. Directions for collecting reptiles and batrachians. By Leon- 

hard Stejneger. 
8vo., pp. [1]-[13]. Figs. 1-5. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 33 497 



498 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Smithsonian Institution, | United States National Museum. | — | Bulle- 
tin | of the | United States National Museum. | No. 41. | Bibliogra- 
phies of American Naturalists: | V. The published writings of 
Dr. Charles Girard. | By | G. Brown Goode. | — | Washington : | 
Government Printing Office. | 1891. 
8vo., pp. 1-141. Frontispiece. 

Smithsonian Institution, | United States National Museum. — | Bulle- 
tin | of the | United States National Museum. | No. 42. | A prelim- 
inary descriptive catalogue of the systematic | collections in eco- 
nomic geology and metallurgy | in the U. S. National Museum. | 
By | Frederic P. Dewey. | — j Washington: I Government Print- 
ing Office. | 1891. 

8vo., pp. 1-25(3. Pis. 34. Figs. 10. 



II.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHER 
INVESTIGATORS WHOSE WRITINGS ARE BASKD DIRECTLY OR 
INDIRECTLY ON THE COLLECTIONS OF THE MUSEUM. 

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF NAMES. 

Adams, A. ('., U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, D. C. 

Adler, Cyrus, Librarian, Smithsonian Institution. 

Agassiz, Alexander, Director, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Allen, J. A., American Museum of Natural History, New York City. 

Andrews, E. A., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 

A vi vs. Edward F., Assistant Examiner, U. S. Patent Office. 

Bean. Barton A., Assistant Curator, Department of Fishes, U. S. National Museum. 

Bean, Tarleton H., U. S. Fish Commission; Honorary Curator, Department of Fishes, 

U. S. National Museum. 
Bendire, Charles E., U. S. Army; Honorary Curator, Department of Birds' Eggs, 

U. S. National Museum. 
Benedict, James E., Assistant Curator, Department of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. 

National Museum. 
Branner, John C Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal. 
Brimley, C. S., Raleigh, N. C. 

Butler, Amos W., Secretary. Society ot'Natural History, Brookville, Ind. 
Chapman, Frank M., American Museum of Natural History. New York City. 
Cheirie, George K., National Museum of Costa Rica, Costa Rica. 
Clarke, F. W., U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of Minerals, 

U. S. National Museum. 
Cope, E. D., 2102 Pine street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Cory, Charles B., $ Arlington street, Boston, Mass. 
Coulter, John M., Indiana State University, Bloomington, Ind. 
Coville, Frederick Y., Assistant Botanist, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Dall, William Healey, U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of 

Mollnsks. U. S. National Museum. 
De Kay, Charles. New York City. 
Dewey, L. H., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Eigeumanu, Carl H., University of Indiana, Bloomington, Ind. 
Eijienmann, Rosa H., San Diego, Cal. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 499 

Evermann, Barton W., Indiana State Normal School, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Gilbert, Charles H., Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal. 
Gill, Theodore, Smithsonian Institution. 

Goode, G. Brown, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 
Harris, Gilbert D., Kussellville, Ark. 

Hasbrouck, Edwin M., 1610 Fifteenth street N.W., Washington, 1>. ('. 
Haupt, Paul, Johns Hopkins University; Honorary Curator, Collection of Oriental 
Antiquities, U. S. National Museum. 

Hay, O. P., Terre Haute, Ind. 

Holm, Theodor, U. S. National Museum. 

Holmes, William H., Bureau of Ethnology; Honorary Curator, Department of 
American Aboriginal Pottery, U. S. National Museum. 

Holzinger, John M., Department of Agriculture. 

Howard, L. O., Assistant Entomologist, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Jenkins, Oliver P., Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, Cal. 

Jordan, David Starr, President of the Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo 
Alto, Cal. 

Kendall, W. C, U. S. Fish Commission. 

Knowlton, F. H., Assistant Curator, Department of Fossil Plants, U. S. National 
Museum. 

Koehler, S. R., Boston Museum of Fine Arts; Curator, Section of Graphic Arts, U. 
S. National Museum. 

Lesquereux, Leo, Columbus, Ohio. 

Linton, Edwin, Washington and Jefferson College, Washiugton, Pa. 

Loomis, L. M., Chester, S. C. 

Lucas, Frederic A., Assistant Curator, Department of Comparative Anatomy, 
U. S. National Museum. 

MacFarlane, R., Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

Marlatt, C. L., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Mason, Otis T.. Curator, Department of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum. 

Merriam, C. Hart, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Merrill, George Perkins, Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum. 

Rathbun, Mary J,, Assistant, Department of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National 
Museum. 

Rathbun, Richard, U. S. Fish Commission; Honorary Curator, Department of Marine 
Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum. 

Riley, Charles V., Entomologist, U. S. Department of Agriculture; Honorary Cura- 
tor, Department of Insects, U. S. National Museum. 

Rose, J. N., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Schneider, E. A., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Shufeldt, R. W., Takoma Park, D. C. 

Simpson, Charles Torrey, U. S. National Museum. 

Stearns, Robert E. C, Adjunct Curator, Department of Mollusks, U. S. National 
Museum. 

Stejneger, Leonhard, Curator, Department of Reptiles and Batrachians, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. 

Stone, AVitmer, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, l'a. 

Tanner, Z. L., U. S. Navy, Washington, D. C. 

Test, Frederick C. U. S. National Museum. 

Thomson, William J.. Paymaster, 1". S. Army. 

True, Frederick W., Curator of Mammals, U. S. National Museum. 

Vasey, George, Botanist U. S. Department of Agriculture; Honorary Curator, De- 
partment of Botany, U. S. National Museum. 

Walcott, Charles 1)., U. S. Geological Survey ; Honorary Curator, Department of 
Paleozoic Fossils, U. S. National Museum. 



500 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Ward, Lester F., U. S. Geological Survey; Honorary Curator, Department of Fos- 
sil Plants, U. S. National Museum. 

Watkins, J. Elfreth, Curator, Section of Steam Transportation and Engineering, 
U. S. National Museum. 

Wilder, Harris H., Northampton, Mass. 

Williams, George H., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 

Wilson, Thomas, Curator, Department of Prehistoric Anthropology, U. S. National 
Museum. 

Yeates, William S., Assistant Curator, Department of Minerals, U. S. National 
Museum. 



LIST OF PAPERS. 

A. C. Adams and W. C. Kendall. Report upon an investigation of the fishing 
grounds off the west coast of Florida. 

Butt. r. S. Fish Commission, Vol. ix, 1889, pp. 289-31J, 1 text figure, pi. cxi, 1891. 
List of the Brachyura collected by W. C. Kendall, pp. 303-300. 
Cyrus Adler, Report on the Section of Oriental Antiquities in (lie U. S. National 
Museum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution il\ S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 289-292. 
Alexander Agassi/.. Reports on the dredging operations off the west coast of Cen- 
tral America to the Galapagos, to the west coast of Mexico, and in the Gulf of 
California, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, carried on by the U S. Fish Commis- 
sion steamer Albatross, Lieut. -Corninauder Z. L. Tanner, U. S. Navy, commanding. 

I. Calamocrinus Diomedse, a new stalked crinoid. 

Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. xvu, No. 2, 1892, pages 90. plates 32. 

II. General sketch of the expedition of the Albatross, from February to May, 
1891. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. XXIII, No. 1, February, 1892, pages 89, plates 22. 
The specimens collected on this expedition are being worked up under the supervision of 
Mr. Agassiz. after which a set will be deposited in the National Museum. 
J. A. Allen. Further notes on Maximilian types of South American birds. 
Butt. Am. Mus. Nat. His., New York, m, No. 2, 1891, pp. 199-202. 

The species treated critically are as follow s : Myiotkera ardesiaea Max.. made the type of a 
new genus; Rhopocichla Allen; Anthos poecilopterus Max. (Geobates poecilopterus) -. Cypselus 
acutus Max., identified as Ghcetura cinereiventris Scl. 
J. A. Allen. On a collection of birds from Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil, made 
up by Mr. Herbert H. Smith. Part i, Oscines. 

Bull. Am. Mus. NOt. Hist. Ill, No. 2, September 29, 1891, pp. 337-380. 

Eighty seven species arc mentioned, of which Calliste margaritce Allen (No. 31) and Bono- 
trichia eapensis costaricensis Allen (p. 375) — the latter from Central America, however — arede- 
scribed as new. The critical notes accompanying this paper are extensive and important, em- 
bracing as they do descriptions of plumages previously undescribed, explanation of variations, 
emendations of synonyms', etc. 
J. A. Allen. The North American species of the genus Colaptcs, considered with 
special reference to the relationships of C. auratus and C. caper. 
Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., IV. No. 1, March 8, 1892, pp. 21-44. pi. ii. 

A very elaborate treatise on a subject of the highest importance in connection with the 
question of the origin of species. The conclusion reached is that the numerous specimens of 
intermediate character are actual hybrids, and not mere " intergrades," thus confirming the 
views of Prof. Baird, published in 1858. 
E. A. Andrews. Report upon the Annelida Polychaia of Beaufort, N. C. 
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Vol. xiv, pp. 277-302, pis. xii-xvm, 1891. 

The new species described are as follows: Harmothoe aculeata, Eunice ornata, Diopatra 
magna, Ophelina agilis, Polydora eommensalis, Axiothea mucosa, Petaloproctus socialis, Am- 
mochares cedificator, Loimia turgida. 

Edward F. Ayres, William S. Yeates and. (See under William S. Yeates.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 501 

Barton A. Bean. Fishes collected by William P. Seal in Chesapeake Bay, at Cape 
Charles City, Va., September Hi to < >ctober 3, L890. 

1'roe. V. 8. Nat. Mus., xiv, pp. 83-94. 

A list of sixty-four species with as account of 1 heir abundance, habits, and common names. 
BARTON A. Bean. The Migration of Eels. 

Forest and Stream. March 3, 1802, p. 199. 

Review of Mr. II. C. Field's account of the migration of eels in New Zealand. 
BARTON A. Bean. A Cat-Fish in Armor. 

Forest and Stream, March 24, 1892, p. 277. 

Popular account of the Cascadura (Hoplosterum littorale) of Trinidad. 
BARTON A. Bean. New Hampshire Fish Culture. 

Forest ami Stream, March 31, 1892, pp. 302,303. 

Review of the Report of the Fish and Game Commissioners of New Hampshire, for the year 
ending December 1, 1891. 
Barton A. Bean. World's Fair Fishes. 

Forest and Stream, April 28, 1892, p. 401. 

Mention of the fishes to be exhibited at the World's Fair, in Chicago, by the U. S Fish 
Commission. 
Barton A. Bean. Pacific Salmon and Trout. 

Forest and Stream, May 5, 1892, p. 422. 

Review of Dr. D. S. Jordan's account of the West Coast Salmonida?, published as Bulletin 
4, by the Board of Fish Commissioners of California. 
Barton A. Bean. Fisheries of the Pacific States. 

Forest and Stream, May 20, 1892, p. 501. 

Review of U. S. Census Bulletin No. 167; statistics of the West Coast fish and fisheries. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Kennerley's .Salmon. 

Forest and Stream, July 9, 1891, pp. 498, 499. 

An account of the distribution, size, colors, and life history of the species is here given. 

Tarleton H. Bean. Illinois Fish Culture. 

Forest and Stream, July 9, 1891, p. 515. 

Review of the Annual Report of the Illinois Fish Commissioners. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Whale, Walrus, and Seal. 

Forest and Stream, July 1(5, 1891, p. 515. 

An account of the breeding habits, etc., of these animals. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Wisconsin Fish Culture. 

Forest and Stream, July 23, 1891, p. 8. 

Review of the Annual Report, 1889-'90, Wisconsin Fish Commissioners. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Land-locked Salmon in Bisby Lakes. 

Forest and Stream, July 30, 1891, p. 21. (Editorial.) 
Tarleton H. Bean. The Bluefish. 

Forest and Stream, September 10, 1891, p. 147. 

An account of its size, distribution, and life history. 
Tarleton H. Bean. New York Fish Commission. 

Forest and Stream. October 8, 1891, p. 234. 

(Review of the 20th Annual Report, Fish Commissioners of New York.) 
Tarleton H. Bean. Carp in California. 

Forest and Stream. November 5, 1891, p. 305. 
Review of its introduction into California. 

Tarleton H. Bean. The U. S. Fish Commission Exhibit. 

Forest ami Stream, November 5, 1891, p. 312. 

Notice of exhibit being (prepared fur exhibition at the World's Fair. 
Tarleton II. Bean. Trout and Salmon in Mexico. 

Forest and Stream, November 19, 1891, p. 353. 

Account of the introduction of these fishes into Mexican waters. 

Tarleton H. Bean. Tench for American Waters. 

Forest and Stream. November 26, 1891, p. 374. 
Introduction of Tench into America. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Yellowstone Park Fishes. 

Forest anil Stream, December 3, 1891, pp. 392-393. 

Review of paper upon the fishes found in the waters of the National 1'ark bj 1>. S. Jordan. 
Tarleton H. Bean. World's Pair Fishes. 
Forest and Stream, December 17, 1891. 



502 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Tarleton H. Bean — Continued. 

Notice of two interesting forms recently obtained in the North Atlantic, Lampris and 
Ruvettus. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Jurisdiction over the Lakes. 

Forest anil Stream, December 24, 1891, p. 445. 

An opinion as to the Government's power in replenishing and protecting the fisheries of 
Lake Ontario. 
Takleton H. Bean. Pennsylvania Fish Commission. 

Forest and Stream, December 24, 1891, p. 425. 

Account of the annual meeting of this Commission held in Washington, D. C, December 18, 
1891. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Impassable Fishways. 

Forest and Stream, December 31, 1891, p. 466. 

An editorial notice of the different kinds of fishways. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Slaughter of Birds and Fishes. 

Forest and Stream, February 4, 1892, p. 97. 

Editorial comments on the destruction of birds and fishes in Florida. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Massachusetts Fisheries and Game. 

Forest and Stream, March 3, 1892, p. 200. 

Review of the 26th Annual Report, Commissioners of Fisheries for Massachusetts. 
Tarleton H. Bean. The Menhaden. 

Forest and Stream, March 10, 1892, p. 221. 

Editorial comments on the life history and uses of the menhaden. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Protect the Black Bass. 

Forest and Stream, March 24, 1892, p. 269. 

A plea for the better protection of the black bass in waters of the United States. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Salmon spawning without going to sea. 

Forest and Stream, March 24, 1892, p. 270. 

Accounts of Salmon reproducing their kind in fresh waters. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Piscatorial exhibition in London. 

Forest and Stream, March 24, 1892, p. 270. 

An account of the exhibition of anglers' trophies at the Royal Aquarium, Westminster, 
England, February 18 to March 5, 1892. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Pennsylvania Fish Protective Association. 

Forest and Stream, April 7. 1892, p. 317. 

Editorial mention of its meeting in Philadelphia, March 29, 1892. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Effects of garbage on fish. 

Forest and Stream, May 19, 1892, p. 469. 

Comments on polluting waters with garbage. 

Tarleton H. Bean. Fisheries at the World's Fair. 

Forest and Stream, May 26, 1892, p. 493. 

Tarleton H. Bean. Food for Fishes. 

Forest and Stream, June 2, 1892, p. 515. 

Editorial notice of paper by A. N. Cheney on this subject. 
Tarleton H. Bean. American Fisheries Society. 

Forest and Stream, June 2, 1892, p. 524. 

Report of the twenty-first annual meeting of the American Fisheries Society, held in 
New York May 25 and 26, 1892. 
Tarleton IL Bean. Fisheries on the Great Lakes. 

Forest and Stream, June 9, 1892, p. 537. 
Editorial notice of Mr. Herschel Whitaker's paper uivinn a history of the Great Lakes fisheries. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Sale of Reared Trout in Close Time. 

Forest and Stream, June 9, 1892, p. 537. 

Editorial notice of Mr. W. L. Gilbert's paper on the sale of trout from private waters. 
Tarleton H. Bean. A National Salmon Park. 

Forest and Stream, June 16, 1892, p. 559. 

Editorial notice of a proposed salmon park in Alaska. 
Tarleton H. Bean. Rearing fish for distribution. 

Forest ami Stream, June 23, 1892, p. 585. 

Editorial analysis of papers upon the subject by prominent fish culturists. 
Tarleton II. Bean. Description of a new species of star gazer (Cathetostoma albi- 
gutta) from the Gulf of Mexico. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. . r >(>o 

Tarlkton H. Bean. Notes on fishes collected in Mexico by Prof. Duges, wit li 
descriptions of new species. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XV, pp. 283-287. 

(Fundulus robustus, A i-ii in bartoni, and Algansea dugesi arc described for the flrsl time.) 
Charles E. Bendire. Docs the Rattlesnake Spit .' 
Forestand, Stream, xxxvm. June 2, l*!):.'. p. 518. 

( '< introverts Prof. Cope's account of the rattlesnake's action in attacking. 
James E. Benedict. Decapod Crustacea of Kingston Harbor. 
Johns Hopkins University Circular, Vol. XI, No. 97, p. 77. April, 1892. 

A list of thirty-eight species of Crustacea collected at Jamaica by Dr. T. II. Morgan, with 
descriptions of one new genus, Areograpsus, ami three uew species Eucratoplax spinidentata, 
A reograpsus jamaicensis and Sesarma bidentata. 
James E. Benedict. Preliminary descriptions of thirty-seven new species of hermit 
crabs of the genus Eupagurus in the U. S. National Museum. 
Proc. 0. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. xv, pp. 11-26, 1892. 

The p'nus is divided, according to the character of the left hand, into four subgenera, Eupa- 
gurus, Trigonochirus, Elassoehirus and Labidochirus. Of the thirty-seven new species, twenty- 
eight arc from the west coast of North America, one from the I lalapagos Islands, two from the 
cast coast of South America, and the remainder from Florida and the ( 'aribbcan Sea. 

James E. Benedict and Mary J. Rathbun. The genus Panopeus. 
I'm,, r. S. Nat. Mux.. Vol. xiv, pp. 355-385, pis. xix-xxiv. 1891. 

A monograph based on thirty-eight species, twenty-five of which arc contained in the 
Museum. Six species are described as new: Panopeus areolatus, dissimilis, ovatus, angusti 
frons, hemphillii, bermudensis. 

John G. Branner and Frederick V. Coville. (See under Frederick V. Covllle.) 
C. S. Brimley. Bachman's Warbler (Helmenithophila bachmani), at Raleigh, N. ('. 
The Auk, vni, No. 3, July, 1881, pp. 310-318. Specimens taken April 27 and May 22, 1891. 
Amos W. Butler. Notes on the Range and Habits of the Carolina Parrakeet. 

The Auk, ix, No. 1, Jan., 1892, pp. 49-56. Refers chiefly to " its distribution in Indiana and 
neighboring States, together with some notes upon its habits." 
Frank M. Chapman. On the eolor-pattern of the upper tail coverts in Colaptes 
auratus. 

Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Wist., in, No. 2, August 27, 1891, pp. 311-314. 

Shows a remarkable individual variation in respect to the markings in question, page 314 
showing illustrations of single feathers from fifteen individual specimens, each differently 
marked. 

Frank M. Chapman. On the birds observed near Corpus < Ihristi, Tex., during parts 
of March and April, 1891. 

Hull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., in. No. 2, August 27, 1891, pp. 315 328. 

A well annotated list of thirty-three species, of which Cardinalis cardinalis carinushu 
Chapm. (p. 324) is described as new. 
George K. Cherrie. Description of new genera, species, and subspecies of birds 
from Costa Rica. 

Proc. I'. S. Nat. Mus.. Vol. xiv, No. 855, September 5, 1891, pp. 337-346. 

New genera: Deconychura (p. 338), type, I>. typiea, new species; Premnoplex (p. 339), type 
Munjii romis In 'unnescens Tawr. New species and subspecies : Lophotriccus sguamicristatus 
hi inn i- iy. 337), Lophotriccus zeledoni (p. 337), Pachyrhamphusornatus (p. 338), Deconyehurc, typiea 
(p. 33!)), Vireo superciliaris (Eidgway, MS.) (p. 340), BasUeuterus salvini (p. 342), GraUaria 
lizanoi (p. :(42). Pachyrhamphus similis (p. 343). Arremon aurantiirostris saturatus (p. 345), 
Myrmeciza intermedia (p. 345). 
George K. Cherrie. Notes on Costa Riean Birds. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. xiv. No. 879, November is. 1891, pp. 517-537. 

Species and subspecies not iced critically are, <1) Gatharus melpomene, (2) Gatharus mexicanus , 
(3) Campylorhynchus capistratus, (4) Henicorhina prostheleuea i'<) Benicorhina leueophrys, (6) 
Thryophilus costaricensis, (8) Thryophilus thoracicus, (!*) Thryophilus zeledoni, (11) Thryophilus 
semibadius, (12) Thryothorus hyperthrus, (13) Thryothorus melanogaster, (14) Thryothorus 
fasciativentris, (15) Oreothlypis gutturalis, (16) Dendroica vieilloti, (17) Geothlypis caninucha 
icterotis, (18) Geothlypis bairdi, (19) BasUeuterus delattrii, (20) BasUeuterus melanogenys, (21) 
Setophaija aurantiaca, (22) Vireo pollens, (23) HylophUus ochraceiceps, (24) Cyclorhis flavipectus 
subflavescens, (25) Vireolanius puchellus verticalis, (26) THglossa plumbea, (27) Dacnis venusta, 
(28) Euphonia gracilis, (29) Euphonia minuta, (3ii) Ramphoeelus costaricensis, (31) Ghlorospin- 
gus pileatxis, (32) Buarremon gutturalis, (33) Dendrornis nana costaricensis, (34) Myrmeei " 
stictoptera, (35) Picolaptes compressus, (36) PhUydor oirgatus, (37) GraUaria intermedia, (38> 
GraUaria dives. (39) Ornithion imberbe, (40) Tyranniscus parvius, (41) Empidonax albigularis, 



504 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S92. 

GEORGE K. Chekrie — Continued. 

(42) Gontopus lugubris, (43) Platypsaris aglaice, (44) Pachyrhamphus versicolor, (45) Pipra 
velutina, (46) Pipra leucorrhoa, (47) Pipra leucocilla, (48) Pipra mentalis, (40) Trogon elegant., 
(50) Antrostomus vociferus, (51) Goccygus minor, (52) Chloronerpes simplex, (53) Melanerpes 
chrysaucTien, (54) Accipiter turns. 
F. W.Clarke. The relations of abstract research to practical invention. 

7'<V'- ,sw. Monthly, August, 1891, p. 540. 
P. W. Clarke. Table of atomic masses. 

A leaflet published by C. F. Chandler, October, 1891, for the use of students in Columbia 
College. 
F. W. Clarke. Administrative report as chief chemist. 

Tenth Annual Report of the U.S. Geological Survey. 
F. YV. Clarke. The practical analysis of silicates. 

Journ. Amer. Ghem. Soc, December, 1891, xin, p. 277. 
F. W. Clarke. Tschermak's theory of the chlorite groups and its alternatives. 

Amer. Journ. Sci., March, 1892, pp. 190-200. 
F. W. Clarke. Report of the Department of Minerals in the TJ. S. National Mu- 
seum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution {TJ. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), p. 401. 
F. W. Clarke. Report on Prof. Morley'e researches. 
Report of the Smithsonian Institution. 1890>(1891), p. 83. 
F. YV. Clarke and E. A. Schneider. On the condition of certain micas, vermicu- 
lites and chlorites. 

Amer. Journ. Sci., September, 1891, pp. 242-251. 
F. AY. Clarke and E. A. Schneider. Experiments upon the constitution of certain 
micas and chlorites. 

Amer. J, mm. Sci.. May, 1892, pp. 378-386. 
F. YV. Clarke and E. A. Schneider. Ueber die Einwirkung des Salmicks bei IMs- 
sociatiou teniperatur auf Silicate. 
Ber. d. Deutsch. Ghem. Gesell, 25, 883. 
F. W. Clarke, chief chemist, and others. Bulletin 7X of the U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey. Report of work done in the division of chemistry and physics, mainly 
during the fiscal year 1889-'90. 
F. YV. Clarke. Abstracts of various papers on atomic weights published from time 

to time in the Journal of Analytical and Applied Chemistry. 
E. 1). COPE. A critical review of the characters and variations of the snakes of 
North America. 

Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, No. 882, pp. 589-694. 

The attempt is made to define with precision the species of North American snakes, 
together with their variations. 

E. I>. Cope. Color-pattern in Cnemidophorus. 

Amer. Natural., XXV, 1801, pp. 1135, 1136. 

The longitudinally striped pattern shown to pass in a transversely banded form. 
E. I>. Cope. Parallel color-patterns in lizards. 

Amer. Natural., XXVI, 1892, p. 522, pi. xviii. 

Calls attention to the parallelism of pattern development in Lacerta and ( Cnemidophorus. 
E. D. Com:. The osteology of the Laceriitia. 

Proc. Am. PhU. Soc, xxx, 1892, pp. 185-221, pis. ii-vi. 

Descriptions of skeletons of various North American generic types. 

E. 1). Cope. On the characters of some paleozoic fishes. 

Proc. TJ. S. Nal. Mus., xiv, pp. 447-463. 
Charles B. Cory. Descriptions of new birds from the Bahama Islands, with re- 
marks on the species of Speotyio which occur in the West Indies. 
The Auk, viii, No. 4, October, 1891, pp. 348, 349. 

New species are as follows: (1) Spindolis zena stejneger; Elenthera I. (p. 348) ; (2) Dendroiea 
pityophila bahamensis, Abaco (p. ::48>; (3) Speotyto cunieularia bahamensis Inagua (p. 348). 
John M. Coulter. Manual of the phanerogams and pteridophytes of Western 
Texas. 

Gont. Nat. Kerb., n, June, 1892, pp. 153-345. 

This is the second part of a Manual of Western Texas. This number treats of the Gamo- 
petalw only. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 505 

Fkederick V. Coville and John ('. Branner. A list <>i' the plants of Arkansas. 
Report of Geological Survey of Ark., iv, 1888, pp. 155-252. 
This is a catalogue of nil the known plants of Arkansas. 

Frederick V. Coville. Description of new plants from Southern California, Ne- 
vada. Utah, and Arizona. 

Biol. Soc. of Washington, vm, 1892, pp. 65-80. 
William Hea ley Dall. Contribution a la Fauhe malacolojique terrestres des Ilss 
Galapagos. 

Jim null <li- Conchy liologie, Paris, xxxi. No. 4, ]p|p. :i l -t-.': 1 1«. October, 1891. 
This is a brief synopsis of the malacolegical results obtained 1>.\ Dr. G. Banr during es 
p] oration of the Galapagos Islands. 
William Healey Dall. On anew subgenus of ineretrix (Entwela), with descrip- 
tions of two new species from Brazil. 

The Nautilus, Philadelphia, July, 1801. Vol. v, No. 3, pp. 26-29. 

Entwela perplexa Stearns fr the Rio La Plataand Entwela Iheringi Dall from Southeastern 

Brazil, arc described and figured. 
William Healey Dall. On some marine mollusks from the southern eoast of 
Brazil. 

The Nautilus, August, 1891, pp. 42-44. 

This paper comprises a list of species from the region specified, mostly collected by Dr. H. 
v. Ihering. 

William Healey Dall. On some types new to the fauna of the Galapagos Islands. 

Tl,r Nautilus, January. 1S92, pp. 97-99. 

This describes TLelicina Tiesiotica, Leptinaria chathamensis, and Zonites Sauri, all new spe- 
cies, and notes the occurrence of a new species of Pupa and Bulimulus (Pleuropyrgus) JSabeli 
Stearns. 
William Healey Dall. On the species of donax of Eastern North America. 
The Nautilus, March, 1892, pp. 125, 127. 

This paper gives the diagnostic features of the different species in tabular form, and de- 
scribes as new D. Emmonsi and J>. aequilibrata Hall from the late tertiarius of the Carolinas. 
William Healey Dall. On an undescrihed Cytherea from the Gulf of Mexico. 
The Nautilus, April, 1892, pp. 134. 135. 

In this paper Cytherea lexasiana is described from the coast of Texas. 
William Healey Dall. Geographical explorations. Early expeditions to the re- 
gion of Behring Sea and Strait. From the reports and Journals of Vitus Ivano- 
vich Behring, translated by William Healey Dall. Washington, Government 
Printing Office, 1891. 

From IT. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, T. ('. Mendenhall, Superintendent, Annual Report 
for 1890. Appendix 19, pp. .759-774; 4° with two maps. March, 1891. 

This paper, separately printed as above with title page and cover, appears in the annual 
volume with the following heading: 

Notes on au original manuscript chart of Behring's expedition of 1725-1730, and on an orig- 
inal manuscript chart of bis second expedition ; together with a summary of a journal of the 
first expedition kept by Peter Chaplin and now first rendered into English from Bergh's Rus- 
sian version." 
William Healey Dall. Tertiary Mollusks of Florida, Part ir, Introductory. On 
the marine Pliocene beds of the Carolinas. 

Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Transactions, Vol. iv, pp. 201-217, January 
20, 1892. 

The above was separately printed in advance, and contains a demonstration of the existence 
of true Pliocene beds in the Carolinas. The general conclusions were reprinted in the Nau- 
tilus, March, 1892, pp. 128-132. 
William Healey Dall. Obituary Notices, Emil Bessels. 

Bull. Phil. Soc. of Washington, n. pp. 465, 466. September, 1891. 
William Healey Dale. Apropos des Plenrotomaria des Musees Ainerieaines. 
Bulletin scientifique de In France et de Belgique, Paris. 1891 . xxm, part 2. pp. 488, 489. 
This note explains the condition in which the animals referred to reached America, and 
vindicates the authorities of the Museum from the charge of indifference or carelessness in 
utilizing this material, which had been made. 

William Healey Dall. Scientific results of explorations by the I". S. Fish Com- 
mission Steamer Albatross. \\. — <>n some new or interesting West American 



506 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

William Healey Dall — Continued. 

shells obtained from the dredgings of the 1'. S. Fish Commission Steamer Alba- 
tross in 1888, and from other sources. 

Proc. 77. S. Nat. Mug., xiv. pp. 173-191, No. 849, July i"., 1891. 

In tliis paper the American species and varieties of Eupleura are reviewed, their synonymy 
given, and new forms described and figured. The fossil Nassa ealiforniana and Gryptodon 
bisectus of Conrad are recognized in the recent fauna; several species of Californian Fusui 
are discussed, and F. K oh elt i and Warfordi, hitherto unfigured, are illustrated. The adult 
Trophon triangulatus Cpr. is for the first time recognized and figured, also Carpenter's Clemen- 
tia subdiaphana and Deshayes, TeUina denticulata. The following new species and varieties 
are described: Eujileara unispinosa, E.limata, E. sulcidentata, Trophon cerrosensis, Cancel- 
laria Crawfordiana, TeUina Ida-. Terebratella oeeidentalis va'r. obsoleta, Buccinumstrigillatum, 
]:. tit j>lt riu iii, Mohnia Frielei, Strombella Middendorffii, S. fragilis, S. melonis Chrysodomus 
ilhius, 0. periseelidus, C. phoeniceus, C. eucosmius, C. halibrectus, Trophon seitulus, T. dispa- 
rilis, PunctureUa major. Soil-in mi Johnsoni, Calyptogena (n. gen.) with C. pacifica as type, and 
Limopsis vaginatus, 

William Healky Dall. Instructions for collecting mollusks, and other useful 
hints for the conchologist. 

Hull. 77. S. Xnt. Mils., X... 39, Part G, pp. [l]-[56], 1892. 

This paper is intended to furnish hints to collectors who desire to hunt for mollusks, and 
includes notes on the manufacture of dredges, the preservation of specimens for anatomical 
research, the fitting of cabinets, scheme for cataloguing collections and a list of useful books 
of reference. 

William Healky Dall. The fate of the fur seal. 

Forest and Stream, New York, XXXVU, No. 10, p. 3(17. November 5, 1891; and the same, No. 
19, p. 308, November 2G, 1891. 

Two letters discussing the factors tending to diminish the species and the value of the 
skills in 1866.* 

Charles DkKay. < hi a bronze Buddha in the U. S. National Museum. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum). 1889 (1891), pp. 729-735, pi. 
CV1I. 

L.H.Dewey. Characteristic vegetation of the desert region from western Texas 
to central Arizona. 

Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, 1891, pp. 351-355, 8 pis. 
Carl II. Eighxmanx. The Fishes of San Diego. 
Proc, 77. S. Nat. Mus., xv, pp. 123-178. 

An account of the observations made by the author on the fishes of San Diego and vichrty, 
from December 11, 1888, to March 4. 1890. One hundred and seventy species and varieties are 
here catalogued. 
Carl H. Eigenmann and Rosa S. Eioexmaxx. A catalogue of the fresh-water 
tishes of South America. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, pp. 1-81. 
Rosa S. Eigenmann and Caul H. Eioexmaxx. (See under Caul H. Eioexmaxx.) 
Barton W. Evermaxx and Oliver P. Jenkins. Report upon a collection of fishes 
made at Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, with descriptions of new species. 
Proc. F. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, pp. 121-105. 
A list of one hundred and ten species, with descriptions of seventeen supposed to be new. 

Ciiahles H. Gilbert. Description of apodal fishes from the tropical Pacific. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Max . xiv. pp. 347-352. 

Charles H. Gilbert. Descriptions of thirty-four new species of fishes collected 
in 1888 and 1889, principally among the Santa Barbara Islands and in the Gulf 
of California. 

Proc. 77. S. Nat. Mas., xiv, pp. 539-560. 

Theodore Gill. On Eleginus of Fischer, otherwise called Tilesia or Pleurogadus. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, pp. 303-305. 

Theodore Gill. Notes on the genus Hiatula of Lacepede, or Tmitogaof Mitchill. 
Proc. 77. .v. .Xat. Mus., xiv. J). 09,">. 

Theodore Gill. Note on the genus Chonerhinus or Xentoperus. 

Proc. V. S. Xat Mas., xiv. pp. 097-099. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE V. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 507 

Theodore Gill. <>n the genus Gnathanacanthus of Bleeker. 

Proc.U.S. Nat. Mas., xiv, pp. 701-703. 

Theodore Gill. Notes ou the Tetraodontoidea. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mac, xiv, pp. 705-720. 

G. Brown Goode. The Museums of the Future. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 427-445. 
G. BrownGoode. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National 
Museum during' the year ending June 30, L889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum) 1889 (1891), pp. 3-277. 

Gilbert Dennison Harris. On the confounding of Nassa Trivittata Say and 
Nasxa Peralta Cour. sp. 

American Geologist, September, 1891, pp. 174— 17<>. 

The material upon which this review was based forms part of the collection of the U. S. 

National Museum. 
Edwin M. Hasbrouck. Acadian Owl (Nyclala acadica) at Washington, D. C. 
The Auk, vui, No. :!, July. 1891, p. 313. 

Records five specimens taken during winter of 1890-1891, one of which was captured alive 
in tin- Smithsonian building. 

Edwin M. Hasrrouck. The Carolina Paroquet (Conurus carolinensis). 

The Auk, XIII, Xo. 4. October. 1891, pp. 369-379; full page map. 

An important resume of the geographical range, past and present, of this highly interest- 
ing bird. The map shows the startling contrast between its present very restricted range 
and its former extensive distribution. 

Paul Haupt. Das babylonische Nimrodepos. II. Abth. der Keilschrifttext der 
XL Tafel mit deni Siindflutbericht. Hinrichs, Leipzig. 

The cuneiform text of the eleventh tablet of the Nimrod Epic, containing the account of 
the Deluge. Restored from the fragments and autographed. 

Pall Haupt. Proposed new translation of the Bible. 

Johns Hopkins University Circular, Baltimore, May, 1892, pp. 87-90. 
Containing the plan of the proposed Bible and the directions to contributors. 

O. P. Hay. Note ou Gyrinophilus maculicandus Cope. 
American Naturalist, xxv, 1891, pp. 1133-1135. 
Shows that the species should be referred to the genus Spelcrpes. 
Tiieodor Holm. A study of some anatomical characters of North American Gram- 
inece. ii. The genus Uniola continued. 

Botanical Qazette, xvi, 1891, pp. 219-22."), pis. xxi.xxii. 

Describes the anatomy of the leaf of Uniola gracilis. U. nitida, U.paniculata, and U. Palmeri. 
Several characters are observed by which these species are easily distinguished anatomically. 

Theodor Holm. The Podostemaceae. Review of Eugen "Warming's paper, 1'odos- 
temacece, in Engler und Prantl: Die natiiiiichen Pflanzen Familien, in, 2a. 
Botanical Gazette, August, 1891, pp. 237, 238. 

Tiieodor Holm. Review of R. Pirotta's paper: Keteleeria Fortunei in Aunuario 
del R. Institute Botanico di Roma, Anno iv. 
Botanical Gazette, xvi, p. 274. 

Tiieodor Holm. A double-flowered Cyclamen. 
Garden and Forest, 1892. 

Description of some abnormally developed flowers of Cyclamen persicum. Small flowers 
were developed in the axils of the calyx-lobes. 

Tiieodor Holm. Opfording til danske Botanikere. Medd fra botan. For Kjoben- 
havn, 1892. 

Requests Danisb botanists to forward their publications to the Library of tin- U.S. National 
Museum. 

Tiieodor Holm. A study of some anatomical characters of North American Grami- 
iiea', in. Di8tichlis and Pleuropogon. 

Botanical Gazette, XVI, 1891, pp. 275-281, pis. xxni-xxiv. 

Describes the anatomy of the leaf of Distichlis maritima, T>. thalasxica. D.prostrala, Pleu- 
ropogon refractum, /'. californicum and /'. sabinei. The anatomical characters are sufficient 
for the distinguishing of their species. 



508 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Theodor Holm. Review of V. B. Wittrock's paper: De Linaria lierercltoni n. sp. 
Observationes morphologicae et biologicae in Acta horti Bergiani, Vol. i. 

Botanical Gazette, XVII, p, 64. 

Theodor Holm. Burnt Spots on Leaves. 

Review ofB. Jonsson's paper : "Ombrannflac karpaa vaxtblad" in Botaniska Notiser, 1S91. 
Botanical Gazette, xvu, pp. 89-91. 

Theodor Holm. On the vitality of some annual plants. 
Amer. Jour. Sei., xlii, pp. 304-:i(i7, pi. x. 

Description of some North American plants, which, though considered as annual, some- 
times occur as perennial or biennial. 

Theodor Holm. Vitality of Ferns. 

Review of V. B. Wittrock's paper "De filicibus observationes biologicae" in Actr. horti 
Bergiani. Vol. I. 
Botanical Gazette, XVII, pp. 55, 50. 

Theodor Holm. Anatomy of Carices. Review of A. Mazel's paper : " Etudes d'ana- 

tomie comparre sur les organes de vegetation dans le genre Carex." Geneve, 
1891. 

Botanical Gazette, xvu, pp. 56-58. 

Theodor Holm. Anatomy of tlie stolons of Graminece. Review of P. Hellstroem's 
paper: "Naagra Lakttagelser angaaende anatomien hos graesens undeijbrdiska 
utlopare." Bihang K. Sv. Vet, Akad. Hdlgr., xvi, ism. 
Botanical Gazette, xvu, pp. 121, 122. 
Theodor Holm. Studies niton germination. Review of F. Hildebrand's paper 
" Einige Beobachtungen an Keimlingen und Stecklingen." Bot. Zeitung, 1892. 
Botanical Gazette, xvu, pp. 122. 12::. 

Theodor Holm. The Home of Calypso. 

Botanical Gazette, xvn, p. 133. 
Theodor Holm. Review of Alida Ober's paper upon the structure of the pericarp 
of Labiatw in Bihang K. Sv. Vet. Akad. Hdlgr., xvi. 
Botanical Gazette, xvu, p. 13:;. 
Theodor Holm. Review of O. Nordstedt's paper "A Monograph of the Australian 
Characece." 

Botanical Gazette, xvn, p. 134. 

Theodor Holm. Review of F. Kjellman'e paper " Undersokning of naagra til slag- 
tet Adenocystis Hook-til h an for da alger" in Bihang K. Sv. Vet. Akad. Hdlgr. 
Vol. xv. 

Botanical Gazette, xvn, p. 135. 
Theodor Holm. Review of G. Lagerheim's paper upon the occurrence of European 
Uredineas near QuitoJ Ecuador. Botaniska Notiser, 1891. 
Botanical Gazette, xvu, p. 135. 

Theodor Holm. The vegetation of the paramos of Venezuela. Review of Goebel's 
paper " Die Vegetation der venezolanischen Paramos." I'llanzenbiol Schilder- 
ungen, Pars 2, 1891. 

Botanical Gazette, xvn, pp. 159,160. 

Theodor Holm. The psammophilous flora of Deumark. Review of Eugen Warm- 
ing's paper, "De psammofile Formationeri Danmark." Videnskab. Mddd. fra. 
Naturlist Forening Kjobenhavn, 1891. 
Botanical Gazette, xvn, pp. 220-222. 

Theodor Holm. Third list of additions to the flora of Washington, D. C. 
Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vn, pp. 105-132. 

Enumeration of eighty species, new to the flora, and some localities of the rarer species, so 
as to show their distribution in the District. 

Theodor Holm. Notes on the flowers of Anthoxanihum odoralum L. 

Proc. V. S. Xat.Mii>:.. xv, pp. 399-403. 

This paper gives an account of (he structure of the flower of this plant, a subject that has 
been discussed by several botanists before, and which has given very different ideas as to the 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 509 

Thkodor Holm — Continued. 

conception of the structure. It seems thai the present paper, l>ased upon abnormally de- 
veloped specimens, throws some light upon this ^ erj combined structure. 
William II. Holmes. Illustrated catalogue of collections. 

Third A a a mil Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, pp. 427-510, 84 text figs. 
William II. Holmes. Ancient pottery of the Mississippi Valley. 

Fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, pp. :;iil 4:;G; 103 text figs. 
William IT. Holmes. Spurious Mexican antiquities and their relation to ancient 
art.* 

Report i'/ tin' Smithsonian Institution. t886 (1889), pp. 319-334. 
William H. Holmes. Ancient Pueblo pottery. 

Fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, pp. 257-360; 150 text li.ns. 
William II. Holmes. Ancient pottery of Chinqui. 

Sixth Annual Report of the Hunan of Ethnology, pp. 13- 187; 285 text tins., 1 pi, 
William II. Holmes. Studies in aboriginal decorative art. Stamped ornament of 
South America n earthenware. 

American Anthropologist, January, 1892, pp. 67-72. 
William H. Holmes. The rocking-stamp or roulette in pottery decoration. 

American Anthropologist, April. 1892, pp. 149-152; 2 pis. 
John M. Holzinger. The identity of Asolepias stenophylla and Acerates auriculata. 

Botanical Gazette, xvu, 1892, April, p. 124; May, p. 100. 
L. (). Howard. A Note ou Parasites. 

Insert Life, iv, double number 1 and 2, October, 1890, pp. 48, 49. 

A number of instances are given of error in the determination of the relations between 
host insect and parasite, and the frequent causes of error are pointed oul and the necessity 
for great care insisted upon. 
L. O. HOWARD. The Larger Corn-Stalk Borer. 

Insect Life, iv, double number '■'< and 4, November, 1896, pp. 90-103. 

Historical account and life history of Diatraea saccharalis, detailing particularly its damage 
to corn and giving new food-plants and remedies. 
L. O. Howard. The Methods of Pupation among the Chalcididce. 
Insect Life, tv ; double number 5 and 6, December, 1891, pp. 193-196. 

L. O. Howard. The Habits of Elasmus. 

Insert Life, iv, double number 7 and 8, March, 1892, pp. 253-254. 
L. <>. Howard. The Biology of the Hymenopterous Insects of the Family Chalci- 
didw. 

Proc. V. S. Xat. Mus., xiv. pp. 567-588, excerpt No. 881. Published 1891. 
A general consideration of the biology of the Ghalcididos under the following subheads: 
The insects and stages of insects infested by Chalcidids; How the Chalcidid larva lives; How 
fast does it develop ? ; How the larva transforms; How many develop in a single host.'; Pro 
portions of sexes in issuing; Phytophagic habit ; Parthenogenesis; How large is the family? 
L. o. Howard. The Habits of Melittobia. 

Proc. Fnt. Sue. Washington, II, No. 2, pp. 214-248. Issued June 3(1, 1892. 
A resume of tin- habits of the hymenopterous parasites belonging to this genus, with an 
account of the rearing of a species from a dipterous pupari. An appended table indicates the 
host insects, thi' species of (parasite, and the name of the observer. 

L. <). Howard. Appearance of Mealy Bugs parasitized by Leptomaslrix. 

Proc. Fnt. Sue. Washington, n, No. 2, pp. 244-248. Issued Juno 30, 1892. 

Careful description of these parasitized Mealy Bugs, indicating a striking resemblance to 

Dipterous puparia. 

lj. o. Howakd and C. V. Riley. (See under C. V. Riley.) 

Oliver P. Jenkins and Barton W. Evermann. (See under Barton W. Evermann. ) 

David Stahr Jordan. Relations of temperature to vertebra' among lishes. 

Proc. (7. ,S\ Nat. Mus., XIV, pp. 107-120. 

W. C. Kendall, A. C. Adams and. (See under A. ('. Adams.) 

F. II. KNOWLTON. Directions for collecting Recent and Fossil Plants. 

Bull. U.S. Wat. Mus., No. 39, Tart B, pp. [l]-[46]. 

Contains explicit directions for making collections of recent and fossil plants. 

* Notice of this paper was inadvertently omitted from the bibliography in the re- 
port for 1889. 



510 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

F. II. Knowi.ton. The Flora of the Dakota (Jroiip. A posthumous work by Leo 
Lesquereux. Edited by F. H. Knowlton. 

Monograph xvn, 7 r . S. Geological Survey, pp. 1-400, pi. lxvi. 

This monograph contains descriptions of 460 species of plants, ami represents one of the 
best known fossil floras of the world. 
S. R. Koehler. Museum of Fiue Arts, Print Department : Exhibition illustrating 
the technical methods of the reproductive arts, from the fifteenth century to the 
present time, with special reference to the photo-niechunical processes. January 
S to March 6,1892. Boston: Printed for the Museum by Alfred. Ilerdge & Son, 
24 Franklin street, 1892, xi + 98, 16mo. 

A descriptive catalogue, giving a concise historical and technical account of all the repro- 
ductive processes of which specimens were shown. 
S. R. KOEHLER. Report on the Section of Graphic Arts in the U.S. National 
Museum, 1889. 

Reporlof the Smithsonian Institution (TJ. S. National Museum), 1880 (1891), pp. 301-315. 

Leo Lesquereux. (See under F. H. Knowlton.) 

Edwin Linton. Notes on entozoa of marine fishes, with descriptions of new species. 
Part in. 

Bept. V. S. Commr. of Fish and Fisheries, 188s (1891), pp. 223-542, pis. uii-lx. 
Notes on the genus Echinorynchus, with descriptions of four new species: E. thecatus, atten 
uatus, serrani, and earcharice. 
Edwin* Linton. The anatomy of Thysanocephalmn crispum, Linton, a parasite of 
the tiger shark. 

Itept. U.S. Commr. of Fish and Fisheries, 1888 (1891), pp. 543-556, pis. i.xi-i.xvii. 
Edwin Linton. On two species of larval Dibothria from the Yellowstone National 
Park. 

Hull. U. S.Fish. Com., ix, 1889, (1891), pp. 65-79, pis. xxm-xxvii. 

Tigula catostomi, sp.nov.,and Dibothrium cordiceps, Leidy, internal parasites of fish, collected 
by Dr. David S. Jordan for the Fish Commission. 
Edwin Linton. Notes on avian entozoa. 

J'ioc. TJ. S. Nat. Muis., xv, pp. 87-1K5, pis. iv-vm, 1892. 

The great ci' pari of the material on which this paper was based was collected by the author in 
the Yellowstone National Park, in the interests of the U. S. Fish Commission, during an in- 
vestigation id' the parasitism of trout, and a search fort lie final host of the entozoa. Additional 
specimens were collected by Mr. P. L. Jouy, at ('uaymas, Mexico. 

One new genus, Epision, and eight new species are described, as follows: Filaria serrata, 
Echinorynchus recto*. Distomum (?) verrucosum, D.flexum, Dibothrium eodle, Fpision plicatus, 
Taenia macrocantha, and T.compressa. 
Leverett M. Loomis. June birds of Caesar's Head, South Carolina. 
The Auk. vin. No. 4, October, 1891, pp. 323-333. 
Annotated list of 52 species. 
Frederic A. Lucas. Animals recently extinct or threatened with extermination, 
as represented in the collection of the U. S. National Museum. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 009-649. pis. 
xcv-cv. 

An account of some of the larger or more interesting species of animals that have become 
extinct within historic times, or are threatened with extinction, giving the reasons for their 
decrease. 

Frederic A. Lucas. On the structure of the tongue in humming birds. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xiv. 1891, pp. 169-172, PI. iv, 2 text tigs. 
Frederic A. Lucas. Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons. 

Bull. U.S. \«t. Mus., No. 39, Part C, pp. [l]-[ll J, 12 text figures. Published August. 1891. 

Full directions for collecting skeletons, with notes on proper methods of packing, etc. 

Frederic A. Lucas. Explorations in Newfoundland and Labrador in 1887. made 
in connection with the cruise of the U. S. Fish Commission schooner Grampus. 
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1889(1891), pp. 709-728. 
C. L. Mari.ai l and Charles V. Riley. (See under Charles V. Riley.) 
Otis T. Mason. Aboriginal skin-dressing-. A study based on the material in the 
U. S. Nat ional Museum. 

Report oj the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891). pp. 553-589, pis. 
LXI-XCIII. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 511 

Otis T. Mason. Report on the Department of Ethnology in the U. S. National 
Museum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum), 1889 (18'.M), pp. 281-288. 
R. MacFarlane. Notes on and list of birds and eggs collected in Arctic America, 
1861-1866. 

l'roc. U. S. Nat. Mu»., xiv. No. 865, October 19, 1891, pp. 413-446. 
A well annotated list of 131 species. 

C. Hart Merkiam. The dwarf screech owl (Megascops flammeolus idahoensis Mer- 
riam). 

The Auk, IX, No. 2, April. L892, pp. 169-171, pi. ii. 

George Perkins Merrill. [Notes on microscopic structure of some Hawaiian 
lavas.] 

Report of the TJ. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, Appendix 14, 1888 (1890), pp. 529, 530. 
George Perkins Merrill. Stones for building aud decoration. Wiley &, Sous, 
New York, 1891, 8 vo., 450 pp., with 11 full-page plates and 18 figures in text. 

This work treats of matters of especial interest to architects and engineers, but the subject 
is so handled as to make it practically a manual on the subject of stones in relation to their 
use for constructive purposes. 

The work opens with a brief chapter on the early history of stone working in the United 
States; this is followed in Part I by chapters ou the geographical distribution of stone of 
various kinds in the United States; the minerals of building stones and the physical and 
chemical properties of such stones as are utilized for general construction aud decorative 
purposes. 

Part n is given up to a systematic description of rocks, quarries, and quarry regious. 
Each variety of stone is taken up in its turn, its composition, its origin, structure aud gen- 
eral adaptability for any form of work discussed, and the resources of each state and terri- 
tory described in alphabetical order. The subjects treated are as follows: (!) the Steatites 
or Soapstones; (2) the Serpentines or vord-antique Marbles ; (3) Gypsum and Alabaster; (4) 
Limestone and Dolomites, both marbles and the common varieties; (5) the Minor Ornamental 
Stones; (6) the Granites; (7) the Porphyries or Porphyritic Felsites; (8) the Liparites ; (9) 
the Syenites; (10) the Diabases, Gabbros, Mclaphyrs, and Basalts; (11) the Diorites and 
Andesites; (12) the Gneisses and Schists; and (13) the Sandstones, Volcanic Tuffs, and 
Slates. 

Part ill treats of the methods of quarrying aud working; the machines and implements 
used in stone working; the weathering of building stone; the selection of stone for building 
purposes, and the methods employed for the protection and preservation of stone from the 
ravages of time. 

Part iv is made up of appendices, including extensive tables showing the qualities of stone 
as indicated by their crushing strength, weight, ratio of absorption, and chemical composi- 
tion; a short table on the prices of stone and the relative cost of dressing; a list of some of 
the more important stone buildings in the United States, and the dates of their erection; a 
bibliography of works on building stone; and concludes with a glossary of terms. 
George Perkins Merrill. The wind as a factor iu Geology. 

The Engineering Magazine, February, 1892, 12 pp. and 7 illustrations. 

In this paper the writer aims to show in a semipopular way some of the more interesting 
and striking geological results produced by wind as an abrading and transporting agent. 
George Perkins Merrill. A marble quarry. 

St. Xicholas, August, 1891, 2 pp., 2 illustrations. 

A brief popular account of a marble quarry in northern Vermont. 

George Perkins Merrill and R. L. Packard. On au azure blue pyroxenic rock 
from the middle Gila, New Mexico. 

Describes the chemical and physical properties of a peculiar granular blue pyroxenic rock 
found in nodular masses in a metamorphic limestone occurring in one of the side canons 
of the Gila River some forty miles west of Silver City, X. Mex. 

George Perkins Merrill. 

Notes on some North Carolina building ami ornamental stones. Stone, iv. No. m, July. 1891. 

pp. 77-79. 
Some errors of the Eleventh Census. Stone, Vol. iv, No. in, July. 1891, p. 92. 
Notes on some uew marbles. Stone, Vol. iv, No. iv, August, 1891. pp. 109, 1 10. 
A suggestion. Stone, Vol. iv, No. iv, August, 1891, p. 114. 

Relative abundance of the elements. Stone. Vol. iv, No. v, September, 1891, pp. 137, 138. 
Foreign vs. American Marbles. Stone, Vol.iv, No. vi, October, 1891, p. J72. 
Our sources of tin. Stone, Vol. IV, No. vn, November. 1891, pp. 212-214. 



512 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

George Perkins Merrill — Continued. 

■ Aluminum. Stone, Vol. iv, No. vm, I December, 1801, p. 330. 

Concerning the Arizona onyx. Stone. Vol. iv. No. vm, December, 1801, pp. 345, 346. 

North Ann ricn in Tertiary times. Stone, Vol. IV, No. ix, January. 1802. pp. 369, 370. 

Persian onyx. Stone, Vol. iv, No. IX, January, 1892, p. 372. 

( !ave marbles. Stone, Vol. iv, No. x, February, 1802. pp. 398, 399. 

Baryte. Statu-. Vol. iv, No. x, February, 1892, p. 404. 

A lesson from the Eleventh Census. Stone, Vol. iv, No. xi, March, 1892. pp. 432, 433. 

Some Montana building stones. Stone, Vol. iv, No. xi, March, 1892, p. 453. 

The micas. Stone, Vol. iv, No. XIII, May, 1892, p. 505. 

R. L. Packard, George P. Merrill and. (See under George Perkins Merrill.) 
Henry A. Pilshry. Preliminary notices of new forms of fresh-water mollusks. 
The Nautilus, v. pp. 142,143, April, 1892. 

Describes Fluminieola Merriama Pilshry and Beecher, from a specimen furnished by the 
U. S. National Museum. 
Mary J. Rathbun. List of Crustacea (collected in Texas by 15. W. Evermann). 

Report of the Commissioner of Fiih and Fisheries respecting the Establishment of Fish Cul- 
tural Stations in the Rocky Mountain Region and Gulf States. Fifty-second Congress, First 
Session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 65, pp. 87,88, 1892. 

The erustacea, of which a list is given in this paper, were collected by Prof. I!. \V. Ever- 
mann during the months of November and December, 1891, while engaged in an investigation 
of the fresh and salt waters of eastern Texas, with a view to the establishment of a hatchery. 
Eighteen species are given, none of which are new . 

Mary J. Rathbun, James E. Benedict and. (See under James E. Benedict.) 
Richard Rathbun. Jerome Henry Kidder. A notice prepared for the Philosoph- 
ical Society of Washington. 

Hull. Philos. Soe.. xi, pp. 480-488, 1891. 
Richard Rathbun. The United States Fish Commission. Sonic of its work. 

The Century Magazine, March, 1892, pp. 679-697. 
Robert Ridgway. Description of a new species of Whippoorwill from Costa Rica. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xiv. No. 867, October 19, 1891, pp. 465, 466. 
Antrostomus rufomaculatus, p. 465. 
Robert Ridgway. Notes on some birds from the interior of Honduras. 
Proc. U. S. Sot. Mux., xiv. No. 868, October 26, 1891, pp. 467-471. 

Based en a collection obtained from Mr. Erich Wittkugel. Platypsaris aglaiee hypopl.ceus 
(p. 467), and Pithys bicolor olivascens (p. 460), are described as new subspecies. A list of the 
geographical races of Platypsaris aglaiee (6 in number) is given (p. 460); the female and young 
male of Gymnocichla chiroleuca guatemalensis Prevost are described for the first time (pp. 
460, 470), and a list of 13 species new to the fauna of Honduras given (pp. 470, 471). 

Robert Ridgway. Notes on some Costa Rican birds. 

Proc. I'. S. Wat. Mus., Vol. xiv, No. 869, November 2, 1891, pp. 473-478. 

Platypsaris aglaiee obscurus (p. 474) and Scytalopus argentifrons (p. 475) are described as 
new; young of Oreothlypis gutturalis (Call.) and Euro met is cassini (Lawr.) are for the first time 
described. Otherspecies noted critically are, Mim/usgUvus (VieiH), (p. 473); Picolaptes gracilis, 
Ridg. (proven to be the young of /'. compressus), (p. 475) ; ('liloeonerpex eaboti (Malh.), immature 
male described (p. 476); Trogon massena Gould (pp. 476-478); Trogon aurantiiventris Gould (p. 
478). and Accipita hubniger (Vieill). (From Greytown, Nicaragua.) 

Robert Ridgway. Note on Pachyrhamphus albinucha Burmeister. 
Proc U. S. Nat. 3Itt»., Vol. xrv, No. 870, October 26, 1891, pp. 470, 480. 

A long-lost species, described seventeen years before, discovered in the National Museum 
collection. Not being referable to tlie genus Pachyrhamphus, or any other known generic 
type, the new generic name Xenopsaris was proposed for it. 

Robert Ridgway. Description of two supposed new forms of Thamnophilus. 

Proc. r. S. \ut. Mus., xiv. No. 871, October 26, 1891, p. 481. 

Thamnophilus albicHssus and Thamnophilus trinitatus, both from the Island of Trinidad. 
Robert Ridgway. List of birds collected on the Bahama Islands by the naturalist 

of Hie Fish Commission steamer Albatross. (Published by permission of the 
Commissioner of Fisheries.) 

The Auk, vm, No. 4, October, 1891, pp. 333-339. 

The list is subdivided according to localities, as follows: I, Abaco, -.0 species; II, New 
Providence, 34 species; III. Eleuthera Island, 18 species; IV. Cat Island. 15 species; V, 
Thattlings Island. 28 species; VI. Rum Hay. 27 species; VII, Green Bay, 26 species; VIII, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 513 

Robert Ridgway — Continued. 

Concepcion Island, 13 species; IX, Booby Rock, near Green Bay, 1 species; X, at sea, 3 
species. 

A considerable number of references and critical remarks accompany tbe lists. 
Robert Ridgway. Description of a new sharp-tailed Sparrow from California. 

Proc. TJ. 8. Nat. Mas., xiv, Xo. 872, October 26, 1891, pp. 483,484. 

Ammodramus caudacutus lucki, p. 483. 
Robert Ridgway. Notes on the Genus Sittasomus of Swainson. 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xiv, Xo. 877, November 2, 1891, pp. 507-510. 

A critical review of the birds of this genus, which have been very imperfectly understood. 
The three recognized species were supplemented by four additional ones, as follows: S. chapa- 
tlensis, new species (p. 509) from Chapado, Matto Grosso, Brazil; S. amazonus Lafr., restored: 
S. cequatorialis, new species (p. 509) from western Equador; S. griteus Jard.. restored. 
Charles V. Riley. (The Gas Treatment Patent.) 

Pacific Rural Press, July 25, 1891, and September 19, 1891. 

History of the invention of the hydrocyanic acid gas treatment for scale-insects; proofs 
that the discovery was made and perfected by an agent of the U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture, under direction of the author, and that the patent granted to Californian parties was 
wrongfully obtained ; advises orange-growers not to heed it. 
Charles V. Riley. Report on the Department of Insects in the I". S. National 
Museum, 1889. 

Report of the National Museum, 1888-89, pp. 377-380. Also,' separate, Washington, Govern- 
ment Printing Office, 1891. 

Report of the Honorary Curator on the accessions to and the work done in the Department 
of Insects of the U. S. National Museum during the fiscal year 1888-'89. Also enumerations 
of works published by various authors during the same time, and based either entirely or par- 
tially upon the material in the Museum. 
Charles V. Riley. Death of two noted Entomologists. 

Scientific American, 65, No. 5, August 1, 1891. 

Biographical note on the late Mr. Henry Edwards, his contributions to entomological 
science and his collection ; explanation of the report of the death (subsequently proven to be 
erroneous) of the Erench entomologist, Mons. J. Kiinckel d'Herculais. 
Charles V. Riley. A viviparous Cockroach. 

Insect Life, in, Nos. 11 and 12, August, 1891, pp. 443, 444, Figs. 32 and 33. 

Further remarks on the viviparity of Panchlora viridis and the occasional occurrence of 
this Central American Blattid in the United States, in addition to article published in Proc. 
Entom. Soc. Washington, n, No. 1, May, 1881, p. 129. Figures of P. viridis in the young and 
adult stages. 

Charles V. Riley. The locust or " Grasshopper'.' outlook. 

Scientific American, 65, September 26, 1891, p. 200. 

Summary of investigations carried on by agents of the U. S. Department of Agricul- 
ture in 1891, to accertain the extent of damage done by various species of locusts in the 
West, and the condition of the swarms of these locusts in order to be able to make a forecast 
for 1892. The following species are more particularly treated : Dissosteiralongipinnis from 
eastern and southeastern Colorado: Caloptenus spretus from North Dakota and Minnesota; 
G. differentialis from southwestern Kausas. Conclusions drawn from these investigations. 
Charles V. Riley. Mexican Jumping Beans and the plants upon which they are 
produced. 

Amer. Garden, 12, September, 1891, pp. 552-554. Two text figures. 

The Mexican Exphorbiaceous plants known to produce the "Jumping Beans" and previ- 
ously referred to the genus Colliguaja prove to belong to the genus Sebastian ia : diagnosis of 
the latter genus and synoptic table of three species (S. bilocularis Watson, palmeri Rose, n. 
sp., and pringlei Rose, n. sp.) prepared by Mr. J. X. Rose: Figures of Carpocapsa saltitans 
and of twig of Sebastiania palmeri with seed and other. details. 
Charles V. Riley. How to get rid of English Sparrows. 

Scientific American, 65, October 3, 1891, p. 213. 

In reply to a query of a correspondent: The sparrows infesting a foundry can best be gotten 
rid of by poisoning with arsenic. Directions how to prepare and apply the poison. 
Charles V. Riley. Micro-organisms as Insecticides. 

Scientific American Supplement, October 31, 1891, p. 13206. 

Abstract of a paper read before Section F of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science, August 22, 1891. The author gives a review of previous experiments in 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 S3 



514 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Charles V. Riley — Continued. 

using micro-organisms in the dissemination of contagious diseases among injurious insects, 
and dwells upon the difficulties with which this subject is still surrounded. 
Charles V. Riley. Kerosene emulsion and Pyrethrum. 
Insect Life, iv, Nos. 1 and 2, October, 1891, pp. 32, 33. 

Short paper read before the "Washington meeting of the Association of Economic Ento- 
mologists regarding the alleged difference between the emulsion consisting of kerosene ex- 
tract of pyrethrum with soap and water and the emulsion prepared from an aqueous extract 
of pyrethrum with soap and kerosene. Adduces a communication from Prof. J. McNeill to 
the effect that there is practically no difference between the two emulsions. 
Charles V. Riley. List of the Tineina of Boreal America. 

In the " List of the Lepidopiera of Boreal America," by John li. Smith, 
Sc. D. Philadelphia : American Entomological Society, October, 1891, p. 94. Also 
separate under above title. 

A systematic enumeration of the Lepidopterous insects composing the superfamily Tineina 
hitherto described from North America. In a note (pp. 94, 95) the author points out the diffi- 
culties in preparing a satisfactory list of Tineina with our present state of knowledge of 
these insects. An "Addendum to the Tineina" (pp. 112-114) gives a generic synonymical 
reference list, of many described species. 
Charles V. Riley. Government work and the Patent Office. 

Insect Life, IV, Nos. 1 and 2, October, 1891, pp. 46,47. Author's abstract of paper read at 
the "Washington meeting of the Association of Economic Entomologists. 

The author complains that valuable inventions and discoveries made by Government em- 
ployes during investigations carried on by Government institutions can be appropriated and 
patented by outsiders upon mere legal technicalities. As an instance of this sort the gas 
treatment for scale insects is discussed. 
Charles V. Riley. A new herbarium pest. 

Garden and Forest, IV, November 18, 1891, p. 543. Also in Botanical Gazette, December, 
1891, pp. 334-337, 2 figs. 
A reprint, with slight additions, from an article in Insect Life, iv. Nos. :; and 4. pp. 108-113. 
Charles V. Riley. The imported Elm-Leaf Beetle. Its habits and natural his- 
tory and means of counteracting its injuries. 

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, lialhtin Wo. 6 (second edition). 
Washington, Government Printing Office, October, 1891. 

A reprint of the original edition published in 1885. with the addition of an appendix dis- 
cussing the number of annual generations of Galernctt xanthomelcena, and Prof. J. B. 
Smith's experience with remedial measures for this pest. 
Charles V. Riley. On the Habits and Life History of Didbrotica 7 .'-punctata. 
Insect Life, iv, Nos. 3 and 4, November, 1891, pp. 104-108, tig. 5. 

Summary of Prof. H. Garman's paper in Psyche on the Natural History of 12-punctata; ob- 
servations on the corn-feeding habits of the larva; breeding records to show that the species 
has at least two annual'generatious; polyphagous habits of the imago; description of the egg 
and larva, and preliminary note on parasites. Figures of the insect in all stages aud mode of 
work. 
Charles V. Riley. A new Herbarium Pest {Carplwxera nov. gen., ptelearian. sp.). 
Insect Life, iv, Nos. 3 and 4, November, 1891, pp. 108-113, figs. 6-11. 

Ravages of the larva of this Geometrid moth, apparently originating from Mexico or Lower 
California, in the Herbarium of the TJ. S. Department of Agriculture; enumeration of her- 
barium plants injured by larva; life-history of the species, and recommendations for its de- 
struction; notes on other Lepidoptera known to feed in the larval state mi dead and dry vege- 
tation; technical description of Garphoxera, nov. gen. and C.ptelearia n. sp. in all stages, and 
of the pterogostic characters of the genus; also figures of the following Deltoid moths with 
their larva: Helia cemula, H. americalis, and Xanthognatha minivalis. 
Charles V. Riley. Further notes on Panchlora. 

Insect Life, IV, Nos. 3 and 4, November. 1801, pp, 119, 120, fig. 12. 

Description of the egg mass and of the individual egg of Panchlora viridus, and further 
evidence of the viviparity in this Blattid. Figure of the egg mass. 
Charles V. Riley. Scope and Importance of Entomology; Classification. 
Boston Transcript, December 29, 1891. 

Editorial abstract and notice of the first lecture on entomology given by C. V. Riley at the 
Lowell Institute, Boston, Mass 
Charles V. Riley. Means of dealing with our insect foes. Insecticides "and in- 
secticide apparatus. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 1892. 515 

Charles V. Riley — Continued. 

Boston Transcript, January '_'. 1802. 

Editorial abstract of the second Lecture on entomology given l>y C. V. Riley, a1 th<> Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., December 31, 1891. 
Charles V. Riley. Natural checks' to insect injury; insects of international con- 
cern. 

Boston Transcript, January 5, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the third lecture on entomology given by C. V. Riley, at the Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., January 4. 1892. 
Charles V. Riley. Little known facts about well known household pests. 
Boston Transcript, January 8, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the fourth lecture on entomology given by C. V. Riley, at the Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., January 7, 1892. 
Charles V. Riley. Organized Insect Societies. 
Boston Transcript, January 12, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the fifth lecture on entomology by C. V. Riley, given at the Lowell In- 
stitute, Boston, Mass., January U\ 1892. The economy and social life of the honey bee, and 
the ant, and social wasps, were explained as the basis for a discourse on the development of 
intellect and reason in insects, the author finding that as in man the higher intellectual devel- 
opment and social organization have resulted from the long period of infantile dependence; 
so in these insects the long period of larval dependence may be considered Hie primary cause 
of their high intelligence and organization among insects. 

Charles V. Riley. Galls and Gall-insects : Caprification : Parasitism. 

Boston Transcript. January 15, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the sixth lecture on entomology by C. V. Riley, given at the Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., January 11, 1892. 
Charles V. Riley. Our Shade Tree Defoliators. 

Boston Transci ipt, January 19, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the seventh lecture on entomology by C. V. Riley, given at the Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., January 18, 1892. 
Charles V. Riley. The Interrelation of Plants and Insects. 

Boston Transcript, January 22, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of the eighth lecture on entomology by C. V. Riley, given at the Lowell 
Institute, Boston, Mass., January 21, 1892. 

Charles V. Riley. The Gypsy Moth. 

Boston Commonwealth, January 23, 1892. 

Eull text of the second part of C. V. Riley's seventh lecture on Entomology, given at the 
Lowell Institute, Boston, Mass., January 19, 1892. Important points in the natural history 
of the imported Gypsy Moth (Ocneria dispar). Review of the means adopted in Massachu- 
setts by the State authorities for the eradication of the insects; insufficiency and futility of 
the work hitherto done; suggestions of measures to be adopted; the probable future course 
of the insect. 
Charles V. Riley. Late experience in dealing with insects injurious to fruit. 

Boston Transcript, January 26, 1892. 

Editorial abstract of a lecture on the above subject given before the Massachusetts Horti- 
cultural Society, Boston, Mass., January 23, 1892. The following topics were discussed: The 
Plum Curculio. its natural history and the arsenical poisons as a remedy against it; recent re- 
sults as to the" value of various arsenical mixtures in spraying orchard trees; combined Insect- 
icides and Fungicides; the Hydrocyanic acid gas treatment; Resin Washes; the Fluted Scale, 
and the importation of Vedalia cardinalis; some new insect enemies to fruit; the Apple 
Maggot; danger of the possible introduction of some foreign fruit insects; conclusion. 
Charles V. Riley. Reports of observations and experiments in the practical work 
of the division, made under the direction of the entomologist. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology , Bulletin No. ^i. Washington, 
Government Printing < Office, January, 1892. 

Contains the following: Letter of transmittal by ('. V. Riley, p. 5; Introduction, pp.7, 8; 
report upon insect depredations in Nebraska for 1891, by Lawrence Bruuer, pp. 9-12; report on 
the scale insects of California, by I). W. Coquillet, pp. 13-35; entomological notes for the 
season of 1891, by Mary E. Murtfeldt, pp. 36-44; report of progress in the investigation of 
the Cotton Bollworm, by F. W. Mally, pp. 45-56; insects of the season in Iowa, by Her- 
bert Osborn, pp. 57-62; report of entomological work of the season of 1891, by F. M. Webster, 
pp. 63-74; report upon the Gypsy Moth of Massachusetts, by Samuel Henshaw, pp. 75-82; 
report of Agricultural Experiments in 1891, by A. J. Cook, pp. 83-92. 



516 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Charles V. Riley. Reports on the damage hy Destructive Locusts during the 
season of 1891. Made under the direction of the Entomologist. 

JJ. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology, Bulletin No. 27, Washington, 
Government Printing Office, January, 1892. 

Contains the following: Letter of transmittal, by C. V. Riley, p. 5; Introduction, by C. "V. 
Riley, p. 7; report on Destructive Locusts, by Lawrence Bruner (including reports of C. B. 
Waldron, H. E. Stockbridge, and Otto Lugger, the latter report being a reprint from Bulletin 
No. 17, Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station), pp. 9-33; report on the Locust Invasion 
of California in 1891, by D. W. Coquillet, pp. 34-57; report of a trip to Kansas to investigate 
reported damages from grasshoppers, by Herbert Osborn (reprinted from Insect Life, IV, p. 
49), pp. 58-04. 
Charles V. Riley. Applied Entomology in the United States. 

American Agriculturist, Li, January 1892, p. 38. 

Importance assumed by economic entomology in the United States, and outline ol' its his- 
tory; enumeration of injurious insects of national importance that have of late years been 
thoroughly studied; brief review of the more recently discovered insecticides and insecticide 
appliances ; use of contagious disease germs in entomology ; outlook of the, science in the future. 
Charles V. Riley. Flowers and insects. 

Daily Eagle, Brooklyn, N. T„ February 3, 1892. 

Full editorial abstract of a lecture given by C. V. Riley before the Brooklyn Institute at 
Brooklyn, N. Y., February 2, 1892. Fertilization of dowering plants by insects, and mutual 
adaptation in the structure of flowers and insects; fertilization of Yucca by Pronuba insectiv- 
orous plants; generalizations and conclusions. 
Charles V. Riley. The Plum Curculio, an American insect. 

California Orchard and Farm, March, 1892. 

Evidence to prove that Gonotrachelus nenuphar is a native of North America, and that its 
reported occurrence in Europe and the assertion of its European origin are unfounded; enum- 
eration of European Curculionidce which infest stone fruit and which are liable to be mis- 
taken for the Plum Curculio. 

Charles V. Riley. Leaf-cutting ants. 

Scientific American, April 2, 1892. 

In reply to inquiry from a correspondent in Texas relating to a remedy for the leaf-cutting 
ant (Oecodoma fervens). Description of the nest of the ants and various means for extermi- 
nating the inhabitants; experience with cyanide of potassium as a remedy. 
Charles V. Riley. The larger digger wasp. 

Insect Life, IV, Nos. 7 and 8, April, 1892, pp. 248-252, Figs. 32-38. 

Sphecius speciosus as an enemy of Cicada pruinosa , its mode of attacking and paralyzing the 
Cicada ; remarkable effect of the sting of fossorial wasps ; rapid development of the larva ; spin- 
ning of the cocoon; curious pores of the cocoon : hibernation and pupation. Original figures 
of speciosus in all stages, also figures of its burrows, mode of carrying a Cicada, mode of feed- 
ing of the larva, and the spinning of the cocoon. 

Charles V. Riley. Speech of Prof. ('. V. Kiley. 

Reprinted from the Third Report on the Missouri Botanical Garden, for 1891, May, 1892, pp. 
50-53. 

Speech delivered at the second banquet of the trustees of the Missouri Botanical Garden, 
and eulogizing the late Mr. Henry Shaw, and tin- work which be did for St. Louis, Mo. Con- 
nection of entomology with the garden. Need of a national botanic garden. 
Charles V. Riley. The Yucca Moth and Yucca Pollination. 

Third Annual Report of the Missouri Botanical Garden, 1891, St. Louis, Mo., May, 1892, pp. 
99-158, pis. xxxiv-xliii. Also separate author's copies issued May 28, 1892. 

Part i of the paper deals with the pollination of Yucca by Pronuba and contains the follow- 
ing chapters: Introductory: fertilization of plants generally; connection of Yucca and. Pro- 
nuba; structural characteristics of Pronuba; the acts of pollination and oviposition; devel- 
opment of theegg and larva; transformations of Pronuba; effect of puncture on the fruit; ef- 
fect of fertilization on the stalk; dates of the flowering of Yuccas and appearance of the 
moth: Pronuba the only insect pollinizer; general considerations; the bogus Yucca moth. 
Part if is devoted to descriptive details and contains the following headings: Internal struct- 
ure of Pronuba yuccasella with reference to the reproductive organs ; the ovipositor; the 
species of Pronuba and generic characters of Pronuba; the species of Roddoxus. The 
following species are described as new: Promtba synthetica, I'rodoxus pulvcrulentus, Pro- 
doxus y -inversus, Prodoxus reticulatus, Prodoxus coloardenses, Prodoxus sordidus. The plates 
contain many original figures illustrating anatomical or structural details of Yuccas and 
Yucca Moths. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 517 

Charles V. Riley. Report of the Entomologist. 

Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, L891, Washington Government Printing Office, 
1892, with table of contents and index. 

Contains the following : Introduction, pp. 231,232; the work of the season, pp.232 246 de 
struetive Locusts, pp. 246-252; insecticides, pp. 252-266. 
Charles V. Riley. Note on the Life Habits of Megilla maculata. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, n. No, 2. June :ii>, 1892, pp. 168, 169. 
Vegetable feeding habit ofthe adult ; comparison of tin- larva with those of other Coccinel- 
lidce. 
Charles V. Riley. . On the larva and some peculiarities of the cocoon of Sphecius 

spcrioSUS. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, II, No. 2, Jane iiO, 1892, pp. 170-172. 
Description of the larva and cocoon of Sphecius speeiosus and explanation of the tabes pro- 
jecting from an opening on the exterior of the cocoon. 

Charles Y. Riley. Mexican Jumping Beans. The determination ofthe plant. 
Proceedings 'Entomological Society of Washington, n. No. -. June 30, 1892, pp. 178-181. 
The food-plant of Garpocapsa saltitans hitherto unknown excepting by popular name, or 
incorrectly referred to the genus Colliguceja belongs to the genus Sebastiania, of which three 
(undescribed) species were recently collected in Mexico. General characteristics of these 
plants and synoptic table, prepared by Mr. J. N. Rose, of the three species with diagnosis of 
the genus Sebastiania. Probable mode of oviposition in Garpocapsa saltitans. 
Charles Y. Riley. On the insects affecting the Agave. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, n, No. 2, June 30, 1892, pp. 210,211. 
Enumeration, with short notes, of six species of insects obtained from the flower-stems of 
Agave dasylyrium, from Texas. 
Charles Y. Riley. A probable Micror/asier parasite of flleodes in the imago state. 
Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, II, No. 2, June 30, 1892, p. 211. 
Enumeration of European species of Apanteles, bred from Coleoptera, and announcement of 
the discovery of a species apparently belonging to Microgasterini. the larva of which devel- 
oped in the abdomen of an adult Eleodes saturates, from Nebraska. 
Charles Y. Riley. Our American Ox Warbles. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, II, No. 2, June 30, 1892, pp. 212, 213. 
Resume of observations made in Europe, and establishing the specific distinction of Hypo- 
derma lineata from H. bovis; proof that the North American "Heel-Fly"' belongs to the 
former species. The occurrence of H. bovis in America is doubtful. 
Charles Y. Riley. Further note on Varpocapsa saltitans and on a new Grapholitha 
producing Juniping-Beans. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington. II, No. 2, Jane 30, 1892, pp. 213,214. 
The moth bred from the capsules of Sebastiania bilocularis Watson, proves to !„■ different 
from Garpocapsa saltitans, ami is described as Grapholitha sebastiania'. n. sp. 
Chari.es Y . Riley. Fig insects in Mexico. 

Proceedings Entomological Society of Washington, n, No. 2, June 30, 1892, pp. 214,215. 
Enumeration of Hymenopterous insects (4 forms) cut from a dried fruit of a Eicus from 
Mexico, all species proving to be different from the fig insects found in southern Florida. 
Charles V. Riley. The Ox Bot in the United states. Habits and natural history 
of Hypoderma lineata. 

Insect Life, IV, Nos. 9 and 10, June, 1892, pp. 302-317 Fins. 44-55. 

Proof that the American Ox Warble is Hypoderma lineata, and not H. bovis-, Dr. Cooper 
Curtice's investigations of the life history of H. lineata ; mode of oviposition and character- 
istics of the egg; how the larva enters the body of the animal ; migrations ofthe larva within 
the body of the cattle; its slow development, anil the various forms assumed by it; differ- 
ences between the larva of H. bovis and II. lineata ,- description of the egg; the four states of 
the larva; the puparium and the imago; comparison of the imagos of the two species; sum- 
mary and conclusions. The original figures illustrate all stages of II. lineata. 
Charles V. Riley. The Yucca Moth and Yucca pollination. 
Popular Silence Monthly, xi.i. Jim.', 1892, pp. 171-182, 10 fi>s. 

A reprint, with omissions, from the first part of paper published in Third Annual Report 
Missouri Botanical Harden, 1892, pp. 99-158. 
Charles Y. Riley. Directions for collecting and preserving insects. 

Bulletin of the V. S. National Museum. No. 30, Part F. pp. [11-(147J. pi. I, 139 text figures. 



518 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Charles V. Riley — Continued. 

The subject is treated after the following scheme: Characteristics of insects; scope and im- 
portance of entomology ; classification of Hexapods; collecting; killing and preserving in- 
sects; entomotaicy; insect boxes and cabinets; arrangement of insects in the cabinet; museum 
pests, mold, etc.: the rearing of insects; directions for packing and transmitting insects; 
notes and memoranda; instructions for collecting and preserving Arachnids and My riapods; 
text -books and entomological works; how to obtain entomological books and pamphlets. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. The three pear tree Psyllas. 

Tnseet Life, IV, Nos. 3 and 4, November, 1801, pp. 127, 128. 

A list ract of a paper by Dr. F. Loew, pointing out the differences in life habits of the three 
specimens of Psylla (Ps. pyrisuga, Ps.pyri, and Ps. Pyricola) known to infest pear trees in 
Germany and Austria, with a synoptic table of the structural characters. Also characteris- 
tics of a fourth species, Ps. sinvulans, which has been found in England on pear trees. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. An interesting aquatic bug. 

Tnseet Life, iv, Nos. 5 and C, December, 1891, pp. 198-200, Fig. 22. 

Original figure and characteristics of a remarkable North American aquatic Heteropteron 
assigned to the family Hydrobatidce, and must nearly related to the genus Metrobateg. Subse- 
quently (1. c. Nos. 9 and 10, June, 1892, p 321) Dr. E. Bergroth named the inse< t ltheumatobates 
rileyi. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. The Potato-Tuber Moth. (Ufa solanella 
Boisd. ) 

Insect Life, iv, Nos. 7 and 8. April, 1892, pp. 239-242, Fig. 27. 

Ravages of Lita solanella in New Zealand, Tasmania and Australia; Mr, Tryon's account 
of its habits and life-history ; appearance of the insect in California in 1891 ; suggestion of 
preventive measures ;. figures of the insect in all states, and mode of work of the larva in a 
potato. 
Charles Y. Riley and L. O. Howard. A genus of Mantis. Egg parasites. 

Insect Life, iv. Nos. 7 and 8, April, 1892, pp. 242-245, Figs. 28-31. 

Wide geographical distribution and specific richness of the Chalcidid genus rodagrion, 
which lives parasitically in the eggs of Mantids : history and systematic position of Podagrion , 
arrangement of the individual eggs in the egg-mass of Stagmomantis Carolina, and of an un- 
named Australian Mantid; mode of issuing of the young Mantids and the parasites from the 
egg-mass; figures of Podagrion mantis, egg-mass of Stagmomantis earolina; cross-section of 
the same, and of the egg-mass of an Australian Mantid. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. The Pea and Bean Weevils. 

Insect Life, iv, Nos. 9 and 10, June, 1892, pp. 297-302, Figs. 40-43. 

Resume of the life history of Bruchus pisi, and evidence as to whether the larva destroys the 
germ of the pea; natural history of Bruchus fabce, and points wherein it differs from that of 
B.pisi; description of the first larva of B. fabce, the most remarkable character being the 
temporary legs. Figures of both species of Bruchus, and original figure of the first larva of 
B. fabce. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. The Locust and Grasshopper Outlook. 

Insect Life, iv, Nos. 9 and 10, June, 1892, pp. 321-323. 

Mainly a reproduction of a paper read before Section I of the American Association fur the 
Advancement of Science, at the Washington meeting (August. 1891) regarding the injury done 
by grasshoppers, and the movements of the migratory species in various parts of the United 
States in 1891. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. Some' Icerya and Pedalia notes. 

Insect Life. in. Nos. 11 and 12, August. 1801. pp. 439-441, Fig. 31. 

Perfected figures of the Australian Ladybird, Tedalia eardinalis, in the larva, pupa, and 
imago states. Account of the attempts to transport living Tedalias from California to the 
Cape Colony, New Zealand, and Egypt. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. Experiments with a Hate-Palm Scale. 

Insect Life, in, Nos. 11 and 12, August, 1891, pp. 441-143. 

A number of date-palm trees received in 1890 by the IT. S. Department of Agriculture from 
northern Africa with a view to establish them in California proved to be badly infested with 
a scale, Parlatoria zizyphi. After often repeated treatment with kerosene emulsions of vari- 
ous strengths the scales were finally exterminated without injury to the trees. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Howard. Some of the bred parasitic Hymenoptera 

in the National Collection. 

Insect Life, ill, Nos. 11 and 12. August, 1891, pp. 460-464. 

Systematic enumeration of the rearings of North American parasitic Hymenoptera of the 
families Tchneumonidce (subfamilies Tryphonince, Pimplince, and Trigonalidce.) Continued 
from Insect Life, in, No. 4, November, 1890, p. 158. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 519 

Charles V. Riley and L. 0. Howard. Some of the bred parasitic Hymenoptera in 

the National Collection. 

Insect Life, iv, Nos. 3 and 4. November, 1801, pp. 122-120. 

Continuation of paper in Insect Liu-, in. Nos. 11 and 12, August, 1891, p. 404, and covering 
tin- family Proctotrypidee (subfamilies Bethylince, Dryininee, Spalangiince, Ooraphronince, 
Scelionince, Platygostorinee, Proctotrypince, and IHapriince). 
Charles V. Riley and L. <>. HOWARD. (Editorials, reviews, and notes.) 

Insect Life, in, Nos. 11 and 12. August, 1891, and iv. Nos. Llo, October, 1891, to June, 1892. 

See table of contents of each number of Insect Life. 
Charles V. Riley and L. O. Hoavard. (Correspondence of the Division of Ento- 
mology, U. S. Department of Agriculture.) 

Insect Liu, in, Xos. 11 and 12, August, 1891, and IV, Nos. 1-10, October, 1891, to June, 1892. 
Selected letters from correspondents with the replies. 
Charles V. Riley and C. L. Marlatt. Wheat and Grass Sawtlies. 

Insect Life, IV, Nos. 5 and (i. December, 1891, pp. 168-179, Figs. 13-15. 

Review of previous records of Saw fly larva feeding on graminaceous plants; food habits of 
European species of Dolerus; general characteristics of Dolerus larva and distinguishing 
characters of the various forms observed in North America, with notes on their food habits; 
life history of Nematus mary\andicus with characteristics of the earlier stages ; food habits of 
a California species of Cephus w hich is described as G. occidentalis n. sp. ; notes on the para- 
sites of wheat sawtlies. and on remedial measures; original figure of Dolerus arvensis,- Ne- 
matus marylandicus, in all stages, and Cephus occidentalis larva, its mode of work, ami female 
imago. 

J. N. Rose. Notes on Aselepias glaueescens and J. data. 
Botanical Gazette, xvn, June, 1892, pp. 19:;. 191. 

These two species have generally been considered one and the same species, but it is here 
shown that there are good characteristics by which they can be separated. 
J. N. Rose. Two weeds new to the United States. 

Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, 1891, pp. 355-358, pis. 2. 

Descriptions and remarks upon Ordbafiche ramosa and Salsola Kali var. Tragus are given. 
Both are figured. 

E. A. Schneider and F. W. Clarke. (See under F. \V. Clarke.) 

R. W. Shufeldt. On the external characters of Festal Reindeer and other notes. 

Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, July, 1891, pp. 224-233. Four 
wood-cuts *in text. 

An anatomical article based upon a male and female foetus of the Reindeer, collected by 
Mr. L. M. Turner in Alaska, and now forming a part of the collection of spirit specimens of 
mammals iu the National Museum. 
R. W. Shufeldt. A female Piranga minx assuming the plumage of the male. 

The Auk, vm, No. 3, July, 1891, pp. 315. 316. 
R. W. Shufeldt. The collections of the late Prof. Parker, F. R. S. 
Science, xvin, No. 441, New York, July 17, 1891, pp. 39, 40. 
Recommending their purchase by the 0". S. National Museum. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Head-flattening as seen among the Navajo Indians. 

T)te Popular Sciente Monthly, New York. August, 1891, xxxix, No. 4, pp. 535-539, 3 figures 
in text. 

To some extent dissenting from the views of Sir William Turner, F. II. S., as to the distor- 
tion of the cranium seen in these Indians being always due to the strapping of the infants in 
their cradles. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Contributions to the comparative osteology of Arctic and Sub- 
arctic Water-biii Is. Part ix. 

Jour, if Aunt, a ml Phye., Lond., XXV., n. s., v, pt iv, art. 5, pis. xi. xn. London, July, 
1S91, pp. 509-525. 

Full and comparative account of the skeletons of many water birds contained in the col- 
lections of the National Museum. 
R. W. SHUFELDT. Where young amateur photographers cau be of assistance to 
science. 

The Amer. Naturalist, xxv, No. 295, Philadelphia, July, 1891, pp. 626-630, pi. xm, tig. 1. 
Illustrated by a plate of Iluteo borealis calurus, and a figure of the Tiger Salamander (A. 
tif,rinurn); specimens now belonging to the collection of the National Museum. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Further notes on the anatomy of the Heloderma. 
Nature, No. 1135, v. 44. London, July 30, 1891, pp. 294, 295. 



520 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

R. W. Shufeldt. Inspirational Archaeology. 

The Beligio- Philosophical Journal, n. s., II, No. 14, Chicago, August 29, 1891, pp. 214-216, 

3 figures in text. 

Exposing Mr. Hudson Tuttle, who in The Progressive Age claims to have had the spirit of 
an Indian instruct him in the manufacture of Indian arrow-points, which Mr. Tuttle states 
to he a lost art. The present article makes a study of the archaeological material in the 
Smithsonian Institution, and through it, refutes all that Mr. Tuttle has to say. 
R. W. Shufeldt. On the comparative osteology of the United States Columbidw. 
Proc. Zool. Sue. of Lond. Part 11, London, August 1, 1891, pp. 194-196. 
A comparative description of the skeletons of the pigeons in the collections of the National 
Museum, together with remarks upon the classification of the Columbidcr, and their proha- 
ble affinities. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Snake Dance of the Moquis. 

The Great Divide, VI, No. 2, Denver, Colo., October, 1891, pp. 24, 25, 1 plate. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Fossil Birds from the Equue Beds of Oregon. 

The American Naturalist, xxv, No. 297, Philadelphia, September, 1891, pp. 818-821. 
Preliminary abstract of the complete work, which did not appear until October, 1892, in The 
Journal of the Academy if Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Tertiary Fossils of North American Birds. 

The Auk, VIII, No. 4, New Tork, October, 1891, pp. 365-368. Abstract; see supra. 
Alludes to many new species. Description of a very large collection of fossil birds from 
Oregon, belonging to Prof. E. D. ('ope and Prof. Thos. Condon, of the Oregon University. 
Comparisons made with the entire collection of skeletons of existing birds in the National 
Museum, and with the fossil forms from Prof. A. C. Milne-Edwards of Paris. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Morphology of the Avian Brain. 

The Amer. Nat., xxv, No. 298, Philadelphia, October, 1891, pp. 900, 901. 
R. W. SHUFELDT. Indian Types of Beauty. No. 1. 

The A mil lean Field, xxxvi. No. 23, New York and Chicago, December 5, 1891, pp. 544, 545, 2 
figures in text. 

The first of a series of three papers on thi^s subject which originally appeared in the Ameri- 
can Field, but was subsequently copied by a number of other magazines and journals. There 
were also 250 reprints of the combined articles republished and distributed, repaged, same title, 
heavy paper covers. The work gives full-page figures of Indian women selected from among the 
Navajos, Zunians, Moquis, Apaches, Tumas, Mojaves, and other tribes, for their beauty, that 
is, women considered to be beautiful by the tribe to which, in any instance, they belonged. 
Comparative studies were made by the author of the ethnological material in the National 
Museum bearing upon this subject, especially in the matter of dress and ornaments used by 
Indians with the view of enhancing their native beauty. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Indian Types of Beauty. No. 2. 

The American Field, No. 24. December 12, 1891, pp. 566, 507, 3 figures in text. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Some observations on the Havesu-pai Indians. 

Proceedings 77. S. National Museum, xiv, pp. 387-390, pis. xxv. xxvi, Washington, 1891. 
Gives photographs of men, women, and children of this now nearly extinct tribe of Indians. 
The style of their houses is also shown, and the nature of the country where they now I've. 
R. W. Shufeldt. The Navajo Belt-Weaver. 
Ibid, pp. 391-393, pi. xxvil, Washington, 1891. 

The plate shows a Navajo woman weaving a belt, the figure being taken from a photograph 
made by the author in New Mexico. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Indian Types of Beauty. No. 3. 

The American Field, XXXVI, No. 25. New York and Chicago, December 19. 1891, pp.590, 591; 
3 figures in text. 
The last of the series. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Concerning the taxonomy of the North American Pygopodes, 
based upon their osteology. 

Jour. Anat. <C-Phys. (London), January. 1892, XXVI, pp. 199-203. 
R. W. Shufeldt and E. D. Cope. A contribution to the Vertebrate Paleontology 
of Texas. 

Proc. Amer. l'liil. Soc, xxx, April, 1892. 

Dr. Shufeldt' s share in this paper consists in his description of Oreccoides bsbomii Shuf. 
gen. et sp. nov., on pp. 125-127. Based on a taisonietatarsus of a fossil rail found by Prof. 
Cope in Texas. The species is dedicated to Prof. H. F. Osborn, of Columbia College, New 
York. Osteological collections of National Museum extensively used in comparison. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 521 

R. W. Shufeldt. Indian Jewelers. 

The Great Divide, VII, No. :!, Denver, Colo., May, 1892, p. 57, 2 figures in text. 

Two figures given of Navajo silversmiths, with specimens of work, workshop, etc. 
R. W. Shufeldt. Indian types of Beauty. 

The American Field, Cbicago, May, 1892. 

(250 copies: Reprints from xxxv, Nos. 23-25. Paper covers; title-page. Same title, pp. 24. 
8 full-page plates. I 

Charles Torrey Simpson. Notes on a collecting trip in Florida. 

Forest and Stream, N. Y., xxxvm, No. 5, p. 99, February 4, 1892. 

Charles Torrey Simpson. Notes on Unionidce. 

The Nautilus, v, pp. 80-88, December, 1891. 

These notes are principally devoted to the discussion of the mutual relations of Unio radia- 
tun and V. luteolus. 

R. E. C. Stearns. Edible shell notes for "The Nautilus." 
The Nautilus, v, No. 3, pp. 25. 26, July, 1891. 

Discusses various edible mollusks of the West American coast. 
R. E. C. Stearns. In memoriam — Dr. Wesley Newcomb. 

The Nautilus, V, No. 11, pp. 121-124, March, 1892. 
R. E. C. Stearns. List of North American laud and fresh-water shells received 
from the U. S. Department of Agriculture, with notes and comments thereon. 
Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, No. 844, pp. 95-106, July, 1891. 

This paper relates chiefly to land and fresh-water species collected iu the western states 
and territories. 
R. E. C. Stearns, List of shells collected on the west coast of South America, 
^ principally between latitude 7-30' S. and 8° 49' N., by Dr. W. II. Jones, Surgeon 
IT. S. Navy. 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.. xiv, No. 854, pp. 307-335, 1891. 

Tbis paper enumerates 211 species of marine shells, and the geographical distribution of 
many of them is shown to be greatly extended beyond that previously known for them. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Description of a new species of Chameleon from Kiliina- 
Njaro, eastern Africa. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. XIV, No. 857, pp. 353,354. 
Describes as a new species Chamceleo abbotti. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Description of a new Scincoid Lizard from East Africa. 
Proc. 77. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, No. 862, pp. 405, 406. 
Describes as a new species Lygosoma kilimensis. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Description of a new species of lizard from the Island San 
Pedro Martir, Gulf of California. 

Proc. TT. S. Nat. Mus. , xiv, No. 863, pp. 407, 408. Described as a new species Cnemido- 
phorus martyris. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Description of a new North American Lizard of the genus 
SauroHiahts. 

Proc. TT. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, No. 864, pp. 409-411. 
Describes as a new species Sauromalus hispidus. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Notes on Sceloporus variabilis and its geographical distri- 
bution in the United States. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xiv. No. 873, pp. 485-488. 
Shows it to occur over a considerable area of southwestern Texas. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Notes on some North American Snakes. 
Proc. F. S. Nat. Mus. , xiv, No. 870, pp. 501-505. 

Chiefly relating to geographical distribution. Introduces on good evideuce into the fauna 
of the United States Drymobius margaritiferus. 
Leonhard Stejneger. On the Snakes of the California genus lAchanura. 
Proc. TT. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, No. 878, pp. 511-515. 

Recognizes and diagnoses three speeies. viz: L. trivigata, roseofusca, and oreutti. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Preliminary description of a new genus and species of 
Blind Cave Salamander from North America. 

Proc. 77. S. Nat. Mus. , XV, No. 834, pp. 115-117, pi. ix. 

Describes as a new genus and species Typhlotriton spelwus, from Rock House Cave, Mo. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Directions for collecting Reptiles and Batrachians. 
Bull. TT. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part E, pp. [1]-[14], 5 text figs. 



5*22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Leon hard Stejneger — Continued. 

Brief directions for collecting, preserving, labelling, and transporting lierpetological speci- 
mens, chiefly for the use of correspondents of the Museum. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Annotated list of Reptiles and Batrachians collected liy 
Dr. C. Hart Merriam and party, in Idaho, 1890. 

North American Fauna, No. 5. July 30, 1891, pp. 109-113. 
Leonhard Stejneger and Frederick C. Test. Description of a new genus and 
species of Tailless Batrachian from Tropical America. 
Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., XIV, No. 847, pp. 167, 1G8, pi. in. 
Described as a new genus and species Tatraprionjordani. 

Leonhard Stejneger. Notes on Japanese Birds contained in the Science College 
Museum, Imperial University, Tokio, Japan. 

Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mas., XIV, No. 874, pp. 489-497. October 26, 1891. 
The following species are here for the lirst time introduced into the fauna of Japan: Aestrelata 
leucoptera, Glareola orientalis, Tringa ferruginea, Phaethon eandidus, Ardea purpurea, Hal- 
cyon pileata, Turdus hortulorum, Emberiza leucocephala, E.pusilla, and with some doubt, 
Erithacut sibilans, Lanius sphenocereus, and Munia atricapilla. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Notes on the Cubital Coverts in the Birds of Paradise and 
Bower Birds. 

Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Man., xiv, No. 875, pp. 499,500, October 29, 1891. 

Controverts Prof. J. G. Goodchild's observation as t • > the abnormality of the arrangement 
ol the cubital coverts in the Birds of Paradise and the Bower Birds, and shows it to be nor- 
mally Passerine. 
Leonhard Ste.ineger. Scott B. Wilson's "Aves Hawaiiensis." 

The Auk, tx, January, 1892. pp. 63,64. 
Review. 
Leonhard Stejneger. ('apt. Thomas Wright Blackiston, R. A. 
The Auk. IX, January, 1892, pp. 75.76. 
Obituary. 

Witmeu Stone. A Revision of the Species of Molothrus allied to M. lionariensis 
(Cm.). 

The Auk. VIII, No. 4. October, 1891. pp. 344-34S. 

An excellent and timely revision of a difficult group. One species, If. venezuelensis (p. 347), 
described as new. 
Z. L. Tanner, U. S. Navy. Report ou the investigations of the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion steamer Albatross for the year ending June 30, 1889. 

Report TJ. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, 1889 (1891), pp. 395-512, pis. l-lu. 
These investigations embraced the western coast of North America, from Alaska to Lower 
California, including the Gulf of California. In the text are many references to different 
forms of marine invertebrates which have not yet been separately reported upon. 

Z. L. Tanner, U. S. Navy. The fishing grounds of Bristol Bay, Alaska. A prelimi- 
nary report upon the investigations of the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Alba- 
Iross during the summer of 1890. 

Bull. F. S. Fish <\mi., IX, 1889 (1891), pp. 279-288, pis. CVIII-CX. 

During the cruise above mentioned many valuable invertebrates were obtained which will 
in time be transferred to the National Museum. 

Frederick C. Test, Leonhard Stejneger and. (See under Leonhard Stejne- 
ger.) 
William J. Thomson. Te Pito Te Henna, or Easter Island. 

Rejwrt of the Smithsonian Institution (TJ. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 447-552. pis. 
xn-LX; 20 text figs. 
Frederick W. Trie. The Puma, or American Lion: Felis Concolor of Linnaaus. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (TJ. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 591-608, pi. 
xciv. 
Frederick \Y. True. Report on the Department of Mammals in the U. S. National 
Museum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (C. S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 349-355. 
George Yasey. Report on the Department of Recent Plants in the National Museum, 
1889 (1891). 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution ( I T . S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), p. 399. . 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OP THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 523 

George Vasey. Grasses of the Southwest; plates and descriptions of the grasses 
of the desert region of western Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and southern Cali- 
fornia. 

Agricultural Department, Bulletin Division Botany, No. 12, Pt. 2. December, 1891, pi. 50. 

Contains descriptions and figures of 50 rare grasses from the desert region of the Southwest. 
George Vasey. Report of the botanist to the Secretary of Agriculture. 

Report of the Secretary of Agriculture, 1891, pp. 341-358, pi. 10. 
George Vasey. A new grass: Melica multinerva. 

Botanical Gazette, August, 1891, pp. 235,236. 
George Vasey. A neglected Spartina. 

Botanical Gazette, October. 1891, p. 272. 
GEORGE Vasey. Monograph of the grasses of the United States and British America. 

Contents National Herbarium, in, 1892, pp. 1-89. 

This is the first part of a monograph of the grasses of North America mirth of Mexico. 
Charles D. Walcott. Correlation papers, Cambrian. 

Bulletin U. S. Geological Survey, Jv'o. 81, 1891, pp. 447, 3 double plates and 5 text figs. 

This paper is an historical and descriptive work of the present knowledge of the Cambrian 
group of rocks of the North American continent. Chapter I gins a statement of the prin- 
ciples upon which the delineation of the group is made, with a lew brief remarks upon the 
nomenclature of the formation and a list of the hooks and articles consulted in the prepa-a- 
tion of the work. The second chapter contains a historical review of the geological and pale- 
ontological work that has been done in all provinces in which the Cambrian group occurs. 
Chapter m embraces a record of the names that have been employed to designate the various 
formations. Chapter iv gives a summary of the present knowledge of the formations in each 
of the four great geological provinces. A map showing the geographical distribution accom- 
panies this chapter; also, one on which the sedimentation is illustrated by vertical columns 
of strata. Chapter v deals with problems for investigation, and Chapter VI is devoted to the 
study of criteria and principles used by authors in the correlation of the various parts com- 
posing the Cambrian group. 
Charles D. Walcott. Preliminary notes on the discovery of a vertebrate fauna 
in Silurian (Ordovician) strata. 

Bulletin Geol. Soc. Am., ill, 1892, pp. 153-172, plates 3-5. 

This is a preliminary description of t lie discovery of a vertebrate fauna in the lower Silurian 
(Ordovician) strata. It includes a description of the locality and the stratigraphy of the 
geologic section and its contained vertebrate fauna, and a description of three new genera 
and species of fishes. 
Lestei: V. AVard. The Scieuce and Art of Government. 

Science, XVIII, New York, November 20, 1891. p. 281. 

Defines government as the business agency of the nation, and the science and art of govern- 
ment as those of conducting this business agency; hence lays stress on the importance of 
some system of instruction on these subjects as branches of education. Instruction in public 
administration and all governmental operations should form a prominent department of polit- 
ical economy teaching. 
Lester P. Ward. A national university, its character and purpose. 

Science, XVIII, New York, November 20, 1X91, pp. 2X1,282. 

Troposes a general plan for such an institution so as to make it truly representative in char- 
acter, the leading chair to be that of political science, with special prominence attached to in- 
struction in the science and art of government as outlined in the foregoing paper, all officers of 
the civil service to be ultimately selected from graduates of the national university. 

This paper and the last were read before Section I (economics) of the American Association 
for the Advancement of Science, :it Washington, D. C, August 20,1891. 
Lester P. Ward. Principles and methods of geologic correlation by means of fossil 
plants. 

Science. XVIII, New York. November 2D, 1891, p. 2S2. 

Abstract of a paper read before Section E (geology) of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science, at Washington, D. C, August 21, 1891. The paper appeared in full 
in the America,)?, Geologist for February, 1891. See resume under that date. 
Lester F.Ward. The Plant-hearing Deposits of the American Trias. 

Science, xvm. New York, November 20, 1891, p. 287, 288. 

Abstract of a paper read by title before Section E (geology) of the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science, at Washington, D. C, August 21, 1891; and in full before the 
Geological Society of America at the same place, August24, 1891. It was published in full in 
the Proceedings of the last named Society for that date. See infra for resume of contents. 



524 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Lester F. Ward. Fossil Botany, being an Introduction to Palaeophytology from 
the Standpoint of the Botanist. By H. Graf zu Solms-Laubach. Authorized 
English translation by Henry E. F. Garnsey. Revised by Isaac Bayley. 
Science, xvm, New York, December 25, 1891, pp. 360,361. 

Review of the above work, in which it is compared with other works of its class, and is 
shown to be of chief use in recording the opinion of the author on the nature of problemat- 
ical vegetable remains. The translation is severely criticised for not having been brought down 
to date, so that the author's latest decision in such cases could be known. 
Lester F. Ward. On the Glossopteris Flora. Remarks on a paper read by Dr. 
August Rothpletz before the Geological Society at Washington, I). C., August 24, 
1891, "On the Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic formations in the East Indian 
Archipelago." 

Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, III, 1891, p. 15. 

The view was taken that the Glossopteris flora originating in the Paleozoic contemporane- 
ously with the recognized Carboniferous flora, unlike the latter, and by virtue of its higher 
organization, persisted into Mesozoic time, .surviving the Permian refrigeration, and becoming 
modified, migrated northward, and reappeared at many points as the nowwell known Triassic 
Rhetic and Oolitic Flora. 
Lester F. Ward. The Plant-bearing Deposits of the American Trias. 

Bulletin of the Geological Societi/ of America, III. 1891, pp. 23-31. 

A critical analysis of the flora 'of the American Triassic deposits, with a view to their 
geologic correlation, both with one another and with those of other parts of the world. The 
facts establish the substantial identity in age of the several beds of the Atlantic slope and a 
close relation between these and those of New Mexico and Arizona; they also point to the 
European Keuper, as displayed in Austria, Wurtemburg and Switzerland, as the nearest 
homologue of the American Trias. 
Lester F. Ward. Administrative Report to the Director of the U. S. Geological 
Survey for the year ending .June 30, 1889. 

Tenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Surer y, 1888-'89, Washington, 1890, pp. 169-175. 
(Issued January, 1892.) 
Lester F. Ward. Principles and methods of Geologic Correlation by means of 
Fossil Plants. 

American Geologist, IX, Minneapolis, January, 1892, pp. 34-47. 

The law of homotaxis is first explained, with a historical account of the introduction of the 
term. The leading principles laid down are: First, that the great types of vegetation are 
characteristic of the great epochs in geology, so that very imperfect material may establish 
such epochs with certainty; second, that for deposits nearly related stratigraphically such 
imperfect material is not adequate, but an ample series of good specimens is required; third, 
that the accurate determination and classification of fossil plants is of purely biological im- 
portance and not of geological importance. The methods employed in the determination of 
the age of plant-bearing deposits are set forth in considerable detail. 
Lester F. Ward. Principes de Corr61ation Geologique an Moyen des Plautes Fos- 
siles. 

Ginqui&me Congres Oiologique International, Washington, 1891. Proces-Yerbaux des 
Seances Mercredi le 26 Aout k Mardi le 1 Septembre, 1891. Washington, 1892, pp. 26, 27. 

Brief summary of the part read before the International Geological Congress of a paper 
entitled "Principes et methodes d'etude de la correlation geologique au moyen des plantes 
fossiles," in which two of the principles were developed (see supra under date of August 28, 
1891). The paper was read in French, and a summary furnished in English, of which this is a 
translation, made by Dr. S. F. Emmons. For contents of the entire paper see last entry. 
Lester F. Ward. The utilitarian character of Dynamic Sociology. 
A merle mi Anthropologist, Vol.v, Wash! 1 gton, April, 1892, pp. 97-103. 

This article is a defense of the science of dynamic sociology as expounded in the work of 
that title against the charge of being a system of speculative philosophy devoid of practical 
bearing on living Issues. It is directed primarily to establishing broad principles looking to 
the amelioration of the social condition, but does not claim to set forth any particular scheme 
of social reform, that part belonging rather to the art of dynamic politics than to the science 
of dynamic sociology. The general doctrine embodying these principles is that of melioritim, 
which differs from philanthropy and liumanitarianism as popularly understood by proceeding 
according to the scientific method to establish the laws of social reorganization, such as w'll 
result in improving and reforming society. 
Lester F. Ward. Ueber Tertiapflanzen von Chile; von H. Engelhardt. Frank- 
fort, 1891. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 525 

Lester F. Ward — continued. 

Amer. Jowrn. Sci., xi.m. New Haven, April, is;i2, ]>i>. :s:;r>, 336. 

Notice of above memoir from Abhandl. <i. Senckbergischen naturf. Ges., Bd. xvi, S. 629-692. 

pis. I— XIV. 

Lester F. Ward. Miocene Plants from Northern Bohemia — Ueber fossile Pflanzen 
ans tertiaren Tuffen Nordbomeus — Ueber die Flora der liber den Braunkohlen 
befindlichen tertiarschichten von Dux; von H. Engelhardt. 
Amer. Jowrn. Sci., xliii, New Haven, April, 1892, pp. 336, 337. 

Notice of above memoirs, the first in Gen. lids, Abhandl. 3, Dresden, 1891, pp. 20-42, pi. I; 
the second in Nova Acta d. Ksl. Leop-Carol. Deutsch. Akad. d. Naturf., Bd. lvii, No. 3, Halle, 
1891, pp. 131-219, pis. I— xvil. 
Lester F. Ward. Calcareous Algae. Fossile Kalkalgen ans den Familien den 
Codiaceen und der Corallineen; von Herrn Rothpletz in Munchen, 1891. 
Amer. Jowrn. Sci.. Vol. xliii, New Haven, April, 1802, p. 337. 
Notice of above memoir in Zeitsehr. d. Deutsch. geol. Ges., Bd. xliii, Berlin, 1891, S. 295-322, 

pis. XV— XVII. 

Lester F. Ward. On the Fructification of Bennettites Gibsonianus, (air.; by II. 
Graf zu Solms-Laubach, London, 1891. 

Amer. Jowrn. Sci. , xliii, New Haven, April, 1892, p. 337. 

Notice of above memoir in Annuls of Botany, Vol. v, November, 1891, pp. 419-454, pi. XXV, 
xxvi. For fuller notice of the original German in Bot. Zeitung, see Amer. Jour. Sci., for 
April, 1891, (Vol. xli, p. 331). 

Lester F. Ward. Le Nelumbinm Provinciale des Lignites de Fuveau en Provence 
par le Marquis G. de Saporta, Paris, 1890 L. 

Amer. Jowrn: Sci., xliii, New Haven, April, 1892, pp. 337, 338. 

Notice of above memoir in Mem. Soc. Geol. de France, Tome I, Fasc. 3, Mem. No. 6, p. 9, 

pis. XII-XIV. 

Lester F. Ward. Reserches sur la Vegetation dn niveau Aquitanien de Manos- 
quepar le Marquis G. de Saporta, Paris, 1891. 

Amer. Journ. Sci., xliii, New Haven, April, 1892, p. 338. 

Notice of above memoir in Mem. Soc. Geol. de France, Tom u, Nympheinees, Fasc. 1, 
Mem. No. 9, pp. 22, pi. HI— VI; u, Palmiers, Fasc. 2, Mem. No. 9, pp. 23-34, pis. IX— XI. 

Lester F. Ward. Remarks on the law of corrasiou. 

Proc. of the Philosophical Soc. of Washington, October 27, 1888. Bulletin, Vol. xi, Wash- 
ington, April, 1892, pp. 519, 520. 

Abstract of remarks upon a paper read by Maj. J. W. Powell on the laws of corrasion, de- 
scribing the manner in which the Missouri River erodes its banks. 

J. Elfreth Watkins. The Infancy of the Mechanic Arts. 

Read before the Engineering Section of the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science, at Washington City, August, 1891, an abstract appearing in the Proc. Amer. Asso.for 
the Advancement of Sci., 1891. 
J. Elfreth Watkins. Importance of Preserving Historical Relics. 

Read before the joint meeting of the Old-Time Telegrapher's Association and the Military 
Telegrapher's Association, of Washington City, August, 1891, and published in the Proceed- 
ings of the Old Time Telegrapher's Association and Military Telegrapher's Association, 1891. 

J. Elfreth Watkins. The Camden and Amboy Railroad Origin and Early History. 
An address delivered at Bordentown, N. J., Nov. 12, 1891, upon the completion of the mon- 
ument erected by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to mark the first piece of track laid 
between New York and Philadelphia; and to commemorate the sixteenth anniversary of the 
first movement by steam upon a railway in the State of New Jersey, November 12, 1831. 

Bordentown Monument Memorial Volume, issued by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 
and The Pailtcay Review, Chicago, November and December, ism . 

J. Elfreth Watkins. (Editor.) Numerous Editorials ami Contributions upon 
Topics relating to Invention. 
Published in the Inventive Age. 

J. Elfreth Watkins. (Editor.) Celebration of the Beginning of the Second Cent- 
ury of the American Patent System, at Washington City, D. C, April 8, 9, 10, 

1891. 

Published by the Executive Committee, Patent Centennial Celebration, Washington City, 
1892. 



526 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

J. Elfreth Watkins. The Development of the American Rail and Track, as il- 
lustrated by the collection in the U. S. National Museum. 

Reprinted, 1892, from the Report of the Smithsonian Institution (1". S. National Museum), 
1889 (1891). Also reprinted in Engineering, London, beginning with June 10, 1892. 
J. Elfreth Watkins. Ramsden Dividing Engine. 

Reprinted from the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1891. 
.(. Elfreth Watkins. Log of the .Savannah. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum), 1890 (1891), pp. 611-639. 
J. Elfreth Watkins. Report on the Section of Transportation and Engineering in 
the U. S. National Museum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U. S. National Museum) 1889 (1891), pp. 293-299. 
Harris H. Wilder. Die Nasengegend von Menopoma alleghdnieme nnd Am- 
pkiuma tridactylum nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Morphologic des Humus oph- 
thalmicus profundus trigemini. 

ZoolJahrb., Abth. Anat., v. ii, May. 1892, pp. 155-176+pls. XII, XIII. 
George H. Williams. The Nonfeldspathic Intrusive Rocks of Maryland, and the 
coarse of their alteration. 

American Geologist, vi. July. 1890, No. 1. 

A description of some interesting pyroxenic eruptives collected by Mr. George P. Merrill, 
near Webster, N. C. 
Thomas Wilson. (Anthropological notes in the American Naturalist.) 

Proceedings of the International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archaeology, 
XXV, No. 295, .Inly. 1891, pp. 675-679 ; No. 296, August, ls:il pp. 764-768; No. 297, September, 
1891, pp. 840-844; No. 299, November, 1891. pp. 1031-1034. 

Proceedings of Section H (Anthropology) at the American Association for Advancement of 
Science, held in Washington, D. C, August 17-25, 1891; No. 298, October, 1891, pp. 929-935; 
No. 299, November, 1891, pp. 1037-1039. 
Prehistoric Man ol Spy; No. 299. November, 1891, pp. 1034-1037. 
Thomas Wilson. La Pe'riode Paleolithique dans l'Amerique du Nord. IX. Congres 
Internationale des Americanistes. Paris, 1890. Ernest Leroux, editeur, Paris, 
1892, 32 pp., 8vo. 
Thomas Wilson. Report on the Department of Prehistoric Anthropology in the 
U. S. National Museum, 1889. 

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 317-339, pis. 

V-XI. 

William S, Yeates and Edward F. Ayres. Plattnerite and its occurrence near 
Mullan, Idaho. 

Amer.Jovrn. Sei., XLIII, May, 1892. p. 4117. 

A resitm6 of published papers on plattnerite; a description of its occurrence in Idaho; its 
physical characteristics and blowpipe reactions; an analysis; ;i discussion of its specific grav- 
ity, with a determination placing it at 8.56, and a discussion of its crystallographic form 
assigning the mineral to the tetragonal system, are here given. 



SECTION V. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING 
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1892. 



527 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



Abbott, W. H. .(U. S. Fish Commission). Twenty-seven specimens of Corydalus 
cornutus and one of Orthosoma brunneiim. 24672. 

Abbott, Dr. W. L. (Bombay, India). A very interesting and valuable collection, 
consisting of 362 birds' skins, sternum of hawk, Haliceetus leucoryphus, a rope 
made of goat's bair and used by tbe coolies in Kashmir, in packing their loads, 
mammal skins and skulls obtained in Kashmir and Baltistan, including speci- 
mens of the Himalayan ibex and Vigne's sheep. 25470. 

Abel, J. C. (Lancaster, Pa.). Ninety-three stone objects found along theConestoga 
streams near Lancaster (24992) ; 64 arrow-points, fragments of pottery, and other 
objects found near Little Washington (25197) ; 187 archaeological objects, con- 
sisting of rude implements, chips, flakes, broken arrow and spear-heads, scrapers 
of quartz, quartzite, jasper, and chert, also fragments of pottery from tbe Con- 
estoga Hills (25255) ; 44 stone implements from near Lancaster (25314) ; 190 
small rude implements, arrow and spear-heads, and other objects from Little Wash- 
ington and Lancaster (25349); 18 rude chipped implements, hammer-stone, 
arrow-bead and similar archaeological objects from near Wheatland (25466); 80 
rude implements, arrow-heads of white quartz, small rude implements of argil- 
lite, hammer-stones, stone used for polishing or grinding, rude chipped imple- 
ment, chips and flakes of quartz, and pebbles (25722); 137 rude implements, 
worked flakes, arrow-heads and flakes of quartzite, arrow-heads, worked flakes, 
and other objects of flint, jasper and felsite, arrow-beads of day, slate, and 
argillite from the Conestoga Hills (25740) : *83 archaeological objects from the 
same locality (25796). 

Abert, Dr. Charles (Rockville, Md.). Black-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus erythropthal- 
mus (24659); black-throated blue warbler (Dendroica ccerulescens), in the flesh 
(25657). 

Adams, A. A. (Warren, Ohio). Spider (Epeira insularis Hentz). 24970. 

Adams, Mrs. Sarah M. (Momence, 111.). Silk-moth (Telea polyphemus). 25805. 

Adler, Dr. Cyrus (U. S. National Museum). Collection of arms, instruments, 
manuscripts, and parts of costumes from Egypt (gift) (24683) ; Soudanese girdle 
worn by women, and a camel driver's coat from the Upper Nile region (deposit) 
(25565); Hebrew charm, manuscript on parchment (gift) (25878). (See under 
Dr. John P. Peters.) 

Agassiz, Prof. Alexander. (See under Fish Commission, U. S.). 

AGEE, N. A. (Perdue Hill, Ala.). Specimens of yellow ocher. 25208. 

Agriculture, Department of. A very interesting collection of land and fresh- 
water shells from various localities in Arizona, vicinity of Death Valley and 
adjacent region (24542); land and fresh- water shells from Brownsville, Tex., 
collected by William Lloyd (24636); 3 gray seals from Labrador (25139). 



*This collection not entered in Museum register until August 4, 1892. The record 
will appear in the Report for 1892-'93. 

II. Mis. 114, pt. 2 34 529 



530 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Agriculture, Department of— Continued. 
Division of Forestry. 45 photographs (24531); 18 photo-micrographs of woods of 
the United States (24532); 12 distribution charts of trees of the United States, 
prepared by Mr. C. S. Sargent, special agent of the Tenth Census (24533). De- 
posit. 
Division of Ornithology and Mammalogy (through Dr. C. Hart Merriam). Three 
hundred and twenty-three birds' eggs and 55 birds' nests from California, Nevada, 
Utah, and Texas (25006); 3 portions of Elephas hones (25268). 
Division of Entomology (through Prof. C. V. Riley ). One hundred and seventy speci- 
mens representing 11 species of rare coleoptera, new to the collection, obtained 
in San Diego and Los Angeles counties, Cal., by Mr. D. W. Coquillet (24628); 
type specimens representing 5 new species of boinbylidse, consisting of Lordotus 
juncetis Coq., Lordotus diversus Coq., Toxophora vasta Coq., Paracosmus insolens 
Coq., Amphicosmus elegans Coq., 8 species of rare coleoptera, 7 species of rare 
orthoptera, collected by Mr. Coquillet (24816); 3,473 specimens representing 636 
species of insects from the Death Valley Expedition, March and April of 1889, col- 
lected by A. Koebele (24889); large series of hymenoptera and homoptera, col- 
lected by Mr. Coquillet in southern California (24890); collection of miscellane- 
ous insects, including biologic material, collected by Mr. E. G. Schaupp, ( lypress 
Mill, Tex. (24897); 24 species of North American coleoptera, new to the collec- 
tion (21940); 8 species of Australian heniiptcra collected by Mr. J. G. O. Tepper, 
of Adelaide, South Australia (24941); 78 specimens representing 25 species of in- 
sects, mostly lepidoptera, collected by Mr. Coquillet in California (24950); 55 
specimens of Californian orthoptera, representing 21 species, some of which are 
new to the collection, obtained by Mr. Coquillet (25005); about 200 specimens 
of various orders of insects, collected by Mr. C. G. Schaupp in Burnet County, Tex. 
(25110); 236 specimens representing 35 species of North American coleoptera, 
and 35 specimens, representing 4 species of New Zealand Coecinnellidce, collected 
by Mr. Coquillet (25111); 28 specimens representing 4 species of Australian 
CocdnnelidoB, 245 specimens representing 51 species of Californian coleoptera. 
81 specimens representing 31 species of Californian lepidoptera, 200 specimens 
representing 59 species of Californian hymenoptera. 246 specimens represent- 
ing 64 species of Californian hemiptera. and 182 specimens representing 18 
species of Californian diptcra (bombylida-), including types of new species, 
collected by Mr. Coquillet (25356); 43 specimens representing 17 species of neu- 
roptera, 31 specimens representing 7 species of orthoptera, and 130 specimens 
representing 43 species of hemiptera, collected by Mr. Coquillet in Los Angeles 
(25400); collection of insects of all orders, made in the northwestern states, 
British Columbia, and Alaska (25554). 
Division of Botany (through Dr. George. Vasey). Specimen of the "travelers tree" 
of Mexico. 25287. 
Ainley, John H. (Rapid City, S. Dak.). Specimen of hornblendic schist showing 

free gold from the Cross Mine, Pennington County. 25396. 
Alaska Commercial Company (San Francisco, Cal.). (See under B. C. Winston.) 
Aldrich, J. M. (Brookings, S. Dak.), through Prof. C. V. Riley. Twenty speci- 
mens representing 6 species of North American hymenoptera. 25358. 
Alexander, Johx (Nicosari, Bonora, Mexico). Silver ore. 25189. 
Albert, Philip (Shawnee, Pa), through Dr. R. E. 0. Stearns. A stone pestle from 

Monroe County. 24677. 
Allkn. C. M. (Butte, Mont,), through Messrs. Packard and Melville of the U.S. 

Geological Survey. Copper matte. 24790. 
ALLEN, GEORGE A. (U. S. Indian agent. Colorado River Agency. Parker, Ariz.). 
Specimens of Pepsis formosa Say. and Sphcerophthalma creusa Cress. ; skins of two 
rare bats, Macroius californicus and Molossus californicus (25046) ; specimens of 
Trombidium, n. sp., near giganfeum Riley (25402). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 531 

Allen, Ira R. (Fair Haven, Vt.). Two cul specimens of spessaxtite from Amelia, 
Va. 25739. 

Allen, Rev. Jonatjian (president of Albert 1 fhiversity, Alfred Centre, N. Y.). Four- 
teen specimens of natural formation from New Jersey, resembling stone objects. 
25056. 

American Museum of Natural History (New York City, N. V.). Ninety-one 
specimens, representing 31 species of birds' skins, from Chapada, Matto Grosso, 
Brazil. Exchange. 25222. 

Ames, Dr. Howard E. (U. S. Navy). Two scorpions from Peru; skin of penguin 
from the coast of Chile; specimens of reptiles, crustaceans, and ophiurans from 
the west coast of South America; and 25 species of lishes from the West Indies 
and South America. 24892. 

Ami, Henry M. (Geological Survey Department, Ottawa, Canada). Eight spec- 
imens of black-nosed dace (BMnichthys nasutus and Bhiniehthys aironasits). 
25440. 
(See under Geological Survey of Canada). 

Ancey, C. F. (Boghari, Algeria). Ten species of rare African shells (25320); 12 
species of land and fresh-water shells from Africa (25465); 27 species of African 
shells (25556). Exchange. 

ANDERSON, J. V. (Little Creek, Del.). American barn owl (StrLr praMncola). 
25704. 

Andrews, A. H., & Company (Chicago, 111. ). Goff 's historical chart of North Amer- 
ica, No. 1. 25348. 

Andrus, W. J. (Hackensack, N. J.). Two specimens of buff Pekin bantams. 25635. 

Angell, G. W. J. (New York City). Oue hundred and eight specimens, represent- 
ing about 50 species of exotic coleoptera (24667) ; specimen of Zophobas morio, 
and specimen of Strophosomus coryli, from Florida and New Jersey. (24675). 
Exchange. 

Anthony, E. &. H. T., & Company (New York City). One pound each of Madge- 
burg, Nelson's Amber, and Nelson's Special Opaque Gelatine. 25577. 

Armistead, L. C. (Hendersouville, Tenn.). Miniature head of clay resembling an 
idol, from Sumuer County. 25188. 

Armitage, John H. (Jamestowu, N. Y.). Specimen of chrysotile from Canada. 
25643. 

Armstrong, Edward (Pittsburg, Pa.). Specimens of giant water-bug (Benacus 
griseus). 25798. 

Armstrong, F. B. (Brownsville, Tex.). Four skins of Texan screech owl (llegas- 
cops asio maccallii) (24544) ; 4 eggs (one set) of white-tailed kite (Elanus hu- 
eurus) (25761). Purchase. 

Arnheim, Julius S. (Sau Francisco, Cal.). Land and marine shells from Alaska 
and California. (.24539, 25847 ). 

Arrington, W. A. (Arrington, Va.). Specimens of rnassive apatite, apatite and 
menaccanite, and kaolin, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates. U. S. National Museum. 
24714. 

Atkinson, Edward (Boston, Mass.), through Prof. W. O. Atwater. Specimens of 
rice, millet, and other food products used in China. 25765. 

Attwatkr, Prof. H. P. (Rockport, Tex.). Fggs of Chondestes grammacus strigatus, 
Mimns polyglottus and Vireo noveboracensis, and eggs of Cardinalis cardinalis and 
Mimus polyglottus, a very interesting series selected to show extremes in size 
and coloration (25441); eggs of Otocoris alpestris giraudi and 2 nests (new to 
the collection) (25669); eggs of Texan horned owl {Otocoris alpestris giraudi) 
(25782-). 

Atwater, Prof. W. O. (See under Edward Atkinson.) > 

Auckland Museum (Auckland, New Zealand), through Prof. T. F. Cheeseman, cura- 
tor. Skeletons of 7 birds, Megalestris aritarcticus, Ocydromw greyi, Ocydromus earli, 



532 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Auckland Museum — Continued. 

Cdsarca variegata, Hymenolcemus malacorhynchus, and Apteryx aus trails; 450 botan- 
ical specimens, insects, and birds' skins. Exchange. 24957. 

Australian Museum (Sydney, New South Wales) through Dr. E. P. Ramsay, cura- 
tor. Graptolites, echinoderms, collection of birds' skins, and a collection of 
mammals containing skins of a considerable number of species of marsupials not 
previously represented in the Museum (24597); 132 specimens representing 50 
species of crustaceans, and 51 specimens representing 13 species of Asteroidea 
(25661). Exchange. 

Avery, S. P. (New York City). Dry-point "Moonlight" by Aug. Delarte. 
257!>5. 

Avery, Dr. William C. (Greensboro. Ala.). Five skins of purple grackle (Quisca- 
lus quiscuJa). 25701. 

Baiscock, A. L. (Sherborn, Mass.). Fourteen species of European and 3 of South 
African coleoptera. Exchange. 25248. 

Bacon, Mrs. Oliver T. Photograph of a fragment of red limestone found on the 
roadway leading to the cross on the summit of Rofelspize, a mountain near the 
village of Oberammergau. 25646. 

Bailey, H. B. (Newport News, Va.). Specimens of Stroiriiosomus coryli, Polyphylla 
occidentalis, and Tetracha virginica. Exchange. 24893. 

Baker, A. B. (See under Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park.) 

Baker, Dr. Frank. (See under Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park). 

Balfour, Henry (University Museum, Oxford, England.) Flint core, 4 paleolithic 
implements, scraper, and a small polished hatchet from France; 2 flint scrapers 
from Enulaud, and 3 stone hatchets (Carib) from the West Indies. Exchange. 
24708. 

Barber, F. A. (Washington, D. C). English mastiff, in the flesh. 24563. 

Barnes, E. A. (Syracuse, N. Y.). Dandelion with ten flowers on one stalk. 25K13. 

Bartholomew A Co. (New Orleans, La.). Specimens of black grunt (Ha'mulon 
plumieri), gulf toadfish (Batrachus taupardus), and inoray (Sidera [Murcena] mo- 
ringa). 25405. 

Bartleman, R. M. (United States legation, Caracas, Venezuela). Photograph of 
the shores of the lagoon of Sinamaica, Goagira lake-dwellings, from the same 
Locality, and group of Goagira Indians (24880) ; 19 photographs of native scenery 
and other objects of interest relating to Venezuela (25072). (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, National Zoological Park.) 

Barton, GEORGE H. (Boston Society of Natural History, Boston, Mass.). Speci- 
mens of melapkyr from Brighton. Exchange. 25105. 

Bates, Kimball & Guild (Boston, Mass.). Set of six reproductions of pencil 
sketches by Woodbury. 25339. 

BAUR, Dr. G. (Worcester. Mass.). Turtle. 25817. 

Bayley, Prof. W. S. ( Watei ville, Me.). Rocks and ores from Maine and New Hamp- 
shire. Exchange. 25366. 

Beal, Kenneth F. (Washington, D. C). Specimens of Cambarus diogenes and C'am- 
barus bartonii (25723) ; 2 specimens of Tropodonotus leberis and Tropodonotus sipedon 
(25773); mud-turtle (Kinosteruon pennsylvanicum) from Virginia (25814). 

Beale, Hon. Truxton (Washington, D. C). Three moldings of sculptures from 
Persepolis, Persia, 25881. 

Bean, Barton A. (See under Thomas C. Fa<jan.) 

Bean, Dr. T. II. (U. S. Fish Commission). Turtle from Havre de Grace, Md. (25446) ; 
skin of red phalarope ( Crymbphilus fulicarius) (25495). 

Beauregard, Dr. E. (See under Museum of Natural History, Paris, France.) 

Beck, Rollo H. (Berryessa, Cal.). Skin of Herman's song sparrow (Melospiza 
fasciata heermanni) ; skin of Bryant's marsh sparrow (Ammodravius sandwichensia 
bryanti) from California, new to the collection (25635); 98 specimens, repre- 
senting 58 species of birds' skins (25477). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. i">33 

Becker, Dr. G. F. (Sec under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Beckers, Alexander (Hoboken, N. J.). Collection of daguerreotypes, ambrotypes, 
and coleotypes, collected by Miss F. B. Johnston. 25295. 

Beckwith, Paul (Washington, D. C). . Photographs taken from a pencil sketch, 
made by Col. Reni Paul, of the first residence built in the city of St. Louis, Mo., 
in 176-1 (gift) (21721); Jubilee medal, Pope Leo XIII, issued on the fiftieth anni- 
versary of his episcopacy (exchange) (24831). 

Bednall, W. T. (South Australian Museum. Adelaide, South Australia). Specimen 
of saturnid-moth (Anlhercea eucalypti). 25616. 

Belden, Hon. J. J. (See under B. T. Nash.) 

Belding, L. (Stockton, Cal.). Seventeen specimens, representing 11 species of birds' 
skins from California (24846) ; head, wing, and foot of a blue goose ( Chen cceru- 
lescem) from Stockton (25438); charm-stone from Gridley, Cal., and four pieces 
of burnt clay, ornamented with lines and dots, from an Indian burying-ground 
near Stockton (25641); 6 birds, representing 2 species from California (25660). 

Bement, C. S. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Five specimens of minerals from various locali- 
ties, consisting of satin spar, amazonstone, lepidolite, churchite, and jade. 
25395. 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U. S. Army (IT. S. National Museum). Eggs of Tanta- 
lus loculator from Yucatan (gift) (25017); skin of American pipit (Anthus pensil- 
vanicus) from Lockport, N. Y. (gift) (25705); large buffalo robe, lance-holder 
(rawhide beaded), and quiver of otter skin (beaded), (deposit) (25827). 

(See under B. L. Cunningham, Chase Littlejohn, L. M. Loomis, R. MacFarlane, 
W. L. Ralph, W. G. Smith, R. S. Williams.) 

Benedict, Dr. A. L. (Buffalo, N. Y.). Three hundred and ten archaeological objects, 
consisting of rude-chipped implements, pestles, hatchets, fragments of pottery, 
and other objects, principally from Indian villages. 25369. 

Benedict, James E. (U. S. National Museum). Specimens of Gelasimus minax from 
Point Lookout, Md. 25074. 

Benjamin, Park (New York City). Original application of Jesse Ramsden, dated 
December 2, 1775, for a patent in England, written and signed by himself, for an 
astronomical equatorial instrument. 25007. 

Benjamin, Dr. Marcus (New York City). Complete collection of portraits and au- 
tograph letters of members of the National Academy of Science. Deposit. 25852. 

Benson, Lieut. Harry C, U. S. Army (Fort Walla Walla, Wash.). Eggs oi.Buteo 
swainsoni and Accipiter coopei'i from St. Louis Ranch, San Joaquin Valley, Cali- 
fornia; specimen of Swainson's hawk ( Buteo swainsoni) from Santa Lucia Valley, 
California (25756); 3 skins of hummingbird (Troehilus alexandri), with uests 
ami eggs (25790). 

Beyer, G. (New York City). Collection of 1,900 specimens, representing 900 species 
of native and exotic lepidoptera. Exchange. 25378. 

BlERSTADT, E. (New York City). Seven proofs of a chromo-collograph from an oil 
painting, showing the progressive stages, made in the establishment of the 
donor. 24689. 

Binney, W T . G. (Burlington, N. J.). Specimen of Helix sirijosa from the loess of 
Iowa (24596); photographs of teeth of mollusks, the original drawings of shells 
and slugs, and cuts of shells used in various publications on land-shells, consti- 
tuting a valuable donation (25027). 

Bird, John C. (St. Louis, Mo.), through J. W.Hulse. A Hint-lock breech-loading 
musket with a silver plate inscribed '• By resolve of Congress, presented to Gus- 
tavus A. Bird, for his gallantry at the seige of Plattsburgh," and a smaller [date 
with "G. A. B. Sept. 11, 1814." 25598. 

Black, J. C. (See under J. C. Hart.) 

Blackburn, Edwin (Denver, Colo.). Specimen of radiolites from the Niobrara lime- 
stone at Morrison, ( 'olci., and lava probably polished by the rubbing of buffa- 
loes, from Folsoin, N. Mex. 25085. 



, r )34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Blaine, Hon. James G. (See under Department of State.) 

Boarman, Dr. C. V. (Washington, D. C). Specimen of rhinoceros-beetle (Dynastcs 
Tityus L.), from Qnantico, Va. 24578. 

Boas, Dr. Fkanz (Worcester, Mass.). Chinook cradle and a carved wooden figure. 
Purchase. 25433. 

Bdehmkr, George H. (Smithsonian Institution). Second-class ticket for trans- 
portation on Darjeeling Himalayan Railway from Siligura to Kurseoug (gift) 
(25001) ; books containing engravings of imperial arms, works of art, and others 
(exchange) (25178); 4 Mack rats found in a box of hooks received from Brazil 
(25068). 

Booth, Mrs. James C. (Raverford, Pa.). Platinotype portrait of Prof. James C. 
Booth, PH. i)., ll. i)., late melter and refiner of the United States Mint at Phila- 
delphia. 25785. 

Boswei.l, Henry (Washington. D. ('.). Smooth-headed, yellow-winged turhit 
pigeon. 25220. 

Boswell, J. H. (Upper Marlboro, Md.). One hundred and nineteen archaeological 
objects, consisting of grooved axes, rude notched axe, arrow or spear-heads of 
quartzite, felsyte and houstone, white quartz, jasper, and black flint. Ex- 
change. 24591. 

Boucard, A. (London, W. C, England). Twelve specimens, representing 10 species 
of birds' skins, Psittacidce. Purchase. 25048. 

Boirke, Capt. John G., U. S. Army (Fort Ringgold, Tex.). Three votive offerings, 
consisting of " Milagros or Promesas," vows or promises, of silver; "Gallo,"'a 
figure of a cock used in games on the Lower Rio Grande; and " Pilon," a box 
in which record is made of purchases in order to give buyers a per cent off (gift) 
(21541); collection of Guadalajara pottery ('gift) (24671); tin-owing-stick and 
bird-spear from Mexico (deposit) (24899); soles of the '•Guarachi" or sandals 
used by the Mexican foot soldiers along the Rio Grande (deposit) (25103); 5 
specimens of materia medica obtained from an old Mexican woman (gift) (25152) ; 
16 specimens of folk-medicine of the Lower Rio Grande Valley (deposit) (25282); 
salt crystals from the lake known as "El Sal del Rev " in southern Texas (gift) 
(25619). 

Bowditch, F. C. (Brookline, Mass.). Thirty-six specimens of North American 
coleoptera, new to the collection. Exchange. 25593. 

Bowen, Dr. CLARENCE W. (New York City). Programmes, circulars,, invitation 
cards, and other official papers relating to the centennial celebration of Wash- 
ington's Inauguration, in New York City, April, 18X9. 24551. 

BOWERS, Hon. W. W. (House of Representatives). Block of pure pig-iron, and 
specimen of tin ore from the Temescal tin mine, South Riverside, San Bernar- 
dino County, California. 25183. 

Bowman, D. A. (Bakersville, N. C), through Prof. F. W. Clarke. Arrow-head of 
obsidian, and one of flint from a mine in Salt River Valley, near Arizona (24549) ; 
2 specimens of tscheffkinite from Mitchell-County, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, 
(24790) ; specimens of minerals (24713;; Indian arrow-head from Woodey Hill, 
near Bakersville (24997); specimen of tscheffkinite (25285). 

Boyle, C. B. (See under Interior Department. IT. S. Geological Survey.) 

Boyle, Mrs. Mary (Flemington, N. J.). Non-pearly concretion found in a round- 
clam, Venus mercenaria. 25065. 

Boyne, R. (Washington, D. C). Young alligator from Florida. 25454. 

Brace, Mrs. Charles L. (Ches-knoll, Westchester County, N. Y.), through Miss 
Emma Brace. Silver medal which was presented in 1877 by Victor Emanuel to 
the late Charles L. Brace, for his labors among the Italian children in New 
York. Deposit. 25476. 

Brace, Miss Emma. (See under Mrs. Charles L. Brace.) 

Bradner, Dr. W. B. (Warwick, N. Y.). Specimen of Dynastes hercules, 2 specimens 
of Dynastes tityus, and a few other beetles. 25023. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 535 

Brady, Prof. George S. (Sunderland, England). Specimens of British fresh-water 
cyclopidse. Exchange. 25283. 

Bragg, L. C. (San Diego, Cal.). Twenty-one s])ccimens of Branchiostoma lanceo- 
latum (24728); type specimen of Chilomycterus califortiiensis (25173). Purchase. 

Brennan, Daniel 0. (See under Regular Army and Navy Union of the U. S. A.) 

Brett, Walter (Lakeport, Cal.). Two skins of double-brested cormorant (Phala- 
crocorax dilophusj) from California. 24743. 

Bretz, George M. (Pottsville, Pa.). Portable dark tent, obtained by Miss F. B. 
Johnston. 25304. 

Brimley, H. II. & C. s. (Raleigh, N. C). Four specimens, representing 3 species 
of birds' skins (purchase) (24818); skins of various species of small North Amer- 
ican mammals (purchase) (25181); 6 specimens of wood-rats, Neotoma floridiana 
(purchase), (25221); 2 nests of Dendroica doviiniea (gift), (25408); mounted cat- 
bird (Galepscoptes carolinensis (purchase), (25703). 

British Museum (London, England). Four Australian throwing-sticks (25ir>l); 
through Dr. Henry Woodward, 4 teeth of mammoth, Elephas primigenim 
(-25330). Exchange. 

Britton, L. H. (New Lisbon, Ohio). Egg of snake. 248(50. 

Britton, Dr. N. L. (Moravia, Pa.), through Mr. Thomas Wilson. Two perforated 
stone tablets. 25313 : 

Brock, Herbert E. (Mason City, Iowa). Fossils (24561); eleven specimens of 
crinoids (25508); 5 carboniferous fossils, 9 devonian, 4 Silurian, and 1 creta- 
ceous (25683). Exchange. 

Brown, A. H. (U. S. National Museum). Seven photographs of natives of (lie west 
coast of Africa. Purchase. 24746. (See under Smithsonian Institution. U.S. 
National Museum.) 

Brown, C. F. (Hot Springs, Ark.). Specimen of rectorite (gift), (24707); speci- 
mens of descloizite from Mammoth Mine, Pinal County, Ariz., and I specimen of 
rectorite, from Garland County. Ark. (exchange), (25750). 

Brown, HERBERT (Tucson, Ariz.). Two garter snakes (Eutainia megalops) (24629); 
2 alcoholic specimens of snakes, and 4 alcoholic specimens of beetle, Allorhina 
mutabilis Gory, and cockroach, Vliyllodromia sp. (24790) ; snake, Salvador graham'uv 
(24856); 2 garter-snakes (Eutainia) (24962); 2 snakes. Bhinocheilus (25487). 

Brown, R. W. (Washington, D. 0.). Specimen of Helix alanda found in a bunch 
of bananas (24534); Helix aspersa Fer., found alive in a bunch of bananas, prob- 
ably from Jamaica (24538); Helix aspersa (24598); 3 specimens of Helix alanda 
Fer., from the West Indies (24637); spider, belonging to the family Therapho- 
sidas, from Central America (24657; spider, Dolomedes scripius Hentz (24767); 
spider (24963) ; two snakes, Storeria dekayi, collected by Mr. James Davis (25021) ; 
crab Sesarma (25075); Helix americana (25178); spider, Heleropoda vinatoria L., 
from Curaeoa (25519); tropical spider, belonging to the family Theraphosidw 
(25793). 

Brown, Sevellon A. (See under State. Department of.) 

Rrown, W. 11. and A. H. (See under Smithsonian Institution. II. S. National 
Museum). 

BRUNER, Prof. L. (Lincoln, Nebr.), through Prof. C. V. Riley. Thirty-eight speci- 
mens, representing nine species of North American coleoptera, and 4 types of a 
new orthoptera, Myrmecophila nebrascensis Bruner. 24976. 

Bryan, George R. (See under O. N. Bryan.) 

Bryan, O. N. (Marshall Hall, Md.), through Oeorge R. Bryan. One hundred and 
forty specimens of fossil bones, birds' skins, collection of archaeological objects, 
shells, specimens of Devonian and Trenton Group fossils, fossil plants, ores and 
rocks. 24837. (Bequest.) 

BRYANT, C. M. (Washington, D. ('.). Living specimen of horned toad. 25129. 

Bryant, Henry G. (Philadelphia, Pa.) Collection from Labrador and Newfound- 
land^ consisting of skulls of black bear ( Ursus americanus), lynx (Lynx canaden- 



536 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Bryant, Henry G. — Continued. 

sis), porcupine (Erethizon dorsatus), otter (Littitt canadensis), and varying hare 
(Lepus amerii'(nuin); ethnological objects; specimens of moss; human and ani- 
mal bbnes from a battle-field on Eskimo Island; trilobite (Paradoxide-s bennetti); 
geological material. 25288. 

Bullman, Charles. (See under Haskins Wood Vulcanizing Company. ) 

Burch, WlLLARD. (See under "William Palmer.) 

Burdine, W. T. (Washington, D. C). Specimen <>f whippoorwill (Antrostomvs 
vociferus), in the flesh. 25730. 

Burger, Peter (U. S. National Museum). Pair of lamp-trimming shears (24923); 
old-fashioned sand box used for drying ink (2f)107). 

Burns, Frank (Smithsonian Institution). Grooved axe and discoidal stone from 
Laurens County, South Carolina (24617) ; 4 specimens of lignite from Hoenes 
Mine, Ababama (25359) ; iron tomahawk from Blunt County, Alabama (25363). 
(See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Burns, "W. R. (Concord, Ky.). Six small arrow or spear-heads (24592); 4 archaeo- 
logical objects (25415). 

Burt, M. W., Jr. (Ironwood, Mich.). Alcoholic specimen of Epeira tiifolium. 25406. 

Calcutta Botanic Garden (Calcutta, India), through Department of State. A 
fine collection of dried plants. 25563. 

Callender, W. N. (Greenhush, N. Y.). Stone port-hole from the Van Reusselaer 
mansion built at Greeubush, opposite Albany, N. Y., in 1642. Purchase. 25051. 

Callendek, Mrs. W. N. (Greenhush, N. Y.). Hand-made shingle from the original 
portion of the Van Rensselaer mansion, built at Greenhush in 1642. 24967. 

Calvert, Philip P. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Three dragonflies, representing the spe- 
cies Lepthemis gravida ('lav., and Lepthemis proximo Hagen. 25609. 

Camp, .1. H. (Leopoldville, Congo, Central Africa). Collection of African butter- 
flies (25504); 4 photographs of natives of West Africa (25661). (See under 
Department of State.) 

Capwkll, V. L. (Luzerne, Pa.). Sandstone concretion from Forty-Fort. Luzerne 
County. 25179. 

Carlyle, A. C. (London, England), through Mr. Charles Seidler. 1674 stone relics 
from Iudia. Purchase. 25122. 

Carmick, Master Louis (Brookland, D. C), through Mr. Robert Ridgway. Red- 
shouldered hawk (Buteo lima tits). 24847. 

Carter, .Iamks C. (New York City). Specimen of hybrid between mallard and 
pintail duck (.inns boschas -\- Dafila acuta) from Swan Island, Currituck Sound, 
North Carolina (25265); specimen of wigeon (Mareca penelope) from the same 
locality (25310) ; and 2 specimens of American merganser (Merganser americarius) 
from Carroll's Island, Chesapeake Bay (25437). 

CASSELL, Capt. W. H. (Baltimore, Md.). Four specimens of Virginia deer (Cariactts 
riri/iiiitiiins), collected by Mr. William Palmer of the National Museum. 24954. 

Caton, H. J. (Rosebud Agency, S. Dak.). Fossil turtle, Stylemys nebrascensis from 
Bad Lands (25411); impure opal from the same locality (25572). 

Chambers, J. A. (Tangier, Va.). Vegetable. 25035. 

Chani.fi:. William Astor (New York City). Two mounted giraffe heads, male and 
female, from East Africa. 24907. 

Chandler, Prof. Charles F. (School of Mines, Columbia College, New York City). 
Waxed paper negative, silver-print from waxed paper negative, and blue-print 
from waxed paper negative, obtained by Mr. S. R. Koehler of the National 
Museum. 25533. 

Chanute, 0. (Chicago, 111.). Collection of antique patterns of rail-sections, maps, 
and other objects. 25399. 

Ciiapin, E. II. (Baltimore, Md.). Trilobite, Phacopa rana, from the Hamilton Group, 
New York. 24610. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 537 

Charlton, T. (Denver. Coin.). Three teeth of extinct llama (Auchenia hesterna), 

25054. 
Chatakd, Dr. T. M. (U. S. Geological Survey). Scarfpin made of cassiterite from 

Chesterfield County, South Carolina. Deposit. 24552. (See under Interior 

Department. IT. S. Geological Survey.) 
(heeseman, Prof. T. F. (See under Auckland Museum.) 
CHERRJE, GEORGE K. (See under National Museum of Costa Rica.) 
Cheshire, W. W. (IT. S. Pension Office). Photograph of the breast-bone of a wild 

goose perforated by an Eskimo arrow. 24835. 
Chidsey, Charles E. (Scranton, Miss.). Bone eaten by red ants, and petrified 

charcoal found on the hanks of the Pascagoula river. 24824. 
Cuing, John (Kilgore, Idaho). Elk skin. Purchase. 25297. 
Chittenden, Dr. John F. (Victoria Institute, Trinidad, West Indies), through 

William P. Pierce, U. S. Consul, and Department of State. Two soles (Achirus 

lincatus and Azetria n. sp.). 25537. 
Church, F. L. (Shushan, N. Y.). Alcoholic specimen of six-legged frog. Purchase. 

24770. 
Claiborne, J. II. (Well Springs, Tenn.). Manganese ore. 24605. 
Clark, James J. (Troy, N. V.), through J. M. Francis and Hon. Owen Riley. 

Small box made from a limb of the tree in Scotland, under which Sir William 

Wallace concealed himself. This box was sent to Mr. Clark in 1818 by a weaver 

of Paisley. 24883. 
Clark, Miss May (U. S. Geological Survey). Fetish (mole) from New Mexico. 

Exchange. 24577. 
Clarke, Prof. F. W. (See under D. A. Bowman and Jacob Snyder.) 
Clarke, Prof. J. M. (See under New York State Museum.) 
Clay, Col. Cecil (Department of Justice). Five specimens of woodland caribou 

from Newfoundland. Purchase. 25140. 
Claywell, Robert T. (Morganton, N. C). Specimen of beryl with nmscovite and 

tourmaline in quartz from Bourke County, and a specimen of transparent almand- 

ite from Laurel Garnet mine, near Morganton, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, 

of the IT. S. National Museum. 24952. 
Clore, A. J. (Dulinsville, Va.). Specimen of wheel-bug ( Prionides cristatus) (24908) ; 

parasitic wasp (EpMalfos irritator Fab.). (25014). 
CLOUSE, HENRY (Phebe, Tenn.). Collection of ores from Union County. 25147. 
COCKERELL, Prof. T. D. A. (Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, .Jamaica), through 

Prof. C. V. Riley. Fourteen species of mollusks. 25838. 
Coffin, Amory. (See under Phoenix Iron Works.) 
Cohen, Robert. (See under F. J. Herell.) 
Colbi'RN, Dr. G. F. (Washington. D. C). Tooth of extinct shark, Carcharodon 

megalodon. 25613. 
COLLETT, T. R. (Savannah, Ga.). Hawk-moth (Ein/o lugubris L.). 24968. 
Collins, Mrs. Mary C. (Fort Yates, N. Dak.). Twenty specimens, representing 7 

species of cretaceous fossils from the Montana formation near Fort Yates. 25050. 
Conklin, Mrs. E. (See under Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park). 
CONNOR; Paul D. (Washington, I). G), through Mr. George C. Maynard. Model of 

telegraph-pole, cross-arm and insulators, belonging to the "Old Time Tele- 
graphers Collection." Loan. 25118. 
Cooke, Dr. Clinton T. (Salem, Oregon). Two skins of Steller's jay {Cyanocitta 

stelleri ) (parents ofegga purchased lor oidogieal collection | (24825 ) : set of eggs of 

Cyanocitta stelleri (purchase) (24830) ; handsome nest of Cyanocitta stelleri, new to 

the collection (gift) (24981). 
Cooke, Miss J. N. (San Diego, Cal.). Specimens of ostrea from the west coast of 

Lower California, collected by Captain George D.Porter. 25842. 



538 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Cooke, Prof. O. F. (Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York). Oniscidce consisting 
of Armadillidium vwlgare, Oylisticus convexus, Oniscus murariw, Porcellio rnthkei 
from Syracuse, New York; Metopo north us pruinosus from Provo, Utah; Porcellio 
Icevis, Porcellio scaber from Colfax; Porcellio rathlei from Chaumont, New York; 
Porcellio scaber from Ocean Grove, New Jersey ; Porcellio seeder from West Haven, 
Connecticut; Porcellio scaber from Bloomington, Illinois; Porcellio spinacornis 
from Goshen, Connecticut, and Trichonicuspusillus from Niagara Falls, New York. 
Exchange. 24982. 

Copela.N1), C. B. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Coquillet, 1). AY. (See under Department of Agriculture. ) 

Cornell University (Ithaca, N. Y.), through Prof. B. G. Wilder. Alcoholic speci- 
mens of Amblystoma and Necturus from the Cayuga Lake Basin. Exchange. 
25647. 

Cory, C. B. (Boston, Mass.). Skin of crocodile-bird {Pluvianus cegyptiacus) from 
.Egypt. Exchange. 25025. 

COSSMANN, M. (Paris, France). Specimens of tertiary fossils from the Paris Basin, 
France. Exchange. 25442. 

Coulrourn, W. R. (Roanoke, Va.). Larva of rhinoceros-beetle (I)ynastes tityus). 
25123. 

Courier Lithographing Company (Buffalo, N. Y.). Lithograph. 25876. 

Cowan, R. L. (Harrisburg, Ark.). Specimens of tripo'li (?) and rottenstone (?). 
24798. 

Cowie, Prof. .lames (Kanopolis, Kansas), through Prof. Robert Hay. Rock-salt. 
25213. 

Cox, Dr. .1. ('. (Sydney, New South Wales), through Charles Hedley, Australian Mu- 
seum. Alcoholic specimens of Ephippodonta Macdougalli Tate, a very remarkable 
bivalve mollusk receutly described from Australia. 25843. 

Cox, Mrs. S. S. (Washington, D. C). Memorial vase presented to Mrs. Cox by the 
members of the Life-Saving Service of the United States, in commemoration of 
the services of the late Hon. S. S. Cox. 25475. 

Crawford, Hon. J. M. (Consul-Genoral," St. Petersburg, Russia). (See under ( Jeorge 
F. Kunz.) 

Cresson, Dr. II. T. (See under Mrs. B. D. Spenser.) 

Crevecoeur, F. F. (Onaga, Kans.). Twenty-six species of insects. 25028. 

Crissey, Dr. Sardis L. (Washington, D. C). Red paint produced by burning 
nodules found in phosphate beds in Florida. 25078. 

C.ROSBY, F. W. (Washington, D. C). Ores from California. Colorado, Mexico, New 
Mexico, Arizona, and Nevada (25272); collection consisting of 126 chalcedonic 
implements, chips, and fragments of pottery found on the north bank of Anclote 
River, Hillsborough County, Florida (25644). (See under Dr. H. W. Gould.) 

Crosby, Prof. W. O. (Boston, Mass.). Nickle ore from Ontario and New Brunswick, 
Canada. Exchange. 25623. 

Cross, Prof. Charles R. (Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Boston, Mass.). 
Heliotype printing film, with impression; 7 collographic specimens, and 2 wood- 
burytype specimens. 25383. 

CrobsCUP & West (Philadelphia, Pa. ). Twenty-one specimens of work done by 
the new " Ives Process." 25486. 

Cplin, Stewart (Philadelphia, Pa.). Chinese game of Chong-un-ch'an (25539); 7 
photographs illustrating religious objects (25809). 

Cunningham, B. L. (Fort Klamath, Oregon), through Captain Charles E. Bendire. 
Three birds' skins. 25820. 

Cunningham, C. W. (Santa Clara, Cuba), through Interior Department. United 
States Geological Survey. Sample of crude petroleum. 24580. 

Dahl, F. O. (Libby, Mont.). Stone implement found near Libby Creek. Exchange. 
25132. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 539 

Dall, William H. (U. S. Geological Survey). Ten specimens of mollusks from 
Baddeck, Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia (gift) (24535); 6 volumes containing 
331 photographs, representing ethnological objects and celebrated men, Hindoo 
"Kookry," 2 carrying-bands, and a sacred drum made of skulls (gift) (25241); 
daguerreotype of Rev. Charles H. A. Dall, of Harvard College (deposit ) (25317); 
alcoholic and dry shells from Monterey, and fossils from Santa Barbara, Cali- 
fornia, cranium of sea-gull (.sterna maxima) from Monterey, sertularians from 
Port Harford and Monterey, and specimens of Pollicepa from the same locality 
(gift) (25846). (See under Mrs. Wyard.) 

Daniel, Miss Irene (Fort Bennett, S. Dak.), through Prof. O. T. Mason and Dr. Z. 
O. Daniel. Teeth and ornaments obtained from the burial-place of a Sioux In- 
dian. 24665. 

Daniel, Dr. Z. T. (Cheyenne River Agency, Fort Bennett, S. Dak.). Specimen of 
hawk-moth (Saemaris diffinis Bd.) (24623); fragment of a nuart/.ite leaf-shaped 
implement, 7 flint and chalcedony scrapers, 6 broken arrow and spear-heads from 
an ancient Indian village site near Fort Bennett, 20 chalcedonic concretions, and 
10 fragments of water-worn chalcedony from the banks of Lake Robb (24653) ; 
scraper ( ?) from the ruins of a Ree village, at Cheyenne River Agency (24664) ; 3 
scrapers and 2 fragments of arrow or spear-heads from an ancient Ree village 
(24731); 95 archaeological objects, consisting of rude chipped implements, scrap- 
ers, arrow and spear-beads, fragments of a catlinite pipe, fragments of pottery 
and other articles from an ancient Indian village site near Fort Bennett, also 2 
pieces of large leaf-shaped implement, and a pin-shaped object of stone from 
the same locality (24756) ; pipe made by "Afraid of Nothing," an Indian belong- 
ing to the Sioux tribe, and a pipe pouch made by an Indian of the same tribe 
(25083); moccasin-shaped stone (25134); 7 plum seeds "Kansu," used by the 
Sioux Indians for gambling purposes, and a ration ticket of "Banged-in-the- 
Eye" (25273) ; lock of hair cut from the head of " Yellow Thigh and Red Star," 
a Yankton Sioux Indian, and a participant in the Custer battle (25372) ; cut pin, 
whetstone, fragments of leather, bead-work, and other articles found in the 
debris of a camp of "Big Foot's" people (25449); wooden soup-spoon belonging 
to the Piegan Indians (25559); moccasin-shaped stone of natural formation 
found by a Blackfeet Indian on Two Medicinal Creek (25834). (See under Miss 
Irene S. Daniel. ) 

Dart, Dr. RICHARD (Brackettsville, Tex.). Snake skin from near the Las Moras 
River. 24906. 

Davidson, A. (Los Angeles, Cal.). Specimens of diptera parasite on spiders' eggs., 
belonging to the family Oscinidae (Hippelates n. sp. ?). 25246. 

Davis, Britton (Carralitos, Chihuahua, Mexico). Specimen of the rare Heterodon 
kennerlyi. 24878. 

Davis, James. (See under R. W. Brown.) 

Davies, M. W. (Newport, Oregon). Specimen of spider. Epeira insularis Hentz. 
24972. 

Delaney, James M. (Rochester. N. Y. ). Series of spines of 7 species of echinoderms, 
and a series of specimens representing about 12 species of Hydromedusas. 24749. 

Demcker, Robert (New York City). Twenty-one minerals from Hoboken, N. J. 
(24859); minerals (25758). Exchange. 

De Saussure, Prof. H. (Museum of Natural History, Geneva, Switzerland). Sixty 
species of named orthoptera. 25271. 

De Struve, Mr. Charles (Russian Legation. Washington, D. C). Tbirty-nine 
sheets of ethnological portraits of the inhabitants of Russia. 25447. . 

Denton, Sherman F. (U. S. Fish Commission). Specimen of bat, AdelonycterU 
fu8CU8, in flesh (24557) ; skin of white-bellied sea eagle ( Haliaetus leuoogaster) or 
allied species from Queensland, Australia (25352). 

Depue, Robert (Middagh's, Pa.), through Dr. D. H. Hazen. Stone implement 
picked up in a plow furrow on the banks of the Delaware River. 24945. 



540 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Dickinson, Thomas A. (See under Worcester Society of Antiquity.) 

Dietz, Ottomar (New York City). Seventeen species of North American coleoptera. 
25491. 

Diller, Prof. J. S. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Dodge, Mrs. Charles, jr. ( San Carlos, Arizona). Large basket made by Cbilcbuana, 
an Apache Indian chief, the largest basket ever made by the Apache tribe. Pur 
chase. 25088. 

Dodge, Col. Richard I., U. S. Army (Sackett's Harbor, New York). Four speci- 
mens representing 2 species of horse-fly (G-athophilus equi Fab.), and a wasp, 
Pelecinu8 polycerator, 21845. 

Dole Brothers (Boston, Mass.). Four-inch cube o f granite from A. F. Eells' quarry 
at Bucks Harbor, Maine. 25430. 

DONALDSON, Thomas (Philadelphia, Pa.). Seven polished specimens and a cut 
stone of turquoise from Los Cerillos, New Mexico. Deposit. 24602. 

Dorsey, Mrs. W. P. (Silver City, N. Mex.). Three arrow or spear-heads. 24815. 

Drake, C. F. (Weiser, Idaho). Ore from the Copper Key Mine, Seven Devilu Min- 
ing District, Washington County. 25081. 

Dufour, Dr. (Riverdale, Md.). Sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter velox). 25168. 

Ur four, Dr. J. R. (Washington, D. C). Skin of brown pelican (Pelecanus fuscus) 
from Navassa, West Indies. 25698. 

Duges, Prof. A. (Guanajuato, Mexico). Specimens of reptiles comprising Eutainia 
fiavilabris Cope, Eutainia insigniarum Cope, Spea multiplicata Cope, and Lepto- 
dactylua microtis Cope; radiates, crustaceans and worms; shells, comprising speci- 
mens of Cerithium macuJosum Kierer, AY. C. Mexico, Mytilus hamatus Say, and 
Helix aspersa Linn., from Chapultepec; birds' skins comprising specimens of 
Picolates leuoogaster, Lechuza parda Vera Cmz=Syrn iiim virgarum Cassin, Gallina 
del niuatc (Perdicide) Vera CTUz=Dendrortyx and Macrurua (Jardine A- Shelby); 
mammals, fishes, consisting of Char acodon f err ugineus, Characodon variatus, Hud- 
son'niH altus, Zophendum auatrale, Acara sp., and Lampetra spadicea; specimens of 
plants and insects (24727); skin of orange-crowned warbler Helminthophila 
celatu (25736); four specimens of Polyiia parvula (25780). 

Dumhlk, E. T. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

DuNTON, Capt. J. J. (See under Treasury Department. U. S. Life-Saving Service.) 

DUROCK, P. H. (General manager of the Pecos Red Sandstone Company, Pecos, 
Texas). Two four-inch cubes of red sandstone. 25390. 

Eakins, L. G. (U. S. Geological Survey)- Specimen of native gold in quartz from 
Potomac Mine, Montgomery County, Maryland (24809); gadolinite from Llano 
County, Texas. 24989. 

Eaton, Miss Lucy C. (Truro, Nova Scotia). Cocoons of moth, Tinea pellionellalu., 
and a specimen of the work of the insect. 25732. 

Edwards, Dr. A. M. (Newark, X. J.). Specimen of diatomaceous earth. 25511. 

Edwards, Vixal N. (Wood's Holl, Mass.). Specimen of American scoter (CHdemia 
americana). 25531. 

Eells, A. F. (See under Dole Brothers.) 

Egleston, Prof. Thomas (School of Mines, Columbia College, New York City). 
Twenty specimens of minerals from various localities. Exchange. 25456. 

Eichhoff, Dr. William (Strassburg, Germany). Typical specimens, representing 
100 species of North American and exotic Scolytidee, all new to the collection. 
Exchange. 25498. 

Eldox, Charles H. (Williamsport, Pa.). Photograph of mounted animals. 25303. 

Elkington & Company (London, S. W., England). Electrotype reproduction of 
Tycho-Bache's quadrant. Purchase. 248^5. 

Elkins, Richard (Halliehurst, Elkins. W. Va.). Specimen of albino chipmunk 
(Tamias striatua) in the flesh. 2577(1. 

Elson, A. W., & Company (Boston, Mass.). Set of illustrations of •' Photogravure 
Gilbo." Purchase. 25281. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 541 

Emmons, Lieut. George F., U. S. X. (Sitka, Alaska). Fish-knife. 25560. 
Emmons, Hamilton (Leips.ic, Germany). Photographic views in Egypt, collected 

by Mr. S. R. Koehler, U. S. National Museum. 25347. 
Endlicii, Dr. F. M. (Ouray, Colo.). Specimens of pyrargyrite in quartz, polybasite 

from Yankee Boy Mine, ami alaskite from the Alaska, Mine, Pougkkecpsie 

Gulch, collected by Prof. S. L. Penneld, of the U. S. Geological Survey. 24772. 
Engel, Louis (New York City). Collection of Ute and Arapahoe Indian objects, 

cowboy costumes, Mormon photographs, and photographs illustrating the cattle 

industry. Purchase. 24548. 
Engineering News (New York City), through A. M. Wellington. Complete set of 

samples of ramie and cloth made from the same. 25353. 
Engle, Horace M. (Roanoke, Va.). Specimen of scorodite. 25728. 
English, GEORGE L., & Co. (New York City). Specimens of calcite paramorph 

after aragonite, minium, hauerite, 3 jade cameos, cut specimen of beryllonite 

and cut specimen of sphene. 24760. Exchange. 
Epstein, Justus (Reading, Pa.). Copy of the Hebrew Pentateuch in manuscript, 

with cloaks and pointer. Deposit. 25602. 
Evansville Pressed Brick Company ("Evausville, Ind.). Two vitrified paving- 
bricks. 25854. 
Everett, F. M. (Washington, D. C). Carib stone hatchet from the Island of 

Navassa (deposit) (24648) ; eggs of Fregata aquila, Sula aula, Anon* stolidus, Sterna 

anwthetus, Columoa leucocephala from the same locality (gift) (2532ft). 
Evermann, Prof. B. W. (U. S. Fish Commission). Two pieces of fossil wood from 

near Galveston, Tex.; 2 specimens of Anabrus simplex, Haiti., collected at Mis- 
soula, Mont. 25327. (See under Fish Commission, IT. S.) 
Fairchild, Prof. H. L. (See under Otis and Gorsline.) 
Fagan, THOMAS ('. (Washington, D. ('.), through Barton A. Bean. Specimen of 

Bphinx-moth (Amphion nessus Fab.). 25752. 
Farmer, A. M. (Amoskeag, N. II.). Human skull, pelvis, base of spine, four legs 

bones, and two arm-bones. 25329. 
Farnham, A. B. (Benning, D. C). Adult opossum and thirteen young, Didelphya 

maranpialis, in flesh. Purchase. 21781. 
Farrington, Dr. O. C. (New Haven, Conn.). Geological material from Guilford 

(24581); specimen of gneiss containing chrysoberyl, garnet, and iolite from 

Guilford and Haddam (24639). Exchange. 
Ferguson, William T. (Washington, D. C). Spider (Eperla iiisularisHentz), 24979. 
Ferriss, James H. (Joliet, 111.). Shells from Kansas and Illinois. 24632. 
Ferry, Mrs. C. M. (Oneida, N. Y.). Sample of small-eared calico variety of popcorn. 

24555. 
Fewkes, Dr. J. Walter. (See under Hemenway Southwestern Archaeological Expe, 

dition, and Mrs. Mary Hemenway.) 
Fick, G. A. (Baltimore, Md.). Pigeon in the tlesh. 24733. 
Figgins, J. D. (Washington, D. C). Collection of reptiles and batrachians chiefly 

from the District of Columbia (24800); 3 snakes, Cyclopia cesiivus, Carphophiops 

amccmis, Bascanion constrictor, and a salamander, Spelerpes guttolineatus (24955). 
Fillette, Lieut. F. G., U. S. Navy (Washington, D. C). Cane of palm-wood, gold 

mounted, with tusk of wild boar as handle; presented to Mr. Fillette by His 

Majesty Kalakaua, King of the. Hawaiian Islands (deposit) (24660); 7 pictures 

illustrating the Chinese idea of the war in Tonkin, and a show-bill, "Chiarinis 

Show in China" (gift) (24739;. 
First Japanese Trading Company (New York City). Bronze and 4 pottery figures. 

Purchase. 25880. 
Fish Commission, U. S. 
(Through Col. McDonald, Commissioner, and Prof. Edward Linton): specimens 

of avian entozoa from Yellowstone Park (24842). 



542 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Fish Commission, U. S. — Continued. 
(Through Col. McDonald): Fishes for skeletons, including carp (Cyprinua carpio), 
toail-lish (Batrachus tan), file-fish (Alutera schoepffi), spot (Liostomus xanthurus), 
sailor's choice (Pomadasys fulvomaculatus), California salmon (Onchorhynchus 
chouicha), and Euvettus temminchii (24959); collection of reptiles and hatrachians 
made by Prof. 13. W. Evermann in Montana and Wyoming in 1891 (25022); 10 
specimens of fishes, comprising Serranus atrarius, Menticirrus nebulosus, Cynos- 
cion regale, Cliipea harengus, Merlucius bilinearis, Phycis chuss, Lophopsetta macu- 
lata, Esox Indus, Cottus octodecimspinosus and Pomoxis (25055); plants from 
Alaska collected by the steamer Albatross during the cruises of 1889 and 1890 
(25079); plants from the Galapagos Islands, obtained during the cruise of the 
Albatross under the direction of Prof. Alexander Agassiz (25080); specimens of 
nuts and orehila from the Galapagos Islands, collected by the steamer Albatross 
during the cruise of January to April. 1891, under the direction of Prof. Alex- 
ander Agassiz (25081); iishes consisting of Micropterus dolomieu, Lampris luna, 
Phycis, Brosmius brosme, Pleuronectes americanus, Pollachius carbonarius, Cottus 
octodecimspinosus, and a turtle, Aspidonectes spinifer (25121); birds' skins from the 
Galapagos Islands and Alaska, collected by Mr. C. H. Townsend, naturalist of 
the Fish Commission -steamer Albatross] skin of coast fox, Urocyon virginianus 
littoral is from Santa Rosa Island, California, and birds' eggs from Alaska, also 
collected by Mr. Townsend (25151) ; birds, rocks, lizard, insects, birds' skeletons, 
birds' nests, collected during the southern cruise of the steamer Albatross be- 
tween .January and April. 189i, under the direction of Prof. Alexander Agassiz, 
comprising the following specimens: 

Birds: Chatham Island. Nesomemus molanotis Gould, Dendroica aureola Gould, 
Geospiza fortis Gould, Geospiza fuliginosa Gould, Camarhynchus prosthemelas 
Scl. and Salv., Myiarchus magnirostris Gray,' Pyrocephalus minimus Ridg. 
Charles Island. Dendroica aureola Gould, Geospiza fuliginosa Gould, and 
Pyrocephalus manus Gould. 
Rocks from Chatham Island, Galapagos (east side), Malpelo Island, Cocos 

Island. Duncan Island, and Panama reef. 
Lizard: Amblyrhynchus cristatus. 
Birds' skeletons: Skeleton of Creagus furcatus from Malpelo Island, and of 

Oceanodroma melania from the Gulf of California. 
Birds' nests: Nest of Geospiza from Charles Island, and one from Duncan 
Island. 
Order orthoptcra. Specimen of a Large locustid belonging to the genus 

Meroncidius. 
Order homoptera. Two specimens of a Cicada, genus Tibicen? 
Order scorpionidse. Specimen of Centrums sp. Galapagos Islands. 
Order coleoptera. Calosoma galapagoum Hope. Chatham Island, seven 
specimens; Charles Island, nine specimens. Dermestes carnivorus Fabr. 
.Chatham Island, specimen of our well-known species. Passalus sp. Chat- 
ham Island, one specimen. 
Order lepidoptera. Agraulis ranillie L. var. galapagensis Hull. Chatham 
Island, two specimens; Charles Island, three specimens; Duncau Island, 
one specimen. Callidryas eubule. Chatham Island, one specimen; Charles 
Island, four specimens. Lycoenasp. Chatham Island, two specimens. Aello- 
pos titan Cram. Chatham Island, one specimen. Deilephila lineata Fab. 
Charles Island, one specimen. Proto parce sp. Chatham Island, one speci- 
men. Eudamus sp. Chatham Island, three specimens; Duncan Island, 
two specimens. Eudamus sp. Chatham Island, one specimen. Utetheisa 
ornatrix. Chatham Island, one specimen; Charles Island, two specimens. 



* See Proceedings of the National Museum, Vol. XII, No. 767, 1889, page 113 in 
text. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 543 

Fish Commission, U. S. — Continued. 

Castniasjt. Chatham Island, one specimen. Melipotis spi Duncan Island, 
liner specimens; Chatham Island, six specimens; Charles Island, two speci- 
mens. Schinia sp. Charles Island, one specimen. Sphingides sp? (larva 1 ). 
Charles Island, five specimens; Chatham Island, one specimen; Charles 
Island, seven specimens. Noctuid BTp. ? (larva). Charles Island, in num- 
bers. Ge-unetrid sp. ? (larva). Chatham Island, four specimens. 
Order orthoptera. Gryllus sp. Charles Island, one specimen. Schistocerca 
melanocera Stal. Charles Island, seven specimens; Indefatigable Island, 
one specimen. Schistocerca sp. Chatham Island, four specimens. Schisto- 
cerca sp. (larva). Chatham Island, four specimens; Charles Island, six- 
specimens. Trimerofropis placida (?) Hal. Chatham Island, four speci- 
mens; Charles Island, two specimens. 
Order hemiptera. Pentatomid (larva). Chatham Island twenty-three speci- 
mens. 
Order hymenoptera. Xylocopa sp. Chatham Island, one specimen; Charles 

Island, two specimens. 
Order aranete. Epcira cooksonli Butler. Chatham Island, one hundred 
specimens; Charles Island, twenty specimens; Indefatigable Island, four 
specimens. Gasteracantha insulavis Thorell. Chatham Island, three speci- 
mens; Indefatigable Island, four specimens. Scolopendra galapagoensis 
Boll. Chatham Island, one specimen (25157); 4 photographs of Alaskan 
Indians and their houses (25162); fishes consisting of Citharichthys sordidvs, 
Paralichthys caMfoi'tiicus, Pleuronectes stellatus, Psettichthys melanostictus, 
Sebastichthys auriculatus, Ophiodon elongatus, Eaia ocellata, and Batrachustau 
(25193); 7 specimens of fishes comprising Pleuronectes americanus, Itoccus 
chrysops, Boncador stearnsi, Pleuronectes stellatus, Ophiodon elongatus, and 
Oncorhynchus chouicha (25370) ;• 955 specimens, representing 15 species of 
fishes, including Leuciscus gilli, a new species collected in Montana and 
Wyoming during the summer of 1891, by a Fish Commission party under 
the direction of Prof. B. W. Evermann (25134*); alcoholic specimens repre- 
senting three species of lizzards from Cozumel Island, off the coast of 
Central America obtained by the Steamer A Ibatross, and alcoholic specimens 
of shells from Cozumel Island, collected in 1885 (25445); tarpon and bastard 
logger-head turtle (25494); collection of crustaceans made chietly in The 
North Pacific Ocean by the steamer Albatross during the past three or four 
years (25547) ; 7 specimens of fishes consisting of I/iitjanus blackfordi, Haplol- 
donotus grunnievs, Pomadasys virginicus, Epinephelus morio, letiobus bubalus, 
and Stoasodon narinari (25570) ; crustaceans collected at different times by 
the Fish Commission A r essels on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts (25650) ; 117 
birds' skins from the Galapagos Islands, collected in March and April of 
1891 by the steamer Albatross, under the direction of Mr. C. H. Townsend; 
skin and skull of brown bear, shot at Port Moller, by Mr. Townsend, dur- 
ing the summer of 1890 (25708). 
Through Mr. Richard Rathhuu, acting commissioner: Small collection of crusta- 
ceans, consisting of Mlthra.r (Xcmausa) spinipes (Bell), Mithra.r sp. n., Pericera 
sp. n. Pericera cornuta ccelata (A. M. Edw.)., Libinia sp. n.. f.ibhiia emarginata 
Leach, Libinia dubia M. Edw., Eupagurus splendescens (Owen), obtained chiefly 
from the dredgings of the steamer Albatross in the Pacific Ocean, but including 
a few specimens from the Atlantic Ocean (24754). 
Through Prof. B. W. Evermann: Collection of reptiles and batrachians from Mis- 
souri and Texas, obtained by him during the fall of 1891, and deposited in the 
museum (25311). (See under II. P. Thompson.) 



*A report on these fishes will he published in the Fish Commission Bulletin. The 
report has been recently submitted to Congress by Prof. Everm.mn. 



544 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Fisher, Dr. A. K. (See under Fred. Fowler.) 

Fisher, Dr. H. I. (Lebanon, Ohio). Chain-link, supposed to have been broken by 
lightning. 25815. 

Fitzgerald, J. C. (Greenville, S. C). Jointed or glass snake. Purchase. 25484. 

Fleming, J. W. (Silver City, N. Mex.), through G. P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum. 
Rubbing-stone for dressing hides, from Thompson County . 25308. 

Florida Phosphate Company (Phosphoria, Fla.), through W. S. Warner. Samples 
of phosphate rock from various localities in Florida. 24676. 

Foote, A. E. (Philadelphia, Pa.) Specimen of meteoric iron and meteoric iron 
altered to limonite from Canon Diablo, Arizona (purchase) (24751) ; specimen of 
auglesite and one of matlockite from Cromford, Derbyshire, England (ex- 
change) (25203); two specimens of calcite from Guanajuato, Mexico (purchase) 
(24205). 

Ford, Hon. J. C. (See under Kingston Exposition, Bahama Court.) 

Forest and Stream Publishing Company (New York City). Head and tail of At- 
lantic salmon (Salmo solar) from the mouth of the Cabbassaconite River. Sent 
to the company by Mr. John T. Richards, of Gardiner, Maine. 25170. (See 
under V. L. Tiphaine.) 

Forrer, R. (Strassburg, Germany). Specimens of Arentine pottery and Coptic 
cloth. Purchase. 24690. 

Forrester, Robert (Scofield, Utah). Specimens of pectolite pseudomorph after 
leucite; pectolite and nragonite (satin spar), ores and other material from 
Utah (24611); specimens of wurtzillite (25324 ). 

Fosdick, Charles R. (Washington, 1). C). Starfish Avith nine rays. 25094. 

Fowler, Fred. (Fort Huachuca, Ariz.), through Dr. A. K. Fisher. Nest and 2 eggs 
of vermilion flycatcher (Pyrocephahts rubineus mexicanus). 25726. 

Fox, William J. (Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.), through Prof. 
C. V. Riley, thirty-three specimens, representing 20 species of North American 
aculeate hymenoptera, mostly new to the collection (gift) (24873); 2 specimens 
of Calliopsus dbdominalis Cones, and a type specimen of Miscophus americanus 
Fox, new to the collection (gift) (25361); collection of aculeate hymenoptera, 
consisting of about 4,000 specimens (including typesof 25 species of Fox), and 
100 exotic species (purchase) (25769). 

Francis, Joseph (Minneapolis, Minn.). Silver medal presented to him iu 1867 by 
the citizens of Flueuen, Lake Lucerne, Switzerland. 25281. 

Francis, J. M. (See under James J. Clark.) 

Frost, L. L. (Susauville, Cal.). One hundred and sixty-five small rude implements, 
arrow and spear-heads, principally of obsidian ; small pebble with groove, prob- 
ably used as a line-sinker; and a polished stone object. 25252. 

Fulton, Hugh (London, England). Specimens of Voluta aulica L., from the Indo- 
Pacific Ocean. Exchange. 24697. 

Gaffield, Thomas (Boston, Mass.). Collection of photographs. 25382. 

Gakman, Prof. S. (See under Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.) 

Garner, Jesse (Washington, D. C). Screech owl (Megascops asio). 25215. 

Garner, R. L. (Salem, Va.). Two specimens of shark-pilot {Echeneis nuueraies) from 
Wrightsville Sound, North Carolina (24625) ; Cypress roots and knees (24700) ; 
three teeth of shark, Lamna cuspidata; tooth of shark, Hemipristis serra; horn 
supposed to belong to Virginia deer, Cariacus virginianus ) and bos of some un- 
known species from the phosphate bed on Ashley River, South Carolina (25124). 
(See under J. H. Williams.) 

Gatschet, A. S. (Bureau of Ethnology). Specimens of Indian food collected in 
1877 from the Klamath Indians (24702) ; winnowing-basket, Shaplash, made in 
1877 by an Indian belonging to Klamath Reservation, southwest Oregon (25071). 

Geisler, Bruno (Konig. Fuss-Gendarme, Laurahiitto, Ober-Schlesien, Germany). 
Skins of 5 specimens of New Guinea mammals, and a skull of Sum niger; 29 spec- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 545 

Geisler, Beuno — Continued. 

imens, representing 7 species of Birds of Paradise from New Guinea. Purchase. 
25869. 

Geological Survey of Canada (Ottawa, Canada), through Henry M. Ami. Black- 
nosed dace (Bhinichthya. atronasus) from the cave and Hot Springs at Banff, in 
the National Park of Canada, Rocky Mountains. 25236. 

Ciui'fin. John C. (Ford's Depot, Va.). Eighteen leaf-shaped implements, and 90 ar- 
row and spear- heads, mostly of quartzite, from an ancient Indian village site on 
Mill Quarter Estate, Amelia County. 21757. 

Girbes, Prof. Lewis R. (Charleston, South Carolina). Four specimens of I'uno- 
peus wiirdemannii Gibbes (types) from Florida. 24977. 

Giddings, Miss Bertha S. (Mills College, Cal.), through Prof. Josiah Keep. Wa- 
ter-color sketches of t> species of Californian nudibranchs. 24858. 

Giddings, Charles F. (Washington, D. C). Nest of hornet {Venpu maculata L.). 
25000. 

Giglioli, Prof. Henry H. (See under Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy.) 

Gilbert, Prof. Charles H. (See under William Millmore.) 

Golson, Edward S. (South Saginaw, Mich.). Silurian corals from the drift near 
Saginaw (25061); 10 chipped disc and rude implements (25360). 

Good, Rev. A. C. (Gaboon, West Africa). Collection of objects illustrating the life 
and manners of the Fang tribe, and a number of musical instruments. Pur- 
chase. 25654. 

Goode, Dr. G. Brown (Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution, in charge of 
National Museum). One number of the Analectic Magazine for July, 1819, with 
two illustrations (25676); mezzotint by Peter Pelham, and an engraving by 
T. D. Booth (25685) ; 6 parchments containing Jewish marriage contracts and lit- 
urgies (25771); engraved copper plate " Port of Raph. Morghen, ' by Cinelli, and 
an impression made from the plate (25848). (See under Smithsonian Institution. 
U. S. National Museum. ) 

Gould, Dr. H. W. (San Diego, Cal.). Four specimens of silver ores from the Calico 
District, San Bernardino County, sent by request of Mr. F. W. Crosby, of Wash- 
ington, D. C. 24638. 

Gram, N. C. (Dyrefjord, Iceland.) Two ladies' side-saddles, one dated 1789, and the 
other supposed to be 250 years old. 24932. 

Granier, Emil (New York City). Collection of ethnological specimens from Raw- 
lins, Wyo., consisting of Buffalo mask, line model of tent (painted and com- 
plete), flute, medicine-man's wands, moccasins, wheel game, stone hammer, 
eagle-bone whistle, and numerous other articles. Exchange. 24931. 

Grant-Bey, Dr. James (Cairo, Egypt). Two glass Arab lamps. 25741. 

Greger, A. (Russian legation, Washington, D. C). Photograph of a Russian vil- 
lager. 24896. 

Greegor, Isaiah (Jacksonville, Fla.) Marine shells chiefly from the Indo-Pacilic 
Ocean (gift) (25159) ; dried barnacles from Nassau, Bahama Islands (gift) (25529) ; 
punched lantern used in 1822 (gift), and pathologic and dressed shells (exchange) 
(25714). 

Green, Ashdown (Victoria, British Columbia). Fine specimen of Chirolophus 
polyactocephalus. 24711. 

Green, Bernard R. (Washington, D. C.).' Thirty-three lantern transparencies of 
heads of human race, built into the Library of Congress. 25727. 

Grondal, Benjamin (See under Icelandic Natural History Society.) 

Grottenkialer, V., *fc Co. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Twelve pine tools. Purchase. 
25582. 

Gurley, O. A. (Cleveland, Ohio), through Mr. George C. Maynard. Morse regis- 
ter, belonging to the Old Time Telegraphers' Collection. Deposit. 25098. 

H. Mis. Ill, pt. 2 35 



546 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

GURLEY, R. R. (U. S. Fish Commission). Land and fresh-water shells from Texas 

(25267); hammock from Moravia (25397). 
Haddox, Prof. A. C. (Royal College of Science for Ireland, Stephens Green, Dublin, 

Ireland). Collection of ethnological objects from Torres Straits, Australia. 

24726. 
Hale, Dr. E. M. (Chicago, 111.). .Snake (Osecola elapsoidea), from Florida. 25595. 
Hall, B. H. (Washington, D. C). The Kearney Cross, Birney's Division (oneofthe 

thousand bronze decorations given by General Birney in 1862-'63 to his soldiers 

for bravery). 24966. 
Hall, Charles H. (South Glastonbury, Conn.). Three specimens of feldspar. 

24895. 
Hall, Prof. C. W. (See under Prof. A. D. Meeds.) 
Hall, I. T. H. (Colorado Springs. Colo.). Five photographs of human habitations. 

25448. 
Hamlin, Dr. A. C. (Bangor, Me.). Ten cnt specimens of tourmaline and 19 of red 

and green tourmaline, quartz, and cassiterite. Exchange. 24943. 
Hand, C. H. (Butte, Mont.), through Messrs. Packard and Melville, of the U. S. 

Geological Survey. Specimens of granite with native copper and copper oxide 

from Rice's Addition mine. 24797. 
Hanske, E. A. (Bellevue, Iowa). Arrow-head, drill, specimen of crinoid and shell 

(24938); 3 concretions (25377). 
Hanuka, Pinkas (Washington. D. ('.). Pair of Persian leather shoes and stockings. 

24953. 
Harder, Lieut. G. B., U. S. Navy (Coast Survey). Fur clothing, consisting of 

coats, leggings, boots, pouch, mitts, hood, and boa, made by the Volenti of 

North Siberia, and worn by Mr. Harber on the Lena Delta during his connection 

with the Jeannette relief expedition. 25334. 
Harraii, David A. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 
Harris, George E. (Cassville, Mo.). Larval and seven cave salamanders from 

Rock House Cave, Missouri (gift) (purchase) (24862, 25636). 
Harris, George F. (Loudon, England). Collection of eocene fossils chiefly from 

the Paris basin. 24771. 
Harris, George H. (Rochester, N. Y.). Flint knife mounted in handle, and a blade. 

25468. 
Harris, Joseph A. (Moncton, New Brunswick). Limestone. 24612. 
Hart, G. B. (Baltimore, Md.). Pigeon in the flesh. 24649. 
Hart, J. C. (Union Point, Ga.), through J. L. Black. Magnetic ores. 24741. 
Hart, William W., & Co. (New York City). Woolly monkey (Lagothrix cana) in 

the flesh (24567); baboon (Cynocephalus, sp.) in the flesh (24569). Purchase. 
Hartman, J. M., through Mr. F. A. Lucas, U. S. National Museum. Specimen of 

calcite and quartz from Texada Island, Gulf of Georgia, British America 

24801. 
Harvey, Rev. M. (St. John's, Newfoundland). Skin and skull of hooded seal (Cys- 

tophora criatata). 25783. 
Haskins Wood Vulcanizing Company (New York City), through Charles Bullman. 

Twenty samples of vulcanized wood. 25040. 
Hay, Dr. O. P. (Irvington, Ind.). Two salamanders (Spelerpes maculicaudua) from 

Brookville, collected by Mr. E. R. Quick (24687); 4 salamanders (Spelerpes 

bilineatua) (24795); collection of snakes on which was based the donor's paper 

"On the Breeding Habits of Certain Snakes" (25652). (See under W. O. Wal- 
lace.) 
Hay, Prof. Robert (Junction City, Kans.). Block of sandstone from dyke in north- 
west Nebraska (24784) ; photograph of a sandstone dyke in the same locality 

(24881); specimen of meteorite from Kiowa County (25254k (See under James 

Cowie.) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 547 

Hazen, Dr. D. H. (Sec under Robert Depue. | 

Hazen, Mrs. Mildred McLean (no address giYen). Collection of ethnological ob- 
jects consisting of pictures, buffalo-robe, pipes, bead-work, weapons, musical 
instruments, clothing, ami other articles obtained from the Sioux Indians, and 
a number of objects from Alaska. Deposit. 25478. 

Heald, F. E. (Manchester, X. H.). Infusorial earth from (balk Pond, Newbury. 
24716. 

Healy, ('apt M. A. (See under Treasury Department. (J. S. Revenue Marine 
Service). 

Heatox, Charles M. (Washington, D. C), through George C. Maynard. Morse 
register and relay used in 1848, belonging to the Old Time Telegraphers' Collec- 
tion. Deposit. 25119. 

Hedley, Charles. (See under Dr. J. C. Cox.) 

Hemexway, Mrs. Mary (Boston, Mass.). through Dr. J. Walter Fewkes. Twenty- 
three photographs of pottery, and a collection of ethnological and archaeological 
objects from the table-lands of northeast Arizona. Deposit. 25631. 

Hemenway Southwestern Archaeological Expedition ( Boston, Mass.). through 
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes. Three sheets of drawings of prints illustrating ceremo- 
nials of the Tusayau villages. 2533K. 

Hemphill, Henry (San Diego, Cal.). skull of gray fox (Urocyon virglnianns) . 
25011. 

HENDERSON, J. C, Jr. (Washington, D. C). Collection of crustaceans, shells, 
mollusks, snake, and 11 species of fishes from the west coast of Florida. 25300. 
(See under Charles T. Simpson.) 

Hendley, John (Washington, D. C). Two plaster casts of African horns. Pur- 
chase. 24886. 

Hendricks, G. D. (Washington, D. C). Drilled tablet found in Tipton County, 
Indiana. 25462. 

Henkels, S. V. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Three stone objects from New Jersey. 25624. 

HENSHAW, H. W. (Bureau of Ethnology). A fine set of mounted herbarium plants 
representing the genera Quercus, Aster, and Solidago, from the District of Colum- 
bia (25291); collection of reptiles, batrachians, and fishes from Virginia and the 
District of Columbia (25322). 

Herell, F. J. (Hunton Hill, Md.). through Mr. Robert Cohen. Young great blue 
heron (Artlea herodias) in flesh. 2461*. 

Herrax, Hon. Thomas (Hamburg, Germany). Twenty-five gold ornaments from 
prehistoric graves in the Province of Antioquia, United States of Columbia, 
purchased by Mr. Herrau at the request of the National Museum ; carved stone 
from a cave near Sibate, Province of Cundinamarca, presented by Mr. Herrau. 
24547. 

Herrera, Prof. A. L. (Mexico, Mexico). Small collection of alcoholic fishes from 
Matsoronga, Cordova, and Vera Cruz. 24769. 

Higday, H. M. (Ingalls, Kans.). Insects. 24871. 

Hilgard, Mrs. J. E. (Washington, D. ('.). Sevres vase presented by the French 
Government to Prof. Hilgard. 25172. 

Hill, C. A. D. (Pensacola, Fla.). File-fish or fool-fish (Monacanthus) . 2.~>717. 

Hill, R. T. (Austin, Tex.). Two samples of iron ore from Iron Mountain. Llano 
County. 24642. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey ; and 
Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park.) 

Hill, Dr. T. Scott (Augusta, Me. ). Fight archaeological objects consisting of a flint 
implement, a flake of fine-grained qnartzite from an Indian tire-place on the Ken- 
nebec River, and 6 rude flint implements found on the shore of Moosehead 
Lake, near Mt. Kineo, Me. 25858. 

Hinds, J. E. (Brooklyn, N. Y.). Relief-block printing from blocks produced by 
screen process in November and December, 1878. 25649. 



548 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Hitchcock, Frank (Department of Agriculture). Sparrow-hawk (Faleo sparveriua) 
in the flesh (25380); red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealia) (25481); sparrow-hawk 
(Falco$parveriu8)iu the flesh (25493); sparrow-hawk (Falcosparverius), meadow 
lark (Sturnetta magna) in the flesh (25530) ; meadow lark (Sturnella magna) ia flesh 
(25540); meadow lark (Stumella magna) and blue jay (Cyanoeitta cristata) in 
the flesh (25514); tortoise, collected by Mr. E. A. Preble on the Potomac Flats, 
1). C.) (25574). 

Hitchcock, Romyn (U. S. National Museum"). Six copies of the so-called "Peking 
Gazette," the oldest newspaper in the world, and now published daily in Pekin 
(gift) (25569); skull of walrus from Anadir Bay, Bering Strait (purchase) 
(25715). (See under Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National Museum.) 

Hitchcock, Dr. T. S. (Oswego, N. Y.). Three photographs of carved powder-horns, 
inlaid table and a design for a monument. 25187. 

Hodge, H. G. (York, 111.). Specimens of beetles, Canihon Juris and Onthophagm 
penaylvanicus. 2579H. 

Hoffman, Harry A. ^Philadelphia, Pa.). Drum-major's staff, with case. 25270. 

Hoffman, Dr. \V. J. (U. S. Bureau of Ethnology). Collection of ethnological ob- 
jects obtained from the Menomoni and other Indian tribes in "Wisconsin and 
Minnesota, illustrating the arts and religious practices observed by them. Pur- 
chase. 24871'. (See under Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Bureau of Eth- 
nology.) 

Holmes, AY. H. (Bureau of Ethnology). Three rude implements from an ancien 
Indian quarry, Indian Territory. 25224. 

HOLZKER, Frank X. (IT. S. Army, Fort Snelling, Minn.). Two mice (Sitomys leit- 
copus an&Sitomys miehiganenaia), shrew (Marina brevicauda), 3 specimens repre- 
senting 3 species of birds' skins. 25042. 

Hood, John H. (West Washington, D. C). Fisherman's carved wood reel, for- 
merly the property of William Hood, of Philadelphia. 24884. 

Hood, Wm. (See under J (dm H. Hood.) 

Hopkins, C. L. (Umatilla, Fla.). Three specimens of hog-nose snake (Hcterodon 
platyrhinus). 25626. 

Horxaday, William T. (Buffalo, N. Y.). Three skins of deer, Cariaeua sj>., from 
Texas. 24568. 

Hornbrook, R. L. (Butte, Mont.), through W. H. Melville, U. S. Geological Survey. 
Native silver in chalcocite, from Gagnon mine, Butte. 24804. 

Hovey, George U. S. (White Church, Kans.). Dorsal valve of Productua aymmetri- 
cus. 25630. 

Howard, E. L. (Herndon, Ya.). Two specimens of asbestos from Hunter's Mills, 
Fairfax Couuty. 24785. 

HOWELL, E. E. (Washington, D. C). Six cut and 2 rough opals from Queensland, 
Australia (24752) ; 40 specimens of ores from various localities (25277). Ex- 
change. 

Hoy, Dr. P. P. (Racine, Wis.). Field-mouse (Sitomyaleucopva). 25566. 

Huisbard, Henry G. (No address given.) Two tadpoles from Great Salt Lake, Utah. 
25666. 

Hiddlfston, John K. (Kanawha Falls, W. Ya.). Double-headed snake. Pur- 
chase. 24823. 

HULSE, J. W. (See under J. C. Bird.) 

HUNGATE, .John H. (La Harpe, 111.). Inscribed stone. Deposit. (Returned.) 
-5521. 

HCNNEWFLL, Anna. (Sic under Mrs. C. L. McCullough.) 

Hint, Mrs. A. M. (Lamar, N. Mex.). Twelve specimens of silicified wood and a 
piece of lava. 25064. 

Huntley, John (Sanel, Cal.). Specimen of fungus (Meruliu8 lachrymana), found 
growing in the interior of a yellow fir tree, or Oregon pine. 25709. 



LIST OK ACCESSIONS. 54D 

Hrui), (Justine L. (Providence, R. I.)' Buff stick used in dagtierreotyping in 
1857. 25296. 

Hurter, Julius (St. Louis, Mo.). Specimen of Coluber oosotetua and one of Engys. 
toma carolinen.se (24902); alcoholic specimens of reptiles and amphibians chiefly 
from St. Louis (25751); snakes from Alabama and Missouri (25873). Exchange. 

Icelandic Natural History Society (Reykjavik, Iceland), through Benjamin 
Grondal, president. Two wooden carved Vessels used in eating, girdle with silver 
fibular, coat and head-dress forming portion of costume of a woman over 10(1 
years of age. Exchange. 21633. 

Ijima, Dr. J. (See under Science College Museum, Imperial University, Tokio, 
Japan.) 

Ingle, Edward, (Washington, D. C). Eeticli taken from a negro prisoner at the 
city jail. 25163. 

Interior Department. 

U. S. Geological Survey (through Maj. J. W. Powell, Director). Specimen of 
wavellite from Steamboat Springs, Chester County, Pa. (21550); collection of 
fossil insects, described and figured by Prof. S. H. Scudder, of the Geological 
Survey, Vol. xm, Hay den Reports (24593) ; through Prof. O. ('. Marsh, 380 speci- 
mens of vertebrate fossils transferred from the Survey to the Museum (24627); 
minerals embracing pink grossularite, tridymite, orthoclase, sylvanite, ein- 
plectite, fluorite, mimetite, jamesonite, adularia, smoky quartz, tourmaline, 
wernerite, and strontianite (25090); fossil plants sent by Dr. J. S. Newberry, of 
Columbia College, New York City, to the Survey, and transferred to the Museum 
(25219) ; collection of vertebrate fossils from the estate of the late Dr. Leidy, 
of Philadelphia, Pa. (25345*); 13 specimens of minerals from various localities, 
consisting of agate, selenite, satin spar, calcite, fluorite, quartz, phlogopite, 
serpentine, chalcedony, massive apatite, stalactite, dolomite, calcite and kaolin 
in quartz geodes (25151); chalcedony from Frankfort, Ky. (25511); 2 specimens 
of bornite from the Gillis' Company's mine, Guilford County, North Carolina 
(25721). 
Collected by Mr. Frank Burns: Specimen of pyrolusite from one mile east of 

Walnut Grove in Murphees Valley, Etowah County, N. C. (25851). 
Collected by Dr. T. M. Chatard: Forty-six specimens of minerals from North Car- 
olina, 10 specimens from Georgia, and 1 specimen from Pennsylvania, consisting 
of lucasite, asbestus, corundum, vermieulite, enstatite, talc, garnet, sunstone, 
audesite, diaspore, chrysolite, margarite, amphibole, and spinel (25260). 
Collected by Mr. David Harrah, Burchard, Nebr. : Tooth of Petalodus destructor, a 

carboniferous selachian (25143). 
Collected by Dr. Walter P. Jenney : four specimens of calcite, 2 specimens of spha- 
lerite, 11 specimens of calamine, and 1 specimen of galena from Aurora, Mo. 
(21530); 19 specimens of pyrite, sphalerite, cerussite, and smilhsonite from 
Galena, Kansas, and Sherwood, Jasper County, Mo. (21930); 41 specimens of 
galena, 15 specimens of sphalerite, and 12 specimens of calcite on galena from 
Joplin, Mo. (25024, 25174.) 
Collected by Mr. W. Lindgren: thirty-four specimens of radiated brown tourma- 
line from Colfax, Nevada County, Cal. (25627). 
Collected by Dr. W. H. Melville: twenty-nine specimens of minerals, consisting 
<rf barite, galena, plattnerite, garnet, and cerussite from near Mullan, Idaho 
(25034); minerals from Dillon, Mont. (25768). 
Collected by Prof. S. L. Penti eld : Specimen of bubnerite from North Star mine, 
and 2 specimens of guitermannite and zuiiiite from Zuni mine, near Silve'rton, 
Colo, (deposit) (24763) ; rock showing sliekensides from ( lentral < lolorado (21789) ; 
59 specimens of minerals from Colorado, consisting of aragonite, mimetite, cerus- 

* Deposit. 



550 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Interior Department — Continued. 

site, pyrite, native gold, rhodochrosite, galena, orthoclase crystals, embolite, 
hyalite, and calcite (25261). 
Collected by H. W. Turner: live specimens of garnet and 4 specimens of epidote 

(24192). 
Collected by I. C. Russell: two pairs of snow-shoes from Charley's Village, Yukon 

River (25256). 
Large collection, consisting of 10,566 specimens of cretaceous invertebrate fossils 
from Alabama, California, Colorado, Dakota, Mississippi, Montana, Oregon, 
Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming, obtained by Messrs. G. F. Becker, 
C. B. Boyle, Frank Burns, C. B. Copeland, J. S. Diller, E. T. Dumble, R. T. Hill, 
L. C. Johnson, T. W. Stanton, R. W. Turner, C.D.Walcott, L. F. Ward, Walter 
H. Weed, C. A. White, and Bailey Willis. (See under C. W. Cunningham, Otto 
J. Klotz.) 

Intram, Robert (Chenowith, Wash.). Centiped (Chomaiohius ruber), and a milleped 
(Charomopus sp.). 25535. 

Ives, Fred. E. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Four specimens illustrating the making of a plaster 
mold from a swelled -gelatine relief as used in the original "Ives process" 
(25526); composite helio-chromes (trauspareucies), arrangement ot'blue and yel- 
low silk ; 2 photographs from blue and yellow silk, chromo ; 2 photographs taken 
from chromo, obtained through Mr. S. R. Koehler, of the U. S. National Museum 
(25534). 

Ives, Nathan. (See under B. T. Nash.) 

Jackson, F. Wolcott. (Sec under . I. 11. McCreery.) 

Jackson, Thomas H. (WestChester, Pa.). Set of eggs of white-tailed ptarmigan 
(Lagopus leucurus) from Colorado. Purchase. 25045. 

Jacobs Brothers (Washington, l>. ('.). Dog "Marco" in the flesh. 25284. 

James, Joseph F. (Washington, D. C). Catalogue of pictures and studies by 
Henry Mosler. The National Academy of Design, 1885. 25621. 

Japanese Trading Company (New York City). Specimens of wood carvings, 
bronze, and banko figures. Purchase. 25235. 

Jaquay, II. R. (Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y.). Specimens of Oniscidce. 
Exchange. 24982. (For full eutry see under O. F. Cooke.) 

Jarvis, Lieut. D. H. (See under Treasury Department. U. S. Revenue-Marine Serv- 
ice, Capt. M. A. Healy.) 

Javins, F. H. (Washington, D. C). Snapper of grunter (Lutjanw stearnsi), cre- 
valle (Car anx hippos), and Irish pompano or silver jenny (Gerres gula). 25367. 

Javins & Company (Washington, D. C). Sea-robin (Prionotus carolimts). 25710. 

Je'nks, Prof. J. W. P. (Brown University, Providence, R. I.), through Dr. George 
Marx, U. S. I >epartment of Agriculture. Two specimens of Olfersia, n. sp. (found 
ou a dead panther) from Florida; tree-frog, lizard, and snake from Indian 
River. 25812. 

Jenny, Victor A. (U. S. Consular Agent, Macassar, Celebes). Violin, with bow. 
used by the natives in the interior of southern and eastern Celebes, guitar or 
mandolin from Dilli, Timor Island, frequently used by native Christians at Ain- 
boyna, and a native flute from the interior of Celebes; small shells found along 
the shore near Macassar; ethnological objects from Celebes, East Java, Islands 
of Bally, on the eastern coast of Lombok, Tenimber, and other adjacent isLands. 
25860. 

Jenney, Dr. Walter P. (II. S. Geological Survey). Ores from Arkansas (25253); 
two specimens of cadmaniferous smithsonite from Morning Star Mine, Marion 
County, Ark. (25276); specimen of rubelite from San Diego, Cal., and one of 
kyanite from Windham, Me. (25422). (See under Interior Department. U. S. 
Geological Survey.) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 551 

Johnson, L. C. (U. S. Geological Survey). Fresh-water shells from Waddell's mill- 
pond, near Marianna, Fla. 24991. (See under Interior Department. IT. S. Geo- 
logical Survey.) 

Johnson, Judge L. C. (Gainesville, Fla.). Specimens of scorpion (Centrurus vit- 
talus). 25877. 

Johnson, Prof. O. 13. (University of . Washington, Seattle, Wash. ). Alcoholic speci- 
mens of hermit-crabs from Victoria and Port Townsend. 2 1;">S4. 

Johnson, S. B. (Shreveport, La.), through Frederick W. Mally, assistant entomol- 
ogist, U. S. Department of Agriculture). Hone of alligator gar (Lepidosteua 
tristccchus), taken from under a strata of rock at Rocky Point, La. 24701. 

Johnston, Miss F. 13. (Washington, I). G). Two silver prints in color; two pho- 
tographic portraits of W. H. Fox Talbot, and a "World's dry plate camera" 
complete. 25319. (See under Alexander Beckers, George M. Bretz.) 

JOHNSTON, F. J. (New Carlisle, Ohio). Fragments of skull, bones, and three pieces 
of Hint found in a gravel pit. 25633. 

JONES, Dr. Levi (Zirconia, N. C). Indian axe 24996. 

Jones, W. W. (Silver Cliff, Colo.). Specimen of cerussite and one of nadorite (?) 
with cerussite. 25368. 

Jouett, Admiral and Mrs. James E. (Washington, D. ('.). Dish and ewer of "pre- 
cious metals," presented to Admiral Jouett for services rendered in saving from 
shipwreck the British steamship Historian, in the Caribbean Sea, in 1885. 
Deposit. 25680. 

Jouy, P. L. (U. S. National Museum). Skin of otter (Lutronectes sp.), from Korea 
(24558); reptiles from Korea (purchase), and 71 birds' skins, representing 59 
species from various localities (exchange) (24877). (See under Reverend R. T. 
Liston, George B. Marsh, Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National Museum, 
H. M. Stanley, Frank T. Woods.) 

Kayser, William (Wapakoneta, Ohio). Specimens of coleoptera and lepidoptera, 
representing 25 species. 24631. 

Kedzie, George E. (State Geologist, Ouray, Colo.). Specimen of rhodochrosite 
and mangan-dolomite, from Bear Creek, collected by Prof. S. L. Penfield, U. S. 
Geological Survey. 24741. 

Keeney, Judge C. D. (Socorro, N. Mex.). Gypsum and siliceous sandstone. 25512. 

Keep, Prof. JoSiah. (See under Miss Bertha S. Giddings.) 

Kelley, Lieut. John F. (Metropolitan Police, Washington, D. G). Police baton 
carried by the Auxiliary Guard, a night police force of Washington, I). ('., prior 
to 1861. 24817. 

KenastOn, Prof. C. A. (See under Charles McLaren.) 

Kerrison, C, jr. (Charleston, S. C). Three models of fish-hooks. 24813. 

Ketterlinus PRINTING House (Philadelphia, Pa.). Proof-book of a plate ckromo- 
lithographed for Capt. Bendire's work ou birds' eggs. 25579. 

Kincaid, Trevor (Olympia, Wash.). Specimens of coleoptera, representing forty 
species, two of which are new to the collection (24663); four specimens of 
Rosalia funebris and one of Zacot us matthewsii (24909) ; specimens representing 
142 species of coleoptera (25637). 

Kingston Exposition (Kingston, Jamaica). 

St. Vincent Court, through Mr. F. A. Ober. Collection of ethnological objects, 

native products, fish-traps, and other objects from the West Indies (25008). 
Jamaica Court, through Mr. Welsh, commissioner at Kingston, and Mr. F. A. 

Ober. Collection of materia medica from the West Indies (25009). 
Bahama Court, through Hon. J. C. Ford, commissioner at the exposition, and 
Mr. F. A. Ober. Collection of sponges from the West Indies (25010). 

Kirsch, LOUIS. (See under Williamsburgh Scientific Society.) 

Kline, William (Toledo, Ohio), through Mr. George ('. Maynard. Morse telegraph 
register and key used in 1850, telegraph-insulators, and a specimen of twisted 



552 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Kline, William — Continued. 

telegraph wire, belonging to the Old-Time Telegraphers' collection. Lent. 
25096. 

Klotz, Otto .1. (Preston, Ontario. Canada), through Interior Department U. S. 
Geological Survey. Specimen of amber on d6bris and one in winnowed debris, 
from the shores of Cedar Lake, North-West Territories. Canada, 25190. 

Knight, M. I). (See under L. Vaden & Co. ) 

Koebele, A. (See under U. S. Department of Agriculture.) 

Koegler, Franz (Brooklyn, N. Y. ). Two specimens of photo-mechanical grain-work 
produced with screens made by the donor. 2574*?. 

KOEHLER, S. R. (U. S. National Museum). Scale of tints from black to white, made 
hy the donor. 25177. (See under Prof. Charles F. Chandler. Hamilton Emmons. 
Fred. E. Ives.) 

KOST, Dr. J. (Tiffin, Ohio). Four fossils from Florida (24753); natural casts of 
septa of fossil Nautilus, Xuutilus sic zac (24850). 

Kramer, William V. (National Zoological Park). Copper coin of Dutch East Indies. 
1858, and copper coin, 1 cent, of the British North Borneo Company. 24661. 

Kunz, GEORGE F. (Hoboken, N. .7.). Collection of castings of figures, gypsy pots, 
kettles, and pitchers, a set of standard Russian weights, iron ores, and samples 
of sand from which castings are made, transmitted by Consul-General John M. 
Crawford, St. Petersburg, Russia. 25234. 

Lacoe, R. 1). (Pittston, Pa.). The first installment of a collection vf fossil plants, 
known as the Lacoe Collection. 25426. 

Lamar, T. G., & Co. (Langley, S. C). Specimens of kaolin. 25211. 

Lamb, T. F. (Portland, Me.). Fifteen specimens of minerals, consisting of musco- 
vite, lepidolite, cassiterite, apatite, montmorillonite, sodalite, vesuvianite, feld- 
spar, alhite, beryl, and phanakite from various localities. Exchange. 24928. 

Lambuth, J. W. (Canon City, Colo. ). Forty-t wo archaeological objects from Kansas 
and Colorado. (Some presented and others deposited). 25536. 

Lane, L. C. (Frankfort, Ky.). Fossil shells. Exchange. 25523. 

Langdale, John W. (•Washington, D. C). Eight minerals (exchange), 254 archaeo- 
logical objects, consisting of rude and leaf-shaped implements of quartz, quartz- 
ite and jasper, arrow and spear-heads of quartz, quartzite and felsite, and a 
stone hatchet partly polished (gift) (25452); peat from Oregon (gift) (25480); 
rocks from the District of Columbia (gift) (25673). 

Lattin, Frank H. (Albion, N. Y.). Set of eggs of Poreana jafnaicensis, and an egg 
of Dendroica gratia (purchase) (25388) : 4 modern gun-flints from an island in the 
Ohio River, near Pittsburg (25807). 

LaUBACH, Chai>>li:s (Riegelsville, Pa.). One hundred and eighty-seven archaeologi- 
cal objects consisting of hammer-stones, rude jasper implements, and other 
material from "Durham, Indian Quarry," Bucks County (25149) ; 7 rude imple- 
ments of jasper, and 2 arrow-heads from Weidcr Valley, Pennsylvania (25312). 

Laws, Franklin (Windom, N. C). Three specimens of arfvedsonite. 25772. 

Lee, George (Washington, D. C). Booted white fan-tail pigeon. 24980. 

Lee, W. G. (Washington. D. C). English fan-tail pigeons (24540. 24788). 
Leidy, Dr. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 
Leizear, H. II. (Sandy Spring, Md.). Bed-tailed hawk (lhitio borealis) in theflesh. 

25505. 
Leizear, W. o. W. (Sandy Spring, Md.). Two hawks in theflesh. 25280. 
Lemon. Dr. J. H. (New Albany, Ind.). Eighty-four archaeological objects from 
Clark and Floyd counties, consisting of rude-chipped implements, arrow and 
spear-heads, pitted and cupped stones, fragments of pottery, fossil and recent 
shells. Exchange. 25514. 
Leonhardt, Peter (Cabin John, Md.). Two species of snakes and a hog-nose 
snake (24956,25596). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 553 

Li:i'i", Petek (Easi Saginaw, Mich.), skin of blackburnian warbler (Dendroica 
blackburnw (gift) (25564 ) ; 5 specimens, representing 5 species of owls (exchange) 
(25583); "> screech owls ( Megascops aslo) (exchange) (25774). 

Lettrick, E. F. (Mullan, Idaho). Pyromorphite with cerussite from St. Regis, 
Mont., collected by Dr. \Y. H. Melville, F. S. Geological Survey. 24933. 

Lewis, George A. (Wickford, R. [.). American eider (Somateria dresseri) in the 
tlesh. 25365. 

Lewis, Merritt(U. S. Pension Office). Carved stone pipe found in Clinton County. 
Mich. 25309. 

Lidgerwood, Mrs. John II. (Speedwell, Morristown, X. J.). Cup and saucer 
brought from Europe on the steamship Savannah by Capt. Moses Rogers, and 
presented to Judge Stephen Vail, of Speedwell. N. J., the maker of the ma- 
chinery of the Savannah. 25201. 

Lincoln, J. M. (New York City). Fossil teeth and vertebra' (25414); 2 vertebrae 
of fossil whale (25(551). 

LlNDGREN, W. (U. S. Geological Survey). Rocks and ores from Lake Valley, New 
Mexico. 25fi22. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Lindsey, H. A. (Asheville, N. C). Specimen of fergnsonite from Madison County, 
N. C. Purchase. 24949. 

Linton, Prof. Edwaud. (See under Fish Commission. U. S.) 

Linton. W. J. (New Haven. Conn.). Two proofs from wood-engravinge by the 
donor. 25259. 

Liston, Rev. R. T. (Nogales, Ariz.), through P. L. Jouy, U. S. National Museum. 
Collection of reptiles (24608); specimen of coleoptera, 4 specimens of orthoptera, 
1 specimen of hymenoptera, and 3 specimens of arachnida (24616). 

Lipi'INCott Company, J. B. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Five chromo-collographic and 
chromolith prints, illustrations of "yvernelle," etc. 25564. 

Littlejohn, Chase (Redwood City, Cal.). Twenty-five birds' eggs from Alaska, 
representing 16 species, 2 eggs each of Urinatw lumme, I. urns glaucescens, Dafila 
acuta, Ptychoramphus aleuticus, Siviorhynchus pusillus, Oceanodroma leucorhoa. 
Sterna paradiscea, ZEgialitis dubia, Tringa couesi; an egg each of Synthliboramphus 
antiquus, Lunda cirrhata, Fratercula corniculata, Cepphus columba, Larus brachy- 
rhynchvs, Olor columbianus, Haliaitus leucocephalus (25518); 2 eggs of the rare 
Steller's duck {Eniconctta stelleri) from the mouth of the Yukon River, Alaska 
(25592); skin, nest and 4 eggs of Samuel's song sparrow (Melospiza faseiata 
samuelis) (25731); 2 birds' skins and 2 eggs (through Capt. Charles E. Bendire, 
U. S. A.) (25821).' 

Lloyd, Francis F. (Williams College. Williamstown, Mass.). Fish parasites, Pan- 
darns sinualus Say. 24914. 

Lloyd, William. (See under Department of Agriculture.) 

Logan, A. S. (Kansas City, Mo.). One hundred and forty-four chips, flakes, and 
other objects of limestone, and a stone pipe, together with a map or sketch of 
the mound from which the objects were taken. 25350. 

Loomis, Rev. Henry' (Clifton Springs, N. Y.). Reptiles, Japanese shells, crusta- 
ceans, radiates and sponges, about 80 fishes' skins, insects (Scolependra sp.), 
from Japan (25379); 12 specimens of insects from Japan (25831). 

Loomis, Leverett M. (Chester, S. C.)> through Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, 
Eggs of Bubo virginianus, Buteo Hneatus, I'arus bicolor, and Aix sponsa from Ches- 
ter, S. C. (24939); received direct from Mr. Loomis nine skins of mountain 
solitary vireo {Vireo solitarius alticola) from Csesar's Head (25223); 20 birds' 
skins, representing (i species from the same locality (25611). 

Loper, S. Ward (U. S. Geological Survey). Augite rock from East Rock, New 
Haven (gift) (25200); 2 slabs of shale with rain-prints from Durham, Conn. 
(exchange) (25428); 6 specimens of handed jasper from Crown City, Colo, (gift) 
(25546). 



554 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Lord, A. W. (Jacksonville, 111.). Eight specimens representing 8 species of birds' 
skins (25286); 9 birds' skins, representing ti species (25409); 18 specimens of 
birds' skins, representing 11 species (25553); 11 birds' skins, representing 10 species 
(25781). Exchange. 

Louderman, II. B. (St. Louis, Mo.). Shell of a lobster which weighed 23 pounds. 
2515G. 

Love. Robkrt E. (Garrison, Tex.). Specimen of Papilio ajax L. 25713. 

LOVETT, EDWARD (Croydon, England). Curious old-style flint, steel, and sulphur 
matches from north Holland (gift) (24603); 8 oriental objects (four from India), 
consisting of a Hubble-bubble pipe, model of catamaran, armlet, carved stone 
vase, c.irved wooden box, decorated gourd for betel lime, pottery jug and body 
of stormy petrel used as a candle: (ill rude implements (paleolithic) and worked 
flakes from various localities in England (exchange) (25615). 

Lowe, Braxton B. (Washington, 1). C). Living specimen of sphingid pupa (Sphinx 
tetrio Fab. ?) collected at Key West, Fla. 25245. 

Lowe, Camille (Knight's Ferry, Cal.). Specimen of robber-wasp {Pepsis formosa 
Say). 2488'2 . 

Lowe, Dr. James H. (Knight's Ferry, Cal.). Specimens of petrified wood, asbestns, 
moss opal, aventurine quartz crystals, and agate; eggs and newly hatched 
young of Murgantia munda Stal. 21723. 

LOWENSTEIN, Mr. William (Keokuk, Iowa). Specimens of Lepiurn plebeja and 
Cantharis sp. 25012. 

LUCAS, FREDERIC A. (U. S. National Museum ) Two skeletons of snapping-turtles 
(Chelydra serpentina). 25471. (See under J. M. Hartman, W. H.Phillips.) 

Lucus, Leop< >ld (Washington, D. C. ). Hebrew calendars, collected by Prof. Otis T. 
Mason, of the National Museum. 25362. 

Lucas, Morris (Washington, I). C). Three old-style pottery beer mugs from Augs- 
burg, Bavaria, 24738. 

Lynch, Alexander (Gainesville, Fla.). Kaolin from Bloomfield. 24604. 

.McCarthy, Gerald (Raleigh, N. C). Stems and leaves of Cdbomba caroliniana 
Gray. 25874. 

McCormick, L. M. (See under Oberlin College.) 

McCoy, Herbert N. (Richmond, Ind.). Salamander, Plethodoncinereuserythronotus. 
24843. 

McCrkery, J. H. (Oceanport, N. J.), through F. Wolcott Jackson, general super- 
intendent of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Jersey City. Four small shells found 

20 feet below the surface in the marl beds of Monmouth County (25354); old- 
style lantern used by Edward Muschamp, a conductor on the Camden and 
Aniboy Railroad, during the years 1830-MO (25376); received direct from Mr. 
McCreery, fragment of foundation of Springfield quaker church in Burlington 
County, built in 1727; 91 specimens of cretaceous invertebrate fossils from the 
marl beds of Monmouth County, representing the species Ostrea carva Lamarck, 
Terebratella plicata Say, and Belemnitella mucronala Schlotheim (25543). 

McCullough, Mrs. C. L. (Washington, D. C.). Miniature manuscript of the Lord's 
Prayer, written in 1836 by Anna Hunnewell. an armless woman, by holding the 
pen between the toes. 25489. 

McDaniel, W. L. (Tyler, Tex.). Three specimens of Unio anodonioides var. with 
pink nacre. 25069. 

McDonald, Col. Marshall. (See under Fish Commission, U. S. ) 

McFARLANE, R. (Cumberland House, Saskatchewan. Canada). Skin of woodchuck 
(Arclomys monax), from near Cumberland House (24601); 69 specimens, repre- 
senting 44 species of birds' skins, also 211 birds' eggs, and 50 nests, representing 

21 species (25016); through Capt. Chas. E. Bendire, U. S. A., collection of fossil 
resin from the shores of Cedar Lake. Cumberland District. Saskatchewan Prov- 
ince, Northwest Territory of Canada (24594). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 555 

McGee, W. J. (U. S. Geological Survey). Silver ores from .Mexico. 25195. 

McGinniss, William II. (Youngstown, Ohio). One hundred and sixteen crystals of 
selenite froni Ellsworth, Mahoning County, Ohio. 25056. 

McGrath, J. E. (See under Treasury Department. U. S. Coast and <; letic Sur- 
vey.) 

McGregor, R. C. (Denver, Colo.). Frog. 25243. 

McGuiRE, J. D. (See under J. 1>. Morrow.) 

McLarei*, Charles (North West River, Hamilton lulet, Labrador), through Prof. 
('. A. Kenaston. Crooked knife obtained from the Waskopie ami Montagnais 
Indians of Labrador. 24973. 

McLaren, William (U. S. National Museum). Irish "Shillalie." 25571. 

McMillan, D. T. (Magnolia, N. C). Fragment of a pottery vessel found about 15 
feet below the surface of a marl-bed. 24582. 

Mallery, Garrick. (See under Dr. Charles E. Woodruff, IT. S. Army, i 

Mally, Frederick W. (See under S. B. Johnson.; 

Mantegazza, Paolo. (See under National Museum of Anthropology, Florence, 
Italy.) 

Marks, M. L. (Washington, I). C). Five gold ornaments from ancient graves in 
the United States of Colombia. 25150. 

Markson, Philip A. (Herman's Ranch, Snake River, Oregon). Two specimens of 
copper ore from the Idaho side < f Snake River (24735) ; cuprite ami native cop- 
per from Little Bar, Snake River, collected by Dr. W. II. Melville, [T. S. Geo- 
logical Survey (24934); silver ore from Union County (25194 ). 

Marron, Thomas (1". S. National Museum). Specimen of northern phalarope 
( I'll alarop its lohatus) from Washington Navy Yard bridge. 24768. 

Marsh, Prof. O. C. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Marsh, George B. (Nogales, Ariz.), through P. L. Jouy, U. S. National Museum. 
Alcoholic specimen of iquana (Clcnosaura multispinisf), a rare species, new to 
the alcoholic collection. 24651. 

Marsh, W. A. (Aledo, 111.). Three species of unios from the Mississippi Valley. 
Exchange. 24841. 

Marshall, George (Laurel, Md.). Specimen of woodhare {Lepus sylraticus) in the 
flesh (24682); jumping-mouse (Zapiis hudsonius) in the flesh (24793) ; star-nosed 
mole (Condylura cristata) (25618); garter-snake (25667); skin of purple grackle 
(Quisculus quiscula) (25707). 

Marshall, Henry (Laurel, Md.). Albino gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) in the 
flesh (24564) ; common mole (Sealops aquaticus) in the flesh (24576) ; three blue Jays 
{Cyanodtta cristata) and a hermit thrush in the flesh (25331, 25497) ; whippoorwiil 
(Antrostomus vodferus), and a blue jay {Cyanodtta cristata) in the llesh (25679). 

Martin, Dr. D. S. (New York City). Two pieces of lignite from Disco Island, 
Greenland. 24755. 

Martin, T. C. (New York City). Original sketch by S. F. B. Morse, showing cir- 
cuit of telegraph between Boston and New York. 24901. 

Marx, Dr. George. (See under Prof. J. W. P. Jenks.) 

Mason, Prof. 0. T. (See under Miss Irene S. Daniel, R. R. (Jnrley, Leopold Lucks.) 

Matthews, R. E. (Roanoke. Va.). Specimen of Citiieronia regalis Fab., with eggs. 
25791. 

Maynard, George C. (Washington, D. C). Lithograph of Thomas A. Edison ami 
of building in which first telegraph office was opened by Mr. Morse iu Balti- 
more (deposit) (24944); two English dial-telegraph instruments, and a Kenosha 
telegraph-insulator, belonging to the Old Time Telegraphers' collection (gil) 
(25097); Morse telegraph-relay used iu the year 1860 (deposit) (25413). (Ste 
under Paul D. Connor. O. A. Gurley, Charles M. Heaton, William Kline, I. N 
Miller, W. A. Neill, and The E. S. Greeley Company.) 



556 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Meacham, Mrs. D. P>. (Cincinpati, Ohio), flint flake, lour arrow-points, and a shell 
bead. Exchange. 25091. 

"Meakns, Dr. E. A., U. S. A. (Fort Snelling, Minn.). Shells, representing 48 speeies. 
21840. 

"Meauns, Dr. Edgar A., I'. S. Army (International Boundary Commission, El Paso, 
Tex.). Birds' nests and eggs; small eolleetion of lishes, consisting of Moxo- 
stoma, Perca, Ictiobus, Clupea, Amiurus, Stisosteium, Lepidosteus, Haploidonotus, 
Dorosoma, Ictalurus, Ambloplites, Esox lucius, Pomoxis, Anguilla, Lepomis, Etheo- 
stiniKt, Umbra, Hybopsis, and Notropis) 110 birds' skins, representing 78 speeies; 
mammal skins and skulls (25392); eolleetion of mammal skins and skulls, 
cocoons <>f bag-worm (Thyridopteryx sp.), cretaceous fossils from El Paso, 
Tex.; 76 specimens of birds' skins representing 27 species (25578); collection 
of birds' skins, Hi specimens representing 2 species of birds' eggs, mammal 
skins, turtles (25823) ; rocks, birds' nest, eggs, birds' skins, mammal skins, speci- 
mens of Helix (25879). 

Meder, Ferd (New York City). Engravings, consisting of the Head of Christ, 
Durer; portrait, Van Sichem; Philip II, II. Wierix; Miiller, Anton Graff; mez- 
zotint of J. Ramsden, published January 1, 1791. Purchase. (25731). 

Meeds, Prof. A. D. (University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.), through Prof. C. 
\V. Hall. Stone slab from the Fort Union group of southern Montana, bearing 
the impressions of several leaves, among which is a specimen of Popidus, new 
to science. Exchange. 25292, 

Meigs, Gen. Montgomery C, U. S. Army (Washington, D. C). Revolving rifle, in 
mahogany case, invented about 1835, made at Rochester, N. Y., by Billing- 
hurst (gift) (24827); through Montgomery Meigs and Mary M. Taylor, exec- 
utors of the estate of Gen. Meigs (bequeathed by Gen. Meigs and deposited 
in the Museum), seal ring with intaglio portrait of Julius Caesar, an antique 
stone; largesignet of bronze with stone engraved in intaglio; antique of Charon 
and Achilles or ^Eneas; silver tureen, part of silver service presented by the 
citizens of Baltimore to Commodore John Rogers in testimony of their appre- 
ciation of the important aid afforded by him in the defense of Baltimore on the 
12th and 13th id' September. L81 1 ; silver teakettle presented to ('apt. Montgom- 
ery Meigs, U. S. Engineers, by the corporation of Washington, with a resolution 
of thanks approved March 12. 1853, lor his report on the Washington Aqueduct, 
presented June 9, 1854, by John W. Maury, mayor. Joseph Burrows, of the 
board of aldermen, and A. \Y. Miller, of the board of common council, commit- 
tee of the corporation; cabinet of coins, medals, and other objects, the cabinet 
made of fragments of the wagons used by (Jen. Sherman in the campaign of 
1864 and 1N65— including a collection of 137 colored glass reproductions of antique 
intaglio gems; plaster cast of a Thorwaldsen medallion; gold-mounted antique 
intaglio "Phebus in Chariot of the Sun:" 58 bronze and gilded medals, com- 
memorating events in American and European history; 49 modern gold, silver, 
and copper coins of England, Germany, Mexico, Italy, and Spain; 254 silver 
and copper coins of ancient Greece and Rome; badge of the Union League 
Club of. Philadelphia; medal given by the Grand Trunk Railway Company of 
Canada to persons distinguishing themselves in its service; bronze medal 
awarded to Gen. Meigs for the Cabin John Bridge by the Centennial Commis- 
sion, 1876 (deposit) (25386); 7 colored sketches and 23 pencil sketches (gift) 
(25469). 

Melville, Dr. W. H. (See under C. M. Allen, C. II. Hand, R. L. Hornbrook, E. F. 
Lettrick, Philip A. Markson, S. L. 1'elkey. Interior Department, U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey.) 



* A further reference to the collections made by Dr. Mearns for the National Museum, 
in connection with the International Boundary Commission, will be found in the 
chapter on Explorations. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 557 

Mexdexhall, Prof. T. C. (See under Treasury Department, U, S. Coast and Geo- 
detic Survey. ) 

Mexeeke, Speed S. (Louisville, Ky.t. Specimen of native silkworm, Telea polyphe- 
mus. 24730. 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart (Chief of Division of Ornithology and Mammalogy, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture). Four birds' skins, representing 2 species from Florida 
aud Texas. Deposit. 25853. (See under Department of Agriculture. Smith- 
sonian Institution, National Zoological Park.) 

Merrill, George P. (See under Prof. W. J. Brown, J. W. Fleming; Smithsonian 
Institution, T T . S. National Museum.) 

Merrill, Consul-General Samuel. (See under Department of State.) 

Metcalf, H. D. (Landover, Md.). Bill of lading- of the Philadelphia and Baltimore 
Citizens' Union Line of Transportation, April IS, 1840. 25258. 

Michacd, Dr. Gustave (San Jose, Costa Rica), through Prof. C. V. Riley. Thirty- 
three specimens, representing 16 species of insects of various orders from Costa 
Rica. 24S74. 

Middli.tox, R. Morton (South Pittsburg, Tenn.). Specimen of Plethodon ceneus. 
25755. 

Miles, L. (Ashley, N. Dak.). Head of prairie hen (Tympanuchus americanus). 25662. 

Miller, Charles, Jr. (Grand Rapids, Mich.). Fossil shells and 5 small arrow- 
heads. 25711. 

Miller, I. N. (Cincinnati, Ohio), through Mr. George C. Maynard. Morse telegraph 
key, belonging to the Old Time Telegraphers' Collection. Deposit. 25095. 

Miller, Capt. James M. (Washington, D. C). Original roll aud muster of the 
Commander-in-Chief (Gen. Washington) guard for the month of July, certified 
by William Colfax, lieutenant in command; testimonial to good service and 
character of Baron de Arendt, from the War Office, Philadelphia, September 15, 
1778. 25672. 

Millmore, William (Sitka, Alaska), through Prof. Charles -II. Gilbert. Crab. 
24776. 

Mindelefp, Cosmos (U. S. Bureau of Ethnology). Specimen of calcite pseudomorph 
after glauberite from Rio Verde, Ariz. 24988. 

Mitchell, George (Vancouver, Wash.). Nests of Ginclus meocicanus. (24615, 24670.) 

Mitchell, Guy E. (Washington, D. C). Two hundred and fifty-two specimens of 
birds' eggs, representing 34 species. 25167. 

Mitchell. J. I). (Victoria, Tex.). Thirty-eight species of shells (25542); miscella- 
neous shells (25837). 

Moffett, J. S. (Harrisonburg, Va.). Polished slab of stalagmite marble. 25240. 

Moller, Theodore (Washington, I). C). War-club of the Ute Indians of Colorado. 
24994. 

Monks, Miss S. P. (Los Angeles, Cal.). Recent aud fossil shells. 2581 1. 

Moxtandon, Prof. A. L. (Bucarest, Roumania). Two hundred and twenty.-four spec- 
imens representing 76 species of Old World hemiptera, well preserved, authori- 
tatively named, and new to the collection (24579) ; 30 species of exotic hemiptera 
(25244); 29 species of heteroptera (25520). 

Montgomery, S. H. (Portsmouth, Ohio). Forty flint implements from Ohio and 
Kentucky. Exchange. 25375. 

Mooxev, James (U. S. Bureau of Ethnology). Ethnological objects from the Pinte 
Indians, consisting of a blanket of rabbit skins, 3 arrows, stick-game, lire-drill, 
body of decoy duck, and part of rush mat made by a Winnebago Indian. 25LS. 
(See under Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Moorehead, Warrex K. (Camp Hopewell, Anderson, Ohio). Altar made of baked 
clay from a mound on the north fork of Paint Creek, Ross County, Ohio. 25003. 

Morcom, G. F. (Chicago, 111.). Cackling goose {Branta canadensis minima) in the 
flesh. 24986. 



558 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Moreland, Walter (Washington, P. C). Specimen of Larimux fasciatus from 
Fortress Monroe (25742); cunner or blue perch (Ctenolabrm adspersus) (25794). 

Morgan, T. H. (Byrn Mawr, Fa.). Specimens of crustaceans from near Jamaica, 
West Indies. 25373. 

Morgan, W. .1., & Co. (Cleveland, Ohio). Three specimens of chromo-lithographic 
poster work. 25875. 

Morganton Land IMPROVEMENT Company ( Morgan ton, N. C). Indian hatchet 
from Cherry Fields, specimens of almandite and of corundum altering to da- 
niourite from Burke County, and of corundum from Yancey County, collected 
•by W. S. Yeates, of the National Museum. 21904. 

Morrison, Prof. James II. (Luray, Va.). Bat from Virginia. 25457. 

Morrow, J. B. (Ellicott City, Md.), through J. D. McGuire. Grooved ax from 
Cumberland County, Pa., and polished hatchet from Hardin County, Ohio. 24910. 

MORSE, S. F. B. (See under T. C. Martin. ) 

Moss, William (Ashton-under-Lyne, England). Specimens of Bulimus aeutux with 
microscopic slides, and specimens showing serrated organ and details (24332) ; 
12 microscopical slides of dentition of British inollusks (25387). 

MUKHARJI, T. N. (See under Department of State.) 

Murdoch, John (Washington, D. ('.). Chromo-photogravure of a Spanish man-of- 
war (25333); pair of Eskimo winter mittens made of Polar bearskin from the 
village of Utkiavwing, near Point Harrow. Alaska (25515); hooded frock 
(Atige) (forming costume of a man), made of spotted skin of the tame Siberian 
reindeer, and a pair of highly ornamented full-dress boots of reindeer skin 
(25645) ; 8 bird skins, representing 7 species, from eastern Massachusetts (25716). 

Murray, J. OGDEN (Goshen, Ya.). Arrow-heads (25087, 25545). 

Murray. John (Edinburgh. Scotland). Eighty-nine specimens of hermit crabs 
from the Firth of Clyde. 25925. 

Muschamp, Edward. (See under J. H. McCreery.) 

Museum of Comparative ZoOlogy (Cambridge, Mass.), through Prof. S. Garman. 
Two lizards from South Dakota (25031); alcoholic specimen of Azevia panamen- 
sis (25687). Exchange. 

MUSEUM OF Fink Arts (Boston, Mass.). Modern impression from a fifteenth or 
sixteenth century wooden block in the possession of the Museum of Fine Arts. 
24947. 

Museum of Natural History (Paris, France). Forty buds' skins, representing 36 
species, from Madagascar, the Phillipine, and other adjacent islands (25091) ; 
through Dr. E. Beauregard, skeletons of Bhynchotm rufescens, Chauna chararia, 
Ketupa leschenantti, SarMdiornis cegyptius, Psophia crepitans, Gypsfulvus, Turaeus 
purpurea*, Rhynochcetus jubatus, Phalacrocorax urile, 7 mammal skeletons, and an 
alcoholic specimen of Chimpanzee (24853). Exchange. 

Muzzey, GEORGE E. (Lexington, Mass.). Silver medal of centennial celebration of 
the. battle of Lexington, April 19, 1875. 24958. 

Narrin, Mrs. M. L. (Goodrich, Mich.). Specimen of serpentine quartzite. 24621. 

Nash, B. T. (Syracuse, N. Y.), through Hon. J. J. Belden. Cap owned and worn by 
Nathan Ives during the naval engagement between the Kearsarge and Alabama, 
sheath-knife and sailor's palm, also owned by Mr. Ives. 25148. 

National Museum or Anthropology (Florence, Italy), through Prof. Paolo Mante- 
gazza. Thirty-seven archaeological objects from Italy. Exchange. 24919. 

National Museum of Costa Pica (San Jose, Costa Rica). Four birds' skins, repre- 
senting 2 new species (24644) ; through Mr. George K. Cherrie, type specimens 
of Mionectes sernischistaceus, sp. now. and Ornithion pusillum subflavum Snlph., 
nov. (24921). 

Naval Eclipse Expedition (United States). Seven birds' skins, representing 2 
species from Ascension and St. Helena Islands. 25700. 

Xeal, Dr. James C. (Lake City, Fla.). Eighteen arrow-heads and a perforator from 
Kabun County, Ga. 24650. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 559 

Neale, H. C. (I". S. National Museum). Specimens of quartzite from Potsdam, 
X. Y. 25255. 

Neeb, F.'C. (Sec under \Y. Seifert.) 

Nehring, Prof. Dr. A. (Berlin, Germany). Five seeds of Cratopleura helvetica Neh- 
riiigi, C. Weber, found in peat at Klingi. Exchange. 25510. 

Neill, W. A. (Cleveland, Ohio), through Mr. GeorgeC. Maynard. Wade telegraph- 
insulator, belonging to bhe Old Time Telegraphers' collection. 25099. 

NELSON, E. W. (Bishop Creek, Cal.). Skins and skulls of black bear, and three 
brown bears (24863) ; skins and skulls of three deer (25180). 

Neumann, Dr. Julius (Hbihow, China). Two bronze drums or bells with wooden 
stands, collected by Mr. F. S. Unwin, of Canton. China (25266); collection of 
cocoanut ware, tools used for carving the shells, four hats, two bamboo lamps, 
2 smoothing-irons, crockery ware, wine-cups, and chess-box (25712). 

Neville, William R. (Houston, Tex.). Specimen of mole-cricket (Gryllotalpa 
longipennis). 25004. 

Newberry, Dr. J. S. (Sec under Interior Department. V. S. (Geological Survey.) 

Newiiall, W. H. (Sec under Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National Museum.) 

Newport, Miss Eddie (Glasgow, Ky.). Living specimen of snake, Cyelophis cestivus. 
24894. 

New York State Museum (Albany, N. Y.), through Prof. J. M. Clarke. Dupli- 
cate specimens of fossils from the Rio de Janeiro Museum collection. 25670. 

Niswander, F. J. (Laramie. Wyo.), through Prof. C. V. Riley. Fifty-two species 
of miscellaneous insects from Wyoming. 25357. 

Noel, Pail (Rouen, France). Fifty insects from Europe. Exchange. 25269. 

Norman, Rev. A. M. (Burnmoor Rectory, Fence Houses, Durham, England). Twen- 
ty-two species of European Paguridm and Pycnogonoida. Exchange. 25506. 

Northrup, Dr. G. J. (Marquette, Mich.). Iron ore. 25802. 

Norton, Arthur H. (Westbrook, Me.). Seven bird's skins. Exchange. 25463. 

Nuttall, Mrs. Zelia (Dresden, Germany). A painting, copy of an ancient Mexi- 
can feather shield. 24794. 

Ober, F. A. (See under Kingston Exposition.) 

Oberlix College (Oberlin, Ohio), through L. M. McCormick. Specimen of fruit 
bat (Pteropus Jceraudrenii). 24864. 

Olivier, Ernest (Moulines (Allier), France). Specimens of Photinus rigidus Oliv., 
from Cape Breton. 25268. 

Olney, Mrs. Mary P. (Spokane, Wash.). Shells. 25594. 

O'Neill. William O. (Prescott, Ariz.). Lithographic limestone from Yavapai 
County. 25525. 

Orcutt, C. H. (San Diego, Cal.). Specimens of Solecurtus *nl>t<rcx. Solen rosaceus, 
and Sili<[U(t lucida from San Diego and Rodos Santos Bay, Lower California. 
25840. 

Ormsbee, E. L. (Cleveland, Ohio), through Mr. Robert Ridgway. Photograph of a 
brant with an Eskimo arrow through its wing. 21922. 

Osborn, Prof. H. L. (Hamline University, Hamline, Minn.). Twenty-five shells. 
21556. 

Ota(;o University Museum (Dunedin, New Zealand), through Dr. T. Jeffrey Parker. 
Crustaceans. Exchange. 25341. 

Otis & Garsline (Rochester, N. Y.), through Prof. II. I,. Fairchild. Sixty-four 
specimen^ of well-drillings from Rochester. 25062. 

Owsley, Dr. W. T. (Glasgow, Ky.). Two snakes. 21821. 

Packard, A. S. (See under ('. M. Allen, C. H.Hand.) 

Palmer, Edward (Washington, 1). C). Rocks, vegetable drugs, foods, tanned 
skins of Iguana, collection of ethnological objects from the Cocopa Yaki. White 
Mountain Apache, and Mexican Indians of Mexico and New Mexico. 208 arclnco- 
logical objects consisting of stone implements from the same locality, and 
fossil shells. Purchase. 24600. 



560 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Palmer, Joseph (U. S. National Museum). Skin of field-mouse (Arvicola riparius) 
(24560); 3 young meadow-mice in the flesh (24811). 

Palmer, William (U. S. National Museum). Two skins of common mole (Scalops 
aquaticus), from Baltimore; skin of rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus) (24565); 
monkey (Chrysothrix sciurea) (25127); macaque (Macacus sp.) (25130); jendaya 
paroquet (Conurus jendaya) from Brazil (25164); jumping-mouse (Zapns hud- 
sonitis) from Balston, Va., in the flesh, collected hy Willard Burch (25184). (See 
under (apt. \V. II. Cassell.) 

Park, J. T. (Warner, Tenn.), Four specimens of bronzed grackle (Quisculus quis- 
cula ceneus). 2481 1. 

Parker, A. II. (Westbrook, Me.). Larva' of dytiscid beetle and carabid beetle, 
alcoholic specimens of reptiles, skull of owl, Nyctale lengmalni richardsoni, alco- 
holic crustaceans and echini, 4 birds' skins, specimens of mammals, shells 
(25464,; 8 tortoises from Stroudwater River (25632). Exchange. 

Parker, Dr. T. Jeffrey. (See under Otago University Museum.) 

Parmele, Mrs. Theodore W. (New York City). Historical chart. 25558. 

Parsons, Miss Kathkrine (Washington, D. C). Sedan chair formerly owned by 
the family of Louis XIV. Deposit. 25600. 

Patrick, Isaac (Crown King, Ariz.). Male specimen of Dynasies granii. 24915. 

Pattee, T. B. (Valley Springs, Cal.). Set of eggs of yellow-billed magpie (Pica 
nuttalli) (25684)-; sets of eggs of Falco sparverius, Colaptes caper. Pica nuttalli 
(25757).' 

Patton, W. (Cedar Creek, Mo.). Specimens of iron sulphide. 24674. 

Payx, Elias (Ties Piedras, N. Mex.). Sandstone. 25801. 

Payne, Robert H. (U. S. Geological Survey). Enamel picture on glass, transferred 
from stone. 25093. 

Payne. Samuel (Washington, D. C). Monkey, Cercopithecua sp. 25682. 

Peabody Museum (Cambridge, Mass.), through Prof. A. E. Verrill. Specimens 
of Panopeus crenatus, transversus and planus. Exchange. 25342. 

Pecos Red Sandstone Company (Pecos City, Tex.). Two 4-inch cubes of red sand- 
stone. 25351. 

Pelkey, S. A. (Huntington, Oregon). Opal(f), collected by Dr. W. H. Melville, 
U. S. Geological Survey. 25077. 

Pence, W. C. (Shenandoah, Va.). Iusects (24865, 25070). 

Pemteij), Prof. S. L. (New Haven, Conn.). Minerals from various localities, con- 
sisting of lithiophilite, amblygonite, hureaulite, reddingite, triploidite, dick- 
insonite, natrophite, fairtieldite, scovillite, rhabdophane (25202); spango- 
lite from Tombstone, Ariz. (25421). (See under Dr. F. M. Endlich, George E. 
Kedzie, Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey, Tingley S. Wood). 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company. Complete steel tie with rail and fastenings 
used on the load near Philadelphia (25532), through Joseph T. Richards, assist 
ant chief engineer, plaster cast of a bronze tablet for the Bordentown monument, 
erected by the Pennsylvania Railroad to mark the first piece of track laid in 
the State of New Jersey, and also to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the first movement by steam in New .Jersey (25337). 

Pennypacker, C. H. (West Chester, Pa.). Five specimens of calcite from Bigrigg 
mine, Cumberland, England (24787); specimen of adamite, sniithsonite from 
Greece, and corundum from Ceylon (25453). Purchase. 

Penrose, R. A. F., jr. Specimen of spessartite from Llano County, Te^c. 25214. 

Perkins, F. S. (Madison, V\is.). Brass buckle of European manufacture, obtained 
from an Indian grave near Oshkosh. 25744. 

Peters, Dr. John P. (New York City). Weaving-loom, card, and shuttle from Bag- 
dad (25104); through I lr. Cyrus Adler, Turkish baker's tally from Broussa, in 
Asia Minor (25808). 



-U 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 561 

Peterson*, N. (Salem, N. C). Sample of corrugated applewood. _J476r». 

Pettigukw, F. W. (Fort Pierre, S. Dak.). Fossil hone containing chalcedony 
(25513); skull of Arickaree Indian, and a large fragment of fossil bone (25721). 

Pfordte, Otto F. (Jersey City, X. J.). Small lithological collect ion from New Jer. 
sey, California, Mexico, New Mexico, Bolivia, Peru, Saxony, Germany, and Ari- 
zona, and an Azaugar. 25278. 

Phillips, Barnett (Brooklyn, N. Y.). "Petticoat lamp,' - a band-lamp in which 
lard oil was burned. 25767. 

Phillips, H. H. (Crystal Falls, Mich.). Bird's egg. 25855. 

Phillips, W. H. (U. S. National Museum), through Mr. F. A. Lucas. Skull of cavy 
(Cwlogenys paca) from Nicaragua. 24613. 

Phoenix Iron Works (Phcenixville, Pa.), through Amory Coffin. Chart of sec- 
tions and shapes of rails rolled by the works, previous to 1862. 25735. 

Picher, Miss Annie B. (Pasadena, Cal.). Photographs of Padre Serra, a Mexican 
drawn-work maker; Father Serra's stirrup (Indian wood-carving), and drawn- 
work, showing "Little Jesus" stitch. 25019. 

Pickles, Julian (Dry Branch, Mo.). Nine specimens of barite and one specimen of 
calcite. 25239. 

Pierce, Hon. William P. (See under Dr. J. F. Chittenden.) 

Pilsbry, H. A. (Academy of Natural Sciences. Philadelphia, Pa.). Two specimens 
of Vivipara georgiana var. altior Pils., and one of Prososthenii tournoneri Newm. 
25733. 

Pleas, C. E. (Clinton, Ark.). Mounted winter wren {Troglodytes hiemalis) 
(25417); 12 birds, representing 9 species (25778). Exchange. 

Pollock, John S. (Smithsonian Institution). Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) in 
the flesh, from Shanklin, Va. (24866) ; Cooper's hawk {Acoipiter cooperi) in the 
flesh, from the same locality (25242). 

Pond, Lieut. Charles F., U. S. Navy (Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal.). Specimen 
of sphinx-moth (Smerinthus ophthalmicus Bd.). 25610. 

Pope, H., (Southwest Point, Anticosti, Quebec, Canada). Skull of grey or horse- 
head seal (Halichcerus grypus). 25044. 

Porter, Capt. George D. (See under Miss J. X. Cooke.) 

Porter, Dr. J. II. (Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C). Two human skulls, 
piece of bone, 4 stone implements from Rockingham County, Va. 24719. 

Porter, W. B. (Chicago, 111.). Set of eggs of Sterna maxima from Key West, and 
one from near Biloxi, Miss. (25092); set of eggs of everglade kite (Bostrhamus 
80ciabilis) from Dado County, Fla. (25185). 

Potter, Rev. J. A. (Fort Clark, Tex.). Large fresh-water shrimp (Pahnnon). 
25663. 

Powell, Maj. J. W. (See under C. W. Cunningham, Smithsonian Institution. 
U. S. Bureau of Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Powell, Maj. William H. (Fort Keogh, Mont.), through Dr. D. P. Wolhaupter. 
Black stone pipe belonging to Waskaki, a chief of the Arapahoes, and presented 
to Major Powell by him during the campaign of 1876. 25427. 

Pratt, John (Brooklyn, N. Y. ). Model "Typewriter," invented in 1864 by John 
Pratt. Purchase. 25479. 

Preble, E. A. (See under Frank H, Hitchcock.) 

Prill, Dr. A. G. (Sweet Home, Oregon). Nest and eggs of Melospiza fasciata guttata, 
and nest of Troglodyte* hiemalis pacificus (24669); 2 skins of downy young of 
ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus torquatus) (24722); downy young of Cooper's 
hawk (Accipiter cooperi) from Oregon (24737); set of eggs of western house 
wren ( Troglodytes cedon aztecus) (21021). 

Pringi.e, C. (;. (Charlotte, Yt.). Dried plants from Mexico (24614, 2.">883). 

Pruden, Alfred (Dayton, Ohio). Copper axe from an Indian mound, and teeth 
taken from a skull found in the same mound. 25113. 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 3(J 



562 REPORT 0»F NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Purinton, L. W. (Beaver, Kans.). Specimen of badger (Jaxidea americana) from 
Trego County. Purchase. 25132. . 

Putnam, Prof. F. W. (See under Mrs. D. B. Spenser.) 

Putnam, Mrs. William (Lyker's, New York). Specimen of cecropia silk-moth. 
25015. 

Quelch, Bertram (Wilmington, N. C). Butterflies. 24870. 

Queredo, Alexander Samuel Lafone (Pileiao, Catamarea, Argentine Republic), 
through Mr. George Salthouse, Fairfield, Liverpool, England. Fragments of 
pottery. 25299. 

Quick, E. R. (See under Dr. O. P. Hay.) 

Quives, GEORGE A. (Washington, D.C.). Lizard. 25053. 

Rabbit, Samuel (Washington, D;C). Pouter-pigeon. 24836. 

RAGSDALE, George H. (Gainesville, Tex.). Marine shells from the west coast of 
Mexico (24740); tail of cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) (25671). 

Ralph, Dr. William L. (Utica, N. Y.). Wolf (Cants lepus griseoalbus) (24575); skin 
of Cabanis' woodpecker (Dryobates villosushyloscopus) from Colorado (24898); II 
birds' skins, representing 11 species from San Mateo, Putnam County, Fla. 
(25786); magnificent collection of birds' eggs, consisting of 1,630 specimens, rep- 
resenting 194 species and 444 sets, several of which are new to the collection; 
also 100 nests (25787); through Captain Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, 2 skins 
of saw-whet owl (Nyctala acadica), skin of flammulated screech owl (Megascope 
flammeolus) from Colorado (24851). 

Ramijo, M. Elmer (Lower Providence, Pa.). Fossil peutremites from Mt. Newman, 
Va. 25058. 

j.amsay, Dr. Edward P. (See under Australian Museum.) 

Ramsburg, C. A. (Washington, D. C). Vertebra of fossil whale. 24692. 

Randall, F. A. ( Warren, Pa.). Fossils. Exchange. 25502. 

Ransdell, Master Harry. (See under Willie B. Tate.) 

Rathbun, Miss M. J. (Smithsonian Institution). Eighty-seven ferns, collected by 
Mr. Richard Rathbun in Brazil, in 1877. 25404. 

Rathbun, Richard (U. S. Fish Commission). Small collection of Panopeus from 
Brazil, collected in 1875-76. 25381. (Sec under U. S. Fish Commission, Miss 
M. J. Rathbun.) 

Ray, GARRETT D. (Burnsville, N. C). Twenty-live specimens of kyanite in quartz, 
5 specimens of garnet, 73 specimens of beryl, 8 specimenn of columbite, and 1 
specimen of samarskite, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, U. S. National Museum 
(exchange) (24917); specimen of prehistoric mica, also collected by Mr. Yeates, 
from Ray's Mine. Yancey County (24995). 

Redding, E. L. (Organ, N. Mex.). Specimen of muscovite undergoing alteration. 
25864. 

Regular Army and Navy Union of the U. S. Army (Washington, I). C), through 
D. C. Biennan. National aide-de-camp. Badge and lapel-button of the Union. 
25116. 

Retsof Mining Company (New York City). Sample of lump salt as mined. 24554. 

Rice, Mrs. Marie E. (Coryville, Pa ). Flint scraper. 24553. 

Rice, Prof. William North (Wesleyan University. Middleton, Conn.). Rocks and 
ores from Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New York. Exchan 25210. 

Rich, J. G. (Bethel, Me.). Two varying hares (Lepus americanvs awncanus) in the 
flesh. Purchase. 25289. 

Richards, John T. (See under Forest and Stream Publishing Company. ) 

Richards, Joseph T. (See under Pennsylvania Railroad Company.) 

Richardson, W. D. (Fredericksburg, Va.). Thirteen specimens, representing 4 
species of coleoptera, specimen of Adranes coccus, 2 specimens of Batrisus schaumii, 
2 specimens of Batrisus ionce, and 2 specimens of Batrisus Virginia;. 25677. 

Richmond, Charles W. (Department of Agriculture, care of U. S. Consul, Grey- 
town, Nicaragua). Three thousand specimens, representing 334 species of birds' 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 563 

Richmond, .Charles W. — Continued. 

skins from the District of Columbia, Montana, California and Texas (purchase) 
(24736); 152 specimens, representing 53 species of reptiles and batrachians from 
North America (gift) (24745); 31 specimens, representing 3 species of birds' skins 
(gift) (24773); 3 birds' skins (gift) (25067); long-eared owl (Asio wiUonianus) in 
the flesh from Sandy Spring, Md. (gift) (25100); hroad-wingedhawk ( Buteopmn- 
sylvanicus) and sharp-shinned hawk (Accipifer velox), in the flesh from Maryland 
(gift) (25108); marsh hawk (Circus hudsonim) (gift) (25165); Cooper's hawk 
(Accipitcr cooperi) in the flesh (gift) (25175); long-cared owl (Asio wilsonianus) 
(gift) (25249) ; red-tailed hawk (Buteoborealis) and sparrow hawk ( Falco sparverius) 
(gift) (25264) ; 12 birds in the flesh (gift) (25701!) ; polished hatchet and fragment 
of stone, probably a pestle, from Costa Rica, insects, 111 specimens of reptiles and 
batrachians, shells, 32 specimens representing species of crustaceans, alcoholic 
specimens of Lepidosieus, Heros, Eleotris, Scicena, Tetragonopterus, Xiphorhampkus, 
Tetrodon, Querimana, Tylosurus, Blennius, GoMus, 217 specimens, representing 104 
species of birds' skins from San Juan River, Nicaragua, and Rio Trio, Costa Rica, 
14 bows and arrows obtained from the Watousa Indians (purchase) (25828). 

RlCKER, C. B. (New York City). Three hundred and ninety-nine specimens, repre- 
senting 288 species of birds' skins from the Lower Amazon, chiefly from San- 
tarem and Diamantina. 24681. 

RiCKETTS, L. (See under Department of State.) 

Ricksecker, L. E. (Sylvania, Cal.). Two specimens of Pleocoma Rickseckeri, one of 
Eupomphafissiceps, and one of ('lathis ovata. 24668. 

Rider, Ilis I. (Granite Canon, YVyo. ) Specimens of caddis worm ( lAmnophilus sp. |. 
25779. 

Ridgway, Audubox (Brooks' Station, D. C). Collection of fishes representing 
about 10 species from Northwest Branch, Md.. and Four-Mile Run, Va. 25822.*. 

Ridgway, Robert (Smithsonian Institution). Specimen of pine mouse (Arvieola 
pinetorum) (24562); turkey buzzard juv. (Cathartes aura) (24744); 2 birds' skins 
from Wheatland, Ind., and Laurel, Md. (24766): 29 specimens, lepresenting 17 
species of birds' skins from various localities, consisting of selected specimens, 
each one having a more or less marked peculiarity of plumage (24868); skin of 
fox sparrow (Passvrelht iliaca) from Laurel, Md. (25688). (See under Master 
Louis Carmick and E. L. Onnsbee.) 

RlLEY, Prof. C. V. (See under Department of Agriculture. J. M. Aldrich, Prof. L. 
Bruner, Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, William J. Fox, Dr. Gustave Michaud, F. .1. 
Niswander. ) 

Riley, Hon. Owex. (See under James .1. Clark.) 

Roberts, S. L. (Camden, N. J.). Old-fashioned cast-iron plates, strap-rail and nail, 
wrought angle splice-bar. Fisher joint with rails and spikes, etc. 25398. 

Roberts, W. F. (Washington, D. C). Bat ( Adelonycteris fuscus), in the flesh. 21771. 

Robertson, W. B. (Saltville, Va.). Gypsum. 24820. 

Robixette, Frank (Washington, D. C). Five specimens, representing 5 species of 
birds' skins from Chihuahua, Mexico (gift) (24698); nest aud 3 eggs of Myiar- 
rhiis cinerascens from San Diego (gift) (24854); 45 specimens, representing 15 
species of birds' eggs from the same locality (gift) (24861); 15 specimens, repre- 
senting 27 species of birds' ski'is from Mexico (purchase) (24876). 

Rockenstyre, C. E. (Albany, N. Y.). Japanese bantam fowl (24696); silky fowl 
(24701); golden seabright bantam and white polish bantam 1 25039); bull' Pckin 
bantam fowl (25146). 

Rodman, Dr. James (Hickman. Ky.). Bird of Paradise (Lophorina superba) from 
New Guinea. Purchase. 25689. 

Rogers, O. P. (Marengo, 111.). Hog-iron ore. 24658. 



* Some of these specimens are remarkably line and will be reported upon in a 
paper on District of Columbia fishes. 



564 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Rogers, Sydney H. (Washington, D. C). Original letter written in Georgetown, 
S. C, to Mrs. Moses Rogers announcing the death of her husband, the captain 
of the steamship Savannah. Deposit. 25674. 

Rogers, Thomas (Manchester, England), through Wesley and Son. String of 
beads found in an Indian grave, probably of the Sioux or Crec tribe, from near 
Saskatchewan River, North- West Territory. 25041. 

Romingek, Dr. Karl (Ann Arbor, Mich. ). One hundred and forty-five Middle Cam- 
brian fossils from Mount Stephen, British Columbia, consisting of Baihyuri&cus 
howelliW&lcotb, Olenoides nevadensis Meek, Ogygopsis IJotzi Rominger. 25325. 

Rosenthal, Joseph (New York City). Four skins of Birds of Paradise. Purchase. 
24589. 

Ross, Mrs. George P. (Clearwater Harbor, Fla.). Shells. 25521. 

Ross, Waldo O. (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston. Mass.). Nineteen 
specimens, and documents relating to photo-mechanical process work of various 
kinds. 25745. 

Rowan, James (McKeesport, Pa.). Cup-stone found in the Monongahela River 
about 2 miles above the mouth of the Youghiogheuy. 25884. 

Rowe, C. H. (Worcester, Mass.). Nine specimens of Sciaphilus muricatus Fab. (253(51) ; 
15 specimens of Oestode* lenuicollis Rand. (25575, 25835). 

Rowlands, Walter (New York City). Six specimens of photographure. 25528. 

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (Stockholm, Sweden). One hundred and 
forty species of Siberian Phanerogams. Exchange. 25227. 

Royal Zoological Museum (Florence, Italy), through Prof. Henry H. Giglioli, di- 
rector. Collection of ethnological objects, chiefly from New Guinea, archaeo- 
logical objects from France, Italy, Egypt, British Honduras, Brazil, and the 
Andaman Islands; 2 sponges from the Lampedusa River. 24918. 

Rush, Dr. W. H., U. S. Navy (Navy Department). Shells from the eastern coast of 
South America. 25839. 

Russ, A. B. (Washington, D. C). Three specimens of native gold in quartz from 
Potomac gold mine, Maryland. Deposit. 24805. 

Russell, Charles H. (Bowling Green, Ohio). Bird-shaped object from the Norton 
farm, north of Center Township, Wood County, Ohio. Deposit. (Returned.) 
24625. 

Russell, Frank (Iowa City, Iowa). Six specimens of fossil protozoa and 35 speci- 
mens of fossil shale from the drift (25655); 8 fossil shells from Saskatchewan 
(25617). 

Russell, I. C. (U. S. Geological Survey). Collection of Eskimo ivory carvings, 
dishes, spoons, pipes, daggers, dolls, trinkets, and other objects from the Upper 
Yukon River, Alaska. 25293. (See under Interior Department. II. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey.) 

Sadtler, M. A. (Baltimore, Md.). Specimen of silver ore from Colorado. 24546. 

Salthouse, George. (See under Samuel Alexander Lafone Queredo.) 

Sampson, F. A. (Scdalia. Mo.). Two specimens of fresh-water sculpin or millers- 
thumb (Cottu8 richardsoni var.) from Spavinaw Creek, Benton County, Ark., 
(24685); two specimens, representing a new genus and species of blind cave 
salamander, Typhlotriton spelceus* (24717). 

Sandberger, Prof. (See under Titus Ulke.) 

Saxdham, Henry (Boston. Mass.). Gravure etching proof of the reproduction of 
the oil painting " Battle of Lexington," the original of which is in the town- 
hall at Lexington, Mass. 25018. 

Sanford, 0. N. (San Diego, Cal.). Specimens of Mitra maura Swainsonfrom Lower 
San Diego. 25845. 

Sarault, N. (See under Mrs. B. D. Spenser. ) 

*A preliminary description, with figures, of the animal is published in the Proceed- 
ings of the National Museum. Vol. xv, pages 115-117, PI. ix. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 565 

Sawyer, Lieut. F. E. (U.S. Navy). Crustaceans collected in Brazil. Purchase. 
25340. 

Schaupp, F. G. (See under Department of Agriculture. ) 

Schestck, Charles D. (Washington, 1). C). Thoroughbred pug dog in the flesh 
25872. 

Schenck, J. (Mount Carmel, 111.). Barred owl. 25344. 

Schieifklin. S. B. (New York City). Female golden pheasant (Clirgsolophus pictua) 
in the flesh. 24806. 

Schmid, Edward S. (Washington, D. C). Iguana (Metopoceroa cornutua) (21985); 
strawberry linch in the flesh (24987) ; African gray parrot (Paiitacua erythdcua) 
in the flesh (25279) ; festive parrot (A muzona f estiva) in the flesh (25302) ; screech 
owl (Megascops asio) in the flesh (2565*); lory (Electus grandia) (25678); warbling 
grass paroquet (Melosittacu,8 undulatus) in the flesh (25690); troupial (Icterus 
icterus) in the flesh (25694); 2 specimens of wax-bill weaver-finch (Sponegin- 
thus amandava) in the flesh (25697) ; 4 specimens of hob- white (Colinus virginla- 
nus) and a goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis) in the flesh (25737) : screech owl {Mega- 
scops asio) in the flesh (25749) ; Angora cat in the flesh (25871). 

Schoexhof, Carl (Boston, Mass.). Two books by Kobell, entitled " Die Galvano- 
graphie,'' one published in March. 1872. 4,7 plates, the other at Munich in 1876, 
4°, 4 plates. Purchase. 24925. 

Schraebstadteb, Carl, jr. (St. Louis, Mo.). Materials used in the photo-me- 
chanical processes. Purchase. 25567. 

Scidmore, Miss E.R. (Washington, D C.b Three silver bracelets hammered from 
coins by the Hooniah Indians, Glacier Bay, Alaska; 5 photographs of Indian 
children and Indians gambling, and a photograph of the Hudson's Bay block- 
house, Nanaimo. British Columbia. 25236. 

Science College Museum (Imperial University, Tokio, Japan), through Dr. J. 
Ijima. Two skins of the Japanese Ptarmigan (Lagopus, species undetermined). 
24586. 

Sclater, P. L. (See under Zoological Society of London.) 

Scoville, J. T., and Mr. Woolman (Terre Haute, Ind.). Small collection of fishes 
from Mexico, consisting of Leptops olivaris, Ictalurus punctata*. Codoma omnia, 
('(impostoma omnium, Notropia chihuahua, Cyprinodon gibbosus, Gambuaia patvuelis, 
Etheostoma scovcili n. sp.. Etheostoma micropterw and Atherinops, also small collec- 
tion of reptiles from Mexico. 25S59. 

Scudder, N. P. (U. S. National Museum). Three snakes from Maryland, including 
a specimen of Ophibolm vhombomaruiatus (24913); 11 garter-snakes from Eck- 
ington, D. C. (25573). 

Scell, Miss Sarah (Washington. D. C). Scarf made in a native hand-loom in 
Greece. Returned. 25153. 

Seale, William P. (U. S. Fish Commission). Three specimens of American pipit 
(Anthus peusilvanicus) in the flesh from Alexandria, Va. 25695. 

Sebert, W. F. (Brooklyn, N. Y.). Two specimens of Ostrea vivginica, one contain- 
ing a pearl. 25171. 

Seer, A. S. (Theatrical Printing Company, New York City). Two specimens of 
poster work in colors. 25586. 

Seibert, S. R. (Washington, D. C). Daguerreotype of ••Clark Brothers" taken in 
1854, and a daguerreotype landscape of Fort Snelling taken in 1857.. 25603. 

Seidler, Ciiaui.es. ( See under A. C. Cariyle.) 

Seiiekt, W. (Lancaster, Pa.), through F. C.Neeb. Polished stone object of the 
boat-shaped class made of handed slate. 25343. 

Selby, Willie (Twining City, D. C. ). Small rude implemenl and '.'<:> arrow-heads. 
25111. 

Sewall, Hon. Harold M. (Consul-* Jeneral, Apia, Samoa). Collection of Samoan 
musical instruments, consisting of a long bamboo and mat, native name "Tui 



566 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Sewall, Hon. Harold M. — Continued. 

Tni,'' l' flutes, native name "Fagufagu," Pan's pipe used by black "labor 
boys." from Solomon Island, native name " Faaili," 3 reed pipes, native name 
"Faai," conch-shell trumpet, native name "Pn," and a wooden drum, native 
' name "Pate." 24721. * 

SHELTON, J. C. (Roseland, Va.). Eigbty-one specimens of apatite and menacca- 
nite. 3 specimens of massive rntile, 5 specimens of apatite and rntile, one spec- 
imen of apatite, and 3 specimens of rntile, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, of 
the National Museum (24712,24747). 

Siikpard, James H. (Brookings, S. Dak.).- Fossil resin from an artesian well, 
James River Valley, nearMelette. 24759. 

Sheridan, Edmund J. (Brooklyn, N. V.). Triangular-shaped stone found on the 
beach near Coney Island. 24758. 

Sharpless, H. P. (Boston. Mass.). Two specimens of columbite from Wakefield, 
N. H. 24543. 

Shaw, F. M. (Cook, Xebr. ). Two alcoholic specimens of Say's king-snake (Ophi- 
bolits sayi). 24820. 

Shaw, James C. (Tekamah, Nebr.). Indian axe from Connecticut. 24718. 

Shaw, N. C. (Shane, Md.). Carved peachstone. 24852. 

Shufeldt, Percy W. (Takoma Park, D. ('.). Female summer tanager (Piranga 
rubra) in red plumage. 24587. 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. Army (Takoma Park, 1). C). Specimen of Carinifex 
newberryi from Equus Beds, Fossil Lake, Oregon (24536); iguana, Mdopoceros 
eornutii8 (24691); model of a fossil bird, Archwopterys macrura from Solenbofeu, 
Bavaria (24764); skin of Wilson's snipe {Gallinago delicata) from Fort Wingate, 
X. Mex. (25765); birds' skins and nests (25865). 

Shufeldt, R. W., jr. (Takoma Park, 1). C). Six specimens, representing 5 species 
of birds' skins from Takoma Park, I). C, and Fort Wingate, N. Mex. 24620. 

Shumaker, P. F. (Flat Creek, La.). Rock. 257!»7. 

Sigua IRON Company (Santiago de Cuba. Cuba), through John Vallance, superin- 
tendent. Signa ores. 25803. 

Simpson, A. M. (Straubville, X. Dak.). Two specimens of gypsum. 24646. 

Simpson, Charles T., and J. C. Henderson jr. (Washington, D. C). Specimens 
of fishes, representing 11 species, consisting of Ostracion, Siphosloma, Aphorisiia, 
Hippocampus, Batrachus, G-obius, Prionotus, Echeneis, Branchiostoma ; snake, crus- 
taceans, shells, and mollusks. 25300. 

Simpson, Charles 'I'. (U.S. National Museum). Dried specimens of Lepas hillii 
from Xew Zealand. 25455. 

Singley, J. H. (Austin, Tex.). Valve of Cytherea texasiana Dall and a specimen of 
Donax Boemeri Phil. 254 IS. 

Smillie, .Iames D. (Xew York City). Aquatint plate wet ground, showing different 
degrees of granulation. 25082. 

Smith, K. Kirby (Jaltipam, Vera Cruz, .Mexico). Four beetles. 24775. 

Smith, Harlan I. (Fast Saginaw, Mich.). Portion of the bead of a fish, with vege- 
table fundus, Saprolegina, attached. 25606. 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M. (U. S. Fish Commission). Frog from Grenadier Island, 
N. Y. ( 25196 ) : set of human ear-bones 1 25228 ) : five mud puppies ( Necturus lateralis) 
(25230) ; series of eight human hyoid bones ( Homosapievs) (25251); 7 specimens 
of Acri8 gryllu <s from Plymouth, X. C. (25857). 

Smith, II. 1'. (Adams Mill, Ohio). Thirty-four arrow-heads and 2 scrapers. 24732. 



* Purchased for the National Museum at the request of the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 



LIST OP ACCESSIONS. 567 

Smith, James P., & <'<>. (New York City). Samples of Nelson's gelatines. 24900. 
Smith, R. H. Kirby (Sewauee, Tenn.). Eggs of Tinamua robustus, Crypturm pile- 

atus, Geotrygon nwntana and Crotopliapa sulcirostria from Mexico. 25686. 
Smith, U. C. (Philadelphia, Pa.). Specimens of Eupleura and Litorina litoreafrom 

Anglesea, N. J. 25237. 
Smith, William G. (Loveland, Colo.). Nests and eggs of Empidonax pusillus, E. 
difficilis and l'mx-nivs graminem confinis (!) (gift) (25407); striped gopher 
(Spermophilus 13-lineatiis) and pouched gopher (Geomys bursarius) in the flesh 
(purchase) (25818); through Captain Charles E. Beudire, U.S. Army, skin of 
little llycatcher {Empidohax puaillus) from Colorado (gift) (25160). 
Smithsonian Institution. 

V. S, Bureau of Ethnology, under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, Maj.J. 
W. Powell, director. 
Through Maj. Powell : Collection of birch-bark scrolls and mnemonic songs, 
made by Or. W. J. Hoffman in Minnesota during the years 1887, '88, '89 
and '90, relating to the ritual of the Society of Shamans, usually designated 
the "Grand Medicine Society" (24984); collection of archaeological objects 
consisting of 142 specimens of beads, fragments of bones, pottery and simi- 
lar objects, obtained from a mound near Linville, Rockingham County, Va. 
(25306); 370 ethnological objects collected by Mr. James Mooney from the 
Kiowa Indians, Oklahoma Territory, purchased by the Bureau of Eth- 
nology, and transferred to the National Museum (25718). 
U. S. National Museum, under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, Or. G. 
Brown Goode, assistant secretary. 
Collected by Or. G. Brown Goode: Twenty-three pieces of Savona faience 
(25355);* eight lamps, counters for game, costume of the Misericordia, two 
wedges, distaff with photograph of spinner, Easter offering of bread and 
hazel-nuts, photograph of a statute of vender of hazel-nuts and bread with 
offerings, playing-cards, and various other articles (25771); t collection of 
ethnological objects, ceremonial objects, costumes; musical instruments, 
consisting of an ocarina, bone flute, flageolet, piffaro da pastoral chiariua 
di ottone (clarionet of brass), zampogna (bag-pipe), piccolo mandola (man- 
doline), salterio (dulcimer) from Florence and Rome (25819) ;t and a medal- 
lion of Lucca dell a Robbra ware, etc., (25882). t 
Collected by Messrs. W. H. and A. H. Brown : Six birds' skins, representing 4 

species from Angola, Africa (25702). 
Collected by Mr. Romoyn Hitchcock: Samples of straw braid from Tientsin, 
China; specimens illustrating the preparation of bristles; specimen of silver- 
bearing galena from Monarch Mine, Field Station. ('. P. R. R., British Co- 
lumbia (25499). 
Collected by Mr. P. L. Jouy: Eleven specimens, representing 6 species of 
birds' skins and a mud-turtle from Arizona (24528) ; 11 specimens, represent- 
ing 6 species of birds' skins from the same locality (24537); 7 mammal skins 
from Sonora, Mexico. 2 from Tucson. Ariz., a pair of horns belonging to 
a Mexican deer, and 3 mammal skulls from Arizona (24572); small collection 
of fishes from the same locality, consisting of <Hlu sp., Gild gibbosa, Gila 
nigrescens, Cyprinus carpio, Cyprinodon macularius, and a few other Cyprino- 
donts (245S5); shin of barn owl (Strix pratineola) from Tucson, Arizona 
(21613); crustaceans, echini, worms and reptiles from Mexico and Ariz. 
(24645); collection of fishes from Guaymas, Mexico, consisting of <;<>hiitx. 



* The potteries have been discontinued for nearly two centuries; the pieces are 
mostly of the fourteenth and fifteenth century, many of them being vessels of a 
highly ornate character, used by druggists. 

tPuvchased by Or. Goode for the National Museum. 



568 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

.Smithsonian Institution — Continued! 

Larval probably from Clupeaid, Etropus crossotus, and Tetrodon politus: 4 mice 
from Guaymas, and a common mouse and field mouse from Tucson, fresh- 
water shells (Plan orbi s) from the.latter locality, and marine shells and mol- 
lnsks from Guaymas, Mexico; 12 specimens of coleoptera and other insects 
from Tucson and Nogales, Ariz., ground-dove (Chamepelia passerina (24686); 
mammal skins and skulls; 55 specimens, representing 33 species of birds' 
skins, and 1 specimens of Sceloportis minor (splendid specimens and new to 
the collection) from Mexico (25257); specimens of fresh-water crabs and 
crayfishes from Lake Chapada, Jalisco, Mexico (25444). 

Collected by Mr. George P. Merrill: Two large blocks of stalagmite marble 
from near Marion, Washington County. Va. (24729); zinc ores from Bertha 
zinc mines, near Marion, and specimens of colored marbles from the same lo- 
cality (24734) ; specimen of blue pyroxene with secondary serpentine from 
the Middle Gila, Grant County, N. Mex., and geological material from Yava- 
pai County, Ariz. (25198); 9 specimens of geological material from Arizona 
(25199); specimens of coal from Gallup, N. Mex.. andesite and basalt from 
Flagstaff, Ariz., and sandstone and other material from Canon Diablo, Ariz. 
(25226); specimens of Asida sordida Lec-lex, the only insect found on the 
plains about Canon Diablo, Ariz. (25247); nietates and mullers from aban- 
doned cave-dwellings near Flagstaff (25250) ; ores and general geological ma- 
terial from Silver City, N. Mex., and vicinity (25290) ; rocks from Organ Moun- 
tains, N. Mex., and ores from Bennett Mine, near Las Cruces, N. Mex. (25385). 

Collected by Mr. W. II. Newhall. Syenite rocks (24903); zinc ores and 
kersantite -from New Jersey (24912) ; conglomerate breccia from Loudoun 
County, Va. (25002). 

Collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates. Minerals consisting of transparent oligo- 
clase, garnet, hydromagnesite, tremolite, actinolite, and magnesite (24715); 
3 specimens of nickeliferous talc from Jackson County, N. C. (24993); 9 
Miocene fossils from Murfreesboro, N. C consisting of 5 specimens of Cardita 
granulata and Astorte (25713). 
National Zoological Park, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Through Dr. Frank Baker, acting manager: Three specimens of scarlet ibis 
and one of curassow (24829); Arctic fox from St. George's Island, Alaska, 
collected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam, and an agouti one day old (24879); speci- 
men of Carolina paroquet (Conurus carolinensis) in the flesh (24920); spider, 
Eurypelma sp. (25013); anaconda (Euneetes murinus); 3 specimens of 
lizards, Tupinambis nigropunctatus, and a hawk, Buteo borealis (25038); 
Jacare nigra (25049); Duncan Island tortoise (Tesiudo ephippium (?) col- 
lected by Mr. C. H. Townsend (25063); armadillo ( Tatusia novemdncta) from 
San Diego, Tex., badger ( Taxidea americana) from Collyer, Kans., musk- 
rat (Fiber zibethicus), and a moose (Alecs machlis) from Byng Inlet, Me. 
(25126); civet from Waldo County, Tex. : deer. Cariacua sp., from 
Selma, Ala.; cat, Felis; mink, Putorius vison, from the District of Colum- 
bia, aud a monkey, Cebtts (?) apella (25128); ocelot (Felis pardalis) 
(25129); 2 specimens of lynx, Lynx maculatus from Waldo County, Tex. 
(25131); deer, Cihisshx nemanragus, from Trinidad. West Indies (25134); 
prong-horned antelope ( Antilocapra) from Galatea, Colo., and a badger, 
Taxidea americana, from Wyoming (2513.")): opossum, Didelphys marsupalU; 
armadillo, Tatusia novemdncta ; deer, Cariacus sp.; marmoset, Hapale sp.; 
bridled weasel, Putorius brasiliensis (25136); armadillo, Tatusia novemdncta, 
collected by Mr. R. T. Hill, and an ant-bear (Myremecophaga jnbata) pur- 
chased from Mrs. E. Conklin (25138); armadillo, Tatusia sp., from Caracas, 
Venezuela, collected by Mi . R. M. Bartlcman (25141); badger, Taxidea ameri- 
cana, and a peccary (Dicotylcs lajacu) (25209); tortoise (Testudo iabulata) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 569 

Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 

(25229) ; male and female specimens of Virginia deer (25275) ; specimen of cay- 
man (juv.) from Trinidad, West Indies, collected by Ensign Roger Wells, jr., 
U. S. N. (25371); specimen ofkinjajou, Cercoleptes condivolvulvus, in the flesh 
from Mexico (25416) ; American barn owl (Strix pratincola) from Albany, Tex. 
(25692); American barn owl (Strix pratincola) in the flesh (25693); white- 
winged dove (Melopelia leucopetera) anda specimen of least bittern {Ardelta 
e.rilis) in flesh (25696); red fox and I Angora goats (25810); bronze turkey of 
the domestic variety (25870). 
'Through A. B. Baker. Skin of skunk, Mephitis, from Nebraska, skin of black- 
footed ferret, Putorivs nigripes, and skin of little striped skunk, Spilogale, 
from Trego County, Kans. (24693); skin of shrew (Blarina) (24978). 
SNYDER, Jacob (Two Taverns, Pa.), tbrough Prof. F. W. Clarke. Specimen of 

meteoric iron from Mount Joy. 24750. 
Snyder, Theo. (Brooklyn, N. Y.). Five proofs of photo-mechanical relief work. 

25747. 
Snyder, W. E. (Beaver Dam. Wis.). Twenty-four specimens of coleoptera. 25781.- 
Socikte Anonyme de Marcinelle Couillet (Couillet, Belgium). Bronze model 

of Z tie and rail-fastening belonging to the Willemin System. 2.">I2I. 
Somers, Dr. J. F. (Crisfiehl, Md.). Slug found in a brick cistern. 24942. 
Southwtck and Chitciii.ky ( Providence, B. I.). Skin of badger, Taxidea americana, 
and a mounted specimen of Canada lynx (Lynx rufus) from Connecticut (24662) ; 
4 specimens, representing 3 species of birds' skins from Florida (24916). 
Spenser, Mrs. B. I). (Brooklyn, N. Y.), through Dr. H. T. Cressou, Pyrula shell with 
an engraving of Mastodon, human and animal teeth, shells, beads, bone imple- 
ments, stone arrow and spear-heads, perforators and scrapers, and a. piece of 
wood showing the cutting marks of a stone axe, discovered by Dr. Cresson and 
Mr. N. Sarault in 1864, from the peat and fallen forest layer near Holly Creek, 
Del., and forwarded to the Museum by Prof. F. \V. Putnam, of Peabody Museum, 
24695. 
Spicer, Capt. John 0. (Groton, Conn.). Four pairs of Eskimo trousers from Hud- 
son's Bay. Deposit. 245X3. 
Spibdle, H. H. (Warrenton, Va.). Specimen of oolitic magnetite. 25030. 
SPRINKEL, J. W. (Dulinsville, Va.). Specimen of the caterpillar of Geoinetrid-motb 

( < harodes sp. ). 25760. 
SQUYER, Homer (Mingusville, Mont.). Twenty specimens of cretaceous fossils. 

Exchange. 25557. 
Stabler, Howard (Sandy Spring, Md.). Hawk, red-tailed hawk (Bnteo borealis), 
red-shouldered hawk (Butco lineatus); 2 specimens of screech owl (Megascops 
usio) (24971,25216,25301); 3 specimens of blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) in the 
flesh (25391, 25410, 25483). 
Stabler, James P. (Sandy Spring, Md.). Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) in the 

flesh (25120); barred owl (25634). 
Standard Hub Company (Philadelphia, Pa.). Hub-block seasoned by pressure. 

25423. 
Stanley, H. M. (Nogales, Ariz.), through Mr. P. L. Jouy. Four specimens of arach- 

nida, wasp, and a grasshopper from Mexico 24595. 
Stanton, T. W. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey. ) 
Starkweather, Mrs. H. P. (Waldrip, Tex.). Specimen of hawk-moth (Philampelus 

linnei G. & P.). 24839. 
State Department, through Hon. James G. Blaine, Secretary of State. Sprigs of 
Selaginella, a "feathery seed," and four butterflies, collected in Central Africa 
by Mr. .1. H. Camp (25601). 
Through Mr. Sevellon A. Brown, chief clerk. Specimens of Indian wool, woolen 
yarns aud fabrics, transmitted to the Department of State through Consul- 



570 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

State Department — Continued. 

General Samuel Merrill, Calcutta (24904) ; fabrics of wool from Chittaldroog and 
Davengire Taluks, iu the Chittaldroog district, Mysore Province, contributed 
by Mr. L. Ricketts, director of statistics and agriculture in Mysore Bungalore 
(24905); samples <>f wool and woolen fabrics from the same locality, collected 
by Mr. L. Ricketts, and transmitted by Consul-General Merrill (25315): samples 
of Indian wool collected by Consul-General Merrill, and a report on sheep and 
wool in India written by him (25316). (See under Calcutta Botanic Garden, 
Dr. J. F. Chittenden and R. W. Turner. I 

Stearns, Frederick (Detroit, Mich. ). six specimens of Hydractinia | exchange), and 
8 specimens of Helix qtiesita Deshayes (gift) from Japan (24617); 6 specimens of 
Achatina panthera from Mauritius (exchange) (21960); shell-sand and specimens 
of Meritina granulosa from Honolulu. Sandwich Islands (gift) (25836). 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C. (U. S. Geological Survey). Recent and fossil shells from 
California, singularly distorted specimens of Oliva from the Gulf of California, 
and tooth of a fossil shark from San Diego (21811); 4 specimens of shrimp from 
the west coast of North America, and a garter-snake from Berkeley, Cal. 
(25507); daguerreotype portrait made in 1856, 2 ambrotype portraits made in 
1859, daguerreotype view of a church made in 1857. and 3 ambrotype landscapes 
made in 1862 (25604). (See under Philip Albert. ) 

Stein, L. C. (Milwaukee, Wis.). Ninealbumen prints, consisting of "Harvesters," 
•• K.turn." ••Aunt Tilley's Story." "Tobogganing," "Who Comes," "Rest," 
" Here's Looking at You," " Dancing Girl," " Maud Muller," and " Nary a Bite." 
25318. 

Steiner, Dr. R. (Waynesboro. Ga.). Two rude implements and a spear-head. 
25321. 

STEJNEGER, Dr. L. (U. S. National Museum). Skin of short-tailed shrew (Blarina 
brevicauda) (21561); 40 specimens, representing 16 species of birds' skins from 
various localities, including a series of IS specimens of Sitta ccesia (24867). 

STEPHENSON, A. (Cincinnati, Ohio). Indian arrow-head from San Miguel Island, 
opposite Santa Barbara, Cal. 25720. 

Steuart, Ciiari.es A. (U. S. National Museum ). Specimen of Manilla texana. 24703. 

STEVENSON, Mrs. M. E. (U. S. Bureau of Ethnology). Two fetiches (bear) from 
X. Mex. (24622); 4 feather plumes and a stone object obtained from the Zufii 
Indians of New Mexico. Deposit. (25580). 

Stormext, Edgar L. (Tempe, Ariz. ). Three toads, 3 lizards. Uufo woodhousei, Cnemi- 
dophorus sp., Uta stansburiana and Callisaurus dracontoides,2 bats, Molossus call- 
fornicus and Atalaphacinerea (25101); specimen of Heloderma suspectum (25581). 
Exchange. 

Streng, Prof. A. (Giessen, Germany). Twenty-six minerals, including chabazite, 
phillipsite, barite, beauxite. tridymite, phacolite, faujasite, streugite, cacoxenite, 
eleanorite and gismondite. Exchange. 25789. 

Strother, W. A. (Lynchburg, Va.). Artificial stalagmite. 25800. 

Sugden, Miss E. (Haysville, Pa.). Specimen of luna-moth (Actias luna L.). 25824. 

SURBER, T. (White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.). Eggs of Tardus mustelinus, Mania 
migratoria, Tyrannus tyrannus, Harporhynchus rufus, Galeoscoptes carilinensis, 
Corvus (tmvricitniis. Sterna antillarum, Turdus ustulatus, Troglodytes cedon park- 
niiinii, Carpodacus frontalis rhodocolpus, Pipilo alberti, Quiscalus quiscula cetteus; 
a discoidal stone from Parkersburg, stone axe, and 5 arrow-heads. 24701. 

Sutherland, John (New York City). S<iuirrel-fish (Serranus fascicularis). 25305, 

Tabler, J. H. (Seabrook, Md.). Opossum. Didelphys marsupialio. 25608. 

TAKAYANAGI, T. (New York City.) Seventeen pieces pf pottery, consisting of 
Satsuma faience, Raku ware, Takatori ware, Bizen ware. Bank faience, Kioto 
ware, Imari and Tokio porcelain. Purchase. 25060. 

Tatk, Master Wiixn: B., and Harry Ransdell (Washington, D. C. ). Fragment of 
a species of Streptorhynchus from West Virginia. 21935. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 5 < 1 

Taylor, Douglas (Center Market, Washington, 1>. ('.). Specimen of spiny swell- 
fish, Chilomycterus geometricus. 25770. 

Taylor, Rev. G. YV. | Victoria, British Columbia ). Shells and slugs from Vancouver 
Island. 25033. 

Taylor, Mary M. (See under General M. ('. Meigs. I 

Tepper, J. G. O. (See under Department of Agriculture. ) 

Test. Frederick ('. (U. S. National Museum). Thirty specimens, representing 
Species oi reptiles and batrachians, chiefly from Indiana (24844); 30 salaman- 
ders (25753). 

Thayer, A. H. (Scarboro, N. V.). specimen of hog-nose snake. 25020. 

The Crown Typewriter Company (Brooklyn, X. V.). " Crown " typewriter. De- 
posit. 25588. 

The E. S. Greeley Company (New York City), through Mr. G. ('. Maynard. . Morse- 
register, sounder, relay ami key, bottle of ink and 2 rolls of paper used in 1891, 
belonging to the Old Time Telegraphers' Collection. Deposit. 25412. 

The Golding & Sons Company' (Hockessin, Del. ). Feldspar and clay used in the 
manufacture of pottery. 24720. 

The Singer Manufacturing Company (New York City). Old style Siager sewing 
machine mounted on au iron stand, and a machine of the latest improved make 
mounted on an oak stand. 24666. 

Thomas, Frederick L. (Ashton, Md.). Blue .jay (Cyanocitta cristata). 25490. 

Thomas, William S. (Washington, D.C.). Four hundred and thirty-four archaeo- 
logical specimens, consisting of Indian stone relics, fragments of pottery and 
other objects from Blagden's Hill, D. ('. Deposit. 25675. 

Thomson. John H. (New Bedford, Mass.). Stone implement (?) found on the Fair 
Haven side of the Acushnet River. Deposit. 24965. 

Thompson, Edward S. (Thompsontown, Pa.) Four hundred and eight archaeologi- 
cal objects, consisting of Indiau relics, arrow -heads, perforators, rude chipped 
implements, chipped disc, notched sinkers, polished hatchet, fragments of 
steatite vessels, fragments ofpotterj . pieces of clay and fossil shells, found along 
the shore of the Juniata River, between Thompsontown and Port Royal. 25117. 

Thompson, H. P. (Belfast Me.), through the V. S. Fish Commission. Specimen of 
Argentina situs. 24684. 

Thompson, Joiix (Oakland, Cal.). Two specimens of mourning-cloak butterfly 
( Vanessa antiopa L. ». 24634. 

Thwaites, George H. (Socorro. N. Mex.). Three tine specimens of Lepidodendron. 
25393. 

TlBBEY, P. (Butte. Mont.). Thirteen specimens of a mixture of bornite, chalco- 
cite, and pyrite. 25029. 

Tiffany* & Company (New York City). Three specimens of ornamental stone, con- 
sisting of jasper, rhodonite, and rock crystal from Asiatic Russia, and a speci- 
men of •• phantom" quartz from Brazil. 25419. Exchange. 

Tiphaine, V. L. (Lewiston, N. Y.), through Forest and stream Publishing Com- 
pany. Large specimen of bowfiu (Amia calva). 25788. 

Tollin, Oscar (Sarasota, Fla. ). Five specimens of earth star (Geaster fornicatus 
Huds.) (25436); mussel from between the lakes of Miakka (25832). 

Toms, ('apt. M. C. (Hendersonville, X. C). Twelve specimens of zircon crystals 
from the Jones Zircon Mine. Henderson County, and I of xanthitane crystals 
from the same locality, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, of the I. S. National Mu- 
seum. 24742. 

Tornquist, Leon (Lund, Sweden). Graptolites. Exchange. 24609. 

Townley, N. M.,jr. (Sayreville, N. J.). Two fossil specimeus found 10 feet under 
the bank of the Raritan River, New Jersej . 2581 1. 

Townsknd, Charles II. (Steamer Albatross, San Francisco, Cal.). Five skins of 
Steller's sea-lion (Eumetopias stelleri), and 2 specimens of Harbor sea] ( Phoca vi- 



572 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Townsend, Charles 11. — Continued. 

tiiliiid), collected near Monterey, Cal. 25503. (See under U. S. Fish Commission. 
Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park.) 

Townskxd, Tyler (Las Graces, N. Mex.). Type specimens representing 16 species 
of Muscidir, Thrincopyge ahteris, Macro-basis. Gissleri, and Oiketicus sp., with 
cocoons. 25792. 

TRAILL, W. E. (Stuart's Lake, British Columbia). Mammal skins and skulls, and 
birds' skins. 24705. 

Treasury Department. 

U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, through T. C. Mendenhall, superintendent: Alco- 
holic specimens of iusects, 2 dragonflies, butterflies, beetles, 9 filter-papers 
specimen of the sediment of Yukon River taken each month from September, 
1890, to May, 1891; alcoholic frog from (amp Davidson, Yukon River, Alaska; 
4 birds' eggs, nest and egg; specimen of Anoplarchus atropurpureus ', 13 speci- 
mens, representing 13 species of birds' skins; 2 skins of flying-squirrels, alco- 
holic specimen of mouse, and specimens of foetus of mammals, collected by As- 
sistant J. E. McGrath during his boundary expedition to Alaska (25431). 
U. S. IAfe-Savlng Service. Rare specimen of fossil crab, transmitted by Capt. J.J. 
Dunton. Keeper of Life-Saving Station, Ocean City, Md.; also quartz pehbles, 
aud 2 sea-horses {Hippocantpux hudsonim) (25640) ; skeleton of Physeter macroce- 
pliahtsjnv., from Green Pun Inlet Life-Saving Station, collected by Capt. 1 )unton 
(25346). 
U. S. Revenue Marine Service. Capt. M. A. Mealy, Steamer Bear, San Francisco, 
Cal., transmitted, through Lieut. 1). H. Jarvis. the skin of a female walrus, 
Oilnhirnus obesns, captured in Holy Cross Bay, Siberia (25474). 

TRISTRAM, Rev. H. B. (The College, Durham, Eng.). Fifty-three specimens, repre. 
senting 47 species of birds' skins from New Guinea, New Caledonia, New Hebrides 
and Fiji Islands. Exchange. 25307. 

True, Dr. A. Charles (Department of Agriculture). Six cretaceous fossils from 
Union Town, Ala. ; teetb of Corax pristodontus, Lamna elegans, and /.. cuspidata,au6 
vertebra of Lestosaurus, 25642. 

Tucker, Mrs. M. (Ortonville, Mich.). Fourteen fossil corals from the drift. 25607. 

Turner, H. W. (U. S. Geological Survey). Alcoholic specimen of shrew (Sorex 
vagrans). 24812. (See under Interior Department. F. S. Geological Survey.) 

Turner, J. H. Costumes, boat, models, tools, ivory carvings, and other ethnologi- 
cal objects. Deposit. 25562. 

TtTRNEi:. Mathew (San Francisco, Cal.). Photograph of the Jessie. 25032. 

Turner, Hon. R. W. (U. S. Consul, Cadiz, Spain), through Department of State. 
Small cast of a Phoenician tomb from Cadiz (purchase) (24786); old door from 
the convent of La Rabida at Palos, Spain (gift) (25681). 

Turpe, Albert (Brackettsville, Tex.), Fresh-water sponge from Pinto Creek, Kin- 
ney County. 21710. 

Turton, Capt. W. H. (Royal Engineers, Brompton Barracks, Chatham, England). 
( (dlection of shells from St. Helena, comprising over 400 species. 25501. 

Tyson, James W. (Baltimore, Md.). Magnetite, consisting of native gold from the 
Mineral Hill mine, Carroll County. 25648. 

Ulke, Henry (Washington, D. C). Twenty-six specimens, representing 8 rare 
species of coleoptera, collected at Blue Ridge Summit, Franklin County, Pa., 
(new to the collection) (24888); 168 specimens, representing 19 species of North 
American coleoptera (25112). 

Ulke, S. (Washington, D. C). Twelve land-shells from Hill City, South Dakota. 
25403. 

Ulke, Titus (Pueblo, Colo.). Snake, Storeria occipilomaculata, from Hill City, South 
Dakota (25115); chlorite pseudomorph after feldspar, presented to Mr. Ulke by 
Prof. Sandberger, and wulfenite from the Richmond mine, Black Hills, South 
Dakota (25374). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 573 

Unwix, F. S. (See under Dr. Julius Neumann.) 

Van Deman, H. E. (Department of Agriculture). Specimen of black skimmer 
(Ii Inj n chops nigra). 25754. 

Vaden, L., & Company (Washington, D. C), through M. I>. Knight. Two rude soap- 
stone howls found while excavating <>n Connecticut avenue extended. 25764. 

Vail, Benjamin (Washington, 1). C). JTrilobite from three miles west of Aurora, 
Ind. 25496. 

Vail, Judge Stephen. (See under Mrs. John H. Lidgerwood.) 

Vallance, Joiix. (See under Sigua Iron Company.) 

Varce, Clarence and Samuel E. (Brownsville, Ala.). Living specimen of alder- 
blight. Pemphigus tesselatus Fitch. 25037. 

Vasey, Dr. George. (See under Department of Agriculture.) 

Velie, Dr. J. W. (Chicago, 111.). Twenty-eight fresh-water shells from Minnesota. 
24961. 

Vaughan, T. Waylaxd (Mount Lebanon, La.). Seventy-five specimens, represent- 
ing 11 species of fresh-water shells from Louisiana (24848); 5 specimens of Unio 
aniens Cone (25102) ; specimens representing 3 species of Unio (25160) ; 23 species 
of Eocene fossils (25473). 

Verbill, Prof. A..E. (See under Peabody Museum.) 

Vox Streeruwitz, W. (State Geological Survey, Houston, Tex.). Two specimens 
of silver copper ores from Hazel Miue, El Paso County (gift) (24725); ores and 
rocks from Texas (exchange) (25059); rocks and building-stone (gift) (25206); 
rocks and ores from Texas; black mica and fossil wood (gift) (25482). 

Votii, Rev. T. R. (Darlington, Okla. ). Tomahawk pipe. Purchase. 25145. 

Wagner Free Institute of Science (Philadelphia, Pa.). Twenty-seven species 
of land-shells from Jamaica, West Indies (24694); through Mr. Joseph Willcox, 
collection of Pliocene fossils from the Waccamaw River, South Carolina (25522). 

Walcott, C. D. (U. S. Geological Survey). Four specimens of calcite from Smith's 
Basin, Washington County, N. Y. (25191); contorted slate from near Wells, Rut- 
land County, Vt. (25207) ; 5 echinoids, 5 specimens of flint and the tooth of 
a shark from the cretaceous chalk of Croydon, England (25218). (See under 
Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Walker, ERNEST (New Albany, Ind.). Plants from Kentucky and Indiana. 24673. 

Wallace, Mrs. Catharine (Melbourne, Australia). Fungus growth from New 
Zealand, representing the genus Torrubia. 25599. 

Wallace, W. O. (Wabash, Ind.), through Dr. O. P. Hay. Snake, Tropodonotus lebcris. 
25656. 

Wallingsford, W. W. (II. S. National Museum). Two horse-chestnuts used as a 
charm against rheumatism. 24828. 

Ward's Natural Science Establishment (Rochester, N. Y.). Fruit-bat (Pteropus 
lanigera) (type specimen) from the Samoan Islands (purchase) (24559); 6 alco- 
holic specimens of bats (purchase) (24566) ; mounted and unmounted mammal 
skins.including a moose, 2 specimens of wapiti, 3 mounted alpacas, a llama 
and others (purchase) (24574); 15 skins and 8 mounted mammals consisting of 
Felis colocolo (?), Lama paca juv., Lama glama, Lama vicugna, Chlamydophorus 
truneatus, Putorious vison (mounted), Felis concolor, Aloes machlis, Cervus cana- 
densis juv., Bison americanus, Cebus oapucinus, Cebus variegatus, Lutrafelina, Pro- 
ciion caucrivorus, Capromys pilorides, Tatusia peba, Lutra brasiliensis, Rapalerosa- 
lia, Mephitis mephitica, Pithecia nocturna (skins) (purchase) (24650); specimens 
of fluorite, siderite after fluorite, barite, aragonite, opal, native mercury, 
and kriinkite (exchange) (24762); specimens of calcite. pyromorphite, torber- 
uite, hematite, orthoclase, realgar, orpiment rhodochrosite, columbite, fluorite. 
sodalite, eudialite and prehnite (purchase) (24778) ; specimens for the synoptic 
series of invertebrates (purchase) (24983); series of models of nervous, circula- 
tory, and digestive systems of various invertebrates and vertebrates (purchase) 
(25052); 4 skins of moles and 6 of shrews (purchase) (25133). 



574 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Ward, Prof. Lester F. (See under Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Warner, Ambrose (Washington, D. ('.). Stone axe found near Bladensburg, Md. 
Deposit, 21X33. 

Warner, William (Salem, Oregon). Two skins of dusky screech owl (Megascops 
asio x<i turn his). 25699. 

Warner, William J. (Salem, Oregon). Skin of jumping-mouse (Zapua Jiudsonim). 
25614. 

Warner, W. S. (See under Florida Phosphate Company.) 

Warren, Dr. B. H. (West Chester, Pa.). Bats, and 1 skins of hats. 25391. 

WARREN, EWEN, jr., & COMPANY (Chicago, 111.). Four architectural drawings, 
printed by the company's multi-color process. 25073. 

Waters, /. 1>. (Baltimore, Md.). Collection of Japanese costumes and objects of 
industry and worship. Purchase. 25804. 

Watts, Blake, Bearne iV Company (Newton Abbe, Devonshire, England), through 
Mr. R. N. Worth. Pipe, pottery, and earthenware clay, and samples of molding- 
sand. 25527. 

Wayman, G. Turner (Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, West Indies). About 1050 speci- 
mens, representing 90 species of butterflies. Purchase. 25335. (See under 
Wells, jr., U. S. N.) 

Wayne, Arthur C. (Old Town, Fla.). Skins of swallow-tailed kite (Elanoides for- 
ficatus) from Florida . 25829. 

Weaver & Ihl (New York City, N. Y.). Specimen of winter flounder (Pseudo- 
pleuronectes am erica tins) from the coast of New England. 25380. 

Webb, Hon. Alexander R. (U. S. Consul, Manila, Philippine Islands). Two packs 
of playing-cards, 2 rattan globes or balls used by natives (gift) (24782); 7 spoons 
and paddles used by natives, Bolo or handy knife (native), 9 games, puzzle, 12 
bamboo musical instruments (25806).* 

Webis, De Witt (St. Augustine, Fla,). Three hundred and thirty-nine archaeolog- 
ical objects, consisting of shell implements, fragments of pottery, bone imple- 
ments, human bones, bones of fishes, animals and birds from shell-mounds near 
St. Augustine. 25232. 

Webb, Judge John G. (Osprey, Fla.). Four star-fishes. 25568. 

Webb, J. S. (Disputanta, Va.). Molar tooth of a mastodon. 25629. 

Webb, Walter F. (Geneva, N. Y.). Sets of eggsof Symphemia semipalmatainornata, 
Zonotrichia leucopTweys, Zonotrichia coronata, Arhphispiza belli ncrade sis, from 
California and Nevada (gift) (24990); 5 sets of eggs of Larus californicus from 
Pyramid Lake, Nevada (gift) (25036); 8 eggs of bridled tern (Sterna ancethetus), 
and 4 eggs of white-crowned pigeon (Cohunha leucocephala) from Atwood's and 
Acklin's Islands, Bahamas (purchase) (25166); 109 specimens of birds' eggs, 
representing 12 species, and 30 sets of eggs, consisting of Empidonax acadicus, 
Cistothorv,8 palustris, Piranga erythromelas, Icteria virens, Mimus polyglottos, 
/Egialitia wileonia, Helinaia swainsonii, Passerina ciris, Guiraoa ccerulea, Icterus 
spuriu8, Sterna antillarum, and Quiscalus major; also ten nests (gift) (25323). 
Webster, George W. (Lake Helen, Fla,). Land and fresh-water shells from 
Florida, Michigan and Tennessee. 24626. 

Weed, Walter H. (See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey.) 

Weedon, W. C. (See under Smithsonian Institution. National Zoological Park,) 

Weems, David G. (Baltimore, Md.). Photograph and cyanotype of electric- motor 
car (25186); electric motor that made the fastest authentic speed on land "by 
generated power,'' and 2 photographs of the same, accompanied by a certificate 
of the speed of the motor (25856). 

* These objects were purchased by Mr. Webb for the National Museum at the re- 
quest of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 575 

Weil Brothers (Alexandria, Va.). Spanish coin dated L781. 24599. 

Wellington, A. M. (Sec under Engineering News.) 

Wells, Ensign Roger, Jr. (U. S. Navy), through <;. Turner Wayman, esq. Alco- 
holic specimen of reptiles, alcoholic specimens of hummingbird, Amazilia erythro- 
nota, alcoholic crab, and alcoholic specimen of squilla, speeimeu of cascadnra, 
ffoplostemum littorale, X hats and a mouse, 25336. (See under Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. National Zoological Park). 

Welsh, Mr. (See under Kingston Exposition, Jamaica Court.) 

Wesley & Son. (Sec under Thomas Rogers. > 

West, Gerald M. (Worcester, Mass.). Two Indian '-Crooked Knives." Wdkaginigmi , 
obtained from the Miemses of Nova Scotia. 25538. 

Westall, S. J. (Paint Gap, N. C). Specimens of chrysotile from near the South 
Toe Post Office, Yancey County, collected by Mr. W. S. Yeates, of the U. S. 
National Museum. 24998. 

Weston, Arthur II. (Georgiana, Fla. ). Fragments of Indian pottery from Brevard 
County. 24709. 

WHITE, A. W. (Albert Lea, Minn.). Seven stone implements, consisting of knives. 
arrow and spear-heads, from the vicinity of the Great Lakes. Exchange. 2.1492. 

White, Dr. C. A. (See under Interior Department. I . S. Geological Survey.) 

Waite, Dr. C. H. (U. S. Navy. Navy Department). Crude nitrate of soda from 
Iquique, Chile; collection of miscellaneous insects from Acapulco, Mexico, and 
Payto, Peru. 24624. 

White, E. II. (Astoria, Oregon). Laud and fresh-water shells. 24869. 

White, Harrv G. (Department of Agriculture). Red-tailed hawk {Buteo borealis) 
ami short-eared owl (Asio accipilrinus) in the flesh from Arlington, Virginia. 
25076. 

Waite, Miss (Theological Seminary, near Alexandria, Va.). Nest of wasp. 25665. 

Whitton, William R. (Seattle, Wash. ). Part of the lower molar of a fossil elephant, 
Elephas primigenius* 25161. 

Wilbur, Miss Charlotte D. (Newark, N. .1.). Autograph reeeiptof William Henry 
Harrison, clerk of the North West Territory. toMatthias Denman, dated May 21. 
L800, indorsed by John Cleves Symmes. 25552. 

Wilbur, Mrs. Matthias Denmax (Newark, N. .1. >. Military land patent, signed by 
John Adams, President of the United States, dated Philadelphia, March 28, L800, 
granting 4,000 acres in the North West Territory to Matthias Denman. Deposit. 
25551. 

Wieland, George R. (State College. Pa.). Specimens of siliceous oolitic rock. 
(Gift, exchange.) (24831, 25106.) 

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., U. S. Army (Fort Hnachuca, Arizona). An interesting 
and valuable collection of reptiles, consisting of 20 specimens, representing 13 
species, including Crotalns molossm, /''Japs euryxanihus, Kinosternon senoriense. 
and others, insects, mammals, specimens of mirror carp (Cyprinus carpio) and 
chul) (Squalius)) alcholic specimens of birds (25101); living horned toad 
(25653). 

Wilcox, Walter D. (New Haven, Conn.). Seventy-four specimens of carboniferous 
fossils representing 17 species from Mt. Stephen, British Columbia, consisting of 
derotreta gemma, var., depressa Walcott, Agnostus inter strictus; Alga (t); Acrothele 
subsidua; Hyolitltes sp. undet. ; ffyolithellua sp. undet. ; Graptolites; Hypostoma 
sp. undet.; Kutoigina like stissingensis ; Linguella mcconnelli; Orthisisina alberta : 
sponge, Scenella sp. undet.; Ogygopsis klotzi (f); Ptychoparia sp. undet.; Ptycho- 
paria eordillerw, Bathyuriscus howelli; Olenoides nevadensis; Zacanthoidea spinosus. 
25155. 

.Wilder, Prof. 15. (i. (See under Cornell University.) 

W r ILDMAX, Hon. ROUNSEVELLE ( 1'. S. Consul, Singapore, Straits Settlements). 



576 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Wildman, Hon. ROUNSEVELLE — Continued. 

Malay musical instruments, kris, war-shield and game of chance (24951);* col- 
lection of shells, Dyak and Malay ethnological objects, musical instruments, 
and corals (25862), 

Wilkinson, E. (Mansfield, Ohio). Specimens of Branchiopus. 25435. 

Willcox, .Joseph (Philadelphia, Pa.). Minerals (24802) ; tertiary fossils from North 
Carolina and Florida (25472). (See under Wagner Free Institute of Science, 
Philadelphia.) 

Williams, Dr. George H. (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.). Contorted 
rock from Sugar Loaf Mountain ( 25057) ; minerals consisting of auglesite, cerus- 
site. graphite, carrollite, tremolite after pyroxene, celestite, kammererite, 
baltimorite, barite, dolomite, chrome tourmaline, pucherite, and amphibole 
showing sliding planes (25450). Exchange. 

Williams, J. H. (Charleston, S. C), through R. L. Garner. Fragments of leg-bone 
and vertebra (reptilian) from the phosphate beds of Charleston, S. C. 25125. 

Williams, R. S. (Great Falls, Mont.). Nest and 4 eggs of Geothlypis macgillivrayi, 
and nest and 3 eggs of Empidonax Jiaviventris, representing rare and desirable 
species (24630); through Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. A., 2 skins of west- 
ern flycatcher (Empidonax difflcilis) (24832). 

Williamsbi'koii Scientific Society (Brooklyn, X. Y.). Fossil rock found in the 
Catskill Mountains (25500); through Mr. Louis Kirsch, fossil rock from High 
Falls, Greene County, in the Catskill Mountains, 2 specimens of beryl and 7 of 
garnet from the mica mines, New Milford, Connecticut (25719). 

Williamson, II. W. (New Galilee, Pa.). Twenty-nine stone implements from Penn- 
sylvania, Maryland, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee and New Mexico. 21838. 

Willige, J. Louis (U. S. National Museum). Ancient German accordion brought 
from Germany by Mrs. Mary Mertag about 1850. 25584. 

Willis, Bailey. (See under Interior Department. IT. S. Geological Survey.) 

Willis, E. (Charleston, S. C). Collection of soft, hard, and pebble Florida phos- 
phates. 2 Hi 10. 

Wilson, N. L. (Boston, Mass.). Specimen of tremolite on dolomite from Lee, Mas- 
sachusetts; sphalerite with implanted marcasite crystals from Webb City, Mo. 
Exchange. 25738. 

Wilson, Scott B. ( Heatherbank, Weybridge, Surrey, England). Skin of Loxioides 
bailloui from Hawaii (gift) (25142); alcoholic specimens of Hcemalione sanguinea, 
Loxioides bailloui, I'luroinis obscura, Hemignaihus procerus, Oreomyza bairdi (pur- 
chase) (25638) ; alcoholic specimens of Hosmatione sanguinea, Hemignaihus pro- 
cerus and Oreomyza bairdi (gift) (25639). 

Wilson, Thomas (U. S. National Museum). Seven rude implements from Burling- 
ton, New Jersey, 16 rude implements from Morris Island, and 151 specimens, 
comprising implements, cores, flakes, and other objects of argillite, from near 
Point Pleasant, Bucks County, Pennsylvania (24891); 9 leaf-shaped imple- 
ments, 2 worked flakes, 31 arrow-heads. 3 polished hatchets, pendant or 
sinker, and 2 drilled tablets (surface finds) from near the "Hopewell Enclosure 
and Tumuli," Ross County, Ohio (25461). Deposit. (See under Dr. N. L. 
Britton.) 

Wilson Mining Company (Brunswick, Me.). Feldspar and quartz from the quarry 
of the company atTopsham. 25585. 

Winston, B. C. (Monterey. Cal.), through Alaska Commercial Company. Mounted 
porpoise (Delphinus sp.), from Carmel Bay. 2572!*. 

Witman BROTHERS (Reading, Pa.). Sandstone from the Pennsylvania, quarries: 
25443. 



* Purchased for the National Museum at the request of the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. f)77 

Wolf, Dr. Joseph P. (Elkton, Va.). Esostosetl tooth of horse, Equm caballus. 
125612. 

Wolfe, M. (Dayton, Ohio). Half-tone negative, etched reJief-hlock, and impres- 
sion from the block, reproducing a scale of tints from black to white (25176); 
an 8x10 sealed screen. 124 lines to the inch (25274). Purchase. 

WOLHAUPTER, Dr. 1). P. (See under Maj. W. H. Powell.) 

Wood, Miss E. M. (Liscard, Cheshire, England). Seven colored figures of jelly-fishes 
and other invertebrates (25182); 10 colored figures of invertebrates (25816). 
Purchase. 

WOOD, Tingle y S. (Leadville, Colo.). Two specimens of cerussite from Silver Cord 
Mine, collected by Prof. S. L. Peutield, of the U. S. Geological Survey- 
24X10. 

WOODHTJLL, Miss M. (Washington, I). C). Spinning wheels, reel, butter-bowl, 
wooden paddle, and pewter platter. 25766. 

Woodruff, Dr. Charles E., 1". S. Army (Fort Missoula. Mont.) Stone baking- 
dish obtained from the Hupa Indians of California (gift i (25043); through Mr. 
Garrick Mallery, of the Bureau of Ethnology, a collection of photographs relat- 
ing to the same tribe (deposit) (25158). 

Woods, Frank T. (Charcas, Mexico) through P. L. Jouy. Ores from Santa Ynez 
Mine. 25212. 

Woodwahi), Dr. Henry (see under British Museum. London. England). 

Woolman, A. J. (see under J. T. Seoville). 

Wooster, A. F. (Norfolk, Conn.). Coin from Hayti (24529); bat (Adelonycteris fus- 
cus) (24911); copper coin from France, dix centimes of 1864 (25485). 

Worcester Society of Antiquity (Worcester, Mass.), through Thomas A. Dickin- 
son, librarian. Photographs of a typewriter invented by Mr. Charles Thurber 
in 1843. 25169. 

Worth, R. N. (Plymouth, England). Ores (24794); geological materials (25233). 
Exchange. (See under Watts, Blake, Bearne & Company.) 

Worth, S. G. (care of U. S. Fish Commission). Tools used in lapping trees for 
turpentine, from Clinton, North Carolina. 25086. 

Worthen, Charles K. (Warsaw, 111.). Two skins of Opossum (Di'delphys marsu- 
2)ialis), (24588); skins of 18 species of North American mammals (24678); skins of 
26 species of North American mammals (24679); skin of spermophile (Spermo- 
pMlus sp.), skin of kangaroo rat, skin of mole (Scalops sp.), 2 skins of pouched 
gopher (Geomys personatns) from Padre Island, Texas (24792); 2 skins of Mearn's 
field-mice (Sltomys mearnsi) and 2 skins of Allen's spiny-rat (Heteromys alleni) 
(24875); collection of 10 North American rodents (25137). 

Wyard, Mrs. (Washington, D. C), through Mr. AY. II. Dall. Two specimens of 
paradise trogon or quetzal (Pharomacru* mocdno), and a crow (Corvus ameri 
rati us) (25868). 

Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict (New York City). Three old-style typewriters 
(deposit) (24590) ;old-style Remington typewriter. No. 172, used in the Museum 
for several years past (purchase) (24680); Malling-Hansen typewriter from 
Copenhagen, Denmark (gift) (24969); 5 Remington typewriters of the style now 
in use (deposit) (25587). 

Wunderlich, H., & Co. (New York City). Engravings by .lames Lutma and Israel 
Van Meckenem. Purchase. 25589. 

Yale, Charles (Louisiana, Mo.). Specimens of orthoceras. Purchase. 24652. 

Yeates, William S. (U. S. National Museum). Indian banner-stone found nea r 
Zircouia, North Carolina. 24999. (See under W. A. Arlington, D. A. Bowman. 
Robert T. Claywell, Interior Department. U. S. Geological Survey, Dr. Levi 
Jones, Morgauton Land Improvement Company, Garrett D. Ray, J. C. Shelton, 
Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National Mnseum, Capt. M, C. Toms, S. L. 
Westall.) 

H. Mis, 114, pt. 2 37 



578 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 

Yeoman, W. H. (Washington, D. C.)- A living alligator from St. Augustine Flor- 
ida. 25068. 

YOUNG, J. A. (Bellevue, Iowa). Four crinoids from Tennessee. 24855. 

Zaun, Heniiy (< >maha, Neb. ) Specimen of asbestiform serpentine from Casper Moun- 
tain, Wyoming. 24783. 

Zahniser, Miss Katherine G. (Mercer, Pa.). Specimen of owl-moth (Catocala cara). 
24948. 

Zeller, Max (New York, N. Y.). Specimen of Heinrich's gelatin for collographic 
work, No. 1319 hard. 24688. 

Zooloical Society of London (London, Eng.), through P. L. Sclater, .secretary. 
Cjkius of African mammals from Capt. Swayne's Somali collection. 25576, 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST, 



INDEX A.— BY LOCALITY. 
AFRICA. 



Accession 
number. 

A iller, Dr. Cyrus 24683, 25565 

Ancey, ('. F 25320,25465, 25556 

Babcock, A. L 25248 

Brown, A. H Jt74C. 

( !amp, J. H 25504, 25561 

('hauler, "William Astor. 24907 

Cory. 0. B 25025 

G rant-Be v. Dr. James 25741 



Good, Rev. A. ( ' 

(iiirley, It. It 

Hendley, John 

Museum of Natural History. Paris, France 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy 

Smithsonian Institution. 1". S. National 

Museum 



Accession 
number. 
.. 25654 
. . ' 25397 
24886 
25691 
24918 



25702 



State. Department of 25601 



AMERICA. 

NORTH AMERICA. 



British America. 



Agriculture, Department of. . . .24940. 25111, 25139, 

25554 

Aldrich, J. M 25::5s 

Ami, Henri M 25440 

Armitage, John H 25043 

Bacon, Mrs. Oliver T 25040 

Bowditch, F. C 25593 

Bruner, Prof. L 24970 

Bryant. Henry G 24288 

Clay. Col. Cecil 25140 

( !r< isby, Prof. W. O 25623 

Dall, William H 24535 

I >ie1 /.. ( (ttomar 25491 

Eaton, Miss Lucy C 25732 

Eicbboff, Dr. William 25498 

Fish Commission, U. S 24754 

Geological Survey of Canada 25326 

Green, Ashdown 24711 

Harris, Joseph A 24012 

Harvey, Eev. M 257s:; 

Hartman, J. M 24801 

Interior Department. 1". S. Geological 

Survey 24593 



Klotz, Otto J 

MacFarlane, K 21594,24001, 

McLaren, Charles 

Naval Eclipse Expedition, V . S 

Pope, H 

Richmond, Charles W 

Rogers, Thomas ' 

Rominger, Dr. Karl 

Row,.. C. H 

Russell, Frank 

Scidmore, Miss E. It 

Spicer, Capt. John <) 

Stearns, Frederick 

Stearns. Dr. R. E. C 

Taylor, Rev. G. W 

Traill, W. E 

Turner, J..H 

Turton, Capt. W. H..R.E 

Clke, Henry 

West, Gerald M 

Wilcox, Walter D 

Worthen, C K 24078, 



Mexico. 



Agriculture, Department of 25287 

Alexander, John 25189 

Bourke, Capt. John G., V. S. A ..24899, 25103, 25152 

Cooke. Miss J.N 25842 

Crosby, F. W 25272 

Davis, Britton 24878 

Dtfges, Prof. A 2 n 27, 25780 

Foote, A. E 25205 

Herrera, Prof. A. L 24769 



McGee, W.J 

Nuifctall, Mrs. Zelia 

Orcutt, C.E 

Pfordte, Otto F 

Pringle, C. G 21014, 

Palmer, Edward 

Ragsdale, G. II 

Robinette, Frank 24698, 24854, 2486J(. 

Seoville. J.T.... 

579 



25191 
25016 
24973 
2570) 
25044 
24745 
25041 
25325 
25577 
25615 
25236 
24583 
24961 
25507 
2 r . 133 
2470". 
25562 
25601 
25112 
25538 
25155 
24679 



25195 
247! >4 
25840 
25278 
25883 
2460 I 
2171 ' 
25876 

- ., 



580 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Accession 
number. 

Smith. E. Kirby 24775,25080 

Smithsonian Institution. V. S. National 

Museum 24572. 24045, 24080, 25257, 25444 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoolog- 
ical Park 25410 



Accession 
number. 

Stanley, H. M 24595 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C 25841 

White, Dr. C. H.. U. S. N 24624 

Woods, Frank T 25212 

Woolman, A. J 25859 



United States. 



ALABAMA: 

Agee, N. A 25208 

Avery, Dr. William C 25701 

Burns, Frank 25:S59, 25363 

Interior Department, r. S. Geological 

Survey 25725, 25851 

Little John, Chase 25592 

Smithsonian Institution. National 

Zoological Park 25128 

True, Dr. ( 'harles A 25042 

Varce, C. & S. E 25037 

Alaska : 

Agriculture, Department of 25554 

Alien. George A 25046 

Arnheim, Julius S 24539 

Fish Commission. P. S 25079,25080 

25154, 25102, 25708 
Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Survey 25250 

Littlejohn, Chase 25518 

Millmore, William 24770 

Murdoch, John 25515, 25645 

Russell, I. C 25293 

Scidmore, Miss E. R 25236 

Smithsonian Institution. National 

Zoological Park 24879 

ARIZONA: 

Agriculture, Department of 24542 

Allen, George A 25402 

Bowman, D. A 24549 

Brown, C F 25750 

Brown, Herbert 24629. 24799, 24856 

24962, 25487 

Crosby, F. W 25272 

Dodge, Mrs. Charles, jr 25088 

Foote, A. E 24751 

Fowler, Fred 25726 

Hemenway, Mrs Mary 25631 

Hemenway Southwestern Arclueolog- 

ical Expedition 25338 

Liston, Rev. R. T 24608, 21616 

Marsh, George B 24G51 

Mindeleff, Cosmos 24988 

O'Neill, William ( > 24504. 2552". 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Patrick, Isaac 24915 

IVnfield, Prof. S. L 25421 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Na- 
tional Museum 24528. 24537. 24572. 245s,',, 

24643, 24045. 24080. 25101, 25198, 
25199, 25220. 25247, 25250.25281 

Wilcox, Dr. T. E., U. S. A 25401,25653 

.ARKANSAS: 

Brown, C. F 24707, 2S750 

Cowan, R. L 24798 



Arkansas— Continued. 

Interior Department. 1\ S. Geological 

Survey . 24803 

Jenney, Dr. \Y\ P 25253, 25276 

Pleas, C. E 25417,25778 

Sampson, F. A 24685 

( lALIFORNIA: 

Agriculture, Department of 24542 24628, 

24816,24889,24890,24950, 
25005. 25000, 25356, 25400 

Arnheim, Julius 25439, 25847 

Pick, RolloH 24035,25477 

Belding, L 24846, 25438, 25641, 25660 

Benson, Lieut. Harry (.'., 1\ S. A .25756,25790 

Bowers, Hon. W. W 25183 

Bragg, L. C 24728, 25173 

Brett, Walter 24743 

Crosby, F.¥r 25272 

Dall, WilliamH 25840 

Davidson, A 25246 

Fish Commission, TJ. S 25154 

Frost, L. L 25252 

Giddings, Miss Bertha S 24858 

Gould, Dr. H. W 24638 

Hemphill, Henry 25011 

Huntley, John 25709 

Interior Department . I'.S. Geological 

Survey 25627, 25725 

Jenney, Dr. W. P 25422 

Littlejohn, Chase 25281,25731 

Lowe, Caniille 24822 

Lowe, Dr. James H 24723 

Monks, Miss S. P 25844 

Nelson, E. W 24863, 25180 

Orcutt, C. R 25840 

Pattee, T. B 25084.25757 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Picher, Miss Anna 25019 

Pond, Lieut. Charles F., TJ. S. N 25610 

Ricksecker, L. E 24668 

Sanford. O.N 25845 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C 25507,25841 

Stephenson, A 25720 

Thompson, John 24634 

Townsend, C. H 25503 

Turner, Mathew 25032 

WCbb, Walter F 24990 

Winston, B. C 25729 

Woodruff, Dr. Charles E., TJ. S. A. .25043. 25158 

Colorado: 

Blackburn, Edwin 25085 

Charlton, T 25054 

Crosby, F. W 25272 

Endlich, Dr. F. M 24772 

Engel. Lewis 24548 

Hall, I. T. M. 25448 



INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 



581 



Accession 
number. 

Colorado — Continued. 

Interior Department. U.S. Geological 

Survey 24763, 24780, 25261 . 25725 

Jackson, Thomas H 25045 

Jones. \V. W 25368 

Kedzie, G. E 24748 

Lambuth, J. W 25536 

Loper, S. "Ward 25546 

McGregor, R. C 25243 

Moller, Theodore 2 1994 

Ralph, Dr. William L 24851 

Sa.ltler, M, A 24546 

Smith, William G -'5407, 25460, 25818 

Smithsonian Institution. National 

Zoological Park 25135 

Thomas, William S 25(175 

Wood, Tingle.y S 24810 

( lONNECTICUT: 

Farrington. O. C 24581,24639 

Hall, Charles H 24895 

Interior Department. U.S. Geological 

Survey 24627 

- Linton, W.J 25259 

Loper, S. Ward 25200. 25428 

Penfield, Prof. S. L 25202 

Rice, Prof. William North 25210 

Shaw, James C 2471s 

The Singer Manufacturing Company. 24666 

Southwick & Critehley 24662 

Williamsburg Scientific Society 25719 

WoosterA. F 24911 

Delaware: 

A nderson, J. V 25704 

The Golding & Sons ( 'ompany 24720 

District of Columbia : 

Abbott, W. H 24072 

Abert, Dr. Charles 246" 

A dler, Dr. Cyrus 25; 

Agriculture, Department of 24531, 2453- 

24533, 25628 

Baker, A. B 24978 

Barber, F. A 24563 

Beal, Kenneth F 25723, 25773, 25814 

Bean, Dr. T. II 25495 

Beckwith, Paul 24834' 

Bendire, Capt, C. E., U. S. A 25827 

Boehmer, George H 25001, 25178 

Boswell, Henry 25220 

Brown, R. W .24534, 24598, 24767, 24963 

25021,25075,25793 

Bryant, CM 25429 

Burdine, W. T 25730 

Burger, Peter 24923, 25107 

Carmick. Master Louis 24847 

Coll.urn, Dr. G. F. J 25613 

Connor. Paul D 25118 

Cox, Mrs. S. S 25475 

Dall, William II 2524 1 . 253 1 7 

Denton, Sherman F 24557 

Fagan, Thomas C 25752 

Karnham, A. B '. 24781 

Ferguson, William T 24979 

Figgins, J. D 24800, 24955 



Accession 
number. 
District of Columbia— Continued. 

Fish Commission, U. S 24959,25055, 

25121,25193,25370, 
25547,25570,25650 

Fosdick, Charles R 25094 

Garner, Jesse 25915 

Giddings. Charles F 25000 

( Joode, Dr. G. Brown 25G70. 25685. 25848 

Green, Bernard R 2~>727 

Hall, B. H 24900 

Hanuka, Pinkas 24953 

Hazen, Mrs. Mildred McLean 25748 

Heaton, Charles M 25119 

Henshaw, II. W 25291,25322 

Hilgard, Mrs. J. E 25172 

Hitchcock, Frank II 25574 

Hood, John H 24884 

Howell, Edwin E 25277 

Ingle, Edward 25163 

Interior Department. U. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey 25090, 25192. 25451 

James, Joseph F 25621 

Javins, F. H 25:;G7 

Javnis & Co 25710 

Johnston, Miss F. B 25319 

Kelly, John F 24817 

Langdale, John W 25452, 25673 

Lee, George 24980 

Lee, W. G 24540, 24788 

Louderman, H . B 25156 

Lucas, Frederic A 25471 

Luchs, Leopold 25362 

McCullough, Mrs. C. L 25489 

McLaren, William A 25571 

Marron, Thomas 24768 

Marshall, George 25667 

Maynard, George C 24944, 25097, 25413 

Meigs, Gen. M. C, U. S. A. .24827. 25386, 25469 

Miller, Capt. James M 25672 

Mitch. -11, Guy E 25167 

Moreland , Walter 25794 

Murdoch, John 25333 

Palmer, William 25127, 25130 

Parsons, Miss Katherine 25600 

1'ayne, Robert H 25093 

Payne, Samuel 25682 

Quives, George A 25053 

Rabbitt, Samuel 24386 

Ramshurg, C. S 24092 

Regular Army and Navy Union, 

U.S. A '. 25116 

Richmond, Charles W 24736, 24773, 25067 

Ridgway, R 24502, 24744, 24868 

Roberts, W. F 24774 

Rogers. Sydney H : 2507-i 

Schenck, Charles D 25872 

Schmid, Edward S. . . .24985, 24987, 25279, 25302 
25058, 25690, 25694, 25697. 25737. 25749, 25871 

Scudder,N.P 25573 

Seibert, S. R 25603 

Sclby, Willie 25144 

Shuieldt. Percy W 24587 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A 24691,25865 



»82 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Accession 
number. 

District of Colombia— ( ontinued. 

Shufeldt, R. W., jr 24620 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M.. .25228,- 25230, 25251, 25837 
Smithsonian Institution. V. S. Na- 
tional Museum 24877, 25771 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zo- 
ological Park 24829, 24920, 25013, 25038 

25049, 25128, 25129, 2513G. 25138, 25209 
25229, 25275, 25695, 25696, 25810, 25870 

Stearns, Dr. E. E. C 25604 

Stcvjneger, Dr L 24561 , 24867 

Steuart, C. A 24703 

Taylor, Douglas 25770 

Turner, H. W 24812 

"Vaden, L. & Company 2576 1 

Van Deman, II. E 25754 

Wallingford, W. W 24828 

Woodhull, Miss W 25766 

Wyard, Mrs 25868 

Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict 24590, 24680 

Florida : 

Angell, G. W. J 24675 

Boyne, R 25454 

Crissey, Dr. Sardis L 25078 

Crosby, F. W 25644 

Florida Phosphate < !onipany 24676 

Gibbes. Prof. Lewis R 24977 

Hale. Dr. E. M 25595 

Henderson, J. E., jr 25300 

Hill, C. A. 1) 25717 

Hopkins, C. L .- 25626 

3 enks, Prof. J. W. P ^\-J 

Johnson, L. C 2 199 1 

Johnson, Judge L. C 25877 

Kost, Dr. J 247.-,:i 

Lowe, Braxton B 25245 

Lynch, Alexander 24604 

Merriam. Dr. < '. Hart 25853 

Porter. W. B 25092, 25185 

Ralph, Dr. William L 24575, 25786 

Ross. Mrs. George P 2552] 

Simpson, Charles T 25300 

Soutbwick & Critchley 24916 

Tollin, Oscar 25436, 2:,s::j 

Wayne, Arthur T , 25829 

Webb, De Witt 25232 

Webb, Judge John G 25568 

Webster, George W ' 24626 

Weston. Arthur H 24709 

Willcox, Joseph 25472 

Willis, E .*. 24640 

Yeoman. W. H 25068 

GEOROIA: 

Collett, T. R 24968 

Hart, J. C 24741 

Interior Department. U. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey 25260 

Neal, Dr. James C 2465G 

Steiner, Dr. R 25321 

IDAHO: 

Ching, John 25297 

Drake, C. F ... 25081 

Interior Department. D". S. Geologi- 
cal Survey 25034 

Markson, Philip A 24934 



Accession 
number. 

Illinois: 

Adams, Mrs. Sarah M 258 15 

Andrews, A. II . & Co 25348 

( lianute, O 25399 

Ewen, Warren, jr.; & Co 25073 

Ferris, James II 24632 

Hodge, H. G 25799 

Lord. A. W 2528<i, 25409, 25553, 25784 

Morcom, G. Frean 24980 

Loi;ers, ( ). P 24658 

Schenck, J 25344 

Williamson, II. W 24836 

W. ,rl hen, C. K 34588 24875, 25137 

Indiana: 

Evansville Pressed Brick Company.. 25854 

Hay. I>r. (). P 246S7, 2479.", 

Hendricks, G. D 25462 

Lemon. Dr. J. H 25514 

McCoy. Herbert N 2484:; 

Ridgway, R 24766 

Test. Frederick ( ' 24844, 25753 

Vail, Benjamin 2549,6 

Walker, Ernest 24673 

Wallace, W. 25656 

Indian Territory: 

Engel, Lewis 24548 

Holmes, W. II 25224 

Iowa : 

Binney, W. G 24596 

Brock, Herbert E 2464 1 . 25508, 25683 

Hanske, E. A 24938. 25377 

Lowenstein, Dr. William 25012 

Russell, Frank 25655 

Young. J. A 24855 

Kansas: 

Baker, A. B 24G92, 25132 

< Jowie, James 25213 

Cre veeoeur, F . F 25028 

Ferris, James H 24632 

Hay, Prof. Robert 25254 

Higday, H. M 24871 

Ilovey, George U. S 25630 

Interior Department. U. S. ( leological 

Survey 24930 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zo- 
ological Park 25126 

Kentucky: 

Ruins. W. R 24592,25415 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Survey 25541 

Lane. L. C 2552:t 

Menefee, Speeds 24730 

Montgomery, S. H 25375 

Newport, Miss Eddie 24894 

Owsley, Dr. W. T 24821 

Walker, Ernest 2407:; 

Williamson, W. W 24838 

Louisiana : 

Bartholomew & Co 25405 

Johnson, S. B .• 24704 

Shumaker, P. F 25797 

Vaughan, T. Wayland 24848,25102 

25160, 25473 



INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 



583 



Accession 
number. 
MAINE: 

Bayley, Prof. W. S 25366 

Dole Brothers 25430 

Forest and Stream Publishing Com 

pany. New York City 25170 

Hamlin, Dr. A. C 24943 

Hill, Dr. W. Scott 25858 

Jenney, Dr. "W. P 25422 

Lamb, T. F 24928 

Norton, Arthur II 25463 

Parker, A. II 25164,25632 

Rich, J. G 25289 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zo- 
ological Park 25120 

Thompson. HP 24684 

WilsonMintag Company, Brunswick, 

Mai- o 25585 

MARYLAND: 

Abort, Charles 25057 

Bean, Dr. T. H 25440 

Benedict, James E 25074 

Boswell, J. H 24591 

Bryan, C.N 24837 

Carter, James C "^5437 

Dufour, Dr 25168 

Eakins, L. G 24809 

Fick, G. A 247:!3 

Foster Brothers 25659 

Hart, George B 24649 

Herell, F. J 24648 

Hitchcock. Frank H 253i 0, 25:81,25493 

25530,25540,25544 

Leizear, H. H 25505 

Leizear, W. G.W 25280 

Leonhardt, Peter 24956, 25596 

Marshall. George 24682,24793,25618,25707 

Marshall. Henry 24561 24570. 25331,25497 

25679 

Metealf, H. I) 25258 

Morrow, J. 1', 24910 

Palmer. William 24505 

Richmond. Charles W 24165, 25100, 25108 

25175, 25249, 25264, 25706 

Ridgway. Audubon 25822 

Ridgway, Robert 24766, 25688 

Russ, A.B 24805 

Seudder. N. P . 241113 

Shaw. N. C 24852 

' Somers. Dr. J. F 24042 

Stabler, Harold B 24971,25216,25301 

25391,25410,25483 

Stabler, James P 25120, 25034 

Tabler. J. H 25608 

Thomas, Frederick L 25490 

Treasury Department. U.S. Life-Sin 

tag Service 25340, 25640 

Tyson. James W 25648 

Warner, Ambrose 24833 

Weems, David G 25186 

Williams, I>r. ( feorge II 25057, 25450 

Williamson, II. W 24838 

Massachusetts: 

Hart on. George II -5105 

Baur, Dr. G 25817 



Accession 

number. 

M vssachusetts— Continued. 

Bates, Kimball <S Guild 25839 

Boas, Dr. Franz 25433 

Cioss. Prof. Charles R 25383 

Edwards, Vinal X 255:;i 

Elson, A. W.. & Co 25294 

Cattield, Thomas 25382 

Kochler, S. R -'5177 

Lloyd, Francis E 24914 

Murdoch, John 25716 

-Museum id' Comparative Zoology 

Cambridge, Mass 24857 

Museum ol Fine Arts, Boston, Mass 24047 

Muzzey, George E 24958 

Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass 25342 

Putnam. Prof. F. W -'4005 

Rice, Prof. William North 25210 

Ross, Waldo () 25745 

Rowe, C. II 25361,25835 

Revi lands, Walter • 255'-':; 

Saudbam, Henry 25018 

Scboenhof, Carl 24925 

Thomson. John II 24005 

Wilson, N. L 257::s 

\\ orcester Society of Antiquity 25169 

Michigan: 

Burt, M. W., jr 25406 

Cheshire, W. W 24835 

Golson, Edward S 25061, 25360 

Lepp, Peter 25583, 25664, 2577 1 

Lewis. Merritt 25309 

Narrta, Mrs. M. L 24021 

Northrup, Dr. G. J...M 25802 

Phillips, H. H 25855 

Smith, Harlan 1 25606 

Tucker. Mrs. L. M 25607 

Webster. George W ■ 24626 

Minnesota : 

Hoffman, Dr. W. J 24872 

Holzner. Frank X 25042 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U.S. A 24840, 25302 

Meeds, Prof. A . 1) 25292 

( (shorn, Prof. H. L 24556 

Smithsonian Institution. C. S. I'.u 

reau of Ethnology 24984 

Southwick & Critchley 24662 

Velie. Dr. J. W 24001 

White. A. W 25*492 

MISSISSIPPI: 

Chidsey, Charles E 24824 

[nterior Department. U.S. Geological 

Survey. 25725 

Marsh, W. A 24821 

Miller, Charles, jr 25711 

Porter. W. 1! 25002 

Missouri : 

Beckwith. Paul 24724 

Bird. J.C 255!i 

Fish Commission, I'. S 25311 

Harris. George E 24862,25636 

1 1 urter, Julius 24902, 25751, 25873 

[nterior Department. 1'. S.Gcological 

Sin \ ey 24530, 24930, 25024, 25171 

Logan, A. S 25360 



584 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1*92 



Accession 
number. 

M tssoURi — Continued. 

P;itton, W 24074 

Pickles. Julian 25239 

Sampson, F. A 24717 

Schraubstadter, Carl, jr 25567 

Wilson. N". L 25738 

Yale. Charles 24652 

Montana : 

Allen, C. M 24796 

Dahl, F. 25432 

Daniel, Dr. Z. T 25559, 258:14 

Evermann, Prof. 15. W 25327 

Fish Commission, V. S 25022,25434 

Hand, C. H 2 1707 

Hornbrook, R. L 24804 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Survey 25725. 25768 

Lettrick, E. F 24933 

Meeds, Prof. A. D 25292 

Phillips, Barnet 25767 

Powell, Ma.j. William H., U. S. A 25427 

Squyer, Homer 25557 

Tibbey, I? 25029 

Williams. K. S 24630, 24832 

Nebraska : 

Hay. Prof. Robert 24784. 24881 

Interior Department. F. S. Geological 

Survey 25143 

Shaw, E. M 24826 

Nevada : 

Agriculture, Department of 25006 

Crosby, F. W 25272 

Engel, Lewis 24548 

Mooney, James 25488 

Webb, Walter P 24990, 25036 

New Hampshire: 

Bayley. Prof. W. S 25366 

Farmer. A. M 25329 

Heald, F. E 24716 

Sharpies. H. P 24543 

New Jersey: 

Allen, Rev. Jonathan 25066 

Andre ws. W. J 25635 

Angell, <;. W..T 24675 

Beckers. A lexander 25295 

Biuney. W. G 25027 

Boyle, Mrs. Mary 25065 

Demcker, Robert 24859 

Edwards, Dr. A. M 25511 

Lidgerwood, Mrs. John H 25201 

McCreery, J. H 25354. 25376. 25543 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company 25337 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Roberts, S. L 25398 

Smith, U. C 25237 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Na- 
tional Museum 24903, 24912 

Townley, N. M., jr 25811 

Wilbur, Miss Charlotte D 25552 

Wilbur, Mrs. Matthias Denman 25551 

Wilson, Thomas 24891 

New Mexico: 

Blackburn, Edwin : 25085 

Clark, Miss May 24577 

Crosby, F. W 25272 



Accession 
number. 
New Mexico— Continued. 

Donaldson, Thomas 24602 

Dorsey, Mrs. "\V.P 24815 

Fleming, J. W 25308 

Hunt, Mrs. A. M 25064 

Keeney , Judge C. D 25512 

Liniigren, W 25622 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Payn, Elias J 25801 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Redding, E. L 25864 

Shuieldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A 25865 

Shnfeldt, R. W., jr 24620 

Smithsonian Institution. I". S. Na- 
tional M iiseum 252-26, 25290, 25385 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. E 24622, 25580 

Th waites, George. H 25393 

Townsend, Tyler 25792 

Williamson, H. W 24838 

New York : 

Angell, G.W. J 24667 

Anthony, E. & H. T., & Co 25577 

Avery, S. P 25795 

Barnes, E. A 25813 

Bendire, Capt. C. E., V. S. A 25705 

Benedict, Dr. A. L 25369 

Benjamin, Dr. Marcus 25852 

Benjamin, Park 25007 

Beyer, ( : 25378 

Bierstadt, E 24689 

Bowen, Dr. Clarence W 24551 

Bradner, Dr. W. B 25023 

Calleuder, W. N 25051 

Callender, Mrs. W. N 24967 

Calvert, Philip P 25609 

Chandler, Prof. Charles F 25533 

Chapin, E. H 21610 

Church, F.L 24770 

Cooke, O. F 24982 

Cornell University, Ithaca 25617 

Courier Lithographing Company, Buf- 
falo 25876 

1 »<■ Lauey, James M 24749 

Demcker, Robert 25758 

Dodge, Col. Richard 1 24845 

Eglestoh, Prof. Thomas 25156 

Engineering News, New York City. . 25353 

English, George L., & Co 24760 

Epstein, Justus 25602 

First Japanese Trading Company. 

New York City 25880 

Ferry, Mrs. 0. M 24555 

Foote, A. E 25620 

Harris, George H 25468 

Hart. William W ., & Co 24567, 24569 

Haskins Wood Vulcanizing Company, 

New York City 25040 

Henkels, S. V 25624 

Hinds, J. E 25649 

Hitchcook, Dr. T. S 25087 

Interior Department. V. S. Geological 

Survey 25219 

Japanese Trading Company, New 

York City 25235 

Jaquay, H. It 24982 



INDKX BY LOCALITIES. 



000 



Accession 
number. 
New York— Continued. 

Koegler, Franz 25746 

Lattin, Frank H 25388 

Lincoln, J. M -ran, 25651 

Martin. T. C 24901 

Meder, Ferd 25605, 25734 

Nasi), H.J ■-'5148 

Neale, G. C 25225 

New York Engraving an.'. Printing 

Company 24091 

Otis <fc Gorsline 25062 

Parmele, .Mrs. Theodore W 25558 

Putnam, Mrs. William 25015 

Ralph, Dr. William L 24898,25787 

Retsof Mining Company, New York 

City 24554 

Eke, Prof. William North 25210 

Rosenthal, Joseph 24589 

Rockenstyre, C. E 24696, 24701, 25039, 25146 

Scheffelin, S. B 24800 

Scheffelin, W. II., & Co 25775 

Seibert. F 25171 

Seer, A. S. Theatrical Printing Com- 
pany, New York City 25586 

Sheridan, Edmund J 24758 

Smillie, James D 25082 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M 25196 

Smith, James P., & Co 24900 

Snyder, Theodore 2.">747 

Sutherland, John 25305 

Takayanagi, T 25060 

Thayer, A. H 25020 

The "Crown" Typewriter Company, 

Brooklyn 25588 

TheE. S. Greeley Company, New York 

City 25412 

Tiphaine. Y. L 25788 

Walcott, C. D 2519J 

Ward's Natural Science Establish- 
ment, Rochester 24506. 24574. 24050, 24702 

24778, 24983, 25052, 25133 

Weaver &, Ihl 25389 

Webb, Walter F 25323 

Weems, David G 25856 

Williamsburg Scientific Society, 

Brooklyn 25500, 25590 

Wunderlich, II., & Co 25589 

Wyekoff, Seamans & Benedict 25587 

Zeller, Max 24688 

North Carolina : 

Bowman, D. A 2471:! 24790, 24997, 25285 

Brimley, IT. H 25703 

Brimley, H. H. <fc C S--24818, 25181, 25221, 25408 

Carter, James C 25265,25310 

Clay well. Robert T 24952 

Garner, R. L 2402.") 

Interior Department. TJ. S. Geologi- 
cal Survey 25260, 25724 

Jones, Dr. Levi 24996 

Laws, Franklin 25772 

Lindsey, H. A 24949 

McCarthy, Gerald 25S74 

McMillan, D. T 24582 

Morganton Land Improvement Com- 
pany 24904 



Accession 

number. 

North Carolina— Continued. 

Peterson, N 24705 

Quelch, Bert ram 24870 

Ray, Garrett D 24917. 24995 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M 25857 

Smithsonian Institution. I'. S. Na- 
tional Museum 24715. 24993. 25713 

Toms, Cant. M. C 24742 

Westell, S.J 24998 

Willcox. Joseph 25472 

Worth, S. (i .' 25080 

Feates, W. S 24999 

North Dakota: 

Collins, M iss Mary C 25050 

Miles, L 25062 

Simpson, A. M 24646 

OHIO: 

Adams, A. A * 24970 

Britton, L. H 24800 

Fisher, Dr. II. 1 25815 

G reegor, 1 25714 

Gurley, G. A 25098 

Johnston, F. .1 25633 

Kayser, William 24031 

Kline, William 25096 

Kost, Dr. J 24850 

McGinniss, William H 25056 

Meacham, Mrs. D. B 25091 

Miller, I. N 25095 

Montgomery, S. H 25375 

Morgan, W. J. & Co 25875 

Moorehead, Warren K 25003 

Neill, W. A 25099 

Oberlin College, Oberlin 24864 

Ormsbee, E . L 24922 

Pruden, Alfred 25113 

Russell, Charles H 25625 

Scifert, W 25343 

Smith, H. P 24732 

Wilkinson, E 25435 

Wilson, Thomas 25461 

Wolfe, M 25176, 25274 

Oklahoma Territory: 

Fisher, Dr. H. 1 25815 

Mooney, James 25488 

Smithsonian Institution. CT.S.Bureau 

of Ethnology 25718 

Voth, Rev. T. R 25145 

Oregon : 

Cooke, Dr. C. F 24825, 24830, 24981 

Cunniughan, B. L 25280 

Davjes, M. W 24972 

< iatschet, Dr. A. S 24702. 25071 

Interior Department. V. S. ( Geological 

Survey 25725 

Langdale, John W 25480 

Markson, Philip A 24735,25194 

Pelkey, S. A 25077 

Prill, Dr. A. G 21069. 24722 24737. 24921 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A 24536 

Warner, William 25014, 25699 

White. E. H 24809 

PENNSYLVANIA: 

Abel, J. C 249.i2, 25 197, 25255 

25314, 25349, 25466, 25722, 25740, 25796 



586 



RKPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Accession 
number. 

Pennsylvania— Continued. 

Allbert, Philip 24677 

Arnstrong, Edward 2,">798 

Bement, C 25395 

Booth, Mrs. .Tames ( '■ 25785 

Bretz, George M 2530J 

Britton, Dr. N. L 25313 

Capwell, V. L 25179 

Crosscnp & West 25480 

Culin.S 25809 

Depue, Robert 25945 

Eldon. Charles H 25303 

Fox. William J 2IS7::. 25364, 25769 

Grottenthalcr, V. & Co 25582 

Hoffman, I tarry A 25270 

Interior Department. U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey 24550, 24607, 25260, 25345 

Ives, Fred. E 25526, 2553 ! 

Ketterlinus Printing House, Philadel- 
phia 25579 

Lacoe, R. D 25426 

Lattin, Frank II 25807 

Laubach, Charles 25149, 25312 

Lippincott, J. B. & Co 25564 

Pennsylvania Railroad ( lonipany 25532 

Peters. Dr. John P 25808 

Phoenix Iron Winks. Phoenixville . . 25735 

Pilsbry, II. A. 25733 

Randall, E. A 25502 

Kir,-. Mrs. Marie E 24553 

Rowan, James 25884 

Snj del , Jaeoli 24750 

Standard HubCompany, Philadelphia 25423 

Sugden, Miss I'. 2582J 

Thompson, Edward S 25117 

Dike, Henry 24888 

Warren, Dr. B. II 25394 

Wieland, George R 24831,25106 

Willcox, J 24802 

Williamson. II. W 24838 

Wilson, Thomas 24891 

Witman Brothers 25443 

Zahniser, Miss KatherineG 24948 

Rhode Island: 

Itnril. ( rusl ine 1 

Lew is, ( reorge A 

South Carolina: 

Burns, Frank 24647 

Chatard, Dr.T.M 24552 

Fitzgerald, J. C 25484 

Carner, P. L 25124 

Kerrison, C.,,jr - 24813 

Lamar, T. G. & ( !o 

Loomis, Dr. L. M .24939, 25223 

Wagner Free Institute of Science, 

Philadelphia 

Williams, J. II 

Sou i ii Dakota : 

Ainley, John II 25396 

Caton, II. J 25411 

Daniel. Miss Irene S 

Daniel, Dr. '/.. T 24623,24653,24664 

24731,24756, 25ns:!, 25273, 25372, 25449 
Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Survey 25725 



25296 
25365 



25211 

25611 



25125 



. 25572 
24665 



Accession 

number. 
Si ii- rii Dakota— Continued. 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, 

Cambridge, Mass 25031 

Pettigrew, F . W 25513, 25721 

Shepard, JamesH 24759 

Ulke, S 25403 

Ulke, Titus 25115, 25374 

Tennessee: 

Armisteail. L. C 251SS 

Claiborne, J. H 24605 

Clouse, Henry -J5147 

Middleton, R. Morton 25755 

Park, J. T 24814 

Webster, George W 24626 

Williamson, H. W 24838 

Texas: 

Agriculture, Department of 24636,24897 

25006,25110 

Armstrong, F. B 24544, 25761 

Attwater, Prof. II. 1> 25441 

25591,25669,25782 

Bourke, Capt. John G-, U. S. A 24541 

- 24G71. 25282,25619 

Dart, Dr. Richard 24900 

Duroek, P. II 25390 

Eakins, L. ('. 24989 

Evermann, Prof. B. W . 25327 

Fish ( 'on. mission, TJ". S 25311 

Gurley, 11 . 11 25267 

Hill, R. T 24042 

Hornaday, W. T 24568 

Interior Department. D". S. Geological 

Survey 25725 

Lowe. Robert E 257!:; 

Me Daniel. W. L 25069 

Meatus. Dr. Edgar E., r.S. A 25578 

25823,25879 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart 2585:', 

Mitchell, J. I) 25542. 25s:;7 

Neville, William R 25004 

Pecos Red Sandstone Company 25:;51 

Penrose, P. A. F..jr 25214 

Poller, Rev, J. A., P. S. A 25663 

Ra ;sdale, G. H 25071 

Single^ , J. II 25418 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zo- 
ological Park 25126, 25128, 25131, 25692 

Starkweather, Mrs. H. R 24839 

Turpe, Albert 24710 

Von Streetnwit/, W.H 24725 

25059, 25206,25482 

Worthen, C. K 24792 

Utah : 

Agriculture, Departmenl of 25006 

Engel, Lewis 24548 

Forrester, Robert 2401 1, 25324 

Hubbard, Henry G 25000 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 
Survey 25725 

VERMONT: 

Walcott, ('. D 25207 

Virginia : 

Arrington, W. A 21714 

Bailey, H.B 24893 

Ileal. Kenneth F 25184 



INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 



.587 



Accession 

number. 

Virginia— Continued. 

Boarman, I>r. C. V 24578 

( lassell, Captain W. II 24954 

Chambers, J. A 25035 

Clore, Andrew J 24908, '-'.".014 

Coulbourn, W. R 25123 

Engle, Horace M 25728 

CariH-r, It. L 24700 

Allen, Ira It , 25739 

Griffin, John C, ,jr 24757 

Hensha-w, JL. W. 25322 

Howard, E. L 24785 

Matthews, It. E 25791 

Moffett, J. S 25240 

Morel. md. Walter 25742 

Morrison, Prof. James II 25457 

Mm ray, J. Ogden 25087, 25545 

Palmer, .1 osepli 2 1560, 21811 

Palmer, William 25184 

Pence, "W. C 24865, 2507(1 

Pollock, John J 24866, 25242 

Porter, Dr. J. H 1247111 

Rambo, M. Elmer 25058 

Richardson, W". D 25677 

Ridgway, Audubon 25822 

Robertson, W. 15 24820 

Scale, W. P 25695 

Shelton, J. C 24712. 24747 

Smithsonian Institution. I'. S. Bureau 

of Ethnology 25306 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. Na- 
tional Museum 21729, 24734, 25002 

Spindle, II. II 25030 

Sprinkel, J. W 25760 

Strother, W. A 25800 



Accession 

number. 
Virginia— Continued 

Webb, . I. S 25269 

White. Barry G 25076 

White, Miss 256(55 

Wolf, Dr. Joseph 1' 25(112 

Washington: 

Intram, Robert 25535 

Interior Department. 1 . S. < teological 

Survey 25727 

Johnson, Prof. <). B 24584 

Kim-aid, Trevor 24663, 24909, 25637 

Mitchell, George..... 24615, 24670 

Olnev. Mrs. Mary P 25594 

Whitton, William II. 2516] 

West Virginia: 

Elkins, Richard 25776 

Huddleston, John R 24823 

Pansdell. Harry 24935 

Surlier, T 24791 

Tate, Willie 15 24935 

Wisconsin: 

Hoffman, Dr. W.J 24872 

Hoy, Dr. /*. R 25566 

Perkins, F. S 25744 

Snyder. VV. E 257sl 

Stein S. L 25318 

Wyoming ; 

Fish Commission. U. S.... 25842. 25022, 25434 

Granier, Eniil 249:il 

Interior Department. 1. S. Geological 

Survey 25725 

Niswander, F.J 25357 

Rider, nisi.-.. 25779 

Zahn, Henry 24783 



WEST INDIES. 



Ames. Dr. Howard E., I". S. X 24892 

Balfour, Henry 24708 

Brown, R. W 21538, 24637, 2547s 

Chittenden, Dr. J. F 25537 

Cockerel!, Prof. T. D. A 25838 

Cunningham, C. W 24580 

Dufour, Dr. J. It. T 25698 

Everett. F. M 24648, 25328 

Fish Commission, V. S 25084 

25 54, 25 57, 25708 

Greegor, Isaiah 25529 

Kingston Exposition, St. Vincent Court 25008 



Kingston Exposition, Jamaica Court 25009 

Kingston Exposition, Bahama Court.... 25010 

Morgan, T. H 25373 

Sigua Iron Company, Santiago de Cuba.. 25803 
Smithsonian Institution, National Zoolog- 
ical I 'ark 25 134. 25571 

Wagner Free Institute of Science. Phila- 
delphia, Pa 24094 

Way i nan. G. Turner 25330 

Webb. Walter F 25166 

Wells, Roger, jr., C.S.N 25336 

Wooster, A.F 24529 



CENTRAL AMERICA. 



Bendire, Capt. Charles ]•;., V s. A 25017 

Brown, R. W 24657 

Fish Commission, D". S, 25415 

Michaud, l>r. Gustave 24874 



National Museum of Costa Pica 24644, 24924 

Phillips, W. II 21013 

Richmond, Charles W 25828 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Itah 24918 



: ! AMERICA. 



Ames, Dr. Howard K.. I'. S N 24892 

American Museum of Natural History. 

Xen- York City 25222 

Bartleman, R. M 248S0.25072 

Boehiner. ( teorge II 25668 



Brown, R. W 25519 

Herran, Hon. Thomas 21517 

Marks, M. L 251.5 i 

New York State Museum, Albany, N. V 

Palmer, William 25164 



588 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Accession 
number. 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Queredo, Samuel Alexander Lafone 25299 

Rathbun, Richard 25381 

Rikcr, C. B 24681 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy 24918 
Rush, Dr. AY. H., U. S. X 25839 



Accession 
number. 

Sawyer, Lieut. F. E., U. S. N 25340 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoo- 
logical Park 25141 

Tiffany & Co 25451 

White, Dr. C H., U. S. X 24619, 24624 



ASIA. 



Abbott, Dr. W. L 

Atkinson, Edward 

Beale, Hon. Truxton 

Calcutta Botanic Garden 

Carlyle, A. C 

Culin, Stewart 

Dall, William II 

Fillette, Lieut. T. G., V. S. X 

Fulton, Hugh 

Greegor, Isaiah 

Hitchcock, Romyn 25569, 

Jouy, P. L 24558, 

Kramer, William V 

Loomis, Rev. Henry 25379, 



2547H 
25765 
25881 
25563 
25122 
25539 
25241 
24739 
24097 
25159 
25715 
24877 
24661 
25831 



Lovett, Edward 25015 

Neumann, Dr. Julius 25266, 257»2 

Peters, Dr. John P 25104. 2581 »8 

Science College Museum, Imperial Uni- 

\ ersity, Tokio 24586 

Smithsonian Institution. I*. S. National 

Museum 25499 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoo- 
logical Park 25063 

State, Department of 24904, 24905, 25315,25310 

Stearns, Frederick 24017 

Waters, Z. D 25804 

Wildman, Hon. Rousevelle 24951,25602 



EUROPE. 



Babeock, A. L 25248 

Balfour, Henry 24708 

Beckwith, Paul 24834 

Boucard, A 25048 

Boyenval, E. & Ponsard & Co 25425 

Brace, Mrs. Charles L 25470 

Brady, Prof. George S 25283 

British Museum, London, England 25330 

Clark, James J 24883 

Cossniann, M 25442 

de Saussure, Prof. H , 25271 

de Struve, Mr. Charles 25447 

Eichhoff, Dr. William 25498 

Elkington & Co 24885 

Enmious, Lieut. George F., U. S. N 25560 

Emmons, Hamilton 25347 

Foote, A. E 25203 

Forrer, R 24690 

Forrester, Robert 2401 1 

Francis, Joseph 25281 

Geisler, Bruno 25869 

Goode, Dr. G. Brown 25819 25882 

Gram.N.C 24932 

Greger, A 24896 

Hamlin, Dr. A. C 24926 

Harber, Lieut. G. 3., U. S. X 25334 

Harris, George F 24771 

Icelandic. Natural History Society, Reyk- 
javik 24633 

Jouett, Admiral and Mrs. Jouett 25680 

Kunz, George F 25234 

Lovett, Edward 24603. 25015 

Luchs, Morris 24738 

Martin, Dr. D. S 247."..". 

Montandon, Prof. A. L 2-1579. 25244. 25520 

Murray, John 25825 



Moss, William 25332, 25387 

Museum of Natural History. Paris, France 24853 
Xational Museum of Anthropology, Flor- 
ence, Italy 24919 

Nehring, Prof. Dr. A 25510 

Noel, Paul 25209 

Norman, Rev. A . M •. . 25506 

Olivier, Ernest 25268 

Pennypacker. C. H 24787, 25453 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Pratt, John 25479 

Loyal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 

Stockholm, Sweden 25227 

Loyal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy 24918 

Schmid, Edward S 25078 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. \\\, U. S. A 24764 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum 25355 

Societe anonyme de Marcinelle and Couil- 

ht : 25424 

St reng, Prof. A 25789 

Tiffany & Co 25451 

Tornquist, Leon 24009 

Treasury Department. U. S. Revenue- 
Marine Service 25474 

Turner, Hon. R. W 24780,25681 

Waicott, CD 25218 

Watts, Blake, Beanie & Co 25527 

Weil Brothers 21599 

Willige, J. Louis 25584 

Wilson, Scott B 25369, 25638 

Wood, Miss E. M 25182,25810 

Wooster, A. F 25845 

Worth. R. X 24974. 25233 

Wyckot). Seamans & Benedict 24969 

Zoological Society of London 25570 



INDEX BY LOCALITIES. 



581) 



OCEANICA. 

Australia. 



Accession 
number. 

Agriculture. Department of 24941, '_'r>ll 1 

Australian M useum - 24597, 25661 

Bednall, W. T 25616 

British Museum, London, England 25151 

Cox, Dr. J. C 25843 

Denton, S. F 25352 

( ieisler. Bruno 25869 



Accession 
number. 

Haddon, Prof. A. C 24726 

Howell, E. E 24752 

Johnson, Prof. (). I? 24584 

Rodman, Dr James 25689 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, 

Italy 2491H 

Tristram, Rev. H . B 25307 



New Zealand. 

Auckland Museum 24957, Simpson, Charles T 25455 

Otago University Museum. Dunedin 25341 I Wallace Mrs: Catharine P L"J59!) 



Jennev, Victor A 



Fillette, Lieut. F. (}., U. S. N 

Sewall, Hon. Harold M 

Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 
Rochester, N. T 



Malaysia. 

25860 

Polynesia. 

"Wilson, Scotl B 25142 



24060 
21721 



Islands in the Pacific Ocean. 



Fish Commission. V. S 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, 
Italy 



24754 Stearns, Frederick 25836 

Tristram, Rev. H. B 25307 

24918 Webb, Hon. Alexander R 24782,25806 



INDEX B.-BY DEPARTMENTS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



DEPARTMENT I. 



Arts and Industries. 



Accession 
number. 

Adler, I>r. Cyrus 25878 

Agriculture, Department of 24531, 24532, 24533 

Andrews, W. 3 25635 

Anthony, E-&H.T., & Co 25577 

Atkinson, Edward 25765 

Avery, S. P 25795 

Bacon, Mrs. Oliver T 25646 

Bates, Kimball, & Guild 

Beckers, Alexander 25295 

Beckwith, Paul 24724, 24834 

Benjamin, Dr. Marcus 25852 

Benjamin, Park 25007 

Bierstadt, E 24689 

Bird, J. C 25598 

Boebmer, George H 25001, 251 78 

Booth, Mrs. James C 25785 

Eo'swell, Henry 25220 

Bowen, Dr. Clarence W 24551 

Boyenval, E., & Ponsard & Co 25425 

Brace, Mrs. Charles L 25476 

Bretz, GeorgeM 25304 

Callender, W. N 25051 

Callendar, Mrs. W. N 24907 

Chandler, Prof. Charles F 25533 

Chanute, 25399 

Clark, James J 24883 

Connor, Paul I) 25118 

( 'mirier Lithographing Company, Buffalo, 

X. V 25876 

Cox, Mrs. S.S 25475 

Cross, Prof. Charles E 253 83 

( Irosscup & West 25486 

Dall, William H 25317 

Elkington & Co 24885 

ElS( m, A. W. & Co 2529 ! 

Emmons, Hamilton 25347 

Engineering News, Xew York City 25353 

Epstein, Justus 25602 

Warren, Ewen, jr., & Co 25073 

Fiek, G. A 24733 

Fillette, Lieut. F. G., T. S. X 24660 

First Japanese Trading Company, New 

York 25881 > 

Fisher, Dr. H.I 25815 

Francis, Joseph • 2528 1 

Gaffield, Thomas 25382 

(lamer, E. L 24700 

Good, Rev. A.C - 25G54 



\< cession 

number. 

Goode, Dr. G. Brown 25676,25685,25848 

Gram, N C 24932 

Grottenthaler, V.. & Co 25582 

Gurley, O. A 25098 

Hall; B. H 24966 

Hart, George B 24619 

Haskins Wood Yulcaniziiig Company, 

New York Citj 24590 

Heaton, Charles M 25119 

Hemenway, Airs. Mary 25G31 

Hendley, John 24886 

Hilgard, Mrs. J: E '. 25172 

Hinds, J. E 25649 

Hitchcock, Pomyn 25569 

Hoffman, Hairy A 25270 

Hood , John H 24884 

Hurd, Gustine L 25296 

I \ is, Fred E 25526, 25534 

James. Joseph F 25G21 

Japanese Trading Company, New York-. 25235 

Jenney, Yictor A 25860 

Johnston, MissF. B 25319 

I it. Admiral and Mrs. Jouett 25680 

Kelly. John F 24017 

Kerrison. C.,jr... 24813 

Ketterlinus Printing House, Philadelphia, 

Pa 25579 

Kingston Exposition. St. Vincent Court. 25008 

Kingston Exposition, Jamaica Court-... 25 109 

Kline William 25096 

Koegler, Franz 25746 

Koehler, S. R -5177 

Kramer. William V 24661 

Kiinz, George F 25234 

Lee, Goorge 24980 

Lee, W.G 24640 

Lidgerw 1, Mrs. John II 25201 

Linton, W.J 25259 

Lippincott, J. I'... & Co 255G4 

McCrecry, J. II 25376,25543 

Martin. T. C 2490] 

Maynard, George C 24944,25097, 25413 

Meder, Ferd 25605, 25734 

Meigs, Gen. M. C, U.S. A 25386,25469 

M ei calf, II. I) 25258 

Milhr, I.N 25095 

Miller, ('apt. James M .- 25672 

Morgan, AY. J.. & Co : . ^5S75 

59] 



592 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



DEPARTMENT I— ( lontinued. 
Arts and Industries— Continued. 



Accession 

number. 

Murdoch, J 25333 

Museum of Fine Arts. Boston, Mass 241147 

Muzzey, George E 24958 

Nasli, B.J 25148 

Neill, W. A 25099 

Neumann, Dr. Julias 25266 

New York Engraving atid Printing Com- 
pany 24091 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Parmele, Mrs. Theodore W 25558 

Parsons, Miss Katherine 25600 

Payne, Robert II 25093 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company 25337, 25532 

Peterson, N 24765 

Phrenix Iron Works, Puoenixville, Pa 25735 

Pratt, John 25479 

Regular Army and Navy Union, United 

States of America 25116 

Rockenstyro, C. E 24096. 2470!, 25039, 25146 

Roberts, S. L 25398 

Rogers, Sydney II 256< 4 

Rose, Waldo O 25745 

Rowlands, Walter 25528 

Saudham, Henry - 25018 

Sehieffelin, "W.H., & Co 25775 

Sclioenhof, Carl 24925 

Schraubstadter, Carl, jr 25567 

Seer, A, S., Theatrical Printing Company, 

New York City 25586 

Seibert, S. R 25603 

Sewall. Hon. Harold M 24721 

Sniillie. James D 25082 

Smith, James P., & Co 24900 

Smithsonian Institution. TJ. S. National 
Museum 25355, 25499, 25771, 25819, 25882 



Accession 
number. 

Snyder, Theo 25747 

Societe anonymede Marcinelle and Couil- 

ht 25424 

Standard Hub Company, Philadelphia, 

Pa - 25430 

State, Department of 249C4, 24905. 25315, 25316 

Stein, S. L 25318 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C 25604 

Takayanagi, T 25060 

The Crown Typewiiter Company, Brook- 
lyn, N. Y 25588 

The E. S. Greeley Company, New York 

City 25412 

The Singer Manufacl uring Company, New 

York City 24666 

Turner, Mat he w 25032 

Turner. It. W 25681 

Webb. Hon. Alexander 25806 

Weems, David G 25186, 25H56 

Weil Brothers 24599 

Wilbur, Miss Charlotte D 25552 

Wilbur. Mrs. Matthias I) 25551 

Wildman, Hon. Rounsevelle 24951, 25862 

Willige. J. Louis 25584 

Wolte, M 25176, 25274 

Wooster, A. F 24529. 25485 

Worcester Society of Antiquity, Worces- 
ter, Mass 25169 

Wunderlich, H., & Co 25589 

Wyckoff. Scamans & Benedict 24590, 24080 

24969. 25581 
Zeller, Max 24688 



DEPARTMENT II. 



(A» Ethnology. 



Abbott, Dr. W.L 25470 

Adler, Dr. Cyrus 24683, 25565, 25878 

Andrews, A. H., & Co 25348 

Beale, Hon. Truxtou 25881 

Burger, Peter 24923, 25107 

Bartleman, R. M 24880, 25072 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., TJ. S. A 25827 

Boas, Dr. Franz 25433 

Bourke, Dr. John G., U. S. A 24541, 24899 

25103,25152. 25282 

British Museum, Loudon, England 25151 

Brown.A.H 24746 

Bryant, Henry G 25288 

Camp, J. H 25561 

Cheshire, W.W 24835 

Clark, Miss May 24577 

Crissey, Dr. Sardis L 25078 

Culm, Stewart 25539, 25809 

Dall, William H 25241 

Daniel, Dr. Z. T. . . .25083, 25273, 25372. 25449, 25559 
de Struve, Mr. Charles : 25447 



Dodge, Mrs. Charles Jr 25088 

Emmons, Lieut. George F., U. S. N 25560 

Engel, Lewis 24548 

Fillette. Lieut. T. G., IT. S. N 24739 

Fish < 'nmmission, TJ. S 25162 

( lat schet. Dr. A. S 24702, 25071 

Grander, Emil 24931 

Grant-Bey, Dr. James 25741 

Green, Bernard R 25727 

Greger, A 24890 

Greegor. Isaiah 25714 

Gurley, R. R 25397 

Haddon, Prof. A. C 24726 

Hall, I. T. H - 25448 

Hanuka, Piukas 24953 

Harbor, Lieut, (i. B., U.S. N : 25334 

Harris, George H - 25468 

Henieii way, Mrs. Mary 25631 

Heuienway Southwestern Archaeological 

Expedition, Boston, Mass 25338 

Hitchcock, Dr. T. S...... ............... 25187 



INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 



593 



DEPARTMENT [^Continued. 
(A) Ethnology— < !ontinued: 



Accesslon 
Dumber. 

Hoffman Dr. W. J 24872 

Icelandic Natural History Society, Reyk- 
javik, Iceland 24633 

Ingle, Edward 25163 

Interior Department. V. S. Geologioal 

Survey 25256 

Jenny, Victor 25860 

Kingston Exposition, St. Vincent Court. 25008 

Lovett, Edward 24603, 25615 

Luchs, Leopold 25362 

Lucius, Morris 24738 

McCullougli, Mrs..C. L 25489 

Hazen, Mrs. Mildred McLean 25748 

McLaren, Charles 24873 

McLaren. William A 25571 

Meigs, General M. C , U.S. A 24827 

Moller, Theodore , 24994 

Mooney, James , , 25488 

Murdoch, John 25515, 25645 

Neumann, Dr. Julius 25712 

Nuttall, Mrs. Zelia 24794 

Ormsbee, E. L 24922 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Peters, Dr. John P 25104, 25808 

Pfordte, ( )tlo F 25278 

Phillips, Barnett 25767 



Access inn 
number. 

Picber, Miss Anna 25019 

Powell, Maj. William 11.. V. S. A 25427 

Richmond, Charles W 26828 

Rogers, Thomas 25041 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy 24918 

Russell, I. C 25293 

Scidmore, Miss E. R 25236 

Shaw, N. C 24852 

Spicer, ('apt. John <). 24583 

Smithsonian Institution. I". S. Bureau of 

Ethnology 24984, 25718 

Smithsonian Institution. V. S. National 

Museum 25771, 25819 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. E 24022,25580 

Turner, J. H 25562 

Turner, Hon 24786 

Voth, Rev. T. R 25145 

Wallingford, W. W 24828' 

Waters, Z. D 25801 

TVehh, Hon. Alexander R 24782, 25806 

West, Gerald M 25538 

Wildman, Hon. Rounsevelle 24951, 25862 

Woodhull, Miss W 25766 

Woodruff, Dr. Charles E., U. S. A 25043, 25158 

Worth, S. G 25086 



(B) Aboriginal American Pottery. 



Bourke, Capt, John G., U. S. A 24671 

Golson, Edward S 25061 

Porter, W. B 25185 



Queredo, Samuel Alexander Lafone 25299 

Weston, Arthur H 24709 



DEPARTMENT III 



Prehistoric 

Abel, J. C 24992, 25197, 25255, 25314 

25349. 25466,25722. 25740, 2579C 

Allbert, Philip 24677 

Allen, Rev. Jonathan 25066 

Armistead, L. C 25188 

Balfour, Henry 24708 

Belding, L 25041 

Benedict, Dr. A. L 25369 

Bos-well, J. H 24591 

Bowman, D. A 24549 

Britton, Dr. N. L 25313 

Bryan, O. N 24837 

Bryant, Henry G 25288 

Burns, Frank 24647, 2536 ! 

Burns, W. R 24592. 25415 

Carlyle, A. C 25122 

Dahl, F. 25432 

Daniel, Miss Irene S 24665 

Daniel. Dr. Z. T. .. .24653, 24664, 21731, 24756, 25834 

Depue, Robert 24945 

Dorsey, Mrs. W. P 24815 

Everett, F. M 24648 

Farmer, A. M 25329 

Fleming, J. W 25308 

Forrer, R 24630 

Frost, L. L 25252 

H, Mis. 114, pt. 2 38 



Anthropology. 

Golson, S. Edward 

Griffin, John C, jr 

Hemeiiway, Mrs. Mary 

Hendricks. G. D 

Heukels, S. V 

Herran, Hon. Thomas 

Hill, Dr. W.Scott 

Holmes. W. H 

Hunt, Mrs. A. M 

Johnston, F. J 

Johns, Dr. Levi 

Lambuth.J.W 

Langdale, J. W 

Lattin. Frank H 

La u bach, Charles 

Lemon, Dr. J. H 

Lewis, Merri 1 1 

Logan, A . S 

Lovett, Edward 

Marks. M. L 

Meacham, Mrs. 1>. B 

McMillan, D.T 

Miller, Charles, jr 

Montgomery, S. H 

Morganton Land Improvement Com; any 
Moorchcad, Warren K 



25149, 



25360 
24757 
25631 
25462 
25021 
24547 
25858 
25224 
25064 
25033 
24996 
25536 
25452 
25807 
25il2 
25514 
25309 
2535D 
25615 
25150 
25091 
24582 
2571 
25375 
24964 
25003 



594 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



DEPARTMENT III— Continued. 
Prehistoric Anthropology— Continued. 



Accession 
number. 

Morrow, J. B 24010 

M urray, J. < >gden 25087, 25545 

National .Museum of Anthropology, Flor- 

ence, Italy 24919 

Neal, Dr. James C 24056 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Perkins, F. S - 25744 

Pet t igrew, F. TV 25721 

Porter, Dr. J. H 24719 

Pruden, Alfred 25113 

I'ul nam. Prof. F. W 24695 

Rice, Mrs. Marie E 24553 

Richmond, Charles AT 25828 

Rowan, James 25884 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italy 24918 

Russell, Charles H 25625 

Seifert, W 25343 

Selby, Willie 25144 



Accession 
number. 

Shaw, James C 24718 

Sheridan, Edmund J 24058 

Smith, H. P 24732 

Smithsonian Institution. TJ. S. Bureau of 

Ethnology 25306 

Smithsonian Institution. TJ. S. National 

Museum 25250 

Steiner, Dr. R 25321 

Stephenson, A 25720 

Thomas, William S 2507") 

Thomson, John 11 24905 

Thompson, Edward S 25117 

Vaden, L.. & Co 25764 

Warner, Ambrose 24833 

Webb. De Witt 25232 

White. A. W 25492 

Williamson. H. W 24838 

Wilson. Thomas 24891.25461 



DEPARTMENT IV. 



Mammals. 



Abbott, Dr. W. L 25470 

Agriculture, Department of 25139 

Allen. George A 25046 

Australian Museum. Sydney, Xejv South 

Wales 24597 

Baker, A. B 24093. 24978. 25132 

Barber, F. A 2 1563 

Boehmer, George H 25668 

Brimley, H. H. & C. S 25181, 25221 

Bryant, Henry G 25288 

Cassell, Capt. W. H 24954 

Chanler, William Astor 24907 

Clung, John 25297 

Clay. Col. Cecil 25140 

Dent i m, Sherman F 24557 

Dunes, Prof. A 24727 

Elkins, Richard 25776 

Farnham, A. B... 24781 

Fisli Commission, 1 *. S 25154, 25708 

Geisler, Bruno 25869 

Hart. William W.. & Co 21567.24560 

Harvey, Rev. M 25783 

Hemphill, Henry 25011 

Hitchcock, R 25715 

Holzner, Frank X 25042 

Hornaday, W. T 24508 

Hoy, Dr. P. R 25566 

Jacobs Brothers 25284 

Jouy, P. L . .'. 24558 

Mai T'arlane, R 24001 

Marshall. ( leorgts 24682, 2479:!. 25618 

Marshall, Henry 24564, 24576 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U.S. A 25392,25578 

Morrison, Prof. J. II 25457 

Museum of Natural History, Paris. Fiance 24853 

Nelson, E. W 24863,25180 

Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio 25864 

Palmer, Joseph 2450 J. J481 1 



Palmer William 24565. 25127, 25130, 25184 

Parker. A . H 25464 

Payne. Samuel 25682 

Phillips, W. H 24613 

Pope, II 25044 

Ralph, Dr. William L 24575 

Rich, J. G 25289 

Ridgway, R 24562 

Roberts, W. F 24774 

Schenck, Charles D : 25872 

Schmid, Edward S 2587 1 

Smith, William G 25818 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum 24572. 24686, 25257 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoo- 
logical Park 24879, 25126, 25128, 25129 

25131,25134,25135,25130 
25138, 25141,25209.25110 

Southwick & Critchley 24002 

Stejneger, Dr. I. 24561 

Stormcnt, Edgar L 25101 

Tabler, J. H 25608 

Toy liseml, (.'. H 25503 

Traill, W. E 24705 

Treasury Department. l'.S. Revenue Ma- 
rine Service 25474 

Turner, H. W 24812 

Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 
Rochester, N. Y ..24559,24566,24574,24650,25133 

Warner, William J 25014 

Warren, Dr. B. H 25394 

Webb, J. S 25629 

Wells, Roger, jr., V. S. N 25336 

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., V. S. A 25401 

Winston, B. C 25729 

Wolf, Dr. Joseph P 25612 

Wooster, A. F 24911 

Worthen, C. K. 24588, 24 678, 24079, 24792, 24875, 25137 
Zoological Society of London .. 25576 



INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 



595 



DEPARTMENT V 



(A) Birds 



Accession 
number. 

Abbott, Dr. W. L 25470 

Abert, Dr. Charles 24659, 25657 

American Museum of Natural History. 

New York ( 'it y 25222 

Ames. Dr. Howard E., U. S. N 24892 

Anderson, J. V 25704 

Armstrong, F. B 24544 

Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zea- 
land '24957 

Australian Museum. Sydney, Nov South 

TV ales 24597 

A very. Dr. William C 25701 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton E 25495 

Beck . Rollo II 24635, 25477 

Belding, L 24846,25438,25660 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., t". S. A 25705 

Benson, Lieut. Harry C., 1". S. A 25790 

Boucard, A 25048 

Brett, Walter 2474'.; 

Brimley. H. H 25703 

Brimley, H. H. & C. 3 24818, 25408 

Bryan, O.N 24837 

Burdine, W. T 25730 

Carmick, Master Louis 24847 

Carter. James C 25265 25310, 25437 

Cooke, Dr. C. T 2 1825 

Cory. C. B 2502.-) 

Cunningham, 15. L 25280 

Denton. Sherman F 25352 

Dolour. Dr 25168 

Dut'our, Dr. J. H. T 25698 

Duges, Prof. A 24727,25736 

Edwards, Vinal N 25531 

Eldon, Charles H 25303 

Fish Commission, U. S 25154. 25157, 25708 

Garner, Jesse 25215 

Geisler, Bruno 25869 

Herell, F.J 24648 

Hitchcock, Frank H 25380,25481,25403 

25530,25540,25544 

Holzner, Frank X 25042 

Jouy, P. L 24877 

Leizear, H. H 25505 

Leizear, W. G. W 25280 

Lepp, Peter 25583, 25001. 25774 

Lewis, George A 25365 

Littlejohn, Chase 25281, 257:;i 

Loomis, Leverett M 25223. 25611 

Lord, A. W 25286, 25 109, 25553, 25784 

MacFarlane 25016 

Marion, Thomas 24768 

Marshall, ( leorge 25707 

Marshall, Henry 25331, 25497, 25679 



M earns. Dr. Edgar A., U. S. A 



Accession 

number. 
...25392,25578 

25823. 25879 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart 25853 

Moreom, G. Frean 24986 

Miles, L 25002 

Murdoch, John 25716 

Museum of Natural History, Paris. France . 25691 

National Museum of Costa Rica 24644, 24924 

Norton, Arthur H 25403 

Palmer, William 25164 

Park, J. T •. 24814 

Parker, A. H 25404 

Pleas, C. E 25 ! 17. 2577s 

Pollock, John J 24860, 25242 

Prill, Dr. A. G 24722.24737 

Ragsdale, G. H 25671 

Ralph, Dr. William L 24851,24898,25786 

Richmond, Charles W 24730, 24773, 25067, 25100 

25108, 25105, 25175. 2524'.), 25264, 25700, 25828 

Ridgway, R 24744. 24700. 24868, 25688 

Riker, C. B 2468 1 

Robinette, Frank 24698, 24870 

Rodman, Dr. James 25689 

Rosenthal, Joseph 24589 

Scheffelin, S. B., 24806 

Sckmid, Edward S . -24987, 25279, 25302, 25658, 25678 
2569;). 25094. 25097, 25737, 25794 
Science College Museum, Imperial Uni- 
versity, Tokio 24586 

Seale, W. P 25695 

Shufeldt, Percy W 24587 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., U. S. A 25865 

Shufeldt, R. W., jr 24020 

Smith, William G 25400 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum .24528, 24537, 24643 25-57.25702 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoolog- 
ical Park 21829. 2 1920, 25692, 25693, 25096 

Southwick & ( 'ritchley 24910 

Stabler, Harold 24971, 25216, 25301 

25391,25410,25483 

Stabler, James P 25120 

Stejneger, Dr.L 24807 

Thomas, Frederick L 2549, i 

Traill, W. E 24705 

Tristram, Rev. II. B 25307 

Warner, William 25699 

Wayne, Arthur T 25829 

White. Harry (J 25076 

Williams, R. S 24832 

Wilson. Scott B 25142 

Wvard. Mrs 25863 



(B) I!irds' Eggs. 



Agriculture, Department of 25006 

Armstrong, F. B 25701 

Attu ater, Prof. H. P 2541 1. 25591. 25009. 25782 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U.S. A 25017 

Benson, Lieut. Harry C, TT. S. A 25750. -5791) 

| 'coke. Dr. Clinton T 24830, 24981 



Everett, Frank 25 328 

Fish ( 'ommission. 1'. S 25154, 2J 157 

Fowler, Fred 25720 

.lack son. Thomas II ... 25045 

Lattin, Frank II 25388 

Littlejohn, Chase 25281,25518,25592,25731 



596 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



Loomis, Dr. L. M 

MacFarlane, R 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A.. V. S. A 



DEPARTMENT V— Continued. 
(B) Birds' Eggs — Continued. 



Aeci-ssion 
nunibei . 

24939 

25016 

...25392,25823 
25879 

Mitch. 11. George * 2461.".. 2 1670 

Mitchell, Guy E 25167 

Pattee, T. B 25(584,25757 

Phillips, U. H 25855 

Putter, W. B 25092 



Accession 
number. 

Prill, Dr. A. G 24669, 24921 

Ralph, Dr. William L 25787 

Rohinette, Frank 24854, 24861 

Snufeldt. Dr. R.W..U. S: A 25865 

Smith, R. H.Kirhy 25686 

Smith. William G 25407 

Shurber, T 24701 

Webb, Walter F 24990, 25036, 25166, 25323 

Williams, R. S 24630 



DEPARTMENT VI. 

Reptiles. 



Ames. Dr. Howard E., U. S. N 24892 

Beal, Kenneth F 2577:;. 2585 1 

Boyne, R 25454 

Britton, L. H 24860 

Brown, Herbert 24629, 24709. 24856, 24962. 25487 

Brown, R. W 25021 

Bryant, C. M 25429 

( Ihurch, F. L 2477U 

Dart. Dr. Richard 24906 

Davis. Britton 2487s 

Dunes, Prof. A 24727 

Figgins, J. D 24800, 24955 

Fish Commission. V. S. . . .25022, 25157, 25311, 25445 

Fitzgerald, J. C 25484 

Hale, Dr. E. M 25595 

Harris, George E 24862, 25636 

Hay, Dr. O. P 24687, 24705. 25652 

Henderson, J. C.,jr 25300 

Henshaw, H. W 25322 

Hitchcock, Frank H 25574 

Hopkins, C.L 25626 

Hubbard, Henry G 25666 

Huddleston, John R 2 1823 

Hurter, Julius 24902. 25751 25875 

Jenks, Prof. J. AY. P 25812 

Jnuy. P. L 24877 

Leonbardt. Peter 24956, 25596 

Liston, Rev. R. T 24608 

Loomis. Rev. Henry 25379 

McCoy, Herbert N 24843 

McGregor, R. C 25243 

Marsh, George B 24651 



Marshall, ( leorge 

Middleton, R. Morton 

Mearns. Dr. Edgar A.. V. S. A 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass 

Newport. Miss Eddie 

Owsley, Dr. W. T 

Parker, A. H 25461. 

Pence, W.C 

Qnives. < leorge A 

Richmond, Charles W 24745, 

Sampson. F.A 

Scovi'.le, J . T 

Scudder, N. P 24013. 

Shaw. E.M 

Simpson, Charles T 

Smith, Dr. Hugb M 25196, 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 
Museum 21528,24745, 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zoo- 
logical Park 

Stearns, Dr.R. E. C ' - 

Storiucnt. Edgar L 25101, 

Test, Frederick C 24844, 

Thayer, A. II 

Ulke, Titus 

Wallace. W.O 

Wells. Roger, jr., U. S. N 

Wilcox. Dr. Timothy E.. U. S. A 25401. 

Wool man. A. J 

Yeoman, W. H 



DEPARTMENT VII. 



Fishes. 



Ames. Dr. Howard E., V. S. N 24802 

Ami, Henry M 25440 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H 25416 

Bartholomew & Co 25405 

Bragg, L. C 24728. 25173 

Chittenden, Dr. J. F 25537 

Duges, Prof. A 24727 

Fish Commission, 1*. S 25121, 25434 

Forest anil Stream Publishing Company, 

New York City . : 25170 

Garner, R. L 24625 i Morelaud, Walter ,,...-- 25742 



Geological Survey of Canada.. 

Green, Ashdown :. 

Henderson, J. C. ,jr 

Henshaw. II. W 

Eerrera, Prof. A. L 

Javins, F. II 

Javins & Co 

Johnson. S. I? 

Loomis Rev. Henry 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A.. U. S. A . 



25667 
25755 
25823 

25031 
2-1894 
24821 
256^2 
24865 
25053 
25828 
24717 
25859 
25573 
24826 
25300 
25857 

25257 

25371 
25507 
25281 
25753 
25020 
25115 
25656 
25336 
25653 
25859 
25068 



25326 

24711 
25300 

25322 

24763 

25367 
25710 
24704 
25170 
25302 
25794 



INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 



597 



DEPARTMENT 711— Continued. 
Fishes Continued. 



Accession 
number. 
Museum o!' Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass 24857, 25687 

Richmond, ( Iharles W 25828 

Ridgway. Audubon 25S22 

Sampson, F. A 24865 

Simpson, Charles T . . . . 25300 

Smith. Harlan I 25696 

Smithsonian Institution. l\ S. National 
Museum 24585, 24686 



Accession 
Bomber. 

Sutherland, John .-.- 29305 

Tayl< ir, Douglas 25770 

Thompson, H. P 24684 

Tiphaine, V. L 25788 

Treasury Department. U. S. Lite-Saving 

Service 25640 

Weaver & Ihl .-. 25389 

Wells, Roger, .jr.. U.S.N 25:;::t; 

Wilcox-. Dr. Timothy E., U. S. A 25401 



DEPARTMENT VIII. 
Vertebrate Fossils. 



Agriculture, Department of 25628 

British Museum, London, England 25330 

Charlton, T 25054 

Colburu, Dr. (i. F 25613 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 
Survey 24627, 25143 



Kost . Dr. J 24763 

Lincoln, J. M 25651 

Pettigrew, F. W 25513 

Ramsburg, C. S 24692 

Stmfeldt, Dr. R. W.. D.S.A 24764 

Whitton, William R 25161 



DEPARTMENT IX. 



MOLLLtSKS. 



Agee, N. A - 

Agricull urc. Department of ..... . 25452, 

Ancey, C. F .25320, 25465, 

Arnheiin, Julius 24539, 

Binney, W. G .................. 24596, 

Boyle, Mrs. Maty..... 

Brown, R. W. ..... . .24534, 24538, 24598. 24637, 

Cockerell, Prof. T. D. A 

Cooke, Miss J. N , 

Cossmann, M ■ 

Cox, Dr. J. C 

Dall, William H 24535, 

Duges, Prof. A 

Ferriss, James H 

Fish Commission, U. S '. . ... 

Fulton, Hugh 

Giddings, Miss Bertha S 

( rteegor, Isaiah 25159, 

Gurley, It. R 

Hanskc, E. A 

Harris, George F 

Henderson, J. < '..jr. ..... 

Jenny, Victor A 

Johnson, L. C 

Kost, Dr. J 

Lemon, Dr. J. H 

Loomis, Rev. Henry 

McDaniel, W. L 

Marsh, W. A 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A ., V. S. A 

Mitchell, J. D 25542, 

Mi inks. Miss S. P 

Moss, William 25332, 

Ulney, Mrs. .Mars P 



25208 

24636 
25556 
25847 
25027 
25065 
25478 
25838 
25842 
25442 
25843 
25846 
24727 
24632 
2544.". 
24697 
24858 
2r,T 14 
25267 
25938 
24771 
25300 
25860 
24991 
24850 
25514 
25:;7!> 
25069 
24841 
24840 
25837 
25844 
25387 
25594 



Orcutt, C. R 

i )s I m irn, Prof. H. L 

Palmer, Edward 

Parker, A. H 

Pilsbry, H. A 

Ragsdale, G. H 

Richmond, Charles W 

Ross, Mrs George P 

Push, Dr. W. H.. V. S. N 

Sanford, O. N 

Sebert, W. F 

Shufeldt. Dr. R. W.. U.S. A 

Simpson, Charles T , 

Singley, J. H 

Smith, C. C 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum 24686. 

Somers, Dr. J. F 

Stearns, Frederick 24617. 24961 1, 

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C 

Taylor, Rev. C. W 

Tollin, ( )scar 

Treasury Department. V. S. Life-Saving. 

Service 

Turton, Capt. W. H., R. E 

Ulke, S 

Vaughan, T. Wayland.. . .24848, 25102, 25160. 

Velie, Dr. J. W 

Wagner Free Institute of Science. Phila- 
delphia, Pa 24004. 

Webster, George W 

White, E. H 

Wildman, Rounsevelle 

Willeox, Joseph 



25840 
24556 
24600 
25404 
25733 
24740 
25828 
25521 
25839 
25845 
25171 
24536 
25300 
25418 

252;; 

25713 
24942 
25836 
25481 
25033 
25832 

25640 
25501 
25403 
25473 
24961 

25522 
24626 
24869 
25862 
25472 



598 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892. 



DEPARTMENT X. 

Insects. 



Accession 
number. 

Abbott, W. H 24672 

Adams, A. A 24970 

Adams, Mrs. Sarah M 25805 

Agriculture, Department of 24628,24816 

24889, 24890. 24897. 24940, 24941. 24950 
25005, 25110. 25111,25356, 25400, 25554 

Aldrich, J. M 25358 

Allen, George A -. 251146, 25402 

Ames. Dr. Howard, E., IT. S. X 24892 

Angell, G.W.J 24667 

Armstrong, Edward 25798 

Auckland Museum, New Zealand 24957 

Babcock, A. L 25248 

Bednall, W. T 25616 

Bailey, H. B 24893 

Hcyer, G 25378 

Boarman, Dr. C. V 24578 

Bowditeh. F. C 25593 

Bradner, Dr. AY. B 25023 

Brown, R. W 24657, 24707. 24963, 25519, 25793 

Brunei-. Prof. L 24976 

Burt, M. AW, jr 2.34O0 

• 'alvert, Philip 25609 

Camp. J. II L'.V.n4 

Chids.ey , Charles E 24824 

Clore, Andrew J 24908. 251 1 1 4 

Collett, T. R 2 1968 

Coulbourn, W. R jr. 123 

Crevecoeur, F. F 25028 

Daniel, Dr. Z. T , ... 24623 

Davidson, A 25246 

Davies, M. AV 21972 

lie Saussure, Prof. H 25271 

Dietz, Ottomar 25491 

Dodge, Col. Richard I.. U.S. A 24*4.3 

Duges, Prof. A 24727. 25780 

Eaton, Miss Lucy C 25732 

Eichhoti, Dr. William 2549s 

Everniann, Prof. B. W 25327 

Fagau, Thomas C : 23752 

Ferguson. William T 24979 

Fish < 'miiinission, U. S 25157 

Fox. William J 24873, 25:;04. 23709 

( iiddings, Charles F 25O00 

II igday ,'H. M 2487i 

Hodge, II. G 25799 

Interior Department. 1'. S. Geological 

Survey 24593 

Intram, Robert 25535 

■Jinks. Prof. J. W. P 25812 

Johnson, Judge L. C ' 25877 



Accession 
number. 

Kayser, William 24631 

Kincaid, Trevor 24663, 24909, 2.36:S7 

List i. n, Rev. R. T 24616 

Loom is, Rev. Henry 25379, 258:!1 

Love, Robert E 25743 

Lowe. Braxton 1! 25245 

Lowe, Camillo 24822 

Lowe, Dr. James H 2472 ; 

Lowenstein, William 23012 

Matthews, R. E 25791 

Meai -ns. Dr. Edgar A., TJ. S. A 25578 

Menefee, Speed S 24730 

Miehaud, Dr. Gustave 24874 

Montandon, Prof. A. L 24579, 25244, 25520 

Neville, William It 25004 

N is wander, F. J 25357 

Noel, Paul 25269 

Olivier, Ernest 25268 

Barker, A. H 25464 

Patrick, Isaac 24915 

Pence, W. C 24865, 2.3070 

Fond, Lieut. Charles E., TJ. S. X 25610 

Putnam, Airs. William 25015 

Quelch, Bertram 2487n 

Richmond, Charles W. 25828 

Rieksecker, L. E 24668 

Richardson, W. D 25677 

Rider, His 1 25779 

Rowe, C. H 25361, 25575, 25835 

Smith, E. Kirby 24775 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum 24686, 25013 

Snyder. AV. E 25781 

Sprinkel, J. W 2.3700 

Stanley, II. M 24.39.3 

Starkweather. Mrs. H. R 24839 

State, Department of 25601 

Steuart, C. A 247U3 

Sugden, Miss E 25824 

Thompson, John 24634 

Townsend, Tyler 25792 

TJlke, Henry 2 1888, 2511 2 

Varce, Clarence and Samuel E 25037 

Wallace, Airs. Catharine B 25599 

Wayman. G. Turner 25335 

White, Dr. C. II., IT. S. X 21024 

White, Miss 25665 

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy E., TJ. S. A 25401 

Wildmann, Rounsevelle 25802 

Zahniser, Miss Katherine G 24948 



DEPARTMENT XL 

Marine I nvertehratks. 



Ames, Dr. Howard E., TJ. S. N...~. 24892 

Australian Museum, Sydney, New South 

Wales 24597. 25661 

Beal, Kenneth F 25723 

Benedict, James E 25074 



Brady, Prof. George S. 

Brown, R. W 

Cooke. O. T 

Dall, William II 



25283 

23(173 

: 24892 

25816 

Duges, Prof. A 24727 



INDEX BY DEPARTMENTS. 



599 



DEPARTMENT XI— Continued. 



MARINE INVERTEBRATES- C< >1| < imit 



Accession 
number. 

Edwards, Dr. A. M 25511 

Fish Commission, U. S. . . .24754. 24842, 25547, 25650 

Fosdick, Charles R 25094 

Gibbes, Prof. Lewis R 24977 

Greegor, 1 25529 

Henderson, J. C, jr 25300 

Jaquay, H. R 24982 

Johnson, Prof. O. B 24584 

Jouy.P. L 24615 

Kingston Exposition, Bahama Court 25010 

Lloj d, Francis F 24914 

Louderman, H. B 25156 

Loomis, Rev. Henry 25379 

Millmore, William 24776 

Morgan, T. H 25373 

Murray, John 25825 

Norman, Rev. A. M 25506 

< (tago University Museum, Dunedin, New 

Zealand 25341 



Accession 
number. 

Parker, A. H 25464 

Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass .... 25342 

Potter, Rev. J. A., U. S. A 25663 

Rathbun, Richard - 25381 

Richmond, Charles W 25828 

Royal Zoological Museum, Florence, Italj 24918 

Sawj er, Lieut. F. F . U.S. N 25340 

Simps, in, Charles T 25300, 25455 

Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

M usiuni 24645, 25444 

Stearns, Frederick 24617 

Stearns, Dr. R. E.C 25507 

Turpc, Albert 24710 

Webb, Judge John G 25568 

Wells. Roger, jr., TJ. S. N 25336 

Wildmann, Hon. Rounsevelle 25862 

Wilkinson, E 25435 



DEPARTMENT XII. 



< Iompak u ive Anatomy. 



Abbott, Dr. W. L 










25470 


Auckland Museum. Auckland, 


New 


Zea- 














24957 


Baur, Dr. G ■ 










25817 


Bryan, (). N 










24837 


Caton, II. J 










25411 


Hall William H 










25846 


Fish Commission, TJ. S 




.■J 4 '.I.V.I 


25055 


25157 




25193 


251 


70 


25494 


25570 


Garner, R. L 










25124 


Interior Department. 


U. S. 


ie< 


log 


ieal 














25245 


Lee. W. G 










24788 












25414 


Lucas. Frederick A 










25471 












25464 












24386 












24985 












25344 



Shul'eklt, Dr. R. W., 0". S. A 24691 

Smith, Dr. Hugh M 25228, 25230, 25251 

Smithsonian Institution. F. S. National 

Museum 24686 

Smithsonian Institution. National Zo- 

Slgoical Park 25038,25049 

25063. 25220, 25275,25810, 25870 

Stabler, James P L>5634 

Treasury Department. F. S. Life-Saving 

Service 25346 

True. Dr. Charles A 25642 

Ward's Natural Science Establishment, 

Rochester, New York .2 1982, 25052 

Wells. Roger, jr., TJ. S. N 25336 

Wilcox, Dr. Timothy F., V. S. A 25401 

Williams, J. H 25125 

Wilson. Scott i: 25638,25639 

W I. Miss E. M 25182, 25816 



DKPARTMENT XIII. 



i A i Invertebrate: Fossils (Paleozoic). 



Australian Museum, Sydney. New South 

Wales 24597 

Brock, Herbert E 2464 1 . 25508, 25G83 

Bryan, 0. X 24837 

Bryant, Henry C, 25288 

Chapin, E. H 24610 

Golson, Edwards 25061 

Hanske, E. A 24938 

llovey, George U. S 25630 

Lane, L. C , 25523- 

Lemon, Dr. J. II _':>514 

Miller, Charles, jr 25711 

New York State Museum, Albany 25670 



Rambo, M.Elmer : 25058 

Randall, F. A 25502 

Ransdell, Harry 24935 

Rominger, Dr. Fail 25325 

Russell. Frank 25617, 25655 

Tate, Willie B 24935 

Tornquist, Leon 24609 

Tucker, Mrs. L. M 25607 

Vail, Benjamin 25496 

Wilcox, Walter I) 25155 

Williamsburgh Scientific Society, I rook- 

lyn 25500,25590 

Vale, Charles 24652 



GOO 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1892 1 . 

DEPARTMENT XIII— Continued. 
(P.) Invertebrate Fossils (Mtcsomhc). 



Accession 

number. 

Blackburn, Edwin 25085 

Collins, Miss Mary ( ' 25050 

McCreery, J. H 25354, 25543 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A., U.S. A 25578 

Sqnyer. Hoiuer 25557 



Accession 

number. 

Townley, X. M., jr 25811. 

Trne, Dr. Charles A 25042 

Walcott, 0. I) 25218 

Young, J. A 24855 



DEPARTMENT XIV. 
Fossil Plants. 



Calcutta Botanic Garden 25563 

Bryan, 0. X 24837 

Cbidsey, Charles E 24824 

Evenuann. Prof. 15. AV ?5327 

Henshaw, H. W 25291 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Survey 25210 

Lacoe, R. D 2542C 



I. owe, Dr. James H - 

Meeds, Prof. A. D 

Nebring, Prof. Dr. A 

Otis & Gorsline 

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, 

Stockholm 

Thwaites, George H 



24723 
25292 
25510 

250112 

25227 
25393 



DEPARTMENT X 1 

Recent Plants. 



Agriculture, Department of 25287 

Auckland Museum, Auckland, New Zea- 
land 24H57 

Raines, E. A 25813 

Bryant, Henry ( ; 25288 

< 'hambers, J. A 25035 

I rages, Prof. A 24727 

Ferry, Mrs. CM 24555 

Fish Commission. IT. S 25079, 25080. 25084 



Gurley, R. R 25267 

Huntley, John 25709 

Mc( 'arthy, ( ieral.I 25874 

Pringle, C. G 24614, 25883 

Rathbun, Miss M. J 25404 

State, Department of 25601 

Tollin, Oscar 25436, 25832 

Walker, Ernest 24673 



DEPARTMENT XVI. 



Minerals. 



Allen, Ira R 

A nn it age. John H 

A rrington, W. A 

Bement, C. S 

Bowman, D. A 24713,24790,24997 

Brown, Charles F 21707, 

Caton, U..r 

Chatard.Dr. T. M 

( lay well. Robert T 

Demcker, Robert 24851), 

Donaldson, Thomas 

Eakins, L. G 24809, 

Egleston, Prof. Thomas 

Endlich, Dr. F. M 

Engle, Horace M 

English, George 1... & ( '.o 

Foote. A. E 24751,25203, 

Forrester, Robert 

Hamlin, Dr. A. C 

Hartman, J. M 

Hay, Robert 

Heald.F.E 

Hornbrook, R. I. 

Howell, E. E 

Interior Department. U. S. Geological 

Sui vey 2453) I, 24550, 2470::. 

25024, 25034, 25174. 25192, 25260, 
2545 1 , 25541 , 251127, 2572 1 . 25768, 



25739 
25643 

24714 
25395 

25285 
25750 
25572 
24552 
24952 
25758 
24(102 
24089 
2515(1 
24772 
25728 
217(1(1 
25205 
24011 
24043 
24801 
25254 
2471(1 
24. silt 
24752 

2493(1 
25201 
25S51 



Jenney, Dr. W. P 

• bines, WAV 

Kedzie, G. E 

Klol/, Otto J 

Lamb, T. F 

Langdale, John W 

Laws, Franklin 

Lettrick, E. F 

Limlsey. H. A 

Lowe. Dr. James H 

Macl'arlane, R 

Mc( iinniss, William H 

Markson, Philip A 

Minileleff, Cosmos 

Morganton Land Improvement Company, 

Morganton, X'. C 

Patton, W 

Pclkey.S. A 

Pentield, Prof. S. L 25202, 

Penny packer, C. II 247S7, 

Penrose, R. A. F. jr 

Pickles, Julian 

Ray, ( iaiTett D 24917, 

Reddirig, E.L 

Rogers, O. P 

Puss A. P. 

Sharpies, H. P 

Shell on, J. C 24712, 



25422 
25368 
24748 
25190 
24928 
25452 
25772 
24933 
21949' 
24723 
24594 
2505G 
24934 
2498S 

24964 
24674 
25077 
25121 
25453 
25214 
25239 
24995 
25864 
2105s 
24805 
24543 
24747 



Index by departments. 



601 



DEl'AKTMEXT XVI — ( '.mtiiiu.-d. 



Minerals—* Continued, 



Accession 
number. 

Sheppanl. James H 2475!) 

Simpson, A. M 24656 

Smithsonian Institution. IT. S. National 

Museum 24715, 24993, 25 1 98 

Snyder, Jacob 24750 

Spindle, H. H 25030 

Stfeng, Prof. A 25789 

Tibbey, B 251 129 

Toms.Capt. M. C 24742 

Treasury Department. U.S. Life-Saving 

Service 25640 

Ulke, Titus 25374 



Accession 
number. 

Von Streeruwitz, W. H 25482 

Walcqtt, CD 25191 

Ward, H. A 24762,24778 

Westall, S. J ... 24998 

Willcox, J 24802 

Williams, Dr. George II 25450 

Willi amsburgh Scientific Society, Brook- 



lyn 

Wilson, XL. 

W 1, Tingle; 

Teates. W. S. 



25719 
25738 
24810 
24999 



DEPARTMENT XVII. 



Ainley, H. John 25390 

Alexander, John 25189 

Allen. C. M 24796 

Barton, George H 25105 

Bayley, Prof. W. S 25366 

Blackburn, Edwin 25085 

Bourke, Capt. John G-, TT. S. A 25619 

Bowers, Hon. W. W., M. C 25183 

Bryan, O.N 24837 

Bryant, Henry G 25288 

Burns, Frank 25359 

Capwell, V. L 25179 

Claiborne, J. H 24605 

Clouse, Henry 25147 

Cowan, R. L 24798 

Cowie, James 25213 

Crosby, F. W 25272, 25644 

Crosby, Prof. W. 25623 

Cunningham, C. W 24580 

Dole Brothers 25430 

Drake, C. F 25081 

Durock, P.H 25390 

Evansville Pressed Brick Company, 

Evansville, Ind 25.S54 

Farrington, O. C 24581. 24639 

Fish Commission, IT. S 25157 

Fisher, Dr. H. 1 25815 

Florida Phosphate Company. Phosphoria, 

Fla 24676 

Forrester, Robert 24611, 25324 

< iould. Dr. H. W 24638 

Hall. ( 'hades n 24805 

Hand, C. II 24707 

Hanskt- E. A 25377 

Harris, Joseph A 24612 

Hart, J. C 24741 

Hay. Prof. Robert 24784,24881 

Bill, R. T 24642 

Howard, E. L 24785 

Howell, E. E 25277 

Interior Department. V. S. Geological 

Survey 2 187.9, 25090 

Jenney, Dr. W. 1' 2525:!. 25276 

Keeney, Judge CD 25512 

Lamar, T. G., & Co 25811 



Langdale, John W 25480, 25673 

Lindgren, W 25622 

Loper, S. Ward 2520 I, 25428, 25546 

Lowe, Dr. James II 24723 

Lynch. Alexander 24604 

McGee,W. J 25195 

Markson. Philip A 24735, 25194 

Martin, Dr. 1). S 24755 

Mearns, Dr. Edgar A. , F. S. A 25879 

Moffett, J. S 25240 

Morrison, Prof. James II 25457, 25517 

Narrin, Mrs. N. L 24621 

Northrup, Dr. G. J 25802 

Xeale. G. C 25225 

O'Neill, Will iam ( ) 21504. 25525 

Palmer, Edward 24600 

Payn. Elias J 25801 

Pecos Red Sandstone Company, Pecos 

City, Tex 25351 

Pfordte, Otto F 25278 

Retsof Mining Company. New York City 24554 

Robertson. W. B 24820 

Sadtler, M. A 24546 

Shumaker, P. F 25707 

Sigua Iron Company. Santiago de Cuba . . 25803 
Smithsonian Institution. U. S. National 

Museum. . . . 24729, 24731, 24903,24912, 25002,25198 
2519!i. 25226, 25247. 2520(1. 25385. 25499 

Strother, W. A 258 

TheGolding & Sons Company, Hockessin, 

Del 24720 

Ton Streeruwitz, W.H. . .24725. 25482, 25059, 25206 

WalcottC.D 25207 

Watts, Blake. Beartte &Co., Devonshire, 

England 25527 

White, Dr. C. H. , I*. S. X 24«l!l 

Wielaud, George R 25100 

Williams Dr. GeorgoH 25057 

Willis. E 24640 

Wilson Mining Company, Brumswick, 

Me 25585 

Witman Brothers 25,13 

\V Is, Frank T 25212 

Worth, U. X 2497 1. 252:::: 

/.aim Henry 24753 



INDEX. 



A. 

Page. 

Abbott, W. EL, specimens transmitted by 92 

Abbott, W. L 143 

contributions from 93 

Accession list, index by departments to 591 

localities to 579 

Accessions, list of 527 

to the Mnsenm , (56 

to the department of birds 148 

botany 198 

fishes 100 

geology 210 

insects . . . : 171 

mammals 143 

minerals 202 

mollusks 165 

paleozoic fossils 192 

prehistoric anthropology 135 

historical collections 116 

section of graphic arts 122 

Adams, A. C 51 10, 509 

Adams, Henry 109 

Additional mnsenm building 

Adler, Cyrus 13 

paper by 437 

notice of paper by 500 

report of Ill 

Administrative staff 11 

work, review of the 23 

Africa, important accessions from 66 

Agassiz, Alexander, papers by 500 

Alabama, important accessions from 69 

Alaska, important accessions from 69 

Albatross, collection of fishes made by the steamer 159 

Allen, J. A 152 

courtesy of 435 

papers by 500 

America (British), important accessions from 68 

America (Centril), important accessions from 68 

America (North), important accessions from 67 

American aboriginal pottery, report on the department of 109 

aboriginal pottery, review of work in the department of 16 

carboniferous flora 186 

I [istorical Association 11 7 

Oriental Society 112 

603 



604 INDEX. 

Page. 

Ames, Howard E - . ,.,....,.... ^ .....,, ^ .. . 89 

Andrews, E. A., paper by 500 

Appropriations, 1892 56 

f< >r 1892-'93 

Archseological specimens, distribution of 142 

Arizona, important accessions from 69 

Arkansas, important accessions from 70 

Armadillos, group of 420 

Ashmead, W. H 174 

Asia, important accessions from 77 

Asia Minor, important accessions from 78 

Asiatic Russia, important accessions from 78 

Aspidotiectes, cast of 404 

A. S. Seer Theatrical Printing Company 121 

Atwater, W. O 13 

Australasia, important accessions from 81 

Australian museum 176 

Ayres, Edward F .. „ 500 

paper by 526 

B. 

Badger 427 

Baker, Frank 13 

Baldwin, A. H 159 

Balfour, Henry 140 

Bartleman, R. M ' , 83, 105 

photographic outfits furnished to , , 96 

photographs presented by 93 

Baur, C. G 157 

Beale, Hou. Truxton 83, 112 

Bean, Barton A 13 

papers by 501 

Bean, Tarleton H 13, 92 

papers by 501, 502, 503 

report of 159 

specimens presented by 92 

Beard, Miss N. C 163 

Bendire, ( 'harles E 13, 84 

Bendire, Charles E. , papers by 503 

report of 153 

Benedict, James E 13, 175, 512 

outfit furnished to 96 

papers by 503 

specimens collected by 93 

Benjamin , Park 131 

Benson, Harry C " 85 

Bernadou, J. B 107 

Bibliography 495 

Bierstadt, E 121 

Birds' eggs, principal accessions to the collection of 153 

review of work in the department of 17 

Birds, principal accessions to the department of 148, 153 

report on the department of 147 

review of work in the department of 17 

special researches by the curator of 152 

Black ducks, group of 407 



INDEX. 605 

Page. 

Blind c:ive salamander 155 . 

Blundell, Herbert Weld 112 

Boas, Franz 106 

"'Bombi" .' 436 

Bond, S. Hazen 163 

Bonellia viridis 391 

Botanical books, card catalogue of -. 197 

Botany, accessions to the department of 197 

growth of the department of 197 

report on the department of 197 

Bourke, John G - 81, 96, 105, 109 

1 Soyd, John C 13, 86 

Brahma hen 412 

Brandt, Carl L 112 

Brainier, John C 503 

paper by 505 

Brazil, important accessions from 77 

Brimley, C. 8., paper by 503 

British South African Exploring Society 94 

Britts. J. H 189 

Brown, Herbert 156 

Bryan, O.N 139 

Brown, S. C 14, 23 

Brown, William Harvey 94 

Buffalo fish, cast of 398 

Building for the Museum, proposed additional 6 

Buildings and labor 63 

Burchell's zebra 425 

Bureau of ethnology 139 

cooperation of the 92 

Burns, Frank 163 

paper by ' 451 

tomahawk collected by ... - 88 

Bush, Miss K.J 178 

Butler, Amos W., paper by 503 

€. 

California, important accessions from 70 

Culvert, P. C 173 

Camp, J. H., collecting outfit furnished to 97 

collections from Africa transmitted by 94 

Carcliarltinus obscunts, cast of 396 

Carlisle, A. C 139 

Casey, Capt, T. L 173 

Cassel; Capt. W. II , 144 

Catalogue entries 11 

of chipped implements from India 457 

Chanler, William Astor 94 

Chanute, Octave 130 

Chapman, Frank H., papers by 503 

( hapman, Frank M 152 

Character and origin of fossil remains, the 251 

Chatard, T. M 87, 88 

Chatelain, Heli, collecting apparatus furnished to 96 

Cherrie, George K., papers by , , 503, 504 



606 INDEX. 

Page. 

Cheshire, W. W 87 

Chile, nitrate of soda from 77 

China, important accessions from 77 

Chittenden, J. F 83 

Claims of geological science upon investigators, museums, etc 362 

Clark, A. Howard 13, 14 

report of 115 

Clark,-, F. W 14, 89, 519 

papers by 504 

report of 201 

Clark, Miss May 8^ 

Clay, Col. Cecil, woodland caribou transmitted by 92 

"Coal Flora," report on the 186 

Colinus, mounted specimens of 413 

Collections, condition of the 8 

Collectors' outfits supplied 95 

Collins, ('apt. J. W 13,92 

Colombia (U. S. of), gold ornaments from 77 

( lolorado, important accessions from 71 

( olorist 66 

Comparative anatomy, report on the department of. . 181 

review of work in the department of 21 

Comparative oology of North American birds, paper on 461 

Condition of the collections 8 

Connecticut, important accessions from 71 

Contributions to the knowledge of the older Mesozoic flora of Virginia 185 

Cook, O. F 176,178 

Cooperation of the departments and bureaus of tlie Government .82 

('ope. E. 1 >.. papers by 504, 520 

Correlative geology and its criteria 314 

Correspondence and reports, division of 61 

Cory, Charles 1!., paper by 504 

Corystoid crabs, report on 177 

Costa Rica, identification of birds from 147 

Coulter, John M., paper by 504 

Cornier Lithographing Co 121 

Coville, Frederick V 503 

papers by 505 

Cox memorial vase 116 

Cox, W. V.. chief clerk . . . 14, 56 

Crawford, Consul-Gencral John M , . . - , . . 83 

Criteria of past aqueous conditions 328 

Crump burial cave, paper on the . , 451 

Crustaceans, dried preparations of 176 

Culiu, Stuart 100 

Curators, list of 13 

Cyprimi8 carpio, cast of , . . 398 

Cyrtovyx, mounted specimen of 414 

». 

Dakota group, the flora of the... 189 

Pall, William Healey . r . . r , , , . 13, 14, 88, 89, 105 

papers by . . . 595, 506 

report of 163 

Daniel, Z. T .................. rr „..,...„, -. ............ ... ..SO, 105 



INDEX. 607 

Page. 

Death Valley expedition, collect ions made by the 93 

Decreased edition of the Museum report g 

DeKay, Charles, paper by 506 

Denmark, important accessions from 7!i 

Denton. S. F... specimens presented by 92 

Department of Agriculture, cooperal ion of Ihe 89 

Interior, cooperation of the 8g 

Justice, cooperation of the 92 

State, cooperation of 82 

Departments, index to accession list by 59] 

Development and arrangement of the exhibition series 11 

Dewey, L. II., paper by .711; 

Dexter, Louis, collecting ontlit furnished to «I7 

Dipt era, arrangement of the 173 

Distribution of specimens 24 

Distiict of Columbia, important accessions from 71 

Dixon, William S 13. 86 

report of .' 133 

Dodge, R. I 84, 105 

Dolley, C. S . 178 

Dowling, Thomas 109 

Dnges, A • ~s 

Duuton, J.J 84, 181 

E. 

Eakins, L. G £6 

Earll, R. Edward i;;. 14 

Eclipse expedition <»4 

contributions from the 86 

Economic ornithology, division of (Department of Agriculture), contributions 

from the 89 

Edwards, Vinal N., specimens transmitted by . . .'. 92 

Edwards, W. H 173 

Eigenmann. Carl II., papers by 506 

Eigenman, Rosa S., papers by 506 

Elson & Co., A. W 121 

Emmons, George F 85, 105 

Engraving tools, manner of handling 224 

Erimacriis 177 

Ethnology, accessions to the department of 104 

report on the department of 101 

review of work in department of 14 

EiijHH/iirits. report on the genus 177 

European wood-cutter of sixteenth century 233 

Europe, important accessions from 79 

Evermann, Barton W 156, 160, 509 

paper by 5U6 

specimens deposited by 92 

Examination and report, specimens received for 32 

Exhibition series, development and arrangement of the 11 

Explorations .,., «i;i 



608 INDEX. 

F. 

Page. 

Faxon, Walter 178 

Fernow, B. E , , 13, 90 

report of 125 

Fewkes, J. Walter 106 

Figgins, J. D 156 

Fillette, T. G 85 

Finance, property, supplies, and accounts 56 

Fish ( oinmission vessels, marine invertebrates collected by 175 

Fishes, accessions to the department of 160 

distribution of sets of 160 

report on the department of 159 

review of work in the department of 18 

Pish Hawk, collections of iishes obtained by the steamer 160 

Flint, James M 13, 86 

Florida, important accessions from 71 

Floridian uiiios, report on . . . % 166 

Flying lemur 427 

Fontaine, Prof. William II 1S5, 190 

Foods, review of work on collection of 16 

Foreign exchanges 45 

Forestry, division of (Department of Agriculture), contribution from the 89 

report on the section of 125 

review of work in the section cf 16 

Forrer, R 141 

Fosdick, Charles R 85 

Fossil jdants, condition of the collection of 187 

exhibition series of 189 

report on the department of 185 

review of work in the department of 22 

France, important accessions from 79 

G. 

( falapagos molliisks, work on the 167 

Gambel's partridge 413 

Game cock, head of 411 

Gastrolepidia clavigera 391 

Gatschet, A. S 92 

Geare, Randolph I., chief, division of correspondence 14, 61 

Geographical review of accessions 66 

Geological collections distributed 206 

obtained , 205 

material, exchanges of r ...... r 212 

received for examination 213 

( Seology, accessions to the department of 210 

plan of exhibit for the World's Fair in the department of 209 

report on the department of , 235 

review of work in the department of 23 

Georgia, important accessions from 72 

Germany, important accessions from , 79 

Giglioli, Henry H 105. 136 

Gilbert, Charles H., papers by 506 

Gilbert, G. K „...„,.„ , ,-,,„. 109 



INDEX. 609 

Page 

Gill. Theodore, papers by 506,507 

Ginglymostoma cirratum ;;;i7 

Glacial actiou, materials illustrative of 210 

Golson, E. S L09 

Goode, (J. Brown 13 

papers by 507 

Gould's Monitor, specimen of 400 

Graff, L . 189 

Grampus, collect ions of lishc-s obtained by the schooner Kill 

Granier, Emile ' 105 

Grant, Henry G 106 

Graphic arts, accessions to the section of 122 

report mi the sect ion of 121 

review of work in the section of 15 

Great auk 406 

( ireat Britain, important accessions from 7!t 

Greece, minerals from so 

Gurley, R. R., collecting apparatus furnished to 96 

specimen received from 92 

II, 

Haddon, A. C 105 

Harber, G. B 86, 106 

Harden, William 109 

Hurrah, David A. , collections made by 87 

Harris. George E 155 

Harris, ( Hlbert Dennison 163 

paper by 507 

! [asbrouck, Edwin M., papers by .. :'. 507 

Hatcher. .1. I! ■•-.----. 17(1 

Haupt, Paul 13, 112 

papers by 507 

Hay. <>. 1' .• . ..-. 155, 1.5(5. 157 

paper by ,...-. 507 

Hawaiian Islands, import ant accessions from Si' 

Healy, M. A 84,143 

Henderson, jr., J. C 17l> 

Henshaw, II. W 93, 156 

Herbarium, accessions through the Museum to the 1.99 

distributions from the 199 

Hilgard, Prof, .1. E 116 

Hinrichs, jr., Oscar 191 

Histioteuthis bom lliana, model of :'>:>o 

Historical collections, accessions of 1 1ll 

report on 115 

Hitchcock, Frank II., birds received from 90 

Hodgson collection, papers relating to the 113 

Hod-son, William 1! Ill' 

Hoffman, W. J .92, 105 

Holland, W. J 17:: 

Holland, specimen of flint from SO 

Holm, Theodor 185 

papers by 507,508,509 

H. Mis. 114, pt. 2 39 



610 INDEX. 

. Page. 

Holmes, William II 13, 93 

pa pers by 509 

report of 109 

Holzinger, John M., paper by 509 

Holzner, Frank X 85 

Honduras, identification of birds from 147 

Horan, Henry 14 

Hough, Walter, paper by 106 

Howard, L. O., papers by 509, 518, 519 

Howell, E. E., prepares skeletons of fishes 159 

Hulst, Rev. George D 173 

Hurlburt, Miss C 217 

Hurter, Julius 156 

Hymenoptera, study of the 174 

I. 

Icelandic Natural History Society 105 

Idaho, important accessions from 71' 

Illinois, important accessions from 72 

InachidcB, preparation of catalogue of the 17S 

Increase in the Museum collections 6 

Index to accession list by departments 591 

localities 579 

India, impoi'tant accessions from 78 

Indian Ocean, shells from the 79 

Office, assistance afforded by the 86 

rhinoceros 436 

Territory, important accessions from 72 

Indiana, important accessions from 72 

Insects, accessions to the department of 171 

report on the department of 171 

review of work in the department of 19 

sent for determination 173 

in exchange 172 

International Boundary Commission 94 

Congress of Geologists 191 

Invertebrate fossils, review of work in the departments of 21, 22 

Itiily, important accessions from 80 

liiobus urns, cast of 398 

Ives, J. E., assistance rendered by 178 

J. 

Jackass rabbit -127 

Japan, important accessions from 78 

Japanese methods of woodcutting, old and modern 224 

woodcutting, aim of 224 

and woodcut printing, paper-on 221 

wood engraving, cost of 232 

Jaquay, H. R 176, 178 

Jarvis, D. H 84 

Jenkins, Oiver P 509 

paper by 506 

Jeuney, W. P 88 

collections made by , ....... , ........,.,,,,, , 87 



INDEX. 611 

Page. 

Jenny, Victor A 83 

Jimenez, Mariano, death of 7 

Johnson, L. C, shells from 88 

Johnson, S. B., fossil transmitted by 90 

Johnston, F. J 1 10 

Jordan, 1 >a vid Starr, paper by 509 

Jouett, Admiral and Mrs 85 

Jouy, P. L 107. 111.176,178 

collecting outfit furnished to 96 

letters of introduction given to 94 

reptiles from Korea collected by 156 

K. 

Kansas, important accessions from 72 

Kendall. W. C 502 

papers by 500 

Kentucky, important accessions from 72 

Kingston exposition 176 

Knife used in woodcut engraving by Papillon 234 

Knowlton, F. H : 14,188 

papers by 50! I. 510 

Koehler, S. R 13 

paper on Japanese woodcutting and woodcut printing edited by. 221 

papers by 510 

report of 121 

Korea, important accessions from 78 

Korean collection, catalogue of the ' 106 

Kunz, George F 83 

L. 

Lacoe collection of fossil plants 187 

Lacoe, R. D., fossil plants presented by 1S6 

Lamborn, R. II 106 

Lams occidenialis 407 

Later tertiary of the United States, report on the 166 

Lectures and meetings of societies 54 

Leidy, Joseph, fossils from the estate of 87 

Lesi| uereux, Leo 510 

Lewis, Merritt 87 

Library, increase in the 6 

operations of the 31 

Lindgren, W., collections made by 87 

rocks and ores from ^S 

Linell, Martin L 13 

Linguistic families of North American tribes 101 

Linton, Edwin 175. 1 78 

papers by 510 

List of accessions 527 

curators 13 

papers published during the year 500 

Lloyd, William, shells collected by 89 

Localities, index to accession list by 579 

Loomis, Leverett M., paper by 510 

Loomis, Rev. H 76 



612 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lopei , S. Ward 88 

Louisiana, important accessions from 72 

water I brushes, group of 435 

Lovett :, Edward 106, 140 

Lucas, Frederic A 13, 65 

papers by 510 

report of '. 181 

Itt. 

MacFarlane, K'.. paper by 511 

Madrid exposition 7 

preparation of exhibit for the 135 

Maiidce, catalogue of the 178 

Maine, important accessions from 72 

Malaysia, important accessions from 82 

M animal skins, mounted 1 14 

Mammals, accessions to the department of 143 

report on the department of 143 

review of work in the department of 17 

Mautegazza, l>r. Paolo 137 

Marine invertebrates, distribution of 179 

principal accessions to the department of 175 

report on the department of 175 

review' of work in the department of 20 

Marks. M. 1 139 

Marlatt, C. L : J 510 

paper by 519 

Marsh, O. (' 13,87,89 

report of 169 

Marx, < teorge 174 

Maryland, important accessions from 72 

Mason. Otis T 13 

papers by 510, 51 1 

report of 101 

Massachusetts, important accessions from 73 

Materia medica, report on the seel ion of 133 

review of work in the section of 17 

Matthews, D. Washington 105 

Maynard, George C, cooperation of 130 

Maynard, George AY 104 

McDonald, Marshall, collections transmitted by 91 

M cGee, W. G 88 

Mearns, Edgar A 85,94,97, 143 

Meigs, M. C 84 

Melville, W. 11. , collections made by 87 

Mendenhall, T. C 84 

Merriain, < '. Hart 156 

paper by 511 

Merrill, Consul-* General Samuel 82 

Merrill George P 14 

collecting outfit furnished to 97 

geological material collected by ■ 95 

papers by 511, 512 

report of , ........... 305 



INDEX. 613 

Page. 

Mesozoic fossils, report on the department of 195 

Meteorite collection 203 

Mexican Boundary Commission \\;\ 

Mexico, important accessions from 68 

Michigan, important accessions from 7;; 

Middleton, E. Morton l.V. 

Mindeleff, ( losmos 93 

Minerals, accessions to the department of 202 

condition of the collection of , 202 

plan for exhibit of. at the World's Fair 201 

report on the department of 201 

review of work in the department of 23 

Minnesota, important accessions from 73 

Minute stone implements from India, paper on. • 455 

Mirror carp, cast of 398 

Missouri, important accessions from 73 

Mollusks, accessions to the department of 165 

report on the department of 163 

review of work in the department of 19 

Montana, important accessions from 73 

Montandon, Prof. A. L _ 173 

Mooney, James 92, 93, 105 

Moor cock 411 

Moorehead, Warren K 138 

Morgan & Co., W. J 121 

Morgan, T. II 17t3 

Moseley, H. X., death of 7 

Mudfish, cast of 398 

Mukharj i, T. X '. 82 

' ' Mungo " 126 

Murdoch, John l& } 106 

Murray, John ]7(i 

Miisee d'histoire naturelle, Paris 1 14 

Museum staff 13 

Musk ox 423 

r*. 

National herbarium, report on the 197 

National Museum of Anthropology and Ethnology, Florence 137 

National Zoological Park 144 

Navy 1 department and the Navy, cooperal ion of the 85 

Xeale, J. C. 217 

Nebraska, important accessions from 73 

Necrology 7 

Nematophyton crassum 190 

Nevada, important accessions from 73 

Newberry, J. S., collections made by 88 

New Caledonia, birds' skins from 81 

New Guinea, important accessions from 81 

Newhall, William H 1 t, 95, 205, LM7 

New Hampshire, important accessions from 73 

New Jersey, important accessions from 71 

New Mexico, important accessions from 74 

New York, important accessions from 74 



614 INDEX. 

Page. 

New Zealand, important accessions from 81 

"Nonienclator Zoologicus," progress of work on 157 

Norman, Rev. Canon, A. M 176 

North America, important accessions from G7 

North Carolina, important accessions from 74 

North Dakota, important accessions from 74 

O. 

Oher, Fred A 105 

Oceanica, important accessions from 81 

Octopus, model of 389 

Ohio, selenite crystals from 75 

Oklahoma Territory, tomahawk pipe from 75 

Oology, report on the department of 153 

Opossums, group of : 43G 

Oregon, important accessions from 75 

Oriental antiquities, report on the collection of Ill 

review of work in the department of 15 

department, sections of Ill 

Oriole 409 

Orthoptera, rearrangement of the 173 

Osteological preparator 65 

Osteology of North American birds 182 

Otago Museum 176 

P. 

Packard, A. S 173 

Packard, R. L , 217, 512 

Paleozoic fossils, accessions to the department of 192 

report on the department of 191 

Palmer, Edward 135 

Palmer William 64 

Panghorn, Maj. J. (J 129 

Panojieus, monograph of the genn:; 177 

Paper used in wood-cut printing 225 

Papers by officers of the Museum and others, notices of 498 

describing and illustrating collections in the U. S. National Museum. . 219 

Papillon's manner of holding knife in wood engraving 235 

Parrot fish, cast of 398 

Parsons, Miss Katherine 131 

Payne, R. II 88 

Penfiehl, S. L., collections made by 88 

Penhallow, D. P 190 

Pennsylvania, important accessions from 75 

Pension Office, contributions from officers of the 87 

Periceridce, catalogue of the 178 

Peru, insects from 77 

Pheasant, mounted 414 

Phillips. W. Hallett 109 

Photographer 65 

Picher, Miss Anna 105 

Pied ducks, group of 435 

Pierce, William P 83 



INDEX. (315 

Page. 

Pigeons, mounting of , . . , . 412 

Pigments used in wood-cut printing 226 

Pilsbry, Henry A., paper liy 512 

Polar bear 429 

Polynesia, important accessions from 82 

Polynoe leucohyba 391 

Pompano 398 

Pond, Charles F 86 

Porter, D.J. H 85 

Potomac formation, exposures of the 188 

or younger mesozoic flora 185 

plants, collection of 185 

Potter, Rev. J. A 85 

collecting outfit furnished to 97 

Pottery of the mound builders, paper on the 109 

Powell, J. W 84, 87 

Prairie dog 427 

Pratt, P. H 106 

Prehistoric anthropology, accessions to the department of 135 

report on the department of 135 

review of work in the department of 15 

Preparation of labels 63 

specimens 64 

Prodelphinus plagiodon, cast of 420 

Prosser, Charles S 189, 190 

Proteus 155 

Pruden, Alfred '. 138 

Principal sources of the collections 4 

Printers' balls 238 

Printing on silk 225 

Publications 49 

of the Museum during the year 497 

Putnam, Prof. F. W 101 



(Queensland, bird and minerals from 81 

Queredo, Samuel A. L 109 

R. 

Rathbun, Mary J 175 

papers by 503, 512 

Rathbun, Richard 13,92 

collections transmitted by 91 

papers by 512 

report of 175 

specimens of Panopeus received from 92 

Recent plants, review of work in the department of 22 

Registration and storage 23 

Relation of biology to geological investigation, paper on tin- 24"' 

biology to systematic and historical geology 284 

fossil remains to structural geology j 275 

Relative chronological value of fossil remains 302 

Report, decreased edition of the 6 



616 INDEX. 

Page. 

Reports of the curators b9 

Report on the department of fossil plants 135 

collection of oriental antiquities Ill 

department of American aboriginal p<>1 tery 109 

birds 147 

botany L97 

comparative anatomy 181 

ethnology 101 

fishes 153 

geology - 205 

i usects 171 

ma inn i a Is 143 

marine invertebrates 175 

mesozoic fossils 135 

mill lusks (including cenozoic fossils) 163 

minerals 201 

oology 153 

paleozoic fossils.. 191 

prehistoric anthropology 135 

reptiles and batra-ehians 1 15 

vertebrate fossils 169 

historical collections 115 

seet ion of forestry 135 

graphic arts 121 

materia, medica 133 

transportation and engineering 127 

Reptiles and batrachians, report on the department of 153 

review of work in the department of 18 

Rev iew of administ rative work 23 

work in tbe scientific departments 14 

Rhode Island, important accessions from _ 75 

Rhombus maximus 397 

Richards, J. T .' 131 

Richmond, Charles W 156, L60 

birds" skins received from 90 

collecting apparatus furnished to iiti 

eo licet ions made by 95 

Ricketts, L 83 

Ridgway, Robert 13 

pa pers by 512, 513 

report of 147 

Riley, Charles V 13,90,509,510 

collections received througb 89 

papers by 513-519 

report of 171 

Roberts, S. L., objects deposited by 130 

Rollins, pair of 436 

Rockhill, \V. W.. collecting apparatus furnished to... 96 

Rock kangaroo 11!) 

Rocks and ores distributed, sets of 206 

Rose, ,). IS*., papers by 519 

Royal Kew Gardens 133 

Roj al Zoological .Museum, Florence 1HG 

Rnffed grouse 414 

Rush, W. H 86 



INDEX. 617 

Page. 

Russell. Charles II 564 

Russell, I. (' 105 

collections made by 88 

c\ plorations in Alaska made by - 95 

Russia, important accessions from. 80 

S. 

Sampson, F. A [55 

Sawyer, F. E KG, 170 

Schieffelin & Co., W. II 133 

Schneider. E. A r>l!l 

papers by - ' 501 

Scientific departments, review of work in the 14 

staff of the Museum 13 

taxidermy for museums, paper on 369 

Scolding parrot 109 

Scovell, .T. T 160 

collect inn' outfit furnished to 95 

Screech owl x . 416 

Scudder, X. P., assistant librarian 31 

Scale, William 1'., specimens received from 92 

Sedimentarj formations 268 

Sepia officinalis, model of 390 

Sewall, Hon. Howard M ! S3. 11)5 

Shindler, A. Zeno , 6(1 

Shofar, its use and origin, paper on the 437 

Sholes and Glidden typewriter, model of t lie 131 

Shufeldt, R. W 85 

notices of papers by 519, 220, 521 

papers by 363,461 

st in lies by 182 

Simpson. < lharles Torrey _ 163, 176 

collecting apparatus furnished to 97 

papers by 521 

Singer .Manufacturing Company 131 

Skaggs. U.R Ml 

Skate, plaster east of 396 

Skeletons obtained 181 

Smillie, T. W t;:, 

Smith A- Co., James P 121 

Smith, Hugh M., specimens transmitted by 92 

Smith, J. B ' 173 

Smith, S. I \ 17S 

Snow, Prof. F. II 190 

Solms-Laubach, II. Graf zu , 190 

South America, important accessions from 77 

South Carolina, important accessions from 75 

Sout li Dakota, important accessions from 75 

Spain, cast of Phoenician tomb from. 80 

Spanish cock 411 

Spencer, Mrs. 1!. 1) Ill 

Spicer, Capt. .1. O 105 

Staff of the Museum / 13 

Stearns, Frederick 112 



618 INDEX. 

Page. 

Stearns, F. A., specimens lent by 178 

Stearns, E. E. C 13, 89, 163 

papers by 521 

Steganopodes, study <>f the osteology of the 182 

Stejneger, Leonhard 13, 152 

papers by 521, 522 

report of 155 

Stephenson, A 140 

Steuart, Charles A 14 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. E 1)3 

St. Helena, shells from 7G 

Stone, Witmer, paper by 522 

Storment, Edgar L 144, 156 

Struve, Hon. Charles de 83, 106 

Students 55 

of coneholoiiv, assistance rendered to 106 

Sumatra cock 412 

Summers, II. E 173 

Sweden, fossils from 80 

Switzerland, Orthoptera from 81 

T. 

Tanner, Z. L. , papers by - 522 

Taxidermists 64 

Telfair Academy of Arts and Sciences .' 112 

Tdmtssns 177 

Tertiary mollusks, report on the 167 

Test, Frederick C '155, 157 

paper by 522 

Texas, important accessions from 75 

The Shofar, its use and origin, paper on 437 

Thomas, William S 140 

Thompson, Edward S 139 

Thomson's gazelle 422 

Thomson, William J., paper by 522 

Thornton, II. K 106 

Tokuno, T., paper on Japanese woodcut ting and woodcut printing, commu- 
nicated by 221 

Tools of the woodcut printer 229 

wood-engraver 222 

Townsend, Charles II •__. 181 

specimens transmit ted by 92 

Trachynotns carolinus 398 

Transportation and engineering, accessions to the collection in the section of. 130 

report on the section of 127 

review of work in the department of 16 

Treasury Department, cooperation of the 83 

Trigger-fish, cast of 398 

Trinity formation 188 

True, A. Charles, fossils presented by 90 

True, Frederick W 13 

papers by 522 

report of 143 

Tupinambis, cast of 405 

Turbot 397 



INDEX. 619 

Page. 

Turner, H. W 88, 89 

Turner, J. H : 106 

Turner, R. W 83 

Typh lot ri ton 8pelceu8 155 

II. 

Union College, specimens lent by 178 

Unionida?, work on the 167 

United States, important accessions from the 69 

Upham, E.P : 13 

Upper Paleozoic plants, accessions of 189 

l'. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey 84 

U. S. Fish Commission, cooperation of the 91 

U. S. Geological .Survey, collections made by the 87 

U. S. Life Saving Service 84 

U. S. Revenue Marine Service 84 

V. 

Van Deman, H. E., black skimmer presented by _ 90 

Vasey , George 14, 90 

papers by 522, 523 

report of 197 

'•'travelers tree," presented by 90 

Vermont, important accessions from 76 

Verrill, A. E 178 

Vertebrate fossils from the west 169 

plan for exhibition of 170 

report on the department of 169 

review of work in the department of 18 

Victoria, insects from 81 

Virginia, important accessions from 76 

Visitors 6,53 

W. 

Walcott, CD ]4 ( 89 

paper by 523 

report of 191 

Walrus 429 

War 1 >epartment and the Army, cooperation of the 84 

Ward, Lester F 14, 89 

papers by 523. 524, 525 

report of 185 

Washington, important accessions from 76 

Watkins, J. Elfreth 13 

papers by 525, 526 

report of 127 

Watson, Sereno, death of 7 

Webb, Alexander R 83 

Webb, DeWitt 139 

Webb, Hon. Alex. R KG 

Wells, Roger , 86 

West Indies, important accessions from 76 

Weston, Arthur H 109 



620 INDEX. 

Pa<re. 

West Virginia, important accessions from 76 

White, A. W 138 

White, C. A 14, 89 

paper by 245 

report of 195 

White, C. H 86 

White, David ■ 187, 189 

White, Harry G., birds presented by 90 

Wilcox, Timothy E 85. 95, 156 

collecting apparatus furnished to 97 

Wilder, Harris H., paper by 526 

Wildman, Hon. Rounsevelle 83, 105 

Wild turkey 415 

Williams, George H., paper by 526 

Williams, Talcott, plants from Morocco obtained by 188 

Wilson, Thomas 13, 95 

notice of papers by 521 i 

papers by 455 

report of 135 

Wiiilock, W. (' 13 

Winn, John S 144 

Wol IV, M 121 

Wood-cut printer and printing 230 

Woodruff, Charles E 85, 105 

Woods used in wood-cut printing 222 

Woolman, Prof. A. J 160 

World's Fair, preparation of exhibits for the 4 

Worth, S. G 105 

Worthen, C. K 144 

WyckofT, Seamans & Benedict 131 

Wyoming, important accessions from 76 

1. 

Yeates. William 8 14,500 

minerals and fossils collected by 95 

paper by 526 

Z. 

Zamiosirobus mirabilis 190 



e 



