#/^^J^^ 



s 



3 



V Jr 




'•:^: 



'^ 



»^%KI^ 



;M. 



■^J 



2^x 



V 



ANNUAL EErOET 



BOARD OF EEQENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR 1875. 



WASniNGTON: 

G O V F. R N M E N T IMl I N T I N G O F F I O E 
187G. 



The following resolution was agreed to in tbe Senate, April 20, 1876, and concurred 
in by tbe House of Representatives May 24, 187G : 

Eesolvcd hy the Senate (the House of liepresentaiires concurring,) Tbat ten tbonsand five 
hundred coi)ies of the Report of tbe Sniitbsonian Institution for tbe year 1875 be 
printed, one thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the Senate, two thousand 
copies of which shall be for tbe use of the House of Representatives, and seven thou- 
sand five hundred copies for tbe use of the Smithsonian Institution : Provided, That 
the aggregate number of pages shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and that there 
shall be no illustrations, except those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution. 

\ 



LETTER 

FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMHHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1875. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, April 7, 1876. 
Sir: Iu behalf of tlie Board of Eegents, I have the liouor to submit 
to tbe Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera- 
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for 
the year lS7o. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. T. \Y. Ferry, 

F resident of the Senate. 
Hon. M. C. Kerr, 

Spealier of the House of Representatives. 



AMUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1875. 



This document contains : 

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1875, with the sta- 
tistics of collections, exchanges, &c. 

2. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial 
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, 
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1875, and the estimates for 
187G. 

3. The proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of Jan- 
uary, 187G. 

4. A general appendix, consisting principally of translations from for- 
eign journals or works not generally accessible, but of interest to the 
collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others 
interested in the promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ULYSSES S. GRANT, Presideut of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer. 
MOKKISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution, (Presideut of the Board of Regents.) 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, (or Director of the lustitution.) 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, President ofilie Board. 

T. W. FERRY, actiug Vice-President of the United States. 

H. HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. W. STEVENSON, member of the Senate of the United States. 

A. A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States. 

HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives. 

BENJAMIN H. HILL, member of the House of Representatives. 

GEO. W. McCRARY, member of the House of Representatives. 

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington. 

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts. 

J. U. DANA, citizen of Connecticut. 

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania. 

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 



PETEE PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEORGE BANCROFT. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



U. S. GRANT, Pnvsident of the United States. 

T. W. FERRY, Vice-President of tlio United States. 

M. R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

H. FISH, Secretary of State. 

B. H. BRISTOW, Secretary of the Treasury. 

ALPHONSO TAI"r, Secretary of War. 

G. M. ROBESON, Secretary of the Navy. 

MARSHALL JEWELL, Postmaster-General. 

Z. CHANDLER, Secretary of the Interior. 

E. PIERREPONT, Attorney-General. 

R. H. DUELL, Commissioner of Patents. 



OFFICEES AND ASSISTANTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, Director of the Institution. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary and Curator of the National Museum. 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

CLARENCE B. YOUNG, Clerk in charge of Accounts. 

DANIEL LEECH, Clerk in charge of Correspondence. 

HERMANN DIEBITSCH, Clerk in charge of Exchanges. 

J. A. TURNER, Clerk in charge of Library. 

M. E. GRIFFIN, Clerk in charge of Distribution of Publications. 

S. G. BROWN, Clerk in charge of Freight. 



Prof. G. B. GOODE, Assistant Curator oj the National Museum. 
Prof. F. M. ENDLICH, in charge of Mineralogical Division. 
Prof. ROBERT RIDGWAY, in charge of Ornithological Division. 
Prof. W. H. DALL, in charge of Conchological Divisio7i. 
Prof. EDW. FOREMAN, in charge of Ethnological Division. 
T. W. SMILLIE, Photographer. 
JOSEPH PALMER, Tamdermist. 

Prof. THEODORE GILL, Resident Collaborator in General Zoology. 

Prof F. B. MEEK, Resident Collaborator in Palaiontology. 

Prof. E. COUES, Resident Collaborator in Mammalogy and Ornithology. 

Prof. CHAS. RAU, Resident Collaborator in Ethnology. 

Prof O. T. MASON, Resident Collaborator in Ethnology. 



JOSEPH HERRON, Janitor. 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 1876. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smitlisonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I have the honor herewith to preseut to your honorable 
board the report of the condition and operations of the Smithsonian 
Institution during the year 1875. In presenting this report, I am happy 
to be able to inform you that nothing has occurred since the close of 
your last session which in the least degree has interfered with the pros- 
perity of this establishment. On the contrary, it will be manifest from 
the report that the Institntion has continued with unabated energy to 
carry out the intention of its founder, as expressed in the terms of his 
will, by increasing and diffusing knowledge among men. 

The several annual reports of the Secretary are intended to form a 
continnous history of the Institution, and, therefore, it is necessary to 
state, what is already known to the Regents, that since the date of the 
last report several changes have taken place in the board. Among the 
first of these we have to mention is that occasioned by the death of the 
late Vice-President of the United States, Hon. Henry Wilson. He was 
ex-officio a member of the board, and took part in the deliberations of its 
last session. In his death science and education have lost a warm 
friend, who always exerted his influence for their advancement. He 
ever advocated all propositions submitted to Congress for explorations 
and researches which might extend the bounds of knowledge. In two 
previous instances of vacancy in the office of Vice-President, the place 
in the Board of Regents was supplied first by the Hon. L. F. S. Foster, 
of Connecticut, and, second, by the Hon. B. F. Wade, presiding officers 
at the time of the Senate. In conformity with this usage, the place of 
Mr. Wilson will be filled by the Hon. T. W. Ferry. 

The Speaker of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the 
law of organization of the Institution, has filled the vacancies occasioned 
by the expiration of tlie term of service of Messrs. Cox, Hoar, and Ha- 
zelton, by the appointment as Regents from the House of Representa- 
tives of the Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania, Hon. B. H. Hill, of 
Georgia, and the Hon. G. W. McCrary, of Iowa. 

The operations of the Institution at present consist principally of two 
classes : first, of those relating to the immediate objects of the bequest, 
viz, the increase and difi'usion of knowledge among men, through re- 
searches, publications, and exchanges ; and, second, those which per- 
tain to the care and management of the Government collections in nat- 

7 



8 "^ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ural history and ethnology, constituting the National Museum, of which 
the Institution is the custodian. In regard to the latter, the operations 
and responsibilities of the directors have been greater than ever before. 
Congress, at its last session, not only made the usual appropriation of 
$20,000 for the care of the museum, $10,000 for cases, and |2,500 for an 
extension of the heating-apparatus, but also, in addition to these sums, 
granted $07,000 for the display of the collections of the National Mu- 
seum at the Centennial Exhibition iu Philadelphia. A part of this latter 
sum, however, was reserved for the payment of a portion of the cost of 
a temporary building for the exhibition of the articles belonging to the 
Government, leaving about $50,000 for the display by the Institution. 
This latter appropriation was made in connection with a series of appro- 
priations to enable the several Departments of the Government, as well 
as the Smithsonian Institution, to participate in the Exhibition. Each 
of these parties was directed to appoint a representative, the whole 
forming an executive board, to which was to be given the power to con- 
trol the disbursements of the appropriations ; the bills to be paid by a 
disbursing-officer, upon vouchers certified by the respective representa- 
tives, and countersigned by the chairman of the board. Although the 
appropriation in question was made by Congress to enable the Institu- 
tion to discharge certain duties, it was by the arrangement above men- 
tioned relieved from all responsibility as to the expenditure of the 
money. 

To Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Institution, I 
assigned the duty of representing it in the Government board of exhib- 
itors. He has with much energy devoted his time and thoughts to the 
work, and has prepared a report, a copy of which is herewith presented, 
of what has been done on the part of the Institution to carry out the 
intention of Congress. 

The results of the operations of the Institution in connection with 
the Centennial Exhibition will probably have a much greater efiect 
on the future of the establishment than is at first sight apparent. The 
large number of specimens which have been collected by the several 
Departments of Government and by the Institution itself in view of this 
Exhibition will greatly increase the contents of the National Museum, and 
if we add to these the specimens which will be presented by foreign 
powers, of which we have already had intimations, the number will be 
swelled to an extent far beyond the capacity of the present buihliug to 
contain them, and an additional edifice will be required for their accom- 
modation. 

In the consideration of this matter, the questions will arise whether 
the building required shall consist of an extension of the present Smith- 
sonian edifice, or an entirely separate building ; and these questions will 
involve another, viz, whether it is advisable to continue, at least with- 
out some modification, the connection which now exists between the 
Smithsonian Institation and the National Museum. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

111 regard to tlie first question, I may be allowed to say tliat as the 
Smithsonian Institution was coini)elle(l by an act of Congress to erect 
the present building, which has cost in all nearly $500,000, principally tor 
the accommodation of the National Museum, it would now be manifestly 
unjust to the former establishment to transfer the s[)ecimens, as has 
been proposed, from the present editice to the new building conteuii)lated 
for the accommodation of the National Library. The plan, therefore, 
which, in my opinion, should be adopted is for the Government to take 
entire possession of the present editice, making such additions to it from 
time to time as would be required for the care and exhibition of the 
increasing collections, and to rei)ay the Smithsonian lustitution for at 
least a portion of the cost of the building, the latter to erect a sepa- 
rate edifice in the vicinity, better suited to its wants, with a portion 
of the money thus repaid, the remainder being added to the principal 
of the Smithson fund. 

In regard to the second question, whether the connection which now 
exists between the National Museum and the Smithsonian Institution 
should continue as it is without modification, I would say that it is 
desirable that a more definite distinction between the t^vo establishments, 
if not an entire separation, should be made. 

According to the existing arrangement, it is necessary that the Insti- 
tution should api)ly to Congress every year for an appropriation lor the 
support of the museum, and it is therefore presented to the world as a 
suppliant for perpetual aid, whereas, for carrying out the legitimate ob- 
jects of the bequest, no annual appropriation is necessary from the public 
Treasury; for although more than one-half of the whole income of the 
Smithson bequest has been devoted to a museum and other local ob- 
jects, it has succeeded (through its researches, its publications, and 
its exchanges) in establishing a reputation as extensive as the civilized 
world ; and I doubt not, from the disposition which Congress has pre- 
viously shown to faithfully discharge the duty which it has devolved 
upon itself in accepting the guardianship of a trust for the benefit of 
mankind, it will not refuse, when the public finances are in a better 
condition, to repay to the Smithson fund at least a portion of the amount 
which, through a misapprehension of the will of the founder, has been 
devoted to the National Museum, and also to make such separate pro- 
vision for the maintenance of the latter establishment as will obviate 
the necessity of a constant appeal to Congress, on the part of the Insti- 
tution, for aid not necessary for its own operations. 

Furthermore, the museum is destined to an extension far beyond its 
present magnitude. It is an object of much interest to all who visit the 
National Capital, and is of great value as exhibiting the natural re- 
sources of the country, as well as a means of public education; and as 
Smithson intended the Institution founded by his bequest as a monu- 
ment to himself, since he gave it his own name, it is not proper that it 
should be merged in any establishment of the Government, nor, on the 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

other haud, is the Government called upon to make annual appropria- 
tions for the advance of science to be credited to an establishment founded 
by an individual to perpetuate his own memory. The Smithson fund 
should be exclusively devoted to the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men in the manner best calculated to produce the desired effect, 
and its operations should be as little complicated as possible with those 
of Government establishments. 

FINANCES. 

The following is a statement of the condition of the funds at the 
beginning of the year 187G : 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1846 $515, 1G9 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1807 26, 210 63 



Total bequest of Smithson 541, 379 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, de- 
rived from savings of income and increase in value of 

investments 108,620 37 

Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of 
Carlisle, Pa., February 24, 1874 1, 000 00 



Total permanent Smithsou fund in the Treasury of 
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., 

payable semi-annually in gold 651, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, 
viz : consolidated bonds, $58,700 ; deferred certificates, 
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total $88,125.20, 

BOW valued at 42, 000 00 

Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning 

of the year 1876 for current expenses 20, 555 83 

Amount due from First National Bank, Washington, 
$2,056.23, (present value unknown.) 

Total Smithsou funds January 20, 1876 713, 555 82 

The receipts during the year were $51,388.20, and the expenditures 
$46,809.98, leaving a balance of $4,578.22 to be added to the balance 
on hand at the beginning of the year 1875. 

The interest on the Ilamilton bequest has been received from Feb- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11 

ruary 24, 1874, to December 31, 1875, amonuting to $118.49, wliicli uill 
be expended iu accordauce with the will of the douor. 

The interest on the Virginia bonds collected during the year amounted 
to $4,750.11. 

It was stated in the hist report that at the time of the suspension of 
the First iSTational Bank of Washington, (lOtli September, 1873,) in 
which the current funds had been deposited l\y direction of the board, 
there were $8,224.87 to the credit of the Institution. The following divi- 
dends have been received on this deposit : November 11, 1873, 30 i)er 
cent.; on the 7th April, 1874, 20 per cent. ; on the 5th May, 1875, 10 
per cent.; and on the 27th December, 1875, 15 per cent., or a total of 
75 per cent., or $0,168.(14, leaving a balance still due of $2,050.23. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz: the Con- 
tributions TO Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and 
the Annual Eeports. The first consist of memoirs containing posi- 
tive additions to science resting on original research, and which are 
generally the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in 
some way, rendered assivstance. The Miscellaneous Collections are 
composed of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of 
natural history, meteorology, &c., and are designed especially to induce 
individuals to engage iu these studies as specialties. The Aunual 
Eeports, besides an account of the operations, ex[)enditures, and con- 
dition of the Institution, contain translations from works not generally 
accessible to American students, reports of lectures, extracts from cor- 
respondence, &c. 

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu- 
tion of the several publications of the Institution : 

1st. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which 
in return give com[)lete series of their publications to the Institutiou. 

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata- 
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate 
volumes. 

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their 
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to 
their organization and history. 

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of 
all documents published under their authority. 

5th. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes, 
especially if no other copies are given in the same place; and to smaller 
libraries where a large district would bo otherwise nnsupplied. 

Gth. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of i)articu- 
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as 
relate to their respective objects. 

7th. The Annual Eeports are presented to the meteorological observ- 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections, 
aud to persons engaged in special scientific research. 

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter 
which requires much care and judicious selection, the great object 
being to make known to the world the truths which may result from 
the expenditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose, the principal 
class of publications, namely, the Contributions, must be so distributed 
as to be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this will 
evidently be to large central libraries. 

The volumes of Contributions are presented to institutions on the 
express condition that, while they are carelully preserved, they shall be 
accessible at all times to students and others who may desire to consult 
them, aud be returned to the Institution in case the establishments to 
which they are presented at any time cease to exist. These works, it 
must be recollected, are not of a popular character, but require pro- 
found study to fully understaud them; they are, however, of importance 
to the professional teacher and the popular expounder of science. They 
contain materials from which general treatises on special subjects may 
be elaborated. 

The publications of the Institution during the past year have been 
less in number than in preceding years, but this has not been on account 
of want of materials, but because most of the resources of the Institu- 
tion have been devoted to the completion of two volumes of the quarto 
series, which are nearly ready for the binder, one of which will be cred- 
ited to 1875 and the other to 1876. 

The twentieth volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 
will consist entirely of the discussion of a series of tabular results relative 
to the '^Wijids of the Glohe,^^ prepared at the expense of the Institution 
by the late Prof. James H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, and 
completed by his son. Prof. Selden J. Coffin, with the assistance of Dr. 
Alex. J. Wceikof, of the Imperial Geographical Society of Kussia. 

The twenty-first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge will be made up of the following jiapers, viz: 

Statement and Exposition of Certain Harmonies of the Solar System. 
By Prof. Stephen Alexander, of the College of New Jersey. 4to. 104 
pp. 

On the General Integrals of Planetary Motion. By Simon Newcomb, 
professor of mathematics, United States Navy. 4to. 40 pp. 

The tlaidah Indians of Queen Charlotte's Island, British Columbia, 
with a brief description of their carvings, tattoo designs, &c. By 
James G. Swan, Port Town send, Wash. Ter. 4to. 22 pp. 7 plates. 

Tables, Distribution, and Variations of the Atmospheric Temperature 
in the United States and some adjacent parts of America. Collected 
by the Smithsonian Institution and discussed under the direction of 
Joseph Henry, Secretary. By Charles A. Schott, assistant United States 
Coast Survey. 4to. pp. 360. 9 diagrams, 2 plates, 3 charts. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

These papers have all been described iu previous reports, and, with 
the exception of the last, that on Teui})eratures, have been distributed 
separately to individuals and institutions especially interested in the 
subjects to which they relate. 

The publication of the Antiquities of Tennessee, mentioned in pre- 
vious rei)orts, has been deferred in order to give the author an opportu- 
nity of revising the work and abridging it by omitting a large amount 
of bibliographical matter which could scarcely be published under the 
title of contributions to knowledge, since it is already in print. The 
illustrations, however, for the work have been engraved, and it will be 
put to press as soon as the revision is completed. 

The engravings for the work on Lucernaria, by the late Prof. H. 
J. (Jlark, have been completed, with the exception of one plate, which 
was so badly executed that it was thought necessary to reject it. As 
soon as this is satisfactorily engraved, the work will be put to press and 
will form a part of the Contributions to Knowledge of the next year. 

In the report for 1872 is given an account of a series of investigations 
then in progress in regard to the Tides. Beside the labor expended in 
this work in the line of higher mathematics, it involved arithmetical 
computations of a very laborious character, the expense of which was to 
be defrayed by the Institution. This work has been found of so much 
practical importance that it has been adopted as a part of the investi- 
gations of the Coast Survey. In this case, as iu many others, the Insti- 
tution has inaugurated valuable investigations, which have subsequently 
been carried on by other means. This is in accordance with the estab- 
lished usages of the Institution, to do nothing with its funds which can 
be equally well done through ether agencies. 

Of the octavo series or " Miscellaneous Collections," the Monograph of 
Ameri(!an Wasps, prepared by Professor de Saussure, of Geneva, Switz- 
erland, has been completed and is nearly ready for distribution. A lull 
account of it has been given in previous reports. It forms an octavo of 
408 pages, and will doubtless be considered a valuable addition to the 
sources of knowledge of the natural history of this country. 

Another number of the series of Miscellaneous Collections, published 
during the past year, is a Catalogue of the Fishes of the East Coast of 
North America. By Dr. Theodore Gill. It was pre[>ared and pul)- 
ished at first as an appendix to the report of the United States Com- 
missionerof Fish and Fisheries for 1871-'72; but, on account of the many 
calls for it, and the fact that the work was prepared at the Institution, 
and the copies of the Government edition having been exhausted, it was 
thought advisable to strike off a new edition from the stereotype plates 
and incorporate it in the series of Miscellaneous Collections. It forms 
an octavo ])amphlet of 54 [)ages. 

The Botanical Index, a work mentioned in previous reports, is still in 
the course of preparation. It will be of much importance in enabling 
the botanist to find, amid the various reports of surveys made under the 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

directiou of the United States Goverument and other sources of infor- 
mation, an account of tlie various plants existing in tiiis country. The 
work will be prosecuted as rapidly as the time which can be devoted to 
it by Prof. Sereno Watson, who has it in charge, will permit; 184 
pages havi.ig already been stereotyped. The cost of its i)reparation has 
been defrayed by contributions from the principal botanists of the United 
States, a fact which sufhciently indicates its value. 

Another publication made during 1875 belongs to the Miscellaneous 
Collections, and is the fourth of the Toner Lecture Series. It is on ''A 
Study of the Nature and Mechanism of Fever," by Horatio C. Wood, 
M. D., of Philadelphia, and contains a series of original experiments and 
observations on the subject. 

The phenomena of fever, according to the author, will be found 
to be capable of being grouped in three sets: first, acceleration 
of the beats of the heart and disturbance of the circulation ; second, 
nervous disturbance; third, elevation of bodily temperature. It is the 
opinion of the author that the first two are merely secondary and depend 
upon the third ; i. e., the essential phenomenon of fever is elevation of 
temperature. It forms a pamphlet of 48 pages, and has been extensively 
called for by the medical profession. 

In order to assist in defraying the expense of the publication of the 
Toner Lectures, a charge is made of 25 cents for each number. As an 
answer to many inquiries, it may be stated in this place that the second 
lecture of the series has not yet been published, the Institution having 
failed to receive the manuscript from the author. 

The preparation of the tables of the "Constants of Nature" has been 
in part interrupted, by the appointment of the principal author, F. W. 
Clarke, to the professorship of chemistry in the Cincinnati University, 
all liis time having been absorbed in the prej)aration of his course of 
instruction. He has, however, resumed his labors on the constants, and 
will probably furnish us during 1876 with another installment of materials 
for the extension of the tables. There has been a large and increasing 
demand for this work, which is of much importance to the analytical 
chemist iu facilitating his investigations. 

During the past year another series of j)ublications, which will form 
a part of the Miscellaneous Collections, has been commenced. It is enti- 
tled " Bulletin of the National Museum," and is intended to illustrate 
the collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United 
States, and constituting the National Museum, of which the Smithsonian 
Institution is the custodian. Of this series two numbers have been 
issued in octavo form, printed at the Government Printing-OfiBce, by au- 
thority of the honorable Secretary of the Interior. 

The first number is a check -list of North American Batrachia and Rep- 
tilia, with a systematic list of the higher groups, and an essay on geograi)h- 
ical distribution, based on the specimens contained iu the United States 
National Museum, by Prof Edw. D. Cope. It is a contribution to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

North American Horpctolouy, uiulertjiketi some years ago, at the re- 
quest of the Institution. The materials which have been accumulating 
in the National Museum offer great advantages for the investigation of 
the anatomical structure, variation of specific cliaracters, and geo- 
graphical distribution of animals. These subjects are especially eluci- 
dated by the study of batrachians and reptiles, since these animals are 
especially susceptible to effects from physical influences, and are una- 
ble, like birds and mammals, to escape these by extended migrations. 
Their habitats, therefore, express the simplest relations of life to the spe- 
cial conditions under which it exists. The great number of specimens 
in the National Museum enables the investigator to discover the range 
of variations of a given species, and to reduce to the rank of varieties 
many which have been supposed to be distinct species — the definition 
of species being siuiply a number of individuals having physical pecu- 
liarities belonging to them alone, and at the same time found in all. 
Nothing is more diflicult than to divide the flora or fauna of the world 
into distinct species, having the above characteristics, since, passing 
from one locality to another of varying physical conditions, the varia- 
tions in form and character are so gradual that it is almost impossible 
to say where the line of demarkation shall be placed. 

In the investigation of cold-blooded North American vertebrata. Pro- 
fessor Cope has found that many which have been regarded as se[>arate 
species are merely geographical varieties. Bulletin No. 1 is divided 
into three parts. 

Part I consists of an arrangement of the families and higher divi- 
sions of the batrachia and reptilia provisionally adopted by the Insti- 
tution. 

Part II is a check-list of the species of batrachia and reptilia of the 
nearctic or North American realm. 

Part III relates to the geographical distribution of the vertebrata of 
the nearctic realm with especial reference to the batrachia and reptilia, 
and is divided into eleven sections. 

Life in different regions of the earth presents marked peculiarities, 
depending in a great measure upon the geographical and topographical 
relations of the continents. The districts thus marked out are the Aus- 
tralian, the neotropical, the nearctic, or North American, the Ethiopian, 
the PaUeological, and the Palajartic, and to these the name of "realms" 
has been given. The total number of species of vertebrata found in the 
North American realm is 2,L*49, which is below the truth, since many of 
the fishes, both of the ocean and of the fresh waters, remain undescribed. 
It is more difficult to give the number of species of the inferior divis- 
ions of the animal kingdom. It is stated that 8,000 species of cole- 
opterous insects have been discovered in the same region, and that this 
is probably about two-thirds of the whole. Probably 50,000 is below 
the mark as an estimate of the number of species of insects. In relation 
to other realms, several species of vertebrata are common to our north- 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

eru regions and Euro])e and Asia. Thus the wolf, fox, ermine, and per- 
haps the beaver extend tbrongbout the northern hemisphere. Bat few 
species are common to the nearctic and the southern neotropical realms — 
but one mammal and no reptiles, batrachians nor fresh- water fishes ex- 
tend into Brazil, but a number of birds are permanent residents through- 
out both realms. Considerable variation exists in the fauna of the sev- 
eral parts of our region, exhibiting as many as six principal subdivisions. 
The warmer regions are much richer in birds, reptiles, and insects than 
the cooler, as we advance northward many species disappear, while 
a few others are added. The natural division of the eastern part of 
the continent is in a measure dependent on the isothermal lines which 
traverse it. In accordance with this fact, the following districts of the 
eastern region have been proposed, viz : The Carolinian ; the Alle- 
ghanian ; the Canadian, and the Hudsonian. The central region is 
characterized by the general absence of forests. It presents two divis- 
ions, each peculiar in its vegetation; the division of the plains which 
extends from the eastern border to the Rocky Mountains to the 100th 
meridian, and the Kocky Mountain region itself, which extends to the 
Sierra Nevada. The former is covered with grass and is almost totally 
treeless ; the latter is covered with sage-brush. 

In regard to the batrachia and reptilia, from their small amount of 
animal heat, it follows that temperature has the greatest influence on 
their life and distribution. This is exhibited not only in multiplication 
of forms, but in the brilliancy of color. Another important influence 
in regard to these animals is the amount of terrestrial and atmospheric 
moisture. A peculiarity of cold-blooded vertehrata of arid regions is 
that by means of which they readily assume the color of the body on 
which they rest. That a prevalent color of such bodies should lead to 
a habit of preference for that color is necessary, and as such habits 
become automatic, the peruianence of the color is naturally established. 

Appended to the paper is a bibliography of works and memoirs which 
embrace discussions of systematic or distributional relations of the rep- 
tiles of North America. Those embracing descriptions of species only, 
will be added in a future publication. This number forms a pamphlet 
of lOS octavo pages, and has been distributed to the principal museums 
aiul naturalists of the world. 

The second number of the Bulletin of the National Museum is an ac- 
count of the birds of Kerguelen Island, by Dr. J. H. Kidder, Surgeon 
United States Navy, and edited by Dr. Elliott Cones. These specimens 
were collected by Dr. Kidder, surgeon and naturalist of one of the 
parties organized for observing the transit of Venus in the southern 
hemisi)here. The party to which Dr. Kidder was attached landed from 
the United States ship Swatara at the upper end of Eoyal Sound, a 
deep iudentation in the southern part of Kerguelen Island, otherwise 
known as Desolation Island, one of the most extreme islands of the 
southern hemisphcire. It is a region of almost constant precipitation, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1 7 

only twenty-seven days out of four months being recorded as without 
snow or rain, and a still smaller number of nights. The range of the 
thermometer was not far from the freezing-point, being a little below in 
September and October and a little above in November and December. 
The violent gales, which almost constantly prevailed, and which often 
arise with great suddenness, rendered it dangerous to make collections 
in small boats. The climatic conditions greatly affect the flora and 
fauna of the island, there being no trees or shrubs, no plant, indeed, 
larger than a kind of cabbage. As a consequence of this condition, 
there are no land-birds or mammals strictly indigenous, and but a single 
shore-bird. The island is of considerable size, about ninety miles long 
by fifty miles wide, and is composed of volcanic rocks. No tiying insects 
were observed except minute gnats, nor were the remains of any found 
in the stomachs of birds. But two species of vegetable-feeding birds 
were observed, all the others living exclusively on fish or marine 
invertebrata. An English party (also to observe the transit) established 
itself about fourteen miles southwest of the American station, and at 
about the same distance to the northwest was a German party, associated 
with each of which was a naturalist. 

The ornithological collections made by Dr. Kidder are believed to 
fully ind4cate the character ot the avi lauua of the locality, very few 
species having been overlooked. The specimens possess a high interest 
from the fact that they are among the rarities of American museums, 
while most of the eggs are new to collections, if not hitherto unknown 
to naturalists. " The contribution to science which the specimens repre- 
sent," says Dr. Cones, " is very ably complemented by Dr. Kidder's 
field tiotes, carefully recorded upon the spot when the impressions 
of the observer were fresh. Tbey possess a vigor and vividness not 
invariably accompanying descriptions of nature, while their entire 
trustworthiness is assured both by the character of the observer and 
by the favorable circumstances of observation." The extended bio- 
graphical sketches of the Kerguelen birds will be welcomed by ornith- 
ologists as an important and interesting contribution to the life-history 
of these imperfectly-known s])ecies. This paper forms an octavo pam- 
phlet of GO pages, and has been distributed to naturalists and museums. 

The first volume of the exploration of the Colorado River of the West 
and its tributaries, by Prof. J. W. Powell, under the direction of the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, has been published during the 
last year by the Department of the Interior. It forms a quarto volume 
of 303 pages with 80 illustrations and- a map. It gives a history of the 
explorations during the years 18G9, 1870, 1871, and 1872. The work to 
which this volume relates was origiiuUly commenced as an exploration, 
but was afterward developed into a survey embracing the geography, 
geology, ethnography, and natural history of the country. It is ex- 
pected that the results of the several investigations relative to these 
subjects, which have been intrusted to several specialists for elabora- 
S. Mis. 115 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tiou, will iu due time be pnblisbed by the General Governmeut in a 
style iu accordance with that of the present volume. The whole work 
will do honor to the a/ppreciation by the Government of scientific infor- 
ujation of this kind, as well as of the ability and perseverance of Pro- 
fessor Powell and his assistants. 

As an evidence of the estimation in which the labors of Professor 
Powell are held, it should be mentioned that he has been placed in charge 
of the second division of the geological survey of the Territories, under 
direction of the Department of the Interior, (the first division being in 
charge of Professor Haydeu,) and that the subsequent volumes of the 
series of his reports will be published by that Department. It may be 
further mentioned that Congress has not yet ordered any extra copies of 
the first volume of Powell's report ; those that have been printed have 
been published by the Interior Department. It is hoped, however, that 
Congress at its present session will order a new edition, granting a suffi- 
cient number of extra cojoies to the Smithsonian Institution to supply 
the principal public educational and scientific establishments of the 
world. 

Report. — The annual report of the operations of the Institution for 
the year 1874, was presented to Congress as usual, and au edition of 
10,500 copies printed; 2,000 of which were for the use of mefiibers of 
the House of Eepresentatives, 1,000 for the use of the Senate, and 7,500 
for distribution by the Institution. 

The appendix to the report contains translations of eulogies on La 
Place by Arago, Quetelet by Mailly, De la Eive by Dumas; a lecture 
on tides and tidal action iu harbors, by Professor Hilgard, of the Coast 
Survey; a translation of observations upon the electricity of the atmos- 
phere and the aurora borealis, by Professors Lemstriim and De la Eive; 
a translation of an article ou a dominant language for science, by Pro- 
fessor de Candolle, with notes by Dr. Gray of the British Museum ; on 
underground temperature, by Chas. A. Schott of the Coast Survey, with 
the results of Professor Everett's researches on the same subject for the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science ; on the earthquakes 
in North Carolina in 1874, by Professor du Pre, with notes by Profes- 
sor Henry ; a translation of Professor de la Eive's report on the trans- 
actions of the Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History for 1872 
and 1873; the translation of the conclusion of au extensive and impor- 
tant pai)er, by General Morin of France, on warming and ventilation, 
with numerous illustrations; and a large number of original communi- 
cations on ethnology, describing the antiquities of different i)arts of the 
United States. 

This report, as usual, has been distributed to various educational 
establish ujeuts, to the Meteorological observers, and other contributors to 
the objects of the Institution, and to such persons as have made special 
application for them in writing. 

Indian vocahularies. — During the year a number of Indian vocabula- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

ries have beeu received from diflerent persoDS engaged in explorations 
in the Territories. These have all been referred to J. II. Trumbnll, LL. 
D., of Hartford, Conn., for critical examination and arrangement for the 
press. 

A full list of all the manuscript Indian vocabularies in possession of 
the Institution will be given in a subsequent re[)ort. We hope dur- 
ing the next year to commence the publication of the extensive collec- 
tion of materials of this character, so impoitant to the labors of the 
ethnologist. 

RESEARCHES. 

Meteorology. — In the beginning of 1874 the meteorological system of 
records by voluntary observers, which had been in operation by the 
Institution for twenty-five years, was transferred to the Signal-Office of 
the War Department, under General A. J. Myer. This transfer was made 
in accordance with the general policy of the Institution, viz, that of 
abandoning any field of enterprise as soon as the work could be done as 
well through other agencies. This transfer has received the approba- 
tion of the observers generally, who, while they are now co-operating 
with the Signal-Service, still keep up a correspondence with the Institu- 
tion on subjects of general scientific interest. The meteorological system 
of the United States under General Myer is in an admirable condition. 
The total number of daily reports filed at the Office of the Chief Signal- 
Officer are now as follows: Number of daily-service simultaneous 
telegraphic reports, 109; unmler of international daily simultaneous 
reports, 2G8 ; number of reports of voluntary observers, . 393 ; number 
of reports of medical corps of the Army, 102; numlier of reports of 
medical corps of the Navy, 5; making a grand total of 877 daily reports 
received regularly for discussion. Such an extensive series of observa- 
tions, if continued for twenty years, will furnish the data for determin- 
ing the peculiar climatology of North America with a precision hitherto 
unknown in the history of meteorology. The labors of the Smithso- 
nian Institution in the line of meteorology are now principally confined 
to working up the materials in this branch of science, which it has col- 
lected during the last quarter of a century. These materials include 
not only the observations of the Institution itself, but all that could be 
obtained from other sources relative to North America, from the first 
settlement of the country down to the present time. The first work of 
this class which has beeu published is that of the rain-fall. It included 
all the materials which had been collected down to 1800. During the 
last two years preparations have been made to publish a new edition of 
this work, including the additions from new materials, and with new 
maps on a larger scale. In the preparation of this new edition we have 
received important assistance, through the politeness of General Myer, 
from the system of the Signal-Service. 

The work published by the Institution on the rain-fall of the United 
States is of great importance in relation to our agricultural resources, 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to the various engineering enterprises which are proposed from time to 
time, as well as to the manufacturing interests of the country. It is 
also intimately connected with the subject of foreet-culture, which at 
present is occupying a large share of public attention. It must be the 
basis of all the improvements which are attempted in regard to irriga- 
tion, and is of especial value in this respect to the western portion of 
the United States. 

There are two great systems of rain-bearing winds in North America; 
that from the west on our Pacific coast, which blows across the .several 
chains of mountains, constituting the western system, precipitating its 
moisture principally on the western slopes of the mountains, so that 
on the eastern sides of these mountains, as well as on the slopes and 
plains east of the Eocky Mountains, there are arid portions of scanty 
vegetation, on account of deficient moisture. How far these may be 
rendered fertile by irrigation depends upon the amount of rain-fall and 
the conformation of the surface by which the water may be utilized. 
The other system of rain-winds is from the Gulf of Mexico and the 
Atlantic. These winds blow principally in the direction of the axis of 
the Appalachian system of mountains, and consequently precipitate 
their moisture along the valleys and on both sides of the mountain 
slopes, covering the whole region with fertility. In connection with 
this subject we would commend to public attention the plan adopted 
by the State of Maine in making a hydraulic survey of the whole State, 
to ascertain the amount of water-power available for manufacturing pur- 
poses. 

In view of the limited, though in this country comparatively great, quan- 
tity of coal-power, it is our duty to use, in preference in all cases where 
it is possible, water-power, which is constantly renewed and must be con- 
tinued as long as the sun's energy elevates water Irom the surface of 
the ocean and precipitates it on the higher portions of the land. 
We have in the falls of Niagara a source of active energy, which we 
doubt not in the course of years will be utilized to an extent which shall 
affect the well-being of man in every jiart of the civilized world. The 
time of the utilization of this power will depend upon the varying price 
of coal. When this, from the constantly -increasing demand, assumes a 
certain price, water-power will more generally be resorted to and the 
large amount of energy which is now dissipated, as in the case of the 
falls of the Potomac and other rivers, will be carefully husbanded. 

The next work of the same class is tliat of the Winds of the Globe, 
comprising the results of the discussions of not only observations 
made under the direction of the Institution in the United States, but of 
those of every other part of the world of which the records were attain- 
able. This work has been prepared by the joint agency of the late Prof. 
Jas. H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, and the Smithsonian 
Institution, the former furnishing the general plan and oversight of the 
work, the latter contributing the greater part of the material and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

defraying the cost of makiug tlie reductions and numerical computa- 
tions.* This work may be considered au extension of tlie Winds of the 
il^ortliern Hemisphere, prepared by Professor Coffin, and published by 
tbe Institution in 1853. It is designed to show principally — 

First. The meau direction in which the lower currents of the atmo- 
sphere move over all jiarts of the surface of the earth. 

Second. The ratio that the progressive motion bears to the total dis- 
tance traveled. 

Third. The modification that the currents undergo in different seasons 
of the year. 

Fourth. The direction in which the forces act that produce these uiod- 
iiicatious. 

Fifth. The amount of intensity of these forces as reckoned on the 
same scale as that which determines their mean annual direction. 

Tbe data used for elucidating these points consist of series of obser- 
vations of winds made at 3,223 different stations on land and during 
numerous voyages at sea, extending from the parallel of 82° IG' north 
to beyond the parallel of 75° south latitude, altogether embracing au 
aggregate period of over eighteen thousand five hundred years. The 
wbole material is arranged in the form of tabular series, and for conve- 
nience in discussion the entire surface of the earth is divided into thirty- 
six zones by parallels of latitude drawn five degrees asunder, com- 
mencing at the North Pole and proceeding southwardly. The method 
of reduction is not that which has usually been adopted of obtaining 
the prevailing direction or the point from which the wind blows most 
frequently, but the traverse of the whole is made out in the same man- 
ner as that of a ship at sea. Suppose a particle of air to start at a given 
point and to move with unitbrm velocity for nine days, viz, from the 
northeast for a period of three days, southeast four days, ^ouih two 
days, at the end of this time the particle will be found at a certain point ; 
the distance from the starting-point and the direction of the line joining 
the ending-points will be formed by a traverse. In this way the result- 
ant direction of the wind is determined for a given place. If no deflect- 
ing force was exerted, the mean direction and relative progress of the 
wind would be the same for each month of the year; but as this is not 
the case, by comiiariug different resultants, an idea of the deflecting 
force is obtained, or, in other words, of the monsoon influence which tends 
in different seasons of the year to vary the resultant direction. 

At the time of the death of Professor Coffin in 1873, the principal ser- 
ies of tables was mainly completed, yet there were blanks left to be filled. 
The supply of these deficiencies and the preparation of the illustrative 
plates was undertaken without pecuniary compensation by his son and 
successor in Lafayette College, Prof. Selden J. Cotfin, who executed the 
Mork with a feeling of pious regard lor the menu)ry of a venerated parent, 
interest in science, and a devotion which nunits s])t'cial commendation. 

*Altogetber 80 persons were engaged in these reductions, the principal assistant ot' 
Professor Coffin being Mr. Henry Mansfield, a skilful computer. 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Iiistitutiou also availed itself of the meteorological knowledge 
and skill in investigation of Dr. Alex. Woeikof, of the Imperial Geo- 
graphical Society of Russia, during his late visit to this country, for a 
series of deductions from the tables and charts which the untimely 
death of Professor Coffin prevented him from undertaking. 

Perhaps one of the most important additions to the meteorology of 
the present day is the establishment of the dependence of the force and 
direction of the wind upon the pressure of the atmosphere at different 
points. This subject was especially studied by Professor Espy and 
Professor Coffin, in this country, and by Professor Buys Ballot, in Hol- 
land, and later by Professor Buchan, in Edinburgh. This relation may 
be expressed as follows : At the surface of the earth the wind blows from 
a region of high pressure to a rcgioii of low pressure, and is deflected to the 
right oiving to the rotation of the earth ; while in the region above a reverse 
icind, deflected to the left, is talcing place. Professor Buchan has rendered 
great service to meteorology by extending this law to the general phe- 
nomena of the winds of the globe. For example, during the winter 
months the land becomes cold by radiation below the temperature of 
the sea, and, consequently, the air is more condensed over the former 
than over the latter, the barometer stands higher, and currents of air 
in accordance with the law in question tend to pass at the surface of 
the earth from the land to the ocean, and in an opposite direction 
above, while the reverse phenomena take place in summer. 

It is fully established that there are on the surface of the earth five 
systems of winds, which roughly correspond with the zones of climate 
and temperature, and that the boundaries of these systems vary in lati- 
tude with the change in declination of the sun. In the torrid zone the 
resultant of the wind is from an easterly direction toward a variable 
middle line, giving rise to Avhat are called the trade-winds. In the tem- 
perate zones the average direction of the wind is from the west ; and 
again, in the arctic and antarctic regions, the resultant is from an east- 
erly direction ; and, furthermore, the limits of these systems of winds 
are connected with regions of high or low barometer. Thus, in the equa- 
torial regions, the barometer above the middle line is below the average 
height of 30 inches, while along the northern and southern limit of this 
region there is a belt of high barometer, and again on the northern and 
southern limit of the winds of the temperate zone there is a belt of low 
barometer. The direction of the wind in these several regions and the 
belt of high and low barometer are rei'crred to the unequal action of the 
heat of the sun in rarefying the air at the equator, causing an indrawing 
current at the surface of the earth, which takes a westerly direction on 
account of the revolution of the earth on its axis, and a current toward 
each pole, which, from the same reason, has a direction from the west. 
The equatorial current, cooling above, descends by its superior weight 
at the northern limit of the trade-winds, producing the belt of high 
barometer, from which, in opposite directions, two currents move, one 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

returning toward tlie equator, forming- tlie trade-wind, and the other, 
proceeding northward, having a westerly component by the revolution 
of the earth, tends to move in a direction from the west. It is probable, 
however, that a portion of the upper wind from the equator flows entirely 
to the pole, and there, by cooling, descends, consequently having a north- 
easterly direction. The point of union of these two currents produces 
an upward motion, again giving rise to the northern belt of low^er 
barometer. . 

This sketch of the direction of the wind at the surface of the earth is 
shown by Professor Coffin to exist by deductions from actual observa- 
tions, while it is also proved by Professor Ferrel, of the Coast Survey, 
as a mathematical deduction from the theory of a fluid subjected to dif- 
ference of temperatures at diflerent parts on the surface of a rotating 
globe. 

The material which Dr. Woeikof has supplied to this work consists 
in an elaborate comparison of the actual winds, as tabulated from the 
reductions of Professor Coffin, with the varying pressure of the atmos- 
phere at different seasons of the year due to the relative variation of the 
heat of the land and of the sea, on the principle adopted by Buchau. 
The result of his labor gives a satisfactory account in all cases where 
the pressure has been determined of the perturbations in the direction 
and intensity of the wind in different seasons of the year; and is a val- 
uable first approximation to a full analysis of the causes of the com- 
plex phenomena of the local and periodical changes in the atmosphere. 

The results given in the tables of the whole world are represented and 
illustrated by twenty-six plates drawn by Prof. S. J. Coffin, and en- 
graved by Henry Chandler, of Buffalo, N. Y. These plates present, at 
a single view, the relation of the diflerent parts of the same system of 
winds to each other and to the different systems of the globe. For the 
illustration of the deductions of Dr. Woeikof, two plates are rei)i()duced 
from the paper of Professor Buchan in the Transactions of the Iloyal 
Society of Edinburgh. We trust this work w'ill be accepted by the 
scientific world as a monumeiit to the memory of Professor Coffin, and 
as an illustration of the judicious policy of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The extended series of tables relative to the Temperature of the 
United States which has been in progress of preparation for a number 
of years, is now nearly through the press, and will be ready for distri- 
bution in the course of 1870. 

This memoir contains the results of all observations to the end of the 
year 1870, from the following sources : 

1st. The registers of the Smithsonian Institution, embracing upward 
of 300 folio volumes. 

2d. The joint publications of the Institution, the Patent-Office, and 
the Dei)artment of Agriculture. 

3d. All th(» i)ublications and unpublished records of the meteorolog- 
ical system of the United States Army. 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

4tb. The records of the United States Lake Survey under the 
Engineer Department of the United States Army. 

5th. The records of the United States Coast Survey under the Treas- 
ury Department. 

6th. The volumes compiled by Dr. F. B. Hough from observations 
made under the direction of the Regents of the University of the State 
of New York. 

7th. The records made in Pennsylvania under the direction of the 
Franklin Institute of Philadelphia. 

8th. The transactions of various societies and periodical publications. 

All the material collected was first classified, and a series of tables of 
temperature in detail constructed, and from these were deduced the con- 
solidated tables of average temperature. The first of these series, owing 
to its great bulk, must at present remain in manuscripts; it can, how- 
ever, at any time be consulted at the Institution. The series of tables 
which is now about to be published consists of average temi)eratures, 
and is sufficient for the study of the climate of the United States gener- 
ally, or for any particular part of it, as far as it depends upon tempera- 
ture. The whole work was done under the superintendence of Mr. 
Charles A. Schott, of the United States Coast Survey, who has also 
given special attention to the revision of the accuracy of the computa- 
tions. The character of Mr. Schott for scientific knowledge, sagacity, 
and skill, as exhibited in the previous publications on meteorology by 
the Institution, gives assurance that the present work on the temperature 
is a valuable contribution to knowledge. 

Perhaps the best idea of the character and extent of the work can be 
given in a brief space by the following extract from the table of con- 
tents : 

Section I. — General remarks and explanations of tabular results. 
Special table of corrections for daily variation of temperature in each 

month and the year, for every hour and for various combinations of 

hours. 
Tables of mean temperature for each month, season, and the year, at 

various stations, principally in North America. 
Graphical representation and explanation of the isothermal charts. 
Deductions from the charts of the distribution of the mean annual 

temperature, and of the distribution of the temperature during the 

winter and the summer seasons. 
Section II. — Discussion of the daily fluctuation of the atmospheric tem- 
perature. 
Times of sunrise and sunset in difl'erent latitudes and for every tenth 

(lay in each month. 
Tables of bi-hourly, houily, and semi-hourly mean temperatures for 

each month and the year at various places in North America. 
Tables of differences from the mean of the day, of bi-hourly, hourly, and 

semi hourly mean temperatures for each month and the year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

Systematic representatiou of tbe daily liuctuatiou of the temperature, 

by means of a periodic function. 
Analysis of the daily fluctuation. 
Variability of the temperature at any hour of the day from the normal 

value of that hour. 
Section III. — The annual fluctuation of the temperature expressed in 

terms of a periodic function. 
Table of computed annual fluctuation of the temperature at forty-six 

stations. 
Discussion of the results for dates of meau annual values and for 

maxima and minima; and annual range in connection with the geo- 
graphical distribution of the stations. 
Examination into alleged interruption in the regularity of the annual 

fluctuation at certain epochs, with tables of temperature of each day 

of the year, deduced from a series of years. 
Investigation of the variability of the temi)erature of any one daj* in a 

series of years. 
Inequality in the epoch of the minima and maxima of the annual 

fluctuation. 
Tables of observed extremes of temperatures, arraisged by months, for 

a selected number of stations. 
Analysis of tabular results for greatest heat and greatest cold with 

regard to geographical distribution. 
Extreme annual range of temperature and monthly absolute variability; 

exhibition of the law of annual distribution. 
Tables of the meau annual temperature, principally in the United 

States, for a succession of years (rom the earliest records to the close 

of the year 1870. 
Investigation of the secular variation of the annual meau temperature, 

and of the permanency of the climate. 
Comparison of the secular variation of the temperature with the varia- 
tions in the frequency of the solar spots. 
Comparison of the secular variation in the temperature and rain -fall in 

the United States. 
Comparison of the secular variation in the temperature with the aver- 
age annual direction of the wind. 
Eange of variability in the secular variation of the annual temperature. 
Secular variation in the annual minima and maxima, compared with tlie 

variation in the annual means. 

The tables in the first section contain the number and name of each 
station, its latitude and longitude, its elevation above the sea, its mean 
temperature for each month and for each season, and lor the whole 
year, the extent of the series, the observing hours, and the name of the 
observer. In cases where observations were made at hours of the day dif- 
fering from those of the general series, they were reduced to uniformity 
by corrections derived from tables of observations made at each hour of 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the tweuty-fonr, coutiuuously for a number of years. Sucli tables were 
furnished by the observations at Toronto, Mohawk, New Haven, and 
PhiUidelphia. The tables of this section will be of much importance to 
those interested in meteorology, as furnishing data for the special cli- 
matology of the various portions of the United States. The institution 
has been frequently applied to by State authorities, agricultural and 
medical societies and others, for information as to the temperature of 
peculiar localities, which can now be more readily supplied than before " 
the tables were printed. 

The tables of the second section relate to the daily fluctuation of the 
temperature during the year. The regular variations of the tempera- 
ture due to changes in the sun's altitude and the length of the day are 
affected by perturbations from day to day on account of aqueous vapor 
suspended in the atmosphere, by the serenity or cloudiness of tbe sky, 
and by the ditectiou of the wind. As a general rule the maximum heat 
occurs some time after the sun has reached his greatest altitude, and the 
greatest cold somewhere between midnight and sunrise. Even in mid- 
winter in high latitudes, during the continued absence of the sun, these 
periodic fluctuations are still perceptible ; which may be accounted for 
by supposing waves of heat transported from more southern regions 
where the sun still rises above the horizon. 

The tables of the third section relate to the annual fluctuations of the 
temperature and the perturbations from the curve derived from obser- 
vations made during a series of years. These are of importance in de- 
termining questions as to the secular changes in climate. 

The w^ork is illustrated by three charts of isothermal spaces, one for 
summer, another for winter, and the third for the year ; also two plates 
and a number of wood-cuts. 

The next series of meteorological observations which remains to be 
discussed and analyzed is that which relates to the pressure of the atmos- 
phere, which, it is evident from what has been said in regard to the 
winds, is an important element in determining the peculiar climatology 
of the North American Continent and its relation to that of the other 
l)arts of the world. This work will be commenced during the latter part 
of the present year. 

Another work will be continued — that on the collation and discussion 
of the observations on thunder-storms and other casual phenomena. The 
observations in regard to these phenomena have been copied from the 
original records and arranged in tables previous to their discussion. 

The miscellaneous work done by our computers in regard to meteor- 
ology during the year 1875 is as follows : 

Manuscript temperature tables were prepared for the first seven months 
of 1871 and for March, 1872, these records not having been accessible 
before. Many additions were made to the general tables from new" ma- 
terial sent by observers and others. The collection and tabulation of 
the observations for rain-fall at the Smithsonian stations for 1871 has 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



27 



beeu completed, and also for those at the Signal-Service stations by per- 
uiissiou of General Myer, Chief Signal-Oflicer, from 1872 to 1874 inclu- 
sive, also for Army stations for the last six mouths of 1874, and for 
Canadian stations from 1872 to 1874 complete. 

For the exhibition of the results of the meteorological labors of the 
Institution at the Centennial Exhibition, an outline map IG by 12 feet has 
been prepared. This map will be of use to the lecturer and to the different 
•departments of the Government iu exhibiting on a large scale the results 
of various statistical inquiries. Already a number of different parties 
have applied for copies, for which such a charge will be made as to con- 
siderably diminish the cost to the Institution of the original production 
of the map. 



INTERNATIONAL LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

This system has beeu prosecuted during the past year with unabated 
energy, and the results have been commensurate with the labor ex- 
liended. As an evidence of the high estimation in which this branch of 
the operations of the Institution is regarded, as well as to give proper 
credit to the parties svho have transmitted free of cost the packages of 
the Institution, we reprint, as usual, the following list of their names : 



Cunard Steamship Comiiany. 

Anchor Steamship Company. 

Pacitic Mail Steamship Company. 

Panama Eailroad Company. 

Pacific Steam Navigation Compa- 
ny. 

Kew York and Mexico Steamship 
Company. 

New York and Brazil Steamship 
Company. 



North German Lloyd Steam shij) 
Company. 

Hamburg American Packet Com- 
pany. 

French Transatlantic Company. 

North Baltic Lloyd Steamship 
Company. 

Inman Steamship Company. 



The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the above- 
mentioned companies for their enlightened liberality. 

It should also be mentioned that Messrs. Prin, Trowand «& Co., of New 
York, agents of the Atlas Steamship Company, have made a very lib- 
eral concession to the Institution in the reduction of charges for trans- 
mission of ])arcels to the West Indies; one dollar in gold being charged 
for any package not exceeding three cubic feet in measurement, instead 
of the usual charge, three times this sum. 

The following are the foreign centers of reception and distribution of 
the Smithsonian exchanges : 

London — William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand. 

Paris — G. Bossange, 16 rue du 4 Septembre. 

Lei[)sic — Dr. Felix Fliigel, 41) Sidonien Strasse. 

St. Petersburg — L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place. 

Amsterdam — F. Muller. Ueerengracht kk, No. 130. 



28 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 



Milan — U. Hocpli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia. 

Harlem — Prof. Baumliauer. 

Christiaiiia — Eoyal University of Norway. 

Stockholm — Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 

Copenhagen — Koyal Danish Society. 

Lisbon — Royal Academy of Sciences. 

Madrid — Royal Academy of Sciences. 
. Havana — Dr. Felipe Poey. 

Santiago — University of Chili. 

Mexico — Mexican Society of Geography and Statistics 

Montreal — Geological Survey of Canada. 

The packages of the Institution for the West Indies have been kindly 
forwarded by Mr. Thomas Bland, of New York, and those for Turkey 
and some other points by the American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions, Boston. 

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments with 
■which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other words, 
to which it sends publications and from which it receives others in re- 
turn : 

Foreign Institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. 



29 

13 

6 

110 

27 

1 

8 

3 

1 

9 

3 

5 

1 

28 

1 

2 

8 

290 

Germany 642 

Greece 

G roa t Britain and Ireland 

Holland 

Iceland 

Italy 



Australia 

Argentine Republic . 

Algeria 

Belgium 

British America 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British Guiana 

Central America 

Chili 

Colombia 

Capo Colony 

China 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

Ecuador 

Egypt 

France 



8 

350 

65 

2 

177 



India 

Java 

Japan 

Liberia 

Mexico 

Mauritius 

New Zealand 

Norway 

Polynesia 

Portugal 

Philippine Islands, 

Peru 

Russia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

St. Helena 

Syria 

Turkey 

Venezuela 

West Indies 

General 



31 

5 

4 

1 

14 

4 

14 

24 

2 

21 

2 

3 

161 

14 

21 

68 

1 

11 

2 

7 
6 



Total 2,207 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 29 

Statistics of exchanges sent during the last seven years. 





1869. 


1870. 


1871. 


1872. 


1873. 


1874. 

131 

933 
27,990 


1875. 


No. of boxos 


112 

1,033 

23, 376 


121 

1, 189 

31,383 


108 

772 

28, 9.30 


179 

954 
26, 850 


196 

1,476 

44, 236 


208 


Bulk in cubic feet 

Weight 


1, 503 
45 300 







We may also mention as an evidence of tbe bigh appreciation of the 
character of the Smithsonian exchanges, that the packages bearing the 
marks of the Institution are admitted free of duty and without exam- 
ination into all foreign ports. 

The value of this system, as a means of advancing civilization, can 
scarcely be too highly estimated. Accounts of all the results of scien- 
titic investigations in the old and new world are through it interchanged, 
and men in both hemispheres are rendered eflicient co-operators in the 
great work of enlarging the bounds of knowledge, and thus one great 
imj^ediment to human advancement, that of isolation, is, in a measure, 
overcome. 

The system has now become so extended that it requires the constant 
attention of several assistants and a large amount of correspondt^nce. 
It has, however, been reduced to such general regulations as usually to 
prevent loss or the misseuding of packages. It has happened in a few 
cases that loss has occurred on account of shipwreck, and among these 
we have to mention that of the four large cases shipped from Germany 
in December last, on the Deutschland, three of which contained recent 
publications of German learned societies, and the fourth specimens of 
ornithology for the National Museum. The latter alone was insured. 
In connection with this loss we have received the following exjjressioD 
of regret from Dr. Felix Fliigel, the warm friend and for more than 
twenty years efficient agent of the Institution : 

" It is now a disagreeaWe thoiight that I hurried the transmission of the last case as 
much as possible, in order to -insure its being forwarded by the unfortunate vessel. I 
feel quite sorry that I cannot any longer boast that not a single leaf intrusted to my 
care for j'our Institution had been lost." 

During the past year 4,G61 packages, each containing several articles, 
have been received from abroad for distribution to institutions and indi- 
viduals in this country. 

Two hundred and eight boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each, with 
a total weight of 45,300 pounds, were sent abroad by the Institution 
during the year. The total number of separate parcels contained in 
these boxes was about 12,000. 

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have 
been adopted : 
1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong 



30 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or 
otherwise. 

2. The address of the institution or individual, for whom the package 
is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the 
sender on one corner of the same. 

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk. 

4. A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con- 
tents, must accompany them. 

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel, 
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package. 

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and 
other expenses. 

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed 
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is 
still better, through the mail, to the sender. 

Should returns be desired for what is sent, the fact should be ex- 
I)licitly stated on the list of the contents of the package. Much disap- 
pointment is frequently expressed at the absence of any return in kind for 
transmissions f but unless these are specifically asked for, they will fail iu 
many instances to be made. It will facilitate the labors of the Institu- 
tion very greatly if the number corresponding to the several addresses 
in the Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face of each 
parcel ; and for this purpose a co])y of the catalogue will be forwarded 
to all who apply for it. 

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission 
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk. 

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with, the parcels will not 
be forwarded from the Institution; and, on the failure to comply with 
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sendee for cor- 
rection. 

In regard to exchanges we have to state, at the request of the Society 
Americaine de France, 20 liuc Madame, Paris, that it will gladly exchange 
its publications with societies esi)ecially devoted to the archaeology of the 
New World. We are also requested to announce that the Koyal Society 
of New South Wales desires to enter into correspondence with similar 
scientific societies and institutions in other countries, for the purpose of 
making a friendly interchange of information and publications. The 
annual transactions published by this society consist of original scientific 
articles, which usually relate to the geography, geology, mineralogy, 
natural history, meteorology, and general resources of the colony of 
New South Wales. 

The materials of exchanges are in some cases furnished by special 
acts of Congress. As an example of this, we may state that at the 
last session it was ordered that one thousand copies of the Report of the 
Geological Survey of the Territories, by Dr. Hayden, for the year 1873, 
be furnished to the Smithsonian Institution. These will be distributed 
to foreign societies during the coming year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

EXCHANGE OF GOVERKIMENT DOCUMENTS. 

In 18G7 a proposition was made to tbc Institution, by the Libnirian 
of Congress, relative to establishing a system of exchange of ofiicial 
documents between the Government of the United States and those of 
foreign nations. 

The object in this was to secure regularly and systematically all 
reports and other documents relative to the legislation, jurisprudence, 
statistics, internal economy, technology, &c., of all nations, so as to 
place the material at the command of the committees and members of 
Congress, heads of bureaus, &c. 

In accordance with this, a circular* was addressed to the different 
governments having relations with the United States, ior the purpose 
of ascertaining their views as to such an exchange. 

The following governments responded favorably : France, Belgium, 
Great Britain, Switzerland, Spain, Costa Eica, jSTetherlands, Chili, Den- 
mark, Argentine Confederation, United States of Colombia, Wiirtem- 
burg, Finland, Hamburg, Baden, Sweden, Victoria. The latter gov- 
ernment forwarded a collection of books at ouce, which was placed in 
the Library of Congress. 

At the Thirty-ninth session of Congress, the following resolution was 
adopted : 

[Ko. 55.] A Kesolution to provide for the exchange of certain public doGuments. 

JResoIvcd by the Senate and House of Eepresentatires of the United States of America, in 
Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all documents hereafter printed by order of 
either house of Congress, and fifty copies additional of all documents printed in excess 
of the usual number, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by any De- 
partment or Bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal of the Joint Com- 
mittee on the Library, who shall exchange the same, through the agency of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, for such works published in foreign countries, and especially by foreign 
governments, as may be deemed by said committee an equivalent ; said works to be 
deposited in the Library of Congress. 

Approved March 2, 1867. 

In consequence of an oversight in not ordering the Public Printer to 
furnish the necessary extra copies of public documents for this purpose, 
the Library Committee could not carry out the foregoing resolution, and 
at the ensuing session. Fortieth Congress, the following additional reso- 
lution was adopted : 

[Xo. 72.] A Kesolution to carry into effect the resolution approved March two, eighteen Imiulrcd and 
sixty-seven, providing for tlio exchange of certain public documents. 

Besolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Slates of .Innricayin 
Conyress assembled. That the Congressional Printer, whenever he shall be so directed 
by the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and he hereby is, directed to i)rint fifty 
copies, in addition to the regular number, of all documents hereafter i^rinted by order 
of either house of Congress, or by order of any Department or Bureau of tlie Govern- 
ment, and whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library, 

* Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1807, page 71. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

one hundred copies additional of all documents ordered to be printed in excess of the 
usuiil nunil)er; said fifty or one hundred copies to be delivered to the Librarian of 
Congress, to be exchanged, under direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, as 
provided bj' joint resolution approved March two, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven- 

Sec. 2. And be it further resolved, That fifty copies of each publication i)rinted under 
direction of any Department or Bureau of the Government, whether at tlie Congres- 
sional Printing-Oflice or elsewhere, shall be placed at the disposal of the Joint Com- 
mittee on the Library, to carry out the provisions of said resolution. 

Approved July 25, 1868. 

The following is the provision in relation to the subject in the Revised 
Statutes: 

Sec. 3796. The Congressional Priuter shall, when so directed by the Joint Committee 
on the Library, print, in addition to the usual number, either fifty or one liundred 
copies, as he may be directed, of all documents printed by order of either house of 
Congress, or of any Department or Bureau of the Government. [Revised Statutes.] 

The exchange proposed by this action of Congress, from unforeseen 
ditficulties, has never been fully carried into effect, although several 
attempts have been made to do so. 

In October, 1874, by special direction of Mr. Spofford, Librarian of Con- 
gress, four cases of documents were sent to the government of Ontario, 
Toronto ; and in November, 1871, five cases to the Parliamentary Li- 
brary, Ottawa, five cases to the government of Japan, and four cases to 
the Bibliothek des Deutschen Reichstag, Berlin. 

A number of boxes "were also shipped to the agents of the Institution 
in Europe, to be held by them for further instructions. 

A large quantity of these public documents having accumulated at 
the Institution, it became necessary to provide for their distribution 
•without further delay, and accordingly the Institution issued, in October 
last, the following circular : 

The Congress of the United States has authorized the exchange, under direction of 
the Joint Library Committee of Congress, through the Smithsonian Institution, of a 
certaiu number of all United States official documents for the corresponding publics/- 
tions of otlier governments throughout the world ; the returns to be placed in the 
National Library at Washington. The works to be distributed consist of reports and 
proceedings of Congress, messages of the President, annual reports and occasional pub- 
lications of Departments and Bureaus, &c., the whole relating to the legislation, juris- 
prudence, foreign relations, commerce, statistics, arts, manufactures, agriculture, geog- 
raphy, hydrography, &c., of the United States, and including everything, of whatever 
nature, published, either by direct order of Congress or by any of the Departments of 
the Government. The series embraces a large number of volumes each year, the most 
of which are bound. 

The exchange expected from each government is a complete series of its publications, 
to include the documents of special bureaus or departments as well as the general pub- 
lications, of whatever nature, printed at the public expense, and also embracing all 
such works as are published by booksellers with the aid of grants or subscriptions 
from governments. 

The Smitlisouian Institution, in behalf of the Joint Library Committee of Congress, 
is prepared to deliver the publications of the United States, free of charge for freight, 
to any person in the city of Washington or in New York who may be designated by 
the governments which enter into the arrangement. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

Tho books intended for the United States are to be delivered to either of tbo Smith- 
sonian agents, viz : 

Loudon, William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand; Paris, G. Bossange, IG rue du 
4 Septembre ; Leipsic, Dr. Felix Fliigel, 12 Sidonien Straese ; St. Petersburg, L. Wat- 
kins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place; Amsterdam, F. Mliller; Milan, U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria 
Cristoforia; Haarlem, Bureau Scieutitique Central Neerlandais a Harlem ; Christiania, 
Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitetet ; Stockholm, Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps 
Akademien; Copenhagen, Kongelige Dausko Videnskabernes Selskab. 

For all other countries, packages may be delivered to the United States ministers. 
An invoice of each transmission should be sent by mail to the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary SinitJtsonian Institution. 

This circular ^Yas seut with the following letter to the foreign minis- 
ters in Washington representing the following countries : Argentine 
Eepublic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Chili, Denmark, France, 
German Empire, Great Britain, Guatemala, Hawaii, Hayti, Italy, Japan, 
Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Portugal, Eussia, Salvador, Spain, Sweden 
and Norway, Turkey, United States of Colombia, Venezuela. 

Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D. C, October 30, 1875. 
Sir: I have the honor, accompanying this, to transmit a circular relative to the 
exchange of the documents published by the United States with those of other nations, 
and to request you to state to whom the boxes now ready for transmission, intended 
for your government, shall be delivered. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Sinitlisonian Institution. 

In accordance with the instructions received by the Institution in 
response to the foregoing letter, the following distribution of documents 
was made : 

C cases for Turkey, sent to legation, H street, Washington, D. C. 

G cases for France, sent to consul-general of France, New York. 

G cases for Portugal, sent to consul-general of Portugal, 148 Pearl 
street, New York. 

G cases for Sweden, sent to consulate, 18 Exchange Place, New York. 

6 cases for Brazil, sent to vice-consul, 52 South Gaj^ street, Baltimore. 

G cases for Argentine Eepublic, seut to G. Videla Dorna, Albermarle 
Hotel, New York. 

4 cases for Belgium, sent to Peter Wright & Sons, Philadelphia. 

1 case for Chili, sent to jMufioz & Espriella, 52 Pine street. New York. 

C cases for Mexico, sent to Juan N. Navarro, 50 Exchange Place, N. Y. 

When these boxes had been distributed we were requested by the 
Librarian of Congress to stop further proceedings until instructions 
could be procured from the Library Committee. As soon as the dinicul- 
ties which have impeded this work are removed, the Institution Mill go 
on to complete the arrangement. 

LIBRARY. 

The library of the Institution, as has been stated in previous r(-i)orts, 
is deposited in the Capitol of the United States, with the Librarian of 
S. Mis. 115 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Congress, under whose direction it is arranged and catalogued as a 
part of tlie Library of the Government. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
in 1875 : 

Volumes: 

Octavo, or less 810 

Quarto, or larger 301 

1, 120 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo, or less 2, 139 

Quarto, or larger 1, 877 

4, 016 

Pamphlets : 

Octavo, or less ^ 1, 524 

Quarto, or larger 273 

1, 797 

Maps and charts 114 

Total receipts 7, 047 

These articles are entered as they are received at the Institution in a 
large record-book, and afterward transferred to the Library of Congress. 
The number received in 1875 was considerably larger than that in the 
preceding year. 

During the past year much use has been made of the books of the 
Institution which are in the Library of Congress as well as those of the 
latter library by the collaborators of the Institution. The value of the 
library will, however, be enhanced when the new edition of the catalogue 
of transactions of learned societies has been published, the old edition 
having been deficient in the names of the works received since the date 
at which it was issued. 

The following are some of the more valuable works received in 1875: 

From the Ministry of War, St. Petersburg: Artillery Journal, 1868- 
1874,37 parts; Engineering Journal, 1868-1873, 27 parts; Ordnance 
Magazine, 1868-1874, 14 parts. 

From His Elighness the Maharajah of Travancose, Trevandrum : Ob- 
servations of Magnetic Declination, made at the Trevandrum and 
Augustia Observatories in the years 1852 to 1869. Tol. I. London, 
1874. 4to. 

From the British government : Fac-similes of National Manuscripts 
of Ireland, selected and edited under the direction of the Right Hon. 
Edward Sullivan, Master of the Ilolls in Ireland, by J. T. Gilbert, Sec- 
retary of the Public Record Office of Ireland, and photoziucographed 
by command of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, by Major-General Sir Henry 
James. Part I. Dublin, 1874. Folio. 

From the University of Chili, Santiago: Anales 1872,1873. Govern- 
ment Documents, 12 volumes and six i)arts. Topographical and Geolog- 
ical Chart of Chili, in 13 parts. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

From the Ambrosiau Library, Milan : Codex Syro-Hexaplaris Am- 
brosianus i)hotolitliographice editus (uirante et adnotante sac. obi. An- 
tonio Maria Ccriani. Milan, ISTi. Folio. 

From the publishers, Paris : Kfvue des Cours Litteraires, 18G3-1874; 
Revue des Cours Scientifiques, 1803-1874, 28 vols. 4to. 

From the Ro.yal University of Norway, Christiauia : The Cathedral of 
Throndheim. Christiauia, 1859. Folio. Die Ptlanzenwelt Norwegens. 
Christiauia, 1873-1895. Ito. Magnetism der Erde von Christopher 
Hausteen. 4to, with folio atlas. Christiauia, 1819. Gorges Melodier, 
arrangerede for pianoforte med text. Kjobeidiavn. 8vo. Die Aegyi)ti- 
schen Denkmiiler in St. Petersburg, Helsiugibrs, Upsala, uud Copenhagen, 
von J. Lieblein, mit 35 autograph irten Tafelu. Christiauia, 1873. 8vo. 
Gorges Mynter 1 Middelaldereu af C. A. Holmbre. Christiauia, 18(35. 4to. 
Geologisk Kart over det sondeufjeldske Norge af Dr. Kjeuelf. Meteo- 
rologisk Storm-Atlas af H. Mohu. Christiana, 1870. Folio. Denkmale 
der Holzbaukuust in JSorwegeu. Folio. Noske Natioualdragter af C. 
Tousberg. Christiauia. 4to. Portola Sogur, ved C. R. Uuger. Chris- 
tiauia, 1874. 8vo. Remains from the Iron Age of Scandinavia, by O. 
Moutelius. Stockholm, 1809. 4to. 

From Mr. James L. Bowes, Liverpool: Keramic Art of Japan. By 
George Ashdowu Auderley and James Lord Bowes. Parts I and 11. 
Illustrated. Louilou and Liverpool, 1875. Folio. Also descriptive cat- 
alogue of art works in Japanese lacquer, 1875. 4to. 

From the Public Library of Buenos Ayres: Government documents, 
scientific, historical, biographical and poetical works, 08 volumes, 114 
parts of volumes, and 35 pamphlets. 

From the Royal Library, Stockholm : Government documents, 100 
volumes. 

From the Bureau of Statistics, Stockholm : Bidrag till Sveriges 
Officiela Statistik, 24 parts, 4to, and Notices sur la Suede. Stockholm, 
1875. 8vo. 

From the Finnish Scientific Society, Helsingfors: 9 volumes of their 
publications. 

From the Universities of Dorpat, Helsingfors, Berlin, Bonn, Breslau, 
Erlangeu, Freiburg, Gottingen, Halle, Heidelberg, Jena, Leipzig, Mar- 
burg, Rostock, Basel, and Zurich : Inaugural dissertations for 1874. 

From the Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Canada: 15 volumes gov- 
ernment documents. 

From the Board of Admiralty, Loudon: 20 charts published b}^ the 
Ilydrographic OHice, from January, 1874, to January, 1875. The Ad- 
miralty Catalogue of Charts, Plans, &c., 1875 ; Catalogue of the Admir- 
alty Library, 1875 ; and 10 lists of lights. 

From the State Library of Illinois: 10 volumes State documents. 

From the State Library of Vermont : 9 volumes State documents. 

From Sir Charles Hartley, in behalf of the European Commission of 
the Danube : The second volume of lithographed plates of sur\'eys, &c., 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of the commissioD, with descriptive texts. The first voUime of this very 
valuable and important work was presented to the Institution some 
years ago by Baron d'Oft'enberg, the late Russian Minister at Wash- 
ington. 

Among the most interesting works presented is that of the first part 
of the series of facsimiles of the National Manuscripts of Ireland. The 
art of photozincography was invented by Maj. Gen. Sir Henry James, in 
1860, and in 186G he was ordered to produce five hundred fac-simile copies 
of Domesday Book, and afterward a series of national manuscripts to il- 
lustrate the changes in the English language and writing since the time 
of the Conquest. The publication of the first series in four volumes 
was finished in 1869. The government then concluded to have a se- 
ries of documents of a similar character produced from the Scotch Rec- 
ords, with translation, which was finished in 1872. Her Majesty's gov- 
ernment next authorized the publication of a series from the Irish Rec- 
ords, the first part of which, with all the other series, has been received 
by the Institution. The English series of fac-similes contains a great 
number of extremely valuable historical manuscripts of various kinds — 
legal, diplomatic, and epistolary. The Scotch series consists mainly of 
copies of a hirge number of royal and other charters and important state 
papers. The Irish series is remarkable not only for the great antiquity 
of many of the manuscripts comprised in it, but also for the splendid 
examples of pictorial art which it contains. 

Among the articles presented to the library is a photograph of an 
Egyptian jiapyrus, about 40 feet in length, from Mr. John S. Edgar, 
United States consul at Beirut, Syria, discovered in December, 1874, in 
a previously unopened tomb at Thebes, Egypt. 

It is proper to state, in connection with the library, that the following 
act of courtesy to the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, residing in 
Washington, was passed by Congress March 3, 1875: "That the Joint 
Committee of both Houses of Congress on the Library be authorized to 
extend the use of books in the Library of Congress to Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution resident in Washington on the same conditions 
and restrictions as members of Congress are allowed to use the Library." 

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES. 

The important arrangement which was concluded between the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which 
free telegraphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted 
between Europe and America, has been continued during the past year. 

The following is a list of the asteroids discovered in 1875: 

No. 141, discovered by Paul Henrj-, at Paris, January 13. 

No. 142, " by J. Palisa, at Pola, January 28. 

No. 143, " by J. Palisa, at Pola, February 23. 

No. 144, " by C. H. F. Peters, at Clinton, June 4. 

No. 145, " by C. H. F. Peters, at Clinton, June 4. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

No. 146, discovered by A. Borelly, at Marseilles, June 8, 

No. 147, " by Scliulhof, at Berlin, July 11. 

No. 148, " by Prosper Henry, at Paris, August 7. 

No. 149, " by Perrotiu, at Toulouse, October 0. 

No. 150, " by Watson, at Auu Arbor, October 18. 

No. lol, " by Palisa, at Pola, November 1. 

No. 152, " by Paul Henry, at Paris, November 2. 

No. 153, " by Palisa, at Pola, November li. 

No. 154, " by Prosper Henry, at Paris, November 4. 

No. 155, " by Palisa, at Pola, November 8. 

No. 15G, " by Palisa, at Pola, November 22. 

No. 157, " by Borelly, at Marseilles, December 1. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

The correspondence of tbe Institution continues to increase from 
year to 3-ear. Not only are there upward of 2,000 foreign institu- 
tions that require acknowledgments for works presented to libraries, or 
for specimens to the museum, but there are also an increasing num- 
ber of individuals iu different parts of the old and new worlds who, 
through the institution, make inquiries as to subjects connected with 
various branches of knowledge relative to America. 

In this country the public generall}" consider the Institution as an 
establishment to which requests may be addressed asking information 
on all branches of knowledge, the solution of various scientific prob- 
lems, the examination and indorsement both of scientific investigation 
and crude unscientific speculations. In the line of mathematics during 
the past year, we have had communications the object of which was Mio 
duplication of the cube, the quadrature of the circle, and the tri-sectiou 
of an angle, in which the writers confidently anticipated that no thiw 
could be found in their reasoning; and indeed in some cases much labor 
was required to point out the fallacy. But the most troublesome cor- 
respondents are persons of extensive reading, and in some cases of con- 
siderable literary acquirements, who in earlier life were not imbued with 
scientific methods, but who, not without a certain degree of mental 
power, imagine that they have made great discoveries in the way of 
high generalizations. Their claims not being allowed, they rank them- 
selves among the martyrs of science, against whom the scientific 
schools and the envy of the world have arrayed themselves. Indeed, 
to such intensity does this feeling arise in certain persons that on their 
special subjects they are really monomaniacs, although on others they 
may be not only entirely sane, but even evince abilities of a high 
order. This mental condition is not confined to our country. A notable 
example of it is ibund in the case of the celebrated German poet, 
Goethe, who, examining a dark i)atch on a white wall through a prism, 
saw the upper and lower edges of the dark fifjure bordered with the colors 
of the rainbow. On tliis observation he founded a theory of colors, 



38 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

which included the idea that blackness was a compound of all colors, 
and that the ordinary theory, which had been propounded by Newton, 
was an absurdity. tSo thoroughly did he become imbued with this con- 
ception that it was in vain to attempt to convince him of its fallacy, 
and he was irritated almost to madness when the name of Newton was 
mentioned with commendation. 

In this connection we may mention as a somewhat singular coinci- 
dence, that at the beginning of this Institution the author of this report 
was called upon to examine a paper, presented for publication by a pro- 
fessor in one of the most prominent universities of this country, in which 
the author had adopted as an original suggestion the same hypothesis as 
that of Goethe, and whose indignation on account of its rejection was 
expressed in terms of little courtesy. Two persons of this class have 
recently made a special journey to Washington, from distant parts of 
the country, to demand justice from the Institution, in the way of 
recognition of their claims to discoveries in science of great importance 
to humanity, and each of them has made an appeal to his Representa- 
tive in Congress to aid him in compelling the Institution to acknowledge 
the merits of his speculations. 

Providence vindicates in such cases the equality of its justice in giving 
to such persons an undue share of self-esteem, and an exaltation of confi- 
dence in themselves, which in a great degree compensate for the want 
of what they conceive to be the just appreciation of the public. Unless, 
however, they are men of great benevolence of disposition, who can 
look with pity on what they deem the ignorance and prejudice of lead- 
ers of science, they are apt to indulge in a bitterness of denunciation 
which might be injurious to the reputation of the Institution were their 
effects not neutralized by the extravagance of the assertions themselves. 
The representatives of this class of persons are increasing with the 
increase of the diffusion of popular knowledge.. It must not be 
understood that this remark is made to disparage the diffusion of 
scientific knowledge, but simply to indicate that there are classes of 
minds of a peculiar idiosyncrasy which tend to expend their power in 
unconditioned and unlruitful speculation ; neither do we condemn sci- 
entific speculation, for the discovery of all great principles of science is 
the result of antecedent hypotheses or speculations, which are, however, 
founded on definite analogies of the known, and finally adopted or 
rejected by the test of the exact agreement of predictions based upon 
them with the actual phenomena of nature. 

During the past year a number of communications have been received 
in regard to the discovery of new motive-powers as to which extrava- 
gant ideas have been entertained relative to superseding coal power 
as an element for the propulsion of machinery. In regard to these, we 
may say that science has established the great fact, without the possi- 
bility of doubt, that what is called power, or that which produces 
changes in matter, cannot be created by man, but exists in nature in a 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

state of activity or in a condition of neutralization ; and furthermore, 
that all the original forces connected with our globe, as a general rule, 
have assumed a state of permanent equilibrium, and that the crust of 
the earth as a whole, with the exception of the comparatively exceed- 
ingly small proportion, consisting of organic matter, such as coal, wood, 
&c., is, as it were, a burnt slag, incapable of yielding power; that all 
the motions and changes on its surface are due to actions from celestial 
space, principally from the sun These are comprised under the heads 
of wind-power, water-power, tide-power, and heat-power as developed 
in the combustion of coal. Beside these there are no indications of 
any other motive-powers. It is true, the heat of the interior of the 
earth may hereafter be utilized — that wind, water, and especially tide 
power may also be more generally employed than at present. Great 
improvements are possible also in the application of coal-power; the 
present steam-engine is exceedingly wasteful of useful eftect, and the 
perfection of the air-engine is much to be desired. 

The application of the direct heat of the sun to produce motive energy 
can scarcely ever compete with the indirect ai)plicatiou of this power 
through growing plants and the subsequent combustion of the fuel which 
they furnish. 

All attempts to substitute electricity or magnetism for coal-power 
must be unsuccessful, since these powers tend to an equilibrium irom 
which they can only be disturbed by the application of another power, 
which is the equivalent of that which they can subsequently exhibit. 
They are, however, with chemical attraction, «Stc., of great imi)ortance 
as intermediate agents in the application of the power of heat as de- 
rived from combustion. 

Science does not indicate in the slightest degree the possibility of the 
discovery of a new primary power comparable with that of combustion, 
as exhibited in the burning of coal. Whatever unknown powers may 
exist in nature capable of doiivg work, must be in a state of neutraliza- 
tion, otherwise they would manifest themselves spontaneously, and from 
this state of neutralization or e<iuilibrium they can only be released by 
the action of an extraneons power of equivalent energy, and we 
therefore do not hesitate to say that all declarations of the dis- 
covery of a new power which is to supersede the use of coal as 
a motive-power, have their origin in ignorance or deception, and 
frequently in both. A man of some ingenuity in combining mechan- 
ical elements, and having vsome indefinite scientific knowledge, imagines 
it possible to obtain a certain result by a given combination of princi- 
ples, and by long brooding over this subject, previous to experiment, at 
length convinces himself of the certainty of the anticipated result. 
Ilaving thus deceived himself by his sophisms, he calls upon his neigh- 
bors to accept his conclusions as verified truths, and soon acquires the 
notoriety of having made a discovery which is to change the civilization 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRi<JTARY. 

of the world. The shadowy reputation which he has thus acquired is 
too gratifying to his vanity to be at once reHnquished by the announce- 
ment of his self-deception, and in preference he applies his ingenuity in 
devising means by which to continue the deception of his friends and 
supporters long after he himself has been convinced of the fallacy of his 
first assumptions. In this way what was commenced in folly generally 
ends in fraud. 

The records of the Patent-Office of this country exhibit a greater 
amount of thought and ingenuity employed in the way of invention 
than perhaps in a!iy other country, but for want of more definite con- 
ceptions of scientific principles, an immense amount of labor is ex- 
pended in futile attempts to produce results which are unattainable. 

Another branch of the correspondence relates to questions in regard 
to the naming of objects of natural history, and especially to specimens 
of mineralogy. The interest which is felt in regard to the mining-pro- 
ducts of the country induce large numbers of specimens of ores to be 
submitted to the Institution for examination. The rule adopted in re- 
gard to these, is to give the results of a qualitative analysis, that is, an 
enumeration of the substances contained in each specimen, without 
giving the percentage of each. This information can be given without 
very much labor for a single specimen, whereas an exact quantitative 
analysis would require more time than the Institution can devote to an 
inquiry which may be of commercial value to an individual, but of no 
especial interest to the public at large. When information as to the 
percentage of ingredients is required, the party is referred to some ex- 
pert who will make the examination desired for a proper compensation. 
This distinction in the kind of information furnished is necessary to pre- 
vent the name of the Institution from being connected with transactions 
of a character which have been injurious to the reputation of those con- 
cerned in them. 

In carrying on the correspondence, much assistance has been rendered 
hy the collaborators of the Institution. 

ETHNOLOGY. 

From the commencement of the Institution to the present time, the arch- 
aeology of the United States has been to it an object of special interest. 
In all cases in which information has been received of the locality of a 
field of probable interesting discovery, an appropriation has been made 
for its ethnological explorations. The articles obtained from such 
sources have been deposited in the National Museum, with the intention 
of having descriptions and discussions of them published in the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge. Tlie archaeology of the United 
States has not been the only part of ethnology to which attention has 
been given, but also special effort has been made from the first to obtain 
illustrations and descriptions of the now -existing native inhabitants of 
the North American continent. This latter subject is very important in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

furnishing the materials for ascortainins; the uses of the implements of 
the Stone Age found in the ancient mounds, since many of them with. 
I)erhaps slight modification are in use at the present time among the 
more remote Indians of the western portion of this country. For exam- 
ple, pointed stone imi)lemeuts found in the mounds which have been 
thought to be arrow and javelin points, are now employed as knives, 
to which wooden handles are attached by means of a vegetable cement, 
and from the transmission of usages we may confldently assume that 
similar handles, long since decayed, were also originally attached to like 
implements of undoubted ancient origin. 

The subject of ethnology has received a very great impetus through 
the appropriation of Congress for the display of illustrations at the 
Centennial, circulars having been distributed, requesting the corres- 
pondents of the Institution to aid in collecting specimens and to give 
information as to the existence of special collections, from which unique 
specimens could be borrowed for copying in plaster. The Institution 
has also engaged the services of Dr. Eau, of New York, the well-known 
ethnologist, to classify and arrange the whole collection in the National 
Museum, and to prepare a descriptive catalogue for publication. He has 
commenced with the classification of the specimens of the Stone Age, and 
has nearly completed this part of the general work. In this classifica- 
tion it has been thought projier to separate the objects belonging to 
times anterior to the occupation of the continent by Europeans, from 
those which have been used since that period. The first archaeological 
series more particularly comprises objects found in mounds and other 
burial-places of early date, in caves, shell-heaps, &c., or, in other words, 
those which cannot with certainty be ascribed to tribes" still in exist- 
ence, or which have become extinct within historical times. 

The second, or more strictly ethnological, series, consists of objects ob- 
tained from existing native tribes, and contains almost every article 
tending to illustrate the domestic life, hunting, fishing, games, warfare, 
navigation — in short, every phase of Indian existence that can be exhib- 
ited by tangible objects. 

An account of what has been added to this department will be found 
in the report on the Museum by Prof. Baird, and also in the Appendix. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Institution, as in former years, has been in harmonious co-opera- 
tion with the Department of Agriculture, the Army Medical Museum, 
and the Corcoran Art Gallery. With the first it has deposited plants 
and other articles relating to agriculture; to the second it has trans- 
ferred a large number of articles pertaining to comparative anatomy 
and materia medica, and has received in return ethnological specimens; 
in the third, the Corcoran Art Gallery, it has deposited a number of en- 
gravings. 

The Secretary of the Institution being one of the trustees of the Art- 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Gallery, the connection between the two establishments is not only cor- 
dial, but of an intimate character. The gallery during the year has 
been enriched by a large collection of rare plaster-casts, copies of the 
principal statues of the Vatican, and has been visited by a large num- 
ber of citizens and strangers as a source of refined pleasure, and by a 
number of persons as means of practical improvement in art. We learn 
with pleasure that Mr. Corcoran, in addition to his munificent gifts to 
the city of Washington, is making provision for a series of art-studios, 
which cannot fail to add to the refined culture of the national capital. 

Chemical laboratory. — During the past three years the laboratory of 
the Institution has been in charge of Dr. Oscar Loew, the chemist and 
mineralogist of the Wheeler survey ; and during this time he has luade 
various analyses for the Institution of minerals, mineral- waters, and 
other substances referred to the Institution for examination by the 
Government and other parties. 

In behalf of the Wheeler expedition he has investigated and analyzed 
the waters of twenty ditferent thermal springs, mineral springs, and 
alkaline lakes of Southern California ; soils of arable lands and of the 
desert of Southern California; saline efflorescences from numerous 
localities in the Mohave desert, and ores and rocks from the same 
locality. 

Photofirapliy. — The photographic laboratory, under the direction of 
Mr. T. W. Smillie, has been removed to the new building erected ex- 
pressly for its accommodation and for the use of the taxidermists and 
naturalists engaged in jneparing specimens for the Centennial Exhibi- 
tion. A large number of photographs have been made of ethnological 
and natural history specimens for the use of the Institution, and a large 
amount of work done for others, especially for the United States Fish- 
Commission and Government surveys. 

The Institution has been engaged for several years in collecting i)ho- 
tographic likenesses of distinguished cultivators of science in all parts 
of the world, of the meteorological observers who for many years fur- 
nished valuable records of their observations, of the contributors to the 
ethnological department of the National Museum, of and other corres- 
pondents of the Institution. Of these photographs, four hundred have 
been received, which are neatly framed and form an interesting feature 
of the collections. 

Light-Jiouse duty. — I have been a member of the Light-House Board 
since its first organization, and during all this time have discharged the 
duty of chairman of the committee on experiments. On the resignation 
of Admiral Shubrick in 1871, 1 was honored by an the election as chair- 
man of the board. In the discharge of the duties connected with this 
service, I usually devote one day in the week and the greater proportion of 
my summer vacation. It may not be improper for me to remark that 
for the labors which I have thus bestowed upon the light-house service 
for upward of twenty years, I have received no other remuneration than 



REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

that which results fioiii the consciousness of having labored somewhat 
successfully in advancing the eCticiency of a service which is one of 
the benevolent institutions of the present day tending to facilitate the 
harmonious intercourse of nations widely sei)arated by inter\ening 
oceans. 

During the last summer 1 devoted the entire vacation to the investi- 
gation of sound in its relation to fog-signals, the results of whicli have 
been published iu the report of the Light-House Board iorl875. These 
investigations were a continuation of those of i(>rni«?r years, and tend 
to establish the facts previously obtained, as well as to extend the 
knowledge of the phenomena of sound in its application to the uses of 
the mariner. 

In these investigations the following conclusions have been arrived 
at: 

1. That the rays of a beam of sound do not, like those of a beam of 
light, move parallel to each other from the surface of a concave retle(;tor, 
but constantly diverge laterally on all sides, and although at first they 
are more intense in the axis of the reliector, they finally spread out so 
as to encompass the whole horizon, thus rendering the use of reflectors to 
enforce fog-signals of little value. 

2. That the effect of wind in increasing or diminishing sound is not 
confined to currents of air at the surface of the earth, but that those of 
higher strata are also active in varying its transmission. 

3. That although sound is generally heard farther with the wind than 
against it, yet iu some instances the reverse is remarkably the case. 

4. That sound may be heard in some cases at a greater distance, 
while it is inaudible at a less distance from its origin. 

5. That a distant sound may be heard at the top of a tower in some 
cases when it is inaudible at the bottom. 

0. That sound experiences a refraction deflecting it, in some cases, in 
a horizontal direction, and in others in a vertical plane, which explains 
most of the phenomena above mentioned. 

Tlie results obtaiued«have excited considerable interest in this coun- 
try and in Europe, and have given rise to criticism and discussions 
which will tend to enlarge and diffuse the knowledge of this important 
subject. 

1 have also, in behalf of the Light-House Board, made a series of 
experiments on i>etroleum as a light-house illuminant. These exi)eri- 
nuiuts were in continuation of those which I had previously made iu 
regard to the introduction of lard-oil. Previous to the establishment of 
the Light-House Board, sperm-oil had been exclusively used iu our 
system of light-houses, but the expense of this gradually increased from 
year to year until it became as high as $3 per gallon. After a laborious 
series of experiments, it was found that, under certain conditions, lard-oil 
might be substituted, and as this could be purchased at the time for 
from 50 to 00 cents per gallon, a saving of more than a hundred thousand 
dollars per annum was the result of the change. At the same time, a 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

series of investigations, was made iu regard to petroleum, but at that 
period the ouly refined petroleum submitted to the board after advertise- 
ment was that of a volatile character, and too dangerous to be adopted 
for light-house purposes. Since then, however, the price of lard-oil 
has constantly increased, while refined petroleum can now be obtained 
of such a character as to be safely employed by ordinary light-house 
keepers. Its introduction, therefore, in regard to economy, is a matter of 
much importance. But great care must be exercised iu selecting oil of 
a proper quality, and hence the necessity of a thorough knowledge of its 
l^eculiarities in regard to safety. 

In the investigations on this subject, it was ascertained that the fire- 
test usually employed to establish the character of a given oil in reference 
to safety was not in itself sufficient to settle this question. Many of 
the oils in general use, which, at the temperature of the atmosphere, in- 
creased by that from the burning of the lamp, give off a vapor which, if 
suffered to accumulate and mingle with the air in the space above the 
oil in the reservoir, produces a mixture which, if in definite proportion, 
explodes with the violence of gunpowder. It is true, on the doctrine of 
chances, an explosion may seldom take place, but still, the conditions 
necessary are frequently present, and only requires the application of a 
flame to produce a disastrous effect. 

Although the discovery of the petroleum wells of Pennsylvania has 
been an immense boon to humanity, yet the advantage gained from it 
Las been dearly bought by the accidents which have resulted from its 
incautious use. Its sale ought to be regulated by rigid enactments of 
legislatures, and none suffered to be sold which exhales a vapor capable 
of producing an explosion when mixed except at a temperature much 
above that at which the lamp is subjected in the warmest period of the 
year. 

Fish Commission. — The investigation in regard to food-fishes and the 
methods of their propagation, for which an appropriation for several 
years has been annually made by Congress, has been continued under 
the direction of Professor Baird. This work was commenced iu 1872, 
and has been jirosecuted with satisfactory results to the present time. 
The species to which special attention has been given are shad, the 
fresh-water herring, the striped bass or rock-fish, the California salmon, 
the salmon of Maine, the land-locked salmon, the white-fish, and the 
carp, each of these having special relations to certain portions of the 
country, and promising in their anticipated aggregate an extremely 
important addition to the food-resources of the United States. 

The States which have, up to this time, been the recipients of spawn 
and young fish are thirty-two in number. The extension of the benefit 
to other States, and its amplification in all, is simply a question of time 
and expenditure. The subject of fish culture is one of general popu- 
larity, as is evinced by the appointment of fish-commissioners iu nine- 
teen States, in most instances for the purpose of direct co-operation 
with the United States Commission. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

The importance of the subject may be inferred from tlie fact that it 
may be stated, without exaggeration, tliat the waters bordering our 
shores can be made to yield a hirger percentage of nutriment, acre for 
acre, than the hxnd. Indeed, fish culture is the only efficient means by 
which the fertilizing ingredients of the soil, which are constantly car- 
ried into the ocean by sewage, can be reclaimed for the reproduction of 
nutriment to organized beings. By want of a reclamation ot this kind, 
certain portions of the earth thickly inhabited in ancient times have 
become sterile and almost deserted. 

For the purpose of giving an idea of the nature and extent of the 
operations of the United States Fish Commission, Professor Baird gives 
the following statement, showing the distribution of fish during the 
years 1874 and 1875 : 

Of young shad 18, GS9, 550 

Of Penobscot salmon 2, 294, 5G5 

Of California salmon 4, 581, 340 

Total young fish 25, 5G5, 455 

To this is to be added the hatching and distribution, during the winter 
and spring of 1S75-'7G, of California salmon, Penobscot salmon, land- 
locked salmon, and lake white-fish, not yet completed, amounting to at 
least fourteen million fish, thus making a total of forty million fish sup- 
])lied by the United States Fish Commission in three years. This, at 
the assumed ratio of 1 to 200, would represent the proceeds of eight 
thousand million of eggs laid in the natural way, and subject to all the 
I)erils of natural spawning. 

Polaris expedition. — Dr. Emil Bessels during the year has continued his 
labors at the Institution on the scientific materials which were saved 
from the Polaris expedition to the Arctic regions in the years 1871-'73, 
with the exception of two months in the summer, which were devoted to 
an attempt to make an exploration of Alaska in the United States 
steamer Sariiaac. He was, however, unfortunately shipwrecked and 
lost all his outfit. The first volume of the scientific results of the 
Polaris Expedition, relating to astronomy, pendulum experiments, temper- 
ature, winds, psychroineter, solar radiation, terrestrial radiation, ozone, 
face of the sky, meteorology, those taken at sea, «&c., has been printed, 
and makes 793 pages. The volume will contain 9G0 pages, 14 plates, 2 
maps, and 40 wood-cuts. Volumes II and III are under preparation, the 
former being devoted to natural history, comprising zoology, botany, geol- 
ogy, palaeontology, mineralogy, containing about 250 pages, 10 plates, and 
30 wood-cuts; the latter will comprise a complete monograi)h on the Es- 
kimo, illustrated by a hundred plates and 300 wood-cuts. Of the former, 
35 are ready to be engraved; of the latter 122 are drawn and 74 are en- 
graved. The expense ot preparation of this work and of the illustrations is 
defrayed by an appro[)riation of $15,000 by Congress at its last session. 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The National Museum was established by the Government in 1842, 
and consisted of the specimens collected by the Wilkes exploring exi^e- 
ditiou. It was transferred from the Patent Office to the care of the 
Smithsonian Institution in 1858, where it has been enlarged by all the 
collections made by exploring and surveying parties of the several 
bureaus of the War, Navy, Treasury, and Interior Departments, and 
those of the Smithsonian Institution. 

At first, $4,000 were allowed by Congress for the care and exhibition 
of the specimens. This sum has been gradually increased to $20,000. 
Nothing, however, has been allowed for the rent of the building, which 
was erected exclusively out of the income from the bequest of Smith- 
son. 

The following report from Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Assistant Secre- 
tary, gives an account of the additions to the Museum and the various 
operations connected with it during the year 1875: 

Increase of the National Museum. — The year 1875 constitutes a marked 
epoch in the history of this establishment, the increase in the number 
and comparative value of the specimens received, as also the work done 
in connection with the same, being much greater than that of any pre- 
vious year. This is due partly to the natural increase year by year, which 
has been experienced since 18G5, but more particularly as the result of 
special efforts made to prepare a suitable exhibition of the natural his- 
tory and ethnology of the country at the International Exhibition of 
1876. 

For the purpose of enabling the Institution to exhibit a satisfactory 
display of the mineral, animal, fishery, and ethnological condition of 
the country, an appropriation was made by Congress of $07,000, sub- 
ject, however, to a deduction for the erection of a building and the 
preparation of the surrounding grounds for that occasion. As this 
amounted to about $17,000, the sum actually available was $50,000. In 
addition to this, $5,000 was appropriated for the department of the food- 
fishes. 

As many important gaps existed in the collection of American animals, 
speedy efforts were made to i)rocure such as were wanting, or to replace 
such as were in bad condition. 

The object of the exhibition in question was to present the industrial 
relations and applications of American natural history and geology; 
and as this had been entirely neglected previously, it became necessary' 
to commence from the beginning and study out a plan of operations 
after determining the general character of the exhibit that was to be 
made. With this view, a series of circulars was prepared on the diOerent 
subjects, and sent to all the correspondents of the Institution, accom- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

paiiied with special directions for collecting, packing, and shipping, as 
also a schedule of classification. 

The mineral department was first organized, and was placed in charge 
of Prof. William P. Blake, an experienced mining-engineer and geolo. 
gist. In this work he was assisted by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, who had 
charge of the collecting of the gold and silver ores of the West, and of 
which he secured a very complete and exhaustive representation. 

The department of the auinjal products and of the fisheries was placed 
more particularly in Mr. Goode's charge ; and that of ethnology assigned 
to Dr. Ran. For fuller details of what has been done in this and other 
branches, I refer to my special report to you. 

As the general result of the agencies that have been set in motion, I 
may state that the contributions in 1875 amounted to over one thousand 
in number, embracing nearly two thousand packages, from four hundred 
and sixty-four different parties, this being, as already stated, far in 
excess of those of any previous year. 

1 present herewith a list of these donations, arranged alphabetically, 
and to which I refer for additional details, the aggregate being too great 
to permit the systematic plan of presentation of previous years. 

Under the head of Mammals, the most important addition to the 
stock is that of the series of skins of the fur-seal and sea-lion, i)resented 
by the Alaska Commercial Company, twenty specimens of the former 
and five of the latter constituting the contribution. To this company 
the Smithsonian Institution is under many obligations, not only for 
securing and sending the skins, but for acting as its agent in San Fran- 
cisco for the transaction of its business, connected with the transmission 
of supplies to its correspondents and the forwarding to Washington of 
their collections. From Mr. Charles E. Aiken, of Colorado, several 
specimens of mountain-buffalo and other animals have been received. 
Capt. James Gilliss has supplied the black-tailed deer ; Colonel Brock- 
ett, a fine elk ; Mr. P. T. Barnum, specimens of various animals that 
liave died in his menagerie, such as the eland, giraffe, sea-lion, ostrich, 
&c. Rev. R. R. McLeod, of Houlton, Me., has furnished nearly all the 
mammals of Maine, such as the caribou, the beaver, the porcupine, the 
fisher, the marten, &c. 

Of birds, the more especial contributions are a series of fine specimens 
from Mr. S. C. Bowman, a skin of the Honduras turkey from Mr. F. E. 
Sarg, and a collection of Alaskan sj)ecies from Mr. Lucien M. Turner. 

Numerous small lots of reptiles and amphibia have been received from 
various gentlemen, and will be found enumerated in the list. 

Of fishes, the most important special collections are a series of the 
fishes of Norway from Mr. Robert CoUett, and those gathered by the 
United States Fish Commission ; types of South American fishes, from: 
C. R. Liitken ; collections from the vicinity of Newport, by Mr. Samuel 
Powel ; and from Gloucester', by J. S. Whitman ; from California and 
Oregon, by Mr. Livingston Stone, &c. 



48 EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Of tlie fresh-water and land shells, all the collections were placed in 
charge of Dr. James Lewis for arrangement, and occasion was taken 
to issue a special circular, asking contributions to this department. 
Many responses were made to this invitation, and the collection thereby 
greatly increased. 

Other invertebrates were secured by the efforts of the United. States 
Fish Commission, and through correspondents. 

The department of ethnology has been especially enriched in conse- 
quence of the desire to render the Centennial display a success. In this 
the co-operation of the Indian Bureau of the Department of the Interior 
has been of the greatest importance. Among the most valuable 
acquisitions in this department have been the collections of Mr. Paul 
Schumacher and his party on the mainlands and the islands adjacent to 
Santa Barbara, as also those of Kev. Stephen Bowers in the same 
neighborhood. Collections of less magnitude were also made by Mr. 
Schumacher in Oregon. The Alaska Commercial Company presented 
a series of nine mummies from Kagaymil Island of the Aleutian group, 
and one from Prince William's Sound, all of much ethnological inter- 
est, being the iirst specimens of the kind ever received from Alaska. 

The traditions respecting the Aleutian mummies indicate that they 
are at least one hundred and fifty years old, antedating the discovery 
of the islands by the Kussiaus. One of the bodies in a sitting posture 
was encased in a rude casket of raw-hide, lashed in a netting of sinews, 
all parts in an excellent state of preservation. Another body is with- 
out covering. Of these valuable ethnological specimens, three have 
been presented to other establishments, viz, the Peabody Ethnological 
Museum, Cambridge, Mass.; Yale College, New Haven, Conn., and the 
American Museum, New York City. 

Col. William P. Arny has supplied a series of dresses and utensils of 
the Navajo Indians, and Maj. J. W. Powell an extensive series of similar 
objects from the Shoshone, the Bannock, and other tribes. Mr. James 
G. Swan, in the course of a special exploration for the Centennial, has 
furuished a vast number of interesting ethnological objects from Sitka, 
Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Columl)ia, and Puget Sound. 

Mr. Stephen Powers visited Nevada and California, with the special 
object of obtaining collections for the Centennial, the results of which 
are of very great magnitude. A very valuable collection of pre-historic 
implements from New England Avas obtained from Mr. J. H. Chirk, of 
New York, and a great number of contributions of a simiUir character, 
in small numbers, have been received, for which reference must be 
made to the appended list. From points outside of the United States 
the most important contribution is that of objects of stone and earthen 
ware, gathered by the late George Latimer in the island of Porto 
Rico, where, for many years a resident, he devoted himself to bringing 
together everything of antiquarian interest. This gentleman died in 
Paris in November, 1874, and bequeathed this collection to the Smith- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

sonian tustitiition, and it was received in April last, and is, by far, the 
most complete series of the kind in existence, embracing as it does a 
unraber of peculiar forms, scarcely known elsewhere. 

Mr. Hugo Finck, of Cordova, has furnished some very ancient Ameri- 
can antiquities, and corresponding objects from Salvador have been 
supplier] by Dr. Flint. Professor Gabb has contributed an extremely 
exhaustive and important collection of articles from Costa Eica, leaving 
but little to be desired in the line of ethnology from that country. Mr. 
Steinberg has sent some interestiug specimens, models of boats, &c., 
from the Samoau Islands. Mr. J. B. Norton contributed a collection of 
antiqnities from Peru, including quite a number of interesting articles 
in bronze. 

From the University of Christiania has been received a very interest- 
ing group consisting of a life-size figure of a Laplander in his native 
costume seated in a sledge attached to a mounted reindeer, the whole 
forming an interesting ethnological illustration of the art of locomotion 
in Scandiuavia. 

The additions to the department of mineralogy have also been very 
great, and will be found detailed in the accompanying list. 

The number of miscellaneous collections received during the year, cov- 
ering more than one department of natural history, has been very great. 
These have been principally from Government expeditions, the collec- 
tions of which were deposited with the Smithsonian Institution, in com- 
pliance with the law of Congress constituting it the custodian of the 
Xational Museum. Among the more important of these, we may men- 
tion the collections made by the party of Lieut. George M. Wheeler in 
the West, embracing a large variety of objects, including many skins of 
mammals, birds, eggs, reptiles, insects, &c. The collections of JMajor 
Powell, although principally ethnological, and referred to under that 
head, also embraced numerous animals and other objects. 

In the report for 1874, reference was made to the preparations by the 
United States for the Transit of Venus expedition and the arrangements 
of the Institution to secure interesting objects of ethnology and natural 
history ; and I am happy to say that the results have been far beyond 
all reasonable expectations. The most valuable collection of the kind 
was that made by Dr. J. G. Kidder, assistant surgeon on board the 
Swatara, and who, on the arrival of the vessel at Kerguelen Island, 
remained with the astronomical party, and devoted his energies to the 
investigation of the natural history of that little-known land. His col- 
lections made there embrace large numbers of birds, eggs, some mam- 
mals, and nmrine invertebrates and plants. A report on the results of 
his labors occupies two numbers of the lately commenced Bulletin of 
the United States ^National Museum. Dr. Kershner, the surgeon of 
the Swatara, also made large contributions somewhat similar in their 
general character to those of Dr. Kidder, and embracing species col- 
lected at ports that were visited by the vessel. 
S. Mis. 115 1 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The collections made by Mr. Russell, oue of the photographers of the 
expeditiou, at Hobart Towu aud vicinity-, were also very importaut, and 
included some specimens obtained from the Colonial Museum for trans- 
mission to the Smithsonian Institution. 

From Mr. Edwin Smith, of the United States Coast Survey, in 
charge of the party on Chatham Island, have been received some inter- 
esting crania of the Maori and Moriori tribes. 

As in ijrevious years, the operations of the United States Fish Com- 
mission, under my charge, have furnished a rich yield of additions to 
the National Museum. Its headquarters for the season were established 
at Wood's Hole, Massachusetts, the same station as that of 1871; aud 
the improved facilities for collecting were made use of to secure large 
numbers of marine animals, embracing a stock for distribution as dupli- 
cates to other establishments. 

WorJc done in connection ivith the National Museum. — As might be 
expected, the increased number of contributions during the year has 
involved a corresponding amount of labor in the way of unpacking, 
recording, aud general fitting for j)ermanent preservation, taxing 
severely the efforts of the regular force and that enlisted temporarily 
for the purpose of meeting the exigencies of the Centennial Exhibition. 

The actual number of entries made in the record-books of the Insti- 
tution during the year was 12,578, carrying the total forward to 210,327. 

A large amount of labor has been performed also upon the general 
collections. The reptiles and fishes have been put in excellent order by 
a transfer to suitable bottles, labeling and recording. The mammals 
and the skins of more or less birds have been re-arranged in new cases, 
aud are now iu excellent condition. The entire collection of duplicate 
birds' eggs has been overhauled, and a number of sets selected for dis- 
tribution to scientific establishments. 

The taxidermists have been diligently at work and have more than 
doubled the number of mounted animals of the collection, and greatly 
increased that of tlie birds. The work of preparing plaster-casts of 
fishes, reptiles, and cretaceaus has also been continued, and this sec- 
tion is now believed to bo entirely unique. 

Outside of the building, as usual, much has been done on the Smith- 
sonian collections. Dr. James Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y., has continued 
his labors upon the fresh-water and land shells of the United States 
belonging to the Institution, having labeled the reserve series of JJni- 
oniclcv, &c., and returned them to the Institution, the duplicates in large 
part being made up into sets for distribution. 

]Mr. J. A. Allen has had several groups of American mammals, espe- 
cially the squiriels and the rabbits, from the Institution for the prepa- 
ration of a series of monographs. Dr. Elliot Coues has continued his 
labors upon the collection of mice, and has also monographed the 
American carnivora. 

A large number of specimens of insects has been turned over to the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

Museum of the Agricultural Departmeut, iu accordance with the ar- 
raugemeut to render that establishment the depository of such objects; 
while to the Army Medical Museum many hundreds of human crania 
have been transmitted under a similar understanding. Several special- 
ists, in addition to those mentioned, have received material for their 
investigation." 

Tucson Meteorite. — Among the objects of special interest in the Na- 
tional Museum is a very large meteorite from Arizona, of which an ac- 
count has been given in previous reports. For the possession of this 
specimen the Institution is principally indebted to Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, 
surgeon of the United States Army, who, although it had been seen by 
other travelers, was the first to conceive the idea of having it transferred 
to the Smithsonian Institution. In carrying out this proposition he 
was assisted by the generous co-operation of several persons and trans- 
portation companies. Owing to an imperfect history iu regard to 
obtaining this interesting specimen, a label was affixed to it of which 
complaint was made by Dr. Irwin. After a review of all the facts of the 
case, and in accordance with his suggestion, the specimen is now labeled 
as follows : "The Tucsou Meteorite presented to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution by Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. A., and transported from Tucson, 
Ariz., to Washington free of cost by S. Ainsa, the Flint & Halliday 
steamers, the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, and the Panama Pail- 
road Company." 

We hope this inscription will be satisfactory to Dr. Irwin and do 
justice to all concerned in furnishing the National Museum with one of 
its most interesting specimens. 

GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS. 

The following is a brief account of the principal explorations of the 
Government in 1875, from which specimens will be derived for increas- 
ing the collections of the National Museum. 

The United States Geological and Geographical Survey, under the di- 
rection of Professor Hayden, during the season of 1875, continued its 
work of the two previous seasons in Colorado, completing the southern 
and southwestern portions, including a belt fifteen miles in width, of 
Northern New Mexico and Eastern Utah. The entire force of the sur- 
vey was divided into seven i^arties for special duty, four of which were 
assigned to specific areas for the performance of topographical and geo- 
logical work, one party attended to the primary triangulation, a second 
collected photographic views of the most interesting scenery and ancient 
ruins, while a third transported the supplies to the various districts. 

The entire area surveyed during the summer of 1875 embraced about 
thirty thousand square miles. There now remains only the northwest 
corner of Colorado to be examined, prior to the completion of six 
sheets of the physical atlas which has been designed by the Depart- 



52 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

meut of the Interior. These maps will be engraved on a scale of four 
miles to one inch, and each sheet will embrace an area of about eleven 
thousand five hundred square miles. The districts explored during the 
past year werenotso mountainous as those of the previous year, but w^ere 
located in the most inaccessible regions of this continent. Much of the 
country is drained by the Colorado Elver and is mainly a plateau country, 
cut in every direction by deep gorges orcaiions, the sides of which show, 
for geological investigations, admirable sections of the strata formingthe 
earth's crust. The topography was elaborated in great detail by the use 
of the plane-table. The geological structure of the country was care- 
fully studied and much material secured that will throw light on the 
various i)roblems which have perplexed geologists for years past. 

The exploration of the remarkable prehistoric ruins of Southern Col- 
orado, glimpses of which were obtained the preceding season, was con- 
tinued with great success. They were traced down the caQons of the 
Colorado lliver in New Mexico, Utah, and Arizona, and their connec- 
tion established with the cliff cities of the Moquis of the latter Terri- 
tory. Hundreds of clitf or cave dwellings of curious architecture and 
many miles from water were found in the sides of the gorges, and the 
ruins of extensive towns discovered in the adjacent plains, indicating 
the former existence of a people far more numerous and advanced in 
the arts of civilization than their supposed descendants of the pres- 
ent day. A good collection of pottery, stone implements, the lat- 
ter including arrow-heads, axes, and ear ornaments, &c., some pieces 
of rope, fragments of matting, water-jars, corn and beans, and other 
articles were exhumed from the debris of these dwellings. Many 
graves were found, and a number of skulls and skeletons, that may 
fairly be attributed to the prehistoric inhabitants, were added to the 
collection. Of these ruins, many interesting sketches, plans, and pho- 
tographs were made, and the materials were secured for an exhaustive 
report on this subject, which will be given to the public at an early 
day. 

The photographer of the survey also obtained a series of mountain 
views on plates 24 inches long by 20 wide, or larger by several inches 
than any landscape photograph ever before taken in this country. 

The publications of the survey during the year 1875 consist of '-The 
Vertebrata of the Cretaceous formations of the West," by E. D. Cope, 
303 pages text, quarto, with 57 plates ; third edition of " Lists of Eleva- 
tions West of the Mississippi," much enlarged ; second edition of "Cat- 
alogue of Photographs ;"and " Bulletin of the Survey," in six numbers, 
comprising 500 closely printed octavo pages, with 26 plates of sections, 
maps, &c. 

The work of the Second Division of the United States Geological and 
Geographical Survey of the Territories under the direction of Prof. J. 
W. Powell, had arrived at the beginning of the year 1875 at a stage at 
which it was deemed best that a review of the geology should be made 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. . 53 

for tlie purpose of establisLing Aviib greater accuracy the natural series 
of geological formations. A small ])arty was organized for this purpose, 
and was led by Professor Powell himself The main party under Prof. 
A. n. Thompson, geographer of the division, continued the work during 
the past season in the Territory of Utah, over an area of nearly ten thou- 
sand square miles, stretching from the Henry Mountains, ou the north, 
to the Kai-par-o-wits Plateau on the south, and from the Colorado River, 
on the east, to the Aquarius Plateau, on the west. 

It was found that of the lauds surveyed the past season, one-fourth 
of 1 per cent, can bo utilized by irrigation ; about 50 per cent, are pas- 
ture-lands; about 9 per cent, are of timber; 4 per cent, mineral-lauds; 
and the remainder desert. 

Mr. G. K. Gilbert studied the structural geology of the country, and 
collected the materials for a geological map. 

A second and closely allied subject of study has been the eruptions that 
produced the Henry Mountains, a third has been the erosion by which 
the structure has been laid bare, and a fourth, the Saliua Creek un- 
conformity. The investigation at Salina Creek was of a special nature, 
and its bearings cannot be briefly stated. Its results establish a single 
point of geological history, namely, that an epoch of mountain-growth, 
of which evidences are found in the Sevier and Sanpete Valleys, and in 
the Pahvau Mountains, occurred at about the end of the Cretaceous 
period. 

The stratified rocks examined range in age from Carboniferous to 
Tertiary. Upon the geological map the combined Trias and Jura Avill 
cover half the space. The volcanic area will come next in size, and after 
that the Cretaceous. The excellence of the topographic work will 
enable a very thorough delineation of their boundaries. 

Fossils were found in numerous localities, but no large collections 
were made. 

Coal of cretaceous age was seen, but no other valuable minerals. 

Captain C. E. Button was engaged in the examination of a large tract 
consisting of igneous rocks. It lies in Southern Utah, its northern 
boundary being about one hundred and fifty miles south of Salt Lake 
City, extending thence southward about eighty-tive miles, and having 
a breadth of about sixty miles. It consists of a series of long, narrow 
tables with intervening valleys, and is structurally a repetition of those 
features descril)ed by Professor Powell as characteristic of the whole of 
Southern Utah and Northern Arizona, and which have led him to call it 
the Plateau Province. The tables are cut from the platforms of the val- 
leys by immense faults and uplifted from 2,000 to 5,500 feet above the 
valley-plains, presenting nearly vertical walls, fringed at their base by 
rugged foot-hills. The plateaus are composed of thick beds of igneous 
rocks well stratified and nearly horizontal; the foot-hills, on the con- 
trary, are composed of beds much broken and disturbed and intermixed 
with lava. The southern portions are overlaid by a conglomerate which 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

commences near tlie middle'of the region, with a thickness of at least 
2,300 feet, and diminishes southward to 700 or 800 feet. It is composed 
■wholly of igneous fragments often of great size, inclosed in a matrix of 
sand and clay. In the southern portion it is underlaid by red sand- 
stone and white marl of Tertiary Age ; in the middle portion, by rocks 
of the porphyritic class. The northern and higher portion consists of 
well stratified rocks, having the mineral characieristics in some places 
of trachyte, in others of rhyolite, but with a structural habit, a texture 
and general mode of occurrence very unusual in that kind of rock. 
Lava-beds occur abundantly, but, so far as observed, are restricted to 
the foot-hills and valleys, and have evidently originated from the vicin- 
ity of the great faults. 

Captain Button is also engaged in the investigation of the micro- 
structure of the rocks of that region, and has made considerable prog- 
ress in the preparation of specimens for microscopic examination. 

Prof. 0. A. White, paleontologist of the division, visited many points 
in Northern Utah, a few in Northwestern Colorado, and a few in South- 
ern Wyoming, making a re-examination of the sedimentary beds of 
that region, and the evidences upon which they had been previously 
separated into groups. Many localities where fossils had been obtained 
in previous years were visited, and other localities were discovered. 
The collections made were from the upper portions of the Carbonifer- 
ous series through the whole series to near the summit of the Tertiary. 
The collections were chiefly of invertebrate fossils and are very full and 
satisfactory. Many new species, and also several types hitherto un- 
known in American strata, have been obtained. It is an interesting 
fact, also, that while the change from a salt or brackish water condition 
of the earlier Tertiary deposits to a wholly fresh-water condition took 
place without producing any perceptible physical change in the charac- 
ter of the strata, the species, mostly molluscan, were more numerous, 
and the differentiation of types much greater during the prevalence 
of salt in the water than at any subsequent time after the waters be- 
came wholly fresh. Indeed, in all the purely fresh-water strata of the 
Tertiary groups the species and genera are few, and there is a remark- 
able uniformity of type throughout. Both branchiferous and pulmonate 
mollusks range through all the Tertiary strata, except that thus far 
none of the latter have been found associated with brackish-water forms. 
The Green Eiver group has furnished several species of insects. Of 
vertebrate remains, some massive fragments of bones of a very large 
saurian, found in Jurassic strata five miles west of Vermilion Canon, 
are worthy of remark. Scales and detached bones of teleost fishes were 
found in considerable abundance in dark shales at the very base of the 
Cretaceous groups at Vermilion CaQon, and also at various other points 
at the same horizon. Teleost fish remains, mostly very perfect, were 
obtained from the Green River group, and also some from other Ter- 
tiary strata. Throughout the whole Tertiary series more or less verte- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

brate remains have been found, but it is the Bridger group that has fur- 
nished the greatest profusion of mammalian, beside many reptilian and 
a few ganoid remains. 

Part of a skeleton of a Passerine bird has been obtained from the 
Green Eiver group. 

Large collections of plants have been made at numerous localities. 
Besides samples of silicilied exogenous wood from numerous horizons 
throughout the Mesozoic and Tertiary series, leaves, stems, «&c., have 
been collected from the Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary strata. These 
are mostly exogenous, but both ferns and palms were found associated 
with them in the Upper Green River group at Alkali Stage Station, 
twenty miles northward from Green liiver City. 

Professor Thompson's party discovered the ruins of many prehistoric 
dwellings similar to those found in former years, and their position will 
be indicated on the ethnographic map. They also discovered on the 
canon-walls and escarpments of the country many Shi'-nu-mo etchings, 
M'hich were co])ied to scale. They ^^ill make a valuable addition to the 
collections of former years. 

While on his travels, Professor Powell met with certain tribes of 
Shoshonilndians whose arts were unrepresented in the National Museum, 
and the o])portunity was seized to make collections of their implements 
and clothing, &c. In all departments, except that of food-plants, these 
Indians are now as fully represented as the Utes, Pai Utes, and Shi'-nu- 
mos by his former collections. Some additions were made to his Sho- 
shoni vocabulary and to his mythologic tales. 

During the past years of the survey, vocabularies have been collected 
of all of the above languages and dialects with the exception of the 
Ko man'-tsu. These are far from being complete, but contain many 
hundred words each, some of them two or three thousand each. 

The grammatic structure of these languages has also been studied to 
some extent, and while no structural principles have been found which 
have not been discovered in other Indian languages, much of value has 
been obtained. 

Mr. L. F. Ward was attached to the division as botanist, and made 
veiy large collections from a region but hitherto little studied. He also 
collected a large suite of wood sections of the various shrub.s and trees 
found in that region. 

Mr. J. K. Hiliers, the photographer, made a series of negatives, 101 in 
number, for topographic and geological purposes, and a series of 10 for 
ethnograiihic purposes. 

The operations of the geographical surveys west of the one hundredth 
meridian, First Lieut. George M. AVheeler in charge, for the season of 
1875 were confined to areas in Colorado, New Mexico, California, and 
Arizona, and were prosecuted in pursuance of aspecial project approved 
by tlie Chief of Engineers and the honorable Secretary of War. 

The working force for the season was organized as follows : (1.) The 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

California, section, under the coinmaud of Lieut. George M. Wheeler, 
Corps of Engineers ; (2.) The Colorado section, under the command of 
Lieut. William L. Marshall, Corps of Engineers ; and (3) the office-force 
in Washington, temporarily in charge of George M. Lockwood, assistant. 

The two sections were constituted with a view to a systematic prose- 
cution of the geodetic and allied work, and the office force was kept contin- 
uously employed uj>on the reductions of observations. From the Cali- 
fornia section a special party under Lieut. Eric Bergland, Corps of En- 
gineers, was detached to make certain preliminary examinations and 
surveys as to the practicability of diverting the Colorado River. These 
labors have been accomj)lished so far as the past field-season would per- 
mit, and Lieutenant Bergland is now engaged in the preparation of his 
report. When received, with the maps and sketches, it will be for- 
warded, with additional information bearing upon the general subject 
of irrigation. 

Four other parties from the California section were busily employed 
during the working summer months ; one, under Lieut. Eogers Birnie, 
jr., moving to the south and east of the lower or southern limit of the 
Sierra Nevadas ; another, under Lieut. C. W. Whipple, Ordnance Corps ; 
and a special party under Dr. H. C. Yarrow for a brief period in the vi- 
cinity of Santa Barbara, Cal. The command of the latter party was 
afterward transferred to Dr. J. T. Roth rock, U. S. A., and was finally 
merged with the main party commanded by the officer in charge. 

The results accomplished were of a highly satisfactory character, and 
the imjirovements introduced noted the transfer to a completely con- 
nected geodetic survey. Connection was had with the base-line meas- 
ured by Captain, now Brig. Gen. E. O. C. Ord, near Los Angeles, Cal., 
in 1854. The developed base and measured triangles in a triple tier 
were carried eastward approximately as far as the one hundred and 
twentieth meridian of longitude. For the first time the correct latitude 
and longitude of what is probably the highest measured peak in the 
United States in the southern Sierras were obtained. The preliminary 
reductions show an altitude of 14,900 feet. 

The Colorado section was composed of three principal parties : one 
under its commanding officer ; the second under Lieut. W. L. Carpenter, 
Ninth Infantry 5 and the third in charge of Lieut C. C. Morrison, Sixth 
Cavalry. Their operations were in continuation of the organized work 
begun by the establishment of a series of main astronomical points 
along the east base of the Rocky Mountains, and the development 
therefrom of a series of measured bases and triangles so as to envelop 
completely the area entered and occupied, and which finally was to be 
connected through from the plains to the Pacific. Their labors were 
conducted with skill, energy, and success. 

The office-force, engaged in computations, map drawing, and other 
reductions, have succeeded in completing three additional atlas sheets 
on a scale one inch to eight miles, and are advancintr toward comple- 
tion the work of five others. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

The condition of the work up to June 30, 1875, appears more fully 
set forth in the annual rej^ort of Lieutenant Wheeler, submitted to the 
Chief of Engineers. 

' A portion of the field-force is now busily employed in the prepara- 
tion of the final results at the office of the survey in Washington. 

CONOLUSION. 

From the foregoing statements I trust it will be evident to all inter- 
ested in the prosperity of the Institution that it is successfully prosecut- 
ing the plan best adapted for realizing the intentions of its founder ; that 
its funds are in a good condition and that its reputation and usefulness 
since the date of the last report have suffered no diminution. 
Eespect fully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Washington, January, 187G. 



58 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Smithsonian Institution, 
WasJdngton, January 3, 1876, 

Sir : I have the honor to present herewith an account of the proposed 
plan of exhibition by the Smithsonian Institution at the International 
Centennial Exhibition, and the extent to which the work has been car- 
ried on. 

History of the movement. — On the 23d of January, 1874, the President 
of the United States called upon the various Departments of the Gov- 
ernment, including the Smithsonian Institution, to nominate one mem- 
ber each, to constitute a board, in behalf of the Executive Departments, 
to which should be committed the preparation and adoption of a plan 
for a collective exhibition, at the International Exhibition of 1876, " of 
such articles and material as will illustrate the functions and adminis- 
trative faculties of the Government in time of peace and its resources 
as a war-i30wer, and thereby serve to demonstrate the nature of our 
institutions and their adaptation to the wants of the people." 

The persons designated, in response to the call of the President, were 
the following : 

By the Secretary of the Treasury, F. M. Sawyer. 

By the Secretary of War, Col. S. C. Lyford, U. S. A. 

By the Secretary of the Navy, Aduiiral T. A. Jenkins, U. S. N. 

By the Secretary of the Interior, John Eaton. 

By the Postmaster-General, Dr. Charles F. McDonald. 

By the Department of Agriculture, William Saunders. 

By the Smithsonian Institution, S. F. Baird. 

On the 25th of March, 1874, the nominations were accepted by the 
President for the board referred to, and Col. S. C. Lyford was desig- 
nated as chairman. Subsequently, on the retirement of Mr. Sawyer, 
Mr. R. W. Tayler was appointed in behalf of the Treasury Department. 

The first business before the board being that of preparing a general 
plan of the exhibition and estimates of the cost of carrying this out for 
each Department, the following estimates were made, after a careful 
consideration of the subject, as being absolutely necessary to accomplish 
the work on a proper scale : 

Interior Department $211, 000 

Treasury Department 5, 000 

Post-OflQco Department 5, 000 

Agricultural Department 50, 000 

Smithsonian Institution, (National Museum) , 100, 000 

War Department 200, 000 

Navy Department 150, 000 

Add for show-cases, shelving, incidentals, &c 50, 000 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 59 

For a separate buildiug, capable of removal to Wasliingtoh 
after the close of tlieExbibitiou,to be used as a National Mu- 
seum at the capital of the nation SliOO, 000 



971,000 



These estimates were reduced by the Commitlee on Appropriations, 
which presented to Congress the following, which was passed without 
opposition from any quarter: 

War Department $133, 000 

Navy Department 100, 000 

Interior Department 115, 000 

Treasury Department 5, 000 

Post-Office Department 5, 000 

Agricultural Department « 50, 000 

Smithsonian Institution 67, 000 

United States Commission of Food-Fishes 5, 000 

For show-cases, shelving, stationery, postage, telegrams, ex- 

pressage, and incidentals 25, 000 



505, 000 



Authority was also given in the enactment to erect any building or 
part of a buildiug that might be necessary ; to be " paid for jjro rata out 
of the sums appropriated to the several Departments, the United States 
Commission of Food-Fishes, the Treasury and Post-Office Departments 
excei)ted, the cost of the building uot to exceed one hundred and fifty 
thousand dollars ; said building to be sold at the close of the Exhibition 
and the proceeds covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts." 

Authority was given to the heads of the several Executive Depart- 
ments to display at the Exhibition, under such conditions as they might 
I)rescribe, all such articles in store or under the control of such Depart- 
ments as might be necessary or desirable to render the collection com- 
l)lete and exhaustive ; but the board were forbidden to expend any larger 
Slim than was set down for each Dei)artment, or to enter into any con- 
tract or engagement that should result in any such increased expenditure. 

The next question presented to the board for its consideration was 
that of the space required by the several Departments, and whether it 
would be necessary to erect a special building. Of course it was quite 
impossible at so short notice to decide as to the space needed, and ap- 
proximate estimates only could be presented. Indeed, in all cases it has 
])r()ved that the area originally decided upon was far below what has 
since been found necessary, and almost daily demands for increased 
accommodations are made by some branch or other of the Government. 

In regard to the matter of accommodations, inquiry was first directed 
to the Centennial authorities in Philadelphia as to whether a building 



60 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

would be erected by them for the Government board j or, if not, whether 
space could be had in the main building. The board was informed, in 
response, that it would be impossible to put up a special building, but 
that space might be had in the general buildings of the Exhibition, pro- 
vided the objects could be divided and classified according to the plan 
adopted by the commission. This, however, would have involved the 
separation of the various elements of the Government display and pre- 
vented its exhibition as a whole, and it was finally concluded to erect a 
building on ground assigned by the Centennial Commission, and in a 
very excellent situation. 

After discussing the various plans for buildings submitted to the 
board, contracts were entered into for the erection of an edifice to cover 
102,000 square feet of surface, and the work being i)ut in hand, it has 
been prosecuted so rapidly as to be now nearly completed. Of the 
space in this building, 20,000 feet have been assigned to the Smithsonian 
Institution and 0,000 feet to the United States Fish Commission. 

Plan of exhibition proposed by the Smithsonian Institution. — After a 
careful consideration of the subject, it was concluded that the most suit- 
able exhibition on the part of the Smithsonian Institution should em- 
brace, in the first place, the history, condition, functions, workings, and 
general results of the Institution itself; in the second, a display of the 
mineral and animal resources, as well as of the ethnology, of the United 
States, the Agricultural Department proposing to include the various 
subjects connected with the vegetable kingdom in its division. As the 
Interior Department desired to make a ver^' exhaustive exhibition of 
everything relating to the Indian tribes of the United States, an arrange- 
ment was made with the Indian Bureau by the Smithsonian Institution, 
to join in a single display of the ethnology and archseology of the 
United States, to be held in the space assigned to the Indian Depart- 
ment and credited to the Indian Bureau. As the National Museum, in 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, already embraces very large col- 
lections of this character, it was proposed to confine the action on the 
part of the Indian Bureau to explorations, investigations, and collections 
in those parts of the United States which were not already properly 
represented. In this way any duplication would be avoided. 

The display of the United States Fish Commission, although named as 
a separate division in the bill appropriating funds for the purpose of 
exhibition, naturally belongs to that of the Smithsonian Institution, 
and was arranged to form a special division of " the fisheries " in the 
scheme already referred to ; so that finally five divisions were provided 
for : first, the Smithsonian Institution ; second, the mineral wealth of 
the United States; third, the animal resources; fouith, the fisheries; 
and, fifth, the ethnology of the country. 

Progress of the icorlc. — I now proceed, in accordance with your instruc- 
tions, to present some fuller details of the proposed exhibition, and an 
account of what has been done in these several divisions. 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. SI 

I. 

The display by the Smithsonian Institution of what pertains to its 
own operations, apart from anything connectevl with the National 
Museum, will consist of a series of tables illustrating some of its more 
important branches, such as its system of iuteruational exchanges, its 
publications, its explorations and researches, its twenty-five-year i)eriod 
of meteorological observations, &c. This will include its series of 
twenty quarto volumes of Smithsonian contributions to knowledge, 
thirteen volumes of miscellaneous collections, and thirty volumes of an- 
nual reports. 

Mr. W. L. Nicholson, of the Post-OfiQce Department, has been engaged 
in constructing a large map of the United States, in twenty sheets, cov- 
ering a space of sixteen by twelve feet, on a scale of IG miles to the 
inch. Upon one or more of these maps will be shown the temperatures, 
the rain fall, the biirometric pressure, the winds, &c., of the United 
States for the twenty-five years' mean. 

II. 

A display of the mineral resources of a countr^N' like the United States, 
so varied in character, was necessarily a very laborious undertaking, 
and the Institution was lortunate enough to secure the aid, as director 
of this part of the exhibition, of Prof. William P. Blake, a gentleman 
of much experience as a geologist, mining engineer, and mineralogist, 
and one who, by his ofiflcial connection with the Expositions at Paris 
and Vienna, and as having had much to do with the original organiza- 
tion of the Centennial Commission in Philadelphia, was able to render 
very valuable service. He entered upon his duties on the 1st of May, 
1875, and commenced by organizing a general plan of exploration, 
and establishing correspondence, preparing blank instructions, circulars, 
&c. Of these the following were prepared and published : First, a gen- 
eral circular, stating the proposed plan of the mineral exhibition, and 
giving an invitation to contribute specimens; second, sketch of the 
proposed character of the display to be made and its systematic arrange- 
ment ; third, a list of prominent gentlemen in different States from whom 
aid might be expected, and whose co-operation was formally requested; 
fourth, instructions for packing, collections for shipment; fifth, labels 
for the specimens ; sixth, labels of address for the boxes; seventh, blank 
invoices for enumerating the contents of the boxes. Many thousands of 
these were printed and circulated throughout the country with very 
excellent results. Mr. Blake himself, after his preliminary work was 
accomplished, visited many i)arts of the country in the interest of the 
Institution, and especiallj^ the mining regions of Pennsylvania, New 
Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Ohio, Missouri, Michi- 
gan, Wisconsin, and other States. 
'? As far back as 1873 the Board of Finance of the Centennial Commission 



62 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

made an arraugement with Mr. Thomas Donaldson, one of the Centen- 
nial commissioners of Idaho, to visit the principal mining regions west 
of the Kocky Mountains, at its expense, for the purpose of collecting 
illustrations of the resources of the country in gold, silver, and mercury. 
Fortified by letters of credit from the commission, Mr. Donaldson pro- 
ceeded on his mission, and was enabled to secure many valuable collec- 
tions at little or no cost ; the proprietors of mines especially manifest- 
ing a desire to be appropriately represented in the Exhibition and pre- 
senting many specimens not only interesting in a scientific point of view, 
but of much intrinsic value. 

*^ A concession, at the same time, was obtained by Mr. Donaldson from 
the railroad companies between Philadelphia and San Francisco by 
which they agreed to transport a given number of tons of these minerals 
free of charge, and thus greatly to reduce the cost of the enterprise. 
'^ After the organization of the Government board on Executive Depart- 
ments, the Board of Finance came to the conclusion that it was not expe- 
dient for the Centennial Commission to undertake a separate display of 
minerals, and an arrangement was, therefore, made to turn over the 
collections made by Mr. Donaldson to the Smithsonian Institution on 
payment of the expenses incurred and its agreement to continue the en- 
gagement with Mr. Donaldson to the end of the year 1875. This was 
done to the satisfaction of all parties, so that since the 8th of May Mr. 
Donaldson has been in the employ of the Institution, and the collections 
made by him are in Philadelphia or on the way thither. " 

The State geologists of a number of the States have also co-operated in 
the efforts toward a mineral exhibition, and also a large number of pro- 
prietors of mining establishments and others who had it in their power 
to render any aid. 

The present prospect in regard to the mineral display is entirely sat- 
isfactory. It is believed that no important interest in this direction will 
be unrepresented, and that the general exhibition, to consist of ores and 
their metals, with their slags and by-products, the crude and refined 
metals, the building-stones, the clays, the marbles, the coals, slates, &c., 
will be quite a perfect picture of the industries as at present developed 
throughout the United States. There will be also a series of the simple 
applications of the different substances, such as the petroleum products, 
the coal-tar products, specimens of terra-cotta, pottery, and porcelain as 
illustrating the clays, some manufactured articles of the metals, pol- 
ished slabs of the marbles, &c. 

Care has been taken to obtain the various specimens in sufficient size 
to make an imposing feature j the metals and coals, as far as possible, 
having been selected in cubes of two feet each way ; the building-stones 
are in cubes of twelve and six inches, the latter size having been adopted 
for most of the ores also. 

It is proposed to exhibit on the large Smithsonian map the geological 
features of the country, as also the general distribution of the valuable 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. G3 

minerals and the extent to which mines of the same have been opened 
and prosecnted. Arrangements have been made for a display of the 
choice minerals of the country, principally as a loan from several pri- 
vate cabinets in Philadelphia and elsewhere. 

III. 

The display of the animal resources of the country will also be very- 
extensive and interesting, as embracing, in the first place, an exhibi- 
tion of all the species capable of any economical application to the 
wants of mankind, and, secondly, such forms as have special inter- 
est to the naturalist. This will have three divisions: first, the repre- 
sentations of the animals themselves, either living, stuffed, molded in 
plaster, or photographed; secondly, the applications of these animals 
in whole or in part; and, third, the apparatus by which they are pur- 
sued, captured, and utilized. This division will naturally fall into the 
primary classification of the mammals, the birds, the reptiles, the fishes, 
and the invertebrates, land and marine. 

Among the mammals, mounted in the best manner, and in their stages 
of age, sex, and season, will be shown those of most importance as food, 
such as the different species of deer, including the moose, elk, and cari- 
boo, the musk-ox, the buffalo, &c. The fur-bearing species will be rep- 
resented by the bears, grizzly, brown, black, white, &c. ; the foxes, 
black, cross, gray, kit, &c. ; wolves, fur-seals, sea-lions, sables, minks, 
&c. Those furnishing oil will be the whales, the porpoises, and other 
cetaceans. The other species, furnishing leather, bone, «&c., will also be 
represented. 

The birds will include all the forms that are appreciated as being eat- 
able and as supplying feathers, plumes, &c., for purposes of ornament 
or domestic utility. The kinds specially beneficial or injurious to the 
farmer will also be exhibited. 

Among the reptiles will be included the edible frogs, terrapins, sea- 
turtles, the alligator, as furnishing food, leather, oil, &c. 

The fishes will be shown in very great variety, to include, for the most 
part, plaster-casts, colored from nature, of the most important species. 
Some specimens will be shown in alcohol, while others will be repre- 
sented by photographs. Of the casts, including the cetaceans, over five 
hundred are more or less complete, some of them fifteen feet long. 

Among the objects of the fifth division will be the eatable mollusks, 
such as the oyster in its different varieties, the clams, the eatable crabs, 
lobsters, sponges, and many other forms, both land and aquatic. 

The second series of the animal display will consist of a systematic 
presentation of the applications of these animals, such as the different 
preparations of food, whether as dried, smoked, salted, pickled, or 
canned ; second, of the various applications of the teeth, bones, horn, 
&G., for ornaments or other uses ; third, of the preparations of fur, 



64 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

hides, leather, and the like; fourth, of the different varieties of oils ; 
fifth, miscellaneous applications. 

Under the head of furs will be shown dressed skins of all the varieties 
of fur-bearing- animals of the United States, in their different grades, as 
occurring in different seasons of the year and from different parts of the 
country, as well as some simple applications of some of these furs to 
articles of dress or ornament. In this series will also be included 
dressed skins of birds and ornamental feathers. 

The divisions of the bones and teeth will embrace the various forms 
of carving, knife-handles, umbrella-handles, &c. In this division will 
be included whalebone and its applications. 

The oils will be exhibited in sufficient quantity for comparison, includ- 
ing those of all the different species of whales, cetaceans, alligators, 
crocodiles, the various fishes, &c. 

The third series, that of apparatus, will represent the dress and 
equipment of the hunter and fisherman, whether savage or civilized, 
while pursuing their game, together with the different forms of boats, 
sledges, snow-shoes, &c., made use of for the same purpose. There will 
also be the various arms and implements in the way of rifles, guns, pis- 
tols for hunting, nets, traps of every kind, fire-jacks, &c., for the sports- 
man and trapper, and for the fisherman fish-hooks, lines, floats, rods, 
reels, nets, pounds, models of fishing-smacks of various kinds, &c. 

IV. 

The preparations for an exhibition illustrating the fisheries of the 
[Jnited States have involved a great deal of labor, in consequence of the 
want of experience in this country of displays of this character, so that 
the general plan and classification had to be almost entirely improvised 
as a whole. It is, however, to be hoped that the measures that hate 
been taken will result in showing the general nature and extent of our 
interests in this direction. It is, of course, evident that the display of 
animals of the country must have the inhabitants of the water as a 
prominent feature, as also their application for food, oils, glues, &c., 
and they cannot well be separated. 

The apparatus, however, by which they are followed, captured, and 
applied to the purposes of life will represent satisfactorily this portion 
of the programme. It is much more difficult to present attractive ex- 
hibition of the fishes of the country than the mammals or birds, as they 
are generally only shown as alcoholic specimens, which are always 
more or less unsightly ; and, at any rate, only the smaller can be thus 
preserved. On this account, the plan of a display of plaster-casts of the 
actual fish, colored from nature, has been adopted. The work of making 
these casts has been prosecuted with quite a large force of assistants 
ever since the passage of th • appropriation, specimens in the best pro- 
curable condition having been sent to Washington, mostly packed in ice, 
where a colored sketch is at once taken of them. They are next photo- 



CENTENNIAL EXllIIilTION. G5 

gni plied, and then ii mold taken in plaster of Paris. The casts aro 
tinally made either in papier-maclie or plaster and colored from the 
sketches referred to. 

This work was also piosecnted durin<>' a four months' residence at 
Wood's Hole, on Cape Cod. 

The series of casts thus taken is very extensive, end)racing' nearly six 
hundred specimens, illustrating the Hshes of tiie ccean, the hikes, and 
the rivers of the United States, and incUniiiig nearly all the species 
known to the professional or the amateur tlsherman. In this collection, 
also, is embraced the seals, and the different sj)e(-ies of cetaceans, such as 
the porpoise, the black lish, grampus, white whale, &c., the whole display 
being-, it is believed, far in advance of an>> thing that has ever been at- 
tempted heretofore. 

It is also proposed to make an exhibition of sucdi living spec'ies as 
can conveniently be procured. This teatuie wi(i probably be shown in 
the agricultural building, under the chaige of tne agricultural branch 
of the United States Centennial Commission, and [ pro[)ose to render 
whatever assistance lies in my power i . snpi)lying the specimens. 

Another interesting feature o( this division will be the exhibition of 
the tish themselves in a fresh state in a refrigerator, covered with a 
glass top, and under tlie special direction of Mr. E. G. Blacklord, a well- 
known fish-dealer in New York. This gentleman has undertaken not 
only to put up the refrigerator, but to keej) it stocked every day with 
various tishes from all portions of the United States. He will arrange 
with some of the restaurants on the grounds to take the tish at the 
close of the day and to serve thenr up to those calling for them. 

The second division, that of the applications of the lish, will consist, in 
the first j)lace, of food-preparations, whether smoked, dried, salted, 
pickled, (tanned, or otherwise treated. Next will conre the glues, gela- 
tines, sizings, &c. : then the ecorroruical or ormimental aj)plications of 
the scales; and, tinally, the oils and the guanos ami miscellaneous uses. 
In this same exhibition will be included the vegetable and mineial 
pr'oducts of the sea, such as the inlusorial earths, greeirsand, the various 
alga3, &c., the latter with their api>lication as manures, and also in the 
marnrfacture of soda, iodine, and other substances. 

The third division of this subje(;t will consist of as complete a series 
as possible of the api)aratirs used in connection with the lisheries, and 
will embrace models or full-size s[)ecimens of the various ships, steam- 
ers, smacks, boats, canoes, smoke and cirring houses, nets, traps, pounds, 
r-ods, reels, hooks, lines, artiticial baits, &c., and a variety of other arti- 
cles too numerous to nrentiorr. A prominent idea will be the exhibition, 
either separately or in collective divisioirs, of whatever illustrates the 
different classes of the lisheries. Taking the whale-lisher-y as an illus- 
tration, tlrer-e will be showir skeletons of several species of whale, 
together with the whalebone, occupying its natural position in the 
mouth. Wooden models of the large whales, and i)laster-casts of the 
S. Mis. ilu J 



66 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

smaller ones, will also be exliibited.. The different kinds of oil, sper- 
maceti, ambergris, sperm-whales' teeth, &c.,wi!l be presented, with their 
application, such as the purified oils and caudles ; the different uses of 
the whalebone, for domestic, surgical, or other purposes; the sperm- 
whale's teeth, as carved into various articles of ornament or utility; the 
sperm-whale's jaw-bone, as used for knife-handles and. other purposes, 
&c. There will also be models of whale-ships of different varieties, 
everything being made to a scale ; a full-sized whale-boat, with all its 
equipments of harpoons, bomb-lances, spades, lances, lines, tubs, &c., 
together with small models of the same, and several groups, representing 
scenes connected with the whale-fishery, as well as several separate 
drawings made expressly for this exhibition. 

The menhaden-fishery will be exhibited also by figures, photographs, 
and casts of fish themselves, and by a working-model of the factory in 
which the fish are steamed and pressed for their oil and scrap, and a 
model of the Wood's Hole factory, where this menhaden scrap or refuse 
is converted into an important fertilizer; a model of the establishment 
where first they are scaled and prepared as sardines; as also the dif- 
ferent kinds of nets used, with a model of the kind of steamer by which 
these fish are pursued. The different preparation of the fish will also be 
shown. 

The oyster industry will be also represented by all the varieties of 
oysters known on both coasts of the United States, with their trade or 
local name, with specimens of the animals that prey upon them. This 
will also embrace specimens of the eastern oyster transported to the 
western coast as undergoing certain known modifications. The various 
oyster sloops, rakes, and other devices, will also be shown. 

The other fisheries illustrated will be those of the cod, the mackerel, 
the herring, shad, salmon, the sponge, coral, &c. 

The fourth division of the fisheries will be the illustrations of pisci- 
culture or artificial j)ropagati()n. Here will bo shown the models of the 
United States establishments for securing and hatching the eggs of the 
salmon and shad ; illustrations of the various boxes, spawning-races, 
&c., and the fish- ways or fish-ladders, all in full-size representations, or 
in models. 

The actual process of hatching out the eggs of fish and rearing the 
young will also be exhibited, in connection with the Agricultural Bureau 
division of the centennial disjilay. It is exi)ected that for a consider- 
able part of the time of the exhibition the eggs of the Caliibrnia salmon 
can be secured, this being a species well suited to illustrate the changes 
undergone in actual incubation, the egg being as large as a common 
currant, and permitting the various stages of development to be readily 
observed. 

In connection with this exhibition of the fisheries, steps have been 
taken toward securing complete reports of tlie past and present history 
of many of our important industries. Among them that of the whale- 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. (57 

fisliery, the menhaden, the mackerel, &c. The report on the •wlcJc- 
fishery will include a list of all the vessels, as far as practicable, tiiat 
have ever been fitted out from the several whaling ports of the United 
States, to,';ether with the yield of oil, bone, and s|)crm for each year, 
and their respective prices. 

Tlie menhaden report will contain similar data I'or that fish, together 
with an exhaustive account of the yield in 1874 and 1875. Steps liave 
also been taken to obtain a list of all the vessels used in these fisheries, 
arranged as to their tonnage, names of owners, captains, and the nature 
of the service perfornu'd by them. 

Y. 

The fiftli division of the exhibition of the National IMuseum is 
intended to illustrate the past and present condition of the native tribes 
of tlie United States, or its anthropology, and in view of the very great 
interest in subjects of this character, it was determined to make a 
special effort to render the display exhaustive and complete. As, how- 
ever, the Indian Bureau of the Interior Department contemplated a 
somewhat similar exhibition, it was thought best to unite the two, and 
to conduct the efforts of each upon a systematic plan, and so as to avoid 
duplication. This was specially proper, as any collections made by the 
Indian Bureau would, under the law of Congress, be turned over to the 
Smithsonian Institution for safe-keeping, as soon as their temporary 
functions had been fuKilled. 

For the better presentation of the subject to collectors and corre- 
spondents. Prof. O. T. Mason, of Columbian University, was requested 
by you to draw up a systematic schedule of the various articles of 
clothing, ornaments, household utensils, implements of agriculture, 
weapons of war and the chase, tools of trade, the apparatus used for 
the ])ursuit and capture of game, &c., and a pamphlet was accordingly 
prepared by this gentleman, embracing over six hundred subjects. 
Copies of this pamphlet were then sent by the Indian Bureau to all its 
agents, and by the Smithsonian Institution to its correspondents, with 
the request that they would indicate by a mark on the list the articles 
that could be obtained, and return them to Washington. This was done 
to a considerable extent, and authotity was given in many cases to 
proceed in making the collection. SeveraU gentlemen of much experi- 
ence in ethnological researches were also emi)loyed by the Bureau to 
secure complete collections from the tribes within their reach. Among 
those appointed for this purpose were Mr. James G. Swan, for the 
Alaska and Paget Sound tribes; Maj. J. W. Powell, for those of ll^tah 
and Wyoming; and Mr. Stephen Powers, for those of Nevada and Cali- 
fornia, all of whom have been diligently occupied in carrying out their 
instructions. 

Pcsearches in the department of archaeology proper, or the ancient 
implements of stone, metal, and earthenware, were also prosecuted on 



68 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

a large scale, especially on the south coast of California, where, within 
the historical period, the tribes were numerous and intelligent. These, 
however, have long since been exterminated, and their history is only 
to be read from the articles buried in their graves. 

For the puri)ose of properly working this field, arrangements were 
made jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Indian Bureau 
with Mr. Paul Schumacher to proceed with a party and prosecute his 
explorations. The Treasury De})artment authorized tlie trausportatiou 
of the party to the islands ou a revenue-cutter, and the War Dei)artment 
furnished rations at cost price, as well as teuts, &c., while the United 
States Coast Survey extended the courtesy of one of its surveying- 
vessels, under Captain Taylor. With these facilities, Mr. Schumacher 
gathered a large, number of articles, some tons in weight, and rei>re- 
senting a great variety of very choice specimens, such as stoue mortars, 
pestles, ornaments of stone, shell, bone, &c. 

Simultaneously with this labor of Mr. Schumacher, Lieutenant 
Wheeler, of the Engineer Bureau, had a party in the vicinity of Santa 
Barbara, in charge of Dr. H. C. Yarrow, which also made iini)ortaut col- 
lections. In tile same field and with satisfactory results. Rev. Stephen 
Bowers has also been occupied in behalf of the Centennial display. 

Understanding that there were numerous remains of a similar charac- 
ter in Oregon, Mr. Schumacher, with a small party, proceeded there in 
September last, and obtained some articles of interest. 

The mtiny correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution were also in- 
vited, by means of a circular, to make contributions to the same depart- 
ment. Tlie returns have already been very great, amounting to many 
thousands of stone implements of every kind and character. 

In some instances gentlemen who were not willing to present their 
collections permanently, have consented to lend them for the Exhibition, 
and these will be caretuliy kept separate and returned at its close. 

The labors of Mr. Swan, like those of Mr. Schumacher, were greatly 
facilitated by the action of the Treasury Department in placing the 
revenue-cutter Oliver Woh^ott at his disposal, by means of which he 
was enabled to visit many Indian tribes on Puget Sound and elsewhere, 
otherwise inaccessible. 

In addition to what has already been acknowledged, the War Depart- 
ment has also rendered much assistance by instructing quartermasters 
to receive and forward packages delivered to them for the purpose of 
the Centennial display. The amount of material tlius obtained from 
all sources has been very great, and is continually increasing, so that 
there is little question that, so far as inanimate objects are concerned, 
scarcely anything will be wanting in the elements of a satisfactory ex- 
position. This will contain several hundred lay figures, of life size, 
properly dressed, with the clothing and ornaments of their own tribe, 
illustrating their various grades of rank as well as ages and sex, as also 
models or actual representations of their dwellings, their boats, snow- 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 09 

shoes, hoivsps and (lo<»s, and their traj>piii<^s, iin])le!nents ofhnntinjif itiid 
tishiii<;, afiiieiiltuial tools, and indeed ever.>thin<;' else that ean be 
lliouj^ht of. 

Amonfjf the more eonspicnons objects already eolleeted by ]Mr. Swau 
are a Uaidah canoe, GO i'cet long, S IV'ct wide, and 4 1'ee't hijih, cut from 
a single log of cedar, profusely ornamented with carvings and paintings 
in the manner of the natives, with several other canoes 30 feet long; 
also several carved posts, 00 (eet high, such as are set in front of the 
dwellings of the IJaiilah chiefs; maltiials lor a complete dwelling, 100 
feet long by 20 wide, and many other things not necessaiy to enumerate. 

The selection ot ethnological objeets for exhibition at the Centennial 
has been intrusted to Dr. Charles liau, one of the most eminent of 
American ethnologists, who is jireparing an elaborate report upon the 
subject, with numerous illusti-ations, which will shortly be printeii. 

One feature which promised to be of very great interest, but which 
the reduction of the estimaties for the Government divsi)lay rendered im- 
practicable, was that of an exhibition of living representatives of the 
principal Indian tribes, each series to embrace iron) four to eight per- 
sons, of dift'erent sexes and ages, to be brought to Philadelphia with 
their native clothing, imiilemeuts, utensils, ap])aratus, and dwellings; 
tlie whole to be grouped on a reservation of the Centennial grounds, 
wheie they could carry on their various occupations, including the 
practice of their aboriginal arts; the Navajoes to show their methods 
of weaving blankets and belts; the Pueblos, their manufacture of pot- 
tery; the Piutes, the construction of their stxine implements; other 
tribes their baskt^twork; the Blackfeet their method of dressing buffalo 
and other skins, &c. The plan embraced the presentation of some 
twenty or more tribes, Iroin the Esquimaux of Northwestern Alaska 
to the Seminole, and fiom the Passamaquoddy Indians of Maine to 
those of San Diego, California. The expense of such an enterprise 
would, of course, be very great, involving not only the transportation of 
the Indians ami an agent and interpreter to and from Philadelphia, 
but also their subsistence during the exhibition. There is reason, how- 
ever, to believe that no feature on that occasion would be more inter- 
esting to our own people and to foreign visitors than the one referred 
to; and it is to be hoped that authority may be granted by Congress, 
in season for the purpose. In anticipation of such action the Indian 
agents have been instru(;ted to make their selections of families and be 
in readiness to act when notilied by telegraph or otherwise. 

I have thus jireseuted a sketch of the displays that are considered 
desirable for the Smithsonian Institution and the United Stal<'s Fish 
Commission to make in the International Exhibition, although, to carry 
it out to its utmost completeness, so as to be a credit to the nation, 
v> ill require the a])i)roi)riation by Congress of the remainder of the sum 
originally estimated as necessary for the pur])Ose. A work of snch 
magnitude, of course requii'cs the employment ot a great many ])ersons, 



70 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

as well as much expeuse for the acquisitiou of objects and their prepa- 
ration for exhibition. 

A large force of taxidermists is at present engaged at the Smithsonian 
Institution in doing the necessary work, and sufficient progress has 
been made to warrant the belief that with sufficient means everything 
will be completed in time for the opening of the Exhibition. Tbe cost 
of putting these articles in attractive cases will, however, be very con- 
siderable, and must be provided for. 

An important consideration in connection with these displays is tbe 
tact that their service will not be limited to the period of the Centennial 
year ; but, as the material all belongs to the Government and to the 
National Museum, it will all be brought back to Washington, where, 
with proper facilities to be furnished by Congress, it will be displayed 
to interested visitors, it is to be hoi)ed for centuries to come. 

So far as the ethnological display is concerned it is quite rea- 
sonable to infer that by the expiration of a second hundred- 
year period of the life of the American republic, the Indians will 
have entirely ceased to present any distinctive characters, and will be 
merged in the general poi)ulation. It is more than probable that the 
ethnological collection now being made by the Government will be the 
only exposition of the past; and with each succeeding year these speci- 
mens will become more valuable and more highly appreciated. 

The permanent exhibition, too, so complete and exhaustive, of the 
mineral wealth of the country will also be a matter of great importance. 
It is propose. 1 to arrange these collections by States, and even by min- 
ing districts, and as new mines are opened to have them properly 
exhibited in their series. Nowhere else than in Washington could such 
a collection be brought together, and nowhere else would it be of so 
great service in furnishing the means for a proper ai)preciation of the 
iniueral wealth of the Territories and of the different States. The same 
reasoning, of course, applies to the other departments of the animal re- 
sources of the United States, and of the fisheries; and the whole, when 
combined, may be made to constitute a perpetual exhibition of the 
resources of the country, as derived from the animal and mineral kiug- 
(h^ms, as well as from its ethnology. 

In this connection it must not be forgotten that the expense of pre- 
paring the special anthropological collection for the Centennial has been 
borne almost entirely by the Indian Bureau, from its portion of the 
Centennial fund given by Congress to the Interior Department. The 
direction, however, of the work has been intrusted by the Commissioner 
of Indian Affairs to the Smithsonian Institution, as the coiL-ctious made 
will, under the law of Congress, become ultimately a portion of the 
National Museum under its charge. 

It will, however, be readily understood that the Smithsonian Build- 
mg will be entirely inadequate to accommodate this collection on its 
return from Philadelphia, especially as even now it is overcrowded and 

/ 



CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 71 

])n<!k('d I'loiii top to bottom with tliousniids of boxes, for the proijer 
exhibition of the contents of which tlieie is no si)acc or op[)ortunity iit 
the present time. It is to be hoped that action at an early day will be 
taken by Con,y:ress looking: toward a itro{»er ])rovision for this emergency, 
esi)ecially when it is realized that the materials aie thus available for a 
jS^ational Museum that shall be equal, in its extent and completeness and 
in its educational advantages, to that of any nation in the world. 

The collections made directly through the Government appropriations 
will also be very largely supplemented by the donation of series of 
American ami foreign exhibitors, a very large proportion of which will 
be placed at the disposal of the United States Government. 

Another subject which will require early consideration will be the 
best mode of distributing the du[>licate specimens, of which vast num- 
bers will be on hand at the close of the Exhibition, and it is probable 
that an appropriation by Congress will be needed for the arrangement, 
labeling, packing, and boxing of these specimens. Several hundred 
sets of these objects can be made up for the principal educational, liter- 
ary, and scientific institntions throughout the country. 

It may be remembered that several years ago Congress appropriated 
$10,000 for the expenses of distributing the duplicates then in the 
National Museum, with the proviso that the freight be paid by the 
recipients. Under this enactment nearly a quarter of a million of 
labeled specimens were supplied to several hundred institutions through- 
out the country, and have doubtless answered an excellent purpose in 
furnishing the means of instruction. The surplus available for such a 
distribution at the close of the International Exhibition, even after all 
exchanges have been made, will be very much greater than on the 
occasion referred to. 

Eespectfully, yours, 

SPENCEE F. BATED, 
Representative of the Smithsonian Institution 

and of the Department of Food- Fishes in 

Government Centennial Board. 

Prof. Joseph Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



72 



ADDITIONS TO TUE COLLECTIONS. 



Table sJioicing the number of entries in the record-books of the United 
States I\atio7ial Museum at the close of the years 1874 and 1875, respect- 
ively. 



Class. 



1874. 



187 



jManinials 
Birds ... 



Kep tiles and anipljibiaus 

Fishes 

Skiiletons aud skulls 

Egg9 

CinstaceauH 

Annelids 

Mollnsks 

Radiates 

Invertebrate fossils 

Minerals 

Ethnological specimens 

Add for centennial volume, 24751-2C)0l>2 . 

Total 



Increase for 1~75 



12, 294 

68, 361 

8, 293 

13, 808 

14,408 

17, 062 

2, 204 

100 

25, 757 

3,142 

7,727 

9, 178 

16, 415 



197,749 



12, 462 

70, 378 

8,410 

16, 649 

15, 363 

17, 249 

2,210 

100 

26, 757 

3,148 

7,905 

9,394 

20,000 

302 



210, 327 



12, 578 



ADDITIONS TO TQE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION (UNITED ST2VTES NATIONAL MUSEUM) IN 

1875. 

Abbott, Dr. C. C. Cast of prehistoric mask ; box and package of arrow- 
points fiom New Jersey. 

Abert, GeneralJ. T. Skin of albino cedar bin], {Ampelis cedrorum.) 

Adam, Joseph 8. Speeiniens of marble from Canaan, Conn. 

Adams, George E. Three skins of fur-seal (Callorhinus ursinns) and 
skin of arctic fox {Vulpes lagopus) from Saint George's Island, Pry- 
bilov group, Alaska. 

Aiken, Charles E. Skin of Abert's squirrel, [Sciurus Abcrtii ;) eggs of 
rufous owl, {Scojys fammeola,) VVoodliouse's jay, {Cyanocitta Wood- 
housii,) blue partridge, [Calhpcpla squamata ;) skins of Eocky Mount- 
ain slieei), {Oris montana ;) 5 skins of mountain-buflalo, {Bison ameri- 
canus ;) and specimens, in fle.sli, of coyote, [Canis latrans,) U lynxes, 
{Lyn.v rnfus,) and jack-rabbit, {Lcpus callotis,) from Colorado. 

Akhurst, John. Stone pestle from Croton Lake, N. Y. 

Alaska Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. Nine mun)nnes from 
Kagemil group, Aleutian Islands, Alaska, and one from Prince Wil- 
liam's Sound; 20 skins of fur-seal, {Callorhinus ursinns,) from Alaska, 
5 of sea-lion, {Eumetopias stelleri,) aud many other objects. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 73 

AUlrich^ Charles. S[)e('iinens of wood cut by stone ax, from Colorado; 
i.-lay [)ii)e from San Juan Kiver, IST. Mex. 

Ambler, IL C. Speciuiens of minerals from West Virginia. 

American Sardine Company, New York City. One dozen boxes of 
"American sardines," {Breroortla meuhaden,) preserved in oil. 

American Whip Company, Westjield, Ma.ss. Collection illustrating man- 
ufacture of whips from whalebone. 

Ames, James T. Barrel and box of emery specimens from Chester, Mass. 

Anderson, William. Arrow-heads, polished stones, &c., from lioseville, 
Ohio. 

A7iderson, W. F. Specimens of gahisite from Virginia City, Nev. * 

Angel, Dr. Manuel Urlbe y, and Luis Johnson. Earthenware from Indian 
graves in Manizalez, Colombia, S. A. 

Aquarial Gardens, Boston, Mass., ( W. E. Balcer.) Two specimens, iu flesh, 
of common seal, {Phoea rutnllna.) 

Amy, General W. F. M. Specimens of implements and clothing of 
Navajo and Apache Indians of Arizona; insects from Bonito Cauon, 
Arizona. 

Babcocl; Dr. W. H. Alligator eggs and oil from Central Florida. 

Bagot, Samuel 0. Specimens of rock from St. Michael's Cave, Mediter- 
ranean. 

Bailey, W. B. F. Specimens of stone implements and quartz ; 1 box 
ethnological specituens from Griffin, Ga. 

Baird, G. W., Passed Assistant Engineer, U. S. N. Wooden image rep- 
resenting a " frog-tamer," made by Indians of Sitka, Alaska. 

Balrd, Prof. S. F. Sioux clay pipe. See under Washington, I>. C. 

Baker, W E. See under Boston, Aquarial Gardens. 

Ballon, W. II. Small stone implement from Niagara River, N. Y. 

Baltimore, J. D, Intersi)inou8 process of tish. 

Banks, Montague. Specimeu of hell bender {tectums lateralis) from 
Manitoba. 

Barker, W. P. Si)ecimen of giant beetle {Dynastes hercules) from Ala- 
bama. 

Barnes, G. W. Specimens of jumping seeds from San Diego, Cal. 

Barnum, Hon. P. T. Skeletons of eland, (Orm.s'Crt?>j;»rt,) giraffe, ((/j'm/Ta 
camelopardalis,) sea-lion, {Zalophus Gillespii,) and specimens, in flesh, 
of ostri(!h, {Slruthio camelus,) Malayan tapir, {Khinochoerus suma- 
tranus,) and manatee, {Trichechus manatus ;) 2 black-neck swans, 
( Cygnus nigrieollis. ) 

Bartlett, J)r. E. 11. Living specimens of golden eagle {Aquila 
chrysaetos) from Maryland. 

Batty, Joseph 11. Skins of rabbit, {Lepus americanus,) weasels, {Putorius 
inson, noveboracensis, and longicauda,) and squiiTcl, {Sciurus hudsonius,) 
and skeletons. 

Batiermeistcr, Rev. W. G. C. Minerals from Indiana. 



74 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Bmtsett, S. P. Speciu)ens of herring {Chipea harengus) and of sardines 
from lower St. Lawrence, Canada. 

J5mn, T. E. Si)eciiuen of lesser red -poll [JEgiotlms linaria) from Vir- 
ginia; collection of fresh-water fishes; twenty-five bird skins and 
squirrel {Sciunis hudsonlus) from Pennsylvania ; skeleton of cow [Bos 
taurus) from Virginia; stone dish from Pennsylvania; ovaries and 
spermaries of black bass, {Microptenis salmoides,) and kettle from Indian 
grave in Pennsylvania. 

Bechler, G. 11. Skull of boar {Sus scrofa) from Colorado. 

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. 8. Army. Eggs of double-crested cormorant, 
(Oraculus dilophus ;)skins of gray-crowned ^uch,{Leiicostict€littoralis ;) 
Bohemian waxwing {Ainpelis fjarrulus) from Oregon. 

Bertiary, Br. F. F. Polished stone from Missouri. 

Berthoud, E. L. Box of ethnologic.al specimens; two boxes minerals 
from Colorado. 

Berthoud, TF. B. Sj)ecimen of giant beetle {Bynastes hercules) from 
Louisiana. 

BlacJiford, Eugene G. Specimens of red snapi)er, [Lnljanns aya ;) barra- 
cuda, (^^)%rrt'na;;76'W^rt ;) toothed \wvn\\g,{D()rosoma ccpedianum ;) liad- 
do<;k, {Melanogrammns ccgUfinus ;) head of salmon, {jSalmo quinnat ;} 
crabs and lobsters; snapper. [Ephuphelus ;) albino haddock, [Melano- 
grammus (rglefimis ;) Spanish mackerel, (C'j/^n/m macuJatiini ;) pom- 
panos, {Trachynotus carolinus ;) terrapin, {rtycht-jtiys decusfiata,) nnd 
young, one year old ; three turtles, {Chelonia mydan ;) grenadier, {Ma- 
erurus rvpcstris ;} leather-back turtle, (S})hargh coriacca ;) loggerhead- 
turtle, [Thalassochelys caunna ;) sturgeon, {Acipenser ;) long-tailed file- 
fish, [Alutera cuspicauda ;) spiny box fish, [Chilomycterus geomctricus ;) 
sheep's-head, [Archosargus prohaiocephalus ;) king-fish, {Menticirrus 
nehulosus ;) big-eyed herring, {Flops saurus ;) cobia, {Elacate eanadus ;) 
horse-fish, {Vomer setipiyinis ;) cero, {Cyhiian caballa;) dolphin, 
{Coryphcenaseueri ;) mudfisb, {Amia calva ;) drum, {Pogo7tias chromis ;) 
sturgeon, {Acipenser ;) Qnsher, {Lohotes surinamensis ;) mullet, [Miigil 
lincatus ;) carangids ; silver gar, {Belone longirostris ;) goose-fisb, 
{Lophiiis americantis ;) sole, {Achirus Uneatus ;) eel, {Anguilla bos 
tonicnsis ;) egg-capsules of periwinkle, {Sycotypns ;) pike, {E.sox ;) com- 
mon flat-fish, {Pseudopleuronectes americanus ;) moon-eye, {Uyodon 
tergisus ;) shiner, {8tUbe americana ;) whitefish, {Coregonns sp. ;) large 
mouth black bass, {Micropier'iis nigricans ;) catfish, {Noturus jlavus ;) 
toad-fish, {Batrachus tau ;) snckcr, {Catostomics sp. ;) yellow ])erch, 
{Perca Jlavescens ;) cusk, (jBroswti/s americanus ;) white perch, {Morone 
americanus;) rock-fish, [Roccus Uneatus;) brook-trout, {ISalmo 
fontituilis ;) sea-robin, {Prionotus evolans ;) bluefish, {Pomatomus salta- 
trix ;) salmon, {Salmo salar ;) fresh-water cusk, {Lota maculosa,) from 
Fulton Market, N. Y. 

Blake, Prof. W. P. Eleven boxes of minerals from various localities. 

Boardman, George A. Four eggs of ring-neck duck {Fiilix collaris) from 
Milltown, Me. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. i~y 

BoehiHcr, George IL (^iiartzcn stal.s from Maryland. 

Jioollt, G. W. ii[K'{-uuvus oi' minerals I'rom Talladega County, Ala. 

Boston, Mass., Aquarial Gardens, {^Y. E. Balcer.) Two specimens, in 
llesh, of common seal, {Vhoca ritnlina.) 

Bourse, C. J., jr. Collection illnstrating mineral resources of Columbia, 
Lancaster County, I'a., and Carroll County, Md. 

Boicman, Peter. Arrow-heads from Savannah, Ohio. 

Bowman, 8. C. One box of bird-skius ; two boxes of mounted birds 
from Illinois. 

Boyd, G. R. Collection illustrating- mineral resources of Wythe County, 
Va. 

Boyd, Dr. Specimen of pike- perch {Stizostediiim americanum) from 
Tennessee. 

Brackett, Lieut. Col. A. G. Specimensof gray-crowned finch, [Leucosticte 
tephrocotis var. Uttoralis ;) skins of |)orcui)ine, {Erethizon dor.safus) and 
woodchuck, {Arctomys monax ;) ferrugineous buzzard, [Archibuteo 
ftrrufjineus ;) sj)arrow-hawk, [Tinnunculus spar ver ins ;) hawk, {Buteo) 
bittern, {Botaurns ;) sandpijxT, [Tringa ;) long-billed curlew, [Nu- 

• menus lonyirostris ;) spermophiles, {Sptrmophilus tridecemlineatus and 
S. richardsonii \'AV. eleejans ;) elk, [Cerviis canadensis) in flesh, from 
Fort Saunders. 

Bradley, Prof. F. H. Collection illustrating mineral resources of East 
Tennessee, North Carolina, and Georgia. 

Brand, C. C. Whaling-gun aud bomb-lances. 

Bransford, Dr. J. T., U. S. N. Alcoholic fishes, shells, and minerals 
from Istlnnus of Panama. 

Brecl:, Prof. Robert L. Cast of prehistoric medallion found near Rich- 
mond, Ky. 

Briggs, Ulysses. Oriole's nest made of flax from Iowa. 

Broadhead, Prof. G. C. Collection illustrating mineral resources of Mis- 
souri and western part of Illinois. 

Broicn, IL Felt from bottom of U. S. gunboat "Isaac P. Smith," suuk 
(luring the rebellion in Charleston Ilarbor. 

Brown, Dr. J. J. Specimens of shells from Gulf Stream. 

Bryan, 0. N. Specimens of fishes from Akocheek, St. Georges County, 
Md. 

Bryan, R. B. Specimen of meteorite from Mound City, Kans. 

Bryant and WarJcer. Specimens of shells from Detroit, Mich. 

Buck, Stuart M. Specimens of coal from Coalburgh, W. Va. 

Burchard, Miss Sophia. Specimens of birds {Falco tinnunculns, Cuculus 
canoruH, Turdus iorquatus, Coccothraustes vulgaris, Saxicola cenanthe, 
Pratincola ruherta, Vringilla montifringilla, Emheriza schnoenicluH, Partis 
cristatuH, Phyllopneuste trochilus, Sternus vulgaris, Rallus aquaticus, 
Rallus porzana) an<l fishes and insects from llostock, Gernmny. 

Byrne, Surgeon G. C., U. S. JV. Indian pestle from Willet's Point, 
New York Harbor. 



76 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

CalJcins, W. W. Box of freshwater and land shells from Chicago, 111. 

Calvin, WiUiam. Two boxes of shells from Ciuciuuati, Ohio. 

Canfield & Co. Specimens of quartz-crystals. 

Capron, General Horace. Lay figures of Japanese fariiior and his wife. 
Screens with colored drawings of Japanese fishes. 

Carley, B. J. M. Specimens of oysters, clams, and razor clams from 
numerous localities in the vicinity of New York, illustrating the New 
York oyster-trade. 

Carlisle, ximos M. Specimens of galena iVom TaUahassee. 

Carpenter, E. C. Specimens ot British birds' eggs. 

Carpenter, Lieut. W. L., U.S.A. Specimens ot birds' eggs ; inverte- 
brate fossils; box of zoological collections; teeth of Brontotherimn; 
insects ; invertebrate fossils. 

Casey, J. Stone hatchet, hammer, sinker, pestles, picks, &c., from Penn- 
sylvania. 

Central Virginia Manufacturing Company. Copper-ores from the vicinity 
of Tolersville. 

Chace, William. Three stone axes, three stone chisels, and one quartz 
arrow-head from South Carolina. 

Chapman, George W. Two specimens of septaria; fragment of an aero- 
lite from Waconda, Kans. 

Chase, A. W. Two boxes of ethnologica, one box of birds, and one box 
of fossils from California. (Deposited.) 

Chester, Capt. II. C. Wooden anchor used on coast of Connecticut; 
model of Noank sharpey. 

Chicago, III, Academy of Sciences of One box of fish-skins. 

Chiraz, Mirza Mohammed Aly Persan. Persian coins from Poul. 

Christehurch, New Zealand, Canterbury; Museum of A collection of moa 
bones from New Zealand. 

Christiania, Norway; Royal University of Noricay. Mounted reindeer; 
model of Laplander and sledges; mosses and lichens; carved-wood 
articles of Norwegian industry; medals of Norway: stone paper- 
weights; diadem made from fish scales and eyes: and basket from 
boiled roots of pine-tree. 

Clarlx, George. One keg of salted whitefish [Coregonus albus) from 
Michigan. 

Clark, J. n. Eight boxes and one bale of fossils and ethnologica of 
New England ; implements carved from whale's teeth, {Physeter macro- 
cephalus.) 

Clark, ^y^lson H. Minerals from Connecticut for examination. 

Clark, Br. W. M. Three boxes of human bones, carved figures, (idols?) 
mound-pipes, earthen vessels, shell-beads, gorgets, chisels, sinkers, 
chumkee-stoue, «S:;c., Irom Tennessee. 

Clark, William S. Ivubbing-stone and arrow-points from Iowa. 

Clendennin, Frank. Three Arapaho scalps. 

Collett, Prof. Robert. A collection of marine fishes from Norway. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 77 

Cox, Prof. E. T. HpecinuMis of Lake Tipi)ecauoe sisco {Argyrosomus 

aisco) tVoiii liuliaiia. 
Cox, John F. Six'ciineiis of gypsnrn from Little Rock, Ark. 
Crittenden, A. R. Tiiiinble made from jaw-bone of sperin-wliale, {Phyne- 
tcr macroecphnlns.) 

Crn/fs, W. 11. Skin of snake from California. 

Curlcy, Kei\ Jdinrs. I'^skimo bows, arrows, harpoons, and fishing-lines 
from Alaska. 

Currier, Georije 11. Mounted badger {Taxidca americana) from Wiscon- 
sin. 

Currier, J. M. Ethnological si)ecimens, quartzite, bones of various aiii- 
m.ils, and earth from Indian camping-gronud near Bristol, Vt. 

Cnshing, Frank H. Lnplements from Indian grave, bone-perforators, 
arrow-heads, &c., from Northern New York. 

Dabneij, William C, M. I>. Carved stone head from ]\ronticello. 

JJall, Ixer. C. II. I'^leven terracotta figures, Parsee hat, and sacred 
Brahminical thread from Calcutta, Lidia. 

Dall, William H., U. S. Coast tSnrvcy. Two sea-lion teeth from Pacific 
ocean ; cones of fir, [Abies sp.) 300 species exotic, 75 species east 
coast, and 25 sfjccies fossil mollnsca. 

Davis, 0. \V., Jr. S[)eciinens of graphite, limonite, cinder, pig-irou, &c., 
fronj Katahdin Lon- Works, Mo. 

Daicson, Dr. J. W. Ten species of arctic shells and Post-Pliocene fossils. 

De Frcce, A. B. Box of articles manufactured from American pearl- 
bearing shells. 

Delano, George, tt Co., New Bedford, Mass. Sam[!les of whale-oils and 
sperm-candles: 

Dvrry, Charles IT. Skin of pine-grosbeak [Pinicola emicleator) from 
Colorado. 

Dexter, Mr. Specimen of spear-fish sucker {lihomhochirns osieochir) 
from Vineyard Haven, Mass. 

Diclc, Dr. F. N. Skin and skull of black-footed ferret (Pntorins nigripcs) 
from Nel)raska. 

Dickeson, M. W. Two '' security-medals." 

Dillingham, Joseph R., and Sumner J. Plumner. Specimen of land-locked 
salmon {iSalnio scbago) from ^Liine. 

Dodge, R. F., Boston, Mass. Series of oars and ])addles. 

Douglas, Thomas and William 0. Collection illustrating mineral re- 
sources of Virginia. 

Dozier, Dr. 0. K. (Jsseous growth from jaw of mule. 

Dunedin, Neic Zealand, Otago ^^l(seun^, {Capt. F. W. Tlutton.) Two 
boxes of fossil bones and birds. 

Eaton, I). II. IJox of Indi.ni imi)lements from Peotone. 

Edes, Lieut. B. Ijong. Seeds of camel ia {C<imelia japonica) from Japan. 

Edwards, Daniel. Two spe(;imens of bay lynx [Lynx rufus) from Alle- 
gany County, X. Y. 



78 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Udwards, Vinal W. See under Washington, U. S. Commission Fish and 

Fisheries. 
Edwards, William H. Specimens of cannel-coal from Coalburglj, W. 

Va. 
Elliott, Henry W. Phonolithic rock with spinel, and Mytilidw from 

Saint George's Island, Alaska. 
Evans, W. W. Birds and Indian antiquities of Peru, &c. 
Ferguson, Maj. T. B., Maryland Commissioner of Fisheries. Toung 

black bass, {Micropterus salmoides,) specimens of golden carp, {Cyprimis 

carpio,) and tench, {Tinea vvlgaris;) three crates for packing fish-eggs ; 

models of oyster-boats used on Chesapeake Bay. 
Finicli, Dr. Hugo. Collection of pestles, mortars, mullers, carved stone 

heads of animals, stone images, (very ancient,) stone balls, obsidian 

cores, flakes, spear and arrow heads, pottery, spindle-whorls, handles 

to potter^^ vessels, &c., from near Cordova, Mexico. 
Fitch, F. A. Specimens of coral, insects, and spear-heads from Ean- 

dolph, K Y. 
Fithian, Dr. W. Stone ax from Kentucky. 
Flint, Dr. Earl. Two cases containing stono idols, mortars, chisels, 

pottery, earthen vases of different kinds, and stone imjilements from 

Nicaragua. 
Flynt, W. N., & Co., Monson, Mass. Specimens of granite, in the form of 

cubes, from Monson, Mass. 
Foote, George B. Specimens of mineral from Montana. 
Foiich, F. W. Specimens of fossil teeth, shells, bones, &c., from Badito, 

Colo. 
Foivler, W. H. Living otter {Lutra canadensis) from Maryland. 
Fox, W. H. Skin of pine-creeping warbler {Dendroica pinus) from New 

Hampshire. 
Friel, Joseph. Stone and iron axes from Cloverport, Ky. 
Fryer, G. G. Six boxes Cornish sardines. 
Fuller, C. B., Curator of Portland Society Natural History. Box of 

shells from Portland, Me. 
Gahh, Prof. Willia7n M., Director of Talamanca Expedition. Specimens 
of stone chisels, lancets, ancient pottery, pots, dishes, images of ani- 
mals, dogs, horses, &c., box of shells from Talamanca, Costa. Rica. 
Galvin, Thomas. Stone pestle from Ehode Island. 
Garrett, A. Land and fresh-water shells from Tahiti. 
Gattunger, Dr. August. Specimens of European mosses, [Musci.) 
Gianque, Florien. Specimens of celt bark-peelers from Ohio. 
Gibson, J. P. Calcareous rocks from Concord, N. C. 
Gilchrist, James. Specimen of mineral from Wheeling, W. Ya. 
Gill, Herbert A. Specimens of bats {Scotophilus fuscus) from the District 

of Columbia. 
Gilliss, Capt. James, U. S. A. Black-tailed deer {Cariaciis macrotis) and 
black-footed ferret [Putorius nigripes) from Cheyenne, Wye. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 79 

Glorcr, Toicncnd. SpeciQien of nialforined carp {Cyprinus carpio) from 
the Distri(;t of Columbia. 

Golden, II. W. Tlireo specimens of laiul-locked smelt [O.Hvienis sp.) 
from Belgrade, Me. 

Goode, G. Browne. Specimens of shad, {Alosa mpidissima ;) mullet, 
[MiKjU Uneatus ;) spotted .s(pietea,i;ue, {Cynoscion carolincnsis ;) yellow 
])evch, [Perca Jlavesccns ;) sun-tlsli, [romoiis aureus;) sucker, {Cato- 
stomuH ;) catfish, { Ami urns atrariua;) "smelts," (i///?>f>2)si«;) 10 spec- 
imens of carp, {Caras.sius auratus;) \n\ni, (Esox,) from Washington 
market; 8 alligator-skins, Indian-tanned deerskins, from Indian 
River, Fla. ; collection of liahes and reptiles of East Florida; speci- 
mens of columbite and molybdenite; 30 mallard-ducks, {Anas bos- 
chas ;) 13 rabbits, {Lepus sylvaticus ;) 130 living animals from Florida, 
transmitted to Zoological Gardens of rhiladeli)hia. 

Grant, M. N. Soda from a soda lake, Laramie Plains, Wyo. 

Grant, ^Y^^^iam. IS[)ecimeu of harlequin-snake {Flaps sp.) from Coura- 
litas, Chihuahua, Mexico. 

Gray, Arthur F. Box of shells from Cedar Keys, Fla. 

Green, H. A. Copper spear from Livingston County, New York. 

Green, Monroe A. Sturgeon, {Aeeipenscr sp.) 8 days old, from Hudson 
River. 

Gregory, S. ^. Hornet's nest from Berea, Ohio. 

Grisicold''s {B. B.) Selwol. Indian relics frc'nn Maryland. 

Grubcr, F. Skull and skin of head of young sea-lion {Fumetopias Sfel- 
leri) from California. 

Gunnell, T. M., Medical Director U. 8. N. Feather-coat from Bering's 
Strait. 

Eaigh, Br. A. Y. Indian implements from Wellborn, Ark. 

Hale, Br. Specimens of orthoptera from Middle Park, Colo. 

Hamilton, R. J. Indian arrow-straightener from Chapurito, Mexico. 

Hanley, Sylvanus. One hundred and five species of moll usks from Eng- 
land. 

Ilardenburgh, A. R., surveyor-general of California. Specimens of gold, 
silver, quicksilver, and lead ores from various mines in California. 

Ilardenburgh, G.R. Skins of six species of birds from New Brunswick, 
N. J. 

HarJcncss, James. Frontal bone of human skull. 

Harper, G. W. Specimens of shells from Ohio. 

Hart, J. P. Crystals from Kansas. 

Harvey cO Holdcn. Specimen of Virginia rail {Ralhts rirginiana) from 
Virginia. 

Hathaway, G. W. Samples of ore from Tioga, Pa. 

Haven, Williams tO Co. Skins of fur-seal from Antarctic Ocean and 
sami)les of oils. 

Hazard, Joseph P. Minerals from North Carolina, South Carolina, and 
Virginia. 



80 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Hempstead, G. S. B. Box of etbnologica from Portsinoutb, Ohio, and 
viciuity. 

Henderson, J. H. Shoes made from rattlesnake and chicken-snake 
skins, tanned deer-skin, and antidote tor rattlesnake's bite from Ala- 
bama. 

Hering, I)r. C. J. Sknll of tapir, horns of deer, stone implements, and 
bird-skins from Paramaribo, Mexico. 

Herran, Thomas V., President University of Medellin^ Colombia, S. A. 
Living or(;hids from Colombia. 

Herrendean, Captain. Specimen of PseudopriacantJius alius from Wood's 
Hole, Mass. 

Hcyman, Isaac. Mineral from Alabama. 

Hill, A. F. Fragments of i)ottery from Miisontown, Pa. 

Hill, l>r. H. H. Casts of stone imi>lemeuts from Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Hoderman, Henry. Malformed hen's i'g\i,. 

Holmes, F. S. Ancient pottery from Charleston, S. C. ; bust of Osceola. 

Holston Salt and Plaster Company. Box of salts and plasters from Salt- 
ville, Va. 

Hooper, W. E., & Sons, Baltimore, Md. Fyke, trammel, and seine nets, 
and ispecimens of twine used in niiinnfacturing fishnets. 

Hoskinson, R. M. Five univalve shells fiom Kiuisas. 

Hough, Daniel. Cast of stone implement from Indiana. 

Hough, Dr. R. B. Box of Indian relics, airow-points, Indian dresses, 
and etbnologica from New York. 

Hough, Leivis S. Stone pestles from Maryland. 

Houston, Edward. Stone implements from Irish Grove, IMo. 

Hoy, Dr. P. R. Specimens of whiteijsh [Goregonus sp.) and burbot 
(Lotavaculosa) Irom Eacine, Wis. 

Hoyt, B. F. Otl^^ box of TJnionidce from Iowa. 

Hoyt, I. 11. One box of shells from Iowa. 

Hoioe, H. M. Thirteen boxes of minerals, illustrating the mineral re- 
sources of parts of New Ilampshire, Massachusetts, Vermont, New 
York, Maine, lihode Island, &c. 

Howland, J. S. Bull-whip used on the plains. 

Hitnt, J. H. One box Unionidoi and one box stone implements from 
Ohio. 

Huston, Lieut. J. T., U. S. A. Specimen of beetle, {Monohammus titil- 
lator.) 

Hutchinson, 8. G., JoMistoivn, N. Y. Series of skins and gloves illus- 
trating processes of glove-manufacture. 

Hutchinson, H. M. Chinese dog, in flesh, {Canis familiaris.) 

Hyatt, H. O., M. D. Specimens of alcoholic fishes from Tarboro, N. C. 

Janeway, rJoIin H. Two si)ecimens of gophers in alcohol from Fort 
Wallace. 

Jeicell, Hon. Harvey. Specimens of brook-trout {Salmo fontinalis) and 
land-locked salmon {Salmo sehayo) from Sysladobsis Lake, Me. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 81 

Johnson^ Luis. See under Angcl, Br. Manuel Urihe y. 

Johnston, F. H. Specimens of cod, (Gndus morrhua,) baddock, {Melano- 

grammiis (cgJcfinus,) and bake, {Phijcls chuss,) from Massacbnsetts. 
Jones, W. U., passed assistant surt/ron, U.S.N. Four skulls of natives 

of Honolulu. 
Jones, Rev. G. M. Wingof bawk from Towa. 
Kaeliler, F. Skull (partial) and teetb of borse, {E(iuus cahallus.) 
Kauclier, William. Specimens of minerals irom Oregon, Mo. 
Keim, M. Insects from Danville, Va. 

Kempton, G. W. Specimens of galena, quartz, coi>per, auril'erous pyri- 
tes, &.C., from Essex County, Mass. 
Kercheval, A. W. Specimen of canuel-coal from Ronmey, W. Va. 
Kerslmer, Dr. Edu'ard, U. S. N. Sixteen boxes of birds, fisbes, woods, 

minerals, mammals, &c., from Australasia. 
Kidder, I)r. Jerome H., U. S. N. Fifteen boxes, one b;irrel, one keg, 

natural-bistory specimens from Kerguelen Island. 
King^ G. J. Skin of porcupine {Erethizon dorsatus) from Mount Wasb- 

ington, X. II. 
Kifineit, White. Miner's wooden sbovel from sbaft in Wasbiugtoa 

County, Mo., used sixty years ago. 
Kinncij, Thomas W. Pbotograpbs of Indian relics from Maysville, Ky. 
Kirkhy, W. W. One box of natural-bistory specimens, birds' eggs, and 

mannnal from Hudson's Bay. 
Kjerulf, JJr. Lava-dust from Tryssil, Norway. 

Knapp, Dr. James. Paint-cups and stone implements from Louis- 
ville, Ky. 
Knight, Joseph. Specimens of minerals from Mount Union, Pa. 
Koberlin, Frederick, M. D. Map of "Nova Belgica et Anglia Nova." 
Kratachoil, Dr. J. Pottery from Cbiriqui, Panama. 
Jjaing, Dr. J. M., U. 8. A. Specimen of bat-13sb {Malihe cnhifrons) from 

Florida. 
Langille, llev. J. H. Specimens of insects. 
Lapham, Dr. I. A. Box of sbells from Wisconsin. 
Lapham, I. G. Model of animal mounds of Wisconsin. 
Latham, James IT. Specimens of lisbes and invertebrates; eel-pot from 

Noauk, Conn. 
Latimer, W. H. Ten barrels and sixteen boxes stone and otber relics 

from Porto Kico and elsewbere. 
Le Baron, J. Francis. Twenty specimens of red-i)oll, {JEgiothus linaria;) 

sbells; skin of snipe, (Z'eZ<V7n«. americana;) and insects in alcobol, 

from Massacbusetts. 
Leavetnvorth, J. H. Specimen of Virginian deer, albino, (Gariaeus vir- 

ginianus,) from Pesbtigo, Wis. 
Lcdyard, Jj. W. Pottery from sbell-beap mounds, Florida ; two stone 

sinkers from Oneida Lake, and otber stone implements from Western 

New York. 

S. .AJi.s. II. J G 



82 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Letcis, Albert E. Pottery from old Indian village, site of Hockelaga. 

Lillard, John B. Stone pestle; box of bones of Indian children, teeth, 
&c., (supposed " pigmies,") and costal segment of tortoise, from Ten- 
nessee. 

Lindheimer, Dr. F. Stone spear and arrow heads, perforator, &c., from 
New Brauufels, Tex. 

Lindstrohm, Dr. G. Thirty-one species of invertebrates from the Baltic 
Sea. 

Lloyd, C. Minerals, fossils, bones, &c., from Missouri. 

Lloyd, L. W. Specimens of lignite from Marshall, Texas. 

Loeiv, Dr. Oscar. Steatite from Fichtelgebirge, Germany. 

Louderhaclc, W. H. Arrow-points from Kentucky. 

Lucas, David. Seeds of Nelumbium luteum. 

Ludington, C. Three bottles of young shad and herring from the Poto- 
mac Kiver. 

Lull, Comr. E. P., U. 8. JV. One box of pottery from Newport, E. I. 

LUtken, Prof. C. Box of alcoholic fishes from South America. 

Lntticits, Lieut. A. H. von., TJ. 8. A. Skin of golden eagle {Aquila cliry- 
saetos) from Wyoming. 

Lyford, Dr. William H. Hematite axe ; bear's tooth from Illinois. 

McAdoo, W. G. Indian relics from Milledgeville, Ga. 

McChcsney, CJiarles E. Specimens of ducks {8patula, Aix, Bucephala, 
and Lophodytes) from Dakota. 

McClellan, Dr. E., U. 8. A. Deformed skull of woodchuck {Arctomys 
nionax) from Kentucky. 

McCUntocl; Fratik. Earth from bottom of Great Salt Lake, Utah. 

McCrary, Dr. E. W. Minerals and ethnologica from Arkansas. 

McLlvaine, A. B. Stone implement from Ealeigh, Iowa. 

McKenzie, Dr. N. K. Indian implements from Wellsville, Ohio. 

McKinley, William. Three boxes of ethnologica from Milledgeville, Ga. 

McLeod, Rev. Robert R. Two caribou (Rangifer caribou) in flesh ; Can- 
ada lynx, [Lynx Canadensis ;) (Vulpes alopex var. fulvus ;) skins of 
pine grosbeak, woodpecker, Canada jay, &c. ; cross-fox and birch- 
bark canoe, from Maine. 

McMahon, James. Specimen of tabulate coral from Indiana. 

McWilliams, Dr. Skin of silver clarion {Myiadestes unicolor) from Mex- 
ico. 

Macy, 8. W. Box of wooden and stone implements from Polynesia. 

Malone, D. R. Package of ethnologica from Indiana. 

Maltzan, Baron von. Sixty-five species of shells from Norway. 

Manigault, Dr. G. E. Skeletons of oldwife {Balisies vetula) and rattle- 
snake {Crotalus adamanteus) from South Carolina. 

2tann,A.8. Specimens of se^-horses {Hippocampus sp.) und porcupine- 
fish {Diodon sp.) from Florida. 

Marcy, J. E. Specimen of turtle in alcohol. 

Martin, Dudley A. Package of Indian relics from Pennsylvania. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 83 

Martin, Horace. Box of pottery from CoriiiDg, ]\Io. 

Mather, Fred. Box of fresh gYnyliug {Thi/mallus tricolor) aud spawn 

and embryos of same from Iloneoye Falls, N. Y. 
Matide, Juan Ygnacio. Specimens of the 1, i*, 3, 4, and 5 eruptions ol 

the volcano of Ceboruco, Mexico. 
31aury, M. F. Twelve boxes illustrating the coal resources of West 

Virginia. 
Mazijclc, William G. One package of unios from South Carolina. 
Meek, Frof. F. B. One box and one barrel of reptiles, echinoderms, &c., 

from Florida. 
Meigs, Gen. M. G. Geological specimens from Indian Territory. 
Meigs, Mrs. ]\L C. Collection of Central American birds. 
Mercer, Dr. F. W. I>ox of stone implements from Anna, Bl. 
2lercer, R. W. Box of stone implements from Ohio. 
Merrill, Dr. J. C., U. 8. A. Four skins of European tree sparrow 

{Passer Montana) from Saint Louis, Mo. 
Middleton tO Carman. Specimens of dolphin^ [Coryphcena Seuerii,) but- 

terfish, {Foronotns trianeantlms,) and black ruddertish, {PalinurichtV.ys 

lierciformis,) from Fulton Market, ^. Y. 
Middletown, Conn., Wesleyan University. Three mounted specimens of 

Bnteo polysomns, and Fhalcohamus montanus, from Ecuador and Peru; 

specimens of black- walnut bird-stands. 
Mills, ClarJc. Cast of fossil shark's tooth. 
Milner, James W. See under Washington, U. S. Gommission of Fish 

and Fisheries. 
Moffat, E. 8. Five boxes of iron-ores from Morris County, N. J. 
Monroe, Gharles E. Two boxes of fossils from Annapolis, j\Id. 
Moore, N. B. Skin of Harlan's Hawk, [Buteo Harlani.) 
Moores, R. Box of shells from Columbus, Ohio. 
Moran, Dr. George H., U. S. A. Mounted specimen of Virginia rail 

[EaUus Virginianus) from Charleston, S. C. 
Morgan, 8. B. Specimen of coal from Tennessee. 

Morlcy, J. R. Box of Itockj' Mountain locusts, from Fort Scott, Kans. 
Morris, 8. F. Two boxes of iron-ores from Quinnimont, W. Va. 
Morse, Gharles H. Book illustrating punishments 25 years ago in 

China. 
Munn, J. Box of oils and bone from whale's lu^ad from Newfoundland. 
Newberry, Dr. G. Chest of bird-skins ; zoological collection from Black 

Hills, Wyo. 
New Jersey Zinc Gompany, Passaic, N. J, Specimens of zinc and miner- 
als. 
Newton, Dr. Box of fossils from Kansas. 
Nickell, G. W. Spo(;imens of minerals. 

Nickemon, George Y. Seal-skin buoy from Greenland, and various arti- 
cles illustrating whale-fishing. 



84 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Nimrod Furnace Company. Box of minerals from Youngstown, Ohio. 

Norton, John V. Box of ancient pottery and other ethnologica from 
Peru. 

Owen House, WasMngtori, D. C. Specimen of '^ oyster-fish," {Batrachus 
tan.) 

Orvis, Charles F. One " Orvis fishing-reel." 

Otis, Colonel. Skull and fossil wood from California. 

Oudeslys, Charles L. One bottle of asbestos-oil. 

Ourley, J. B. Box of flint hatchets and fossils from Ohio. 

Facific Guano Company, 'Wood''s Hole, Mass. Materials for making 
guano. 

Falmer, Dr. E. One box of ancient pottery ; 2 boxes birds from Gua- 
dalupe ; 7 boxes and 1 package ethnologica from California. 

Falmer, F. W. Stone beads from Brockport, N. Y. 

Pardon, W. P. Package of ethnological specimens from Maryland. 

Parish, Grant. Double egg of hen. 

Parrott, B. F). H. Box of " mineral wood." 

Patterson, Holmes A. Indian stone implements from Flint Eiver, Miss. 

Patterson, F)r. F). C. Specimen of lignite found 65 feet below the sur- 
face, Washington, D. C. 

Pease, Harper. Collection of moUusca from Sandwich Islands. 

Phillips, William. Box of stone imi>lements and specimens of natural 
history, alcoholic, from Georgia. 

Phoenix Mines. Box of minerals. 

Pierce, E. G. Piece of Sir William Pepperell's house, «&c., iu Kittery, 
Me. 

Pierce, . Small arrow-points from Maysville, Ky. 

Pike, B. G. Two young specimens of salmon {Salmo qui7mat) from 
Branford, Conn. 

Plummer, Sumner J. See under Dillingham, Joseph B. 

Poey, Prof. Felipe. Specimen of Sarothrodus amplericolUs from Cuba, 

Pomeroy, Mrs. Mary H. Indian clothing from western plains. 

Potter, Elihu H. Albino eel {Anyuilla hostoniensis) from Noank, Conn. 

Poicell, iSanmel. Stone ax ; 2 cans of alcoholic fishes from Newport, E. I. 

Poicell, Maj. J. W., Washington, Interior Department. Five boxes of fos- 
sils; skull of bison, {Bison americaniis ;) 10 boxes of ethnological 
specimens; 4 boxes of general collection. 

Powers, Stephen. Box of Indian implements from Susanville, Cal. ; 3 
boxes of Indian implements from Pyramid Lake, Nev. ; 2 boxes eth- 
nologica from Colorado. See Washington, D. C, Smithsonian Disti- 
tution. 

Price, Henry M. Specimens of amethystine quartz from Autioch, Va. 

Prior, William, jr., cfc Co., Boston. Specimens of haddock and hake. 

Providence, B. L, Broum University, of. Skin of file-fish {Balistcs vetula) 
from Khode Island. 

Pulsifer, Sidney. Three stone axes and 2 pieces of pottery (deposited) 
from Illinois. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 85 

Ft/has, Ben. Box of stone impleinciits and specimen of coal-plant from 

Alabama. 
Quail, WiUiam. Two motlis {Samia ceaopta) from Pennsylvania. 
Handle, 2Irs. E. H. Box of Indian relics from Tennessee. 
Eaicson, Governor. Eleven Garib shell-cbisels from Barbadoes. 
Raymond Coal Company. Box of coal from Raymond, W. Va. 
Renfrew, G. R., tO Co., Quebec. Series of marketable furs from Labrador 
coast, moccasins, &c. ; shark, {Somniosus hrevipinnis ;) white porpoise, 
[Delphinapterus catodon,) from Labrador. 
Reuss, Dr. A. Skulls of foxes {Vnlpes sp.) and other mammals from 

Belleville, 111. 
Rhea, Maj. Alexander. Indian relics from Tennessee. 
Ricl'secJ:er, E. Skin and egg of wren {Catherpes mexicanus) from Texas. 
Ried, James II., M. I). Box of skulls and Ute arrows from Colorado. 
Ridgicay, C. W. Collections of bird-skins and living fox [Vulpes) from 

Mount Carmel, 111. 
Ridgicay, Rohcrt. Collection of vines from Illinois. 
Robertson, Aurjusia. Fragment of fossil fern (?) from Arkansas. 
Robertson, J. L. Specimen of mineral from Arkansas. 
Robertson, W. 8. Specimens of sediment of Arkansas River, Ark. 
Robertson, Capt. Zephaniah. Sperm-whale's jaw from Congo River, 

Africa. 
Roessler, F. E. Three boxes and one package ethnological material from 

Saint Louis, Mo. 
Roney, G. J. Box of geological specimens from Illinois. 
Ropes, E. E. Indian pottery from Florida. 
RudasiUc, J. M. Specimen of mineral from Virginia. 
llussel, Benj. Specimens of fishes, in alcohol, from Massachusetts. 
Ji'yder, Stephen A. Seal {Phoca vitulina) in flesh from Princeton, Mass. 
Sacramento, Gal., Agassiz Institute. Box of stone implements from Cali- 
fornia. 
Salvin, Gsbert. Box of birds and specimen bird-case from England. 
Sanborn, J. K. Silurian fossils from Williamsport, Pa. 
San Biego Gal, Academy of Sciences of. Photographs of Indians of San 
Diego ; bird skin ; skin of hudgev, {Taxidea americana ;) and skull and 
ears of black-tailed deer, (C columbianns.) 
Sargent, Hon. A. A. Box of gold and silver ores from Sitka, Alaska. 
Sarg, F. Specimen of Honduras turkey {Meleagris ocellata) from Coban. 
Savoy, Louis. Specimen of petrified wood from Brightwood. 
Scarborough, J. V. B. Collection of reptiles and fresh-water shells from 

Ohio. 
Schayer Bros., Boston, Mass. Articles made from alligator-leather. 
Schneclc, J. Stone and iron implements, &c., from Ohio. 
Schuermann, Carl W. Skin of barred owl [Syrnium nebulosxim) from Vir- 
ginia. 
Schumacher, Paul. Fifty one boxes of ethnological specimens from 
Santa Babara, Cal. 



86 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Sciq>ham, J. B. Specimens of spermophile {8permophilus harrissii) and 

crawfish from California. 
Seeds, 0. H. Sknll of Comanche chief from Texas. 
Sevey, J. A., Boston. Collection illustrating the mauufatiture of whale- 
bone. 
ShardloiVj Joseph. One bos of carvings from American ivory and bone. 
Shearer, J. S. Specimen of aerolite from Forks of Solomon Elver. 
Shepard, G. U. Box of minerals from Massachusetts. 
Shipard, E. W. Indian relics from Poughquay, N. Y. 
Sherman, J. 31. Specimen of mineral. 
Shirley & So7i. Fish-hatching apparatus. 

Shoticell, J. B. One box of smelts, &c., from Raritan Eiver, N. J. 
Shute, J. G. Stone sinker from Jamaica Plains. 
Sibley, P. B. Box of stone implements from Missouri. 
Slagle, J. W. Stone implements from South Carolina. 
Slater, W. F. Ammonite from Cow Island, Upper Missouri. 
Slocum, George. Specimen of billfish {Etdeptorhamphus lovgirostris 

from Newport, E. I. 
Smith, A. F. Specimens of silver-ore supposed from Texas. 
Smith, Bev. C. D. Specimens of minerals from Macou County, N. C. 
Smith, Fj. J. Chain made from cherry and peach jDits. 
Smith, Edicin, U. S. Coast Survey. Two Maori and oue Moriori skulls 

from Chatham Islands, South Pacific. See under Washington. 
Snyder, Br. J. F. Box of stone disks ; box of Indian implements from 

Illinois. 
Southicicl\ J. M. K. Models and samples of fishing-tackle, «S:c., used 

about Xewi)ort, E. I. 
Spangler, George. Arrow-heads and fossils from Madison, Ind., 

quartz-crystals from Warm Springs, Ark.; trilobites, fossil, and 

brachiopods from Indiana. 
Sprague, Stephen. Specimen of ore from Mason, Texas. 
Spring, J. A., and H. Buschman. Birds' nests and eggs ; collection of 

plants; mutilated specimen of chaparral cock [Geococcyx califor- 

niajius) from Arizona. 
Spur Mountain Iron Mining Company ^ Henry M. Walker, President. Box 

of minerals. 
Slanago, S. W. Box of shells from Ohio. 
Stanforth, Bichard. Specimens of catfish from Maryland. 
Stanton, Clarence L. Diminutive arrow-points ; box of ethnological 

specimens from Maysville, Ky. 
Steinherger, Col. A. B. Specimen of Palolo mats, canoes, utensils for 

cooking, &c., from the Samoan Islands. 
Stephens, F. Skin of sparrow {Coturniculus jJasserinus) from Colorado 

Springs, Colo. 
Sternberg, Charles W. Eggs and birds" nests from Kansas ; box of fossils 

from iS^ebraska. 
Stevens, H. A. Specimens of decoy ducks. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 87 

Stevens, D. ^y. Specimen of sucker {Leiiteclieneis naucrateoides) from 
Viuejarcl Haven, Mass. 

Stevenson, James. Skin and skeleton of Little Chief bare, [Lagomys 
princeps.) 

Stone, Livingston, (See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish 

and Fisheries.) Collection of fisbes from California; two boxes of 

alcobolic fisbes from McCloud River, California; can of alcoholic fishes 

from California ; four packages of Indian implements from McCloud 

Kiver Indians. 

Stratton, Lorenzo. Box of ethnological specimens from Tennessee. 

Strode, Stephen. Supj^osed silver-ore from Texas. 

Stimmerhayes, Lieut., U. S. A. Scorpion from La Paz, Ariz. 

Sutro, Adolph. Cast-iron model of "Sutro" tunnel. ■ 

Swan, J. G. Two boxes of Indian curiosities, 2?forthwestern coast. 

Siceeney, R. 0. Box of alcoholic specimens. 

Sn-ift, E. E. Baleen of fin-back whale from Provincetowu, Mass. 

Taher, FranJc. Two birds' nests from Ohio. 

Taylor, Lcicis H. Fresh-water fisbes from Susquehanna Eiver; one jai 
of brook-trout (Salmo fontinalis) from Luzerne County, Pa. 

Thompson, John A. Box of stone disks from burial-mounds in Jersey 
County, 111. 

Thomson, John H. Arrow-head ; specimens of yellow mackerel, {Para- 
tractus insquetus ;) banded vn(\.i\kiv-^^\i, {Halatractus zonatus) file-fish, 
{Alutera cuspicanda) &c. ; whale-boat gear, from Massachusetts. 

ThrocJcmorton, S. li. Specimens of salmon from San Francisco Bay, Cal. 

True and Sutton. Head of buffalo {Bos americanus) from Colorado. 

Tunc and Graham. Specimen of fish-hawk {Pandion carolin&nsis) from 
Fauquier County, Virginia. 

Turner, Lucien M. Box of bird skins and eggs from Saint Michael's, 
Alaska. 

Turner, Sanmel. Specimen of mud pup, {Menopoma alleghaniensis) lam- 
preys, and snakes from Mount Carmel, 111. 

Twitchill, U. W. Box of fossils from Indiana. 

TJnderiDood, William, & Sons. Box of canned meats. 

Vance, Ron. Robert B. Leaves of plants from Macon, IST. C. 

Van Fleet, Walter. Skin of muskrat {Fiber zibethicus) from Watson- 
town, Pa. 

Van Nostratid, J. Box of stone implements from Texas. 

Velie, Dr. J. W. Stuffed specimen of curlew, {Limosa hudsonica) two 
specimens of Avhite-fronted geese {Anser gambelli) from Chicago, 111. 

Waggaman, J. II. Mounted specimen of red-head duck {Aythya ameri- 
cana) from Washington, D. C. 

Walker, Mrs. Bora H. Two boxes of fossils from Texas. 

Walker, Dr. R. L. Paclvage of arrow-heads and two living menopomas 
from Mansfield, Pa. 

Wallace, Charles M. Package of supposed infusorial earth from Rich- 
mond, Ya. 



88 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Wallace, John. Brazilian head-dress made of beetle-wiugs ; head of 
black-tailed deer, {Cariacus colunihianns) carcass of bird. 

Wasson. John, surveyor- general, Arizona ; collection of minerals from 
Arizona ; collection of iron ores from Arizona. 

Webb, J. G. Two barrels of shells from Florida. 

Webber, Mrs, F. P. Specimens of arrow-heads from Georgia. 

Webber, Mrs. Mary C. Fossils from Alabama. 

Webster, Colonel. Specimen of little blue heron {Florida cwrulea) from 
Potomac Eiver. 

Weelis and Potter. Sample of ambergris from Indian Ocean. 

WeJfley, B. P. Virginia deer in flesh {Cariacus virginianus) from Cum- 
berland, Md. 

Wells, iS. H. Dried potatoes from La Junta, K. Mex. 

Welsher, H. W. One bottle of alcoholic fishes from Ferry Landing, Ya,; 
one sturgeon {Acipenser) and four gar-fishes, {Lepidosteus osseus.) 

Wendt, A. F. Box of minerals from New York. 

Wesleyan University. See under Middletoim, Conn. 

Wheeler, Lieut. Geo. M. Collection of skins and alcoholic collection of 
mammals; two boxes of fossils and minerals; eight hundred and 
ninety bird-skins, six nests, eleven eggs, seven hundred and sixty 
coleoptera, forty-three lots of hemiptera, one hundred and ninety- 
four hymenoptera, one hundred and forty-five lepidoptera ; botanical 
collection of 187-1; Indian blankets, quivers, &c. ; six skins of gray 
fox {V'ulpes littoralis) from Santa Cruz, Cal.; t;vo boxes of type 
fossils. 

Wesche, Charles E. Specimen of beetle from New Mexico. 

Wetherby, A. G. Stone implements from Ohio. 

White, Dr. C. A. Cast of fossil tooth from Iowa; fragment of the 
" great Iowa meteorite." 

White, W. F. Nest and eggs from Mebanesville, N. C. 

Whiteaves, J. S. Sixteen bottles of alcoholic fishes from Saint Lawrence 
Eiver and Gulf; forty-five species of shells from Gulf of Saint Law 
reuce. 

Whitman, G. P. Specimens of crevalle and crab; sea-mouse, {Aphrodite) 
from Massachusetts. 

Whitney Armory. Two rifles and one shot-gun, breech-loading. 

WicJcs, George T. Fossil ore and ("?) brown hematite. 

Wiggans, John B. Steatite pyramid from Chula, Amelia County, Ya. ; 
unfinished stone implement from same place. 

Williams, Raven & Co. Fur-seal skins from Patagonia. 

Williamson, Hon. George, TJ. S. minister, Guatemala. Ethnological collec- 
tion from Guatemala. 

Wilson, A. D. Nest and four eggs of white-tailed ptarmigan {Lagopus 
leucurus) from Colorado. (Dr. Hayden's expedition.) 

Wilson, Eev. C. W. Two copper beads from Wisconsin. 

Woodforth, Philip R. Specimen of horns and hoofs of domesticated 
bovines. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 89 

Woosfer, A. F. Specimen of marble from Connecticut ; arrow-points, 
and old Continental newspapers and Continental sixty-tive-dollar note, 
1779; specimen of salamander {Plethodon erythronotus) from Connec- 
ticut, 
W)i<jlif, J. W. A. Fossil fish from Wyoming Territory. 
YarroiCy Br. R. G. Collection of foreign shells ; fossils and celt ; collec- 
tion of alcoholic fishes, reptiles, and insects. 
Zoological Society of London. Fragment of " new marine animal" from 

Northwest coast United States. 
Washington, D. C. : 
Department of State. See under the name of George Williaynson., U. S, 

minister, Guatemala. 
Treasury Department, United States Coast Survey. See under the 

names of A. W. Chase, W. H. Dall, and Edwin Smith. 
War Department : 
United States Armyi See under the names of General ]\r. G. Meigs, 
Col. A. G. Braclcett, Capt. Charles Bendire, Capf. A. W. Corliss, 
Capt. James Gilliss, Lieuts. W. L. Carpenter, J. F. Huston, and 
George M. ^\'heeler. 
Surgeon-GeneraVs Office, United States Army Medical Museum, {Dr. G. 

A. Otis in charge.) Tonto Apache; medicine-stick; clay-pipe from 
Virginia ; feathered bonuet of Cheyenne medicine-man from Kan- 
sas. See also under the names of Drs. G. C. Byrne, FJ. McClellan, 
Elliott Coues, J. 31. Laing, and George S. Moran, medical officers 
United States Army. 

Surveys u-est of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut. G. M. Wheeler in 
charge. General zoological collections made by Drs. FT. C. Yar- 
row, J. F. RothrocJc, and 2[r. FT. W. Henshaw. 

Signal Service U. S. Army. See under the name of Sergeant Fjucien 
M. Turner. 
Navy Department, U. S. A. : 

U. S. Navy. See under the names of Commander E. P. Lull, Lieut. 

B. Long Edes, and F. M. Gunnell, 2fedical Director U. S. N.; also 
under Passed Assistant Engineer G. W. Baird, 

Bureau of Kavigation, Commodore Daniel Ammen. Specimens of 
ocean-bottom between San Francisco and the Sandwich Islands; 
dredgings by United States Steamer Narragansett in Gulf of Cali- 
fornia, Commander George Dcicey ; natural-history specimens from 
Pacific Ocean, United States Steamer Tuscarora. See also under 
names of Drs. Kidder, Kershner, Coues, W. IL Jones, T. 11. Streets, 
and Bransford. 
Interior Department, U. S. A. : 

General Land-Office. See under the names of Surveyors-General Jj. 

Hardenburgh and John Wasson. 
United States Geological Survey of the Territories, {Prof F. V. llayden 
in charge.) One stone; nine mammal-skins; ten fkulls of mam- 
mals; two skins of birds from Colorado. 



90 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

United States Commission of FisJi and Fisheries, {Prof. Spencer F. 
Baird, Commissioner.) One hundred and fifty-four boxes of gen- 
eral zoological collections from Wood's Hole, Mass., and vicinity, 
by Pro/. A. F. Verrill, G. Brotvn Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean; 
two large tank reptiles and |ishes from Kiuston, N. C. ; specimen 
of red fish (Scicvnops ocellatus) from North Carolina ; collection of 
insects from Kinston, N. C. ; two boxes of insects from Waukegan, 
III., and collection of fishes from Potomac Eiver, by James W. 
Milner ; three boxes collection of fishes from California, box of 
alcoholic specimens from McCloud River, Cal., and case of 
ethnological collections from California, by Livingston Sto7ie ; al- 
coholic fishes from Mississippi, by Frederick Mather ; one bottle 
of natural-history specimens from Ferry Landing, Va., speci- 
mens of sturgeon and gar, [Lepidosteus osseus,) by S. W. 
WelsJier; skeleton of black-fish, {GlohiccpJialns melas :) box of 
fish from Wood's Hole, Mass. ; baleen and chin of hump-back 
whale, specimen of young sea-salmon, {Salmo salar,) baleen of 
finback whale, conger-eel, box of fishes, invertebrates, &c., eight 
boxes of fresh fish, specimens of Scomberesox and Pomolohus, two 
skeletons of cow-fish, and skeleton Grampus, by Vinal N.Edwards; 
models of boats, &c. 
Survey of the Colorado, {Maj. J. W. Poicell in charge.) Five boxes of 
fossils; skull of bison, {Biso7i americanus;) ten boxes of ethnological 
specimens ; four boxes of general collection. 
Department of Agriculture, [Hon. Fredericlc Watts, Commissioner.) Co- 
coons, &c., of B. mori; 200 living fire-flies, Photinus [Flliperlampis) 
pyralis, for introduction into Bermuda, &c. 



EXCHANGES. 



91 



STATISTICS OF LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES IN 1875. 

i-.OXES SENT ABROAD. 



Agcut aud coiiutiy. 



No. of 
boxes. 



Cubic- 
feet. 



Weight in 
pounds. 



To Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm 

To Royal Danish Society of Copenhagen 

To Royal University of Norway, Christiana 

To L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg, Russia 

To Fr. Miiller, Amsterdam, for Belgium 

To Prof, von Baumhauer, Bureau Seientifique Neerlandais, Har- 
lem. 
To Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzic : 

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, aud Greece 

To (iustave Bossange, Paris 

To U. Hoepli, Reale Istituto Lombard! di Scienze e Lettere, 

Milauo. 
To William Wesley, London : 

Great Britain, British possessions in Asia, Ac 

To Academia Real das Sciencas, Lisbon 

To Real Academia do Ciencias de Madrid 

To Cuba, Real Uni versidad de la Habana 

To Chili, University 

To Mexico, Sociedad Mexicana de Geogratia y Esiadisca 

To Prof. Burmeister, Buenos Ayres 

To Georgetown, Brifish Guiana 

To Peru': 



To Foreijrn governments. 



4(; 

18 

8 



4:? 



30 
21 
15 
(J5 
45 
30 



325 

130 
GO 



14 



900 
(500 
400 
1,800 
1,200 
900 



10, 000 
3, GOO 
l,uOO 



8. GOO 
400 
400 
200 
400 
200 
200 
150 
200 



154 1 1123 I 31,800 
54 i 380 ! 13,500 



208 1 1.503 



45, 300 



Besides these, 1 box was seut to Turkey by favor of the American 
Board of Commissiouers for Foreign Missions in Boston, and smaller 
boxes to Nicaragua, Costa Eica, Guatemala, Bogota, Kingston, 
(Jamaica,) Trinidad, (Port of Spain,) St. Pierre, Martinique, CapeTown, 
Katal, St. Helena. 

Go vernnient exchanges. 

Boxes. 

To Government of Ontario, Toronto, Canada 2 

To Parliamentary Library, O tta wa, Canada 1 

To Fi'ance, Portugal, Sw«Mleu, Turkey, set of G boxes 24 

To Mexico, Brazil, Argentine Republic, set of 6 boxes each 18 

To Belgium and Chili, 4 boxes eaeii 8 

To Japan 1 

Total 54 



92 



EXCHANGES. 



PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE, 
ETC., IN 1875, FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA. 



CALIFORNIA. No. 

Oaldand : 

University of California 1 

Sacramento : 

California Institution 1 

Geological Survey of California 7 

Sacramento Agricultural Society 1 

State Library 3 

San Francisco : 
California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 79 

Historical Society 1 

Mayor of the City of San Francisco. . 1 

Mercantile Library Association . . 2 

Stockton : 

California Insane Asylum 1 

CONNECTICUT. 

Hartford : 
Connecticut State Board of Agriculture 1 

Young Men's Institute 2 

New Haven : 

American Journal of Science and Arts .54 

American Oriental Society 26 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 107 

Sheffield Scientific School 1 

Yale College 11 

Yale College Observatory d 

Young Men's Christian Association.. . 1 
Young Men's Christian Association, 

(German) 1 

DISTIUCT OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown : 

Georgetown College ti 

Waf<hinf/ton : 

Board of Indian Commissioners 1 

Bureau of Education 7 

Bureau of Navigation 1 

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 1 

Bureau of Statistics 20 

Census Bureau 9 

Chief of Engineers 2 

Coast Survey 54 

Columbian College 1 

Commissioners of the District of Co- 
lumbia 1 

Department of Agriculture 105 

Engineer Department 1 

General Laud-Ofiice 4 

Gcohjgical Survey of th3 Territories. 44 

Ilydrographic Office 6 

Interior Department 1 

Library of Congress 29 

Medical Society of the District of Co- 
lumbia ~, 1 

NationalAcademy of Science 47 

Nautical Almanac 3 



District Columbia— Continued. No. 
Washington : 

National Deaf-Mute College 1 

Naval Observatory 58 

Navy Department 2 

Ordnance Bureau 1 

Patent-Office 134 

Public schools 1 

Signal Office .. 30 

State Department 3 

Surgeon-General's Office 127 

Swedish and Norwegian Legation I 

Treasury Department 2 

War Department G 

Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 

ILLINOIS. 

Chicago : 

Botanical Garden 1 

Chicago Academy of Science Ct,'> 

Chicago Historical Society 1 

Chicago Public Library 3 

Dearborn Observatory 4 

Mayor of the City of Chicago 1 

Young Men's Association Library 1 

JaclctioinnUe : 

Illinois State Hospital for Insane 1 

Peoria : 

Mercantile Library 1 

Eantoul: 

Rantoul Li terary Society 2 

INDIANA. 

Indianapolis : 

Geological Survey of Indiana IG 

Indiana Institution for the Blind 2 

State Library 1 

IOWA. 

I)es Moines : 

State Library 3 

loiva City : 

Geological Survey of Iowa 1 

Iowa State University 20 

Laboratory of Physical Science 1 

KANSAS. 

Leavenworth Cifi/ : 

Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 

Topeka : 

Kansas Academy of Science 1 

KENTUCKY. 

Canibridge : 

College I 

Frankfort : 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 1 

Lexington : 

Agricultural College 1 

Youne Men's Christ ian Association ... 1 



EXCHANGES. 93 

PacJcages received by the Smithsonian Institution, dc. — Coutiuued. 



Kentucky — Contiuued. No. 

LoiiisviUe: 
Eicbmoiul and Louisvillo Medical 

Jourual 1 

LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans : 

Mayor of the City of Now Oilenns 1 

New Oi'loans Acadtnuy of Natural 

Sciences 42 

State Library 7 

Uuiverijity of Louisiana 1 

MAIN!-:. 

Auyusfa : 

State Library 1 

Bntniiivick : 

Bowdoin College 3 

Historical Society of Maine 1 

Po7-ilaiid : 

Coiniuissiouer of Fisberies ~ 

Portland Society of Natural History. . 40 

WaterviUe : 

Colby University 1 

MARYLAND. 

Annapolis : 

State Library 1 

United States Naval Academy 1 

Baltimore : 

Maryland Historical Society 2 

Mayor of tbe city of Baltimore 1 

Mercantile Library 2 

Peabody Institute 4 

Young Men's Christian Association.. 1 

MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst : 

Agricultural College 1 

Amherst College 2 

Geological Survey of Massachusetts . . 1 

Boston : 
American Academy of Arts and 

Sciences 172 

American Social Science Association. 1 

American Statistical Association 11 

Board of Agriculture 4 

Board of Education 2 

Board of State Charities 2 

Boston Art Club 1 

Boston Athenauini 1 

Boston lIotsi)ital Library 1 

Boston Medical and Surgical .Journal. 7 

Boston Society of Natural History .... 240 

Bowditch Library 2 

Gy niecological Society 1 

Massachusetts H istorical Society IS 

Mayor of the City of Boston 1 

Mercantile Jjibrary Association 1 

Perkins Institution for the Blind 1 

Prison Discipline Society 1 

Public Library IG 

State Li l)rary i» 

Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 



Massacii usetts— Con t i lined . No. 

Cambridge : 

Cambridge Entomological Club 1 

Harvard College 26 

Harvard College Observatory 31 

Harvard College Herbarium 4 

IMuseuin of Comparative Zoology 111 

Jamaica Plain : 

Bussey Institution 7 

Nortliampon : 

State Lunatic Hospital 1 

Salem : 
American Association for the Advance- 
ment of Science 41 

American Naturalist 2 

Essex Institute 94 

North Church and Society 1 

Peabody Academy of Sciences 72 

Worcester : 

American Anti(iuarian Society 14 

MICHIGAN. 

A)in Arhor : 

Observatory .. 6 

University of Michigan 1 

Detroit: 

Michigan State Agricultural Society. 7 

Museuai 1 

Public Library 1 

Lansinej : 

Agricultural College I 

Michigan State Board of Health 1 

State Library 1 

MINNESOTA. 

Minneapolis : 
Minneapolis Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 6 

Saint Paul : 

Minnesota Historical Society 8 

State Hospital for Insane 1 

MLSSOUIU. 

Jejferson City : 

Governor of the State of Missouri .... I 

Saint Louis : 

Geological Survey of Missouri 20 

Mayor of the City of Saint Louis.. .. 1 

Public School Library 1 

Saint Louis Academy of Sciences.. .. 117 

State Board of Agriculture 1 

University of Saint Louis 3 

NERUASKA. 

Omaha : 
Young Men's Christian Association. .. 2 

NEW IIAMPSHIKE. 

Concord : 
Nev/ Hampshire Asylum for the In- 
sane 1 

New Hampshire Historical Society. .. 1 



94 EXCHANGES. 

Faclcages received by the Smithsonian Institution^ &c. — Coutiuued. 



Xkw Eami'SHIKE— Continued. No. 

Concord : 
State Prison 1 

Youug Men's Christian Association.. 1 

Hanover : 

Dartmouth College '^ 

Observatory of Dartmouth College.. . 1 

ilanchesier : 
City Library 1 

NEW JERSEY. 

iVeu' Brunswick : 
Geological Survey of New Jersey 2 

Princeton : 

College of New Jersey 3 

Halstead Observatory 1 

NEW YORK. 

Albany : 

Albany Institute 22 

Dudley Observatory 23 

New York State Agricultural Society. 19 

New York State Library 41 

New York State Museum of Natural 

History 9 

New Y'ork State University 6 

Young Men's Christian Association.. 1 

Brooklyn : 

Mayor of the City of Brooklyn 1 

Mercantile Library Association 1 

Young Men's Christian Association.. . 1 

Buffalo : 

Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences.. . 31 

Medical and Surgical Journal 1 

Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 

Clinton : 
Hamilton College Observatory 3 

Hohoken : 
Stevens Institute of Technology 4 

Ithaca : 
Cornell University 2 

Xeic York : 

American Bible Society 1 

American Chemist 4 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society r)4 

American Institute 2.3 

American Museum of Natural History 10 

American Society of Civil Engineers. 13 

Anthropological Institute of New York 5 

Apprentices' Library 1 

Astor Library 10 

Board of Health 2 

Board of ilissions of tlie Proti^tant 

Episcopal Church 1 

Chamber of Commerce 3 

Columbia College 2 

Cooper Institute 1 

Dermatological Society 1 

Engineering and Miniug .lournal 17 

International Keview .1 



Nkw York — Continued. No, 

Xeiv York: 

Institute for the Blind 1 

Lyceum of Natural History 105- 

Manufacturer and Builder B 

Mayor of the City of New York 1 

Medical Journal I 

Mercantile Library .i 

Metropolitan Museum of Art.. 2 

Microscopical Society 1 

Numismatic and ArchsBological Soci- 
ety i 

New York Academy of Medicine ^ 

New Yorker Handels-Zeitung 1 

New York Herald 1 

New York Historical Society 1 

New York Hungarian Society I 

Observatory, Central Park :J 

Sanitarian 12- 

School of Mines 6 

Superintendent of Insurance Depart- 
ment S 

Swedish and Norwegian Consulate.. . 1 

Torrej' Botanical Club 1 

United States Sanitary Commission.. 7 

University 6 

Youug Men's Christian Association.. . 1 
Youug Men's Christian Association, 

(German) 1 

Fouf/hkecpfiie : 

Vassar College 1 

Sing Sing: 

State Lunatic Asylum 1 

State Prison 1 

Ward's Island: 

Emigrants' Refuge and Hospital 1 

West Point: 
President of the Committee of Engi- 
neers 1 

Willard : 

Willard Asylum for Insane 1 

OHIO. 

Cincinnati : 

Astronomical Observatory 2G 

Historical and Philosophical Society. t 

Longview Asylum for Insane 1 

Mayor of the City of Cincinnati I 

Medical College of Ohio 1 

Mercantile Library 2- 

Ohio Mechanics' Institute 1 

Public Library 3 

Columhus : 

Geological Survey of Ohio 4 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture .39 

State Library IS 

North Bend : 

Ohio State Horticultural Society 1 

PEXNSY LVA NI A . 

Alleghany: 

jVlleghany Observatory 4 



EXCHANGES. 95 

Favhujes received hi) the ISmUhsonian Institution, d^c. — Continued. 



Pennsylvania — Continued. No. 

Danrille: 

State Hospital for the Insane 1 

EiXHton : 
American lustiriite of Mining Eiigi- 

Lafayette College 1 

Uarrishurgh : 

State Library 2 

State Lunatic Hospital 1 

PhUadclphia : 

Academy of Natural Sciences 194 

Agricultural Society of Phihidelphia , 1 

American Entomological Society .... 12 

American Institute of Architects 3 

American Journal of Conchol(»gy 2 

American Pharmaceutical Association 25 

American Philosophical Society 136 

Board of Public Education 4 

Central High School 1 

College of Physicians 1 

Eastern State Penitentiary 1 

Franklin Institute 29 

Girard College 1 

Historical Society 6 

Jefferson Medical College 1 

Library Company 2 

Mayor of the City of Philadelphia. . . . 1 

Medical Society of Pennsylvania 1 

Medical Times 13 

Pennsylvania Hospital Library 1 

Society for Alleviating the Miseries of 

Public Prisons 1 

University of Pennsylvania 1 

Wagner Free Institute of Science. . . . 15 

Zoological Society 2 

Pittsburgh : 

Western Penitentiary 1 

KHODE ISLAND. 

rroridoivc : 

Athemeum 1 

IJrown University 2 

Phode Island Historical Society 2 

SOUTH CAKOLINA. 

Charleston : 

Charleston Library Society 2 

Elliott Society of Naturaf History.. . 7 

Columbia : 

University of South Carolina 1 

TEXAS. 

Jutitin : 

State Lunatic Asylum 1 

Chappell Ilili : 

Soul6 Univers'ity 3 

VEimONT. 
Bristol : 
Orleans County Society of Natural 

Science 24 



Vkkjxont — Continued. No. 

Burlington : 
University of Vermont 1 

Monlpelier : 
State Library- 2 

Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 

Vir.GINIA. 

Charlottesville : 
University of Virginia 4 

Lynchburgh : 
Young Men's Christian Association.. . 1 

liichmond : 

State Li brary 2 

Young Men's Christian Association.. . 1 

IViUiamsburgh: 
Eastern Lunatic Asylum 2 

WISCONSIN. 

Janesville : 
Wisconsin Institution for the Blind.. 1 

Madison : 

State Board of Agriculture 1 

Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, 
aiul Letters 14 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society. 32 
Young Men's Christian Associatioa. .. 1 

Mihraukec : 
Young Men's Christian Association ... 1 

Scandinavian Library Association 1 

Oshkosh : 
Northern Hospital for the Insane 1 

BRITISH AMERICA. 

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island : 
Lunatic Asylum 1 

Frederieton, New Brunswick: 
Geological Survey of New Brunswi'jk. 2 

Halifax, Nora Scotia : 
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci- 
ences 4 

Kingston, Ontario : 

Botanical Society of Canada 2 

Queen's College 1 

London, Ontario : 
London Asylum for Insane 1 

Montreal, Quebec: 

Geological Survey of Canada 5 

McGill College 1 

Meteorological 01>servatoi'y 1 

Natural History Society 27 

Quebec, Quebec : 

Astronomical Observatory 3 

Literary and Historical Society 11 

Ottatva, Ontario : 
Librarv of Parliament 3 



96 EXCHANGES. 

FacJcages received hy the Smithsonian Itistitutioti, tfcc. — Continued. 



British America — Contiuiied. No. 

St. Jalin's, Netv Brunswick : 

Natural History Society 8 

St. John^s, Ne^wfoundland: 

Geological Survey of Newfoundlaud. 2 

Toronto, Ontario: 

Canadian Entomological Society 1 

Canadian Institute 10 

House of Assembly 1 

Literary and Historical Society 1 

Magnetical and Meteorological Obser- 
vatory 9 

Toronto Globe 1 

University of Toronto 4 

INDIVIDUALS. 

Abbe, Dr. C 7 

Agassiz, Prof. A 18 

Agnew, Dr. E. A 1 

Allen, H 1 

Allen, J. A 2 

Althorf, Dr. H 1 

Alvord, B 1 

Ames, Miss M. E. Pulsifer 2 

Angerer, A. W 4 

x\nthony, J. C 1 

Appleton »& Co 1 

Atlee, Dr. W.D 1 

Austin, C. F 1 

Baird, Prof. S. F 81 

Ballard, J 2 

Bancroft, Hon. G 1 

Barnard, H 1 

Barnes, Surgeon-General J. K 1 

Barnes, Hon. W 1 

Barrick, Dr 1 

Bartlett, Hon. J. E 1 

Bebb,M.S 2 

Bell, R 1 

Bessels, Dr. E 6 

Bethune, Rev. C. J. S 1 

Billings E 2 

Billings, Dr. J. S 1 

Binuey W. G 2 

Bland, T 2 

Bliss, R 1 

Blodget, L 1 

Boardnian, G. A 1 

Boehmer, G. H 1 

Bolander, H. A 1 

Broadhead, G. C ;} 

Brennan, S. A. L 1 

Brewer, Dr. T. M 2 

Brewer, Miss CM 1 

Brewster, Mrs. .J 1 

Brown, A. D 1 

Brown, J. C 1 

Brown, S. G 4 

lirusb, Prof. G. J 2 

Bucknell, R. E., Lieut 2 

C a n by , W . M 2 

Carpenter, P. P 1 

Chandler, Dr 1 

Chickering, Prof. J. W 1 

Clift, H. A 1 



Individuals— Continued. 



No. 



Coffin. Prof. J. H. C 3 

Colviu,V 1 

Cope, Prof. E. D 9 

Coues, Dr. E 10 

Cox, E. T .<-> 

Cummings, M 1 

Curtis, Dr 2 

Da Costa, Dr : 1 

Dall, W. H 24 

Dana, Prof. J. D 32 

Davies, H. C 1 

Davis, Miss J. X 1 

Dawson, Prof. J. W 01 

Delanev, J 1 

Dike, C 1 

Dobson, James 1 

Dobson, John 1 

Dodge, C. R 1 

Dow, Capt. J. M 5 

Dowler, B I 

Doyle, Lieut.-Gen. Sir H 4 

Draper, Dr. H 8 

Dutton, Capt. C. E 4 

Eads, J.B 1 

Eaton, Prof. D. C 2 

Eaton, Hon. J 1 

Eastman, Prof J. R 1 

Edwards, W. H 2 

Egleston.Prof.T 1 

Elliott, D. G 4 

Elliot,E. B 1 

Elliott, H. W 1 

Ellis, F. B 1 

Emerson, Prof. B 1 

Emmet, Dr 1 

Endlich, Dr. F. M 1 

Engelman, Dr. G 3 

E vans. Prof. E. P 1 

Fay, S 1 

Forrel, W 4 

Fisher, Dr. G.J 1 

Fiss, G. W 1 

Foreman, H. L 1 

Gale, Dr. L. D 1 

Gardner, Prof. J. F 1 

Gibbons, Dr. W. P 1 

Gill, Dr. T 11 

Gnauvold, Dr 1 

Goode, G. B 1 

Gray, Proi; A 25 

Greene, Rev. E. L 3 

Gross, Dr. S.D 2 

Grote, A. B 1 

Guyot, Prof. A 9 

Hagen, Prof. H 2 

Hall, Prof. A :; 

Hall, Dr. C 1 

Hall, Prof. J l:) 

Hamilton. Dr. F. H ! 1 

Hammond, Dr. W. A 2 

Harding, C. L 1 

Harding, E 1 

Harding, G. W 1 

Harkuess, Prof 1 

Harper & Brothers 2 



()-7 



EXCHANGES. \J ( 

Puclages received hy the JSmWisonian Instiiution, dx. — Continued. 



IxDiviDUAr,s — Continued. 



No. 



Hnit, rrof. J. M 1 

Hawkins, R. C 1 

Ii;iva.,-n, Dr. F. V 97 

llediiL-k. Dr. S 1 

ilcurv, Prof. .J 27 

Heurv, Dr. M. II 1 

Higgins, D. F 1 

Hijigins, E. S 1 

Hilgarcl, Dr. E. W 1 

Hiigard, Prof. J. E 2 

Hill, G.W 1 

Iliuriebs, I'rof. G 13 

llettiuger, J . W 1 

Hitz, J 2 

Hodges, Dr 1 

Hoiigb, Dr. F 1 

Holdeu, Prof. E. S 3 

Honians, Sheppard 1 

Hoppin, Prof. J. M 1 

Horn, Dr. G. II 1 

Horn, J 1 

Hough, F.B 1 

HuiupLreys, Geu. A. A 3 

Hunt, Dr-'fe^terry 2 

Hyatt, Prof. A 2 

Jackson, Lieut. H 1 

Jarvis, Dr. E 38 

Jewett, Col. E 2 

Keunedy, J. C.G 1 

King, Clarence 3 

Kingston, G. T 4 

Knapp, Dr. H 1 

Krout, A. F. K 7 

Koistendahl, liev. C 2 

Laugiey, Prof 1 

LawroLce, G. N 3 

Lawson, Prof. E 1 

Lea, Isaac 1.') 

Le Conte, Dr. J. L 7 

Lee, Admiral S. P 1 

Lee, Capt. T.J 1 

Lees, J. S 1 

Lf-id.y , ]>rof J 8 

Lesley, i'lof. J. P 2 

Lesq uwreux, Prof. L 9 

Lewis. A 1 

Looniis, Prof. E 10 

Lo\ ering, I'rof. J 5 

Lyman, 13. S 8 

Lyman, T 4 

-McAlpine.M 3 

McLean, F. P 

McMaster, A 

McMurlrie, W 

Marcou, Prof. J 13 

Marsh, Prof F. A 

Marsh, Prof O. C 

Mason, Prof O. T 

Matile, Prof. G. A 

Matthew, G. F 

Meek, Prof F. B 2 

Meigs, Dr. J. A 

Meigs, Gen. M. C 

Mdner, J. W 2 

Mitchell, Miss M 2 

S. Mis. 115 7 



l.NDivinrALS — Continued. No. 

Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir 1 

Morgan, W 1 

Morris, Prof. G. S 1 

Mnnn, A 1 

Mycr, Brevet Brig. Gen. A. J IC 

Newberry, Dr. J . S ] 

Newct)mb, Dr 1 

Newcomb, Prof. S 10 

Newton, H. A 4 

Oliphant, L 1 

Olmstead, Kev. L I 

Osborne, J. W 1 

Packard, Dr. A. S (5 

Palmer, Dr. E 1 

Palmer, J 1 

Pancoasr, Dr. AV. H 1 

Parker, Dr. P 1 

Patterson, T. W 1 

Pearson, J 1 

Peirce, Prof. B '.', 

Peters, Prof. C. H. F f> 

Pettersen, F 1 

Pbilbrick.J 1 

Phillips, Dr. W. A 1 

Poole, H. S 1 

Poole, W. F 1 

Pourlier, Dr 1 

Powell, J. W 1 

Prime, T 1 

Putnam, Prof. F. W 4 

liiley, C. V 2 

Rittler, Dr. J 1 

Roberts, G 2 

Ridgway, Robert 8 

Robinson, R. W 1 

Rogers, W. A 1 

Rosenthal, A 1 

Ross, A. M 1 

Ruggles, S. B 1 

Rutherford, L. M 4 

Safford, T. H 2 

St. John, O 1 

Salisbury, Prof E. E 2 

Sargent, Prof i 

Sayre, Dr. L i 

Schali,P 1 

Schott, Dr. A 1 

Schott, Prof. C. A 2 

Schuster, M 3 

Scudder, S. H 1 

Seaman, W. H 1 

Senborn, Baron 1 

Selwyn, A. R. C 2 

Shepard, I'rof. C. V I 

Silliman, Prof. B 12 

Sims,Dr. M 1 

Slater, H.N 2 

Smith, Ak!X 2 

Smith, Prof Hamihon L (j 

Smith, I'rof S. 1 1 

Snow, Dr. E. M ,^> 

Sp(dl'ord, A. R 1 

Sqnicr, E. G 4 

Stirling, Prof C 1 

Stone, Prof. O 1 



98 EXCHANGES. 

Paclcages received hy the SmitJisonian Institution^ &c. — Continued. 



Indivk>uals — Continued. No. 

Strong, Hon. W 1 

Taft, K. E 2 

Taylor, Dr. 1 1 

Taylor, Dr. R. W 1 

Thomas, Prof. Cyrus 2 

Thomson, J. H 3 

Tietze, Dr. E 2 

Toner, Dr. J. M 1 

Tryou,G. W 3 

Tnckerman, Prof. E 9 

Uhler,Dr. P. E 1 

Vasev, G 1 

Verrill, Prof. A. E 5 

Watson, Prof. J. C 2 

Watson, S 1 

Weeden, W. B 2 

W^estermauu, B 1 

Weston, H. C 1 

Wheeler, Lieut. G. M 5 



Individuals— Coutiuued. No. 

W^heeler, Prof 1 

White, Dr. C. A 12 

White, Lieut. H. C 1 

Whitney, Prof. J. D. 7 

Whitney, Prof. W. D 15 

Wilkes, Admiral C 1 

Wilson, D 1 

Wiulock. Prof. J 1 

Wood, Dr. H. C 1 

Woodward, Dr. J.J 2 

Woodworth, Dr. J. M 1 

Worthen, A. II 1 

Wylie,W 1 

Wy man. Commodore E. H 1 

Yates, L. G 1 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C 8 

Young, Prof. C. A 4 

Young, C. B 10 



EECAPITULATION. 

Total addresses of institut ions 329 

Total addresses of individuals 2<SI 

610 

Total number of parcels to institutions 3, G19 

Total number of parcels to individuals 1, 042 



4, mi 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C., January 10, 187G. 

In accordance with a resolution of tlie Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meet- 
ing on the third Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met 
to-day, at 7 o'clock p. m. 

Present, Chief-Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution ; Hon. T. 
W. Ferry, acting Vice-President of the United States; Hon. J. W. 
Stevenson, Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. B. H. Hill, Hon. 
G. W. McCrary, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. Peter Parker, Hon. 
George Bancroft, and Professor Henry, the Secretary. 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

The Secretary presented the following communication : 

forty-fourth congress, first session. 

Congress of the United States, 
In the House of Representatives^ December 14, 1875. 
The Speaker appointed the following-named members Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution on the part of tbe House : 
Mr. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Benjamin H. Hill, of Georgia. 
Mr. George W. McCrary, of Iowa. 

Attest: " GEO. M. ADAMS, Clerl. 

A letter was read from Hon. H. Hamlin, stating that he was unavoid- 
ably detained from attendance at this meeting. 

The Secretary stated that he had the painful duty to announce the 
death, since the last session of the Board, of the Hon. Henry Wilson, 
Vice-President of the United States. 
On motion of Dr. Parker, it was 

liesolved, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare resolu- 
tions expressing the sentiments of the Board in regard to the death of 
Hon. Henry Wilson. 

The Chancellor appointed Hon. Dr. Parker, Hon. T. W. Ferry, and 
Hon. J. W. Stevenson. 

The Secretary presented a general exhibit of the condition of the 
fund, and the receipts and expenditures for the year 1875 ; which was 
referred to the Executive Committee. 

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, stated that, in order to 

99 



100 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

save time, tbe committee bad already examined all the vouchers and 
accounts of the Institution and of the National Museum, with the ex- 
ception of eleven, which had been j>aid since the first of January, and 
was prepared to make a partial report, and that a full report would be 
made at the next meeting. He accordingly presented a statement of 
the receipts and expenditures, of the accounts examined, and a history 
of the funds, reserving until the next meeting the remainder of the 
report. 

The Secretary gave an account of the method of keeping the accounts, 
drawing checks, &c., and showed tbe necessity of making up the annual 
statements of receipts and expenditures to include the semi-annual in- 
terest due on the 1st of January, but which this year had not been 
received from the Treasury Department until the 16th of January. 

Tbe Secretary also presented, for the information of tbe new mem- 
bers, a general account of tbe operations of the Institution, and the 
plans which had been adopted to carry out the will of Smithsou " to in- 
crease and diliuse knowledge among men." 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Wednesday, 2Gth January, at 
7 o'clock. 

Washington, D. C, January 26, 1876. 

A meeting of the Board of Eegents was held this' day, at 7 o'clock 
p. m., in the Regent's room of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Present, Chief Justice Waite, Chancellor of the Institution ; Hon. T. 
W. Ferry, acting Vice-President of the United States ; Hon. H. Hamlin, 
Hon. A. A. Sargent, Hon. H. Clymer, Hon. B. H. Hill, Hon. Peter Parker, 
Hon. George Bancroft, Professor Asa Gray, Professor Henry Copp6e, 
and the Secretary, Professor Henry. 

The minutes of tbe last meeting were read and approved. 

Excuses for non-attendance were presented from Hon. J. W. Steven- 
son, Hon. G. W. McCrary, and Professor J. D. Dana. 

Dr. Parker, from the special committee to prepare resolutions on the 
death of tbe late Vice-President, Hon. Henry Wilson, jjresented tbe fol- 
lowing report and resolutions, which, be stated, had the approval of all 
the members of the committee : 

Since the last annual meeting of tbe Board of Regents of tbe Smith- 
sonian Institution, Henry Wilson, Vice-President of the United States, 
and an honored member of tbe Regency, having departed this life, tbe 
Board deem it suitable that a just tribute to bis memory and worth bo 
entered upon the records of the Institution : Therefore, 

Resolved, That among tbe distinguished men of tbe first century of 
our national existence who have been prominent for patriotism, practi- 
cal wisdom, statemanship and high moral and Christian character, im- 
partial history will assign Henry Wilson a distinguished rank ; and as 
a representative man of the class of " self-made men'^ to which the ver- 
dict of mankind assigns exalted positions, the late Vice-President of 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 101 

the United States will long be remembered and bigbly appreciated by 
l)osterity. 

Eesolued, That the Secretary cause a copy of these resolutions to be 
transmitted to the relatives of the deceased. 

])r. Parker then made the following remarks : 

Mr. Chancellor: Fitting encomiums upon the late Vice President have 
already been pronounced, both in the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives of the United States, and, so far as I am informed, with an una- 
nimity of appreciation, irrespective of all lines of demarkation, truly re- 
markable; and the pen and the press, not only in this but also in every 
civilized countr3', will set forth his just merits in appropriate panegyric. 
Eesides, this is neither the place nor the occasion for extended eulogy, 
yet 1 desire brief indulgence. 

The late Vice-President was my personal friend, and the proximity of 
our summer residences facilitated the exchange of social and friendly 
intercourse. It was my privilege also to see him in his last illness. 

The prominent characteristics of Mr. Wilson, his humble origin, indi- 
gence, limited means of early education, the resolute determination by 
which he surmounted difficulties and rose to great distinction ; his suc- 
cess in the attainment of lofty aspirations, even surpassing some of his 
contemporaries who had the greater advantages of classical and profes- 
sional learning, are too well known to require repetition. 

I wish, however, to recall very concisely only two of his distinguish- 
ing traits. 

As a means to an end, Mr. Wilson was emulous of high positions that 
he might render it promotive of the best interests of the country, and of 
all classes composing it, especially the poor and the enslaved. 

Whilst sincere in his practice and advocacy of temperance, in his de- 
nunciation of slavery, and his expressions of sympathy for the laborer. 
he had the sagacity to use these as means to the attainment of the 
coveted positions of high office and national influence. He was emulous 
also of distinguished place not only for its utility in the present, but 
still more so in reference to the future. I remember well his emphatic 
remark when the intelligence was received of the death of the eminent 
historian Prescott: "JT had rather live, as Frcscotf will lire, in history, 
than he President of the United States.''^ 

Here maybe found, I think, the predominating influence that urged 
liim on in the completion of his historical work; with an all-absorbing 
devotion that far exceeded his physical and mental strength, and but 
for which, humanly speaking, he might be with us still. 

Tlie other prominent characteristic to which I wish simi)ly to advert 
is, in his later years, his truly religious life. No one intimately ac- 
quainted with Mr. Wilson subsequently to his public profession of re- 
ligion can doubt the genuineness of his Christian faith. 

The hymn which he rosc^ from his sick-pillow to mark at three o'clock 
in the morning, only a lew bonis bciore breathing his last, as though 



102 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

preadmoiiislied liis end had come, entitled " The ChriHtian and Ms echo," 
may be regarded as a true esi^oueut of his religious character, and as 
his last legacy to the country and the world — 
" True faith producing love to God and man." 

The resolutions submitted by the committee were then adopted unani- 
mously by a rising vote. 

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the an- 
nual report of the receipts, expenditures, estimates, &c. ; which, on 
motion of Mr. Sargent, was adopted. 

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the 
Institution for the year 1875 ; which was read, and various suggestions 
contained in it were discussed at some length by the members of the 
Board. 

On motion of Dr. Gray, it was 

Resolved, That a special committee of three be appointed to take into 
consideration the connection of the Smithsonian Institution and the 
i^ational Museum, and to recommend such action as may be thought 
proper in relation to the matter. 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Gray, Clymer, and Sargent as the 
committee. 

The report of the Secretary as to what the Smithsonian Institution 
was doing and had done in relation to the Centennial Exhibition in 
Philadelphia was read. 

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, it was 

Resolved, That the annual report of the Secretary be accepted, and be 
transmitted to Congress, as usual. 
On motion of Mr. Sargent, it was 

Resolved, That the salary of the chief clerk of the Institution be twen- 
ty-five hundred dollars per annum, commencing with the present year. 
On motion of Mr. Clymer, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to procure a carriage for 
the use of the Institution, for a sum not to exceed four hundred dollars. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The executive conanittcc of the Board of Regents respectfully submit 
tie follovring report iu relation to the funds of the Institution, the 
appropriations by Congress for the support of the National Museum, 
tie receipts and expenditures for both of these departments for the 
year 1875, and the estimates for the year 1S7G: 

FINANCES. 

^aiement of the condition of the fiinds at the hcginning of the year 187C. 

!Ihe amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of Eugland, deposited iu the Treasury of the 
United States in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 184G 6515, 1C9 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1SG5, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States, iu accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1807 20, 210 C3 

Total bequest of Smithsou 541, 379 63 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1807, 
derived from savings of income and increase in value of 

investments 108, 020 37 

Amount received as the bequest of Jaaies Hamilton, of 

Carlisle, Pa., February 21, 1874 1 , 000 00 

Total i)ermanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, beariug interest at C i)er cent., payable 
semi-anuually in gold 051 , 000 00 

In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund 
from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds and certificates, 
viz: consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates, 
$29,375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13 ; total, 888,125.20, 
now valued at 42, 000 00 

Cash balance in the United States Treasury at the begin- 
ning of the year 1S7G, for current expenses 20, ooo 82 

Amount due from First National Bank, $2,050.22, (value 
unknown) 

Total Smithson funds 20th January, 1870 713, r>55 82 



104 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures during 1875: 

RECEIPTS. 

Interest on $650,000 from the United States, 6 per cent., 

gold $39, 000 00 

Premium on above June 30, 1875, at llGJg-, $3,107.81; and 

January 1, 1876, at 112f|, $2,474.07, (less commission) . . 5, 581 8S 

Interest on Virginia bonds, coupons sold June 14 and De- 
cember 31, 1875 4,750 IL 

Dividend from First National Bank, 10 per cent., May 5, 
1875, $822.48; and 15 per cent., December 27, 1875, 
$1,233.73. 2,050 23 

Amount 51, 388 2( 

EXPENDITURES. 

Total expenditure from the Smithson income in 1875 4G, 809 9S 



Balance unexpended of the annual income, which is in- 
cluded in the cash balance in the Treasury, ($20,555.82) . . 4, 578 22 

HAMILTON BEQUEST. 

By the will of the late James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., the sum 
of one thousand dollars was left to the Institution, the interest ot 
which was to be expended biennially for the advance of knowledge. 
This bequest was received on the 24th of February, 1874, from the ex- 
ecutors of Mr. Hamilton, and to secure its safe investment the money 
was immediately deposited by Professor Henry in the Treasury of the 
United States, (see Smithsonian Eeport for 1873, page 159,) on the same 
terms as the original bequest of Smithson, in accordance with the act 
of Congress of February 8, 1867, which authorizes the increase of the 
permanent fund to a sum not exceeding one million dollars. 

The following is a statement of the interest received on the Hamilton 
bequest, which will be appropriated in accordance with the terms of the 
will: 

Interest on $1,000 from February 24, 1874, to December 31, 

1874 $50 88 

Interest from January 1, 1875, to December 31, 1875, 

per cent, in coin $60 00 

Premium at 112i|, less commission 7 01 

07 61 

• 118 49 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



105 



YIRGIMA BONDS. 

Previous to the year 18G7, the saviugs from the income of the Insti- 
tution were invested in State stocks, as shown in the following table : 





Amouut. 


Eate. 


Cost Jan., 

1857. 


Sol.l Feb., 
1867. 


Gain. 


Loss. 




.?75, Ono 00 

15, 000 00 

500 00 

100 00 


84 
94 
100 
100 


$03, 000 00 

11, 107 50 

500 00 

100 00 


$G8, 906 25 

.9, 586 78 

358 71 

100 00 


$'), 900 25 






$1, 580 72 




141 29 
















90, COO 00 




74, 767 50 


78, 951 74 


5, 906 25 


1,722 01 












4, 184 24 






53, 500 00 


93 


49, 832 00 















In accordance with the authority given in the act of Congress of 
February 8, 18G7, to increase the Smithson fund in the United States 
Treasury, the regents disposed of all the State stocks held by the Insti- 
tution as shown above, with the exception of the Virginia bonds, which 
were at the time so low that it was thought advisable to retain them, 
with the expectation that they would enhance in value, which expecta- 
tion has been realized. The following table, however, shows that the 
value of these bonds has fluctuated : 

, 35, 500 



1872 
1873 
1874 



37, 000 

33,000 

1875 35, 000 

187G 42,000 



1SG7 831,505 

1SG8 30, 000 

18G0 40, 018 

1870 42, 200 

1871 48,000 

Under the provisions of an act of the legislature of Virginia, of 30th 
March, 1871, the accumulated interest on these bonds was funded by 
the State ; that is, the interest was added to the principal, and for two- 
thirds of the increase new bonds were issued, and certificates of indebt- 
edness were given for the remaining one-third. 

These funds are, therefore, of two classes, one known as " consolidated 
bonds," due from the State of Virginia, and the other as " deferred cer- 
tificates," the payment of which is reserved until an adjustment is made 
between the States of Virginia and West Virginia as to the settlement 
of the State debt prior to tlieir separation. 

The income which the Institution has received from this source is en- 
tirely from tlie sale of the coupons of the consolidated bonds. 

The bonds and certificates now belonging to the Institution arc as 
follows : 

Consolidated hands. 

58 bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578 inclusive, for $1,000 each. . . 858, 000 00 

1 bond, Xo. 1380, for $500 500 00 

2 bonds, Xo-s. 4101 and 4102, for $100 each 200 00 



(These bonds are deposited in the 
States.) 






easurv of the United 



58, 700 00 



106 KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Deferred certificates. 

No. 4543, dated July 1, 1871 820, 375 07 

No. 2960 50 13 

(These certificates are in charge of Messrs. Kiggs »& Co.) 

Total par value of Virginia securities 88, 125 20 

The State of Virginia has made only partial provision to pay the in- 
terest on its debt, but, as the coupons of the consolidated bonds are 
receivable for taxes, they have a commercial value, and were sold, by 
direction of the Institution, during the year by Messrs. Eiggs «& Co., as 
follows : 

Coupons on $58,700, due July 1, 1874, and January 1, 1875 ; sold June 
14, 1875 : 

$3,000, at 80i , $2, 085 00 

510, at 80f 457 73 

3,142 73 
Less ^ per cent, commission 17 55 

3,125 18 



12, at 80 J, less commission 10 08 



3,522 



135 86 



Coupons on $58,700, due July 1, 1875; sold 31st Decem- 
ber, 1875 : 

$1,761, at 84| $1, 488 04 

Less I per cent, commission 8 80 

1, 479 24 

In addition to the above, the Institution had in its posses- 
sion coupons for one-third the interest due on the 1st ot 
January and 1st of July, 1872, amounting to $1,174, the 
remaining two-thirds ($2,348) having been collected by 
Kiggs & Co. and sold for the Institution, according to their 
statement of November 0, 1872. (See Smithsonian Eeport 
for 1872, page 81.) This amount, $1,174, above referred to, 
was sold by Eiggs «& Co. on the 14th June, 1875, with the 
following result : 

$1,174, at 12 $140 88 

Less commission 5 87 

135 01 

Total amount realized from sale of Virginia coupons in 

1875 4,750 11 

There still remain unsold the coupons on the $58,700 bonds due 1st 

January, 1876. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 107 

FIEST NATIONAL BxiNK DEPOSIT. 

At tbe time of the suspension of the First National Bank, of Wash- 
ington, (19th September, 1873,) in which the current funds had been 
deposited by direction of the board, there were 88,221.87 to the credit 
of the Institution. The following dividends have been received on this 
deposit : 

1. 11 Nov., 1873, 30 per cent $2, 407 40 

2. 7 April, 1874, 20 per cent 1, 044 97 

3. 5 May, 1875, 10 per cent 822 48 

4. 27 Dec, 1875, 15 per cent 1, 233 73 

75 0,108 04 

Leaving a balance still due of 2, 050 23 



8,224 87 

STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES IN DETAIL FROM THE 
SMITHSON INCOME, 1875. 

Building. 

Repairs and improvements $1, 802 94 

Furniture and fixtures 412 17 

$2, 215 11 

General expenses. 

Meetings of the board $227 25 

Lighting the building 792 25 

Heating the building 953 30 

Postage 300 25 

Stationery 413 50 

Incidentals, i(;e, brushes, insurance, soap, tele- 
grams, &G 830 08 

Salaries and clerk -hire 13, 101 50 

Purchase of books and i)eriodicals 203 37 

10,953 50 

Publications^ researches, d'c. 

Smithsonian Contributions 12, 518 31 

Miscellaneous collections 288 45 

Annual report, (illustrations and translations) 1, 453 20 

Meteorology and researches 1, 432 72 

Api)aratus , 235 00 

Laboratory 41 72 

Lectures 400 00 

10,370 06 



108 EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Exclianges. 

Literary and scientific international exclianges C, 748 80 

Museum. 

Expenditures in addition to the Government ap- 
propriation 1, 908 45 

Advanced for construction of laboratory of natural 

history ! 2, Gl 4 00 

4,522 45 



Total expenditure from the Smithsonian income in 1875 . . 40, 809 98 

The Institution, as in former years, has made temporary advances for 
the payment of freight on Government collections, &c., the repayments 
of which, together with the amount received from sales of the publica- 
tions of the Institution, have been deducted from the several items of 
the foregoing expenditure, as follows: 

Repayments. 

From exchanges, repayments for freight, &c 81, 007 01 

From postage, repayments 31 23 

From researches, repayments 98 37 

From Smithsonian Contributions, sales 181 09 

From miscellaneous collections, sales 048 43 

From reports, sales 7 50 

From incidentals, sales of old material 16 12 

From cost of books, repayment 7 75 

From museum, repayment of advances 2, G7G 05 

4, 703 55 

Estimates. 

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations of the 
Smithson fund for the j-ear 1870: 

Estimated receipts. 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 30th 

June, 1870, in gold $19, 500 

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 31st 

December, 1876, in gold 19,500 

Interest on the Hamilton fund 60 

Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent 3, 906 

Interest on Virginia bonds 2, 500 

$45, 466 



KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 109 

Provisional a])j)ro]}ria lions. 



For buildiug 

For general expenses 

For publications and researches . 

For exchanges 

For books and apparatus 

For contingencies 



$2, 


.000 


3-i, 


000 


20, 


000 


'^5 


ouo 


1, 


000 


1, 


4GG 



$15, 4G0 



Is'ATIONAL MUSEUM. 



The iJSrational Museum still continues to be in charge of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, Congress making an appropriation auuuall}" of $20,000 
for the care and preservation of the collections. 

The number of specimens is, however, every year increasing from the 
public surveys and explorations, and the sum appropriated by Congress 
has never been sufficient to meet the demand for their proper care and 
exhibition. During the past year it has been found necessary to erect 
an additional building for the use of the Museum taxidermists and pho- 
tographer, toward the expense of which $2,014 have been advanced 
from the Smithson income. In addition to this, $1,908.45 were also 
required to meet the current expenses of the Museum, making a total 
of $4,522.45 expended during the present year from the Smithson income 
beyond the appropriation hj Congress for the Museum. 

The appropriation made by Congress for fitting up the halls has been 
expended in the construction of additional walnut table-cases with glass 
tops and sides, for the exhibitiou of ethnological specimens. 

At the session of the Board of Eegeuts, January 23, 1875, a resolution 
was adoiHed to request Congress to make an appropriation of $2,500 to 
increase the heating capacity of the apparatus used to warm the rooms 
occupied by the Government collections. 

The subject "was presented to the appropriate committees of Congress 
and the desired appropriation was granted without dissent. After esti- 
mates had been procured, a contract was made with the firm of Baker, 
Smith & Co., of JNew York, to substitute larger boilers and pipes for 
those then in use, and the work has been satisfactorily accomplished for 
the amount of the approi)riation. 

The following is a tabular statement of the condition of the Museum 
funds : 

Balance unexpended of appropriation for i^reservation of 
the Government collections, for the fiscal year ending 30th 
June, 1875. (Statutes for 1874, p. 210) $7, 988 02 

Expenditure from January 1, 1875, to July 1, 1875. (Museum 

Journal A, p. 130) ' 7, 988 G2 



110 KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Appropriation for the fiscal year ending 30tli June, 1870. 
(Digest of Appropriations, 187G, p. 105.) 

For preservation of collections $20, 000 00 

For fitting up new halls 10, 000 00 

For completing heating apparatus 2, 500 00 ■ 

632, 500 00 

Expenditure from July 1, 1875, to December 31, 1875. (Mu- 

Reum Journal A, p. 1G3) 22, 881 32 

Balance unexpended $9, G18 G8 

Kequired for the six months ending 30th June, 187G. 

The estimates submitted by the Institution to Congress for appropri- 
ations for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1877, were as follows: 
For preservation of the collections of the surveying and ex- 
ploring expeditions of the Government $25, 000 00 

For fitting up apartments for mounting and photographing 
specimens ^, 000 00 

30, 000 00 

This sum is $5,000 less than the amount asked for the previous year. 

All the payments on account of the ]!Tational Museum have been 
made, during the past year, directly by the disbursing-ofificer of the 
Department of the Interior on the presentation of vouchers approved 
by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

SUMMARY. 

The Executive Committee have examined five hundred and ninety- 
eight vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income during 
the year 1875, and three hundred and forty-six similar vouchers for 
payments made from the Congressional appropriations for the National 
Museum, making a total number of nine hundred and forty -four vouchers. 

All of the vouchers have the approval of the Secretary of the Institu- 
tion, and a certificate setting forth that the materials and property and 
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur- 
poses specified. 

As authorized by a resolution of the Board of Regents, 2Gth May, 
1874, the committee have also examined the account-books of the Na- 
tional Museum and find the balance of $9,G18.G8 to the credit of the 
appropriation for the "preservation of the collections" remaining on 
the 1st of January, 1876, to correspond with the certificate of the dis- 
bursiug-clcrk of the Department of the Interior. 

The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, checkbook, and ledger 
have also been examined and found to be correct, showing a balance in 



KErORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Ill 

tlie cliar-e of the Treasurer of tlic Uuitcd States lOtli January, 187G, of 
$20,555.82. 
Kespectfully submitted. 

PETER TAEKER, 
JOHN MACLEAN, 
GEO. BANCROFT, 

Executive Committee. 
Washington, January 24, 187G. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1S75. 



The object of this apiiendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution hy 
reports of lectures and extracts from correspoudence, as well as to furnish information 
of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and other persons 
interested in the promotion of knowledge. 

S. Mis. 115 -^ 113 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 



15 Y ARAGO. 



[Translated for the Saiithsouiau Institution.] 

Gentlemen : When amber is rubbed it immediately attracts liglit 
bodies, such as the down of feathers, fragments of straw, and sawdust. 
Theophrastus, the Greek, and Pliny, the Roman, had both noticed this 
property, but attaching apparently no importance to it, treated it sim- 
ply as an accident of form and color. They little suspected they were 
touching the first link of a long chain of discoveries, and did not appre- 
ciate the value of an observation which, at a later date, was to furnish 
assured means of disarming the thunder-cloud and conducting the 
electricity concealed in its bosom to the earth without danger and 
sometimes even without explosion. 

From electron, the Greek for amber, is derived " electricity," a term ap- 
plied originally to the attractive property of rubbed bodies, but now to 
the cause of a great variety of effects and to all the details of a brilliant 
science. 

Electricity long remained in the hands of physicists, the almost exclu- 
sive result of complicated combinations, which nature rarely presented. 
The man of genius whose works we are about to analyze was the first to 
transcend these narrow limits. With the aid of microscopic apparatus, 
he found electricity everywhere, in combustion, in evaporation, and in 
the simple contact of dissimilar bodies. He therefore assigned to this 
powerful agent a wide-extended domain, which, in terrestrial phenomena, 
scarcely gives precedence to that of gravity. 

The development disclosing the connection of these important discov- 
<'ries appears to me deserving of being traced with some degree of ex- 
tension. It seems to me also that, since definite knowledge is so much 
desired, academic eulogies may become introductory chapters of a gen- 
eral history of the sciences. The following is an essay, on my part, 
which I IVaiikiy submit to the rigid and enlightened criticism of the 
])ublic. 

CIRTH OF VOLTA — HIS YOUTH — IIIS FIRST WORKS — LEYDEN JAR — 
PERPETUAL ELECTROPHORUS — IMPROVEMENTS IN THE ELECTRI- 
CAL MACHINE — CONDENSING ELECTROMETER— ELECTRIC PISTOL — 
PERPETUAL LAMP — EUDIOMETER. 

Alexander Volta, one of the eight foreign members of the Academy 
of Science, and son of Philip Volta and Madeleine, de Conti Inzaghi, 
was born at Como, on the 18th of February, 1745. His early education 

115 



IIG EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

was carried on at the public school of his native place under his lather's 
watchful care. Great aptitude, steady application, and a well-regulated 
mind soon placed him at the head of his fellow-students. At eighteen, 
he was already in correspondence with Xollet on the most recondite 
questions of physics. At nineteen, he composed a Latin poem never given 
to the public, in which he described the phenomena discovered by the most 
celebrated experimentalists of the time. It has been said that at this 
period, Volta's vocation was undetermined, but I beg to differ from this 
assertion, for a young man would scarcely hesitate about exchanging 
the poetic art for a retort, if he had the singular taste to select chemistry 
as the subject of his literary compositions; and, in fact, with the excep- 
tion of several of his poems, including that describing Saussure's ascent 
of Mont Blanc, we shall find the long career of this distinguished phy- 
sicist devoted solely to the study of nature. 

Volta, at the age of twenty-four, had the temerity to assad, in his 
first essay, the delicate question of the Leyden jar. This apparatus had 
been invented in 174G. The singularity of its effects would have amply 
sufQced to justify the curiosity it excited throughout Europe; but this 
curiosity was also due, in a great measure, to Musschenbroeck's extrav- 
agant exaggeration of the unaccountable terror he experienced on re- 
ceiving a very feeble discharge, in regard to which, the physicist em- 
phatically exclaimed, he would not again expose himself for the proudest 
kingdom of the universe. The numerous theories of the jar which were 
successively offered are scarcely worthy of being enumerated. Frank- 
lin has the honor of having solved this important problem, and, it must 
be acknowledged, Volta has added little to the labors of the illustrious 
American physicist. 

The second essay of the physicist of Como appeared in 1771. In this, 
observation is the only guide of the author in the researches undertaken 
to determine the nature of the electricity of bodies covered with differ- 
ent coatings; to ascertain the circumstances of temperature, color, and 
elasticity causing the phenomena to vary; to study the electricity pro- 
duced by rubbing, percussion, or pressure ; or finally, the properties 
of a new kind of electrical machine in which the movable plate and 
the insulating supports were of dried wood. 

On this side of the Alps, the first two essays of Volta were scarcely 
read at all. In Italy, on the contrary, they produced a lively sensation. 
Public authority, which is usually unfortunately partial, and which in 
its blind love of absolute power often even refuses the modest request 
of reference to competent judges, hastened itself to encourage the 
youthful experimentalist. He was nominated by it as regent of the 
IJoyal School of Como, and soon after professor of physics. 

The missionaries to Pekiii in 1755 communicated to the savants of 
Europe an important fact made known to them by accident, resi)ecting 
electricity by induction, which, in certain bodies, is developed or dissi- 
pated as these bodies are separated or brought into immediate contact. 



EULOGY OX ALEXANDER YOLTA. 117 

This fact gave rise to the iiiterestin^i;- lesearches of .Spinas, Wilcke, 
Cigna, aud Beccaria. Yolta also made it the subject of special study and 
found in it the germ of the perpetual eleetrophorus, a wonderful instru- 
ment, Avhich, however small, affords an inexhaustible supply of elec- 
tricity, and which, without the necessity of resorting to friction of any 
kind, aud whatever may be the state of the atmosphere, enables the 
physicist to command incessant charges of undiminished power. 

The essay on the electrophorus was succeeded in 1778 by another 
very important production. It was known even at this time that a 
given body, hollow or solid, has the same electrical capacity, provided 
the surface remains the same. An observation by Lemonnier pointed 
out, moreover, that, besides equality of surface, the shape of the body 
is not without its influence. Yolta was the first, however, to estab- 
lish this principle on a solid basis. His experiments proved that of two 
cylinders having the same surface, the longer receives the larger charge, 
so that wherever the situation i^ermits, it is an immense ad\'antage to 
substitute for the large conductors of ordinary machines a system of 
very small cylinders, the total capacity of which is, however, not 
larger than the other. By combining, for example, sixteen rows of 
slender silver-plated rods, 1,000 feet in length each, a battery would be 
formed, according to Yolta, capable of killing the largest animal. 

Not one of the discoveries of the professor of Como was the result of 
accident. All the instruments with which he enriched science, before 
being formed by the mechanic, were thoroughly planned in his mind. 
There was no chance, for instance, in the changes made by Yolta in the 
electrophorus in order to transform it into a condenser, a genuine micro- 
scope of a new kind which detects the presence of electricity where 
every other means would fail. 

In 177G and 1777, Yolta devoted himself for some months to a subject 
of pure chemistry, in which, however, electricity, his favorite science, 
was involved in the most fortunate combinations. 

At this epoch, chemists having as yet only discovered natural inflam- 
mable gas in coal mines and mineral salts, regarded it as belonging 
exclusively to mineral regions. Yolta, whose attention had been di- 
rected to this subject by an accidental observation of P. Campi, showed 
they were mistaken, lie proved that the putrefaction of both aninuil 
and vegetable matter is always accompanied by the production of in- 
flammable gas; that if stagnant water and the slime of a marsh be 
stirred up, this gas will escape through the liquid, presenting the ap- 
pearance of ordinary ebullition. Thus, the inflammable gas of marshes, 
which for several years so much occupied the attention of chemists, is, 
as to its origin, a discovery of Yolta. 

This discovery might lead to the belief that certain natural phenom- 
ena, such, for example, as burning marshes and burning sjirings, arose 
from a similar cause ; but Yolta knew too well how nature sports with 
cur feeble understandings to be satisfled with mere analogy. In 1780 



118 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLT A. 

he" hastened to visit the celebrated marshes of Fietra Mala and Velleja. 
He thoroughly examined all he could find in difterent travels in similar 
localities, and then succeeded in establishing, with comi)lete proof, and 
contrary to received opinion, the fact that these phenomena did not 
depend upon the presence of petroleum, naphtha, or bitumen ; he dem- 
onstrated, moreover, that it was caused alone by the disengagement 
of inflammable gas. But has Volta proved, with the same accuracy, 
that this gas has, in all places, its origin in the maceration of animal 
or vegetable matter? I think we may be allowed to question this. 
The electric spark had been, at an early date, used to inflame certain 
liquids^ certain vapors, and different gases, such as alcohol, the smoke 
of a candle just extinguished, and hydrogen gas; but all these experi- 
ments were made in the open air. Yolta was the lirst to make them in 
closed vessels, (1777.) He is therefore the originator of the apparatus 
used by Cavendish in 1781 for combining the separated elements of 
water by synthesis, so as to form anew the decomposed body from its 
two constituent gaseous elements. 

Our distinguished associate possessed in the highest degree two 
qualities rarely found united, a creative genius and great iiowers of 
application. He never abandoned a subject without examining it in all 
its phases, without describing, or at least pointing out, the various 
aids which science, ingenuity, and even mere curiosity might bring to 
bear upon it. Thus several experiments on the inflammable nature of 
the air of marshes gave rise to the electrical gun and pistol, upon which 
it would be superfluous to dwell here, as they have passed from the 
hands of jihysicists into those of the showman, and, in public places, 
are daily exhibited to the admiring gaze of gaping idlers. Then the 
'perpetual hydrogen-gas lamp, so generally known in Germany, which, 
by the most ingenious application of the electrophorus, lights itself when 
needed, and, finally, the eudiometer, the valuable instrument of analysis, 
which has been so useful to chemists. 

The discovery of the composition of atmospheric air has given rise to 
this momentous question in natural philosophy: Does the proportion, 
in which the two component parts of air are found united, vary with the 
successive revolutions of ages, and according to locality and the changes 
of seasons "? 

When one reflects that all numkind, all the beasts of the earth and 
fowls of the air are constantly consuming, in the act of breathing, one 
of these two components, oxygen gas ; that this same gas is the indis- 
pensable food of combustion in our homes, in workshops and vast fac- 
tories; that a candle or lamp is not lighted without absorbing it; that, 
finally oxygen plays the chief part in the phenomena of vegetation, it 
may readily be imagined that in the long run the atmosphere varies 
sensibly in its composition ; that at some future time it will become unfit 
for respiration; that then all the animal creation will be extinguished, not 
in consequence of one of those physical revolutions of which geologists 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 119 

have discovered so many vestiges, aud which, iiotvvithstiuidiug their 
vast extent, may leave some chance of safety to a few individuals advan- 
tageously situated, but from an all-pervading and inevitable cause, in 
which case the frozen zones of the poles, the burning regions of the 
equator, the vastness of the ocean, and the snowy summits of the Cor- 
dilleras and Himalayas would be equally powerless to save. To study 
all that can be discovered of this great phenomenon up to the present 
time, to collect all the exact data with which the centuries to come will 
be teeming-, is the task physicists are hastening to accomplish, especially 
since the eudiometer with the electric spark has suiiplied them with 
the means of so doing. To answer some of the objectious to which the 
tirst trials of this instrument gave rise, Humboldt and Gay-Lussac sub- 
mitted it to the most scrupulous examination. Wheu such judges 
declare that no known eudiometer approaches in accuracy that of Volta, 
doubt as to its value can no longer exist. 

DILATATION OF THE AIR. 

As I have abandoned the chronological order, before taking up the 
two most important works of our venerable fellow-member, before analyz- 
ing his researches on atmospheric electricity and describing his dis- 
covery of the pile, I will mention in a few words the experiments pub- 
lished by him in 1793 on the subject of the dilatation of air. 

This important question had already attracted the attention of a great 
number of skillful physicists, who could uot agree either on the total in- 
crease of volume that air undergoes between the fixed temperatures of 
melting ice and ebullition, or the rate of the expansions of the interme- 
diate temperatures. Volta discovered the cause of these discordances. 
He showed that, by operating in a vessel containing humidity, theincrease 
of expansion would be found ; that if there be in the apparatus no more 
humidity than the film ordinarily covering the sides of the glass, the ap- 
parent expansion of the air will be increasing in the lower part of the ther- 
mometric scale and decreasing in the upper part. He finally proved, 
by delicate measurements, that atmospheric air, if confined in a per- 
fectly dry vessel, expands in proportion to its temperature, when this 
latter is measured by a mercurial thermometer divided into equal parts. 
Xow, as D'Huc's and Crawford's works seemed to establish the fact that 
a similar thermometer gives the correct measurement of the amount of 
lieat, Volta felt himself authorized to announce, in the new terms, 
v.hose iniportaricc all will appreciate, the very simple law resulting from 
his experiments, that the elasticity of a given volume of atmospheric air 
is in proportion to its heat. 

When air, at a low temperature, and constantly containing the same 
amount of humidity, was heated, its elastic force increased as did that 
of dry air. Volta concluded from this that the vapor of water and air 
expand precisely in the same nuinner. Every one now knows that this 
result is accurate; but the experiment of the jdiysicist of Como did leave 



^20 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

some doubts, since, at the ordinary temperature, vapor mingles with 
the atmospheric air in very small proportions. Volta regarded the work 
I have just analyzed as a mere rough draught. 

Numerous other researches of the same kind to which he had applied 
himself were to form part of a treatise which has never seen the light. 
Besides, on this point science now seems complete, thanks to Gay-Lus- 
sac and Dalton. The experiments of these ingenious physicists, made 
at a time when Volta's treatise, though published, was known neither 
in France nor in England, included all the gases, whether permanent or 
ephemeral, in the law of the Italian scientist. They lead, moreover, in 
every case, to the same co-efficient of expansion. 

ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. 

I will not resume the subject of Volta's researches on atmospheric 
electricity until after having given a hasty sketch of the analogous ex- 
periments preceding them. In order to judge judiciously of a traveler's 
course, it is often necessary to view it at the same time from the start- 
ing and finishing points. 

Dr. ^Yall, who wrote in 1708,' should be here named as the first, for in 
one of his treatises is found this ingenious remark : " The light and 
crackling noise of electrified bodies seems, tip to a certain point, to repre- 
sent thunder and lightning." Stephen Grey published in 1735 a similar 
remark. " It is probable," said this distinguished physicist, " that in time 
some means of concentrating this electrical fire in larger quantities, will 
be discovered, and also of increasing the power of an agent, which, if it 
be allowable to compare small things with great, according to several 
of my experiments, seems to have the nature of thunder and lightning." 

The majority of physicists saw merely comparisons in these passages. 
They did not suppose that in finding a resemblance between the effects 
of electricity and those of thunder, Wall and Grey claimed to infer 
from it an identity of causes. This doubt, however, would not be appli- 
cable to the sketch introduced by Nollet, in 174G, in his lectures on ex- 
perimental physics. In that, for example, according to the author, a 
storm-cloud, far above the earth, is nothing more than an electrified 
body placed above a body which is not. Thunder in the hands of nature 
is electricity in the hands of physicists. Several striking resemblances are 
pointed out, and, in a word, nothing is wanting to complete this inge- 
nious theory, except the only thing necessary to give it a definite place 
in science, the sanction of direct experiment. 

Franklin's first views of the analogy between electricity and thunder 
were, like those entertained by Nollet, mere conjectures; the whole dif- 
ference between the two physicists being then reduced to a plan for an 
experiment not mentioned by Nollet, and which seemed to promise de- 
finitive proofs for or against the hypothesis. The object of this exper- 
iment was to prove whether, during a storm, a metallic rod, insulated 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 121 

aud terminating in a point, would give out sparks similar to those pro- 
ceeding from the conductor of an ordinary electrical macliine. 

Without wishing to detract from Franklin's glory, I must remark that 
the projected experiment was quite unnecessary.* The soldiers of the 
Fifth Eomau Legion had j)reviously made it, during the African war — 
the day when, as related by Ctesar, the iron heads of their lances seemed 
on fire during a storm. The same was also noticed by numerous navi- 
gators, to whom Castor aud Pollux appeared, either at the metallic 
points of the mast-head and yard-arms or other prominent parts of their 
vessels. Finally, in certain countries, in Frioul, for instance, at the 
Chateau de Duino, the sentry was strictly carrying out what Franklin 
would have desired, when, in conformity with his duty and to decide 
when it would be necessary, by ringing a bell, to warn the peasants of 
the approach of a storm, he examined with his halbertthe iron head of a 
spear planted vertically on the rampart, to ascertain whether sparks had 
been given out. Besides, whether some of these circumstances were ig- 
nored, or whether they were not considered sufficiently demonstrative, 
direct experiments seemed requisite, aud it is to Dalibard, our fellow- 
countryman, that science is indebted for this. On the 10th of May, 1752, 
during a storm, a long, pointed metallic rod, placed by him in a garden of 
Marly-la-Yille, gave out small sparks, like the conductor of an ordinary 
electrical machine in contact with a metallic wire. It was not until a 
month later that Franklin, in the United States, by means of a kite, 
realized the same experiment. Lightning-rods were the immediate 
result of this, aud the distinguished American physicist hastened to 
announce it to the world. 

That portion of the public which, in matters of science, is reduced to 
judge from hearsay, rarely decides by halves. It admits or rejects, if I 
may be allowed the term, impetuously. Lightning-rods, for example, 
became the object of a genuine enthusiasm, whose flights it would be 
curious to follow in the writings of the day. Here you fiud travelers 
who, in the open fields, suppose themselves able, sword in hand pointed 
toward the clouds, to exorcise the lightning, in the posture of Ajax 
threatening the gods; there, churchmen, whose garb forbids the sword, 
bitterly deploring being denied this talisman of safety; some, seri- 
ously proposing, as an infallible preservative, to place themselves 
under a rain-spout at the beginning of the storm, considering wet 
clothing good conductors of electricity; others invented certain head- 
gear, from which were suspended long metallic chains, which with great 
care must be kept constantly trailing on the damp earth. Some physic- 
ists, it must be acknowledged, did not share this infatuation. They 

"Wo do not agree with Arago in this remark. The phenomena he mentions were 
the spontaneous productions of nature, and were not referred to atmospheric electri- 
city. To fully establisli the identity of electricity aud lightning required such an 
experiment as that of Franklin's, in which electricity was actually drawn from the 
cloud in accordance with previouslv-established principles. 

J. n. 



122 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

aclniitted the itieiitity of ligbtning and electricity, so conclusively proved 
by the experiment of Franklin and of Marly-la- Ville ; but the small 
number of sparks proceeding from the rod, and their minuteness, created 
doubts as to the possibility of exhausting the immense amount of ful- 
minating matter with which a storm-cloud must be charged. The 
frightful experiments made by Romas de Nerac did not overcome their 
opi)osit!on, because this experimentalist used a kite with a metallic 
cord, which rose several hundred feet, to draw down the thunder from 
the very regions of the clouds. Soon, however, the deplorable death ot 
Kichman, August G, 1753, occasioned by a simple discharge from an 
ordinary insulated lightning-rod which this distinguished i^hysicist liad 
placed on his house in Saint Petersburg, threw new light upon the sub- 
ject. The learned saw in this tragic death an explanation of the passage 
in which Pliny, the naturalist, relates that TuUus Ilostilius was struck 
by lightning for not having been sufficiently careful in the performance 
of certain ceremonies by means of which Numa, his predecessor, forced 
the lightning to descend from the skies. On the other side, and this 
was of more importance, physicists, without prejudice, found in this 
same event a fact which had before been wanting, namely, that under 
certain circumstances a metallic rod, slightly elevated, draws down from a 
storm-cloud not only inappreciable sparks, but genuine torrents of 
electricity. Accordingly, from this time discussions relating to the 
efficacy of lightning-rods are without interest, not even excepting the 
animated debate as to whether lightning-rods should terminate in a 
point or ball, which for some time divided the English scientists. iSTo one 
is ignorant now that George III was the promoter of this i)olemic — that 
he was in favor of rods terminating in balls, because Franklin, then his 
successful antagonist in political questions of vast importance, required 
they should terminate in points ; but this discussion, taking all things 
into consideration, belongs rather, though a matter of much moment, to 
the history of the American Revolution than to that of science. 

The results of the experiment of Marly were scarcely known, when 
Lemonnier, of this academy, placed in his garden at Saint-Germain-en- 
Lage a long vertical metallic rod,' insulated by some newly invented 
precautions, and from this time clusters of electrical sparks (July and 
September, 1752) were produced, not only when the thunder rumbled, not 
only when the sky was overcast with threatening clouds, but even when 
it was perfectly' serene. A beautiful discovery was thus the result of 
apparently the most insigniticant niodiflcation of Dalibard's original 
apparatus. 

Lemonnier discovered without much difficulty that this serene-day 
lightning, whose existence he had just revealed, was subject every 
twenty-four hours to regular variations of intensity. Beccaria de- 
lineated the laws of this diurnal periodicity by means of excellent ob- 
servations. He, moreover, established the important fact that at all 
seasons, at all heights, whatever the direction of the wind, the electricity 
of a serene sky is invariably positive. 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. IZd 

By thus following:, iu the order of their dates, the developmeuts of 
atmospheric electricity, I gradually reach the works with which Yolta 
has euriched this important branch of meteorology. The object of these 
"works was by turns the improvement of the methods of observation 
and the minute examination of the diliereut circumstances under which 
the electricity was developed, which pervaded all the regions of the air. 

When a new branch of science has been discovered the experimental- 
ists devote themselves almost exclusively to the discovery of new phe- 
nomena, reserving their numerical valuation for later times. In elec- 
tricity, for example, several physicists made themselves in this way a 
well-merited reputation. The Leyden jar, we may add, was conspicuous 
in all the laboratories of Europe, but no one had yet invented a veritable 
electrometer. The first instrument of this kind was made iu 1749, and 
was the work of Darcy and Le Koy, two members of this academy. 
Its want of sensibility in small charges prevented its being adopted. 

The electrometer suggested by Xollet (1752) appeared at first sight 
simpler, more convenient, and especially as having infinitely greater sen- 
sibility. It was to consist of two wires, which after being electrified 
would open, like the two branches of a compass, from the eflect of 
repulsion. The measure sought would thus be reduced to the observa 
tion of an angle. 

Cavallo realized what Xollet had only suggested, (17S0.) Ilis wires 
were of metal, and had at their extremities small balls of the pith of 
elder. Yolta finally abolished the elder and substituted dry straws 
at the end of the wires. This change might seem unimportant if it 
were not explained that the new electrometer alone possessed the valu- 
able and unexpected i)roperty of giving, betw^een and 30^, the angu- 
lar motions of the two straws exactly proportional to the electrical 
charges. 

Volta's letter to Lichtenberg, dated 178G, iu which he established by 
numerous experiments the pr-operties of the straw electrometer, con- 
tained interesting views, no traces of which are to be found iu more 
recent works. They relate to the means of rendering these instruments 
comparable in the measurement of the strongest charges, and to cer- 
tain combinations of the electrometer and condenser. This letter can- 
not be too highly recommended to young physicists. It will initiate 
them into the very difficult art of investigating ; it will teach them to 
mistrust first impressions and to constantly vary the form. of the appa- 
ratus; if tempted by an impatient temper to abandon the slow but sure 
and beaten track of observation for seductive chimerical ideas, they 
may, perhaps, be arrested on this slippery ground by beholding a man 
of genius undaunted by the most minute details. And, moreover, at a 
time when, save in a IVw honorable cases, the publication of a book is a 
I)uroly business oi)eration, when scientific treatises, especially, modeled 
after the same pattern, do not differ from each other, except perhaps 
by a few sliglit shades iu the comi)ilation, often imleed imperceptible, 



124 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

when each author neglects most scrupulously all the experiments, 
theories, and instruments forgotten or ignored by his immediate prede- 
cessor, it is but a duty, it seems to me, to direct the attention of begin- 
ners to the original sources, and it is from these sources, and these alone, 
important subjects for research can be drawn, and where they will find 
a faithful history of discoveries, where they will learn to distinguish 
clearly the true from the doubtful, and finally to mistrust rash hypotheses 
adopted by compilers without discrimination and with blind confidence. 

When Saussure, profiting by the wonderful power exercised by points 
on the electric fluid, succeeded, in 1785, by the simple addition of a rod 
eight or nine decimeters (about a yard) in length, in increasing the sen- 
sibility of Cavallo's electrometer, and consequently invoking a great num- 
ber of minute experiments, the wires terminating in the elder-pith balls 
of the Neapolitan physicist being replaced by dried straws, this small 
apparatus might be supposed incapable of receiving any additional 
important improvement. Volta, however, in 1787, succeeded in con- 
siderably increasing its power, without at all changing its original 
construction. He had recourse to the strangest of expedients to accom- 
plish this ; he attached to the point of the metallic rod introduced by 
Saussure either a wax candle or simply a lighted match. 

iSTo one could assuredly have foreseen such a result. Experimentalists 
had discovered, at an early date, flame to be an excellent conductor of 
electricity ; but would not that very fact have a tendency to divert the 
thoughts from considering it as a powerful collector? Besides, Volta, 
endowed with a strictly logical mind, did not thoroughly receive this 
strange fact until he could find for it an explanation. He found that 
the fact that a caudle attracts to the point to which it is attached three 
or four times as much electricity as could be collected in any other 
way, is owing to the current of air induced by the flame, and to the 
increased communications established between the metallic point and 
the atmospheric molecules. 

Since flame attracts the electricity of the air much better than pointed 
metallic rods, does it not follow, said Volta, that the best means of 
preventing storms, or rendering them less frightful, would be to light 
enormous fires in the fields, or, still better, on very elevated places. 
After reflecting on the grand effects of the very small flame of the 
candle of the electrometer, is there anything unreasonable in suppos- 
ing that a large flame might, in a few moments, rob immense volumes 
of air and vapor of all their electricity ? 

Volta was anxious to submit this idea to the proof of direct experi- 
ment; but so far his wishes have been unsatisfied. Perhaps some 
encouraging ideas might be obtained with regard to this by comparing 
the meteorological observations of the counties in England, where the 
flames of so many high chimneys and factories convert night into day 
with those of the surrounding agricultural districts. 

The fiery lightning-rods tempted Volta to throw aside the severe 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 125 

gravity iu wbicb he nsually indulged. He tried to euliveu the subject 
at the expense of tbe erudite, who, like tbe famous Dietens, always 
found, but after tbe event, tbe discovery of tbeir contemporaries in 
some ancient author. He begged, then, in this instance, to go back to 
tbe fabulous times of tbe Greeks and Eomans, and directed tbeir 
attention to the sacrifices in the 0])en air, tbe dazzling flames on tbe 
altars, the black columns of smoke which ascended into the air from 
tbe bodies of tbe victims ; finally, to all the circumstances of those 
ceremonies which the ignorant believe were intended to appease the 
wrath of the gods, and to foil Jupiter's fulminating arm. All this 
could be but a mere experiment in physics, alone understood by the 
}>riests, and designed to restore silently to tbe earth the electricity of 
tbe air and clouds. The Greeks and Eomans, during the most brilliant 
periods of their history, sacrificed, it is true, in closed temples; but, 
added Volta, this difliculty is not without its solution, as it may be 
said that Pythagoras, Aristotle, Cicero, Tliny, and Seneca were igno- 
rant fellows, who, even according to simple tradition, did not possess 
the scientific knowledge of their predecessors. No criticism could be 
more cutting ; but, to have any effect, it would be necessary to forget 
that the Zoileans, iu all ages, who ransack musty books for the first 
rudiments, true or false, of great discoveries, are less eager to honor 
the dead than to bring discredit upon tbeir contemporaries. 

Nearly all physicists ascril)e electrical phenomena to two fluids of 
different natures, which, under certain circumstances, accumulate sepa- 
rately on tbe surface of bodies. This hypothesis naturally led to an 
investigation into tbe source from which atmospheric electricity ema- 
nates. The problem was important. A delicate, though very simple, 
experiment led to its solution. 

In this experiment, an insulated vessel from which tbe water could 
evaporate, gave, with the assistance of Volta's condenser, very mani- 
fest indications of negative electricit}'. 

I regret my inability to announce, with any degree of certainty, to 
whom to ascribe this capital experiment. Volta relates in one of his 
treatises that he had been thinking of this since 177S, but various cir- 
cumstances having prevented bis attempting it, it was not until 1780, 
in Paris, in the month of March, in company with several members of 
the Academy- of Science, that he was finally successful. On tbe other 
hand, Lavoisier and Laplace, in the last line of the treatise published 
by them on the same subject, merely remarked : Volta was anxious to 
be present at our experiment and onale himself useful to us. 

llow shall we reconcile these two very contradictory statements f A 
historical note, published by Volta himself, is far from dispelling these 
doubts. This note, attentively examined, does not expressly state who 
originated the idea of the experiment, nor which one of the three physi- 
cists suggested that it might succeed with the aid of the condenser. 
The first attempt, in Paris, by Volta and the two French scientists 



120 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

unitedly, was uusuccessfal, the bygrometrical state of the atmosphere 
not having been favorable. A few days after, at Lavoisier's country- 
house, electrical symptoms became manifest, though no change had 
been made iti the method of observation. Yolta was not present at this 
last trial. 

This circumstance was the origin of all the difiiculties. Some physi- 
cists, as a general rule, without a thorough examination, regard as dis- . 
coverers those who are the first, by experiment, to establish the exist- 
ence of a fact. Others again regard the work of experiment as a second- 
ary matter, reserving their admiration for those who have planned the 
investigation. 

These principles are both too exclusive. Pascal assigned to his 
brother-in-law, Perrier, the duty of ascending the Puy-de-Dome to ob- 
serve the barometer, and yet Pascal's name alone is connected with 
that of Toricelli, when referring to the proofs of the pressure of the air. 
Michell and Cavendish, on the contrary, in the eyes of physicists, share 
with no one the credit of their celebrated experiment on the attraction 
of terrestrial bodies, although it had often occurred to others to attempt 
it; and, in this case, execution was everything. The work of Volta, 
Lavoisier, and Laplace belongs to neither of these two categories. I 
will grant, if desired, that a man of genius alone could conceive the idea 
that electricity assists in the generation of vapor; but to place this idea 
beyond the pale of hypothesis, special means of observation and new 
instruments must be invented. Those used by Lavoisier and Laplace 
were the inventions of Yolta; they were constructed in Paris, under his 
own eyes; and he was present when they were first tested. Multiplied 
proofs of direct co-operation unquestionably connect Yolta's name with 
every theory relating to the electricity of vapor. Who, however, would 
dare afiflrm, in the absence of a positive declaration of this great physi- 
cist to the contrary, that the experiment was not undertaken at the 
suggestion of the French savant ? While there is doubt, would it not 
be natural, on this, as well as on the other side of the Alps, in re- 
ferring to these phenomena, not to separate again the names of Yolta, 
Lavoisier, and Laplace; to cease to see in it, here a question of misun- 
derstood nationality, and there a subject of virulent accusation, scarcely 
excusable, if even no cloud obscured the truth ? 

These reflections will, I hope, put an end to a disgraceful dispute, 
which malicious passions have endeavored to i^erpctuate. They will, at 
all events, prove, by an additional example, how delicate a matter is the 
l)roprietorship of the productions of the mind. When three of the most 
brilliant geniuses of the eighteenth century, in the zenith of their glory, 
could not agree as to what part of the invention belonged to ^ach, in 
an experiment made by all, need we be astonished to see such conflicts 
arise among beginners ? 

In spite of the length of this digression, I must not dismiss the exper- 
iment which suggested it without dwelling upon its great importance, 



I 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 127 

and i)roviDg it to be the basis of a very curious branch of meteorology. 
A few words wdl suffice for this. 

When the insulated metallic vessel in which the water evaporates* 
becomes electric, this water derives, from the bodies it touches, not 
only heat but also electricity, in order, Yolta says, to pass from a liquid 
to an aeriform state. The electric fluid is, then, an integral part of the 
large masses of vapors which are daily forming at the expense of the 
seas, lakes, and rivers. These vapors, as they rise, find in the high 
regions of the atmosphere a degree of cold which condenses them. The 
constituent electric fluid is then liberated and accumulated, and the 
feeble couductibility of the air prevents its returning to the earth, whence 
it came, except in the form of rain, snow, hail, or some violent discharge. 

Thus, on a stormy day, according to this theory, the electricity whose 
dazzling effulgence darts from east to west, from north to south, whose 
deep thunderings echo far and near, and which, hurled to the earth, 
leaves in its course destruction and death, is but the result of the daily 
evaporation of water, the inevitable consequence of a phenomenon de- 
veloped by shades so insensible as to be imperceptible to our senses. 
"When effects are compared to causes, nature, we must acknowledge, 
presents most wonderful contrasts, 

THE VOLTAIC TILE. 

I have now reached one of those rare epochs in which an important 
and unexpected fact, so often the result of some auspicious accident, 
in the hands of genius becomes the source of a scientific revolution. 

A detailed description of the wonderful effects produced by insig- 
nificant causes, would, perhaps, be as interesting in the history of the 
sciences as in that of nations. If some savant should ever undertake to 
sketch it, that branch of physics properly called galvanism would 
occupy one of the first places in it. In fact, it can be proved that the 
immortal discovery of the pile, springs, in a very direct manner, from 
a slight cold with which a lady of Bologna was attacked in 1790, who 
was ordered by her physician a dish of frog-soup. 

Several of these animals, prepared for the purpose by Madame Gal- 
vaui's cook, were lying on a table at the time of an accidental discharge 
of an electrical machine at some distance. The muscles, although not 
tou(;hed by the sparks, evinced, at the moment of the discharge, the 
most decided contractions. The experiment, repeated with all kinds of 
animals, succeeded equally well, whether the electricity were artificial 
or natural, positive or negative. 

This i)heuomenon was very easily explained on the well-known prin- 
cii)lc of induction, the electricity of the discharge disturbing by repul- 
sion at a distance the natural electricity of the frog. Uad it happened 
to some experienced physicist, familiar with the properties of electricity, 



• It is now known that this experiment does not succeed when distilled water is used. 



128 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

it would scarcely have attracted bis attention ; if remarked at all, the 
extent of the observation would have been that the extreme sensibility 
of the frog would render it a very good electroscope. Here was a case, 
however, though a rare one, where ignorance was great gain, for Galvani, 
though a skillful anatomist, knew very little of electricity. The muscu- 
lar movements witnessed by him appeared inexplicable ; a new world 
seemed opening before him. He applied himself to the task of varying 
the experiments in a thousand ways. 

It was in doing this that he discovered an entirely new fact, the fact 
that a frog, even though killed for a long time, manifests very intense 
contractions,without the intervention of any foreign electricity, by merely 
placing a metallic plate, or, better still, two plates of dissimilar metals, 
between a muscle and a nerve. The astonishment of the professor of 
Bologna was then quite justifiable, and that of all Europe with him. 

An experiment, in which the legs, thighs, and trunks of animals dis- 
membered for hours manifested the strongest convulsions, darting about 
and appearing to return to life, could not long remain uninvestigated. 
After analyzing it in all its details, Galvani supposed the effect to be 
produced on the principle of the Leyden jar. According to him, the 
animals were merely reservoirs of electricity; positive electricity having 
its seat in the nerves, and negative in the muscles, the metallic plate 
interposed between these organs being simply the conductor by means ol 
which the discharge is effected. 

These views captivated the public; physiologists seized hold upon 
them ; electricity usurped the place of the nervous fluid then occupying 
so large a space in the explanation of the phenomena of thP principle 
of life, though, by a strange oversight, no one had attempted to ])rove 
its existence. In a word, all flattered themselves that they had found 
the physical agent which conveys external impressions to theseHsorium, 
which makes, among animals, nearly all of the organs subservient to 
their intelligence, and the movements of the arms, legs, and head obe- 
dient to the will. But, alas ! these delusions were not of long duration. 
The whole beautiful romance was dispelled by Volta's critically severe 
experiments. 

This ingenious physicist first created convulsions, not merely as Gal- 
vani did, by interposing two dissimilar metals between a nerve and 
muscle, but by simply bringing them in contact with a muscle. 

From this moment the principle of the Leyden jar was acknowledged 
to have no connection with the phenomenon ; there was no longer any 
possible comparison between them. The negative electricity of the 
muscles and the positive electricity of the nerves were pure hypoth- 
eses, without any solid foundation ; the phenomena seemed to have no 
connection with anything known, but were obscured, by an impenetra- 
ble veil. 

Volta, nevertheless, was not discouraged. He claimed that, in his 
own experiment, electricity was the cause of the convulsions ; that the 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 129 

muscle played but a passive part, and was to be simply regarded as a 
conductor by means of which the discharge "was effected. Electricity, 
Yolta had the independence to conjecture, was the inevitable result of 
the contact of the tirn metals between which the muscle "was i')laced. 
I say the two metals, and not the two plates, since, according to Volta, 
with no difference in the nature of the two metals in contact, Jio elec- 
triciil development could take place. 

The physicists of all Europe, and Volta himself, adopted at the begin, 
ning of galvanism the views of the discoverer. Tbey were unanimous in 
regarding the spasmodic convulsions of the dead animals as one of the 
greatest discoveries of modern times. But, however little one may know 
of the human heart, it is not difficult to divine that a theory, designed 
to connect these curious phenomena with the ordinary laws of electric- 
ity, would not be admitted by Galvani and his followers without extreme 
reluctance. In fact, the Bolognese school defended ever}' foot of the im- 
mense ground attacked, which had been abandoned without opposition, 
by the supporters of animal electricity. 

Among the numerous facts presented by this celebrated school to the 
physicist of Como was one which, by its singularity, for a moment, held 
all minds in suspense. I allude to the convulsions that Galvani himself 
created by bringing the muscles of the frog in contact with two plates, not 
dissimilar as Volta supposed necessary, but both from one and the same 
slab of metal. This effect, although not continuous, pi esented apparently 
an insurmountable objection to the new theory. 

Volta replied that the plates used by his adversaries might be identi- 
cal in name-and chemical nature, and yet differ in other respects, so as 
to possess entirely distinct properties. In his hands, in fact, inactive 
couples, composed of two contiguous parts of the same metallic plate, 
acquired a certain power from the moment the temperature, the degree 
of annealing, or the polish of only one of the elements was changed. 

Thus, this contest did not shake the theory of the celebrated profes- 
sor. It only proved that the word (lisshnilar^ applied to superposed me- 
tallic bodies, had been understood in altogether too restricted a sense. 

Volta had to endure a last and very formidable assault. This time 
his very friends thought him vanquished forevermore. Doctor Valli, 
his antagonist, produced contortions by the simple contact of tw^o por- 
tions of the frog, without the intervention of the metallic armatures, 
which, in all similar experiments, had been, according to our fellow- 
member, the principal generator of electricity. 

It was evident from more than one passage in Volta's letters how 
deeply he was wounded by the tone of assurance with which (T give his 
own word.s) the gidvanists, old and younfi, boasted of having reduced 
liim to silence. This silence, however, was not of long duration. An 
attentive examination of Valli's experiments soon proved to Volta that 
to insure their success this double condition was necessary: as much 
heterogeneity as possible between the parts of the animal brought in 
«. Mis. 115 <0 



loU EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

coutact aud the iuterpositiou between these same parts of a third sub- 
stance. The fuudameutal principle of the Voltaic theory, far from being 
shaken, only acquired a much greater generality. Metals no longer 
formed an exclusive class. Analogy led to the fact that two dissimilar 
substances, whatever their nature, give rise by mere contact to a 
development o*f electricity. 

There was nothing henceforth serious in the attack of the galvanists. 
Their experiments were no longer confined to very small animals. 
They produced strange nervous movements in the nostrils, tongue, and 
eyes of an ox killed for several days, thus strengthening more or less 
the hopes of those to whom galvanism had seemed a means of resusci- 
tating the dead; but they threw no new light on the theory. By 
borrowing arguments, not from nature, but the grandeur of the effects, 
the adepts of the Bolognese school strongly resembled that savant, 
who, to prove that the atmosphere is not the cause of the rise of the 
mercury in the barometer, conceived the idea of substituting a large 
cylinder for the narrow tube of this instrument, aud then cited, as a 
formidable difficulty, the exact number of quintals of liquid raised. 

Volta gave a death-blow to animal electricity. His conceptions were 
constantly verified by experiments, but these were not well understood, 
and by means of them it was hoped to undermine him. His conclusions 
had not, aud we may add that they could not have, as yet the entire and 
unprejudiced approval of physicists. The contact of two metals, of two 
dissimilar substances, gave rise to a certain agent which, like electricity, 
produced spasmodic movements. About this fact there was no doubt ; 
but was the agent in question really electrical 1 Were the proofs 
given sufficiently satisfactory ? 

When two dissimilar metals are placed on the tongue in a certain 
order, at the moment of coutact an acid taste is produced. If the 
order of these metals be reversed, the taste becomes alkaline. Xow, 
by simply applying the tongue to the conductor of an ordinary electri- 
cal machine, the taste is acid or alkaline, as the conductor is charged 
plus or minus. In this case, the phenomenon is undoubtedly due to 
electricity. "Is it not natural," said Volta, "to infer an identity of 
causes from a resemblance of the effects ; to assimilate the first experi- 
ment with the second ; to find but one diflerence between them, namely, 
the mode of producing the principle which excites the organ of taste?" 
No one questioned the importance of this comparison. Volta's pene- 
trating genius saw in it the basis of a thorough conviction. Most physi- 
cists required more explicit proofs. These proofs, these incontestable 
demonstrations, before which all opposition must vanish, Volta found 
in a capital experiment which can be explained in a few words. 

Two polished disks of copper and zinc, with insulated handles, are 
brought exactly in contact, with nothing intervening ; by means of 
these same handles, the disks are then suddenly separated ; aud, finally, 
each in turn is presented to the ordinary condenser, armed with an elec- 



EULOGY OX ALEXANDER VOLTA. 131 

trometer, when the straics instantly diverge. It was proved, too, by the 
same means, that the two metals are in opposite states of electricity ; 
that the zinc is positive and the copper negative. By i-epeating several 
times the contact of the two disks, their separation from, and contact 
with, the condenser in turns, Yolta succeeded, as with an ordinary 
machine, in producing bright sparks. After these experiments, the the- 
ory of galvanic phenomena was fully established. 

The production of electricity by the mere contact of dissimilar metals 
was ranked among the most important and best-established facts of the 
physical sciences. If, after this, there was anything left to be desired, 
it was an easy means of increasing this kind of electricity. Such means ' 
are now known to all experimentalists, and it is to Volta's genius that 
they are indebted for them. 

At the beginning of the year 1800, (the date of so wonderful a dis- 
covery could not be passed over in silence,) in consequence of some the- 
oretical views, the illustrious professor contrived a high column, con- 
sisting of pairs of copper and zinc, each pair being separated from the 
adjoining ones by pieces of moist cloth, scrupulous care being taken not 
to invert this order. But, a priori, what was to be exi)ected from such 
a combination ? Well, I do not hesitate to say that this apparently inert 
mass, this singular assemblage, this pile of so many pairs of dissimilar 
metals separated by a small quantity of liquid, is, with respect to the 
singularity of its effects, the most marvelous instrument ever invented 
by man, without even excepting the telescope and steam-engine. 

1 am quite sure I shall escape all reproach of. exaggeration if, in the 
enumeration I am about to make of the properties of Volta's apparatus, 
I shall be allovred to cite both those properties discovered by this scien- 
tist and those whose discoveries are due to his successors. 

Every one will remark in the short description I have given of the 
composition of the pile, that its two extremities are necessarily dissim- 
ilar ; that if zinc be at the base copper must be at the top, and conversely. 
These two extremities are called the 2^0 J es. 

Let us now suppose two wires attached to the opposite poles, copper 
and zinc, of a voltaic pile ; the apparatus, so arranged, being ready for 
the ditferent experiments I wish to describe. 

If one of the wires alone be grasped no sensation is felt; but the 
moment both are touched a violent shock is experienced. This, as is 
evident, is nothing more than the phenomenon of the famous Leyden jar, 
which, in 174G, excited in so high a degree the wonder of all Europe. But 
the jar could only be used once; after each shock it being necessary to 
recharge it to repeat the experiment; the pile, on the contrary, supplying 
a thoasiind successive shocks. It may be compared consequently with 
regard to the nature of its effects to the Leyden jar, with this additional 
proviso, that after ea(;h discharge it immediately retuins itself to its 
original condition. 

If the wire from the zinc pole is placed on the end of the tongue, and 



132 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

that froin the copper ou some other part of the body, a very decided acid 
taste is the result. To vary the nature of this taste, or to make it alka- 
line, it is only necessary to reverse the order of the wires. 

The sense of sight does not escape the action of this protean instru- 
ment. Here the phenomenon will appear the more interesting from the 
fact that the luminous sensation is excited without the necessity of 
touching the eye. If the end of one of the wires be applied to the fore- 
head, cheeks, nose, chin, or even the throat, the very moment the ob- 
server seizes the other wire with his hand he perceives, with his eyes 
closed, a flash of light whDse intensity and form vary according to the 
' part of the face in contact with the conductor. Similar combinations 
create in the ear sounds, or, rather, peculiar noises. 

It is not alone ou healthy organs that the pile acts. It excites or 
appears to revive those in which life seemed altogether extinct. In one 
instance, by the combination of the two wires, the muscles of a head, 
severed from the body, evinced contortions so frightful that the spec- 
tators fled terrified. In another the body of the victim half arose, its 
hands shaking, and striking the nearest objects, and raising weights of 
several pounds. The pectoral muscles imitated the respiratory move- 
ments ; and, in a word, every life-like motion was so accurately repro- 
duced that the question was involuntarily asked whether the experi- 
mentalist was not guilty of a culpable act, whether he was not adding 
cruel sufferings to those just inflicted on the criminal by the hand of 
the executioner. 

Insects, also, subjected to these experiments, gave interesting results. 
The wires of the pole, for example, greatly increased the brilliancy of the 
glow-worm, restored motion to a dead grasshopper, and made it sing. 

The marvelous efiects of the pile each day acquire a more extended 
field of action. But I must decline an invitation made me to treat the 
subject with regard to its medicinal properties and the power it possesses, 
it is said, of curing certain affections of the stomach and paralysis, for 
the lack of sufficiently accurate information. I will add, however, that 
M. Marianini, of Venice, one of the most celebrated physicists of the cen- 
tury, has recently obtained, in eight cases of severe paralysis, results so 
completely favorable, by a skillful application of electro-motors, that it 
would be the grossest negligence on the part of the medical faculty not 
to give their attention to this means of alleviating human suflering. 

If, laying aside the physiological properties of the pile, we consider it 
merely as an electrical machine, we shall find ourselves in that depart- 
ment of science which has been brought to a high degree of perfection 
by ISickolson and Carlisle, Hisinger and Berzelius, Orested and Ampere, 
and Davy. 

At first each wire, taken separately, will indicate the ordinary tem- 
perature, that of the surrounding airj but the moment these wires are 
brought into contact they will acquire an intense heat. When suffi- 
ciently attenuated they become incandescent ; still more attenuated, 
they melt altogether, to the consistency of a liquid, even if they be of 



EULOGY OX ALEXANDER YOLTA. 133 

platiua, tbe least fusible of all known metals. We may add tbat, with 
a powerful battery, two slender wires of gold or platinum exhibit, at the 
moment of contact, a disintegration so complete tbat they vanish in the 
form of a light vapor. 

Charcoal, applied to the two extremities of these same wires, takes 
fire as soon as the wires are brought into contact. Tbe light ditiused 
by them is so pure, so dazzling, so remarkable for its whiteness, that 
it is not transcending tbe limits of truth to compare it to that of tbe 
sun. Who knows, even, whether this analogy may not be carried still 
further, whether this exi)eriment may not solve one of tbe greatest 
problems of natural philosophy, and give tbe clew to tbat peculiar kind 
of combustion displayed by the sun for so many ages, with no sensible 
loss of matter or brilliancy ? The carbon attached to tbe two wires of 
tbe pile in fact becomes incandescent, even in tbe most perfect vacuum. 
Nothing, then, is taken from, or added to, their substance. After au 
experiment of this kind, whatever may have been its duration, tbe car- 
bons are found, as to their inner nature and weight, in their original 
condition.* 

Every one knows that platinum, gold, copi)er, &c., do not act sensibly 
on a magnetic needle. Wires of these different metals attached to the 
two poles of the pile follow the same law, if taken separately. But, on 
tbe contrary, from tbe moment they come in contact, a very intense 
magnetic action is developed. Besides, during the whole period of con- 
tact, these wires are themselves genuine magnets, they attract iron- 
filings and communicate a permanent magnetism to steel bars placed 
transversely to them. When tbe pile is very powerful, and the wires, 
instead of touching, are at some distance, a bright light unites their 
extremities. Intact, this light is magnetic; a magnet can attract or 
repel it. If, to-day, without being prepared for it, I mean with only the 
knowledge of their day, Franklin and Coulomb should bear me speak 
of a liame being attracted by a magnet, tbe most tlattering sentiment I 
could expect would undoubtedly be one of decided incredulity. Let us 
sui)pose tbe same wires slightly separated and immersed in a liquid, 
pure water, for example. Tbe water will be instantly decomposed ; the 
two gaseous elements forming it will be disunited ; the oxygen will bo 
liberated from the surface of tbe end of tbe wire from tbe zinc pole; and 
the hydrogen quite distant from that, at the point of the wire fiom tbe 
copper pole. The bubbles rise separately through tbe liquid, and the 
two constituent gases may therefore be collected in two separate vessels. 
If we substitute for tbe pure water a li<piid holding in solution saline 
matter, the pile will then analyze this matter. Tbe acids will pass to 
tbe zinc pole and tbe alkalies to tbe copper. 

This is tbe most powerful method of analysis known. It has recently 
enriched science w'ith a multitude of important results. It is, for in- 



*Thi8 is not correct; tbere is a transfer of the iiarticles of carbon from one polo to 
the other.— J. IF. 



134 EULOGY OX ALEXANDER VOLTA. N 

stance, to the pile we are iu deb ted for the first decomposition of a great 
number of alkalies and earths which were before considered as simple 
substances; it is by it that all those bodies have become oxides; that 
chemistry now possesses metals, such as potassium, which can be 
kneaded by the fingers like wax, and will float on the surface of the water, 
because lighter than it ; and are spontaneously kindled, diffusing the 
brightest light. 

This would be the place to introduce all that is mysterious, I should 
say almost incomprehensible, in the decompositions effected by the 
voltaic pile ; to dwell upon the separate disengagements, completely 
distinct, of the two disunited gaseous elements of a liquid, on the precipita- 
tions of the constituentsolid principles of the same saline molecule, which 
are affected by the particles of the fluid dissolving at great distances from 
each other; on the strange, wild commotions that these different phe- 
nomena s(^med to involve ; but time fails me. However, before finish- 
ing this picture, I will remark that the pile is not merely a means of 
analysis ; that if, by considerably changing the electrical affinities of 
the elements of bodies, it often leads to their complete separation, its 
power, delicately managed, has become, on the contrary, in the hands 
of one of our fellow-members, the regenerative principle of a large num- 
ber of combinations almost endless in nature and which art, up to this 
time, knew not how to imitate. 

I will add a few more words still, to point out the different modifica- 
tions undergone by the i>ile since passing from the hands of its illustri- 
ous inventor. 

The characteristic feature of the pile consists of a large number of 
pairs, or, binary combinations, of dissimilar metals. These metals are 
usually copper and zinc; and these elements, the copper and zinc of 
each pair, can be soldered together. 

The pairs follow in the same order. Thus when zinc is below in the 
first, it is indispensably necessary it should be below in all the others. 
Finally the pairs must be separated by a liquid conductor of electricity. 
Now, who cannot see how easy it is to fulfill these conditions without 
siqjerposing the elements, without forming them into a pile? This first 
arrangement, which, by the way, was the origin of the name of the api^a- 
ratus, has been changed. The pairs are not now vertical, but succeed 
each other so as to form as a whole a horizontal parallelopiped. Each 
of them is immersed in a trough containing a liquid, which is a decided 
improvement over the merely moist pieces of pasteboard or cloth used 
in the beginning. 

Apparatus have been constructed by several physicists under the 
denomination of dry pile, which only comparatively maybe so called, as 
strictly speaking they do not deserve the name. The best known, those 
of Professor Zamboni, are composed of several thousands of disks of 
paper, tinned on one side and covered on the other by a thin layer of 
X^ulverized oxide of manganese, which is rendered adhesive by means 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 135 

of a paste of flour and milk. The disks, of course, being piled up in 
the same order, their dissimilar surfaces, or, I should say, the tin and 
manganese surfcices of two contiguous pairs, are in contact. Here, then, 
we have the two metallic elements, of different kinds, which constitute 
what were called j;af>s in the description of Volta's first pile. With 
regard to the intermediary conducting liquid, those who object to apply 
the name of dry piles to those of Zamboni will discover the cause of the 
humidity in the hygrometrical property always preserved by the paper 
placed between each plate of tin and layer of powdered manganese. 

The wonderful results obtained by physicists by means of voltaic 
piles are owing undoubtedly, in a measure, to the remarkable improve- 
ments introduced by them in the construction of these apparatus; but 
the chief cause is the enormous dimensions they have succeeded in giv- 
ing them. The metallic pairs in Volta's first i)iles were scarcely larger 
than a five-franc piece. In M. Children's pile each element had a sur- 
face of thirty-two English square feet. Volta, as well as can be dis- 
covered from the analysis I have just given of his views, accounted for 
the development of electricity by the mere contact of the two metals of 
diiiereut natures constituting each pair. The liquid between them 
simply performed the office of conductor. This theory, called the 
theory of contact, was attacked at an early date by Fabroni, one of 
Volta's countrymen. He supposed that the oxidation of the metallic 
surfaces of the pairs, induced by the liquid touching them, was the 
principal cause of the phenomena of the pile. Wollaston, some time 
after, developed this same idea with his usual sagacity. Davy sup- 
ported it, in his turn, by ingenious experiments; and finally, to-day, 
this chemical theory of the pile prevails almost unanimously among 
physicists. 

I hazarded the opinion, just now, with some timidity, that the pile 
was the most marvellous instrument ever invented by the human mind. 
If, in the enumeration you have just heard of its difi'erent properties, 
my voice has not been altogether without power, I might now repeat 
my first assertion and consider it thoroughly established. 

According to some biographers, Volta's brain, exhausted by long- 
continued work, and especially by the production of the pile, refused to 
furnish anything more. Others saw, in an obstinate silence of nearly 
thirty years, only the effects of a puerile fear, which the illustrious 
physicist had not the courage to overcome. He feared, it is said, that 
on comparing his more recent researches with those on electricity by 
contact, the public would immediately conclude that his mind was 
weakened. These two explanations are doubtless very ingenious, but 
they labor under the signal defe(;t of being entirely superfluous. For 
the pile w^as invented in 1800, and two ingenious essays, one on the 
"Phenomenon of Hail," (Le phenomene de la grele,) and the other on 
the "Periodicity of storms and the cold accompanying them," (Ija 
periodicite des orages et le froid qui les accompagne,) were not i)ul)- 
lished until six and seventeen vears after. 



136 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

LIFE OF VOLTA — OFFICES FILLED BY IIIM— HIS CHARACTETi— HIS 

DEATH. 

Gentlemen : I Lave just displayed to your view a picture of Volta's 
brilliant career. I have tried to specify, iu detail, the grand discoveries 
with which this wonderful genius has enriched the i)hysical sciences. 
i^Tothing now remains, to carry out the usual form, but to relate briefly 
the principal events of his i)ublic and private life. 

The painful duties which devolved upon Volta, almost from earliest 
youth, detained him in his native city till 1777. This year, for the first 
time, he left the picturesque banks of Lake Como and traveled through 
Switzerland. His absence lasted several weeks, but was not marked 
by any important event. At Berne, Volta visited the celebrated 
nailer, who was fast bringing his life to a close by an immoderate use 
of opium. Thence he went to Fernay, where every description of talent 
was secure of a kind welcome. Our immortal countryman, in the long 
conversation with which he honored the young professor, glanced at the 
very numerous, rich, and varied departments of Italian literature, passed 
in review the savants, poets, sculptors, and painters which adorn this 
literature, with a superiority of views, a delicacy of taste, and a nicety 
of judgment which left on Volta's mind an indelible imi)ression. 

At Geneva, Volta formed a close friendship with the celebrated his- 
torian of the Alps, a man most capable of ai)preciatiug his discoveries. 
That was a great century, gentlemen, in which a traveler, in a day's 
journey, without losing sight of the Jura, could render homage to a 
Saussure, a Haller, Jean-Jacques, and Voltaire. 

Volta returned to Italy by way of Aigne-Belle, taking with him to his 
countrymen that precious root, the potato, which, by proper cultivation, 
would render a complete famine impossible. In Lombardy, where 
frightful storms destroy in a few moments cereals distributed over a 
vast region of country, an article of food, which develops, grows, and 
matures under the ground, sheltered from the ravages of hail, was an 
inestimable gift to the whole population. 

Volta had himself written a circumstantial account of his travels in 
Switzerland ; but it was hidden in the archives of Lombardy. Its recent 
publication is due to a custom which, in all probability, will not soon 
be adopted in a certain country, where a writer has dared to designate 
marriage as the most serious of comic things, without being 'torn to 
pieces for it. In Italy, where this act of our life is undoubtedly u-garded 
with more seriousness, each one, in his sphere of life, endeavors to sig- 
nalize it by some act for the general good of his fellow-citizens. It was 
the marriage of M. Antoine Eeiua, of JNIilan, in 1827, which brought to 
light Volta's small work from the otiicial portfolios of the government, 
veritable catacombs, where, in all countries, heaps of treasures lie buried 
forever. 

Human institutions arc so strange that the fortunes, the well-being, 
the whole future of one of tlie greatest geniuses of whom Italy c^\n 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 137 

boast, ^yere at the mercy of the administrator-general of Loinbardy. I 
suppose ibat the ruling powers, in selecting this functionary, were led 
by their fastidiousness to require that a certain knowledge of finance 
should be superadded to the quarterings of nobility imperiously pre- 
scribed by etiquette ; and, notwithstanding, here was the man called on 
to decide, decide, too, without appeal [from his judgment] whether Volta 
deserved to be transferred to a wider theater, or, indeed, left a martyr 
at the small school of Como, he should be dei)rived during his whole 
life of costly accessories that certainly cannot supply the place of genius, 
but invest it with great power. Let us be quick to acknowledge that 
so far as Volta was concerned chance remedied the folly incident to such 
a state of dependence. Comte de Firmian, the administrator, was a 
friend to literature. The school of Pavia became the object of his 
assiduous care. He founded there a professorshij) of physics, and in 
1779 Volta was elected to fill it. For many years crowds of young men 
from all countries thronged the lectures of the illustrious professor; 
there they learned, I will not say the details of science, for uearly all 
works on the subject give these, but the philosophical history of the 
principal discoveries ; the subtile correlations which escape ordinary in- 
telligence, and a matter which vei-y few individuals have the privilege 
of divulging, the progress of discovery. 

Volta's style was lucid, unaffected, and sometimes monotonous, but al- 
ways characterized by modesty and refinement ; qualities which, when 
united to talents of the first order, are always attractive to youth. 
In Italy, where the imagination is so easily excited, they produced a 
genuine enthusiasm. The desire to boast before the world of the honor 
of being a disciple of Volta, contributed vastly for more than the third 
of a century to the wonderful success of the University of the Tessin. 

The proverbial /(/r tiicntc of the Italians is strictly true as to physical 
exertion. They travel little, and among the very opulent families, 
some are found so thoroughly lioman that not even the sublime erup- 
tions of Vesuvius can tempt them from the fresh shades of their villas. 
There are cultivated Florentines who have never seen Saint Peter's and 
the Coliseum except in engravings; Milanese who all their lives know 
only from hearsay that, at some leagues distant, there is an immense 
city and hundreds of magnificent palaces built in the sea. Volta him- 
self only left the banks of his native Lario for the purpose of scientific 
researches. I do not think his travels in Italy extended as far as Na- 
ples and Kome. If, in 1780, he crossed the Apennines to go from Bo- 
logna to Florence, it was with the hope of finding an opportunity in the 
fires of Fictra Mala, en route, of submitting his views on the origin of 
natural infiammable gas to a decisive proof. If, in 1782, accomi)anied 
by the celebrated Scarpa, he visited the capitals of (lermany, Holland, 
England, and France, it w^as to make the acquaintance of Lichtenberg^ 
Van Marum, Priestley, Laplace, and Lavoisier, and to enrich the labor- 
atory of Pavia with certain instruments for investigation and demon- 



105 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

stration, of wliich descriptions and drawings, even those best executed, 
could give but an imperfect idea. 

Accepting an invitation from General Bonaparte, the conqueror of 
Italy, Volta returned to Paris in 1801. He there repeated his experi- 
ments on electricity by contact, before a large committee of the Insti- 
tute. The First Consul wished to be present at the meeting where the 
committee were to give a detailed account of these wonderful phe- 
nomena. Their conclusions were scarcely reached when he proposed 
to confer upon Volta a gold medal to commemorate the gratitude of the 
French scientists. Custom, or, we may add, academic regulations, 
scarcely sanctioned such a request, but rules are made for ordinary 
occasions, and the professor of Pavia had just placed himself outside of 
this line The medal was therefore voted by acclamation, and as Bona- 
parte did nothing by halves, the learned traveler received the same day, 
from the public fund, the sum of 2,000 crowns to defray his traveling 
expenses. The creation of a prize of 00,000 francs to be awarded to 
him who would give to the sciences of electricity and magnetism an im- 
pulse comparable to that received by the first of these sciences from Frank- 
lin and Volta, is not a less characteristic evidence of the enthusiasm of 
the great captain. This impression was lasting. The i)rofessor of Pavia 
became Napoleon's type of genius. Thus, step by step, we see him dec- 
orated Vv'ith the crosses of the legion of honor and the iron crown, ele(;ted 
member of the Italian consulate, and elevated to the dignity of count 
and senator of the kingdom of Louibardy. When the Italian Institute 
appeared at the palace, if Volta, accidentally, was not in the front 
ranks, the abrupt questions, where is Volta; can he be sick ; why did 
he not come ? proved, only too evidently, perhaps, that, in the eyes of the 
sovereign, notwithstanding all their learning, the other members were 
but mere satellites of the inventor of the pile. " I cannot consent,'' said 
Napoleon in 1804, " to Volta's withdrawal. If his duties as professor 
are too fatiguing, they must be lessened. Let him deliver but one 
lecture during the year, if desired ; but the University of Pavia would 
receive its death-blow tlie moment I allowed so illustrious a name to dis- 
appear from the list of its meml)ers ; besides," added he, "a good gen- 
eral should die on the field of honor." The good general. found the 
arf-ument unanswerable, and the youth of Italy, whose idol he was, 
were thus enabled to enjoy a few more years of his delightful lectures. 

Newton, during his parliamentary career, it is said, never spoke but 
once, and that was to ask the doorkeeper of the Ilouse of Commons to 
close a window to prevent a current of air giving cold to an orator 
when speaking. If the doorkeepers of Lyons, during the Italian consul- 
ate, and those of the senate at Milan, had been less careful, Volta, per- 
haps, from mere goodness of heart, if but for a moment, might have 
overcome his extreme reserve; but the opportunity not otlering, the 
distinguished physicist will be inevitably classed with those personages 
who, whether from timidity or indifference, during long revolutions, are 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 139 

luembcrs ot the Uiost auiinatod popular assemblies without givin.cf an 
opinion or uttering a single word. 

It has been said that happiness, like matter, is corai)osed of imjiercept- 
ible elements. If this idea of Franklin be correct, Volta was luippy. 
.Entirely devoted, in spite of high jmlitical dignities, to his studies, 
nothing disturbed his tranquillity. According to Solon's law he v»ould 
3iave been exiled, for not one of the parties, for nearly a quarter 
of a century agitating Lombardy, could boast of numbering him in its 
Tanks. The illustrious professor's name only re-appeared after the 
:Storm as an ornament to the existing authorities. Even in hi^ most 
private intimacies Volta had the greatest aversion to any conversation 
rehiting to public matters. He did not hesitate, as soon as there was 
an opening, to cut it short by one of those witticisms or puns, called in 
Italy frcddure and in France calcmhour. But, it must be confessed, 
practice here did not make perfect, as several of the frcddure of the 
great i)hysicist, not considered unworthy of being quoted, are I'ar from 
being as irreproachable as his experiments. 

Volta was married in 1794, at the age of forty -nine, to ]\Iademoiselle 
Therese Peregriai. He had three sons, two surviving him and the other 
dying" at the age of eighteen, just when he had given promise of the 
most brilliant talents. This was the only sorrow, I believe, our philos- 
opher ever experienced during the whole of his long cai'eer. His dis- 
coveries were too brilliant, without any doubt, not to have aroused 
€uvy, but it never dared attack them, even under its most usual dis- 
guise, as it never (juestioned their novelty. 

Contentions with regard to priority have been the torments of invent- 
ors in all ages. Spite, the sentiment to which it usually gives rise, it is 
cot fastidious in the choice of its means of attack. When evidence is 
wanting, sarcasm becomes its favorite weapon, and it but too often 
possesses the cruel power of rendering it most cutting. It is related 
that Harvey, who had manfully resisted the numerous criticisms of 
Tvhich his discoveries had been the object, totally lost courage when cer- 
tain adversaries, under pretense of concession, declared that they would 
'Concede to him the merit of having circulated the circulation of the blood. 
Let us congratulate ourselves, gentlemen, that Volta was never exposed 
to such contentious; let us congratulate his countrymen on having 
guarded him from them. The Bologuese school, for a long time, un- 
doubtedly upheld the do(;trine of animal electricity. Honorable senti- 
ments of nationality induced them to desire that Galvani's discovery 
should remain entire ; that it should not form a part of the grand phe- 
nomena of voltaic electricity as a peculiar clause; and yet they never 
alluded to the voltaic phenomena but with admiration. Never did an 
Italian mouth pronounce the name of the inventor of the pile without 
coupling it with the most unequivocal terras of esteem and profound 
respect, and without prefixing a word most expressive in its simplicity 
and especially sweet to the ears of a fellow-citizen ; from Koveredo to 



140 EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 

Messina, educated people always spoke of tbo physicist of Pavia as 
nostra Yolta. 

I have mentioned the honors conferred upon him by Napoleon. All 
the great universities of Europe had invited him to join them. Of the 
eight foreign members of the institute, he belonged to the first rank. 
So many honors never once excited in Volta's soul a sensation of pride. 
The small village of Como was always his favorite place of residence. 
The tempting and often repeated offers from Kussia could not induce him 
to exchange the beautiful skies of Lombardy for the fogs of the IS^eva. 

The predominant traits of the illustrious professor were strength and 
quickness of mind, comprehensiveness and justness of views, and truth 
and warmth of nature. ISTo act of his life was ever prompted bj' ambi- 
tion, love of money, or a spirit of rivalry. The love of study, his ruling 
and only passion, remained through life pure and unspotted by the 
world. 

Volta was tall, with features as noble and regular as those of 
an antique statue ; his broad brow was deeply furrowed by profound 
meditation and his countenance expressed both tranquillity of soul and 
penetration of mind. His manners always retained traces of the rus- 
ticity contracted in his youth. Many persons remember having seen 
him in Paris every day enter the baker's, and afterward, while walking 
the streets, eat the large rolls which he had just bought, without seem- 
ing to suspect that any one would remark it. I will be i)ardoned, I 
hope, so many minute particulars. Has not Foutenelle related that 
Newton had a thick suit of hair, never wore spectacles, and never lost 
but one tooth ? Names so great justify and ennoble the most minute 
details. When, in 1819, Volta finally resigned the trust with which 
he had been invested at the University of the Tessin, he retired to Como. 
From this time all his relations with the scientific world ceased. He 
rarely received any of the numerous travelers who, attracted by his 
great reputation, came to pay him homage. 

In 1823 a slight attack of apoplexy developed very serious symptoms; 
but prompt remedies soon succeeded in relieving him. Four years after, 
in 1827, in the beginning of March, the venerable old man was attacked 
by a fever, which, in the course of a few days, deprived him of his remain- 
ing strength. On the 5th of the same month he exjiired without suffer- 
ing, at the age of eighty-two years and fifteen days. 

Oomo celebrated Volta's obsequies with great pomp. The professors 
and students of the college, and all the friends of science, and the 
educated inhabitants of the village and its environs, hastened to accom- 
pany to their last resting-place the mortal remains of the illustrious 
scientist, the charitable citizen, and the man exemplary in all his 
domestic relations. The beautiful nionumcnt erected to his memory, 
near the picturesque village of Camnago, the native place of Volta's 
family, is a striking testimony of the sincerity of their regrets, and 
finally all Italy participated in the mourning of the Milanese. 



EULOGY ON ALEXANDER VOLTA. 141 

On this side of the Alps the feelin<;' excited was much less inteuse. 
Those who luay thiuk this strauge, must remember that on the same 
day, almost at the same hour, France lost the author of " La Mecanique 
Celeste." Yolta, for six years, had lived solely in his family, llis active 
mind was almost gone. The names electrophorus and condenser, and 
even that of the pile, no longer possessed the power of njaking his 
heart beat. Laplace, on the contrary, retained up to his last hour 
that energy and activity of mind, that passionate love of scientitic dis- 
coveries, which for more than half a century rendered him the soul of 
your reunions. When death surprised bim, at the age of seventy-eight, 
he was publishing a sequel to the fifth volume of his great work. On 
reflecting on the immensity of such a loss, all will acknowledge, I doubt 
not, that there is great injustice in reproaching the academy for hav- 
ing at the first moment concentrated all its thoughts on the fatal blow 
it had just received. As for myself, gentlemen, I have never misunder- 
stood your sentiments, and my only fear now is my inability to do all 
the justice you desire to the immeasurable services rendered to science 
by the illustrious })rofessor of Pavia. I Hatter myself, however, it will 
not be imputed to a want of conviction. In moments of pleasing rev- 
ery, when passing in review all contemporary productions, any one can 
select, according to his habits, tastes, and bent of mind, without much 
discrimination, which one of these productions he would prefer to be 
the author of, "La Mecanique Celeste" or the voltaic pile; at the same 
time and always on the same level, they have presented themselves to 
my mind. An academician devoted to the study of the stars could not 
possibly give a more striking proof of the profound admiration which 
the immortal discoveries of Volta always inspired. 

The place of foreign member, made vacant by Volta's death, was 
filled by Br. Thomas Young. The academic corps is happy, gentlemen, 
when forced to recruit its ranks, to be able to succeed genius to genius. 



THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 



[Fiom tlie History of Science and of Savants, by Alpbonse de Candolle. — Traiislatod lor 
the Smithsonian Institution.] 



It is liot difficult to poiut out certaiu probabilities conceruiug the 
future destiny of the humau race. Thiss is, in some respects, deter- 
mined naturally, but is wanting neither in importance nor interest. 

In order to examine the question properly, it is necessary to bear in 
mind three principles : 1st, organized beings endowed with will and the 
faculty of locomotion always seek to adapt themselves to the circum- 
stances in which they are placed, and none do so more eflectually than 
man, on account of his superior intelligence; 2d, the individuals of the 
human species that are the least able to accommodate themselves to 
their circumstances are most liable to perish, or at least to leave a small 
number of descendants, so that populations are principally recruited by 
the individuals that possess the qualities best adapted to the circum- 
stances of the country and the age in which they live; 3d, the violent 
contests between nations and individuals accelerate moditications aud 
adaptations to new circumstances. The application of these laws com- 
pels us first to consider, as far as we are able, the circumstances, more 
or less immediate, in which our successors will probably find tberaselves. 

If we take into consideration a near future, of a few centuries for ex- 
ample, or of a thousand years, we may anticipate a certain degree of 
stability in the physical conditions, general and even local, which alfect 
the human species; at least, judging from the past, this seems to be 
highly probable. Climates have not changed since the time of the oldest 
historic documents. The configurations of the surface of the earth have 
been very little altered. Undoubtedly, geology shows us that there 
have been great changes, but ordinarily tliese took place very slowly. 
The supposition of a contiuuatiou of the present physical conditions 
during several generations of man is then presumable. Xow, with the 
present conditions very nearly the same, it is easy to foresee two phe- 
nomena : 1st, the land will be more thickly inhabited, since certain 
very active aud robust nations have sufficient intelligence to cross the 
seas, and, above all, because in every country the population constantly 
tends to increase ; in other words, the men of our time will adapt them- 
selves more and more to the conditions of existence offered them in their 
own country and elsewhere, these conditions involving an immense aug- 

142 



THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 143 

luentatioii of the general population of the globe ; 2d, the continual 
transportation and passagio of men from one part of the world to another 
will produce more and more frequent mingling of the races. Here, 
also, certain probabilities may be foreseen. 

The races inferior in number, strength, physical condition, or intelli- 
gence must either disappear or be mingled with the races which are 
superior to them in all these qualities- Like the Australians, many of 
the races which inhabit the islands of the Pacific Ocean, the Hottentots, 
the natives of some parts of America, must disappear, in view of the 
impossibility of their struggling successfully against other nations, 
either in war or peace. The races less inferior, but not very active, of 
Mexico, Peru, and some parts of Asia, have already mingled with their 
conquerors, so as to constitute intermediate poi)ulations. Put there are 
three principal races, endowed wich admirable qualities for invasion, 
which will mix with the inferior races more or less according to local 
circumstances. These three principal races are: the white race, repre- 
sented particularly by the Europeans and their xlmerican descendants j 
the yellow race, represented chiefly by the Chinese and the Japanese; 
and the negro race. The first has the advantage in intelligence, but it 
does not so well endure warm climates as the other two. The emigra- 
tion of the whites to the equatorial countries w'ill undoubtedlv continue, 
but their offspring will be decimated in these warn) regions, vvliilc those 
of the negroes and the Chinese will generally survive. Even the adults 
of the white race with difliculty endure the heat of southern countries. 
The mixed races will be at less disadvantage in the torrid zone than 
the white; but if the natural selection takes place in favor of the more 
colored individuals, the latter will at last prevail, in spite of all min- 
gling. On the other hand, the negro race will not prosper in cold coun- 
tries, and even the half-breeds do not bear a rigorous climate as well as 
the whites. In spite, then, of the mingling of the races, we may predict 
a continual i)reilominance of the negroes in the equatorial, and of the 
Avhites in the colder regions. The Chinese alone seem at once suffi- 
ciently intelligent and robust to struggle in all latitudes with both these 
races. They are already numerous, and have commenced to emigrate. 
On account of their psychical and physiological (lualities, and also their 
ingenuity and inqaisitiveness, they ought to supplant the other races; 
but they lack courage, and are not trustworthy. The whites of Europe 
and of the United States will sustain the struggle, thanks to their 
habitual bravery, their facility of comprehension, and the confidence 
they can place in each other. The negroes also will prevail on ac(;ount 
of their physical vigor. The mingling of the three principal races will 
not, however, be complete. There will be many and every degree of 
hybrid or mixed races; but in Africa, in China, and in the north of our 
hemisphere, the primitive races will probably continue to predominate 
for many centuries. 

Let us now consider a future more remote, for example of fifty thou- 



144 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 

sand, one hundred thousand, or even of several hundred thousands of 
years. It is still possible to foresee for these distant times certain ten- 
dencies and certain conditions of the human species. We should, how- 
ever, bear in mind that which renders doubtful even the most plausible 
suppositions. For a lapse of time so prolonged, we cannot tell whether 
some great terrestrial or cosmical event may not change absolutely 
external conditions. Our globe may experience depressions and eleva- 
tions which may alter entirely" the nature of the habitable surface. 
New diseases may be manifested among men of which we have now no 
idea. These maladies may destroy a whole race or even affect the 
entire human species. Astronomers have shown us that the variations 
of the plane of the ecliptic and of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit 
are not of a nature to produce any sensible change in climates. In 
stating this fact, however, Mr. Croll * is compelled to admit that the 
accumulation of ice, the effect of the latter cause acting alternately 
upon the north and upon the south pole, must produce changes in the 
currents and in the dominant winds, which must be followed by changes 
in climate in all parts of the world. There must have been several 
glacial periods iu each hemisphere. The least ancient in the northern 
hemisphere must have commenced about two hundred and forty thou- 
sand and ended about eighty thousand years ago. Sir Charles Lyellt 
has disputed the opinions of Mr. Croll, and according to him the perio- 
dicity of the glacial periods must be very uncertain. Still we cannot 
overlook the possibility of such events, the effect of which would be to 
drive all organized beings from each polar region toward the temper- 
ate zones, and those of the temperate regions to the equatorial, produc- 
ing naturally the extinction of many species, and as regards man of 
many races. 

Finally, who can foresee what may happen to our entire solar system? 
It is moving with great rapidity in a certain direction. Perhaps some 
time it may come into some part of the universe much warmer or colder 
than the space it has passed through for several millions of years. The 
sun, also, may change. Events such as these may destroy not only 
man but all the organized beings of our globe. 

Setting aside these hypothetical cases, which are beyond the power of 
science to foresee, let us pass to facts which are, on the contrary, abso- 
lutely certain. 

The effect of the oxygen of the air, and the incessant action of human 
labor, is diminishing the quantity of metals and of coal, accessible with- 
out too much effort, on the surface of the earth. Undoubtedly, the 
genius of savants will discover processes for working mines to greater 
depths, and for profiting by the metallic oxides distributed through the 
soil. New combustibles also may be discovered, but they can never be 
as advantageous as those we now enjoy, and the metallic dust, as for 

* Croll, iu Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine, 1S67 and 1868. 
i Sir Charles Lyell, Principles of Geology, latest edition. 



THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 145 

example that of worn iron, which is everywhere scattered on the earth, 
will be much more difficult to obtain than the primitive accumulations 
of to-day. There must be necessarily a diminution of population as 
these essential resources become rare and more and more inaccessible, 
until finally they are quite exhausted. The people will then be in a 
most unhappy condition. There will be no railroads, no steamboats, 
nothing which requires coal or metal. Their industries will gradually 
be reduced as copper and iron become scarce. Certain populations at 
once sedentary and agricultural, living in the warm countries and able 
to content themselves with little, will then be the best adapted to the 
general circumstances of the globe. At the tropics, therefore, and in 
the vicinity of the great accumulations of coal in the United States, 
populations will remain longest collected in masses. The rarity of the 
metals, however, will be a cause of decadence, even in these privileged 
localities. 

Another change, slower but equally sure, is the diminution of terres- 
trial surfaces, and particularly the lowering of elevated regions, by the 
incessant action of water, of ice, and of air. For thousands of years, 
every stream, every river, has carried toward the ocean solid particles 
detached from these heights, and this slow process must continue. The 
mean lowering of continents has been calculated from the ooze of the 
principal rivers, supposing proportions to be constant. Such calcula- 
tions, however, rest upon conditions too variable to merit much confi- 
dence ; but the tendency of the change is certain. Upon high mountains 
and in the polar regions, glaciers corrode the hardest rocks and carry 
solid substances to the rivers. Less elevated surfaces are in like man- 
ner depressed by the action of water. The ooze is finally transferred to 
the bottom of the seas ; and as the latter have already an extent much 
greater than the land and a depth surpassing the elevation of the high- 
est mountains, it is clear that the solid land habitable by man will dimin- 
ish relatively to the liquid surface. In other words, the bottom of the 
seas is filling up in part and the surface must rise more or less, if we 
suppose the liquid mass constant. At the same time, for several centu- 
ries the additions to certain coasts may be considered equal to the ero- 
sions of others, and partial elevations counteracted by equal depressions. 

Thus, independent of abnormal events, which it is impossible to fore- 
see, all existing phenomena indicate that the islands and continents 
must first diminish in elevation, then in extent, and we may predict that 
in some far distant future a very nearly complete submersion of terres- 
trial surfaces will take place, and consequently a destruction more or less 
complete of all organized beings, vegetable and animal, which live upon 
these surfaces, or even in fresh waters. The human species, on account 
of superior intelligence, may survive longer than the others ; but they 
also will then be near their end, since they will be able to live only upon 
boats, and there will be neither wood nor metal of which these can be 
constructed. The submersion of continents will probably not be general, 
S. Mis. 115 10 



146 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE./ 

and volcauic or coral islands forming, there will remain a few points 
inhabited by man ; but of the isolation of their condition it is di£Qcult to 
form an idea. 

Before this extreme period, that events impossible to predict may 
still further remove, we should imagine the human species deprived 
gradually of the treasures of coal and the metals to-day within reach, 
and obliged to concentrate themselves upon terrestrial surfaces less in 
extent and insulated, as they apparently have already existed in very 
ancient geological times. The scarcity of the combustibles and of the 
metals would render communication difficult. The depression of the 
mountain-chains would diminish the condensation of aqueous vapors, 
and increase the extent of sterile regions, and countries now fertile would 
become like those in the interior of Australia. During this period, the 
populations would greatly diminish, but intelligence and morality, per- 
haps, having increased, this reduction would not be produced, as now, 
by a frightful mortality among the improvident, and still more horrible 
accessories, such as infanticide and war. Man may be, for example, in 
such a condition as to be able to control the proportion of masculine and 
feminine births, which is not at all improbable, according to the exam- 
ple of other organized species. The result would be an increasing 
rarity of females, and a considerable diminution of births. 

In proportion as the continents, deprived of mountains, become dry 
in the interior, or divided into archipelagoes, the people will become 
more and more maritime. From the sea they will be obliged to draw 
the greater part of the means of subsistence; but they will have to 
struggle against the encroachments of its waves. The intelligent and 
persevering will then be the best adapted to the circumstances ; and, in 
spite of their isolation, and the difficulties of navigation, they may still 
prosper. They may even enjoy the well-being which results from a 
peaceable existence ; for at this time, without metals or combustibles, it 
would be difficult to form squadrons to dominate the seas, and grand 
armies to ravage the land. 

The mingling of the old races will be arrested by the separation of 
the terrestrial surfaces into small portions, and by the increasing diffi- 
culty of communication. What remains of the at present three princi- 
pal races will probably be greatly dispersed. The islands of the north- 
ern and southern regions being exposed to the more or less periodical 
invasion of ice, and having no contiguity with lands better situated, the 
white race, which will have continued longer here than in the equatorial 
regions, will be that which will suffer the most. In the central archi- 
pelagoes, the colored races, remaining as pure as at present, on account 
of natural selection during their long isolation, will fare better. 

To recapitulate, our period and that which will follow for the next 
thousand years will be characterized by a great increase in population, 
a mingling of races, and a prosperity more or less marked. Then will 
probably follow a long period of diminution of population, of separation of 



THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 147 

the people, and of decadence. Is not this what generally happens whea 
there is a struggle between different influences ? Fixed, certain causes 
increase or diminish slowly. We find to-day that many animal species 
have become extinct. They at first became rare. Often driven from 
their habitations, from place to place, they were at last reduced to a 
single district, where some cause, perhaps a very unimportant one, 
ended their existence. In former times, if we can judge sufficiently 
from geological data, the living species have had a period of abundance 
and extension followed by one of rarity and limitation. The human 
species will describe in the same way a sort of curve, the extremes of 
which escape our powers of observation, while the mean part power- 
fully excites our attention. We know that one of these extremes has 
already existed ; we foresee the time when man will occupy all the habita- 
ble surface of the earth, and will have consumed that which is now found 
accumulated by a long series of geological events. Without muck 
imagination, we can then foresee the other part of the curve, tending to 
some final point in the far future. Such are the probabilities according 
to the existing state of things ; but the longer the time considered, the 
more it is necessary to admit the possibility of events unknown, un- 
foreseen, impossible even to be foreseen, which may introduce entirely 
different conditions. 

In these suppositions or reflections I am at variance with Messrs. 
Spencer and Galton in their writings upon this subject. Mr. Spencer* 
speaks very little of the physical conditions to which man will be sub- 
ject. He mentions only the alternation of ice at the two poles as neces- 
sarily in time displacing man. Notwithstanding the calculations and 
the hypothesis of Mr. Croll, this is perhaps the least certain and the 
least important of the material modifications which the human species 
will encounter. The increasing rarity of coal and the metals is muck 
more evident, much nearer at hand, especially the nirity of such depos- 
its of coal as are easily attained. As to the modifications of man him- 
self, produced through variability, competition, and the selection whick 
results, Mr. Spencer analyzes the question with skill, but, in my opinion, 
not completely. The struggle, he says, becomes from century to century 
more active on account of the increase of the population, and the prog- 
ress of science, industry, and commerce, which compels individuals to 
seek more knowledge and to exert greater effort. There will be, on thia 
account, probably a more and more marked development of the intel- 
lectual faculties, (vol. ii, pp. 496, 499,) and also those of morality, (p. 497.) 
From these new intellectual and moral conditions, he says, there will 
result a less degree of fecundity, which will become another source of 
moral and intellectual progress. 

Mr. Galton t reasons very nearly the same as Mr. Spencer in what 
concerns the probable intellectual development ; only he fears that the 

* Herbert Spencer's Principles of Biology, vol. ii, book G, ch. 13. 
t Galton, Hereditary Genius, pp. 336-362. 



148 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 

amelioratiou of tbe faculties in tlie races already advanced will not be 
effected with sufficient rapidity to keep pace with tbe growing needs of 
a civilization which increases enormously. After having proved the 
extinction of several savage races through the simple effect of a strug- 
gle tbey could not sustain against the white race, he adds:* "We also, 
the promoters of an advanced civilization, we begin to show that we are 
incapable of progressing intellectually with the same rapidity as the 
demands which are made upon us. Tbe needs of centralization, of 
communication, and of culture demand more brain and more mental 
energy than our race possess. There is loud demand for greater capa- 
city in every social position. Neither statesmen, savants, artisans, nor 
laborers are entirely equal to the present complications of their differ- 
ent professions Our race is overburdened ; it seems about to 

degenerate, because its requirements are greater than its means. When 
the struggle for existence is not too great for the strength of a race, it is 
beneficial and conservative, otherwise it is mortal." 

We may doubt some of these assertions. For example, centralization 
does not complicate 5 it simplifies. There is, in fact, as much prevision 
required, as many difficulties to surmount, as much energy employed in 
the management of a number of small workshops, a number of small 
independent populations, as in the control, by a single order, of thou- 
sands of workmen and thousands of inhabitants. The division of labor 
also simplifies, and this always augments with civilization. It has been 
said, however, in regard to this, that the powers of the mind are weak- 
ened when each individual thinks only of a single thing. In this point 
of view, such division in highly-civilized populations is a hinderance to 
intellectual development. 

In general, the two authors I have just quoted, while making remarks 
very just, sometimes very original and wortby of attention, appear to 
me to have somewhat forgotten tbe inequality of development of differ- 
ent classes and people, as well as* tbe numerous causes which lead to a 
selection, in the bad sense of the term, esc to the arrest of a selection. 
History, moreover, is in accord with theory in showing to what degree 
the advance of intelligence and morality is irregular and doubtful, even 
during the lapse of several thousands of years. From tbe time of Socra- 
tes to that of Lavoisier, how many eminent men have died a miserable 
death, victims of the force and ignorance of the many ! How many cul- 
tivated populations have disappeared! How many savage invasions 
have occurred ! I do not refer only to those which destroyed tbe Eoman 
empire, but also to the despicable Chinese and other invasions in the 
civilized countries of to-day. Mr. Spencer admits with reason t tbat a 
development of the nervous system has the effect of diminishing the 
additions to population, and, as he considers such a development proba- 
ble, sees in it a double cause of satisfaction for tbe future. Populations 
will thus tend to become stationary as to number just as they have 

* Page 345. t Page 506. 



THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 149 

covered the terrestrial surface with very intelligent individuals. But 
from this happy period, and even, I suppose, during this period, there 
will be some families less intelligent and less provident than others. 
These will make the greatest additions to the population, and their num- 
bers constantly renewed will greatly aiiect the supposed progression of 
intelligence, to say nothing of other causes of arrest. 

Ill order to comprehend the probable facts in all their significance, 
and to connect them with the laws of selection, it is absolutely neces- 
sary, 1st, to attribute a major importance to the material circumstances, 
which must be manifested from the present time during several thou- 
sands of years j 2d, to apply the principle of the theory of Mr. Darwin to 
the human species. I call the principle of the theory the forced adap- 
tation of organized beings to surrounding circumstances of every kind, 
the result of which is that the modifications preserved are sometimes 
good, sometimes bad — that is, according to our human conception of 
what is good or bad. We may form an idea in regard to goodness and 
l)erfection, but the course of events may not be in accordance with this 
idea, since many obstacles may intervene during a series of several 
thousands of years. The world to-day is occupied by an infinite num- 
ber of vegetable and animal species, partially developed and imperfect, 
if the complication of organs and the division of functions can be con- 
sidered imperfections. These inferior beings are adapted to the cir- 
cumstances which now exist. They are better adapted to these circum- 
stances than others we call superior, and it will be so i^erhaps for an 
immense series of centuries. We may say the same of human races 
and families. The rudest are sometimes the best adapted to certain 
conditions. Thus, the negroes perfectly resist equatorial climates, and 
in our civilized countries there are debased populations which accom- 
modate themselves to miserable conditions of life such as others coidd 
not at all endure. 

If men content with little did not eSist, they would be formed by vari- 
ability and selection. We do not know to what extent frugality and 
indifference to comfort might be carried in the human race, if it were 
not for the intervention of police-regulations aud public opinion. Ac- 
cording to what has been related of Hindoo and Egyptian agriculturists, 
long-continued hardship produces a granivorous or frugivorous race, 
singularly economical and very fruitful. In our great cities of Europe, 
notwithstanding the severity of climate, we should find families estab- 
lished in damp, subterranean abodes, under bridges, even in sewers, aud 
adapting themselves to the conditions of existence by the premature 
death of the most feeble, if the will of other men did not interfere. Fur- 
thermore, coarse and immoral individuals are unfortunatelj' adapted to 
certain conditions of civilized countries, such as revolutions, robbery, 
unjust appropriation of property by needy legislators, wars without suf- 
ficient grounds, aggressive, &c., while other individuals are adapted to 
conditions moral, wise, just, &c., which at the same time exist. If at 



150 THE PROBABLE FUTURE OF THE HUMAN RACE. 

any time there should be more intelligeut, and consequently more prov- 
ident, men than now, there would also be among them, or in association 
with them, others less intelligent and less provident, who would appro- 
priate their goods and disregard their rights. Optimism is very seductive, 
since it has power to mislead even the uiost practical of men,* but it is not 
in conformity with the facts of the past nor the probable facts of the future. 
If we judge only from known and credible conditions, selection in a good 
sense affects the human race in a very doubtful, temporary, and slow 
way. It would then be a fallacy to construct, upon the basis of the 
modern ideas of naturalists, the theory of indefinite imjirovement, 
adopted by certain French philosophers of the last century. An atten- 
tive study of the works of Mr. Darwin allows no conclusion in this direc- 
tion, and the opinion of certain writers should be guarded against,t that 
the often-to-be-regretted tendency of the human species is an objection 
to the law of selection. 

*See the Utopia with which Mr. Biiehner ends his fourth lecture, (trad, pauc, p. 178.) 
t In Fraser's Magazine for September, 18G8, there is an article, not signed, but the 
author of which has been indicated by Mr. Darwin, (Descent of Man, I, p. 167,) entitled 
"Failure of natural selection in the case of man." The facts given by the author are, 
on the contrary, an exact and extended application of the law of selection. Mr. Dar- 
win has never believed that moral progress must be the necessary result of selection. 
(See Descent of Man, I, pp. 1G6, 177, and elsewhere.) 



REPORT ON THE TRAxNSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS 
AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA FROM JULY, LS7:3, TO 
JULY, 1874. 



Bv Tkof. M. a. de Candolle, Pkesidext. 



[Translated for the Smitbsoniau lustitntiou by M. A. Henry.] 

GENTLE3IEN : It is customary to divide tliis report into two parts, 
one appropriated to personal matters, and especially to the notice of the 
members deceased during the year, the other to the labors of the society. 
In this case the first part must unhappily be long, but in view of the 
serious losses sustained, you will find, I am sure, that I have not entered 
too much in detail. 

I. — NECEOLOGICAL NOTICES. 

We have this j'ear lost three of our ordinary members, Messrs. Alexan- 
dre Prevost, Gosse, and de la Eive, and four of our honorary members, 
Agassiz, liamon de la Sagra, Fee, and Quetelet. 

Alexandre-Pierre Prevost, doctor »f sciences, was grandson of the 
professor of philosophy and physicist, Pierre Prevost. He made good 
progress in his studies at Geneva, and comideted them by a sojourn at 
Berlin. The branch with which he was principally occupied in the lat- 
ter city was animal physiology. Certain circumstances, eas3^ to compre- 
hend, induced him to enter into a banking-house of considerable note 
in Loudon, which had for a long time been under the direction of his 
father and his uncles, but his health was affected by the climate of Eng- 
land, and after a few years he returned to Geneva. His scientific tastes 
then revived and were stimulated by the encouragement of his near 
relatives, and by his father-in-law, M. Auguste de la Rive. He published 
in the quarto Mcinoircs of our society (vol. xi) researches upon the ner- 
vous system of the head of the conger; in 1843 in the Bibllotluque Uni- 
rerse/Ze, and in 1859 in the Jl n7« res, which supplemented the scientihc part 
of the same journal, two memoirs upon binocular vision ; in the Archives of 
the same year, 1859, an essay upon the mathematical theory of music, not 
to speak of numerous articles, such as reviews or criticisms in this journal, 
of which he was one of the editors. Alexandre Prevost served our 
society for a long time as secretary, and was always explicit and exact 
in the conscientious discharge of the duties of the office. He died on 
the 21st of July, 1873, in England, after a long illness, at the age of 
only fifty- two years. 

Dr. Andre-Louis Gossc was son of Henry-Albert Gosse, that savant, so 
full of enthusiasm and originalitv, who, with the founders of the Helvetic 

101 



152 TEANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

Society of Natural Sciences, in 1815 coDceived first the idea of forming 
a scientific society which should meet, like the British Association, in a 
different place every year* Andre-Louis Gosse inherited many of the 
good qualities of his father. He, like him, displayed throughout his life 
an extraordinary zeal for the good of his fellow-men. His studies, his 
travels, his medical practice, his conversation, his writings, were inspired 
by this feeling ; and no one could converse with him and not be affected 
by the influence of his generous sentiments. While he was still a stu- 
dent at Paris, and soon after, in 181C, a young practitioner, his courage 
was put to the test in the hospital at Geneva, where several physi- 
cians had died of a severe typhus fever introduced by the armies. On 
the return of peace, wishing to obtain a knowledge of the clinics of Italy, 
Germany, and England, and also to gain more experience of life, he 
traveled for three years always in a private carriage, on horseback, or 
on foot. In these expeditions he carried his observations into all classes 
of society, and even submitted to serious i)rivatious in order to gain the 
confidence of the miserable peasants of some of the countries he visited. 
While in Edinburgh he made known to the medical corps of that city a 
double-current catheter of his invention, which since, tlirough mistake, 
has been attributed to Jules Cloquet. On his return home, and having 
acquired a satisfactory practice, Gosse was seized with the enthusiasm 
then manifested in Geneva in favor of the indepeudence of Greece. He 
offered his services gratuitously to the committee of arrangements, and 
started at the most critical moment in the history of the contest to lend 
his aid and assistance in the organization for the supply of ambulances 
and military hospitals. The energy he displayed was of great value to 
this unfortunate country — the seat of war, of pestilence, and moral dis- 
order. 

This work completed, he had entered again, not without difficultj^, 
into the practice of medicine, when another occasion of self-devotion 
was presented to him. The Swiss federal authorities were alarmed by 
the invasion of the north of Europe by cholera. This was in 1831, 
the time of the first prevalence of the epidemic, and very little was 
known of this mysterious and frightful disease. Gosse volunteered to 
study it from actual observation, and completed the undertaking ^^ sans 
inur ct mm rcprochey His knowl(Mlge thus acquired was not, however, 
practically applied, for Switzerland never became a i)rey to the true 
cholera epidemic. After such examples of courage and self-abnegation 
it is hardly necessary to add that Gosse never recoiled from any duty, 
either as citizen or physician. He also manifested great zeal in the 
gratuitous care of the poor, in diminishing drunkenness, in ameliorating 
the condition of prisons, as well as in acting as mediator, although 
without success, in the unhappy political divisions of the country. 

* The Germau Society of Naturalists aud Pliysiciaus was instituted iu imitation of 
the Swiss society. The British Association, the Society of the Scienzati, of Italj-, and 
others of a simihir character, were formed hitor. 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 153 

Dr. Gosse published a volume upou the diseases he called, in a gen- 
eral way, '''■Ehumatoides ;''' another entitled "Medical and Philosophical 
Examination of the Penitentiary System ;" an account of the pestilence 
which reigned in Greece in 1827 and 1828; a monograph of the valuable 
shrub called Eryihroxylon Coca, and a number of articles or i^amphlets 
upon the recjime of prisons, quarantines, economical fermented drinks, 
Turkish baths, various questions of hygiene, the deformations of the 
skull practiced among certain nations, ancient and modern, and other 
subjects of anthropology. His activity expended itself upon a great 
number of subjects, either of immediate practical utility or of theory. 
Any ill eflects of this discursiveness were obviated by a peculiar power 
he had of being completely absorbed, for a time, by each subject. 
The various questions which engaged his attention were not mingled in 
his mind; they succeeded each other, and, when pre-occupied with an 
idea, he pursued it with indefatigable ardor. This is not the system of 
the constant application of specialists to a single branch, nor is it that of 
the dili'usion of force upon several simultaneous studies which so rarely 
produces good effects. The activity of our honorable colleague was 
continued until the age of eighty-two years. He died in the tuU pos- 
session of his faculties on the 21th of October, 1873. 

In a scientific point of view the greatest loss we have experienced this 
year has been that of our illustrious president, Auguste de la Eive. 
His place cannot be supplied among us, for his influence was due to 
many very varied conditions which are seldom found united : superior 
intelligence, a decisive and controlling will, a benevolent disposition, an 
ardent desire to enlighten and direct, and a peculiarly advantageous 
social position and relations, both within and without the country, Such 
a combination explains why in our reunions he was so frequently what 
the English call a leader. 

Born at Geneva, on the 4th of October, 1801, De la Eive pursued his 
studies in the old academy. Before the law of 1825, the instruction in 
that institution was very incomplete. The young men desirous to learn 
were themselves obliged to supply deficiencies; but does not a man, if 
he wishes to do so, find in himself a good master"? De la liive had, 
moreover, in his family an inappreciable advantage. His father,* a man 
of intelligence and originality, had a great love for chemistry. He 
taught it voluntarily, although a member of the higher administration 
of the country. In his laboratory or in his parlor were constantly found 
distinguished savans whose conversation' was well calculated to excite 
the zeal of a young man : Berzelius, Davy, Faraday, Ampere, Arago, 
without mentioning the illustrious men of Geneva, S[)oken of by our 
colleague in so interesting a manner in his notice of Augustus Pyramus 
de Candolle. To learn the results of their labors, to hear their discus- 

* Gaspard de la Rive, syndic, doctor aud professor. See his biography by Vaucher, 
liibJiolkeque UniverseUe, Maich, 1^34. 



154 TRANSACTIOISS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

sious, and realize early that a man devoted to science is not an exceptional 
beiug, but that any one may enter into the pursuit of knowledge with- 
out necessarily considering himself a genins, was the highest kind of 
teaching, was a stimulus both intellectual and moral. 

Augnste de la Rive profited so well by his advantages that at the age 
of twenty-three years he was able to present himself as a candidate for 
a situation as professor of physics, which had just been created, and ob- 
tained it, after i)assing through the preliminary competition for it with 
distinction. This was a fortunate circumstance for him. Without this 
nomination, which attached him definitely to one branch of science, he 
might perhaps have allowed himself to be diverted into many direc- 
tions. He was much interested in politics, local and general. He would 
have been solicited to enter the administration, and would i)robably 
have consented. Thanks to his election he concentrated his activity 
npon the teaching and the development of a i:)articular science. He oc- 
cupied himself very actively with the organization and direction of pub- 
lic instruction. As rector of the academy, and professor, he exercised 
over his colleagues and the youth under his care a very important influ- 
ence. Politics, properly so called, became in his life only a secondary 
interest. Once only his tastes in this direction attained ascendency over 
him, when, on account of extreme distress, in my opinion legitimate, 
caused by a revolution, he resigned his ofiQce of professor in order to 
tender his services to his country, although all his colleagues, as well 
as the ecclesiastics and judges, less influenced by political ideas, con 
sidered themselves quite independent of all vicissitudes of public order 
De la Eive then accepted a temporary mission for Switzerland to the 
English government, and the charge, also temporary, of deputy to a 
constituent assembly. This was, however, but an episode. We may 
say that above all else his time and heart were consecrated to science, 
his friends, and his family. Working during the morning in his labora- 
tory, he afterward exercised a liberal hospitality either at his country- 
residence, Presingc, or at his house in Geneva. Notwithstanding the 
interest these details must have for those who knew De la Eive, I must 
return to what constituted his claim to renown, his scientific labors. 
These were already worthy of attention during the years 1824 to 1828, 
before he had especially directed his researches to the subject of elec- 
tricity. 

We all know how deep and unalterable was the friendship which existed 
between Auguste de la Rive and our colleague, Francois Marcet. These 
two friends made in company during the years I have mentioned several 
journeys to Paris and London, and in the intervals occupied themselves 
with scientific labors. Their investigations in regard to the specific heat 
of gases were important, since the subsequent experiments of Regnault 

* ileiuoiri'S de la Socit^te de physique et d'histoire naturelle de Geueve, vol. vi, p. 
503. 

tM^moires de la Soc.de phys. et d'bist. uat (1, p. 70,) et Bibl. nuiv He. et Arts, 
vol. sxxix, p. 'i06. 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 



155 



have confirmed tbeiii, only rendering tbem somewhat more exact. Then 
followed their work upon the increase of temperature in the artesian wells 
of Preguy. It was known that heat increased with depth in the excava- 
tions of mines, but the observations of Augaste de la Kiveand Marcet 
gave the progression of temperature to 050 feet, in a determined locality. 
I had the satisfaction at this time to make a series of experiments with 
De la Eive upon the conductibility of heat in different woods. We estab- 
lished a fact which finds application in vegetable physiology, namely, 
that heat passes less easily in the transversal than in the longitudinal 
direction of the fibers. While mentioning this investigation 1 cannot 
resist the pleasure of dwelling upon the extreme modesty and amiability 
of De la Rive as a collaborator. jSTotwithstanding his great talent, he 
announced his opinions and accepted those of others with a charming 
simplicity and absence of self-assertion. As he appeared to me in his 
youth, so he continued even to the close of his life, when, weary and ill, 
he made with our young secretary, M. Edouard Sarasin, some original 
researches upon electricity in rarefied gases. 

Ampere and Faraday did much to excite De la Rive to the study of 
electrical phenomena ; but from the constitution of his mind I am 
induced to believe that the desire to establish firmly an important law, 
namely, that chemical phenomena are the source of electricity, was tlie 
principal motive which led him in this direction. How he succeeded in 
establishing this law, what ingenious contrivances he invented to prove 
it, and the multiplied consequences he deduced from his experiments, I 
cannot as a naturalist, and unacquainted with the details of physics, 
adequately describe. One of our colleagues, much better quahfied, will 
refer to them particularly in an article upon De la Rive, which will be 
inserted in the Archives des Sciences. I have read a few pages of this 
article, and although the publication of it may not be entire, the follow- 
ing paragraphs will undoubtedly be retained, at least in their general 
import : 

" In a long series of memoirs, De la Rive has passed in review most of 
the properties of the pile, and the effects produced by currents, con- 
tributing thus in a great degree to determine the laws and to throw 
light upon these complex phenomena, which were still very little under- 
stood at the beginning of the century. 

" In the course of these great researches, the subject which most 
attracted his interest and efforts was the chemical theory of the pile. 
The cause of the disengagement of electricity in this apparatus had 
been attributed by its illustrious inventor to the contact of the two dif- 
ferent metals which form an essential part of it. The chemical action 
exercised by the liquids upon the metals, was considered by Volta and 
his i)artisans as an accessory phenomenon, hardly as an effect of the 
current. But in i)roportion as the numerous relations of electricity and 
chemical actions were more and more exposed, the opposite theory com- 
menced to gain ground. De la Rive for manv veais was one of its most 



156 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

ardeut cbampious, deuyiug that the contact of two different substances 
could alone produce a disengagement of electricity without chemical 
calorific or mechanical action. To-day, when the dynamic theory of 
heat is universally adopted, this question in all its important points 
may be considered as resolved in favor of the view De la Rive sought to 
maintain. The motive force in the galvanic pile is incontestably the 
chemical action, and the sum of the work produced under various forms 
in the circuit is equivalent to the total amount of heat which this chem- 
ical action can disengage. If the contact of the metals, or of the metals 
and the liquids, has some influence — a fact still disputed — this acts as a 
mechanism for transformation of the force, but is incapable of creating 
the force itself." 

" De la Rive reviewed his investigations and views in regard to this 
branch of science in the Traite cTUlectricite, theorique et appliqiiee, which 
he published both in English and French from 1853 to 1858. This ad- 
mirable work did not end his productive labors in this direction, and 
among the researches undertaken since that time w^e may mention his 
experiments upon the sounds produced by the combined action of cur- 
rents and magnets, his investigations in regard to the magnetic-rotatory 
polarization, and his works upon the passage of currents through rare- 
fied gas. The latter led to his theory of the aurora borealis, which, when 
he announced it, was coolly received ; but every day gains new par- 
tisans." 

The researches upon electricity of our learned member seemed rather 
theoretical than practical ; but we know that the most varied applica- 
tions, and often the most important, may unexpectedly proceed from the 
most abstract scientific principle. De la Rive invented incidentally, 
while engaged in bis investigations, the application of the galvanic pile 
to electrical gilding. He received for this the sum of 3,000 francs from 
the Academy of Sciences of Paris, and with the revenue of this amount, 
which he gave to the Society of Arts of Geneva, a prize is offered every 
five years for the scientific discovery most useful to Genevese industry. 

For some years the memoirs of Auguste de la Rive upon electricity, 
and those sent him upon the same subject, were so numerous as to 
necessitate the appropriation of an entire journal to them alone. The 
Archives des sciences physiques et natureUes supplied this need. This pub- 
lication, which constituted the scientific part of the Bibliothcque univer- 
selle, was for a time, as well as the latter journal, immediately dependent 
upon De la Rive, but he always endeavored to include the assistance of 
his friends in its preparation. It is evident from the number of articles 
upon all branches of science, that he never interfered with the freedom 
or direction of thought. On the contrary, he was glad to collect good 
observations upon all subjects. His great intellectual capacity, as broad 
as it was deep, readily accepted ideas the most varied in character, in 
the moral and political, as well as in the physical and natural sciences, 
while he still retained unimpaired interest in the especial object of his 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 157 

labors. Although he exercised the lull powers of his miud in the prep- 
aration of his memoirs, yet the most complex questions were appar- 
ently to him very simple. He seemed to treat the varied and compli- 
cated matters of government and science which engaged his thoughts 
very much as an accomplished chess-player carries on several games at 
once without seeming to regard any one of them with especial attention. 
Even the most powerful organization of the nervous system must in 
time give way, and with l)e la Eive the physical force was not equal to 
the intellectual requirement. Great energy is exhausting when old age 
prevents the regular renovation of the faculties. De la Eive expe- 
rienced a slight attack of ])aralysis in the spring of last year, and 
in the autumn when he intended to go to the south of France for 
the improvement of his health he was seized with a second attack, much 
more severe, of which he died at Marseilles, on the 27th of November, 
1873, aged seventy-two years. Today, then, remains to us only the 
memory of this beautiful life, and an example well worthy of regard. 

After De la Eive to mention Agassiz, his associate in all the scientific 
societies, and in the list of the eight foreign associates of the Academy 
of Sciences of Paris, seems but a natural transition. The life of this 
savant is full of interest, but in speaking of it as I should I encounter 
a peculiar difficulty. For thirty years the journals of every country have 
never lost sight of Agassiz. When in the midst of his career an excel- 
lent notice was published of him, and hardly had he closed his eyes 
when innumerable journals, American and European, contained detailed 
necrological articles concerning him. To extract from these, comment 
upon them, and complete them would require a volume. I will confine 
myself, then, to a few general observations, adding only some authentic 
details upon a point forgotten or generally unknown, but which is of 
considerable importance, both as regards Agassiz and the history of the 
scientific development of Switzerland. I speak of the causes which 
determined the learned naturalist to fix bis abode in the city of Neu- 
chatel rather than in Germany or at Paris. 

Louis-Jean-Rudolphe Agassiz was born on the 28th of May, 1807. 
His father was a Protestant clergyman who resided then at Mot- 
tier, canton of Friburg, and afterward established himself at Concise, 
not far from i^Teuchatel. He manifested, it is said, from his infanc^^, 
an enthusiasm for natural history, and especially for the study of the 
habits of the fish of our lakes, an indication of his future tastes. He 
passed through the gymnasium of Bienne, and afterward the academic 
course of Lausanne. Having a great desire to engage in the pursuit of 
science, he obtained from his father permission tostudy surgery, which he 
did successfully at Zurich, Heidelberg, and Munich. It was in the latter 
city he received his diploma of doctor. As he had prepared an article 
upon fresh-water fishes, M. de Martins then proposed to him to under- 
take the description of the fishes of Brazil, which his traveling compan- 
ion Spix, prematurely deceased, had hardly commenced. This was a 



158 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

great bonor for a young man of twenty-one years. Soon Agassiz turned 
bis attention to fossil fisbes, tbe field of bis principal discoveries. For 
bis studies in tbis direction be felt tbe need of examining larger collec- 
tions tban bad yet come in bis way, and for tbis end, and also to perfect 
bis medical education, be visited Vienna and Paris. 

In tbe latter capital be made tbe acquaintance of Cuvier, and also of 
Humboldt, wbo was always ready to countenance and encourage young 
students, and was, at tbe same time, mucb interested in Neucbatel, of 
wbicb tbe King of Prussia was prince and in some sort suzerain. I 
bave bad tbe pleasure of reading several letters addressed by Agassiz 
and Humboldt to M. Louis Coulou, of Neucbatel. Witb tbe permission 
of tbis bonorable gentleman I will give a few extracts. We will see from 
tbese tbat Switzerland was indebted to bim for tbe establisbment of 
Agassiz witbiu ber borders for fourteen years, a circumstance wbicb bad 
an important influence, not only upon bis own labors, but also tbose of 
bis compatriots. M. Louis Coulon was assisted in attaining tbis end by 
bis fatber, a mercbant of long standing, a generous friend of science, 
wbo bas given important collections to tbe city of Neucbatel. 

Agassiz to M. Louis Coulon. 

" CoPEAU Steeet No. 4, Paris, 31arch 27, 1832. 

* * * "I bave bad tbe good fortune, I will not say to merit, but 
to win tbe good-will of M. Cuvier, wbo bas placed at my disposal all 
tbe objects I wisbed to examine. He bas extended to me a generosity far 
beyond wbat a young man of my age ougbt to expect, wbo bas as yet 
done but little for science. You bave seen tbe materials I bave collected 
for tbe bistory of fossil fisbes; you know also tbat on my departure for 
Paris I was afraid I would not be able to examine tbe specimens in tbe 
museum witb all tbe freedom I desired, and I felt all tbe more sure of 
sucb restriction because M. Cuvier bad announced a work upon tbis 
important subject, wbicb be proposed to publisb as soon as be bad fiu- 
isbed bis great bistory of fisbes. M. Cuvier, bowever, not only allowed 
me to describe, compare, and draw^ from all tbe skeletons of existing 
fisbes and all tbe fossils wbicb are disposed in tbe galleries, but placed 
in my bands all tbe material be bad bimself collected for bis own work, 
and even all tbe drawings be bad ordered to be made at tbe Britisb 
Museum and elsew^bere ; and, baving otber important matters to occupy 
bis attention after tbe completion of bis work on tbe living fisbes, and 
considering tbat I would acquit myself sufQciently well in tbe task I 
had undertaken with the fossils, left me to fill up tbis gap alone. You 
may imagine bow such encouragement inspires my zeal, and witb what 
ardor 1 pursue my work, Tbis is one of tbe reasons why I refuse to 
see any one here, in order that my mind may not be distracted. 

* * * " Wbenin tbe courseoflastsummerl bad tbe pleasureof see- 
ing you I several times expressed to you my great desire to be settled near 
you, and my intention to endeavor to obtain the chair of natural history 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 159 

you are about to establish iu your lyceum. Your affairs must be in a 
more advanced state now than last year, and I would be greatly obliged 
if you would give me some information concerning them. I bave commu- 
nicated my projects to M. de Humboldt, whom I see frequently, who 
shows great interest in me, and aids me with his good counsel. 

* * * u ju jjjy different journeys, through my relations and through, 
exchanges I have made a very pretty collection of n atural history , especially 
rich in the classes with which your museum is the least furnished, and 
which can fill the gaps iu the collections in the city of iS"euchiitel and ren- 
der them more than suflicient for a complete course of natural history. 
I have also thought you might include in the plan you propose to adopt 
for the lyceum the increase of your zoiilogical collections, and, if so, I 
dare to think mine would amply fulfill the end you wish to attain. If 
this should be the case I offer it to you. The expense of arranging it, 
of providing a place for it, and of its support is beyond my means, and I 
must endeavor to dispose of it, although it will cost me much to part 
from these companions of study, with which I have made almost all my 
researches. I have also spoken of this project to M. de Humboldt, who is 
much interested iu the matter, and will, if this transfer takes place, make 
all the necessary arrangements with the government. You will do me 
a great service, then, if you will give me your opinion in the matter, and 
tell me, 1st, upon whom depends the nomination for the chair of natural 
history ; 2d, upon whom will depend the purchase of my collection ; 3d, 
what you think I will have to do to accomplish these two objects. You 
may imagine I do not wish to give up my collections unless I have the 
prospect of being so situated as to be able to consult them freely." 

At this time M. de Humboldt delicately remitted to his young friend 
the sum necessary to continue his sojourn at Paris, and M. Louis Cou- 
lon, on his pavt, obtained the creation of a chair of natural history for 
the college of IS'euchatel. Iu the meanwhile a very sad event occurred. 
Cuvier died of an attack of cholera, on the 13th of May, 1832. 

Here is a second letter from Agassiz to M. L. Coulon : 

" Paris, June 1, 1832. 
" Sir : I have received with much pleasure your interesting letter, 
and hasten to reply to it. What you have written gives me the more 
pleasure, that I see in it the immediate prospect of establishing myself 
near you, and of being able to consecrate to my country the fruit of my 
labors. It is true, as you suppose, that the death of M. Cuvier has 
sensibly changed my prospects ; for example, that I can, for the contin- 
uation of my work upon fishes, associate myself with M. Valenciennes, 
who made me a proposal to that effect, the day after the arrival of your 
letter, when I confided to him my projects ; the conditions offered me 
are very tempting, but I am too little French in character, and I am too 
desirous to establish myself in Switzerland, not to prefer the place you 
can give me, and to be as little as possible influenced by the salary 
which would be attached to it. I cannot refuse, without cousidera- 



160 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

tioii, ofifers us biilliaut as those raade me, bat 1 know how in many ways 
to defend myself from their attractions. You must know me well 
enough from past experience to be persuaded that 1 would not hold a 
lucrative position through personal interests ; that far from this I would 
always sacrifice to the advancement of the establishment which would 
be confided to me, all the means at my disposal." 

M. Coulon succeeded in guaranteeing 80 louis ($300) annually, lor 
three years, to the future professor. The larger part of this sum came 
from voluntary subscriptions, the rest from the city. Soon after the 
collections of Agassiz were purchased for 500 louis, ($1,900,) of which 
the city paid one third, the Prince a second third, and M. Louis de 
Pourtales completed the amount. This sum allowed Agassiz to com- 
mence the publication of his history of fossil fishes. He employed 
draughtsmen, and as he at the same time commenced or continued several 
other works, he associated himself for some of them with M. Desor, and 
afterward with M. Charles Yogt. The discoveries of Venetz and of 
Charpeutier upon the ancient extension of the glaciers then attracted 
his attention. The group of scientists engaged in these interesting in- 
vestigations, of which Agassiz was the center, made frequent excursions 
to the glacier of the Aar, where their encampment, called the hotel des 
Neiichdtelois, is still celebrated. This was the occupation of the summer. 
During the winter drawings and publications advanced rapidly, thanks, 
we ought to say, in good part, to the gifts of several distinguished citizens 
and of the government of i^euchatel. The latter were promoted by 
King Frederick William, at the suggestion of Humboldt. This illustrious 
savant wrote to M. L. Coulon, at the time of the nomination of Agassiz, 
the following letter, which has never been published : 

M. de Humholt to 21. Louis Coulon. 

"It is not a request that I address to you, sir, but the expression of 
my sincere gratitude for your noble and generous conduct in regard to 
a young savant, JVl. Agassiz, well worthy of your encouragement and the 
protection of your enlightened government, on account of his talent, the 
variety and solidity of his attainments, and what adds to the value of 
these, especially in the agitated times in which we live, the amiable 
gentleness of his character. I have known for many years, particularly 
through our common friend M. de Buch, that you pursue the study of nat- 
ural history with a success equaled only by your zeal; that you have 
formed fine collections, which you allow others to enjoy with the most 
generous freedom. It is pleasant to me to see your benevolence directed 
toward a young man who is dear to me, whose loss from among us we 
shall always regret, and whom the illustrious Cuvier would have recom- 
mended to you with like affectionate ardor on account of the excellent 
works he has nearly completed. It is a great and noble thought, that 
of calming minds too exclusively occupied with political ideas or Uto- 
pian dreams by offering them in the study of nature, and of the 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 1^1 

sciences whicli most immediately affect tlie industrial resources of the 
people, a salutary diversion. The respectable gentlemen who honor 
your council of state in this way acquire new right to public esteem. 
Gentle and industrious habits, great sagacity, and naturally happy 
dispositions, even in the lower classes, have up to this timeeminently con- 
tributed to the prosperity of your beautiful country. Education adds 
to labor, but education in harmony with the needs of a century which 
does not retrograde, musr lead to that union of order and public liberty 
which for centuries has characterized your community. I earnestly 
advised M. Agassiz not to accept the offers which after the death of M. 
Cuvier were made to him at Paris, and his resolution anticipated my 
counsel. What a happy thing it would be for him and for the completion 
of the two excellent works in which he is engaged, if he could at once, 
this year even, be installed upon the borders of your lake. I have no 
doubt of the protection that would be accorded to him by your worthy 
governor,* to whom I shall repeat this suggestion, and who has honored 
both myself and my brother with a friendship I highly prize. M. 
Leopold de Buch, who is interested almost as much as myself in the 
destiny of M. Agassiz, and in his work upon fossil fishes, (the most 
important yet undertaken, and equally exact in regard to the zoological 
characteristics and those of the formations,) promised me, on leaving 
Berlin for Bonn and Vienna, to mention the matter to him. 

"Accept the expression of the distinguished consideration with which 
I have the honor to be your very humble and obedient servant, 

"AL. DE HUMBOLDT. 

" Potsdam, Juhj 25, 1832." 

Agassiz took part in 1833 in the foundation of the Society of Natural 
Sciences of Neuchatel, of which he was the first secretary. We remem- 
ber his participation in the operations of the Swiss Society of Natural 
Sciences, and his famous discourse at the opening in 1837, when ho 
announced his theory of the glacial period, to the great indignation of 
Leopold de Buch. In 1840 Agassiz visited Great Britain, where he 
pointed out to the geologists of that country evident traces of ancient 
glaciers. It was from England he sailed in 184G for the United States, at 
the expense of King Frederick William, with the intention merely of 
making a visit. The interest of his first explorations, the repugnance 
he felt for the jiolitical revolutions of the old world, and, finally, the 
generous and warm rece[)tion of the xVmeiicans, induced him to pro- 
long his stay, lie a(;cei)ted a i)lace as professor, and saw develop, littie 
by little, that brilliant career of scientilic pro[)agaiidism, of the creation 
of museums, of expeditions along the coasts of America to the region 
of the river of the Amazon, and to California, which attracted to him 
public attention, and which won for him enormous donations fron» 
wealthy Americans to the profit of his labors and of the establishments he 

* Rffciriiif; to M. (Ic riiilil. 

S. Mis. 115 11 



162 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

directed. If at the time when Agassiz was a poor student he dreamed 
of an Eldorado suited to his desires, his dream was realized more than 
once toward the end of his life. 

Agassiz could teach in three languages with equal grace and facility. 
He was the partisan of no particular school. Science was to him neither 
German, French, nor English, but of all countries. He excelled in the 
examination of details, and in the comparison of forms. I cannot say 
that he was equally sui)erior in the principles of natural classification 
and in theoretic deductions. It may be considered at the least singular 
that the author of the immense discovery of a parallelism between the 
successive forms of the embryo of a fish, and the successive forms of 
the class of fishes in general in geological times should persistently deny 
all evolution in the two kingdoms. However, other naturalists of great 
distinction, formed as Agassiz by practical investigations, have adopted 
debatable theories, and I doubt, for example, whether it would be possible 
to reduce several of the hypotheses of Linnseus to the rigorous form of 
the syllogism. 

One peculiar circumstance in the life of Agassiz is, that he never ac- 
cepted any position or desired to live in a great city. We have seen 
that he preferred Neuchatel to Paris. He had no greater inclination 
for Berlin and London, where friends and even powerful patrons would 
have drawn him. He probably felt within him an inward activity which 
did not require the excitement of great cities, and we know that he 
absolutely avoided going out of his specialty. He died in a modest 
habitation, near Harvard University, on the 18th of December, 
1873, from a rapid prostration of the nervous system. His obsequies 
were attended by an immense assembly. The feeling caused by the 
death of this man was so general among the people of Boston, that, 
although he had never taken part in politics, the flags of all the public 
edifices of the city were lowered in token of grief. 

Donations by thousands of dollars as a testimonial still continue in 
favor of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the favorite work of 
Agassiz. On the 2Gth of June the subscription amounted to $120,000. 
The learned American, to whom I owe this information, thought that 
this sum was not suCQcient. In Europe we would consider it munificent. 
Already during the year 1873 the establishment had received from 
various donors $156,000. Among these contributors, Agassiz had the 
pleasure of counting one of his best pupils, his only son, whom fortune 
had favored, and who, making a good use of the wealth he had acquired, 
gave $4G,0U0. It is he, Alexander Agassiz, the author of the remark- 
able work upon Echinoids, who has now the direction of the museum, 
and we have no doubt that he will acquit himself of the charge with 
great advantage to science. 

Don Eamon de la Sagra, a Spaniard by birth,* was established in his 
youth at Havana, where he gave much attention and labor to the develop- 

* Born at Corunua on the 7th of December, 1801. 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 163 

incut of agricultnro, public instruction, and all the institutions which 
churacterizo civilized countries. While director in that city of a botan- 
ical and agricultural establishment, he caused large collections to be 
made of the plants of the island of Cuba, and generously distributed them 
among the botanists who could describe them. Augustin Pyramus de 
Candolle was one of the most favored in this respect, and the name of 
Kamon de la Sagra is frequently cited in the Prodromits. Notwith- 
standing the uncertainty of everything in Spain and its colonies, Ea- 
mon de la Sagra succeeded in collecting very valuable and varied ma- 
terials, which he has introduced into divers works upon the statistics 
of the island, and particularly in his principal publication, wliich con- 
sists of several volumes in folio, LUIistoria Jisica, 'poliUca y natural de 
la isla dc Cuba. His tables of statistics are not altogether satisfactory 
in regard to the nature of the population, and the administrative author- 
ities of the country, but the volumes on natural history, which have been 
prepared by competent authorities, are highly esteemed. They testify 
throughout to the scientific zeal of the savant who collected the material 
for them, and the liberality of the Spanish government, which paid the 
cost of publication. 

Eamou de la Sagra traveled in the United States, Holland, and other 
countries where scholastic institutions and public utility in general 
were the objects of his attention. He published several articles upon 
these subjects, as well as upon political economy. The Academy of 
Sciences nominated him correspondent. 

Unhappily, the favorable disposition of the court of Madrid toward 
Eamon de la Sagra did not continue. It seems that an article by him, 
in a very obscure French journal, in which he declared that the Spanish 
government would do well to emancipate the slaves of the island of 
Cuba, was the cause of a disgrace carried to such an extent that Queen 
Isabella withdrew the pension which was the only resource of the au- 
thor. He petitioned for its renewal, in view of his advanced age, but 
in vain. This was in 18G7. From that time his condition was deserv- 
ing of pity. He ended his days at Cortaillod, near Neuchatel, on the 
25th of May, 1871. Some of his friends in that city have placed a sim- 
ple monument upon his grave. 

The senior of our honorary members, Antoine-Laurent-Apollinaire 
Fde, died in his eighty-fifth year, at Paris, on the 21st of May, 1874. 

In botany, he was known principally by his memoirs, in folio and 
in quarto, ou the family of Ferns; by his essay upon Cryptogams, 
with exotic medicinal barks, (one volume in 4";) and by some 
ingenious researches in regard to the plants that Theocritus, Virgil, 
and Pliny speak of in their writings. For many years he was stationed 
at Strasburg, as professor and director of the botanic garden, but the 
terrible events of the war of 1870 obliged him to leave the beseiged 
city after several weeks of great suffering. A bombshell entered his 
library; his garden, the object of his especial attention, was converted 



164 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

into a temporary cemetery ; so that when the Swiss federal government 
gave permission to the old men, the women, and children to leave, 
he gladly availed himself of it, and he arrived in Geneva, greatly 
impaired in health in spite of a remarkably robust constitution. He 
was, moreover, much distressed in mind, for he belonged to an old 
French family, in whom sentiments of patriotism were very strongly 
implanted. In regard to his personal interests, which were much com- 
promised, he manifested much more resignation than for the disasters 
of his country. We had the pleasure of seeing him sometimes at our 
sessions. Afterward when he had secured his pension as professor 
and military pharmaceutist of the first class, he went to Paris, and 
settled near a portion of his family. The botanical society of France 
nominated him president, but death found him in the midst of his books 
of botany and literature. 

F6e commenced his career as pharmaceutist, attached to the French 
army in Spain during the great war. We may imagine that he was 
subjected to great hardships; but he was young, vigorous, well in- 
structed, and, amid all the distractions of war, of marches and counter- 
marches, he never neglected an opportunity of botauising, and also 
of making himself master of the beautiful language of Spain, which he 
cultivated to the end of his days. A small volume published by him 
gives an agreeable account of this campaign, and was completed by 
another containing the dcvscription of a journey, taken fifty years later 
over the grounds of his former adventures. 

Several of the articles of M. Fee upon literary or moral subjects or 
upon popular botany are remarkably correct in style, and we have 
always been impressed with the purity of his diction. 

Jacques- AdolpheLambert Quetelet, director of the Royal Observatory 
of Brussels, perpetual secretary of the Academy of Science, Letters, and 
Artof Belgium, hasfurnished an esampleof ascientificcareerremarkably 
long, active, and varied. Born at Ghent, on the 22d of February, 179G, he 
taught mathematics in the college of that city, at the early age of eighteen 
years. Becoming, five years later, professor at the Atheiiseum of Brussels, 
he continued to labor and publish the results of his efibrts in the domain 
of mathematical and i)hysical science or of statistics, until he was seventy- 
eight years of age. He died on the 17th of February, 1874. Never was 
there a correspondent more scrui)ulous in replying to the communica- 
tions made to him, and his liberality in the exchange of publications 
has been often noticed, both in our society and elsewhere. 

Quetelet published the Eleinents Gastronomic (2 vol. in 18mo, second edi- 
tion, 1848,) a volume, 8ur laphysiqne du globe, (in 4°, 18GI,) several articles 
upon i)robabilities, and the journal entitled Correspondence maihematique 
et physique, (11 vols, in 8°, 1825-'39.) He made at the observatory at 
Brussels a series of very important observations u[)on the temperature of 
the ground at different depths, and has given us the results of meteoro- 
logical observations made with great care. He was one of the first to 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 105 

study atmos])lieiic waves, the knowledge of which is necessary to fore- 
tell the weather. lie inaugurated a series of uniform observations in 
numerous localities upon tlie times of foliation, lloweriug, and matur- 
ing- of a great number of vegetables, and in general upon the periodi- 
cal phenomena of vegetable or animal life. The study of mathematics 
led him to introduce the statistical method into many branches of 
knowledge, and also to perfect this method. He diffused just ideas in 
regard to averages, and insisted more than had yet been done upon 
their ordinary constancy, even in social i)henomena, a constancy the 
origin of which is easy to comprehend if we reflect upon the diversity 
of the causes which are almost always in action, and the slight proba- 
bility that they will change from one year to another. If Belgium has 
published statistical documents more extended and better co ordinated 
than those of other states, she owes this principally to the fact of hav- 
ing had M. Quetelet for president of the commission of statistics. Until 
the close of his life, he collected and published data upon the physical 
and moral conditions of man, under the head of social physics. These 
were highly appreciated by the Academy of Moral and Political Science 
of the Institute of France, which made him first correspondent and 
then foreign associate. M. Quetelet, furthermore, was a member of all 
the scientific academies and societies of any importance, and, without 
having traveled much, was known everywhere as the friend of science. 

During the year lS7;j-'74 the societ}- received, as resident member, 
Dr. Adolphe d'Espine, and at the same time elected, as honorary mem- 
bers, Dr. Francis Forel, of Morges, professor at the Academy of Lau- 
sanne, (who has made some interesting communications,) and M. 
Poggendorff. In nominating this latter well-known physicist, of an 
advanced age, we wished to associate ourselves with the manifestation 
made at Berlin by a great number of savans and of societies, upon the 
occasion of the fiftieth year of the doctorate of the editor of the Annalen 
dcr Fhysilc unci Gliemie. 

J*rof. Emile Plantamour was appointed president for the year 1874:-'75, 
and the other officers of the society were continued, with thanks for 
the services they had rendered. 

II. — LABORS OF THE SOCIETY. 

Astronomy. — Colonel Gautier communicated to us the result of 227 
observations made by him upon the contour of the solar disk, by means 
of a direct-vision spectroscope, by Hoffman, similar to that of M. 
liespighi at Home. M. Gautier classes the phenomena into eruptions, 
exhalations, and detached formations. The details he gives, and the 
deductions he draws in regard to the i)robable nature of the phenomena, 
deserve to be studied in the memoir itself, which, accompanied by two 
plates, is published in the Archives of Physical and Natural Science, 
for March, 1874. 

Fhysics. — Mr. Fol submitted to the society the plan of a manometer, 



166 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

designed especially for sea-soundings of great depth. This instrument 
consists essentially of two spherical reservoirs, superposed and con- 
nected by a capillary tube. The upper reservoir should be closed and 
entirely filled with a compressible liquid, for example alcohol ; the other, 
which has an opening in the upper part, must be full of mercury, which 
ought also to fill the capillary tube. The quantity of mercury which 
will pass from the second reservoir into the first when the apparatus is 
submitted to pressure will give the measure of this pressure, and con- 
sequently of the height of the column of water, or, in other words, of it& 
depth. 

M. Archard described a manometer of precision, of his invention, con- 
sisting of two liquids, water and petroleum. His memoir, accompanied 
with a plate, was published in the Archives of Physical and Natural 
Science, for April, 1874. 

M. Achille Cazin, honorary member of our society, on a visit to Gen- 
eva, entertained us with some recent researches on the thermal phe- 
nomena which take place in a magnetic circuit, an extract of which 
appeared in the Comptes Eendus of the Academy of Sciences. 

The last work of our illustrious colleague, Auguste de la Rive, was 
accomplished in association with M. Edouard Sarasin, who gave the re- 
sults in the session of the 20th of November last. He investigated the 
action of magnetism upon the electric discharge in rarefied gas, when 
this discharge takes place in the prolongation of the axis of the mag- 
net. In this case the magnet produces a considerable augmentation of 
the current, when it acts directly upon the negative electrode. It seems, 
from these experiments, that there is a special and very strong resist- 
ance proceeding from the negative electrode, which the action of the 
magnet serves to overcome. {Archives des Sciences physiques et naturelles, 
April number, 1874.) 

M. Eaoul Pictet communicated to us several series of observations 
which he had an opportunity of making, during a long sojourn in Cairo, 
as director of the physical cabinet of that city. To speak first of those 
which treat more particularly of physics, he found, by means of a large 
actinometer, the measure of the intensity of the calorific radiation at 
Cairo. His apparatus consisted of a kind of caldron or boiler, formed of 
two thin ])arallel plates of iron, which was filled with water, and placed 
in a case full of cotton. This case was blackened, and closed at the side 
turned toward the sun by a variable number of glass plates. It results 
from these observations that in Egypt a surface of a square meter, ex- 
posed normally to the rays of the sun, in the middle of the day, absorbs 
nearly twelve calories a minute. Other observers in Europe find under 
like circumstances that the absorption amounts to about six calories. 
The diurnal evaporation produced under the action of the sun is about 
one-sixth of an inch of water ; that which results IVoni dry air iuid 
from wind is about three-sixths of an inch. 

M. Soret made several communications upon the phenomena of polar- 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENP^VA. 167 

izatiou by diffusion of liglit. He has observed a trace of illumination 
upon a cone of solar light concentrated not onl} in transparent liquid 
or solid bodies, water-crystals, &c., but even in brilliant flames. The 
particles of incandescent charcoal, which these contain, therefore, still 
exert their reflective power contrary to the idea given by M. Hirn. This 
luminous trace is always completely polarized for an angle of vision of 
90O. 

Professor Forel, of Morges, has given us the pleasure of listening to an 
account of the beautiful researches he has' undertaken on Lake Lemau, 
for several years, ou the transmission of light in water; and has 
shown us impressions obtained upon photographic paper immersed at 
diflerent depths. He found that 130 to 100 feet of depth in summer was 
the limit, beyoml which the transmitted light is too feeble to exercise any 
action upon the chloride of silver. In winter the water of the lake is 
much more transparent, and the limit extends to 200 feet. 

General Dufour described the effects of a thunderbolt on a poplar tree 
upon his estate near Geneva; a large furrow was made in it from the 
top of the trunk, 80 feet in height, to the bottom. On this occasion I\J. 
de la Harpe cited a fact which he had witnessed. A bolt fell upon a 
group of poplars, leaped from one tree to another, passed through sev- 
eral, and made cylindrical holes in them of from 3 to 4 inches in diameter. 

Terrestrial physics, meteorology. — Professor Plantamour presented a 
memoir upon the observations of latitude, of azimuth, and of the pendu- 
lum, made on the Righi, the Weisseustein, and at Berne, in 1807, 1808, 
and 1809. In a comparison of the observations of the pendulum on the 
Gebris and the Weissenstein, the weight was found to be 50^017 ^^^^ than 
in the first of these localities. M. Plantamour attributed this to the 
nature of the rocks, which are of cone-in-cone at Gebris, and calcareous 
at the Weissenstein. The same member announced to us the conclu- 
sion of the great work of the leveling of the polygon, traversing twice 
the Alps, at the St. Gothard, and at the Simplon retarded by an error, 
which, for a time, could not be accounted for, but which was finally 
found to be due to a ftilse figure in the record of one of the sides of the 
polygon. 

The variations, extreme this year, of the waters of the Lake of Geneva, 
attracted the attention both of the public and of the engineers. Gen- 
eral Dufour proved that the high waters of 1873, however, remained 
below those of 1792 and of 1817, and M. Plantamour added below those 
of 1840. A remarkably low level followed during the winter of 1873- 
1874, but the public were mistaken in believing an assertion in a certain 
journal that the lake had never been lower. 

These questions in regard to the level of the lake, which are frequently 
renewed, have formed the object of a special work by Professor Planta- 
mour, founded upon thirty-six years of observations, from 1838 to 1873. 
The author first proceeds to the verification, at several points, of the 
marks successively employed, and the level of the lake having been re- 



168 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

duced to tlie uniform of 10 feet below tlie mark of the stoue of Niton, 
the calculations for tbe tbirty-six years have given the following results: 

The lake attains its minimum (3 feet) on the lltli of February, audits 
maximum (7 feet) on tbe 7tb of August. There is a first mean level 
from the 28th to tbe 29tb of May, and a second from tbe22d to tbe 23d of 
October. The level is then during 218 days above, and during 147 days 
below the mean. Tbe level rises more quickly than it sinks. The rising 
is most rapid toward tbe 19th of June ; it rises then 6 inches a day. 

To show the annual variations, M. Plantamour has traced tbe curves 
of the highest levels of the means and of tbe lowest waters. These 
three curves have some analogy between them, but are far from con- 
cording. The level of tbe highest water varies tbe most from year to 
year, and it influences the meau more than tbe low water. The mean of 
tlie high tvafers has not sensibly varied during the lapse of thirty-six years. 
The bigbest maximum (9 feet) was attained on tbe 17th of July, 1846. 
Tbe level of tbe low water in winter is, on the contrary, raised progres- 
sively. The lowest minimum (1 foot 3 inches) is sbown on the 5th of 
April, 1840. That of 1873-1874, wbicb astonished the public, remained 
Ki inches above the level of 1840. As to tbe elevation of tbe low water 
during recent years, one of our colleagues, a former member of the ad- 
ministrative council of the city of Geneva, calls attention to tbe fact 
that tbe position of tbe suction-pipe of the hydraulic machine has not 
been altered for twelve years. Professor Plantamour, in this work, 
wbicb has required long calculations, has limited himself to the exposi- 
tion of the figures, but any one aware of tbe discussions wbicb have 
arisen at various times upon the supposed effects of the different levels 
of tbe lake, cannot abstain from one satisfactory reflection. The high 
water is frequently complained of, but never the low water, unless it 
sinks to such a point as to interfere with navigation, and, in some cases, 
with the approach to tbe ports. It is pleasant, then, to know that the 
high water has not risen for thirty-six jears, and that the mean of the 
low water is rather higher than lower.* 

The investigations in regard to Lake Leraan have been continued in 
a most satisfactory manner since our society and the Vaudois society of 
the natural sciences have united in encouraging them. Prof. Fran9ois 
Forel, who bad been previously engaged with tbe subject, and (lontinues 
to pursue it, has communicated to us a series of observations of great 
interest. I have already mentioned those relative to the absorption of 
light by the waters of the lake. He also made some upon tbe seiches, or 
sudden variations of level, very perceptible in tbe narrow jiart of tbe lake 
near Geneva. We know that Professor Vaucber attributed the phe- 
nomenon to the variations in the weight of the atmosphere.t M. Forel, 
while confirming the observations and the opinions of this savau, has 

* Oar M6inoircs alroady contain numerous documents upon the level of the lake. See 
V, p. 63 ; vol. viii, p. 119 ; vol. x, p. ;]27. 
] Miinoircs of the society, vol. vi, p. 35. 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 1 G9 

made a more complete examination of the facts. He observed the sud- 
den variations at the two extremities of the hike, and in the interme- 
diate station of Morges, where they are less sensible. The duration of 
one of these sucUlen changes varies little in each locality, but differs 
much from place to place. At Geneva it is 1,590 seconds ; at Veytaux, 
near the eastern extremity, 1,783 seconds ; and in the middle, at Morges, 
2C4. This latter locality presents a rhythmic movement of 22 seconds. 
M. Forel compares these movements of the lake to those of water in a 
basin, in which the height and duration of the waves of oscillation de- 
pend upon the form of the vase and the depth of the liquid.* 

The soundings of M. Forel at diiferent depths i)roved to him the 
existence of three strata at the bottom of the hike: 1st. An upper 
stratum of yellowish silt, containing a large number of animals, living 
and dead. 2d. A stratum of about 4 inches of black clay. 3d. A lower 
stratum of blue clay, very fine and very homogeneous, except near the 
mouth of the Ehone, where it contains some mica. 

M. Raoul Pictet profited by his sojourn in Egypt to study more accu- 
rately than had yet been done the water of the Nile. His principal 
oi)eratious of gauging took })lace near Cairo, at the bridge of Kasr-el- 
Nil. He sounded the river from shore to shore at 38 points, 33 feet 
distance from each other. The velocity was measured by means of 
the apparatus of Woltmann. The lowest water occurs about the 15th 
of ]\Iay ; the amount of water there is 24,000 cubic feet a second. The 
highest water is on the 15th of September, the amount then being 
372,000 cubic feet. The mean is 108,000 cubic feet a second. The 
greatest velocity 3 feet below the surface is G feet 9 inches ; the least, 
7 inches. 

M. Pictet has frequently observed the sand spouts, which are a daily 
phenomenon on the plains of Egypt. About 10 o'clock in the morning, 
the sun having heated the surface of the ground, there results in the 
adjoining stratum of air an ascensional and gyratory motion, which 
carries up sandy particles to a height of 5,000 to 0,500 feet. Tlie cen- 
tral part of the column has a temperature of from 45^' to G0<^, that of 
the atmosphere in the shade being from 25° to 35°, centigrade. 

Prof. A. Gautier i)resented an article upon the therraometric obser- 
vations made at Labrador by some Moravian missionaries. They form 
a continuation of those presented in 1870. 

Geology. — Prof. Alph. Pavre has regularly informed the society of the 
condition of the labors of the Swiss Geological Commission, of which 
he is a member. The geological chart of nroVoo ^^ published in eleven 
sheets, with five sheets of especial charts, concerning the canton of Bale, 
tlie environs of Brugg, Mount Pilatus, the St. Gothard, and the Sentis, 
(in two sheets.) The commission moreover has been especially occu- 
pied on the St. Gothard, where the great work of forming a tunnel 



* Forel upon the seiches in the Bulletin of the Soc. Vaudoise des so. nat., 1S73, p. 213 
and Archives of the so. phys. and uat., January, 1874. 



170 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

is in progress. An engineer, M. Stapff, has been engaged to make a 
careful section, indicating the strata, and to form 60 collections of the 
rocks extracted, of which twenty-five will remain in Switzerland and 
be distributed to the different museums of the country. M. Ernest Favre 
has given us an account of the researches M. Stapff has already made 
in the field of his commission. 

M. Alph. Favre has shown that upon the flank of the Jura, in the re- 
gion of Gex, above Farges, erratic blocks are not found higher than 
from 2,700 to 2,790 feet above the sea, while more to the east upon the 
Jura and at the Saleve they are seen at a much greater elevation. He 
thinks this may be accounted for by the small height of the Sion 
Mountain over which the neighboring glacier could flow. The declivity 
of Divonne, on the contrary, would interrupt its expansion in the direct 
tion to the east of Gex. 

Chemistry. — Professor Marignac read a memoir upon the solubility of 
the sulphate of lime, and upon the state of higher saturation of its 
solutions, which was published in the Archives of Physical and Natural 
Science for October, 1873. 

In another series of experiments, M. Marignac examined the diffusion 
of two salts in the same liquid. He used salts not susceptible of recip- 
rocal decomposition. In comparing salts capable of forming double 
salts with those not thus capable, he found no difference. He perceived 
no relation between the simultaneous diffusibility of two salts and their 
relative co-eflicients of diffusion. The mingling of two salts diminishes 
always the diflusibility of the least diffusible of the two. The various 
acids and the various bases preserve their order of difl'usibility through- 
out all their combinations. M. Marignac perceived no separation of the 
acids ajid of the bases in the diffusion of the salts. 

A so-called kaolin was found at Colouges, near to the fort of the 
ficluse. M. Emile Ador made an analysis of it. He found 38 percent, 
of silica, 35 of aluminum, and 27 of water; consequently, it was not a 
kaolin, but a mineral, analogous to the Halloyite. 

Zoology, physical, animal, and medical. — The presence of eels in the 
Lake of Geneva has been sometimes denied, but also as often asserted. 
M. Lunel was assured that this year several of them had been taken. 
He attributed this fact to the elevation of the waters, which allowed the 
eels to mount to the mouth of the Rhone more easily than iisual. 

The disappearance of a species is generally slow, and more or less 
difiQcult to prove ; but, as an entirely exceptional instance, M. do Can- 
dolle cited the complete absence since 1873 of the Galcricula calmari- 
ensis, a small coleoptera, which for several years devoured the leaves of 
the elms in the suburbs of Geneva to such a degree as to cause the 
death of a large number of the trees. The i)roprietors in vain endeav- 
ored to exterminate the insects, when suddenly they disappeared. As 
this disappearance was general as well as sudden, it could not be attri- 
buted to the increase of an enemy, but must have been due to an 
irregularity at au important moment of some condition of its existence. 



NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 171 

In his researches upon the bottom of Lake Lemau, Profes.sor Forel ex- 
tracted from the superticial stratum of the ooze, at depths of from 82 to 
100 feet, and even to the maximum of 980 feet, different crustaceans 
and other animals which are at present the object of special study with 
certain naturalists. To his great surprise he found sonje living limnaians 
(a family of mollusks) at so great a depth that they could breathe but very 
little oxygen, and that only in the manner of aquatic animals. These 
same limnajans, wiien placed in an aquarium, developed organs for aerial 
respiration. 1 

M. Henri de Saussure communicated to us the results of his study of 
the Orthojjtera, just published in the second part of volume vi of the 
French Expedition to Mexico. In connection with Gryllides he men- 
tions the genus Tridacttjius, in which each individual may have three 
modes of living — subterranean, aerial, and aquatic. A species of the 
south of France is found also in the sands, sometimes submerged, of 
the islands of the Khone near Colouges, where M. de Saussure has seen 
them alive. The two anterior claws serve for burrowing, the middle 
pair for walking, and the posterior pair for leaping, even when resting 
upon the water. The animal can rise in leaping to two hundred times 
its own length. It can also swim. 

Dr. Fol presented a memoir in French, which he has just published in 
German in the Jenaische Zeitschrift, upon the evolution of C(£le)iterates, 
in particular upon the egg of the species called Geryonia fungiformis. 
This work recalled to us by its nature, and by the beautiful plates 
which accompanied it, those of our eminent and regretted colleague, 
Edouard Claparede. The egg of the Geryonia passes by a regular 
segmentation to the state of the morula, then by means of a doubling of 
the single cellular stratum it produces two spheres, one fitting into the 
other, which become the ectoderm and endoderm. This formation, of 
which the author observed the course, appeared to him to differ much 
from that of the other cases, in which the double stratum results from 
the invagination of the primitive sphere. The conception of Leuckart 
and Hcieckel, of two subkingdoms having their common origin in the 
Protozoaires, finds support in these facts. M. Fol also examined the 
question whether there exist animals which in the adult condition are 
constructed like the ogg of the superior animals in the first phases of its 
evolution. He pointed out, in this connection, the Protomoyxa^ which 
was mentioned by M. Uieckel, and the Megasphcv> a plamda. 

M. Gustave Rouchette has continued the curious observations made 
by M. Moggride at IMentone, upon various species of ants and spiders. 
He showed us the seeds which the ant, called Atta Barbara, accumulates 
for food, in small subterranean cavities. When one of these seeds com- 
mences to germinate, the ants cut off the root and carry the seed into 
the sunshine to dry the w^ound. The mason spiders, which live in a 

1 See the articles of M. Forel upon the fauua of the deep waters of the lake, in the 
Bulletin de la Soc. Vaudois6 des Sc. Nat., xiii, No. 72. 



172 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND 

tube closed with a sort of a stopper, can construct this apparatus only 
■while tbey are young. They give to it the color which would best cause 
it to be confounded with the adjacent ground. M. Eouchette has given 
a series of examples, confirming the observations of the ingenious 
English naturalist. 

Dr. Lombard commented before the society upon the report of the 
French commission, by Dr. Baillarger, in regard to the goitre and cre- 
tinism. He hnds in the facts presented a verification of the theory he 
has given of the cause of the goitre. This cause, according to his view, 
consists in a plethora of carbon, produced by the rarity of the oxygen in 
elevated regions. A sojourn on the shores of the sea corrects this affec- 
tion by the greater abundance of oxygen, and by the iodine, which 
absorbs the carbon. Other causes may, in certain elevated localities, 
diminish the inconvenient effects of the rarity of the oxygen. M. Lom- 
bard's theory has also found support in the facts observed by the military 
physicians at Briangon, St. Etienne, and Lyons, and recorded in the Med- 
ical Gazette. The soldiers were the more frequently attacked with goi- 
tre in proportion as the locality in which they resided was elevated. 

Dr. d'Espine has given us an oral review of his thesis upon the puer- 
peral septicemia, tending to prove experimentally that the accidents 
of childbirth proceed from the absorption by the uteri-vaginal lesions of 
septic substances, as in any wound whatever. 

Botany. — The duration of the vitality of the seeds thrown into the sea 
is a question which concerns both physiology and botanical geography. 
M. Gustave has made it the object of direct study, at the request of M. 
lie Oandolle, and the latter communicated to the secretary the results, 
which have since been printed in the Archives of Physical and Natural 
Science for July, 1873. 

The progress made in the knowledge of vegetable fossils induced M. Alp. 
de Candolle to endeavor to connect, more than had yet been done, the bo- 
tanical geography of ancient and present times. For this end he deemed 
it necessary to propose a classification of the vegetables, founded upon 
their manner of comportment with regard to temperature and humidity, 
which determines different groups, of classes, families, species, and geo- 
graphical flora. He insists upon the persistence of physiological prop- 
erties, and attributes it to hereditary descent. After having character- 
ized five groups of plants, which he calls megaihermes, xerophiles, m6so- 
thermes^ microthcrmes, and MMsfothcrmcs, he shows their present distri- 
bution upon the terrestrial surface, and their anterior distribution, often 
different even in the Tertiary Period, the nearest approached to ours. 
The memoir appeared in the Archives of Physical and ^Natural Science 
for the month of May, 1874. 

Several botanists, members of our society, have been engaged with 
investigations in connection with the great publication of the Brazilian 
flora. M. Marc Micheli, having completed his study of the onagrarie^s 
of Brazil, has given us some interesting facts in regard to the organiza- 



NATUEAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 17S 

tion of the seeds in this family, particularly in the Jussicva, and also the 
geographical distribution of the species. He admits five genera, one of 
which, the Oocarpou, is new, and founded upon the number of parts of 
the flower. According to his observations, the disk of certain seeds of Jws- 
sicca are constituted b}^ a portion of the endocarpe adhering to the seed, 
and the bilocular seeds owe this appearance to an exceptional de%^elop- 
raent of the raphe. He founds the division of the genus into three prin- 
cipal sections upon these characteristics, which he elucidates by figures. 
His memoir is published entire in the Archives of Physical and Natural 
Science for Jane, 1874. 

Dr. J. Midler has been occupied with the determination of a singular 
fungus, sent to the museum of Geneva by M. Claraz, as an organic sub- 
stance, found in the waters of the Kio Negro, between Patagonia and 
the Argentine Republic. Notwithstanding the imperfect state of pre- 
servation, he recognized it as a Lysurvs, and has described it, with an 
illustration, in the Flora of the 21st of November, under the name of 
L. Clarazianus. 

Communications in regard to puhlished works or memoirs. 

Besides original memoirs and verbal communications of facts observed 
by the members, the society allows brief information to be given in 
regard to works already published. This is a pleasant way of contribu- 
ting to the progress of the knowledge of the members, principally in 
those branches with which they are not especially occupied. If we con- 
sider the number of the publications and the short time appropriated to 
them at the close of each session, it is clear that these communications 
must be very incomplete. Still, they are listened to with interest, and 
thanks are due to those members who have brought to notice some 
memoirs, very little known, but very important. 

In the coarse of this year the clergyman, M. Duby, has drawn our atten- 
tion to the opinions of Mr. Ililgard, in regard to the Algio and Mosses^ 
and to various articles relative to the invasion of an American crypto- 
gam a parasite ui)on the Malvacees ; M. Alph. Favre has spoken to us 
of the work of M. Belgrand, upon the hydrographical study of the 
Seine; M. Ernest Favre of the memoirs of M. Mojsisovicz, upon the 
geology of the oriental Alpe.s, and of M. Schlatter, upon the fossil 
crnstacea of Libanus. Prof. A. Gauticr has been very zealous in inibrm- 
ing the society of the work which has been done in astronomy and 
meteorology, both in Europe and America. He has mentioned esi)e(!- 
ially the labors of Vogel in regard to the movements of the stars, and 
of Poly ai)on the relation between the solar si)ots and different meteors 
at the suriace of the earth. Prof, de la Uarpe has given us an analysis 
of Prof. Hayden's volume upon the geology of the Territory of Montana. 
M. Humbert has spoken of the observations of Fiitz Miiller upon the 
thermiU's of Brazil; M. Marc Mieheli of those of M. Prillieux, upon the 
movements of the chlorophyl of the Selaginella; Dr. Prevost of the 



174 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS, ETC. 

receut discoveries in regard to tbe cerebral system; M. Soret upon the 
method employed by M. Becquerel for the study of the calorific spectre 
by the aid of phosphorescent substances, and upon various physical 
memoirs read before the French association at Lyons. Finally, M. 
Marcet has addressed a letter to us from London, in regard to the 
investigations of Tyndall upon the propagation of sound in the atmos- 
phere. 

Publications of the society. — Volume XXIII, part 2, in which we pub- 
lish this report, shows that the series of our memoirs continue in a 
satisfactory manner. The society has no other resources for the main- 
tenance of this publication than those furnished by its members and 
the products of the sale or exchange of its volumes. The preceding 
year the family of Edouard Claparede generouslj' aided us in publishing 
his last and remarkable work. If this liberality were repeated we 
would be able to give much more extended memoirs, illustrated with 
many more plates, for happily scientific activity does not decrease 
amonsr and around us. 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY: 

AN INAUGURAL LECTURE GIVEN BY JOSEPH PRESTWICH, M.A., F. R. S., 
F. G. S., &c., PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD, 
ON JANUARY 29, 1875. 



1 cauuot euter upou the subject of this address without a brief tribute 
to the memory of my distinguished and lamented predecessor, Professor 
Phillips. Educated in geology by his uncle, William Smith, the father 
of pjuglish geology, John Phillips was thus nearly connected with the 
early history of our science, and lived to give active and efficient aid to 
its progress during more than half a century. His early training was 
among the Oolitic hills of Gloucestershire and the Midland Counties, 
but his first independent work was among the Palaeozoic rocks of York- 
shire. In later life, he returned to the ground of his youth, and spent 
his last years in investigating the rich and varied succession of life in 
the different divisions of that Oolitic series of which his uncle was the 
first to establish the stratigraphical order ; and his " Geology of the 
Valley of the Thames " contains the best summary we possess of the 
geology and palaeontology of these strata in this and the adjacent 
counties. 

Besides his chief and early work on the "Geology of Yorkshire,-' 
Phillips was also the author of an excellent " Treatise on Geology," of 
works on the Malvern Hills, and on Vesuvius, of several memoirs in the 
geological survey, and of above seventy papers scattered through various 
scientific periodicals. He was a fellow of most of our great scientific so- 
cieties, and the record of his many valuable contributions in each special 
branch is to be found in their respective proceedings. I have to note 
his work here. 

Shortly after Phillips's arrival in Oxford, the valuable geological col- 
lections, many of which had remained hidden for want of space, were 
transferred from their old quarters to the new and beautiful museum 
Oxford now possesses. Valuable as these collections were in i)articular 
sections, especially in cave remains, there was very much to be done in 
completing the series of the local formations, and in the general selec- 
tion, order, and grouping of the specimens. All this was admirably 
carried out by Phillips, and the geology of the surrounding district is 
now illustrated by a suite of fossils amassed and arranged with great 
judgment, and forming one of the most complete local series in the king- 
dom. To Phillips especially is this museum indebted for the remarkable 
collection of the remains of the Cetiosaurns and of the Great Oolite — an 
extinct gigantic reptile the size of a whale and with the gait and am- 

175 



176 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

pbibious habits of a crocodile. He also brought his great local knowl- 
edge of Great Britain to bear ou oue of the proposed additions to the 
new museum, viz, that of the British ornamental rocks, of which the 127 
graceful columns which decorate tlie building each constitutes a speci- 
men ; the size and position of the shafts exhibiting to great effect, and 
with permanent advantage, the character and beauty of the several 
rocks, including numerous varieties of our granites, serpentines, and 
mountain limestones, with some from the more recent Permian, Oolitic, 
and Purbeck strata. Xo such collection exists elsewhere, and with it 
will always be associated the name of the eminent man who by his taste 
and ability so ably contributed to the success of the work. 

But Phillips was not only a geologist; he was a man of great and 
varied acquirements, a meteorologist, a botanist, an astronomer, and a 
physicist. Further, he was a man whose amiable disposition, engaging 
manners, and eloquent and fluent address, made him beloved as much 
as he was esteemed; and while his loss to science will be long felt, his 
mark must remain and his memory will ever be honored. 

When in 1819 Dr. Buckland, who had a few years previously suc- 
ceeded Dr. Kidd as professor of mineralogy, received his appointment 
to the then-recently-created chair of geology, he spoke of these subjects 
as the " new and curious sciences of geology and mineralogy." Geology 
was only then beginning to assume a recognized position, and was pass- 
ing from purely speculative "theories of the earth" to the more philo- 
sophical investigations of its structure and organisms. Hutton had 
sought in natural existing agencies the causes of past changes on the 
earth; Smith had solidly laid its stratigraphical foundations; and 
Cuvier was devoting his great talents to the restoration of old higher 
forms of life. Buckland then commenced his powerful and attractive 
teaching, and drew around him the younger men, through many of 
whom his influence on the progress of geology is happily yet felt. In 
his hands, the interesting fauna of the surrounding district was gradu- 
ally unfolded, and among the most remarkable of the extinct forms then 
discovered and described by Buckland was the huge Megalosaurus and 
the small Marsupials, long the most ancient quadrupeds known, of 
Stonesfield. 

Bat Buckland's great work was that connected with cave remains, in 
search of which he ransacked England and the continent, and although 
the conclusions then enunciated by him, and at that time very generally 
accepted by geologists, have not been corroborated, the facts so well 
recorded and the collections so largely made remain to attest the value 
and importance of his labors. It was in connection with these researches 
that the later discovery of our time, that of the association of the ex- 
tinct mammalia with the remains and works of man, was dimly sighted, 
but with averted eyes, by my distinguished predecessor. But Buckland 
did not stand alone ; his opinion was shared by geologists of all coun- 
tries, and it was not until another generation had passed that the evi- 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 177 

dence so often brought forward, and wliicli liad in vain sought examina- 
tion, respectiug the antiquity of man, was confirmed and admitted by 
geologists. 

Such was the aspect of our science at the time this chair was estab- 
lished ; and I propose in this address briefly to notice some of the larger 
features, whether on questions of theory or on questions of fact, by 
which its progress has been marked, and which, while they may serve 
to show how much has been done, will yet indicate how much still 
remains to be accomplished. 

The geologist commences where the astronomer ends. We have to 
adapt the large and broad generalizations of cosmical phenomena to 
the minuter details of terrestrial structure and constitution which it is 
our business to study. The common origin of the solar system has been 
long inferred from the spheroidal figure of the earth and the relations 
of the planets to one another, and explained by evolution from an 
original nebulous mass ; and geologists have had to consider how far 
such a hypothesis is in accordance with geological facts. The ques- 
tions connected with the earliest stages of the earth's history are on the 
very boundary-line of our science, but they have too important a bear- 
ing on its subsequent stages not to comumnd our serious attention ; 
and thongii obscure and theoretical, they serve to guide us to firmer 
ground. This nebular hypothesis has recently received from ])hysicists 
corroboration of a most novel and striking character, equally interesting 
to geologists and astronomers. 

The wonderful discoveries with respect to the solar atmosphere, made 
by means of the spectroscope, have now presented us with an entirely 
new class of evidence, which, taken in conjunction with the argument 
derived from figure and plan, gives irresistible weight to the theory of 
a common origin of the sun and its planets ; and while serving to con- 
nect our earth with distant worlds, indicates as a corollary what of 
necessity must have been its early condition and probable constitu- 
tion. 

The whole number of known elements composing the crust and atmos- 
phere of the earth amounts only to sixty-four, and their relative distribution 
is vastly disj)roportionate. It has been estimated that oxygen in com- 
bination forms by weight one-half of the earth's crust, silicon enters for a 
quarter, then follow aluminium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, 
iron, and carbon. These nine together have been estimated to consti- 
tute -^JJjj of the earth's crust. The other j^j?_ consist of the remain- 
ing fifty-five non-metallic and metallic elements. 

The researches of Kirchhotl", Angstroni, Thalen, and Lockyer have 
made known that of these sixty-four terrestrial elements there are 
twenty i)resent in tliose parts of the solar atmosphere called the 
"chromosphere" and "reversing layer,'' as the stratum which sur- 
rounds the photosphere is called from certain optical properties. 
S. Mis. 115 12 ^ 



178 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 



They consist of* — 
Aluiuiuium. Ceriaiu 
Barium. 
Cadmium. 
Calcium. 



Chromium. 
Cobalt. 
Copper. (?) 



Hydrogen. 
Iron. 
Lead. (?) 
Magnesium. 



Manganese. 
Nickel. 
Potassium. 
Sodium. 



Strontium. 
Titanium. 
Uranium. 
Zinc. 



Nor, with possibly two exceptions, does the spc ctroscope give any 
indication of unknown elements. 

While these phenomena afford such strong additional proofs of the 
common origin of our solar system, Mr. Norman Lockyer, basing his 
inquiries upon these and other facts recently acquired on the constitu- 
tion of the sun, has been led to form some views of singular interest 
bearing on the probable structure of the crust and nucleus of the earth. 
With his permission, I am enabled to lay before you some of the points 
in the inquiry he is now i^ursuing. 

Observation and theory have both led him to the unexpected conclu- 
sion that in the case of an atmosphere of enormous height, and consist- 
ing of gases and of metallic elements in a gaseous state, gravity over- 
comes diffusion, and the various vapors extend to different heights, 
and so i)ractically arrange themselves in layers 5 and that in the sun, 
where owing to the fierce solar temperature the elements exist in such 
a state of vapor and of complete dissociation, the known elements 
arrange themselves in the main in the following order: t 
Coronal atmosphere Cooler hydrogen. 

Chromosphere \ Incandescent hydrogen. 

( Magnesium, calcium. 

^ Sodium. 

I Chromium. 
Eeversiug layer ^ Manganese. 

I Iron. 

[Nickel, i&c. 
Mr. Lockyer suggests, and has communicated some evidence to the 
Royal Society in support of his suggestion, that the metalloids or non- 
metallic elements as a group lie outside the metallic atmosphere. He 

* On aualyziug this list we find : One permanent gas, (hydrogen;) two metals of the 
alkalies, (sodinm, potassium ;) all the metals of the alkaline earths, (ealcinni, stron- 
tium, barium :) three metals of the zinc class, (magnesium, zinc, cadmium ;) all the 
metals of the iron cla.ss, (manganese, cobalt, chromium, iron, nickel, uraniuui; two 
metals of the tin class, (tin, titanium ;) one metal of the lead class, probably, (lead.) 

The metals of the tungsten, antimony, silver, and gold classes are entirely uiuepre- 
sented, while, if wo accept the metallicnature of hydrogen, there is not a single metal- 
loid on the list, although tliey have been diligently searclied for. 

tMr. Lockyer points out that this order is that of the old atomic or combining 
weights, and not t'hat of the modern atomic weights, as the following table shows : 



Old atomic New atomic 
weights. weights. 
1 



Hydrogen 1 

Magnesinna 12 24 

Calcioui 20 40 

Sodium 23 23 

Alnmininm does not find a i)lace in the above list, because its order in the layers has 
not yet been dcterniiMed by ol)serv:vtion ; but the principle referred to would "place it 
between magnesium aud calcium. 



Old atomic New atom 
weights. weights. 

Chromium 26 

Manganese 27 

Iron 28 

Nickel 29 



o2.5 
55 
56 
58 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 179 

also explains why uuder these conditions their record among the Fraun- 
hofer lines should be a feeble one. Hence he considers that we have no 
argument against the presence of some quantity of the metalloids in 
the sun taken as a whole, although that quantity may be small. 

Mr. Lockyer then takes the observed facts together with the hypoth- 
esis of the external position of the metalloids, and is considering these 
two questions : 

1. Assuming the earth to have once been in the same condition as the 
sun now is, what would be the chemical constitution of its crust? 

2. Assuming the solar nebula to have once existed as a nebulous star 
at a temperature of complete dissociation, whac would be the chemical 
constitution of the planets thrown oft' as the nebulosity contracted! 

It will be seen that there is a most intimate connection between these 
,two inquiries, the localization of the various elements and the reduction 
of temperature acting in the same way in both cases. 

Thus, to deal with the first question : as the external gaseous vapors 
(those of the metalloids) cooled, they condensed and fell on the under- 
lying layer, where they entered into combination, forming one set of 
binary compounds and then others as the temperature Avas reduced, 
until finally all the metals and earths were precipitated.* 

If, now, we turn to the earth's crust, we find it very generally as- 
sumed that the fundamental igneous rocks which underlie the sedi- 
mentary strata, and which formed originally the outer layers, may be 
divided into two great masses, holding a general relation one to the 
other, an upper one consisting of granite and other plutonic rocks, rich 
in silica, moderate in alumina, and poor in lime, iron, and magnesia; 
and of a lower mass of basaltic and volcanic rocks of greater specific 
gravity, with silica in smaller proportions, alumina in equal, and iron, 
lime, and magnesia in much larger i)roportions, with also a great variety 
of other elements as occasional constituents; while the denser metals 
are in larger proportion in the more central portion of the nucleus. The 
suggestion of Mr. Lockyer is that this order follows necessarily from 
the original localization of the earths and metals before referred to, by 
which the oxygen, silicon, and other metalloids formed, as they now do 
in the sun, an outer atmosphere, succeeded by an inner one consisting 
in greater part of the alkaline earths and alkalies, then by a lower one 
of iron and its associated group of metals, and finally by an inner nu- 
cleus containing the other and denser metals. 

As we have before observed, above nine-tenths of the earth's crust 
consists of those elements which, on the assumption of the external posi- 
tion of the metalloids, would constitute the outer layers of the nebular 
mass. Thus, oxygen and silicon alone constitute, on the average, y^ 

* FirBtly, those binary componiids capable of existiiip; at a high temperaturt', such 
as the vapor of water, of hydrochloric acid, of silica, carbonic acid, and others, would 
be formed; Kticondly, the jjrecipitation of these would jiivcj rise to numerous react ious, 
formiiijr a variety of silicates, chlorid<!S, sulphates, &c. ; thirdly, with the condensation 
of water, the constitution of minerals would be t>tVecte<l, <loubl(! decompositions would 
ensue, and the consolidutiou of the out«r shell commence. 



180 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

of the mass of acid plutouic rocks of which the upper part of the first 
assumed shell of the earth consists. Beueath it, as a whole, are the 
basic rocks, into the composition of which calcium, magnesium, and iron, 
combined with oxygen, enter in the ratio of, say, -^^\, while the silicon 
diminishes in proportion. Still dee{)er lie the denser and harder metals, 
which reach the surface only through veiivs transversing the outer layers. 

We next come to the second question, dealing with the chemical con- 
stitution of the planets. It is imagined that the same consideration 
would hold good, and that the exterior planets may approach in their 
constitution that of the sun's outer atmosphere, and that the planets 
may become more metaffic as their orbits lie nearer the central portion 
of the nebula. Mr. Lockyer considers that the low density and gigantic 
and highly-absorbing atmospheres of the outer planets accords with 
their being more metalloidal ; and that, on the other hand, the high 
density and comparatively small and feebly-absorbing atmospheres of 
the inner planets points to a more intimate relation with the inner layers 
of tbe original nebulous mass. For the same reason, we should expect 
to find the metalloids scarcer in the sun than in the earth. 

In the Jovian system, and in our own moon, we have a still further 
support of the hypothesis in the fact that the density of the satellites 
is less than that of their primary. 

I had hoped to have brought before you some of the results of the 
examination of the spectra of portions of the outer igneous-rock crust of 
the earth, which Mr. Lockyer kindly undertook to compare with the 
solar spectrum; but, owing to the state of the weather, the investigation 
is not yet complete. It may be stated, however, that as in the spectrum 
of the sun so in the spectra of the lava, greenstone, and granite already 
tested, no trace of the metalloids is present, although oxygen and silicon 
enter so largely' into the composition of these rocks. 

We can, however, still only look on these views as hypothetical, but 
they commend themselves to us by their simplicity and grandeur, and 
their high suggestiveness for future inquiry and research. They show 
us also how the spectroscope may, as the microscope has done already, 
aid the investigations of the geologists — the one by endowing the eye 
■with new powers of sight with respect to the infinitely minute, and the 
other with new powders of tangible analysis with respect to the infinitely 
distant in time and in space. 

Quitting the early history of our globe, we leave the domain of the 
astronomer and enter upon one shared by the geologist, the mineralo- 
gist, the chemist, and the mathematician. The elements which we first 
dealt with in their gaseous and dissociated state have now entered into 
a multiplicity of combinations giving rise to a vast variety of compound 
bodies. Instead of t4ie sixty-four simple elements, their mutual reac- 
tions have resulted in the formation of somewhere about one thousind 
varieties of rocks and minerals alone, with which the geologist has in 
futuire to deal. He also has to deal with all the i)hysical problems 
arising from the consolidation of the crust of the earth, from pressure 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 181 

due to gravitation and contraction, from tbe action of subterranean 
forces, from tbe effects of beat, and witb all tbe varied pbeuomeua re- 
sulting from tbese com[)lex conditions. 

Passing for tbe present over tbe intermediate stages of consolidation, 
tbe continual cooling of tbe globe bas necessarily resulted in atbicken- 
iug of its crust, tbe exact extent of wbicb at tbe present time bas long 
been tbe object of geologists to determine. 

Tbe inquiry is one of extreme difiticulty, and bas of late years engaged 
and is stiil engaging tbe attention of some of tbe ablest pbysici.sts and 
matbematicians. Tbe early belief was tbat tbe tbickness of tbe crust ot 
tbe eartb does not now exceed tbirty to sixty miles; but tbe late Mr. 
Hopkins, reasoning on pbenomeua connected witb precession or nuta- 
tion, concluded tbat on tbe contrary it could not be less tban eigbt liun- 
dred miles tbick, or more; a conclusion wbicb bas been supported and 
extended by Sir W. Tbompson, wbo, wbile maintaining tbe igneous ori- 
gin of tbe globe, and tbe greater intensity of action in past ages, bas 
furtber proved, on dynamical grounds, tbat tbe eartb as a wbole must 
now be more rigid tban glass, and probably even more rigid tban steel. 

It is difficult, bowever, to reconcile tbese views witb tbe extent and 
character of recent volcanic action. Tbis Mr. Robert Mallet endeavors 
to do, in a remarkable paper recently publisbed in tbe Transactions of 
tbe Royal Society. Tbe autbor bases bis views upon Constant Prevost's 
tbeory of elevatory forces, but considers tbat as tbe secular cooling of 
tbe globe bas proceeded, and tbe crust become tbicker and more rigid, 
tbe tangential pressure, no longer equal to tbe elevation of mountain- 
ranges, is spent in local crusbings of portions of tbe crust; and tbat, by 
transformation of tbe mechanical work of compression, tbe beat iroui 
wbicb terrestrial volcanic agency is at present derived is protluccd. 
Mr. Mallet contends for tbe bigh probability tbat tbis " crushing of the 
earth's solid crust affords a supi)ly of energy sufficient to account for 
terrestrial vulcanicity," comprehending in tbat term eartbipiakes and 
volcanic action. Thus, instead of arising from a deep-seated and com- 
mon cause, Mr. Mallet would assign present volcanic ejections to tbe 
local fusion of tbe strata at variable but moderate depths beneath the 
surface ; and be considers it characteristic of such action " tbat it is 
only one phase of a unique force wbicb bas always been in action, 
though in decreasing energy, since our planet was nebulous." 

On the other band, these views have been objeiited to by other com- 
petent observ^ers, wbo hold witb little nioditication to tbe original 
hypothesis of a molten central nucleus and a shell of comparatively small 
thickness. Such are some of tbe lai-ge ])hysical problems now oeeupy- 
iug tbe attention of geologists. I shall have occasion to recur to them 
again. 

In stratigrapbical geology, tbe great (I*ivisions originally introduced 
by our predecessors stand, but their number and the inunber of sub- 
divisions have greatly increased. In 1822, when Phillips and Conybeare 
wrote their "Geology of England and Wales," twenty-three so-called lor- 



182 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY, 




THE FAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 183 

matious were recognized, whereas now thirty-eight such are established, 
and these are divided into about one hundred and twenty subdivisions, 
each characterized by some peculiarity of structure or of fauna. Palaj- 
ontology as a separate science was not then known ; structural and 
physical geology had chiefly occupied attention ; but the study of or- 
ganic remains has since advanced with such rapid and vigorous strides 
that the older branch of the subject was until lately in danger of being 
neglected and distanced. 

At that time, the number of species of organic remains in Great 
Britain which had been described amounted only to 752, whereas now 
the number amounts to the large total of 13,270 species. The relative 
l)roportion between these totals and the numbers of each class is exhib- 
ited in the annexed diagram, (Fig 1*,) which shows also the vast progress 
made in palojontological knowledge between 1822 1 and 1874|. 

Some idea of the extent and variety of the past life of our globe 
may be formed by comparing these figures with the numbers of plants 
and animals now living in Great Britain. Excluding those classes and 
families, such as the naked mollusca and others, which, Irom their soft 
and gelatinous nature, decay rapidly and so escape fossilization, and 
insects, || the preservation of which is exceptional, the number of living 
species amounts to 3,989, against 13,183 extinct species of the same 
classes, and the relative proportions of each class stands as in the dia- 
gram. Fig. 2. 

Thus while the total number of those classes of vertebrate and inver- 
tebrate animals and i^lants represented in a fossil state, and now living 
in Great Britain, is only 3,989, there formerly lived in the same area as 
many as 13,27G species, so that the fossil exceed the recent by 9,287 
species. It must be remembered also that plants are badly represented; 
for owing to their restricted preservation, the fossil species only number 

* lu these diagrams, the iuuer semicircle, a a, gives the relative proportiou between 
each class in an area which represents the sum of the total ; and the outer semicircle, 
c c, gives the dimensions which each class would have had had the pi'oportions between 
the several classes in each of the two compared periods or stocks been maintaiued in 
the same ratio as in a a ; while the irregular segments bh give approximately the actual 
increase or excess of each class, showing how comparatively large the additions in some 
of them have been compared with those in others, aud in the case of Fig. 2 showing how 
particular classes of fossils fall below or exceed in development of their living ana- 
logues. The inner numbers attached to the several classes refer to the value of each 
in the inner circle a a, and the outer numbers have reference to the values represented 
by the segments 6. The sign X means that certain segments should be so many times 
larger. 

t As there was no list of British fossils then published, I have taken the numbers 
given in Woodward's " Synoptical Table," published in 1830, and deducted from them 
those added to the stock betwcsen 1822 and 18.30. 

1 1 am indebted to my friend Mr. Etheridge, F. 11. S., paheontologist to the Geological 
Survey, for the particulars of this 1874 stock. The details are given in a valuable 
table, which he has had the kindness to draw up for me, and which is given in full, 
with the details of the 1822 stock and of living species, in the ai)pendix. 

II The number of British species of insects amounts to between 10,0U0 aud 11,000. 



184 



THE PAST AND FUTUEE OF GEOLOGY. 



823 against 1,820 recent species. Birds are still worse represented, as 
only 18 fossil species occur against 354 recent species. 
But the multiplicity of British fossils, however surprising as a whole, 







So 


%-%t^ 



ex 



*-?&a 




189 • OC etnjaponiqDg; 

EiS • IZl S9lBJ9^n9isnf) 



383-96 Khizopods and Protozoa'. 



# 



has to be viewed in another and different light. The large total repre- 
sents, not as the recent species do, the life of one period, but the sum of 
those of all the geological periods. Geological periods, as we construct 
them, are necessarily arbitrary. The whole geological series consists of 
subdivisions, each one of which is marked by a certain number of char- 
acteristic species, but each having a large proportion of species com- 
mon to the subdivisions above and below it. These various subdivis- 
ions are again massed into groups or stages, having certain features and 
certain species peculiar to them and common throughout, and which 
groups are separated from the groups above and below by greater breaks 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 



185 



in the contiuuity of life and of stratificiition tbau mark tbe lesser divis- 
ions. As these on tbe whole severally exhibit a distinct fauna and flora, 
we may conveniently consider them as periods, each having its own dis- 
tinctive life, and the number of which in Great Britain we have taken 
api)roximatively at thirty-eight. 




The number of species common to one i)eriod and another varies very 
greatly; but taking theavernge of the sixteen divisions of the Jurassic 
and Cretaceous series, of which the lists were, with a portion of th»)se 
of the older series, given a few years since by Professor Kamsay,* we 

*Aiiiiiver8ary addressea for 18G:i aiul 18()4, Quarterly Journal Geological Society. 
The tables were computed by Mr. Etberidge. 



186 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

may assume that about 30 per ceut. of the orgauic remaius pass from 
one stage to auother. Dividiug the 13,270 fossil species among the 
thirty-eight stages, or omitting the lower stages and some others and 
taking only thirty, we get a rough average of 442 species for each ; and, 
allowing in addition for the number common to every two periods, we 
obtain a mean of 030 species as the population of each of the thirty 
periods against the 3,989 species of the present period. On this view, 
the relative numbers are therefore reversed, as shown in the annexed 
diagram, (Fig. 3,) where the number of living British species is compared 
with the mean of the extinct species assumed for any one past period 
of the same area. 

This gives a ratio for the fauna or flora of a past to that of the 
present period of only as 1 : 0^. But it must be remembered that prob- 
ably the actual as well as the relative numbers of the several classes 
inter se in each and all of these several formations varied greatly at 
the different geological periods. Still, we have no reason to sui)pose 
but that, during the greater part of them, life of one form or another was 
as prolific, or nearly so, in the British area then as at the present day, 
and we may thus form some conception of how little relatively, though 
so much really, we have yet discovered, and of how much yet remains 
to be done, before we can re-establish the old lands and seas of each 
successive period, with their full and significant populations. This we 
cannot hope ever to succeed in accomplishing fully, for decay has been 
too quick and the rock entombment too much out of our reach ever to 
yield up all the varieties of past life. But although the limits of the 
horizon may never be reached, the field may be vastly extended ; each 
segment of that semicircle may yet be prolonged we know not how far; 
and it is in this extension — in the filling-up of the blanks existing in 
the life of each particular period — that lies one great work of the future. 
The field which thus embraces the study of all the varied forms of life 
in all past time has now, as we have just shown, attained such vast 
dimensions as will long require for its due and continued cultivation 
the active and unceasing co-operation of geologists and palaeontologists. 

We now come to the more especial ground of the geologist. Starting 
with investigations connected with the origin of the globe, he has to 
trace the changes it has undergone through the various phases of its 
history, to determine the cause of those changes, and the manner in 
which they were eflected. Besides investigating the character and dis- 
tribution of all organized things inhabiting the earth in all former 
periods — their order of succession, and the relation of the several and 
successive groups one to auother — he has also to study various chemical 
and physical questions connected with inorganic matter. 

In the infancy of the science, geologists generally sought to exi)laiu 
the great mechanical phenomena exhibited on the surface of the globe 
by energy rather than by length of action. The philosophy of llutton, 
Playfair, and their successors checked this disposition, and has led to 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 187 

more temperiite methods of explauatioii ; but it is a question whetber 
the license which formerly was taken with energy is not now too much 
taken with time. Small forces long continued, action frequently 
repeated, and maintained uniformity of operation, are accepted as suffi- 
cient to account for the formation of our bills and plains, of the Alps 
and the Andes, and for all the great general as well as special features 
of the earth's crust. 

I am aware that in expressing other views I shall have occasion to 
differ from men for whose opinion 1 have the highest regard, and who 
have done infinite service to the progress of scientific geology ; but I 
am also expressing views which 1 was very early led to form, and which 
long experience has only tended to confirm. The points at issue are, 
firstly, whether our experience on these questions is sufficient to enable 
us to reason from analogy; and, secondly, whether all former changes" 
of the earth's surface are to be explained by the agency of forces alike 
in 1:1)1(1 and degree with those now in action. It is not possible in the 
limits of this address to do full justice to these important questions. I 
may, however, briefly state my reasons for answering these questions in 
the negative. 

The value of experience with respect to natural phenomena depends 
upon whether they are symmetrical and not variable, or whether they 
are variable and unsymmetrical. In the one case, as any one part bears 
a given uniform relation to the whole, if one part be known, the whole 
can be inferred; but in the other case, whei^e the whole is made up of 
unequal and not uniform parts, the value of the evidence is merely in 
proportion to the number of those parts independently determined, or 
to the ratio between the duration of the observation and the duration 
of the time comprising all the phases of the particular phenomenon. 
Thus the path of a planet, the date of an eclipse, or the return of a 
comet, may be predicted with certainty by the determination of mere 
minute sections of their orbits, which in respect to time are infinitely 
small compared to the length of the cycle of revolution. On the other 
Land, the metamorphosis of an insect, the mean temperature of a i)lace, 
or the character of a volcano, can only be accurately determined by a 
length of observations sufficient to embrace all the variations they resj^ect- 
ively present in their several cycles of change. In the case of the insect, 
the time must be equal to the duration of the metanioriAiosis ; in that 
of temperature, a succession of years is needed to obtain a mean ; and, 
with respect to volcanoes, centuries may often i)ass before we become 
acquainted with all the irregular exhibitions of their spasmodic activity. 

The necessity for a much greater extension of time becomes yet more 
imperative when we come to deal with geological phenoniena, such as 
those due to the action of elevatory forces, Avhich are extremely varied 
in their nature, being at one time exhibited by a raised beach, a lew feet 
high, and at another by a mountain-chain, whose height is measured by 
miles; or by the small displacement produced by an earthquake, and 



188 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

the rectilinear fracture of a county with a displacement of thousands of 
feet. 

In taking into consideration the weight of the evidence where the 
series is so variable and irregular, it is clear that the increment of value 
is in i)roportion to the increment of time. One phase of the insect life, 
one year's record of temperature, a century's observation of the volcano, 
give evidence which, although of value 2^^'^ tanto, as one link in the 
chain, is entirely inconclusive when applied to the whole leugth. So in 
respect to such geological changes as those just named, the value of our 
experience is only in the proportion of the length thereof to the duration 
or cyale of the phenomenon under investigation. Thus the elevation of 
mountain ranges have been events of rare and distant occurrence. Sup- 
posing, as has been estimated, that all the great chains can be referred 
to thirteen principal epochs; or, taking subordinate ranges, that the 
elevation of the mountain-chains of the Old World be limited to twenty 
such periods. Divide geological time (since the sufficient consolidation 
of the crust of the earth) by this or even by double this number, and we 
may form some conception of the length of the cycles involving changes 
of this magnitude. What that time is it is impossible to say ; we can only 
feel how infinitely it exceeds all our limited experience. With respect 
thereto, the experience of five hundred years is no doubt of value — one or 
two thousand years add further to it; but, after all, how insignificant that 
duration of time is compared to the time over which the cycle extends. 
It may be as 1 : 100, or it may be as 1 : 200, or more. And I shall show 
further on (p. 47) that there are circumstances which indefinitely extend 
even these proportions. I conclude, therefore, that our experience in 
these cases is by far too limited to furnish us with reliable data, and that 
any attempt to reason solely from part to the whole must prove falla- 
cious. 

Another argument adduced in support of this theory is, in my opinion, 
equally untenable. It is asserted that, taking the degree of elevatory 
force now in operation, and allowing quantity of time, the repetition of 
the small changes on the surface witnessed by us would produce, in 
time, results of any known magnitude, i. e., that the force which could 
elevate a district 5 feet in a century would suffice in one hundred thou- 
sand years to raise it 5,000 feet. This reasoning might be conclusive, if 
we had cause to suppose that the force were uniform and constant, but 
even our limited experience shows this to be irregular and paroxysmal; 
and although the eflects indicate the nature of the force, they in no way 
give us a measure of its degree. 

Before I i)roceed further I must remove two objections which have 
been urged against what has been called the cataclysmic theory in oppo- 
sition to the uniformitarian theory— both terms in themselves inaccurate 
from their exaggeration, as all such terms usually are. One is, that we 
require forces other than those which we see in operation ; and the other, 
that it is unnecessarily sought to do by violent means that which can 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 189 

be e(]nally well effected by time. It is not, liowever, a question raised 
as to the nature of the force, but as to its enerj^y : it is not a question of 
necessity one way or the other, but of interpretation ; it is a (jutstiou 
of dynamics and not of time, and we cannot aci^ept the introduction of 
time in exphuiatiou of problems the real difliculties of which are thereby 
more often passed over than solved. Time may and must be used as 
without limits ; there is no reason why any attempt should be made either 
toexteiulor to curtail it; but while there is no need for I'rngality, there is no 
wisdom in prodi<^ality. After all, it will be Ibnnd that, whichever theory 
is ado[)ted, the need will not be very different ; the mountain range, for 
the gradual elevation of which the one will ask 100,000 years, the other 
may require for its more sudden elevation a force taking the same num- 
ber of years to accumulate its energies. 

We must, however, judge of the past by the features it has stamped 
on the land,* and these we must interpret not entirely by our own ex])e- 
rience, not alone by our estinuite of force, but by our knowledge of what 
amount of force the energy due to the thermal condition of the ^^lobe 
can develop on known dynamical principles, and by our observation of 
what those forces have eli'ected in past times. 

However we may differ in our interpretation of the present theiuial 
state of the globe, most geologists agree in accepting the hypothesis of 
central heat as the one best in accordance with known facts relating to 
subterranean temperature, the eruption of igneous rocks, the action of 
metamorphism, and the crushing and contortions of rock-masses. The 
radiation of heat into space has been accompanied by a gradual con- 
traction of the central mass, and a shrinking of the crust, to which the 
trough of oceans, the elevation of continents, the protrusion of mount- 
ain-chains, and the faulting of strata are to be attributed. The ques- 
tion is whether that contraction was accompanied by a like gradual 
yielding and adaptation of the solid crust to the lessening circumference 
of the globe ; or whether the resistance of the rigid crust was only over- 
come at intervals by paroxysmal efforts. This latter Avas the view 
held by most of our early geologists, and is still the prevailing one 
abroad. 

It is not necessary here to deal with the first steps of the problem. 
Let us take it after, for exam[)le, the re-adjustment of the crust (when it 
must have been many miles thick) which resulted in the elevation of 
such a mountain-chain as that of the Alps; and here I must assume a 
point in advance. The resisting strata having given way to the ten- 
sion to which they had been subjected, a state of equilibrium and re- 
l)Ose would for a time ensue. As the secular refrigeration subsequently 
proceeded, the tangential force due to contraction resumed action ; and 
while certain larger areas were depressed, chiefly b^' the action of gravity, 

* The evidence of facts witli respect to the ghiciul ])eiio(l has led to the adniissiuu of 
a greater iutensity of cold ; so we contend that the evidence of the pas*^, at times, 
respecting the greater effects of heat, is equallj' definite. 



190 THE PAST AXD FCTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

otberaiul smaller portions of the crust, presenting less resistance, yielded, 
and rose at right angles to the tangential pressure. 

Now either, if the elevatory force were limited and uniform iu de- 
gree, a point would be reached at which that force was balanced by 
the increasing resistance and weight of the strata, and the movement 
would cease; or else, if the energy was a constantly-generated quantity, 
and the rigidity such as to prevent yielding beyond a certain extent, 
(and no solid crust can be perfectly flexible,) then it would be a dy- 
namical necessity that a time would come when, from the accumulation 
of that energy, it would overcome the resistance, and the opposing 
strata be suddenly rent and fractured. This primary resistance re- 
moved, the full power of the elevatory force would be brought to bear 
upon the disjointed mass, and the surplus energy expended in at once 
rapidly forcing forward and tilting up the now yielding strata along the 
line of fracture to that position and that height required to restore a 
state of equilibrium and no more. It is not i^ossible for any number of 
minor forces, where the ultimate resistance exceeds each one taken 
separately, to accomplish iu any time, however long, that which requires 
for its execution a major force of infinitely greater power. 

Either a minor force, if sufficient to move a given weight, will go on 
moving, or else, if from any cause a further or secondary and independ- 
ent resistance, such as in this case that dependent on the cohesion of 
the strata, has to be met, additional power must be brought to bear, 
which, if that secondary resistance be then overcome, the cumulated 
force, being far in excess of the residual resistance, will be immediately 
expended with energy in proportion to the magnitude of the resistance 
mastered. Thus, although a railway-engine could readily move ten car- 
riages, it could not move one hundred. It is true that if it were allowed 
to proceed with ten carriages at a time it could perform the removal of 
the whole in ten journeys, but if that were not practicable it w ould re- 
quire the simultaneous application, say of ten engines, to accomplish 
the same journey at one time, and by no other means could the inertia 
of the mass be overcome, although when once overcome the force em- 
ployed would be largely in excess of that required for traction only. 

Again, in the case of large faults traversing thick masses of strata, 
the conditions are nearly the same. For example, in the great Craven 
fault, which brings the disjointed edges of the Silurian rocks on a level 
Mith the disjointed edges of the Coal-Measures, the extent of displace- 
ment is in places as much as 4,000 feet, and the range of the fault ex- 
ceeds 50 miles. If we take the thickness of the strata so fractured at 
20,000 or any greater number of feet, it is not possible to conceive any 
small force ficting through any length of time to have effected their dis- 
ruption, unless it could be imagined that the fault had proceeded pro- 
gressivelj' with the gradual accumulation of the strata, which is impossi- 
ble. In any way, the fracture must have occurred suddenly at the 
moment the tension overcame the resistance of the mass ; it then neces- 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 191 

sarily follows that with the residual resistance reiluced to mere gravity, 
a displacement, eudiug iu a state of equilibrium of the fractured strata, 
would at ouce ensue, tbe amount of displacement being in proportion 
to the severity of tbe strain. 

Tbe results of the foregoing conditions are in perfect accordance with 
observation. The enormous crumpling and folding of the strata — tbe 
vast upthrow of their disjointed edges — indicate the energy of the forces 
which has been exerted, has been spent, and again accumulated. Of 
these forces, it is as difficult for us to realize the intensity as it is to 
fathom tbe immensity of space. These are among the questions for the 
future. 

While thus refrigeration progressed, and the shell of the globe became 
thicker, other causes came into operation to give it greater rigidity, and 
so better fit it for the habitation of man. 

In the many discussions to which this question has given rise, it has 
been too much assumed that the shell was of uniform or nearly uniform 
thickness; the irregularities of the upper surface were apparent, but 
those possible on the under surface have been scarcely sufficiently con- 
sidered. There is, however, I think, reason to suppose, from some col- 
lateral inquiries, tbat the under surface of the shell is ribbed and chan- 
neled in a manner and on a scale materially to influence the operation 
of that fluidity of the nucleus and mobility of the crust on which so 
many able and elaborate calculations have been based. 

Let us take, on a continental area having a mean surface-temperature 
of 55° Fahr., a point in the earth's crust throujih which an.v isotherm of 




depth passes— suppose it be that of 1,000°. This earth-isotherm will 
possibly be found at a depth of between 50,000 and 100,000 feet.* The 
isothermal plane must api)roximatively follow tbe contours of tbe sur- 
face, and in mountain-districts, M may rise some 1,000 to 4,000 feet above 
its other level. But when we come to seas, such as the Mediterranean, 
the sea-bed has the mean tempeiature of the surface, (or n>or8 correctly 
the mean temperature of tbe winter-months,) and tbe deptb of that bed 
being from 0,000 to 8,000 feet, the earth's thermal plane of 1,000° is 
thrown proportionally lower than on tbe adjacent land. 

*Tlu're is nsason to beliovo tlisit tlio niU) of iiicieiiso of tenipenituio of 1^ Fahr. for 
every 50 to Gf) foot of depth, which obtains near the surface, is, owing to the increased 
couductivo power of the rocks, tinfch less at greater depths. 



192 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

With the great oceans, O, other conditions come into operation which 
increase the difference, for the cold Arctic waters pass in an nndercur- 
rent from the poles to the equator with so little loss of heat that near 
the eqnntor a deep-sea temperature of 35^ Fahr. or even lower exists. 
Therefore, to the depth of the ocean, we have to add a depth equivalent 
to the ditference between the mean temperature of the adjacent land 
and that of the deep waters. In the Arctic zone, the temperature of the 
land is less than that of the sea, but as we approach the equator the 
former exceeds that of the latter at depths by as much as 40°, which is 
equal to a difference in depth of about 2,000 feet. The main channels 
of the great oceanic troughs in the tropics have a depth of 18,000 feet 
or more. If we add to this 2,000 feet for the difference of temperature 
between the surface and the sea-bed, and 4.000 feet for the rise under 
certain mountain-chains, we shall have a total of 24,000 feet as the 
approximate difference of level of the isotherm of 1,000° in adjacent 
continental and oceanic areas.* 

As the position of the other earth-isotherms will in like manner occupy 
successive planes approximatively parallel with the surface, whether of 
land or sea-bed, it follows that, if a central molten nucleus exists, it will 
be divided into areas separated by boundary lines no less important 
than those formed by the continental areas between the several oceanic 
areas on the surface ; and, as they are even more inclosed and isolated, 
their condition with regard to the possible existence of tidal action 
would approach more to that of an inland sea, such as the Mediterranean, 
where their influence is scarcely felt. It may be a question also whether 
the rigidit;y of the earth's crust is not influenced by this mode of structure. 
It must certainly have affected the permanence of continental and 
oceanic areas; in the one case by the convexity of the surface favoring 
elevation, and in the other by the concavity favoring gradual subsid- 
ence. 

Notwithstanding this,' it may naturally be asked, in view of the more 
constant slow changes and movements to which in past times the crust 
of the earth has been subject — and that even up to a period so geolog- 
ically recent as the elevation of the Alps* and the Andes — how it hap- 
pens that it is now so quiescent and comparatively immovable. The 
hypotheses both of Mr. Hopkins and Sir W. Thompson grapple with this 
difficulty. The former not only considered that the crust was eight 
hundred to one thousand miles thick, but he also supposed that there 
were only local and limited bodies of molten matter, the rest of the 
nucleus having become solid. The latter also concludes, though on other 
grounds, that the secular refrigeration, combined with the excessive press- 
ure, has led to a solidification, commencing at the center, of the whole in- 
terior of our globe;t while, as before mentioned, Mr. Mallet, admitting 

*Tho uuinbcis used are merely approximative. 

tTho Hev. Osmond Fislicr,on the other band, showed in 1873 (Geological Magazine, 
vol. X, p. 248) that on the supposition of a globe becoming solid throughout at the 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 193 

the principle of a solid crust of great thickness, has proi)ose(l a theory 
to account for the continued ejection of molten matter from depths not 
far beneath the surface, and acting independently of any common source 
of lava supply, by the conversion of the energy resulting from crushing 
into heat along given lines of intense pressure. 

It seems, however, to me that the uniform character appertaining to 
volcanic eruptions over the whole world, the traveling of earthquake 
movements, the flexibility yet evinced in movements of the crust, and 
the magnitude of the later geological changes, precludes the acceptance) 
of the conditions suggested by these distinguished physicists, and leads 
me to seek for other causes to account for the i)resent stable condition 
of the earth. 

The cause which suggests itself to me is the intense cold of the glacial 
period through which the earth has so recently passed, and which has, 
as it were, anticipated or forestalled the refrigeration which, in orduiary 
course, would have taken a longer time to effect, and so would have been 
prolonged into some subsequent period. At present, the annual varia- 
tion of temperature in these latitudes extends to a depth of about 30 feet; 
the maximum heat of summer being felt underground by the end of 
November, and the maximum cold of winter b^^ the beginning of June, at a 
depth of 20 feet. But supposing the cold of winter at dei)ths not to alter- 
nate with and be influenced by summer heat, then the abstraction of 
heat would continue to a depth in proportion to the length of time during 
which the cold at the surface was maintained ; and such must have been 
the conditions over a large portion of the northern hemisphere (and I 
believe of the southern contemporaneously) during the glacial period. 
For as permanent ice and snow then extended down to these latitudes, 
the summer sun would not sensibly affect surfaces so covered, and the 
abstraction of heat must have proceeded uninterru[)tedly. To what 
depth the effect may have extended has not yet been investigated, but 
that it must have been very considerable is evident from the depth to 
which the annual variations are now felt. Consequently, with a uniform 
permanent temperature of 32° or lower at the surtace, and considering 
the long duration of the glacial i)eriod, we may form some conception of 
how i'ar beneath the surface the extreme cold must have extended ; 
even now, in parts of Siberia, the ground is permanently frozen to a 
depth of 300 to 400 feet. Then the surface temperature in tliese lati- 
tudes, instead of commencing as now with a mean ot r)()o, and attaining 
a degree, say of 70^, at a depth of 1,000 feet, commenced with a tem- 
perature of 32° F. or less,. and the isothermal of 70° must have been 

melting tcmperatiuc, uiid aftcrwiird cooling as a solid, the amount of cnnuplings and 
contortions of the surface which could be produced by its subsequent refrigeration 
would be very much smaller than sufficient to account for the existing inequalities of 
the earth's surface ; and hence he concluded that such has not been the mode in wiiich 
the earth luis attained its present state, but that a crust commenced to form before the 
interior became solid. (See also Mr. Fisher's paper "On the Elevation of Mountain- 
Chains " iu Trans. Cambridge Phil. Soc. for 18G9, vol. xi, part iii.) 

S. Mis. 11a 1 a 



11)4 THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 

depressed below its present level to au exteut iu proportion to tbe dura- 
tion of the glacial cold. On tbe return of the present more temperate 
climate, that portion of the crust of the earth, measuring certainly many 
hundreds, and possibly some thousands of feet in depth, which had 
suffered from this abnormal loss of heat, would have to recover its 
equilibrium with existing conditions by another change in the isother- 
mal planes, and, until that was effected, little or no loss by radiation would 
take place. 

Or to look at it in another way, let us suppose periods of equal tem- 
perature before and after the glacial epoch. As the radiation of heat 
is in proportion to the difference of temperature between the warm body 
and the surroundiug medium, the loss of heat by the earth would, if no 
colder period had intervened, have been nearly equal in equal times ; 
but with the greater cold of the glacial epoch, the same result would be 
effected in a shorter time, or, what is tantamount, the loss in the same 
time during the glacial period would be greater than in the other two 
periods. Thus supposing we take any given time of the glacial period 
to be productive of a refrigeration of the crust equal to that which would 
be effected iu a certain longer time of the pre-glacial or post-glacial 
periods, then for a term of time — of length having a certain relation to 
the difference between the two — succeeding the glacial epoch, the earth 
would, with its outer crust so much below the normal, loose little or no 
heat by radiation, so that during that subsequent period the thermo- 
dynamical effects due to cooling would be reduced to a minimum or 
cease altogether, and a period of nearly stable equilibrium, such as now 
prevails, obtain. 

This last great change in the long geological record is one of so ex- 
ceptional a nature, that, as I have formerly elsewhere observed,* it 
deeply impresses me with the belief of great purpose and all-wise de- 
sign, in staying that progressive refrigeration and contraction on which 
the movements of the crust of the earth depend, and which has thus had 
imi)arted to it that rigidity and stability which now render it so fit and 
suitable for the habitation of civilized man ; for, without that immobil- 
ity, the slow and constantly-recurring changes would, apart from the 
rarer and greater catastrophes, have rendered our rivers unnavigable, 
our harbors inaccessible, our edifices insecure, our springs ever-varying, 
and our climates ever-changing ; and, while some districts would have 
been gradually uplifted, other whole countries must have been gradually 
submerged ; and against this inevitable destiny no human foresight 
could luive prevailed. 

*rhilosophical Transactions for 18(54, p. 305. 



THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GEOLOGY. 



195 






s 



« o 
,** ?: 
*S "^ 

«i » 

•5 S 
M II 

c ==- 
5a "5 5 

_5 S 

.2 j^ 
•r- "C 



B 

u 
rQ 



J3 



■siuiox 






O) cooo 

CO"— ■" CO 


3 


c; CO C3 

UO O IJ 
CI cv 


-H I/O CO 10 

Cl o r5 1^ 

CO — CO — 




to 
c^ 




CJ 




to 




•Bi[Buiniej5; 


to 


Qooinooooooooo 


~ 


o 


00 tc 

-H CI 




•saAy 


■v llouoooooooooo 


CO 


o c» 




•Bjnidaa 


tn 


cooromcoooi-cJioooo 

^ U^ -^ 00 r-t T-t r-l 


do 

C( 


o 


o 


•eaagij 


CO 
01 


(?» 0-. CO C5 <N IJ -r Q» rH 
T-l rH C^ rH 


CO 

00 


Tl" 


o 


•cpotloitjqdaQ 


m «ooiooo^mo*ot-<r» 

rH »-i CO ^ lO O 


o 


s 


o 


•cpodoiajscg 


lo 1 of^-rmoco-ftoooo 

CI OU O CO CJ -H CI J^ 1* o 


CD 

to 
cf 


to 


to 
o 
CO 


•B}U!q.)m;.i(iooio 
■njSI. pni! t!potlo.u)i<i 


c» 


1— lOOOOOt-^OOOOO 


i 


CO 


'^ 


•bubAcuiq; '-' 


ir5f-'oiramct~ocorHOJC> 

r^COCOOOCJ ©JOSCO O rn 
CC CJ CO rH rH 


CI 

CTj 

o 




•ttuA'tuonoj^ 


c» 


C01-OOC0005COITJOOO 
C; Oi »0 T-l ^J« C* CO 
rH CO rH 


to 

to 


t- 

§ 


CJ 


•ijpodoiqDBafi 


t- 


(Ur-oiOrHOOJooorsTD 

rHO OO C»00 CCrH 


CD 
CD 


Ira 


■* 


•BOZAIOJ 




!oCOOOOi=-»COOOrH 
LO O O » rH -r 


CO 


1 =o 


•B:>08eai 


<fc. 


OOIOCJOOOOOOO 




o 


o 


•B8ob;siu3 


CD 


coOrHlIOCOO^olO^-Ol^-Tf* 

CJ 'X' rH TT CI CI rH Ol O O 


110 
CO 

o 


CO 


t~ 


•Bipatiiqjjio 1 °' 


Tfiraot'rHoooocicio 

CICI 


to 


CI 


o 


■BpHonny § 


(^OrHI-OOLOCOCIrHtOd 
CO -V CO CI CO rH 


5; 


CO 


to 


•e^Btnaaponiqoa 


o 


r-^rH5<oocic>-HOocJ 

^V ^^ iZi CO CJ c- 


00 

to 


^ 


1 


•BiBiajaaicoo 


2 

■o 




f2 

UO 


s 


o 


•cpodoz 
•iqjl paB Bozo^oj J 


«5 

03 


or-ocior-t-ooooo 

to CO ■«• Cl rH 


OO 


o 


s 


•Bozoiidjomy 


c^ 


CI^OOOOLOCOC-. O-HTT 
-5< rn CI 


00 


CJ CI 


•GB}(IBIJ 


i 


-rr-ocorHoootoco-^o 

C> C( rS to rH CI Cl rH 

1 CI rH CO 


rij 


■>r o 
ro '-' 


I'oriod. 


e 

a 

a. 




a 3 

? I 

rH C 


e 

a 
r- 

i 




c. 

IT 


c 
tc 




c 

c 
c 


c 


c 

c 
c 

c 
V 

k 


c 


c 

c 
C 




c 

c 




? 
a. 

c 

"c 
c 
E- 




.£ 

o 
a. 

t-a: 
13 








"Ss 



ritJCO £3 

wSoS.s 

.S _ to 

Cjcd-Si-* 3 

a -3 



^ 5 



'A-~ 





S 


a 

o 


a 

t« 




Ch 


■^ 
















(T 




- 


tt 




t2 


S 


o 
p 








o 


,M 




o 


C3 




fe 










o 




B 


ei. 


-1 


fl 














o 

a 




cS 


c o 




a 


;:. 




•— ' 








1.- 








o 


o 






to 


TS 


u 


T> 






















rt 






g 








c; 




S 




3 


JH 






i; 


"A 


o 


O 












"a 


P^ 


t. 


H 


c 


H 


tt 


C3 


•^ 





. C3 

^3 









8-2 



00 a-;:; ♦^ 

ci'e^sa 

S; -5 X o rt 

i - 2 ^ 3 

'■^ 5 c n =5 

ow~t; s 

e J?-:: tj'« 



REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE FOR THE CONSIDERA- 
TION OF THE MEMOIR OF MR. HOFRATHES G. WEX, UPON 
THE DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 



[Presented Ai>ril 23, 1874, to the Royal Academy of Vieuua. — Translated from the Ger- 
man by M. A. Henry.] 



The special committee of the Imperial Academy, called at the request 
of Mr. Hofrathes Wex, and which that geutlemau was iuvited to attend, 
was composed of the following regular members: Feuzl, Jelinek, voa 
Schrotter, Stefan, and Suess; and held three sessions, on the 13th of 
October, on the 18th of December, 1873, and the 18th of January, 1874, 
during which the facts contained in the memoir of Mr. Wex, and the 
recommendations based thereon, were thoroughly discussed. 

As basis for the final conclusion attained by the commission, it seems 
advisable to give a short resume of the observations and deductions 
contained in the paper of Mr. Wex. 

The author first gives various data, from the second volume of 
Berghaus's statistics, in regard to the height of water, of the Rhine at 
Emmerich, of the Elbe at Magdeburg, and of the Oder at Kiistrin ; 
according to which the mean and lowest heights have sunk considerably 
in the course of time, while the high water is exhibited more frequently 
and in greater elevation. 

Dr. Berghaus was led, through the examination of the heights of the 
water of the Elbe and the Oder, to the conclusion that in both these 
streams the quantity of water, when at its lowest level, had considerably 
decreased, and expressed the opinion that these rivers threatened to 
disappear from the ranks of navigable streams if this diminution con- 
tinued in as great proportion as at that time, 1781. 

Mr. Hofrathes Wex arrived, through long years of observations, at 
the same result as Berghaus, and declared that there is a continued 
decrease in the water of the above-named rivers, and also in those of the 
Vistula and the Danube. His assertion excited objections on all sides. 

In opposition to it — 1. The imperial Prussian private government 
surveyor, F. Hageu, through measurements of the high and mean 
heights of the Rhine at Dusseldorf, found, it is true, a slight diminution, 
(on an average 2.9 and l.G lines a day,) he explained this, however, by 
the recent alterations made in the stream, which promoted the removal 
of the ice, and the escape of the high water. 2. The imperial hydrau- 
lic inspector, Maass, found from the record of 143 years of the observa- 
tions of the heights of the water of the Elbe, at Madgeburg, a consid- 

196 



DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 197 

erable sinking (of 17.35^ aud 34 inches) in the mean of high water and 
of low water, which he also attributed to changes made in the stream; 
the deepening of the bed, and the consequent increase in the velocity 
of the current. 3. The opinion was positively declared that the in 
recent times more abundant and rapid flowing of the high water would 
carry away sufficient quantities to account for the decrease in the mean 
and low water heights. 

The author next shows — 1. From the regular observations of the late 
Bavarian building-inspector, Grebenau, at Germersheira, of the heights 
of water of the Rhine from the highest to the lowest, continued during 
twenty-eight years, which give not only the height, but also the quantity 
of flowing water, that with the sinking of the mean of the levels there 
was also a decrease in the amount of water flowing through the rivers. 
2. That according to the observations of the commission of inspection of 
the Elbe River, the bed of the stream was deepest when the water-marks 
were highest, while on the contrary, when the mean middle aud lowest 
heights had sunken, the bed of the river had been raised by being tilled 
in with sand, so that the sinking of the water-marks at Madgeburg can- 
not be attributed to the deepening of the bed of the stream. 3. That 
the high water cannot compensate for the decrease in the quantity of 
water at the low and mean heights is proved by Mr. Wex, in the first 
place by the before-mentioned register of the water-heights at Souder- 
heim, according to which it is found that the decrease in the entire 
amount of water is very nearly proi)ortional to that in the water heights; 
and in the second place by the measurements for thirty-two years of the 
water-marks of the Danube at Alt Orsova, which show a decrease, not 
only in the mean and low, but also in the high water recorded, which 
Mr. Wex correctly attributes to the circumstance that, in the large 
tributary streams of the Danube, the water is high at different times. 

In reviewing the simple and evident facts given by our author, the 
commission came to the conclusion that the lowering in the mean and 
low water heights of the rivers mentioned, observed during the last 
hundred years, should be attributed to the decrease in the yearly amount 
of water. 

Mr. Wex now stated that the diminution in the amount of water in 
these rivers indicated a decrease in the productive jiower of the springs, 
and further i)roof of this was afforded by the lessening of the water in 
the brooks, aqueducts, and wells or fountains. 

The commission on this point were in full accord with our author, 
since they considered amply confirmed the conclusion that with the 
sinking of the mean of the low-water there was corresi)onding decrease 
in the springs and in all the water in the neighborhood of the rivers. 

The cause of this decrease in the copiousness of springs may lie — 1. 
In a diminution, owing to the advance of civilization ; that is, to the 
uprooting of the forests, in the yearly amount of precipitation. 2. In 
the increased evaporation from the surface of the earth, also due to the 



198 DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 

above-mentioned cause. 3. In this cbauj?e in the surface-condition of 
the earth, the amount of water precipitated, instead of being held in 
reserve and slowly percolating, rushes suddenly into the stream, and 
for a short time high water prevails, which is followed by a long period 
of dryness. 

The question of the influence of forests upon the amount of precipi- 
tation has for some time engaged the attention of naturalists. Such 
an influence has been asserted, partly from theoretic consideration 
and partly on account of the entire change presented by the climatic 
relations of the countries in which the forests have disappeared. It 
was at first supposed that the woods furnished for the rain-cloud an 
obstacle similar to that presented by mountain-ridges to cloud-currents, 
and condensed the watery vapor; also, that the lower temperature and 
greater relative humidity of the woods promoted precipitation. In the 
latter view of that subject, Dr. Berger, of Frankfort, especially made 
some careful comparisons between the temperature and humidity of the 
woods and that of the open fields. 

It is probable that such influence exists; but while, on the one hand, 
its consequence may be overestimated, on the otber hand there is want 
of direct proof, inasmuch as the rain-measurements have been continued 
too short a time, both at stations situated within the woods and outside 
of them in the open fields. Besides, the observations of the rain-measures 
cannot well be compared on account of the difference in the conditions, 
(variations in altitude, inclination of the surface toward different points 
of the compass, &c.*) 

On account of the great practical importance of the alleged decrease 
of the quantity of rain to the interests of national economy, the Me- 
teorological Society of Edinburgh, in the year 1859, at the suggestion of 
its president, the Marquis of Tweedale, offered a prize for the best in- 
vestigation of the question whether the amount of rain in Western 
Europe had undergone any alteration. The author of the article which 
gained the reward, Mr. T. F. Jamieson, found in the yearly measure- 
ments of rain-falls, to which he had access, no grounds for the appre- 
hension of a progressive decrease in the quantity. There ai)peare(l to 
be only local oscillations, to which it was difiicult to assign a cause. 

* Mollendoif compares, iu bis work, The Proportiou of tbo Kain-fall in Germany, 
page 95, the amount of rain for 1856-1858 of Neidcr-Bielan, with that of Tiefenfurt, 
(situated in the woods,) and found for the first 17 8 and for the last 21.8 par. inches; 
but he did not himself consider this result decisive. Professor Hoffman, iu Giessen, 
found that the rain-curves of three difi^erent situations in the woods were, for the 
entire year, parallel with each other, which says notbiug as to tbo alleged inUuence of 
the woods. — Journal of MeteoroJogy, vol. ii, p. 2151. 

As to the comparative observations of rain-deposits in the department of the Loire, 
which it must be admitted included only twelve months, Becqnerel found that the 
amount of rain precipitated in the neighborhood of forests was greater than at a dis- 
tance from them, in the proportion of 5 ; 4, (Comptes Rendus, t. Ixiv, ji. 16.) — Journal 
of Meteorology, vol. ii, p. 231. 



DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 199 

The action of the Meteorological Society of Edinburgh in this matter led 
to the institution of analogous investigations, and to the establishinent 
of a large number of rain-stations in Great Britain and Ireland, through 
the intervention of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science, which appointed a special committee for this puipose. Mr. 
G. J. Symouds undertook, in Loudon, the inspection of the stations in 
that city and the elaboration of tlie observations recorded. In most of 
the stations the observations examined by Mr. Symonds in the course 
of his investigations in regard to tiie question of a continual change in 
the amount of rain, extend back to January, 17l!(>; and for still older 
measurements, going back as far as Januaiy, 1GS8, we are indebted to 
the observatory of Paris. 

Mr. Symonds gives, in the Report of the British Association for 1800, 
page 287, a table of the rain-fall of England, taken from the registers 
of seventeen stations, ac(;ordiug to dates, which are introduced to show 
proportions. 

Periods. Amounta. PitIimIh. Amounts. 

172()— 1735 94.6 }q^ J 1800—1815 ^-^-'-JUg-a 

17;5G— 1745 78.7 5 * 181G— 18'25 10:5.1)5 

174G— 1755 78. G?^3j^ 182G— 1835 ^'^1- ^ hoO 8 

175G-17G5 88. 3 r "^ 183G— 1845 100. 2 5 

176G— 1775 103.6^gj^4 184G— 1855 100.0^^^^^ 

1776—1785 93.2 i'" 185G— 18G5 9G. 3 5 

178G— 1795 9G. G ? ,j.^ t, 
179G— 1805 98. 7 5 
In the Meteorological Annnaire of the central i)hysical observatory for 

1873, page 251, api>ears the following table of the yearly amount of rain 

in Paris, prepared by Marie Davy : 



Period. 


Amount. 


Period. 


Amount. 




mm. 




mm. 


1C88— 1700 


517 


1791—1798 


414 


1701—1710 


481 


1804-1810 


518 


1711—1720 


4<)5 


1811—1820 


49G 


1721—1730 


378 


1821—1830 


514 


1731—1740 


411 


1831—1840 


507 


1741—17.50 


420 


1841—1850 


529 


1773—1780 


540 


1851— 18G0 


520 


1781—1790 


507 


18(;i— 1870 


493 



Acciording to the observations in England and Eranc<e, there is no 
perceptible decrease in the yearly amount deposited, but after the lipse 
of ten years, oscilhitions in the rates of the rain-falls appear, the cause 
of which is at present uidvuown. It is rash to conclude from these facts 
that there is no alteration in the amount of said precipitations in West- 
ern Europe, and that in the interior of continents there is also no (change. 
Still the rain- measurements of the continental stations do not apjx'ar 
to indicate such a decrease, although, to be sure, they do not extend as 
far back as could be desired.* 

* In VMi Imperial Cciitnil Mctcorolof^ical Estiiblishriicnt artt thu raiii-inoa.smeiiioil.s of 
about 120 stations in Enropc and North Anierica, wliioh should bo in'v est 'gated with 
reference to this questiou. 



200 DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 

A similar result was arrived at by the investigation of the Smithsonian 
Institution of the rain-measurements in Xorth America, where, on account 
Oi the great extent of forest cleared away, a change in the proportion of 
the de[)osits might well be expected. 

In regard to the old rain-observations, it should be remarked that they 
were not taken daily, but at longer intervals of time, whereby their ac- 
curacy was considerably impaired. Besides, the rain-gauges were fre- 
quently not well placed, (upon roofs, towers, &c.) Both these circum- 
stances, taken together, might produce an appearance of decrease in the 
quantity of rain.* 

But although nearly two hundred years of direct rain- measurement 
furniish no proof of a progressive decrease in the quantity of rain, in 
"view of the facts presented by our author, (taken mostly from Milne 
Home's essay in the Journal of the Meteorological Society of Scotland, 
vol. 3, p. 35,) by Becquerel, Meteorological Atlas of the Observatory of 
Palis for 18G7, Journal of Meteorology, vol. 4, p. 86, and by others, and 
which appear to indicate a deterioration in the climate after the level- 
ing of the forests, it would not be just to consider this hypothesis of no 
importance. 

The commission consequently concluded that an influence of the woods 
upon the amount of rain deposited, and especially upon the yearly con- 
tribution, is probable, although direct observation does not give sufid- 
cient evidence to determine its extent, or positively its existence. 

The copiousness of the springs and the fullness of the rivers, more- 
over, do not entirely represent the amount of the yearly precipitation 
of water. On the one hand a portion is given back to the atmosphere 
by evajioration, and on the other a portion, determined in amount by 
the physical conditions of the ground, penetrates into the soil, and af- 
fords nourishment for the springs. The influence of the woods in both 
these teudeucies cannot be overestimated. 

Through direct observation in France and the forest meteorological 
station of Bavaria, it is evident that the oscillations of the temperature 
of the air are slighter in Ibrests than upon uuwooded ground. In the 
hours and years, particularly when the maximum of heat was attained, 
the sum total of the latter in the woods was much less than in the open 
fields. 

In accordance with this the temperature of wooded surfaces in the 
warm years is considerably lower than that of uuwooded surfaces.t 

*The factof the influenco of height upon tbe results of the iain-iuea«nies has frequent 
coutiimation ; for instance, in Mollendorf's work, page 102. it appears that of several 
stations the lower recorded from 13 to (50 per cent, more rain than the higher. 

t According to Ebermayer, the .yearly oscillations of temperature in the woods (SO'-'.O 
C.) are 7° C. less than in the open fields. The yearly maximum of temperature is found 
to 1)0 5'-'.2 lower. Likewise the daily oscillations of temperature in summer amount to 
50.9 C. less than that of the open fields. The temperature of the soil of forest-laud 
was, in summer, 40.O C. lees than that of the uuwooded soil. (Ebermayer's Physical 
Influence of the Woods, Journal of Meteorology, vol. 8, pp. 209 and 232.) 



DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 201 

lu like manner the proportional luunidity of the woods difl'eis from 
that of the open country, and at all seasons of the year is greater in the 
forests. * 

In consideration of these facts, it is not surprising that the evapora- 
tion in the woods is found to be far less than in the open fields, t Fur- 
thermore the evaporation does not depend only upon the temperature- 
bat also upon the motion of the air, which in the woods is proportion, 
ably much less agitated. 

It was now important to determine accurately the portion of the de- 
posit lost by evaporation, a very difficult matter, since the pro[)ortion 
obtained by the atometer is entirely different from that of the evapora- 
tion from the surface of plants, and from the soil. Besides, the propor- 
tionate results of the atometric measurements by which the evaporation 
of a water-surface is obtained are influenced by the different ways of 
placing the instrument, sometimes exposed to the sun and rain, some- 
times under shelter; by the difference in dimension of the evaporating 
dishes, and by the difference in the material of which the latter are 
compos«'d. It ought not to be surprising, under such circumstances, 
if an atometer of small dimensions, made of metal and exposed to the 
sun, givesyearly amounts of evaporation, which far exceed (2 or 3 times) 
the amounts of precipitation. 

On account of the difficulty of determining the amount of evaporation 
from the ground, and therewith the portion of the precipitation actually 
received by the si)rings and running water, this should be sought by 
coujpariug the quantities of water a stream carries away iu the course 
of a year, and determining the corresponding amounts of rain fallen 
within the drainage area of the stream; also on the other hand by 
endeavoring to measure the amount of water absorbed by a certain por- 
tion of earth, and the amount lost from a given stratum. | 

It' in the woods a considerable portion of the precipitation is received 
upon the twigs and leaves, the rest (according to Ebermayei', 72 per 
cent.. Journal of Meteorology, viii, 274) on this account remains longer 
in the woods, and has time to sink into the soil and supply the springs. 
This portion, at least that part of it not dissipated by evaporation, either 
sinks into the ground or Hows off" of its surface. In the first instance it 
serves especially for the supply of the springs; iu the second it is carried 
directly to the water-courses, and produces a brief, more or less con- 
siderable rising in the latter. 

* According to Eberiuayer, tlio dift'erence auiounts in tho four seasons, calculated 
from the spring, to 5.7, OM, 5.2, and 5.2 per cent. 

t According to Eberniaycr the evaporation from a surface of water in tlie woods was 
64 i)er cent, less tiian outside tlie .same. (Journal of Meteorology, vol. viii, ]>. 125:5. j 

I Molleudorf (The Kain-fall of Germany, p. 1:50-107) gives as the percentage of tlie do- 
posits not evaporated and entered into tho supply of the springs and rivers, for Eng- 
land, (4 determinations,) 31.7; for France, (2 determinations in mountainous regions,) 
65.1; for Germany, (5 determinations on rivers, 7 determinations on earth-boxes and 
artificial drainage,) 47.3 per cent. 



202 DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 

It must be generally acknowledged that forests, on account of their 
peculiar vegetation of lichens, mosses, &c., are preeminently qualified 
to absorb the precipitations, accumulate them, and give them up by 
degrees. 

In this connection are the observations which have already been men- 
tioned in regard to the water which penetrates the soil very slowly to a 
certain depth ; on the one hand, upon the receptive power of different 
kinds of soils, upon the influence of different plants with which the soil 
is covered ; on the other hand, upon the distribution in the soil of this 
penetrating moisture, as indicated l)y the yearly registers. It appears 
from the latter that the influence of the woods is greater in warm years. 

According to Ebernuiyer, the percentage of precipitation in summer 
was, at the depth of — 





s:'Si,™' 




One foot. 


One foot. 


Two feet. 


Four feet. 


lu tliG open fields . . . . . 


19 

r.2 


19 

72 


14 

65 


11 


lu the woods 


36 






Difference 


33 


53 


51 


25 







Older observations were undertaken by Maurice in Ghent, Gasparin 
in Orange, and some more recent, on a larger scale, were instituted by 
E. Kisler at Caleve, near ISTyon, (canton Wallis.) He sowed for the 
experiment a field containing 12,300 square meters with grain, clover, 
&c., determined the drainage at 0.35 meter depih, and compared the 
humidity of this soil with that of others cultivated under different cir- 
cumstances. ( Aunuaire Met^orologique de I'Observatoire de Paris, pour 
1873, page 277.) 

In reference to the ])ortion of the precipitation which does not pene- 
trate the soil but flows off the surface, and to which the rising of the 
water is esi>ecially attributed, there is no difference of oj)inion in regard 
to the influence of the w'oods. All admit that with the leveling of the 
latter, the supply of the water-courses flows in more rapidly, and that 
in mountainous regions the water drains off" so fast from unwooded 
steep declivities that the streams are converted into rushing torrents. 

To the cutting down of the woods and the consequent removal of the 
check they offered, through their interlaced roots, their mosses, lichens, 
&c., to the downfall of the rain, must be attributed the more frequent and 
destructive floods and inundations which are always to be dreaded. 

The fact of the diminution of water in streams, which diminution is 
connected with the cojjiousness of the springs which supply them, being 
admitted, the commission find the causes of this phenomenon : 1st. In the 
continued cutting down of the woods, whose salutary influence in the 
raising of the hygrometer, the amelioration of extreme temperature, the 



DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 203 

decrease of evaporation, and the proinotiou of a regular escape of the 
precipitation is evident, while the disadvantageous results of their 
removal is felt in the prolonged i)eriod of dryness on the one hand, 
and the destructive high water on the other. 2d. In the desiccation 
of the lakes, ponds, and bogs, which likewise raises the hygroiuetric 
conditions, decreases evaporation, moderates extreme temperature, and, 
lastly, through the fissures in the soil, directly promotes the formation 
of springs, od. In the cultivation of extended tracts of land, for the 
irrigation of which large quantities of water are required. 4th. In the 
increase of the i)opulatiou and the domestic animals, although the dim- 
inution of the water from this cause is relatively so small as to be 
unimportant, oth. Lastly, it seems to the commission that, in accord- 
ance with the opinion expressed by M. L. Saemann, that water is con- 
tinually absorbed in the interior of the earth, in the formation of mine- 
ral substances into which it enters as the water of crystallization, this 
telluric cause of the decrease of water is worthy of consideration. 

The commission concluded, in view of the data published by Mr. Wex, 
to support the recommendations he also gives in his report, as follows: 

1st. That the Eoyal Academy of Science shall call the attention of the 
Austrian government, and of the royal commercial and agricultural ad- 
ministrations, to theestablished fact of the continual decrease in the water 
of springs and streams, and also to the causes of this phenomenon, and 
endeavor to induce these high authorities to take into serious consider- 
ation the modes of record and the i)reventive measures proposed by Mr. 
Wex to check this deterioration, which threatens with dire calamity 
future generations, |ind induce them, by the i)ublication of suitable rules 
and regulations, to secure the accomplishment of the end to be desired. 

A similar effort should be made by the Royal Academy of Science to 
bring this subject to the knowledge of the countries belonging to the 
Austrian crown, which have in late years been more than ever occujjied 
in the clearing out of under-brush, the drainage of lakes, swam[)s, and 
moors, and, lastly, in the damming up of regions formerly inundated by 
the floods which, appearing with constantly-increasing frequency, must 
be accompanied by c()rresi)onding periods of drought and uufruitfulness. 

li. The Itoyal Academy of Science should send to the scientific insti- 
tutions of other countries, namely, Holland, England, France, Italy, 
Spain, IJussia, North America, and Brazil, a copy of the memoir of Mr. 
Hofrathes Wex, with the recpiest for communications of the yearly obser- 
vations of the water-heights of the rivers of the difi'erent countries. In 
this way water-height observations might be obtained which have not 
been i)ublished, abstracts of which might be made and graphically rep- 
resented, as in the nuunoir Just mentioned. 

3. Especially should th(^ government of the viceroy of Egy])t be 
advised of the wish ol" the lioyal Academy, so that of the observations 
of the water-heights of the Nile above Cairo, continued for oOO years, a 
copy, at least of those of the last 200 years, might be obtained, with 
similar tables and graphical representations. 



204 DIMINUTION OF THE WATER OF RIVERS AND STREAMS. 

4. The Eoyal Academy should express to th'e government the wish 
that in more streams, and in better adapted places, regular observations, 
not only of the water-heights but also of the whole amount of water 
flowing through a stream, might be made, in order that the i)roportion 
between the latter and the water-heights may be at least approximately 
obtained. 

The government, furthermore, should endeavor to draw the attention 
of the Hungarian and other foreign governments to the wish of the 
Royal Academy, that similar observations and inquiries might be insti- 
tuted in other countries. 

Vienna, April 23, 1874. 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 



Bv William B. Taylor. 



As ordinarily received by the ear, sound may be considered as an 
aerial impulse or succession of impulses radiating in all directions 
from tbe origin of disturbance, and consisting in the main of a small 
to-and-fro movement generating an expanding wave of comi^ression of 
determinate velocity, necessarily followed by a corresponding wave of 
attenuation. This vibration is a mass-movement of the air, and not a 
molecular movement ; and the surface or surfaces of similar phase of 
movement are equidistant from the origin ; or, in other words, the 
wave-fronts are essentially spherical. 

The transmission of sound through liquid and solid mediums, though 
similar in charactei", and subject to similar perturbations, will not hero 
be considered. 

Sound, while difl'ering widely from light in the character of its waves 
and their order of magnitude, yet thus moves like light in radial lines, 
and like light is diverted from its rectilinear course whenever its waves 
undergo an unequal retardation or acceleration ; that is, whenever any 
segment of a series of advancing wave-fronts (regarded as an acoustic 
beam) receives from any cause an unequal velocity on its opposite sides, 
such beam is bent toward the side of least velocity, and from the side 
of greatest velocity; the line of impulse or of acoustic effect being 
always perpendicular to the surface of the wave front. 

By sound-beams, or sound-rays, the longitudinal direction of sound is 
to be understood ; by sound-waves, the transverse surfaces of simul- 
taneous movement are to be understood. The amplitude of the wave- 
motion is very minute, being ordinarily a barely visible magnitude. It 
lies in the direction of the wave-length, or of the sound-ray. In the 
case of light, the ami)litude of vibration is transverse to the wave- 
length, or to the direction of the ray. 

If we imagine a symmetrical boat on a p(H-fectly still sea or lake, 
mechanically [>ropelled by oars of precisely similar character and move- 
ment, it is obvious that such a boat must advance in a perfectly straight 
course. If placed in a uiiilbrm current, the boat, though drifting with 
the current, would still maintain a rectilinear path. If, however, such 
moving boat were to enter a current, or to encounter a difference of cur- 
rent on its oi)posite sides, or were it to encounter water of different 
density, as by passing obliquely from salt-water into a margin of IVesh 
water, then, at the moment of transition, the oars meeting with unequal 

205 



206 THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 

resistances, the course of the boat would be changed, or •'refracted." 
This image may be taken as a rough ilhistration of the phenomenon of 
"refraction" generally. 

There are three different methods in which sound-waves passing 
through a gaseous medium may suffer such unequal disturbance of 
velocity: first, by variations of density in the medium, sound moving 
more slowly through a dense air than a rare one, the pressure being the 
same 5 second, by variations of elasticity in the medium, sound moving 
more swiftly with increase of elasticity, the density being the same ; 
and, third, by variations of motion or current in the medium, sound trav- 
eling by convection faster with the wind by a small percentage, accord- 
ing to its velocity, and more slowly against the wind.* 

There is no doubt that light also would be subject to all three of these 
forms of refraction, as its velocity is necessarily retarded by an increase 
of density in the medium, by a reduction of the elasticity of the medium, 
and by an adverse motion of the medium. 

A fourth cause of velocity disturbance in the case of sound is found 
in the temperature of the medium, sound moving more swiftly in a heated 
atmosphere than in a cooler one. This cause of acoustic refraction is 
practically a highly important one; though it may be theoretically 
resolved into one of the preceding conditions, since the only dynamic 
effect of heat on a gas is to increase its elasticity if the volume be con- 
stant by confinement, or to increase its volume if unconfined without 
changing its elasticity. 

The relation of these atmospheric conditions to each other is exceed- 
ingly simple. 

The density of a perfect gas (the inverse of its volume) varies directly 
as the pressure, the temperature being constant, or inversely as the 
absolute temperature, the pressure being constant. 

The elasticity of a perfect gas varies directly as the pressure, the den- 
sity being constant, or inversely as the density, the pressure being con- 
stant. It also varies directly as the absolute temperature, the volume 
being constant.t 

From these relations it follows that increase of atmospheric pressure 
does not affect the velocity of sound; ibr although the density is directly 
proportional to the pressure, and this diminishes the velocity, yet as the 
elasticity is also directly proportional to the pressure, and this increases 
the velocity by precisely the same amount, the two effects are neutral- 
ized. 

*The ratio of the velocity of the wind to that of sound (one or two per cent.) is too 
small to 1)0 of any account directh/. Differentially, it becomes very important. A uni- 
form wind has no practical effect on sound except to slightly llatten or lower the pitch 
in its own direction, and to sharj)eu or raise the pitch in tl)e opposite direction. 

t According to Waterston, "when air is compressed or dilated, the absolute tempera- 
ture varies as the cube root of the density, and the tension as the fourth power of tlio 
absolute temperature, or cube root of the fourth power of the density," {Iiep. Brit. 
Assoc, lb53, J). 1'^ of Abstracts.) This would indicate a striking departure from the 
condition of a perfect gas. 



THE REFKACTION OF SOUND, 207 

We have as tbe laws of sound -motiou in a perfect gas : 

1st. Its velocity is directly proportional to tbe square root of the elas- 
ticity of the air. 

2(1. Its velocity is inversely proportional to the square root of the den- 
sity of the air. 

3d. Its velocity is directly proportional to the square root of the abso- 
lute temperature of the air. 

Tbe theoretical case of luiequal elasticity of the medium, presenting 
no practical examples, excepting in tbe passage of sound from water 
into air obliquely, or from air into water, may be here neglected ; and 
t be remaining actual conditions of acoustic refraction are limited to three, 
\\z: those of density-inequality, wind-inequality, and teuqierature- 
iuecpiality. It is important to observe tbat the two fundamental princi- 
jiles underlying the discussion of acoustic refraction of wbatever origin 
are, lirst, that the directions of progressive impulse are always at right 
angles to the surface of tbe wave-front, and, secondly, that any deforma- 
tion of tbe spherical surface of tbe wave-front must accordingly deflect 
tbe line of acoustic proi)agation from its original radial direction. 

1. — REFRACTION FROM INEQUALITY OF DENSITY. 

In 1852, Mr. Carl Sondbauss was the first to demonstrate acoustic 
refraction, and be exhibited it by means of a lens of carbonic-acid gas. 

It may be here preuiised that, in accordance with tlie previous sum- 
mary, hydrogen, having at tbe })ressure of tbe atmosphere the same elas- 
ticity, should, from this circumstance alone, transnjit sound with tbe 
same velocity as ordinary air; but as its rarity is fourteen times greater, 
tbe velocity of sound in this medium is increased neaily four times, so 
that wbile at ordinary temperature (05o F.) sound in air would move 
over 1,125 feet in a second, or one mile in 4:.7 seconds, it would move 
over 4,250 feet per second (or one mile in 1| second) in an atmosphere 
of hydrogen. On the other hand, as carbonic ackl, at tbe same pressure 
and with nearly tbe same elasticity, has a density rather more than 50 
per cent, greater than air, it would retard tbe velocity of sound about 
onelittb, or reduce it to 912 feet per second, or one niile in 5.7 seconds. 

]\lr. Sondbauss first employed a thin membranous balloon formed of 
gold beaters' skin, but obtained more detnded results by forming the 
env«'lo[)e of a <louble convex iens with two spherical segments of col- 
lodion film, attached to a leaden hoop, in which were suitable openings 
lor tlie introduction of the gas. The ticking of a watch placed at some 
distance behind such lens was heard njost distinctly at a focal point in 
front of the lens. 

" In ord(T to arrive at a more certain decision, the experiment was 
arranged in such n)anner tbat whik^- tbe observer sat at the otber side 
of the lens with closi'd eyes and listened for the ticking of the wat(;h, 
tbe lens was alternately removed and again brought into position, 
wbereby it was shown that the ticking of the watch disappeared every 



208 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 



time upon the removal of the lens and was immediately audible again 
when the lens was replaced between the watch and the ear." — (Foggen- 
dorff^s Aimalen, 1853, Ixxxv, 381, translated and republished in the Phil. 
Mag. February, 1853, v, 75.) 
The accompanying Fig. 1, representing a vertical section of the gas 



12 3 4 




Fig. 1. — Carbonic-acid lens. 

lens through its center, will serve to give a more definite idea of the 
action it exercises on the sound-waves passing through it. For any 
small area, the wave-frout, at some distance from its origiu, may be con- 
sidered as practically a plane surface, and 1, 2, 3, &c., (Fig. 1,) may rep- 
resent the successive positions of a single advancing wave-front. On 
entering the convex surface of the carbonic-acid lens at its central 
point a, the wave-face is at once retarded, and successive annuli of the 
wave passing the surface at increasing degrees of obliquity, the Ibrm of 
the wave front becomes concave, as shown at 3 and 4, advancing concen- 
trically according to the law of normal impacts, with a uniform though 
retarded velocity, as shown at 4, 5, G, 7, &c. On emerging first from 
the outer margin of the reversed convex surfiice h, the wave-front is 
accelerated in passing into the common air, and meeting the boundary 
of the same obliquely becomes still more concave, as shown at 8, 9, 10, 
&c. Advancing concentrically, its impulses converge with uniform 
velocity, but increasing energy, toward a focal point, /. 

It is obvious that if this convex envelope were tilled with hydrogen, 
the action would be just reversed, as shown in Fig. 2. The wave of 
sound, on entering the convex surface c, would be accelerated (com- 
mencing at the middle) so as to acquire a continuously convex front, as 
shown at 5, 6, &c. Passing through the second surface, d, and being 
retarded in a reverse order, the wave-front would advance with an in- 
creased convexity, as seen at 8, 9, 10, «&;c., giving a general divergence 
of the sound-rays, the focus being negative. 



THE EEFRACTION OF SOUND. 



209 



It follows tliat to obtaiu a focal convergence by means of a bydrogen 
lens, we sbould have to employ a concave form, as shown in Fig. 3. In 



1 2 




Fig. 2. — Hydrogen lens, (a.) 

this case, the outer annulus of the wave on entering the projecting sur- 
face of the lens g^ as at 4 and 5, would be hurried forward into a con- 
cave form, as shown at 5 and 6, having a general center of convergence 
at about e. On emerging from the second surface, /t, (supposed here to 




Fig. 3. — Hydrogen lens, (&.) 

be a plane,) the wave, by oblique retardation, as shown at 7, would be 
somewhat flattened, as at S, 0, 10, &c., extending the focal point of con- 
vergence to/. The eflect of a double concave surface to the lens would 
be to shorten the focal distance according to the degree of concavity. 

2. — REFRACTION FROM INEQUALITY OF WIND, 

In 1857, Prof. G. G. Stokes showed that differences of motion iu the 
air must exert a bending influence on the beams of sound, and that this 
S. Mis. 115 14 



210 



THE EEFRACTION OF SOUND. 



deflection presented the only satisfactory explanation of the familiar 
fact of observation that sound is usually heard many times farther in 
the direction of a wind than in a direction opposed to its action. His 
explanation of this phenomenon is as follows : 

"If we imagine the whole massof airin the neighbourhood of the source 
of disturbance divided into horizontal strata, these strata do not all 
move with the same velocity. The lower strata are retarded by friction 
against the earth, and by various obstacles they meet with ; the upper 
by friction against the lower, and so on. Hence the velocity increases 
from the ground upward, conformably with observation. This difference 
of velocity disturbs the spherical form of the sound-wave, tending to 
make it somewhat of the form of an ellipsoid, the section of which, by a 
vertical diametrical plane parallel to the direction of the wind, is an 
ellipse meeting the ground at an obtuse angle on the side toward which 
the wind is blowing, and an acute angle on the opposite side. Now sound 
tends to propagate itself in a direction perpendicular to the sound-wave ; 
and if a portion of the wave is intercepted by an obstacle of large size, 
the space behind is left in a sort of sound-shadow, and the only sound 
there heard is what diverges from the general wave after passing 
the obstacle. Hence, near the earth, in a direction contrary to 
the wind, the sound continually tends to be propagated upward, 
and consequently there is a continual tendency for an observer in 
that direction to be left in a sort of sound-shadow. Hence, at a 
sufficient distance, the sound ought to be very much enfeebled ; but 
near the source of disturbance this cause has not yet had time to oper- 
ate, and therefore the wind produces no sensible effect, except what 
arises from the augmentation in the radius of the sound-wave, and this 
is too small to be perceptible. In the contrary direction — that is, in the 
direction toward which the wind is blowing — the sound tends to propa- 
gate itself downward, and to be reflected from the surface of the earth ; 
and both the direct and reflected waves contribute to the effect per- 
ceived."— (JKep- ^rit. Assoc, 1857, xxvii, p. 23 of Abstracts.) 



:^^a& ' >. 




Fig. 4. — Vental relractiou. 
This action may be illustrated by Fig. 4, in which the larger arrow 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 211 

above indicates the direction and force of the wind, and the two smaller 
arrows below the diminished force of the wind in the same direction, by 
reason of the increasing resistance and retardation toward the surface 
of the earth. The result is a flattening of the waves at the left side 
and a swaying of the waves forward on the right side, thus giving the 
radial lines or sound-beams a curved form, (as shown bj^ the lower lines 
I i and i A,) these being always perpendicular to the wave-faces. As 
this curvature or refraction is necessarily upward against the unequal 
wind and downward in the direction of the wind, an observer at k will 
hear with great distinctness the sound emanating from i, while an ob- 
server on the other side at j will hear nothing, by reason of the sound- 
beams being tilted above his head. By rising to an elevation, as at I, 
the observer will hear the sound as well against the wind as with if. 

It is not a little surprising that an explanation of a well-marked and 
puzzling phenomenon, so elegant and so conclusive as that promulgated 
by Professor Stokes, should have remained for fifteen years unnoticed 
and unthought-of by the scientific world. When in 1865 Professor 
Henry discovered that " a sound moving against the wind, inaudible to 
the ear on the deck of a schooner, was heard by ascending to the mast- 
head, this remarkable fact at first suggested the idea that sound was 
more readily conveyed by the upper current of air than the lower." 
And this general idea seemed confirmed by the observation that with 
the upper and lower currents at variance the upper wind appeared to 
most favor the sound. Nor was it till early in 1872 that the full signifi- 
cance of all this became apparent on first learning of the explanation 
given by Professor Stokes. And yet during the same series of obser- 
vations. Professor Henry discovered that the velocity of wind in the 
higher regions of the air was much greater than in the lower regions. 

In like manner, Professor Reynolds having, in the si)ring of 1874, 
independently arrived at the same theory, and undertaken a series of 
experiments and observations in this direction, remarks: "I had just 
reached the point of making such tests, when I discovered that the 
same views had been propounded by Professor Stokes so long ago as 
1857."— (Proc. R. S., 1874.) Professor Reynolds made the decisive 
observations that in the direction of the wind, the sound of a bell could 
be as well heard at a distance, with the head depressed as when stand- 
ing; while against the wind, the sound at no great distance ceased to 
be heard, passing over the head, and could be regained in full force by 
elevation. It was found also that the elevation required to reach the 
lowest sound-beam increased with the distance. 

If we suppose the wind near the surface of the earth (or at G 'eet 
above it) to be moving at the rate of six miles i)er hour, (one mile in 10 
minutes, or 8.8 feet per second,) and at the elevation of 1,000 feet to be 
moving in the same direction with just double the velocity, then a ver- 
tical wave-front of sound in moving 4.7 seconds, or one mile, against 
such wind would be retarded 41 feet near the ground, and 82 feet at 
the height of 1,000 feet. This difference of 41 feet would so tilt the 



212 THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 

wave-face backward that a line perpendicular to it would have an up- 
ward direction of about 2° 21'; or, an arc described with a radius of 
24.39 miles would represent approximately the upward curvature of a 
horizontal sound-beam, whereby at the distance of a mile it would be 
lifted up about 108 feet. A wave-front of sound moving in the direction 
of the wiud would, of course, be correspondingly accelerated above, 
and the beam bent downward in a similar arc. 

A wiud blowing along the face of an extended bluff or cliff, being re- 
tarded near the same by friction, would, in a similar manner, cause a 
sound originating near it to be laterally refracted toward the wall in 
the direction of the wind, and from it in the opposite direction. 

When, from any cause, the upper wiud should move more sluggishly 
than the lower wiud, as sometimes occurs, the lines of refraction above 
indicated would be reversed, and we should have the exceptional case 
of sound being favored by an opposing wind, and vice versa. 

This very simple principle of vental refraction has thus a wide prac- 
tical range, and the variety of its applications is limited only by that 
of the actual differences in force and direction of the winds. In short, 
in the case of any divergence between the upper and lower currents, in 
whatever direction, there will be but two lines of no refraction. In all 
other directions, a positive or a negative resultant must to some degree 
disturb the direction of the acoustic ray. 

In consequence of the slight internal friction (or " viscosity ") of air, 
the shadow-line is not usually very sharply defined. Wave-impulses act- 
ing laterally on the adjacent air cause the sound to be feebly heard within 
the shadow-line ; and the sound-beam is thus practically diffracted 
around an obstacle to an extent which is probably some function of its^^ 
intensity or energy. The effect of this, in the case of a refracted beam, 
is to diminish somewhat its apparent curvature, and thus to render an 
uplifted sound sensible to a greater distance than it would be on a merely 
geometrical theory, or without such marginal diffusion. 

From the same cause the following practical results follow : 1st. A 
continuous sound, as of a horn or steam-whistle, requires at a distance 
a short but appreciable interval (a second or more) to be heard with its 
full power; 2d. Hence, with adverse winds^j sounds of single impulse,^ 
as those of bells and guns, are more refracted than continuous sounds, 
whose initial impulses are re-enforced by rhythmic successions, giving 
them greater persistence of force and direction ; 3d. It is unnecessary to 
add that sounds under such circumstances (with beams of convex cur- 
vature) can be heard to a greater distance w hen originating from an ele- 
vation, and also when observed from an elevation ; 4th. It is probable 
that sounds of high pitch are more refracted than medium tones and 
those of lower pitch. 

3. — REFRACTION FROM INEQUALITY OF TEMPERATURE. 

In 1874, Prof. Osborne Reynolds pointed out a third practical cause of 
acoustic refraction in the differences of temperature to which advancing 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 213 

waves of soimd are frequently subjected. He remarks: "Although 
barometric pressure does uot affect the velocity of sound, yet, as is well 
kuowu, the velocity of sound depends on the temperature, and every 
degree of temperature between 32° and 70° adds approximately one foot 
per second to the velocity of sound. This velocity also increases with 
the quantity of moisture in the air ; but the quantity is at all times too 
small to produce an appreciable result. This vapor nevertheless plays 
an important part in the phenomena under consideration ; for it gives 
to the air a much greater power of radiating and absorbing heat, and 
thus renders it much more susceptible of changes in the action of the 
sun. ... It is a well-known fact that the temperature of the air 
diminishes as we proceed upward, and that it also contains less vapor. 
Hence it follows that, as a rule, the waves of sound must travel faster 
below than they do above, and thus be retracted or turned upward." — 
{Proc. E. S., 1874.) 

Professor Eeyuolds cites observations showing that on a calm clear 
day in July, 1873, while the sun was shining with great power, loud 
sounds which could be heard but two or three miles were heard several 
times this distance toward evening after the sun had become obscured 
with clouds. " Here we see that the very conditions which actually 
diminished the range of sound were precisely those which would cause 
the greatest lifting of the waves." 

This furnishes a satisfactory explanation of the familiar fact that 
sounds heard during the day-time to comparatively short distances (es- 
pecially in summer and with still air) are audible many times as far in 
the night. " Humboldt could hear the falls of Orinoco three times as 
loud by night as by day at a distance of one league ; and he states that 
the same phenomenon has been observed near every waterfall in 
Europe." Humboldt also remarked that the heating effect of the sua 
was so great that " all distant objects had wavy undulating outlines, 
the optical effect of the mirage. Not a breath of air moved the dust- 
like sand. The sun stood in the zenith." — ( Vicics of Nature, Bohn's ed., 
p. 200.) Dr. Gregory, in his experiments on sound, undertaken in 182-4, 
observed that, on January 9, in the evening, with no wind stirring, 
" the sound of the same charge fired from the same musket was heard 
much more intensely on this clear frosty night than in the day-time of 
January 3, at the same distance, 3,G00 feet." — {Phil. Mag., 1824, Ixiii, 
404.) 

Fig. 5 illustrates this effect of heated lower strata of air in tilting 
up the beams of sound in all directions. If we suppose the horizontal 
lines to mark spaces upward, of 100 yards each, into which the air is 
arranged by strata of diminishing temperatures of 3 degrees each, but 
increasing more rapidly near the surface, (75°, 70°, 07^, 04°,) then near 
the ground (at 75°) the liorizontal sound-beams will travel 5 feet per 
second (or 23.5 feet per mile) faster than at the line n of 70°, or the 
height of 300 feet ; at this line, 3 feet per second (or 14 feet per mile) 



214 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 



faster tliau at the line o of 07°, or the height of GOO feet ; and at this line 
the same quantity faster than at the line ^9 of 64°, or the height of 900 
feet. The result is that a vertical wave-front 900 feet deep would, at 
the distance of one mile, be advanced at its lower part more than 51 feet 
beyond its upper part, making an angle of about 3^°; and the corres- 
ponding upward curvature of the lower sound-beams emanating from. 
tn (the versed sine of this arc) would amount to about 150 feet. 



64" 



64c> 




670 



70O 



7=iO ! 1 



67° 



70^^ 



Fig. 5. — Thermal refraction. 

If the temperature of the lower strata of air were found to increase 
only at half the rate above assumed, the lower sound-beams from m 
would be lifted one hundred and fifty feet in about two miles. If the 
differences of temperature were reduced to one-fourth, this amount of 
upward tilt would be reached in about four miles, &c. 

From this it is apparent that temperature-refraction — the upward 
" dishing" of the lower sheet of sound by the overheating of the lower 
air — is not only a real phenomenon, but that in quantity it introduces 
a very considerable amount of disturbance in the direction of sound, 
and thus imi)airs seriously its audibility at any great distance on the 
surface of the earth. 

In further illustration of the same i^rinciple, no less notable is the 
converse effect of an excess of cooling in the lower strata, occasionally 
noticed. Professor Keynolds, continuing his researches " On the re- 
fraction of sound," during the summer of 1875, found that, on the 19th 
of August, " after three weeks of cold and windy weather," the sea 
and the adjacent air being chilled considerably below the average or 
upper temperature, sound passing over the water reached the observers 
in a boat with such remarkable clearness that " guns, and on one occa- 
sion the barking of a dog, on the shore, eight miles distant, were dis- 
tinctly heard, as were also the paddles of a steamer fifteen miles dis- 
tant. The day was perfectly calm ; there was no wind; the sky was 
quite clear, and the sun shining with great power." The significant 
circumstance is recorded that " all the time distant objects loomed con- 
siderably, i. e., appeared lifted." In this case, " the diminution in the 
temperature of the air being downward, the sound instead of being 



THE REFRACTION OF SOUND. 215 

lifted as it usuall^^ is, was brought dowu, and thus intensified at the 
surface of the water, which, being perfectly smooth, was thus converted 
into a sort of whispering-gallery." — {Proc. E. S., 1876.) 

This action is illustrated by Fig. 6, in which the temperature of the 
air below the horizontal line q r, being gradually less toward the earth 
than above the line, the sound-waves originating at s are shortened lat- 



FiG. 6. — Refractiou by cold. 

erally (or in the direction of the lower rays) about one foot per second 
for each degree of refrigeration, and the sound-beams (always perpen- 
dicular to the waves) are thus gradually bent downward. 

The remarkable distances to which sounds have sometimes been 
heard in Arctic regions receive here a satisfactory explanation. " Lieu- 
tenant Foster, in the third polar expedition of Captain Parry, found 
that he could hold a conversation with a man across the harbour of Port 
Bowen, a distance of 6,696 feet, or about a mile and a quarter." — (Sir J. 
Herschel, Sound, sect. 21.) The same author remarks of the polar 
regions : '' In consequence of the intense cold of the icy surface, con- 
trasted, as it sometimes is in summer, with the warmth of the air, the 
phenomena of atmospheric refraction are exaggerated in these regions 
in a most extraordinary manner; the forms of ice-bergs, rocks, etc., are 
seen drawn up in vertical altitude, and spread out at their apparent 
summits laterally, so as to present no resemblance to their real form." — 
(Sir J. Herschel, Physical Oeography, sect. 98.) From which we learn 
that the optical deportment of the air may very often be accepted as an 
index of its acoustic condition. 

In the play and interaction of these two great and prevalent modes 
of acoustic refraction — that resulting from co-existent differences of 
wind in varying directions and that from co-existent differences of tem- 
perature — whether re-enforcing or checking each other, or leaving a dif- 
ferential resultant, we have abundant opportunities to exercise the 
judgment and discrimination of the most diligent observers. Professor 
Eeynolds noticed that on some clear nights in May and June, 1875, 
when a heavy dew indicated considerable refrigeration at the surface, 
*' the sound could invariably be heard as far against a light wind as 
with it," showing that the upward refraction from wind was completely 



216 THE KEFKACTION OF SOUND. 

counteracted by the downward refraction from diminution of tempera- 
ture. This was observed not to be the case when the cloudiness of the 
night prevented terrestrial radiation and the deposition of dew. — {Proc 
B. S., 1876.) 

It has thus been shown in the course of this discussion, that while 
the refraction of sound as illustrated by gas lenses, still retains its 
original interest as a striking class-experiment, the far more important 
examples of acoustic refraction constantly presented by the infinitely 
varied conditions of differing air-currents and of differing air-tempera- 
tures, have until very recently, attracted no attention, and their prac- 
tical significance has been strangely overlooked. 



ON THE ORGANIZATION OF LOCAL SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 



A letter from Professor Henry ^ Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

* * * " In answer to your question, as to the plan of organi- 

zation and operation of a scientific association, I submit the following : 

" The object of your society being, as you inform me, to cultivate ' sci- 
entific taste and knowledge among its members,' this object should be 
kept constantly in view, and care be taken that it be not interfered with 
by a tendency to waste the time of the meetings in the discussion of 
irrelevant matters, especially those which relate to the government and 
organization of the establishment. 1 have been a member of several 
societies which failed to effect their object, by endless discussions on 
points of order or propositions as to the constitution and by-laws. 
There is in this country a tendency to express little thought in many 
words, to cultivate a talent for debate, or the art of making the worse 
appear the better cause, which is by no means favorable to either the 
increase or the diffusion of knowledge. The object of your society is not 
that of a mere debating club, but that of an establishment for the real 
improvement of its members in knowledge and wisdom. 

" It has been from the first the policy of the Institution to encourage the 
establishment of such societies, on account of the great advantage they 
are to their members in the way of intellectual and moral improvement, 
as well as in the way of positive contributions to science. 

" Such an association is an important organization for the advance of 
adult education, and the diffusion of interesting and useful knowledge 
throughout a neighborhood. The society must, however, be under the 
care of a few enthusiastic and industrious persons ; it should adopt the 
policy of awakening and sustaining the interest of the greatest num- 
ber of persons possible in its operations, and for this purpose the meet- 
ings must be rendered attractive; care should be taken to provide a 
series of short communications on various subjects, on which remarks 
should be invited after they have been read ; clergymen, lawyers, physi- 
cians, farmers, mechanics, and others should all be pressed into the 
service, and eftch solicited to contribute something, the object being to 
make the special knowledge of each the knowledge of all. I once 
belonged to a society conducted on this plan, which is still in existence, 
and of which I had the pleasure of attending a meeting about ten years 
ago ; and by way of ilhistrating what I have said, permit me to mention 

217 



218 ORGANIZATION OF LOCAL SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 

the proceedings on the occasion ia question. First a. number of miner- 
alogical specimens were presented and described, next a short iiaper 
was given on the local geology of the vicinity, and then a brief lecture 
on astrology, in which the process of casting nativities was described. 
This last subject, which, on first thought, might appear beyond the 
capacity of the majority of an ordinary audience, proved to be a source 
of interesting remarks, in which nearly all participated. This arose 
from the fact that astrological ideas and usages survive in modern civil- 
ization, and each one was enabled to give an example of ideas and usages- 
still existing in different parts of the country, as to the influence of the 
moon in various processes of agriculture, on disease, and even in relation 
to the survival of astrology in our language, and general superstitions. 

" The farmer should be encouraged to bring to the meeting specimens- 
of the various botanical productions which he meets in with agricul- 
tural operations, as well as specimens of the different soils of which his 
farm is composed. These should be referred to a committee, and their 
names and peculiarities given at a subsequent meeting. If a plant or 
a mineral or an animal is unknown to any member of the association 
a specimen of it may be sent to this Institution, where it will be ex- 
amined, and, after being properly labeled, returned. 

" The mechanic should be encouraged to give accounts of the processes 
which he employs, or of any facts which he may have observed of special 
interest in the course of his operations. 

" In short, all the members should be induced to observe, and also be 
instructed as to the method of observation. It is of vast importance to 
an individual that he be awakened to the consciousness of living in a uni- 
verse of most interesting phenomena, and that one very great difference 
between individuals is that of eyes and no eyes. 

"What I have said relates to the uses of a local society in the improve- 
ment of its members; but the imi)ortance of an establishment of this 
kind should not bo confined to the mere diffusion of knowledge. It 
should endeavor to admnce science by co-operating with other societies 
in the institution and encouragement of original research. Thus it 
can make collections of the flora and fauna, of the fossils, rocks, min- 
erals, «&c., of a given region, of which the location of the society is the 
center, and thereby contribute essentially to the knowledge of the gen- 
eral natural history of the continent. It can also make explorations of 
ancient remains and collect and jireserve the specimens of the stone-age, 
which still exist in many parts of our country, and to which so much 
interest is at present attached. Further, it can induce its members to 
make records of meteorological phenomena, many of which, of great 
interest, can be made without instruments, such as the times of the 
beginning and ending of storms, the direction of the wind, the first and 
last frost, the time of sowing and harvesting, he appearance and dis- 
appearance of birds of certain kinds, the time of the blossoming and 
ripening of various fruits, &c. ; and, as soon as the means of the 



ORGANIZATION OF LOCAL SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES. 219 

establishment will afford, a series of meteorological observation should 
be entered upon with a perfect set of instruments. 

"In order, however, to give still greater interest to the society, it should 
make arrangements in due time for the publication of its proceedings, 
to be exchanged for the transactions of other societies at home and 
abroad, the foreign exchange, if desired, to be made through this Insti- 
tution. 

" I beg leave to assure you that the Smithsonian Institution will be 
happy to cooperate with your society in every way in its power." 



ETHNOLOGY. 



INTERNATIONAL CODE OF SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-HIS- 
TORIC ARCHAEOLOGY. 



Translated by Otis T. Mason. 



[Fiom the supplement to the eleventh number of Mat6riaux pour I'Histoiro Primitive 
et Naturelle de I'Homme, 1875.] 

Many systems of symbols for arcbceological charts have been devised 
by those engaged in this study. They have failed to become popular, 
because they were understood only in the idiom wherein they were 
written, or they have been so mixed up with geology on the one hand 
and with history proper on the other, as to become far too complex for 
popular use. 

The first attempt to invent a set of international symbols was made 
by the Archaeological Section of the Scientific Association of Cracow, 
in the appointment of a commission for this object, with Count A. 
Przedziecki as its president. This distinguished scholar presented to 
the fifth session of the International Congress of Anthropology and 
Prehistoric Archaeology, held at Boulogne, 1871, a full report of the 
results of the labors of this commission. It will be found in the report 
of that meeting. 

A committee was appointed to examine and to report upon this paper. 
The committee was composed of MM. E. Cartailhac, C. Marinoni, J. da 
Silva, H. Hildebrand, Count A. Przedziecki, V. Schmidt, and Count G. 
Wurmbrand. The author of the scheme having died soon after the 
meeting at Boulogne, the committee never met, and the project was 
dropped. 

In pursuance of the learned Pole's labors, M. Ernest Chantre pre- 
pared a chart of a portion of the Khone basin, with a new system of 
symbols. This chart he presented to the next meeting of the Congress 
at Stockholm, 1874. At the session of August 14 the congress took 
into consideration M. Chantre's " Projet de 16gende iuternationale pour 
les cartes arch6ologiques pr(3historiques," and charged its executive 
committee to nominate a commission to discuss the project and to fix 
upon a definite system. The commission consisted of: Capelliiii, Italy; 
Desor, Switzerland; Dupont, Belgium; Engelhardt, Denmark; .lohn 
E%'ans, Great Britain ; H. Ilildebrand, Switzerland; Leemans, Holland; 
P. Lerch, Russia ; G. De Mortillet, (although absent,) France ; F. Komer, 
Austria; Yirchow, Germany. 



222 ETHNOLOGY. 

The commission met August 15, and selected M. Capellini chairman. 
Their first act was to add M. Ernest Chantre to their number. After 
a long and animated discussion at Stockholm, a subcommission was 
appointed, consisting of MM. Mortillet and Chantre, to prepare an inter- 
national code of symbols, taking into account the discussions which had 
taken place. In addition to this, the commission reserved to themselves 
individually a i^eriod of three months in which to prepare and send in 
their own views. 

Papers were sent by MM. Engelhardt, John Evans, Leemans, P. Lerch, 
F. Eomer, and Edward Dupont, who also transmitted a note from M. 
Tan der Maelen, author of the Archseological Chart of Belgium. 

Aided by these excellent papers and by the learned discussion at 
-Stockholm, the subcommission have been able to finish their honorable 
task. 

They divide their work into three chapters : 
Chapter I. The Charts. 
Chapter II. The Symbols. 
Chapter III. The Colors. 



CHAPTER FIEST. 
THE CIHAETS. 

§ 1. Sj)ecial charts. 

Wherever it is possible, charts prepare«l especially for the purpose are 
decidedly preferable. 

Scale. — In choosing the scale for a chart we must be governed entirely 

by the purpose in view. The scale will vary according to the number 

^nd variety of the sites which we design to indicate. Generally, a large 

scale is preferable, because it enables us to multiply the marks of location, 

and to make them more exact and easy of identification by archaeologists 

who wash to visit the monuments and to become acqnainted with the 

facts. The large scale charts are inconvenient, however, in two respects. 

The first is scientific. They cover so little ground, and separate the 

places of discovery so widely, that we are unable at a single glance to 

observe the relations of the parts to the whole. The second is economic. 

In enlarging the scale the price increases rapidly in proportion. This 

naturally diminishes the number of purchasers, and consequently retards 

the progress of science. In choosing our scale wo must bear in mind 

these two facts. If we desire to exhibit a small locality in minute detail, 

a large scale is preferable. If we wish to give a comprehensive view of 

a large district, a small scale is best. In fnlfilling these conditions, other 

things being equal, that scale is best which is most favorable to the pur- 
chaser. 

Topografphy.—ln an archaeological chart it is not necessary to make the 



SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-HISTORIC ARCILEOLOGY. 223 

topography as proraineut as in a geographical chart. Where the topog- 
raphy is toomarlicd the archaeological signs are obscured, the signs and 
the colors not being sufficiently distinguishable. Indeed, it is possible 
that the dark shade of the topographical i)ortions might render the exact 
location of the archaeological symbols impracticable. 

In remedying this inconvenience, we mnst not go to the other extreme 
and efface the topography so completely as to render it difficult to lay 
'down the symbols. The chart is also in this way rendered so pale as to 
be disagreeable to the eye. But that which is still more misleading is 
the impossibility in such cases of appreciating certain laws of archaeo- 
logical distribution in relation to valleys, plateaus, plains, mountains, 
forests, and marshes. The best plan is to have the chart contain all the 
topographical data, but in feeble tints. The sheet should be prihted in 
a legible manner, in a gray, bistre, or sepia color, rather than in black. 

Boutcs and names of places. — In charts designed specially for prehis- 
toric archieology, the highways, railroads, and ev<?n byways, might be 
laid down. These are indispensable in locating the explorations of the 
country, ni directing to special diggings, and in guiding archaeologists 
who wish to visit the sites. These indications of roads would be disad- 
vantageous only in cases where we wish to trace the ancient highways, 
and even then this objection might be obviated by the use of different 
colors for different epochs. As to the names of places, it is not neces- 
sary to give any in addition to those which belong to antiquities, with 
the exception of a few, perhaps, which are indispensable as points of ref- 
erence in guiding our study of the chart. 

§ 2. Government charts. 

The execution of a special chart is very expensive. Very often, most 
frequently, indeed, one does not possess the means to have them drawn 
and engraved. In such cases one must have recourse to charts already 
accessible. They are not very expensive, although they are often over- 
charged with other matters. Sometimes we have the good fortune to 
possess such a map as that of the French commission, which is not thus 
marked up. We have in such a case only to put the letters or the s^m- 
bols where we wish them. 

These chart reports may be luid not only of whole districts, but of 
small sections. These sheets may be combined in any way, or a special 
district may be made up by cutting parts from two or three charts. 
Nearly all enlightened countries have excellent charts on a large scale, 
which can be easily obtained. 



224 ETHNOLOGY. 

Such are, for example, those of the following table : 



Country. 


Scale. 


Sheets. 


Country. 


Scale. 


Sheets. 




1 : 63360 
1 : 144000 
1 : 288000 
1 : 432000 
1 : 50000 
1 : 500000 
1 : 20000 
1 : 40000 
1 : IGOOOO 
1 : 144000 
1 : 288000 
1 : 432000 
1 : 80000 
1 : 80000 
1 : 320000 
1 : 864000 
1 : 100000 
1 : 250000 


110 
31 
31 

2 
112 

3 
450 
72 

4 
38 

4 

1 

81 

274 

33 

4 
67 

4 




1 : 144000 
1 : 288000 
1 : 432000 
1 : 86400 
1 : 50000 
1 : 250000 
1 : 50000 
1 : 126000 
1 : 100000 
1 : 12G000 
1 : 100000 
1 : 100000 
1 : 200000 
1 : 100000 
1 : 250000 
1 : 50000 
1 : 200000 
1 : 400000 


198 




Do 


17 


Do 


Do 


9 


Do 




52 




Ancient Sardinia 


91 


Do 


Do 


6 






62 


Do 




60 


Do 


Prussia 

Russia 


319 




792 


Do .. .. 


28 


Do 


Sweden 

Do 


233 




28 






26 


Do ... 


Do 


4 


Do 




55 




Do 


4 


Do 


Do 


1 









CHAPTER SECOND. 

THE SYMBOLS. 

§ 1. Qualities of the symbols. 

The symbols of prehistoric archaeology, in order to become general and 
international, ought to be — 

1. Simple. — They must be as simple as possible, so that they can be 
traced upon a chart by any one, even if he have no experience in draw- 
ing. Simplicity is necessary, not only for the making of the symbol, but 
still more for its easy reading. Complicated signs take up too much 
room, and are too difficult to draw with accuracy. 

2. Trenchant. — They must be distinct, one from another, an indispensa- 
ble conditiou to the easy and rapid reading of the chart. They ought 
to present the greatest diversity possible consistent with simplicity. 

3. Special. — They should not be those already in use for other purposes, 
especially in general topography. For example, the small circle would 
be an excellent sign for prehistoric stations, but since it is in use for 
actual stations, cities, towns, villages, &c., according to the scale, it 
must be rejected. Its employment would render the distinction of pre- 
historic sites impossible in cases where only black color is used. 

4. Universal. — They must be recognizable by all nations. This rejects 
the employment of initial letters — words, and consequently initial letters, 
varying in different languages. 

o. Mnemonic. — They must call to mind the object which they repi-e- 
sent. Count Alexander Przedziecki, in his series of symbols, proposed 
at Boulogne, introduced such signs as a Lumau skull, a stag's horn, a 
little house on piles, »&c. While the mnemonic character has been re- 
tained, the symbols have been laid aside as too difficult to draw. 

G. MultipUahle. — It is impossible to limit in an absolute manner the 
number of symbols. It ought to be larger or smaller, according to the 
scale of the chart, and the simplicity or complexity of each separate work. 



SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-IIISTORIG ARCHAEOLOGY. 225 

The signs sliould form a specios of nlpbabet, out of which new words 
niij;lit bo created when the occasiou arises. With this iu view, we have 
distributed them iuto three series, suflicieiit for all our needs : ihc radi- 
cals^ the derivatives, and the complemcnturics. 

§ 2. liadical sijmhols. 

Tlie radicals are the sinii)lest symbols, characterizin.G^ ^i'eneral facts, 
the salient points of prehistoric arclueologj. They can be modilied easily, 
and so combined as to form new symbols, more or less numerous, as the 
case may demand. Nine radical symbols will sufllce for the prehistoric. 



Cavern, souterrain, shelter. 
/\ Menhir, iiillar, standing-stone. 

/ K Dolmen, alleecouverte. 

<^^ Tumulus, mound. 

\__y Sei)nlture, human remains. 

I j Camp, entrenchment, oppidum. 

rrm Palatltte, pile-dwelling. 

/\ Discoveries, stations, hearths. 

'T i\Iine, quarry, digging. 

At the first view these symbols are recognized as simple, and they 
can be made universal. They are as trenchant as possible. The only 
ones which have any resemblance are : cavern and tumulus, but the 
former is a portion of an elongated ellipse, higher than wide, the other 
is an arc of a circle, and much wider than high ; menhir and find, both 
triangular, but the former is an oblong isosceles triangle, the latter is 
equilateral, furthermore, the base of the menhir extends beyond the 
sides, producing a very niarked difference ; dolmen and palalitte, in 
the dolmen there are two supi)orts, visibly inclined, while there are four 
or five beneath the i)ahilitte, and all are i)erpendicular. Furthermore, 
the upper line or table of the dolmen passes by the supi)ort, while the 
upper line of the palafitte does not. They are special, having no 
analogues in ordinary charts. It was for the ])nipose of fulOlling this 
condition that the symbol for camp, instead of being a closed scjuare, is 
partly open on one side. We have rejected the closed square, because it 
is often employed in ordinary charts as a sign for a castle or a tower, 
and the square entirely open on one side serves to designate the ruins 
of a castle or a tower. 
S. Mis. lly Lo 



22G ETHNOLOGY. 

These signs are, on tlie whole, mnemouic. Of the uine radicals, eight 
are as much so as possible : the opening of the cavern, the pillar-stone, 
the dolmen, the tumulus, the se])ulchral fosse, the enceinte, the pile- 
dwelling, and the mining-hammer. There remains only the symbol for 
finds f but it was impossible to make this mnemotechnic. We have, 
therefore, agreed upon the symbol most generally employed, one pre- 
viously proposed by M. Chantre in the Frojet d'un Legende Internationale^ 
and which has received the approbation of the congress. 

Finally, these signs are multipliable, as we shall proceed to show in 
the following section, devoted to derivatives. 

§ 3. Derivative syjnbols. 

The radical symbols which form the base of the system, and which 
indeed would suffice on maps of a small scale and for general purposes, 
ought to be capable of such multiplication as is demanded by a chart on 
a larger scale and with greater specialization. It is this more refined 
analysis which calls forth the derivative signs. These ought to be, as 
much as possible, only the evident modifications or simple combinations 
of the radical symbols themselves. We shall give successively the tables 
of derivative signs, proceeding in each from the radical which forms the 
starting-point. 

1. Radical cavern, souterrain. — The caverns, grottoes, souterrains may 
be either natural or artificial. It is imi)ortant to distinguish between 
these two classes. The radical symbol may be used in both cases; open 
ibr the mouth of the artificial caverns, which are generally smaller and 
better illuminated ; dark for the grottoes and natural caverns, which 
are deeper and more obscure. 

B[ Cavern, grotto, natural shelter. 

n Grotto or souterrain, of human construction. 

Natural sepulchral grotto. 

VY Artificial sepulchral grotto. 

jTTj Subterraneous refuge. 

The study of sepulture being of the highest importance in archeology, 
the sepulchral grotto should be distinguished, which can easily be done 
by combining the symbol, natural grotto or artificial souterrain, with the 
radical sepulture. 

Finally, the subterraneous refuge or fortification is designated by the 
symbol artificial souterrain, combined with the radical enceinte or fortifi- 
cation. 



SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-HISTORIC ARCmT:OLOGY. 227 

2. Radical isienhir, piUar-stone, monolUh. — This radical, recalling vividly 
the true menhir or standard stone, should remain as a symbol of this 
kind of monuments. 

The alignmcut or the avenue of stones, rude or dressed, is designated 
hy the radical menhir above a line parallel to its base. 

The cromlecli or enceinte of standing stones is indicated by the radi- 
cal menhir, around the base of which is a semicircle of dots. 

The radical menhir, surniounted by a short inclined line, represents 
the rocking-stone: with a dot in the middle, a hollowed stone; with a 
broad dark base, a rock with runes, inscriptions, or sculpture. 

Finally, the stones with legendary inscriptions, the origin of which is 
more or less obscure, are iudiciited by the radical colored dark. 



A 
A 



A 
A 



True menhir or worked monolith. 

Serii^s of menhirs, alignment, avenue. * 

Cromlech or enceinte of stones. 
Rocking-stoue. 

Hollowed stones. 

Sculptured or inscribed stones. 

Monument, rune. (Pierre a legende.) 

3, Badical dobncn.— The, radical dolmen is sufficient for all the series 
of monnnients which belong to this group, embracing allees couvertes, 
gallery-graves, &c. By combining this radical with that of tumulus 
we obtain the symbols of a dolmen under a tumulus, and of a dolmen 
over a tumulus. 

7 ^ Dolmen, allee coiiverte. 
/?=^ Dolmen under a tumulus. 

j:::\ Dolmen over a tumulus. 

4. Radical tumulus.'— In this group the first symbols are easily com- 
]>reliended. The tumulus of sepulture is composed of two radicals, tumu- 
lus and fjravc ; the fortified tumulus, mound of observation, foundation 



228 ETHNOLOGY. 

of a tower or castle, earthwork sarroauded by a Dioat or an entrencb- 
ment, are all denoted b^' the association of tbe radicals tumulds and 
enceinte. 

The long barrows of Great Britain are represented by the radical tu- 
mulus with a circnlar depression in the top. 

Thr tumnli of Hungary and liussia, which often inclose chambers of 
wood, may be shown by a dark square in the center. A mound sur- 
mounted by a colossal statue may be represented by a tumulus symbol, 
on the top of which is the sign for a sculptured menhir. 

To the tumulus belong really the class of objects called mardelles. 
Although this is a term rather vsigue in its application, it is nevertheless 
the reverse of tumulus, and may be represented by the symbol in- 
verted. 
/^^ fSiaiplc tumulus. 

y-^ Sepulchral mound. 
1^^ Fortified tumulus. 

C:^ Long barrow. 

^^•WN Tumulus inclosing a wooden chamber. 



A 



Tumulus surmounted by a monument. 



T^37 Mardelle. 

5. Radical sejnilturc. — The radical sepulture may likewise be combined 
with other radicals. A variety of readings may also be given to it by 
the use of complementary signs, thus: an inclosed line parallel to the 
bottom indicates sepulture by inhumation. A small black dot, standing 
for a mass of charcoal, indicates burial by incineration. 

Cemeteries are denoted by the same synibols, to which are added the 
sign plus to show that many graves are grouped together. 
N — / Simple sepulture, accidental burial. 

\=3^ Sepulture by inhumation. 
"NJLy Sepulture by incineration. 
\*±/ Cemetery by inhumation. 

V»V Cemetery by incineration. 

G. Radical camp, enceinte, fortification.—ThQ radical crtw;; , &c., serreg 
for all fortified inclosures, whether they are entirely surrounded by 
defensive works, ditches, or embankments, or have the earth-work on 



SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-IIISTORIC ARCILEOLOGY. 229 

one side only, and arc protected on the rest by escarpments or water- 
courses. 

Frequently the enceintes are accompanied by tumuli or mounds of 
observation ; they are then indicated by the combination of tlie radical 
with that of tumulus. 

Sometimes we find, especially in Hungary, defensive works which are 
not inclosed at all. They are long lines of entrenchment, and may be 
represented by the radical with a line parallel to its base. 

j j Camp, enceinte, oppidum. 



fi 



Enceinte with tumulus. 



j I Fosse, rampart, longitudinal defense. 

7, Radical palajitte. — Th is radical sufiices for all this class of monuments, 
lacustrian and palustriau stations, true pile-dwellings, cranoges, «&o. 

8. Radical discovery. — As we have before mentioned, the radical dis- 
covery is a purely conventional sign, w hich is in no wise muemotechnic. 
It is reserved to mark the localities of isolated finds. Its derivates are 
rendered as muemotechnic as possible. 

For the localities of groups of objects, sometimes called treasures, 
cachettes, &c., two radicals are joined into a lozenge. When this is 
colored, it designates an atelier or foundery. Stations, habitations, «&c., 
are indicated by two radicals forming a six-pointed star. It is the near- 
est to round, which, in ordinary topographical charts, marks places of 
actual habitation. 

There are two kinds of stations which the palaioethnologists of Scan- 
dinavia aiid of Italy desire to see represented by special symbols ; they 
are the kjokkennjoddings of the north and terramares (marl-beds) of the 
south. These stations, generally in the form of maraelous or mounds, 
are indicated by the radical discovery, three in a group, forming a trun- 
cated triangle ; in the symbols of kjokkeninodding the middle triangle 
is colored and the outer two are plain, and in the terramare the outer 
two are colored and the inner one is plain. 

A Discovery of isolated objects. 
Zi Discovery of objects in masses. 



♦ 



Atelier, foundery. 
Station and habitation. 
Kjokkenmodding. 
Terramare, (marl-bed.) 



230 ETHNOLOGY. 

9. Radical mine, quarry. — As iu the case of palafittes, tlie radical 
mine or quarry needs no derivatives. Indeed, it seems to be necessary 
to justify its use at all. This symbol may be very handy iu prehistoric 
charts to indicate the source whence materials, such as silex, sand- 
stone, amber, jade, and other minerals and rocks are obtained. For 
example, a dolmen is constructed of rocks not to be found iu its imme- 
diate locality ; the symbol mine is placed at the nearest point where the 
materials iu question are to be fouud, and a line is drawn from this 
spot to the dolmen, to show the connection of the two. 

§ 4. Completnentary symbols. 

The complementary symbols are simple signs, which, in combination 
with the preceding, render archoeological identification as complete as 
possible. In the execution of the chart, they play a part analogous to 
the accents and punctuation-marks in writing. These complementaries 
are grouped iu three categories: the first relates to the state of preser- 
vation iu which the monuments are found; the second to the number 
of ruins, &c.; the third relates to their age. 

First category — The state of the monuments. — This category embraces 
four symbols. The circle under a symbol indicates that the site has 
been explored. The oblique line crossing the symbol designates a dilap- 
idated monument, menhirs tumbling over, &c. The double-diagonal 
crossing upon the symbol indicates the site of monuments entirely iu 
ruius or destroyed. Finally, a short oblique line on the right side of 
the symbol points out false identifications, wrong references, &c. 



Cavern. 



xJ. J^ J3. jL Artificial souterrain. 




4 AX A 


Menhir. 


'7^ 7\^ ^ 7-^ 


Dolmen. 


^ ^ ^ ^=y 


Tumulus. 


St±/ nM/ s^y s^A^ 


Cemetery by iuhumation, 


^ ^ % ^ 


Camp. 


nrn fV ^ rmy 


ralafitte. 


igk ^ M A^ 


Terramare. 



SYMBOLS FOE CHARTS OF PRE-IIISTORIC ARCII.T::0L0GY. 231 

Second category — Xumher of monuments. — This category embraces cer- 
tain sigus placed like the expouents in matliematics at the side of the 
principal, on the right of the upper part. If the number of objects is 
knowu, it may be expressed in ligures; if not, the sign iilus is used to 
denote plurality, and the double plus to mark a great number. 

Several. Many. Definite number. 

VY (J \\ ^ Artificial sepulchral grottoes. 

^17* x:z^'^'^ «^37 9 Mardelles. 

\^9_r * \±J'^ \_£V27 Burials by iucincration. 

Third category — Age of the monuments. — In fact, the respective ages 
of mouuments should be denoted by different colors, as we shall see in 
the following chapter. Where prehistoric facts can be indicated by one 
color only, because labor is an item, or because the symbols are to be 
placed on a general chart, or because the different colors arc used to 
indicate historic epochs, political and administrative divisions, geolog- 
ical strata, &c., it is necessary to add certain complementary sigus, 
which are to determine the age. 

r Palaeolithic age. 

\ Neolithic age. 

T Bronze age. 

9 Iron age. 

As may be seeu, these signs proceed from the most simple to the more 
complex, as civilization advances. They are to be placed on the raiKcals 
or the derivatives; or two or three of them maybe grou])ed upon a 
symbol belonging to two or three different ages, as a cavern wherein are 
found palajolithic and neolithic remains, and implements of bronze. 



Palajo- 

lithic. Xeolitliic. Bronze. Iron. 



A A A A^^ 



Cavern. 

iud. 
Station. 



In case where the age is uncertain, the interrog;ition point may bo 
added. As to the position of the finds in lakes, turbaries, mountains, 
plains, forests, &c., we need not make any provision, since the topo- 
graphical signs already in use furnish these indications. 



232 ETHNOLOGY. 

CHAPTEE III. 

COLOES. 

The employmeut of complementary sigus to designate age, altbougli 
tliey are simple and easily used, has the inconvenience of complicating 
the definitive symbols, and consequently of overcharging the chart. 
The age-signs should be used, therefore, only when we can do no better. 
They may be replaced, as Mr. Chantre proposes in his scheme, by desig- 
nating the age of the monument by means of different colors. This 
method has the additional advantage of being more easily read at a 
single glance, and of suggesting the whole truth to the mind without 
an effort. 

The difficulty is to find four colors sufficiently distinct, trenchant, 
and unalterable by natural and artificial light. By distinct colors we 
mean those about which there would be no dispute. They are blue, 
green, yellow, and red. Gray, rose, mauve, and violet are less distinct, 
and their adoption would give rise to numerous tints which, iu time, 
would be difficult to distinguish and characterize. For these reasons 
they are laid aside. 

For the easy reading of the charts, it is indispensable that the colors 
employed should be distinct. After numerous trials we have come to 
the conclusion that those best adapted to our purpose, the black being- 
left for topography, lire blue, green, red, yellow, lake, and bistre or sepia. 

The last-naujed color being often employed in topography, as we said 
in the chapter on charts, ought to be dismissed from the list of symbols. 
Lake ought also to be set aside on account of its fading out in the light. 
Employed on the labels of the museum of Saint-Germain it becomes 
lighter and lighter, until in five or six months it disappears altogether 

The first four colors remain : blue, green, red, and yellow. Against 
the last named, a grave objection raised by the northern archaeologists, 
who are obliged to labor a great deal by artificial light, is that they 
have great difiBculty iu distinguishing this color. But this muy be 
remedied by using a yellow-brown. Therefore the yellow will remain de- 
voted to the pah^eolithic age, which being little or not at all manifested 
iu the north, is a study of least importance directly to the archaeolo- 
gists of that region. 

The blue and the green are also sometimes confused by artificial light, 
but it is possible to find shades of these two colors which can be dis- 
tinguished with sufficient ease both by artificial and natural light. The 
red does not present a single objection. 

The colors chosen, after careful trials are the four already indicated 
by Mr. Chantre, with some change of function. 

Palteolithic age Yellow-brown. 

iseolithic age Green. 

Bronze age lied. 

Iron age Blue. 



SYMBOLS FOR CHARTS OF PRE-IIISTORIC ARCHEOLOGY. 233 

"We bave just given tbe reason why ibe brown-yellow was assigned to 
tbc palaiolitbic age. As regards tbe metals we bave connected tbem as 
mncb as possible witb ninemotecbny. Tbe red is assigned to tbe bronze, 
tbe principal element of wbicb is red coi)i)er. Tbe blue is relegated to 
tbe iron, wbicb fieqnently reflects tbat color. Tbese tints are so natural 
tbat tbey were always employed by tbe Egyptians many centuries ago. 

Tbese are the results at wbicb wo bave arrived in studying tbe sub- 
ject tborougbly, and on all sides, starting witb tbe " Projet de Legende," 
and taking into account tbe discussion of tbe commission appointed by 
tbe International Congress at iStockbolm, as well as tbe learned commu- 
nications of several members. We submit witb confidence, to all arcbre- 
ologists wbo are occupied witb prebistoric studies, tbis collective work, 
wbicb is sufficiently simple, distinct, and precise for all tbeir needs. 

Tbe subcommission, 

GABRIEL DE MORTILLET. 
EENEST CHANTEE. 






f.. 



CERTAIN CIL^PwVCTERISTICS PERTAINING TO ANCIENT MAN IN 

MICHIGAN. 



By Henry Gillman. 



In a former paper, entitled "The Monndbuilders and Platycuemism in 
Micbigan," and which was printed in the Smithsonian Eeport lor 1873, 
reference was made to the discovery by the writer of perforated humeri 
in the mounds on the Detroit and Eouge Rivers, Michigan. In a subse- 
quent paper* occasion has been taken to give some fartlier statements 
in regard to tliis peculiarity ; its being a characteristic of platycnemic 
man, as thus absolutely established, being dwelt on as of importance. 

The humeri from these mounds presenting the curious feature referred 
to I have calculated as being, at the least, 50 per cent, of the entire ; 
which is of much interest taken in connection with the fact of the ex- 
traordinary development of platycuemism afforded from the same source. 
The perforation is considered to belong to only 31 per cent, of the humeri 
from the mounds in other parts of the country, and, as has been stated, 
is a Simian characteristic, which, significantly enough, is found to per- 
tain in the largest degree to the lower races of man, while it is very 
rare or almost absent in the Caucasian. 

The term " perforation" of the humerus, as applied to this form of arm- 
bone, in which the fossne at the lower end are found to communicate, is 
certainly an unfortunate one, a misnomer, and, as suggestive of artificial 
origin, calculated to mislead, though it is not easy to propose a substi- 
tute. 

In this connection I have thought it may prove of interest to figure 
some of these specimens found by me at the Rouge River ; and in the 
accompanying cut (Fig. 1) I give a representation of the lower extremity 
of a perforated left humerus from tlie Great Mound there, to which I have 
so often had occasion to refer. It is of full size, and the posterior sur- 
face is shown. 

This is a good example of the peculiarity, the opening being large 
and strongly defined; and though the bone is apparently of great antiq- 
uity and much decayed, the proximal end having totally disappeared, 
the articular surface is well preserved all along the outline of the aper- 

*■ "The Ancient Mou of the Great Lakes," by Henry Gilhnan. Head before the De- 
troit meeting of the Amocican Association for the Advancement of Science, August 16, 
1875. See note, " Perforation of the Humerus conjoined with Platycnemism," American 
Naturalist, vol. ix, x). 427. 

234 



CIIAKACTERISTICS TCKTAIXING TO ANCIENT MAN 



235 



tnre, clearly (leriiiiiigits nuture, and establisliiu^- the genuiiieiicss of tliu 
specimen as an instance of the characteristic. 

In Fig. 2 is illustrated the inferior extremity of a right humerus from 
the same mound. In this, tlie opening, though snuiUer, is as well devel- 
oped as in the first example, and the hone, though of about the same 

Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 





Inferior extremity of perforatedlcffc 
liiiiiierns, from Great Mouiid, liont;c 
Kiver, Micliif^iin. I'osiorior surface ; 
full size. 



Inferior extremity of perforated 
riyht linmenKs from Great Mound, 
Ivoiij^e River, Michigan. IVsteriorsur- 
face ; full size. 



226 ETHNOLOGY. 

age and greatly decayed, (being equally defective as to the loss of the 
Tij)per end,) from the various evidences presented by it apparently 
belonged to a different individual. 

It is remarkable that so many of the humeri from this mound are 
fractured at or toward the middle of the shaft, the proximal end being 
wanting. An entire humerus is extremely rare, and the upper end is 
seldom found. This cannot in ever^^ instance be due to decay. Such 
cumulative testimony can hardly be relegated to the category of mere 
coincidence or accident. But as to whether it may point to cannibal 
pro[)ensities, or some superstitious rite or custom, perhaps connected 
with the sepulture of the deceased, I am unable at present to determine. 

As 1 have elsewhere stated, " 1 also find in the Eouge Mound transi- 
tional states, if 1 may so call them ; tliat is, instances in which the 
communication between the fossfe is not quite completed, the dividing 
wall being reduced in some cases to a very thin partition, almost trans- 
parent. Even where the perforation is accomplished, there is a great 
variation in the size. and shape of the aperture." I think I may safely 
say that the more marked cases of the peculiarity are alfor<led by the 
more ancient of the humeri ; while the instances in which the opening 
is greatly reduced in size, or the partition separating the fossae is more or 
less strongly defined, are witnessed chiefly in the more modern of the 
bones; thus indicating the gradual elimination of a characteristic of, I 
believe, unquestionably degraded affinities. 

It might be of importance could this singular characteristic be traced 
to its origin. The predominance of tlie perforation (associated with 
other degraded traits) in the chimpanzee and gorilla, as well as in the 
lower races of mankind, would suggest, if not a common ancestry in 
the remote past, at least some i)redisposing cause common to both the 
ape and the savage, and this connected with the use of the arm. 

For example, man, in a barbarous state, has, as is well known, under 
certain circumstances largely the habit of " going on all iburs." In the 
adult of the higher races, this is never seen. (It is needless to refer to 
the suggestiveness of the creeping propensity as displayed in the infant 
offsi)ring of even civilized man.) The invention of various mechanical 
a{)i)liances forbid, and cause to be abandoned forever, the grosser uses 
to which this noble member of the body had been formerly applied ; 
so that at length, with the ameliorating influences of civilization, a 
more highly and finely educated hand and arm are produced, with cor- 
responding development. 

But, perhaps, it may be considered that (without implying such were 
wanting) it is unnecessary in this case to insist on any special cause or 
causes; that the gradual disappearance of the peculiarity under con- 
sideration is only part and i)arcel of the general grand evolution, that 
moving onward and upward, in which, as the great poet of our day has 
expressed it, we 

"Ltit the aj)e and tiger die." 



CHARACTERISTICS PERTAINIXG TO ANCIENT MAN. 2oi 

111 here piesentin<»' some illnstniti-oiis of the nrtifieiall.v-ixnfoMm'd 
skulls, of \vlii(;h I y,tive an account in my pai)ei' on "The Ancient Men 
of the Great Lakes," and from which a notice was jninted in the "Anieji- 
can Naturalist" for August, l<S7r), I shall not scmple to avail myself of 
a part of the material there used, adding- such further inlbrmation as 
lias since come to my knowledge. 

This artificial perforation of the top of the craninm, made after death, 
seems to me to betoken a singular ])ractice connected with the burial- 
ceremonies of the aboriginal inhabitants of this country, and of which 
I can find nothing on record in the books, notwithstanding the remark- 
able nature of the custom and the indubitable marks which would 
remain to testify in instances where it had been adhered to. 

The circular aperture, evidently made by boring with a rude (probably 
stone) implement, varies in size, in some skulls having a diatneter of one- 
third, in others one-half or three-quarters of an inch or more, and 
beveled or flaring at the surface. It is invariably placed in a cettial 
position at the vertex of the skull. 

The first instance of its being brought to my knowledge was in the 
year 18G9, when I took from the Great Mound on the liouge River two 
fragments of crania, each of which exhibited this iierforaiion. A skull 
recently presented to the museum of our scientific association by Mr. 
A. C. Davis, and which was exhumed from a mound on Sable Uiver, 

Fig. 3. 




Perforated skull from niouiul at Sable River, Michigan, (Lake Iluion,) one-fourth size. 

Lake Huron, ]\Iicbigan, also has this mark. From ten to fifteen skulls 
were taken from this same mound, all being similarly i)erforated, and 
there being, as I am intbrmed, no other remains interred with them. 

JJuring last summer (1874) in some further excavations made in the 
Great Mound at the Eouge liiver, ^Michigan, among other relics exhumed' 
were eight crania, two of which had this aperture. Of the remaining 
bones i)ertaining to the two skulls in question, I specially noticed that 
many were wanting, and that those present were heai)ed oi was.sc and 
not in the usual manner of burial, seeming to imply that they were 



238 ETHNOLOGY. 

interred subsequently to being denuded of the flesb and tbe other soft 
parts of the body. 

Besides the foregoing instances of this curious custom wliich have 
been brought immediately to my knowledge, I have since been informed 
of a skull having been found at Saginaw, Mich., which presented the 
peculiarity ; but in this case there were three perforations, arranged 
triangularly — cocoa-nut fashion. 

Fig. 4. 







\^' 



Perforation, Sable River skull, full size. F, frontal. 

All inquiry which I had made of learned societies or individuals in 
regard to this observance elicited an utter disclaiming of all knowledge 
on the subject. The two largest collections in ethnology in this country-, 
the Smithsonian Institution and the Peabody Museum, contain no evi- 
dence of it. Prof. Joseph Ilenry, in replying to my queries, stated that 
the only information he had procured in relation to perforated skulls 
was the following note from Professor Mason, of Columbian College, 
Washington : ♦' It is an interesting coincidence that the head-hunting 
Dyaks of Borneo have a house in the center of their village, in an upper 
story of which they keep the beads which they capture suspended by a 



CIIAEACTEIUSTICS PERTAINING TO ANCIENT MAN. Zo'J 

string which passes through u perforatiou in the top of the skull.'' [This 
custom of the Dyaks is, I believe, no longer adhered to, having been 
abandoned sliortlj' after their becoming semi-civilized.] 

The kite Professor Wymau, in a letter written me the day before his 
death, emphatically states that the fact of this perforatiou was new to 
him, adding: "There is nothing of the kind in any of our skulls in the 
museum, nor have I seen it mentioned as existing elsewhere." 

A friend has learned for me that au educated Indian makes the state- 
ment, in reply to our inquiry, that he remembers hearing his father say 
that formerly the heads of distinguished men and chiefs were honored 
by this mark after death. I mention this for what it may be worth. 

The skull from the Sable Kiver mouiul (Fig. 3) is of a dark color, and 
its latitudinal or cephalic index, 0,770, would place it within the ortho- 
cephalic or medium range, the altitudinal index being inferior, or exactly 
0.745. The foramen magnum approaches a central position, its index 
being 0.445. Fig. 4 shows the perforation of the skull, full size. 

The two perfect specimens from the Eouge Eiver are decidedly brachy- 
cephalic crania, the cephalic indices being respectively 0,822 and 0.853, 
the altitudinal indices being inferior, or respectively 0.733 and 0.828, while 
the indices of the foramen magnum are, in the one case, 0.465, and, in the 
other, 0.397. 

In Fig, 5 is given the first mentioned of these crania ; Fig. 6 ex- 

Fir,. 5. 




Artificially-perforated skull from Great Moniid, Rouge River, ?.Iicliigan, (No. 1,) one- 

fourtli si/0. 

hibiting its perforation of the actual size, from which it will be seen that 
the incision has been made at the exact junction of the sutures, which, 
.singularly enough in this case, occupies a central vertical position, as do 
the perforations in every instance vvhich has come to my knowledge. 

That the position of the junction did not influence, much less control, 
the location of the perforation, is evident, however; for in the other llouge 
Eiver skull, (Fig. 7,) the incision is, as usual, exactly centered, though 
the junction of the sutures occurs but 0.2 of an inch in advance of the 



240 



ETIIXOLOGY. 



selected iiosition. This coustantly-reeuiriiig central location of the hole 
would apparently imply that the suspension of the skull was, at least, 



Fig. 6. 



5- 






■sr^- 



■■\y^ 



/^■-' 






Perforation, lionge River skull, (No. 1,) full wize. F, frontal. 

one of the objects sought by this observance, the even balance of the 
head when thus treated being, of course, most desirable. This latter 
skull presents the smallest of the perforations which I have as yet seen ; 
this as exhibited in Fig. 8 is but little more than one-third of an inch in 
diameter. 




Artificially-perforated skull from Great Mound, Rouge River, Michigan, (No. G,) one- 
fourth size. 

The numbers (No. 1, No. G) appended to these figures refer to the 
numerical order of these skulls in the "Table giving the dimensions of 
crania from the Great Mound at the Rouge Kiver," and which forms a 
part of the paper to which I have already referred. They are used in 
this connection for the convenience of those who shall have access to 
the Report of the American Association for 1875. 



CHARACTERISTICS PERTAINING TO ANCIENT MAN. 



241 



And here twish to remark that but two rejoinders were elicited by 
my notice ou '' The Artiticial Perforation of the Cranium"' in the Ameri- 
can Naturalist. One of these was iroui Dr. Ford, who subsequently 
kindly forwarded for inspection a perforated skull, (Fly. 9,) the only one 



Fig. 8. 






-./-J' 






Pcrfovatiou, Rongo Rivur fskiill. (No. 0,) full size. F, frontal. 

in the medical museum at Ann Arbor. The specimen was taken from a 
mound at Devil Elver, Michigan, by Rev.Dr.Pilcher. This peculiar keeled 
cranium, of which only the upper portions of the frontal and parietals 
remain, presents, I find, the extraordinarily low cephalic index of 0.557. 
In obtaining this, I have allowed only 0.25 of an inch for the additional 

Fig. 0. 




Perforated skull from mouiul at Devil River, Michigan, (Lake Ilurou,) one-fourth size. 

length which the occipital (that bone being totally wanting) would have 
given. This jirobably gives the quantity rather under than over the 
true length. The breadth is barely 4.07 inches. The perforation, shown 
at full size in Fig. 10, is elliptical in form, (the diameters O'.S x 0'.7 ;) 
the major diameter running right and left, or latitudinally, as if to 
heighten the narrow aspect of the skull. 
S. Mis. 115 IG 



242 



ETHNOLOGY. 



So far, all that 1 bad learned directly or indirectly iu regard to this 
siagular custom confined it witbiu the limits of the State of Michigan; 
But lately I have received the second rejoinder, called forth by my note 
in the I^^aturalist. This is a letter from the Eev. Stephen Bowers, dated 
Santa Barbara, Cal , September G, 1875. The writer proceeds to say 



Fig. 10. 




''1-i> 



Perforatiou, Devil Ki\cr skull, fall size. F, froutal. 

that he had rea4 luy article on perforated skulls with interest ; that 
during the past four months he had exhumed from 500 to 1,000 skele- 
tons, and found but one such as I describe. It was that of an old man, 
and the hole, about one-third of an inch in diameter, was iu the top of 
the skull. It was the only skeleton found in that place. In fact, from 
the description, it was clearly an additional example of the custom, and 
one of much importance, as so widely extending the area iu which the 
practice was observed, if we may consider a single instance sufficient 
l^roof of this. The skull was, however, unfortunately broken by acci- 
dent, and destroyed. 

Since sending my notice to the Naturalist in April last, (printed 
August, 1875,) my attention has been called to a note in Harper's 
Magazine for May, 1875, and issued since my remarks were written, 
which states that "a communication made by Dr. Prunieres (de Marve- 
jols) before the meeting of the French Association for the Advancement 
of Science, at Lille, treated of the curious artificial perforations common 
among the Neolithic skulls of the Lozere. These perforations vary in 



CHARACTERISTICS PERTAINING TO ANCIENT MAN. 243 

tlie pieces exhibited from an iacU to an inch and a quarter in dhunotei. 
Xear the perforated skulls were found rings of cranial bone, which seemed 
to be designed as amulets. These were evidentlj- worked with flint tools. 
The men of the ])olished stone age practiced ti-epannfng ; for if some of 
the skulls appear to have been perforated after death, others were 
treated during- life, and the patients had lived for years afterward. 
One skull presented three perforations, made near each other on a line 
fore and aft. There is no distinction of age, the excisions occurring 
upon infants as well as upon adults. The motive of this strange custom 
was either medical or superstitious. They probably attributed disease 
to supernatural agencies ; the evil spirit escaping through the opening 
made hy the sorcerer, who wrapjied the operation in a shroud of mys- 
tery by preserving the detached piece as a precious relic. From the 
appearance of these facts re[)orted by the learned archaeologist of 
Lozere, he said that a new light had been shed upon the intellectual 
state of man in the polished stone age. It explained his religious con- 
ceptions, and confirmed the discovery of the figure of a goddess in 
the caverns of Baye, (Marne.) M. Broca remarked that perforated skulls 
were also found at the last-named station. Among the skulls dug up 
by General Faidherbe were found two in the same condition. Dr. Chil, 
from the Canary Islands, said that perforated skulls had been found in 
the ancient burial-places of his country. Xotice was also called to an 
example from the Grotto of Lorde, upon which M. Hamy and M. Cha- 
l)lain-Duparc gave some interesting details. A similarly perforated or 
trepanned skull was found by Mr. E. G. Squier among some ancient 
Peruvian crania collected by him." 

I have not seen the original report ; but the concluding remark on 
the Peruvian skull removes some doubt as to the kind of i3erforatiou 
described. In the well-known instance discovered by Mr. Squier, the 
character and the meaning of the operation (trepanning, the excision 
having been made during the lifetime of the individual) are so evident, 
and the shape (rectangular) antl the position (on the left side of the 
frontal bone) so different from that of the perforations which I have 
described in the crania from Michigan, that I never for a moment associ- 
ated them, and therefore made no reference to the Peruvian skull. The 
same view, we may presume, was taken by the learned persons to whom 
I referred my discoveries, who could scarcely be supposed ignorant of 
the case in question. 

1 find no positive statement as to the position of the perforations men- 
tioned at the meeting of the French association, but judge from certain 
remarks that (again unlike our instances from Michigan) there was no 
constant position observed. In certain cases of trepanning, the position, 
of course, must have varied with the location of the injury to be operated 
on. 

In short, the perforation which I find in Michigan crania is exceptional, 
rarely present ; it is simply a circular hole about half an inch, more or 



244 



ETHNOLOGY. 



less, (about ^' to 3',) in diameter, apparently rudely bored, invariably in 
the top of tbe head of adults, and made after death ; while those cases 
described in France, though only so recently brought to notice, are quite 
numerous, and appear to be what may be more correctly termed trepan- 
ning ; that is, the part of the skull operated on was removed entire, and 
all ages are represented. 

It has suggested itself to me that the superstition of the modern 
North American Indian in regard to there being two souls, one of which 
visits the body after death, may be of illuminative tendency in this di- 
rection. We know that the roof-like coverings of their graves, made of 
wood or bark, always have a perforation at one extremity for the sup- 
posed entrance and egress of the soul. But the question arises, Why, 
then, is not the perforation of the skull constant, or at least more fre- 
quent, in our mounds"? 

The accompanying table gives the dimensions of the perforated skulls 
which have come before me, and to which special reference has been 
made in this paper: 

Table (jiving dimensions, tjc, of perforated crania from mounds in Micliifjan. 



Locality. 






' 




"3 
"S 

p 

o 


o 
-3 

a 


s 

13 


c 
a 

ii 




"3 
% 

a 


.a 

□ 


.a 


M 
'S 




r2 

h3 


-3 
< 


^1 

rs 
C 
M 


Ronge River, Michigan, (M^o. 1) . .. 


18. G5 


7.30 


COO 


5.35 


4.02 


0. 822 


0.733 


' 0.465 


Rouge River, Michigan, (No. 6) 


U. 23 


6.80 


5.80 


5. C3 


4.63 


0.853 


0. 828 


0.397 




18.06 


7.18 


5.53 




4.31 


770 


0.745 


0. 445 






7.30 


4.07 




4.52 


0.557 























.a 






"s 














o 


ce 












- 


ja 


.a 


^ 


a 
o 


o 
'C 


.5* 


a 

.2 


a 


Locality. 




S 


C3 


.n 


<4-l 




<w 


o 






1 


3 


"a 


'ti 




.a 

"Si 




a 

a 

o 


.2 

a 

3 






n 






n 


a 


a 








i^ 






c 


4) 


o 


<p 








P=* 


fl^ 


O 


^ 


(J 


1-1 


Hi 


N 


u 


Rouge River, Michigan, (Xo. 1 ) 


iai5 


12.00 


11.65 


14.00 


5. 50 


4.40 


4.10 




19.00 


Rouge River, Michigan, (No. G) 


11.10 


13. 15 


11.00 


14.85 


.5.40 


4.60 


4.85 


5.60 


24. 40 




11.50 


13.10 


10. 60 


14.75 


5.25 
5.10 


4.30 
5.00 


5.20 




20.30 























* Only comparative. Time did not permit to obtain the exact (absolute) capacity. 

In this connection, and in concluding, I have considered worthy of 
being mentioned the fragment of carved bone represented in Fig. 11, 
a side-view of which is seen in Fig. 12. This was lately taken by me 
from the Great Mound at the Eouge River, and it is the only relic of the 
kind which I have seen exhumed from the mounds in Michigan. Though 
but a small fragment remains, it is sufficient to prove the workmanship 
to have been of no mean order and of remarkably neat finish, surpris- 



CHARACTERISTICS PERTAINING TO ANCIENT MAN. 



245 



ingly so wbeu we consider the rude implements which, in all ])robabil- 
ity, alone were available for its manufacture. The illustration scarcely 



Fig. II. 




Carved bone (fraguieut) from Great Mouud, Rouge River, Micbi<>au, full size. 



Fiij. 12. 



Fi-. V.i. 



iiAi&iS\& 



does it justice. The front or carved surface is convex, as shown in Fig. 
13, while the back is fiat and perfectly plain and smooth. In its perfect 
state, it was probably intended to be worn as an ornament, the remains 
of a finely-drilled hole at one side appearing to have been one of the 
means for its attachment to the person. 



THE STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 



By Dk. C. C. Abbott, Trentox, N. J. 



ClIAPTKR I. 
LOCALITIES. 



The aboriginal inhabitants of New Jersey appear to have bad an eye 
for the picturesque in landscape-scenery, although facility in procuring 
food and safety from attack were the objects mainly in view in settling 
at any point ; still, we find that wherever tbe scenery is commanding, 
as in the northern mountainous portion of the country at such grand 
localities as the Delaware Water Gap, we discover there remains in 
abundance, but as we go inland they are less numerous, as the hills 
decrease and the rivers dwindle into brooks. Yet so abundant were the 
Indian villages and numerous these people that almost every brook that 
harbors a fish has now lying among the pebbles on its bed, or in the turf 
upon its banks, flinty arrow-points or delicate fish-spears. 

The abundance of the weapons and domestic implements of the 
aborigines suggests that each village had at least one implement-maker; 
that the various stone articles were the product of the skill of some 
one of every community, who was exclusively devoted to the business of 
making them. Although, when on hunting-expeditions or in battle, the 
single specimens lost would have the effect to mingle all the " styles " 
throughout the State ; yet if we compare a suite of arrow-heads, spears, 
lances, or even axes, from a single locality, with a similar series from a 
distant section of the State, there will be found with each a peculiarity 
of its own, an individuality, so to speak, that characterizes the two col- 
lections. The similarity of stone implements the world over is one that 
extends to those forms that are simplest, and is not an indication that 
because the same results have been wrought out by widely-separated 
tribes there was necessarily a kinship. 

Studying the localities in the State where relics are most numerous, 
we have been surprised with the frequent exhibition of the implement- 
makers peculiar tastes, and are convinced tliat widely-differing shapes 
of wrought stones in some cases have had an identical purpose ; and 
certainly it would be diflficult to suggest names for each type, they being 
more numerous than the occupations of a primitive people. 

While weapons in the majority of localities greatly predominate over 
the domestic or agricultural implements, still, in some sections of the 
State, the opposite is the case, at least approximately, as evinced by the 
number of the latter class of relics equaling the former in an average 
day's search. 

. 24G 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 247 

When we cousider, in anotlier chapter, the relics designated as '' rude 
implements/' we shall find that these are not especially characteristic 
of any one locality, bnt seem scattered uniformly over the State, while 
they are deeper in the soil than the majority of so-called ^' surface "- 
specimens. 

Starting- at Trenton, N. J., the head of tide-water, and following the 
rivers course in a southerly direction, we find the rocky, mountainous 
shores of the upper river succeeded by a gravelly, bluffy bank on the 
New Jersey side, which varies in height from twenty to one hundred feet, 
and linall}' disappears near the town of Burlington, being replaced there 
and thence by almost continuous level, sandy shores, terminating at Cape 
May, the southern extremity of the State. Along the first five miles of 
the brow of this bluffy bank, and extending inland some half mile, is the 
tract from which has been gathered the great bulk of our collection 
and the most interesting specimens. This bluff" does not always imme- 
diately face the river, but, receding half a mile or more between Tren- 
ton and Bordentown, forms, between these two points, a semicircular 
tract of meadow, of varying elevation above the river's level, and on the 
higher portions, or knolls, are found numerous relics ; but the greater 
number are from the hill-top fields, although it may be that the rare oc- 
currence of plowing in the meadows, as compared with the uplands, may 
in some measure account for the difference. 

A glance at this limited tract of country, even in the highly artificial 
condition that it now presents, will plainly show why it was a favorite 
spot with the red men. Placing their wigwams on the brow of the hill, 
they had at their command an unbroken stretch of forest of white-oak, 
pine, and chestnut, harboring the elk, deer, and bears, while in the deep 
creeks traversing the meadows below them, and the broad river beyond, 
were fishing-facilities that in that ancient day were not to be excelled 
by any within a thousand miles. 

Chaptek II. 

EITDE IMPLEMENTS. 

So attractive to the amateur, or the more scientific student, are the 
finished specimens of wrought jasper and polished porphyry, that the 
"rude implements," sparingly scattered among them, and buried still 
more deeply in the soil, are either overlooked, or the passing glance 
given them suggests that they are unfinished specimens, or the crude 
results of a beginner in the art of flint-chipping. This we believe to be 
an error. These "rude implements" are usually formed of the mineral 
that characterizes the locality where they are found ; those met 
with at Trenton, X. J., are all of the sandstone that forms the bed of 
the river at the rapids, and crops out here and there. This rock varies 
somewhat in texture, and the implements also are found to be made 
both of the denser and the softer strata of the stone, as though frag- 



^48 ETHNOLOGY. 

inents were broken off and chipped into shape from auy convenient 
point. 

This class of antiquities is not abundant, considering the whole num- 
ber of specimens we have gathered, about ten thousand, and embrac- 
ing nearly every class of relics. The proportion is less than 2 per cent, 
of the whole number. Careful examination of a series shows that they 
<;anuot be merely roughly-outlined pieces intended for future more 
finished work, inasmuch as the present general character and dimensions 
of the great bulk of them renders additional chipping impracticable. 
The larger " rude implements " would, if further chipped away, form axes 
and lance-heads of much smaller dimensions than the great majority of 
those that we now find. 

Figure 1 represents an average specimen of the flat-bottomed, peak- 
backed stones, known in some localities as "turtle-backs," a name that 
admirably describes their general appearance. Made of the ordinary 
Delaware Kiver sandstone, this specimen measures four inches in length 
and two and one-half inches in width. The bottom is nearly a perfect 
plane, and shows, by the slight indentations and scratch-like markings, 
that it has been chipped into its present shape, and not accidentally 
broken. Its greatest thickness is one and one-eighth inches ; the " peak," 
or highest point of the back, being in the middle of the specimen, meas- 
ured lengthwise, but rather nearer one side than the other, or off the 
center ; but the broader side of the back does not appear better adapted 
for cutting than the narrower or more abruptly descending side. 

Although this stone, from long exposure, has become i:)orous upon 
the surface, the edges still remain sharp, regular, and exhibit an amount 
of skill in "flint-chipping" about equal to that of the ordinary slate 
lance-heads, spear and arrow points. Close examination shows that the 
back has been worked into its present shape by a series of powerful 
blows, or by pressure, leaving large surfaces usually, several of the planes 
being those of a single detachment of a fragment of the rock, in some 
instances extending from the peak to the edge of the implement. 

Had these fractures occurred in an ordinary water- worn i^ebble, 
throughout its rough-and-tumble existence, they would assuredly have 
happened at various periods, and, besides leaving different degrees of 
weathering on the fractured surfaces, would also exhibit traces of the 
causes that produced the breakage, as in scratches where a flinty rock 
had graved and cut the underlying pebble, in ground-off angles where 
some huge mass had been rolled upon and crushed off the weaker i)roject- 
ing portions left by a previous altering agency. It is needless to state no 
traces of occurrences like these are discoverable, but, on the contrary, 
every portion of the surface plainly indicates tliat, by a "tool" in the 
hand of a workman, -was the " turtle-back" shaped. 

It is not easy to conjecture the special use of such a stone implement. 
There is nothing about it to show that it was intended to be attached 
to a handle. It seeins impossible, in fact, to use it otherwise than by 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 249 

holding it in the hand, and yet, if for cutting-uses only, why the pecu- 
liar and cai'efully-wrought i)eak ''. There is nothing to show it was 
ever used in connection with another implement, for such joint uses 
would be indicated by battered surfaces at difterent points ; yet we have 
found no "turtle-back-' that showed other contact than that of the 
" hammer stone" that pecked the level side of the implement. 

Figure 2 is a smaller specimeu of " turtle-back," varying principally 
from the preceding by the back being rudely ridged rather than pointed. 
It is two and seven-eighths inches in length by one and seven-eighths 
inches in width. The greatest thickness is nearly three-fourths of an 
inch. The bottom, or under surface, is even more uniform than that of 
the preceeding specimeu, and indicates that the more prominent points 
of the under surface were rubbed away, although not sufliciently to give 
a perfectly smooth or polished surface. Viewed from above, it bears 
considerable resemblance to an implement for skin-dressing, to which 
use it was probably applied. 

Figure 3 is a small ax or hatchet, that makes a step, as it were, in 
advance of the •' turtle-backs." Two and one-quarter inches in length 
and two and one-eighth iuches wide, it is brought to a gOod edge of two 
inches in length, from a base one inch and one-eighth long by one-half 
inch in width. As will be seen in the illustration, this specimen still 
retains one characteristic of "turtle-backs," in that it is flat upon one 
side and is chipped upon its upper and lower edges or side, as well as 
sloped to the front or cutting-edge proper. The cutting-edge has been 
dulled by exposure, but is still sufficiently keen to be used as a skiuniug- 
knife, an incision having previously been made. Although calling it an 
ax or hatchet, we believe its use was that above mentioned. 

If the climate of our country during the stone age was even as tem- 
l)erate as it is now, warm clothing was an imperative requirement; and 
it is safe to infer that a prominent use of all these rude implements was 
in rendering fit for clothing the skins of the large mammals once numer- 
ous in this region. 

Figure 4 is an interesting specimen, i)reviously designated as a hatchet, 
but which is now classed and considered as a "rude implement." Three 
and one-quarter iuches in length by two and one-half inches in breadth, 
it presents nothing in common with the types — if we may call them so — 
of these ruder forms of implements. From the base, which is the un- 
chipped natural surface of the stone that has been selected, this imple- 
ment is chipped equally on both sides, and brought to an edge along 
each margin, and at the same time tapered to an obtuse point, suffic- 
iently marked, however, to indi(;ate that it was intended to pierce as 
well as cut. The broad base, which is sufficiently wide to allow the 
specimen to stand upon it without support, upon a level surface, pre- 
cludes the idea that there ever has been a long shaft attached, and so 
converting the specimeu into a spear-head. 

Held in the hand, it would seem to be an awkward instrument for 



250 ETHNOLOGY. 

most purposes, but best adapted pi^obably for incising the skin of an 
animal with tbe point, and then, by tbe long cutting-margins, detaching 
the skin from the carcass. The point has probably been much more 
acute than now, and, when in its original condition, it certainly could 
have been so used ; or, held in the hand by the base, it would, by a well- 
directed blow, split the long, hollow bones of a bison for obtaining the 
marrow, being, for such a purpose, an admirable combination of wedge, 
hammer, and hatchet; and such split bison-bones have been found in 
New Jersey. 

Figure 5 represents a specimen most like a weapon of any of the rude 
implements we have as yet been able to find. Its shape at once suggests 
its use, and, considering the rough workmanship that has been expended 
upon it, it seems admirably adapted to the supposed use to which it was 
put. It foreshadows the tomahawk of more modern times. There appear 
to have been no fractures since the implement was made. The whole 
surface presents the same degree of weather-worn appearance, and it is 
doubtful if even the rude edges were more regular in design or sharper 
than at present. Very nearly eight inches in length, the specimen may, 
for purposes of description, be divided into two sections — the front or 
blade of the weapon, and the hammer-head or back. The blade or front 
portion is four inches in length, forming nearly a continuous line with 
the top of the back ; the elevation of the outline or margin being less 
than half an inch at the angle of the back and edge. Below, the line 
of the back and that of the blade form an obtuse angle ; the blade being 
beneath an inch and three-eighths wider than the narrower portion or 
hammer-head. The entire margin of this specimen has been chipped 
into its present shape and condition, giving it a rndelj-rounded appear- 
ance at the top, edge, bottom, and extremity of the back. This chip- 
ping has not been done by an ordinary hammer stone, i)ecking off the 
small fragments and producing the peculiar dotted appearance common 
to the ordinary grooved cobble-stone axes ; but the stone has been 
Jinked off in larger pieces, although the appearance varies from the 
shelly fracture of jasper, having nothing in common with those minerals 
that have this peculiar fracture, well named conchoidal. As a large 
portion of the side of this specimen is smooth, it is probable that the 
mass, as originally detached from the rock, bore some resemblance to 
the weapon or implement as it now appears. The interest, as it seems 
to us, that attaches itself to this rude hatchet, is that it is the most 
primitive specimen we have met with that clearly indicates that a 
handle has been fastened to it. A split or forked sapling could have 
been as readily attached to an ax of this shape as to any of the grooved 
forms. The shallow notch beneath, at the junction of the back and 
blade, was evidently so chipped to make the attached handle more 
secure. Armed with such a weapon, a powerful man could do great exe- 
cution in close combat. 

It must be borne in mind that the specimens here figured are not iso- 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 251 

lated instances of rude stoue implements bearing- peculiar markings; 
altliougli in a large series there will of course be some even possibly 
more rude, and again others that seem a i)artial transition from the 
"turtle-backs" to the ax, or the latter to the spear-headshaiied speci- 
mens. Other than the sj)e('imen last figured, (figure 5.) we have now 
lying on our table two specimens with about the same amount of work 
upon them, but varying somewhat in details. The larger of these is of 
the same length as figure 5 ; but the blade narrows gradually toward 
the back, which is about two-thirds of the width of the front or cutting 
edge. There is no defined spot to show where or how a handle has 
been fastened, but such must have been attached in some manner to 
render the stoue at all available as a war- weapon or an implement of the 
chase. The other, smaller specimen of a rude ax is five and one-half 
inches in length, with a front or cutting edge of three and one-half 
inches in extent ; and from this edge the specimen tapers to an acute 
point, giving it the form of an acute, nearly equilateral, triangle, with a 
slightly-curved base. It shows clearly that it has had a handle attached, 
as in case of figure 5, and, with the pointed back and curved edge in front, 
well represents the tomahawk of the Indians in use after the introduc- 
tion of iron, and still in use among the wilder tribes of the West. 

Figure 6 represents a small ax, showing that occasionally considerable 
labor was expended in even this class of rude implements. The general 
outline is good, much resembling that of the preceding figure. Unlike 
that specimen, however, it clearly retains the ma7'ks of the hammer- 
stone, showing that it was slowly pecked into shape, and not formed by 
hard blows and large fragments broken off. One side is flatter than 
the other, indicating that it approaches the specimens we have figured 
as the types or starting-points of this series of stone relics. The cut- 
ting-edge is still well preserved, but shows no indication of having been 
polished or sharpened otherwise than by pecking fresh fragments off 
as the old edge grew dull by use. This specimen measures three and 
three-fourths inches in length, by two and one-half inches in width at 
the front or edge, and tapers then to a back about one inch iu width, 
which has also been chipped to a moderately sharp edge. 

Figure 7 represents a common form of" rude imi)lement,"that returns 
to the "turtle-back" variety in the characteristic of a perfectly liat 
bottom or under surface, which in this case appears to have been the 
face of a smooth fracture effected by a single blow upon the rock from 
which the specimen was detached. The object of the specimen is wholly 
different from the " axes" we have been describing; this being a spear- 
head apparently, as the well-defined point is unquestionably the impor- 
tant feature of the weapon or implement of the chase. It is not easy to 
comprehend why spear-heads should have been thus fashioned, that is, 
flat upon one side, and so ridged upon the other as to make the greatest 
thickness equal to half the length, as in this and many other instances. 
We will find, however, that this character re-appears in other specimens 



252 ETHNOLOGY. 

of a later period, of the highest degree of polish and workmanship. The 
specimen in question measures three inches in total length by two and 
one-fourth inches in greatest breadth, and is a fair representative of the 
"flat" spears found in localities where these rude implements are met 
with, as in the gravelly bank of the Delaware south of Trenton, N. J., 
and occasionally on the surface of the ground in the same neighbor- 
hood. 

Associated with this flat-sided variety, but in far smaller numbers, is 
a larger implement, that may be considered as a rude spear-head. Cer- 
tainly, the shape of the specimeu, (figure 8,) as in the preceding case, 
shows the point to have been the principal object in view. This speci- 
men was found upon the surface, but is identical with those associated 
with the gravel of the river-bank. Indeed, specimens of every typo of 
" rude implements " are found upon the surface, and are plowed up 
every spring and autumn ; but this in no way militates against the 
opinion that these ruder forms are far older than the well-chipped jas- 
per and beautifully-polished porphyry stone-work. 

The hatchet and the spear represent the two types from which the 
more modern stone weapons have proceeded, and if we look upon these 
as having been suggested by the use of the " turtle-backs" previously 
for the uses to which the hatchet and spear were afterward put, so far 
as that was practicable, then we have an unbroken line of development 
in the manufacture of tools. 

Eude implements of a " domestic " type are exceedingly rare. "We 
have met with but two such specimens, (figures 9 and 10.) Figure 9 
represents a nondescript forui, innumerable uses for which can be im- 
agined, but not easily demonstrated. Sir John Lubbock, in his " Pre- 
historic Times," (2d ed., p. oiO, figures 199-200,) figures a very similar 
specimen from Madras. The similarity in size and shape suggests the 
probability that both these specimens were put to the same use ; and, 
curiously enough, the India specimen, like figure 9, was found at a 
considerable depth below the surface of the ground. Everything con- 
nected with the history of this specimen shows that it should be classed 
with the "turtle-backs" and the other forms that we have figured. 
It is just six inches in length and two and three-fourths inches iu 
greatest breadth. Nearly four inches of its length is of this width, 
where it tapers to a stem-like handle a little over an inch in width. 
The whole surface still retains traces of the blows of the hammer, and 
the edges, those of the handle included, are all rudely chipped. 

With one other illustration of "rude implements" we shall close our 
consideration of this portion of the subject. Figure 10 represents a form 
of this class of relics wholly unique. That it is a product of human 
workmanship no one can doubt; but, as in many of the preceding cases, 
it is difficult to say for what it was especially designed. It was found 
on the surface of a sandy field, where many of the ordinary shapes of 
Indian relics occur. If intended for an ax with a handle, " all iu one," 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 253 

then the pnri)ose is well carried out ; but why so carefully rounded a 
blade ? jS^o detailed description other than some of the principal meas- 
urements are necessary. The illustration gives an accurate idea of the 
weapon itself. The handle aud " back" straight portion of the blade 
measure together exactly five and one-half inches. The diameter of 
the circular blade is about four and one-half inches. The straight back 
of the implement is the only portion of the natural surface of the stone 
from which it was made. An examination shows that some large bowl- 
der has been broken into lamina?, and one of these, originally about one 
inch in thickness, has been afterward chipped until the handled disk 
has been produced as we now find it. The edge apparently has never 
been sharper, about one-fourth of an inch in width, and the whole gen- 
eral appearance tends to show that it is an agricultural implement. 
While this impression militates against the idea of a great antiquity 
for these rude specimens, an antiquity that antedates agriculture eveu 
in its most primitive condition, yet there seems no other me«*:hod of 
utilizing this unique specimen. 

Chapter III. 

GROOVED STONE AXES. 

These, although having a general similarity, are not exactly alike, 
and we have had in oar possession at various times several hundred. 
The universal exception that coexists with ever}" rule here obtains in the 
pattern of ax that is grooved upon each side, near the head and across 
one margin, but whether the top or bottom is uncertain. Such speci- 
mens are alike sometimes, even with regard to size. So far as the con- 
tinuation of the groove across one margin is concerned, we find that a 
forked sapling can be best attached to such axes by placing the flat 
margin in the fork of the handle and drawing the ends together over the 
groove, thus making it the top or upper margin of the implement. Wo 
shall, therefore, in describing this pattern of ax, which is the most nearly 
uniform of all the styles, consider the groove as being across the upper 
margin. Careful examination also of the edges of such specimens as we 
have had seems to us to show also that this manner of securing the 
handle was that i^ursued by the people who made and used these axes. 

Figure 11 is a very good example of the most common type of grooved 
stone axes; that is, such as we have described in the preceding para- 
graph. This ax measures elev(in and one-half inches in total length, 
and is but four inches wide at the broadest portion, the ridge imme- 
diately in front of the groove. The groove itself is but seven-eighths 
of an inch in width, and the head, or that portion posterior to the groove, 
varies from one and one-half inches to one inch in length. The cuttiug-edgo 
is but two and one-fourth inches in extent, and is still moderately sharp 
and well preserved. Although the specimen still shows the marks of the 
hammer, yet it might almost be placed under the head of polished axes, as 



254 ETHNOLOGY. 

the weapon has been so carefully smoothed down that the slight iue- 
qualities and shallow indentations can scarcely be felt by the hand. Its 
weight is seven and one-half ponnds. With the handle placed where the 
groove is, it must have produced a great strain upon the wrist. The 
small extent of the edge suggests that it was intended to inflict one effect- 
ive hloio, and not that its main use was chipping or girdling of trees. 

This specimen was found on a small gravelly island in the Delaware 
River, and was presented to the author by his friend Mr. W. Dean, of 
Lambertville, N. J. 

Figure 12 represents the average style of ax of this particular pat- 
tern, which we believe is found throughout the United States. They 
vary from two to five and seven inches in length, and occasionally, as 
we have seen, reach eleven and one-half inches. The smallest specimen 
we had met with for a long time was scant three inches; but, as the ex- 
treme edge was wholly broken away, it probably measured, when per- 
fect, fully three inches. (See figure 13.) We have since collected a 
still smaller and more perfect specimen, (figure 14,) which measures only 
two and one-half inches in length; the perfect back being in the natural 
condition of the pebble from which the little ax was made. 

This variety of ax is most usually found to be of sandstone, and the 
ordinary cobble-stones, or water-worn pebbles of the adjacent river-beds. 
At and above Trenton, K J., the bed of the Delaware River is wholly 
composed of loose stones of various sizes, with here and there an out- 
cropping of stationary rock. These loose pebbles or cobble-stones are 
found on examination to frequently bear considerable general resem- 
blance to the finished axes, and to need little work upon them other 
than making the groove and rubbing one end down until a cutting-edge 
is produced. So abundant, as it seems to us, are the well-adapted 
stones, in shape and size, that we wonder why so frequently we meet 
with stone-axes that have been carefully pecked over the whole 
surface to bring them down to the proper shape. This may be ex- 
plained, perhaps, by the suggestion that many axes were made where 
stones at all suitable were difflcult to obtain, and that the frequent wars 
or wanderings of a community and bartering may have resulted in the 
commingling of the axes of a multitude of localities, many of them 
miles distant from each other. We know, too, that tribes came from 
long distances to make autumnal visits to our sea-coast, and, of course, 
on such journeys nvould always be provided with, and frequently lose, 
as they passed through the State, many specimens of every variety of 
both weapons and domestic implements. 

Occasionally, this pattern is produced in porphyry, and in that case 
is invariably polished. We have knowledge of some specimens of this 
pattern, and of this material, of immense size and weight, but could 
not, unfortunately, learn the exact numbers of inches and pounds ; but 
we do not suppose they really measured more than figure 11, although 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 255 

the weight was probably iiioro. inasmuch as figure 11. if of porphyry, 
would certainly be considerably heavier. 

When made of porphyrj", these axes were valued much more than 
those of ordinary sandstone, inasmuch as they were continually ground 
<lown to new edge, as the old one wore away or was accidentally broken 
off; and the original owners were so choice of them that they continued 
the resharpening until there was scarcely any blade left, and that little 
unavailable in conseciuence of the thickness of the ax across the back 
and at the groove. 

Figure 15 is an admirable example of an ax made of a porphyry 
pebble of this pattern, worn down by continual resharpening. The 
specimen now measures four inches in length by three and three-eighths 
in width, and is two and one-half inches across the head or back. It has 
a well-defined groove running along its under margin, a feature common 
to this pattern of stone axes. 

Occasionally, an ordinary sandstone or cobble-stone axe of this pat- 
tern is to be found very carefully smoothed over its whole surface. We 
can scarcely call it a polish, and yet it is very near it. In such speci- 
mens especially, the uniformity in the width and depth of the groove 
is truly remarkable. This groove varies much in depth, and a noticeable 
feature is that the depth of the groove is in no wise in accordance with, 
the size and weight of the ax, as would be the natural inference. 
Thus, in figure 11, the groove is very shallow and narrow, being about 
one-quarter of an inch only in depth, while in some of the smaller speci- 
mens it is fully one-half an inch deep, and we have met with instances 
fully five-eighths of an inch in depth. The depth of groove may per- 
haps be a good index to the degree of patience in the various indi- 
viduals of a community. We have before us a very fine sample of ax 
from Indiana, the remarkable features of which are the depth and width 
of the groove as compared with the general measurements of the imple- 
ment itself. The ax measures six inches in length by four and one- 
half in width, and the groove measures one and three-quarters in width 
by seven-sixteenths of an inch in depth. Such a groove compared with 
the example in figure 11 seems the more strange when we remember 
that the latter, in size and weight, is about double that of the deeply- 
grooved Indiana specimen. 

Figure IG represents as fine a specimen of a polished ax as we 
have ever seen. This ax was found in Elsinborough Township, Salem 
County, New Jersey, by Dr. John W. Ward, of Trenton, by whom it 
was kindly presented to the wiiter. It is now preserved in the cabinet 
of the Peabody Academy of Science, at Salem, Mass. The illustration 
gives a better idea of the specimen itself than an}' description can. 
Suffice it to say that the whole surface has been beautifully polished, 
the edge rendered as sharp as practicable, and it is still perfect, 
equidistant from each side, and describing a very nearly accurate circle. 
It will be noticed that this specimen has two grooves, one of them shal- 
lower and much less well defined than the posterior and deeper one. 



256 ETHNOLOGY. 

The object of this double grooviug does uot appear. It is a feature we 
have not met with in any other specimen. The preservation of the edge 
and the general freshness of the whole surface makes it highly probable 
that it is among the very latest of the stone axes made in New Jersey, 
or, indeed, anywhere within a reasonable distance of this State; there- 
fore it has probably seen little if any service, perhaps being used as an 
ornament or badge of ofSce. 

When we consider the class of relics known as " skiuuing-knives," we 
shall find that some of them are similar in many respects to this specimen, 
and that possibly we have erred in calling figure 16 an ax. It has, 
however, some features so common to the true axes that the likelihood 
in the case is much in favor of classing it as we have done. 

Figure 17 represents a fair average specimen of a cobble-stone ax, 
in which the groove extends entirely around the weapon. One feature 
is particularly noticeable in these axes, viz, that the groove is always 
nearly in the middle of the specimen. We have examined a large series 
of axes, and find that the following characteristic is common to all the 
examples that have come under our notice, viz : that when the groove 
extends entirely around the ax, it is in advance of the grooves that do 
not meet above, or on the upper margin, as in figures 11, 12, 13, 14, and 
15. There was something in the method of using these rude implements 
that is yet to be learned before an explanation can be given of this 
curious feature of the varying position of the groove. Certainly, the 
original shape of the selected pebble had nothing, or very little, to do 
with determining the location. This specimen (figure 17) is about the 
average size of any ordinary collection of these stone axes as gathered 
from any one neighborhood. They range from four to eight inches in 
length, seldom exceeding this limit, as compared with the whole number 
found ; and the number of instances of axes of less length than four 
inches is comparatively few. As a class, the completely-grooved axes 
do not appear to be as well finished as the preceding style; and being 
usually of " crooked " or irregularly-shaped stones, when a number are 
together, there appears to be but little in common except the features 
that pronounce them all " axes" or malls. 

A very fine specimen of a large ax is in the cabinet of Eutgers Col- 
lege Museum, at Kew Brunswick, X. J. It was found within the limits 
of that town, on the banks of the Earitan Eiver, which was probably a 
favorite locality with the aborigines, who perhaps were further attracted 
to the place on account of the native copper that was formerly found 
there, and which they highly prized for a variety of purposes, especially 
ornamental. The ax above referred to is of identical pattern with that 
figured by Squier and Davis in Smithsonian Contributions, vol. 1, page 
21G, figure 108, (Anc. Mou. Miss. Valley,) but is somewhat larger and 
heavier. The former measures nine inches in length by six inches in 
width, and weighs an ounce or two over nine pounds. The western spec- 
imen " is made of very compact greenstone, and measures eight inches 
in length by five inches and a half in its greatest breadth, and weighs 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 257 

eigbt pouiids." S. & D. further state that this " is regarded as a genuine 
relic of the mouud-buiklers. Its form is ahnost identical with that of the 
forest-ax of the present day." 

Figure IS represents the finest specimen of a large stone ax that we 
have ever met with. Very many that we have seen have been as large ; 
a number have been of more finished workmanship, but no one has as 
many features of interest as this. The specimen measures eleven inches 
in length. The conical head is thrae inches long, the groove and ridges 
together two and one-quarter inches, and the blade within a small frac- 
tion of five and three-quarter inches. The conical head does not appear 
to have met with any very hard usage, and was ]!robably intended for 
ornament. It would seem as though the ridges, at each margin of the 
groove, would be of great advantage in securing the handle to the ax, 
inasmuch as it secures greater depth to the groove without cutting too 
deeply into the body of the implement itself; but such plausible rea- 
soning somewhat vanishes when we come to compare weig«hts and find 
that this specimen (figure 18) weighs but six pounds, whereas figure 
11, with one i^ound and a half greater weight, has a groove only one- 
half the depth and width, and as near as i^racticable to one end also, 
while in figure 18 it approaches to the middle. 

A pertinent question may here be asked, By what means were these 
cobble-stones shaped into axes? We have frequently already spoken 
of " hammer-stoues," but we have as yet found nothing that seems 
adapted to such work when it comes to a deep, narrow groove ; for 
while some of the axes have the grooves finely polished, others present 
in the groove the same jiitted appearance that characterizes the gen- 
eral surface of the specimen. 

This ax (figure 18) was found on the shore of the Delaware Eiver, 
close to the water's edge, and was presented to the writer by Dr. J. W. 
Ward, of Trenton, N. J. 

Squier and Davis, in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 
vol. 1, page 217, speaking of stone axes, state that "it is clear, from the 
weight of many of these axes, that they were designed to be wielded with 
both hands. Some weigh not less thiiu fourteen pounds, but most range 
from six to ten. The average weight of the ordinary iron-ax of the 
present day is about six pounds." Between the weight of our heaviest 
ax and their maximum there is a difference of five pounds, which we 
have not yet been able to make up ;* but, whether so or not, it is very 
safe, we think, with the New Jersey axes, to consider figures 11 and 18 
about as heavy as they were ord'marUy made ; and, in treating of this 
subject in the manner that we do, the most that we hope is to convey a 
good general idea of what stone weapons, ornaments, and domestic im- 
plements were in use among the aborigines during their primitive stage 
of culture. 

*Since the above was written wo bavo found an ax weighing one ounce less than 
fourteen pounds. 

S. Mis. 115 17 



258 ETHNOLOGY. 

Figure 19 reprcseuts a specimen of ax of soraewliat similar outline to 
the preceding, liaving the ridges tliat are on the margin of the groove 
very well defined, but the tapering, conical head is by no means as 
artistically finished as in the other instance, (figure 18.) As the illus- 
tration shows, this specimen has been chii^ped, or, more properly, pecked, 
over its whole surface, and is a good instance of the perseverance and 
patience of the primitive fol(|c who accounted such weapons among the 
chiefest of their worldly goods. Axes of this shape and pattern occur 
in every part of the State, associated with the pattern described in 
figures 11-15. So different are they in the one matter of the groove and 
its position, that it seems exceedingly probable that the two patterns 
had different uses, and yet we cannot see in what the one shape is 
superior to the others. On examining the hammer-heads, or " backs," 
of a large number of the pattern of figures 11-15, we find there indi-» 
cations of the hammer-head portions having been struck frequent and 
hard blows with another stone, as though this style of ax was largely 
used in splitting wood ; while, in the present type (figures lG-19) there is 
much less indication of such battering of the head. But we have not 
sufiicient evidence as yet to make any separation of these styles into 
" war" and "domestic" axes, or some such distinctive designations. 

Figure 20 represents an exceedingly crude ax, that, when figured, 
was the very " plainest" specimen we had ever met with. Since then, 
however, we have had one other that is even more primitive, and yet 
unquestionably a " grooved stone ax." The specimen here figured 
(figure 20) has the groove on each side and above and below of a uniform 
depth, and is well defined throughout, as the illustration indicates; but, 
in the still pMuer specimen, the groove consists of a faint roughening, 
that seems of little use, being scarcely uneven enough to prevent the 
fastening from slipping ; but, like figure 20, the groove at the top and 
bottom is practically deepened by a projecting knob of the stone, at which 
points all the strain of the fastening of the handle must have come. In 
the specimen figured, (figure 20,) the sides of the blade of the ax have 
been dressed down with a hammer- stone to a pretty well defined edge ; 
but in the still plainer ax before us we find that upon one side a few 
chii)s only have been struck off, and on the other two great portions 
have been artistically knocked away, and the then roughly-prepared 
blade has been rubbed with a polishing-stone until a small but highly- 
polished edge has been produced. We cannot imagine any more diffi- 
cult task than really cutting wood or splitting bone with such a weapon 
as this, and would restrict its use to bruising the bark of trees ; but the 
trees once dead, they would require something better than these rude 
axes to fell them. Judging from their present appearances, the edges 
only of these axes have been used ; the back, which is very uneven in 
each case, does not show any trace of having ever been struck with a 
hammer ; and we find in many of the axes, especially in the pattern of 
figure 11, that they were so struck, thus converting the ax for a time 



• STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 259 

into a -svedge. Loskiel* says: ''Their Latdiets ^vere wedges, made of 
liard stones, six or eight iuclies long, sharpened at the end and fastened 
to a wooden handle." 

Occasionally we meet with a croolvcd or bent ax, which has, however, 
more method in its irregularities than has figure 20. Such an ax we now 
have, which was originally an ordinary cobble-stone that was decidedly 
bent or bow-shaped. Such shaped stones were frequently chosen, as we 
have seen a number of specimens from widely distant localities. The 
best illustration of such bent axes is one measuring nine inches in length 
by three and one-half inches in width. The head alone is the natural sur- 
face of the stone, except a narrow strip immediately in front of the groove ; 
all the rest has been dressed down, and tapers gradually to the edge, which 
has been moderately sharp but never i)olished. These so-called bent 
axes are attractive in appearance as seen in the cabinet, but do not 
seem to possess any especial advantage over any other form. 

With one more illustration, that of a fantastically-shaped cobble-stone 
ax, we will conclude this portion of our subject. Figure 21 represents a 
small ax with three uncommon features : the near approach of the 
groove to the middle of the specimen ; the almost flat surface of one side 
of the implement; and the intended double edge. We say intended, but 
it may be that the shorter end has had a cutting-edge thereon, although 
there is no trace of it left now ; or the broken condition of this end may 
be the preparatory chipping, to have it ready for grinding to a cutting-edge 
at any time it might bo desirable to do so. This specimen measures six 
inches in length by two and one-half inches in breadth, except at the pro- 
jection immediately in front of the groove on the upper margin, which pro- 
jection is about one-half an inch in length. What might be the object in 
having one side flat, or nearly so, does not appear ; but it will be seen 
that this peculiarity is not confined to this ax, or to a few axes as a 
class by themselves, but occurs in weapons and implements of a far 
different nature. 

It would be easy to go on for an indefinite time, and point out pecul- 
iar features in the multitudes of stone axes that are to be found in 
every museum, and scattered throughout the conntiy, but it is unnec- 
essary to give additional examples. We probably have particularized 
more than was necessary, and certainly have gone over the ground 
sufiQciently to give a general idea of the common characters and average 
a])pearance of this class of relics. 

Whatever may be thought of the scientific value of single specimens 
of these axes, or of other relics found lying upon the surface of the 
ground, that value is enhanced perhaps, or at least interest is attached 
to the specimens, when we occasionally have the good fortune to un- 
earth a so-called "deposit" of these specimens, sometimes numbering 
several hundred. 

In one case, in digging a cellar in Trenton, X. J,, one hundred and 

* Mission among N. A. Indians, (Delawares,) page 54. 



260 ETHNOLOGY. 

twenty were found, " all closely huddled up together," as my informant 
described them. They were about three feet below the surface, and a 
" foot deep " in the gravel underlying the soil. They were surrounded 
by, and entirely covered with, a bright brick-red powder. Again, in dig- 
ging the receiving-vault of the Eiverview Cemetery, near Trenton, N. 
J., "a bushel-basketful of these axes was found, packed closely to- 
gether, six feet deep in the ground." On the face of the bluft' fronting 
the Delaware Eiver, immediately below Trenton, N. J., several such 
instances have come to the notice of the writer. In the first two 
instances, the specimens were all grooved cobble-stone axes. In another 
instance, the " axes (?)," fifty in number, were of the ungrooved pattern, 
all of porphyry, well polished, and appeared to have been carefully 
deposited, and not thrown pell-mell into the hole dug to contain them. 

Dr. Daniel Wilson, in " Prehistoric Man," page 412, gives an illustra- 
tion and comments on an " inscribed ax " that was found in New 
Jersey, and so claims a notice here. We will quote the doctor in full con- 
cerning it. He says: "In 1859, Dr. John C. Evans, of Pemberton, N. 
J., communicated to the American Ethnological Society an account of a 
stone ax inscribed in similar [that is, to the ' Yarmouth Bay Stone,'] 
unknown characters, which had been recently plowed up on a neigh- 
boring farm. The ax, which measures about six inches long by three 
and a half broad, is engraved from a drawing furnished to me by Dr. 
Evans. Dr. E. H. Davis, after carefully examining the original, informs 
me that, though the graven characters have been partially retouched 
in the process of cleaning it, their edges present an appearance of age 
consistent with the idea of their genuineness, and the circumstances 
attending its i>roduction furnish no grounds for doubting its authen- 
ticity. Two of the characters are placed on one side in the groove for the 
handle 5 the others apparently form a continuous line, running round 
both sides of the ax-blade, as extended here, (figure 50.)" 

We probably spoke too hastily in attributing to plow-scratches, such 
a case as this, of an inscribed ax ;* but, nevertheless, we have no fiiilh 
in an ancient foreifjn origin of these figures. If not intended as a hoax 
by some witless idler, then it is the meaningless fancy of some eccentric 
aboriginal. But one single fact has come under our own notice that 
in any way bears upon the subject of the age of these relics. 

The instance referred to was as follows : On the 3d of July, 18G9, a 
large white-oak, measuring twenty-seven feet in circumference at three 
feet from the ground, during a high gale of wind was blown down. 
A short time afterward the immense stump was uprooted, preparatory 
to leveling the ground. The hole that the extracted roots left measured 
seven feet in depth and thirty-three in circumference. FourTeet below 
the bottom of this hole, or eleven feet from the surface of the ground, 
we found a very rude stone ax, that was entangled in a mass of fibrous 
roots that had been cut off from the main mass of roots of the tree. In 
*Amer. Nat., vol. vi, page IGO. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 261 

this case an as must have been buried iu the earth before this okl tree 
was an acorn. Xovr, as to the age of the tree. There were not less 
than five hundred rings clearly to be traced on a section of the tree 
afterward made ; and a large portion of the center and another portion 
about the circumference could not be determiued accurately, but whicli, 
on comparison with so much of the tree as retained the rings sufficiently 
distinctly to be counted, might safely be estimated at as many more 
circles. 

Without allowing for any time to have elapsed from the occurrence 
of the ax falling on the ground, or of its intentional burial, we have 
hero with considerable certainty the long stretch of one thousand years 
that tliis ax has been quietly resting in the ground. 

Chapter IV. 

CELTS. 

We propose to consider, under the name of "celts,"* the class of relics 
that approach most nearly to the ordinary stone axes, but which are 
without any groove or other indication that a handle has been attached. 
These celts vary more in size among themselves than in any other 
feature; and we have separated the specimens obtained into two classes, 
viz, celts and "skinuing-knives," the latter being, in our judgment, too 
small to be used as weapons, under which heading we think the ordi- 
nary celts, or un grooved axes, must be placed. 

Considered with reference solely to size, we can be moderately sure 
of correct nomenclature in saying that a stone dressed down until its 
thickness is less than half the width, with one end sharpened to a cut- 
ting-edge, and the length not less than five inches, may be taken as a 
celt, or ungrooved ax. Still, it must be borne in mind that smaller 
grooved axes occur. 

The use or uses to which some of the larger of these celts were put 
is very difQcult to conjecture, inasmuch as no trace of a handle having 
been attached can bo detected. Mr. John Evans, however, describes 
several methods employed by savages in hafting just such stone imple- 
ments. A fact to be taken into consideration, however, with reference 
to our Xew Jersey specimens, is, that the great prevalence of grooved 
axes renders it probable that the ungrooved were used without handles, 
since grooved or ordinary axes occur, made of the same hard materials 
as the hand-axes, viz, i^orj^hyry and hornstone. Concerning the use of 
these hand-axes, or " polished celts," Mr. Evans -remarks : "Among 
modern savages we have instances of similar tools being used in the 
hand without the intervention of any haft, though among the Austra- 
lians the butt-end is sometimes enveloped in a mass of resinous matter, 
so as to form a knob which fits the hand." And again : " They were 

" From the Latin celiis, a chisel. 



2G2 ETHNOLOGY. 

also eiaj)loyed in times of war, as weapons of offense and defense, as a 
supplementary kind of tomahawk."* 

The term "wedge*' has been applied to this pattern of "ax," and 
may very possibly be a correct designation for the flattened specimens, 
but scarcely applicable to those that are nearly or quite cylindrical or 
conical in shape. The term " wedge," however, suggests the use of a 
hammer, and we do not usually find the back of the so-called wedge exhib- 
iting traces of having been struck with such stone hammers as were iu 
use when these "wedges" were made. 

Figure 22 imperfectly represents a specimen of the larger uugrooved 
axes, that show but little trace of human workmanship, other than the 
finely-wrought edge, and a limited jjolished surface on the upper and 
lower margins. It measures seven and three-quarters inches in length, 
by three and one half inches in width, at a point a little in advance of 
the middle. It is of ordinary sandstone, and originally was very nearly 
of its present shape. One side is much flatter than the other, and ap- 
pears to have been first pecked away and then somewhat polished. The 
margins have been polished for a short distance from the edge, and, on 
the lower margin, there is a very smooth surface, little over an inch in 
extent either way, that appears to be such "peculiar polished space, 
which has been produced by the friction of the wood," as described by 
Lubbock as exhibited in some specimens found in Europe. There does 
not appear to have been any hard hammering upon the head of this 
stone celt; but, if the handle had been attached after the manner of the 
grooved ax, as the polished space seems to indicate, we cannot see how 
a hard blow could fail to displace the implement. 

While such celts are usually cobble-stones from the river-bed, mate- 
rially altered only at one end in the production of the edge, many are 
porphyry pebbles, handsomely polished over their whole surface, and 
not only admirably edged, but the opposite end frequently ground to a 
very beautiful, tapering point. Such point-headed polished porphyry 
axes are among the very handsomest of all the relics found wit-hin the 
limits of the State. This pattern (figures 23 and 24) is found iu every 
part of the globe where polished stone implements occur, showing it 
best met those common wants of all mankind, wherever thej* may have 
happened to be ; and possibly, if we could determine one use to which 
such axes were adapted, of a strictly universal nature, it would be safe 
to apply a name suggested by such use to this form, now known by the 
objectionable term of " celt." 

Sir Johp Lubbockt figures a celt, similar to figure 23, from Ireland ; 
]I^^ilsson figures^ them from Scandinavia; and the pattern is nearly ap- 
proached in axes from Accra, ^Yest Africa, figured by Sir J. Lubbock. § 

Of a ]>orpl^yry polished celt, similar in shape to fig*ire 23, that the 

*Ancient Stone Implements of Great Britain, page 153. 

t PreJijs.totic Times, 2d ed., figures 97-98, page 88. 

{ Sipuo Age id Scan.diiiavia, plate vii, figures 151 and 102. 

j joarift Antbrtjp. Inst., London, vol. 1, ixxgo xcv (Proc. Btb. Soc.) 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 2G3 

writer forwardetf to Sir J. Lubbock, that arcbteologist writes: "The 
polished as about which you inquire is very similar, as you suppose, 
to the one figured in Prehistoric Times, so much so, indeed, that I had 
placed it in a drawer with similar axes from various other parts of the 
world to show how much they are alike." 

While this form (figure 23) is usually of porphyry and highly polished, 
it is sometimes met with of softer mineral, and the specimen in question 
is peculiarly interesting on this account ; for, although of the tapering 
form, and accurately outlined, it is of sandstone, and pecked into shape, 
having a highly-i)olished edge only, instead of being so worked over 
the whole surface. 

We have ventured to call figure 25 a "celt," rather than a " skin dressei," 
because the cutting-edge varies decidedly in its character from the gen- 
eral run of " skinning-knives." The edge, it will be seen, is narrow, and 
slopes suddenly from the thickest portion of the implement, and is not 
produced by a gradual slope from the back of the instrument, as in the 
majority of so-called skin-dressers, or skinning-knives. There may, per- 
Jiaps, be no sufiQcient reason for calling figure 25 a celt, since its size cer- 
tainly precludes the idea of its utilization for chopping, unless for very 
slender and tender marrow-bones 5 but we have a good example to follow 
in so doing, as we shall see. 

Sir John Lubbock,* in some " Notes on Stone Implements from Africa 
and Syria," gives natural-size figures of stone axes, which certainly are 
identical in shape, and have been used, no doubt, in an identical manner. 
The author says, with reference to them : " Some of the West African 
axes, as will be seen by the figures, (plate ii, figures 1 and 2,) closely re- 
semble some of the smaller axes so common in Western Europe;" and 
adds, as we have already observed of the preceding jiattern, "Indeed, 
this type may be said to be cosmopolitan, and needs no description." 

We find that Sir John Lubbock simply uses the term "ax" in speaking 
of these African relics, and if it is applicable in the one case it is in the 
other, but unless the term is properly applied to implements that cannot 
be made to cut in any useful manner, which is not the case, the designa- 
tion is certainly a misnomer. 

Figure 2G may properly be placed in the same " class" with the pre- 
ceding. Although a much less finished specimen, it was unquestionably 
put to the same uses. It is made of a fine-grained porphyritic stone, and 
has been polished over its entire surface. This little " celt" measures two 
and one-eighth inches in length by one and three-quarters in width. The 
cutting (or skin-detaching^) edge was originally good. The back has a 
ridge running obliquely across it, from which the surfaces slope at an 
angle of forty-five de^^'ees. Had this specimen been used as a wedge 
for splitting wood, certainly the back was not favorably fashioned for 
receivinga hard blow; moreover, the ridge, which in that case would have 

*Joiiru. Authrop. lust., Loudon, vol. 1, paj^e xcii, plate 11, lij^ures 1 and 2, (Etii. 
See. Proes.) 



264 ETHNOLOGY. 

been much battered, is still moderately well preserved. This double-faced 
condition of the backs of small axes is not unfrequent among the grooved 
cobble-stone specimens. 

Localities known to have been the former sites of Indian villages are 
■Q'here these celts are now found in greatest abundance; a fact which 
doe^ not hold good with reference to the grooved stone axes; although 
these, too, have been found in "deposits" occasionally, as described in 
Chapter III. In the instance referred to in the preceding chapter, of a 
depiisit of fifty polished j)orphyry celts, we have possibly an indication 
that the use of these implements was of a domestic and not warlike 
character, supposing that the specimens were buried for the purpose 
of concealing them from an enemy, should a sudden raid be made upon 
the village. If such celts were weapons, they would always be in 
demand, but as domestic implements, there might be times of consider- 
able duration when they would not be required. If so, what method 
more natural than to bury them ? The fact that undoubted weapons 
are also found buried in considerable numbers does not, we think, mili- 
tate against this supposition, since, in the burial of weapons, the deposits 
were made by the makers of such specimens, and were usually in sub- 
terranean arsenals ; the specimens being generally in an unfinished state. 

Chapter Y. 
flint hatchets. 

We have seen that all the specimens as yet described under the head of 
axes and celts have been, without exception, pebbles or " cobble-stones," 
worn into shape by polishiug-stones ot peclced by a stone hammer into the 
required form. We have nowhere made any allusion to a chipped ax. 
The term " chipped " was puri)osely reserved, as it were, for flint-like 
Stone-cutting implements, which we further i)ropose to designate as 
hatchets, to distinguish them from "axes" proper; that is, pecl-ed or 
l)olished pebble implements. The distinction between the two is, that 
an ax has a j)olisbed edge, and a hatchet a chipped edge. 

Flint hatchets (which in New Jersey are never true flint) are found 
associated with other implements, as arrow-points and spear-hcads, in 
very scanty numbers, if we consider the very hatchet-like specimens only 
as really the implement in question, and consider those as "implements" 
having no particular use in view, or as rude spear-heads that do not 
present the ideal outline of the hatchet in every detail. If we chance, 
however, upon the site of an Indian village, or if, along the river or 
creek bank, we come upon a mussel-shell heap or fresh-water KjiJl-l-en- 
modding, these rough flint hatchets will be found much more abundant, 
and sometimes even sufficiently numerous to be quite characteristic of 
the particular locality. 

The flint hatchets vary considerably in size and somewhat in shape, 
and are always of jasper or white quartz. The latter, however, are 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 265 

rare ; at least, we have onl^- met with some eight or teu during four years' 
systematic collecting. The jasper forms are of all the colors that appear 
in that mineral — red, yellow, brown, blue, green, chocolate, and varie- 
gated. They never exhibit the fine finish of some of the nrrow-iX)ints, 
and appear to have been made, in a great measure, of portions ©f the 
jasper masses that could not be fashioned into those remarkably delicate 
shapes which, as will be seen in another chapter, are exhibited in some 
of the arrow-points that we have gathered, tlasper is not found in Xew 
Jersey in situ; fragments and an occasional pebble in the river-gravels 
being all that occur, except in the shape of finished " relics." The frag- 
ments, however, are abundant about sites of aboriginal villages. Sandy 
fields, with no stone of any kind near, are occasionally thickly dotted 
with the little flakes and " failures " of some ancient arrow-maker. 

Figure 27 is a beautiful mass of many-colored jasper, red and yellow 
predominating, that has been laboriously chipped until brought to its 
present shape, which, we think, warrants its being designated a hatchet; 
but, indeed, v»ere there not other specimens to be found that more clearly 
show the work of man, it might be considered merely a chance-shaped 
fragment of a jasper bowlder. We give it the first place in our list of 
hatchets because of its size, it being the largest specimen that we have 
met with, and as serving as a good link between this form of weapon 
and the axes proper ; and certainly-, from its size, it was fitted to perform 
the duties of any ax we have figured. The hatchet (figure 27) mea- 
sures six inches in length by three and one quarter inches in width. It 
is chipped to an edge at one end and along the upper and lower mar- 
gins. The amount of work expended upon it is very great, and we 
should judge to very little purpose, if wood-cutting was the intended use 
of the implement; but for mussel-shell crushing, or, better yet, bone- 
splitting — its most likelj'^ use — it is moderately well adapted. The illus- 
tration is very imperfect in its details, although correct in outline. It 
shows far too few of the innumerable surfaces caused by the forcing-off 
of small flakes, from ever^- portion of the surface, to give a good idea of 
the specimen itself. The edge, which was apparently much sharper, has 
been dulled by use and long weathering. It bears no traces of a handle 
having ever been attached ; and yet it would seem to be comparatively 
useless unless wielded by such an appendage. 

Figure 28 represents a not uncommon form of Hint hatchet, that we 
considered, when we found the specimen figured here, as rare. Since 
then we have met with a large number, all agreeing with it in size, shape, 
and material. It may be questioned, perhaps, if such an implement 
should be called a hatchet; many would look upon it as a "scraper." 
We shall see, however, that those specimens, so abundant in Now Jersey, 
antl which we have called "scrapers,'' are much smaller chipped fiints 
.as a class, and have a handle of the mineral itself; the complete imple- 
ment being chipped out of one piece. We, thereforc, incline to the 
belief that this specimen is a double-edged hatchet, if the ends were 



266 ETHNOLOGY. 

used in cutting, or a single-edged one, if a bone handle was ever 
attached to the lower, straighter margin. With a handle so attached, 
it certainly could then be used advantageously as a hatchet or chopping- 
knife, and, when sharper, as an instrument for detaching the tough hide 
of the bison or deer, both of which, from the crumbling bones that we 
have occasionally exhumed, we note know were formerly found in New 
Jersey. Again, such a hatchet would be useful in breaking apart the 
tough vertebrae of the sturgeon, once so numerous in the Delaware 
Eiver. These immense fish frequent the shallow portions of the stream 
during the summer, and are, even now, captured by the spear when 
found in such localities. If the stone-age people valued the sturgeon as 
an article of food, which is probable, they would require the very largest 
and sharpest of their stone weapons to capture it and to divide the 
carcass. An occasional glance at the fauna of the locality from which 
we gather "relics" will give us many valuable hints as to the probable 
use of the various implements. Again, may not such a chipped flint as 
figure 28 have been a sort of "handy comeby," and not specially set 
apart for any particular use or uses ? Some such shaped flint, bone- 
handled, as we have described, would be admirable for splitting marrow- 
bones, crushing large mussels, girdling trees, or cutting saplings for 
lance-handles ; and, if put to any or all these uses, must we not call it a 
hatchet "I 

Figure 29 represents a form of flint hatchet that approaches the 
"lance-head" in shape, but is, of course, too short and broad to be used 
for such purpose. Having a well-defined edge upon each side, as well 
as in front, where it becomes obtusely-pointed, it appears evident that 
it was used to split rather than to pierce. If a handle was attached, we 
suppose it to have been placed at the flattened or straight base, and to 
have been of bone, as in figure 214 of Lubbock's Prehistoric Times, 
second edition, although this illustration referred to is that of a knife, 
and not a hatchet. We think it not improbable that just such "flints" 
as these were inserted in long wooden clubs as " teeth," and that clubs 
thus formed were used in war. The war-club was, and is, a favorite 
weapon, and the vast majority of such specimens as figure 29 were very 
possibly used in this manner. 

Figure 29 bears much resemblance, except in being more pointed at 
one end, to modern Esquimaux scrapers, as figured by Sir John Lubbock,* 
but is just double the size. There is this diflerence, however, between 
either the modern or the prehistoric scrapers and such an implement as 
we here designate a hatchet, viz, that the former have one flat, smooth 
surface, the plane of a single cleavage, while the hatchets have an edge, 
beveled from each side, which are both equally well chipped. These 
more elaborate "hatchets" may have been used as "scrapers." 

We would also call attention to the similarity of our specimens, as 
represented by figure 29, to a flint implement from Le Moustier, also 

" Prehistoric Times, 2d ed., p. 93, figs. 105-107. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 267 

figured by Lubbock.* Although figure 29 is somewhat hirger, and has 
Dot "one side left unchii)ped,'' the variation in general characteristics is 
very slight, and an identity of the uses of the two specimens is highly 
probable. W'e, too, have met with some specimens of this pattern of 
•• flint hatchet," with such an unchipped surface as is particularly pointed 
out in the Le Moustier implement by Lubbock. Such identity of Eu- 
ropean and American specimens of flint-work, oven to the details, i-> 
certainly remarkable. 

Figures 30, 31, 32, and 33 represent the smaller flint hatchets, which 
are much more abundant than the larger examples which we have just 
described. They do not vary very greatly in their general outline, being 
usually triangular, or nearly so, in shape, and varying but little from 
three inches in length by two inches in greatest breadth. AVe have 
gathered several dozens of these small hachets, usually associated witu 
arrow-points and spear-heads and the other ordinary shapes of surface- 
relics. 

On the sites of the long-past labors of " Indian arrow-makers," and \^ e 
have visited several such localities, these small hatchets are found in an 
unfinished state, mingled with the mass of chippings that accumulated 
during their manufacture, and that of arrow-points, spear-heads, &c. 
The unfinished specimens are almost always such as have been discarded, 
in consequence of some defect in the mineral which was not discovered 
until the specimen was well toward completion. This fact combats, we 
think, the assertion, often made, that the Indian arrow-maker was a good 
practical mineralogist. These specimens were always commenced from 
masses of the rock not a great deal larger than the intended implement, 
and small enough to develop to the experienced the weak points of the 
mineral. 

As already stated, the more usual sizes of hatchets are such as we 
have figured, (figures 30-33.) Their size should be no objection to the 
proposition that they were used as cutting-tools. We have already seen 
that axes are equally small. Sir John Lubbock figures t one from Ire- 
land, which is as small; and, on page 182, speaking of Swiss axes, says, 
" "With few exceptions, they were small, especially when compared with 
the magnificent specimens from Denmark. In length, they varied />o»i 
six inches to one, while the cutting-edge had generally a width of from 
fifteen to twenty lines;" and, again, on page 93, speaking of socalle<l 
"axes," or hatchets of the 7iyo'A7;e/»«dV7(//«rys, says, " They are * * * 
rudely triangular or quadrangular in shape, with a cutting-edge at the 
broader end, and two and a half to five and a half inches in length, with 
a breadth of one and a half to two and a half inches." Now, the New 
Jersey specimens differ only in this, that both sides are chipped; other- 
wise they are identical. As we have abundant reasons for knowing that 
mussels [TJnio and Anodonta) were a favorite food, these little flint 

• Id., p. 3-iO, figs. 182-184. 
tPrelfi.st.oric Times, fig. 98, 2d ed. 



2G8 



ETHNOLOGY. 



hatchets may have beeu used priiicipallj'to crush their shells, inasmuch 
as very many of these implements have been found with heaps of the 
burned shells. 

Yv'e would here call especial attention to the rnde, green-jasper hatchet, 
(figure 30.) which has its edge derived by striking off a large chip, struck 
at one blow, giving it, on one side, a smooth surface, which edge meets 
with the opposite more gradually-wrought surface. This specimen is of 
peculiar interest in agreeing so nearly with an illustration of a Euro- 
pean Kjoll-oimorlding ax, given by Sir John Lubbock, in " Prehistoric 
Times," plate 1, figure 8. 

In conclusion, we would direct attention particularly to the hatchet, 
(figure 33,) which very nearly approaches the lance or arrow head; and 
indeed it may properly be one of these two implements rather than a 
hatchet. We place it here, however, as showing how readily some of 
these smaller weapons run into other forms. While figure 33 would 
make a small spear-head, and be well adapted for that purpose, yet, as 
it appears to us, it is quite as well shaped for a hatchet as any of the 
preceding figures. 

The few chipped jasper implements, which we have designated as 
" flint hatchets," resemble very closely the smaller specimens of " rough- 
hewu celts" figured by Mr. Evans in the fourth chapter of his work."* 
There are some points of difference, however, which are well worth indi- 
cating, and the principal variation is, that our jasper specimens are, as 
a rule, thinner, and show a much more elongated oval section ; indeed, 
in section, the New Jersey specimens are quite irregular, the mineral 
not being as easy to work as the true flint. This difference, however, 
does not arise because the jasper will not yield to chipping and pressure ; 
since for symmetry and accuracy of the beveled edges, some of our jas- 
per arrow-i)oints are not excelled in specimens of a similar character in 
any other part of the world. 

There appears to be fully as much variation in outline in the English 
celts of this class as in the flint hatchets, such as we have described. 
In all, a well-defined cutting-edge obtains, and this feature decides the 
use of the implement, call it by whatever name one may. The " celts" of 
England and '"flint hatchets" of Xew Jersey are so nearly similar that 
we doubt not tliat their uses were identical ; which uses, however, it 
would be difficult to determine accurately, as our only means of learning 
their history is the scarcely safe plan of judging of them, as allied to 
similar implements of iron now in use. 

Some of the flint implements figured by Lartet and Christy, in "i?e- 
liquicc Aquitanicw,''^ bear considerable resemblance to the specimens we 
have figured in this chapter 5 but, just as in the preceding comparison 
with English rough-hewn celts, we find the French specimens are much 
thicker, and shaped by the detachment of much larger flakes, than, as 
a rule, fly off from jasper when it is worked. Indeed, it would appear 

* loc. cii.) pp. 60-77. 



STOrE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 269 

as tbo'.igli the jasper, agate, hornstouc, and cliert, of which our '• tiiut 
iuiplements " are made, is really better adapted to the purpose than true 
flint; for the " cuttiug-edges " of the implements found here in Xew 
Jersey are much sharper and more regular than the same are in the 
allied implements made of true flint ; and this fact may explain why the 
true flint celts had their edges ground, to make them sharp, which grind- 
ing is wholly wanting to the " flint hatchets,'' such as we have de- 
scribed. The edges here are so finely chi])ped and sharp that grinding 
or polishing is unnecessary. We doubt if a ground-edged celt could be 
l)ut to any use to whii.'h the chipped jasper hatchet would not bo equally 
well adapted. 

Chapter YT. 

lance-heads. 

AYherever we find arrow-heads, and other larger specimens, more 
properly designated spear-points, there also occur in varying numbers, 
but nowhere rare, certain leaf shaped and irregularly triangular-worked 
" flints," which we will call "lance-heads." A distinction is made be- 
tween the lance and the spear, inasmuch as the former is without a 
notched or stemmed base, or both, which features singularly or together 
characterize the spear-head proper, which, also, are smaller as a class 
than lance-heads, but too large to be of use if placed at the end of an 
arrow. The size, however, is not of much importance in distinguishing 
the various types, since all classes of weapons invariably merge into each 
other. 

There is considerable variation in the minerals used in the production 
of these lance-heads, and, in localities where they are abundant, are 
usually of the native rocks most easily worked. About the Delaware 
River, and, indeed, throughout the State, the majority of these specimens 
are of slate, the harder, more finely grained, least shelly layers of this 
material having been utilized exclusively. Our collection of them, all 
from the neighborhood of Trenton, N. J., consists of slate, yellow jas- 
per, milky quartz, agate, and a micaceous sandstone, seldom used for 
any purpose, as far as our collecting experience extends. 

While these lance-heads are, we might almost say, never wrought with 
that care which characterizes arrow and spear points, still they have 
had sufficient care bestowed upon them to show that they were for an 
important purpose. They are quite abundant in the bed of the river at 
Trenton ; whether lost during a battle, or overboard during fishing ex- 
cursions, it is impossible to state ; but while, as a class, they certainly 
have a very warlike appearance, they Avould make admirable sturgeon- 
spears, for which purpose they were probably used, since sturgeon was 
once extremely numerous in the Delaware. 

Figure 31 represents an average specimen of these long, slender, fine- 
edged slates, which we have designated lance-heads. They vary little 
from five to seven and one-half inches in length by from two to three 



270 ETHNOLOGY. 

aud oue-balf iuches iu width ; the longer specimeus are usually tbe 
more slender ones, suggesting the possibility of the broader and shorter 
specimens having had a different use from the others ; but whether for 
war or hunting, the larger, more slender slates appear to us to be the 
more effective weapon. 

In no one of these lance-heads have we met with any deep notches in 
tbe sides, near the base, indicating whereby they were attached 
to hafts or handles, as is shown in an English specimen figured by 
Jewitt. Speakingof this specimen, he says,* " It will be noticed that its 
sides, as they begin to diminish, are deeply serrated for fastening with 
thongs to a haft or handle." One si^ecimeu in our collection has a 
single deep notch, presenting the appearance of having been purposely 
made, in chipping tbe specimen, but it is within one and tbree-fourths 
iuches of the point, and the lance-head itself measures five and one- 
half inches in length. Many of these slate lance-heads are weather- 
worn, the faces produced by chipping being very nearly obliterated. 
Such worn specimens are associated with the less-worn and sharply, 
edged ones, and are supposed to be older specimens, discarded in con- 
sequence of the loss of the extreme point or the edge being dulled, and 
replaced by newer and better ones. The abundance of these lance- 
heads may be judged from the fact that in an area of not over one hun- 
dred acres in extent we have collected more than three hundred perfect 
specimens, besides a great number of fragments. 

There is a curious fact to which attention is called with reference to 
these pieces of lance-heads, viz, that fully 95 per cent, of these frag- 
ments are the iwinted halves of the specimens, their excellent state 
of preservation showing that they were broken off while the weapon 
was comparatively new. So unusual is it, in our own experience, to 
find the basal half of a lance-head, that we have sometimes thought it 
possible these so-called broken lance-heads were in reality not frag- 
ments, but purposely fashioned for war-club teeth, as was suggested 
with reference to one of the forms of chipped jasper under the heading of 
'' Hatchets." 

As these points of lance-heads are very abundant in some limited 
localities, it may be that they were broken in battle, and that tbe owner 
of the lance retained the handle with the base still attached, to be re- 
headed. If such were the case, of course the battle-field would have 
about the proportion of points to bases, i. c, 95 per cent. 

Figure 35 1 represents the largest and finest lance-head that has ever 
come under our observation. It measures eleven and one-quarter inches 
in length by but two and seven-eighths inches in width, and is placed at 
the head of the list of this class of specimens on account of its size and 
symmetry. 

Of the history of this magnificent specimen we know nothing, further 
than that it was presented to the East India Marine Society, at Salem, 

*Grave-Mound8 and their Contents, London, 1870, p. 117. 
tOmitted from the illustrations. 



STOXE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 271 

Mass., by Jos. Story, in 1824. It is now iutlie museum of the Poabody 
Academy of Science of the same place, and is labeled as coming from 
x>ew Jersey ; associated "uitli it is a specimen of another class, to be 
figured and described in a succeeding chapter. It is of the same min- 
eral, also from Kew Jersey, and presented by Mr. Story in 1824. 

Figure 35 is chipped from yellow jas|3er, the same in every i)articu!ar 
with the many jasper specimens that we have procured near Trenton, N. 
J. A glance at the illustration will, it is thought, satisfy any one as to 
its intended use, however diflicult it may seem to us to securely attach 
to it a shaft such as would be required to effectively wield so formida- 
ble a weapon. Certainly, the well-defined point, and the width of the 
implement, in comparison with its length, both show that its use was 
for ji'iercxng. Any manner of using other than by thrusting would cer- 
tainly break a piece of stone so slender and somewhat brittle ; and if 
an edge had been intended to be used as a knife, would not the opposite 
^i\^^ have been left blunt, or at least, not been as well chipped as the 
cutting-edge? And if a bone handle had been fastened along one side, 
would not some trace of such handle be visible 1 

As specimens of such large lance-heads are very rare in Xew Jersey, 
it is more than probable that they were the peculiar property of "chiefs,'' 
or " kings," and possibly were used on state occasions as a badge of 
office, rather than on the field of battle. There is too much work on such 
a lance-head as figure 35 to risk its being broken in a fight. 

Messrs. Squier and Davis* figure a " flint" similar to figure 35 in size 
and mineral, but varying from it in being pointed at each end. After 
mentioning the use to which the stemmed examples were put, they add, 
"There are others, however, the manner of using which is not so obvious. 
ISTo. 3 is an example. It measures eleven inches in length by two and a 
halfin greatest breadth. It has been suggested that it was fastened at 
right angles to a handle and used as a sort of battle-ax." We think this 
latter suggestion a very plausible one, as the specimen is double-pointed, 
and with a handle at the center would make a good " double-headed " 
weapon; but, the base of figure 35 being as markedly blunt as the point 
is acute, such use cannot be applied to the specimen we have here 
described. 

Flint lance-head-shaped implements, quite similar to many of our 
surface-specimens of jasper, but less symmetrical as a class, are charac- 
teristic of the " drift" in Europe. Tylor says, t"A set of characteristic 
drift-implements would consist of certain tapering instruments like huge 
lance-heads, shaped, edged, and pointed, by taking off a large number 
of facets, in a way which shows a good deal of skill and feeling for 
symmetry; smaller leaf shaped instruments; flints partly shaped and 
edged, but with one end left unwrought, evidently for holding in the 
hand," &c. 

AYhile the Xew Jersey specimens as a class are probably smaller, 

"Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 211, fig. 99, (No. 3.; 
t Early History of JIan., 2d ed., p. 197. 



272 ETHNOLOGY. 

they were fashioned about equally as caiefally as those Mr. Tylor has 
described. 

Figure oG is a beautifulspecimenof a lance-head of bluish-gray " fliut," 
miueralogically uulike auy other specimen in our collection. It is the 
leaf-form of arrow-head enlarged, aud is of excellent workmanship. This 
measures a little less than five inches in length by two and one-eighth 
inches in greatest width. We havemet with but few specimens of this 
class of the size of figure 36 made of anything but slate, the jasper exam- 
ples generally being considerably larger. It would be interesting to 
know if these lance-heads were considered by their original owners as 
different implements, the size determining the use. It at least seems 
fair to infer that these smaller examples were more used in hunting than 
in war, and just such a lance-head as this is adapted to the chase of such 
aquatic animals as are still to be found within the limits of our State, as 
the otter, muskrat, and, until within a few years, the beaver. These animals 
were hunted with spears, especially in winter, and figure 29 is still keen- 
edged enough to be as effective as the steel spear-point of the present 
day. 

Figure 37 represents a good average specimen of the lance-heads of 
yellow jasper, that are met with about Trenton, X. J., but are compara- 
tively rare elsewhere in the State. The majority of the specimens found 
are somewhat narrower, and a little longer than the one figured, which 
is the only specimen we possess. Figure 37 measures five and one- 
quarter inches in length by three and one-half inches in width. Neatly 
chipped from a large flake of yellow-brown jasper, its edges are well 
defined, as also the point and base. It is nowhere thicker than five- 
eighths of an inch, and is far less heavy than its large extent of surface 
would indicate. Whether used in war or in hunting, it would be diffi- 
cult to determine, but it is of such dimensions as to combine the hatchet 
with the lance, aud, in accordance with the mounting, would deal a tell- 
ing cutting blow or thrust. This specimen is one of a number that were 
discovered in plowing a piece of newly-drained meadow near Trenton, 
N. J. * They were found buried with the i^oints up, and surrounded by 
a sufficient number lying flat to wall them in and hold them erect had 
they been originally placed upon the surface. The collection numbered 
about one hundred and fifty specimens. As stated in the NaturaUst,f 
we had at that time found no isolated specimens, but since then careful 
search has yielded several, all, however, from the immediate neighbor- 
hood of this deposit. We give elsewhere a figure of a second example 
of this deposit, the specimen, though, not being a lance-head, but an 
agricultural implement. (See chapter on " Shovels and hoes.") 

Figure 38 represents the minimum size of such " chipped flints " as 
we would call lanceheads. It is an exaggeration of the very common 
leaf-shaped arrow-head, but too heavy to have been used as such. This 
specimen measures three and one-half inches in length by two and one- 

* Abbott ou " Deposit of Lance-beads," in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phil., 18G3, p. 278. 
t Aiuoricau Naturalist, vol. vi, p. 155. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 273 

quarter iiicbes in widtli. It is chipped from bluisli-gray jasper, and 
varies but little from the preceding except iu size. The edges are still 
quite sharp aud the point good, although the extreme point is appar- 
ently worn away. There is nothing about this specimen or the preced- 
ing to indicate iu what manner a handle was attached, and yet without 
handles these implements seem comparatively valueless, the cutting- 
edges extending so far down as to jeopardize the hand if held naked 
when striking. 

These smaller specimens of lance-heads are far less abundant than 
those of the larger, more slender type, which usually are made of slate, 
as figured in the first pages of this chapter. 

Mr. Evans has figured and described several specimens of well-chipped 
flint implements, which he calls " daggers." They are usually longer, 
but otherwise identical with the average slate and jasper specimens we 
have called " lance-heads," particularly such specimens as figure 30. Mr. 
Evans mentions, however, that these same specimens are also termed 
spear-heads, lance-heads, &c. We cannot think they were ever used as 
" daggers " or " knives " by the aborigines of New Jersey ; either name 
suggesting a short handle, and the use that of a tool rather than that 
of a weapon ; for surely no dagger, as a weapon, would be useful with 
a blade as obtusely pointed as even figure 35. We have to describe iu 
another chapter chipped flints, that we doubt not were true knives ; but 
they differ materially from those we term " lance-heads." The whole 
finish, size, and shape of the " daggers " figured by Mr. Evans, and the 
"lanceheads" illustrated in this chapter, would show that a long shaft 
was originally attached, and that the weapon was then used in trans- 
fixing animals in the chase, or, giving the weapon all the force that 
could be brought to bear upon it, in impaling an enemy in battle. As a 
head for such lance, these specimens seem in every way appropriate j 
but we perceive nothing desirable about them as " daggers," especially 
after examining the beautiful flint-daggers of Scandinavia, which are in 
all respects admirable for the purposes implied by the term " dagger." 

There are abundant instances where the use and proper name of an 
implement are matters of doubt ; but to call such specimens as we have 
designated '' lance-heads" by a name that expresses a use to which we 
could not put them only increases the coniusion caused by want of 
some safe rule by which to be guided. So, too, these " lance-heads " 
have been called knives, and CKcellent spear-points have been so called 
by Nilsson. He says, "A spear is, properly speaking, nothing but a 
* * * knife fastened to a long shaft. It is, therefore, often impossi- 
ble to judge from the blade whether it has l)een a S2)car or a l-nife."' Of 
the American specimen above alluded to, he says tluit the handle was 
five inches long, and a loop was fastened to the handle. Judging from 
the plate, the loop and short handle were to be fastened, the one by the 
other, to a long shaft, which would thus nuikc a good weapon of what 
seems now but a very awkward tool, and one that appears the more un- 
necessary as excellent and undoubted knives are quite abundant. 
S. Mis. 115 18 



274 ETHNOLOGY. 

Chapter VII. 

HUNTING-SPEARS. 

We may, perhaps, be charged with haviug carried the separation of 
relics into classes too far ; and that, in some cases, we have been making 
a distinction where none exists. Indeed, where but comparatively few 
specimens are found scattered over fields, the impression is natural that 
the whim only of the arrow-maker dictated the various shapes and sizes; 
and that all the smaller "pointed flints" are arrow-heads, unless the size 
is such as positively to render them unfit for such a purpose. 

We have been fortunate enough, however, to make very large collec- 
tions of these relics, (over six thousand spear and arrow points,) and 
have been able to satisfy at least ourselves of the correctness of the 
separate designations adopted, inasmuch as the circumstances under 
which a great many of these specimens were found show that, while the 
lance-heads were largely, if not wholly, a war- weapon, these so-called 
spear-points were as exclusively used in the chase. While lances are 
often abundant in a limited locality, and very frequently broken into 
halves, indicating a battle-field, spears are found singly, scattered over 
the whole country, upland and lowland, except where a great mixture 
of everything indicates a former settlement or an ancient arrow-maker's 
work-shop. 

Figure 39 represents a carefully-chipped dirty-white agate, whose 
size, outline, shape of base, and comparative thickness render it a good 
type for such of our relics as are designated "hunting-spears." Figure 
39 measures four and fi.ve-eighths inches in length by one and one-half 
inches in width at the base, where it begins to taper gradually to the 
point. The notches at the base are deep, similarly curved, and have 
the stem well shaped, projecting directly from them, but short, consid- 
ering the length of the main portion of the specimen. 

The size at once indicates it use : a head for a long shaft, that was 
intended for thrusting at an object, and then w^ithdrawn, the attach- 
ment of head to handle being secured by the deep notches at the base 
of the specimen. The length of this specimen is sufficient to secure, by 
its use, any of the larger mammals of the period of the occupancy of 
the country by the aborigines, unless it be the elk or wapiti, and, even 
in this case, a thrust between the ribs would cause an unpleasant wound 
. were the spear-head buried its full length in the animal's body. 

More care has been exercised in making this specimen than was put 
upon lance-heads as a class ; and as hunting-implements were more easily 
recovered than war-weapons, and less likely to be broken, we can readily 
see that pains would be taken to have more effective points and edges 
on specimens that were less likely to be lost or injured in using. Hunt- 
ing, too, was the sole means (if we except maize-culture) of existence ; 
and war, although certain at intervals, was not an every-day affair, and 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 275 

thus is afforded another reason for the belief that these more carefully 
wrought specimens were set apart as a most imi)ortant, if not the most 
important, implements for securing food. 

Figure 40, like the preceding, represents a i)erfect specimen of the 
hunting-spear, being somewhat shorter and broader than ligure o9. 
This specimen is chipped from a yellow jasper, veined with glassy 
quartz, a favorite mineral with the arrow-makers. It is very well, but 
not as finely cut as are many arrow-points, and shows, by its whole 
appearance, that it was worked with a view rather to strength and dura- 
bility than to elegance of finish. The point and sides are still very 
sharp, and capable of inflicting a fearful wound if thrust with moderate 
force. This specimen measures three and three-fourths inches in length 
by a little less than one-half this measurement in greatest width. 

Figure 41 is an elegantly-outlined and admirably-finished specimen 
of a spear-head, considering that the mineral out of which it was chipped 
is a tough, micaceous, quartz-like rock, which, in the shape of glacial 
bowlders, abounds in the drift about the central portion of the State. It 
has a most uncertain fracture, and was very little used as material for 
arrow or spear heads, as far as our experience extends. 

This specimen exhibits a peculiarity not observable in any other of 
the series in our collection, but one which is seen in one of our arrow- 
points, viz, in having a twist to the body of the S])ear-point, whereby 
the edges are at a slight angle to the barbs, or projecting i^oints, of the 
base. This feature, which is most noticeable when viewing the speci- 
men from the point downward, extends along the whole extent of the 
sides. We believe this peculiarity to have been intentional on the part 
of its maker, and was designed to give the spear a rotary motion, by 
fastening to a short haft, probably feathered, and known as a dart. 
Although worn now, the point has the appearance of being once very 
sharp, so that a strong throw would enable it to pierce the skin of small 
mammals. 

Figure 42 represents a very fine specimen of a beautiful style of spear- 
heads, which, however, have invariably lost their stems, suggesting 
that being thrust in only as far as the commencement of the stem, the 
aninud has been able to break it there, and possibly escape. This sug- 
gestion conflicts, we know, with a previous assertion that spears were 
less a])t to be broken than war-lances, but it would bo very strange if 
occasional hunting-spears were not broken in the chase, and the slender 
stem, in comparison with the width of the blade of the implement, ren- 
ders this form peculiarly frangible. This pattern of spear-head is not 
at all common, but having found several examples it cannot be properly 
considered as " quite rare." 

In workmanship, the specimen in question excels that of figure 40, a 
characteristic possibly due to the greater tractability of the mineral, 
which is a dark-yellow jas[)er, wholly free from veins of quartz or other 
minerals, and therefore most favorable for working. 



276 ETHNOLOGY. 

It will be noticed tliat we Lave outliued a base in the illustration as 
simply a sliort straight projection of the width only of the fractured 
surface. AVe think this was the shape of the complete specimen, since 
a few fragments of about this size and shape have been picked up, none 
of which, however, would fit any of the specimens that we gathered. If 
our hypothesis as to tbe shape of the stem is correct, it was probably 
simply inserted into a slit made in the end of the haft, and, while secure 
enough when being carried about, was i^robably dislodged in the body 
of the animal into which it was thrust. Since the wound it caused 
would almost certainly be fatal, the spear-point could be recovered. 
Of course, such a spear-point as this, although intended for hunting, 
would be valuable, and was probably used in war. Perhaps no relic 
(used for a single purpose) was exclusively available for several uses ; 
but everything considered, we believe this and the i^receding and fol- 
lowing " spears " to have been intended for hunting. 

Figure 43 is a very beautiful specimen, a very unusual form of spear- 
head, chipj)ed from a pale pea-green mass of jasper. It is a pretty, 
regularly-outlined triangle of jasper, the base measuring two and five- 
eighths inches in width, which is the exact length of the specimen from 
the point to the commencement of the tang or stem. The stem itself is 
but a little over three-fourths of an inch in length, and a little broader 
than the length at the base of the body of the specimen. It suggests 
the chase rather than war. But in either, it would not require much 
force to drive such a spear-point through an animal, even though it 
might come in contact with a bone. 

Figure 44 represents the ordinary hunting-spear, made of slate and 
other comparatively soft stone, so abundant in some portions of New 
Jersey. Three inches in total length by about one and one-half in 
greatest width, as a class they differ somewhat in the details of outline, 
but have a general resemblance that at once distinguishes them from 
everything else, unless they are looked ui^ou as simply large arrow- 
heads. We have found very many single specimens of this form of 
spear-point in " out of the way " places along the shores of small streams, 
formerly and still marshy, and worthless for grain or grass, and there- 
fore the resort of some of the few mammals that are rapidly becoming 
extinct by the encroachments of man. The finding of such single speci- 
mens in likely hunting-places is more confined to just such spear-heads 
as the specimen figured than to any other class of relics, not excepting 
even axes, which are pretty evenly distributed over our State. 

Figure 45 represents a rude slate hunting-spear, such as is occasion- 
ally found wherever relics of any description at all occur. It seems a 
little curious that so few specimens of this pattern, made of slate, should 
be met with, as it certainly is a good form for hunting or war purposes; 
nor are those of this shape made of jasper very abundant. Specimens 
of this size, of any mineral, are not common ; and nearly all that we have 
found, and the majority of the specimens in the various cabinets we have 
visited, have been in a more or less fragmentary condition. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 277 

Figure 45 is now dull along the whole extent of its edges or sides ; the 
point lias been broken off, and a "blunt" point chipped subsequently, 
which is now also weatherworn ; and the entire surface is now worn and 
appears soft. The decomposition, however, does not extend very deeply 
into the mineral, but appears to be rather a thin coating, as rust covers 
exposed surfaces of iron ; and like the latter, too, the decomposed stone 
coating this specimen protects the mineral beneath from further decay, 
as the rust protects the metal. 

Figure 4G well represents that even smaller form of spear-point that 
very nearly approaches the arrow-heads iu size. We have previously 
considered it as the latter, but, by experiment with some of these inter- 
mediate forms, we are satisfied that tlie arrow was never tipped with 
specimens as broad as this, although occasionally an arrow-head was 
made and used with equal or even greater length. The one in question 
is of slate, the stem of which was formerly a little more prolonged, but 
the difference between the size as figured and the unbroken spear-point 
■was trifling. It lias measured two and one-fourth inches in length by 
one and one-half inches in width at the base. Any specimen, even of 
this length, that was» narrower, we should class as an arrow-point. 

Figure 47 represents an odd form of relic, bearing resemblance rather 
to a "scraper" than to either spear or arrow point. From close exam- 
ination of the base, however, we are satisfied that it was not intended 
for a scraper;* the condition of the chipped edges and point indicate 
clearly that they were intended to be the useful features of the specimen. 
Figure 47 is chii>ped from a mass of mottled slate, and has by use or long 
exposure become quite smooth ; it measures two and three-eighths inches 
in length by one and one-half inches in width at the broadest portion of 
the basal half. It is not apparent how this specimen was secured to a 
shaft, but the evident worthlessness of the implement, unless so attached, 
renders it certain that, inasmuch as the form is by no means an uncom- 
mon one, the aborigines contrived a satisfactory way of so fixing it. 

We have a large number of specimens of slate spear-points in our 
cabinet, besides those of jasper, but no pattern that materially varies 
from the eight illustrations herein given. 

Judging from Loskicl's description of the Indian manner of making 
war, it is not probable that any considerable number of these spears 
were habitually used for war-weapons. He says : " The offensive 
weapons formerly in use were bows, arrows, and clubs. The latter 
were made of the hardest wood, not quite the length of a man's arm, 
and very heavy, with a large round knob at one end. Their weapon of 
defense was a shield made of the tough hide of the buffalo, on the con- 
cave side of which they received the arrows and darts of the enemy, but 
this is now entirely laid aside by the Dela wares, &c." While noticeably 
the "spear" is not mentioned among the weapons formerly in use, 

*Yidh Amer. Nat., vol. 7, p. 503, fijjj. 1:55. Ilorc it will be seen that wo have recon- 
sidered the specimen as a tfue "scraper." 



278 ETHNOLOGY. 

the " dart'' is referred to in conueetiou with tlie use of the shield ; but 
whether this " dart" refers to spears headed with such implemeDts as 
w'e have described in this chapter, or to the lance-heads described in 
Chapter VI, it is impossible to say. Probably to both; the lance-head 
pattern being the more usual form of the "dart" referred to by Loskiel.* 
Several reasons have already been given in Chapter VI why lance- 
heads, or those long, leaf-shaped implements we have designated as 
such, were used iu battle, and it is evident that since they served a 
double purpose, as implements of the chase and weapons of war, so, too, 
these hunting-spears were available in battle. 

Chapter VIII. 

nsniNG-SPEAES. 

In every collection of Indian relics, there will be found a few speci- 
mens of a certain long, tapering form of " arrow-head," which we desig- 
nate "fishing-spears," and we propose to describe them as a separate 
and distinct form, fashioned for the ijarticular purjiose implied iu the 
name given them. 

The form iu question is comparatively rare in the fields or associated 
with other weapons or implements of the chase, but quite common on 
the shores and in the beds of those fishing-localities that are nearest to 
known sites of ancient Indian villages ; hence the name chosen — fishing- 
spears. They are abundant in the Delaware River, in the shallower 
pebble-bottomed portions of the stream, but usually broken ; the same 
is the case at Crosswick's Creek, near Trenton, N. J. 

Figure 48 represents what may be taken as the type of this class of 
hunting-implements. With the exception of the loss of the extreme 
point, the specimen is perfect. Less than three-fourths of an inch in 
width at the base, it measures four inches in length, and is a.s long, for 
its width, as any example of fishing-spear that we have seen. The shape 
itself, as it seems to us, would scarcely suggest any other use than that 
of fishing. Its adaptability for the purpose is admirable. Of hard min- 
eral, sharply edged, acutely pointed, and well stemmed, to insure safe 
attachment to the shaft, it meets every requirement for spearing rock- 
fish, shad, herring, gar, chub, or even young sturgeon, all of which were 
abundant in the Delaware, in the bed of which stream this implement 
was found. 

Figure 49 represents a good-sized fishing-spear, which formerly we 
looked upon as an arrow-head. It is admirably chipped from a bluish- 
gray mineral, nuich resembling true flint. Occasionally such a specimen 
as this is met with in the inland localities where relics are found ; but 
it is unquestionably a form used almost exclusively in spearing fish. We 

*[Iu Loskiel's original work, published in German, (Barby, 1789,) nothing is said 
txhont darts. The passage runs thus: "As defensive weapons thoy used shields made 
of hard buffalo skin, convex on the outer side for keeping off the arrows of the enemy." 
(P. 183). The dariH are an addition of the English translator.— J. II.] 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 279 

have gathered a great mauy of this particular pattern auoiit the shores 
of the rivers, near their mouths, where the larger and strictly marine 
fish are abundantly met with. In such localities, however, as the depths 
of the water and habits of the fish render spearing, at least note, a some- 
what slow process, it is probable that the bow was used, the arrows 
being headed with such spear-points of the kind figured ; or perhaps 
the number of the fish was formerly so much greater than now that 
the shallower waters were more frequented, and the fish secured thii eiu 
by spearing. 

Figure 50 is a style of fish-spear that is very abundant; and having 
occasionally met with several broken ones together in localities distant 
from water, the conclusion is they were most likely used occasionally in 
hunting small mammals. The specimen figured is chipped from a frag- 
ment of slaty rock ; from great age, much use, or other cause, its extreme 
point has been lost, while the chipped edges are dulled. Like the pre- 
ceding illustrations, this specimen has a well-shaped stem, showing 
thereby that, whatever its i)articular use, it was intended to be securely 
fastened to a shaft. Where spears were used in capturing large fish, it 
would, of course, require much strength at the junction of the head and 
handle, as the struggles of some fishes arc very violent. 

Figure 51 represents a form of fish-spear that approaches very nearly 
to the arrow-heads, and to a series of broad-based specimens, to be sej)- 
arately considered, which are by many archaeologists claimed to be stones 
so shaped for drilling other stones. This form is usually wrought in 
slate, and is not uncommon. It and other similarly-shaped specimens 
were gathered on the Pennsylvania shore of the Delaware Eiver, oppo- 
site Bordentown, N. J. The most conspicuous feature in its being dif- 
ferent from the preceding jiatterns consists in the i^lain, or unnotched, 
base. It does not appear how this shape of fish-spear could be very 
securely fastened to a handle, which, it would be supposed, was the 
important feature of a spear for such purposes. Certainly, arrow-head 
making and similar work was no such easy matter, even to adepts, that 
the well-wrought points could bo risked by insecure fastenings. Had 
not this pattern been I'ound more frequently in fishing-localities than 
upon the uplands, associated with other relics, it would not have been 
classed with fish-spears; but, under the circumstances, we believe it to 
be properly so classed, although the others figured are far better adapted 
to fishing. 

Figure 52 represents a variety of lishspear that we previously have 
called an arrow-head. Of exactly this pattern, we have only seen this 
one specimen. From the locality where found we learn nothing con- 
cerning it, a very stony field that for over a century has been under 
uninterrupted cultivation ; and it really seems incredible that a form so 
easily destroyed as this should finally have been pricked uji in its present, 
probably almost perfect, condition, for we doubt if there was a repetition 
of the symmetrical barbs. Beautifully wrought in dull-green jasper, it 



280 ETHiNOLOGY. 

lias the slender stem of the fish-spears generally ; but, unlike these, has 
the depressed barb-like projections at or near the base, which add to the 
beauty of the specimen, and also, we suppose, to its efficiency as an im- 
plement of the chase. This specimen is much ilatter than the flsh-spears 
generally, which usually have a median ridge running the whole length 
of the stem, and from it uniformly are sloped the sides to the sharp 
edges, which seem more carefully worked even than very many of the 
true arrow-points. This thin condition of the stem, it would seem, must 
weaken the specimen very much, and so it may possibly be questioned 
if it tcere intended as a spear-point. If, however, we recall the compar- 
ative degrees of risk of loss to which such a specimen would be subjected, 
as a spear-point for fishing or an arrow-head, we will be forced to admit 
that an arrow- head of this size could only be used to advantage with 
large game, and if it came violently in contact with a bone or was but 
partially embedded in the body of the animal, it would certainly be 
broken by the creature in its endeavors to free itself from it. 

One* capable of a correct opinion as to the use of any stone imple- 
ment says : "I am inclined to regard them," (several specimens figured 
in American Naturalist for March and April, 1872, including figure 52,) 
"as boring-tools rather than arrow-points, though doubtless one imple- 
ment passes into the other." We have ourselves given this subject of 
boring-tools much study, taking as the basis a very large suite of pointed 
forms in our collection, but are unable to see why such pointed flints 
should be considered tooU only. There is no trace whatever of wear 
on the point, and if designed as tools they were never so used, not one 
of all the many specimens of drilled stones in our collection showing 
any indication of being bored by such a specimen as this, while all the 
drillings of a larger caliber than the width of the stem of this specimen 
have been bored with a hollow tube, probably a reed, sand and water. 
We see no reason to look upon this specimen as a tool ; but having 
many others that appear more adapted as such, we class the series of 
"pointed forms" as tools instead of as implements of the chase, and 
shall consider them in detail with reference to the subject of "Drilling 
in stone." 

Figure 53 represents a neat specimen of flint-chipping, which seems to 
be a fish-spear, but which has one or two peculiarities not in accord with 
modern ideas of a desirable implement of this kind. 

In the first place, figure 53 can scarcely be said to have a point, such 
as would be requisite for fishing were this particular specimen de- 
pended upon for success. What point there is is blunt, and was 
always so. Moreover, the implement is decidedly twisted, and was so 
chipped, but otherwise the si)ecimen is carefully worked, and exhibits 
at the base a peculiarity very uncommon to the New Jersey specimens, viz, 

* We are glad to have an ppportunity to acknowledge our indebtedness to Mr. William 
A. liaker, of Auburn, X. Y., through whom wo have received the above-quoted opinion 
of Mr. Greenwell, of England. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 281 

a doiibly-uotclied base. A third peculiarity of the specimen consists in 
one side being abnost perfectly Hat, while the other is about as ridged 
and sloping from a central line as in the ordinary spears and arrow- 
points. The flat side is not at all the result of a single plane of cleav- 
age, but has been carefully chipped, with fully as many distinct planes 
as the other side. Tiiat it was intentional on the part of the arrow- 
maker appears unquestionable, but what the object was in thus fash- 
ioning it is a mystery. 

Figure 53 measures three and three-fourths inches in length by one 
inch and one-half at the upper edge of the base. The material is a 
brownish-gray jasper, with a delicate veining of light blue. 

As an arrow-point, this specimen would prove too large and heavy, 
and the crooked point certainly does not suiigest a drill for boring. 

Figure 54 is a beautifully-shaped specimen, chipped from a hard piece 
of bluish slate-rock. The point and slender stem are admirably finished 
and well preserved. The large base is also chipped to a sharp edge, as 
though it were also intended for cutting. While no indication exists of 
the use of the specimen, since it was found associated with other forms 
of spears in the bed of Crosswick's Creek, we believe it to be a fish-spear, 
or, at any rate, an implement of the chase. On com})arison with the 
jiointed specimens described in Chapter XY, it serves to show how one 
form of implement merges into another. 

This specimen is three and one-eighth inches in length by one inch 
and one-half broad at the base. It is quite thin, but, unlike the preced- 
ing, is equally ridged about the center of each side. 

Figure 55 is a smaller, butbeautifull^^ symmetrical, specimen of fivSh- 
spear, and forms a good connecting-link between these and the arrow- 
heads iiroper. We have seen few more admirably-wrought specimens 
of jasper-chipping thau this one. With the extreme point, now broken 
off, this specimen measured tw^o and three-fourths inches in length by 
one inch in width at about its middle. 

That such a specimen could be used as an arrow-point is certain 5 but 
since the vast majority of true arrow-heads are shorter, or broader if of 
equal length, we do not believe this to have been intended as such an 
implement. Glancing over our collection of fish-spears as gathered 
about Trenton, N. J., we find that a very great mnjority of them are of 
slate, and well provided with notched or stemmed bases. The narrow 
portion is not always straight, but, with very few exceptions, the edges 
are as uniform as chi[)ping will secure. There is but a single specimen 
of lishspear in our cabinet with a serrated edge. It is now compara- 
tively soft from being much weather-worn, and the teeth along the sides 
are blunted, still they show that they were originally a marked charac- 
teristic of the specimen. 

Mr. Evans has figured* one specimen of fish-spear, which is beauti- 
fully worked and is very similar in detail to the specimen from the Del- 

*Anc. Stouo Imp. G. B., p. 3139, iig. 'M2. 



282 ETHNOLOGY. 

aware Eiver, (figure 48.) He says of it, it " is so large that possibly it 
may be regarded as that of a javelin, and uot of an arrow." It is shorter 
by half an inch than our specimen, although otherwise of about the 
same dimensions. 

In Chapter I, reference was made to the excellence of the fishing- 
grounds about Trenton, N. J., at the time the first settlers arrived there; 
and it may probably be well to note some of the more common and 
larger species that frequent the Delaware Eiver. Prominent is the 
well-known shad, {Alosa prcestaUis, DeKay,) which enters the river, from 
the sea, in March, and continues to arrive and work up-stream through 
the spring months and June. North of Trenton, N. J., or above tide- 
water, they spawn in the river, and also in many of the tide- water creeks. 
This fish was probably more caught by weirs and other like means than 
by spearing, as they do not often enter shallow streams or wander from 
the channel of the river. 

Loskiel remarks: "In Carolina, the Indians frequently use fire in 
fishing. A certain kind of fish will even leap into the boats which 
have fire in them." 

We can readily see how, in " fire-fishing," the spear would be abso- 
lutely necessary, since few fish are more than attracted icithin reach by the 
light of a fire ; but, as we know by experience, this attraction suffices to 
keep them hovering about the boat as long as the fire burns brightly, 
and that the " false shots " one may make in trying to spear these dazed 
animals does not at all frighten them off. The large cyprinoids, as 
Semotilus rhotheus, and the so-called " suckers," are the most easily 
speared of all our fishes when once attracted by a blazing fire. 

The pike, [Esox reticulatus^) rock-fish, {Roccus Uneatus,) and yellow- 
perch, {Perca Jlavescens,) are all species that attain to a large size, 
and, judging from their present habits,* were no doubt eagerly sought 
with the spear by the Indian. The habit of the first mentioned of 
the three, that of lying in shallow water, underneath the leaves of the 
water-lily, [ISlymphea^) makes it a most desirable species to "hunt," inas- 
much as it can be got near to by the exercise of a moderate amouut of 
care; and one cannot doubt the ability of the ancient or modern Indian 
to silently approach an unsuspecting fish or bird or mammal. This 

*We say "judging from their present habits," (for it is very certain that the habits 
of even fish have changed since the occupancy of this country by the European,) and, 
although this is not tlie place for the discussion of this most interesting question, 
would add, that, so far as our observation extends, the species of mammals, birds, and 
fishes remaining in the neighborhood of " settled" localities tiave changed their habits 
80 far as is necessary to ])rotect themselves from the attack and pursuit of luan. Mam- 
mals are more strictly uoctnrnal when living in thiclily-settled farming-districts ; birds 
also are more nocturnal in their habits, and locate their nests at greater elevations, 
and in thickly-tangled thickets ; while fish, too, soon learn that they are safest in 
deep waters, and will regard with greater suspicion an unusual object when placed iu 
a frequented portion of the stream than when the same object is deposited in remote 
localities where they are seldom if ever disturbed. 



1 



STOXE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 283 

fact shouW be borne constantly in mind in discussing the probable uses 
of the various hunting-implements. 

A stone spear, hatchet, lance-head, or arrow-point, may seem to us a 
most uncouth and almost impracticable weapon ; but the capabilities 
of the makers and users of these implements very far exceeded ours 5 
they knew the habits of their game better than we now know those of 
the same species. Traveling where we could not move, they could 
silently gain access to points that only study and mechanical contriv- 
ances enable us to reach. Eemembering this, it is easy to realize how a 
rude spear could be utilized in transfixing a wary fish, impaling it prob- 
ably while it was in rapid motion. 

Loskiel says, " Hunting is the principal aiul most necessary employ- 
ment of the Indians, and next to war the most honorable. For this 
reason, all Indians, but chieHy the Delawares, are very expert and ex- 
perienced huntsmen. 

" The boys learn to climb trees when very young, both to catch birds 
and to exercise their sight, which by this method is rendered so (juick 
that in hunting they see objects at an amazing distance. In detecting 
and pursuing game, they almost exceed the best-trained dog in follow- 
ing its course with certainty. They run so swiftly that if a deer does 
not fall upon the first shot, they throw off their blanket and seldom fail 
to overtake him. 

" Their contrivances for decoying and securing game are innumerable. 
They study this from their infancy, and many remain whole years in 
the woods in the way of jiractice." 

We can see from this description how entirely familiar were the Indi- 
ans with the habits of the various animals pursued ; and having all the 
advantages of agility, fieetness, strength, and keen vision, the rude 
quality of their hunting-implements was more than compensated for. 

There were two species of fishes formerly very abundant in the Dela- 
ware River, still to be met Avith, but in rapidly decreasing numbers, viz, 
the sturgeon and gar, which we doubt not were most eagerly pursued 
by the Indian. The size of both, and the value of the former especi- 
ally as food, would naturally render them attractive objects of pursuit; 
but no such fishing-spears as we have here figured would be available 
in capturing a full-grown si)ecinjen of either. 

The sturgeon {xVcipeiiHcr) frequently attains a length of eight feet, 
while some gars {Leindosteus) taken in the Delaware have measured five 
feet. With such fish to deal with, the very stoutest of the liunUny- 
spears we have described would alone bo of use ; and even with tbem 
it would appear a laborious task to finally subdue and land these large 
and powerful denizens of the water. 

Just as the broad-bladed, stout hunting-spear was frequently, we 
think, used in capturing the largest of our river-fisli, so it is probable 
that these long, slender forms of spear-points were occasionally used for 
the smaller mammals, for wbich they are as available as any stone weapon 



284 ETHNOLOGY. 

that could be devised ; yet we doubt not the principal purpose of their 
manufacture was that of spearing fish, and that the other uses to which 
they A\ ere put were goverued by the custom of adaptation to circum- 
stances. 

Chapter IX. 

ARROW-HEADS. 

As almost every variety of mineral is utilized by the arrow-maker, 
and a great variety of forms and sizes adopted, it is almost useless to 
attempt any classification of arrow-heads ; for, whatever series of char- 
acteristics we may select to guide us in their study, we find in every 
thousand specimens so many exceptions to our limited rule that we 
finally abandon it in despair. One peculiarity, however, as regards dif- 
ferent localities is worthy of note, viz, that when the Indians selected 
a site for a settlement near a peculiarly suitable mineral in sihi, they 
exclusively used this material, and thus arrow-heads of such a mineral 
became a feature of such neighborhood ; and further, where such selected 
mineral could not be well worked except in the larger forms, then the 
feature of size would also mark such a vicinity ; but when arrow-heads 
are in abundance — as in a locality like Trenton, J^. J. — where no suit- 
able mineral is in situ, then every variety of size, shape, and stone will 
be found. 

Being evident that much skill was required to fiishiou these arrow- 
heads, it is a wonder why such a variety of shapes should have been 
adopted, since many of them are very delicate, and yet do not show that 
they possessed any advantage over the plain triangular flints ; especially 
is this the case in the long, slender barbs rounded at the end, which 
require greater force than a sharply-pointed barb to enter the body, 
but which produce no more ugly or dangerous wound. 

It is observed that there is a class of so-called " rude implements" the 
apparent use of which preceded that of the better-known stone axes, 
hatchets, and flint knives. So, also, is there a series of roughly -fash- 
ioned arrow-points, which, although associated with the others, have 
every appearance of being older. Whether the "Indian" originated in 
America or came hither, which is not improbable, certain it is, however, 
that the arrow-points he used, and now found here, were made in this 
State ; and as these rude specimens are the simplest in detail, made of 
the more easily worked min(>rals, and have undergone deep surface- 
decomposition, it may be concluded they are the first used after the thin 
flakes, shelled off in forming other weapons, were discarded as too prim- 
itive. 

Figure 5G represents a " chance-flake," it may be, that flew off at a 
blow of the hammer in shaping a hatchet, knife, or rough slate lance- 
bead. Subsequently, it was given an indented or concave base, and, 
thus shaped, used as an arrow-head. Just such rough specimens are 
picked up every day by twos and threes. None are more primitive than 
this, but the somewhat better outlined are scarcely more finished or in- 



1 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 285 

dicate any greater amount of care in their manufacture. There is no 
fine flaking about them, while the fractured surfaces are all large. 

Figure 57 represents a well-preserved specimen of rude arrow-head, 
with a well-shaped "tang," or stem, for insertion into the shaft of the 
arrow. Like the preceding, there is here a total want of delicate chip- 
ping. The detaching of a few large flakes has formed the specimen, 
which, notwithstanding the rough workmanship, has a well-detiued 
point and sharp cutting-edges. It measures nearly two inches in length, 
the stem constituting two-fifths. If the arrow-maker who chipped this 
specimen was disposed to improve the quality of his work, he should 
certainly have felt encouraged when comparing this with such as the 
preceding specimen. It may be doubted by many whether figure 56 
really represents an arrow-point, but no doubt certainly can exist with, 
reference to this specimen, figure 57. 

Figure 58 represents a common form of rude arrows-head, such as is 
frequently found in the bed of the river, (Delaware.) It is a fragment 
of slate-rock, roughly shaped for arrow-head i)urposes, the edges and 
point being moderately well defined. There is a rude attempt at a stem, 
that places this specimen intermediately between figures 50 and 57. 
The surface in this specimen is as rough as in the preceding examples, 
with as large and irregular flakes hammered or pressed off. The speci- 
men apparently antedates the days of laborious jasper-chipping. 

Figure 59 represents a marked improvement in the shaping of rough 
arrow-points. There is, in this instance, a moderately well-defined me- 
dian ridge, from which the sides taper or slope to a sharp edge. The 
I)oint is thin, slender, and well preserved j the base, or stem, is well 
defined, but there are no attempts at barbs. The specimen measures 
just two inches in length. The material is a compact sandstone that 
readily scratches glass. It is even more modern in appearance than the 
preceding figure, 57. 

Figure GO represents an admirably-shaped triangular arrow-point, 
that has been brought to a point and edge with more care than is usu- 
ally to be detected in " rude" arrow-heads as a class. There is a shal- 
low notch at each angle of the base, giving the specimen a stemmed 
appearance. It measures one and one-fourth inches in length and seven- 
eighths of an inch in width, and compares favorably with the jasper trian- 
gular arrow-points so abundantly met with in every part of the State. 

Figure Gl represent a roughly-made slender " point," that should per- 
haps be considered as an " early" harpoon i^oiut rather than an arrow- 
head. It is of soft material, with very crooked edges, but a well-defined 
point. It measures three and one-fourth inches in length, and is just 
one inch wide at the base. 

Professor Nilsson* says, " We may divide arrow-heads into such as 
have, and such as have not, a tang, or projection, for insertion into the 
shaft." Sir John Lubbockt quotes Sir W. II. Wilde, who divides the 

*Stone Age in Scandiiiavia, Eng. ed., p. 43. 
t Prehistoric TinieH, 2d cd., p. 98. 



28G ETHNOLOGY. 

arrow-heads of Ireland into five varieties. "Firstly, tlie triangular, 
which frequently had a notch on each siile to receive the string which 
attached it to the shaft ; secondly, that which is hollowed out or indented 
at the base; thirdly, the stemmed arrow, which has a tang, or projec- 
tion, for sinking into the shaft; fourthly, that with wings prolonged 
on each side, this passes into the barbed arrow ; finally, we have the 
leaf-shaped form." Mr. Lubbock continues by asserting that the true 
arrow-heads are about one inch in length, which we cannot but think is 
too small a measurement. Two inches, and less, we believe to be a 
more probable range in length. 

The first specimen of the comparatively newer and better-finished 
arrow-points to which attention is called is that given in figure 62, 
Avhich represents one of the most common forms of tanged or stemmed 
" points." The specimen is of yell6w jasper, of which mineral the 
great majority of this pattern is made. Unlike some forms, there can 
be no question as to the use to which this specimen was put. It is 
most admirably adapted as the head of an arrow ; the sharp point, well- 
defined edges, and deeply-notched base combining to render it secure 
in its attachment to the shaft, and effective as a weapon when discharged 
from a bow. 

Figure 03 represents the most perfect and beautiful arrow-head we 
hare as yet met with. Most admirably chipped from a mottled pink- 
and-yellow^ agate, it possesses every requisite for a most effective arrow- 
heading. Exactly two inches in length, it widens with great uni- 
formity from an acute point to near the base, where small wing-like 
barbs project, which are themselves very nearly of a size, and rounded 
at the ends ; a character not common among our barbed arrow-points. 
The notches are of equal depth and breadth, looking almost directly 
down. The base, or abbreviated stem, is chipped from each side to a dull 
edge. There are shallow but well-marked serrations down each side, 
more numerous and distinctly marked on one side than on the other. 

The amount of labor expended in producing such an arrow-head as 
that given in figure 03 can scarcely be estimated. As far as killing 
game is concerned, there is really no advantage in such an elaborately- 
worked flint. The plain, triangular point could be shot with equal pre- 
cision, and would i)rove as deadly in its effect. 

Figure 04 represents a third form, with a notched base. Like figure 02, 
this pattern is usually of jasper, and does not vary much in sizcj but is 
not so uniformly chipped as are the preceding shapes. We have gathered 
many of slate, identical in form and size with the one figured; but accu- 
racy of outline {i. e., uniformity of the two halves, perpendicularly divi- 
ded) and general elegance of finish were never secured in using the latter 
mineral. This specimen, also, has slightly-serrated edges, a not uncom- 
mon feature of many of the smaller specimens ; but these serrated speci- 
mens are usually broken, the explanation of which fact is afforded by care- 
ful examination of over three hundred examples. In comparison with 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 287 

tliesame type with smooth edges, we find tliat theyare invariably thinner. 
To secure the serrated edge, it was probably necessary to make them 
so; and, of course, these thiu specimens were more frequently broken in 
the manufacture, and more liable to injury in the daily i<se to which they 
were put, to say nothing of the two centuries of plowing and other 
exposures to which they have been subjected since the termination of 
the stone age in New Jersey. 

Figure G5 represents a beautiful form of large arrow-head, which we 
have thus far only been able to duplicate once. It is of a slaty stone, 
not smoothly chipped over the surface, remarkable for accuracy of 
outline, and is of unusual size. Another noticeable feature is the small 
size of the stem, or base, in comparison with the body of the speci- 
men. The surface is so weather-worn and soft, that the exact mineral- 
ogical nature of the material cannot be determined. Exclusive of the 
base, the specimen measures two inches in length by one inch and 
three-quarters in greatest width. We believe it to be an arrow, rather 
than a spear point, as the stem has never been very strong for so large 
a specimen, and there would be less strain upon it in its use as an arrow- 
head than as a spear-point ; in the latter case, the struggles of the ani- 
mal w'ould be likely to break it off while the shaft was being held in the 
grasp of the hunter. Moreover, weight is to be considered in the recog- 
nition of these doubtful specimens, and figure 05 is no heavier than 
many of the smaller jasper arrow-points. 

Figure GG is a form of notched-base arrow-head, more or less com- 
mon in all localities. In general appearance, it is much like figures 
62 and G4, but is peculiar in having a central notch in the stem. The 
object of this third notch is not clear. The specimen is chipped from a 
black, slat3" stone, is very thin, and the sides have been slightly ser- 
rated. These si)ccimeus are not very variable in size, but few having 
been found much larger, and but two or three smaller. Inasmuch as 
they are very noticeably serrated arrow-points, we give two illustrations 
of both the larger and smaller specimens. 

Figure G7 represents a tri-notched, stemmed arrow-head, perfect in 
detail, and particularly interesting from the deep, well-marked serrations 
that extend along the greater portion of the sides. The specimen meas- 
ures two and one-eighth inches in length from the bottom of the cen- 
tral notch to the point. It is chipped from a porous, yellowish jasper 
or agate ; the extreme i)oint being more dense and glassy than the body 
of the specimen. There is no doubt this specimen was used exclusively 
as an arrow-point. We have a few examples similar in size and charac- 
ter from New Jersey, but all somewhat broken. The one figured is 
from Indiana. 

Figure 68 represents a third example of triple-notched arrow-point; 
the barb on one side, however, being broken ofi". It is of yellow jasper, 
with deeply-serrated sides and an acute point. We have seldom seen 
an arrow-point better suited for killing birds and small mammals. With 



288 ETHNOLOGY. 

the impetus given to the arrow by the Indian bow, such a point as this 
would make a tearing wound that would bring down any of our New 
Jersey inland birds, the turkey-bazzard and wild turkey not excepted. 

Figure G9 represents a fourth and still smaller example of arrow- 
head, with the central notch at the base. Like the preceding, it is 
well outlined. Mounted on a slender reed, it also would, if discharged 
with force, unquestionably bring down a large bird or squirrel. 

Mr. Schoolcraft* says : " Boys were always furnished with small 
arrow-points, such as were expected to be spent against squirrels, or the 
lesser quadrupeds and birds. This was the second lesson in learning 
the art of hunting; the first consisted in using the blunt arrow, or 
Beeli icnli,] which was fired at a mark." 

A specimen such as figure 08 may be one of the boy-hunter's arrow- 
jjoints, but there is apparentlj' too much work upon figure 09 to have 
allowed the mere tyro to risk it at a passing animal. 

Figure 70 represents a beautifully-shaped arrow-point that ap- 
proaches figure 50 in outline, but has the ends of the slender barbs 
sharp; the barbs themselves are continuous with the line of the sides, 
and not outwardly curved as in figure 03. For delicacy of finish and 
general beauty of outline, this specimen is scarcely to be excelled. As 
will be noticed in the illustration, the base is broken off; but we are 
confident it was sufficiently prolonged to enable the very accurately- 
tiuishcd barbs to be effective. Whatever the skill of the arrow-maker, 
to produce this specimen was undoubtedly a tedious operation, and the 
prehistoric hunter equipped with arrows tipped with points such as this 
hardly wasted them upon small game. 

Figure 71 is a fine example of a triangular- bodied arrow-point, with 
a long, unnotched stem, and of a pattern not very abundant in New 
Jersey ; the examples seen are usually less perfect than this, being in 
outline more like the following illustration, (figure 73.) Figure 71 is of 
bluish-gray jasper, one inch and five-eighths long, the stem being just 
one-third of the total length. The specimen is thicker than arrow- 
points of this pattern usually are ; but the point is thin and still xavy 
sharp. 

Figure 72 represents a form of slate arrow-heads, very numerous and 
uniform in size. They are never very well finished except in outline. 
We recall our once coming across a site of an arrow-maker's hut in 
Hunterdon County, New Jersey, where the ground was covered with 
small fragments of a hard, slaty rock, and fragments more or less ap- 
proaching the perfect arrow-point, all of which were of this pattern. 
A resident of the neighborhood informed us that in blasting for the 
road-bed of the Delaware and Belvidere Railroad a large rock proved 
to have in it a cavity with its entrance below the surface of the ground, 

"Researches, «fec., North American ludiaus, pt. i, p. 77. 
t Algonquin. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 289 

■which was half filled with arrow^-poiuts, "very nearly if not quite the 
size of figure 72 and of that shape." 

Figure 73 represents a form of small arrow-point, very similar but less 
accurately finished than figure 71. This we suppose to be one of the 
"small arrow-points" intrusted to boys learning to shoot, ai) described 
by Mr. Schoolcraft. They occur in considerable numbers, and seem to 
be about as much scattered abroad as any of the numerous patterns. 
Were these small arrow-points used exclusively by boys, tliey should be 
most abundant about the former sites of villages ; but such localities do 
not appear to specially abound in them. 

Tigures 74 and 75 are further examples of the abundant form of 
stemmed arrow-points, without notches at the base. Figure 74 is 
■wrought out of a jasper pebble, is well made and accurately beveled from 
the center or middle line to the edges. During the course of an ordinary 
day's hunting for relics, this and the following class of specimens will be 
found the most abundant, except, perhaps, the triangular arrow-point, 
yet to be described. Specimens of this pattern and size are in a mod- 
erately good state of preservation, being pretty thick for the length, 
and fully capable to stand a hard blow against another stone, or the 
■weight of a horse's foot. Ordinarily, the extreme point is broken off. 

Figure 75 does not vary materially from tbe preceding. It is a little 
smaller and made of slate. The point has been chipped so as to be a 
cutting-edge of about one thirty-second of an inch in extent, and not a 
needle-like tip as is usual. In looking over a large series of arrow- 
points, we find very many that have such a rounded point, which might 
pass for broken-tipped specimens. In the resharpeuing of arrow-heads, 
we believe the rounded tip was usual instead of a fine point, as when 
the specimen was first chii)ped out. 

Figure 76 represents a fine example of flint-chipping, which we call 
an arrow-head, although in so doing we thereby probably contradict 
I)revious assertions with reference to hunting spears. Figure 70, how- 
ever, is thin, light, and more like an arrow in appearance than like the 
ordinary hunting-spears. It certainly is the maximum size of arrow- 
points, if indeed intended as such. The base and deeply-cut notches 
approach figures 03 and 07 in general appearance, and the specimen, as 
a whole, much resembles figure 05, altbougli the sides are here curved, 
instead of unusually straight, as in that specimen. 

In studying the forms of arrow-heads, we have not been disposed to 
make any distinction between those of war, and peace, or hunting ar- 
rows,* but if any arrow-head was specially reserved for use in war, that 
figured in 7G was most likely one. Buried its full length of two inches 
and one-half in the side or breast of a man, it would speedily prove fatal. 

Figure 77 represents an ordinary sized and shaped stemmed arrow- 
point, moderately well chipped from a hornstone fragment, and notice- 
able particularly for one feature, that of being brought to a semicircu- 

*Anc. Mod. Miss. Valley, p. 212. 
S. Mis. 115 19 



290 ETHNOLOGr. 

lar edge, continuous with tlie sides and of equal sharpness, instead of 
being pointed, as are the vast majority of arrow-points. The manner 
of flaking- adopted in the manufacture of this specimen fully indicates 
of itself that the rounded end was intentional and so fashioned from 
the first, and that the specimen was not originally pointed, and after- 
ward, instead of being repointed, chipped to an edge. Arrow-heads of 
this form, and of nearly every pattern, stemmed and without tangs, are 
occasionally met with, having the peculiarity of being rounded instead 
of pointed. Perhaps the majority of such rounded forms are those 
without stems, and certainly the rudest of them, and such as appear 
the oldest, are the triangular arrow-heads of slato and even softer min- 
erals, that are simply rounded ofl", or are like the present specimen, the 
stem being cut squarely ofi". 

Figure 78 represents a well-chipped jasperarrow-i)omt, having a well- 
notched stem, and bearing considerable general resemblance to the pre- 
ceding specimens of stemmed arrow-points. There is one peculiarity, 
however, about figure 78, which is worthy of attention. The end of the 
specimen is chipped off at almost right angles with the sides, and is 
sloped to a narrow, acute point at the middle, scarcely the sixteenth of 
an inch in length. This is not a mere accident or chance chipping, but 
a peculiarity frequently met with, and shown again in figure 85, which 
is an arrow-head of the triangular pattern. There was no doubt an 
object in view iu so chipping arrow-points, but our limited knowledge 
of the bow and arrow does not enable us to discern it. It might be 
thought, from a cursory glance, that this specimen was originally much 
longer, and, the point having been broken off, that it was chipped 
to its present shape; but the general a]ipearance of the specimen does not 
favor this view, and we cannot imagine an accidental fracture of such a 
character as to determine the present peculiarly-outlined pointing. Wo 
have found fully one hundred arrow-points of various patterns, which 
have had an extreme point, like this of figure 78 and figure 85. 

Figure 79 represents an example of what we have considered an 
arrow-head, notwithstanding its size. It has been frequently remarked 
that arrow-heads, wherever found and of whatever age, all have very 
much in common ; and if the labels of a collection from all quarters of 
the globe were lost, it would be a difficult matter to decide the locality 
from which au}' specimen was obtained, unless from the materials out of 
which they were fashioned. Another interesting feature is the similar- 
ity between arrow, spear, and harpoon poiuts of an age long i)ast and 
those now being used and made by the savages who are still more or less 
completely in the stone age. Bearing this iu mind, we call attention par- 
ticularly to the "harpoon-point" which w^e give in figure 79, which, iu all 
its important features, is identical with one figured by Professor jSTilsson,* 
and conceruing which he says: "The stone points (for harpoons) vary 
in shape; sometimes they are as in PI. iii. Figs. 45, 47. Such are like- 

* Stone Age iu Scandinavia, Eng. ed., iilate x, fig. 203, and page 28. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 291 

wise found in Scania. * * * The broad head seems to indicate that 
they have been harpoons rather than arrow-heads. * * * It appears 
to me certain that PI. x, Fig. 203, has been the stone point of an har- 
poon. * * * A person who had long resided in Greenland recog- 
nized it at once as such." Here we find a Xew Jersey, an ancient Scan- 
dinavian, and a Greenland specimen of the present day identical. 

We have already described in detail and figured a series of such fish- 
ingspears, or harpoon-points, as are characteristic of aSQW Jersej', and 
suitable for the river-fishing especially that was and is to be had in our 
rivers. Figure 79 is not as well adapted to fishing as are those we have 
figured in Chapter Ylll ; and we have, therefore, considered this specimen 
an arrow-point for the larger game, its size and weight not being too 
great to render it suitable as an arrow-head, especially where the dis- 
tance to be traveled is not great, as when large game was surprised and 
struck before it was many yards away. 

Figure 80 is a good example of one of the rough jasper arrow-heads 
that appear to have been hastily blocked out for an emergency, but 
which probably were meant for large game, as deer, at close quarters, 
and intended to make a torn rather than a cut wound, which would 
cause the animal to bleed to death if not killed instantly. The style of 
rough jasper arrow-head, of this size and smaller, is common. These 
larger examples approach in some characters the chipped jasper knives, 
to which we will call attention in another chapter. 

Figure 81 is a pretty white quartz form of the ordinary triangular 
arrow-point. There is nothing about the base to show how it was 
secured to the shaft of the arrow. Such quartz specimens are found in 
almost every nook and corner of the State. They vary considerably in 
the relative diuieusious of length to breadth. More quartz arrow-points 
of the stemmed pattern occur, however, than of these plain triangular 
specimens. White quartz was a favorite mineral, not only for arrow- 
points, but spear-heads and small hatchets. 

Figure 82 represents about the minimum size of plain equiangle 
specimens. It is chipped from a flake of dark chocolate-colored jasper, 
and is very pretty. In many of these smaller specimens, we find the 
base equally carefully chi})ped as the sides, and the three angles brought 
to such equally acute points that it is difficult to see which side, if any, 
was intended for the base. 

Figure 83 is another illustration of a triangular arrow-point, differing 
from the preceding in that the base is narrower than the sides are 
long, and is intentionally concave. This specimen is one of the hand- 
somest we have seen. Chipped from a pale-green jasper fragment, it is 
in perfect condition, and too pretty and carefully worked, it seems, to 
have been risked by slight insertion into the split end of an arrow- 
shaft. 

Figure 84 represents a form of the triangular arrow-point, that is 
broader than long, and possibly was never sharply pointed. Such an 



292 ETHNOLOGY. 

arrowhead as this must have been shot with tremendous force to render 
it effective. At best, it would but bruise or crush — it could not penetrate 
like a pointed arrow-head. 

Figure 85 represents a variation of the immediately i)receding form, 
is of slate, well cut, and but sparingly met with. The peculiarity con- 
sists in the manner in which the little point has been chipped. A single 
specimen of this style would excite no comment. The peculiarity would 
be considered as resulting from a chance blow of the arrow-maker. 
This is not the case, however, as we have a number of such specimens, 
from one locality, each, in size and mineral, the fac-simile of the others. 

Figure 8G is a pretty white quartz specimen, very smoothly chipped, 
and having very short but still distinct barbs, or projections of the 
angles of the base and sides. We have gathered numbers of this size, 
mineral, and peculiarity of base. They seem to have been rubbed after 
the chipping until the more prominent ridges were partially worn away. 
Occasionally rose quartz was used, forming gems among arrow-points. 

Figure 87 represents a beautiful pattern of triangular arrow-head, usu- 
ally of white quartz, met with in but one locality — near Crosswicks, 
Burlington County, New Jersey. They vary little in size, and are well 
made, having the edges sharp and the point slender and acute. Like 
the prccediug example, this specimen has the sides triflingly convex, 
the curved outline being more pronounced near the point than at the 
base. It measures seven-eighths of an inch in length and three-fourths 
of an inch in width at the base, which is slightly concave. Like figures 
09 and 73, which are both stemmed arrow-points, it would, we suppose, 
be classed by Mr. Schoolcraft as one intended for the boys ; but, like 
those represented in the tigures mentioned, it bears evidence of too much 
work to have been manufactured for so casual a purpose. As far as our 
experience extends in experimenting in mineral chipping, these small 
arrow-heads are much more difficult, both to " block out" and to finish, 
than are those of two inches or more in length, and we doubt not it proved 
so with the ancient arrow-maker. In numbers, the large arrow-points far 
exceed the small specimens, while, on the other hand, the great mnjority 
of the little ones are far more elaborately worked out than are the larger 
examples. Again, we have found very frequently that these small well- 
worked specimens were more numerous in graves of adults than were 
the larger types, a circumstance showing that they were not wholly 
used by boys. 

Figure 88 represents a handsome form of triangular arrow-head. It has 
the appearance at first glance of having been barbed ; but the carefully- 
chipped sides of the base induce the belief that it is in its original con- 
dition. With a shaft much narrower than the base of the specimen, 
this would be one of the most effective arrow-points wo hav^e figured. 
This pattern is usually of jasper, and is not abundant. 

Figruc 89 is a beautiful representative of a class of large triangular 
arrow-heads with concave base. They are mostly found of black slaty 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 293 

stone, and are well pointed. The specimen figured is chipped from a flake 
of yellow jasper, Laving narrow veins of white quartz, which render it 
very attractive in appearance. It is about the maximum size of this pat- 
tern of arrow -point. 

Figures 90 and 91 represent two beautiful examples of a form of 
arrow-head closely allied to the preceding specimen ; the difference being 
in the concave sides and base, and in being much more slender. Indeed, 
were not the body longer than the barbs, being equal in width, it would 
be difficult to decide which of the three ends was intended as the point. 
There is no difference in these "ends" as to workmanship or outline; 
they are equally slender and acute. 

Figure 90 is chipped from black hornstone, the base or junction of the 
barbs and body of the specimen being thickest, from which point the 
specimen gradually tapers to a thin, very carefully-worked edge. This 
arrow-head measures one inch and one-fourth in length hy exactly one 
inch in width from point to point of the barbs. 

Figure 91 is chipped from a dull-yellow jasper flake, and is similar to 
the preceding one in size and the details of working, but is less symmet- 
rical ; the barbs varying somewhat in width, and the body being a little 
" bent " over to one side. 

Such a shaped arrow-point attached to a shaft would make an ugly 
wound, and, entering the body of the animal or person shot, would very 
probably remain in the wound ; for a more difficult object to extract from 
a deep flesh-wound we could not imagine. 

Figure 92 is a small jasper arrow-head, with a peculiarity the opposite 
of that of the preceding illustration. The base is convex instead of 
concave. It is well chipped, finely pointed, and has notches near the 
base to secure it the more firmly to the shaft of the arrow. It is not 
an abundant variety, but one found in sufficient numbers to show it is 
not a chance-shaped specimen. 

Figure 93 represents a pattern of arrow-point very abundant, and 
varying from the preceding in that the base is prolonged into a stem, 
and has no traces of notches, as in figure 92. This elongated base ren- 
ders the specimen diamond-shaped. It is known in England as the 
lozenge-shaped arrow-head. As a rule, it is more slender, and has more 
of the appearance of a stemmed arrow-point than has the English 
lozenge-shaped one. We have seen some, however, from other States, 
which were identical with the European tyjie. 

Figure 93 is made of a sandstone pebble or fragment of rock, and 
Las been moderately well chipped. The point is still acute, and the 
edges well defined and sharp. It measures one inch and five-eightlis in 
length and a little more than five-eighths of an inch in greatest width. 
The base has never been as shari^ly pointed as the true point or extrem- 
itj- of the specimen, but the sides are as well tapered to a cutting-edge. 

This pattern of arrow-i)oint, of this size and mineral, are quite abun- 
dant in some localities, and seem to be a prevailing type, but, in other 



294 ETHNOLOGY. 

sections, are very rarely met with. About Trenton, K. J., they occur 
comparatively seldom ; but about the Delaware Water Gap, and in Sus- 
sex County generally, they are numerous. 

Figure 94 represents a well-chipped, lozenge-shaped arrow-point, of 
black jasper or hornstone. It varies but little from the preceding except 
in size, being two inches and one-quarter in length and only three- 
quarters of an inch in width at the widest point. The base is more ab- 
ruptly tapered than the body of the specimen, and but one-third the 
length, giving the specimen a "stemmed" appearance. It constitutes 
a good link between the lozenge-shaped and stemmed arrow-points. The 
extreme point and termination of the base have been broken off, but 
that they were originally both pointed and slender cannot be doubted. 

Such a pattern of arrow-point was probably merely inserted into a 
cleft in the end of the shaft, and was left in the wound when the arrow 
was withdrawn. It could, of course, be recovered easily from the dead 
animal. 

Figure 95 represents a beautiful example of the lozenge-shaped arrow- 
point, that is wmr/?/ a "stemmed"' specimen. The angles of the base 
and body of the specimen are so chipped as to make barbs of these an- 
gles, or, more properly speaking, barb-like angles ; otherwise, the speci- 
men is diamond-shaped in outline, and a true lozenge-shaped example. 
As a weapon, this form is an excellent pattern ; the point and sides being 
well adapted to piercing and cutting, while the base is of a shape to 
make attachment to the shaft very easy and secure. 

Figure 90 represents an elongate, lozenge-shaped arrow-point, admir- 
ably chipped and very symmetrical. It is of a variety of this pattern 
that we have found as yet but very few specimens. It measures two 
inches and one-half in length and three-fourths of an inch in greatest 
width. IS^otwithstanding its length, we cannot doubt that it was used 
as an arrow-point, and it is, therefore, an excellent specimen to show 
that arrow-heads were occasionally made of a length equal, or nearly so, 
to the average specimen of slender fish-spear. We call this an arrow- 
head rather than a spear or javelin point, because the means of attach- 
ing it securely to its shaft are too imperfect for utilizing it otherwise 
where the cleft in the shaft of the arrow is all that is required to hold 
the point when being shot. We have seen several specimens similar in 
size to the one figured, but with the base rounded instead of pointed in 
the middle, thus making the true lozenge-shape a leaf-shaped arrow- 
point, although more slender than these usually are. 

Figure 97 is a pretty quartz arrow-point of the lozenge-shape and leaf- 
shaped patterns combined. Such arrow-heads of white quartz are very 
abundant, and vary but little in size. This specimen measures one inch 
and five-eighths in length by seven-eighths of an inch in width. It is 
somewhat thicker than the majority of jasper specimens of its pattern, 
but has a very acute point and sharp cutting-edges. 
. Every collection of arrow-heads wiU show many variations of every 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 295 

so-called type of these relics, but no one pattern seems to vary more 
than the one we have termed lozenge-shape. We notice, however, 
that, as a class, they are made of the harder minerals, and are small ; they 
have no abundant representatives rudely- chipped in slate and other more 
easily-worked minerals. This pattern is not as abutidantly represented 
throughout the State as the true leaf-shaped type, and it has occurred 
to us that probably very many of our lozenge-shai)ed specimens were 
blocked out for leaf-shaped ones, but being found too brittle, or badly 
broken at the start, they were finished as angular at the base instead of 
possessing that beautifully-curved base which makes the true leaf-shaped 
pattern so attractive to collectors. 

Figure 98 is a rare form of arrow-point as far as our experience goes 
in collecting them in New Jersey. It is a well-chipped jasper specimen 
of five instead of three angles. It is a shape apparently well adapted 
to its purpose, but still possesses no advantage over the plain triangle 
and its variations that we have been describing. There is but one other 
specimen in our cabinet of this shape. 

Figure 99 represents a second example of qnintangular arrow-head. 
It is chipped from green jasper, is smoothly worked, and evenly beveled 
from the middle to the edges. The sides are all sharply chipped, and 
the point has been acute. This form is not at all common, although we 
have met with more examples of it than of the preceding shorter and 
broader form. The narrow base is very sharp, and was probably 
inserted into a slit at the end of the shaft, and held by wrapping with 
sinew. This would secure it a firm hold, and, being so slender and sharp, 
it would penetrate deeply, if discharged with ordinary force. 

Figure 100 is an average specimen of the white-quartz arrow-points of 
the leaf-pattern. They are very common, both of quartz and slate, but 
not as numerous as those of jasper, which latter mineral usually api)ears 
in the shape of stemmed or plain triangular arrow-points. There 
appears to be no advantage in the leaf- shaped pattern, and yet it was 
chosen by the arrow-maker very frequently. We have seen some " work- 
shop sites " where it appeared to be a favorite pattern, just as the " site" 
in Hunterdon County was characterized by the stemmed arrow-point 
form. Although, as we have seen, spear- heads were sometimes leaf- 
shaped, the true arrow-points are not very variable in size, few being 
larger than figure 100. 

Figure 101. represents a more symmetrical and better-finished speci- 
men of leaf-shaped arrow point than the preceding. It is decidedly the 
best-finished and most acutely-pointed specimen of arrow-head we have 
as yet met with. There is not a single flaw or fault in the specimen 
anywhere. 

Figure 102 represents a third form of the leaf-shaped pattern, varying 
from the two preceding it in being shorter and broader. It resembles 
figure 101 pushed together; or, reversing the simile, 101 is 102 drau-ii out. 



296 ETHNOLOGY. 

This shorter and broader form is more abundantly met with than the 
longer and more slender specimens. 

Leaf-shaped arrow-points are occasionally much wider than the pre- 
ceding specimen, and, of course, also longer. Figure 103 represents a 
large jasper arrow-point of this pattern, which is not, however, as 
smoothly chipped as either of the preceding nor as regularly oval in its 
outlines. It may be, however, an unfinished specimen. 

Leaf-shaped arrow-points of this pattern of the softer minerals, as 
slate, are not common, although the lance-head, of slate, is only an 
exaggerated arrow-head of this pattern. 

Figure 104 represents a fine pale-yellow jasper form of arrow-point, 
found scantily in New Jersey, but more abundantly in the Western 
States. It is noticeable, particularly, that the edges are at an angle 
with the point, giving it a twist, which gradually disappears as the 
edges reach the barbs. This peculiarity is even more marked in some 
specimens that we have seen, but which unfortunately were broken. 
Messrs. Squier and Davis, in their brief notice of arrow-heads,* say, 
" Some are so chipped that the line of their edges forms a large angle 
with their planes, as if to give them a revolving or tearing motion." This 
twisted condition of the edges in figure 104 is sufficient to produce this 
motion, as we have tested. Of course, the feathering at the base of the 
shaft can be so arranged as to help tliis revolving motion, and it prob- 
ably was so fixed by the Indian. Whether or not this " tearing " mo- 
tion would make a more fatal wound or not is a question ; for certainly 
the arrow-point itself would not penetrate as deeply. 

Of the specimens of this pattern found in New Jersey, all have been 
smaller, but otherwise were as well-marked twisted arrow-points. The 
specimen figured was picked up in a field in Indiana, and is illustrated 
in preference to a New Jersey example only because it is in perfect 
condition. 

Figure 105 represents a peculiar form of arrow-point, the shark-tooth 
pattern. This specimen is not a chance chipping or the mere whim of 
the arrow-maker, but is a copy in stone of a recent shark's tooth, such 
as was not unfrequeutly used by the Indians along the sea-shore. We 
have also met with fossil shark-teeth in graves, that when buried were 
probably attached, as arrow-heads, to shafts. Figure 105 is carefully 
chipped from a flake of black hornstone, is sharply edged, and has an 
acutely-chipped point. The base is somewhat thicker, but is well chipped 
also ; one side, or barb, being more slender and pointed than the other. 
We have seen more than twenty of these arrow-points all agreeing with 
the one figured in every important feature. 

Figure lOG represents a quadrangular stemmed arrow-x^oint, that is 
unique, so far as our experience extends. If we take the little projec- 
tion as a stem, we find the sharp point to be directly opposite, and held 
or viewed in this position (as figured) the specimen appears as a stemmed 

" Auc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 212. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 297 

triangular arrow-point, with a broad wing-like i^rojection upon one 
side. It is not an unfinished specimen. The " wing" is finely and 
evenly chipped, with its edges as sharp as are any other of the edges of 
the specimen. What object there may have been in such a shaped 
arrow-point, we cannot imagine. 

Figure 107 represents a very pretty form of arrow-point, with which 
■we will conclude this portion of our subject. It is carefully chipped 
from yellowish-brown jasper, and is noticeable particularly for the ex- 
aggerated barb, which is considerably larger than the main body of the 
specimen. An examination of the reverse side of the base of this 
arrow-point shows that there has never been a second barb, but that the 
specimen is now as originally chipped. The barb, once beneath the skin 
of an animal, would be difficult to extract, and would make an ugly 
wound ; but how such an arrow-head was attached to the shaft is not 
clear. 

Before concluding this subject of arrow-heads, we would call atten- 
tion to certain large stones found on known sites of Indian villages, 
which are called " anvils " for want of a more correct designation. Dr. 
T. S. Stevens, of Trenton, N. J., to whom we are indebted for many 
favors, has called our attention to one such " anvil." The stone in 
question is about twenty inches in height, has an hour-glass contrac- 
tion at the middle, and has a level circular surface at either end of 
about nine inches in diameter. Where contracted at the middle, it 
measures about five or six inches in diameter. Sitting on the ground, 
and ]>lacing it before us between the legs, we found the present shape of 
the stone to be admirably adapted as an anvil, or " bench." Thus 
postured, one could easily imagine himself a prehistoric arrow-maker, 
resting one surface of a blade of jasper upon the upper face of the an- 
vil, and striking off the flakes, that a subsequent laborious chipping 
would transform into such delicate arrow-heads as many we have figured. 
Whether such an anvil as this was shaped from a globular bowlder or 
not is a difficult question to decide ; but, judging from the mineralogi- 
cal character of the implement, we think that it originally bore some 
resemblance to its present shape, and was afterward chipped to per- 
fect the uniformity of its hour-glass contraction. I\Ir. Schoolcraft has 
described the method of arrow-head making without the aid of an an- 
vil, and it may be that the stone we have described was not used in 
resting the block upon it when broken in flakes, but as a bench for the 
later chipping, or in finishing arrow and spear points. 

There is nothing that adds so much to the interest of arrow-heads, 
and indeed to that of the other stone implements of a country, as the 
results of their comparison with stone implements of other and distant 
iwrtions of the globe. Mr. Evans's interesting volume on the stone im- 
plements of Great Britain gives us an excellent opportunity to make 
such comparisons with the English specimens, the work being profusely 
and admirably illustrated. This comparison is made at the conclusion 



298 ETHNOLOGY. 

of the chapter, aud is, of itself, more instructive and interesting than 
any comments can be as to the weapons themselves, unassociated with 
the thought of their cosmopolitan character. As will be noticed, we 
Lave drawn entirely from Lubbock and Nilsson for examples of identical 
forms of European and American stone implements in the preceding 
pages of this chai)ter. We have read with jiarticular interest Mr. Evans's 
exhaustive chapter upon arrow-heads, aud are surprised to find that 
nearly everything that he figures under that head occurs in New Jer- 
sey, while we believe some of the forms given by us are not known to 
British archceologists. 

We must, however, be allowed to express our dissent from some of Mr. 
Evans's statements concerning North American arrow-heads. He re- 
marks,* "A prevailing type in North America, viz, that with a notch at 
the base on either side, has already been mentioned more than once. This 
form shades off into that with a central dove-tailed tang, sometimes with 
well-developed barbs. Others, again, have merely a central tang, with 
little or no attempt at barbs. The triangular form, usually but little exca- 
vated at the base, is also common. A rare form terminatesin a semicircular 
edge. The leaf-shaijed form is very rare. For the most part, the chipping 
is but rough, as the material, which is usually chert, hornstone, or even 
quartz, does not readily lend itself to fine work." With very much of this 
paragraph we do not agree. For instance, the arrow-point " with a notch 
at the base on either side," although prevailing throughout North Ameri- 
ca, is not more abundantly met with than many other totally distinct 
patterns. A large series of the triangular arrow-points show a fair pro- 
I)ortiou of those that have a deejjly concave base ; and some that have a 
convex base, passing thereby into the leaf-shaped pattern. Mr. Evans 
most unquestionably errs in stating that the leaf-shaped form is very rare. 
It is certainly abundant enough in New Jersey to satisfy any collector ; 
and we believe the same can be said of every other of our Eastern 
States. We have given four examples of the leaf-shaped form, and 
could have added many more had it been necessary to give further 
illustrations of a form that necessarily can vary but little. 

Further, we think Mr. Evans errs in asserting that " for the most part 
the chipping is rough." We do not fear comparison of our New Jersey 
specimens with similar stone implements from any part of the world ; 
and especially are our quartz arrow-points as a class well finished, and 
this mineral is particularized by Mr. Evans as one reason why North 
American arrow-points are rough. 

So far 'ds illustrations of European and those of other countries enable 
us to determine, we have found within a radius of five miles of Trenton, 
N. J., every form of arrow-point that has been discovered and described 
by foreign archa3ologists ; and we have in this chapter figured two or 
more patterns that European archjeologists have not yet collected ; and 

" Loc. cit., l^. 3CiJ. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 299 

the same remarks will apply to the subject of the general finish of speci- 
mens. 

Several of the specimens figured by Mr. Evans are identical with the 
Luuting-spears and harpoon points described in Chapters VII and VIII; 
and these two forms, that appear to us to have had distinct nses, are 
called by Mr. Evans "javelin-points." There is some advantage in 
studying these various forms of stone implements here in New Jersey, 
since they were in use down to historical times, and the writings of the 
travelers who visited this country nearly two centuries ago throw con- 
siderable light upon the manner of their manufacture and use. If, there- 
fore, the same implements the world overbad the 8ameuse,then thoseuow 
found in America, which were the latest made and used, should decide the 
names and purposes of all, wherever found. A careful survey of a very large 
series of arrow-heads, all gathered from one limited locality, has con- 
vinced us that when the bow was first brought into use in this neigh- 
borhood, the art of arrow-point making was unknown, or in its earliest 
infancy, and that the first "Hint" heads to the arrows were butthin flakes 
of slate, and possibly of jasper, that were the necessary result of shaping 
out the rude hatchets that primitive man mainly depended upon as a 
tool and weapon, for food and defense. Our reason for thus believing is 
that, as a rule, the rudest, least symmetrical arrow-heads are those which 
show the greatest degree of " weathering," or surface-decomposition. 
Very many of these rude arrow-points are now of the consistency, or 
thereabouts, of chalk, except in the middle, where the mineral is hard, 
black, and flint-like. Some of these specimens have lost nearly all 
trace of their original sbape, but, being softened down uniformhj, by 
scraping ofl' the chalky surface, we reproduce on a smaller scale the 
original outline of the arrow-head. It can be set down as a rule that 
" rotten" arrow-points are rude, and undecomposed jasper specimens 
are elaborate. "Will it be said that the jasper is simply not decomi)os- 
able? If so, why were not those of softer stone, being so much more 
easily v.orked, made into the fantastic shapes that we find produced in 
jasper ? The '• soft" minerals will admit of it. 

We have no knowledge of the origin of the bow and arrow ; but wo 
believe it to have originated here, and many years subsequently to the 
first a})pearance of those rude implements we have described in the sec- 
ond chapter of this work. As rt originated here, so did it elsewhere 
come into use ; the same surroundings produced the same result, but it 
is useless now to speculate on the manner and time. 



300 ETHNOLOGY. 

Chapter X. 

KNIVES. 

The site of a former Indian village, of which there are many in New 
Jersey, may be recognized as the spot of a once busy community, by the 
"mixed" condition of the relics there found. While lately searching 
through such a heap of broken tools and weapons, a carefully-chipped 
flint (Fig. 108) of oval outline, sharply edged at every portion of the 
circumference, was found. Although not a novelty, it was better finished 
than others found singly in the fields. 

It measures three and one-quarter inches in length, and one inch and 
seven-eighths in its greatest breadth. One side is straighter and much 
more finely chipped than the other, and has a sharper edge. The coarser- 
chipped side evidently was not intended for any use. A glance at this 
implement shows that, with a handle at the had', or coarsely-chipped sj<?c, 
it would be a beautiful " scraper." The typical scrapers having a totally 
different form, however, the proper designation for figure 108 would 
probably be a knife. 

Figure 109 is a second example of a chipped-jasper knife, not as finely 
finished as figure 108, but evidently identical in character. Sucb a speci- 
men might at first seem to be simply a rudely blocked-out arrow-head, 
which was subsequently thrown aside, but as the like are found singly, 
scattered over a large portion of the State, and are not very similar to 
the rejected specimens so abundant where an arrow-maker has worked, 
it cannot be doubted that they are finished specimens. 

Figure 110 is a third example of these knives, and varies but little 
from the others, except in being somewhat thicker, and having the two 
sides more uniform than usual. 

To what cutting purpose such knives were put is a pertinent ques- 
tion, but one to which my only reply is that I do not know. I have 
experimented with them to some extent and find that with patience they 
will cut a green twig, and even flesh. 

Considering savage dexterity with flint, figure 108 appears fitted for 
use as a scalpiug-knife, though we have never met with any flint imple- 
ment which archaeologists have classed as knives used for this particular 
purpose. 

Figures 109 and 110 may be looked upon as quite serviceable knives 
when we consider the skill evinced b^^ savages in using flint tools. 
Sir John Lubbock states,* quoting Mr. Galton, that the dexterity 
with which the savages of Southern Africa butcher and cut up 
large beasts with the poorest knives is really extraordinary. The 
Dammaras had usually nothing but bits of flattened iron lashed to 
handles, or the edges of their flat spears. Yet with these imperfect im- 



*Prehist. Times, 2(1 cd., j). 536. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 301 

ploments they would cut up giraffes and liiiuoceroses, on wliich, even 
witli excellent knives of European manufacture, Mr. Galton had much 
diflQculty in making any impresi^ion. Other savage tribes readily cut 
flesh with pieces of shell or of hard wood. After all, some of these jasper 
knives are not mean tools ; and, guided by the same skill, we doubt not 
flesh and hide would yield as readily- to the specimens we have figured 
as to the " bits of flattened iron" just referred to. 

Figures 111 and 112 represent examples of long, narrow, and finely- 
edged implements, which we have called knives. Such specimens, which 
are always broken squarely off at one end, are very aljundant in some lo- 
calities. We have experimented somewhat with them, and are of theoi^iu- 
ion that they were used as " fish-knives," being very well adapted to scal- 
ing fish ; moreover they have been found most abundant on the shores 
of the larger creeks and on the river-banks. They are usually smooth, 
or comparatively so, on one side, and roughly chipped and ridged upon 
the other. Both sides are brought to a cutting edge, and the square end 
is also chipped to an edge. Those we have found have generally been 
of slate and minerals of like character. There are a few, however, of 
jasper, but they do not vary in any important particular from the two 
examples figured, which are of slate. 

JMr. Evans has figured two specimens of " flint" knives from Scotland, 
which bfar a marked resemblance to those here given.* The Scottish 
ones are usually worked upon both faces, and have but a single edge 
sharpened by grinding. Figures 111 and 112 differ from this descrip- 
tion, in having two equally well defined edges, "chipped" and not sub- 
sequent!}' ground. The " bases" of the specimens figured by Mr. Ev- 
ans seem to be " worked," while ours are broken. As all the specimens 
of this style of knife have been similarly broken, we are inclined to 
think it intentional rather than accidental. Again, a careful examination 
of this broken end shows that it has undergone much weathering, and 
must have been broken very long ago, if not, indeed, when the knife 
was manufactured. This form of knife-blade seems to be rare in Great 
Britain, but with us it is fully as abundant as are the more elaborately 
chipped jasper specimens, such as figures 10<S, 109, and 110. 

Figure 113 represents a small (;hipi)ed fragment of hornstone, in itself 
a completed implement, but of exactly what kind, it is difficult to de- 
termine. It combines the arrow-point, knife, and the " semi-lunar flake" 
which was used as a knife in Scandinavia. Of this form, also, Mr. Ev- 
anst has given an illustration very similar to ours in all respects. The 
English specimen, however, is one-fourth longer. Mr. Evans calls 
such specimens " trimmed flakes," which describes precisely what the 
specimens are ; but as their use was " to cut," we see no objection to class- 
ing them as "knives," especially as the so-called "trimmed flakes" and 
the " knives " blend so gradually that no line of demarcation can be 
drawn between them. Although much ruder and smaller, figure 113 

* Anc. Stono Imp. Great Brit., p. 303. 
t Evans, 1. c, p. 204, fig. 236. 



302 ETHNOLOGY. 

bears considerable resemblance to certain " semi-lunar knives" figured by 
Nilsson.* These Scandinavian forms are, however, usually of a toothed 
or serrated edge, and are more decidedly curved than is the case with 
figure 113. Although such specimens have not yet occurred, we doubt 
not we shall be able to fiud knives of the true semi-lunar pattern before 
the supply of specimens is exhausted in the localities which have 
yielded so bountiful a series of stone implements of the various types. 

The chipped-jasper knives, figures 108-110, vary materially from 
"flints" that have been designated "knives" by Professor Nilsson and 
Sir John Lubbock ; still we think they are true knives. One consider- 
ation to be borne in mind is, that there was scarcely a single instrument 
which was confined to a single purpose ; and, as the modern pocket-knife 
is frequently a combination of tools, so the chipped-jaspers had a multi- 
plicity of uses. The edge being the prominent characteristic of the 
specimens, cutting must have been the principal design in the making; 
therefore, figures 108, 109, 110, are called "knives." 

Commenting on a collection of Indian stone implements forwarded to 
him by the writer, from this neighborhood, (Trenton, N. J.,) Sir John 
Lubbock remarks: "The absence of flakes and true scrapers surprises 
me. How do you account for it? Is there no flint in the neighbor- 
hood?" There is no flint in the neighborhood, and as jasper, slate, and 
sandstone do not flake off as readily and conveniently as flint i^roper, 
so we do not have in that abundance characteristic of European " finds," 
true "flakes" and "scrapers," such as may have been fashioned by 
almost a single blow; and so, too, our knives, if those implements which 
we have here figured are such, have not a smooth edge as is produced 
by a single plane of cleavage ; nevertheless, they would surely be effect- 
ive for most of the purposes to which a knife of "flint" could be used. 
As we have noticed, both sides have the surface equally chij)ped. !N"one 
that we have seen are identical with the semi lunar knife found in 
Sweden, figured by Professor !Nilsson,t but some few approach a shape 
that might be termed semi-hinar. Occasionally a specimen is met with 
that is concave on one side and convex on the other. In such instance 
the outer, or convex, side has the cutting edge. 

Sir John Lubbock has figured^ an Esquimaux knife, that we can cer- 
tainly duplicate without dilliculty, excepting the handle. Comparison of 
figure 113a with that given by Sir John Lubbock, as quoted below, 
will at once indicate the similarity, if not identity, of form. Many of 
the more elongated leaf-shaped arrows which had lost their points, might 
have been thus used, by placing the broken end in a bone handle, and 
so converting the base and sides into the edges of a (double-edged) 
knife-blade; but, besides these, we have occasionally met witli chipped 
jaspers which were identical with Mr. Lubbock's figure above referred to. 
Instead of being as thin and as nearly flat as an arrow-point, they had a 

" Stone Age, Eng. ed., pi. v, figs. 87, 88, «9. 
t Stone Ago, pi. v., fig. 80, Eng. ed. 
t Prehist. Times, p. 490, fig. 214. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 303 

•well defined middle ridge down one side, and were flat upon the olher, 
thus presenting, in section, a triangular outline, wliicli would increase 
the strength very much over an ordinary arrow-head. 

Messrs. Squier and Davis* assert that "knives of flint and obsidian 
have been taken from several of the mounds;" and one figured is nearly 
(in shape) identical with an accompanying one from a Scandinavian 
barrow. We have not met with any of this pattern in ISTew Jersey, which 
are, according to Squier and Davis, "not less than six inches in length 
{i. €., some of them) and three-fourths of an inch in breadth ; others are 
not more than two inches long, and of exceeding delicacy. Besides 
these, and constituting a much larger class, are found cutting-imple- 
ments chipped with great neatness, so as to produce as clear and sm^^oth 
a cutting-edge as practicable." These latter, in being "chipped," ap- 
Ijroach our New Jersey specimens, and we doubt not the other pattern, 
if it does not note exist in some of the large private collections in the 
State, will yet be found. Obsidian, in the shape of arrow-points, but 
always broken, has been picked up in New Jersey. 

Chapter XI. 

SKINNIKGKNIVES. 

When it is remembered that the primitive people whose stone imple- 
ments we have been describing were ijerhaps wholly dependent upon 
the skins of the animals captured in the chase, not only for clothing but 
for shelter, it is not strange that much care was exercised in fasliioning 
and finishing implements for detaching the skin from the carcass and 
for its subsequent preparation for domestic use. We are prepared, 
therefore, to find in skinning knives and in scrapers, to be separately con- 
sidered, stone tools that have been elaborately worked out from the 
most desirable minerals. 

Wherever there is unquestionably the site of a village or town of the 
aborigines, there will we find specimens, sometimes many, of carefully- 
polished stone implements, leaving a well-defined cutting-edge; these 
we have called skinning-knives ; a designation embracing tlie whole 
ground of use to which they were put by the race of men who made 
them. 

Figure 114 represents a very fine example of skinning-knife plowed up 
in a field bordering the CrosswicksCreck, Burlington County, New Jersey. 
This polished implement is made from a large pebble of yellowish sand 
stone, of such finegrained consistency as to bo capable of the high pol- 
ish which is still to be seen in one or two places on the specimen in 
question. This skinning-knite measures six inches in length at the 
thick back, but the 1)lade, or cutting-edge, starting at an acute angle 
with the ridge-like back, makes a gentle, perfect curve, which, at the mid- 
dle of the specimen, is but one inch and a half distant from the lower 

"Aug. Moil. Miss. Valley, [>. 215, fig-. 105 — (No. 2.) 



304 ETHNOLOGY. 

margin of the back. The back itself is but seven-sixteentbs of an inch, 
in thickness, and tapers to a blunt point at the ends. The blade is 
only one-fourth of an inch thick where it joins the back, and from thence 
tapers to a very fine and really sharp edge. The edge is uniformly 
sharp throughout its whole extent. Taken as a whole, it is the best 
example of a skinning-knife we have met with, and its shape indicates 
its use as unquestionably as does the most symmetrical arrow-point sug- 
gest the use of the bow. 

Although centuries have elapsed since its last use, it is still available 
for separating animal skins from the carcass, and comparatively little 
was gained in substituting for it a metallic knife. It is the only speci- 
men of this pattern we have found ; not even fragments referable 
to this form have been gathered among the thousands of relics found in 
the same neighborhood. 

Squier and Davis figure* a cutting-instrument somewhat like the pre- 
ceding in general appearance, and remark : " A variety is occasionally 
found in the Eastern States, of which figure 170 is an example. They 
are sometimes composed of slate, and are of various sizes, often meas- 
uring five or six inches in length. They are very well adapted for flay- 
ing animals and for other analogous purposes." 

Figure 115 is a remarkably pretty example of a skinning-knife of 
totally difi'ereut shape and character, being a long, slender stone, edged 
at one end, instead of on the margin of one of its longer sides. The 
illustration will convey a better idea of the specimen itself than can any 
description. The specimen is a hornstone pebble, beautifully polished 
over the greater portion of its surface. One end is blunt, as though 
abruptly broken off, but is now equally well polished with any of the 
other parts. From this blunt end, the width of the specimen gradually 
increases, with about a correapondingdecrease in thebreadth or thickness 
for the distance of an inch, when the width decreases by a beautiful curve 
more marked upon the upper margin, which margin becomes the edge 
at the descent of the curve, continuing vso until it joins the straighter 
portion of the lower outline of the specimen. The blade, or edged end 
of the knife, is slightly bent, or, at least, has that appearance, from the 
edge not being in a line with the middle of the thickest portion of the 
implement. If the specimen is held with the straighter side {lower side^ 
in our description) up, then the blade is bent to the right and has just 
the proper " twist" to most readily sei)arate the skin from the muscles. 
On experimenting with this knife, in skinning a lamb, we found that when 
once an incision was made in the skin, the detaching, by breaking 
away the thin connective tissue, was easily done, but that the edge was 
not sufliciently sharp to cut a tendon or the skin itself. When used in 
deer-skinning, by the Indians, no doubt the flint-knife was brought into 
play in incising, as, in our experiments with this knife, we found that 

• Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 215, fig. 107. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 305 

the iuiplemont figured iu 108 would cut tbe tendons of a lamb, and aK-.o 
the skin, but not with as clean an incision as was desirable. 

Figure IIG representsa comparatively common style of skinning knile, 
made from a piece of serpentine, pecked to a blunt point at the back, 
and from about the middle of the implement to the ed^i^e is very smoothly 
polished. The specimen measures a little less than three inches in length, 
and two inches in Avidth along the cutting-edge, and is a very good aver- 
age specimen of this class of implements. It approaches in general 
character the cylindrical hand axes with pointed butt, but is considerably 
flatter and somewhat broader. It docs not appear as well ada[)ted to 
skinning as does either of the preceeding examples. 

Figures 117 and 118 represent two more skinning-knives, one from 
New Jersey, figure 118, and the other from Indiana, figure 117. 

Figure 117 is a better specimen than the other, inasmuch as it is 
thinner, and originally had a better edge. It is of very compact stone, 
similar to serpentine, but not exactly like this mineral as found in New 
Jersey. Figure 118 is also of a very comi^act mineral, approaching 
porphyry, but very heavy, as though largely charged with iron. It has 
been carefully polished over its whole surface, to accomplish which, 
considering the mineralogical character of the specimen, must have cost 
much labor. The specimen measures just three inches in length by one 
inch and three-quarters in width, along the cutting-edge. As figure IIG 
approaches the cylindrical, pointed hand-axes, so does this specimen 
come near the square-ended, nngrooved axes, of which figures have 
been given. Such skinning-knives as these appear to be common over 
the whole territory of the United States. We have seen them from 
nearly every State in the Union. Messrs. Squier and Davis* give illus- 
trations of two such specimens, differing only in mineral, and remark: 
"There is another variety (besides knives proper) of cutting instrument, 
which it may not be out of place to notice here. These consist of hard, 
compact minerals, worked into a chisel-shape. Some have a very sharp, 
smooth edge, and form quite a good substitute for metal. Engravings 
of two, of full size, {both are much smaller than our si)ecimeus of a 
similar shape, i. c, figures 117 and 11 8,) are herewith i)resented. They are 
formed of very compact nodules of brown hematite, which have been 
ground into form and polished with great labor. They have a sub- 
metallic luster, and very nearly the specific gravity of iron. A file pro- 
duces a scarcely perceptible impression upon their rounded surfiices." 
We have, as yet, not collected any specimens of these skinning-knives or 
other implements made from nodules of known henmtite, although this 
mineral is abundant in the northern portion of New Jersey, but proba- 
bly there are specimens iu collections made in that section of the State, 
not only of knives, but of grooved axes, and other of the larger imple- 
ments of stone. Figure 119 is a rude skinningknife, ground down from 
a globular jiorphyry pebble, and, considering its thickness at the com- 

* Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 215, fig. lOG. 
S. Mis. 115 20 



306 ETHNOLOGY. 

mencement of the polished surfaces, one inch and three- eighths, the 
labor upon it must have been enormous. We have, elsewhere,* called 
this specimen an ax, but on comparing it with a large series of un- 
doubted skinning-knives, we are induced to place it with them ; and, 
indeed, it may be that two other of the smaller ungrooved axes, which 
we have figured, should really be included in this chapter rather than 
under their present heading; but nowhere in the range of stone imple- 
ments is it harder to draw the dividing-line satisfactorily than between 
axes proper and true skinning-knives. 

Figure 120 represents the smaller-sized skinning-knivesfound through- 
out the length and breadth of the land. Usually, those found in New 
Jersey are ground into form from a hornstone or porphyry pebble, and 
polished. The specimen in the figure has been pecked into shape from 
a fragment of serpentine, and subsequently highly polished on the sides. 
The cutting-edge is very good. It is very nearly equal in size to the 
smaller of the two hematite implements figured by Messrs. Squier and 
Davis, and referred to in our description of figures 117 and 118, but 
somewhat more irregular in outline. Polished skiuning-stones as small 
as figure 120 are as useful for the larger mammals as are those given 
in figures 114 and 118, and we do not understand why there should be 
such a variation in size, unless, iu their making, stones of suitable 
shape were selected irrespective of size, and an edge, the length of which 
was decided by the original breadth of the stone, was given to them. 

In the collection of M. Newbold, esq., of Burlington County, New Jer- 
sey, to which we have frequently referred, there is a fine series of skin- 
ning-knives, all gathered from the immediate neighborhood. The largest, 
we should unquestionably class as a hand-ax, as its length, nine inches, 
renders it too unwieldy for skinning-purposes, but it stands at the head 
of a series which lessens in length very gradually down to two highly 
polished specimens scarcel}^ two inches in total length. By placing these 
specimens in a row, it is difficult to decide where the ax ceases and the 
knife begins. 

The smallest specimens of Mr. Newbold's collection are flat, sharply- 
pointed triangles, very highly polished, and, altogether, exhibit far 
more work than any we have figured, excepting, possibly, figure 115. 
The object of this sharply-pointed end is not easily determined. Cer- 
tainly it does not render the implement any more " handy" in the oper- 
ation of skinning, and is not likely to have been needed to i)uncture the 
hide, especially as great care «vas taken to preserve the skin as entire 
as possible. 

The skinning-knives iu the above-mentioned collection are made of 
porphyry, serpentine, and hornstone, the majority being of the first- 
named mineral, and those from the other two materials are about the 
same in number. 

The skinning-knives which we have figured, as well as those referred to 

" American Naturalist, vol. vi. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 307 

in collections other than our own, vary considerably in outline, tbougli 
but little in general finish, and may all be described as polislied peb- 
bles, with some i)ortion of the rim brought to a cutting-edge. iL has 
also been shown that these and the hand- axes, or those without a gioove, 
have many features in common, and, indeed, that they (the skinning- 
knives and hand-axes without grooves) are identical, except in size; 
but whether some of the specimens are classed as the one or the other 
implement depends much upon the fancy of the collector. 

We now propose calling attention to the apparent identity of the 
more common forms of skiuniug-knives and of some of the smaller 
hand-axes with the class of stone implements known to European archae- 
ologists as " polished celts." 

Mr. Evans* says: "The general form of stone celts is * * * * 
usually that of more or less Hat blades, approaching an oval in section, 
with the sides more or less straight, and one end broader and also 
sharper than the other. In length they vary from about two inches to 
as much as sixteen inches." 

It will be seen from this description of "celts," as a class, that the 
specimens represented by figures 116, 117, 118, would be called in Eng- 
land " celts," as would also all the "hand-axes" that we have figured. 
If, therefore, it w-ere proper to separate the two forms in America, why 
should they not be so separated when studied abroad ? Is it not prob- 
able that these implements, being identical in everything except the 
mineral of which they are made, had identical uses? 

Some of the illustrations given by Mr. Evans of polished celts are 
very similar to those we have given ; and, in fact, he speaks t of " hema- 
tite celts found in oS'orth America of much the same size and form" as 
those occurring in Great Britain and France. 

As to the uses to which our " skinning-knives" and the European 
celts were put, Mr. Evans remarks : " They were used chiefly for cut- 
ting dowji timber, and for scooping canoes out of the trunks of forest 
trees; for dressing posts for huts; for grubbing up roots and killing 
animals for food ; for preparing lire- wood; for scraping the flesh from 
the bones when eating; and for various other purposes in the domestic 
arts. But they were also employed in times of war as weapons of 
ofiense and defense, as a suj)plementary kind of tomahawk." 

We see here, indeed, a vride range of uses, and so varied are they 
that we should think their separation might easily be based upon such 
a list of purposes for which these implements were intended. Surely a 
" celt " a foot in length, perhaps, available for cutting down trees, would 
rather be in the way than useful " for scraping the flesh from bones when 
eating," while one two inches in length would scarcely befitted for digging 
uproots or killing animals suIJQciently large for food; yet such celts 
occur, and are moderately well adapted to skinning animals when once 

* Auc. Stone Imp. of Great Brit., p. 51. t L. c, ]}. 110. 



308 ETHNOLOGY. 

an incision is fairly made. While many specimens may have had 
A'arions uses, certainly the extremes in forms cannot be confounded ; 
and our ungrooved axes or true " celts " on the one hand and polished 
skinning-knives on the other are well-marked types of stone implements 
that are properly distinguished by names suggested by their probable 
uses, notwithstanding the varying forms which little by little effect 
a blending of the two types. 

Chapter XII. 

SCRAPERS. 

Among the very numerous "flint" specimens of Europe are certain 
rudely-chii^ped objects, of various sizes, which have received the name 
of "scrapers." Of these, Sir John Lubbock* says: "The so-called 
'scrapers' are oblong stones, one end of which is rounded and brought 
to a beveled edge by a series of small blows. One side is flat, the other 
or enter one is more or less convex; sometimes they have a short handle, 
which gives them very much the appearance of a spoon. They have 
been found in England, France, Denmark, Ireland, Switzerland, and 
other countries. They vary from one to four inches in length, and from 
half an inch to two inches in breadth. * * * Modern specimens 
(Esquimaux) are in form identical with the old ones." We have said 
that they are " rudely chipped," and, judging from the general appear- 
ance, as represented in the illustrations, they unquestionably are ; but 
this is very far from being the case with the New Jersey specimens. As 
a class, they are as well chipped and as uniform in shape as the majority 
of arrow-points. They usually have the " short handle" mentioned 
by Sir John Lubbock, but are not commonly as spoon-like in appear- 
ance, being similar in outline to the " sheaf of wheat," especiall}^ if 
viewed with the "handle" down. They vary somewhat from this typi- 
cal form of the " sheaf of wheat," however, especially in the character 
of the handle, which is sometimes pointed; and, again, there are other 
examples, having no distinct handle, but the edge of the scraper is 
receded from at a gentle slope, making the complete specimen a tri- 
angular flint, with the ijcculiar beveled edge which characterizes all 
such implements as " scrapers." One feature of the European scrapers 
is having one side flat or uniform, the result of the breaking away of a 
large flake, thus giving on one side the smooth surface of a single 
plane of cleavage. W^e have all our specimens chipped upon both sides, 
unless it be those of about the minimum size, which appear absolutely 
identical with the European specimens. 

During the summer of 1871, 1 forwarded a number of "sheaf-of- wheat" 
scrapers to Sir John Lubbock, who kindly wrote me, concerning them : 
" None of your specimens are ' true' ' scrapers,' according to our ideas, 
nor have I ever seen one from a red-skin area." Since then we have 

* Prehistoric Times, 2d ed., -p. 92. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 309 

gathered hundreds of our scrapers ; and of one of the smaller ones, 
smooth upon one side, Mr. Lubbock has written : '' 1 should certainly 
regard it as a scraper." During the present summer I forwarded speci- 
mens of the scrapers found about Trenton, IST. J., to my friend, Mr. Wm. 
A. Baker, of Auburn, K Y., and of one of them he writes: " The small- 
est (black) one is, in everything except material, an exact duplicate of 
my Yorkshire scrapers." 

Scrapers vary, in the minerals from which they are made, to the same 
extent as arrow-points; but the majority of them, unlike arrow points, 
are of hornstone, chert, jasper, and quartz. Many, however, are of 
slate and sandstone, and are carefnlly shaped, but have not the same 
degree of finish as the harder minerals ; but it may be possible that the 
slate and sandstone specimens were originally finished with the same 
care, but have been broken in the rough-and-tumble existence to which 
they have been subjected during the past two centuries. They have all 
softened upon the surface by the years of weathering, and, if judged b^- 
the surface only, would be considered much more friable than they 
really are. If the external coating of rotten stone is scraped off, the 
body of the specimen is found to be still sufficiently hard to turn the 
edge of the penknife. 

These remarks upon the surface-decomposition of slate and sandstone 
relics are, of course, as applicable to arrow-points of these materials as 
to scrapers. To what extent decomposition is indicative of age cannot 
well be ascertained; but that the very much worn, deeply rotted, and 
sometimes scarcely recognizable relics are considerably older than others 
of identical material, but bard upon the surface, there can be little, if 
any, doubt. 

Figure 121 represents the largest scraper in our collection and one of 
the largest that we have seen. It is of slaty rock, and is rudely 
chipped on both sides, quite hard, and in color very dark. The whole sur- 
face is much weather-worn, and is of a grayish hue, similar to the yel- 
low-gray Jersey sand in which it has been lying for so long a time. 
The specimen measures a fraction over four inches in length and a little 
more than two and one-half inches in width. The handle is exactly one 
inch long, and one inch wide at the end, but increases a little in width 
as it nears the body of the specimen itself. The scraping end is rounded, 
and equally edged with the sides. There is, in this specimen, no bevel- 
ing of the li-ont edge, as is the rule with scrapers; but that this is any- 
thing but a scraper no one will contend. We suppose that the short 
handle of this specimen was intended to be inserted in a bone handle ol 
greater width than the body of the implement, since otherwise such 
a narrow and short projection would only be in the way in using the 
specimen as an ordinary scraper. 

The other slate scrapers in our collection are all of the true " sheaf-of- 
wheat" pattern, having the beveled edge at the front, but as a class are 
thinner than those made from other materials. As slate was certainly 



310 ETHNOLOGY. 

more easily worked than jasper or quartz aiuT equally as good for a 
scraper, we cannot imagine why the harder minerals should have been 
used so much, unless that once made they were less liable to be broken — 
a probability which would seem of little moment when we reflect upon 
the little wear and tear on a stone solely used in scraping the soft fat 
from a scarcely harder skin. Nine-tenths of all the scrapers we have 
gathered, however, were of the various kinds of jasper and quartz. 
While our slate and other scrapers vary considerably in length, there is 
not this variation in width, and several in our collection are fully two- 
thirds as wide as figure 121, but less than half its length, and iu some 
cases only about one-third as long. 

Scrapers are seldom found singly, but are abundant on the former 
sites of ludiaa villages, and where arrow-makers had their workshops. 

Without making any distinction between true scrapers and stretch- 
ing implements, as suggested by Professor Nilsson,* we proceed to the 
consideration of the average jasper scrapers as we have found them 
about Trenton, IST. J. 

Figures 122, 123, and 121 are excellent specimens of the pattern we 
have called the " sheaf of wheat." To recognize the similarity iu out- 
line, the specimen must be viewed with the handle doicn and not as here 
given, which is, however, the true position of the scraper, considering 
its use. Two of these specimens have the beveled edge ; but in figure 
12.'> the edge is equally chipped from either side, which fact inclined us 
formerly to consider this a blunt arrow-head,t but more careful study 
with an enlarged collection makes us confident that we were for the time 
in error. We have seen that figure 121 was so chipped at the edge, and 
certainly no one will class that as an arrow-head. Occasionally the butt- 
ends of the scrapers will be curved and give the specimen much the 
appearance of a barbed arrow-point, the tip of which has been squarely 
broken away. In many specimens, too, the blade is much shorter than 
these we have here figured, being but a third or a quarter of the length 
of the handle, instead of equal iu length or longer. 

Figure 125 is a well-cut jasper scraper, Avith a narrower front, or scrap- 
ing edge, than usual. The specimen bears a general resemblance to 
Esquimaux examples that we have met with and have also seen figured. 
The handle does not join the body of the implement as abruptly as in 
the four preceding figures. 

Figure 12G is a beautifully wrought example of a jasper scraper, hav- 
ing much in common with figure 125, but is more symmetrical. The 
scraping edge is broader and flatter, and is beautifully beveled along 
the Mhole front, but the object ha^ an ordinary straight or cutting edge 
along the sides. The handle is about one-third of the total length of 
the specimen, and is neatly chipped and brought to a sharp edge on both 
sides and at the end. 

Itisseldom that we see a chipped-jasper implement with its use stamped 

" Stone Ago iu Scuud., p. 77. t Amor. Nat., vol. vi. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 311 

upon it as iu tliis instauce by the sliape, size, aud manner of finish. 
The beveled edge is very marked, being sharp on one side and bhint on 
the other, so that with the sharp edge the fat may be removed, the skin 
being softened by rubbing with the rounded edge — two imi)lements, 
really, being combined in the one stone. 

Figure 127 is a specimen of jasper scraper that more nearly ap- 
proaches the European form of this implement. It is smaller than the 
usual find of our IS'ew Jersey specmiens. The scraping edge has been 
I^roduced by a single flake being detached from one side along the whole 
width of the specimen. The handle is a short, narrow, stem-like i)ro- 
jection, terminating in a blunt point. 

Figures 128 and 129 represent two forms of scrapers possessing many 
points in common and which are also allied, but more remotely, to 
the preceding pattern. These two specimens were classed as arrow-heads 
in our paper in the American Naturalist ; but, as with the scraper previ- 
ously called a blunt arrow-point, so with these, additional specimens 
rendered their peculiar forms intelligible. They are unquestionably 
scrapers. Why they should be so shaped is not known ; but we were 
not a little astonished to find, during the present summer, other speci- 
mens exactly like the two figured, and varying among themselves just 
as these vary. Both figures, 128 and 129, have had very good points 
at the ends of the handles, and the additional specimens of these pat- 
terns are even better pointed. The chipped beveled base, however, of 
these supposed arrow-points furnishes a clew to their true character, and 
the additional examples, genuine duplicates of the i^receding figures, are 
as evidently scrapers as any specimens we have figured. The only spe- 
cimens we have met with have been gathered from a single field, and 
were associated with the common style of this implement, with arrow- 
points, &c. 

Figure 130 is a most interesting example of jasper scraper, having all 
the peculiarities of our sheaf-of-wheat pattern ; it is, however, exag- 
gerated, and the stem or handle, instead of being straight, has side 
projections, which make the specimen, when viewed ui)side down, a 
blunt, deeply notched, stemmed arrow-point. Its true character, how- 
ever, is that of a scraper, inasmuch as the edge is very carefully bev- 
eled, which would not be the case were it intended as a blunt point for 
an arrow. The object of the arrow-head-like " handle " is not at all clear.. 
In its present condition it does not offer a good hold for skin-scraping, 
and to attach a long slender shaft like that of an arrow to it, would ren- 
der it only more embarrassing for skin-dressing. This specimen, figure 
130, was found iu Indiana, and forwarded to the author with a number 
of others. They have all proved interesting for purposes of comparison 
with our New Jersey specimens, but no one of them differed in any im- 
portant particular from those of this State. We have seen a New Jer- 
sey scraper similar to this, except in being a little larger j but being 
broken wo preferred figuring the Indiana example. 



312 ETHNOLOGY. 

Figure 131 represents a beautifully chipped jasper scraper of the tri- 
angular form, and is the smallest specimen we have met with. It is a 
little less than one inch in length, and almost three-fourths of an inch 
in breadth, and is, therefore, of the minimum size according to Sir John 
Lubbock. Although chipped upon both sides, as is the rule with Kew 
Jersey scrapers, it is very nearly flat upon the under side, the sloping 
from the middle toward the edges being very gradual. The front, or 
scraping edge is carefully chipped at about right angles with the upper 
surface of the specimen. A ridge extends along the upper side of the 
whole length of the specimen, and from it, the surface slopes uniformly 
to the edge. The object in fastening a handle on an implement so small 
as this, the use of which is supposed to have been that of scraping, in 
rendering skins pliant and available for clothing, does not appear, unless 
it was used for skins of the smallest mammals. 

Mr. Evans* has figured no example of a scraper that is equal to this, 
figure 131, in general finish and workmanship, and only one that is as 
short. His specimen is broader, however, although otherwise it bears 
much resemblance to that from New Jersey. 

Mr. Evans, in his most interesting chapter t on "scrapers," has ad- 
vanced many reasons for his belief that some of our so-called scrapers 
were used in producing fire, in connection with pyrites, remarking of the 
English specimens, " we find some of these instruments with the edge 
battered and bruised to such an extent that it can hardly have been the 
result of scraping, in the ordinary sense of the word." 

We have many scrapers with battered edges, and of a quadrangular 
outline, very similar in general appearance to the modern "strike-a- 
lights," which we doubt not were used, as Mr. Evans suggests. Figure 
132 represents such a specimen of " scraper." It is of yellow jasper, an 
inch and a half long, an inch wide, and half an inch thick near the 
middle of the specimen. The front edge is much battered and has every 
appearance of having been struck against a mineral as hard as pyrites. 

Pyrites, in masses of various sizes, is very abundant about Tren- 
ton, N J., where these short, thick scrapers are found. It occurs in 
the beds of clay which crop out of the hillsides along the Kew Jersey 
shore of the Delaware, being there attached in large masses to the fossil 
trees imbedded in these strata. 

In closing this chapter, an illustration is given of a slate specimen, fig- 
ure 133, which has particularly interested me from the very marked re- 
semblance it has to a specimen of scraper, found by Sir John Lubbock 
at Bourdeilles, in the South of France, and figured the natural size in 
Prehistoric Times. I Our New Jersey specimen is identical with it in 
length, while the handle is immaterially broader, the only noticeable 
difference being that our specimen is chipped upon both sides. 

There is, perhaps, nothing so interesting connected with the study of 

* Anc. Stono Imps, of Great Britain, p. 277, lig. 220. 
1 1. c, pp. 280-2d6. 1 2cl ed., p. 92, fig. 103. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 313 

the "fliut" implements of New Jersey as tliis identity in the more im- 
portant features with those of distant countries. We liave seen tliis 
similarity in the axes and arrow-heads ; and now in the scrapers, we 
obtain an example of identity in a specimen from the South of France, 
and one from Central New Jersey- ; the former has existed as manj' cen- 
turies as the latter has years, and yet the latter must be more than two 
hundred years old. 

CnArxER XUI. 

HAMIMERS. 

There are occasionally found about our fields, slender oval stones and 
some of more irregular shape, with grooves entirely around them, as 
in one pattern of axes, which stones would serve as good axes had they 
a cutting-edge. Being without such edge their use as hammers is un- 
questionable. Such an oval, grooved pebble is well represented in fig- 
ures 133, 133a. There has been no chipping or pecking of this specimen 
other than was necessary to produce the narrow, shallow groove, to bet- 
ter secure the handle. This hammer is seven inches in length, about 
three inches wide in the middle, and tapers quite uniformly to the some- 
what narrower ends. To what uses such grooved stones were put it is not 
easy to determine. In this instance there is not the battered ap^iear- 
ance at the ends, indicating use as a hammer for striking other stones, 
as in the ends of chisels and gouges. Very probably it was a weapon, as 
its weight and size certainly do not suggest any heavy mechanical works, 
such as the ancient copper-mining, where immense stone mauls were 
largely used. 

Figure 131: represents an interesting form of stone hammer, being 
peculiar in that one portion has been pecked into such shai)e as to an- 
swer as a handle, instead of being so shaped as to require a wooden one. 
Probably the stone originally bore some resemblance to its present sliape. 
There has been a rude edge chipped upon the lower margin of the head 
of this hammer of about one-quarter of an inch in width. When this 
specimen was first described by us,* it was suggested that a handle had 
been attached to the present stone stem or handle ; but this is improb- 
able. W^hether it was used as a weapon or a domestic tool is indeter- 
minable. This is the only specimen we have met with of this style. 

Figure 135 represents the more usual shape and size of these stone 
hammers, as we find them in New Jersey. Of course occasional speci- 
mens of this and other styles occur that are several times larger. This 
specimen is exactly five inches in length. It was originally of the ordi- 
nary oval outline so common to the cobble-stones of the river-bed, and 
afterward pecked at the head to make it flatter. It has a very shallow 
groove pecked irregularly about it ; the dressing down was apparently 
more with a view to obliterate projecting angles than to secure a de- 

* Amer. Nat., vol. vi, p. 158. 



314 ETHNOLOGY. 

pression or groove for the bantlle-fasteiiings. At the eud or point there 
is a small pecked surface which may have been intended to produce a 
blunter end, or caused by hammering upon other stones, as ia using the 
chisel or gouge. We have sometimes thought it possible that such ham- 
mers as figure 135, which are by no means rare, may have been intended 
as axes at first, but in consequence of the amount of work required, or 
from other cause, they were rejected by the implement- maker. Were 
there not also hammers to which these remarks cannot be applied, and 
tools that require the use of hammers of some kind, we should be in- 
clined to adopt this view of " unfinished axes," especially since, at that 
time, as now, any stone of suitable weight and size, and conveniently 
manipulated, might serve as a hammer. 

Figure 136 represents a cobblestone hammer, which has puzzled us 
considerably. There is a well-defined depression extending all around 
the stone at one end, but it is so smooth, and uniform in color with the 
natural surface of the stone, that we are a little puzzled to determine 
whether the groove is natural, or whether the whole surface of the speci- 
men was polished or worked. That the stone is well shaped for a hammer 
is undoubted, w hether it be a chance bowlder or not j also, it is equally 
available for hammering purposes, with or without a handle, not being too 
large to enable one to secure a firm grip about its head, or grooved por- 
tion. There is no indication of pecking at any part of this hammer, 
nor does it show those slight inequalities which indicate use against 
other equally hard or harder stones. This specimen was found near 
Lambertville, N. J., and was presented to the author by Mr. William Dean, 
of that place, whose interest in Indian antiquities has resulted in preserv- 
ing many valuable specimens. The neighborhood from which this ham- 
mer came is quite rich in the various classes of relics, and the fact of this 
specimen being found associated with other implements is largely in 
favor of the idea that it, at least, was in use as a hammer by the Indi- 
ans, even if it w^as not grooved by them in the manner in which it now 
appears. 

Figure 137 represents a very handsome form of stone hammer, found 
near the Delaware River, at Scudder's Falls — a locality quite rich in the 
commoner form of relics. This specimen, kindly lent by John H. 
Scudder, esq., of Trenton, N. J., for purposes of description and figur- 
ing, was found some forty years ago, and has been used as a nut-cracker 
ever since. The specimen is a finely-grained sandstone, and has been 
carefully worked out into a very handy shape for hammering purposes. 
It measures eight and one-quarter inches in length, about four of which 
form the handle. The head of the hammer is quadrangular in outline; 
the whole outer and inferior inner lateral outline being at an angle of 
about forty-five degrees with the line of the handle, Both head and 
handle have a uniform thickness of two inches. There are now but few 
traces of tool-marks upon any part of the specimen, the inferior outer 
angle and extremity of the handle alone showing a roughness of the sur- 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 315 

face which has been so produced. It is probably an accidental fracturing 
of the cobble-stone which furnished the general outline of the specimen 
as it now exists, and that the uneven surftices were ground down to make 
the stone available as a hammer. But there is no doubt that the 
aborigines could fracture stones into pretty much the shape they desired, 
as "will be seen in the sculptured animals' heads, which were first broken 
and then smoothed down to correct dimensions. 

The outline drawing given above, of another specimen of " handled" 
hammer shows a decided variation from this example in that the handle 
was, and is, cylindrical, whereas in figure 137 the handle is flat, pecked, 
only at the end, and smoothed down with a polishing-stone. In figure 137, 
also, there is no trace of an edge ; as in the example above mentioned, 
there is nothing but blunt hammer-head surfaces throughout. This 
specimen may have been used as a weapon for close combat ; but if ex- 
amined in connection with the beautiful specimen of gouge represented, 
in figure 139, it will be seen that one supplements the other admirably, 
and that, with the two, charred wood could be easily removed, or a 
"dug-out" canoe readily made. This specimen of hammer bears some gen- 
eral resemblance to a not uncommon form of pestle, where a portion of the 
length has been " split," as it were, giving the specimen a canoe-shaped 
handle and a nearly circular head. Such a specimen is always rough 
on the extremity, showing that it was used as a pestle, the blow being 
struck with the specimen in a vertical position, and not as a hammer. 
We give a figure of such a pestle in chapter xxiv. 

We have never seen i)erforated hammers of the general shape of 
figure 133 from New Jersey, except in one instance, where a fragment 
was found that much resembled such a perforated stone hammer as 
Nilsson figures,* and of which he remarks, " it is of diorite, and of a 
very convenient shape. It was found in a bog in Scania, and fell into 
the hands of a carpenter, who provided it Avith a handle and used it a 
long time in his workshop as a hammer." The New Jersej' fragment 
was not as elaborately ridged and fluted, but was far more carefully 
shaped than any perfect ones we have seen. The specimen, however, 
was too fragmentary to determine positively whether or not it was a 
hammer. Inasmuch as we have so manj^ specimens of carefully-drilled 
" banner-stones," " gorgets," and some stone pipes, it appears strange 
there should be such an absence of tools that have been drilled for 
handles. We have never yet seen a perfect or even recognizable frag- 
ment of an ax or hammer sufficiently large to be useful as a tool, that 
was drilled for a handle instead of having the ordinary groove. 

Stevenst figures a stone hammer found in Ireland, not materially differ- 
ing from figure 135, to which we refer as another example of the curious 
identity of the specimens of stone-work found in distant quarters of the 
globe. We have not collected any specimens of very largo stone mauls, 

* Stouc Ago, pi. viii, fig. 172, p. G9. t Flint Chips, p. 557, fig. 121. 



316 ETHNOLOGY. 

aud it is to be presumed that they were exclusively used for 
miuiug- purposes. Dr. Wilson describes * those found in the copper- 
mining regions of Lake Superior, as " water-worn bowlders of green- 
stone or porpbj'fy, roughly chipped in the center, so as to admit 
of their being secured by a withe around them. But others are 
well finished, with a single or double groove for attaching the 
handle by which they were wielded. They weigh from ten to forty 
pounds."' It will be noticed here that his description applies also 
to the majority of the specimens we have found in New Jersey, 
where probably there was no mining, though copper occurs about New 
Brunswick, Middlesex County, New Jersey, and the surface lumps of 
native copper were eagerly sought for and utilized by the Indians. We 
do not remember ever having met with a stone hammer exceeding ten 
pounds in weight, the minimum weight of the stone mauls described 
by Dr. Wilson ; but they may occur, however, as the weight of the 
largest grooved ax we have seen was twelve pounds lacking two 
ounccs.t The hammers found in New Jersey are usually made of sand- 
stone; but the "mauls," as described by Dr. Wilson, are sometimes of 
porphyry, a mineral generally used for fine axes and " skinning-knives," 
but to our knowledge not at all for hammers. 

Grooved hammers, /or mining purposes , are described by Mr. Evans ;t 
they are similar to many of the surface-found hammers of New Jersey, 
but are smaller generally than the Lake Superior " mauls.*' 

Chapter XIV. 

CHISELS AND GOUGES. 

Messrs. Squier and Davis,§ in describing the various forms of stone axes 
trom mounds, as well as from elsewhere throughout the United States, 
remark that "the form of these relics seems to have been determined 
entirely by the manner in which they were designed to be used. Those 
intended for deadening trees, or as war-axes, have grooves for the 
adjustment of handles. There are many which are destitute of this 
feature, and which were probably designed for chisels or gouges.'''' The 
specimens of "chisels" figured, however, are there also called, aud 
very properly, "hand-axes," and are identical with those wo have 
figured as "celts." No true chisel or gouge — and they are different — 
is illustrated or, we believe, referred to. The implement we have called 
a " chisel," is an elongated, oval, cobble-stone, that has been pecked 
over the greater portion of its surface; it is well rounded at one end, and 
at the other has been carefully ground to a sharp cutting-edge. The 
under side is rounded, very uniform throughout the whole length, and 
curved toward the ends, so that, while lying on that side, it will rock to 
aud fro, if touched. Two-thirds of the upper surface have been smoothly 

*Prehist. Mau, 2(1 cd., p. KiL 

t In the cabinet of Jlicliael Ncv/bolil, esq., of Burlington County, New Jersey 

t Anc. Stone Imp. Great Brit., pp. 203-210. 

$ Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley p. 217. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 317 

split off, making it, uot a hollowed " gouge," but a smooth chisel. Fig- 
ure 138 is such a specimen. We have gathered a large series of the 
kind, showing that they were intended for some chisel-like use, and not 
merely a chance variety of the ordinary cylindrical celt. 

As we jneet with no stone-work that has been fashioned by such an 
implement, the natural inference is that they were used in connectiou 
with wood; and no woodwork of the aborigines suggests itself other 
than boat-building, and we have no doubt that logs were converted into 
canoes with some stone hammers, such as we have figured in connection 
with this chisel. It must have been a laborious process, comparing 
the stone chisel with modern ones; but how else could figure 138 
have been utilized ? Moreover, this view of the use of chisels is upheld 
by Dr. Daniel Wilson.* He writes in his fascinating work : "On the 
banks of the Scottish Clyde the modern voyager from the Old World looks 
with peculiar interest on the growing fabrics of those huge steamers 
which have made the ocean, that proved so impassable a barrier to the 
men of the fifteenth century, the easy highway of pleasure and commerce 
to us. The roar of the iron-forge, the clang of the trip-hammer, the inter- 
mittent glare of the furnaces, and all the novel appliances of iron-shij) 
building, tell of the modern era of steam; but, meanwhile, underneath 
these ver\- ship-builders' yards lie the memorials of ancient Clyde fleets, 
in which we are borne back, up the stream of human history, far into 
prehistoric times. The earliest recorded discovery of a Clyde canoe 
took ])lace in 1870, at a depth of 25 feet below the surface, on a site 
known by the apt designation of Saint Enoch's Croft, when digging the 
foundation of a church dedicated, by a strangely apposite misnomer, to 
the antediluvian father of Methuselah. This canoe, hewn out of a sin- 
gle oak, rested in a horizontal position on its keel, and within it, near 
the prow, lay a heautifulhj -finished stone ax or celt, * * * doubt- 
less one of the simple implements icith ichich this primitive ship of the Clyde 
had heenfashioned into shape.^^ It cannot be urged that there is no evidence 
of " dug-out" canoes having been used in New Jersey. We know from 
historical data that the aborigines of this section had canoes of some sort; 
and, that some dug-outs were used, we learn from the fact that one was 
found in Savannah River swamp, concerning which we have the follow- 
ing:! "In 1845, while digging a canal on one of the rice-plantations on 
the Savannah liiver, only a few miles distant from the city of Savan- 
nah, at a depth of three feet and a half below the surface of the swamp, 
the workmen came upon a canoe imbedded in the soil. It answered to 
the des(!ription of what is familiarly known as a dugout, and had been 
fashioned from the trunk of a cypress tree." If Dr. Daniel Wilson is 
correct in considering the oak log on the Clyde as hollowed by the celt 
found in it, which celt is analogous to ours, (see figure 2G,) then surely 
such a chisel, with a hammer, could elfect as much with a cypress log, 
or even the white oak, which grows to such perfection in New Jersey. 

* Prehistoric Man, 2(1 cd., p. 103. 

t Jour. Antbrop. Inst, of New York, vol. i, p. G7, 1871-72. 



318 ETHNOLOGY. 

Figure 139 is a curved chisel or " gouge" proper, and is a most beau- 
tiful specimen of workmausliip in stoue, being an absolutely perfect 
tool fashioned for some single particular purpose. It needs but one 
glance to see what the implement is and what was its use. It is a 
gouge (figure 139) of exactly five inches in length ; is polished over its 
entire surface, and hollowed throughout the upper side. The depth of 
the depression is uniform, but it narrows equally with the slope of the 
sides of the implement, giving the ridges above the depression a uni- 
form thickness. At about one inch from the cutting end, the depres- 
sion descends rapidly until it meets with an upward curve of the bottom 
or under side of the gouge. At this angle is a sharp edge, beautifully 
worked and still well preserved, which describes mathematically nearly 
one-half of a circle. No modern gouge of steel is more accurately out- 
lined than is this one. 

Figure 140 represents one of a pair of very beautiful gouges on the 
cabinet of Michael Newbold, esq., of Burlington County, New Jersey. It 
is of serpentine, very accurately cut, and highly polished. It measures 
three and three-quarters inches in length, and one inch and seven-eighths 
in width at the blade, which width does not alter as it nears the cutting- 
edge. The blade is just two inches long, and is headed with a curved 
knob, which is separated from the blade by a "neck" measuring 
about two-thirds of the width of the head or " knob." The back 
of this implement is moderately curved, but less so than the gouge we 
have already figured. The front side is hollowed out, and shows, by the 
character of its edge and the curved surface of the blade that the spec- 
imen was intended as a gouge; but there is no indication of hammering 
upon its head, and this, we think, gives occasion for the question 
whether it could be used as a gouge in the absence of a hammer. It is 
just possible that wooden mallets were sometimes used, but we do not 
believe they were, as, with the tools in use, a jjiece of wood of suitable 
size and shape would be difficult to procure, and we know stone ham- 
mers were in use. We shall find that this objection is urged with refer- 
ence also to another curious implement figured in chapter xxv, which 
bears much resemblance to a chisel. 

"We have seen no other specimens of this style of "gouge," except the 
two mentioned as in Mr. Newbold's cabinet ; and that gentleman in- 
forms ijs that he has seen no other specimens from his neighborhood, 
where these were found, or in any cabinet. The ridges at the sides of 
the blade in the one figured are quite thick and uniform, while the whole 
appearance of the specimen is that of a well-finished metal tool. 

Mr. Squier has figured in his monograph on New York aboriginal 
monuments,* a very symmetrical " stone ax," which has a well-marked 
rim about it, and an edge very similar to that of figure 140. Although 
there is so great a difierence in the size, w-e doubt not there was a simi- 
larity in the uses to which the two implements were put. The one 
*Abor. Mod. of New York, p. 77, fig. IG. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. ol9 

figured bj' INFr. Squicr is, of course, not an ax at all, and should never 
have been so called. 

The implements of themselves are not, we fmd, snflicient to give us a 
correct or complete insight into aboriginal ways of living during the 
stone age. It may be that implements and ornaments of perishable ma- 
terial were made wholly or in part with some such a tool as figure 
140; and that only the tools are left to us. 

Mr. C. C Jones, jr.,* in his description of the Savannah Eiver Swamp 
canoe, further states: ''While there were no marks of sharp-cutting 
tools, the evidence appeared conclusive that the charred portions of the 
wood, both within and without, had been carefully removed I)}' rude 
incisive imiilements, probably of stone ;" and still further on, " It is 
entirely probable that the ordinary stone ax or chisel was the 
only implement at command for the removal of the charred surface, 
as the cypress tree was by degrees converted into the convenient dug- 
out.''^ We agree with the author as to the chisel being used as he sug- 
gests ; or better yet, the gouge, as represented in figure 139 ; but not 
the " ordinary stone ax." It is very undesirable, certainly, to call an 
"ax" a "chiseF, or vice versa, if there is really the difference between 
the two forms that we claim. Do not a stone ax and a stone chisel, 
or gouge, differ as much as do these forms of tools made of steel, and in 
use p.t the present time ? Certainly, when such forms as figures 138, 139, 
and 110 were made, no Indian would undertake to hollow out a cypress 
log with an ordinary ax, such as we have described in the third chap- 
ter of this work. 

Some of the English stone chisels figured by Mr. Evans bear much 
resemblance to the specimen we have figured on i)age 151; but none of 
the gouges can in any way compare with the beautiful examples we 
have given in figures 139 and 140. 

Chapter XV. 

drilling-stones. 

There is nothing more interesting to the archaeologist than drilled 
implements of stone. It is scarcely necessary to remark that such 
drilled stones are rare, but only comparatively so, since the number of 
specimens now in museums and i)rivate collections is considerable, yet 
they are as nothing to the tens of thousands of arrow-points and allied 
implements. Their relative abundance maybe apparent from the state- 
ment that during two summers of collecting we have secured but 
twenty-four specimens for our collection of about eight thousand ob- 
jects, and of the twenty-four only five caH be considered perfect. 

The object of drilling holes through any of the stone implements used 
by the aborigines was to aflbrd a convenient means of susi)ending such 
articles. This particularly applies to thin objects, that have two or 

* L. c, p. G8. 



320 ETHNOLOGY. 

more boles of small diameter, such as those thin, quadrangular jolates 
so commonly found in graves, and which were apparently breast-orna- 
ments. 

" Mr. Wallace has * * * found that * * * plain cylinders of 
imperfect rock crystal, four to eight inches long, and one inch in diameter, 
are made and perforated by very low tribes on the Eio Negro." " The 
perforating of the cylinders crosswise, or even lengthwise, is said to be 
done thus : A i^ointed flexible leaf-shoot of wild plantain is twirled 
with the hands against the bard stone till, with the aid of fine sand and 
water, it bores into and through it, and this is said to take years to do."* 

We shall find that in New Jersey also stone was drilled by wood, with 
sand and water, but not exclusively, for, on the site of an Indian settle- 
ment which was not merely the locality of a temporary or periodical 
sojourn, we find in comparative abundance slender-pointed stone 
instruments, arrow-points in appearance, but which were probably 
never used for weapons. We have figured some of these specimens 
of so-called "arrow-heads" in the American Naturalist,t but reproduce 
them here with a number of others, under the name of " drilling-stones." 
That tlie two forms of arrow-points and drilling-stones merge into each 
other is very certain, it being but another instance of that gradation 
from one form to another so noticeable in most of the classes of stone 
implements we have thus far considered. 

Figure 141 is an unbroken specimen of the slender-bodied, square- 
based, jasper implements, which we suppose to have been designed for 
drilling. W^e were once confident that such an implement could have 
had no other significance than as an arrow-point, and wondered why Sir 
John Lubbock should " express this opinion only under reserve," iu stat- 
ing the possibility of their being arrow-heads. This specimen, with a 
number of others, gathered during the summer of 1871, were all charac- 
terized by a comparatively small base, which did not seem to interfere 
with their use as arrow-heads. During the summer of the present year 
we made careful search in a former Indian town, and gathered a very 
large series, and two constant features of the series convince us of the 
propriety of calling them drilling-stones. First, the majority have bases 
entirely too large for arrow-points, and all have bases which would be 
a defect in the arrow-head, if such they were ; secondly, none have sharp 
points, while many have been broken square off at the point, showing 
that when in use the strain was there; and again, in many the points 
are rounded hy rubbing, and are liiglihj polished. Figure 141 is carefully 
chipped and has never been used, the edges of the flake-marks being 
still sharp. The base has been chipped to a sharp edge, showing it was 
inserted into some kind of handle, and not held between the fingers as 
was sometimes the case. 

Figure 142 is a much smaller specimen of drilling-stone of the same 

* Early Hist, of Mankind ; Tylor, 2d ed., p. 190. London, 1870. 
t Vol. vi, pp. 20."j, G-14. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JEKSEY. 321 

general oatliue. It is carefully chipped tVoci slate, has the base sliari)Iy 
edged at its lower margin, aud less so upon the sides. The stem or drill 
has probably been longer, is nearly cylindrical, and is highly polished 
at the end, which we think clearly indicates the use of this little imple- 
ment. The size of this specimen suggests the probability of its having 
been attached to a handle, and that it Avas then driven by a to and fro 
motion. In some of the specimens of " breast-plates " which we have, 
there is a series of " half" ridges in the hole, showing apparently where 
the drill stopped to make a return motion. These ridges are similar 
in appearance to those in the larger drilled holes of " banner-stones," 
which, being perforated with a hollow drill, (probably a section of reed,) 
have unbroken circles lining the holes ; while, when the stone drill was 
used, it has produced, at least in some cases, a broken or half circle. 

Figure 143 is another example of the square-based drill ; it is of slate, 
well chipped, aud more fancifully outlined at the base. The stem or 
drilling i^ortion is quite long and unbroken, except the extreme point, 
which was probably never very sharp. The stem is flatter than usual, 
but quite stout, with a well-defined median ridge the whole length. This 
specimen has a very arrow-head like appearance in its general outline. 
It is large enough to be held in the hand for use in the manner sug- 
gested. Why the base should be made somewhat flaring, or " barbed " 
at its junction with the stem, is not clear, for, even if the object was 
used as an arrow'-head,such a feature would not be of any value. Such 
a shaped base is not uncomon, however, in the slate drills; but the 
specimens of this mineral are usually nothing but bases. 

Figure 144: is a beautiful piece of carefully chipped yellow jasper, a 
"drill" unquestionabl}^, but the drilling portion is unfortunately gone. 
This instance, however, is instructive, inasmuch as the size of the 
remaining portion of the specimen throws light upon these implements as 
a class. If any doubt existed in the minds of others about the smaller 
specimens, certainly it is clear that figure 141 is not an arrow-head. 
Nor can it be said that it is unfinished. The edges of the quadrangular 
base are carefully chipiied, and the lower margin in this specimen, as 
in the preceding one, is brought to what would be considered in a knife 
a good " cutting " edge. Such a chipped jasper, inserted into a wooden 
handle, and operated with a bow-drill, or held in the hand and operated 
by a wrist-motion, would prove satisfactory to the savage, to whom 
time was a matter of no importance. Many of the drilled stones, how- 
ever, were of much softer material than this jasper, and so would be 
jjerforated without much difliculty. 

Figure 145 is an instance of how readily the drilling-stone passes into 
the arrow-point proper. We incline to the opinion that this is a drilling- 
stone aud not an arrow-point, as the i)oint or stem is well defined, and 
appears to have been worn rather than broken. This specimen possesses 
peculiar interest, in that it has decomposed to such an extent as to now 
scarcely possess the consistency of chalk. Whether this degree of 

S. Mis. 115 21 



322 ETHNOLOGY. 

softeniug is a matter of years or not we will not conjecture ; but it is 
strauge that a stoue ouce liard enougb to be used for drilling other 
stone should become so j'otten. 

Figure 140 represents one of those specimens which we have before 
described* as an arrow-point. The speciuieil is of slate, and varies 
from the square-based specimens, only in having the junction of the 
stem and base less distinctly indicated. 

Figure li7 represents a specimen of slate drilling-stone with the 
largest base we have as yet met with. The specimen at present has 
much the appearance of a short-handled, large-bowled spoon. As in 
figure 144, there can be no confounding this fragment with an arrow- 
point. Judging from the slight bend in that portion of the stem which 
remains, we should consider the end of the stem to have been turned 
very considerably " to one side ;" a peculiarity, however, not confined 
to this specimen or its class. Some arrow-points have a similar bend 
at their points, which appears usually to be due to some peculiarity in 
the mineral rendering this shape necessary. We recall picking up a 
small slate arrow-point, that had both the point and the base, which 
were narrower than the body of the specimen, twisted in the same di- 
rection, making the specimen describe a part of a circle. This specimen 
was well chipped, and not crooked, because "the work of a beginner," as 
was suggested, but its shape was rather owing to the the whim of the 
arrow-maker — a shape more difficult to chip successfully than if it were 
straight. The base of this specimen is well chipped, being at every 
i:)ortion of the margin brought to a good edge. The flakes struck olf 
were unusually large, but five being taken from one of the sides. 

Figure 148 is a finely-shaped fragment, chipped from yellow jasper. 
In this example, the base is quite wide, but not long, not exceeding the 
fragment of the stem which remains. It is well chipped on both sides, 
and has a beveled, and not a cutting edge. Held by the remaining portion 
of the stem, this specimen would make an excellent scraper, and possibly 
these broken specimens, with this shaped base, were thus utilized. 
The stem exhibits a well-marked median ridge, so far as the fragment 
extends, from which it is equally chipped to the edge, giving the stem, 
viewed in section, a diamond shape; the median angles being nearly as 
well defined as the outer ones. 

Figure 149 represents a small specimen of chipped jasper drill, classed 
previously! as an arrow-point. This specimen is somewhat interesting 
from the fact of its strong resemblance to specimens of arrow-heads 
from Scandinavia, figured by Professor Nilsson.f The only variation 
in the specimens from the two countries is, that the one from New Jer- 
sey is better chipped than the other ; the latter not being, we think, 
used as an arrow-head. 

Figure 150 is a crooked, rudely-shaped specimen, noticeably flat upon 

* Amer. Nat., vol. vi, p. 20G. t Amer. Nat., vol. vi, p. 214. 

t Stone A<re, pi. ii, lig. 3G, aud pi. xvi, fig. 26G. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 323 

one side, and nnusually ridged, uneven, and roughly chipped ni)on the 
other. This specimen had long- been lying in our drawer of arrow-points, 
but in experimenting with it on a breast-plate, its crooked point was 
found to take hold admirably, and by twisting it to and fro we made 
such progress in drilling slate, and that without much wear upon the 
specimen, that we at once classed it as a drilling-stone. 

Figures 151 and 152 represent two forms of jasper drilling-stones 
which are, however, nearly allied. They present a marked difference from 
the others, in that the bases are not so different in breadth from the 
stems of the implements. 

Figure 151 is remarkably straight, beautifully chipped, and has, as 
usual, the edges quite sharp. In fact the base, in its shape, suggests 
the possibility of its having been used in drilling out the bowls of soap- 
stone smoking-pipes. The base is bowl-shaped in outline, and readily 
cuts soapstone. Were the stem a little more slender we should incline 
to the opinion that it was used to drill the stem of the pipe, and the base 
the bowl of the pipe. Figure 152 is much smaller, and like an arrow- 
l^oint. The base is oval in outline, the width decreasing gradnally as it 
passes into the stem portion of the implement. We doubt not the mode 
of using figures 151 and 152 was identical, and also that both were used 
in drilling other stones. 

Figures 153 and 154 are " points ", or the drilling-ends of -oiich speci- 
mens as we have been describing. They are quite abn»^'-'iiut, wherever 
the bases with or without "stems" occur, and ov-casionally we have 
been able to find two fragments that " fit." Th^^e " points" are always 
rounded or blunt, and the sides, for a shor<- disi^ance only, are smooth, 
as though they were intended for drillinp-*^"^ "^'?iT fl^iu plates of stone. 
The thin, polished slate "breast-plat-^''^ ^^"^ ^y f'»i' the most numerous 
examples of perforated stones t^'^^ occur in New Jersey ,• next come 
the thicker, flat, quadrangulp- '^^oues, with a single perforation at one 
end. We think it very pj-'^'^^^^ ^^^^ ®"^^ specimens were drilled exclu- 
sivelv with the species!'/ ""P^<-''»ents we have been figuring in this chap- 
ter. These shallo- ^'^'"'"S^ l^ave never that wonderful accuracv char- 
acteristic of th ^''^""er-stones, and the two depressions, which meet in 
the middle \*., f,^"""^^' '" *^^ ^^'^'^^st plafes, are not always o]iposite 
each n^'-''- ^'^^^^ **'^^ ^^^'G j"st such an anuiunt of irregularitv as 
be expected from a stone drill, held in the hand, and which' had 
ofooked a point, for instance, as figure 150. Certainlv, in the same 
stone, there is frequently a difference in the character of the perfori 
tions, as though the boring of one-half the hole dulled the drill and a 
new one was used upon the opposite side j and this difference appears 
to be explained when we look over a series of these pointed arrow-head- 
like implements which we have considered as the tools wherewith the 
perforations were made. 

Figure 155 represents a perfect example of a form of implement of 
which we have collected three specimens. We have classed it as a 



324 ETHNOLOGY. 

diilliug-stoue, because it mi(/ht liave been used lor such a purpose; but 
it was apparently never used, but lost or discarded as soon as made. 
The specimen is a chipped piece of slaty rock, four and seven-eighths 
inches in length. The head or point is narrower than the main portion 
of the implement, oval in outline, and somewhat pointed. About au 
inch from the point there is a slight contraction of the outline, when it 
again widens and retains a uniform width of an inch and one-fourth. 
The sides are well chipped and brought to a good edge, as is also the 
base of the specimen, which is slightly rounded. 

Figure 156 represents a beautiful example of chipping in white quartz, 
the specimen being the head, apparently, of such an instrument as fig- 
ure 155. As the three preceding examples are all of slate, this 
one is figured to show that the same instrument occurs in difi'erent 
materials. Although there is no indication of polish upon the point of 
this specimen, we believe it to be a drilling-stone — possibly one which 
was broken before being used. We find, by experiment, that with it 
but little time and labor are necessary to drill through the ordinary 
'' breast-plates," such as those described in the following chapter. 

We would also call attention to the similarity of this specimen with 
the " scraper," figure 129. There is indeed little or no difference, 
except that in figure 156 there is no chipped or beveled edge for 
scraping, as in figure 129. It suggests, in itself, therefore, that when 
an implement rJ^e figure 155 became broken, such a fragment as figure 
156 would usually l3t<oiiipped smooth upon the broken surface and thus 
converted into a scrape^. This would explain the presence of points, 
such as the scrapers, figuru. i28 and 129 have, which features do not 
appear to have any value so ic„ ^^g ^-j^g ^gg ^f ^^^g specimens as " scrap- 
ers" goes, and indeed, to us, the^ ■^^iem a great objection as they make 
the instrument much more difficult t^i^^^i^i^ 

Figure 157 represents a very roug't^^c shipped implement of slate, 
which bears some resemblance to the specimc q„^^^.^ i^^^ ^^ unhesitat- 
ingly pronounce it to be a drilling-stone, masmu-,^ ^^ ^^ ^^^ pointed end 
there is a polished surface, which has escaped th. ^^^^^.^^ weathering 
which the specimen has undergone. In this specimen ^.^^ ^^ noticed 
that the narrow portion or waist is nearer the middle tfia.. ^^^^^ ^_^^ 
so that the " head" is very nearly one-half the total length . ^^^ .^ 
strument itself. The sides of the specimen throughout their w.,^^ ^^ 
tent are brought by chipping, to cutting edges as sharp f /^^«^^ ^^^ . 
maiority of arrow-points or -flint" hatchets. It viewed horizontally 
figure i57 appears to be a slender tomahawk, and allied closely to some 
ot the forms of "rude implements" which we have described; the nar- 
row middle appearing to be notched for the better fastening of a handle. 
If such was the use and object of this specimen, then what we now con- 
sider the " base" was the front or cutting edge, and this it has cei- 
tainly never been, inasmuch as it is by far the most blunt and irregular 
portion of the margin of the implement. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 325 

The polished point, to which we have alliided, shows that the pur- 
]iose of this implement was to drill other stones, and, although the min- 
eral of which it is made has suftered softening to some extent by long 
exposure, still with saud and water it will now drill ordinary breast- 
plates. 

Figure 15S presents another form of chipped slate, bearing some re- 
semblance to figure 155, which we have classed with the drilling-stones, 
but whether correctly or not we are by no means certain. They are 
abundant ; almost always associated with the preceding forms, and al- 
ways made of slate. ' The one figured is a good example of this class. 
It is rudely chipped, three inches long, and two wide, at the widest por- 
tion of the specimen. The point is sufficiently sharp to drill the thinner 
"breast-plates," one side at a time. 

Mr. Evans has figured* six specimens of fiint implements, which he 
denominates " borers, awls, or drills." Four of them are very nearly 
identical with several we have figured in the foregoing pages of this 
chapter. Probably the most noticeable dilJ'erence is, which in such of 
Mr. Evans's figures as have broad bases, they are much less elaborately 
chipped than the New Jersey examples of the same implement. What- 
ever may be the advantage of true flint, which we do not have, over 
some veins of jasper, which we do have (not in New Jersey, but near it) 
in abundance, it is certain that the majority of our specimens, as scrap- 
ers, dririiug--stones, &c., are manufactured with greater elegance, and 
evince a more thorough knowledge of the "flint-chipping"' art. The 
English specimens of " drills" appear to be all " flakes " which have had 
their edges chipped, that the requisite shape might be given to the 
specimen. The New Jersey specimens, on the contrary, are, like arrow- 
heads, chipped entire, from a fraguient of jasper, or, it may be, from a 
jasper pebble, and no portion of the surface is a part of the natural sur- 
face of the rock. 

Two of the specimens figured by Mr. Evans are (juite blunt at the 
ends, but not more so than some of the drilling-stones which we have 
figured. These blunt forms Mr. Evans thinks may have been arrow- 
points, and not drills. Prof. Charles Piau, of New York, has given us a 
most interesting paper on drilling in stone,t in which he claims that a 
wooden drill, with sand and water, was one method in use during the 
stone age, for perforating- stone. We do not doubt that he is correct as 
to the larger holes drilled through polished stone ornaments, banner- 
stones, and pipes ; but we hold to our opinion as to the use of the speci- 
mens we have described in this chapter. 

We f<note one paragraph of Prof. Rau's paper, as bearing upon the 
question of the purpose of the specimens illustrated in this chapter. 
Prof. Pau writes: " Mr. Desor thinks it probable that the drilling was 
efiected by means of very thin flakes of flint fixed around a stick, which 

* Auc. Stone Imp. of Great Biit., pp. !2Hd-2'Jl. 
t Smithsonian Kcpoit for 18G-S-'0a, p. 302. 



326 ETHNOLOGY. 

was made to turn in such way as to separate a portion of the stone, 
which, when the iierforation was accomplished, would fall to the 
ground.* A drilling-stick of this description really may have served 
for perforating soft stones, but could not be successfully applied to 
hard uiaterials." We have carefully examined in detail all our speci- 
mens of " breast-plates" from slate and other minerals, and find that 
the holes through them can be duplicated by the aid of any of the 
specimens we have figured, merely twirling the drill between the thumb 
and fingers. 

Figure 159 represents a flat slab of very hard, finely grained sandstone, 
which in outline bears some resemblance to a small mammal, crouching 
down ; as a muskrat or small rabbit. This resemblance may be ac- 
cidental, and the outline produced in the more prosaic use of a whet- 
stone, as the margins are all polished and cut by contact with other 
stones. The five deep cuts upon the side of the specimen have been arti- 
ficially produced, and while they bear some resemblance to grooves 
on polishiugstones, such as were used in sharpening celts and skinning- 
stones, we rather incline to the opinion that they were made to give the 
stone a more animal-like appearance. 

We shall again refer to the specimen in chapter xviii. 

The object of placing the specimen in the present chapter, is to refer 
more particularly to the hole drilled through it, which, if the stone be a 
representation of an animal, corresponds to the eye. 

When the specimen taken from a grave was procured, there was on each 
side of the stone, where the perforation now is, a shallow circular depres- 
sion, with a "nipple" in the center, showing that a perforation had been 
commenced ; the drill used being a hollow reed. This of itself added to 
the animal-like appearance. By the aid of the two stone drills (figures 
IGl, 102) we completed the perforation ; accomplishing it after eleven 
hours of not difficult but rather tiresome labor. While drilliug, which 
was done by simply twirling the drills to and fro, we kept the specimen 
under water. The drill, figure 162, is of slate, and comparatively soft, but 
it did not wear away more rapidly than the jasper specimen, in conse- 
quence of the latter continually splintering ; the splinters amounting to 
about the same as the gradual wear of the softer specimen. Figure 
IGO represents a fragment of a large "breast-plate," very carefully 
polished along the edges, and smooth on the broad surfaces. When 
found, there was a siugle hole drilled through it, the uppermost one in 
the specimen as novf figured. The mineral is a dense sandstone, but 
more yiehliug than the " animal" carving, figure 159. With the softer 
drill, figure 1G2, we made the nine perforations seen in the illustration. 
The time occupied in drilling each hole varied from a half to three-quar- 
ters of an hour ; the wear upon the implement was scarcely appreciable. 
Considering that thin plates of stone were so frequently perforated by the 
aborigines that they might be suspended to the person, and that 

* Palalittes, &c., p. 359. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 327 

imi)leiiieuts of stone admirably adapted to such work are so abundant, 
we are of opinion that our suggestions as to the use of the latttr arc 
substantially correct.* 

CiiAriEK XVI. 

BREAST -PLATES A>'D GORGETS. 

On the site of ancient Indian towns, throughout the whole State, or 
wherever evidences occur of a fierce battle, and in every grave we have 
opened, are found tablets of easily-worked stone, varying in length and 
outline, and, as a rule, carefully polished, and perforated with one, two, 
or more holes. Such stone ornaments — and they were intended merely 
as ornaments — we have called " breast-xdates," because found lying near 
the breast of skeletons in the graves which we have examined, or "gor- 
gets," a good name for them, suggested by Squier and Davis. 

Wo have said that these breast-plates or gorgets vary in shape and 
size, which is the case, but those found iu IS^ew Jersey are most usually of 
the shape of our first illustration, (figure 1G3,) and vary only in other 
details from this, which may be considered the typical form. The min- 
eral of which they are made varies much, but none have been found of 
stone as hard as porphyry. 

Figure 103 is four and five-sixteenths inches long and one inch and five- 
eighths wide at the middle; this specimen has been drilled in two places 
from each side until the depressions met, the distance between the 
holes on one side being exactly four-fifths of an inch, a distance noticed 
particularly by Squier and Davis,+ iu several of the specimens they 
figured. They remark, " It is a singular fact that the holes in the three 
specimens first noticed, as also iu some of those which follow, are 
placed exactly four-fifths of an inch apart. This could hardly have 
been the result of accident. These relics were found at dill'erent locali- 
ties, several miles distant from each other." If this similarity of dis- 
tance between the perforations was intentional, it would seem that 
the stone had some use other than merely as a breast ornament. Cer- 
tainly, in such case, the mere distance separating the holes could have 
had no special use. In figure 163 this distance is variable, inasmuch 
as the hole is obliquely drilled, and so produces a greater space between 
the two perforation-s on one side than on the other. This crooked drill- 
ing and unequal interspacing is quite common, and seems more strange 
when the accuracy of the drilling in " banner-stones," which were much 
more elaborate ornaments, is taken into consideration. The rude drilling 
of some breast-plates may indicate that they are older than banner-stones, 
and were fashioned when the art of drilling was not much advanced. 

"Mr. Jobu Evaus, of Euglaud, rtfcmug in detail to the various I'onus in a small 
collection of antiquities forwarded to him by the author, writes of a slato drill, a/ac 
simile of fig. 14"2 : "I imagine it to have been au awl or boring-tool for soft subsitauces, 
such as leather.' While this is very probable, we think we have shown clearly that 
these "soft" drills are capable of drilling ru stone. 

t Auc. Mou. Miss. Valley, p. 2:37. 



6ZS ETHNOLOGY. 

On one side, at the extreme end of this specimen, figure 163, is a row of 
sliort notches carefully cut, and of a size throughout. Such notches 
being better i)reserved on the next figure, "we will reserve our remarks 
concerning them until that specimen is described. Figure 1G3 was prob- 
ably considerably harder when fashioned into a gorget. It has under- 
gone a process of decomposition which has made it chalky on the sur- 
face, while the interior has not been unaffected. The specimen is of a 
reddish-brown slate with a greasy feel, similar to that experienced by 
the collector in handling milky quartz, but to a greater degree. 

The length and general shape of such breast-plates as figure 163 have 
rendered them peculiarly liable to be broken, especially when lying near 
or upon the surface of our long-cultivated fields. Usually such speci- 
mens, when so found, are but halves, or even smaller fragments ; and 
whole ones are to be looked for only in the graves. Figure 163 was taken 
from a grave, in a little natural mound, on the tract of marsh known as 
Bear Swamp, near Lawrence, Mercer County, New Jersey. Associated 
with this breast-x)late were several arrow-points and an ax. Figure 
161 represents a most interesting specimen of breast-plate. Its shape 
is peculiar, the number of holes unusual, and the series of notches at 
the rounded end a marked feature of the specimen. The upper mar- 
gin measures two and three-fourths of an inch in length ; the lower, a 
trace over one inch and a half. The notched end is rounded at the an- 
gles, and the curves thence continue as a reversed and longer curve along 
the sides. The oblique end has been as carefully polishetl as the flat 
surfaces. The holes, four in number, were roughh- drilled and evi- 
dently in pairs, and not promiscuously or even at one time. The pair 
quite near together are larger than the others, irregularly drilled, and are 
in the center of the plate. The other pair, better drilled, and smaller, 
are at the angles of the oblique end of the specimen. The chief feature 
of interest connected with this specimen is the series of carefully cut 
notches, very regularly distributed along the curved end of the i^late ; 
eleven on one side and nine on the other. The nine notches upon the under 
side are not mere continuations of the others, but are distinct, in some 
instances not being opposite the others. The thought naturally arises, 
what do these notches indicate ? We believe that, as the specimen was 
a breast-plate or a breast-ornament, these notches were a record of the 
number of fights in which the wearer was engaged, or of scalps taken. 
The notches cannot be said to be either useful or ornamental for a 
breast-plate, they are not requisite at all, as are holes for suspending the 
same, while they are too inconspicuous to be considered merely orna- 
mental markings. The natural inference, therefore, is that they are in- 
tended as a " record."' 

Figure 165 represents a difterent form of stone ornament which may 
have been suspended by a cord so as to hang in front of the breast, or 
was suspended from the terminal lobe of the ear. At any rate, it was 
designed for ornament and not for any other purpose, as has been sug- 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 329 

gested, such as a fisliiiiji-line woijilit or a sinker. This speoinu'ii is not 
smoothly finished, nor accurately outlined, as is usual Avith this pattern 
of ornamental stones. The hole is nearly uniform in width, from side to 
side, being somewhat more flaring upon the " wrong" side, or that 
which is not marked with ornamental lines. These lines are an interest- 
ing feature of this specimen. They are much less distinct than the 
notches in figure 164, and are more than double their length ; the spaces 
between them are much wider, and the lines themselves are engraved 
upon the sides of the stone, instead of ou the end : yet, with all these dif- 
ferences, their object was no doubt identical with that of the notches in 
figure 164. About the perforation of this specimen are also four lines, 
similar in depth and width to those ujion the sides, which are drawn at 
such angles to each other as to meet above, at each side, and beneath, 
making a diamond-shaped figure. AVhether this was merely for orna- 
mentation, or, like the side markings, tor a record of certain events, is 
not determined, but the j^robability is that it was only to compensate 
for the general roughness of the specimen both as to shape and surface. 

Figure 166 represents a polished serpentine specimen of the same 
general character as the preceding one. It is longer, but of the same 
width; it is considerably thinner, flat upon both sides, and more highly 
polished along the edges than over the sides. The perforation is quite 
diflerent from that of figure 165, being a cup-shaped depression, made 
upon each side, and meeting at the middle of the stone, the hole there 
being but one-third the diameter of the drilling upon the surface. There 
is no trace of any '' record" mark whatever upon this specimen ; it being, 
in this respect, different from all the preceding examples, and similar to 
one of the seventeen specimens figured by Messrs. Squier and Davis,* 
except that the hole is nearer the end than that of the Ohio specimen. 
Of the relics of this class, from Xew Jersey, the specimen figured is the 
usual size ; but occasionally they have been found greatl}" exceeding it. 
Mr. ISTewbold, of Burlington County, jS'ew Jersey, has one specimen ex- 
actly twice the length, but otherwise like the one figured. 

Figure 167 represents a small, but very handsome gorget, which has a 
marked peculiarity in the ornamentation upon one side. The specimen 
itself is short, being but one inch and three-quarters in length. The 
upper or i)erforated end is but three-eighths of an inch in widtli, and 
from this upper margin the specimen increases uniformly in width until 
near the bottom, when it rounds ofl" in an almost regular curve. The 
hole appears to have been drilled wholly from the plain, or under side, 
being wider there at the surface than upon the opposite side, which has 
a slightly worn edge occasioned by the rubbing of the cord that sus- 
I)ended it. We believe this si)ecimen to have been pierced with one of 
the smaller stone drills figured in the preceding chapter. 

The ornamentation of figure 167 differs from any that we have ever 
seen elsewhere. The surface of the stone has been smoothly Avoru oft', 

*L. c, p. y:i7. fig. 136, No. 14. 



330 ETHNOLOGY. 

leaving, a short distance below the perforation, a quadrangular figure 
that may be called a hollow sciuare, there being a cleanly-cut depression 
in the center of the projecting " square," the width of which is just 
double the depth. Below this figure commences a second, which can 
be compared to an inverted pick-ax, with the iron arms straighter 
than usual. It is simply a "raised" ridge, the surrounding surface 
being cut away to leave it in bold relief. It is not exactly in the cen- 
ter of the specimen, but near it, the upper ridge or handle of the pick 
being slightly inclined to one side. Below this the specimen is smoothly 
polished and somewhat sloped to the end. We cannot see how any 
doubt can be entertained as to the nature of this specimen. If not a 
snspcnded ornament, it is safe to express doubt as to an arrow-head being 
an arrow-head or au ax being an ax. 

Figure 168 is another most interesting specimen of this class of relics. 
It is a piece of black, well-worn stone, but with no polish ; it is thin, but 
irregularly so, and has a greasy feel which is most deceptive. One can al- 
most smell the grease, now stale, with which the object seems to be satu- 
rated. The specimen is leaf shaped, more pointed at one end than at the 
other, and, when viewed horizontally, has a striking resemblance to our 
common sun-fish {Pomotis i^ulgaris). We believe that this fish was in- 
tended to be represented, and that itwas the tribe mark of the original pos- 
sessor of this ornament. If such was the case, then the hole which 
represents the eye of the fish was used to suspend the specimen from 
the person who carried it. Notwithstanding the unworn condition of 
the hole, which is of uniform width from one side to the other, we be- 
lieve that a soft string, probably a sinew, was passed through it and 
the gorget suspended from the neck. That such was the use of this 
specimen cannot, as in the preceding example, be doubted. 

Figure 1G9 represents a split, water-worn jasper j)ebble, of somewhat 
irregular shape, with an extensive perforation through it. The hole is 
about one-half the diameter upon the under or split side that it is upon 
the upper. The under side, however, has an equally weather-worn 
polish with the upper, indicating that the perforation was made subse- 
quently to the splitting of the pebble, or that many years have elapsed 
since the " split" pebble was drilled, the peculiar gloss of the fractured 
surface indicating great age. The somewhat irregular outline of the 
perforation upon the " split " side of the pebble favors the belief that 
the fracture occurred after the drilling. This specimen is interesting 
from its resemblance to an African example figured by Sir John Lub- 
bock.* This Afiicau drilled stone is square instead of pentagonal, and 
the drilling is of much less diameter at the junction of the two depres- 
sions which, together, make the perforation. 

Squier and Davis t seem to be in doubt as to the use of such speci- 
mens as the preceding seven figures of this chapter. They remark, 
" at first glance it seems obvious that they were designed for suspen- 

* Jour. Antliiop. lust, of Great Britaiu, vol. i, yl. i. t L. c, p. 238. 



STONE AGE LNT NEW JERSEY. 331 

sion ; but there are manj- ciiTumstances which it is not easy to re.rou- 
cile with that conchision. In common with the perforated copper 
plates, ah^eady described, they exhibit slight traces of friction upou the 
edges of the holes, which, for the most part, are as sharp as if newly 
cat. This could hardly be the case had they been worn suspended from 
the neck, or upon any part of the person." Xotwithstauding this objection 
we have considered these perforated plates to have been ornaments for the 
person, from the fact of their position, which is always the same when 
found in graves. On opening a grave, the invariable position of the 
trinkets and weapons has been as follows : weapons on the right side ; 
pipe on the left ; small vase (pottery) at the feet, and the ornaments 
near the region of the breast. If these " breast-plates," as we have 
termed them, had been some domestic implement, as a " bow-string 
twister," it seems strange that they should have been invariably placed 
upon the breast of the person buried. x\gain, why so large an amount of 
ornamentation, as is sometimes seen, if the stone relics in question 
were not used for decoratiou ?* 

Figure 170 represents a not very abundant, curiously-wrought stone 
ornament or implement, we cannot determine which, but one which was 
once used over a large extent of territory.! This specimen is a fraction 
over four and a half inches long. The body, or main portion, is very 
accurately sloped to the back, which is a narrow flat ridge, of a uniform 
width of one thirty- second of an inch. The '' head" of the specimen is 
nearly square, and not unlike the head of a blunt muzzled mammal in 
shape. The knob-like protuberances stand out from the head one-third 
of an inch, and have a narrow neck, about one-half the width of 
the " knob " itself. The bottom of the implement, as the illustration 
shows, is tiat. There is at each end of the bottom of the speci- 
men a small hole, drilled obliquely upward and outward, meeting' 
another drilled hole, made from above, and extending doAvnward 
until it meets the other. These holes are characteristic of this class 
of relics. There appears to be a considerable diversity of opinion 
as to the nature of these relics, all of which are about the same size as 
the one figured, and, as a class, they are more than usually uniform. 
No illustration of this pattern of ornament that we have met with has 
the knob-like protuberance, or head, so noticeable as this. 

170. Schoolcraft! has designated this form of relic as a handle for a 
knife, the blade of which was obsidian or jasper. One of these "knife- 
handles" is figured, found on Cunningham's Island, Lake Erie, New 
York, which is considered to be " apparently a sacrificial or a flaying 

* Figures 109 a-b represent the two sides of breust-plate, foiiiul near Fi'eebohi, N. 
J. The very elaborate ornamentation on each side, and the careful notching certainly 
are to be taken us proofs that the specimen itself was an ornament, and not a mere 
implement. This specimen was received from Rev. S. Lockwood, of Freehold, N. J., too 
late for further description, 

tSijuier & Davis, Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 239. 

illist. Condit., &c., N. A. I., vol. iv, p. 17.", pi. xxiii, tig. 2. 



332 ETHNOLOGY. 

knife." The relic is so described, although tliere is no indication of a 
blade.* 

We believe that Messrs. Squier and Davis i correctly cover the whole 
ground concerning them, in stating that "it may reasonably be con- 
cluded from the uniform shape of these articles, and from their appar- 
ent unfitness as implements, as also from the wide range of their 
occurrence, that they were invested with a conventional significance 
as insignia, or badges of distinction, or as amulets. We know that the 
custom of wearing certain stones as preventives of disease, or as safe- 
guards against accidents or the malice of evil spirits, has not been con- 
fined to one continent, or to a single age. It is not entirely obliterated 
among certain classes of our own people. Kegal authority is still indi- 
cated by rich baubles of gold and gems. It matters little whether the 
index of royalty be a scepter or a simple carved and polished stone, so 
that it is sanctioned with general recognition." 

CHA.PTER XVII. 
BANjNER-STONES. 

The love of display that has survived the changes in human culture, 
and which is witnessed in some civilized communities in all the glare 
and glitter of barbarian times, was and is a marked trait in the charac- 
ter of the American aborigines. And, although in their painting there 
is nothing but harshness and most violent contrasts of gay colors, and 
in their pipe-sculpture but little to commend, we nevertheless have, in 
the series of stone relics which we have here called " banner-stones," a 
beautiful illustration of the fact that symmetry could be obtained in 
more complicated forms than the shapes of arrow-points; and elegance 
of design and accuracy in details were sought and acquired by this 
untutored race, their banner-stones being the more remarkable in that 
they are frequently of hard stone, to fashion, carve, and polish which 
the only tools available were those of the same material. 

The variety of forms in this class of stone ornaments is very exten- 
sive, and so scarce are unbroken specimens that we have been unable 
to present nnj great number of figures. Of the more common shape, 
which may, perhaps, be considered typical of the class, we have but one 
absolutely perfect specimen. (Figure 172.) Of the varying examples we 
present one which is of peculiar shape — a broken specimen, "done up" 
for duty again as an ornament. 

We have classed these relics as " banner " stones or ornamental stones, 
either used in the decoration of weapons or for suspension from the 
body, after the manner of breast-plates. 

Figure 172 is a beautiful example of the more usual form of banner- 
stones, as found in Xew Jersey. In outline, finish, and perforation it is 
faultless. Of a very fine-grained sandstone it was first carefully chipped 
and then polished until no trace of uneven surface can be detected in it. 
The upper or conv ex margin is accurately curved from end to end, with 

*L. c, vol. ii, pi. 45, fig. 1. tAnc. Mou. Miss. Valley, p. 239. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 333 

the exception of a very slight depressiou at the opening of the perfora- 
tion. One end is somewhat flattened, the other less abruptly outlined. 
The under or concave margin is less defined than the upper, and more 
sloping from the center toward each end than a segment of a circle. 
Both the upper and lower margins are flat, the width of each decreas- 
ing from the perforation at the middle of the specimen toward each end. 

The hole which passes entirely through the middle of figure 172 is a 
very noticeable feature. It measures a little less than nine-sixteenths of 
an inch in diameter 5 it is perfectly circular, of uniform dimensions from 
end to end, and faintly exhibits those rings that characterize holes drilled 
■with a hollow instrument, as a reed, as this perforation must have been. 

Professor Eau, of ZsTew York, has so fully and accurately gone over the 
whole subject of drilling in stone without metal, that we refer our 
readers to his paper* for the details of the modus operandi of making 
these larger perforations which characterize such relics as we have called 
banner-stones. A superficial examination of the hole drilled through 
figure 132 shows that such perforation has been made with a hollow 
instrument. We presume it to have been a reed, and Professor Eau 
states, in the paper above mentioned,! " It is very likely that the liolloiij 
drills of the aborigines of JSTorth America were pieces of that hard and 
tough cane [Arundinaria macrosperma^ Michaux) which grows abund- 
antly in the southern part of the United States, mostly along the banks 
of .large rivers, and forms at present an article of trade, being used for 
pipe-stems and fishing-rods. This cane varies considerably in thick- 
ness; sometimes as thin as a straw, it assumes, when ivWy grown, the 
diametral proi)ortions of a strong rifle-barrel, and even of larger cylin- 
drical objects, in which cases it reaches the enormous height of 25 or 30 
feet. A i^iece of this cane, from which the knotty joints have been cut, 
forms a regular hollow cylinder sufficiently strong to serve as a drill, f 
learned from Dr. Davis that many years ago a stone pipe with an ui:- 
finished hollow, partly filled with vegetable matter, was sent from Mis- 
sissippi to the late Dr. Samuel P. Morton, of Philadelphia. When sub- 
jected to a microscopical examination the vegetable substance exhibited 
the fibrous structure of cane, and thus appeared to be a remnant tf 
a drill broken off in the bore. Squier and Davis \ figure one exam- 
ple of a banner-stone, very similar to figure 132, and say of it. and 
others somewhat similar, " It is clear, both from their form and mate- 
rial, that they were not designed for use. They may be regarded as 
having been intended simply for ornament or display." 

Whatever may have been the manner of exhibiting such stone ornsi- 
ments it is impossible to determine, but the fortunate possessor of such 
a specimen might well be proud of it. May it not be that such stones 
were the ''charms" of the "medicine" men? Stones that were con- 
cealed from the general gaze of the crowd, and only brought to view 

* Smitlisoniau Rep. for 1868, p. 392. t L. c, p. 31)9. 

X .\nc. Moil. Mi8S. Vullev. i>. -JIS, fig. 114, No. J. 



334 ETII NEOLOGY. 

with elaborate coverings on great oecasious. They do not seem suffi- 
ciently abundant to be simply the ornaments of chiefs or warriors. 

Figures 173 and 173a represent a second example of tbis form of 
perforated ornament, or banner-stone. It is shorter and broader than 
the preceding, but is well made, and drilled with that smoothness and 
beauty which are marked features of figure 172. The outline drawing 
of a sectional view of the specimen shows that the perforation is some- 
what oval, instead of perfectly circular, and the diameter of the drilling 
is a little less at the apex than at the base. The drilling of this hole 
must, therefore, have been done with something difi'erent from a section 
or a number of sections of reed of identical diameter. This specimen 
has probably been drilled by the api^lication cf sand and water, in con- 
nection with a solid drill, as a pointed wooden stick, but the perforation 
begun below has been continued from thence, but only half the distance 
on each side as is usual in such cases.* 

Figure 171 represents a very interesting form of banner-stone, of a 
totally different shape from either of the preceding examples. This 
specimen is an oval or ovoid polished pebble of a soft mineral, approach- 
ing, but not identical with soapstone. The two halves, if we divide it 
through the center of the perforation which extends from the top to the 
bottom, will be found identical in every particular of shape and dimen- 
sion. The base of the specimen is somewhat more flattened than the 
top, and appears to have been in contact with another stone, as it is 
worn off smoothly, but with a variable width. This worn surface is of 
a lighter tint than the other portions of the specimen. The perforation 
is a little less in diameter than that of figure 172, but it is of equal beauty 
of workmanship. The diameter is the same throughout, the perfora- 
tion being accurately circular, and showing the rings which indicate 
drilling with a hollow tube. For a short distance from the base, extend- 
ing upward along the sides of the perforation, the "rings'* are not dis- 
tinguishable, except by the closest scrutiny, and appear to have been worn 
away by the rubbing of whatever passed through the hole as a handle or 
suspensory cord. From point to point, this specimen measures two and 
five-eighths inches, and across the middle one inch and a half. The 
diameter of the perforation is just one-half an inch, or one-third of the 
total width of the specimen itself. 

Figure 171 is quite similar in general appearance to a specimen of this 
character found in Mississippi, and figured by Squier and Davis, 
which specimen, however, "measures six inches in length. The hole is 
half an inch in diameter at one end, hut less at the other j''^ which latter 
feature is met with in figure 173, but not in either figure 172 or 174. 

Figures 172 and 174 were both found in Burlington County, New 
Jersey, but not together, and were kindly presented to the author by 
Joseph Newbold, esq., to whom we are indebted for several favors of a 
similar character. 



Vide Rail, 1. c. , p. 92. 



STONE AGE IX NEW JERSEY. 335 

Figure 175 represents a form of banner-stoue allied to lignre 172, but 
is noticeably different in not being perforated for a handle or suspensory 
cord, but simply grooved upon one si(?o; the groove, too, beiug narrow 
and very shallow. The specimen is of hornstone, and was first pecked 
into its i)reseut shape, and subsequently polished over the whole surface 
of one side and one-half of the surface of the other side. The groove 
is polished over its entire surface. The margins are all blunt, and, 
jilthough quite regular in outline, have had no care in finishing. 

"We have met with no other specimen of banner-stone that v.as 
grooved on only one side, and it may be, indeed, that we err in con- 
sidering figure 175 under this heading; but its size, shape, and gen- 
eral appearance show very plainly that it was never intended either as 
a weapon or a domestic implement, unless it is unfinished and was in- 
tended to be a double-bladed skiuning-knife. This conjecture, however, 
we do not believe to be in any way correct. 

Figure 17G is the half of a banner-stone of the pattern of figure 172, 
but much smaller than that specimen, and pointed, instead of bluntly 
rounded at the end. This fragment is interesting, as it shows that such, 
banner-stones were highly valued by the people who fashioned them, 
and that a piece of one was not to be discarded if it could at all be 
utilized. The broken edges of this specimen, which has been fractured 
along the perforation, has been carefully smoothed down, and through 
the middle of one of these projecting edges a small hole has been drilled. 
This hole has been drilled from both sides, showing that the specimen 
was broken after the large hole had been completed. Along the lower 
margin, on one side only, is a long row of narrow, closely-placed lines, 
which appear to have been carved there by design as a "record," such 
as we have shown on specimens of the breast-plates. 

As a class, these banner-stones are found scattered over the country, 
at or very near the surface. They are turned up occasionally by the 
plow or spade, but are not found more numerously at one point than at 
another, as at localities known to have been sites of Indian villages for- 
merly. We have not met with any specimens of this stone in graves, as 
we have with the breast-plates described in chapter xvi. 

These elaborate banner-stones bear witness to the great patience pos- 
sessed by those who fashioned them. Although it is true that time was 
not taken into consideration in the various undertakings of the aborig- 
ines, yet, in view of their well-known aversion to labor, these specimens 
are the more marvelous, since steady hard labor was required to bring 
them to their present respective conditions. 

It must be noticed that these banner-stones are now no longer made 
by any of the western tribes. The rude brass trinkets obtainable at the 
trading-posts, and the bright-colored beads, have taken the place of 
these less gaudy, but far more beautiful ornaments. The contact of the 
Indians with the whites has certainly been fatal to their taste for art, 
from the banner-stone to the bead beiug a long step backward. 



336 ETHNOLOGY. 

The stoue implements of Great Britain do not include any forms 
which are analogous to our banuer-stoues. In Mr. Evans's work there is 
nothing in any way similar to the specimens figured in this chapter, ex- 
cepting, perhaps, an oval perforated hammer-head,* which, however, is 
double the s^ze of the banner-stone, (figure 174,) which it resembles. 

Chapter XYIII. 

stone-age sculpture. 

Lubbock says : " The earliest traces of art yet discovered belong to 
the Stone age — to a time so remote that the reindeer was abundant in 
the south of France, and that probably, though on this point there is 
some doubt, even the mammoth had not entirely disappeared. These 
works of art are sometimes sculi)tures, if one may say so, and sometimes 
elrawings or etchings made on bone or horn with the point of a flint."t 

We recalled this statement on finding our first specimen of New Jersey 
Stone-age sculjiture, and could not but feel astonished to see so rude an 
attempt at art, when the pijDes of the western mound-builders are so 
elaborate in all their features. The date of the production of these " ani- 
mal carvings " is as yesterday, compared with the sculptures and etch- 
ings of the reindeer jjeople of Southern France, and yet they are even 
ruder, and far ruder than the pipe-sculptures of the mound-building peo- 
ple. From these facts we conclude that the Atlantic coast Indian was 
inferior in art capabilities to the people of the western mounds, which 
may or may not have antedated them in their occupancy of American 
territory, and that, at one time, the aborigines of New Jersey were, in art 
capabilities, scarcely as far advanced as the reindeer people of the south 
of France-i 

Were we guided by the excellency of workmanship in our estimate 
of the comparative antiquity of stone implements and art productions 
of a Stone-age people, the rude profile carvings, of which but four ex- 
amples have as yet occurred, would be far older than the mounds of the 
Mississippi Valley, or the elaborately carved pipes they contain. As the 
photographic portrait is a later achievement of the ingenuity of man 

" Auc. Stone Imp. of G. 13., j). 203, fig. 154. 
' t Lubbock. Grig, of Civil., Sd etl., p. 30. 

t ]i'orks of art of the cave-dwellers. — " With ' * evidences of easy 

liviug, it is uot surprising to find there was leisure for less necessary work, and that 
spare time found occupation in works of jjleasure, as instanced in the sketches and 
sculpture before alluded to. And it is curious to trace how they passed from the sim- 
ple exercise of industry to ornament, and at last to something of art, for such may well 
be termed the .sculptured poniard handle, representing the figure of a reindeer, and 
which, while clever in its adaptation of the material to the purpose intended, preserves 
at the same time all the characteristics of the animal." (Reli(|uice Aquitanic;e, p. 22.) 

The foregoing remarks are equally applicable to the early Indians of New Jersey in 
matters of art and ornament. They too, notwithstanding frequent wars with neighbor- 
ing tribes, appear to have found time to carve or, at least, shape slabs of compact stones 
into good resemblances of those animals with which they were familiar. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 337 

tlian tlie silhouettes which still adorn niaiiy old walls, so these profile 
carvings should be older than the useful and so ingeniously carved pipes. 
Such, however, is not the case; and the differences in the two classes of 
relics indicate different jieoples as their respective producers — the one 
an older, it may be, but certainly a more advanced people ; the other at 
the very outset, as it were, of human culture. 

"We must conclude, therefore, that the two peoples were wholly unlike 
and independent in origin ; or, originating from a common center, that 
they proved very unequal in their i)rogress in culture. The latter ap- 
pears to be the correct view, inasmuch as in all other respects their stone 
implement productions were identical, both in the variety of form in 
each particular weapon, and the skill exhibited in the flint-chipping art. 

Wo say " in all other respects," because the art capabilities of a i)eo- 
ple are an index to their intellectual advancement. No better guide can 
be had to a i)roper estimate of the relative advancement of a race or 
tribe. More modern, less advanced, Indians, however, have occasion- 
ally i^roved themselves capable of the imitative art to a degree com- 
mensurate with the mound-builders of an earlier date ; and the Chip- 
pewa pipe, figured by Dr. Wilson,* certainly equals any animal 
carving the mounds have yielded, or the even more complicated and 
fantastic illustrations of Babeen pipe sculpture which the same author 
gives us.f 

It is to be regretted that so few examples of this profile-carving have, 
as yet, been met with; and, further, that they should all have come from 
a single limited locality, since this gives rise to the thought that they 
are all the work of some one ingenious savage. 

One of these specimens, a pebble of unusual shape, and one requiring 
but little alteration to make it what it is, can scarcely be considered an 
"animal carving;" but the ingenuity displayed in utilizing nature's 
freaks to secure a result similar to carving, shows skill akin to that 
requisite in carving. 

Figure 177 represents the specimen above referred to as the first exam- 
ple of its kind we have met with. It is a i^late of slaty stone, and has 
a nearly uniform thickness of half an inch. The margins have been 
carefully polished, as also have tlie two surfaces of the specimen, which 
latter, however, are less smooth than formerly, owing to scratching by 
the sand and gravel among which it was found. There is no attempt 
whatever at even an outline drawing of an eye or other feature ; the 
whole attention of the artist having evidently been to correctly outline 
the stone, in which respect he has been successful. The curvature of 
the cranial outline and the neck, and the commencement of the back are 
correct, while the nose, lower jaw, and under outline of the neck are 
equally so. From the highest point of the arch of the cranium down- 
ward the specimen is narrowed along the edge, being thinnest at the 
point of juncture of the neck and back. It is supposed that the animal 

* Prebietoric Man, 2d cd., p, 319, fig. 27. t L. c, p. 320, figs. 28, 29. 

S. Mis. 115 22 



338 ETHNOLOGY. 

intended to be represented by this carving is the seal, of which, at the 
present day, a single one will occasionally wander up the Delaware 
Eiver, one being killed during April of the present year, at Salem, Salem 
County, Xew Jersey. Formerly the seal was not uncommon in Dela- 
ware Bay, and, at the time of the settlement of Littleworth, now Trenton, 
New Jersey, in 1080, they were numerous about the rapids, or so-called 
Falls, of the Delaware. 

This specimen of stone-carving is by far the finest of the three exam- 
ples we have been able to secure, and shows in every detail that much 
care was expended in its production. How a block of stone of its den- 
sity conld have been cut in the age in question is impossible for us to 
determine. We have found nothing in the way of weapon-making tools 
that w-ould answer for such stone-cutting; and it seems incredible that 
it should have been pecked into shape and the margins and surface 
afterward polished. A few fresh fractures of small extent show the 
body of the s.tone to be of a dark lead-blue color, but the surface 
is a dull brown. Upon one side are four irregularly-shaped patches 
of small crystals in a matrix of apparently silicate of lime. These 
have formed upon the specimen after it was lost or thrown aside, 
and indicate considerable lapse of time since the date of its fashioning 
by the aboriginal artist. What could have been the object of a carving 
such as this *? How was it used when finished ? The holes in breast- 
plates and ear-drops explain their nature and the method of utilizing 
them, but in the present instance there is nothing by which to suspend 
the object, nor an indication of any method whereby a handle could 
have been attached, which latter, however, would scarcely have added 
to the value of such a specimen. Again, the aborigines were of too 
migratory a nature for stationary idols or ornaments for the walls of 
their wigwams. That the three examples figured are the work of the 
aborigines, and that they are intended to represent animals, cannot be 
doubted, but as to the meaning of the carvings, and the use to which 
the specimens were put, we can only conjecture. 

Figure 177, 117a is a small, oddly-shaped pebble of a reddish-brown 
color, which, while it originally bore some resemblance to the head of a 
bird, has had that resemblance increased by the rubbing away of certain 
points about the margin, and the grinding of the convex surface on one 
side uutil it was flat, leaving in the center of the worn surfaces a circular 
I)rojection, which correctly represents, in size and position, an eye of a 
bird. The under surface is irregularly concave, and has no such eye- 
trace or other markings upon it.* 

Figure 178 represents the head and neck of a bird-like animal, rather 
than of a bird or mammal exclusively. Were it the only specimen of 
this kind we had seen, wo should doubt the propriety of considering it 
an indication of stone-age art, although it has marks of human work- 
manship in the polished margins at the slope of the back of the head and 

* Figure 177 does uot correctly represent the specimen, the artist having omitted the 
" eye." 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. oo\) 

reck and on tbe lower or basal outline of the specimen. The projecting 
point in front much resembles tbe beak of a bird, and altbough rough in 
finish does not appear to be merely an accidental fracture. Tbis speci- 
men was found within a few yards of figure 170, and we do not doubt 
that it is an unfinished specimen of tbe same nature. Two-thirds of the 
original surface, upon one side, has been broken off in a single jiiece, 
and this newer surface has now nearly the same degree of weathering, 
and is of nearly the same tint as the natural surface of the specimen. 
There are no grooves, scratches, or other markings that appear to have 
been made when the stone itself recieved its present .shape. 

This specimen is a finely grained, compact sandstone, readily scratch- 
ing glass, but is more easily worked than the jasperC?) pebble, figure 
177. With the exceptions of the two portions of the margin above 
referred to, there is no indication of any attempt to polish or smooth 
down the surface of the stone. 

If it be objected that these stone figures are too rudely shaped to be 
considered specimens of animal sculpture, we can only say, in reply, that 
they are not accidentally fractured stones, as shown by their polished 
and ground surfaces at different points. Again, thcj are not more crude 
than those wonderful "animal mounds" mentioned* by Lapham, as 
existing in Wisconsin j and it may not be inappropriate here to refer 
to a figure given by this gentleman, and called " tbe stone bird."' 
Mr. Lapham t remarks: "At Ilustisford a stone was sliowu us, which, by 
the aid of a little imagination, may be supposed to represent the head 
of a bird, and which was held in great veneration by tbe Winnebago 
Indians, who have but very recently been removed from this part of the 
State. It is a gneissoid granite, of accidental form, caused by the 
unequal decay and disintegration of the different layers of which it is 
composed." Here we see that an accidentally shaped stone was vene- 
rated because of some resemblance to a bird ; and if a modern Indian 
could see the resemblance in the case of tbe stone figured by Mr. Lap- 
ham, would it not require a less fertile imagination to see the resem- 
blance in the specimens we have figured, wbich are recognized as 
animal carvings by those who have seen them, and which, unlike the 
Wisconsin stone bird, are not chance shapings but designed cuttings. 

We have in Squier and Davis's} great monograph an account of 
several "singularly sculptured tablets," one of which is figured. "It 
represents a coiled rattlesnake ; both faces of tbe tablet being identical 
in sculpture, exceptiug that one is plane, the other slightly convex. 
The material is a xery fine cinnamon-colored sandstone." We bave 
here a near approach to the general character of our specimen, figure 
17G; but tbe Ohio tablet has elaborate carving upon tbe sides, which 
alone enables the specimen to be recognized as a snake, while in the three 
figures we bave given, tbe recognition of tbe intended likeness to ani- 
mal beads is through the outline alone. 

* Aatiq. of Wisconsin, Smithaon. Contiib., vol. vii. t L. c, p. 51. 

t Anc. Mod. Miss, Valley, p. 27G, fig. 19G. 



340 ETHNOLOGY. 

Mr. Squier* al^io, in bis memoir on the aboriginal monuments of Nevr 
York, figures a terra-cotta head of a fox and two other specimens of an 
indefinite character, which are also more elaborate in the details, but 
not more accurate in outline, than is figure 176 compared with the 
fox-head figured by Mr. Squier, or the two figures 177 and 178 as com- 
pared with the two ruder figures given in the above-mentioned mono- 
graph. We conclude, therefore, that our New Jersey specimens bear to 
those of the West the same relation that the old-time silhouettes bear 
to the modern photograph. 

Considering that the difficulty of shaping hard stone is much greater 
than molding terra-cotta, surely the Xew Jersey outline carvings exhibit 
an equal amount of skill to those described from other States and re- 
quired a greater amount of patience ; but there was little diflerence in 
the capabilities of the aborigines of New York and New Jersey, the ad- 
vantage in most respects being, probably, with the more northern tribes. 

On page 140 we briefly referred to a " slab of hard sandstone," 
■which, it is thought, may properly be called an " animal carving," 
although, on our first examination of the specimen, its outline did 
not impress us as being very animal like. Our impression then was 
that the ground, or semi-polished surfaces upon the edges of the 
specimen, were produced in polishing weapons and repointing them ; 
and, therefore, that the outline of the whole stone was accidentally 
formed. A subsequent examination, however, and a comparison of the 
specimens with the ones already described, added to a better knowledge 
"of true" j)olishing tools, led us to a different conclusion. The stone 
has been split to render it thin enough for ready working, while its 
original (if such there was) resemblance to a small mammal was in- 
creased and rendered somewhat perfect by subsequent grinding and 
polishing. The faint, eye-like depressions make the resemblance to an 
animal more striking and unmistakable. 

In a subsequent chapter, we shall call attention to " pestles," some of 
which have carved heads. They are referred to here, merely to show that 
the disposition to imitate animals by figures in stone is evinced in ways 
other than by " outlines" such as we have figured, and that while these 
outline works are much ruder than the carved head of a wolf upon a 
pestle found in Vermont, they are not probably older, but show that at 
about the same period in the average progress or degree of culture of 
the red man there was the beginning of that art which was but little 
advanced at the period of the later pictorial writings of these same 
people, when a warrior would publish his autobiography by means of a 
long series of grotesque sketches upon his blanket.t 

* Abor. Mou. of New York. Smithson. Contrib., vol. ii, p. 76. 
t Catliu's N. A, Indians, vol. i, p. 148, fig. 65. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 341 

Chapter XIX. 

PIPES. 

lu Eastern and Western stone weapons. and domestic implements there 
is apparently but little difference, except in smoking-pipes, where the 
difference is very great j although the two kinds of pipes, those of 
baked clay and those of stone, both occur in New Jersey. 

Figure 179 represents the common shape of the stone pipes which are 
occasioually picked up in Xew Jersey. This nearly perfect specimen, 
like the majority of pipes of this shape, is made from a fragment of or- 
dinary soapstone, and bears no trace of ornamentation. It is an elon- 
gated oval bowl two and a half inches in length, and a little more than 
one inch in diameter at the mouth and five-eighths of an inch in diam- 
eter at the base. The front of the bowl is somewhat convex in outline ; 
the opposite outline is more nearly straight. A little above the middle 
of the front of the bowl commences a projection a quarter of an inch 
in width and a little less than an inch in length. The hollow of the 
bowl extends throughout its whole length, the opening below being in 
the center of the base. This pipe-bowl was evidently intended to be set 
on a flat, hollow tube, closed at the outer end, and the mouthpiece* 
placed at or made of the opposite extremity. The " projection " w^ould 
be useful in holding the bowl securely to the stem, by affording a hold 
for the cord that wrapped the tube and crossed the upper end of this 
projection on the bowl. 

We have said that figure 179 was the common shape of the stone 
pipes; but the pipes themselves are not common nor abundant, even 
where relics are plentiful. Of the majority of soapstone pipes that we 
have met with, the pattern figured is the prevailing one; but of the 
thousands of relics we have ourselves gathered, or seen in the cabinets 
of others, there were not probably two dozen specimens of stone or clay 
pipes. 

Figure 180 represents a somewhat fragmentary specimen of a 
calumet or pipe of peace, carved from soapstone of even less density 
tban the material of the preceding example. It bears a general re- 
semblance to the calumets figured by Laphamf and Squier|; but in 
no wise approaches the artistic elegance of the mound builders' pipes. 
This specimen, figure 180, consists of a flat stem, one inch wide at the 
bowl, where it gradually narrows toward the end, or mouth-piece termi- 
nation. This stem is of a uniform thickness of seven-sixteenths of an 
inch. The hole for the passage of the smoke is smooth, and decreases 
in caliber as ii nears the opening into the cavity of the bowl. The bowl- 

* We bavo seeu two specimeus of abort, drilled atones, tbat may bavo beeu used aa 
"moutb-pieces," wben a loiijj reed bas bcea used as a "stem." 
*Antiq. of Wisconsin, pp, 83,84. 
t Abor. Mod. New York, p. 7G. 



342. ETHNOLOGY. 

cavity is exactly half an inch in diameter, and half an inch deep. As, 
however, the margin of the bowl is broken throughout its entire extent, 
it is possible that the dei:>th of the cavity may have been greater. This 
form of pipe is not as frequently met with as the preceding one, 
although not what might be called a "rare" pattern. We have seen 
several plain fragments of carved and drilled soft stone, which were 
certainly referable to the stems of this style of pipe. 

Figure 181 represents a form of small clay pipe, of which fragments 
are occasionally found, but very seldom is a perfect or even nearly j)er- 
fect specimen met with. In the splendid cabinet of Michael Newbold, 
esq., of Burlington County, New Jersey, are several fragments of this 
form of pipe, of fine yellow clay, which had been very carefully baked. 
The stems were perfectly cylindrical instead of flat on the under side, as 
is the case with figure 181 ; the bowl, also, of this specimen figured is 
ridged and somewhat flattened upon the sides and front, which gives it 
a much less neat appearance than those referred in the Newbold collec- 
tion or than similar clay pipes found in New York.* 

Figure 182 represents a very large, though roughly made, stone pipe, 
found near the shore of the Delaware Eiver, at Beverly, N. J. It is 
apparently carved out of a serpentine pebble, the bowl pecked out 
and then polished inside and out. The stem is flat, with rounded angles, 
while the whole surface is somewhat polished. The nearly circular bowl 
is two inches in diameter, with sides varying little from an average thick- 
ness of about three-eighths of an inch. The bottom of the bowl and the 
stem, which are continuous and straight, or flat, have not been polished, 
and appear to be the unaltered surface of the pebble of which the pipe 
is made. The only attempt at ornamentation consists of a number of 
oblique lines, pretty deeply cut, which are crossed by similar ones ex- 
tending across the spaces between the long lines. The cross-lines are 
all short, none extending to, or encroaching upon, the others. These 
have been cut with a shari)-i)ointed tool not recognized in any of the 
large series of pointed forms, as drills, &;c., which we have collected. 

There is in the cabinet of Eutger's College, at New Brunswick, N. 
J., a large stone pipe similar to this specimen in every particular, fig- 
ure 182, save that of ornamentation, of which there is none. These 
two specimens are the largest we have seen, that have been discovered 
in the State. "We have heard of the existence of several specimens of 
large stone pipes, some with elaborate carving, but on tracing them up 
they have invariably proved to be either much less "extensive" than 
was represented, or undoubted pipes of the mound-builders, brought 
from the Western States. 

Figure 183 represents an interesting fragment of a " pottery" pipe, 
and is made of the same mixture of clay, shell, and mica as are most of 
the scraps of vessels that we find scattered over fields where Indian 
villages formerly existed. This fragment is unquestionably the front of 

* Squier, 1. c, p. 7G, iigs. 9, 10, 11. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY/ 343 

the bowl, which was qnadraugular instead of circular — a character quite 
uncommou iu the i)ipe-bowls of " i^ottery." 

The amount of surface oruameutation in this fragment is unusually 
gi'eat ; and although composed of straight lines only, ihe human face was 
evidently intended to be represented in the three short transverse lines ; 
the two upper ones representing the eyes, and the lower one the mouth. 
This is the more probable since the lower line is the widest, largest, and 
really somewhat mouth-like iu shape. Besides these three there are 
eight lines, four upon each side, extending obliquely upward and out- 
ward. This fragment measures one inch and one-quarter in width, and 
one inch and an eighth in dej^th. 

While we have been far from successful in collecting an extensive 
series of fine pipes, there is no doubt that large and finely-worked si)eci- 
mens were made by the Indians on the Atlantic sea-board. Such pipes 
have been discovered elsewhere,* and it is fair to ijresume that what is 
occasionally met with iu the Eastern States, in the way of " relics," will 
yet be found somewhere iu New Jersey. Mr. Perkins has described 
" a very pretty pipe" which " was dug up not far from Burlington, 
Yt., and is now in the museum of the University at Burlington." 
It is shaped like a common clay pipe, but the bowl is smaller and thicker, 
and the stem shorter. It is wrought from a piece of dark-clouded gyp- 
sum, and is nicely polished. The bowl * * * is encircled by two rows 
of oblong cavities, about one-fourth of an inch broad, and from three- 
tenths to one-half of an inch long, and one-eighth of an inch deep, no 
two being exactlj^ alike. There are seven of these in the lower row and 
eight in the upper, and they were probably inlaid with some ornamen- 
tal substance." We have quoted this entire description of the Vermont 
pipe for the reason that we remember having seen such a pii)e some years 
ago, which was said to have been found at or near the Delaware Water- 
G ap. 

The comparative rarity of aboriginal smoking-pipesis easily explained 
by the fact that they were not discarded, as were weapons, when 
those by whom they were fashioned entered upon the iron age. The 
advances of the whites in no way lessened the demand for pipes, nor did 
the whites substitute a better-made implement; therefore, the pipes 
were retained, and used until worn out or broken, excepting such as 
were buried with their deceased owners. What was the ultimate fate 
of these can only be conjectured. Certain it is that in every instance 
an Indian grave iu New Jersey does not contain a pipe. If the practice 
of burying the pipe with its owner was common, we must believe that 
the graves were opened and robbed of this coveted article by members 
of the same or some other tribe. A serious objection, however, to this 
supposition is that the stolen pipes would be recognized ; but while this 
is possible, we do not think the fear of detection deterred the ancient 
grave-robber, and, besides, it should be borne iu mind that a pipe could 

* Amur. Nat., vol. v, j). liJ, 



344 ETHNOLOGY. 

be easily altered in its general appearance, and, further, that the great 
majority of pipes were probably of a plain character, no single one being 
especially distinguishable from its fellows. But for the few lines upon 
the specimen figured in No. 182, it would not differ noticeably from that 
in Rutger's College Museum j and might not a dozen others be but fac- 
similes of figure 180 ? 

Chapter XX. 

POTTERY. 

In certain localities, fragments of black, brown, and red pottery are 
almost as abundant as arrow-points in others. Unfortunately, these frag- 
ments are generally too small for determining the shape of the vessels to 
which each belonged ; they are, however, large enough to show one 
characteristic of aboriginal pottery, viz, profuse ornamentation. This 
was principally by lines and dots, but the variety of the combinations of 
these is so inexhaustible that we have seldom met with two fragments, 
not of the same vessel, which were identical. 

The lines and square " dots" have been formed by removing a small 
portion of the clay while soft, and not by mere displacement by pres- 
sure with a cord or sharp stick or bono. The edges are sharp and 
well defined, and never merely elevated ridges, which give the inter- 
vening depressions the appearance of carved lines. 

Figures 184, 185, 18G, and 187 are good examples of the usual "find" 
of pottery -fragments, both as to size and general character of ornamen- 
tation. These specimens are all formed of the blue clay ("triassic"), 
as determined b^^ Prof. T. A. Conrad, of Philadelphia, which underlies 
and constitutes in part the bluff running parallel to the Delaware 
Elver and skirting the meadows from Trenton, N. J., to Bordentown 
and beyond. This clay, which is now used in terra-cotta establishments, 
was not used by the aborigines in its jiure state, but was mixed with 
sand, mica, or pounded mussel-shells, or with all of them. The mixture 
of other materials does not apjiear to have affected the color, since we have 
found pieces of every shade of brown, black, red, &c. Judging from 
the degrees of curvature of even these small fragments, the vessels of 
which they are pieces were originally small, globular, and would hold 
not more than a quart, but usually they were of about two-thirds this 
capacity. 

Figure 188 represents a fragment of pottery peculiarly ornamented. 
Besides a narrow line which is met near the middle of the fragment and, 
at nearly a right angle, by another, showing that but few lines were en- 
graved upon the vessel, there are rows of curious " dots " formed by 
pressing the clay, while soft, with a hollow tube (in this case a spear of 
grass) ; the clay rising into the tube leaves a bead-like formation on the 
pottery. We have not met with any other fragment with bead-like 
markings similar to these, either in rows, as in this instance, or scat- 
tered about. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 345 

Figure 189 is another iustauce of interesting ornamentation. In this 
case the intervening lines and spaces are of equal width, but the de- 
pressions or " lines " are curiously '' broken " by transverse, narrow ridges, 
uniformly distant from each other. These transverse ridges are of the 
same size, distinctly carved or molded, and nearly on a level with the true 
surface of the fragment. The vessel to which this little piece belonged 
was, evidently, broken intentionally, there being, where the fragment 
was found, a mass of blackish powder and more than a quart of pieces, 
all smaller than that in the figure, but equally covered with ornamental 
lines. Although no stone was in the immediate neighborhood of this 
and the other fragments when found, the mass of pieces indicated that 
the pottery was crushed by a large flat stone. 

Figure 190 represents a i^erfect specimen of a small vase, such as is 
occasionally met with in the graves of aborigines, and, if buried by 
themselves, always in the immediate neighborhood of graves of adults. 
This vase measures three and three-fourths inches in height, and is of 
equal width at the mouth, including the flaring of the rim. The clay 
has but a slight admixture of shell, and is identical with much of the pot- 
tery found in fragments upon the surface of the ground. The ornamenta- 
tion is the rudest we have seen. It consists merely of lines in series of 
four each, at an angle with the rim of the vessel and of different lengths, 
the longest being not over one and a half inches. These lines apjiear to 
have been produced by drawing a pointed stick over the clay previously 
to baking. The capacity of this vase is one pint and five fluid-ounces. 
"When taken from the earth it was filled to the brim with a black dust 
which, on examination, proved to be burnt bone and animal matter un- 
mixed with earth. On exposure to the atmosphere this " black " powder 
became gray, and shortly afterward, absorbing moisture very rapidly, 
formed a dull, lead-gray, pasty mass. The top of the vase, as it lay in 
sitUy was covered with a plate of mica about one foot square and half 
an inch thick. Such plates of mica are quite common about the fields 
in the neighborhood of Trenton, but are seldom met with in as large 
size as that covering the buried vase. This vase is in size similar to 
those found in the western mounds,* but is not ornamented with the 
care which distinguishes the latter. It should be borne in mind, how- 
ever, that difference in ornamentation is scarcely a safe guide in the 
separation of pottery into the production of the mound-builders and 
that of the modern Indian. In gracefulness of outline the New Jersey 
vase is the equal of that of the mound-buildcrs, while we have seen a 
drawing of a large vase found in Vermont t wiiich exceeds in elaborate- 
ness of details any figured by Messrs. Squier and Davis. The mound- 
builders were never inhabitants of what is now known as New Jersey 
nor of the State of Vermont, but pottery is sometimes found in these 
sections the equal, in some instances, of the i>ottery of the West in style 
of decoration, wiiile in all cases it is as hard and durable. 

* Anc. Mou. ISIiss. Valley, pp,. 188. 189, pi. xlvl. 
t American Naturalist, vol. v., p. 14, fig. 1. 



346 ETHNOLOGY. 

We Lave seen one example of pottery wliich presented several peculiar 
features 5 it was, however, unfortunately broken up and lost previously to 
our interest in aboriginal remains. It consisted of a quadrangular box of 
black pottery mixed with mica, about fifteen inches long, ten wide, and six 
or seven deep. It was ornamented on all four sides with fine lines, 
closely engraved, and extending from the top to the bottom of the box. 
When taken out of the ground it was full of a reddish powder of a faint 
aromatic odor, and contained many of the smaller bones of a deer, 
{Cariacus virginianus.) These bones had apparently not been exposed 
to heat at any time, but were probably the remains of venison buried 
with and intended as food for the deceased, whose skeleton was found 
within a few feet of the " box.-' 

Of course pottery, in fragments, is most abundant at localities w^here 
the aborigines had their villages, as near Trenton, N. J., but we have 
always found some fragments wherever we have chanced to search for 
relics in general. Especially is this the case along the old " Indian 
trails " or the routes they used for their annual trip to the seashore. 

Under the heading of " pottery," we now call attention to certain 
fragments of vessels which, instead of being formed of clay molded 
into the desired shape, were "pecked" out from a solid stone. When 
we come to the consideration of " corn-mills " we shall find that basins of 
considerable capacity were pecked in stationary rocks, and smaller stones 
were hollowed for portable corn-mills, and therefore it is not strange 
that vessels for other purposes should also have been made. We have 
not met with any perfect specimens of such stone vessels. Our knowl- 
edge of them is based solely on two fragments, one of which we figure. 
It is an ordinary sandstone bowlder, probably of an oval shape; being 
first broken into halves, the broken surfiice has been pecked at until a 
basin of some capacity has been formed. 

Figure 11)1 represents the fragment referred to. The inner side of 
the bowl is noticeable from the fact of its being of a decided red tint, 
which is in marked contrast with the light gray color of the stone itself. 
Along the side of this reddish interior is a deeply cut groove, which ex- 
tends downward a distance of nearly an inch and a half, and then bend- 
ing at a right angle to its former course extends to the broken edge of 
the specimen. To what use such a stone vessel was put can only bo 
conjectured. The other fragment which we have shows even more plainly 
that the vessel has been " pecked " out with a stone hammer, but it 
is so irregular in shape — so fragmentary a fragment — that the indica- 
tions of its having been a portion of a vessel are not as clear or un- 
questioned as are those of figure 191. 

Mr. Evans* says of Great Britain, with reference to vessels of stone 
being found there : " Vessels without handles were also occasionally 
formed of stone. Six or seven of these, of various sizes and forms, were 
discovered in a 'kist-vaen,' in the island of Unst, and are now for 

* Anc Stone Imp. of G. B., p. 403, and fig. 368. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 347 

the most part in tlie British Museum. Four of them were of a rude 
quadrangular form, with flat bottoms, aud from 3J to 7 inches high. 
The other three were ovah They were formed of schistose rock, aud 
some of them still bear traces of the action of fire." Mr. Evans also 
figures a stone cui^, which seems to be but a " restoration" of the frag- 
ment we have figured, aud of that which we have in our cabinet. 

There is really more difference in degree than in kind between 
such stone cups as figure 191 has been, and the " paint-cup " and " corn- 
mills " yet to be described ; in the former, a vessel to hold a liquid has 
been required, and so was pecked at and hollowed out to a greater depth 
than were the mills and paint-cups, which were needed only to reduce 
small portions of grain or lumps of clay to a fine powder. If the red 
color of the inside of figure 191 is a trace of the red paiut which was so 
abundantly used in the toilets of the aborigines, then, indeed, the speci- 
men is a fragment of a "paint-cup," such as we shall more particularly 
describe in the following chapter ; but if such were its use it probably 
is an exceptiomil case, as paint-cups, according to our acquaintance with 
them, were small v^essels for individual use only, and certainly" such a frag- 
ment as figure 191 would hold enough paint to cover the entire body of 
the most stalwart warrior. 

Fragments of the ordinary pottery are frequently abundant in the 
fresh- water or inland mussel-shell heaps, associated with slabs of stone 
and rounded or oval cobble-stones, on the former of which, and by means 
of the latter, the Indians crushed the Uiiios and Anodontas so numerous 
in our rivers and larger creeks. 

Chapter XXI. 

PAINT- CUPS. 

When it is remembered how elaborately the warriors of our modern 
Indian tribes are painted when on the warpath, it is not strange that 
we should find traces of this custom among the relics of the older Stone 
age of New Jersey. The traces to which we refer are certain hollowed 
stones, or diminutive mortars, in which the mineral mass of colored 
claj" was reduced to powder and prei)ared for application to the body. 
Such i)aint-cups or small mortars are iiot common in the localities with 
which we are most familiar. They are usually only water-worn pebbles 
which have had a natural hollow or depression upon one side, which was 
either enlarged at first, or the original hollow was utilized as a paint- 
receptacle, and gradually increased by the rubbing action of the little 
pestle. Messrs. Lartet and Christy have figured a series of mortars 
from the caves and rock-shelters of France. Of these " mortars," wo 
have many identical specimens; but it is curious that the most perfect 
or undoubted [)aint-cn[) in our collection should bo so very similar to a 
specimen which they include among their " mortars " as doubtful. This 
"doubtful" mortar orpaint-cup is described as " a water- worn, irregu- 



348 ETHNOLOGY. 

larly-shaped fragment of soft friable gray sandstone, bearing a part of 
the natural impression of a bivalve shell which had ribs and prickles, 
such as S2)ondylus santoncnsis; but these markings caused by the shell 
have been nearly obliterated, .either by the natural action of water, 
or by artificial rubbing, probably by both. Some slight ferruginous 
stains remain in little hollows in the cavity ; but they may be due rather 
to the imbedding material than to the use of this saucer-like stone as a 
paint-mortar or ocher-pot."* It is safe, we judge, to presume such 
stones to be true " relics " when found associated with others of which 
there can be no doubt. Its i^resence with undoubted relics may have 
been accidental, but probably not, and if brought to a cave-dwelling or 
rock-shelter, it was for the purpose of using it just as has been suggested, 
as a " i^aint-mortar or ocher-pot." 

The similarity of the weapons between the cotemporaries of the rein- 
deer of France and the aborigines of North America has been frequently 
pointed out by the authors of the Eeliquite Aquitanicte. It would seem, 
too, that the custom of painting the face and body was also common to 
the two peoples, if such hollowed stones as Messrs. Lartet and Christy 
have figured from France, and the two figured in this chapter, were 
used, as we believe, for paint-mortars. 

Messrs. Lartet and Christy remark : " With these early cave-dwellers 
the art of painting was, as far as we know, limited to that favorite 
aboriginal color, red. Various pieces of soft red hematite, covered with 
scratches, indicate how thoy scraped off a red powder, which, mixed 
with grease, would furnish as good means of personal adornment as is 
employed by many Indians at the present day."t We should think 
that the finding of the red hematite and the paint-mortars both would 
render the fact of their having painted the face an absolute certainty, 
and that the presence of the mineral indicated the use of the hollowed 
stones as mortars. The particular one we have referred to, as figured 
by Messrs. Lartet and Christy, appears more unquestionably a "mortar" 
than do some of the discoidal stones which have merely flattened sides 
and not a well-marked depression. 

Figure 192 represents a medium-sized paint-cup, made of a water- 
worn pebble. Three and three-fourths inches long by two and one- 
quarter inches wide, this specimen has sides and ends of a uniform 
width of half an inch, giving thereby a large cupshaj^ed depression for 
the total dimensions of the si)ecimen. It may be objected that the size 
of figure 192 is too small for the supposed use. Undoubtedly many 
paint-mortars were larger, but this specimen is not as small as some we 
have found ; and, in favor of the theory of its having been used as a paint- 
cup, is the fact that it was found in a grave, with a series of arrow-points, 
an ax, a knife, and some fragments of pottery. The locally and the 
evidently artificial character of the cup-shaped depression i^rovo beyond 
a doubt that it is an Indian relic; and that its use was for paint- 

* Eel. Aquitan, p. 109, pi. xxiii, fig. 2. * L. c, p. 22. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 349 

mixiug seems more probable than any other that can be suggested. 
Associated with this delicate paiut-cui) was the little club shaped 
pestle, drawn as resting in the cup. It is a pretty pebble, three inches 
jn length, slender and oval at one end, and flat, oval, and double 
the width at the opposite end. This pestle has probably been worn 
away considerably in its use with the accompanying cup. The width of 
the club-like end, and that of the slender stem, seem to agree perfectly 
with the width and depth of the cup's hollow, and the slender portion 
with the points of contact of the rim of the cup and the handle of the 
paint crusher. 

Figure 193 represents a very small paint-cup made from a water 
worn pebble, which has received its present hollow, or cup-shaped 
depression, wholly by jiecking, after the manner of working the 
deep grooves of the common stone ax. This paint-cup is circular in 
shape, being a little flattened on one side only. It is one inch and five- 
eighths in diameter, and has but a depth of three-eighths of an inch at 
the center or deepest part of the depression. There are still marks of 
the stone hammer in this hollow, which, however, feels perfectly smooth 
to the touch, and has the same color and amount of polish as the exter- 
ior surfaces of the specimen. This specimen, like the preceding, was 
found in the grave of a child, with a number of much-decayed bone 
beads (?), and a highly-polished black stone, having a number of small 
holes through it. Reference will be made again to this specimen. 

As in the preceding example of paint-cups, so in this instance, a long, 
slender i^ebble, of considerable polish, and more worn at one end than 
at the other, was found with the cup. The two certainly seem fitted- 
for use with each other. 

Similarly with arrow-heads and skinning-knives, which merge grad- 
ually into spear-heads and ungrooved axes, do these paint-cups or small 
mortars gradually' increase in size until their use as paint-cups becomes 
doubtful and they assume the size, &C.., of corn-mills. We have seen a 
few which were large enough for small corn-mills and yet small enough 
to suggest that at any time masses of red clay sufficient for a party of 
warriors might have been ground in one of them. 

Loskiel says :* " They bestow much time and labor in decorating their 
faces ; laying on fresh paint every day, especially if they go out to dance. 
They suppose that it is very proper for brave men to paint, and always 
study a change of fashion. Vermillion is their favorite color, with which 
they frequently i)aint their whole head. Here and there black streaks 
are introduced, or they paint one-half of their face and head black and 
the other red. Near the river Muskingum, (State of Ohio,) a yellow 
ocher is found, which, when burned, makes a beautiful red color. This the 
Huron warriors chiefly use for paint, nor do they think a journey of one 
hundred miles too long to provide themselves with it. Some prefer blue, 
because it is the color of the sky, when calm and serene, and, being 

• Mission to North American Indians, p. 49, London. 1794. 



350 ETHNOLOGY. 

considered as an emblem of peace, it is frequently introduced as such 
in tlieir public orations. Therefore, when they wish to show a peaceful 
disposition toward other tribes or nations, they paint themselves and 
their belts blue. The figures painted upon their faces are of various 
kinds. Every one follows his own fancy, and exerts his powers of in- 
vention to excel others and have something peculiar to himself. One 
prides himself with the figure of a serpent upon each cheek, another 
with that of a tortoise, deer, bear, or some other creature, as his coat 
of arms and signature." 

We have not been able to determine what minerals were used as 
paint prior to the advent of the European settlers. That it was some 
mineral, naturally red, or made red by burning, we have no doubt, as 
we have found faint traces of a reddish powder in many of the Indian 
graves, which latter are usually only to bo recognized by the black stain 
in the soil — naturally a light-colored sand — by the decomposition of the 
body, or by the relics which they may chance to contain. This reddish 
powder is always, as found, so mixed with the surrounding soil that we 
have not been able to separate a sufficient quantity for conveniently 
determining its composition. It has, however, invariably a marked 
pungent odor, not at all disagreeable. To what extent this may be due 
to chemical action that may have been caused by the decomposition of 
the body, with which the pigment had been buried, it is not possible to 
tell. 

Describing an Indian burial, Loskiel says :* " They used formerly to 
imt a tobacco-pouch, knife, tinder-box, tobacco and pipe, bow and arrows, 
gun, powder and shot, skins and cloth for clothes, painty a small bag of 
Indian corn or dried bilberries, sometimes the kettle, hatchet, and other 
furniture of the deceased, into the grave, supposing that the departed 
spirits would have the same wants and occupations in the land ot souls." 

Seeing that not only paint but such a multitude of other articles were 
placed with the body in the grave, it is not to be wondered at that the 
light-colored soil should be stained black, but that any trace of the red 
paint should now remain. Of course, as the practice of burying the 
paint and other eftects of the deceased with the body is still continued, 
it cannot be doubted that these reddish patches of earth which we have 
described as still existing in the almost obliterated graves of Indians, 
are really deposits of paint, such as Loskiel mentions as one of the list 
of articles usually buried. 

Chapter XXII. 

nOES AND SHOVELS. 

The cultivation of maize or Indian corn was carried on extensively 
by the aborigines throughout the southern, or more properly the cen- 
tral counties of the State. The fertile tract, comprising Burlington 

* L. c, p. 1^0. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 351 

and Monmouth Counties, known as Cream Ridge, was a favorito 
spot with the Indians, as shown by the abundance of reHcs found 
throughout this section, and especially by the occurrence of certain 
implements wholly used in the cultivation of their corn. These im- 
plements, of which there are two varieties, we have designated " hoes 
and shovels," the latter being used by the women in preparing the soil, 
the former to keep down the weeds after the corn had sprouted. 

Implements known as "hoes," both of stone and elk-horn, have been 
figured and described by Prof. Nilsson,* which differ, however, from 
the Kew Jersey specimens in being perforated for the insertion of a 
handle, a feature wholly unknown in Indian antiquities, other than 
as regards thoso used for mere ornamental purposes. The Scandina- 
vian hoes differ principally in being perforated instead of grooved for 
the secure attachment of a handle. Of the use of such " hoes," Prof. 
!N^ilsson says, "It must be acknowledged that if agriculture, as seems 
most probable, consisted originally in burning tracts of forest, and then 
sowing among the ashes, these rude hoes must have been very suitable 
for such operations." 

Figure 191 represents a very beautiful specimen of a New Jersey 
stone hoe. It is admirably ground into proper shape from a light-gray 
sandstone pebble, mineralogically not similar to any other relic in our 
possession, except a corn-mill, to be figured and described in the next 
chapter. This relic is now five and a quarter inches long by a little over 
two and a half inches wide. It was originally much longer, and, by the 
wear it shows, was much used. The under surface was almost perfectly 
flat. The upper or outer surface is ridged, the height decreasing as it 
approaches the front edge of the implement, thus making the greatest 
thickness, one inch and a half at the head, which is separated from the 
body of the implement by two deep grooves, or notches, which do not 
meet on the under or the upper surface; but the ridge that extends the 
whole length of the hoe has a shallow depression where it passes between 
the two side notches. 

This hoe, therefore, has been attached to a handle at right angles to 
the blade, the handle being placed in contact with the hoe at the under 
surface and well lashed by raw-hide strips passing around it and over 
the side notches; or the handle has been split, or a forked stick, the 
ends being drawn about the hoe at the notches, and firmly bound by 
raw-hide strips at the central notch, after the manner of securing han- 
dles to the ordinary grooved cobble-stone ax. The shape of the speci- 
men at once indicates its use as an agricultural implement. We do not 
see the advantage of a modern hoe over this one, except in being lighter 
and less liable to be broken on coming violently in contact with large 
stones. We have seen no other specimen from New Jerse}^ as well 
shaped as that sketched in figure 194, but the few specimens coming 
under our notice were all similarly shaped in the essential parts. 

"On the Stnno Age iu Scandinavia. London, ldG8. P. 74, and pi. viii, ligs. 180, 121, 



N 



352 ETHNOLOGY. 

Professor Eaii, of New York, Las twice publislied* notices of agricul- 
tural implemcDts, which he has called " shovels and hoes," which latter 
bear much resemblance to the example here figured, but differing in 
being chipped instead of ground, or " pecked," and then smoothed, 
either intentionally or by constant use. The hoe figured in Professor 
Eau's later paper (1868) "is seven and a half inches long, nearly six 
inches wide, and about half an inch thick in the middle. The rounded 
part forms a sharp edge. The material of which these implements 
(also, shovels) are made is a peculiar kind of bluish, gray, or brownish 
flint, of slightly conchoidal fracture, and capable of splitting into large, 
flat fragments. I never succeeded in finding this stone in situ. The 
agricultural implements of my collection were all found in Saint Clair 
County, in Southern Illinois." It will here be noticed that the New 
Jersey hoes, while bearing a marked general resemblance to, differ con- 
siderably from, the western forms. The western specimens are all larger, 
or at least broader. The side notches are deeper, and the head is of a 
uniform thickness with the blade of the implement. Mr. Ran further 
says, and our specimen agrees entirely with his statement, that " if the 
shape of the described implements (shovels and hoes) did not indicate 
their original use, the peculiar traces of wear which they exhibit would 
furnish almost conclusive evidence of the manner in which they have 
been employed; for that part with which the digging was done, appears, 
notwithstanding the hardness of the material, perfectly smooth, as if 
glazed, and slightly striated in the direction in which the implement 
penetrated the ground." The New Jersey specimen has the polished 
surface and the striations perfectly, but being of a very different mate- 
rial, the specimen in question probably does not show them as plainly 
as described by Professor Rau. These hoes appear thus far to have 
been overlooked by archaeologists, except as occurring in the West. 
Professor Eau mentions them as "rather scarce, and merely confined to 
the States bordering on the Mississippi Eiver." We have seen none 
from Pennsylvania or the New England States, and, as regards New 
Jersey, they seem to occur only in the favorite corn-fields of the aborigi- 
nes, now Burlington, Monmouth, and Ocean Counties. This hoe, illus- 
trated by figure 194, was kindly presented to the writer by Joseph 
Newbold, esq., of Plattsburgh, N. J. It was the only specimen of hoe 
in his large collection of American antiquities. In the collection of 
Michael Newbold, esq., of the same neighborhood, which is one of the 
finest and largest we have seen, are two implements, bearing much 
resemblance to figure 194, but so much smaller that their use as hoes 
is doubtful. One of them is of serpentine, the other of fine-grained por- 
phyry. That of serpentine measures three and three-fourths inches in 
length, and one inch and seven-eighths in width. The head of this 
small, beautifully shaped, and polished specimen is narrower than the 
blade, which is the case also, though to a much less extent, with the 

• Smithson. Ann. Keps., 1863 and 1868, p. 379, and p. 401. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 353 

hoe figured iu 19-4. The ciitting-edge of the serpentine implement in 
almost as curved as the gouge described in chapter xiv. This peculi- 
arity, however, does not militate against its use as a hoe, although, con- 
sidering its size, such was probably not its use. The porphyry does not 
differ materially from the serpentine example. Professor llau,* in the 
two papers from which we have so freely quoted, iu describing hoes, 
mentions a large oval, flat, flint implement, found by himself only, iu 
the West, which he designates as a shovel. We have seen that the 
Xew Jersey hoes diflered in some resiiects from those the professor has 
figured and described, but no question could arise as to the identity of 
their uses. We will now present figures of "flint" implements bearing 
some resemblance to the "shovels" of Professor Ran, which we believe 
were used as such, although the circumstances under which one was 
found would seem to class it with "implements not in a state of comple- 
tion, but roughly-edged fragments which were destined to be made into 
arrow and spear heads at some future time." We cannot think this of 
the examples we have figured, although they certainly do not exhibit at 
their front edges a high iiolish and striation, the result of use as shovels 
and as hoes. Shovels of sandstone also occur, in New Jersey, a foot or 
more in length, and six or seven inches wide. These are carefully 
chipped, flat upon one side, and have a less regularlj^ oval outline than 
the jasper examples. We have seen that the jasper lance-heads are re- 
produced in this common sandstone, iu a less careful manner; and so is 
it with the shovels of sandstone, as compared with those of jasper. 
These, like all other forms of relics, also vary iu size, but we have met 
with none that were too small for practical purposes. 

Figure 195 represents a beautiful specimen of chipped jasper which 
we have twice referred to elsewhere, once as a lance-headt and once as a 
hatchet ;f but which, we now fully believe, was not designed as either, 
but as a shovel. It was, however, never used. It is one of a hundred 
and fifty which were discovered in iflowing a piece of newly-drained 
meadow near Trenton, N. J., in 18G0, and is shorter and broader than 
the others, which might have been hatchets, war-club teeth, or lance- 
heads, probably some for one purpose and some for another. They were 
certainly aUJinuhecl specimens, being carefully chipped to sharp edges, 
many of them having well-defined points and bases. None were as crude 
as a " rudely-shaped flint article * * * discovered * * * on 
the bank of the Mississippi, between Saint Louis and Carondelet," and 
figured by Professor Kau. § Most of these buried jasper specimens, when 
discovered, had their points up, being surrounded by a suflicient num- 
ber of the series to wall in and hold in position those that were erect. 
We stated in the Naturalist that we had not met with any isolated speci- 

»L. c, 1863 and 1868. 

tAbbott on " Lance-hcads," in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Philadelphia, 18G3, p. 278. 

t Stone Age in New Jersey ; American Naturalist, vol. vi, p. 155. 

$ Smitli. Report for 1868, p. 405, fig. 1. 

S. Mis. 115 23 



354 ETHNOLOGY. 

mens similar to those in this " deposit;" but since then we have found 
three in widely different localities, two of which were of the lance-head 
pattern, if not unquestionable examples of that weapon ; the other was 
a shovel, similar in all its details to figure 195. This collection, which 
was of great interest as a whole, was unwisely divided soon after its 
discovery ; but the bulk of the series formerly in the museum of the 
Philadelphia Academy, has fortunately been placed for safe-keeping 
with the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia, where the 
specimens are open to examination. 

On comparison with the measurements given by Professor Kau, figure 
195 will be found to be much smaller than the western specimens, its 
greatest width being three and three-fourths inches, its total length six 
inches, while the western specimens measure " above a foot in length, a 
little more than five inches in its greatest breadth, and is about three- 
quarters of an inch thick in the middle;" but just as our hoes, though 
considerably the smaller, are yet unquestionably " hoes," so it is equally 
probable that such a specimen as figure 195, though much smaller than 
the western examples, is a shovel. In ividth, there is no important vari- 
ation in these specimens, but as there is a decided difference in the depth 
of the soil in the Mississippi Kiver bottom-lands, as compared with that 
of the corn-grounds of New Jersey, this may account for the difference 
in their length. 

Figure 196 represents a large " fl.int implement " of " shovel " shape, 
carefully chipped from yellow jasper, measuring nine inchesand aquarter 
in length, by five inches and a quarter in greatest width. It is some- 
what more pointed at one end than at the other, but is too broad and 
blunt to have been put to any other use, and too finished in appearance 
to warrant the idea of being unfinished. This very large specimen of 
jasper chipping was presented to the East India Marine Society at Salem, 
Mass., by William Story, esq., and was found in New Jersey so long 
ago as 1824. It is much larger than any specimen we have found or 
seen in this State, but otherwise is identical with such as figure 195 and 
the lance-head figured in chapter vi, figure 35. Professor Kau men- 
tions* with reference to several of the agricultural implements found 
at East Saint Louis, that " their material is a yellowish-brown variety 
of the flint" to which he has already referred. In shape they corre- 
spond with the tools of the same class i)reviously described by him ; 
most of the shovels, however, instead of having the end opposite the 
cutting-part worked into a rounded edge, terminate in a more or less 
acute angle. This answers admirably for a description of this specimen 
from New Jersey, figure 19G, which is a new shovel, not having been 
worn and striated, as used shovels of flint always are ; but the base of 
this specimen would soon become " perfectly smooth, as if glazed, and 
slightly striated in the direction in which the implement penetrated the 
ground." 

* L. c, 1868, p. 403. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 355 

All the shovels from Xew Jersey, that we liave seen, were from local- 
ities where the aborigines cultivated maize ; the jasper specimens from 
Mercer County, exclusively, and those of sandstone and slate from 
Burlington, Monmouth, and Ocean Counties. There may be an excep- 
tion in ligure 154, which is simply labeled " oSTew Jersey," in the Salem 
collection, it not being known from what part of the State the specimen 
came. 

In the collection of Michael Newbold, esq., is one specimen of shovel, 
which in finish, shape, and dimensions, is identical with that figured by 
Professor Ran, in the Smithsonian Annual Report ; but is of sandstone 
instead of " flint" or jasper. It was found in the very richest locality 
for Indian agricultural relics in this State. 

Mr. Evans, in the fourth chapter of his work, has described in detail and 
figured many specimens of so-called " chipped or rough-hewn celts," which 
have every appearance of being " shovels" such as we have described; 
or our shovels are " celts." Certainly they could not have been put to 
a cutting use, while they are unnecessarily large for bone-splitting. Mr. 
Evans himself remarks of some of these celts, '^as has already been 
suggested, it is by no means improbable that some of these ruder un- 
polished implements were employed in agriculture; like the so-called 
shovels and hoes of flint of North America, described by Professor 
Rau." 

Considering that the polished celts are quite as abundant in those 
localities where implements of this character occur at all, it seems fair 
to presume that the "chipped or rough-hewn" specimens were thus 
made for some particular purpose, and not that they were rejected spe- 
cimens, intended to be polished but for some reason thrown aside. 
These chipped " celts" such as we have figured under different names, 
as suggested by their size, are all carefully shaped and finished, but 
have no polished surface, and yet the art of polishing stones was well 
known to the Indians, as illustrated in the beautiful " skinning-knives " 
we have figured, and which would be considered as " polished celts" in 
England. 

Mr. Evans does not figure any specimen of " rough-hewn celt" as 
large as the brown jasper shovel, figure 190, which bears more resem- 
blance to many of the "drift implements" of France than any other 
American " chipped flint " we have wseen, and exceeds in size the river- 
drift implements, figured by Mr. Evans; the nearest approach to it 
being his figure 472, from Midford llill, Salisbury.* 

Figure 196a represents a specimen of agricultural implement closely 
allied in general appearance to the "rude implements" in chapter I L 
It is a rudely-formed instrument for digging or hoeing roots or cultivated 
corn ; is of sandstone and chipped over the greater portion of its sur- 
face, with one side, throughout its whole length, more rounded and even 
than the other, as though it formed the back to a rudely-edged blade. 
* Auc. Stone Imp. of Gr. Br., ji. 554. 



356 ETHNOLOGY. 

The width of the implement decreases somewhat at one end, giving the 
narrower portion the appearance of being itself a handle for the instru- 
ment. The total length of the specimen is nine and seven-eighths inches. 
The width, for two-thirds of the length, varies but little from three 
inches. The width of the "handle" or narrower end is within a trace 
of two inches. The broad end, or that opposite the handle, is chipped 
from each side about equally, but on one side of the specimen, at this 
end, there is a more uniform slope, and a degree of smoothness which 
indicates a rubbing motion at this point, as in digging in loose soil. If 
held by the so-called "handle" or narrow end, with the smooth side of 
the opposite end dotvn, it will be evident that this instrument was in all 
probability used as a spade ; if held with the handle from and the smooth 
end toward the person, then the implement becomes a hoe. In either 
case the polished end is thereby easily explained ; otherwise, it is inex- 
plicable and the rude implement is an enigma. This implement was 
plowed up in a field from which a majority of the si)ecimens figured 
in this volume were obtained ; and, although from this locality some 
truly rude implements have been secured, yet we have not considered 
this as belonging to that more archaic class of stone implements, 
although so greatly resembling them in general appearance and work- 
manship, and being identical as to mineral material. "SYe ourselves 
have no doubt that its use was to dig up those roots and bulbs which 
the Indian used as food; or it may be that, with this and similar 
implements, the ground was prepared for corn-planting, and, as we have 
shown, may be called a shovel or a hoe in accordance with the manner 
ner in which it is held. 

Of the Delaware and Iroquois Indians Loskiel* mentions that "they 
used formerly the shoulder-blade of a deer, or a tortoise-shell sharpened 
upon a stone, and fastened to a thick stick, instead of a hoe 5" and we 
readily see, on comparing such "hoes" with the one of stone, which we here 
figure, that the latter is fully as capable of doing the same work, and of 
doing it as well ; and we doubt if there was as much Avork in llaking fig- 
ure 196a into its present shape as there would be in sharpening a tortoise- 
shell or a bone by rubbing, and then fastening the " blade" to a thick 
stick. 

We have seen that among the rude implements of chapter II, was 
one which we considered as probably an agricultural tool 5 but we must 
limit its agricultural use to that of merely digging such roots as were 
used as food by the i)rimitive people of this region. In the implements 
which have been described in this chapter, we see a wider range of work 
intended in their manufacture, even including figure 196a ; all of them 
being designed for use in the cultivation of vegetables and grain, as 
well as in the mere gathering of the latter when fully grown. We have 
seen also that, according to Loskiel, both bone and shell implements 
were formerly used, and this explains why stone hoes and shovels are 

* Loskiel, 1. c, p. 66. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY, 357 

not abundant, as they certainly should be, considering the amount of 
maize grown, had stone been the only material out of which agricultural 
inaplements were fashioned. 

Chapter XXIII. 

CORN-MILLS, MORTARS AND PESTLES. 

The Indian women, upou whom fell all the drudgery of aboriginal 
ife, reduced the hard kernels of maize to coarse meal by pound- 
ing them in hollows of rocks, natural or artificial, with globular peb- 
bles, or with long cylindrical stones, carefully chipped for the purpose, 
and known as pestles. Wooden mortars and pestles also were used. 
We have, perhaps, made a distinction where none exists, in saying "corn- 
mills" and "mortars," but it appears proper to make this distinction, as 
the plan i)ursued in meal-making in the two varieties really differs. By 
corn-mills, we mean small, portable bowlders, that have a shallow hol- 
low pecked in them, and with which were used oval pebbles held in the 
band and revolved around the hollow or basin of the mill. This motion 
ground the corn into coarse meal. By mortars, we refer to the deeper 
hollows, or basins, which were made in permanent rocks, and with which 
were used the long, slender, cylindrical pestles, which 'pounded the grain 
into meal, or, if used for grinding^ were held upright in these deeper 
basins and a revolving motion given to them. The vast majority of the 
pestles which we have gathered were polished upon the end only, show- 
ing that this part alone of the implement was made use of. 

Somewhat south of a line separating New Jersey into its upper hilly 
and lower level portions, a very marked peculiarity occurs with refer- 
ence to corn-mills and mortars. In the northern or upper section of 
the State, where rocks in situ abound, the large flattened stones with 
cup-shaped depressions (corn-mills) are rare, while deep basins hol- 
lowed in immovable rocks are very numerous, which is evidence that 
in the rocky sections of the State the site of a village was chosen with 
reference to the "mill." Throughout the lower part of the State, on the 
contrary, rocks in situ are not at all abundant, while in many sections 
they are entirely absent, especially those suitable for " mills," and here are 
found stones weighing twenty or more pounds which were brought from 
a distance ; a receptacle was first chipj)ed on one side, which gradually 
by use became both deep and smoothly worn. The largest of these 
portable corn-mills that we have seen was a bowlder of conglomerated 
sandstone and iron-ore ; it was a cubical mass, two feet by nineteen 
inches on the upper surface and twenty inches in height. The " basin" 
measured nine inches in diameter by six in depth. 

Figure 197 represents a fine example of the small mortars, or portable 
corn-mills. It is a flat, triangular piece of sandstone, somewhat less 
than nine inches along each side. The upper surface has been ground 
out until a depression was formed about an inch deep. Associated with 



358 ETHNOLOGY. 

it was figure 198, an ordinary water-worn pebble. The under side of 
this stone is worn smooth by rubbing against the sides and bottom of 
the basin of the corn-mill. 

Of the large stationary mortars, but little can be said that has not 
already been mentioned in reference to the portable examples. They 
are generally larger in diameter and of greater depth, and could be 
used only with the long pestles. The vast majority of these stationary 
mortars are natural " pot-holes ;" possibly, in some cases, deepened iu- 
tentionally, or by long usage in crushing corn. Such a " pot-hole," used 
as a mortar, formerly existed in a large glacial bowlder in Centre street, 
Trenton, N. J. (Figure 199.) That this was used as a " pot-hole" is evi- 
denced by the circumstance that on excavating to remove the rock, 
several broken i)estles were brought to light, also a stone ax and several 
dozens of spear and arrow heads of various sizes. 

" Hunter informs us that in some of the Indian villages visited by 
him, there were one or two large stone mortars for pounding corn, which 
were public property. These were placed in a central part of the village, 
and were used in rotation by the different families."* 

Wooden mortars were also used by the aborigines, stumps of hard- 
wood trees being worn off and hollowed out. With these a stone pestle, 
sometimes suspended to an elastic branch of a tree, was used ; but it 
would seem that such a mortar, necessarily yielding to the blows of a 
stone pestle, would but very slowly reduce corn to meal. 

As even the smaller of these corn-mills are quite heavy, and the true 
mortars, of course, immovable, it is probable that two stones, of moder- 
ately smooth surface, were used as a " corn-mill " when merely a dish of 
mush or a cake was demanded. While there were a few permanent 
towns, the great bulk of the aborigines were constantly changing their 
quarters, and we doubt, therefore, if the majority of their corn was 
ground either in portable corn-mills or stationary mortars. Besides 
maize, other articles of diet were reduced in the " corn-mills." Loskiel 
states that they grind the maize " as fine as flour by means of a wooden 
pestle and mortar j" so, possibly, the stone mortars were intended for 
other articles, such as shell-fish, nuts, and berries. 

Of the Delaware Indians t the same author says : "They are fond of 
muscles and oysters, and those who live near an oyster-bed will subsist 
for weeks together upon them. They also eat the land-tortoise, which 
is about a span broad, and rather more in length ; and even locusts are 
used for food. These come frequently in large swarms, covering and 
destroying even the bark of the trees." 

As the oysters and muscles were also dried in large quantities for 
winter use, it is very probable that portable corn-mills were used to 
reduce the dried shell-fish to a sort of powder or pulp. This, mixed 

* Flint-Chips, p. 54G, quoting from Huuter's Manners and Customs of Indian 
Tribes, p. 269. 

t Mission to North American Indians, p. G7. London : 1794. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 3-59 

with the corn-meal, made a dongb, or batter, not unlike the modern 
"fritters." It was a common practice with the Indians to mix other 
articles of food with the meal made from maize, and for this both corn- 
mills and mortars are admirably adapted. Loskiel mentions their 
mixing dried bilberries with corn-meal, and also smoked eels chopped 
fine. 

Pestles, very abundant throughout the whole State, are those long, 
cylindrical stones, which, as a class, have been chipped, or chipped and 
ground, until their length is many times greater than their diameter. 
Of course, so simple an instrument will not vary much except in size. 
We have seen none in New Jersey showing any attempt at ornamenta- 
tion. Mr. Perkins,* describing some Indian relics from Vermont, in 
speaking of pestles, says : " I have seen only one that had any kind of 
ornament upon it. This is a large one, over two feet long, in the 
museum of the University of Vermont. It is cylindrical, as usual, 
and is rounded at one end, while the other is carved to resemble the 
head of some animal — it may be a wolf." Mr. F. W. Putnam, in a 
foot-note, referring to the above, adds : '' In the collection of the New 
York State museum at xVlbany, there is a long ' pestle,' of identical pat- 
tern and having the same rough carving as the one described from the 
Burlington museum. These are the only ones that have come under my 
observation having the handle carved to represent an animal, though 
most of the longer implements of this character have a knob at the 
handle, as if for the purpose of suspension." We have seen pestles 
from New Jersey twenty-five inches in length, but all are plain through- 
out ; not a single example, with even " a knob at the handle," having 
occurred in any collections in this State which we have visited. 

Figure 200 represents an excellent average specimen of the stone 
pestles as found in New Jersey. This example measures seventeen and 
a half inches in length and nearly eight inches in circumference. It is 
somewhat polished and beveled at either end, which would indicate that 
the ends were used in the deep mortars, and not the sides, by rolling in 
the saddle-shai)ed corn-mills. There is no indication whatever of the 
sides having been used, they being now as rough, or nearly so, as when 
the implement left the hands of its maker. The marks of the stone- 
hammerare plainly visible even to the very ends of the specimen, showing 
that a great amount of labor was expended in producing the implement. 
Its weight is seven pounds, enough to make it a cumbersome article for 
carriage. As such pestles were useful only where there were stationary 
mortars, it is probable that this and allied specimens were used princi- 
pally in the permanent towns, as, for instance, the one where Trenton, 
N. J., now stands, which, according to Uaeckwelder, was the headquar- 
ters of a great chief. Figure 200 was found within a mile of the big 
mortar we have mentioned as in Center street. Wo have, however, 
seen several fine specimens of long and heavy pestles in the cabinet of 

* Amer. Nat., vol. vi, j). 12. 



360 ETHNOLOGY. 

Michael JSTewbold, esq., of Burlington County, New Jersey, which were 
found in the immediate ueigborhood of his residence; and here the 
small portable corn-mills are quite abundant, and were probably used 
solely in reducing grain to meal. This ftict somewhat induces that col- 
lector to believe that these long " pestles " were in reality war-clubs ; 
but we do not think it can be shown that they were ever used as such. 
Neither does the fact that Indians now use "wooden clubs of a very simi- 
lar shape and of about the length of figure 200 favor the belief that these 
so-called pestles were used as clubs. Indeed, the largest corn-mills we 
have seen in Burlington County could not be well employed in the ab 
sence of a pestle, as, for instance, the one we have described in this 
chapter, the basin of which is nine inches in diameter and six inches 
deep. 

Figure 201 represents a second example of a long pestle, with features 
that separate it widely from that shown in figure 200. It measures sev- 
enteen inches in length, lacking one-eighth of an inch, and, instead of 
being a uniform cylinder, as in the former instance, (figure 200,) is flat- 
tened along its whole length, giving it a width nearly double its thick- 
ness. Although smoother than the preceding specimen, it shows the 
marks of the stone-hammer very plainly, except at the ends, which are 
smoothed but not polished, and perfectly flat and square. There is a 
slight variation in the width at the two ends, the specimen gradually 
widening from the " handle " to the pestle end. Examples of this kind 
appear to be very uncommon : of the two hundred and thirty pestles we 
have, and of those we have seen in other collections, we have not met 
with a duplicate of this. Schoolcraft* has figured one that is similar 
in all respects to ours; and this is the only illustration we recall of such 
an one being found elsewhere. It may be, however, that we have merely 
failed to meet with them, and that they are not very rare. This flat- 
tened pestle, figure 201, weighs but five pounds and a half, and would 
make a far better " war-club " than the preceding specimen, or any of 
the heavier, cylindrical examples ; but in the hands of an expert Indian 
even, a powerful blow could not be readily struck with such an instru- 
ment, except the object were quiet, while as to throwing them, we do 
not believe it was done, or, if it was, it was not a customary thing in 
aboriginal warfare. In case of surprise, these pestles might have been 
used for defense. 

Figure 202 represents a very common style of small pestle, of which 
we have gathered a large series. They are cylindrical water- worn peb- 
bles, such as are abundant'in the bed of the Delaware Kiver, at and 
above Trenton, N. J., measuring from eight inches to a foot in length, 
and from two and a half to three inches in diameter. These pestles are 
not chipped, pecked, or polished into shape, or altered in any way, except 
that from two-thirds to three-fourths of their length is split ofi"; the 
splitting ending abruptly at what is apparently an actual cut into the 
body of the stone. 

• N. A. Indians, vol. 1, p. 8C, pi. 21, fig. 1. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 361 

Such a pestle as this shown in figure 202, would be well adapted, as a 
small war-club, either to be retained in the hand, or thrown, as were the 
smaller axes or tomahawks ; but that it is a pestle seems more probable, 
inasmuch as the handle is the only portion of the implement showing 
any indication of polish, which it is not as likely would be the case were 
the specimen a club. Moreover, the extremity of the globular end is 
somewhat battered, showing that contact with another stone had been 
frequent. 

Pestles, as a class, vary much in size. The longest we have met with 
was twenty-five inches in length. The shortest are those little, slender 
stones used to reduce red clay to paint-powder, in the stone cups which 
we have described. We have not seen any with flaring bases, such as 
those figured by Squier and Davis,* of which the description reads, 
" occasionally they are elaborately worked, but most are rude." 

Chapter XXIV. 

THE POGGAMOGGON AND NET-SINKERS. 

With the one exception of arrow-heads, no class of relics is so abun- 
dant as the grooved globular or ovoid pebbles, known by many names, 
but which we have designated by the term " poggamoggon," as such 
stone implements are called by the present Shoshone Indians.t 

Figure 203 gives an accurate representation of an average specimen. 
Some of them are smaller, but none noticeably larger. In finish they 
vary much, the extremes being a rough pebble with an irregularly 
"pecked" groove, and a polished pebble with the groove accurately 
made and smooth. The absence of battered surfaces at the ends seems 
to indicate that they were never used as hammers ; but, as it has been 
suggested, they were weights for fishing-lines. 

Professor Xilsson, to whose work we have so often referred, says of 
specimens of this kind 4 "Those ancient j^^MWwie^s which occur most 
commonly are * * * oval, or ovally rounded, and with a groove 
round the middle." He figures such, (pi. xi, fig. 217,) and says of it: 
It has " undoubtedly been a plummet — it was brought from Pennsyl- 
vania."§ This specimen is not grooved entirely round it, but, according 
to the figure, is notched rather than grooved. Such specimens from 
IS'ew Jersey we will notice presently. They are always ruder than 
figure 203. There can be no doubt that the grooved stones, similar to 
figure 203, are used as plummets in Greenland. Professor Nilsson 
remarks: II "1 was some years ago informed by a person who has long 
resided in Greenland, how the stones were formed which were used hy 

* Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley ; p. 220, fig. 118. 
t p]xp. up Missouri, vol. 1, p. 425, by Lowis and Clarko. 
X Nilssou, Stone Age in Scand., p. 25. 
$ L. c, p. 25, (foot-note.) 
. L. c.,p.25. 



362 ETHNOLOGY. 

the natives as plummets. He sketched one. Subsequently, a student 
presented me with a stone of exactly the same shape as that represented 
in the sketch just mentioned. This stone was found in the earth in the 
province of Blekinge, and has evidently been used as apUimmct.^^ 

Mr. John Evans* figures a grooved pebble very large in comparison 
with our New Jersey specimens, as a " grooved hammer," (?) and says of 
it and similar ones, " They were originally regarded as stone-hammers, 
but such as 1 have examined are made of a softer stone than those 
usually employed for hammers, and they are not battered or worn at the 
ends. It seems, therefore, probable that they were used as sinkers for 
nets and lines, for which purpose they are well adapted, the groove 
being deep enough to protect small cord around it from wear by friction." 
Our i^ew Jersey specimens generally are hard enough for hammers, 
but are too small, and, like the English specimens already noticed, are 
free from battered ends. The main difficulty, we think, in considering 
them as net- weights or net-plummets, is the absence of any proof that 
the American Indians ever used a net in fishing. 

Loskielt describes the fishing methods of the Delawares and Iroquois, 
but says nothing of nets. His words are : 

" I am now to describe one of the most favorite diversions of the In- 
dians next to hunting, namely, that of fisMiuj. Little boys are even 
frequently seen wading in shallow brooks, shooting small fishes with 
their bows and arrows. 

" The Indians always carry hooks and small harpoons with them, 
whenever they are on a hunting party ; but at certain seasons of the 
year they go out puri)osely to fish, either alone or in parties. They 
make use of the neat and light canoes made of birch-bark, * * * and 
venture with them into spacious rivers." 

Loskiel describes a method of shad-fishing similar to that adopted by 
the early settlers at Trenton, as detailed in the first chapter of this 
volume. Having mentioned the habit of providing themselves with 
hooks, and noting, also, that deep-river fishing was customary among 
the Indians, we see that a suitable "sinker" should also be provided, 
and we think there can be no doubt that some, at least, of these grooved 
pebbles were used as such. We say " some of these grooved pebbles," 
since we believe they are separable into two classes; those rough and 
only grooved by pecking a slight hollow around them, and those ground 
over their whole surface, and having a wider, semi-polished, and uni- 
formly deep and wide groove. Figure 203 belongs to this latter class. 
The amount of work that has been expended upon some of these grooved 
pebbles, as mentioned, and the description of certain weapons now or 
formerly in use by savage races, induce us to believe that such a stone 
implement as figure 203 was used much after the manner of a modern 
slung-shot. 

* Anc. stone Imp. of G. B., p. 211, fig. 159. 
t Mission to N. A. Indians, p. 95. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. dbo 

Lewis and Clarke* describe a weapon in use among tlie Shoshone 
Indians as follows : 

" The poggamoggon is an instrument consisting of a handle twenty- 
two inches long, made of wood, covered with dressed leather, about the 
size of a whip-handle. At one end is a thong of two inches in length, 
which is tied to a round stone weighing two pounds, and is held in a 
cover of leather. At the other end is a loop of the same material which 
is passed round the wrist so as to secure the hold of the instrument, 
with which they strike a very severe blow." 

In this description we notice that a thong is tied about the stone, and 
to secure it a shallow groove would be desirable, if not necessary. Such 
a groove we have in the larger, b(itter-made grooved pebbles we have 
described, and although our Xew Jersey specimens do not reach two 
pounds in weight, they are generally larger than the roughly-finished 
specimens. 

3Ir. George C. Musters t has given us a most interesting account of 
the weapons and hunting implements of the Tehuelche Indians, and m 
his description of the " bolas " now in use by these savages, refers to 
ancient bolas, which seem to be identical with the grooved pebbles, or 
" net- weights," that we have described. Mr. Musters writes : " Ancient 
bolas (globular stones) are not unfrequently met with. These are highly 
valued by the Indians, and dili'er from those in present use hy having 
grooves cut around them, and by their larger size and greater weight." 
There is no reason for believing that the Patagonian bolas were ever 
in use among the Xorth American Indians ; but it is possible that the 
simplest form of such a weapon, a globular stone with a cord attached 
— the Bola lierdida of the Tehuelches — may have originated at some 
central i^oint, say Brazil, and thence developed into the ordinary two 
and three balled bolas of Patagonia and the poggamoggon of the north- 
ern continent. Nevertheless we see nothing objectionable to the view 
that these two forms may have arisen separately, the country and game 
in each case suggesting, in the one the bola, in the other the poggamog- 
gon ; and, in the absence of a knowledge of metals, what was more 
natural than to choose a globular i)ebble, and to groove it in order to se- 
cure the heavy weight to a flexible cord or handle ? 

As there are simpler forms of "worked" pebbles, which in our opin- 
ion were used as " sinkers," as well as the rougher specimens of grooved 
globular pebbles, we have assumed that specimens such as figure 203 
were used as weapons allied to or identical with the poggamoggon. 
Other uses, however, may have been found for these same globular stones ; 
for instance, we lind in Schoolcraft's work an illustration of a war-club 
with such a small round stone inserted in a notch in the end of the club, 
giving the completed implement the appearance of an ordinary wrench 
with a small object held in its jaws. 

* Exp. up the Missouri, vol. i, page 415. Phihulel. 1814. 
t At liorae with the Patagoniaus, p. lOG. 



364 



ETHNOLOGY. 



Having divided the grooved globular stones into weapons — the pog- 
gamoggon (?) and sinkers for fishing-lines — we would now call attention 
to a more primitive implement, "which we have no doubt was used 
wholly as a sinker. Very probably such a sinker was improvised just 
before starting out into the river or lake ; and again, as the globular 
form is preferable, not being as likely to be caught by snags or clefts in 
sunken rocks, it may be that a few flat stones were carried in the canoe, 
so that if the good sinker were lost, a temporary one could be readily 
provided. 

Figure 204 represents an ordinary specimen of these flat, oval-outlined 
stones, with a well-defined notch chipped on each side, these notches be- 
ing always opposite each other. No care appears to have been taken in 
choosing the pebbles, other than that of not having them too thick ; in 
thickness they vary little from about half an inch. 

Figure 205 represents about the maximum size of these flat, side- 
notched sinkers. It measures a little over 4 inches in length and 2 
inches in breadth. The notches are always in the middle of the speci- 
men, so that the implement is balanced when suspended by a cord pass- 
ing around them. 

The specimens of this class of sinkers vary but little in weight, but 
curiously enough, and in confirmation of their suggested use, we have 
noticed that the heavier specimens are found about the Delaware Eiver 
shore, where the current is strong, and the smaller, lighter ones about 
the creeks, and where the current is scarcely noticeable. About the up- 
lands, where all relics are mingled together in the soil, both styles and 
all sizes and weights of sinkers are, of course, found together, no single 
form predominating, in a locality like the site of an old village. 

We have never met with a sinker like those figured in 204 and 205 
with four notches, or with the globular specimens having more than 
one groove, described by Professor Nilsson as found in Scandinavia. 

Chapter XXV. 

STONE IMPLEMENTS OF UNKNOWN USES. 

Our knowledge of the functions of stone implements is, as yet, too im- 
perfect to enable us to determine in every instance the use to which 
particular forms were put. A doubt as to their design is still connected 
with some of the simpler forms, and it is, therefore, not strange that in 
every large collection there should be a few specimens about which 
nothing can be positively determined concerning the purpose for which 
they were made. 

Figure 206 represents an excellent example of a highly-polished horn- 
stone pebble, which has been cut off square at one end and worn to a 
blunt but highly-polished edge along the curved margin. This would 
afford a fine specimen of what we have denominated "skinning knives,'' 
were the edge sharp. (See chap, xi.) As it is, however, the specimen 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 365 

may have been used as such, the incisions in the skin being previously 
made with a flint knife. 

Since the publication of Mr. Evans's volume, to which we have referred 
so frequently, it seems more probable that it was used in rubbing down 
skins in the process of their i^reparation for clothing. The shape and 
size of the stone, its high polish, and prevalence among the relics that 
characterize the sites of villages, seem certainly to indicate that it was 
a domestic implement. 

Figure 207 represents another example of polished pebble, that has 
been altered little, if any, in shape. A noticeable feature is in its being 
perforated by five small holes, which are natural, however, being thread- 
like veins of softer mineral which have been drilled out. One of these 
perforations occurring near the margin of the stone, the stone itself has 
been worn off at that point until much thinner than elsewhere, and the 
hole then enlarged by a very slender stone-drill. A cord was passed 
through this hole to suspend the imi)lement or ornament. 

If an implement, this specimen was used in the same manner as the 
preceding one. The curved outline is of about the same thickness as 
figure 200, and appears, like that, to be more highly i^olished than the 
other portions of the stone. Either as a "skinning-knife" or a skin- 
dresser, it is as available as the preceding example. 

Professor Nilsson* has figured and described what he terms a " stretch- 
ing implement," to which class of stone implements both figures 20G and 
207 may belong. He says of the illustration which he gives, "The widened 
part, representing the edge, has been rounded ofl' by constant icear, prob- 
ably from being rubbed against leather or something of that kind. A 
person who has lived many years as a mechanic in Greenland, thinks he 
has discovered a great resemblance between this stone implement and the 
bone implement, provided with a handle, which is there used for stretch- 
ing skins in order to give them the requisite softness. A somewhat 
similar stretching implement of iron is still used in those parts of Scania 
where the winter dress of the peasantry consists of sheep-skin coats.'' 
^Ve can readily see that the specimens we have figured, although much 
smaller, could be used in just such manner as Professor Nilsson describes ; 
and as the deer-skin was the principal material for clothing, these stones 
may have been used by laborious rubbing with the rounded edge to 
render the hide flexible ; the edge appearing the same in both Professor 
Xilsson's and our specimens. 

In a previous publication f we have described a New Jersey " stretch- 
ing implement," which is now believed to have been a true " scraper," 
and is so classed in chapter XII of this paper. "With such scrapers as we 
find, wherewith to clean the skins, and with these polished porphyry 
pebbles to stretch and soften them, after their dressing of " brains,"! the 
aborigines could make most comfortable clothing of the hides of our 

* Stone Age, p. 77, and pi. ix, fig. 185. t Amer. Nat., vol. vi, p. 222. 

} See Catlin'a N. A. Indians, vol. i, p. -l"). 



366 ETHNOLOGY. 

common deer ; aud we believe we are not far from right in classing 
figures 200 and 207 as "stretching implements," using that designation 
as it is applied by Professor Nilsson. 

Figure 208 represents a very carefully-wrought stone implement, of 
which we can say but little positively. It api:)ears to be a combination of 
the ordinary grooved oval j)oggamoggon and the little stone hammer, to 
be described in the next chapter. As either the one or the other, it is 
a pretty specimen, but why the characteristics of two such different im- 
plements should be combined is indeed puzzling. 

The general surface of the stone itself, as well as the groove and 
deep indentations on each side, are worthy of notice. While not pol- 
ished to any extent, this stone has a far smoother surface than the ma- 
jority of either net- weights or hammer-stones. The groove is unusually 
narrow, aud apparently has been ground out and not pecTced, as is the 
case with net-weights. The hollows or indentations are much deeper 
than those in any stone hammers in our collection, and, like the grooves, 
are very smooth, as though drilled with a stoue drill, such as figured in 
chapter xv, figure 155. 

There are no indications of battering or roughness at the ends, as in 
all stone hammers ; and, indeed, if such were the intended use, why the 
very carefully made grooves ? 

Our specimen, figure 208, bears much resemblance to two of those 
figured by Professor Xilsson,* Mit is a combination of them, which we 
think overturns the theory that the use of the two kinds of implements 
was identical. If figure 208 had no encircling groove, it would be very 
similar to an oval tool-stone figured by Sir John Lubbock.t This author 
has not much faith in their having been stone hammers, and adds, 
"It is very doubtful whether these implements really belong to the 
stone age." 

Whatever may be the use of the specimen we have figured, it is un- 
questionably a relic of the "stone age" of the North American aborigi- 
nes, and one that was of value in its day, considering the character and 
amount of the work on it. 

Figure 209 represents a very pretty specimen of those "discoidal 
stones," about which there has been much conjecture. 

We think the following paragraph from Du Pratz's workf correctly 
explains the use of the specimen we have figured : 

" The warriors practice a diversion which they call the gajiie of the 
pole, at which only two play at a time. Each pole is about eight feet 
long, resembling a Roman f, and the game consists in rolling a flat, 
round stoue about three inches in diameter and one inch thick, with the 
edges somewhat sloping, and throwing the pole in such a manner that 
when the stone rests the pole may be at or near it. Both antagonists 
throw their pole at the same time, and he whose pole is nearest the 
stone counts one, and has the right of rolling the stone." 

* stoue Age, pi. ii, ligs. :U aud 33. t Prehistoric Times, 2d ed., p. 98, fig. 118. 

X Hist, of Louisiaua, 1720, p. 366. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 367 

Squier and Davis,* in describing these discoidal stones, make 
mention of information given them b^^ Eev. J. B. Finley, who states 
"that among the tribes with which he was acquainted, stones identical 
with those described were much used iu a popuUir game resembling the 
modern one of " ten-pins." The form of the stones suggests the manner 
in which they were held and thrown, or rather rolled. The concave sides 
received the thumb and second finger, the forefinger clasping the periphery.-' 

This last sentence applies perfectly to the description of our specimen. 
The concavity on each side, although shallow, is well defined ; that of 
the right side, or the one which the thumb occupies when held iu the 
right hand, beiug somewhat larger. Of course the stone can be 
reversed so as to bring the second finger into this larger cavity, but it 
would naturallj" be grasped in the manner described by Mr. Finley. 

Figure 209, while not polished to any degree, is very smooth, an 
accurate circle in outline, and has the beveled margin very uniform 
throughout. The most elevated portion of the beveled edge is not iu 
the middle, so that when standing on edge the stone naturally falls on 
the right or more deeply concave side. When rolled, it generally 
tends to the right and falls with what we have considered the " right" or 
upper surface down. 

Squier and Davis t figure a great variety of this class of relics, 
and while giving many reasons and quotations tending to show that 
they were " game stones," add, " they are certainly enigmatic in their 
purposes." 

These disks are not abundant in Xew Jersey, but in every considerable 
collection of "Indian antiquities" we have visited, we have seen one or 
more specimens, all exhibiting about the difl'erence shown in the 
illustrations given by Squier and Davis of those found in the western 
mounds, except that none were perforated. 

Figure 210 is a disk of very compact stone, measuring two and a 
half inches in diameter, and one inch in thickness. The sides are 
finely polished, and the edge beveled, having a sharp central ridge, 
not straight, and somewhat nearer one side than the other. In out- 
line this disk is not a perfect circle, and will only roll a short distance, 
unless thrown with much force. 

This specimen is much ruder in detail than the preceding implement ; 
and while it may be such a stone as Du Pratz describes, being " one 
inch thick, with the edges somewhat sloping,^'' it does not seem sufticiently 
finished for such a purpose. 

This disk, figure 210, bears a marked resemblance to a " stone object" 
found at the Cape of Good Hope, " probably an car-ring, or rather 
lutton, for insertion into the lobe of the ear." The African specimen is 
smaller than that from New Jersey, being an inch and a half in diam- 
eter and only three-eighths of an inch thick. Col. Lane Fox|, iu 

* Anc. Mon. Miss. Valley, p. 223, fig. 121. t L. c, p. 221. 

t Journ. Etbnol. Soc. of Loudon ; uew series, 1870, vol ii. p. 41 ; pi. 1, fig. 2. 



3G8 ETHNOLOGY. 

commenting on tue Cape of Good Hope specimen, remarks that " such 
disks were usually supposed to have been used as Lammer-stones ; lie 
tbouglit, however, that this was too small to be used for such a pur- 
pose, and that the suggestion of Mr. Bowker, that it may have been 
used for insertion into the lobe of the ear, was a very reasonable one." 

While the specimen, figure 210, is somewhat larger and, we sup- 
pose, heavier than that above described, we think it very j)ossible that 
it too was used as a " button " for insertion into the lobe of the ear. It 
certainly is no larger, and probably no heavier, than many of the extrav- 
agant ear-rings which Mr. Catlin saw and i^ainted in his portraits of the 
Indians of the present century. 

Figure 210 is a very solid pebble of limestone, of a delicate bluish-gray 
color, which, when wet, shows beautiful mottliugs of pure white ; and, as 
the stone is thus rendered so very handsome, is it not probable that it was 
an ornament, and that, when freshly cut and polished, the blue and white 
contrasted as distinctly as now when immersed in water ? If the present 
dullness of the tint is the effect of long exposure, to what extent does 
this fact bear upon the question of age I 

Figure 211 represents an uninteresting-looking pebble, chiefly notice- 
able in that but little of the natural surface has been left by the grinder 
and for the astonishing surface-irregularity which it now presents. The 
pebble is a fine-grained quartz — sand conglomerate, hard and heavy. 
Xo doubt the patient fashioner of this specimen had some important ob- 
ject in view in grinding off the natural surface into the many angular 
surfaces which now exist. Extending around three-fourths of the cir- 
cumference of the implement is a well-defined but crooked ridge, close to 
the middle. This ridge, which is the prominent feature of the specimen, 
was probably intended for some useful purpose ; but what its object was, 
and even thatof the stone itself, is a mystery. Asa pebble it would make 
a very good " sling-stone," but the aborigine certainly did not use the 
sling. As a " bola" it would give a telling blow to a puma, as described 
by Mr. Musters j but although pumas {Felis concolor) were common, it is 
not known that our Indians ever used the bola. It may have been used 
as a war-club knob, such as Schoolcraft figures, described in the last 
chapter ; but would a club be any more effective because of elabor- 
ate grinding and ridges such as are the surface of this specimen ? We 
cannot think it was ever intended as a stone-hammer. It was never 
certainly used as such, having no trace whatever of violent contact with 
other stones ; however it bears more resemblance tp that class of relics 
than to any other. 

We have met with only a few — eight or ten — examples such as figure 
211, but all corresponded with this in size, shape, and mostly in mate- 
rial. One or two were hard jasper pebbles, with veins of fine-quartz 
running through them. All were ground over nearly the whole sur- 
face, and most of them were as irregular as the one here illustrated. 

Figure 212 represents a form of relic of which we have met with but 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 3G9 

one example, and unless it be iiicomplete — an unfinisbed specimen — wo 
can form no idea of its use, 

Squier and Davis bave given* a series of illustrations of " pendants," to 
wbicb tbis specimen bears mucb resemblance botb in size and fiiiisb, 
altbougb it is a little longer tban tbose of tbe ^Yest. 

Tbey say, ''Tbese pendants are of frequent occurrence in tbe vicinity 
of tbe ancient works, tbougb seldom found, if found at all, in tbe 
ancient works tbemselves. Tbey, for tbe most part, resemble tbe 
plumbs of tbe arcbitect, and are usually made of rare and beautiful ma- 
terials." As will be seen at a glance, tbis specimen readily comes under 
tbe bead of " pendants," as just described, but tbe specimens figured by 
Squier and Davis all bave a groove encircling eitber one end or botb, 
according to tbe sbape of tbe specimen, wbereby a cord was securely at- 
tached to pass tbrougb tbe opening in tbe lobe of tbe ear, if worn as an 
" ear-bob," or around tbe neck to let tbe " pendant " bang upon tbe breast. 
If tbis specimen, tberefore, is simplj^ unfinisbed, it is a pendant, and not 
of an " unknown " use; but is it unfinisbed? A careful examination 
sbows it to be uniformly polisbed or smootbly ground from one end to 
tbe otber. There are no rough portions or unfinished places ; hence we 
are compelled to think it had some other use. 

Tbe authors we bave just quoted give on page 219 of their work fig- 
ures of two pear-shaped stones, the dimensions of which are not given. 
They consider it possible that tbey were used as club-beads or something- 
similar, and quote Carver, who describes "a weapon in use by tbe tribes 
beyond the Mississippi Kiver which consisted of a curiously wrought 
stone, inclosed in leather, as above, (the Cbippewayan poggamoggon) 
and fastened like the slung-sbot of the present day to a thong a yard 
and a half long, which was also wound around the wrist. These weapons 
were used in battle." 

A specimen like figure 212 may possibly be a weapon such as above 
described, but it would appear, for two reasons, that it was not so used. 
In the first place the size, weight, and careful polishing are not in 
keeping with such a weapon as tbe "slung-sbot" described by Carver; 
and, secondly, if a wea])ou, would it not be oftener met with ? It has 
been suggested that it w^as a mould, about which clay was spread, to 
form the bowls of the clay i)ipes used by the aborigines; but its size 
is too great for this purpose. AVe bave not seen any clay ])ipes with a 
bowl of as great a diameter as this would make. Tbis s})ecimen measures 
four and a half inches in length, and one inch and three-quarters in its 
greatest breadth, which is a little above the middle of the specimen. 
The material is a fine-grained sandstone, and the whole surface being 
carefully ground and smoothed almost to a polish, tbe specimens can 
hardly be considered merely a pcHtle, as it miglit apjiear at first glance. 

Figure 213 rei)resents one of two specimens found together in a field 
near Trenton, N. J. We have seen a third, highly polisbed, of horn- 

* Auc. Mod. Mis. Valley, -p. 235, tig. rJ>J. 

S. Mis. lin 21 



370 ETPINOLOGY. 

Btone, sliowing the grooves very distinctly, and witli a bole drilled at 
one side of the end, opposite that which has the grooves or indenta- 
tions. It is in the museum of Eutgers College, at New Brunswick, N. J. 
This specimen is an ordinary sandstone pebble, four and seven-eighths 
inches in length, two inches and a half in width at the grooved end, and 
sloping from there to the opposite end, which is but an. inch in width. 
There has been a slight rubbing down of the surface generally, which 
is moderately smooth, and on one side are marks of a stone-hammer at one 
point ; but no depression or cavity has been formed that would attract 
attention. 

The interesting feature of the specimen, figure 213, is a series of deeply- 
cut grooves, the majority about an inch in length, which extend from or 
near the middle of the stone to the edge, running in an oblique direction 
to the left. There are eight, parallel on each side of the stone, and so 
arranged that, turn either side towards you, the direction of the grooves 
is the same. 

We have seen no description or illustration of a stone implement cor- 
responding exactly with this. 

Professor Nilsson* has given us one figure of a hammer-stone which 
bears considerable resemblance to figure 213, and says that it has at its 
edges " marks of the purpose to which it was formerly applied so unmis- 
takably that, when once pointed out, no further doubts can be entertained 
on the matter." This, we think, settles the question, and that, whatever 
the resemblance, figure 213 is not a stone-hammer. Such regular grooves 
as these cannot be called or considered marks of blows against some 
hard brittle stone. When we come to consider "hammer" or " tool 
stones," we will find a vast difference between the marks on this speci- 
men, figure 213, and the relics we have figured as true stone-hammers. 
Nor can these grooves be considered the natural result of use as a whet- 
stone for sharpening skiuning-knives and kindred implements. They 
are too close, regular, narrow, and short. 

When treating of breast- plates, wo saw that many of them were 
notched, and concluded that such notches were records of battles, of 
persons killed, or scalps taken. Stones such as that here figured are 
placed in the same class, but with a query. It seems to us that the most 
probable use of such stones was as records, and we think the fact of 
having met with one that was perforated strengthens the view that 
figure 213 is a "record-stone." Tlie other specimen in our collection, 
however, is much more rude in finish, and has these grooves more scat- 
tered about the margin. This rather combats the idea, possibly, of 
these relics being record-stones, and so coming under thehead of orna- 
mental objects. 

Figure 211 represents an oval, flattened cobble-stone, about four 
inches in diameter and two inches thick. The under side has been 
worn off until it is now a perfectly level plane. The margins are slop- 

* Nilssou ou Stoue Ago, pi. 1, fig. 11. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. oil 

ing and somewhat smooth, and in the center of the upper surface of 
the stone is a depression, perfectly circular at the top, and deepening 
with regularity to a point at the bottom. The appearance is that of the 
commencement of a hole by drilling, and is very different from the 
"tinger-pits" which we shall see on stone-hammers, when we come to 
describe them. 

In the specimen here described, as in very many others, there is a 
decided discoloration of the depression, as though drilled with metal, 
particles of which had adhered to the sides of the cup or hollow made. 
It is not a metallic discoloration, however, as proved by examination 
with a powerful lens. 

Just such stones as the one above described are very common 
throughout the State, and, overlooking the drilled (?) hollow, in the 
top, are considered simply the " crushers" used with the portable corn- 
mills. They probably had some other use, as in that case there would 
be no object in making any mark, however slight, upon the upper sur- 
face, which in no May tends to assist in the crushing of the grain, the 
stone simply being held in the hand and revolved. 

We have thought that these stones might be in some way connected 
with the production of fire. Sir John Lubbock figures* a Dacotah 
fire-drill bow, which consists of two plates or slabs of wood, one at each 
end of the drill, which is itself revolved b}' a bow-string being looped 
around it and the bow then drawn rapidly to and fro. That is devel- 
oped by the rapid revolutions of the drill, and communicated to frag- 
ments of rotten wood applied to the lower end of the drill. Now, as we 
find these stoue slabs most abundant on the sites of old Indian villages, 
they are probably a domestic implement, and we have thought they were 
used as the lower plate in which the fire-drill revolved : fibers of dead 
wood being heaped about the drill, where it enters the little depression 
on the top of the plate, would be ignited very readily. 

Sir John Lubbock does not say whether the slabs, seen in his illustra- 
tion of a fire-drill, are wood or stone. 

We are under the impression, however, that fire was produced among 
our Xew Jersey Indians by friction in simply violently rubbing one 
stick ui)on another, and if solely obtained in that manner, we, can give 
no explanation of the presence of these large stones, which by trial we 
find well adapted for the purpose suggested, in connection with the 
bow-drill. 

Figure 215 represents a peculiarly-chipped piece of yellowish-bro\vn 
Jasper, which, when found, was exactly twice its present length, and was 
the more valuable because the fragment which was broken off extended 
nearly at right-angles to the portion here illustrated. In its present con- 
dition this specimen measures three and a half inches in length, is an inch 
and a half wide, and half an inch thick. The under side is comparatively 
smooth — about as the majority of jasper spear and arrow points ; the 

"Prehistoric Times, 2cl ed., p. 514, fig. 224. 



372 ETHNOLOGY. 

upper side is more uneven, liaviug zigzag ridges made by the deep chip- 
jiiugs wliicli produce the large serrations so noticeable upou the outer 
side of the implement. Before being broken, the character of the chip- 
ping and general appearance of the fragment were, as thej' even now 
are, totally different from anything we have seen in chipped jasper, 
either from ]!^ew Jersey or other localities. The other "half" of the 
specimen still left the implement incomplete, which appeared to have 
been much the size and shape of a modern horseshoe. Before it was 
broken, this specimen bore much resemblance to one of a number of flint 
implements from Honduras, described by Dr. Daniel Wilson,* with an 
illui^tration ; and also figured and described by E. T. Stevens.t One of 
these Honduras s])ecimens is " a crescent with projecting points." It is 
said to measure seventeen inches in greatest length. This New Jersey 
fragment is a portion of a crescent, untJiout projecting points, which was 
about ten inches in greatest length. Whatever may have been the 
object of this Honduras crescent, in all probabilitj^ the same object was 
had in view in our New Jersey specimen, and we know of no more inter- 
esting instance of similarity between specimens of distant localities 
than occurs in this case, unsatisfactory though it may be, in consequence 
of our specimen being but a small fragment of the original implement. 

Figure lilG represents a very curious and interesting form of stone im- 
l^lement, of a pattern of which we have seen but this one example, which 
is in the possession of Joseph Newbold, esq., of Burlington County, 
New Jersey. The specimen is a polished horn-stone pebble, perfectly 
flat upon one side, and rounded, edged, grooved, and conically headed 
upon the other. It measures seven and a half inches in length and two 
and three-eighth inches in greatest width, this point being about one 
inch and three-quarters from the end, which is brought to a sharp cut- 
ting-edge. Four and a quarter inches from this cutting-edge in front, 
the implement narrows very decidedly, and is also here grooved, the 
groove being something over an inch in widtli. The groove is followed 
by a conical head an inch and seven-eightbs in length, the base being 
of equal width with the opposite margin of the groove and "waist" 
of the implement. The cutting-edge of this, specimen is so carefully 
worked and is still so well preserved that it cannot be overlooked in 
considering the probable use of such an implement. If we look only to 
the edge, we naturally conclude that it was a skinning-kuife, of a some- 
what peculiar pattern, being flat upon one side; but when we take into 
consideration the length of the l)lade and the wide and well-wrougbt 
groove and conical head, we are forced to believe that it was not made 
for any but an important purpose ; and as that was not, could not hare 
hccn, with reference to tbe skinning of animals, what was its use? 

As stated, we have seen but this one specimen, and find, on iiupiiry, 
no one possessing such an imi)lement in his cabinet, or admitting that 
he had ever seen its like. Tbe published works to which we bave 
" Prehistoric Man, 2d ed., p. 139, tig. 7. t Fliut Chips, p. 289, pi. i. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. di'3 

had access coutaiu no illustration or description ofjnst sucli a specinu'n 
as tii^are 210.* 

It will be found, on comparison with the hoe which wo represent in 
figure 174, that it bears some resemblance to it; but there is no 
indication whatever of figure 210 ever having been used for agricultural 
purposes; there are no scratches or stripe, as would be the case had it 
been so used. It is smoothly polished over its whole surface, but the 
smooth surface is that of the hand-ax and skiuning-knife, and not the 
scoured smoothness of a well-worn hoe. 

Ilaving a cutting-edge at one end, and that a very good one, it would 
seem proper to place this specimen in chapter xiv, with the chisels 
and gouges, a fitting place on some accounts, but the chisel was not 
available as a tool without a hammer, and the conical head of this spec- 
imen is as smooth, as highly polished, and as free as any portion of the 
implement from every trace of violent contact with other stones. If a 
chisel, it has never been used, and is more elaborately finished than any 
other specimen, with i)erhaps one exception, that we have met with. 
The whole amount of the work of fashioning chisels and gouges as a 
class is expended upon the edge. The gouge, figure 131), for instance, 
is beautifully wrought at the edge, which is accurately curved ; but 
elsewhere this specimen is quite rough as compared with the edge. 

It has been suggested by a successful collector and student of Indian 
antiquities, that this implement might have been used in detaching 
bark from trees, either for canoe purposes or for coverings for their 
huts; that by placing the flat side down or upon the body of the tree, 
and pushing the implement forward, the bark would be detached from 
the trunk of the tree without danger of cutting it, as the edge of the 
implement pressed upon the wood, and the curved back of the blade 
lifted the bark up as the blade moved forward. This certainly is an 
ingenious speculation on the part of Mr. JSTewbold ; but we cannot see 
why the groove and tapering head of the implement should have been 
added, if such were its use, and certainly they are too well made and 
carefully finished to be placed there as ornaments merely. It may be, 
however, that the narrowed part was so made that a cord could be 
placed about it to facilitate its carriage, as it is easier to make a groove 
around such an object than it is to drill a hole. If so, the speciaieu 
may be a " hark-deiadicrP 

Chapter XXVI. 

FLAKING-nAMMERS A^TD rOLISIIINGTOOLS. 

Every considerable collection of Indian antiquities we have seen 
from Xew Jersey, has included certain globular, oval, cylindrical, and 

* Figures 210^ and 2iiSh rcprosont a fine specimen of a " tally-stick," found near Free- 
hold, N. J. The scries of deeply-cut uotclus are indicative of its use as a record or tally. 
We liave seen uo other specimen of this pattern from New Jersey. It '.vas received 
from Rev. S. Lockwood too late for farther description. 



374 ETHNOLOGY. 

long, flat stones, each possessing certain cLaracteristic marks, which de- 
cide that it is, in arcbseological i)arlance, either a stone-hammer or a pol- 
ishing-tool — a tool to block out or a tool for finishing an implement. 

Figure 217 represents a good average specimen of a stone or flaking 
hammer such as found in New Jersey. It is a triangular sandstone peb- 
ble, the sides measuring about three inches each. The thickness of the 
specimen is a little less than two inches. On each side, very nearly in 
the center of the specimen, is a shallow, circular pit or depression, for 
the insertion of the ends of the thumb and second finger, the forefinger 
being curved over the margin of the stone-hammer. Held thus, we find 
it a useful tool, that does not weary the hand in holding, and is admira- 
bly adapted for the purposes intended by the original owner, that of 
chipping stones into desired shapes for arrow and spear points, and 
"pecking" the unshapely water- worn cobble-stones into axes. 

If this specimen, figure 217, is held in the manner above described, it 
will be noticed that the outermost angle of the stone as then held has a 
battered appearance, which feature is proof positive of the correctness 
of the designation of the specimen as a stone-hammer. In the case of 
figure 173, two of the angles have been considerably battered, one much 
more than the other, showing that when one projecting point was too 
much worn the stone was shifted so that a new angle was the outermost. 
In this specimen, one angle has been completely used up, another is 
somewhat worn or battered off, the third is still intact. We have sel- 
dom met with an example of stone-hammer that told the story of its use- 
fulness more plainly than this does. 

Figure 218 represents a smaller (circular stone or flaking hammer, of a 
size and shape like the majority of those which we find, the circular form 
being somewhat more abundant than the triangular. Figure 218, like 
the preceding, has the characteristic finger-pits, which in this case are 
considerably smaller in both measurements of diameter and depth. 
These " finger-pits" are rudely " pecked" out, and are not smooth, truly 
circular, or uniform as in those evidently drilled depressions noticed in 
figures 209 and 215. 

Figure 218 is " completely battered up" over the whole extent of the 
margin of the specimen, there being only a circular space about each 
finger-pit of the natural surface of the water-worn pebble that has been 
used in fashioning this hammer. These stone-hammers were continually 
turned in the hand when being used, that they might retain their circu- 
lar form. After being worn too small for " pecking " stone axes, they 
were probably utilized as net-weights or war-club knobs. 

Figure 219 represents a third form of stone or flaking hammer which 
has some interesting features. It is from a mineral which we do not 
know, of blackish-brown color, and very smooth and j)olished upon the 
natural surface. It has much the appearance of, but is not, a hornblende 
pebble. 

This implement, instead of having the finger-pits of figures 217 
and 218, has the natural, smooth surface of the pebble retained, and, 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 375 

curiously enough, a small, smooth spot also is retained on the margin of 
the specimen. If we take up this, as Ave would those having " finger- 
pits," and place the end of the forefinger on the smooth surface upon 
the margin, we find that the point directly opimsite the forefinger's end 
is that which has been worn off' and battered by contact with other and 
harder minerals. The margin itself has been puri)osely chipped to bring 
the pebble into proper shape, and the point above mentioned is the only 
one that shows the specimen to have been used, and that it was de- 
signed solely as a stone-hammer. As in figure 217, the battered surface 
at that one point opposite the nahiral resting-point for the forefinger 
makes it a matter of certainty how this implement was utilized. 

Figure 220 represents a pretty little stone-hammer, made from a small 
cylindrical pebble. The sides still retain their natural surface, but the 
ends are well battered, showing that the implement has done good serv. 
ice. Such a specin)en is the most simple form of tool that we have in 
our collection. It is merely a pebble from the bed of a brook, and per. 
haps the battering it has received was caused by repairing a weapon 
of jasper which had become dulled on its edges or had lost the point. 
We think it i)robable that every aborigine was more or less competent 
to work in tlint; otherwise, on extended journeys or during a day's 
hunting, many implements would be useless from some slight accident 
which would liave to be repaired by the professional tool or arrow maker. 
We have often visited localities where jasper was extensivelj' worked, 
and have seldom met with any but the more finished stone or fiakiug 
hammers. 

Professor Xilsson* has described a series of stone-hammers from 
Scandinavia, icWi one from the Delaware Biver, which are in most re- 
spects similar to our New Jersey specimens. He says of them, "there 
are antiiiuaries who would deny that the stone implements here repre- 
sented and described (as hammer-stones) were used in the manner just 
mentioned, but I have never heard any one able even to guess for vrhat 
other puri)osc they were used. As grindstones for iron they do not 
answer; and the marks of blows found on them were, as must be evi- 
dent to every one not totally ignorant of the subject, occasioned by 
blows on some hard brittle stone; not against any kind of metal 
whatsoever. Similar chipping-stones are, besides, found from the pole 
to the equator, among all nations who use stone implements. The only 
objection to my view is, that similar stones have been found among 
iron articles. I have hinted that possibly these were amulets. That 
they were grindstones for iron arms is, as above stated, utterly impos- 
sible. It rests with the doubter, therefore, to specify for what purpose 
they were used, according to his opinion. On all these stones * * * 
we find at the edges marks of the purpose to which they were formerly 
applied so unmistakable, that when once pointed out no further doubts 
can be entertained on the matter." The only real difference we notice 
between those of New Jersey and Scandinavia, is the absence of per- 

' Stoue Age, 3d ed., p. 10, j)l. i, ligs. 1-11. 



376 ETHNOLOGY. 

f orated specimens. We have seen that certain stones, bearing marks 
of human workmanship, have been, in part, the tools with which were 
fashioned the vast majority of the relics which we find. 

A stone-hammer to block out and rudely shax^e another stone was not 
all that was required by the stone-implement maker. The finished im- 
plements generally have lost the majority of the stone-hammer marks, 
and such wearing-off was evidently not done by the mere use of the imple- 
ment. It was designed, and not accidental. This "rubbing-down" 
was, at first, accomplished by simply taking the weapon and any other 
pebble of suitable size and rubbing the one upon the other; but in time 
there w^as an advance over this primitive method. Stones of a partic- 
ular shape, grain, degree of hardness, &c., were chosen as the best 
adapted for the purpose of smoothing weapons, and instead of being 
utilized once and thrown aside they were retained for future use, them- 
selves soou becoming altered in shape aud possessed of one or more of 
those long, slender, polished surfaces, common to them all, and whereby 
they are characterized as a distinct class. These relics we have desig- 
nated "polishing-tools." 

Figure 221 represents a good average polishiug-tool, or, as desig- 
nated by Nilsson, " whetstone." This specimen is an oblong, flat- 
tened cobble-stone, such as are found by thousands in the bed of the 
Delaware Eiver. The upper surface has beeu considerably used, and is 
now much smoother than the natural or unused surface of the implement. 
At one side about half of the edge has been worn off, leaving the ends 
intact. This wearing away has extended deeply into the body of the 
stone, and the i^olishiug space thus produced, with the oval ends of the 
stone, give the specimen a more tool-like appearance than is common 
to whetstones generally. This specimen, figure 221, measures nine inches 
in length, and about two and one-half in width, aud is about the maxi- 
mum size of polishing-tools as they occur iu New Jersey, excepting, of 
course, portions of immovable bowlders, which being handy and of 
proper material, were used by stone-implement makers when not incon- 
veniently distant from the workshop. The immense bowlder in Center 
street, Trenton, N. J., in which is the mortar described in chapter xxiv, 
figure 200, had a surface over a foot in length, and seven inches wide. The 
red man evidently was accustomed to go to this to renew the fine edge 
which characterized a well-made porphyry hand-ax or skinniug-knife, or 
to give new polish to a cherished breast-plate. 

Figure 222 represents a second example of polishing-tool, being a stone 
of much finer grain than that of the preceding example, and having a 
number of very smooth, level surfaces, it is still admirably adapted for 
polishing porphyry and horn-stone implements. About seven inches 
long and one inch and a half Avide, it is of just the size for a whetstone, 
and yet is easily carried about. Considering the amount of wear it has 
had, aud its virtues as a sharpening-tool, and even now for metallic 
implements, we doubt not but it was a cherished specimen. At various 
points on the surface of the specimen there are narrow, deep lines, which, 



STONE AGE IN NEW JERSEY. 377 

v>Q doubt not, are the scratcbes of porpliyry skiiming-kiiivcs, ^vboso 
dulled edjics were being restored. The principal sbarpening-surface is 
on tlie upper edge of tbe specimen, which is here about three-fourths of 
an inch wide, and extends over about one-half of the length, leaving 
one-fourth at each end, just as in the preceding specimen, which has 
not been used, and presents the rough, pitted, natural surface of the 
stone. 

Polishing and sharpening stone with such a tool as this is facilitated 
very nuich by the addition of water and very fine sand, and both were 
l)robabIy used by the aborigines, as we know them to have been used 
in drilling the beautiful banner-stones. 

Figure 223 represents a veiy common form of polishing-tool, and one 
perhaps more properly named than the two preceding specimens, which 
might be classed by themselves as whetstones. It is a small quadrangu- 
lar pebble of horn-stone, which has been " pecked " over the whole 
surface to bring it into its present shape. The middle of the specimen 
is widest and thickest, and from thence it slopes toward each side and 
end. One end, as will be noticed in the illustration, is curved instead 
of square, and polished instead of " pecked." This polished surface is 
the polishing pointy being that which was rubbed in the grooves of axes 
and other similar points to give them a smooth surface. This rubbing 
has produced a sort of an edge at one corner, but not sharp at all, like 
a skinning-kuife. When once a rounded corner has been produced on 
a poiishing-tool, as in this specimen, which is of hard mineral, it is com- 
paratively easy, with the addition of sand and water, to deepen, smooth, 
and acourately curve a groove such as we find on the ordinary cobble- 
stone ax, some of which, as we have seen, have beautifully-polished 
grooves, which, of course, are rendered smoother and perhaps deeper 
by the Avear of the withes or sinews used in strapping the handle. 

CONCLUSION. 

Having given such facts as appeared to be pertinent to the subject 
in describing the several classes of implements of which we have here 
treated, there is little remaining to be said. Until future discoveries 
throw more light ui)on the particular uses of each kind of implement 
and weapon, but little more will be learned from these si)ecimens beyond 
the facts given of the unquestionable identity of stone implements 
tliroughout the world, and their indication of man's oiiginal barbaric 
condition. 

No question in the whole range of anthropological science b.as re- 
ceived more attention than how America was originally peopled, and 
everything bearing upon it, however remotely, is of value to those who 
seek to answer it. The stone implements we have beeui describing have 
something to do with this question. Maintaining, of course, the develop- 
ment of all mankind from a palaeolithic to a neolithic condition, and 
believing that the "rude implements" which we have described in 



378 ETHNOLOGY. 

cliapter ii to be strictly palaeolithic iu their character and age, in order 
to prove that the aborigines came from another continent, it must be 
shown that snch a paleolithic people were possessed of canoes which 
would stand the hap-hazard rudderless journeys that Sir Charles Lyell 
has described as one great means whereby distant islands and continents 
have been populated.* 

Sir Charles Lyell remarks :t " Were the whole of mankind now cut off, 
with the exception of one family, inhabiting the old or new continent, 
or Australia, or even some coral isle of the Pacific, we might expect 
their descendants, though they should never become more enlightened 
than the Australians, the South Sea islanders, or the Esquimaux, to spread 
in the course of ages over the whole earth, diffused partly by the ten- 
dency of j)opulation to increase, in a limited district, beyond the means 
of subsistence, and partly by the accidental drifting of canoes by tides 
and currents to distant shores ; " but it is impossible to determine the 
range of capabilities of paleolithic people, even iu the matter of migra- 
tions; and estimating a people's capabilities by a study of their -'rude 
implements," we are of the opinion that an overland journey from the 
southern continent or Central America was more probable than a 
canoe voyage from any of the islands of the Atlantic or Pacific. If we 
heed the traditions of the aborigines, that they came from another coun- 
try, then they sailed over some i)ortion of the Pacific and not the Atlan- 
tic, all the various tribes having traditions of coming from the west; but 
it would be well to remember that these traditions refer also to some 
preceding or pre-occupying people whom the incoming race conquered. 
If the Delaware Indians, who two centuries ago were in peaceful pos- 
session of New Jersey, really came from the west, and on arriving en- 
countered another people and drove them off, all of which their tradi- 
tions claim, the question arises, who were their predecessors? Were 
they a more primitive people than the red Indian, and the fasliioners 
of the old, rude implements ? Were they the paleolithic folk of the Dela- 
ware Valley, and the red Indians the neolithic people? 

While we cannot but accept the suggestions of Professor Huxley, as 
expressed in our introductory chapter, in preference to the exotic origin 
of our red Indians asserted by Sir Charles Lyell, we are nevertheless 
compelled to return to the point from which we started, and admit that 
the origin of the aborigines is still enveloped in what has iiroved an 
impenetrable mist; but now that so much attention is being paid 
throughout the world to anthropological science, it is almost safe to 
predict that the origin of the red Indian and his i^rehistoric history will 
yet be correctly outlined. 

Sir John Lubbock has given excellent reasons for his belief in the 
indigenous origin of the Mexican civilization. He remarks : " Take the 
case of the Mexicans. Even if we suppose that they were descended 

* See February and June numbers of American Naturalist for additional remarks oh 
tbis subject, based upon further discoveries of aboriginal relics. 
tPrincii)les of Geology, 11th ed., vol. ii, p. 474, Amer. ed. 



STONE AGE IN NEW JEKSEY. 6i\) 

from a primitively-civilized race and bad gradually and completely lost 
both tlie use and tradition of letters — to my mind a most improbable 
hypothesis — still we must look on their system of pictnre-\Yriting as 
being of American origin. Even if a system of writing by letters could 
ever be altogether lost, which I doubt, it certainly could not be aban- 
doned for that of i)icture-writing, which is inferior in every point of 
view. If the ^Mexicans had owed their civilization not to their own 
gradual improvement but to the influence of some European visitors, 
driven by stress of weather or the pursuit of adventure on to their 
coasts, we should have found in their system of writing and in other 
respects unmistakable proofs of such an influence. x\lthough, there- 
fore, wo have no historical i^roof that the civilization of America was 
indigenous, we have m its very character evidence more satisfactory 
perhaps than any historical statements would be." 

Dr. Daniel Wilson, who endeavors to prove the Asiatic origin of the 
aboriginal American, says of him, he "is among the ancients of the 
earth,"'* and that, " whcncesoever he derived his origin, lie presents 
to us just such a type of uuprogressive life as the nomads of the Asiatic 
steppes. The red Indian of the Northwest exhibits no change from 
his precursors of the fifteenth century ; and for aught that appears 
in him of a capacity for development, the forests of the American 
continent may have sheltered hunting and warring tribes of Indians, 
just as they have sheltered and pastured its wild herds of buffaloes, for 
countless centuries since the continent rose from its ocean bed. That 
he is no recent intruder is indisputably proved alike by physical and 
intellectual evideuce.t" Eurther on the same writer observes: " Mau 
entered on the occupation of the ISTew World in centuries which there, 
as in older historic regions, stretch backward as we strive to explore 
tliem. His early history is lost, for it is not yet four centuries since 
tlie red man and this western world were made known to us ; and he 
still exists as he did then, a being apart from all that specially distin- 
guishes either the cultivated or uncultured man of Europe.'"| Does not 
this admission of the great antiquity of the American aborigines carry 
with it, of itself, a proof of the autochthonic origin of the Iiulian ? And 
the similarity of races — is it not but a repetition of what we have seen 
in the stone implements themselves, that like surroundings will pro- 
duce similar weapons and tools? 

Certainly one wonld not endeavor to trace a relationship between 
the ancient people who fashioned and used the rude and elaborate stone 
im{)lements of Great Britain and the red Indians who chipped and 
polished the specimens here figured, yet, excepting the minerals of which 
they arc made, how similar are they to the English specimens! 

What though the Mongol does resemble the American, does this in 
itself prove relationship? And, also, it may be asked, which of the 
American aborigines, as they now are, does the Asiatic Mongol most 
resemble; or has each American tribe a representative in the other 

* Prebistoiic Mau, 2tl ed., p. 11. t L. c, p. 10. I L. c, p. 13. 



380 ETHNOLOGY. 

continent "? Dr. Wilson asserts that " the theory of an aboriginal unity 
pervading our iudig<^nous American race from the Arctic circle to 
Tierra del Fuego has leen shown to be baseless ;"* but how can it be 
})roved that the Indians appearing most nearly allied to Asiatic races 
are the oldest or original aborigines ? We doubt that all American 
races are related, and if so different, as Dr. Wilson assumes, who can dem- 
onstrate now which type or pattern was the central Irom which came the 
others that climate, food, and surroundings generally, finally produced? 

Whatever the origin of the American aborigine, however, there can 
be no question as to his condition from the date of his first appearance 
on American soil to the time of the arrival of the European settler, a 
period of immense duration, during which the puzzling red man jiassed 
from the paleolithic to a neolithic condition ; and if we may correctly 
estimate the advance in culture which a race has made, by the traces of 
their arts that are still left to tell the story of their former presence, 
then in ]S"ew Jersey the Indian was once a paleolithic man, and, from 
whatever source he came, here advanced without supernatural revela- 
tion, or the missionary efforts of a superior people, to a condition which. 
is best known as " neolithic," or that stage of culture when stone was 
utilized to the best advantage, every quality of the mineral being recog- 
nized and the weapons fashioned accordingly. 

The theory of the gradual progress of mankind, which needs no 
further discoveries to prove it true, is demonstrated, as in Europe, in 
the condition and general position of the stone implements found in 
Xew Jersey, although the older Stone age of the American race or races 
does not date back as far into prehistoric ages as is jirobable in other 
continents. It is true of New Jersey, as of Europe, that " all our recent 
investigations * * * into the state of the arts in the earlier Stone 
age, lead clearly to the opinion that at a period many thousands of years 
anterior to historical times, man was in a state of great barbarism and 
ignorance, exceeding that of the most savage tribes of modern times. 
He was evidently ignorant of all metals, and of the arts of polishing 
s-^one implements and of making i)ottery."t And finally, if the iiride of 
man is to be considered in the demonstration of the truth in nature, is 
it not more pleasant to believe that we are an improvement over, rather 
than a degeneration from, our remote ancestry 5 and should we not be 
ihankful to " Time, which antiquates antiquities, and hath an art to 
make dustof all things," that he "hath yet spared theseminor monuments" 
to us to prove the advance which we have made over a distinct people of 
the globe, a fact which is now shown to be quite in accordance with 
" the convictions of the great body of the learned," and with the facts of 
history and of prehistoric times ? 

*L. c, p. 513. t Lyell, 1. c, vol. ii, p. 485. 



/ 



/' 




¥i^. 3. 




Fig. 4. — Natural size. 



1 





Fig. «.— i u:if- *^'7^*^- 



Fig. 9. 




I'^i-. 10. 




Fig. 13. — Natural size. 



I 




,^,,;;w^,™T,-,.,^,„.„„^ . 




Fig. 15. 



Ficr. 14. 




Fig. IG. 

i nat. size (side view). i nat. size, 
(end view). 



Fig. 17. — ; iiiit. nize 




Fig. 18. 



Fig. 19.— i uatural size. 




Fi"-. 20. — i initmal size. 




iu^ -'I. 




Fiti. ^2;?. 



Fiir. 23. 



Fill. 24.— i nut. size. 





Fig. "io.— Nat. .size. 



Fiu. 20. — iNai iii.tl .-51/ 




Fig. 21 — Natural size. 





Vfj-. :i\K — Xatiiial size 




Fiff. 30. — Natuiai size. 



Fig. 31.— Natural size. 





.itutal size. 



Fiff. 33.— Natural size. 




Fig. 34. — i uatural size. 




Fig. 3b — AatuKil 81Z0. 




Fiji. :57. 





Fiff. 41. 



Fii^. 42. — Natural size. 




Fi«. 4:i. 




V\". 47.— Natural sizt 



Fi"'-. 40.— Natiiial hi/.f 



FitC. 4d. 




Fig. 4i».— iScit. hize. 1- „r. 5U.— J^at. size. I'^'o- ^^ — Niit. size. pjg_ 52.— Nat. sizH. 





/!^ 



Fiir. o9. 




Fisr. GO. 






Fi''. 74.— Nat. size 



Natural s^ize. 







Fiii. 77. 



-r-^'f>^ 







■'!•'. 79.— Nat. .size. 




Fijr. zZ. Nat.—:,!/ 




Fi«. 100. 
Natural size. 



FiiT. 91. 



^^ 



^:- ... . ' 

Fi<r. 9:^. — Nat. size. 




l00 
Fio-. 93. 



Fiii. 9tf. — iiat. si/o. 



Fiar. 101. 




Fio-. 102. 




Fi-. lOr!. 




y^ 






I'l-. !()."■). 




Fiir. 104. 






Fin:. 107. 




Fig. lOd.— Nat. size. 




I / 



i I 



-i 




Fig. 113- 



Fig. 109. 






Fig. 110. 



Fig. 111. 



Fig. 112. 




Fi'^. 114— Niit. size 



Fii^. llC). — Nat. size. 




Fiir. 117 




Fis?. 118. — Nat. size. 





Fi-. 1-Jn. 




Fig. 121.— Nat. size. 





i'ijr. 122.— Nat size. 



Fi-i. 1-2:?.— Nat. size. 



^"'^ 



W'^'j ^' M 



^'' 



Fig. 124.— Nat. M/.t 




Fig. 125. — Nat. size. 




Fiff. 127. — Nat. size. 




Fi£. 126. 




Fig. 128.— Nat. size. 



^ 



Fi^-. 12<J.— Nat. size. 



Fiff. 1:50. 



f:-^ 



Fiic. 131. 




''"Ill 



IhJ^ 



\ ( 



kvwi*'^ 







V-" 



Fi-. 132. 




Fiif. 13G. — i u;it.size. 




Fij;. loij.— i uat. size. 




Fit;, r.54. — ^ uat. hizf, 




Fijc. 1:5;! «.— :* iiat. size. 



FJj;. 137 wanting. 





i'l". i:i~. — i nat. size. 



rio. r.vj. 




FiiT. 140.— ? uat. size. 




Fis- 141.— Nat. size. 



Mm 

'Ml. 



Fiji. 14-i. 







Fis. 145. 




WhT)^ ;,,_ 



Fiff. 144 




Fisi. 14(3. — Nat. size. 





Sfc 



^ 



Fiji-. 146. 





Fig. ira. 




? 



' A 






%. 



Fi-. 150. 



Fie \^A. 




Fiti. 153. — Xat. size. 






Fig. 15<J 





Fiar. Uil. 



Fitr. 1G2. 





FiL'. 105. 





Fig. 1G4, 



Fi.r. IGG. 




1 1-. 1'. 





Fiji. UiT. 



Y\s. 168. 




Fiff. 170. 




Fis. m. 




— ». ^.^-flnflK >*''TTVy*^_>rT!Vy—^ 



a it; 



WM *i 



iSj«:,l'':'.Z 



iiiiiiP 






FliT. l(il> l>. 




Fitj. 171, wautin;'. 




Fig. 17;5. — Nat. size. 





Fiy;. l7:{ a.— Section. 



Fi.tr. 17-i. 



^r*^ 





Fiu;. l^ 






m 

• dm 



\ 



Fio. ITG. 




Fiff. 177. 




Fijr. 177 a. 




Fie 17-< 



11^' 





w 



^^^BPIH^^^I 


^^M 


||||lr,-^:^^l 


^^^1 


H^^lf- ' /^ 


i^Bmn 




"■"Ml 


^i^^^^ 


^^^H 



Fisr. 180. 



i i<r. ITlt. 




Ti-. 1-1. 





I'ii;. \^L 




Fitr. 185. — Nat. size. 





Fig. 184. — Nat. size. 



Fig. 186.— Nat. siza. 




Fitr. 189 





Fif?. 188. 



Fi"'. 187.— Nat. size 




Fi<: rJU. 




FiU. I'Jl. 



,,:r'!:'£:fjp^- 





Ficr. l'J4. 





Fi-. 107. 



Fig. 19(3, wanting. 
Fig. 19{ia, wanting. 




Fi^. liio. — Natl. size. 




'^^^f'^^^^i^^^m 




Via- I'^o 



;l^^ 




Fi.r. --^UU. 



Fiji. 201. 



Fig. 202. 



^•^*^5^, 



r<^S^. 




7'il 



) 



1 







Fi--. -'(i; 




Fiii-.-JU4. 




Fi>r. -JOo. 




Fig. 206. 




Fig. 207. 




Fi-. 20- 




Fiir. 20l>. 




Fijr. 21U. 




Fijr. 211. 




Fi-. 21:i. 




FiiT. -i:i. 




Fi- -14. 





Fiji, '-il-''- 




Fiij;. '-iUi. — k "'IT- '"^iz^- 




1- 1-. 217 





Fia. 218. 



Fig. 220. 




Fig. 21'J. 



\ 





Y\<r. -J-Jl. — i u;it. siz(> 



Fig. 222. — i nut. size. 




V\iX. 223. 



CONTENTS. 



Pago. 

Order of Congress to print extra copies 2 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting report to Congress I? 

Abstract of annual report for 1^75 4 

List of Regents, committees, and members ex officio of tlie Institution 5 

OiScers of tbc Institut iou G 

Report of Professor Henry, Secretary 7 

Cbanges in tbe Board T 

Operations of tbe Institution 7 

Congressional axipropriations for Museum and Centennial display 8 

Government Board of Exhibitors 6 

Accumulation of specimens ? 

Plan of transferring buildiiJg to tbe Governnu'iit 9 

Connection between Institution and Museum 9 

Financial statement 10 

Hamilton bequest 10 

Virginia bonds 10 

Deposit in U. S. Treasury 10 

Deposit in First National Bank 10 

Su8])ension of First National Bank 11 

Publications of Institution 11 

Rules for distribution of ))ul)li(!ations 11 

Smitbsouiau Contributions, volume XX I'i 

Miscellaneous collections 1^5 

Publications to form part of future volumes l;> 

Publication of Toner Lectures 14 

Publications of National Museum 14 

Indian Vocabularies Irf 

Researches I'J 

Meteorology I'J 

International exchanges 27 

Forc-ign corres])ondents 23 

Government documents 31 

Library 3:? 

Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries liti 

Asteroids a.ud comets discovered 3(1 

Correspondence 37 

Ethnology 40 

Sliscellaneous 41 

Cheuiical laboratory 42 

I'hotograjjhy 42 

Light-house duty , 4'i 

Fish Commission 44 

Polaris expedition 45 

3til 



382 CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Report of Professor Henry, Secretary— Coutinucd. 

National Museum 4G 

Increase of National Museum 4G 

Work cloue in connection ■with the National Museum 50 

Tucson meteorite 51 

Government explorations and surveys 51 

Appendix to the Eeport of the Secretary 58 

International Centennial Exhibition 58 

History of the movement 58 

Plan of exhibition as proposed by the Smithsonian Institution GO 

Progress of the work CO. 

Display of the National Museum 61 

Display of mineral resources Gl 

Display of animal resources G3 

Display of fish and fisheries 64 

Display of Anthropology 67 

National Museum 72 

Number of entries in record-books 72 

Additions to the collections 73 

Exchanges, literary and scientific 91 

Statistics 91 

Government exchanges 91 

Packages received for distribiition 92 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents 99 

Meeting of January 19, 1876 99 

Meeting of January 26, 187G 100 

Report of special conmiittee on the death of Hon. Henry Wilson, Vice-Presi- 
dent of the United States 100 

Eulogy on Hon. Henry Wilson, by Hon. Peter Parker 100 

Report of the Executive Committee 103 

Finances 103 

Receipts and expenditures 104 

Hamilton bequest 104 

Virginia bonds 105 

■ First National Bank deposit 107 

ExpendltTires in detail ^ 107 

National Museum appropriations 109 

Examination and approval of vouchers 110 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Alexander Volta, eulogy by Arago 115 

The Probable Iuture of the Human Race, by Alphonse de Caudolle 142 

Report on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natur.vl His- 
tory of Geneva from July, 1873, to July, 1874, by Prof. M. A. de Candollo, 

president 1^1 

The Past and Future of Geology, an inaugural lecture by Prof. Joseph 

Prestwich.M.A., F. R. S 175 

Report of the Special Committee for the Consideration of the IS1e:\ioiii 
of Mr. Hokratii G. Wex, upon the diminution of the water of rivers and 

streams 1''" 

The Refraction of Sound, by William B. Taylor 205 

On the Organization of Local Scientific Societies, by Prof. Joseph 

Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 217 



CONTENTS. 383 

Page. 

Ethnology : 

luteniational code of symbols for cliarts of pie-historic arcbseoloj^y 221 

Special charts 222 

Goverumout charts 223 

Symbols 221 

Qualities of the syiiiljuls 224 

Kadical symbols 225 

Derivative symbols 220 

Complementary sy mhols 230 

Colors 232 

Characteristics pcrtaiuiiig to ancient man in Michi^^aii, by Ib^nry (Jillman.. 234 

The stone-age in New Jersey, by Dr. C. C. Abbott 246 

Localities 24G 

Rude implements 247 

Grooved stone axes 253 

Celts 201 

Flint hatchets 2(J4 

Lance-heads 209 

ITnnting-spears 274 

Fishing-spears 278 

Arrow-heads 2cJ4 

Knives 300 

Skinning-knives ■-- 303 

Scrapers 303 

Hammers •>13 

Chisels and gouges 316 

Drilling-stones J^l^ 

Breast-plates and gorgets ' 327 

Banner-stones 332 

Stone-age sculpture •- 336 

Pipes -541 

Pottery :544 

Pai nt-cups -547 

Hoes and shovels 350 

Corn-mills, mortars, and pestles 357 

The poggamoggon and net-sinkers 361 

Stone-implements of unknown uses 3G4 

Flaking-hammers and polishing-tools 373 

Conclusion 377 

Illustrations ■5-1 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Past and future of geology. rage. 
Figs. 1, 2, 3. Relative proportion of (he imniber of .species of or^aniu retuaius 

in Great Britain 183, 184, 185 

Eartb-isothenus 11)1 

Eefractiox of sound. 

Fig. 1. Carbonic-acid lens 208 

2,3. Hydrogen lens 209 

4. Vental refraction 210 

5. Tberuial refraction - 214 

6. Refraction by cold 215 

International code of symbols for CHAins ok fke-ihstoric arciueology. 

Fig. 1. Cavern, souterraio, slieUer 225 

2. Menhir, pillar, standing stone 2"J5 

3. Dolmen , allee-converte 225 

4. Tumulus, mound 225 

5. Sepulture, buniau remains 225 

G. Camp, entrenchment, oppidum 225 

7. PalaOtte, pile-dwelling.. 225 

8. Discoveries, stations, hearths 225 

9. Mine, quarry, digging 225 

10. Cavern, grotto, natural shelter 220 

11. Grotto or soutcrrain, of hunum construction 22(5 

12. Natural sepulchral grot to 22G 

13. Artificial sepulchral grotto 220 

14. Subterraneous refuge 220 

15. True menhir or worked monolith 227 

10. Series of menhirs, alignment, avenue 227 

17. Cromlech or enceinte of stones '. 227 

18. Rocking stone 227 

19. Hollowed stones 227 

20. Sculptured or inscribed stones 227 

21. Monument, rune, (Pierre i\ legende) 227 

22. Dolmen, allec-couverte 227 

23. Dolmen under a tumu! us 227 

24. Dolmen over a tumulus 227 

25. Simple tumulus 228 

20. S.-pulchr.al mound 228 

27. Fortified tumulus 228 

28. Lojig barrow 228 

29. Tumulus inclosing a wooden chamber 228 

30. Tumulus surmounted by a monument 223 

31. Mardelle 228 

S. Mis. 115 25 



386 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 
Lnternatioxal code of symbols, etc.— Continued. 

32. Simple sepulture, accidental burial 228 

33. Sepulture by inbuiuatiou 228 

34. Sei)ulture by incineration 228 

3.5. Cemetery by inbumation 223 

36. Cemetery by incineration 223 

.37. Camp, enceinte, oppidum , 229 

38. Enceinte witb tumulus 229 

39. Fosse, rampart, Ion f;itudiual defense 229 

40. Discovery of isolated objects 229 

41. Discovery of objects in masses 229 

42. Atelier, foundery 229 

43. Station and habitation 229 

44. Kjokkenmodding 229 

45. Terramare, (marl-bed ) 229 

46. Cavern, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, cl false 230 

47. Artificial souterrain, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

48. Menhir, a explored, & ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

49. Dolmeu, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

GO. Tumulus, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

51. Cemetery by inbumation, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false.. . 230 

52. Camp, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

53. Palatitte, a explored, 6 ruins, c destroj^ed, d itilse 230 

54. Terramare, a explored, h ruins, c destroyed, d false 230 

55. Artificial sepulchral grottoes, a several, h many, c definite number.. 231 

56. Mardelles, a several, h many, c definite number 231 

57. Burials by inciueratiou, a several, 1) many, c definite number 231 

58. PaliBolitbic age 231 

59. Neolithic age 231 

60. Bronze age 231 

61. Iron age 231 

62. Cavern, « paleolithic age, & neolithic, c bronze, fZ iron.. 231 

63. Find, a palaeolithic age, 6 neolithic, c bronze, d iron 231 

64. Station, a palajolithic age, h neolithic, c bronze, d iron 231 

Anciext man in Michigan. 

Fig. 1. Inferior extremity of perforated left humerus from Great Mound, 

Rouge River, Michigan ; posterior surface, full size 235 

2. Inferior extremity of i)erforated right humerus from Great Mound, 

Rouge River, Michigan ; posterior surface, full size 235 

3. Perforated skull from mound at Sable River, Michigan, (Lake Huron,) 

one-fourth size 237 

4. Perforation, Sable River skull, full size 238 

5. Artificially-perforated skull from Great Mound, Rouge River, Michi- 

gan, (No. 1,) one-fourth size 239 

6. Perforation, Rouge River skull, (No. 1,) full size 240 

7. Artificially-perforated skull from Great Mound, Rougo River, Michi- 

gan, (No. 6,) one-fourth size 240 

8. Perforation, Rouge River skull, (No. 6.) full size 241 

9. Perforated skull from mound at Devil River, Michigan, (Lake Huron,) 

one-fourth size 241 

10. Perforation, Devil River skull, full size 242 

11, 12, 13. Carved bone (fragment) from Great Mound, Rouge River, Michi- 
gan, full size 245 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



387 



Fii. 



'E AGE IN Xew Jersey. 


The Stone age in New Jersey. 


L 


Flat-bottomed, peak-backed 


50. 


Fishing-spear of slaty rock. 




stoue, (or turtle-buck.) 


51. 


Fish-spear. 


2. 


Small turtle-back. 


52. 


Fisli-spear of Jasper. 


:?. 


Small ax or hatchet. 


53. 


Jasper iishing-s[iear. 


4. 


Ivude iuiplement. 


54. 


Fish-spear chipped from 


r>. 


Kudo implemeut, (ax.) 




slate-rock. 


0. 


Small ax. 


55. 


Fish-si»ear. 


7. 


liudo implement. 


56. 


Chance liako. 


H. 


Kude spear-head. 


57. 


Kudo arrow-head. 


y. 


Domestic type of rude im- 


58. 


Kude arrow-bead. 




plemeut. 


59. 


Arrow-head. 


10. 


Domestic typo of rude im- 


60. 


TriangTilar arrow-point. 




plemeut. 


61. 


Koughly - made sleuder 


11. 


Grooved stone ax. 




point. 


r>. 


Ax. 


62. 


Tanged or stemmed arrow- 


13. 


Small ax. 




point. 


14. 


Quite small ax. 


63. 


i\gate arrow-head. 


15. 


Porphyry ax. 


(il. 


Arrow-head with notched 


1(5. 


Polished ax. 




base. 


17. 


Cobble-stone ax. 


65. 


Chipptid arrow-hoad. 


18. 


Large stone ax. 


Gil 


Arrow-head with notched 


I'J. 


Chipped or pecked ax. 




base. 


20. 


Crude ax. 


67. 


Tri-notched stemmed ar- 


21. 


Snuill ax of cobble-stone. 




row-head. 


22. 


Large uugrooved ax. 


68. 


Triple-notched arrow-point 


2:3. 


Highly-polished porphyry 




of jasper. 




ax. 


69. 


Small arrow-head. 


24. 


Point-headed polished por- 


70. 


Arrow-point. 




phyry ax. 


71. 


Triangular - bodied arrow- 


25. 


Celt. 




point. 


26. 


Celt of fine-grained jwr- 


72. 


Slato arrow-head. 




phyritic stone. 


73. 


Small arrow-point. 


27. 


Jasper hatchet. 


74. 


SteninuHl arrow-point. 


28. 


Flint-hatchet. 


75. 


Stemmed arrow-point. 


29. 


Flint-hatchet. 


76. 


Flint chipping. 


30. 


Flint-hatchet. 


77. 


Stemmed arrow-point. 


31. 


Flint-hatchet. 


78. 


Jasper arrow-point. 


32. 


Flint-hatchet. 


79. 


Ilarpoou-point. 


33. 


Flint- hatchet. 


80. 


Jasper arrow-head. 


34. 


Lance-head. 


81. 


Triangular arrow-point of 


35. 


Jasper lance-head. 




quartz. 


36. 


Flint lancc-head. 


82. 


Eciuiangular specimen of 


37. 


Jasper lance-head. 




jasper arrow-points. 


38. 


Chipped flint. 


83. 


Triangular arrow-point. 


39. 


Agate hunting-spear. 


84. 


Triangular arrow-point. 


40. 


Jasper hunting-spear. 


85. 


Chipped arrow-point. 


41. 


Micaceous spear-head. 


86. 


Quartz arrow-point. 


42. 


Jasper spear-head. 


87. 


Triangular arrow-head. 


43. 


Jasper spear-head. 


8:!. 


Triangular arrow-head. 


44. 


Slato spear-head. 


89. 


Triangular arrow-head with 


45. 


Slate hunting-spear. 




concave base. 


46. 


Spear point. 


90. 


Arrow-head -with concave 


47. 


Slato implement. 




sides and base. 


48. 


Fishing-spear. 


91. 


Arrow-head with concave 


49. 


Fishing-spear. 




sides and base. 



388 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



The Stone age in New Jersey. 

92. Small jasper arrow-head. 

93. AiTow-point. 

94. Lozenge - shaped arrow - 

point. 

95. Lozenge - shaped arrow - 

point. 
9G. Elongate lozenge - shaped 
arrow-point. 

97. Quartz arrow-point. 

98. Jasper arrow-point of five 

angles. 

99. Quiutangular jasper arrow- 

point. 
ICO. Quartz arrow-point of the 
leaf-pattern. 

101. Leaf-shaped arrow-point. 

102. Leaf-shaped arrow-point. 

103. Large jasper arrow-head. 

104. Pale-yellow jasper arrow- 

point. 

105. Arrow-point of the shark- 

tooth pattern. 
lOG. Quadrangular stemmed ar- 
row-point. 

107. Jasper arrow-point. 

108. Carefully-chipped flint. 

109. Chipped jasper knife. 

110. Chipped knife. 

111. Long, narrow, and finely- 

edged implement. 

112. Long, narrow, and finely- 

edged implement. 

113. Chipped fragment of horn- 

stone. 

114. Skinning-knife. 

115. Hornstone skinning-knife. 

116. Serpentine skinning knife. 

117. Skinning-knife. 

118. Skinning-knife. 

119. Knde skinning-knife of por- 

phyry pebble. 

120. Small-sized skinning-knife. 

121. Scraper of slaty rock rudely 

chipped. 

122. Sheaf of wheat scraper. 

123. Sheaf of wheat scraper. 

124. Sheaf of wheat scraper. 

125. Jasper scraper. 

126. Jasper scraper. 

127. Jasper scraper. 

128. Scraper. 

129. Scraper. 

1.30. Jasper scraper. 

131. Chipped jasper scraper. 



The Stone age in New Jersey. 

132. Scraper with battered 

edges. 

133. Slate scraper. 

133(7.. Oval-grooved pebble. 

134. Stone hammer. 

135. Stone hammer. 

136. Cobble-stone hammer. 

137. Sandstone hammer. 

138. Smooth chisel. 

139. Curved chisel or gouge. 

140. Highly-polished serpentine 

gouges. 

141. Slender - bodied, square- 

based jasper implement. 

142. Drilling-stone. 

143. Square-based drill. 

144. Carefully-chipped yellow 

jasper drill. 

145. Drilling-stone. 

146. Arrow-point of slate. 

147. Slate drilling-stone. 

148. Fragment chipped from 

yellow jasper. 

149. Specimen of chipped-jasper 

drill. 

150. Crooked, rudely - shaped 

drill. 

151. Jasper drilling-stone. 

152. Jasper drilling-stone. 

153. Point of drill. 

154. Point of drill. 

155. Drilling-stone. 

156. Chijiping in white quartz. 

157. Eoughly - chipped imple- 

ment of slate. 

158. Chipped slate. 

159. Slabof finely-grained sand- 

stone. 

160. Fragment of very large 

breastplate. 

161. Stone drill. 

162. Stone drill. 

163. Breastplate. 

164. Breastplate. 

165. Stone ornament. 

166. Polished serpentine speci- 

men. 

167. Gorget. 

168. Black stone ornament. 

169. A split, water-worn jasper 

pebble. 
169a. Stone ornament. 
169&. Stone ornament. 

170. Stone implement. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



389 



The Stoxe agk in New Jkksey. 
17L Wiiutiiig. 

172. Banner-stone. 

173. Perforated oiuanieut or 

banner-stone. 
173rt. Perforated ornament or 
banner-stone. 

174. Banner-stone. 

175. Hornstone, polished ban- 

ner-stone. 

176. Half of a banner-stone. 

177. Sculptnre in plate of slaty- 

stone. 
177rt. Small pebble. 

178. Head or neck of a bird-like 

animal. 
170. Stono pipe. 
Ifc'O. Stono pilie. 

181. Stone pipe. 

182. Stone pipe. 

163. Fragment of pottery-pipe. 

184. Pottery fragments. 

185. Pottery fragments. 

186. Pottery fragments. 

187. Pottery fragments. 

188. Fragment of ornamented 

pottery. 

189. Ornamentation. 

190. Specimen of a small vase. 

191. Fragment of pottery. 

192. Paint-cup of a water-worn 

liebble. 

193. Very small paint-cup of a 

water-worn pebble. 

194. Stone lioe. 

195. Specimenofcbii)))ed jasper. 

196. Wanting. 



TiiH Stone age in New Jersey. 
196rt. Wanting. 

197. Small mortar or portable 

corn-mill. 

198. Ordinary water-worn peb- 

ble. 

199. Glacial bowlder, with pot- 

hole. 

200. Stone pestle. 

201. Long pestle. 

202. Small pestle. 

203. Poggamoggon. 

204. Flat, oval-ontlincd pebble. 

205. Flat, side-notched sinker. 

206. Highly-polished hornstone 

pebble. 

207. Polished pebble. 

208. Carefully - wrought stono 

implement. 

209. Discoidal stone. 

210. Disk of very compact stone. 

211. Pebble. 

212. Imi)lement. 

213. Hammer or tool-stone. 

214. Oval, llattened cobble- 

stone. 

215. Chipped piece of yellowish- 

brown jasper. 

216. Stone inqilement. 

217. Flaking hammer. 

218. Flaking luunmer. 

219. Flaking hammer. 

220. Stone hammer from a small 

cylindrical pebble. 

221. Polishing-tool. 

222. Polishing-tool. 

223. Polishing-tool. 



INDEX 



Page. 

Abbott, Dr. C. C.,on tho stone agt; in New Jersey 246 

cast of prehistoric mask from 72 

Abert, General J. '\\, bird-skin from 72 

Aborij^inal monuments of New York :il~^, ;{:!!, olM, 311, 342 

Acoustics, Pi'ofessor Henry's researclies on 43 

Act of C'onifress respecting use of books in Library of C()ngr<;ss l)y lirgents of 

Smithsonian Institution 3() 

Adam, Joseph S., marble specimen from 72 

Adams, George E., skins from 72 

Admiralty, board of, London, publications from 3.') 

Agassiz, Louis 1")1, l.')~ 

collections of, purchased KiO 

Agents of lustitntiou 27, 2S 

Agriculture, Department of, collections from 90 

Aikeu, Charles E., specimens from 47,72 

Alusa, S., Tucson meteorite ol 

Air, researches ou 11"^ 

Akhurst, John, stone pestle from 72 

Alaska Commercial Company, mummies and skins from 47, 72 

Aldrich, Charles, si>ecimen of 'svood cut by stone ax from 7.'5 

Aleutian mummies 48 

Alexander, Prof. Stephen, harmonies of the solar system 12 

Algae and mosses 173 

Alkalies, geological position of l^O 

Allen, J. A., grouping of American mammals by oO 

Ambler, li. C, specimen of minerals from 73 

Ambrosian Library, Milan, publications from 3.') 

American Naturalist.. 272, 277, 2-'(), 300, 310, 311, 237,241, 242, 313, 320, 321, 343, 345, 3.T.5, 

3.j[), 305, 378 

American Sardine Company, sardines from 73 

American Wiiip Company, collection from 73 

Ames, James F., specimens from 73 

Ampere 132, 153, 155 

Analyses maile bj- Dr. Oscar Loew 12 

rules for chemical 40 

Anchor Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

iucieut man in Michigan 234 

monuments of the Mississippi yalley,27 1, 259, 29G, 304, :!(I5, 31(i, 327, 332, 333, 339, 

345,301,367,309 
stone implements of Great Lritain . .2S1, 301, 300, 307, 3.12, lUO, 325, 330, 346, 355, 

362 

/ndi^rson, AVilliani, arrow-heads from '^•5 

jlnderson, W. F., specimens of galiisite from ''3 

Angel, Dr. Manuel Uribd y, Indian pottery from 73 

Angstrom, researches of 1 ' ~ 

Animal resources, Centennial display of 63 

Anthropology of the United States illustrated at the Centennial 67 

391 



392 INDEX. 

Page. 

Anthropological Institute of New York, Journal of "517 

of Great Britain, Journal of 330 

Antiquities of Wisconsin 339,341 

Tennessee, publication on 13 

Apparat us of Woltman 1G9 

Professor Zamboui 134 

Cavendish \is 

employed in fisheries 64, 05 

Appropriation by Congress for publication of results of Polaris expedition. .. 45 

Appropriations by Congress for Centennial Exhibition 41, 51) 

distribution of duplicate specimens 71 

National Museum 8, 46 

provisional 109 

Aquarial Gardens, Boston, seals from 73 

Arago, association with de la Rive 153 

eulogy on Volta by 115 

eulogy on La Place by 18 

Archaeology, researches in 67 

of the United States, attention given to the. (See Ethnology.).. 40 

charts of pre-historic 222 

pre-historic, sj* mbols for charts of 221, 224 

Archives des sciences 155 

Argentine Confederation, exchanges with government of 31 

Army Medical Museum, co-operation with 41 

collections from 89 

Amy, General W. F. M., Indian implements, &c., from 73 

Arny, Colonel William F., contributed dresses, &c., of Navajo Indians 48 

Artesian wells of Pregny, temperature in 155 

Aristotle 125 

Assistants in National Museum 6 

Atlas Steamship Company, reduced rates of freight by 27 

Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic announcement of 36 

Astronomy, elements of, by Quetelet 1G4 

labors in, of Geneva society 165 

and geology, connection between 177 

Atmosphere, researches in 118, 119 

solar and terrestrial, elements in 177 

Atmospheric electricity 120 

waves, study of, by Quetelet 105 

Aurora borealis, electricity and 18 

Babcock, Dr. W. H., alligator-eggs from 73 

Baden, exchanges with government of 31 

Bagot, Samuel O., specimen of rock from 7? 

Bailey, W. B. F., stone implements, &g., from 7* 

Baillarger, Dr., on report of 17J 

Baird, Prof. S. F., Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian Institution 3 

appointed to represent Institution in Government board of 

exhibitors 8 

curator of National Museum ...: 6 

distribution of eggs and spawn by 45 

directed labors of the fish commission 44 

member of board in behalf of the Executive Departments.. 58 

repoi't on Centennial Exhibition by 58 

report on National Museum by 46 



INDEX. 393 

Page. 

13;nixl, Prof. S. F., Sioux clay-pipo from 73 

Baird, G. W., U. S. N., wooden iriiaf;o fVoin 73 

Baker, Win. A., on Indian implements 280,301) 

ISaker, W. K. (So« Aquarial Gardens.) 

l]?.ker, Smith &. Company', new heatinir ai)paratus by 109 

I5a\lou, W. IT., stono implement from 73 

Baltimore, J. D., iuterspinous process of tish from 73 

Bancroft, Hon. George, Regent of the Institntiou 99 

member of the executive connnittee Ill 

Bank, First National, (h^posit in 11,103, 104,107 

Banks, Montague, specimen of hell-bender from 73 

Barker, W. P., specimen of giant beetle from 7:? 

Barnes, G. W., specimens of jumping seeds from 73 

Barnum, P. T., furnished specimens 47,73 

Bartlett, Dr. E. H., living specimens of golden eagle from 73 

Basel, University of, pul)lications from 35 

Batrachia and Reptilia, check list of North American, by Prof. Edw. D. Cope.. 14 

Batty, Joseph H., skins from 73 

Bauerraeister, Rev. W. G. C, minerals from 73 

Baumhauer, Prof., agent of exchanges 23 

Bausett, S. P., fishes from 74 

Bean, T. H., fishes, skeletons, and Indian implements from 74 

Beccaria, researches of 117, V2i 

Bechler, G. R.. skull of hour from 74 

Becquerel, on rain 19S, 200 

Becqnerel, M.. methods of, M. Soret relative to 174 

Belgium, exchanges with government of 31 

Belgraud, M., woi k of, Alph. Favie relative to 173 

Beudire, Capt. Charles, U. S. A., eggs and skins from 74 

Bequest, Smithson's, object of 9, 10 

amount of 103 

Bcrger, Dr. , observations by 198 

Berghaus, Dr., statistics in regard to height of water 190 

15crgland, Lieut. Eric, explorations bj' 50 

Berlin, University of, publications from 35 

Bernary, Dr. F. F., jiolished stone from 74 

Berthoud, E. L., ethnological and mineral specimens from 74 

Berthoud, "W. B., specimen of giant beetle from 74 

Berzelius 132, 153 

Bessels, Dr. Emil, exf)loration of Alaska by 45 

scientific results of Polaris expedition by 45 

Biology, Principles of, Hi-rbert Spencer 147 

Birds, centennial disi)lay of 03 

Birds of Iv-rgnelen Islands, by Dr. J. H. Kidder, U.S.N 10 

Birnie, Lieut. Roger, explorations by 56 

Blackford, E. G.,exhibitiou of fish by 65 

]51ackford, Eugene G., fishes from 74 

Blake, Prof. William P., minerals from 74 

in charge of mineral department at Centennial Exhibi- 
tion 47, 61 

P>land, Thomas, forwarded packages for the West Indies 28 

Boardman, George A., eggs from 74 

Boehmer, George H., quartz crystals from 75 

Bonds, Virginia and oth<!r State 105 

Bonn, University of, x>ublicatiou3 from 35 



394 INDEX. 

Page. 

Booth, G. W., minerals from 7fi 

Borelly, A., discovered asteroids 37 

Borneo, Dyaks of, certain customs of the 238, 2i) 

Bossange, G., agout of exchanges S7 

Botanical index 13 

Botany, labors in, by Geneva society 172 

Bourdeilles, France, scraper from 312 

Bourse, C. J., jr., minerals from 75 

Bowers, Rev. Stephen, collections from 43 

found perforated skull 242 

Bowes, j\Ir. James L., publications from 35 

Bo wker, Mr. , on stone objects 363 

Bowman, Peter, arrow-heads from 75 

Bowman, S. C, contributed birds 47 

birds and skins from 75 

Boyd, C. R., minerals from 75 

Boyd, Dr., specimen of pike-perch from 75 

Brackett, Lieut.-Col. A. G., birds, skins, &c.,fi'ora 75 

Bradley, Prof. E. IT., minerals from 75 

Brand, C. C, whaling-gun and bomb-lances from 75 

Bransford, Dr. J. T., U. S. N., alcoholic fishes, shells, and minerals from 75 

Breck, Prof. Robert L., cast of pre-historic medallion from 75 

Breslau, University of, publications from 35 

Briggs, Ulysses, nest from 75 

Bristow, Hon. B. H ., member of the Institution 5 

British Association, report of 210 

British government, publications from 34 

British America, packages received for distribution in 'J5 

British Association 152 

Broadhead, Prof. G. C, minerals from 75 

Broca, M., on perforated skulls from Baye, Marne 243 

Brockett, Colonel, presented elk > 47 

Brown, S. G., transportation clerk 6 

Brown, IT., felt from bottom of gunboat " Isaac P. Smith" from 75 

Brown,Dr. J. J.,shells from 75 

Bryan, O. N., fishes from 75 

Bryan, R. B., meteorite from 75 

Bryan and Walker, shells from 75 

Buchan , Professor, wind-charts by 23 

Biichner, letter of 150 

Buck, Stuart M.,coal from 75 

Buckland, Dr., succeeded Dr. Kidd— works of 17G 

Building, expenses of 107 

for taxidermist and photographer erected 42, 109 

erected for Centennial Exhibition 59,00 

Bulletin of the National Museum i 14 

Burchard, Miss Sopliia, birds from 75 

Busiiman, II., collections from 86 

Byrne, G. C, surgeon U. S. N., Indian pestle from 75 

Buenos Ayres, public library of, publicti tions from 35 

Calkins, W. W., shells from 76 

Calvin, William, shells from 76 

Campi, P., discovery by 117 

Canfield & Co., quartz-crystals from 76 

Capelliui, member of archajological commission 221 



INDEX. 395 

Page. 

CaiicUiiii, chairman of 2'2"2 

Cainon, General Horace, speciuiens IVoui Japan, from 7G 

Carley, B. J. M., oysters, &c., from 7(: 

Carlisle, Amos M., <;alena from TC 

Carlisle, importance of labors of l-5"3 

Carpenter, R. C, birds' e<r,i?s from 76 

Carpenter, Lieut. W. L., U. S. A., collections from 76 

explorations by 56 

Cartailluic, 1]., member of counnittee on symbols for archaeological charts 221 

Carver on Indian war-implements ^>0'J 

Cases, appropriati on for, by Congress , H 

Casey, J., stone implements from 7G 

Casts of fishes at Centennial G'.], (JJ,G5 

ethnological specimens 41 

Centennial Exhibition, display of National Mnseum at 4G 

aiiiuopriation by Congress for 8 

Professor Daird's re[iort on proposed plan of 58 

Catlin's Xortli American Indians olO, 3G5, 36S 

Central Virginia Manufacturing Com])auy, copper-ores from 7G 

Chace, ^Yilliam, stone implements from 7G 

Chandler, Henry, plates for winds of the globe 20 

Chandler, Hon. Z., ex-officio meudjer of the Institution 5 

Chant re, Eruestj archaeological chart by 221 

member of archajological commission 222 

report of, on archa'ological symbols 232, 233 

Chapman, George H., septaria and an'olite from 7G 

Characteristics of ancient man of jMichigau 234 

Charpentier, discoveries of IGO 

Charts illustrating work on temperatures 2G 

of winds 23 

Charts, Government 223 

Chase, A. W., ethnologica, &c., from 7G 

Check-list of North American batrachia and reptilia, by Prof. Edw. U. Cope.. 14 

Chemical laboratory. Dr. Oscar Loevv in charge of 42 

Chemistry, labors in, of Geneva Society 1*0 

Chester, Capt. H. C, wooden anchor from 7G 

Chicago, 111., Academy of Sciences of, lish-skins from 7G 

Chil, Dr., on perforated skulls from the Canary Islands 243 

Chili, exchanges with government of 31 

Chiraz, Mirza Mohammed Aly Persan, Persian coiu from 7G 

Christchurch, New Zealand, Canterbury, nuiseum of, bones from 7G 

Christiauia, University of, furnished life-size figure of a Lai>laiider 49 

Norway, Royal University of Norway, collections from 7G 

Circular respecting Government exchanges 32, 33 

Circular respecting ethnological specimens 4.1 

Clapar(:!de, Edouard 171, 174 

Clark, Prof. 11. J., work on Lucernaria, engravings for 13 

Clark, J. II., furnished pre-historic implements - 4"^ 

fossils, &c., from 7tJ 

Clark, George, fish from 7G 

Clark, Wilson H., minerals from 7G 

Clark, Dr. W. M., bones, &e., from 7G 

Clark, William S., stone implements from 7G 

Clarke, Prof. F. W., tables of the constants of nature 14 

Classificatiou of operations of Instituliou 7 



396 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Classification of publications 11 

Clendeuniu, Frank, scalps from 76 

Climate, change of, probable effects of 144 

Climatology of Kergueleu Island 17 

Clymer, Hon. Hiester, appointed Eegeut 7, 99 

Coal, causes of diminishing ipumtity of 144 

Coal power, utilization of 20, .38, 39 

Coast Survey engaged in tidal investigations 13 

Cobalt in solar atmosphere 178 

Coffin, Prof. Selden J., winds of the globe 12 

Coffin, Pi-of. James H., on winds of the globe 12,20 

Collaborators of National Museum 6 

render assistance in correspondence 40 

Collections, additions to, in 1875 52, 72 

Collett, Robert, contributed fishes from Norway 47 

CoUett, Prof. Eobert, fishes from 7G 

Colorado River of the West, publication of exploration by Prof. J. W. Powell 

of the 17 

Colors, theory of 37 

Committee respecting death of Hon. Henry Wilson ~ 99 

on connection of Institution and National Museum 102 

Congress, appropriation of, for ethnological display at Centennial 41 

National Museum 40 

publication of results of Polaris expedition. .. 45 
act of, respecting use of books in Library of Congress by Regents 

of Smithsonian Institution 36 

edition of 10,500 copies of report printed by order of. 13 

resolutions of, respecting exchange of public documents 31, 32 

Conrad, Prof. T. A., determines material used for pottery 344 

Constants of Nature, tables of the, by Prof. F. W. Clarke 14 

Contributions to knowledge 11 

National Mnseuni in 1875 47 

Co-operation of Government Departments in Centennial Exposition 8 

State geologists with the Institution 62 

with other establishments 42, 48 

Cope, E.D., the vertebrata of the Cretaceous formations of the Went 52 

Cope, Prof. Edw. D., check-list of North American batrachia and I'cptilia 14 

CoppiSe, Henry, Regent of the Institution 100 

Corcoran Art Gallery, co-operation with 41 

additions to 42 

Correspondence of the Institution, acconnt of 37 

Correspondents, character of scientific 37 

Costa Rica, exchanges with government of 31 

Coues, Dr. Elliot, on Dr. Kidder's ornithological collections 17 

labors of 50 

collaborator in mineralogy and ornithology (5 

Coulon, Louis 158-lCO 

Cox, Hon. S. S., expiration of term of, as Regent 7 

Cox, Prof. E.T., specimens from 77 

Cox, John F., gypsum from 77 

Cracow, scientific association of, symbols for archiBological charts by 221 

Crawford, works of 119 

Cretinism 1'^ 

Crittenden, A. R., whalebone and thimble from 77 

Croll, Mr., hypothesis of - 14~ 



INDEX. 597 

Page. 

Crufts, W. H., snake-skiu from 77 

Crustacea, fossil, M. Schlutter 173 

Cryptogams, memoir on, by Fde ICA 

Cuuard Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

Curley, Rev. James, Eskimo implements from 77 

Currier, George II., badger from 77 

Currier, J. M., ethnological specimens from 77 

Cushing, Frank H., Indian implements from 77 

Cuvier ]r>H, IfiO, lOl 

Dabney, William C, M. D., carved stone-bead from 77 

Dalibard's experiment 121, 122 

Dull, William II., in charge of conchological division.. 6 

specimens from 77 

Dall, Rev. C. II., relics from India from 77 

Dammaras, implements used by the 300 

Dana, Prof. J. D., Regent of the Institution 100 

Darwin, theory of 149, 150 

Davis, Dr. E. II., on stone pipe 333 

on inscribed ax from New Jersey 2G0 

Davis, A. C, perforated skull jiresented by 237 

Davis, O. W., jr., geological specimens from 77 

Davy, Mari(^, rain-fall in Paris 199 

Davy, Sir Humphrey 132,153 

Dawson, Dr. J. II., shells from 77 

Dean, Wm., stone hammer presented by 314 

Dean, H., stone ax presented by 254 

Death of Vice-President Pleury Wilson 99 

Do Buch, Leopold IGO, 101 

Do Candolle, M., on Galericula calmaricnsis 170 

De Candolle,.A. P 153,103 

De Candolle, Prof. M. A., president of Geneva Society of Physics and Natural 

History 151 

Do Candolle, Alph., botanical geography 172 

De Candolle, Alphonso, dominant language for science, translation of 13 

D'Espine, Dr. Adoljjhe KJS 

on ])uer))eral septic<^mia 172 

De Frecc, A. B., peail articles from 77 

De la Ilarpe, Prof, relative to I'rof. Ihiyden's report 173 

on ed'ect of a t]iunderl)olt H)7 

Delaware Indians 350, 353, 302 

Delano, George iSc Co., oils and candhjs from 77 

Do la Rive, Auguste 151, 153, 106 

eulogy on, by Dumas 13 

on electricity and aurora boreal is IB 

De la Rive, G.aspard 153 

De la Sagra, Don Ramon 151, 102 

D'Luc, works of 119 

Do Martina 157 

D(! Mortillet, Gabriel, r(q)ort of, on arclweological symbols 233 

Denmark, exchanges with government of 31 

D'Otfenberg, Baron, book presented by 3() 

Department of Agriculture, collections from the 90 

co-operation with 41 

State. (See George Williamson.) 

DePfuhl,M 101 



398 INDEX. 

Page. 

Derry, Charles W., skin fi'om 77 

De Saussure, Heuri, monograph of American wasps by 13 

on Orthoptera 171 

De Silva, J., member of committee on symbols for archajologioal chorts 221 

Desor, Mr., drilling in stone 32 

member of archieological commission 22 

Agassiz associated with IGO 

Dexter, Mr., fish from 77 

Dick, Dr. F. N., skin from 77 

Dickeson, M. W., medals from 77 

Diebitsch, Hermann, exchange-clerk G 

Dillingham, Joseph R., salmon from 77 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 71 

Government exchanges 32 

District of Columbia, packages received for distribution in 92 

Dividends received on deposits with First National Bank 11 

Dodge, R. F., oars and paddles from 77 

Donaldson, Thomas, assistant to Professor Blake 47 

collections made by; arrangement made with railroad 

companies by 62 

Dorpat, University of, publications from 35 

Douglas, Thomas, minerals from 77 

Douglas, William G., minerals from 77 

Dozier, Dr. G. R., anatomical specimen from 77 

Dredgings 69 

Duby, M., relative to Alga3 and mosses -^ 173 

Duell, Hon. R. H., ex-officio member of the Institution 5 

Dufour, General, effect of a thunderbolt 107 

level of waters 167 

Dumas, eulogy on De la Rive 13 

Dunedin, New Zealand, Otago Museum, fossils, &c.,from 77 

Dapont, member of archreological commission.., 221,222 

Du Pratz on Indian implements 306,367 

Du Pre, Professor, on earthquakes in North Carolina 18 

Dutton, Capt. C. E., explorations by 53, 54 

Earth, researches on composition of the 177, 181 

Earth-isotherms 191,192 

Earthquakes in North Carolina, Professor Du Pre on. Professor Henry's notes on 18 

Eaton, John, member of board in behalf of the Executive Departments 58 

Eaton, D. H,, Indian implements from 77 

Ebermayer, Journal of Meteorology ' 200 

Edes, Lieut. B. Long, camelia-seed from 77 

Edgar, John S. , presented photograph of Egyptian papyrus 36 

Edwards, Daniel, lynx from 77 

Edwards, Vinal N., (see United States Fish Commission) 78 

Edwards, William H., coal from 78- 

Eels, S[. Lundon 170 

Electrical phenomena, Dela Rive, study of 155 

machine, Volta's improvements on the 115, 117 

Electricity as motive power -59 

and aurora borcalis 18 

heat produced by 1^2, 133 

production of, by means of dissimihir metals 130, 131 

and evaporations 127 

Voltaon 115 



INDEX. 399 

Page. 

Electricity, atmosphoric 1"20 

Electrometer made by Darcy and Lc Ivoy, .siii;^csted liy XuUtt 1'-':^ 

Cavallo's J ^ ^ lU 

Elect ropborus, perpetual 115, 117, 118 

Elements koowii iu earth aiidnolar atmosphere 177, Irtl 

Elliott, Heurj' W., geological specimeus from 78 

Eudlich, Prof. F. M., in charge of miuerah)gieal di\isi()ii 

Eugelhardt, member of archaeological commission 221, 222 

Erlangen, University of, publications from IJo 

Ery throxylou Coca, Dr. Gosso on I'ui 

Estimates, receipts and expenses of .Smithson fund 108 

proposed by board iu behalf of the Executive Departments 58 

Etheridge, M 18:i 

Etheridge, R., table of fossil fauna and llora 1"J5 

Ethnology 221 

communications on 18 

articles on 221 

labors of Institution relative to 4(t 

arrow-heads 2-'4 

axes 25;5 

banner-stones •!-52 

breastplates -"27 

celts 2GI 

chisels 3l() 

crauinm, perforation of the 2:37, 2:!8, 2:59, 240, 241, 242, 24:^ 

discoidal stone, Squier and Davis on I?(j7 

Kev. J. B. Finley on V)G7 

drilling-stones 31U 

Esquimaux knife ^ . . - - 302 

iishing-spears 278 

ilaking-hammers 27:5 

gorgets 327 

gouges 31() 

hannncirs 3i:5 

hatchets 2(34 

hoes 350 

hunting-spears 274 

inqilements 247,304 

KjokkenniiJdding, hatchets or axes of the 2G7 

European ax I'roni 268 

knives 300,30;? 

lance-beads 2G"J 

mortars 357 

net-sinkers "'Gl 

paint-cups 347 

I)estle3 357 

pipes 34 1 

poggamoggon 3G1 

polishing-tools 37:? 

pottery 344 

scrapers 308 

sculpture 3:}(i 

antiquities of Carolina, North , 282 

Georgia, Savannah River 319 



400 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Ethnology, Illinois, £ast Saint Louis 353,354 

Saint Clair County 352 

Michigan 234 

Devil River 241,242 

Lake Huron 237 

Rouge River 234, 235, 236, 237, 239, 240, 241, 244, 245 

Sable River 237,239 

Saginaw 238 

New Jersey, Bear Swamp, near Lawrence 323 

Beverly 342 

Burliugtou County .292, 303, 306, 318, 329, 334, 342, 350, 355, 

360, 372 

Croswick's Creek 278,281,292,303 

Delaware River 285, 312, 314, 342, 360, 364, 375, 376 

^ Delaware Water Gap 246,294,343 

Ediuborough Township 255 

Hunterdon County 288,295 

Lambertville 254,314 

Lawrence, Mercer County 328, 355 

Middlesex County 316 

Monmouth County 355 

New Brunswick 256,316 

Ocean County 355 

Riverview Cemetery, near Trenton 260 

Salem County 255 

Scudder's Falls 314 

Trenton .... 246, 252, 254, 259, 260, 260, 272, 278, 231 , 234 , 294, 302 

312, 346, 358, 359, 360, 376 

New York, Cunningham Island, Lake Erie 331 

Wisconsin, Hustisford 339 

Eudiometer 115,118,119 

Eulogies in report for 1874 18 

Eulogy on Alexander Volta 11<^ 

Evans, Dr. John C, on inscribed ax from New Jersey 260 

rough-liewn celts ~''^^ 

scrapers figured by 300 

member of archaeological commission 921,222 

on Indian implements 362 

on use of stone celts 201, 2G2, 307 

on stone implements 281,297,298,299,301 

on stone vessels 346 

on preparation of skins 365 

on Hint-implements 273,306,325 

on English stone chisels 319 

on slate-dril 1 327 

on mining-hammers 316 

Evans, W. W., antiquities and birds from '^8 

Evaporation ^^1 

and electricity 127 

Everett, Professor, results of researches of, on underground temperatures 18 

Exchange of government documents 31 

Exchanges, system of »-^> 27, 91, 103 

loss of, by shipwreck 29 

foreign, centers of distribution of 27,23 

rules respecting 29 



INDEX. 401 

Page. 
Exchanges requested by Societ.(5 Amoricaiiio do France; Royal Society of New 

South Wales 30 

Executive committee, report of 103 

Expenditures of Institution 104, 107 

Expenses to ho covered by appropriation of Congress for centennial dispbiy. 8 

Experiments on sound by C. Sondliauss 207 

petroleum 43 

on light-house illuniinants 43 

Explorations and surveys 51 

Ilaydcn 52 

Powell 52 

Wheeler 55 

Fabroni, theory of contact 135 

Faidherbe, General, found perforated skulls 243 

Faraday 153,155 

Fauna, fossil, table of 195 

Favre,Prof. Alph., on labors of Swiss geological commission 1G9 

relative to works of M. Belgrand and Mojsisovicz 173 

F6e, Antoine-Laurent-Apolliuaire 151. 103 

Fenzl, member of Imperial Academy 19G 

Ferguson, Maj. T. B., fishes and utensils from 78 

Ferns, memoir on, by F6e 164 

Ferrel, Professor, on winds 23 

Ferry, Hon. T. W., filled vacancy in Board of Eegeuts 7 

Regent of the Institution 99 

Vice-President of United States, ex-offwio member of the Institution 5 

Fever, study of the nature and mechanism of, by Horatio C. Wood, M. D 14 

Finances of Institution 10, 103 

Finck, Hugo, furnished American antiquities 49,78 

Finland, exchanges with government of 31 

Fiuley, Rev. J. B., on discoidal stones 367 

Finnisii Scientific Society, publications from 35 

Fire-llies introduced into Bermuda- 90 

Fire-tests for oils 44 

Fish commission, labors of the 44 

exhibition of, by E. G. Blackford 65 

application of, illustrated at the Centennial 65 

culture 44 

distiibution of 45 

Fish, Hon. II., ex-officio member of the Institution 5 

Fisher, Rev. Osmond, on form of Earth's surface 192 

Fisheries of the United States, exhibition illustrating the, at the Centennial ... 64 

Fishes, Centennial display of 63 

of the east coast of Xorth America, catalogue of, by Dr. Theodore Gill.. 13 

fossil, history of 158 

Fitch, F. A., coal, &c., from 78 

Fitbian, Dr. W., stone ax from 78 

Flint, Dr. Earl, stone implements from 78 

furnished American antiquities 49 

Flora, Brazilian 172 

fossil, table of 195 

Fliigol, Dr. Felix, agent of exchanges 27 

Flynt, W. N., & Co., granite from 78 

Fog-signals, investigations on 43 

Fol, Dr., ccBlenterates 171 

S. Mis. 115 26 



402 INDEX. 

Page. 

Fol, Dr., plan of manoiueter 165 

Foote, George B., mineral from 78 

Ford, Dr., furnished perforated skull 241 

Ford, Professor, researches 167 

level of waters 165, 168, 169 

researches 171 

Foreman, Prof. Edward, in charge of ethnological division 6 

Foreign corresponding institutions 28 

exchanges, centers of distribution of 27,28 

Missions, American Board of Commissioners for, in Boston, forwarded 

packages for Turkey 28 

Forests, influence of, on precipitation 198, 200 

Fossil fishes, history of... 158 

Foster, Hon. L. F. S., filled vacancy in Board of Regents 7 

Foster, Lieutenant, experiment of 215 

Fouch, F. W., fossils from 78 

Fowler, W. H., otter from 78 

Fox, W. H., skin from 78 

Fox, Col. Lane, on stone objects found at Cape of Good Hope 367, 368 

France, exchanges with government of 31 

Franklin solved problem of Leyden jar 116 

on analogy of thunder and electricity 120 

Free freight, tlia,nks to companies for 27 

Freiburg, University of, i^ublications from 35 

French commission 172 

Transatlantic Company, thanks to 27 

Friel, Joseph, stone and iron axes from 78 

Frogs, experiments on 127, 128, 129 

Fryer, C. G., sardines from 78 

Fuller, C. B., shells from 78 

Funds, condition of, of Institution at beginning of 1876 10 

Fungus, Dr. J. Miiller on 173 

Future of the human race 142 

Gabb, Professor William M., collections from 49,78 

Galericula calmaricusis, M. de Caudolle on 170 

Gallon, hereditary genius 147 

Galton, Mr., on stone implements 300,301 

Galvani, Dr., experiments of 127, 128 

Galvin, Thomas, stone pestle from 78 

Garrett, A., shells from 78 

Gas, inflammable, of marshes, Volta's statement relative to 117 

Gasparin, observations by 202 

Gattunger, Dr. August, mosses from 78 

Gautier, Colonel, Libors in astronomy 165 

Gautier, Prof. A., observations 1(39 

labors of, relative to labors of Vogel 173 

Gay-Lussac, tested eudiometer 119 

Geneva, Society of Physics and Natural History of, transactions of the 18, 151 

Geological commission, Swiss 1G9 

survey of Canada distributes exchanges 28 

of the Territories, collections from, (see Hayden, Powell, 

Wheeler, *fcc. ) 89 

Geologist, investigations of the 186 

Geology, labors in, of Geneva Society - 169 

Principles of, bj^ Sir Charles Lyell 378 



INDEX. 403 

Pa-o. 

Geology and astronomy, connection between 177 

the past and future of 175 

Geography, botanical 172 

Georgia, purchase and sale of stocks of 105 

German Society of Naturalists and Physicians 152 

Giangue, Florian, Celt bark-peelers from 78 

Gibson, J. P., rocks from 78 

Gilbert, G. K., explorations by 53 

Gilchrist, James, mineral from 78 

Gill, Herbert A., bats from 78 

Gill, Prof. Theo., collaborator in zoology fi 

prepared catalogue of fishes of the east coast of North America . lo 

Gilliss, Capt. James, U. S. A., zoological specimens from 47, 78 

Gillman, Henry, ancient man of Michigan 234 

Glacial period, effects of 193 

Glaciers, extension of 160 

Glover, Towuend, carp from 79 

Goethe, theory of colors 37 

Gottingeu, University of, publications from 35 

Goitre 172 

Gosse, Dr. Andre Louis 151 

Gold interest, premium on 104 

Golden, H. W., land-locked smelt from 79 

Goode, G. Brown, collections from 79 

assistant curator of museum 6 

in charge of animal products at Centennial Exhibition 47 

Government board of exhibitors 8 

documents, exchange of 31, 91 

explorations and surveys 51 

Grant, U. S., President of United States, ex-officio member of the Institution.. 5 

Grant, M. N., soda from 79 

Grant, William, snake from 79 

Gray, Arthur F., shells from 79 

Gray, Dr., notes on Prof, do Candolle's article on dominant language for science . 18 

Gray, Prof. Asa, Regent of tho Institution 100 

Great Britain, ancient stone impl'imeuts of 281, 301, 306, 307, 312, 316, 325, 336, 3 16, 

355, 362 

exchanges with government of 31 

Grebenau, Mr., heights of wattjr 197 

Green, H. A., copper spear from 79 

Green, Monroe A., sturgeon from 79 

Green well, Mr., on Indian implements 280 

Gregory, Dr., experiments on sonnd 213 

Gregory, S. S., hornet's nest from 79 

Grey, Steplien, publication of 120 

Griffin, Miss M, E., clerk in charge of distribution of publications 6 

Griswold's B. B., School, Indian relics from 79 

Gruber, F., skull and skin of soa-lion from 79 

Gunnell, T. M., U. S. N., feather coat from 79 

Gustave, M., on vitality of seeds 172 

Haeckel on protomoyxa 1~1 

Haeckwoldor, M., on mortars, pestles, &c 359 

Hagen, F., objections to G. Wex's assertions 196 

Haidah Indians, by James G. Swan 12 

canoe furnished by Mr. Swan 69 



404 INDEX. 

Page. 

Haigh, Dr. A. V., Indian implement from 79 

Hale, Dr., orthoptera specimens from 79 

Hail, phenomenon of 135 

Halle, University of, publications from 35 

Hamburg, exchanges with government of 31 

American Packet Company, thanks to , 27 

Hamilton bequest 103, 104 

Hamilton, E. J., Indian arrow-straightener from 79 

Hamlin, Hon. H., Regent of the Institution 99 

Hamy, M., on perforated skull from Grotto of Lorde 243 

Hanloy, Sylvanus, mollusks from 79 

Hardenburgh, A. R., ores from 79 

Hardenburgh, G. R., bird-skins from 79 

Harkness, James, bone from 79 

Harmonies of the solar system, by Prof. Stephen Alexander 12 

Harper, G. W., shells from 79 

Hart, J. P., crystals from 79 

Hartley, Sir Charles, publications from 35 

Harvey & Holden, specimen of rallus virginiana from 79 

Hathaway, G. W., ore from 79 

Haven, Williams & Co., skins from 79 

Hayden, Professor, report of, de la Harpe relative to 173 

reports of, distributed through Institution 30 

explorations by 51 

Hazard, Joseph P., minerals from 79 

Hazelton, Mr., expiration of term of, as Regent 7 

Heat produced by electricity 132, 133 

central, of globe 189 

Heating apparatus, appropriation by Congress for extension of 8, 109 

Heidelberg, University of, publications from 35 

Helsingfors, University of, publications from 35 

Hempstead, G. S. B., ethnologica from 80 

Henderson, J. H., skins, &c., from 80 

Henry, Professor, Secretary of Board of Regents 99 

director of Smithsonian Institution G 

report of, for the year 1875 7 

notes on earthquakes in North Carolina 18 

circular respecting Government exchanges 32 

trustee of the Corcoran Art Gallery 41 

procures information respecting perforated skulls 238 

letter from, respecting organization of local scientific socie- 
ties 216 

observations on sound by 211 

labors of, on the Light-House Board 42 

letter from, to Congress transmitting report 3 

Henry, Paul, discovered asteroid 36, 37 

Henry, Prosper, discovered asteroid 37 

Henry, M. A., translations by 151, 196 

Ilering, Dr. C. J., skulls, implements, &c., from 80 

Herpetology, North American, contribution to the 14,15 

Herran, Thomas V., orchids from ^ 80 

Herrendea n. Captain, pseudopria can thus altus, from 80 

Herrou, Joseph, janitor 6 

Herschel, Sir J., on sound ; physical geography 215 

Heyman, Isaac, mineral from 80 



INDEX. 405 

Page. 

Hildebrandt, H., member of committee on symbols for arcb.-eological charts.. :i21 

Ililgard, Professor, on tides, &,c 15 

Hilgard, M., relative to alf;;u ami mosses 173 

Hill, A. F., pottery from 80 

Hill, Hon. B. n., Regent of the Institution 90 

apiiointed Regent 7, 9'J 

Hill, Dr. II. H., casts of stone implements from ^0 

Hillers, J. K., photographs taken by 55 

Hisinger, iraportanco of labors of 132 

History of Louisiana 36G 

of fossil fishes 158 

Hoar, M., expiration of term as Regent 7 

Hodermau, Henry, egg from 80 

Hoepli, U., agent for exchanges 28 

Hoffman, Professor, rain-fall 193 

observations by 165 

Holmes, F. S., ancient pottery from 80 

Hopkins, Mr., researches of 181 

hypothesis of 192 

Holston Salt and Plaster Company, salts and plasters from 80 

Hooper, W. E., & Sons, nets from 80 

Hoskinson, R. M., shells from 80 

Hough, Daniel, cast of stone implement from 60 

Hough, Dr. R. B., Indian relics from 80 

Hough, Louis S., stone pestles from 80 

Houston, Edward, stone implements from 80 

Hoy, Dr. P. R., fishes from 80 

Hoyt, B. F., nnionidaj from 80 

Hoyt, L H., shells from 80 

Howe, H. M., minerals from 80 

Howland, J. S., bull-whip from 80 

Humbert, M., relative to observations of Fritz Miiller 173 

Humboldt 119,158,159,160 

observation of sound 213 

Hunt, J. H., unionidaj, &c., from 80 

Hunter's Manners and Customs of Indian Tribes 358 

Huston, Lieut. J. T.,U. S. A., beetle from 80 

Hutchinson, S. G., skins from 80 

Hutchinson, II. M., Chinese dog from 80 

Huttou, philosojihy of 180 

Huxley, Professor, origin of Indians 378 

Hyatt, H. O., M. D., fisiies from 80 

Illinois State library, publications from 35 

Index, Botanical, in preparation 13 

Indian burial, Los Kiel on 350 

vocabularies 18 

Bureau, co-operation with the 48, 70 

Indiana, purchase and sale of stocks of 105 

Indians, North American, mission to 319 

North American, Catliu's -S^O 

Induction 110,127 

Inman Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

Insects, experiments on 1 -'2 

Institutions, foreign corresponding 23 

Integrals of Planetary Motion, by Prof. Simon Ne wcomb 12 



400 INDEX. 

Page. 

Interior Department, co-operation with 48,70 

collection from 89 

payments for National Museum by 110 

Investigations on sound and fog-signals 43 

Ireland, national manuscripts of 36 

Iron, compositions of 1*^0 

Iroquois Indians 356,362 

Irwin, Dr. B.J. D., Tucson meteorite 51 

Isotherm through earth's crust 191, 192 

Isothermal charts 26 

Jamieson, T. F., researches of 198 

James, Sir Henry, national manuscripts of Ireland from 36 

Jena, University of, publications from 35 

Janeway, John H., gophers from 80 

Jelinek 196 

Jenkins, Admiral T. A., U. S. N., member of board in behalf of the Executive 

Departments ^^ 

Jewell, Hon. Marshall, ex-officio member of the Institution 5 

Jewell, Hon. Harvey, fishes from 80 

Jewitt, English lance-head 270 

Johnson, Luis, Indian ^jottery from 73 

Johnston, F. H., fishes from 81 

Jones, W. H., Surgeon, U. S. N., human skulls from 81 

Jones, Rev. CM., wing of hawk from 81 

Jones, C. C, on Savannah Eivor swamp-caaoe 319 

Journal of Board of Regents 99 

Kaehler, F., skull from 81 

Kancher, William, minerals from 81 

Keim, M., insects from ^1 

Kempton, C. W., minerals from 81 

Kercheval, A. W., coal from 81 

Kerguelen Island, birds of, by Dr. J. H. Kidder, U. S. N 16 

climatology of 17 

Kershner, Dr., U. S.N., collections from 49,81 

Kidd, Dr 1~<^ 

Kidder, Dr. J. H., U. S. N., birds of Kerguelen Island 16, 81 

collections from 49 

King, C. J., skin of porcupine from 81 

Kinnett, White, wooden shovel from 81 

Kinney, Thomas W., photographs of Indian relics 81 

Kirchhoif , researches of 1~7 

Kirkby, W. W., natural history, specimens from 81 

Kjerulf, Dr., lava-dust from 81 

Knapp, Dr. James, stone implements from 81 

Kuight, Joseph, minerals from 81 

Koberlin, Frederick, M. D., map from 81 

Kratachoil, Dr. J., pottery from 81 

Laiug,Dr. J. M., U.S. N., bat-fish from 81 

Lamp, perpetual 11^> 118 

Land Office, collections from 89 

Langvillo, Rev. .T. 1 1., insects from 81 

Lapham, Dr. I. A., shells from 81 

on animal mounds of Wisconsin 339 

Lapham, I. G., model of animal mounds from 81 

on calumets '^'11 



INDEX. 407 

Pafc<>. 

Laplace, observations by ] -it) 

eiilogj- ou, by Arago 18 

Lard-oil, Professor Henry's experiments on 41? 

Lartet and Christy, Hint implements 268 

ou mortars in Enrope ;M7, ;548 

Latham, James II,, fishes, ifec., from 81 

Latimer, George, bequest of, to Smithsonian Institution 48 

Latimer, W. H., relics from 81 

Lavoisier, observations by 1'2G 

Leavenworth, J. H., deer, &c., from 81 

Le Baron, J. Francis, birds and insects from 81 

Ledyard, L. W., pottery and stone implements from 81 

Leech, Daniel, corresponding clerk 6 

Leemans, member of arch»ological connuissiou 221, 222 

Leipzig, University of, publications from 35 

Lemonnior, observations by 117, 122 

Le Monstier implement 2G7 

Lemstrom, Professor, on electricity and aurora borealis 18 

Lerch, P., member of arch;ieological commission 221, 222 

Le Roy and Darcy made first electrometer 123 

Letter from Secretary to Congress, transmitting report 3 

Clerk of the House on appointment of Regents 99 

Lewis, Dr. James, iu charge of shells at Ceuteunial Exhibition 48 

labors of, upon shells 50 

Lewis, Albert E., pottery from 82 

Lewis and Clarke, expedition up the Missouri 301,303 

Leyden jar 115,110,123 

Library : 

Admiralty, board of, London, publications from 35 

Ambrosiau Library, Milan, publications from 35 

Basel, University of, publications from 35 

Berlin, University of, publications from 35 

Bonn, University of, publications of „ 35 

Bowes, James L., publications from 35 

Breslau, University of, publications of 35 

British government, publications from 34 

Buenos Ayres, public library of, publications from 35 

Chili, University of, publications from 34 

Dorpat, University of, publications from 35 

Erlangen, University of, publications of 35 

Finnish Scientific Society, publications from 35 

Freiburg, University of, pul>lications of 35 

Gottingen, University of, ])ublications of 35 

Ilalle, University of, publications from 35 

Hartley, Sir Cliarles, publications from 35 

Heidelberg, University of, i»ublications from 35 

H(!lsingfors, University of, publications from 35 

Illinois, State library of, publications from 35 

Jena, University of, publications from - 35 

Leipzig, University of, publications from 35 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa, Canada, publications from 35 

Maharajah of Travancose, i)nl)lications from 34 

M.'irburg, University of, publications from 35 

Ministry of War, St. I'etersbnrg, publications from 34 

Norway, Royal University of, publications from 35 



408 INDEX. 

Page. 
Library : 

Publishers, Paris, publications from 35 

Rostock, University of, publications from 35 

Eoyal Library, Stockholm, publications from 35 

Statistics, bureau of, at Stockholm, publications from 35 

Statistics of 33, 91 

Vermont, State library of, publications from 35 

Ziirich, University of, publications from 35 

Light-House Board, labors of Professor Henry, on the 42 

Light-houses, illuminants for 43 

Lightning-rods 121,124,125 

Lillard, John B., stone pestle, &c., from 82 

Lindheimer, Dr. F., stone implemen^s from 82 

Lindstrohm, Dr. G., invertebrates from 82 

Lloyd, C, minerals, fossils, &c., from 82 

Lloyd, L. W., lignite from 82 

Lockwood, George M., 56 

Lockwood, Rev. S., specimens from 331,373 

Lockyer, researches of 177, 178, 179, 180 

Loew, Dr. Oscar, connection of, with the Wheeler expedition 42 

in charge of laboratory, analyses made by 42 

steatite from 82 

Lombard, Dr., on report of the French commission 172 

Loskiel, customs of Indians 259, 277, 278, 282, 283, 349, 350, 356, 358, 359, 362 

Loudorback, W. H., arrow-points from 82 

Louisiana, history of 366 

Lubbock, Sir John, pre-historic times 252, 262, 266, 267, 268 

on antiquities.. 263, 285, 286, 298, 300, 302, 308, 309, 312, 320, 336, 366, 

371, 3T8 

Lucas, David, seeds from 82 

Lucernaria, Prof. H.J.Clark, on 13 

Ludington, C, fishes from 82 

Liitken, C. R., contributed types of South American fishes 47 

Liitken, Prof. C, fishes from 82 

Lutt witz, Lieut. A. H. von, U. S. A., skin of golden eagle from 82 

Lund, M., on eels 1~0 

Lull, Comr. E. P., U. S. N., pottery from 82 

Lyford, Dr. William H., hematite ax from 82 

Lyell, Sir Cbarles, principles of geology 378,380 

Lyford, Col. S. C, U. S. A., member of board in behalf of the Executive De- 
partments 5^ 

Maass, M., objections toG. Wex's assertions 196 

McAdoo, W. G., Indian relics from 82 

McChesuey, Charles E., ducks from 82 

McClcllan, Dr. E., U. S. A., skull of woodchuck 82 

McClintock, Frank, earth from 82 

McCrary, Dr. E. W., minerals and ethnologica from 82 

McCrary, Hon. George W., appointed Regent 7, 99 

Regent of the Institution 99 

McDonald, Dr. Cbarles F., member of board in behalf of the Executive Depart- 
ments ^^ 

Mcllvaine, A. R., stone implements from 8'-^ 

McKenzie, Dr. N. K., Indian implements from 82 

McKinley, William, ethnologica from 82 

MacLean, Rev. Dr. John, report of executive committee.. HI 



INDEX. 409 

Page. 

MacLean, Rev. Dr. John, Regent of the Institution 99 

McLeod, Rev. R. R., furnished luammals from Maine 47 

zoological 8pecimon.s from 82 

McMahon, James, coral from 82 

McWilliams, Dr., slciu from 82 

Macy, S. W., implements from 82 

Maelen, Van der, author of archreological charts of Belgium 222 

Magnesium, compositions of 178, 180 

Maharajah of Travancose, publications from 34 

Mailiy, eulogy on Quetelet 18 

Mallet, Robert, researches of 181 

theory of 192, 193 

Maloue, D. R., ethnologica from 82 

Maltz,an, Baron von, shells from 82 

Mammals, Centennial display of 63 

Man, descent of, Darwin's 150 

ancient, in Michigan 234 

early history of 271 

prehistoric 316,317,337 

Manometer, plan of, M. Fol 165 

M. Archard 166 

Manigault, Dr. G. E., skeletons from 82 

Mann, A. S., specimens from 82 

Mansfield, Henry, computations of winds by 21 

Manu8crii)ts, fac-similes of Irish 36 

Map constructed by W.L.Nicholson 61 

to illustrate the results of meteorological labors 27 

Marburg, University of, publications from 35 

Marcet, Fraugois 154, 155 

relative to Tyudall's investigations 174 

Marcy, J. E., turtle from 82 

Marianini, M., results obtained by 132 

Marignac, Professor, memoirs and experiments by 170 

Marinoni, C, member of committee on symbols for archajological charts 221 

Marly-la-Ville, experiments of 122 

Marshall, Lient. William L., explorations by ^^6 

Marsupials described by Dr. Buckland 176 

Marshes, burning 117 

Martin, Dudley A., Indian relics from 82 

Martin, Horace, pottery from 83 

Mason, Prof. O. T., collaborator in ethnology 6, 67 

translation by 221 

on certain customs of Dyaks of Borneo 238, 239 

Mathematics, study of, by Quetelet 165 

Mather, Fred., fishes from 83 

Matuld, Juan Ygnacio, specimens of ernptions of volcano from 83 

Maurice, observations by 202 

Maury, M. F., coal from 83 

Mazyck, William G., Unios from 83 

Meek, Prof. F. B., collaborator in palaiontology 6 

reptiles, &c., from 83 

Megalosaurus described by Dr. Buckland 176 

Megasphaera plannla 171 

Meigs, General M. C., geological specimens from 83 

Jlrs. M. C, collectiou of birds from 83 



410 INDEX, 

Page. 

Mercer, Dr. F. W., stouo implements from 83 

K.W., stone implements from 83 

Merrill, Dr. J. C, U.S. A., skins from 83 

Meteorite, Tncsou, history of 51 

Meteorology, labors in, of Geneva Society 167 

work on rai n-fall 19 

winds of the globe 20 

labors of the Institution in the line of 19 

miscellaneous work done in 26 

Micheli, Marc, relative to observations of M. Prilleux 173 

Brazilian flora 172 

Micheli, experiment on attraction of terrestrial bodies 126 

Middleton & Carman, fishes from 83 

Middletown, Conn., Wesley an University, specimens from 83 

Mills, Clark, shark's tooth from 83 

Milner, James W. (See United States Fish Commissioner.) 

Mineral resources, display of, at the Centennial Exhibition 61,63 

Mineralogy, inquiries respecting 40 

Ministry of War, St. Petersburgh, publications from 34 

Miscellaneous collections 11 

Missions to North American Indians 349,358,362 

MoUendorf, comparison of rain-fall 198,200,201 

Moffatt, E. S., iron-ores from 83 

Moggride, M., observations by 171 

Mojsisovicz, M., work of, Alph. Favre relative to 173 

Monograph of American wasps, b j' Professor de Saussu re 13 

Monroe, Charles E., fossils from 83 

Monsoon influence. • 21 

Moore, N. B., skin from 83 

Moores, H., shells from 83 

Moran, Dr. George H., U. S. A., Rallus Virgiuia.nus from 83 

Morgan, S. B., coal from 83 

Morin, General, on warming and ventilation 18 

Morley, J. E., locusts from 83 

Morris, S. F., iron-ores from 83 

Morrison, Lieut. C. C, explorations by 56 

Morse, Charles H., book from 83 

Mortillet, G. de, member of archixjological commission 221 , 222 

Morton, Dr. Samuel P., stone pipe sent to 333 

Motion, x)lanetary, integrals of, by Prof. Simou Newcomb 12 

Motive powers, discovery of 38 

Mliller, F., agent of exchanges 27 

Miiller, Fritz, observations of, M. Humbert relative to 173 

Miiller, Dr. J., on fungus 173 

Mummies, Aleutian 48 

Munn, J., oils and bone from whale from 83 

Museum, National 46, 109 

collaborators of 6 

bulletin ot the 14 

contributions to, in 1875 47 

work done in connection with the 50 

additions to the collections in - 72 

extensions of space required by 71 

appropriation by Congress for 8 



INDEX. 411 

Page. 
Museum, National, modificatious desirablo of conuectiou between Sniitlisoiiian 

Institution and 8, 9 

expenses of 103 

officers and assistants of 6 

increase of contents of, through Centennial Exhibition 8 

of comparative zoology 1G2 

Musters, George C, on weapons of Tehuelcho Indians 3Go, v5G3 

Myer, General, assistance of, in preparation of new edition of work on rain-fall. 19 

Nature, constants of, tables by Prof. F. W. Clarke 14 

Natural history, inquiries respecting 40 

Navajo Indians, dresses, *&c., of the, contributed by Col. William Arny 45 

Navigation, Bureau of, collections from 89 

Navy Department, collections from 89 

Nebraska, packages received for distribution in 93 

Necrological notices ' 151 

Netherlands, exchanges with government of 81 

Newbury, Dr. C, zoological specimens from 83 

Newbold, Joseph, presented banner-stones 334 

presented stone hoe 352 

implement in possession of 372 

Newbold, Michael, skinning-knives in collection of , 30G 

implements in cabinet of 316, 318 

stone ornaments in cabinet of 329 

pipe in cabinet of 342 

stone hoe in cabinet of 352 

shovel in cabinet of 355 

liestles in cabinet of 359,360 

Newcomb, Prof. Simon, on general integrals of planetary motion 12 

New Jersey Zinc Company, zinc and minerals from 83 

Newton, Dr., fossils from 83 

New York and Brazil Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

and Mexico Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

Niagara falls, to bo utilized as power 20 

Nicholson, W. L., map constructed by Gl 

Nickell, G. W., minerals from 83 

Nickerson, George Y., skins from 83 

Nickolson, importance of labors of 132 

Nile, water of, Raoul Pictet on 169 

Nilsson, Professor, on antiquities.. 262, 273, 285, 290, 298, 302, 310, 315, 322, 351, 3G1, 364, 

365, 366, 370, 375, 376 

Nimrod Furnace Company, minerals from 84 

Nollet, experiment of 116, 120, 123 

North Baltic Lloyd Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

North German Lloyd Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

Norton, .John V., ethnologica from 84 

Norton, J. B., collection of antiquities from Peru 49 

Nucleus, central molten 192 

Officers of National Museum 6 

Smithsonian Institution 5, 6 

Oil, sperm, lard, and petroleum for light-liouses 43 

Oolite, great 175 

Ord., General E. O. C, connection made with base-line measured by 56 

Oersted, importance of labors of 132 

Organization of local scientific societies, letter from Professor Henry respecting 216 



412 INDEX. 

Page. 

Ornithological collections, Dr. Kidder's, Dr. Coues on ... i 17 

Orvis, Charles F., Orvis fishing-reel from 84 

Otis, Colonel, skull and fossil wood from 84 

Oiideslys, Charles L., oil from 84 

Ourley, J. B., flint hatchets and fossils from 84 

Owen Hou.se, Washington, D. C, oystor-fish from 84 

Oxygen, compositions of 180 

Oyster industry exhibited at the Centennial 66 

Pacific Guano Company, materials for making guano from 84 

Mail Steamship Company, thanks to 27 

transported Tucson meteorite free of charge 51 

Steam-Navigation Company, thanks to 27 

Palisa, J., discovered asteroids 36, 37 

Palmer, Joseph, taxidermist 6 

Palmer, Dr. E., collections from 84 

Palmer, F. W., stone beads from 84 

Panama Railroad Company, thanks to 27 

transported Tucson meteorite free of charge 51 

Papyrus, Egyptian, photograph of, from Mr. John S. Edgar 36 

Pardon, W. P., ethnologica from 84 

Parish, Grant, egg from 84 

Parker, Hon. Peter, Regent of the Institution 99 

member of executive committee of Board of Regents. ..99, 102, 111 

eulogy on Henry Wilson 101 

Parry, Captain, polar expedition 215 

Parrott, R. D. H., mineral wood from 84 

Patterson, Holmes A., stone implement from 84 

Patterson, Dr. D. C, lignite from 84 

Peabody Museum, ethnological collection of the 238 

Pease, Harper, mollusca from 84 

Perkins on Indian relics from Vermont 343, 359 

Peters, C. H. F., discovered asteroids 36 

Petroleum, experiments on 43 

Phenomena, mechanical, on surface of globe 186 

natural, value of experience with respect to 187, 188 

electrical, ascribed to certain fluids 125 

Phillips, Professor, Joseph Prestwich relative to 175 

Phillips, William, ethnological and natural historical specimens from 84 

Philosophical Magazine, Dr. Gregory's experiments on sound quoted from 213 

Phoenix Mines, minerals from 84 

Photographic likenesses, collection of 42 

Photograph of Egyptian papyrus, from Mr. John S. Edgar 36 

Photographs by T. W. SmlUie 6,42 

from Professor Hayden's survey 52 

of fishes at Centennial G3, 64 

Photography, new building for 42, 109 

Photozincography 36 

Physics, labors in, of Geneva Society 165 

of the globe, by Quetelet 164 

Pictet, Raoul, observations by 166 169 

Pierce, E. G., piece of Sir William Pepperell's house from 84 

Pierce, , arrow-points from 84 

Pierrepont, Hon. E., ex-officio member of the Institution 5 

Pike, R. G., salmon from 84 

Pile, voltaic 127,131,155 



INDEX. 413 

Page. 

Pisciculture illustrated at the Ccntcuuial G6 

Pilchcr, Eev. Dr., fouud perforated skull 241 

Planetary inotiou, integrals of, by Prof. Siniou Newcomb 12 

Planets, chemical coustitutiou of the 180 

Plaiitamour, Prof. Eniile 105 

obscrvatious by 1G7, 168 

Plaster casts 41, 42,03,64, G5 

Playfair, philosophy of 186 

Pliny , 115,122,125 

Plumner, Sumner J. , salmon from 77 

Poey, Dr. Felipe, distributes exchanges 23 

Sarothrodus amplexicollis from 84 

Poggeudorff, M 165 

Aunalen 203 

Polaris expedition, scientific results of 45 

Polarization, M. Soret on 106 

Pole, labors of 221 

Pomeroy, Mrs. Mary H., Indian clothing from 84 

Potter, ElihuH., eel from 84 

Pourtal(5s, Louis de, assisted in purchase of Agassiz's collections 160 

Powell, Samuel, stone ax, fishes, &c., from 84 

collections from 47 

Powell, Prof. J. W., explorations by 17, 18, 52 

collections from 48, 49, 55, 67, 84 

Powers, Stephen, collections from 67, 68, 84 

Precipitation, influence of forests on 193, 200 

Ebermayer on 202 

(5ee Rain-fall.) 

Prehistoric times 55, 285, 302, 308, :512, 306, 371 

Pressure of the atmosphere, work on, contemplated 26 

connection between wind and 22 

Prestwich, Joseph, lecture by 175 

Prevost, Alexander 151 

Prevost, Dr., relative to cerebral system 173, 174 

Price, Henry M., amethystine quartz from 84 

Prillieux, M., observations of , 173 

Prin, Trowand & Co., reduced rates of freight 27 

Prior, William, jr., & Co., specimens from 84 

Providence, R. I., Brown University, skin of fish from 84 

Przedziecki, Count A., member of committep on symbols for archjBological 

charts 221 

Pruni(5ros, Dr., on neolithic skulls of theLoztire 212,243 

Publications, classification of 11 

rules for distribution of 12 

received in 1875 34 

expenses 107 

Publishers, Paris, publications from 35 

Pulsif er, Sidney, stone axes and pottery from 84 

Putnam, F. W., on pestles 359 

Pybas, Ben., stono implements and coal-plant from 85 

I'y thagoras 125 

Quail, William, moths from 85 

Quetclet, eulogy on, by Mailly 18 

Jacques, Adolpho, Lambert 151, 164 

Race, human, the i)robable future of the 142 



414 INDEX. 

Page. 

Races, intermingling of 143 

enumeration of 143 

extinction of savage 148 

characteristics of 143 

Rain-fall in Loudon, G.J. Symonds on 199 

in Paris, by Mari6 Davy 199 

comparison of 198 

in North America, investigations in, by Smithsonian Institution 200 

work on 

new edition in preparation of work on 19 

Eain-bearing wiuds 20 

Randle, Mrs. E. H., Indian relics from 85 

Rau, Prof, Chas., collaborator in ethnology 6 

classification of ethnological specimens by 41 

in charge of ethnology at Centennial Exhibition 47,69 

on drilling in stone 325,333,334 

on agricutural implements 351, 352, 353, 354, 355 

Rawson, Governor, shell-chisels from 85 

Raymond Coal Company, coal from 85 

Receipts of Institution 104 

Regents, Board of, journal of 99 

changes in 7 

List of 5 

(See Resolutions.) 

Reliquiaj aquitanica) 268,348 

Remains, organic 183 

(See Ethnology.) 

Renfrew, G. R.,& Co., furs from 85 

Repayments to the Institution 108 

Report, annual, for 1874 13 

of committee of Regents on death of Hon. Henry Wilson 100 

of Prof. Joseph Henry for the year 1875 7 

British Association 210 

printing of, ordered by Congress 2 

Professor Henry's letter to Congress transmitting 3 

relative to memoir of G. Wex upon diminution of waiter in rivers and 

streams 196 

daily, of the weather, received at the Signal-Office 19 

Reptilia and batrachia, chock-list of North American, by Prof. Edward D. 

Cope 14 

Reptiles, Centennial display of 63 

Researches, expenses of 107 

in archaeology 67 

Professor Everett's, on underground temperatures, results of 18 

meteorology 19 

by Professor Forel .*. 167 

Resolution of Board of Regents respecting connection of Institution and Na- 
tional Museum 102 

acceptance of report of Secretary 102 

salary of chief clerk 102 

carriage for use of Institution 102 

death of Hon. Henry Wilson 99, 100 

adoptiugannnalrcportof Executive Committee 10 

of Congress respecting exchange of public documents 31,32 

printing of report 2 



INDEX. 415 

Page. 

Kespiffhi, observations by 165 

Reynolds, Professor Osborne, on iiillucuce of wind on sound 211 

temperature on sound 43, 212 

researches on sound by 214, 215 

Rhea, Maj. Alexander, Indian relics from 85 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk G 

Rhode Island, packages received for <listribution in 95 

Rhumatoides, Dr. Gosso on 153 

Richman, death of 122 

Ricksecker, E., skin and egg from 85 

Ridgway, Prof. Robert, in charge of ornithological division 6 

collection of vines from 85 

Ridgway, C. W., collections from 85 

Ried, James, M. D., skulls from 85 

Riggs & Co., Virginia bonds 106 

Risler, E., observations by 202 

Robeson, Hon. G. M., ex-officio member of the Institution 5 

Robertson, Augusta, fossil fern from 85 

Robertson, J. L., mineral from 85 

Robertson, W. S., sediment from 85 

Robertson, Capt. Zephaniah, sperm-whale's jaw from 85 

Roessler, F. E., ethnologica from 85 

Romas de Nerac, experiment of 122 

Romer, F., member of archaeological commission 221,222 

Roney, C. J., geological specimens from 85 

Ropes, E. E. , Indian pottery from 85 

Rostock, University of, publications from 35 

Rothrock, Dr. J. T., explorations by 56 

Rouchette, Gustave, observations by 171, 172 

Royal Academy of Scionces at Lisbon distributes exchanges 28 

library, Stockholm, publications from 35 

Society, proceedings of 211, 213,215,216 

Academy of Sciences at Madrid distributes exchanges 28 

Danish Society distributes exchanges 28 

Society of New South Wales requests exchanges 30 

University of Norway distributes exchanges 28, 35 

Rudasilk, J. M., minerals from 85 

Rules for distribution of Smithsonian publications 11 

Russell, Benjamin, fishes from 85 

collections from 50 

Ryder, Stephen A., seal from 85 

Sacramento, Gal., Agassiz Institute, stone implemetfts from 85 

Saemann, M. L., absorption of water 203 

Salvin, O.sbcrt, birds, &c., from 85 

Sanborn, J. K., fossils from 85 

San Diego, Gal., Academy of Sciences of, collections from 85 

Sarasin, Edouard 155, 156 

Sargent, Hon. A. A., ores from 85 

Regent of the Institution 99 

Sarg, F. E., contributed skin of Honduras turkey 47 

Honduras turkey from 85 

Saunders, William, member of board in behalf of the Executive Departments. 58 

Savoy, Louis, petrified wood from 85 

Sawyer, F. M., member of board in behalf of the Executive Departments 58 

Scandinavia, stone ago in 262,285, 290, 310, 315, 322, 351, 361, 365, 366 



416 INDEX. 



Scarborough, J. V. B., reptiles and shells from 85 

Schayer Brothers, articles from alligator leather from 85 

Schlutter.M., fossil Crustacea 173 

Schmidt, V., member of committee on symbols for archseological charts 221 

Schneck, J., implements from 85 

Schoolcraft on antiquities 288,289,292,331,360,307,368 

Schott, Charles A., temperature tables by 12,24 

on underground temperatures i 18 

Schuermann, Carl W.,bird from 85 

Schnlhof discovered asteroid 37 

Schumacher, Paul, ethnologica from 85 

collections from , 48 

explorations by ; collections made by 68 

Scientific societies, organization of local 217 

Professor Henry's letter respecting 217 

object of 217 

management of 218 

cooperation of Smithsonian Institution with 219 

Scientific association of Cracow, symbols for archaeological charts by 221 

Scudder, John H.,lent stone hammer 314 

Scupham, J. R., spermophile from 86 

Seeds, O. H., skull from 86 

Seneca 125 

Sevey, J. A., collection from 86 

Shardlow, Joseph, carvings from 86 

Shearer, J. S.,8orolite from 86 

Shepard, C. U., minerals from 80 

Shepard, E. W., Indian relics from 86 

Sherman, J. M., mineral from 86 

Shipwreck, loss of exchanges by 29 

Shirley & Son, fish-hatching apparatus from 86 

Shotwell, J. R , smelts from 86 

Shute, J. G., stone sinker from 86 

Sibley, P. B., stone implements from 86 

Signal Office, transfer of meteorological system to the ; condition of the mete- 
orological system of the ; daily weather reports received at the . 19 

collections from the 89 

Silicon, compositions of 180 

Slagle, J. W., stone implements from 86 

Slater, W. F., ammonite from 86 

Slocum, George, fish from 80 

Smillie, T. W., in charge of i^hotogtaphic laboratory 6, 42 

Smith, William, the father of English geology 175 

Smith, Edwin, collections from 50,86 

Smith, A. F., ore from 86 

Smith, Rev. CD., minerals from 86 

Smith, E. J., chain from cherry and peach pits from 86 

Smithson's bequest, object of 9, 10 

Smithsonian Institution, modifications desirable in connection between • the 

museum and the 8,9 

officers and Regents of the 5,6 

Snyder, Dr. J. F., Indian implements from 86 

Societ6 Araericaine de France, request of, for exchanges 30 

Society of Italy 152 

Solar system, origin of 177 



INDEX. 4 I 7 

Solar system, birraouies of the, by Pi-of. Stephen Alexaiuk-r 12 

atinosphore, discoveries respecting 177, ITS 

elements in 177 

Sondhauss, Carl, on acoustic refraction 'ji)7 

Soret, M., relative to methods of il. 15rc(iiierel 174 

on polarization l,;(j 

Sonnd, investigations on, by Professor Henry 4!' 

motion , laws of 207 

refraction of 205 

waves of 205,20G, 212, 21? 

Sonthwick, J. M. K., tishing-tackle from. ,^0 

Spain, exchanges with government of :{1 

Spangler, George, collections from H', 

Spectrum an.alysis IdO 

Spencer, Herbert, principles of biology 147, 148 

Spix, M., description of fishes of Brazil by 157 

Spoflbrd, A. R., government exchanges from '.'2 

Spondylus santonensis, impression of, in stone mortar 348 

Sprague, Stephen, ore from 8t] 

Spring, J. A., collections from ^ 80 

Spur Mountain Iron Mining Company, minerals from 8i) 

S(piier and Davis on auticiuities, on discoidal stone. .2'(G, 257, 271, 21)!), :?0:5, :{04, 300, 1516, 

318, 327, 329, 332, 333, 334, 339, 340, 341, 3 15, 367, 3ti9 

Stanago, S. W., shells from Sii 

Stanforth, Richard, cat-fish from S-O 

Stiintou, Clarence L., ethnological specimens from f'G 

Stapff, M., researches of 17H 

State stocks, cost of and sale of 1 u5 

State Department, collections from -9 

Statistics of library and scientific exchanges 29,91 

Statistics, bureau of, Stockholm, publications from 35 

Stefan, member of Imperial Academy 196 

Steinberg, Mr., collection from... 49 

Steinberger, Col. A. 13., collection from 86 

Stephens, F., bird-skin from bt\ 

Sternberg, Charles W., eggs and birds from SG 

Stevens, Dr. T. S., on anvils 297 

Stevens, E. T., describes flint implements from Honduras 372 

Stevens, II. A., decoy-ducks from i'ii 

Stevens, D. W., sucker from 87 

Stevenson, James, skin and skeleton of hare 87 

Stevenson, Hon. J. W., Regent of the Institution 99 

Stocks, purchase and sale of State 105 

Stockholm, arch.T^ological congress at 221 

Stokes, Prof. G. G., inlluence of wind on sound 209 

Stone-age sculpture ^-W 

in New Jersey, by Dr. C. C. Abbott 246 

{Sec Ethnology.) 

Stone, Livingston, contributions from 47, ■^7 

Storms, periodicity of 1'5-J 

Story, William, presented ethnologica to East India Marine Society :}54 

Story, Jos., presented lance-heads 270, 27 1 

Stratton, Lorenzo, ethnological specimens from ~'7 

Strode, Stephen, ore from 87 

S. Mis. 115 27 



418 INDEX. 

Page. 

Suess, member of Imperial Academy 196 

Summerhayes, Lieutenant, U. S. A., scorpion from 87 

Surgeon-General, collections from 8[) 

Survey of the Colorado, collections from the 90 

Surveyor-General, collections from 89 

Surveys and explorations 51 

collections from 89 

Sutro, A., model of Sutro tunnel from 87 

Swan, J. G., collections from 87 

Haidab canoe from 69 

ou Haidah Indians 12 

collections from 48 

secured collections for Centennial display 67 

Sweden, exchange with government of 31 

Sweeney, R. O., alcoholic specimens from 87 

Swift, E. E., baleen of fin-back from 87 

Swiss geological commission 1G9 

society 1.02 

Switzerland, exchanges with government of 31 

Symbols for charts of pre-historic acbajology 224 

trenchant 224 

special 224 

universal 224 

mnemonic 224 

multipliable 224 

colors of 232 

alignment 227 

atelier 229 

avenues 227 

barrow 228 

bronze-age 231,232 

burials '-^31 

camp 225,228,229,230 

cavern 225,226,230,231 

cemeteries 228, 230 

cromlech 227 

defense 229 

digging 225 

discoveries 225,229 

dolmen 225,227,230 

enceinte of stones 227, 228, 229 

entrenchment 225 

fortifications 223 

fosse 229 

foundery 229 

grottoes 226,231 

habitation 229 

hearths 225 

iron age 231 , 232 

kjokkenmodding 229 

mardelle 223, 231 

menhir 225,227,230 

mine 225,230 

monolith 227 



INDEX. 419 

Symbols, ninnnmeiit 227 

niouiul 22^ 

n<!olitLic agf "J'-U/iiVJ 

oppidiini 2J."), 2'J"^, 2"29 

paleolit liic a|;e 2:51 '2!V2 

palafitto •2J',,2J9, 2:50, 2;;i 

pilt'-dwcllinj^ 22;"), 2'J<) 

pillar 22o 

pillar-stouc 227 

quarry 22."), 2::(i 

rampart 22'J 

remains, liuiiiati 22') 

ruiKi 227 

sepulture 22."), 228 

souterrahi 22(j, 2:10 

standiug-rock 225 

stations 22."), 22y 

subterraneous refui^e 22<) 

terramare 229, 2:;0 

tumulus 227, 22'^, 229 

Symonds, G. J., rain-fall in London VX) 

Tabev, Frank, bird's nests from 87 

Taft, Hon. A., ex-offi.cio member of the Institution 5 

Taxidermist, new buildinf? erected for 42, 109 

Tayler, R. W., m«mbi'.r of board in belialf of the Kxecutivt; Di'partments ')S 

Taylor, Lewis H., lishes from S7 

Taylor, Wm. B., on refraction of sound 205 

Tehnelcho Indians, weapons of the, Geor<fe C. Musters on the '>()3, 3()!J 

Tel(!<;raphic announcement of astronomical discoveries '.'6 

Temperature tables 23 

material employed in constrnctinjj; tli<! 21 

character and extent of work 24 

by Chas. A. Schott 12 

maxima and minima of 2ti 

oscillations of 2(iO 

of artesian wells of IVegny l.">5 

uuderyround 19:5 

by Chas. A. Schott IS 

results of Professor Everett's researches on IS 

Tennessee, antiquities of, publication on, deferred i:5 

purchase and sale of stocks of K'5 

Terrestrial physics, labors in, of Geneva Society 1'''7 

surfaces, diminution of, submersion of 2 45 

Thai in, researches of 1* 7 

Theophrastus 1 1'> 

Thomson, John II., collections from ^7 

Thomson, Sir \V., researches of !■*!, 1^2 

Thompson, Prof. A. II., explorations by ' -">•> 

Tlionq)son, John A., stone disks from '"7 

Thunder 1~^^ 

Throckmorton, S. R., fish from ^7 

Thunderbolt, effect of, by Genc-ral iJnfonr, de la llarpe on M7 

Thunder-storms, work on, eontcmiilated 20 

Tidal investigations on the part of the Coast Survey 13 



420 INDEX. 

Page. 

Tides, Professor Hilgard on 18 

Toner lectures, account of 14 

Transfer of meteorological system to Slgual-OEficc 19 

collections, (see Department of Agriculture, Army Museum, Cor- 
coran Art Gallery.) 

Transit of Venus 49 

Translations 18,142,151,198 

Transactions of the Society of Physics a,ud Natural History of Geneva 18, 151 

Treasury Department furnished revenue-cutters to Messrs. Schumacher and 

Swan 68 

True and Sutton, buffalo head frotn 87 

Trumbull, J. H., LL. D., examination by, of Indian vocabularies 19 

Tucson meteorite 51 

Tuue and Graham, fish-hawk from 87 

Turner, Lucien M., collections from 47, 87 

Turner, Miss J. A., clerk in charge of library 6 

Turner, Samuel, specimens from 87 

T weedale. Marquis of, prize offered by 198 

Twitchill, E. W., fossils from 87 

Tylor, Early History of Mankind 320 

Tyndall, investigations of, M. Marcet relative to 174 

Underground temperatures 18, 155, 193 

Underwood, William, & Sons, canned meats from 87 

University of Chili distributes exchanges 28,34 

United States of Colombia, exchanges with government of 31 

United States geological survey of the Territories, collections from 89 

Valenciennes, M 1.59 

Valli, Dr., experiments of 120 

Vance, Hon. Robert B., leaves of plants from 87 

Van Fleet, Walter, skin from 87 

Van Nostraud, J., stone implements from 87 

Vaucher, Professor, level of waters 1(38 

Vegetation, observations of, by Quetelet 165 

Velie, Dr. J. W., stuffed speci mens from 87 

Venetz, discoveries of 160 

Ventilation, warming and, by General Morin, translation of 18 

Venus, transit of 49 

Vermont State library, publications from 35 

Vertebrata. of the cretaceous formations of the West. E. D. Cope 52 

cold-blooded of North America, investigation of the 15 

Victoria, exchanges with government of 31 

Vircho w, member of archajological commission 221 

Virginia bonds., 11,103,104,105 

Vocabularies, Indian 18,55 

Vogel, labors of. Prof. A. Gautier relative to 173 

Vogt, Carl, Agiissiz associated with 160 

Volta, Alexander, biography and researches of 115, 119, 136, 155 

Voltaic pile 127, 131 

Von Schrotter, member of Imperial Academy 196 

Vouchers, examination of 110 

Vulcauicity, terrestrial 181 

Wade, Hon. B. F., filled vacancy in Board of Regents 7 

Waggaraan, J. II., duck from 87 

Waite, M. 11., Chief -Justice U. S., ex-officio member of the Institution 5 



INDEX. 421 

Page. 

"Wiiito.M.R., Chancellor of the Institution 99 

Walker, Mis. Dora II., fossils from 87 

Walker, Dr. R. L., collections from 87 

Wall, Dr., ^yorkof 120 

Wallace, Mr., on stone drilling 3'H) 

Wallace, Charles M., earth from 87 

Wallace, John, collections from 88 

War Department, collections from 7, 12, 89 

assistance rendered by G8 

Ward, L. F., botanical collections made by fjS 

Ward, Dr. John, presented stone axes 255, 257 

found polished ax in New Jersey 255 

Warming and ventilation, by General Morin, translation of 18 

AV'ashington City, purchase and sale of stocks of 105 

W-isps, American, monograph of, by Professor de Sanssure 13 

Wassou, John, collections from 88 

Water, diminution of, in rivers and streams 196 

causes of 202 

Watkins, L., & Co., agents 27 

Watson discovered asteroid :37 

Prof. Sereno, botanical index by 14 

Webb, J. G., shells from. 88 

Webber, Mrs. F. P., arrow-heads from 88 

Webber, Mrs. Mary C, fossils from 88 

Webster, Colonel , heron from 88 i 

Wrecks & Potter, ambergris from 88 

Wemey,D.P.,deerfrom 88 

Wells, S. H., potatoes from 88 

Welsher, H. W., fishes from 88 

Wendt, N. F., minerals from 88 

Wesche, Charles E., beetle from 88 

Wesley, William, agent of foreign exchanges 27 

Wesleyan University, collections from 72 

Wetherby, A. G., stone implements from 88 

Wex, Hofrath G., observations and deductions l)y ; objections to 196 

memoir of 196 

suggestions by 203 

Wheeler. Lieut. George M., explorations by 55 

collections from 49,88 

Whipple, Lieut. C. W., explorations by 5() 

White, Prof C. A^, explorations by 54 

collections from 88 

White, W. E., nests and eggs from 88 

Whiteaves, J. S., collections from 88 

Wiiitman, J. S., collections from 47 

Whitman, G. P., collections from 88 

Wliitney Arni()r3', arms from >iS 

Wi(!ks, Geo. T., fossil ore from 88 

Wiggans, John B., collections from 88 

Wilcke, researches of 117 

Wilde, Sir W. R., on arrow-heads 285.286 

Williams, Haven & Co., fur-seal skins from 88 

Williamson, lion. George, ethnological collection iV(»m 88 

Wilson, A. D., nest and eggs from 88 



422 INDEX. 

Page. 

Wilson, Rev. C. W., copper beads from jiS 

Wilson, Dr. Daniel, on antiquities 260, 316, 317, 337, :?72, 379, 3d0 

AVilsou, Hon. Henry, death of 7,99 

action of Board of Regents relative to 99 

eulogy on, by Hon. Peter Parker 100 

Wind, inequality of, eft'ect of, on sound 209,210,211 

Winds of the globe, by Prof. James H. Coffin 12, 20 

connection between, and pressure of the atmosphere 22 

method of reduction of 21 

Winnebagoes, remarkable stone at Hustisford, Wis 339 

Woeikof, Dr. Alex. J., on winds of the globe 12,23 

Wollaston, theory of contact 13.5 

Woltman, apparatus of 169 

Wood, Dr. Horatio C, study of the nature and mechanism of fever 14 

Woodforth, Philip R., specimens from 88 

Woodward's synoptical table 183 

Wooster, A. F., collections from 89 

Work done in connection with the National Museum 50 

Wright, J. W. A., fossil fish from 89 

Wiirtemberg, exchanges with government of 31 

Wurmbrand, Count G 221 

Wyman, Professor, on perforation of skulls 239 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, collections made by 68,89 

explorations by 56 

Yorkshire, geology of 175 

Young, Dr. Thomas 141 

Young, Clarence B., book-keeper 6 

Zamboni, Professor, apparatus of. 134 

Zoological Society of London, new marine animal from 89 

Ziirich, University of, publications from 35 






mpom 



WA"^i:^:-?To^ 



